Ilia. carnegie techIIMII TARTAIM
Volume 65 - Number 21Wednesday, March 23, 1966
New Director Has Plans
For WRCT Personality
Barry Cornett, semi-advanced sophomore, drama, 
is the new program director of Carnegie Techs WRCT.
A transfer student from Boston University where 
he majored in astronomy, Cornett plans to establish a station personality. _____
When you turn on the radio 
you will recognize the station you 
are listening to.
Already instituted in his new 
program is a satire series which 
will condemn various issues con
cerning Carnegie Tech.
Last week Relaxative, the sa
tire series, discussed the Tartan 
and next week Margaret Morrison 
will be the topic for condemnation.- 
Also, WRCT plans to bring Dr. 
Stever to the microphone. His 
first appearance will be sometime 
in April. Vice presidents and facul
ty will be heard on a program call
ed Counterpoint 66.
Broadcasting hours will be ex
tended so that both music and the 
new programs can be heard. Cor
nett hopes to exploit the fine arts 
departments. Among his ideas is 
a series of concerts by the music 
department and a weekly series 
given by the drama department, the 
first of which will be Three Sto
ries of Sholom Alechiem.,,
Publicity methods will be chan
ged. WRCT will move away from 
the leaflet into the realm of ex
travagance. However, he will not 
elaborate on what he means by 
extravagance/' says Cornett.
Another new sound that will soon 
be heard on WRCT is a weekly 
soap opera entitled Pregnant 
Pause.
One of the radio stations se
cret projects is to blow-up 
Scaife Hall and the box in which 
it came - Hunt Library. Of course 
this will be done by Cornetts 
outstanding use of wit.
Cornett will not only attempt to 
change the stations image but also 
its decorations.
Cornett ended his conversation 
by explaining that the motto of the 
new WRCT is information, en
tertainment and showmanship.
Tech Invites 
Pearl Buck 
To Assembly
Pearl S. Buck will speak 
at the March 29 student 
assembly, 11:30 a.m. inSkibo Ballroom.
Miss Buck is an American au
thor and novelist. She spent her 
childhood in China and later taught 
in several universities in China, 
having received her higher edu
cation in the United States.
Her works include articles, sto
ries, novels, childrens stories, 
non-fiction, and television plays. 
She received the. Noble Prize for 
Literature in 1932 for The Good 
Earth, a novel involving many of 
the details of Chinese society.
Miss Bucks other novels are 
written on American as well as 
Chinese oriented themes.
Students interested in attending 
a luncheon being given for the au
thoress should contact Dean Swank, 
BH150, before the Tuesday as
sembly.
Entries Sought 
For 3 Rivers 
Arts Festival
Photographers in the Pitts
burgh area are invited to parti
cipate in a juried photographic 
exhibition, part of the 7th An
nual Three Rivers Arts Festival 
of Carnegie Institute. The Festi
val will be held May 27 through 
June 5 and the photography show 
will occupy the lobby of Pitts
burghs Gateway Building IV.
Margaret Weiss, Photography 
Editor of the Saturday Review, 
will judge the photo section.
The exhibition will be open to 
all amateur and professional pho
tographers living within a 110- 
mile radius of Pittsburgh. There 
will be no restrictions on subject 
matter, interpretation or tech
nical limitations in the produc
tion of prints submitted. Mono
chrome or color prints will be ac
cepted.
Photographic entries will also be 
eligible for this years Festival 
Purchase Awards.
Entries must be postmarked no 
later than April 30 and sent on 
official entry forms, accompan
ied by an entry fee of $3. Further 
details and forms are available 
from the Three Rivers Arts Fes
tival, 1251 N. Negley Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, Pa., 15206.
The Festival will also feature 
exhibitions of work by area paint
ers, sculptors and craftsmen. Per
forming arts, including symphonic 
music, choral, operatic, band, folk 
song and jazz concerts, as well 
as marionette and drama per
formances, are scheduled for the 
early-Summer event.
The public will be welcome at 
all Festival exhibitions and pro
grams free of charge.
Better C-Book?
Alpha Phi Omega is currently 
embarking on a long range ef
fort to improve the 1966 C-Book 
and would appreciate assistance 
from the student body.
All those interested in helping 
should fill out the following form 
and send it to Campus Mail, Box 
282.
What do you think of this years C-Book?
Are you willing to pay more for a larger, more detailed
C-Book?
TGIF
Friday, March 25 
Ski bo 
4:30 to 6 p.m.
Weekend Features
Sing And Swing
Greek Sing and Swing, the annual gala weekend for Carnegie Techs 
sorority and fraternity members, will be held on April 1 and 2.
The weekend will focus on Sing, which will be held on Friday in Carnegie 
Music Hall. Trophies will be presented to the top three fraternities and so
rorities at Swing on Saturday evening.
____________________________________________________________ Each fraternity and sorority is
preparing two songs for the con
test.
The fraternity selections are: 
Alpha Tau Omega, TTie tra
velers, Kestner, and The Cos
sack, Koshetz (arr.); Beta Sig
ma Rho, Without a Song, Youmans, and Keep in the Middle of 
the Road, Barthlomew (arr.); Be
ta Theta Pi, The Drummer and 
the Cookie, Ehret (arr.X and 
Let Us Break Bread Together, 
Heath; Delta Upsilon, TheSweets 
of Laredo, Hunter (arr.), and 
Ezekial Saw de Wheel, Burleigh 
(arr.); Kappa Sigma, What Shall 
We Do with the Drunken Sailor, 
Shaw, and Do You Fear the Wind, 
Saterend.
Phi Kappa Theta will perform 
Almighty God of Our Fathers, 
James, and Brother Will, Broth
er John, Sacco; Pi Kappa Al
pha, Yesterday, Drake (arr.)^ 
and From Boston Harbor, Bar
tholomew; Sigma Alpha Epsilon - 
Didnt My Lord Deliver Dan
iel, traditional, and TTie Spring 
Hill Disaster, Seeger; Sigma Nu, 
Ave Maria, Vene, and TTie 
Horseman, Fitzgerald; Tau Del
ta Phi, Emitee Spritum Tumm, 
Davids, and Aint That Good 
News, Dawson; Theta Xi, A 
Lamb Goes Uncomplaining Forth. 
Wienhorst (arr.), and Soonah 
Will Be Done, Dawson.
The sorority selections are: Al
pha Epsilon Phi, I Heard a For
est Praying, DeRose, and Tlie 
Wonderful Way of Youth, Niles; 
Chi Omega, Spring, Bartk, and 
Ave Maria, Poulenc; Delta 
Gamma, Adoramus Te, Gasparini, and The Echo Song, di 
Lasso; Kappa Alpha Theta, Lasciatemi Morire, Monteverdi, and 
If You Dont Know Howto Dance, 
Sorozabal; Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
A Far Island, Roren, and A 
Flea and a Fly, Sister M. Elaine.
Greek Swing, will feature two 
dance bands  Nick Lomakin, and 
the Fenways  in the ballroom and 
the Wherrett room.
Tickets for the concert, in Car
negie Hall, will be made available 
to all Greeks.
Any questions concerning the 
weekend should be directed to one 
of the co-chairmen, Mary Volpe, 
682-8881, or Marion Bauman, 682- 
6505.
Peace Corps 
Directory Lists 
120 Programs
The Peace Corps has publish
ed a directory listing some 120 
training programs it is launch
ing this summer for 47 nations 
of Asia, Africa and Latin America*
Directed at the Class of 1966, 
the directory is being mailed to 
thousands of college seniors and 
graduate students across the Uni
ted States.
It marks several advances in 
Peace Corps planning. The first 
guide of its kind published by the 
Peace Corps, its contents repre
sent the largest number of train
ing programs and the largest num
ber of overseas job openings  
over 7,000  in the organizations 
five year history.
The directory contains descrip
tions of each program scheduled to 
the June, July, August training 
phase. TTie programs are listed 
by type and geographical region 
and are indexed by appropriate 
college major.
Copies can be obtained from 
the Division of Public Informa
tion, Peace Corps, Washington, 
D.C. 20525.
PiDe Members
Thistle Photo 
on the Senior Fence
Today at 4:15 p.m. 
Casual Dress
YesNo
Do you patronize the businesses advertising in the
C-Book?
YesNo
Do you know that the C-Book is another A Phi O service?
YesNo
List any information you would like to see in next years 
C-Book.____________________________________
We would greatly appreciate hearing anything else you would like to 
tell us concerning your feelings about the C-Book. Please feel free to 
include any suggestions you might have.
Tartan Seeks 
New Editors
The time is fast approaching 
when the present Tartan editorial 
staff must turn over leadership 
of the organization to a new group 
of staff editors. By the end of 
April, the new staff will be ac
tively engaged in publishing the 
weekly newspaper while the re
tiring members will step back to 
offer advice only if needed. 
Available positions are: 
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
Desk Editor 
News Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor 
Layout Editor 
Local Advertising Manager 
National Advertising Manager 
Secretarial Editor 
Circulation Manager 
Any person may apply for more 
than one position, and must ex
plain his interest in each area* 
Letters of application must in
clude the following:
1. positions) sought, state
ment of interests, plans and 
qualifications for each
2. previous experience or know
ledge concerning any facet of 
journalism or related fields
3. listing of other activities and 
positions held, both on and 
off campus
4. class, major, approximate 
cumulative grade point ave
rage, and factor achieved last 
semester.
All applications should be sent 
Evan M. Melhado, Editor-in-to
Chief, Carnegie Tech Tartan, Box 
C, Campus Mail, not later than 4:30 
p.m. on Wednesday, March 30, 
1966.
Tech Receives 
More Grants 
From NASA
Carnegie Tech has re
ceived a grant of $323,- 
000 from the National 
Aeronautics and Space Ad 
ministration for the train
ing of pre-doctoral stu
dents in space related sci
ences and technology.
The three-year program pro
vides training of fifteen gradu
ate students in nine departments 
of the College of Engineering and 
Science, and in three of Carne
gie Tech's interdisciplinary pro
grams, systems and communica
tions sciences, applied space sci
ences, and earth and astronomi
cal sciences.
The purpose of the training pro
gram is to increase the supply of 
highly trained scientists and en
gineers in space related sciences
and technology. The program pro
vides for stipends for the stu
dents and a grant to Carnegie 
Tech for the strengthening of pro
grams in these areas and to cov
er expenses involved in the pro
gram.
Since 1963, fifty-two students 
at Carnegie Tech have received 
aid under NASA program, anc' 
the University has received over 
$1,000,000 from NASA for their 
support.
Under the terms of the grant, 
approximately $150,000 will be 
used for stipends and $170,000 will 
be given to Carnegie Tech.
The fifteen new graduate traineeships received by the school 
was the maximum number given 
to any participating institution by 
NASA in this yt ?ars program.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 23, 1966
A man... 
a girl... 
captives in 
their own 
worlds... i 
finding 
escape 
in each 
other...
NO. OF SEATS.... AT J...........MAT. ? EVE. ? DATE REQUESTED................
PI* List 3 Alternat* Dates 1......................... 2.......................... 3.........................
Send Cheek or money order payable to SQ. HILL THEATRE. DZ21 
Enclose Stamped self-addressed envelope.
Tickets at all National Record Marts, Gimbels, Mellon Square; Hornes, 
Gateway Center; All Sears Roebuck stores or Manager At Any Stanley 
Warner Theatre.
^STANLEY WARNER^
plUSIlH NOW SHOWING
421-4909 1^5
------------------ 5824 Forward Ave., Pah., Pa.
METRO GOLDWYN MAYER ms 
THE PANDRO S BERMAN GUY GREEN PRODUCTION
IWcHplUSI
SIDNEY a SHELLEY POITIER ' WINTERS
ELIZABETH HARTMAN
IN PANAVISION'
5th WEEK
Matines Sat. And Sun.
FORVMfTTEmS^M
Swing)'summe*
TECHNICOLOR
VJJMHO
CRAFT AVENUE AT HAMLET STREET, PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213
2-GREAT HIT PLAYS-2
HAMLET THEATRE . . .
HELD OVER
EDWARD ALBEES
DIRECTED BY JOHN ULMER 
featuring 
SCOTTIE MacGREGOR 
 JAMES NOBLE ERIC TAVARES
SHARON SMITH
Presented with skill as to writing, 
direction and acting.
Kaspar Monahan, Press 
Hilarious, shocking . . . staged with 
consummate skill.
Win Fanning, Post-Gazette
CRAFT THEATRE .
Now thru April 10th 
GRAHAM GREENES
DIRECTED BY LEON B. STEVENS 
featuring
LYDIA BRUCE ?LEON SHAW
HARRIS YULIN TOM RUISINGER 
KATHERINE BRUCE JOHN HORN 
DORIS HACKNEY A. WILMURT 
MICHAEL BARIE
Shocking without raising its voice 
. . . witty without being over
whelming . . . raising fun on the 
triangular theme.
Howard Taukman, N. Y. Times
Performances Toes, thru Sat. at 1:30 P. M. Sunday at 7:30
* Student Rates: $1.50 (incl. tax) Sun. thru Fri., $2.00 Sat.
Call 621-4445 For Reservations
FOR CHILDREN EVERY SATURDAY & SUNDAY thru MARCH 27
* 'ROBINSON CRUSOE AllAn......... 1 " j j.p--..........p
Costumed Throngs Enjoy 
Evening Of Surprises
Seats now on sale at box office 
Regular Price - $4.50 - $4 - $3.50 - $2.50
SPECIAL STUDENT PRICE - $2
For any reserved seat in theatre on both Monday and Tuesday nights. 
Get tickets in advance at Penn Box Office-Show ID Card. Student tickets 
must be bought in advance.
. 111 ..............................................................................
OPF^ING MARCH 28 - TWO BIG WEEKS 
Mon. Thru Thurs., 8:30- Fri. 8i Sat. 2 Shows At 7 8* 9:45 iiiiiiinmiinniniiiiiai
Faces In The Crowd Tartan Photos by Gordon Morris
H. Guyford Stever, President of Carnegie Tech; Edward R, Shatz, vice presi= 
dent for academic affairs; Norman L. Rice, dean, College of Fine Arts; and W. 
Dwayne Young, chief of security police were among the 800 guests of Beaux 
Arts Ball 1966, held Friday, March 18.
Beginning at 9 p.m., the guests entered the porticos of the main lobby to tape 
music, while viewing costumes, pantomimes decorations, and fast action 
movies. The op and pop art decorations included collages, rasper plates, ta
pestries, kinetic sculptures, and flats. Balloons hung from the ceiling.
EDD BYRNESBetrC -ok?
UKCT ST AM-Tek CGItkFkCA MMM0UNI PICTURE
NOMINATED FOR 10 ACADEMY AWARDS
Including BEST PICTURE  BEST DIRECTOR  BEST SCREEN PLAY
METR0-G0LDWYN-MAYER PRESENTS A CARLO P0NTI PRODUCTION 
DAVID LEAN'S FILM OF BORIS PASTERNAKS
DOCTOR ZHilAGO
IN PANAVISION* AND METR0C0L0R 
tkCkthki CksTC -ol sT PonSoccrBk ot Pd Fsr?
EVES. Sun. thru Thurs..............................2.75
Fri. Sat. & Holidays.....................................$3.00
MATS. Wednesday.......................................$2.00
Sat. Sun. & Holidays...............................$2.50
EVES.: 1:00 P.M.-SUN. EVE. 7:30 P.M.-MATS. 2:00 P.M.
Fer Theatre Party Infermatien Call Gtrlrudt (vrley, Jf1-344
SEATS NOW
for Adults Only
STRIPPED FOR 
LAUGHTER
N.Y. Journal 
-American
, DIRECT FROM BWAY ,
baggy-pants comedians, strip-teasers' 
squealing chorines and allrANN CORIO
THIS WAS
SUgHBQUI
A Musical Satire
'LEAVE YOUR SOCIAL 
CONSCIENCE WITH THE 
TICKET TAKER AND 
ENJOY!"
N.Y. Her. Tribune
ON STAGE - IN PERSON
6th & PENN AVE.
The M.C., Jeff Chandler, dress
ed as Ed Wynn, welcomed the 
guests to Beaux Arts Ball and in
troduced Doug Clark and the Hot 
Nuts, who provided the dance music 
and entertainment for the affair.
At 10:30 p.m. Jeff introduced 
the judges for the masquerade 
promenade. The judges, faculty 
members and wives in Fine Arts, 
were Elke Kuhn, Nancy Pekruhn, 
Rail* Drury, Earl Gister, and Wes 
Mills. The masqueraders present
ed their costumes on stage, while 
classical music was heard in the 
background.
The promenade was terminat
ed by the appearance of Batman, 
who flew down a wire over the 
heads of the masqueraders from 
above the main office onto the 
stage. Batman was greeted by 
wild applause and the kisses of 
the go-go girls.
The Hot Nuts then continued per
forming, and guests were showered 
with balloons, computer card pun
ches, and popcorn after breaking 
the Pinata.Camp Act
The Beaux Arts Ball Review, 
entitled Super Camp gave exam
ples of camp in advertising and 
the theatre. The revue included 
the production number Hello Hel
lo when the IRT meets the BMT 
at 37th street and 7th Avenue, 
a rendition of the Mellon Bank 
credit card commercial, a num
ber from Scotch n Soda 1966, and 
a medley of camp show tunes.
Hundreds of meats, cheeses, 
bagels, peppers, and olives were 
consumed by the guests.
The costume awards, pots de
signed by Robert D. Schmitz of the 
sculpture department, were pre
sented in five categories.
Felicia Waynesboro and Ted 
Woods won for the best couple. 
Portraying Super Negroes, they
Continued on Page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 23, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
Colored Lights Focus On 
Sculptures And Structures
by Margaret Rubel
Abe Feder, who created the theatre lighting pro
fession, directed a lighting experiment March 13th in the Carnegie Tech gym.
Its purpose was to give Carnegie Tech architects, 
P&Ds, and drama students intensive knowledge on 
how to light the objects they design for use as well as works of art. ------------------------------------
third, Contrasts between stac
cato and slow.
The Happening concluded Fe
der* s three-day Dialogues in 
Lighting seminar at Carnegie 
Tech. Earlier in the week he 
gave several lectures and demon
strations and an outdoor lighting 
exhibition. Working with drama 
students he directed the light
ing of The Hunt Library steam 
vent, the Fine Arts Building, and 
the Pitt Cathedral of Learning.
Lighting Effects
Tartan Photos by Fred Maize
According to Feder, Every
thing we see, we see only in 
light, and the kind of light we use 
to reveal our environment and 
the objects we place in it, strong
ly affects our reactions to what 
we see. Therefore, everyone in
volved in organizing our environ
ment for us, must learn something 
about the use of lighting design."
The light happening was a semi
nar starting at dusk, and as it 
stretched into the night, students 
were beginning to wonder when it 
would end. A P&D commented, 
All I know is that his last one 
lasted until 6 in the morning.*
Each sets production was 
scheduled to last a half hour. 
While the backdrops were being 
placed, Feder told anecdotes about 
Camelot and My Fair Ladys 
lighting, which he directed.
The first experiment involved 
lighting both sides of a screen 
formation of cement blocks, a 
futuristic design done by the ar
chitects. Soon after it was put up, 
the arrangement was taken apart 
and each block carted away to make 
room for the next set.
A chain of red and white metal 
triangles hanging from ropes was 
flung into a twisting motion for the 
second experiment. Green lights 
were cast onto this machinery, 
extending a terrifying effect to the 
audience.
A pair of sails, striped black 
and white, swung back and forth 
in opposite directions with a white 
light of varying degrees of bright
ness shining through them. Sha
dows of the stripes moved back 
and forth across the floor.
To improvised percussion pro
duced by home-made wooden, tin, 
and wire, instruments, dancers 
moved under the lights in the fourth 
experiment. The five black-leotarded expressionists manipulating 
white shields which reflected the 
light were received enthusiasti
cally by their audience. The cho
reographer, Barbara Decker's di
rections consisted of telling the 
dancers only the theme of the 
movement. In the first dance Bar
bara asked the slow and round/' 
in the second, staccato, in the
Opera Enacts 
French Revolt
Pittsburgh Opera will close its 
1965-66 season of grand opera at 
Syria Mosque on March 24 and 26 
with Giordanos opera of the 
French Revolution, Andrea Chenier.
Metropolitan Opera stars Rich
ard Tucker and Mary Curtis - 
Verna will sing the lead roles. 
Supporting artists will include 
Chester Ludgin, Beatrice Kreps, 
Rita di Carlo, Lawrence David
son, Luigi Vellucci, Norman Rig
gins, William Beck and Robert 
Falk.
Dr. Richard Karp will conduct 
the Pittsburgh Symphony.
Tickets are available at Gimbels, Hornes, the University Book 
Center, and the Pittsburgh Opera 
office. Phone reservations are 
being taken at (412) 261-5294.
Violinist To Play 
Beethoven Piece
Zino Francescatti, reknowned 
violinist, will join Dr. William 
Steinberg and the Pittsburgh Or
chestra in the third of four con
certs of the Beethoven Cycle, 
Friday evening and Sunday af
ternoon, March 25 and 27 at Syria 
Mosque.
Francescatti will perform the 
Violin Concerto in D Major, Opus 
61. The program will also in
clude: Overture to  King Stephen 
and Symphony No. 4 in B-flat 
Major.
This will be Francescattis ele
venth appearance with the Pitts
burgh Symphony.
PlayhouseHas 
New Program
The three theaters of the Pitts
burgh Playhouse will provide a 
new form of entertainment on 
March 26 with the advent of a new 
program in the Theatre Upstairs.
Mark Lewis, associate general 
manager and head of the Playhouse 
School of the Theater has announ
ced that The Playhouse Actors 
Lab, an organization of local ac
tors who have been in training 
under the auspices of the school 
since the spring of 1964, will pre
sent their first production Ca
reer a comedy by James Lee.
According to Lewis, The Ac
tors Lab program is designed to 
provide the experienced actors 
in the community with an oppor
tunity to participate in study ses
sions and projects which will aid 
in their artistic development as 
actors and to produce a series of 
special plays.
Classroom theory consists of 
such subjects as, voice and 
speech, character study and de
velopment, language of Shakes
peare, the Stanislavsky method 
acting in the epic theatre, and 
make-up. <
The Actors Lab, made up of 
some sixty local actors, is being 
taught by the faculty of the Play
house School and guest instruc
tors.
Also according to Lewis, The 
Actors Lab will supplement the 
offerings of the Professional pro
grams in the Hamlet and Craft 
Theaters by presenting experi
mental plays, avantgarde theatre 
and original plays.
Edward Albees comedy drama, 
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
enters its sixth sold out week in 
the Hamlet Theatre and the Craft 
Avenue Theatre is presenting Gra
ham Greenes comedy, The Com
plaisant Lover.
Tickets for all three produc
tions may be obtained from The 
Playhouse at 621-4445 or Craft 
Avenue at Hamlet Street, Pitts
burgh, Pa., 15213.
Special student rates are: $1.50 
weekdays and Sunday, and $2 on 
Saturday.
THISTLEGETCHA
WHO'S art PETE'S PIZZERIA
with aay4:a Ia11:
SPECIAL 
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG
5ikhsCTsTr-p. Ptr??rs-T. CTG--r-p.m
(CROWTHER, N.Y. TIMES)
"A MASTERPIECE!
NAME DESMARAIS EUROFILM, LTO. -ALTON COOK, N.Y. WORLD TELEGRAM
I0A KAMINSKA m JOSEF KRONER 
v JAN KADAR mt ELMAR KLOS 
t THE BARRANDOV FILM STUDIOS 
no it PROMINENT FILMS
STARTS FRIDAY
Sound Offby Howard Lasnik
The Spy Who Came In
The Spy who Came In From The 
Cold, an espionage movie sans 
glamor, is very successful as an 
antidote to the current rash of 
James Bond type movies. Con
sistently low-keyed, Spy demon
strates that suspense and interest 
can be maintained without the stan
dard formula of gadgets gimmicks, 
and girls; mundane Volkswagens 
rather than super-Aston Martins 
set the pace.
The plot, an excellent one, is 
complex but unconfused, high
lighting at every turn the un
certainties of the cold-war. Alec 
Leamas, competently portray
ed by Richard Burton, is a spy 
with duties to perform. Morali
ty is never his concern - he calls 
himself a technician. But Lea
mas discovers that he is just a 
pawn in a game bearing more si
milarity to chess than to cowboys 
and Indians.
It is never quite certain who 
the enemy is, and the enemy can
not be destroyed in a straight
forward manner, anyway, for this 
would start a war. Leamass 
world is much like our own - 
there is no place in it for a Ja
mes Bond.
Leamass task in the movie is
an unpleasant one. He is to feign 
disgust with his job, go on the 
skids, and pretend to sell out to 
the Communists. In the early sta
ges of this procedure he meets 
Claire Bloom, a wistful, little 
English librarian, and a member of 
the Communist Party. But the 
meeting probably was not by 
chance, as she, too, becomes the 
tool of Control.
Leamass ultimate goal is nei
ther the stealing of secrets nor 
actual sabotage, but merely to 
plant incriminating evidence in 
order that the Communists will 
liquidate one of their own men. 
In the fulfillment of his mission, 
Leamass discovers that the amorality of the cold-war exceeds 
even his own.
The photography is good, though 
at times the camera angles ex
clude rather than include the view
er. The music composed by Sol 
Kaplan, on the other hand, is 
invariably appropriate, melancho
ly at the beginning and gradually 
adding sinister overtones.
Director Martin Ritt, handling 
his professional cast in a profes
sional fashion succeeds in The 
Spy Who Came In From the Cold 
in displaying the full and banal 
in an engrossing manner.
COLUfVlBlA PICTURES oresentsMARLON BRANDOSAMSP/EGELS
ON STAGE - IN PERSON SAT. NIGHT, MARCH 26 - 8 = 30
PENN THEATRE
6TH & PENN AVE., DOWNTOWN 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW $2.50 , 3.00, 3.50, 4.00
Horne's, Gimbels, and all Nat. Record Marts. Moil Orders to Theatre

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 23, 1966
Editorial
Improper Constitution
Carnegie Tech students will undboutedly remember the controversy at 
the beginning of this academic year centering,around the revised con
stitution for the Student Government which was prepared by the chairman 
of Student Congress. After weeks of debate the revised document was 
defeated, and to the Constitution Committee of Student Congress was 
assigned the responsibility of preparing an entirely new constitution for 
the Student Government.
The committee recognized two major problems with the current 
government, specifically, that there is no campus-wide interest in and 
concern for the Student Government, and that its structure confuses 
executive and legistive functions, making the delineation of leadership 
responsibilities unclear, a fact which has sevely hindered the proper 
functioning of the government. Working under a philosophy designed to 
ameliorate these problems, the Constitution Committee is preparing, and 
in fact has almost completed, a new constitutional framework for govern
ment.
At the meeting yesterday of the Congress, however, the chairman of 
that body distributed two articles of a constitution and a code of election 
procedures, all of which he wrote himself, and which he claimed were 
based on the efforts of the Constitution Committee. A motion was made 
following his presentation of thesto adopt them as amendments in place 
of Articles 1 and 11 of the present constitution.
The Chairman of Student Congress engineered this entire scheme 
without the knowledge and consentof the Constitution Committee, rewrote 
major portions of the document which that committee is now finishing to 
suit his own personal preferences, which In most cases are not in con
formity with the philosophy of the committee, and finally, had the audacity 
and temerity to present these items under the label amendments,* all 
with the claim that the Constitution Committee would not finish its work 
in time for government elections, which occur at the end of May.
This lame excuse is false; the chairman cf the Constitution Committee 
has asserted that his group will have fulfilled its task with sufficient 
time to effect ratification prior to the elections. Ratification, moreover, 
is another important factor. The chairman of Congress is attempting to 
alter radically and drastically the organization of the Student Govern
ment by avoiding the need to obtain ratification by the administration, 
and ratification by referendum ballot of the student body, under the 
guise of the term amendments.*
Finally, the chairmans blatant disregard for the spirit of the philo
sophy of the Constitution Committee can be indicative only of his dis
regard for the future strength, stability, and welfare of the Student 
Government. To cite a few examples, the Constitution Committee has 
arranged to keep the election of executive officers entirely segregated 
from the legislature. The Congress Chairmans version requires the 
Congress to nominate candidates. Moreover, the Chairmans version 
requires the Congress to elect the treasurer of Student Government, an 
executive official. In an effort to generate more widespread interest 
in the government , the Constitution Committee has arranged for a 
President of the Student Body, to be elected at large by the student 
body. Any number of candidates, who have met a few requirements 
with minimal restrictions, may run for this office and for that of Vice 
President. The Congress Chairmans version requires to nominate the 
candidates, and limit their number to two. There are many other gross 
departures from the Constitution Committee philosophy, too numerous 
and too extensive to elucidate here.
The entire affair resembles all to closely the Congress Chairmans 
attempt last September to railroad through the Congress a constitution 
of his own design. That document was defeated because it was not in 
the best interest of the government to adopt. Such is true of the current 
proposal by the chairman, and should also be defeated.
These actions on the Chairmans part simply cannot be tolerated. Tbe 
chairman and members of the Constitution Comittee refuse to endorse 
the Congress Chairmans documents. The Tartan urges the rest of the 
Congress to follow suit, and to demand of the Chairman that he deal 
with this matter according to the proper procedures:
The Constitution Committee must be given its rightful opportunity 
to present to the administration, the Student Government, and the 
student body the document which it was assigned to prepare by the 
Congress Chairman himself. It must be examined by the adminis
tration, discussed and appropriately amended if necessary in the Exe
cutive Council and on the floor of Congress, and discussed in light 
of the philosophy in conformity to which it was written, not in the 
seclusion of the Congress Chairmans office. Finally, it must be sub
mitted to the student body for its approval by referendum ballot. This 
is the appropriate, democratic, and most importantly, the only legi
timate procedure.
History Fellowship Offers 
Paid Year Of Academics
Carnegie Techs Department of History is one of 
only four in the country which have been selected 
under the 1965 Higher Education Act, to offer fel
lowships for experienced secondary school history 
teachers this fall. The 15 Carnegie Tech fellowships 
will enable recipients to complete requirements for a 
subject-matter masters degree in history.
From The Middle Of The Bus
By Michael Malakoff
Summer Ends
The summer will soon be over. In a week Ill be leaving Newton, Missi
ssippi. Newton is no longer just a name on a map. Over the past two 
months, it has developed into a new home for me.
The summer certainly has offered many rewarding experiences. 
My work here - as I think back - centered around four areas.
Voter Registration: This is the primary work of summer volunteers. 
In Newton we had teams which went door to door discussing the ad
vantages of voting and explained the new voting forms. Because many 
people could not read or write, we tried to teach them to write their 
names, birthdate, residence and the words yes or no.
Freedom Schools: About 30 or 40 children attended the daily class. 
The singing games and discussions involved were often the only times 
Negro children were asked to think and to express themselves. The 
school session like all civil rights activities was ended with the song, 
We Shall Overcome.
School Desegregation: This involved getting local citizens to endorse 
a letter to Mr. Seeley of the U.S. Dept, of Education. The letter stated 
basically that we, the citizens of Newton County, feel that the segre
gated schools in Newton are unequal and we wish the county to dese
gregate at once.
Even harder than getting signatures was getting two or more families 
to try to register their children in white schools so that a federal court 
suit could be brought against the county. The peoples homes, families 
and jobs were threatened if they tried to register their children. 
As a result we could get only one family.
The court suit will have to wait until next year.
Job Opportunity: As provided or by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 all 
factories employirig over 100 people (as of 1967, it will be 25 people) 
cannot legally discriminate in their hiring practices. Job Opportunity 
consisted of talking to plant and personnel managers, and with local 
citizens encouraging them to apply.
Beside Mississippi there are other states Lousiana, Alabama, 
Georgia and Arkansas  that are at unrest. There are six million 
people at unrest because they are humiliated, intimidated, threatened 
and beaten up. They might be quiet for one day or even five days as in 
Newton but until the fall of segregation, until Americans are allowed to 
live as Americans there will be unrest.
I have been on the bus for 24 hours. In four hours, I will be home. 
It will be nice to look at white men again and not see hate in their eyes. 
It will be nice to walk down the street without being spit at or called 
names, without the fear of being hit by those people of your own race. 
It is hard to describe the fear that constantly accompanies one when he 
i knows he has no recourse for any injustice done him.
Six million people were born in this system: must live in fear of 
this system and die in it in this land of so-called opportunity. How many 
more laws, more court suits, more beatings and killings will it take 
before the southern white man realizes slavery has ended?
Will another generation of Negroes have to live and die? We, as Ameri
cans should see that this is not the case. It is our responsibility and duty 
that this injustice end now.
Whats Doing 
On Campus?
by Tina Enteil
The U. S. Office of Education 
has given the school a grant of 
approximately $110,000 to support 
the fellowships.
The fellowships will be for one 
academic year  September, 1966 
to June, 1967  and will carry a 
stipend of $4000, plus a dependent 
allowance. No tuition will be char
ged, Application deadline is April
5.
Richard B. Ford, a member of 
Carnegie Techs history faculty, 
is director of the program.
The fellowship program will in
tegrate the study of content with 
an examination of materials and 
teaching strategies. One of the
subject courses will compare the 
American and French revolutions; 
another will examine the fine arts 
in their cultural settings in seve
ral societies. Other courses will 
each deal exclusively with Ame
rican, European, and non-western 
history.
Classroom Applications 
In addition, there will be two 
special courses designed to help 
participants to relate their know
ledge of subject matter to the needs 
of the secondary school class
rooms.
These are: a one - semester 
Continued on Page 5
Today
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass, Skibo room 39.
5 p.m. Sorority Meetings, Skibo 
rooms 39-46.
6 p.m. Scotch n' Soda, Skibo 
Highlander Room.
7 to 8:30 p.m. Guitar Class, Ski
bo room 56.
7:30 p.m. Explorers Club Meet
ing, PH 100.
8 p.m. Oratory, Skibo room 40.
8 p.m. Tech Dames, Skibo room
55.
Thursday
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass, Ski
bo room 39.
4:30, 7, and 9:30 p.m. Film Arts, 
Forbidden Games, PH 100.
4:30 p.m. Pipe Corps, Skibo room 
200.
6 p.m. Scotch n Soda, Skibo 
Highlander Room.
7 to 9 p.m. APhiO Meeting, Ski
bo room 40.
8 p.m. Viet Wives Club, Skibo 
room 45.
8 p.m. Oratory, Skibo room 46.
Friday
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass, Ski
bo room 39.
6 p.m. Scotch n Soda, Skibo, 
Ballroom.
7 p.m. Tech Christian Fellow
ship, Skibo room 39.
7:30 and 10 p.m. Y-Cine Ser
ies: David and Lisa, also 
Sea Horse, Porter Hall 100, 
Y-members: $2.50, non-mem
bers $.50.
8:30 to midnight Tech Record 
Dance. Skibo cafeteria.
9 p.m. Ceilidh, Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
Saturday
9:30 to 1:30 p.m. Horn Club, Ski
bo room 40.
10 to 2 p.m. Folk Institute, Skibo 
Wherrett Room.
12:30 p.m. SCOPP, Skibo room 
55.
Sunday
9 and noon, Mass, Skibo, Wherrett 
Room.
1 p.m. Scotch n Soda, Skibo 
Room 54.
1 p.m. SCOPP, Skibo, Room 55.
7:30 to 10 p.m. Chess Club, Ski
bo room 40.
Monday
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass, Ski
bo, Room 39.
4:30 and 6 p.m. Dance Workshop, 
Skibo Ballroom.
6 p.m. Scotch n Soda, Skibo 
Highlander Room.
7 p.m. Mens Dorm Council, Ski
bo Wherrett Room.
Tuesday
11:30 a.m. Assembly
4:30 p.m. Student Congress, Skibo, 
Wherrett Room.
4:30 to 5:45 p.m. Lecture on Phi
losophy of Paul Tillich, taught 
by Dr. Richard Rubenstein, Ski
bo room 45.
4:30 p.m. Christian Science Orga
nization, Skibo room 39.
6 pm. Scotch n Soda, Skibo 
Ballroom.
Readers Write
Mississippian Is 
Aware But Angry
Editor, the Tartan:
I am a Mississippian. Jackson 
is my home. Like any thinking 
Mississippian, I am well aware 
of the social and economic pro
blems of my state. I am aware of 
those who create these problems 
and those who strive for their 
solutions.
And now, through his column 
appearing in the Tartan, I am 
aware of Michael Malakoff.
I have not commented publicly, 
until now, because I do not consi
der myself well versed enough 
on the subject of Mississippi to set 
myself up to this student body as 
a self proclaimed expert. Unfortu
nately, Mr. Malakoff has shown no 
such compunction. For this reason, 
I am now forced to comment.
Mr. Malakoff shows frightening
ly little understanding of, or feel
ing for the problems that face 
Mississippi. This, though inex
cusable in one who considers him
self so erudite, is both common 
and explainable in the summer 
workers. Too many of the sum
mer project workers were just 
bored college students looking for 
kicks. Others were well-meaning 
but ill-informed and ill-directed.
They hop on a bus and ride to 
Jackson for the big adventure. 
While in Mississippi, they conduct 
themselves with the air of the cho
sen ones. They see only one side 
of the problem and spend only a 
very few months in the state. 
After three months of jolly ad
venture, they return to their re
spective campuses, returning heros, spewing forth article after ar
ticle with the self assurance of one 
who has been there.
To be sure, Mister Malakoff 
has been there. He has sweat
ed, carried signs, been to jail, 
and e\~n had his arm squeezed 
by a policeman. He has had his 
summer adventure, but what has 
been accomplished?
There are many native Mississippians who hold the same ideals 
that Michael Malakoff professes. 
These are the people who can and 
have been causing the real lasting 
social changes. They cant run 
home at the end of the summer, 
because they are already home.
Continued on Page 5
Cost Of Ed Rises 
More Than Index
by Dave Francis
Statistics were taken from 
USDL, Monthly Bulletin, Con
sumer Good Price Index.
Cost of a Carnegie Tech edu
cation (room, board, and tuition) 
will be 55% higher next fall than 
it was just five years ago. The 
student cost of living (room and 
board for men) alone has risen 
35% according to figures from 
George Tipker, Head of Housing.
Housing costs are a big con
tributor to the increase. The 
yearly cost of a doubl room for 
men will be $200 above the 1960- 
61 price next year. This is a 9.8% 
increase per year. Tuition has 
risen at a similar pace, from 
$1000 five years ago to $1700 next 
year. Board has held relatively 
stable averaging only a 2% per year 
increase.
The United States Consumer 
Price Index has risen at the ave
rage rate of approximately 1.1% 
per year since 1957.
7 p.m. Scuba course taught at 
Tech pool, substitute session 
for March 25.
7 to 10 p.m. American Society of 
Technical Writers, Skibo room 
55.
7:30 to 11 p.m. Explorers Club, 
Skibo room 54.
8 to 11 p.m. Folk Dance Club, 
Skibo Wherrett Room.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 23, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page
Troika By John Day
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Notes On Oakland
"Oakland: When you get there, there is no there there.
The beautifully rhythmic statement above was written by Gertrude 
Stein. We dont know which Oakland she was talking about, but we do 
know that many Carnegie Tech students feel that way about Pittsburghs 
Oakland. We couldn't disagree more.
It is sad enough to see Pittsburgh business and government interests 
ignoring the real potentials of Mt. Washington, the rivers, the Golden 
Triangle, and Oakland; but it is sadder still to find most Carnegie 
Tech students turning their backs to Oakland as they are lured up 
Fifth Avenue by the commercial tinsel of Shadyside. Oakland has much 
more to offer and yet the corner of Forbes and Craig seems to be the 
furthest limit of Carnegie Tech pleasure seekers.
Another disturbing fact is that most students who live off campus 
rent apartments in Squirrel Hill or preferably in Shadyside. If out on the 
town, Carnegie Tech students most often head to Shadyside. One reason 
for this is that Shadyside is oriented to the student class and higher 
income groups.
This results in a lack of diversity with the accompanying prolife
ration of specialty shops. This tends to inflate apartment rents and 
prices in general. As a result Shadyside is often referred to as Phoneyside.
One has only to compare this to Oakland where one can still go to 
any number of bars, two theaters featuring first rate films, and a 
night club with a good rock and roll band and stripper. At the same 
time one meets all strata of society in the bars, sandwich shoppes 
and stores.
Besides the general Carnegie Tech student disinterest, Oakland 
is being threatened by two imposing powers: Pitt and the Urban Re
newal Authority. Pitt is trying to turn Oakland into a great institution
al desert as it gobbles up parcels of land here and there replacing the 
existing structures with monsters that destroy the scale of the area. 
The Authority is also trying to get its hands on Oakland, but at one 
public hearing the Oaklanders repulsed their first attempt. U.R.A. of
ficials offered as evidence Oaklands deteriorating condition, but they are 
also eyeing Squirrel Hill and Shadyside for the same reason.
This seems a poor excuse to bring in the Federal Bulldozer as 
anyone who takes the time to look can see that Oakland is undergoing 
a major resurgence. Witness a new theater, nursing home and the clean
up campaigns in such areas as Dawson Street east.
It seems strange to us that Carnegie Tech students who have a defi
nite physical link to Oakland ignore it. This area offers much in the way 
of different samplings of life, which to our eyes students especially 
should be aware of.
This Week In Pittsburgh
___________________________by Ken Lutz __________________________
Computer Pioneer Named 
Mellon Prof. In His Field
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, who in the past decade has 
pioneered in the use of the computer for the simula
tion of human thought processes, has been named 
the first Richard King Mellon Professor of Computer 
Science and Psychology at Carnegie Tech.
The distinguished professorship was established 
last May as part of a $5,000,000 gift to Carnegie 
Tech, from General and Mrs. Richard K. Mellon.
Exhibits
Recent work of Howard Baer. 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 
N. Negley Ave.
Prints, drawings, and watercolors by George Nama. Arts 
and Crafts Center, Fifth and 
Shady Aves.
Arts and Treasures of Nineteen 
Nationality Groups. Henry 
Clay Frick Fine Arts Build
ing, Schenley Plaza.
Paintings by Ralph Carr. Visual 
Arts Gallery, 5746 Ellsworth 
Ave.
Paintings and drawings by Sylvia 
Baum. Regent House, 7604 
Forbes Ave.
Woodcuts by Naoko Matsubara. 
Pitt Book Center, 4000 Fifth 
Ave.
Ancient Art from Greece and 
Rome. Kaufmanns Depart
ment Store, Downtown.
Cartoons by West Penn Car
toonists Assn., Ivy School of 
Professional Art, 207 Mar
ket St.
Excavations of Bethel, Israel. 
Carnegie Institute Museum of 
Art, 4400 Forbes Ave.
Drama and Music
?Whos Afraid of Virginia 
Woolf? and The Com
plaisant Lover, nightly ex
cept Monday. Pittsburgh Play
house, Craft Ave. at Hamlet 
St. Student tickets for all per
formances.
Carnegie Tech Faculty Concert. 
Theo Salzman, cello, Harry 
Franklin, piano. Carnegie
Lecture Hall, tonight at 8:30 
p.m.
?Pittsburgh Opera, Andrea 
Chenier with Richard Tuck
er, Mary Curtis - Vernar, 
Ruth Carron, and Chester 
Ludgin. Syria Mosque. March 
24 at 8:15 p,m., March 26 at 
8:15 p.m.
University of Pittsburgh: An
tioch String Quartet, March 24 
at 8:15 p.m. Student Union
?Music Guild: West Point Glee 
Club. Carnegie Music Hall. 
March 25 at 8:30 p.m.
?Pittsburgh Symphony, William
Steinberg, Conductor. Third 
Beethoven Cycle. Zino Fran
cescatti, violinist. Syria Mos
que. March 25 at 8:45 p.m., 
March 27 at 3:10 p.m.
Carnegie Tech: College - Com
munity Orchestra, Maurice 
Laney, Conductor, Samuel 
Thaviu, Guest conductor. Car
negie Music Hall, March 26 at 
8:30 p.m.
Organ Recital: Paul Koch, guest 
artist: Jeanne Klatte, Soprano. 
Carnegie Hall, Northside. 
March 27 at 3 p.m.
Organ Recital: Clyde English, 
from W.V.U. Carnegie Music 
Hall, Oakland, March 27 at
3 p.m.
?Music Guild: Ballet Theatre. 
Syria Mosque. March 29 at 
8:30 p.m.
Sports
?Professional Hockey. Pitts
burghs Hornets vs. Cleveland 
Barons. Tonight at 8 p.m. Hor
nets vs. Baltimore Clippers, 
March 27 at 2:30 p.m. Civic 
Arena.
* Admission charged
Griffiths Selected 
As Sloan Fellow
Dr. Robert B. Griffiths, assis
tant professor of physics at Car
negie Tech, has been selected as 
an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fel
low.
The award carries with it an 
unrestricted grant for two years 
of fundamental research and be
comes effective in September. Re
cipients of the grants were chosen 
from the faculties of 49 colleges 
and universities in the United Sta
tes and Canada.
Dr. Griffiths joined the Carne
gie Tech faculty in 1964, after hav
ing served as a research associate 
at the University of California, 
Lajolla. He received his bache
lors degree from Princeton, and 
his masters and doctorate from 
Stanford.
At that time, General and Mrs. 
Mellon expressed the hope that the 
gift, which enabled Carnegie Tech 
to establish a new department of 
computer and information sciences 
in the College of Engineering and 
Science, would provide the basis 
for an expanded program leading 
to the practical and intellectual 
preeminence of Carnegie Tech in 
computer and information sci
ences.
General Mellon described Dr. 
Simons appointment as an ex
cellent first step in attaining the 
goals set forth when the new de
partment was established.
Dr. Simon who is currently as
sociate dean of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra
tion at Carnegie Tech will contin
ue in this role while holding the 
R.K. Mellon Professorship. He has 
been at Carnegie Tech since 1949 
and previously on the faculty of 
Illinois Institute of Technology for 
seven years.
His diverse background includ
es teaching and consulting in the 
fields of administration, political 
science, economics, and psycholo
gy, and he has served as Asso
ciate Editor of such professional 
publications as Sociometry, Econometrica, American Political 
Science Review, and Behavioral 
Science.
Human Thought Process
Dr. Simon has been a mem
ber of a faculty group at Carne
gie Tech engaged in research in 
computer simulation of human 
thought processes, a method that 
has been referred to as one of the 
great advances in psychology of 
the twentieth century. The Carne
gie Tech research group has 
developed computer programs si
mulating the processes employ
ed by humans solving such pro
blems as discovering a proof of a 
mathematical theorem, selecting 
a move in chess, balancing a 
factory assembly line, and select
ing stocks and bonds for an invest
ment portfolio.
A major aim of the research, 
said Dr. Simon, is to deepen our 
understanding of human understan
ding with a view ultimately to 
achieving more effective teach
ing and learning methods in 
schools, and better decision - 
making methods in business and 
governmental organizations.
Veterans Eligible 
For Financial Aid
Recently President Johnson 
signed into law the Veterans Re
adjustment Act of 1966:
Any veteran who has served 
continuously on active duty for 
a period of at least 181 days 
since January 31, 1955, may 
be considered eligible for fi
nancial assistance toward his 
education.
The Veterans Administration 
has asked Carnegie Tech to survey 
the number of full-time students 
who may qualify so that they can 
provide staff and facilities in anti
cipation of next years activity.
Qualified men should contact the 
Office of the Dean of Men no later 
than Friday, March 25.
Evening students have received a 
questionnaire from the Office of 
Evening Classes and are urged to 
complete it Immediately.
Distinguished Background
In 1964 - 65, Dr. Simon was a 
National Lecturer for the Asso
ciation for Computing Machinery 
and in 1964 served in the same 
capacity for Sigma Xi. In 1960, 
he served as Ford Distinguished 
Visiting Professor at New York 
University, in 1961 he was the 
Vanuxem Lecturer at Princeton 
University, and in 1963 was the 
William James Lecturer in Psy
chology at Harvard University. He 
received his graduate and under
graduate degrees from the Uni
versity of Chicago and in the past 
three years has received honorary 
degrees from Yale University, 
Case Institute of Technology, and 
the University of Chicago.
Future Projects
The endowed professorship is 
one of four major activities to be 
carried out in the new department 
in the near future. The others, 
all part of the $5 million gift 
from General and Mrs. Mellon, 
are construction of a $2 million 
building to serve as the focal point 
of research and education in com
puter and information sciences; 
expenditure of $1,250,000 over a 
five year period for research in 
computer development and appli
cations; and $1 million towards 
the purchase of a new computer.
Selective Service
Carnegie Tech has extended an 
invitation to the State Selective 
Service officers to visit the cam
pus on Thursday afternoon, March 
31. They will discuss the new pro
visions of the Selective Service 
Act and the effect of the Selec
tive Service Qualification Test with 
interested students.
Colonel Grimm, manpower di
rector of Pennsylvania, and Colo
nel Hetzel, State Selective Ser
vice official, will answer any ques
tions involving selective service.
Readers WriU
M ississippian
Continued from Page 4
It is the people like Malakoff wh< 
make things difficult for thes< 
real social reformers.
The summer workers left th< 
state more strife-torn than befor 
they arrived, causing more harn 
than good. They have set back thi 
real workers several years by re 
jelling the once slowly crumbling 
opposition. They have accomplish
ed some of their short term goals 
but at the expense of the hard woi 
long term accomplishments o: 
others.
I must give Malakoff credit foi 
one thing  he has managed ti 
stretch a lot of columns out of hi* 
experience.
Richard Mitchel 
Senior, M.E
Fellowship
Continued from Page 4 
course in cognitive processes, ant 
a year - long seminar which wil 
study the teaching methods ant 
materials developed in the mort 
than 40 social studies curriculumprojects throughout the nation.
During the second semester oi 
this seminar, each participant wil] 
develop a course of study or a set 
of materials for use when he re
turns to his own school. No the
ses, language examination, oi 
comprehensive examination wil] 
be required.
On-Campus Resources 
Besides the formal courses,  
number of related activities ant 
facilities will be available to th( 
participants. These include: a lec
ture series which will bring tc 
the campus the directors of eight 
major social studies curriculumresearch centers; a library of over 
2000 recently - published volumes 
of pertinent materials; an exten
sive collection of audio-visual 
aids; TV kinescopes; and an op
portunity to observe and even teach 
demonstration classes in several 
Pittsburgh secondary schools.
Also on the campus during the 
fall semester, and available for 
discussions with the Fellows, will 
be eight professors from predo
minantly Negro colleges who will 
be developing new undergraduate 
courses in history.
Carnegie Tech is reputed as 
being a national leader in cur
riculum development and teacher 
training.
Evan M. Melhado
Editor-in-Cliief
Richard G. Sextro Sue Attinson
Business Manager Desk Editor
News Editor............................................................................Candy Etkin
Sports Editor.....................................................................Michael Vargo
Layout Editor........................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor ...........................................................John Mera
Assistant News Editor..................................................... Liz Seley
National Advertising Manager..................................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager ........................................Len Wanetik
Secretarial Editor.............................................................Judy Birken
Circulation Manager.............................................Eric P. Feldmann
Frinting Production Managers: David C. Klein, Harvey A. Shapiro
News Staff: Jeff Evans, Larry Fantouzzi, Larry Friedmann, Ellen Levine, 
Ken Lutz, TomMoore, Chipper Monk, Peggy Smolen, Rich Steffens , 
Howard Weiss, Sue Lohnmeyer.
Sports Staff; Elaine Bykowski, Mike Cooperman, Chris Macosko, Larry Sikon.
Layout Staff: Christopher Grondahl, Laura Seidler, Marcy Stern 
Photography Staff: George Hunter, David Leavitt, Sue Lohnmeyer, Gordon 
Morris, Mike Parel,
Business Staff: Barb Brown, Barrie Dinkins, Carol Teaman
Circulation Staff: Debbie Andruss, Camille Badzgon, Nancy Barron, Valerie 
Walton C. W. Walters.
Printers Liason: J. E. Miller
Typists: Janet Adler, Daine Cushing, Emily Ferber, Adele Friedrich, Suzanne 
Kuni, Annette Moser, Christina vom Saal, Sue Wells.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2-50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa . 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except during 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 23, 1966
Crucible is the steel company for you 
if you dont want to work 
for an ordinary 
steel company.
Our steel alloys are special. We even sell a lot of them by the pound.
Some of it goes into missile nose cones.
Or jet engines. Or hi-fis. In other words, our steel is special.
So are our people.
The graduate who comes to Crucible is a certain type of guy. He's the kind who wants to 
be an individual and develop fast.
We throw you in head first. Let you have job responsibility immediately and give you 
guidance as needed. You learn faster and we both grow faster.
So you see, you should consider medium-sized Crucible for your future.
Write George Bartlett, College Coordinator, or tell your placement director you want to see 
the Crucible interviewer.
Hell be at Carnegie Tech tomorrow, March 24.
Crucible Steel Company, Four Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15230. An equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 23, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
Schatz Heads 
ISA Program
Dr. Edward R. Schatz, vice pre
sident of Academic Affairs at Car
negie Tech has been named Confe
rence Program Coordinator for the 
> 21st Annual ISA Conference & Ex
hibit.
His appointment was announced 
by Dr. John G. Truxal, President 
of the Instrument Society of Ame
rica (ISAX
Dr. Schatz will guide develop
ment of the technical program 
for the international event, to be 
held October 24 to 27 in New York 
City. The ISA Conference & Exhi\ bit this year will highlight In
strumentation for an Urban So
ciety.
Dr. Schatz has been Vice Pre
sident of Academic Affairs at Car
negie Tech since 1964. He pre
viously held positions as dean of 
research, assistant dean of the 
college of engineering and sci
ence, assistant head of the De
partment of Electrical Engineer1 ing, and instructor in electrical 
engineering.
A recipient of the Carnegie Tea
ching Award in 1952, Dr. Schatz 
also has been a professor of Elec
trical Engineering since 1961.
Dr. Schatz is a senior mem
ber of ISA and of the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engi
neers. He is the author of several 
technical papers and serves on 
* the Board of Directors of MPC 
Corp., Pittsburgh, and on the 
Scientific Research Advisory 
Group of the Pittsburgh Regional 
Industrial Development Corp.
Dr. Schatz earned his graduate 
and undergraduate degrees from 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Beaux Arts
Continued from Page 2 
wore white tights, blue satin 
pants with blue sequins, and longsleeved white satin shirts with the 
initials SN on the front. Along 
with cardboard eye decorations, 
Felicia sported a white cape and 
tin foil crown.
Fire Plugs And Windows
Joan Weinheimer, as a fire plug 
won for *best female, Her red 
and white foam rubber costum 
had two hose attachments. Green
skinned John Bellamy in a Tarzan costume covered with peas 
in the pod sewn won ^est male. 
He was considered the best of 
several Jolly Green Giants.
Elissa Parker received an award 
for her interpretation of a stain
ed - glass window and was crown
ed Miss Beaux Arts Ball 1966.
At 1 a.m. the Hot Nuts perfor
med some of their slightly risque 
songs. The ball ended at 2:30 
a.m.
Some participants felt that the 
ball was the most spectacular 
event Carnegie Tech has ever 
seen." One guest added that she 
was surprised and pleased to see 
participation by the Administra
tion.
The Superball Committee would 
appreciate purchasable copies of 
all pictures and movies taken at the 
ball.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Corrected.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
Tes-u doG\\ >>%%
|| GINA, MIGGS, PETER, CINDY, GAY, DEB, HALL,  
I RITA, OLIVE, DON, BOB, TONI, PETER, JEFF,  
1 DAL, JOHN, IRIS, BECKY, STEVE, LARRY,  
1 GEORGE, MARVIN, STEVE, DOUG, JANE, JOHN, | 
| DON, CLAUDE, MARK AND DAVID. |
I THANK YOU FOR MAKING THE BALL SO SUPER 
PITTSBURGH 
PLATE GLASS 
COMPANY
CHEMICAL DIVISION 
INTERVIEW DATE: Friday, April 1
Opportunities available in West 
Virginia, Ohio, Louisiana, Texas, 
California, Georgia and Canada.
Heavy chemical producer, emphasis 
in captive uses. Consistant, 
strong Research and Development 
effort. Divisional sales in excess
of $230,000,000-00.
Chemical Engineers - Production, 
Development; Mechanical En
gineers - Maintenance, Engineer
ing Design; Electrical Engineers - 
Maintenance, Design, Instrumenta
tion; Civil Engineers - Con
struction, Design; Chemists - All 
degree levels for research re
sponsibilities.
Keyed-up students: unwind at Sheraton during spring and summer vacation ^and save money...
SEND FOR YOUR FREE ID CARD!
COLLEGE RELATIONS DIRECTOR 
c/o Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008
Please rush me a free Sheraton Student ID Card 
(or a free Faculty Guest Card). I understand it 
entitles me to generous discounts all year long 
at most Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns.
Name________________________________________________
Address
Student ? Teacher ?
Sheraton Hotels & Motor Inns@
Teacher ?
Heres our story
The Rohr Corporation was founded 
by Fred H. Rohr in 1940 based on a 
new idea... that he could specialize in 
the design and manufacture of large 
aircraft components and build them
better at lower cost than the airframe builders themselves. 
The rest is history. Today Rohr is the nations largest sub
contractor to the aerospace industry. Typical of the accept
ance of our product is this: Rohr is building major assemblies 
for every commercial and military multi- J1JF" 
engine jet transport in production in America today. Yet, 
were widely diversified ... designing, building and erecting 
very large tracking antennas around the world, for instance 
nmnii S ... and fabricating large missile and space
components such as rocket engine nozzles and liners. Re
cently Rohr has acquired large, new, long-term contracts. 
More are still un-announced. The future looks bright here, 
and were looking for bright, young engineers to help keep it 
that way.
oD F:82 wAv2 :D, wM1vE
wed like to hear yours.
MECHANICAL AND AEROSPACE ENGINEERS: Research and 
development, design, testing, and plant engineering.
CIVIL ENGINEERS: Structural design and analysis.
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION: Accounting and finance, 
materiel, procurement and production supervision.
MAIN PLANT HEADQUARTERS: CHULA 
VISTA. CALIF./PLANT: RIVERSIDEArrange your interview through your Placement Director. See interview dates above.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION: Accounting and finance, 
material, procurement and production supervision.
ROHR
con PORATI o r\i
For '66...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTOR
Pittsburgh's Factory DealerROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 23, 1966
.Shooters Do Well 
In NRA Sectional
By Scott McCormick
Putting forth their finest team effort of the season, 
Carnegie Techs riflemen fired scores of 1128 and 1121^ 
to take fifth and seventh places in the NRA sectional 
matches hosted by the U.S. Naval Academy at Anna
polis, Maryland. The fifth place finish did not reflect 
on the caliber of the Tartans shooting, but rather 
on the fine caliber of the competition that they faced.
Navys varsity rifle team, an
nually one of the best teams in 
the country, swept the first three 
places, while their plebe team fini
shed fourth. Navys winning scor
es were 1153, 1149, 1141, and 1130. 
Tech was fifth at 1128, Indiana 
sixth with 1126, and Carnegie se
venth with 1121. Teams from Na
vy, Indiana, and Harrisburg Com
munity College finished eighth 
through tenth.
High man for Carnegie's A 
team was sophomore Emory Froelich with a 100-94-91 - 285. He 
received a lot of support from 
Fred Klein with a 100-95-88 - 
283, Dick Damberg at 100-94-87 - 
281, and Ted Mankovich at 100- 
95-84 - 279.
Scott McCormick led the B 
team with a career high 100-97- 
91 - 288. Freshman Fran ODon
nell fired a 100-93-88 - 281, How
ard Graham a 278, and Bruce 
McKelvy a 274 for a total of 1121, 
four points better than Carnegie's 
best team could do last year.
The Tartans had not expected to 
defeat Navy, but they gained a bit 
of revenge by topping Indiana, the 
only team to beat them twice this
season. Coaches Steinbach and 
Speller were pleased with Techs 
showing, especially after beingupset twice in the last three weeks * 
by Allegheny and Clarion. Carne
gie was due to hit a good score, 
and they got it in their most im
portant match. This score will be 
compared with scores from eve
ry other team in the country and 
it should put the Tartans at about 
60th out of 300, if the scores 
run as they did last year.
Medal For Dryden
In the individual competition be- v 
fore the team match, the Tartan 
shooters also did reasonably well, 
but not well enough to beat out 
Navys 290 - plus shooters for 
any medals. Dick Damberg had a 
98-98-88 - 284 and Ted Manko
vich a 99-93-91 - 283, tops for 
Tech. Kay Dryden won the only 
medal for Carnegie, for being 
the top woman with a 271.
Tech has one more match re
maining against Geneva. A win 
here will boost their record to 10 
and 5 for the season and a third 
place finish in the Allegheny In
tercollegiate Rifle League.
'Varsity V-Ball Team 
Wins At West Point
A makeshift Carnegie Tech varsity volleyball 
team travelled to West Point last weekend and won an 
invitational tournament sponsored by the Volleyball 
Club at the U.S. Military Academy. Teams from Army, 
Amherst, New York University, and Pratt competed in 
the tourney.
The tournament was a roundrobin event, and after each team 
had played every other team once 
Tech and Army stood tied for the 
championship. In a one-game play
off, the Tech sextet beat Army 15 
to 12 to win it.
About a week before the tourna
ment Mr. Earl J. Birdy, physical 
education instructor at Tech, had, 
received a letter inviting Tech 
to enter a team. Since CIT has 
no intercollegiate volleyball squad, 
Mr. Birdy brought the letter to the 
attention of Ed Kilpela, an intra
mural volleyball player. Kilpela
rounded up a team consisting of 
himself, Jim Hag arm an, Harvey 
Gammon, Jim Dankosky, and grad 
students John Regan and Sam 
Moise. The men borrowed some 
old black varsity basketball jer
seys, packed, left for New York, 
and won the tournament.
Faculty wife, on campus, wants 
baby-sitter for one child 9:30 
a.m. to 11:15 a.m. Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday begin
ning April 25 ond continuing 
to the end of the semester.
Call 621-1193
Venu Chari plays in table tennis Action in IM Night All-Star volley* 
exhibition at IM Night. ball game. 
Tartan photo by Dave Leavitt
RUGS -$15 - $39
Over 500 new rugs, mostly 9x12s, 
at citys lowest prices. 6x9s, 
9x15s, 12x15s. etc.
The following cosmopolitan oc
casional furniture items are shown: 
director chairs-$18.88; butterfly 
chairs-$10.88; folding rope chairs514.88; and $22.88; chiavari din
ing chairs-Sl 1.88; dining tables$29.88 to $48.88; and slat benches-$9.88 to $14.88- Round Basket 
Chairs-$8.88 
For complete bedrooms, livingrooms, diningrooms at 40% off (t 
Manufacturer showroom), inquire at:
CHASES
5432 Walnut St., Shadyside 
Open 10 a.m.  9 p.m.  Sat. 10-5 
Serving The College Trade....TRIED THE SHACK BARS CARRY OUT SERVICE YET?
ATO Sweeps 
IM Basketball
Tech Enters 
AAU Track
Members of Carnegie Techs 
track team, warming up for their 
first regular dual meet on April 
2, will run in the Allegheny Moun
tain Senior AAU meet on the in
door track at South Park this 
Saturday. Though the Tech men are 
in improved shape, the contest 
promises some top competition.
Pitt won the Junior AAU meet 
three weeks ago and will again be 
strong. A Junior meet is only 
for those contestants who have 
never won an event in AAU com
petition, so the Seniors should 
bring out more Pitt men.
Also, area high school stars 
are in excellent form this year. 
West Mifflins Floyd turned in a 
1:11 in the 600 last weekend in 
the Tri-State Meet at South Park. 
Techs Ken Batorski won the AAU 
Junior 600 in 1:16.
Coach To Run
Besides the usual Tech varsity 
competitors, the teams volunteer 
assistant coach, Rupert Crawford, 
will be running. Crawford, a firstyear grad student at Tech, ran the 
100-yard dash in 9.7 at Courtland 
State College and has been train
ing Tech sprinters. He will run the 
50-yard dash and the 50 low hurdles 
at South Park.
Wrestling
Intramural wrestling was held 
this past week with the winners 
receiving their medals during in
tramural night. SN repeated as 
the team champion this year, BTP 
was second, and SAE finished third. 
Individually in the finals: 135-lb. 
class  Joe Minadeo (Laundrymen) beat Frank Stark (SN) 3-1. 
150 - lb. class  Terry Meyer 
11-0. 165 - lb. class  Dick 
Stafford (SN) beat Jim Jacks (AT) 
(ATO) 6-4. Unlimited class  Mike 
Kalish (BTP) won by default over 
Buzz Walker (ATO).
Jag Finals 
In the Jag basketball champion
ship game last Monday night, Dave 
Ciliberti poured in 18 points as 
the Dorm Wipe Outs overcame the 
Dormants 40 to 23.
ATO-GSIA title game pitted two biggest teams in the school against 
each other. ATO, shown here on defense, won 55-51-
Tartan Photo by Dave Leavitt
In the highlight event of intramural night last 
Friday, ATO swept to the basketball championship 
with a decisive 55-51 win over G.S.I.A. The game 
opened up with ATO controlling all the rebounds 
and moving out to a quick 23-8 lead. GSIA then pulled 
itself together and, with some good outside shooting, 
closed to within four points, 27-23, at the half. 
But in the second half, ATO, led by Jim Newells 
outside shots and Bill Schlieps post-play, went on to 
open up a ten-point lead which they held until the 
final moments of the game. ________________________
Newell finished the game with 
22 points, while Sam Moise was 
high for GSIA with 21. The grads 
suffered when pivot man Don Dansereau fouled out in the third 
quarter.
ATO, the highest-scoring team 
in the school, swept into the fin
als of the playoffs by beating the 
Interns 74 to 32 in the first round, 
GSIA B 52 to 37 in the quarter
finals, and PKA 63 to 25 in the 
semifinals. GSIA reached the title 
game by winning over the Hulk 
Howlers 34-26, the Grad Nads, 
and BTP 48-46.
In the consolation game for third 
place, played at 5:30 Friday eve
ning, BTP beat PKA 42 to 36. 
With the contest tied 21-21 at halftime, the Betas scored three quick 
baskets at the start of the second 
half, then the two teams played 
to a standstill the rest of the way. 
BTP, last years champs, had 
beaten SAE 39-32 and the Civil 
Hammers 50-32. The Hammers
game was protested and replay
ed, with BTP winning again 45- 
42, but it was a costly game for 
them as forward Dale Klein broke 
his leg.
PiKA, fielding one of the small
est teams in the playoffs, had upen
ded TDP 42-28 in the first-round 
play. In the quarterfinals they eli
minated Grad Physics, last years 
second-place team, 37 to 28.
More IM Night Events
IM Night activities also includ
ed trophy presentations, an allstar volleyball game and an exhi
bition table-tennis match.
In the volleyball game the Civil 
Hammers All-Stars, playing with 
just four men, beat the SAE 
All-Stars (who played with five^ 
15-0, 5-15, 15-13.
TTie table tennis exhibition pro
vided the closest competition of 
the night. Venu Chari, a former 
Tech singles champion, and La
rue Brown, a woman player from 
Duquesne, split the first two gam
es of a best - of - three set, and 
Miss Brown won the third by 26 to 
24.
Fast, Fast, S#fvtc.
THRIFTH SWIFT 
DRIVE IN
