^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53  NUMBER 3 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1960
Tartan Interviews 
Queen Candidates
Many a freshman girl will envy the Homecoming Queen 
candidates this year  not only because one of the candi
dates will reign as Queen of Rhyme, but also because 
they will have a chance to meet some of the men on campus.
All eight candidates agreed that 
Tech has a friendly atmosphere 
and considerably more males than 
femalesbut how do you get to 
meet them?
They will have a chance to 
meet all the dorm and fraternity 
men next week when they tour 
the male living quarters as part 
of their campaigns for the elec
tions scheduled for Tuesday, Oc
tober 18. A Phi O will place ballot 
boxes at strategic areas on camF
Wendy Bers, a psychology ma
jor from Jenkintown, Pa., already 
has a pet peeve about Tech  she 
finds the school spirit around here 
very disappointing. But the males 
shes met are intelligent, cute 
and loaded with personality. She 
is vice president of Schiller Dorm 
and fire chief and social chairman. 
Ij high school, her favorite activties were cheerleading, student 
council, color leader and sports 
teams.
Susie Binns attended Madison 
College in Virginia for a year as 
a pre-med major before coming 
to Tech to study directing. She 
has had directing experience in 
both high school and college and 
l| t year was a member of the 
varsity and state hockey teams. 
Her hometown is Fairfax, Va,
Lois Bolner is an old timer at 
Tech. While attending Taylor Alderdice High School, she took 
courses in art, sculptor and paint
ing at Tech. A fashion design ma
jor in Maggie Murph, she hopes 
to write for the VOLUOME Last 
jflar she was runner-up for May 
Queen.
Ellie Denberg, who likes all 
the Tech men, was graduated 
from Peabody High School and 
is majoring in English. Her high 
school activities included Na
tional Honor Society, Leaders 
Club, Masque and Wig. She would^
ry much like to see more traJons enforced at Tech, such as 
compulsory wearing of freshmen 
dinks.
Janet Harton is another Pitts
burgher. She attended Grier 
School for Girls in Tyrone, Pa. 
She was president of the Math 
Club and active on the yearbook 
staff, riding and French Clubs. 
She is now majoring in psychol
ogy and her particular ansv/er to 
tb ' school spirit question was I 
went to a girls school.
BAGPIPERS 
Freshmen Interested in tak
ing lessons to learn to play 
the bagpipes, come to Thistle 
Hall at 4:30 p.m. Thursday, 
October 13.
Sharon Levine hails fror' Teaneck, N. J., and decided to come 
to Tech because she heard about 
the terrific Drama Department. 
Somewhere along the way she 
changed her plans and is now an 
English major. She was active on 
the yearbook staif, French club, 
and president of the Drama Cociety. She appeared as an actress 
in numerous productions at the 
Teaneek Jewish Community Cen
ter.
Peggy Riva, a business studies 
major from Manessant, Pa., is 
wondering why the intelligent 
people around here are so apa
thetic about all-school activities. 
In high school, she was a major
ette, vice president of the Glee 
Club and on senior council.
Ara Scelsi wanted a liberal arts 
education with an art major 
when she was selecting colleges. 
That was months ago. Today she 
is a foreign language major in 
Maggie Murph. A native of Bing
hamton, N. Y., she was on the 
broadcasting staff of WNBF and 
a member of the Tri-Hi-Y, 
French and Drama Clubs.
Each of the candidates has a 
variety of interests, but they all 
seemed in agreement on three 
points: (1) there should be more 
activities for females to meet 
males and vice versa; (2) school 
spirit needs a shot in the arm; 
and (3) Scotch n Soda looks like 
an organization that offers 
something to everyone.
Tech Field 
Dedication At 
Homecoming
The dedication of Tech Field 
will take place immediately prior 
to the Homecoming game.
At approximately 1:55, the 
teams will return from the dress
ing rooms and immediately line
up on opposing 45 yard lines 
forming an aisle 10 yards wide.
Mel Cratsley, Athleic Director, 
will go to the center of the field 
and announce an observation of a 
moment of silence for the late Dr. 
Eddie Baker.
At completion of the Baker 
commemorative, the Carnegie 
Pipers will march between the 
lines (playing), across the field 
in direction of stands, turn when 
they reach other side and then 
cease playing. This will be the 
signal for Dr. J. C. Warner, Mr. 
Jim Bovard, and Mr. Emil Lucas 
to walk to center of field and the 
microphone. Dr. Warner will in
troduce Mr. Jim Bovard, Chair
man of the Board of Trustees, 
who will speak for approximately 
two minutes concerning the fact 
that this is the first time Car 
negie has played a home game 
in more than 30 >ears; the pride 
the Board of Trustes has in 
turning Tech Field over to the 
students for their use.
When Mr. Bovard has com
pleted his talk, he will introduce 
Mr. Emil Lucas, Chairman of the 
Steffen Committee and ask him 
to hand the game ball to Gary 
Yarbrough, Carnegie Tech cap 
tain.
The game should begin at ap 
proximately 2:05.
STUDENT CONGRESS MEETING 
Student Congress meeting 
today, 4:30 in room 100 Porter 
Hall.
Fraternities, Sororities 
Pick Themes For H. C.
With Techs homecoming week
end only nine days away, sound
ings and poundings will soon fill 
the days and nights as sororities 
and fraternities prepare their tra
ditional skits and displays.
Geared toward the theme, Re
turn to Rhyme, the individual 
groups have chosen a wide variety 
of illustrative topics.
Fraternity Displays
Tau Delta Phis display is named 
Hickory Dickory Dock and will 
feature a dapper young mouse 
(Rochester) attempting to reach 
the Tech goal post which is 
blocked off by a huge clock. At 
the stroke of one, a Tech Tartan 
appears and chases the mouse back 
to its lair.
Beta Theta Pis Humpty Dumpty is a bad, old egg named Ro
chester. A Tartan player provides 
the impetus for Humptys fall 
while the entire Tech student body 
cheers.
Delta Upsilon will show Little 
Jack Horner sitting in his corner 
defending with a huge flit gun his 
Homecoming Pie from the Ro
chester Yellow Jackets. As the 
yellow jackets attempt to pene
trate the steamy mist, they fall to 
the ground, disappear and are re
placed by a tombstone which pops 
up on the spot. Jack then devours 
his pie in peace.
Theta Xis Queen of Hearts 
bakes some tarts which are quick
ly stolen by a Jack from Roches
ter. A series of persuasive tactics 
are maneuvered by Techs king 
before Jack returns the tarts.
" Will Alpha Tau Omega build an
other $1500, 300 foot high castle 
to illustrate Fe FI Fo Fum???
Sigma Alpha Epsilon has a Car 
negie Piper as Tom, Tom, the 
Pipers Son. He steals the pig
skin, charges through the yellow 
jacket line and scores the win
ning touchdown. Alumni fill the 
stands of Techfield and are wel
comed by high flying pennants.
PiKA
Pi Kappa Alphas Three Blind 
Mice will become three blind 
river rats who are Rochesters 
three best players. They are cap
tured on the wharfs of the Ro
chester River by a Tech cheer
leader who deftly wraps them in a 
net. A crane lowers the filled net 
into the churning river showing 
the ease with which the Tartans 
stifle the opponent.
Delta Tau Delta will have the 
spider (Tech) spinning a web and
Three Members Named 
To Board of Trustees
Three new members have been elected to the Carnegie 
Tech Board of Trustees, and a former alumni member has 
been elected to a life trusteeship, it was disclosed at a meeting 
of the Carnegie Board last week.
In the second major Board elec-#   -...... .................
tion in the past seven months,
James M. Bovard, Chairman, an
nounced the following new trustAlfred S. Andrews, President, 
Andrews, Bartlett and Associates, 
Inc., Cleveland.
Mark W. Cresap, Jr., President 
and Chief Executive Officer, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 
Pittsburgh.
M. Nielson, President. The Bab
cock & Wilcox Company, New 
York.
At the same time Lloyd E. Yo
der, Vice President, National 
Broadcasting Company, and Gen
eral Manager of WMAQ radio and 
WNBQ-TV, Chicago, was elected 
a Life Trustee.
Mr. Andrews
pany of Philadelphia.
After serving in the armed 
forces for four years, Mr. Cresap 
returned in 1948 to help organize 
the firm of Cresap, McCormick 
and Paget. While a partner in 
this firm he conducted many 
studies for Westinghouse which 
eventually led to his joining that 
organization as Vice President and 
Assistant to the President in 1951. 
He became President on January 
1, 1958 and in 1959. the Board of 
Directors designated him as Chief 
Executive Officer.
Mr. Cresap is on the boards of 
many institutions in Pittsburgh 
and the surrounding area and 
holds Doctor of Laws degrees from 
Miami University, Oxford, Ohio,
 , J . ,. , _ and Waynesburg College, Waynes*Mr. Andrews is a native of Day- i 5urg pa
ton, Ohio, and a 1926 graduate of ' Mr Nie|seT1
Carnegie Tech. Immediately fol-1 Mr Nielsenis a native of BeI_
lowing his graduation from Car- | den Nebraska, and has been withnegie he was employed for two 
years as Architects Superintend
ent at the Walker 5 Weeks Co. 
and for six years as an Engineer 
with the U. S. Fidelity and Guar
antee Co. In 1934, he organized 
and served as President of the 
Great Lakes Box Co. in Cleveland 
and in 1940 he purchased the AmThe Babcock and Wilcox Company 
since 1924 when he was employed 
as a construction worker in the 
Chicago district. He quickly ad
vanced through the ranks, and 
during the war was responsible for 
the marine erection department 
which designed boilers for more
ta than 4100 of the approximatelyencan Decorating Company. The ; 5400 major 3U.,.,m_po';v(,rcd anj
firm expanded rapidly and even 
tually became Andrews, Bartlett 
'and Associates, Inc., with Mr. An
drews serving as President.
He is extremely active ifi civic 
affairs in Cleveland and holds 
memberships in the Cleveland En
gineering Society, the American 
Society of Civil Engineers, the Na
tional Association of Manufactur
ers and the Cleveland Advertising 
Club.
merchant vessels built duiing the 
war.
After serving as Production Su
perintendent at the Companys 
largest pjant in Barberton, Ohio, 
for three years, Mr. Nielsen moved 
to the firms New York office as an 
Executive Assistant. In 1952. he 
was made an Assistant Vice Presi
dent, and in 1955 was elected Ex
ecutive Vice President with reMr. Cresap is a native of Chi- sP^bilitiesinvolving all
caeo and received his A B de- branches of the company. He was cago, ana receivta ms /\.d. ae | eiec+e{j President in Anril 1Q*i7gree from williams College and, AT VO i *  p  
his M.B.A. from Harvard Busi- j r' N.lelsen 15 a Trustee f Al
ness School. Upon graduation, he 1 ^or oi ny companies and also 
joined the Chicago consulting firm *olc!s membership in several pro. 
of Booz. Allen and Hamilton, re- ' fesslnal organizations, 
maining there until 1939 when he v 1 r .
was named Merchandising Man- L 3 '?.*   graduate of
ager of tho John B. Stetson Com- ! Carnegie  Tech s Col ege of FineArts, was Carnegies first AllAmerican football player. After 
completing his study at Carnegie 
Tech, he immediately joined the 
National Broadcasting Company 
as Manager of the Western Divis
ion Press Department, San Fran
cisco. In 1937, he was made Gen
eral Manager of KPO-KGO radio 
in San Francisco and has since 
served as General Manager of 
radio and television stations in 
Denver, Cleveland, Philadelphia 
and Chicago.
In 1956, Mr. Yoder was made 
a Vice President of NBC. In ad
dition, he is also now serving as 
General Manager of WMAQ radio 
and WNBQ-TV in Chicago. Last 
year he was given the unique 
honor of being nominated for a 
position in the National Football 
Hall of Fame.
He is extremely active in civic 
affairs, especially the Rotary 
Club, and has served as President 
of the Denver Rotary, as a Di
rector of both the Philadelphia 
and San Francisco Rotary Clubs 
and at present is a member I 
the Chicago Rotary Club.
completely entangling the fly (Ro
chester) as they bring to life the 
Spider and the Fly.
Phi Kappa Theta has chosen the 
Old Woman in the Shoe for its 
theme. The shoe represents Ro
chester College and the little chil
dren are the defeated yellow jack
ets who are being chastized by the 
disappointed coach, the old wom
an.
Sigma Nus Little Miss Muffet 
is not the same Miss Muffet of the 
familiar rhyme. As the confident 
villian descends upon his appar
ently helpless victim, Miss Muffet 
doesnt run, but launches an in
surmountable air attack.
Beta Sigma Rhos theme, Four 
and Seven Yellow Jackets, is 
based on the rhyme Four and 
Twenty Blackbirds. The football 
field is an enormous pie with the 
yellow jackets baking inside. 
When the Tartans defeat them, 
they fly out of the pie and amuse 
the Homecoming Queen.
Kappa Sigma will have the re
turning alumni as guardians of 
[continued NM BORW DJ

---------------------------------------------------

VOLU M E 53NBRWB D3D3N E SUAYU,AOCT 12 96 0Ua nMT Wyfr
BULLETIN BOARD
Discussion Series
A short course of informal talks 
by Rev. W. Scott Morton on the 
subject What Does the Church 
Believe will begin on the 16th 
of October at 10:00 a.m. Given 
at the Belleileld Presbyterian 
Church, the talks are intended for 
inquirers, non-m e m b e r s , and 
members.
Wesley Foundation
The Wesley Foundation will 
hold its weekly meetings at 4307 
Bigelow Blvd. every Tuesday 
night. Supper is served at 6:00 
p.m. and the discussions or 
speeches will be presented at 
7:00 p.m.
Great Boohs
A Great Books Open House will1 
take place Thurs. eve., Oct. 13, at j 
8:15 p.m. in the Schweitzer Room 
of the Unitarian Church in Shadyside, Ellsworth and Morewood 
Ave.
The public is invited to see and 
hear a group of Great Books mem
bers give a demonstration discus
sion on Platos Apology & Crito. 
Persons interested in joining one 
of the 35 discussion groups meet
ing in the Pittsburgh area can also 
meet with the leaders and register 
with a group at this time.
The Open House is free to the 
public. Further information on 
Great Books discussion groups can 
be obtained from Mrs. Sanford 
Lampl, local coordinator, at 1425 
Beechwood Blvd., Tel. JA 1-8950.
Travel
Carnegie Tech Travel Office, lo
cated in room 246-B Administra
tion Hall, extends an invitation to 
faculty and students alike to 
make greater use of its complete 
facilities for handling travel ar
rangement by plane, ship, bus and 
train. Staffed by experienced per
sonnel, Tech Travel will cheer
fully make reservation- and fur
nish tickets without one cent of 
additional charge.
Student organizations are also 
encouraged to consult with the 
travel office for information on 
out-of-town group transportation, 
and special hotel reservation 
rates. And for those who have 
inquired about the possibility of 
a Carnegie Tech chartered flight 
to Europe during the summer 
(1961) vacation, plans are now 
being formulated toward that end. 
Prior to that, however, is the 
strong possibility of an air tour 
to Bermuda during College 
Week.'
Notary Public
Notary Public will be in the 
Office of the Registrar, A.H. 160, 
on Monday through Friday from 
al:30 to 2:30 each afternoon to 
notarize Absentee Ballots or ap
plications for them.
Debate Club
The Carnegie Tech Debate Club, 
! under the advisorship of Mr. Har
old Lee, will officially begin its 
formal competition on November 
5 when a novice tournament will 
: be held at Westminster College. 
I On November 12, the Tech De
bate Club will be host to approxi
mately twenty-live schools at a 
novice varsity competition will 
be held at Duque.?ne University 
on November 19, followed by a 
tournament at Pitt on Decem
ber 3.
The Debate Club, consisting of 
approximately twelve me Veers 
has the following students as its 
officers:
PresidentMarilyn Miller.
Vice President Mark Appelj baum.
TreasurerChris Hardy.
Tournament Chairman  Gil 
: McGurl.
Spectators are urged to attend 
all debates held on the Tech 
campus. Room' 100 in Porter Hall 
1 will serve as headquarters for the 
tournaments, which begin at 12:30 
1 p.m.
Staff Positions
Students interested in working 
on Patterns, either in staff or edi
torial capacity, are reminded that 
the deadline for applications is 
October 15. The old staff hopes 
that the trend toward apathy on 
the Tech Campus has not hinder
ed capable students from applying 
for positions on the new staff.
Technical Sales
The October issue of the CAR
NEGIE TECHNICAL will be on 
| sale SNNME Computer theme inj eludes articles on:
1. Analog Computers  Myron 
j Salamon
2. A Heuristic Approach to Chess 
Programs  George Baylor
3. Boolean Algebra and its Ap
plication to Electrical Circuits 
Dave Parnas
4. Egbert, Carnegies Marvelous 
Freshman  Sam* Geffner
ACCIDENT 
Those students who did not 
nurchase the Carnegie-Sponred Accident Insurance Pol
icy may still do so. October 31 
will be the last day on which 
applications will be received.
Democratic Club
A Students for Kennedy and 
Johnson Club is now being form
ed on campus. Because it is im
portant that students receive op
portunity to familiarize them
selves with political activities, the 
group is being organized to give 
opportunity to interested students, 
regardless of party, for broadening*, 
their experience in political pro
cesses. Those students who are 
interested in joining this new 
group are asked to contact Beverlee Hallow, 132-G, A.H.
ULA Y,UA C *
TT
Y Forum
We were with the Student Y 
in Russia and Turkey will be the 
theme of the Y Forum at 4:30 
Thursday, October 13, featuring 
Arleen Russell, former president 
of the Pitt Y.W.C.A., and David 
Epperson, president of the Pitt 
Y.M.C.A. Arleen participated in a 
study tour of the Soviet Union 
this past summer and Dave parti
cipated in a Y.M.C.A. work camp 
Turkey. Reacting to the speakers 
will be a panel of Tech students 
who were in Western Europe thir 
summer: Leslie Asplundh, Linda 
Herrington, and Sue Jacob, with 
John Glasscock serving as moder
ator.
The 4:30 forum is open to all, 
and will be followed by dinner7 at 
5:45 p!!n. Dinner will be 85c for 
Y members and $1.25 for non
members. Make reservations at 
the Y office.
Y-Sister
The Y Sister Program with 
Freshmen girls is planning a t( .. li
ter party to attend the opening 
concert of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony on Sunday, October 16. Re
servations may be made through 
the Y Office or with Bobbie Bates, 
5-D-4 Morewood Gardens.
do girls get in your hair?
This is the kind of problem Vaseline Hair Tonic creates 
all the time. If you use water with your hair tonic (as 
most men do) count on Vaseline Hair Tonic to LWB1OYW 
the oil that water removes. Use all the water you want 
with Vaseline Hair Tonic. Your hair looks great, stays 
neater longer. And just a little does a lot!
VASELINEHAIR TONIC
NMVOr W * HtlM TMMMM  *?*> <# 29A
Campuswith Maxhu]man
60,UaNL NT n3 JFas a VWWMyORW frOLT es nVaW hOMm 
gNiWS NT fNlwW vtUUwSes WUYEH
WHAT TO DO TILL THE 
PSYCHIATRIST COMES
Once upon a time at the University of Virginia there was a 
coed named, oddly enough, Virginia University who was hand
some and kindly and intelligent, and ingeniously constructed 
and majoring in psychology. Virginia went steady with a young 
man on campus named, oddly enough, Oddly Enough who was 
supple and fair and lithe and animated and majoring in phys ed.
Virginia and Oddly enjoyed a romance that was as idyllic as 
a summer day, as placid as a millpond. Never did they fight 
never, never, never?because Virginia, who was majoring in 
psychology, did not believe in fighting. Fighting, she often 
said, "settles nothing. The scientific way is to look calmly for 
the cause of the friction.
So whenever she and Oddly were on the verge of a cjuarrel, 
she used to whip out a series of ink blot tests and they would 
discover the true underlying cause of their dispute and deal 
with it in an enlightened, dispassionate manner. Then, the 
irritant removed, their romance would resume its tranquil, 
serene, unruffled course.
After six months of this sedate liaison, Oddly was so bored 
he could spit. He loved Virginia well enough, but he also be-? 
lieved that people in love ought to fight now and then. It 
opens the pores, he said. And besides, its so much fun mak
ing up afterwards.
But Virginia would not be provoked into a quarrel. One night 
Oddly tried very hard. Hey, he said to her, your nose looks 
like a banana, and your ears look like radar antenna, and your 
face looks like a pan of worms.
My goodness, were hostile tonight! said Virginia cheerfully 
and whipped 120 Rorschach cards out of her reticule. Come/? 
she said, let us examine your psychic apparatus.
Oddly tried again. Youre fat and dumb and disagreeable,*? 
he said, and youll be bald before youre thirty.
Hmm, said Virginia thoughtfully and lit a cigarette. This 
sounds like an anxiety neurosis with totemism, anagogic trauma, 
and a belt in the back.
I hate you, said Oddly. I hate your looks and your clothes 
and your toenails and your relatives and the cigarettes you 
smoke.
Now, hold on, buster! cried Virginia, her eyes crackling, 
her color mounting, her nostrils aflame. Just keep a civil 
tongue in your stupid head when you talk about Marlboro! 
Nobodys knocking that filter, that flavor, that pack or flip-top 
box while theres breath in my body 1 Its a full-flavored smoke, 
its a doozy, its a dilly, its a gas and anybody who says a 
word against it gets UawSEe
By UawS Virginia meant a series of combinations to the 
head and liver, which she now delivered to Oddly and turned 
on her heel and stormed away.
Oddly brought her down with a flying tackle. *I love you 
with all my heart, he said.
And Marlboro? said she.
And Marlboro even more, said he.
And they kissed and plaited love knots in one anothers hair 
and were married at Whitsuntide and smoked happily ever after.
V OLUM E5 e90shOmg
 * #
You too can *moke happilywith Marlboro, or with 
Marlboro** unfiltered companion cigarette, Philip Morris 
available in regular *ize or the ensational new king tize 
Commander. Hat* a Commander'-welcome aboard t
ow

---------------------------------------------------

SUAYU,AOCT 1L960U2 nMT nifi E 53NBRWB D3D3N E VOlw i
"COKE" I A RCattTCftCO TftAOC-MAft. COPYft*HT t9S TH* COCA-COLA COMPANY,Know the answer?
What' an eight-letter word which 
reminds you of good taste, sparkle, lift? 
The answers easyCoca-Cola of 
course. No puzzle about why its so 
popular ... no other sparkling drink 
gives you so much good taste, so 
much satisfaction. Yes, when youre 
looking for refreshment, 
the answers always Coke IBE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
vt3HB oD3DB 5153c51Q3 u1DDQWNR 51a 
dbM 5UY92O 3Ua pW ncbrnn
To err is human ... 
to erase, divine with
EATONS CORRASABLE BOND 
Typewriter Paper
Try it! Just the flick of a 
pencil-eraser and your 
typing errors are gone! Its 
like magic! The special 
surface of Corrasable Bond 
WLOSWS rwUaN,U O ULOYWE Your 
first typing effort is the 
finished copy when 
Corrasable puts things right.
This fine quality bond gives 
a handsome appearance to 
all your work. Saves time 
and money, too!
Erasable Corrasable 8 available In light, medium, heavy 
weights and onion skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets 
end 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter 
Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATONS CORRASABLE BOND
Made only by Eaton 
EATON PAPER CORPORATION LUM E533N5BRWD SAAY,CB33
CULTURAL 
CALENDAR
. The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra opens its 34th, and longest, 
season at the Syria Mosque this 
Friday night, October 14. The 
music that William Steinberg has 
chosen for this concert is three 
great popular works, Mozarts 
Symphony No. 41 in C Major 
(The Jupiter), Haydns Sinfonia 
Concertante for violin, cello, oboe, 
and bassoon, and Beethovens 
Symphony no. 7 in A major. These 
represent the first program in the 
Haydn-Mozart-Beethoven Cycle 
cle which will be featured in 
many programs throughout the 
series this year. The solist in the 
Haydn piece will be Samuel Thavier, violin; Thie Salzman, cello; 
Arthur Krilov, oboe; Arthur Kubey, bassoon. The concert will be
gin at 8:40 Friday evening, and 
will be repeated Sunday afternoon 
at 3:15.
Nixon
The Nixon continues its legiti
mate theater season this week 
with Lorraine Hansberrys play, 
A Raisin in the Sun. Claudin 
McNeil will play the same role 
she originated on Broadway in 
this play which wTon the Drama 
Critics Award as the best play of 
the 1957-1958 season.
Then Saturday, October 15, in 
the Memorial Hall in Oakland, 
coNMUwM,WQ NM BORW 5]
Mortar Board 
Scholarship
The National Council of Mortar 
Board announces the Katherine 
Willis Coleman Fellowships for 
graduate work for the academic 
year 1961-62.
One Fellowship will be awarded 
to an active member of a 1960-61 
chapter of Mortar Board who can 
qualify as a candidate for an ad
vanced degree beyond the bach
elors in an accepted university. 
One Fellowship will be awarded 
to an alumna or an active mem
ber; the alumna member shall not 
have graduated from colege more 
than two years prior to the award, 
shall not have previously attended 
graduate school and shall be able 
to qualify as a candidate for an 
advanced degree beyond the bach
elors in an accepted university. 
The candidate may receive this 
award in addition to any other 
fellowship or assistantship.
Graduate Study
The Katherine Willis Coleman 
Fellowship, named in honor of a 
former National resident of Mor
tar Board, have been awarded for 
several years to active members 
of the organization as an aid to 
graduate study. For the past two 
years an award has been offered 
to an alumna member who has 
not graduated from alumna col
lege more than two years prior tothe award.
Additional information, as well 
as application forms, may be ob
tained from Miss Daisy Parker, 
Mortar Board Fellowship Chair
man, Department of Government, 
Florida State University, Talla
hassee, Florida. Application re
quest must be made by December
1, 1960.
SkitsTEAR THIS AD OUT NOW
SAVE MONEY
with these low student rates!
DW.B ?Mb xk,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa8nayb
DW.B ?W C2q 2Ul 8b aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aPb
DW.B ?M C2,- aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa barr
iF QWjB ?Mn xk,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaanayn
QWjB ?n C2q 2Ul 8dayd aaaaaaaaa Jarr
QWjB ?M C2,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa barr
VQ3u1 ?N6cIsYUq aaaaaaaaaaaa adr
VQ3u1 ?W C2q 2Uia 8waaaaaaaaaadarr
oV1Do WQQtoD3DB|
?M xk,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa nayb
oV1Do WQQtoD3DB| 
Gf m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Madr
oV1Do WQQtoD3DB|
?n C2q 2Ul wabd aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Jarr
iF j1DtNB ?W C2q 2Ul 8nraaaaaaaaaa badr
c/F p1toB  p1.B ?n C2q 2Ul ow Jadr 
35pWDa j1t. ?n C2q
2Ul 8radr aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aMd
Fo3Dt|3 B'WBS ?n C2q
2Ul 8barr aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Jarr
F 3DQ3NDW5 .1NDpQ GP m6,qa arr
F p3VB4o .1NDpa ?n C2q
2Ul 8f aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa arr
F DpB BV1DB ?nr m6,EYUxq aMb
iF NBS BVtuQW5 ?Md xk,qaaaaaaaa arr
F o5WBNDWjW5 3.BW53N
?y m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa:a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Jadr
v 5p3NRWNR DW.Bo
?f m6,EYUxq aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Marr
F to NBS i S Gy xk,EYUxqa afb
F 5pWoDW3N o5W .1N ?w m6,q a darr
F VtN5p ?n C2q 2Ul oWand aaaaaaaayarrB
 B3QWDWBo ?n C2q 2Ul Pnd aa anrarr 
R3VpWo ?f m6,q 2Ul 8nd annaMd
F o3D B'BNWNR V1oD ?y xk,qa ayr
F o3D B'BNWNR V1oD ?fr xk,qa Jaby
v Q11H ?P m6,q a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Marr
F BovtWB ?P m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Marr
F B3|h(o |WRBoD ?P m6,q aaa Marr
i F 511NBD ?b m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa narr
F V3RB3ND ?n C2q 2Ul 8JaMr a aa adr
F .3|B.1WoBQQB ?n C2q 2Ul 8d Madr
F RQ3.1t ?n C2q 2Ul 8J aaaaaaaaMadr
F p3VB4o u3)33
?n C2q 2Ul 8d aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa arr
F '1RtB ?n C2q 2Ul iPadr aaaaaaaaaadarr
F .U53QQ4o ?nd m6,EYUxq aaaaaaaa naPP
F R11| p1toBHBBVWNR ?M C2,q ayP
F Q3|WBo( p1.B I1tN3Q
?y m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Madr
F Q3|WBo( p1.B I1tN3Q
?nr m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa MaPr
F B|u11H ?e9 m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa MaMd
F p1toB uB3tDWjtQ ?M C2,q aa farr
F 3.BW53N p1.B ?Md m6,q a a a aMd
F p1toB  R3|BN ?W C2q
2Ul 8d aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa arr
F p1QW|3 ?nd m6,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa oabd
F V1VQ3 .B5p3NW5o ?Mr m6,q MayP
F .1|BN VWW1D1R ?n C2q
2Ul 8J aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa;aa MaPb
F D' RtW|B ?JJ xk,q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
^C 12AU2 Y6xa zs0h,>U2 xh 0h C6s O9U2
oDt|BND otuo5WVDW1N oB'W5B 
Mn N62x66A o9aT Q6, 3YlUU, bT 5Ohea
BYL6,UA 8aaaaaaaaaaa oUYA ,s0,L2hz9h6Y, 96
YOmU
OAA2U,,
city
L6UlU LO,, 6e
v NUx v UYUx uh vRhe9 e26mMAIL IT RIGHT AWAY
ROTC Guidon
Once again Flagstaff Hill will 
be the center of activity every 
Thursday as the ROTC Regiment 
holds its weekly drill.
This years Regiment is made 
up of 575 cadets, of w'hich 57 are 
seniors, 77 are juniors, 164 soph
omores, and 277 are freshmen. 
This is the largest freshman class 
in many years, while the senior 
class is one of the smallest.
This year's Regimental Com
mander, with the rank of Colonel 
is A1 Patz. A1 is also active in 
ATO, AICE, and Scabbard and 
Blade, and ROTC Honor Society, 
where he holds the office of Cap
tain.
Deputy Regimental Commander Glenn Julian is a senior phys
icist. He also is a member of 
Pershing Rifles, Phi Kappa Phi, 
and Pi Mu Epsilon.
Mike Georgelis, as 1st Battalion 
Commander, holds the rank of Lt. 
Col. A metallurgist, Mike is pres
ident of the Metals Club. He is 
also president of Claymore Clan, 
treasurer of both the Dorm Coun
cil and Scabbard and Blade, and 
a member of Student Court.
The 2nd Battalion is command
ed by Barry Biagini. Barry is a 
member of PR, BTP, Scabbard 
and Blade, AIEE, and photog
raphy staff of the Thistle.
As company commanders, each 
of the following will be trying 
to mold his unit into the out
standing company in the Regi
ment: Marty Cannon, Ron Rish, 
Jim Whalen, John Fry, Bill Wat
son, and Mike Zerner.
Outstanding MS III cadets who 
were promoted to the positionof 
platoon sergeants are D. Ayres, L. 
Domenic, R. Soulchin, R. Buth, 
T. Dristas, E. Pollock, P. Kenney, 
J. Miller, H. Tietz, J. Craig, E. 
Shuey, E. Stewart, W. Askew, H 
Heacox, R. Martlett, N. Niccolai, C. Raquet, and K. Wilson.
The freshman cadets wrill drill 
separately for the first five weeks. 
Following this indoctrination pe
riod, they will be assigned to 
companies, and continue to drill 
with the Regiment for the re
mainder of the outdoor drill pe
riods. Outdoor drill for the fall 
semester is scheduled to continue 
until November 17.
coNMUwM,WQ TLNu BORW fj 
both Techs honor and the Can
dlestick. Quick and nimble yel
low* J AC Kets cant get over this 
formidable barrier and are doom
ed.
Sorority Skits
Delta Gamma will make A 
Visit From St. Nick take a new 
light this year when they present 
The Night Before Homecoming,1' 
The traditional Christmas atmos
phere will give way to the color
ful atmosphere of football, the ar
rival of alumni, and the approach
ing conflict with the yellow jack
ets.
Alpha Epsilon Phi returns to 
rhyme with the Queen of Heartsville, a mythical setting for a 
majestic homecoming.
Delta Delta Delta will offer their 
interpretation of the Woman Who 
Lived in the Shoe and show how 
the Tech collegiate changed the 
old womans ways.
Kappa Alpha Thetas skit 
Alumty Dumpty is set in an 
oriental garden and presents a 
light story about Alumty and his 
charming band of children en
countering a quartet of pc nicious 
yellow jackets.
Chi Omega will stage The Tar
tan Dog and the Yellow-Jack 
Cat. The Tech football team, em
bodied in a scottie dog, and the 
yellow jackets paraphrase the fig
ures in Eugene Fields poem, The 
Gingham Dog and The Calico 
Cat.
Kappa Kappa Gamma will pre
sent the Three Little Kittens'* 
who found their mittens and van
quished the rat close by.
Sigma Kappa will tell w'hat hap
pens to Mary and her lamb as 
they go to Rochester Elementary 
School. The title is Tartan Mary 
and her Boppin Lamb.
Many persons at and around 
Tech have been wondering why 
Tech is playing Rochester College 
at Homecoming this year. Mel 
Cratsley, team coach, says that the 
school wanted a good game, not 
a pushover. Last year Rochesters 
record was 7-1-0, the same as 
Techs. Also, the administration 
wants games with schools having 
educational and scholarship poli
cies similar to ours. Rochester fills 
the bill.
Woodrow Wilson 
Fellowships 
For Graduates
An election campaign promising 
rich rewards for the successful 
candidates gets under way today 
as thousands of faculty members 
from universities and colleges in 
the United States and Canada be
gin to nominate college seniors for 
Woodrow Wilson graduate fellow
ships.
In announcing the opening of 
the competition for the academic 
year 1961-62, Dr. Hugh Taylor, 
President of the Woodrow Wilson 
National Fellowship Foundation, 
estimated that well over 9,000 stu
dents will be nominated by the 
closing date of October 31.
Designed to reduce a nation
wide shortage of qualified college 
teachers, the program annually 
awards 1000 fellowships for first 
year graduate study at any uni
versity of the recipients choice in 
the United States or Canada. Can
didates are elected only after rig
orous screening and personal in
terviews by one of fifteen regional 
committees of educators. Each 
elected fellow receives a $1500 
stipend for living expenses plus 
full tuition and family allow
ances.
The program is open to college 
graduates mainly in the humani
ties and social sciences, however 
candidates in the natural sciences 
are also considered. Both men 
and women are eligible, and there 
is no limit on the age of the can
didate or on the number of years 
he may have been out of college. 
Those wbo receive awards are not 
asked to commit themselves to 
college teaching, but merely to
The program, designed to en
courage college seniors of out(Continued on Page 6)

---------------------------------------------------

ex * E: 53NBRWB D3D3N c, SUAYU,AOCT 1L960U2 IZ, nyww
Editorial
A Failing
Education is a word that carries many different connota
tions and an entity that is achieved in more than many ways. 
An educational community, the college community, is divided 
into so many segments of activity that no one term can 
sufficiently describe that community. And the college stu
dent is like a many-sided mirror . . . each facet reflecting a 
different attitude, each angle absorbing a different thought. 
These three things: education, the college community, and 
the college student, when examined separately, are extremely 
different in their basic make-up. Yet in many respects . . .
they are alike. One such likeness exists in similar goals 
toward which all three contribute, which all three en
deavor to sustain, and for which all three exist. One such 
goal is intellectualism. The education offered by the college, 
the curriculum set up for the student, the lectures, the read
ings, the exams, the classroom discussions, are all provided 
for the purpose of giving the student raw material with which 
to learn, The college community strives to make itself 
such that what is learned in the classroom and in the pages 
of books can be applied, can be tested, and can be effected. 
The student comes to college with a desire to learn . . . 
with a need to absorb all ideas and attitudes offered intending 
eventually to choose the attitude that best suits hi*own 
thinking as the one he shall follow.
What is elicited when all three of the above entities 
strive to obtain the somewhat subjective goal of intellectual
ism is the very objective thing called the intellectual at
mosphere of a college campus. This intellectual atmosphere 
should be such that, like a mist, one canot exactly touch it 
but yet cannot exist in it for very long without getting 
thoroughly soaked. Unfortunately . .  unless sufficiently 
protected and sustained . . . this atmosphere can degenerate 
to the point where at best, it can do little more than dampen 
the persons who enter into it. Carnegie Tech is far from that 
point . . . however, when the intellectual atmosphere is 
carried beyond the classroom door by only a few, a real j 
danger exists regarding the existence of the atmosphere.
Attempts
Fortunately, there exist on campus groups which do try j 
to heighten the intellectual atmosphere. To mention a few: j 
ODK and Delta Skull, who are trying to establish informal 
iaculty-student get-togethers, the International Club which j 
weekly picks thought provoking topics upon which one could 
argue all night, the various religious groups whose lectures, j 
panels, and discussions touch upon the basic issues of living i 
in our present society and upon the basic issues of our very j 
existence. However, groups like these are much too few.
It seems a shame that the comment, is made that Fresh- j 
man Camp discussion groups are one of the few opportunities 
for Carnegie Tech students to converse about subjects that 
invite intellectual thought . . . one of the few opportunities 
in four years of college. How often does one find discussions 
in the dormitories which center around anything other than 
local gossip or trivial subjects which invite no more intellec
tual stimulation than a decision concerning coffee, tea, or 
milk? How few are the scattered individuals in the many 
groups on campus who occasionally leave the commonplace 
and indulge in the rarity of intellectual conversation? Will 
the advent of the new Skibo again invite students to spend 
afternoons talking over important things with a cup of coffee 
as impetus to linger? ;
An intellectual atmosphere is essential to an institution 
f higher learning. Carnegie Tech at present, has such an 
atmosphere . . . but how long will it last? And how many 
students are willing to help sustain it?
J.E.N.
CARNEGIE
 TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
eXwcBAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaIOY o6h6z6Ogi
?a4"cBAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa uh 3NBR
.OY,h92 ARN " "g""wiaac.hkU uO,Om
3AU29h,hYl .OYOlU2 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.hUi p6tYAU2
W.,.1 6s9 BAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaau60 vYOs
N'xw BAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaV>h Isgi
3,,h,9OY9 NUxi BAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa|OU VwiO2i6O
oz629w BAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaagw""- .hU2
946eh$2 BAh962 Ta oOC 9gOg6Yl
V0696e2Oze9C BAh962 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa3Ohg HOY2li0L2e
Faculty Appointments 
And Promotions Made
Dr. J. C. Warner has announced 
promotions for four members NT 
the Carnegie College of Fine Arts 
faculty.
Edith W. Skinner and Lawrence 
Carra were raised to the rank of 
Professor and Allen D. Fletcher 
and Maxwell G. Mayo were made 
Associate Professors. Mrs. Skin
ner, Mr. Carra and Mr. Fletcher 
are in the Department of Drama 
while Mr. Mayo teaches in the 
Department of Architecture.
Mrs. Skinner is a graduate of 
the Leland Powers School and 
received her B.S. and M.A. de
grees from Columia University, 
She joined the Carnegie faculty 
in 1937 and has also taught at 
the New York Universitys School 
of Education, the Columbia Uni
versity Extension and in 1957 was 
an Assistant to Margaret Prendergast McLean, recognized as the 
leading speech expert in the 
United States.
Mr. Fletcher
Mr. Carra joined the Carnegie 
Tech faculty in 1946. He received 
his B.A. degree from Harvard 
University and his M.F.A. from 
Yale. He has served on the fac
ulties of Northwestern Univer
sity, Harvard University, Frances 
Shinier College, the University of 
Texas, and Stanford University. 
In addition Mr. Carra has direct
ed the Music Circus in Cohassett, 
Mass. for several summer seasons 
and the Melody Tent in Pitts
burgh last Summer. He also di
rected the Off-Broadway produc
tion of Leave It To Jane which 
opened May, 1959 and is still run
ning in New York.
Mr. Fletcher received his B.A. 
and M.A. degrees from Stanford 
University and has been at Car
negie since 1952. He served for 
four years as an Instructor in 
Dramatics and Speech at Purdue 
University and for many sum
mers has been Director of the 
Oregon Shakespeare Festival in 
Ashland, Oregon, and the San 
Diego Shakespearean Festival.
Mr. Mayo has been at Carnegie 
Tech since 1951. He received his
A.B. and M.F.A. degrees from 
Princeton University and was em
ployed by Meyers, Krider and Ellenberger, Co. as a Draftsman and 
Designer. In addition to his new 
position as Associate Professor, 
Mr. Mayo will also serve as As
sistant to the Head of the Depart
ment of Architecture.
Dr. Warner has also announced 
promotions to full Professor for 
three members of the College of 
Engineering and Science faculty.-
The new Professors are Alan J-. 
Perlis, Mathematics; Thomas E. 
Stelson, Electrical Engineering; 
and Lincoln Wolfenstein, Physics.
Dr. Perlis joined the Carnegie 
Tech faculty in 1956 as Director 
of the Computation Centner and 
Associate Professor of Mathe
matics. He received his B.S. de
gree from Carnegie.- Tech and his 
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology. Prior to joining the Car
negie faculty. Dr. Perlis served 
as a Research Mathematician, 
Project WThirlwind, at M.I.T. and 
as Heal of the Computing Labora
tory at Purdue University. Last 
year, Dr. Perlis was one of five 
American computer experts chos
en to coordinate and conduct a 
symposium at the First Interna
tional Congerence on Information 
Processing held in Prris.
Dr. Stelson
Dr. Stelson received his B.S., 
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Car
negie Institute of Technology and 
joined the Carnegie faculty upon 
completion of his graduate study. 
In the summers of i949-50, Dr. 
Stelson was engaged in research 
in Fluids Mechanics for the Bab
cock and .Wilcox Company and in 
the following year did research in 
the same field at Carnegie Tech. 
He has published articles in many 
journals including The Journal of 
the American Constrete Institute 
and the Ptoceedings of the Amer
ican Society of Civil Engineers. 
Dr. Stelson is also Head of the 
Department of Civil Engineering 
at Carnegie.
dWOQWLS bLwUW
The Thistle
An article in the Tartan late last spring reported that 
work on the 1960 Thistle had been progressing smopthly 
and that the yearbook was to be published according to 
schedule. Further, there was to be no reduction in the
coverage accorded any aspect of#---- ------------- *
campus life, and the Thistle was 
also to be financially self-sustain
ing. In fact, Tech students were
promised one of the better annuals 
ever published at the school, and 
all this was to be achieved despite 
a reorganization of the staff in the 
middle of the school year.
Unfortunately, all of this was 
not achieved. The book did not 
appear when promised. And its 
scope was narrowed somewhat, 
although this will not be notice
able.
Failure
Why were these promises not 'checked all the details of print-kept? One reason is the effect that 
reorganization had on the staff 
and its work. This occurred be
tween semester when work Was 
temporarily slowing anyway be
cause of approaching exams and 
spring registration, and it pro
vided an opportunity for those 
who had no real desire for work
ing to quit unobtrusively. It may 
safely be assumed that those who 
left would have made no substan
tial contribution anyway, but the 
burden on those who stayed was 
increased nonetheless. Another 
safe assumption is that those who 
stayed were the ones who would 
have done their jobs despite the 
adverse circumstances. But who 
could expect these loyal workers, 
many of whom were quite active 
in other groups, to do the work of 
two or three people?
Most of the work was com
pleted, however, and the Thistle 
did not suffer nearly so much as 
it might have. It would have been 
less risky, financially speaking, 
and certainly easier for everyone 
concerned to suspend publication 
of the 1960 yearbook, but the re
maining staff chose to continue 
working. One woman completed 
the entire sports section, a task 
usually divided between two men. 
Two others completed the organi
zations pages despite an almost 
complete lack of cooperation from 
student groups. The senior sec
tion included more students that
it should have because the e;v>e 
staff delayed production several 
weeks to permit lackadaisical sen
iors to be photographed. And the 
prospect of a money-losing book 
was greatly diminished by one 
student who did the work of an 
entire advertising sales staff. De
spite the efforts of people like 
these, the Thistle still would not 
have been finished were it nott-jwr 
one student who worked through
out the summer completing .fifty 
percent of the layout and another 
who read all the proofs and
ing a yearbook. MISSED DEAD
LINES AND REDUCED COVER
AGE MUST BE EXPECTED 
WHEN SO FEW MUST DO SO 
MUCH.
Success
But the Thistle did not bi k 
all its promises. It is the only 
campus publication that supported 
itself last year, although only twothirds as many books were sold as 
should have been. Those who did 
buy a yearbook will get one of 
the best looking college annuals 
they will ever see.
Why the Thistle was not better 
received will probably never be 
known. Perhaps the adverse pub
licity surrounding the reorganisa
tion held many people to think 
there would be no book. Or apa
thy might have been the reason 
for this situation, tooit seems to 
be a good enough rationalization 
for every other campus failure. 
The one positive statement to be 
made, however, is that the staff 
need not apologize for its efforts.
Support Needed
Such an unfortunate set of cir
cumstances can hardly arise ag  
but the student body can share 
very little of any success that last 
years book, might enjoy. And if 
the 1961 Thistle is supported no 
better, Carnegie Tech does not de
serve to have a yearbook. 
Respectfully,
KIM KING,
Editor of 1960 Thistle.
Scotch n Soda 61 In 
Bright New Location
In accordance with its New Concept of organization, 
Scotch n Soda has* initiated a volume of new changes, not 
the least of which.is its return to Carnegie Music Hall for 
this years production, ANIMATION. Since 1950, Carnegie
Techs annual musical has play-#-----------------------
ed its show in the mens gym,
; which, thanks to countless hours 
of work, became a theatremake
shift, but ingenious.
This year the cast and crews 
will find themselves in a muchchanged and essentially new camB,S activity. With the proscenium 
stage, the actors will experience 
a new kind of blocking, the de
signers can accomplish delightful 
and clever effects, the lighting 
crews can concentrate on artistry, 
since they need spend less time 
on construction.
Design
The cast will discover the ela
tion of playing in a hall that is 
j acoustically well designed. The or| chestra can play happily, kn'ow- i ing it is in keeping with cast ef! one total effect. The players too, 
j forts and is blending to produce 
j shall have a true incentive to give 
: a splendid performance. The name 
j of Carnegie Music Hall, added to 
the prestige of other performers 
| who have played there should 
I make is doubly difficult to have 
! no response to the nightly crowd 
| of 1800.
Impression
; Outside the club, too, the name 
Music Hall is known. While it 
J is impressive to Carnegie Tech
students, it can be no less to ti& 
Faculty and Administration.  a 
desirable quality for any student 
organization. Then, too, will the 
alumni have cause to be proud, 
and serve to add to the atten
dance.
Not only Scotsmen, however, 
shall feel the innovation  for 
Pittsburgh residents and mer
chants will be contacted and u > 
ed to attend one of the three per
formances. In addition to stretch
ing ticket sales, Scotch n Sodas 
move will, no doubt, arouse con
siderable interest in the profes
sional areas of drama, including 
critics, newsmen, actors, produc
ers, writers, et al. Finally, in light 
of the national interest lately 
shown in college musicals, there 
is no reason why an outstanding 
year for Scotch n Soda she 'd 
not win acclaim throughout the 
nation.

---------------------------------------------------

SUAYU,AOCT 1L960U2 niT nyfK E 53NBRWB D3D3N E DOOi -
If you are completing studies in engineering, economics, math, 
science or business, have maintained high averages and are 
Interested in a rewarding professional career leading to man
agement, IBM Systems Engineering may be just the career 
for you.
What does an IBM Systems Engineer do? He studies problems 
in industry, science, business and government, and then or
ganizes the most modern electronic data processing tech
niques and machine systems to solve them. He works at the 
aource and with top executives in the organizations concerned. 
The problems are fascinating and excitingand include auto
mation of: process control and manufacturing operations, 
Inventory control document preparation, satellite tracking,
highway planning, weather forecasting, and complete business 
control systems for utilities, transportation, banking and in
surance, to name but a few. New techniques of automatic data 
processing are making headline news almost daily.
Your present training, combined with one of the most compre
hensive training programs conducted by any company, may 
put you in a position to join this fast-growing new profession 
with virtually an unlimited future. Openings will exist in all 
principal U.S. cities. See your Placement Director for addi
tional information about IBM and to arrange for an interview. 
Or feel free to write or call me:
Mr. R. W. Paulin, Branch Manager, IBM Corp., 
421 Seventh Avenue, Pittsburgh 19, Pa., CO 1-6880
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company
[continued TLNu BORW .?1 
the Music Guild of Pittsburgh pre
sents Mantovani and his orchestra 
in a concert of his new music.
Jazz
The jazz admirers can find 
plenty of good listening in the 
Pittsburgh area this week. Gerry 
Mulligan and the Concert Jazz 
Band, with guest artist Jack 
Zoot Sims, will play in Syria 
Mosque Thursday, October 13 at 
8:30 p.m. (There will only be one 
show.) On Saturday afternoon, 
October 15, at 2:00 p.m., Roy Eldrige will participate in a jazz 
session at the Chateau. The Cha
teau is at 3652 Liberty Road, 
Route 88. Then fnnally, next Wed
nesday night, October 18 
the Dave Brubeck Quai 
play in Carnegie Music 
Oakland.
THE 
GROUP 
PICTURE
It has been said that Carnegie Tech is lacking in school 
spirit. However, this saying becomes more and more a thing 
of the past due to the effort of Carnegies Kiltie Pipers. This 
unique group, one of the few existing in the country, is one
reason why spirit is increasing at#----------------------
football games and pep rallies, have been. 
vliOmplete with authentic uniforms, 
the Pipers are reknowned for 
their high-kicking ~an-can danc
ing and their own brand of humor 
during cheers. However, their per
sonality only adds to the fame of 
the Tech Pipers nationally. They 
have come to be associated with 
Tech in much the same statusfashion as the football team of 
the twenties and thirties must
Director
The group is directed by Mr. 
Lewis Davidson. Bill McLay, pipe 
major, heads the group of four
teen pipers and four drummers. 
In association with the Kiltie 
Band, the Pipers are the lead sec
tion when the band starts across 
the field during half-time shows.
The pipers perform at all Tech 
coNMUwM,WQ NM BORW 81
Dramatic Arts4 #a E h
Center
One of the most outstanding 
new developments on Techs 
campus will be the Dramatic Arts 
Center. As it now stands, the Car
negie Drama department is tops 
in its field; however, the facilities 
of the renowned department are 
not as excellent as its reputation, j 
The new Dramatic Arts Center j 
will not only remedy. the lack of 
facilities, but it will also provide 
new opportunities that are not 
now possible within the present 
department.
When established, the Dramatic 
Arts Center will be equal in area 
with all other drama schools in 
the nation. Done in modern decor, 
the building will include a the
atre, rehearsal rooms, classrooms, 
construction areas, and back stage 
facilities. The increase in size will 
permit larger audiences at per
formances and joint productions 
with the Musical Center.
CURTAIN GOING UP!
By J. D. Scaliger
Two Film Greats
Because nothing has yet publicly crossed the boards 
at the Drama Department as of this writing, this weeks 
column will deal with the first two Offerings of Film Arts. 
These vary widely, but meet on the common ground of
superior quality. ?---------------------*
The first of these was The the gang), and the half-witted
Ladykillers, which was shown on 
the twenty-ninth of September. 
The film as a whole was a master
piece of satire on melodramatic 
themes, characters and devices. 
The professors crew of thieves 
managed to package into five peo
ple all of the types most fam
iliar in both British and Amer
ican crime literature and films: 
Louie, the icy professional killer; 
the Mad Professor (the brains of
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING CAN START HERE. OR HERE... OR HERE... OR HERE OR HERE. OR HERE
Muscle man wore all present and 
accounted for.
Award
The late Katie Johnson certain
ly deserved the British Academy 
Award for her performance as the 
just slightly dotty, tea-serving old 
lady:
The genius of Alec Guiness 
performance is a matter of course. 
Merely let it be said that this was 
one of his finest characterizations 
filled with meticulous detail work 
in the height of comedy, and yet 
absolutely right wTithin the framer 
work of the story.
Mastcrpicre
The other masterpiece up for 
discussion here is The Seventh 
Seal, an earlier product of that 
powerful and dextrous weaver of 
plot and wielder of symbols, Ing
mar Bergman.
The technical mastery of Berg
man in his scripting and direction 
of The Seventh Seal is beyond 
question. In my opinion, it is his 
most powerful and universal film. 
It is replete with evidences of di
rectorial inspiration if for genius.
The scene, for instance, when 
the air of medieval peasant sim
plicity, earthiness and mirth at the 
performance of the strolling play
ers is shattered by the entrance 
of the pentinentg, chanting the 
Dies Orae, and torturing them
selves in hope of ridding Sweden 
of the Black Plague.
There is also the nightmare ride 
through the plague-haunted forest, 
punctuated by the burning of a
I half-crazed girl, convinced by her 
i tormentors that she must indeed 
j be a witch.
Variety
There is also tremendous inter
est in the variety among the cen
tral characters. The Knight: ques
tioning, searching for the reason 
for existence. The Squire: the 
disillusioned atheist who has long 
since abandoned his search for 
God with disgust. Joseph and 
Mary, the strolling players who 
live from day to day in childlike 
simplicity, who do not search, and 
through this cheat Death.
How well these characters re
flect the various ways in which 
one can behave in the face of 
death. The Bubonic Plague in 
Medieval times, the threat of nu
clear war in our own. And Berg
man points the way to peace. I 
hope that this age does not, like 
the Knights, find this answer too 
late It is simply this: stop search
ing  just live!
Calendar

---------------------------------------------------

Pee 6  CARNJEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 12, 19$#
Roving Reporter
Are Tech Engineers 
Really Educated?
Question: Based on your definition of education, is the 
engineering graduate of C.I.T. really educated or does he 
rank a poor second to Liberal Arts grads?
Mary Lou Harmon, Junior,------------ 1
Chemistry, The engineering grad
uate of C.I.T., I feel, has an edu
cation on an equal, if not higher
level, than a Liberal Arts gradu
ate. He is better able to cope 
with and compete in the world with 
the good technical background he 
has obtained, in addition to the 
basic knowledge of the social and 
economic sciences which he has 
also received.
Richard S. Pressman, Junior, 
Printing Management, On what 
basis? The two classifications are 
too widely divergent to be readily 
ompared.
Victor Dobras, Sophomore, E.E., 
On the contrary, I think the Lib
eral Arts grad comes closer to 
ranking a poor second. The ma
jor emphasis is on engineering 
since Tech is primarily a technical 
school, and one of the finest in the 
country. If either of the groups is 
second rate, I would say that the 
Liberal Arts student here might 
rank second to a student in a pri
marily Liberal Arts school.
Bev Patton, Senior, Music, This 
answer depends entirely on one's 
definition of education. The two 
points of view here are: that the 
student should specialize to 
achieve heights in his field, or that 
he should acquire a broad view of 
all fields in order to gain a per
spective on his life. The argu
ment in favor of each are so perti
nent that I believe both engineers 
and liberal arts majors may take 
their place among The Educated. 
Jeff Robbins, Junior, Mech. E., 
I believe a Tech engineering grad
is well prepared to start learning 
engineering from the company hes 
lucky enough to get a job with. 
As far as being a poor second to 
the liberal arts students, there is 
no basis for comparison since the 
engineer is directly opposite from 
Maggie-Murphs and P&Ds  and 
in more ways than one.
Tom Crooks, Sophomore, Mech. 
E., Although the engineering stu
dent receives excellent training in 
engineering-type thinking, he is 
not getting a good liberal educa
tion. This education, however, is 
available here in a very fine form, 
but the engineering student has to 
work hard afid stay alert to get 
it.
Biir Stratton, Sophomore, Mech. 
E., I think Tech engineers are 
well educated but feel they should 
have more courses in liberal arts 
that are unrelated to engineering 
itself.
Howard Schopman, Sub Senior, 
Arch., When comparing the edu
cation of an engineer with that of 
a liberal arts major, one must 
realize that most liberal arts stu
dents will continue their educa
tion by specializing at some pro
fessional graduate school. The en
gineering student receives both 
his liberal and specialized educa
tion whil^ pnly attending a four 
year undergraduate program. It 
is quite apparent which student 
receives the better liberal educa
tion. Only by increasing his cur
riculum, will the engineer be able 
to keep pace with the other pro
fessions.
Engineers and scientists who have or 
will achieve M.S., Professional or Doctors 
degrees by January or June of 1961 are 
invited to ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
with Mr. C. C. LaVene, Staff Assistant 
to Vice-President Engineering of the 
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY on
FRIDAY. OCT. 28
Americas most exciting space and defense proj
ects, including SATURN, SKYBOLT and 
MISSILEER and others of like importance 
have created outstanding long range opportuni
ties at Douglas in the following fields:
Electrical
Electronics
Mechanical
Chemical
Aeronautical
Metallurgical
Welding 
Engineering Mechanics
Physics 
Mathematics 
Astronomy 
Astro-Physics
Openings exist at Douglas locations in Santa 
Monica and El Segundo, California and Char
lotte, North Carolina.
If you are a U.S. citizen who will earn a 
qualifying degree, please contact your place
ment office for an appointment. If unable to do 
so, write to Mr. C. C. LaVene,
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INC.
3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
Cindy Scott, Senior, P&D, It 
all depends on the individual 
some engineers'are walking calcu
lating machines, while others are 
well-rounded personalities.
Bob Marik. Grad, Cl.em., E., 
Let us define the term edu
cated as having developed the 
mind to appreciate knowledge 
and having acquired, the mental 
discipline to learn effectively. In 
this sense. I feel there is no dif
ference between a Tech engineer
ing graduate and a liberal arts 
student of comparable ability. 
Each has been trained in the 
learning process and has been ex
posed to a relatively shallow sur
vey of several areas of knowledge. 
One must be careful not to define 
education as proficiency in lib
eral arts fields, for science and 
technology are every bit as im
portant an area of human knowl
edge.
Wilson - -
[continued TLNu BORW 3] 
standing ability to study for ad
vanced degrees with faculty jobs 
consider it seriously as a pos
sible career.
Scholarships are administered by 
the Woodrow Wilson National Fel
lowship Foundation under a $24,- 
500,000 five year grant from the 
Ford Foundation.
Dr. Hans Rosenhaupt, National 
Director of the Wilson Fellowship 
Foundation, in an analysis of the 
past years activities, reported that 
the highly selected grants have 
been awarded to graduates from 
560 different colleges. This is con
vincing proof that many colleges 
throughout the country, not only 
the ffew well-known ones, offer 
high quality education. Almost 90
CAMPUS
PERSONALITY
 FP President
A smoker of Mixture 79, Paul Farrell keeps fourteen 
pipes in the rack above his desk in the Phi Kappa Theta 
house. Now a sub-senior architect, Paul was elected presi
dent of that house in his sophomore year. Last December
and again this April he was elect-? --------
ed president of the Council of
Fraternity Presidents.
Monday is Pauls busy day of 
the week, for three meetings 
which he attends are aften sched
uled that day. 4:30 finds him at 
meetings of the Executive Coun
cil of Student Congress; 7:00 finds 
him at Phi Kapa Theta meetings; 
and 10:00 finds him presiding over 
sessions of C.F.P. ,
Paul graduated from high school 
in Kane, The Ice Box of Penn
sylvania. He was active in foot
ball, track, and wrestling, and 
was a member of the National 
Honor Society. He served four 
years in the U.S. Marine Corps
per cent of all the 1000 Fellows in 
1959-60 continued study after the 
first year, and more than 75 per 
cent of all Fellows eventually end 
up in academic positions. Of the 
nominated candidates who failed 
to win Woodrow Wilson Fellow
ships more than 80 per cent, Dr. 
Rosenhaupt said, went on to grad
uate school anyway, often with 
financial help from other sources.
as staff sergeant, spending one 
year in Korea and seeing Hong 
Kong, Japan, and Panama.
Activities
At Tech, hes a member of thO 
Newman Club, plays volleyball 
and pushed buggy for his house in 
Spring Carnival. Holder of a Car
negie Scholarship, Paul plans to 
become an educational admini
strator or teach architecture after 
graduation.
He is also a dancing enthusiast 
and leads a full social life. A 
citation hanging in his room waQ 
presented to Paul last March by 
the presidents of two campus fra
ternities for his valiant attempt 
at attending all parties held under 
our auspices.
Return to Rhyme
HOMECOMING 1960
The best tobacco makes the best smoke!
R. UE Reynold* Tobcc* Co.. WUwIoq-3). N. 0.

---------------------------------------------------

SUAYU,AOCT 1L960U2 nMT nyww E 53NBRWB D3D3N E VOlU b
Evening Student Council met on October 2, in Admini
stration Hall to formulate plans for events in the immediate 
future. The two socials under immediate consideration were 
the Monte-Carlo night and the Buffet Dinner Dance scheduled 
for November 26. Social Chair
man, Dennis De Stefano, re
ported that the Monte-Carlo 
will proceed as scheduled for 
October 29, at Thistle Hall with 
use of the Black Cat Lounge. 
The Buffet Dinner Dance was 
'fanned to be held in the Mona 
^isa Lounge. Since this is not 
available for the date scheduled, 
other arrangements will be made. 
Time and place will be announced 
later in the Plaid,
Appointment 
Upon the return of Eleanor 
Iwinski to Council, appointment 
was made to reinstate her as CoEditor of the Plaid in place of
Victor Sabol. Eleanor was also 
assigned to the committee consid
ering an additional separate pub
lication for evening school. This 
committee now includes Russel 
Orme and Mary Alice Peterson. 
Victor Sabol was assigned respon
sibility for the Christmas Assem
bly Program.
Potential members attending 
the October 2nd meeting included 
John Hicks, Mary 01WiOs and 
Brenda Imber.
The next meeting of Council 
will not be a family-social meet
ing as scheduled as facilities at 
Skibo are not yet available for 
planning in advance. Therefore, 
the regular meeting of Council 
will be held on Sunday, Novem
ber 6, at 2 p.m. in the Adminis
tration Hall, 2nd Floor Study 
Room, which has been used as 
temporary headquarters. Inter
ested students are invited to atMonte Carlo Night 
To Be October 29
The annual Montc-Carlo night 
sponsored by Evening Student 
Council is scheduled for October 
29, .at Thistle Hall. Tickets are on 
sale in Mr. McKelways office at 
75c per person. They may also be 
obtained from any Council mem
ber. Evening students are urged 
to come and bring their friends. 
The invitation is also extended to 
day school students to join in an 
evening of gambling (with stage 
money, of course) and dancing. 
Refreshments will be served in 
the Black Cat Lounte.
At the conclusion of the eve
ning a White Elephant Auction 
will be held and in addition a 
door prize vyill be given which 
will consist of two tickets to the 
next social sponsored by Council, 
namely, the annual Buffet Dinner 
Dance. Monte-Carlo Night prom
ises to be an evening of fun and 
fellowship for all those who at
tend.
Panel of AmericansI AInvites New Members
One of the very active Tech organizations is the Panel 
i of Americans. These twenty members, well-versed in the art 
of public speaking and debate, frequently lead off-campus 
'discussion groups for Parent-Teacher Associations, womens 
clubs, religious groups, businessmens organizations, Y-teen 
groups, and many young-peoples organizations. Their topics 
of discussion range from Intergroup Tensions to Housing 
Problems. They are restricted in no way as to subject matter 
in the field of human relations, although current moot 
questions are generally discussed.
A Panel of Americans team'*' 
consists of five student speakers
Roman Catholic, Negro, Jewish,
| Protestant, and first-or secondgeneration Americanwho go out 
* by invitation to campus and comj munity groups to discuss the prob
lems and opportunities arising 
j from their respective differences, 
and to answer audience questions 
on these issues. Audiences vary 
from adult civic groups, church 
groups, womens organizations and 
PTAs to college and high school 
assemblies and organizations of 
youth.
Purpose
The purpose of the Panel of 
Americans is to bring people of 
varying racial, religious, and cul
tural backgrounds together to ex
amine themselves, their differ
ences and similarities as Ameri
cans. The Panels primary aim is
to stimulate people to think and 
to open a door of communication 
with each other.
Undergoing a thorough training 
program is a requisite to a speak
ing member of the Panel. The 
trainees meet for a one-hour ses
sion weekly during a four or five 
week period. After this training, 
the members are ready to apply 
their skills before audiences.
Faculty Advisors
Assisting the Panel in its pro
grams and discussions are the fac
ulty advisorsDr. Steinberg, Dr. 
Sochatoff, Dr. Strick, Dean Swank, 
and Dr. Fentonall of whom have 
been of invaluable aid in develop
ing the organization.
The Panel of Americans is open 
to all Tech students who OLW in
terested in the people and world 
around them. Potential members 
and interested students may con
tact any of the faculty members 
or the Panels president, Edward 
Blum. The Panels campus ad
dress is Box 415, c/o Campus 
Mail.
When questioned as to the bene
fits derived from the organization, 
several Panel members stated, 
Learning how to approach sub
jects open-mindedly and under
standing how to deal with peo
ple are the immeasurable vslues 
that the Panel of Americans offer 
and develop.
Steve finds living in this mountainous area ideal for the pursuit 
of his main hobby, hunting. His equipment includes two rifles 
and two shotguns in prime condition and he enjoys exciting 
off-hours sport bagging wild turkeys, pheasants and rabbits 
In the forests near his home.
Another hobby, photography, fits right into his work schedule. 
At right, above, he is seen at the window of his trailer lab (which, incidentally, overlooks his home in the valley) taking 
pictures with a telephoto lens of the conductor and structures on the EHV line. These photos are used as masters on 
which he superimposes time shots of lightning strokes at 
night to obtain a record.
1OSalOYpC Eleven months after starting with his company and shortly after completing the cadet 
training program, Steve was selected to participate 
in a research project at General Electric Companys 
High Voltage Laboratory in Pittsfield, Mass. Here 
he is. seen at the G.E. lab where he helped develop 
instruments to measure lightning current.
a
Swinglinestapler
no bigger 
than a pack 
gum!
Swingline Cub stapler,$1.29
.?,rMB5UY1 ino.
jLon* City Nw *, N VJ
At one of the two 460,000-volt line structures near 
his laboratory-equipped trailer headquarters, Steve checks the operation of a Une surge oscillo
scope which automatically takes pictures of the 
wave shape of lightning strokes as they occur near 
the line. In addition to the lightning protection 
study, his work includes field research into radio 
influence of extra-high voltage and corona loss, and 
a study of vibration characteristics of the conductor.
AT1U 2960a6nUy in all fields will find inter
esting and rewarding jobs with Pennsylvanias 
progressive electric utilities. Get in touch with 
company representatives or write us for in
formation: P.E.A., State Street Building, 
H[arrisburg, Pa.
PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC 
ASSOCIATION
?3 3MQWBWMQWMU oNuBOMwWS xLNiwQwMR xNrWL 
TNL xWMMSm1iOMwOAk xLNRLqSA
,/v.
i
Including 1000 Staples
A do-it-yourself kit in the palm of 
your hand! Unconditionally guar: 
j anteed, Tot makes book covers, 
j fastens papers, does arts and 
i crafts work, mends, tacks...no end 
] of uses!
Buy it at your college book stored
What more could a budding research engineer want? Steve 
Polaski, B.S. in electrical engineering, January, 1959, starts 
out for his days work enthusiastically, with a cheerful send- off from his charming young wife. The car and infant son are 
both 1960 models, the pleasant new home is in the heart of the 
Allegheny Mountains . . . OMQ UaW .Nl wS S,BWLiwSNL NT UaW TwW1Q 
BNLUwNM NT OM W8UWMSwiW LWSWOLYa OMQ QWiW1NBuWMU BLNRLOu TNL UaW 
TwLSU P-FsFFFyiN1U W1WYULwY ULOMSuwSSwNM 1wMW wM UaW tMwUWQ ?UOUWSE
A59 GRADS INTERESTING JOB 
with a Pennsylvania 
UTILITY

---------------------------------------------------

jO,U i E 53NBRWB D3D3N E SUAYU,AOCT 1L960U2 1% W.W
evoM n
IM Football Enters Second Week 
Grads, Dragons, SN, DU Lead
IM football began last week, with four games being* 
plaj'ed in each league.
The top-seeded Met Grads seem to be out to regain their 
campus championship, having already won two games with
relative ease. Obelisk dropped its* 
only game so far to MG, and the
Delts were defeated, 35-6, Quar
terback Murphy did most of the 
scoring for the Grads.
Second-p lace TDP soundly 
trounced TX, 47-6. A1 Wolfson 
scored four touchdowns for TDP, 
three of them on returns of inter
cepted passes. The Delts also beat 
TX. 22-8. Both of the undefeated 
teams are idle next week.
In the Giants league, the 
Dragons are off to an early lead, 
having beaten both the Obelisk 
Tartans and KS without great 
difficulty. Scoring almost at will 
in the first quarter, the Dragons 
led OT 20-0 after the first period, 
and went on to win, 30-8. Against 
KS, Clark and Connel each scored 
once as the Dragons won 15-5. 
Sigma Nu
Sigma Nu also remained un
beaten with an easy win over SAE 
P, 33-0. But after a four-day
rest, SAE P came back to hand 
the Obelisk Tartans their second 
defeat, 16-10. Ross threw TD 
passes to Carlson and Jaffee for 
SAE. Next weeks action will fea
ture KS in two games, with the 
Dragons and SN idle.
Three strong contenders will vie 
for the league crown in the 
Eagles League, ATO, having out
lasted PKT, 20-15, must be given 
the Inside track. In one of the 
better games of the week, Paul 
Debski led a Phi Kap comeback 
by blocking a punt and scoiing a 
safety, giving his team two points 
and the ball. But the ATO defense 
proved equal to the task, and time 
ran out with no further scoring. 
ATO had an easier time in their 
first game, defeating BSP 30-6.
PiKA had an easy time defeat
ing an undermanned Newman 
Club team, 24-0. NC played with 
only five men, and was no match 
for the powerful PKA offense, led
Oberlin Downs Tartans 
With Score of 21-6
After surging into the lead in the second quarter, Tech 
lost their second game of the season Saturday to an inspired 
Oberlin squad, 21-6.
The Tartans touchdown climaxed an 87 yard drive led
by quarterback Pete Bouxein. ? ------------------
Bouxein scored on a sneak play
by quarterback Bill Hall. Hall 
threw three TD passes, two of 
them to end Jim Jubinski. The 
PKA shock troops finished the
game.
Final Game
In the final game, BSP beat 
Newman Club, 10-7. The highlight 
of the game was a Brotman to 
Rosen pass for a Beta Sig TD.
The Bears league, as promised, 
is full of surprises. One surprise 
saw SAE G lose to DU, 9-5, 
after an impressive win over the 
Coogars. The SAE defense just 
couldnt get rolling, as pass after 
pass fell incomplete. The DUs, 
led by quarterback Jerry Kosko, 
might turns out to be the biggest 
surprise of all.
After their initial 37-8 loss to 
SAE, the Coogars evened up their 
record by knocking off the Tigers, 
913. The Coogars have rangy ends 
and hard-hitting halfbacks, and 
suffer mainly from inexperience.
In their only appearance so far, 
the Vulcans ran over the Tigers, 
35-1. Bob Brown and Gary Adams 
each scored twice for the winners.
SAE, Phi Kaps 
Lead Tennis Play
Tennis, for the first time an in
tramural sport, saw action in both 
leagues last week.
In the Trabert League 
off to a good start by beating 
as Marv Buban swept John Weyer 
6-0, 6-0 and Bill Carlson beat Bill 
Timberlake 6-2, 6-1. Beta Sig 
to a strong Freshman team led by
Harriers Down Grove City, 
Niedra Stars for Tartans
Coach Carl Olsons harriers will# 
travel to Slippery Rock tomorrow 
afternoon for a meet which the 
hosts are heavily favored to win. 
Besides having a tremendous 
home course advantage, the Rock
ets also have Dick Shirey and 
Angie Gioscia, who are two of the 
finest runners in the area;.
Tech split a pair of very close 
duels last week end, winning Sat
urday at Grove City 27-28 after 
a 29-27 loss to Geneva on Thurs
day.
Victor
Freshman Andrew Niedra was 
the victor in both races. He outkicked Jim Wilson by four sec
onds to win in 22:18 in his home 
town of Beaver Falls, and was 
ahead all the way with a time of 
23:11 at Grove City.
Ed Barvick, Glenn Klepac, and 
Frank Moran placed fourth, 'fifth 
and eighth respectively in 
meets, but Tom Bednarz improved 
from eleventh against the Covies 
to ninth against the Grovers. This 
meant the difference between a 
close loss in one meet and an 
even narrower margin of victory 
in the other.
The harriers are hoping to im
prove their record when they face 
Duquesne at noon this Saturday 
in Schenley Park.
PiperscYNMUwM,WQ TLNu BORW 5] 
games and pep rallies. They 
also give five band concerts 
per year, and perform at Hon*, 
coming, Spring Carnival and 
essentially all dedications and 
other official ceremonies on cam
pus. Last Tuesday, the Pipers re
ceived national coverage when 
they took part in the Pirate Pep 
Rally. They may be seen practic
ing afternoons in front of Fine 
Arts, and on inclement days in 
Thistle Hall. >
Freshmen are reminded that be
ginners training for the corps v* 
begin tomorrow, October 13, un
der the direction of Mr. Davidson.
History
The Kiltie Pipers have been as" with the Kiltie band since 
organization first started in 
1908. The present uniforms of the 
Pipers and the Kiltie Band mem
bers were introduced in 1922. The 
one difference that exists in 
uniforms between the 
the Pipers is that only the 
are allowed to wear 
their caps, ... a distinction 
only serves to better praise 
merits of this fine group of Tech 
students.
Pete Rzasnicki early last week, 
but went on to beat PiKA on Sun
day as Dick Gerson beat Chuck 
Shatvet 6-1 and Mark Weitzman 
beat Bill Hall in an exciting match
Hoad Leagues only match 
Phi Kaps John Adams 
in a 2-0 victory over DTD. 
Action continues in both leagues 
this week.
from the thre yard line, but Fur
man Smith failed to complete the 
conversion. The lead didnt last 
long. Freshman Jack McCaslin 
raced 90 yards on the kickoff play 
for the Yeomans first TD and a 
successful conversion made it 7-6. 
Oberlin scored again in the sec
ond quarter to take a half-time 
lead of 14-6.
Tech never got back in the ball 
game. The Yoeman led in rushing 
204 to 94 yards and gained 15 first 
downs to the Plaids 6. The brunt 
of Techs attack was bom in the 
airways, but only 9 of 24 passes 
were completed for a total of 74 
yards. The sparkling play of 
Smith, Bouxein and Marty Poad 
which characterized other Tech 
attacks was lacking in the con
test.
Final TD
Oberlin scored again in the 
fourth quarter on a 24 yard pass 
from Jack Conin to end John 
Erickson for the final TD. Alan 
Spiegelberg completed the placekick to make the score 21-6.
Late in the game the Yoeman 
tried two field goals but both 
failed.
Next week the Tartans hope to 
even their season record at 2-2 
with a victory at Grove City,
HOME FOOTBALL GAMES 
Home Football Games are 
as follows:
Saturday, October 22Ro
chester 2:00 p.m. (Home
coming).
Saturday, October 29Ge
neva1:30 p.m.
Saturday, November 5  
Washington and Lee 1:30 
p.m.
Admission to games Is free, 
upon presentation of your I.D. 
Card. Your card is NOT 
transferable to anyone else.
Intoxicating beverages will 
NOT be permitted at the 
games. It will not be permiss
ible to rope off sections for 
special groups
Tried
Regular
Filter
Cigarettes?Tried 
Other 
Menthol 
Cigarettes?
NOW! Come Up... All The Way Up to the MENTHOL MAGIC
of KOOL!
When your taste tells' you 
it's time for a change, j 
remember: Only Kool 
no regular filter cigarette, 
no other menthol cigarette 
gives you real Menthol Magic!
mo. mown & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATIONTHE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
galleys of ancient Egypt...and 
with the air and space vehicles of 
the future. Someone must chart its 
course. Someone must MOiwROUW it.
For certain young men this pre
sents a career of real executive 
opportunity. Here, perhaps yeJ 
will have the chance to master a 
profession fuil of meaning, excite
ment and rewards... as a N avigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator train
ing as an Aviation Cadet you must 
be an American citizen between 19 
and 26Ksingle, healthy and in
telligent. A high school diploma is 
required, but some college is high! 
desirable. Successful completion ot 
the training program leads to a 
commission as a Second Lieuten
ant... and your Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it 
takes to measure up to the Avia
tion Cadet Program for Naviga
tor training, see your local Air 
Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail 
this coupon.
There*s a place for tomorrow V leaders on the -w- Aerospace Team. I | ^
Airrorce
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY I
AVIATION CADET INFORMATION . !
DEPT. BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D.C.I* I am between 19 and 26'/2, a citirenof the U. S. and a high school graduate j with_______years of college. PleaseI send me detaile&lnformation on the I| Aviation Cadet program.
NAME.
STREET. 
CITY__
COUNTY