PiKA Shark Leads Buggies 
To Capture Sweepstakes Final
Betas Design Top Carnival Booth, 
Midway Offers Varied Games
Photo by Bill Jackson
Pi Kappa Alpha pushes ahead.
Photo by Mike Allen
Sigma Nu displays their winning design.
In the finals of the Spring Carnival Buggy Races last 
Saturday morning, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity captured the 
first place trophy by beating the Sigma Alpha Epsilon and 
Beta Theta Pi buggies in an exciting, close finish. The PiKAs 
i' Shark had a winning time of 2:31.75. The SAE bike barely 
passed the BTP buggy in the last 100 yds. to finish second in 
2:33.2. BTP, third place winner,?
finished only a second behind in pieting an extraordinary free roll, 
2:34.2.
The three buggies that ran in 
Saturdays finals were the fastest 
three in the preliminary races 
held Friday morning. BTP had the 
fastest time in the prelims with a 
2:34.1. The other times turned in 
on Friday were: PKA 2:34.4, SAE
t 2:34.53, DU 2:36.4, ATO 2:39.8, 
Sigma Nu 2:42.15, PKA 2:44.6, DU 
2:47.2, PKT 2:56.4, Sigma Nu 
2:57.57, and ATO 3:11.45.
Fridays preliminaries turned 
out to be a morning of upsets as 
Alpha Tau Omegas famed 
Goose failed to turn in the top 
performance for the first time in 
five consecutive years. The 
Goose raced in the sixth and 
last heat of the day. After comit spun out of the second to last 
turn on the course. Most everyone 
agreed that ATO was on the way 
to a possible course record, but 
after spinning out the buggy had 
no chance of placing in the top 
three; as the third pusher had to 
run back several hundred feet to 
get the Goose going again. By 
this time all hope of finishing 
with a good time was gone and 
unfortunately the Goose finish
ed in a dismal last in 3:11.45.
The design competition and 
safety inspections were held early 
Friday morning behind the grand
stand. For brake inspection, the 
buggies were placed on a fifteen 
[continued on page 6]
A Beta walks the plank.-Photo by Bill Jackson
Warner Speaks 
To Congress 
On Expansion
At the May 1 meeting of Stu
dent Congress, President Warner 
spoke on CITs potential develop
ment in the next ten years. Dr. 
Warner predicted a bright and 
exciting future for Tech. Even
tually the school will have an en
rollment of 4800, and a faculty 
staff of 455; the per-capita aver
age salary of faculty members 
will be $15,000 and may be as | 
high as $23,000. In addition, there 
will be $11 million more for capi
tal purposes.
With regard to studies made by 
committees composed of depart
ment heads and leading members 
of the administration, a long 
range look at CIT was formu
lated. Goals for all the depart
ments will be acquiring instruc
tors of th first rank, instituting 
research programs, and procuring 
the most able students from a 
wide geographical area. An addi
tional goal of MMCC is 
creased concentration on 
programs; Fine Arts will begin 
work on its Dramatics Arts Cen
ter, improve its library collection, 
and start an intensive funds 
drive; the Department of Engi
neering and Science will attempt 
to double its graduate enrollment 
and procure more space and facil
ities; the Department of Humani
ties and Social Studies will con
tinue work on its high school pro
grams Advanced Placement and 
Projects English and Project 
Social Studies. Dr. Warner 
stated that with these and other 
plans in progress, CIT will re
main a financially independent 
institution, yet will continue to 
undertake government-sponsored 
research.
It is expected that the under
graduate daytime enrollment will 
be equal in ten years to the prestcontinued on page 6]
Dippy Duck 
Rules TheVgly
No matter what you diddunk a Beta, played rat rou
lette or minature golfyou are bound to remember the Mid
way of the 1963 Spring Carnival for a long time. Students, 
faculty, and area residents enjoyed and patronized the frater
nity displays, making this year one of the most successful 
years ever. These people will remember Carnival 63 with its
*--------------------------------------------------------?Phenomenal Phliques themes; how
ever, three fraternities in partic
ular will remember this years 
Carnival because of the trophies 
they earned. Beta Theta Pi's booth
was judged the best on the Mid
way and was awarded the first 
place trophy. Their booth consist
ed of a warship with simulated 
moving water surrounding it. The 
object of the game was to throw 
knives into a porthole in the side 
of the ship which resulted in 
Peter Pan forcing a Captain 
Beta Hook to walk the plank 
into a tub of water.
Delta Upsilon, the second place 
winner, had Steamboat Willie 
as the theme for its booth. Spec
tators eagerly crowded around the 
steamboat and tried to outguess 
the DU rats in a game of 
roulette.
Theta Xi took third place hon
ors with its Alice in Wonder
land display. The game consisted 
of tossing sugar cubes into the 
moving teacups of the characters 
of the Mad Hatters tea party. 
This display was not only colorful 
but also made effective use of an 
ingenious mechanism to move the 
teacups.
Photo by Bill Jackson
Dippy Duck with Ugly Mug.
Dippy Duck of Sigma Nu cap
tured the coveted title of Ugliest 
Man on Campus at the Spring 
Carnival dance, Saturday, May 4. 
This year the UMOC contest, an
nually sponsored by Alpha Phi 
Omega for the benefit of Campus 
Chest, was the most enthusiastic 
campaign even seen at Tech. 
Eighteen candidates, the largest 
group of ugly contestants ever to 
enter the Tech UMCC contest 
waged a colorful campaign and 
wallpapered the campus with 
their ugly slogans. A bake sale 
and slave auction added to the 
fun.
At a penny a vote, a total of 37,- 
{continued on page 6]
Srs. Prepare 
To Graduate
Graduation Kits containing im
portant information about grad
uation, tickets (in case of rain), 
and calendar of events must be 
picked up by candidates from the 
registrars office (Administration 
Hall) during the following hours: 
9 A.M. to Noon and 1 to 4 P.M., 
May 13 thru May 17.
Evening students, contact Mr. 
McKelway after May 13. Com
mencement announcements and 
invitations can be purchased at 
the Bookstore.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNER EAGIEITIR WS IR.AWDWNV
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 26 WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 1963

---------------------------------------------------

Fa*e *  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May *, 1963
Hi-Lo's harmonize.  Photo b* Aron coiions
hotel
WEBSTER 'HALL
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
Belem Carrel! - Nationally known 
Handwriting Analyst Appearing 
Nightly
???????????????????????????????????????????! TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
AC andldAe ithiDl rnDriDk
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
SHOES SHOES StfOES
WALLYS
sTRNEG  ITSUOFHWomen Men
SMART CASUALS HUSH - PUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
RENT NEW CARS... AND SAVE UP TO
SHARI TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NIXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: Other car rental 
companies do not rent to drivers under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR Be tasDignTo apCr
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Across from the Corlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Po.
Phone: UPOannUd
SENIORS and ENGINEERS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
Phenomenal Philiques
btel Weta/ Ud
vvlh ,MdTw Pittsburgh IS, P. 
Tetepkwie; MAyowe 1-7700
Anything for a Beer  Photo by Jim Nichoi
 Photo by Aron CollonsJune Helmers officially opens Carnival.
Carnival Competition Tests 
Team Skills, Endurance
-Photo by Dick GoldmanSkit presentation winners Kappa Alpha Theta.
Three of the most colorful events of Spring Carnival 
Weekend are the faculty egg toss, sorority relays and plank 
jousting.
This year the faculty egg toss was won by the chemistry A team, with a toss of 150 feet. Second place went to the civil 
engineering team, and third to the electrical engineering 
team.
Sorority relays consisted of three events: broom riding 
relay, role race, and the sack-relay. Kappa Alpha Theta ac
cumulated the greatest total number of points and placed 
first; Delta Delta Delta placed second.
In plank jousting, first place went to Pi Kappa Alpha; 
second place went to Phi Kappa Theta.
Photo by Dick GoldmanSecond place winners  Chi Omega
B B. ~ * flK B& &
Cl V, Il i 11 ?

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Mar , IMS  CARNEGIE TARTAW  f* I
House For Rent
SUMMER SESSION
SQUIRREL HILL
1100 Block Wightman Street  Easy 
walking distance Carnegie Tech, 
Chatham College Schenley Park, 
Wightman Public School. Older Home, 
Fully Furnished with ample storage 
space. Three rooms and powder room 
downstairs, 4 rooms and full bath 
upstairs, full basement and attic. 
Available June 15  September 15, 
1963. $150 per month plus utilities. 
Contact M. Bronfenbrenner. Address: 
306 G.S.I.A., Carnegie Tech. Office 
Phone: 621-2600. Ext. 497 or 556.
Home Phone: 421-0693.
1963 Spring Carnival
Steamboat Willy takes second place.
SENIORS
There9s Still Time
To Buy
Your Degree Ring
Complete stock of sizes 
on hand
C.I.T. BOOKSTORE
hrioio Dy Aron monona
It gives you that clean feeling.
 Photo by Jim Nichol
Beta Sig presents "Gone With the Wind.**
(tarlj HouBe
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings until ):M
Alice n Wonderland places third.
circuit in style without 
stifling. Go in Cricketeer's 
Shirtweight sportcoat, a 
no-weight blend of Dacron* 
polyester and cotton 
that keeps cool under 
pressure. Cricketeer 
tailored, lean, natural, 
in classic worsted-look 
patterns with colors on the 
lighter side. $29.95
Whoops!

---------------------------------------------------

CA 4 _ CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday May 8, 1963
Editorial Reply
Pyke Answers Tartan Challenge
In reply to last weeks Tartan editorial, I 
would like to answer the questions posed 
and present a few more details supporting 
my platform.
First, I feel that Student Congress has a re
sponsibility to the student body and campus or
ganizations. The principal purpose of Student Gov
ernment is not to gain power or control for itself, 
but to provide assistance to campus groups, coor
dination of activities, and student representation on 
important issues. This necessitates Student Congress 
having the authority to enact legislation and pro
cure enforcement of its actions. Student Congress 
should not attempt to direct the operation of any 
student organization, but it should provide assist
ance and advice, especially for those organizations 
having membership and financial difficulties.
As I proposed last week, Student Congress is in 
a fine position to encourage membership in activi
ties. A leadership conference held early in the 
year and a review of the activities forms submitted 
by freshmen will do this. In addition, after talking 
at length with next years Freshman Orientation 
chairman, I am confident that an effective activi
ties orientation program has been developed. This 
will include an activities assembly in conjunction 
with some form of activities fair  held at a more 
attractive hour than last year.
Besides helping organizations with their initial 
membership, the program can be continued 
throughout the year. This will include assistance 
with publicity. Activities should be encouraged to 
make use of available campus publicity. Note that 
the Bulletin Board section of the Tartan is used 
very little. Also note the need for better organiza
tion of the campus bulletin boards. An activity 
such as Student Congress should have a regular 
place on each bulletin board for its announcements. 
As Chairman of Congress, I will push very hard 
for additional bulletin boards for the campus. The 
proposal this year for a board in front of Engineer
ing Hall has not gained much ground. I will take 
the initiative to follow up ideas such as this, so that 
they will not fall by the wayside, as so many good 
ideas seem to do.
Several campus organizations are in need of
Readers Write
more financial aid. Therefore, it is the responsibility 
of Student Congress to effectively show this need to 
the Administration. I understand that this year the 
school granted Congress an increase of $1500 out 
of an additional $3000 requested. In allotting us 
this money, the school has a right to make sugges
tions, and, in some cases, to give money directly to 
organizations  such as in the matched advertising 
program. However, when money is given to Student 
Congress, after we have presented a budget, Con
gress should be free to distribute it as it sees fit. 
This means that every organization showing a need 
for increased financial support will be given aid as 
it is available.
In order to obtain a mature understanding with 
the school administration, all proposals must be 
well thought out. We, the representatives of the stu
dents, must present effective plans  and then we 
must expect to receive fair considration from the 
school. If such consideration is not given  if 
reasonable arguments are not presented for the 
schools dislike of any plan, I, as Chairman of Stu
dent Congress, am prepared to inform the student 
body of such action. Reports to the members of 
Congress and letters to the editor of the Tartan 
are among the means Congress can use. Any abuse 
of the student bodys rights should be quickly re
ported  but, it is our responsibility as mature stu
dents to listen to reasonable arguments, and not to 
expect our plans to be adopted 100% of the time.
The ideas I have presented will be implemented 
by the following overall program which I outlined 
last week:
1. Most of the new projects and more effective 
programs will be accomplished by strengthening 
committee activities.
2. Interest in Student Congress and a feeling 
of accomplishment can be increased by having 
more constructive meetings.
3. The student body must be informed of our 
activities  our projects and our stands on issues. 
We must broaden communications.
4. And, finally, by mature judgment and clear 
thinking we will present a strong front to the ad
ministration.
Tom Pyke
Columinst Get Readers Judgement
Hoff Calls Vistas 
Useless Criticism
Editor, The Tartan:
I was delighted last week to 
note the column entitled Con
servative Vistas. I was greatly 
disenchanted after reading it, 
but hoped that it might be just 
a poor first effort, and that the 
next one would be an improve
ment. This hope has just been 
thoroughly dashed.
It is undoubtedly true that 
this campus has long needed a 
conservative voice, but this col
umn does not provide it. It 
seems that Mr. Godt is more 
concerned with moaning about 
American social norms and with 
displaying his own extensive but 
seemingly superficial knowledge 
than he is with presenting the 
present day American conserva
tive political viewpoint.
I have no objection to social 
criticism provided that it offers 
positive counter-suggestions, and 
proposes methods of implement
ing them. However, criticism for 
criticisms sake is the most use
less thing on this earth. It serves 
merely to provide the clod who 
is incapable of forming his own 
pinion with something that he 
can parrot.
In summary I would suggest 
that if Mr. Godt is going to call 
his column Conservative Vistas, 
that he should discuss conserva
tism, and if he is going to com
plain about social conditions in 
America, he should offer his al
ternatives for our consideration.
PHIL HOFF - 
E.E. 63
Shame on you, Jeffrey! Did 
you learn nothing from my class 
last semester?
I dont want to seem picky, 
but dont you think it would 
have been fairer to your readers 
to make it perfectly plain that 
your non-creative types were 
female and that your creative 
types were male? I dont sup
pose that a little thing like sex 
could affect the answers to your 
questions. And if I can believe 
the grapevine, the female noncreative types in your sample 
were nearly all business and 
home ec majors. It could be, 
couldnt it, that a persons major 
could also affect his responses 
to your questions?
Furthermore, Im confused 
about cause and effect. Are you 
saying creatability begets indi
vidualism, individualism begets
LOUIS R. 
G.S.I.A.
PONDY
C cJyler^urt
Candles Prof Says 
6Shame on Jeffrey9
Editor, The Tartan:
An Open Letter to the Candle:
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Creativity~M. M.
creativity, or that these traits 
merely occur together without 
any casual link? From your first 
three paragraphs, I perceive that 
you are trying (suspiciously 
hard) to prove that individ
ualism begets creativity, so that 
you can conclude by saying that 
we ought to provide an atmos
phere more supportive of indi
vidualism. No Jeff, if your 
sampling procedures were ap
propriate (by the way, what was 
your sample size?) isnt your 
logic a little faulty? You will 
have to do a lot more writing to 
convince me that individualism 
leads to creativity, and that they 
are not caused by some third 
common factor.
On the whole, A for effort, 
R for methods.
Last week general hypotheses bearing on creativity were 
discussed; this week the assumption that Margaret Morrison 
girls are less creative than Drama, Math, and Architecture 
students will be examined.
It has been suggested that the differences in answers 
could be caused by lack of intelligence on the part of the 
girls rather than lack of creativity. This explanation sounds 
plausable, but many persons have previously found that cre
ativity is not related to intelligence once a minimum level 
which should be achieved by any college student has been 
reached. Also, maybe M.M. girls arent so stupid.
The group chosen was composed mainly of Home Econo
mics and Business majors which may seem like an unfair re
presentation. The purpose of the study was not to compare 
Margeret Morrison students with others, but to compare 
creative students with non-creative ones; the departments 
chosen fit this purpose well. Interestingly enough, the group 
did not consider itself particularly creative  only after the 
purpose of the questionaire was explained did the girls decide 
they were creative after all.
Some of the answers given may show the values of the 
girls rather than lack of creativity. In answer to the question 
Do you believe the form of government existing in the U.S. 
is the best possible one? 82% replied yes ! Other girls 
when told of this result could hardly believe it, but certainly 
the large majority giving the answer speaks for a large seg
ment of the college. Upperclassmen (or is it upperclasswomen?) claim that these values may change as the student moves 
from her freshman to her later years, and this may be true. 
But it does not speak well for M.M. girls to have this raw 
material entering.
In all fairness though, it must be admitted that some 
M.M. girls showed creative responses, and, when discussing 
the results, others disassociated themselves from their class
mates. It may be that the college is broken rather sharply 
into two partsthose who place a value on intelligence, are 
aware of their environment, and have interests and attitudes 
of their ownand those girls who are not concerned about 
much more than next Saturday night. (Note that it can be 
argued that the second group has the right idea). There is 
really no concrete evidence to support the idea of a division, 
but the two groups seem so different (to an outsider) that 
the explanation seems reasonable. This writer thinks the di
vision, if it exists, is a good omen.
'CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
In the Spring a young mans fancy lightly turns to 
thoughts of love, baseball, and track. The Carnegie Tech A. A. 
(not alcoholic anonymous) sponsored a track meet for the 
local high schools. Pittsburgh Central and Greensburg tied 
for 1st place. The winner was determined by a flip of a coin 
and Pittsburgh Central got the nod. Tied for 3rd were 
Shadyside Academy and Wilkinsburg. The Tech baseball team kept 
rolling along and downed Allegheny again 5 to 4. The Junior class 
held a meeting and it was announced by the Prom Committee that 
they had a 15 dollar excess. It was mentioned (shades of Kennedy), 
that Tech men appeared to be below the normal standards of physical 
condition. As a remedy for this situation, it was suggested that gym be 
taken more seriously. It was further mentioned that the gym program 
would be made more arduous. And for people that like to learn the 
latest dance crazes, like the present day Bossanova, Jacques 
Dancing Academy at the corner of Craig and Forbes advertised that 
it would give lessons in The Boston on Wednesday evenings at 8 p.m.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898; Advertising Manager, MU. 
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.0
Editor-in-Chief ...........................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor .................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor ..........................................AI Pollock
Business Manager ...................................Michael McCoy
News Editor ...............................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor  ............. .............Alma Rock
Features Editor ........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor .............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ........................ .John Norris
Sports Editor  ............................................John Blue
Layout Editor ............. ...................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor.....................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ..................................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Riva, Margie Park, Annie Moser, Charles Hofook, Martin
Ackerman, Elaine Grumer, Fritz Klinke.
News Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack, Colin Jones, Marty 
Moore, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky, Jay Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam 
Gilespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois Riva, Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy 
Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Feature Staff: Marion Mulligan, Jennifer Low, Marty Sauer, Martha Hodgson. 
Irene Grandberg, Aril Soule, Jeffrey Axelrad, Jane Keeler, Sut Crytzer, 
Bob Godt.
Sports Staff: Scott McCormick, Tom Terpack, Dick Elder, Ted Engelmann. 
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Sue 
Stitt, Al Pollock, Fritz Klinke, Holy Lawrance.
Copy Staff: Barbara Brown, Nancy Green, Jane Keeler, Mary Muier, Jane Sam
uels, Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream, Helen Beatty.
Photo: Aron Collins, Bill Jackson, Russ Stinebaugh.
Secretarial Staff: Carole Breuer, Ann Carten, Nancy Beth Jacobs, Leslie McKinley, 
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinograd, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young, 
Jane Samuels.
Circulation: George Kali, Tom Glassberg

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 8, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
Conservative VistasiBSR
By Robert E. Godtgggjjif*
Television As A
Moral Force
dream .
Recently American television programming has had its 
turn in the Public Eye and has come out as badly as prohibi
tion and flying saucers. High government officials, noted 
educators, trained strikebreakers, and other similar arbiters 
of American morality have investigated TV and found it sore
ly lacking.
Television, which is just now reaching maturity as a public in
stitution, has caught the peoples fancy and yet some dissidents feel 
that the broadcasters are detraying the viewers affections and not 
performing in the public interest. Many iminent psychologists and 
housewives are afraid that TV is perverting the always susceptible 
American child.
Many childrens programs speak highly of TVs interest in the 
moral upbringing of todays child. Witness the adventure stories with 
clear-cut heroes and villains which nurture Juniors budding sense 
^of right and wrong. A good example is the whole saga of Mighty 
Mouse which is symbolic of the Americans dream of America. Mighty 
Mouse is small and humble (and celibate too, which is of interest) 
but mighty when facing Evil  usually embodied as a cat. Helped 
by allies  dogs  he conquers evil and frees his fellow mice. Since 
the emancipated mice are individually indistinguishable, Mighty 
Mouses unbiased altruism tamps home a lesson of republican equalitarianism and fair play. A study of most other popular childrens 
shows would reveal an equal finesse in the handling of symbolism 
f which inculcates the precepts of the American Way.
But oftentimes the shows overstep the bounds that the viewers 
set on their tolerances. A specific case of viewer wrath recently arose 
in the iron range counties of northern Minnesota. Minnesota has al
ways had a problem with the last vestiges of Indian tribes in the 
state. The tribes have been bilked and bullied since the days of 
Father Hennepin and are today very poor and unruly. There has 
been as much racial feeling in the north-central part of Minnesota 
as in any redneck county in Mississippi. To this uneasy situation 
Of the television show The Lone Ranger hit like a Pullman car full of 
Martin Luther Kings.
The few liberal advocates of the program claim that it teaches 
the inevitable conquest of good over evil and the practical benefits of 
being on the side of the good. But the angry majority see it as a 
fascist plot to overhtrow racial commonsense and to stir up trouble 
in a hitherto happy social relationship.
The majoritys case was clearly stated by an outspoken steamshovel operator in a recent issue of the Mesabi Messenger. This mans 
deep interest in the problem and his sensitivity to the symbolisms in 
the Lone Ranger is amazing of such a man of the people. He ad
mits that the Ranger himself is a good figure and that he fights clearly 
Evil figures. But the Ranger betrays his moral leadership by working 
so openly with an Indian. The lesson children learn from this prom
iscuous inter-racial co-operation goes counter to the teachings of the 
church and home. If the children were to take the Rangers lesson to 
heart and start mingling with the Indians the white kids would prob
ably get knifed. The spokesman reasons that racial understanding and 
g. ^co-operation takes a long time and cannot be instituted overnight, as
* it was the case of the Lone Ranger and Tonto. He feels that the 
only saving virtue of the show is that the Lone Ranger rides a 
white horse  symbolising virtue  and shoots bullets of pure silver 
while Tonto rids a pinto  symbolising tainted virtue, yet to be 
proved  and shoots bullets of base lead.
The lesson of these cogent arguments is plain; television stations 
in such touchy regions should not incite violence by programming 
shows of questionable moral message. It is in the public interest for a 
TV program director to know the sentiments and sore points of his 
audience and to help retain social equilibrium in the community
* through his choice of programs.
Y Needs Guides 
For Incoming 
Foreign Men
Would you like to meet new 
friends? Every year approxi
mately 50 new international stu
dents find their way to Tech. 
They have come from distant 
lands to study in their chosen 
field, most of them in graduate 
school. Their introduction to 
Western society is somewhat sud
den, confusing and oftentimes 
frustrating.
Last year at this time a special 
committee of the YMCA and 
YWCA set up a special committee 
to recruit Guides for Overseas 
Students. They sought out the 
areas of difficulty encountered by 
the overseas student and offered 
assistance wherever possible. 
Each student coming in was as
signed a Tech guide, who needed 
to have been on campus for at 
least a year, who would write to 
him during the summer, plan to 
meet him when they both arrived 
in Pittsburgh in September, help 
him to get introduced to the fac
ulty in his department, to the Ad
viser for Foreign Students, help 
him through registration proce
dures, and in whatever other 
ways occurred to the Guide. A 
letter was sent to each incoming 
overseas student during the sum
mer to his home country welcom
ing him, telling him he would 
have a guide, and giving a list of 
clothing suggestions so he would 
know how to prepare for life in 
this climate.
Those interested in being a 
guide to an overseas student are 
invited to fill in application 
blanks at the Y office or found on 
various bulletin boards around 
the campus. The name of your 
student matched to your depart
ment if possible, will be sent early 
in the summer
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL 
DIVIDENDS ft/
OF
PiKA Dedicates 
New Crest
In the midst of the carnival ex
citement of May 4 Pi Kappa Al
pha Fraternity dedicated an 
aluminum crest for the front of 
its house. This plaque with the 
fraternity shield upon it was ded
icated to the memory of the late 
Je M. Helt, a brother of Pi Kappa 
Alpha who died in action in the 
Korean conflict. The asistance of 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Helt of McCandless Twp., his parents, and 
contributions of other alumni 
made the plaque posible. The 
aluminum crest, cast at the littlestown Foundry was finished by 
Terence Cox.
Turk Presents Plans 
For Election Platform
At the last Student Congress meeting, Mr. John L. 
Turk was nominated for the Office of Chairman of Stu
dent Congress. Mr. Turk presents his platform here.
For the past several years, Stu
dent Congress has operated only 
as the efficient executer of the 
policies handed down to it by the 
administration and as the pseudo
representative of the democratic 
ideals, principles, and responsi
bilities outlined in the constitu
tion of Student Govt. Student 
Govt, has been so relegated by the 
administration and by its own 
members (through the general 
lack of initiative) that it now 
holds the unwholesome position 
of the administrations bulletin 
board to the student body. It 
will be the responsibility of the 
Chairman, backed by a strong and 
active Congress, to pove to the 
administration that Congress is 
capable not only of performing its 
duties, per se, but also of estab
lishing itself as an intrinsic part 
of the policy-making body of the 
administration.
To this end, I propose that the 
new Chairman of Student Con
gress should become a regular 
member of a policy-making body 
of the adminiistration, i.e., that 
the voice of Student Congress 
through its Chairman will be felt 
firsthand in establishing policy for 
the general student body.
The realization of this one goal 
alone would dramatically solve 
many of the problems now facing 
Congress. The problem of com
munication and relations with the 
administration would become a 
thing of the past, and most cer
tainly, the problem of support, 
both financial and otherwise, for 
the activities would be solve! for 
here we would have a body com
posed of both administration and 
students which would be beter 
able to discuss the position that 
the extracurricular activity should 
hold in the students life.
It is the responsibility of Stu
dent Oongres to oversee and to 
have financial control over stu
dent activities, a power which 
should be closely watched and 
discriminately used. To this end,
I plan to work closely with the 
Activities Commitee and with 
such organizations as Pi Delta 
Epsilon. With the establishment 
of PiDE as the governing body 
of student publications, Student 
Congress has an opportunity to 
work closely with and to further 
each publication now that it does 
not have to handle each of their
Jack Turk
administrative problems separate
ly.
If the Student Congress were 
to become a part of a policy-mak
ing body of the administration, 
its position and the respect for it 
will be raised in the eyes of both 
student and faculty. This will 
tend to create more interest and 
a keener desire to join such a 
group. It is the duty, ressponsibility, and my aim to elevate 
Congress to such a position.
In electing members to a new 
and more powerful Congress, the 
student body will have the re
sponsibility to elect honest, sin
cere and intelligent representa
tives, whom they can trust on the 
basis of merit to make decisions 
on the issues presented and not 
on the basis of previous associa
tion or group loyalty.
John L. Turk
Mr. Turk has been associated 
with Student Congress for the 
past thre years, having been a 
member of the Activities, Rules, 
Fall Festival, Spring Carnival, 
Constitution, and Financial Cbmmittees. He has also served as 
Chairman of the Activities Com
mittee.
His other activities have in
cluded President of Beta Sigma 
Rho Fraternity, membership in 
Mens Dorm Council, and Ad
ministrative Vice-President of the 
Council of Fraternity President.
WHATSNEW
IN THE MAY
ATLANTIC?
BKhKK er Ic*stK" The Anarch* 
Ists" an Atlantic Extra. An unusual 
account of the advocates and the his
tory of the idea of K stateless society 
here and abroad.
ALSO
lixs" Dr Duofv K" ysu bf"u exwH 
uKk Auo Vxw Iftuv writer A. H. 
Raskin looks at a "skeleton of a union" 
thirty years after its heyday.
M Cxc's bK- xL Nuu*uM Adventures 
f" the Greek island of Mykonos by The 
Atlantic's Phoebe-Lou Adams.
- -a ^ open every Tuesday evening
FranklniFEDERAL7pm,o8!30pmSAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
5816 FORBES AVE., SQUIRREL HILL
Over S5 Vor* ) Service to the Pitttfairph Community
 Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes, too, 
e Save by the 10th  earn from the first.
 All savings insured up to $10*000.
MGc"Km R^u"f"'k
Hughes.
What happens when an 
standing staff of edi
tors sets out to pro
duce a magazine of 
the highest academic 
and cultural interest? 
You'l I know when you 
read The Atlantic. In 
each issue you'll find 
fresh new ideas, ex
citing literary tech
niques,keen analyses 
of current affairs and 
a high order of crit
icism. Get your copy today.
A poem by Ted
Erik the Red had no choice-but Vitalis with V-7 will keep your hair neat all day without grease.
Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis 
with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, 
Keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis today !

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe R  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 8, NERG
Techs Future 
Looks Bright 
And Exciting
[continued from page I]
ent total enrollment of the school 
with a proportionate increase in 
graduate students. Present trends 
indicate that, by 1972, 58% of CIT 
students will be coming from 
states other than Pennsylvania 
with the percentage from Pitts
burgh decreasing.
The number of scholary papers 
published by faculty members is 
expected to reach 700 in 1972, 
over a total of 361 in 1962.
By 1972, CIT is expected to 
have assets totaling $157.6 million.
There will be an increase in the, , , - ,,
amount ol money devoted to loans ^ a.nd ."T"0. gone, but  hac! letits indelible mark everywhere.
Spring Carnival Comes & Goes 
But Leaves Its Mark!!
By Justin Polulack
Monday morning. May 6 some of the campus sluggishly 
shifted into first gear (or was it still the neutral of the wee 
hours), while the rest with dead batteries were in bed.
It was the day after. The HiLos had highed and lowed, 
and the Powell Orchestra (whoever they were) had played 
the last song. The plank-joust mud was almost dry behind 
More wood; the faculty eggs^ 
tosed, some caught, some not so 
caught. In short, a queen was 
crowned, sororities relayed, the 
buggies raced, the park parked 
in and the campus was trying to 
face up to the 23 days between 
then and finals. But things were 
noJ. the same.
They couldn't be. Spring Car
nival Weeeknd, 1963, had come
and scholarships.
The present plans, says Dr. 
Warner, are ambitious but at
tainable. They are being re
studied every year with changes 
and new goals constantly being 
planned. He said that, at present, 
CIT is a good school and has 
the potential of becoming a great 
one; the next ten years are 
critical.
Nominated for the office of 
Chairman of Student Congress 
were John Jackson, Tom Pyke, 
and Jack Turk; nominated for the 
office of Vice Chairman were Jim 
Geanan, Lee Weller, and Ellie 
Wiseman. Elections will be held 
on May 8 in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo; all are invited to attend.
Novelist Holds 
Writing Course
Professor Gladys Schmitt, of 
the Department of English, will 
teach a course in creative writing, 
C-141 and C-142, to a limited 
number of students in the aca
demic year 1963-1964.
Admission is contingent upon 
the permission of the teacher, and 
normally only seniors and juniors 
are admitted. It is advisable for 
candidates to submit written ap
plications this spring to Miss 
Schmitt. Her campus address is 
Fine Arts 308A. The class will 
meet Tuesdays and Thursdays at 
9:30 a.m. and at one other hour to 
be arranged. 
Through this course Carnegie is 
providing an unusual opportunity 
to students interested in writing. 
Miss Schmitt has a distinguished 
international reputation as a nov
elist. Her first book, Gates of 
Aulis (1942), won the Dial Press 
Award. Three of her novels have 
been Literary Guild Selections: 
David the Kins (1946), Confessors 
of the Name, (1952), and Rem
brandt (1961). Last summer she 
taught a course in the novel at 
the Indiana University Writers 
Conference. Many of her books 
have been widely translated in 
Europe.
Sigma Nil 
Wins Design
[continued from page 1] 
degree ramp and had to remain 
stationary when the brakes were 
applied. Six of the buggies enter
ed failed to pass the brake test 
after two attempts but five of 
them went back to work and re
paired their brakes well before 
race time in order to pass the in
spections. The other buggy had a 
drag brake which did not work 
effectively on a plywood ramp. 
The Chairmen agreed to let this 
buggy compete anyway since their 
brake did hold on the pavement.
The judges in the design com
petition represented both Ford 
Motors and General Motors. They 
chose Sigma Nus candy apple red 
number three as best designed 
buggy. Sigma Nu had an entire
ly new suspension system which 
was of particular interest to the 
judges. This is only the third year 
for this buggy which promises 
some interesting competition in 
future races.
Somehow, that AH door had a 
little more give to it, slide rules, 
more slide to them, lecturers less 
groucheness to them, girls blouses 
a little more weight to them with 
the added ounces of one, two, or 
even three Greek pins.
The wonderful magic of Car
nival still held some in blissful 
sleep. Captive too were wakeful 
but bleary-eyed engineers, artists, 
and sweet, double M, double C 
girls. For it was a let-off-steam 
weeeknd, a spring-fever pitched 
celebration, it was a three day 
party jammed full of fun, games, 
races, contests, laughter, prizes, 
entertainment, dancing, and 
(blush) love.
Carnival was, and always will 
be a drag affair, designed to be 
enjoyed by two people (a male 
and the other kind). But even the 
rent-a-cops who stopped some 
reckless parking in the Skibo lot 
didnt look so bad. Actually, just 
about everything looked good if 
you could open your eyes Monday 
morning. Roommates looked more 
congenial, the food-plan break
fast more desirable, Fine \rts 
looked finer and the grass on the 
cut just a shade greener.
Gradually, as the week wore 
on, the campus tromped again on 
its accelerator and now clutches 
from first to second gear to rev 
up tc third in preparation for 
final exams and projects, but 
fourth gear is stipped forever 
till next yearSpring Carnival, 
1964.
Donna Flynt 
W ins Tour
Donna Flynt will spend a week 
of June in Switzerland as a Guest 
Editor of Mademoiselle magazine. 
The decision to include the bonus 
of a week in Switzerland was 
based on the overwhelming suc
cess of last years Guest Editors 
trip to Rome and the popularity 
of the sport of skiing in the 18-25 
age group.
While in Switzerland, the Guest 
Editors will model ski clothes to 
appear in Mademoiselles August 
College issue.
mi
TONITE AT THE
NOW SHOWING
Thurs., Frl., Sat., San., Mon. 
Stewart Granger Pier Angeli
SODOM AND GOMORRAH
in color by deluxe 
also in color 
Vincent Price Peter I.orre
THE RAVEN
COMING SOON
Walt Disneys
SON OF FLUBBER
 and 
LOVE IS A BALL
Kiltie Band 
Gives Concert
The final band concert in, the 
current season will be presented 
by the Kiltie Symphonic Band 
Friday, May 10, at 8 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. This will be 
the Presidents Concert in honor 
of the President and Mrs. Warner
The band, conducted by Dr. 
Richard Strange, will present the 
following numbers: La Procession 
du Rocio, by Turina; Symphony 
for Band, by Presichetti; Serenade 
for 13 Winds, Strauss; and Valdres March, Hanssen. Also to be 
played will be the ballet music 
from Pineapple Pill, by Sullivan, 
conducted by associate conductor 
Philip Catelinet, and Outdoor 
Overture, by Copland, conducted 
by Mr. Sidney Harth, head of the 
Carnegie Tech music department.
Tickets may be purchased from 
band members or at the door. 
Prices are: adults, $1, students, 50 
cents, and Student dates 75 cents.
here is a book 
that is 
helping us
think
clearly
In these troublesome times it 
takes some doing to keep ones 
perspective  to appraise world 
conditions with intelligence  
and to come up with satisfying 
answers. This book, Science and 
Health with Key to the Scrip
tures by Mary Baker Eddy, has 
helped many of us to do this. It 
can help you, too.
We invite you to come to our 
meetings and to hear how we 
are working out our problems 
through applying the truths of 
Christian Science.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 
ORGANIZATION
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
Pittsburgh 
Meeting time: 4:30 p.m. Tuesday* 
Meeting place: Skibo Chapel
Science and Health it mailable at all 
Christ ian Science Reading Rooms and at n/attp 
college bmktUorc. Paperback Edition $.95.
[continued from page 11 
285 votes were cast. Fred Sammel, 
a member of Kappa Sigma and 
the favorite ugly man of Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, took second place 
with 10,688 votes. Dippy Duck 
won the Ugliest Man on Campus 
contest with a total of 13,302 
votes. The degree of ugliness of 
the eighteen contestants is: 
Orffanization Votes
Sigma Nu ................................13,302
Kappa Kappa Gamma___.10,688
Finks ......................................... 2,678
Explorers Club ...................... 2,057
Cameron Choir ............. 2,015
Mens Dorm Council............. 1,744
Delta Upsilon .......................... 1,240
Sigma Alpha Epsilon........... 988
A. S. C. E................................... 818
Theta Xi .................................. 486
Pi Kappa Alpha ................... 282
Romper Room ....................... 266
Beta Sigma Rho .................... 196
Mechanical Engineers ......... 191
Tau Delta Phi ........................ 156
WRCT ................................... 115
Delta Tau Delta .................... 35
Phi Kappa Theta................... 28
On Campuswith
MaxShuJman
(Author of I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
HOW TO SEE EUROPE 
FOR ONLY $300 A DAY: NO. 3
When all of you go to Europe during your summer vacation, 
you will certainly want to visit Spain, where the tall corn grows, 
The first thing you will notice upon entering Spain is the 
absence of sibilants. In Spain s is pronounced th and 
thereby hangs a tale. Until the reign of Philip IVor Guy 
Fawkes, as he was sometimes calledSpaniards said s* just 
like everybody else. Philip IV, however, lisped, and Spaniards, 
having an ingrained sense of propriety and not wishing to em
barrass their monarch, decided that everybody should lisp. This 
did indeed put Philip IV very much at his ease, but in the end 
it turned out to be a very bad thing for Spain. It wrecked the 
sassafras industrySpains principal source of revenueand 
reduced the nation to a second-class power.
b tteep bobi m cd iodhr
As a result, Spaniards were all forced to turn to bull fighting 
in order to keep body and soul together. Today, wherever you 
go in Spainin Madrid, in Barcelona, in Toledo, in Cleveland 
you will see bulls being fought. For many years the bulls 
have sought to arbitrate this long-standing dispute, but the 
Spaniards, a proud people who use nothing but Castile soap, 
have rejected all overtures.
It is therefore necessary for me to explain bull fighting to 
anyone who is going to Spain. It is also necessary for me to 
say a few words about Marlboro Cigarettes because they pay 
me for writing this column, and they are inclined to pout if I 
ignore their product. In truth, it is no chore for me to sig the 
praises of Marlboro Cigarettes, for I am one who fairly swoons 
with delight when I come upon a cigarette which gives you the 
full, rich taste of good tobaccos plus the pure white Selectrate 
filter, and Marlboro is the only smoke I have found that fulfills 
both requirements. Oh, what a piece of work is Marlboro! The 
flavor reaches you without stint or diminution. You, even as I, 
will find these statements to be happily true when once you 
light a Marlboro. Marlboros come to you in soft pack or HipTop box, and are made only by the makers of Marlboro.
But I digress. Let us return to bull fighting. Bulls are by 
nature bellicose creatures who will keep fighting till the cows 
come home. Then they like to put on pipe and slippers and 
listen to the Farm and Home Hour. However, the Spaniards 
will not allow the bulls any surcease. They keep attacking the 
bull and making veronicasa corn meal pancake filled with 
ground meat. Bulls, being vegetarians, reject the veronicas 
and then, believe you me, the fur starts to fly!
To be perfectly honest, many Spaniards have grown weary 
of this incessant struggle and have left their homeland. Co
lumbus, for example, took off in three little shipsthe Patti, 
the Maxene, and the Lvemeand discovered Ohio. Magellan 
later discovered Columbus. Balboa also sailed to the New 
World, but he was silent on a peak in Darien, so it is difficult 
to know what he discovered.
Well sir, I guess that's all you need to know about Spain. 
So now, as the setting sun casts its rosy fingers over El Greco, 
let us take our reluctant leave of Spainor Perfidious Albion, 
as it is jocularly called. Aloha, Spain or Perfidious Albion, aloha I
Ci 1063 Max Shulmaa
* * *
let us not, however, take our leave of smoking pleasure. Let 
us keep enjoying those fine Marlboro Cigarettesrich, golden 
tobaccopure white Selectrate filtersoft pack or Flip-Top 
boxavailable in all fifty States of the Union

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. May 8, 1W3  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fage 7
Photo by Bill Jack so
An ATO safe on an overthrow at third base.
Boys night out?  Girls night out?
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack ... or Dinner
..at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty) MU. 2-9318
With enough games finally be
ing played to fill in the softball 
standings, the seeded teams for 
the most part justified the pre
season ratings by maintaining un
beaten records.
In the Braves league, the Vulcans held down the first position 
with an unblemished 3-0 record. 
Top-seeded Tau Delta Phi re
mained unbeaten by clobbering 
BSR B 13-4, scoring ten runs 
in the fifth and sixth innings. 
Theta Xi won its first game of 
the year, beating Beta Sig, this 
time by a score of 12-3.
Beta Sigs A team and the 
}Finks A remained unbeaten in 
the Yankees league. A1 Rosen 
pounded out a double, triple, and 
a home run while Paul Robinson 
smashed 2 homers and 2 singles 
to lead BSR *to a 25-3 romp over 
TDP. The Trojans Rubin pitched 
a three-hitter to pace his team 
over the Dunkers 4-1.
Steve Foels knocked out four 
bits to lead ATO over the Tro
jans W by a score of 5-3 in 
r> the Twins league. ATO then beat 
the Finks B 5-1 on Newells 
four-hitter to take undisputed
kLUOF sUOOFLYuUy
An error was made in report
ing the scores of the intramural 
rifle match held two weeks ago. 
DTD took third place with a 
score of 566 rather than PKA, 
who shot a 554 to finish fourth.
possession of first place. DU A 
also went undefeated, beating the 
Finks B 9-6. Kosko, DAppolina, 
Wisniski, and Pavlik all hit fourbaggers for DU in their game.
In the Cardinals league, the 
Grad Eagles B won two, clob
bering SN A 19-10 and then 
edging out SAE A 10-9 with the 
winning run coming across in the 
last inning on two errors by SAE. 
This evened SAE at 1-1, since 
they had previously nipped the 
Marauders 4-3, as Howie Gammon 
threw a four-hitter striking out 
12.
In the only game played in the 
Giants league, the Grad Eagles 
A shut out the Fernadoes 14-0 
as John Crecine missed a no-hit
ter by one pitch, allowing a lone 
single in the fifth inning. John 
only pitched to 22 batters while 
his teammates rolled up 13 runs 
in the first three innings.
Delta Tau Delta remained unde
feated in the Pirates league but so 
did Kappa Sigma as they crushed 
the helpless EE Grads 28-0. KS 
47 men come to the plate in 
The Dukes beat the EEs 
21-16.
In the minor leagues, the Pea
nuts remained unbeaten on a forwhile the Jaweewees clobber
ed TDP B 19-8 to stay in con
tention for a play-off spot. ATO 
T beat BTP B 10-5 but then 
lost to SAE B 5-7.
MajorLeagues
GiantsW
Grad Eagles S1
BTP Al
Ferndoes1
PiKA0
BravesW
Vulcans3
TDP2
Met Grads1
TX1
BRS B0
PiratesW
DTD2
KS1Dukes1
EE Grades0
YanksW
BRS A2
Finks A2
Trojans S*2
PKT0
Dunkers0
Cardsw
Grad Eagles B2
SAE 'A"1
Marauders1
SN  A'0
TwinsW
ATO A**2
DU A1
Trojan 'W*1
Finks B0
MinorLeagues
MetsW
Peanuts3
i Jaweewees1
, SN B0
| TDP B0
SenatorsW
I Whalesli ATO T>l
I BTB Bl
1SAE Bl
Shifty little rascal
Everything about the Rambler American 
440 Convertible puts you one up. For in
stance, the fast-action Twin-Stick Floor 
Shift option that lets you call the shots as 
never before. A special feature gives in
stant kickdown out of cruising gear.
Rambler 63 is class. Clean, sporty lines. 
Rich, spacious interiors. A power plant 
with plenty of punch. Upkeep costs way, 
way down. Gasoline economy way up. And
Rambler is more service-free. See your 
local dealer for some straight talksuch 
as why Rambler won Motor Trend Maga
zines Car of the Year Award.
RAMBLER63
Winner of Motor Trend Magazine Award:CAR OF THE YEAR
bRCEpG DWeRGIagCERz WA?RCIEBDR eEI.  gWeRC IWg
Month! paywonts basod on manufacturor's sggestd retail pfie* for Rambler Amtrican 440 Convartttrt*.  HOT eel OO* DCD UnklTU w downp.ym.nt and a 36-month contract with normal carryini chargw, all fMral tents poid. Oooi notiTx I l.cC rtn Ifiun I n |nchK pt>onl tquipnwot, whit.wall tir*s, transportation, insurance, state and local tax, t toy.
Cant swing a new car? See our fine Se&ct Used Cars
the fourth dimension: TIME
Ht W/ITOA/
Creator of the World s First Electric Watch
...still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, 
an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation and surprise
HAPPY DEC. "W!.. . Under a new world calendar now under study by the 
United Nations, each year would be exactly the same. (We now have 14 dif
ferent kinds of year.) Since the new calendar would have only 364 days, 
the final day would be Dec. "W" or "Worldsday, an international holiday.,
TIGHT SQUEEZE
... The coil m 
a Hamilton 505 
Electric Watch 
is ft/ hi diame
ter. Its .00075" 
wire is so thin, it stretches to 137 
feet long when unwound.
Several Teams Still Unbeaten;
GamesFollowPre-SeasonRatings
WAIT A SECOND? ... Nothing much 
can happen, you say? In science, 
its different. Inside the atom, for 
instance, 10,000 collisions occur 
in one billionth of a second.
For the absolute ultimate in one* 
upmanship, wear a Hamilton 505 
Electric watch. For girls who seek 
the same sense of elegance and 
excellence, there is a beautiful 
selection of Lady Hamiltons. They 
start as low as $35 and make 
outstanding gift suggestions.
HAMILTON WATCH COMPANY 
LANCASTER. PENNA . U S. A.laratte 
59 

---------------------------------------------------

P *  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 8, 196S
SAVE MONEY! Special Get Acquainted Offer!
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE *249 
NOW ONLY $198
Hurry! Offer good only while supply lasts!
 Photo by Aron Collons
Morewood resident takes beauty bath at the 
plank jousting tournament.
Grads Expect Sports Trophy
With the intramural season 
rapidly drawing to a close, the 
Grad Eagles look a sure bet 
win the coveted intramural 
Sports Trophy. The Grads have a 
1 points, 14% ahead 
ATO who now 
>nly one major sport 
yet to be played  softball, ATO 
has little if any hope of 
the Grads.
By the same token, SAE 
21 points is not likely to catch up 
to ATO for second place and first 
place among the fraternities.
The Grad Eagles have garnered 
points in thirteen out of seventeen 
of the intramural sports com
pleted so far. They were first in 
basketball, tied for second in foot
ball, and first in tennis, squash, 
and co-rec badminton.
ATO has captured first place 
trophies in two major sports  
football and volleyball. They also 
win the foul shooting champion
ship and the three-man volleyball 
champianship.
The only other major cham
pionship, bowling, was won by 
Beta Theta Pi who holds down 
fourth place in the standings.
STANDINGS  MAY 6
Grad Eagles
ATO
SAE
BTP
SN
TDP
PKT
Finks
Internationals 
Undergrad Sparrows 
Faculty Bull Dogs
51 
36 */b 
21 
18 Yz 
15 
10 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6
Kappa Alpha Theta attempts to get passenger on 
broomstick airborne at sorority relays.
Trojans
DU
PiKA
KS
Obelisk
Sportsmen
DTD
Nuts
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
House For Long 
Term Rent
SQUIRREL HILL
600 Block Forward Avenue  Easy 
Walking Distance Frick Park, Colfax 
Public School, Allderdyce High 
School. Furnished 8-room House, only 
Three Years Old. 4 Rooms and Powder 
Room Downstairs. 4 Rooms and Full 
Bath Upstairs. Air and Pollen Condi
tioned. Attached Garage. Patio in 
Rear. $200 per month plus utilities. 
Available June 15, 1963, for up to 15 
months. Contact M. Bronfenbrenner. 
Address: 306 G.S.I.A., Carnegie Tech. 
Office Phone: 62112600, Ext. 497 or 
556. Home Phone: 421-0693.
THIS IS THE FAMOUSCustom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos
EASY WAY TO FIND 
A NEW FAVORITE!
Look what you get6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos 
in one handy sample package! What easier way is there 
to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the 
finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe 
tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and 
pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own special some
thing" to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. 
Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different 
blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
YRAITYV DTB 
bE,ITCRSmells so good because it tastes so good.
DWAzWA zWYA cool-burning English type tobacco, distinctively aromatic.
e.EIR.DD bE,ITCRSuperbly mild and aromatic, never burns hot.
zWAAESWCzA smooth, mellow cool burning mixture with subtle taste and aroma.
Uniquely full bodied and rich tasting, yet pleasingly mild.
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus
