CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 16 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1963
Cwens Visit Morganza Youth;
L Interesting Experience For AU
On Saturday, February 26th, Cwens visited Morganza 
Youth Development Center at Canonsburg, Pa.
There are close to three hundred children, both boys and 
girls, at Morganza. Their living units are two-story houses, 
which they call cabins, with about twenty-five girls or 
boys to a cabin. These youngsters have been convicted of 
felonies, mostly petty larceny, and have been sent to the
Center not as punishment, but* ------------------------
because the court felt it was impossible for them to lead lawabiding lives at home. When the 
teachers, housemothers, and others 
who worke^i with the children at 
the Center feel that a girl or boy 
is ready to leave, they recommend 
this. Children seldom stay there 
longer than a year.
Upon arrival the Cwens divided 
into two groups and went to two 
cabins housing girls between 12 
and 18 years. Make-up and hair 
demonstrations, relay races, char
ades, and informal conversation 
filled most of the afternoon. The 
relaxed mixing brought both 
groups the rare opportunity to 
know a little more about the out
side world. The Cwens, who 
have sold Cwens products 
throughout the year in the dorm, 
spent some of their profits on little 
presents for the Morganza girls. 
They wrapped gifts grab-bag 
stylenail polish, skin soap, sham
poo, hand lotion, bows, lipstick, 
bobby pins, and gum. It was an 
enjoyable and meaningful ex
perience for both the Cwens and 
the children.
62 Grad Joins 
c Peace Corps
Anne Richter, a 1962 graduate 
of Carnegie Tech, has success
fully completed a 10-week Peace 
Corps training program at Syra
cuse University and is enroute to 
a teaching assignment in Nyasaland, East Africa.
Miss Richter is one of 42 men 
and women, ranging in age from 
1 - 20 to 58, who completed the
I* course to become the first Peace 
Corps volunteers sent to the
British protectorate which is part 
of the Federation of Rhodesia and 
Nyasaland. All will become pri
mary and secondary school teach
ers.
The volunteers studied ten
hours a day, six dayt, a week at 
Syracuse. They learned Nyanja, 
i native language of Nysaland, and 
[^became proficient in American
studies and world affairs. They 
also were taught the history and 
culture of the area.
This is Syracuses second Peace 
Corps class. The first, which train
ed last summer, was made up of 
nurses now serving in Tangan
yika.
A native of Boston, Massachu
setts, Miss Richters home is Abington, Pennsylvania. She earned 
[fcher B.F.A. in painting and design 
at Carnegie Tech last spring.
Student Congress
There will be a regular meet
ing of Student Congress at 4:30 
on February 13, 1963 in the Wherrett Lounge, Skibo. Any inter
ested student is urged to attend.
Sigma Nu, 
KKG Lead 
In Scholarship
The scholarship placings of fra
ternities and sororities have been 
announced. Sigma Nu led the fra
ternities with a 2.483, while Kappa 
Kappa Gamma led the seven so
rorities with a 2.706. The stand
ings of sororities and fraternities 
are as follows:
Fraternity 
Sigma Nu 2.483
Beta Theta Pi 2.440
Beta Sigma Rho 2.348
Tau Delta Phi 2.345
Theta Xi 2.339
Delta Tau Delta 2.310
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 2.195 
Phi Kappa Theta 2.151
Alpha Tau Omega 2.149
Delta Upsilon 2.145
Pi Kappa Alpha 2.120
Kappa Sigma 2.089
Sorority
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Kappa Alpha Theta 
Chi Omega 
Alpha Epsilon Phi 
Delta Gamma 
Delta Delta Delta 
Sigma Kappa 
All men 
All women 
All school 
All sorority 
All fraternity
2.706
2.680
2.663
2.648
2.612
2.611
2.528
2.330
2.583
2.405
2.643
2.276
Y Sponsors 
Firesides
The YMCA and YWCA are set
ting up a series of International 
Firesides in Faculty Homes during 
spring semester. Four overseas 
students and four American stu 
dents, the first of each group to 
sign up, will be included in each 
evening. The first series will 
open at the home of Dr. and Mrs. 
Richard Moore of the Mathema
tics Department, who live in 
Forest Hills, on Friday March 1st 
from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. The next 
Fireside will be at the home of 
Dr. Beekman Cottrell in Squirrel 
Hill on Sunday March 3 from 7:30 
to 9:30 p.m.; Dr. Cottrell is Asso
ciate Professor of English, and has 
spent a year each in France and 
Baghdad, Iraq. The third will be 
at the home of Mr. Howard Glasser, also in Squirrel Hill; he is 
Assistant Professor of Graphic 
Arts and Painting, Design and 
Sculpture. He is active in Ceilidh 
and has an unusual collection of 
folk music. Some of those who 
have been serving as Guides to 
Overseas students will be coming 
with their students interested, in 
this program. There will be fur 
ther such events planned in April.
[cond on page 3]
Scotch And Soda Employs Ghost 
To Co-Write Spring Production
S n S ghost and Dean Brown rewrite coining productions script.
Film Arts Announces Spring 
Motion Picture Selections
Techs Film Arts Society has announced the program for 
its spring series of distinctive domestic and foreign motion 
picture classics. Film Arts, in its eleventh year, offers to the 
students of Tech and to Pittsburgh movie enthusiasts a pro
gram of outstanding films.
The new spring series began last Thursday with SEVEN 
BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS. Every Thursday this
semester, the Society will present*---------------------------------------------------------
a unique and rare film, many of 
which can no longer be seen com
mercially in the United States.
The second film to be presented 
is Ingmar Bergmans THE MA
GICIAN, which the New York 
Times has called, a thinking 
mans horror film.
Other films included ir the four
teen film series are the original 
HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE 
DAME; Jean Renoirs THE 
GRANDE ILLUSION; Gloria 
Swanson in Billy Wilders SUN
SET BOULEVARD; Rene Clairs 
THE ITALIAN STRAW HAT;
Sergei Eisensteins STRIKE;
Robert Morley as O -CAR 
WILDE; the Japanese master
piece UGETSU, a rare film of 
Buster Keatons; James Stewart 
in Frank Capras MR. SMITH 
GOES TO WASHINGTON; and 
[cont on page 6]
Everyone has a skeleton in his 
closet, and S n S is no exception. 
However, in true theatrical spirit, 
they go one better and have a 
full-sized ghost. Since the club 
never allows any talent or energy 
to go unsued it set out to find a 
job for the ghost. It seems the 
ghost is quite bright and since 
Dean Brown needed a co-writer 
for this coming spring's produc
tion, the ghost was put to work.
Dean himself doesnt appear to 
be bothered by the fact that he 
is working with a ghost. Of 
course, Dean is one of those ener
getic theater people who will jo 
on working for a show, despite 
any obstacles. He is also an old 
hand as far as S n S is concerned. 
Last year, he was Co-Author, CoLyricist and Costume Designer for 
Viv the S n S 62 production.
As a senior stage designer, 
Dean has also been busy this year 
within the department. He de
signed the sets for Ghost Sonata, 
costumes of Cock-a-Doodle Dan
dy, and lights for Misalliance. 
Dean hasnt been idle during the 
summer months, either. He has 
appeared with Players, Inc. in 
Burlington, Vermont, for their 59 
season and during the 61 summer 
season he worked at Ledgers 
Playhouse in Grand Ledge, Mich
igan, where he appeared at Zasu 
Pitts in The Curious Savage. 
With experience and variety of 
this nature it would not be diffi
cult to predict an interesting and 
exciting show.
Although there is a great deal 
that can be said about Dean, it is 
difficult to appraise the ghost. Not 
that this reporter has any undue 
prejudice against ghosts, but at 
the risk of sounding provincial, I 
have had really little contact with 
ghosts to give me any grounds 
for comparison. I can only assure 
those who feel rather uneasy at 
the mention of a ghost, that he is 
quite harmless. I may not be 
Casper, he told us, but I have 
no intention of haunting anyone, 
unless, of course, they dont come 
to see the show.
Droivn Sorrow 
At Dorm Party
Drown your sorrows at Donner 
Hall, February 23, cause Mens 
Dorm Council is having a Mourn
ing Party  thats right  
mourning! Felt bad about last 
semester, this semester, grades, 
Dear John or Dear Mary let
ters? Misery loves company and 
company loves cocktails  and 
both will be in stock, along with 
the music of the Leo Alman 
Combo, 8:30-12:30, February 23.
Students, Profs 
Fight Apathy 
At Lunch Talks
With the cooperation of Dean 
Steinberg, a group of students 
concerned with the apathy exist
ing on our campus have organized 
weekly discussions with members 
of the faculty. Topics have ranged 
from Sex and the Woman and 
The New Immorality to The 
Many Faces of India. Participat
ing faculty members have been: 
Dr. Steinberg, Dean of MMCC; 
Dr. Dawes, of the history depart
ment; and Messers. Wolper and 
Ciancio of the English Depart
ment. Students meet Thursday at 
11:30 for lunch and discussion in 
the Blue Room of Morewood 
Gardens.
This Thursday, February 
Dr. Schwarz of the History 
I partment will discuss The 
surge in Neo-Naziism. In 
future they hope to include
21, 
deUpthe
,______ ___ HP I _______ disMourners are asked to dress ap- cussions with faculty members
propriately, and the party is I from Fine Arts, Engineering and 
strictly drag  no stag. J Science, and GJS.I.A.

---------------------------------------------------

TECHNICAL GRADUATES
ChE, ME, IE, Chem, CAR
Atlas, A tlas,tTrsIlaN asGlSrsesla mcltsmAh 
nSiA)sIAsn) neelSr nXXnS,)sj A)a SlrXn)rsb
ushsj n o,Ahsesla tl) A Ahh aliSll hlGlhr s) 
cl AunGlThsrla tAjnSr.
TrAINING cSn,ic nSsl)Asn) A)a n)TclTjnu 
Arrsi)tl)r Arrsr )lw tltulSr ne n,S lmcb
)smAh rAee n Aaj,r SAXsahj n cl rst,hAs)i 
wnSha ne s)a,rSj.
LhSTING n,S tAjnS mcltsmAh XSna,mr  
XnhjnhrN XnhjlrlS Slrs)rN r,SeAmA)rN Amsb
GAla mASun)rN n)hj XASsAhhj s)asmAlr cl 
GASslj ne n,S s)lSlrr. OclS ASlAr s)mh,al 
ts)sA,Sl lhlmSnTtlmcA)smAh alGsmlr enS 
AlSnrXAml AXXhsmAsn)rN lcsmAh XcAStAml,b
smAhrN A)a s)a,rSsAh lxXhnrsGlr. EtXhnjtl) 
sr AGAshAuhl s) XSna,m alGlhnXtl)N XSnmlrr 
alGlhnXtl)N XSna,m SlrlASmcN XSna,msn) 
r,XlSGsrsn)N o,Ahsj mn)SnhN A)a rlGlSAh 
rAee ASlAr.
ADVANCEMENT n) tlSsN s)lSlrs)i XSnjb
lmrN ,ssn) AsaN tnalS) eAmshsslrN A)a XhA))la 
XSniSAtr ne XlSrn)Ah alGlhnXtl) Ahh r,s cl 
tA) s)lSlrla s) csr nw) e,,Sl.
See YOUR XhAmltl) neesmlS )nw enS s)enSb
tAsn) Aun, rXlmsesm Xnrssn)r A)a hnmAsn)r. 
MAkl A) AXXns)tl) n asrm,rr jn,S mASllS 
nXXnS,)sslr wsc n,S SlXSlrl)AsGl wcn wshh 
Gsrs jn,S mAtX,r n) 
ADVANCED AEROSPACE 
PROGRAMS AT DOUGLAS
have created outstanding 
career opportunities for
SCIENTISTS A)a ENGINEERS
with advanced degrees
Assignments include the following areas:
SlSGnTMlmcA)srtr  relating to 
all types of control problems 
EhlmSn)sm Sjrltr  relating to 
all types of guidance, detection, 
control and communications 
PSnX,hrsn)  relating to fluidmechanics, thermodynamics, 
dynamics, internal aerodynamics 
E)GsSn)tl)nh  relating to air 
conditioning, pressurization and 
oxygen systems
H,tA) FAmnSr  analysis of 
environment affecting pilot and 
space crews, design of cockpit con
soles, instrument panels and pilot 
equipment
HlA TSA)relS  relating to air
craft, missile and space vehicle 
structures
SS,m,Slr  relating to cyclic 
loads, temperature effects, and the 
investigation of new materials, 
methods, products, etc. 
AlSnaj)Atsmr  relating to wind 
tunnel, research, stability and 
control
Snhsa SAl Pcjrsmr  relating to 
metal surfaces and fatigue 
SXAml Glcsmhl A)a wlAXn) 
rjrlt r,aslr of all types, 
involving a vast range of scientific 
and engineering skills
Gl e,hh s)enStAsn) A
INDIVIDUAL ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
wsc A Dn,ihAr SlXSlrl)AsGl
Thursday & Friday, February 21-22, 1963
We urge you to make an appointment through Gordon G. Sikes, 
Director, Placement Bureau. If you cannot, please write to 
S. A. AtlrnjN eXTLX//SLXT eHAVEDH/Xa vbXbT/S
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANYN INC.
3000 OmlA) PASk BhGa.N SA)A Mn)smAN CAhsenS)sA
An equal opportunity employer
Fafte 2  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, February 20, 1963
CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES, >*c.
An quoi opportunity tmploytrNEGCEISTUI OOF HLGRNRYL
FEBRUARY 27, 1963
eXTL/XS
ft
; ALPHA FHI OMEGA 
 MC Bnnk 
S Bnx 282  ft
 Name ............................................................................ Majorftft
J Address ....................................................................................ftftft! Phone Number ......................................................................
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
BULLETIN
_ JIf
YMCA
The National Student Assem
bly of the YMCA and YWCA 
which was held in Illinois during 
Chiistmas vacation will be re
ported by the delegates who at
tended to all who are interested 
on Thursday. February 21, at 4:30 
in Room 56, Skibo.
FSlrctn) OSsl)Asn)
Applications for Chairman of 
Freshmen Orientation Week are 
teiiig accepted by Executive
Council c/o Dean Strict!s office. 
All applications, including quali
fications, are due by 4:30 p.m.; 
February 28, 1933.
CTBnnk S,XXhltl)
Apha Phi Omega is planning to 
print a supplement to the 1962 
C-Book tor the benefit of those 
' people who have moved since 
October. If you have moved, or 
if you would.like to correct a preious error, please fill out the form 
below, and send it to Aipna Phi 
! Omega, Box 282, Campus Mail.
HAVE A DATE
on February 21
If youre about to get your electrical, mechanical 
or industrial engineering degree  sign up today 
with your Placement Officer for an interview on 
the above date with a representative of West 
Penn Power. If you want a career and 
not just a job, sign up and learn all 
about this engineering-minded com
pany where you can surge ahead.
WEST PENN POWER COMPANY
B27,1 9,66F 3ree1s7urgF Pe11sy6v21,2
Have bank charges got you riled up!
At Union National Bank, you can have a tree personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance. There's no service charge. No maintenance 
charge. No charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your 
btlls the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free-personal checking account. Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOD STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
MtMaEfi: FEDERAL RESEftVE SYSTEM FEDEftAL Df POSiT INSURANCE COftPOftAIION

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 2, 198  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 
Eighteen Girls Pledge 
During Semester Rush
On Sunday, February 10, Techs Panhellenic Council 
sponsored a brief and informal spring rush. The only event 
of this rushing season was an open house during which each 
of the seven sororities was host to a group of girls for about 
twenty minutes.
Instead of using the preferential bid lists, the sororities
invited girls to memership by giv-* *------------------------------ ------------
ing them open bids. Any girl was 
eligible to pledge if she went 
through either this rush or the 
rush last fall. The following girls 
have become pledges of the fol
lowing sororities:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Natalyn
Goldberg, Susan Hartmen, Judy 
Litman, Ilene Savage, and Fran
ces Siegel.-
Chi Omega: Sandra Cook, Gail 
Dennis, Nancy Ritz, and Gail 
Thomas.
Delta Delta Delta: Nancy Ad
ams, Barbara Marshall, and Jane 
Spencer.
Kappa Alpha Theta: S1 san Witt. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Donna 
Lu Daugherty and Sallie Ann 
Driehorst.
Sigma .Kappa: Karen Hill, Su
san Koch, and Mary Muir.
Ys Sponsors 
Indian Dinner
An Indian Dinner will.be spon
sored by the Campus YMCA and 
YWCA on Sunday evening, Feb
ruary 24, at 5:30 P.M. at the 
Faith and Life Community House, 
5220 Forbes Avenue near the 
Woodlawn Drugstore. Mr. Ajit 
Badami and Mr. Nalin Parekh 
are planning the menu and pro
gram for the evening with an opReligious
Conference
Continues
As a follow-up to the Campus 
Conference on Religion, several 
joint meetings will be held at 
which two religious groups will 
discuss the similarities and dif
ferences between their religious 
traditions. Some of the meetings 
will include examples of liturgical 
practices.
The meetings will be as fol
lows:
Canterbury Club Christian Sci
ence Organization, Wednes
day, February 20, 4:30, Room 30, 
Skibo.
Emerson Club and Canterbury 
Club, Friday, February 22, 4:30 
Room 40, Skibo.
Student Institute of the Ora
tory and Christian Science Or
ganization, Tuesday, February 26, 
4:30, Room 39, Skibo.
Lutheran Student Association 
Baptist Student Movement, Tues
day, February 26, 7:00 P.M. St. 
Andrews Church.
Student Institute of the Ora
tory United Campus Ministry, 
Friday, March 1, 8:00 P.M. Room 
39. Skibo.
Baptist Student Movement Em
erson Club, to be announced.
portunity for informal conversa
tion anci sharing of ideas about  / * a I 
India. The first twenty-five per- | U1C "I.
ZhoIeg^{e/ thedinne,Ii Lectures 011 Dramawill be accepted, and more will 
be put on the waiting list, since 
the facilities are limited. Regis
tration for the meal is $1.00. If 
this idea proves popular, there 
may be some other nationality 
meals planned during the semes
ter.
International 
Students 
Meet Techiles
[cot?t from page 1] 
Those interested should register at 
the Y Office, 57 Skibo. for the 
evening of their preference. The 
list will be closed when eight stu
dents are included in each eve
ning; others wishing to participate 
will be placed on a waiting list. 
For meetings beyond walking dis
tance, transportation will be pro
vided from Skibo twenty minutes 
beforehand.
CARN
EGIR(((
STUDENTS 
CAN AFFORD!
STUDY-TRAVEL
PROGRAMS
some scholarship 
assistance available 
Also Work Camp 
& Hosteling 
12-46 land days . . . from $300
33 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Central Europe 
Eastern Europe & USSR 
Scandinavia  Spain 
Turkey  South America 
Israel  Greece 
36-60 land days ... from $510 also
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP 
DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS
and
BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS 
$239 all-inclusive by air
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS
International Student ID card...............................................$1*00Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants) SI.00
Work, Study, Travel Abroad......................................................... $1.00
European charter flights and other transportation
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 
20 West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y 
OXford 5-5070
USNSA it  non-profit organisation ter ring the American student community'
Fairless Endowment 
Finances Lectures
Harold Clurman, theater critic, 
director and author, is present
ing the 1963 Andrew Mellon Lec
tures in Drama.
On February 19, Mr. Clurman 
spoke on The Scope of the The
ater, The concluding lecture in 
this two lecture series will be on 
The Critic, Theater and the Pub
lic, Tuesday, February 26. Por
ter Hall 100, at 8 p.m.
Mr. Clurman, theater critic of 
The Nation, is visiting Andrew 
Mellon Professor of Drama at 
Carnegie Tech. As cofounder, he 
was with the Group Theater 
from 1931 to 1941 and then spent 
three years as a producer and 
director in Hollywood. Since 1946 
he has been a critic for various 
publications, including a term as 
Guest Critic of the London Ob
server in 1959.
]\Ir. Clurman has received the 
Fi*e|nch Legion of Honor and the 
George Jean Nathan Award for 
Dramatic Criticism.
A Benjamin F. Fairless Me
morial Lecture endowment fund 
has been established at Tech to 
support an annual series of lec
tures by internationally known 
figures _ from the world of busi
ness, government, and education.
According to present plans, the 
lectures will be delivered by out
standing authorities on the sub
jects of business administration, 
economics, the relationships be
tween business and government, 
management and labor, or any 
subject related to the theme of 
preserving economic freedom, hu
man liberty, and the strengthening 
of individual enterprise.
Mr. Fairless was president of 
United States Steel Corporation 
for fifteen years and chairman of 
the board from 1952 until his re
tirement in 1955. He served as 
president of the American Iron 
and Steel Institute from 1955 un
til his death on January 1 of this 
year. Throughout his long busi
ness career, he was deeply inter
ested in human and business re
lationships and in promoting a 
better understanding of the prob
lem that arose from them.
The lecture fund was estab
lished through donations by many 
companies in the steel industry, 
other industries and business, and 
friends of Mr. Fairless. Starting 
with an original goal of $150,000, 
the fund has now grown to more 
than $200,000, with contributions 
from more than 200 donors. Un
der the Benjamin F Fairless Me
morial Lecture plan, an interna
tionally known authority will be 
invited each year to present a 
series of three lectures over a per
iod of three weeks at Carnegie. 
He will spend the three weeks 
in residence on the Tech cam
pus, during which time he will be 
available for discussion with fac
ulty members and students.
The lecture will be selected by 
a committee composed of Dr. 
Warner, the deans of G.S.I.A., 
E and S., the Maurice Falk Pro
fessor of Economics and Social 
Sciences, and two Tech trustees.
A long-time friend of Carnegie, 
Mr. Fairless served on the Board 
of Trustees from 1952 until his 
death. In 1959, he was named 
Honorary Chairman of the Board. 
He was also a leader and cochairman of Techs ten-year $29,- 
000,000 development program 
from its beginning in April, 1957.
Commenting on the fund, Dr. 
Werner said, We are indeed for
tunate that the friends of Mr. 
Fairless has selected Carnegie; 
Tech as a site for a memorial to j 
him. He was a great friend not; 
only of the University but of all
education. It is fitting that hi 
memory be preserved in such a 
manner at the University which 
he served and supported so loyally
for ten years.
It is expected that the first ia 
the Benjamin F. Fairless Me
morial Lectures will be held ia 
the spring of 1963.
S. SYLLI
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRtf REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave MC. 1-6104
A)aTYEU
nLkc/ah  rgsros $2.50
Ten Percent Student 
Discount at 
SKIBO DESK ONLY
On CampuswithMsQfrolman
(Author of *7 Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gilhs, etc.)
THE CURSE OF THE CAMPUS: NO. 2
As was pointed out last week, one would think that with all 
the progress we have made in the education game, something 
might have been done by now about roommates. But no. The 
roommate picture has not brightened one bit since Ethan 
Goodpimple founded the first American college.
(Contrary to popular belief, Harvard was not the first. Mr. 
Goodpimple started his institution some 75 years earlier. And 
quite an institution it was, let me tell you! Mr. Goodpimple 
built schools of liberal arts, fine arts, dentistry, and tanning. 
He built a lacrosse stadium that seated 102,000. Everywhere 
on campus was emblazoned the stirring Latin motto CAVE 
MU SSIWatch out for moose. The student union contained 
a bowling alley, a clock, and a 16-chair barber shop.
(It was this last feature the barber shop that, alas, 
brought Mr. Goodpimples college to an early end. The student 
body, being drawn from the nearby countryside,-was composed 
chiefly of Pequots and Iroquois who, alas, had no need of a 
barber shop. They braid their hair instead of cutting it, and as 
for shaving, they dont. The barber. Tremblatt Follicle by name, 
grew so depressed staring all the time at 16 empty chairs that 
one day bis mind finally gave way. Seizing his vibrator, he ran 
outside and shook the entire campus till it crumbled to dust. 
This later became known as Pickett's Charge.)
But I digress. We were discussing ways for you and your 
roommate to stop hating each other. This is admittedly diffi
cult but not impossible if you will both bend a bit, give a little.
I remember, for example, my own college days (Berlitz, 08). 
My roommate was, I think you will allow, even less agreeable 
than most. He was a Tibetan named Ringading whose native 
customs, while indisputably colorful, were not entirely endear
ing. Mark you, I didnt mind so much the gong he struck on 
the hour or the string of firecrackers he set off on the half-hour. 
I didnt even mind his singeing chicken feathers every dusk and 
daybreak. What 1 did mind wa*- that he singed them in my hat.
To be fair, he was not totally taken with some of my habit 
eitherespecially my hobby of collecting water. I had no jars 
at the time and just had to stack the water anv-old-where.
Well sir, things grew steadily cooler between Ringading and 
me, and they might have gotten actually ugly had we not each 
happened to receive a package from home one day. Ringading 
opened his package, paused, smiled shyly at me, and offered 
me a gift.
Thank you, I said. What is it?
^ak butter, he said. You put it in your hair. In Tibetan 
we call it gree see kid&tuff
Well now, thats mighty friendly, I said and offered him a 
gift from my package. Now you must have one of mine.
Thank you. he said. What is this called?
Marlboro Cigarettes, I said and held a match for him.
He puffed. Wow! he said. This sure beats chicken feathers!"
Or anything else you could name, I said, lighting my own 
Marlboro.
And as we sat together and enjoyed that fine flavorful 
Marlboro tobacco, that pure white Marlboro filter, a glow of 
good fellowship came oyer usa serene conviction that no 
quarrels exist between men that wHl not yield to the warmth of 
honest good will. 1 am proud to say that Ringading and 1 re
main friends to this day, and we exchange cards each Christina 
and each Fourth of July, firecracker. imMuftrim
Wherever you or your roommate may beon any camp 
in any city, toicn. or hamlet in any state of the Unionyou 
wilt Unti \larlboron at your lavorile tobacco countersoft pack or flip top Cwens

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, February 2, 1963
EasnSsAh
A Futile Means of Government
Because they do not know what they 
want Student Congress to do, Tech students 
are confused in their opinion of Student 
Congress. They believe the administration 
has no faith or desire to permit Student Con
gress to have any responsible functions. The 
truth is that Student Congress completely 
lacks any recognition by the students as a 
governing body. They show no desire to par
ticipate in a plan in which Student Congress 
has important responsibilities.
Any government is only effective when 
it satisfies the desires of most of those who 
are affected by its decisions. Though Student 
Congress presents a cross-section of students, 
their meetings are not representative of a 
cross-section, as many are absent. Only after 
several abscences is there any punishment, 
and this is only a loss of vote.
Many of the items on the agenda are 
such minor administrative details as whether 
International club can charge 25c per person 
for admission to their dance. When it comes 
to major decisions, such as how parking per
mits should be allocated, the matter is quick
ly taken out of Student Congresss hands. 
Consider the proposed spring vacation 
which they talked to death. When the Board 
of Trustees wanted to know student opinion 
on Saturday classes. Student Congress could 
reach no clear cut decision. They couldnt 
decide whether to enforce the no-smoking 
rules, so the school enforced them. Only 
when the decisions made in Student Con
gress are so clear cut, that it is impossible 
for them to flounder about, do they accomRlAalSr WSsl
plish a task such as the more liberal hours 
in the Library and the snack bar. In any 
matter in which there appears to be a grain 
of truth for both sides, Student Congress 
vacillates.
Student Congress must be reorganized to 
rid itself of this trivia and routine which now 
consume so much of its time. Committee 
heads should be organized into a cabinet that 
would have the ability to direct the wishes 
of Congress rather than leave it to the presi
dent or a select few who do not always cater 
to student opinion. At present, there is no 
coordination of administrative heads of de
partments and Congresss committees. The 
Tartan, Technical, and Thistle want to take 
their financial appropriations and budgets 
out of Student Congresss hands. It is impos
sible for a committee to study and evaluate 
the work of any activity. Reports turned in 
to Student Congress are skimpy. The various 
activities have no representative either in 
Congress or in the committees dealing with 
them.
Congress should publicize the minutes of 
its meetings. Copies of these minutes have 
not regularly been turned in to Dr. Stricks 
office since 1955. On the other hand, our own 
administration should give Congress more 
complete and more regular reports on their 
activities, as the school has the final say in 
policy toward Tech students.
It is imperative that some group correlate 
and control the myriad student activities. 
This, Student Congress could do; I believe 
that the future of Student Congress lies in 
organizing itself toward this end. M.S.
Mr. Axelrad Does It Again
Farm Attacks View 
On Drug Addiction
Editor, The Tartan:
Well, Jeffrey Axelrad has done 
it again! Only Mr. Axelrad 
could encourage drug addicts, 
calling them non-comformists 
and fighters toward a fre^ so
ciety and individual frfe3dom.
Drug addiction is considered at 
worst a nasty habit, akin to fin
ger-nail biting. And, after all, 
addiction produces conscientious 
workers and happy citizens.
Mr. Axelrad does, however, 
feel that this enjoyable indivi
dual freedom should only be 
enjoyed by those adults intellec
tually aware enough to choose 
it. Perhaps a pretty shelf of
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEOIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 3-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 
1-1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Portage P?id at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising bv National Advertising. Inc.
Editor-in-chief ............................. Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor .....................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ..........................................Miron Straf
News Editor....................................................Margie Park
Assistant News Editor................................ Jan Scharp
Features Editor ..................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ,..................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager ......................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor  ...............................................John Blue
Layout Editor..............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ............................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Rar4: Mark Applebaum. Colin Jones. Margie Park. Henry Henderson, 
B. J Zimnewicz. Miron Straf. and Chuck First.
CentrC Staff: Nancy Cameron. Mike McCoy. Sue Stit, Marion Mulligan, Drew
Lippay, Dick Elder. Fritz Klinke, Tom Glassberg.
N'tvi Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moore. Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky. Jaye Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan. Lois 
Elinoff. Janice Lester. Jam Leone, Marty Sauer, Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers, Jan Scharp. Marty Siegel. Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Woifson, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Fperts: Scott McCormick. Ken Kantrowltz.Seerelarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Brei ten stein. Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and 
Leslie McKinley.
Clrlati*a: Tom Johnson. George Kail and Jay Priest.
rat are Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan. Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis. Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad, Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers. Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer, Irene Grand berg, Ollie Donaldson.
'* Staff: Jane Keeler. Baibara Brown, Jane Samuels, Diane Brown, Mary 
Muir. Claire Dzatko. Nancy Green, Ginny Ulise, Verna Ream, Nancy Cameron.
ri>*Utr*Plky: Ritk Blackburn, Russ Steinbaugh, Bill Jackson.
drugs could be added to the 
state store or local liquor shop, 
and drivers licenses checked to 
make certain the purchaser is 
over 21 and, therefore, intel 
lectually aware. What, pray tell, 
of the children born to addicated 
mothers? For these children will 
be born addicted. Would they 
be given special permission to 
take drugis, or could the gov
ernment just let them die of 
withdrawel symptoms? A baby 
born addicted can nave little 
freedom of choice in the matter.
However, such problems are 
minor when compared to the 
glories of a Dfug-of-the-Month 
Club, or of a local dope peddler 
in every block, with narcotics 
to suit every taste and pocketbook. Why should th- nasty ma
jority want to prevent this?
Mr. Axelrad has one thing 
missing in his glorious scheme. 
Some way of changing ones 
mind. The person who decides to 
stop drinking after a few weeks 
exposure to alcohol can normal
ly stop. But anyone, after tak
ing strong, habit-forming drugs 
for a few weeks, will become 
seriously addicted. Many addicts 
do not like their condition; they 
are simply trapped by their ad
diction.
Would not a more sensible 
plan be the treatment of those 
addicts who wish to be cured, 
the control drugs for addicts 
by DOCTORS authorized to give 
them in steady quantities to 
present addicts, and the con
tinued government fight against 
the spread of addiction.
The drug addict has no free
dom: he is a slave to his ad
diction. It may be argued that 
the Thirteenth Amendment lim
ited individual freedom; men 
could not sell themselves or 
their children into slavery and 
then live to regret it. They were, 
instead, forced to be free; no 
whim of the moment could take 
that freedom from them, and no 
error of the parent could leave 
the child a slave. We may all be 
slaves by being kept from drug 
addiction, but would any of us 
be better off free?
Sincerely,
Carolyn Farb 
I letters cont on page 5]
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Sundry Comments
INDIVIDUALISM
In a letter to the Tartan last week it was claimed that 
federal control of education involves restrictions on indivi
dual freedom do not exist today. This is not true of the 
program suggested in this column. What was suggested is 
that the federal government take the controls now being 
exercised by the states. This is not an increase in control ^ 
only a change in who exercises it.
Civil Rights
A Democratic administration pledged to secure equal 
rights under law for all has been entrenched in Washing
ton for two years now. Yet only token actions have been 
taken. True, legislation could probably not get through 
Congress, but much can be done under the existing laws. 
Why not try massive integration by using lawsuits (and 
troops if necessary) to overwhelm segregation school dis
tricts.
This action would again raise the question of restric
tion of individual rights  the federal goveernment would 
be restricting the right of individuals to send their child
ren to all-white public schools. This may be so, but to allow i 
the schools to remain segregated would be a greater restric- j 
tion on the Negro minority. Every day that Negroes are | 
treated as inferior in an injustice to every Negro so treat
ed. It is small comfort to those Negroes being restricted to | 
know that someday all schools will be integrated. Why I 
not today then? If Kennedy is doing all that is in his powerf| 
to hasten integration, he must be totally in competent. This j 
is doubtful. Our noble president is not keeping his word it ! 
seems!
Taxes
In this field Kennedy is trying, and seems to have pro
posed a reasonable tax program. It will probably be ruin
ed in Congress though. Even if the tax cut goes through, the j 
special interests in Congress will probablv wreck the modest 
proposed steps toward the tax reform. The reforms are (in 
this writers opinion) the vital part of the bill  the tax cut,|j 
is politically motivated although it may have some affect on 
the economy. Ih cases such as this the best proposals us
ually get lost. Hopefully this case will be an exception.
Politics
Governor Scranton of Pennsylvania has rapidly pro
ceeded to replace incompetent Democrats with incompetent 
Republicans. At least the state is not moving backward. 
That would be difficult.
This Week in Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20
The Brass Choir  Conductor Philip Catelinet, 8:15 p.m.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21
C.I.T. Porter Hall 100  Film Arts presents The 
Magnician (Sweden, 1957), Ingar Bergman; also 
Eight Cifendirs Ago
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22
Syria Mosque, Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra: Gold 
and Fizdale, Duo Pianists.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Missalliance, 8:10 p.m.  Opening night of College of 
Fine Arts Drama Production.
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 24
Syria Mosque, Pittsburgh Symphone Orchestra, 3:10 
p.m.
FEBRUARY 28
Syria Mosque, 8:15 p.m.  Mary Costa in Faust
CONTINUING EVENTS
Warner  Best of Cinerama 
Stanley  The Hook 
Fulton  The Longest Day
Squirrel Hill  The Loneliness of a Long Distance 
Runner
Shadyside  Carry on Teacher 
Nixon  Mutiny on the Bounty 
Penn  The Sound of Music
Playhouse  Craft Avenue, Bye Bye Birdy, Hamlet 
Street, The Fantastiss. ^
Hewlett Gallery  Drawings by faculty artists of Am-*" 
herst, Mount Holyoke, Smith and the University of 
Massachusetts 
Porter Garnett Gallery (A.H.)  Push Pin Studios 
Exhibition. Sculpture by Clark Winter, associate 
professor, Department of Painting, Design and Sculp
ture, Carnegie Tech, Gallery 1.
Puck Gallery, Cathedral of Learning  Drawings of 
Oakland by students of Professor Robert Lepper, 
Department of Painting, Design and Sculpture, 
Carnegie Tech. Q

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 20, IMS  CARNEGIE TECH  Pae 5
lAalSr WSsl Cnw'*.
Jf hats The Stand 
On Drug Addiction
Editor, The Tartan:
After reading Mr. Axelrads 
truelv enlightening article on 
drug addiction, I am still con
fused as to whether he is offer
ing a solution for, or advocating 
the creation of, a drug problem. 
Russell A. Freed 
Junior, Mechanical Eng.
Dupont Honors 
Larry Lang
During the semester vacation 
from January 31 through Feb
ruary 3, Larry Lang, a junior in 
the Department of Civil Engi
neering, was one of twenty-six 
male students chosen from col
leges and universities through
out the United States to attend 
a College Fashion Conference at 
a ski lodge in Mont Tremblant, 
Quebec, Canada. The conference 
was sponsored by the Dupont 
Manufacturing Company.
Besides the twenty-six college 
j-nen and the representatives from 
Dupont, there were also represen
tatives from Sports Illustrated, 
Playboy, Mademoiselle, The New 
York Times, and various cloth
ing -manufacturing companies. The 
conference covered the influence , 
of advertising on the purchase of i 
mens clothing. Each of the 
twenty-six students passed out 
evaluation sheets on his campus 
in order to fiind out what the 
/^verage college man has in his 
wardrobe, what he has bought 
during the past year, and what 
magazines he has read that may 
have influenced his purshases.
The students, who were all 
flown by Dupont from their res pective colleges to Mont TremI blant, spent the three days in
press conferences and panel dis
cussions giving their opinions on 
the current trends of men, fash
ions. These opinions will help the 
inanufacturers in deciding what 
and how much to produce for the 
coming year.
Larry was chosen as a mem
ber of this conference by Du
pont through the Dean of Stu
dents at Tech. This was the sec
ond such conference sponsored by 
Dupont, and it promises to be
come an annual evest.
English Instructor 
Edits New Quarterly
Arthur P. Zieglar, Jr., English, 
has been appointed Editor of the 
JOURNAL OF THE ALLEGHEN
IES and has received the first in
stallment of $100 to initiate plans 
for a prospective issue to be pub
lished this spring.
This quarterly will publish re
search and scholarly articles on 
the literature, history, arts, archi
tecture, and folklore of the Al
legheny Highlanders, and is un
der the auspices of the Council 
of the Alleghenies. For the first
Costa Sings 
In Pgli. Faus?
Mary Costo, will make her 
Pittsburgh Opera debut Febru
ary 28 and March 2 in Faust 
at Syria Mosque
Miss Costa will appear with 
two noted . Metropolitan Opera 
stars  Barry Morell and Nicola 
Moscona.
Completing the cast will be No
lan Van Way, Nancy Williams, 
Julia Lerner and Earl Corwin, 
with ballet dancers from the 
American Ballet Theater. Dr. 
Richard Karp will conduct the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, and Tito 
Capobianco is stage director.
Tickets are available at Hornes, 
Gimbles ,the University Book 
Center, and the Pittsburgh Opera 
office, 1522 Farmers Bank Build
ing, Pittsburgh. Phone reserva
tions are being taken at GRant 
1-2974.
Miss Costa did the voice of 
Sleeping Beauty 'n the Walt 
Disney film, and later spent 
three years on TV before under
taking her present career in 
opera and concert recitals.
Besides her appearances with 
the San Francisco Opera, she has 
starred in operatic productions at 
the Royal Opera House and Co
vent Garden, London, and reci
tals in Hollywood Bowl concerts. 
She has also signed a long-term 
contract with RCA Victor and 
made her first recording, La 
Boheme, in Rome last summer.
issue, West Virginia University is 
compiling an extensive table of 
economic facts about the area, 
and Mr. Zieglar is writing a gen
eral discription of the culture of 
the people. For an early issue 
professors from five universities 
including Carnegie Tech are plan
ning a series of essays establish
ing needs and guides for future 
scholarship in their respective 
areas.
Mr. Ziegler received this ap
pointment on the basis of his pub
lications in the field, his editorial 
experience at CHARETTE: A
JOURNAL OF ARCHITECTURE, 
and his interest in the Council.
Mullins Takes 
AIME Award
Dr. William M. Mullins, profes
sor of mettallurgical engineering, 
has been named the recipient of 
the Mathewson Gold Metal of 
the Metallurgical Society of the 
American Institute of Mining, 
Metallurgical and Petroleum En
gineers (AIME).
Professor Mullins, who has been 
at Carnegie Tech since 1960, will 
be presented the award for not
able contributions to metallurgi
cal science. The presentation will 
be made at the organizations 
92nd annual meeting in Dallas, 
Texas, Febraury 24-28.
Born in Boonville, Indiana, 
Professor Mullins received P. B., 
M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from the 
University of Chicago. Follow
ing completion of his graduate 
work in 1955, he joined the Westinghouse Research Laboratories to 
do basic research in the field of 
metal physics. In 1959, he was ap
pointed advisory physicist and 
placed in charge of a group 
studying metallic surfaces.
Dr. Mullins has been particu
larly distinguished in theoretical 
investigations of solid surfaces 
and interfaces, especially in the 
area of surface morphology procedured by capillary forces.
Institute Offers Opportunity 
For Travel and Studies Abroad
An opportunity to combine va
cation travel abroad with six
weeks at a European summer
school is available to qualified
American students through the 
Institute of International Educa
tion.
Three British programs offer a 
choice of subjects and periods
which may be studied at the ap
propriate university concerned. 
Shakespeare and Elizabethan dra
ma will be offered at Stratfordupon-Avon by the University of 
Birmingham; the history, litera
ture and arts of 17th century Eng
land will be the course at the 
University of Oxfo d; a study of 
British history, philosophy and 
literature from 1688 to 1832 will 
be presented at the University of 
Edinburgh in Scotland.
All applicants must have com
pleted two years of university 
work. The British Summer Schools 
fee of $254 covers full tuition, 
room and board.
A high point of the two Aus
trian summer sessions will be the 
opportunity for students to attend 
the famed Salzburg Music Fes
tival, including one opera, one 
concert and Hofmannsthals 
drama Everyman.
At the Salzburg Summer 
School, at Salzburg-Klessheim, 
Austria, emphasis will be placed 
on German language study. At
tendance at one of the several 
German language courses is man
datory. Other courses in art, mu
sic, economics and politics will be 
taught in English.
The fee for the entire program, 
including room, board and tui
tion, as well as festival tickets, is 
$245. Applicants must be between 
the ages of 18 and 40 and must 
have completed at least bne year 
of college work.
The University of Vienna will 
hold a special summer session at 
its St. Wolfgang campus, on Lake
St. Wolfgang, Stroble, Austria, 
Courses available to students will 
include law and political science^ 
liberal arts, and the German lan
guage.
This program Is open to stu-* 
dents who have completed at 
least two years of college. The fee 
for the full six weeks, including 
tuition, maintenance, tours, ex
cursions, and Music Festival at
tendance, is $335, with an optional 
four-day trip to Vienna costing 
$35.
Travel arangements to and 
fron. Europe are the responsibil
ity of the student. A limited num
ber of full or partial scholarships 
are available to both the British 
and Austrian summer schools, but 
in no case do they cover trans
portation costs.
Applications for admission and 
for scholarships may be obtained 
from the Counseling Division, In
stitute of International Education, 
800 Second Avenue, New York 17, 
New York. Completed British 
Summer School scholarship appli
cations must be received before 
March 1, 1963, and admission ap
plications before March 30. Scho
larship applications for the Aus
trian schools must be returned by 
March 1, and admission applica
tions by May 1.
MA)Ailtl) TSAs)llr
GRAPHIC CONTROLS CORPORA
TION  A youns, progressive com
pany specializing in printing for auto
mation  is seeking graduating 
seniors for management training posi
tions in several phases of its opera
tions.
Assignment will be in Buffai, N.T., 
completing projects that emphasize 
individual development for placemeni 
in a position of responsibility and 
challenge. Advancement opportunities 
are unlimited.
For further information regarding 
career opportunities at GRAPHIC, 
contact your placement office.
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS lor ARROW PRODUCTS
tbaLEXbVVDycXEuX iVEalLXT bXd p!SXLhlLXThM f/ba!SLXT :FD R/bT!/ pbhlLEXh
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES A)a ATWOODMU. 2T5209OAKLAND
OPEN MONDAY. WEDNESDAY Jfc FRIDAY TILL 9:80 P.M.
C. W. POST COLLEGESi SNn sGNA CNsIREst c OESSLIsRh SNn sGNA( N(t( eaorawh .a yollaga OoawdGccwaditad ry eiddla tatas Gssociation
Nnw AmmlXs)i AXXhsmAsn)r enS
TWO 5TWEEK SUMMER SESSIONS 
DAY & EVENING
J,)l 24c n J,hj 26c  J,hj 29c n A,i,r 30c
NEW MENS A)a WOMEN'S RESIDENCE HALLS AVAILABLE
A) lxmlXsn)Ah uhl)a ne tnalS)N r,XlSsnS la,mAsn)Ah 
A)a m,h,SAh eAmshsslr n) A SAassn)Ah 126TAmSl mAtX,r 
rls)i: csr sr C. W. Pnr Cnhhlil n) cl NnSc ScnSl 
ne Ln)i IrhA)aN n)l cn,S eSnt tsanw) MA)cAA).
NlASuj ASl eAtn,r ulAmclrN rAshs)i mh,urN 
r,ttlS rnmk clASlrN XASkrN inhe mn,Srlr.
O)TmAtX,r elA,Slr s)mh,al rwstts)iN ijt)Ars,tN 
Ssas)iN unwhs)iN clASl A)a mn)mlSr.
ACCELERATE YOUR DEGREE PROGRAM 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSE neelSs)ir s)mh,al r,aslr s) 
LsulSAh ASr & Smsl)mlrN PSlTPSnelrrsn)AhN PSlTE)is)llSb
s)iN B,rs)lrrN Ea,mAsn)N DA)ml WnSkrcnX.
GRADUATE COURSE neelSs)ir s)mh,al r,aslr s) BsnhnismAh 
Smsl)mlrN Ea,mAsn)N E)ihsrcN G,saA)ml A)a Cn,)rlhs)iN
HsrnSjN LsuSASj Smsl)mlN MAcltAsmrN M,rsm Ea,mAsn) 
A)a PnhssmAh Smsl)ml.
DISTINGUISHED VISITING AND RESIDENT FACULTY 
OUTSTANDING LIBRARY FACILITIES 
APPLY NOW... Aatsrrsn) nXl) n VISITING STUDENTS 
eSnt nclS AmmSlasla mnhhlilr.
FnS Aaassn)Ah s)enStAsn)N r,ttlS u,hhls) A)a AXXhsmAsn)N Xcn)l MAjeAsS 6T1200 nS tAsh mn,Xn)
DsSlmnS ne S,ttlS Smcnnh. C. W. Pnr CnhhlilN P.O.N GSll)GAhlN L.I.. N.Y. "" I
PhlAr rl)a tl S,ttlS Slrrsn)r s)enStAsn) u,hhls). m X 
? Wntl)r Rlrsal)ml HAhh Q Ml)'r Rlrsal)ml HAhh
? U)alSiSAa,Al A GSAa,Al Q DAj Q EGl)s)i
NAtl.......................................................................................................................* Gddwass(((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((((( J
Csj...........................................................................SAl.......................................... *
Ie Gsrss)i r,al)N eSnt which mnhhlil?....................................................... !
After youre married awhile, they say, you begin to look alike. Why wait?

---------------------------------------------------

Page (  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, February 80, 1963
This Week on Campus
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Feb. 20  Brass Choir Concert Exhibition Hall, Fine 
Arts Building  8:00 p.m.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT
Feb. 25  Andrew Mellon Lecture by Harold Clurman, 
visiting Andrew Mellon, Professor, Topic: The Critic, 
The Theater, and the Public,  8:00 p.m., Porter 
Hall 100.
Feb. 23 - March 5  Drama Department Play
Misalliance by George Bernard Shaw, Directed by 
Charles Werner Moore,  Fine Arts Little Theater.
EXHIBITIONS
Hewlett Gallery  Drawings by faculty artists of Am
herst, Mt. Holyoke, Smith, and the University of 
Massachusetts.  To be on exhibit through March 1  
Porter Garnett Gallery in A.H.  Push Pin Studios 
Exhibition  through Feb. 28.
Film Arts Society Presents 
8 Cylinders Ago, The Magician
In an exclusive engagement 
this week, the Film Arts So
ciety of Carnegie Tech proudly 
presents the premiere perfor
mance of a new motion picture. 
To be seen for the first time on 
the East Coast, the shot-subject 
Eight Cylinders Ago will be 
presented with Ingmar Bergmans 
The Magician, the attraction 
this Thursday at Film Arts.
Eight Cylinders Ago was 
produced by William Pence, a 
1962 Tech graduate, now a mem
ber of the motion picture in
dustry, and filmed by a new di
rector, Frank Puncharo. The film
has received special awards at 
both the Vesice and Vancouver 
Film Festivals, and deals in depth 
with rejection in love.
Film Arts considers this new 
short able to stand up admirably 
in the company of the classics of 
the cinema to be shown in this 
years Spring Series  classics 
such as The Hunchback of 
Notre Dame with Lon Channey, 
The Grande Illussion by Jean 
Renoir, Billy Wilders Sunset 
Boulevard, Hitchcocks The 
Thirty-Nine Steps, and ten 
others.
NYU Presents 
Space Program
Twelve pre-doctoral traineeships for studies in space-related 
science and technologyare avail
able at New York University.
Provided by the National Aero
nautics and Space Administra
tion, the traineespips become ef
fective in September 1963 and in
clude stipends of $2,40C per year, 
student alowances of up to $1,000 
per year, and full tuition remis
sion.
Pre-doctoral candidates at any 
level beyond the bachelor degree 
are eligible for these problems of 
study which are designed to ex
tend over a period of three years 
or less. Deadline for application 
is April 1, 1963.
Courses in space-related fields 
offered at NYU include Space 
Mechanics, The Planet Earth, 
Physics of the Higher Atmos
phere, Atmospheres of the Plan
ets, Astrophysics, and Geo
physics and Cosmic Rays.
Application blanks and further 
information may be obtained from 
tho office of Dr. John R. Ragazinni, University Heights, Bronx 
53, New York.
Gallery Shows 
Grads Work
The Pittsburgh Gallery of Fine 
Art at 114 Meyran Avenue in 
Oakland is now presenting an ex
hibition of drawings and relief 
painting by Ed Davin. Mr. Davin 
was born in Pittsburgh and re
ceived his Bachelor of Fine Arts 
degree from Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in 1960 and spent the 
following year in Athens, Ohio 
with a graduate assistance-ship 
at Ohio University. He has taught 
for two years with the Pittsburgh 
Public Schools and is also teach
ing a pre-college course in art at 
Carnegie Tech.
Combining his knowledge as 
both a painter and a sculptor in 
his relief paintings, Mr. Davin 
uses many kinds of materials to 
build up his surfaces which he 
usually paints with polymer tem
pera paints. Hig drawings are gen
erally ink, polymei or pastels.
This exhibit will continue 
through March 7. The Gallery is 
open from 10 until 5, Monday 
through Saturday and from 7 un
til 10 on Wednesday and Friday 
evenings.
Filmgraphics Offers Varied Programs; 
All Showings Are Open To Public
On Tuesday, February 12, 
1963, the monthly showing of 
Filmgraphics was held.
The program included: Zig
zag  an abstract film of bril
liant colors and jagged move
ments of neon advertising; The 
Back-breaking Leaf  a graphic 
picture of the tobacco harvest in 
southwestern Ontario; Long
horns  dance with the use of 
a handsome pair of longhorns; 
The Greek Gods in Art  a
comprehensive record of Classical 
Greek sclupture; and The Aged 
Land  a documentary of con
temporary Greece.
The next showing of Film
graphics will be Tuesday, March 
12, 1963, with such films as:
Pertaining to Chicago, Rhythmetic, Daphni, Humanism, 
and I was a Fireman.
Filmgraphics, sponsored by the 
Department of Graphic Arts, is 
open to the public.
Engineering Trainees $6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
CLB9RIEBRG UY LGLBTYEBRG
Call
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8924
4150 Jl)ks)r ASmAalPittsburgh, 22
Tartan Seeks 
Staff Editors
The time is fast approaching 
when the present TARTAN edi
torial staff must turn over lead
ership of the organization to a 
new group of staff editors. By the 
middle of April the new staff will 
be actively engaged in publishing 
the weekly newspaper while the 
retiring members will step back 
offering only advice if needed.
Any person interested in par
ticipating on the Tartan staff as a 
staff editor for the coming activi
ties year are invited to apply for 
the position in which they are 
interested. Applications will be 
accepted for the positions listed 
on the masthead. Applications 
should include a statement of in
terest, qualifications for the posi
tion, and other activities. Previous 
Tartan experience is helpful but 
not necessary for all positions. All 
applications must be received by 
Friday, March 15, and should b. 
sent to Martin Ackermann, the 
Tartan, in care of Dr. Stricks 
office, Skibo.
Columbia Recruits 
AmericanT eaehers
Teachers College, Columbia 
University is currently recruiting 
100 Americans for secondary 
school teaching positions in Ken
ya, Uganda, Tanganyika, and Zan
zibar. These teachers will poin ap
proximately 270 Ameriians select
ed by Teachers College for serv
ice in East Africa in 1961 and 
1962.
Teachers have been requested 
in the fields of physics, chemistrf, 
biology, mathematics, English, 
history and geography. Arts and 
science graduates and graduating 
seniors with no teaching experi
ence, professionally trained and 
certified graduates with no teachi n g experience, professionally 
trained and certified graduates 
with no teaching experience, and 
experienced teachers are eligible 
to apply for the program. Accept
ed candidates for the program 
will receive training fellowships 
at Teachers College and/or Makerere College, Kampala, Uganda. 
Upon completion of training, the 
teachers will receive two-year ap
pointments as salaried education 
officers in East Africa.
Applications are available from 
the Teachers for East Africa Pro
ject, Teachers College, Columbia 
University, New York 27, N.Y.
Tau Delts Discuss Fraternity 
System During Help Week
As an integral part of the recent Help Week at Tau Delta 
Phi, a series of discussions were held to broaden and en
lighten both the brothers and pledges as to the role of respon
sibility on three distinct levels.
The topic of the first discussion was essentially The Role
of the University in Society,?--------------------------------------------------------
during which the goals of the
University were explored and th ? 
ways in which they contribute to 
and strengthen the society f 
which University is a part. The 
second discussion, lead by Dr. 
Morgan of the Psychology Depart
ment, was mainly concerned with 
The Role of the Fraternity in the 
University, and sought to un
cover the basis for Fraternity ex
istence, and the ways by which it 
might become a more usefu1 mem
ber of its college community. The 
final topic, The Role of the In
dividual in .his Fraternitj, w^ 
discussed at great length and 
demonstrated how the Fraternity 
man can strengthen his Frater
nity through the acceptance of re
sponsibility and the furthering of 
itf ideals.
The primary benefits gained 
from these discussions were not
this certainly cannot be over
looked, but a fuller realization of 
how each level of responsibility 
adds to the preceding one; how 
the Fraternity man can aid his 
Fraternity, his University, and the 
society to which he belongs.
Film Arts
Tickets
Available
[cont from page 1 ] 
Jean Costeaus THE STORM 
WITHIN/
Admission to the Societys 
showings is by subscription only. 
The season ticket includes all 
fourteen films and costs $3.00. 
The tickets are available by mail 
or at the door. Show times are 
on Thursdays at 4:30, 7:00, and
9:30 p.m. For further information 
sc much a greater knowledge - ' or tickets write to TICKETS, Film 
each individual topic, although ' Arts Society, Box 406.
Catelinet Directs Brass Choir 
In Concert At Fine Arts Tonight
The Brass Choir, conducted by 
Philip Catelinet, will present a 
program in the Exhibition Hall, 
Fine Arts College, on Wednesday, 
February 20, at 8:15 p.m. The 
program will consist of music for 
three, four, or seven instruments, 
in addition to pieces written for 
the full 21-piece ensemble.
Works to be presented will include compositions and arrange
ments by Byrd, Maschera, Reiche, 
Monteverdi, and Handel, together 
with contemporary pieces by 
Bradell and Ganz.
This will also be the first per
formance of an arrangement by 
Mr. Calelinet of Giovanni Ga
briels Canzonie e Sonata No. 3 
for antiphonal brass choir.
SHOESSHOES
WALLY'S
ibHA!h  pbFES/d
Women Men
SHOES
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH T PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
LISEILLYEIS UPPUYTUIETELS
enS Sl)snSr A)a GSAa,Alr s) mechanical,
AERONAUTICALN CHEMICALN 
ELECTRICALN NUCLEARN 
and METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING MECHANICS 
APPLIED MATHEMATICS 
PHYSICS A)a * 
ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Pr2tt &Nh,t1eyf,,rcr2ft
MONDAY, FEB. 25
AXXns)tl)r rcn,ha ul tAal 
s) AaGA)ml cSn,ic jn,S 
Cnhhlil PhAmltl) Oeesml
Ureo AinP
wvwtoN or uNiTBOAiRcwArr com
I
An Equal Opportunity Employer
SPLBERGESTS EI PUNLY . . . PUNLY FUY PYUPUGSEUI-PUNLY FUY RUXEGERYY SYSTLCS.
BUYYLIT UTEGEZRTEUIS EIBGUHL REYBYRFTF CESSEGLSF SPRBL VL9EBGLSF CRYEIL RIP EIUUSTYERG RPPGEBRTEUIS.
______________C----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------F-----------

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 20, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 7
FALCONS TOOK CURVES LIKE THESEhundreds upon hundreds of themand proved that roadholding is not a European monopoly. In fact. Sports Illustrated magazine called them "the new 
kings of the mountains" and quoted a London newspaper as declaring, "The Falcons are part of 
a power and performance plan that will shake up motoring in every country of the world."
FALCON IS'NEW KING OF THE MOUNTAINS' IN TOUGHEST 2.500TMILE MONTE CARLO RALLYE
STORMING ALONG IN THE FRENCH DUSK, a Falcon 
plunges into the third night behind the special lights that 
let a Rallye driver see around curves, spot patches of ice, 
penetrate fog.
AtlSsmA'r hsGlhslrN 
tnr mASl eSll mASr!FORD
FALCON  FAIRLANC  FORD  THUNOCRBIRO
FOR 60 YEARS THE SYMBOL OF 
DEPENDABLE PRODUCTS
wrcC
M0TQRCMPANY
SXlmsAh lassn) FAhmn) VT8 "SXSs)" 
alelAr cl wnSha'r ulr s) es)Ah 
490Ttshl lr rlmsn) n) smj 
AhXs)l mhsee SnAar ... cl) 
n,XlSenStr lGlSj rlaA) n) 
eAtn,r Mn)Amn msSm,s!
FAhmn) Xsmkla cl wnSha'r Sn,iclr ws)lS nSalAh 
n SlGlAh A) Arn)srcs)i )lw uSA)a ne CA XlSb
enStA)ml. Fn,S aAjr A)a cSll )sicr cSn,ic A) 
s)elS)n ne smlN r)nwN eSllIs)i eniN l)ahlrr m,SGlr 
2N500 tshlr AiAs)r A) stXhAmAuhl stl rmcla,hlN 
alrsi)la n Sj A mAS'r SlhsAushsjN SnAaTcnhas)i 
A)a XlSenStA)ml n cl ,hstAl. ExXlSr rAsa A 
esSrTstl mAS mn,ha)' cnXl n es)srcA)a wn 
csSar ne cl 296 mntXlsnSr asa aSnX n,. B, 
FAhmn) )n n)hj XhAmla esSr A)a rlmn)a s) sr 
mhArrN s alelAla RNREG mASN SliASahlrr ne mhArrN n) 
cl uS,Ah CcAtulSjTMn)l CAShn es)Ah hliN rl 
ulr stl Atn)i Ahh es)srclSr s) Ahh ne cl rsx 
rXlmsAh lr rlmsn)r A)a rcnwla sr cllhr n 
lGlSj rlaA) s) cl aSAtAsm cSllThAX lhsts)Asn) 
n) Mn)Amn'r eAtn,r Sn,)aTclTcn,rlr mn,Srl. 
Yn, mn,ha)' il ullS XSnne ne CA XlSenStA)ml 
A)jwclSl!
*You can read the dramatic report of the world's 
most rugged winter Rallye in Sports lllustrated's 
February 4 issue. And you can get the full story of 
this and Ford's other total performance accom
plishments from your Ford Dealer.
Turini special section didn't 
" And sure-footed Falcon also 
the Rallye experts by its traction on glare ice.
It means "bootlaces", but to Rallye drivers 
it means an ultimate test of steering, 
stability, brakes and, above all, durability.
BEST OF ALL "TOURING" CATEGORY CARS in the three-lap 
Monaco circuit was the Falcon piloted by Swedish ice expert Bo 
Ljungfeldt. It was surpassed by only three cars, all of them twoseater sports cars in the Grand Touring category.
IF IT'S FORDTBUILTN IT'S BUILT FOR PERFORMANCE...TOTAL PERFORMANCE!

---------------------------------------------------

P*f I  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, February 2#, 1963
TASA)r DlelA WlrlS) RlrlSGl 
FAr BSlAk Klj Tn EArj VsmnSj
By Frank Brady
Carnegie Tech basketball reach
ed one of its season peaks last 
Saturday night as they ran over a 
hapless Western Reserve team, 
77-63. Jules Borkowski and Ray 
Morrison led a driving fast break 
offense that produced a number 
of easy birdies for Tech and head
aches for the Western Reserve 
coach.
Techs pressing zone was re
sponsible for one unbelievable 55 
seconds, late in the second half, 
when Tech ran off 11 points, 
mostly on layups after steals.
Playing without team leader Joe 
Laird, who was out with a sprain
ed ankle, the Tartans began slo,,,) 
and only grabbed the lead at 31- 
29 on an Andy Neidra jumper. 
From then on, Tech kept getting 
bettei.
Jules Borkowski. appearing in 
a starting role for the first time 
in several games, led the team 
writh 23 points. Borkowski hit 11 
for 21 shots from the field for a 
fine 5,5% average. He was follow
ed in the scoring by Ray Morrison 
with 17 points. Andy Neidra 
grabbed a game high of 10 re
bounds and in addition flipped in 
14 points.
Western Reserve jumped Oil to 
a 15-10 vead. thanks to a shaky 
Tech zone defense which allowed 
them several easy layups. Tartan 
coach Mel Cratslev then inserted 
his half court zone press and it 
seemed to be just what the doc
tor ordered. Tech tied the score at 
25-25. on a Neidra jumper, and 
after two more deadlocks went 
ahead to stay, 31-29.
Cupps concerted two foul shots, 
Newell hit a layup and Neidra got 
two more buckets to give Tech a 
39-31 lalftime lead.
The Tartans came back even 
stronger after halftime to run 
their lead out to 24 points at one 
time. Mainly responsible for this 
was the sharp work of outside 
men Morrison and Borkowski. 
Time and again, steals by one re
sulted in a withering two on one 
fast break and a basket for the 
open man.
Following their 11 point out
burst in 55 seconds, when the 
lead was 66-42, the outcome of 
the game was no longer in doubt. 
Techs reserves finished the game 
and Tech coasted in for their final 
score of 77-63.
Particularly encouraging was 
the fact that the team could func
tion well without their only senior 
leys starting lineup included four
starter, Joe Laird. Coach Crats-1 will come into the game with 
sophomores and a junior, and j nothing to lose and everything to 
throughout the game, inserted an- i gain. They could make their presother sophomore and a junior in ence felt. Tech 
addition to the two other seniors 
on the squad. The inference would 
seem to be that next year should 
be an even better one for the 
team.
The win set Techs record at 
7-10, three more wins than were 
recorded' in the entire 61-62 
season.
Tech takes on the St. Vincent 
Bearcats tonight at the Skibo gym.
Game time is 8:15. Tech travels to 
the Johnstown campus of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh next Tues
day to play the Pitt Panthers. Pitt 
is perhaps the strongest quint in 
the area, and is hoping to receive 
a berth in the NCAA regional 
playoffs as an at-large entry. Tech
i;a(taftrbsPipts
McGearv2000200
Neidra1071010114Cupps5265849
Borkowski2011411223MorrisonIS8111117
Werronen3132224
Thomas4100922
Newell3300006
Rizzo1100102-
66 34 
Western
15 9 34 
Reserve
1277
esAeiftaftrbspfpts
Taylor6311647
Lone139515219
Dankulic115006010
Hendricks3200014
Stratigos2211155
Buzas105532413
Dubyak2100002
Sverd3000100
Andraso1e00000
Giesen2111313.
53281373115S3
talk to Lord 
about careers in 
vibration /shock /noise control
t
ONTCAMPUS INTERVIEWS Tc,SraAjN FluS,ASj 28N 1963
See your Placement Office for an interview with the Lord representative.
flieg}' Out/
TONITE AT THE
i
NOW SHOWING 
Thar., t ri Sat.,
Sun.. Man.. Tuev 
Matinee  both in color 
LADY AND THE TRAMP 
and
ALMOST ANGELS 
Evening only 
LAD V AND THE TRAMP
and
Gregory Peck and 
Audrey Hepburn 
OMAN HOLIDAY
Starting Wed. 27
Betty Davis Joan Crawford 
HHATEVER HAPPENED 
TO BABY JANE
also
Charlton Heston 
THE PIGEON THAT 
TOOK ROME
MU. 3T6992
JLjord Manufacturing Company 
ha3 specialized for over 35 years 
in development and application 
of engineered systems to control 
the effects of vibration, shock 
and noise. As the acknowledged 
leader in this field, our technology 
has influenced design and per
formance of mechanical devices 
throughout industry.
wcA anlr LnSa an?
Your career at Lord would involve 
you in such challenging assign
ments as the design, development, 
testing or manufacture of:
 a remarkable family of elastomers 
with broad temperaturecapabilities
 engine mountings for most out
board engines, light aircraft, 
heavy trucks
 a revolutionary traction motor 
mounting for railroad locomotives
 a new concept now being adopted 
for marine dock fendering
 the most sophisticated shock 
attenuation system ever developed 
(cushions 1000 G shocks)
 high-reliability protection for 
inertial guidance systems on all 
major missiles.
These are past accomplishments. 
We are looking for men who can 
accept responsibility, and contrib
ute to our rapid growth and diver
sification.
wcA ASl cl nXXnS,)sslr?
Our field is broad, with challeng
ing opportunities for high-caliber 
graduates interested in: mechani
cal, chemical, industrial, vietallurgical 
and aeronautical engineering ...phys
ical, organic, polymer and rubber 
chemistry...physics and mathematics.
wcA anlr LnSa neelS?
To the qualified man, Lord offers 
...a medium-size company that is 
research-oriented, quality-minded
... rapid professional development
... a creative atmosphere with 
capable associates
... continued learning through 
company programs, advanced 
classes, seminars
... salary commensurate with you* 
contributions
... a pleasant community with good 
cultural, religious, educational and 
recreational facilities.
Carnegie Tech men have capital
ized on this opportunity. Tech 
alumni now hold such positions at 
Lord as Manager of Engineering, 
Product Manager, Engineering 
Supervisor, Design Engineer, Re
search Physicist, Research Engi
neer and Field Engineer.
If the opportunities in vibration/ 
shock/noise control appeal to you, 
investigate further with Lord.
LORO MANUFACTURING COMPANY  ERIEN PENNSYLVANIA.B
0

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 2$, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page C
Penn State 
Rifle Team 
Defeats Tech
Penn State handed the Tartans 
their third straight dereat Sat
urday afternoon at Techs range 
by a score of 1428 to 1386. Mike 
Ray led the Tech sharpshooters 
with a fine 285 score including a 
94 in the standing position. Ed 
Holtgraver came through with a 
281 and Mike Knepley shot 278. 
Scott McCormick and Joe Schlitt 
were fourth and fifth for Car
negie with 272 asd 270.
This Friday, Tech shoots against 
Grove City at home and then 
winds up their practice sessions 
and flies to West Point to com
pete in the Eastern Intercollegiate 
Sectionals.
YSbdh, P/aEh 
PEuVLXT rabSh
The Grad Eagles and Beta 
Theta Pi clinched berths in the 
finals of the intramural bowling 
championships. The Grads rolled 
up an amazing 2598 pin total in 
defeating Obelisk A 2598 to
2395. The Grads were led by 
John Sanders 607 series and had 
little trouble winning in spite 
of a 221 game by Obelisks Jerry 
Rosenblatt.
BTP defeated Sigma Nu 2476 
to 2242 and will meet the Grads 
this Saturday for the I.M cham
pionships.TAKE ARhDIG
CLOSER 
TO YOUR 
FUTURE
T,lraAjN MASmc 12N 
Yn, (A) TAkl A Bsi SlX
If you are a qualified engineering stu
dent who feels your future lies in re
search or applied engineering, be sure 
to see the Linde Company repre
sentative when he is interviewing on 
campus.
The onasp Laboratories provide 
an ideal growth environment for the 
scientific-minded. Significant is the 
fact that, in only 15 years, onasp re
search and applied engineering people 
have created products and facilities 
which now account for more than half 
Of the company's total sales volume.
You can grow as onasp grows. 
Contact your engineering placement 
office now for an appointment.
LINDE 
COMPANY
Ihh) CntXA)jN DsGsrsn) ne U)s eASusa CnSXnSAh*
AN EQUAL-OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
rAbSSEuh WLX 
nbOV/ n/XXLh
The Undergrad Sparrows, a 
dorm team, easily wrapped the 
intramural table tennis champion
ships by trouncing the Grad 
Eagles and Beta Theta Pi in the 
championships. The Sparrows 
four-man team of Venu Chari, 
Ralph Kilmoyer, Dan Punzak, and 
oohn Singel won three straight 
from the Grad Eagles in the semi
final round and then beat the 
Betas 3 games to 1 in the finals. 
The Grad Eagles beat Beta Sig in 
the consolation round.
FINAL STANDINGS 
American League W.
Undergrad Sparrows 7 
BSR A 6
KS 4
DTD B 4
Grad Eagles B 2
Sigma Nu' A l
TDP Blue o
BTP B 0
National League W.
BTP A 7
Grad Eagles A 5
DTD A 5
ATO A 3
Trojan W 3
TX , l
Sigma Nu B 0
BSR B 0
L.
0
1
3
3
4 
3
5 
5
L.
0
1
2
3
4
4
5 
5
ATO Places 
Four Men On 
All Star Team
Campus volleyball champs ATO 
dominated the I.M. All-Star selec
tions placing four men on the first 
two squads. Runnersup SAE put 
three men on as did fourth place 
TDP. Two players from the third 
place Grad Eagles rounded out 
the two teams. In the balloting for 
Most Valuable Player, hard-spik
ing Fred Kosofsky of the Grad 
Eagles came out on top over Mide 
Yablon, a fine spiker from TDP.
All Star Volleyball Teams: 
First Team: 1. Chip McKnight 
ATO, 2. Tom BlackwoodATO, 
3. Mike YablonTDP, 4. Harvey 
GammonSAE, 5. Fred Kosofsky 
Grads, 6. Walt HornTDP.
Second Team: 1. Steve Foels 
ATO. 2. John BertucciATO, 3. 
Tom FerenceTDP, 4. Alan TamarelliSAE, 5. Joe LeesGrads, 
6. Frank JonesSAE.
All-schoolIM Volleyball team seated, left to right: Fred Kosofsky, 
Grads; Walt Horn, TDP; Harvey Gammon, SAE. Standing left to 
right: Mike Yablon, TDP; Tom Blackwood, ATO; Chip McKnight, ATO.
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack . . . or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
Gl L,mkj
FhAj "CSAIj Q,lrsn)r
IH NPbh/d on al/ lLVbSLE!h OEEc Unl/ C!/haLEX vEXsG
50 BRS9 RNRYHS R CUIT9. LITLY IUN. 9LYLS 9UN:
FsSrN cs)k ne A) A)rwlS. A)j A)rwlS. Tcl) mntl ,X wsc 
A ),jN r,SXSsrs)i o,lrsn) enS sN A)a jn,Gl an)l A 
CSAIj Q,lrsn). I'r cl lArj )lw wAj enS r,al)r n 
tAkl hnn. S,aj cl lxAtXhlr ulhnwN cl) an jn,S nw). 
Sl)a cltN wsc jn,S )AtlN AaaSlrrN mnhhlil A)a mhArrN 
n GET LUCKYN Bnx 64FN M. VlS)n) 10N N. Y. Ws))s)i 
l)Sslr wshh ul AwASala $25.00. Ws))s)i l)Sslr r,ub
tsla n) cl s)rsal ne A L,mkj SSskl wSAXXlS wshh il A 
$25.00 un),r. E)lS Ar nel) Ar jn, hskl. SAS Ssic )nw!
RULES: Tcl Rl,ul) H. Dn))lhhlj CnSX. wHI j,ail l)Sslr n) cl uArsr ne 
c,tnS (,X to %)N mhASsj A)a eSlrc)lrr (,X n %) A)a AXXSnXSsAl)lrr (,X 
n %). A)a clsS almsrsn)r wshh ul es)Ah. D,XhsmAl XSsIlr wshh ul AwASala 
s) cl lGl) ne slr. E)Sslr t,r ul cl nSsis)Ah wnSkr ne cl l)SA)r A)a 
t,r ul r,utsla s) cl l)SA)'r nw) )Atl. TclSl wshh ul 50 AwASar 
lGlSj tn)cN OmnulS cSn,ic AXSsh. E)Sslr SlmlsGla a,Ss)i lAmc tn)c 
wHI ul mn)rsalSla enS cA tn)c'r AwASar. A)j l)Sj SlmlsGla AelS AXSsh
30N1963N wshh )n ul lhsisuhlN A)a Ahh ulmntl cl XSnXlSj ne Tcl AtlSsmA) 
TnuAmmn CntXA)j. A)j mnhhlil r,al) tAj l)lS cl mn)lrN lxmlX ltb
Xhnjllr ne Tcl AtlSsmA) TnuAmmn CntXA)jN sr AaGlSsrs)i Ail)mslr A)a 
Rl,ul) H. Dn))lhhljN A)a SlhAsGlr ne cl rAsa ltXhnjllr. Ws))lSr wshh ul 
)nsesla uj tAsh. Cn)lr r,ujlm n Ahh elalSAhN rAlN A)a hnmAh Sli,hAsn)r.
I THE ANSWER: 
I 
!
I THE ANSWER: 
I
I THE ANSWER: I 
IA FAREWELL
n u.ia>seaMVON Iiep33 *oy 
jn jOAnnasjr ,lsX)Ajj l 
Ar) )nX Xs)nM hlsjM :NOIJ.S3e 3Hs
Atn Ajou13 spiouAsy pieuoa 
ajo, dqi o )no ajiM 
rso Xjjb, ubo moh :N0hhS3) 3H1
THE ANSWER:
A Stones 
Throw
A!Ufi U01S08 'z;|ABS or 
mei|O0 UJOJJ pue*s 
pjAeQ pip Je* AAOH : N0IJLS3D 3Hi
I THE ANSWER: 
I
*1(00 ej)sjOH 'uospof g pjeqoiy
,n|| nos ns rj),lAa XAj Xno A|H!h no* 
,AoM XA,Aaalo }loM :N0hhS3eh 3H1
I THE ANSWER: I(Sinstctn i NOEL
oSesigo jo *Aiun 'ssow mqesoy
S)s, jAAo
A,n )ln )nX nX jloM =NOIhS3) 3H1
O UjajsaMqviON ijsnig y ssuiep
nSlnson ,s A^,jr ,noljnar,ljs e 
to iinsaj aq s.*eMM :NOIlS3f1 3H1
THE ANSWER IS:Gel Luckythe taste to start with.. .the taste ta stay with
THE QUESTION IS: WHAT CIGARETTE SLOGAN HAS THE INITIALS GL rw ... 
rw? Nn o,lrsn) Aun, sN cl Arl ne A L,mkj rXnshr jn, enS nclS msiASllr.
Tcsr Arl sr cl ulr SlArn) n rAS wsc L,mkslr... cl usi SlArn) L,mkj rtnklSr jm 
rAj L,mkj rtnklSr. A)a L,mkslr ASl cl tnr XnX,hAS Sli,hASTrsIl msiASll V7 
Atn)i mnhhlil r,al)r. TSj A XAmk naAj. Gl L,mkj.
4( w( <%(Product ofour midU namt

---------------------------------------------------

paffe 10  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, February ??. 196S
IM Basketball Opens As 
Forty-Nine Teams Play
Intramural basketball opened 
last week with most opening 
games going pretty much as ex
pected. The only real upset was 
a 36-32 victory by Finks B 
over TDP "Blue. Wenks was 
the high Fink with 11 points. 
Ih another game in the Lakers 
League, TDP evened its record 
with a 38-37 victory over DU 
B and a 34-27 win over Finks 
B. Paprans an-d Do>vdle to
talled 48 points between them in 
these two games. SAE A also 
won two with a forgeit victory 
over the Trotters and a 40-25 de
cision over Dunker A. Gammon 
scored 15 for SAE in this one. 
In other games, PKA edged the 
Dunkers A 18-13 and the Trot
ters forfeited to DU B.
In the Royals league, ATO A 
squeezed by BTP B 63-5 and 
nipped TDP "White 72-18. Steve 
Foels racked up 32 points in
these two contests. The Vulcans also won two games, beat
ing TDP White 46-14 and DTD 
57-33 with Chuck Costanya run
ning up 39 points. DU A used 
a well-balanced scoring attack to 
beat the E. E. Grads 61-30 and 
the Architects 52-25. The Archi
tects evened their record with a 
35-22 win over DTD while the 
E. E. Grads even their with a
Opening round action in IM basketball was fast and furious, as 28-24 victory over BTP B.
shown by this scuffle for the ball. Sigma Nu A took undisputed
possession of first place in the 
Celtic League by beating the Tro
jans B 48-28 and KS B 59- 
13. Andy Logan scored 26 in the 
second game for SN. Beta Sig 
edged the Ferndocs 35-31, BTP 
A clobbered the Finks A 46- 
9, and the Grad Eagles B beat 
KS B 66-24 to create a threeway tie for second place. The 
Ferndocs beat the Trojans B 
48-27 to round out the league 
play.
The Roadrunners jumped into 
first place in the Warriors League 
beating ATO T 30-23 and the 
Dunkers B by forfeit. The Tro
jans W clobbered TX 64-26, 
PKT A beat ATO T 38-22, 
and the Met Grads clobbered the 
Jaweewees 47-14 to set up a 
three-way second place tie.. In 
I the remaining major league 
games, Dunkers B forfeited to 
TX.
The minor leagues found the 
Scorpions beating GDI 50-20, SAE 
beating PKA J 37-18, the Mar
auders taking the Clyde St. A.C. 
35-15, the BTP Greeks over 
the Morlocks 31-14, the Whales 
oyer Banzai 55-31 and DTD B 
61-14, ATO O degreating Ban
zai 34-26, the Rodicals over DTD 
B 36-24, and finally the Finks 
over PKT J 20-13.
why more people smoke Winston than any other filter cigarette. 
Flavor does it every timerich, golden tobaccos specially 
selected and specially processed for filter smoking!
WIT 'WV. ' Jr IH cw
YEA 
TEAMf,ght...f,ght...f,ght...Fg,ve em...the 2xthe 2xthe 2x...ho6d6th2t6,1ef,ght...f,ght...f,ght...
...YEA
TEAMwhew p2use
Bnhla ,)alS cl A,cnSsj ne 
Tcl CnmATCnhA CntXA)j uj:
QtJAKKR STATIC COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, PcnmrlvHW
PURE WHITEN * 
MODERN FILTER !
Xh,r : FILTER T BLEND UP FRONT
3 Y J. Ysjf1oC Tu72,co CAARNEGIST N,mto1- Su6emF N. 2 #
0
Akl A uSlAk.. 
cs)ir in ullS * 
wsc Cnkl
T*AO*MAl 

---------------------------------------------------

n:iBenr  *2.50N $3.50
Now on Sale Ai 
SKIBO DESK 
Also at Hornes
Ten percent Discount at 
Sltibo Desk only.
For Mail Orders Write: 
Shows, Ine.
Box 532 
Prh. 3#, Pa.
Swimmers Edge Westminster; 
Last Year's Victories Equalled
Wednesday, February ACR 1S3  CARNEGIE TECH  Pape 1)
The Tartan swimmers won their 
third meet of the season in thrill
ing fashion as they just edged the 
Westminster Titans 48-47 at the 
'f-Titans pool on Saturday, Febru
ary 16. The win equaled the total 
in the victory coloumn for the 
last season. As of this writing the 
Tartans have two remaining meets 
f the regular season in which 
they can better this years 3-5 re
cord or last years 3-8 mark.
The meet was extremely close 
throughout, with the lead chang
ing twice and there being a tie at 
^ the end of an event three times.
" * Tech started it off with their best 
time of the season (4:30.0) as 
Wyman, Specht, Burdett and 
Snow captured the 400 Medley 
Relay. Andrews then took the 200 
freestyle easily, and the Tartans 
held their biggest lead of the day, 
12-4. Westminster then swept the 
60 yard freestyle, and the score 
was 13-12. The Titans then pro
ceeded to knot the score at 17-17 
as they took the 160 Individual 
<P Medley with Lester and Brunson 
of Tech holding close with second 
and third. Westminster then mov
ed out to a seven point lead as 
they swept the diving. Wyman 
then won the 200 Butterfly with 
Burdett second, tying the score 
again at 26-26. Wyman smashed 
th. Tech record for this event, 
held by Dick Line, by more than 
a second as he negotiated the dis
tance in 2:34.1
A sweep jy the Titans in the 
100 freestyle pushed the Tartans 
back to the wall again as the hope 
of winning the final 400 relay was 
looking bleak. At this point the 
Tartans rallied. Lester captured 
the 200 backstroke in 2:45, just 
beating French, who had been a 
freestyler since the first meet. The 
event was extremely closej and 
Techs best time of the season in 
the event was needed to win. The 
I score was again deadlocked at 35- 
35.
Andrews then easily won the 
500 freestyle and gained a one 
point lead for Tech which was to 
be the winning margin. Tech 
needed a sweep in the 200 breast 
stroke to win. Lester, swimming 
his third individual event of the 
day, all 200 yard races, came up 
from fourth place after the first 
100 to touch out teammate Specht 
f who had held a three foot lead 
over the Titans leader throughout 
most of the event. Specht posted 
his best effort by about six sec
onds in the event while Lester, re
gaining form after an injury, 
equaled his best. This gave Tech 
the lead at 48-40.
As anticipated, Tech was no
SATURDAY
FEB. 23 - 8:30 p.m.
SOLDIERS A SAILORS 
MEMORIAL HALL
match for the Titan sprinters in 
the last relay. Despite Tech's best 
time of the season by three sec
onds, and the best time in more 
than two years, Tech was unable 
to wir. Andrews tremendous ef
fort in the last leg of the relay 
(unofficially 55.0) wasnt enough 
as the Titans won by two seconds, 
and the final score was 48-47.
Special salutes are to be given 
to Len Lester, Geary Andrews. 
Frank Wyman, Dave Specht, and 
Bill Burdett, the leading scorers, 
respectively. Lesters two firsts 
and a second marked the highest 
point total for the season by a 
single man (13). Andrews won 
two events, while Wyman smash
ed a four year old school mark in 
the butterfly. Specht posted their 
best times in the opening relay 
and in their individual events.
The Tartans close out their, reg
ular season at Case next Satur
day, February 23, and are looking 
forward to the Penn-Ohio Cham
pionships to be held at Slippery 
Rocks new pool the following 
Saturday, March 2.
400 yds. Medley Relay T (Wy
man, Specht, Burdett, Snow),
4:30.0; 200 yd. Free Andrews (T) 
2:06.2, Hengerer (W), Moore (W); 
60 yd. Free Schade (W) 31.0, 
Phillips (W), French (T); 160
yds. Ind. Medley Blaze (W) 1:56.0, 
Lester, (T), Brunson (T); Dive 
Frederick (W), Bonney (W), Ben
nett (T); 200 yd. Butterfly Wy
man (T) 2:34.1, (Tech Record), 
Burdett (T), Hustwitt (W); 100 
yd. Free Schade (W) 57.4, Blaze 
(W), Brunson (T); 200 yd. Back 
Lester (T) 2:45, French (T),
Woods (W); 500 yds. Free An
drews (T) 6:13.6, Hengerter (W), 
Woolverton (W); 200 yd. Breast 
Lester (T) 2:43.3, Specht (T),
Carey (W); 400 yd. Relay (W); 
(Blaze, Schade, Phillips, Woolver
ton) 3:52.3.
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters. reasonable 
rates. Themes. Theses. Manuscripts. 
Term Papers. Applications, etc. Spelling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman
Combe. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
FOR RENT  2 Squirrel Hill Apart
ments. 4 room; 3rd. floor. Stove and 
refrigerator. $72.50. March 1. Also, large 
2nd. floor on Murray. HA. 1-9889.
FSA)k Ahk Aun, jnw cAsS: VsAhsr wsc VT7 
kllXr jn,S cAsS )lA Ahh aAj wscn, iSlArl.
NA,SAhhj.VT7 sr cl iSlArlhlrr iSnnts)i asrmn GlSj .VsAhsr 
wsc VT7<i> esicr ltuASSArrs)i aA)aS,eeN XSlGl)r aSjb
)lrrN kllXr jn,S cAsS )lA Ahh aAj wscn, iSlArl. TSj s!
THE BELL TELEPHONE 
SALUTE: BOB FISK
Bob Fisk (B.A., 1954) joined New England Telephone 
in Boston during 1957 and in less than three years was 
promoted to the position of Accounting Manager.
Quite an accomplishment when you consider Bob is 
responsible for the work of five supervisors and 45 em
ployees! He needs a staff this large to handle the immense 
job of preparing monthly bills for southeast Boston.
COMPANIES
Bob earned his latest promotion after outstanding per
formance on earlier assignments as a Supervisory Assistant 
and Directory Staff Assistant.
Bob Fisk and other young men like him in Bell Tele
phone Companies throughout the country help bring the 
finest communications service in the world to the homes 
and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, February 2, 1963
West Virginians Outswim Tankmen; 
Andrews Only Tech Victor In Rout
Two Tech pool records were set 
by West Virginias Russ Irvine as 
the Mountaineers toppled the 
Tartans on Wednesday afternoon, 
February 13, by a 72-23 score. The 
Mountaineers started off the meet 
and easily coasting to victory 
with a 4:11.5 time, by loading 
the first relay with their four 
strongest swimmers. Techs An
drews then captured hte 200 free
style (2:07.2). He later came back 
in the 100 freestyle (55.7) to com
plete the Tartans victory list for 
the afternoon. Only John Bennett 
in the diving and Bill Burdett in 
the 200 Butterfly were able to
Tech swimmer begins 100-yard freestyle.
SENIORS
Looking For Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
capture second places. In most of 
the other events, Tech lost the 
battle for second place and third 
place by very narrow margins to 
West Virginias second line power.
Irvine, a powerful swimmer to 
say the least, was easily the star 
of the day. In the grueling 200 
Butterfly (2:11.4) he bettered the 
pool mark by 8.6 seconds and then 
came back two events later to 
smash the 500 freestyle mark by 
15.8 seconds (5:41.6). In addition, 
he swam a powerful lep in the 100 
Butterfly in the opening medley 
relay. Andrews led the way for 
Tech with his dual victories, fol
lowed by Bennett, Burdett and 
Wyman.
400 yr. Medlay Relay W (Crago, Koh 
ler, Irvine, Erb), 4:11.5; 220 yr. Free An. 
drews (Tt 2:07.2; Wisler (WVU) Wanda 
(WVUl; 50 yr. Free Brindle (WVU) 25.1; 
Stamolis (WVU, McCloy (T); 200 yd. 
Ind. Medley, Kohler (WVU), 2:23.1, 
Means (WVUi, Lester (T), Dive Crago 
(WVU) 200.7, Bennett (T), Snow (T); 
200 yd. Butterfly Irvine (WVU), 2:11.4, 
Burdett (T), Wyman (T); 100 jS. Free 
Andrews (T) 55.7, Erb (WVU), Fishback (WVU); 200 yr. Back Crago, (WVU) 
2:39.9, Kohler (WVU) Lyman (T); 440 
yd. Free Irvin (WVU) 5:41.6, Wisler 
(WVU), French (T>; 200 ja. Breast
Means (WVU) 2:44.4, Wanda (WVU [ 
Specht (T); 400 yd. Relay WVU (Brincle, 
Fishback, Stamolis, Erb), 3:45.9.
Wl mS/ bAAD aE :XFLa/ 'E! aE zLhLa o!S t/u raES/
Goldenfelds r/Vf T SlSGl Market
4525 Forbes Avenue at Craig Street
formerly 414 S. Craifg Street
 We Carry The Most Complete Line Of Select 
Groceries  Choice Meats  Dairy Products 
Frozen Food  Fresh Fruits and Vegetables 
Dietetic Fruits and Vegetables  Also a Complete Line 
of General Merchandise Including a Delicatessen
Sciulli On 
DeBolt Show
Mr. Frank Sciulli, Physical 
Education Division, Department of 
Towels, Carnegie Tech, will be a 
special guest of Earl Birdy on his 
DeBolt Busload of Sports, to be 
heard on WRCT campus radio, 
tomorrow, Thursday, February 21, 
at 6:15 P.M.
Film Arts
Presents
AN EERIE 
JOUKNEY INTO 
THE UNKNOWN .
Ingmar Bergman's
*R jewe6ed 7orro t26e!'
I(SCE iRE(SCnswm n
'LLYELF YRALGRESERIF 
LXBETEIS!" N Y. r.m>
Thursday, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Porter 9266 100
plus
The East Coast Premiere of
"Esic Cjhs)alSr Ain"
Winner of Short Subject 
Award at Venice and 
Vancouver 
Film Festivals
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
Yn,hh SAl wsc 'jn,S aAl...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
kotei Wefcitot/ Hoff,
4413 Fsec Pstu,Sic 13N PA.Th*XHn<> MAjehnww 1T7700
Yesu6t: "Bush,o1 Yeco,6OO prov,des 2' 
dr2m2t,c266y smoother r,de 
,1 1O63 Ford-7u,6t c2rs
Tcl mcAhhl)il isGl) FnSa l)is)llSr wAr n alrsi) r,rXl)rsn)r 
cA wn,ha XlSts wcllhr GsS,Ahhj n Snhh wsc cl X,)mclr)n 
n)hj s) A GlSsmAh XhA)l u, enSlTA)aTAe Ar wlhh. Cn)Gl)sn)Ah 
r,rXl)rsn) rjrltr XSnGsal n)hj A XASsAh rnh,sn) n SnAa rcnmkr 
uj hstss)i wcllh Slmnsh n A) ,XTA)aTanw) tnsn).
Tcl rnh,sn)? Exmh,rsGl C,rcsn) Rlmnsh r,rXl)rsn) alrsi) s) Ahh 
FnSaTu,sh mASr enS 63! C,rcsn) RlmnshN wsc m,rcsn)s)i Amsn) 
s) A enSlTA)aTAe XhA)l Ar wlhh Ar GlSsmAhN rtnclSr cl jASr A)a 
jnhr ne Sn,ic SnAarN Aaar n jn,S mntenSN rAeljN A)a aSsGs)i 
XhlAr,Sl. EGl) cl c,tX ne eSllwAj AS rSsXr sr Sla,mlaN A)a 
n) allXhj S,la SnAar jn, lxXlSsl)ml ullS mn)Snh ne cl mAS. 
F,SclStnSlN jn,S FnSaTu,sh mAS sr rXASla cl wlAS A)a lAS ne 
SnAaTs)a,mla GsuSAsn).
A)nclS Arrsi)tl) mntXhllan)l tnSl lxAtXhl ne l)is)llSb
s)i lxmlhhl)ml A FnSa A)a )lw salAr enS cl AtlSsmA) RnAa.
SOAKS UP ROAD SHOCK. Exmh,rsGl FnSa 
MnnS CntXA)j C,rcsn) Rlmnsh Amsn) tnGlr 
uAmk Ar well Ar ,X enS A rtnnclS Ssal.
CUTUY BUCPRIY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP
V
