[he Tartan
Volume 67Number 7Wednesday, October 18, 1967
Peace Demonstration Held On Campus ^7: New TraditionFor New Universityby E. W. Seeley
L. B. J., L. B. J., how many 
kids have you killed today? 
chanted peace marchers on the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus at 9:44 
pm, Monday, October 16.
CMU students, faculty, and 
administrators turned out to 
catch a glimpse of the proces
sion, and perhaps gain an un
derstanding of what mobiliza
tion for peace implies. Walnut 
I Street Hippies, University of 
Pittsburgh enthusiasts, and lo 
cal press personnel tromped 
eagerly across the "cut to satis
fy their unsolicited curiosity.
Gathered around a cut lamp
post, the crowd broke into I 
Ain't Gonna Study War No 
More, mixed with cries of Vic
tory in Vietnam. Opposing fac
tions (peace-makers vs. warLmongers) shouted slogans, ham 
mering out an hypnotic cross
fire of phrases.
What do we want?
PEACE.
When do we want it?
NOW
Peace cries clashed with 
screams of Victory in Viet 
nam.
A cry from a loud speaker 
quieted yelling groups. Monsignor Rice of Pittsburgh address
ed the gathered. He stated that 
men were not put on earth to 
destroy other men, to snuff-out 
human lives. Rice explained that 
the torch of peace, which had 
journeyed from Hiroshima, was 
the symbol of our guilt for the 
atrocities created by man 
|through technology. The atom 
ic bomb was dropped on an 
Asiatic people, a colored people, 
it produced death. We should 
stop worrying about destruction 
and concentrate on continuing 
civilization, added Rice. In the 
name of God, we (the people of 
the United States) are strong 
enough to destroy the world 
we will destroy ourselves.
The crowd mumbled AMEN 
and a long applause followed 
Msgr. Rices bland sermon on 
peace and mans inhumanitari
an behavior.
An invitation to the gathering 
beckoned individuals forward 
who support current United 
States policy in Vietnam. A boy 
stepped out of the crowd, grab 
bed the torch and shouted, 
WAR! A voice over the micro
phone repeated the plea for op 
position statements, but failed 
to elicit any response.
A telegram from Senator Jo 
seph Clark and a letter from 
the French Union of Women 
were addressed to the crowd. 
Fach expressed sympathetic sen
timents for peace.
A University of Pittsburgh 
student spoke briefly in grost 
Httmeralizations concerning theppl world this generation had 
herited from its parentage. He 
failed to support his statements 
with concrete evidence, i.e. facts. 
He professed that a mass exodus 
continued of American citizens 
seeking refuge in Canada, avoid 
ing the draft. We will build
instead of destroy, explained 
the student in concluding^ hi? 
speech.
From the skirt of the crowd 
a uniformed soldier pressed 
through its ranks and knocked 
the peace torch from the hands 
of its bearer. The crowd hud
dled tightly around the soldier 
rnd squirmed in agitation. Earl 
R. Swank, dean of students at 
C-MU, pushed into a potentially 
angry mob and quelled the ag 
r ivation.
Hitler  Speak, demanded 
crowd members. The soldier 
was removed.
A plea for funds to support 
the mobilization movement con
cluded the demonstration. In ad 
dition, peace organization mem
bers had planted a booth near 
the gathering to collect coins 
and distribute buttons and ban
ners to interested persons. Thi:\ 
activity violated the agreement 
made with C-MU in permitting 
the peace marchers to appear 
on campus.'
Why did people attend the 
rally? Comments from on-look
ers ranged from, An affir 
mation of our faith, to the stan
dard, Curiosity. One student 
felt that people should, Make 
babies, not war.
George K. Brown, dean of stu
dent affairs, C-MU, commented 
that the expectation of the ad 
ministration was that of a rea
sonably orderly demonstration 
however, school offocials had 
received mistaken details con
cerning this organization.
West Va. Singers 
Feature of Ceilidh
Three of West Virginias fin
est traditional music perform
ers will be featured in concert 
Saturday, October 28, at 8:30 
pm in Carnegie Lecture Hall, 
Oakland, as the second season 
of folk music events sponsored 
by Carnegie Ceilidh and the 
Pittsburgh Folklore Society gets 
underway.
This years series will bring 
such outstanding performers 
to Pittsburgh as Pete Seeger, 
Frank Warner, and British 
singers Lou Killen, Norman
Homecoming 1967, The Sights 
and Sounds of the Sixties, will 
present The Ray Charles Show 
on Friday night, for what is 
generally agreed to be the best 
entertainment to appear on cam
pus in the last 10 years.
Homecoming, really a coming 
back home for the alumni, will 
coordinate student and alumni 
activities by encouraging in
creased inter-involvement be
tween the present students and 
the alumni. The weekend will 
officially start for the alums 
with the registration in Skibo 
at noon on Friday. For the stu
dents, the weekend is officially 
opened by the newly crowned 
Homecoming Queen at the Car
negie Music Hall Friday night 
before the Ray Charles Show at 
8:30 pm. After the concert, the 
fraternities and dorms will have 
parties in anticipation of the 
Homecoming victory over Frank
lin and Marshall.
On Saturday, a pre-game pa
rade starting at Morewood Gar
dens will lead the fans to the 
game. After celebrating the vic
tory with a dance in Skibo to 
the sounds of the Ithacas, the 
scene returns once again to Ski
bo for the Saturday evening 
featuring Gary Glenn and the 
Jeweltones. Gary will be per
forming his nightclub rendition 
of the original James Brown 
show at 11:00 pm, giving late
comers a chance to see this 
change of pace entertainmnt. 
The dress for both Friday and 
Saturday nights will be semiformal.
The tickets will be on sale in 
Baker Hall lobby from 10:30- 
2:30 daily, as well as in the 
bookstore and in Donner Hall 
basement.
Kennedy, and Maggie Kerr 
Peirce. In addition, Pitts
burghs finest gospel singers 
and local folksingers will be 
heard in separate concerts. 
The opening concert will fea
ture three performers for whom 
traditional music is still a way 
of life: Russell Fluharty of Mannington, W. Va. expert on the 
Dulcimer; Aunt Jenny Wilson 
of Peach Creek, W. Va., who 
plays the five-string banjo with 
a unique two-finger style; and 
Frank George of Bluefield, W. 
Va., champion banjo, fiddle and 
bagpipe performer.
The unique feature of the con
cert is that these are not re
vival musiciansurban perfor
mers who have learned tradi(Continued on Page 4)
Schlesinger Speaks Out 
Against Viet Nam Policy
Return Human Relations 
Commission questionnaire to 
Skibo 103 or Warner Hall 
205 immediately so that sta
tistics to be compiled from 
these forms will be represen
tative and accurate.
by John
Noted historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., in a speech at Chat 
ham College on October 11, join
ed the ranks of politicians, mili
tary, and private citizens who 
have expressed their dissatisfac
tion with the administrations 
Vietnam policy.
However, his criticism did 
not come in the shape of for
mal accusations of the John
son administration. Unlike the 
military who point out that 
victory in Vietnam is far off, 
and the private citizen who is 
inflamed by the unjustness of 
the war and its needless cas
ualties, Mr. Schlesinger used 
history to prove his point.
In February, 1965, said Mr. 
Schlesinger, the administration 
took a new course of action in 
Vietnam. Up to this date our 
commitments in South Vietnam 
were those made by President 
Kennedy and consisted of a 
small force of advisory person
nel. The administration did not 
have a clear idea on the Viet
nam situation. There were con
flicting reports issued from 
there, and in the face of this 
uncertainty, the administration 
based its action on the success 
of previous events. In trying to 
explain the policy of escalation, 
seven assumptions were made. 
These assumptions stated the 
reason for escalation and the 
goal to be reached by it.
Administration Presents 
Seven Assumptions 
to Explain Escalation
The first assumption was tha: 
the escalation will break the will 
to fight of the North Vietnamese 
and force them to come to the 
bargaining table.
The second assumption was 
that escalation would stop the 
infiltration into South Vietnam 
oT men and supplies used for 
the subversion of the govern
ment.
Thirdly, the administration 
argued that escalation would 
lessen casualties.
The fourth assumption was 
that escalation would foster the 
beginning of a democratic form 
of government by making pos
sible a representative govern
ment.
The fundamental defense of 
escalation is expressed in the 
fifth assumption which proposed 
that the U.S. is holding the line 
against Communism. President 
Johnson is convinced that Viet
nam is not the last arena for 
cold war conflict.
The sixth assumption was that 
our presence in Vietnam proves 
to our allies that the U.S. will 
keep its commitment every
where.
The final assumption was to 
allow the military to run the 
war the way they saw fit. It is 
the job of the military to make 
war.
Fallacies Pointed Out 
With these seven assumpMera
tions in mind Mr. Schlesinger 
proceeded to show that each 
one of these assumptions turn
ed out differently, either by 
having reverse consequences 
or because the assumption 
was incorrect when it was 
made.
After 32 months the result of 
the bombings of North Vietnam 
and increased ground action has 
not weakened the determination 
of the Viet Cong. They are more 
determined to fight, Mr. Schles
inger said, and are not willing 
to talk peace. The escalation is 
an obstacle to peace talks and 
has caused the reverse to hap 
pen.The second assumption was 
proved just as wrong as the 
first, by Mr. Schlesinger. Esca
lation has caused a counter es
calation. Our use of more so
phisticated weapons made Rus
sia and China supply weapons 
to equalize ours. Today North 
Vietnam has anti-aircraft mis
siles, heavy artdlerry and air
planes.The third assumption was 
made erroneously. Any kind of 
escalation, whether in the air or 
on the ground, increases not de
creases casualties. Statistics 
show, Mr. Schlesinger points 
out, that more than half of all 
Americans killed in Vietnam 
have died since the escalation 
began 32 months ago.
On the political front an elec
tion was held thds year. Thd 
President sent his team of ob
servers to make sure no irregu
larities occured and that a fair 
election takes place. However, 
the same faces reappeared. Gen
eral Thiev and his escalation po
licy have received 35 per cent of 
the votes.
There has been a suppression 
of the press in Vietnam. The 
people are not commited to the 
government and their self deter
mination has not been strength
ened. The military who are in 
power have not taken an interest 
in the problems of the private 
citizen and their way of fighting 
the war is inefficient. The U.S. 
has taken over the wax and the 
economy of South Vietnam, Mr. 
Schlesinger said.
The fifth assumption turned 
out to be wrong also. "One can
not believe that Ho Chi Mmh 
would start a campaign of Cora 
munist expansion if he won in 
Vietnam. Vietnam is not the 
obedient instrument of Chinese 
expansion. The history of Viet
nam has been marked by re
sentment of the Ciiinese, but 
the U.S. escalation has driven 
the two countries together. 
Therefore, Mr. Schlesinger con
cludes, North Vietnam could act 
as a buffer zone against Ch 
nese expansion.
Effectiveness in Meeting 
Convictions Damaged
The U.S. intervention as es 
(Continued on Page 2)
Homecoming Starts Friday

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 18, 1967
Sfatico'iS Vy ArtisInternational
fa Artistic Hairstyling ExpertRazor Sculpture Cutting
207 Oakland Ave. & And plain Cut 
Below Forbea Ave. By Appointment 682-3736
Presents live 
entertainment nightly
REID JAYNES 
at the keyboard
WED. Songstress TINY IRVIN ! 
THE REID JAYNES TRIO
# 229 S. Highland Ave. THURS.: ^y popular request
EAST LIBERTY FRI.r THE REID JAYNES
362-8200 SAT.: JR|Q
DIRK BOGARDE 
in HAROLD PINTER - JOSEPH LOSEY Production
o*xL ttm, .
SPECIAL STUDENT MATINEE
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21 !
LIVE ON STAGE AT 1:30 .m.
.mParprheP nl.aeiS.T
Paraphernalia
114 MEYRAN AVE.-OAKLAND 
where the fashions are 
unabashedly different.
UDE NREAOU tn E*U uUMOH
[heT artn Pic** FRED ZINNkMANN'Snu.orl
A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS!
Kro, he ,0., b> h( )BKirr w a ;r  technicolor* SPj
Student Admission$1.50
RESERVED SEATS AVAILABLE 
NOW AT BOX-OFFICE
^Jhroufyh rzCoohincj . . .
Fonda In WonderlandThe Trip
... by TIMOTHY BAY
The imaginative use of color, imagery and atmosphere ele
vates The Trip above the strictly commercial job that Universal 
probably intended.
Reportedly, before making this film, the director, Roger Corman, as part of his research, took LSD under controlled condi
tions. This research pays off in the film. There is, throughout 
The Trip, a sens2 of authenticity in the way Corman describes 
visually th3 various changing moods of this voyager in the Psy
chedelic World: the wondrous shifts from dazzling euphoria into 
a helpless emptiness.
The imagery itself is not that novel; it is only in Cormans 
use that it becomes interesting. Some of the poetic effects are 
derived from certain underground filmmakers; there is the cryptic 
black shrouded hor seman straight out of Bergman, and even some 
scenes from Cormans earlier B movie The Fall of the House of 
Usher.
The beginning illustrates this fine use of imagery: a curious 
mood is created by the way Corman shifts bizarrely from the 
commercial that is being filmed and the conversation that Fonda 
is having with his wife. The Fonda character is suggested only 
faintly; like many people he enters into the unreal world of drugs 
in order to solve his real life problems. Whether he does become 
reconcilled with his wife is not really made clear; he does, how
ever, find sexual satisfaction with a fellow acidhead Salli Sachse. 
Fonda in the central rode is remarkably bland, but this can be 
justified by the shallowness of the kind of person he is playing. 
Susan Strasberg, as the estranged wife of Fonda, is generally 
misused; her acting abilities are reduced to a few bedroom scenes 
where her rear anatomy is photographed in great detail. The 
other characters, California based heads, hippies, and hangerons 
seem very authentic. There is one fine comic scene played between 
Fonda and a straight girl in a Laundramat.
It is too bad that Corman did not do more pieces of business 
like this, to show the bewildering effect of these turned on people 
to the rest of the world.
There is the obligatory sober message at the beginning, in 
case the assumption arose in the audience that through this film 
Universal was supporting the use of LSD. There is also an at
tempt to frhow the really bad effects of LSD: this is only half 
successfully shown, however.
The final impression left, is dike watching a travelog about 
a strange and wonderful land, hypnotically reinforced by a fine 
musical score. One should take this with strong reservations. I 
know of too many instances of people whose lives have been seri
ously damaged by LSD, a*nd I dislike the generally ignorant atti
tude of many of the people who take it.
On a purely personal note, I much prefer old-fashioned meth
ods. By now I have grown rather accustomed to my familiar place 
on the Barroom floor. This film is now playing at the Regent in 
East Liberty, along with the Pawnbroker.
The Eyes Have It
BELIEVE IT OR NOTI
Wndsy ,O cnaaob1
6ip Umr rls
Frame and Lens Replacement 
Prescription Filled 
Contact Lens Center 
STUDENT RATES
Room 505 
Medical Arts Bldg. 
3700 Fifth Avenue
Orti A* A . i u. mP arphe 
AT Tue .
   SePftKVolu
sueczeot
   
OP
UMTH TUe6ElMSes[
fowpto ty NMDOF IftANEDj
Schlesinger...
(Cotinuend from Page 1)
that we will keep our commit
ments. But the present stale
mate has only fostered a feeling 
of isolationism in the American 
public. Quoting Mr. Nixon, Mr. 
Schlesinger said, One legacy 
of tlhe Vietnam issue is a great
er reluctance on the part of the 
U.S. to intervene in other places." 
Escalation has greatly damaged 
our effectiveness in meeting our 
commitments, militarily and po
litically. Why should a nation 
seek our help after they see 
what we did in Vietnam. Allow
ing the military to have a free 
hand in running the war was 
wrong. Predictions of victory 
have not come true. However, 
Mr. Schlesinger hastens to add, 
the fault does not lie with the 
generals. It is their job to makewar and give advice. The fault 
lies with those who take the 
advice. The present military 
strategy is not working. The 
Viet Cong are determined to 
preserve the present stalemate. 
They engage the American 
forces in guerilla warfare, in
tending to keep the Americans 
busy in search and kill missions.
Mr. Schlessinger, however, 
offered some solutions to the 
problem. The first thing that 
the Administration should do 
is to have and unconditional 
bombing pause. The second 
step is to select an alternate 
solution to the problem. The 
American way is to experi
ment in seeking the best re
sult but if one method fails 
seek another, said Mr. Schles
inger.
Speaking of the upcoming 
elections Mr. Schlesinger, who 
is vice chairman of the Amer
icans for Democratic Action, 
said that Vietnam will have to 
be an issue in the 1968 Presi
dential campaign, if not there is 
something wrong with our po
litical system. To those Demo
crats who do not want to sup 
port President Johnson in 1968, 
Mr. Schlesinger offered the al
ternative of going over- to the 
Republican. The ADA does not 
have a dump Johnson oandidate. It is very hard if not im
possible, said Mr. Schlesinger, 
not to renominate a President. 
He predicts a Republican vic
tory in 1968 if President John
son continues his present policy 
in Vietnam. 
??????????????????????? * *
* Final Instructions *? * * * t Ray Charles Concert }
Bring A "Hypo" 
for a "Fix"
**?
?
** ( The above is a paid 
 political announcement )**
by Greg Carroll
By omission of the Tart in 
staff, last weeks homeco fl
ing queen candidates pictur *s 
were photographed by Lau a 
Seidler.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 18, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 3
Conference Topic 
Latin America 
An intercollegiate conference 
on Latin America is scheduled 
for November 3 and 4 at The 
College of Wooster. The pur
pose is to delve into topics re
lated to the theme Dynamics 
of Change in Latin America 
and to engage in dialogue with 
some leading authorities on that 
part of the world.
Among the 16 invited speak
ers and conferees are: Professor 
John J. Johnson, Stanford Uni
versity; Thomas C. Mann, for
mer Under-Secretary of State 
for Foreign Affairs; General 
Roland H. delMar (ret.) former
ly Director of American Defense 
College; Dr. Kalman H. Silvert, 
Ford Foundation; Juan de Onis, 
N.Y. Times; Professor John J. 
Kennedy, The University of No
tre Dame.
Some 200 or more delegates 
are expected from colleges and 
universities within a 500 mile 
area to hear five major addres
ses and to choose among 15 
seminars. Students from Latin 
America and Caribbean coun
tries are specially invited and 
will be registered free of charge. 
Others are charged a $10 reg
istration fee.
All interested persons wheth
er in or out of college now, are 
invited to attend, according to 
the committee, which is headed 
by Larry Krieg, Conference Co
ordinator, a senior from Bethesda, Md.
Volunteers Sought For Project Leap
A joint project of the Pitt and 
Carnegie-Mellon Ys will give 
students the chance to show the 
interest, challenge, and excite
ment of learning. This is Pro
ject Leap, designed to present 
college-style subject material 
and methods in a low-present 
atmosphere.
Each volunteer would have a 
small group of both lower class 
poverty and suburban students. 
He will choose a subject typical 
of a college curriculum, but not 
too detailed or advanced. The 
subject is be something the 
volunteer enjoys, in order to pro
ject his enthusiasm. Courses are 
aimed in general to communi
cate ideas rather than skills.
Volunteer teachers will spend 
several hours each week until 
Christmas, with the hope that 
the program may be carried over 
next semester. A list of available 
courses will be matched with the 
expressed interests of students 
from some 40 local schools. 
Meeting places and times will 
be decided upon by volunteers 
and students.
If interested, stop in the Y 
office, 57 Skibo.
THE
GENIUS
IS
COMING 
OCT. 20.
The Inquiring Reporter
The TARTAN sent its inquiring reporter about the campus 
this week asking the question, Who is Ray Charles? Below are 
presented some of the more interesting answers.
Greatest soul sound since
Secretary in the Committee of Religious Affairs Office 
The greatest security risk since the peace march Monday night. 
Egg Foo Young, Defender of law and order 
The Genius.
Rich Steffens 
Never met him.
Ernie Toth
The ray between beta rays and gamma rays.
George T. Slipstick, III 
EEE
So long as he signs in ink, whats the difference?
Secretary, registrars office 
We are supplying rolls for Mr. Charles rock, and thats all I 
know.
Buggs Burrell,
Found leaning on ihe counter in the grill.
If Charles, then Ray. Step one until October twentieth. 
GA091sll 
$@c-%5!%?
Hippie, on floor in Skibo lobby 
(Where else?)
Thats x good question. Whats your next question?
Dale Peschel 
Boy Leader 
Ray who?
Sidney Chimney
Found Fiddling on the roof
of Fine Arts
Anthone ReviewTo Sir, With Love 
andUp The Down Stair Case
..by..
TONY LAWRENCE
Films concerning themselves with a student-teacher relation
ship are usually fairly interesting and even if they dont oome off, 
they at least make an attempt. Whether it be something as bold 
as Blackboard Jungle, as fascinating as The Mircle Worker, or as 
sympathetic as The Corn Is Green there always seems to be an 
underlying force in back of the surface qualities that says: We 
want to show you like it is.
Two of the most recent entries in this category are Up the 
Down Staircase and To Sir, with Love. In To Sir, we see static Sid
ney Poitier fresh out of graduate school somewhere trying to show 
a lot of conventional trite adolescents that there is more to life than 
the class they are involved in (class meaning social status). Though 
he is not liked as first, after all hes not a pushover like their 
other teachers, soon they begin to realize that he makes some 
sense and has a bit on the ball.
At the end of the semester, it isnt clear if its *the semester 
or years end, there is a school party. He attends and is given a 
present by these kids while in the background one of the more 
talented urchins sings the title song. Well, enoughs enough and 
the ending, which is one of the more memorable cop outs in re
cent cinema history, only contributed to the overall mediocrity 
of' this picture. Poitier, however, had some fine moments but 
might have done better to exercise a little more control on the 
activities oi James Clavell who wrote, produced, and directed. 
The flick, unfortunately evokes more apathy than sympathy.
At first glance Bel Kaufmans best-seller Up the Down Stair
case seems great material for a movie. Well, if done right yes, 
quite so. Producer Alan J. Pakula and director Robert Mulligan 
have done beautifully with this film. Sandy Dennis is marvelous 
and supporting performances by Patrick Bedford, Ruth White, 
and Eileen Heckart are superb. Sylvia Barrett, too, is fresh out 
of graduate school and eager to teach. What she runs up against 
is not the students as much as the administration (sound familiar).
The paper work is not nearly as insurmountable as it is ab
surd. The students lack more self-control than intelligence. All in 
all though, you care about them. Alas they are people who appear 
to have substance and in one instance you pity them. Newsweek 
movie reviewer said of the picture: Gone is the memorable cafe
teria food riot, gone is this and that. True, but also gone is a 
nine hour picture too. For what the picture is and what the intent 
is, the film is good and should be seen. In her second screen appear
ance Sandy Dennis is a perfect choice for Sylvia Barrett. Her 
mannerisms concern many people and probably with some justi
fication. But her choices for the character always seemed right 
and in place. In many ways she is one of the most astonishing 
actresses 1o occur in a while.
To Sir, with Love may be found at the Encore in Mt. Lebanon 
or the Forum in Squirrel Hill. Up the Down Staircase will be 
returning to Pittsburgh shortly.
If you're the kind of Civil Engineer we're looking for, you'll start search
ing for another one to conquer. Here 
at the Pennsylvania Department of 
Highways, we offer a host of chal
lenges to the right man. But, to be 
that right man, you've got to be pretty 
special.
You see, we search out and encour
age Civil Engineers whom we consider capable of grasping a challenge; 
skilled men, comparable to the great 
Engineers who are "building Tomor
row today in Pennsylvania.' If you 
can measure up to the standards 
necessary to fulfill Pennsylvania's $10 
billion plan to lead the nation in highways, we'd consider it a challenge just 
to get to know you.
A Pennsylvania Department of Highways Career Representative will 
visit your campus. To arrange for an 
appointment, or if you desire 
additional infor
mation, contact the 
placement office.
INTERVIEW DATE:
rSS.mh[lSel 
Ir!ls'GrS' iL *e3aXlm.
Bureau of Personnel 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17102
NO DATES? Your name ex
changed with five potential 
college dates, $1.00. 1 day 
service. Pen-Date Post Of
fice, Box 291, Kettering, O.
STAMP IT!
IT'S THE RAGE 
REGULAR 
MODEL
3 LINE TEXT
The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. Vi" * 2".Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax.
Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed 
THE MOPP CO.
P. 0. Box 18623 Lenw Square Station 
ATLANTA, GA., 30326
Stanley
WarnetSTRAND
ZOtkCfNTWr FOX presents
CIKHUSCQf? Um b DtUflf
 ALSO PLAYING -
HOW TO STEAL 
A MILLION
AUDREY HEPBURN 
PETER O'TOOLE
After youve met the challenge?
A story of the new*beat bold-tempo mods and minis... 
and a teacher who was strong and hip enough to make them 
cool it and call him "Sir" I
COLUMBIA PICTURES PresentsSIDNEY POITIER
JAMES CUVELLS PRODUCTION OF 
TO SIR. WITH LOVETECHNICOLOR*
Tf'a UUC

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday. October 18, 1967
EDITORIAL
Flowers Should Be In Beds
The hippie invasion on our campus has blossomed from an 
occasional flower child into a botanical garden which rivals Phipps 
Conservatory for its variety, volume, appearance, smell, and oppresiveness.
The activity of the local high school students who have re
jected the straight society in favor of the haven of Skibo can be 
compared only to that of bees around honey. Although Mr. Cornet 
has written a column in this issue commenting on this subject, 
we feel that a concurring explanation from the editorial board 
could more fully explain the dissatisfaction of C-MUs community 
with unalfiliated hippie dwellers.
Although the hippies are billed as the flower children, 
their flotsam and jetsam looks more like the remains of a sani
tation workers strike than it does a bed of roses. Cigarette 
butts, candy wrappers, cups, and assorted food scraps clutter 
the floors In addition to our visitors.
These invaders, blown as the dandelion on the wind, have 
arrived in such numbers as to make it difficult for a student here 
to watch television, read in peace, or even feel comfortable, for 
the studentsalthough amused by the cross-pollinization efforts 
of some of the unaffiliatedhave lost one more area of the build
ing in which to romp and play and let out hostility. The faculty 
and food services own one-half of the building. The Ballroom, 
Wherrett Room, Highlander Rooms, and rooms downstairs are 
notoriously reserved for Ladies Aid Society lunches, Knitting 
Club meetings, and other matters of import to the campus. And 
the Placement Bureau takes what is left.
Because of all of this, and the hippie invasion on top of that, 
the students here seem to suffer from the feelings of a misfitreverse attitude, feeling as thought they should be the ones to 
leave, letting the hippies and their friends use the building in peace.
Although the administration is moving toward restricting 
the use of Skibo by outside groups, it has done nothing thus 
far to dean up the mess in our lobby. We, then, must pay for 
janitors, security men, and desk workers who must tend to a 
group of people who care little for our propertyand show 
itwhile we are at home, feeling guilty for having come to 
Skibo in the first place.
The administration's policy on outsiders aids in the protec
tion of Skibo as a gathering place for the ilooal unwashed and 
unaffiliated. Ait this time, the building is open to faculty, students, 
staff, and their invited quests. This means that, should a group 
become offensive, they have protection under the schools regula
tions. As well, nobody can be a trespassertechnically.
We fed that the wording of our policy should be changed 
to read, The buildings and facilities of Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity are open for the use of students, faculty, and staff. 
All others are guests of the university, and are isubject to its 
regulations, and may be required to leave regardless of their 
affiliation with a student, faculty, or staff member, or school 
sponsored group.
If this policy is put into effect, as has been done at other uni
versities without a loss in student freedom, we feel that Skibo can 
return to its days of glory, when students wreaked havoc in the 
lobby because . . . What the heck . . . They were paying for it.
the Tartan
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-in-Chief
Executive Editor..........................................................JOHN MERA
Managing Editor.....................................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manager............................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor ............................................SUZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editor....................................................ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor ........................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ..........................Rich Steffens
Sports Editor ................................................Jim Janke
Photography Editor ...............................Laura Seidler
Local Advertising Manager.........Caroll Swarmer
National Advertising Manager........Fredda Simon
Layout Editor .....................................Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor .................Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor ..................................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager...............Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers ..........................Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor ...................................................................Liz Seley
Letters To Editor 
Student Commends 
Editorial Staff
Editorial Staff, The Tartan:
It is most reassuring to me to 
observe that the U.S. Constitu
tion is under the constant guard 
of the alert Tartan editorial 
staff. You demonstrated clearly 
in your editorial last week on 
Dick Gregory that no unconsttutional proposition will escape 
your close scrutiny. With great 
dispatch you revealed the blatent unconstitutionality of Greg
ory's popularity-minded position.
I was terribly impressed. In 
fact, you set me in a suitable 
frame of mind to observe your 
upcoming coupe-de-grace. I re
fer, of course, to your forth 
coming expose of the monstrous 
evil being perpetrated on our 
Constitution by none other than 
the President of the United 
States himself. For surely it 
cannot have escaped your no
tice that the Administration is 
v/aging the most intense, bru
tal war in history, including 
World War II, and has not even 
declared war? This is obvious 
disregard for the Constitution, 
which specifically prohibits mil
itary attack on any country 
without Congressional declara
tion of war.
In last weeks editorial you 
showed yourselves emminent.y 
capable of correcting this gross 
injustice. For such insightful 
gentlemen as yourselves cannot 
fail to have profound effect on 
the President. More effect, at 
least, than the 80 members of 
the American Bar Association 
had when they tried to point out 
the wars unconstitutionality. 
The President ignored them. 
But then, the American Bar 
Association is not the Tartan.
Your obvious grasp of con
stitutional philosophy may make 
you realize that the U.S. Con
stitution is a tragic farce if it 
permits the looting of mens 
souls by a profit-hungry econo
mic system. Indeed, you may 
even come to consider justice 
and human welfare as more im
portant than even the almighty 
Constitution.
But this may be more than 
even your brilliant minds can 
grasp.
Sincerely, 
William Vandivier 
History Dept.
We are pleased that Mr. Vandi
vier has taken the time to pro
duce a scholarly comment upon 
our editorial.
The Epitome of Pedantry
*y
Berry W. Cornet
As to why people, in general, 
should state opinions, consider 
the words of German writer Hans 
Habe, who said, The world is
one per cent bad, one per cent --------------------
good, and ninety-eight per cent ("'pilirlh 
neutral. That is why what one 
person does is so important
Retraction
Before we launch dauntlessly into todays diatribe, let us re
capitulate for a moment on last columns malifluousness and male
factions. It seems that, along with the numerous extra-terainious 
typographical faux pas (the guilt for which belongs to this tabloid), 
your vi'tuperous columnist has also committed a beaux-beaux.
We referred to John Arbuckle as the founder of Martinsons 
coffee. Inexcusable! Obviously, Mr. Martinson found Martinsons 
coffee, shouting out as he did so, Eureka! Ive found it. Con
trary to popular belief, Mr. Arbuckle didnt find Arbuckles Coffee 
either, but latched on to Yuban Coffee after Mr. Yuban overlooked 
it. So much for apologies.
Turn On, Tune In, Drop Dead
Oh well, on Friday and Saturday nights the precious student, 
facility at Skibo is invaded by a horde of teeny-tiny teeny hop
pers. This intrusion from P.S.s 100-168 (or whatever) is, to some, 
a sociological boon in that it keeps these youngsters from either 
knifing someone or Walnut Street or conceiving without legiti
macy in Schenley Park. However, to most of us who are forced 
to look at, listen to, and smell these people, it can only be called 
walking obscenity.
This is not to say that these individuals arent people or that 
these people arent individuals. After all, they each express their 
individuality by carrying a loaded guitar and soiling their clothes 
in a somewhat dubious manner. The girls all wear a mixture of 
Elmers Glue-All and blue ink on their eyelids and spray their hair 
with wax, and the fellows nurture beards through which, it ap
pears, they siphon their food. (This is not to say that beards and 
wax, etc., are objectionable. On the contrary, they are quite ac
ceptable on our fine arts students in that they, as well as growing 
hair, have a facility for making art, whereas our unauthorized 
visitors have only a facility for growing hair.)
There are two ways for C-MU students to avoid these objec
tionable people. One method is to go a-knifing on Walnut Street 
and conceiving in Schenley Park. The other is to call on our se
curity force, those magnificent grey men to keep the rif- raff out. 
This would be a marked improvement over their present primary 
occupation of ticketing students automobiles and keeping students 
out of various places on campus, such as faculty lounges.
Yet, we must admit, some of these week-end hippies do pro
vide a service to C-MU gentlemen that the Student Congress has 
overlooked. We are reflecting on a heavily mascara-ed Miss, let 
us call her Adoline, in whom we found the inspiration for this 
poem:
I sing of sweet old Adoline,
My heart is worn and grieved.
I sing of old, sweet Adoline,
The whore with whom my heart believed,
That you
That I
That you and I
That both of us
That we
That we could bend our consciences 
Could bend them to permit.
Oh let us,
That is us
Thats you and me
Thats we
Not be burnished
Not be punished by our guilt 
But let us smile with easy satisfaction 
As the seed is set in silt.
I sing of sweet old Adoline.
I sing of old, sweet Adoline.
I sing of Adoline!
Adoline! Adoline!
Oh divine Adoline!
My supine Adoline!
Its sublime,
Adoline!
(Three cheers for Skibo and penicillin!)
B. W. C.
It is good that Mr. Vandivier 
is among those of us in the two 
percent who are not neutral.
Campus Resembles 
Bulletin Board
Editor, The Tartan:
In reoent weeks, the overflow 
of local ditto machines has 
spread to lamppost, trees, walls, 
doors, in fact to every eye-level 
surface on campus. Fraternity 
rush events, Y-Cine series, fly(Continued from Page 1) 
tional styles second-hand. They 
are singers and instrumentalists
ing school, and, of course, the 
ubiquitous SKI ! ! trips have 
combined to give Tech the ap
pearance of a newsstand in a 
tornado.
Surely there are ample bulle
tin boards, but if more are need
ed, the Student Government 
could easily raise their cost by 
authorizing its officers to collect 
these stray notices and sell them 
back to their disseminatorsat, 
say 50 each. There hasnt been 
such a mess since the spirit 
trophy competition.
who live in the parts of West 
Virginia where the old tradi
tions are still carried on today 
as a way of life. The annual 
Glenville Festival, where Car
negie Ceilidh organizer Howard 
Glasser first heard three mus
icians, is one of the only folk 
and craft festivals left in Amer
ica thats held for the Folk in
stead of the Folk enthusiasts.
Tickets for the concert will 
cost $2.00, and may be pur
chased at the Information Desk 
in Skibo Auditorium, CarnegieMellon University, between one 
and five pm or at the door.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 18, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 5
^\oliceb
3RAMA DEPARTMENT
Ah Wilderness by Eugene 
ONeil produced by the depart
ment of drama and directed by 
Henry Boettcher in the Carnegie 
Theater CFA at 8:10 pm Octo
ber 19 through 28.
me6l77ume6 NbrPa
Robert Nelson will present 
the first East Coast showing of 
four of his new films: The 
Great Blondino, Superspread, 
Awful Blacklash, and Hot Leath
erette. Included in the program 
will be O Dem Watermelons. The 
film lecture program will be
gin at 8:00 pm in Skibo Ball
room. Tickets 75c. One perfor
mance only.
NbrP c7oa
King and Country directed by 
Joseph Losey with Tom Coutenay and Dick Borgrade. Thurs
day, October 19, Porter Hall 100 
at 4:30, 7:00 and 9:30. Members 
only.
Y-FRIDAY CINE SERIES
No showing because of Home
coming.
SATURDAY NIGHT MOVIE
No showing because of Home
coming.
COPENHAGEN UNIVERSITY 
CHORUS
The 49 man Copenhagen Uni
versity Chorus conducted by Eifred Eckart-Hansen, director of 
music at Tivoli Gardens in Co
penhagen, will present selections 
from Sibelius, Carl Nielsen,
Schubert, Benjamin Britten, Pou
lenc and other composers, as 
well as Scandinavian polka 
songs. Sunday, October 22 at 
8:00 pm, Skibo. Free.
THURSDAY 
LUNCHEON FORUM
Opportunities for Urban In
volvement a panel of Carnegie 
students, faculty and Pittsburgh 
citizens. Meet at noon, program 
at 12:30 and adjourn by 1:20. 
October 19 Highlander Room, 
Skibo.
CROSS COUNTRY
C-MU vs. Geneva. Schenley 
Park Course. 4 pm October 18.
BOAT CRUISE
The society of American Mili
tary Engineers will sponsor a 
boat cruise on the Gateway Clip
per October 29. The cruise is 
open to all C-MU students and 
their dates; there will be no 
charge. Transportation will be 
provided to the Gateway Clipper 
at 12:30 pm by busses leaving 
campus from behind the library, 
and returning from the Clipper 
at 5:00. A special invitation is 
extended to foreign students on 
campus.
Contact Leighton Weslake at 
683-9064 if you plan to come.
POLITICAL INTERNSHIP
The Pennsylvania Center for
NB MBI 
MOtABIPittsburgh
The PlayhouseHamlet Street 
Theater, Once Upon a Mattress
by Mary Rogers, Marshall Barer, 
Dean Fuller and Jay Thompson.
Craft Avenue Theater, After 
the Fall by Arthur Miller. Cur
tain at 8:15 both theaters. Tic
kets for Sunday, Wednesday, 
Thursday and Frida night $3.30 
and $4.95. Saturday night $4.95, 
Tuesday night and Wednesday 
Matinee $1.65.
Le Treteau de Paris  in co
operation with la Compagnie la 
Guilde presents a new produc
tion in French of Lesages com
edy Turcaret, Monday, October 
23, 8:30 pm Aulonian Hall, 
Mount Mercy College. Student 
tickets $2:00.
Pittsburgh Symphony  Wil
liam Steinberg Conducting. An
ton Webern  Variation, Opus 
30, Mozart  Concerto No. 20 
in D Minor for Piano and Or
chestra, K. 466. Vladimir Ashgenazy pianist. Walton  Bel
shazzars Feast for mixed Choir, 
Baritone Solo and Orchestra, 
Kenneth Smith, Bass. Mendels
sohn Choir of Pittsburgh Fri
day Oct. 20 at 8:40 pm and Sun
day Oct. 22 at 3:10 pm. Syria 
Mosque.
Carnegie MeUon Concert 
SeriesEmo Valasek, violinist. 
Bach, Partita No. 1 in B Minor, 
Sonata No. 3 in A Minor, Sona
ta No 5 in C Major. Open to 
public. Carnegie lecture Hall. 
October 18, 8:30 pm Hilda Jonas, 
Harpsichordist. Wednesday Octo
ber 25 8:30.
Ravi Shankar, si tar player ac
companied by Alla Rakha play
ing the tabla, October 19 at 8:30 
pm. Syria Mosque. Tickets $2.95, 
3.95, 4.95, 5.95 at Music Guild 
of Pittsburgh, Hornes, Gimbels, 
National Record Marts and Penn 
Sheraton Ticket Agency.
Pittsburgh Free University 
The Draft in a Free Society: The 
Draft and Moral Decay (Evasionism). Jim Syphers of the 
Pittsburgh Poverty Program 
and Prof. Robert Morgan, C-MU 
Psychology dept. Wednesday 
October 18, 8 pm, United Oak
land Ministry, 5th & Bellefield 
Aves.
Pittsburgh Free University 
The Draft in a Free Society: 
Selective Service, Deferred Sta
tus, and social Manipulation by 
the Government, Tom Heyden, 
BostonWednesday October 25, 
8 pm,United Oakland Ministry, 
5th & Bellefield Aves.
The Crumbling WallFriday 
and Saturday October 20 and 21 
9:30 pm and 11:00 pm Film Fes
tival.
Special matinee performance 
of A Man for All Seasons for 
college students. Upon presenta
tion of an I.D. card tickets can
Education in Politics has an
nounced guidelines for its un
dergraduate political internship 
program for 1968. The purpose 
of the program is to put college 
undergraduates to work with ac
tive politicians or political organ
izations on the state and local 
level in Pennsylvania. Prefer
ence will be given to students 
working with state legislators.
Applications for internships 
must be submitted jointly by the 
student and the politician or poli
tical oranization with whom the 
student would serve.
Students may obtain applica
tions forms by writing to: Dr. 
Sidney Wise, Director, Pennsyl
vania Center for Education in 
Politics, Franklin and Marshall 
College, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 
17604. The deadine for submit
ting applications is February 15,
1968. The internship program has 
been made possible by grants 
from the Samuel S. Fels Fund 
and the Pittsburgh Foundation.
SKI CLUB
The Pittsburgh Intercollegiate 
Conference of Ski Clubs will 
meet on October 23 at 6:30 pm 
in Skibo, Wherett Room. Ski 
movies will be shown. Members 
no charge, non-members 25c 
Membership will be taken at 
the door. Rates $5.00 a year.
be purchased for $1.50 for Sat
urday October 21. Preceding 
the film on this date only, a 
showing of Psychedelic Fash
ions. Show at 1:30 pm.
YM & WHA presents Robert 
Casadesus, world famous clas
sical pianist at the opening of 
their annual Y Musical Society 
series. To assure a seat the per
formance, contact the YM&WHA 
on Bellefield Avenue
Dr. Frederick Hard, Dean of 
Humanities at the University of 
California, will discuss Some 
Relationships between Poetry 
and painting in 17th century 
England at Chatham College, 
October 19, 11 am in the Chapel. 
The lecture is open to the public.
Opera
The Pittsburgh Opera, Inc., 
will open the season with a new 
production of Lucia Di Lammermoor, at the Syria Mosque, 
Thursday and Saturday even
ings, October 26 and 28. Ticket 
information may be obtained by 
calling or writing: Pittsburgh 
Opera, 1414 RockwellStandard 
Building.
San Francisco Mimie Troupe
will present its own radical 
guerilla theatre version of 
Goldoniss The MUitary Lover 
on Sunday, October 29, and Mon
day, October 30, at 8:00 pm in 
the Skibo Ballroom. Tickets are 
priced at $1.50 and $2.00 for 
students, and are available by 
mail at Box 110, c/o CarnegieMellon University, and at the 
door on the evenings of perfor
mance.
Words, Words, Words..
by George Havach, S. J.
Why theory?
We live in a world that has been built by words. The con 
struction of a building like Warner Hall required much persistent 
verbal activity before the first architectural sketches were put 
on paper; its supporting girders were set in place amid a con
stant interplay of orders-given and orders-followed; it was dedi
cated by a baptism in official rhetoric; and its offices function day 
by day with the patterns of secretarial communication. But is 
language no more than an efficient mechanism for getting things 
done?
One tentative answer to the question, How do we know 
animals arent self-conscious, like man? is Well, animals dont 
talk, but man does; man has language. Given this criterion for 
distinguishing consciousness, some scientists have set out to dis
cover whether some animals (e.g. the porpoise) do have a language 
of sorts, t an communicate perceptions to each other. But is lan
guage no more than a system of expressive reactions to sense-data?
The tie-in between language and consciousness is signifi
cant, if only from their de facto occurrence together; thus they 
become objects for scientific scrutiny. But what happens when 
we are talking about language? Now we have a verbal opera
tion reacting on itself. True, language is a tool for classifying 
the world of objects into trees and stones and birds and harpsl* 
cords; we denote by name. But conscious activity also includes 
juggling such terms as history and energy and stimulation 
and language. We have proliferated words far beyond the num
ber of distinguishable objects around us, as weU as of the num
ber of feelings that move us. What becomes evident is that 
language is founded in a process of active awareness, ver
balization, which may also be called the reaction mechanism 
for the equation: consciousness plus expressive apparatus 
(voice, gesture, etc.) react to yield language.
All this is merely ground work to clarifying the question with 
which I began: Why theory? Theory is verbalization upon the 
question of the signficance of the data of conscious experience. 
Verbalization is possible by means of the language-proficiency at 
ones disposal The data are acquired from perceptive exposure to 
the world of experience; consciousness is able to assimilate this 
world interiorly. And thus theory springs from the conscious 
effort to discern meaning; theory is the verbal expression of con
scious significance.
Theory seems to detach itself from the real world of 
everyday perceptionsand to see this, you need go no further 
than that last paragraph, which is one of the most be wilderingly conceptual theoretical statements I have excogitated to 
date.
However, theory should not detach us from contact with real
ity, but should be an enrichment of precisely that contact The 
point is, we begin to theorize as soon as we try to make sense out 
of our data of conscious experience (as here, on the use of 
words). The lengendary case of Newtons insight into physical 
laws from the sight of an apple falling to earth is also instruc
tive. Preoccupied with questions about the motions of bodies, 
Newtons mind was opened to be able to describe a multitude of 
phenomena on terms of several simple principles.
The fact that we possess and daily speak a language implies 
that we already are exercising a wealth of theoretical knowledge, 
because language is itself a generations-old product of significancemaking out of the world of experience. This is the reason that so 
much of tlie educational effort seems to be centered on familiarity 
with the vocabularly of a given subject area such as physics. 
Familiarity implies understanding, ability to apply principles to 
encountered situationsprohlem-solving. For the case of a ball 
rolling down a hill, the use of descriptive terms, gravity, axis 
of rotation, coefficient of static fiction, gives access to solution 
of the problems of speed and forces. And on a grander scale, or
ganized use of the language of structural features of material* 
leads to the spanning of river, or the erection of an administration 
building.
Nonetheless, the theoretical process itself goes beyond use 
of theoretical vocabulary, which, without the flavor of involve
ment, becomes merely jargon. To theorize is to become involved 
with the material being handled, whether it is electrical circuitry 
or the emotional upsets one meets. It is foolish to talk of socio
economic interdependence without a living sense of man-in-com
munity, which is acquired through real contact So, too, the 
psychotherapist needs to view his theory of personality as mean
ingful only insofar as it helps the people whom he treats.
Theory, then, a guide to the understanding of our experi
ence, becomes part of our effort to Uve, to develop in cons
ciousness and self-expression. If language is the verbalization 
of reality, then theory is a relevant verbal structure for deal* 
ing with reality. Its relevance is revealed In a theory's effi
ciency, its practical value, but because theory Is a conscious
ly conceived product of experience, Its relevance also becomes 
apparent In the quality of a mans personal awareness his 
sensitivity to experience, as expressed In his theory. Theory 
describes life, and therein It can provide an entrance Into hu
man personality itself.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 18, 1967
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
Esi''SiX NS.KslSPr M3rSPm
281 -6619 - Phones - 281 -9000
WANTED BY RECORD CLUB OF AMERICA 
Campus Representative 
TO EARN OVER $100 IN SHORT TIME
Write for information to: MR. ED BENOVY, College Bureau Manager 
Record Club of America, Club Headquarters, York, Pennsylvania 17401
3000QOOOOOOOOOOC
Campus Camera Headquarters
**
{**
FOR AU YOUR
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS j 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE 
Phone: 683-2181 Student Discount on Most Items
Soup n  Sandwich 
Shoppe, *3nc.
OPEN 24 HOURS
EXCEPT SUNDAY MIDNIGHT TO MONDAY 7 A.M.
CORNER OF CRAIG AND FORBES
coirauini
YOU STMT IT THE TOP in 
CAREER-POTENTIAL
its important to start your career with a 
company big enough for the full realization of 
your talents: FMC Corporation!
Perhaps you know, at this moment, where you are going and the position you aim to 
achieve in industry. Not many graduates are sure of their goals. Getting the right start 
is very important. When you begin your career with FMC Corporation, you know 
that no matter where your talents blossom, you can develop fully within the FMC or
ganization  125 plants in 33 states and 12 foreign countries.
Here are a few of the major products of many FMC divisions: power equipment for 
lawns; barges; railroad cars; vegetable harvesters; crop dusters; fire fighting appa
ratus; flexographic printing presses; conveyor equipment; barge loaders; cryogenic 
pumps; fishing rods; pesticides; garden seeds; acetate yarns; films and resins; rocket 
propellants; military tracked and wheeled vehicles; nuclear handling systems; missile 
and aerospace ground support systems and equipment. A FULL LIST QF PROD
UCTS would fill several pages. The diversity means unusual opportunity and security 
in your future with the company.
FIND OUT NOW WHAT FMC CAN OFFER YOU AT GRADUATION
You will start your career with the famed Ordnance Division of FMC, a vital, interesting, expanding 
facility located in the Magic Valley of Charleston, West Virginia. The city is metropolitan in thought 
and action, but you will be only a few minutes away from wild country, great hunting and fishing. It 
is an excellent place to work and to live.
We are seeking qualified B.S. and Graduate Students as  INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS  MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERS  METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS  INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT MAJORS  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY 
 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT (ACCOUNTING MAJORS)  MATHEMATICS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS ANALYSTS
DrSp Lis FREE VsiPaKsr"Rhe! iK' lSp Gleh 'iplmH
CLIP OUT AND MAIL
T 6ADE VU A2 D2 RNENoUB c
MB UdAM0 ttOEABNEu U60tuUO 6"n
Dept..CR-9TO: Mr. Ron Evans, Personnel Division 
FMC CORPORATION 
ORDNANCE DIVISION
P.O. Box 8307  South Charleston, W. Va. 25303
Dear Mr. Evans: Please send me free brochure outlining 
career opportunities at your FMC Division.
Name:
Address:.
I understand that if Im interested in talking to a Company Rep
resentative, A Campus Interview will be arranged.
1
Despite
fiendish torture 
dynamic BiC Duo 
writes first time, 
every time!
.mPa sK33rp pair of 
stick pens wins again in 
unending war against 
ball-point skip, clog and 
smear. Despite horrible 
punishment by mad 
scientists, r.m still writes 
first time, every time. 
And no wonder, r.mPa 
Dyamite Ball is the 
hardest metal made, 
encased in a solid brass 
nose cone. Will not skip, 
clog or smear no matter 
what devilish abuse is 
devised for them by 
sadistic students. Get 
the dynamic r.m phe at 
your campus store now.
v /(Cont t-i
WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP. 
MILFORD. CONN.
BiC Medium Point 19C
BiC Fine Point 25C
WflOOOOOQOOOOOOO
TIME
The longest word 
in the language?
By letter count, the longest 
word may be pneumonoultram icroscopicsi lico volcanoconiosis, 
a rare lung disease. You wont 
find it in Websters New World 
Dictionary, College Edition. But 
you will find more useful infor
mation about words than in any 
other desk dictionary.
Take the word time. In addi
tion to its derivation and an 
illustration showing U.S. time 
zones, youll find 48 clear def
initions of the different mean
ings of time and 27 idiomatic 
uses, such as time of ones life. 
In sum, everything you want to 
know about time.
This dictionary is approved 
and used by more than 1000 
colleges and universities. Isnt 
it time you owned one? Only 
$5.95 for 1760 pages; gg
thumb-indexed.
At Your Bookstore
THE WORLD PUBLISHING CO.
Cleveland and New York

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 18, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 7
GC Overpowers CMU 
Tartan Record 1-3
by Ed Dolbow
The Wolverines of Grove City seem to have cast a spell over the Carnegie Tartans. Last Saturday the Grovers visited the C.M.U. camipus for the second consecutive year and walked off with another victory, 30-12. It was the seventh straight time that the Tartans have fallen to Grove City (Last year the score was 52-35).
The Tartans kicked off to 
open the contest and had the 
Grovers deep in their own terri
tory. Although the defense sty
mied the opening drive of Grove 
City, the offense failed to move 
the ball after a third down punt 
by Mike Zeigler. The first quar
ter ended in a score-less tie with 
neither squad threatening to 
take the lead. Unfortunately the 
Tartans lost two key players
18 Wooster 
28 Oberlin 
20 Allegheny
21
14
34
12 Grove City 30
October 21Grove City 
October 28at Thiel 
November 4at Westminster 
November 11W & J
when halfback-linebacker Char
les Zak sustained an ankle in
jury and safety-man Dave 
Thomas rejinjured his ankle. 
Tony Bugel replaced Zak and 
did an outstanding job while 
Nick Fusco took over for 
Thomas.
Early in the second quarter 
Zeigler passed to Greg Mad
ness for an 18 yard gain tc 
move the ball to the Tartan 31. 
From there Zeigler hit halfback 
Bob Werner for the first touch
down of the afternoon. The ex 
tra point kick was short, mak
ing the score 6-0. A Tairtan drive 
later in the period was stopped 
by an interception in the GroveCity endzone.
A late 2nd period Wolverine 
drive was stopped on the 22 
yard line and Barry Ross en
tered the game for Grove City 
amd kicked a fieldgoal to make 
the halftime score 9-0.
The third period spelled dis
aster for Carnegie as Grove City 
marched three times to score 
and converted all the extra point 
attempts. Jack Ramsey ran 
from the one for one TD while 
Zeigler scampered 3 yards
Tortan Sports Photo by Jerry Siskind
around end for another score 
and passed 17 yards to Rick 
Lammert to finish the Wolver
ines scoring for the afternoon. 
The Tartans mounted a threat 
in the same period but a fum
ble on the 14 yard line stopped 
the attack.
Down 30-0, Carnegie pushed 
across two touchdowns in the 
fourth quarter. A pass interfer 
ence call in the end zone pu; 
the belli on the 1 yard line and 
Larry Ghetto crashed the defen
sive line for the TD. Hubka un
limbered a 39 yard touch-down 
pass to Joe Cherney for the 
other score. Both attempts at 
two point conversions failed, 
making the final tally 30-12.
Statistically, it would appear 
that the score should have been 
closer. Grove City ran 76 plays, 
only 7 more than Carnegie. The 
Tartans made 256 yds. passing 
to 211 for the Wolverines. With 
the Grovers picking up 51 yards 
rushing to 10 for the Tartans, 
the total net yardage for both 
clubs was 266. Two important 
reasons for the difference in the 
score were the fumble and inter 
eeption which stopped two CMU 
drives. The defensive line did a 
fine job stopping the ground 
game of Grove City as 52 rush
ing attempts were made making 
the average per carry less than 
one yard. Zeigler showed that he 
hasnt lost any speed from last 
year as he eluded tacklers all 
afternoon. Several times, 
though, the defensive line was 
able to nail him for a loss. Lar
ry Ghetto played another fine 
game as middle linebacker, es
pecially in the first period wtheu 
he was in on almost every tack 
le. Tom Hubka, perhaps ham 
pered by minor injuries sustain
ed in the game, had his worst 
day of the season as he only 
completed 15 out of 39 passes 
and lost 72 yards trying to pass, 
another chance for victory ag
ainst Franklin and Marshall in 
the Homecoming game. Kickoff is scheduled for 1:30.
IM REVIEW
Packers League 
ATO pulled ahead of idle GSIA 
in the standings with a 41-7 rout 
of BSR. ATO will meet GSIA in 
a decisive game and the winner 
will play the number two team 
in the Cowboys League. DU 
scored on two first downs and 
two first downs and two touch
downs to hand the Berets a 
tough 12-10 loss and then fol
lowed with a 25-5 win over TDP 
J.
Standings: W L
ATO 4 0
GSIA 3 0
DU 3 2
BSR 1 2
TDP J 1 3
Berets 1 4
SAE B 0 2
Colts League 
In anticipation of the big 
game on Wednesday BTP chalk
ed up a 37-13 win against KS 
while SAE crushed TX 45-5 and 
toppled KS 20-8. SN B defeat
ed TX 34-11. The Trojans played 
a heroic first half in which they 
trailed the Old Men by only 
five points but they were held 
scoreless in the second half while 
the Old Men added 18 more 
points for a 30-7 win. A victory 
by the Old Men over BTP Mon
day coupled with a BTP win 
against SAE Wednesday would 
result in a three way tie for 
first place which would be re
solved by a two game playoff. 
Standings: W L
SAE 5 0
BTP 3 0
Old Men 4 1
SN B 3 2
KS 13
TX 0 5
Trojans 0 5
Cowboys League 
The Bruins, trailing the leagueleading the Grad Nads by 12 
points after the first half, ral
lied to score 15 points during 
the final two periods, but the 
Grad Nads held on for a 24-21 
victory. BTP B held the Grad 
Nads to a 9-9 deadlock after
(Continued on Last Page)
EMOEMB
. janke, Editor 
r. swoboda, Assoc. Ed.
Harriers Win Two
by Don Baer
The CMU Cross Country team broke its 2-meet losing streak by beating Bethany last Wednesday 20-37 and then running away with the Davis-Elkins triangular meet on Saturday. The Harriers, bolstered by the return of co-captain Bemie Flynn and a record-breaking run by sophomore John Butler, rebounded from their worst start in recent seasons to show unexpected strength in the two meets.Butler felt right at home on____________________________
the fairly level 4-mile Bethany 
course: his time of 21:53 took 
52 seconds off the course rec
ord. Other finishers in the meet 
were:
1) John Butler (C-MU) 21:53
2) Bernie Flynn (C-MU) 22:04
3) P. Ward (Bethany) 22:18
4) Don Baer (C-MU) 22:27
5) Willie Maze (Bethany) 22:57
6) Joe Cirgab (C-MU) 23:03
7) Gary Scarborough
(C-MU) 23:04
8) Larry Anderson (C-MU
9) Bill Bullers (C-MU)
At the Davis- Elkins Forest 
Festival Invitational Meet in El
kins, West Virginia the Tartan 
winners brought home the tro
phy even though the team had 
never been in the meet before. 
Other participating teams were 
from Concord, WVU frosh, Fair
mont State, West Va. Tech, and 
Davis-Elkins. Although the Tar
tans were unable to take any of 
the first four places, the teams 
balanced running easily won the 
meet. The scoring:
1) A. Pledgre (D-E) 21:30
2) John Smithe (W. Va. Tech)
22:41
3) Alan Croythe (WVU frosh)
23:10
Ovex t&e
? ?
j4Ue$Ae*ttf
y ?
by Jeff
S: Q, 2 
H: A, K, 9, 5 
D: A, Q, 5 
C: K, 10, 6, 4
S: K, 8, 5, 3 
H: Q
D: K, 6, 4, 2 
C: Q, 9, 7, 5 
North
West
S: 6
East H: J, 10, 8, 6, 4 
D: J, 9, 7 
C: A, 8, 3, 2
South
S: A, J, 10, 9, 7, 4 
H: 7, 3, 2 
D: 10, 8, 3 
C: J
East-West vulnerable. East dealer.
E S W N
P 2S Dbl. 4S
5H P P P
The weak two-bid has come 
into general use and is most ef
fective in situations of favor
able vulnerability, as shown 
above. The bid requires six to
12 high card points and a six 
card suit. South, noting the vul
nerability, bid two spades on 
the bare requirements for his 
bid. After the expected double, 
Norths jump to four spades 
left his opponents little bidding
4) Harry Longabaugh (WVU
frosh) 23:37
5) Bernie Flynn (C-MU) 23:51
6) Don Baer (C-MU) 24:09
7) John Butler (C-MU) 24:16
Other places for C-MU were 
won by Joe Lorhan (12th-24:47)
October 18Geneva
October 21St. Francis
October 25Indiana U.
October 28 at Westminster
triangular meet with St. 
Vincent
triangular meet 
land St
with CleveNovember 4Ashland
and Bill Bullers (13th-24:50). The 
scoring:
C-MU........................ 43
Concord .................. 75
WVU Frosh ............. 79
W. Va. Tech ........... 87
Fairmont .............. 101
Davis-Elkins........ 104
The Harriers have a meet to
day at 4:00 against Geneva and 
Saturday at 11:00 against St. 
Francis. Both meets will be run 
in Schenley Park.
46 Grove City16
room. East had little choice but 
to bid his hearts, and West, not 
knowing is slam was available 
passed. This turned out to be a 
wise choice, as even the five 
heart contract went down one.
Official rules prohibit weak 
two bids on less than six high 
card points, so one had better 
not be too weak for his weak 
two. Many players employ this 
convention and others like it. 
Try them and you, too, may be 
known as player of the weak.
30 Western Reserve 26
20 Bethany 37
1st place Davis-Elkins Festival
SUNBEAM
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized Achhvm Dealer.  l,WiBg
S&S JEEP
PITTSBURGH
SUNBEAMSIMCA DEALER 
731-7000 
213 PENN AVE.
Wi KiNSF; *!G

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 18, 1967
NEWFIND
SCHOLARSHIPS 
BY COMPUTER
Last year $30 million in college scholarships went unclaimed  because no qualified persons applied . . . because no qualified persons knew of them. Now ECS engineers and educators have programmed a high-speed computer with 700,000 items of scholastic aid, worth over $500 million, to permit students to easily and quickly locate scholarships for which they qualify. The student fills out a detailed, confidential questionnaire and returns it to ECS, with a one-time computer-processing fee of $15. In seconds the computer compares his qualifications against requirements of grants set up by foundations, business, civic, fraternal, religious, and government organizations, and prints a personalized report to the student telling him where and when to apply for grants for which he qualifies. Thousands of these do not depend on scholastic standing or financial need.
s nOUUccccccccccccccccccxINFORMATION AND SAMPLE QUESTIONNAIRE (M IMORTH AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL J COMPUTER SERVICES, INC.
ECS
.Questionnaires
(print)
address.
Campus - FavoredW ALLY'S
MEN HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
0. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Stran* Theater)
WOMENHUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
Original 
Hot Dog Shoppe
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dogs Sold
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To All Dorms from 9 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 
Minimum Order $2.00 
3901 FORBES AVE.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
CUPIDCOMPUTER
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING, 
WRITE: DATAMATICP.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION PITTSBURGH, PAThe Air Force doesnt want to waste your Bachelor of Science Degree any more than you do.
The SCRUB OAK
I saw a scrub oak
on a lonely hill.
He was worn
And weather beaten;
but he east a shadow 
20 feet long:,
And his roots ran deep into 
the earth.
And patience 
as he staunchly stood his 
ground.
I saw a scrub oak
on a lonely hill.
He was petrified 
and lifeless;
but he cast a shadow 
20 feet long,
And his roots ran deep into 
the earth.
I.M. REVIEW
(Continued, from Page 7)
regulation time had expired, 
but former team was able to 
score on a first down in the over
time period to edge out BTP 
B 10-9. SN routed PKT Pur
ple" 37-2 and BTP B crushed 
the Bandits 37-13. The Bruins 
soundly defeated DU J.
There was determination inStandings:WL
his hardened trunk, poundGrad Nads50
ed and buffetedSN31by cold winds.
X
There was yearning in hisBruins32
reaching branches,Bandits22
As arms opening to the skyBTP B22
shaped by growth 
through uncounted ages.PKT Purple14
There was simplicity in hisDU J05
design.Browns League
The EJs boosted their record 
to 4-0 by troucing DTD 49-27 
and pulling out a 23-20 win 
over TDP. They seemed to be 
heading for an easy victory 
against TDP, but TDP scored 
14 points during a long fourth 
uater comeback attempt. The 
Met Knights scored 15 points in 
he first half but PKA pulled 
Dut a 22-17 win. ATO B scored 
a 20-9 win against DTD and 
PKA trounced PKT "Gold, 45-5.
This poem was written byStandings:WL
Carolyn Dlnzillo and printedEJs40
in the 1964 issue of PATPKA40
TERNS. Bring your art andMet Knights21
literary work to PATTERNS,ATO B23
Room 51, Skibo.TDP12
Deadline: Dec. 19.PKT Gold"04
DTD04
Canyou
meet the test?
B. Sc. Those letters have an im
pressive sound.
But they wont be so impressive 
if you get shunted off into some 
obscure corner of industry after 
you leave college. A forgotten man.
You want activity. You want to 
get in there and show your stuff.
All right. How do you propose to 
do it?
If you join the United States Air 
Force youll become an expert fast.
The Air Force is like that. They 
hand you a lot of responsibility fast. 
Through Officer Training School 
you get a chance to specialize 
where you want... in the forefront 
of modern science and technology.
Suppose, for example, you 
wanted to become a pilot and serve 
as aircraft commander on airplane 
crews. Youd plan missions and 
insure that the aircraft is pre-flighted, inspected, loaded and equip
ped for the assigned mission. Youll 
be trained to fly exciting aircraft.
Just examples. There are so 
many more.
Wouldnt it be pretty nice to en
joy officers pay and privileges? 
And serve your country, as well? 
Also, you get retirement benefits, 
30 days paid vacation, medical 
and dental care.
B. Sc. Very impressive letters.
Now, do something with them.
Heres everything you need to 
help you get a top score in the 
tests you have to pass.
 Up-to-date test material
 Best organized study guides 
o Dos and donts of test-taking
 Step-by-step programming
 Accurate practice tests
o Correct answers and solutions
 Self-evaluation profiles
COWLES SCORE-HlGH EXAM BOOKS
*iX 'i l..
1OMIAMEU OURtOI U8M6NBMENtB MENEAIU EUDE
with special Test-Yourself Examination bonus. 444 pages
*iX 'i l..
0M DR*tt0 MI6NDDNtB EUDE
6UINRM0 Rt00U1U MI6NDDNtB EUDE
IUBEM0 MENEAIU EUDE
6N00UO MBM0t1NUD EUDE
nUIUOM0 DUOwNRU UBEOMBRU U8M6NBMENtBD
1OMIAMEU VADNBUDD DR*tt0 MI6NDDNtB EUDE
BMENtBM0 EUMR*UO U8M6NBMENtBD
UlPa q,2Wy l!rs  t[rs Wvv !l3r.
24 GRE Advanced Tests also available
222 !hK.
Rt6AEUO Ot1OM66UO MENEAIU EUDED qf2Wy l!rs 
D*tOEcRAE D*tOE*MBILearn Shorthand in 40 Easy Lessons by $. M. Wesley, Ph.D.
q,2Wy l!rs
Available at your campus bookstore
STC\ COWLES EDUCATION CORPORATION
V3C/ LOOK Building/488 Madison Avenue, New York. New York 10022
ABNEUI DEMEUD MNO ntORUBox A, Dept. SCP-710Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148
Name(please print)
_______ClassCollege
Address
