CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
i VOLUME 55  NUMBER 18 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1963
As New Pershing Rifles Queen 
Sheryl Rakoff Initiates Pledges
Don Felix and his orchestra set 
the mood when the Pershing Rifles 
Company A, Fifth Regiment held 
their annual Coronation in the 
Skibo Balllroom on Saturday, 
March 2, to crown their new 
queen and to formally initiate 
eight new pledges to the national 
ROTC basic corps honorary.
At 10:00 p.m. the band was 
still and the snappy pledge 
class comprised of Tony Timers, 
John Everson, Mark Klein, George 
DeBolt, Roy Weil, A1 Willis, Jo
seph Shepard, and Tom Rodman, 
marched into the ballroom and 
formed a reception orientation. 
Distinguished Army Officers were 
recognized and the queen final
ists, Kristin Kelman, Eileen Mauclair, and Sheryl Rakoff were in
troduced. Then Miss Arlene Win
ner, the reigning queen, was es
corted to the stage.
Company A-5s advisor, Major 
Bohnert, opened a sealed envel
ope and this years queen was 
namedMiss Sheryl Rakoff, a 
freshman in the Department of 
Biology. Miss Winner bestowed 
the crown and cape, symbolic of 
her title, to Miss Rakoff, who then 
proceeded to button the distin
guished purple and white filagere on each P/R pledge. Thus 
she completed her first duty as 
queen by initiating them as full 
brothers of the Pershing Rifles 
military fraternity.
English Department Presents 
Tues. Lecture On Jack Kerouac
Jack Kerouac, whose Novel ON THE ROAD was long 
considered a major piece of beat literature, will be the 
subject of discussion by Mr. G. H. Jones at 11:30 in the Fine 
Arts Theatre on Tuesday, March 12.
The talk is the third in the current series of lectures 
being devoted by the Department* 
of English to the general topic
Literary Pioneers. The series 
will conclude with a discussion of 
William Golding on Tuesday, 
March 19.
Jerouac Thesis Subject
Mr. Jones who has been affili
ated with the Department of Eng
lish since 1960, has devoted much 
of his interest to the modern 
novel and has offered an elective 
course on it. He is a graduate of 
Baylor University and was granted 
his M.A. by Columbia Univer
sity, in part as a result of a 
thesis he wrote on Walt Whitman, 
Thomas Wolfe, and Kerouac.
Although ON THE ROAD is 
Kerouacs best known novel, the 
author has also created a stir in 
the world of contemporary fic
tion with THE SUBTERRANE
ANS and DOCTOR SAX. Sig
nificant is the fact that they are 
published as Evergreen Books by 
the Grove Press, a publishing or
ganization devoted to making 
available what it considers prom
ising fiction by writers of the 
present day.
E and S Frosli 
Raise Factor 
1st Semester
No, that lengthy list of names 
posted opposite Dean Browns of
fice does not represent the entire 
E & S freshman class. Look a lit
tle closer, and youll find a fac
tor of 3.00 or better listed beside 
every one of those sevesty-six 
names. This is the largest num
ber  and percentage  of Engi
neering and Science freshmen to 
make the Deans List in many 
years.
Five of these outstanding studests, Lawrence A. Dawson, Jr., 
Ronald P. Lupish, John H. Missimer, Lawrence R. Sulak, and Da
vid E. Woolf, deserve special rec
ognition for their accomplishment 
of earning 4.00 factors. Five 
others just missed the 4.00 magic 
circle by a B in one course: Al
fred B. Bortz, Joseph D. Bow
man, Robert J. Fritz, Christopher 
W. Macosko, and Gary A. Simon, 
includes Industrial Management 
freshmen) is 2.16. The median 
factor for the same group is 2.13.
Sheryl Rakoff crowned Queen, Pershing Rifles Dance, 
Company A, Fifth Regiment.
Technical Expands Headquarters, 
Plans New Feature For Magazine
1$
Combined Church Seminar 
Discuss Mass Media In Pgh
The Mass Media in Pittsburgh is the subject of a 
seminar -to be held in Oakland this week-end, March 8-March 
10, 1963. Sponsored by the campus ministries of the Baptist, 
the Methodist, the Presbyterian and the United Church of 
~~ ^Christ, the seminar is open to
Series Offers 
Voice Recital
The fifth concert in Carnegie 
Techs 1962-63 Carnegie Concert 
Series, a voice recital by Charles 
Gillespie, baritone, will be pre
sented tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Included on the program are 
Schumanns Die Dichterliebe, 
Op. 48; Don Quichotte a Dulcinee, by Ravel; Brittens Folk 
Sons of the British Isles; and 
Vision Fugitive, from Herodiade 
by Massanet. 'Nelson Whitaker 
will accompany Mr. Gillespie on 
the piano.
The recital is free and open to 
the public.
Student Court
Applications for positions 
on Student Court are now 
being accepted by Executive 
Council c-o Dean Strict's of
fice. Applications are due no 
later than 4:30 p.m. on Thurs
day, March 7.
students tnd faculty at all insti
tutions of higher education in the 
area. The program is designed to 
aid participants in gaining a bet
ter understanding of the role of 
mass communications in modernday society.
The leadership for the seminar 
includes representatives f r o ro 
WQED-TV, KDKA Radio, the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, The 
Pittsburgh Press, campus news
papers and radio stations, and the 
Pittsburgh Council of Churches.
The seminar will begin at 3:30 
p.m. Friday afternoon, at WQEDTV, Fifth & Bellefield and end 
on Sunday afternoon at Wesley 
House, 4307 Bigelow Boulevard, at 
1:30 p.m. The registration fee is 
$3.00 and includes the cost of two 
meals. Overnight living accom
modations will be available to 
communting students.
Further Information can be ob
tained and informations bade by 
calling the Westminster Founda
tion, 682-1730, The Wesley Foun
dation, 681-5906 or The Baptist 
Campus Ministry, 621-7821.
The AlWatcWhe staff discusses their new office and plans for the next issue.
The Carnegie Technical, al
ways with an eye toward im
proving publication, has changed 
its residences. Finding its former 
quarters in Skibo too small, the 
Technical this semester has 
moved to 145 Administration Hall. 
Its new home which was once the 
old typography lab will provide 
a more spacious and more ef
ficient area for the Technical 
staff in which to work. Over
seeing the Technicals change in 
location are recently enstated coeditors Elaine Vezzani and Chris 
Jernstedt.
Along with its new home, the 
Technical staff has many new 
ideas for coming issues. One of 
the most prominent among these 
is the plan to have faculty mem
bers as well as students contri
bute to the journal. These con
tributions will be in the form of 
feature articles concerning re
search and general scientific hap
penings on the Tech campus.
Any improvements made in the
Technical will serve to enhance 
the already impressive reputa
tion the Technical has won. The 
Carnegie Technical is one of three 
magazines of its kind available 
in the Library of Congress. It is 
now received by institutions in 
thirty-five foreign countries, in
cluding the University of Moscow.
The Technical staff would like 
to speak with anyone wishing to 
work on the Technical either this 
year or next year. If you are in
terested, drop into AH 145 at 
any time.

---------------------------------------------------

Pae 2  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, Marth 6. 1963
ROTC Selects Entertainment 
For (ala Military Ball, April 6
The Harold Betters Combo and 
the Bobby Vinton Orchestra will 
provide the music for the Military 
Ball on April 6. During the inter
mission comedian Billy Webb will 
entertain and act as Master of 
Ceremonies. The Harold Betters 
group will furnish music for 
faster numbers in the Wherrett 
Room while Bobby Vintons or
chestra will provide the melodies 
for dancing in the main ballroom 
of Ski bo.
Billy Webb is a well-k n o w n 
ight-club comedian and enter
tainer. performing in all parts of 
the country. Among his appear
ances here in Pittsburgh have 
been engagements at the Holiday 
House, Riviera Room, and Horizon 
Room.
Tech students are already familar with the Harold Be tters 
Combo which has made several 
appearances on campus. The 
group has recently given a con
cert at Syria Mosque and recorded 
a verv fine LP album.!The Bobby Vinton Orchestra 
became popular under band lead
er and singer Bobby V.'nton. AlBilly Webb
though no longer under his direc
tion it still plays many college 
and nightclub engagements and 
stands as a fine band in its own 
right.
The Military Ball will be held 
from nine to one. Tickets are 
available to persons not in 
R.O.T.C. from the Military De
partment Office.
Gallery Shows 
Scotch Italics
Examples of italic handwriting 
from Scotland, and calligraphy 
and lettering by students in the 
department of graphic arts will be 
exhibited in the new Porter Gar
nett Gallery, Monday, March 4 
thru Sunday,. March 17.
The Scotish italic handwriting 
examples represent the work of 
elementary and secondary school 
students and adults under the di
rection of Tom Gourdie. The cal. ligraphy and lettering samples are 
taken from student work done in 
the clases of noted calligrapher 
Arnold Bank.
The Porter Garnett Gallery is 
located on the third floor of Ad
ministration Hall. It is open from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays, 
I and from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon 
on Saturday.
Judo Cfub
The Judo Club is attempting to 
regain recognition as an official 
campus activitity from Student 
Congress. All students interested 
in joining the proposed Judo Club 
are asked to indicate their in
terest by dropping a note to 
: Charles Ho Fook, Box 263, Cam pus Mail. We welcome those stu
dents who have had no experi
ence in our gentle art, as well 
as the more experienced players. 
Judo is not a purely masculine 
sportwomen have complete 
equality.
Here is your opportunity to live 
i a full life as the ancient Greeks 
| saw it. Mens sana in sano corpore 
I a sound mind in a sound body.
Ei;ggy Entries
Any CIT organization interested^ 
in entering a Buggy in sweep.
1 stakes competition contact Blaine 
Cliver, Sigma Nu House, MA 1- 
1528.
Informal Discussions
The informal discussion group 
will meet this Thursday, March 7, 
at 11:30 a.m. in the Blue Room 
of Morewood Gardens for lunch 
and discussion with Dr. Insulberg, 
professor of Child and Adolescenr' 
Development, who will speak on 
i Early Marriages. All are invited 
! to attend.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Work Way
Dr. Hart Discusses T. S. Eliot In Thru Europe 
Opening English Lecture Series
Dr. John A. Hart, English pro
fessor, opened the English depart
ments annual spring lecture se
ries February 26. with the first 
f four discussions on literary 
pioneers.
Considering T. S. Eliot one of 
the foremost pioneers, Dr. Hart 
analyzed two of the poets major 
works, The Wasteland and "The 
Four Quartets. He said that Eliot 
is important for his use of im
agery, illusions, fragmentation of 
time, qualities of the narrator, 
and the emotional order created 
in his poetry.
Dr. Hart explained that Eliot 
*ets forth ideas disturbing to the 
reader. In The. Wasteland he 
writes of our centurys non
ruralized, meaningless life. There, 
Hart says that Eliot finds nothing
but memories of the past and de
sire, and represents anticipation.
There is a tremendous range 
of tone in the 'Four Quartets, 
far more subtly done than in his 
earlier poems, said Hart! He ex
plained that the Quartets em
phasize the meaning of true con
sciousness more than the aspects 
of time as found in "The Waste
land.
Hart said that Eliot gives no 
special formula either for sidecovering true perception nor for 
learning how to detach ones self 
from the wasteland. He con
tinued that possibly this lack is 
the reason that our century is 
ready, to dispense with the poet. 
But, Dr. Hart concluded, He 
should not be set aside. His ideas 
are too central to our neds.
The American Student Informa
tion Service is again offering more 
than 3,000 summer jobs for 
American students in Europe. For 
students who have a limited bud
get, this plan offers an ideal op
portunity for meeting Europeans 
and developing a speaking know
ledge of a foreign language. While 
the program is designed primarily 
for language majors, ASIS will 
provide language records to help 
students meet the minimum re
quirements. Openings include of
fice work, factory work, camp 
counseling, farm work, and many 
other positions.
Interested students may obtain 
a prospectus listing all jobs and 
a Job Application form by writ
ing Dept. K, ASIS, 22 Ave. de 
Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg, and en
closing $1.00 Travel grants and 
cash scholarships will be awarded 
to the first 1500 applicants.
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack CCC AR Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
NEGI
Engineering Graduates
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana, 
invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Our 
representative will be on your campus on Wednesday, March 
13. Contact Mr. Charles E. Wangeman for an appointment.
STUOTF HLYYU PMJPOTY
INDIANA HARBOR WORKS
EAST CHICAGO. INDIANA
the 
young 
man 
who 
tabs 
his 
collars 
wears
PRSPKYLYYR*
suits
He depends on Cricketeer's Great Grey" approach to tradition to 
take him through important days (and evenings). Cant resist the 
way they shed new light on his favorite subject...the,lighter 
colored suit. See "Great Greys at their traditional best in Magna 
2x2, the finest of Dacron* polyester and worsted tropical weaves, 
Cricketeer tailored lean and natural. $55/0.
Coordinated tab collar shirts in solids and stripes. $5.00 to $6.50.
(tarlj H0110?
Traditiosal Aflparel jor Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone JA. 1-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings until
Eliminate checking account service charges permanently!
At Union Nation) Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance There's no service charge. No maintenance 
charge No charge tor new checks No charge tor deposits. Pay your 
bills the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free po/sonal checking account Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOD STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
FtCKAAl fttSCftVt SVSTtM HOCHAI Of POSIT INSOfiAMCf COftPOftATKM

---------------------------------------------------

BYHL OJYRSPOT 
FSUJ MF NEG2!"
Time Magazine
Wednesday, March , 1965  CARNEGIE TECH  Pae X
C-BOOK SUPPLEMENT | bring all the C-Books up to date. 
This is the last week for sub- If you have forgotten to mail ia 
mitting corrections for the C-Book your new address, do it now. 
supplement. Alpha Phi Omega is Just fill out the form below and 
planning to distribute 2300 copies j send it to Alpha Phi Omega, Bo* 
of the supplement in an effort to I 282, Campus Mail.
Beth And Photographer Choose 
Photographs To Send To Glamour
ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
C Book 
Box 282
On Friday, March 1, Beth Par
kinsons photographs for the 
Best-Dressed contest were sent 
in to Glamour magazine. Among 
various sites chosen by Beth and 
the photographer, Aron Collons, 
were: the Tech record room in 
Skibo; the Skibo lobby, (for class
room scenes); the Fine Arts Stage 
and Hall of Architecture for street 
shots, and the Hunt Botanical 
Library for the formal scenes,
Beth, as mentioned in the last 
issue, is a senior English major 
and a member of Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority. She is also a 
member of the Thistle copyright
ing staff, English Discussion 
Group, pledge-trainer for her so
rority, and a contributor to the 
Tartan and Pattern literary maga
zine. Her favorite pastime is read
ing, and her favorite sports are 
sailing and skiing.
Panhellenic Council has voted 
to continue the tradition of the 
Best-Dressed contest for at least 
another year since it turned out so 
successfully this year. It will be 
conducted next year, as it has 
been this year, in conjunction 
with Glamour magazine.
MajorName
Address
Phone Number
(Author of J Was a Teen-age Dwarf, 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
HAIL TO THE DEAN!
Today let us examine that much maligned, widely misunder
stood, grossly overworked, wholly dedicated campus figure  
the dean.
The dean (from the Latin Deanereto expel) is not, as many 
think, primarily a disciplinary officer. He is a counselor and 
guide, a haven and refuge for the troubled student. The dean 
(from the Greek Deanosto skewer) is characterized chiefly by 
sympathy, wisdom, patience, forbearance, and a fondness for 
homely pleasures like community singing, farina, spelldowns, 
and Marlboro Cigarettes. The dean (from the German Deangemachtto poop a party) is fond of Marlboros for the same 
reason that all men of good will are fond of Marlborosbecause 
Marlboro is an honest cigarette. Those good Marlboro tobaccos 
are honestly good, honestly aged to the peak of perfection, hon
estly blended for the best of all possible flavors. Marlboro 
honestly comes in two different containers a soft pack which 
is honestly soft and a Flip-Top box which honestly flips. You 
too will flip when next you try an honest Marlboro, which, one 
honestly hopes, will be soon.
Photo by Aron Collons
Beth Parkinson decides which photos to send to sehEroniLincoln Laboratory has 
openings for a limited 
number of engineers, 
physicists and mathema
ticians in original re
search and development 
activities.
Winner of 2 Academy Awards!
BEST DIRECTOR" AND BEST SCREENPLAY
Rut I digress. We were learning how a dean helps poor, 
troubled undergraduates. To illustrate, let us take a typical
case from the files of Dean S...........of the University of Y.. ...
(Oh, why be so mysterious? The deans name is Sigafoos and 
the University is Yutah.)
Wise, kindly Dean Sigafoos was visited one day by a fresh
man named Walter Aguincourt who came to ask permission to 
marry one Emma Blenheim, his dormitory laundress. To the 
dean the marriage seemed ill-advised, for Walter was only 18 
years old and Emma was 91. Walter agreed with the dean, but 
said he felt obligated to go through with it because Emma had 
invested her life savings in a transparent rainhood to protect
Lincoln Laboratory is an 
electronics research and 
development center es
tablished by M.I.T. in 
1951.
AN UNUSUAL 
LOVE STORY1
TRI-STATE PREMIERE
BEGINS AT 2 P.M. TODAY
New Policy  Daily Matinees 
For This EngagementSQ HILL
SQ. HILL  HA. 1-4909
<
JUNIORS, SENIORS and 
HUTMPM GRADUATE STUDENTSMn-Pampus SnteRviews
MARCH 29th
Both Permanent and Summer Positions Are Available In Philadelphia, 
Penna., Dallas, Texas, and Toledo, Ohio For Men In These Fields:
 CHEM. ENGRG.
 MECH. ENGRG. 
e ELEC. ENGRG.
 CHEMISTRY
 OPERATIONS RES.
 MATHEMATICS
 ACCOUNTING
 BUSINESS ADMIN.
 IND. MGMT./ADMIN.
 ECONOMICS
 MARKETING
 TRANSPORTATION
ycTcm dron kehWlEltg ummcWl trv gr Schedule an p!!rctgEltgF Cm !lnK
Trthe ctglnfclv cT ctWrtfltcltgi vncgl gr SreelVl MlehgcrtT HcfcTcrt -
HUT MSU PMJPOTY
1608 Walnut Street Philadelphia 3, Penna.
pt OIohe u!!rngotcgd OE!erdln
OUR REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS
PpMSN 
CONTACT YOUR 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 
NOW
Research and Development
1
LINCOLN LABORATORY
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology
Box 21 Lexington 73 
Massachusetts
her from the mist at Niagara Falls, where they planned to sj*nd 
their honeymoon. If Walter called off the wedding, what use 
would the poor woman possibly have for a rainhood in Yutah? 
The wise, kindly dean pondered briefly and came up with a 
brilliant answer: let Walter punch holes in the back of Emmas 
steam iron. With steam billowing back at the old lady, she 
would find a rainhood very usefulpossibly even essential.
Whimpering with gratitude, Walter kissed the deans Phi 
Beta Kappa key and hastened away to follow his advice -and 
the results, I am pleased to report, were madly successful!
Today Emma is a happy womansinging lustily, wearing 
her rainhood, eating soft-center chocolates, and ironing clothes 
twice as happy, to be candid, than if she had married Walter 
. . . And what of Walter? He is happy too. Freed from his un
wanted liaison with Emma, he married a girl much nearer his 
own ageAgnes Yucca, 72. Walter is now the proud father 
stepfather, to be perfectly accurateof three fine, healthy 
boys from Agnes's first marriageEverett, 38; Wilhelm, 43; 
and Irving, 55and when Walter puts the boys on a lead and 
takes them for a stroll in the park on Sunday afternoon, you 
may be sure there is not a dry eye in Yutah.
And Dean Sigafoos? He too is happyhappy to spend long, 
tiring hours in his little office, giving counsel without stint and 
without complaint, doing his bit to set the young, uncertain 
feet of his charges on the path to a brighter tomorrow.
We don t say MarUtoro is the dean of fitter cigarettes, but 
ue're sure it's at the head of the class. Cet some #oortwherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states of the Union.'

---------------------------------------------------

Pace 4  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March C, 193
This Week in Pitt sburgh
THURSDAY, MARCH 7
Film Arts  West Front 1918 (Germany 1930) shown 
at 4:30, 7:00 and 9:30 in Porter Hall 100.
FRIDAY, MARCH 8 and SUNDAY, MARCH 10
Pittsburgh Symphony  Andre Vandernoot, 
conductor; Samuel haviu, violin; Shubert  
Symphony No. 5 in B-Flat Major; Allan Berg  
Three Pieces for Orchestra, Opus 6; Bruch  Scotish 
Fantasy for Violin and Orchestra; Bartk - Dance 
Suite.
SATURDAY, MARCH 9
Carnegie Music Hall  Budapest String Quartet; 
Alexander Schneider, violin; Boris Kroyt, viola; 
Mischa Schneider, cello; Bach-Mozart  Prelude and 
Fugue in D minor; Reger  String Trio in A minor, 
Opus 77B; Beethoven  String Trio in C Minor, 
Opus 9. No. 3. Student tickets available in Office 
of the Dean CFA.
Opening March 9 in the Playhouse Theater Upstairs  
Alfonso Sastres Anna Kleiber.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Carnegie Institute  Persian Art from the Collection 
of Walter Read Hovy  Treasure Room, Scrupture 
Court Balcony.
Civic Arena  The Ice Follies (closes March 9)
Penn  Milk and Honey National touring company 
starring Robert Weeds and Molly Picon
Playhouse  Bye Bye Birdie  Craft Ave. Theatre 
The Fifth Season  Hamlet Street Theatre
Fulton  The Longest Day
Nixon  Mutiny of the Bounty  Marlon Brando
Squirrel Hill The Loneliness of the Long Distance 
Runner
Shadyside  Carry on Teacher
Guild  Phaedra  Tony Perkins and Melina 
Marcouri
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
College of Fine Arts
Paintings by Russel Twiggs  Hewlett Gallery 
March 6  Voice Recital  Charles Gillespie, 
Baritone; Nelso Whitaker, Piano; 8:30 p.m.
Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Sunday, March 10  Carnegie Theater, College or 
Fine Arts, 8:30 p.m. a special presentation of the 
opera King Arthur by Purcell in concert 
version with soloists, chorus and orchestra con
ducted by Sidney Harth.
Department of English
March 12Lecture Series  Fine Arts Theater at 
11:30  On the Road by Jack Kerouac will be the 
subject of a lectur by Granville H. Jones.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 3-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 
1-1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Portage Ppid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief ................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor.....................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ......................................Miron Straf
News Editor ....................................................Margie Park
Assistant News Editor................................ Jan Scharp
Features Editor .................... ............B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ....................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager ......................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor.............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .........................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaurn. Colin Jones. Margie Park, Henry Henderson, 
B. J. Zimnewicz, Miron Straf, and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Nancy Cameron. Mike McCoy. Sue Sti*t, Marion Mulligan, Drew
Lippay, Dick Elder. Fritz Klinke, Tom Glassberg.
New* Stan: Colin Jones, Marty Mooie. Fay Landau. Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky. Jaje Lapidus. Elie Denbeig, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan. Lois 
ElinolT. Janice l.ester, Jam Leone. Marty Sau<*r. Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers. Jan Scharp. Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hantill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sports: Scott McCormick, Ken Kantrowf',/.Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and 
Leslie McKinley.
Circulation: Tom Johnson. George Kail and Jay Priest,
Featare* Staff: Andrea Nether. Joan Hoexter. Jane Skeehan. Ruth Ge.-hekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis. Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad. Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers. Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer. Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.C*py Staff: Jane Keeler. Barbara Brown, Jane Samuels. Diane Brown, Mary 
Muti. Claire Dzatko. Nancy Green, Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream, Nancy Cameron. 
Photoirapkjr: Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinbaugh, Bill Jackson.
N.S.F. Provides 
Grant For 
Tech Research
High school students from the 
Pittsburgh area and from across 
the country will again have the 
opportunity to become active 
members of a Carnegie Tech en
gineering research team because 
of a recent grant by the National 
Science Foundation.
The students, who will work 
with a team composed of senior 
: faculty members, graduates, and 
undergraduates, will have the opj port unity to take part in on-going 
research projects in one part of 
Techs two phase program. T h e 
first phase, which will begin in 
June, will consist of a nine-week 
summer program and will be open 
to students from all parts of the 
country. The second phase will 
; start in the 1963-64 academic 
year, and will be held on Satur
days during the school year for 
high school students in the Pitts
burgh area.
The primary aim of the high 
school research participation, sup
ported by grants of approximately 
$40,000 from the N.S.F., is the accelerat;on of motivation of excep
tionally able high school students 
toward professional careers in en
gineering and science. Techs pro
gram is one of perhaps two or 
three in the country which is 
oriented entirely towards research 
! in engineering. Participating de
partments are chemical, civil, 
electrical, mechanical and metal
lurgical engineering.
The program is aimed at sup
plementing rather than supplant
ing the normal high school in
structional activity and hopefully 
at clarifying the activities and 
areas involved in engineering and 
| science to combat the recent de
crease in the production Of en
gineering graduates throughout 
the United States.
Tartan Seeds 
Staff Editors
The time is fast approaching 
when the present TARTAN edi
torial staff must turn over lead
ership of the organization to a 
new group of staff editors. By the 
middle of April the new staff will 
be actively engaged in publishing 
the weekly newspaper while the 
retiring members will step back 
offering only advice if needed.
Any person interested in par
ticipating on the Tartan staff as a 
staff editor for the coming activi
ties year is invited to apply for 
the position in which he is 
interested. Applications will be 
accepted for the positions listed 
on the masthead. Applications 
should include a statement of in
terest, qualifications for the posi
tion, and other activities. Previous 
Tartan experience is helpful but 
not necessary for all positions. All 
applications must be received by 
Friday, March 15, and should be 
sent to Martin Ackermann, the 
Tartan, in care of Dr. Stricks 
office, Skibo.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Power Corrupts
Labor unions were at one time underdogs fighting the 
entrenched power of the capitalists. After a long and bloody 
history the unions managed to obtain a position from which 
they could bargain with a high degree of success for better 
working conditions and wages for their members. This 
power on the part of unions is fully consistent with the 
establishment of a free society. Without labor unions 
the modern corporation, wielding the great power that it 
has, could force the average worker to accept far less than.) 
he has today because of the disparity of the bargaining 
power between the two. If the individuals freedom and 
power to bargain for his wages are to be preserved, union 
organizations are a necessity.
However, today the pendulum of power seems to be 
swinging too far toward the union side. Unions are able to 
dictate to their members, restrict entry, and wield more 
power at the bargaining table than management. Unions 
have become perversions of their original form internally. 
Union locals have been placed under direct control of the 
international (under trusteeship) because the local dis
agreed with the leadership of the union on policy matters 
for instance.
Many solutions to the union problem have been pro
posed: One is that union activities be placed under the anti
trust laws. This may sound fair, but it is unrealistic to ex
pect collective bargaining to result between a small union 
and a large company. Another suggested solution (by Bobby 
Kennedy, among others) is that restrictions be placed on 
the collective bargaining processperhaps compulsory 
arbitration or a wage control board. This solution has the 
disadvantage of removing still another freedom from those 
persons most intimately concerned. It is better to leave 
things as they are than to reduce freedom on both sides. 
(This is a value judgment that has been previously dis
cussed.)
What can be done then? Unions could be made to have 
frequent secret elections of their officers (outlaw trustee
ship), secret balloting on each contract offer that manage
ment proposes (safeguards would have to be placed here 
to make certain that management would not abuse this), 
forbid closed shops (permit free entry), and perhaps out- , 
law the union shop (have right-to-work laws). An ex-' 
ample of present conditions: Closed shop agreements exist 
in the electrical trade in New York City. As a result, there 
is a labor shortage in that trade, and the union will not al
low many new electricians to join the union. The union has 
a monopoly of labor, and is maximizing its present mem
bers benefits. It is up to some force to intervene, and stop 
it from taking advantage of the captive consumer.
It should be noted that while the proposals just made 
are restrictions, they are actually only modifications of the 
Wagner Act which first introduced major restrictions onto^ 
the labor scene. Union leaders are hurting their members 
and other individuals (managers and consumers) unduely 
by their actionsthis is in itself valid reason for restriction. 
(Actually this is not clearany restrictions should be im
posed with utmost caution.)
The proposals made are not meant to be an answer to 
the problem; they are only a starting point. It is necessary 
to make a start.
Executives Help Develop  
General Management Potential
C7
Monrad Chosen As 
Committeeman
Prof. C. C. Monrad, Head of 
Techs Chemical Engineering De
partment, is a member of the 
Committee of Award which will 
select the 1963 winner of the 
Kirkpatrick Award for Chemical 
Engineering Achievement.
The award is presented every 
other year by Chemical Engineer
ing, McGraw-Hill publication, to 
the company making the most 
meritorious contribution to the 
1 advance of the chemical process 
, industries and the chemical en
gineering profession. The award 
recognizes group effort rather 
than individual achievement.
The winning company will re! ceive a bronze plaque at a formal 
. dinner on Dec. 3.
Twenty-seven executives repre
senting companies in nine states, 
the District of Columbia, South 
America, Holland, and India, will 
spend nine weeks at Tech in the 
annual Program for Executives 
(PFE) sponsored by the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra tion.
The executives, representing 
companies in many areas of in
dustry, will stay at Carnegie Tech 
from March 4 to May 3. This is 
the tenth annual PFE and more 
than 250 executives have partici
pated in the program since its 
founding in 1954.
GSIAs program is designed for 
mature executives who have de
monstrated strong potential for 
general management responsibili
ties. The programs objectives are 
to help such men develop an an
alytical, company-wide approach 
to management problems; to deep
en their understanding of mani agement responsibilities; and to 
sharpen their awareness of the 
J important economic and political 
forces which provide the environ
ment for management decisions.
To implement these objectives,
sity major courses will be offered 
in an integrated program. Bus
iness Policy, Human Relations and 
Administration, Labor and Man
agement Problems, Quantitative 
Tools for Managerial DecisionMaking and Control, Business in 
the Changing Environment, and 
Ideas, Change and the Corpora
tion will be taught by the regular 
GSIA faculty.
Budapest Quartet 
Visits Music Hall
One of the greatest names in 
music since it first appeared in 
Central Europe more than four , 
decades ago, the Budapest String 
Quartet is making its thirty-sec
ond U.S. tour this year. They will 
perform at the Carnegie Music 
Hall on Saturday, March 9 at 8:30 
p.m.
The program includes: BachMozart Prelude and Fugue in D 
Minor; Reger, String Trio in A 
Minor, Opus 77B; Beethoven, 
String Trio in C Minor, Opus 9, 
No. 3. ^

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March S. 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 5
'Top Team Of Mathias And Peters National Companies Represent 
Heads Coming SnS Production At College Music Competition
Lycoming College. Williamsport, ; consists of $950 in cash, troph
Just what makes a muiscal 
comedy tick? It takes one skillful 
choreographer and an experienc
ed director to whip all of the raw 
Kflnaterial of the show into a finish
ed production. With Dinah Ma
thias as choreographer and Ho
ward Peters directing, the S n S 
cast is about to be put through 
months of toil under the guidance 
of this very able pair.
Dinah, a Senior drama student, 
has been dancing for years, of 
course, and has extensive experi
ence in composing the dance num
bers for several shows since she 
'iias been at Tech.
Last year she was S n S choreo
grapher and worked at Central 
Catholic High School, staging the 
musical numbers for The Boy 
Friend. She also worked this 
year at Central- on Wheres 
Charlie?.
Dinah also assisted televisions 
Pete Hamilton during her Sopho
more year in the choreography of 
'Anything Goes.
 She has spent time with the 
Valley Forge and Camden County 
Musical Circuses and at the 
Northeastern Ballet Festival. This 
year she is st,age managing Mis
alliance.
Howrad Peters is a newcomer 
to the S n S group, with a back
ground of experience which more 
than designates him as an able 
man for the job.
^ Howard is a Senior directing 
major, but as a member of the 
department, he also has acting
AIME Names 
Dean McCabe 
Director
Charles L. McCabe, associate 
dean of graduate studies at Car
negie Tech has been named uirector of the Metallurgical So
ciety, American Institute of Min
ing, Metallurgical, and Petroleum 
Engineers (AIME).
Dr. McCabe, who is also pro
fessor and head of the department 
of metallurgical engineering and 
director of the metals research 
^laboratory at Tech, assumes his 
new position immediately. The 
announcement was made at the 
AIMEs 92nd Annual Meeting cur
rently being held in Dallas, Texas.
Dr. McCabe received his B.S. 
degree from Dickinson College, 
and his M.S. and Sc.D. from Car
negie Tech. After serving as an 
instructor at Harvard University, 
he came to Tech in 1961 as a 
^member of the staff in the metals 
research laboratory.
it
flick/f r oufc i y
IONITE ftT THE
' sTRnnDy
OAKLAND
NOW SHOWING 
WKO., THURS., FBI.. SAT. 
Academy Award Winner
in color
THE SKY ABOVE, 
THE MUD BELOW
also 
Shirley Eaton
NO PLACE LIKE 
HOMICIDE
Starting Sun. Mar. 1#
Steve Rcoves
HERCULES
in color also 
Anthony Quinn 
and Sophia Loren
ATTILA
in color Coming soon 
Yu! Rrinner Tonr Curii 
TARAS BULBA
MU. 3-5992
Lycoming College, Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania, will sponsor an 
Inter-Collegiate Musical C o mpetition on May 9 and 10, 1963. 
Any student jazz, rock and roll, 
or vocal group may apply. There 
will be representatives present 
from Capital Records, Inc., Penn 
World Attractions, and others to 
be announced later. Prizes will
consists of $950 in cash, trophies,
; and other non-case items. This is 
i an excellent opportunity for a 
! college group to become recogniz
ed. Applications and information 
may be obtained from Lycomini 
College, Williamsport, Pennsyl
vania. Deadline for application 
will be March 15, 1963.
Dinah Mathias and Howard Peters discuss plans for 
the new Scotch n* Soda production.
experience. His work both within 
and outside of the department is 
extensive. He spent a summer 
with the Old Globe Shakespeare 
Festival, another at the Illinois 
Wesleyan University, and another 
at the Motion Picture Workshop 
at New York University, and 
spent last summer as assistant di
rector for the Civic Light Opera. 
This year he directed the original
play by Kenneth Cameron, The 
Hundred and First.
This only begins to list the 
qualifications and experience of 
the pair which will be directly 
responsible for the outcome of 
S n S 63 show. With two people 
of such caliber guiding the talent 
and energy of a fine cast, we can 
look with high expectation toward 
this years production.
CARN 
EGIRL... 
STUDENTS 
CAN AFFORD!
STUDY-TRAVEL 
PROGRAMS
some scholarship 
assistance available 
Also Work Camp 
& Hosteling 
42-46 land days ... from $300
33 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Central Europe 
Eastern Europe & USSR 
Scandinavia  Spain 
Turkey  South America 
Israel  Greece 
36-T>0 land days . . . from $510
also
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP 
DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS
and
BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS
$239 all-inclusive by air
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS
International Student ID card.................................................... $1.00
Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants) $1.00Work, Study, Travel Abroad......................................................... $1,00
European charter flights and other transportation
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 
SO West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y 
OXford 5-5070"SNSA is a non-profit organisation serving the American student eommnnity
How far
can your ideas
take you in the new world
of opportunity
in data processing
at IBM?
Growth and discovery: The develop
ment and application of data processing 
at ibm open a new world of exciting 
opportunities for individual career 
growth. Data processing is producing 
some of the most far-reaching develop
ments of our age. Each basic advance 
in technology and application requires 
new concepts. Ideasnew thinking and 
new ways to approach problemsare 
needed. For the individual who likes 
to discard conventional solutions and 
find new ideas, theres room to grow 
in ibm.
Don offers graduates with Bachelors or 
advanced degrees in Engineering, the 
Sciences, Business Administration, 
Economics, or Liberal Arts challenging 
assignments in the marketing of in
formation systems and equipment. 
These opportunities increase with each 
new system that is designed to meet the 
growing needs of business, industry, 
government, research, education, and 
space. Each technological advance and 
each new application can enlarge the 
scope of your own career at DonF
A wide range of positions: Reward
ing opportunities will exist in more than 
190 Don Sales and Service Offices, 
located in major cities throughout the 
United States. Positions open include:
Marketing-Sales: The Don Data Proc
essing Representative is a consultant 
to his customers. He calls on customer 
executives, giving timely information, 
presentations, and demonstrations for 
better business management and con
trols through data processing.
Systems Engineering: Don Data Proc
essing Systems Engineers are men and 
women who study customer require
ments in depth, devise the best ap
proach, define a preferred machine and 
operational solution, and assist in the 
implementation of this solution.
Customer Engineering: The Don Cus
tomer Engineer is a specialist in preci
sion data processing machines and 
systems. He' is responsible for the in
stallation, maintenance, and function
ing of Donel vast line of electronic and 
electromechanical equipment.
Opportunities for advancement: ibm
offers you extensive initial training, 
both in the classroom and on the job, 
in the area of your special interest. This 
trainingcontinues as you advance along 
a planned career path leading to pro
fessional or managerial positions, iVO 
also offers company-sponsored educa
tion programs to keep you abreast of 
developments in your field, and a tuition-refund plan to give you financial 
assistance for graduate study.
Company-paid employee benefit plans 
are comprehensive, and include life in
surance, family hospitalization and 
major-medical coverage, sickness and 
accident pay, and retirement benefits, 
to name but a few.
See your college placement director to 
determine when Don will interview on 
campus, and make an appointment to 
see our representative. We will be glad 
to discuss openings and opportunities at 
Doni including our training and educa
tion programs, financial rewards, and 
company benefits, Don is an Equal Op
portunity Employer.
For information on career opportunities, write or call: R. W. Paulin, Br. 
Mgr., IBM Corp., 421 7th Avenue, Pittsburgh 19, Pa. CO 1-6880.DATA PROCESSINO DIVISIONIBM

---------------------------------------------------

Page fi  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, Marth fi, 1963
Cox, Eiger Advise For j Dept- Presents
T T , . English Opera,Industry Interviews * Argur,,
Sigma Nu fraternity recently 
entertained at dinner two recruit
ers from companies interviewing 
on the Tech campus. They were 
Mr. Edward Cox of Dupont and 
Mr. Joseph Eiger of Shell Oil. 
Some of the Sigma Nus had felt a 
need to talk with interviewers on 
an unofficial basis, concerning 
problems in job-hunting proce
dure. Mr. J. D. Ryan of Techs 
placement bureau, was helpful in 
arranging these meetings, and 
suggested that the subject be di
vided into two areas.
Mr. Cox spoke on some of the 
major considerations in prepar
ing for, and undergoing the job 
interview. This experienced re
cruiter stressed the importance of 
the students having a thorough 
knowledge of the areas open to 
him and some general idea of the 
type of work for which he is best 
suited. In this way, when the stu
dent begins the interviewing proc
ess, he knows what he wants to 
do and, just as important, what 
he does not want to do. In addi
tion to thorough preparation, Mr. 
Cox also stated that the right at
titude is essential to a successful 
interview. The student must re
member that the process works 
both ways: both student and in
terviewer should be asking the 
question, What can I do for 
you? Mr. Cox recommended that 
this could be effected best through 
a sincere, purposeful, and candid 
manner. It is then possible to 
achieve a meeting of the minds, 
wherein both interviewer and in
terviewee accurately understand
the others situation. This is the 
real purpose of the interview.
Mr. Eiger led a general discus
sion on what jobs are being ofj fered by industry, and how to go 
1 about choosing the job which will 
allow the student to perform his 
best.. A former undergraduate of 
Carnegie Tech (C.E. 47), Mr.
Eiger is in charge of recruiting for 
Shell and therefore very much 
qualified to speak on this .topic. 
He quoted statistics pointing out 
the shortage of technical profes
sionals, and their consequent high 
demand. But, not every job for 
which the student is qualified is 
right for him and may, in fact, 
cause him great harm by stifling 
his professional enthusiasm. Mr. 
Eiger emphasized that the student 
should start, as early as possible 
in his college career, to talk with 
men working in his field of edu
cation. Only by thoroughly famil
iarizing himself with his oppor
tunities can the student make the 
best decision at hiring time. This 
recruiter went on to give ex
amples of the large variety of 
technical jobs available, and also 
emphasized that every one of 
them will require a lifelong proc
ess of education and re-education.
A seldom performed English 
opera, King Arthur, will be 
presented on March 10 by the 
music department. This opera, 
whose subtitle Is The British 
Worthy, honors the British na
tion. It was originally designated 
in the 17th century fashion as a 
Drama with Music. John Dryden, 
poet laureate from 1670 to 1689, 
and Henry Purcell, court mu
sician, shared an interest in esta
blishing a national British opera. 
King Arthur is the result of 
their consequent collaboration. Be
cause the original manuscript has 
been lost, modern performances 
are difficult and require extensive 
research. For this reason the 
work is seldom performed.
The performance of King 
Arthur will be a premiere in 
Pittsburgh and will be done in 
concert version. Sidney Harth 
will conduct this special presen
tation with soloists, chorus, and 
orchestra coming from the fac
ulty, undergraduates, and grad
uates.
The performance is scheduled 
scheduled for 8:30, Sunday, March 
10, in the Fine Arts Theater. The 
concert is free and the public is 
invited to attend.
Engineering Trainees s6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
JYPHOTSPOU MR YUYPLRSPOU
Call
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1 -8926
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, 22
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women 
when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it.Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best 
after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns.
Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it 
helps prevent blemishes.So who can blame them if Bracers crisp, long-lasting aroma 
Hist happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because 
J this elfect.
Wt*feUelligentl IMJ
Big Band Jazz Comes To Pgh. 
On March 14 At Syria Mosque
Pittsburgh has long been with
out the exciting sound of a big 
band playing jazz  but this 
condition wont exist for long. 
The Paul Hubinon-Ray DeFade 
eighteen piece jazz orchestra will 
be in concert at the Syria Mosque 
on March 14.
This jazz orchestra possesses a 
brilliance which cannot be ex
pressed in words  only in sound. 
Its impeccable style and excep
tional tonal attack won five 
awards at the 1963 Villanova Jazz 
Festival: Best Group; Best Big 
Band; Best Original Composi
tion; Best Trumpet Player (Paul 
Hubinon); Best Potential Brass 
Soloist (Joe Kennedy). Paul Hub
inon is said to be second only to 
Maynard Ferguson as a jazz 
trumpet player.
The orchestra will be playing 
twelve original arrangements at
the show; and these will be re
corded live and later released as 
an album. For the more inti
mate sounds of jazz, the show 
will also include well known 
Pittsburgh jazz artists, Walt Har
per and Ron Leibfried. If you 
like jazz  especially big band 
jazz  you wont want to miss 
this show.
Tickets are available at a spec
ial student rate of $1.95 in 233 
Donner, B-321 Hamerschlag, or by 
writing to: SPENCEK PRODUC
TIONS, Box No. 758, Campus 
Mail. There are no reserve seats 
being sold.
Incidentally, if you wont be 
able to make the concert, but 
would still like to hear the mar
velous sound of the Paul Hubinon 
Ray DeFade Orchestra, a rebroadcast of the Villanova Jazz 
Festival can be heard on BANDL.AND over WRCT this coming 
Sunday night at 9.00 p.m.
! TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
zu QpCACzs OLkOMA RpMROMD
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Dally MU. 2-9969
AN OPPORTUNITY TO GROW 
IN THE HIGHEST PROFESSIONAL 
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
PHYSICISTS 
MATHEMATICIANS
Technical representatives 
of the MITRE Corporation 
will be conducting interviews 
on campusJaRch 20, NEGI
MITRE designs and develops systems that enable our mili
tary commanders to detect attack and retaliate instantly. 
Typical systems include Nuclear Detection and Reporting 
Systems, North American Air Defense Combat Operations 
Center, and Back Up Interceptor Center. MITRE is also 
experimenting with techniques for future air traffic con
trol systems.
For the young systems engineer there is no more rewarding 
work. You associate with the top men in your field. You 
work in an atmosphere that allows you to extend your 
capabilities professionally and academically.
At MITRE, men trained in single disciplines are encour
aged to grow beyond their original fields of interest. Systems 
designers learn to work from an increasingly broad base.
You may work in such diverse areas as information 
theory, computer design, display techniques, propagation, 
or human engineering. You may analyze. You may syn
thesize. You may deal with systems or individual compo
nents. At the highest levels, you may have to consider 
political, economic and social factors ... as well as the 
available and predictable technology.
Requirements, B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in these disciplines  
electronics, physics, and mathematics. MITRE is located in 
pleasant, suburban Boston. If an interview will be incon
venient, inquiries may be directed in confidence to Vice 
President  Technical Operations, The MITRE Corpora
tion, Box 208, Dept. CT3, Bedford, Mass.
MITRE, an independent nonprofit corporation, working 
with  not in competition with  industry, serves as tech
nical advisor to the Air Force Electronic Systems Division, 
and is chartered to work for such other Government 
agencies as the Federal Aviation Agency.
ARRANGE FOR AN INTERVIEW 
THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
L U eMITRE
V
CORPORATION
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Mareh , 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Pa* ?
Many Famous Names Appear At 
Daytonas Spring Folk Festival
A Spring Folk Festival with some of the top names in 
Kfcolk singing is set for some 50,000 college students who are 
expected at Daytona Beach, Florida, during the Spring vaca- I tion period.
Plans now call for the appearance of The Brothers Four, 
^ Peter, Paul and Mary, the Huntsmen and the Folksters, all 
well known folk singing groups.
Also roaming the Worlds 
Most Famous Beach and through 
.Daytona Beachs three coffee 
houses will be Rev. Malcolm 
Boyd, Episcopal Chaplain to 
Wayne University, Detroit, who 
has become nationally known as 
the espresso priest, because of 
his liking to meet and talk with 
college students.
Also, Ed Beck, former allAmerica basketball player at Uni
versity of Kentucky, will head a 
group of athletes who will come 
^ere April 9-12 to be with the 
students on the beach and in the 
coffee houses. With Beck will be 
Bob Pettit, St. Louis Hawks pro
fessional basketball player, and 
at least 10 outstanding football 
players: Buddy Dial, Pittsburgh 
Steelers; L. G. Dupre and Bill 
Krisher, Dallas Texans; Raymond 
Berry and Don Shinnick, Balti
more Colts; Billy Wade, Chicago 
jBears; Phil King, New York 
Giants and Billy Teas, formerly 
of Georgia Tech.
There will also be a jazz combo 
of university professors headed by 
Dr. John Parker, former English 
professor at Kentucky Wesleyan 
College, Owensboro, Kentucky, 
now professor at Methodist Col
lege, Fayetteville, North Carolina. 
Jerome Hines, Metropolitan Opera 
bass vocalist, also has been in
cited.
Other talent is being lined up, 
according to Stan Nass, Daytona
Beach City Commissioner, who is 
in charge of the Festival.
In contrast to last years hectic 
preparations, the Folk Festival is 
being planned carefully to avoid 
schedule conflicts, Nass said. 
Theres a minimum of $6,000 in 
the city budget this year to un
derwrite paying the entertainers. 
Other organizations are providing 
money and talent, too,
We expect a good influx of 
students here through most of 
March, with the greatest influx 
April 5 to 15. Semester breaks 
and vacation periods differ from 
school to school and we want to 
have good entertainment here 
whenever the people arrive, Nass 
said.
Rev. Boyd, former student
chaplain at the University of 
Colorado, has become known to 
college students throughout the 
United States. Life Magazine re
cently rated him one of the 100 
most outstanding young men in 
the country. Boyd and Woodie 
King, Jr., a young Detroit Negro 
actor, will stage Boyds prizewinning one-act play, Study in 
Color, in the various coffee 
houses.
Nass said consideration is being 
given to using City Island Ball 
Park as a site for the big folk 
co icerts, charging $1 each for ad
mission.
Last years two concerts, by 
Pete Fountain and by Dave Brubeck, were in Peabody Auditori
um and at higher prices.
Folk singing is this years fad 
in the college set, replacing the 
twist.
Last year some 35,000 students 
conducted what seemed to be one 
big twist session, mostly along 
The Worlds Most Famous 
Beach.
Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
who need some FINANCIAL HELP in order to complete their 
education during this Academic Year and will then commence 
work.
Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC.
A Non-Profit Educational Corp. 610 Endicott Bldg., St. Paul 1, Minn.
PROFESSIONAL SALES 
CAREERS
Leading lo Management Opportunities with
EQUITABLE LIFE 
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
Experience not necessary. Minimum starting 
salary $400 per month plus commissions to qualified 
applicants. Applicants should be married and be
tween 27 and 47 years of age, have a successful 
background and a desire for a better position in life.
Arrange your personal interview with Mr. Jack E. Foust
By Calling 281-2800, Ext. 265
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday thru Friday
Or mail resume to Suite 719 
Attn. Jack E. Foust, 4 Gateway Center, Pgh. 22, Pa.
ME, EE, AE, ENGINEERS
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters. reasonable 
rates. Themes. Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
,yPANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
^tombo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
SENIORS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bids. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
Memorial Hall
nk*te sale* at all National Record 
**** and Homes. $3.50 - 92.50. Ten 
f percent discount at Skib Desk.
Fed up with a pRAfusiAn Af pRAmises?
If the thought has crossed your mind that 
theres too much of a good thing going around 
for engineering students lately, we dont 
blame you. We are making no exaggerated 
promises. In fact, we are looking to you and 
to other engineering students for promise to 
bring to us. Theres a switch!
Historys second most significant Noah defines promise as, "Ground for hope, expecta
tion, or assurance, often specific, of eventual 
success. Since we are dedicated to the propo
sition of complete success in all our endeavors, 
and the less eventual, the betterwe are 
looking for men of promise.
Whats up at Hamilton Standard? In brief, 
a diversification program that includes design 
and development of propulsion controls, life 
support systems, other environmental control 
systems, electron beam, automatic stabiliza
tion systems, propellers, and ground support 
equipment.
A Hamilton Standard college personnel 
representative will be on campus soon. Hell 
be glad to answer your questions, and to take 
your application for a position if you decide 
you like what youve learned about us.
TOE date: March 25,1963
HamiltAn HtandaRd DIVISION OF UNITED^TCRAFT CORPORATION
An E<n*<il Opportunity Employ*
Lenny ,cmEht !nlTltgT . . 
Friday Night 8:30 
Soldiers & Sailors

---------------------------------------------------

Pa* C A CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday. March RN EGRI
Students Eligible For
Best Review Contest
All students currently enrolled 
in Pittsburgh colleges are eligible 
to enter the Best Review Con
test/* sponsored by the StanlevWarner Corporation in connection 
with the award-winning film, 
David and Lisa. The picture 
opens at the Squirrel Hill The
atre on Wednesday, March 6. The 
writer of the best review on this 
film will receive a $25.00 bond 
from Paul M. Heller, producer of 
David and Lisa.' There is no
Tech Flight 
Takes Deposits 
Till March 15
The latest date for receipt of 
deposits from those who wish to 
fly to Europe on the Carnegie 
Tech Charter Flight is March 15. 
By that date a deposit of $50 will 
be required towards the total cost. 
Unfortunately, deposits cannot be 
accepted after that date.
If you wish to join the flight, 
but have not contacted Richard 
Niehaus (682-8548), Harry Norris 
(682-8492), Thomas Steffen (682- 
9079), or William Russell (MA 1- 
0533), you should do so without 
delay. Alternatively, write to Car
negie Tech Charter Flight, Box 
235. C.I.T.
Always remember, if you fly 
with us you save, save, save over 
S200 (i.e. 40% of the regular
fare) and enjoy the same, same, 
same 707 jet comfort and reli
ability.
( limitation as to the number of 
i words. Decision of the judges will 
be final.
All entries should be submitted 
to: Review Contest Editor, Car
negie Tartan, Skibo. Entries must 
be postmarked no later than 
March 30. 1963.
T11112 An W rites 
Mechanics Text
Elementary Structural Mechan
ics, an introduction to the appli
cation of principles of mechanics 
in structural analysis, written by 
Tung Au. associate professor of 
1 civil engineering at Carnegie Tech, 
has just been published by Prentice-Hall International, Fhc.
The book, written as a text for 
an introductory course in struc
tural mechanics, is intended to 
bring unity and depth to basic 
concepts and principles of me
chanics in the analysis of struc
tures.
Professor Au received his B.S. 
degree from St. Johns University 
in China and his M.S., and Ph.D. 
from the University of Michigan. 
He was a structural engineer for 
several consulting firms in De
troit, and joined the faculty at 
the University of Detroit in 1955. 
He came to Carnegie Tech in 1957.
A registered professional en
gineer, Professor Au is the author 
of several papers in structures and 
mechanics.
HOUSE FOR SALE
Charming 6 room Georgian Brick, in secluded wooded 
surroundings, 3 bedrooms, integral garage, patio, easy 
economical living, walk to Tech.
Price - s19,500
Please Call Lynn Howard  683-2766 
Pitt Real Estate  621-5300
JaRketing 
PAsitiAns with PAtential
FOR ENGINEERS...
Ceramic  Chemical  Civil Electrical  Industrial  Mechanical Metallurgical
National Carbon Company, Americas leading manu
facturer of carbon and graphite products, offers posi
tions to qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields 
listed above.
Our products include graphite anodes, electrodes, 
motor and generator brushes, arc carbons and special 
graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide 
variety of industrial applications.
We serve such key industries as aircraft, aluminum, 
automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, nu
clear, steel, transportation, and the electrical manu
facturers.
Positions are available in our Marketing organiza
tion which covers the 48 states from seven key cities.
A National Carbon representative will be on campus:
MARCH 19, 1963
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
Division of Union Carbide Corporation
OT YQUOUC MPPMRLUTSLY YJPUMYYR
Printers Hold 
Conference 
On Campus
Printing executives from 
throughout the United States will 
gather on the Carnegie campus, 
April 25 thru 27, for the annual 
Spring Printing Management 
Alumni Seminar.
The seminar will present an op
portunity for the more than 1000 
printing alumni expected to at
tend to view for the first time the 
new graphic arts facilities at Tech. 
The seminar is also open to in
terested persons in the graphic 
arts industry who are not alumni, 
i Topics scheduled to be discuss! ec* during the three-day meeting 
; include management science, the 
economics of printing, sales man
agement, and scientific and sales 
; promotion for printing firms.
The program will open Thurs
day, with meetings in Porter Hall 
I and the department of graphic 
j arts on the Carnegie Tech cam| pus. All of the meetings schedj uled for Friday will take place in 
Skibo, the campus activities cen
ter. and will be followed by the 
Miller Printing Machinery Com
pany's reception and the annual 
banquet.
YW-YM Install 1963 Officers; 
Attend Training Workshop
New officers of the YMCA and YWCA at Carnegie Tech 
will be installed at a luncheon Saturday, March 9, followed 
by a Training Workshop at Skibo. The following officers
have been elected for the year*  _
1963: YMCA President is David Ty  * 1 O ri 1 au Sigma 
Elects Head
Adams, Vice President for Pro
gram is Robert Lundgren, Vice 
President for Membership is Rob
ert Faud, Secretary is Robert Mer
tens, and Treasurer is WalterThe Iota Chapter of Pi Tau 
Batchelor. YWCA Cabinet offi- I Sima, mechanical engineering 
cers and Committee Chairmen are hnorary fraternity at Carnegie 
as follows- President, Leslie Me- Tech, has announced the election 
Kinley; Vice President for Pro- oncers for 1963.
gram, Elizabeth Spring; Secretary, ! Tke new officers are: President,i xi  T i Frank A. Morrison, Jr.; vice presi-Carole Breuer Treasurer, Joanne \A . A11 -d- . * i dent, Allan R. Bishop; treasurer,
Klemencic; Membership, Verna Franklin R. Borkat: corresponding
Ream and Janet Hanna; Big and secretary, James N. Brecker; reLittle Sister Chairmen, Christie j cording secretary. Dennis A. Gary.
Myers and Roberta Mosko; Spe- [ Recently initiated members of
cial Projects Chairman, Joanne Pi Tau Sigma are: William R.
Duda; Social Service co-chair- Pierce, William B. Gardner, Alan
men, Barabar Coleman and Nanci | L. Thurman, Philip O. Metz,
Tabashneck; representative on Franklin R. Borkat, Robert L,
Student Christian Federation, Kay j Rosenthal, Peter Rzasnicki, RichCassell; members-at-large on cab- ; ard C. Ferguson, William G.
inet. Lois Croco and Virginia Zas- j Becker, Allan R. Bishop, and
tempa. I Willard R. Crout.
THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of 
every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each 
setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance 
beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect
gem of flawless clarity, fine color and 
meticulous modern cut.
Authorized Keepsake Jewelers may be listed in the 
Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from 
many beautiful styles, each with the name "Keepsake' 
in the ring and on the tag.
j HMW LM PUOT YMUR YTGOGYJYTL OTF WYFFSTGJ Please send two new booklets, ' How to Plan Your EngageI ment and Wedding" and "Choosing Your Diamond 
I Rings, both for only 10c. Also send special offer of 
beautiful 44 page Bride s Book.
I
COOPER Ring *500 Wedding Ring 50.00.-RIVIERA Ring |
AH rtnqs avsiUble in yellow or hite gold. Prices  etude Federal Ta. Ringt enlarged to how beauty of detail*. 9Trade Marl reg'stered.
V
Addreu T lr - _
Cihf- - ________ r _ ,
I xetesAKf oiAuono kings, jyhacuse r, n. r.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March C, m3  CARNEGIE TECH  1** G
By John Blue
Sentiment paid off for Coach 
Mel Cratsley last Thursday night 
when he started two senior sub
stitutes in the Case Tech game, 
and they responded by sparking 
the team to a smashing 73-45 vic
tory. Seniors Larry Ritchie and 
Paul Rizzo were inserted in the 
starting lineup for their last Tech 
basketball game, and Ritchie, who 
had been gathering splinters all 
year, came up with a game high 
18 points and led Tech in re- J 
bounding with 10.
Explanation of Ritchies fine 
showing probably lies in the fact 
that for the first time in his Tech 
career, Ritchie was confident that 
he wouldnt be replaced following 
the first error he made.
. . ? Like A Rose
It was obvious after the first 
minutes that anything that Tech 
did would come up smelling like 
a rose. Tech wasnt playing their 
best balC but Case was just plain 
inept. Case took the lead at 2-0 
and again at 3-2, but from then 
on it was all Tech. For one period 
in the second half Case didnt 
score a field goal in 15 minutes.
After wrestling the lead from 
Case at 4-3 on Ritchies tip-in of 
a missed shot, Tech ran out to a
21-11 lead in the first nine min
utes,* *with Ritchie garnering 10 
and Morrison 5.
Tech .then .slacked off and al
lowed the Broncos to make the 
game close at halftime, 29-25.
Seniors Click 
IfCase, looked bad in the first 
half, they were abominable in the 
second. Going with the players 
that had started the game, Sen
iors Laird, Ritchie, and Rizzo, 
junior Andy Neidra and Morrison, 
Tech ran off 13 points in 4 min
utsto take  commanding 42-28 
lead.
Case scored two quick baskets 
on Palagallos long jumpers to 
make the score 47-34, followed by 
another Tech splurge that netted 
Tech 12 consecutive points and a 
59-34 lead. During this time Case 
didnt score a point in 7 minutes.
Pour It On 
The hustling Tartans kept push
ing their advantage and finally 
had the lead at 30 points, 67-37. 
Coach Cratsley cleared his bench 
with two minutes to play, and the 
subs only let the lead fall to 28 
as the final gun went off.
Final record for the Tartans foi 
the 1962-63 season stands at 9-11, 
not counting an exhibition loss to 
the Akron Goodyears of the National Industrial Basketball 
League. The Case Broncos are 7-6 
on their season.
Wait Till . . .
Said a smiling Mel Cratsley 
after the game, I sure wish we 
could patent a finish like this. 
With practically all of his team 
back next year and several good 
prospects in the offing, it just may 
be the year for the patent to come 
through.
Tech 73  Case 45 
Tech
mVh cV fta ft reb pf pts
Laird 9 4 2 2 7 1 10
Neidra .7 4 4 3 8 111
McGeary 8 2 0 0 8 0 4
Borkowski 6 2 2 2 3 0 6
Morrison 16 5 3 3 2 3 13
Cupps 2 2 112 15
Ritchie 10 8 3 2 10 3 18
Rizzo * 6 2 0 0 3 4 4
Thomas 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
Johnson 10 0 0 0 10
Rupnik 2 0 0 0 1 0 0
Newell 1 1 0 0 0 1 2
68 30 15 13 46 15 73
Case
mVh CV fta ft reb pf pts
Palagallo 12 4 0 0 1 2 8
Shepherd 2 0 0 0 110
Sadowski 2 12 110 3
Deveny 12 4 6 5 8 3 13
Bartos 12 2 2 111 3 5
Kovach 2 0 2 0 2 10
Ollar 11 3 5 4 9 0 10
Smith 1110 10 2
Tuttle 2 10 0 10 2
Crossland 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Stephan 0 0 2 2 0 12
55 16 20 13 36 12 45
J.V. Basketball Ends Season 6-5
by Richard Elder
Hampered Ly the lack of Calm 
team play and consistant c'efense, 
the J.V. Basketball Team, 
coached by Mike Theodre, con
cluded its season with a medi
ocre 6-5 record. Despite fine in
dividual performances on occa
sion, the Jayvees were unable to 
organize a solid team offense and 
defense sufficient to compensate 
for their height disadvantages 
and were forced to accept easy 
victories from intermural teams 
to make an even season.
After two pre-season scrim
mages with local teams, the Jay
vees opened their season with a 
disappointing 72-56 loss to Robert 
Morris in a preliminary to the 
varsity-Indiana game. Led by 
Dale Johnson with 14 points and 
John Blue with 13, the team dis
played poor organization on de
fense as five of the secretaries 
scored in double-figures.
In the next two contests, the 
Jayvees combined their talents to 
take a 2-1 record early in the 
season. Led by Blue with 13 and 
Johnson with 10, the Jayvees de
feated the Tech football team 62- 
32, despite occasional gridiron 
tactics displayed by the losers. 
In the second game, however, 1hey were not quite so mis
matched as they barely man
aged to squeeze by the Wash
ington and Jefferson J.V.s 56- 
55 in their only away game. 
Chester Reft with 14 points, and 
Pete Ricardella with 12 com
bined to offset W and Js Masson 
who had 22 points in the victors 
tightest countest of the year.
In the following two contests, 
they were forced to split victories 
as they defeated the G.S.I.A. 
team and lost to the Edinboro 
J.V.s Johnson, with 19. Jon Rupnik, with 16, and Jim Newell, 
with 14, led the victors as they 
ran past their older pleasant op
ponents from G.S.I.A. 70-61. The 
second game was not as pleasant, 
^however, as 23 points by Newell
| was not enough to offset the 65- 
61 advantage Edinboro enjoyed 
at the end.
After a long vacation break, the 
! Jayvees managed another two 
game winning streak as they 
swept by W and J again 48-38 be! fore again defeating the foot
ball team 66-30. After a well-!balanced scoring attack in the 
first contest, Newell, with 15, and 
Reft, with i3, emerged high scorj ers in the second game over the 
! hapless footballers, 
j Two Pitt teams and Robert 
^ Morris combined to provide crowd 
entertainment as they handed the 
home team three straight defeats. 
Tom Roantree, from the Pitt 
J.V.s, with 29 points, and Rup! nik, with 21, shared scoring hon
ors as Pitt defeated Tech J.V.s 
77-66 despite a 36-32 halftime 
lead enjoyed by the home Jay
vees. In the 51-49 defeat by Rob
ert Morris, Johnsos and Reft each 
scored 12 points which, unfor
tunately, could not offset nu
merous errors by the Jayvees. 
Then, not to be outdone by their 
J.V. team, the Pitt Freshmen de
feated the Tech Jayvees 63-44 
in another error-filled contest. 
Johnson, with 13, and Rupnik, 
with 12, were the only bright 
spots in the loss by Tech.
To end the season, the Jay
vees defeated the Grads 75-63 
previous to the Tech-Case game. 
Tom Soffa, with 19, and John
son and Rupnik, with 15 each, 
i led the victors.
63 METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING GRADS
Start at $8,400 with local corporation
No Agency Fee 
Aid for graduate studies on night school plan available.
Call . . . Career Personnel
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh 22
SHOESSHOES
WALLYS
ShE!oT  Ghfrnlb
Women Men
SHOES
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Attempt to block shot toils.
Sf S had it tA dA AveR again, 
wAuld S take ORmy RCMCLCPC?
You bet I would, and Ill tell you why. Army officers live 
better than I expected. Take me. At the Army Signal 
Research Lab in Fort Monmouth, I get a chance to put 
my engineering background to good use. I keep on top 
of new developments. The experience is terrific, and its 
going to pay off whether or not I stay in the Army. From 
Fort Monmouth I can go to a play in New York one 
weekend, and visit Washington the next. On my officers 
salary I can afford it. Of course I have an active social 
life on post, too. Officers club. Parties. Dances. You name 
it. My advice to you is this: if you have only two years 
to go for a commission, get it. Once on active duty, 
youll be mighty glad you did.
Tech Concludes Season With Rout; 
Seniors Spearhead 75*45 Victory
LIEUTENANT JERRY HOLLMAN, PH.D. IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING

---------------------------------------------------

Page O  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 6, 1965
hotel
k WEBSTER HALL
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
__ a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
kotel Welwteto M
44} J Av#ftu PitUburgh 13, to. 
LlpHAd JOyflAwR N-7700
NEW HAVEN SALE
(no alterations)
HWYOLYRH CCCC$8CE5 lA $22C50 j JU /O Aff HP0RL HHSRLH _$4iE5 JA $ EiE5 '
OUTER COATS. . was$35.00NOW$19.90
SKI JACKETS .. . was$18.95NOW$13.88
SLACKS$16.95NOW$11.88
SPORT COATS. . i vas$35.00NOW$23.88
$39.50$27.88
$45.00$31.88
SUITS .............$75.00NOW$58.88
$69.50$53.88
$59.00 $44.88
(Fltr ltuurrstg
3939 Forbes Avenue 683 - 6757
Hours: 9:30 to 5:30  Thursday till 9
Tareytons Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!1
says Lucius (Poppa) Marius, he-man historian and author of Inside Caesar. Homo sapiens today sure appre
ciates fine flavor, quoth Poppa. Nota bene the popularity of Dual Filter Tareyton. Reason: flavor-de gustibus 
you never thought you'd get from any filter cigarette
Dual Filter makes the difference
IONT EfTtHR
ttvdwet 4 \M* dmtliTMn (vnytay - U^IWTareyton
uvee  our muIiiU name */4 T C
Tech Wins 3rd In Championship;
Swimmers Expect Bright Future
by Ken Kantrowitz
The Tartan swimmers closed 
out the 1962-63 season by finish
ing third in the five team, 19th 
annual Penn - Ohio Collegiate 
Swimming Championships at the 
new Slippery Rock natatorium on 
Saturday, March 2, 1963. The
Grove City tankmen completely 
dominated the meet as they cap
tured every first place and four 
second places. Records were 
broken in all but one event as 
the Grovers amassed a total of 
127 points out of a possible to
tal of 136 that could be scored 
by one team. Slippery Rock, the 
hosts, finished a distant second 
with 66 points. They in turn were 
followed by Tech with 36 points 
and Westminister just edged out 
Penn for fourth place 27-26.
The Grovers (Stadler, Griffith, 
Monahan and Epp)* opened the 
meet by setting a new pool and 
Penn-Ohio record in the medley 
relay (4:02.6). Although the Tar
tans (Brunsos, Specht, Burdett 
and Snow) officially were clocked 
in 4:32.0 in this event, Fenn was 
awarded third place with a 4:32.1 
clocking. In the 200 freestyle, 
Tech's Geary Andrews split the 
Grovers bid for a sweep by tak
ing second. Classen set the auto
matic meet record as he edged 
the Tartan ace by 2.9 secosds by 
posting a 2:04.7.
Grovers Davidson set a new 
pool record of 23.6 in the pre
liminaries of the 50 free, but was 
touched out by teammate Cata
lano in the finals of the event. 
The Grovers proceded to continue 
their streak by sweeping the 200 
Individual M e d 1 a y . McGarry 
smashed Maddens old record of 
last year as he churned the dis
tance in 2:15. Techs best was a 
point scoring sixth place finish 
by Lester in 2:33.8. The diving 
was a sore spot for Tech as 
Bennett, who held a strong 
fourth place after the morning 
preliminaries faded to seventh, 
followed by Snow in eighth, in 
the afternoon finals. Neither Tech 
diver scored. Ironically, the two 
Grover divers switched places in 
the mad afternoon scramble as 
Mays and Livermore finished first 
and third, the former setting a 
new Penn-Ohio record of 310.5 i 
points. The Grovers continued 
their onslaught in the 200 But- j 
terfly with another sweep, as  
Monahan set the pool record and 
smashed his own Penn-Ohio rec
ord in 2:24.5. Tech was not far 
behind as Wyman (2:40.6) placed J 
third and Burdett finished fifth ; 
in 2:44.1.
Techs freestyle sprinting weak- ! 
ness again showed up as they 
failed to place in the 100. The j 
Grovers again swept an event as 
McGarry tied the pool and set 
a new Penn-Ohio record in :52.8. j 
Tech didnt enter the 200 back- ; 
stroke as Grove City took first i 
and third. In the 500 freestyle, | 
Andrews finished second to Grove 
Citys Me Cli*tic who set a new 
pool and Penn-Ohio record of 
5:47.5 Andrews smashed his own j 
school mark with a 6:02.0 time. 
Tech continued its best scoring 
spurt of the meet as Len Lester i
I smashed his two year old school 
j mark in the 200 Breast-stroke by 1.6 seconds as he placed second 
to Grove Citys entry, Bill Grif
fith. who set another meet record 
with a good 2:32.4 clocking. Dave 
Specht also placed for Tech as 
he took a fifth place in 2:48.5.
The same oddity happened in 
! the last relay, the 400 free, as 
i happened to Techs entry in the 
first relay. Grove City once again 
set a phenomonal record for the 
meet as it covered the distance 
in 3:31.7 with the team of Cata
lano, Monahan, Davidson and Mc
Garry. Tech (Brunson, French, 
Snow and Andrews) had a better 
official time (3:53.8) than West
minster (3:53.9), yet lost out for 
third place. Andrews brilliant 
finish in this relay was overcome 
by the disputable decision by the 
place judges. He entered the 
water fifteen yards behind West
minsters anchorman and finished 
in a virtual tie.
Bill McGarry was the highpoint man of the meet. The Grove 
City freshman was the only 
double winner of the meet as he 
personally accounted for 17.5 
points. Andrews was the high point 
man for the Tartans with 11.5 
points followed by Lester with 6 
and Wyman with 4. Burdett and 
Specht had 3.5; Snow and Brun- ;
son had 3; and French had 1.5 to 
round out the scoring for Tech.
The outlook for the Tech 
swimming team looks bright for 
next season. The only team mem
ber that will be lost through 
graduation *s captain Tom Brun
son. Tom has been a versatile 
swimmer for Tech the past two 
seasons. Although he started out 
as a breast stroker in his fresh
man year, he was used the last 
two seasons as a sprinter in free
style, a backstroker and an indi
vidual medley man, accumulating 
32.5 points during each season 
and letteiling twice. His value to 
the team was realized by the fact 
that he was used in the maximum 
three event limit per man in most 
of his collegiate meets. Techs 
strength for next season can be 
attributed to the eight returning 
lettermen. The Tartans started 
this season with three lettermen 
and a good crop of eager fresh
men and inexperienced upper
classmen.
Andrews led the team in total 
points with 103. Lester was second 
with 66, followed by Wyman 
(36.25), Burdett (35.75) and 
Brunson (32.5). Specht (24.75), j 
Snow (24), and Bennett (21) were 
the other lettermen. McCloy, j 
Speyer, Bell, Hartlep and Easley | 
saw much action.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 6, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Tage 11
adhsrctmwPDD g g g
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL 
DIVIDENDS <v/
OF
open every Tuesday evening 
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
AlF rankliiiFEDERALSAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION *!
5816 FORBES VE., SQUIRREL HILL
Over 35 Year* of Servie* to the Pittsburgh Community
 SAVE BY MAIL  WE PAY POSTAGE BOTH WAYS  FREE ENVELOPES. TOO.
 SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $10.000 BY AN U. S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY
 GET EXTRA EARNINGSSAVE BY THE TENTHEARN FROM THE FIRST
^ AN EQUAL'OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Mon. & Tues., 
March 11-12
YMU
POT LOKY 
O BSG HLYP 
PUMHYR LM 
YMUR FULURY
Thats when the Linde Company rep
resentative will be on campus. He 
will be interviewing qualified engi
neering students who feel their fu
ture lies in research or applied engi
neering.
The AlWat Laboratories, for ex
ample at Tonawanda (Buffa lo), N.Y., 
Speedway (Indianapolis), Ind., and 
Newark, N.J.provide an unusually 
stimulating environment for the sci
entific-minded to grow and develop. 
The many achievements of AlWat 
people in research and applied engi
neering have borne a rich harvest of 
progress: Over half of AlWatch cur
rent sales volume comes from prod
ucts and facilities that did not even 
exist 15 years ago,
* Plan now to save this date for the 
Shery representative ... and get one 
*fep closer to CA future. Contact 
your engineering placement office for 
*n appoinlment.
LINDE HfET'fc COMPANY 638133
Iwde Company, ellshEr I Unto* Carbide Corixir.no
WHERE 
IN 
THE
WORLD.. . will you go after graduation? ... will you 
find challenging opportunity?...will you be in 10 years? These 
important questions you must answer within the next year. 
Real opportunity is a two-way street, a 50-50 proposition. 
Your professional advancement is based on two interdepend
ent factors: 
First, the growth potential of the firm you joinsecondly, 
your own competence and initiative. 
The following figures show our ability to provide the first 
requirement. You must furnish the second. 
Xerox Corporation has doubled its sales in the past three 
yearsfrom $27 million annually to $60 million, with less than 
1% in military billing  tripled its profitsfrom $1.6 million to 
$5.3 million  increased employment from 1,650 to 4,300, 
branch offices from 17 to 35 ... And plans for the future are 
even more astounding (see Fortune, July, 1962). 
Opportunities exist in the following areas: Research and 
engineering  manufacturing  control  finance  sales. 
Contact your placement office to arrange an interview with 
a Xerox representative, who 
will be on your campus ....
MARCH  XEROX
COR PORATION
Pitt's Fine Shooting 
Defeats Tartans 68-60
by John Blue'
Perhaps the less said about the 
Pitt-Tech basketball game, the 
better. Pitt toyed with Tech for 
40 minutes last Tuesday a week, 
February 26, and emerged the 
victor, 68-60, with little trouble.
Conceded to be one of Techs 
poorest performances of the year 
by both spectators and players, the 
loss wasn't particularly galling 
since the Panthers had a!ready 
accepted an invitation to play in 
the NCAA major college tour^ nament.
Pitts Dave Sauer took game 
scoring honors, followed by team
mate Dave Roman with 14. For 
the Tartans, Joe Laird and Ray 
Morrison had 14 apiece, followed 
by McGeary and Borkowski who 
checked in with 12.
Potent Panthers 
The cross-hollow rivals played 
the opening minutes pretty much 
on even terms. In fact, the score 
^ -w as tied once at 0-0. Then the 
potent Panthers pushed out to a 10 point lead on some fine shoot
ing and sloppy Tech ballhandling. Pitt led at halftime, 32-22.
The lead of 10 points showed 
little chance of diminishing af
ter the break, as the Panthers 
just couldnt help scoring almost 
at will. Only a 10 consecutive 
point barrage by Tech late in the 
second half put the final margin 
at 8 points.
-Wait Til Next Year
Even in darkness there is light. 
So it is that in two years, when 
this seasons tournament-bound 
Pitt juniors, Generalovich, Jinks, 
Roman, et al, have departed the 
scene, Tech's hopes of beating 
Pitt may oe brightened. Pitts 
current crop of sophomores and 
freshmen have so little to crow
i about that "Pitt News Sports 
Editor, Jim OBrien felt called 
on to blast this years freshmen 
and JVs as being the worst crop 
of ballplayers ever to descend on Pitt.
Pitt 68-Tech 60
Tech
Neidra 
Laird 
McGeary 
Morrison 
: Borkowski 
! Cupps 
Ritchie 
Rizzo 
Thomas 
Rupnik
Jinks 
I Sauer 
! Krieger 
! Roman 
Sheiflfield 
Grgurich 
Ruby
Generalovich

---------------------------------------------------

paff ES  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday. March *, 196$
I.M. Basketball Games 
Stretch In Third Week
by Richard Elder
I.M. Basketball entertained the 
crowds with a thirty-eight game 
schedule last week, despite the 
interruption caused by the forced 
surrender of the courts to the 
varsity for the Case game. As 
was true of the first two weeks 
of the season, the third week was 
characterized by victories by the 
top-seeded teams in tight con
tests or in embarrassing one
sided defeats of the weaker mem
bers in the six leagues.
In the Warriors league, the 
Roadrunners and the Trojans W 
maintained their perfect records. 
The Roadrunners trampled the 
Jaweewees 64-10 as a prelude to 
their 57-29 defeat to the Met 
Grads in their second meeting, 
while the Trojans pushed PKT
WOO
Tennis
Fencing,
Begin
The Womens Athletic Associa
tion is planning to have an in
tramural fencing tournament. Any 
woman student on campus who 
enjoys fencing may enter the 
tournament. Entries are due on 
Friday, March 8, at 4:30 p.m. in 
room 1 of the Gymnasium. There 
is a 25 cent entry fee for each 
entrant which will be returned 
to the entrant if she completes 
the tournament without a forfeit.
This year for the first time, the 
fencing intramural program will 
be extended to include fencing 
bouts with Penn State and, if 
possible, the Universitay of Pitts
burgh and Chatham College. Any
one who enters the tournament 
is eligible for this extended fenc
ing program.
A from the ranks of the un
beaten 35-29 before defeataing 
ATO T 66-22 on the strength 
of Finks 20 points. In two other 
contests, the Met Grads forfeited 
to the Dunkers B and TX ran 
past the hapless Met Grads.
Dowson with 22 points and 
Lynch with 18, aided BTP A 
in their 69-2& defeat of the Tro
jans B, but they were unable 
to stop Sigma Nu A as the 
SNs rolled past BTP 42-32. Sig
ma Nu had previously defeated 
the Finks A 56-27 on the
strength of VandeLindes 21 points 
and BTP A lia<3 crushed the 
Ferndocks 68-28 led by Lynch with 
27. BSR finished the week with a 
.500 average with a 37-23 win 
over KS B after a 41-38 loss 
to the Grad Eagles B. The 
Grad Eagles made a sweep of the 
week with a defat of Trojans 
B 50-34.
The Grad Eagles A relied on 
two well-balanced attacks to 
crush PKA 52-21 and the Dunkers A 56-19. SAE A, how
ever, was unable to organize suf
ficient strength as they lost to 
TDP Blue 31-23, and then to 
Finks B 43-33. TDP proceeded 
to trim DU B 43-27, as DU 
was fresh from a 47-14 defeat 
of Dunkers A. In another af
fair, the Trotters forfeited to the 
Dunkers.
In the Royals league, ATO A 
continued to maintain its repu
tation with a 64-27 defeat of 
DTD and a 51-44 defeat of the 
Architects, despite 20 points by 
Tomlinson for the losers. The 
Architects were more fortunate 
in their other games as they 
rolled past BTP B 45-17 and
again relied on 23 points by Ton^) 
linson to defeat the EE Grads, 
45-38. DU A turned in two 
fine games as they defeated the 
Vulcans 47-35, and then defeated 
TDP White 65-28. Paulik scored 
19 for DU in the first contest. In 
another game BTP B suc
cumbed to the Vulcans, 55-24.
We Will interview On . . .
MONDAY, MARCH
 Engineers  ElectricalN
ti
Mechanical  Industrial
For Positions in
HOUYH YTGSTYYRSTG
CUTLER-HAMMER Inc.
kcrtlln OelWgncWhe PhtomhWgonlnT
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
Equal Opportunity Employer
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: TONY DiGIOIA
Tony DiGioia (B.S., 1960), in less than two years, became 
supervisor in one of the Test Centers in the Plant Depart
ment of Pennsylvania Bell. He manages fifteen people 
who are responsible for the installation and repair of 
53,000 telephones in the area.
Tony should handle his present assignment with his 
customary thoroughness, when you consider his first two 
assignments. Shortly after starting work, he proved his
capabilities by organizing a completely new microfilm 
filing system in the Engineering Department. And, later, 
he set up engineering practices covering many phases of 
the engineering operation.
Tony DiGioia and other young engineers like him in 
Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help 
bring the finest communications service in the world to 
the homes and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
The Tenniis Club sponsored by 
the WAA will have ites first meet
ing on Wednesday, March 6, at 
4:30 p.m. in the Womens Gym
nasium. Club manager, Monica 
Gosse, is encouraging anyone who 
plays tennis and is interested in 
increasing their skill at the game 
to join the club. They will prac
tice skills and strategy in the 
Gym until the weather is fa
vorable enough to use the tennis 
courts. A full schedule of matches 
with other colleges in this area 
has already been arranged.
WHATS
NEWIN THE MARCHOLUOTLSP?
Evelyn Waugh reminisces about his 
younger days in "Father and Son
Oscar Handlin: A critical look at neu
tralism, Its development and the disas
trous form it has now taken
Saul Bellow writing on The Writer as 
Moralist"
James R. Killian. Jr.: On the impact 
of federal research spending on private 
industry and on our economy
RNEG
Special Supplement on Children:
Some fascinating views of children by 
Dr. Robert Coles, Jim Brosnan, Walt 
Kelly, Ogden Nash and others.
Every month the 
Atlantic provides a 
platform for many of 
the worlds most ar
ticulate and creative 
men and women. The 
result is always enter
taining and informa
tive,often brilliant, oc
casionally profound. 
More and more, the 
Atlantic is finding its 
way into the hands of 
discerning readers. 
Get your copy today.ON
SALE
TMW
