the Tartan
Volume 67  Number 6Wednesday, October 11,1967
Military Leaders Speak to Veterans of Peace
On October 12, 1967 at 8:00 
pm, Rear Admiral Arnold E. 
True and Brigadier General Wil
liam Wallace Ford will address 
the Veterans for Peace at 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall, Pittsburgh. Both military 
leaders oppose the United States 
involvement in Vietnam. An es
timated 2,500 veterans and 
guests will hear Trues discus
sion of VietnamDead End in 
Asis and Fords speech on The 
Cost of War. The meeting is 
open to the public admission is 
free.
The speakers have added their 
names to the growing list of 
military men who are opposed 
to our commitment is Southeast 
Asia. This is the first public 
meeting of this type sponsored 
by a veterans organization 
here.
The Pittsburgh Chapter of 
Veterans for Peace is one of 
many similar chapters being or
ganized throughout the nation. 
It came into being because of 
latent opposition to the war 
among veterans, which found 
expression in a respectable or
ganization. In speaking to Paul 
Klieindorfer, Commander of the
Pgh. Chapter of Veterans for 
Peace, he made it clear that 
these men are vry aware of the 
effect they have on the public 
and especially on soldiers in 
the field, when they speak out 
against the war in Vietnam.
Admiral True, an Annapolis 
graduate and former staff com
mander-in-chief of the Atlantic 
Fleet, is the winner of the Navy 
Cross, Bronde Star, Distinguish
ed Service Medal, and Purple 
Heart. He has long been inter
ested in international relations 
and has publicy opposed our 
Vitnam involvemet for the past 
three years. One of the Admir
als sons is in the Navy and has 
just completed a Vietnam tour 
of duty.
General Ford graduated from 
West Point in 1920. He parti
cipated in the development of 
the Army Air Corps during the 
Second World War. He has been 
distinguished with the Legion 
of Merit, The Air Medal, Bronze 
Star, and the French Legion 
dHonneur. He has followed U.S. 
foreign policy both as a hniversity professor and as vicepresident of Aeronca Manufact
uring Corporation.
San Francisco Mime Troupe 
To Appear at CMU
The San Francisco Mime 
Troupe, Americas only live ex
ponent of the Columbia dellarte, a 400 year-old theatrical 
tradition, will make its first 
Pittsburgh appearance Sunday 
and Monday, October 29 and 
30, at Carnegie-Mellon Univers
ity. The Mime Troupe will pre
sent its own radical guerilla 
theatre version of Goldonis 16th 
Century farce, LAmant Milltaire (The Military Lover).
Originating on the West 
Coast, the Mime Troupe will be 
making its last U.S. appearance 
before embarking on a Euro
pean tour. The center of violeni 
controversy for many years, 
the Mime Troupe fought num
erous battles with the San Fran
cisco Parks Commission and 
City authorities, (who called 
them, among other things, In
decent, obscene, and offensive.) 
But with the support of the 
leading theatrical personalities 
of the city, and highly favor
able reviews from San Francis
co newspapers, the Mime 
Troupe was able to carry on 
with its policy of anti-establish
ment, radical-guerilla theatre, 
and was able to maintain its 
bawdy, uninhibited style undim 
inished by the censors restric
tions. The Mime Troupe has al
so made several notable film 
appearances, being featured in 
Robert Nelsons O Dem Water
melons, shown here last year.
as well as a number of other 
important underground films.
Performances will be in the 
Skibo Ballroom at CarnegieMellon, Sunday and Monday, 
October 29 and 30, at 8:00 pm. 
Student discount tickets priced 
at $1.50 and $2.00, will be avail
able in advance at the informa
tion desk in Skibo, by mail at 
Box 110, Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity, Pittsburgh 15213, or at 
the door on the evenings of per
formance. Tickets to the general 
public are also available at the 
same locations for $2.50 and 
$3.50. Because of the limited 
seating, and the fact that there 
will be only two performances, 
it is advised that tickets be pur 
chased in advance.
Homecoming Plans
The Homecoming entertain
ment for the entire wekend has 
been announced. The Friday 
night concert will feature Ray 
Charles and his Raeletts. Satur
day afternoon the Victory Dance 
featuring the Ithacas will be 
held at 4:00 in the Skibo Ball
room.
Gary Glenn and the Jeweltones along with Pat Olivers 
Orchestra will be the featured 
entertainers at Saturday eve
nings dance. A showman with
out peer, Gary Glenn has ap
peared at many of the outstand
ing cubs in the country. At 11:00 
pm the group will perform, doin their personal takeoff on the 
James Brown Show. An addition
al feature of the evening will be 
the performance of past num
bers of the Scotch n Soda pro
ductions, in the Snack Bar.
The schedule of the weekend 
follows:
Friday, October 29:
1:00 pmSoroity Event
3:00  IM All-Star Football
Game
8:30  Carnegie Hall, Queen 
Presentation
9-11 pmRay Charles Show
Saturday, October 21:
1:00 pmHomecoming Parade
1:30  Homecoming Game,
C-MU versus Franklin and 
Marshall
4:00-6Victory Dance  Skibo 
with the Ithacassponsored
(Continued on Page 10)
NSF To Award 
Grad Fellowships
The National Research Coun
cil will again appoint a panel of 
outstanding scientists to advise 
the National Science Founda
tions program of graduate and 
regular postdoctoral fellowships. 
Final selection will be made by 
th Foundation, with awards to 
be announced on March 15,1968.
Fellowships will be awarded 
for study in the mathematical, 
physical, medical, bioloical, en
gineering, and social sciences, 
including the history philosophy 
of science. Applications may be 
made by college seniors, grad
uate students working toward a 
degree postdoctoral students, 
and others with equivalent train
ing and experience. All appli
cants must be citizens of the 
United States and will be judged 
solely on the basis of ability.
Applicants for the graduate 
awards will be required to take 
the Graduate Record Examina
tions designed to test scintific 
aptitude and achievement, on 
January 20, 1968, at designated 
centers.
Further information and ap
plication materials may be ob
tained from the Fellowship Of
fice, National Research Council, 
2101 Constitution Avenue, 
N. W., Washington, D. C. 20418.
Free University Courses Geared to Current Issues
by Jennifer Digby
The idea of a Free University 
in Pittsburgh was bom last 
Spring at Mt. Mercy College 
and quickly sprang up as en
thusiastic volunteers from Pitt 
and C-MU offered their services 
as teachers and administrators. 
The Free University a free and 
open exchane if ideas between 
people is not the property of 
any organization. The commit
tee that has worked to give the 
University form and direction, 
has done so out of a genuine 
intrest in an idea, not because 
of institutional obligations.
The Free University offers 
courses in fields of varied as 
City Planning, Contemporary 
Art Trends, and Chinese Philo
sophy and Existentialism. The 
Universitys curiculum is flex
ible if enough students express 
a ninterest in a specific sub
ject, a course can be set up for 
them. Dr. John Townsend, Pitt 
Physics Professor and head of 
the Steering Committee, is inter
ested in new ideas, and in vol
unteers.
The first of a series of Free 
University Forums was held on 
Monday evening, October 2, at
WRCT Oilers 
Free Publicity
Any groups needing publicity 
for an upcoming event or indi
viduals wan tin announcements 
made are invited to use the free 
publicity campus-oriented for
mat of WRCT, Camegie-Mellons Campus Radio Station.
All correspondance concern
ing activties of interest to 
WRCTs listening audience 
should be sent to Director of 
Campus Activities, WRCT, 
Radio, Box 12, Campus Mail or 
left in the WRCT mailbor, Room 
103 Skibo. Copy should be re
ceived a week before air time, 
but last minute copy will be ac
cepted if brought to the WRCT 
studio Room 48, Skibo.
HOMECOMING
Tickets on Sale 
Baker Hall 
10:302:30 Daily
9til Oct. 20
The deadline for the receipt of 
applications for graduate fellow
ships is December 8, 1967, for 
regular postdoctoral fellowships, 
December 11, 1967.
the United Oakland Ministry. 
Phil Burdell, editor of Modera
tor magazine and a member of 
the American Council on Edu
cation, was the guest speaker. 
Mr. Burdell discussed the set-up 
of Pittsburghs Free University, 
and that of similiar institutions 
now in operation throughout 
the United States. (Two future 
forums all center on Hallucino
genic drugs and poetry.)
The Free University embraces 
issues that are current and have 
relevance to the individual and 
his role in modern society. These 
are issues that often do not get 
discussed, even briefly, in to
days classrooms, yet hold a 
vital interest to each student.
In an atmospher that is not 
charged with grade competition, 
dragged down by student apa
thy, nor complicated by depart
mental regulations, students and 
teachers can deal with each 
other and the problem at hand 
much more effectively.
One course that will be of
fered in the Free University is 
a study of the youth of today 
who feel altnated to the United 
States. The seminar will be 
handled by William Delaney, 
Sociology Professor, with the 
assistance of a professional psycharist. Another course, led by 
Ruth Jones, involves Welfare 
Organizing. C-MUs Nancy Van 
Vuuren offers Apartheid, a 
study of South African supression of 11,000,000 non-white citi
zens. These courses and others 
like them deal with the very 
ral problems confronting socie
ty today. There are courses, too, 
in the fine arts, religion and 
philosophy. All are geared to 
that which is vital and of inter
est to those involved. No pre
determined format exists. Each 
course will run according to the 
ideas of its participants.
Many of the Free University 
instructors are college profes
sors, although this is not a 
necessary qualification. Profes
sionals in law, psychiatry, so
ciology, medicine, education, and 
any other fields are welcome. 
Even the local gang leader or 
rackateer could serve as instruc
tor in a possible seminar. It 
has already been done in Phila
delphia. As Mr. Burdell quipped, 
Id even like to see a Bircher 
left taint himself enough to 
get involved in the Free Uni
versity.
By the same standard, any 
individual is encouraged to at
tend Free University classes; 
college students, ghetto-dwellers, 
and houswifes alike. Her is an 
opportunity to become involved 
find relevance in ones part in 
society, discover direction, dis
cuss ones views, and gain in
sight into the cultural, social, 
and political trends that exist 
today. The Free University ful
fills a very urgent need.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 11,1967
Exclusive Engagement!
BotT W. D. FIELDS
BANK NEVER GIVE A SUCKER
DICK AN EVEN BREAK''
VJ
Now!
421-1633561-1066
 THE PITTSBURGH 
W, FOLK MUSIC SOCIETY 
W\& CARNEGIE CEILIDH 
'Ml, CONCERT SERIES
1007-1008
October 28 'Traditional instrumental 6 vocal mu tic from 
WtStv^in'va featuring Frank George, Aunt jenny Wilson 
find RKnell flaharty.
November is Thaditiom! ballads & sonys from 'Entfnnd, 
inland &> Scotland with hiorrnan Kennedy, 'Tra fallen find 
MHfjifi Kerr Peirce.
December is reft Seeder- in concert
FEBRUARY 24 LOCal CrOSpel S-WSt'c
march 16 Pittsburgh folk Music concert featuring 
traditional local musicians.
april 6 An Ereninij vfsongs &>/fortes with frank earner 
+ All conierh in Carnegie Ltihm Hall will be 4z.oo 
'The Veit seeder concert wit! be held in Carnt/jitMM'c Hall 
and reserved seats will be 1.50 &S3.50 
* iSubscnptum tv-fae siy. contffh is bo.00 
subscribers recitvea te.so seat-at the tv If Seeger concert:
IN14, CAANEOIE-MEUON UMIVEKtirV PfTTMUftOK. PNNIYLVANIA, HJ1
Pltas&stMdmt..stries tickets #10.00
avflostd is mytfhedk for_
NW/_ 
Address.
zUy.Sfitti.
AA*k< icfks payable to The Pittsburgh Folklore society 
9least enclose sei f addrt&sed stamped envelope
OOOOOOOOC SEATS SELLING RAPIDLY!
MUSIC HALLTHIS SAT. EVE.8:30
Only Pittsburgh Performance This Season 
All Ntw Flamenco ProgramTitOwWilfe Cados^Montoya
THE CHEAT FLAMENCO GUITARIST *
MUSIC HALL 
SAT., OCT. 218:30
Direct Prow Tokyo The Event el the Age
ARTHUR FIEDLER
Conducting the 100-Member Yomliiri Nippon Orchestra of Japon
with tht brilliant Japan pianist HIRO IMAMURA 
playing tha Chapin Piano Coneorto #1 OFFENBACHS GAITE PARISINNE-8ERNSTEIS WEST SIDE STORY" 
PROKOFIEFFS CLASSICAL SYMPHONY h ROSSINI OVERTURE
Pro^rVstinati MosqueTaes. Eve.Oct. 24
MASSlVl I IA COMPANY OP I IV
with th Montreal Roliet 
Choir and Orchestra In tha 
Pgh. Premiere a# Carl Orff's 
great
CARMINA BURANA
I<^s GicU ids
Ilici 1 lo t iS
Canadiens
Complete full-length belief 
pi the botlot IAYMONDA * SWAN LAKE Pos de Peu
Exclu sivvengam gtgme!uOm E
REY de lo TORRE WftU I TA^lsT*-
Exclu sivvoeciOm gtlme!uOm br The HARIA ALBA Spanish Dance Company
"Extraordinary. Great Dancer"N.Y. Timet"A Truly ftreat >tar"Chicago Tribune
Exclu sivveciOm gtg2e8!tm NSHOSHANA SHOSHAN
Leading soprano of The Israel National Opera slniM Israeli Son* & Pecclol. Schubert, Mfifar*. Torino alecHons
EACH PERFORMANCE
cDguliv FBR UAA YU4hAp62 cph#_p U# cpUFFm
C STmNL RI4G_p FBR pP_ Dxug !Y w 
!HagH 8!n M6 Ds!8g !8v*eJCCCLL BR JCCLww
Performing Artists 
In Fund Raising Fest
The Pittsburgh Performing 
Artist Foundation, the new thea
ter project to be located in the 
Shiloh Theater on Mt. Washing
ton, is preparing the following 
two week fund raising festival 
which will begin October 22 and 
continue through November 5, 
1967:
October 22  Childrens Thea
ter and Dance 2:00 pm.
Snow White and Rose Red 
and a ballet of Peter and The 
Wolf October 238:30 An Eve
ning With Paul Draper
24Pittsburgh Film Makers
25Dance: Modern, Mime and 
Ballet
26To be announced
27  Don Brockett and Com
pany
28The Duquesne Tamburitzans
29  The Pittsburgh Youth 
Symphony
The second week, October 30 
through November 5, in associa
tion with the Mt. Washington 
Merchants Sales Week, will con
sist of a Goode Olde Day Film 
Festival.
October 30  7:00 and 9:00 
pm The Golden Age of Come
dy
November 1  Saps at Sea 
(Laurel and Hardy)
2Charlie Chaplain Festival
3W. C. Fields and Buster
Keaton
4ValentinosThe Eagle
5Tom Mix, Perils of Paulini 
and Others
The two week festival is part 
of the fund raising campaign 
created to stimulate community 
interest and support for the 
Pittsburgh Performing Artist 
Foundation and the Opera Stage 
Theater. For reservations and 
information call 521-8875.
SHADOWS
you know 
this nothing 
that hides 
in churchcorner 
baptismals is 
the same shadow stuff 
of the hills
horizontreed 
twilight 
flat as inktrees 
on ricepaper 
these houses 
against the skys 
6:30 edge 
a bleak negation 
on the lip of night 
but an 
electric coffeepot reality, icy
chromium plated, 
lives under 
those sharp roofs
that I though were 
shadows
This poem was written 
by Ray Kaskey and print
ed in the 1963 issue of 
Patterns. Send your art 
and literary works to Skibo 51 by Dec. 19.
A nthone Review
Once Upon A Mattress
,, by.,
TONY LAWRENCE
Once Upon A Mattress is sort of an unusual show. The music 
by Mary Rodgers and lyrics by Marshall Barer are, in addition to 
being beautiful, quite difficult to perform. The current production 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse has some amusing moments, but for 
the most part gives this often done show just fair exposure.
The story is fairly well known and requires little more than a 
thumbnail sketch in this review. A meek mute king and his loud 
domineering wife have a young prince, who they must begin think
ing about getting a wife for  much to Queen Aggravains dismay. 
Girls come from near and far seeking the young princes hand. The 
queen tests them in a ridiculous way and they, of course all fail. En
ter Winnifred, the Boebegone. She is given a new, uniqque testone 
of sensitivity, and passes. Thrown in to further things along are 
the previously mentioned delightful tunes, some dancing and some 
funny dialogue.
Jacqueline Mathews (Lady Larkin) and Walt Hunter (Sir 
Harry) did well in their assignments and handled the difficult score 
with some ease. David Jarratt made an engratiating minstrel, 
though at times he looked more like a Gleem commercial. His voice 
was fine as was his overall performance. William Malloy, who was 
fantastic in The Fantasticks last season at the Playhouse, is in 
many ways not to be believed. His impish manner and hilarious pantomine brought by far the best moments to the show.
Helen Rauh had the right amount of nag in her somewhat 
husky raspy voice. Her rendition of Sensitivity left much to be de
desired. The song, designed to be sung at a rollicking tempo with 
up and down voic3 glides, was instead slowed to a snails pace and 
barely audible.
Judy Knaiz was very good as Winnifred. She has an especially 
engaging quality onstage. Her timing and handling of songs was 
equally satisfying.
David Varnay did little with the Wizard. The part can be 
extremely funny if realized fully. Though one of his scenes was 
cut, he still might have done a bit more cavorting to contribute 
his bit.
Its rather unfortunate that directors always feel that the 
only criteria whatsoever for casting the part of the Jester, is that 
he must dance like Pavlova. The part, true, requires a certain 
amount of dance but more important is the actors ability to sell 
a song He must have great charm and personality. The dancing 
seems almost secondary. George Bunt, who also did choreography 
chores, played the Jester with seemingly more interest in the 
right pose, the impressive step and personal effect much more than 
simply playing the part and getting on with it. This is not to say 
that Bunt is not an excellent dancer; he is, it is just that often his 
choices appeared wrong. The entire handling of Very Soft Shoes 
could have been better anyway.
Staging and direction by Robert Baker wasnt terribly original, 
but adequate. His use of cheap vulgarity in places, however, was 
distasteful and unnecessary. The largerr ensemble numbers worked 
better than his use of small numbers of people.
Kurt Wilhelm is credited with having designed the production. 
If this includes sets and costumes, they tie for which was shabbier 
and unimaginative. The production will be playing nightly through 
November.
Spring Carnival 68 
Fills Committees
Positions are being filled on 
the 1968 Spring Carnival Com
mittee. Seats on the committee 
include:
Activities Chairmanpresides 
over a subcommittee responsible 
for call day, sorority relays, egg 
toss, plank joust, and sorority 
skits.
Treasurer 
Secretary
Subchairmen for: Sweep
stakes, Midway, Entertainment 
and Publicity.
Letters of application should 
be sent to Spring CarnivaJ, 103 
Skibo. Please indicate past ex
perience and discuss new ideas 
you have for the particular job 
in which you are interested.
The Eyes Have It
BELIEVE IT OR NOT!
TU>IWS> IbiOEfc 
AT TUG 
   <> PAR
AT^ >****
t        
A"PMU OP GLASSES
theW THREE UEMSESl
foWMRO gy NAROMi ltaryLe dsSpskoV
by Greg Carroll
Tartn Vo lauume6
EB# g6_ n_UR
Frame and Lens Replacement 
Prescription Filled 
Contact Lens Center 
STUDENT RATES
Room 505 
Medical Arts Bldg. 
3700 Fifth Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 11, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 3
Mens Dorm Council Unique College Idea
Thru Peace Corps
nPUp GI# #B 6Bh yBG_1
Meeting was called to order at 4:30 by president Alan Witchner. 
VICE PRESIDENTS REPORT:Walt Panko:
There will be a date party in Donner on October 6. The PLANT 
will provide the music.
Equipment:
The aerial for the television in Donner is up, with a rotor at a 
cost of $120.. The color is reported to be great.
BOOTH: Jerry S pi gal:
There will be a homecoming booth for MDC. It will probably 
be set up in front of Donner. Cost is expected to be around $250.
OLD BUSINESS:
One thousand copies of a handout explaining MDC and its 
functions will be printed and distributed in the near future. In
cluded in it will be a movie list, and an IM schedule.
There will be two separate elections, one for Vice President, and 
one for President.
A report was presented in favor of purchasing a sound system 
for Donner by Dave Chou. It was suggested to purchase either two 
Ico 50 watt amps or two Heathkit 70 amps, one changer, and one 
sony 250A deck. Cost would be about $550. The secretary was in
structed to write to Allied Radio and Heathkit concerning passible 
discounts.
Fifty dollars was alloted to begin research on a new buggy.
Two hundred and fifty dollars was alloted to build the Home
coming booth.
The old, unusable color tv from Donner was given to Dave 
Chou.
The counselors on duty in Donner are to be instructed to turn 
on the table lights in the front lounge and to open the three front 
doors.
Adjourned at 5:28.
By Jo Spigal
Secretary, MDC.
Student Congress Notes
The meeting was called to order at 4:40 by Vice President 
Tom Moore.
Roll was taken.  A quorum was present.
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
1. HomecomingSaturday nights entertainment includes the 
Soul Sounds, and Saturday afternoon the Ithacas will play.
2. Food ServiceComplaints have been made about Skibos 
precooked food, and this problem has been rectified. There is an 
investigation going on concerning whether or not the prices had 
been raised. Permanent utensils are now in use by Morewood caieteria. There are still open positions on this committee.
3. Rules  Still open positions on this committee.
4. General CampusDick Gregory has been put in charge of 
trying to promote better communication between the students and 
the Student Senate by investigating the possibility of a depository 
for suggestions and questionaires installed on the ground floors of 
each of the dorms. If you have any particular grievances concern
ing a campus situation, or can think of anything needing improve
ment, and feel creative, contact Bruce Chamberlain (681-0347).
5. UnionLounge spaces for the Highlander Room in Skibo 
are being considered. Also, a new wing for Skibo is in the planning 
stage. There will be a polling oi students opinion this Thursday 
and Friday.
6. PublicityIn the midst of a program to get more complete 
coverage of the Student Senates business.
OLD BUSINESS: 
1. Jeanne Winnans, under the direction of Publicity Com
mittee, is working on a polling for the Commencement speaker.
2. A motion was passed to change all of the official Student 
Senate documents headings from Carnegie Institute of Technology 
to Carnegie-Mellon University.
3. Rules Committee should draft a motion to fill the vacancy 
in the Senate by the next meeting.
NEW BUSINESS:
1. Complaints were voiced concerning the lack of coverage of 
major school events in the Tartan, i.e. there has not been a good 
deal of publicity about Homecoming in the past issues.
2. A motion was passed that the Student Senate send a 
resolution to the editor of the Tartan asking for a more extensive 
coverage of Homecoming to publicize the event.. An amendment 
to this motion was passed that this suggestion be sent personally 
by the Publicity Chairman.
3. Tim Evans was appointed Parliamentarian.
The meeting was adjourned at 5:35.
Respect fully submitted,
Susie Plaks, Secretary
The Peace Corps and the State 
University College at arrange
ments to attend and expand the 
unique Peace Corps/College De
gree training project launched 
in the summer of 1967 because 
of the highly favorable reac
tion to this pioneer venture. It 
is the first program to make 
Peace Corps training and ser
vice a nintegral part of curricu
la leadin to Bachelors and Mas
ters degrees.
Candidates will be selected 
from the rank of students in 
good standing at an accredited 
college who are completing their 
sophomore or junior year by 
June 1968. Those selected will 
be able to earn an A.B. or B.S. 
deree and be eligible for a Peace 
Corps assignment in one aca 
demic year flanked by two sum
mers of fully subsidized and 
integrated academic courses and 
Peace Corps training. They will 
be expected to major in mathe
matics or the sciences; those 
who have completed their jun
ior year prior to entrance into 
the program will have the op
portunity for a double-major.
At the end of the second sum
mer armed with the degree, a 
teaching license, in-depth cross 
cultural preparation and fluen
cy in Spanish, the graduates as 
Peace Corps volunteers will 
be off on their Latin American 
assignment. As members of the 
staffs of teacher training insti
tutions they will be important 
participating in the educational 
development efforts of their 
host countries. During their two 
year sojourn they will have the 
opportunity to earn up to 12 
semester hours graduate credit.
Peace Corps and College offi
cials pointed out the several fea
tures which make this joint pro
gram unique including: aca
demic credit for Peace Corps 
training, two fully subsidized 
summer sessions totallin 30 se
mester credit hours, in-depth 
Peace Corps training synchron
ized with the liberal arts and 
specialized professional prepara
tion individualized program
ming, opportunity for double 
majors and s-uprevised overseas 
graduate work.
A Phi 0 Polls CMU 
for Grad. Speaker
The Administratin has asked 
the Student Congress to run 
a poll of the student body in 
hopes of eliciting suggestions 
for the 1968 Commencement 
speaker. Alpha Phi Omea has 
undertaken their task of polling 
th C-MU students for preferred 
speakers at the same time as 
the Homcoming Queen Election. 
A Phi O members will be super
vising these election booths 
scattered around the campus on 
October 16th and 17th.
MONZA
PIPE TOBACCO
Whatever kind you smoke, 
you owe it to yourself to 
try MONZA Pipe Tobacco.
Your favorite pipe will give 
you more pleasure when 
you choose this imported 
blend of the world's fine 
tobaccos.move up to
THE IMPORTED PIPE TOBACCO ONLY 301 A POUCH
For a COMPLIMENTARY pouch of MONZA PIPE TOBACCO, 
send 10* to cover postage and handling with this 
coupon to: ROMICKS INTERNATIONAL, INC.
P.O. BOX 3033, DEPT.
NO. HOLLYWOOD, CALIF. 91606
(Please Print)
Name
Street
State
MONZA
City
Zip
B OP_ HB6UA cPUG_o_UR_ uByoU6 oR__p 
PETER BROOK S MOTION PICTURE VERSION 
OF THE ORIGINAL BROADWAY STAGE PRODUCTION
M PmCUWHAHb Ticik
mxmm tfmd-toui/WiKH I 
a: Hwmb s/m mm 
f wwm ifcmm . v
uttm eTt biktcrisH # m MfymbtOJhp
*PETER WEISS
SliiuWcV
l WALNUT STREET MU. 2 -1901 
A story of the new-beat bold-tempo mods and minis... 
and a teacher who was strong and hip enough to make them 
cool it and call him "Sir" I
COLUMBIA PICTURESSIDNEY POITIER
JAMES CLAVELL S 
PRODUCTION OF
A9VTO SIR, WITH LOVETECHNICOLOR*
13th WEEK
SPECIAL STUDENT MATINEE
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21 I
LIVE ON STAGE AT 1:30 p.m.
iD64P_#_AI4 YUPIB
Paraphernalia
114 MEYRAN AVE.-OAKLAND 
where the fashions are 
unabashedly different.
gcO DluOxHg !Y Osg *giH
OOUIMMA MCiTHKs KHK|) /JNNKMANNS.
AMANFO: ALL SEASON!
Kro ,b, ,0., by |{( fflKRT W M J  TECHNICOLOR*  
Student Admission$1.50
RESERVED SEATS AVAILAMf 
E!n AT tOX-OfFtCE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 11,1967
EDITORIAL
StrikeYoure Out!
America is a violent country, commented Dick Gregory in an appearance on the Carnegie-Mellon campus on September 27. There is no better example of violence in the United States than the current steel haulers strike.
For the past seven weeks the men responsible for hauling steel from mills to purchasers have been on strike in an attempt to raise their present wage level. Truckers participating in the strike are both union and non-union members. Some unaffiliated truckers feel that a contract can be negotiated for if they become members of the Teamsters Union. Other truckers feel that by bonding together, but not necessarily under the jurisdiction of the union, they will accomplish their aim to raise wages. A third group of truckers feel that violence is their only means to achieving their end. It is with those men who have chosen violence as a solution to the strike that we will deal.
Within the borders of the Middle and Eastern U. S. during the past seven weeks, men armed with rifles, pistols, shotguns, and rocks have taken the law into their own hands. The proportions of the strike have reached a point at which pot shots were taken at a truck delivering cat food in Ohio, a strike leader exhorted his followers to halt all highway traffic in Gary, Ind., except wheelbarrows and bicycles," and a trucker hauling soap, not steel, was killed in Flint, Mich., by a rock thrown by a steel-hauling striker.
State and federal officials have neglected the violence which has errupted during the seven weeks of the steel haulers strike. Federal authorities in a statement to the press commented that this is a labor-management dispute. We do not feel we should get involved. David Haugh, spokesman for the Pennsylvania Steel Haulers Protest Committee, stated that, The state officials are saying they want to meet with us, but nobody has gotten in touch with us. It is evident from the aforementioned incidents that the Federal Government has taken an unrealistic view of the situation; the state has failed to secure protection for its citizens, which is its duty, and action and/or legislation is essential now.
Individuals have been forced off highways in steel- hauling areas because of the violence. State and county police have forfeited leaves, have been assigned to convoy duty, and an insufficient law enforcement force has been left to patrol highways. In the case of county police, five
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BYNational Educational Advertising Services
A DIVISION OF 
It BADER'S DIGEST SAi.CS * SERVICES, INC.
360 Lexington Av., New York, N.V. 10017
squad cars and numerous troopers have been hired by steel officials to protect plant entrances and operations. Consequently, the county sheriffs office, which has a force of 100 men, has been left without a sufficient number of men to carry out its duties. Each citizen, therefore, is denied his right of protection guaranteed by state and federal governments.
Economic consequences of the steel haulers strike further affect the public. Should the strike continue, companies such as the auto industry will be forced to close plants and lay off workers. For instance, in the case of the Ford Motor Company, which deals with over 20,000 firms, and170,000 of its own employees, a work stoppage would cause a loss of wages of over six million dollars a day, and a loss of revenue to our enonomy of potentially eight billion dollars. The effects of Fords drop-out from production would range over 25 states. If the Ford example is compounded by losses in other automobile corporations and steel using industries, then the nations economy is sunk.
Because the steel haulers strike is impinging upon the civil liberties and economic welfare of the citizens of possibly all of the states of these United States, we feel that the following action must be taken now: (1) In any area which there has been violence connected with the strike necessitating extensive police coverage, state national guard units should be called up, thus freeing the police for regular duties. (2) Components of the national guard which are members of the select reserve force should be federalized in order to protect the rights of citizens in inter-state commerce and travel. (3) A board should be appointed by the states concerned in the strike and by the federal government to submit the issue to binding arbitration. In addition, the committee would be concerned with protecting civil liberties of the citizens of their states and surrounding states. (4) Legislation should be proposed, passed, and put into effect at the state level prohibiting violence on state owned property, violence directed against vehicles within the state engaged in inter-state commerce, and prohibiting strikes in which the civil liberties of persons not connected with the strike are impinged upon. (5) Gun controls laws should be reconsidered. We agree that a man is entitled to own a weapon for his own protection. However, when it becomes evident that said weapon is being used to violate the rights of others, no matter what the cause, then his weapon should be confiscated. Thus, a gun control law dealing specifically with strikes would be effective.
We hope that the strike will be settled equitably, but as it now stands this aspiration is not possible. Until strikers are willing to comply with rights granted to all citizens of the United States, they should be dealt with as criminals and not as persons striking for a worthy cause.
L. W., E. W. S., L. V. S,
Student Opinion Needed
by DALE PESCHEL 
President, Student Government
After much loud criticism by students about the inadaquacy of 
Skibo as a student union, the administration is proceeding with 
preliminary plans for improvement. Preliminary plans includes 
gathering ?. sampling of student opinion, and consideration of pro
posals and plans by student-faculty-administration committees (like 
Dean Swanks Undergraduate Advisory Committee and Student 
Governments Union Committee). Unfortunately, the preliminary 
plans are incomplete because not enough student opinion has been 
sampled. The Union Committe set up tables in Skibo last week 
where students could have answered a questionaire explaining their 
preferences in a new Skibo wing. Participation was poor: Only 
about 400 students responded to the opportunity. This is not rep
resentative of a student body of 3500. Your opinions are needed 
because the new wing should be suited to the recreational, social, 
and intellectual needs of as many students as is possible. The way 
to get whait you want is to speak out for it. Why not express your 
opinions? Jean Winans as chairman of the Union committee will 
be glad to hear anyones suggestions and ideas (She will be at the 
Student Senate meeting on 14 October).
Anther question that requires opinion feedback is that of the 
library hours. Now, books cannot be checked out after 8:45 Sunday 
through Thursday, the library closes at 8 PM on Friday and 5:30 on 
Saturday, and does not open until 2 PM on Sunday. Since some 
students find these particular hours inconvenient, perhaps they 
should be changed. If enough students feel thit way, hopefully 
they will express their opinions. Otherwise, their is no reason to 
consider the problem. Speak out!
Briefly, some other S.G.. notes are: Two external committees 
are being filled  the Tech Committee and the Campus Chest 
Committee. The Tech Committee tries to encourage spirit on cam
pus, and the Campus Chest Committee handles all campus charity 
funds. Interested students please contact me, or leave a note in 
the Student Government mailbox, room 103, Skibo. Also, there is an 
Executive Council meeting today at 4:30 in room 33, and a Stu
dent Senate meeting next Tuesday, 14 October, in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo.
the Tartan
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-m-Chief
Executive Editor..........................................................JOHN MERA
Managing Editor....................................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manager.............................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor ...........................................SUZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editor...................................................ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor ........................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ..........................Rich Steffens
Sports Editor ...............................................Jim Janke
Photography Editor ...............................Laura Seidler
Local Advertising Manager...........Caroll Swarmer
National Advertising Manager........Fredda Simon
Layout Editor ......................................Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor ...................Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor ..................................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager...............Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers ..........................Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor .........................................Liz Seley
Free Lecture Series by CMU Profs
Professor Simon
Carnegie - Mellon University 
announces the inauguration of 
a public lecture series relating 
to the general theme of The 
University and Society. The 
fist lecture in the 1967-68 series 
will be held Tuesday, Oct. 17, 
in Skibo Ballroom at 8:30 pm. 
Tickets are free, and all stu
dents are invited.
Professor Herbert A. Simon, 
Richard King Mellon Professor 
of Computer Sciences and Psycohlogy in the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration, 
will speak on Computer Imi
tation of Human Thinking.
A brief reception will follow 
the lecture at which members 
of the audience will have an 
opportunity to speak with Pro
fessor Simon and others of the 
Carnegie-Mellon University fa
culty. The public lecture series 
was initiated to foster a devel
opment of the university spir
it and to establish new chan
nels of communication across 
the campus towards the cultural 
community of the city.
Representatives from the sci
ences, humanities, and social 
studies will serve as guest lec
turers. The various speakers 
will attempt to share with the 
audience some of the excitement 
of their respective disciplines 
and the fascination of the ideas 
which inspire it.
The Public Lectures Commit
tee is composed of deans: Mul
lins, Carlin, and Steinberg, and 
professors: Shoenwald, Bartlett, 
Meltzer, Hazard, Laney, Bea
man, Perlis, Bugliarello, Toor, 
and DeBenedetti.
TIME
The longest word 
in the language?
By letter count, the longest word may be pneumonoultra- m icroscopicsi lico volcanoconiosis, a rare lung disease. You wont find it in Websters New World Dictionary, College Edition. But you will find more useful information about words than in any other desk dictionary.Take the word time. In addition to its derivation and an illustration showing U.S. time zones, youll find 48 clear definitions of the different meanings of time and 27 idiomatic uses, such as time of ones life. In sum, everything you want to know about time.This dictionary is approved and used by more than 1000 colleges and universities. Isnt it time you owned one? Only $5.95 for 1760 pages; gtj
thumb-indexed.
At Your Bookstore
THE WORLD PUBLISHING CO.
Cleveland and New York

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 11, 1967 - THE TARTAN  Page 5
I
f
I
Make An Appointment 
With Opportunity
A representative from Ashland Oil 
will be on campus for interviews on
Tuesday, October 24
Ashland
THE JOB YOUVE 
BEEN WISHINQ FOR 
MAY BE WAITING 
FOR YOU HOWAT ASHLAND OIL
Ashland Oil is a rapidly growing 
petroleum company with expanding 
interests in petrochemicals, plas
tics, road paving, carbon black and 
synthetic rubber manufacturing and 
many other fields. It has truly chal
lenging jobs available in many areas 
for engineers, marketing personnel, 
accountants, data processing spe
cialists and graduates in other 
fields. Our representative will be 
glad to give you specific informa
tion on current openings.
ASHLAND OIL & REFINING COMPANY Ashland, Kentucky 41101

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 4, 1967
l8 i8a 
iH!x8a
THEATER
The PlayhouseHamlet Stree Theater, Once Upon a Mattress 
by Mary Rodgers, Marshall Barer, Dean Fuller, and Jay Thompson. 
Directed by Robert Baker. Every night until Nov. 25. Craft Ave
nue Theater, The Tavern by George M. Cohan. Performance every 
night, starting Sept. 30 until Oct. 14.
National Theater of the Deaf presents a spectacular evening 
four plays: The Man with the Heart in the Highland, by William 
Saroyan, directed by Gene Lasko; The Tale of Kasane, by Tsuruya, 
directed by Yoshio Aoyama; Tyger Tyger and Other Burnings, 
directed by John Hirsch, adaptations by Eric Malzkuhn; and Gianni 
Schicci, adapted by Robert F. Panara and Eric Malzkuhn, directed 
by Joe Layton.
Mount Mercy Auditorium, Mount Mercy College; Oct. 5-6, 8:30 
pm. Tickets $4, students $1.50.
The University of Pittsburgh Theatre presents Harold Pinters 
The Caretaker; Cathedral of Learning, 10th floor; on October 6 at 
7:30 and 10 pm.
International Poetry ForumRobert Lowell; Oct. 5, 8:30 pm; 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Carnegie Museum. Student tickets $1.50.
Music Guild of Pittsburgh presents the American Ballet The
ater on Oct. 10 at 8:30 pm, Syria Mosque. Tickets $5.95, $4.95, $3.95, 
and 2.95 at National Record Marts, all Pittsburgh National Banks, 
Gimbels, Hornes, Kaufmanns, and Pitt Student Union .
MUSIC
Pittsburgh SymphonyKyung-Wha-Chung, violin soloist in 
Bruchs Scottish Fantasy for Violin and Orchestra. Program also 
includes Mozarts Symphony No. 34 in C Major and Tschaikowskys Symphony No. 6 in B Minor, Opus 74 (Pathetique). William 
Steinberg conducting; Syria Mosque; Friday at 8:40 pm and Sun
day at 3:15 pm.
Van Cliburn in an all Chopin Concert Saturday night, Oct. 7, 
at 8:30 pm; Syria Mosque. All reserved seats: $3.30, $4.40, $5.50, 
and $6.60 at Kaufmanns, Gimbels, Homes, and Pitt.
FILMS AND TV
Boom at the TopDuquesne Room, Duquesne University; Fri
day, October 6, at 7 and 9 pm.
Lincoln Center/Stage FiveFive Ballets of the Five Senses. 
An original choreographic work by John Butler. WQED, Chan
nel 13; October 6 10:30 pm and October 8 1:30 pm.
The Crumbling Wall will be open Friday 9-1, Saturday 9-1, 
Sunday 9-12, October 6 and 7; Film Festival: The Magician, Its 
About This Carpenter, Riniceros, Parable, and Pacific 231. Admis
sion free.
Whats Doing on Campus
Y THURSDAY LUNCHEON FORM
Science Teaching in the Public SchoolsDr. Max Braverman, radiation biologist, Allegheny General Hospital; October 5. 
Program meets at noon adjourns by 12:30 pm. 
CARNEGIE-MELLON DAMES
The annual tea will be held on Sunday, Oct. 8, in the High
lander Room, Skibo. All wives of students are invited.
FILM ARTS
A Bill of Divorcement; Thursday, Oct. 5; Porter Hall 100; 
4:30, 7 and 9 pm; members only.
Y FBIDAY CINE SEBIES
Blood of a Poet; Friday, Oct. 6; Porter Hall 10; 7:30 and 10 
pm; Y members 25c, others 75c.
DORM MOVIE
Night at the OperaSkibo Ballroom; Saturday, Oct. 7.
ACS
The C-MU Student Affiliate Chapter of the American Chemi
cal Society is hold its first meeting of the school year on Tuesday, 
Oct. 10, at 8:30 pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium. A film on 
the evolution of Mellon Institute will be shown following which 
refreshments will be served. All those interested in our new 
University are invited to attend.
AICE
Dr. Max Peters, vice-president of the 30,000 member Ameri
can Institute of Chemical Engineers, will be in Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, Oct. 4, to aadress a meeting of the Pittsburgh Sec
tion of the AICE. He will discuss the Role of Nitrogen Oxides in 
Air Pollution. The meeting will be held in Skibo at 8 pm.
ASME
Meeting of the American Society of Mechnical Engineers on 
Tuesday, Oct. 10, 3:30-5:30 pm in HH 11. Drs. Osterle and Swedlow will speak about graduate school and will answer questions. 
A PHI O
Tech Record Dance on Friday, Oct. 6, in the Ballroom. First 
25 couples who show up will be admitted free.
HILLEL
Coffee Hour: Monday, Oct. 9, in room 40 Skibo at 4:30 pm. 
TUESDAY ASSEMBLY
Why I Believe Flying Saucers are Real, Stan Friedman; 
Skibo Ballroom, 11:30 am, October 5.
GREATER PITTSBURGH SOCIETY 
FOR THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE
The Scientist in Jacksonian America: The Emergence of the 
Professional, Professor William Stanton, History Department, 
University of Pittsburgh; Hunt Library; 8 pm, October 3.
HUNT LIBRARY
Bookbindings from the 15th century to the present time; Rare 
Book Room, fourth floor, Hunt Library; through October 31. 
SPORTS
Football home game against Allegheny on Saturday, Oct. 7. 
Game time 1 pm.
Cross-country against Western Reserve; Schenley Park 
Course; 3:30 pm, October 4.
ETS Announces Grad Exam Dates
The National Program for 
Graduate School Selection of the 
Graduate Record Examinations 
will begin its 1967-68 testing 
program at examination centers 
throughout the United States 
and certain foreign countries on 
October 28, 1967. Five additional 
administrations which will com
plete its academic testing sched
ule in 1968 are: Dec. 9, Jan. 20, 
Feb. 24, April 27, and July 13.
The Graduate Record Ex
aminations are required or 
recommended for admission to 
many American and Canadian 
graduate schools and for grad
uate fellowship awards. Can
didates are urged to determine 
from their preferred graduate 
schools or fellowship commit
tees which of the examinations 
are required or recommended 
and when they should be 
taken.
The Graduate Record Exam
inations offered in thisi nation
wide program include an Apti
tude Test of general scholastic 
ability and Advanced Tests of 
achievement in 21 major fields 
of study. Candidates are permit
ted to take the Aptitude Test 
and one Advanced on any of 
the six nationwide testing dates.
A Bulletin of Information 
with legislation form providing 
details of registration and test 
administration may be obtained 
from college advisors or direct
ly from Educational Testing 
Service (Box 955, Princeton, 
New Jersey 08540, 990 Grove 
Street, Evanston, Illinois 60201, 
or 1947 Center Street, Berkeley, 
California 94704). A completed 
test registration form must 
reach the appropriate ETS of
fice before the deadline date 
listed in the Bulletin of Infor
mation.
The Eyes Have It
by Greg Carroll
an dIN INTHdI 
ENndNA
LIaEI NCN aR ad 
dITd IWAdRY
LITd SU CUW IT?N 
an dIN LTC UD T 
OTnVN EWANY

RUTF ad an IUd 
LTdNA dIaR 
N?NnanVM
EXPERIMENTAL FILM GROUPWednesday, October 11,
. . presents . .at 2 4-6-8-10 p.m.usiHvlg usiDvl8SKIBO BallroomICarnegie-Mellon Univ.
E!agH8 OlEgcStudents and Faculty75tf
SUNBEAM
AMTIGER
ANDALPINE
ROADSTERS
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized chrvbler Dealer -F e ee
S&S JEEP
DlOOcxHWs
SUNBEAMSIMCA DEALER 
"w"LLL
213 PENN AVE.
WplK!N5PL*!G
STAMP IT!
IT'S THE RAGE 
ANVWHTA 
OUSNH
ANY $33 LINE TEXT (S
The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. Vi" I 2".
Send check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No 
postage or handling: charges. Add 
sales tax.
Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed 
THE MOPP CO.
P. 0. Box 18623 Lenox Square Station 
ATLANTA, GA., 30326
TIME
The longest word 
in the language?
By letter count, the longest word may be pneumonoultra- microscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis, a rare lung disease. You wont find it in Websters New World Dictionary, College Edition. But you will find more useful information about words than in any other desk dictionary.Take the word time. In addition to its derivation and an illustration showing U.S. time zones, youll find 48 clear definitions of the different meanings of time and 27 idiomatic uses, such as time of ones life. In sum, everything you want to know about time.This dictionary is approved and used by more than 1000 colleges and universities. Isnt it time you owned one? Only $5.95 for 1760 pages; gg
thumb-indexed.
At Your Bookstore
THE WORLD PUBLISHING CO.
Cleveland and New York
Between Classes or at Study Break.-scornrsOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
391t FORBES AVENUE
m m m U# m m m
ROUTE 6, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVBIUE
Original
HOUSE
off
BEEF
PRIME ROAST BEEF
Served the Way You Like It
--PIZZA -
SERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMSI 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
i88!x8ugEg8O
FRBy
Osg n!!avin8 DsiHEiu*
RGK.t oree weKit 
lK. .tercrKsi fKerguh 
Ky Ltgytiguh, UwGKbt. 4, 1967 
uG 6:00 pM mM
Store will reopen on 
Thursday, October 5, 1967 at 6:00 p.m.
Ed Garber, Owner

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 4, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 7
K OiHOi8
:
I 
:  : 
:
. anke, Editor 
r. swoboda. Assoc. Ed.
Hubka Leads Tartans 
28-14 Over Oberlin
A strong first half offense led 
the Tartans to their first win 
of the season 28-14 at Oberlin 
last Saturday, to set their record 
thus far 1-1. Tom Hubka's pass
ing gave CMU a 21-0 lead at the 
half from which the Oberlin 
Yoemen were unable to recover 
^despite a strong showing in the 
second half against the inconsistant Tartan defences.
Following the kick-off Oberlin 
drove to the Tartan 23, but on 
third down CMU halfback Ken 
Batorski intercepted a pass on 
the goal line and returned the 
ball to the 11. On second down 
Hubka connected with Larry 
^ Getto who gained yardage to 
the Carnegie 45. A third down 
pass to Bugel put CMU in scor
ing position on the Oberlin 35, 
and on the following play Joe 
Chernay outran the Oberlin sec
ondary to receive a touchdown 
pass from Hubka. Dave Thomas 
extra point kick was success
ful and the Tartans were off to 
an early lead.
Oberlin was forced to punt 
on their first series of downs 
after the kick-off and CamegieMellon took over on their own 
43. Five plays later Rich Bell 
caught a Hubka pass on the 
Oberlin 10 and ran in for the 
T.D. Again the kick by Thomas 
was good.
^ In the second quarter Thomas 
returned an Obelin punt to the 
Yoeman 42; however a holding 
penaly on CMU moved the ball 
back to the Tartan 42. On sec
ond down Chernay ran on a re
verse around end to the Obelin 
42, and two plays later Hubka 
hit Bell with a 39 yard pass for 
another touchdown.
CMU came very close to scor
ing once more late in the half 
when Thomas intercepted a pass 
from Oberlin quarterback Duffey on the Oberlin 40. A series 
of short passes moved the Tar
tans to the five. On fourth 
down, with time running out, 
Tom Hubka was put under a 
heavy rush and was forced to 
throw the ball away.
Toward the end of the quar
ter, Yoeman halfgack Dave Wea
ver intercepted a Hubka pass 
on the Carnegie 34 and ran to
the one. On the next play, full
back Dave Corwin ran off tac
kle for the score; the attempt
ed kick was blocked, and the 
score stood at 21-6.
With a minute and half left in 
the quarter, Chernay picked off 
a Duffey pass at mid-field and 
carried to the Oberlin 24. Hubka 
completed to Bell on the four 
and on the next down Larry 
Getto carreid the ball over the 
touchdown. Thomas added the 
extra point.
Following the kickoff Ober
lin marched 68 yards in seven 
plays primarily with passes 
from Duffey to end Chris Smith, 
who ran in the final pass for 
the score. Corwin carried for the 
two point conversion.
CMUs pre forma nee last Sat
urday can be best described as 
inconsistant. In the first half 
both offense and defense looked 
much better than they had the 
previous week at Wooster. Tom 
Hubka did an excellent job pass
ing and his receivers were us
ually able to elude the defenses. 
His line gave him good pro
tection. On defense, the Tartans 
had little trouble penetrating the 
Oberlin line with Rich Helhowski at end and Gene Giarnelli at 
guard frequently putting a lot 
of pressure on Duffey and forc
ing him to make bad passes. On 
a few occasions Gettos blitz 
set back the Yoeman quarter
back.
In the second half the story 
was different. Both the offensive 
and defensive lines were much 
weaker, perhaps because so 
many of the Tartan players 
were going both ways. The 
poorer playing by Carnegie in 
the second half was evidenced 
by its being outscored in the 
third and fourth quarter.
Oberlin end Chris Smith play
ed a fine game, catching eight 
passes for 123 yards. At the 
halfback position Dave Corwin 
and James Fabian turned in 
good performances for the Yoe
men.
Next Saturday CMU plays its 
first home game of the season 
when it meets Allegheny on the 
Tech Field at 1:30.
Harriers Crushed 
By Grove City
The CMU Cross Country team 
lost its first meet 46-16 to Grove 
City last Saturday. It was the 
first time in seven years that 
Grove City has beaten the Tar
tan Harriers and the first time 
in six years that the Tartans 
have been defeated on their 
home course.
The Grove City team was 
lead by freshman Jim Warner 
with its number one man from 
last year Art Ruff, right be
hind. Warners time was 23:34 
and Ruff finished with a 23:35. 
The Wolverine runners took the 
first four places, while CMUs 
Bemie Flynn prevented a total 
Grove City victory by finishing 
fifth with a time of 25:02. Other 
Tartan Harriers who turned in 
good times but who didnt score 
points were Don Baer, 25:24; 
and John Butler, 25:45. WTien 
the dust (mud) had cleared, the 
Tartans had suffered their worst 
defeat in at least five years.
The Grove City team was 
considerably stronger than last 
year through the addition of 
freshmen. For example Grove 
Citys Dave McLead, their fifth 
man last, was ranked tenth this 
year. In short, Grove City sim
ply outclassed a young CMU 
squad.
Wednesday the Harriers take 
on Western Reserve at home 
and hope to get some satisfac
tion in return for the Grove 
Citv loss. The Tartans are count
ing on the return of co-captain 
Dale Peschel, who was unable 
to compete against Grove City 
because of an injured knee.
I.M. REVIEW
PACKERS LEAGUE
GSIA, in a bid to dethrone 
ATO, started the season with a 
46-3 victory over TDP J and 
then defeated the Berets 48-1. 
ATO looked equally impressive 
crushing SAE B 46-6. DU 
edged SAE B 3-1 by scoring 
all their points on first downs, 
then lost to BSR 22-19 when the 
strong pass rush of BSRs de
fense stopped a late DU come 
ba<?k attempt. The Berets, a 
freshman entry, upset BSR 15- 
10 on a clutch 4th quarter TD 
grab.
Standingas of September 30:
Standings:WL
ATO10
GSIA20DU11
BSR11
Berets11TDO J02
SAE B01
REOWN S LEAGUE
PKA, seeded :first intheleague, defeatedDTD 7-2 <on a
fourth period TD. The EJs have
fielded a strong team this year
which beat ATOB 31-9and
PKT Bold 32-6. TDP defeated
DTD 38-21, butlost a tough
game to the Met Knights9-7.
The Met Knights also defeated
PKT Bold 32-6. TDP defeated
fortable margin,20-3.
Standings:WLPKA10EJs20TDP11
Met Knights20
PKT Gold02
DTD02ATO B01
(Continued on Page 8)
18 Wooster
28 Oberlin
Oct. 7Allegheny 
Oct. 14<5 rove City 
Oct. 21F&M 
Oct. 28at Thiel 
Nov. 4at Westminster 
Nov. 11W&J
Intramural Due Dates
Activity Due Daote Min. Max.
Touch FootballTuesday, Sept. 19, 1967............... 7 15
TennisTuesday, Sept. 19............................................4 9
GolfTuesday, Sept. 26................................................4 9
Co-Rec VolleyballTuesday, Oct. 10.8 men 8 women
Water BasketballTuesday, Oct. 10.........................5 10
SoccerTuesday, Oct. 17..............................................7 15
VolleyballTuesday, Oct. 31...................................... 6 15
SquashTuesday, Oct. 31......................................... 3 6
Table Tennis TeamTuesday, Nov. 7.........................4 8
Water PoloTuesday, Nov. 7.................................. 5 10
BowlingTuesday, Nov. 7......................................... 5 10
Three-Man VolleyballTuesday, Dec. 5.....................3 8
BasketballTuesday, Jan. 9, 1968.......................... 6 13
WrestlingTuesday, Feb. 6..................................... Open
HandballTuesday, Feb. 6........................................ 4 9
BridgeTuesday, Feb. 13............................................4 9
TaBIe Tennis SinglesTuesday, Feb. 13................... 1
and Doubles ........................................................................................... 2
Foul ShootingTuesday, Feb. 13............................ 5 10
Co-Rec BadmintonTuesday, Feb. 20......................3 6
Call PoolTuesday, Feb. 20...................................... 3 6
Co-Rec BadmintonTuesday, Feb. 20 .............................................2
SwimmingTuesday, Feb. 27................................... Open
RifleTuesday, March 5..............................................5 10
SoftballTuesday, March 12......................................10 21
Intramural NightFriday, March 15
Team BadmintonTuesday, March 19.....................4 8
TrackTuesday, April 30......................................... Open
Any group may enter a team by filling out the official roster 
sheet and returning it to the Intramural office on or before the 
due date listed above. AM entries must be accompanied by a $2.50 
forfeit fee which will be returned at the end of the sports sched
ule providing the team appeared and was ready for the activity as 
scheduled. All needed equipment will be provided by the Intramur
al Department including rules and regulations governing the activ
ity. Teams may be formed by organizations, classes, floors, com
muter groups, etc.
Copies of the Carnegie-Mellon Intramural Department Constitu
tion may be obtained in Room No. 104 in the Gymnasium.
Anyone wishing to officiate Touch Football, Volleyball, Basket
ball, Soccer, or Softball should contact Mr. Boyer, Intramural di
rector, Gym No. 104.
For further information, contact Mr. Boyer, Intramural direc
tor, or Steve Dudash, president of Intramural Board, Mens Gym 
No. 104, Ext. 412.
Additional copies of this schedule may be obtained in the In
tramural office.
In-depth coverage of 
automotive activities. 
Featuring a different 
college every month.
IN THE 
OCTOBER ISSUE
DO COLLEGES 
DESIGN BETTER 
CARS?"
An on-the-spot Report from M.I.T. 
* * *
OCTOBER ISSUE ON 
SUE NOW! At newsstands 
everywhere
AND EVERY MONTH
Sports Car Graphic keeps you up 
to date on everything in the sports 
car world! ALWAYS FIRST with race 
and rally reports...full color fea
tures., .driver profiles...engine 
modification specifications and per
formance how to's...new car road 
tests... track and street handling 
tips...competition calendars!
SPORTS CAR GRAPHIC IS ALWAYS FIRST!
21
14
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
ORBppB- lhRU4_ iV_46
281-6619 - Phones - 281-9000
VV Artis* International
fa Artistic Hairstyling ExpartRazor Sculpture Cutting
207 Oakland Ave. & And P,ain Cut Below Forbes Ave. Appointment 682-373#

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 11, 1967
Charlie Chaplain in Modem Times Wednesday in Sldbo.
/9
HI
STAMP IT!
IT'S THE RAGE 
ANVWHTA 
OUSNH
ANY $^3
3 LINE TEXT Smt
The finest INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. Vi" t 2".
Send check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No 
postage or handling charges. Add 
sales tax.
Prompt shipment. Satisfaction Guaranteed 
THE MOPP CO.
P. 0. Box 18623 Lenoi Square Station 
ATLANTA. GA., 30326
Stanley
WarnerSTRAND
683-6992
IYNN REDGRAVE
6eo*&\ G'tR!-
[SUGGESTED FOR MATURE AUDIWCSl
cm r7u7N wuHts i
ExcDH!Ygccl!8ivc
A COLUMBIA PICTURES RELEASE 
PANAVISION* TECHNICOLOR*
LEE MARVIN
OPERA TICKETS
Tickets for the first performance of the 1967 opera season 
are now on sale in room 100 College of Fine Arts. Price of student 
tickets $2.00. LocationThursday, October 26Second Balcony 
C Left Row K. Saturday, October 28Second Balcony C Left and 
C Right. Rows K and L. Opera: Lucia di Lammermoor.
HILLELYom Krppur ServicesYM&WHA Auditorium, 315 Bellefield 
Street
Friday October 13Kol Nidre 6:15 pm 
Saturday, October 14services 9 amsundown 
Break-the-Fast meal, Young Adult LoungeYMHA 7:45 pm 
For information call621-8875
Brunch, Sunday, October 15, Faculty Dining Room Skibo 
Bridge classes and tournament on Sunday, October 151-5 pm in 
the Highlander Riom, Skibo.
Israeli Dancing on Sunday, October 15, 8 pm in the Wherrett 
Room Coffee Hour, Monday, October 16, 4:30 pm room 40, Skibo.
YM & WCASkill-classes in bridge and beginning guitar are being offered 
by the Campus YM-YWCA beginning next week.
On Tuesday, Oct. 10, and for six following weeks, Dave Mor
ton will teach beginning level bridge in 55 Skibo from 7:30 to 
9:30. A minimum of 12 people is needed for the course. Actual 
playing will start by the second session.
On Tuesday, Oct. 17 and for five or six additional sessions, 
Dave Shaffer will offer instruction in basic folk guitar. Partici
pants will be expected to have their own guitars by the second 
ssesion.
Sign-ups for the courses are now going on at 57 Skibo and 
will continue until two days before the beginning of each course. 
The charge for each is $2 for Y-members and $4 for others.
STUDENT SENATEThe next session of the Student Senate will meet on Tuesday, 
October 17 in the Wherrett Room Skibo at 4:30 pm 
TECH CHRISTIANTech Christian Fellowship will meet at 7 pm in front of Skibo 
to go bowling. Friday, October 13.
l8 i8a 
iH!x8a
MUSIC
Pittsburgh, Pa, Oct. 2, 1967- 
Blind pianist Nicolas Constantindis will open Carnegie-Mellon 
Universitys 1967-68 concert seasoo on Wednesday, Oct. 11, with 
a program of piano classics.
The concert will begin at 8:30 
pm in Carnegie Lecture Hall, 
Forbes Ave. It is free to the 
public.
Mr. Constantinidis will per 
form:
Partita No. 2 in C minor by 
J. S. Bach
Sonata No. 31 in A Flat Ma
jor, op. 110 by Beethoven
Barcarolle in F# Major, op. 
60 by F. Chopin
Excursions, op. 20 by S 
Barber
Sonata No. 2 in D minor, op. 
14 by S. Prokofiev
Pittsburgh Symphony no per
formances this weekend.
Carlos Montoya, Flamenco 
Guitarist Saturday, October 14, 
8:30 pm Carnegie Music Hall. 
Tickets 3:30, 4:40, 5:50, 6:60 at 
Gimbels, Kaufmans, Homes 
and Pitt.
Pittsburgh Chamber Mus c 
Society  Beaux Arts Quartet 
Monday, October 16 Carnegie 
Music Hall.
THEATER
The Playhouse  Hamlet St. 
Theater  Once Upon a Mat
tress by Mary Rodgers, Mar
shall Barer, Dean Fuller and 
Jay Thompson.
Croft Avenue TheaterThe 
Tavern by George M. CohanStarting October 14  Aftar 
the Fall by Arthur Miller. 
Unlucky Dance at PITT Friday
A dance open to all Pitts
burgh college and university 
students to celebrate Friday the 
13th is slated for the Pitt Union 
Ballroom from 9 pm to midnght this Friday. Admission is 
50c plus an I.D. card.
A local rock group, The So
ciety, will supply music. The 
event is sponosred by the Pitt 
YMCA.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
; FOR AU YOUR%
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORBES AVENUE 
Phone. 683-2181 Student Discount on Most Items
Campus - FavoredW ALLY'S
MEM
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLRSHEIM
WOMENHUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave.U. S. KEDS
(Across from Strand Theater)
Orumblin Wall Coffee Houss 
Robert Sollod on Conscious* 
ness Expansion Friday Octo
ber 13, 9:30.
SPEECHES,
LECTURES
Pittsburgh Free University 
October 11, The Nuremberg 
Trials and Civil Disobedience in 
Time of War, Nicholas Salva
tore of the David Miller Defense 
Committee, NYC.
October 18, The Draft and 
Moral Decay (Evasionism) 
Jim Syphers of the Pittsburgh 
Poverty Program and Bob Mor
gan, Prof. of Psychology C-MU, 
United Oakland Ministry, 5th -ft 
Bellfield Aves. 8 pm.
Y-Thursday Luncheon Forum
 Communicating Science to 
Laymen Dr. Stanley Angrist 
associate professor mechanical 
engineering C-MU Highlander 
room Skibo October 12. Meet at 
Noon  program at 12:30 ad
journs by 1:20.
Friday Cine Series  Black 
Orpheus, Porter Hall 100, 7:30 
and 10. Y-members 25c others 
75c.
Film Arts  Gervaise Por
ter HaU 100 4:30, 7:00 & 9:30, 
Oct. 12, Members only.
Saturday Night Dorm Movie
 Mutiny on the Bounty Ski
bo Ballroom. October 14.
Chaplin Films  Modern 
Times, Wednesday, October 11 
Skibo Ballroom. 4, 6, 8, 10.
Learn the Bagpipes  Organ
izational meeting Thursday, Oc
tober 12, 5:30 room 200 Skibo.
Jazz Band Positions 
Remain Partly Filled
The results of the auditions 
held last week for the C-MU 
Concert Jazz Band have been an
nounced: Trumpets, Mark Sil
ver,, Mark Schrells, Larrj^ Shaf
fer, Dennis Ferry; Trombones; 
Georg Schuesser, Paul Thiessen, 
Barry Catelinet; Saxophones; 
Harry Lord, Doug Keefe, Tony 
Sawyer, Bob Cunningham, Ed 
Kelen; Bass; Virgil Walters and 
Drums; Dave Choraa.
Tryouts are still open for 
piano, trombone, and tuba. In
terested players should contact 
Dick Shoup at 681-3676 or leave 
a note in the Music Department.
Mum
Sale
For Homecoming
OCTOBER 16-19 
BAKER HALL 
AND 
SKIBO CAFETERIA
Sponsored By
CWENS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 11, 19<S7 - THE TARTAN - Rage 9
OiHOi8
VARSITY SOCCER AT CMU?
RALPH SWOBODA, Associate Sports Editor
Until 1950 soccer was part of the varsity athletic program at 
CIT and Tartan teams played a regular schedule against such 
schools as Grove City, Slippery Rock, Allegheny, and Thiel. In 
1950, however, an expanding Intramural program required a 
change in athletic policy and soccer was dropped. According to 
Mel Cratsley, former athletic director at CIT and now holding 
the same post at Point Park College, finances, or rather a lack 
of them, put a pinch on the sports and the needs of IM teams for 
room to practice and compete conflicted with the soccer program. 
With a limited amount of land available for two varsity sports 
and IM athletics, something had to go and something was varsity 
soccer.
In the last ten years, however, interest in soccer, on this 
campus and throughout the nation, has been on the rise. The 
coming of professional soccer to Pittsburgh has generated a 
fair amount of local interest in the sport, and at Carnegie soc
cer has become an increasingly important part of intrapiurals. 
This year, student enthusiasm for soccer has led C-MU Ath
letic Director Raymond Haynes, a four year varsity soccer 
player at Slippery Rock, to propose the formation of a campus 
Soccer Club which could form the basis for a future varsity 
squad. Mr. Haynes told the Tartan, The first sport I would 
like to see added to our varsity program is soccer. He went on 
to say that he was confident that if the student body gener
ated enthusiasm for the sport the administration would be 
willing to revive varsity soccer.
In a meeting with area athletic directors last spring, Haynes 
discovered that other nearby schools are interested in forming a 
soccer league. As a result of the meeting, a game has been tenta
tively scheduled between all- IM teams from C-MU and Washing
ton and Jefferson College for later in the year. If the soccer club 
becomes a reality there is the possibility of further games with 
Robert Morris and Allegheny Community College. These schools 
and others could develop into a varsity league, provided soccer 
receives enough support from Carnegie students.
The main problem facing soccer is the same one that brought 
about its demise in 1950: lack of land. Haynes mentioned two 
possible sites for soccer practice sessions: the land being Morewood Gardens, which would require some development before it 
could be used and which is a possible site for a new Drama theater, 
and the Schenley oval which is some distance from campus. How
ever, Mr. Haynes, a strong believer in conditioning, dosent consid
er the distance to a Schenley practice field to be an obstacle. Let 
the team run up there; the run will keep them in shape, was his 
comment.
Barry Gordon, the IM soccer Commissioner, has been search
ing for soccer players who would like to scrimage other schools 
as part of the club which Haynes has proposed. If enough people 
show interest, who knows? Varsity soccer could become a reality 
at CMU next year.
(The editors would like to thank Don Baer for bis help in 
preparing this article. Students interested in forming the soccer 
club should contact Barry Gordon at PKA.)
HARRIERS EDGED 
30-26 BY RESERVE
Don Boer
A wounded C-MU cross coun
try was edged 30-26 by Western 
Reserve last Wednesday on the 
Schenley course. With junior co
captain Bernie Flynn sick and 
the other co-captain, senior Dale 
Peschel, out with an injured 
knee, only two of last years first 
nine men were left to run against 
the Cleveland school. The C-MU 
entries were primarily new
comers and last years reserve 
squad.
Don Baer took first for Car
negie with a time of 24:52. He 
was followed by two Reserve 
runners. John Buth and Joe Lorhan came in fourth and fifth 
with times of 25:52 and 25:56, 
resepectively. Reserve completed 
its scoring with sixth, seventh, 
and eighth places. Gary Scarborouh was ninth for C-MU and 
Bull Buie competed the Tar
tans scoring by taking 11th. Re
serves best time was turned in 
by Dolezal at 24-58.| *
This Wednesday the Tartan 
Harriers travel to Bethany. 
Their next home meet will be 
n October 18 against Geneva.
Don Baer leads the pack against 
Western Reserve.
LONELY? Like to meet new 
people? Try computerized 
dating program. For free 
dati ng program. For 
free brochure, write 
DATAMATIC, P.O. Box 7421 
Oakland Station, Pgh., Pa;
VIRGINIA
TRADITIONAL 
INSTRUMENTAL & VO<AL MUSIC
FRANK GIORGI 
AUNT JINNY WILSON 
RUSSELL FLUMEARTY
TWiWi:
j. janke, Editor 
r. swoboda, Assoc. Ed.
Gators Over Tartans 
34-20 In Home Opener
Larry Ghetto (11) carries for the Tartans .Hot in pursuit is Alle
ghenian Stover (72).
The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans 
had a new name and new uni
forms for their home opener 
against Allegheny but the Ga
tors werent impressd as they 
rolled to a 34-20 victory. It was 
the second defeat in three games 
for the squad and the ever en
thusiastic Tartan fans were dis
appointed. The Gators, led by 
the passing of Mike Ganey and 
the fine running of freshman 
fullback John Lyth, scored first 
and were never headed as the 
Tartan attack faltered before the 
Allegheny defense.
The game started on an inlorious note when the kick-off
18 Wooster 21 
28 Oberlin 14
20 Allegheny 34
Oct. 14 ......................Grove City
Oct. 21 ....................................F&M
Oct. 28 .............................at Thiel
Nov. 4..............at Westminster
Nov. 11 ... ..........................W&J
Ti/ktn mt Skib* mhrmmttt 4Hk. < *Opm f* yoopm
bounced through the Tartan re
ceiving team for a touchback 
and was brought out to the 20. 
On the first play from scrim
mage, Dick Bell got behind the 
defensive backs but Hubkas 
pass was short and Bell was 
caught before he could break 
loose. Allegheny stopped the 
drive and scored on their first 
series. The drive was high
lighted by fullback Lyths near 
breakaway run and a 20 yard 
touchdown pass by quarterback 
Ganey.
Early in the second quarter 
the Tartans recovered a fum
ble on their own 33 yard line 
A screen pass to Cherney moved 
the ball to the Allegheny 35 and 
on the next play a defensive 
pass interference call put the 
ball on the one yard line. Ken 
Batorski scored the touchdown 
on a drive play. The extra point 
was missed knotting the score 
at 6-6.
It looked as if the tie would 
not be broken until the second 
half but with only a few min
utes remaining in the second 
quarter Lyth rumbled 58 yds for 
a score. The extra point was 
converted and the Tartans en
tered the locker room on the 
short end of a 13-6 score.
Joe Cherneys second half 
kickoff was returned to the 
Tartan 30. Two plays later Al
legheny scored on a 25 yd pass 
and with another successful 
conversion led 20-6. The Tar
tans came right back to score 
on a 56 yard drive capped by
I.M. REVIEW
Packers League
TDP J picked up their first 
win of the season by toppling 
the Berets 20-6 with 13 points 
in the fourth quarter. DU jump
ed to a quick 8-0 lead in the 
first quarter but GSIA came 
back to win 22-9. In the only 
other Packer League game this 
week, ATO gained a first place 
tie with GSIA by defeating the 
Berets 45-5.
Standings as of 
Standings
October 8 
WL
ATO30
GSIA30
BSR11
DU12
Berets13
TDP T12
SAE B02
a 10 yard pass to Tony Bugel, 
but the try for a two point con
version failed making the differ
ence 20 to 12.
Allegheny took possession on 
the kick-off and marched downfield to score another touch
down on a one yard plunge by 
Ganey. After a good extra point 
try the Tartans were down 27 
to 12 and hopes for an upset 
appeared dim. The Tartans, 
though, were undaunted as they 
once again got a drive going. 
After a 25 yard pass to Bator
ski, the ball was on the Gator 
30. A pass interference call put 
the ball on the two. A TD came 
on a pass to Charlie Zak and 
the attempt at a two point con
version was successful as Hubka hit Cherney.
The Tartans were still in 
striking range being down only
27 to 20, but the Gators were 
not to be denied. They recovered 
a fumble on the 29 and two 
passes moved the ball to the 
one, from which Ganey carried 
the ball for his second touch
down.. With Palmer converting, 
the tally became 34-20. A tired 
Tom Hubka tried to get the 
ball club moving again but two 
drives were stopped by intercep
tions and the game ended with 
Allegheny on top 34-20.
Mike Ganey completed 19 of
21 passes for 232 yards and two 
TDs and also ran for two more. 
Tom Hubka didnt pass as well 
completing 18 of 33, but a strong 
defensive rush preventd him 
from getting set and also de
flected two passes. Hubka was 
forced to run time and again 
as his receivers were well cov
ered by the Allegheny defensive 
secondary. The brightest spot 
for the Tartans was Joe Cherney 
who kicked, ran back punts and 
kick-offs, and played flankerback and safety. Cherney threw 
several key blocks, one spring
ing Ghetto, and was in on a 
number of tackles. Another 
plus for the Tartans this year 
is their strong running back 
corps, and the fine defensive 
line play of Gene Giarnelli.
This week the Tartans play 
host to powerful Grove City 
who beat the Tartans 52 to 35 
last year.
C-MU Allegheny
18 First Downs 15 
113 Yards Rushing 163 
251 Yds. Passing 232 
18/33 Passes 19/21
2 Had Intercepted 0 
3-38.66 Punts 4-39.5
2 -2 Fumbles 4 -4
Browns League
In the only game this week, 
ATO B got off a quick 17-1 
lead in the first period and 
went on to trounce PKT Gold 
36-19.
ndingsWL
PKA10
EJs20
Met Knights20
TDP11
ATO B11
PKT Gold03
DTD02
Colts Leagues
BTP coasted to an easy 33-4 
victory over the Trojans and 
to a 43-0 whitewash of TX. SAE 
maintained their spotless rec
ord by defeating the Old Men 
30-27 in one of the best games 
of the season. The Old Men 
scored touchdowns' in each of 
the four perods but couldnt 
cope ,with SAE end, Malizia 
whose receptions accounted for 
three of the four SAE touch
downs, including the clincher in 
the fourth quarter. If BTP can 
get past the Old Men, it looks 
like the Oct. 18 matchup be
tween BTP and SAE will deter
mine the Colt League champs. 
SN B beat the clock in top
ping the Trojans 29-24 as they 
scored a first down and then 
went in for the touchdown with 
one minute lfet.
idingsWL
BTP20
SAE30
OLD Men21
KS11
TX02
SN B11
Trojans04
Cowboys League
The Grad Nads took undisput
ed possession of first place by 
defeating SN 28-19 while the 
Bandits suffered a 27-12 setback 
from a tough Bruins squad. Sil
ver, the Bandits quarterback, 
led his team to a 39-0 shutout 
of DU J and a 36-1 win over 
PKT P. Against PKT Pur
ple, DU J was able to put 
eight points on the scoredboard 
but they lost as PKT Purple
scored 27 for their 
tory.initialvicStandingsWL
Grad Nads30
Bandits21
SN21
BTP B11
Bruins11
PKT Purple13
NOTE: The due date for I. M. 
bowling rosters had been 
changed from Tuesday, Nov. 7 
to Tuesday Oct. 24. Anyone who 
is interested in participating 
should contact Jim Barlak in 
room 113 Donner Hail

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 11, 1967
IT'S HERE . . . BABY!
Osg 8gn 
DlOOcxHWs YlvE WH!xD
surfacing soon 
with the underground and new cinema
Homecoming Queen Candidates
The 1967 Homecoming Queen candidates were selected 
last week by a vote of fraternity men and dorm residents. Final voting will be conducted October 16 and 17. All male 
students are eligible to vote.
The Queen, one of seven freshmen women, will be 
crowned preceding the Ray Charles Concert Friday night.
Scotia on a hosteling trip. She 
skis and plays field hockey, too.
Cherie Haines hails from 
Moorestown, N. J. She thinks 
CMU is great. Here there are 
so many different people. You 
can find everything here. 
Cheerie loves the hills of Pitts
burgh and the cleanliness of the 
city as compared to New York 
and Philadelpiha. She summers 
in Ocean City, N.J., where she 
swims and water skis. She also 
likes motorcyclesjust sold one 
before coming to school. A Mod
ern languages major, Cherie 
spent last summer in Spain and 
is considering a carer as a 
translator. Her immediate fu
ture plans are graduation from 
college and a two- year stint in 
the Peace Corps. Cheerie is 5' 
2V2", with light brown hair and 
brown eyes. About her nomina
tions she commented, This has 
been a good experience  just 
being nominated, and meting all 
these people.
Cheryl Ryave
Cheryl Ryave is a tiny, talk
ative girl from Stanton Heights, 
Pittsburgh. She has blue-green 
eyes, boy-cut hair and a flash
ing smile. Cheryl who loves 
talking to people, wants to be 
a social worker. That is why 
shes majoring in Psychology. 
She makes pottery and mosaics 
and likes football. Cheryl was 
the first interviewed, and her 
comment on CMU was, I love 
it here!
Joanne Foster comes to CMU 
from Scarsdale, N. Y. About 
Pittsbugh she said, I love barJoanne Foster
gains. I had a great time down
town. Her blond hair is should
er-length, shes about 54, and 
her eyes are hazel. CMU wasnt 
her first choice, but after one 
month, Joanne has difinitely de
cided it should have been. She 
is a Psychology major, and she 
loves observing people  their 
expressions and actions. Joanne 
likes horoscopes and candles. 
This summer she toured Nova
Kent Wilson
Kent Wilson, named for her 
father, is tall and slender with 
pale blond hair and big blue 
eyes. In Drama, she wants most 
definitely, I hope to be an ac
tress. In fact, Kent worked in 
the theatre for a year before de
ciding on an education is es
sential to her becoming a good 
actress. Acting is my life, she 
said, and in the same breath, 
but I love people, too. I guess 
its all tied in. Kent likes to 
go out and enjoy herself. Most 
of all, she wants to be happy, 
to play in the park and swing 
on the swings. Kent comes 
from Louisville, Kentucky, 
where, two years ago, she was 
crowned Ky. Junior Miss.
One of the most interesting 
things about dark-haired Linda 
Worthington is all the places she 
has lived in. With her family 
have seen Seattle, Wash., West 
Point, N. Y., Orleans, France, 
and most recently Frankfurt, 
Germany. Linda describes her
self as friendly but sometimes 
subject to serious moods. She 
likes to ski and sketch. A math 
major, she is interested in com
puters, but she is really not sure 
what she wants to do when she 
finishes college. I guess thats 
why Im here, she said. When 
asked, Hows the world?, Lin
da laugh and said, Just great!
Michele Berger
Michele Berger has long brown 
hair and brown eyes. She is 5 
4, and comes from Larchmont, 
N. Y. Micheles first love is math 
which is her major here. Al
though she says she knows 
what she likes about people, she 
isnt sure just what she wants 
out of life. She is certain, though, 
that when she does decide, shes 
going to go out and get it 
Michele loves moneyto have 
and to spendand the pleasures 
that go with it But I wouldnt 
want it just for myself, and Id 
never hurt anybody getting it. 
Since she has been at C-MU, 
Michele has been pretty interspective. She describes herself as 
serious-minded, but she loves 
people who make her laugh. 
Shes fond of dancing, especially 
ballroom, and loves all kinds of 
music except the very heavy 
classical. Also an animal lover, 
she owns a cat and a chicken.
Patty Pensel looks like a Pat
ty. Shes 57, with long, red
dish-brown hair, and green eyes. 
Pat is an English major who 
wants to teach on the college 
level. She loves dramatics and 
the theater, although acting 
could never be her whole life.
* * * ? * * * * ? * * * * *791 PENN AVENUE * *
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3M FORBES AVENUE
* ROUTE I, NORTH Of ETNA
Slide Rulers Of The World Unite!
YOU HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE BUT . . . you can join the g 
IMAD Club. Membership now open. Lifetime "professional" 
membership card with beautiful, gold-plated, hand-polished 
slide rule tie-clasps. (Engraved calibrations and numerals).
Decorative and useful. Has that fine jewelry look.
Nicely boxed conversation piece. Only $1.00 ppd.
uxcO!EuHiYO uHgiOl!8c
g P. O. Box 1111, Dept. CTT1, Providence, Rhode Island 02901 rf
Original
HOUSE
of
BEEF
PRIME ROAST BEEF
Served the Way You Like It
--PIZZA -
SERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMSI 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
Beechwood Blvd.: Furnished 
room for gentleman. Third 
floor. Semi-private bath. $55 
per month. Phone 421-9538.
Take your chances on Friday 13th. 
800 p.m. to 1200 midnight.
THE COMBO ISdOP_ aURG cI#_
Admission 50
Coat and tie requiredSponsored by Mount Mercy Student Nurses
Cherie HainesLinda WorthingtonPatty Pensel
Homecoming
Entertainment
(Continued from Page 1)
by the Alumni Association 
8:30-11:30  Gary Glenn and 
the Jeweltons and Pat Olivers 
Orchestra
11:30 pm  Award Presenta
tion
The Homecoming Committee 
has emphasized that no one will 
be admitted to the Saturday eveing dance without a ticket.
She feels she couldnt get in* 
volved with the hard profession
al world. Pat models and writes. 
She describes herself as an ex
trovert, very happy, and very 
stable. She is athletic  swiming, horseback - riding, and ten
nis are her favorite sports. The 
most important thing to Patty? 
to be happy - whatever it en
tails.
There will be a meeting of 
the TARTAN staff on Sun
day, 15 October 1967, in 
Room 45, Skibo. Attendance 
is mandatory at this meet
ing. The meeting will com
mence at noon, and should 
last no more than an hour. 
All editors should report fif
teen minutes early.

Learn The 
BAGPIPES 
Check Your 
Local Bulletin 
Board For 
Information
