Tech Takes A Look 
At Radical Theology
Carnegie Techs four-part exploration of the Deathof-Gcd controversy will begin Feb. 2 at 8 pm in Skibo Lobby f with an open-end teach-in featuring a filmed presentation 
about prominent radical theologian Dr. Thomas Altizer. As 
F reported in the Dec. 14 Tartan, the succeeding programs 
will occupy three consecutive Tuesday assembly periods be
ginning Feb. 7. These assemblies will begin at 4:30 pm.
Successful Ten-Year Drive 
Brings New Building Plans
President H. Guyford Stever has annou need the completion of the current ten-year 
development program. The original goal 29 million dollars set in the spring of 1957 has 
been surpassed by more than one million dollars.
Of the original objectives listed in 1957, all but one were met. The original plan called 
for an increase in the size of the faculty, and in faculty salaries. As a result of this devel/ opment drive, faculty salaries
God Is Dead
f _/)r. Thomas Altizer, prominent 
radical theologian who wll speak 
here February 7.
Following the presentation of 
the film, the teach-in group will 
hear commentary on the meaning 
cf the Death-of-God movement by 
Father Andre Schuwer, Head of 
the Duquesne Philosophy Departs ment, the Reverend Hugh Wright 
^ (Continued on Page 2)
a>-QEDz
O<3a>E
O>
h.*0o>
>So"On3
CFP Releases Final Rules, 
Schedule For Formal Rush
The Council of Fraternity Presidents has released next 
semesters formal rush schedule and list of rush rules in 
their final forms. Formal rush this year includes eight 
events from Thursday evening, Feb. 2, to pledging night, 
Monday, Feb. 13.
The rush schedule is:
Thursday, Feb. 2dinner 
Friday, Feb. 2smoker 
Monday, Feb. 6dinner 
Tuesday, Feb. 7lunch 
Wednesday, Feb. 8dinner 
Friday, Feb. 10smoker 
Saturday, Feb. 11party 
Monday, Feb. 13pledging dinner
Dinners last from five to 7:30 
pm, smokers from seven to 10 
p m the lunch from 11:30 am to 
1:30 pm, and the party from 8:30 
pm to 1 am. The dinners and 
smokers are coat-and-tie affairs. 
Casual dress is suitable for the 
lunch and the party.
The rush rules reprinted below 
apply to freshmen only and are 
in effect until pledging night. After 
that, open rush is in effect.
1. Fraternity men are prohibited 
from giving rushees anything of 
monetary value. (Rides to dinner 
on Sundays and to parties are 
permitted; however, buying them 
dinner and loaning them cars is 
against the rules.)
2. Rushees may contact a fra
ternity man at any time.
3. A rushee is permitted in a 
house during the rush event.
4. A rushee is not permitted in 
an apartment associated with a 
fraternity man.
5. Quiet hours will prevail in the 
dorms from 7 pm until 8:30 
am each day. Quiet hours means 
that a fraternity man shall not 
take the initiative in discussing 
fraternity affairs, although per
sonal friendship visits are permited.
6. A special quiet hour will pre
vail for an hour preceding each 
rush event. In this case, no fra
ternity man shall initiate contact 
with a rushee.
7. Complete quiet hours take 
place from 1 am Saturday, Feb.
11 until 5:30 pm on Monday, Feb. 
13.
8. Fraternity men cannot offer 
rushees alcoholic beverages at any 
time, in or out of fraternity 
houses. No alcoholic beverages 
may be served at any scheduled 
rush event,
9. Bids may be given from five 
pm on Feb. 2 on. No bids may be 
accepted before five pm on Mon
day, Feb. 13.
Europe Flight
An organizational meeting will 
be held tomorrow in the Wherrett 
Room at 4:30 for the Tech Group 
Flight to Europe this summer. 
All interested are invited to at
tend.
Work Continues On N ew Lounges
Carl D. Thomas, Director of 
physical Plant, is having cost 
estimates made on Student Sen
ates proposed Highlander Room 
project. Final figures should be 
ready by tomorrow.
The plan, which would convert 
the Highlander Room to a loungerecreation area, was presented to 
the Administration early in De
cember.
Mr. Thomas has also contact
ed the Union Committee of Stu
dent Senate about selection of 
furniture for the new room. De
signer Paul Plauert is working 
on more detailed drawings. 
The Union Committee will meet 
at the beginning of next semester 
to review progress on the project 
and plan the next steps in com
pleting it. Once the estimates and 
drawings are approved, funds 
must be secured and construction 
bids obtained.
Renewal Forms Still Available
Carnegie Tech scholarship and 
loan recipients who did not re
ceive financial aid renewal appli
cations in the mail over the holi
day should pick up these applica
tions in the Financial Aid Office, 
Warner Hall 211.
Each application consists of 
a Parents Confidential State
ment and a Carnegie Applica
tion for Financial Aid. Both 
forms are required for renewal 
aid in the 1967-68 academic year.
The Parents Confidential State
ment is to be completed by the 
students parents and sent with 
$1.50 to the College Scholarship 
Service by February 15 for pro
cessing. The Carnegie Application 
is to be completed by the student 
and returned to the Financial Aid 
Office by March 15.
Alien Registration
Every foreign student who is 
not a U. S. citizen must register 
with the Federal Immigration 
and Naturalization Service before 
January 30. An announcement 
released by Eugene Milich, As
sistant Dean of Men, reads:
Every alien who is within the 
United States on the first day of 
January of each year shall, with
in 30 days following such date, 
report his address to the Commissoner, Immigration and Na
turalization Service.
Go to any U.S. Post Office or 
Immigration and Naturalization 
Office and ask for the alien ad
dress report card (Form 1-53). 
Complete all items on this card 
and hand the card to a clerk in 
the post office or immigration 
office.
Council Refuses To Act On MDC Discipline Case
The Administrations Dis
ciplinary Council declined to 
pass judgment on an appeal 
case just before vacation 
when it learned that Mens 
Dormitory Council had not 
processed the case.
The case concerned four men 
from Welch Hall who had been 
charged with creating disturban
ces in the dorm. The second 
week in December, they received 
letters from Earle Swank, Dean 
of Men, telling them they had to 
move out of the dormitory. Swank 
wrote the letters at the request 
of Ron Haan, president of Welch 
Hall. The men appealed this ac
tion to the Division of Student 
Affairs, and a hearing was sched
uled for Tuesday, December 20, 
in the office of George K. Brown, 
Dean of Student Affairs.
MDC Passes Case On 
At the hearing, it was discover
ed that Mens Dorm Council, the 
student governing body in the 
dorms, had not heard the case. 
The usual procedure for disciplin
ary problems in the dorms is for 
MDC to hear the case, make a 
decision of guilty or not guilty, 
and decide appropriate disciplin
ary action. Administrations Dis
ciplinary Council then okays the 
action. Also, a defendant may ap
peal MDCs decision to the Dis
ciplinary Council.
According to Dean Brown, 
When we heard that Dorm 
Council hadnt seen the case, 
we didnt want to touch it. 
Dorm Council should have a 
chance to try every disciplin
ary case. Dean Swanks letter 
has been temporarily rescinded, 
and the defendants are still in 
Welch.
MDC tried the case last Thurs
day night and is sending its ver
dict to the Disciplinary Council, 
where it will await Administra
tion approval before it is made 
public.
After the MDC trial, Haan ex
plained that he had bypassed 
MDC and taken the case to 
Dean Swank because he wanted 
immediate action on the prob
lem. Mens Dorm Council had 
two or three other cases pending, 
and they wouldnt have been able 
to act on it. These four men were 
quite a problem, and other people 
in the dorm wanted something 
done about it right away.
History Of Film Requires Exam
A prerequisite examination for 
all candidates for the History of 
the Film course will be given this 
afternoon at 4:30 in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium. The purpose of the 
examination will be to provide an 
indication of the candidates know
ledge of movies both technically 
and historically. The examination 
will be objective and will help to 
select the 50 students who may 
sign up for the course.
The course, History of the Film, 
is being offered jointly by the 
history and drama departments.
have increased an average of 66 
per cent, and the ratio of stu
dents to faculty has been main
tained at nine to one, while 
student enrollment has increased 
from 3,000 to 4,000 full-time 
students. In addition, the construc
tion program added four new 
buildings to the campus; Skibo, 
Scaife Hall, the Hunt Library, and 
Doherty House, residence for 
married students. Finally, the de
velopment program enabled Tech 
to improve the existing campus 
faculties, such as rebuilding Tech 
field, and essentially reconstructed 
most of the north half of the cam
pus.
Two buildings originally call
ed for in the plans were not 
built. A proposal for a Printing 
Management Building was de
leted when Tech revised its 
curriculum and dropped this 
course of study. The other build
ing scheduled for completion 
during 1957-67 was the Dramatic 
Arts Center, which was not built 
due to lack of funds and changes 
in the original concept.
In addition to the 30 million 
dollars received as a direct con
sequence of the development 
fund, 61 million dollars in gifts 
and grants has been received by 
Tech. Some of the money has gone 
toward other buildings that were 
built during this ten-year period, 
though not officially part of the 
development program. These in
clude Warner Hall, the new Mudge 
addition, Hammerschlag House, 
several fraternity duplexes, and 
other physical improvements.
President Stever, in commenting 
on the achievement of the de
velopment goals, told the Tartan 
this program has shown Techs 
strength in the achievement of 
these goals. It indicates that Tech 
has donors, alumni, and other 
friends who are willing to support 
us, and our educational goals. 
Stever sees several areas in 
i which Tech must devote resour
ces and planning in the next few 
years. The most immediate of 
these include completion of the 
Mellon-Tech merger, which will 
strengthen Techs science and 
engineering curricula and per
sonnel.
Concomitant with the develop
ment of Carnegie University, ad
ditional emphasis must be placed 
in other areas not directly affect
ed by the addition of Mellons facilities. Especially important are 
the colleges of Fine Arts and Mar
garet Morrision, and the new col
lege of Humanities and Social 
Sciences.
Other areas cited by Stever as 
(Continued on Page 2)
Draft Tests
The Selective Service Quali
fication Tests will be given 
three times in the Spring of 
1967. The announced dates are 
March 11, March 31, and April
8. Applications for the test 
will be available after Jan. 20, 
either from local draft boards, 
or from Mrs. Ryan, Selective 
Service Administrator in War
ner Hall 205.
These applications must be 
submitted by Feb. 10 for any 
of the three qualification tests 
given next spring.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Tuesday, January 10, 1967
Editorials . . .
Extra Time Needed
Since Tech is destined to suffer under a completely out
dated calendar for another year, one that places a maximum 
amount of strain and stress on students just before finals, 
several modifications to the present calendar would make 
this system more bearable.
The greatest drawback to the present calendar, besides 
not ending the first semester before Christmas, is that 
virtually no break exists between normal classes and finals, 
unless one is fortunate enough to have no final exam on the 
first Friday of finals. Morevoer, many students find that not 
only are there the normal homework assignments to com
plete, but many instructors schedule papers and final proj
ects for the week preceding finals. In addition, the Mathe
matics Department consistently schedules hour exams the 
week before the final exam in the same course. Hence, try
ing to keep up with normal class work occupies most of the 
students time, so he has little chance to review properly 
for finals.
Many schools, such as Harvard and Cal Tech (and 
with whom Tech has compared tuitions as a rationale 
for a tuition increase), have a reading period extending 
three or four days before final exam period. There are 
no assignments made during this time, so that the time 
can be used to study and review for final exams. Many 
instructors are available during this time to answer 
questions from students.
There doesnt seem to be any valid reason why Tech 
cannot adopt this policy, even as soon as this coming se
mester. While it may be argued that it would remove one 
or two class days in each course, the ultimate value of the 
few class days before finals is somewhat dubious. If an in
structor felt that he must have the two additional class per
iods, it would not be too difficult to condense the material 
presented during a normal 50 minute period so that two 
minutes-worth of extra material can be squeezed in each 
class period.
Of course, the ultimate solution to the problem is 
the adoption of a completely new calendar that is more 
in line with the needs of a progressive university.
Tech YAF Condemns 
Partial Viet Efforts
The Young Americans for Freedom (YAF) on the Tech campus has released the following recommendation on American policy in Vietnam. Chairman of YAF is Jim Coyne, a sophomore in chemistry 
The time has come for the academic community to work 
together in support of victory in the war in South Vietnam. Vic
tory for the free world is the essential ingredient for an enduring peace in Southeast Asia.
If the communist agressor is appeased in Vietnam, then South
east Asia will be plagued with more so-called wars of national lib
eration. Communist conquest in that area of the world may precipi
tate World War III. We must block the communists plans for control 
of Southeast Asia; we must defeat them in South Vietnam.
Obligation To Support Troops
In defense of South Vietnam the United States government has 
sent hundreds of thousands of troops, with several hundred thou
sand more to join them in ensuing months. The President of the 
United States has a moral obligation to give unlimited support to 
our fighting men. It is immoral to reject victory when American 
youth are fighting a war. It is immoral to refuse victory to an ally in 
its struggle to remain free from totalitarian domination.
No final solution to the war in Vietnam will be found in the 
unconditional negotiations which the present administration has 
set as its goal. World peace will not be guaranteed by such action. 
Indeed, world peace will be weakened by unconditional negotia
tions with the communists in Vietnam.
Our goal in Vietnam must be peace through victory. There is 
only one effective response to aggression and that is to smash the 
aggressor. Severely limited response, as ours has been in Vietnam, 
conciliates the enemy at the expense of our own forces and results in 
enlargement of the aggression. World peace can be achieved only 
when the aggressors are defeated.
The honor of the United States and of its allies is now at stake 
in this war. The overcautious approach and defensive tactics which 
have characterized our commitment thus far must be replaced with 
a determination to win.
Three-Front Program Advocated
We advocate the pursuit of victory on three frontsdiplomatic, 
economic and militaryand urge the following steps toward a goal 
of victory in Vietnam.
Diplomatic: The simple act of stating a firm policy of victory is 
the first and most important step in establishing diplomatic unity of 
the free nations in Europe, Africa, Asia, ond South America as a 
solid barrier to Communism all over the world. The President of 
the United States must make it crystal clear that the free world 
intends to achieve peace through victory in the Vietnam war. Such 
a statement should be made immediately.
Economic: The immense economic power must be employed so 
as to discourage other nations from trading with North Vietnam. Eco
nomic pressures should be used to restrain other nations from trading 
with North Vietnam. Economic pressures should be used to restrain 
our so-called allies, who are presently trading with the communist 
aggressor.
The United States must not indulge in such fancies as building 
bridges to communist nations when those countries are supporting 
the Viet Cong and North Vietnam. Such measures are indeed strange 
when over a million troops of the free world are today involved in a 
life-and-deoth struggle with the communists in South Vietnam.
Military. American lives are committed in this struggle. Their 
Commander-in-Chief, their President, must support our fighting men 
to the utmost capacity and achieve victory.
All military targets in North Vietnam should be available for 
military attack. These include control centers, airfields, electrical 
power installations, factories, major supply-storage areas, irrigation 
systems, principal transportation centers, and harbor facilities. 
Civilian populations in these areas can be forewarned and thus little, 
if any, civilian casualties will occur.
Privileged sanctuary must be denied the enemy. Our air 
forces must be free to execute the most efficient possible destruc
tion of military targets in Laos, Cambodia and North Vietnam.
The port of Haiphong must be closed, and the coast of North 
Vietnam must be closed, either by quarantine (as Kennedy employed 
during the Cuban crisis) or by blockade/ It is criminal folly to require 
infantrymen to meet in the jungles of South Vietnam enemy forces 
and material which could have been excluded from the war zone by 
our superior sea and air forces.
Victory Essential To Prevention of WW III
Unless the United States and the free Asian countries win a 
clear victory in this war, Red China will conquer the Pacific rim. If 
this should happen, then a third world war will follow.
Morally and strategically, we cannot abandon the people of 
South Vietnam to the communist aggressor. A prosperous eco
nomic and political future will be assured for South Vietnam 
when the President of the United States decides that victory is 
our goal. The Ame ican people have already made their decision.
It is clear, therefore, that peace is attainable only through 
VICTORY IN VIETNAM. We pledge our full support to that cause. 
We invite all Americans to join us in urging this essential new direc
tion to United States policy in Southeast Asia.
GOD...
(Continued from Page 1) 
of Chatham College, and Orwin 
Yourgquist, a Tech senior.
A survey of student reactions 
to ten statements of radical 
theology (summarized in the 
Dec. 20 Tartan) showed the gen
eral confusion about the ideas 
involved. Almost all respondents 
to the survey wanted to know 
more about the nature of the 
controversy  exactly what do 
people like Altizer mean when 
they say God is dead?
Dr. Altizer himself will explain 
his views on Feb. 7. He is Pro
fessor of Religion at Emory Uni
versity and is one of the men 
most generally identified with the 
new radical theology. A graduate 
of the University of Chicago, Al
tizer has written widely on the 
Death of God, and coauthored 
Radical Theology and the Death 
of God with William Hamilton of 
Colgate in 1966. Following the 
assembly, Altizer will continue 
his discussion over dinner at six 
pm; he will participate in an in
formed dialog with Rabbi Richard 
Rubenstein, chaplain to Jewish 
students at all Pittsburgh colleges 
and a well-informed student of 
new theologies.
Two Further Commentators
The program continues for two 
more Tuesdays. On Feb. 14, Pro
fessor Eugene Fontainel, Chair
man of the Philsophy Department 
at Queens College in New York, 
will speak. Professor Fontanel is 
a Catholic layman whose sym
pathies for the Death - of - God 
movement stem from his special
ization in 19th century existential
ism and phenomenology.
Fontanel will be followed on 
Feb. 21 by Dr. Altizers coau
thor, William Hamilton, who is 
Professor of Theology and Ethics 
at Colgate  Rochester Divinity 
School. Hamilton deals primarily 
with the personal and social ethics 
of living in a detheologized 
world.
All parts of the program are 
open to interested Tech Students.
A Grownup 
Or A Gross-Out
Eric Berne recently wrote a 
bcck, Games People Pl?y, which 
is now incomplete and should be 
revised. I should like to see him 
attempt to analyze the behavior 
of ATO.
I have tentatively titled the 
game How To Exhibit Yourself 
Ar.d Turn-off Others. It takes ap
proximately 15 boys to play HTEYATO and is best played in early 
evening, say seven oclock.
You take a boy, strip him to 
his underwear, charge over to 
Mcrewood, and pretend to be 
ready to throw him into the foun
tain. Unfortunately it is January 
and there is no water to anoint 
him with. This leads to frustra
tion of his exhibitionist drive. 
The main participant in HTEYATO then must totally undress 
himself and parade naked across 
Morewood Avenue to the cheering 
of the brotherhood.
You teach a student about free 
will, and his rational mind ac
cepts this game. A true victory 
for the younger generation, and 
worth dying to defend.
If Time Magazine can nominate 
the under-25 generation as Man 
of the YearI have found the 
ideal candidate for Boy of the 
Year.
Come on, accept the challenge 
and grow up.
Laura Seidler 
Graphics 68
Development...
(Continued from Page 1)
important for future plans are: 
increased emphasis in new areas 
of research such us urban affairs, 
and transportation research; im
provements in student life, such 
as an addition to Skibo, and im
proved mens housing.
Three Immediate Projects
Tech has three immediate phy
sical projects. One in the Dra
matic Arts Center, to which ap
proximately one million dollars 
has been granted according to 
John C. Johnson, Vice President 
for Development. Tech is within 
a matter of weeks of appointing 
an architect for this project.
Johnson stated that the prox
imity of the new site of WQED 
site to the DAC has increased 
the incentives to build it. Al^o, 
he said that society appears 
more ready to support the arts 
now than it did ten years ago.
The other two projects are the 
building of a new E&S research 
facility, to be constructed between 
Doherty Hall and Hammerschlag 
Hall (Machinery Hall). Finally 
two fraternity duplexes, to house 
the four fraternities that are not 
now in duplexes, will be built, 
probably by 1969.
Ski Club Elections
At a meeting last Thursday evening the Carnegie Tech Ski Club 
elected the following officers for 
1967: President, Jim Gursha; Vice 
President, Ed Corrigan; Treasur
er, John Cooper. Mr. David Bandler and Mr. Gen Vertura will 
continue as the faculty advisors.
Opera Tickets
Student tickets for the Pitts
burgh Opera Companys produc
tion of Madame Butterfly are 
now on sale in the Office of the 
Dean, College of Fine Arts. Dates 
of the opera are Thursday, Jan. 
19, and Saturday, Jan. 21. Tick
ets, located in the C section of 
the second balcony at Syria 
Mosque, are $2 each.
_carnegie techTARTAIM
RICHARD G. SEXTRO Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor ....................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor ................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager ...................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.................................................................BRUCE GEHN
News Editor ..............................................Mike Varga
Sports Edito..................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor .................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager  .............Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager....Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ............................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor ...................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor...........Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager....Harvey A. Shapiro 
Circulation Managers.I..Jeff Parks, Jim Neumeister
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Moses, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen 
Levine, Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, 
Louise Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rk9t Steffns, Joan Sztyga, 
Selina Wang, Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille Badzgon.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by Nationaf Advertising, Inc.
Of PICES; Skibo, Room SO, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Phone 662-4557

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, January 10, H967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
Two Miller One-Acts Open 
Here In Broadway Version
Two one-act dramas by Arthur Miller will open in the 
Craft Avenue Theatre of the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Fri* day, Jan. 20. The plays, A Memory of Two Mondays and A 
View from the Bridge, will be presented in the original 
Broadway version.
Ron Satlof directs the tragic 
drama A View from the Bridge. 
The story is concerned with life 
in an Italian-American colony on 
the Brooklyn waterfront.
Featured in A View from the 
Bridge are Leo Cimino as Al fieri, Alan Manson as Eddie,
Kathy Buck as Catherine, Cath
erine Gabrielson as Beatrice, 
Edd Gasper as Marco, and 
Stephen Wyman as Rodolpho. 
Also in the cast arc Ronald 
Colby, Marshall Efron, Harvey 
Solin, Alfred Leberfeld, Baker 
Salsbury, Mel Pascoll, and WilFILM ARTS SOCIETY
Begins its second series 
with
WOMAN IN THE DUNES
February 9th 
A FEW SUBSCRIPTION TICKETS REMAIN
SEND $3.50 Cash or Check to:
FILM ARTS 
Box 406 
Carnegie Tech
STUDENT DISCOUNT
IN THE CRAFT AVENUE THEATER . . .
PREVIEWS
BEGIN SUNDAY 
2 ARTHUR MILLER PLAYS
"A View From The Bridge"
..And..
fi'A Memory Of Two Mondays 
ALL SEATS 99c
ALSO IN THE HAMLET STREET THEATER . . .
JOHN OSBORNE S TH
Tues.-Fri. Evg. & Wed. Matinee, $1.50  Sat. Evg. $2.00
DL PLtfk OUAe 621-4445621-4445
P0HSE&ISvrW vrWsta
it starring MA^URM
andDDITT Cl/1 AMR Written by Produced by Directed byDIxll I LlALMMU neh simon john bryan Vittorio de sica
GodI BURT BACHARACH Produced by Delegate Produci.ons A 6 and Nancy Enterprises. Inc.
PAMAVISIOHlCOLOR by OeLuxeh1"^ UMITED ARTISTS
FOURTH BIG WEEK
MATINEES 
SATURDAY and SUNDAY
liam Pappas.
A Memory of Two Mondays,
directed by Ken Kitch, is the 
shorter of the two plays. It is 
the story of people working in 
an automobile parts warehouse 
in the early Roosevelt days.
Heading the cast in A Memory 
of Two Mondays is Palmer Deane 
as Bert, Leo Cimino as Gus, and 
Baker Salsbury as Kenneth.
These two dramas v/ill play 
Tuesday thru Sunday until Feb. 
26 in the Craft Avenue Theatre.
Meanwhile, John Osbornes 
The Entertainer continues its 
run in the Hamlet Street The
ater. Directed by Stephen 
Aaron with settings, costumes, 
and lighting, by Eldon Elder, 
this drama shows the gradual 
downfall of a third rate song 
and dance man, and the pain 
he brings to everyone sup
posedly dear to him. Don Croker is the musical director of 
The Entertainer.
Tickets for all these plays are 
available at the Pitt Book Center, 
the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Gimbels, Hornes, or by calling 621- 
4445.
Busy Visual Aids Center 
Services Faculty, Campus
by Sue Attinson
When Robert / Love set up shop at Carnegie Tech a 
year and four months ago, the school had no centralized vis
ual aids service. Today, Loves Teaching Aids Center, 139 
Baker Hall, fulfills as many as 400 student and faculty re
quests for equipment and operators per month.
Available at no cost are: 35mm 
slide, overhead, and movie projec
tors, and portable tape recorders. 
Under special circumstances the 
center will also lend out portable 
microphone systems and profes
sional tape recorders. Lending is 
primarily to the faculty although 
students may receive equipment 
on a limited basis.
Two video tape recorders, for 
closed-circuit television produc
tion, may be borrowed by faculty 
members only.
The center also repairs school 
equipment and arranges film 
rentals and purchases. Current
ly, plans are being developed to 
offer limited production serv
ices, making slides and trans
parencies for use in the projecA REMARKABLE FILM ! -LA TIMES
"DELIGHTFUL AND UNUSUAL,
A COMEDY OF THE GRANDEST SORT!
- N. Y. Times
A PLEASURE TO WATCH-A PLEASURE 
TO RECOMMEND! ' _ York Pot
"EXTRAORDINARY! HONEST
HUMOR!!  lime Magatine
"RARE ENTERTAINMENT! A GEM!
"MARVELOUS!- Cut Magatiti
EXCLUSIVE ENGAGEMENT
"WHOLLY MASTERFUL! REMARKABLE!*
 Saturday Havmw
STARTS 
WEDNESDAY 42M6335611066
For the first time on the giant screen 
in blazing TECHNICOLOR!
MAURICE W
EVANS
JUDITH
ANDERSON
in the GEORGE SCHAEFER productionof W ILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'Stttacetti
Also starring
MICHAEL HORDERN 'a > IAN R4NNFN .'>M'
Directed by Produced by
IAN BANNEN
Directed by
GEORGE SCHAEFER  PHIL C. SAMUEL
I PWHNEKT HlltS. 
IK KUtSf
TODAY AND TOMORROW ONLY!
SHOWS AT 2 and 8:30 P.M./NO RESERVED SEATS
STUDENTS
(with I.D. Card) 
$1.25
tors. For a fee of $20, a percent* 
age of which goes to the school, 
the center will use its micro
phones and stereo tape machine 
to record school talent.
Most requests for operators and 
for delivery and pick-up of equip
ment can be placed by phone by 
calling extension 480. Service is 
assured only if orders are placed 
at least 48 hours in advance.
Equipment and service are 
available at modest cost to or
ganizations meeting on campus.
Response To Problems 
Problems with equipment at 
such major functions as the 
Carnegie Conference prompted 
school officials to appropriate 
funds for a centralized visual aids 
service. According to Love, this 
initial budgeted amount was only 
a guess since no one knew how 
extensive the operation was going 
to be. Additional funds, totaling 
some $10,000, have been received 
from the government but Love 
feels that in the future larger 
sums will be needed if we want 
to grow.
A large proportion of the al
lotment, he explains has been 
spent in replacing such outmod
ed items as vintage 1928 movie 
projectors and lantern slide ma
chine that date back to Edison. 
With its new equipment and 
12 student operators, the center 
has provided such services as: 
taping concerts for the listening 
room in The Hunt Library; and 
providing the technical systems 
for Homecoming, Benjamin the 
Fairless lectures, and Freshman 
Camp.
An appreciative letter from last 
years Carnegie Conference offi
cials noted the overwhelming 
novelty of having everything 
work. Other thanks have come 
from the Pittsburgh Public 
Schools for whom the center has 
provided equipment.
And Love, who claims to be one 
of those few people who love their 
work, enthusiastically expresses 
the belief that his operation will 
grow.
RUGS $15 to $59
1000 9x120, 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15, 
etc. Also furniture discount to 4Q%
 5432 Walnut St.cnase s osDeaode
10-9 p.m. * 621-1025
PIZZERIAwith ttw flying Piiu
SPECIAL 
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG 682-8691
LEWIS
Salrs-Hfpai rs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO 
SUPPLIED 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Tuesday, January 10, 1967
Ceilidh Folk Music Series 
Shows Songs In Settings
Carnegie Ceilidh and the Pittsburgh Folklore Society 
will present the second program of its folk music series, an 
evening of folk music films on Friday, Jan. 20, at 8:80 pm 
in Porter Hall 100.
The last decade has seen a 
variety of interesting short films 
on the folk arts which put the 
music in perspective by placing 
it visually in its native setting, 
thus adding a further dimension 
to our appreciation of the tradi
tion.
Rich Variety of Settings
The film presented will include 
High Lonesome Sound, John Co
hens fine film on Kentucky moun
tain life, which features the sing
ing and banjo tunes of Roscoe 
Holcomb. The Country Fiddle, by 
Pete and Toshi Seeger examines 
the techniques of traditional fid
dlers by viewing the performers 
at an Oklahoma fiddling contest.
Wildwood Flower is a series 
of poetic images of forest wild 
flowers with a soundtrack of 
the Carter Family singing Wild
wood Flower. The Blues, pro
duced by Samuel Charters, is 
an important documentary of 
n ic ?.r  err onment of 
tne few surviving traditional 
blues singers from the South. 
The film features Furry Lewis, 
Gus Cannon, J. D. Short, Pink 
Anderson, Baby Tate, Memphis 
Willie B and Sleepy John 
Estes.
The street songs and games of 
Londons children are recorded 
in One Potato, Two Potato, made 
by Peter KennedyBritains own 
John Lomax. Leons Necklace re
tells a curious legend of the In
dians of British Columbia through 
their extraordinary carved wood
en masks.
Granton Trawler is John Grier
sons film study of dragnet fish
ing of the east coast of Scotland. 
The Old Amish People explores
BILL OLDAKOWSKI
(B.S. Industrial Admin.) of 
the Bethlehem Steel Loop 
Course knows where the 
action is. Hes on the 
move at our big, bustling 
Lackawanna Plant, near 
Buffalo, N.Y.
Join the action.
First step: pick up 
a copy of "Careers 
with Bethlehem Steel 
and the Loop Course 
at your placement 
office. Then sign up 
for a campus interview.
Our 1967 Loop Class 
has openings for technical 
and non-technical graduates 
(and post-grads) for 
careers in steel operations, 
research, sales, mining, 
accounting, and other 
activities.
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for 
Progress Program
BETHLEHEM 
STEEL
the structure and traditions of 
these remarkable people, as well 
as their chants and songs.
An admission charge of $1.50 
will be collected at the door. 
Subscriptions to the entire series 
will also be available. The stu
dent rate is $5.
Fahrenheit
(Continued from Page 5)
the old lady; and Cyril Cusack, 
the fire inspector; all quite satis
factorily.
Fahrenheit 451 is a fairy tale, 
or perhaps I should say a fable. 
Perhaps the film is only for peo
ple who love books, who find 
the image of The Brothers Kara
mazov or Lolita burning as mov
ing, as Joan at the stake. The 
film is currently being shown at 
the Shadyside Theatre.
>, On Campuswith
MaxShukan
(.By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!, 
Dobie Gillis, etc.)
ITS A NORTH WIND THAT BLOWS NO GOOD
Crushed between the twin millstones of January 
weather and final exams, you are saved from total des
pair, poor devils, only by the knowledge that winter vaca
tion will soon be here.
Where will you go this year? Will it be Florida again, 
or are you tired of jails? Then how about Puerto Rico?
A most excellent notion, say I. A balmy and bounteous 
island with long white beaches and blue, blue skies and 
green, healing seas. And, most pleasant of all, the warm 
and gracious people of Puerto Rico! You dont even have 
to know Spanish to communicate with this friendly folk. 
Just learn three simple phrases and you'll get along 
splendidly: Buenos dias which means Good morning, 
Gracias which means Thank you, and Que serd 
serd which means Your llama is.on my foot.
In order to help you enjoy the fabled land of Puerto 
Rico it would be well for me to supply a bit of historical, 
background. (It would also be well for me to say a few 
words about Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades be
cause the makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel 
Blades pay me to write this column and they are inclined 
to sulk if I omit to mention their product. Of course, they 
don't stay gloomy long, for they are kindly, cheery men 
fond of Morris dancing, spelling bees, and temperance 
punchfine, upright types, as true and gleaming and 
durable as the blades they make. And if youve tried 
Personnas, you know how true and gleaming and durable 
that is! And if you havent tried Personnas, poor devil, 
youve cheated both your purse and face, for Personna's 
last and last, shave after luxury shave, close, clean, nickless, backless, tugless, gougeless, scratchless, matchless. 
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades come in Double 
Edge or Injector style and are made only by the makers 
of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades.)
But I digress. Back to the history of Puerto Rico. The 
island was discovered by that popular discoverer Chris
topher Columbus. Incidentally, considering Columbus 
popularity, its odd we know so little about him. What do 
we really know? Only this:
He was born in Genoa on August 25, 1451, the son of 
Ralph T. Columbus, a knee-cymbal vendor, and Eleanor 
(Swifty) Columbus, a low hurdler. He was an only child 
except for his five brothers and eight sisters. From early 
childhood he was an avid reader and spent all his waking 
hours immersed in a book. Unfortunately, there was only 
one book in Genoa at the timeCare of the Horse by 
Aristotleand after 18 years of reading Care of the 
Horse, Columbus grew restless. When rumor reached 
him there was another book in Madrid, off he ran as fast 
as his little fat legs would carry him.
Disappointment, alas, awaited him there. The only book 
in Madrid was Cuidar un Cdballo, which proved to be noth
ing more than a Spanish translation of Care of the Horse.
Then one day Columbus heard from a traveller that 
there were millions of books in India, and he was in
stantly ablaze to set sail. Off he ran on his little fat legs 
to the court of Ferdinand and Isabella (Columbus, though 
more than six feet tall, was plagued with little fat legs 
all his life) and, as we all know, he persuaded the Span
ish rulers to outfit him with three stout ships, the Flopsy, 
the Mopsy, and the Cottontail, and the rest is history!
/-I Tg /,
Well sir, now you know all about the origins of Puerto 
Rico. So get packed and get going! Youll love it! Stroll the 
beaches, swim the coves, breathe the fragrance of hibiscus 
and bougainvillea. And remember always that the friendly 
Puerto Ricans are delighted to show you their customs, 
teach you their language. Why, Ill wager youll soon know 
far more Spanish than the three basic phrases. Youll know 
Hasta la vista which means See you later.Porfdvor 
which means Please, and El tren se par en las esta
cin which means Your llama has eaten my passport.
* * * 1966. 11 SholmanGracias from the makers of Personna for giving our 
blades such a cordial reception, and, por fvor, hoto 
about trying another of our luxury shaving products 
 Burma Shave, regular or menthol?
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for seniors and Graduates in
CHEMICAL,
MECHANICAL,
ELECTRICAL, 
and INDUSTRIAL 
ENGINEERING
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
FEBRUARY 7, 1967
Appointments should be 
made in advance through 
your College Placement 
Office.
An equal opportunity employer
Putting Ideas to Work in 
0 Machinery . . . Chemicals . . . Defense . . . Fibers and Films
orkr Cn tiu 
es OrNw Lre gsR 
eOksRLO
alFmgrSk rASan
(When you cant afford to be dull)
Twenty-five cents is 
what you get back on the purchase of any size package of NoDoz Keep 
Alert Tablets or new Chewable Mints. Safe as 
coffee, NoDoz helps 
restore your mental 
vitality at a time when you really cant afford 
to be dull.
NoDoz wont make you a genius. But it will help 
bring you back to your
When you cant afford to be 
dull, sharpen your wits with 
NoDoz... mail us the front 
from any size NoDoz 
package and well return 
251 to you.
mental best... it will 
aid your concentration 
and intellectual effort 
through hours of 
studying.
So go ahead, sharpen 
your wits with NoDoz. 
Help restore your mental 
vitality, pass your exams, then mail us the 
front panel or label from any size package of 
NoDoz* with this coupon. And well mail you a 
quarter (25*i) in return.
(A little extra cash for your 
post-exams party)
Tablets or new Chewable Mints
But hurry, offer ends Feb. 28. No refunds after March 7,1967. Mail coupon today!
T  
i.
Bristol-Myers/Grove Division, P.O. Box 4808, Clinton, Iowa 52732
'Enclosed is (check one): ? Wrapper from NoDoz Mints, or ? Front 
panel from package of 15 or 36 NoDoz Tablets, or ? Front label 
from oottle of 60 NoDoz Tablets.
Please return 25 cents (one quarter) to:
Name--------------------------------------------------------------------------
AddressCity______-State______Zip Code.Offer void without this coupon.

---------------------------------------------------

'Tuesday, January 10,1967  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
 P
Montag in Bookland ...
Fahrenheit 541
by Stan Thomas
FAHRENHEIT 451 is a fairy tale for the literal-minded, and un
less books mean almost as much to you as people, the film is going 
to be a bother and somewhat of a bore. Truffaut has made a film 
that will not bring a non-reader to the realization that a world 
without books is a nightmare, but instead a film that will rouse a 
reader to the realization that the modem world is oriented around 
visual media, much to the detriment of the printed word. The fright
ful thing about 451 is not only the underground status of books, but 
the total disappearance of the written word: personnel files are a 
ueries of photographs and numbers; newspapers are little more than 
comic pages without the dialog balloons. Images have replaced the 
word. This is Truffauts basis for his film adaption of the novel by 
Ray Bradbury.
Tho film begins without the traditional printed credits, but a 
voice announces them to the audience, while the images on the screen 
are the antennas us ad to usher electronic images into the homes of 
this world of the future. In fact, the one time we are asked to read 
in the film is also the first time Montag, the hero, reads a book. The 
book is David Copperfield; the first line is I am born.
THE PLOT OF THE FILM deals with some future society where 
books are banned because they make man unhappy. Firemen have 
switched their interests from preventing fires to preventing people 
from harboring books, which they burn when they find. Montag is 
a fireman hunting out books and burning them. One day on the 
monorail, Clarrice, a teacher, asks Montag if he ever reads the 
books he bums. This question haunts Montag until he does read a 
book which results in his fugitive escape to a Waldenlike setting, 
where he lives among the Book-People who commit books to memory 
so that the worlds literature will not be lost.
Truffauts double casting of Julie Christie as both Montags 
wife, Linda, and his savior, Clarrice, is one instance of the im
portance of the image. This identity is given more depth when 
an old lady found harboring a library book strongly resembles an aged 
Clarice. This woman burns with her books in a sequence which 
is the climax of the film; after this experience Montag cannot put 
away his books. Our hero ends up quite literally fighting fire with 
fire.
TRUFAUTS WORLD OF THE FUTURE is not the brauvara sci
entific world of Faniastic Voyage, but a world that somehow is the 
decaying remains of a once great civilization. We are not picked 
up and tossed into c.n alien future, but instead rudely pushed for
ward a few decades into what could be our future. Gadgetry is 
not on Truffauts mind and the shortcomings of this film all seem 
to center around bouts v/ith machinery that the director loses. The 
film is in color, appropriately brown-gray color except for the 
flashing red fire engine and the jets of flame turning the books 
into black ash. The books become personalities in this film as much 
as the actors do. Osker Werner portrays Montag; Beel Duffel, 
(Continued on Page 4)
$ 1 ILooking For Self-Fulfillment? 
Sherut LaAm  Israel 
May Be Your Answer
I am a graduate  undergraduate (underline 
one) between 1930 and would like you to 
send me, without obligation, FREE information 
telling how I can serve a full year in Israel for 
only $670 which includes round trip fare (A lim
ited number of long-term loans are available). 
I understand a knowledge of Hebrew is not a 
prerequisite.
Name (please print)
1
Major Field of Study
1
College or University
11 Street Address 
1
Phone (optional)
1 City 
1
StateZip
Last year, thousands of lawyers, bankers, accountants, engineers, doctors and businessmen went back to college.
And not just for the football games.
Wed like to clear up what appears to be a 
misunderstanding. It is somewhat popular 
on campus to decry a business career on 
the grounds that you stop learning once 
you start working for Clich Nuts & Bolts. 
That idea is groundless.
We cant speak for Clich, but we can 
for ourselvesWestern Electric, the man
ufacturing and supply unit of the Bell Sys
tem. 6 out of 10 college graduates who have 
joined us over the past 10 years, for exam
ple, have continued their higher education. 
Howre these for openers:
W.E.s Tuition Refund Plan lets em
ployees pursue degrees while work
ing for us. Over 6 thousand have at
tended schools in 41 states under 
this plan. We refund more than $1 
million in tuition costs to employees 
a year.
To name another program: advanced 
engineering study, under the direc
tion of Lehigh University, is con
ducted at our Engineering Research
Center in Princeton, N. J. Selected 
employees are sent there from all 
over the country for a years concen
trated study leading to a masters 
degree.
You get the idea. Were for more learn
ing in our business. After all, Western 
Electric doesnt make buggy whips. We 
make advanced communications equip
ment. And the Bell telephone network will 
need even more sophisticated devices by 
the time your fifth reunion rolls around. 
The state of the art, never static, is where 
the action is.
At Western Electric, whats happening 
is the excitement and satisfaction of con
tinued doing and learning. If this happens 
to appeal to you, no matter what degree 
youre aiming for, check us out. And grab 
a piece of the action.Western Electric
MANUFACTURING 4 SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM
For '67...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M. W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer 
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Tuesday, January 10, 1967Tartans Get Revenge; 
Down W & J in Overtime
by Jim Janke
Carnegie Tech, seeking revenge for an 11 point loss at the .hands of Washington 
and Jefferson last mqnth, defeated the Pres idents in overtime last Saturday, after suf
fering a 68- 64 loss to Grove City earlier in the week, and brought their record to three
wins and five losses. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Grove City beat Carnegie Tech 
in a poorly-played game on both 
sides last week, but the visitors 
came out on top, 68-64. Although 
CIT fought back hard during the 
first half and was able to keep 
the Wolverines to a 33-31 halftime edge, their lack of rebound
ing strength and poor shooting 
discipline hurt the Tech attack.
With 14 minutes remaining in 
the game, CIT got the lead for 
the first time in the second half 
when Don Keefer put in a re
bound to make the score 42-41.
From then until only nine and 
one-half minutes remained, the 
lead switched hands four times, 
but when Mark Lang committed 
his fourth foul, the Wolverines 
began to make their move. With 
Cochran getting the crucial re
bounds to give GCC possession 
and Pollock tapping in two on 
the offensive boards, the Grovers 
built a 62-57 lead with only 3:25 
left. CIT never got closer than 
four points after that. It took a 
30-foot set shot by Techs Eckhardt at the buzzer to make the 
score 68-64.
Tech was hampered through
out the game by fouls. Grove 
City was able to miss 17 of 39 
free throws and still win. But of 
more importance was the long 
lay-off which made CIT a rusty 
team throughout the game, to the 
point of taking many outside 
shots with nobody on the offen
sive boards. The rebound totals 
tell the story.
While the first game last week 
was marked by a lack of coordin
ation in offensive attack, the CITW&J clash proved to be the op
posite. Although the Tartans built 
a considerable lead early in the 
game on the shooting of Jetl 
Kalin, Mark Lang, and Don Keef
er, and led at halftime, 40-26, a 
full-court press and a resulting 
eight CIT turnovers in the first 
6:39 of the second half, made 
the score 43-43 and the situation 
apparently very tight. The Presi
dents Orwig and Marshall com
bined both in scoring and re
bounds to give W&J a 57-52 lead 
with 8:15 remaining in the game. 
But after blowing such a big 
lead so quickly, the Tartan team 
was not going to give up. Jeff 
Kalin and Mark Lang combined 
to tie the score, 60-60, with 5:04 
left. But when Don Keefer com
mitted his' fourth foul and less 
than 20 seconds later Neil Houser 
fouled out of the gamethe sit
uation for CiT was far from rosy. 
Houser was out, and three of the 
other starters had four fouls on 
them (Kalin only had one). Then 
Evans sunk a bucket for W&J 
with 0:21 left to put them up 
68-66, but Orwig missed a free 
throw (which lost W&J the 
game). Mark Lang tipped in an 
offensive rebound with only three 
seconds left and the game after 
regulation time ended with the 
score tied, 68-68.
Marshall was first to score forCITFG FT Rbs. PF Pts.
W&J in the five-minute overtime,Kalin789222
but Don Keefer sunk a set shotLang837419
and two free throws and JeffBurdett33749
Kalin two free throws to makeKeefer1023422
the score 74-70, CIT leading. OrHouser10452
wig and Mark Lang each scoredMeister21025
two points but with 30 secondsHummel00010
left, John Meister scored on a____-
breakaway shot to ice the game 
with the score 78-72. The final
Totals3117302279
was CIT 79, W&J 74.Half time 
26.
score:CIT 40, W&J
W&J standouts were Jack Hous
er, who sparked the comeback 
rally tarly in the second half 
with his sparkling ball handling 
and shooting, and the trio of 
Marshall, Anderson, and Orwig 
whc had 25 rebounds and and 44 
points among them. For CIT, 
Kalin, Lang, and Keefer got most 
of the points, but Neil Houser and 
Ray Burdett did extremely well 
defensing Jack Houser of W&J. 
Neither of those men was cover
ing J. Houser when he sparked 
the W&J comeback which al
most succeeded.
Grove CityFG FT Rbs. PF Pts.
Drew24418
Childs10122
Claypoole768320
Cochran379413
Pollock6115513
Bratt04114
Meyers40118
Hersey00310
Wilson00100
Zeigler00000
Totals2322431868
CITFG FT Rbs. PF Pts.
Kalin8011416
Keefer826218
Burdett32758
Lang436411
Houser11253
Meister22136
Weborg0000O
Eckhardt10012
Totals2710332464
Halftime score: Grove City 33, 
CIT 31.
FG percentages; Grove City 
37.7 per cent, CIT 36.0 per cent. 
FT percentages: Grove City 56.4 
per cent, CIT 62.9 per cent.
Preliminary: CIT JV 79, Greensburg Blue Dell 36.
W&JFG FT RBs. PF Pts.
J. Houser502410
Smith20054
Marshall54104 14
Orwig9110319
Anderson435311
Evans24108
Kirby21215
Hinkle01211
Judd10002
Totals3014322174
Airplane to Florida 
Semester Break 
Low Cost 
Call 683-3584
FG percentages: CIT 51 per 
cent, W&J 42.8 per cent.
FT percentages: CIT 68 per 
cent, W&J 53.8 per cent.
Preliminary: CIT JV 71, W&J 
JV 59.
Residence of Distinction
ONE ROOM Kitchenette 
equipped, and bath, beauti
fully furnished  $155. up.
?
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very 
attractively furnished, $275. 
up.
?
Also . . . UNFURNISHED 1 
and 3 ROOM APARTMENTS, 
when available.
?
FAIRFAX HOTEL
4614 5th AVE. Phone: 621-4030
CAREERS 
IN STEEL
Our representative 
will be on campus
FEB. 16, 17
to interview undergraduate 
and graduate candidates for 
Bethlehems 67 Loop Course 
our highly regarded 
management training 
program
OPPORTUNITIES are 
available in steel plant oper
ations, sales, research, min
ing, accounting, and other 
activities.
DEGREES required are 
mechanical, metallurgical, 
electrical, chemical, indus
trial, civil, mining, and 
other engineering special
ties; also chemistry, phy
sics, mathematics, business 
administration, accounting 
and liberal arts.
If you would like to discuss 
your career interest with a 
Bethlehem representative, 
see your placement officer 
to arrange for an interview 
appointment.
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer in the Plans for 
Progress Program
BETHLEHEM
STEEL
Between Classes or at Study Break j
-SCOTTY'S- I
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
v ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
You're under 25but CAM drive like an expert.
Why should CAM have to pay 
extra for Your car insurance?
Sentry says you may 
not have to. A simple 
questionnaire could save 
you up to $50 or more.
Call the Sentry man 
for fast facts.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE.
 795-1393
WorkCn tk irWuCerso
The front wheels on the MG Sports Sedan do all the work. They 
pull. They steer. They cling to the road like cleats. They serve up fast, safe, disc-brake stops.
The front wheels are where the power is. MGs front wheel 
drive takes the Sports Sedan straight as a string to where you direct it.
The front wheels are where the weight is. MG's competitionproved engine is up forward where it ought to be...and where its poundage delivers extra traction, even on tricky surfaces.
True, the rear wheels help support the car. But it is the front 
wheels that tell them what to doas part of MG's rugged Hy- drolastic (liquid) Suspension System. They actually telegraph 
news of road conditions to the rear wheels, so you stay on the level, no matter what.
What does it add up to? Simply this: no car is 
more roadworthy than the Sports Sedan. It holds 
steady and true, in spite of slick, snow, breeze and 
bumps. Most reassuring, whether you drive for the 
sport or for the family (of five).
Incidentally, the modest price includesall 5 wheels.
SEE THK 
SPORTS SEDAN AH
LOMBARD MOTORS
authorized Sales-Service-Parts 
3900 Northern Pike, Monroevilfe
Phone: 372-2022
