TARTAN
Volume 66  Number 8Wednesday, November 2, 1946
David E. Lilienthal 
Fairless Lecturer
iodicals as the New York Times 
Magazine and Atlanta Monthly.
Previous speakers in the lec
ture series at Carnegie Tech were 
Dr. Gabriel Hauge, president of 
the Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
Co., New York; Dr. Theodore O. 
Yntema, former vice president of 
Ford Motor Co., and Dr. Arthur 
F. Burns, president of the Na
tional Bureau of Economic Re
search.
Fairless Series Views 
Managerial Humanism
One of America's foremost executives, David E. Lilien
thal, will examine managerial life in America as a humanist 
art at the 1966 series of Benjamin F. Fairless Lectures to be 
held at Carnegie Tech November 3, 7, and 8. Mr. Lilienthal 
is currently chairman and chief executive officer of Devel
opment and Resources Corporation, a world-wide firm pro
viding services for development of natural resources.
In the three lectures, each beginning at 5 pm in Skibo Ball
room, Mr. Lilienthal will con
centrate on the importance of 
the managers evolving function 
and future role in public affairs, 
the sciences, overseas develop
ment, and private business.
The series will emphasize 
the art of getting things done, 
but the focus will be on the 
manager as a leader, accord
ing to Mr. Lilienthal. The talks 
are expected to produce healthy 
controversy, because what I 
shall say is, I believe, a neces
sary corrective to some of the 
extremes to which some of my 
managerial brethren have gone, 
and will expose me, as I shall 
be, to the questioning and criti
cism which I hope will make 
the discussion that much more 
lively and useful.
Mr. Lilienthal will be the 
fourth Fairless lecture. Each year, 
an internationally-known figure 
from business, government or 
education is invited to discuss 
some aspect' of business or pub
lic administration, relationships 
between business and govern
ment, management and labor, or 
a subject relating to themes of 
preserving economic freedom, 
human liberty and strengthen
ing individual enterprise.
Memorial To Fairless
The annual lecture series,
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, is held as a me
morial to Benjamin F. Fairless, 
president of United States Steel 
Corporation for 15 years, and 
chairman of the board from 1952 
until his retirement in 1955. Mr.
Fairless served on Techs board 
of trustees from 1952 until his 
death.
For his three lectures, Mr.
Lilienthal will draw, in part, 
from his own experience in pub
lic and industrial administra
tion.
He was chairman of the 
Atomic Energy Commission 
from 1946 to 1950. Previously 
he was chairman of the U.S.
State Department Board of 
Consultants on International 
Control of Atomic Energy. He 
was a founding director of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority 
and was chairman from 1941 
to 1946. In addition, he has 
been a member of the Rocke
feller Public Service Awards 
Committee, Council on Foreign 
Relations, Inc., and vice chair
man of the Planned Parent
hood Federation.
As an author, Mr. Lilienthal 
has contributed the Journals of 
David E. Lilienthal, Volumes I,
II, III (the most recent volume 
having been published this 
month); Change, Hope, and the 
Bomb, (1963); TVA: Democ
racy on the March, (1944); Big 
Business: A new Era, (1953), 
and This I Do Believe, (1949).
Articles by Mr. Lilienthal have 
appeared in such major U.S. perSlide Rule Classes
Tau Beta Pi, national engi
neering honorary, will sponsor 
slide rule instruction at 4:30 pm. 
today and tomorrow in DH 2210. 
Basic scales will be discussed 
today and log-log scales tomor
row.
H&SS Questions Remain; 
Student Opinions Sought
Students ideas are being solicited as part of the planning for the new College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences at Carnegie University. Dr. Erwin R. Steinberg, Dean of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College and Dean of the Division of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, requests that any students with ideas on the formation of the proposed lib
eral arts college write them out and leave them in his office, Margaret Morrison 107,
or send them through campus mail.
Grants Support 
Science Research
Three Carnegie Tech professors 
have received federal grants for 
the continuation of research pro
jects.
Dr. Robert J. Kurland, asso
ciate professor of chemistry, will 
carry out Carbon-13 Nuclear 
Magnetic Resonance Studios of 
Triphenyl Carbonium Ions with a 
$12,880 grant from the National 
Institutes of Health.
Dr. Edward J. Green, assistant 
professor of geochemistry, chem
istry, and earth and astronomical 
sciences, will direct the research 
project Development of a Coulometric Method for the Measure
ment of Dissolved Oxygen in Sea 
Water. The National Science 
Foundation has awarded a grant 
of $36,400 for this project involv
ing fundamental electrochemical 
studies of aqueous solutions of 
gases.
Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, psycho
logist, has been awarded a total 
cf $40,200 by the National Science 
Foundation for a projected twoyear study of the role of the hip
pocampus in motivation using neuroanatomical techniques and be
havioral testing procedures.
Playhouse Reduces Rates 
For Student Theater-Goers
The Pittsburgh Playhouse at Craft Avenue and Hamlet 
Street in Oakland has announced discount student and student-group rates for all performances.
Artistic Director John Hancock,
in his first year in Pittsburgh 
after directing the well-known 
San Francisco Actors Work
shop, outlined the purpose of 
student rates. The Playhouse is 
.... the only professional resi
dent theater within a 100-mile 
radius of Pittsburgh. Within that 
area there are thousands and 
thousands of college students to 
whom we have a responsibility 
to provide interesting theater as 
part of their educational develop
ment. My play selection for the 
1966-67 season, I believe, ful
fills that aim. I want the stuTartan
Photographers
Weekly meetings of the Tar
tan Photography Staff will 
be held on Mondays at 4:30 
in room 50, Skibo. Please at
tend.
dents to feel that this is their 
theater.
In addition to the student rates 
are Twelfth Night parties given 
after the twelfth performance of 
each production, and the Sun
day at Ten series given the 
third Sunday of each perform
ance. During both of these gath
erings the director and the cast 
discuss the play with interested 
members of the audience.
Student tickets may be ob
tained through the Playhouse 
box office by phoning 621- 
4445. Group arrangements may 
be made by phoning 621-4445, 
Ext. 70.
The schedule for current pro
ductions is the following:
Brechts A Mans a Man plays 
Tuesday through Friday at 8:30, 
Saturday at 7 and 10 and Sun
day at 7:30; Tennessee Williams 
Streetcar Named Desira can be 
seen Tuesday through Saturday 
at 8:30 and Sunday at 7:30 with 
a 2 pm Wednesday matinee.
Baker Selects 
Carnival Aides
Steve Baker, chairman of the 
Spring Carnival Committee for
1967, has announced the selection 
of committee members. They are: 
Vice-chairman  Arleigh Hei
fer; Entertainment  Will An
derson; Sweepstakes  Michael 
Smolens; MidwayA1 Witchner; 
Call Day  Bill Patula; Talent 
Show  Bernie Dobroski; Egg 
Toss and Plank Joust  Rich 
Steffens; Sorority EventsCarol 
Sue Joffe; Queen Presentation 
Ginny Cannon; Publicity  Bill 
Benthall; TicketsBill Fallon; 
Secretary  Sue Ward; and 
TreasurerChuck Schoenfeldt.
This committee is charged by 
Executive Council of Student Gov
ernment with the responsibility 
for organizing Techs annual allcampus spring weekend. Carnival 
this year will be held May 5, 6, 
and 7.
Members of the Tech commun
ity who want to help in the plan
ning of Carnival 67 are urged to 
seek out the appropriate person 
on the committee.
Tartan Asks 
Cooperation 
In Coverage
The Tartan news staff 
seeks the cooperation of 
student organizations to 
get more thorough cover
age of campus news. 
Heads of all student clubs, 
religious groups, honoraries, social fraternities, etc. 
are asked to appointed 
someone in their organiza
tion as a Tartan liason.
This person should contact 
the Tart&n any time the group 
is planning something it deems 
newsworthy or something of 
interest to the general stu
dent community.
News for each Wednesdays 
Tartan must be submitted by 
4 pm the preceding Sunday. 
Stories should be submitted 
Thursday evening, though, if 
possible. This gives the print
er more time to work and also 
allows the Tartan to fol
low up any item of partic
ular interest.
Students can deliver news 
items in person at the TAR
TAN office, Skibo 59, on 
Thursday evening or Sunday 
afternoon. News can also be 
sent to Box C through cam
pus mail or left in the TAR
TANS mail box to Skibo 1*3.
For further information 
call News Editor, Mike Vargo 
at 351-1036 or at Pi Kappa Al
pha Fraternity.
Steinberg says, it is impor
tant for the student to think 
through his relationship with the 
University (especially since a 
new university is being planned) 
and understand what it means to 
be a student, what other students 
in other universities are doing, 
and what the students role is in 
a university.
Carnegie Tech now has a col
lege of liberal arts and social 
science for women only, Mar
garet Morrison, and a non-de
gree-granting Division of Human
ities and Social Science for En
gineering and Science students. 
The structures and purposes of 
both Margaret Morrison and the 
Division of H & SS will have 
to be redefined when a coeduca
tional, degree-granting liberal 
arts college is instituted at Car
negie University.
The Humanities and Social 
Sciences faculty has had a ser
ies of departmental meetings to 
define departmental positions 
on the new college.
Mass meetings of Margaret 
Morrison faculty and H & SS 
Faculty are currently being held 
to define and explore problems 
concerning the liberal arts school.
Core Program 
One of the chief problems to 
be explored is a core program 
for the new collegea central 
set of courses to be offered. Oth
er topics for discussion are how 
other branches of the university 
would contribute to this core 
program and how other branches 
would be served by the core 
program.
These problems were posed in 
a memo issued earlier this month 
by Dr. A Leslie Derfer, history 
Professor and chairman of the H
& SS faculty.
The English Department is con
sidering questions on the new 
college such as: what emphasis 
is to be placed on professional 
education? What is meant by a 
liberal-professional education? Is 
the traditional departmental ma
jor the best way of achieving a 
liberal education?
Should the humanities be 
linked with the social sciences 
or with the pure sciences? 
What is to be the role of teach
er training in shaping the edu
cational program in English? 
What is to be the character of 
the graduate program? 
Carnegie Techs board of trus
tees will meet in January to re
view tentative plans for Carnegie 
University. There should be def
inite, substantial news on the H
& SS college before this meet
ing, according to Edward R. 
Schatz, Vice-president for Aca
demic Affairs.
Legal Merger by July 
Schatz says Carnegie Tech an<^ 
Mellon Institute will hopefully 
be legally merged by July 1, 19- 
67. Tech will then be a Univer
sity in the legal sense.
The first male freshman in 
Humanities and Social Sciences
(Continued on Pag# 2)

---------------------------------------------------

Unsurpassed Grace 
of Margot Fonteyn
Incomparable Artistry 
of Rudolf Nureyev
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE
for this
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT
BEST SEATS!
Eve. $3.50 (Save $2.00) Mat. $2.50 (Save $1.50) 
REGISTER NOW FOR TICKETS
MAIN DESK - SKIBO 
OFFER GOOD UNTIL NOV.9 !
...............................................*
FULL-PRICE TICKETS ON SALE: All National Record Marts, J 
Horn*, Gimbel's, and Pitt Book Store. 4
PENN
THEATRE
tfc & fmmi, Downtowa M40NC: 241-4443
MATINEE:
Ore*. $4.00; & Mm. $3.00lolcooy $2.50 & $1.50
EVENING:
Ore*. $5.50; U. I Men. $4.50 IoIcmv $3.50 $ $2.50
Tartan Interview ...
Rivals Director Considers 
Place Of College Theater
by Stan Thomas
Now that Ive done The Rivals 
here at Techand I dont say I 
know everything about The Ri
vals even nowId like to do it 
in New York with Hermione Gingold, Bert Lahr, and Zero Mostel 
. . . Word Baker, currently on 
the faculty of the Tech Drama 
Department and director of the 
production of The Rivals which 
just ended its run in the Fine 
Arts Theatre last Saturday night, 
paused and we listened to the ap
plause at the end of a scene. I 
interviewed him for the Tartan 
during, the Saturday matinee three 
days after the show opened.
What I would like to do now 
is to open the show again in a 
year or so and then we would all 
learn something about The Rivals. 
I think if a show is good it shouldbe done again; not just this year, 
but next year and the year after 
that. With a different cast and 
director? No, the same cast, di
rector, costumesthe same pro
duction. And when the seniors 
graduate, move those in smaller 
parts into the leads, and then by 
the time a freshman graduates 
he knows The Rivals. Mr. Baker 
added that he was just using his 
production as an example, but
felt this should be done with any 
successful show. And unsuccessful 
shows? Well, the good thing 
about repertory is that if a show 
doesnt work, you just let it slip 
away.
I then asked Mr. Baker how 
he felt university theatre fit into 
the entire theatrical spectrum: A 
university theatre is the place 
where things should come from. 
Everything should be tried here to 
see if it works. New things should 
happen. Nuclear fission came out 
of the University of Chicago and 
the Salk vaccine came from a 
university; well, this is the type 
of thing we should be doing. 
Theres no place else to do it 
now. Off Broadway is just like 
Broadway. When off Broadway 
was doing the Avant Garde Ab(Continued on Page 10)
Weklymti
 TONIGHT AT 8:30 
Last Two CRAFT
Weeks THEATER
A Comedy with Music
A MAN'S 
A MAN
Performances: Tues. thru Sat. at 9:30 
Sun. at 7:30Sat. at 7:00 & 10:00
Streetcar Tickets
A Streetcar Named Desire
by TENNESSEE WILLIAMS, will be 
performed by the drama department 
November 19, 21, 22, 28-30, and 
December 13. Student tickets will 
be given out November 8 at 4 pm 
in the College of Fine Arts.
Steinberg ? ? from Page 1)
should enter in the fall of 1968.
Several men in Mathematics 
and Physics are currently taking 
double majors and will grad
uate with English degrees as well 
as scientific degrees.
Also, freshmen and sophomore 
men in E and S or Fine Arts can, 
with approval from their Dean, 
transfer, to the English Depart
ment and obtain an English de
gree from the Division of Human
ities and Social Sciences.
HELP1
CAMERA STORE
Needs Part Time Salesman 
Must Know Cameras
FOTO SHOP
O
5854 Forbes Avenue 
421-7700
2nd HAMLET
Week THEATER
Pulitzer Prize DramaA Streetcar 
Named Desire
Performances: Tues. fhru Sat. at 9:20 
Sun. at 7:30 Matinee Wed. at 2:00 

All seats: $3.30 Sun. thru Frl.
4.40 Sat.
Students: all seats, $1.50 Sun. 
thru Fri.$2.00 Sat. 
RESERVATIONS 621-4445
The PITTSBURGH 
PLAYHOUSE
Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. 
PITTSBURGH, PA (15213)
Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, November 2, 1966
^ *}]ew profeAAional Resident Company, 
lyjnder the 2birrection of
JOHN HANCOCK
PRESENTS
CRAFT AVENUE THEATER HAMLET STREET THEATER
 A MAN'S A MAN  A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE
 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM  THE ENTERTAINER
 THREE SISTERS  HAPPY DAYS
 ST. JOAN OF THE STOCKYARDS  ORIGINAL PLAY
 OH WHAT A LOVELY WAR  PELLEAS AND MELISANDE
Performances: Tuesday thru Saturday at 8:30  Sunday Evening at 7:30.
Wednesday Matinee at 2:00
STUDENT DISCOUNT
1 JOSEPH K. LEVINE prcsents-A Paul Czinner Production1 THE ROYAL BALLET.,...COLORI
MARGOT FONTEYN RUDOLF NUREYEV
[ ROMEO And JULIET I
ONE PE
Matinees (Wednesday,
I MATINEES 'mm
Wednesday ...............52.00
Sat., Sun. & Holt... $2 50
RFORMANCE NIGHTLY AT 8:30 PM
Saturday, Sunday and Holidays) at 2:00 PM 
^ ALL SEATS RESERVED 
 MAMTITN
dKpj A*1 fjljlj Mon., thru Thurs.......$2.50 S
Sat-' Sun.........$3-00 H
REGULAR RATE DISCOUNT RATE
WEDNESDAY MATINEE........................................................ $3.30 $1.50
SUNDAY TO FRIDAY EVENING............................................ $3 30 $1 50
SATURDAY EVENING........................................................... $4 4Q $2 00
OTHER RATES
SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FOR GROUPS OF 10 OR MORE 
DINNER and SHOW - 10 OR MORE - $4.50 TO $5.00 
PREVIEWS-$1.00
The PLAYHOUSE  craft ave. at hamlet st.  021-4445

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 2, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
Virgil Thomson
Tartan Photo by John Mera
Tuesdays Assembly Speaker
Virgil Thomson, presently serving on the Tech faculty 
as visiting Andrew Mellon Professor of Music, will deliver 
the assembly talk this coming Tuesday, November 8. The 
assembly will be held in Skibo ballroom at 11:30.
In anticipation of hisaddress
this Tuesday, the Tartan called 
on Mr. Thomson to find out about 
the man and to get a preview of 
what he is to discuss. Mr. Thom
son, who is best known as a composer and author having just com
pleted his autobiography, Virgil 
Thomson, began the interview by 
telling us the title of his talk will 
be the Role of the University in 
the Creative Arts. Although Mr. 
Thomson did not care to discuss 
his talk too greatly for fear of 
letting the cat out of the bag, 
we did find out about him and 
some of his opinions on various 
topics. For all of 70 years, Mr. 
Thomson is still a dynamic per
son with definite opinions on vir
tually every subject; but unlike 
many men, his opinions are tem
pered with a knowledge of the 
subject he discusses. Mr. Thom
son told as that he was in the 
First World War with Harry Tru
man; Truman was a captain and 
Mr. Thomson was a private. Fur
ther, he added that his acquain
tance with Mr. Truman had be
gun before this when he had at
tended musicals at which Tru
man had entertained with his 
piano playing. Thomson, however, 
refused to comment on Mr. Tru
mans piano prowress. The former 
President is not by any means 
the limit of Mr. Thomsons ac
quaintances; among the many 
noted people Mr. Thomson has 
known are Gertrude Stein and 
George Antheil.
After asking Mr. Thomson about 
his work at Tech which includes 
teaching two coursesForm and 
Interpretation and a seminar in 
musicology  the conversation
When You Must Keep Alert
When you cant afford to be drowsy, 
inattentive, or anything less than all 
there. .. heres how to stay on top. 
VEflV Continuous Action Alertness 
Capsules deliver the awakeness of 
two cups of coffee, stretched out 
up to six hours. Safe [f/~l
and non-habit-forming. KW/i
I W
VFRUm
turned to the condition of the sym
phony orchestras in the United 
States. Mr. Thomson feels that 
the symphony is the child of the 
business community and that it is 
dominated by them. Further, he 
feels that the symphony has not 
been properly brought to the vast 
majority of the people. To suc
cessfully bring the symphony to 
the people, the performers must 
be residents of the community 
(Continued on Page 9)
Hall Auditorium. Professor Julius 
Ashkin, head of the Physics De
partment, and other members of 
the faculty will be present to dis
cuss graduate schools and answer 
any specific questions. In addition, 
copies of a recent survey which 
rated graduate school programs 
and faculty will be supplied for 
anyone who is interested in apulying to graduate schools. New 
AIP members and anyone inter
ested in graduate schools are in
vited to attend. Refreshments will 
be served.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Dometic 
Tobaceos H in the City
Nationally
Advertised
MARVINS OF SQUIRREL HILL
Home of Quality Men's Wear - 5842 Forbes Avenue
LOST OUR LEASE
MUST VACATE 9
- Savings to 50% and More-a
Regardless of Cost Our Entire Inventory Must Be Sold At Once
FAMOUS BRAND MEN'S
SUITS  COATS
NEW FABRICS FROM WORLD'S LEADING MILLS INCLUDING SILK SHARK
SKINS, IMPORTED MOHAIRS, VESTED TRADITIONALS, HERRINGBONES, 
SOLIDS, STRIPES, PLAIDS, HOPSACKS, WHIPCORDS, CHEVIOTS. SIZES TO FIT 
ANY MAN 34 TO 52, REGULARS, SHORTS, LONGS, EXTRA LONGS, PORTLYS
COMP. VAL. TO $95
$384858
100% Cashmere Overcoats ino $68
BECAUSE OF THESE DRASTIC REDUCTIONS - NO ALTERATIONS - NO DELIVERIES
SELECT GROUP  SELECT GROUP NEWEST TAIL MENS  IMPORTED ALL WOOLSPORTS
COATSComp to $55$22-$33
SLACKS
SELECT GROUP OBLON PILE ZIP LINED
RAINCOATS
THESE ARE ONLY A FEW OF THt MANY, MANY OUTSTANDING VALUES
FAMOUS MAKER
DRESS
SHIRTS
FAMOUS LABELSWEATERSTHANE HIMALAYA LORD JEFF DRUMMOND ALPS KANDAHAR 
Vdh to $19 50
$ C\85 $|
SPORT
SHIRTS
Val to $10
$Q85
COME EARLY! TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR COMPLETE SELECTION WHILE IT LASTS
SILK TIES I HOSE  TOILETRIES | LEATHER BELTS
Vi OFF I V? OFF I Vi OFF I V2 OFF
CITY OF PGH. LICENSE #824 - EXP. NOV. 22, 1966 
EXTRA SALES HELP TO SERVE YOU
MARVINS
OPEN MON. THRU 
THURS. TILL 9 P.M. 
FRI. & SAT.
TILL 6 P.M.
5842 FORBES AVE., SQUIRREL HILL
We Honor Mellon and Pittsburgh National Credit Cards
vember 2, at 8 pm in the Scaife
A Honda will circumvent parking lots and take 
you directly to your destination. And, youll have 
a lot more fun getting there. As for economy, 
prices start about $215*! And you'll meet the 
nicest people!
Free Brochure; Write American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Department C-6, Box 50, Gardena, California  1966 AHM
plus dealers transportation and set-up charges
Virgil Thomson Speaks 
On University And Arts
Grad School Info
The American Institute of Phy
sics will hold its annual graduate 
school meeting on Wed., NoGet 
closer 
with a
HONDA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, November 2, 1966
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendel
MUSIC . . .
Russian Orthodox Archdiocese: Russian Cathedral Choir from St. 
Nicholas Church in Donora. Rev. Igor Soroka, conductor. Car
negie Music Hall, Saturday, November 5, 8:30 pm. Tickets $2.
Calvary Episcopal Church: Diocesan Choir Festival. Donald Wilk
ins, conductor. Sunday, November 6, 8 pm. Free.
Tuesday Musical Club: Program to be announced. Stephen Foster 
Memorial. Tuesday, November 8, 1:30 pm. Open to members 
arid guests.
DRAMA . . .
A Mans A Man, John Hancock. Slapstick and 1920s songs rolled into 
a black comedy of terrors. 8:30 pm, Tuesday thru Friday; Sat
urday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. Information at 62i4445, Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. Admission 
$3.30.
Streetcar Named Desire, John Hancock. Tennessee Williams haunt
ing story of a beautiful woman betrayed by love. 8:30 pm, Tues
day thru Friday; Saturday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 
pm. Hamlet Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse. Information at 621- 
4445. Admission $3.30. Starts October 21.
LECTURES . . .
Lecture Series on China: Decision-Making in Communist China. 
Dr. Richard Lewis Walker, Institute of International Studies, 
University of South Carolina. Chatham College, Woodland Rd. 
November 3, 11 am. Open to the public.
A Medley of Models in the Sciences by Peter Achinstein of John 
Hopkins University. Clapp Hall Auditorium, University of Pitts
burgh. December 5 at 8:15 pm. Free.
EXHIBITS . . .
Chinese Art Form, Collection of Walter Reed Hovey. Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, 440 Forbes Ave. Treasury Room. On con
tinuous display 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Saturday; 2 to 5 pm 
on Sunday.
Three Self-Taught Pennsylvania Artists: John Kane, Edward Hicks, 
Horace Pippin. Third floor galleries, Carnegie Museum. Now 
through December 4.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 N. Negley Ave. Exhibits of work by 
Virgil Cantini. Now thru November 16.
Old master drawings from the collection of the Westmoreland Country 
Museum of Art. Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Gallery, University 
of Pittsburgh. 12 noon to 4:30 pm, Monday thru Friday; 1 to 5 pm, 
Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday, Now thru December 5.
Paintings, crafts, and sculpture by local artists. Gallery Downstairs, 
5413 B Walnut St. 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday thru Saturday; 7 to 9 pm, 
Wednesday and Friday; 1 to 4 pm Sunday.
Ceramics by Franz Wildenhain. Falk Hall Foyer. 10 am to 5 pm, Mon
day thru Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday. November 6 thru 22. Chat
ham College, Woodland Rd.
Pittsburgh Water Color Society Group ShowNatural Color Cam
era Club: Prints by Kenneth Butler and stoneware in collabora
tion with Ronald Burke. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Saturday;
2 to 5 pm, Sunday, Now thru November 13. Arts and Crafts Center, 
Fifth and Shady Aves.
Fall Flower Show, Phipps Conservatory. Sunday, Noc. 6 thru Nov. 30. 
9 ana to 5 pm and 7 pm to 10 pm, everyday.
Moon Venture 1969 and NASA Space Exhibit. Buhl Planetarium. Sun
days, 2:15, 4:15, and 8:15 pm. Weekdays, 2:15 and 8:15 pm.
Fiesta Italianahorsemanship, music, song, and dances direct from 
Italy. Civic Arena. November 8, 8 pm. Tickets $3, $4, and $6.
SPORTS . . .
Pittsburgh Steelers vs Cleveland Browns. Pitt Stadium. 1 pm, Sunday, 
November 6.
INFORMAL ENTERTAINMENT . . .
The Crumbling Wallfeaturing a dialog on Wild Strawberries. 
Coffee, refreshments. 9 pm to 1 am, November 4. 4515 Forbes Ave.
PITTSBURGH PLATE GLASS CO.
CHEMICAL DIVISION
INTERVIEW DATE: Tuesday, November 8
Opportunities available in West Virginia, Ohio, Louisiana, 
Texas, California, Georgia and Canada.
Heavy chemical producer, emphasis in captive uses. Con
sistant, strong Research and Development effort. Divisional 
sales in excess of $230,000,000.00.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS- Production, Development 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS- Maintenance, Engineering Design 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS- Maintenance, Design, Instrumentation 
CIVIL ENGiNEERS- Construction, Design 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS Planning and Scheduling
CHEMISTS All degree levels for research 
responsibilities.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR AU YOUR PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
We RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue 
PHONE: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Most Items
GeorgeBernardShawbe darned!
Youth isnt wasted on the young. And the young dont waste their time at Celanese.
Our top people are never old-fashioned about any new idea, whether it comes from middle management or from our youngest college grad. We have a master plan and the vitality to make it work. Marketing is way-out and zeroed right in. Finance knows that we have better things to do with our money than let it grow barnacles... shelled out $465 million in capital expenditures over the last 3 years. In the scientific department, we combine technical insight with an unusual grasp of marketing dynamics.
Thinking young explains how we chalked-up one of the most impressive corporate rebuilding jobs in recent history. How we turned what was basically a one-product business into a solid and diverse international corporation dealing in chemicals, miracle fibers;plastics, paints, petroleum and forest products. How we multiplied sales 5 fold in 10 years. How we now have 100 plants in the U.S., Canada, Latin America, Europe, Africand Asia.
Possibly we could afford to relax a little. But success makes young blood run even faster.
Which means that the ambitious college grad couldnt find a more provocative opportunity anywhere else in American industry.
Accountants, Chemists, ChEs, MEs, Physicists, MBAs
Our representative will be on your campus Nov. 8th Contact your placement director to make an interview appointment. Or write for a brochure outlining more specific areas of job opportunity to Mr. J. B. Kuhn,Manager of University Recruitment, Celanese Corporation, 522 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10036.
E:MVGTMPM
CHEMICALS . FIBERS . PLASTICS  COATINGS  PETROLEUM  FOREST PRODCTS
An Equal Opportunity Employer (MPF)
Sorry to Have Missed You At Your Post-Game Dance. Due To a Slight 
Misunderstanding, Dates and Times were confused. Hope to see you 
soon.  THE ITHACAS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 2, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 5
Anthone Review
Hicks, Kane, and Pippin
by Tony Lawrence
Hewlett Display 
Shows Work of 
Drawings USA
A collection of drawings 
from the St. Paul (Minneso
ta) Art Center will be on 
display in Carnegie Techs 
Hewlett Gallery through No
vember 11.
This collection of mid-20th cen
tury artists represents an attempt 
by the St. Paul Art Center to 
search for enduring art from 
amid the overwhelming frag
ments of fallout from the cur
rent cultural explosion.
In 1961, in response to a re
newed interest in drawing, the 
St. Paul Art Center sponsored 
DRAWINGS USA, a competition 
which attracted more than 10,000 
entries. From this and two subse
quent exhibitions in 1963 and 
1966, a panel of jurors selected 
outstanding works for possible 
purchase by the Art Center.
Several of the more outstand
ing works in the Drawings col
lection will be on display at Car
negie Tech. Included in the ex
hibition are drawings by Ameri
can artists William Grooper, Rob
ert Gwathmey, Gabor Peterdi, 
Abraham Rattner, and Ben 
Shahn, Mexican artist Jose Luis 
Cuevas and Polish artist Mathias 
Goeritz.
Techs Hewlett allery, located 
in the Fine Arts Building on the 
Tech campus, is open Mondays 
thru Fridays from 9 am to 12 noon 
and 1 to 4 pm.
General Speaks 
About Vietnam
The Carnegie Tech Young Amer
icans for Freedom will sponsor the 
appearance of Brig. General Clyde 
Watts at the Monongahela Room 
of the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, No
vember 9 at 8 pm.
General Watts possesses exten
sive knowledge of the political 
and social climate of Vietnam and 
is keenly perceptive of the mili
tary situation.
The General is a graduate of 
New Mexico Military Institute 
and Oklahoma University. Dur
ing World War II he served with 
free Chinese forces as a liason 
officer and was decorated by both 
the American and Chinese gov
ernments. He has since main
tained a close association with 
Asian leaders.
Tickets can be obtained at the 
door or by calling Jim Coyne at 
682-9211.
Poetry Forum 
Presents Wilbur
Pulitzer Prize winner Richard 
Wilbur will read selections from 
his own poetry at the Internation
al Poetry Forum program on 
Wednesday, November 9, at 8:30 
pm in Carnegie Hall, Oakland.
Things of the World, the book 
for which Mr. Wilbur won the 
Puitzer, also earned him the Na
tional Book Award and the Edna 
St. Vincent Millay Memorial Prize. 
He has also published three other 
volumes of poetry. Mr. Wilbur is 
professor of English at Wesleyan 
University.
The International Poetry Forum 
is presenting a reading each 
month thru May, by prominent 
poets and readers of poetry. Tic
kets are on sale at Gimbels, 
Hornes and Kaufmanns, campus 
book store and the Forum office 
at Carnegie Library in Oakland. 
For more information call 621-9893.
LINCOLN
PANCAKE
KITCHEN%
3or WeaL 
Moderate Prlcel . . .
Or -Jn -After Dkealer
Snaci . . . ok 'Ides
.. We Also Have ..
17 Varieties of Pancakes 
('Forbes & Atwood6 a.m.-3 a.m.)
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer 
ROUTE 8, ETNA.,
HONDA MOTORCYCLES
OLD HONDOMATIC SERVICE
2987 BABCOCK BLVD. 931-3100
RECORDED LIVE AT THE CASTALIA FOUNDATION - DR. LEARY'S CENT FOR 
RESEARCH ON CONSCIOUSNESS-EXPANDING DRUGS. 
SEND $3.00 PER RECORD CHECK O R MONEY ORDERS ONLY. WE PAY POSTAGE!
SEND ME.............COPIES OF DR. TIMONTHY LEARY'S LP RECORDING ON LSD
ENCLOSED IS A CHECK OR MONEY ORDER FOR $...........................
TO: PIXIE RECORDS, Inc.
1619 BROADWAY, ROOM 602 ...................piease PrinO..................................
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019
ADDRESS...........................................................................MONO-LONG PLAYING
CITY..............................................STATE..................ZIP.
A TRULY GLORIOUS and rewarding afternoon may be spent 
seeing an excellent art exhibit at the Carnegie Institute Museum of 
Art. Entitled simply Hicks, Kane, Pippin: Three Self-Taught Pennsyl
vania Artists, the exhibit encompasses the works of three primitive 
artists. The exhibition will close on December 4 and is at present 
on the third-floor galleries; admission is free to students with ID 
cards and 50 cents to non-students, a nominal fee indeed.
Edmund Hicks is probably the least known of the three. Born in 
1780, his only artistic experience was in the field of carriage making. 
Between his extensive involvement in the Quaker movement and his 
trade, he devoted little time to painting and yet was highly prolific. 
Hicks liked to paint early Pennsylvania scenes depicting the develop
ment of land and cities; also many of his paintings show animals pos
sessing human humors, as he referred to them. This is most present 
in his detailed work of the eyes of lions and sheep, to name a few, 
and his use of animals is quite similar to Rousseaus; he even has 
a series of paintings called Peacable Kingdom. Although Hicks uses 
few colors, they are blended well and are beautifully effective. One 
of the greatest of the collection is a picture of different species of 
animals boarding Noahs Ark. It is rather ironic that Hicks gave 
away most of his paintings and died penniless and without recogni
tion. It took almost a century for his work to be appreciated and 
sought after. His excellence clearly shows through.
YOU DONT HAVE TO GO FAR TO find beautyall you need 
is observation, stated John Kane (1860-1934), when asked why he 
never strayed far from his immediate surroundings to paint. He is 
often compared loosely with German expressionists because of a 
slight nondescript element in some of his pictures. Using primarily 
childhood scenes as the basis for his work, John Kane was a very 
sensitive painter with tremendous intuition. One of the best paint
ings in the entire exhibit is a self-portrait showing him as an ama
teur prize fighter. Railroad scenes are often the setting for a good 
many of his pictures, mainly because he spent a lot of time around 
them and enjoyed painting them which he fondly remembered from 
childhood. Highly respected by Paul Klee and Picasso, it wasnt until 
the early 1900s that Kane too became honored. Fortunately, he was 
able to revel in his much deserved success.
DECIDING TO PAINT on a serious basis at the age of 43 is a 
rather difficult undertaking. Having a useless right arm due to a 
war injury and being a Negro contribute greatly to this difficulty. 
Such is Horace Pippin who, recovering from injuries sustained in 
the war, decided to express himself about the horror of war that 
he experienced. Of the three self-taught artists, Pippin experienced 
the most genuine success. I must confess that, although I found 
him to be least impressive of the trio, his use of color is excellent, 
His figures and general shapes are slightly akin to those of Matisse, 
but he lacks the esthetic form. The picture titled The End of 
Starting Home is a vivid depiction of loneliness and 
of Pippins works exceed two by three feet; mainly, he was limited 
in his ability to do justice to large canvasses because of his handicap, 
which he otherwise overcame in a most honorable manner.
The exhibit as a whole is well worth seeing. The artists are 
linked by a primitive style and yet their personal distinctions as 
individual artists are fhe elements of literally fine art that make 
this exhibition.________________________________________________________
^IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiKillllhlilluiiilllinlllllllllllllllllllllllllllf
VISIT HONDA PITT
SPECIAL PRICES 
On All New & Used
DOESLSDIN SUGAR CUBES
SPOIL THE TASTE OF COFFEE????
FIVE LEVELS 
Of 
CONSCIOUSNESS 
EXPANSION
about
Dr. Timothy Leary, Ph.D

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 2, 1966
Editorial
Procrastination
In response to an editorial referring to the crowded and 
iAadequate facilities of the bookstore, the Tartan was in
formed that this situation would be alleviated somewhat by 
moving the post office into the space vacated by the Division 
of Student Affairs on the first floor of Baker Hall. The 
bookstore would then be able to expand into the post office 
space, and the space formerly used for storage by the Adnissions Office.
However, recent inspection of the proposed post of
fice site has shown that no construction of postal facili
ties has begun. Hence, it appears that the bookstore will 
not be able to expand before the beginning of the second 
semester. More importantly, this implies that students 
will once again be faced with long, slowly moving lines, 
shortages of books and other supplies and generally crowd
ed conditions in the bookstore.
It would seem that the bookstore has suffered a fate 
imilar to that which befell the Tartan Grill. Construction 
>n the grill was not begun until the first part of September, 
tnd, although it was scheduled to be opened by Homecomng, it will not be ready for use until December 1. Similarly, 
he bookstore has been allocated the additional space, but 
vith only twelve weeks remaining before the beginning of 
he second semester, it is doubtful that the necessary con
duction for the post office will be completed early enough 
o allow the bookstore to make use of its inherited space for 
he beginning-of-the-semester rush.
In view of this, perhaps the bookstore itself could make 
use of the extra floor space in the former offices of the 
Division of Student Affairs. In any event, steps must be 
taken to alter the situation that develops at the beginning 
of every semester. The bookstore could expand its facili
ties to some extent by temporarily moving some commodi
ties into the Wherrett room, or into other space in Skibo 
during the beginning of the semester. Although this then 
necessitates two trips, one to Skibo, and one to Baker Hall, 
in order to purchase the necessary items for the forth
coming semester, certainly such an inconvenient situation 
would be a great improvement on the long lines, and slow 
service that prevailed in the fall.
In the meantime, a long-range solution to the booktore problem must be sought. As Carnegie Tech becomes 
nore diverse, the need for an adequate bookstore becomes 
aramount. Its present shortcomings do not rest with the 
lookstore, per se; in fact, the its staff has admirably atempted to meet most student needs. However, its buying 
)olicy has been seriously hampered by the obvious lack of 
lisplay space. Given an adequate amount of space, the 
ookstore certainly has the potential to be one of the finer 
~acilities of its kind.
Several proposed solutions have been made in the 
past, and at least one is forthcoming from a Student Gov
ernment committee. In addition, the bookstore has been 
allocated space in a contemplated addition to Skibo. How
ever, in view of the present example of the Tartan Grill, 
it may be a long time before the needs of the bookstore 
and the students who patronize it are adequately met.
Ill....... llllll
RICHARD G. SEXTRO
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor...........................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor .......................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager.........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.....................................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor.......................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor.......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor...........................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager........................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ................................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.......................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor.............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager........Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara erfPo Barbara Wander. 
Executive A**i*tants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
New* Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evan*, Ellen Levine, 
Tom Moore, Richard Morrison, Jane Riva, Diane Samuel*, Joanne 
Schneider, Loui*e Schwerin, Jean Siegal, Rich Steffen*, Joan 
Sityga, Selina Wang, Unda Wenzel, Carol Ni**en*on, David 
Land*berger.
Sport* Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykow*ki, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael CramerPhotography Staff: Michoel Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morri*, Sue 
lohmeyer, Mark Kamin*ky, Pawl Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chri* 
Houiler, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Businet* Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Harriet 
Nodel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinion.
Editorial Board: Evan M Melhado.Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Old*, William Opfermann, Leonard 
Wanetik, Jane Merck.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Politicians, Profs 
Compare Ideas 
At Viet Meeting
A group of 40 Pittsburgh
ers, many of them clergy
men, will sponsor a public 
Speak-Out on Vietnam at 
8:15 pm November 4 at Car
negie Music Hall to focus at
tention on the Vietnam War 
as the crucial but neglected 
issue of the coming elec
tions.
According to Thomas M. Kerr, 
Jr., moderator of the Pittsburgh 
event, a speak-out is a public 
meeting where a communitys 
best-informed and most concern
ed citizens share their specialized 
knowledge of the history and im
plications of the War, as well as 
their opinions, with the public.
Kerr said speeches will be pre
sented by Prof. David Montgom
ery, history, and Prof. Thomas M. 
Cooley, law, University of Pitts
burgh; Msgr. Charles Owen Rice, 
Holy Rosary R. C. Church; Thom
as Quinn, business agent, Local 
610, UE; Hill District Block Club 
Leader Mrs. Mildred Clancy; Pitt 
student leader John Ruskay, Dr. 
Walter Weist, professor of eth
ics, Pittsburgh Theological Sem
inary; and others.
Topics will include Prospects 
for Democracy in Vietnam, 
Does Vietnam Affect Our Na
tional Security? The Effect of 
the War on Americas Values, 
and How the War Can Be End
ed Justly.
Kerr said that since Allegheny 
Countys Congressional candidates 
had virtually ignored Vietnam 
as an issue in their campaigns, 
all eight of them had been in
vited by telegram to present ten 
minute statements at the SpeakOut so that the public would 
know where they stood on the 
issue of the direction the war 
should take.
Williams Play 
Streetcar Now 
At Playhouse
Artistic Director John Han
cocks second play in his pre
miere season of professional 
theater at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse is Tennessee 
Williams Pulitzer-Prize win
ning drama A Streetcar 
Named Desire.
Currently playing in the Play
house Hamlet Street Theater, the 
play features Winifred Mann as 
Blanche DuBois, a confused 
Southern Belle. Barton Heyman 
is seen as the quick-tempered 
Stanley Kowalski with Carolee 
Campbell as his self-effacing wife, 
Stella. The callow, mother-dom
inated Mitch is played by John 
Simpson. In supporting roles are: 
Josie Tutsie as Eunice Hubbell; 
Carnegie Tech graduate Edd 
Gasper as Steve Hubbell; and 
Richard Bright as Pablo Gonzales. 
Other parts have been assigned 
to Lula Hundley, Greg McGriff, 
Ken Lutz (a sophomore in music 
at Carnegie Tech), Sandy Aker, 
Alice Gaely, and Paul Mooney.
Marc Estrin, Associate Direc
tor to Artistic Director John Han
cock, is directing the drania 
which will run concurrently with 
A Mans a Man in the Craft Ave
nue Theater.
The setting, a squalid two-room 
New Orleans apartment, is de
signed by Leon Erickson.
Tickets are now on sale at 
Gimbels, Homes, Penn-Sheraton 
Hotel, Pitt Book Center, or can 
be otained by calling the Play
house at 621-4445.
(Content,p orar yC^enlar,
The
Columbian
Dilemma
by Linda Pecaites
,
THIS WEEK Columbia University students will vote on a refer
endum proposal for the institution of an honor system. The new 
code would eliminate all proctored tests for students admitted after 
next year, and currently enrolled students would be proctored only 
upon request. Also, it would be totally the responsibility of the stu- i 
dent to report any cheating, and all reported cases would be judged 
by a nine-man undergraduate board with the power to convict or 
acquit the accused. All convictions would then be passed on to the 
dean, to determine punishment.
Observors have noted with some surprise the general student 
apathy toward such a move. There have been very few students 
who have made a direct statement of interest in establishing the 
honor code. Although more schools are tending toward this direc
tion, this is one area in which the average student is pushing for < 
more freedom. The American student has a great distaste of being 
placed in a position of responsibility for anothers action. The idea 
of being thy brothers keeper is antithetical to the protection of 
the group. Once one judges, or worse yet, once one finks on one 
of the crowd, one is marked and set aside from the rest of the mass.
AUTHORITY IN THIS SITUATION has a unique appeal; it re
lieves the undergrad from the pressure of making the decision as 
to just what his scruples will be. The already branded authoritarian, 
the proctor, justifies potential cheating. He is the enemy, the con
flicting force, not one of the group; therefore, the cheater does not | 
hurt the group by action but rather helps.
In a school, the student is much like the businessman. He is 
not there for omy the selffless pursuit of knowledge, but rather he 
is there to insure his future in a competitive world. He wants to be 
sure that he succeeds, any way that he can justify to himself. The 
cheater also is allowed to survive, for he may someday be in a 
position to reciprocate if he is reported to authority.
THE IDEA OF A MORAL CODE has traditionally been that of 
laws designated by a greater power, a nebulous higher authority ^ 
who has always pointed man in the direction he should go. A self
evolved code places the entire responsibility for the success or failure 
of the project upon the individual.
In a situation like Tech, where the student has always been a 
person who stood out from the group, it would be an interesting 
experiment to see if the student would face the responsibility of a 
self-evolved code or whether he would panic and accept the comfort 
of a known system where he does not have to sit in judgment.
Whats Doing 
On Campus
by Joanne Schneider 
and Joann Sztyga
WEDNESDAY. November
1:00-4:00Womens Club Te 
lander Room.High4 rOOCross-Country, CIT vs Bethany, 
Home course.
4 :30IM SoccerSAE vs PiKa Gold," 
Field A (Forbes).
TDP vs DU, Field B (Parking Lot)
4 :80Slide rule instruction sponsored 
by Tau Beta Pi. Basic scales will
be discussed, DH 2210.
5:30-7 :30Delta Delta Delta, Skibo 45.
 :30Flying Club meeting, PH 126B.
7 :00-8:00Sigma Kappa, Skibo 40.
7 :00-8:30Beginning Guitar, Skibo 56.
7 :00IM Co-Rec Volleyball, A vs GSIA, 
TDP A vs TX, Kappa Sigma vs Al
gorithms, DTD vs E.J.s; Gym.
7:30Oratory: Dr. Lawrence Canjar, 
Dean of Engineering and Science, 
University of Detroit will peak. 
Highlander Room.
8:00Co-Rec Volleyball, TDP IM vs 
SAE C, SN vs F Troop, Comp. Cen
ter vs ATO F, BTP U vs SAE D; 
Gym.
THURSDAY. November 3rd
4 :30IM SoccerE. J.'s vs BSR, Field 
A; PKT vs Architects, Field B.
4:30Slide rule instruction. Log log: 
scales will be discussed. DH 2210.
7 :00-ll :00A Phi O. Skibo 40.
7 :00Pittsburgh section of the Ameri
can Society of Civil Engineers, PH100.
7:00Co-Rec Volleyball, BTP B vs F 
Troop, TDP CV vs Algorithms. DTD 
vs SAE B. TDP IM vs Comp. Cen
ter. Gym.
8 :00Tech Dames, Skibo 54.
8:00Theology Class, Continuation of 
the discussion of Theilhard de 
Chardin and Cardinal Newman. 
Skibo 55.
8:00Co-Rec Volleyball, TX vs SAE D, 
ATO A vs PKT, SAE A vs PIKA, 
BTP A vs ATO F; Gym.
5:00-8:00Benjamin F. Fair leas Mem
orial Lectures  "Management: & 
Humanist Art" given by David E. 
Lilienthal, former Atomic Energy 
Commission Chairman, Skibo Bali 
room.
FRIDAY, November 4tb
4 :30-6:00Delta Delta Delta Faculty 
Tea, Highlander Room.
4:30IM SoccerGrad Nads vs DU. 
Field A; BTP A vs PIKA Gold, 
Field B.
7 :00 and 10Friday Cine Series. Wilt* 
Strawberries." Admission 25c Ymembers, 50c non-members. PH 100.
8:00The Housing of the Rising Sun" 
Coffee House, informal live jazz 
from 8 til 10 p.m. Admission 50c 
at the door, all you can eat.
9:00-12Ceilidh, Wherrett Room.
SATURDAY. November 5th 
7 :30-l :00Chinese Club, Ballroom.
SUNDAY. November th
11:00Methodist Service, Skibo.
9, 10:30, 12Mass, Scaife Auditorium. 
11:00-3:00Scotch 'n' Coda, Skibo 54. 
7:30-10:30Chess Club, Skibo 54.
(Continued on Page 7)

---------------------------------------------------

IWednesday, November 2, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
Light Vote Picks 
Shafer In Tech 
Mock Elections
Raymond Shafer was elect
ed governor of Pennsylvania 
in a mock election on the 
Tech campus last Thursday. 
The election, in which stu
dents voted for Pennsylvania 
governor, lieutenant gover
nor, and U.S. Congressman 
from the 14th District, was 
sponsored by the History 
Department. Nicholas 0. 
Berrry, Instructor in His
tory, supervised the proceed
ing^________________________
See Results 
Below
As can be seen, Schafer, Staisey, and Thornburg all won by 
narrow margins. Over 25 per 
cent of the students split their 
tickets.
The results were nearly iden
tical for state and out-of-state 
residents, except that state resi
dents chose Moorhead over 
Thornburg. There was one vote 
for candidates of the Socialist 
Labor Party and one candidate 
of the Constitution Party.
Poor Turnout Noted
Most students and faculty mem
bers involved with the election 
v/ere disappointed at the very 
light turnout. Only seven per 
cent of the undergraduate stu
dent body voted. Out of over 2,- 
000 students who are Pennsyl
vania residents, only 190less 
than ten per centvote.
One student, Camille Badzgon, 
a sophomore in Psychology, com
mented on the election, this way: 
Because of two hurricanes, a 
horrible rainstorm, a flash flood, 
a hailstorm and a monsoon, the 
turnout was light. . . . Unfortun
ately, however, the real reason 
for the poor turnout cannot be 
attributed to bad weather condi
tions.
The real reason is the fact 
that the majority of Tech stu
dents are completely apathetic 
about politics. . . . Hopefully, they 
will respond with greater aware
ness and concern to a real elec
tion that they did to this mock 
election. Otherwise, we might as 
well scrap the whole democratic 
pi ocess.
TPtKA
By John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
CONIC H
N-CH
\Ay
Reproduced here is the chemic
al symbol for the drug, lysergic 
acid diethylamide, more common
ly known as LSD 25. This, with 
other psychic drugs such as mes
caline, methedrine, and psilocy
bin, has long been recognized by 
the U.S. Army as an important 
weapon in the form of an inca
pacitating agent. However, the 
reactionary forces of contempor
ary pacifism and liberalism stand 
firmly against the use of these 
drugs.
To those not familiar with the 
term incapacitating agent, Will! liam Summerson, Deputy Com
mander for Scientific Activities, 
U. S. Army Chemical Corps Re
search and Development Com
mand, defines this as chemical 
weapons which are not basically lethal in themselves but which 
produce a temporary and reversible incapacitationfor example, 
temporary mental confusion, temporary anesthesia, narcosis, para
lysis, temporary blindness. He goes on to speak of their value in 
litmited ware where it is the desire to stamp out agression with 
minimum loss of life and property in the shortest amount of time.
These efforts to humanize warfare by the U.S. Army are hotly 
contested by the Dove and liberal forces of public opinion. These 
forces blindly stick tothe Geneva Convention as the ultimate in 
rules for warfare, or the Kellogg-Briand Pact, the idea of banning 
an undesirable fault of human nature by simple fiat much in the 
same way one would ban the use of alcoholic beverages or non-addictive drugs.
This reaction has been seen many times. Take for example the 
great hue and cry that went up when it was found last year that 
our troops were using the incapacitating agents, tear, and related 
riot-control gases. Somehow, it is argued that for mankind bullets 
and napalam are more humane than tear gas. We think this would 
be vigorously rebutted by the thousands of American and Vietna
mese dead. With this great clamor as a precedent, how could the 
General Staff risk the use of any other incapacitating agent.
Departing from the grisly side to a higher intellectual plane, 
we see a paradox confronting these reactionaries. By such opposition 
they repudiate one of their own visionaries, Dr. Timothy Leary, 
Buddha, Messiah, and Martyr of LSD 25. They are at the same time 
hindering his efforts. What a better way to inculcate in the Eastern 
people an understanding of our enlightened, progressive, Western 
thought? In a recent interview, Dr. Leary said: LSD is Western 
yoga. The aim of all Eastern religions, like the aim of LSD, is basic
ally to get high: that is, to expand your consciousness and find 
ecstasy and relevation within. Dr. Learys synthesis of Western 
and Eastern thought is never to be defeated by his own camp. Never 
will the Viet Cong legions march to the tune of Turn on, Turn in, 
Drop Out.
RESULTS
Candidate Votes Pet.
Governor
Raymond Schafer (R.) ............................. 151 50.1%
Milton Shapp (D.)..................................... 128 42.8%
No Opinion .................................................. 11 7.1%
Lit. Governor
Leonard C. Staisey (D.) ........................... 129 43.1%
Raymond J. Broderick (R.)..................... 113 47.5%
No Opinion .................................................. 38 19.4%
Congress14th District
Richard Thornburg (R.) ....................... 104 34.5%
William Moorhead (D.) ........................... 103 34.0%
No Opinion ................................................. '77 31.5%
Whats Doing On Campus
TUESDAY. November 8th
IJ :30-12 :30-Assembly  Virgil Thom
son. Skibo Ballroom.
4 :S0IM SoccerSAE vs Jags, Field 
A ; TDP vs DTD, Field B.
5 :00-8 :00Fail-less LecturesOverseas 
Development as a Humanist Art," 
Skibo Ballroom.
6 :00-8 :00Chi Omega. Skibo 46.
8 :30Science Fiction Club, Skibo 40. 
7:00-8:30- Bridge. Skibo 56. 
i7:30-ll :00 Society of Women Engi
neers, Skibo 40.
7 :30-9 :00Photography Claas, Skibo 55. 
7 :30 Explorer Club, Skibo 45.
7 :30 History Club, Skibo 39.
8:00-11:00  Folk Dance Club, Skibo
Ballroom.
(Continued, from Page 6)
MONDAY. November 7th
4:30IM SoccerPiKA "Garnet vs 
BTP B. Field A; ATO vs SN.
5:00-8:00Fairless Lfccturea 'lManasrerial Leadership as a Humanist 
Art, Skibo Ballroom.
7 and 9:15Dorm movie, Seven Days 
in May, Ballroom.
7:00-8:30Course in Investments, Skibo 
40.
7:0- -Co-Rec Volleyball. SAE A vs 
Kappa Siirma, ATO A vs E.J.'s, 
(SIA v SAE C. TDP A vs SN. 
(ym.
8:00Co-Rec Volleyball. TDP vh ATO 
F, F SPECCI vs SAE D. Gym.
Y Film Series 
Shows Bergman
This week the YMCA Fri
day Cine-Series presents In
gmar Bergmans Wild Straw
berries at 7 and 10 pm in 
Porter Hall 100. Admission 
is 25 cents for Y-members 
and 50 cents for non-mem
bers.
The movie portrays the story 
of Dr. Izak Borg, an old man, 
hardened by his dedication to 
scientific achievement and insen
sitive to the needs of his family 
and associates, who suddenly 
comes face-to-face with the awful 
fact of his own spiritual death. 
Through the memories evoked 
during an automobile trip with 
his daughter-in-law, he begins to 
understand the full tragedy of 
his situationhe is a man who, 
even as a boy, was old, and who 
has been unable to have any real 
compassion for any real thing.
The experience of Izak is that 
of a man awakening from a long 
slumber and, for the first time, 
really beginning to be aware of 
the presence of other human be
ings who, like himself, must 
share love with their fellow man 
in order to find real meaning to 
an otherwise cold existence.
At 10 pm there will be a discus
sion of the film at the Crumbling 
Wall Coffee House, 4515 Forbes 
Ave.
Through the Looking Glass . ..
La Dolce Vita
by Timothy Bay
Despite the inaccurate and sensational advertising come-on 
The film that shocked the critics . . . uncensored for all to 
seeLa Dolce Vita is a brilliantly orchestrated, richly designed 
mosaic of present day Rome.
Its hero and focus is Marcello, a talented writer who is slum
ming it as a reporter for a popular Rome scandal sheet. We first 
meet him in a helicopter flying over the city. Suspended from the 
copter, arms outstretched, is a plaster statue of Christ, which is be
ing transported to the Vatican.
This bizarre, striking image beautifully sets an ironic note for 
the action that follows. We swiftly move from this sequence to a 
crowded, smoky nightclub where Marcello picks up a bored, young 
heiress; together they spend the night in the home of a prostitute 
friend. They leave next morning, and on his return home Marcello 
finds that his mistress, Emma, has attempted suicide. After bringing 
Emma to a hospital where she is treated and released, Marcello 
rushes off to cover the arrival of Sylvia, an American movie actress. 
Marcello escorts Sylvia on a daytime sightseeing tour of Rome; the 
the night is spent at a variety of elegant parties. Dawn comes and 
we see Marcello and Sylvia frolicking drunkenly in the fountain of 
Treve. With the jarring, coldly objective power of daylight, they 
are restored to sobriety, and Marcello is off again to see his friend 
Steiner.
In this dizzying success of events, we observe through Mar
cellos quietly cynical eyes the gaudy, frantic lives of the Aristocracy 
and its siamese twin in pleasure, the movie colony in Rome. Through
out the movie, searching incessantly in packs, looking for scandal, 
are photographers. When they discover a celebrity in a moment of 
embarrassment, they attach themselves like parasites, surrounding 
their victim in the maniacal blare of their flash bulbs. We watch, 
absorbed, as Marcello is drawn deeper and deeper into this fantastic 
world.
All avenues of salvation are cut off: the one person, Steiner, 
whom Marcello admires and-who appears to be living an idealized, 
quiet, well adjusted life, ironically kills himself and his two children.
In the end, Marcello is reduced to the even more ignoble job 
of publicist for an idiot, minor movie star. In a touching final scene, 
Marcello is at the seashore with his friends. He walks away from 
the noisy revelers, and gazes across a small stream at the fresh, 
innocent figure of a young girl. She waves, and beckons to him, but 
he shakes his head. The innocence personified by the young girl 
is lost to him; sadly he turns his back to her and rejoins his friends.
Fellini, the director, has in this movie, it seems to me, com
bined the talents of showman and artist. He has created a rich 
tour de force, a movie that successfully blends the sharp, eagleeyed feeling for detail of a reporter with the extravagant, visual 
dexterity of a highly imaginative artist. He shows great warmth 
for his characters, a warmth that is true and fine, without sen
timentality, and an excellent feeling for atmosphere. The film 
is full of fine, poetic affecting moments: a magical scene with 
Anita Eckberg walking slowly, dreamlike, through the archaic, 
deserted streets of Rome at night, a beautiful white cat perched 
on her head.
The acting is uniformly good, quite an achievement consider
ing the fact that there 106 speaking roles. Marcello Mastroianni as 
the wasteful and tragic writer is, in a quietly charming and sugges
tive way, perfect.
Anouk Armee, a rich nymphomaniac, Yvonne Fumearu, Mar
cellos mistress, Alain Cuny as the kindly, ill-fated intellectual, and 
Annibale Ninch, who appears briefly as Marcellos father, are all 
moving and very real.
Anita Eckberg plays to the hilt, the larger-than-life sex siren, 
Sylvia: she comes complete with outsized breasts, a breathly child
like movie to match her child-like intelligence, and a winning smile 
that she turns on and off like a neon sign. Finally, credit should be 
due Nine Rota for his lush, slickly compelling, jazzy musical score.
Indirectly, this English language version brings np for dis
cussion the important issue of the use of subtitles as against 
dubbing. I found that for the most part, the dubbing in this movie 
was intelligent and in character. But, somehow, I cannot help 
feeling that a very important, intrinsic feeling of atmosphere, 
locale, of nationality, that is impossible to achieve in dubbing, 
was lost.
In regard to the sensational hard-breathing advertising, La 
Dolce Vita, by current film standards, is remarkably tame and re
spectable. There is one scene, however, with two chorus girls, who 
turn out to be really boys, doing a charming dance that I found 
somewhat decadent, to say the least.
Coast Guard 
OCS Training 
Open To Seniors
College seniors or grad
uates can fulfill their mili
tary obligation as officers in 
the U.S. Coast Guard. Quali
fied applicants are notified of 
selection for Officer Candi
date School before they en
list.
OCS classes convene in Sep
tember and February at the Coast 
Guard Reserve Training Center
in historic Yorktown, Va. There 
the carefully selected college 
graduates receive 17 weeks of 
intensive, highly specialized train
ing. Upon graduation they are 
commissioned as ensigns in the 
Coast Guard Reserve and serve 
on active duty for three years. 
Flight training may be offered.
Information on the U.S. Coast 
Guard Officer Candidate School 
may be obtained from Comman
dant (PTP-2), U.S. Coast Guard 
Headquarters, Washington, D. C. 
20226, or the Coast Guard Re
cruiting office in the Federal 
Building, downtown.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 2, 19665
GSIAs Joseph Analyzes 
Johnson Economic Guides
Political timidity and lack of commitment by labor and 
industry are responsible for the failure of the Johnson Ad
ministrations anti-inflationary wage-price guidepost policy, 
according to a noted Carnegie Tech economist.
Dr. Myron L. Joseph, head of 
the department of administra
tion and management science at 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, made these 
charges in a talk titled WagePrice Guidelines last Tuesday 
on campus.
Dr. Joseph says the guidepost policy, which links wages 
and prices to the economys ad
vancing productivity, failed be
cause the Administration was 
unwilling to take the political 
risks involved in opposing infla
tionary wage settlements, and 
because there is no commitment 
to the guideposts by private in
dustry and organized labor.
He cautions, however, ag
ainst accepting the demise of 
the guideposts too easily be
cause it is difficult to find a 
more effective way to avoid 
rigid controls or unacceptably 
high levels of unemployment.
The collective bargaining ex
pert calls for remedial sur
gery to revive the guidepost 
policy.
Warning that the United States 
is flirting with a mandatory 
wage-price freeze such as Brit
ains, or with high social costs 
and high unemployment, Dr.
Joseph proposed four steps to re
store the guidepost policy:
1. Integration of the Presi
dents Labor-Management Ad
visory Committee into the guidepost process.
2. Addition of high-level gov
ernment economic policy plan
ners to the Advisory Committee 
on the same basis as labor and 
management representatives to 
permit a more realistic exam
ination of critical policy areas 
by all concerned.
3. Clarifying the distinc
tions between guideposts for 
non-inf lationary wage-price de
cisions, and behavior patterns 
that would be most desirable 
under particular economic con
ditions. (For example, a guidepost for behavior that was the 
product of serious evaluation of 
the policy alternatives by re
sponsible and influential labor 
and management representa
tives might have a chance of 
slowing the snowballing infla
tionary pressures.)
4. An institutionalized pro
cess for creating an atmosphere 
of public opinion in which noninflationary wage and price be
havior is more likely to occur.
Requires Status Risks
In the end the guideposts 
were ineffective because they 
depend on the Presidents will
ingness to jeopardize the status 
ofhis office and to take political 
risks. It proved too much to ask, 
Dr. Joseph says.
He sees no need for a Cong
ressional review of the guideposts, but perhaps some modi
fication of proposals such as
I GINOS XL PETES
PIZZERIA
wHti At fly inf PiuaSPECIAL ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIC M2-M91
Myron L. Joseph
that by Senator Joseph Clark, 
Pennsylvania Democrat, calling 
for the study of certain actual 
or imminent price and wage de
cisions might help bring the or(Continued on Page 11)
Students Needed 
In Xmas Project
The Pittsburgh Red Cross is 
looking for college volunteers to 
help with a special Christmas pro
ject in local veterans hospitals. 
In this Voices to Home project 
volunteers will help the patients 
cut recordings of their personal 
Christmas greeting to send to 
their families for the holidays. 
Volunteers will be needed for 
Saturday and Sunday afternoons 
from mid-November to mid-De
cember.
Training of how to use the re
cording machine and transporta
tion to the hospital will be pro
vided by the Red Cross and meals 
during hours will be given to vol
unteers at the hospitals. Detailed 
information may be obtained from 
the Red Cross Youth Services in
formation may be obtained from 
the Red Cross Youth Services
tHELP WANTED|
| PART-TIME STOCK WORK. * 
{Photographic Supplies);
{Apply . . . 1415 Fifth Ave.
In as good a spot 
as you are today? 
Well-informed ?
Up on things ?
Intimately
acquainted with the 
state of the art in your field 
of study?
wherewill von In*alearsIn minow?
Or will you (through no fault 
of your own) be dangerously 
close to the brink of 
obsolescence ?
Could happen. Often does. 
Which is one good reason to 
consider a career at MITRE.
MITRE is pioneering in the 
design and engineering of 
complex information, sensor, 
command, control and com
munications systems for the 
United States Government.
Our assignments include such 
prominent electronic systems 
as the NORAD Combat 
Operations Center, the Back
up Interceptor Command 
System for SAGE, and the 
National Military Command 
System (NMCS).
These projects represent the 
most important systems 
challenges of our time, and 
require the most advanced 
thinking on a broad range of 
scientific problems and the 
technologies needed to 
solve them.
As a member of the MITRE 
team, youll be working in an 
atmosphere of scientific 
inquiry, alongside colleagues 
of outstanding reputation, 
with the opportunity to make
Technical representa 
tives of The MlTRE 
Corporation will be
an original contribu
tion to your area of 
interest. In an 
environment like 
this, there's no 
telling how far 
you can go. But this much is 
certain. You'll not be over
looked, and you can't be 
overtaken.
Salary? Benefits? Theyre 
competitive, of course. More
over, we have an excellent 
Educational Assistance and 
Staff Scholar Program.
(Many MITRE employees 
presently attend nearby 
educational institutions includ
ing Harvard, Boston University, 
Boston College, Brandeis, 
Northeastern, MIT, and Tufts.) 
Depending on your interests, 
qualifications and current 
openings, you may start in one 
of the following, or other, 
departments:
System Planning and 
Engineering 
Air and Missile 
Defense Systems 
System Design 
Systems Analysis 
Air Traffic Systems 
Tactical Systems 
Strategic Systems 
Range Instrumentation 
Information Sciences 
Computer & Display 
Technology 
Communications 
Electronic Warfare 
Radar Design 
and Technology 
Information Processing 
Surveillance and 
Warning Systems 
Applied MathematicsMITRE
conducting interviews 
on campus November 6,1966
If yoa fcjvt a *.$., M.S.. Of PliD. in Electrical Engineering, Physics, or Mathematics and want mere information regarding opportunities at MITRE. calfcollect. James I Clines (*17)271- 707 or write ie confidence to College Relations Coordinator. The MITRE Corporation.p  44m iM liaw ato naalla
London Show Here
Two performances of the smash 
London musical Half a Sixpence 
will be presented in the Penn 
Theatre downtown at 2:30 and 
8:30 pm November 12.
Based on H. G. Wells novel 
Kipps, the musical features 
choreography by the director of 
the Miss Universe Pageant as 
well as a full orchestra and a 53- 
man company.
Student tickets are available 
from the desk at Skibo 103 for 
both performances.
Urban Problems 
Seminar Theme
A seminar on People in the 
City tomorrow at Pitt opens a 
YMCA-YWCA program on the 
problems' of urbanization.
These events are being held by* 
the Tech and Pitt Ys in prepara, 
tion for the quadrennial National 
Student Assembly in Chicago from 
December 27, 1966 to January 2 
1967.
Any students interested in at
tending the seminars or the work 
camp can get more information 
at the Tech Y office, Skibo 57.
WALLY'S
CAMPUS-FAVORED
Men 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS Women
BATES FLOATERS HUSH-PUPPIES FLATS
FLORSHEIM LOAFERS DRESS SHOES
 WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave., Oakland (Across from Strand Theatre)
1. Whats eating you? 
Cant decide on dessert?
Worse. Cant decide on a job.
2. How come? The recruiters are 
swarmjng the campus.
The kind of job I want just 
doesnt exist.
3. Give me the picture.
Im searching for meaning. 
I want to be of service 
to mankind.
4. You can get a job like that 
with your eyes closed.
The trouble is, I also want 
a slice of the pie.
5. Then why dont you get in touch 
with Equitable. Their whole 
business is based on social 
research. As a member of their 
management development 
program, youll be able to make 
a significant contribution to 
humanity. And pie-wise, the 
pay is fine.
Make mine blueberry.
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write to Patrick Seollard, Manpower Development Division.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019  Equitable 1966
An Equal Opftortunlty Employer, M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 2, 1966  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 9
Thomson ...
(Continued from Page 3)
and must with the other resi
dents. The practice of bringing in 
the symphony for one perfor
mance or two does give the peo
ple a taste for music but it does Un not do the whole job.
Individuals In Art
Next we turned to the subject 
of the professional in the per. 
forming arts. We asked whether, 
with the lessening in the working 
time for most employees in the 
United States, and with the re
sulting increases in leisure time, 
|tthe individuals would be free to 
pursue the arts themselves. The 
result obviously would be a les
sening need for professionals in 
the arts. Mr. Thomson violently 
disagreed with this premise. On 
the contrary, he said that there is 
even leisure time than previously. 
He cited the fact that individuals 
have turned to televisions and 
k phonographs for their entertain
ment. In this day people provided 
their own amusement by getting 
together to sing along with an accompianist, just as he had done 
with Harry Truman.
Comments On TV
This then led us to the state of 
the television industry. He reflect^ eri that in some respect, Particu
larly educational television, it is 
very good. He observed at this 
point that a cousin of his, Leland 
Hazard, had been instrumental in 
founding the first educational tele
vision station here in Pittsburgh, 
WQED. (Hazard is on the faculty 
of Tech in GSIA.) Mr. Thomson 
favors a system of dual television 
I such as is found in Canada and 
Australia where there exist both 
commercial and government sta
tions. This then brought us to the 
movie industry. He stated that it 
has become more a service of tele
vision then an entity unto itself. 
The real movie industry has 
moved to Rome where the Euro
peans films are made. We ob| served that perhaps this was a 
phase which the movie going pub
lic was going through, namely, 
going to foreign films to keep up 
with everyone else. Mr. Thomson 
pointed out that one should never 
ascribe motivation; rather, one 
should accept the movie-going as 
just such: movie-going.
We returned briefly to Mr. 
Thomsons life and his many 
friends. Mr. Thomson told us he 
had reveloped three loyalities in 
his pre-adolescent days  music, 
companionship, and hospitality. 
He thus had many friends and 
acquaintances. His natural gre
gariousness carried to his days in 
Paris where he met many of his 
friends. He said that he had lived 
in Paris on and off since 1921; 
further, in the Paris of the twen
ties, friends would gather infor
mally at street corner cafes to 
share their ideas with each other.
Summing up, Mr. Thomson 
termed himself still just a sim
ple southern boy.
HELP1
CAMERA STORE
Needs Part Time Salesman 
Must Know Cameras
FOTO SHOP
e
5854 Forbes Avenue 
421-7700
Witkop Discusses Role 
Of Biochemistry In Drugs
Dr. Bernhard Witkop, 1966 National Lecturer for Sig
ma Xi Scientific Society, will speak on The Role of Bio
chemistry in Drug Design November 10 at 4:30 p.m. in 
the Skibo Wherrett Room. The lecture, sponsored by the 
Carnegie Tech chapter of Sigma Xi, is free and open to the 
public.
Dr. Witkop emphasizes that 
chemical, biochemical, and phar
maceutical research have long 
been pursuing separate but paral
lel investigations. Recognition of 
the proper roles for these disci
plines is now resulting in a more 
effective, integrated attack on 
problems of disease treatment by 
drugs.
Topics for the lecture are not 
only historical, but also include 
examples of identification, isola
tion, and synthesis of enzymes 
and related substances which are 
biochemically important in phar
maceuticals. Applications to both 
physical and mental diseases will 
be discussed.
Born in Frieburg, Germany, in 
1917, Dr. Witkop was educated 
at the University of Munich and 
earned his doctorate in chemis
try at the age of 23. He did 
postdoctoral work with Heinrich 
Wieland, 1929 Nobel Gaureate. In 
1947 he came to Harvard Uni
versity as Matthew T. Mellon 
Fellow in chemistry. He joined 
the staff of the National Insti
tutes of Health in 1950 and is 
now Laboratory Director of the 
Institute of Arthritic and Metab
olic Diseases at NIH.
Dr. Bernard Witkop
PIDE Publications
The Carnegie Tech chapter of 
Phi Delta Epsilon, journalism 
honorary, will sponsor a publica
tions open house on November 13 
at 2 pm in the Wherrett Room.
Representatives from the Tar
tan, Technical, Thistle, Patterns, 
and WRCT will discuss their or
ganizations. Publications offices in 
Skibo basement will be open for 
inspection.
All students are invited; re
freshments will be served.
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION
presents a 
LOX AND BAGEL BRUNCH
Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein
will discuss
Black Power  White Back Lash
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 6 - 11:00 a.m.
FACULTY DINING ROOM - Skibo Hall, Carnegie Tech 
Members 75 Non-Members $1.25 jj
So Where Do You Get Shelving Around Here?
BROWNS HILL BUILDERS SUPPLY CO. 
that's where. Off Beechwood Blvd. 
towards the Homestead Bridge in 
Squirrel Hill. They're terrific there. 
They have several kinds of boards 
and display many shelf brackets and 
brick. They even cut to your size. 
Who put this ad in? . . . THEY DID! 
. . .421-3500.
FALL CYCLE SALE
M . J. BOHN
CYCLE SHOP
2400 Sawmill Run Blvd.
TRIUMPH  YAMAHA 
MONTESA  OSSA
The Headquarters of Enduro Champions
Three Times Three Times
Mai Zettelings
Loving Couples
by Stan Thomas
Loving Couples is about three sets of loving couples:
A. Pietra and Angela, who met at a girls school where one was 
mistress and the other was a student. Angela is now pregnant and 
who should be the responsible male but the only male Pietra has 
evidently responded to herself? He is off somewhere fighting World 
War I and has, anyway, an insane wife and a son of his own.
B. An artist and his model who are Pietras guest. They attend 
a Midsummers Eve party at a neighboring estate and the model 
becomes pregnant by the hostess son who then propositions the 
artist to marry the model for a yearly allowance: A Have-Your-Cakeand-Eat-It-Too arrangement.
C. Pietras man and woman servant; she reveals to her husband 
on their wedding night that he is not the first. He then, wanders 
around secretly desiring Pietra while his wife drinks and fondles 
herself in front of the mirror. They finally consummate their mar 
riage after she makes a scene at Couple Bs wedding supper.
So we have three pregnant women waiting for delivery. Baby 
C is still-born, strangled by the umbilical cord. Baby B is evidently 
aborted. Baby A is born as the finale of the film. The three respec
tive pregnancies and the situations from which they arise are prob
ably supposed to make some sort of statement about pre-World War 
I Swedish society, but that somehow seems superfluous to the cata
logue of sex which Mai Zetterling makes of the film. Like most cata
logues certain items just arent of interest or value.
The technique of the film, however, is arresting. As the three 
women wait in the maternity hospital which the doctor refers to 
as a prison, they think about their lives up to the pregnancy. Image 
is suggested by sound or incident or even casual comment by someone not related to the story. This makes the first part of the film 
a collage of the present and past which relates through image, sound, 
and dialogue the three childhoods of the women. The three lives 
are developed independently until we arrive at the Midsummers 
Eve sequence when the women begin to move though each others 
lives. The wedding supper of Couple B is then used as a frame of 
reference for the three deliveries contrasting the beginning of a new 
generation with the degeneracy of the old.
The recurrence of the word delivery suggests that it has 
something to do with what Miss Zetterling was trying to say, but 
Ive always found with women directors that by the time they say 
what they have to say, I usually dont care. (Next week: Agnes Var
das Le Bonheur.)
The cast is populated by familiar faces with the Iwgmaj 
Bergman company of which Harriet Anderson is very fine as 
Angela of Couple A and Gunnar Lindstom who played the father 
in Through a Glass Darkly is just as platitudinous but more 
droll. The film is being shown at the Guild Theatre.
Pittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
clxcluive at ^oluert
DIAMOND
odd#/#/
RINGS
LYRIC..........................FROM *100
A traditional solatbire that is sure to please. One of our 
most graceful solataires in 18 Kt. While Gold.
WorUTs Finest Diamond to Fit Your BudgetI 
Terms arranged.
JOHN M.ROBfkIS SON (-
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 2, 1966
 accounting
 ceramics & ceramic engineering
 chemists & chemical engineering
 data processing
 electrical engineering
 geophysics & geological engineering
 industrial engineering
 management sciences
mathematics 
mechanical engineering 
metallugry & metallurgical 
engineering 
oceanography 
operations research 
patent law 
physics
Rivals
ngseo fhoTarghTo
I NCORPORATED
(Continued from Page 2)
surd theatre six years ago it 
was already just about that old 
in Europe. Things have to happen. 
New things? What new things? 
Thats what we have to find 
out.
The Fantasticks, now in its se
venth year oil Broadway, was 
first done by Word Baker at Bar
nard. His production of Arthur 
Millers Crucible and his Phoenix 
Theatre production of Dr. Faustus also evolved from university 
theatre productions. When we 
decided to do The Fantasticks off 
Broadway, we were doing some
thing: A simple romantic musical 
while everybody else was doing 
Theatre of the Absurd. The Fantasticks of course is still running 
while the Theatre of the Absurd 
has gone out of style.
With this emphasis on creat
ing the New, how do you go about 
doing a production of The Rivals 
or any classic? I momentarily 
lost Mr. Baker to a member of 
his cast leaving the dressing room 
for a third act entrance who need
ed assistance with his wig. He 
then said that classics have a 
place especially in a university 
situation when a play is often 
studied academically. Therefore 
classics should be done to illus
trate to those who study them 
how a play works on the stage 
and that it does work on the 
stage and is therefore a classic. 
This is what I was trying to make 
it work for this audience now. 
What was the directorial concept 
of The Rivals? To Americanize 
it. . . .
By this time The Rivals was 
well into the third act. The mez
zanine dressing room is over the 
stage of the Fine Arts theatre and 
the performance was audible 
throughout his discussion. A sound 
resembling a human early-waming-siren pierced even the 
casual commotion of the dressing 
room. It was June Golub as Mrs. 
Malaprop reacting to the news 
that a man she adores is about 
to endanger his life in a duel. The 
audience was enjoying the scene 
and applauded it warmly.
I think the show will get bet
ter now. The first performance 
was the first time for too many 
things, but now I think its more 
successful. Its going to be a good 
show tonight. I saw the show 
that Saturdy night, and it was 
good, much better than it had 
been opening night.
I dont think a show has to be 
ready opening nightor at least 
not finished. You should be able 
to make mistakes here (in uni-, 
versity theatre), because theres 
no place else to make mistakes. 
You cant make mistakes in New 
York, so you have to make them 
at Carnegie Tech.
Now that Word Baker has had a 
chance to make mistakes with 
Sheridans Rivals, that production 
with Hermione Gingold, Bert Lahr, 
and Zero Mostel just might be 
the hit of a future New York 
season.
Were moving ahead fast... so can you!
To arrange a campus interview with a H representative NOV. 4th , contact your placement officer. If interview inconvenient 
at this time, write Jack Troster, Dept. 000, Box 5474, Texas Instruments, Dallas, Texas 75222. AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
DIGITAL SYSTEMSTI systems exhibit 
a high level of innovation in optimiz
ing design to meet unique environ
mental and information handling 
problems. TI has solved such prob
lems as: processing and storing infor
mation collected bv a camera photo
graphing Mars, handling information 
needed to automate a manufacturing 
process, and testing complex elec
tronic circuitry. Shown above is a 
highlv sophisticated digital computer 
for airborne applications.
METALLURGICAL MATERIALSTI sci
entists helped solve the silver short
age problem by cladding dissimilar 
metals together to form a new mate
rial that has the properties unattain
able with any single alloy. Coins 
struck from the new material, made 
without silver, are accepted by vend
ing machines built to accept only the 
traditional silver coins.
SEMICONDUCTOR MATERIALSNew
semiconductor materials such as 
those developed by TI from gallium 
arsenide will be used in the manu
facture of infrared light emitters for 
switching, communications and ter
rain illumination.
MANAGEMENT SCIENCES-TI is cur
rently developing a comprehensive, 
company-wide business system that 
will meet rapidly growing require
ments and will take advantage of 
almost explosive new developments 
in information handling technolo
gies. Business systems at TI start 
with the needs of individual man
agers. For a system to work, the 
managers must know what to expect 
from it and how to use it; and sys
tems planners must know specific 
management requirements.
So, at TI, opportunities are excel
lent for graduate students trained in 
management sciences.
LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION OF SEMI
CONDUCTOR CIRCUITSWith LSI,
more than a thousand component 
equivalents can be packed into a 
single tiny unit less than two inches 
square. Ultimately, this component 
density may be increased 10-fold and 
more, providing superior electronic 
functions for many industrial and 
military applications.
COHERENT OPTICS TECHNOLOGYLaser display developed by TI solves 
display problems created by the rapid 
growth in complexity of command 
and control systems. Laser displays 
can handle large volumes of data in 
real time displays that are bright, 
wall size, in full color, of high reso
lution, and highly flexible.
RADAR TECHNOLOGY-A completely 
new radar concept developed by TI 
eliminates the need for a high power 
microwave source and for all mov
ing parts. MERA (microelectronic 
radar) will operate far more reliably 
than the most advanced conventional 
radar and will provide new perform
ance capabilities as well.
SPACE SYSTEMSInvolved in initial 
planning of the Mariner IV, TI devel
oped the instrumentation to measure 
the magnetic field of Marsone of 
the major scientific experiments of 
that mission. Now TI has developed 
the capability to plan a complete 
interplanetary probe.
SIGNAL PROCESSINGTI, the worlds 
largest digital processor of seismic 
information, developed advanced sig
nal processing systems used in detec
tion of nuclear explosions and earth
quakes, as well as in the search for 
oil. Today, TI operates several major 
processing centers in the US, Canada, 
England and the Middle East.
Creative skills in many advanced technologies have helped Texas Instruments 
double in size about every three years for the past two decades. The technolo
gies illustrated here represent important TI activities . . . diverse, yet uniquely 
compatible. All have as a common bond a high level of innovation ... by 
creative people working in a creative environment.
TIs growth and diversity offer exceptional opportunities for outstanding col
lege graduates at all degree levels and in many disciplines:, *
SEMICONDUCTOR MATERIALS
MANAGEMENT SCIENCES METALLURGICAL MATERIALS
SIGNAL PROCESSINGSEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUITS COHERENT OPTICS
SPACE SYSTEMSMICROELECTRONIC RADAR
LEWIS
Salfs-H^pni r 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIED 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 2, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 11
I M REVIEW
Kem Malley runs around end for ATO In their vitory over PKA.
(Continued from Page 12)
In the fourth quarter, SAE put 
on a fantastic offensive show. Aft
er holding the Betas for four 
straight plays on the SAE 11- 
yard line, Rine led his club to a 
quick touchdown drive climaxed 
by a five-yard touchdown pass to 
Pitman. After stopping the Betas 
cold following the kickoff, Rine 
ran for two quick points. Then, 
with first and ten on the Beta tenyard line and the clock running 
out, three straight pass plays fell 
incomplete and the game ended 
^ with the Betas squeaking by with 
a 20-16 victory.
SemifinalsPiKA vs Bandits
The game started with PiKA 
receiving the opening kickoff. 
Then, for 16 straight minutes, 
neither team could muster much 
of an offensive attack. Crucial in
terceptions and stiff g o al 1 i n e 
k stands by both teams held the 
scoring to a minimum. The half 
finally came to a close with PiKA 
leading by a slim 3-1 margin.
The Bandits took the opening 
kick of the second half and on 
gogd running and short passes by 
quarterback Becker drove down 
to the PiKA seven-yard line. 
There, the PIKA defense held 
and the Bandits were forced to 
give up the ball on downs. A 
long bomb from PiKA quarter
back Sabella brought his team to 
the Bandit 10-yard line. Two plays 
later, Sabella ran for the first 
touchdown the day by either 
team. The third quarter ended 
with PiKA leading by a 10-3 score.
In the fourth quarter, penalties 
and a bad snap from center hurt 
a Bandit scoring drive and gave 
PiKA the ball at about the Bandit
20-yard line. Sabella quickly
scored the second PiKA TD with 
a touchdown toss to Cash. The 
Bandits came back soon after
wards with a first down followed 
~ by their first and only touchdown
* of the day. At this point, the
game ended with PiKA the victor 
by a 18-9 score, thus giving them 
the right to meet ATO in the fin
als.
Scoring
PiKA 2 17 818
Bandits 1 0 2 6 9
\I SemifinalsATO vs Beta
Last Wednesday a tough ATO 
team surprised Beta Theta Pi 
in the semifinals of the IM foot
ball playoffs. From early in the 
first quarter, when the ATO de
fense held Beta for three plays 
when the latter team was withI in five yards of a touchdown, to 
Y early in the fourth period, when 
Betas offense came to life, the 
game was dominated by ATO. The 
naif time score was 14-2 in favor of 
ATO and after three periods had 
been completed, the game seemed 
to be out of Betas reach. But 
after Bob Livengood had run 35 
yards for a touchdown when his 
receivers were covered, and had 
M thrown a 50-yard TD pass the 
next time he touched the ball, 
the score stood at 16-16 with 
less than two minutes remain
ing. . . .
Beta kicked off after this secnd touchdown, and after two 
plays Livengood picked off an 
ATO pass and ran it to the ATO 
P 14-yard line. But the tough ATO 
defense held back the charge, 
forcing four striaght incomplete 
passes and getting back the ball. 
I Then a short pass over the midI die caught Beta with its defen
ders in the deep secondary and 
went for 20 yards and an ATO 
first down with only nine seconds 
left. Score ATO 17, Beta 16. In 
those nine seconds ATO not only 
scored a touchdown (for six more 
points) but also had enough time 
to kick off to BTP and give them 
one play from scrimmage! In any 
case the final score read ATO 23,
BTP 16.
Scoring
ATO 7 7 0 923
BTP 1 1 1 1316
Championship  ATO vs PiKA
In the championship game be
tween PiKA and ATO, ATO was 
the victor in a close 25-20 contest. 
PiKA struck early in the first
quarter on a long pass to Cash.
ATO then came back in the sec
ond quarter on an electrifying run 
by Kem Malley. The score was 
8-6 in favor of ATO at the half.
ATO widened its lead in the 
third quarter on a pass play. 
However, PiKA came back to 
knot the score at 13-13 on two first 
downs and a touchdown run by 
Sabella. On the ensuing kickoff, 
Malley for ATO ran the ball all 
the way back for a touchdown. 
The third quarter ended with 
ATO leading 18-14.
ATO opened the scoring in the 
final quarter, scoring a first down 
and then a touchdown, making 
the score 24-14 ATO. This proved 
to be the margin of victory for 
ATO as PiKA scored another 
touchdown only to fall short by 
the final score of 26-20.
Tennis
Plaid League
This weeks action featured a 
battle for first place between
powerful Sigma Nu and the EJs 
B team. After losing the dou
bles, the EJs rallied behind Fred 
Kuo and Brian Sales to take un
disputed possession of the top 
spot by a 2-1 margin. In other 
action, SN defeated TX 2-0 and 
BSR 3-0, BTP won over DTD 2-1 
and BSR 2-1, by losing to DTD 
2-0.
Standings (Oct. 20)W L
EJs B4 0
BTP2 0
SN3 1
DTD2 1
GSIA B0 2
Grad Nads AA0 2
TX0 2
BSR0 3
Tartan League
The Grad Nads A and EJs 
A both remained undefeated to 
share first place. The Grad Nads 
topped GSIA E 2-1 and the 
EJs A smothered SAE 3-0: 
TDP evened its record at 1-1 
while dropping the EJs C team 
in the cellar by a score of 2-0.
Standings (Oct. 20)W L
Grad Nads A3 0
EJs A2 0
PKT1 1
TDP1 1
SAE Lions1 2
Football ?..
(Continued from Page 12)
on the Tech 47 and returned it 
to the twenty-five. Then quar
terback Jim Magee ran for eight 
yards and passed to Greg Seagrave for the remaining seven
teen. Terry Otterman made the 
kick and at halftime it was all 
tied up 7-7.
Thiel Grabs Lead
The third quarter was no go 
for both teams as the ball chang
ed hands eight times with only 
two first downs. But the first 
time Thiel got the ball in the 
fourth quarter they meant busi
ness. They took over on a punt 
at their own 32 and marched to 
paydirt in four first downs and 
eleven plays, highlighted by a 
32 yard pass play from Larry 
Muckle to end George Green. The 
kick was again good and Thiel 
took the lead 14-7.
Tech started to move after the 
kickoff as Zak returned it ten 
yards and Batorski broke and 
ran for 27. It all ended through 
when Jim Baird picked off a 
Hubka pass and returned it 63 
yards. Thiel however, the victim 
of a fifteen yard penalty, was 
unable to capitalize on the play 
and was forced to punt. The 
punt went out of bounds and 
Tech took over on its own six 
yard line. Tech then moved the 
ball sixty-nine yards, the long
est gain being an over-the-line 
pass to Chemay that went for 
25 yards. This added to a fifteen 
yard penalty put Tech on the 
Thiel ten with first and goal to 
go. But the goal was never reach
ed as Hubka failed to complete 
four straight passes and Thiel 
took over on downs. The game 
ended Thiel 14 C.I.T. 7.
Offense Looked Poor
The main reason for the up
set was the Tartan offense, which 
looked extremely poor Saturday. 
Tom Hubka completed only 15 
out of 39 passes, several times 
grossly overthrowing a clear re
ceiver, for a .385 average, far 
below his season average of .561. 
The combined rushing of Getto 
Batorski, and Zak only totaled 89 
yards, by far not the best of the
season. The blocking was poor 
throughout the game as runners 
and the passer were given be
low average protection, and in 
the first quarter Techs timing on 
the count and the hike made it 
look like the team had never 
played ball together before. All 
things accounted for the offense 
did one lousy job.
Thiel now stands 2-2-1 having 
beaten Tech and Case, tied Beth
any, and lost to Westminister 
and W. and J. Next week Tech 
travels to Westminister to again 
try for number five and then 
ends the season the following 
week at W. and J.
Statistics
TechThiel
14First Downs 8
89Yards Rushing 88
187Yards Passing 85
15-39Passes 6-15
2Had intercepted 0
1Fumbles lost 2
9-36.6Punts 13-34.5
GSIA...
(Continued from Page 8)
iginal idea of public debate back 
into the guidepost framework.
Dr. Joseph based his talk on 
a paper, delivered recently at 
the University of Pennsylvan
ias Wharton School of Eco
nomics, which traced the his
tory of the guideposts from the 
fall of 1961 to the present.
Dr. Joseph joined Techs fac
ulty in 1948. He was senior staff 
economist on the Council of Eco
nomic Advisors under both Presi
dent Kennedy and President 
Johnson, concerned with wageprice policies and industrial re
lations. He has written widely 
on labor relations issued, has 
been an arbitrator in many labormanagement dispute and has 
done research in the sociological, 
economic and political aspects 
of industrial relations and col
lective bargaining.
0 1 
0 3
You're under 25but kPr drive like an expert.
Why should you have to pay 
extra for your car insurance?
Sentry says you may 
not have to. A simple questionnaire could save 
you up to $50 or more.
Call the Sentry man 
for fast facts.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE.
> 795-1393SENTRY if INSURANCE
GSIA E 
EJs C
Creativity and 
Craftsmanship in Diamonds
OneofAmri
 F E A
SHAPED
When you give her a diamond 
choose it wisely with the
professional help of 1__). Boss
Company. Mr. Boss will person
ally explain  the important 
points you must consider  
when youre selecting that 
diamond ri ng.
To further assist you 
write or stop far your 
Free booklets The 
DayYou Buy a Diamond" 
and Gift Catolog  
Onceyou decide on your diamond 
L.J. Boss Company will design 
your ring especially for you with 
no additional charge.
L.J. BOSS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 2, 1966
HARRIERS REMAIN UNBEATEN
Tartans Down Waynesburg,
Westminster In Home Meets
by Don Baer
The Carnegie Tech cross-country team continued its undefeated streak last week by 
downing Waynesburg and Westminster. Last year both teams defeated the Tartans there
by stopping a 8-year 24-meet undefeated streak. This years Tech team, bolstered by a 
years experience and some new faces, defeated the very same Waynesburg team 20-30 
and then trounced Westminster 20-40.
Waynesburg came into the contest with an 18-meet win streak at stake and a chance
to break the Tartans 5-year win record at home. Their star soph, Doug Crouse, had
broken many local course rec- M-tfnft.
ords and the team blanked sever- >- , , *'
al of its opponents. However, the 
Tartans, led by co-captain H.
Burkholder, showed too much 
overall strength for the Waynes
burg team.
Crouse captured first place as 
expected. He was followed by 
the Tech co-captains, Burkholder 
and Cairns, and soph, Flynn.
Waynesburgs Griffon beat out 
frosh John Butler for fourth 
place Griffons teammates took 
seventh through 10th places and 
Dale Peschel finished 11 and com
pleted the Tech scoring.
The Westminster meet proved 
somewhat less interesting than the 
earlier meet. Their team was 
somewhat weaker, due to gradua
tion, than last years. Techs co
captains took the first two places 
while Westminsters Gregory beat 
out Bernie Flynn for third. Craxton (Westminster) took fifth and 
Techs Levine and Peschel tied 
for sixth and completed the Tech 
scoring men.
Today Tech meets Bethany for 
the last meet of the year. Last 
year Bethany tied the Tartans.
Tech vs Westminster Results
Burkholder and Cairns pace Tech against Waynesburg.
D. Peschel 
K. Phillips 
Williams 
J. Butler
20 40
errWTech vs WaynesburgResults
H. Burkholderi23:27D. Crouse122:34
R. Cairns2:56H. Burkholder223:04
Gregory324:19R. Cairns3:18
Craxton5:55B. Flynn4:19
B. Flynn4:21J. Griffon524:06
E. Levine625:20J. Butler6:09
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON
Tartan Sports Editor
Probably you are curious about the recent increase in coverage 
that the cross-country team has been given. The reason, of course, 
that they are getting it is simply that they deserve it. Our harriers 
have year after year mounted up the most impressive record in Tar
tan sports, and this year is no exception. To date, the Tartans are 
undefeated with only one contest remaining and have virtually as
sured themselves of once again picking up the best win-loss record 
for Tech in a sport.
Last week, the Tartans defeated the team that many experts 
had considered the best in the state, Waynesburg College. Going 
into the meet, the Waynesburg squad was riding a 17-game winning 
streak and were well aware that the Tartans would like nothing 
better than to break their win skein, and the Tartans did just that. 
In downing Waynesburg and then trouncing Westminster, the Tech 
Harriers set themselves up as the undisputed champions of the area. 
It is doubtful that even the mighty Pitt Panthers could give the 
Tartans much of a contest, for both teams run the same course and 
the Tartans times have consistently been better.
The harriers are paced by their co-captains Harry Burkholder 
and Roger Cairns and sophomore Bemie Flynn. Burkholder, who was 
the first person ever to be named most valuable player three conse
cutive times, appears well on his way to number four. He has con
sistently led the Tartans to victory after victory and is one of the 
most outstanding athletes in Carnegie Tech. Cairns has been the big 
consistency factor for Tech for the past couple of years, and con
tinues to be so. Flynn is the young blood that the Tartan so sorely 
needed to replace the big loss of Chris Macosko. Bemie has proven 
himself to be a fine runner, and it is he that must serve as the nucleum of next years squad. Jfm Butler and Kem Phillips also have 
done much more than their share in carrying Tech to victory.
Our harriers have once again shown themselves to be one of 
the best and I, along with all of my staff, would like to congratulate 
them on a job well done.
K. Merrins 
R. Wright 
P. Busti 
W. Suhl 
D. Peschel11
20
15
37
42
49
30 26
YMCA Discussion
A Saturday afternoon discussion 
group with a completely open 
agenda will begin November 5 
under YMCA direction. Those in
terested should meet at the Y 
office, Skibo 57, at 2 pm The dis
cussion will continue at an offcampus apartment until 4:30 pm.
Participants in this weeks dis
cussion will determine the pro
gram of the remainder of the 
bi-weekly meetings.
Tech Suffers Second Loss 
Of Season Against Thiel
by Ron Finnin
Thiel College came to Pittsburgh on Saturday having 
won only one of its four football games. They had to face 
Carnegie Tech with its impressive 4-1 record. Thiel had met 
the Tartans fourteen times since 1915 and Thiel hadnt won 
one yet. The results Saturday were not what anyone ex- a 
pected and certainly not what the Tech fans wanted. Thiel 
left Pittsburgh having won two out of five and left behind 
a dismal Tartan team which now 
stands 4-2. Tech has lost only to 
powerhouse Grove City and low
ly little Thiel.
Tech Scores First 
The game started with Tech 
receiving but the ball changed
w
of ten yards. Charles Zak added 
another five to make the first 
down of the game. Then a pitch 
cut to Ken Battorski, a flare pass 
to Zak, and a twenty-seven yard 
pass to Bell, caught after being 
deflected by a Thiel defender, 
moved Tech to its own 19 yard 
line. Tom Hubka then threw 
another pass to Bell, this one for 
the Touchdown. Joe Chemay ad
ded the extra point and with lit
tle less than five minutes left in 
the first quarter Tech led 7-0.
It was late in the second quar
ter before Thiel first managed 
to score. When Tech was forced 
to punt from deep in its own ter
ritory Larry Berry took the punt 
(Continued on Page 11) I
Tartan Photos by Mark Kaminsky
hands eight times before a first 
down was made. Then Rich Bell 
returned a punt from the seven 
to the twenty-nine from which 
Larry Get to carried for just shy
******* * ,
IM Review
Carnegie Technical |
ON SALE 
BAKER HALL 
11:30-1:30
FOOTBALL
Quarterfinals  SAE vs. BTP
The game began with SAE tak
ing the opening Beta kickoff and 
returning it to the 20-yd line. Un
able to move, they punted but 
the kick was blocked and Beta 
took over on the SAE 13-yd line. 
Two plays later, Zabetakis flip
ped to Lindberg for the TD.
After taking the Beta kickoff, 
SAE was still unable to advance 
the ball and again were forced to 
punt. Soon after, BTP had their 
second score of the quarter on a 
long touchdown pass from Zabe
takis to Livengood.
Early in the second quarter, 
the Betas scored again, this time
on a short pass-pattem from Za
betakis to Shuty which was run ? 
into the end zone. At this point 
SAE came alive. On the second 
play from scrimmage after the 
Beta kickoff, Pottmeyer gathered 
in a long bomb from Rine and 
raced into the end-zone for the 
first SAE score of the afternoon. 
The first half thus ended with 
BTP leading by a 17-7 score.
The third quarter showed little | 
action, with neither team being 
able to sustain a long drive. Two 
key interceptions by SAE and a 
fine goal-line stand by the Betas 
held the scoring to two first-down 
points.
(Continued on Page 11)
GOING TO NEW YORK?
For Thanksgiving Vacation Travel to New York by Chartered Bus. 
The bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, 
November 23 (to arrive at the Port Authority Terminal at 1:00 
a.m.) and will be returning from Sloane House (Y.M.C.A on 34th 
Street) at 3:00 p.m. on Sunday, November 27 (avoiding crowds and 
delays at the Terminal).
Write your check to Stephen Weinreich for $17.50 (Round Trip) 
or $10.00 (one way) and send it to Box 250, Campus Mail.
Ill see you on the bus.
STEVE WEINREICH 
Box 250
(No refunds for cancellations after November 19)
