Vol. 69, No.-Kr*CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITYTUESDAY, OCTOBER 88,-1969
Ambassadors, Musicians, Drama To Highlight 
Cultures In Contact: An African Symposium
by Mary Warren
Monday. Nov. 3. SPIRIT. C-MU's black student or
ganization and the International Club will begin ' Cultures 
in Contact. an African Symposium.
This week of activities will begin with a reception in 
the Lobby of Skibo at 7:30 p.m. At 8:30 that evening a 
production, entitled "Black without Blackness. will be 
presented in the ballroom. The production was written 
and directed by Leon Pinkney, a student in C-MU's Drama 
Department. The cast is composed of C-MU students.
Opening the second portion of the symposium will be 
Dr. Davidson Nicol. Ambassador Extraordinaire and 
Plenipotentiary. Permanent Representative of Sierra 
Leone to the United Nations.
Dr. Nicol is a native of Freetown. Sierra Leone, West 
Africa. He comes to C-MU with world-wide recognition. 
He has served as vice-president of the International So
ciety of African Culture in Paris, president (vice chancel
lor) of the University of Sierra Leone, president of the 
West African Science Honorary, fellow of the Ghana Aca
demy of Sciences, and fellow of Christ's College in Cam
bridge. England.
Dr. Nicol has also lectured at Yale University at the 
inauguration of President Kingman Brewster, at the Uni
versity of Lambia at the installation of President Kuunda 
as chancellor, at the Weizmann Institute in Rehovoth. Is
rael. and at Heidelberg University in Germany. He has 
spoken at the University of Ghana (Aggrey-Fraser-Guggisberg Memorial Lectures i and as a Danforth Lecturer 
of the Association of American Colleges. 1968-70.
Not only is Dr. Nicol a well-known lecturer and a 
much acclaimed person, he has also published many 
works, including Africaa Subjective View and Toward a 
World Order: an African Viewpoint. In preparation is 
African Self-Government, 1865: the Dawn of National
ism, 1968.
Recently it was discovered that Dr. Nicol is also a 
published poet. "Up-Country and "On an African Beach." 
in Insight: the Experience of Literature are just two of 
the beautiful poems that Dr. Nicol has written. All of his 
work is based on his own experiences.
Dr. Nicol is a man of many talents. He helped Dr. 
Fleming do research in Canada toward the discovery of 
pencillan. His versatility and successes speak for them
selves.
Rides Scheduled 
For Moratorium
Bus transportation to the Nov. 13-14 Vietnam Mora
torium has been arranged for Pittsburgh students and res
idents. Buses will be available for transportation to Wash
ington for the Nov. 13 March Against Death as well as for 
the Nov. 15 Mass Anti-War March.
Buses for the 13th will leave at 1 p.m. from the Ca
thedral of Learning at the University of Pittsburgh and 
will depart from Washington at 8 p.m. Nov. 15. Sleeping 
accommodations will be arranged.
For reservations, please contact: Pittsburgh Draft 
Kesistance. 3409 Fifth Ave.. Room 304. 682-6677.
Buses for the 15th Mass Anti-War March will be leav
ing Skibo parking lot at Carnegie-Mellon University at 5 
? a m. and will be departing from Washington at 8 p.m*. Res
ervations for this bus can be made at the table in Baker 
Hall this week and next or by contacting the Peace and 
Freedom Center. 618 S. Millva'le Ave.. 362-9000.
Those with their own transportation to Washington 
have been asked to call 687-6677 to let the Draft Resistance 
Office know that you are going so that they may relay the 
^formation to the Pennsylvania coordinator. The march 
and rally in Washington will be peaceful. No confrontation 
have or will be planned.
^ Students and teachers willing to help plan activities 
at C-MU before the march and also plan and advertise the 
march itself, should come to a meeting Monday. Nov. 3. 
4:30p.m.. Room 45.
Dr. Nicol's presentation. "Black Americans Contri
butions to Africa in the 19th Century. will be held in the 
Skibo Ballroom at 11:30 a.m. and will be followed by a 
luncheon and panel discussion at 12:30 p.m.
Wednesday. Nov. 5. the third part of "Cultures in 
Contact" will unfold. Dr. Halim El-Dabh. professor of 
musicology at Kent State University, will present "Afri
can MusicTribal and National. This presentation will 
take place at 3:30 p.m. in the Wherret Room. He will also 
demonstrate African instruments.
Born in Ciaro. Egypt. Dr. El-Dabh has traveled and 
worked in Africa much of his life. He holds degrees from 
Cairo University. New England Conservatory. Brandeis 
University, and is an alumni of the Berkshire Music Cen
ter.
Dr. El-Dabh has done in depth research in the field of 
African music as well as African studies, having received 
many fellowships to study, travel and collect music in 
East. North and West Africa.
In 1959 and again in 1961. Dr. El-Dabh received 
the Guggenheim Fellowship for creative work.
He is also a published author: among his works are 
Composer of OperasSymphonies and Theatre Work. His
As the result of mounting criticism of ROTC pro
grams on college campuses throughout the nation, three 
actions were taken within the past few weeks by various 
branches of the federal government. As one branch urged 
universitites to become even more involved in ROTC pro
grams. another branch threatened to withdraw ROTC 
units and Defense Department funds is they do not.
In three developments:
A special committee on ROTC. appointed by Secre
tary of Defense Melvin R. Laird, urged institutions to take 
a more active role in devising ROTC curriculums and in 
appointing ROTC instructors.
A House Armed Services subcommittee said it was a 
waste of time to keep ROTC programs on campuses where 
resistance to them is high, and recommend removing the 
program and cutting off Defense Department funds to 
such campuses.
The House of Representatives passed a military pro
curement bill that requires the Defense Department to 
file reports to Congress 60 days before awarding any re
search contract or grant to a college or university. The 
reports would summarize the institution s cooperation in 
all military and defense matters.
The Pentagon's ROTC committee was chaired by 
George C. S. Benson, former president of Claremont 
Men's College and currently the Pentagon's director for 
ROTC affairs.
Mr. Benson said that the committee's most impor
tant conclusion was a strong reaffirmation of the need for 
the ROTC program. The committee's report said that both 
public and private institutions had an obligation to take 
part in ROTC programs in the interest of national secur
ity.
Also, the committee recommended a rewording of 
the ROTC Vitalization Act of 1964 to "indicate a coopera
tive effort between the armed services and the universi
ties in developing the ROTC curriculum.
Under the act. institutions must accept curriculums 
prescribed by the Pentagon. The committee said that the 
military must be able to determine the basic educational 
requirements for receiving a commission, but universi
ties should have a role in deciding how those requirements 
should be met.
Roger T. Kelly, assistant secretary for manpower 
and reserve affairs, emphasized that universities already 
have the authority to accept or reject military officers 
who were appointed to teaching positions in ROTC pro
grams.
Currently, most colleges and universities share the 
cost of ROTC programs with the Defense Department. 
The salaries of military instructors are paid by the mili
tary.
latest work was commissioned by Howard University and 
is entitled "Black Epic." for courses in African musical 
instruments.
Before becoming professor of music at Kent State, 
Dr. El-Dabh was associate professor of music and Afri
can studies at Howard University and associate professor 
of music (Ethiopic studies) at Haile Selassie University in 
Ethiopia. Following his presentation at 5:30 p.m. in 
Room 100. Skibo. there will be a dinner and panel discus
sion with Dr. El-Dabh.
Later that evening, at 8 in the Ballroom, the spotlight 
of the symposium focuses on "Black Rap No. 1: a Black 
Students Fairy Tale. The production was written by 
Anthony Payne, a student in C-MUs Drama Department, 
and directed by Bill Charles, a student and instructor in 
the department.
These are just some of the events designed for edu
cation and entertainment during the week-long symposi
um. The luncheon with Dr. Nicol and dinner with Dr. ElDabh are on a reserved seat basis, with opportunities for 
questions during the meals.
The events are open to eveyone. The meals are free 
with passes needed only by non-university students for the 
meals and evening events.
Students have been assisted with scholarships and 
subsistence allowances from the armed services, while 
the institutions have provided facilities, secretarial staffs 
and general overhead.
Mr. Kelley and Mr. Benson said that the Pentagon 
was not concerned that the phasing out of ROTC programs 
in some Ivy League schools posed a threat to the program. 
Only Harvard. Columxia and Dartmouth are in the pro
cess of phasing out ROTC units, Mr. Kelly said.
However, a number of other institutions have remov
ed or are considering removal of academic credit for 
ROTC.
Mr. Kelley said that universities should be told. 
"Here is what ROTC is. . . . If they dont like it, they 
should pull out of the ball game.
The Pentagon said there are now ROTC programs on 
364 campuses. ROTC produces more than one-half of the 
regular officers in the military services. Last year ROTC 
produced 16.415 commissioned officers for the Army, 2,- 
040 for the Navy, and 4,977 officers for the Air Force.
The officials said they had no figures on whether there 
had been a decline in ROTC enrollments this past year. 
Mr. Benson said he believed the total enrollment this year 
would be as great as it was last year.
In the Philadelphia area, however, where two of six 
colleges have ended compulsory ROTC, enrollments this 
year are 48.1 per cent below last year. The University of 
Oregon also reported that freshmen enrollments in Army 
ROTC dropped 70 per centfrom 123 last year to 35 thi 
year.
Nationally. Army ROTC enrollment dropped from 
165.430 in 1967-68 to 150,928 in 1968-69.
Mr. Kelleys recommendation to campuses that do 
not want to take part in ROTC programs was seconded by 
a House Armed Services subcommittee, chaired by Rep
resentative Hebert. The subcommittee said units should 
be removed from these campuses and assigned to institu
tions which have applied for ROTC units.
The subcommittee said the Pentagon should remove 
funds from institutions that do not cooperate in military 
efforts. If the department does not take actions "we sug
gest legislation to accomplish this proposal.
There was no debate in the House on the procurement 
bill s provision requiring a report to Congress on an insti
tutions cooperation in military matters. In its report on 
the bill, the Armed Services Committee said "that when 
the scientific efforts are believed to be equal at several in
stitutions . . . research projects should be placed in uni
versities which are cooperating fully with the Department 
of Defense in the national defense efforts.
Laird Urges ROTC Program

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANFriday, October 31, 1969
LETTERS TO THE EDITORAll Urged To Participate 
In the African Symposium
EDITORIAL
Next week, SPIRIT, the Black student organization on cam
pus and the International Club will present the African Symposi
um, Cultures in Contact.
The Symposium has several purposes. Because the Univer
sity does not adequately meet its responsibility to educate most 
students in non-Western, especially African, cultures, the pro
gram will be an attempt to fill these gaps in the curriculum. Too 
many Americans hold misinformed, preconceived notions about 
Africa. The Symposium, by bringing experts on African studies 
to the campus as well as by employing the expertise on our own 
campus, will begin to encourage the study of Africa in the Uni
versity. Hopefully, the programs effects will eventually mater
ialize in a more comprehensive Black studies program.
The Symposium has also been designed to bring to both 
Black and white Americans an awareness of Africas rich cul
tural traditions. This awareness is critical in todays situation 
of critical racial tensions.
A third purpose is to educate Americans about African his
tory, especially since the past few decades have seen the rise of 
so many African nations. If we, as Americans, are to communi
cate effectively, knowledgeably and peacefully with these new 
countries, we must come to an understanding of the African 
past.
One of the most important ways to begin bridging the gap 
between white and Black America is to become educated by 
Blacks as to how they perceive themselves, especially in rela
tion to their African heritage.
Next week all members of the C-MU community will have 
the unique opportunity to participate in the Symposium and learn 
from African studies experts, as well as from our own students. 
Dignitaries such as Ambassadors Davidson Nicol, permanent 
representative to the United Nations from Sierra Leone, and E. 
M. Debrah, ambassador extraordinaire and penitpotentiary of 
Ghana to the United States, will be here to speak about African 
history and its relationship to Afro-Americans. Carnegie-Mellon 
students will dramatically present their attitudes, emotions 
and opinions in student-written productions throughout the week
In this decade of tension between races, SPIRIT and the In
ternational Club have worked long and hard to design a program 
to encourage understanding by all Americans of the identity of 
the Afro-American.
We urge everyone to participate in the weeks events. Itwould be a sad testimonial of the Universitys concern with the 
society outside if a capacity crowd were not attracted to all the 
scheduled programs.
OLATUNJI 
DRUMS OF PASSION
TQRlON
Published every Tuesday and Friday. Editorial and Business offi
ces: Skibo 103, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Telephone: 682-4557.
ERICA BORDEN 
Editor-in-Chief
Associate Editor...................................................................................Nancy Madsen
Business Manager......................................................................................Sue Cattano
News Editors......................................Jenifer Digby and Jamie Edlin
Features Editor............................................... ...........................Robert Rastelli
Sports Editors.........................................................Alan Letzt and Larry Brean
Desk Editor..............................................................................................Harriet Nadel
Copy Editor...................................................................................................Sue Gordon
Layout Editor..........................................................................................Wayne Barron
Photography Editor............................................................................William Pence
Assistant Features Editor................................................................Chuck Daly
Assistant Layout Editor.................... .......................................Timothy Sullivan
Assistant Photography Editors..............Chas. Coleman and Joe Tyler
Local Advertising Managers................................Peggy Herman and Vic
Lovuola
National Advertising Manager................................................Beverly Noretsky
News Staff: Patricia McDonald, Pam Horner, Sue Shilane, Larry Stir
ling, Murray Singer, Meredith Hall.
Secretarial Staff: Janice Herman, Sally Foss
Layout Staff: Beth Anne Haner, Sharon Morgan, Ralph Pritts, Paul 
Synder Mark Vogel, Jeff Green, Bob Hana, Chuck Daly.
Liberal Facade Doesn't Cloak Racist Attitudes
Editor, The Tartan:
There is a peculiar attitude that 
is common among the liberal stu
dents of C-MU and that is the at
tempt to rationalize away any ra
cist attitudes that may inadver
tently slip through their liberal 
facades. Last week a Confederate 
flag was flown from one of the fra
ternity houses. The flag was flown 
not only across the street from a 
dorm occupied by a number of 
black students, but when they re
acted to this symbol of oppression 
and slavery they were told that 
they were in the wrong! There 
was an article in last weeks Tar
tan about the incident. It was writ
ten by one of the fraternity broth
ers who happened to let his liberal 
facade crack and therefore it was 
written in a purely defensive man
ner. Lets observe cold facts first.
On Sunday, morning. Oct. 19. 
two black students asked two fra
ternity brothers, who were wash
ing cars outside the fraternity 
house, who the flag belonged to 
and asked that it be taken down. 
When asked, by one of the frat 
brothers, such an assinine ques
tion as Why? they replied. "If 
you dont know why let it stay up 
there!" The two black students 
left and at no time entered the 
fraternity house as reported by 
Pete Principle last week in the 
Tartan. And at no time did the 
two students threaten to take it 
down.
That night at about 8:30. a group 
of black students entered the frat 
house and requested that the 
flag be taken down. Let me make 
it clear that at no time did any 
black student threaten any frat 
brother. Then came the typical 
liberal comments: We sort of 
have the right to do what we want 
in our own house.. I kind of did
nt like it either. and the most 
original. I didn't even know it 
was up. At this point the black 
students said. Thank you. and 
left.
Let Me In!
Editor. The Tartan:
It would be presumptuous for 
someone who knows as little as I 
do about the programs bv Mar
garet Morrison College for Wom
en to express an opinion as to 
whether the College should be re
tained at the University. But if 
the College is to be kept, if its 
programs are judged worthwhile, 
they should be open to men as well 
as to women. It may be that few 
men enter the vocations for which 
MMCC prepares its students, but 
perhaps this reflects only their in
ability to prepare for them. And 
might not the opening of the pro
gram to men eliminate the prob
lem of sagging enrollment? We 
know that few women become en
gineers. but it would be wrong to 
exclude women from engineering 
departments: women who wish to 
study engineering should be free 
to do so. and men who wish to be
come dieticians should also be 
able to do so.
One of the reasons that wages 
tend to be low in occupations 
where women predominate is that 
women are not expected to be able 
to support a family on their in
come. as men are; women s 
wages are usually seen as a sup
plement to a mans income. This 
can lead to serious hardship when 
a woman is single, especially 
when she has to support others. 
If men entered these fields in sub
stantial numbers, the wage levels 
might be expected to rise. Elim> 
ination of sexual discrimination 
in MMCC could contribute to this.
David F. Greenberg
Lets study some of the com
ments. The frat brothers felt they 
had a right to do whatever they 
wanted in their house even if it 
included flying a provocative sym
bol of oppression in the faces of 
the people who were enslaved un
der that banner. If the black stu
dents flew a Nazi flag. I'm sure 
half the campus would react ac
cordingly. One student comment
ed that he sort of didn't like it 
either. but he submereged his 
dislike because he really didn't 
give a damn. That attitude runs 
through this whole campus. How 
many white students saw the flag 
and just kept on walking?
It is an odd quirk in the attitude 
of the person that has been caught 
with his racism showing, that he 
must immediately rationalize and 
defend against any action that 
may be the result of his racism.
Give Blood!
Editor. The Tartan:
Comparing my experience in 
the three blood drives in which I 
have participated. I found the con
sent form of the C-MU Blood 
Drive entirely standard and com
parable to the others; there is no 
reason at all for the undue concern 
expressed by Mr. Kogelman in 
his letter to the Tartan of Oct. 28. 
On the other hand. I found the don
or medical qualification standards 
of the C-MU drive to be extraordi
narily strict and illustrative of the 
concern shown by the Central 
Blood Bank of Pittsburgh for the 
well-being of its donors. The Pitts
burgh Bank operates under medi
cal ruleswhich are. in some re
spects, tougher than the Red Cross 
rules under which I have given in 
other drives.
Our sffety assured, let me note 
that the percentage response of 
C-MU students to their blood drive 
is downright paltry compared to 
the response seen in other collegi
ate and industrail blood drives 
around the United States. Students 
who are anxious to increase the 
University's contribution to the 
community might take note.
John Niles 
MS Program. GSIA
Restricted Use
Editor. The Tartan:
I would like to know what right 
the Homecoming Committee has 
to take over my school. Skibo is 
supposed to be for the students' 
use. not just for students (and 
probably non-students i who buy 
Homecoming tickets. I've helped 
pay for and keep Skibo running. It 
doesn't necessitate ten dollars 
more to maintain its high stan
dard of organization.
When I'm told that I'm unable 
to enter my Student Union because 
I didn't buy a ticket. I question the 
school s right in limiting my activ
ities. If the school cant find a way 
to hold its homecoming without 
prohibiting the entrance of non
ticket holding studentstough.
Ira Purgalin 
AMS. 71
Such was the case of the article in 
last week's Tartan.
Last week Mr. Principle wrote. 
Black racism is as bad as white 
racism. We should all be more 
concerned with creating an atmos
phere of free discussion and ac
ceptance than with trying to blot 
out an opinion because it offends 
us.
It is the mentality of some peo
ple to believe that because black 
people unite against a definitely 
racist act they are also racists. If 
racist means stopping attitudes 
that have oppressed black people 
for 300 years, then I am a racist. 
Mr. Principle is so couched in his 
own benevolence that his concern 
with "creating an atmosphere of 
free discussion and acceptance 
is only valid as long as it perpet
uates the same problems that 
have for so long existed. If flying 
a Confederate flag creates an at
mosphere of free discussion, then 
consider the next riot as just a 
summer love in. If he means 
acceptance as acceptance of 
oppressive attitudes, then I want 
no part of "acceptance. Some 
people will continue to try to hide 
reality and until we face it there 
will continue to be conflicts on 
campus and across the country.
Bro. Garv Scott 
PTTP
Symposium
Monday, November 3
7:30 p.m. *Opening reception. 
Lobby.
8:30 p.m. * Black Without 
Blackness. Ballroom, by Leon 
Pinkney.
Tuesday, November 4
11:30 p.m. Ambassador Nichol. Ballroom, "Black Americas 
Contributions to Africa in the 19th 
Century.
12:30 p.m. Lunch with Dr. Nicol. 
Wherrett Room.
Wednesday, November 5
3:30 p.m. Prof. El-Dabh. Wher
rett Room. "African MusicTri
bal and National.
5:30 p.m. Dinner with Prof. ElDabh. Room 100.
8 p.m.  Black Rap No. 1. 
Ballroom, by Tony Payne and Bill 
Charles.
Thursday, November 6
11:30 a.m. Ambassador E.
M. Debrah. Ballroom. "Nation 
Building in West Africa."
12:30 p.m. Luncheon with Mr. 
Debrah. Wherrett Room.
Friday, November 7 
11:30 a.m. Prof. Richard
Stevens, Wherrett Room, The 
Relevance of African Studies to 
the American Scene.
12:30 p.m. Luncheon with
Prof Stevens, Rooms 105-106.
1-5 p.m. Films, featuring 
Come Back, Africa, Wherrett 
Room, and a Tanzanian movie.
Saturday, November 8
8:30 p.m. Drums of Pas
sion. C-MU Gymn. with Olatunji.
Security
&
i)
Several rooms in Morewood Gardens were robbed on TuesIday afternoon. Chief Young of Campus Security said that most 
of those rooms burglarized were not locked. The suspect was 
followed to Mudge where he was almost apprehended in a room 
by a sleeping resident He was described as about 59, black, 
wearing an Afro haircut. Security has advised all students to 
keep their rooms locked so as to discourage the entry of wouldbe robbers.

---------------------------------------------------

Poetry Forum
Friday, October 31, 1969THE TARTANPag 3
Kizer, Smith Complementary
Students examine works of art at new student art gallery.
1500 Enjoy Gala Opening 
Of Woodlawn Art Gallery
by Jamie Edlin
Over a three-hour period, near
ly 1.500 people, clad in grand and 
festive garb, attended the gala 
opening of the Carnegie-Mellon 
University Student Art Gallery 
held on Sunday evening, Oct. 26. 
An assortment of guests, studdents, critics, faculty and admin
istration, patrons and public, en
joyed the opening show, consist
ing of paintings, drawings, prints, 
ceramics, metal crafts, weaving, 
and sculpture created by students 
throughout the University.
Visitors were amazed with the 
transition of the former pharmacy 
into an art gallery. Stark white 
walls, between grey ceilings and
a charcoal grey carpet, carry 
framed pieces and wall hangings. 
Low-lying sand boxes hold ceram
ics, while glass cases perched on 
pedestals display jewelry and 
trinkets.
With bongos beating in the back
ground. guests stolled through the 
gallery, enjoying the exhibit and 
the evening; they seemed excited 
about the gallery and eager for fu
ture developments. Plans are be
ing made now for feature exhibits 
such as a show displaying crafts 
and one exhibiting weaving.
This evening, Oct. 31, the gallerywill house a second opening, 
inviting the entire student body.
by Sue Shilane
On Tuesday. Oct. 21, the Inter
national Poetry Forum hosted two 
poets. Carolyn Kizer and William 
Jay Smith. As a pair. Miss Kizer 
and Mr. Smith worked well. While 
distinctively different poets, much 
of what was said ran complemen
tary and parallel. Their selec
tions provided a schema of satire, 
wit, humor, high seriousness and 
the purely nonsensical.
Dr. Clair, chairman of the Eng
lish Department at Duquesne Uni
versity. introduced Miss Kizer as 
a "lady poet and referred to 
some of her well-known predeces
sors: Anne Bradstreet, Emily 
Dickinson. Amy Lowell. As a con
temporary "lady poet." Miss Ki
zer generates her own power. Her 
selections to a large extent dealt 
with the experience of loss. "The 
Widow in Wintertime," is a mono
logue about the painful aloneness 
of a widow. "To Jane in Barmeria and its sequel "The Ita
lian Kittens" express what it 
feels like to be a woman who is no 
longer young. In "The Intruder." 
the situation of the mother and her 
odd assortment of pets records an 
amotional loss, the loss of pity and 
sympathy, and much more, of the 
loss of mother love when what 
was previously seen as pet or 
child becomes brutally revision
ed as self-surviving.
Though Carolyn Kizer spoke on 
the subject of loss, her poetry es
World Campus Afloat is a college that does more than broaden horizons. It sails to them and beyond.
Again in 1970, the World Campus Afloat 
program of Chapman College and Associated 
Colleges and Universities will take qualified 
students, faculty and staff into the world 
laboratory.
Chapman College now is accepting final 
applications for the next three consecutive 
semesters: Spring 1970, Fall 1970 and 
Spring 1971. Preliminary applications also 
may be made for all future semesters.
Fall semesters depart New York for ports 
in Western Europe and the Mediterranean, 
Africa and South America, ending in 
Los Angeles. Spring semesters circle the 
world from Los Angeles through the Orient, 
India and South Africa to New York.
For a catalog and other information, 
complete and mail the coupon below.
SAFETY INFORMATION: The s.s. Ryndam, 
registered in The Netherlands, meets 
International Safety Standards for new ships 
developed in 1948 and meets 1966 fire 
safety requirements.
Art student Leana Leach ot Long Beach 
sketches ruins of once-buried city during 
World Campus Afloat visit to Pompeii.
WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT 
Director of Student Selection Services 
Chapman College, Orange, Calif. 92666
Please send your catalog and any other material I need to have.
SCHOOL INFORMATION
Mr.MissMrs.

Last NameFirstInitial
Nam* of School
Campus AddressStreet
CityStateZtp
Campus Phone ( )
Area Cod
Year in School Approx. GPA on 4.0 Scale
HOME INFORMATION
Home AddressStreet
City"State Zip
Home Phone ( )
Area Code
.info should be sent to campus ? home ?UntiL approx. date
I am interested in ? Fall Spring ? 19---------
? I would like to talk to a representative of WORLD 
CAMPUS AFLOAT
capes the tag of "nostalgic and 
sentimental." One reason is her 
comman of imagery. She set up 
an analogy between woman and 
cat. With this symbol, the audi
ence was brought intensely "in
side" the speaker. The widow in 
"The Widow in Wintertime. hears 
a cat in the night outside in the 
snow. Yet. what is outside is only 
a stark reverberance of the wid
ow's own state of frustrated 
aloneness. The widow, for Miss 
Kizer. wakens "in a caterwaul of 
dying.
In case there was any doubt as 
to the status of "lady poets in 
our society. Miss Kizer read Sec
tion III of her poem "Pro Femina, a protest about the lot of the 
female composed in the difficult 
form of dactyllic hexameters. Sec
tion III dealt specifically with 
women of letters. A versatile sat
irist as well as lyricist, her con
clusion is that it is the ". . . luck 
of our husbands and lovers who 
keep free women.
Mr. Smith as poet is delightful
ly novel. His selections from his 
latest book of poems, Mr. Smith 
and Other Nonsense, brought the 
audience into the realm of "pure 
nonsense. Through his peom 
"The Floor and the Ceiling, he 
related the ups and downs of a 
particular floor and ceiling, hu
morously providing a commenta
tion on co-existence: "What is a 
floor/When the floor stands
alone?/What is a floor/When the 
ceiling has flown?
Like Edward Lear and Lewis 
Carroll, William Jay Smith is at 
home in the structures of non
sense. One form of nonsense Mr. 
Smith practices is the clerihew; a 
kind of name-game involving lit
erary and historical figures in
vented by Edward Clerihew Bent
ley (the author of Trents Last 
Case). With the clerihew, Mr. 
Smith provided delightful quips of 
Gertrude Stein, William Butler 
Yeats, and William Penn.
Besides selections of nonsense, 
Mr. Smith read some of his more 
dramatic, ironic, and satiric 
poems. Through The War in 
Sweden and American Primi
tive, he attacked our contempor
ary social values seen in terms of 
the dollar and the pill.
Currently, Miss Kizer is the 
literature consultant for the Na
tional Endowment for the Arts. 
An editor and translator as well 
as poet, she has pubcished two 
books of poetry, The Ungrateful 
Garden and Knock Upon Silence.
Besides being a poet, Mr. Smith 
is also a translator and critic. He 
is currently a consultant in poetry 
to the Library of Congress. He has 
published extensively. For a per
sonal introduction, see "How Re
warding to Know Mr. Smith in 
his most recent book of poems, 
Mr. Smith and Other Nonsense.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANFriday, October 31, 1969
Committee Reports to Secretary on ROTC 8
(Editor's Note: The following is 
an edited version of a report to the 
Secretary of Defense by the Special 
Committee on ROTC, submitted 
September 22, 1969.)
Before considering specific as
pects of ROTC which have either 
been under attack from outside 
the services or which have already 
been under reassessment by the 
services themselves, it is desir
able to discuss a basic question: 
Is it reasonable to ask institutions 
of higher education to participate 
in the preparation of officers for 
the armed forces?
Currently, ROTC is the only instructiona, program on campus 
whose curriculum and method of 
instruction is largely determined 
by an external source, and which 
prepares young men for a single 
employer.
It is recognized that certain pro
fessional societies do have a def
inite influence on curriculum mat
ters and that ROTC is not unique 
in this respect. Colleges and uni
versities, however, do elect 
whether they will invite the pro
gram. They are under no compul
sion to do so and they have the 
privilege to reject or discharge in
adequate ROTC instructors who 
do not meet their standards.
Furthermore, many adjustments 
of curriculum have been made or 
are proposed by the universities. 
Nonetheless, the program does 
have unique features in the aca
demic environment.
One Overriding Priority
In considering this unique re
lationship, one overriding prior
ity must be recognized, namely, 
the national security of the country. Closely related to it is the in
stitutions consideration of its 
students desire to prepare for
service.
Without national security we 
have no basis for pursuing our 
multiple and diverse activities.
The national government can 
properly look to public institu
tions, supported as they are by the 
taxpayer, to provide leadership 
in safeguarding the entire popula
tion.
Nor can the nation's privately 
supported universities be exempt
ed from a part in the responsibil
ity. Their tax-exempt status in it
self constitutes a notable govern
ment subsidy, and many of them 
receive extensive state and fed
eral subventions.
Where not bound by federal or 
state legislation, each institution 
must make its own decisions with 
regard to ROTC in accordance 
with its own processes and prior
ities, but in the interest both of 
national security and of general 
service to society, the committee 
believes that there is a strong 
case for the ROTC programs on 
the college and university cam
puses.
Strengthens Civilian Influence
Second, the most important ar
gument in the minds of this com
mitteeboth civilian and military 
membersis that officer educa
tion by means of ROTC on civilian 
campuses strengthens our tradi
tional civilian participation and 
influence upon the military, 
whereas alternative plans yield 
more to domination by the mili
tary organization acting on its 
own.
The American people have 
throughout their history relied on
two principles of organization to 
maintain civilian control of the 
military. We have tried to main
tain minimal armed forces and 
we have officered them with a sub
stantial proportion of men trained 
in civilian institutions. Although 
today we need larger forces, 
there seems little need to aban
don this traditional means of orip 
viding officer leadership for the 
military services.
If ROTC were to be removed 
from the nation's campuses there 
would be grave danger of isolat
ing the services from the intellec
tual centers of the publich which 
they serve and defend.
Indeed, in so far as some critics 
fear militaristic influence in 
the national defense system, op
position to ROTC is singularly in
appropriateits abolition would 
decrease civilian influence.
Interaction between civilian and 
military on campus is an impor
tant educational experience for 
cadets and midshipmen, and it is 
also a broadening experience for 
the ROTC instructional staff.
Responsibility to 
Share in Defense
With the close officer-cadet re
lationship noted on most cam
puses the officer-teacher is able 
to observe the student in the class
room. in other non-military activ
ities. as well as on the drill field 
and in technical courses. His rec
ommendation for a commission 
thus includes a well-rounded eval
uation of the candidate.
But the committee dpes believe 
that most American colleges and 
universities do have a responsib
ility to share in the defense of the 
free society of which they are a
part. It is to their own institution
al self-interest to contribute to 
the leadership of the armed forces.
The committee recognizes that 
there are a number of institutions 
where faculty and student senti
ment are such that these institu
tions should not strive to support 
a ROTC unit. There are other in
stitutions where, for practical 
reasons, students are not avail
able in adequate quantity to sup
porta unit.
The committee believes that if 
ROTC is to operate successfully 
it must be a viable partnership be
tween the services and the uni
versities. The recommendation on 
detailed problems which follow are 
all based on the theory of partner
ship between the military and the 
academic.
Recommendations
1. The committee has carefully 
considered various methods of of
ficer procurement alternative to 
ROTC. Although several alterna
tive methods can serve useful 
services, the committee recom-7 
mends that ROTC be continued as 
a major procurement source of 
officers for the Army, Navy and 
Air Force.
2. The committee believes that 
ROTC is a highly desirable meth
od of officer procurement for the 
United States of America. ROTC 
has the advantages of
Supporting American concepts 
of civilian-military relationships.
Providing a blend of civilian 
and military background for many 
young officers.
Therefore, the committee rec
ommends that the Department of 
Defense support ROTC by contin
uing to develop a viable partner
ship between the services and the 
universitites.
3. The committee recommends 
revision of the wording of the 
ROTC Vitalization Act of 1964 to 
indicate a cooperative effort be
tween the armed services and the 
universities in developing the 
ROTC curriculum.
4. The committee recommends 
that each host institution assume 
a great deal more responsibility 
for ROTC instruction, including 
the appointment or termination of 
appointment of ROTC staff. The 
committee reaffirms the policy 
that the military lassroom teach
ing should not be performed by 
non-commissioned officers.
5. The committee commends the 
services for the use of civilian fa
culties in some ROTC teaching and 
recommends further use of these 
faculties where possible.
6. The committee recommends 
that appropriate academic credit 
be given for ROTC courses. The 
ROTC program, especially the 
teaching materials, should be 
strengthened and improved to go 
along with other educational op
portunities. Credit should coninue 
to be determined by the host insti
tution. Faculty reviews of ROTC 
credit should be based upon expos
ure to the classroom itself, as well 
as to the review of materials.
7. The committee commends 
the services for their frequent and 
careful reconsideration of their 
curricula. It recommends more 
discussion by the services with 
individual universities, and more 
discretion to instructors.
8. The committee believes that 
uniforms and drill are a part of
the military profession and should 
remain on campus. It also be
lieves authority should be given 
the local ROTC units to determine 
how much drill should be taught.
9. The committee recommends  
that the question of appropriate 
academic rank for ROTC faculty 
members be resolved by institu
tional recognition that ROTC pro
grams have a place in the curri
culum and the acceptance of offi
cers in a faculty status appropri
ate to their teaching duties and 
qualifications.
10. The committee recommends ^ 
that ROTC be given the status of 
an academic program organized 
in the academic structure of the 
host institution. ROTC instructors 
should have full opportunity to 
participate in the academic life of 
the institution.
11. The committee recommends 
that each host institution establish 
a high level faculty-administration committee to oversee and 
work with the ROTC programs.
12. The committee strongly 
recommends that the federal gov
ernment pay for institutional 
costs of ROTC.
13. The committee recommends 
that every host institution list the ] 
ROTC units course offerings in 
an official publication equivalent 
to other curricular publications.
14. The committee recommends 
that the host institution actively 
support the ROTC units recruit
ing effort.
15. The committee recommends ^ 
that the Navy discontinue its con
tract requirement for non-schol
arship students in the first two 
years of a four year program.
16. The committee recommends 
that the Navy eliminate its bar 
against marriage of scholarship 
students.
17. The committee recommends 
that the number of scholarships 
be increased and that the summer 
training pay and monthly stipend 
for the last two years be increas
ed.
18. The committee recommends 
that a fraction of scholarships 
should be made available to two- ; 
year students.
19. The committee recommends 
that scholarship criteria and se
lection methods assure the serv
ices of high quality students from 
all classes of society.
20. The committee suggests S
that all three services have the 
same rule regarding marriage of 
cadets, scholarship holders and 
contracts, and posititve rules 
about majors.
21. The committee recommends
the establishment of an office 
in the Department of Defense to 
secure coordination of service 1
ROTC rules which may affect the 
relationship of ROTC as a whole 
within the academic world.
Secretary Melvin Laird has ap
proved all of the recommenda
tions of the committee with the ex
exception of recommendation 12.
In this case, he has deferred 
judgment pending a further study j
to determine the level of ROTC 
institutional costs.
AWEDNESDAY 
NOV. 5 9 P.M. ESTCBS-TV
Its new...its Sinatra all the way.
BUDWEISER  KING OF BEERS*  ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC.  ST. LOUIS 
NEWARK  LOS ANGELES  TAMPA  HOUSTON  COLUMBUS  JACKSONSVILLE

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, October 31, 1969THE TARTANPage 5
Group Meets To Aid 
fWomens Liberation
1969 THISTLES will be on Sale starting Mon
day in Baker Hall - $9.
Film Draivs Criticism
by Elayne Rapping
A new group called Pittsburgh's 
Womens Liberation has been 
meeting on alternate Mondays at 
5 p.m. in the Pitt Student Union. 
Composed of female students, fac
ulty members, university em
ployees and community residents, 
the group is working to eliminate 
the exploitation and oppression of 
women as a class in society.
Although they will address 
themselves to specific cases of 
economic and social injustice, 
they are most concerned with the 
underlying social forces and at
titudes and values they engender, 
pervade every major institution 
in our society. Beginning with the 
family unit itself, and continuing 
into the sfructure of the public 
schools and the universities, girls 
(and boys) are subtly but effec
tively channeled into highly re
strictive patterns of thought and 
feeling, which lead, ultimately, to 
adult activities and life styles 
based on social expectations 
rahter than individual ability or 
inclination.
The most obvious effects of this 
process are social and economic. 
Women hold relatively few posi
tions of authority or prestige, and 
those who do receive lower sal
aries and are less secure in their 
jobs than their male equivalents.
24 Seats Open
To combat these injustices. Wom
en's Liberation has formed a com
mittee to investigate the employ
ment practices of local universi
ties, and is establishing a day
care center for parents who wish 
to go to school of pursue academic 
careers.
More profound and debilitating 
than the economic inequities, how
ever, are the often unconscious 
psychological effects of female 
upbringing and education. Recog
nizing the importance of this cul
tural factor, Women's Liberation 
has been holding consciousnessraising sessions during which 
women are encouraged, often for 
the first time, to think and speak 
about the social and political im
plications of their sexual identity.
In the past two years over 200 
such groups, unrelated but loose
ly referred to as the Womens Lib
eration movement, have grown up 
across the country and at least 
three have been publishing their 
own journals.
Ceilidh 
Folk Music
?
8:30 P.M. - FRIDAY 
Wherrett Room
by Chuck Daly
During Homecoming Weekend 
I had the somewhat dubious pleas
ure of viewing this institutions 
latest film effort, Fund for Dis
tinction  an attraction missed 
by most students due to an unin
tentional (? ) lack of publicity. The 
film was produced with the alum
ni in mind, but since the film 
deals with a university, which I 
always was led to believe involv
ed students, I was somewhat sur
prised to find that the dominant 
theme in the movie entailed mon
ey, buildings, etc. Definitely not a 
student flick.
In an excellent element of cast
ing, the directors chose H. Guyford Stever to play the role of the 
college president  an area in 
which Dr. Stever has much experi
ence. His camera image left 
something to be desired, however. 
Perhaps he should consult with a 
dear friend and a man of much ex
perience in such matters, Tricky 
Dick (you remember him from 
his television days), for advise be
fore attempting future acting en
deavors.
The artistic merit of the film is 
also questionable. Raw statistics 
and good acting do not a movie 
make. Perhaps the lack of art in 
this film can be explained by the 
fact that it was meant as a docu
mentary. But even so. we must 
still consider the emotional effect
For Nov. Polls
The candidates for the Nov. 4 
and Selections:
Mens Dorm (three seats 
open): Vincent J. Misitano, Jr., 
Peter C. Fusaro, Stephen Jurman, 
Wesley R. Johnson, H. Michael 
Tenney, Eric G. Stern, Samuel 
Hall, Henry Collins. Philip Rosen.
Graduate Students (eight seats 
open): T. D. G. Burgess, II, Steve 
Rosenberg, David Bandler.
Independent Male Commuters
(six seats open): Bill Iacono, 
Marcel Weiner, Gordon Siebert, 
Joseph J. Seltzer, Bryan Tucker. 
Myron Starochak. Stephen Dick.
AWS (four seats open): Sheila 
Reiser, Leslie Bram. Laurel Polanick, Tricia Colt, Janet Hilligass, 
Joyce A. Love, Stephanie Sunthe, 
Julie Johnson, Cyndy Wilson, Una 
Hutton, Joyce Baker, Carol Rae 
Kraus, Joan Sloven.
Fraternity (three seats open): 
Andrew F. Onda, Stephen Joach
im, Bart Farris, Charles Silver
man. James Valimont, George 
List, Kim R. Crossman. Robert 
M. Suvak, Richard E. Farmer.
Elections will *be held No. 4 
and 5 (Tuesday and Wednesday) 
from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. both 
days. Alpha Phi Omega will have 
election booths in Baker Hall and 
on the cut in front of the bulletin 
boards.
ESCAPE WHILE THERE IS STILL TIMI 3000***
FINE FOOD . . . QUICK SERVICE
4620 FORBES AVENUE
1/4 lb. CHARBROILED HAMBURGER FOOT-LONGS 
FRESH ATLANTIC FLOUNDER POLISH HAM
DELICIOUS ROAST BEEF
SERVED FROM 10:30 A.M. JO 2:00 A.M.
FOR PROMPT TAKE-OUT SERVICE ? ? ? CALL 683-4418
the back door
PoetryFeum Coffrr HouFr
OPEN EVERY FRIDAY - 9 - 1 
NO ADMISSION
RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE
4905 Fifth Avenue 
(BACKDOOR)
FEATURING THIS WEEK:
Folk Singer Bob Holmes 
Experimental Films
Nov. 7 W. C. FIELDS FILM FESTIVAL
of the presentation. One particu
larly distrubing scene was the one 
in which Stever marched at a reg
ulated pace toward the cameria. 
With the camera in quick retreat, 
the scene showed merits as a 
great chase or perhaps a hunt
ing segment, but failed in the area 
of sincere appeal. I am sure the 
audience shared my thoughts of 
retreating through the door at this 
point.
But the movie had its high 
points. One that comes to memo
ry is a shot of Stever sauntering 
up the hall of Baker-Porter with 
his friendly smile and wave of 
hand. This showed the true rap
port between administration and 
students. Although the students 
walked on with looks of indiffer
ence, this was reassuring to those 
alumni who worry about student 
upheavals. At least he wasnt 
mobbed.
An all-school Chess Tourna
ment will be held November 
1st at 10:30 a.m. It is a fiveround Tournament, and the 
entry fee is $1. You should 
sign up at Skibo 103 or the 
Information Desk. There will 
be a $15 first prize with a 
trophy, a $10 second prize, 
and other prizes to be determined by the size of the entry.
But such scenes were few and 
the total effect of the film nega
tive. An outstretched and a smil
ing face would have been more 
effective in obtaining financial 
support. To my knowledge the 
film's future is uncertain and no 
future viewings have been pro
posed for students.
Original Handmade 
Earrings & Necklaces
$1.50 and Up
Call: JONI, 231-3911
VENCEREMOS BRIGADE
m
Join with Cuban Youth to 
help make the 1969 Sugar 
Harvest a success.
Two2 month trips ... 
November and January
Call 231-3911 
for More Information
8:00 p.m. -12 p.m. 
except Monday
\\&%%
709 Belief onte Street 
Shadysidc
At FMC
the only thing 
we promise you 
is a great 
chance
Whatever your interest-research, design, engineering, production, 
marketing  youll find wide open opportunity at FMC Chemicals. Our 
growth, both in technological advancement and sales volume, has been 
outstanding. We're one of the four diversified groups that comprise 
FMC Corporations world-wide operations-sales exceed $1 billion.
We need people for sales with B.S. degrees in chemistry and chemical 
engineering; for process, maintenance, design, industrial, and mining 
engineering with B.S. degrees in chemical, electrical, industrial, 
mechanical and mining engineering; and for research and develop
ment with B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. degrees in chemistry and chemical engi
neering. Our locations span the nation.
EditChemicals
I An Equal Opportunity Employer
INTERVIEWS ON CAMPUS 
NOVEMBER 7. 1969
Take a Chance Talk with FMC
for detailed information, write to Mr. G. A. Mayer 
FMC Chemicals, 633 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017
WANTED
SELF-STARTING ENTREPENEUR
Campus-oriented marketing company seeking Campus 
Manager. The right man will organize and direct on-campus field force in advertising, promotion and research 
projects. Fixed fee plus commissions and a chance to grow 
with a dynamic young company.
Write for application today:
REGIONAL MANAGER 
175 Jefferson Road 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society
19691970 SEASOl 
^ All Concerts at 8:30 p.m.
 /jI 0 in Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
^ Q November 3 .......Aeolian Chamber Players
y ft November 24....................... Parrenin Quartet
V i y January 12........................... Beaux Arts Trio
Vfr J February 16................................Juilliard Quartet
March 16..............................Hungarian Quartet
April 6.............................................Lenox Quartet
STUDENT SEASON TICKETS - $3.00
Room 100 Fine Arts Building
Special Sale at the Box Office from 7:30 p.m- November 3rd
... I. D. Cards Must Be Shown

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANFriday, October 31, 1969
South Side Steel Workers Aid 
In Manchester Bridge Crusade
The crusade to save the Man
chester Bridge and make Point 
State Park a place for the people 
has secured the support of the 
South Side Steel Workers. Presi
dent Jim Hunarmark has written 
a letter to the Stadium Authority 
and directed a copy of same to the 
mayor. The Steel Workers join an 
increasing list of supporters in
cluding the Carnegie Institute
Council and one of the City Councilmen. Support from the Pitts
burgh Art Institute may be made 
official later this week. KQV's 
Jim Quinn has been plugging the 
movement for some time, and 
KDKA will have a camera at the 
rally slated for 1 p.m. Sunday in 
the Park.
A man went looking for America. 
And couldnt find it anywhere...
or- nC tCior-h ef (''sNe(:esf Te:l 
wrhgawv owCnptvSC-c yDb'bf:'Secu niden
COLOR **
wbmb('bR O, tCupigSr oStvpwac
CANNES FILM FESTIVAL 
Best Film By a New Director
Kings Court
FORBES AVE., OAKLAND 682-2334
FOR LESS!
 Profit by CHASES  
Buying Power
Over 1000 New 9*12's 
$15, $20, $29, $39, $49
. . also . .
Sx9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 12xlSs ,etc. 
No better selection anvwhere
dpw-Svpwa
FOR LESS !
Save 40% at Chases 
associated wholesale show
rooms close by our rug outlet.
CHASES
5432 WALNUT ST., Shadyside
Open every day 10 a.m.-9 p.m. 
(Saturday till B p.m.)
 PHONE 021-1029 
Curfews To Be Abolished 
For Women in More wood
During the month of September, requests have been submitted to 
the Division of Student Affairs for revision of the parietal regulations 
affecting undergraduate residence halls. After review of these requests.
I have approved the following changes:
1) On the recommendation of AWS and effective immediately, 
freshman women may have four 2:30 privileges per month.
2) Effective second semester, curfews in Morewood Gardens dor
mitory will be abolished. Simultaneously, restrictions on overnights  
will be abolished. Thereafter. Morewood Gardens dormitory will be 
locked at 12:30 a.m.. Monday morning through Friday morning and at 
1:30 a.m.. Saturday morning and Sunday morning. All students entering
the dormitory after that hour-will be required to present identification 
in order to be admitted.
3) Effective Nov. 1, or as soon thereafter as I have been able to in
form parents, parietal privileges will be available in all campus housing 
between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 midnight, Sunday through Thurs
day; Fridays from 10 a.m. to 1 a.m., Saturday, and Saturdays from 10 
a.m. to 1 a.m.. Sunday. In each case, parietal hours will be subject to 
limitations placed upon those hours by the governing units of each in
dividual dormitory.
The delay in effectiveness of section three of this change is neces
sary because it represents an extension beyond the normal presump
tion of parents on the basis of University publications that restrictions 
on visiting hours are in effect.
The University reserves the right at any time to change parietal 
regulations.
Earle R. Swank 
Dean of Student Affairs m
2
I Du Pont Company, Room 7890, Wilmington, DE 19898 
Please send me the booklets checked below.
? Chemical Engineers at Du Pont
? Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont 
I ? Engineers at Du Pont
? Accounting, Data Systems, Marketing, Production
Name-------------------------------------------------------------------------
University--------------------------------------------------------------
Degree--------------------------------Graduation Date--------------
Address...................................................................................
City---------------------------State---------------------------Zip-----
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)I__________________________________________
Venture: Purify water with the fiber that mademen whistle.
Nylon. Reverse osmosis.
A fiber that started making girls' legs more beauti
ful some 30 years ago.
And a process that's been around a lot longer.
But when Du Pont scientists and engineers look 
at them in a new way, they combine into an idea that 
can change the world.
Reverse osmosis is a purification process that 
requires no phase change. Its potentially the cheap
est way to desalinate water.
Du Ponts innovation? Hollow, semipermeable ny
lon fibers much finer than human hair. Symmetrical, 
with an outer diameter of .002 inch and a wall thick
ness of .0005 inch, with an accuracy of manufacture 
maintained at close to 100%. Twenty-five to 30 million 
of them encased in a precisely engineered unit 14 
inches in diameter by 7 feet long.
The result: a semipermeable surface area of about
85,000 square feetthe size of a 2-acre lotand up 
to 10,000 gallons of desalted water per day.
So far "Permasep permeators have been used 
experimentally to purify brackish and polluted water, 
and in various industrial separations. But the po
tential to desalt seawater, too, is there.
So Du Pont scientists and engineers are even now 
working toward improved fibers, units and plant 
designs that should make it possible to get fresh 
water from salt at a price that any town or nation 
can afford.
Innovationapplying the known to discover the 
unknown, inventing new materials and putting them 
to work, using research and engineering to create 
the ideas and products of the futurethis is the 
venture Du Pont people are now engaged in.
For a variety of career opportunities, and a chance 
to advance through many fields, talk to your Du Pont 
Recruiter. Or send us the coupon.

---------------------------------------------------

Workers Stage Boycott 
Chavez To Lead Rally
In 1965 the itenerant farm 
workers in the California area 
voted to go on strike against their 
bosses for decent housing, safety 
conditions and wages. One third 
of the housing units had pits for 
toilet facilities, one fourth lack
ed even kitchen sinks with running 
water, and only one fifth were con
sidered "adequate" by the Gover
nor's Advisory Commission on 
Housing. The workers have been 
exposed to pesticides and unbear
able weather conditions.
The average migrant worker 
lives to be 49 while the average 
American lives to be 70. His an 
nual income is $2,024 which is 
below the $3,333 poverty line and 
well below the $8,000 to $10,000 
adequate" family income.
The large farms are owned by 
such concerns as Standard Or and 
Bank of America. Related indus
tries provide 33 per ce t of the 
jobs in California and approxi
mately four billion dollars a year 
in gross income.
It is clear that the land owners 
are not giving the Mexicans a de
cent living for their hard labor. 
They justify their positions by say
ing that these people are  dumb 
Mexicans" and that they will not 
be pushed around by them.
On Friday. Oct. 31, at 7 a.m., 
those supporting the grape boy
cott in sympathy with the farm 
workers will demonstrate at the 
Produce Yards, 21st and Smallman Sts., to protest against those 
who buy scab grapes.
Cesar Chevez, national leader 
of the United Farm Workers, will 
be there. Chevez is in Pittsburgh 
this weekend holding press con
ferences and leading the demon
strations. On Thursday morning 
he met with labor leaders at an 
Ecumenical breakfast sponsored 
by the Catholic Diocese of Pitts
burgh. He held a press confer
ence later in Webster Hall, made a 
radio broadcast over WJAS and 
was present at a fund-raising 
cocktail party Thursday night.
Today after the demonstration 
at the Produce Yards, Chevez will 
hold a, Pennsylvania news confer
ence for KDKA-TV and go on to 
speak at the University of Pitts
burgh Student Union Ballroom.
On Saturday, a city-wide rally 
will be held at 8 p.m. at the YM 
and WHA in Oakland on Bellefield 
Ave. Chevez will again be the 
principal speaker.
FILM ARTS MARATHON
Sunday, November 2
11:00 A.M. TO 12:00 MIDNIGHT
SKIBO ROOM
... FEATURING ...
 A MAN AND A WOMAN
 ALICE IN WONDERLAND
 THAT MAN FROM RIO
 KNIFE IN THE WATER
 BOCCACIO 70
NON-MEMBERS$2.00
 WORLD OF APU
 SHE DONE HIM WRONG
 ROAD RUNNER CARTOONS
 PINK PANTHER
 W.C. FIELDS SHORT
? MEMBERS - FREE
DEMONSTRATE FOR PEACE N0W
GO TO WASHINGTON 
FOR NOVEMBER 15 
MORATORIUM
Women's IM Increases
If you want to help plan the 
Midway for Spring Carnival 
1970, come to Room 56, Skibo on Monday, November 3, 
at 4:30 p.m.
This fall womens' intramurals 
was reorganized at C-MU. Over 
the last six years it had been sus
pended due to the lack of interest 
and participation. The programs 
then, had been chancelled into in
terscholastic competition only.
This year, under the supervi
sion of Miss Jane Fisk, the new 
head of the Womens' Physical Ed
ucation Department, the intra
mural system has been revived. 
Volleyball, the first attempted in
tramural sport this year, ended 
on Monday and was very success
ful. Eight teams entered, six be
ing sorority teams, one an inde
pendent. and one a faculty-grad
ON STAGE! 
IN PERSON!NIXON
One Week Only Beg. Mon., Nov. 3-8 
ft REAL TRIUMPH-UF*
Vol.6 9,N&y. DRAMA CRITICS AWARD
PRODUCING MANAGERS COMPANY
S:b-teye:1 
(-R96emRb-':ebw.wbnb(R2
i, TOM STOPPARD
withJOHN CHURCH CLEBERT FORD
andROBERT BURR 
STUDENT PRICE
WITH THIS COUPON
$2.50
GOOD ALL PERFORMANCES
NOV. 3 thru NOV. 7 
and Sat. Mat. NOV. 8
team. Hopefully the interest dem
onstrated during the past few
weeks will continue on into the re
maining intramural sports of bas
ketball. archery and badminton.
At the end of volleyball the 
womens intramural standings 
were as follows:
Team Wins Losses
Kappa Alpha*Theta A 7 0
Kappa Alpha Theta B 5 2
Faculty-Grad 4 3
Chi Omega B 4 3
Tri Delt 4 3
Apartment Apaches 3 4
Chi Omega A 3 4
Alpha Epsilon Phi 0 7
Student Senate 
Passes Motion 
On Discipline
(Editor's Note: The following mo
tion was passed (20-0-1) in the Stu
dent Senate meeting of Oct. 28.)
Whereas any participating in 
a disciplinary process by persons 
not subject themselves to that 
same disciplinary process vio
lates the principles of democratic 
justice:
"We the Student Government of 
C-MU reassert our conviction that 
a University Code of Discipline 
equally applicable to students, 
faculty and administration is the 
only equitable form of campus dis
cipline.
Further, we state our belief 
that, if faculty and administrators 
are not willing to co-operate in 
such a system, any and all disci
plinary action against students 
can only be initiated and conduct
ed by the students themselves."
Friday, October 31, 1969THE TARTANPage 7
MARCH ON 
WASHINGTON 
MEETING
To plan details for going to 
D.C. and other activities at 
C-MU before the 15th.
Monday, November 3 
4:30 p.m.
ROOM 45 - SKIBO
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos & Pipes in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 Forbes St. 681-6045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
FOR SALE
Black and White 27-inch T.V. 
and Radio-Phonograph Con
sole. Call 241-8858.
m
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
We Rent and Repair Typewriters y | w,
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
3711 FORBES AVENUEPhone: 683-2181
LOVE IS MORE THAN A FOUR LETTER WORD
KQV FM STEREO 102%

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANFriday, October 31, 1969
I
Parkvale pops up in Oakland
Parkvale is bringing serious saving to Oakland. Our new office, in 105 Atwood Street, Pittsburgh 
the Medical Arts Building, will be open November 3. Come in and 503 Greenfield Avenue, Pittsburgh 
get acquainted. We pay a 5% dividend compounded semi-annually 420 Grant Avenue, Millvale 
on all passbook savings. On your Christmas Club savings, too! 4205 William Penn Highway, Monroeville 
While youre visiting, register for a chance in our grand opening 102 Malts Lane, Irwin 
sweepstakes. First prize: a color television set. 931 Fifth Avenue, New Kensington
Iarkvalesavings' 'ASSOCIATION
