^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54  NUMBER 14 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1962
Sue Gullion (in scuba outfit) jokes with Judy Lomakin at Tech pool. 
* * * * * * 
Senior Judy Lomakin Featured 
In YWCA Film on T.V. Feb. 14
Judy Lomakin, a senior Home 
Economics Major, will be featur
ed in a TV film February 14 on 
channel 11. The film, Whoever 
She Is, will describe the program 
of the Pittsburgh YWCA.
Judy, who is president of the 
Tech YWCA, will tell about her 
expeiiences and about the activi
ties sponsored jointly on campus
Skibo Offers 
New Displays
The Carnegie Technical and 
Patterns are providing the first in 
a series of displays being arrang
ed by Mr. King, Activities As
sistant to Dr. Strick, and the Stu
dent Union Committee of Student 
Congress for the lounge in Skibo. 
This area is to be known as Ski
bo Gallery and covers 160 feet 
of floor space. It contains 10 
panels 44-44 inches, and two, 22x 
44 inches.
The Technical, now celebrating 
its twenty-fifth anniversary, has 
on display a series of its covers 
and articles from past years. This 
exhibit will run through February 
8.
The Patterns display features 
art on its theme, From the Hill.
Scheduled to appear next is a 
photo display from the Public 
Relations department. On Febru
ary 12, I.B.M. will exhibit pictures 
and models depicting the history 
of calculators. This will be fol
lowed by a display of Chinese 
paintings in conjunction with the 
Campus Chest campaign. An ex
hibit of past Film Arts posters 
and a series on the production of 
a play are also scheduled for 
next semester. Next year, a dis
play entitled The Image of 
Physics from the Smithsonian 
Institute and a display, The 
Twentieth Century House, from 
the Museum of Modern Art are 
scheduled.
by the YMCA and the YWCA. 
The film will include campus 
views, scenes in the new chapel 
during a Chaplains for Dinner 
program, and the popular Scuba 
Diving Class of which Sue Gul
lion, pictured above with Judy, is 
a member.
The film will be shown from 
9:40 to 10:00 a.m. on the Kay 
Calls program. There will also 
be a live showing of the film at 
the Downtown Center of the 
YWCA Wednesday, February 14 
at 7:00 p.m. at 203 Wood Street, 
and a showing Sunday, February 
18th, on another TV channel, to be 
announced later.
Paiihei Council 
Will Sponsor 
French Student
The Panhellenic Council has 
announced that it will sponsor a 
French student at Carnegie Tech 
for the oming school year. The 
students room and board will be 
paid for by contributions from the 
seven sororities on campus, while 
the school will pay the students 
tuition.
The project developed as a re
sult of Delta Gamma sororitys 
success in sponsoring Nicole Blan
chard, a French student, here this 
year. Panhellenic Council feels 
that this type of project is beneficiol to both the student and the 
school.
The student Panhel will spon
sor was suggested by Miss Meyers, 
a professor in the Home Econom
ics Department.
Overdue Books
All books checked out of the 
Hunt Library during the first 
semester must be returned by 
January 22nd. After that date, 
fines will be levied.
Alan M. Scaife Hall 
To Open In September
The new Alan M. Scaife Hall of Engineering is sched
uled to be opened for use at the beginning of the 1962-63 
school year; at present the bulding is about one-half com
pleted.
Cameron Choir 
To Sing Jan. 19
The Cameron Choir will present 
its annual Winter Concert, Friday, 
January 19, at 8:15 p.m., in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
The Choir will be under the di
rection of Mr. Richard L. Camp 
and will be accompanied by Mrs. 
Lee Oehrle. Fifty-seven students 
from all departments at Carnegie 
Tech will participate in the pro
gram.
Selections will include Praise 
to the Lord, a German chorale, 
and Magnificant, by Hendrik 
Andriesen with Neal Huguley, a 
sophomore in the department of 
music, and Ken Tuma, a junior in 
music, as soloists. Other numbers 
include Aupres de Ma Blonde, a 
French folk song, selections from 
Brigadoon, and That Old Black 
Magic, featuring Mrs. Oehrle and 
Miss Marilyn Taft. This concert 
is free to the public.
WQED to Film 
Hunt Library
Channel 13, WQED, is present
ing a filmed program on Car
negie Techs Hunt Botanical Li
brary Sunday, January 21. The 
show will be from 4:15 to 5:15 
p.m.
Some of the more important 
volumes in the rare book collec
tion will be discussed by Mrs. Roy
A. Hunt. Dr. George H. M. Lawr
ence, director of the Hunt Botan
ical Library, and Mr. Roy A. Hunt 
will discuss the library and its 
overall program. Mrs. Hunt will 
also talk about her own activities 
in developing the collection of 
books that now comprises this 
outstanding botanical library.
The renowned Budapest String 
Quartet will play at Carnegie 
Music Hall, Monday, February 5, 
at 8:30 p.m. in the second offer
ing of the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music Society series.
Tickets for the Budapest and 
the series are available in Room 
199, College of Fine Arts. Single 
tickets for students are $1.25. Sea
son tickets for three concerts are 
$2.00 for students, $7.50 for fac
ulty. Single tickets for faculty 
are $3.30 and $2.75. Following the 
Budapest Quartet will be The 
Eger Players, March 5. and the 
Juillard Quartet, April 2.
Scaife Hall, made possible by 
a $1,250,000 gift from the Sarah 
Mellon Scaife Foundation, is the 
fourth of five buildings completed 
under Carnegie Institute of Tech
nologys ten-year, $29,000,000 De
velopment Program.
The Alan M. Scaife Hall of En
gineering fronts on Frew Street 
at the southwest cornt of the
Campus Conferenc 
To Have Theme of 
Focus on Values
What is the value of values? 
Are values in a vacuum? Is edu
cation in a vacuum? Do college 
students have meaningful values? 
Are college students lacking some
thing? What is really important?
This years Campus Conference 
on Religion will discuss and seek 
answers to these and related 
questions. The title of the confer
ence is Focus on Values. It will 
include discussion groups for com
muters and in dormitories and 
fraternities. The conference will 
commence with an all-school as
sembly at 11:30 on Tuesday Feb
ruary 20. Watch the TARTAN 
bulletin boards, and the display in 
the Skibo lobby and listen to 
WRCT for further information.
For their Pittsburgh perform
ance the Budapest Quartet will 
play Mozarts String Quartet in B 
Flat Major (Hunt Quartet), Op. 
458; Smetanas String Quartet in 
E Minor, Op. 116, No. 1, and De
bussys String Quartet in G 
Minor, Op. 10.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music 
Society is sponsored by Carnegie 
Tech, Carnegie Institute of Fine 
Arts, and the University of Pitts
burgh. Among the board members 
of the Society are Dr. J. C. War
ner, Professor Nikolai Lopatnikoff, 
Leland Hazard, and Dean Norman 
Rice.
Tech campus, overlooking the 
Oakland area. The site was de
signed to form a major entrance 
to the rest of the campus.
Facilities
New classrooms, conference 
rooms, a lounge, offices for the 
Dean of the College of Engineer
ing and Science, and other depart
mental offices will be housed in 
the structure. In addition, Car
negie Techs Computation Center, 
now located in the basement of 
t the Graduate School of Industrial 
I Administration, will be moved in
to expanded quarters in the build
ing. Laboratory space will also 
be provided for the department 
of mechanical engineering
Also included in the new hall 
will be an auditorium with a seat
ing capacity of approximately 100. 
It will provide a place for the 
meetings of professional engineer
ing groups, seminars, talks by 
distinguished visitors, and other 
Carnegie Tech and community 
events.
Dr. J. C. Warner, President, 
commenting on the new building, 
said, The opportunities and fa
cilities for the training and edu
cation of young scientists and en
gineers provided by the Alan M. 
Scaife Hall of Engineering will 
enable Carnegie to keep pace with 
the enormous advances and 
changes taking place in engineer
ing and the sciences. Mr. Scaife 
long ago recognized the import
ance of highly trained engineers 
and scientists, and therefore it is 
most fitting that this new building 
bear his name.
Construction Firms
Altenhop and Brown, architects, 
planned the building. The Larson 
Construction Company, is conti actor. Other companies working 
on the completion of Scaife Hall 
are the American Bridge Com
pany, which is responsible for 
steel framework; the Steel City 
Piping Company, responsible for 
all plumbing and air-conditioning 
work; and the Frame Electrical 
Company, responsible for the wir
ing.
The other structures completed 
under Techs development Pro
gram are Skibo, the campus ac
tivities center, the Hunt Library, 
and the athletic field and grand
stands. All three structures have 
been opened for use within the 
past year and a half. Also, com(Continued on Page 2)
Pre-Pay Now 
For Next Term
Pre-payment for the com
ing semester is now being ac
cepted. By bringing your 
check or money order to the 
Registrars Office, A.H. 160 on 
or before January 30th, you 
can avoid waiting in the 
cashiers line during regis
tration.
All students except Gradu
ate and special students are 
eligible for participation in 
the pre-payment plan.
Budapest String Quartet  Violins: Alexander Schneider, Joseph 
Roisman; viol incello, Mischa Schneider; viola, Boris Kroyt.
Budapest String Quartet to Play 
At Carnegie Hall On February 5

---------------------------------------------------

weunesaay. January 17, 19t2  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
ram a Graduate 
Comes to Nixon 
In Irma La Douce
Alfred Spindelman, who receiv
ed a Masters degree in Fine Arts 
at Tech in 1953, is featured in 
the cast of a Broadway-originated 
stage musical coming to the Nixon 
Theater the week of January 29, 
in the show, Irma La Douce.
Spindelman portrays a bribe
taking police-inspector in an un
derworld quarter of Paris.
Spindelman first studied f~>r a 
theatrical career at Syracuse Uni
versity, and then came to Tech 
for graduate work under Mary 
Morris and Henry Boettcher. 
After obtaining his degree at 
Tech, Spindelman was a staff ac
tor at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
for a year, and then went to New 
York to appear in numerous TV 
shows. For two years he toured 
the country as the spluttering 
colonel in No Time for Ser
geants. The next two years he 
was in off-Broadways New York 
show The Three Penny Opera, 
which includes the song Mack 
the Knife. He then entered the 
New York cast of Irma La 
Douce.
George E. Moore 
Of Westinghouse 
To Speak Jan. 18
George E. Moore, manager of 
the Graduate Student Training at 
the Westinghouse Electric Corp
oration, will speak before the 
Pittsburgh Chapter, Pennsylvania 
Society of Professional Engineers 
at 8 p.m., January 18, at the U.S. 
Bureau of Mines Auditorium. Mr. 
Moore will speak on The Pro
fessional Development of the 
Young Engineer in keeping with 
the tradition of commemorating 
January as the Engineers-inTraining Month.
The. combined Engineering Stu
dent bodies of Carnegie Institute 
f Technology, University of 
Pittsburgh and Duquesne Univer
sity have been invited to attend 
along with those non-registered 
engineers who are seeking infor
mation on the professional devel
opment of engineers.
Mr. Moore was graduated from 
the University of Pittsburgh and 
also instructed there. He 
was subsequently promoted to As
sistant Professor. Now at Westingliouse, he has the responsibility 
for the training of the many 
graduates who join Westinghouse 
each year. He is also Secretary of 
the Committee on the Develop
ment of Young Engineers for the 
Engineers Council for Profession
al Development.
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Subtle Sounds for 
Swingin' People
JA 1-8384
WANTED
Students able to read 
French, Spanish, or 
Italian fluently and 
conversationally.
For audition write:
House of Four Languages, Inc., 
508Vi Fifth Ave., 
McKeesport, Pa.
I.J
You know, I was thinking the same thing myself!
European Placement Bureau 
Offers Summer Jobs In Europe
An American run organization 
located in Luxembourg, has jus! 
announced that it still has 1,500 
summer jobs left for U. S. college 
students who would like to spend 
the summer working in Europe.
Wages range from room and
boord only in Spain to $150 a 
month for the highest paid posi
tions in West Germany. For free 
information write directly to the 
American Student Information 
Service, 22 Avenue de la Liberte, 
Luxembourg.Seek adventure and join the Tech Explorers Club.
festonooo
o
ooo
Some say we go overboard, the lengths 
we go to in testing Ford-built cars at 
Hurricane Road"our wind-and* 
weather lab in Dearborn, Michigan, 
And for practical purposeswe do. 
You might call it "testing in depth."
Ford scientists and engineers have 
devised a gigantic test tunnel that 
creates monsoon rains and tornadic 
winds in a matter of minutes. Super 
sun lamps boost temperatures from 20 
below to 160 above zero. Fog and 
drizzle, snow and sleetall at the twist 
of dials. Huge cylinders beneath test-| 
car wheels imitate every kind of road: 
from flat, smooth turnpike to rutted 
mountain trail.
Out of it all comes knowledge of how to 
build better carscars that are built to 
last longer, require less care, and retain 
their value better. This constant aiming 
for perfection is just one more way in 
which research and engineering are 
earning for Ford Motor Company its 
place of leadership.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD  THE FARM 
* INDUSTRY* AND THE AGE OF SPACt

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 17, 1962
Editorial
All Students Need Economics
President Kennedy in his state of the 
union message last week proposed a five-year 
program which would make major changes 
in U. S. trade policy through a reduction of 
tariffs in our dealings with the Common Mar
ket. This growing importance of the Euro
pean Common Market illustrates that the 
trend in economic affairs today is toward a 
greater interdependence between nations.
A nation today can not afford to remain 
isolationist either economically or politically. 
It is necessary, therefore, that the citizens of 
a nation such as the U. S. must develop their 
awareness of the economic world around 
them. It is not enough for President Ken
nedy alone to recognize the need for such 
legislation, but if this is to be accepted the 
members of Congress, influenced by their 
constituents, must also recognize a need and 
enact the necessary laws.
A knowledge of economics is also im
portant to each individual citizen for an
other essential reason, for just as the rela
tions between nations becomes more com
plex, so do the relations between individuals. 
As more and more people buy goods on 
credit, apply for and receive loans, enter the 
stock exchange, participate in strikes, and 
buy insurance, a wider general understand
ing of basic economics becomes necessary.
Therefore, to enable a citizen to understand 
the life of his nation as well as his personal 
relations, a knowledge of economics is in
valuable.
Dean Bach of GSIA in a report reviewed 
in the Wall Street Journal points out the 
growing need for a wider knowledge of the 
essentials of economics by his suggestion 
that all high school students be required to 
take an economics course. The Christian 
Science Monitor commented on this subject 
that No citizen can afford to flunk his eco
nomics this year . . . Economics used to rate 
as the despair and frustration of students. 
Not so any longer. This is a required course. 
And not a dull one.
Looking at Carnegie Tech we find that 
this required course is required of all stu
dents except those in Fine Arts. Fine Arts 
students, however, are required to take 
courses in psychology, literature and history. 
But why not economics when this area is 
becoming so vitally important for life in our 
society? The ivory tower artist should not 
exist in our world for, as Kandinsky con
ceived of the artists role, the artist must 
have something to communicate. And if an 
artist today is to communicate anything 
about our society, he, as anyone else, must 
receive the essentials for understanding it!
Readers Write
Writers Talk Of Piper s, Sociability
Social Student 
Menaces Others
Editor, The Tartan:
My name is of no importance. 
But the monster that lurks in 
the dormitories throughout 
Techs campus is of greatest im
portanceit must be sought out 
and destroyed. The monster al
luded to is that social aspect of 
the student which takes posses
sion of him (or her) at times 
when the studious facet should 
predominate. And as a result 
many students are scholastically 
in peril.
When I say destroy that does 
not mean one should cease to 
function as a social being; it does 
mean that a stud2nt should know 
when there is a time for study 
and a period for play. Concen
tration on both almost simul
taneously will invariably lead to 
a very proficient accomplishment 
of neither. During the school 
week, for example, the ultimate 
thought of the student should be 
study  particularly within the 
dormitories.
Many of us find it difficult to 
sit in one place for a period 
without running next door and 
having a bull session. How
ever this is very unfair to the 
person who you barge in on. He 
probably has enough work to do 
without someone constantly dis
rupting him with matters of no 
scholastic significance. But the 
unfortunate aspect of most bull 
sessions is that when someone 
enters his neighbors room the 
poor victim cannot bring it 
upon himself to ttll the in
truder that he is quite busy and 
has not the time for idle gossip. 
Really, the only permissible in
trusion should be to obtain help 
on a problem or discuss some 
phase of ones studies. It is quite 
perplexing to observe students 
studying in the lounge or near 
sandwich machines merely to 
escape from their rooms. And it 
is very annoying to carry an 
armload of books to the library 
because ones roommate is hav
ing a bull session in the room.
Most people come to college in 
order to further their education.
And their education comes (or 
should come) largely from schol
arly activities. Therefore, stu
dents should have regard for 
their colleagues by not occupy
ing valuable scholastic time 
with matters of little or no im
port. In addition, students will 
immensely help each other by re
straining their sociability which 
acts like a monster during 
times of study.
Writers name withheld.
Carnegie Ceilidh 
Defends Pipers
Editor, The Tartan:
In Defense of the Kiltie Pipe 
Band
This is an open letter in re
gard to the letter of Phil Hoff 
concerning the Kiltie Band Con
cert of December 13, 1961. The 
letter discribed the concert as 
being a truly inspiring event 
marred only by the infernal bag
pipes. Mr. Hoff uses the terms 
raucous discord and sacriligious in describing the music of 
the pipes. He further suggests, 
Perhaps the real test of bagpipe 
popularity would be to hold an 
all-bagpipe concert. Ill bet at
tendance would hit come all time 
low for a camus event.
I believe Mr. Hoff is greatly 
mistaken about the popularity of 
bagpipe music on the Tech cam
pus. Carnegie Ceilidh would be 
honored to sponsor the Kiltie 
Band in an all-bagpipe program. 
Such a concert would end all 
controversy.
Signed, Howard Glasser 
Faculty Advisor, 
Carnegie Ceilidh
Editor's Note
The TARTAN can not print 
letters which are received un
signed. Names may be with-held 
at the request of the writer, but 
the editor must know the author. 
Unsigned letters are held in the 
TARTAN office and can be 
printed if the writer acknowl
edges his letter. We hope this 
will prevent future letters which 
we are unable to use.
I
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by Joey
The French As Americans in Italy
Dont let the title fool you. Its not just a neatly turned 
phrase. The cast is exactly what I have stated in the delight
fully suspense-filled French film entitled PURPLE NOON 
which is being housed in Pittsburgh at the Shadyside 
Theatre.
The story concerns itself not with who-done it? but 
will he get away with it? (This seems to be the new trend 
in Hollywood thrillers also. For example: PSYCHO and 
HOMICIDAL). Phillip Greenleaf is loafing his way around 
Italy, floating from one palazzo to another, with time in be
tween on a plush yacht. A friend of his, Tom Ripley, has been 
sent by Phillips father to force the playboy to return to 
the States. Ripley turns out to be the classic parasite with 
eyes not only for Greenleafs money and girl but also his 
life. Rich American is disposed of and an ingenious plan is 
laid by nouveau riche parasite to avoid suspicion and convic
tion. He is cornered, however, by a typical gauche Ameri
can tourist and said tourist must be bumped off. After that, 
well, I wont be the one to give away a horrifyingly ironic 
close.
Alain Delon is a remarkably beautiful man with a fine 
talent. His Tom Ripley is a perfect blend of innocence, craft
iness and narcissim. He is splendid. So is Maurice Ronet as 
Greenleaf. The handsome cad and sadistic lover is thorough
ly arresting. Doe-eyed Marie Laforet unfortunately does not 
have much to do as Marge, Phillips girl friend, but her 
scenes on the fatal yacht are superb. '0
The screen play by Rene Clement and Paul Gegauff is 
based on an American noved THE TALENTED MR. RIP
LEY by Patricia Highsmith. I am told that the book is even 
more engrossing than the film, if this is possible. It also has 
an entirely different climax!
Director Rene Clement has brought just the right 
amounts of satire and chills to make you smile and grit your 
teeth at the same time. Nino Rota composed the musical 
score which follows the satirical script perfectly: slapping 
us in the face with incidents which need no pointing up at *' 
all. The color by Technicolor is something to behold; every 
shot a painting with colors too vivid to describe.
If one complaint must be registered it is that the English 
translation (dubbing) is quite poor. It seems surprising that 
dubbing should be used in Pittsburgh when even Squirrel 
Hill matrons and Maggie Murph debutants are learning to 
read sub-titles.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Its not the exams I object to  its the atmosphere!
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager, 
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13. j
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ............................................Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ..............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager.........................................Harvey Berlin
Advertising Manager............................................Phil Chau
News Editor ...............................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ................................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor ........................................Steve Rothenberg 4}
Copy Editor...................................................Carol Hosken
Layout Editor ..................................................Frit* Klinke
Secretarial Editor..................................... Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor ..........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor.....................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor.....................................Colin Jones
News Staff: Mike Nelson, Sandy Klein, Doris Bell, B. J. Zimmewicz, Mark Appelbaum, Mary Ferguson, Jay F.llen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan, Joyce Holy, Kris Kelman, 
Marty Moore, Margie Park, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky
Features Staff: Margie Park, Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler, Sondra Perellis, Marlene 
Witman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether, Marion Mulligan, Mary^ 
Dunning, Karen Smith. Irene Grandberg. Cathy O'Dea. 9
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser, Phil Chau, Charles HoFook, Larry 
Gaffin, Bill Froelich, Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock, Jane Klein, Miron Straff. 
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kahl, Ginny Uliss.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breitenstein, B. J. Zimmewicz, Miriam Gillespie, Pat Boggs
Copy Staff: Margie Park. Pat Michael, Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Georgia 
White, Judy Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Barry Shane.
Circnlation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kail, Ginny Uliss
Layout Staff: Richard Straus, Dale Chcdorow, Allan Pollack

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 17, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
Dr. Fliess of Louisiana State 
peaks To PiKA About Berlin
Dr. P. J. Fliess, Professor of 
Government at Louisiana State 
University, was the guest speaker 
last Thursday evening at the 
Pi Kappa Alpha house. His talk 
was concerned with the present 
I day Berlin situation. After giving 
a general summary of the class of 
USSR abuses by the West Ger^mans, he began to delve into the 
situation between the United 
States and Russia over the very 
controversial city of Berlin. Dr. 
Fliess feels that a judicial deci
sion over the Berlin crisis would 
be of some value, for, as many 
members of the Bar Association 
feel, this is a legal problem that 
could be settled in legal terms. 
He said that although this deci
sion would be of some value, it 
would not be of ultimate import[ ance, for a solid stand to which
both sides would adhere is what
is essentially needed.
Neither the United States nor 
Russia is presently able to pull 
out of Berlin, not so much be
cause of its military or monetary 
value; rather, because of the loss 
of prestige that would be involved 
if either one of the countries be
gan to decline in the cold war. 
H The United States withdrawal
from Berlin would make her
weaker in the eyes of the other 
countries of the world, especially 
the Communist powers. Dr. Fliess 
went on to say that the goal of 
each side in the Cold War struggle is to gain the respect of the 
world, and that perhaps the 
United States could gain this re
spect by taking a first step and 
extending a temporary recogni
tion of East Berlin.
He also feels tnat an important 
step towards the end of the cold 
war would be the disarmament of 
both countries upon mutual agree
ment.
Dr. Fleiss, visiting lecturer 
at Tech was here recently 
in connection with the Maurice 
Falk Lecture Series. During his 
stay here he spoke on Thu
cydides and the Politics of Bi
polarity. Dr. Fliess, a graduate of 
Stanford University, holds ad
vance degrees from Harvard in 
Government and political sci
ence. His lecture tours and pro
fessorships have taken him to 
such places as the University of 
Frankfurt and the University of 
Puerto Rico. He is currently en
gaged in the preparation of a book 
entitled Thucydides: A Study in 
the Bipolarization of Power. Dr. 
Fliess has also engaged in re
search, supported by grants from 
the Ford Foundation, the Research 
Council of Louisiana State Uni
versity and the Fulbright Fellow
ship Program.
Moon Visitor  A full-scale model of the Sur
veyor spacecraft that will make a soft landing on 
the moon late this year is shown by Dr. Fred P. 
Adler, manager of the space systems division of
Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, California 
which is building seven of the vehicles for NASA* 
Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
LUCKY STRIKE 
presents:
CARNEG IS TUCOFGH and get some jaste for a change!
frodurt of <Jd& c Carnegig m our middle itama)A. f. Cm
sL For Quality 
1Y and HMKMVDoP
| See Our Display of 
^ Domestic and Imported 
^ Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave.
^ Oakland Pgh.,
IF TOBACCO COULD TALK (and who is certain it cant?) it would beg to be placed 
in Luckies. However, we would turn a deaf ear. Only tobacco that can prove its 
worth will ever get in a Lucky. This may seem heartless-but it pays! Today, 
college students smoke more Luckies than any other regular. Wed never be 
able to make that statement if we listened to every slick-talking tobacco leaf that 
tried to get into Luckies.
Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge, author of 
The Ancient Mariner, 
said: I once knew a 
man who had 
advanced to such a 
pitch of self-esteem 
that he never 
mentioned himself 
without taking off 
his hat.
Maybe thats carrying 
it a little too far, but 
if you want to 
command respect, it's 
up to you to start it.
Perhaps we can 
help with clothing in 
superb taste.
We have done a lot 
with our Vested Suits 
at $65
IAG CSRCA ASUHG
Traditional Clothing 
for Men 
58*3 Forbes Ave., Squirrel Hill
Op Tsfidnjr 4 Thr<Uy 
venlnga Until

---------------------------------------------------

Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric
Tliere s no place at Western Electric for engi
neers who feel that college diplomas signify 
the end of their education. How ever, if a man 
can meet our quality standards and feels that 
he is really just beginning to learn ... and if he 
is ready to launch his career where learning is 
an important part of the job and w here gradu
ate-level training on and oft' the job is encour
aged  we want and need him.
At Western Electric, in addition to the nor
mal learning-while-doing, engineers are en
couraged to move ahead in their fields by sever
al types of educational programs. Western 
maintains its own full-time graduate engineer
ing training program, seven formal manage
ment courses, and a tuition refund plan for 
out-of-hours college study.
This learning atmosphere is just one reason 
why a career at Western Electric is so stimu
lating. Of equal importance, however, is the 
nature of the work we do. Our new engineers 
are taking part in projects tliat implement the 
whole art of modern telephony, from high
speed sound transmission and solar cells to 
electronic telephone offices and computer-con
trolled production techniques.
Should you join us now, you will be coming
to Western Electric at one of the best times in 
the companys history. In the management 
area alone, several thousand supervisory jobs 
are expected to open up to W.E. people within 
the next 10 years. And our work of building 
communications equipment and systems be
comes increasingly challenging and important 
as the communications needs of our nation and 
the world continue to increase.
Challenging opportunities exist now ot Western 
Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemi
cal engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, 
and business majors. All qualified applicants will re
ceive careful consideration for employment without 
regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For moro 
information about Western Electric, write College Rela
tions, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 
roadway. New York 38, Now York. And be sure to 
arrange for a Western Electric interview when owr 
college representatives visit your campus.
MANU**CTVt.NO N9 Wffl l J 0NT O* Hl Ifli iW
Principi manufacturing locations at Chicago. IM.; Kearny, 1. J.-, Baltimore, Indianapolis, Ind.; AUetrtown and Laureldate. Pa.| 
wmston Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, NeS.; Kansas City. Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Engineering Research Center. Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie. III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distri
bution centers m 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
LEWIS
RAOIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
Sales - Repairs 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
They flung their beanies into the air and danced a gavotte and 
lit thirty or forty Marlboros and ran out to pursue the pleasure 
which had so long, so bitterly, been missing from their lives.
Alas, they found- instead a series of grisly misfortunes. 
Walter, alas, went searching for love and was soon going steady 
with a coed named Invicta Breadstuff, a handsome lass, but, 
alas, hopelessly addicted to bowling. Eaeh night she bowled 
five hundred lines, some nights a thousand. Poor Walters 
thumb was a shambles and his purse was empty, but Invicta 
just kept on bowling and in the end^alas, she left Walter for a 
pin-setter, which was a terrible thing to do to Walter, especially 
in this case, because the pin-setter was automatic.
Walter, of course, was far too distraught to study his English 
lit, but he took some comfort from the fact that his roommates 
were studying and they would help him before the exams. Rut 
Walter, alas, was wrong. His roommates, Casimir and Lclioy, 
were nature lovers and they used their free time to go for long 
tramps in the woods and one night, alas, they were treed by 
two t>ears, Casimir by a brown bear and LeRoy by a kodiak, 
and they were kept in the trees until spring set in and the 
bears went to Yellowstone for tl>e tourist season.
So when the three roommates met before exams to pool their 
knowledge, they found they had none to pool! Well sir, they had 
a good long laugh about that and then rushed to the kitchen 
and stuck their heads in the oven. It was, however, an electric 
oven and the effects were, on the whole, beneficial. The wax in 
their ears got melted and they acquired a healthy tan and 
today they are married to a lovely young heiress named Gang
lia Bran and live in the Canal Zone, where there are many nice 
boats to wave at.  106~ JudyuLuyy
* * *
In case you worry about such thing*, their wife is a Marlboro 
smoker, too, which adds to the general merriment. Marllxtr 
is ubiquitous, a well as flavorfid, and you can buy them in 
all 50 states as well as the Canal Zone.
A VE WAJTeP m YEARS fOR SM0NE V ASK ME THAT QUS5TIDU*
Student Congress Does a Lot
In Last Meeting of Semester
^CAARN EG IG TEVOLby Dick Bibter
The last Student Congress meet
ing of the semester was held Jan
uary 10, 1962. By vote of Congress, 
Intramural Night was changed 
from March 16th to March 23rd 
and declared an All-School Event. 
The Military Ball, which will be 
held on April 14th, was also de
clared an All-School Event. By 
having these as All-School Events, 
no other organization will be per
mitted to sign up these dates. To 
avoid any future conflicts, as oc
curred between I.M. Night and 
Greek Sing, organizations are 
osked to sign up their events as 
soon as possible.
Congress expressed disapproval 
with a recommendation from the 
Calendar and Schedule Commit
tee for replacing Easter vacation 
with a separate spring vacation at 
mid-terms beginning 1963-64. 
Congress felt the recommended 
vacation would be too short for 
students living outside of Pennsyl
vania to be able to go home for 
the break. The problem was given 
to a committee for -study so that 
congress could present its own 
suggestions to the administration.
The Officials Club, established 
to provide competent officials for 
all intramural sports, The Asso
ciation for Computing Machinery, 
set up to promote interest in the
Computing Field, and the Carnegie 
Ceilidh, a folk music society were 
all recognized by Congress and 
put on a one year prooationary pe
riod.
The next regular meeting wall 
be held February 14, 1962 at 4:30 
p.m. in the Wherrett Lounge, 
Skibo.
)A.Cmswith
M&ShuIman
r of Rally Round The Flag, Boys\ The 
Many Love of Dobie GiUis, etc.)
IS STUDYING NECESSARY?
Once there were three roommates and their names were Walter 
Pellucid, Casimir Fing, and LeRoy Holocaust and they were all 
taking English lit. and they were all happy, friendly, outgoing 
types and they all smoked Marlboro Cigarettes as you would 
expect from such a gregarious trio, for Marlboro is the verjy es
sence of sociability, the very spirit of amity, and very soul of 
concord, with its tobacco so mild and flavorful, its pack so 
king-size and flip-top, its filter so pure and white, and you will 
find when you smoke Marlboros that the world is filled with the 
song of birds and no mans hand is raised against you.
Each night after dinner Walter and Casimir and LeRoy went 
to their room and studied English lit. For three hours they sat 
in sombre silence and pored over their books and then, squinty 
and spent, they toppled onto their pallets and sobbed them
selves to sleep.
This joyless situation obtained all through the first semester. 
Then one night they were all simultaneously struck by a mar
velous idea. We are all studying the same thing, they cried. 
Why, then, should each of us study for three hours? Why not 
each study for one hour? It is true we will only learn one-third 
as much that way, but it does not matter because there are 
three of us and next June before the exams, we can get together 
and pool our knowledge! . * ,
Oh, what rapture then fell on Walter and Casimir and I.eRoy I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday January 17, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa* 7
inheritance?
? more education ? European tour? stocks
0 Should the faculty 
have the power to 
censor campus 
newspapers?
? during bulf sessions
? while studying
? during a date
? anytime theres stress & strain
L&M's the filter cigarette for people Who really tike to smoke
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS Or HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
126 Bonqret St. (Nwr Cornet Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timf4
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
CM 033V901 SlAW V 1139911
SUS0.1U
* I LT 1RS
M6m t MVtdt TOBACCO C
HERES HOW 1029 
STUDENTS AT 100 
COLLEGES VOTED!
omaki n,s4S $ ssajjs
%0I..................ajep ^
%ZZ..... 3uiXpn;sw
%81....suojsses ||nq
oaaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeerH E
%Zl................... sa***
%6 .......JBO sjjods
%W..............s)|oois ^%!"' Jno* ueadcurr  %9" uo|jeonpa ajoui
U.S. International companies have broadened their horizons as they search today for knowledgeable 
young college graduates to send abroad to manage their foreign business operations. Once they sought men trained in business. Today (although it may come as a pleasant shock to those who may have felt hesitant about breaking into the world of international commerce), the companies are hiring liberal arts graduates (with varied majors), scientists, engineers, agriculturists, pharmacists, and others as well as graduates in business administration, accounting, economics, and marketing for careers abroad.The appraising eyes of the recruiting representatives of most U.S. international firms and government agencies see a -man as employable if he has the proper attitude for an overseas career, a general aptitude, and, most important, an additional year of practical training in foreign trade techniques, in a spoken foreign language, and in the social, cultural, and business aspects of the worlds marketing areas.One of the worlds pre-eminent authorities in the culture, economics, and politics of Latin America, Dr. William L. Schurz, director of the area studies department of the far- famed American Institute for Foreign Trade in Phoenix, Arizona (and author of the current, best-selling Brazil, The Infinite Country), observes that *the practice of foreign trade is no longer a simple business transaction to be conducted on a main street overseas with the good old American hard sell .Nor is it a high-level operation to be master-minded here at home by theoreticians, says Dr. Schurz, a former Commerce Department economist, but an art to be practiced by professionals preoriented and specifically trained in the U.S. before being thrust into a career with private enterprise abroad.That means postgraduate saturation in the culture, psychology, economics, politics, and social customs of the global marketing areas in which U.S. companies are interested. The art of foreign trade also demands practical training in the modus operandi of international commerce and a working knowledge Of a foreign language.Recently, leafing through the alumni file of the 16-year-old American Institute for Foreign Trade, Dr. Schurz, the "dean of Latin Americanists (who has probably trained more young men for careers abroad than any other living American) singled out a group of typical AIFT graduates who have already attained executive status (president, vice president, director, general manager, sales manager) with some U.S. international firm.
From these cards, he selected several examples of the AIFT success story: one graduate, now vice president for all operations of a prominent U.S. soft drink company in the Middle East (with his office in Beirut), started out by working for that company in the Philippines, Australia, and Latin America; another, now general manager of one of the worlds best-known tire and rubber companys operations in Italy, emigrated some years ago from Italy, was college-educated in the U.S. and postgraduate-trained at The American Institute for Foreign Trade, and began his career at the foot of the ladder; still another graduate, now 
general manager for Western Europe of a large American drug firm with extensive foreign outlets (with headquarters in Lisbon), got his start by serving a long, fascinating apprenticeship in the back country of Brazil, where he sold medicines and drugs to village apothecaries out of a jeep; another, who is president of the International Trust Co. of Li
beria (in Monrovia); one, a recent graduate who, in three years, has risen to the sales managership of a big U.S. steel company subsidiary in Brazil (with offices in Sao Paulo); another Thunderbird (as they are widely known), now managing director of operations in Indonesia for a familiar U.S. firm (with executive offices in Djakarta), who (like many another AIFT alumnus, has spoken pridefully of the school) persuaded a young Indonesian to enroll at the Institute this fall and has just arranged with the State Department to send two influential Indonesian trade executives to visit AIFT.Dr. Schurz went on casually turning up cards showing: an alumnus who, after a few significant foreign assignments, has become assistant vice president for overseas personnel of one of the biggest U.S. international banks; another, who is president of all Peruvian operations of a huge U.SV department store chain; two alumni who are overseas general managers of two U.S. insurance companies (one in Santiago, Chile; the other in Bangkok. Thailand); a graduate who heads a U.S. international bank branch in Tokyo; another, who is Latin American general manager for a large U.S. cosmetics company.There are many more of equal and lesser stature who are actively combatting the Communist economic offensive abroad by setting an example with their AIFT - acquired know - how of the functioning of U.S. private enterprise abroad.Senator Barry Goldwater, member of the Institutes board of di1 rectors, in a recent speech on the Senate floor applauded the major role played by the more than 3,000 graduates of this young school in the meteoric rise of U.S. foreign trade. Describing these alumni as Americas best - trained and most highly - respected body of goodwill ambassadors, he called The American Institute private industry* training ground for its thousands of junior and senior executives in 78 foreign nations.
Graduates in most branches of liberal arts, business administration, science, and engineering are sought annually at AIFT by more than 500 U.S. international businesses and ] banks. The Institutes sole placement problem appears to be its inability to fill the pressing demand for engineers, accountants, chemists, and other technically - trained college graduates with AIFFs specialized training for overseas operations.
Cited by U.S. and foreign industrialists, educators, and government officials as our most effective institution for training college graduates for international commerce, AIFT offers a 3-part curriculum emphasizing three general world areas: modern foreign trade practices, spoken languages (Spanish, Portuguese, French), and living cultures of the peoples in Latin and Central America, the Far and Middle East, and W'estern Europe.
About 300 carefully screened men are graduated yearly. The postgraduate program lasts two semesters, a new class starting both in January and in September.
Industry and government officials have been widely quoted as saying that there is no institution of comparable prestige for training in international commerce. Senator Goldwater predicts that most Americans who become business leaders in trade centers around the world in the next few years will have been trained specifically at The American Institute for Foreign Trade." (For more information, write Regis* trar, Thunderbird Campus, Tha 
American Institute for Foreign Trade, P.O. Box 191, Phoenix, Arizona; telephone 938-0000.)
=3
Dr. Coleman Shows MM Girls 
Planning Difficulties of India
The plans upon which they de
cide must reflect the hope of the 
people and their demand for 
progress, yet the plans must not 
be so lofty that failure will defeat 
their purpose.
Dr. Coleman himself saw the 
problems with which India is fac
ed while he was there working 
for the Ford Foundation. He serv
ed as a consultant in projects in 
labor economics and helped to de
velop plans for institutions.
He says that the best help that 
foreign nations can give is in
creased technical assistance so 
that the Indians can do things for 
themselves, since they are a na
tion committed to freedom. They 
are competing to keep face next 
door to Red China, a Communist 
nation quickly and successfully 
built.
Tucker to Disci
Charles L. Tucker will discuss 
The Technique of Being Inter
viewed, Wednesday, January 17, 
at 4:30 p.m. in Porter Hall. Dean 
Teare, of the College of Engineer
ing and Science, and Mr. Ryan, 
head of Techs placement service, 
strongly recommend that all E&S 
seniors and interested juniors at
tend.
Mr. Tucker is head of the Soap 
Equipment Department of Proctor 
and Gamble, and, by virtue of his 
position, interviews a great num
ber of college students yearly. 
Since he is thoroughly versed in 
interviewing procedures, his 
speech should prove both inter
esting and beneficial to everyone 
who attends.
Mr. Tucker graduated from Co
lumbia College and Columbia
iss Interviewing
School of Engineering. He receiv
ed a B.A. degree in 1949 and a
B.S. in Mechanical Engineering 
in 1950. He is currently respon
sible for the design of all equip
ment and processes associated 
with non-edible product lines, ex
cept paper products, at Proctor 
and Gamble.
Mr. Tuckers speech is very 
timely since the interviewing sea
son is just around the corner. All 
seniors are urged to attend.
U. S. FIRMS OFFER CAREERS ABROAD - 
ADVENTURE, HARD WORK, GOOD SALARIES
Last Wednesday, Dr. Coleman, 
the head of the economics depart
ment, temporarily placed approx
imately one hundred and fifty 
^ Margaret Morrison girls on the 
National Planning Commission of 
India. They were confronted with 
the economic concept scarcity, 
where it exists most cruelly. They 
were asked to decide whether the 
nations very limited capital 
should be utilized to feed a starv
ing but rising population, or 
whether the present population 
should be allowed to starve while 
communication and transportation 
facilities are constructed so that 
the country can support itself in 
the future. The real National 
Planning Commission must make 
these decisions after watching a 
dirty little boy catching some wa
ter in his hand and drinking it, 
and a group farther on fighting 
over the raiding rights on a pile 
of garbage. They must make these 
decisions knowing that other men
with college educations similar to 
their own cannot find jobs which 
will do justice to their educations 
because there is not as yet a place 
for them to utilize their skills. 
They must make their choices in 
a nation where thirteen different 
languages are spoken, where 
eighty percent of the population is 
illiterate, where rural and urban 
areas are equally in need, and 
where any partiality will be re
sented. In order to keep their of
fices, the planners must give 
equally to every part of the na
tion, for India is a social democ
racy.
Theres actually more 
rich-flavor leaf in L&M 
than even in some un
filtered cigarettes. You 
get more body in the 
blend, more flavor in 
the smoke, more taste 
through the filter. So 
get Lots More from 
filter smoking with 
L&M... the cigarette 
that smokes heartier 
as it draws freely 
through the purewhite, modern filter.

---------------------------------------------------

Created by R. J. Reynold Tobocto Company
Pas !  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 17, 1962
Cagers Bow to Powerful Dukes, Waynesburg
In the most futile week of a 
meager season, Carnegie Tech 
dropped two more contests, losing 
64-55 to Waynesburg and 73-36 
to Duquesne, ranked eighth in the 
nation.
Waynesburg, which ranks about 
as far from the bottom as does 
Duquesne from the top, could do 
no wrong against the Tartans. 
With a team that would be hard 
pressed in the Tech intramural 
circuit, the Yellowpackets sys
tematically eliminated the hopes 
of the Plaid fans by capitalizing 
on numerous lapses on the part 
of the home team.
From the standpoint of good 
basketball, th game was a pathe
tic exhibition of ragged ballhandling. sloppy passes, and erratic 
defense. As entertainment, it was 
like a Jerry Lewis comedy as both 
teams stumbled and fell over one 
another and themselves in their 
futile efforts to put away the 
victory.
Waynesburg racked up their 
first conference win in three long 
years. Bruce Brosius was the only 
Tartan player to present any sem
blance of poise as he rebounded 
consistently against the smaller 
visitors. But this was hardly 
enough.
Duquesne showed no mercy as 
they opened with a zone press and 
had the game well in hand by 
about the four minute mark in the 
first half. Tech was like a small 
boy flailing away at the knees of 
a towering giant as they consist
ently failed to get the ball past 
midcourt. The Dukes bullied their 
way to a 44-22 half time margin 
and coasted from there, limiting 
the Tartans io a mere 14 points 
in the last twenty minutes.
Tech had good success when 
they were finally able to get with
in shooting range, making good on 
an even fifty percent of their at
tempts in the first half. But the 
Dukes' tough press limited the 
Plaid to a mere 18 shots, and that 
wont win many games.
The Tartans are now 1-13 for 
the season. Tonight brings W&J 
to Skibo gym for a rematch of a 
close contest which Tech dropped 
earlier in the season.
IM Bowling
Last Saturday DTD, SN and 
BTP captured first places in the 
Splits, Strikes and Sparer Leagues 
respectively as the preliminary 
rounds of I.M. bowling drew to 
a close. SN and BTP walked into 
the finals, naving received byes 
for last Saturdays competition, 
while DTD rolled to an easy vic
tory over the last place Whales 
(2405 - 1942).
Joe Pellergrino of PKT bowled 
a new league high game of 246 
and high set of 628 as he led 
PKT to take two points from 
Obelisk (2488 - 2412). BSR tied 
SAE G for second place and 
then earned the right to play in 
the finals by winning the ensueing plalyoff game. The Grad 
Eagles eliminated DU from the 
playoffs by winning all four points 
(2322 - 2146).
TARTAN  STATISTICS 
SPLITS
TeaHLPinsAve.
DTD1429678807
Grad Eagles1339620802
DU888887741
ATO4128890741
Whales1158016668
SPARKS
BTP1429322777
Obelisk1159561797
PKT106.9100758
SAE  P~5118336695
TDP* 0165851650
STRIKES
SN9660805
BSR1159137761
SAE G"1159514793
KS3138304692
Vu leans2148473707
Tigh GamePellegrino (PK246
Htffh Set__Pellegrino(PKT628
High Avg.__SwGradEagles)184
High Team GsimeGirad E925
High Team A\,g.DTD807
Tartans Swamp Western Reserve 
For Initial Victory, 66-28
by Ken Kantrowitz
At Tech pool, Saturday, Jan
uary 13, the Tartan mermen won 
their first meet of the season by 
swamping the Western Reserve 
Redcats by the score of 66-28. 
Tech was never behind as it 
plunged into an opening 400 yard 
medley relay win. The team of 
Ira Rubin, Steve Strasen, Ken 
Kantrowitz, and Steve Portnoy 
typified Techs power in events 
to come by running away with 
the event.
Tom Vandersalm, Tech co-captain, and Tyler Burt swept the 
220 freestyle. In the 50 freestyle 
and 200 individual, Tech second 
places were captured by Ron Kowach and Tom McLaughlin. Joe 
Oldfield and Tom Snow swept 
the fancy diving followed by a 
200 yard butterfly shutout by 
Kantrowitz and McLaughlin.
The Tartans lost a little ground 
in the 100 freestyle and 200 back
stroke as Ron Kowach and Ira
Rubin respectively placed second. 
Tech then coasted to an easy vic
tory with Vandersalm and Hank 
May sweeping the 440 freestyle, 
co-captain Steve Strasen winning 
the 200 breaststroke, and the Tech 
400 freestyle relay of Burt, Port
noy, Vandersalm, and Kowacllfi 
with their seasons best perform
ance, outsprinting the Redcats.
Techs high point man was 
Vandersalm by placing first in the 
220 and 440 freestyle and by 
swimming in the victorious final 
relay. He was followed by Stras
en, Kowach and Kantrowitz. Out
standing performances by West
ern Reserve were turned in by 
Vogel and Tartara, each man win
ning two events. V
The Tartans close out the sem
ester when they entertain Grove 
City at Tech pool today at 4:00. 
The first home meet of the second 
semester will not be until Febru
ary 24th with Case after a serie* 
of road meets.
Photo by Skalka
Julian Borkowski soars but hopes fade as Tartans drop their twelfth
to Waynesburg, 64-55.
For Shoes See  . WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night 'till 9 P.M.
Salem refreshes your taste
'air-softens"every puff
2 CIS  With every Salem cigarette, a soft,
refreshing taste is yours. Salems special cigarette paper breathes in fresh air 
.. to smoke fresh and flavorful every time. Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem!
 menthol fresh  rich tobacco taste  modern filter too
: 
"JL-----I-----I----------------
