1he MR MN
i
Volume 67Number 3Wednesday, September 20, 1967General Hershey at Pitt, 
Favors Student Deferment
Three young men stood at a 
table in the middle of the crowd
ed Pitt Student Union last Fri
day noon, handing out Hersheys 
Kisses to people filing into the
S. U. Ballroom. General Lewis
B. Hershey, Director of the Se
lective Service System, was at 
Pitt to speak at the Midday 
Lecture Series, and the idea 
to shower him with Kisses as 
a gesture of good will.
The Kisses werent needed, 
though, as General Hershey 
brought his own goodwill. The 
General, a bouncy little man 
who wears civvies and talks 
like Casey Stengel, only faster, 
immediately ingratiated himself 
with his audience by stepping 
up to the rostrum and announc
ing that he has always been in 
favor of student deferments 
because you people are, after 
all, the leaders of tomorrow. 
But he was quick to add that 
The government is not inter
ested in you going to college; 
the government is interested in 
you going to college so that 
you can be of use to the govern
ment.
General Hershey disgressed on 
the governments policies and 
i his own personal views for 
about 20 minutes, then opened 
himself to an hour of questions 
from the floor.
In his prepared remarks, 
Hershey expressed serious 
concern over national defense. 
The survival of this coun
try, he said, cannot be taken 
for granted. He also strongly 
expressed the feeling that 
everyone owes his country 
something. Mentioning univer
sal military training, he said 
1 have been for it all my 
life, although I do not ever 
expect to see it enacted. 
Hershey illustrated his points 
with Abe Lincoln anecdotes and 
references to his own experi
ences on a farm, in college, and 
in the army: I have seen many 
students over the past months 
. . . and in general they are a 
good-looking bunch. Some, of 
course, do not look as good as 
the others ... I am a farmer, 
and I know that one bad apple 
in the barrel can spoil the whole 
bunch.
Many of the questions direct
ed at Hershey were personaltype queries about particular 
situationsWould I be defer
red if . . questions which 
could easily be answered by any 
local draft board. Hershey 
nswered them though, and 
ried to elucidate the governents reasoning behind certain 
eferments. Most of the quesions were about graduate school 
eferments, occupational defer
ents, and classification of concientious objectors.
Graduate Deferment
Graduate students pursuing 
Inasters degrees are now ten
ia tively deferred until next June, 
when a new government policy
* to be announced. Hershey 
"s he personally approves of 
?rring grad students, because 
ei is a surplus of manm'," and present draft calls
can be filled from other sources. 
However, he said he might 
change his mind should draft 
calls go up.
He also pointed out repeated
ly that decisions on deferment 
policies are not his to make. He 
estimated that grad students in
General Hershey
the more scientific fields have 
the best chance of being defer
red under next Junes new poli
cy.
About occupational defer
ments, Hershey said I do not 
expect to see the end of occupa
tional deferments. Were not go
ing to let people go through 
graduate school and then waste 
them.
Conscientious Objectors 
The current government poli
cy on conscientious objectors is 
to grant COs only to people 
who oppose war on grounds of 
religious training and belief. 
The government does not grant 
COs on personal moral grounds 
says Hershey, because too many 
people suddenly become con
scientious when a war arises. 
Hershey did not explicitly state 
his personal opinion of giving 
COs on personal moral grounds, 
but did bring up the issue in 
a veiled reference to this sum
mers racial violence: In the 
past couple months, we had 
some doves who rapidly become 
hawks when there was trouble 
on another flank.
Hershey does not approve at 
all of granting COs on the basis 
of political belief  You cant 
pick your wars. One student 
in the audience suggested that 
if this country is worth fighting 
for at all, its citizens will volun
tarily take up arms when they 
feel it is jeopardized Hersheys 
rebuttal was that In this tech
nological age you never know 
when youre jeopardized .... 
were living in a very dangerous 
age. No one asked Hershey his 
personal views on the Vietnam
ese war.
To the charge that compell
ing people to perform any 
kind of service is immoral 
and undemocratic per se, Her
shey replied, Im not sure 
that a totalitarian state is one 
in which people serve the 
state.
Shorty after this last remark, 
a professor asked Hershey what 
he would have done if he had 
been the Director of Selective 
Service in Nazi Germany. He 
answered that when one is a
New Dates Set For Project Completion
Carl E. Thomas, Director of 
the Physical Plant, clarified the 
status of certain highly-evident 
campus projects in an interview 
late last week. He explained that 
projects originally scheduled for 
completion during the summer 
had to be pushed back, due to 
craft union strikes which be-, 
gan in June and continued dur
ing most of the summer. Al
though these strikes caused con
siderable delay in construction, 
they did allow the school to or
der all the necessary materials 
so that construction was able 
to begin as soon as union set
tlements were made.
Work under the balcony at 
the Snack Bar in Skibo started 
last week, and should be com
pleted within 30 days. A par
tially enclosed TV room to the 
right of the outside entrance 
will have amphitheatre-like seat
ing. The other side will contain 
tables and chairs, and a campus 
bulletin board.
The Morewood Gardens rec
reation room is now in the pro
cess of being renovated. The 
purpose is, according to Mr. 
Thomas, to provide more us
able space in the recreation 
area. The completion date is set 
at September 25.
The bookstore, enlarged to oc
cupy the old Post Office area, 
is essentially completed.
Physical installation of the 
r.ew 1108 UNIVAC Computer 
was completed early this week. 
Due to the large size of several 
oi the units, they had to be 
lowered into place through a 
hole cut in the roof of the Com
putation Center.
Installation of a primate lab
oratory and a general renova
tion of the Psychology Depart
ment, including installation of 
air conditioning, are underway. 
Completion date is set for late 
in November.
A new walk, placed diagonally 
from Forbes to Skibo, was laid 
this summer. It still needs hand 
rails and shubbery.
Future plans include recarpet
ing the staff dining room, and 
sound-proofing the practice 
rooms in Fine Arts. The latter 
will be done over the Christ
mas recess.
citizen of a country, Either live 
up to what the countrys doing, 
or else get out of it.
Hershey thinks that getting 
out of the United States is an 
unwise course of action. He 
says he knows of hundreds of 
people who left the U. S. dur
ing the last two wars who 
would give anything they had 
except ten years of their life, 
in jailto get back in.
Dissent 'Thru Legal Channels 
There is no room for civil dis
obedience in Hersheys view of 
a systematically-run democratic 
society. He says he is in favor 
of dissent . . . its essential 
but only through accepted, le
gal channels, i.e. oral or written 
argument, and political action. 
When you lose an election, you 
dont go out and start a revo
lution . . . you wait for the next 
(Continued on Page 3)
President Stever Delivers State of CMU Message
At the first Student Assem
bly of the Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity, President Stever stress
ed in his State of the University 
Address that the goal of the 
new University is to preserve 
the best of the past, and make 
changes where needed. Stever 
pointd out that students, en
grossed in their personal paths 
within the University, may develope biased views with re
gards to the University and 
changes, and it is the job of 
the administration to modify 
these views by adding them to 
other specialized views. 
Resources to Enhance Growth
New resources will allow the 
University to grow in strength; 
the budget of the next year is 
20 percent higher than this 
years. This is primarily due to 
the cost of a first rate faculty.
According to Stever, the new 
resources will also be applied 
towards enlarging the size of 
the graduate school. It will not 
grow indefinitely, but will be 
a substantial fraction of the un
dergraduate school. The under
graduate school will remain rela
tively unchanged in terms of 
size.
College Of Humanities And 
Social Sciences
The new college of Human
ities and Social Sciences is still 
in the planning stages. The rela
tives roles of MMCC and the 
new H and SS have not been 
determined. The planning com
mittee does not want the new 
college to mimic a liberal arts 
college. It is hoped that the col
lege will have a strong impact 
from the Universitys profes
sional strength. The committee 
will make ideas complete and 
hopefully right before the new 
college is launched.
Engineering And Science
The College of Engineering 
and Science will feel the biggest 
impact of the merger, according 
to Stever. Six million of the 
twelve million dollars for the 
new Computer and Research 
Building has been obtained. If 
construction begins in the spring 
of 1968, it should be completed 
in the spring of 1970. First 
plans for the building were ini
tiated in 1962.
Fine Arts
There is now more competi
tion from other universities in 
the area of fine arts, as other 
universities adopt themes of ed
ucation long in use here. New 
facilities are needed. The Uni
versity is well along in plan
ning for these facilities, and 
finance plans have been started.
Student Affairs
In this area, Stever pointed 
out that Skibo is a fine addi
tion to the campus, but Deeds 
improving. There are also many 
things that cannot be improved 
into Skibo. Some plans, such as 
the completion of the Snack 
Bar, are in the process of being 
executed. Other plans may pend 
on finances and the cost oj 
changes.
Living Facilities
Stever stressed that deans, 
students, and faculty commit
tees are working on the prob
lems of living facilities. These 
committees recognize that many 
improvements are neded. Stever 
states that he feels the women 
students facilities are good, 
but not great. Mudge, however, 
he feels is great. It is now co
educational, with 19 women 
graduate students living there.
Comp Center Installs 
NewGraphicDisplays
The Carnegie Tech Computa
tion Center has recently install
ed and is experimenting with 
three graphic display terminals 
in the new wing of Porter HalL 
The display scopes are connect
ed directly to the G-21 Computer 
and provide a unique capability 
for two dimensional communi
cation with the machine. Car
negie Tech is now one of the 
few universities around the 
country that are exploring the 
implications of this highly ex
perimenting mode of man-ma
chine interaction. The hardware 
was designed by Jesse Quatse, 
Manager of Engineering at the 
Computation Center, and actual 
construction was performed by 
the Philco-Ford Corporation.
Even though the hardware it
self was delivered about a year 
ago, many months of program
ming were required before the 
equipment could be useful in 
applications, and systems pro
gramming is still underway. In 
this time, however, some thesis 
work has already been under
taken by students in the ComMan, machine Interaction with 
new Graphic Display Terminal.
puter Science, Mathematics, and 
Electrical Engineering Depart
ments. Typical applications in
volve a question-answering sys
tem about geometric figures 
(shown in the photo), pattemrecognition experiments, and 
text editing in the preparation 
of documents. In addition, work 
is underway to display mathe
matical formulas in a format 
similar to that found in text 
books.
Future applications are ex
pected not only in physics and 
engineering, but also in archi
tecture and fine arts. If you 
are interested in exploring the 
possibility of using the displays 
in connection with your own 
work (even though you may 
not be using the computer al
ready), please contact Dr. Alan 
Bond at the Computation Center.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, September 20, 1967
^Jhrouffli ^Jhe cjCoohinff (jla6A . . .
Privilege
... by TIMOTHY BAY
Privilege is a remarkable film to have been sponsored by Uni
versal; unlike the usual run of movies produced by this company, 
it is neither low-budgeted, box office slanted, or technically routine.
Furthermore, as predictable, it has been generally underesti
mated by many of the critics. Unlike the intellectually precious 
cinema of Antoinnonis Blow Upboth films deal with the same 
milieuPrivilege is not filled with fashionable, heavy handed sym
bolism, or bored people.
Executed with the present tense immediacy of a newsreel, 
Privilege presents us with the uncomfortable image of a bleak 
future, where pop singers have become the political instruments 
of a Big Brother type Fascist state. At this time, official reli
gion has deteriorated to the point where, as one character puts 
it: About the only people still going to church are the clergy. 
To gain the support of the mass of young people, the state, aligned 
with the Church, uses one of their pop idols, Steven Shorter, to 
sway the young toward a fruitful conformity. Frightened by 
the massive adulation of his fans and disgusted with the cold
blooded tactics of the state, Steven Shorter at the end, rejects his 
assigned role. At a banquet held in his honor, Shorter commits 
the unpardonable sin of asserting his individuality and is promptly 
carted off by the state into oblivion.
Reduced to a plot outline, the movie sounds obvious and naive. 
The film derives terrific impact, however, from its satirically edged 
insight in the managers, press agents, church officials, and syco
phants who surround Steven. The unreal world of Blow Up 
is extended and given frightening form in this film. The church, 
its hypocrisy and commercialism, is attacked sharply and justifi
ably; the announcement at the beginning: The Church officials 
who appear in the film you are about to see are of no specific 
denomination was obviously necessary. In one beautifully off
beat scene, the clergy is shown indulgently approving of a rock 
version of Onward Christian Soldiers; it is a scene which is 
almost surrealistic in its vulgarity. The rally scene, representing 
the coalition of church and state, where Shorter, becomes a vir
tual God in the eyes of his followers, is handled beautifully. The 
exhilirating power of well organized masses of people; the heated 
atmosphere of nationalistic fervor; the mock dignity and pom
pousness of this occasion is handled with a power, that makes this 
scene strongly remineseent of the Nazi rallys.
Shrewdly, Peter Wakins, the director, has taken most of his 
actors from people actually in the recording business. This is a 
difficult business working with nonprofessionals; however, Wak
ins has gotten some remarkably unself-conscious performances 
from his actors. Paul Jones, who is, off screen, an English record
ing tar, plays Steven Shorter in a quiet, understated, sensitive 
way. Jean Shrimpton, Steves girlfriend, to put it charitably, be
longs mort* at home on the fashion page than on a screen. Further
more, the idea of her as a sophisticated artist seems patiently 
absurd: she looks, in reality, as if she would have a hard time 
getting through an artists correspondence course. The only other 
faultas I saw it after two viewingsis the ending which is some
what glib; Stevens fall from grace seemed to be a little too abrupt. 
This film, probably the most audacious and imaginative that I 
can think of since Stanley Kubricks Dr. Strangelove is now playing 
at the Manor in Squirrel Hill. I forgot to mention that the film 
takes place in Englandbut dont let that mislead you.
CMU Invited To 
UYA Discussion
Urban Youth Action, a service, 
group of upperclassmen at the 
Hill Districts high school who 
are committed to community 
improvement and increased in
dividual opportunity, has invited 
Camegie-Mellon faculty and stu
dents to participate in informal 
discussion sessions and other ac
tivities to be planned in cooper
ation with CMUs YM & YWCA.
UYA is a privately-founded 
organization that is staffed by 
and run for teenagers in school. 
Their objective is to improve 
the physical and social condi
tions of their community. These 
youngsters in turn are benefited
by gaining in experience and 
skills while attending education
al training sessions and doing 
part-time work in businesses 
and professional establishments 
in the city.
The Y is seeking members of 
the faculty and student body 
who will share their general 
thoughts with UYA members in 
informal discussions on topics 
of the members choosing. Indi
viduals or pairs of Carnegie 
faculty and students will make a 
series of visits to the UYA 
headquarters in the Hill. There 
will also be activities provided 
for the UYA members on the 
CMU campus.
Students and faculty who 
wish to volunteer may do so at 
the Y office, 57 Skibo. A meet
ing of volunteers will be held 
towards the end of September.
Poetry Forum 
Given New Grant
The International Poetry 
Forum has received an addition
al grant from the A. W. Mellon 
Educational and Charitable 
Trust which has enabled it to 
commission artists from all over 
the world to design and execute 
original posters for each of the 
nine performers who will ap
pear in the 1967-68 season. Each 
poster will be in an edition of 
30 and will span the wide varie
ty of media  lithographs, serigraphs, woodcuts and etchings.
These posters will be placed 
throughout the city for the pub
lic to view and, after each per
formance, to buy.
Among the 30 places they 
will be shown are: the window 
of the Mellon Bank at the cor
ner of Fifth and Grant, the 
lobbies of Chatham Cinema, 
Denis-Encore, Guild, Kings 
Court, Manor, Shadyside and 
Squirrel Hill Theatres, the lob
bies of the Carlton House, Hillton and Webster Hall Hotels, 
as well as the lobbies of the 
Playhouse, WQED, YM&WHA, 
YWCA, the Jenkins Arcade, the 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, the 
Pittsburgh Press Club, the Koppers Building, Kaufmanns and 
each of the student unions of 
the eight colleges and univers
ities in the Pittsburgh area and 
the Carnegie Library both down
town and in Oakland.
Some of the artists participat
ing in this venture are Sidney 
Chafetz, Barbara Swan, Bert 
Waggott, Andrew Stasik, John 
Ross, Fritz Eichenberg and 
James Dine.
In each instance, the artist 
chosen was either nominated by 
the poet himself or was other* 
wise familiar with the Work of 
the poet concerned. Thus, each 
poster is as much as interpre
tive drawing as an announce
ment. In this way, two art forms 
are combined in a way that is 
mutually supporting and bene
ficial.
PATROL OVER
.................to the place
where the fashions are 
unabashedly different.
Paraphernalia
114 MEYRAN AVE. OAKLAND
Around the Comer from 
the Strand Theater 
Open Daily till 6 P.M. 
Thurs. & Fri. till 9 P.M.
film arts society
The remaining tickets will be sold at
the first two showings, Thursday Sept. 21 and 28.
PORTER HALL 100 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 p.m.
,__WINNER OF 6 ACADEMY AWARDS INCLUDINGBEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR.
COLUMBIA PICTURES Thre youurnguu m stdablA MAN FOR ALL SEASONS
 play by \\()\\E\\T BOLT - TECHNICOLOR-' MFrom the (
NIGHTLY AT 8:30 P.M.  RESERVED SEATS ONLY
8th SMASH MONTH
MUSIC HALL
Sat. Eve. 
SEPT. 23
BALLET 
SPECTACULAR
"MORE GREAT DANCING THAN MIGHT BE SEEN IN 
A WEEK OF BALLET
IN N.r.MMiami Herald 
"THE BEST STARS OF THE BA L L E T 
WORLD in the BEST 
BALLETS."Miami News
with MELISSA HAYDEN 
JACQUES dAMBOISE
N.Y. City Ballet Stars
LUPE SERRANO &
SCOTT DOUGLAS
Ballet Theatre Start
GRACE DOTY & ALAN HOWARD
_______ San Francisco Pacific Ballet Stars
and 3 other Ballet Star Soloistswith Symphony Orchestra 
in SWAN LAKENUTCRACKERDON QUIXOTEDyiNG SWAN 
and 5 other great Pas de Deux including 7 Pittsburgh Premieres.
,_WINERWOFA ECEAD _MFA FD YSLU
S. Hurok presentsYAN CLIBURN
in his first ALL-CHOPIN concert, featuring BOTH Sonatas, Etudes, Fantaisie-F | 
Minor, Nocturne, Scherzo and other se
lections from Van Clibum's best selling 
"My Favorite Chopin" album.
,NWGM BOTTRWPHA E."AD _KHA riRYSLU
Only Pitttsburgh Performance This Season 
All New Flamenco Program
it dmdik Carlos^Montoya
THE GREAT FLAMENCO GUITARIST
,NWGM BOTTD WOFA ECEAD _MFA nrD YSLU
Direct from Tokyo  The Event of the Aqn
ARTHUR FIEDLER
conducting the 125 member Yomiurl 
Nippon Symphony Orchestra of Japan
EACH PERFORMANCE
SPECIAL for all Faculty, Students and Staff.
2 $6.60 Tickets for Hie PRICE OF 1 
ORDER NOW by PHONE ONLY-922-2030 or 922-2031
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society
Announcing 
THE SEVENTH SEASON
All concerts are at 8:30 P.M. in Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland.
*October 16.........Beaux Arts Quartet *February 12......................1 Solicti Veneti
*November 16......Amadeus Quartet *March 11........Beaux Arts Trio of N. Y.
* January 22..............Julliard Quartet * April 1..............New York String Sextet
Student season tickets $3.00.
"NOW ON SALE IN FINE ARTS, ROOM 100

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 20, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 3
International Artists 
To Be Judged
The important decision of se
lecting winners from a field of 
325 international artists for ten 
awards, to be presented at the
& 1967 Pittsburgh International 
Exhibition of Contemporary 
Paintings and Sculpture, rests 
with a jury of three. Named 
today to serve on this jury are 
notables in the art fields abroad 
and in the United States. They 
are Norman Reid, Director of 
the Tate Gallery in London, Eng
land; Dr. Umbro Apollonio, sec# retary general of the Venice 
Biennale Art Exhibition, and 
Louise Nevelson of New York, 
whose sculptural innovations 
have gained recognition through
out the world.
The Jury will arrive at the 
, ** Museum of Art on October 10 
if for three days of deliberation. 
The collection of art was chosenN e* % by Gustave von Groschwitz over 
a period of a year in the United 
States and abroad. Mr. von 
Groschwitz is director of the 
Museum of Art of Carnegie In
stitute. The 1967 International 
will be held from October 27 
through January 7 in the Gal
leries of the Museum of Art in 
Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, 
%Pa.
Six award winners will receive 
$2,000 each, four for painting 
and two for sculpture. Other 
purchase awards will be an
nounced later.
Three jurists notable 
personnages
Norman Reid has been direc
tor of the Tate Gallery since 
^1964. He is vice-chairman of the
Institute for Conservation of 
Historic and Artistic Works; a 
member of the British Council 
of Fine Arts Committee; the 
Arts Panel; the International 
Committe on Museums of Mod
ern Art, and the Cultural Ad
visory Committee of the United 
Kingdom National Commission 
for UNESCO. Mr. Reid is a 
graduate in art from Edinburgh 
College, Edinburgh, Scotland.
A writer of art criticism, Dr. 
Apollonio is a graduate profes
sor of contemporary art, and is 
a member of the Academy of 
Fine Arts in Genoa. He is a 
member of the Council of Inter
national Film Arts in Florence, 
Italy; Honorary Inspector of 
the Conservation of Monuments 
and Art Objects of the Province 
of Venice, where he resides, and 
a jury member of international 
commisisons.
Miss Nevelson, who was born 
in Kiev, Russia, in 1900, develop
ed her talent for designing in 
wood at an early age in Rock
land, Maine, to where her par
ents had moved in 1905 because 
of the lumber mills. During her 
period of art education, she had 
been associated in the study of 
painting with Hans Hofmann, 
in Germany, with sculpture 
through archeological studies in 
Europe and Central America, 
and has been an assistant to 
Diego Rivera in Mexico City.
She introduced her sculptures 
for the first time in New York 
in 1940, and has exhibited ever 
since in numerous one-man 
shows and annual exhibitions. 
Recently the Whitney Museum 
of American Art had a large 
retrospective showing of her 
art. Miss Nevelson hp:, oeen rep
resented in the Pittsburgh InApocalypseEnding The Draft
by
James Coyne, Student
Our military forces currently 
require less than ten per cent 
of the male population in the 
18 to 34 age bracket, despite 
the heavy Vietnam troop com
mitment. Barring some tremen
dous increase in defense needs, 
less than one half, perhaps lit
tle more than one third of this 
segment of the population will
Hershey
(Continued, from Page 1) 
election and try again. 
Hersheys talk was relatively 
unmarred by incidents. The Viet
nam Summer Committee distri
buted literature at the Student 
Union doors, and a student cir
culated copies of a statement 
by 13 local men which said they 
 will refuse to be inducted into 
our governments armed forces 
if called upon to do so.
There was one anxious mo
ment during the talk, when over 
a hundred students in the rear 
of the audience got up and walk
ed out in the middle of the question-and-answer session. They 
were headed for one oclock clas
ses.
ternationals of 1958, 1961, and 
1964.
The 1967 Pittsburgh Interna
tional, the 44th International of 
Carngeie Institutes Museum of 
Art, was founded in 1896 by 
Andrew Carnegie. Represented 
in this years Exhibition will 
be the works of artists from 34 
Eastern and Western countries.
ever be in uniform. With such re
quirements some method of se
lective service is inevitable. 
That the present draft system 
is inequitable and wasteful, that 
its involuntary servitude is a 
contradiction of the principals 
of the free society it protects 
are points on which there is 
wide agreement. The argument 
for reform, for replacing the 
members of the armed forces 
reluctantly conscripted with vol
unteers who had chosen a mili
tary career, have brought to
gether such unlikely bedfellows 
as socialist Norman Thomas 
and conservative Barry Goldwater in demands that changes 
be made.
James Coyne
Photo by Laura Seidler
Aside from the tyranny of 
the status quo, the greatest ob
stacle to changing the present 
system has been a misunder
standing of the costs of the pre
sent system. Superficial appear
ances incorrectly seem to indi
cate that a volunteer army 
would be much more expensive 
than the present partially con
script army. Properly calculat
ed, however, the cost of a volun
teer army may even be less than 
that of the present system.
It is obvious that the incen
tive to enlist would have to bt
increased if the necessary vol
unteers are to be attracted. Elmploying the figures from the 
Defense Departments extensive 
study of military enlistments, 
some economists have estimated 
that four or five thousand dol
lars in cash and benefits per 
year would be sufficient start
ing pay to maintain present mil
itary strength. This would mean 
an increase in budget costs of 
$4 to $8 billion per year after 
allowing for savings in turn
over and men employed in train
ing.
Four to eight billion dollars 
in a federal budget of $175 bil
lion a year would be a small 
price to pay to eliminate the 
involuntary servitude of the 
draft. It is, however, a gross 
overestimate. As economist Mil
ton Friedman points out, in a 
free society such as ours the 
real cost of a draftee who would 
not otherwise serve on present 
terms is not just his pay and 
the cost of his keep; it is the 
amount for which he would be 
willing to serve. The draftee 
pays the difference. The case of 
a factory worker employed at 
$5,000 per year who is drafted 
illustrates the point. As a draf
tee he will be paid approximate
ly $3,000 a year. Effectively, he 
will be taxed $2,000 per year. 
The estimated budget increase 
of $4 to $8 million dollars cre
ated by relying entirely on vol
unteers to fill the ranks of the 
armed forces does not repre
sent a real increase in cost but 
rather a shift in the burden 
from the military man to the 
nation he defends.
Forced to pay the real cost 
of maintaining an army, the 
military would not tolerate the 
(Continued on Page 5)
V
%
eiiliibone. etc.
S^CLOTHIERSy
This is the name of a new University/Mens Shop. A Unique name. A masculine name. 
A very distinguished name, yet young in spirit. It has to be. It reflects the clothing we sell.
5842 Forbes Avenue, Squirrel Hill
421-5710
5406 Walnut Street, Shadyside 
683-8872

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, September 20, 1967
EDITORIAL
When the fire bell rings..."
A WS handbook, Page 16
them?
"On Wednesday, April 5, 1967, nine lives were lost in a dormi
tory fire at Cornell University.
Thus begins an article in the June, 1967, issue of College Man
agement, reviewed by all major administrators on this campus. 
The article goes on to list ten points which administrators should 
note and correct is they exist at the administrators university.
Partially following the article, let us examine the state of fire 
preparedness in living and study quarters on this campus.
Donner Hall has no sprinkler system, something which College 
Management strongly suggests. It does, however, have fire hoses 
and fire extinguishers, all of which are to be used by students. 
This is something that the National Fire Protection Association does 
not recommend, as a students first reaction is to pull the alarm 
and 'beat it"
Another problem which exists in Donner Hall is that it is pos
sible to lock yourself in your room. In case of a fire, unless you are 
handy with a bobby pin, you die. We know that the administration 
has ordered new locks and plans to put them in, but why has the 
building been left in this condition for as long as it has? Why have 
the locks not already been installed? Must we too have a fire?
As for the old mens dorms, one needs only to say that they con
tain between 60 and 90 men, all of whom must, in most cases, exit 
through one door, down one staircase. In addition, the boiler room 
(the most likely thing to blow up) in McGill Hall is below the door
way and stairwell. Should that boiler blow, the men will, in some 
cases, have to jump 40 feet onto land or concrete.
It would be interesting at this point to consider the methods 
existing in the dorms for discovering fires in light of some statis
tics prepared by College Management.
DISCOVERY OF FIRES
DiscoveryFireAverage LossNo. Killed
Automatic Sprinklers ..., . 1$ 1,0000
Detection Equipment ...831,0001
Night-Watchmen............4116,0001
All Others......................., ...147103,00020
Totals ...............................160$251,00022
To quote, The conclusion drawn is obvious: Deathand property damage are a direct function of casual fire detection. When 
mechanical fire detectors are employed, risks drops drastically. At 
Carnegie-Mellon University, there are no mechanical means of de
tection. The Security Police patrol at night and do as well as can 
be expected. But that phase as well as can be expected, no matter 
how good, can result in death for several students.
The Womens DormsAn Example
Following this line of thought let us look at Morewood GarTARTAN
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-in-Chief
Executive Editor..............................................................................................JOHN MERA
Managing Editor......................................................................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manager..........................................................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor...........................................................................SUZANNE LINDAMOOD
Assistant Desk Editor .....................................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor................................................Rich Steffens
Sports Editor............................................................... ...Jim Janke
Photography Editor......................................Mark Kaminsky
Local Advertising Manager..................Caroll Swarmer
National Advertising Manager .........Fredda Simon
Layout Editors...............................................................Ellen Blissman
Carol Shuman
Secretarial Editor ...............................................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager........................Henrik Lind
Circulation Manager..................................... ....Dan Nagin
dens with respect to fire prevention and detection. The best means 
of examination is by example, so let us examine the fire in the in
cinerator of E Tower the week of Sept. 11, 1967.
The information link throughout the fire was the house phone 
system, a faulty thing to depend on, as wires burn. But it was the 
information that came up through the phones which was question
able. The girls were told to open their windows and close their
doors so the smoke would not get into their rooms. This, as most
people know, will encourage the direction of smoke through drafts. 
To add to that possible catastrophe, the girls were told to open 
the hall windows, which only aggravated the situation.
All the while that was going on, the fire alarm was not sound
ing. The girls were not evacuated, but were, rather, kept in their 
rooms by their floor counselors, who had been instructed by the 
nebulous system of authority, the house phone.
To add to the confusion, the girls were not informed when
the fire had been put out.
We are sure there was a girl somewhere in E Tower read
ing her AWS handbook where it says on page 16, in part, When 
the fire bell rings, turn on room lights, close windows, put up 
shades, put on a coat and hard-soled shoes, take a towel, open 
doors, leave by the doors marked Exit, and go immediately to the 
place designated by the Fire Marshal. No elevators are to be used 
during the fire drill. We presume that the girls were given exact
ly opposite instructions because the fire bell never rang.
Now, let us look at the general situation of Morewood Gar
dens with respect to fire prevention or extinguishment, as well 
as procedure. After much investigation, we were hard put to 
find a fire extinguisher that was up to date. (Out of curiosity, we 
checked the one outside our office and found it dated December, 
J.966.) Fire extinguishers should be checked and charged twice 
pearly for proper effectiveness in case of fire. Additionally, who 
has been trained to use the fire extinguishers that exist? They are 
heavy for use by a girl. Next, we wonder why the dormitories do 
not have external fire escapes. They were once used as apart
ments, and had to, at that time, pass some fire requirements for 
the city. Since the function of the building has been changed from 
a family dwelling to a dormitory, an external fire escape would 
be desirable to say the least. That question gains in importance 
when one realizes that the staircases can rapidly fill with smoke 
and there is no alternate exit system. Even rope ladders, as Col
lege Management states, provide some relief, but not much. Ima
gine 50 girls attempting to climb down seven stories on a rope 
ladder.
As to the alarm system, there are several flaws. First, how 
do the fire marshals know where a fire is located?
Next, how are the fire marshals to protect themselves while 
they are directing fleeing students? They have no training, equip
ment, and if logit-, do not have back-up personnel. The alarm sys
tem has not been tested within the last year, so nobody knows if 
it will really work should we need it.
Inadequate Alarms
The same goes for all of the alarms on campus. And, while 
considering alarms, we feel that it is definitely detrimental to the 
fire prevention effort on campus for us not to have a central, in
tegrated fire alarm system with 
all boxes reporting to the Safe
ty and Security Office. At pre
sent, they must be called on the 
telephone for a fire to be report
ed. After that, Security turns in 
the alarm to the city. The Tar
tan is aware that Chief Young 
has desired such a system for a 
long time. We urge the decision 
maker who is responsible for 
expediting the installation of 
such a system to do so imme
diately.
As for reporting the fire to the 
city, there is one important point 
which has not been considered 
by the administration. Few of 
the residents of the dorm know 
where the fire boxes for the city 
fire department are located. In 
cases when the security officer 
does not arrive on the scene in 
quick order, we must leave to 
chance the discovery of an alarm 
box. (A Tartan poll of a group of students, male and female, chos
en randomly and numbering almost 120 showed that only slightly 
more than five per cent knew where the fire alarm box nearest 
them was located.)
I Guess . . . the Guys . . . Would Die."
The fraternity system is equally poor with respect to fire de
tection, prevention, and escape. One fraternity man, when asked 
what would happen if there were a fire in the corridors of his dupplex said, Well, I guess all of the guys on the sleeping porch on 
the third floor would die.
Keep in mind that the fraternities also lack an integrated sys
tem. A fire in one half of a duplex is not reported in the other 
half, except by the sight of the refugees of the flames and smoke.
In the case of the fraternities, as well as Donner Hall and 
Hammersohlag Hall, we hope that the administration follows the 
warning in College Management, which points out that, in the 
case of the Cornell fire, someone had put undue faith in the socalled fire-resistant construction of the building ... it had been 
remodeled in 1966 ... as in the case of most fires in similar struc
tures, it is the contents that burn and cause the smoke, and it is 
the smoke not the flames that snuffs out lives.
Leaving Scobell Hall the only 
way possible by committee.
Some Suggestions
We have shown the deficien
cies of the system of detecting, 
preventing, and extinguishing 
fires on this campus. We feel 
that it is our duty to suggest \ 
some solutions to the problems.
First, we feel that the admin
istration should proceed, at once, 
to change the locks on the doors 
in Donner Hall. (We realize that 
t.ne builders strike prohibited ac
tion this summer). Second, the 
integrated fire alarm system 
proposed by Chief Young should 
be installed at the earliest op
portunity. Until then, if possi- 1 
ble, the Security Force should 
be expanded to maintain fire pa
trols through the night
Morewood Gardens should be 
inspected by the city, with all 
fire extinguishers charged fresh
ly, and plans of escape issued to 
the fire marshals. The fire mar
shals themselves should receive 
training in evacuation direction, ^ 
should be given a means of com
munication which could be used 
during a fire to direct evacuees 
away from the blaze.
The fire drill system should 
be intensified to include the E 
tower apartment. In case of fire, 
those in the apartments could 
be the cause of many deaths il 
they do not know their role.
Fire ladders or rope ladders < 
should be provided for the first 
few floors of Morewood Gar
dens, in order to alleviate the 
pressure of people using the 
staircases.
The fraternities and mens 
dorms should have all of the 
fire extinguishers and hoses 
checked and recharged, and there 
should be fire marshals for the . 
various sections of these build
ings, as there are for Morewood 
Gardens.
In the long run, the adminis
tration should look into install
ing sprinkler systems in More
wood Gardens and all of the 
mens residencies. As well, they 
should see if it would be feasi
ble to install external fire es
capes. The number of boys climb- < 
ing up would be well worth the 
number of girls who woula oe saved by going down the escapes 
if necessary.
This is not presented as a 
complete answer to a very com
plex problem. We suggest that 
Student Senate appoint a spe
cial investigating committee to 
look further into the inadequa- * 
cies of the system and possible 
solutions. As well, the adminis
tration should show that it un
derstands the gravity of the sit
uation by providing the commit
tee with whatever information 
it deems necessary, as well as a 
budget for gathering informa- tion.
We cannot stress the impor
tance of quick and decisive ac- I 
tion on this matter. We only 
hope that action is taken before 
somebody gets burned  really burned.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 20, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 5
Letter to theEditor
StudentHypothesizes 
Merger Motives
The new name of our insti
tution has obviously caused 
great controversy amongst our 
ranks. This is dramatized by the 
blobules of malingering students 
clustered in violent snits moat
ing merits and demerits of the 
new handle with great pulchri
tude.
If one attunes ones ear to 
these discussions, one learns of 
the manifest dissatisfaction of 
the students. Many think it a 
Communist plot to shame the 
citys intellectuals into a feel
ing of great inferiority and foolishness, others claim it 
an insidious design stemming 
from the right-wing industrial
ists seeking to treble their in
vestments in the commodity 
markets. Extremist claims pur
port an administration plot to 
subversively re-orient the aca
demic function of the school into 
a land-grant agricultural col
lege, as it is rumored that po
tatoes have been discovered in 
Saxonburg! There is even the 
supposition that the whole thing 
is a publicity ruse for Albert 
T. Broccolis new movie on the 
life of Andrew Mellon, The 
Mellons of Wrath.
The manifold problems are 
weighty, the solutions esoteric. 
It was suggested by a friend 
that since the founding fathers 
first names coincide, we should 
rename the new conglomerate, 
Andrews University. A scheme 
of great promise! Yet, upon 
further investigation, we find 
ourselves outdone by an appostrophe. To be formally correct, 
we would be forced to say, An
drews University in deference 
to the plural possessive. Even 
so, there is the realization that, 
alas, both Andrews have passed 
away and, gramatically, cannot 
own anything.
A simple approach was made. 
It was an attempt to unite the 
names of the two parties in
volved, Carnegie University and 
Mellon Institute. Unfortunately, 
the resulting Carmel Unitute 
was unsatisfactory.
We have therefore advised by 
Professor Cranshaw of the new 
name committee to refrain from 
further debate. We must recon
cile ourselvs to the facts of life 
of this city. We must accept 
that as there is a Pitt, there 
must be a Mellon.
Sincerely, 
Barry W. Comet
Apocalypse
(Continued Page 3) 
inefficiency that the cheap man
power of the draft allows. Many 
tasks now assigned to service
men could be performed more 
efficently by machines or elim
inated entirely, reducing costs.
A further advantage of replac
ing the draft would be the end
ing of economic discrimination 
of the present system. A large 
fraction of the poor are reject
ed on physical and mental 
grounds. The relatively wealthy 
are in an especially good pos
ition to escape induction by at
tending college. Consequently, 
the burden of the draft dispro
portionately falls upon the up
per lower and lower middle 
economic groups. Statistics in
dicate that a vastly larger frac
tion of high school graduates 
are drafted than high school 
dropouts or college graduates.
(Continued on Page 8)
^filiitiiiii|il|lili!|iilnii!lii|iiliitii|li|ii|ii|ii|i!|ii|ii|ii|ii|iitii|ii|M|i|ii|ii| i i  11i  i mi ii!ii!|iiiil;'i i
I Attention Faculty and Students
WP.they ah lschtHsc" Pho fsey
I Bona fide discounts to 40% off at nearby manufacturer's 
| showrooms. Save on Lane, Thomasville, Bassett, Dux,
 Herman Miller, Paul McCobb, Thayer Coggin, etc.
-Gu n gac r fNu WOTE
BUY 9x12 (or larger) at Regular Price 
 GET 9x12 FREE I -1000 NEW 9x12 RUGS - $29, $39, $49, $69
| 6x9s, 9x15s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 12x18s, Etc.
i IP ONLY ONE RUG IS NEEDASK FOR SPECIAL LOW PRICE1
CHASES5432 WALNUT STREET
(N*xt to Shadytid* Post Offka)
i OPEN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
* Serving the College Trade
DIAL 621-1025
nil ii i lilil! i , i , i i i iii
CORPORATION
THE BIGGEST and RICHEST 
COMPANY in the U.S. A.?
of course not... it just looks that way to bright young 
men who recognize real opportunity when they see it!
FMC Corporation is only 67th among the largest companies in the United States, 
but it is No. 1 choice as a career-starting point for many young people  because 
of immediate advantages, a good, comfortable beginning, and unequalled longrange potential in personal career growth.
FMC Corporation IS large. In addition to all the plants in this country, it has facili
ties in Canada, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Africa, Spain, Japan, Belgium, 
France, Italy, Mexico, and England.
FMCs list of products would fill several pages! They are in four general groupings: 
Machinery, Chemicals, Defense, and Fibers and Films. Production ranges from solid 
fuels for space ships to garden seeds.
YOUR INTERESTS now and for the predictable future should be discussed with 
an FMC personnel advisor. He can give you a better idea of opportunities in your 
field of interest  and a very attractive offer on graduation.
FIND OUT ABOUT YOUR OPPORTUNITIES with a 
Career-Start at FMC CORPORATION
You will start your career with the tamed Ordnance Division of FMC, a vital, interesting, expanding 
facility located in the Magic Valley of Charleston, West Virginia. The city is metropolitan in thought 
and action, but you will be only a few minutes away from wild country, great hunting and fishing. It 
is an excellent place to work and to live.
We are seeking qualified B.S. and Graduate Students as  INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS  MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERS  METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS  INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT MAJORS  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY 
 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT (ACCOUNTING MAJORS)  MATHEMATICS COMPUTER SYSTEMS ANALYSTS
Send for FREE Brochure/Clip out and mail today!
CLIP OUT AND MAIL
MUST BE U S CITIZEN - 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
TO: Mr. Ron Evans, Personnel Division Dept CR-8
FMC CORPORATION 
ORDNANCE DIVISION
P.O. Box 8307  South Charleston, W. Va. 25303
Dear Mr. Evans: Please send me free brochure outlining 
career opportunities at your FMC Division.
Name:_______________________________________________________
Address:____________________________________________________
I understand that if Im interested in talking to a Company Rep 
resentative, A Campus Interview will be arranged.
\
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, September 20, 1967
GSIA Appoints Milligan To Speak
Visiting Professors At CMU Dames Tea
The Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration of Carnegie-Mellon University has an
nounced the appointment of two 
visiting professors for the 1967- 
68 academic year.
Dr. Egon Balas, currently a 
visiting professor at the uni
versity of Toronto, has been 
named the Ford Distinguished 
Visiting Professor for next year. 
Dr. Joseph W. McGuire, dean 
and professor of business ad
ministration at the University of 
Kansas School of Business and 
industrial administration for the 
fall semester.
A native of Rumania, Dr. Ba
las has served as a research 
economist and head of mathe
matical programming depart
ments in various sectors of the 
Rumanian government. His re
search has been in the fields of 
discrete programming, graphs 
and networks, and transporta
tion and decomposition prob
lems.
A native of Milwaukee, Dr. 
McGuire has been a professor 
in the College of Business Ad
ministration and acting execu
tive officer for the department 
of general business of the Uni
versity of Washington in Seat
tle. Also a visiting Fulbright 
professor at the Netherlands 
College of Economics in Rotterdan and a visiting professor 
at the University of Hawaii in 
Honolulu, Dr. McQuire has 
served as a consultant to indus
try and to various programs at 
other universities. Dr. McGuires 
principle research interests are 
business behavior and growth 
and organization theory.
Coffee House Opens 
For Foreign Students
New foreign students will be 
welcomed to the university at 
a coffee house this Friday in 
the Wherret and Highlander 
Rooms, Skibo, from 8 pm to 1 
am. The coffee house is free, 
and students, faculty members, 
and administrators are encourag
ed to attend to help greet these 
new international visitors.
The coffee house is the open
ing event of a year-long pro
gram sponsored by the Foreign 
Students Committee of the cam
pus YM&WCA, designed both 
to orient new foreign students 
to the campus and the Pitts
burgh area, and to promote internaional understanding and 
cultural exchange. As a central 
feature of the program, each 
foreign student is given a studnt guide, whose responsibilities 
range from contacting the stu
dents over the summer and 
greeting them on their arrival 
in Pittsburgh, to familiarizing 
them with the campus and aid
ing them to solve any problems 
which they may encounter. More 
students are needed to serve as 
guides, and those interested in 
doing so should contact either 
Miss Marianne Wisdom, chair
man of the Foreign Students 
Committee at 682-8716 or the 
campus YM&WCA at ext. 239.
Also planned for this year is 
an international festival, con
centrating on the culture of one 
country, and firesides for fore
ign students with members of 
the university faculty.
Over 1200 invitations have 
been sent to the wives of stu
dents to attend the annual Carnegie-Mellon Dames tea at 2:00 
pm Sunday, October 8, in the 
Highlander room, Skibo student 
union on the CMU campus. The 
tea will feature an introduction 
to Pittsburgh for the newcomers 
by Mrs. Virginia B, Milligan, 
Dean of Students.
The 1967-68 President o f 
Dames, Mrs. Wayne S. Tnomas 
of 4728 Lolly Drive, Monroeville, 
invites all student wives and 
female married students to at
tend the tea and join in the 
activities of the Dames through
out the year. Monthly meetings 
begin at 8:00 pm on the second 
Tuesday of every month. Special 
interest groups this year will 
include bridge, cooking, interior 
design, knitting and sports..
Loaves and Fishes Scene of Forum
Dick Mowry, manager of the 
sometime raided Loaves and 
Fishes coffee house in Shadyside, will be the first speaker 
at the YM - YWCAs Thursday 
Luncheon Forum which begins 
tomorrow. Everyoneis invited 
to participate in the weekly dis
cussion series which will be 
held in the Highlander Room. 
Lunches may be brought from 
the Skibo cafeteria or the facul
ty dining room as early as 12 
noon for the program that will 
begin at 12:30 and adjourn by 1:20.
Programs planned for suc
ceeding weeks include:
Sept. 28, The Middle East 
Aftermath, with Dr. Richard 
Cottam, professor of political 
science, Pitt
Oct. 5, Science Teaching in the 
Public Schools, with Dr. Max 
Braverman, radiation biologist, 
Allegheny General Hospital 
Oct. 12, Communicating Science 
to Laymen, with Dr. Stanley 
Angrist, associate professor of 
mechanical engineering, CMU 
Oct. 19, Opportunities for Ur
ban Involvement, with a panel 
of Carnegie students and faculty 
and Pittsburgh citizens 
Oct. 26, Steel and Pittsburghs 
Future, with Mr. Hiram Mil
ton, president Regional Industri
al Development Corporation
Anyone who has a suggestion 
for a program or who wishes 
to be on the planned committee 
may indicate this at 57 Skibo.CONFAB
CONFAB (CONversation, 
Food and Beverage) is the student-faculty luncheon series 
sponsored by the campus YMYWCA. CONFAB provides stu
dents and faculty a chance, to 
meet informally over lunch and 
to discuss topics of mutual and 
unusual interest 
The first CONFAB will be 
next Wednesday, September 27, 
at 11:30 A.M. in Room 107, 
Skibo. Bring your lunch and 
stay as long as you wish. All 
students and faculty on campus 
are invited, and a special in
vitation is extended to fresh
men and foreign students.
The topic of discussion for 
the first CONFAB will be the 
Free University on the Carnegie 
Mellon campus. CONFAE will 
be held on a weekly basis dur
ing the first semester.
Language Aid 
Available at Pitt
For those interested in im
proving their ability to speak 
the English language the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh is offer
ing the following schedule of 
lessons.
Afternoon classes: Mondays 
and Fridays, beginning Monday, 
September 11, from 1:30-3:00 
pm.
Evening classes: Tuesdays 
and Thursdays, beginning Tues
day, September 12, from 7:30- 
9 pm.
Classes which continue for 10 
weeks at the fee of $15 are held 
on the first floor of Bruce Hall. 
For further information one 
may phone Mrs. W. E. Harris, 
instructor for the course, at 
921-6433. Private lessons are al
so given.
dEE| ,_dEz MO,EfO EMBOduE
Be buy used Cameras, Typewriters & Projectors
Sellers Age Must Be 21 
3711 Forbes Avenue Phone 683-2181
Campas - FavoredW ALLY'S
MEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
WOMENHUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
U. 8. KEDSMIS Forbes Are. (Aerose fron Strand Theater)
_ctethPm
HOUSE
of
BEEF
VfG,E f_OWF -EEl
Served the Way You Like It
- PIZZA -
SERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMS! 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
IM
NOT
DEJECTED!
I SHOP ALEX REICH/FRANK
Meet the new breed. The Undeectables. Undejectable because 
they're going back to school 
with confidence knowing they're 
dressed right in clothing from 
Reich/Frank. Why don't you join 
the Undejectables? Shop our two 
big stores. - See our complete 
campus collection. Then let the 
Reich/Frank campus experts help 
you program your back-to-school 
wardrobe. They're confident 
you'il be confident.
Bristol Ltd. Vested Suits S69.95-S95 
Bristol Ltd. and Stanley 
Blacker Sport Coats...$29.90-555 
London Fog Raincoats, S37.50-S60 
Levi and Farah Stay-prest
Slacks .............................. S4.98-SI0
Mighty Mac Jackets..........S45-S75
Manhattan, Eagle and
Wren Shirts................................S5-S9
FREE MONOGRAMMING
A complete selection of everything for 
Boys in THE STAG SHOP. Remember . . . 
a perfect fit guaranteed everytime.
* Alex Reich open Monday,
Friday and Saturday Evenings
* Frank open Tuesday and Thursday Evenings
* Alex Reich/Frank, Mellon or PNB Charge Accounts
* STOP AT EITHER STORE FOR YOUR FREE IM NOT 0EJECTED
t.
/fatX
212 N. Highland Avenue 
East Liberty / ph 661-2257
5820 Forbea Avenue 
Squirrel HiU / pb 421-9600
Frank
"for that REICH LOOK in clothing99

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 20, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 7
TARTAN I
j. janke, Editor 
r. swoboda, Assoc. Ed.
From The Sideline
Times Running Out
James A. Janke, Sports Editor
With only a few days remaining before the season opener at 
Wooster Saturday, head football coach Joe Gasparella is having 
problems in filling several offensive and defensive starting assign
ments.
On offense, Joe Chernay, an outstanding defensive back for 
two seasons, will probably start at split end, with sophomore letterman Tony Bugel working on the other end spot. The backfield, 
where mast of the experience on the team is centered, will prob
ably consist of Hubka (QB), Getto (FB), Batorski (FB), and Bell, 
who has been playing with a bruised heel, at the flanker position. 
Charlie Zak will also see frequent action either as a flanker or 
running back. For the line, Paul Zugates and Denny Morabito, 
both sophomores, will probably start at the guard positions, and 
senior Glenn DeRusha and sophomore Roger Ohlson may start at 
the tackles. At center, John Slatosky is expected to start, and Bob 
Healea and Gene Giamelli are both expected to see action on the 
offensive line this year.
The defensive platoon is having problems both in the line and 
in the backfield. Terry Stalker, Emery Sedlak, Dennis Weakland, 
and Slatosky are competing for the outside line positions, with 
Giarnelli and Dick Helhowski on the inside. Ron Horn will play 
one linebacking spot, with Getto, Batorski, and Morabito going 
both ways as the other linebackers. Chernay with Dave Thomas 
and Bill Scattaregia have the best chances of starting in the deep 
secondary.
Missing from this years team will be John Barnes, who caught 
17 passes (including four for TDs) last year. Barnes torn knee 
cartilage will put him out of action for the entire season. About 
a dozen other players missed practice because of virus attack, 
hurting Gasparellas attempt to have intra-squad scrimmages, 
which are hard enough to conduct anyway because four or five 
players are playing both ways. Key injuries, especially to an offen
sive or defensive back, could hurt the Tartans chances consider
ably. Overall, this years team, the first to represent CMU, will 
be fighting uphill to equal or surpass last years 5-3-0 mark. *******
SHORTS: The Cross Country team invites all interested under
classmen to join the varsity team which begins its schedule of 
meets Sept. 30. Sign up in the athletic office in the gym or drop 
down for practice at 4:30 pm in the Donner Hall locker room.
Freshmen interested in becoming part of the Tartan sports 
staff, please drop a note in Skibo 50 or call me at 683-2076...........jj
laaHbPmm WK'"osm"TECH
Sept. 23--at WoosterVS.
Sept. 30- 
Oct. 7----
-at Oberlin 
 Allegheny
Oct. 14-
Oct. 21-
Oct. 2-
Grove City 
-F & M (HC) 
-------at Thiel
IT[ Wooster
: Broadcast Live
ON
Nov. 4-
Nov. 11-
-at Westminister 
--------------W & J
i WRCT-Radio 900
Saturday, Sept. 23 
2:00 P.M.
International
fa Artistic Hairstylng Expert
Razor Sculpture Cutting
By Appointment 682-3738
207 Oakland Ave. 
Below Forbes Avs.
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
: v&i t6e fiven j4Ueo&e*ut
+ ? y ?
by Jeff Raben
**?*??
*
*?*?*+
In response to the requests of our readers, the format of this 
column has been changed this year. Instead of concentrating on 
unusual, highly distributive hands, our emphasis will be on in
structive hands, illustrating basic techniques, and geared to the 
level of the averaged campus bridge player. This column will also 
serve to recognize CMU students who do well in area tournaments. 
Consequently, we would appreciate receiving rports at the Tar
tan office of the results of such matches.
Swingline
Test yourself...What do you see in the ink blots?
[1] A Japanese 
judo expert?
Just an ink spot? 
Mount Vesuvius?
This weeks hand illustrates 
called the hold-up:
S: J, 6
a simple but very useful play
H: K, J, 4
D: A, Q, 10, 7
C: 8, 7, 5, 3
NORTH
S: K, Q, 10,9/7 YVE
H: 8, 5, 2AD: 6, 4, 3SS
C: Q, 9TT
S: A, 8, 4
H: A, Q, 7
D: J, 9, 2
C: A, K, 10, 4
S: 5, 3, 2 
H: 10, 9, 6, 3 
D: K, 8, 5 
C: J, 6, 2
[2] An ax?
A Gene Autry saddle?
TOT Staplers?
(TOT Staplers!? What in...)
This is aSwingline
Tot Stapler
s
1NTP
W
P
P
N
3NT
SOUTH
E
P
Opening Lead: King of Spades.
When South sees the the dum
my, he can count one trick in 
spades, three in hearts and two 
in clubs off the top. He needs 
to make three diamond tricks 
without letting West run his 
long spades. To do this he must 
hold up his ace of spades for 
two rounds. He then wins the 
spade continuation and leads 
the diamond jack. East is in 
with the king, but has no more 
spades to return, and South 
makes his contract. Had he 
taken his ace of spades on the 
first or second trick, East would 
have been able to defeat the 
contract simply by returning a 
spade. The defense would then
cash four spade tricks and the 
king of diamonds. Since South 
cannot make more than ten top 
tricks even if the diamond fi
nesse wins, his play had noth
ing to lose. To put it another 
way, South pulled a hold-up and 
got away with the contract.
vthKmsothe rUUU yHPpm"y1 TPce"c yt2" MN- |"y5WHPpm"c ahmJ 3rA)(
NhKahotHtahPmmJ esPcPhH""oAOH PhJ yHPHtah"cJD .Pct"HJD ac baa5 yHac"A
<
INC.
T_du GWTOd| MGFzD dAzA rrrUr
'ueuisajes jaidms XOX B auiooaq pjnoqs noA :sje(dBig XOA I83!-*!* -am aj.noX : aippes Aj}ny auaQ y aAeq noX jaduia) gifct e jeq : xe uy g juon wctPcti ue >et(M Aoq :sniAn*ay\ )uno^ (BjijoBjd aj(noA : jods sjui 'spuequmo jnoA ui sSuim ai|8) noX :jjadxa opnf sauedef a aas noX ji , :sa3MSNV
I SUNBEAM
TIGER
Od_ALPINE
ROADSTERS
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized ^chrvsler Dealer. W
S&S JEEP
PITTSBURGH 
SUNBEAMSIMCA DEALER 
*Lrx*UUU 
213 PENN AVE.
W'l KINSPviG
-"Hk""h MmPyy"y ac PH WHsoJ -c"P5-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH Of ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
A place for existential interaction
cm.f ROADS
SUNDAY, September 24
[SUU -sgg"H [UU 
)SUU f"Pothey gca: ,Of0 F$OGd
Ted Scheuch
FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH
Bayard and Beliefield
.. Sponsored by ..
PROTESTANT CAMPUS MINISTRIES
Everyones 
getting 
the 68 bag 
from...MW MOTORS
Pittsburgh9s Factory Dealer 
RT. 8  ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, September 20, 967
; CAMPUS NOTICES :
Comedian Dick Gregory will appear at the assembly program 
on Sept. 26 at 11:30 am in the Skibo Ballroom.
FILM ARTS SOCIETY
Shane will be shown Thursday, Sept. 21, at 4:30, 7, and 9:30 
pm in Porter Hall 100.
VARSITY SWIMMING
A meeting will be held on Tuesday, Sept. 26, at 11:30 am in 
the Black Cat Lounge, Gymnasium Building, for those men inter
ested in the Varsity Swimming Program.
JAZZ BAND
Coming . . . CMU Concert Jazz Band tryouts Sunday, Oct. 1. 
Details in next weeks Tartan.
SATURDAY NIGHT MOVIES
Pal Joey, Frank Sinatra, and Captain Video, Part III, Skibo 
Ballroom, 8 pm.
PLAYHOUSE
Hamlet Street Theater: Once Upon a Mattress by Mary Rod
gers, Sept. 23 thru Nov. 12.
PITTSBURGH FLUTE CLUB
First Fall meeting and recital on Sept. 24 from 6:30 to 10 pm 
in the Duquesne University School of Music at Locust and Magee 
Sts. on the Bluff.
YM-YWCAThe Friday Cine Series will present The Servant. Twenty-five 
cents for members; 75 cents, non-members. DH100 at 7:30 and 
10 pm Sept. 22.
HOUSE OF THE RISING SUNCOFFEE HOUSE
Skibo, Friday night, will feature Harvey Lord quintet from 9 
pm to 1 am.
WCRTThe Carnegie String Quartet will be featured on Recital Hall, 
heard over WRCT on Sunday, Sept. 24, from 1:30 to 2:30 pm.
SELECTIVE SERVICE
On Tuesday at 11:30 am in the Gym, Colonel Grimm of the 
Selective Service Board will answer questions on new SS Proce
dures.
HOMECOMINGFraternities and dorms are reminded of a meeting Monday 
at 7 pm in Room 40, Skibo, at which time Homecoming themes will 
be approved.
THE CRUMBLING WALL
Top of the Wall will sponsor a film showing Friday and 
Saturday nights at 9:30. Films to be shown will be Night and Fog 
directed by Resnais, The Hole by Hubley, Hangman, and Reality 
of Karle Appel. The Crumbling Wall is located on Forbes just be
low Craig St 
VARSITY TENNIS
All students interested in playing varsity tennis please sign 
up in the athletic office, Room No. 103. A round-robin tournament 
will be organized to give the coach an early idea of the teams po
tential. For questions, contact Mike Smolens, Room 206, Hender
son Hall, or call 683-8577.
C-BOOKDo you live in a new apartment? Has your phone number 
changed? Let your friends know through the C-Book.
The C-Book wants your name, home and local address, phone 
number, major and class, and send it to A Phi O, Box 100, Campus 
Ma% before Sept. 26.
FOOD SERVICES
Food Services Fall ScheduleSkibo Main Dining Room: Monday-Saturday  Breakfast, 7:30 am9:30 am; Lunch, 11:00 ajn.- 
2:00 pm Dinner, 4:30 pm7:00p.m.
SundayBreakfast, 8:00 am10:00 am; Lunch, noon2:30 pm; 
Dinner, 4:30 pm7:00 pm.
Morewood Gardens: Monday-SaturdayBreakfast, 7:30 am 
9:30 am; Lunch, 11:00 am2:00 pm; Dinner, 4:15 pm6:15 pm.
SundayBreakfast, 8:15 am9:30 am; Lunch, noon1:45 pm; 
Dinner, 4:306:45 pm.
Tartan GrillMonday-Saturday 10:00 am12:00 pm.
Sunday10:00 am10:30 pm.
Food Interests? 
Join Council
Anyone interested in serving 
on Food Management Council 
should contact Tony Lawrence 
either by leaving their name at 
the Food Service Office (Skibo 
201) or Hammerschlag House,
A-106. Only a limited number 
may sign up. The committee ap
proves and discusses all com
plaints, menus, and considera
tions concerning food served to 
students on campus. Meetings 
are held once a week at 6 pm in 
Skibo 105 for dinner. The first 
meeting is scheduled for Tues
day, Sept 26.
WANTED., desperately!
STEREO componets or unit.
New or Used
CANDICE LOWEU TEPFER 
Painting Department
FzVGdu
Theses, reports, manuscripts, 
etc. For further information: 
Call: 271-2160
4 ROOMS FOR RENT
$40$50$40
Completely private, separate entry. 
Two full baths. Ten minutes from 
campus. Good parking. 201 North 
Murtland Avenue. Phone: 362-5447
New Parking Areas 
Require New Rules
Carnegie - Mellon Universitys 
urban location brings about cer
tain necessary regulations ap
plying to the parking areas 
maintained by the school. The 
following information is design
ed to clarify these regulations.
Facilities 
Area No. and Name Ent. Loc.
1. Fine Arts... .Margaret Morri
son and Tech St.
2. Scaife Hall..........Frew St. at
Scaife Hall
3. Skibo metered .......... Forbes
Ave. at Beeler St.
4. Skibo gated .... Forbes Ave. 
at Skibo
5. Morewood Gardens .. Forbes 
Ave., West of Morewood Ave.
6. Baker Hall .... Frew St. At 
Baker Hall
7. Margaret Morrison ___ Mar
garet Morrison St. nearForbes
8. Warner Hall..........Forbes at
Warner Hall
9. Emergency or special areas 
at various locations on campus.
Bicycle, motorscooter and mo
torcycle stands.
Parking permits must be ob
tained each semester or an
nually, depending on the type 
of permit. Applications are 
available at the Security Office, 
BH 139.
Faculty and staff members 
whose applications are approved 
will receive non-transferable 
permits or parkcards upon pay
ment of the assigned fee.
Students who are eligible to 
use the metered areas must ob
tain an identification permit at 
the Security Office. There is 
no charge for the permit. A 
schedule of times and rates are 
posted on each meter-head.
Regulations
1. Parking areas are restricted 
and controlled as posted. 
Space in parking areas during 
restricted hours is available 
only to registered vehicles dis
playing a currently valid CMU 
permit for that specific area.
2. C a m p u s patrolmen are as
signed the responsibility of 
overseeing and reporting ob
servance of the foregoing 
rules, of helping with park
ing problems, and in special 
circumstances, of directing 
and controlling traffic.
3. CMU is not responsible for 
any vehicle or for the contens of any vehicle while it 
is on CMU premises. The op
erator and/or owner of a ve
hicle being operated or parked 
on CMU premises shall at all 
times be responsible in the 
manner and to the extent set 
forth in the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle 
Code and the regulations of 
CMU.
4. The first offense, except park
ing meter violations, recorded 
in an academic year is to re
sult in a warning notice. 
Subsequent violations will be 
subject to the established code 
of fines and/or other discip
linary action. A code of viola
tions with prescribed fines and 
penalties is on file at the Cam
pus Security Office.
5. Vehicles parked in violation 
of the regulation for each 
campus lot and vehicles park
ed so as to interfere with the 
safety or normal operation of 
campus facilities will be tow
ed at the owners expense.
Chain Scholarship 
Applications Ready
The Chain Scholarship Divi
sion of the Leonard M. Greene 
Foundation, Inc. is currently 
awarding scholarships of up to 
$1,000 to enable needy students 
to complete their college edu
cations.
The requirements are: must 
be a senior in need of funds; 
plan to seek employment upon 
graduation rather than under
take a post-graduate curricu
lum; have grades of degree can
didate status; and when able, 
help CHAIN support future 
needy students.
The Chain Scholarship pro
gram has been in existence for 
five years, and is available in 
over 300 colleges. Its approach 
to, the scholarship problem is 
unique in two major concepts: 
faith in the avergae student; 
and faith in his integrity to as
sume a moral, rather than a 
legal obligation, and thus be
come a vital link in a chain re
action which can grow to pass 
along an endless continuum of 
help from those who were once 
in similar circumstances.
To apply for a Chain Scholarsip, obtain an application from 
the College Financial Aid Of
fice.
Apocalypse
(Continued from Page 5) 
Another advantage of ending 
the present system would be 
the freeing of institutions of 
higher learning to pursue their
Ryan Award Given To Music Professor
Oleta A. Benn, professor of 
music in the College of Fine 
Arts, has been presented the 
William H. and Francis S. Ry
an Award for-Meritorious Teach
ing. University President H. Guyfcrd Stever made the presenta
tion Sept. 13 at a faculty meet
ing.
Mrs. Benn is the seventh re
cipient of the annual award es
tablished by a $10,000 gift from 
Mr. and Mrs. Ryan of Sacramen
to, Calif. Mr. Ryan was a mem
ber of the class of 1925 at Car
negie.
The award takes the form of 
a certificate and honorarium and 
is given each year for execellence of teaching to a faculty 
member in one of the under
graduate divisions.
At Carnegie, Mrs. Benn has 
served as Chairman of Music 
Education, and in 1959, organ
ized the preparatory division in 
music. 'From 1958 to 1964, she 
served on the Research Council 
of the Music Educators Nation
al Conference and in 1965 was 
presented a Merit Award by the 
Alumni Federation of Carnegie.
proper functions.
The most compelling reason 
for replacing the present sys
tem with an entirely volunteer 
army, however, is that it would 
end a gross infringement of in
dividual rights, and halt the 
hypocritical practice of compell
ing someone to fight for free
dom.
NoteThe above opinions do not 
necessarily reflect those of the Tartan or of the administration, but are those of the author.
Koooeoeoeooooeooooooooooooooooec
Send A 
SUBSCRIPTION 
HOME! !
Maintain the Status-Quo 
Keep Your Parents Informed
FULL YEAR'S 
SUBSCRIPTION 
For Only $3.00
Send Coupon to: TARTAN, Box 17, Campus Mail
Enclosed is *3.00 for o One Year Subscription 
to THE TARTAN.
Parent's Name. 
Ad d r ess_______
City.
State..Zip Code.
Your Name.
Campus Address.
