TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 10 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1962
Campus Chest Drive 
Supports Worthy Aims
Kiltie Band Gives Pops Concert 
In Skibo Ballroom on Dec. 11
Sororities Entertain Rushees
CARNEER GIE ESTEITGUSEO GT USFHILGY WGITUER NEYO US BnUaH OAIUSm BHIHIUTp CARNo
Sororities Get 92 Pledges 
After Successful Rush Week
A successful rush week ended 
wilh 92 pledges for the seven 
sororities. The suspense was fin
ally over at 6:30 on November 19 
when the pledges met their sis
ters-to-be in Skibo. General mer
riment prevailed and all are 
happy with the results. The pledg
es are as follows:
ALPHA EPSILON PHI
Patricia Askwith, Judith Denberg, Lois Elinoff, Nancy Fieldson, 
Frances Freeman, Ruth Geshekter, 
Lou-Ellen Greenberg, Janet Greifinger, Rosalyn Gross, Marcia Is
rael, Bette Levy, Karen .Miller, 
Sheryl Rakoff, Barbara Slovin, 
Judith Steiner, Patricia Tuccio, 
Ellen Weiser, Carole Wolfe.
CHI OMEGA
Joanne Duda, Jean Holsinger. 
Lynne Jenkins, Nancy Mayberry, 
Pamela Mayer, Mary Neuhauser, 
Verna Ream, Deborah Sakmar, 
Joanne Swick, Mario Thomassy, 
Virginia Zastempa.
DELTA DELTA DELTA
Betsy-Jo Beckley, Janet Cain, 
Susan Crytzer, Gail Drake, Ellen 
Hamill, Charlotte Kiss, Mary 
Elizabeth Loree, Judith McCon
nell, Joanne Rose, Evelyn Yalch, 
Jane Ann Yard.
SIGMA KAPPA
Carole Breuer, Barbara Dull, 
Baila Handelman, Virginia Leitch, 
Virginia Mattern, Loretta MerE&S Announces 
Mid-Semester 
Frosh Factors
The Mid-semester quality point 
average for freshmen in the Col
lege of Engineering and Science 
(includs freshmen in the Depart
ment of Industrial Management) 
for the fall semester, 1962, is 1.94. 1 
Thirty-one freshmen are on the 
Deans List (factor of 3.00 or 
higher without failures) and thirty 
freshmen have factors of 1.00 or 
lower.
The quality point average for 
Engineering and Science freshmen 
at this time last year was 2,01,
curi, Christie Myers, Susan Ster 
hardt.
DELTA GAMMA
Veronica Antico, Sara Ann 
Cromley, Patricia Hartman, Jenni
fer Low, Pamela Meyers, Jacque
line Owen, Marylu Recco, Linda 
Rosen, Susan Seibert, Susan Stitt, 
Sally Sofield, Nancy Troglione, 
Sue Van Gorder, Janet Wurmb, 
Paulette Zdrojkowski.
Asuus scueflr hewhs
Jane Carson, Marie Drury, 
Donna Due, Patricia Gardner, 
Mary Jane Hebrank, Carol Kurtz, 
Marjorie Mathie, Jean Melaney, 
Susan Schumacher, Carole Smith, 
Lynelle Torno, Elizabeth Ruch.
KAPPA KAPPA GAMMA
Barbara Bashein, Patricia Bon
ner, Jean Cline, Norene DiBucci, 
Linda Fain, Saudra Folgelsauger, 
Pamela Garr, Emmy Gasnowski, 
Christine Hoffman, Joan Jacques, 
Karen Landau, Sally Morley, 
Jane OConnell, Carol Scheil, 
Jane Simpson, Cheryl Stanton.
Job Directories 
Now Available
A directory listing summer jobs 
throughout the United States for 
college students is now available. 
The 1963 Summer Employment 
Directory gives the names and 
addresses of organizations, posi
tions open, salaries, and sugges
tions on how to apply.
The many types of jobs in the 
directory are found at summer 
camps, resorts, various depart
ments of the government, busi
ness and industry. National parks, 
ranches, and summer theatres 
listed also need college students.
Students wishing summer work 
apply directly to the employers, 
who are included in the directory 
at their own request.
Copies of the new Summer 
Employment Directory may be 
obtained by sending $3 to Na
tional Didectory SLervice, Dept. 
C., Box 32065, Cincinnati 32, Ohio. 
Mark rush for first-class mail 
ing in December,
The Campus Chest drive is officially under way today. 
Since it will continue only until Friday, a concentrated effort 
is being made to contact everyone on campus. If a Campus 
Chest worker does not reach you, your donation will be 
gratefully accepted at the Skibo Information Desk.
In previous articles you have seen where your money 
will go and just how much your dollar can do. Now that the
campaign has begun, why not* ~ 
consider the actual moment of 
giving. College students are gen
erally classed as promising, intel
lectually active, and purposeful 
young people. Living in a college 
community, however, may tend to 
dull our consciousness of the 
problems which surround us.
Campus Chest, the one and only 
charity appeal on campus, is an 
expression of Tech Students con
cern for other people, people out
side their college existence.
tight spot by the Deans Emer
gency Loan Fund.
Wednesday through Friday, 
Tech students have a chance tc 
help other people. Make Campus 
Chest a big success.
Benny Benack 
Highlights 62 
CFP Formal
When a Campus Chest repre
sentative contacts you, try to 
avoid the immediate reaction of 
I just one more thing that takes 
my already dwindling funds. 
Think, maybe, about helping to 
te > provide recordings of Readings in 
Russian History for a blind stu
dent at the University of Virginia. 
Campus Chest contributes to Re
cordings for the Blind. Think, 
perhaps, that 10% of all Ameri
cans are Negro but Negroes com
prise only 1% of college students. 
Campus Chest contributes to Na
tional Scholarship Service and 
Fund for Negro Students. Think 
about people on our own campus 
fe who have been helped out of a
Music maker Benny Benack 
and his six-man Combo, one of 
Pittsburghs most popular groups, 
will highlight this years CFP 
Formal to be held in the Skibo 
ballroom, Friday, December 7 at 
9:00 oclock.
Benack, who just closed an en
gagement at the Riverboat Room 
of the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, will 
provide the music for the first 
CFP Formal ever to be held in the 
Skibo ballroom.
Intermission entertainment will 
be furnished by members of the 
fraternities. Special permission 
has been given to fraternity 
houses to remain open until 1:00 
a.m. that night.
On Tuesday, December 11, the 
Kiltie Band will give a Pops 
concert of semi-classical and pop
ular music. The program will in
clude a march, His Honor; over
tures from der Rosenkavalier 
and Barber of Seville; and a 
Suite of Old American Dances. 
These numbers, among others; 
will be directed by Dr. Richard 
Strange. Mr. Philip Catlinet, the 
bands Associate Director, will 
^ conduct two numbers, a suite, 
London; and an overture of his
own composition, Notingham 
Fair.
The concert will be given on 
Tuesday, December 11, in the 
ballroom at Skibo. It begins at 
8:15 and is open to the public. 
This is not the formal Winter 
Concert which the band gives each 
year, but a performance of the 
semi-classical music popular with 
students. A similar concert was 
given last December and was well 
received. The Kiltie Band invites 
all the students and faculty to its 
next Pops concert.
Dorm Council 
Adopts Korean 
Fostr Child
Most of the Tech students are
probably unaware of the fact that 
Womens Dormitory Council does 
more than just enforce dorm rules 
and regulations. The Council does 
have other projects, however, and 
one of them is to sponsor a Fos
ter Child.
For the past four and a half 
years, Womens Dorm Council has 
been sponsoring a Korean Foster 
Child, Cho Chung. Because of re
cently improved financial condi
tions in Cho Changs family, the 
Foster Parents Plan, Inc. has as
signed the Council a new child, 
Gloria Emma Villar, from the 
Philippines.
12 years old, is in the 
Her father left the 
several years ago, her 
put out for adopshe and her sister re
mained with her mother. A little 
while later, Glorias mother con
tracted tuberculosis, and the two 
girls were given over to their 
great-aunt and uncle.
Her great-uncle recently con
tracted T.B. and had to give up 
his job. The whole family is 
barely able to keep fed and 
clothed and there is no money left 
for school. Womens Dormitory 
Council is therefore helping Gloria 
this year.
A different member of the Coun
cil writes to her once each month 
(in English). The letters received 
from Gloria are printed and post
ed in each elevator of Morewood 
Gardens.
This activity is not limited to 
Dorm Council members. Anybody 
who is interested in writing to 
Gloria may do so. To obtain in
formation about writing, students 
should contact Liby Cure, the 
chairman of the project, at 6D6 
Morewood Gardens.

---------------------------------------------------

F 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, Deeember 5, 1962
Placement Bureau Gives Advice 
On Dress for Job Interviews
IVati Science 
Award $80,000 
For Research
Carnegie Tech has received two 
grants totaling almost $80,000
Assistance in securing permanent or summer employ
ment for students is provided through the Tech Placement 
Bureau. In order to help students get the jobs available, 
the Placement Bureau makes the following list _of recom
mendations, which are being distributed this semester to all ! ^^ the ^tiwar^i^ce 'F^nseniors and to other students utilizing its facilities. dation for research in the College
It is expected that all students using the facilities and 1 of Engineering and Science, 
services of the Bureau of Placements conduct themselves as j The department of physics re
ladies and gentlemen at all times; observe proper dress and ceived an award of $40,000 for re
grooming and be businesslike in their dealings with recruit- ! search in Solid State Theory, 
ers and the staff of the Bureau. A first impression is often a under the direction of James S.
lasting impression and we do want you to make a good im- , LanSer. assistant professor of*-----------------------------------------------------physics. A grant of $38,300 was
made to the department of elec- i ff j trical engineering for research in
BULLETIN
BOARD
pression. To this end the follow
ing recommendations should be 
followed.
1. Deportment  The Bureau of 
Placements is organized as a busi
ness office and students shouldScholarships
conduct themselves in a mature Two national scholarships
manner. Loud talking and laugh- college senior girls are offered for, 1963-1964 by the Katharine Gibbster and needless conversation School Thege awardg Were esta_
with the office staff cannot be
mustpermitted. Promptness is a 
in keeping ail appointment with 
company representatives and per
sonnel of the Bureau.
2. Dress and Appearance  
While the Bureau recognizes and 
encourages individuality, it does 
insist upon reasonable standards 
of dress and appearance, as fol
lows:
blished in 1935 as a memorial to 
Mrs. Katharine M. Gibbs, founder 
and first president of the School.
Each scholarship consists of full 
tuition ($935) for the secretarial 
training course, plus an additional 
cash award of $500, totaling $1,- 
435. The winners may select any 
one of the four Gibbs schools for 
their training  Boston, New 
York, Montclair, or Providence.
Winners are chosen by the 
Scholarship Committee on theMEN
a. All men participating in em
ployment interviews shall be 
suitably attired in a business 
suit or a subdued' sports ensem
ble. A dress shirt, tie and clean 
shoes are also considered essen
tial.
b. Proper personal grooming
will be required. This shall in
clude personal bodily cleanliness, 
a clean shave and a recent hair
cut. Beards and mustaches, while 
not recommended, should not be 
extreme and should be neatly _
trimmed.
c- It ^ impractical for the fore- gaalmail PreSdltS standards of dress to be i
the field of Photoionization of 
Gases by Radiation from Dis| charges. That project is under 
the direction of Gaylord W. Pen
ney, George Westinghouse Profesfr sor of Electrical Engineering.
The National Science Founda
tion has supported both research 
projects for a period of two years.
Tech has also been awarded a 
$191,000 three-year research con
tract by the Aeronautical Branch 
of the Aeromechanics Division of 
the Air Force Systems Command, 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
The contract was awarded for 
Research on Unconventional 
Methods for Influencing Fluid 
Flow. Research will be conduct
ed by Professor J. F. Osterle and 
Assistant Professor S. W. Angrist,
BESUHI sU^TAIER
Many Seniors have not as yet 
had their pictures taken for the 
1963 Thistle. The Photographer 
will be on campus only until this 
Friday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
basis of college academic record, | of the mechanical engineering depersonal and character qualifica- partment, and Associate Professor
tions, financial need, and poten
tialities for the success in busi
ness.
Each college or university may 
recommend two candidates, and 
each candidate must have this 
official endorsement. Students who 
may be interested in competing
for one of these Katharine Gibbs ; application in space technology.
awards may obtain full informa
tion from jthe college placement 
bure u.
going
insisted upon with respect to a 
students visit to the Bureau to 
make interview appointments or 
to confer with staff members. 
Normal student dress at these 
times is acceptable.
WOMEN
a. Proper dress for women be
ing interviewed by prospective 
employers at the Bureau requires 
heels and hose and a tailored 
dress or suit.
b. Personal cleanliness is a 
must. Makeup should be used 
moderately  perfume, eyebrow 
pencil and eyeshadow. Hair must 
be clean 
Neither long flowing dresses nor 
the large bouffant style are ac
ceptable in business offices and
Urban Design Talkn
Dr. Howard Saalman, associate 
I professor of the history of archi
tecture at Carnegie Tech present
ed the first in a series of five 
, lectures on Classical Principles 
in Urban Design, on Monday, 
November 26.
Dr. Saalmans first topic in the 
series, which is sponsored by the 
department of architecture, was 
j Renaissance Classicism at Ease 
and in Tension: Alberti, Bermante, and Michel Angelo.
Born in Germany, Professor
Professor Osterle has been at 
Carnegie Tech sine 1946. He re
ceived his B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. 
from Tech and has been a profes
sor in the department of mechan
ical engineering since 1958.
Professor Angrist received his 
B.S. from Texas A&M, and his 
M.S. and Ph.D. from Ohio State 
University. Prior to coming to 
Carnegie Tech this year, he served 
xjr four years as an instructor on 
the faculty at Ohio State.
Professor Young has been on 
the faculty since 1956. He also re
ceived his B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. 
degrees from Carnegie and has 
been an associate professor since 
1961.
Saalman received his A.B. degree 
- irom City College of New York,
and his M.A. and Ph.D degrees 
from the Institute of Fine Arts, 
New York University. He has also 
studied under
ernment Fellowship at the Uni
versity of Munich, and as a Fulbright Fellow at the University 
of Florence
should not be worn for business 
interviews.
c. For personal counselling ses
sions, normal student dress is ac
ceptable, except that shorts are 
never to be worn at any time 
in the Bureau.
Bloomer Exhibits 
Brass Sculpture
Stanford Gives (/. of Iowa Gives
r;rail Sfinendo Tourna! DegreesI The School of Journalism
The Stanford University De
partment of Communication is 
now receiving applications for 
graduate scholarships for the 1963- 
64 academic year. The scholar
ships carry stipends from *$1,410 
to $2,850.
The awards are for persons pre
paring for careers in editorial 
journalism, mass communications 
research, advertising and media 
research, and broadcasting and 
film.
For further information conAn exhibition of forger brass 
a Bavarian Gov- sculpture by Kent Bloomer open
ed in the Fine Arts Department 
on November 18, 1962. The ex
hibition includes seven major 
works, six of which have been 
Professor Saalman joined the ! completed by Mr. Bloomer since
Carnegie Tech faculty in 1958 ,he came to Pittsburgh in 1961 to
following his two year stay in , acce^ his Posent position as InFlorence Italv. structor of Basic Designs in the
Department of Architecture at the 
! Carnegie College of Fine Arts.
The artist was born in Mount 
Vernon, New York in 1935. He
' studied architecture at the Mas
sachusetts Institute of Tech nology. At the Yale University 
; School of Art, which he earned 
| B.F.A. and M.F.A. degrees, he 
' distinguished himself as the year! ly winner of highest honors for
of
the University of Iowa has several
programs designed especially for 
college graduates who have an in
terest In journalism as a career,
but who have had little or no... , . , ..., , . .   - , his sculpture and while still com-formal training or professional I __________________________
experience.
Curricula lead to the master of j
arts degree in journalism, either | His works were chosen |or
with or without a thesis. Recent Scultpure, U.S.A., the
pleting his studies there became 
an Assistant Instructor in 1960.
Graduates will have available 
without cost the placement service 
of the School, which each year 
receives a considerable number of 
inquiries from employers.
Assistantships, scholarships and
tact: the Executive Head, Depart- j fellowships are available; for 
ment of Communication, Stanford j further information contact: DiVJniversity, Stanford, Calif. Feb- rector, School of Journalism, The 
ruary 8 is the deadline for com- University of Iowa, Iowa City, 
pleting applications. i Iowa.
exhibition which was first held at 
the New York Museum of Modern 
Art in 1959 and subsequently 
circulated throughout the 
country. His work has also been 
shown at the Gallery Chalette, 
New York City, at the Yale Uni
versity Fine Arts Gallery and in 
other exhibits.
The exhibition will continue 
through December 16.
uNURTYE
The 1963 Thistle needs you, if 
you have talent in advertising 
sales. The job of advertising 
manager is one of the most chal
lenging jobs on the staff. It can 
provide a great deal of useful ex
perience for an engineering or 
management student interested in 
going into sales, and will be a fine 
reference when looking for a job.
Applicants for advertising man
ager should enjoy talking to peo
ple, make a good impression, and 
be able to get their point across. 
It will require a moderate amount 
of time each week and much of 
the work will not come until sec
ond semester. Applications should 
be in letter form addressed to The 
1963 Thistle, Box 1221, Campus 
Mail.
in the Lounge of the Mudge Grad
uate House.
----------------------------- (
lNIURTLGR lGIHYUSm
Everyone is invited to go | 
Christmas Caroling with the! 
Scotch and Soda Club on Decern- J 
ber 17. Those interested will meet ; 
in the Morewood lobby at 7:30. j 
; From Morewood we will drive to | 
j Oakland where we will sing at 
| various hospitals. The caroling 
; will terminate at Beta Sigma Rho 
Fraternity where refreshments 
will be served. ^
All Morewood girls interested 
should contact Lois Croco, 5B, be
fore Dec. 12, in order to get per
mission to stay out.
F. J. Young of the electrical en 
gineering department.
According to Professor Osterle, j 
the research will involve the in
vestigation of unusual methods of 
producing, augmenting, control
ling, measuring, and otherwise in
fluencing fluid flow for possible
B^HT^N Sb BHOG
We at Scotch and Soda have 
found a need for people with the 
desire and drive to handle any of 
the following positions: Stage
Managers, Set Designer, Prop 
Crew Heads, Crew Head, C $ - 
tume Designer, Running Crew 
Head, Head Carpenter, Drafts
man, Paint Crew Head, and Cos
tume Crew Head.
If you would like to have a 
major role in what is going to be 
Scotch and Sodas best produc
tion yet, please send your name, 
qualifications and the position in 
which you are interested to 
Scotch and Soda, Campus Mail.
sHETIp cRRH^UGTUHS
The National Poetry Association 
has announced that the following 
poems, written by Tech students, 
j have been accepted for publica| tion in the Annual Anthology o 
College Poetry.
Lovely Orange and Yellow 
Leaves by Margaret Anne Riva.
Poem8:30 A. M. by Meta Syl: vester.
Of an End by Sally Watkins 
Beinlick
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
rSTEISGTUHSGY lYAa
The International Club is hold
ing a Wine and Cheese party on 
Saturday, December 8, 8:30 p.m.
You'll rate with 
'your date...
For a meal or just 
a snackput Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertainment schedule.
kote!/ Welwte/o HfS1
4415 Fifth Avenu* Pittsburgh 13, Fc,
 Talaphort*: MAyflower 1-7700
ite$
EACH OF THESE PINGS IS ESPECIALLY DESIGNED TO MODERNIZE > ')UR TREASURED DUVuNDS.
BUDGET TERMS TOO.
CARNEGI STRUEO FRTHL YWT SWIIRBR COnURaOL
John M. Roberts & Son
Downtown Mt. Lebanon
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday December 5, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
rLutherans Lay Cornerstone For 
New LSA University Center
The first buildings to be erected 
specifically for campus religious 
I wrk is rising rapidly out of the 
 ground midway between the Pitt 
and Tech campuses. Official digni
taries and friends gathered on 
Sunday afternoon, December 2, 
for the laying of the cornerstone 
of the Lutheran University Center 
at 4515 Forbes Street, opposite 
the Carnegie Museum.
The servive began in Heinz 
Memorial Chapel on the Pitt camR , pus with an address by Dr. Wil5*liam C. Hankey, the president of 
the Western Pennsylvania-West 
Virginia Synod of the Lutheran 
Church in America. The congre
gation, followed by the clergy, was 
led to the site by the cross-bearer, 
Tech student Thomas Kenat.
Participating in the cornerstone 
laying were Pastor Charles W. 
Carlson, Lutheran Chaplain to 
students in Pittsburgh, Dr. Hankey, Gordon Ewald, student presL ident at CIT, and Mr. Russel 
Jones, president of the Lutheran. 
Student Foundation Board, also a 
student at Tech. The architect of 
the Lutheran University Center is 
John Pekruhn, R.A., and the 
builders J e n d o c o Construction 
Company of Pittsburgh.
Following the ceremonies a re
ception was held in Skibo Hall on 
the Tech campus.
The Lutheran University Cen
ter is the first such center built in 
Pittsburgh. Other campus minist
ries function from nearby church
es or houses. The Center will pro
vide a chapel, staff offices, lounge, 
library, recreation and dining fa
cilities for the Lutheran students 
of Metropolitan Pittsburgh.
>IM Society 
Holds Meeting 
In December
With the statement that the 
/^American stock . market could
I forseebly suffer a crash in the fu
ture similar to the one in 1929, 
Mr. Gert Von der Linde, profes
sor of economics, GSIA, closed
the second meeting of the Indus
trial Management Society last 
Thursday night. Mr. Von der 
Linde spoke on speculation tech
niques on the stock market.
The first meeting, held in Oc1 tober, was presented by a group 
I k*of senior I. M.s and first year 
GSIA men who related their sum
mer job experiences in industry, 
this was in keeping with the so
cietys goal of offering topics that 
are not usually available in the 
normal curricula for Tech stu
dents. The December meeting will 
be an informal, social gatheriix 
of studeots and GSIA faculty for 
the purpose of improving stu
ff dent-faculty relations, as well as 
| & discussing the problems of the
business world and the role I. M. 
graduates will play in solving
these problems.
In keeping with this over-all 
project of making the I.M. pro
gram known in the campus and 
business world, the I. M. society 
has taken the responsibility of
providing all the articles for the 
December issue of the Technical
I which will be devoted to the ex
planations and examples of the
role of the industrial manager in 
the modern business world.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
uNE 2ATNEIGS .SU5EIRUTp lESTEI HS 0HIaER c5ESAE 
GR UT dUYY YHHn dNES ^HLWYETEOo
Technical Offers Interesting, 
Varied Articles In Nov. Issue
The Carnegie Technical, in its attempt to provide worth
while and varied material to its readers, presents in its No
vember issue articles concerning a wide range of topics: 
poetry, historical economics, biological chemistry, comput
ing machines and the thinking process, and industrial psychology.
In her article, D. H. Lawrence, Joyce Minor, a senior 
English major, analyzes the poets style and his use of 
imagery. Her article discusses, in particular, his use of com
monplace objects and nature images as description.
A member of the Carnegie Tech-e----------------------------------------------------
nical staff, and Pi Delta Epsilon,
National J ournalism Honor
ary,, Miss Minor is also training
Inter-Collegiate Congress 
Requests Poetry for Anthology
Poetry Wanted for the new 
1962-63 Inter-Collegiate Poetry 
Congress Anthology. Selections 
will be based upon poetic merit 
and chosen from colleges and uni
versities throughout the country. 
If accepted, all future publishing 
rights are to be retained by the
author. All contributors shall be 
notified of the editors decision 
and shall have the opportunity of 
obtaining the completed anthology.
Submit to: Inter - Collegiate
Poetry Congress, 203 South Third 
Street, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
chairman for the Panel of Amer
icans and was organizations co
editor for the 1962 Thistle.
The Importance of Nucleic 
Acids was written by Stephen 
Harwood as a follow-up to the 
article, Creation of Growth in 
the Test Tube, which appeared 
in the November, 1961 issue of 
the Carnegie Technical. It is based 
on research done for the Ameri
can Cancer Society at the Uni
versity of Alabama Medical Cen
ter during the summer of 1961. 
The article explains the mechan
ism by which Growth synthe
sized in the test tube was per
formed, and mechanical and 
chemical details as to how all 
life grows and reproduces. Mr. 
Harwood is a junior chemistry 
major very much interested in 
biochemistry.
An interest in international 
policy and strategy led Charles 
Chriss to write his article, Per
ception and Internatiional Deci
sion-Making. Mr. Chriss uses, in 
conjunction with his article, a 
chart illustrating the opinions 
held by various nations about the 
people of both Russia and the 
United States and an original dia
gram illustrating a bi-partv con
flict situation.
Robert Schwarz, Associate Pro
fessor of History at Carnegie 
Tech, wrote Medieval Business 
Practices. His article, the result 
of work done from 1945 to 1948, 
for his doctoral thesis at the Uni
versity of Wisconsin, draws on 
Rabbinical literature as sources 
for medieval business history.
Professor Schwarz has had arti
cles on medieval and modern 
Austrian political studies pub
lished in the Western Political 
Quarterly, American Journal of 
Legal History, and the Journal 
of Public Law. He teaches classes 
in problems of philosophy, history 
of philosophy and classical civi
lization,
Elaine Vezzani discussed The 
Psychological Effects of Automa
tion of the Worker, which was 
written during a course in In
dustrial Psychology. This is Miss 
Vezzanis second article for the 
Carnegie Technical; The Hered
ity of Epilepsy appeared in the 
October, 1962 issue. Miss Vez
zani is a senior in the depart
ment of psychology.
As a first year graduate stu
dent in the department of math
ematics, Don Hall has a special 
interest in systems and communi
cation sciences. His article Arti
ficial Intelligence deals with the 
simulation of artificial intelligence 
on a computer. Mr. Hall wrote the 
article as a senior honor thesis 
while attending Brown Univer
sity. Although he used the work 
of Doctors Simon and Newell of 
Carnegie Tech as a model, Mr. 
Hall has an entirely new approach 
to the programming of the learn
ing process on a machine. Mr. 
Hall is a member of Phi Beta 
Kappa, Sigma Psi, and the As
sociation for Computing Machin
ery.
Such a varied publication as 
the November issue of the Car
negie Technical which will soon 
be on sale should certainly be of 
interest to every student on the 
campus of Carnegie Tech.
BPghB BPghB
WALLYS
SGHAnL f mGpWTRU
TARNw
CARNEGIRCSRTC
2gc0hCB
02cuB
vChBB BPghB
BPghB
iNw
P.BP y s.ssrhB 
2gc0hCB 
,cBBc:rl 
02gCBPhr,
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE.(Across from Strand Theater)
On CamposwithMaxShulman
(Author of I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, **The Many Loves of Dobie GiUis, etc.)
COMMITTEES:
AN AGONIZING RE-APPRAISAL
To those of you who stay out of your student government 
because you believe the committee system is just an excuse 
for inaction, let me cite an example to prove that a committee, 
properly led and directed, can be a great force for good.
Last week the Student Council met at the Duluth College 
of Veterinary Medicine and Belles Lettres to discuss purchasing 
a new doormat for the students union. It was, I assure you, a 
desperate problem because Sherwin K. Sigafoos, janitor of the 
students union, threatened flatly to quit unless a new doormat 
was installed immediately. Im sick and tired of mopping that 
dirty old floor, said Mr. Sigafoos, sobbing convulsively. (Mr. 
Sigafoos, once a jolly outgoing sort, has been crying almost 
steadily since the recent death of his pet wart hog who had 
been his constant companion for 22 years. Actually, Mr. Sigafoos 
is much better off without the wart hog, who tusked him 
viciously at least once a day, but a companionship of 22 years 
is, I suppose, not lightly relinquished. The college tried to give 
Mr. Sigafoos a new wart hoga frisky little fellow with floppy 
ears and a waggly tailbut Mr. Sigafoos only turned his back 
and cried the harder.)
But I digress. The Student Council met, discussed the door
mat for eight or ten hours, and then referred it to a committee. 
There were some who scoffed then and said nothing would 
ever be heard of the doormat again, but they reckoned without 
Invictus Millstone.
Invictus Millstone, chairman of the doormat committee, 
was a man of actionlithe and lean and keen and, naturally, a 
smoker of Marlboro Cigarettes. Why do I say naturally? 
Because, dear friends, active men and women dont have time 
to brood and bumble about their cigarettes. They need to <>e 
certain. They must have perfect confidence that each time they 
light up they will get the same gratifying flavor, the same 
Selectrate filter, the same soft soft-pack, the same flip top 
flip-top box. In brief, dear friends, they need to be sure its 
Marlborofor if ever a smoke was true and trusty, its Marlboro. 
Get some soon. Get matches too, because true and trusty 
though Marlboros are, your pleasure will be somewhat limited 
unless you light them.
Well sir, Invictus Millstone chaired his doormat committee 
with such vigor and dispatch that when the Student Council 
met only one week later, lie was able to rise and deliver the 
following recommendations:
1. That the college build new schools of botany, hydraulic 
engineering, tropical medicine, Indo-Germanie languages, and 
millinery.
2. That the college drop football, put a roof on the stadium, 
and turn it into a low-cost housing project for married students.
3. That the college raise faculty salaries by $5000 per year 
across the board.
4. That the college secede from the United States.
5. That the question of a doormat for the students union 
be referred to a subcommittee.
So let us hear no more defeatist talk about the committee 
system. It cart be made to work!IMS M Shut
You don't need a committee to tell you how good Marlboros 
are. You just need yourself, a Marlboro, and a set of tastm 
buds. Buy some Marlboros sottn at your favorite tobaccm 
counter.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa ge 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 5, 1962
hOUTHIUGY
Economic Squeeze on Both Sides
Editor's Note:
The following discussion of the tuition 
raise was broadcast over WRCT before 
Thanksgiving vacation by Robert Hale. It is 
printed here so that those who missed the 
broadcast can have the opportunity to read 
it.
Carnegie Institute of Technology is, in my opin
ion, the finest engineering school that this country 
has. Its instructors are of the righest quality, its 
administration is one of the ablest that a school can 
have, and its student body is of the highest poten
tial and accomplishment. It is not unusual, there
fore, that a school of this quality should have high 
operating expenses. It is not unusual that these 
operating expenses should follow present trends in 
our national economy. The school is placed in a 
vice, the opposing forces being on the one hand, a 
need to maintain and to even excell present edu
cational standards, and on the other, the continuing 
increase in cost of even the present educational 
standards. Carnegie Tech is pursuing one course 
of action  the increase of tuitional costs to the 
student to help offset the cost of his education.
Unfortunately, the year-by-year increases in 
costs to the student, however necessary and justi
fied, are rapidly pricing the student out of an edu
cation. The fact that other schools over the nation 
are faced with the same problem is small consola
tion to the student who, contrary to sometimes 
general opinion, has only a finite amount of money 
available. It is necessary, at this point to re-state 
that the school, whether here or elsewhere, is not 
at any fault in trying to present to the student the 
best possible education it can offer with the money 
it has. But the question remains, where is the 
student going to get the money?
Well, his parents can supply the necessary 
money. Unfortunately good students do not neces
sarily come from homes with large bank accounts.
There are scholarship funds. Unfortunately 
again, not every one can maintain scholarship 
grades. Those of you here at Tech who are using 
scholarship funds know that maintaining a 2.75 
quality point average is no mean feat. We have a
oRGURTL sTEOR
very large percentage of Carnegie Tech students 
who cannot be on scholarship funds.
There are always outside jobs. Many do work 
from sheer necessity, but jobs, especially during the 
summertime, are not available for everyone.
There are long term loan funds available. Now, 
this is the crux of the problem! The present loan 
fund programs give to the general public the illu
sion that any so-called deserving student can 
receive a so-called education. They not only 
delude the public, but school administrations as 
well. Let us evaluate the long term loan situation. 
In general, long term loans can be either National 
Defense Education Act funds, Federal loans as they 
are called, or funds on a long term basis from Car
negie Tech itself. The maximum amount of money 
that can be borrowed from one loan program or 
the other, not both, in a given academic year is 
$1,000. In terms of present educational costs, $1,000 
is approximately one-third of total costs. With the 
year-by-year increase in costs, this figure will 
change to cover only one-fourth the cost and after 
that  one-fifth, one-sixth, and so on. True, in
creases in amount of aid have been promised, but 
where were they over at least the past four years? 
Federal assistance is not going to increase without 
congressional action; therefore, the only long term 
loan program that can increase to any meaningful 
value is Carnegie Techs program of long term aid.
To the powers that be within the school that are 
now considering the schools long term aid pro
gram: it is sincerely felt that they will realistically 
consider the students ability to finance his own 
education when they consider setting a new maxi
mum figure on the long term loans.
Gentlemen,, you are not the only people who 
are caught in the ecenomic squeeze. No matter how 
justified you are in tightening the economic squeeze 
on us, the student, so that the pressure on the 
school is alleviated, it is we the student who will 
have to grin and bear it, if we can still afford to 
be here to do so. All we are interested in is a 
chance to get an education. Please dont let us 
down!
Robert Hale
Readers Air Critical Views
Student Com plains 
Of Time Machines
Editor, The Tartan:
I feel, especially after the 
events of the past week, that 
the disintegration of Carnegie 
Tech is near. This institution,
supposedly one of the nations 
top three engineering wise, has 
miserably failed in fulfiling its 
duty to the students. This fail
ure is simple in nature. In that 
(1,) it is unable to keep the stu
dents enlightened as to the cor
rect time, and (2) it fails to see 
that the coin machines in the 
mens dormitories are in wovking order, the end i osbviously 
close at hand, I, as many other, 
feel that steps to correct these 
faults should be immediate and 
decisive.
F. S. Blackburn 
Chemistry, 66
Weapons Offensive
^CARNEGIE Or Defensive?
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo. Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 1- 
1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief ....................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor ......................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager .........................................Miron Straf
News Editor ...................................................Joyce Holy
Assistant News Editor ................................Margie Park
Features Editor ...................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor .................................................Anne MoserAdvertising Manager.......... ...............Charles HoFook
Sports Editor .....................................................John BlueLayout Editor ..............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor ............................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor .............................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum, Colin Jones, Margie Fark, Henry Henderson, 
ana B.J. Zimnewicz
Layout Staff: Fritz Klinke. Marion Mulligan. Nancy Cameron. Mike McCoy. Drew 
Lippay. A1 Pollock, Ann Carter-, Karen Smith, Holly Lawerence, and Betty 
Kuhn.
Nra Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Mooie, Fay Landau. Frank Brady. Gladys Stalinsky, Jaye Lapidus, El lit Denbeig, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan. Lois 
Elinoff. Janice Lester, Jam Leone. Maity Saur. Chuck Steinme.ver, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyer*. Jan Scharp. Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
(tport*: Scott McCormick, Mike CampbeU
Photography: Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinebaugh
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenstein. Jean Cline, Susan Witt
Circulation: Torti Johnson, George Kail and Jay Priest
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Advertisements For 
Myself
Editor. The lanan:
The anecdote that its offen
sive if its theirs and defensive 
if its ours is not exactly an ex
ample of fair play on words. 
This indecision of which weap
ons are to be considered offen
sive and which are to be con
sidered defensive is on what 
much of the Cuban controversy 
has hinged. Definition, in es
sence, is an individual matter, 
and lies in the eyes of the be
holder.
President Kennedy had an in
teresting dividing line between 
the two. He admitted that the 
short range ground-to-air mis
sies and MIG jet fighter inter
ceptors in Cuba were defen
sive. But when sites for in
termediate range missies and 
tactical bombers were spotted 
by U.S. intelligence, h called 
these weapons offensive.
From the viewpoint of Cuba 
the weapons are decidedly de
fensive. Its 2,500-mile coastline 
and the U S. base at Guan
tanamo make Cuba intensely 
susceptible to an invasion which 
the U.S. has threatened.
What then does Cuba do in 
defense? Short range groundto-air-missles are fine in de
terring attacking aircraft; how
ever, it is much more effective 
to strike the planes at their
Do you actually believe what you write? This ques
tion has been asked about this column more than once. 
The answer is a most emphatic yes! The fact that a person 
differs from the majority on basic issues should come as no 
surprise to anyonethe ideas accepted by the majority can 
not change unless someone first suggests an alternative. 
Nicholas Copernicus offered the opinion that maybe the 
Earth was not the center of the universe even though the 
established authorities (especially church) condemned 
such heretical views. If the ideas held by a majority were 
printed in this column, it would simply have no purpose. 
The ideal goal of this writer is to be figuratively A Candle 
in the Darkness. He can not make any such claim if he 
writes on subjects with which the majority agrees. So he 
must choose those areas in which he believes he can make 
some contribution by opposing the status quo. For this 
writer that is comparatively easy.
However, the question of publicizing any minority 
viewpoint is a much larger and more serious one. While 
most people in the United States grant any person the 
right to speak on what he pleases, this freedom is more 
one of law than of spirit. (And even the law fails to protect 
Communists in presenting their views.) People think that 
calling any idea radical immediately brands it as wrong. 
An idea is not wrong only because it is radical. Was not 
the Declaration of Independence radical? The idea of 
radical thoughts having something intrinsically wrong 
with them can be combated with logic if the opposition 
will listen; attacks on persons who hold such ideas are even 
more damaging. For instance, A Tartan editorial said, It 
is time that the pseudo-sophisticate who preaches this doc
trine was placed in his proper perspective, in reference to 
an idea which is supported by a large minority, or perhaps 
a majority. The editorial implies that because a minority 
view is popular, and people who hold minority views have 
a certain status in society (is this bad?), that people who 
advocate such ideas are pseudo-sophisticates. In that case 
who are the triie sophisticates? The people who hold the 
view of the writer of the editorial? It is a dangerous thing 
specific substantiation. The editorial writer could always 
to title any person or group with a broad phrase without 
be called an intellectual snob and a real name-calling 
contest started. The danger isthe use of broad phrases 
by well-intentioned majorities (or minorities) will tend to 
make people prejudiced against an idea advocated by the 
person or group smeared even if the idea itself is at least 
worthy of thought.
The value of opposition is the positive one of making 
society re-examine its values, and each individual re-evalu
ate his views. To have a free society, ideas must be ex
changed on an equal basis.
bases. Or how about having the 
capacity, in discouraging a U.S. 
attack, to strike at U.S. cities 
and make this attack too costly 
to the United States?
Clearly, a deterrence weapons 
system, in complying with its 
d( f ition, must not be used 
it must deter an attack. Obvi
ously, in a battling exchange of 
nuclear arms, Cuba would not 
last a day. So the idea of a first 
strike by Cuba is not a sound 
one.
The Pentagon takes a slightly 
different view however. Cuba's 
weapons, since they threaten 
and endanger U.S. teritory 
which has not been in devas
tation since the Civil War, are 
offensive-.
Another pressing reason for 
this view on behalf of Washing
ton is that the chance of a nu
clear first strike from an addi
tional direction unbalances and 
upsets the United States mili
tary stature in relation to the 
Soviet Union. The U.S. has no 
radar warning system pointed 
toward Cuba, ergo, missies from 
Cuba could pounce on the U.S. 
with virtually no warning time. 
We, therefore, would be faced 
with an unforesen contingency 
by Soviet nuclear weapons in 
Cuba.
According to I. F. Stone, auth
or of the I. F. Stone Weekly, 
and ardent supporter of the idea 
of disarmament, the weapons 
used by a nation of about 6,000,- 
000 population against a nation 
of approximately 190,000,- 
000 should apparently be la
beled defensive. I think that 
this is not only a valid, but a 
most logical conclusion.
-Kadi Kadish
expressing the views of 
the Student for Liberal 
Thoughts and Actic*.
Student Critical 
Of Candles Light
Editor, The Tartan:
Mr. Axelrad, who dutifully 
writes his column in your news
paper last week, turned out a 
totally worthless and ambiguous 
argament against school spirit,. 
He stated that absence of school 
spirit as such symbolizes ma
turity in the student body. I 
ask: In what way? He states 
that possibly other things are 
more important than cheering, 
etc. No doubt! But what other 
things, and is he so sure that 
these other things are not 
closely related with school 
spirit? Another question: what 
are meaningless rituals and 
what makes them meaningless? 
These questiori he left unan
swered.
The views expressed in Mr. 
Axelrads Darkness (Perhaps a 
more fitting name) are strictly 
those held by a small number 
of people on this campus who 
call themselves non-comformists but, in fact, are nothing 
more than pseudo-sophisti
cates, to quote you. Acceptance 
to Carnegie Tech tends to turn 
some students into little tin gods 
of the text-book and slide rule.
(continued on page 5)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 5, 1998  CARNECK TARTAN  Fage S
CEG^THIR MItE klHSUoJ
New Outlook
Limited War
School Spirit Man 
Attacks Axelrad
1.(continued, from page 4)
They view their fellow students 
as fools if they exhibit enthuiasm for anything not taught in 
the lab or clasroom.
In turn, these non-conformists 
(he said it, I didnt!) make it 
very hard for many students to 
enjoy life on this campus, even 
though they are a small group. 
They make up for their size in 
their verbosity. Speak loudly and 
forget the stick! They sit N back 
and criticize, considering them
selves more mature and there
fore superior to the average stu
dent, without showing any 
foundation for their critiques. 
They are quick with labels that 
read CONFORMIST or IMMA
TURE! !
I, for one, will not be shaken 
by concern of being labeled by 
these pseudo-intellectuals, and I 
will continue to exhibit spirit for 
this schools activities. My hope 
is that there will be less concern 
for being meaninglessly labeled 
by non-conformists. The result 
eould.be more school spirit with
in our student body.
To those who are concerned: 
you are still decent students of 
this school, even though you do 
not crave knowledge alone. As 
Mr. Axelrad pointed outthere 
are two types of school spirit, 
educational and social. Many of 
us have both. I believe we are 
the lucky ones.
Sincerely 
James H. Levy 
EE 65
By Stephen T. Miller
Over the past few weeks, the eyes of the world have 
watched another of these undeclared limited wars, which 
have become so popular of late. The two giants of the East 
have arisen and slapped at each other or at least one of 
them has tried a few thrusts. China has jabbed at India and 
with each jab has come way with another hundred square 
miles of territory. In the meantime, India has shaken her 
[>)Shead and reacted as a punch drunk fighter does when jabbed 
consistantlv. She has ruled and stumbled, continually back
ward.
We have heard of rallys and offensive movements only 
to read a few days later, that they ended with another Com
munist advance. If we remove all of the wishful thinking of 
our correspondants and the propaganda output of Nehrus 
press agency, we come to the not overly startling fact that, militarily, 
India has been defeated at every turn. She has done little else but 
IS^etreat.
ets under the former policy a 
chance to make alternate plans.
We know that the Drama De
partment has the right to change 
their policies, but we feel that 
when these changes affect the 
student body fair notice should 
be given. We hope that those 
students who got tickets for the 
evenings they desired enjoy the
play.Robert L. Mertens 
Joseph S. Rubenfeld 
Peter V. Froedden 
Lynn X. Whitney
Student Questions 
Ruarks Comments
Editor. The Tartan:
As one who shares his daily life
happily with the faculty and the 
students of this campus I could 
not find a better medium to ex
press my views on the press of 
this part of the country. In par
ticular the Pittsburgh Press, 
which seems to be the popular 
newspaper in the city, published 
a series of critical reviews (?) by 
Mr. Robert C. Ruark on his In
dia tour. The latest in the series, 
entitled Indian Mire published 
in Pittsburgh Press on November
2, 1962, is typical. After finding 
out the meaning of the word 
mire, with the help of a dic
tionary, I did not feel very bad 
of not knowing it.
For the benefit of those who 
missed this article I would like 
to quote the following. The Hin(continued on page 6)
Now however, the picture is changing somewhat. Indias World 
War I, Lee Enfield, single action, rifles are being replaced by modern 
United States automatic weapons, British arms and Cauberra bombers 
are being flown to India. Australia has volunteered weapons and 
munitions. The UAR and other neutral states are standing behind 
India and are offering her excess arms. Probably* most important, 
however, is the fact that Indias economy is rapidly shifting to war 
^production and is at long last making available those supplies which 
were so sorely lacking in the mountains of Tadakh and the North 
East Frontier Agency.
Does this mean that India can now defeat China in open war? 
By no means is this implied! What is stated is that under present 
conditions there exists an element of doubt concerning the ultimate 
Chinese triumph. In other words the Chinese can not be sure of 
humbling India now. They recognize this and are acting accordingly.
They have won this war and now wish to also win the peace. 
Theyve humbled India and Nehru. Theyve shaken Indias govern'Sl/nent as never before and they have gained all of the property 
that they initially desired. A smart gambled stops while hes ahead 
and so it is with China.
We, the West, can not permit this to happen. If we do, it will 
completely nullify many of our gains which we achieved through 
our Cuban policy. We must again stand up. take decisive action, and 
force China to relinquish her gains to India. We have stood up in 
Greece, Turkey, Berlin, and Cuba. We have triumphed in all of these. 
We must now add India to this list. India has been a neutral nation 
and our treatment of her will highly influence the policy decisions 
0|^of all neutrals. We must force Communist China to back down as we 
did Soviet Russia, for the former is the most direct challenge to 
these neutrals. We must exhibit strength and consistant policy if we 
are to triumph. The IndiaChina conflict should be no exception. 
Here as everywhere else, we must maintain our image if we are 
to, as a minimum, ensure the neutrality of these nations. If China 
can set a goal, capture it, and then say I quit, then the free world 
might as well give up now, for in the long run, piece by piece, we 
will be destroyed.
Who Got Tickets 
To Techs 6Othello
Editor, The Tartan:
We would like to express our 
EXTREME dissatisfaction with 
the abrupt change in policy of 
the Drama Department in the 
distribution of tickets to Oth
ello. In the past student could 
obtain one ticket per I.D. card, 
with no limit of I.D. cards per 
person. This arangement enabled 
students having classes until 4:30 
to have their friends get them 
tickets for evenings most in de
mand. However, on November
15, at four oclock, when the 
tickets for Othello were to be 
distributed, with approximately 
200 studehts in line, many of 
them planning to get tickets for 
friends, the Drama Department 
suddenly announced a limit of 
two I.D. cards per person. This 
action was entirely unfair be
cause it did not give students 
who were planning to get tickCOR/R-OHT  1961, THE COCA COLA COMPANY COCA.COLA AND COKE ARE REGISTEREO TRADEMARK
EVERY MANS 
CHEERLEADER
Sportsman or spectator, youll cheer for the Gordon Dover Club Shirt. Softly rolled button- down medium-point collar is teamed with a center plait in back and button on back of collar. Perfect fit results from years of Arrow tailoring know-how. Confortable Sanforized cotton Oxford cloth comes in this falls leading solid shirt colors. $5.00.
-ARROWFOUNDED 1981
diligi ntty iAe ffltteifir (jljah'fim Ubatitiy
lc,s.B PhcvZ.cCuhCB 0gC cCCgM sCgv.luB w
Nationally-known Clothing and Furnishings.
Featuring Ivjr League Fashions
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP j
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-52*9 OAKLAND | 
Open Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Tilt ):N F.M.
60 million times a day people get that refreshing new feeling with ice-cold Coca-Cola!
QUAKER STAT* COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COMPANTottied under utfiontj of IN Coca-Cola Conpaajr by Pittsburgh. Penasyiv*

---------------------------------------------------

IN THE NEW NON SLIP FLASK
is this the only reason for 
using Mennen Skin Bracer?
Skin Bracers rugged, long-lasting aroma is an ob
vious attribute. But is it everything?
After all, Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the after-shave 
lotion that cools rather than bums. It helps heal 
shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. 
Conditions your skin.
Arent these sound, scientific virtues more important 
than the purely emotional effect Skin Bracer has on 
women In that case, buy a bottle. And have fun.
HJIH jv* fc C N e 
fwl skin bracer
 I ' "iP A ** * -fc  < ho ht e h l
Page <  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 5, 1962
PEGOEIR MIUTE klHSTbOJ
Press Writer Irks 
Indian Student
(continued from page 5) 
du is basically a clerk with a 
clerks fascination for paper work 
for paper works own sake. The 
average garden variety, GI type 
Indian is hopeless. These are 
typical Ruark-type writing. This 
is a remark made on 450 million 
people by a single Mr. Ruark 
based on his few days tour of 
India. Mr. Ruark unfortunately is 
a Scripps-Howard writer.
If he meant it as a joke, I pity 
his sense of humor. If this is the 
way to bring international un
derstanding, I sympathise with 
many Americans who are also 
working towards the same goal. 
There are a few Ruarks in this 
field who will do more good by 
not writing anything at all.
I would like to ask the editors 
of these newspapers and maga
zines whether these kind of 
articles serve any purpose to any
one except creating bad feelings.
I think it is the responsibility 
of the young generation not to en
courage such people in future at 
least. v
Yours sincerely,
R. Muthukrishnan 
Graduate Student 
Dept, of Physics
Fraternity: Sorority- The Other Side
Dr. Morgan Addresses Pledges 
Urges Students To Define Goals
Shortly before Thanksgiving re
cess, Dr. Robert Morgan, head of 
Techs Bureau of Measurement 
and Guidance, spoke about study 
habits to the Sigma Nu pledge 
class.
Dr. Morgan began by stressing 
the necessity for the student to 
review his real goals. In todays 
world, the excitement, piestige 
and money that go with engineer
ing and science draw many people 
who are not suited to i. life-time 
career in these fields. Therefore, 
in examining their goals, students 
should weigh the advantages of 
this type of career against Car
negie Techs requirements to 
achieve a degree in engineering or 
science.
The effective use of time was 
another one of Dr. Morgans main 
points. He spoke of the countless 
hours that are wasted because of 
the failure to use patches of free 
time. The failure to adopt effec
tive study habits is another major 
cause of time-wasting. It was sug
gested that the best way to 
achieve maximum use of time was 
to plan the day in advance.
Dr. Morgans final point brought 
out the need for the student to 
adopt an active rather than pas
sive attitude towards learning. It 
is the students responsibility to 
learn; the instructor can only mo
tivate and point the way. Once 
the student accepts this, he will 
gain much from Carnegie Tech.
Womens Club 
Meets Today
The Womens Club of Carnegie 
Tech will meet for tea at 1:00 
p.m. on Wednesday, December 5, 
in the Highlander Room of Skibo, 
Following tea, Mr. Richard B. 
Beamanfi associate professor in 
the department of painting, de
sign and sculpture, will speak on 
The Lost ArtSo Called. Mr. 
Beaman is also president of the 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art. Mrs. 
Norman L. Rice is chairman of 
the program.
The chairman of hostesses for 
the tea is Mrs. Charles W. Prine, 
who will be assisted by Mrs. 
Frank M. Keck, Mrs. J. Fletcher 
Osterle, Miss Louise Parks, Mrs. 
James Robertson, Mrs. John T. 
Schriempf, Mrs. Richard D. 
Strathmeyer, Mrs. B. Richard 
Teare, Jr., and Mrs. Marian K. 
Wilson.
Mrs. Edward R. Schatz will 
entertain the Newcomers group of 
the club and their husbands at a 
Christmas Open House on Sun
day afternoon, December 9, in her 
home, 4752 Bayard Street. Mrs. 
Schatz is sponsor of the New
comers group.
Steinberg Says 
Study Hardery
As part of its scholarship pro
gram this year, Pan Hel spon
sored a lecture by Dr. Erwin R. 
Steinberg, Dean of M.M.C.C. 
Members from all seven sorori
ties on campusactives and 
j pledgesattended the lecture.
Stating that a girl is more 
subject to social pressures than 
a boy, Dean Steinberg attempted 
to prove, by various examples 
and comparisons, that sororities 
tend to "institutionalize the so
cial aspect of feminine behavior 
that makes them poorer students.
Throughout his speech, Dean 
Steinberg stressed the need for 
sororities to work with the ad
ministration to subdue this ten
dency in order to further the 
scholastic goals of the school.
Summer Jobs 
In Europe
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 
Nov. 7, 1962  Would you like 
to work next summer as a campWRCT, WPGH Run , counselor in the Paris area, at a
Joint Broadcasts
Radio Stations WRCT at Tech 
and WPGH at the University of 
Pittsburgh have acheived a first 
in college broadcasting by jointly 
presenting news coverage and 
music. Both stations can now give 
more complete news coverage to 
students of the two universities at 
the same time.
John Singel, program director 
of WRCT, and Jay Levin, of 
WPGH, disc jockeyed the first 
simulcast program. The broad
casting techniques have been im
proved and the exchange of pro
grams is scheduled to continue 
during the entire school year.
At 9:00 and 11:00 p.m. every 
night, the two radio stations 
jointly present news coverage and 
music.
Douglas Pope, assistant general 
manager of WRCT, and Dan 
Johnson, general manager of the 
station at Pitt, planned this joint 
venture.
John Singel is a junior in the 
physics department at Carnegie 
Tech.
Douglas Pope is a sophomore in 
the drama department at Carnegie 
Tech.
construction site on the Spanish 
Riviera, in a Swiss resort high in 
the Alps, in a factory in Germany, 
or on a Norwegian farm? Many 
other jobs are available.
The American Student Infor
mation Service, celebrating its 6th 
Anniversary, announces thous
ands of paying summer jobs in 
Europe (some offering $190 
monthly) are available to US 
! college students. ASIS arranges 
your job and living accommoda! tions before you leave home.
TRAVEL GRANTS are being 
awarded to the first 200 appli. cants.
For a 20-page Prospectus with 
i the complete selection of sum! mer jobs in Europe and a Job 
' Application form wrote: Dept. E, 
ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Lux
embourg City, Grand Duchy of 
i Luxembourg. Enclose $1 for the 
| prospectus, handling, and air mail 
j reply. The first 8000 inquiries re
ceive a $1 coupon towards the 
purchase of the new student
travel book Earn, Learn and 
Travel in Europe.
JuneHelmers Plays 
In Tech?s 66Othello
June Helmers, senior acting 
major in the Drama department 
opened last Thursday night as 
Desdemona in Techs production 
of Shakespeares Othello. Last 
year June had starring roles in 
two Tech shows, Summer of the 
Seventeenth Doll and Our Bet
ters. She has also appeared at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, notably 
in the leading role of Leave It to 
Jane. A Tri-Delt, June makes 
time in her hectic schedule to help 
out with sorority skits and songs. 
Equally talented scholastically, 
she is also a member of Mortar 
Board.
Pledge Prexies 
Form Council
The Council of Pledge Presi
dents is, as its name implies, a 
group made up of the twelve 
pledge class presidents. It is not 
a Jr. CFP nor is it meant in 
any sense to imitate the Coun
cil of Fraternity Presidents.
The CPP group meets weekly 
witn a threefold purpose. First, 
it is to provide the pladge class 
presidents with a thorough un
derstanding of the whole frater
nity system. Secondly, it is 
hoped that by these discussions, 
future fraternity leaders will be 
better able to shape the policies 
of their own individual frater
nity. And third, the council pro
vides a chance for interfraternity 
understanding and friendship.
The council has met four times 
since its inception. In the first 
three meetings, it discussed goals, 
the administrations statement of 
fraternity policy and parliroentary procedure. At the third meet
ing, officers were elected. They 
are: President, Bob Fritz; VicePresident, Leroy Gunner.
Dean Swank was present at 
the fourth meeting to lead a dis
cussion on pledge training.
Interest is high and the plans 
for the remaining CPP meetings 
indicate that it will be main
tained.
The Council of Pledge Presi
dents should prove to be of in
creasing value in the coming 
years as these men move into 
positions of leadership in their 
fraternities. It is a group of 
young men looking to the coming 
years with interest and concern
EE Students 
Take Honors I
Two Electrical Engineering 
Students from Tech were pre
sented with awards honoring 
them as Outstanding Electrical 
Engineering Students of the v J 
Year at the annual initiation 
banquet of the Pittsburgh Chap
ter of Eta Kappa Nu fraternity. j
A first place award went to 
Charles Koman, second place to 
Paul Pheneger.
Eta Kappa Nu also presented 
Tech with a plaque bearing the 
names of this years leading stu
dents. The awards were present- nl 
ed at the Initiation Banquet held 
on November 20 at Pitts Schenley Hall in Oakland.
Workshop Stresses 
Lib. Arts Careers
A Careers for Liberal Arts 
Conference, open to all under- ^  
graduate students in any field, v I 
will be held in the Pitt Student 
Union Ballroom on Thursday and 
Friday, December 6 and 7. It will 
feature certain areas sometimes 
referred to as glamour careers.
Representatives from the radio 
and television industries,, the 
president of the American Asso
ciation of Industrial Editors, and vf I 
an investment Banker will dis
cuss their fields and point out 
special opportunities for women 
in these areas. I.B.M., the 
Bell Telephone Company, the 
Y.M.C.A., and the Air Force will 
also be represented. Well-quali
fied government personnel will 
be present to answer questions 
concerning requirements for gov- $ I 
ernment jobs. Any interested 
students are welcome to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 5, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pase ?
Music Dept. 
Lists Series
The department of music, of 
Carnegie Tech, has announced 
plans for the 1962-63 Carnegie 
Concert Series.
The series consists of eight re'citals by faculty members and 
guest artists and began on Wed
nesday, November 28, with a Son
ata Recital by George Grossman, 
viola, as associate professor of 
music, and Nelson Whitaker, 
piano, an associate professor on 
the music faculty. The remaining 
recitals in the series will be pre
sented monthly through May, 
1963.
Mr. Grossman, a native of 
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, 
studied at the College of Music, 
Boston University, the Juilliard 
Institute of Musical Art, and priv
ately with Jaques Hoffman and 
Sascha Jacobson in New York. He 
has performed with the Rich
mond, Chautauqua, Baltimore, 
and New York City Center Sym
phonies and has been associated 
with a number of distinguished 
chamber groups. Mr. Grossman 
has also given solo recitals in Car 
negie Recital Hall in New York 
City among others.
An interesting sidelight to his 
career is that he has played with 
many of the big name bands 
including Gene Krupa, Tommy 
Dorsey, Tex Benecke, Artie Shaw, 
and Vaughn Monroe. Mr. Gross
man has served on the faculties 
1 at the Third Street Music School 
and the Brooklyn Music School, 
among others, and has been a staff 
member of the Bennington Com
posers Conference and Chamber 
Music Center.'
Mr. Whitaker has been at Car
negie Tech since 1948. He receiv
ed his B.A. degree from the Uni
versity of California and his 
M.F.A. from Carnegie Tech. In 
addition, he has also received a 
v Diplome dEtudes Conservatoire 
National de Paris.
T his Week in Pittsburgh
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6
Film Arts  The Colt (Russia, 1959) and White 
Mane (France, 1954), winner of Grand Prix at 
Cannes. Shown at Porter Hall, Room 100 at 4:30,7:00, and 9:30 p.m.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 and SATURDAY DEC. 8
The Pittsburgh Savoyards, Inc., will present Gilbert 
and Sullivans HMS Pinafore in Antonian Hall, 
Mount Mercy College, at 8:30 p.m.
Wheres Charlie at the Central Catholic High 
School. Directed by Joe Leonardo and Dinah 
Mathias, Tech Students.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Drama DepartmentShakespeares Othello, Fine Arts 
Little Theater, Nov. 29  Dec. 11.
Music Department  On Thursday, December 13, at 
12:30 p.m. Dr. William Steinberg, music director of 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, will speak at 
the Music Department Convocation to be held in the 
Little Theater, Fine Art Building. Dr. Steinberg 
will answer previously submitted questions relating 
to the field of music. Students and faculty are 
invited to attend.
Painting and Design-Exhibit of Drawings by Peter 
Jenkyn, assistant professor, department of painting,
Program Opens 
For Latv Students
A special program for students 
planning to enter law school will 
be held on Thursday, Dec. 27, at 
Western Reserve University in 
0 Cleveland.
Starting at 1:30 p.m. in the 
moot courtroom of WRUs School 
of Law, the colloquium will in
clude a discussion of the neces
sary qualifications for the study 
of law and the various oppor
tunities in the practice of law.
The program is free and open 
to all students. For additional in
formation write to Pre-law Colloquium, Room 3, 2040 Adelbert 
Road, Cleveland 6, -Ohio.
ADVANCE
ANNOUNCEMENT
TO ALL TECH STUDENTS
IN PERSONcrefer, aul 
an cJary
EXCLUSIVELY ON  Warner Brothers Records
Memorial Hall
Wed., Jan. 16 - 8:30
Prices: $2.50 - $3.50 - $4.50
Prior to public sale, tickets are 
now available at Hornes. For 
mail orders write Shows, Inc., 
Bex &32, Pitts. 3.
design, and sculpture. Hewlett Gallery, CFA, 9 a.m,- 
5 p.m. Weekdays. 9 a.m.-noon Sat. December 3-21. 
Exhibit of second year design students on the third 
floor of Fine Arts. Student paintings are on exhibit 
in Scaife Hall.
Graphic Arts Department - Student designs and 
paintings are on exhibit on the third floor of Admin
istration Hall.
Skibo LobbyPhotographs of Moscow by Joseph 
Singer of the Bureau of Mines will be exhibited 
until Christmas.
Carnegie InstituteExhibition of brass sculpture 
by Kent Bloomer. Gallery K 
Carnegie InstituteThe Ideal Theatre. Designs and 
Models resulting from the Ford Foundation Program 
for Theatre Design. Second floor 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Mon.Sat; 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Tues.; 2-5 p.m. Sun. 
Playhouse Wholl Save the Plowboy, Theatre 
Upstairs; Write Me a Murder, Hamlet Street 
Theatre; performances Tues. Sat., 8:30; Sun. 7:30. 
GuildPhaedra Melina Mercouri, Anthony Perkins 
Squirrel HillDivorce Italian Style
StanleyBoccaccio 70 Anita Ekberg, Sophia Loren 
FultonManchurian Canidate Frank Sinatra, Janet 
Leigh.
0gC Fo^F ulFb^ CcuSr^i trmF o o o tuF
SOMETHING DIFFERENT . . . EXOTIC like Handscrafted Jewelry 
Kimonis  Happicoats  Chinaware  Figurines  Party Favors 
Lanterns  Art Supplies  Fortune Cookies Incense  Novelties
10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTSBUDDHA GIFT SHOP
109 Meyran Ave., Between Forbes and Fifth in Oakland
Boys night out?  Girls night out?
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
SERVING THE BEST. OPEN 24 HRS.
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty) MU. 2-9318
Get LuckyPlay "Crazy Questions
/ P /* r A > r* A It I I k A A L "T k A AM jl AA 
50 CASH AWARDS A MONTH. ENTER NOW. HERES HOW:
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and youve done a 
"Crazy Question. It's the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below, then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. Winning entries sub
mitted on the inside of a Lucky Strike wrapper will get a 
$25.00 bonus. Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
Based on the hilarious book "The Question Man/'f
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to */}), clarity and freshness (up to 14) and appropriateness (up 
to %) and their decisions will be final. Duplicate prizes wifi be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the entrant's own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month, October through April. Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that months awards. Any entry received after April 
30, 1963, will not be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners will be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulat'ons.
I THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:
*n *WS uAeM *e|nviea Xq peniujqns
spjeM^oeq quioo 
lisds noX op ,gP $zKYUBDUY1 DPU
cpaioj. JO 'n atoPrpo uX|uew Xq pdUjuiqns
apeui ipiMpues 
P003 X||eaj e S| hot elIMSuAC 3HiI
The Red pony
*fl ssnocjXs 'epqejo uqof Xq pauiuiqng
X.ijBABO s,eu{qo isiuniuuioQ jo 
euoq>joeq am sj jeqM :NOIiS3D 3HI
uPh czBMhC$
I4
L
O UMOjg 'ssjtSnd sofjeqo Xq pswjuiqng
Xep ||e oippeqi e uo Suuq* 
uiojf *a3 noX op )eqM NOIISBO 3 PU
uPh czBMhC$I-------------------------r uPh czBMhC$
IStudy Hall I
eiujojueo ;o n ermorol oftiosg Xq psujiuqns
Xpnis pa-UIV MCI paieotpap 
SBM Suipimq qojqM :NOIIS3n 3H1
texsj. jo -fj mtujs l*eo X<t P*U!KS 
}9 sajeiid
<qeq op jspun|d ie4M :N0US3fl 3 HI
THE ANSWER IS:Gel Lucky
Hie taste to start with.. .the taste to stay nth
THE QUESTION IS: WHATS A PLEASANT, MEMORABLE WAY TO URGE SMOK
ERS TO BUY LUCKY STRIKE CIGARETTES? When you Get Lucky, you get the 
famous, fine-tobacco taste thats easy to stick with. You get the great taste 
that explains why Lucky smokers stay Lucky smokers. Got it? Then go, go, go.
Go out and Get Lucky.
cTWUnNO WY Jo&xxee is our middtt nam*

---------------------------------------------------

Paff t  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. Deember 5, IW
Assignment: make our cars more rust resistant
than ever before
Bintzer Tells 
Diffei enee In 
Person, Group
On Friday. November 16. Mr. H. 
Russel Bintzner, Carnegie Techs 
vice president in charge of de
velopment, was Sigma Nus din
ner guest and speaker.
Central to the vice-presidents 
message was the paradox of to
day's apparent difference between 
social or group morals and per
sonal honor and integrity. The 
trend. Mr. Bintzer indicated, is a 
something-for-n o t h i n g attitude 
with which persons rely on the 
weight of the group to net free 
benefits. If this group influence 
cannot deliver a desired benefit, 
cheating is a common result. Here 
Mr. Bintzer pointed out that the 
real damage is to the offenders 
own personal honor and integrity, 
a loss far dearer than any inci
dental material gains.
It is thus the difficult task of 
every individual to preserve and 
strengthen his personal code of 
right and wrong if such a trend is 
to be halted. It is often easier to 
follow the groups will, right or 
wrong; but if one is to retain his 
honor and self-respect, he cannot 
allow the means for easy and im
mediate gains to violate the high
est of laws, the dictates of person
al conscience.
Former Exchange Student Is 
Now Soviet Deputy Minister
by Marty Sauer
The Soviet Deputy Foreign 
Minister, Vasili V. Kuznetsov, who 
is now the Russian negotiator for 
removal of missiles from Cuba 
was an exchange student at Car
negie Tech thirty years ago. -
Kuznetsov, with three other 
Russian exchange students, came 
to Carnegie Tech in February, 
1932. At 31, he was already a 
graduate of the Moscow Institute 
of Steel and had worked for four 
years in Russia and a short while 
at the Ford Motor Co. in Detroit. 
While at Carnegie Tech he studied 
under Dr. Vsevold Krivobok, an 
authority on stainless steel. Kuz
netsov was able to complete four 
semesters work in three and re
ceived his Masters degree in 
metallurgy in June, 1933. In 1941 
he won the Stalin Prize for his 
work in stainless steel.
Kuznetsov returned to Russia 
shortly after leaving Carnegie 
Tech. He worked in the industrial 
system there and specialized in 
labo*- movement. Following World 
War II he was a leader in the or
ganization of the World Federa
tion of Trade Unions. He was a 
delegate to the United Nations 
Founding Conference in San Fran
cisco and later became Russian
ambassador to Red China. Fol
lowing the death of Andrei V. 
Vishinsky in 1955, Kuznetsov be
came first deputy foreign minister 
and is now negotiating in Cuba.
YMCA Announces 
Seminar Plans
There are still openings in the 
New York City Seminaf planned 
by the YMCA and YWCA for the 
period between semesters, Janu
ary 29 to February 1, 1963 Regis
trations must be in by December 
6th since theater tickets must be 
purchased well in advance. The 
Seminar will include a visit to the 
United Nations seeing Man for 
All Seasons, one of Broadways 
outstanding plays, the musical 
No Strings with music by 
Richard Rodgers, and a Metro
politan Opera; as well as some 
study of juvenile delinquency in 
the city, interview with staff of 
the N.Y. Housing Authority, a 
look at Greenwich Village hear
ing about some of the special and 
interesting programs there. The 
cost of $15 will include tickets for 
the play, musical and opera, the 
UN tour, and one dinner in a na
tionality restaurant.
Remember T o Schedule 
Thistle Pictures Now
The Organizations Editor of 
the 1962 Thistle reports that the 
following organizations have not 
scheduled their pictures for the 
1962 Thistle. AIA, AIEE, AIGA, 
ASSE, ASME, American Institute 
of Chemical Engineering, Amer
ican Institute oi Physics, Baptist 
Student Movement, Christian Sci
ence Organization, Clio, Delta 
Skull, Eta Kappa Nu, Film Arts 
Society, IRE, Lutheran Students 
Association, Methodist Campus 
Ministry, Mortar Board, Music 
Department Student Congress, 
Omicron, Mortar Board, Music 
Department Student Congress, 
Omicron Nu, Panal of Americans, 
Phi Kappa Phi, Phi Mu Alpha 
Sinfonia, Physics Club, SAE, 
Scimitars, Sigma Alpha Iota, So
ciety of American Military En
gineers, Society of Women En
gineers, Tech Activities Club, 
Tech Christian Fellowship, and 
WRCT.
If your organization has not 
scheduled its picture, make sure 
that it does by December 10. If the 
picture has not been scheduled by 
this date, the organization will not 
receive representation in the 
yearbook. Submit on a piece of 
paper two dates when it would be 
convenient for the picture to be 
taken. Include the date before 
Dec. 20, if possible, the place, and 
the time. Also give the name, ad
dress, and telephone number of 
a person who may be contacted 
if the need arises. If there are any 
questions or conflicts, contact Ann 
Carten, 4D7 Morewood Gardens, 
Mu2-8897.
????????????????????????????????????????????????? TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
e$ s^rFret ulcubF 2^b2ubC
185 Bouquet St. (Near^ Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
?????????????????????????????????????????????????
Profs Discuss 
Soviet Russia
Under the direction of the Stu
dent Congress Union Committee, 
Dr. Salgaller, Mr. Zeller, and Mr. 
Eleo will discuss social and eco
nomic conditions and intellectual 
atmosphere in modern-day Russia 
Wednesday, December 12. at 8:00 
p.m. in Wherett Room of Skibo.
Di. Salgaller, associate profes
sor of Modern Languages, was 
born in Russia although he has 
spent the last 40 years in the 
United States. A student of Soviet 
by association, Dr. Salgaller visit
ed Russia in the summer of 1960. 
During his stay he travelled from j 
Moscow to the Ukraine to Causa- ' 
sus and then to Soviet Central 
Asia. He will discuss the condi
tions he found in these areas.
Mr. Zeller, an instructor in the 
EE Department and a native 
Frenchman visited the Soviet in 
April, 1961. He traveled from East 
Germany to Poland, then to Mos
cow. He will comment on these 
areas.
Another EE instructor, Mr. Eleo, 
who visited Russia in the summer 
of 1962, will concentrate on the 
conditions existing in Moscow and 
Leningrad.
Color slides of the places dis
cussed will be shown. A question 
and answer session and coffee 
hour will follow the program.
Kanrieli Receives 
Profession Honor
Dorothy M. Kanrich, assistant 
professor of physical education in 
the Division of Humanities and 
Social Sciences and head of wo
men's intramural in the Division 
of Student Affairs at Tech, will 
receive a professional honor 
award at the Pennsylvania State 
Association for Health, Physical 
Education, and Recreation Con
ference on Dec. 7, 1962. in Allen
town. This award represents the 
professions recognition of out
standing service.
Miss Kanrich received her B.A. 
degree from Radcliffe College and 
her M.Litt. degree from the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh. She joined 
the Carnegie Tech faculty in 1930.
CERAYT$ -D 0HIOyaAUYT ^GIR GIE * 
aETTEI WIHTE^TEO GmGUSRT IART
To tackle this assignment, Ford Motor Company 
engineers turned to zinc. Galvanized, or zinc-clad, 
steel has long been noted for its resistance to corro
sion. It presented special problems which had limited 
its use in automotive applications, however. It was 
hard to weld, difficult to paint.
Our engineers developed special techniques#to solve 
the welding problem. They found a process which 
eliminates the crystalline pattern on galvanized steel 
and produces a surface that will accept a high-quality 
paint job.
Now zinc can be married to steel and used for vital 
underbody parts and rocker panels of Ford-built cars. 
The zinc coating forms a tough barrier to corrosive 
moistureand if corrosion attacks, the zinc sacrifices 
itself through galvanic action, saving the steel.
Other avenues explored in the fight against rust also 
brought results: special zinc-rich primers to protect 
key body areas, aluminized and stainless steels to 
extend muffler life, quality baked-enamel finishes that 
are more durable (and look better).
Another step forward in total qualityand another 
example of how Ford Motor Company provides engi
neering leadership for the American Road.
Salt-water bath is one of tests 
used to check rust protection 
built into Ford-built cars.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS fOA THI AMCR4CAN ROAD  TH MOM 
THC FARM  IROOSTR*  ARO THI Af Of SPACH

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 5, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 9
Carol Yogel Promotes 
a. Library Careers
One half of Pennsylvanias new | 
,ving sales team for the pro- | 
motion of library careers went on | 
tour this week in the western 
end of the state.
Her job: to encourage young 
and middle-aged college gradu
ates of both sexes to enter one 
of the most understaffed profes
sions in the country.
The new traveling saleslady is 
26-year-old Carol Vogel, career 
consultant at the Pitt Graduate 
Library School. Her post as re
cruiter for the library profession 
was created last year by the 
Pennsylvania Legislature. Miss 
Vogel will visit 34 western Penn
sylvania communities this win
ter, speaking at- college campuses, 
PTA meetings, public libraries, 
and wherever else she can find 
the combination of a room, a 
group of college students or grad
uates, and a live interest in parlaying a degree into a well-paid 
career. A library career requires 
a year of graduate study for the 
Master of Library Science de
gree. 
Miss Vogels territory extends 
west from Carlisle and Chambersburg. She is scheduled to 
visit Tech this winter. Touring 
the eastern half of the state will 
be her counterpart at Philadel
phia's Drexel Institute  Donald 
Hunt. Drexel and Pitt operate 
the States two fully-accredited 
graduate schools of library sci
ence.
Miss Vogel looks at her sales 
job this way: The first thing we 
have to do is break down the 
stereotype of the librarian as a 
lonely maiden confined to stamp
ing books and seldom speaking 
above a whisper. Actually, library 
c^work is creative and very satis
fying, and its full of opportunities 
for anybody who has an active 
curiosity and iike working with 
people. Men are discovering this 
too. I think stereotype is begin
ning to go.
Her sales pitch will come from 
the heart: a librarian herself,
Miss Vogel has worked in the art 
and technology sections of Pitts
burghs Carnegie Library, in Pitts 
PFalk Library of the Health Pro
fessions, and in the St. Margaret 
Memorial Hospital Library. She 
is a graduate of Chatham College 
and the Carnegie Library School.
Included in her sales ammuni
tion will be the following points:
1. Some 18,000 library posts in 
the country still go begging for 
want of qualified personnel, and 
half of Pennsylvanias librarian 
jobs are either vacant or are
^ filled by people without professnonal training.
2. Ten years ago, starting sal
aries were $3,000; today they
Hunt Library, Administration Enumerates 
New Regulations, Infractions, Discipline
have risen to the $5,000-$5,500 
range and to $6,500 in special 
libraries requiring a background 
in science, music, medicine and 
other fields. Top administrative 
posts in large library systems pay 
as much as $20,000.
3. Library science graduates 
usually get 12 to 15 job offers 
when they leave graduate school. 
There are many opportunities 
overseas as well as in the United 
States.
4. Salaried State - traineeships 
and work-study plans can help 
remove the financial burden of an 
additional year of university edu
cation.
Miss Vigel points out that book 
circulation in the United States 
has jumped in three years from 
700 million to a billion. Special 
libraries, such as those operated 
by corporations, have grown in 
number from 1600 in 1947 to 
10,000 today.
There is no end in sight, she 
believes, to the demand for pro
fessional librarians.
Library Regulations
The following library regula
tions have been established by the 
Student Library Committee and 
confirmed by Student Congress, 
with the apprival of the school 
and library administrations:
I. General Regulation Governing 
Library
A. The Library is to be used 
only for quiet study with the 
exception of the study rooms, 
which are limited to group 
studying.
B. The reserve room is to be 
used for work on reserve 
material only. Reserve ma
terial is not to be removed 
from this room unless signed 
out for home use.
C. Students are required to 
produce their I. D. cards upon 
the request of any member of 
the library staff.
D. Any accidental loss or 
damage of library materials 
should be reported immedi
ately.
II. Major Infraction of Rules con
sists of:
A. Deliberate mutilation
or destruction of library 
property.
B. Removal of library circula
tion material from library 
without checking it out.
C. Removal of any other li
brary property without, per
mission.
D. Creation of any serious 
disturbances in the library.
E. Refusal to co-operate with 
the requests of the library 
staff.
III. Minor Offenses
A. Consumption of food or 
beverages in any part of li
brary.
B. Excessive talking.
C. Removal of more than one 
reserve book per course per 
evening from library by de
vious means.
IV. Discipline
Cases involving major in
fractions shall be referred for 
disciplinary action through 
the proper channels. The Stu
dent Library Committee 
shall be informed of any 
cases in which the name of 
students are referred for dis
ciplinary actions.
In the case of continued of
fenses the Library Committee 
shall be given the names of 
any such offenders for coun
seling. If the student contin
ues to violate library regula
tions, he should be referred 
for suitable disciplinary ac
tion.
APPROVED by the Administra
tors and The Student Library 
Committee of Student Congress.
All persons, living on campus, who are interested in working on the business staff of
THE
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
in a position of responsi
bility and who can devote 
1-2 hours per WEEK, 
please call MU. 2-4557 
and leave name and tele
phone number and the 
times you can be reached.
uPh jh22 uh2hsPgzh 
Bc2.uh$ hv ,.22huu
Ed MulJett (B.S.E.E/, 1956; M.S.E.E., 1962) is Project 
Engineer with the New England Telephone Company in 
Boston. Ed is assigned to the State Area Radio Transmis
sion Group which planned and designed the Companys first 
major microwave system to be used for message service.
On another project, he made design and cost studies for 
the first educational television system in New England.
lg,sczrhB
Ed's career has presented many unusual engineering 
challenges and rewards and a chance to get his Master s 
Degree at company expense.
Ed Mullett and other young engineers like him in Bell 
Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring 
the finest communications service in the world to the homes 
and businesses of a growing America.
BEIL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
rrn^
yshpyd by yldStwmoy
gc2czv
Starting Today, Deo. 6 
Thurs., Fri., Sat.
Franchot Tone, Lew AyrescvXrBh czv 
lgzBhzu
also
Shirley MacLaine 
Yves Montand 
in color,V :hrBPc
Starting Sun. I), t 
Mon., and Tuts.
VIM.AGE OF THE 
DAMNED 
HOMICIDAL 
TERROR FROM 
BEYOND SPACE
,.o Dy-6

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 10  'RNEGI TARTN  Wednesday. Decomber 5, 1962
Engineers & Scientists
Discuss Current Openings 
with RAYTHEON
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
vhlh,jhC *Do *-6
See your placement director now to 
arrange an interview with the Raytheon representative.
Raytheon offers challenging assignments for BS and MS candidates in EE, ME, Mathematics and Physics. Openings are in the areas of:
RA0AR, INFRARED, MISSILE ft SPACE SYSTEMS, COMMUNICATIONS & DATA PROCESSING, 
SOLID STATE, SONAR, ELECTRON TUBE ft COMPONENTS TECHNOLOGY, 
MICROWAVE ELECTRONICS, MANUFACTURING ft FIELD SERVICE ENGINEERING
Facilities are located in New England, California 
and Tennessee. If an interview is not convenient on 
above date, forward your resume lo Mr. G. W. Lewis,
Manager of College Relations, Raytheon Company,
Lexington 73, Massachusetts.
ho IMS uAACanSdine IDACera
-ff /y>A /U7/Z_70/V
lIEGTHI HF TNE MHIYOR 0UIRT hYE^TIU^ MGT^N
THE HAMSTER'S BUILT-IN "CON
TINUOUS CLOCK... enables him to maintain his daily activities of eating and sleeping without the usual stimuli of light and darkness. He lives on exactly the same schedule even in total darkness.
8HNS jGInHdRnU OIU5ER aETdEES CHS MUYYGIO GSO 
uEIIp ,GYYHp TH ^NGYn AW TdH FHI uE^No
IT TAKES TIME TO MAKE 
TIME. Hamiltons ex
tremely precise version 
of a timepiece takes 
from 6 to 9 months to 
produce. Half of the 
more than 2000 produc
tion steps are quality 
inspections which as
sure Hamilton accuracy.
Are you a person who likes to stand out? A Hamilton is both attractive and distinctive, a touch of excellent taste that you can wear every hour of a lifetime. They start as low as $35. Ask your favorite gift-giver. Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.
zHd pHA REE UT3 SHd pHA OHSbTo cUIaHISE CGp
hote lIMo hoIS Ito uACoa
ing and scoring by Jules Borkowski, with 6 rebounds and 21 
points. Getting most of his points 
by driving toward the hoop, Borkowski either got the layup or
was fouled in the act of shooting. 
Outstanding on defense was Joe 
the Cobra Laird, the man Coach 
Mel Cratsley undoubtedly "will 
(continued on page 11)
ndo ioIdDr ksoDoNw OR/-H
Superior height and firepower 
took its toll last Saturday night as 
the Duquesne Dukes rolled over 
the Tech Tartans, 78-53, in the 
initial basketball game of the sea
son for both teams. The peagreen Dukes, playing most of the 
game with three boys from last 
years freshman team and two 
others that saw only limited ac
tion last year, sputtered and stut
tered in the first half, but finally 
found their shooting eye in the 
Second to win easily.
It was Techs inability to control
either the offensive or defensive 
boards that proved to be their 
downfall. The Dukes outrebounded the Tartans, 46-31, thus par
tially explaining why the Dukes 
got 29 more field goal attempts 
than did Tech.
Tight Game 
For the first 20 minutes, it was 
a good, close game with Tech 
playing a relatively error fr6e, 
close to the best game. Utilizing a 
sagging zone defense, the Tartans 
forced the Dukes to take their 
shots from outside. When the
Bluffites failed to connect, Tech 
was able to work the ball in and 
score often enough to make the 
score 29-28 at halftime.
It was a different story in the 
second half as the Dukes sopho
mores led the way to a 52% 
shooting percentage. Dennis Cuff, 
Willie Ross and Ron Willard 
tallied 34 points in the second 
half as the Dukes enjoyed a 49-25 
second stanza bulge.
Borkowski Stars 
Tech was led in both reboundthe fourth dimension: TIME
... still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, 
an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculationand surprise.
SEPT. 5, 1752, NEVER HAPPENED!... Nor did any date from Sept. 3 to 13, at least in England and the American Colonies. Why? The King decreed that these days would be skipped to correct a discrepancy between the Old English calendar and the newly adopted Gregorian calendar. This* left puzzled Englishmen and colonists with one 19-day month and a 355-day year.

---------------------------------------------------

Wdned9, Dumber 5, 1**  CARNBOIt TARTAN  Fa* 1
1st Half Sparks Hopes 
For Successful Season
(continued from page 10) 
} count on to steady the team in a 
tight game.
The first half was a battle of 
the nort-shooters. Duquesne hit 
only 40% of their shots but were 
still ahead at the half because 
Tech hit only 33%. Tech went 
ahead once at 3-2 on Borkowskis 
foul shot, and tied it at 7-7 on 
George Fraziers swisher from 
^ long range, but couldn't cope with 
Cegalis and his tips under the 
boards.
Tech Comeback
Down 20-12, Tech made a 
comeback of sorts. Goals tty Ray 
Morrison, Borkowski and Sam 
Cupps, interrupted by a Duke foul 
shot, brought them to 21-18. 
Again the lack of height hurt, and 
Tech couldnt take the lead de
spite fine shooting by Borkowski 
and Morrison because the Dukes 
were getting too many birdies 
from the six inch range.
At halftime, the scrappy Tech 
team was down only one point. 
Lack of the expected mechanical 
mistakes gave the Dukes cause to 
worry about the pushover team 
they had expected to meet, and 
Coach Red Manning of the Dukes 
was not too happy as he left the 
floor at the halftime mark.
Iron Five Wilts
Duquesne came back in the sec
ond half with a pressing man for 
man defense and still Tech didn't 
give up the ball on mechanical 
errors. However, Duquesne found 
a few more holes in the Iron 
Five than they had in the first 
half and began to score almost at 
will.
With Techs best rebounder, 
George McGeary, gathering splin
ters on the bench, the tall men for 
Duquesne began to prove that a 
good big man is more effective 
than the good little man.
.500 ball for the season. Develop
ment of the inside men into scor
ing threats will ease the burden 
on the guards ana provide Tech 
with an allarouna offense that it 
lacked against Duauesne.
Next: Waynesburg
Techs next opponent will be 
the Waynesburg Yellow jackets, to 
be played on the Jackets floor on 
Wednesday, December 5. The first 
home game of the new season will 
find Indiana State invading the 
Tech campus on Saturday, De
cember 8. Varsity game time will 
be 8:15 p.m., with a JV game pre
ceding the varsity tilt at 6:30.
Official Game Statistics 
CARNEGIE TECH
Hftpcfpis
Werronen1133
Frazier2216
Ritchie0020
Laird2357
Borkowski69021
Morrison4119
Cupps1224
Neidra0303
Thomas0020
McGeary0010
DUQUESNE
36211753
Rosse7219
Cuff106226
Cegalis2145
Miniotas51411
Willard61413
Malloy020
Lautsch1012
Kudelko1012
Hayes010
31162278
>
UYY UT xAU^nYp aEFHIE UT LAYTUWYUER& cYWNG uGA 8HS sGInEI 
RET TH GWWYp NEEY TH TNE RH^^EI aGYY US TNE jus y cug mGLEo
1 SAE all boastSoccer Title Race Tightens
For the past few weeks, four
teen teams have been competing 
for the IM championship in soccer.
one of the least heralded yet most 
grueling sports there is. The In
ternationals, PKA Garnet, and
unbeaten records 
and have to be considered favor
ites for the title. DTD and BSR 
are also unbeaten but still have 
to be ranked behind the strong 
International as contenders in the 
Giant League.
Manning Worried
Duquesne looked good enough 
in the second half against Tech, 
but didnt compare with the team 
of last year which posted a 22-7 
record. With 10 minutes to go in 
the second half and his team 
leading by 14 points, Dukes Coach 
Manning called a time out to 
berate his team. Possibly envis
ioning a long season ahead against 
the likes of Dayton, Vilanova, and 
Bradley, Manning was obviously 
displeased with his teams per
formance.
On the other hand, Tech, while 
not looking really sharp, showed 
^ promise and the potential to play
Plan now for your
BERMUDA
College Week 
1963
bigger, busier, 
better than ever!
 Informal welcoming dance to start 
the fun.
 College Day at the Beach . . . the 
biggest beach party of the year.
 All-day cruise to historic St. 
George. Luncheon. Calypso music. 
Gombey Dancers.
 Round Robin Tennis Tournament.
 College Talent Revue.
 Fun Festival with jaz2 concert, 
choral groups, dance contests.
 Barbecue Luncheon.
 Sightseeing.
 Special Tennis Trophies.
ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
The BERMUDA
Trod Development Board 
30 FHtk Av.. N*w Y#fk 70, N.V.
Nothing else needed but you to complete this picture of filter 
smoking at its flavorful best. Enjoy yourself...light up a Winston,
PURE WHITE, ! 
MODERN FILTER :
T
plus : FILTER - BLEND up front

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 5, 1962
Volleyball Standings
SET LEAGUE 
TDP Blue 5
Trojans 5
BTP A* 3
Hustlers 2
SAE Gold 1
DTD 1
DU 0
SERVE LEAGUE 
ATO A 5
PKT 4
Dunkers !
BTP B :
BSR
Sigma Nu
TX I
SPIKE LEAGUE
SAE Purple !
Grad Eagles !
Marauders
PSI Clods ;
E. E. Grads
KS i
ATO T I
The Managers Club and the In
tramural Board have made their 
annual selection of the All-School 
Intramural Team. Those chosen 
reperesent the best twenty-one 
offensive and defensive players in 
the school.
ATO, the school champions, and 
the Grad Eagles, who tied for
YEFT TH IUmNT HRHFRnp :IGOR3 lUEILEYYG cug3 sG5YUn v.o 
uHW YEFT TH IUmNT$ jHIHFRnp uvs3 vE5HR cug3 gYRES cug
vG5E vEXHR
second place paced the balloting. 
ATO put four men on the first 
team while the Grads placed two 
on the first team and four on the 
second. John Borofsky of TDP, 
Paul Anderson of the Grad Eagles, 
and Dick Scott and Phil Hodge of 
DTD won positions on both the 
offensive and the defensive squads.
In addition to the first and sec
ond teams, the schools Most Val
uable Player was selected. This 
year, the honor went to Dave 
DeVos, the cool, accurate quar
terback of ATO who passed his 
team to the school championship. 
Phil Hodge of DTD and Mike 
Yablon of TDP tied for runnerup 
in balloting. Congratulations to 
these three and the rest of the 
football all-stars.
1st TeamOffense
QBDave DeVosATO 
HBDave OlsenATO 
HBJohn BorofskyTDP 
EFred KosofskyGrads 
EJohn PavlikDU 
CGeorge CiarmellaATO 
LineJoe BvowneBTP 
LineBob BalzerBSR 
LineJim CrottyGrad-.
BDick ScottDTD 
BPhil HodgeDTD 
BErnie PartiATO
2nd TeamOffense
QB (tie) Mike YablonTDP 
Bob MurphyGrads 
HBPaul AndersonGrads 
HBLee CollinsPKT 
ELarry LanePKT 
EDick ScottDTD 
CPaul HueyakPKT 
LineJohn BorofskyTDP 
LinePaul AndersonGrads 
LineRoger LeonardPKT 
BHowie PiferPKT 
BJoe LeesGrads 
BBill CrookstonDU
cIE pHA G HSE WGT HI G TdH WGT LGS4 XUTGYUR dUTN 
Xy( nEEWR pHAI NGUI SEGT GYY OGp dUTNHAT mIEGREo
Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis 
with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps 
your hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis with V-7 today!
sIERESTUSm G FHILUOGaYE YUSEAW GIE LELaEIR HF TNE cYYy 
B^NHHY OEFESRU5E USTEILAIGY FHHTaGYY TEGLo jHTTHL YEFT TH 
IUmNT$ jIHdSE jus3 jGY)EI jhC3 lIHTTp :IGORo uHW YEFT 
TH IUmNT$ B^HTT vuv3 PHOmE vuv3 sGITU cugo
, Hungry 
for flavor? 
I Tareytons 
I got it! '
Ttinyton
Volleyball 
Playoffs Begin
The intramural volleyball play
offs will begin this waek with 
three of last years four semi
finalists back in the playoffs. Last 
years champions, Tau Delta Phi, 
have yet to lost a game, mostly 
due to the play of Skowron and 
Berliner and the pile driving 
spikes of Yablon and Borofsky. 
ATO, last years second place 
team also sports an unblemished 
record highlighted by the play of 
McKnight, Grebos, Bertucci, and 
Blackwood. The Grad Eagles, with 
Fred Kosofsky and Jack Lees, 
SAE Purple with Bob Wright 
and Tom McLaughlin, and the 
Trojans, a surprisingly tough in
dependent team, round out the 
unbeaten squads. These five teams 
will all be in the playoffs along 
with either PKT or the Dunkers, 
both of whom have lost only one 
game so far.
"Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!'
says .IRAR (Bear Foot) Sulla, popular Coliseum bear fighter. 
We animal wrestlers fight tooth and Claudius to get to that 
first post-fight Tareyton, says Bear Foot. TVy a couple of 
pax and enjoy flavorde gustibus you never thought you'd 
get from any filter cigarette I
ACTIVATED CHARCOAL 
INNER FILTER
PURE WHITE 
OUTER FILTER
DUAL FILTER
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel1 "ng errors corrected.
GARAGE 
of small 
8841.
W ANTED for weekly storage 
;ar. Howell Jaynes, MU. 3-Tareyton
tniutk tf i/v&uxir (vryuzry  it our middle name C4.r.
