the Tartan
Vol. 68, No. 7Wednesday, October 30, 1968
Target Dale Is Set 
For New Dorms
Under pressure from the Stu
dent Senate, and on recommenda
tion of the president, the Board of 
Trustees has set a target date of 
1972 for completion of new dorm 
facilities.
No designs have as yet been 
decided upon for the new resi
dence facilities. The method of 
financing them is likewise un
certain. A long-term amortiza
ble loan has been offered as a 
means of finance, but in the event 
that is becomes impossible to build 
an adequate facility which will 
still have reasonable rentals, 
the administration shall explore 
alternate plans for financing the 
project.
The commitment to a specific 
date was made after motions for 
such a decision were brought 
forth from the Student Senate and 
the Mens Dorm Council.
Taarget TDel 
Igsr SFtoegNa 
wmFget UoFegnos
Spring Carnival 1969 will in
volve the CMU students in a my
riad of activities from May 1 
through May 4. The familiar 
events which include Sweep
stakes, booth building, fireworks, 
plank joust. Queen coronation, 
and dances will be planned to 
bring enjoyment and relaxa
tion to students.
In order to plan the week
end, a committee is formed. On 
Monday, Nov. 4, at 7:30 p.m. in 
the Wherret Room of Skibo, 
foundations for Spring Carni
val committee will be laid. Peo
ple are needed to help plan and co
ordinate this last and biggest all
campus week-end.
This purpose of the meeting will 
be to explain the various facets 
of the weekend. There will be a 
slide presentation of last years 
carnival and discussions which 
are aimed at explaining carni
val organizations and how much 
time is required for each job. 
There will be members of past 
carnival committees present to 
answer any questions. This meet
ing is also an opportunity to sug
gest improvements and themes 
for the weekend.
Spring Carnival chairman Bill 
Benthall is accepting applica
tions for the following committee 
appointments: vice chairman and 
secretary. He is also accepting 
applications for following sub
committee chairman: Midway,
Sweepstakes, Queens. Enter
tainment, Publicity, Ticket 
Sales, Sorority Events, Call Day, 
Dance,.and Special Events (fire
works, plank joust: and picnic). 
The deadlines for applications is 
Nov. 10. Place all applications in 
the Spring Carnival mailbox in 
room 103. Skibo. d
The meeting on Nov. 4 will be 
short. If you are interested, please 
come; your help is needed. Bring 
questions and ideas: help make 
Spring Carnival 1969 a success.
Get In Touch' 
At First Micro-Lab 
In Human Relations
Get in touch at the first cam
pus-wide micro-lab in human rela
tions and sensitivity training. 
Sponsored by the College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences, 
the experiment will be conduc
ted Election Eve, November 4, 
from 7:30 to 10:00 p.m. in the Ski
bo Ballroom.
The micro-lab, an attempt to 
develop more effective inter
human relations and increased 
sensitivity and awareness, is open 
to everyone. The University Mi
cro-lab Group, including Profes
sors Lee Bolman (GSIA), Joel 
Goldstein (Psychology), Terry 
Davis (Materials Sciences), 
and Sally Madaras (Counselling 
Center), will conduct the experi
ment.
A micro-lab is basically a con
densed introduction to sensitivity 
training. It is not designed to de
velop the deep interpersonal awareness that usually comes from 
sensitivity training, but to stir an 
interest in sensivity training.
A micro-lab can be characteriz
ed as a parlor-game T-group. 
Instead of the soul-searching ses
sions, it relies on situation gam
es. A favorite situation calls 
for an individual to communi
cate something to the group 
without any words; non-verbal 
communication is stressed to pre
vent people from hiding behind a 
stream of irrevelant conversa
tion.
The Fishbowl is another situ
ation in which the group is split 
into two sections. While one sec
tion performs some task, the other 
watches, and afterwards com
ments on what it sees. Later the 
sections change roles.
If past reaction is any indica
tion, the upcoming micro-lab will 
be a stimulating experience that 
nobody should miss.
ARE YOU POWERHUNGRY!
Homecoming and Orientation 
Committees need chairmen for 
next year. Do you want to have 
these affairs in the palm of 
your hand? Write a letter indica
ting your ideas and qualifi
cations by November 8 to Ron 
Haan, 103 Skibo, and fulfill 
your lust for power!
Draft Problem/
The Pittsburgh Draft Informa
tion Center serves the commun
ity by giving unhurried, non-di
rective counseling to persons 
with a draft problem. The work 
is not connected with any gov
ernment agency or political ac
tion group, but it is an impartial 
counseling service under the aus
pices of the University and City 
Ministries.
Ralph Hagopian. Director 
David Morrison, Counselor
Pittsburgh 
Draft Information Center
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone 682-2751
The ROTC Controversy
SDS Asks: Why ROTC?
The Department of Military 
Science exists on the C-MT.J cam
pus at the request of the U.S. 
Army. It has the permission and 
support of this university, and here
tofore, the tacit approval of the 
student body. We now wish to 
voice our strong opposition to the 
presence of ROTC on our campus. 
We believe that when serious 
consideration is given to the merits 
of ROTC. none can be found which 
justify its being an integral part 
of an academic community. We 
are unanimous on the following 
points:
1. There is no justification for 
granting academic credits of any 
kind to students enrolled in ROTC 
We know of no academic value 
that ROTC can claim other than the 
inculcation of blind obedience
and a dangerous orientation to
wards military solutions to inter
national and domestic problems.
2. The Department of Military 
Science faculty does not meet the 
traditional educational and func
tional requirements for univer
sity faculty members and there
fore should not receive any kind 
of faculty standing on the cam
pus.
3. We can find no valid excuse 
for this university to grant of
fice space and give financial sup
port to the Department of Mili
tary Science since it does not ful
fill any reasonable functions of 
an educational nature.
Students for a Democratic 
Society at this university are un
animous in demanding that there
be no credit given for enrolling 
in ROTC, that the Military 
Science faculty be given no uni
versity faculty standing, and that 
the university cease all direct 
support of ROTC on this campus. 
In addition, many of us feel that 
ROTC should not exist on the cam
pus in any capacity whatsoever, 
in that we feel its presence to be 
inimical to a free and unbiased 
approach to our education and our 
attempts to find real solutions 
to world problems.
The military is not a democra
tic organization, and does not en
courage freedom of thought and 
expression. Such an organiza
tion has nothing to contribute 
to the Camegie-Mellon academic 
community.
Senate Acts On ROTC
Head of Military Comments
The controversy concerning the 
status of ROTC at C-MU stirred 
the Student Senate to action No
vember 24. A motion was pass
ed stating: (1) A ROTC instruc
tor should not be given the status 
of professor, (2) No allocations 
or building space should be given 
as part of official campus sup
port to ROTC, and (3) No aca
demic credit should be given to 
students electing the ROTC 
course. The motion is being for
warded to the administration for 
further action.
Lieutenant Colonel Genualdi, 
Professor of Military Science 
and Head of ROTC, was asked 
to comment on the Senates mo
tion. He stated that ROTC be
longs on campus because it bene
fits the University, the Army, and 
the student. Some of the bene
fits he mentioned were that stu
dents have the opportunity to re
ceive commissions while in school, 
they obtain leadership training, 
and employers of large corpora
tions often value ROTC training, 
to such an extent that they re
ward higher salaries.
Lieut. Col. Genualdi further 
said that every male citizen 
has the legal and moral obli
gation to serve his country. The 
Army needs well-educated and 
well-rounded individuals. Where 
else but the University can it get 
these people. Non-military 
oriented persons add to the army 
and to the nation, he added.
There is no official Army state
ment about ROTC credit. But, he 
continued, there is an item in the 
contract with the University that 
credit for the course must be given. 
The amount of the credit is left 
to the Universitys discretion.
The conferment of the status of 
professor to Army personnel is 
also required by contract. Profes
sor Genualdi stated that depart
ment heads in all other areas are 
professors. The title given to 
ROTC instructors is just to put the 
department on an equal basis, 
he explained.
When asked if ROTC keeps re
cords of a students on campus 
activities, Lieut. Col. Genualdi 
answered, Emphatically no. 
Subversion and suspected acti
vities are investigated by other 
agencies.
He preferred not to answer a 
question as to whether or not 
ROTC has a chilling effect on 
free speech. He said that the ques
tion was too vague and he did not 
know the answer.
MORE ON 
ROTC CONTROVERSY 
ROTC Reviewed by Adminis
tration  May 1968 De pota 10
ROTC Debate is Nationwide
Lieut. Col. Genualdi was then 
asked why he had refused to de
bate the issue on WRCT. He stat
ed that he is willing to present 
information and his views on the 
subject, but he will not engage in 
a debate because too often aebates lead to topics which he is not 
professionally qualified to dis
cuss, like politics.
He added that if ROTC was 
removed from the campus that 
the ROTC Scholars would lose 
their scholarships unless they trans
ferred.
Major Mulholland. Instructor 
of Military Science, was also ask
ed to comment on the controver
sy. He stated that he was caught be
tween the University and the Army 
and that he is willing to give facts 
about the program but not to make 
a policy statement.
ROTC has been present atC-MU 
since 1919. The University must 
request ROTC through the De
partment of the Army and a con
tract is then drawn up between 
the Army and the University. 
Instructors salaries are paid by 
the Army.
FKS continues his never-end
ing battle against sanity and rea
son. See next weeks Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Wednesday, October 30, 1968
Editorial
What This Nation Needs Is AMan 
Who Can Enforce Law & Order; 
Regardless of Liberty & Justice?
MOVE ALONG I"
the Tartan
Targ eatDlI 
ufgrDFhgehUga,
Toeotget ufgrDFsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Erica Borden
cnrgeai ToeotaFsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssSFt ogNtgFIwgm
Ba19 ufgrDFsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssoalUn dapIgl
7a21 ufgrDFsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss ss u f SglFhgm TF,n
c11g1roer 7a21 ufgrDFsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssSuzi Stockton
wmDFr1 ufgrDFssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssscial Bgw1w
.11g1roer wmDFr1 ufgrDFssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssBammn 9mgal
pDrDtFomv ufgrDF1ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss7DmpDl dDmmFI
9Fii 2glUg
yDbos .fbaFrg1get ToeotaFsssssssssssssssssssssssssTarFp 9aiialwFlg
7orgDeos .fnaFrg1get ToeotaF1sssssssssssssssssssssssss SNpn 7apDi
oalUn 7apDi
yovDir ufgrDFsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.iigl 9iFIItal
wabFaroFgos ufgrDFssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.iIFg dDDlgn
UgFbisorgDe ToeotaF1 sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssvaUygi eaw1gl
9D, 2Dmwgm
7a21 wro,,k .mFUa 9Dmpglb Tgrn 7aIIgiib kNIal SaUD,Fb 2gA
n BaNmaIys 2awmFUFa dUTDlaipb 7ygmni dUdayDlb kyamDl Penizzi, Jamie Edlin.
pDrDtFomv wro,,k Bammn -mFgptalb Targ vDIgl,gmb Sgmmn 
kFIzFlpb SDg qnigmb .mFU gmtgb cmw gmIUyNi1
wabFaroFgos wro,,k 2yniiFI 9DDzb kNg 7awwalDb clpmga 7Falgix 
iDb 9D,,gwwg BFlpgmb clpmga dFlw1b eamgl kUyahhgmb eaA
wyn kiDII
wmDFr1 wro,,k clpmgj .iiFIb mg dDmmFIb TDl 9agmb -malz 
kaUUDb dFUyagi 9Nppglb SFt Salzgb Targ MFtFIyb dFzg 
ktDiglf
ROTC Rejection 
Unfair
Targe tDleIslSF
tDleIsog NIerw mUr nIFFIdlpu rDleIslSFf gluprD hp ,sc ,Isslg SpD ,sc
irpBrf sr1srgrpeg FFlrls 9e1lplIpg SpD pIe prBrggSslF7 eUIgr In eUr Tartan.
As cadets in the ROTC program, we object to the recent student 
Government resolution on ROTC; we feel that they have made a hasty 
action without considering the facts of the case.
Student government states that ROTC courses do not merit acacemic credit. ROTC is not a blind indoctrination in the science of 
killing but a program designed to develop responsible leaders and ad
ministrators. It contains a mixture of leadership and technical courses 
which require approximately two hours a week preparation for Basic 
Corps and about three to four hours for Advanced Corps students, in 
addition to two hours of class and one hour of practical applications.
Military history, a sophomore course, looks at history from the 
military viewpoint. It examines the successes and failures of military 
commanders in the various battles and campaigns in which they parti
cipated. Their decisions and the consequences that resulted are con
sidered in light of the principles of war and extrapolated to form a 
basis for the students own decisionmaking ability.
Branch course* given to Engineer and Signal Advance Corps 
cadets, are technical courses which stress the practical approach to 
engineering. Advanced Corps Signal Training includes such topics 
as the planning and design of long and short distance radio and wire 
communications systems and familiarization with the capabilities 
and utilization of the most modem signal equipment in the world. 
This prepares the cadet for taking charge of the Armys mammoth com
munications networks, many as large and complex as Bell Telephone 
in Pittsburgh.
These and other courses prepare the ROTC student for responsi
bilities which would normally fall to a man twice his age. A single 
mistake in combat can cost the lives of an entire company, over 200 
men. A commissioned officer must be responsible and mature; ROTC 
develops these capabilities. Over half of the material learned in ROTC 
classes is applicable to civilian life. As an officer the cadet will 
manage large groups of men and millions of dollars worth of equip
ment, a job comparable to that of president of a small company. For 
this reason ROTC graduates are preferred by business; they have 
proven themselves competent leaders.
It has been argued that ROTC grades save many inferior students; 
this is patently ridiculous. First, ROTC grades are not calculated into 
departmental factors, which are the most important criteria for gradu
ation. Second, the effect of the five unit ROTC course on the cumula
tive factor is insignificant, especially when one considers that the 
amount of time expended for an economics course (approximately six 
hours per week) is only one hour more for almost twice the credit. 
Lastly, Advanced Corps cadets are very carefully selected, and only 
students who do well in their other courses are considered. His ROTC 
grades neither help him nor hinder him on the whole.
Opponents of ROTC claim that C-MU has no voice in the curri
culum or choice of instructors. Carnegie-Mellon, according to its 
contract with the Army, can either accept or reject an officer, or even 
fire him, with good reason. C-MU has no voice in the curriculum pri
marily because it has no experience in the necessary fields. No one 
would expect Dean Mullins to be familiar with the principles of 
war, therefore it would be difficult to ask him to plan the ROTC curri
culum. It is like asking the Chemistry Department to structure the 
courses for Electrical Engineering.
Student Government also has decided that the Head of the Mili
tary Department should no longer be accorded the title of professor, 
because he is not qualified. In science and engineering some measure 
of a mans worth is the number of degrees he holds; in the military, 
rank serves the same purpose. A professor is one who is best qualified 
in his field; a Lieutenant-Colonel in the United States Army has had 
at least twenty years experience in this field, both practical and theo
retical. Since the PMS is usually either Engineer or Signal Corps, 
he is almost certain to have been sent by the Army to graduate school 
for an M.S. in Civil Engineering or Electrical Engineering. In addi
tion, he is most likely to have attended numerous Army technical 
schools and the Command and General Staff College. This plus his 
years of experience make him eminently qualified to be titled Pro
fessor of Military Science.
The allocation of classroom and office space has also been a sub
ject of controversy. The Student Government ultimatum declared that 
ROTC should not receive any building space. The area now assigned 
to the military department is not the choicest location on campus; it is 
doubtful that the space is eagerly sought after by student groups. As 
it stands now ROTC receives no financial assistance from C-MU. 
For the loan of some building space the University receives a fullfledged department gratis. If ROTC were forced to go extra curricu
lar, as Student Government seems to want, the school would have to 
supply building space gratis anyway, as it does with the Tartan and 
WRCT, in addition to providing a budget commensurate with its 
size and scope (the Tartan and WRCT received about $6500 and $3000 
respectively last year).
Going extra-curricular would seriously hamper the ROTC pro
gram. as it involves a good deal of the students time, time which is 
not unlimited. ROTC already schedules around all the other depart
ments: making it extra curricular would make it difficult to partici
pate at all.
As to the SDS arguments which have been presented in this is
sue, they have little or no factual basis. ROTC is hardly an inculcator of blind obedience and dangerous orientation towards military 
solutions. . It may be true that draftees are trained in blind obed
ience by nature of the lowest levels, is an innovator, an organizer 
and a supervisor. He is the first hand observer of the death and destrucion caused by the military solution.
(Continued on Page 6)
ROTC Necessary: 
Military Obligation 
Is A Reality
Editor, The Tartan:
I have recently become aware 
of the existence of opposition to 
the presence of ROTC on this 
campus. In order to gain some 
insight into the controversy, I 
talked informally with the ROTC 
officials, and I think their an
swers to some specific questions 
may be of interest to many stu
dents. These answers, however, 
are not to be construed as official 
or necessarily complete.
What is the rationale for 
having military training on the 
college campus? First, the pur
pose of the university is, in part, 
to enable its students to func
tion efficiently in life on the 
outside. And a part of the out
side consists of the professional 
military and of high ranking 
political and political advisory 
persons-for these people a basic 
understanding of military tac
tics is invaluable. Second, since 
the military obligation is a re
ality, the ROTC provides an op
portunity for the students who 
wish to fulfill this obligation to 
do so as officers rather than as 
enlisted men - a productive and 
sensible use of college graduates 
abilities. Third, the existence of 
ROTC on college campuses pro
vides a diverse background for 
military officers, and discourages 
the formation of a military elite, 
as might happen if, say, all offi
cers had necessarily to have come 
from West Point.
What about the relation be
tween ROTC and the physical 
education requirement on this 
campus? ROTC, if taken for a 
year, replaces the standard gym 
requirement. Any further ROTC 
training is taken by the student 
as a course overload and, while 
the grade is figured in the grade 
point average, the courses do not 
count toward meeting graduation 
requirements.
Do students not participating 
in the ROTC program pay any 
part of its operating expenses? 
No figures were requested or 
given in reply, but the answer 
appears to be that ROTC is selfsupporting. The department it
self is relatively large, and for 
it the university provides only 
office space and one secretary. 
The salaries of the ROTC instruc
tors are not paid in any part by 
the university. Further, the 
schools rifle team is coached 
gratis by ROTC.
While I strongly oppose the 
military policies of our govern
ment, I find it impossible to 
rationally extend this opposition 
to the existence of voluntary 
military instruction on campus, 
especially in light of the above 
facts. I hope that if someone 
holds contrary views, he will 
publicly explain his reasoning 
so that it is possible for intelli
gent opinions to be formed.
R. Michelsen
Safety belts? Not if 
Im just going down to 
the supermarket.
Kathleen Farrell ,(1943-1968)
Safety belts? They 
just make me nervous. 
Besides, they wrinkle 
your clothes.
 Louis Claypool 
(1931-1968)
Who cai ever 
remember to vise the 
darned things?
 Gordon Fenton (1921-1968)
Whats vour excuse?

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1968THE TARTANPage 3
'oium* 1, No. 5 October, 1968
mUr 2lrdg r.1srggrD lp Broadside Ssr pIe prBrggSslF7 eUIgr UrFD v7 eUr 
Tartan, TSspruflry,rFFIp bpl2rsgle7, Is eUr geaDrpe vID7 lp rleUrs 1avFlgUrD 
Is apInnlBlSF geSerkrpegc mUr SaeUIsg Ssr gIFrF7 srg1IpglvFr nIs eUr kSerslSF 
1srgrperD lp Broadside.
Vietnam Sobbath Nov. 2-3
qC. o..T -6v qv4qC
The coming presidential election of 1968 is the saddest in in living 
memory. The nation, to us, seems grievously wounded, in need of comtort, 
healing, and reconciliation. Great tasks lie ahead of it. It cannot af
ford to grow weary.
Some among us lived through the nightmare of Germany in 1932. Too 
many events in the United States, they tell us, now repeat with awful simil
arity the haunting mood, the temptation, the confusion, the passions of that 
bitter time. The good, responsible, religious people of Germany 36 years 
ago, they warn, did not forsee what would happen to them. The Germans 
then thought themselves the most rational, most responsible, most hard
working, most civilized nation in the world.
The good people of Germany went to the election in 1932 desiring 
iaj and Dmpgm above all else. Nothing in their previous experience prepar
ed them for what was to follow. The German people were extremely anti
communist. They wanted to halt the rioting, the demonstrations, the 
fires, the broken glass in the streets. They voted on election day, without 
exactly intending it, against democracy, in favor of a kind of law.
The traditions of our own country are different' from those of Germany. 
Yet many of our traditions are not comforting: not sal very, not segrega
tion, not bossism, not lynchings, not assassinations, not the taste for quick 
and bloody violence that grew with the westward frontier and has been 
constantly nourished in our popular entertainment. We are not proud of 
such manifestations of our national life; we do not think they show us as 
we truly are.
We think of ourselves as a religious people. We think of ourselves as 
generous, unusually peaceable, and neighborly. It depresses us to face 
the constant barrage of evils in which others seem to implicate us: war, 
racism, starving people in our own land and developing nations, es
pionage and counterrevolution, riots and poverty. yn UalQw jg ,g ighw 
Fl OgaUg: yn UalQw OgDOig Igg yDj pgIOgmawgin jg jFIy wD ,g DDp:
The American people do wish to be good, and to be regarded as good. 
Even when we make war we promote an endless stream of articles and pic
tures portraying the generous deeds and instincts the kindness, the good
ness, of American troops. We make promises to rebuild Vietnam  when 
the war ends. We deeply desire to be good.
How accurate is this view of ourselves? How truthful are we about 
ourselves? The call of this election year is, at least, to face the truth. We 
are at the moment prisoners of confusion and rapidly alternating passions. 
We are afraid that the truth will tear us asunder.
yaw FI wyg wmNwy a,DNw DNmIgirgI:
qC. -v43qk 6- cv
Today our most bitter grief is the war in Vietnam. Almost no one re
joices in the war. For some, it is a necessary evil. For others, among whom 
we must include ourselves, the war has not seemed even necessary. Yet, 
whatever the final judgement to be rendered on the war, no other anxiety 
more clearly exposes our national life  revealing the sorrow and shame we 
would rather hide.
More than twenty-nine thousand young americans have died. Over 
a hundred thousand have been wounded, many of them maimed for life, 
hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese have died in their own blood. One in 
every seven Vietnamese at least two million in all, have been driven from 
their homes. We have burned, bombed and scorched that beautiful and ver
dant land. More bomb tonnage has been dropped on that little nation that 
the United States used during World War TI in both the European and 
Paficif Theaters. Indeed, more than 100 pounds for every man and child 
in North and South Vietnam.
What shall we say to the families of the young men who return in 
coffin, or without their limbs? What shall we say when peace is at last 
achieved and  as now seems likely  the terms of peace are not signifi
cantly different than they would have been before massive American esca
lation in 1965? What shall we tell the family of the fallen Man? That he 
died for what he thought was right, no man can dispute. One cannot steal 
away the heroism of the brave, the sacrifice of the fallen and the maim
ed. While we cannot subscribe to the pagan notion that the blood of good 
men dying in an unjust cause makes that cause one whit more just, we 
share the anguish of the families of the fallen.
And what of the young men who are also heroes of conscience, who 
cannot bring themselves to believe that this war is like any other  many 
young men who would have willingly gone to fight Hitler but who re
fuse to fight in Vietnam? Many, to be sure, think all our wars are alike; 
for them, sons fight in Vietnam as fathers fought in World War II. But 
manv voune men refuse to fight in Vietnam. The Vietnamese are not 
the enemy, for them, as the Germans and Japanese were the enemy for 
many of their parents. What shall we say to the young men who languish 
now in prisons because they were not granted the status of Conscientious 
Objectors? What shall we say to those young men who flee America, as 
perhaps their grandfathers or great-grandfathers once fled Europe, to avoid 
what seems to them unjust conscription and immoral coercion? What of
the young men who, despite heavy propaganda to the contrary, come to 
their hour of conscience in the armed services and subsequently have re
fused to fight?
The courage and integrity of the conscientious soldier and the con
scientious young man who refuses to fight cannot be impugned. While 
our hearts are anguished for those who bear the risk and possible pain of 
military service in Vietnam, we must stand with those young men  whose 
conscience will not allow them to participate in the war.
Finally, we must suffer with those millions of young men who cannot 
make up their minds what to do. We understand their restlessness and their 
desperation. They, too, are casualties of this bitter war. For how many rears 
shall our nation suffer the scars inflicted upon its young by this war?
How it saddens us that the candidates for the highest office in the land 
speak so seldom, on this first of all issues before the people. They seem in
different to the anguish of the younger generation. CDj yaI DNm 
lawFDl mDjl ID UaiiDNIb ID UDip :
qC. 76kq 3o 7v.T393B3q0
Yet even more saddening to us is the damage done to the implicit 
trust American generations in the past have placed in our national institu
tions. Possible as many as a million of our young people  those often who 
are the brightest, and most sensitive, the probable leaders of the future 
have come in a few short years to believe the institutions of our democracy 
to be a sham. Many of them mock the present election. How can an honest 
man respond? We say, in sadness, that our democracy is full of flaws; our 
only defense is that all other democratic ways are worse. Many of the young 
listen to us without comfort; they do not believe us. The war goes on, the 
mockery of democratic procedures  in state after state, on issue after is
sue  goes on. yaw Ual we Ian:
qC. 76kq 3o T6d.kq37 kqv3-.
The mood of the country mean while, is made uglier by the frustra
ting war, and serious work at home goes undone. Billions of dollars so 
desperately needed at home for domestic rebuilding are simply not avail
able. The benefits of government taxes redound upon the wealthy and the 
middle class  in roads, automobiles, airports, splendid suburban schools, 
new colleges, and the industries of war and space. Our government meets 
the needs of wealthy farmers, industrialists, and the dwellers in the suburbs. 
The cities and the poor seem systematically excluded. They can wait 
no longer. But at the moment, the energies of countless talented Americans
 and over half a million young men  are turned towards Vietnam. The 
protests and demonstrations against the war have frightened millions of 
Americans. They do not understand the new mood and the new sensibi
lities of the young  their long hair, their dress, their music, their dis
like of the competitive, self-denying ethic of an older generation.
Meanwhile, many members of the white lower middle class  the fac
tory workers, the cab drivers, the police and firemen, the laborers  feel 
threatened from two sides.On the one hand, their own training is affront
ed by the new morality of the young; on the other hand, their own pres
tige and property seem vulnerable before the resolute, determined pro
tests of the non-white poor. The insecurity of this lower middle class is a 
volatile, violent factor in the future of our nation. Millions of members for 
this class have risen from poverty only in the last generation.
Class conflicts, in brief, have been sharpened by the war and by the 
unrest the war has fomented. Some Americans have been so enraged by a 
cry for peace that they have punched demonstrators in the face; others 
have been so outraged by support for the war that they have thrown rocks 
or disrupted speeches.
qyg hmNFwI Dh wyFI jam amg pFrFIFDl alp Fljamp strife. That is why we 
are sad in the autumn of 1968, and all the more sad because the presi
dential candidates speak so seldom of the root of our discontent and they 
offer superficial remedies that will not even cure its symptoms.
qC. C64v -6v 7v.cq3M. T..Tk
The people of the United State are fond of imagining a world threat
ened by a spreading red menace. We do not see that in the last thirty years 
our own influence, not always on the side of justice and liberty, has spread 
more rapidly and more extensively than that of any single world power. 
Our technology, our markets, our system of education, our military-power toward our land. This is the reason that our complicity in every days 
evil is beyond any experience in our past.
We do not raise our voices in vindictiveness or bitterness. We only 
wish to see our nation as it is  to face the shattering truth. We are no 
longer innocent, as we thought. We have been awakened. The plague is 
not in alien institutions, but in our own. We must remake them or we perish. 
Through concerted political creativity the nightmare in which we walk 
must be dissipated. In the past, our forefathers devised institutions to 
meet the need of justice and liberty and brotherhood; no less must we.
qyg igargI amg haiiFl hmDt wyg wmggIs daln Dh DNm ,mDwygmI amg Fl 
OaFls qyg jFlwgm UDtgIs qazgm ygamwW cygapb ajaFwI alDwygm IOmFl:

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Wednesday, October 30, 1968
Food Council 
Is Accepting 
Plans For Change
Co-Chairmen of the Student 
Food Management Council, 
Michael Armentrout and Gloria 
Treppel, announced that the 
Council is now accepting all 
specific proposals for a change in 
the dining system and/ or for a 
new system. Proposals should be 
typed and mailed via campus mail 
to the Student Food Management 
Council, Skibo, by Sunday, No
vember 3.
Tom Brezny has been appoint
ed* as secretary to the Council. 
The representative to A.W.S. is 
Barb Heslin and to the Mens 
Dormal Council, David Kogelman is reporting. All students, 
including graduates, are invited 
to attend the weekly meetings, 
Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. All 
those who attend will have full 
voting status.
Skibo Food 
Prices Reduced
At a meeting of student Cochairmen of the Food Manage
ment Council with the Auxiliary 
Service Committee today, the fol
lowing actions were agreed unon:
1. Effective Friday, October 25, 
cash prices in the Skibo Main 
Dining Room will be re
duced by $.10 at breakfast 
and $.25 at dinner to make 
the meal costs as follows
a. Breakfast $ .60
b. Lunch $1.00
c. Dinner $1.50
2. The co-chairmen of the Food 
Service Committee and Mr: 
Thomas agreed, at the meet
ing, that a statement elabor
ating upon this change would 
be drafted and published 
jointly within the next few 
days.
1. Pipe broken?
No, Im trying to find 
where I stashed some dough.
2. Thats where you keep 
your money?
Sometimes I put it in 
the flower pot.
3. Whats wrong with the bank?
Id only take it right 
out again.
Student Senate Minutes
The meeting was called to order by President Ron Haan at 4:35. 
Role was called. A quorum was present. The minutes were read and 
corrected. Vice President Buddy Brown took the chair, and continued 
the meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
1. Rules:
The 10 seats that were open to freshmen only have now been open 
to the campus at large.
A motion was passed that we open 12 seats to the now under-gradu
ate Student Senate to graduate students (16-3-0). The tabled ammendments of 3 October concerning this issue were approved by the Sen
ate and are stated as follows:
The Preamble to the Constitution of the Student Government 
of Camegie-Mellon University be ammended to read:
We, the students of Camegie-Mellon University to legislate for 
all activities in the day school to supervise and coordinate extra
curricular activities; to effect punitive measures with respect 
to its laws; to be responsible for the finances of student activ-' 
ities and to promote the welfare of the student body, to establish 
this constitution for the Student Government of Camegie-Mellon 
University. And that Article I , Section I, Paragraph A, be 
amended to read:
be elected by the plurality vote of the student body, according 
to the By-laws for a term beginning the third Wednesday in 
April.
and that Article II, Section 2, Paragraph A & B, be ammended 
to read:
A. The Student Body shall be classified into the following six 
constituencies:
1. members of social fraternities
2. members of social sororities
3. independent residents of mens dorms
4. independent residents of womens dorms
5. independent commuters
6. graduate students
B. Each constituency shall have one Senate representative for 
each 100 constituents or majority fraction thereof.
and that Article V, Section 2, be ammended to read:
A petition signed by two hundred full-time day students the sub
ject of which shall be objective to the legislation to be submit
ted to a general- referendum within three weeks of presenta
tion of such a petition to the President of the Student Body, 
and that Article V, Secion 2, Paragraph B, be ammended 
to read:
A majority of votes cast by students voting shall be sufficient 
to rescind the action of the Student Government.
and that the By-Laws, Section 2, Paragraph A, Sub-Paragraph I,
be ammended to read:
I. He shall be a full-time day student and that the by-laws, 
Section 2, Paragraph A, be ammended:
It shall contain the signatures of at least 25 full-time day 
students of Camegie-Mellon University, each of whom has 
not signed any other petition on behalf of a candidate for 
the Senate from the same constituency.
A motion was passed 915-2-10 that all motions to be brought 
up at a meeting be submitted to the chairman at least two days 
prior to the meeting so that they can be placed on the agenda 
which will be published. Ample time will be reserved for 
emergency issues. There will be a tommittee meeting this Tues
day, 29 October, at 7.
(Continued on Page 8)
Students Invited 
To Train for 
Social Work
Undergraduates, who will be 
juniors, seniors, or beginning 
graduate students by the Summer 
of 1969 are invited to apply for 
Pre-Professional Traineeships at 
The Devereaux Schools, a group 
of residential multidisciplinary 
treatment, remedial education 
and rehabilitation centers. Some 
consideration may also be given 
to freshmen and sophomores, - 
as space permits. Summer trainee
ships for appointment as a Re
search Aide, Professional Aide, 
Resident Camp Counselor and 
Day Camp Counselor Tutor are 
available at the Pa. branch in 
suburban Philadelphia. A few 
traineeships may also be avail
able at other Devereux branches 
and camps located in: North An
son, Maine, Santa Barbara, Cali
fornia, Hot Springs, Arkansas, Vic
toria, Texas and in Rutland, Mass
achusetts.
Tax exempt training stipends 
of $200 per month for a 2-3 month 
period, plus room and board, are 
available to qualified applicants 
who are U.S. citizens and un
married. The traineeships are 
supported, in part, by a grant 
from the U.S. Rehabilitation 
Services Administration and are 
designed to provide an orienta
tion to career opportunities for 
work with the mentally retarded 
and the emotionally disturbed 
in special education and vocation
al rehabilitation, in psychologi
cal services, in the mental 
health disciplines and in related 
research.
The Traineeships cover a full
time period of training combined 
with applied service-oriented
work experience and observation 
of on-the-spot milieu therapy. 
Depending upon their functional 
roles, some trainees will have an 
opportunity for work experience 
with mentally retarded and or of 
personal adjustment. Trainees 
who do not have direct contact 
with children will assist the 
staff as Professional Aides and 
as Research Aides in many behine-the-scenes activities and in 
related research and writing.
4. But thats what youre 
doing now.
Not quite. The beauty 
of my system is that 
I usually cant find 
where I put it.
5.1 think youd be a lot better 
off putting some of your 
dough into Living Insurance 
from Equitable. It not only 
gives you and the family
youre going to have a 
lifetime of protection, 
it also builds cash values
you can use for emergencies, 
opportunities, or even 
retirement.
I wonder if it could be 
with the french fries?
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. 
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write: Lionel M. Stevens, Manager, College Employment.
THE f EQUITABLE
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States 
1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, U/F  Equitable 1968
GOOD 
NEWSContact Lens Wearers
Ames Contact Lens
INSURANCE
$12.00 ANNUAL PREMIUM
 Immediate coverage.
 Pays doctor for refitting.
 Pays laboratory in full.
 Protects against every 
loss or damage to lenses.
 Non-cancellable, no limit 
to number of losses.
SEND COUPON BELOW FOR APPLICATION
r AMES INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. ! 
P. 0. Box 45045 
Chicago, Illinois 60645
i
NAME
STREET
CITY
The TARTAN 
Needs Typists 
Sundays, Room 50, Skibo
STATE
I--- IIII--- II--- IZIP I
Further information on the 
Summer Pre-Professional Train
eeships and application blanks 
are available from Dr. Henry 
Platt, Director, The Devereau 
Foundation Institute for Research 
and Training , Devon, Pa. 
19333. Tel: 215 Mu 8-2600.
HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL 
IHTERVtEWS
Mr. Richard L. Nohl, a member of the Admissions Board 
at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business 
Administration, will be at Carengie Tech on Wednesday, 
November 16, to talk to men and women interested in 
graduate study in business as career of excitement and 
creative opportunity. Requirements for admission for the 
two-year course, leading to a degree of Master in Business 
Administration (M.B.A.), include a college degree in any 
field of concentration, a standing in at least the top third 
of the class, the military, or elsewhere. Seniors, or others, 
wishing to talk to Mr. Nohl should contact the Bureau of 
Placement for an appointment.

---------------------------------------------------

Car Buffs do it!
English feather
LOTION
r*iL 0/S MACtWttiA
^English feather,
| For men who want to be where the | 
t action is. Very racy. Very mascu- d 
line. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION, 
i $2.50, $4.00, $6.50. From the com| plete array of ENGLISH LEATHER : 
mens toiletries.
A eiDibg Of MtM COMPANY, INC., NORTHVAtX, N. ]. Den
for action in your career?
Look to Bendix. You'll find an excitement 
that's unique to our pursuit of technical 
firsts.
Bendix offers you diversified scientific 
and engineering opportunitiescareers in 
research and application engineering, data 
processing and business administration.
You'll become a creative problem-solver 
serving the aviation, automation, oceanics, 
aerospace, automotive and electronics in
dustries. You'll help create, develop and
produce new systems, new products, new 
techniques.
You'll also meet up with a lot of fresh 
ideas a continual cross-pollination" of 
technologies between Bendix groups.
And whichever Bendix division or sub
sidiary you choose, you'll find it offers 
small-company concern and personal 
recognition. As well as the chance to 
continue your education.
You'll also enjoy the security of a diverse
billion-dollar corporation whose sales have 
doubled since 1959. A healthy balance of 
commercial and defense business. And a 
research and development program that 
assures continued growth. Ours and yours.
Stop in at your placement office to sign 
up for a Bendix interview and get a copy of 
Bendix Career Opportunities, our directory 
of current openings. An equal opportunity 
employer.
Campus Interviews November 5th
Bend
Where ideas unlock the future
For '68 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTORS
Re-Con Computerizes Job-Hunting
Wednesday, October 30, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 5
by SHARON PERUZZI
Attention future C-MU gradu
ates! Sickened by the prospect 
of job-hunting after graduation, 
the ordeal, the aching feet, and, 
perhaps, the empty wallet af
ter you pay some employment 
agency a job fee? Well, your wor
ries may be over............
Coming soon to our campus will 
be representatives from Re-Con, 
a company responsible for a new 
and unique method of recruiting 
graduating and graduate students 
for industry and professional jobs. 
Re-Con eliminates the confusion 
common to most college place
ment offices by using computers 
which make recruiting more ef
ficient, and, paradoxically, more 
personal.
In order to anticipate the labor 
market next year, Re-Con is now 
being instituted on more than 
eight-hundred campuses. Ques
tionnaires, which give a realistic 
description of educational back
grounds, occupational and lo
cational preferences, and (most 
significantly), personal goals, 
have been distributed to the stu
dents. After returning these com
pleted questionnaires to Re-con, 
the computers then match the stu
dents qualifications to the specifi
cations made by its many clients. 
The clients then receive profiles 
of those students who are inter
ested in workingln that area.
For any of you who have been 
through the embarrasement of a
job interview where your qualifi
cations or interests do not cor
respond with those of the em
ployer, realize the importance of 
such a profile system. With this 
type of system, both the employer 
and the applicant are aware of, and 
are interested in the others cha
racteristics.
Does this seem too good to be 
ture? Within the next few weeks, 
unless you let our Placement Of
fice and school officials know of 
your support for such a program, 
Re-Con will pass right by our 
school.
Authorized follttcagen Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA
(Continued from Page 14) 
look like a sail, but I always make 
it to the bottom of the hill. Once 
more, I become aware of the peo
ple around me. I run as fast as I 
can to the top of flagstaff hill and 
down toward the finish line. As 
soon as the finishing gate is in 
sight my speed picks up. In addi
tion, my stomach starts to hurt, 
I get a cramp in my side, my left 
leg gets stiff, and I can barely 
breathe. The finish line seems to 
be running in the same direction 
that I am, only about 100 times 
faster. I push harder and harder. 
With my final bit of effort I cross 
the finish line and ask the coach 
if we are winning.
For Heaven s Sake! Cast-Scotch n Soda's fall musical going on 
this weekend. Ticket sale starts Tuesday in Baker Hall and Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Positions Now Available  Immediate Openings 
WORK 15-20 HOURS/WEEK 
WEEKDAYS or WEEKENDS
PART TIME $65 PER WEEK
After 7 Hours Indoctrination 
For Appointments Call 441-8176 . . . 9:30 a.m. to 2:00 Ot
uw!
Borrowing a car for a 
joyride isnt the biggest 
crime in the world. 
But its a start.
Some people have a hard time 
communicating with youth.
Not us.
We just bring on the 1969 
Camaro, then tell it like it is.
It is: Restyled inside and out 
with a new grille, new bumpers, 
lgj OamzFl iFywIb lgj FlIwmNA
tglw Oalgib lgj IwggmFl jyggib 
lgj IwmFOFlb alp lgj UDiDmI
including Hugger Orange, which 
is wild.
It is: Full of new features 
including bigger outlets for the 
Astro Ventilation, a 210-hp stand
ard V8, and a lock for the steering 
column, ignition and transmission 
lever.
3ws FIR craFia,ig jFwy a iFwwig 
pgrFUg wyaw aNwDtawFUaiin jaIygI
your headlights when you hold the 
windshield washer button in.
It is: Still wider and weightier 
than the rival sportster were too 
polite to name.
You should drive a 1969 Camaro 
at your Chevrolet dealers the 
first chance you get. jgrlHWgr 
Even if youre 42.Putting y Writ, kpt ms first.
ym-ywji-4
Smaef waofDe 
A-zommaegeb,w
The Isaac Seder Educational 
Center is opening another sea
son of educational and cultural 
programs for adults. Now in its 
43rd year, the Center continues 
to offer one of Pittsburghs larg
est and most fascinating series 
of lectures, workshops, films, dis
cussion groups and concerts. 
It is offered to anyone in the city 
or within a 70-mile radius, and it 
is open to people of any religion, 
race, color, or creed. The first 
meeting is on October 28, at the 
YM-YWHA between Forbes and 
Fifth Avenues in Oakland.
Dr. Cyril H. Wecht will be giv
ing a series of six Thursday eve
ning lectures on Violence and 
the Human Condition: Rape,
Homosexuality, Suicide, Child 
Beating and Abandonment, The 
Pill, Abortion, Murder, Assas
sinations. The first lecture is on 
October 31, at 8:15. Dr. Wecht, 
who is both a doctor and a law
yer, will share his unusual experi
ences with violence and his feel
ings about the human condition in 
our time. His lectures will include 
slides and a discussion period 
afterwards.
W. Lindsay Jacob, M.D. and 
Psychiatrist, will share his in
sights and work on The Purpose, 
Meaning, and Use of Dreams 
in a series of six Tuesday evening 
lectures, beginning at 8:15 on Oc
tober 29. Dr. Jacob will point to
wards showing people how to un
derstand and work with their own 
dreams. In particular, he will dis
cuss: Why We Dream; The 
Dream Symbol; Visions, Tel
epathy, Clairvoyance, Precog
nition  the Unusual Aspects of 
Dreaming to name a few.
Author and commentator on 
literature and society, Arthur 
Bergholz* will be continuing 
Dr. Solomon Freehofs Wednes
day morning book reviews, begin
ning October 30 at 11:00 A.M. 
He is a distinguished literary 
critic and television personal
ity, so his reviews of the very 
latest novels should prove to be 
entertaining. He will open his se
ries by contrasting Norman Mail
ers latest work, Armies of the 
Night, to Stendahls classic, The 
Red and the Black. On the Wednes
days that follow he will be dis
cussing other well known contemp
orary authors and comparing 
9TIpelparD Ip iSur 13)
AFSC Offers 
Training In 
Non-Violence
The American Friends Service 
Committee is offering a fifteen 
hour weekend course in Training 
in Nonviolence and Direct Action 
from November 15 to November 
17. The aim of the course is to 
help interested students in specif
ic nonviolent direct action proj
ects such as fair housing, employ
ment, peace, and personal rela
tions. The students confidence 
and competence in approaches 
and tactics of nonviolence, includ
ing role-playing, tips on incident 
control and street parking, will be 
stressed.
All interested students, includ
ing out-of-towners, are invited 
to attend. Participants should 
plan to attend all five sessions. 
A fee of $5 is requested to cover 
the traveling expenses of the 
trainers.
Application forms and further 
information may be obtained b> 
writing: American Friends Serice Committee, 4836 Ellsworth 
Avenue, Pittsburgh. Pa., 15213. 
683-264 or 683-5915.
Page 6THE TARTANWednesday, October 30, 1968
Between Classes or at Study Break j
-SCOTTY'S- \
OPEN TO SERVE YOU \ 
24 HOURS A DAY ?
3913 FORBES AVENUE
s s s alp s s s
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA7918 PENN AVENUE
Dont help a good boy go bad. Lock your car. Take your keys.

International
? _ j
*Artistic Hairstyling!
Cutting and Hair Shaping
For a little more . . . you can look like youve always *
* wanted . . . THE BEST OF YOUR APPEARANCE" }
tc  Just 1 Block from The Dorms  if
i 207 OAKLAND AVENUE - BELOW FORBES I
 by appointment... 682-3738 J
69 Camaro SS Sport Coupe, plus RS equipment
ROTCRejectionUnfair
9TIpelparD nsIk iSur 2)
The military is not a democratic organization by virtue of the fact 
that it is necessary to order men to their death. It is hardly a voting 
matter. If the citizens of the United States have decided that some 
should die so that others can go aoout their business without fear, it is 
not up to the military to quibble.
The ROTC cadet, however, has no restrictions whatsoever placed 
upon his speech or opinion. He is a student and is accorded every 
right given to any other student. We find only one restriction placed 
upon ROTC students: that they conduct themselves at all times in a 
manner which reflects credit upon themselves, their school, and their 
ROTC unit. We feel that this is not too much to ask, and it in no way 
interferes with their right to free speech.
The presence of a military unit on campus in no way hinders any
ones free speech. Membership in ROTC is purely voluntary; the 
Army cannot use conscripted officers. No one on this campus is ever 
affected by ROTC unless they belong to the unit. Only if the thought 
of seeing someone in the uniform of their country grated on their 
nerves could ROTC affect students at C-MU.
In conclusion, we feel that the Student Government and the SDS, 
by their movement to remove the ROTC program, are in fact denying 
freedom of choice to over 10 percent of the undergraduate class at 
C-MU. The presence of ROTC on campus offers students a choice, 
something that is basic to a democracy. This should be well known to the 
SDS. They stand for a democratic society why then do they attempt.
 Gordon Morris
 Bill Pence

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 7
Black-White 
Forum: Fall 68
The Oratory Forum is held at 
the Tech House (5136 Beeler 
Street) on Tuesday evenings at 
8:00 P.M. Its goal is to present 
both black and white experts 
who can describe their local sit
uations. The Oratory is commit
ted to what is valid for the uni
versity education and relevant to 
members of the university com
munity. The schedule of discus
sions is as follows:
Oct. 29 - The discussion center
ed on the Blacks in the 1968 
Election, was led by Sam Hayes, 
Department Chairman of History 
at the University of Pittsburgh.
Nov. 5 - No Forum due to Elec
tion
Nov. 12 - Contemporary Drama, 
Stage and Screen 
Nov. 19 - Mental Health or Lack 
Thereof - at C-MU 
Nov. 26 - Thanksgiving Week 
Dec. 3 - The Church Today 
(Clergy)
Dec. 10 - The Church Today 
(Catholic Laymen)
Dec. 17 - Optional Forum
Faculty Members 
Are Available For 
Student Conferences
All faculty members have been 
urged to keep posted on their 
office doors a weekly schedule 
of at least one hour during which 
they will be available for consul
tation and informal conversations 
with their students. The Facul
ty Senate hopes that this will im
prove communication between 
students and faculty outside the 
formal classroom contact.
Although some faculty mem
bers thought that students do 
not take advantage of the oppor
tunities for communication which 
already exist, the posting indi
cates the willingness of the fac
ulty to listen to students problems 
ulty to listen to students prob
lems and to discuss them infor
mally. It is hoped that students 
will take advantage of the time 
provided for their benefit.
WANTED: STUDENT TO LIVE IN, in re
turn for baby sitting. Own room, pri
vate bathroom, telephone, third floor 
private house. Darlington Road, Schenley Park. 421-1544.
The Westinghouse Building, 
the last structure of the Gateway 
Center Project, is currently un
der construction at the corner of 
Stanwix Street and the Boulevard 
of the Allies. The square-sided 
skyscraper will be the first office 
building its size to be heated sole
ly by electricity. This is made 
possible by an ingenius system 
for tapping the natural heat gen
erated by workers and office ma
chinery and piping it to colder 
outside areas of the structure.
Pick Up Thistles
The following people have already paid for the 1968 Thistle and can 
pick them up in Skibo 53 any Sunday between 2-3 P.M.:
D. R. BallentineLes KovalikGary Roberson
Bill BenthalAnn HoytSue Shank
Carl BrownVal HurtLes Silverman
E. CramerHealea (Beta)Ken Siger
Maggie CulganLainie LondonMike Smolens
Terry ChenovwethGordon S. MorrisC. Smart
Cassidy (Beta)Cindy MorseP. W. Snyder
Joe DuckworthTom McGuireBonnie Stepp
Tom DavidsonSue MillerJan Steffens
R. EllingerBruce MurrayBrad Smith
Bruce FemieMoter (Beta)Grant Scott
Bob HarbageJ. MitchJim Stout
W. HauckMeledandri (Beta)Shapiro (Beta)
Bob IsemanPeter J. NyikosTucker (Beta)
Dianne KaweckiPaul ONeillKevin Wilson
H. K. KrummelGerald PeckDave Wommack
L. KochB. Porter
Original
HOUSE
of
BEEF
PRIME ROAST BEEF
waFnaf ra an qDi yg9a SP
-PIZZASERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMSI 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
COMPUTERIZED 
DATING
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. FOR FREE BROCHURE,WRITE
DAT AMA TIC P. O. BOX 7421 OAKLAND STATION PITTSBURGH, PA. 16213
If your name is on this list and you have already picked up your 
yearbook, please drop a note to this effect in the Thistle office.
There are still 200 unsold copies of the 1968 Thistle and they 
will be sold on a first come, first served basis.
Naval
Research
Laboratory
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Ap t-aSF z11Iseaple7 tk1FI7rs
The Navys Corporate LaboratoryNRL is
engaged in research embracing practically 
all branches of physical and engineering sci
ence and covering the entire range from 
basic investigation of fundamental prob
lems to applied and developmental research.
The Laboratory has a continuing need for 
physicists, chemists, metallurgists, mathe
maticians, oceanographers, and engineers 
(electronic, electrical, and mechanical). Ap
pointees, who must be U.S. citizens, receive 
the full benefits of the career Civil Service.
Candidates for bachelors, masters, and 
doctors degrees in any of the above fields 
are invited to schedule interviews with the 
NRL representative who will be in the
IARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
placement office on
TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 12
Those who for any reason are unable to 
schedule interviews may write to The Per
sonnel Office (Code 1818-1), Naval Research 
Laboratory, Washington, D. C. 20390.
Original 
Hot Dog Shoppe
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dopx Sold
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To All Dorms from 9 p.m - 12:30 a.m. 
Tgegi SFfaF wxljM
3901 FORBES AVE.>
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
ENCES AT fl Ilance
orIN BOOKS 
REPORTS 
and
CLASSROO 
NOTES
BOOK STORE
Chemical Manufacturing
Rohm and Haas 
Company
Plastics, Fibers, Pharmaceuticals, 
and Chemicals for Agriculture, 
and the Processing Industries.
Will Interview on
Nov. 6, 1968
For positions of responsibility, 
diversity and strong future 
advancement possibilities.
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, PRODUCTION, 
MARKETING, FINANCE.
Philadelphia headquarters. Plants and Offices throughout 
the U.S. and in 23 foreign countries.
ROHM 
IHRRS
a z a
PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA 19105
Heres your chance to rate the 
greats in compiling the top 90 songs 
of all time in the WRCT/9 Music 
Electon..
TitleArtist
3....................................................................................................................
Just Clip and Drop In Campus Mail

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANWednesday, October 30, 1968
ANTHONE REVIEW
Duffy & Hot Millions
by Tony Lawrence
FOR AU YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
WRCT/9
Box 12 
CAMPUS MAIL
By TONY LAWRENCE
There are two movies in town now that deal with what is common
ly known as the heist.
One is an idiotic piece called DUFFY and stars one of the great 
non-acting superstars of our time  James Coburn. He is joined by 
James Fox, James Mason and Susannah York, who have much more 
talent, (though it is wasted here) than he.
The typical plot is about the above mentioned folks trying to suc
ceed in a robbery, of James Masons (who looks terrible) boat, with
out getting caught. The ending is of almost no surprise since the 
screenwriter wrote himself into a pretty limited corner to say nothing 
of his lack of imagination.
The Shadyside Theatre on Walnut is exercising their usual good 
judgement in bringing in good films. The newest offering is a delightful 
picture produced by Mildred Freed Alberg and directed by Eric Till 
and called HOT MILLIONS. The excellent cast is comprised of Peter 
Ustinov, Maggie Smith, Karl Malden and Bob Newhart with guest ap
pearances by Robert Morely and Ceasar Romero. HOT MILLIONS is 
about an infinitely more interesting sort of heist. Ustinov, just out 
v/f prison, is told bv the warden that it was a computer and not the po
lice that caught him embezzling and to be careful.Naturally he wants 
revenge on the computerized society and cleverly manipulates himself 
into a responsible position with a firm appropriately called Tu-CamCo. He then begins his task of duping their computer (which is suppos
ed to be embezzle-proof out of xCN million dollars. The story 
sounds routine enough. But where a film like this pulls way out in front 
of something like DUFFY is in the very essence of film making. Both 
films are from major studios (Columbia & M-G-M), both cost about the 
same (somewhere between one and four million) and both are getting 
the same type of distribution. The difference is that the characters 
and circumstances in DUFFY are stupid and ridiculous with their joy
ride activities seeming senseless. In HOT MILLIONS we are on Usti
novs side and as eccentric as he is, he is real and not cartooned.
I have long thought that Peter Ustinov was a genius; this film 
reinforces that opinion. He succeeds where someone like Peter Sel
lers fails. Where Sellers is, more often than not, a clown playing for 
nothing  Ustinov is a total creator; not just a brilliant comedian but 
a great actor. His uncommon versatility is just as evident in films
like SPARTACUS and QUO VADIS which earned him Academy 
Awards. Where Sellers is often outrageous Ustinov evokes a more last
ing response with his immatchable subtlety. His, by now, famous fa
cial gestures and vocal nuances are pure and solid art.
Laurence Olivier has dubbed Maggie Smith the best comedienne 
of all. Indeed this actress who was devastatingly magnificent as Desdoma to Olivers Othello is remarkable as a cute, pert Cockney work 
ing girl who is hilariously inept at every job. Her timing and comic 
sense are excellent. She is Ustinovs secretary who falls in love with 
him and manages to save him in the end from prison again.
Their scenes together are very touching and are done, not by two 
simply funny people, but by two genuinely great actors. Newhart is 
very funny in a part that would have been played years ago by the likes 
of Tony Randall. Newhart is just seedy enough as the over efficient 
junior vice president. He has done well in resisting the temptation to 
make the performance like doing one of his old night club routines. 
Even when that does come across it is well employed and very amus
ing. Karl Malden is very convincing as the pill munching chief vice pres
ident. Robert Morley and Caesar Romero also make much of their mi
nor assignments.
The script was written by Ustinov and Ira Wallach and photog
raphy by Ken Higgins coupled with flawless editing by Richard Marden greatly added to the overall result. The apropos score is by Laur
ie Johnson.
Campus Camera Headquarters
*?
j PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS f' b
* Wt RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS*
*
I 3711 FORBES AVENUE
 2yDlgRHE(x);E;
Student Discount on Most Items
GIVE A 
DAMN BUTTONS 
NOW ON SALE 
Y OFFICE 
25g
Black Candidate 
Speaks Thursday
Mr. A1 Gary, first black Congres
sional candidate in Pittsburghs 
history, will speak at the Ys 
Thursday Luncheon Forum this 
week. Mr. Gary opposes Con
gressman William Moorhead of 
the 14th district, who spoke at 
the Luncheon Forum last week. 
Mr. Gary is a Republican, and 
will be accompanied by Mr. Rich
ard Thornburgh, former 
candidate for the seat for which 
Mr. Gary is now running.
All students are invited to the 
forum which begins at 12:30 
in the Wherrett Room. Lunch may 
be carried from Skibo cafeteria 
or the Tartan Grill. Mr. Garys 
and Mr. Thornburghs remarks 
will be followed by questions and 
discussion with the audience.
SPECIAL PLAYBOY COLLEGE RATE SUB
SCRIPTION. Seven months $4.50; One 
year, $6.50; Two years, $12.00; Three 
years, $16.50. Send check or money or
der, made out to Rick Landis, PLAYBOY 
College Rep., 330 Melwood Ave., Apt. 
5, Pittsburgh 15213. Act now, as news
stand and subscription rates will soon 
be going up.
WANTED: FURNISHED APT.: 1 or 2 bed
rooms, Nov. 15th to Dec. 31st; for C-MU 
visiting faculty member, wife, infant.' 
Campus vicinity preferred. Call 683- 
1300 (WQED), ext. 69.
THANKSGIVING BUS TO NEW YORK$18.50Fred Messing, Box 250.
RUGS
FOR
LESS
Profit by CHASE'S buying poweri
Over 1000 New 9x12s 
$15, $20, $29, $39, $49
also 6x9s, 12x12% 12x15s, 12xl8's
FURNITURE
Save 40% at CHASE'S associated 
WHOLESALE SHOWROOMS 
close by our rug outlet.
CHASES
5432 WALNUT STREET SHADYSIDE
 621-1025 
Open every day 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday till 5 p.m.)
Student
9TIpelparD nsIk iSur 4)
2. General Campus
A motion was passed (914-2-3) that Sandy Jones be removed from 
office of General Campus Committee Chairman and that this office 
be open to Senators.
Applications are being taken immediately, mail to either Buddy 
Brown or Student Senate Box in rm. 103 Skibo.
3. Publicity:
Publicity will be out on the gym requirements being made retrac
tive. It is now final.
4. Housing
The Board of Trustees accepted the idea of building a new coed 
dorm by 1972 if the financial backing comes within the next six months. 
It was suggested that we request that AWS investigate the possibility 
of eliminating hours for freshmen girls.
5. Finance:
A motion was passed (11-4-2) that no organization with budgets 
over a thousand dollars is permitted to exceed its budget as filed with 
Student Government by more than $100 for any one expense item. 
The sum of all expenditures in excess of individual budget items shall 
not exceed $300 without the approval of the Senate.
6. Union
A motion was passed unanimously that $75 be appropriated as the 
prize for the Skibo lobby design contest.
OLD BUSINESS:
1. Activities Fee - Instead of a second semester Activities Fee, the 
Administration agreed to allocate $15000 if a budget is submitted 
and approved.
2. Executive Council vetoed our motion concerning Mr. Stewart and 
experssed their concern of the matter to the Administration in
stead.
3. A motion was passed unanimously that we request the University 
not to close Frew Street to students until proper places for parking 
are re-allocated, and that more parking facilities be made avail
able to students within three months.
4. A request for allocations for the Foreign Policy Forum group was 
tabled to the Finance Committee.
NEW BUSINESS:
1. A motion was passed (13-0-1) that the General Campus Chairman 
be made an automatic representative to the faculty Student Af
fairs Council.
Nominations were made for the three remaining positions on this 
council and will remain open until the next meeting.
James Bush 
Tom Burgess 
Steve Lawrence
2. A motion was passed (8-6-3) that the chairman of Academic Af
fairs and the President of the Student Body be made automatic 
members of the faculty Academic Affairs Council.
Linda Vogel and Debbie Shore were voted by the Senate to be 
our other two representatives on this Council.
3. A motion was passed (13-3-3) concerning ROTC as follows:
 A ROTC instructor should not be given the status of professor 
on this campus.
 No allocations or building space should be given as part of offi
cial campus support to ROTC.
 No credit should be given to students electing the ROTC course.
4. A straw vote was taken indicating the Senates approval for further 
investigation into the possibilities of a computerized pre-screen
ing system for placement of seniors and graduate students in jobs.
The meeting was adjourned at 6:37
Respectfully submitted,
Susie Plaks, Secretary
a
PH.D. GRADUATES
INVESTIGATE OUR CHALLENGING POSITIONS NOW AVAIL
ABLE IN THE STEEL INDUSTRY'S NEWEST RESEARCH COMPLEX
The Inland Steel Company, Indiana Harbor Works, East Chicago, Indiana invites 
you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descrip
tions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will be on your campus 
TUESDAY, NOV. 5, 1968. Contact your Placement Office for an appointment.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
INLAND
INDIANA HARBOR WORKS
.ckq 7C37c6b 3oT3coc
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program 

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 9
Campus Interview Schedule for
Monday, November 4,1968
Asiatic Petroleum Company 
Communications & Systems, Inc.
Diamond Shamrock Corporation 
General Dynamics Corporation 
Electronics Division 
Sinclair Oil Corporation 
Sinclair Research 
Worthington Corporation
Tuesday, November 5,1968
Bendix Corporation 
Inland Steel Corporation 
Mobil Oil Corporation 
Procter & Gamble 
Sylvania Research Company
Wednesday, November 6,1968
General Tire & Rubber Company 
Dept, of Health, Education &
Enviromental Control Adminis.
Hercules, Inc. and Allegany Ballistics Lab.
M. W. Kellogg
Rohm & Haas
West Virginia Pulp & Paper
Thursday, November 7,1968
Celanese Corporation 
General Dynamics Corporation 
Convair Division 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 
Johnsons Wax 
Sander & Thomas 
Timken Roller Bearing Company 
United Aircraft Corporation 
Pratt & Whitney Division 
United Steel Corporation
Friday, November 8,1968
Eastman Kodak
FMC Corporation 
Chemical Division
General Dynamics Corporation 
Convair Division
Hercules, Inc.
Pan American Petroleum
Rand Corporation
Std. Oil Company of California and
Chevron Research Company Marathon Oil
Advanced Degree Candidates
Monday, November 11,1968
Allied Chemical Company 
American Oil Manufacturing Department 
Bethlehem Steel 
Cooperative College Registry 
General Aniline & Film Corp. 
General Dynamics Corporation 
Fort Worth Division 
I. B. M.
Monsanto
Tuesday, November 12,1968
Esso Research & Engineering 
General Telephone & Electronics 
I. B. M.
Ingersoll-Rand Corporation 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation 
Monsanto
Schlumberger Research 
Naval Research Laboratory
Wednesday, November 13,1968
Continental Oil Corporation 
Computer Department 
Consolidation Coal Company 
Esso Research & Engineering 
Firestone Tire & Rubber 
Central Research Lab. 
General Electric 
Koppers Company
Thursday, November 14,1968
Burroughs
General Electric
General Mills
Hewlett-Packard
National Cash Register Company
Charles Pfizer & Company
Pfizer International
United States Steel Corporation
Friday, November 15,1968
American Cyanamid Corporation 
Continental Can Company 
General Mills 
Lubrizol
United Aircraft Corporation 
Hamilton-Standard Division 
Westinghouse Electric

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANWednesday, October 30, 1968
ROTC Reviewed by Administration-May 1968
Fraternity rush gets underway.
Why Students Revolt: 
Lecture by Dr, Katz
By SHARON PERUZZI
That mid-terms are just around 
the corner is evidenced by t h e 
many students who flock to the 
library, night after night. The gai
ety and frolic of Homecoming 
weekend seems to have been for
go t ten. However, Dr. Joseph 
Katzs lecture on Why Students 
Revolt is one aspect of Home
coming that will echo throughout 
the year as CMU students ask 
the administration to treat us 
like were paying $3,000 
per year, ask for more intimate 
housing arrangements, and for 
the institution of the pass-fail 
system for everyone.
According to Dr. Katz, the 
most important reason for stu
dent revolts is the alienation fac
tor. This results from a lack of 
relatedness between the student 
and the society outside the uni
versity, and the lack of communi
cation between the men and women 
within the college. Demonstra
tions are valuable in solving this 
dilemma in that the student gains 
a sense of fellowship, security 
and a definite identity. Dr. Katz 
then cast a new light on the char
acteristics of the leaders of dem
onstrations, and of the activities 
of the all night sit-ins.
Dr. Katz cited the grading 
curve as one basic evil, stating 
that it is difficult enough to go to 
school for four to eight years 
without any immediate rewards 
for the students work, such as the 
pleasure of seeing his knowledge 6dUDergeiaf De pota 12)
Hie anutA/here
for
apartment-living . . . 
or anyone who 
thought they could 
never have a
Here's the answer. . .
New MAYTAG Porta Drqer/ll5V
* USE IT ANYWHERE * STORE IT ANYWHERE * NEEDS NO 
SPECIAL WIRING OR INSTALLATION * PLUGS IN 115V OUTLET.
No room for a dryer? Read this!
Compact new Maytag dryer takes half 
the usual space. Goes anywhere. Roll 
it under a counter, tuck it in a closet, 
yes, even hang it on a wall! The 
Anywhere Dryer goes where others 
wont
No Venting-No Installation Problems
Its ready to use-plugs into any ade
quately wired 115V outlet This Maytag 
Halo-of-Heat* dryer gives you the 
same dependability, and does every
thing the big Mayings do except take 
up space.
OPEN DAILY 9-9THURS. & SAT., 9-6
S. BINSTOCK;:^,^;
S 
R E
3804 Forbes AvenuPhone: 682-6457
The question of ROTCs stand
ing on campus was initially re
viewed last May by the Academ
ic Affairs Committee. While no 
major action was taken at the 
time, it was suggested that the 
University re - examine the con
tent of ROTC courses and consid
er the place of Military Science 
in the curriculum at a later date.
Col. Crocker and Dean Monrad were present to participate 
in the discussion of questions 
concering ROTC.
The Effect of ROTC Credit on 
Graduation
Col Crocker stated that he 
doesnt know of any student who 
has remained at C-MU because 
of his ROTC grades, which are 
averaged into the cumulative fac
tor. He indicated that there is 
about the same percentage of fail
ures in ROTC as there is in other 
freshman courses and then when 
students who are not really inter
ested are weeded out the grades 
go up a little bit. He pointed out 
that although any university par
ticipating in the ROTC program 
agrees to grant appropriate cred
it for graduation it is entirely 
up to the university to decide what 
is appropriate. In response to a 
question as to whether or not a 
student who is failing ROTC could 
gradua , Dean Mullins stated it 
would depend on how the failing 
grade affects his cumulative fac
tor.
Nature of the Course. The Role of 
the U.S. in World Affairs
Prof. DeBenedetti opened the 
discussion by saying that some 
people are worried about the 
course, The Role of the U.S.in 
World Affairs, and they would like 
to know if it meets the require
ments of academic standards.
Col Crocker stated that the ob
jective of The Role of the U.S. 
in World Affairs is to analyze the 
position of the U.S. in the contem
porary world. Normally a tenhour course, it has been modi
fied to six hours^ The approved 
text, from the Department of 
Defense, is out of date and is 
being rewritten as World Change 
and Military Implications.
The question was raised as 
to what options or controls the 
University has over material 
taught in ROTC . Col Crocker indi
cated that there are a few, but not 
too many. In requesting that 
ROTC be established, the insti
tution may elect either the fouryear program (first two years, 
three hours a week; last two 
years, five hours a week) or the 
two-year program (three hours a 
week) or combination of both 
Another option is general mili
tary science or a particular 
branch, or branches, of the Army. 
The institution agrees to present 
the curriculum as directed by the 
Secretary of the Army. The pro
fessors of military science can 
adjust the hours but must fol
low, in general, the course as pre
scribed.
Col. Crocker stated that the 
Department of Defense changes 
the ROTC curriculum a little 
each year, and he predicted that 
there will be a fair amount of 
change next year. An advisory 
panel, comprised solely of rep
resentatives from the academic 
world, reviews the curriculum 
and suggests changes to the De
partment of Defense. In addition 
an institution can submit recom
mendations at any time. The Col
onel described a current experi
ment in which some of the uni
versities participating in the 
ROTC program are teaching a 
course on military history  mil
itary aspects of history, lessons 
learned, and implications in a 
military sense. He said that 
ROTC is more academic than 
most people realize, andjjointed 
out that 177 hours of academic
instruction are applicable to any 
profession and 154 hours are di
rectly applicable to the military 
profession. Military Science pro
fessors have been directed to en
courage class participation and to 
explore all points of view, not just 
the military. Col. Crocker explain
ed that ROTC courses are listed 
in the catalogue in very broad 
terms. Lesson plans, textbooks, 
and other materials are avail
able to anyone who is interested 
in looking at them.
During the discussion it was 
pointed out that an institution 
has the option of accepting or re
jecting an officer who is assigned 
to them and can, with good rea
son, fire him.
Substitution of ROTC for Athlet
ics
Dr. Schatz said that this was 
a move on the part of the Univer
sity to give ROTC an even break
grams are very carefully select
ed.
In response to a question con
cerning political indoctrination in 
ROTC courses, Col. Crocker 
replied that courses are direct
ed toward national defense, not 
policy.
The discussion then focused on 
problems that could arise as a 
result of male enrollment in the 
new College of Humanities and So
cial Sciences. Col. Crocker ex
plained that C-MUs ROTC pro
gram is directed toward the En
gineering and Signal Corps, both 
of which require that the student 
be enrolled in certain engineering 
and science courses. H&SS stu
dents participating in ROTC 
would be recommended for com
mission in some other branch of 
the Army.
It was suggested that CIT 
should examine ROTC course mato the extent that it can be sub- tterial and consider the question
stituted for athletics. Col Crock
er agreed that, in view of the de
mands on students time, it would 
not be desirable to require phys
ical education in addition to ROTC. 
He also said that many students 
who take ROTC just because 
they do not want to take physical 
education usually drop out.
Records Kept by the ROTC
Prof. DeBenetti indicated that 
some people are concerned about 
freedom of expression and pvivacy of opinion, and they are wor
ried that the records kept by 
ROTC on students might be used 
against them.
Col. Crocker stated that there 
is no reference to race, politics, 
or religion in the ROTC records.
A loyalty oath must be signed by 
students taking ROTC. If a student 
who is enrolled in a school with 
mandatory ROTC refuses to sign 
the loyalty oath, he can partici
pate on a non-enrolled basis but' 
cannot wear a uniform. A stu
dent who is accepted into the ad
vanced courses must complete 
the Armed Forces Security Ques
tionnaire, which is less detailed 
than the Civilian Security Clear
ance Questionnaire. If a student 
belongs to an organization listed 
on the questionnaire, a number 
of factors determine whether or 
not he is disqualified for ROTC.
His papers are forwarded to 
Headquarters, where his case is 
considered and a decision is 
reached.
When recommending a student 
for a commission, the records 
are helpful in evaluating his char
acter, merits, demerits, grades, 
summer camp oerformance, and 
leadership ability.
Contract Between ROTC and Ad
vanced Students
Subject to any restrictions of 
the institution, any student who 
qualifies must be accepted into 
the first two years of the ROTC 
program. Enrollment in the ad
vanced courses, offered in the last 
two years, is limited and students 
are accepted on a quota basis. 
Upon acceptance the student is 
required to sign several agree
ments. In general, he agrees to 
do his best to follow the program 
and, if successfully completing 
it, will accept a commission if 
one is offered. He is required to go 
into the reserves, and it is pos
sible thasible that he could be called 
tive duty. A student can be disenrolled for physical reasons, fail
ure to maintain grades, undesir
able traits of character, and the 
like. If a student willfully evades 
the contract, a board of officers is 
appointed to investigate the case 
and make recommendations to 
the Army. Col. Crocker stated 
that if a student is disenrolled 
for willfully evading the terms 
of the contract it doesnt mean 
he will be forced to go on active 
duty. He emphasized that stu
dents entering th advanced pro
of credit and that no further ac
tion is necessary at this time.
In closing the discussion, Col. 
Crocker mentioned that one of 
the requirements for establish
ing a ROTC unit is that the in
stitution will grant the senior 
military member the title of Pro
fessors of Military Science. 
C-MU goes beyond this require
ment and also lists Assistant 
Professors of Military Science. 
He indicated that all listed as As
sistant Professor of Military Sci
ence have degrees of some sort 
and most of them are working 
toward graduate degrees. Dr. 
Schatz stated that the correct 
titles should be Professor of Mil
itary Science in Residence and 
Assistant Professor of Military 
Science in Residence and that ap
pointment forms should indicate 
this.
Famous 
Last 
Words 
of 1968
I always wear safety 
belts if I'm going on a 
long trip. But not if Im 
just going down to the 
supermarket. Thats 
right in the neighbor
hood. What could 
happen ?
Kathleen Farrell (4943-1968)
Whatfc your excuse?
A"!.
Advertising contributed 
for the public good.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 11
When I was in graduate school, I wanted 
to make sure Id get to use what I was learn
ing. Thats why I went into marketing at IBM, 
says John Houlihan.
John earned his MBA in 1966. He now sells 
IBM computers to mutual funds, banks and 
other financial institutions.
Its a management consulting job, he 
says. The reason is, computers affect nearly 
every area of a business. I get involved 
with a customers accounting, finance, and 
marketing. Which means I have to know 
something about each of these areas. So I'm 
constantly using the broad scope of knowl
edge I picked up in graduate school.
Working at the top
Another management consulting aspect of 
Johns job is the level of people he deals with. 
Most of the time, he says, ! work with vice
presidents and the data processing manager. 
But I also have to deal with the president 
because he's often the only one who can give 
final approval.
And when youre working with people on 
that level, you need the management tools 
you get in graduate school. If a customer 
starts talking about a regression analysis, I 
can stay with him. Or, I might get involved in a 
linear programming study to determine the 
optimum stock mix for a portfolio. Believe me, 
getting an MBA was worth the extra effort.
Career areas for MBAs
Marketing is only one of several areas for 
MBAs at IBM. Others include finance and 
engineering. MBAs in finance can work in 
Financial Planning and Control, Financial 
Analysis, Accounting, and Information 
Systems. In engineering, MBAs work mainly
MBAs at IBM
Believe me, it was worth the extra effort!
An Equal Opportunity Employer
in industrial engineering and manufacturing.
Whatever area you choose, we think youll 
agree with John: Getting my MBA was 
worth the extra effort.
Visit your placement office
Sign up at your place
ment office for an inter
view with IBM. Or send 
a letter or resume to 
Irv Pfeiffer, IBM,
Dept. C, 100 South 
Wacker Drive, Chicago, 
Illinois 60606.
CAMPUS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TBE TART AN-Wednesday, October 30, 1968
Student Revolt(Continued from Page 19)
THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS . . .
Space Odyssey  2001
by TIMOTHY BAY
and ideas at work. With a grad
ing curve the student is even 
more unsure of himself in that 
he is only given an approxima
tion of the value of his work. The 
pass fail system, on the other 
hand, would foster learning with
out the added pressure of worry
ing about grades. And, to give 
the student the feeling of imme
diate rewards for his work, pro
grams such as the tutoring of un
der-privileged children would 
give the student satisfaction in 
having done something useful and 
the chance to see his education 
at work. Dr. Katz stated that stu
dents today are very concerned 
about the political and social hap
penings outside the campus. Un
like those college students in the 
pas whose purpose it was to cure 
the economic poverty, our stu
dents are trying to cure the so
cial and psychological poverty. 
The lack of communication on 
campus is another factor which 
enhances the students sense of 
alienation. Dr. Katz feels that 
home has no meaning for those 
who live in modern dormitories 
where security, peace of mind, 
and pleasure are sacrificed for 
the efficiency of long, barren hall
ways and the even more barren 
cubicles called rooms. To rem
edy this Dr. Katz proposed that 
coed dormitory facilities be al
lowed where one floor would be 
for females and one floor for 
males. Dr. Katz gave evidence 
that on the college campus where 
the male dormitory is totally 
separated from the female dor
mitory, the dating system 
becomes just so much of a pop
ularity or rating scale. This cer
tainly does not decrease the stu
dents sense of loneliness and 
alienation.
Dr. Katz went on to prove false 
those people who suppose that 
leaders of the demonstrations 
are drop-outs and flunkies. On 
the contrary, the majority of the 
leaders are better students, come 
from wealthier families, and are 
more psychologically and social
ly well-adjusted than those who do 
not participate in the demonstra
tions. And of what do the major
ity of these all-night sit-ins con
sist  sex orgies, dancing, sing
ing? Dr. Katz showed that most 
demonstrations were held on 
campus buildings and education
al programs scheduled  every
thing from Chaucer seminars 
and intellectual films, to discus
sions of the role of the student 
on the college campus.
Dr. Katz concluded his lecture 
by a question and answer period. 
One of the many interesting ques
tions was whether or not Dr. Katz 
thought that CMU would become
another Columbia. Understand
ably, Dr. Katz stated that until 
he knew more about the campus 
and the surrounding community, 
he could not answer this question. 
In consideration of what has been 
happening since Homecoming 
weekend, what do you think?
Grads Get Voice
Graduate students have final
ly been given a definite voice in 
student affairs at C-MU. At last 
weeks' Student Senate meeting, 
graduate students were awarded 
12 permanent seats in the Sen
ate.
The Tartan fully supports the 
integration of graduate students 
into the campus community. 
There are many untapped re
sources within the graduate stu
dent body; we hope that they will 
be put to constructive use through 
the channels of student govern
ment.
Space Odyssey: 2001 
proves that the possibilities of the 
wide screen do not have to be 
wasted on mindless spectaculars. 
The film  playing in a theatre 
downtown  is on one level, a 
beautifully researched and metic
ulously constructed vision of the 
shape of things to come. It is 
also a metaphysical drama, with 
a disturbing, provoking answer 
to the question of mans place in 
the cosmic scheme.
Odyssey opens with a welling 
of grandious music  shades of 
Dimitri Tiompkin  but it is here 
that the resemblance to the typic
al Hollywood spectacular ends. 
The credits read The Dawn of 
Man; We see our early Hirsute 
ancestors gathered around in an 
Arizonian landscape. Enflolding 
with a gradual eventless 
beauty we watch their actions: 
quarrelling among themselves, 
huddling together for protection, 
eating wild animals. A monolith 
appears in their campsite, a glis
tening alien object, and the crea
tures gather curiously around it. 
It gives off a piercing shriek 
and the ape humans run for cov
er. Then early man discovers a 
basic fact of life  that he must 
defend himself against outsid
ers. There is a battle among the 
apes, and the victorious ape lead
er throws his weapon, a bone, in
to the air. The sailing bone be
comes a spacecraft circling in 
space, and, what seems an arbi
trary cut, becomes a beautiful 
link in the film. For the bone dis
solves into, as was pointed out 
to me by a scientist friend, an 
armed spacecraft. Man and his 
weapons, his source of survival, 
are inextricably linked.
The film is in four parts; it is 
the structure of a symphony and 
the film with its theme and var
iation is obviously built along mu
sical pines. Critics accustomed 
to the logical form of most mov
ies were confused by this struc
ture. (Godard among others has 
proven the irrelevance of con
ventionally structured films.)
On the space station subsid
iary dramas develop and it is here 
that Director Kubricks mordant 
humour comes into full play. 
Again the critics with their pre
conceptions expected the wild 
black humour of Strangelove, 
and thus missed the lethal irony in 
many of the scenes. The station 
itself is like a spread out of 
Life magazine. Officials on the 
station talk in the dull jargon of 
bureaucrats; they discuss what 
may be evidence of another race 
of beings in the most banal terms. 
A spacecraft is sent out to Jupi
ter to investigate and find out 
whether man is not really alone in 
the universe. The result of the mis
sion, however, is quite different. 
The end of the film explodes in 
a fantastic display of visual pyro
technics that makes the effects 
in Cormans The Trip look 
like last years Macys fireworks.
Literally, the viewer is bom
barded by weird patterns of col
or, strange luminous rocky land
scapes and finally, most inexplic
able of all, at the end of the jour
ney, an 18th century French draw
ing room. The space man, played 
by Keir Dullea,.comes in the pres
ence of master alien intelligenc
es who take him through the cycle 
of life. He sees himself age, then 
die and be reborn again. In the end 
he has become God.
Stanley Kubrick, the director, 
once the wunderkind of the Amer
ican cinema, has, in this film, 
consolidated his position as the 
major talent of the Ameri
can screen. Beginning in films of 
modest B efforts such as Kill
ers Kiss and The Killing, a 
really good asphalt jungle type 
thriller, he later directed Paths 
of Glory, still ope of the best
(Continued on Page 13)
Ourmanufacturingprogram is forengineers who want to run things as well as design them.
Do you like the idea of running a factory as well as 
designing one? The idea of controlling the quality 
of products as well as developing systems to pro
duce them? The idea of motivating people as well 
as supervising them?
If you do, youll like the idea of the General 
Electric Manufacturing Management Program.
Itll prepare you for a management position in a 
variety of engineering areas: manufacturing engi
neering, plant engineering, quality control, mate
rials management and factory management.
And dont let the program part throw you. 
Youll start working the first day. And youll work 
hard. Because youll be working on real problems. 
Problems that have to be solved now.
Our representative will be on campus soon. So 
if you think youve got what it takes to take charge 
of things, why not talk it over with him?
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1968-THE TAR TAN-Page 13
ROTC Debate Is Nationwide
Start acting like an institution 
of learning instead of a training 
ground for the United States 
Army. This was the message of 
an address to the Student Commit
tee for Social Change at Pomona 
College, Pomona, Calif. The re
port is representative of the de
bate on campuses across the 
country.
From our research it appears 
that ROTC is not a typical Po
mona College course of instruc
tion. ROTC in many ways exer
cises numerous controls on the 
freedom of each student enroll
ed. Some of the restrictions are 
minor, such as controlling the 
style and length of hair. Others 
are more fundamental: no junior 
can spend his junior year abroad 
without prior appeal from the 
Sixth Army Headquarters in Los 
Angeles. According to the ROTC 
Cadet Standing Operation Proced
ure manuel, students are required 
to conduct themselves on and off 
the field. This is the only course 
at Pomona College that openly 
exercises such controls. ROTC 
professors are either approved 
or suggested by the Army. Pro
vision article 4 of a ROTC conue offering a course that needs 
the recommendation of the army 
for professorships; that controls 
students activities outside the 
classroom; that allows full votes 
in faculty meetings to officials 
of the armv; that discourages 
dialogue and commands detailed 
obedience; and that trains its pu
pils in mock guerilla warfare?
These changes must be made to 
make ROTC consistent with the 
purposes of the Claremont Col
leges.
1. Removal of full votes for 
ROTC instructors in faculty meet
ings.
2. An end to permitting ROTC 
to send their propaganda through 
the mail to freshmen.
3. An end to special treatment 
in the orientation program for 
ROTC presentation.
4. An end to interference by 
ROTC of the off-course activi
ties of its students.
5. An end of the control by the 
army of the curriculum of any 
course offered by the Claremont 
Colleges.
6. A complete re-evaluation 
of a liberal arts curriculum to the 
training of military officers.
7. Removal of academic cred
it for ROTC.
mjt&u, aw
4igsfgetl
The Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity mourns the recent loss of 
its long beloved Mall, recently 
deceased due to an acute case of 
construction.
The appealing greensward 
stretching up from Hammerschlag Hall almost halfway to 
Fine Arts has been appropriated 
as a staging area for construc
tion of the Computer Sciences 
Building.
Home of the egg toss and count
less frisbee games, the. Mall is 
not gone forever, but will bloom 
again, whenever the building is 
finally finished.
(Continued from Page 6)
their works to classics of earlier 
years.
For the first time in Pittsburgh, 
a program of lectures on Black 
Poetry will be offered. Andrew 
Solomon, a member of the fac
ulty of the Department of English 
at the University of Pittsburgh, 
will conduct a series of six lec
tures entitled, Black is the Col
or: American Poets who happen 
to be Black. They will be on Mon
day evenings at 8:15, beginning 
October 28. He will examine the 
poetry of LeRoi Jones, Paul Laur
ence Dunbar, and Gwendolyn 
Brooks to name a few. Black 
specialists on the Drama and 
Poetry of Negroes will present 
worthwhile contributions to these 
lectures, making the sessions 
quite fascinating and vivid.
In addition to these lectures, 
foreign language classes and 
bridge lessons will be given. 
The language classes will be on 
Tuesday and Thursday evenings, 
the bridge lessons on Thursdays. 
Also, the Foreign Film Society 
will be showing great old films 
the first Sunday of every month, 
through June. Charlie Chaplin will 
open the season masterfully on 
November 3, appearing in The 
Great Dictator.
(Continuedfrom Page 12)
anti-war films; Lolita, a biz
arre uneven version of Nabokovs 
book with some nice dliectorial 
touches; and Dr. Strangelove, 
a frightening grotesque-comic 
vision of the end of the world. 
One of the few really visually 
minded American directors, Ku
brick owes this partly to his early 
background as a photographer 
for Life.
The photography, acting, and 
sometimes ambiguous script, are 
on a very high level. Kier Dullea, Gary Lockwood, and a com
puter named Hal are the princi
pal actors. Hal, incidentally, in 
his film debut performs one of the 
most moving filmic death scenes 
in years. The viewer  straight, 
stoned, semi-conscious, or in a 
uanscenaenidi state  will find 
himself fascinated by the stag
gering technical genius and art 
istry of this film.
All activities of the Isaac Seder 
Educational Center are open to 
the public at all times. Further 
information concerning programs, 
catalogs, or registration is avail
able by calling the Educational 
Center at 621-6500, or by writ
ing to the Isaac Seder Education
al Center, c-o the YM-YWHA.
tract with another college simil
ar to Pomona reads:
No unit may be established or 
maintained at an institution un
less the senior commission offi
cer assigned to the institution 
is given the rank of professor.
No other outside force controls 
the granting of professorships in 
such a manner. These Profes
sors of Military Instruction 
have full votes in faculty meet
ings.
Other facts about the program 
reveal the controls and details 
that make ROTC different from 
other courses at Pomona. Before 
pointing these out I quote Po
monas President E. Wilson Lyon 
on the purpose of the college:
The desired ends of our years 
together are the rigorous growth 
of the intellect, the shaping of 
character, and the development 
of social conscience.
Now lets examine how ROTC 
fits into this rigorous growth 
of the intellect.
The following statements are 
direct quotations from the ROTC 
manuel on Cadet Operation pro
cedure:
In the military service cour
tesy goes hand in hand with mili
tary discipline. Military discip
line is the adherence of a group 
of military men to a code of con
duct necessary to maintain con
trol of large numbers of individ
uals and to insure their most ef
fective employment in the attain
ment of a common goal. (III-3)
Both in and out of uniform 
cadets will conduct themselves 
in a manner which reflects cred
it upon themselves, their college 
and their ROTC unit. (III-4)
The method of reporting to an 
officer indoors, unarmed, in or 
out of uniform is as follows: When 
directed to report to an officer in 
his office a cadet approaches the 
entrance to the office, removes 
his headdress, if covered, knocks, 
and enters when told to do so. 
Upon entering he halts, about 
two steps from the officer, sal
utes, and says, Sir, Cadet reports 
as directed.  (V-c)
Is it within the purposes of 
the Claremont Colleges to continAtmosphere for Achievement
If you are contemplating a career in 
aerospace, your next ten years are 
critical ones. The exposure you get 
to major projects, the caliber of your 
associates, the quality and availability 
of educational institutions for advanced 
study, and the recognition you get for 
personal achievements will all count 
heavily toward building your 
reputation and your income.
At Convair you will find management 
sensitive to the importance of your 
personal development and you 
will work in an atmosphere of 
achievement side by side with some 
of the most capable people in our 
industrythe people who developed 
Atlas-Centaur and other space age
equipment and systems which are 
making headlines the world over. You 
will have access to four highly rated 
colleges and universities for advanced 
study. Your assignments will be 
selected from more than one hundred 
key study and development projects.
A variety of outstanding career 
opportunities are yours at Convair 
in the following areas of concentration: 
aeronautical, electrical, electronic and 
mechanical engineering; engineering 
mechanics and engineering physics.
Engineers will be assigned to 
the following areas: advanced systems, 
systems analysis, space sciences, life 
sciences, information sciences, 
scientific data processing, aeroGENERAL DYNAMICS
Cony/air Division
Ssn Diego, Californio .e uQios SmmDFriegrv umsDvaF
ballistics, dynamics, thermodynamics, 
guidance, structures, mechanical 
design, electrical design, reliability, 
test engineering and materials 
research.
See your placement officer to 
arrange a personal on-campus 
interview with our representatives 
or write to
Mr. J. J. Tannone, Supervisor, 
Professional Placement and Personnel, 
Convair Division of General Dynamics, 
5568 Kearny Villa Road, San Diego, 
California 92112.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTANWednesday, October 30, 1968
Defense Stops F&M; CMU Wins, 7-6
Lombardo Scores TD 
Halsted Saves Victory
The Tartans picked up their second victory of the season by 
edging Franklin & Marshall 7-6. It was a tough defensive 
battle marked by 10 fumbles (three lost by each team) and 
three interceptions (by CMU). The Tech victory was aided by 
a muffed conversion attempt by F & M. Tom Lombardo scored 
the lone touchdown for the Tartans and Joe Chemays extra 
point proved to be decisive. ball to the F&M 37. Ken BatorCoach Gasparella knew he would skis run picked up two more
have to depend on a strong de- yards. Lombardo barrelled
fensive effort in order to win, through again to give CMU a first
since F&M were undefeated. 
Therefore, he stressed defensive 
play during last weeks practice 
sessions. The Diplomats had won 
seven straight games (three last 
year) and in their four victories 
this season had allowed only 16 
points while scoring 70. F&M 
also boasted a fine offense, led 
by Quarterback D. J. Korns, 
who completed 15 of 23 passes 
for 197 yards in his teams win 
over Dickinson a week before.
All the extra practice paid off, 
as the Tartans held the home 
team scoreless in the first half 
while taking a 7-0 lead. The 
Tartan score came midway 
through the first quarter after 
Scott Calvert recovered a fumble 
at midfield. On two running at
tempts, Tom Lombardo moved the
down on the 20. On a crucial 
fourth and five play from the 
15, Rich Squires tossed a screen 
pass to Tony Bugel, who battled his 
way to the two. Lombardo ran for 
the score and Chemay kicked the 
extra point.
F&M narrowed the margin to 
one point early in the third quar
ter. After his team recovered a 
fumble on the CMU 36, Korns 
led a drive to the two yard line 
and scored on a keeper. The snap 
from center on the extra point at
tempt was bobbled, and F&Ms 
Max Schnellbaugh was forced 
to run, but he was stopped short 
of the toal.
For the remainder of the con
test, CMUs defense stayed tough 
as they halted five F&M drives 
inside their own 20-yard line. ScorCMU back Tom Lombardo (22) follows Rich Helhowski (72) on run. Lombardo scored the only Tar
tan touchdown in 7-6 victory over F&M.
ing threats were stymied as Ken 
Bator ski picked off two of Korns 
aerials, and the Tartans recover
ed a fumble. With only two and a 
half minutes remaining in the 
game, Bill Halsted stopped the 
Diplomats final attack by inter
cepting a pass in his own end 
zone.
48
Nov. 2
Nov. 9
Nov. 16
Theil 
Oberlin 
Grove City 
Allegheny 
F&M
Johns Hopkins 
Adelbert 
at W & J
F&M came out in front in sta
tistics with 292 total yards 
on offense. They held the Tartans 
(whose offense gained 473 
yards against Allegheny) to 197 
net yards. Squires went to the air 
only 16 times, considerably less 
than any of his previous perform
ances (he has been averaging 34 
tosses per game) and complet
ed seven for 101 yards. The Tar
tan record is now 2-2-1.
Johns Hopkins invades the 
CMU campus on Saturday, and 
may find it difficult to stem the 
Tartans momentum. Game time is 
1:30 p.m.
CMU
8
96
101
16^7-0
8-26
32-27
V- * T'v F&MFirst Downs lg 
Yards Rushing 127 
Yards Passing lg5 
Passes 37-21,3 
Punts 4_37-
Fumbles Lost 3 
Penalties ^
CMU " 0 0 0 -7
F&M o 6 0 0  6
CMULombardo, 2, run (Chernay kick) 7-0
F&MKorns. 2, run (run fail
ed) 7-6
The Tartans defense was great in the clutch. Here Larry Getto (11) 
and John Dzura (31) put a tight reign around F&M quarter
back Korns (15)
FOOTBALL STATISTICS
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
CMU
Team 
FIRST BOWNS 
YARDS RUSHING 
no rushes 
avg per rush
YARDS PASSING 
attempts 
cocnpietions 
had intercepted 
avg. per completion
TOTAL YARDS 
no. plays 
avg. per play
PUNTING YARDAGE 
no punts 
avg per punt
YARDS PENALIZED 
no penalties
Interceptionsnoyards
Halted11
Chernay248
Getto225
Dumont1SI
Lombarde114
Scaring
Che may
Thomas
BatorAi
Lombardo
Bugel
Hashing
Batorski
Lombardo
Thomas
Squires
Receiving
Chernay
Thomas
Bugel
Batorski
Tepsc
Kickoff retaras
Batorski
Lombardo
Thomas
Chemay
Dzura
Pul retaras
Chernay
BatorAi
Lombardo
Panting
Getto
Wood
TdsExtra pts Total51040
024
4242012
128
no.YardsAvg.LG5432538391794625411283 111
24331427
noyardsTdsLG
18285533
12124228
11160149
187143
332020
noyardsAvg
12721 2a242418617.25431433
1I1.
.yardsAvg
196123286
YardsAvgLP
78534 144
34534547
The Thought Of A Cross-Country Runner
By DON BAER
A sport is more interesting 
to the participant than it is to the 
spectator. When you are part of 
something your thoughts and ac
tions are much different than 
those of a bystander. I think many 
people wonder what goes through 
the mind of a Johnny Unitas, Jim 
Ryan, or Bill Russel when he is 
competing in his special event. 
Just what is a football game like 
from the field, or how much does 
it hurt to run a worlds record 
mile? Im sorry that I cannot an
swer the above question, or for 
that matter give the thoughts of 
any great or good athlete when 
he is involved in his specialty. 
But I can give some of my 
thoughts during a cross country 
meet.
Most meets are on a Saturday 
morning, but like all Carnegie stu
dents, my favorite way to spend a 
Saturday morning is sleeping, 
not running through some cross 
country course. After I force my
self to get up (too late to eat any
thing ( I find that I am very hun
gry Since I dont usually eat any 
breakfast I know that my body is 
trying to tell me what a fool I am 
for getting up on a Saturday to run. 
After all, what good is cross 
country any way? Sleep is of pri
mary importance. Unfortunately, 
I remember that I am committed 
to run, hence soon my debate 
with myself is over and I am in 
the locker room getting dressed.
Usually I do not care how my 
running clothes fit but just before 
a meet my shoes are too loose, 
my socks are too small, my shirt 
is too big. and my shorts are too 
tight. There is however nothing 
I can do about these minor incon
veniences and somehow I forget 
about them. The next type of re
sistance to running comes from 
my legs. They have felt very good 
all week, even after a heavy work
out, but on Saturday, after a day 
of rest, they do not want to move.
The short jog out to the course 
makes me feel that I cannot run 
four feet at race speed, let alone 
over four miles. The left knee 
that has never bothered me sud
denly begins to hurt. Breathing 
becomes tremendous effort. A 
simple exercise, like a jump; 
ing jack, takes about as much ef
fort as it would to move a three 
ton truck, while a sit up is almost 
impossible.
With much effort, I manage to 
get partially warmed up and I re
move my sweat clothes for the 
race. The team gets together for 
a moment of silent prayer, usually 
called a cheer, then we approach 
the starting line. If I have felt bad 
all morning. I now feel downright 
sick. How could I really expect to 
run when I seem to be so out of 
shape? Maybe I should have vis
ited the mens room just before I 
came out here. My shoe is now too 
tight so I try to loosen it before 
the starter shoots his gun. I know 
this does not always happen, but 
it seems that as soon as I 
get down to adjust my shoe, the 
gun goes off and the race is on.
For some reason that I have 
not figured out yet. I am always 
running last at the start of the 
race. No matter how hard I try 
to run at first, everyone else is 
faster. Soon your position rel
ative to other runners makes lit
tle difference. All the experiences 
are the same. You can see only 
so many people and you only wor
ry about the ones you can see.
There may be someone ahead of 
you and possibly several behind 
you, but you begin to think about 
each individual. Does the guy in 
front intend to keep up that ab
surd pace? Well, killer hill will 
get him. What about the one just 
behind me? Is he keeping a per
fectly even pace that will kill me 
on three mile high: Ugh. here is 
killer. Well, let s go. This hill 
gets longer every time I try it. 
After a few minutes of blank
thought and lack of breath (hope
fully reaching the top of killer)
I begin to wonder what the hill 
did to the competition. No matter 
how hard I work running up that 
hill, it never effects anyone 
around me. My position hasnt 
changed. Near the one mile mark,
I feel that I should drop out of the 
race and find some way to sal
vage the day. But I continue to 
run.
Soon we are heading down three 
mile hill. Someone always passes 
me on that hill, but I also seem to 
be able to pass someone too. At 
the bottom of the hill is another 
hill  naturally. I try to run up 
that hill and to get to the two mile 
mark in a reasonable time. Final
ly I am getting completely loosen
ed up and feel like 1 can move. 
Then comes three mile hill, only 
up this time. What a way to kill 
a good feeling! For one endless 
mile I must run up that hill, and 
either keep hundreds of people 
from passing me or pass the fresh 
alert runner in front of me. Af
ter this point the hill seems to be 
a blank in my mind.
At the top of the hill, the peo
ple around me are different. 
Sometimes it is for the better 
and sometimes for the worse, but 
there is a change nevertheless. 
Places seem to stay the same un
til a little mountain appears in 
the course. This is cobblestone 
hill. With several hundred trips 
up this hill behind me, I have dis
covered that the only way to as
cend it is as fast as possible. The 
torture is over sooner that way. No 
one passes me on that hill.
At this point the race is a hold
ing action from my point of view. 
Most of the remainder of the 
course is downhill. I run as fast as
I can. hoping that everyone be
hind me thinks that I am too far 
ahead to catch. Usually there is a 
mild 25 mph wind blowing up the 
hill, making my size 46 shirt 
9TIpelparD nsIk iSurq )
A

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 30, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 15
Tartans Top Pitt In Soccer
2-1 Victory Is Fourth For CMU
By F rank Sacfco
The CMU soccer team defeated 
a squad of Pitt freshmen 2-1 for 
their fourth victory in six deci
sions. Jones scored the first goal 
for the Tartans late in the second 
period. Luis Rosanes tallied the 
decisive Tartani goal when he 
headed a high pass from 
past the Pitt netminder.
The Tartans permitted Pitt to 
bring the ball in close, but played 
exceptionally well around the net 
to hold the Panthers. Pitt finally 
scored with about one minute 
remaining in th^ contest when 
Valencio drilled a penalty kick 
past CMU goalie Boiisewitz. How
ever, The Tartans held off a final 
Pitt attack to preserve the win.
This was the final home match 
of the season for the Tartans. Two 
away games remain. The team 
will travel to the Johnstown cam
pus Saturday for a game at 1:30 
p.m. The final contest is a week 
later at Slippery Rock, also at 
1:30 p.m. A lot of credit should 
be given to Coach Kruth and each 
member of the team ior their fine 
performances against more ex
perienced opponents. Led by cap
tains Luis Rosanes and Sam 
Weiner, and leading scorer Hen
rik Palme, the soccer team has 
defeated Allegheny C.C., Young
stown U., Point Park and the Pitt 
frosh while losing to tough teams 
from St. Francis and Grove City.
1964-65 
Sports Highlights
December 16,1964
The Tech Rifle Team shot 1385 
and took the third place varsity 
trophy in the Walsh Invitational 
Rifle Match held at Xavier Uni
versity in Cincinnatti. Kent State 
won and Murray State finished 
second. Tech finished ahead of 
Notre Dame, Cincinnatti, and Ken
tucky.
Jeff Kalins 24 points and 19 
rebounds led CIT to an 84-76 win 
over Waynesburg. It was Techs 
first victory in five games. 
February 10,1965
The average factor of the start
ing five basketball players was 
3.29. However, the Tech record 
after the first 13 games was 3-10.
February 17,1965
Co-rec ping-pong was estab
lished by the IM board.
IM NIGHT, 1965
In the IM basketball finals, 
BTP beat Grad Physics 41-35. 
ATO defeated GSIA, 47-45, in 
the consolation game.
A championship Co-rec bad
minton match was played.
And CFP played WAA in vol
leyball.
DID YOU KNOW? .... Car
negie Tech was a member of the 
West Penn Athletic Conference 
until 1962 when problems in the 
league forced Tech to drop out. 
The school has been an indepen
dent since that time.
IM REVIEW
CMU and Pitt booters chase ball in Saturdays soccer game. The 2-1 
Tartan win was their fourth victory of the season.
Harriers Split A Pair
Record 5-3
By Don Baer
Indiana stopped the Tartan 
win streak at four when they de
feated the harriers at Indiana, 
last Wednesday, by the score of 
21 to 34. The Tartans finished the 
week, however, by beating West
minster 18 to 39 in the last home 
meet of the year. These decisions 
bring the CMU record to 5-3.
CMU had defeated Indiana by 
one point last year and they must 
have been up for this years meet. 
That is the only way to explain 
how the first man on the Indiana 
team can run a minute faster than 
his best previous times and break 
the Indiana course record by 
fifty seconds. The second Indiana 
man bettered his time by fifty 
seconds and also broke the course 
record. Their third and fourth men 
finished much faster than they 
had before and, in fact, both of 
them ran as fast as the previous 
fastest Indiana time of the year. 
To sum it up, we were told that 
a good runner would finish in 
about 23 min. and 10 sec. and in 
spite of the fact that we had four 
runners finish faster than that 
time, it wasnt close.
Friday October 26 was the last 
home meet for three seniors. The 
meet also followed the rather 
upsetting loss to Indiana. Although 
it was rainy and cold, nine of the 
Tartan harriers bettered their 
home course times. Westminster 
felt the force of the Tartans. In 
spite of the fact that freshman 
Juan Rodriquez was missing, due 
to academic pressure, the Tartans
CMU runner reaches end of gruel
ing meet.
had four men finish in less than 
twenty five minutes. Only the 
times of the Waynesburg meet of 
1966 were faster, and Tech was 
undefeated that year. The final 
score was 18-39.
Cross Country Indiana vs CMU
TooleI21:31
GalbraithI52
FlynnCMU22:04
22:21
ClarkI36
AllshouseI40
ManonCMU42
BaerCMU 58
HawkinsCMU23:05
StilsomI23:44
BullersCMU 58
 Previous course record
CMU vs Westminster
FlynnCMU23:14
ManonCMU....24:11
BaerCMU24:20
BruceW32
HawkinsCMU52
GregoryW25:09
ElyCMU..25:13
HannaW25:22
BullersCMU25:32
Rifle Team Drops Two
Rifleman fires in CMU-Allegheny 
contest.
By Jon Arnold
The Tartan Rifle Team began 
its season this weekend with two 
matches, against Pitt on Friday 
night and against Allegheny Col
lege on Saturday. The Tartan 
team was defeated both times, 
going down 1281-1191 to Pitt and 
1310-1234 to Allegheny.
The team had a record number 
of people trying out with over 30 
applicants, of which eight were 
chosen. The newcomers are Abi
gail Abeles, Gary Arnold, Brian 
Bom. Ted Elden. Richard Gerlie, 
Edw'ard Hyde, Deborah Koger, 
and Donald Valesky. Teamed with 
the returning shooters. Eric Sandgren. Rich Boynton, Francis 
ODonnell, Bemie Beran, Bill 
Clayton, Harry Wolf, and Jon 
Arnold, the Rifle team is brought 
to a strength of 15. The new 
freshmen turned in promising 
scores over the weekend, es
pecially Miss Koger with a 242 
and 266 for the two matches. Eric 
Sandgren is back in fine form
Browns League:
ATO A gained the top spot 
with a grueling 48-34 decision 
over TDP A. Neither team could 
be stopped in the first half as Tau 
Delts spread offense built up a 
28-19 lead. Lazarus was able to 
hit Crown, Dobin, and Glasser 
consistently. Passes to Jacks and 
Weiss from ATOs scrambling 
quarterback, Malley, brought his 
team back in the second half. The 
turning point of the game came 
in the fourth quarter when Tau 
Delt was pinned with a safety 
and ATO opened up a 15-point 
lead with a TD pass to Jacks.
Final Standings: W.. . .L
ATOA 5 0
TDPA 4 1
E.J. Bandits 3 2
PKT 2 3
SNB 1 4
BTPC 0 5
Cowboys League:
After a slow start DU-J com
pleted a perfect season. They lost 
to the Architects 29-13. In 
other action SNA downed ATO 
B by the score of 37-5 before 
surviving a near upset by a tena
cious BSR squad, 26-15. SAE
Purple primed for its clash
with SN for first place by defeat
ing ATPB 19 to 7.
Standings: W L
SAEPurple 5 0
SNA 5 0
Architects 3 3
BSR 3 3
ATO B 2 3
E.J. Warts 1 4
DU-J 0 6 .
Packers League 
BTP A gained first place by 
defeating PKA 25-13. Beta built 
up a 12-0 lead after the fijst 
quarter and were never headed.
Standings W L
BTP A 5 0
PKA 4 1
NADS 3 2
DU A 2 3
EJ Carp 1 4
TDP AA 0 5
Colts League:
The Old Men - E.J. Game for 
first place was postponed.
Standings Won Lost
Old Men 5 0
E.J. Thorny 5 0
BTP B 4 2
KS 3 *3
DTD 2 4
SAE - Gold 1 5
TX 0 6
with a 251 and 270 for the week
end. Senior Harry Wolf and Jun
iors Rich Boynton and Jon Arnold 
comprise the other of this week
ends top five.
The match with Pitt, although 
slightly confusing as to who was 
home team, went off smoothly 
for the Panthers as they overcame 
the Tartans 1281 to 1191. Tartan 
high scores were Sandgren-251, 
Boynton-247, Koger-242, Wolf; 
226, and J. Arnold-225.
On Saturday the Allegheny 
Gators visited the Tartan team 
with nothing but bad news for 
the Scotty shooters. Allegheny 
walked away with a league re
cord 1310, with three of their 
scores, being a 280 and two 268s. 
The Tartans, a little stronger 
than the night before, came in 
with a 1234 comprised of: Sandgren-270, Koper-266. Boynton-245. 
J. Arnold-239, and Wolf-214.
The next match is at home, on 
Saturday. November 2, at 1 p.m. 
against St. Francis College.
Co-Rec Volleyball
Spike League:
The two top teams SAE- gold 
and ATOA had two easy vic
tories each as Spike League ac
tion got under way. The only sur
prise of the young season was 
when SAEE scored a come 
from behind victory over PKTgold, 6-15,15-4,15-2.
W L
SAE-gold 2 0
ATOA 2 0
SAE.-E 1 1
BTP-B 0 1
PKT-Gold 0 1
SN-C 0 2
Pass League:
In the Pass League no match 
was forced into a third game as 
BTP-A, SN-A, and DU-J all dis
played early power. Mudge, 
SAE-D, and ATO-C dropped 
from the running with a pair of 
losses each.
WL
BTP-A20
SN-A20
DU-J20
SAE-D02
ATO-C02
Mudge02
Set League
SN-D beat Algorithms 15-11, 
15-5 and BTP-C defeated Algori
thms 15-5, 15-13. In other games 
DTD beat SAE-C and PKT+Purple was victorious over DTD.
STANDINGS W L
SN-B 1 0
BTP-C 1 0
PKT-Purple 1 0
DTD 1 0
SAE-C 0 1
Algorithms 0 2
Serve League
SAE-Purple won twice, defeat
ing SAE-F 15-3, 15-0 and SN-B 
15-2, 8-15, and 15-2. ATO-B also 
won two times, over SAE-F 
15-13, 15-6, and a forfeit victory 
over KS. SN-B beat TDP-A 6-15, 
15-8, and 15-11.
STANDINGS W L
SAE-P 2 0
ATO-B 2 0
SN-B. 1 1
TDP-A 0 1
KS 0 1
SAE-F 0 2
The Tartans have only
2 home football games left.
Come out and support your team 
this Saturday at 1:30 p.m. 
as CMU meets Johns Hopkins

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16THE TARTANWednesday, October 30, 1968
Election Eve 
Peace Vigil
Vote as if your whole world 
depends on it! pleads a well-exposed political announcement. 
A group of concerned students 
who believe in the importance 
of the upcoming election will be 
holding a Peace Vigil in the Cut in 
front of Skibo patio Monday night, 
the eve of the election. Starting 
at 9:00 p.m., the rally will con
tinue through the night and will 
include speakers and singers. It 
is hoped that everyone concerned 
with the outcome of the election 
will attend.
The program for the rally will 
many prominent men from the 
Pittsburgh. It is planned that 
Professor McCreary of the His
tory Department will give a key
note address. Other speakers 
will include Bouie Haden, the dra
matic militant leader from Homewood-Brushton; Robert W. Seekman. Assistant Dean for Fresh
men of C.I.T.; and numerous stu
dent leaders. The microphone 
will also be open to anyone else 
who may wish to address the ral
lyThe vigil is intended as an op
portunity for people to find out 
about the issues confronting the 
candidates and learn about the 
need for committment to free
dom and global peace. The stu
dents organizing the rally con
sider themselves committed to 
these ends and are reaffirming 
their committment. In voicing 
their cause, they hope that oth
ers will be persuaded to take their 
dedication to these ideals.
When asked what prompted 4 
the vigil, a spokesman replied 
that it was to make the campus 
realize that it is part of the com
munity. The university complete
ly insulates itself from the out
side and lives in its own little 
dream world. It is time this 
place realized its role and be
came a university, not a bunch of 
isolated trade schools.
Everyone is invited to display 
his concern over the election.
II you want the men in power to 
know you care, keep the Vigil 
Monday night.
