[he Tartan
VOLUME 68, No. 4Wednesday, October 9, 1968
A Report On The 
Student Food Committee
by Erica Borden
The administration has hit the students of CMU where it hurts 
the most - in the stomach and in the pocket. The intensity of the pain 
was demonstrated by about 125 angry students at a special open meet
ing of the Student Food Committee, Tuesday, October 1.
The meeting was opened by the President of Student Government, 
Ron Haan, who stated that he would act as temporary co-chairman of 
the food service committee with Gloria Treppel. He further explained 
that the 1968-1969 chairman was forced to resign for academic reasons. 
He expects to chair the committee for a month and then hopes to 
find someone to act as permanent chairman.
When asked what the food service committee does and how much 
of an influence it actually has on administration policy, Ron answered 
that the committee has a fifty-fifty say on management decisions con
cerning all aspects of food service, from menu planning to the present 
dining hall procedure. He added that most of the recommendations 
of the committee were accepted.
Before opening the floor to a question and answer period, Ron 
gave the background of the present policy. Last year the main dining 
room was open to everyone. It was possible to eat there if you had a 
contract card and desired unlimited seconds. It was also possible to 
sit in the dining room and eat nothing or eat a la carte. As a result of 
the unlimited seconds for those on contract, people began to obtain 
food for their friends not on contract. By the end of the year, this 
practice had become widespread and the food service incurred a defi
cit of $50,000. According to an auditor, this loss was a direct result of 
the practice of cheating.
Obviously, the school could not afford to compound the deficit 
this year. Three alternatives were mentioned as solutions to the prob
lem. First, they could discontinue the practice of seconds for stu
dents on contract. This would, of course, eliminate cheating. Or it 
would have been possible, as a second alternative, to increase the price 
of food to cover the cost of the food which was given away. This 
would have required an increase in contract price per year from the 
present $520 to $735. The food service committee and the food service 
management decided to adopt a third system which would preserve 
the system of seconds yet would eliminate the food waste
Therefore, the present system 
was devised and an additional 
snack facility was provided in 
the former staff dining room.
Complaints have now been raised 
that students who want to eat 
with their friends but dont de
sire to pay the full price of a 
meal or want nothing to eat at 
all, are unable to. As one student 
exclaimed, Now there is an ad
missions price to the most impor
tant meeting place on campus.
The floor was then opened to 
comments, questions, complaints 
and suggestions for possible solu
tions. Of course, complaints came 
first. Among them were such 
questions as, Why are ytrn (the 
administration representatives,
Mr. Stewart and Mr. Bucko) 
penalizing everyone because a 
few cheat? And If your sec
onds are your food, does it matter 
what you do with it? Or I 
had ham five times the first week 
of school, and I hate meatloaf.
Complaints were also made about 
inefficient service, the lengths of 
the lines into the dining hall, and 
the discrepancy between what 
is on the menu and what is ac
tually served. Im not hungry 
and 4:30, but I dont want to eat 
slop at 6:30 either. In answer to 
a complaint about the $26,000 
spent on new dining furniture,
Mr. Stewart answered that the 
money came from a special fund 
set aside for such replacements.
Suggestions were then made 
to remedy this situation. One 
well-thought of plan entitled 
Some questions and One ans
wer was mimeographed and 
handed to all those present. After 
listing the advantages Skibo has 
over commercial restaurants 
i.e., a fixed market of known 
size, a limited, limited hours of
operation...............the questions
are raised Why are prices so
(Continued on Page 7)
Sophomore Hrs. 
Abolished
On September 30 of this year, 
a petition for no hours was ap
proved by the Association of 
Women Students and the Admin
istration. The new policy is ef
fective immediately upon obtain
ing parental permission and the 
endorsement of Dean Milligan.
According to Virginia B. Milli
gan, Dean of Women, no hours 
was considered by the administra
tion last year when permission 
for sophomore women was grant
ed. Because of the lateness in the 
year, however, the motion was 
passed over. The movement was 
restarted by a few sophomore stu
dents and backed by the entire 
class. The intelligent and respon
sive manner with which the peti
tion was supported and presented 
gained the admiration of the ad
ministration. Dean Milligan re
marked that the project was very 
well handled and she encourages 
more students to channel their 
opinions and desires in the same 
manner.
The Association of Women Stu
dents was also impressed by the 
petition. Patricia Bowman com
mented, As president of A.W.S., 
Im very pleased with the response 
of both the students and adminis
tration with the proposal of no 
hours for sophomore women and 
I personally compliment and con
gratulate the women for their 
manner of proposal and the 
prompt response of the adminis
tration.
Of course, the parents are still 
a determining factor in this pro
posal. No sophomore can be 
granted no hours without written 
parental permission. All in all, 
this petition has served several 
purposes.
Supershow Highlights 4 Day Homecoming
. . . here come the Fudge!
On October 17, 18, and 19th Camegie-Mellon University will be where it is happening. 
What will be happening? Homecoming! In fact so many things are going to happen at this 
years homecoming that it will be a three day event instead of two. There are some new additions 
and the old ones are even better than ever. Homecoming always has a concert. That isnt new but 
certainly isnt anything old about the Vanilla Fudge and Magnificent Men. The Fudge will sing 
their great song You Keep Me Hanging On and the Magnificent Men will sing their own ar
rangements of such hits as By The Time I Get To Phoenix and bring back old memories with 
imitations of the Temptations and the Four Tops. Both groups will surround you with great stage 
performances, make you feel that they are everywhere, and bring you to your feet because you 
just cant stay in your seat any longer. From the Vanilla Fudge the audience will hear the latest 
sound in popular music, acid rock and psychedelic, performed at its best by the best. From the 
Magnificent Men they will hear the sound that never grows old, the sound of soul. It makes its
listeners sing, it makes its lis
teners move, it makes its listen
ers feel. Anyone who digs the 
latest in music or doesnt have a 
hole in his soul, or both, cant miss 
this great evening of entertain
ment.
Dont relax yet because this 
blast has just started! Friday 
night will be the newest of all. 
The Jaggerz. Pittsburghs num
ber one singing group and ra
pidly becoming one of the na
tions best, will perform at a 
big dance in the Gymnasium. 
Work out to the great Jaggerz 
sound, then relax to their new 
hit Baby I Love You, it's slow, 
its soft, itll turn you on. The 
Jaggerz dance could be the big
gest this campus has ever seen, 
and everyone will be there soak
ing up those great sounds.
After the Tartans win the Home
coming Game against Allegheny 
there will be a celebration in 
Skibo. Leading the festivities 
will be the Racket Squad, former
ly the Fenways. Theyve just 
cut a record and youll hear it in 
person on Saturday afternoon. 
So dont miss it.
On Saturday night it will be 
time to relax in a cozy nightclub 
atmosphere. Relax, that is, if it 
can be done to the uproarous hu
mor of Fred Smoot. Who is Fred 
Smoot? He is new and his style 
is new, too. If you havent seen 
him in The Wackiest Ship in 
the Army and appreciate his 
comedy already, then we sug
gest that you take the word of 
Variety Magazine who claims 
that He is not only going to 
make it, he should make it big. 
Fred Smoot has been a hit on col
lege campuses all across the coun
try with his routines about the 
Old West and Carnegie will cer
tainly not be an exception.
But Fred Smoot will not be all 
on Saturday night. There will 
also be the Grimm Brothers who 
will appear both Friday and Sat
urday. They will entertain you 
by creating comical traps and 
letting one of the unfortunate 
brothers fall into it. With a clever 
ad lib humor and a washtub bass 
in the act, they keep the audience 
puzzled and entertained. The 
final big act on Saturday night 
will be Benny Bennack and his 
dance band. Hell provide the 
big band sounds that you can re
lax by and give you a pleasant 
change of pace
And on Sunday? No, there 
isnt anything on Sunday. But 
what else is there?
The Vanilla Fudge
Theadmi Tnshddi
trmhodnrufr Cfshmf
by Jamie Edlin
Under the chairmanship of Dr. 
Sergio DeBenedetti, a Faculty 
Senate has been organized on 
the Carnegie-Mellon campus. 
Plans for this new innovation 
were begun last spring. There 
has never existed before any type 
of faculty government on cam
pus. Previously, all opinions and 
projects were voiced in a series 
of individual faculty meetings. 
The administration and trustees 
have dealt with major and minor 
issues concerning the programs of 
the institution.
With the establishment of a 
university there must be more 
inter-action on campus between 
the students, faculty, and admin
istration. There are many changes 
to undergo, new programs and 
ideas to discuss. Various courses 
and plans of study are being in
troduced into the departments; 
novel programs, policies, and 
other innovations are taking form. 
It was realized that there was a 
definite need for a stronger and 
more effective form of faculty 
participation in school affairs. 
With the construction of the 
Faculty Senate the teaching staff 
will share the responsibilities with 
the Administration.
Elections were held within 
every department to secure equal 
representation of senators. Thus, 
all delegates represent given con
stituencies. Several of the mem
bers were appointed by Presi
dent Stever. The thirty or forty 
participants wrote up a constitu
tion and began discussion of the 
bodys purposes.
After only one meeting there 
are no absolute goals or objec
tives set. With many decisions to 
make and numerous subjects of 
interest, the Senate will partake 
in giving direction to the affairs 
of the various departments, estab
lishments organized by students, 
administrative resolutions, pub
lic concerns, and other develop
ments affecting C.M.U. The fac
ulty will form a counter-part to 
the administration and trustees 
will hold power in steering cam
pus activity. Many of the items 
of business introduced at the 
meetings will be referred to the 
agenda of individual councils.
As explained by Dr. DeBene
detti, an underlying intension 
of the Senate is to promote more 
inter-action and better communiContinued on Page 7)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANWednesday, October 9, 1968
Editorial
Amateur Night At The Oscars a Proposal For
We feel that in view of the happenings of the last week 
recognition is due to a number of people on innumerable counts. 
Space prohibits mentioning every deserving party; here follows 
a list of the most noteworthy;
The Dwight D. Eisenhower Practical Politics Award goes 
to George Wallace, who picks Pittsburgh, nerve center of the 
western-middle-eastern seaboard, to announce his vice-presidential running-mate. General LeMay, in addition to attract
ing the vote of the hawks, has reportedly received strong back
ing from the International Brotherhood of Nuclear Weapons 
Technicians and several science fiction film makers who wish 
the rights to a possible movie along the lines of the classic The 
Day They Fried Chicago. We have attempted to verify this ru
mor, but our source, being a fun-loving fellow, could not be 
reached. He was bombed.
The Forgotten Marshmallow Award goes to the upperclass
men, who at last Fridays bonfire rally reached a new plane of 
mediocrity by perfecting the Silent Cheer.
The Spirit Trophy of 1966 Memorial Award goes to Tau 
Delta Phi. They recalled some of the rousing enthusiasm of 
yesteryear with their banner TDP Says . . . Good try guys.
After all, it aint what ya say, its the
The Which Leg used the Razor Trophy to the Freshman 
Chirleedurs. Theyre u-uglee-ee; but they sure can yell.
Three Cheers for the Campus Activists, who have insti
tuted two organizations and formed a committee, and are cur
rently considering co-ordinating their efforts and may even 
form coherent program. If they can get to the few upperclass
men who are not yet effected by C-MU novocaine, guaranteed 
to numb any student, and to the frosh who havent discovered 
it yet, there may be some hope left for this campus.
The Waiter, Theres a Thumb in my Soup Plastic Med
allion to Food Service, who may yet discover that the customer 
is often right.
The Semper Incredulis Award to the Food Service for its 
continuing efforts to inform the eating public of the status of 
Skibo cafeteria. We are attempting to decipher the ceaseless 
stream of information on Food Service losses and policies. If 
we find out whats happening, well let you know.
The Structure Most Likely to Recede Accolade to Skibo 
for everything, but mostly for nobodys being able to even wash 
his hands before eating unless the weather permits a short hike 
around campus and through the building from the Unlimited 
Seconds Line.
Finally, the Why Is This Man Smiling Award to Laugh
ing Andy Gromeyko for keeping a straight face.
the Tartan
Dave Kamons 
Theadmienistero
ufnfCenC Theadm......................................................Mike Cramer
MUwenrww ufnfCrm................................................Jim Neumeister
-rwc Theadm.............................................................Nancy Madsen
prkw Theadm.............................................................Jenifer Digby
.wwewafna yrkw Theadm...........................................Bill McClosky
pdmaw Theadm..................................................................Alan Letzt
.wwewafna pdmaw Theadm............................................Larry Brean
tdadCmftb Theadmw.............................................Gordon Morris
Bill Pence
1d2f5 .hgrmaewenC ufnfCrm..........................David Ballantine
yfaednf5 .hgrmaewenC ufnfCrmw...................................Judy Gadol
iNancy Gadol
1fbdUa Theadm........................................................E]len iissman
pr2mrafmef5 Theadm.......................................................Elsie Mooney
sem2U5faedn ufnfCrmw...............................................Rachel Katzen
Bob Porter
yrkw pafool Erica Borden, Devy Cassell, Susan Jacobi, Peg
gy Laurash, Patricia McDonald, Cheryl McMahon, 
Sharon Peruzzi, Suzi Stockton
tdadCmftb pafool Larry Friedman, Dave Rosenberg, Jerry 
Siskind, Joe Tyler, Eric Werme, Art Werschulz
pr2mrafmef5 pafool Phyllis Book, Sue Cattano, Andrea Cianello, Bobbette Linder, Andrea Mintz, Karen Schaffer, Ka
thy Sloss
pdmaw pafool Andrew Ellis, Greg Morris, Don Baer, Frank 
Sacco, Michael Budden, Jim Janke, Dave Vimish, Mike 
Smolens
Food Service
Several factors have influenced 
my decision to become an advo
cate of change in the present food 
service system. I should like to 
delineate them here and propose 
a change.
1. Cost and Quality: Food ser
vice can do a better job on both 
of these points; twelve fraterni
ties on this campus prove this 
by serving better meals at less 
(or the same) cost than either 
the cafeteria or the snack bar. 
(I actually, can speak authoritiatively only for the period 1962- 
1965 when I was steward of Delta 
Upsilon. Inquiries at this time, 
although sketchy, have given me 
no evidence that this has chang
ed.) Please note that the fraterni
ties do not have the extra lever
age of high volume buying or low 
($1.40 per hour!) labor cost. My test 
shopping in the Skibo cafeteria 
reveals a tendency to meals that 
are greasy and starchy, (meats 
smothered in oily sauces and/or 
chicken; potatoes, noodles, etc. 
etc.) The quality of lettuce is 
low and I have been informed 
that there is a chance of finding 
fingers in the salads. Note that 
this is also an economic lever; 
diet-conscious contract diners 
(including about 800 women) 
would tend to go easy on such 
items. Note also that this is not 
in the general health interests 
of the consumers. I have detailed 
other economic advantages 
which Skibo has and fails to use 
in a previous communication to 
the Food Service Committee on 
1 October.
2. Administrative Errors: Mr.
Stewart claims that Food Service 
lost $40,000 last semester; he at
tributes this to cheating. I of
fer another explanation. At the 
beginning of the spring semester 
of last year, rising food costs dic
tated that prices be raised. This 
was done only for the a la carte 
line. Figures quoted in the Tartan 
(February 7, p. 18) indicate that 
this amounted to something like 
$.40 per item. Thus, if the rise 
in prices was truly justified, then 
the school should have lost:
$.40/ day x 105 days semester 
x 1300 contract diners equals 
$54,600. Now, if we subtract a 
25 per cent missed meal factor 
$13,400), lo and behold, we have a 
loss of $41,200. Further, we must 
note that there were never un
limited seconds in the Skibo cafe
teria. Rather, each contract diner 
was allowed to go back through 
the line once. On this score, Food 
Service (which claims that un
limited seconds were the rule) 
stands out as bald-faced liars. 
Now, let us assume that cheat
ing was indeed rampant at about 
20 per cent of the contract diners, 
every day. This is giving Mr.
Stewart a lot, since he states that 
only 14 per cent of the people 
ever went back for seconds. To 
continue, we must assume that 
cheating only affects raw food 
costs, since labor and other
over head costs must be incurred 
regardless of cheating. As an esti
mate of such raw-food costs per 
student per day, we must use the 
figure of $1.20; this is three times 
what students who missed a days 
lunch for the Martin Luther King 
Scholarship Fund were given in 
rebate. Therefore, the loss due 
to cheating should have been:
.30 cheating factor x 600 din
ers x $1.20 x 150 days equals
$22,680. Note that this figure is 
based on these absurd assump
tions:
A. 20 percent of the Skibo din
ers (Morewood was on a fixed 
meal plan) cheated every day.
B. The cheaters ate the equiva
lent of a full meal.
For the sake of further argumenta
tion, let us absolve Food Service 
on the above counts and look at 
physical space. The present cafe
teria system (as of 3 October) 
forces a large number of former 
a la carte diners out of the lar
gest dining facility and into the 
smallest ones (the former staff 
cafeteria and the snack bar). On 
the surface, this maneuver has 
compounded inefficiency. Now, 
we must realize that all of these 
arguments rest upon the estima
tion of certain key figures. I 
shall not be able to state anything 
with certainty until Mr. Stewart 
lets me look at his books and ex
haustive test-shopping is done. 
Lest Mr. Stewart accuse me of 
ignorance in accounting I have 
retained a Certified Public Ac
countant to aid me in this mat
ter.
3. Community Breakdown: The
present cafeteria system effec
tively segregates part-meal buy
ers from whole-meat buyers. It 
has its most disastrous effect on 
the College Fine Arts, whose 
students used the cafeteria as a 
meeting place, since many of 
them live off campus. If, for no 
other reason, the present system 
should be abolished to preserve 
this most natural and effective 
student communications center. 
In edgy times like these, break
downs in communication can 
benefit no one, except insulated 
managers seeking simplistic 
authoritarian solutions to (non
existent?) problems.
Two Concrete Proposals: Al
though the problem is not mine, 
dissent bears a certain responsi
bility to offer alternatives. I give 
two.
1. If cheating costs us $40,000 
last year, then divide that by 
1300 contract people (equals 
$30) and add that to the contract 
price. New cost: ($520 plus 30 
equals) $550 and not the $735 re
ported by Mr. Stewart. The 
credibility gap widens.
Better Yet
2. As stated before, the most 
effective solution to the prob
lem for the most people is to 
take the burden off the consu
mer and place it back on manage
ment by placing the Skibo cafe
teria on the freemarket:
a. Quality will improve or 
students will buy elsewhere.
b. Cheating will effectively 
disappear.
c. Management can estimate 
their market by selling tickets 
worth a fixed dollar or unit 
amount.
d. Heavy eaters will cease to 
be subsidized by light eaters.
Now:
If food service resists this plan, 
are they tacitly assuming that 
the free enterprise system is 
unworkable? If present manage
ment is unable to cope with this 
system, then perhaps the Ultimate 
Solution is to hire a restauranteur 
rather than a Food Service Man
ager.
Sincerely,
Frank Morra, Jr.
Consumer
More Comments 
On Food Service
Editor, The Tartan:
After attending the recent 
open meeting of the Food Ser
vices Committee, and hearing 
rumors that students are now 
satisfied with the arrangements,
I think some comments are in 
order:
1) The temporary solution of 
using the former staff dining room
for a la carte service should re
main temporary; it is too easy 
for the Food Service people to 
throw us a bone and ignore the 
major problem.
2) If Mr. Stewarts assumptions 
about stealing, that is. that steal
ing food by feeding more than 
one person per card resulted in 
the $40,000 deficit, can be trusted, 
then it would appear that the 
system is being changed for the 
benefit of those who did the 
stealing. As a cash customer, my 
costs increase from about $2.25 
a day to $3.45 a day, if I eat at 
Skibo. Also, as a cash customer, 
I could not possibly have been 
guilty of stealing last year. Hence, 
I am being punished for the crimes 
of others, while the contract peo
ple still eat for just over $2.00 a 
day.
3) Given that contract customers 
are responsible for the deficit, 
why not raise the contract price 
to cover the deficit? We are told 
that this will cost over $150 per 
year, and yet 1200 students on 
contract times $35 per year 
should more than cover the defi
cit.
4) When I asked why a days 
food on contract costs $2.10 or 
so, while the same food on a cash 
basis is $3.45, I was told that the 
contract price includes a 25 per
cent absentee factor. Now 25 per
cent of $2.10 is about 55 cents, so 
shouldnt the cash cost be about 
$2.60 per day?
5) Mr. Stewart was unable to 
explain why Soup and Sandwich, 
a restaurant operated for profit, 
can serve a large and tasty break
fast for 55 cents (eggs, bacon, 
potatoes, toast, coffee), while I 
must pay 70 cents at Skibo to eat 
some strange tasting eggs, dried 
up bacon (with luck-meat is not 
served every day), and juice. 
True, I have unlimited returns, 
but its hard enough to swallow 
the first serving.
Further, the Central Restau
rant, a very nondescript place on 
Craig, serves huge meals, many 
courses, etc., of food that is con
siderably better than at Skibo 
for less money. How can this be?
6) Finally, I still fail to see why 
a better system cannot be devised 
perhaps a punch card, with a dis
count offered to contract people. 
Or eliminate seconds completely, 
and have people pay for what 
they eat, but dont force me to 
pay for someone elses food.
Jeff Begun 
Grad, Psychology
Unfair Coverage of 
Morewood Serenade
Editor, The Tartan:
Your coverage of the biggest 
event at C-MU this year, the 
Frosh mens seranade at Morewood, was a gross misrepresenta
tion of the high moral fiber of 
the Class of 72, and a highly in
accurate report of the news. The 
Tartan found this expertly organ
ized (by eight persons unknown, 
who were primarily from Scobell 
Hall) activity to be worthy of 
one misleading picture and an 
eleven word, incomplete cap
tion.
The photograph, supposedly 
representative of our serenade, 
was of an overly excited student, 
not even positively identified as 
a Frosh, attempting to conquer 
B or D tower. One gets the im
pression that the main purpose 
of our serenade was other than 
the entertainment of the More 
wood residents. This incident in 
the photograph was of an excep
tional and misrepresentative ac
tion. It should have, in all fair
ness. been accompanied by pic(Continued on Page 6)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 9, 1968THE TARTANPage 3
Volume 1, No. 2October 9, 1968
tr gerkw rSmrwwrh en Broadside fmr nda nr2rwwfme5b atdwr tr5h Fb atr 
Tartan, sfmnrCeriur55dn ,negrmweab, dm atr waUhrna Fdhb en reatrm UF5ewtrh 
dm Undooe2ef5 wafarOrnawP tr fUatdmw fmr wd5r5b mrwdnweF5r odm atr Ofarmef5 
mrwrnarh en Broadside.
INCITE TO ACTION
The Course of C-MU
Academic institutions exist for the transmission of knowledge, the develop
ment of individuals, and the betterment of the world we live in. These acti
vities rest on the students freedom to learn. This statement is to enumerate the 
essential provisions for the exercise of this freedom.
TMttUw- wT cpptCC
Under no circumstances should a student be barred from admission to this 
university because of race, creed, or environmental background. Therefore, the 
existing admissions criteria must be expaned to include a personal interview 
with each prospective student by a qualified admissions staff. Students from social 
economic, or culturally deficient backgrounds should be given a seperate 
evaluation, admitted on a trial basis with provisions for adequate, formalized 
compensatory programs.
The facilities and services of the University must be open to all members of 
the academic community. Therefore, we ask that existing facilities, such as the 
Office of Student Affairs, the Bureau of Placements, Hunt Library, and Ski
bo, and their present student policies be re-evaluated and revised. Where this is 
not possible, new facilities must be constructed within the next 3 years and plans 
completed within the next year.
TMttUw- wT k.ykM c.U tb1MtCCkw.
Student performance in the classroom should be evaluated solely on the con
tent of the course. Therefore, we call for the establishment of a University Re
view Board to protect the student from prejudice or capricious evaluation. Also, 
for the undertaker of a comparative study of various grading systems and that an 
official, university-wide policy be released this academic year.
In conjunction with this study, a review of the present curriculum struc
ture is now needed. The quality and content of all existing courses must be 
analyzed, and in many cases changed. The possibility of the establishment of 
an all-college, five year enrichment program leading to a B.A. and the feasi
bility of a field study program must be investigated.
Likewise, the quality of undergraduate teaching must be examined. There
fore, we call for a campus-wide, University sponsored, teacher evaluation. And 
that such as evaluation become one of the official criteria for faculty tenure, 
promotion and pay increases.
Student and student organizations must be free to examine and discuss 
all questions of interest to them, and to express opinions publically and privately. 
The institutional control of facilities and or funding must not be used as a de
vice of censorship.
Likewise, publication and editorial staffs must be free from arbitrary sus
pension and removal because of student, faculty, administrative, or public dis
approval of content or policy.
Students must be afforded protection against the improper disclosure of aca
demic, or personal information. We therefore ask that the present C-MU policy 
in this area be made public and changed thusly ; that there be a separation of aca
demic and disciplinary records, that all material concerning the personal 
life of the student be destroyed upon his departure, and that any information 
needed for judgments of ability or character be made only with full knowledge 
and consent of the student.
TMttUw- wT cCCwpkc2kw.
Students must be free to organize or join associations of common interest, 
nevertheless, discrimination, be it de facto or de juro, on the basis of race, creed, 
national origin, sex, or social status, can no longer be tolerated. We ask for the 
publication of the present recognition policy, and the following be included as 
changes, that organizations be o,ly required to submit a statement of policy, 
the criteria for membership, and procedure rules for recognition and funding. 
These are to be placed in a permanent file. Also, that the list of officers be 
submitted for a temporary file.
Mk5g2C wT pk2klt.Cgk1
Students are citizens, and must be afforded citizens freedom of speech, 
peaceful assembly, and the right of petition. Rules and policies which effect the 
student must be published and distributed yearly. Moreover, we call for the ado
ption of a line of jurisprudence, such as would be afforded in any civil court, 
in all University courts, regardless of the offense. The adoption of such a stand
ard will also necessitate a review and overhauling of the existing campus court 
structures. Furthermore, students must no longer be subject to unreasonable 
search and seizure, regardless of the circumstances.
The student who directly and-or willfully incites violence or insists upon 
deliberately disrupting the work or movement of others must assume full re
sponsibility and resulting judgment. Likewise, the student who elects civil diso
bedience. When either method of dissent results in the violation of civil law 
the University should make available one consultive appointment with a pro
fessional legal counsel to enable the student to understand the dimension of his 
problem. Furthermore, no student should ever be subject to double jeapardy.
A position of equal participation of student, faculty, and administration 
must replace the antiquated in loco parentis position which this University 
now maintains. We therefore, call for a review and public assesment of all exsisting decision making bodies, from the Board of Trustees on down.
Too long has the University substituted empty words and unkept promises 
for action and change. Too long has the student mutely accepted such offer
ings. It is now the time to..........
hSfs Fff .,Soam
The Course of a Nation
Priorities has been the key word in this election campaign, so perhaps it is 
time that we evaluate the conditions and policies on which any priority struc
ture must be based. What indeed is in question is not just the priority listings 
of the Johnson Administration, but the entire series of traditions which have led 
us to the justification of the war in Vietnam and the ghettos in our cities. An 
examination of both our personal and national beliefs is in order, if we ever 
hope to re-arrange the tangled web of our current involvements and work them 
into benefit for both our nation and the world.
The sheer complexity of our urban areas today calls for the immediate reevaluation of both their internal operation and their multiple interconnection 
with other urban centers, as well as the rural areas which support their exis
tence. For any social organization is ordered not for its self perpetuation, but 
rather for the benefit of the individual members of the society. When the cry 
law and order becomes the justification for shooting looters, we have equate 
the value of the human life with the value of the merchandise a man can cfarry. We then place a very low value on a mans life when we consider the dignity 
life was extended in both the Declaration of Independence and The Bill of 
Rights. The Bill of Rights cannot be reduced to the pat phrase or the all-in
clusive law.
Our concerted efforts must now begin to relieve the poverty, the racism, 
and the violence which touch every part of our country and our world. For 
clearly the role of peace-keeping is not expressed in the suppressive manifesta
tions of military or police organization, but rather in the constructive allevia
tion of the causes which move individuals to disrupt and destroy their lives of 
others. Certainly we cannot fail to recognize that repression of prague and Chicage will only yield violence, the spirit of man will not be trampled whether he 
lives in the ghettos of America or the city of Prague. The mere operation of dem
ocracy for a few, will breed only vilence for all.
The time is past when we can rationalize, Well, if I did it, anyone can! 
We must provide now equal opportunity for all citizens regardless of the super
ficial criteria of race, creed, national origin, or draft classification. If in a 
country with a Gross National Produce rapidly approaching the trillion mark, 
we cannot even secure for every citizen a decent job with a livable income, 
good health care, a decent house and a high quality education. We will have fail
ed to meet even the minimal requirements of a civilization. Remember when you 
eat dinner this evening that in this abundant land alone 3 million people will 
go without a substantial nutritious meal.
Tne same motive which led a group of demonstrators to walk in front of the 
bayonette armed National Guard last April with posters,I am a man, must 
move us to work with each other. As the proximity and density of action in
creases everywhere, we cannot fail to recognize and respect the dignity of all 
Americans, and make ourselves a part.
However, a fever now grips both our nation and the nations of the world. 
In 1963, John F. Kennedy assessed the problem and the task when he said. 
Those who make peaceful revolution impossible, make violent revolution in
evitable. The time is quickly approaching when the faith which maintains 
peaceful revolution will have dissolved into the hate and destruction of a vio
lent revolution. But the problem is not restricted to the ghettos of our nation, 
for assassination has sacrificed the leaders who might have insured a peace
ful revolution. Abraham Lincoln declared, Among free men there can be no 
successful appeal from the bullet to the ballot. Such an appeal will only end 
in disaster for us all.
We are not just the persecuted. Our troops in South Viet Nam reinforce the 
jailing of an uncessful candidate for their presidency. In 1961, we challeng
ed the Russians to a peace race, but so far only a small handful of Americans 
treds and their violent expression can only be ended, when violence no longer 
provides the last and only recourse of action.
Through the Selective Service System, the FBI, the CIA, the Pentagon, 
we have allowed a fortress of administrative procedures to mandate the decis
ions and alternatives, overlooking even the basic needs of our society. Govern
ment can no longer be run by the mechanisms of procedureit must provide 
for the needs of all. In our comfort, we have forgotten that when the freedom 
of any man is diminished,so is the freedom of all.
What was evident on January 20, 1961, is now the pressing need of 1968. 
Where in the past we have made progress, we must not fear to continue, and in 
the present we must have the courage to amend our errors, for our belief of 
others in our capacity to reform is at stake. The basic issue is whether or not we 
we must find the strength not only to endure but to progress; we must see not 
only the sacrifice of others, but demand the same of ourselves. We must dare to 
do something for all, now Let us move forward together in accepting a chal
lenge that truly determines all future.
Our priority is mankind.
Bertram Robert Cottine

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANWednesday, October 9, 1968
*09COMPUTERIZED
DATING
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. 
FOR FREE BROCHURE,
WRITE*
DATAMATIC 
P. O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
19213
The
New
Bristol
TheeadminaesO Thttarnooo
For Fall 1968: Sero offers a choice of two 
of Americas most celebrated campus collar 
models  the Purist button-down and the 
new, distinctive Bristol. Deftly tailored  
with trimly tapered body lines  in a host 
of handsome solid colourings, stripings and 
checks, many exclusive with Sero. Both 
models come in fine-combed 100% cotton or 
durable press.
HERRINGBONE, Etc. / LONDON DOCK
5842 FORBES AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Copyright by Sero of Ne M en, l*c. 1964
Drafting for CCC 
Now in Progress
Join in and obse5ve the only 
confrontation between BLACK 
and WHITE POWER GROUPS 
on campus.
Join the only organization which 
gives you the opportunity to CON
TROL AN ARMY.
Join the only gang where you 
will be PRAISED FOR BEAT
ING PROFESSORS AND STU
DENTS.
Where else but in the CarnegieMellon Chess Club can faculty 
and students be on equal terms?
The only pre-requisites to join 
are an interest in chess and a 
clear and logical mind.
A tournament scheduled for 
early November will be used to 
determine the standings and 
ratings of chess players at CMU. 
From these standings a team will 
compete in inter-collegiate play.
Sets will be made available so 
that members will be able to en
joy a game of chess between 
classes, at lunch time, or in the 
evening.
The first meeting will be on 
Sunday, October 13, at 4:00 P.M. 
in Skibo Room 56. If you have 
any further questions contact 
Marcel Weiner at 361-0846.
FOR SALE: 1965 HONDA, 50cc, Basket. 
Completely dependable. $150. 239 Bak
er Hall.
FOR SALE: HONDA 150, Excellent con
dition, low mileage. Electric Start. Black 
and Beautiful. 421-5725.
YOUNG CAT, Sprayed  Innoculated. 
Wants reliable home. Mrs. More, 683- 
7851 evenings.
HONDA 50Red, Electric Starter, Lug
gage rack; excellent condition, $145. 
Call Don, 441-9644.
coooooooooooooo:
THE YEARS FIRST
INTERNATIONAL FIRESIDE 
Sunday: October 13 
7:30-10:00 P.M.
At the home of Dr. J.
Richard Hayesj Sign up 
at Y office, Room 57
Skibo before noon, Friday 
OOOOGOOOOOOO
See Europe and 
Qet Paid
American Student Information 
Service, Grand Duchy of Luxem
bourg, serving the North Ameri
can student for over a decade, 
offers you an opportunity to get 
a paying job, study at a univer
sity and see Europe.
This unique Program offers you 
the once in a lifetime opportu
nity to meet different people, 
see a different culture, see new 
places, and get paid for doing 
it...ASIS is a private, non-political, non sectarian, government 
approved organization guarantee
ing you on-the-spot help from 
their offices, throughout Europe, 
during your sojourn.
You may select from their 
large selection of paying jobs in 
15 countries, study at a famous 
university and tour Europe.
Write for their handbook list
ing jobs, tours, studying abroad 
and other valuable information 
to: Dept. I, ASIS 22 Avenue 
de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
Please enclose $2 for over
seas handling, air mail reply 
and applications for a job and 
studying.
HAVING TROUBLE GETTING YOUR HAIR 
CUT THE WAY YOU WANT IT?
WE DON'T GUARANTEE TO PLEASE EVERYONE 
BUT WE SURE WILL TRY!
CAMPUS BARBER SHOP
MARGARET-MORRISON AT FORBES
HOURS: 8:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. TUES. THRU SAT.
' ^ - -  
Medical Plan 
Cutoff-Date
All students are informed that 
October 15, 1968. will be the cut
off date for enrollment or cancel
lation of participation in the Stu
dent Medical Plan. After that 
date no new enrollments will be 
accepted nor may policies be can
celled by students or their par
ents.
A number of students did not 
make payment for the Student 
Medical Plan in remitting fees 
to the Cashiers Office and nei
ther did they sign the waivers 
indicating they did not wish to 
purchase the insurance. The 
Cashiers Office will make indi
vidual contacts with these stu
dents to make certain their de
sires as to coverage. Under ex
isting procedures if the student 
returns his bill without payment 
and without signing the waiver, 
the student will be charged for 
the insurance. Thus, it is neces
sary that the university have a 
waiver signed in any instance 
where the student or his parents 
do not wish to purchase the insur
ance protection.
If you have any questions re
garding your participation in 
the Student Medical Plan you 
should see Mr. G. E. Gere' in the 
Controlled Office, Warner Hall 
413.
BREAD  A tasteless paste con
sisting of flour, water, and le
thal chemicals which are added 
after nutrients have been arti
ficially removed; the staff of 
life.
Jim Sutton, 1968
INDIA
CHRISTMAS 1968 
Group Flight at 
Reduced Rate
A Group Flight for One Month 
leaving New York on Decem
ber 19, 1968 for Bombay (In
dia) has been arranged by the 
Indian Cultural Association.
Interested members should 
write immediately for further 
information.
Indian Cultural Association 
3105 W. 2nd Street 
Wilmington, Delaware 19805
CANDID EROTICISM IN 
IMPECCABLE TASTE!
...from the actual moment of dconception to the birth of the % baby... For the first time- the intimate story of a young girl.
RINCO PRODUCTIONS 
CAMMERER FILMS
present
AN c-tMkpc. k.2tM.c2kw.cF
[ RELEASE"COLOR n PtRFECTHiHelaa
Lwwv
<25>------1TRUE! STARTLING!! IMA FftCTS-OF-llFE FEATUftETTE
J
RUGS
Profit by CHASE'S buying power
Over 1000 New 9x12s
$15 $20 $29 $39 $49
abo 6x9s, 9x15s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 12x18s, etc.
yd Fraarm wr5r2aedn fnbktrmrG
FURNITURE
Save 40% at CHASE'S associated wholesale showrooms, 
close by our rug outlet.
CHASES
5432 WALNUT STREET 
SHADYSIDE
Next to Shadyside Post Office; across 
from the Casbah, 3 doors from the Gazebo. 
Enjoy Shadyside!
Open ewocy day 10 A.M. to u P.M. (Saturday till 5 PJHLJ

---------------------------------------------------

Free University 
Classes Begin
Classes in the Pittsburgh Free 
University begin meeting this 
week and will continue to meet 
through the month of November.
One of the courses, History 
of Films, taught by Professor 
Eugene McCreary of the history 
department, will be held on the 
CMU campus in the GSIA Auditor
ium. History of Films will 
meet at 8 p.m. on Monday, Octo
ber 14, and will continue to meet 
each Monday evening through 
November 18. Eisensteins Po
temkin and Griffiths Birth 
of a Nation will be featured, 
along with films by Lumiere, 
Rene Clair, and John Ford. The 
course is open to everyone, but 
a laboratory fee will be charged to 
cover expenses.
Other Free University cours
es include the following:
Mondays (beginning Oct. 14)
 Selective Service Law  
Theory and Practice, 7:30 
p.m., Friends Meeting House, 
4836 Ellsworth Avenue; Pho
tography for Beginners, Inter
mediate, and Advanced, 7 
p.m., Medical Illustration Lab, 
10th floor, Scaife Hall, Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
Tuesdays (beginning Oct. 15) 
 Ethics and Human Behav
ior, 4 p.m., Lutheran Univer
sity Center, 4515 Forbes Ave
nue; Human Sexuality, 8 
p.m., University and City Min
istries (UACM) Center, Fifth 
and Bellefield Avenues; Marx
ism: Fundamentals of a Revo
lutionary Outlook, 8 p.m.,
UACM Center; The Two Cul
tures: the Sciences and the Hu
manities, 8 p.m. UACM Cen
ter.
Wednesdays (beginning tonight, 
Oct. 9) The New Left, Anarch
ism, and Economics, 8 p.m., 
UACM Center; Secular Evo
lutionary Humanism, 8 p.m., 
UACM Center; Guerilla The
atre, 8 p.m., UACM Center; 
Creative Problem Solving, 
7:30 p.m., UACM Center.
Thursdays (beginning Oct. 10) 
Black History, 8:30 p.m., 
UACM Center; Intentional 
Cooperative Community and 
H Group Living, 7:30 p. m., 
UACM Center; Meaningless
ness, 8 p.m., UACM Center.
Fridays (beginning Oct. 18) Civ
il Liberties Under Attack, 8 
p.m., UACM Center; 
il Li berties Under Attack, 
8 p.m., UACM Center; The 
Free University Speakeasy, 
8 p.m., UACM Center.
A course in Film Making 
is also scheduled to begin soon. 
No time and place have been es
tablished, but interested persons 
can contact Frank Jones at 361- 
5622 or Lowell Haynes at 682- 
1824.
Further information about the 
Free University is available in 
the YM-YWCA office, 57 Skibo, 
or by writing to the Pittsburgh 
Free University, P. O. Box 7165, 
Pittsburgh 15213.
Wednesday, Oct. 9, 1968THE TARTAN-Page 5
MEETING ANNOUNCEMENT 
Student Food Management 
Council 
Wednesday. October 9, 1968 
5:00P.M.
Rooms 105-106 Skibo
COLLEGE STUDENTS 
POETRY ANTHOLOGY 
THE NATIONAL 
POETRY PRESS 
ANNOUNCES 
The closing date for the sub
mission of manuscripts by Col
lege Students is November 5. 
Any student attending either jun
ior or senior college is eligible 
to submit his verse. There is no 
limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are referred by 
the Board of Judges, because of 
space limitations.
Each poem must be TYPED 
or PRINTED on a separate 
sheet, and must bear the 
NAME and HOME ADDRESS 
of the student, and the COL
LEGE ADDRESS well.
Manuscripts should be sent 
to the OFFICE OF THE PRESS 
NATIONAL POETRY PRESS 
3210 Selby Avenue 
Los Angeles 34, California
How They Voted 
In Student Senate
Record votes for the Student 
Senate Meeting of October 3, 
1968.
That a five (5) dollar activi
ties fee be assessed to all under
graduate students on their bill 
for the Spring, 1969 semester.
(Passed, 16-0)
That the cheerleaders be giv
en $300 to subsidize busses for 
away football games.
(Passed, 16-0)
That Barry Stapsky be award
ed the fifth commuter seat in 
Senate which was a three-way tie 
in last Mays election.
(Passed 15-0)
Not voting: Joe Duckworth (F)
That the following motion con
cerning Room 36, Skibo, be 
amended to read with priority to 
be given to recognized student ac
tivities.
(Passed 10-8)
For: Benthal (F), Brezny
(M), Dechter (M), Dillon (F), 
Duckworth (F), Farmer (F), 
Alternate for Jones (W), Alter
nate for Letki (F), Meisner (C), 
and Plaks ( W).
Against: Abrams (S), Dengrove (W), Glaser (M), Murray 
(F), Sapet (S), Shore (W), Vo 
(F), Sapet (S), Shore (W), Vo
gel (C), and Stapsky (C).
That Room 36 Skibo, be convert
ed into an organization room 
with priority to be given to recog
nized student activities.
(Passed 17-0)
Not voting: Dillon (F).
That no outside organization be 
permitted to reserve more than 
five (5) rooms in Skibo on any 
one day.
(Passed, 17-0)
That it be requested of the Li
brary to remain open until 3:00 
A.M. Sunday thru Thursday eve
nings and that it open at noon on 
Sundays.
(Passed 18-0)
Is your representative voting 
the way you want him to vote? 
Why not let him know? See your 
senator today!
Tech
Christian.
Fellowship
Tech Christian Fellowship. 
Hymns For Now: Songs for
Good, Bad, and Rotten Times 
Folk Singing and discussion, 
Wherrett Room, Skibo, 7 P.M.
Tech Christian Fellowship. 
Anyone interested in information 
about the inter-varsity Christian 
Fellowship fall conference at Sen
eca Hills, Pa., October 25 - 27 
please contact Dale Partin in Room 
please contact Dale Partin in 
Room 110 Boss or by campus mail 
- Box 630. Topic of the confer
ence is You and Your Church.
Any student who has been giv
en a work-study job as part of 
his financial aid award, and 
who has not as yet received his 
job assignment, please contact 
the financial aid office, 214 War
ner Hall for an appointment with 
Miss Campbell as soon as pos
sible.
TYPING
SERVICE
?
Able to handle any typing 
requirements from complex 
marked or corrected copy. 
Neat accurate and depend
able work. 731-1915 evonings or weekends.
COMFORTfor CONTACT LENS WEARERS
are you getting the most 
from your present 
wetting solution?
TRY
at our 
expense and 
FEEL THE DIFFERENCE!
FREE SAMPLES
and brochure at
NO OBLIGATION
Send coupon below
f MI-CON LABORATORIES, INC.
I 520 Bonner Road
NAMEI
I Wauconda, Illinois 60084
ILI ADDRESS
CITY
STATE _ ZIP^ __ I
Brother LOVE Cares... 
Brother Love & Porky Chedwick 
Play Underground Music 
4 p.m. till 11 p.m.
   O N *  
WAMO F.M.
106
JOIN THE UNDERGROUND
"Kubrick's special effects border on the 
miraculousa quantum leap in quality 
over any other science fiction film evermade!" Newsweek Magazine
2001a space odyssey
SUPER PANAVISION*CIMRAiMftMETROCOLOft
6)AFFftC KEIR DULLEA  GARY LOCKWOOD 
MfEHJuv T) S-OlEUN ewskMae Atg Ok-zwk ai aEOken 
PRRVI*RAtR gfPI)fRKD S-OlEUN ewskMae
RESEKVED SEAT PERFORMANCES AND PRICES
MON. THROUGH THURS. EVENINGSORCHESTRA AND LOGE.................2.50BALCONY................ ..........$2.00 and 1.75
FRI., SAT., SUN. AND HOLI EVESORCHESTRA AND LOGE .............. 3.00.............$2.50BALCONY.
MATINEE-WEDNESDAYORCHESTRA AND LOGE............ $2 0BALCONY................ ..........$1.75 and 1.50
MATINEESSAT., SUN., HOL. 
ORCHESTRA AND LOGE....... $2.5*1.75and 2 00 BALCONY................................$2.00 and
EVES, at 8:30 (SUN. at 8 P. M.) MATS. WED. LO-i Swli zEi G Yi Wi
For special attention to theatre parties and student (roups, tall Phyllis Cohen (412) 471-7402. 
Tickets available at Gimbels, Mellon Square; Horne's, Gateway Center: 
Kaufmann's, Downtown; all Pittsburgh National Bank Offices; Sean 
Roebuck Stores; National Record Martt; or any Stanley Warner Theatre.
AirConditionedTartnr NATHEATRE
336Sth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.471-7400
^siwoy^iD
.22rna keat READ-THRU COLOR 
fnh oenh mrormrn2rw fa f C5fn2r
FOR BOOKS, REPORTS, CLASSROOM NOTES
CjjO Accent4
| ^ agftf&Afesi - jj]
Major Accent
C-MU BOOK STORE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANWednesday, October 9, 1968
Ovw cBunuelk Masterpiece
kM.MhMMm Mil ti m. fmK* k**~r
tMm wa  ju* soi  *, okit * unnw mu  d.cm * LUIS BUWJfL
>*mt lOWS MNUU mi JU* CtWOC Ctttttt  EASTIIANCOIOR  Mu* * tUKD MISTS - SNA
NOW 
SHOWING 
EXCITING 
WEEKIftCSHADYSIDEEXCITIN8______________________
WEEK
ply ymyi bd| y"H inner prindple
(AS RELATED TO YOUR CAREER DEVELOPMENT)
Can Ashland Oil Reach the INNER YOU? Deep down inside, where 
you live, there is a something that will help you recognize the 
right career . . . you'll feel the first symptoms of success ... a 
hard to repress bubbling enthusiasm emerging from the inner you 
will take your talent and training on an exciting drive above and 
beyond the capabilities you recognize now.
Often, thats how great things happen. Not by cool calculation 
but, by the fortunate meld of ability, ambition and opportunity.
Can Ashland Oil turn on the inner you? Obviously you wont 
know unless you investigate.
And thats what were asking you to do. Look us over.
Who are we?  Ashland Oil & Refining Company is a 44 year 
old, rapidly growing, Petroleum Company (sales of over One Billion 
Dollars) with major diversification into chemicals, plastics, syn
thetics and many other industrial and commercial fields. Consumer 
product lines range from tires to fiberglass pleasure boats.
What do we offer? An uncommon variety of growth oriented 
opportunities in major professional areas, an outstanding advance
ment policy based on individual ability, a diverse array of affiliated 
companies and separately operated divisions in every part of the 
country and global operations ranging from Lake Maracaibo to 
Bombay and Sydney, and more, much more.
What type of professionals are we seeking? ENGINEERS (MEs, 
EEs, IEs, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS), MARKETING PERSONNEL, 
ACCOUNTANTS, DATA PROCESSING SPECIALISTS and graduates 
in other professional fields.
Why not find out more about Ashland Oil  you can send the 
coupon below for a free booklet, look us over, and if you feel the 
inner you deserves all the exposure to opportunity you can muster, 
make an appointment with the placement center.
CLIP OUI ANDCopyri
To: Mr. G. F. Hiatt, Personnel Dapt. CR-11 
Ashland Oil & Refining Company 
1409 Winchester Avenue 
Ashland, Kentucky 41101
Dear Mr. Hiatt. Please send your brochure outlining career oppor
tunities at Ashland.
Name:
Address:
I understand tnat if I am interested in talking to an Ashland 
Representative, a campus interview will be arranged.
MU aw-ie hcchtn-Umns apcehsat 
ASHLAND OIL & REFINING COMPANY / ASHLAND, KENTUCKY
flOOBOQQBOQQOQOOCXWQOOOOOOOOQgOQe
k.yy.
(Continued from Page 2)
tures of the approximately 600 
Frosh marching to Morewood 
Circle to Warner Hall. It should 
have been beside a picture of the 
gentlemanly serenade, where the 
Morewood girls were treated 
to original lyrics (written by 
eight persons unknown, who were 
primarily from Scobell Hall) to 
old songs. And, it should have 
been included with pictures of 
the majority of the Frosh refrain
ing from entering the forbidden 
Halls of Morewood. and confin
ing their energies to the persuit of the dainty (and not so 
dainty) underthings that fell 
from the darkened towers.
Concerning the eleven word 
synopsis of the evenings activi
ties, it is incomprehensible that 
such a well planned (by eight 
persons unknown, who were pri
marily from Scobell Hall), well 
attended affair could be, in the 
view of The Tartan, described in 
a two line caption. Not even a 
hint is made of the organized 
march complete with drummer. 
No mention is made of the song 
sheets and serenading. There is 
not even a sentence describing 
the banners naming the halls that 
participated. In general, the 
whole affair was practically 
ignored by The Tartan.
A school newspaper supposedly 
reports campus activities as they 
happen and hopefully give fair 
coverage to such significant and 
massive events as the Seranade 
at Morewood. The members of 
the Class of 72 express hope that 
in the future their activities will 
be given proper and not mis
leading notice.
Signed,
Larry White 
Kent Mikus 
Dave Tegeler
The Tartan apologizes to the 
serenaders and their organizers 
(who may be unknown, primar
ily from Scobell Hall, but not 
unappreciated.) Our error was 
innocent and free of malice. We 
thank you for clarifying the de
tails of the marvelous, memorable 
happening. -Ed.
Greek System 
Only A Crutch
Editor, The Tartan,
By the time of its release, this 
letter may seem late, but better 
now than after the spring RUSH.
I am sorry to say that Jere Moter seems to have fallen the victim 
of the Greek system on this cam
pus. Collegiate years should be an 
Greeds on this campus, seems to 
be limited to social life, par
ties every week-end and the 
football game this Saturday. I 
am sure that Mr. Moter has some 
activities outside of his fraternity, 
but fails to mention them. He 
of course realized that his life 
would be extremely dull if it 
were limited to Greek activities.
Mr. Moter also alludes to the fact 
that making friends is virtual
ly impossible without the Greek sys
tem. For many students who enter 
CMU I would say that Mr. Moter 
is correct. By forcing them into a 
group that they hardly even know 
and saying that these are your 
brothers hardly helps their sit
uation. A false sense of friendship 
is established and the student be
comes dependent upon these friend
ships for his own personal security, 
knowing that he will find it difficult 
to find the same security without 
the fraternity. A fraternity mem
ber may exist for four years at 
this institution complacent with 
is pushed out into the cold hard 
world by himself the crutches will 
be gone. It seems that he may fall 
on his face.
Our Wizard of Oz-John Grebos
by Susan Jacobi
In the little office behind the In
formation Desk at Skibo, in the 
mysterious Room 103 sits a Wiz
ard of Oz who solves problems for 
CMU students that Dorothy would 
never have dreamed of. But this 
wizard is a far cry from the fero
cious, dire-breathing, P-A system 
wizard who made everyone in Oz 
a nervous wreck; he is, rather, 
an easy-going young man who 
smiles a lot, and can make even 
the most cowardly of lions relax. 
He is John David Grebos, a for
mer CMU graduate, and he 
has succeeded Mr. McFeely as the 
Coordinator of Student Activities.
A native of Pittsburgh, Mr. 
Grebos grew up in Wilkinsburg 
and after high school came to 
CMU to study music. He was very 
active in a number of student 
activities and organizations: 
a member of most of the Music 
Department functions (including 
the Kiltie Band, the Pipe Corps, 
the Community Orchestra, and 
the Music Department Choir),
Treasurer of the Council of Frater
nity Presidents, and a member 
of varsity track, intramural foot
ball, and basketball teams. He 
graduated in 1963, with a BA in 
Music, and received his Masters 
Degree three years later. He be
gan teaching Music in the North 
Allegheny School System in 1963 
to elementary school children. He 
found great personal satisfaction 
in teaching chese children.
and this experience got him inter
ested in working on a full-time 
basis on the college level. His 
familiarity with this schook, 
and his concern for people and 
desire to help them drew him to 
the job of Co-ordinator of Student 
Activities.
What this title basically means, 
is that he is the advisor for the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
and all fraternity functions for 
Alpha Phi Omega Service Frater
nity, and generally all student 
activities and organizations in the 
center, his office as a Grand Cen
tral Station of questions, pro
blems, and complaints . . . incom
ing trains only: its the end of 
the line for them.
For him, it was a reward when 
a seven or eight-year old who had 
never seen a musical instrument 
before, made music. But after 
five years, Mr. Grebos felt that 
perhaps he wanted to work in areas 
more advanced than the elemen
tary school level. For three 
years he had been a part-time 
teacher at Mt. Mercy College,
Dave Grebos
It is hardly a dull routine in Mr. 
Grebos office. He says, The 
variety of activities that go on here 
and the variety of duties keeps it ex
citing . . . Im enjoying it, I think 
its great. He likes being in associa 
tion with the administration : he is 
better acquainted with it now 
i than he was when he was a student 
here, and his attitude about it 
has changed for the better. He 
also enjoys working with the stu
dents. He was a student here 
understands so well. Further
more, Mr. Grebos is not much old
er than a student himself, and 
loves just to talk with students 
about sports cars, or music, or just 
things.
Oz never had it so good.
Mr. Moter would like the fresh
man to face the fact that the so
cial calendar of CMU is provid
ed by the Greeks who are pre
prepared to handle the job, while 
the School (whatever that is) 
is umprepareed. If I under-'J 
stand correctly the School mustl 
mean those students who are 
not Greeks. I fail to see what 
quantities are instilled by an in
dividual in becoming part of the 
Greek system which would bet
ter qualify him to prepare a social 
calendar. If I can use past per
formance as an indicator of 
ability to prepare a social acti
vity, it seems that the Greek sys
tem may be lacking in this ability.
Mr. Moter also states that the 
in Pittsburgh. If anything, I feeli 
that the fraternity system keeps 
the individual from experienc
ing the total scene of the world 
around him. First, why should a 
fraternity man spend his Friday or 
Saturday night outside of his 
house when he has already paid 
social dues for using it. Does this
not keep him from many cultural 
activities in the Pittsburgh area 
that are available? Second, we all 
realize that the time that we can 
give to extra-curricular activities 
is limited. I am saddened by the 
thought of all the talent and brain 
power that is wasted in maintain
ing a fraternity (whose ultimate 
purpose I do not know) when it 
could be sued in a much more 
valuable manner. There are num
erous social actions and literary 
organizations which are crying 
for help. Working for such an or
ganization is not only extremely 
self-fulfilling, but may provide 
assistance to those in the Pitts
burgh community who really 
need it.
I think that it is time for Mr. 
Moter and the rest of the frater
nity system-to realize that the 
student of today wants to be an 
individual not categorized by two 
or three Greek letters.
Stewart Miller 
Senior, AMS

---------------------------------------------------

Food Committee
(Continued from Page 1)
high? or Why isnt the food of a 
better quality? (Note one of the 
advantages listed, Low over
head, since rent should not be a 
factor, was disputed by Mr. 
Stewart who explained that food 
service does pay rent, to the 
amount of 6 per cent of its total 
volume.)
The proposed remedy is as fol
lows: to put Skibo under the free 
market system. According to 
this plan, People who are now 
on contract could buy meal tickets 
which entitle them to a certain 
fixed dollar amount of food. 
Discounts could be made for 
long-term tickets, to guarantee a 
fixed market. Then, according 
to this plan, if the dinner was 
unsatisfactory, the students could 
protest by not having their meal 
card punched. In other words, 
there would be a surplus of food 
in the kitchens and food service 
would be obligated to serve bet
ter meals or go broke. The cry, 
We want a free market system!  
was heard many times during the 
meeting.
Other suggestions were also 
made by members of the audi
ence. Among them was a plan 
for designating Morewood for 
seconds and Skibo for regular 
meals, a contract system where
by the price for contract would be 
lowered and seconds only obtain
ed by paying extra for them, a 
second dining room for non-con
tract students which would not 
serve seconds as part of the meal 
cost, and dividing the present 
dining room into two sections, 
one half for unlimited food, one 
half for a la carte. Also mention
ed was a plan to eliminate sec
onds entirely, and having as 
much as you want when you are 
at the serving point in the line. 
But all the suggestions were 
unacceptable to Mr. Bucko, Mr. 
Haan, or the students.
Other complaints were voiced 
throughout the meeting. The de
ficiencies of Skibo were reiter
ated and the present inadequa
cies were blamed on the basic 
building structure. As one Stu
dent said, This building should 
be junked. Whoever heard of 
having to go outside, upstairs, 
re-enter the building  just to go 
to the bathroom. Its like a pri
son down there. Inefficient 
management of food service was 
also mentioned as a cause of the 
price rise and poor food.
Someone in the audience sum
med up. Popular sentiment is 
one of the most important things 
about college. Most people who 
attended the meeting agreed that 
the communication problem was 
more important than the econo
mic one.
After an hour and a half a 
suggestion was made to convert 
the staff dining room into an a 
la carte dining room temporarily. 
Contract students could eat 
there if they forfeit their privi
lege to seconds and not-contract 
students could buy a cup of cof
fee or a fulljneal, if they so desire. 
Mr. Bucko was asked if this 
would be possible on a temporary 
basis. After conferring with Mr. 
Stewart this plan was finally 
adopted. The staff dining hall 
will be open Monday through Fri
day for this service. Those on 
contract wishing to eat there must 
bring their contract cards with 
them.
After the adoption of this plan, 
the students reiterated their 
statement that they did not re
gard this as a solution but only 
as a temporary appeasement.
Ron Haan mentioned again that 
the food service committee 
would be meeting every week, 
trying to come to a satisfactory
solution with the administration. 
He urged all those interested, in 
helping to work out this solution 
to attend.
Gordon Hall to Speak 
At Tues. Assembly
Tuesday Oct. 15, the Assembly 
Committee will present the se
cond in a series of lectures on the 
theme Sickness in Society. This 
weeks speaker will be Gordon 
Hall.
Mr. Hall has been analyzing 
and investigating political fringe 
groups for nearly 20 years. He 
keeps track of the many fringe 
groups largely by taking advan
tage of their eagerness to mail 
out literature. He frequently at
tends meetings and rallies ob
taining information first-hand.
Chatham Lectures
October 16, 8:30 p.m., Chatham 
College Chapel
Dick Gregory, sponsored by the 
Chatham Chapter of N.S.A.
October 17, 11 a.m., Chatham Col
lege Chapel
Politics and Values: Perspec
tives on the American Presidency 
Lecture by Erwin Hargrove, 
Associate Professor of Political 
Science, Brown University.
October 24, 8:30 p.m., Chatham 
College Chapel
Afro; 4-American Music: Con
cert and Commentary with 
Odetta, folk singer.
October 25-November 2, 8:15 p.m., 
Chatham College Drama 
Room, Braun Hall
Miss Julie - Chatham Col
lege Department of Drama
October 26, 8:30 p.m., Chatham 
College Chapel
Concert by Chatham College 
Choir
October 31, 11 a.m., Chatham 
College Chapel
Idealogy of the Black revolu
tion: Africa-U.S.A.  Lecture by 
Tilden J. LeMelle, Professor of 
African Politics, Fordham Uni
versity.
If you wish to attend the lunch
eon with Mr. Hall following his 
speech, you may arrange to do so 
in the Student Activities Office 
(behind the information desk in 
Skibo) any time before Monday, 
October 14.
Wednesday, October 9, 1968THE TARTANPage 7
Theadmi RsdnaenUrh omdO fCr Hx
Tartan tdad Fb 9rmmb pewcenh 
The curious and the concerned lool on at the organizational meeting
of SDS.
FIRST SDS MEETING
110 Students sat, stood and over
flowed SDSs first meeting on 
Monday, September 30. It was 
a good turnout for a college as 
small as CMU is.
The conversation was dynamic 
yet quiet, in hot, stuffy. Skibo 
Room 45, as anti-authoritarian 
students established an institu
tion.
The membership was defined 
as students, faculty and adminis
tration of CMU, and in a large 
committee meeting the following 
Wednesday, the seeds of a consti
tution and a five man steering 
committee were shown.
The discussion of campus 
issues, a sidelight of this organi
zational meeting, ranged from 
ROTC and the University taking 
defense contracts, to campus 
policemen wearing guns and 
Skibo not being open to non
students.
Someone stood up and said that 
the same thing which benefits
from ROTC, kills Blacks in the 
ghetto and Vietnamese children 
in Vietnan.
A girl wanted hippies and 
other non-students to be allowed 
in Skibo. and suggested that the 
students, not the administration, 
should decide whom the student 
would associate with.
In all, SDS has started already 
having potentially found mem
bership. organization and issues.
cations between students and 
staff. Students complain that 
faculty-student relationships 
are inadequate; simultaneously, 
the staff members recognize the 
need for improving associations. 
Dr. DeBenedetti expressed that 
it would be very good if a student 
or group of students met with 
faculty members, in an informal 
manner, to discuss various sub
jects, academic, social, and per
sonal. Contacts should be devel
oped and can be with mutual co
operation and deeper under
standing. The gap that has been 
created appears superficial and 
the Senate feels that they can con
solidate the groups.
The Faculty Senate, in its early 
stages, is an experiment. It'moves 
toward the idea of unifying the 
campus. Members seem quite 
impressed with the earnestness 
and enthusiasm of the newly or
ganized group. We started a 
new program and we will try to 
make it a success. The attitudes 
of the Senate are very optimistic.
Chatham 
Art Exhibit
[Chatham College, Oct. 7-27
I Falk Hall Foyer-10 a.m. to: 
[to 5 p.m.* Monday through;
| Saturday, 1-5 p. m. Sunday.: 
Exhibit of Recent PaintingsZ 
! by Merton Simpson. ^
* Exhibit of authentic African7 
sculpture. 
Home of Clyde Goad and His Steam GuitarTHE MUSIC EMPORIUM
a center for 
FOLK MUSIC CLASSICAL BLUEGRASS 
INSTRUMENTS LESSONS RECORDS ACCESSORIES 
autoharp banjo dulcimer guitar mandolin fiddle 
band & orchestra instrument accessories
732 ivy street shadyside moa.-frL 12-5, 7-lt sat. 1+6 
687-151
JOBS 
MEN AND WOMEN
Full and Part Time
Work part time now and have m full Hme fob la ifco 
Wo will ad|ust work to fit your schedule.
SALARY
Parttfrme- $75.00 per week  Full Timet $130.00 per 
Scholarships Available
For Appointment Calt 
441-9616 or 281-7819 between 9:30 and 2:00
for the University man 
OUR GOOD-LOOKING BLAZERS 
AND ODD TROUSERS
Double-breasted blazer of wool xheviot 
in a steep twill weave with waist suppressionP 
deep side vents and brass buttons in a 
new warm tobacco shade, navy or tanP GvR
Our classic single-breasted wool 
flannel blazers, $65
Our wide wale cotton corduroy blazer in 
deerskin or oliveP $55
Odd Trousers in a patterned wool 
cheviotP GHx9R6 8 solid colorsP GHRW 
cotton corduroy, G Bq9R6 8 others, from $ BB
ISTAMJSHCD lM
ftflfns oys Furnishing Sfats irSbors
600 SMITHF1ELD ST. * MELLON SQ., PITTSStRGH, PA. M222
ATLANTA  BOSTON . CHICAGO  LOS ANGELES 
NEW YORK  SAN FRANCISCO  WASHINGTON

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANWednesday, October 9, 1968
Psych Dept. Shows Metacurricular Films
by Patricia McDonald
ANTHONE REVIEW
The Psychology Department 
of the newly organized College 
of Humanities and Social Scien
ces at C-MU has scheduled a 
series of metacurricular films 
open to all students and faculty 
members of the college com
munity. The films, dealing with 
Urban Sociology and Anthropol
ogy, are shown weekly in the Wherret Room. Skibo Hall, from 6:00 
to 11:00 pm.
The films are coordinated with 
the experimental psychology class
es held in the college. Dr. John 
Hayes, of the Psychology De
partment, explained the main in
tention of the films is to provide 
the students with a background 
that they can relate to their own 
lives and experiences. They are 
half-way station, giving the 
students some knowledge they 
can relate to their classwork. 
Dr. Hayes also pointed out that 
although there will be no formal 
discussion of the film topics will 
take place in the various psycho
logy classes.
Each weekly showing of the 
films will last approximately one 
hour and a quarter, with four show
ings in the 6:00 to 11:00 pm. time 
period. A schedule of the films for 
the coming weeks is as follows: 
October 9
The Quiet One-Clay
October 16-
Primary N.Y., N.Y.
October 23
Memorandum-The Towers
October 30- 
Dead Birds
November 6
The Poor Pay More
November 13
Tenement-Is anybody listening-The Interview
November 20- 
Homosexuality in Men and 
Women
Very Nice, Very Nice 
MROFNOC
Except for the October 23 pre
sentation, all showings will be in 
the Wherrett Room. The showing 
on October 23 will be in room 40 
Skobo Hall.
pasamounT Theadmin PResems 
a Dino De lauRenms PRODucnon
jane-vForiDa 
BaRcaFcua
spcctfi GursTDaVID JGO HemminGS^ TOGnazzi
DIN0 DE LAURENTIIS *ROGER VADIM SSSu, ssr,. -uB 
Marianne Productions S A
 am amo cmmus fcm  mroncs r> tk I
A Franco Italian Co-Production  Dino De Laurentiis Cinematografica S.pA 
Panavisjon#Technicok)r#A Paramount picture SUGGCSTCO rem m tMATuW< AQDHNCts"
m TO
SEE BARBARELLA 00 HER THING STARTING 
WED.. OCT. 16. ATTHEATRES.IN PITTSBURGH 
AND SOON AT A THEATRE IN YOUR AREA!
Charge Of The Light Brigade:
those that played the clowns
by Tony Lawrence
RTheadmw ndarl ,nearh .maewaw engearh 68 w2tdd5w ad 
yrk Wdmc 5fwa krrcrnh ad wrr f mrgerk do Charge 
of the Light Brigade. Bte5r atr grmwedn wtdkn mfn 
fFdUa q tdUmw fnh L8 OenUarw atr tdr ew odm f mena 
atfa mUnw fmdUnh I tdUmwP trmr ew f5wd f wtdmarm 
mena atfa ew mrwrna5b 2em2U5faenC en TUmdrPx
2uf puhSLf of muf FnLum ISnLhAf is the
fifth film that has been made about the Bat
tle of Balaklava. The film took two years to 
research, five months and 3600 extras to make 
and cost a reported $5,300,000 dollars. The re
sult is, decidedly, an inconsistent film that gets 
off to a very poor start and ends up with a re
markably effective ending and some occasion
ally brilliant footage along the way.
We are set in England in the 1850s. Rus
sia decides that it should have Crimea and the 
dozing British lion finds that the air of military 
glory is too much to resist. Within this premise 
is Producer Neil Hartleys and Director Tony 
Richardsons hopeful depiction of the, insane, 
war machine that thrives on uncommon 
stupidity rather than keen effectiveness. The 
actual story centers around Lord Cardigan 
(Trevor Howard) and his well-appointed troops. 
Lord Cardigan is a disciplinarian with traits 
that include sadism, lechery and an overt 
fondness for overt imbibing. Enter David Hemmings as Captain Lewis Nolan who has been 
serving in India. Nolan joins with the 11th 
Hussars under Cardigans command and soon 
proves himself as a fiery rebel. Cardigan is 
angered at Nolans Indian servant and labels 
it a common affectation of the Victorian 
military. In the Officers Mess, Nolan orders 
wine in a black bottle and causes Cardigan 
to fly into a rage because only champagne was 
to be permitted at the table.
With events coming to a head in Crimea 
feeble old Lord Raglan (John Gielgud) is 
made commander of the British expedition. 
He picks Lork Lucan (Harry Andrews) to be 
Commander of the Army. Lucan is Lord Car
digans long and mutually detested brotherin-law. Lord Cardigan is made Commander of 
the Light Brigade. At the River Alma they en
counter the Russians. After an ironic victory, 
Raglan holds back the light cavalry, saving 
them to escort some guns. Nolan fumes be
cause a chance for the cavalry to seal a 
dashing and decisive victory has been by
passed. In the meanwhile the men are suffer
ing cholera, wounds and other discomforts. 
The Russians now take possession of several of 
the British cannons. Nolan desperately urges 
Raglan to act. The order is finally given for 
the Light Brigade to charge. Raglan is be
wildered as he watches the Light Brigade 
turn into the wrong valley to be massacred by 
the Russians. The last sequence shows Rag
lan, Cardigan and other officers bickering as 
to who actually was responsible for the anni
hilation of the Light Brigade.
As previously stated there are problems 
with Charge of the Light Brigade namely al
most the entire first half of the film. Photo
grapher David Watkin made a strange choice 
in the composition of most of the early shots. 
The color and texture is obtrusively out of 
focus and an almost montage effect is very out 
of place. Many scenes are cropped and there 
is too much of an obvious effort to make every 
scene a pictorial event. As the film gains 
momentum the photography clears up. Per
haps this is some sort of statement as the events 
themselves become more concrete.
According to the producer this was the in
tention. Nevertheless it is a major distraction. 
Editing by Kevin Brownlow and Hugh Raggett 
again seemed crisper in the latter part of the 
picture. Some students at the screening dis
agreed with Charles Woods screenplay imply
ing that that it wasnt true to Victorian speech 
and manner. I felt the opposite that it was not 
only accurate but that Wood added his own, 
style, so evident in How I Won the War, 
quite evenly.
The most impressive performance in the 
film is John Gielgud as old Lord Raglan. It 
is a brilliant piece of work. Where other ac-' 
tors might evoke laughter from both character 
and text, Gielgud is dynamic and out com
mands everyone else on the screen. Trevor H^ 
ward is good as Lord Cardigan but seemed to al
low the endless bombastical nature of the chara
cter to carry him through. Vanessa Redgrave 
is rather wasted in this film. She is used more 
as a device to depict Victorian England and its 
ladies instead of a real person. David Hemmings seemed all wrong for the part of Cap
tain Nolan. It appears that Captain Nolan re
presents the main in love with war and can at
tain happiness in the business of war evt 
though he has a certain gentleness about him. 
But Hemmings, or maybe Richardson, never 
realized this. Casting someone not quite as 
pretty might have been one solution (David 
Warner for example) or just someone who is 
a fine actor which Hemmings is not. He does 
his own thing well and I think his best per
formance to date was in the abominable Camelot. In Blow-up he wasnt really required 
to act and it didnt matter. But Nolan is by faHo 
the most complex, the closest to a human being 
and the most feeling of men in the film, sim
ply by his assignment. More should and could 
have been done with it.
I must confess not seeing the tremendous 
appeal or talent in Jill Bennett. In this part 
she is more innocuous than ghastly (whereas 
in the new John Osborne play Time Present 
she is incredibly bad) but there is something^ 
very abrasive about her on the screen. She plays 
the vivacious, scatterbrained Mrs. Duberly 
who has a brief affair with Cardigan. Harry 
Andrews is fine as Lord Lucan. Granted he 
has little else to do than perform like a stung 
bear but he does well with that.
Tony Richardson has made two great films, 
The Entertainer and Tom Jones, the latter 
being a masterpiece. I havent seen Satur-~ 
day Night and Sunday Morning or Look Baclf^ 
In Anger but A Taste of Honey and Lonelin
ess of a Long Distance Runner are also good 
films. But of recently his film work is generally 
spotty. There are some excellent sequences in 
Charge of the Light Brigade and while there is 
valid evidence of an increasingly solid style 
there is also reversion back to old tricks. There 
is a scene between Trevor Howard and Jill 
Bennett in his tent on the Battleground. All^ 
the dinner guests have retired and they begin 
to undress and undress and undress in what is all 
too similar to the eating scene in Tom Jones; 
only the food is absent.
Richardson also has a strange creative 
sense about brutality and vulgarity on film.
I am told that about 15 minutes of blood and 
gore was cut out but I think there is still too 
much. Maybe it has to be that way but there 
must be a more effective way of getting a point's! 
across. Im referring to within the context of 
this particular film. Just as the scene with 
Rod Steigers mother and the ice box in The 
Loved One was disgusting and the hunt in 
Tom Jones was equally so, there is much to 
be disputed in this also. There is sickening 
scene after scene of a limb being severed, 
legs being blown off, heads-split open and an 
unforgettable scene of a man being flogged 
because he refused to spy on a fellow of " 
ficer. But the irony in this is the ending, which 
is devastatingly magnificent, that Richardson 
has chosen. All throughout the film are ela
borate animations of, what seems to be, old 
Punch Magazine Political cartoons. They are 
used well and serve an interesting and use
ful purpose. At the very end of the film the of
ficers that are left after the massacre are de
bating among themselves how they lost the^^ 
Light Brigade. The camera pulls away and 
shifts to a shot of a headless dead horse lying 
in an eerie, repose. As we watch the horse it 
is transposed into an etching. The credits rool, 
the picture is over and the stupidity goes on.

---------------------------------------------------

David Schoenerun speaks of evolutionr y change
Society.
by Linda Pecaites
Wednesday, October 9, 1968THE TARTANPage 9
Schoebrun Raps the Establishment
paUhrna CdgrmnOrna OUwa Fr 
2dnCmfaU5farhA ea tfw oenf55b 
hdnr wdOratenC datrm atfn wdnwdm 
$dOr2dOenCP H FmdUCta ad r2t 
f Ofn do enar55r2aUf5 wafaUmr omdO 
dUawehr atr 2dOFenr do rnCenrrm0
enC fnh FUwenrwwA -fgeh p2tdrni 
FmUnA 5dnC f mrcndknrh 7dUmnf50
ewa fnh ndk f mdorwwdm fa sd50
UOFef3w p2tdd5 do Hnarmnfaednf5 
.oofemwP ,nodmaUnfar5b odm atr Of0
7dmeab do atr 2fOUwA paUhrna 
CdgrmnOrna f5wd ofe5rh ad Cegr 
Odmr atfn atr fFwd5Uar Ffmr Oen0
eOUO do UF5e2eab ad tew wrr2t dm 
hew2Uwwedn wrOenfmP Ha f5wd cra 
f wr2mra do atr of2a atfa odm atr 
dUamfCrdUw me2r do qPN( dnr 
2dU5h rfa 5Un2t keat umP p2tdrni 
FmUnP Ha f5wd ofe5rh ad Uae5e)r tew 
aeOr wd atfa umP p2tdrnFmUn 
2dU5h tfgr gewearh 25fwwrwA enwarfh 
5rfgenC teO ad kfnhrm fFdUa 
2fOUwP
9U5efn Mdnh ew 2dOenC en oU0
aUmr OdnatwA egfa2t 2fmroU55b fnh 
eo bdU fmr 5U2cbA bdU OeCta oenh 
dUa ktrn tr ke55 Fr wrfcenCP
It is very rare in these days of 
frightened bourgeoid that one 
can see a middle-aged man 
stand up and declare Im out
to get the establishment too, Im 
with you, as David Schoen
brun did her last week.
In an age where mass media 
becomes more and more the mass 
lie, Schoenbrun is a rare type in
deed. For some thirty years now 
he has kept an untarnished repu
tation as a foreign correspondent 
singularly devoted to the truth, 
particularly the truth about Am
erican foreign policy, to the ex
tent that even the New York Times 
refused to print his account of the 
Paris peace talks this last spring 
on the grounds that he was too 
controversial.
Those of us who are not firmly 
glued to the right side of the 
bench will applaud him as one 
of the small groups of men brave 
enough to topple the giant, 
Johnson, with their Coalition for 
a Democratic Alternative. He 
was one of the people responsi
ble for making the country un
governable, untravelable for 
Johnson through the mount
ing discontent of the average citi
zen with an unwinnable war, 
through the increasing hostility 
of the press, through the manithe field of music, and besides 
blues, folksinging, and jazz, he 
further shows his concerns for 
now by ascribing to liking groups 
like the Cream, Vanilla Fudge, 
antfCountry Joe and the Fish.
Very convinced on this point, 
Mr. Breland asserts that he likes 
people who say what they mean, 
and not those who speak in gener
alizations. Extending this view 
to politics, he teels that one de
finite asset of Presidential candi
date George Wallace is that he 
says exactly what he means, and 
when he says that he will do some
thing one can be assured that he 
will do it.
Another of Mr. Brelands firm 
beliefs is that you say what you 
feel through work  you cant 
say what you feel in an inter
view.
By DEVY CASSEL
festations of the newly awakened 
social conscience of the student.
Despite this many of the militantly liberal students shy away 
from Schoenbrun in distrust of his 
tactics of working through the ex
isting channels. He has refused to 
support those who cry for the des
truction of the system on the grounds 
that the time is not ripe for a 
revolution in this country. Re
volutions occur on a rising tide 
of expectations while the United 
States is now being swept along 
by a series of undirected, roar
ing currents. f
Schoenbrun posits that when to
tal action is taken against forces 
that are not near a state of col
lapse and without assistance from 
inside the system, the system re
sponds with total repression and 
moves even further to the right, 
as in the case of the abortive at
tempts of the French students or 
of Chicago. Thus until the ele
ments that compose the system are 
oriented to accept radical change 
the answer lies not in the bar
ricades but in the process of tak
ing over and changing from with
in the system itself. It is this 
ecleticism that is alien to many 
of the young radicals whose poli
tical conscience has developed 
as an echo of the black mili
tants cries for instantaneous 
change.
Schoenbrun compares this new 
conscience with the conscience 
of the thirties. Where as the mani
festations then were reflections 
of the poverty of the depression 
and the rise of fascism in Europe, 
the social awareness of the sixties 
is the result of the successes of 
the civil rights movement and the 
personal threat to security that 
the war produces.
When he turns towards the fu
ture, Schoenbrun foresees rather 
than the destruction of the cur
rent social order, the resturcturing of it from within brought 
about by the rise of permanent 
third and fourth parties, the 
renovation of the electoral sys
tem by the institution of national 
presidental primaries, a massive 
economic program parrellel to the 
guaranteed minimum income ap
proach to uplift the thirty million 
citizens who linger in the ranks 
of poverty, a rebuilding of the 
cities and an eventual redistribu
tion of the population from the 
limited urban bas^into the now 
abandoned farm.
in our Sick
RIGOLETTO
Student tickets for the 
opera RIGOLETTO are now on 
sale in the Office of the Dean, 
College of Fine Arts.
Dates of the opera: Thursday, 
October 24, and Saturday, 
October 26.
Price of student tickets is 
$2.00
Location of tickets-Second 
Balcony, C right section, rows 
H, H, K.
His redistribution would in
clude not only the shift of hous
ing and industry, but also a 
spreading of educational cultural 
facilities to remove the press
ing need for the city as the womb 
of intellectual, artistic activity.
One of the original doves, he 
becomes most eloquent on the 
question of Vietnam and the role 
of the United States in the world. 
Not only does he call for an unequivocable cessation of involve
ment in Vietnam but a severe re
duction of committment and dom
ination on all other fronts. He fore
sees the end of the Vietnam hos
tilities and the possibility of troop 
reduction in Tailand from the 
current 100,000 to 20,000 that 
would remain to serve as an ap
peasement ot those who still fol
low the discredited dominoe theory 
of Rusk and Co.
He comments that the United 
States must learn the limits 
of power and cease the interventionistic policies of today in ex
change for a role of a nation fun
ctioning in a world system. Fin
ally, the U.S. and U.S.S.R. must 
discontinue the use of economic 
committments to less-delevoped 
countries as weapons in an idealogically competition, but rather 
allow for the responsible distri
bution of genuine funds through 
the channels of world organiza
tions.
 . . . throughout the world of art we see examples of the art stu
dent no longer confined to the traditional atelier. His world is one of 
action . . . the artist reacted, and his attentions have become an outthere cool experience. It has been said that the artist will follow, in 
a manner, something behind the latest discoveries of the particular 
technical achievements of his time . . . Our age appears to bear this 
theory out...
The author of this statement also seems to bear this theory out, 
for his interests extend to many facets besides the work in his major 
field of art, and even in his work is not limited to just one area.
Mr. Bruce Breland is the new 
head of CMUs department of 
Painting and Sculpture. With a 
B.S. degree in Art, Literature, 
and Social Sciences from West
ern Michigan University and 
M.P.A. in Design and Painting 
from Michigans Cranbrook Acad
emy of Art, Mr. Breland has held 
positions as Chairman of the De
partment of Industrial Design at 
Kansas City Art Institute and 
School of Design and he has 
been Associate Professor of Art 
at the University of Mississippi, 
the State University of New York 
at Oswego, and Southern Illinois 
University.
Since most of the schools Mr. 
Breland was associated with have 
been state schools, one difference 
that strikes him most about Car
negie is its size. He feels that 
there is an open-ness about the 
school which is missing in the 
large computerized state schools. 
He feels that CMU has recog
nized the problems of an urban 
university, and has acted on 
them, and has progressed in 
at least one way by also giving 
emphasis to a fine arts depart
ment to balance the science pro
gram.
The art department has tre
mendous potential and Mr. Bre
land aspires to make a model 
from which other art schools 
would follow. Speaking about 
changes in his department, he 
explains that nothing stays the 
same, but that it is the work of 
all the faculty to constitute im
mediate or gradual changes.
Multi-media best describes 
the expanse of Mr. Brelands 
own art work. He has worked in 
paint, sculpture, designing, and 
film. As for the type of work he 
does, he states, I had never at
tempted the stereotyped paint
ing. I frankly felt this was in
valid. I discontinued this direc
tion for a more general theme. 
It was at this point I realized an 
element of the satirical in my 
work.
CMUs new professor says 
that his main concerns are for 
now, for everything that is nec
essary to get the job done. To 
witness this, one of his works is 
a big milk can covered with the 
colors of Vietnam flag, a sign 
that says Hail to the Chief 
and a projection from the top 
of the can of a Texas armadillo.
Im a student-faculty oriented 
administrator, explains Mr. 
Breland. And he later added that 
he is counting on the young peo
ple. Another of his interests is in

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTAN-r-Wednesday, October 9, 1968
Charming Covey Competes
Although from Reading, Pennsylvania, ELIZE 
LINAUTS is Latvian. Hence, she is greatly inter
ested in the welfare of suppressed countries. The 
junior Art Education major has other interests more 
in her field. She now teaches children art, but her 
goal is to become an established artist. Elize wants 
to see changes in the Student Union that would pro
vide expanded facilities to make it a more lively 
place, fulfilling its original intent.
Meeting people is 1LENE GOCHMANS main 
interest. This freshman math major from Yonkers, 
New York, was on campus about this time last year, 
and her decision to come to the Mellon Patch was in
fluenced largely by the diverse, outgoing type peo
ple she found here. Besides meeting people, she 
teaches them, being a swimming instructor. And be
sides teaching people, she writes to them, having writ
ten for a New York newspaper. Surprisingly, 
Ilenes not in social studies, education, or writing. 
Shes a math major, loves its pure, challenging, yet 
concrete nature, and plans to build a long-lasting 
career.
-,
This is Fred Smoot. He is duly 
impressed by beauty queens. 
He is a candidate for potential 
insanity. He is also going to be 
funny as hell at the Club Canta
loupe. Saturday night of Home
coming in the posh Skibo Ball
room Wow!
For Homecoming Crown
by Dave Ringler
SUE HARRIS president of Tri-Delta sor
ority, fraternity sweetheart, author of Tri-Deltas 
first place skit Spring Carnival last year. AWS 
vice president past, and cheerleader, Sues endeavors 
are diversified, to say the least. A senior English 
major, now teaching art in the Pittsburgh School 
System and planning on a graduate degree in psysical therapy. Sue has one overbearing wish. Given a 
magic wand, Miss Harris would turn Woodlawn 
into a 15 cent hamburger stand.
Being born in Spain, having lived in Switzer
land and every third town in the United States, en
joying Grand Prix competition, and speaking three 
languages fluently, hardly make CAROLE KALINSKI the typical freshman from Bronxville, New York 
Klink, as her friends call her, is in Music, one 
of four guitar majors at Carnegie. Her musical talent 
won the lead in the Scotch n Soda fall 'production, 
For Heavens Sake. Her Homecoming advice? 
Win the Big Game  then the Big Party.
A member of Delta Gamma sorority and a Pitts
burgh resident CINDY NEFF is a junior Business 
Studies major. Right now, Cindy is workihg on Delta 
Gammas homecoming skit. Future plans include 
a management career, not the traditional secretar
ial role. And when the right man comes along, he 
wont be burdened by the billsCindy makes her own 
clothes.
A sophomore in the Drama department, KATIE 
HANLEY, from Evanston, Illinois, has definite 
graduate goals. The young ski enthuiast wishes to 
move directly into musical productions or repertory 
theater. Her entertaining wounded Viet Nam troops 
at home gave her much experience toward this end. 
Katie has a few suggestions for the campusmore 
events to mix the Universitys diverse elements, 
and, more practically, an extension of fraternity 
curfews.
LINDA WORTHINGTON, a Tri-Delta, is a sopho
more math major with her eyes on a career in com
puters. Since her father is in the Army she has at
tended thirteen schools in twelve years in both 
Europe and America. Last year, Linda was nominat
ed for the Press campus cover girl contest and was a 
1967 Homecoming queen finalist.
SUZANNE BLANCHET (pronounced Blanchett) is a unique candidate by viture of the fact 
that she attended Princeton University in high school 
under the National Science Foundation chemistry 
program. Although now a freshman in that field, its 
not all the grind for Suzanne. If there were twentyfive hours in the day, shed spend them skiing, H20 
or snow. Set lighting also fascinates this Scotch n 
Soda crew hopeful. All this is a part of a girl from 
Freehold. New Jersey, just a short drive from Colts 
Neck.
CATHY CLINE, a senior fashion design major, 
is originally from Pittsburgh, having been an honor 
student at Peabody High School. Scotch n Soda, 
Tri-Delta sorority, and freshman camp counseling 
have highlighted her four years at CMU. Apart from 
Carnegie. Cathy supervises summer day camp and 
after school activities at the Kingsley House Com
munity Center for underprivileged children. Buy
ing for a large company or managing her own bouti
que are her post-graduate plans. At present, however, 
Cathy is more concerned with developing a better 
school psyche.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 9. 1968THE TARTANPage 11
Sorority Skits 
On Friday Afternoon
This year, sorority skits will be 
presented on Friday afternoon of 
Homecoming at 3:30 p.m. in the 
gym. In keeping with the Home
coming themeCM-USAeach
of the six sororities will take the 
audience to a different state 
where its story will unfold in a 
ten minute performance. The skits 
ten minute performance. The 
skits will be judged by six facul
ty members and trophies for the 
winners will be presented at the 
dance on Saturday night. The fol
lowing themes have been chosen 
by the sororities:
Alpha Epsilon Phi is beckoned 
by the call of the wild to ex
plore Indian territory in Sioux 
City, Iowa.
Chi Omega visits Boston, the hot 
bed of rebellion, where the first 
seed was sown in protest 
against the tax on beer.
New York City  a nice place 
to visit, but we wouldnt want 
to live there, or would we? Del
ta Delta Delta takes a tour of the 
city to find out.
The sisters of Delta Gamma 
view the recent convention at 
Chicago as it might have hap
pened back in 1928, as the Men 
of the Mafia convene in the 
Windy City to elect their pres
idential candidate.
Kappa Kappa Gamma takes you 
on a Dream Date in Las Vegas 
Engineers High.
Kappa Alpha Theta plots a cool 
scheme to stop the Gator on
slaught with a Homecoming in 
mighty Alaska.
Homecoming Queen 
Selection
One of the many innovations of 
Homecoming 1968 was the system 
for choosing the homecoming 
queen. Contrary to previous 
years, the queen can now be an 
upperclass girl. The system is as 
follows:
Any freshman girl was elig
ible for nomination by any stu
dent on campus. The nominees 
then attended a tea with repre
sentatives from the mens dor
mitories and the fraternities.
At this time the freshmen were 
narrowed down to three final
ists.
Secondly, six upperclass girls, 
two from each class, were nom
inated by the Varsity Club. These 
six girls, along with the three 
freshmen, then toured the fra
ternities and the dormitories,
ternities and the dormitories.
All nine girls will be voted up
on by the entire campus on 
on by the entire campus on Tues
day and Wednesday, October 15 
and 16. The girls photographs 
are in todays paper so be sure to 
look at them, meet the girls if 
you can; but most of all, be sure 
to vote next Tuesday and Wednes
day.
C-M USA
HOMECOMING 1968
Homecoming Theme Is 
See America First
See America First! Carnegie-Mellon is promoting. Our 
fair, glorious, smoldering home
land is being extolled in sight 
and sound in ten spectacular dis
plays. Here is a summary of the 
grand tour that will take place 
next week*
Alpha Tau Omega
While sitting in his backwoods 
West Virginia home, hillbilly 
Grandpa McCoy will reveal, (if 
no revenooers are around), how 
his latest batch of moonshine will 
help the Tartans win their feud 
with Allegheny.
Beta Theta Pi
The Allegheny alligator clings 
to the top of a geodesic football as 
our Tartan prepares to kick off 
in the Camegie-Mellon victory 
exhibit at San Antonios Hemisfair. Entering the exhibit will be 
an experience to spirit our home
coming within the bounds of San 
Antonios history and C-MUs 
victory.
Delta Tau Delta
The Delts, in their search of 
knowledge have made a startling 
discovery deep in the Carlsbad 
Caverns of New Mexico. This dis
covery will enable the Tech foot
ball team to rise to victory over 
all batons. The Delts invite you 
to share with them the knowledge 
for victory.
Delta Upsilon
Alleghenys Last Stand
A famous covered wagon of the 
old Southwest sets the stage for 
exciting homecoming action once 
again in 1968. Beneath the blaz
ing Arizona sun, our football 
hero, Tumbleweeds, overcomes 
the overwhelming odds of the 
Allegheny Indians to break 
through their defenses to score 
another touchdown.
Phi Kappa Alpha
play is Jacksonville, Florida, 
home of the Gator Bowl. The ex
citement is high as the Tartans 
take on the Allegheny Gators in 
the Gator Bowl. As the fans cheer 
and flash messages honoring the 
team and alumni, the Tartans roll 
up point after point as they bowl 
over the Gators.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
VICTORY, VICTORY IS OUR 
CRY
V-I-C-T-O-R-Y
Greenback Packers lead the 
clan
Wont you help them?
Give a damn!
Give a damn!
Sigma Nu
The Homecoming Football 
Game has been put in the color
ful setting of Las Vegas, Nev. 
As the wheel of chance revolves 
within the casino the city explod
es in celebration of C-MUs vic
tory pver the Allegheny Gators 
and in the welcoming of the C-MU 
alumni back to good old 
alumni back to good old Tech.
Theta Xi
Come join PKA in that glorious 
city of Chicago, 111., noted for 
wind and fire and riots. You are 
an on-the-spot witness as the 
C-MU Scotties demonstrate po
lice brutality first-hand to the 
Allegheny Yippies. Mayor Daley 
would be proud.
Phi Kappa Theta
The Gator Bowl
The scene of the Phi Kap disHollywood Sets the Scene 
ACT: I
Neath the newly erected dome 
of the Anaheim stadium glisten
ing on the Moons surface, tele
ported there to escape the chok
ing L. A. smog, the 68 
C-MU Homecoming game is in 
progress.
ACT: II
The Tartans are losing to the 
Gators.
ACT: III 
As the final minutes of the game 
As the final munutes of the 
game are ticking by, the USS En
terprise descends from blackest 
space and uses its phasor ray to 
boost the Tartans to victory.
Finis
Tau Delta Phi
The Birth of the Allegheny 
Blues
From the heart of Dixieland in 
New Orleans comes the note
worthy C-MU ragtime band. The 
Tartan players are instrumental 
in compassing the overwhelming 
score that causes The Birth of 
the Allegheny Blues.
???????????????????????????????????????????????? * * ** ?* +
1 HOMECOMING 68 \* *? *
* 
 
 THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH 
Buy Your Tickets Now!
The Fenways
The Magnificent Men
The Jaggerz

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANWednesday, October 9, 1968TARTAN SPORTS
CMU Battles Oberlin to 28-28 Deadlock
Chemay, Lombardo 
Star For Tartans
by Larry Brean
CMU put the pressure on Oberlins defense for most of Satur
days game, but the Tartans were 
forced to settle for a 28-28 tie. The 
game was a seesaw battle all the 
way, and the underdog yeomen 
almost pulled the game out in the 
final seconds, but Ashtons field 
goal attempt from the 18-yard line 
was wide to the right.
The game started on a jittery note 
for the Tartans. After Tom Lom
bardo recovered a fumble near 
midfield, Ken Batorski returned 
the favor with a CMUs first of
fensive play. Oberlin took posses
sion and gained a first down on 
CMUs 30-yard line. From that 
point, Joe Chemay hit Paul Hair
ston for a loss, and then forced 
Oberlin into a fourth and eight 
situation by knocking down a pass. 
Bill Halstead made a fine defen
sive play battering down Quar
terback Dan Duffeys pass, and 
the Tartans took over on their 
own 28.
But the Tartans could not move 
the ball, and after an exchange of 
punts, CMU started a drive on its 
own 37, Batorskis determination 
gave CMU its initial first down 
as he brike two tackles and ran 
20 yards to Oberlins 34-yard line. 
Dave Thomas gained six yards 
up the middle and Lombardo 
picked up a first down on the 22- 
yard line. A 5-yard penalty and 
three incomplete passes set up 
a fourth down and 15 from the 27. 
Lombardo fought his way to 
the six. Then on a fourth down 
play Rich Squires pass was thrown 
behind Tony Bugel, who made a 
stumbling catch but fell two yards 
short of pay dirt as he lost his 
footing.
Tartans strike first
Fine defensive plays by Chernay and Larry Getto forced Ober
lin to punt. Baclawskis punt was 
returned by Chemay to Oberlins 
49-yard line. After Batorski pick
ed up six yards, Squires faked a 
handoff and hit Thomas, who ran 
to the 15-yard line. From the 12 
Squires scrambled around and 
then spotted Chemay, who made a 
diving catch just inside the endzone. 
CMU led 7-0 early in the second 
quarter after Chemays conver
sion split the uprights.
After the ensuing kick-off, Gary 
Meilahn recovered an Oberlin fum
ble on the visitors 42-yard line. 
Squires dropped back to pass, 
couldnt find an open receiver, 
and scrambled for an apparent 
first down. Unfortunately, Tech 
was called for a personal foul 
and the referee stepped off fifteen 
yards. It was on this play that 
Squires dropped back to pass, could
nt find an open receiver, and scramSquires was tackled hard and injured 
his arm, leaving it partially numb 
70 yard pass play
Gettos punt rolled dead on the 
Oberlin 27 and after the yeomen pick
ed up a first down, the Tech defense 
appeared to be improving. Get
to and Batorski racked Jim Fa
bian after a short gain, and Denny 
Morabito trapped Duffey for a 
ten-yard loss. The rush was on again 
on the next play as Ron Horn 
narrowly missed Duffey, but the 
Oberlin quarterback shook loose 
and fired a pass to Jon Davies who 
outran two defenders and scored 
nn a 70-vard play. Ashtons kick 
tied the score.
On The Sports Scene
Football Is 
A Contact Sport
Ii cF Ft2l2P 2hSmhs C$,Smr tAnm,S
Joe Chemay hauls in first of two TD grabs against Oberlin.
Lombardo returned the kickoff 
to the 33-yard line and Tech march
ed 67-yards for a touchdown. 
A 14-yard pass to Chernay and a 
15-yard pass to Bugel on a broken 
pattern were the key plays in the 
drive. Thomas plunged in for the 
score and Chernays kick was good. 
Interceptions and fumbles halted 
both teams for the remainder of 
the quarter, and Tech entered the 
dressing room leading 14-7 at the 
half.
FOOTBALL STATISTICS
Oberlin 0 7 14 728
Carnegie 0 14 7 728
CMU Oberlin
20. First Downs 18
269 Yards Running 184
173 Yards Passing 233
37-14-2 Passes 27-13-0
6-35.2 Punts 4-34.3
2 Fumbles Lost 4
10-96 Penalties 3-35
CMU  Chemay, 12, pass from 
Squires (Chemay kick) 7-0 
Oberlin  Davies, 70, pass from 
Duffey (Ashton kick) 7-7 
CMU  Thomas, 1, run (Chemay 
kick) 14-7 
Oberlin  Duffy, 16, run (Ashton 
kick) 14-14 
Oberlin  Duffy, 1, run (Ashton 
kick) 21-14 
CMU  Batorski, 20, run (Chemay 
kick) 21-21 
CMU  CHemay, 23, pass from 
Squires VsChemay kick) 28-21 
Oberlin  Donlan, 48, pass from 
Duffey (Ashton kick) 28-28
Bill Roberts halted CMUs 
first offensive effort when play 
resumed as he intercepted a pass 
on the sidelines, and Squires tack
led him on the CMU 35-yardline. 
A fourth down pass to Hicks gave 
Oberlin a first down on the 16. 
F rom there Duffey rambled into 
the end zone, and the kick tied the 
score.
After halting Tech on four downs, 
Oberlin took the lead as they cov
ered 70 yards in eleven plays. Paul 
Matus raced 26 yards around left 
end until he was caught from be
hind by Batorski at the 11. Two 
plays later, Duffey scored from 
the one-foot line on a quarter
back sneak and Ashtons kick put 
Oberlin in front for the first 
time.
CMUs defense was given a tough 
test when Oberlin recovered a 
Tech fumble on the Tartan 15- 
yard line. Getto, Stalker, Horn, 
and Meilhan stopped the running 
attack. A 15-yard penalty and an in
complete pass gave the Tartans 
the ball on the 27.
Ground attack leads to tds
At this point, CMU moved the 
ball exceptionally well on the 
ground as they marched 73 yards 
in seven plays. Lombardo bulled 
his way through the middle as 
he picked up 34 yards on two car
ries. Batorski, aided by Bugels 
block, ran 19-yards on a sweep 
around right end for the touch
down Chemays conversion tied 
the score at 21.
After exchanging punts, Tech 
put together a sustained 66-yard 
drive, mixing runs and passes well. 
Joe Chemay reached over Oberlins defender, Roberts, and made 
a fantastic catch of Squires pass in 
the edzone. The 28-yard play, and 
Chernays conversion, put the Tar
tans ahead 28-21.
Depth. Manpower. These words 
will have an increasing signi
ficance to the Tartans as the sea
son progresses. There is little 
doubt that CMU has more size, 
talent, and desire this season than 
in the past. However, the 38 
man squad has many players go
ing both ways during each game 
and consequently is fatally weak
ened when a key player sustains any 
type of injury forcing him out of 
the game. This fact was extreme
ly apparent to Coach Gasparella 
and the 2000 Tartan fans in the tie 
with Oberlin this Saturday when 
Rich Squires and Larry GasparelRich Squires and Larry Getto 
could not perform at one hund
red per cent efficiency.
Squires elbow was hit in the 
second quarter and he had dif
ficulty feeling the ball with two 
of his fingers. This minor injury 
took the zip out of Squires pass
es causing some surplus incom
pletions and two interceptions.
He showed no fear of contact 
when tackling Oberlins Roberts 
along the sidelines after he inter
cepted a Squires pass. Squires 
mobility was not impaired, howev
er, as he faked and ran well through
out the game. On one key play Rich 
rolled to his right, couldnt find a 
receiver, then scrambled back 10 
yards and rolled left a la Fran Tarkenton before connecting on a 12 
yard aerial.
Squires has fired five touch
down passes in his initial two games 
for CMU. Joe Chernay has been 
on the receiving end of four of them 
and Tony Bugel caught the other. 
Chemays finger tip grabs, and efforts 
on defense and on the suicide 
squads has earned him entrance into 
the MVP category on the Tartan 
squad.
Chemay also leads the team in 
scoring with thirty points.
&
. , , ... , Getto reinjured his left knee,Oberlin struck back quickly, when the same knee that was banged op
Duffey completed a strike to Pat 
Dunlon, who picked up some blocks 
and raced 53 yards for the score. 
The Yeomen elected to go for the 
tie instead of trying for a twopoint conversion, and Ashton put 
the kick through the uprights. With 
7:42 remaining in the game, the 
score was tied.
Oberlin misses field goal 
CMU roared back as a pass to 
Tepsic, runs by Batorski and Lomin last weeks game at Thiel. 
On the play following Gettos 
temporary removal from the 
game, Oberlin quarterback Duffey 
tossed a 70 yard pass to Davies. 
At his middle linebacker position. 
Getto solidifies the defense by be
ing in the right place at the 
right time to stop a draw play or 
screen pass.
Tom Lombardo, with 92 yards 
in 11 carries, and Ken Batorski, with
bardo, and a roughness penalty gave 94 yards in 15 carries, deserve
Tech a first down on the 20. Af 
ter a five-yard penalty against 
CMU, Sluires completed a pass to 
Chernay on the 13. Tech then scor
ed an apparent touchdown, but 
the referee called the play back,
(Continued on Page 13)
CMU FOOTBALL COACHES
Joe Gasparella, Notre Dame 
(head coach)
Edward Fay, Notre Dame 
Jessie Quatse, Pitt 
Bill Sullivan, St. Vincent 
David Coe, Lock Haven
The 2hSmhs sports department 
apologies for its error in the 
coaches listing in last weeks is
sue. _____
recognition for standout perform
ances at the setback positions. 
With Squires unable to pass with 
his normal accuracy, the running 
backs had to take up the slack to 
put points on the board, and they 
were equal to the task. The effec
tiveness of the ground game can 
also be attributed to the solid block
ing by the offensive line, and the 
Tartans decision to run plays 
to the weak sideaway from Ober
lins Monster Man defensive 
lineman.
Fumbles were used by each 
offense to give up the ball a total 
of six times during the game. 
CMU defensive backs forced a pair 
of berlin fumbles by hitting pass 
receivers hard immediately after
they had made their receptions. 
The Tartans got a break on one 
series of plays when a fumseries of plays when a fumble 
squirted forward five yards but a 
Carnegie lineman pounced on the 
ball. On one Oberlin fumble, the 
quarterback handed off to his 
setback after the back had run past 
him and the non-handoff was re
covered by a CMU defender.
The final two minutes of the 
game resulted in excitement which 
should not be experienced by any 
partisan or coach with a weak 
heart. Squires had engineered a 
drive downfield and threw a per
fect pass into the arms of Tep
sic who had his defender cleanly 
beaten for an apparent TD. Un
fortunately, he was one step out 
of the end zone when he pulled 
the pass in. Then Squires was 
stopped a yard short of a first 
down on the fourth down play. 
He couldnt find a receiver open 
and ran up the middle but an Ober
lin lineman stopped Squires cold.
The Tartans wanted to stop Ober
lin fast and get the ball back for a 
final attempt to break the dead
lock. But the Yeoman marched 
down to the eleven yard linethe kay play being an option run by 
the quarterback who lateraled to 
his halfback at the last second to 
sweep wide for a crucial first 
down. With merely ten seconds 
remaining, the Oberlin coach sent 
in the kicker, who muffed the at
tempt from the eighteen to leave 
the score at 28-28.
Ths years freshman class seems 
to be more innovative than their 
predecessors as they try to gen
erate school spirit (a term which 
may be growing archaic) in all 
of their activities. Saturdays 
football game was no exception 
as six frosh guys donned the gay 
apparel of members of the oppo
site sex and tried to compete (or 
possibly collaborate) with the 
cheerleaders. ..The half time enter
tainment was provided by the 
Kiltie band along with the high 
school bands from McKeesport 
and Wilkinsburg . . . Oberlin was 
aided by numerous CMU penalties 
which totaled 96 yards . . . The 
Tartans rarely end their football 
games in a tie. In fact the last 
Tech deadlock was November 2, 
1957, vs. Geneva.
The Soccer team won its second 
game of the season Saturday, 
3-2, in an unscheduled contest 
against Youngstown. The team 
has rounded into a cohesive unit 
since its inception a few weeks 
ago and has proyen itself worthy 
of its recently achieved varsity 
status. However, the athletic de
partment has refused to allow the 
soccer team to play its home games 
on the football field. Also known 
as the Tech Bowl, the football 
field is ideally suited for soccer
team to the smoother turf and the 
stands for students and other spec
tators. Soccer cleats could not rip 
up the field much more than the 
football spikes. If the women s 
field hockey team can use the 
field a not amens varsity team 
there seems to be little logic be
hind the decision.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 9, 1968THE TARTANPage 13
Tartans Earn Second Soccer Win
by Dave Vinish
The CMU soccer team defeat
ed Youngstown University at 
Youngstown by a score of 3-2. 
This was the second victory in 
three decisions for coach Joseph 
Kruths battling booters as they 
demonstrated improved ball con
trol, passing and endurance.
Youngstown struck first early 
in the first half. The Tartans re 
taliated soon afterwards when 
John Chiang dribbled past the 
Youngstown defense to knot the
score at 1-1. Henrik Palme, the 
leading Carnegie scorer, then 
tallied his fourth goal of the sea
son to put the Tartans ahead 2-1 
at half time.
Another goal by Youngstown 
even the score at 2-3, but, once 
more, the Tartans offense came 
charging back. Luis Rosanes 
fired the winning goal into the 
net with five minutes remaining 
in the game to give CMU a 3-2 
victory.
^Jicbet Out Friday. Jor Summertree
On Friday, Oct. 11, tickets for 
Summertree, the first Drama De
partment production, will be giv
en out from 3:30 to 5:50 pm. 
Summertree was written by 22- 
year-old Ron Cowen and was 
done at the New York Lincoln 
Center last year to much acclaim.
The story deals with a young 
man who is killed in Vietnam and 
the relationships to his family, 
his girl and himself as boy,
young man and soldier. The play, 
directed by Henry Boettcher (who 
directed last seasons smash hit 
Ah Wilderness) will open on Sat
urday night, Oct. 19. and will 
then play Oct. 21-26 and again 
Oct. 28 and 29. Tickets will be 
available on the first floor of the 
Fine Arts Building in front of 
the Drama Office. Current IDCards 
must be shown and only one ticket 
will be given per card.
fy/Aa /ut/qbesifr...After you've met the challenge?
If you're the kind of Civil Engineer we're looking for, you'll start search
ing for another one to conquer. Here 
at the Pennsylvania Department of 
Highways, we offer a host of challenges to the right man. But, to be 
that right man, you've got to be pretty 
special.
You see, we search out and encour
age Civil Engineers whom we consider capable of grasping a challenge; skilled men, comparable to the great 
Engineers who are "building Tomor
row today in Pennsylvania." If you 
can measure up to the standards 
necessary to fulfill Pennsylvania's $10 
billion plan to lead the nation in high
ways, we'd consider it a challenge just to get to know you.
A Pennsylvania Department of Highways Career Representative will 
visit your campus. To arrange for an 
appointment, or if you desire 
additional information, contact the 
placement office.
b1y.2b.5 gMy.l
OCTOBER 29, 1968
Pennsylvania Department of Highways
Bureau ot Personnel 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120
Harriers Edged 
by Grove City
by Don Baer
The CMU Cross Country team 
opened its season with a loss to 
the Grove City Harriers on the 
Grove City Course. Senior CoCaptain Bemie Flynn led the 
Tartans and won the race. He 
was followed by Warner from 
Grove City, who outsprinted 
CMU Freshman Juan Rodriquez 
and Jon Manon. Four more 
Grove City runners finished be
fore Senior Don Baer, who took 
a disappointing ninth. After two 
more GC runners finished, the 
scoring was complete with the 
last CMU scoring position given 
the maximum number of 12 
points. Final Score: Grove City 
28, CMU 29.
In spite of losing to Grove City, 
the team still showed good poten
tial. It is hoped that the team will 
gel before Wednesday when they 
meet Cleveland State and Adelbert College in Cleveland. The 
first home meet is next Saturday 
against Bethany on the Schenley 
Park Course at 11 a.m.
(Continued from Page 12)
as Tepsic caught Squires pass 
over the endline of the endzone. 
With fourth and three from the 13, 
Squires could not find an open re
ceiver and was nailed for a loss; 
thus the Yeomen took possession 
with less than three minutes re
maining.
Using sideline passes and time 
outs, Oberlin put together a des
peration drive which carried them 
to Techs 11-yard line. Ashtons 
28-yard field goal attempt with ten 
seconds remaining was wide to 
the right, and the game ended in a 
standoff.
The Tartans travel to Grovt 
City this Saturday and will be 
seeking to avenge last seasons 
30-12 loss. Game time is 2:00 
p.m.
The New Yearbook 
The Thistle
Is Still On Sale!
Go the Thistle office, room 
53, Skibo, on Sundays at 
2 p.m.
IM Review
___ ____ , f
Ferrel rips off yardage in SAEs 75-0 rout of DU.
Well, the intramural program is underway once more at CMU 
with football games and tennis matches played last week leading the 
way. Mr. Birdie has replaced Mr. Boyer as director of intramural ac
tivities and brings three years of experience at this post with him 
(1955-58) . BTP will be trying to defend its football title and will re
ceive a tough battle from SAE, ATO, TDP and the Old Men. The EJs 
are favored to repeat as tennis champs.
In a hard fought defensive 
battle ATO B, leading all the 
way, scored 12 points in the last 
quarter to down the Architects 
17 to 7. SN A trounced over 
DU J by the score of 43 to 1. 
DU J was then completely ob
literated by SAE Purple 85 
to 0. It could have been called a 
defensive battle since SAE had 
established a 24-point lead mid
way into the second quarter be
fore their offensive unit entered 
the game.
Standings: WIN LOSS
1. N.A.D.S. 1 0
2. PKA 1 0
3. DU A i i
4 BTP A o 0
5. EJ Carp o 1
6. TDP J o 1
Brownss League: WIN LOSS
1. ATO A
2. TDP A
3. PKT
4. SNB
5. E.J. Bandits
6. BTP C
Standings:WINLOSS
1. SAE Purple
2. SNA
1
1
0
0Tennis:
3. Architects01Plaid League: WINLOSS
4. BSR00E.J. Blue10
5. EJ Warts002. DU01
6. ATO B103 BTP A007. DU J024. PKT
5. SAE
0
1
0
1
Colts League:WIN LOSS6. SN B00
1. Old Men10
2. EJ Thorny10Tartan League:WIN LOSS
3. BTP B101. E.J. Red2 0
4. KS202. DTD0 1
5. DTP013. SN A0 0
6. TX014. E.J. White0 0
7. SAE Gold 025. ATO1 1
6. BTP B0 1
Packers League:IM Board Officers
In the PackersLeague, DUHarold Here BTPPresident
downed an inspired TDPBJames JacksVice-Presteam 25-14. TDP B managed to 
narrow the margin to one point 
in the third quarter, 13-12, on 
touchdown passes from Roth to 
Lenhart, and to Brean. DU 
bounced back, however, with a 
two touchdown third quarter ral
ly. Friday evening, the N.A.D.S. 
(New Administration Defiance 
Society) convincingly defeated 
the same DU A team 26-16. 
Four interceptions, three by John 
Wehner and one by Mark Sternole stiffled DUs offense while 
quarterback Kent Mikus tossed 
three T.D. passes to John Wehner 
to lead the offense. The Nads, 
an all-freshman team, opened with 
two touchdowns and never lost 
command of the game. Korbett 
scored two touchdowns for the 
losers.
dent
Alan Zendel TDP Sec. Tressury
Managers Club Officers
Mike Silver 
Lou Malizia
Ed Dolbow
EJs President 
SAE Vice-Presi
dent 
SN Sec. Trea
sury
Officials Club
Harold Herre President
The next managers club 
meeting will be on Tuesday. Oct. 
15, at 12:30 p.m.
Due Dates:
Soccer Tuesday Oct. 15
Volleyball Tuesday Oct 22
Squash Tuesday Oct. 2$
Bowling Tuesday Oct. 29

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TART ANWednesday, October 9, 1968
Action At C'MU Home Opener
