^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53  NUMBER 1 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1960
Food Service Problems 
Solved By Schedule
Because of several unforseen labor-management disputes, 
the completion of the new student activities center, SKIBO, 
has been delayed. Since SKIBO will provide full food service 
for the campus, the delay in opening will present problems
in feeding the campus. ?----------------------
It appears, however, that these ! 1
problems are being resolved, and j ttiiyme uueen
barring further incident, all of us: *
-hould be enjoying the most mod- I (jllOS611
era food service in SKIBO by the 
second week in October. In the 
meantime, temporary food service 
for all studentsboth mer and 
women  will be provided as 
shown below.
TEMPORARY SCHEDULE FOR 
STUDENT FOOD SERVICE
I. For UNDERGRADUATE and 
GRxYDUATE STUDENTS 
Men and Women
A. MOREWOOD GARDENS  
MAIN DINING ROOMS (see 
note No. 1)
Monday through Saturday:
Breakfast ............... 7:30 to 10:30
Lunch .....................11:00 to 2:00
Dinner...................4:30 to 7:00
Sunday:
Breakfast .............. 8:00 to 10:30
Lunchor Dinner.... 11:00 to 2:00 
dinner or Supper.;. 4:30 to 7:00
B. MOREWOOD GARDENS  
TEMPORARY SNACK BAR 
(in Rumpus Rooma la 
Carte)
11:00 to 4:00 daily, except Sat
urday and Sunday.
MENU: Hot Dogs, Hamburgers, 
pie-wrapped assorted sandwiches, 
Soups, Beverages (dairy and 
coffee), ice cream, cake, pie.
II. FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS 
) ONLY
MUDGE GRADUATE HOUSE 
Daily
Breakfast ................. 7:30 to 9:00
residents of Mudge only
Lunch .......................11:30 to 1:30
open to all graduate students
Dinner....................... 5:00 to 6:15
residents of Mudge only 
(Mudge Food Service closed for 
Sunday Supper)
NOTES:
'1/ All contract students at Morewood Gardens will use Main 
Dining Rooms for their meals 
on table dhote basis; all oth
ers will be served a la carte. 
(2) Various areas in the academic 
buildings will be available for 
students carrying their 
lunches. The Dean of your 
college will inform you of the 
room or area to be used by 
you.
Students desiring to eat their 
lunches in Administration Hall 
may use AH - 233.
All oiganizatlons and in
dividuals who want to make 
use of the Bulletin Board or 
TARTAN pages for the pur
poses of advertising and an
nouncing meetings are re
quested to turn their material 
into Morewood desk in care 
of the TARTAN by Friday 
night at 7:30. All those who 
have newsworthy items or 
desire publicity for an organ
ization are invited to call Phil 
James or Dave Pearson to 
obtain a TARTAN reporter 
to write the article for the 
organization.
All freshmen girls: give attention to these lines,
Theyll tell you how to choose 
the future Queen of Rhyme, 
For youre to nominate a girl 
who will reign over all 
During Homecoming Weekend: 
so please heed our call.
Today at 4:45 in Exhibition Hall 
of Fine Arts, the Freshmen wo
men will nominate the girls they 
want to represent their class as 
the Homecoming Queen and her 
court. From all the girls in the 
class, they will nominate fourteen 
or fifteen girls, and then from 
these, vote for seven finalists. The 
girls are to be chosen not only 
for their good looks, but also for 
their pleasing personalities. Youll 
judge this from the answers can
didates give to the questions asked 
by the committee.
Election
The queen and her court will 
be selected Tuesday. October 18, 
by the men on campus. This first 
big election of the school year 
will be conducted by APhi O. na
tional service fraternity, who will 
set up voting booths in different 
places on campus.
Homecoming will be held the 
week-end of October 21. The 
theme is Return to Rhyme 
which includes topics from chil
drens nursery rhymes, but ex
cludes Aesops Fables and 
Grimms Fairy Tales.
Fraternities and sororities were 
told the thomc this -nreek-end and
they reported their choice of 
special topics Monday. Fraterni
ties traditionally build displays 
and sororities present skits gear
ed to the theme. The groups are 
judged and prizes presented for 
the best offerings at the semiformal dance on Saturday evening.
Dave Mears, Homecoming chair
man, is assisted by: John Oehler, 
vice chairman; Jerry Lehman, 
treasurer; Paul Oesik, ticket sales; 
Tom Vandersalm, displays; Jane 
Potter, varsity carieties; Wilma 
Fetcho, judges; Vivienne Heinrecker, secretary; George Nieman, 
Call Day.
Also Steve Ernst, publicity; 
Phil James, pep rally; Denny 
Kompari, bands; Rick Tomaseski, 
trophies; Lann Malesky, dance de
corations; Toni Sams and John 
Batardi, queens; Arlene Logioco, 
press representative.
WRCT To 
Cover Games
WRCT, Radio Carnegie Tech 
will broadcast all Tech football 
games this year. As in the past, 
away games will be broadcast re
mote with the cooperation of the 
telephone company.
The radio staff will keep its 
own records of the plays and in
clude all pertinent facts and fig
ures during the quarter and half 
times.
Film Arts Has 
Fine Films 
To Offer Tecli
The Film Arts Society of Car
negie Institute of Technology an
nounces its forthcoming series of 
film classics to be shown Thurs
day afternoons and evenings from 
September through January on 
the Tech campus.
The society calls special atten
tion to several very rare pro
grams that have been arranged 
through the courtesy of French 
and German film archives. These
are G. W. Pabsts classic Kam-im :radschaft and Rene Clairs 
immortal comedy The Last Mil
lionaire, both of which may 
never be seen in this country 
again. Other outstanding films in 
the fall series include: Ingmar 
Bergmans The Seventh Seal, 
Alec Guinness The Ladykillers, King Vidors The Big Par
ade," Roberto Rosselinis Open 
City, the mysterious Cabinet of 
Dr. Caligari, and many others.
This fall series also inaugurates 
a special program of films that 
will be shown on the second Sun
day of erery month. This 'is a 
special exclusive series of four in
dividual program's devoted to the 
Classic Silent Comedians, and 
includes the outstanding work of 
Harry Langdon, Buster Keaton, 
and Charlie Chaplin. This special 
Sunday series is a regular part of 
membership in the society, and 
will feature live piano and per
cussion accompaniment to set the 
period and entertain. This unique 
series on The Classic Silent 
Comedians* cannot and will not 
be shown in any other theatre in 
the country.
The regular series of outstand
ing film classics is presented each-V fro-"~T
and 9:30 p.m. in Porter Hall 100 
on Techs campus, commencing 
September 29th with The Ladykillers. Admission is by season 
membership only, costing $3.00 for 
the entire series of eighteen films 
which may b<; purchased at the 
door this Thursday.
Scheid Named Head 
Graphic Arts Dept.
Dr. J. C. Warner, President, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, recently announced the appointment of Kenneth G. 
Scheid as head of the newly established Department of 
Graphic Arts in the Carnegie College of Fine Arts.
The new Department H e a d4--------------------
comes to Carnegie Tech from the sertation is on Systems of PerWharton School of Finance and sonnel Administration in the BosCommerce at the University of ; ton Graphic Arts Industry. 
Pennsylvania where he has served. In 1945 he served as an Ensign 
as a Lecturer and Executive Sec- j in the United States Naval Reretary of the Labor Relations j serve in Manila and remained the 
Council since 1959. Prior to that following year with the Department of State as Asst, to the Di
rector of Sales for the Foregn Li
quidation Commission. From 1947- 
49, he was the Principal Wage and 
Salary Analyst with General Mills, 
Inc. and returned to M.I.T. in 1951, 
as a Teaching Assistant in Labor 
Economics. The following year 
Mr. Scheid served as an Econo
mist on the Wage Stabilization 
'IV'; v O !
he was employed for six years as 
Industrial Relations Manager for 
the Forbes Lithograph Manufac
turing Co. in Chelsea. Mass. Dur
ing his stay with the Forbes Co., 
he also served as Coordinator of 
Graphic Arts Courses at Boston 
University and as Chairman of the 
Management Education Committee 
of the Graphic Arts Institute of 
New England.
Carnegies new Department of 
Graphic Arts, as announced last j 
January, wfii provide a complete 
course of study in either graphic 
arts design or graphic arts man
agement. The Design option will 
prepare students for careers in ad
vertising, packaging, calligraphic 
and book design, while the Man
agement option, which will be 
closely connected with present 
courses in the Department of In
dustrial Management, will prepare 
students to meet the requirements 
of business management as well 
as give them knowledge of the 
basic graphic arts processes. The 
new and expanded department j 
will replace the School of Printing '
Management, to be discontinued in LUMMUE5 G, 35N------------in Washington and then ae0 . ., . , . . jcepted a position with the FortiesMr. Scheid received his B.S. de- ; . ,
gree in Chemical Engineering and Llthograph Manufacturing Co. Mr. 
Business Administration from the Scheid will hold a joint appointMassachusetts Institute of Tech- ; ment at Carnegie as Associate Pronology and his M.B.A. in Indus 
trial Relations from the Univer
sity of Chicago. His doctoral disSt. Vincent Edges Plaid 
First West-Penn Clash
Carnegie Tech scored twice in for the final Tech T.D. Both times 
the first quarter but failed to stop 
the St. Vincents Bearcats in the 
middle periods as Tech lost a 13- 
12 decision. This was the first 
game for both of the two West 
Penn Conference teams.
The difference seemed to be in 
the hard-charging Bearcat line as 
both of the extra point trys by 
Tech were blocked. Tech stayed 
in the game by the expert passing 
of Pete Bouxsein, as they rolled 
up 181 yards through the air.
Rushing statistics showed that St.
Vincent picked up 197 yards and 
11 first downs on the ground while 
Tech was held to 128 yards and 
5 first downs.
Tech scored early as Marty 
Poad took a 20 yard aerial from 
Bullet Bouxsein, Later in the 
quarter Tech back Furman Smith 
broke loose and romped 35 yards
fessor of Graphic Arts and Econ
omics.
Important Program
Norman L, Rice, Dean of the 
College of Fine Arts, in commentj ing upon the new appointment and 
; realization of the new department 
| said, The College of Fine Art3 
| is enthusiastic about the addition 
of the new department and the 
opportunity it gives us to enhance 
| the graphic design curriculum 
the extra point kick was attempted j ^as t>een an important part
by Ken Sutherland but was block- oi our Program for many years, 
ed immediately. I The management option, he eonLittle Mike Scatera scored both !tmuec^ .wM be closely coorditimes for the Bearcats as he took i with present Industrial
a ten yard end run and a five yard . Management courses and Mr, 
plunge for the two touchdowms. j5 ,  own Interest and his 
The winners extra point was; Jcnov'1 ledge of management probbooted by Bill Beck. Ilems strengthens our opportuniLate in the final quarter Tech i ties to Provitle exceptional rewas stopped on the St. Vincent I sources in management education
5 yard line, climaxing a 75 yard j m the Sraphic arts, 
drive. Here is where Tech at- j A frequent contributor to 
tempted the field goal that was I graphic arts journals, Mr. Scheid
unsuccessful.
The standout in the game were 
Scatera for St. Vincent as he av
eraged 5 yards a carry and Fur
man Smith for Tech as he 'Vlled 
up 92 yards in ten tries for a 9.2 
yard average.
Carnegie Tech 12 0 0 0 12
St. Vincent 0 7 6 0 13
is also a member of the Education 
Council of the Graphic Arts In
dustry, the Education Commissiof Lithograph Technical Founr* 
tion, the American Econ< 
Assn., the Industrial Relations re
search Assn., the National Plan
ning Assn., and the American 
Management Assn.

---------------------------------------------------

 ^
VOLU ME 5 VOLUME5M 3N3B 5 RU1WUD1OSA YU,PUT2U8 960 Meca
HAIRTONIC
TRADE MARK
* *
A broad study of the adjective BRM in syntax with BRM soir, BRM ami and 
BRM grooming. Lecture on bon grooming with Vaseline Hair Tonic 
illustrating the fact that Vaseline Hair Tonic replaces oil that water
r--------------af nrluxusoA oflui'ts nr* Koir rccillhn(J from flrVJUiT
action of water compounded by hair creams and alcohol tonics. Exhibi
tion of how bad grooming puts you out of context with the opposite 
sex. Special emphasis on how Vaseline Hair Tonic keeps hair neater 
longer and attracts women as Paris does tourists. Homework drills on 
Saturday evenings stressing plurals rather than singulars. Course aims 
at getting along in any language .. . especially the language of love.
1UWMU DNSSUO AYUDUY 5R,,UO P5R ,U 
T28OUSNMU9 68NY 0RMN DRY BRM eYRR,NMecVaseline
In the bottle and on your hair 
the difference is clearly there!
BULLETIN 
BOARD
Scholarships
Seniors and graduate students 
who want information about Fulbright, Marshall, or Rhodes Scho
larships for foreign study or who 
wish to apply for an award should 
see Mr. Parshall. AH 260, as soon 
as possible. There is no restriction 
*o rtfid of study.
The deadline for complete Fulbright applications is October 20. 
Marshall and Rhodes applications 
must be completed and mailed not 
later than October 29.
Students interested in applying 
for one of these scnolarships 
should discuss the idea with their 
department head and receive his 
endorsement as a promising appli
cant before they see Mr. Parshall.
Basketball
BASKETBALL MEETINGS
FreshmenWednesday. Sept. 28
VarsityThursday, Sept. 29 
4:30 p.m.Gymnasium 
Players and Managers
Newman Club
Members of Evening School 
Newman Club are invited to come 
and bring their friends to an in
formal dance and social meeting 
at Mt. Mercy on Friday, Septem
ber 30. at 9:00 p.m.
Film Arts Personnel
The Film Arts Society, starting 
its ninth season next week is look
ing for individuals to serve as 
house managers during the weekly 
presentations. The society is also 
in need of a projectionist, who is 
familiar with motion picture pro
jection equipment. Those inter
ested in either of these positions 
should contact Bill Pence, MU 
3-0950. as soon as possible.
Varsity
All Freshmen and Upperclass
men who are interested in trying 
out as players or managers for 
the following teams, are request
ed to report to the Athletic Office, 
102 Gymnasium:
Football
Cross-Country
Basketball
Swimming
Rifle
Golf
Tennis
Track
Film Arts Tickets
The Film Arts Society opens its 
ninth season this Thursday, Sepi tember 29, with Alec Guinness 
most noted comedy, The LadyKillers. This will be followed 
next week by Ingmar Bergmans 
modern classic, The Seventh 
Seal. There ai'e eighteen films in 
the entire series (four more than 
in previous years) and season 
memberships are $3.00 each which 
may be purchased at the door 
prior to the showings oi The 
Lady-killers. Showings are ev
ery Thursday at 4:30, 7:00, and 
9:30 in Porter Hal 100.
ODK Calls
Omicron Delta Kappa, the sen
ior mens activities honorary is 
preparing to make its fall call to 
membership. In order to be eligi
ble for membership, a person 
must have a high scholastic aver
age and head a major campus or
ganization. If you wish to be con
sidered for membership, write 
John P. Crecine, president at the 
Beta Theta Pi fraternity house 
listing your qualifications.
I Tuesday Series 
Take Theme of 
66Art Nouveau
The Tuesday series of eleven 
oclock lectures by Gordon Wash
burn to be given in the Lecture 
Hall of Carnegie Institute take 
their theme from the exhibition 
Art Nouveau that opens the 
Fine Arts season. The first lec
ture, Gaugin and Art Nouveau, 
on October 18, will introduce 
Gauguin as the major influence on 
at the turn of the cen\vhen the Art Nouveau style 
flourished. This lecture will also 
deal with the architecture . and 
decorative arts that will be so 
richly displayed in the exhibition 
which comes to Pittsburgh from 
The Museum of Modern Art in 
New York and opens Friday, Octo
ber 21. The next four lectures will 
continue to trace the development 
of the Modern Movement in Art 
from this point of departure. 
Each will concentrate on a key 
artist as the focal point of a ma
jor trend in twentieth century 
painting. Mr. Washburn will hope 
to reveal that the work and that 
the Art Nouveau period (1859- 
1905) introduces the direction of 
| art in our day. The exhibition 
will contain a number of notable 
| and valuable canvases by Gauguin 
including his famous Yellow 
Christ/ his Agony in the Gar
den, and his Still Life with 
Three Puppies, as weH as many 
of his woodcuts, and will be en
riched with other masterpieces not 
included in the New York show
ing. The list of lectures and their 
dates: 
Gaugin and Art Nouveau. .Oct. 18 
Matisse and the Fauves... Oct. 25
Picassa and Cubism .......Nov. 1
Klee and Expressionism. . Nov. 8 
Miro and Surrealism ....Nov. 15
Publicity Director Necdetl ^ 
For Valuable S&S Position
The Scotch n Soda Club, now 
in full gear for its 1961 spring 
production, ANIMATION, is 
searching for an upperclassman 
to become its publicity director.
The Publicity Director of Scotch 
n Soda is perhaps one of the key 
personnel in club activity. This 
person is responsible for the campus-wide, city-wide, and yes, per
haps even nation-wide promotion 
for America's top collegiate mu
sical. The Publicity Director 
meets periodically with leadeiS on
the campus __ community, civic 
leaders of Pittsburgh, and the 
press and communications media 
in the execution of his work. Tru
ly, it is an opportunity for a qual
ified Tech student to make con
tacts and experience that may 
someday prove valuable.
Letters of application by Tech 
students who are interested in this 
position should be addressed as 
soon as possible to the Board of 
Directors  Scotch n Soda, Box 
258.
(v7 77777777
- REVELATION 
IS
^ COMING!
^7 77 777777
xi
VI
VI
VI
VI
vi
Camposwith>6jc9hu3man
aVWE5RY RD us IFos 8 0UUMo8eU fP8YDv05U r8Ml 
nRbUO RD fRBNU -NmNO, UEgt
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH, DEAR 
FRIENDS
Today, if I ant a little misty, who can blame me? For today I 
begin my seventh year of writing columns for the maker* of 
Marlboro Cigarettes.
Seven years! Can it be possible? It seems only yesterday I 
walked into the Marlboro offices, my knickers freshly pressed, 
my cowlick wetted down, my oilcloth pencil box clutched in 
my tiny hand. Sirs, I said to the makers of Marlboroa 
handsome an aggregation of men a you will find in a month 
of Sundays, as agreeable as the cigarettes they makemild yet 
hearty, robust yet gentle, flip-top yet soft pack Sire, I 
said to this assemblage of honest tobacconists, I have come to 
write a column for Marlboro Cigarettes in college newspapers 
across the length ancl breadth of this great free land of America. 
We shook hands thensilently, not trusting ourselves to 
speakand one of the makers whipped out a harmonica and we, 
sang sea chanties and bobbed for apples and played Run, 
Sheep, Run, and smoked good Marlboro Cigarettes until the 
campfire had turned to embers. d
What will you write about in your column? asked one of 
the makers whose name is Trueblood Strongheart.
*
FRENCH 1-2 
Objectives of Adjectives 
Prof. Amour
i
About the burning issues that occupy the lively minds of 
college America, I replied. About such vital questions as: 
feUould the Student Council have the power to levy taxes? 
Should proefore fcw juemed? cota go out for football?*
And will you say a kind word from time to time about 
Marlboro Cigarettes, asked one of the makers whose name is 
Honor Bright.
Why, bless you, sirs, I replied, chuckling silverly, there 
is no other kind of word except a DYNMp word to say about 
Marlboro Cigarettesthe filter cigarette with the unfiltered 
tastethat happy combination of delicious tobacco and ex
clusive selectrate filterthat loyal companion in fair weather or 
foul that joy of the purest ray serene.
There was another round of handshakes then and the makers 
squeezed my shoulders and I squeezed theirs and then we each 
squeezed our .own. And then I hied me to my typewriter and 
began the first of seven years of columning for the makers of 
Marlboro Cigarettes.
And today as I find myself once more at my typewriter, once 
more ready to begin a new series of columns, perhaps it would 
be well to explain my writing methods. I use the term writing 
methods advisedly because I am, above all things a methodical 
writer. I do not wait for the muse; I work every single day of 
the year, Sundays and holidays included. I set myself a dally 
quota and I dont let anything prevent me from achieving it. 
My quota, to be sure, is not terribly difficult to attain (it is, 
in fact, one word per day) but the important thing is hat I do 
it UbUYl ONMeSU p8lg This may seem to you a grueling schedule 
but you must remember that some days are relatively easy 
for example, the days on which I write the or a. On these 
days I can usually finish my work by noon and can devote the 
rest of the day to happy pursuits like bird-walking, monopoly, 
and {smoking Marlboro Cigarettes.
 1MKI Mm Wnilntjhft
* * *
05U ,8hUYO RD r8YSBRYR 8YU 58AAl ER BYNMe lRW 8MRE5UY 
lU8Y RD r8w 35WS,8M9O DYUUoP5UUSNMeK WMUMORYUp RSW,M 
I8Mp 8YU 8SOR 58AAl ER BYNMe r8YSBRYR yNe8YUEEUOK 8Mp DRY 
MRMoDNSEUY O,RhUYO,NSpK DS8bRYDWS .5NSNA rRYYNOgVASCUNE' ift A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHCSEBROUCH-PONDS INC.
uu

---------------------------------------------------

Swingline
stapler
no bigger 
than a pack
It was sad...
RU1WUD1OSA YU,PUT2U8 96A Mesa 5 cNBofuo 3N3B 5 vOrU Y
COME ON IN TO THE NEW OAKLAND OFFICE 
OF THE UNION NATIONAL BANK
If you live or work anywhere near the Civic Center youll be delighted with the new Oakland Office of Union National Bank. It' 
right on Forbes, near Craig. For the first time in this area, there are drive-in banking windows plus lots of free parking if you 
want to come inside (and you will, because the service is friendly). Here, you can open your free personal checking account; no 
maintenance charge, no service charge, no charge for checks, no charge for deposits if you maintain only a low $200 balanto. 
Come in and see us while the paint's still fresh I Our address is 4612 Forbes Avenue.
aiN ewmnw Clumnwlb OlwD nK (muuv7^Foi
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413 415 Federal Street, N. S.. Pittsburgh. Pa.  4612 Forbes Avenue. Oakland, Pittsburgh. Pa.
1101 Seventh Avenue. Beaver Falls, Pa,  2 2nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Falls, Pa.  Lower Burrell, Pa.  Tarent um. Pa.
Memhei Federal Reserve System Koppel, Pa. Member Feder! Deposit Insurance Corporator
Swingline Cub stapler,$1.29
INC.
j Cong Island City, New York, N.Y.
when that great ship went down and the 
last thing to leave the sinking ship was 
a bottle of Coca-Cola. Thats because all 
hands stuck to Coke to the end. Now there's 
popularity! Thats the kind of loyalty 
the sparkling lift, the good taste of Coke 
engenders. Man the lifeboats, have a Coke!
Sc hcolla
SrssipB keBpt bksFrtmsA rP nFp VrybTVrib VrCpbeA by
QVAKKR STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
Ti Central An. HI l-;*tl
SOCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
i
Including 1000 Staples
t (A do-it-yourself kit in the palm of 
your hand? Unconditionally guar
anteed, Tot makes book covers, 
fastens papers, does arts and 
crafts work, mends, tacks...no end 
of uses!
[Buy it at your college book stored
j ets at lowered prices on campus 
for various events and cultural 
features. For instance, the Broad
way plays that appear at the 
Nixon theater downtown can be 
! seen by those students who pur- i 
; chase the special tickets sold for 
Monday and Tuesday nights. Fri
day and Sunday can also be filled 
1 with entertainment by the pur
chase of student tickets to the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Concerts 
i held in the Syria Mosque of Oak
land.
Free Entertainment
Should one care to economize 
money-wise and yet still get a 
share in the citys entertainment; 
j there are many opportunities for 
j free entertainment. The drama dej partment regularly produces ex; celent plays for which students 
] can get tickets merely by present| ing an identification card at the 
, Drama department office when, the 
; tickets are put up to be given 
way. Carnegie Hall in Oakland 
j presents musical concerts, edUca| tional lectures, and art *tWKW|
Arts and Crafts Center, located on 
Shady and Fifth, also presents _ ? 
regular exhibits by Jocal and out! of-town artists.
Art Filins 
! In addition, one must not neg
lect the productions offered by the 
Craft Avenue Theater, the Hamlet 
Street theater, and the Theater 
Upstairs of the Pittsburgh Plyyi house. Nor should one let all at
tention be directed to stake pro; ductions. Besides the commercial 
movie theaters downtown and in 
Oakland, Pittsburgh has much to 
offer in the way of art movies. 
Film Arts Society of Carnegie 
Tech, the Western Psychiatric 
Hospital showings, and the art 
theaters of Squirrel Hill and 
Shadyside all bring excellent 
foreign and domestic art films to 
the interested viewers of the city.
 A good way to keep up with the 
deluge f entertainment offered in 
the city is to possess and follow a 
copy of the monthly Mortar Board 
Cultural Calendar soon to appear 
on campus.
K 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 -<
- REVELATION ^ 
IS
COMING!
777777777^
Pittsburgh & Tech Offer
I ' 'To introduce the Tartans new feature column, Social 
! Highlights, it is rather appropriate to dedicate this weeks 
column to the freshmen and in turn, introduce them to the 
j opportunities for social entertainment in town.
Time and again, there are op-^-------------  -     
! portunities to obtain student tick---------------------------------------------------

vOlL n 5 cNBobuo 3N3B 5 RU1WUD1OSA YU,PUT2U8 96A Me6-
CULTURAL
CALENDAR
tditorial
The Other Side
It seems to me that there are groups on this 
campus that are in danger of being hurt, and 1 be
lieve they have done nothing so disastrous or so detri
mental to the school that they deserve such treat
ment. The groups in question: Carnegie Tech Frater
nities. The situation that might hurt them: deferred 
rush. There are those who argue that giving the freshmen 
an entire semester to get on their feet, to think out their 
choice of fraternity is a good thing. Granted, this has inher
ent good in that the incoming freshman not only deserves, 
hmt needs time to stabilize himself in his new surroundings. 
hTowever, I can see no stabalizing effect being produced bjT 
.uttirig the freshmen off from contact with a good bit of the 
rocial entertainment, upper class advice, and upperclass 
tfriends. Ive spoken to too many freshmen boys who are 
finding too much time on their hands and are not a little 
bored with campus life in general. For no matter how much 
we try, Carnegie Tech does not have the kind of campus 
that caters to the freshmen. Following Orientation Week, 
they are left completely on their own. With the exception 
of the upperclass dorm counselors (who this year are finding 
their job a little bit trying), there are now few who are 
allowed, or who have the time, or who even care, to give a 
freshman boy enough attention to make him feel and to help 
him become a part of the campus. In this sense, deferred 
rush can be detrimental to those freshmen who need 
fraternities.
Working Force
Now the fraternities, in order to maintain themselves, 
in order to participate in all the events opened to them on ! ior ^ pictur6 mogt telked 
campus, in order to benefit most from what brotherhood i about in a long time, is now in its 
offers each member must have a working force. Again, a .second month. In the local art cirgood point of deferred rush tha* hP mentioned is that 1 cun> Sons alld Lover at *he 
^nose fraternity men who came 
s i great deal of time to get they 
lg nprovements, due to deferred 
e' the point of the working for 
>,reshmen as are needed v 
rush, as is evidenced by ft 
the tours. Should this situ^ 
diminish the numbers of met
to mention what it could do to w- *......
have too few members. What will become, or should 1 say, 
will there become the working force necessary to maintain 
a fraternity and support the benefits of the fraternity?
* Personal Contact
An argument that can be raised at this point is that de
ferred rush does not hurt the sororities who must wait a
Headers Write
This week, most of the events 
in our community seem to be cen
tered in theatre and the motion 
pictures. The legitimate theatre, 
namely the Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
in Oakland, which opened its 27th 
season last Saturday in the inti
mate Theatre Upstairs with the 
long playing hit Tevya and His 
Daughters. This play last year 
enjoyed the most successful run 
of the long list of hits, and it is 
the first play that ha sever re
opened in the community theatre.
The legitimate plays in the larger 
theater of the Playhouse, the 
Hamlet, will commence October 1 
with William Onges Dark at the 
Top of the Stairs.
The major legit house in Pitts- j Pul:)1'c opinion, 
burgh, the Nixon, is now playing 
the Broadway hit, The World of 
Susie Wong. It will be followed 
by a series of fine subscriptioned 
plays offered by the American 
Theatre Guild, including Raisen 
in the Sun and "The Music 
Man.
The Movies
In the movies, Psycho, at- the 
Penn is reaping the biggest sueA Great School?
Not too long ago Carnegie Institute of Technology 
undertook a program to increase the number of buildings 
on its property. This is not surprising in itself, but, when 
one considers that the program virtually ignored the sug
gestions and designs of its own department of Architecture, 
some concern must be felt. When the building program ad
vances in a manner as to completely inconvenience both the 
students and the faculty by taking away their one common 
meeting ground (not to mention the dining facilities) in a 
scramble to meet arbitrary deadlines, one wonders if educa
tion is not being replaced with the drive to carry out the 
Program. ?------------------
Without any outward concern 
Carnegie Tech accepted the fed
eral student financial aid program 
complete with the loyality oath. 
The decision of accepting the oath 
was laid at the feet of the stu
dents for Carnegie did not wish to 
bother to search its own soul, prefering a moral code. One might 
be concerned to see an institution, 
which supposedly determines so
cietys standards, fall so obviously 
under the spell of a questionable
Lack Ideal
If our society lacks anything, it 
lacks a commitment to an ideal 
greater than a gross materialism. 
Carnegie Tech is a mirror of our 
society, lacking a commitment to 
an educational responsibility that 
insists upon creating a vibrant 
community and giving it the free 
air in which to breathe. It is only 
committed to the status quo.
Carnegie Tech, in its public pro
nouncements, entertains the desire
st
that it wishes to become a great 
Election j school. In its frightened and diIn this Fall of 1960 there is an private policy it undermines this desire. How is it 
possible to obtain fine teachers by 
stifling their minds with official 
restrictions? It makes no sense to
event that stirs the thoughts and 
emotions of many people. It is the 
presidential election. Important
foreign and domestic policies of
our government now fall under ; ^xPect obtain excellent students
the distorting glare of partisan i rui 1'ua trade school and limpolitics and the nation once again areas that the students
Sons and Lovers at 
Guild is the most outstanding pro!Ction, with fine acting especial - 
by Trevor Howard. This D. H.
has a chance to change its direc
tionwith possible effects that 
could change the face of the world. 
It is a time for the best and the 
most interested minds in the 
country to try to separate the 
wheat from the chaff, to try to 
present not only private opinions 
but to also point out to people who 
will listen the implications of 
rence study of a young mansj the election. It is a time for inlration, should provide pro- telligence nor avarice. Here is a
tive entertainment for any-; situation that requires the disci
plines of an academic mind not 
only because it would be useful,
| but because it is imperative. Car! negie Tech has refused to meet 
this challenge as it has failed to 
meet every challenge that smacks 
| of controversy. A plea has gone
 out from the administration for all
| faculty members to avoid making
i any statements concerning any
i topic that might bear some sigi nificance on the coming election,
>ur age. The Shadyside Theis now playing Private 
rty, and the Squirrel Hill 
owing the hilarious British 
, School for Scandals. One 
le finest film groups in the 
uauon, our own Film Arts Society, 
opens next Thursday with The 
Ladykillers. Now in its ninth 
season, the product offered by this 
years Film Arts seems to be its 
best ever.
On Saturday, October 1, the 
Music Guild is bringing the regiand if such statements must be 
made it must be made clear that
mind can explore. A student goes 
to school partly to find entrance 
into a life to which he can devote 
all his energieshe wants to 
escape the lack of purpose of his 
fellows; he wants to make his 
commitment. Carnegie Tech offers 
him little official encouragement, 
leaving its few dedicated teachers' 
to do this by wha tamounts to 
underground methods. The school 
that Carnegie Techs administra
tion wants can best be gotten by 
having a national champion foot
ball team.
No Conviction
It is tragic tb see universities 
become business organizations. It 
a graduate is the product of a 
university, class rooms and books 
the machines, teachers, the work
ers, and students, the raw ma
terial, it might be best to explore 
other opportunities for education. 
It has always been my opinion 
that education opens, up the mind 
rather than filling it. The conmental band of the Coldstream the speaker is not officially repre- ! forming and jelly-soft convictions 
whole semester before they can begin rushing and pledging. Guards and the pipes, drums, and senting Carnegie Institute of Tech- that make up the official voice of
1 dancers of the Queen's own ! nology. If this is not enough, it j Carnegie Tech could not open up a
It is nowas also suggested that faculty 
members avoid any organization 
that might be considered poli
tically orientated.
new world for an infant, 
wonder that chairs remain empty. 
Sincerely,
A Disheartened Student.
However, the difference between sorority deferred rush and VOL
fraternity deferred rush is that the freshmen girl has ample Lebanon Stadium. The presenta- ; 
oppoi IXTrtity to tnlVi io oniric and sptisfv herself of [tion was hailed in New York as a
questions concerning sororities, because she not only is in , marchingdisplay?  " ^ j
personal contact with the sorority girls but also has freedom However, most of the concert 
to talk to them. The freshman boy comes to campus, perhaps ancjart series that are usually
with a preconceived idea about fraternities, and by this new ; available in Pittsburgh will not be imui ti l", opening until the middle of Oc- system, is completely cut off from personal contact with jtber. The Pittsburgh Symphony 
ternity men. The freshmen men cannot satisfy themselves , concerts. Hewlitt Gallery. Buhl
as to a fraternitv man's activities or feelings about fraterni- : Planetarium, and Carnegie Mu- .  J * seum are all quiet now. But watchties, not only because lhe\ do not live w  the bulletin boards around school
but also because they cannot talk to them. because tickets for the Nixon
. i show- and the Symphony will be In previous rush years, each individual fraternity tried on sa|e soon
to sell their group to the rushee. With this system, the fra- j - - (NOTE: In order to properly orient the freshmen to the
ternities in general must try to sell the whole fraternity ; | camPus ani* **s inhabitants, and also to welcome the natives
svstem to freshmen without being given ample opportunity j 'C ' *  * -   1 --i-* .n-s---
to give sales talks. The deferred rush system does not seem Union
to give the freshmen enough chance to learn about the fra- , OlctllO
ternity system from the men who, being in the fraternities, , ciT students are painfully
CROSSROADS
BY THEROADRUNNERS
can give the most information, pro and con, about it. If one aware of the tact that the new , , j . . . .v  jfloicinn ..r Student Union was not finishedis to make a rational decision, in this case the decision of j n tme fw t[)e beginning ot this
hether to join a fraternity or not, shouldn t there be oppor- jschool year, as originally planned.
nitv to learn both sides of the question,-to weigh each Jurisdictional disputes a m o n sj
inst the other and then decide? And one cannot learn varolus unions delayed progress me umei, -im men ^ {during the summer months.
-ijv-fherp observance . . .
There are two sides to each question . . . good and bad 
points prominent in each side. To those who stand on the 
side of deferred rush, the good points of the system, or should 
I Rav, the good intentions of the system are understandable 
^ and admirable. Yet consider the other side of the question 
' ... are the means which are being employed capable of 
meeting the intention . . . are there really benefits to the 
groups involved, freshmen and fraternities?
JEN.
j Operations are now in full 
1 swing, however, and according to 
H. R. Bintzer, Carnegie's vice 
I president for development, 1 f 
there are no more jurisdictional 
[ disputes . . . the eating facilities ; 
j in Skibo should be ready some- ; 
! where in late October.
I Dedication ceremonies are ten
tatively set for November 22, al
though it is hoped that students 
, may make partial use of thcr facil| ities before that date.
back, we, the Roadrunners, do hereby proclaim this our first 
column which unfortunately you, the readers, will be sub
jected to each and every week.)
Overlooking Tech
Activities Offices  non-existant 
Drama!one who believes in one 
Mens Dormsgotcha!
Morewood Dining RoomBidin my time, standing in line 
New Librarywill it fly?
Scotch n Soda-cast of thousands 
Scotthe new humor magazine 
Siridyou say you like boxers?
Skibopronounced Skeeeeeeee-bo!
Tartanwhy not?
Tech Girlone who plays with toys
Tech MenMaverick with hip pocket sJide rule
Womens Dormprey to raiders
Wood lawn Pharmacyspeedy fountain service

---------------------------------------------------

RU1WUD1OSA YU,PUT2U8 m6A PgP-- 5 cNBofuo 3N3B 5 vO8- t
fV
THE
GROUP
PICTURE
THE
TECH
HONORARIES
There is an ancient tradition to the effect that honorary 
societies are dedicated to non-activity. This belief is per
haps more than somewhat factually based. Certain honoraries  here at Tech and elsewhere  seem in fact to have 
but a single purpose of existence: their once-or-twice yearly 
meeting to elect new members. Certainly this nationale of 
exi&Jence for the sake of existences propogation is questionable. ?------------------
Happily, by no means are all of j pants in campus activities.
the honorary associations of this 
campus constructed and dedicated 
in the above manner. Mortar 
Board and Omicron Delta Kap
pa, for instance, perform several 
services for the campus commu
nity; Tau Beta Pi has helped 
many an aspiring young scientist 
to _-t over the formidable hurdle 
of freshmen chemistry. But even 
better to the freshmen are two 
thei* honoraries: the Societies of 
Cwens and Scimitars. It is to 
these last two organizations and 
their members that we pay trib
ute in this first Group Picture. 
Membership 
Cwens and Scimitars are the 
sophomore womens and mens ac
tivities honoraries, respectively. 
Eacfc year as many as twentytwoTwens and eighteen Scimitars 
are selected. To be considered for 
membership, candidates must 
rank within the top third of his j 
class scholastically and be engag- j 
ed in organized extra-curricularj 
activity of some sort. Selection j 
into both groups is made after j 
careful consideration of each eli- j 
gible candidates qualifications, in; 
an attempt to recognize by their ! 
selection the outstanding partici-;
Neither of these organizations is 
a do-nothing honorary. Morewood residents are familiar with 
the perennial Cwens Products, 
and Scimitars can be found do
ing all sorts of things, from dec
orating the Gym for dances to 
selling Patterns. The function 
with which both organizations are 
most intimately connected, how
ever, is Orientation Week. For the 
Cwens and Scimitars carry a very 
considerable portion of the week?s 
work load, a load which is by no 
means light. With the bustle of 
Orientation just over, this week 
seems a fitting time to salute two
Kiltie Band 
Starts 
Active Year
Tech's Kiltie Marching Band j 
opens its season this Saturday ! 
night at the Waynesburg game in { 
Leechburg, Pa. This will be the j 
first of three away trips for the 
band on the football schedule this 
fall.
The all male band is perhaps 
the most traditional campus or
ganization, with its Scotch style 
of marching and Scotch uniforms. 
In addition to the kilt and other 
obviously Scotch garments, the 
uniform includes a unique tunic 
or jacket. This is a specially made 
combination garment suitable for
CURTAIN GOING UP!
By J. D. Scaliger
An Introduction
The purpose of this column should be obvious to anybody 
whether theyve read The Tartan before or not. If youve 
read the paper previously, you know this is a drama column, 
and if you havent, you should be able to figure it out from 
the title.
Im using this first of my columns to introduce myself, 
marching or formal wear. The j and explain a few things. One of these things is my purpose.
uniform in its formal style is al- j j spent a good deal of time this past summer trying to figure so used by the concert band later j U , ... ,in the year ;out exactv wnat the purpose ot a drama critic is, and
Dr. George Reynolds, the direc- frankly, Ive given up trying to generalize on that one. Ill 
tor, and the band officers are just stick to what my purpose as an individual critic is. 
looking forward to an excellent j j fee] ^ 2, gort Qf an ob_#----_---------------
and  commentator, sus- tion of craven cowardice levelledmarching season, with the band 
under the leadership of Charlie 
Roebuck, the new drum major. 
One reason for optimism is the 
fine freshman group that joined 
the band last week. Another rea
son is that the first halftime show 
promises to be a crowd pleaser
server
pended in some sort of limbo. The , at them for hiding behind assumopportunity to use this column to ; ed names. I, myself, do this for 
express myself, and certain spe- two reasons. Primarily, concealing
cial training Ive had place memy real name prevents well or
s7 7 7 777 7 7 7 vi
W RCTCoverGa W
K ISK COMING !
ill-wishers from contacting me outside the sphere of the average ! personally any old time they
this Saturday. It includes a spe- j member of the audience, and yet j catch me in the halls, or tying up
cial lighting arrangement for the i admit Im not up to personally my limited phone. If I keep my
night game. j creating the many facets of the real name hidden, you, readers,
The band will bring its tradi- I dramatic works, plays and films, are forced to communicate with
_______________ ___________________tion of fine performance home which I will be gleefully picking me through this piper, and thus,
organizations certainly worthy of! to campus for the first time at .; apart on the pages of The Tartan, are made to conform to the rules
praise. Homecoming on October 22. | I suppose the best way to ex- polite correspondence and
------------------------- _ ! press the function of U drama freshmen English.
! critic as it appears to me, is to j Secondly, operating under an 
| compare it to that of a guide in alias is gleeful, cloak-and-dagger 
an art museum. A rather out | fun, which appeals to the counter - 
I spoken guide, admittedly, who spy in my soul.
, not only instructs,-but expresses But for Petes sake, if you dis| his opinions of the works he lec- j agree with me violently about 
tures on. The difference is that anything I might say in this colinstead of pictures, statues, and umn or want to poke me on the 
such, I will be pointing out to head in print, do write me
you the details, positive and neg- through the Tartan. The Editor 
ative, of films, piays and such, ! wants to know what youre thinkAnd you wont have r spend ing and?so do I. -
hours tramping throug h drafty I In closingt S want to ^ that 
museums at my heels. I will be, j wi nevef intemionally make 
'lecturing to you from the pages attempt to stir Up controversy
of this newspaper. You may enjoy {or gjO own sake x win call them 
this column sitting down. as t gee them
I should say a word about my 
standards. I make it a cardinal
CAMPUS
PERSONALITY
Fresliman Camp 
A dministrator
If anything I said seems incoherent its because Im so 
i disconnected right now Ive never been go busy at the 
V4: beginning of the year. Those were the words of Jackie 
Thurston after the interview that led to this article.
* Though not really disconnected; ?--- --------*-------
I also promise to reveal my real 
name and the derivation of my
vl Jackie has been busy with sev- weej{ With Jackie as chairman, j "^of^ rt is9ood because I i a^a? *n my column this
"~!thls yeais staff made several; h d 0 nke,. or bad be. | S')rin ___________. ..Recommendations
Recommendations From My
this
changes in the setup of the tra- ; cause S don,t x haye seen many
ditional get-together for new Tech plays and films which S knew
students. Faculty members took were j^. but liked anvway. On LonS Experience On Campus:
part in the panel discussion of j Gther hand, Ive also seen j Film Arts Society: None who is
campus life and activities, and a things which I knew very well interested in the film as art or enpuppet show was added to the j were good, but still disliked. I tertainment should pass up this 
vening social program. J sha]i try very hard to separate my ; chance. There are films in this
A senior P&D, Jackie will this j 0wn opinions for more absolute j years schedule of which only one
ear teach Saturday classes in the j eritica standards in this column, or two prints exist, and which you
I will also strive to avoid crit- ! ma-V never get another chante tG 
icizing a movie or play on thejsee> The absolute cream of world 
basis of its cortent. Good treat- cinema. Thursday afternoon 
ment c^n make a dull or other- (4:30) and evening (7:30 and 
wise objectionable subject a work 9:30), Room 100. Porter Hall, 
of art, which one should be able Drama Department Productions:
---- u 1---ME555 students and faculty of one
i finest drama schools in the
s esent as good productions
r * see anywhere, and some
if plays from all levels, 
d ages of the drama. And 
e. Watch the bulletin
^ecial art program for high 
school students. Jackie herself at
tended these classes while a stu
dent at North Allegheny High 
hool.
High School
se years were busy ones for 
for they found her on the 
^he school newspaper and 
N co-editor and literary
|s all for this week. Next 
ecu, we start a year of reviewV3ie. i guess the most common ing. Hoping to instruct you a lit 
:ompkuat about past Tartan , tie and entertain you a lot. 
irama critics ha.j been an accusa- i J. D. ScaligerTHE CURRENTS 
HELPING US 
SWING INIF THAT : 
*o.im6.
NB R1WN
HOLPS WEtL. 
JUST CUEARTHE f2APlOSl
youSURE 
THINK. FOR. 
VURSEUF'
5?
When their rafrs/inoonng ^e 
narts two "muskie fishermen 
desperately gHt th. iujrerrt to 
reach the shore of the "ver . __
25 ib. spss Cpbe* sFp sme* 
ssspiP wmii beB 25 prkeB sr 
pkii, bks wmsF sFp bmB rP sF 
"sptmeg* Ie sFp pri*, s wmii 
FriB CkyF Crtp.
THE RIGHT TASTE BECAUSE
Viceroys aot it...

---------------------------------------------------

vdggdL s 5 cNBofuo 3N3B 5 RU1WUD1OS0 YU,PUT2U8 96A MesKNOW YOUR
CAMPUS
Historical Review Of 
Physical Tech Campus
By Barry Ilannegan and 
James Van Trump
In the opinion of the authors of 
this historical review of the Car
negie Tech campus, the work of 
architect Henry Hornbostel is here 
of the first order, even though 
virtually ignored today and quite 
unfashionable in current archi
tectural taste.
Strict modernists may regard 
these buildings, with their multi
tudinous references to the past 
and possibly too abundant variety j 
of levels and adornments as sim- j 
ply wearisome bores.. There is 
nothing more unfashionable than | 
yesterdays architecture unless it 
is yesterday's costume, and it is 
probable that Hornmostel's school 
has reached the nadir of its repu
tation. Nonetheless, Carnegie Tech 
has functioned well as an academy 
of the rats and sciences, and, in f 
its context, is an original and 
highly interesting achievement. 
And now, as the buildings of the 
new campus are under construc
tion, is a good time to take a close 
look at the old campus.
Competition
Ilornbostels first link with Pitts
burgh, which was to become the 
site of three decades of his greatest i 
activity, was formed when the | 
firm of Palmer and Hornbostel en
tered the competition to select an 
architect for the proposed Car
negie School of Applied Industries. 
The Trustees in 1903 had appoint
ed a committee, and the competi
tion was open to all architects con
sidered competent by the com
mittee. Five outstanding firms re
ceived special invitations to par
ticipate with the promise of a 
*1,000 honorarium to each. In ad
dition, the five competitors sub
mitting the best designs were also 
to receice $1,000 awards. So Pal
mer & Hornbostel appear in the 
Carnegie records for the first time 
on October 31. 1904, when they 
are included among the recipients 
of $1,000 design prizes. The choice 
of the firm as architects and the 
beginning of actual construction 
followed soon after: and the first 
building (a portion of the Indus
tries Building now known as Por
ter Hall) was ready for limited use 
by the autumn of 1905.
Winning Design
The winning design for the cam
pus was not greatly unlike the 
plan that has been followed. A 
large mall of about the same size 
and location as the present one 
dominated the sceme. It was 
flanked on its longer sides by the 
.familiar arrangement of an 
filade of short wings stagger' 
either side of a long com 
corridor. The upper end ( 
mall was closed by a monu{ 
turreted building analogous 
present Fine Arts Building, 
the west end was rather ine 
tually terminated by an isol:
cruciform structure with a small 
power plant and smokestack be
hind it at the crest of the hollow. 
The terrace formed at the upper 
end of the enclosed green ex
tended northward into what is ! 
now the cut and ended in a 
large Louvre-like pavilion that led 
into a small quadrangle. A series 1 
of smaller winged buildings I 
formed a large court which, placed j 
at a rather awkward and indeci- j 
sive angle to the major axes of I 
the design, covered the area of the j 
present tennis courts and Mar- j 
garet Morrison building.
Stylistic
The stylistic quality of the en
tire group was a rather curious 
but not uncommon blending of 
Florentine renaissance forms and 
the rigid precepts of French sev- j 
enteenth century planning. Im
portant elements, particularly fa
cades terminating major vistas, 
were heavily embellished with a 
species of restless, finicking, neoBaroque ornament that imparted a 
film of exposition Churrigueresque 
to the otherwise rather said forms. 
The design differs in no significant 
way from countless turn-of-thecentury projects for large, provin
cial complexes where a bland gen
tility (utility cum ait) was the 
desired end.
In the changes and modifications 
of the plan that went on continu
ally during the construction of the 
campus in the years before 1918, 
the ensemble acquired several new 
features and, more important, new 
qualities that had been previously 
lacking  strong simplicity, 
breadth, and a true monumentality. The wings of the ranges 
flanking the mall were increased 
in size as they were reduced in 
number. The Fine Arts Building 
assumed its present form, and 
Margaret Morrison, at right an
gles to the other buildings, re
placed the untidy court of the 
firjt design. A perspective render
ing by Hornbostel of the entire 
revised grouping shows the cam
pus at it was ideally envisioned 
about 1906. An impressive cause
way carried an extension of Morewood Avenue into the school 
grounds and formed' one end -of a 
stadium that lay between it and 
the western pilastered facade of 
Margaret Morrison.
- Mall
The lower end of the mall was 
closed by the arcaded basement 
stories of Machinery Hall, which,
however, still lacked its temple 
and towerthe present campus 
coup de theatre. And for the ele
ment of drama relished by the 
more adventurous eclectics, there 
was to have been an eight-story 
office and exhibition building, the 
Carnegie Union, where the west
ern end of Skibo lately sprawled. 
On none of the axes of the plan, 
a pendant to nothing, this ill-fated 
tower was to have insured that a 
view from any part of the campus 
would compose around its eccen
tric but dominating accent. In the 
midst of order and regularity, it 
is not a concession to, but rather 
a sensitive use of the principles of 
that visual pleasure we call the 
picturesque.
Structure
But it was in those first struc
tures of 1904-1906 (the buildings 
of the Industries School, now 
known as Porter Hall, and the 
western portion of the Adminis
tration Building) that the archi
tectural vocabulary of Carnegie 
Tech was made evident. Four
square quattrocento units capped 
with low tile roofs, white brick 
and abundant glass, ivory and 
polychrome tera cotta ornament, 
and the frequent change of level, 
all bound together by a Baroque 
ordering of space and form, were 
from the outset the hallmarks of 
the Tech plant.
With these materials at hand, 
the architect could and did vary 
their combination and proportion 
to achieve many effects of shape, 
color and texture. The full scope 
of Hornbostels intention, how
ever, could hardly have been 
sensed in the first finished wings. 
In them, as in all their reptitions 
on both flanks of the mall, the 
rather limited palette of brick and 
glass applied over simple forms 
produces a muted prose quite un
like the histrionics and rich pe
riods of other portions of the cam
pus. There is, admittedly, a fair 
quantity of terra cotta strewn over 
both the Industries and Science 
Buildings but the light tone of 
much of it merges easily with the 
brick while the colored, rather 
free ornament is placed directly 
under the heavy eaves, all out of 
the range of the casual glance, 
optical illusion.
05U 8BRbU 8YENSU appeared NM 
E5U y8YMUeNU VSW,MWOK fUU,BUY 
kCCg
n7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 w
r- REVELATION 
IS
 COMING! ^
s7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 ^
Student
1-Hr
ITS RIGHT ON TOP 
THE NEW ESTERBROOK "101
Hurry! Horry! Step right up and see the marvel of the ages!
... the new Esterbrook 101. A pNDDUYUME type of cartridg 
pen! It carries.2 cartridges in the barrelone is a spare... 
so theres no need to run out of ink.
The new Esterbrook 101 performs more tricks than 
a trained seal. Changes pen points as quickly as you can 
change your mind. Gives you a choice of 32 pen points.
Smartly styled, smooth-writing, the Esterbrook 101 is 
creating a 3-ring-circus of excitement .. . youll see why at 
your Esterbrook dealers.
Do it up bigtop everything with the pen that 58O every
thing... the Esterbrook 101 Renew Point Fountain pea.
5 colors, available in squeeze-fill, too! $1.95.
3NHFMVKrmV .Y, Ce.
TH 8trbrofc tot**
?1.950*K*r t*trbrot lightly h!ghr
PAINT  TOYS  HARDWARE
OAKLAND HARDWARE AND 
TOY COMPANY
3606 FORBESMA. 1-09*3
  - f * ^AUJNLHIfr
(Same Day Servitre)
COURTESY - QUALITY - SERVICE
CAMPUS CLEANERS
Across From the New Bonk

---------------------------------------------------

RU1WUD1OS0 YU,PUT2U8 96A Mesa 5 cNBofuo 3N3B 5 vOrU i
O!
CARNEGIE^ il
/ 1YF
p Evening Student Council met on Sunday, September 18. 
to formulate work assignments of members at registration 
of evening students on September 20 and 21, and to plan 
activities for the year. -
The schedule of meetings and 
activities for Council will be as 
follows:
October 2  Regular Meeting  
Study Room 2nd Floor Adm. Hall 
2 P.M.
October 29Monte CarloBlack 
yGS and Thistle Hall.
November 5Family Meeting 
Black Cat Lounge or Skibo.
November 26  Buffet Dinner 
DanceMona Lisa Lounge.
December 4Regular Meeting 
Skibo.
December 19  Christmas As
semblyPorter Hall.
January 8Regular Meeting 
Skibo.
February 5Regular Meeting
Meeting Details
Details of time and place of all 
meetings and social will be pub
lished regularly in the PLAID as 
the above schedule is subject to 
change due to the delay in com
pletion of the Student Activities 
Building. /
Cafeteria facilities are not yet 
available. Therefore evening stu
dents are requested to plan to 
obtain meals off campus.
The Handbook furnished eve
ning students was obtained at 
$178 saving due to deletion of ob
solete material. Next year it will 
be further revised in accordance 
with changes presently being ef
fected.
All officers and others having 
specific assignments on Ev 
Student Council were reques 
prepare joh evaluations of 
assignments for the benei 
those receiving similar as 
ments in the future.
Appointments 
Appointments made by 
President, Andy Oravetz, to. 
Regular Meeting 1960-61 semesters are as folk 
Social Chairman  Dennu
Stefano.
Assistant Social Chairman  
Shirley Zarenko.
Banquet ChairmanFred Ack
erman.
PLAID Editor  Mary Alice 
Peterson.
PLAID Co-EditorsVictor Sabol, Jancy Spannuth.
Distribution of Paper  Russell 
Orme, Robert Makar.
Advertising and Pubilicty Man
ager-Milan Getting.
Semi FormalFebruary 11 
DanceSkibo.
March 5  Regular Meeting  
Skibo.
April "9  Regular Meeting  
Skibo.
April 29Evening Student Ban
quetUnknown.
May 7  Regular Meeting  
Skibo.
June 4 
F"->ibo.
Tech Quartet Wins 
Jazz Honors
The Charles Bell Contempor
ary Jazz Quartet, representing 
Carnegie Tech, won first prize 
Saturday night in the Intercol
legiate Jazz Festival.
The festival, in Washington, 
D.C. was sponsored by George
town University. The group in
cludes Charles Bell, piano; Bill 
Smith, guitar; Frank Traficante, 
bass; and Alan Blorman, drums.
The Bell *group won a weeks 
engagement at Birdland, N.Y. a 
Columbia Record's contract and a 
guaranteed appearance at the 
Newport Jazz Festival. All the 
----- ..-oc written bv Mr.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
cpho1dPp8 00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 wOW BpPp,pKIpD
cpho1dPp8 00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000d000000000000000000000000000 ydII vUW.U
yKDdWUDD ?OWOrU8 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000?d!U yOIDOT
1jU8PdDdWr ?OWOrU8  00000000000000000000 000000000000000000?dIUD :pIOW1U8
BU*D o1dPU8 00000000000000000000000000 00000000000000000000000000000 000000000vdI wOTUD
DDdDPOWP BU*L o1dPp8 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000P(OSU vUO8DpW
Y,p8PD o1dPp8 00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000yp2 ?dIIU8
cp,S o1dPp8 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000YOIIS fOWpWr
YPOgg o1dPp8 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 ?O80j WW ?UIPpW
vpPpr8O,S o1dPp8 0000000000000000 000000000000000000000000000000000000IOW kOWUrD2U8r
Herman Zapf 
Takes Position 
On Faculty/
Herman Zapf, one of the world's 
most prominent calligraphers, 
typographic designers and book 
designers, has been named an A. 
W. Mellon Distinguished Visiting 
Professor in Carnegie Techs Col
lege of Fine Arts.
Mr. Zapf will serve both the 
Department of Painting, Design 
and Sculpture and the Department 
of Graphic Arts at Carnegie. He 
will fill one of .the distinguished 
chairs established in the College 
of Fine Arts by a five million 
dollar grant from the A. W. Mel*bn Educational and Charitable 
rust.
A native of Germany, he had no 
>rmal art training and started 
pon his career in this field xn 
335. By 1940, when he was just 
2 years old, his first type design, 
he test size of ;Gilgengart, a 
Jxerman text letter, had been cut. 
Since that time, Mr. Zapf has
Ut*
created approximately 50 type de
signs that have been issued by 
the foundry of D. Stempel, A. G. 
Frankfurt am Main, and the Lino
type organization of West Ger
many.
At Carnegie Tech, Mr. Zanf will 
I conduct a six week seminar on 
j book design for a limited number 
iof qualified applicants. From OcI tober 4 to October 30. the first deI finitive exhibition of this distinj guished designers work ever to 
i be shown in this country will L?
| exhibited at the Carnegie Insti
tute. Following the showing at 
I the Institute, the exhibit will 
move to New York. Chicago. Cin
cinnati, Boston. San Francisco and 
j Toronto, Canada, 
j Mr. Zapf's earliest employment 
was as a photo retoucher in a 
I printing firm in Germany. In the 
I spring of 1939, however, he mov| ed to Frankfurt am Main where 
he worked with Haus zum Fursteneck of the printing firm of Paul 
Koch- and by late 1939 he had 
established himself as a free-lance 
book designer and typographer.
After World War II, Zapf taught 
lettering in Nuernberg and Offen
bach until 1950. His first United 
States exhibition was held in 1951 
at Cooper Union in New York and 
in 1954 came what will undoubt
edly be one of the most carefully 
produced books of the twentieth 
century, his r8MW8SU 0lAReY8A5No 
W,g He has written many articles 
on printing, typography ,type de
signing and type classification and 
a bock on the influence of Wil
liam Morris in Germany. He has 
now established a small private 
press in his home.
Mr. Zapfs typographic rather 
than illustrative approach to the 
fields of bookmaking and jacket 
designing has been widely ac
claimed. His achievements in 
xRMENMWUp RM A8eU 8]
Its what's up front that counts
Up front is [ FILTER-BLEND~] and only Winston has itl 
Rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially 
processed for full flavor in filter smoking.
THE
COUNCIL
OF
FRATERNITY
PRESIDENTS
INVITES
ALL
FRESHMEN
MEN
TO
MEET
THE
GREEKS
FRATERNITY TOURS 
1 to 6 P.M. 
SUNDAY, OCT. 2nd 
ASSEMBLE 
FINE ARTS LAWN
y0 ^ NUSWpI1L 3p2O..p cpUD ,pWSA RdWDPpWhYOIUT0 B0 c0

---------------------------------------------------

vOrU 6 5 cNBofuo 3N3B 5 RU1WUD1OS0 YU,PUT2U8 C60 Mes6
SAE Retains All-Sports Trophy 
For Second Consecutive Year
Construction Stop 
Dims Tech Hopes 
For Stadium
Unforseen delays in construction 
of Techs new stadium have 
forced changing the site of the 
first two home football games this 
year.
The Waynesburg game will be 
played at Leechburg in the Stain
less Steel Bowl Game on Saturday 
night, October 1, I960, at 8:00 
p.m. Students will be admitted 
free by showing their I. D. cards.
The Oberlin game will be played 
at Oberlin, Ohio, on October 8. 
Student I. D. cards will not be 
honored.
The opening game on the new 
Tech Field will now be our Home
coming Game with Rochester on 
October 22. Admission for all 
home games will be free upon 
presentation of your student I, D.
Varsity Gridders Look 
To Rugged 1960 Season
Filters for 
flavor
-finest flavor by far!
Has tan rosi non
PATTERNS, the literary arts 
magazine of Carnegie Tech, is now 
conducting interviews for new 
staff members.
The positions available are: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Literary Editor, Associate Literary 
and Poetry Editor, Art Editor, As
sociate Art Editor, Business Man
ager, Sales Manager, Advertising 
Manager, Production Manager and 
Secretary. Students may also ap
ply for the staffs of any of the 
above positions.
Interested students should write 
a letter of application which con
tains positions preferred and any 
previous experience pertaining to 
the production of a publication.
Committee Members
A committee consisting of the 
president of Mortar Board, the 
Mortar Board advisor to Patterns, 
the editor-in-chief, and th re
tiring editor of the position ap
plied for will review each letter. 
Applications should be addressed 
to Leila Moore 3D11, Morewood. 
The deadline for applications is
I FILTER
HERES HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES ITtTareyton has the taste
1.It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL... definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth...
2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance 
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareytons flavor-balance gives 
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.
NEW DUAL FILTER
)8ww7 NO RWY ,NppSE M8,U <2> 8g Eg ^C.YRpWE
