A % aa m S Aa 4^ L% ^ Iife CarnGy 16 CcCrl -illHill TARTAN llll
Volume 65 - Number 7 Wednesday, October 27, 1965
Eventsinciude Presidents Inauguration Encompasses
Crowning,
Concert,Dance Academic And Ceremonial Programs
Formal Homecoming activities 
began on Friday evening with the 
crowning of 1965 - 66 Homecom
ing Queen Nancy Mosca.
Then the Brothers Four sang 
and joked their way through an 
evening's performance. Their 
songs ranged from classic folk 
music to rock and roll and in
cluded such titles as: Some
where," Time to Remember," 
and Greenfields." The group sang 
in Italian, South African and Ja
panese and led up to their inter
mission with a song entitled 
Twenty - Five Minutes To Go." 
Later in the evening they sang a 
new version of Franky and John
ny" and John Henry Versus the 
Computer."
Said some Carnegie Tech stu
dents with regard to the Broth
ers Four and their performance: 
It was a fast - moving per
formance that kept you on the edge 
of your seat ... I never laughed 
so hard before ... It was great 
the way they responded to the au
dience."
The Fenways, go-go girls and 
Three Blind Mice entertained at 
the Saturday evening dance. There, 
Nancy Mosca presented the dis
play awards and the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents awarded 
its scholarship trophies. Theta 
Xi had the best over all ave
rage with 2.61 and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon received the scholarship 
improvement award.
Fran Ross Crowns 
Queen Nancy Mosca
Fairless Lecturer Discusses 
Current Economic Trends
The managers of our national 
prosperity will have the best 
chance of extending the current 
expansion if they will, on one 
hand, deal more realistically with 
the structural causes of unem
ployment and, on the other, take 
steps to slow down the rate of 
growth of bank credit and curb 
for a while the increase in fede
ral spending on civilian pro
grams," according to Dr. Arthur 
F. Burns, president of the Nation
al Bureau of Economic Research, 
Inc.
Dr. Burns, delivering the first 
of three 1965 Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lectures at Car
negie Tech yesterday afternoon, 
discussed Our Longest Expan
sion," before a crowd of indus
trial executives and Carnegie Tech 
faculty members and students.
Tracing the present period of 
prosperity to February, 1961, Dr.
Burns called the upswing a natu
ral one following the decline of 
1960 - 61, which he said, came 
as close to being a pure inventory 
recession as any on record." How
ever, citing President Kennedy's 
1960 campaign promise to get 
America moving again, Dr. Burns 
said, This promise or prophecy 
has been amply fulfilled in the eco
nomic sphere."
The Kennedy Administration, he 
said, assumed a very active role 
during the process of recovery 
and turned what might have been 
an ordinary expansion into a re
markable upsurge. The current 
expansion has already lasted 56 
months, and still appears to have 
momentum," he said. Reason
ably accurate records for the past 
hundred and some years," Dr. 
Burns continued, disclose no 
other peacetime expansion that 
continued on page 6
3 College Prexys Participate 
In Program Honoring Stever
An address entitled Faculty, Students, and Community in Tomorrow's 
University," delivered last Thursday morning by Dr. Vincent M. Barnett, 
Jr., president of Colgate University, gave the keynote for the academic 
events on the occasion of the Inauguration of Horton Guyford Stever as 
fifth president of Carnegie Tech. _______________________________
Dr. Barnett began his address 
by stating that the accelerated 
rate of change in our society as 
a whole will almost certainly be 
reflected in more rapidly changing 
relationships within the university 
and between the university and the 
outside world." He cited the three 
major areas of adaptation, sug
gested by Clark Kerr in his recent 
book, The Uses of the Uni
versity;" growth; shifting acade
mic emphasis; and involvement in 
the life of society.
Dr. Barnett chose . . . to look 
at their impact on prospective 
changes in the role of faculty, 
students, and community." With 
regard to faculty, he discussed 
two questions: first, that concern
ing the rate of adaption of univer
sity faculties to meet changing 
needs; and second, Can faculties 
preserve the heart of the liberal 
education process at the under
graduate level in view of the pres
sures on the individual faculty 
member deriving from his own 
professional career demands."
In considering students, Dr.
Barnett addressed himself to the 
analysis of the wave of student 
unrest which had erupted so dra
matically at Berkeley and in less 
explosive fashion on a surprizingly large number of other college 
campuses." He went on to cite and 
explore many factors contributing 
to that unrest.
He asserted, furthermore, that 
the educational system must not 
set a high level of expectation, 
but it must develop skills, attitud
es, habits of mind, and the kinds 
of knowledge and understanding 
that will be the instruments of 
continuous change and growth on 
the part of the young person. He 
posed the question as to how much 
of modern higher education is di
rected to such goals.
The third major portion of his 
address was devoted to the rela
tionship between the university and 
the community. He claimed, If 
one were to try to make even an 
incomplete catalogue of the ways 
in which the community' expects 
its universities to behave, he would 
get a long list." He then proceed
ed to name several impressive 
examples of the demands made by 
the community on the university.
In view of this, he maintains, 
. . . one of the greatest pro
blems of the modern university is 
the allocations of limited resour
ces to the various kinds of de
mands pressed upon it by the com
munity."
Following Dr. Barnett's ad
dress were two panel discussions 
which explored topics pertinent 
to the subject matter of the ad
dress.
The Thursday morning panel 
discussion explored Tomorrow's 
University Within the Communi
ty." John R. Coleman, moderator, 
and dean of the Division of Huma^ 
nities and Social Sciences at Car
negie Tech; G. Leland Bach, Mau
rice Falk, Professor of Economics 
and Social Sciences; EverettCase, 
president of the Alfred P. Sloan 
Foundation; Frederick Dorian, 
professor of music; Seymour W. 
Herwald, group vice president, 
Westinghouse Electric Corpora
tion; James S. Langer, associate 
professor of physics; and Adolph 
W. Schmidt, retired president of 
the A. W. Mellon Educational and 
Charitable Trust focused much of 
their attention on the'cloister' idea 
of education and the extent to which 
a university should become invol
ved with community projects.
In answer to a statement by 
Schmidt, the basic purpose of a 
university is the education of young 
men and women . . . the universi
ty should remain a cloister" Case 
stated that cloister life is gone 
and there is nothing we can do about 
it."
Then the panel went on to dis
cuss educational priorities' and
Newly invested President Stever (right) accepts Carnegie Tech 
Charter from James M. Bovard, Chairman of the Board of Trustees (left). 
Vincent M. Barnett, Jr., Colgates president (center) looks on. %
the university as a subsersive' 
institution with parallel purposes 
of community involvement and in
novation and undergraduate edu
cation.
It was concluded that each indi
vidual university must decide upon 
its own priorities' (areas of in
volvement and its allottment of 
time, faculty and funds to each).
The afternoon panel consisted 
of Harold J. Leavitt, moderator, 
and professor of industrial admi
nistration and psychology, GSIA; 
Earle R. Gister, associate profes
sor and head of the drama depart 
ment; Martha Hodgson, senior hu
manities; Robert J. Kibbee, assis
tant to the president for planning; 
William W. Mullins, professor and 
head of the metallurgical engineer
ing department; Erwin R. Stein
berg, dean of Margaret Morrison 
College and the Division of Hu
manities and Social Sciences; and 
John Jerry Uhi, graduate student, 
mathematics.
It discussed, more or less spon
taneously, Tomorrows Univer
sity as a Community," focusing 
on faculty-student relationships,
Berkeley at Carnegie Tech, and 
judging good teachers. Panel mod
erator, Harold J. Leavitt, brought 
up the point that a difficulty in 
university education is that stu
dents often come expecting to be 
taught while faculty members ex
pect them to learn." Uhl referred 
to a mysterious outside pressure 
suggesting that perhaps students 
come to college forced to learn.
Dr. Lee A. DuBridge, presi
dent of California Institute of 
Technology spoke at the Thurs
day luncheon on The Role of 
the Institute of Technology* ". 
Dr. DuBridge defined the insti
tute of technology as  . . . 
an institution of higher education 
devoting itself principally (but not 
always  solely) to professional 
education at both undergraduate 
and graduate levels in selected 
fields of pure and applied science."
After naming a number of char
acteristics common to all such 
schools, Dr. DuBridge postulated 
this principle, which, he claimed, 
underlies them all; This (the 
postulate) is our devotion to the 
continued on page 7
Four Finalists From Homecoming Queen Competition

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 27, 1965
Activist, Alinsky, To Speak 
For Intern Program Group
by Sue Attinson
Saul Alinsky, noted political activist, will speak in the Wherrett Room,
Sldbo, at 3:30 p.m. on November 1. All Carnegie Tech students are
invited to attend.
According to June Harpers Magazine, inciting municipal jitters, in a 
sense, in Alinskys trade.
Trained in sociology at the University of Chicago, more than two Theater Schedules 
decades ago he tested his theories
of democracy ("a democracy lack- I $1 Student Shows 
ing in popular participation dies of 
paralysis) in the stockyards of 
that city. He published a book.1 
Reveille for Radicals which blue-1 
printed his design for militant'
peoples organizations," and es-, 
tablished, with the aid of philan
thropists, the Industrial Areas 
Foundation which has been called 
a kind of training school for agi-i 
tators.
During the coming year Alin
sky and his IAF staff expect to be 
working in a number of cities 
including Rochester, Buffalo and 
Kansas City.
Alinsky is speaking at Carnegie 
Tech as part of the Internship 
Program of the Office of Econo
mic Opportunity. Twenty-eight 
graduates of Negro universities 
are participating in the program 
at Carnegie Tech. During this 
academic year they will complete 
courses in urban problems, report 
writing, literature and history and 
at the same time, work with such 
community organizations as Action 
Housing. The college has been 
granted $230,000 to cover the costs 
of their education.
Carnegie Techs contract with 
the government requires that the 
school bring in speakers during 
the year. Already, representatives 
from the community organizations 
have spoken. In the future the 
school plans to feature other na
tionally noted figures.
Special performances of Those 
Magnificent Men in Their Flying 
Machines have been scheduled 
for University of Pittsburgh and 
Carnegie Tech students at the 
Kings Court Theater, 3807 Forbes 
Avenue in Oakland beginning next 
Saturday.
Three additional student shows 
will follow on Saturday morning 
November 6, 13 and 20. Each per
formance will begin at 10 a.m. and 
conclude at 12;30 p.m.
Seats will not be reserved but 
tickets may be purchased in ad
vance at the Kings Court box of
fice, daily  noon to 9 p.m. and 
Sunday  1 p.m. to 9 p.m., or by 
mail.
Admission will cost $1.
Those Magnificant Men In 
Their Flying Machines, now in 
its third month at the Kings Court, 
stars Stuart Whitman.
GMO'S and PETE'S PIZZERIA
with fka flying Pizza
SPECIAL
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG C82-8C91
^ ^ -y m s-1, f ^ i
I *  4 
TRIED THE SNACK BARS CARRY OUT SERVICE YET?
Weinstein's Kennilworth Restaurant 
GOESAu GO-GO
FEATURINGthe Challengers
Six nights a week
Ki_ w-Reservations call No Co.er 44,^443
5700 Centre Ave.
Mens Dorms Elect 
1965-66 Officers
Mens dormitory residents have 
elected the following officers: 
Scobell Hall - Dave Nam an, pre
sident; Gilbert Remley, vice pre
sident; Paul Adler, secretary. 
Welch Hall - Dan Hoffman, presi
dent; Richard Greb, vice presi
dent; Mike Hoffman, secretary. 
McGill Hall - BUI Feldkamp, 
president; George Uram, vice pre
sident. Boss Hall - Dan Cog an, 
president; Richard Klotz, vice pre
sident; Emanuel Fulkommer, sec
retary.
In A-Wing Hamerschlag Don 
Horr was elected president; Greg 
Vermeychuk, vice president; Art 
Carlson, secretary. B-Wing Ham
erschlag - Dave Vokin, president; 
Bob Kazenski, vice president. ALevel Donner Hall - Andy Hickes, 
president; Joeng Surh, vice pre
sident. 1st Floor Donner Hall - 
Bill Gourley, president; E. J. Novoty, vice president; Alan Wichner, secretary.
Second Floor Donner Hall has 
George Schnakenberg as presi
dent, Terry Lunghoffer, vice pre
sident; Al Sneden, secretary. 3rd 
Floor Donner Hall - Les Kania, 
president; Jeff Knight, vice pre
sident; Lou Morrell, secretary. 
Henderson Hall - Al Hoffman, 
president; Mike Perel, vice pre
sident.
Dave Ritchie is president of 
Mens Dorm Council and Bob 
Moorhead is vice president. Den
nis Rosenfeld is treasurer, 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
X *SComputerNewsS
X
X WRCT broadcasts
* Comp Center information  
x x
x every hour on the hour, x x x
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
R0GALSKY STUDIO
CUSTOM FRAMING 
FINE PORTRAIT 
PHOTOGRAPHY
Black & White or Living Color
5813 Forbes Ave.
Squirrel Hill 
Phone 421-8044
To reader and admirers of "The Fountalnhea "Atlas Shrugged" and "For the New Intetlectu
Enrollment is now open for the
NATHANIEL BRANDENlectures on basic principles of
OBJECTIVISMthe philosophy ofAYNRANDand its application to psychology
For a descriptive brochure, ptease write or phone the local business representative of NATHANIEL BRANDEN INSTITUTE
2873 Beechwood Blvd. 
Pittsburgh Pa. 15217 
Phone 521-6428
Student Wins 
Flying Lesson
Dale Peschel, sophomore che
mistry, received the winning tic
ket in the Carnegie Tech Flying 
Clubs Homecoming contest. He 
will receive a free flying lesson.
At the Saturday game the club 
distributed numbered tickets to 
spectators. The winning number 
was written on 3 by 5 cards which 
were placed in red cardboard 
rockets. TTiese rockets were drop
ped by club members from a plane 
during the game halftime. They did 
not, however, land on the field.
The winning number was com
puted in the air from the planes 
takeoff time, altimeter setting, 
wind direction and velocity.
FranRor sCawr QnuaeNor
The Executive Council of Stu
dent Congress has announced that 
the position of adjucant is avail
able on Student Court. The job in
volves the procuring of facts per
taining to cases tried in court;
Those interested in the posi
tion should mail their applications 
(including name, major and qua
lifications) to Tom GHassberg, 
Chairman of Executive Council, 
Skibo room 103, before Novem
ber 4.
cCyR Me slai
Today at 4 p.m. 
Breed Hall, MMCC
THE HOUSK OFCHIANC
Pittsburgh's Newest 
Chinese Resfawant
FvRetNl dooRP SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS(ge and t
h )ntptnaNl Non TNytlf Pinnin FvrelClrNn
Midnight Snack: Wonton Soup and Egg Roll
sNll mJ.BgJ.F
Located in the Heart of Oakland ai3802 Forbes Avtnu
ENTERTAINMENT
UNIQUE
For the best in entertainment for dances, 
parties , weddings-call the man with out 
of state connections. FAIR PRICES and 
quick service.
Ron Edmonds Agency Director 
361-8708 24 hr onswering service 
6101 Penn. Ave.
Rm. 502, Liberty Bldg.
YOUTH SHOWSaturday IO A. M.
I Hi
7*,. 20th C.ntury-Fo
,*  & presents
tntm
WAtaes
-flpWI \h&*lonfai vWW
STUDENT 
*1.00HMD Ml. OMLANO I682-2334

---------------------------------------------------

Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTYSOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
This Week In PittsburghI______ by Ken Lut " j
Exhibitions
Recent sculptures by Henry Bursztynowicz, Pittsburgh Han for Art.
1251 N. Negley Ave.
?Seashore paintings, including works by Renoir, Monet, and Homer. 
Carnegie Institute of Art. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily except Sunday 2 to 
5 p.m.?Masterpieces of Glass. Buhl Planetarium, North Side. Sky Show, 
Stonehenge to Mars. Open afternoons and evenings Monday through 
Saturday, all day Sunday. For information call 321-4300.
Exhibition of Lithographs and Gravures by Hans Hartung (Paris). Pitt 
Book Center. Open dally.
Drama ond Music
?American Conservatory Theatre. The Devil's Disciple, October
27, 31. King Lear, October 30, November 2. Tartuffe, October
28, 29. Death of a Salesman, October 27, 28, 31, November 2. 
Six Characters in Search of An Author, October 29. Servant of 
Two Masters, October 30 (matinee and evenings). Student tickets 
available for all performances. Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. at 
Hamlet Street.
?Pittsburgh Symphony. Works by Schoenberg, Chopin, and Rachmaninoff. 
Jerome Lowenthal, pianist. Helen Vanni, mezzo. Friday at 8:40 p.m. 
Sunday at 3:10 p.m. Syria Mosque.
?Pittsburgh Opera. Don Carlos. With Neil Rank and Ezio Flagello.
Thursday and Saturday 8:15 p.m. Syria Mosque.
?Poznan Choir of Poland. Tonight at 8:30 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall. 
?Wilkinsburg Symphony Benefit concert. Trafford City High School. 
October 29 at 8:30 p.m.
Sports
?Football. Pittsburgh Steelers vs. Dallas Cowboys. Pitt Stadium. Oc
tober 31 at 1:30 p.m.
?Hockey. Pittsburgh Hornets vs. Los Angeles. Tonight at 8 p.m. Civic 
Arena.
*Admission Charged
Anyone can
mnr
With Eatons Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper, you 
can erase that goof without a trace.
Not a telltale smudge remains. A special surface per
mits quick and easy erasing with an ordinary pencil 
eraser. For perfect papers every time, get Corrasable. 
In light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In 
handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. 
Qr FrNrtCoRwf ,RvNwryRorVS
Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
EATON PAPE* CORPORATION. PITTSFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS
Wednesday, October 27, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
TDP Takes First
In Display Contest
by Tom Moore
Tau Delta Phis King of the Road display wdn first prize in the 
1965 Homecoming display competition, second place went to Theta 
Xis Happiness is a Tartan Victory and Third place to Kappa 
Sigmas Most Unusual Game on Record.*
Tau Delta Phi
SnS Wins Award
in National Contest
Scotch'nSoda was informed last 
week that its 1965 production, 
Whatserface, had won first hon
orable mention (second place) in 
the BMI Varsity Show Contest.
The SnS production, written 
by Iris Ratner and Lawrence Ste
phens, was one of more than 100 
college theater group shows to 
compete in the contest. First prize 
was taken by the Princeton Tri
angle Club of Princeton Universi
ty.
On November 6, SnS will hold 
a meeting for all students interes
ted in participating in any phase 
of this years production. Those 
who wish to audition will be 
told what material they should pre
pare and slides of Whatserface 
will be shown to freshmen and 
new members. In addition, a brief 
preview of the 1966 production will 
be presented.
The meeting will be held at 2 
p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Theta Xi Winning
The FM gridder had to be 
towed after he met the King of the 
Road,* described the action in 
front of TDP as two old cars 
decorated like football players 
clashed in the middle of the grid
iron. The F&M car showed the bad 
effects of a continual beating from 
the Tartan plaid bumper of the 
Carnegie Tech car.
Scoring of this years displays 
was based on; effectiveness im
mediate eye appeal and applica
bility to Homecoming and football 
atmosphere; appropriateness  
applicability of the display to the 
Disco-Tech* theme and the ap
propriateness of the display to its 
individual theme; and design ~ 
workmanship, mechanics, light
ing, special effects, art work and 
use of color. All displays were re
quired to have a fire extinquisher 
in view and feature no manually 
operated parts.
TXs Happiness is a Tartan 
Victory* featured Peanut char
acters in a football and Au-go-go 
atmosphere. The display centered 
on rotating panels showing the
Peanuts clan at a dance and on the 
football field.
KSs Most Unusual Game on 
Record* displayed a Tartan foot
ball player carrying the ball as he 
traveled on a circular football 
field. The field rotated on a phono
graph. A scoreboard on the record 
player ran up a Carnegie Tech 
victory as a Kiltie Bagpiper play
ed Here They Come Again.*
Training of Beta Sigma RhoGo* was the theme at BSR. There, 
the team was featured in a dance 
warmup. Carnegie Tech player #24 
danced passed twoF&Mtacklers in 
Sigma Nus Dodo A-Go-Go.* SN 
suggested that Carnegie Tech 
needs players with less upstairs" 
who know more about dancing than 
e to the x.
A Tartan player danced onto the 
field in phi Kappa Theta's Our 
Team is Back and Theres Gonna 
Be Trouble* and a combo of football-players musicians, Carnegie 
Techs Four Horsemen, cele
brated a victory at Delta Tau 
Deltas Merry A-Go-Go-Round.*
The Little Old Lady from Pas
adena travelled by Honda to Car
negie Tech Homecoming across 
Pi Kappa Alphas map of the United 
States and Carnegie Tech play
ers demonstrated a new offensive 
at Alpha Tau Omegbs Tartan 
Stomp.*
Pogo characters thwarted Evil 
Franklin and Dirty Marshall in 
their attempts to best Carnegie 
Tech at Delta Upsilon and Car
negie Tech rolled to victory at 
Beta Theta Pi. The BTO display, 
representing a giant juke box, in
cluded such melodies as Tech 
Rolls," Hang on Tartans," and 
F&M Blues.*
But the most foreshadowing 
theme was presented by the mens 
dormitories. Their display was 
called, The Eve of Destruction." 
It represented a winning F&M 
finally defeated by the Spirit of 
Carnegie Tech.
A button-down in a basket weave. (Something old, something new.)
This Arrow shirt gives you best of 
both worlds. (1) A long-pointed 
collar role in the most authentic 
tradition. (2) A husky-looking 
basket weave that updates 
ordinary oxford. For other 
interesting features, check the 
tapered body; back pleat and 
loop; back collar button. Lots of 
unusual stripes to choose from. 
$5.00. You expected to pay more? 
Bold New Breed from-ARROW---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 27, 1965
Editorial
Uninviting Hcoming
For many, Homecoming weekend brought a mixture of unique ex
periences. Those few who ventured to the Academic Events on the Oc
casion of the Inauguration of Horton Guyford Stever* found them very 
rewarding, and the pageantry and symbolism of the inaugural event 
itself very exciting. For those folk music fans who helped pack the gym 
for the Brothers Four, the two hour concert was certainly enjoyable. 
But for others, it was just another concert by just another singing 
group, hardly distinguishable from the Mitchell Trio of Carnival *65, 
the Lettermen of Homecoming '64, or the Four Freshmen of Carnival 
64.
Saturday's football game was unique also, for even as Tech con
tinued its losing ways, the partisan crowd was actually cheering, a 
radical change from a usual apathetic attitude. But the final unique 
experience, the Disco-Tech dance Saturday night, proved disgusting 
to many.
On almost any weekend in the school year, starting with a TGIF 
on Friday, to fraternity parties Friday and Saturday nights, one can 
easily find loud, noisy rock 'n' roll-style music to which to dance. 
Saturday's dance was no exception, and the presence of the *Go-Go' 
girls served only to add humor to the situation. In fact the dance 
proved only that girls look ridiculous trying to do the jerk in formal 
evening gowns.
Despite the bemoanings of the homecoming committee that the four 
day weekend was taking its toll in ticket sales, perhaps the combination 
of a four day sabbatical with an uninviting program of events was more 
disastrous. In fact, the inauguration and the events preceeding it proved 
to be the most enjoyable for many.
It is time to reevaluate the student opinion that seemingly guided 
both the previous selections of folk music groups on three of the last 
five big weekends, and the choice of having only one type of music, 
which appealed to only a few students. Also, it is time to review the 
sacred-cow philosophy regarding big weekends on Tech's campus. It 
is time for a change.
Even though the quality of the Friday night entertainment in the 
past years has been good, they have been, for the most part, either 
folk or popular music groups. Perhaps the consensus would be that 
another type of musical entertainment is more popular, if indeed music 
is the most popular form of entertainment. This may be illustrated by 
a recent example; the hiring of a purportedly popular group, Bo Diddley, 
during Carnival '65, succeeded only in increasing the cost of the ticket, 
and not the entertainment value. Thus it is time to evaluate the pop
ularity of types of entertainment, and some of the representative enter
tainers. A student opinion poll might be a help, but not a poll of a 
selected few', who are supposed to be the representative of campus 
opinion, rather a general campus consensus.
One of the reasons for having a rock n roll group and a Go-Go' 
theme was to attract people to the dance, rather than staying at a 
fraternity house or private party. It seems clear, at this point, that 
the rules governing * all-school' events might be reviewed as well. 
Theoretically when an event is classified as an all-school' event by 
Student Congress, no other official function may be held on campus 
at a coincident time. If such rules were enforced, the Saturday night 
dance during a big weekend can then survive' after the presentation 
of awards.
The opportunity to polish or practice one's ballroom-style dancing 
is nearly non-existant, and with the use of rock 'n' roll as the sole 
type of music for Homecoming, there will be only two more such op
portunities this year, with the exception of the Greek formals. In the 
past, two types of music were offered, a slow' band, and a rock 'n' 
roll group. This seems to be the optimum of situations, since both styles 
of dancing were then available.
As a footnote, the consideration of other weekends as *all-school' 
weekends, such as the Military Ball, or the institution of a Winter 
Weekend, might reduce the reliance given to just two weekends per 
year for establishing an all-campus event, which can interest and attract 
a majority of the students.
Evan M. Melhado
Editor-in-Chief
Richard G. Sextro Sue Attinson
Business Manager Desk Editor
News Editor...............................................................Candy Etlcin
Sports Editor.........................................................Michael Vargo
Layout Editor...................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor...................................................Fred Maize
Assistant News Editor................................................. Liz Seley
Assistant Desk Editor .......................................Carol S. Guber
National Advertising Manager...........................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager....................Edward A. Ketterer
Secretarial Editor ........ ............ Judy Birken
Circulation Manager...............................................Marty Kline
Layout Staff: Christopher Grondahl, Laora Seidler, Marcy Stern 
Business Staff: Barb Brown, Barrie Dinkins, Carol Teaman 
Circulation Staff: Debbie Andruss, Camille Bozgon, Nancy Barron.Valerie Wotton 
Printer's Liason: J. E. Miller1
Headlines: Esther Bushman, Gretchen Effler
Typists: Diane Cushing, Linda Green, Leslie France, Suzanne Kuni, 
Cheryl McConn, Kate Stader,. Ruth Thompson, Sue Welle, 
Lois Zodikoff
Annuel Subscription Rate: $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by Notional Advertising inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except 
during holidays and examination periods by the students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
TroikaBy
John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Postmortem
The 89th Congress, called the 
most productive in history, has 
adjourned. In 10 months, Congress 
passed 86 major bills, among them 
the Civil Rights Bill (of Mrs. 
Murphy's boarding house fame) and 
the voting rights bill which so neat
ly discriminated against certain 
states. The nation's immigration 
laws were brought up to date, Fe
deral Aid to education was pass
ed, and Lady Birds wish was gran
ted  the billboards will go.
From the administrative view
point the only major failures came 
at the end of this session when the 
legislators, overcome by itchy 
feet, agreed to let right - to - 
work die quietly rather than be 
talked to death by Ev Dirksen and 
Co. The nomination of Francis 
X. Morrissey, a man of dubious 
qualifications at best, for a Fe
deral Judgeship was returned to 
committee, a graceful surrender. 
Home Rule for D.C. was watered 
down. A new minimum wage law 
and extension of social security 
never got out of the hopper.
Even more significant than the 
productivity of this first session 
of the 89th Congress is the pro
found change in the relationship 
between that August body and the 
White House. We all learned long 
ago of the checks and balances 
in the three branches of Federal 
Government. In those days Con
gress was where bills originated, 
were deliberated on and passed or 
rejected. The president as Chief 
Executive implemented those bills 
which became law. But no more.
The last session of Congress
reminds us of the Senate in the 
early days of the Roman Empire. 
Lyndon Johnson, like Augustus 
Caesar is becoming the Prin
ceps Senatus" or first man of 
the Senate. He proposes a bill and 
the legislature rubber-stamps it< 
The Senate and the trappings of 
the Republic were indeed retained 
by the Caesars but only as an 
exclusive club and an ornament 
to the imperial power.
We hardly expect Mr. John
son to don the purple in the near 
future but every time the Presi
dent announces lam sending a bill 
to Congress . . .  the old and 
delicate balance is further dama
ged.
This alarming imbalance, we 
think, is due to a power vacuum 
in Congress. The old conserva
tive Southern Democrats, though 
apparently permanent fixtures in 
Congress, have been thoroughly 
discredited by the recent civil 
rights movements. The Repub
licans with whom they often allied 
are now outnumbered two to one in 
both houses. The younger Demo
crats, too, owe much to Mr. John
son, a man known more for his 
arm twisting than the touch 
technique in political football.
We may hope for a restoration 
of the balance of parties in the 
next election. If though, the tenure 
of these younger Democrats is due 
to increase, with it may come a 
degree of independence from the 
White House. In the meantime 
we await the resumption of Con
gress in January to see if the 
rapture of the Presidential hon
eymoon will fade.
From The Middle Of The Bus'
if tePNRl NlNkC%%
Freedom 
At Last
Last summer while hitchhiking through the South, I sometimes felt 
I was in a strange, foreign place, and now, on reflecting, I know that I 
was. All one must do is step out of line... leave one's family and friends, 
their influence and environment, and one soon sees that America can be 
quite a foreign place. The South as I saw it was not a democratic society 
in which the laws of the Constitution are upheldquite the contrary. I 
noticed laws in direct violation of our basic rights; I saw police beating 
people illegally, jailing people illegally, and I reached the conclusion 
that justice was a commodity which had to be bought. It was distributive 
justice; the more you had the more you get. I then realized that when I 
left the Mississippi jail I'd only be entering another one. People are 
walled in by society which can be harsher than any jail. I only had to 
think of how much of my daily activity would continue if society did 
not on the one hand frown upon, or on the other condone it.
John Bell Williams said that summer in Congress that there was no 
police brutality, and that he was an honorable man. During my ten days 
in jail, I saw people beaten; I saw a man whose arm was broken as the 
police dragged him away. I saw a fourteen year old boy forced to re
cover his tray from scorching hot water into which he had accidentally 
dropped it. He was severely burned. I saw inhumanity in the form of 
blood, billy clubs and caged trucks.
The Alabama legislature in an exclusive and lengthy article said: 
SNCC is following the Communist line and is Communist dominated 
.... SNCC is an agent of the Communist conspiracy and measures up to 
every definition of the Communist Party front. The student Non-Violent 
Coordinating Committee is found by this commission to constitute one 
of the most serious attempts by the Communists in America, with 
support of Red China, Cuba and Communist nations in Africa to effect 
a violent overthrow of existing governments, state and federal, in the 
U. S.  I had not yet met a Communist. I had met a boy from Stanford, 
one from Harvard and Princeton. I met a congressman's son and a 
newsman's son. I met a Canadian and an Australian. None were Com
munists, just conscientious citizens concerned about their govern
ment. There were the honorable men.
But then the day came when I was set free after spending nine days 
in a filthy jail for illegal charges as verified by the Federal Court. I 
was kicked and dragged around with a billy club around my throat be
cause I tried to exercise my rights under the First Amendment. The 
prospect of freedom, at least from jail, was a wonderful one indeed.
Readers Write
cNwNVVyRor H% btekRrV 
,RotRV INVte EtDPrV
Editor, the Tartan:
Last weekend the good citizens 
of this city showed their intensive 
patriotism and firm belief in the 
U. S. Constitution by harrassing 
(with obscene insults as well as 
physical violence) the peace pic
kets who were protesting this 
country's Vietnam policy.
Although I do not believe in the 
peace-marchers aims, it seems 
absurd to me that Pittsburgh's 
residents, who claim the march
ers are trying to undermine the 
American way of life, should, 
themselves, act in such a way as to 
deny any group the basic rights 
of free speech and assembly.
Ron Stephens 
Physics, 67
QnytotVrwNrCw FRRV 
AKPR sNwoRDtR FvtwtrY
Editor, the Tartan:
Those despairing souls who have 
been searching for the Carne
gie Spirit could have found 
it in abundance in Tech's foot
ball squad at Grove City.
Would that their number were 
legion at Carnegie Tech. Then 
both campus spirit and football 
victories would soar.
Sincerely,
H. Russell Bintzer 
Vice President for Development
Panel To Discuss 
Joining A Sorority
The Freshman Women's Cabinet 
of the Carnegie Tech YWCA will 
feature a panel discussion entit
led Should I Join a Sorority? 
at its second meeting this after
noon at 5:30 p.m. in Morewood 
Gardens Blueroom.
All freshmen women are invited 
to attend the meeting.
Participating in the panel will 
be Barbara Broawn, GinnyCannon, 
Barrie Dinkins, Pam Mayer 
and Sue Robinson. At 4:30, prior 
to the open meeting, the Cabinet 
will elect this year's officers.
NrP B FetRoeR KarCwV
Tutors for freshmen in che
mistry, physics, and calculus will 
be available every Sunday night 
(except November 28) through De
cember 5, from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m, 
in Porter Hall 126 C.
TTiere will be no charge.
The program is sponsored by the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents,
MawCvRNo FayyRw 
MyvlCfyRor
Students Interested in working 
in Europe next summer may re
ceive further Information from 
Dept. II, ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Llberte, Luxembourg City, Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg. For $2 
the ASIS will send a 36 - page 
booklet containing information 
about available jobs, wages, and 
working conditions; and job and 
travel applications.
hoNaDawNrtCo
Qon
cCyReCytoD
bPCrCDwNvPf
By:
Dave Leavttt 
Fred Maize 
John Mera 
Gordon Morris 
Mike Perel 
Carey Winters

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 27, i965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
KROr H%% bwRVtnRor cS Ua%%Cwn FrRpRwYV hoNaDwNrtCo QnnwRVV
Stever Starts With The Student As An Individual
New President Asserts That 
A Great University Is Balanced
All of us associated with Carnegie Institute of Technology are espe
cially appreciative of the honor which is done to our Institution today 
by others. Trustees, faculty, administration, students, staff, alumni 
and friends of Carnegie Tech are here in a dual role  both to honor 
the Institution and to be honored for the part each has played in the past 
and is continuing to play in a developing future.
After spending most of my pro
fessional life in education, and in 
this time of increasing awareness 
of the need for vitality in our high
er education system, I am parti
cularly honored to be selected as 
President of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. And I am further hon
ored by your appearance here at 
this ceremony of my Inauguration.
I would single out for particular 
welcome to Carnegie Tech and 
Pittsburgh, those presidents of 
other academic institutions who 
seem to take such special delight 
when another falls into the pit with 
them. Though you presidents from 
out of town are welcomed today, 
my fellow university and college 
presidents here in this city have 
sharply instructed me never again 
to invite so many outside college 
presidents to town on a day when 
the banks are open.
No Centenary Celebration
Carnegie Tech has had a proud 
past, though a relatively short 
one. It has not yet been able to 
celebrate a centenary occasion 
since it was founded in 1900. I 
find that for fund-raising purpos
es the next conveniently titled 
year is some time off, unless some 
of my Latin scholar colleagues can 
come up with the proper word for 
two - thirds of a century, which 
is only about a year away,
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
was not conceived by professional 
educators. The idea came directly 
from Andrew Carnegie. Its formal 
existence began with a letter of 
remarkable clarity and vision, 
written by him in November of 1900, 
offering to build and endow a tech
nical school for the City of Pitts
burgh. I wish all of you could read 
that remarkable letter, for it shows 
you much of what was in his mind.
He mentioned reading an article 
Handication versus Headication, an essay written by his 
grandfather. He showed his admi
ration for those people who began 
their lives as laborers and went 
on to achieve great things when 
he wrote, It is really astonishing 
how many of the worlds foremost 
men have begun as manual labo
rers, The greatest of all, Shakes
peare, was a woolcarder; Burns, 
a plowman; Columbus, a sailor;
Hannibal, a blacksmith; Lincoln, 
a rail - splitter; Grant, a tanner, 
and he went on to mention George 
Westinghouse, a mechanic, and 
Professor Brashear, a mill - 
wright of Pittsburgh, He could 
have added Andrew Carnegie, bobbin-boy. And in the letter he men
tioned the deep impressions made 
on him by the technical Institutes 
in Boston, Worcester, Philadel
phia, Brooklyn, and Chicago, and 
particularly two British institutes,
Keighley Institute and Halifax In
stitute.
FRwpteR KC honaVrwtNl btrrViawDP
Carnegie conceived a technical 
school as opposed to a liberal arts 
college of which there were many 
In the country, and he conceived 
of a school that would give, by 
the production of trained young 
men and women, primary service 
to Pittsburgh, hard-working, in
dustrial, free-enterprise-based 
Pittsburgh. He was just complet
ing a half century as one of the 
leaders who made the names of 
Pittsburgh and America synony
mous with industrial production
He knew the needs of industry.
Service to the community was 
a prime theme in his founding 
this school. During the discus
sions ^yesterday, many of you not
ed that this theme of service to 
the community is still ever pre
sent in the minds of the staff of 
this institution, though the concept 
of the community has broadened 
far beyond the boundaries of 
Pittsburgh to include state, na
tion, indeed society as a whole; 
and it now includes not only the 
production of educated profession
al men and women, but also re
search and scholarly work and di
rect service of faculty in impor
tant affairs other than education
al.
Andrew Carnegie once wrote, 
some time after the founding, to 
William McConway, the Chair
man of the Trustees Committee, 
No school can be a creation but 
an evolution. Each of my four 
predecessors here at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology has put his 
personal stamp on that evolution, 
though it is clear to all of you 
that some of the original threads 
have indeed remained part of the 
present fabric.
The Evolution
The first President, Dr. Hamerschlag, built the nucleus of the 
campus and set up the technical 
schools. The second, Dr. Baker, 
built up the academic activities 
and standards to change its char
acter from an almost purely tech
nical school to a more broadly 
based university centered on tech
nical professions. The third, Dr. 
Doherty, established modern en
gineering and science education 
and put a stamp on Carnegie Tech 
of liberal general education, to 
make it a leader among technical 
institutes in devoting as much as 
twenty-five percent of the curri
culum time to education in the 
humanities and social sciences. 
My immediate predecessor, Dr. 
Warner, built the facilities and fa
culty strength needed for grad
uate education so important in the 
modern professions of engineer
ing, science, and industrial 
management; and he reawakened 
the long dormant drive to build 
and improve the campus. None of 
these trends has reached its final 
state; the evolution is continuing.
All of this discussion of the 
foundations of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology may appear to some 
of you as the struggle of a new 
president to find something to 
characterize his administration. 
To others it may appear to be an 
explanation for the make-up on this 
campus of an Institute of Techno
logy, with not only the normal 
components of such an Institute 
(namely, engineering, science, in
dustrial management and the hu
manities and social sciences), but 
also a college for womens edu
cation and a college of fine arts, 
a curious combination.
I have dwelt on this history 
for quite different reasons. Ac
tually, this institutions heritage 
is one ingredient in the many 
needed to continue the develop
ment and strengthening of its 
character; it can be proud of both 
its original practical heritage 
from which comes its strong pro
fessional orientation, and its ready 
acceptance of some of the best 
from another aspect of education, 
the liberal arts.
And finally, there is a grouping 
which has come to the foreground 
in recent years,  aggressive, 
non - conforming, Interested In 
events in the larger world; each 
of its members is rather hard on 
everyone around himstudents,
faculty, and administration, but 
nevertheless each is trying to find 
out what the truly important is
sues of life are. This group is 
usually an interested and aroused 
and often involved group.
This group knows that, in spite 
of the surface stability of our go
vernment, our country is in the 
midst of a social and economic re
volution of shattering proportions; 
they want those of us in education 
to help them study the issues and 
shape their standards, lest some 
less responsible leaders capture 
their imagination and drive.
Widespread Agreement
There are many comments on 
the wide diversity of American 
higher education. We have des
criptions for educational institube, to know our quality and envi
ronment for learning, not for pur
poses of comparisons with other 
types or specific institutions, but 
so we can strengthen its charac
ter, make it grow better in todays 
and tomorrows world.
Start With The Student 
As in all things educational,
I like to start with the student 
as an individual, and the student 
body as an important segment 
of our academic community. 
Our students at the graduate le
vel are attracted here almost 
solely to further their pro
fessional drives; at the under
graduate level for the mixture of 
professional and liberal arts 
education. The undergraduates 
are not all well rounded as inIt is my belief that this cam
pus will be healthiest with an 
admixture of all of these group
ings, not expecting that any 
given student can or will par
ticipate in all, but giving rich
ness in individual selection for 
each student to find his own way. 
And the presence of each group
ing has a remarkable broaden
ing effect on those students who 
tend to concentrate in one. Car
negie Techs problem is to re
main first rate in its profes
sional educational environment 
without suppressing any of these 
worth - while students rallying 
points.
Broadening Effect 
A great university climate to 
which we aspire comes not from
Four College presidents converse together lightheartedly while awaiting inauguration ceremony in Carneg  
ie Hall. They are, left to right: Vincent M. Barnett Jr. , Colgate University; Horton Guyford Stever, 
Julius A. Stratton, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and Lee A. Dubridge, California Institute of 
T echnology.
tions which immediately conjure 
images of quite different kinds 
of education  liberal arts, state 
university, liberal professional, 
private university, church school, 
urban university, and so on.
Actually, from a curriculum 
content point of view, there is 
widespread agreement on what goes 
into higher education. Most sche
mes Involve professional work, 
needed by the student to earn his 
way through life, and to serve so
ciety with his special talents. 
Most have a fair sprinkling of 
general education  about what 
man has been, what he is, and what 
he can be, the physical world about 
him and his place in it, the evol
ving of his ideas, morally, philo
sophically, his instutitions, his 
great works of art, science, go
vernment, how he can solve his 
problems, and what problems are 
most important to solve. And al
most all pay attention to the de
velopment of the individual as an 
individual, socially, culturally, 
physically, and as a responsible 
contributing citizen of a com
munity. Carnegie Techs program, 
as an example, has each of these 
elements.
Institutions differ a great deal, 
however, in two ways: first In the 
quality and standards of the fa
culty teaching the curriculum, and 
the Interest and capability of the 
students studying the curriculum; 
and second in the environment pro
vided for learning, for research, 
for scholarly activity, and Fra ser
vice to the community. And it is 
this environmental factor and the 
faculty and student quality factor 
which most clearly characterize 
the institution, which lmpllcity es
tablish the observable goals of the 
Institution, which serve to at
tract its student body to study and 
faculty members to teach and pur
sue their professional work, as 
well as to attract the needed mone
tary and spiritual help from many 
individuals and organizations.
It behooves us to examine our 
institution, what it Is, what it can
dividuals, but as a group they 
are; there is a variety in race, 
creed, color, in cultural, so
cial and economic background, 
in geographical distribution. 
Though they are a reasonably 
selected group, there is a con
siderable range of academic 
ability and creative talent as 
well as elan and professional 
drive.
When they become members of 
our undergraduate student body, 
various of them show, fortunately 
I believe, interest in all of the stu
dent groupings as identified re
cently by Louis Mayhew, and some 
truly mix these groupings. One 
grouping is collegiate, emphasiz
ing fraternities,sororities, social 
functions, athletic life, campus 
parties, campus organizations,
campus high jinks. This group may resist some attempts of the faculty 
to lead them too deeply into aca
demic affairs, though at the same 
time each remains a reasonably 
acceptable student; moreover this 
group is one of the strongest uni
versity - and community-mind
ed groups of all those supporting 
the university while in school and 
throughout later life.
A second grouping of students 
is vocational or professional, par
ticularly flourishing on urban 
campuses and professional cam
puses, Interested primarily in the 
job or profession each Is pre
paring for, and with relatively poor 
campus loyalties; still each mem
ber of this group has drive to 
master his professional field, even 
at the expense of broadening ex
periences.
The next grouping is academic, 
concentrating on academic is
sues, closely involved with facul
ty activity, and espousing many 
faculty ideas, associated not 
with the full spectrum of univer
sity campus life, but purely with 
its academic program; from this 
group come the best prospects for 
graduate students in professional 
programs and for future teachers.
an all pervasive galaxy of schools, 
one for every activity known to 
man, nor in fact within each school 
from a covering of every subject 
possible. It comes from the depth 
of kinds of work done at the in
stitution: graduate study in the pro
fessions, in which the standard is 
simply top rank; research asso
ciated with that graduate work, 
and with the development of the 
professional careers of the fa
culty of a quality recognized by 
fellow professionals around the 
world; service to society in many 
ways both institutional and by in
dividual student development.
Its faculty must be dedicated to 
the educational process itself, with 
an eagerness to innovate, experi
ment, test and judge the various 
parts of the process. Its admini
stration develops its campus, ed
ucational buildings, research fa
cilities, and living and playing 
areas to enhance all these objec
tives. And all its members under
stand and enhance the differences 
in the professions it furthers.
And may I make a parenthe
tical remark about the particular 
combinatioln of professional fields 
on this campus  technology 
and the fine arts. Carnegie Tech 
has always been closely coupled 
to industrial, building America. 
And today, with the ever grow
ing recognition of the need for 
more beauty in the growth of our 
technologically spawned cities, 
and tor the spiritual uplift of the 
performing and creative arts In 
our dally lives, so permeated with 
technology, there can be no bet
ter combination of professional 
fields than the fine arts and tech
nology.
Deeper Reason
But there is a deeper, far more 
significant educational reason for 
this combination of professional 
fields to be on the campus. Man
kind has found several quite dif
ferent ways to express his noble 
thoughts, his emotions, his crea
tive Ideas and his great works.
continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 27, 1965 -------------------------------------------:--------------------------------------------------------I------------------
New President Asserts That
A Great University Is Balanced
continued from page 5that we must help our faculty in this 
The interrelationships of the phy- I area on the side of the liberal 
sical world are expressed in the j arts," the humanities and social
sciences, to develop a great depth 
not only in the education given to
laws of the scientists; auditory 
and visual form, substance and ab
straction in music, painting, de
sign, and sculpture; perfection of 
thinidng in mathematical logic; hu
man emotion in drama endeavor in 
the organizations of the social 
scientist and industrialist.
The glory of having a creative 
college of fine arts on the same 
campus as a college of engin
eering and science is not so the 
engineer and scientist can relax 
at a good show or concert or ex
hibit in the evening, though that 
is pleasant, but so that faculty 
and students are exposed to 
quite different forms of human 
thought, expression, and action. 
And there is another remark 
about why we are fortunate in our 
campus for its contribution to the 
learning environment. Located in 
an urban area, where we can take 
advantage of all the social, com
mercial and cultural activities of 
the city we, nevertheless have a 
campus which is focused, cohe
sive, and an entity unto itself, with 
living, working, and playing faci
lities close to one another. As we 
meet our future building needs, we 
must never change the cohesive, focused nature of our campus.
To Continue The Evolution 
The highest standards for re
search and scholarship in our 
professions we inherit from our 
past. Our problem is to continue 
the evolution, recognizing the im
portance of the newly emergent, 
and discontinuing the areas which 
have served their purpose. The 
past has shown we can. Carnegie 
Tech has led or been among the 
leaders in the establishment of 
fields recognized as important 
throughout the land-applied and 
industrial psychology, drama, in
dustrial management, computer 
science, metallurgy, solid state 
physics, and a number of others. 
.For this important portion of our 
evolution we depend upon our 
strong faculty, and its profession
al leadership at the departmental 
and college level. They are the 
wellheads for such change.
No president or administrator 
can have all these ideas, but for il
lustration of my point, let me men
tion my own professional field, en
gineering, where there is needed a 
further maturing to face the large 
scale technological problems of 
our time such as cleaning the air, 
land, and water; designing trans
portation systems instead of ve
hicles and ways; combining ar
chitecture, city planning and en
gineering to solve our urban build
ing problems. In my brief stay on 
this campus, I have been pleased 
to note many other currents of 
change as well.
In the field of general educa
tion, the tradition at Carnegie 
Tech has long been that of furni
shing it for those who study pri
marily in a profession, or one of 
the practical arts. Today, how
ever, this is changing. Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College is ra
pidly becoming a liberal arts col
lege for women. TTie problem is to 
provide the resources and the fa
culty needed, a group in humani
ties and social studies to handle 
the ever increasing load of those 
who take a more traditional edu
cational course. There are some 
missing areas of coverage  phi
losophy for one.
But while we have areas of 
comparatively shallow coverage 
which must be given depth, we can | 
call upon our great strengths in 
our professional schools for cer
tain of the liberal arts,  the basic 
sciences, fine arts, and some of 
the social sciences so strongly
developed in the professional j
school of business management, 
such social sciences as psycholo- j 
gy and economics. And as we 
strengthen ourselves, I believe
the majors but also in their own 
professional work which furthers 
their own professional aims.
If we can succeed over the 
years in the development of a 
first class full liberal arts ed
ucation for the women of Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie Col
lege, and those men who want 
and need a more equal mix
ture of the liberal arts and pro
fessions in the undergraduate 
years, we will again have led 
Carnegie Tech to greater edu
cational fulfillment.
Educational Innovation
It has been interesting to me to 
discover that Carnegie Tech has 
developed innovation in the field 
of education per se that has been 
both strong and creative. This 
work, led in many cases by faculty 
involved in the general education 
of the non-degree-granting divi
sion, has been widely recognized. 
Our people are deeply involved 
with the public school system of 
Pittsburgh, helping both the gifted 
students and the underprivileged; 
with the Negro colleges in the 
South, helping to up - grade the 
professors; with higher education
al institutions overseas to intro
duce professional education in the 
sciences and their application. 
Groups in history, social studies, 
English, and in engineering
throughout the university have de
veloped curricula for secondary 
schools. Our teacher education is 
rapidly becoming stronger. Car
negie Tech must focus and synthe
size these activities.
Educational innovation, whether 
it is practiced on one's own col
lege class or done to help secon
dary education or other colleges, 
has a very transient nature. The 
innovator, being an enthusiast, can 
usually make it work. Students re
spond to extra attention. But when 
the idea is passed on as a routine 
matter for later generations, it of
ten has no impact at all.
Furthermore, very little atten
tion has been paid to the evalua
tion of educational innovation. In
fact, the great research universi
ties and colleges of this country, 
sharp as they are in evaluating 
progress in other professional 
fields, have don very little to 
evaluate their own educational 
ideas. Focus and evaluation in our 
educational innovation are most 
important. And especially we must 
reserve some of our abounding 
energy for innovation in teaching 
our own classes, because every 
college and university in the coun
try is on trial on this charge of 
neglect of teaching. Moreover, the 
arena of educational innovation is 
a rich one for the interaction of 
many professions.
A Balanced University 
A great university is a balanced 
one. This institution can achieve 
its greatest potential when all of its 
professional work is first class, 
so that its graduates can walk in 
the front ranks of professionals 
throughout the world; when it 
recognizes that it is not here to 
stamp out a standardized pro
duct, but to enable each of its 
students to search for and de
termine his own path for ser
vice to society; when it can se
lect only the best of the newly 
emerging fields and not destroy 
the best of the old as it pro
gresses; when each professor and 
professional field is enhanced by 
the presence of quality work in 
other fields on the campus, and 
when students can benefit from 
quite different types of students 
working with them; when the im
pact of the leading minds on the 
campus is felt across the entire 
spectrum of education from fresh
man year to graduate degree; when 
teachers in all the professions 
and fields of learning at the in
stitution are given full opportunity 
for professional development.
Carnegie Tech has already de
veloped a strong institutional char
acter. If we build widely, it will 
become much greater. Each of the 
individual goals will be closer 
when all of the Carnegie family 
work toward the institutional goals 
as well. And finally, I hope you 
can detect my great enthusiasm 
for my part of that task. I am 
sure that each of you will share 
that job with me.
Thank you.
595
? sHGKQsK -h,MB-QdM 
:C OR DO ROY JEANS
ALL SHADES
j LEONARDS Mens Shop
; Oakland Headquarters for Ivy League Fashion
Forbes & Atwood Open Mon. Wed, & Fri., til 9
Mf
Large enough to hold your future, 
small enough to know you.
ENGINEERS: American Air Filter Company, Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest 
manufacturer of air filters, dust control, heat
ing, ventilating and air conditioning equipment. 
Yet AAF is small enough for you to know well.
AAF needs graduate engineers to fill respon
sible jobs in sales, product engineering, re
search and industrial engineering. Eventual 
location might be in any of AAFs six plant 
cities or one of the more than 150 sales offices 
throughout the U. S.
Men who join AAF will be given training 
which is designed to fulfill their early career 
needs. This may be on-the-job training or formal 
classroom experience, as the job assignment 
dictates. Interested Seniors should make an 
appointment now through the Placement Office. 
An AAF representative will visit the campus on
November 9,1965
A n equal opportunity employer
MtAir fiIterimencan
COMPANY. INC.. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY
Fairless Lecturer Discusses
continued from page 1
lasted so long."
Analyzing some of the causes 
of what he termed this remar
kable expansion, Dr. Burns cited 
deficit finance, which he said "has 
played a larger and more consis
tent role in the present expansion 
than^n any of its immediate pre
decessors.
The application of fiscal stimuli 
in a context of monetary ease, 
the essential feature of the econo
mic policy in the past few years, 
has also contributed to economic 
growth, said Dr. Burns, but he 
added, this policy did not im
mediately cause the recovery desi
red by the Administration because 
of what he termed the weak link 
in the chain of economic recove
ry - private investment in fixed 
capital."
This lack of sufficient confi
dence on the part of private in
vestment, he said, stemmed from 
the fact that an administration, 
strongly backed by the trade union 
movement, raised questions in the 
minds of businessmen already con
cerned with rising prices. These 
fears reached a climax, according 
to Dr. Burns, in April 1962, when 
President Kennedy moved stern
ly to force the major steel com
panies to rescind the price in
crease that they had just posted.
Dr. Burns pointed out that this 
fear caused a sluggish economy in
1962, but credited President Ken
nedy with forestalling an immi
nent recession, when he turned at 
once to the difficult task of re
building confidence.
Pointing out that the economy 
rebounded with vigor in 1963, 
months before the deficits planned 
through tax reduction became ef
fective, Dr. Burns said, Even if 
we consider only the period since
1963, it was not the tax reduction 
as such, but rather its balanced 
character, and still more funda
mentally the improving environ
ment for private enterprise of 
which the tax legislation was it
self a symptom, that more than 
any other single factor accounts 
for the boom .that our nation has 
been experiencing. He termed 
this fact, the most important 
lesson to be derived from the 
current expansion.
Admitting that the current ex
pansion has been exceptionally 
long, Dr. Burns pointed out that 
it has not been exceptionally rapid 
or intense, and credited this mo
deration with playing an impor
tant role in postponing or pre
venting those conditions which 
could have brought on a re
cession.
He listed recent changes such 
as the high percentage of opera
ting capacity enjoyed by indus
try, almost no skilled labor un
employment, the advance of 
consumer prices, recent acce
leration in the advance of wages, 
and higher labor cost per unit of 
output as signs of a still active 
business cycle. These develop
ments, together with the booming 
rates of investment in numerous 
industries, indications of over
building in the housing market, 
and various symptoms of deterio
ration in the quality of credit, 
are, he said, a warning that 
the business cycle is not yet dead. 
Dr. Burns warned that manag
ing the national economy in these 
circumstances is much different 
than in a period of slack or mode
ration and said that the liberal 
monetary and fiscal policy still 
practiced by the government is 
likely to intensify upward pres
sures on both wages and prices. 
If these financial conditions con
tinue, he concluded, the extra
ordinary expansion of our eco
nomy since 1961 - which has done 
so much to lift the hopes of mil
lions of our people - may come to 
an inglorious end.
rxclubwe ai
DIAMONDRINGS.
\
FLAIR$425
A graceful diamond solataire that has the essence of 
classisism. One of the most popular Orange Blossom 
designs in 18Kt. White Gold. Worlds finest diamonds 
to fit your budget.
Terms arranged
JOHN VI. ROBKKIS < SON f
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 27, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
-PNrYV ,CtoD Ho sNyvaVx
by Tina Enteil
Today
9 to 5 p.m. Drawings by Mark
Tobey, Hewlett Gallery, through 
November 5.
12:30 p.m. Mass, Skibo Room 39.
3 to 4 p.m. Hill el Meeting, Rabbi 
Rubenstein, Lounge, YMHA.
3:30 to 10:30 p.m. Volunteers need
ed for Brushton Inner City Pro
ject (anti-poverty) call BICP 
office for information: 731-2811.
4 to 4:30 p.m. Dr. Sandberg, Ski
bo, Highlander Room.
4:30 p.m. Film of Pistol Marks
manship for Rifle and Pistol 
Club members.
4:30 to 6 p.m. Dr. Sandberg, Sldbo, Faculty Lounge.
6:15 to 8:30 p.m. Speed Racing, 
Skibo, room 56.
8 to 9:30 p.m. American Insti
tute of Chemical Engineers, 
Skibo, Wherrett room.
8 p.m. Tech Dames, Skibo, room 
40.
8 to 10:30 p.m. Flying Club, Ski
bo, room 45.
GSIA Students, employment in
terviews: FMC Corps, Mellon 
National Bank and Trust Co., 
HRB Singer Inc., McDonnell Air
craft Corp. Appointments at Bu
reau of Placement, skibo.
Exhibition of work by faculty of 
CFA, Lobby and Faculty Lounge, 
Skibo, through October 30.
8:10 p.m. Hotel Paradiso," by 
Georges Feydeau, directed by 
Lewis Palter, Carnegie Theater, 
CFA, through October 30.
Thursday
11:30 a.m. The Psychology and 
Structure of Worship, Skibo 
room 55.
11:30 a.m. Mass, Skibo, room 39.
12:30 p.m. Unity prayer, Skibo, 
room 39.
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. Tech Christian 
Fellowship, Skibo, room 40.
4:30 to 6 p.m. Pipe Corps, Skibo 
200.
4:30, 7 and 9:30 p.m. Film Arts, 
America," Porter Hall 100.
6:15 to 8:30 p.m. Speed Reading, 
Skibo, room 56.
8 to 11 p.m. CIT Folk Dance Club, 
Skibo, Wherrett Room.
GSIA students employment inter
views: Control Data Corp. NASA 
Lew Research Center, North 
American Aviation, Inc., ap
pointments at Bureau of Place
ment, Skibo.
Friday
11:30 a.m. Oratory, Skibo, room 
54.
12:30 p.m. Mass, Skibo, room 3?.
3:30 p.m. Lecture by Donald Gaver, The Transient Behavior 
of Service Systems," room 225.
6 to 8:15 p.m. Speed Reading, 
Skibo, room 39.
6:30 p.m. Tech Christian Fellow
ship, Skibo, room 39.
7 p.m. Tech Record Dance, Skibo, 
Ballroom.
7:30 and 10 p.m. Ballad of A 
Soldier", Sorter Hall, 100. 
YMCA - YWCA members, $.25, 
non-members $.50.
GSIA students, employment inter
views; Merck and Co. Appoint
ments at Bureau of Placement, 
Skibo.
Saturday
9:30 a.m. to noon. Horn Club 
Meeting, Skibo, room 55.
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Folk Institute, 
Skibo, Ballroom.
6:45 to 8:30 p.m. Dancing Les
sons, Skibo, Highlander Room.
6:30 to 11 p.m. Indian Students 
Association, Skibo, rooms 40,
45, 34, and ballroom.
7 to 8 p.m. IBTC Meeting, Skibo 
parking lot.
Sunday
9 a.m. and noon Mass, Scaife, 
Auditorium.
12 to 5 p,m. Commuters Tea 
with Mrs. Thorpe, Skibo, High
lander Room.
7:30 p.m. Chess Club, Skibo, room
46.
8 to 11 p.m4 Folk Dancing, Skibo, 
Ballroom.
Camp
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos - in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
us Chest Contributes 
To Students Educations
The major portion of the money raised during this years Campus 
Chest drive at Carnegie Tech will go to three organizations: The World 
University Service, the National Scholarship Service and the Fund 
for Negro Students, and the Carnegie Tech Financial Aid Office.
These organizations were se
lected because they help students.
The World University Service 
helps students on an international 
level; the National Scholarship 
Service and Fund for Negro Stu
dents gives its aid on a national 
basis; and the Financial Aid of
fice helps locally.
The World University Service 
is an association of students and 
professors in more than 60 coun
tries which works for the ad
vancement of the university com
munity. It helps provide students 
with living quarters, eating faci
lities and health services. It also 
provides book bands and direct 
financial aid.
Participants in the program hope 
to foster cooperation and under
standing between the university 
communities of all nations."
The National Scholarship Ser
vice and Fund for Negro Students 
(NSSFNS) has a long term goal 
of quality of educational oppor
tunity for all deprived groups re
gardless of race . .. through a col
lege advisory service and a sup
plementary scholarship fund.
NSSFNS has helped almost 12,000
students throughout the country en
roll in college. It provides a coun
seling and placement service which 
works through the high school gui
dance counselors. NSSFNS also 
provides financial aid to students 
who would otherwise be unable to 
attend college.
The Carnegie Tech Financial 
Aid Office provides financial aid to 
Carnegie Tech students who re
quire it. Awards are made on the 
basis of scholarship and need.
Four other organizations will be 
listed on the contribution envelope: 
the American Field Service, the 
Ernie Davis Leukemia Fund, the 
Pittsburgh Childrens Hospital, 
and the Korean Welfare Boystown. 
If a student prefers that his dona
tion go to one of these organizzations, he will be able to indi
cate this.
Strathmeyer Announces 
Employee Group Elections
The following is a letter from 
R. D. Strathmeyer, Carnegie Tech 
vice president for business af
fairs, to operation and main
tenance of plant, food service, and 
custodial employees. It concerns 
the establishment of employee re
presentation elections on the Car
negie Tech campus:
Because of evidence showing 
strong interest and participation 
by Carnegie Institute of Techno
logy employees in the Indepen
dent Association of Carnegie Em
ployees and In response to the re
quest made by the president of 
that Association, Mr. Jack Veseley, Carnegie Institute of Techno
logy has joined in petitions to the 
Pennsylvania Labor Relations 
Board for the conduct of employee 
representation elections. These 
elections will be held on the cam
pus at times and places to be an
nounced by the Pennsylvania La
bor Relations Board. The elections 
will be conducted under the rules 
and procedures established by that
Board.
The elections will include those 
groups of employees whom the In
dependent Association of Carnegie 
Employees seeks to represent. 
These include operations and 
maintenance of plant employees 
(excluding security personnel), 
food service employees, custodial 
employees, groundsmen, and la
borers. The qualified voting list 
will be published appropriately af
ter approval by the Pennsylvania 
Labor Relations Board.
These elections will enable these 
groups of employees to determine 
for themselves whether they de
sire to organize for collective bar
gaining purposes. Custodial em
ployees, groundsmen, and labor
ers will have a choice between 
the Independent Association of 
Carnegie Employees and the Build
ing Service Employees Inter
national Union, Local 29.
I shall advise you promptly 
of further details when these are 
received from the Pennsylvania 
Labor Relations Board.
Inauguration Encompasses
continued from page 1
belief that the ability to pursue 
the truth about our physical world 
is one of man's highest and most 
constructive attainments; that 
truth in a very practical sense 
makes men free; and that the in
tellectual integrity which is es
sential to truth - seeking is an up
lifting force in civilization.0
Dr. Julius A. Stratton, presi
dent of Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, concluded the aca
demic program on Thursday with 
his dinner address, **The Humani
ties in Professional Education. 
His major theme was that **. . . 
whether we will or not, science 
cannot be isolated from the rest 
of human affairs. Nor can any
one understand the stream of art 
and literature and philosophy to
day without some perception, some 
awareness of the great currents 
of scientific thought.
He emphasized that the mastery 
sought by the professional student 
implies **a human perspective, 
and from time immemorial we 
have looked to the humanities for 
inspiration and leadership ..." 
to gain this perspective. Finally, 
Dr. Stratton emphasized that in 
the institute of technology, the 
humanities must not be set apart,
LEWISSales-Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 621-4211 
115 OAKLAND AVE
ATTENTION!........Students and Faculty
Saw!SSn Fanfare aid Rags 
San*%M
IRnwCCyV_ NrrwRVV5)_ 
dlploDwCCyV_ ,toRrrRVS _
. AT NMttr AA% amS^LSSa 
1000-9x12 Rugs $15. to S39.
Also 6x9, 9x15s, 12x1 Ss, etc. at BARGAIN PRICES
Non TawotrawR 7
$432 Walnut Street, Shodysido Phone: MA-1-1025
HvRo nNtlf .0 NSyS rC X vSyS* FNrawnNf .0 NSyS rC g vSyS 
SERVING THE COLLEGE TRADE
but must become central to our 
endeavor.
The inauguration program it
self occurred on Friday morning. 
Originally slated for the campus 
mall, the ceremonies were mov
ed indoors to the Carnegie Hall 
because of inclement weather.
The processional, led by the Kil
tie Pipe Corps, was followed by 
the presentation of the colors, 
the national anthem, and an invoca
tion by the Reverend Morris F. 
Arnold, Rector, Christ Church, 
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Welcoming addresses were gi
ven by Richard A. Elder, Chair
man, student Congress, for the 
students; Neal Woodruff, Jr., 
Chairman, General Faculty, for 
the Faculty; Henry Lehne, Presi
dent-elect, Alumni Federation, for 
the alumni; Vincent M. Barnett, 
Jr., president, Colgate University, 
for universities; and Joseph M. 
Barr, mayor, City of Pittsburgh, 
for the community.
James M. Bovard, Chairman of 
the Board of Trustees of Carne
gie Tech then invested Dr. H. 
Guyford Stever as fifth president.
As his first official duty, the new 
president conferred honorary 
Doctor of Science degrees on pre
sidents DuBridge and Stratton, and 
an honorary Doctor of Humane Let
ters degree on President Barnett.
President Stever than gave his 
Inauguration Address, the text of 
which is published on page five.
Carbide Corp.
Offers Jobs
The Union Carbide Corporation 
is conducting a summer employ
ment program open to those stu
dents who have completed at least 
two years of a four year cur
riculum leading to degrees In bio
logy, chemistry, engineering, ma
thematics, physics, or statistics. 
The program is also available 
for graduate students working tow
ard advanced degrees in the same 
areas.
Students interested in the pro
gram should submit to the company 
a regular qualification record form 
marked summer" and the fol
lowing Information before Jan
uary 1:
1. A transcript of academic 
record to date.
2. Confidential rating forms 
completed by two professors, ad
visors, or heads of departments.
Selections will be made by March 
15.
The qualification record may 
be obtained from James L. Gab
bard, Central Employment Of
fice, Technical Personnel, Union 
C arbide Corporation, Nuclear 
Division, P.O. Box M, Oak Ridge, 
Tennessee 37831.
Zoo s Work Despite the Rain
riff* Sii
PITT'Sburgh pcrfcct 
Pizza
Fran nrRo sCn aowQueo
SPECIAL GROUP RATES
DIAL 683-5222
~ OAKLAND AVENUE
IN PERSONefar, aul an cLary
Tickets - $4.50 - $3.50 - $2.50 Mosque 2 HITES SAT., 
NOV. 20 - SUN., NOV. 21 - 8:15 p.m. Tickets on sale 
in Oakland at National Record Mart. On sale Downtown 
at Horne's, Gimbels, Sam Goody Record Store.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 27, 1965
Late F&M Explosion
Ruins Tech, 27-24
by Mike Vargo
Franklin and Marshalls Diplomats struck for four quick touchdowns in the second half to turn a Tartan 
walkaway into a stunning 27-24 defeat in theCarnegie Tech Homecoming Game last Saturday at Tech Field.
Trailing 18-0 with most of the third quarter -gone, F&M scored three times in a little more than 10 
minutes to take a 20-18 lead. Then when Tech struck back to go ahead 24-20 with only 2:50 left in the game, 
F&M quarterback Seiki Murono took the Diplomats 55 yards on two pass plays for the winning TD.
Murono, the key man in the 
Diplomats' victory, was unstop
pable in the second-half scoring 
spree, offsetting a fine perfor
mance by Tech QB Tom Hubka,1 
who completed 20 of 33 passes for 
219 yards and three touchdowns.
Hectic First Quarter
The Tartans started out like 
they were going to run the Dip
lomats out of the stadium. They 
marched for a touchdown the first 
time they had the ball, Hubka hit
ting Bill Coleman from 7 yards 
out to finish the drive. The con
version kick was no good, and Tech
Tartans catch F&M's John Alleborn in his own backfield during
lopsided first quarter. T . , . , , ,r ^ Tartan photo by John Mera
I.M. Title Game
Slated For Friday
Playoffs in intramural football have been rescheduled for this week 
with the championship game set for Friday, weather permitting. Rain 
washed out most of last weeks scheduled games as well as the all-star
game.
The only games played last
led 6 to 0.
F&M couldnt move with the 
kickoff and punted. Dick Merrill 
promptly circled left end and 
streaked 59 yards for another 
touchdown.
After missing a two-point con
version attempt, the Tartans kick
ed off and once again F&M couldnt 
move the ball. Tech took over and 
scored again, this time on a 24- 
yard pass from Hubko to Coleman.
The run for the two-point con
version was stopped, but that didnt 
seem to matter as the Tartans led 
18-0 at the end of the first quarter.
Tech threatened several times 
in the second quarter but couldnt 
score. A beautiful Hubko  to - 
Jim Clark touchdown pass was 
called back for an offsides pen
alty, and later on a fourth-down 
pass bounced off Clarks finger
tips in the end zone.
Bell gets ridden out of bounds 
after catching pass.
In the second half the going was 
a little rougher, as F&M put on 
a fierce pass rush and made Hubka 
swallow the ball several times.
Midway through the third per
iod, the Diplomats put together 
their first sustained drive of the 
afternoon. With 5:11 left in the 
quarter, they got on the score
board when Jim Kaufmann scored 
on a 19-yard pass-and-run from 
Murono to make it 18-6, and the 
battle was on.
F&M Capitalizes
After the ensuing kickoff F&M 
held the Tartans and forced a 
punt from deep in Tech territory. 
The center snap sailed over punt
er Jim Williams head, and he had 
to retrieve the ball, dodge two 
tacklers, and kick it on the run.
The punt only traveled about 
ten yards to the Tech 30, and 
two minutes later F&M had a 
touchdown when Kaufmann banged 
over the Tartan goal line from 
the one.The PAT made it 18-13 
at the end of the third quarter.
Early in the final period the 
Diplomats got the break they need
ed to go ahead. With third down 
and long yardage to go for F&M 
at midfield, Murono overthrew his 
receiver, but Techs Bill Scattaregia was called for pass in
terference at the 25. Murono then 
lofted a TD pass to flanker John 
Alleborn to put F&M ahead 20- 
18.
Tech Bounces Back
The aroused Tartans fought back 
and finally scored when Dick Bell 
grabbed a fourth-down 14-yard 
pass from Hubka and fell to his 
knees in the end zone with 2;50 
left.
F&M got the lead back almost 
immediately, however. They re
turned the kickoff to the 50-yard 
line, and Murono passed up the 
middle to Alleborn, who ran all the 
way to the Tech 8 before he was 
hauled down from behind. Then, 
after two running plays were stop
ped cold, left end Bill Glasser 
slanted into the end zone, snuck 
between two Tech defenders and 
took a perfect pass from Murono 
to wrap up the game.
With 1:44 left, Tech had one 
last chance, but defensive back 
Ron Reprez intercepted a Hubka 
pass on the F&M 23. The Diplo
mats ran out the clock while the 
Tartans looked on and wondered 
how they could complete 20 of 33 
passes, out gain F&M 425 yards 
to 273, roll up 23 first downs to 
F&Ms nine, and still be beaten.
Statistics:
Carnegie Tech F&M
23 first downs 9
20/33 passes 12/28
219 net yards passing 191
206 net yards rushing 82
425 total yards offense 273
0 interceptions by 1
2/22.5 punts/average 5/38.2
8/67 penalties/yardage 11/100
Score by quarters:
Carnegie Tech18 0 0 6  24
F&M  0 0 13 14  27
Scoring:
Tech - Coleman, 7, pass from 
Hubka (kick failed).
Tech - Merrill, 59, run (run 
failed).
Tech - Coleman, 24, pass from 
Hubka (run failed).
F&M - Kaufmann, 19, pass from 
Murono (kick failed).
F&M - Kaufmann, 1, run (Bambey, kick).
F&M - Alleborn, 22, pass from 
Murono (Bambey, kick).
Tech - Bell, 14, pass from Hubka 
(pass failed).
F&M - Glasser, 6, pass from 
Murono (Bambey, kick).
EtnRV KC ,RotVCoUNyR
This Saturday the football team 
plays at Denison in Ohio. Anyone 
who would like to get a ride to 
the game, or who would be in
terested in providing transporta
tion, should contact Dick Elder 
at Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Crosscountry Men 
Clobber Geneva, 
Blank St. Francis
Two shutouts almost went in the 
book for Techs cross-country 
runners this past week' as they 
beat Geneva on Wednesday, 16-47, 
giving them only fifth place, and 
shut out St. Francis 15-47 on 
Saturday as the first six men 
crossed the line together in a blan
ket finish. Both meets were on the 
Schenley Park course.
Against Geneva Burkholder took 
first in 23:39, followed by Chris 
Macosko, Roger Cairns, and Eric 
Levine who all tied for second. 
The fifth man home was a Geneva 
runner, followed by Kem Phillips 
and Bernard Flynn.
In the St. Francis meet Burk
holder, Cairns, Macosko, Phillips, 
Levine, and Dennis Collins all fi
nished at 26; 26:16 on a wet, 
slippery course.
Rough Meet Today
This weeks meets will be 
tougher. Today Tech runs at un
defeated Waynesburg, a team which 
has three freshmen who were allstate harriers in high school. 
Waynesburg is so intent on beat
ing Tech that they sent men to 
Pittsburgh on Saturday to scout 
the Carnegie - St. Francis meet. 
Saturday the Tartans are at West 
Minster.
week were Mondays first-round 
games and a league playoff on 
Tuesday. On Monday, October 18, 
SAE scored two touchdowns on its 
first three plays and went on to 
beat PiKA 30-17 while the Grad 
Nads rolled over the E.J.s 44-8 
behind quarterback Bill Kraynek. 
On Tuesday GSIA **F beat DTD 
42-2 for second place in the Giants 
League.
SAE and the Grad Nads are 
scheduled to play today at 4;30. Al
so scheduled today are the winners 
of this Mondays ATO-GSIA F 
and BTP-GSIA *D games. The 
consolation game between the los
ers of today's games is set for 
tomorrow at 4;30 p.m., and the 
championship game is Friday, Oc
tober 29, at 4;30 p.m.
M & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED - NEW MODERN
QUARTERS - ACROSS ST. 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
KWbhGU
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Corrected.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
sHbKM HGM FKHb TQshdhKhMF THE
 SERVICE  ACCESSORIES
 SALES  FMANCIN6
 RENTALS INSURANCE
 AMATEUR RAC INC
681-9935
451* CENTRE AVE 
sWsdM FbMM, FcHb cMQ,&QEKMEF
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
"TAKEN TOKEN"
FvRNktoD C% 7FKQKF FWIHdFLB PNpR 
fCa VRRo rPRoR8RVr Non yCVr VtDot%teNor 
CoR C% rPRy Nllx KPR 7KQ1MG KH1MGL tV 
uaVr 8PNr trV oNyR tyvltRV_ SStr VRwpteRV 
oCrteR rC RpRwfCoR rPNr fCaw 7FKMQ,WB L 
tV 7KQ1MGLS KPtV iRNart%al VrRwltoD VtlpRw 
GtRllC8NwR wtoD tV PNonyNnR if VktllRn 
NwrtVNoV to rPR aot3aR FtNyRVR rRePot3aR 
nNrtoD iNek rC rPR mrP sRorawf ISsS_ Non 
tV tyvCwrRn %wCy KPtNlNonS KPR PNonBB 
eNwpRn %tDawRV NwR iRNart%allf VfyiClte 
C% fCaoD lCpRwV RpRwf8PRwRS hr %trV Nof 
toDRw Non tV vwCanlf 8Cwo if iCrP VRORV 
8PC wRNllf eNwRS dCCk %Cw tr to rPR 
GCpRyiRw tVVaR C% UlNyCaw NDNqtoRS
Q -HE, KH KcM -hFM44
FtoeR rPRVR wtoDV NwR PNonyNnR_ 8R eNo 
Colf tyvCwr N %R8 PaonwRn C% rPRy Nr N 
rtyR_8PteP yRNoV aolRVV fCa CwnRw fCawV 
rCnNf_fCa yNf PNpR rC 8Ntr%Cw Caw oROr 
VPtvyRorS IRrrRw 7wtoD rPNr VrRNnfL wtDPr 
oC8 iR%CwR VCyR elNty uayvRw rwtRV rC 
yCpR toS
$5.95-PIs 25< Postag
R. FIEGER & SON,
P.O. BOX 1986, 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15230
