TARTAN
Volume 66  Number 6Wednesday, October 19, 1966
Peace Corps To Meet 
With E&S Volunteers
During the week of October 24-28, a team of Peace Corps 
Representatives will visit Carnegie Tech. An assembly will 
be held Tuesday, October 25 at 11:30 am in the Wherrstt 
Room in Skibo.
Students who would like a per
sonal interview with one of the 
representatives should fill out the 
form printed below and return it 
to Mr. Eugene H. Milich, Asso
ciate Dean of Men, before this 
Friday.
Volunteers are needed in the 
following fields:
Math and Science:
Twenty-s even countries of 
Africa, Asia and Latin America 
need volunters to teach math and 
science in elementary and sec
ondary schools and universities. 
Interested students must be math
ematics or science majors with 
B.A. or graduate degrees.
Civil Engineering:
Ethiopia, Guinea, Niger, Chile, 
Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, 
Peru, and Iran have asked the 
Peace Corps to provide civil en
gineers to serve as teachers, con
sultants, supervisors and design
ers. The civil engineer who im
parts his skills to local villagers 
^ establishes rapport with them, 
builds needed structures, and 
brings back to this country a 
cross-cultural understanding can 
receive far more from his assign
ment than he gives to it.
Electrical Engineering::
Rural electrification is one of 
the basic and important ways in 
which Volunteers trained in elec
trical enginering can help develop
ing nations such as India, Iran, 
and the South American coun
tries. In addition to demonstrating 
techniques of power distribution, 
volunteers are needed to design 
and maintain electrical equipment. 
They can help small industries 
engaged in the manufacture and
Committee To 
Discuss Food
The Student Advisory Commit
tee for food services has been 
invited to meet this week with 
Mr. R. D. Strathmeyer, vice-pres
ident for business affairs, and Mr. 
Lorenzo Price, director, food serv
ices. Mr. Strathmeyer said he has 
asked the students to meet with 
him because, it has become clear 
that we are not achieving all of 
our objectives.
Mr. Strathmeyer said that he 
feels that discussion between stu
dents and administration will 
provide ideas which will aid the 
administration in establishing 
guidelines for future operations.
In July, 1966, Tech assumed 
complete control of food services 
in order to better control camPus food prices in a spiralling 
market, to better tailor the oper
ation to the needs of the CIT 
community, while maintaining 
the quality of both food and servlce, and as much as possible, provide financial aid for students 
through the establishment of 
Part-time jobs.
A similar meeting with the 
^aculty-Skibo Committee will be 
lequested by Mr. Strathmeyer.
*
repair of electrical and electronic 
equipment.
Mechanical Engineering:
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Hon
duras, India and Kenya have re
quested the Peace Corps to pro
vide mechanical engineers to 
serve as teachers, industrial con
sultants, maintenance supervis
ors, and advisors to local develop
ment agencies. As Volunteers, me
chanical engineers may be called 
upon to help design more efficient 
agricultural tools, new products 
to be marketed by local industry, 
or special equipment for manu
facturing such products. They help 
to lay out water and sewage sys
tems and ventilating systems for 
schools, health centers, recreation 
centers, and government build
ings. They also operate machine 
shops and conduct on-the-job 
training programs.
Industrial Engineering:
By undertaking surveys of pri
vate factories and workshops in 
various fields, the Volunteer en
gineer can help bring to light the 
problems faced by various bus(Continued, on Page 6)
Homecoming 
Awards Given
Merger PeacCor PCrpsrreT 
Ma tepW - Mellon ieeaChE
The teaching role of Mellon Institute fellows at Carnegie University, the reshap
ing of the College of Engineering and Science, and the future of research work at Mellon 
were the chief topics of discussion at a mass meeting of E & S Faculty members and 
Mellon Institute fellows last Monday in Skibo.
of
Randee Rafkin, 1966 Queen re
ceives crown from last years 
Queen Nancy Mosca.
Homecoming Awards were an
nounced last Saturday night at 
the Skibo dance by Bob Black, 
Homecoming Chairman, and Ran
dee Rafkin, Homecoming Queen.
First place among displays was 
Delta Upsilons Showboat, fol
lowed by Tau Delta Phis Tech 
Can-Can the Grovers. Third place 
went to the two thousand lights 
of Phi Kappa Thetas Lights of 
Broadway.
Other Greek awards to Theta 
Xi for top scholarship and to Sig
ma Nu for showing the best school 
spirit for the Homecoming foot
ball game.
The Varsity C Club honored 
Charlie Day and Jim Resnik as 
outstanding back and lineman, 
respectively, in Saturdays con
test.
In addition names of recently 
elected members of the engineer
ing and journalism honoraries 
were read.
William W. Mullins, Dean 
Engineering and Science, had 
said last week that the purpose of 
the meeting was to let profession
al people at E & S and Mellon 
know what progress was being 
made in formulating the ques
tions that have to be answered 
in the proposed merger of Car
negie Tech and Mellon Institute.
Dr. Stever, president of Car
negie Tech, opened the session 
with a short address directed 
mainly at the Mellon contingent. 
Four speakers, two from E & S 
and two from Mellon, gave in
dividual 10 minute talks. Edward 
R. Schatz, Vice-President for Ac
ademic Affairs at Tech and mod
erator of the program, then op
ened the meeting to discussion 
from the floor.
After Dr. Stever apologized 
for a lot of things we, Carnegie 
Tech and Mellon administrators 
did wrong and a lot of things we 
failed to do in the days follow
ing the announcement of the 
merger, he assured the Mellon 
staff that Mellon Institute as a 
name and organization will not 
disappear in the creation of 
Carnegie University and that no 
one intends to handicap the indi
vidual professional in this organ
ization.
"When constraints are made
Poets Sponsor 
Macleish Talk
The International Poetry 
Forum of the Carnegie Li
brary of Pittsburgh will pre
sent the distinguished Amer
ican poet and writer Archi
bald MacLeish today at 8:30 
pm in Carnegie Lecture Hall, 
Oakland.
Born in Glencoe, Illinois, in 1892, 
Archibald MacLeish studied at 
Yale University and Harvard Law 
School. After serving in the Field 
Artillery in World War I, he prac
ticed law in Boston and served as 
editor of Fortune magazine. Since 
the first of his more than twenty 
books was published in 1915, Mr. 
MacLeish has maintained a simul
taneous citizens interest in the 
affairs of state, serving as a Li
brarian of Congress, Assistant Sec
retary of State in the Roosevelt 
administration, Director of the 
U.S. Office of Facts and Figures, 
and an official of UNESCO. For 
ten years he held the Boylston 
Professorship of Rhetoric at Har
vard. Mr. MacLeish received the 
Pulitzer Prize on three occasions: 
for poetry in 1932 and 1953, and 
for drama in 1958. He also received the nation Book Award in 
1953. His works include Collected 
Poems: 1917-1952, Songs for Eve, 
J.B., Poetry and Experience, and 
numerous award - winning docu
mentary scripts for radio, televi
sion, and motion pictures.
on individuals, said Dr. Stever, 
well try to go through a pro
cess where people can object .. 
but were going to have to 
come to compromises because 
were all different kinds of 
people.
Dr. Schatz and Dr. Mullins at 
Carnegie Tech and Dr. G. Ar
thur Webb and Dr. Thomas C. 
Fox at Mellon have been spec
ially appointed to handle sug
gestions on merger procedures 
from E & S faculty and Mellon 
staff members.
Mellon and E & S Speakers
Speakers from Carnegie Tech 
at last Mondays meeting were 
Professor Paul G. Shewmon, 
chairman of the E & S faculty, 
and Dr. Mullins. Dr. Fox and 
Dr. Robert M. Hexter spoke for 
Mellon Institute.
The teaching responsibilties of Mellon fellows, ac
cording to Shewmon, have 
been the largest single point 
of discussion so far in map
ping out the merger.
The most prevalent and val
uable product of Mellon Insti
tute is the trained professional, 
Fox said. By Trained profes
sional he was apparently ref
erring to the post-doctoral re
search fellows and apprentice 
assistants in the Mellon labs.
Hexter reiterated the value of 
this training program by noting
The GREAT SCOT 
Needs Help!
if you would like to work 
on the Christmas issue, meet 
in Skibo 54 at 7 pm Thurs
day, October 20.
Trick or Treat 
Candy Drive
Again this year the Red Cross 
Council, of which Carnegie Tech 
is a member, will sponsor the Red 
Cross Trick or Treat Candy Drive. 
On Halloween night college stu
dents in the Pittsburgh area will 
ring doorbells and trick or treat 
for candy, not money, to be dis
tributed to childrens homes and 
institutions in the area. Anyone 
at Tech wishing to collect candy 
on Halloween may call the Red 
Cross at 471-4923, Youth Services, 
to receive additional information. 
Last year a great deal of candy, 
much of which came from Tech 
students, was given to Juvenile 
Court and with cooperation from 
the campuses the drive this year 
can be just as successful. Again, 
this is a drive fpr candy and not 
money.
that of 90 scientists who have 
graduated from 3-year fel
lowship programs at Mellon since 
1957, 51 are now working at var
ious universities.
Mellon Teachers
As far as teaching Tech stu
dents is concerned, Fox said 
I dont think theres any prob
lem in getting Mellon Institute 
people who want to teach. 
Most senior fellows would want 
to teach at the graduate level, 
according to Hexter, and it is 
precisely at this level that the 
Institute could be of most ser
vice to the new University.
Hexter thinks, however, that 
the idea of establishing Mellon 
Institute as primarily a grad
uate and post-doctoral research 
center ... a superdepart
ment, an interdisciplinary cen
ter for graduate research, sup
ported by federal grants ... is 
the worst mistake we could 
make.
Such an institution would sep
arate graduate and undergradu
ate students, says Hexter, and 
the undergrad must be exposed 
to the sight, sound and smell of 
research. Also, such separate 
grad research centers at univer
sities tend to become contract 
research organizations or breed
ing grounds for spin-off indus
tries. The new Carnegie Uni
versity must be not just Carnegie Tech-dash-Mellon clothed 
in a new name."
In the open discussion period, 
Leo A. Finzi, professor of Elec
trical engineering at Tech, added 
that the undergraduate who 
does not want to go on to grad 
school should not be made to 
suffer from this dichotomy that 
would be created by setting as
ide Mellons facilities and per
sonnel for graduate instructioii 
only.
Physical Problem
Doctor Aksel Bothner of Mel
lon Institute pointed out some 
physical problems in adapting 
Mellon to undergraduate instruc
tion. It is geographically separat
ed from Carnegie Tech, and the 
Institute building itself is not 
suited for the installation of 
classrooms.
Professor Shewmon, discussing 
the re-organization of the Col
lege of Engineering and Science 
to include Mellon Institute, also 
ruled out dividing the college 
along the graduate-under gradu
ate line with Mellon becoming 
the graduate center.
As an alternative he propos
ed the creation of two colleges, 
a college of Engineering and a 
college of Science, with the 
Mellon name being applied to 
the college of Science.
Mullins observed that There 
is now a critical size problem in 
the science departments. He also
(Continued on Page 4)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 19, I960
Through The Looking Glass . . .
Fantastic Voyage
by Timothy Bay
The costliest science fiction spectacle ever ($6,500,000), Fan
tastic Voyage ably fulfills the promise of its title. Before describing 
what is probably one of the most unusual of any movie plots, I 
must state that this requires on the part of the viewer an absolute 
openness of mind and complete willingness to suspend disbelief.
Set some 30 years in the future, the film is about men who 
can reduce anything, people, animals, even whole armies, to the 
size of microbes. Unfortunately, there is a catch; this process of 
miniaturization only works for about 60 minutes; after that, the mic
roscopic creature rapidly grows back to its former size. The one 
person who knows how to suspend this process is seriously in
jured and lies near death in a coma.
We move next to CMDF (Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces) 
headquarters and Edmond OBrien arrayed in a generals uniform, 
smoking a large cigarthe last prop is to convince us that he 
really is a general. OBrien is briefing Stephen Boyd, who plays 
here a security officer. Boyd, along with four others, has been re
cruited to serve as crew member of the submarine Proteus. This 
nucleai-powered sub is to be miniaturized and inserted via a hypo
dermic needle into the bloodstream of the unconscious scientist. 
Once in the bloodstream, the Proteus is to proceed to the brain and 
to destroy the blood clot with a laser beamall within the time 
limit of 60 minutes. Starting from this offbeat, almost comic base, 
we view the Proteus as it journeys through the labyrinth of the 
scientists interior. It is here that the art directors and photographer 
really went to town: We see marvelous, colorful, balloonlike forms 
and weird floating crystalline shapes, at times highly evocative of 
psychedelic art. Arteries, capillaries, ducts are seen in extremes, 
like educational articles in Life magazine.
Despite this brilliant, exotic, unreal scenery, the film faithfully 
follows all the conventions of standard Hollywood fiction adven
ture. Included, of course is the scene where Arthur Kennedy, in 
his best dedicated scientist manner, expounds philosophically on 
the marvelous, intricate system of arteries and vessels before him, 
concluding with the remark that all this is evidence of a Supreme 
Being at work. This hackneyed little bit of Boy Scout profundity 
could well nave come from any number of movies! in the science 
fiction genre.
Instead of meteors, alien beings or lack of fuel, the drama this 
time is created out of the beat of the heart, the wind in the lungs, 
and the gathering of antibodies and white corpuscles to fight off 
invaders in the blockstream.
There is also further plot compliction in the form of a saboteur. 
This piece of business was managed poorly; no one would possibly 
suspect Arthur Kennedy with his wholesome Sunday School philo
sophy of being a saboteur. The real villain is played by Donald 
Pleasance: a small weasel of a scientist, he constantly rolls his eyes, 
speaks softly yet menacingly, and in general acts like a road show 
version of Peter Lorre. He does manage to destroy the submarine, 
but in the end he is devoured by white corpuscles. Without giving 
the show away, I can report that even minus submarine, Boyd and 
ciew do succeed in their mission and get back safely.
Racquel Welch is the female interest, and contrary to true Holly
wood fashion, she manages to go through the show with her 
clothes on.
In general, the acting was good; especially fine was Edmond. 
O'Brien as one of the heads of this shrinking operation. The pro
duction had about it a feeling of suspense, briskness, and above 
all, great credibility and realism. Richard Fleischer, a second-rate 
Hollywood action director, deserves credit along with the art di
rectors for the polished feel of this movie. The script, though, was 
only serviceable; although as a parody of a Grade C science fiction 
thriller, it is perfect.
Despite these qualifications, for sheer technical wizardry and 
creative visual imagination, Fantastic Voyage, now playing at the 
Stanley, is well worth seeingwithout actors it might even have 
been a great movie.
OPENING FRIDAY
TENNESSEE WILLIAMS
HAMLET THEATER
A New Professional Resident 
Company Under The Artistic 
Direction of JOHN HANCOCK
CRAFT THEATER 
A MANS A MAN
A Comedy With Music
adapted by ERIC BENTLEY
All seats $3.30 Sun. thru Fri.$4.40 Sat.
Students: All Seats $1.50 Sun. thru Fri.$2.00 Sat.
RESERVATIONS: 621-4445
THE PITTSBURGH PLAYHOUSE
Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. Pittsburgh, Pa. (15213)
BERTOLT BRECHT'S
YMCA Seeks 
Tech Talent 
For Pitt Show
Folk performers and groups of 
all sorts are being sought to rep
resent Carnegie Tech at an all
city intercollegiate folk event to 
be held at the Pitt Student Union 
ballroom on Friday evening, Oc
tober 28.
Initiated by the Pitt YMCA, the 
Halloween Hoot is the second 
in a seires of events designed to 
provide contact between students 
from all of the colleges in the 
Pittsburgh area. In addition to 
those who will represent Tech, 
students from Pitt, Chatham, Mt. 
Mercy, Duquesne, Point Park, 
Robert Morris and Community 
College will participate. Each 
school will have 15 minutes for 
its presentations, and will be 
judged on the basis of delivery, 
originality, accompaniment, and 
audience reaction. An award will 
be presented to the school which 
presents the best performers at 
the October 28 event and a simi
lar one to be held in the Spring.
The hoot and the dance which 
will follow are open to all college 
students, and admission is 50c 
per person, with ID card. Pro
ceeds from the event will be used 
by the Pitt YMCA to send under
privileged children to camp.
Those who wish to perform on 
October 28 should contact Mel 
Klozer, 208 Donner, or Tom Huff 
at the Tech YMCA office, Skibo 
57.
IMPORTANT!

SCOTCH & SODA 
BOARD MEETING
Sunday, October 23 
1:00 
Wherrett Room
FALL FURNITURE SALE
Bona fide discounts to 40% Off at nearby manufacturer's 
showrooms: Lane, Broyhill, Bassett, Thomasville, Herman 
Miller, Paul McCobb, etc. Details supplied upon request.
Instant Room Beauty thru RUGS
Our rug selection has been described as 
"FANTASTIC!" Your inspection is invited.
1000 9x12 RUGS - SIS to S59
also 6x9s, 12x15s, 12x18s, etc.
CHASES
Op* 10 AM to 9 PM Daily
5432 WALNUT STREET
(Next To Shadytide Port Office)
DIAL 621-1025
7 MAJOR EVENTS - CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
THIS SAT. EVE.,  8:30
The Magnificent Brazilian Brothers
LOS INBIOS TABAJARAS
^ DuoGuitarists of RCA "Maria Elena Fame
|| "BRILLIANT"N. Y.Times
SPECTACULAR"N. Y. Herald-Tribune
SAT. DEC. 3ERROLL GARNER
The Dazzling Jan Pianist Returns To His Home City
~ SAT. JAN. 14FEIS EIRE ANN
The Wonderful Co. of 25 Dancers & Singers from IRELAND
WED. JAN. 18VIENNA CHOIR BOYS
Those Famous 30 Little Angels of AUSTRIA in Operetta & Song
SAT. MAR. 11JOSE GRECO & his
World's Largest Co. of SPANISH Dancers, Singers ft Musicians
SAT. APR. IANDRES SEGOVIA
The Brilliant Maestro- of the Guitar
TUE. APR. 4DON COSSACKS 
DANCERS ft SINGERS
The Original, Serge Jaroff, directorFinal Farewell Tour
and SYRIA MOSQUEFRI. APR. 21 
BALLET FOLKLORICO OF MEXICO
The Fabulous Co. of 100 Dancers, Singers ft Musicians
Special for Tech Faculty & StudentsTickets at 2 FOR THE PRICE OF I 
Best Orchestra or 1st Balcony 5.95Phone Orders Only: 922-2030; 922-2031
A Masterpiece beFe ALURF bNIT
Inspired... Awesomely Absorbing
LIFE MAGAZINE
20th Century-Fox presents
THE DINO DE LAURENTIISProduction ofTl-EBIHE...In The Beginning , ' , ^
Screenplay by
Produced by CHRISTOPHER FRY Directed byDINO DE LAURENTIIS JOHN HUSTON
MUSICAL SCORE BY TOSHIRO MAYUZUMI Original Soundtrack Album on 20th Century-Fox Record
The cast in order of appearance:
MICHAEL PARKS as Adam, ULLA BERGRYD as Eve, 
RICHARD HARRIS as Cain, JOHN HUSTON as Noah,
STEPHEN BOYD as Nimrod, GEORGE C. SCOTT as Abraham,
AVA GARDNER as Sarah, PETER OTOOLE as The Three Angels,
Zoe Sallis as Hagar, Gabriele Ferzetti as Lot, Eleonora Rossi Drago as Lots wife
Filmed in D-150 Color by DeLuxe
SEATS AT BOX OFFICE OR BY MAILWARNER THEATRE. 336-5th Ae.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222 I
Schedule Prices and Performances (Tax Ind.) Phone 391-3447 j
EVES. (Men. thru Thur.).Orch. ft Loge $2:50Bal. S2.00-S1.75 | Pteae end me-------------------ticket for_
EVES. (Fri., Sat.. Sun. ft Hoi.) Orch. ft Loge $3.00Bal. $2.50-$2.00 I
MATS. (Wednesday) .Orch. 4 Loge $2.00Bil. $1.75 *1.50 I QMat DEve. Wt alternate date.
MATS. (Sat., Sun. ft Hoi.) Orch. ft Loge $2.50Bal. $2.00 $1.50 j
EVES.: 8:30 P.M.-SUN. EVE. 8:00 P.M. MATS.: 2:00 P.M. i NAME------------------------------
2nd alternate date.
Pot PeacCoa rcoCp csT MotWi Sales, Mchh Ea&CS Vopltsu 391-3449
WARNER THEATRE336-5th AVE., PITTSBURGH, PA. 15222
STREET.I I
I CITY. I
STATE.ZIP CODE_______ IIPlease mail self-addressed envelope with your check or 
money order made payable to Warner Theatre.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 19, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 3
Really!! theres a time and place for everything!Really? this time 1 know just the place!
Carnegie Hall 
To Hear Harth.
Violinist Sidney Harth, 
head of the music depart
ment at Carnegie Tech, will 
present his fourth major 
New York City recital Oc
tober 25 in Carnegie Hall.
Accompanied by pianist Brooks 
Smith, Harth will perform a pro
gram of seven compositions. High
lighting the recital will be the 
world premiere performance of 
Carlos Surinachs Flamenco Cyclo
thymia, written for Mr. Harth by 
the composer who is now teaching 
at Carnegie Tech.
Included in the program is the 
concert premiere of Fawicks 
Toccata Brutale, which Harth re
corded earlier. Other selections 
are works by Vivaldi, Ben-Heim, 
Beethoven, and Schumann.
Mr. Surinach, who joined the 
music faculty in September, is 
well-known for his Spanish-flav
ored symphonic compositions. He 
is currently composing the score 
for a ballet to be choreographed 
by the surrealist painter Salvador 
Dali.
Opera Tickets
Student tickets for the Pitts
burgh Opera are on sale in the 
Office of the Dean, College of Fine 
Arts, at $2.00 each. Dates of the 
opera October 27 and October 29. 
The tickets available are located 
on the second balcony section C 
Right and C Left, Row L.
the film that 
shocked the 
critics...
E\GLiSH LANGUAGE VERSION
uncensored 
for all 
to see!
Pe acPCo rpse
fOBnf&M'NKflJIMSnMli MU (OK MM MB mwHH Mun-iumu wwssiws mm mam-'SB  J^HiSSmSSm
"NOW SHOWING"
THREE WEEKS ONLY 
Continuous Performances
Music Society 
Opens Series
Rosalyn Tureck, interna
tionally distinguished piano 
soloist, will open the Y.M. & 
W.H.A. Musical Society Ser
ies for the 1966-1967 season. 
Miss Tureck will appear at 
the Y.M. & W.H.A. on Bellefield Avenue on Wednesday, 
October 26, 1966.
Leaflets with full information on 
the Centers programs are avail
able by calling 621-6500 or by 
personal or written request at 
the YM & WHA on Bellefield 
Avenue between Fifth and Forbes 
Avenues in Oakland. Member
ship in the Y Musical Society is 
open to all.
November 9Richard Goode, 
Pianist
November 30Rudolf Serkin, 
Pianist
January 11William P. Nelson, 
Pianist Richard Locker, Cellist 
February 1  Theodore Lettvin, 
Pianist
February 15  Harry FranklinSidney Harth-T h e o Salzman, 
Piano-Violin-Cello Trio 
March 1Oscar Ghiglia, Classical 
Guitarist 
March 22  Jacqueline Du PreStephen Bishop, Cello-Piano Duo 
April 17M. Rostropovich, Cellist
starring Simone Signoret 
Jean Paul Belmondo
- PLUS -
"THROBS WITH EXCITEMENT 
SUSPENSE AND GENUINE TENSION
Bosley Crowther  N.Y. Times
NIGHT WATCH
Bank to Appear
Arnold Bank, associate professor 
of graphic arts at Carnegie Tech, 
will appear on KDKA-TVs series, 
Expression, on October 22 at 
:30 pm. The title of this show 
is Arnold Bank, Calligrapher, 
Part n.
:HELP WANTED
* ti PART-TIME STOCK WORK. *
{Photographic Supplies*
{Apply . . . 1415 Fifth Ave.J
A FASCINATING FILM!
 Crist, World Jour. Trib.
EROTIC SHOCKS!"
Cameron, N.Y. News
&SVChclSsuoer
(AN ADULT MOTION PICTURE FROM SWtDtN)
"SHOCKING! BOLD!"
 Weiler. N.Y. Times
BAWDY!
Wmsten, N.Y. Post
BOLD FACETS OF AMOUR!
 Weiler, N.Y. Times
"AN EXCITING FILM!
 Wo if, Cue Magazine
directed by MAI ZETTERLING 
released by PROMINENT FILMS
DAILY 6, 8, 10.
Sat. and Sun., 2, 4, 6, 8, 10.
the/^ ,.//J MURRAY AT BEACONCJlillU JA. 1-0700
EASTWOODThe NAVARI 
Free Parking  8995 Frankstown Road
NOW THRU SATURDAY ONLY!
ONIY LIZ COULD PLAY THESE WOMEN!Caton a
Hot Tin 
Roof I
ELIZABETH WIDR\ PAUL NEWMAN 1 L BURL IVES
ELIZABETH TAYIDR LAURENCE HARVEY \ EDDIE FISHER
.JOHN OHARASBUTTERFIELD 8
12 M-G-M Re-releases in Metrocolor I
SUN. - MON. - TUES. OCT. 23-24-25
1
 ACADEMY 
AWARD 
WINNER 
BEST PICTURE
(1964)
TONY
RICHARDSONS
IT'S 
BLAS
...OFFI
Margatfltyttierfrrd 
Tfeny-TliOmas
  W Stasa itici
MouSeontheJMOON* io** news conwwtair ------- \Ufa Iniwwfwr:
Please Call Theatre For Feature Times______
STUDENTS! 25c Off Regular Admission with 
Tech I.D. Card when presented at Box Office.
15 MINUTES FROM PITTSBURGH . . . Take Parkway East to 
Exit 12: GREENSBURG PIKE: Turn Right, Keep Right at "Y" 
Intersection; Straight thru 3 Lights on Graham Blvd. at 4th 
Light, Turn Left on Frankstown Rd. Proceed 1 Block to 
Theatre and Park in any of 3 available Lots. (We are 1 
Block below East Hills Shopping Center.)
ROSS HUNTERSTHE PAD
(and now to use it)
TECHNICOLOR
CO-STARRINGBRIANJULIEJAMESBEDFORD SOMMARS FARENTINO
J?SECOND
WEEK
Current Problems Subject
Of YM & WHAs 41st Year
The Most Reverend John J. Wright, Bishop of the Cath
olic Diocese of Pittsburgh, Dr. Emil Trellis, psychiatrist and 
national authority on drug addiction, Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, Dr. Bernard A. Poupko, and other nationally famous 
lecturers and teachers, join to open the forty-first year of 
the nationally famous Isaac Seder Educational Center of the
Y.M. & Y.W.H.A.
Leaflets with full information 
on the Centers programs are 
available by calling 621-6500, or 
by personal or written request 
at the YM & WHA on Bellefield 
Avenue between Fifth and Forbes 
in Oakland.
Dr. Trellis will give a series of 
Thursday evening lectures, begin
ning October 27, on Drug Ad
diction: Hell is When You Are 
Alone. Trellis is the Director of 
the Narcotic Addiction Treatment 
Program at Torrance State Hos
pital, former Psychiatric Chief at 
the U. S. Public Service Hospital 
in Lexington, Ky., consultant to 
many drug addiction programs, 
and member of the Department of 
Psychiatry, School of Medicine, 
University of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Rubenstein will give a series 
of Wednesday evening lectures 
starting October 26 on Whats 
New In Our Thinking Today. He 
will compare the newest findings 
in psychology, theology, ethics and 
morals, philosophy, American and 
European literature. His series of 
Wednesday evening lectures con
tinues through December 7.
Dr. Bernardo A. Poupko, inter
nationally known Rabbi, scholar, 
author and lecturer, approaches 
the problems and the answers on 
Maimonides For Today in a 
series of Monday evening lectures. 
He will look at problems ranging 
from where is God? to War, 
Peace and Vietnam. His lec
tures, which begin Monday, Oc
tober 24, continue through No
vember 28.
The center also offers a Great 
Books discussion series, which 
will meet on alternate Wednes
days from October 26 through 
June 14 and is available for only 
$1.00 for the entire 16 weeks, and 
a Great Books Leader Training 
Course on Thursday evenings 
from October 27 weekly through
December 22. Dr. David Horwitz, 
veteran discussion leader joins the 
first great books group, and Mr. 
Don Levy, a Director of the 
Great Books Foundation, com
mutes from Chicago every week 
to conduct this course.
Design For Living classes are 
again offered. They include all 
levels of Bridge, French, German, 
Hebrew, Italian, Russian, Span
ish, Yiddish, Pattern Making, and 
many more. These are offered on 
week-day evenings and start the 
week of October 24.
English Dept 
Prints Lectures
The department of English has 
announced the publication on Oc
tober 15 of the tenth volume in 
the Carnegie Series in English. 
The new volume is entitled Starr 
of Poets: Discussions of Shakesspeare. Its five essays on various 
aspects of Shakespeares work 
were first presented as lectures in 
the spring of 1964 to honor the 
four hundredth anniversary of 
Shakespeares birth.
The subjects are Shakespeares 
sonnets, by Ann L. Hayes; the 
history plays, by Austin Wright; 
the romantic comedies, by A. Fred 
Sochatoff. The book was prepared 
for publication by an editorial 
committee consisting of John A. 
Hart, chairman, David P. Demarest, Jr., and Lois S. Lewin. It 
will be on sale in the bookstore.
This is the fourth volume in the 
series to be on Shakespeare. Oth
er earlier volumes have been All 
the Kings Men: A Symposium, 
in 1957; Six Novelists, in 1959; 
Studies in Faulkner, in 1961; Lec
tures on Modern Novelists, in 
1963; Six Satirists, in 1965.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 19, 1966
-_______ I
EditorialAftermath
With Homecoming weekend over, the traditional mixed 
reaction to it has prevailed. For many, a big weekend, 
whether bad or good, presents a chance to escape ones nor
mal existence as a student. Nevertheless, a large number 
of students were again disappointed or dissatisfied. In addi
tion, the number of students avoiding the Friday night con
cert and Saturday night dance has grown in size in the past 
few years. In the opinion of most dissenters, the weekend 
lacked unity, informal activities, and originality.
In the past, and the previous weekend was no exception, 
emphasis was seemingly placed .on the Friday night enter
tainment, activities preceding and following the football 
game, and the Saturday night dance, with little regard for 
smaller details that contribute to the unity and uniqueness 
of Homecoming.
Several examples of such events that could be included 
as supplimentary activities are:
__a coffee house, open Friday night after the concert
and Saturday during the dance, which would provide the 
opportunity for variety in entertainment, such as a jazz 
combo, all in an informal, relaxed atmosphere; 
date dinners in Skibo Friday and Saturday night for in
dependents and commuters; 
-extension of the scheduled time for the Saturday night 
dance, including an early breakfast (fraternity houses 
could still be open at midnight,).
The most important point about homecoming or any 
other big weekend on campus is that it should pertain to the 
whole campus and hence should be planned accordingly. While 
it is impossible to cater to individual tastes in terms of enter
tainment or music, many events, with the exception of the 
concert Friday night, and the football game, can be sched
uled with alternative events. Hence several choices are avail
able for a wide variety of tastes. One example of this is the 
use of both a slow and a fast band for Saturday night 
dances. Further, it is important that a majority of student 
opinion be utilized in planning events such as the concerts 
Friday night. Representative student opinion polls are 
seldom accurate, and always include the possibility that 
some faction of student consensus has been neglected. While 
it may be argued that polls of the entire student body are 
no more accurate, since such polls do give any student the 
opportunity to submit suggestions. Many students invari
ably do not realize that they may make suggestions, or even 
when cognizant of this fact, feel it would be to no avail.
Hence, there is a crucial difference between remaining 
open to suggestions, and actively seeking student opinion. 
Certainly a large part of the success of any big week
end is dependent on the individual participants; however, 
the difference between a big weekend, and a Great Week
end rests on the consideration of the desires of the entire 
student body.
carnegie techIIIIITARTANImill
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor.............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor........................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager...........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor............................................. .........................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor.................................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..........................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager.......................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ...............................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor.............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.........Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Moses, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine,
Tom Moore, Richard Morrison, Jane Riva, Diane Samuels, Joanne 
Schneider, Louise Schwerin, Jean Siegal, Rich Steffens, Joan 
Sztyga, Selina Wang, Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David 
Landsberger.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Ellen Blissman, David Caney, Michael Cramer, David Landsberger. 
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausler, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, William Opfermann, Leonard 
Wanetik, Jane Merck.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Contemporary (Commentary
The New Look
by Linda Fecaites
Next week President Johnson will take on the unusual role, for 
him, of globe trotter on his 17 day, 25,000 mile jaunt through South
east Asia. For once, he gives the impression of being completely at 
ease in his role as representative extraordinaire of the United States 
in a foreign country. Up until now, Johnson has been too unsure of 
himself to create an international image of himself other than that of 
a bumbler.
Johnson has so totally immersed himself in the Vietnam situation 
that he can speak with knowledge. Vietnam, although the major 
source of his worries, also gives the President the polish that he 
needs to hold his own with other world leaders. He has given in the 
last week a full-dress news conference and a major policy address 
on United States-central European political relations and has emerged 
without any damage to his image.
THE INTERNATIONAL INVOLVEMENT serves to offset his cur
rent ineffectiveness on domestic issues. Johnson pointed out in his 
news conference that he has passed 75 out of 90 bills in the 89th 
Congress, but admits that he is having major difficulties getting his 
appropriation bills through without them being completely transform
ed in the Senate and House committees.
The new foreign aid appropriations bill is the lowest since 1957 
at 2.94 billion dollars, 443 million dollars below Johnsons request. 
The compromise anti-poverty bill has been cut from 2.1 billion to 1.75 
billion dollars. Also, federal aid to state health programs, Medicaid, a 
tack-on to Medicare, is being greatly reduced.
THE DEMONSTRATION-COTES BILL, one of Johnsons most 
sweeping anti-poverty acts, faces a stiff fight in the House after 
being passed by the Senate. Johnsons trip may cause him to be 
away from some of his most important legislation of the year.
His problems with Congress and the stagnation of the anti-pov
erty war have caused Johnson to turn away from his image as skilled 
domestic administrator towards international problems. The fluctua
tions of the stock market and the failure of any price-wage guide
lines have left him with more public discontent than the floundering 
offensive in Southeast Asia.
Johnson desperately needs to come out of his tour with som^e 
grain of hope for a peace settlement, yet risks offending the Asian 
allies if he steals the limelight at the Manila conference, being held 
at the invitation of President Marcos of the Phillippines. This will 
be the biggest test of Johnsons diplomatic and political skill work
ing together.rC - BOOK Is Coming
Parking Regulations
Carnegie Tech's urban location brings about certain necessary 
regulations applying to the parking ureas maintained by the school. 
The following information is designed to clarfy these regulations.
Facilities
Area No. and Name Entrance Location
1. Fine Arts.........................................Margaret Morrison and Tech St.
2. Scaife Hall..........................................................Frew St. at Scaife Hall
3. Skibo metered............................................Forbes Ave. at Beeler St.
4 Skibo gated..........................................................Forbes Ave. at Skibo
5 Morewood Gardens..............Forbes Ave., West of Morewood Ave.
6. Baker Hall..........................................................Frew St. at Baker Hall
7. Margaret Morrison.....................Margaret Morrison St. near Forbes
8. Warner Hall........................................................Forbes at Warner Hall
9. Emergency or special areas at various locations on campus. Bicycle, 
motorscooter and motorcycle stands.
Parking' permits must be obtained each semester or annually, 
depending on the type of permit. Applications are available at 
the Security Office, BH 139.
Those whose applications are approved will receive non-transferable permits and/or Parkards upon payment of parking fees. Stu
dents, staff, or faculty using the metered areas must obtain a parking 
identification permit at the Security Office. There is no charge for 
the permit. A schedule of operating times and rates is posted in each 
meter head.
Regulations
A. General Regulations
1 Parking areas are restricted and controlled as posted. Space in 
parking areas during restricted hours is available only to register
ed vehicles displaying a currently valid CIT permit for that speci
fic area.
2. Campus patrolmen are assigned the responsibility of overseeing 
and reporting observance of the foregoing rules, of helping with 
parking problems, and in special circumstances, of directing and 
controlling traffic.
3. CIT is not responsible for any vehicle or for the contents of any 
vehicle while it is on CIT premises. The operator and/or owner 
of a vehicle being operated or parked on CIT premises shall at 
all times be responsible in the manner and to the extent set forth 
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code and 
the regulations of CIT.
4. The first offense, except~parking meter violations, recorded in an 
academic year is to result in a warning notice. Subsequent viola
tions will be subject to the established code of fines and/or other 
disciplinary action. A code of violations with prescribed fines and 
penalties is on file at the Campus Security Office.
(Continued from Page 1)
expressed the hope of adding 
other sciences to the curriculum; 
after the merger.
The very concept of a depart- (I 
ment looked like one that 
would create problems in the 
merger. Shewmon noted that in 
a university all research is as
sociated with a specific depart 
ment. Mellons research projects, 
however, are widely diversified 
and interdisciplinary.
Bothner, of MeUon, would 
like to see departmental divisions removed completely in 
graduate school.
The future of high-level re
search projects at Mellon is, of 
course, a problem itself.
As Shewmon said, Tech now 
has non-teaching professorships 
this must change; there is no 
way around it. . . . but the ques
tion arises as to what extent this 
should be done. %
Dean Mullins strictly person
al view is that Cemegie Uni
versity should not make any 
purely research appointments 
to its faculty, although he can 
conceive having professors who 
work only with post-doctoral stu
dents.
Research Criteria
Mullins also laid down some . 
hypothetical criteria for the types 
of applied research the new uni
versity should sponsor. Research 
projects should be suitable for 
direct integration into the uni
versity. Problems should be se
lected for educational as well as 
research value. They must be 
neither trival nor impossible, 
and all results should be pub
lishable. (
It is now a Mellon policy that 
the results of all research must 
be published.
Mullins admits, however, that 
there is some merit in research, 
projects which are affiliated, but 
not integrated, with the curricu
lar. The university, he said, 
needs more contact with real 
problems. Shewmon had prev- / 
iously mentioned the mass trans
portation project now being con
ducted at Tech.
In all, Mullins was optimistic 
about Carnegie Tech and Mellon 
getting together. Our objectives 
are similareducation, research, 
and service.
Dr. Fox, in his closing re
marks, speculated on the value 
of an institution where stu
dents, especially graduates, can 
combine exposure to this In
dependent research communi
ty with formal instruction . .. 
we should think about what 
kind of experiments we can 
do along these lines.
Another mass meeting of E &
S faculty and Mellon fellows 
is scheduled for Wednesday, 
November 9 at Mellon Institute. 
At this meeting, according to 
Paul C. Cross, president of MelIon Institute, the assembly will 
get a chance to see what goes 
on at Mellon scientifically.
Until then, various joint E & S 
Mellon committees will continue 
to meet periodically on merger 
problems.
Committees 'that have been, 
formed include: The Committee 
on Professional Personnel and 
Programs, Academic Organiza
tion Scientific Facilities and 
Equipment; the Committee on 
Non-Academic Employee Policies; 
the Committee on Space, Facili
ties, and Transportation; The 
Committee on Budget, Audit, and 
Accounting; Committee on Pub
lications and Public Relations\ 
Committee on Finance and Devel
opment; Committee on Legal 
Matters; and the Coordinating 
Committee, which includes Dr, 
Stever and Dr. Cross.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 19, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 5
TARTAN DEADLINES
COPY ...Thursday  p.m. pmfarrad; 
Daadlin* Sunday 5 p.m.
ADVERTISING . ..Saturday 4 p.m.
CLASSIFIED ADS ...Sanday 4 p.m.
/^All male students of Clf\ 
are cordially invited to be
aboard the GATEWAY ClIPPER with dates on Saturday 
afternoon, October 22, for
I a boat-ride and lock tour as 
guests of the CIT student post 
of the SOCIETY OF AMERI
CAN MILITARY ENGINEERS. 
Consult the sign-up sheet on 
the R.O.T.C. bulletin board 
in Baker Hall, first floor, for 
\further information.
Anthone Review
The Rivals  A Most 
Congenital Play
by Tony Lawrence
Two Duplexes 
To Complete 
Greek Housing
by E. W. Seley
Two duplexes are being 
planned to house four fra
ternities of the Carnegie 
Tech Campus. The building 
of the additional houses will 
complete the fraternity-dormitory complex program be
gun in 1958.
Suggested plans for the du
plexes include completion dates 
of Spring 1968 for the first, and 
September 1, 1969 for the sec
ond.
The first duplex will probably 
house Kappa Sigma and Beta 
Sigma Rho Fraternities. It will 
be constructed on Morewood 
Place, opposite the duplex now 
housing Phi Kappa Theta and Tau 
Delta Phi fraternities.
The prospective site for the 
second duplex is the land current
ly occupied by the Sigma Nu fra
ternity house on the corner of 
Morewood Place and Morewood 
Avenue. Sigma Nu and Theta Xi 
fraternities will probably occupy 
the second duplex.
Last Thursday the Film Arts 
Society presented undoubtedly 
one of the finest short subjects 
in existence. The brief film dealt 
with a sort of Readers Digest 
considered version of Richard 
Sheridans The Rivals. Appearing 
(from left to right) in the film 
were June G. as Mrs. Malaprop, 
Charles H. as Bob Acres, and 
Jeffrey Chandler (of Blood on the 
Sand fame) as Sir Lucius O Trig, 
ger. The entire cinema treat was 
brillantly mitigated by Dale Whit
man who has certainly lived up 
to his title as One of the Nations 
Most Distinguished Film Organi
zations. Also shown Thursday 
with the short subject was a very 
interesting film called The Cranes 
Are Flying which was all in Rus
sian and was about love, life, and 
war.
The complete unabridged version of The Rivals done by the
Tech Drama Department opens 
tomorrow night in the College of 
Fine Arts Theatre and will run 
until Saturday, October 29. A 
limited number of seatas are still 
available. The production also 
features Drew Snyder as Captain 
Jack Absolute, Arthur Rosenberg 
as Sir Anthony Absolute, Penny 
Windust as Lydia Languish, Lau
ren Friedman as Julia, Laurie 
Jefferson as Lucy, and Chris Cur
tis is doubling with Mark Weihus 
in the parts of Faulkland and 
David. Andy Green playing Fag, 
owns a St. Bernard.
Being vicariously involved with 
the production makes it difficult 
to give an objective review. So 
rather than make a poor attempt, 
Ill simply urge every Tech stu
dent to see an exceptional produc
tion of The Rivals. An assured 
good time will be had by all. The 
entire production was conceived 
and directed by Word Baker.
Falk Lecturer Cites Values;
Tech Profs Evaluate Talks
Speaking on Conservative Values and Student Unrest 
in the opening of The Maurice Falk lecture last week, Dr. 
Edgar Z. Friedenberg began by likening dissenting students 
to classical American conservatives. According to him, both 
groups have tried to preserve the old and valuable. In 
fact, he feels that the Berkeley dissenters had more in com
mon with conservatives than with liberals who were afraid 
of embarrassing the university.
In Dr. Friedenbergs opinion, 
we have no moral elite in Ameri
ca today. Rather, we have a rul
ing class which merely uses ben
evolence as a facade for aggres
sion. If we realized our countrys 
tme motives in Vietnam, for ex
ample, we would become psy
chotic. Unfortunately, in our twoparty system, a consensus ma
chine precludes dissension and 
expression of convictions.
Prompted by questions in the 
Wednesday morning discussion, 
Friedenberg clarified his no
tion of an elite. Having drawn 
from the ideas of John Quin
cy, Alexis de Tocqueville, and 
T. S. Eliot, he conceives of an 
elite as people who are more 
concerned with promoting their 
ideological position than their 
image.
Conversely, finks are people 
who are unwilling to stand up 
for what they believe. When ask
ed about the future of a student 
elite, Friendenberg replied that 
the students are too afraid of 
becoming losers to be an elite 
group. For example, they fear 
that by changing the standards 
of the poor, they might instill 
bourgeois values, which they des
pise, in them.
Sincerity Only Criterion
In his second lecture, Empir
icism and Benevolence as Fac
tors in Aggression, Friendenberg 
used an experimental history to 
document his case that people 
will condone aggression if they 
feel the aggressors motives are 
benevolent. The experiment con
sisted of asking high school stu
dents to comment on hypothetical 
cases of rebellious students being 
disciplined by school authorities. 
Friedenbergs experimental sub
jects approved appropriately mod
ern disciplinary reactions to the 
delinquents, but for the wrong 
reasonsthey never questioned 
the capability of the authorities 
administering the discipline, only 
their sincerity.
Two Carnegie Tech professors 
offered the Tartan critical eval
uations of Friedenbergs talks.
Dr. Peggy Sanday, Anthropolo
gy feels that the highlights of Dr. 
Friedenbergs message should 
be related to the university con
text. She says, Consider the 
fink as the student who con
forms to establishment values by 
parroting the teacher, and the 
loser, one whose intellectual 
honesty forces him to dissent. 
Unfortunately, by penalizing the 
loser, the teacher reinforces finkery. The solution is for the loser 
to become a teacher.
However, the loser balks at 
this because of the dilemma 
posed by the establishments ma
terialistic emphasis on publish
ing. The problem facing the loser 
is to become a finky teacher and 
s,art the cycle over, or, remain 
a loser and look for another job. 
Of course, if students, teachers, 
and university officials formed 
an intellectual honest elite, 
where quality was not measured 
Quantitatively, there would be no 
Problemand, we could delete 
the words fink and loser from 
our vocabulary.
Sensitive Treatment
Miss Doris Y. Wilkinson, so
ciologist, says, Speaking provo
catively, making his values ex
plicit, and demonstrating pro
found insight into human nature 
and behavior, Dr. Friedenberg 
offered a sensitive treatment of 
the failures of the American so
cial system. He indicts contem
porary American elitism, the 
political order, and the value sys
tem as it currently exists.
When one thinks deeply about 
such comments as, you cant 
have a trustworthy elite in an 
open-mas society, and civil lib
erties are not in the hearts of 
people, hope for humanity seems 
an unattainable goal! Finkery, 
however unconscious it may be, 
leaves one with little self-respect 
and only reinforces the estab
lishment! Unfortunately, Dr. 
Friedenberg offered no sugges
tions as to how we might rectify 
the existing state of affairs.
ASME Meeting
Graduate school opportunities 
will be discussed at the ASME 
meeting tomorrow night. Faculty 
representatives from Mechanical 
Engineering, GSIA, and the US 
Army will answer students ques
tions. All are invited to the meet
ing Thursday at 7:30 in the Scaife 
Hall Auditorium.
Sorority Rush Schedule
Sunday, October 30Round Robins.............................Sorority Floors
Sunday, November 6Round Robins............................Sorority Floors
Sunday, November 20Open House*...........................Skibo Ballroom
Sunday, December 4First Invitational Parties......Skibo
Monday, December 5Second Invitational Parties.... Skibo 
Wednesday, December 7Third Invitational Parties. .Skibo 
Friday, December 9Final Parties 
Saturday, December 10Bid Day
Sunday, February 5, 1967Open House*.......................Sorority Floors
No girl may pledge without attending one of these two functions.
CIT Insurance 
Still Available
Because a large number of stu
dents have not purchased the 
Tech-sponsored accident-illness in
surance policy, the insurance com
pany will continue enrollment 
through October 31, 1966.
George K. Brown, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs, strongly urges the 
purchase of this policy, especially 
if the student has no other health 
insurance coverage. Its protective 
features may save the purchaser 
a large amount of money.
Applications are available at the 
Cashiers Office, Warner Hall 
Concourse. Applications will not 
be accepted after October 31,
1966.
Patterns ???? Material
Patterns . . ., Carnegie Techs 
annual literary and art publica
tion, is currently accepting mater
ial for this springs issue. To in
sure a well-planned issue, the 
editors request that all art and 
literature be submitted before 
Christmas vacation. All artwork 
is returned after publication, but 
authors must note on their litera
ture whether they wish the copy 
to be returned.
Material should be submitted to 
Patterns . . ., Box 402, Campus 
Mail. Interested contributors may 
also contact Louis Middleman 
(Literary Editor) at 781-2913, 
Hugh Kepets (Art Editor), or Bet
sy Fausel (Editor) at 683-8734.
Third Place
Phi Kappa Theta
Tartan Photos by FYad Rial
The announcement of the new 
housing for the four fraternities 
is based on the Carnegie state
ment on Fraternity Policy, pub
lished May 21, 1962, which states 
.hat:
All CIT fraternities shall be 
housed in Tech-owned duplex 
housing units no later than Sep
tember 1, 1969. Fraternities
which will occupy the units re
maining to be built may be re
quested to occupy them as ear
ly as September 1, 1968. In any 
case involving the moving of a 
fraternity into these new units, 
Carnegie will give two years 
written notice regarding its in
tent to appropriate officers of 
each fraternity.
The architect for the duplex 
has not yet been chosen. The De
partment of Achitecture at Car
negie Tech is always consulted 
in building matters as it has been 
in the case of the duplex con
struction, according to R. D. 
Strathmeyer, Vice-President f-or 
Business Affairs.
_ f 6 Inwicii I
Delta Tau Deha
HERE CONES THE
First Place
Delta Upsilon

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 19, 1966
Howlett: Civil Rights 
Work Must Continue
If we slow down the process of civil rights, we can 
take it for granted that we will have riots, stated Dr. Dun
can Howlett, Unitarian minister from Washington, D. C., 
in a talk given Monday, October 10, in Skibo.
Dr. Howlett explained that it
is not isolated incidents with po
lice that cause riots, but the re
sults of long-present ghetto con
ditions.
sisted of legislation, marches, 
and picketing. The focal point of 
the second stage, he said, is 
the Black Power concept.
The Negro hates the ghetto 
because it is both psychological 
and physical, he explained. He 
added that the idealists have 
been frustrated. They hoped for 
a bloodless revolution, but the 
legislation failed to change any
thing. They were given a vi
sion of things to come that was 
never realized. In frustration, 
they deserted leadership that 
could not help, and turned to 
activist tactics. Riots were bom 
of this frustration.
According to Dr. Howlett, A 
riot is ... a desire by which des
perate people try to say what 
they feel they can say in no 
other way.
Dr. Howlett feels that the 
Watts riot marked the beginning 
of a second phase in the civil 
rights movement.
The civil rights movement of 
the present is a far cry from 
the thing that it was a year ago, 
he stated.
According to Dr. Howlett, the 
first stage of the movement conDr. Howlett stressed that the 
term Black Power was orig
inally intended to inspire Negroes 
rather than to antagonize whites. 
However, he prefers Ralph Ab
ernathys approach . . . brother
hood, human love, people joined 
together.
To Dr. Howlett, the main prob
lem of the term Black Power 
is that it has become a battle 
cry associated with violence. He 
commented that it has frightened 
certain whites who were former
ly neutral or no-civil rights.
Dr. Howlett feels that we must 
not turn away from the move
ment in spite of this however. 
I say we press on in the fight 
on all points-legislation, poverty 
programs, and housing, he said. 
He considers the latter the key 
to Negro equality. He insisted 
that each of us must do what he 
can to elevate the ghetto Negro. 
However, in closing, he added, 
United you go to a Negro and 
say, Come with me! You have 
not even met your obligation 
halfway.
Peace Corps ? ? .
(Continued from Page 1)
inesses in their efforts to prosper 
and expand. He should be able to 
undertake feasibility studies of 
new industries and recommend 
their formation where appropriate. 
The Volunter industrial engineer 
can also help the schools develop 
course outlines. He may, in addi
tion, give lectures and seminars 
to stimulate interest and under
standing in the field.
Chemical Engineering:
Chemical engineers are needed 
to teach chemistry, science, and 
other related subjects. The manu
facture of synthetic fibers, plas
tics, and similar products is li
mited in engineering nations by 
the lack of funds and facilities. 
However, each country wants peo
ple of its own nation to be quali
fied to fill positions when the 
economy is ready for these de
velopments.
Speaking of the personnel value 
of Peace Corps experience to an 
engineer, one volunteer engineer 
in Tanzania said:
We feel were fortunate serv
ing here in Tanzania. The work is 
up our alley, the people have 
been wonderful, and perhaps most 
of all, we cant escape the feeling 
that were in the right place at 
the right time. As Tanzanias 
Chief Engineer of Roads told us 
during training, I can assure you, 
you wont have been taught what 
you will learn, and it wont be 
found in textbooks. You are 
lucky! 
Forshapes in Pgh. come from...MW. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA
I would like to have an interview with the 
Peace Corps Representative during the week 
of October 24-28, 1966
1. Name:---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Last) (First) (Middle Initial)
2. Address:......................................................................
(School)
(Permanent or Home)
3. Phone:__________________________
(School) (Permanent or Home)
4. Date of Expected Graduation:---------------Major:-------------
5. Most convenient Time(s) for Interview:_________________
Return to Eugene H. Milich, Associate Dean of Menr no 
later than October 21st, 1966. Room 209, Warner Hall.
'67...the best
1. Uni... uh ... now that we know 
each other a little, I was won
dering if, uh, you think Im the 
type of guy you could go for?
I could go for a 
real swinger.
2. I have an exciting pipe 
collection.
I want to be where 
the action is.
Hold that crease?
You bet it will.
If the fabric is one of the great, 
new permanent-press blends 
of 2-ply polyester and cotton 
masterminded by Galey & Lord. 
For the new dimension 
in collegiate slacks, 
look to
BtirlUitfion
3. I know some daring chess 
openings.
I want a man whos 
making it happen.
4.
Hows about showing 
me that pipe 
collection, swinger?
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. 
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write: Patrick Scollard, Manpower Development Division.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019 Equitable 1966 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F
with 
in in
things
5.1 spend a lot of time in 
the library.
My motto is fun today 
and fun tomorrow.
I guess you wouldnt be 
interested in someone like me 
who has landed a good-paying 
job that will let his family 
live well and who, in addition, 
has'taken out a substantial 
Living Insurance policy from 
Equitable that will provide 
handsomely for his family if, 
heaven forbid, anything should 
happen to him.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 19, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 7
Tour Of Presidents Home 
Indicates Broad Interests
by Sue Attinson
Tartan Photo by Gordon Morris
Its easy to live in for the kids and everyone else . . . 
not so formal that you cant relax and enjoy it. President 
and Mrs. Stever are pleased with their brown and white 
Tutor tree-framed home on Devon Road, and they say that 
other college president are envious.
Formerly the home of Henry 
Hillman, well-known financier and 
University of Pittsburgh trustee, 
it was purchased by Carnegie 
Tech at the suggestion of Dr.
Stever who preferred it to the 
fortress on Morewood Ave. Al
though the president and his 
family (Sarah, 17; Guy Jr., 19;
Margo, 14; Roy 12; and a cocker 
spaniel) moved into the house in 
June, 1965, the redecorating was 
not completed until the follow
ing October.
The first floor, including a mu
sic room, library, diningroem, livingroom, and kitchen, has accom
modated as many as 225 guests.
To the right of the main entry is 
a library where Dr. Stever says,
I write those speeches . . . Wall
papered in gold textured Japan
ese grass cloth, the room is dec
orated with prints by Hiroshige.
A single-slabbed walnut table by 
Nakashimasimilar to the furni
ture in the presidents Warner 
Hall officestands adjacent to a 
high rosewood writing table and 
stool. A light wood carved baro
meter on the wall was found in 
Dr. Warners attic. As in several 
rooms, oriental rugs are scattered 
on the floor.
From the library one enters the 
livingroom. Paneled in English 
walnut, with leaded windows 
leading out to a terraced garden, 
this room contains the presidents 
stereo. The carpeting is a neu
tral beige; the upholsteryvary, 
ing tones of green, blue, and 
whitecovers a plump sofa, loveseat, and several comfortable
chairs. As does each major room . 14  _ ,. . built-in golf course. Wehn heron the first floor, the livingroom , , , , ,  ,, 0 i . T 7. husband scores a light flasheshas a large fireplace. In it areotherwise the ball goes under the 
radiator.
Clusters of yellow flowers on 
white greet visitors in the of
ficial guest room. However, the 
Stevers prefer to house guests 
in Sarahs room on the third 
floor (Sarah is attending Sarah 
Lawrence College). From there
Tartan Photo by Gordon Morris
rounded filigree thistle and irons 
of which Mrs. Stever is particu
larly fond.
The bright diningroom is 
walled on one side by a win
dow to the garden. Plants on the 
window sill can be artificially 
lit at various intensities. Rose
wood candlesticks, a gift from 
Carnegie Tech alumni, grace 
the fireplace. As shown by his 
selection of knicknacks, the 
president likes unpainted wood.
To the left of the main entrance 
is a music room. Housing a Stein
way baby grand piano it is pa
pered with gold imprints of 
George Ills stamp tax seal on 
a white background. Apparently, 
in Connecticut Mrs. S t e v e rs 
family holds a land grant charter
from that king. On the wall is a 
painting of Chartes Cathedral Tech 
graduate. The artist agreed to sell 
this work only when Dr. Stever 
came to Carnegie Tech. Furnish
ings are in gold and torquoise.
Appropriate for Canaries
At the head of the main stair
case is what Mrs. Stever calls 
the halfway up room. She thinks 
that it would be appropriate for 
canaries but presently fills it with 
a childs desk, high chair, and 
pale blue/white brocade sofa.
The presidents suite includes 
a blue/green/white floral papered 
bedroom, two dressing rooms, the 
sie of Morewood singles, and an 
oak paneled study. I used to hunt 
with a bow and arrow, says the 
president. His weapons line the 
study walls beside filled book
cases. Mrs. Stever points out the
Academic Policy 
Committee Plans 
Years Projects
The Student Academic Ad
visory Committee will hold 
its first meeting tomorrow, 
October 20, in Room 55, Skibo at 4:30. All students in
terested in working on the 
committee or with sugges
tions regarding any aspects 
of academic affairs at Tech 
are invited to attend.
The primary purpose of this 
committee is to establish effec
tive means of communication 
among the administration, facul
ty, and student body concerning 
the many aspects of academic 
policy at Carnegie Tech. Com
mittees are presently being or
ganized on department and col
lege levels, and four students 
currently meet with the Academic 
Affairs Committee of the admin
istration. The department com
mittees will met with individual 
department heads principally to 
discuss individual courses and in
structors in the context of the 
department. The college commit
tees will meet with the deans of 
E & S, Margaret Morrison, and 
Fine Arts colleges to discuss more 
general academic policy. These 
groups will be coordinated through 
to the Academic Advisory Com
mittees so that common problems 
can be discussed for further ac
tion.
This committee will also spon
sor a series of student-faculty dis
cussion groups again this year to 
bring students and faculty togeth
er on an informal basis. One ma
jor concern which has not yet 
(Continued on Page 8)
Tartan Photo by Gordon Morrla
is a good walk to the noisier 
section of the house. And the 
room is air conditioned, as are 
the library and bedroom suite.
Roys second floor red and white 
room with two walls of windows, 
Mrs. Stever calls nifty. It is 
entered through what Dr. Stever
Tartan Photo by Gordon Morrla
identifies as the childrens up
stairs room where I watch foot
ball with the kids. Also in the 
playroom is a bongo board, mas
tered by each member of the 
Stever household.
Margos pink floral bedroom is 
filled with stuffed animals, hockey sticks and ski souveniers. All 
of the Stevers are enthusiastic 
skiers. They vacation at a house 
in New Hampshire near Mount 
Washington. Guy (a student at 
Colgate) does not make much use 
of his third floor room. Adjacent 
to it are two bedroom-sized stor
age rooms and a small guest room 
for the childrens visitors.
The president has equipped 
his own darkroom and wood
working shop. In the basement 
is a safe-wine cellar where, ac
cording to Mrs. Stever, we 
store dishes and cultivate cob
webs.
The family employs a superb 
cook, Charlotte,who used to work 
for the Warners. They also have 
help to care for the grounds. Sur
rounding property includes sever
al stepped flagstone terraces, gar
dens, and a fenced-in, grassedover tennis court in which the 
dog is kept.
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendel
MUSIC . . .
Jazz, Pittsburgh Style, featuring Harold Bettors, Joe Negri, Eric Kloss, 
Johnny Costa, and Benny Benado. 8:00 pm, October 19, at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall. Tickets $2.00 and $2.50.
Pittsburgh Symphony: Arthur Grumiaux, violin soloist. William 
Steinberg, conductor. Syria Mosque. Friday, October 21, 8:40 pm; 
Sunday, October 23, 3:10 pm.
The Los Indios Tabajaras: A Guitar Duo, Saturday, October 22, 8:30 
pm Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets $5.95.
University of Pittsburgh: Organ Recital, Robert Lord. Baroque and 
Renaissance Music. Heinz Chapel. October 23. Free.
Anna L. Perlow Music School of Y-IKC: Faculty Recital. 5738 Forbes. 
All-Bach program. Ozzie DePaul, violin; Irvin Kauffman, guitar; 
Allen Sher, cello; Sandra Schwartz and Rosalyn Sher, piano. 
Sunday, October 23, 8 pm.
Duquesne University: Faculty Concert. Kenneth Bruscia, piano. Re
cital Hall, School of Music. October 23, 8:30 pm.
Mt. Mercy College: Faculty Chamber Music Concert. Recital Hall,
Music Department. October 25, 8:15 pm. Free.
Duquesne University: Pledge Recital of Mu Phi Epsilon and Phi
Mu Alpha, music fraternities. Recital Hall, School of Music. 
October 25, 8:30 pm. Free.
LECTURES ....
Dr. Morton H. Fried, chairman of the Department of Anthropology 
at Columbia University, will speak of The Family in Modern 
China, Thursday, October 20, 11 pm in the Chatham College 
Chapel.
The International Poetry Forum presents readings by Archibald 
Macleish. 8:30 pm, October 19, at the Carnegie Lecture Hall.
DRAMA ....
A Mans a Man, John Hancock. Slapstick and 1920s songs rolled into 
a black comedy of terrors. 8:30 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 
Saturday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. Information at 
621-4445, Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. Ad
mission $3.30.
Streetcar Named Desire, John Hancock. Tennessee Williams haunt
ing story of a beautiful woman betrayed by love. 8:30 Tuesday 
through Friday; Saturday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30. Ham
let Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse. Information at 621-4445. 
Admission $3.30. Starts October 21.
Jonas, a film presented by the Pitt COTA International Film Series. 
Wednesday, October 19, 7:30 pm. Pitt Student Union Ballroom
EXHIBITS ....
Old Master Prints, from the National Gallery of Arts, circulated by 
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Henry 
Clay Frick Fine Arts Gallery, University of Pittsburgh. Now 
through Sunday. 12 noon to 4:30 pm, Monday through Friday;
1 to 5 pm, Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday.
Paintings, jewelry, and stitchery by Audrey Buonocore. Art Gallery, 
26th floor, Cathedral of Learning, University of Pittsburgh. Now 
through October 31. 9 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday.
Sculpture by James Hagan. Falk Hall Foyer, Chatham College. Now 
through Sunday, 10 am to 5 pm; Monday through Saturday, 2 
to 5 pm, Sunday.
Chinese Art form, The Collection of Walter Reed Hovey. Museum of 
Art, Carnegie Institute, 440 Forbes Ave. Treasure Room. On 
continuous display. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Saturday;
2 to 5 pm, Sunday.
Photographs by Harold Corsini. Pittsburgh Artist Series on third 
floor at Gallery K, Carnegie Museum. Now through October 30.
Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and Shady Aves. 10 am to 5 pm, Mon
day through Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday. Twenty-flrst Annual 
Exhibition, Pittsburgh Water Color Society. Now through Sun
day.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 N. Negley Ave. Exhibit of work by 
Virgil Cantini. Now through Nov. 16.
Buhl Planetarium. Sea and the Stars. At 2:15 and 3:15 pm, weekdays, 
and 2:15, 4:15, and 8:15 pm on Sundays. For information, pall 
321-4300.
INFORMAL ENTERTAINMENT . .
The Crumbling Wall Coffee House, 4515 Forbes Ave. (near Craig 
St.) Every Friday evening 9 pm to 1 am. Cider, coffee, tea, etc.
LINCOLNPANCAKE
Num6be3703 ForbesT^rrTi /Dnlrlsinri \
Pa.
i si
3or WeJs -At 
WJ.rat. Prie,* . . . 
Or s4n s4fter heater
Snach ... oh
. . We Also Have ..
17 Varieties of Pancakes 
('Forbes & Atwood6 a.m.-3 a.m.)
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue 
PHONE: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Most Items

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 19, 1966
Academic
(Continued from Page 7) 
been acted upon by the committee 
is the possibility of organizing a 
meaningful system of course and 
teacher evaluation. Such a system 
must be thoroughly examined, 
and new alternatives and con
crete suggestions must be pre
sented before such action would 
be effective. If sufficient interest 
is shown, a more definite pro
gram for evaluation can be for
mulated.
Anyone interested in working 
on any of the projects mentioned 
above should either attend the 
meeting or contact chairman Richard Londergan at Beta Theta Pi, 
683-5148.
Kent Display
There will be an exhibition of 
50 linoleum and woodcuts by Nor
man Kent in the Porter Garnett 
GalLery, third floor BH from Oc
tober 22 to November 4. Hours 
are 9 am to 5 pm Monday through 
Friday and 9 am to 12 noon Satur
day.
Mr. Kent is a nationally known 
printmaker, a Pittsburgher by 
birth; he is a National Academian 
(N.A.), and Editor of American 
Artist.
Mr. Kent will also deliver an 
illustrated lecture on The Romance 
of the Woodcut. The lecture will 
be held in Breed Hall at 8 pm 
Wednesday, October 26. All inter
ested people are invited.
Fifty years ago only made aeroplanes
(See whats happening now!)
Tech Poets
Five members of the Carnegie 
English Department are represent
ed in a newly published collection 
of poems entitled Cathedral Poets 
I, edited by Professor Lawrence 
Lee of the University of Pitts
burgh and printed by the Box
wood Press. The Carnegie Tech 
faculty members whose work ap
pears are Gladys Schmitt, Doro
thy Goodfellow, Richard OKeele, 
Lois Lewin, and Ann Hayes.
New Boeing 747
Boeing 737 Twinjet
Residence 
of Distinction
Boeing 727 Trijet
ONE ROOM, Kitchenette 
equipped, one bath, beauti
fully furnished$155. up.When you cant afford to be drowsy, 
inattentive, or anything less than all there. .. heres how to stay on top. 
V/?V Continuous Action Alertness 
Capsules deliver the awakeness of 
two cups of coffee, stretched out
up to six hours. Safe _____
and non-habit-forming. alt
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very 
attractively furnished, $275. 
up.
NASA Lunar Orbiter L*
UNFURNISHED 1 & 3 ROOM 
APARTMENT, also when 
available.
FAIRFAX HOTEL
114 5th AVE. Phon: 621-4030Continuous Action 
Alertness CapsulesBoeing-Vertol Helicopter
Boeing Supersonic 
Transport designPittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 
3 FINE STORES
uwe
US A F Minuteman II
USN Hydrofoil Patrol Craft
Engineers n ScientistsNASA Saturn V
Campus Interviews, Monday & Tuesday, Oct. 31 & Nov. 1
In 1916 The Boeing Companys career was 
launched on the wings of a small seaplane. 
Its top speed was 75 mph.
you desire an advanced degree and qualify, 
Boeing will help you financially with its 
Graduate Study Program at leading univer-PRICE $375
One of the most beautiful solitaire engagement rings 
ever designed. A die struck mounting in gleaming 18 
Kt. White Gold.
Worlds Finest Diamond to Fit Yotir Budget!
if!\ \l ROItf KIS ' SON (<
Pittsburgh  429 |Wood St. 
Mt. Lebanon  731 YY ashington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
Now, half a century later, we can help you 
launch your career in the dynamic environ
ment of jet airplanes, spacecraft, missiles, 
rockets, helicopters, or even seacraft.
Pick your spot in applied research, design, 
test, manufacturing, service or facilities 
engineering, or computer technology. You 
can become part of a Boeing program-inbeing, at the leading edge of aerospace tech
nology. Or you might want to get in on the 
ground floor of a pioneering new project.
Youll work in small groups where initiative 
and ability get maximum exposure. And if
sities and colleges near company facilities.
Often it will be sheer hard work. But we 
think youll want it that way when youre 
helping to create something uniquewhile 
building a solid career. Visit your college 
placement office and schedule an interview 
with our representative. Boeing is an equal 
opportunity employer.
Divisions: Commercial Airplane  Missile & Infor
mation Systems  Space  Supersonic Transport  
Vertol  Wichita  Also, Boeing Scientific Research 
Laboratories

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 19, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 9
Steel and Country
The French Cultural Center of 
Western Pennsylvania is sponsor
ing an exhibit, Steel and Coun
try by the French Painter Claude 
La Coudre in Skibo until October 
31.
The French artist has previously 
exhibited in London, Paris, New 
York, and Tunis. His native city 
of Paris awarded him its Prize 
for Young Painters in 1954; in 
1960 he received the Prix Gau
guin, and he was chosen for the 
New Yorks Critics Prize in 
1962.
La Coudres works are included 
in the collection of the Museum 
of Modern Art of Paris and New 
York and in numerous private col
lections.
You're under 25 
bnt you drive like an expert.
Why should you 
have to pay extra for you 
car insurance?
Sentry says you may 
not have to. A simple questionnaire could save 
you up to $50 or more. 
Call the Sentry man 
for fast facts.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE. 
795-1393
SENTRY, il INSURANCE
Slide Rule Session
Tau Beta Pi engineering hon
orary will hold a help session 
tomorrow at 4:30 in DH 2210 for 
anyone wishing to learn more 
about using his slide rule. CD and 
Log scales will be discussed.
LEWIS*
Sales-Repairs 
RADIO  ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
e TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION
OFFERS ASHABBAT DINNER
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21st - 5:15 p.m.
1st FLOOR  Y.M. & W.H.A., 315 South Bellefield Avenue 
RESERVATIONS required by WEDNESDAY, October 19th 
at the Hiflel Office, Y.M. & W.H.A. or call 621-8876 
MEMBERS AND NON-MEMBERS WELCOME $1.50
..ALSO..
THE HILLEL BRUNCH
MR. JUDD TELLER of New York
Distinguished historian and author of 
"The History of the Jews," published by Bantam Books 
will speak on
"THE AMERICAN-JEWISH ESTABLISHMENT"
Sun., Oct. 23rd, 1966, Faculty Dining Room, Skibo, 11 a.m. 
Bagels and Lox will be served. Members, 75c; Non-Members, 1.25
ENGINEERS
CHEM. E. CIV. E. IND. E. M.D.
urgently needed for positions in Air Pollution Control with 
the Pennsylvania Department of Health. Work includes plant 
inspections, field investigations, sampling surveys, and the 
recommending of corrective measures.
1. A.P.C. Engineer I, starts $7,055 with 5% annual increases, 
degree from accredited engineering school required.
2. A.P.C. Engineer II, $7,772 to $9,923, above degree phis 
one year's experience.
3. A.P.C. Engineer III, $9,011 to $12,075, above degree plus 
three year's experience.
EXCELLENT CAREER OPPORTUNTIES 
STATE CIVIL SERVICE WITH EXTENSIVE FRINGE BENEFITS
CALL OR WRITE 
VICTOR SUSSMAN
Room 1003, Health and Welfare Building 
Seventh and Forster Streets 
Harrisburg, Pa.
Area Code 717 Phone: 787-6838
ENGINEERS
Interested in ENGINEERING of INDUSTRIAL PLANT FACILITIES 
or FIELD ENGINEERING on CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
You are invited to discuss your career opportunities in
THE RUST ENGINEERING COMPANY
PITTSBURGH, PA. (Headquarters)  BIRMINGHAM, ALA.  CALHOUN, TENN.
Construction Projects The World Over
Rust offers you unusual opportunities because of its growth and diversity. 
The Company has performed more than 10,000 contracts in 48 states and 
22 foreign countries for most industries and government agencies.
Mr. Ward Speer_will be on campus.
to interview interested civil, mechanical, electrical (power option), and archi
tectural engineering students. Make appointment through placement office.
FALL CYCLE SALE
Ml . J . BOHN
CYCLE SHOP
2400 Sawmill Run Blvd.
TRIUMPH  
MONTESA
YAMAHA 
 OSSA
The Headquarters of Enduro Champions
if On Campuswith MaxStralman
(By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!, 
Dobie Gillis, etc.)
ASK PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR BOOKLET, "Your Doorway to Diversified Engineering and Contract
ing, which describes in detail the career opportunities available at Rust.
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH
Way back in 1953 I started writing this column about 
campus life. Today, a full 13 years later, I am still writing 
this column, for my interest in undergraduates is as keen 
and lively as ever. This is called arrested development!
But where else can a writer find a subject as fascinating 
as the American campus ? Where else are minds so nettled, 
bodies so roiled, psyches so unglued?
Right now, for example, though the new school year has 
just begun, youve already encountered the following dis
asters :
1. You hate your teachers.
2. You hate your courses.
3. You hate your room-mates.
4. You have no time to study.
5. You have no place to study.
Friends, let us, without despair, examine your problems 
one by one.
1. You hate your teachers. For shame, friends! Try 
looking at things their way. Take your English teacher, 
for instance. Heres a man who is one of the worlds 
authorities on Robert Browning, yet he wears $30 tweeds 
and a pre-war necktie while his brother Sam, a high school 
dropout, earns 70 thou a year in aluminum siding. Is it so 
hard to understand why he writes F on top of your 
themes and Eeeyich! in the margin? Instead of hating 
him, should you not admire his dedication to scholarship, 
his disdain for the blandishments of commerce? Of course 
you should. You may flunk, but Pippa passes.
2. You hate your courses. You say, for example, that 
you dont see the use of studying Macbeth when you are 
majoring in veterinary medicine. Youre wrong, friends. 
Believe me, some day when you are running a busy kennel, 
youll be mighty glad you learned Out, damned Spot!
3. You hate your room-mates. This is, unquestionably, 
a big problemin fact, the second biggest problem on 
American campuses. (The first biggest, of course, is on 
which side of your mortar board do you dangle the tassel 
at Commencement?) But there is an answer to the room
mate problem: keep changing room-mates. The optimum 
interval, I have found, is every four hours.
4. You have no time to study. Friends, Im glad to re
port there is a simple way to find extra time in your busy 
schedule. All you have to do is buy some Personna Super 
Stainless Steel Blades. Then you wont be wasting pre
cious hours hacking away with inferior blades, mangling 
your face again and again in a tedious, feckless effort to 
winnow your whiskers. Personna shaves you quickly and 
slickly, easily and breezily, hacklessly, scrapelessly, tuglessly, nicklessly, scratchlessly, matchlessly. Furthermore, 
Personna Blades last and last. Moreover, they are avail
able both in double-edge and Injector style. And, as if this 
werent enough, Personna is now offering you a chance to 
grab a fistful of $100 bills. The Personna Super Stainless 
Steel Sweepstakes is off and running! You can win $10,000 
and even more. Get over to your Personna dealer for de
tails and an entry blank. Dont just stand there!
5. You have no place to study. This is a thorny one, Ill 
admit, what with the library so jammed and the dorms so 
noisy. But with a little ingenuity, you can still find a quiet, 
deserted spotlike the ticket office of the lacrosse team. 
Or a testimonial dinner for the dean. Or the nearest re
cruiting station.
You see, friends? When youve got a problem, dont lie 
down and quit. Attack! Remember: America did not be
come the worlds greatest producer of milk solids and 
sorghum by running away from a fight!
1966. Max Shulman
The makers of Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades (double-edge or Injector style) and Burma-Shave (regular or menthol) are pleased (or apprehensive) to bring you another year of Max Shulman's uninhibited, uncensored column.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 19, 1966
IM Review
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON
Tartan Sporta Editor
Tartan Win Streak Broken 
As Grovers Romp, 52-35.
Well, even the best teams lose once in a while. The Tartans 
dropped a heart-breaker in a game that showed more Tartan errors 
than all previous games. Tom Hubka had five of his passes inter
cepted after going through three games without losing any. But you 
cant take anything away from Grove City. The Gators offense, led 
by quarterback Mike Zeigler, was by far the most crushing attack 
the Tartans have faced all season. But this is all water over the dam, 
and the Tartans still have the finest team weve seen all season. 
*****
The crowd at last Saturdays game was by far the largest and 
most enthusiastic crowd to witness a Tartan football game in many 
years. The entire section of seats was full, and there was at least 
another thousand people on the bank on the opposite side of the 
field. It was really great to see the huge crowd come to life as the 
Tartans made their spectacular comeback, only to see them all leave 
very disappointed. I hope that this enthusiasim will prevail through
out the rest of the season.
*****
Speaking of enthusiasim, wasnt it interesting to see how the 
school spirit of a couple of fraternities (I wont mention any names, 
but Ill give you a clue: they both start with Sigma) improved when 
they found out they could get a trophy for it. Well, I guess its none 
of my business if the CFP wants to buy the campus some school 
spirit, but frankly, it would impress me a lot more if they could get 
the campus spirited by a different means.
***** 
Congratulations to Paul Beshenick and Charles Zak for winning 
the outstanding player award during the Homecoming game. Both 
of them played an outstanding game for Tech, even though it was 
wasted in a losing effort.
*****
Hopefully, you have noticed the new column appearing on the 
sports page entitled IM Review. It is hoped that this will provide 
a more exacting coverage of the IM competition. The writers of IM 
Review are Jim Lippman, Tony Rees, Jim Janke, and Jeff Ruben. 
I will be very grateful for any comment or criticisms on the column. 
*****
By far the greatest game in NCAA competition is coming up 
soon; Notre Dame takes on Michigan State in a battle of the giants. 
My personal pickNotre Dame.
Packers LeagueTennis
TeamWonLostTeamWonLost
Grad Nads M40EJs B30
PiKA30DTD10
SN10Sigma Nu31BTP00
GSIA E23BSR00
ATO B14TX01
DTD05GSIA B02
Grad Nads AA02
Colts LeagueTartan League
TeamWonLostTeamWonLost
BTP40Grad Nads A20
Architects41EJs A10
PKT11F troop23SAE Lions11GSIA H12GSIA E00
PKT13TDP01
TDP J14EJs C02
Tartan Harriers 
Still Unbeaten
The Carnegie Tech Tartans 
clobbered the St. Vincent Cross 
Country team on St. Vincents 
own 4 mile course last Friday. 
The Tartans, paced by cocaptain 
Harry Burkholder, captured the 
first six places and eight of the 
first 11. The short and fast course 
was covered in 21 minutes seven 
seconds by Burkholder, and he 
was closely followed by Flynn, 
Cairons, Levine, Butler, and Peschel. The final score of 15-47 once 
again showed a strong perform
ance as the team prepares for 
the togh final three home meets.
By Don Baer
Today the team is at Geneva 
College, and Saturday they travel 
to St. Francis, but neither meet 
is expected to be very rough. 
Next Wednesday marks a big 
meet with a very strong Waynesburg team. Last year they defeat
ed Tech on their own course.
Harry Burkholder (T)21:07
Bernie Flynn (T)21:31
Rodger Cairns (T)21:57
Eric Levine (T)22:18
John Butler (T)22:18
Dale Peschel (T)22:29
Vince Kuharic (SV)22:30
Vince Kadlubek (SV)22:55
Fred Seitz (SV)23:14
Dennis Collins (T) -23:38
By Ron Finnin
Carnegie Tech lost its first game of the season to an overpowering Grove City team. 
The only time Tech appeared to be the better ball team was in the third quarter when 
they made their sensational comeback to score twenty straight points and take the lead
the only time in the game, 
though, as they couldnt get 
series of passes, it seemed to end 
with an interception. Even Techs 
defense, which is usually their 
strong point, was haivng poor 
luck as Grove Citys quarterback 
literally ran circles around them 
in the backfield or else zigzaged 
his way towards the goal line. 
The game also pointed out that 
the Tech team is lacking serious
ly for speed when up against a 
team as fact running as Grove 
City.
Grovers Score First
Grove City scored first in the 
game when George Santypal in
tercepted a Hubka pass in the
Tech looked like the underdo 
their running attack moving,
They only needed one play, a 
pass from Zweigler to Snead, to 
get the TD. Zweigler than passed 
to Wyman for the extra two.
Tech received the kickoff and 
again on the first play Hubkas 
pass was intercepted, this time by 
John Naugle. Grove City had 
equally bad luck however as on 
the second play they fumbled and 
it was recovered by Techs Ken 
Gianni. Then Hubka completed a 
pass to Bell who, with some beatiful faking, streched it to 60 yard 
again. Hubka then passed to 
Charles Zak for the totfchdown
Es for the rest of the game, 
and every time they tried a
Hubka passed to John Barnes for 
18; but then another Hubka to Bell 
pass was intercepted, this time 
by Larry Sawyer who ran it all 
the way back for the TD. Zwei
gler carried it across for two, and 
at 44-35 and with time running 
low, the game was lost for the 
Tartans.
Grove City wasnt ready to quit, 
however, as Lynn Crawford re
covered a Tech fumble on the 
Tech 18, and two plays later 
Zweigler ran it over for the last 
last TD of the game. A pass from 
Pendergast to Wyman made the 
final two, and the game ended 
Grove City 52, Carnegie Tech 35.
All in all the game was the 
most exciting one Tech has play
ed al year and perhaps the bestfought. The huge Homecoming 
crowdwa s full of school spirit 
and the team seemed somewhat 
up for the game throughout, 
though in the third quarter you 
could see the difference as they 
came out of the huddles. Next 
weekend the Tartans will travel 
to Franklin and Marshall again 
to try for number four.
Statistics 
Tech Grove City
15 First Downs 12
65 Yards Rushing 154
273 Yards Passing 131
16-30 Passes 5-8
5 Had Intercepted 0
1 Fumbles Lost 1
4-21.8 Punts 7-19.7
Score by Quarters 
Tech 0 15 20 0
Grove City 14 16 0 22
Football
Browns League
TeamWonLost
ATO A40
GSIA F21
Bandits41
TDP A22
BSR14
SAE B05
Cowboys League
TeamWonLost
EJs40
KS41
SAE A32
Grad Nads F3'3
BTP B33
DU14
TX05
1st quarter and ran 30 yards 
to the Tech 11. Three plays later 
the quarterback, this time Paul 
Bendergost, ran around the end 
for the touchdown. A pass for 
the extra two was out of bounds.
Tech received the ball on their 
own six and returned it to the 
16, but then couldnt get moving 
as they lost one yard in the next 
three plays. Then Dave Gilcrests 
punt was blocked and Grove City 
took over on Techs six. On the 
first play quarterback Zweigler 
took it over the line and then 
sent halfback Russ Snead over 
for the extra two. The first quar
ter ended Grove City 14, Tech O.
Tech Drives
Tech drew first blood in the 
second quarter as they received 
the kickoff on their own 22 and 
marched 78 yards for the touch
down. The drive was highlighted 
by a 45 yard pass play from 
quarterback Tom Hubka to Dick 
Bell. Bell caught the ball in the 
clear, but was brought down 
from behind on the Tech seven 
yard line. Two plays later Hubka 
again passed to Bell, this time for 
the TD; the kick by Joe Cherney 
was good for the extra point.
Grove City received the kickoff 
and wasnt getting anywhere un
til Greg Magness slipped through 
a Tech blitz and ran for 50 yards. 
Then Zweigler ran the ball the 
remaining 30 yards for a touch
down only to have it called back 
for a penalty. Then however a 
35 yard pass play to Ken Wyman 
and a series of runs gave Grove 
City the touchdown for good. 
Snead carried the ball over for 
two more.
Larry Getto took the kickoff on 
the ten yard line and returned it 
19 yards, but on the next play a 
Hubka to BeU pass was inter ceptDave Hannan, and Grove 
took over on the Tech 40.
and again to Bell for the extra
two.
The half ended Grove City 30, 
Tech 15.
Tartans Dominate Play
In the third quarter Tech look
ed like a new ball team as they 
dominated the play on all sides. 
When Grove City was forced to 
punt from their own 15, the punt 
was blocked straight up and when 
it came down, Phil Beshenick took 
it over the goal for a Tech TD.
Grove City couldnt move the 
ball after the kickoff and was 
forced to punt on fourth down. 
Tech took over on the Grove City 
40, and in quick succession a 20- 
yard pass to Getto and a 20-yard 
pass to Bell put Tech across for 
another TD. Again Hubka passed 
to Getto and got the extra two.
Grove City made one first down 
after the kickoff but then the Tech 
defense toughened up again and 
the Grovers were forced to kick. 
The punt was blocked by a Tech 
rush, and the Tartans took over on 
the Grove City 32. Hubka com
pleted a pass to Bugel for 22 
yards, and then on the first play 
of the fourth quarter Zak ran the 
last ten yards for the TD. The 
score was then Tech 35 - Grove 
City 30 .
Grovers Regain Lead
However, Grove City then put 
their foot down and after one ex
change of downs, they drove 56 
yards for a touchdown to go back 
into the lead 36-35. Tech looked 
like it was still moving though 
when Ken Batorski carried 
around the end for seven and
