the Tartan
Volume 67Number 15Wednesday, January 10, 1968
Formal Rush Begins January 31; 
Offers Variety of Opportunities
I The theme of this years fraternity rush is What Do You 
Really Know About Fraterni
ties? The rush schedule for sec
ond semester has been planned 
with this question in mind. The 
first event of the semester will 
be a freshman assembly to be 
held in the Skibo Ballroom on 
Wednesday, Jan. 31, at 7:30 pm. 
Dean Earl Swank, Dean of StuW dents, and Prof. Richard Moore, 
associate head of the Math De
partment, will present their 
views and opinions of college 
fraternity life.
Their speeches will be followed 
by a question and answer period. 
The assembly is intended to pro
vide the freshmen with an oppor
tunity to hear about fraternity 
life from individuals who are in 
a position to speak objectively. 
The events of the following week 
and a half were selected and
Food Service 
Announces Changes
Beginning with the new se
mester there will be no more 
bussing of tables by Tartan 
Grille employees. This was the 
measure decided on by Student 
Food Management Council on 
Dec. 5, 1967. When school re
opens on Monday, Jan. 29, cus
tomers must clear their own 
tables of disposable trash, as 
there will be no one else to do
IThe other alternative men
tioned some weeks ago was a 
suggested raise in prices in the 
snack bar. According to Man
ager of Food Service Steve Buc
ko and Chairman Tony Law
rence, this will be necessary 
next year in order to keep at a 
break even level due to the rise 
in almost all raw food costs.
The Tartan urges all who pa
tronize the grill to throw their 
trash away in the disposable 
bags when they are through eat
ing.
The bake shop in the Skibo 
kitchen was remodeled begin
ning Tuesday, Dec. 19, 1987. The 
work was intended to be com
pleted shortly after vacation, but 
there have been some delays in 
obtaining materials necessary 
for the remodeling. Therefore, 
the bake shop may be closed 
slightly longer than planned. 
This means that the usual supj^ply of baked goods will not be 
available, and although some es
sentials are being prepared at 
Morewood, many yeast products 
are being bought elsewhere. 
This include rolls, doughnuts, 
etc. The remodeling, when com
pleted, will make available a 
wider and fresher variety of all 
d types of baked goods. Students 
on food contract are asked to 
be patient if some menus are 
slightly shifted due to this tem
porary incotnvenience.
scheduled to furnish each fresh
man with sufficient opportuni
ties to form an accurate opinion 
of fraternities. The schedule is 
as follows:
Wednesday, Jan. 31, Assembly, 
7:30 pm.
Thursday, Feb. 1, Dinner, 5-7:30 
pm.
Friday, Feb. 2, Smoker, 7-10 pm. 
Monday, Feb. 5, Dinner, 5-7:30 
pm.
Tuesday, Feb. 6, Lunch 11:30 
am to 1:30 pm.
Thursday, Feb. 8, Dinner, 5-7:30 
pm.
Friday, Feb. 9, Smoker, 7-9 pm. 
Saturday, Feb. 10, Party, 8:30 
pm to 1 am.
Monday, Feb. 12, Pledging, 5 pm.
Commuters and resident stu
dents are invited to all events. 
Dress will be formal for din
ners and informal for all other 
events.
PCS and Aid Forms 
Due By March 15
Applications for Financial Aid 
and renewal Parents Confiden
tial Statements (PCS) have been 
mailed to the homes of current 
aid recipients. Any students not 
receiving these forms and wish
ing to apply for financial aid 
should pick them up in the Fi
nancial Aid Office.
Students wishing considera
tion for scholarship must re
turn the completed application 
form prior to March 15, 1968. 
Any applications received after 
the deadline will be considered 
for loan only.
Supplements A and B of the 
PCS concerning income derived 
from a business or a farm will 
not accompany each PCS as in 
previous years. Students whose 
parents derive any part of their 
income from a business or farm 
are requested to obtain one of 
these supplements in the Finan
cial Aid Office and send it to 
them upon completion.
Forum Announces 
Luncheon Topics
Politics in Pittsburgh and the 
war in Vietnam are among top
ics scheduled for discussion on 
seven Thursdays between Jan.
11 and March 7 at the YMCAYWCAs Thursday Luncheon 
Forum series.
Audience participation in the 
discussion will follow brief talks 
by experts from C-MU and else
where.
Scheduled for the Forums are:
? After Vietnam, What? 
with Dr. Leonard A. Rapping, 
associate professor of econom
ics, Graduate School of Indus
trial Administration; Dr. Daniel 
P. Resnick, assistant professor 
of history; and Dr. Lincoln Wolfenstein, professor of physics,, 
Jan. 11.
? Revolutionary Develop
ment in Vietnam, Capt. Robert
B. Mulholland, assistant profes
sor of military science in C-MUs 
ROTC program, Feb. 1.
? ROTC and the University 
a Rationale, Col. William S. 
Crocker, professor of military 
science and head of the Univer
sitys ROTC program, Feb. 8.
? Model Cities and Urban 
Redevelopment in Pittsburgh, 
Earl Onque, associate executive 
director, Urban Redevelopment 
Authority, and coordinator, Mo
del Cities Program, Feb. 22.
? Human Dimensions of the 
Urban Crisis, Dr. Emil Trellis, 
director, Hill District Mental 
Health Team, and team mem
bers, Feb. 29.
? Political Decision Making 
in Pittsburgh, Professor Mor
ton Coleman, social work, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, and hu
man services coordinator, Ma
yors Office, March 7.
Thomas A. Huff, coordinator 
of Religious Affairs, is director 
of the Forum series.
Gerald Ford Speaks Out 
Against American Foreign Policy
Job Opportunities at Placement Bureau
The Bureau of Placements 
maintains binders of informa
tion about specific job openings 
for review by students. These 
binders are in the Career Infor
mation Library, and job infor
mation is posted in them on a 
day - to - day basis as received 
from employers. It is incumbent 
upon the student to review this 
information at his or her con
venience and to apply for the 
positions as indicated on the 
listings.
The Bureau also maintains a 
card file of information about 
students interested in summer 
employment for review by em
ployers who have summer job 
openings. Students who wish to 
be registered in this file may ob
tain a registration card from the 
Bureau receptionist.
A number of the employers 
who visit the campus to inter
view graduating students also
by John
Gerald Ford, Republican Rep
resentative from Michigan and 
Minority Leader in the House 
of Representtives, spoke on Jan. 
8th in the new Student Union 
building of Duquesne Univers
ity. He was the first in a series 
cf speakers sponsored by the 
Duquesne Forum.
Speaking for the Republican 
Party, in a speech entitled 
Campaign Issues in 1968, Mr. 
Ford criticized the Administra
tions foreign and domestic poli
cies. In the area of foreign poli
cy Mr. Ford spoke out against 
the conduct of the war in Viet
nam and the decreasing empha
sis that the Administration is 
placing on the Middle East and 
Europe. A long time critic of
interview students interested in 
summer employment. Informa
tion of their willingness to do so 
is listed on the yellow Employ
ment Interview notes postedin 
each department and outside of 
the Bureau of Placements. Stu
dents may sign up for summer 
job interviews beginning three 
working days prior to the com
panys recruitment visit on a 
space available basis.
Students with special prob
lems or questions concerning 
summer employment are invited 
to discuss them with a member 
of the Bureau staff.
In addition, a wealth of infor
mation about individual compa
nies, employment, career fields, 
et cetera, is available for review 
by studenst. This information 
can be very useful in identify
ing prospective summer employ
ers.
the military conduct of the war, 
Mr. Ford, said, the United States 
is fighting the way the enemy 
wants us to fight. The United 
States is not taking advantage 
of the superiority in manpower 
and equipment that is available. 
The Administrations domestic 
policies came under attack for 
the mismanagement of the econ
omy, the unsound fiscal policies 
and the lack of effective pro
grams for jobs, housing and 
education.
Being a member of the Re
publican Coordinating Commit
tee, Mr. Ford presen.ed what 
will undoubtedly be the Repub
lican platform in 1969. The 
challenge of Communism in 
Vietnam must be met said Mr. 
Ford. He hastened to add that 
this would not mean the com
mitment of more men and sup
plies to Vietnam but merely 
taking advantage of the super
iorly of American fighting 
forces. The superiority of the 
United States lies in its Air 
Force. Mr. Ford advocates us
ing it to bring an honorable 
and speedy end to the Vietnam 
conflict. Increased bombings of 
the North does not mean the 
increase of tonnage. Presently 
only a small per centage of 
all bombs droped in Vietnam 
are aimed at strategic areas in 
North Vietnam.
In the area of domestic poMera
licy, the Republican platform 
would end federal subsidy of ed
ucation and instead give a tax 
credit to parents financing their 
childrens education. To create 
more jobs, industry would be 
given a seven per cent tax cred
it if and when it creates a train
ing program for new jobs. Mr. 
Ford argues the merits of this 
program citing the tax credit 
given to industry when it buys 
new equipment and builds new 
factories. To stop the present 
inflationary trend, Mr. Ford, 
speaking for the party, urged 
the reduction in government 
spending and cited the Foreign 
Aid Bill as an example where 
the Republican minority in the 
House has attempted to limit 
the federal budget.
Looking forward to the Re
publican National Convention, 
Mr. Ford raised the possibility 
of having six to ten favorite 
sons candidates seeking the par
ty nomination together with 
fromt running candidates like 
Romney, Reagan, Percy and 
Rockerfeller. It will take sev
eral ballots but Mr. Ford pre
dicts that Richard Nixon will 
get the nomination. Of equal im
portance will be the race for 
seats in the House for the first 
time in a long period of time 
there is a chance that Congress 
might have to pick the next 
President, said Mr. Ford. He 
was referring to the candidacy 
of George Wallace, running on 
a conservative third party plat
form. His candidacy can pre
vent both the Republican and 
Democrtic parties from getting 
a majority of the votes. In such 
a case, the chodce of President 
is decided by the House with 
each state having one vote.
What started out as a cam
paign speech ended up as a de
bate of the Vietnam issue be
tween Mr. Ford and the student 
audience of about 300. The ques
tions reflected the students con
cern with the issue. Mr. Ford, 
contradicting himself by actual
ly defending Administration po
licies, avoided direct answers. 
He left his audience urging them 
to participate in politics to pre
serve the two party system.
Applications for the 
Phillipines Project are 
due by Jan. 25 at the 
Y office in skibo.
TARTAN
Staff Meeting
ednsa y,J. 4, u Wsrs
Present staff members and 
people interested in work
ing second semester.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANWednesday, January 10, 1968
EDITORIAL
109,6 0n8 Fd96
It is once again time for that period in our lives known as the 
"Between Christmas Vacation and Finals Week Fantasmagoria of 
Uselessness. And why is it that time of the year? Because the 
administration of C-arnegie-Mellon University has once again come 
uip with a calendar designed by the same astigmatic Mayan who 
worked on such triumphs as the Edsel, the Corvair, the New Yorks 
Worlds Fair, and most recently, the battle plans for the Egyptian 
Army.
We at the Tartan fully realize that it is difficult to devise a 
new and different calendar. We realize that it is difficult to imple
ment the calendar once it is devised. We realize that the admin
istration of the university has been trying to omr, up with a cal
endar for many years. We also, however, realize that they havent, 
and that they have used the same excuse each time.
That excuse is tihe difficult decision between the interests of 
the faculty and those of the student body. And we may maintain 
that this is an excuse for inaction, and that by remaining silent and 
not bringing the controversy to a point of decision, the adminis
tration is deferring, quite callously to the wishes of an unidentified 
group of faculty.
There is, by this time, very little chance that anybody is going 
to come up with a smashingly different plan from those already in 
front of the committee. (See Tartan of May 12, 1965; November 17, 
1965; and November 22, 1967.) Consequently, we feel that the al
ternative solutions are available to them.
The desired goals have already been stated several times, at 
least from the student point of view. The semester should end prior 
to Christmas vacation. Midterm examinations should be adminis
tered before Thanksgiving and Easter recesses. Our university 
should end the second semester significantly earlier than at pre
sent. All of this is subject to the necessity of providing approxi
mately 70 class days per semester.
Members of the administration have concurred with the above 
goals as not only being reasonable, but desirable as well.
Then why, at their meeting of December 11, 1967, did the Aca
demic Affairs Committee not achieve its goals of coming up with 
a new calendar? Some indication may be found in the minutes of 
that meeting.
Although a vote was taken on the administrations proposed 
and traditional calendars, additional suggested calendars were only 
distributed and briefly reviewed and discussed. There was no at
tempt, as we see it, to make the necessary alterations which would 
have enabled the university to have a sensible calendar for the 
1968-69 academic year.
Dr. Kifobee pointed out that the only way the semester could 
be completed before Christmas would be to (1) move the starting 
date to the end of August or sometime before Labor Day, which 
would be an inconvenience to the faculty. Or (2) lessen the num
ber of days in the first semester, which would be an academic de 
cdsion requiring faculty action.
Following that, Dr. Schatz stated that the faculty interests had 
to be considered very strongly. In the end, Drs. Schatz and Kibbee 
were consigned to Calendar Hell to work together using comments 
and suggestions that had been made, to present a calendar for 
future consideration. (Wasnt this the purpose of the present meet
ing, to decide on a viable calendar now. not later?)
The entire meeting was an insult to the intelligence and in
terests of every student on this campus. One wonders after readthe Tartan
LEN WAN ETI K 
Editor-m-Chief
Managing Editor ...................................... LARRY SIKON
Business Manager ............-................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor............................... SUZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editior .................................... ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor .................... Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ....................... Rich Steffens
Spots Editors ........................................... Jim Janke
Ralph Swoboda
Photography Editor ...................... Gordon Morris
Local Advertising Manager .... H. Karl Krummel 
National Advertising Manager .... Fredda Simon
Layout Editor ..................................... Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor ................. Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor .............................. Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager ........... Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers ............................ Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor .....................................E. W. Seley
Desk Staff: Linda Cameron, Susan Gordon, Carol Krueger 
Betsy Payne, Barbara Schneide/man.
News Staff: Ricky Borden, Jenifer Digby, Beverly Spiro, 
Rachel Schwartz.
Photo Staff: Morgan McCune, Bill Pence, David A. Rosen
berg, David L. Rosenberg, Jerry Siskind, John Tate, 
Joe Tyler.
Sports Staff: Larry Anderson, Jon Arnold, Don Baer, Ed 
Dolbow, Ronn Finnin, Harold Herre, Allan Letzt, Tony 
Rees, Jeff Ruben, George Smith, Mike Smolens.
Advertising Staff: Carroll Swarmer, John Knechtel, Danny 
Pickholtz.
Business Staff: Hilary Kurzweil, Jayne Levin, Carol Le Bow 
Laura Warren, Tom McGuire.
Prof. Romuald; To Give Second Talk of 
University and Society Lecture Series
Mass transit expert James P. 
Romualdi, director of C-MUs 
Transportation Research Insti
tute (TRL), will discuss The 
Social Investment in Transpor
tation Research at a free, pub
lic lecture Thursday, Jan. 11, 
at 8:30 pm in the Ballroom.
Members of the audience may 
talk with the speaker at a brief 
reception after the lecture.
Dr. Romualdis talk is the sec
ond in the series of lectures on 
the general theme of The Uni
versity and Society. C-MU es
tablished the public series in rec
ognition of a universitys obliga
tion to share knowledge with 
both the campus community and 
the citys cultural community.
Dr. Romualdi is professor of 
civil engineering at C-MU. He 
was named director of TRI upon 
its founding at the university 
in 1966. As director, he guides 
TRI in achieving the following 
goals:
? To advance education and 
contribute to scientific know
ledge in the transportation field.
? To perform transportation 
research for federal, state and 
local governments, philanthropic 
foundations, civic organizations, 
and corporations.
? To provide the framework 
for seminars, conferences, and 
symposia in areas related to ur
ban and inter-urban transporta
tion.
? To develop an educational 
program in transportation at the 
graduate level.
Dr. Romualdi has written nu
merous articles and papers on 
his fields of interest. In addition 
to transportation, he is concern
ed with areas of fracture me
chanic, applied mechanics, and 
structural engineering. Along 
with Dr. Thomas E. Stelson, di
rector of TRI, Dr. Romualdi tes
tified before Congress on amend
ments to President Johnsons 
Omnibus City Demonstrations, 
Metropolitan, and Urban Devel
opment.
ing the minutes, whether student feelings were seriously consi
dered. One also wonders if the committee gave heed to the previous 
debate and calendar proposals on the subject which occurred in 
1964, 1965, and 1966.
It appears that our administration is afraid to do what ad
ministrations are created to do-make decisions. They have per
sisted in hiding behind an extremely scanty excuse for making 
no decisions, and their words point to the fact that there has 
been, at least tacitly, a ranking of importance of faculty and stu
dent desires.
We suggest that the administration of Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity consider the calendar this month and that it produce, 
publicly, a decision which both solves the problems our present 
calendar does not, and, at the same time, indicates the relative 
importance of student desires versus faculty feelings. We hope 
that, this time around, the committee will consider the various 
calendars proposed equally, and will take comment from respon
sible students.
If the calendar issue is not settled (again), and if the admin
istration persists in dodging the issue, then we suggest that this 
issue be taken to its logical conclusion. Since we pay for less 
than half of our education (supposedly), and the Federal Govern
ment pays for most of the rest in grants, loan funds, and such, 
our calendar should be brought before the Senates Finance Sub
committee, or whatever nefarious group allots us our due. That 
way, the entire problem can be by-passed at our level.
But if the administration really is concerned about those 3,000 
or so undergraduates who dig deep for $1,950 (and up) every 
year, we feel that they should take on the burden of making the 
decision rather than passing it on to either the government or 
next year. If the administration feels that the faculty is unchange 
able and unassailable when it takes its stand opposing either be
ginning our first semester before Labor Day or cutting a few 
days per semester, we suggest that the personnel department be 
gin looking for professors at Michigan and Penn, where they are 
able to teachand well within the calendar constraints we desire.
Until that time, it appears that it will be difficult to believe 
that the administrations committees and spokesmen, or student 
representatives on the Academic Affairs and Calendar Commit
tees are sincere when they claim that they are working for the 
student good.
Academic Affairs Committee
The first portion of the meet
ing was devoted to further ex
ploration of a calendar for the 
1968-69 academic year. Results 
of the faculty-student vote on 
a calendar were announced as 
135 for the proposed and 105 
for the traditional. Student rep
resentatives on the Committee 
reported that their conversa
tions with fellow students indi
cated vehement opposition to 
the proposed calendar, and also 
indicated student desire for a 
calendar which would produce a 
completed semester (including 
final examinations) by Christ
mas vacation. There is a gener
al feeling among students that 
the calendar should be reviewed 
further for neither the proposed 
nor the traditional calendar is 
satisfactory as far as theyre 
concerned.
Dr. Kibbe pointed out that the 
only way a semester could be 
completed before Christmas 
would be to (1) move the start
ing date to the end of August 
or sometime before Labor Day, 
which would be an inconvenience to the faculty, or (2) lessen 
the number of days in the first 
semester, which would be an 
academic decision requiring fac
ulty action.
The question was raised as to 
whose interestfaculty or stu
dentshould be considered more 
strongly. Dr. Schatz stated that 
the faculty has to be considered 
very strongly.
Dr. Hexters motion that the 
proposed calendar be approved 
by the Academic Affairs Com
mittee had been tabled on Nov. 
13 in order that students and 
faculty could be informed that 
a calendar change was being 
considered and their comments 
could be solicited. Dr. Hexter re 
quested that a vote be taken on 
his motion, and the motion did 
not pass.
Dean Mullins moved that the 
Traditional Calendar, Plan II, be 
approved by the Academic Af
fairs Committee, and that work 
be continued to produce a re
vised calendar. Dean Steinberg 
seconded the motion, which 
passed. Using comments and sugReligion Course 
Offered 2nd Sem.
Major Crises in Religious 
Thought, a course in intellec
tual history, will be offered for 
the first time Spring Semester. 
Numbered C 352, it will deal 
with crises in Western religious 
traditions (Jewish, Christian, 
Gnostic, Muslim, Secular) over 
such ideas as God, man, will, 
society, salvation, and revela
tion. Each idea-conflict will be 
explored in its development from 
origins to contemporary think
ers, such as Tillich, Buber, Teil
hard, Heschel, and the Death 
of God movement. The course 
will meet Monday, Wednesday, 
and Friday, 10:30-11:20 am.
The instructor will be James 
Qualben of the history depart
ment, who is a candidate for 
the Ph.D. in intellectual history 
at the University of Chicago, 
and who is also a Protestant 
clergyman. Mr. Qualben says 
that about two weeks will be 
devoted to each crisis-topic, 
and that students will read one 
major author for each crisis 
rather than buying a textbook. 
Students will be responsible for 
presenting each authors views 
in class discussions. The course 
will focus on how the idea con
flicts dealt with have influenced 
and expressed their age and 
self-understanding of people.
gesitions that have been made, 
Drs. Schatz and Kibbee will 
work together to present a cal 
endar for future consideration 
Professor Richard Beaman, J 
Richard Hayes, Richard Moore 
Lincoln Wolfenstein, Neal Wood 
ruff, and Dean Steinberg, mem 
bers of the planning committee 
for the proposed College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences, 
were introduced, and the re
mainder of the meeting was de
voted to a discussion of their 
report, Building from Strength: 
a New College. Dr. Schatz sug
gested that because of time lim
itation, comments should be fo
cused on the concepts and ob
jectives of the new college.
Dean Steinberg opened the 
discussion by stating that there 
has been a lot of complaint 
about a lack of relevance in 
what is being taught. He also 
said that the committee had 
tried to look at how a liberal 
arts college could meet the needs 
of 17 and 18 year old college 
students and that the commit
tee felt it was important for 
freshmen and sophomores to be 
cognizant of a difference be
tween their high school and col
lege educational experiences.
Members of the Academic Af
fairs Committee then discussed 
the merits and the weaknesses 
of the planning committees re
port. The document was viewed 
with varying degrees of opti
mism and pessimism.
At the conclusion of the dis
cussion period several nextstep suggestions were made: 
(1) the document should be re 
vised to show more clearly how 
the objectives are to accomplish
ed; (2) the general education 
program should be presented in 
more detail so it can be incor
porated into departmental de 
sign; (3) courses should be de 
veloped with live students and 
live faculty; (4) faculty and stu
dents from other liberal arts 
colleges should be invited to 
read the document, compare it 
with what theyre getting, and 
offer comments.
It was emphasized that the 
new college is still very much 
in the embryonic stages and 
that the comments whioh have 
been received so far will be ex
tremely helpful to the planning 
committee.
The meeting adjourned at 5:30 
pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 10, 1968THE TARTANPage 3
Senate Approves 68-69 Activities Budget, NSA Sponsors
Awaits Administrative Approval
The Student Senate Finance Committee has released the 1968- 
69 Student Activities Budget. As a result of preliminary hearings 
held with student organizations by the Finance Committee, this 
finalized budget was submitted to Student Senate by Committee 
Chairman Joseph Duckworth lor approval. The budget was pass
ed without changes and now awaits approval by the administra
tion.
The 1968-69 Student Activities Budget has prepared to attain 
two basic goals:
1) To make it financially possible for every student activity 
of Oamegie-Mellon University to become a first-class organization 
an activity of which the university can be proud.
2) To make every activity operate as efficiently as possible.
The first of these goals is illustrated by the fact that WRCFs 
appropriation was almost doubled in order to allow the station 
to purchase equipment long needed to improve programming and 
to modernize their facilities. In no case were cuts made that would 
compromise the quality of an organization but rather to encour
age the activity to operate more efficiently.
An excellent example of this philosophy is the Carnegie Tech
nical. The Technical requested a sum of $4,900 which was an in
crease from the $4,250 granted to them for 1967-68. The increase 
was due mainly to an increase in printing costs, for The Techni
cal wished to increase its number of pages per issue by three. 
This increase would serve to make a better publication, and 
there was no doubt that their total income would have increased. 
Jt was noted, however, that their income from sales could be 
increased by approximately 1,000 per cent. They were then asked 
to investigate different methods of distribution in order to in
crease their income from sales and, at the same time, to cut $500 
from their budget in order to compensate for increased sales.
Another major change in this years budget is that the Pat
terns, literary magazine, will be available for free distribution to 
the Carnegie-Mellon student body. This is the policy of many col
leges, including Chatham and Duquesne for their literary maga
zines. Since their sales had never covered more than 50 per cent 
of their printing costs, it was felt that free distribution would 
be the most effective way of making the publication available to 
everyone. It will be printed for an initial run of $1,500 copies, 
and the plates will be held by the printer for an additional run 
at a nominal cost if necessary.
Another point of note is that the Tartan allocation has been 
cut by $1,000. This is not a cut from the 1968-69 budget as such 
but rather a reduction of the balance which the Tartan has ac
cumulated over the past few years.
More adjustments such as these can be expected in the future 
as Student Government assumes a more active role in the super 
vision of the operation of every activity.
Proposed 1968-69 Student Activities Budget:
Activity Requested Granted
Tartan .........................................$ 7,790 $ 6,790
Thistle .......................................... 4,800 4,000
Wednsaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa y,Jyu r,u1u
Technical....................................... 4,900 4,400
Patterns..................................................... 2,000 2,000
Cameron Choir .......................... 2,025 2,025
Scotch n Soda.......................................... 1,000 1,000
W3NKIRadio Club............................... 490 410
International Club ................................... 490 270
American Field Service............. 80 ---
Student Government .................. 1,000 1,000
Ceilidh ......................................... 500 ---
Karate Club............................................... 225 225
Ski Club ..................................... 450 ---
Jazz Band ................................................. 500 500
TOTALS ................................$32,725 $29,125
Received
1967-68
$ 8,830 
2,225 
3,580 
4,250 
650 
2,335 
650 
495 
35 
100 
745
Zurich Ski Trip
The National Student Associa
tion is sponsoring an interses
sion ski trip to Switzerland, 
with an optional Davos ski pack
age. The cost of the round trip 
charter flight is $174. The op
tional Davos package is $75, and 
includes transfer from Zurich 
Airport to Davos, seven nights 
accommodations in two and 
three bedded rooms in comfort
able economy class hotels, with 
breakfast and dinner included, 
and seven days of ski lift tickets.
The flight departs from New 
York JFK Airport, Jan. 22, pm, 
and arrives in Zurich, Jan. 23, 
am. The return flight departs 
from Zurich Jan. 30, pm, and 
arrives at New York JFK Jan. 
30, pm.
For application forms, write 
USNSA, 265 Madison Ave., N.Y., 
N. Y. 10016.
The PHOTO's 
for the article 
"Ten Prominent Women 
Discuss the Role of the 
Public/Private Women" 
in the 
December 13th 
Issue of the TARTAN 
were taken by Pam Bartel.
Plan for the Senior 
Banquet Feb. 7, 1968.
$28,875
6 million mentally 
retarded have 
enough problems 
without your 
adding to them.
Wedn seay,J u,er1r0s 
91s68F oe sea,9J0mn
lRhs r01BJ BJg
i 3638yo 3e 18soh68F;O
fh1oy9 ohJ u,er0JB;
Do something. Write for a free booklet 
that will tell you how you can help.
The Presidents Committee 
on Mental Retardation 
Washington. D. C. 20201
Name.
Address . 
City____
StateZip Code_
Published as a public service in cooperation 
with The Advertising Council.
lFRhBFg ig3;gOHERES HOPING FOR 68
rs fe8s V1d,J8tJ
Heres hoping that Spring Carnival is better this year than 
last. . . . Heres hoping that are more films done as well as Bon
nie and Clyde. . . . Heres hoping that LBJ does something about 
Vietnam or loses his job. . . . Heres hoping that mare actors have 
the courage to ride an unsure horse about something they believe 
in such as Sandy Dennis in Daphne in Cottage D. . . . Heres hop
ing that there are fewer boring flicks such as Far from the Mad
ding Crowd. . . . Heres hoping that people will begin attending, 
in droves, the Experimental Film Groups Chaplin Festival 
which is one of the best events on this campus and which will 
be discontinued if there is continued shamelessly poor attendance. 
Heres hoping that the Cashiers Office will discover, possibly 
through great thought and contemplation, the road to efficiency.
. . . Heres hoping that there are more recordings like the great 
Ray Charles single Yesterday. . . . Heres hoping that there 
are less recordings like the insipid An Open Letter to a Teen
age Son. .. . Here's hoping that there are more replies to abomina
tions like that of William Zinssers in Life, Jan. 5, 1968. . . . Heres 
hoping that folks soon realize what a pig sty they are creating
for themselves by not clearing their table in the grill.........Heres
hoping that Nubby doesnt change a bit. . . . Heres hoping that 
Rjonald< Reagen does. . . . Heres hoping that there will be more 
bakeries like Prantls in Shadyside. . . . Heres hoping that there 
are more fabulous performances by relative newcomers like Reni 
Santoni, who is rapidly carving out a place for himself as a great 
screen comedian, in Enter Laughing; Dustin Hoffmans astound
ing portrayal of Benjamin in The Graduate; Michael Sarrazin in 
The Flim Flam Man; Robert Blakes unforgetable portrayal of 
Perry Smith in In Cold Blood. . . . Heres hoping there are less 
performances like Katherine Houghtons near embarrassing one 
in Guess Whos Coming to Dinner. . . . Heres hoping there is more 
magnificent photography in the tradition of Nicholas Roegs for 
Far from the Madding Crowd; Gerry Turpins for The Whisperers. 
. . . Heres hoping that something drastic happens to General 
Hensheylike maybe being locked up for senility.'. . . Heres 
hoping there are more Mike Leander film scores such as the ex
citing one he composed for Privilege. . . . Heres hoping Leslie 
Bricuss gets back on the track and ceases to write undistinguish
ed nonsense like the score to Doctor Doolittle. . . . Heres hoping 
that Marvin Kalb verifies this columnists hope that he will be 
the next Edward R. Murrow. . . . Heres hoping we have at least 
one more good ol snowfall. . . . Heres hoping that full course 
dinners will soon be served at the Computer Center. . . . Here's 
hoping that Alan Wichner. . . . Heres hoping that the mess at 
the Penn-Sheraton is settled. . . . Heres hoping that Timothy Bay 
will once again take pen in hand and write as he is capable of 
instead of last issues drivel and above all will remember that 
When all else tails it is easy to be punitive.
And thats the Campus Library.*
???fr******************************************** 
; Between Classes or at Study Break ;! Volumme6oV
BfgF RB egi3g VB3 
tp hBIie l 1lV
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . . .
^ ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
I
Campus l7Nb7 Heodquorter*
FOR AU. YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS T 
O, RENT AND REPAfR RVf9Oi;R9
CAMERA EXCHANGE I
3711 FORBES AVENUE
Phone: 683-2181 *
e9d8,n9 1-6omdn9 mn m09 ;9,rp I
APPRENTICE CONTACT
LENS LAB TECHNICIAN
Part time, temporary, immediate opening . . 
will train.
QUALIFICATIONS
Intelligent 
Good command of English 
Ability to meet people 
Manual dexterity 
Math and physics helpful
HOURS
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday2:00 - 5:30 p.m. 
Tuesday2:00 - 8:00 p.m.
Saturday8:30 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.
SALARY 
$1.50$3.00 an hour 
..CALL..
Pennsylvania Vision Institute  621-8421

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANWednesday, January 10, 1968
*9x12 RUGWitk 9x12 or Larger $29 39 49 ,69
I-e9a 12ii2i, IlilSf, 12*1,, 
IMm, Wi CriM, ioyowty
ChasesN
D9Y, WK0o9 9m Jdw Adb6
5432SHADYSIDEWALNUTST
10 AM to 9 PM 
Sat. till 5 PM,
*21-1025
CHATHAM
AT CHATHAM CENTER 261-1001
NOW SHOWING
AUDREYHEPBURN
ALANARKIN
RICHARDCRENNA
WAIT UNTIL
Also-Starring EFREMZIMBALIST, JR.
On Campus
?w 9Y, 0d9YmA m ci0KKw imdn8 9Y, yK0ba ?mw6q.a 
c1mJ-, v-KK-6aS ,9osk
with
MaxShuIman
1968: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
Are you still writing1967 on your papers and letters? 
Ill bet you are, you scamp! But I am not one to be harsh 
with those who forgot we are in a new year, for I myself 
have long been guilty of the same lapse. In fact, in my 
senior year at college, I wrote 1873 on my papers until 
nearly November of 1874! (It turned out, incidentally, 
not to be such a serious error because, as we all know, 1874 
was later repealed by President Chester A. Arthur in a fit 
of pique over the Black Tom Explosion. And, as we all 
know, Mr. Arthur later came to regret his hasty action. 
Who does not recall that famous meeting between Mr. 
Arthur and Louis Napoleon when Mr. Arthur said, Lou, 
I wish I hadnt of repealed 1874. Whereupon the French 
emperor made his immortal rejoinder, cR-W- 7d, nmd6 ,9 
9wK,A 9dSs Well sir, they had many a good laugh about that, 
as you can imagine.)
But I digress. How can we remember to write 1968 on 
our papers and letters? Well sir, the best way is to find 
something memorable about 1968, something unique to fix 
it firmly in your mind. Happily, this is very simple be
cause, as we all know, 1968 is the first year in history that 
is divisible by 2, by 5, and by 7. Take a pencil and try it: 
1968 divided by 2 is 984; 1968 divided by 5 is 393%; 1968 
divided by 7 is 281^. This mathematical curiosity will not 
occur again until the year 2079, but we will all be so busy 
then celebrating the Chester A. Arthur bi-centenerary 
that we will scarcely have time to be writing papers and 
letters and like that.
Another clever little trick to fix the year 1968 in your 
mind is to remember that 1968 spelled backwards is 8691. 
Year spelled backwards is raey. Personna spelled 
backwards is Annosrep. I mention Personna because I 
am paid to write this column by the makers of Personna 
Super Stainless Steel Blades, and they are inclined to 
withhold my check if I omit to mention their product.
Not, mind you, that it is any chore for me to sing the 
praises of Personna, for it is a seemly blade that shaves 
you cleanly, a gleaming blade that leaves you beaming, a 
trouble-free blade that leaves you stubble-free, a match
less blade that leaves you scratchless. If you are tired of 
facial slump, if you are fed up with jowl blight, try 
Personna today... available both in double-edge style and 
Injector style. And if I seem a bit excessive in my admira
tion for Personna, I ask you to remember that to me 
Personna is more than a razor blade; it is also an employer.
But I digress. We were speaking of the memorable as
pects of 1968 and high among them, of course, is the fact 
that in 1968 the entire House of Representatives stands 
for election. There will, no doubt, be many lively and inter
esting contests, but none, Ill wager, quite so lively and 
interesting as the one in my own district where the lead
ing candidate is none other than Chester A. Arthur!
Mr. Arthur, incidentally, is not the first ex-president to 
come out of retirement and run for the House of Repre
sentatives. John Quincy Adams was the first. Mr. Adams 
also holds another distinction: he was the first son of a 
president ever to serve as president. It is true that Martin 
Van Burens son, Walter Blinky Van Buren, was at one 
time offered the nomination for the presidency, but he, 
alas, had already accepted a bid to become Mad Ludwig 
of Bavaria. James K. Polks son, on the other hand, be
came Salmon P. Chase. Millard Fillmores son went into 
aluminum siding. This later became known as the Mis
souri Compromise.
* * *  1968, Max Shulraan
We dnssay,n, a, Jeur10,0 09s0, 610,0 ns ea 8aFo,aFns0 
rn61 myJ9n6u ne l0,saeeJ a, ne l0,saeeJRs oJ,6e0, ne 
s1JhneB o90Jsy,0 g iy,FJ3;1Jh0O iy,FJ3;1Jh0 8aF0s 
6a uay ne ,0By9J, a, F0e61a9O f,u n6O Vayt99 pneI n6 saJTs 
,neBs J,ayeI Jeu a610, 9J610,O
After graduation,
what?
Will you begin your career as an 
engineer or scientist or return to 
school for an advanced degree?
toucan
do both
atNOL
flmWwi
If you are an engineer in the top third of your class or a scientist in the top quarter 
of your class, NOL offers you the opportunity to begin your career in one of the world's 
great laboratories and, at the same time, go ahead with your plans for graduate study.
NOL is a laboratory in the true meaning of the word, and
one of the largest and best equipped laboratories in the 
world It is the nation's leading R&D establishment for 
Anti Submarine Warfare (ASW), the Navy's principal high 
speed aeroballistics activity, and a leader in the develop 
ment of new air and surface weapons The spectrum of 
research at NOL ranges from nuclear effects to acoustics 
to explosives and materials At NOL, weapons development 
is carried through from inception to design to prototype 
test and development. Since 1950, NOL has completed 209 
new weapons and devices such as SUBROC, nuclear depth 
bombs, mines, projectile fuzes, underwater detection sys
tems. and components and design data for POLARIS. 
TARTAR, TALOS, TERRIER, ATLAS and TITAN missiles A 
civilian staff of over 3,000 people includes more than 1,000 
professional engineers and scientistsexperts with na 
tional and international reputations. Extensive and unique 
facilities embrace wind tunnels operating to Mach 17, 
hypervelocity ballistic ranges, the world's most exceptional 
hydroballistic facility, shock tunnels. 300g centrifuge 
multi million dollar experimental facilities
Here is your opportunity. Each year. NOL interviews out 
standing engineering and science graduating students 
Selects the handful that seems to be really creative Takes 
them to its beautiful 875-acre "campus" (the front yard 
is a golf course) in the rolling hills of Maryland near the 
Nation's Capital Puts them through an optional one year 
professional development course with rotational assign 
ments to various areas within the Laboratory to prepare 
them for permanent assignments
From the very beginning, new staff members have an oppor
tunity to contribute directly to significant projects ... to 
be part of an organization where groups are small and 
emphasis is on the individual.
NOL offers you a graduate study program that is one of 
the largest and most productive programs in the country. 
Each year members of our professional staff receive M S.'s 
or Ph.D.'s through this program NOL has a significant ad 
vantage in its proximity to the University of Maryland Many 
NOL staff members hold permanent part time positions on 
the Maryland faculty, and graduate level courses are taught 
at NOL every semester Maryland also offers many courses 
on its own campusonly minutes awayat times which 
are convenient to and keyed to the special requirements 
of NOL
sile systems, instrumentation for weapons evaluation and 
aeroballistics research, and performance of new concept 
feasibility experiments.
Chemical Engineers and Chemistsfor research and devel
opment pertaining to high energy propellants and explo
sives; high polymers; molecular and crystal structures; 
electrochemistry; high-temperature, high pressure chemical 
equilibrium studies, and the thermodynamics of highenergy reactions.
Engineering Physicists and Physiciststheoretical and ex
perimental research in a wide range of areas including 
signal processing, infrared radiation, acoustics, magnetic 
and semi-conductive materials, and detonation physics; 
plus weapon systems development and studies.
NOL ACADEMIC STUDY PROGRAMS
PROGRAMCOMPETITIONADMITTANCESUPPORT
Part-time 
Graduate Study
Open to all
qualified
employees
Approval by 
line management.
Refund of tuition and fees if 
course grade is "B" or 
better. approx. V2 time plus 
travel time for attendance
Graduate
Work-Study
Recent college graduates 
in certain engineering & 
scientific fields.
Selected by Personnel 
Officer admission to 
local graduate school
for M S.
Full salary, tuition, books & 
fees .2 days each week 
devoted to study and classes 
for 2 years maximum
Intermediate
Graduate
Study
Recent college graduates 
in certain engineering & 
scientific fields.
Selected by Personnel 
Officer admission to 
graduate school .. an 
honors program
Full tuition, books, fees, 
travel per diem & GS 7 
salary .. (over J3800).
2 semesters full time
Advanced
Graduate
Study
Scientists & 
Engineers, grade 
GS 11 and above
Selected by NOL
Training
Committee
Full tuition, books, 
fees, travel, per 
diem.'i full salary 
for 2 semesters
NOL NEEDS:
Aerospace Engineers or Hydrodynamicists design studies 
of high speed high performance re-entry systems, basic 
problems in theoretical and experimental aerothermody 
namics. aeroballistics and hydroballistics; and aerodynamic 
design and development of hypervelocity wind tunnels and 
ballistic ranges
Mechanical Engineersconceptual design and development 
of warhead salmg arming and target detecting devices for 
tactical and strategic missiles, underwater weapons, vehicle 
structures, and mechanical or electromechanical time and 
motion sensing mechanisms
Electronic Engineersdesign, development and evaluation 
of underwater communications and detection systems, 
weapons guidance systems, influence fuzing, air borne mis
An NOL representative will be on campus . . .
FEBRUARY 8, 1968
Contact your Placement Office for interview.
Summer Professional Employment for outstanding 
graduate students and graduating seniors
19 69 7-8-D 
osm7-7et 
D-hos-iosn
WMITI OAK. MARYLAND
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
Trottnow Insurance Agency
281-6619- Phones - 281-9000

---------------------------------------------------

Iftylish tether
T6 -amm9 3e 6o
Por men who want to be where the 
action is. Very schussy. Very mas*iuline. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION.
2.50, $4.00, $8.50. From the com
plete array of ENGLISH LEATHER 
men's toiletries.
S&S JEEP
PITTSBURGH
SUNBEAMSIMCA DEALER 
731-7000 
21 3 PENN AVE. 
WllKINSBURG
STAMP IT!
IT'S THE RfcOE 
REGULAR 
MODEL
ANY SW 
3 LINE TEXT 
Tht fin.it INDESTRUCTIBLE METAL 
POCKET RUBBER STAMP. Vi" i 2".
Send check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No posta ire or handling charges. Add 
skies tax.
Prompt shipmont. Satisfaction Guaranteed 
igt .oWW eo9
P. 0. Box 18623 Lenox Sqo* 
ATLANTA, GA., 303*6
Volum e6 7oNbr
Mod Eye Wear
Frame and Lons Replacement Prescription Filled Contact Lens Confer STUDENT RATESRoom 505 
Medical Arts BMg. 
3700 Fifth Avonuo
SUNBEAM
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
AS'd 09669
WDf YWDKwA
bfhJ m68J9o h69oe,6t10 8eJ0 oh1o h19 teBJ Bs d1s ; ; 
18 1B1?68F0s 9attJ99ma0 ,Jt,J1o6e8 em ohJ 31, 183 
r,ao10 de,03 em ohJ odJ0moh tJ8oa,s;O
New York Times
c;q. J1th dhJ,JJ, 
-10018o68J -ee9 1,J 9e03;
f fCLEARNL CLEARANCE SALE
$5.99Wool Sleeveless Sweaters .................................$2.00
$12.99Wool Plaid SlacksBobbie Brooks .................$5.00
$8.99Bobbie Brooks Sweaters
Cardigans and Slipovers.........................$5.00
Up to $19.99Dresses ....................................................$5.00
$5.99Blouses - Cottons - Jerseys ..................................$2.00
$7.99Corduroy and Denim Hipsters...........................$3.9^
> All Leather and Suede Coats ....................1/3 and 1/2 Off
HOURS10 to 6, Mon., Tues., Wed.10 to 8, Thurs., Fri., Sat.
fCLEARNL S,LC,fL, INC.
l06n60s -,O dnss JeI aF0es DooJ,09 JeI D880ssa,n0s 
4619 CENTRE AVENUE
(near Craig St.across from Giant Eagle)
Wednesday, January 10, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 5
fAYRDvVS iT
-TkJoYn K; em 7106me,861n 
joined -Joh0JhJBy9 c:E. Veeu 7ea,9J;
fhJ me,BJ, we03J8 
w0eJ B6330JdJ6Fho th1Bu d19 1996F8J3 oe ea, r,183P8Jd qMPB6006e8 
F10186?68F 068J 1o 
j68e0J je68on 710;n dhJ,J 
: hes 8ed 19969o18o 
BJo100a,F6t10 9auJ,69e,; CBe8F feBy9 B18s 
,J9ue896r606o6J9G ,Ju,J9J8o68F -Joh0JhJB 
in oJth86t10 3J1068F9 
with ta9oeBJ,9;
8FoFml8loR
8hoBlBg
71,JJ, u,e9uJto9 1,J 
better oh18 JJ, 1o?
 -Joh0JhJB ToJJ0; RJ 8JJ3 
e8PohJPr100 J8F68JJ,68Fn 
oJth86t10n 183 06rJ,10 1,o9 F,13a1oJ9 me, ohJ c:E5 
Loop 7ea,9J; j6t au 1 
copy em ea, ree0Jo 1o sea, 
j01tJBJ8o emm6tJ;
ln g7d0K BWWmA9dn-9w 
grWKmw,A -n 9Y, fK0n6 mA 
fAmbA,66 fAmbA0r
BETHLEHEM
Now in paperback 
ZO OLDENBOURG
the greatest living writer 
on the Middle Ages
fAY7vKTCSYT
liBBJ89J0s 68oJ,J9o68Fn 
ma00 em o,JBJ83ea9 
o10J9 em hJ,e69Bn 
me00sn u0a83J, 
183 901aFhoJ,;;; 
1 r,600618o 9a,Js 
em ohJ kJ36J10 de,03;O
New York Times
A PRODUCT Of MEM COMPANY. INC., NORTMVAIE. N. ) 07W7
THE SPREAD-EAGLE OF TECHNOLOGY 
AT GRUMMAN
I.?THP D-GO F??H- YG GUYH- PM.cH
Grumman has special interest for the graduating engineer and scientist seeking the widest spread of technology for his 
skills. At Grumman, engineers are involved in deep ocean technology...engineers see their advanced aircraft designs 
proven daily in the air over Vietnam, and soon. ..in outer space, the Grumman LM (Lunar Module) will land the astro
nauts on the lunar surface. Grumman, situated in Bethpage, L.I. (30 miles from N.Y.C.), is in the cultural center of 
activity. Universities are close at hand for those who wish to continue their studies. C.C.N.Y., Manhattan College, New 
York University, Pratt Institute, Columbia University, State University at Stony Brook, Polytechnic Institute of Brook
lyn, Hofstra University and Adelphi College are all within easy distance. The surroundings are not hard to take. Five 
beautiful public golf courses are in Bethpagetwo minutes from the plant. White sand beaches stretch for miles along 
the Atlantic (12 minutes drive). The famed sailing reaches of Long Island Sound are only eleven miles away. 
The informal atmosphere is a Grumman tradition, matched by an equally hard-nosed one of turning out some of the 
free worlds highest performance aircraft systems and space vehicles.To name a few ...
LMLunar Module
to land the astronauts 
on the lunar surface
EA-6A IntruderAll-weather, tactical, 
electronic weapon system
PX154-Man Deep 
Submersible Vessel to 
conduct undersea experiments
Here then is the opportunity for graduating engineers. AEs, CEs, EEs, MEs, lEs, Physic majors and Chemical Engineering 
majors... to take their place in the continuum of technology that is Grumman. Grumman representatives will be
ON CAMPUS JANUARY 11
To obtain Grumman literature and arrange an interview, contact your placement office.
PG (H)57-ton 
Hydrofoil Seacraft
If an interview is not convenient at this 
time, send comprehensive resume 
to: Mr. Frank A. Hurley,
Administrator of College Relations, 
Engineering Employment, Dept. GR-251
GRUMMAN
AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION 
Bethpage  Long Island  New York, 11714 
ln ,7d0K mWWmA9dn-9w ,rWKmw,A Eyk

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAK-Wednesday, January 10, 1968
"A TAUT FILM 
IN THE RIFIFI 
TRADITION!
PhmKKwMmm8 i,WmA,
JOSEPH ELEVINE
STANLEY BAKER 
MMLDEELEYPwductw
n 196696 earn S
WDR TADRiWw 2
Mac Bird!
on W.R.C.T.
RADIO 900
On Feb. 4th at 2:30, HOUSE CURTAIN
Host Al Brady will present Part I of the entire dialogue 
recording of MacBird now playing off Broadway. Part II 
will be presented the following week, February 11th. 
The remainder of the second semester looks like this:
Feb. 18THREEPENNY OPERA 
Feb. 25WEST SIDE STORY 
Mar. 3HAPPIEST MILLIONAIR 
Mar. 10MAN OF LaMONICA 
Mar. 17CAMELOT 
Mar. 24-STOP THE WORLD
Mar. 31-ROAR OF THE GREASEPAINT 
Apr. 7SUBWAYS ARE FOR SLEEPING 
Apr. 14Easter Break 
Apr. 21HELLO DOLLY 
Apr. 28-PAL JOEY 
May 5To be announced.
May 12-1 CAN GET IT FOR YOU WHOLESALE 
(This Schedule May Be Changed Without Notice)
SO BE LISTENING EVERY SUNDAY! 
HOUSE CURTAIN with AL BRADY
DO YOU HAVE A GOOD JOB LINED UP?...
Dont commit yourself to any company before you 
talk with FMC Corporation, 67th among Americas 
leading companies, No. 1 In advantages to you!
Chances are you will talk with several personnel men from several companies. Dont 
be hasty. Make sure that you get the facts from FMC Corporation  because it is 
important to start your career with a company that offers you growth in any direc
tion your budding career may take you. FMC Corporation has the diversity you will 
need later  it is dynamic, young in attitude, global in operation. It offers you IM
MEDIATE BENEFITS as well as long-range opportunities. FMC produces practi
cally everything from solid fuels for space ships to garden seeds; from huge personnel 
carriers for combat to near riding tractors for gardening; 125 plants in 33 states and 
12 foreign countries. Whatever your interests are now, wherever you want to go in the 
future  even if you change your mind  youll find tremendous opportunity in FMC 
Corporation. Find out about it now!
ITS NOT TOO EARLY TO FIND OUT ABOUT OPPORTUNITIES
FOR YOU AT FMC!
Lea d600 9o1,o sea, t1,JJ, d6oh ohJ m1BJ3 D,3818tJ S6696e8 em xk7n 1 6o10n 68oJ,J9o68Fn Jzu18368F 
m1t606os 0et1oJ3 68 ohJ k1F6t ^100Js em 7h1,0J9oe8n RJ9o ^6,F6861; fhJ t6os 69 BJo,eue06o18 68 oheaFho 
183 1to6e8n rao sea d600 rJ e80s 1 mJd B68aoJ9 1d1s m,eB d603 tea8o,sn F,J1o ha8o68F 183 m69h68F; io 
69 18 JztJ00J8o u01tJ oe de, 183 oe 06J;
RJ 1,J 9JJ68F (a106m6J3 -;T; 183 w,13a1oJ Toa3J8o9 19 ) INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS ) MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERS  METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS  INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT MAJORS  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY 
 BUSINESS MANAGEMENT (ACCOUNTING MAJORS)  M ATHEM ATI CS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS ANALYSTS
Send for FREE Brochure / Clip out and mail today
CLIP OUT AND MAIL
Dept..CR-9TO: Mr. Ron Evans, Personnel Division 
FMC CORPORATION 
ORDNANCE DIVISION
P.O. Box 8307  South Charleston, W. Va. 25303
Dear Mr. Evans: Please send me free brochure outlining 
career opportunities at your FMC Division.
Name:_________________________________________________________
Address:.
MUST BE U. S. CITIZEN - 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/FI understand that if Im interested in talking to a Company Rep 
resentative, A Campus Interview will be arranged.
tI
II
III
I
I
I
I
I
I
III
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
%
%
KEN PLATT
-Tn k1ohJB1o6t9njJ88 To1oJn Ue68J3 ohJ c:E? -Joh0JhJB Veeu 
7ea,9J; Wed hJy9 1 teBuaoJ, 9uJt61069o me, ohJ 
Cttea8o68F SJu1,oBJ8o; J8 a9J9 h69 B1ohJB1o6t10 8ed0J3FJ oeP u,eF,1B 
m6818t610n J8F68JJ,68Fn 183 
B1ohJB1o6t10 u,er0JB9; J8 69 ua,9a68F 18 1318tJ3 3JF,JJ a83J, 
-Joh0JhJBy9 Y3at1o6e810 C9969o18tJ j,eF,1B;
kCWCwYkYWf
kiWSYSg
71,JJ, u,e9uJto9 1,J rJooJ, oh18 JJ, 1o 
-Joh0JhJB ToJJ0; RJ 8JJ3 
e8PohJPr100 J8F68JJ,68Fn oJth86t10n 183 06rJ,10 1,o9 
F,13a1oJ9 me, ohJ c:E5 Veeu 7ea,9J; j6t au 1 
teus em ea, ree0Jo 1o sea, 
u01tJBJ8o emm6tJ;
ln g7d0K BWWmA9dn-9w 
grWKmw,A -n 9Y, fK0n6 mA 
fAmbA,66 fAmbA0r
BETHLEHEM 
STEEL
i
%
I
*
f--1SETHIpMSTt.
i
i
I
*
Despite 
fiendish torture 
dynamic BiC Duo 
writes first time, 
every time!
bics rugged pair of 
stick pens wins again 
in unending war 
against ball-point 
skip, clog and smear.
Despite horrible 
punishment by mad 
scientists, uic still 
writes first time, every 
time. And no wonder. 
bics Dyamite Ball 
is the hardest metal 
made, encased in a 
solid brass nose cone. 
Will not skip, clog 
or smear no matter 
what devilish abuse 
is devised for them 
by sadistic students. 
Get the dynamic 
me Duo at your 
campus store now.
I
f
I
vge
WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP. 
MILFORD. CONN.

*
6iC Fine Point 25C

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 10, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 7
Original 
Hot Dog Shoppe
Bj,A uCaCCCaCCC hm9 1mb6 emK8
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To All Dorms from 9 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 
-n-rdr BA8,A GtsCC 
3901 FORBES AVE.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
>National Lead
will be
ON CAMPUS
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1968
Whether your interest is in Research 
and Development, Technical Production, 
Industrial Sales,Technical Service, or 
Accounting, it will pay you to talk with 
the man from National Lead.
With over 200 product lines made by 
50 different divisions, affiliates and sub
sidiaries, National Lead is one of the 
worlds most diversified organizations.
If you are career-minded we may have 
the spot for you. Remember...
National Lead Company
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1968
An Equal Opportunity Employer
5 ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in
CHEMICAL, 
MECHANICAL, 
ELECTRICAL, 
and INDUSTRIAL 
ENGINEERING
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
xJr,a1,s 5n c:E5
Appointments should be 
made in advance through 
your College Placement 
Office.
-nme CORPORATION 
An equal opportunity employer
Putting Ideas to Work in 
Machinery * Chemical* * Dfont * Fiber & Films
At Sun Oil Company you can have your cake...
Sun Oil Company is a "glamour" 
company. (That surprise you?)
At Sun you work on projects as far 
out as anyones, in areas ranging 
from petrochemistry to internal man
agement consulting, from operations 
research to advanced engineering.
Sun Oil Company is also a very, very stable com
pany, enjoying solid sales and substantial growth 
year after year after year. At Sun when a glam
our project is completed, its people aren't. There 
is alway a new project to move to, to contribute io. 
And a new, higher position to fill. That's where 
you come in. if youre the kind of individual who
wants to be right in the thick of 
things . who doesnt think it's 
old hat to work your way to the top. 
We cordially invite you to find your 
place in the Sun, in a permanent 
or summer position. Visit your place
ment office now to schedule an appoint
ment with our representativeon campus. If you can't 
meet us on campus, well send you employment 
information. Just drop a note to: Personnel & Col
lege Relations, Dept. H, Sun Oil Co., 1608 Walnut 
St., Rhiia., Pa. 19103. un Oil Company 
An equal opportunity employer m/f
and eat it, too.
Well be on campus 
FEBRUARY 14, 1968
An industrial 
. engineer in
I R I l^fc vl Banking is changing. Especially at First National
1^1 I |U II II I O City Bank of New York. Today, our Operating Division
|| 1,1 I I^L I I 1^^ V is a 7000 employee production facility with all the
A. AAA ^ technological problems of production, processes and
methods development. Bankers alone can't handle it.
What we need is scientific talent in modern industrial engineering, 
quantitative analysis, operations research, computer technology and technical planning.
With that kind of background, you can move into a position dealing with 
management problems arising from the creation, development and implementation of 
new approaches to the business of banking. What youll be doing is applying hardware techniques
to a paperwork and management environment.
We admit it requires some thought for an engineer to consider banking. While youre
thinking, bear it in mind that these positions reflect a new need at First National City Bank. 
The need is definitely established. Definitely growing. Definitely urgent.
Yes. at
Its a different kind of challenge. A far cry from the run-of-the-mill 
opportunities youll be offered. But, that's what can make it great.
For interviews on campus on Thursday, January 18, please see 
your Placement Director. If an interview is not convenient, call or write 
Bob Morello, First National City Bank, 399 Park Avenue, New York, 
New York 10022. Telephone (212) 559-4873.
An equal opportunity employer (m/f)
First National City.
For 68 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from.
MW. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8. ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANWednesday, January 10, 1968
The Tartans evened their rec
ord at 4-4 by picking up two 
victories in their last five en
counters. On Saturday Decem
ber 16, the C-MU five earned 
their third straight win at home 
by edging out Rochester 68-67. 
They followed this battle with 
a 69-67 decision over Case Tech.
The Rochester Yellow Jac
kets rocketed to a quick 14-2 
lead as the Tartans couldnt get 
underway. Dave Taylor, the 
slim 68 center for the visitors 
dominated the play druing this 
interval. When Snow Mitchell 
and Bill Weborg were inserted 
into the lineup, and Neil Houser 
began to find the range on his 
long jump shots, the- Tartans 
came to life. Houser was turn
ing in a great defensive per
formance, and setting up the 
lays as well as scoring. When 
Meister hit a pair of jump shots 
and tapped in a rebound, C-MU 
only trailed by a single point. 
The Tartans tied the score at 
27 on a great fast breaking 
play. Meister heaved a pass 
downcourt to Mitchell who simutaneously caught the ball in 
mid-air .and .whiped .a .pass 
across the key to Houser. Neil 
fed Mark Lang cutting down 
the middle for the two pointer. 
Houser and Weborg left Tartan 
scorers with 10 and 9 respective
ly when the half ended with 
the score knotted at 33-33.
C-MU got a big break as the 
second half got under way when 
Rochesters top scorer Taylor 
was injured and forced to leave 
the line-up. A number of bad 
passes put the Tartans behind 
by seven points. Then Hummel 
tossed in two jumpers and two 
free throws to cut the deficit 
to one point. The Tartans began 
to pull ahead and when Meister 
sank a lay-up on a play set up 
by Housers flashy behind the 
back pass, they led by five. But 
Rochester came back to within 
a point to make the score 66-65 
when Vance scored. After Bob 
Grazzini hit a clutch jump shot 
from the foul line, Masterman 
retaliated for Rochester and the 
Yellow Jackets regained pos
session of the ball with 12 sec
onds left. Fortunately Brown 
was called for an offensive foul
by Alan Letzt
Lang takes jump shot against Rochester." Photo by Jerry Siskind
Jump balL
Phoifco rs HJ,,s T69683
to give the Tartans the ball and 
a 68-67 victory.
Two days later, the Tartans 
handed Case a 69-67 set-back 
for the initial C-MU road win 
of the season. After the Tar
tans built up a large lead, Mark 
Lang, who was playing his great
est game to date, was given a 
breather. With Lang on the 
bench, Case began to chip away 
at the C-MU lead until the score 
was tied 63-63, and Mark re
turned to the lineup. However, 
it was Snow Mitchells last min
ute heroics which stemmed the 
Case threat and gave the Tar
tans the lead. Mitchell picked 
off a Case pass and drove 
down court to score the decid
ing two points. Hummel, who 
had a big second half and scored 
13 points overall, scored the fin
al point of the game on a free 
throw with 17 seconds left in 
the contest. Lang contributed 
27 points and 23 big rebounds 
to the Tartan win.
The Tartans suffered a disapointing 55-54 defeat at the 
Thiel gym on Dec. 12. C-MU 
trailed the Tomcats at half 
time by a mere four points and 
rallied to pull ahead 54-52 as 
time was running out. But the 
Tartans were blanked while a 
Thiel bucket and a free throw 
by Jim Baird closed out the 
scoring and gave Thiel the 
game. John Meister lead the 
Tartans in scoring with 19 
points and Mark Lang had 11. 
Dave Thomas led Thiel with 23 
points.
Last Thursday the Tartans 
travelled to Beaver Falls to face 
Geneva hoping to start off the 
New Year with their fifth tri
umph. They seemed to be well 
on the way to achieving this 
goal as they built up a 28-19 
lead, in the first 15 minutes of 
play. However, Hopper, a Gen
eva reserve, came up with eight 
of his 11 points during the final 
five minutes to close out the 
half C-MU holding on to a 33- 
30 lead.
The score remained close 
most of the second half and was 
tied 54-54 with two and a half 
minutes remaining. Meisters 
three point play gave C-MU a 
breif lead. But when Geneva 
tied the score once more and 
the Tartans failed to break the
deadlock Geneva went into a 
freeze with 38 seconds left. 
With the scoreboard clock 
showing four seconds left, 
Scheffield had a chance to give 
Geneva the lead, but he blew 
the shot, sending the game in
to overtime. The Tartans had 
the opportunity to draw first 
blood but missed the shot. The 
5mn9-nd,8 mn f0b, 9)
57 W&J
65 Grove City
74 Waynesburg 
54 Thiel
68 Rochester
69 Case Tech
62 Geneva
51 Wooster
Jan. 10St. Vincent 
Jan. 24at Waynesburg 
Jan. 27at Westminster 
Feb. 1at Pitt
Feb. 3Geneva 
Feb. 5Westminster 
Feb. 10at Western Res. 
Feb. 14Penn State 
Feb. 17at Allegheny 
Feb. 21at St. Vincent 
Feb. 24Grove City 
Feb. 28Pitt 
Mar. 2at W&J
IM REVIEW
TARTAN VOLLEYBALL 
(Final)
Set LeagueWL
GSIA50
BTP A41
EJ B32
TDP B23
SN A14
SAE C05
Serve LeagueWL
SAE A50
PKT A41
TDP A32
BTP B23
OLD MEN14
CUIT05
Spike LeagueWL
EP A50
ATO41
FINCHES32
TX23
DU A14
PKT B05
Pass LeagueWL
Algorithms61
SAE B52
5mn9-nd,8 mn f0b, 9)
TARTAN
f. antea, Editor 
r. swoboda. Assoc. Ed.
by Fred Rial
fhJ 7PkK 9d6BB68F oJ1B ,JB168J3 a83JmJ1oJ3 a8o60 
oh69 dJJJ83; io9 m6,9o 0e99 d19 oe w,eJ 76os; C 9s8eu969 
em ohJ BJJo9 69 19 me00ed9G 7PkK Nqn RJ9oJ,8 vJ9J,J "cZ 
7PkK EMn 719J ?qZ 7PkK E?n i836181 To1oJ K86J,96osn j1; 
?MG 7PkK EEn RJ9oB689oJ, "5G 183 7PkK "?n w,eJ 76os NM;
Despite losing record holders 
Bill Cotsworth, Peter Hutter, 
and Merrill Motors, the team 
has gained some very able 
freshmen. Bill Bums, a fresh
man diver has broken the old 
diving record two times: First 
in the Indiana State University 
meet and then in the Westmins
ter meet. Darcy Sheldon, an
other freshman, is the first 
woman diver for C-MU. An
other freshman after records is 
Jeff LaRochell, who has broken 
the old school butterfly record 
with a time of 2:28.8. Other
72Western Reserve31
60Case Tech42
64Indiana State40
66Westminster38
34Grove City70
Jan.10at W&J
Jan.31at West Virginia
Feb.3at Cleveland State
Feb.10at Thiel
Feb.13Youngstown
Feb.17Allegheny
Feb. 20Slippery Rock
Feb.24at Bethany
Mar.2Penn-Ohio
CMU Cagers Stay Tough: 
Record Evens At 4-4
Loss To Grove City 
Cuts Swim Win Streak
Darcy Sheldon shows winning form against Indiana.
feshman who have had little 
race experience but are hoping 
to gain proficiency in the free
style events are Andy Beal, Dave 
MacFarlane, Scott Miller, and 
Mike Fotta.
John Perry and Les Hough, 
returning lettermen and co-cap
tains, are maintaining the free
style wins aided by Jim Wentz, 
another letterman. Our dynamic-duo in the 500 and 1000 
yard events, Tom Thomas and 
Steve Heckman have proven 
to be a powerful force against 
the opposition. Steve, a new 
face on the team this year, has 
been beaten in the 1000 only 
once this year. John Perry is 
breaking into the middle dis
tance races from the sprinters 
class. In the Indiana University 
and Westminster meets, he has 
taken first place in the 500 yard 
freestyle event.
Preston Biglow and Tom Kil
gore are meeting the other chal
lengers in the individual med
ley and back stroke events. Both 
lettermen are desirous of bet
tering the pool and school recPtioto by Joe Tyler
ords on the record board before 
this season is out. Bruce McKelvy and Fred Rial are try
ing to keep the other teams 
out of the scoring column in 
the 200-yard breatstroke. Under 
Jack Trezise our coach, we hope 
to have a winning season.
In our last meet against 
Grove City, four pool records 
were smashed. Mickey McCol
lum won the 1000-yard freestyle 
event with a record time of 
11:47.5. The other pool records 
went to three other Grovers; 
Arbuckle in the 200-yard free
style, Reed in the 200-yard back
stroke, and Griswold in the 200- 
yard breast stroke.
The individual events break
down as follows for the Grove 
City meet:
400-yard medley  C-MU (Big
low, McKelvy, Heckman, Beal) 
Time 4:28.1 
1000-yard freestyle  McCollum 
GC, McClain GC, Perry C-MU. 
Time 11:47.5 
200-yard freestyle  Arbuckle 
GC, McMillan GC, Wentz 
5mn9-nd,8 mn f0b, 9)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 10, 1968THE TARTANPage 9
llli-ZW :3NOHd 
30N3AV HiJIJ 80ZE ' Oaia SJLHV 1VDI03W 
ps3 -a-1 luapms V!M
13S S HSVM JJO Y;Kuo|e$ A}neag sj93je|/y
[ CIVIC I ARENA j1 THURS., JAN. 25 I
ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY 1 8 P.M.
GROUP| l\UltA io2ou W PRESEMTS
SPECIAL 
GUEST STARS 
The Pair Extraordinaire
Clark RaceKDKA RadioEmcee
TICKETS: $3.00 - $4.00 - $5.00 (tax incl.)
TICKETS ON SALE
Horne's, Kaufmann's end Gimbels Downtown, Hughes ft Hatcher 
Boot Shop, Penn-Sheraton Ticket Agency, Pitt Book Center, The 
Listening Post in Shadyside, Ail National Record Mart Stores and 
Gate One Civic Arena.
MAIL ORDERSSend check or money order with a self-adtfressed stamped envelope to Civic Arena, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219, Make chocks payable to Bill Cosby Show.
A SAH ENTERPRISES, INC. PRODUCTION
WANTED
Male students, juniors and above, to partici
pate in test validation studies. Earn $7.50 to 
$13.00 in 4 hours.
5mrW,n609-mn J06,8 mn W,AmAr0no,s
American Institute for Research
CALL 683-7600, Ext. 212
emdW n2 e0n8M-oY eYmWW,a Lxnos
Monday thru Saturday  6 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Sunday  10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
DAILY SPECIAL - 6 a.m. - 11 a.m.
2 STRIPS BACON - 2 EGGS - 2 PIECES OF TOAST 
HOMEFRIES - COFFEE - 55c
lzz RVfge By elF1O;5hge lF1 eBIf
Original House Of Beef
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
O-9Y y0n9069-o 10-Kw eW,o-0K6
Free Deliveries to all Dorms 
from 9 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
OPEN: Sun.-Thurs.: ^ a.m.- 3 a.m.; Fri.-Sat.: 6 a.m.- 4 a.m.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
WALLYS
5lfIe(yl3Big1 
? gF 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLORSHEIM
lKK
fmWdK0A
fA-o,6q
? wdAb 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
 WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes Avenue (Across from Strand Theatre)
Basketball...
5mn9-nd,8 Amr f0b, 8)
ref then sent Lang to the bench 
by calling a backcourt foulLangs fifth personal.
This proved to be the turning 
point of the game as Geneva 
took the lead and held onto the 
ball forcing the Tartans to foul 
them intentionally. They con
verted these free throws and 
won the game 67-62. Lang 
scored 18 for C-MU and Petruny led the victors with 26 
points.
Playing their third consecu
tive game off the Tech campus, 
the Tartans tried to repeat last 
seasons win over Wooster. 
Wooster boasted three starters 
who were listed on the program 
as 67, a packed in partisan 
home crowd and a gym which 
nearly gave our players claus
trophobia. The pace of the game 
was slow in the beginning and 
the Tartans took a 6-2 lead on 
two jump shots and a tap in 
by Lang. Barry Hummel, who 
had some trouble holding onto 
the ball, scored the next six 
points for the Tartans to keep 
the team ahead 12-8. The score 
remained close until the last 
minute of the half wheen Woos
ter pulled ahead to a 36-28 lead. 
Mark Lang did a great job in 
holding Rich Thompson to a 
pair of field goals in the first 
half while adding 10 points him
self. However, Tom Dinger was 
unstoppable as he broke picks 
and drive to score 17 points in 
the half. The second half was a 
disaster for the Tartans who 
were outrebounded by the tall
er Scots and unable to mount 
a sustained scoring attack. The 
smaller gym definitely hamper
ed the Tartans style of play 
while Geneva simply put more 
points on the scoreboard. The 
final score was Geneva 72 C-MU 
51.
Jan. 4
C-MU
HununeLl
Meister
FG
6
3
FT PTS
3* 7 15
2-2 8
Lang90- 018
DeHuff21- 15
Houser51 215
Weborg20- 14
Stobbe01- 21
Grazzini00- 00
278-1562
GenevaFGFT PTS
Hobba31- 27
Opher10- 02
ONeill43- 511
Sheffield31- 27
Petruny106- 626
Hopper51- 211
Baekensto11- 13
Dec. 18
2713-1867
C-MUFGFT PTS
Meister40- 18
Hummel53- 713
Lang123- 427
DeHuff31- 17
Houser10- 12
Weborg20- 04
Grazzini10- 02
Stobbe20- 04
Mitchell10- 02
317-1469
CASEFGFTPTS
Paulus00 00
Pushaver62- 214
Dahlgren43- 511
Trolley10- 12
Koenig10- 02
Pekkanen60- 012
Piendel37- 713
Baber03- 63
Ester42- 210
Dec. 16
2617-2367
C-MUFGFTPTS
Hummel42- 310
Meister41- 29
Lang42- 510
Houser82- 318
Weborg36- 912
Mitchell11- 13
Grazzini22- 36
DeHuff00- 00
26162668
RochesterFGFTPTS
Baker21- 25
Masterman32- 28
Taylor63- 415
Brown34- 610
Vance53- 313
McIntyre30- 16
Wardell13- 45
Tliever12- 34
Huddle01- 21
2419-2867
Swimming...
ae6ney0I p,aF lJB0 8) 
C-MU. Time 1:57.2
50-yard freestyleHough C-MU, 
Droz GC, Albright GC. Time 
24.5
200-y a r d Individual medley  
Mott GC, Biglow, C-MU. Time 
2:20.8
200-yard butterfly  Anderson 
GC, Mott, GC, LaRochelle 
C-MU. Time 2:21.6
100-yard freestyle  Schaffer 
GC, Hough, C-MU, Wentz 
C-MU. Time 54.5
200-yard backstrokeReed GC, 
Johnston GC, Kilgore C-MU. 
Time 5:54.5
500-yard freestyle  McCollum 
GC, McClain GC, Perry C-MU. 
Time 5:54.5
200-yard breaststroke  GrisMinarik C-MU Time 2:24.5
400-yard freestyle relayC-MU 
(Wentz, Beal, Hough, Perry) 
Time 3:45.8
Diving  Eells GC, Lynch GC, 
Burhs C-MU. Points 183.45
I. M. Review...
5mn9-nd,8 Amr f0b, 8)
PKA
PTD
SN B 
DO-DAHS 
DU B
All School Teams
Following the end of soccer 
and volleyball season, the team 
managers and members of the 
IM Board voted for all school 
teams.
The adl school soccer team 
consisted of the following play
ers: Goalie, Shapiro, BTP; full
backs, Eisenman, SN, and Fetterman, BTP; forwards, Bosch, 
Grad Nads; Khan, SN; and Pra
do, BTP.
On the second choice team 
were: Pancavage, EJs, goalie; 
fullbacks, Pirres, BTP, and 
Drozd of SN, who had an equal 
number of votes; and Johnson, 
GSIA; forwards, Aylor, SN; 
Kaye, DTD; and Palme EJs.
The first choice for most val
uable player went to Prado of 
Beta. Second choice fell to Pan
cavage, also of Beta Theta Pi.
In six man volleyball, the fol
lowing were elected to first 
team: spikes, Dankosky of SAE; 
Moise, GSIA; Danesreau, GSIA; 
and Carter, EJs; and setters: 
Kilpela, SAE, and Park, EJs.
Second team: spikers, Walker, 
GSIA; Malizia, SAE; Nist, EJs; 
and Brezovec, ATO; and setters, 
Smolens, TDP, and Burt, GSIA.
WATER POLO 
Atlantic League W
GSIA 3
BTP A 2
TDP 0
PKA 0
PKT 0
Pacific Lea grue
SN 
ATO 
DTD 
BTP B
BSR
W
2
2
1
1
0
L
0
0
1
2
2
L
0
0
2
2
2
RESEARCH WORK DONE 
for students. Payable on 
delivery. Very reasonable. 
Phone: GR 1-5763.
Bedroom Set for Sale 
Call: 661-9691
Double bed, dresser, vanity, 
upright chair, small stool.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANWednesday, January 10, 1968
IN AND 
AROUND
? MUSIC
Met SoloistYM and WHA Musical Society presents Enzio 
Flagello, leading basso of the Metropolitan Opera and a favorite 
of Pittsburgh Opera audiences, in his Pittsburgh recital debut 
Wednesday, Jan. 10, 8:40 pm at the YM and WHA, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., between Fifth and Forbes Aves., in Civic Center, Oak
land. The concert is open to the public.
Student RecitalC-MU student string recital under George 
Grossman. In Exhibition Hall Jan. 11 at 12:30 pm. Free to public.
Bach Choir of PittsburghBrahms German Requiem with 
Jeanne Leiper, soprano, and Lee Cass, baritone, and Verdis Stabat Mater will be presented by the Duquesne University Sym
phony Orchestra under Goldner at Carnegie Music Hall on Jan. 
13 at 8:30 pm. Tickets are on sale at Homes, Gimbels, and the 
Pitt Book Store.
Pittsburgh Concert SocietyConcert by auditions winners 
Arnita Pyles, mezzo, and Naomi Radkoff, lyric soprano. Synod 
Hall, 125 N. Graig St. at 8:30 pm on Jan. 13.
Music Guild, Brahms SocietyThe Brahms Society in cooper
ation with Music Guild of Pittsburgh and University of Pittsburgh 
will present Kraus, pianist. Second concern in Brahms cycle. Frick 
Fine Arts Bulding at 8:30 pm on Jan. 15.
OperaDamca Mastilovic, who has been acclaimed in Eur
ope for sensitive portrayal of the role, will sing the lead in the 
Pittsburgh Opera production of Aida at Syria Mosque on Jan. 
18 and 20 at 8:15 pm. Tickets are now on sale in the Office of 
the Dean, Fine Arts. Tickets are located on the second balcony, 
C right and C left sections, for $2 each.
? LECTURES
Thursday Luncheon ForumAfter Vietnam, What? with 
Dr. Leonard A. Rapping, associate professor of economics, GSIA; 
Dr. Daniel P. Resnick, assistant professor of history; and Dr. Lin
coln Wolfenstein, professor of physics, will be the topic of the 
Thursday Luncheon Forum Jan. 11 at 12:30 pm in the Highland
er Room.
Mass Transit ExpertJames P. Romualdi will discuss The 
Social Investment in Transportation Research at 8:30 pm Thurs
day, Jan. 11, in the Skibo Ballroom.
Contemporary PlaywrightsMorris Camovsky, one of Amer
ica foremost actors, is scheduled to appear in the Temple Sinai 
on the theater series on Tuesday, Jan. 16. Mr. Carnovskys per
formance will include readings from many leading contemporary 
playwrights as well as a number of selections from Shakespeare 
from which he is internationally famed. Performance is sched
uled to begin at 8:30 pm in the Falk Auditorium, Temple Sinai, 
5505 Forbes Ave., Squirrel Hill.. Tickets will be on sale at the 
door at $2 each. Special student rate for the program is $1.
International Poetry Forum will present John Ciardi on Wed
nesday, Jan. 17, at 8:30 pm in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland. 
Mr. Ciardis appearance supercedes the originally announced ap
pearance of Leonard Cohen, who is unable to appear because of 
illness. Those already holding tickets few Mr. Cohens appearance 
may use them to hear Mr. Ciardi or have them refunded at the 
Forum office.
Crumbling Wall is open again for the new year. Friday and
Saturday nights, 9 pm to 1 am, and Sunday, 8 pm to midnight. 
4515 Forbes Ave. near Craig St.
SPORTS
Chess TournamentYM and WHA Chess Club will sponsor a 
15-second speed tournament on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 8:30 pm sharp. 
Open to all chess players. First prize, 40 per cent of receipts; 
second, 25 per cent; third, 15 per cent; and fourth, ten per cent. 
Players must be in their seats before 8:30 pm as no one can enter 
once the game has been started. For information, call 621-6500, 
extension 66, and ask for David Brummer.
HockeyTickets for Pittsburgh Penguins hockey games are 
on sale for half price at Skibo 103 from 8:30 am until 5 pm.
Slate Stores Add 
144 New Brands
More Wine on Vine 
Slow Movers Qo
Pennsylvanias State Liquor 
Stores will offer 144 new items 
next month in their campaign 
to satisfy the customer.
Board Chairman William Z. 
Scott said the net gain in 
brands, however, is 101 since 43 
current items will be dropped 
as slow-movers.
Because table wines are be
coming ever more popular, he 
said, the board is introducing 58 
new varities. It also is adding 
eight new bourbons, four blends, 
six gins, two brandies, two rums 
and 14 brands of miscellaneous 
spirits.
The continuing trend to eco
nomical half-gallons also per
suaded the board to present 34 
new labels in this size, Mr. Scott 
said.
On Jan. 2, liquor prices rose 
by four per centor approxi
mately 20 cents a fifth. Gov. 
Raymond P. Shafers tax pro
gram increased liquor excise 
taxes by three per cent, and the 
sales tax by one per cent, for a 
total of four per cent on alco
holic beveragesbeer excluded.
This generally restored the $1- 
a-fifth price gap between prices 
in Pennsylvania and those in 
neighboring Maryland, Ohio and 
New Jersey where rates are 
much lower.
GERALDINE 
CHAPLIN 
is ready 
for the 
here and 
now in
-yotSreqbig
1  5CuChI l e;h Re h5Re )
in the January
Atlantic
ON SALE 
at your newsstand NOW
l 3,Aw eW,o-0K gj,n9
THE DOUBM.E HELIX
fhJ 9oe,s em ohJ 369teJ,s em ohJ Js oe 
ohJ FJ8Jo6t te3Jn rs H1BJ9 D. R1o9e8 
dhe de8 ohJ WerJ0 j,6?J me, h69 u1,o 68 
ohJ 1th6JJBJ8o;
The l9K0n9-o publishes in two parts Professor 
Watsons personal account of a race to discovery 
as exciting as the race to the South Pole and 
immeasurably more important to mans k< "vledge of himself and his world. It inspired i stream 
of new research in biochemistry and has caused an 
explosive transformation of the science.
RY, 1mdJK, h,K-U begins in the January issue of 
The l9K0n9-o and concludes in February. It is a 
great story not only for its scientific information 
but also for what it says about the way scientists 
work, a story to enthrall all who care about the 
phenomenon of mi. n.
lK6m -n 9Y-6 -66d, 
Unpleasant facts aoout:
 The March on Washington 
 U.S. Treatment of Vietnamese Prisoners
UNDERGROUND FILMS
Heading the program will be Match Girl, starring Vivian Kurz 
and Andy Warhol, and will be presented Wednesday, Jan. 10, in 
the Skibo Ballroom. Co-featured will be Kiss and Eclipse of the 
Sun Virgin. Showings will be at 7, 9, and 11 pm. Admission will 
75 cents.
SCOTCH Nr SODA
Orchestra auditions will be held Feb. 10 and 11 for all de
partments. Time and details will be announced later.
C-MU EMPLOYEES
All students who were either full or part-time employees dur
ing the calendar year 1967 can pick up their W-2 Form (Wage and 
Tax Statement for Internal Revenue Service) on Jan. 31 in Room 
403, Pay Roll Office, Warner Hall. These forms are a must when 
filing your Federal Income Tax report.
ALIEN ADDRESS REPORT PROGRAM
All aliens in the United States must report their address dur
ing January of each year. This is required by the Immigration 
and Nationality Act. The alien goes to any United States Post 
Office or any Immigration Office and asks for an Alien Address 
Report Card. This is a simple form which he fills in and signs. 
He then hands the completed form to any post office clerk or 
immigration employee.
DELTA SKULL
The Junior Mens Honoray has offered free tutoring to all stu
dents participating in interscholastic athletics. At present the 
Athletic Department must pay for this service. Mr. Haynes, head 
of the Athletic Department, was delighted by Delta Skulls offer. 
All athletics interested in this service should contact Mr. Haynes 
at the athletic office.
COLLEGE POETRY ANTHOLOGY
Closing date for submission of manuscripts by college stu
dents for the National Poetry Press is April 10. Poems must be 
typed or printed on separate sheets. Name, home address, and 
college address must be included. Send poems to National Poetry 
Press, 3210 Selby Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 90034.
SCHOLARSHIPS: SOUTHERN FRANCE
Five scholarships of $1,000 each are available to qualified stu
dents applying to the Institute for American Universities for an 
academic year at Aix-en-Provence. In addition, an $800 French 
Government Scholarship, reserved for French majors, and 25 
tuition grants, are awarded each year. Information is available 
in college libraries, Foreign Study offices, or French Departments. 
Applications should be made by air mail directly to: The Director, 
Institute for American Universities, 27 Place de lUniversite, or 2 
bis, rue du Bon-Fasteur, 13-Aix-en-Provence, France.
Mid-Winter Nightmare
G-'Ex.O RUHPYFG?P NGbGdy W.?YP 
YG LHH
by Lee Williamson
c; 7ea8o m,eB e8J oe 68m686os; /f6BJ 06B6o m6J B68aoJ9;4
q; Y8aBJ,1oJ ohJ erUJto9 68 ohJ 8a00 9Jo;
"; SJ96F8 1 uJ,uJoa10 Beo6e8 B1th68J;
?; SJ69J 18 JzuJ,6BJ8o10 BJohe3 me, 3JoJ,B6868F ohJ 1r9e0aoJ 
ueoJ8o610 em 1 h10mPtJ00;
.; TJu1,1oJ ohJ 8e,oh 183 9eaoh ue0J9 em 1 B1F8Jo;
E; SJ9t,6rJ hed oe 3JoJ,B68J 96Ba0o18Jea90s ohJ J0et6os 183 
ue96o6e8 em 1 9arP1oeB6t u1,o6t0J;
N; Vet1oJ ohJ e,6F68 em ohJ K86J,910 vJmJ,J8tJ Ts9oJB; K9J ue01, 
tePe,3681oJ9;
5; 710ta01oJ ohJ B199 em 18 erUJto Be68F d6oh 1 J0et6os em qt; 
/vJ9o B199 $ c F;Z t $ 9uJJ3 em 06Fho4
9. w6J ohJ m,J(aJ8ts d1J0J8Foh em ohJ te0e, r01t;
cM; SJ96F8 18 J8F68J euJ,1o68F d6oh 18 Jmm6t6J8ts F,J1oJ, oh18 
e8J; K9J ohJ 71,8eo tst0J;
cc; S,1d 18 J0Jto,e8; V1rJ0;
cM; SJ9t,6rJ ohJ thJB6t10 183 uhs96t10 u,euJ,o6J9 em 1 1taaB;
French Course
FOR BEGINNERS 
$3.00 an Hour
CALL . .. 683-9507
Liberal art graduate* wanted part 
time to teach English oriented 
course. Intelligence, personality, re
sponsibility more important than ex
perience. Car necessary. Available 
after 1:30 p.m. Contact Mr. Padbros. 
471-5654.
