TARTA IM
Volume 66Number 21Wednesday, March 15, 1967
Poll Results Pro-War, 
But Dove Vote Strong
Carnegie Tech students and faculty gave a cautious 
vote of confidence to Vietnam hawks in last weeks Tartan 
referendum on the war. Of the two policy proposals printed 
in the March 1 Tartan, they favored the pro-war proposal 
196 to 130, and indicated that the best policy for the U.S. 
in Vietnam would be to make efforts to achieve victory 
through more intense military activity.
Tech Studies 
Rebuttal
Draft Proposals;
To Johnson Possible
by E. Seley
Carnegie Tech is currently engaged in a thorough study of President Johnsons 
March 6 message to Congress concerning revised proposals of Selective Service pro
cedures and the effects they will have upon students.
This last alternative was chosen 
by only a plurality of the respon
dees, however, and the vote was 
almost 2 to 1 in favor of includ
ing the National Liberation Front 
(Viet Cong) in future negotia
tions. Also, a significant number 
felt the U.S. has deliberately 
withheld information from the 
American people, beyond secur
ity reasons.
A total of 463 students and 
faculty answered the pollabout 
a ten per cent response, but still 
above average for Tech public 
opinion polls.
In general, there were few 
passionate extreme-hawk or extreme-dove responses to the 
referendum. Many people said 
the questions were too blackand-white, and most wrote in 
qualifying conditions under at 
least one of their answers.
The actual vote count in the 
referendum was: Tartan Propos> al A (Tech Young Americans 
for Freedom, Our goal . . . must 
be peace through victory.)196 
agree, 140 disagree. Proposal B 
(Cornell Conference, . . . make 
the basic decision to accept a 
compromise settlement.)  130 
agree, 159 disagree.
The best policy for the U.S. 
in Vietnam is: more intense 
military activity  228; halt 
bombings and attempt to start 
negotiations  143; immediate 
removal of all U.S. troops44; 
continue the present conduct of 
the war without major changes 
42.
Policy Changes Needed
Thus, while very few favored 
complete withdrawal, most felt 
(Continued on Page 4)
Correction
Last week it was errone
ously reported that the Kent 
D. Shaffer Memorial Schol
arship is restricted from the 
general campus community. 
In fact, the award is open to 
all freshman, sophomore, and 
junior men, except brothers 
and pledges of A Phi O.
The winner of the $250 scholar
ship, to be announced at Call 
Day, is to be a student whose 
personal conduct reflects the 
ideals of Alpha Phi Omega, and 
the principles exemplified in the 
work of Professor Shaffer (see 
Page 1 of the C-book).
i This award is made by the 
I chapter in addition to a contri
bution of a trust which is to 
I fnake this award perpetual.
Interested men are now asked 
to write to KDS Trustees, Box 
282, Campus Mail.
Two Seniors Receive 
Woodrow Wilson Grants
Two Carnegie Tech men have been named Woodrow Wil
son Fellows for the academic year 1967-68. Three other sen
iors were cited by the foundation for honorable mention.
The Woodrow Wilson Fellows 
are Howard B. Lasnik, English, 
and Evan M. Melhado, chemistry. 
The recipients of the honorable 
mention awards are Robert D. 
Cooper, architechture; Louis I. 
Middleman, literature; and Chris
tine L. Wick, English.
The Woodrow Wilson National 
Fellowship Foundation.^ is pro
vided under a grant from the 
Ford Foundation. Each year 1,000 
seniors interested and seriously 
considering pursuing a college 
teaching career are awarded the 
fellowships; in addition 1,500 
more are cited for honorable 
mention. This year there were 
13,596 nominees, from 1,022 col
leges, vying for the fellowships.
Film Depicts 
Damaged Art
Florence : Days of Destruc
tion, a film narrated by Rich
ard Burton illustrating the 
extensive flood damage last 
November in Florence, Italy, 
to thousands of precious Ital
ian Renaissance works of art 
is slated to be shown this 
Friday evening at 7 pm in the 
Skibo ballroom, as part of a 
fund-raising drive being con
ducted on campus to help 
save Italian art. All inter
ested parties are invited to 
attend.
In response to the fund drive, 
conducted by Cwens, sophomore 
womens activities honorary, for 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
Committee to Rescue Italian Art 
(CRIA), over $150 in donations 
was collected at three booths lo
cated in campus buildings; a $50 
donation was voted by the Asso
ciation of Women Students, and 
over $500 in donations was col
lected at a public preview and 
benefit performance of Shakes
peares The Merchant of Venice, 
presented by the drama depart
ment.
Tax deductible donations are 
still being accepted by the CRIA, 
and may be mailed to CRIA, Inc., 
c/o Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Inside . . .
Today9 s Tartan
Student Senate
Approves Budget Total..................p. 2
Cello-Piano Duo
make Pittsburgh Debut ..................p. 2
Communications Revolution ................p. 3
God is Alive ..........................................p. 4
Editorial ..................................................p. 6
Student Government President
and Vice-President Nominees ........p. 6
Letters to the Editor ...........................p. 7
1967-68 Women's
Housing Information .........................p. 8
Developing the Female Touch ............p. 9
Winter's Last Stand
(Pictures) .........................p. 10 and 11
Rifle Team Shoots at Annapolis ....p. 14
To the recipients, the fellow
ship provides full tuition and fees 
as well as a living stipend of $2,- 
000 a year. In addition, the foun
dation awards a supplementary 
grant to each school that the fel
low enrolls in to provide fellow
ship to advanced graduate stu
dents.
In making the announcement 
of the winners, Eugene H. Milich, 
associate Dean of Men, comment
ed that this years winners were 
among the finest group of stu
dents ever nominated at Carne
gie Tech.
Drug Position 
Issued in April
The Division of Student 
Afip-ixs will issue a policy 
statement the first week of 
April, concerning the official 
opinion of the university on 
the usage of drugs on cam
pus. According to G. K. 
Brown, Dean of Student Af
fairs, this statement is for
mulated on the basis of a 
study made by a special com
mittee, formed in April 1965, 
and chaired by Dean of Men, 
Earle Swank.
The committee, consisting of 
administrators and faculty, was 
formed as a result of a concern 
for drug usage on campus. Since 
many diverse viewpoints were 
held by members of the commit
tee, an expert, Dr. Trellis of the 
Penn State Mental Hospital, was 
consulted.
Trellis dispelled some of the 
myths concerning marijuana, al
though he did not condone its 
use. He also eased the pressure 
on the committee to release a 
public statement on drugs, claim
ing that any such statement 
would only attract attention to 
the problem.
However, since Trellis made 
this statement, the administra
tion has reevaluated its position, 
and will issue an official opin
ion. According to Dean Brown, 
there is no indication of hard 
drugs, such as heroine, cocaine, 
or morphine on campus.
The present Selective Service 
Law will expire June 30, 1967. 
Johnson asked for a four-year 
extension of the present law with 
some changes which he can ef
fect by executive order unless 
Congress curtails that power be
fore the order is made. These 
proposals, if enacted, would go 
into effect by January, 1969, and 
may have far-reaching effects on 
the draft status of college stu
dents.
See Editorial, Page 6
The proposals advanced by 
President Johnson are the fol
lowing:
1. The present Selective Serv
ice law will be extended for foui 
years upon its expiration June 
30, 1967.
2. Men will be inducted first 
at 19 years of age, thus reversing 
the current policy of calling old
er men first.
3. Policies concerning under
graduate deferments will be 
tightened, so that these defer
ments can never became exemp
tions from military service. Also, 
post-graduate deferments will be 
provided for medical and dental 
students only.
4. Eligibility for all types of de
ferment will be determined by 
firm rules to be applied uniform
ly throughout the country.
5. A fair and impartial random 
system of selection will be es
tablished to determine the or
der of call for all men eligible 
and available for military serv
ice.
6. Improvements in the Selec
tive Service System will be iro 
mediately effected to assure bet' 
ter service to the registrant botl 
in counseling and appeals, bettei 
information to the public regard
ing the Systems operation, anc 
broader representation on loca 
boards of the communities they 
serve.
(Continued on Page 6)
Telling-itrlike-it-is-Department
Tartan photo by Mark Kaminsky
more photos on pages 10 and 11.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECK TARTAN - Wednesday, March 15, 1967
STRAND
GRETA
CLARKGABLE
JEANHARLOW
RID DUST
Stanley
Warner
8th BIG
WEEK1BEST FILM OF 
1966!
National Society of Film Critics 
A Carlo Ponti Production
Antonionis
BLOW-UP
Vanessa Redgrave
David Memmings  Sarah Miles
COLOR
Recommended for 
mature audience
A Premier Productions Co., Inc. Release
WALNUTSTREETMU.21901
Senate Approves Total, 
Defers Individual Budgets
Student Senate met last week to review student activity 
budgets for next year. After some discussion of the Car
negie Technicals appropriation request and the fabled WRCT 
budget, Senate voted to approve the gross sum of the total 
activities appropriation for 1967-68, but to defer approving 
the budget of any individual activity.
Overall, 14 different student or- __________________________________
ganizations requested subsidies 
totaling $26,875. The Division of 
Student Affairs, acting through 
Student Senate, subsidizes some 
organizations (such as the Cam
eron Choir) completely, and 
helps to finance several others. 
Publications receive a flat sub
sidy plus matched advertising 
 a dollar from the school for 
every dollar they raise through 
advertising.
Only one subsidy request was 
substantially cut. The Senate Fi
nance Committee cut WRCTs $4,-
650 request to $3,580. Most of 
the budget items cut were new 
equipment. The TechnicaFs $4,- 
250 appropriation was also chal
lenged, mainly because the sec
ond issue, scheduled for Decem
ber, has not come out yet. (Tech
nical Editor Chuck Schoenfeldt 
says the magazine will be out 
soonpossibly next week.)
The budgets of all student ac
tivities requesting subsidies for 
next year are as follows:
Estimated
Total ExpensesStudent Govt
1967-68Subsidy
Tartan .......................................................$16,330$8,830
Thistle ..................................................... 11,5008,830
WRCT ..................................................... 6,6153,580
Technical ................................................. 11,6004,250
Patterns ................................................... 970650
Cameron Choir .................................... 2,3352,335
Scotch n Soda ................................... 3,200650
Radio Club ............................................. 655650
Cheerleaders ........................................ 305305
International Club .............................. 35035
Chess Club ............................................. 4730
Student Government .......................... 745745
Debate Society...................................... 2,6502,600
Motorsports Clubs .................................. 7045
THE
Tender, Rueful, Masterful
OPENS MARCH 10thmm mum
RESERVED *** 0ffk* N*m* *21-4445 or Cijftbets,** Hth*i fTfcwrttn M4A 0*___0*___Po lll nerwe i| rRR*viPwwi q+ nvr vwTvrSEATS NOW au scats $3.30 (sat. $4.401
Performances: Tats, tkr* Set 1 tJOS11. at 7:)0
SPECIAL RAPES FOR STUDENTS
WITH I.D. CARDS: $1.50 Mon. thru Fri. - $2.00 Saturday
PoloRes uetr-Wa,lo Bo 
D,rev WavVRSn BeV
LAST 7DAYS
mwm.pHiisiras
'A FINNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAV Re THE FORIM'
MICHAEL CRAWFORD / MICHAEL HORDERN kinm,*,Mttvm fMNK MiCHAR PtRTWff
.vr"t ,'* e>, PM* , HAROLDS PS*C .w MttnKt* S!fPH(N S0**0HfiH 8*-,6URT SHfVflOVf I tl*W GflBiRlIDtESUR IUNITED ARTISTS
Jacqueline du Pre and Stephen Bishop, the most highly honored young cello-piano 
duo in the world today, make their first American appearance at 8:40 Wednesday evening, 
March 22, at the YM&WHA, 315 S. Beliefi eld Avenue, between Fifth and Forbes Aven- ^ 
ues, in Oakland. The program is open to the public.
Articles praising Miss du Pre
and Mr. Bishop for their individ
ual talents and their superb 
quality as a duo are appearing 
in the American press with in
creasing frequency. American cri
tical response has been equally 
as enthusiastic as this quote 
taken from The Guardian (Lon
don): An outstanding artistic 
partnership. A degree of expres
sive understanding that makes 
even the magnificent playing of 
other duos seem comparatively 
superficial.
Jacqueline du Pre, the British cellist, makes her first ex* 
tensive tour of the United 
Sates this season. Now 21, she 
is already established on the 
international music scene as one 
of the extraordinary instrumen
talists of our time. Said the Her
ald Tribune after her New York 
debut last spring: One must 
go back to the heyday of Cas
als, or to so singular an artist 
as Rostropovich for adequate 
comparisons.
Even at 16, Miss du Pre, des
cendant of an ancient Jersey 
family that dates back to 1100 
A.D., was recognized in London, 
performing on the BBC and with 
orchestras in Royal Festival Hall 
and at the Edinburgh Festival. 
Instruments Donated
When she was five, the artist 
first heard a cello on a BBC 
broadcast and immediately de
manded to study the instrument. 
Her mother, who taught piano 
at the Royal Academy of Music, 
and her father, Secretary of the 
Institute of Cost and Works Ac
countants, gave her every en
couragement. Friends made avail
able to her a succession of intrumentsa Guamerius, a Ruggeri, a Tachler of 1696on which 
to play. Eventually, an anony
mous donor made her a present 
of a 1672 Stradivarius. Last year, 
another anonymous patron gave 
her the famous Davidoff, val
ued at some $90,000.
Miss du Pre has coached both 
with Casals and with Rostropo
vich. With Rostropovich she 
spent several months in Mos
cow during this past winter.
In hailing her New York debut 
last season, the New York Times 
reported, A tall, slim, blonde, 
Miss du Pre looked like a cross 
between Lewis Carrolls Alice and 
one of the angelic instrumentalStephen Bishop and Jacqueline duPre: outstanding ... makes even 
the magnificent playing of other duos seem superficial.
ists in Renaissance paintings. And, 
in truth, she played like an angel, 
one with extraordinary warmth 
and sensitivity.
In the World-Telegram and 
Sun, Louis Biancolli wrote, So 
fantastic was the technique, so 
exquisite the tone, so profound 
the mastery of style, that one 
rubbed ones eyes. It all seem
ed an illusion. But there she 
was, all of 20, and all of genius.
We were in the company of the 
worlds first young lady of mu
sic!
Stephen Bishop is Americanborn, but his rise to pianistic 
fame has taken place largely in 
England.
He was bom in Los Angeles in 
1940, of Yugoslav parentage, and 
studied with Lev Shorr for 11 
years beginning in 1948. His prom
ise became quickly apparent, and 
he made his formal solo recital 
bow at the age of 11. At 13 and 14, 
he made appearances with the 
San Francisco Symphony.
In 1959, he moved to England 
to undertake studies with Dame 
Myra Hess, and has concentrated 
his musical activities there ever 
since. In November 1961, he made 
his London debut with a recital 
at Wigmore Hall, winning unus
ually enthusiastic critical notices.
He followed it up with further 
recitals in March and Sept. 1962, 
with more and more critics com
menting on his powerful tech
nique and vigor of mind (Peter 
Hey worth in The Observer), and 
his mature poise and vision
(London Times).
Major Guest Appearances
There followed a succession of 
BBC broadcasts and appearances | 
with major British orchestras un
der such conductors as Sir John 
Barbirolli, Sir Adrian Boult, Colin 
Davis, and Antal Dorati. His es- ^ 
pecial affinity for works of the j 
classical school brought compari- | 
sons of his playing to that of such j 
masters as Schnabel, Kempff and 
Backhaus.
Edward Greenfield wrote In 
The Guardian: By what irony 
does a young American pianist 
become the standard bearer of f 
the European tradition? After 
last nights Prom performance 
of Beethovens Emperor Con
certo by Stephen Bishop, I am 
convinced that is what has hap
pened. Bishop has long seemed 
to be a pianist magician . . . 
a potential master and thinker. 
But until last night, I felt bound 
to put in the potential. Now it * 
must come out. This was a per
formance such as I have rare
ly, if ever, heard even from 
great masters.
Mr. Bishop is now on his first 
major tour of the United States.
For their premiere perfor
mance, Miss du Pre and Mr. Bis
hop will play the following pro- ^ 
gram:
I
683-6992
Sonata in A Major, Opus 69--------------Ludwig van Beethoven
Allegro ma non tanto 
Scherzo; Allegro molto 
Adagio cantabileAllegro vivace
Sonata (1915)-----------------Claude Debussy
Prologue
Serenade et finale
Sonata in F Major, No. 2, Opus 99
-------------Johannes BrahrnsAllegro vivace
Adagio affettuoso
Allegro passionata
Allegro molto

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 15, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
LocalArtistsGive 
Modern Art V iews
A modern art lecture series 
featuring local and international 
artists and commentators will be
gin March 20 at the Irene Kaufmann Center on Forbes Avenue 
near Murray Ave. in Squirrel Hill.
Private Views and Happenings 
in Modern Art will be discussed 
by Henry Koemer, March 20; 
Martin Engel, March 27; Jerry 
Caplain, April 3; Douglas Picker
ing, April 10; Harry Holland, 
April 17; and Douglas Crait, May
8. All lectures begin at 8:30 p.m.
Cost for the series to IKC mem
bers is $7 per person or $12 per 
couple; to non-members, the cost 
is $9 per person or $15 per couple.
^Advance registration is required 
and can be made by calling the 
Center, 621-6500, ext. 28.
If Mexico and Bermuda send you, 
well send you posters of Mexico and Bermuda.
3 for $1.50.
The diver of Acapulco. The torero of Mexico. 
The sleek racing craft of Bermuda. 
All three 30" x 40" posters are beautifully 
reproduced in color. And they're all yours for 
only $1.50. 
We think you'll like them so much, you'll
want to go to Mexico and Bermuda some day.
And when you do, we hope you'll go on 
Eastern.
So don't just sit there staring at four blank 
walls. Fill in the coupon below and send for 
your colorful posters now.
EASTERN
We want everyone to fly.
Surinach To Discuss 
Music In Spanish
Dr. Charles Surinach, famous 
Spanish composer and presently 
visiting Professor of Music at 
Carnegie Tech, will be the speak
er at the next meeting of the 
Spanish Club of Pittsburgh on 
Saturday, March 18th at 8:15 pm 
in the Rogal Room of the Young 
Mens and Women Hebrew As
sociation (YM & WHA), 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave., Oakland.
Dr. Surinach will discuss in 
Spanish his own music and his 
manner of composing, wjiich he 
will illustrate with excerpts from 
his works. He will also speak 
about the ballet which he is com
posing in conjunction with Salva
dor Dali, which has been com
missioned by the Harkness Foun
dation for use by the Harkness 
Ballet Company.
Refreshments will be served 
during the social hour which will 
close the meeting. Visitors are 
welcomed.
Coffee Shop  Cafeteria  Laundry 
Barber Shop  Check Room 
Tailor  Sightseeing  TV Room 
Information
REQUEST BOOKLET jc]
To: Eastern Airlines, Inc., Poster Offer, Box 4211, Grand Central Station, New York, N. Y. 10017
Please send me the Bermuda, Acapulco, and Mexico posters, for which I enclose a $1.50 money 
order or check (payable to Eastern Air Lines, Inc. Poster Offer).
Name_______________ Address __________________________________
City___________ '__________________________State______________________Zip Code__
? I would also be interested in receiving a Youth Fare Application.
Conference Experts View 
CommunicationsRevolution
Experts from education, government, and the arts will 
analyze the worlds communications revolution when they 
appear at the Sixth Annual Carnegie Conference, April 1, at 
Carnegie Tech. ___________________________
Communication: Method and 
Message will be the theme of 
the 9 am to 4:30 pm session in 
the Skibo Ballroom on Techs 
campus. Eight distinguished 
speakers will consider methods of 
transmitting information  from 
Telstar and portable computers 
through op art to lasersas well 
as the nature of messages them
selves.
Guest luncheon speaker Carl 
T. Rowan, newsman, author, 
diplomat, and former director 
of the U.S. Information Agen
cy, will discuss The Role of 
the Press.
Other speakers include Nicho
las Johnson, a member of the
Federal Communications Commis
sion, who will conduct a Survey 
of Communications; C. Gordon 
Bell, associate professor of engi
neering and science at Carnegie 
Tech, Conservations with the 
Corporate Computer; and Wil
liam H. Kobin, vice-president for 
programming, National Education
al TV, Where Do We Go from 
Here?
The Arts in Communication 
will be discussed by four Car
negie Tech professors: Lee
Goldman, head of the design 
department; Roland Leich, as
sociate professor of music; M. 
Akram Midani, assistant pro
fessor of drama; and Richard 
R. OKeefe, instructor of literar 
ture.
Tech President H. Guyford 
Stever will open the conference.
Tech Politicians 
Think Viet Poll 
Was Accurate
Jim Coyne, president of the 
Tech Young Americans for Free
dom, which advocates victory 
in Vietnam, and Ellen Bergman, 
chairman of the pacifist Foreign 
Policy Forum, both said the trend 
of the response to the Tartan 
Vietnam referendum (roughly 60- 
40 in favor of military victory 
over a negotiated compromise 
settlement) was an accurate 
cross-section of student opinion, 
and that the results were about 
what they expected.
Although no pertinent statistics 
were available, both Coyne and 
Miss Bergman believed that the 
greater part of the pro-war vote 
came from E&S students. Coyne 
explained that engineers and pro
fessional students in general 
tend to be politicaly conservative, 
while Miss Bergman claimed that 
engineers tend to favor the war 
because of the economic oppor*- 
tunities that accrue from such 
a stand, and because engineers 
do not tend to be motivated by 
humanistic ideals.
Miss Bergman also said she 
thought engineers knew less 
about the Vietnam situation than 
students in other fields  even 
Fine Arts students. She said 
she was extremely bothered by 
the fact that most students want
ed the U. S. to step up military 
activity.
Coyne says the referendum re
sults cast doubt on the idea that 
the Tech delegation to the Cor
nell Conference on Vietnam rep
resented a viewpoint of the 
school. He says Techs delegates
should have walked out of the 
conference, which drafted five 
 acifist resolutions on the war.
Tartan editor Richard Sextro, 
ne of the delegates to Cornell, 
says the Tech contigent voted for 
the anti-war proposal B, printed 
in the March 1 Tartan, because 
it was the most realistic pro
posal drafted by the conference, 
and not necessarily because they 
opposed the war. None of the 
Tech delegates signed their names 
to the proposal.
COMING TO NEW YORK?
MAKE WILLIAM SLOANE HOUSE YMCA YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN N.Y.C.
REASONABLE  COMFORTABLE  CONVENIENT
Save money. Go further. Stay 
longer. The William Sloane House 
YMCA has 1491 rooms available 
to men, women and groups, sen
sibly priced at $3.15-$4.60 single; 
$5.00-$5.20 double. Rates include 
YMCA membership. Enjoy conven
ient transportation to everything.
WILLIAM
SLOANE
HOUSE
YMCA
sut WEST srth ST NEW YORK, N.Y. ReeeR. OX u-uRss e srth STREET - R BLOCK FROM PENN STATION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, March 15, 1967
Open Assembly 
Sings Messiah
The annual singing of choruses 
from Handels Messiah will be 
the assembly program next Tues
day, March 21, from 11:30 tol2:30 
in Exhibition Hall, Fine Arts. 
This is an unrehearsed perfor
mance open to all members of the 
campus communitystudents, fa
culty, administration and other 
personnel. Prof. Donald Wilkins 
of music will conduct and Prof. 
Hugh Young of natural sciences 
will provide piano accompani
ment.
PRODUCTION 
CREW SCHEDULE
SATURDAY, MARCH 18................1 p.m.
SUNDAY, MARCH 19....................2 p.m.
MONDAY, MARCH 20.................7 p.m.
TUESDAY, MARCH 21.................7 p.m.
ALL STUDENTS who have signed up 
for Crew Work on this year's pro
duction, please report to 32 Skibo 
on the above dates. Students who 
haven't signed up, and are inter
ested in Sets, Lights, or Costumes 
are urged to attend!
with
MaxShukan
(By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!, 
Dobie Gillisetc.)
WHOS GOT THE BUTTON?
Im sure it has not escaped your notice that underlying 
the adorable whimsy which has made this column such a 
popular favorite among my wife and my little dog Spot, 
there is a serious attempt to stay abreast of the problems 
that beset the American college student.
Many a trip have I made to many a campustalking to 
undergraduates, listening to their troubles, hearing their 
grievances, reading their buttons. (Incidentally, the sec
ond and third most popular buttons I saw on my last trip 
were: WALLACE BFERY LIVES and FLUORI
DATE MUSCATEL. The first most popular button was, 
as we all know, SCRAP THE SCRAPE which is worn, 
as we all know, by Personna Super Stainless Steel Blade 
users who, as we all know, are proud to proclaim to the 
world that they have found a blade which gives them 
luxury shave after luxury shave, which comes both in 
double-edge style and Injector style, which does indeed 
scrap the scrape, negate the nick, peel the pull, and oust 
the ouch, which shaves so closely and quickly and truly 
and beautifully that my heart leaps to tell of it. (If per
haps you think me too effusive about Personna, I ask you 
to remember that to me Personna is more than just a 
razor blade; it is also an employer.)
But I digress. I make frequent trips, as I say, to learn 
what is currently vexing the American undergraduate. 
Last week, for example, while visiting a prominent Eas
tern university (Idaho State) I talked to a number of 
engineering seniors who posed a serious question. Like 
all students, they had come to college burning to fill them
selves with culture, but, alas, because of all their science 
requirements, they simply had had no time to take the 
liberal arts courses their young souls lusted after. Are 
we doomed, they asked piteously, to go through life 
uncultured V'
I answered with a resounding No! I told them the 
culture they had missed in college, they would pick up 
after graduation. I explained that todays enlightened 
corporations are setting up on-the-job liberal arts pro
grams for the newly employed engineering graduate 
courses designed to fill his culture gapfor the truly en
lightened corporation realizes that the truly cultured em
ployee is the truly valuable employee.
To illustrate, I cited the well-known case of Champert 
Sigafoos of Purdue.
When Champert, having completed his degree in wing 
nuts and flanges, reported to the enlightened corporation 
where he had accepted employment, he was not rushed 
forthwith to a drawing board. He was first installed in 
the enlightened corporations training campus. Here he 
was given a beanie, a room-mate, and a copy of the com
pany rouser, and the enlightened corporation proceeded 
to fill the gap in his culture.
Fir^t he was taught to read, then to print capital let
ters, then capital and small letters. (There was also an 
attempt to teach him script, but it was ultimately 
abandoned.)
From these fundamentals, Champert progressed slowly 
but steadily through the more complex disciplines. He 
was diligent, and the corporation was patient, and in the 
end they were well rewarded, for when Champert fin
ished, he could play a clavier, parse a sentence, and name 
all the Electors of Bavaria.
Poised and cultured, Champert was promptly placed in 
an important executive position. I am pleased to report 
that he served with immense distinction-not, however, 
for long because three days later he reached retirement age.
Today, still spry, he lives in St. Petersburg, Florida, 
where he supplements his pension by parsing sentences for tourists.* * *  1967, Max Shulman
Here* a sentence thats easy to parse: Subjectyou. 
f erb double. Objectyour shaving comfort when 
you use Burma-Shave, regular or menthol, along.with 
your Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades."
Vietnam ...
(Continued from page 1)
that immediate major policy 
changes of some sort were need
ed. Several wrote in that ne
gotiation attempts should be start
ed while continuing the bombing.
The real aggressor in Viet
nam is: North Vietnam  263 
United States219; Red China 
150; USSR61. (More than one 
could be checked.)
Apparently, judging from this 
result, the majority see the war 
as principally a conflict between 
Hanoi and Washington. Many peo
ple expressed dissatisfaction with 
this question, though, because, as 
one student wrote in, we are 
all aggressors; we all want our 
ideologies to be victorious.
Respondees felt that the U.S. 
has: deliberately withheld In
formation . . . beyond security 
reasons 196; withheld in
formation, but only for secur
ity reasons  196; done a 
good job of informing the 
American people  210. So 
there is a credibility gap at 
Tech.
Finally, as mentioned before, 
268 people believe the U.S. should 
recognize the NLF and agree to 
include them in negotiations, 
and 155 said, we should refuse 
to recognize the NLF, because 
they have no legitimate claim to 
the government.
Theologian Gilkey Replies 
To Death-of-God Question
Dr. Langdon Gilkey, outstanding interpreter of con
temporary religious thought and professor of theology at 
the University of Chicago Divinity School, will be on campus 
tomorrow, March 16, to discuss Alternatives to the Death 
of God: Human Existence and the Reality of God.
In a recent article Prof. Gilkey
says that . . . God-is-dead theo
logy has so pointedly raised the 
question of the . . . meaningful
ness of any sort of religious disProf. Langdon Gilkey:
The Reality of God.
course that theology has been 
forced . . . toward an examina
tion of concrete modern experi
ence .   In the same article he 
says, . . . thanks to the God-isdead theologians, there is a new 
sense of the importance of theo
logical questions, a new concern 
for fundamental issues, and a 
new desire to think things out 
creatively from the very begin
ning . .
Yet Gilkey identifies himself 
with neo-orthodoxy, the domin
ant movement in Protestantism 
since World War I. This view 
affirms the transcendence of 
God . . . his unknowableness 
and his consequent difference 
from all our thoughts about 
him . . Gilkey says. This 
view of God has led him to be
come more and more remote 
from human experience, and to 
disappear altogether, according 
to Thomas Altizer and William 
Hamilton, radical theologians 
who visited Tech last month.
Dr. Gilkey, whose career in
cludes two years in a Japanese 
prison camp during World War
II and study in Europe on two 
Guggenheim fellowship, the last 
one for the study of Roman Cath
olic theology in Rome in 1965, 
will deal with the problems raised 
by the God-is-dead theologians in 
a talk tomorrow at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo ballroom, and in a discus
sion period at 8 pm in the High
lander room. Those who wish to 
eat dinner with him may sign 
up at 57 Skibo.
CE, ChE, IE. ME or EE
(MBA's with BS in Engineering)
CHARMIN PAPER PRODUCTS CO.
(A subsidiary of Procter & Gamble)
will interview for positions in 
manufacturing management
MARCH 16 and 17
FIVE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD BE INTERESTED:
Substantial early responsibility. Within six months after you join us, you will 
V be given full charge of an engineering staff position or direct responsibility 
for a production unit or department with equipment valued in excess of a 
million dollars.
Opportunity to advance, unexcelled. We promote only on a basis of merit, 
v and a good engineer can advance very fast.
^Vy Youll be in a great basic industry thats entering a period of new growth. 
Charmin engineers have already contributed outstanding breakthroughs in 
improving product qualities. We are seeking the same kind of bold thinking 
in our new hires for manufacturing and engineering management.
Experience is not necessary. Well train you.
Ay Choice of three locations: Green Bay, Wisconsin; Cheboygan, Michigan; or 
y our new plant at Mehoopany, Pennsylvania. You'll be located in the heart of 
some of the greatest hunting and fishing country in the world.
Sign up at your Placement Office now. We want to talk with you even 
though you have commitments to Graduate School or to Military Service!
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 15, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
LEWIS
'suli's-Rrpai r>
RADIO -oELECTRIC 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
PROTESTANT
WORSHIP
AT
TECH
SUNDAYS -11A.M.
39 SKIBO
Sponsored by
the Methodist Campus Ministry
W RCT 
RECITAL HALL 
1:30 p.m.Sundays
This Weeks 
Voice Recital: 
Edmonds J. Sugden 
Louise Hatch
Anthone Review
Chekhov and Shaw  
Two Masters
by Tony Lawrence
Its pleasing to find a somewhat marked improvement in the 
quality of theatre being offered this semester at the University of 
Pittsburgh. The three productions I saw last semester (Zoo Story, 
Man With The Flower In His Mouth, and The Duchess of Malfi) were 
generally less than fair. This season has, so far, been much better. The 
Friday Night Repertory Theatre presented an excellent production 
of Krapps Last Tape by Samuel Beckett. John Krich, however, was 
solely responsible for its success, with his superb acting, directing, 
and stage design.
The latest play occupying the Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre 
is George Bernard Shaws Arms and The Man. The setting is a 
small Bulgarian town in 1885 during the war. The entire action takes 
place in the home of Major Petkoff, a wealthy Russian officer who 
lives with his wife, Catherine, and daughter, Raina.
One night, while the major is alway fighting, an enemy soldier 
named Captain Bluntschi is chased through town and finds refuge 
in the Petkoff home, where Catherine and Raina decide to hide him 
until the danger passes. Several months later (Major Petkoff has 
meanwhile returned, as has Rainas fianceeMajor Sergius Saranoff) 
Captain Bluntschi comes back to return Major Petkoffs coat, lent to 
him in haste by Mrs. Petkoff. Through a series of cleverly structured 
events, Major Saranoff finds that Rainas servant girl, Louka, is a 
greener pasture than Raina. Captain Bluntschi and Raina realize 
their mutual love. When Major and Catherine Petkoff are reluctant at 
giving Rainas hand to a mere captain, he reveals himself as the 
Emperor of Switzerland. All, needless to say, live happily.
The company as a whole is quite good. Harriet Allen gave just 
the right, delightful touch to Raina. Glorianne Engel (Catherine) and 
Cathy Rennich (Louka) were equally fine. Dan Frezza, despite some 
annoying facial mannerisims and an occasional inaudibility, fitted 
well into the production as Major Petkoff. A pleasant surprise was 
Donald Flayton, whom I found unimpressive as Jerry in last semes
ters Zoo Story. He brought some of the best and most honest moments 
to the production. I heartily enjoyed James Berry as Sergius Saran
off. He has good presence and though he played Saranoff almost 
as a cliche, it worked beautifully. The costumes by Cynthia Krich 
were adequate and nothing more. The set by Robert Cothran looked 
like an accumulation from possibly ten other shows and consequently 
was ineffective.
Also on the same bill of fare is Anton Chekhovs Swan Song. The 
play is a one-act about an old intoxicated actor who reminisces about 
his past as a lover, a man, and a brilliant actor. He is discovered on 
the deserted stage by Nikita Ivanitch, a crippled prompter, who lives 
in the basement of the theatre. Ivanitch becomes the one-man aud
ience for the actors laments. Jeff Embler was convincing as the old 
actor aside from a few minor inconsistencies. I felt that the slight 
drawbacks in Mr. Emblers performance were not his fault as much 
as the directors and that Mr. Embler is a fine actor. The direction 
was done for both shows by Wandalie Henshaw. She did fairly well 
with both shows, but what I found disturbing was having her actors 
make a lot of unnecessary crosses and have them do some innocuous 
business which enhanced nothing. It seems that directors too often 
dont realize that a great play (or even a good play) does not require 
an abundance of carefully planned movement. A great play should 
be allowed to come through with the dialog. This doesnt mean 
that direction isnt needed, but a director must make a careful se
lection as to what works and what doesnt. I felt that Miss Hen
shaw did not completely fulfill this task.
Who says so?
Wa,B a DvaDv Val Sanv gLhE, ad iamg 
HInDmBl cdV ag gI,LadIvw ,Evi DaLd, Id 
IHHmBLdh Ldhvg I, MmBLdvBB IdV BIi L, IHoB 
ABaHLI HannL,nvd,lp
SaHLI HannL,nvd,T Fv wLBE ,Evi HamV 
vLBL, amg KvIgdiw Nl Jl DId,w wEvgv wv 
nIov HIMv IdV IDDIgI,mB ag iamg Bv 
,vvDEadv HanDIdil Bm, wv EIvv ,Lnv ag 
a,Evg ,EamhE,Bw a,Evg ,Ivd,Bl
WLov ,Ev BL,mI,Lad Ld dvIgMi NvwIgol
FL,E HLvLH IdV MmBLdvBB vIVvgBw wv Mv
hId MmzzLdh wL,E LVvIBl AWv,B ,vIHE ELhEvg 
BoLB ,a Banv a ,Ev md-vnDaivV IdV 
mdVvg-vnDaivVl SIiw nIHELdv BEaD DgIH
,LHvl TEvi HamV qmILi ag PaMB ,EI, Igv 
haLdh MvhhLdh  IdV EvD ,EvnBvvvB IB 
wvlp
Fv vd, amg ,aa-IdV-VLv BEaDw vvv
dLdhBl Fv amdV vamd,vvg LdB,gmH,agBl c 
HannmdL,i hgamD BHgvvdvV IDDLHId,Bl 
cda,Evg BmDDLvV EIdV ,aaBl TEv BaiB
CmM VadI,vV HIBBgaan IHLL,LvBl cda,Evg 
HanDIdi Bvd, nagv LdB,gmH,agBl
Sanv 7e ,gILdvvB vdgavVl TEvLg LdHvd
,LvvT Sv-LnDgavvnvd,l RvBm,B ,a VI,vT 
Nvw DvaDv I, Mv,,vg PaMBl HIDDLvgl
cdV ,ELB LB adi adv a VazvdB a BaHLInLdVvV DgaPvH,B I, FvB,vgd EvH,gLH DId,B 
IHgaBB ,Ev Hamd,giw wEvgv amg LgB, PaM LB 
nIoLdh HannmdLHI,LadB vqmLDnvd, ag ,Ev 
Bv SiB,vnl
Saw iam Vad, hLvv mD LVvIB wEvd iam 
hgIVmI,vl I Idi,ELdhw I, I HanDIdi Lovw 
BIiw FvB,vgd EvH,gLHw iam IVV ,a ,Evnl 
cdV L,B da, PmB, I ,Evagil I,B DgIH,LHvl 
SI,LBiLdhl Canv ad IdV LdV am,l cdV 
wI,HE I vI,EvgvV HLHEv i am, ,Ev wLdVawl
Western Electric
MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT Of THE BELL SYSTEM
Buggy Pictures
The Technical wants pictures
"Business is for the birds!"
of recent buggy races for this 
years Buggy Book. Contact Dave 
Kamons, 682-9252, or Linda Kalkman, 682-8897.
Anyone interested in working 
on next years Technical staff 
should contact Chuck Schoenfeldt, 
683-8892.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, March 15, 1967i
Education vs* the Draft
President Johnson, the House Armed Services Commit
tee, and the National Advisory Commission all have released 
reports on their recommendations for changes in the Selec
tive Service system: yet all three fail to adequately cope 
with the problems inherent in any conscription system, espe
cially in regard to education.
Only one study, that released by the House Armed Serv
ices Committee, advocates the granting of educational de
ferments to all undergraduates, and to some graduate stu
dents as is currently being done. But this fails to recognize 
that one of the major causes of unfairness in the present 
system is in the autonomy of the local boards in granting 
educational deferments. Since the local boards are autono
mous, the standards set by the Selective Service system are 
only arbitrary guidelines, subject to interpretation by local 
board members. What one board considers a basis for def Brment is not necessarily a similar basis for another draft 
board. In addition, the present guidelines formulated by 
General Hershey stipulate that an undergraduate must com
plete his degree within eight consecutive semesters (except 
architectture students, who are given ten semesters for a 
five-year program.) Hence there is no allowance for a student 
who cannot attend school full-time for financial reasons, or 
for the student who decides to transfer from one field of 
study into another, and in so doing, loses one or two semes
ters credit. The whims of the local draft boards can usurp 
a students freedom to choose.
In fact there is the prevalent attitude that everyone has 
an obligation to serve and that the only way to fulfill this 
obligation is through military service. As United States 
Congressmen Thomas B. Curtis notes: . . the draftees
and volunteers of World War II are now the decision-making 
generation in America, and their experiences are the basis 
from which current attitudes on the draft have developed 
. . . chief among these attitudes is the feeling that if I had 
to serve in the Army, then everybody else should have too 
also. . similarly, the attitude that military training is good 
for everyone ... is rooted in the experience of the World 
War II generation. This philosophy is reflected in the rec
ommendations made by President Johnson, who called for 
an end to post-graduate deferments, and the National Ad
visory Commission, who called for the ending of all educa
tional deferments.
What these two recommendations neglect is the fact 
that educated people will be the basis for our society in the 
future, not only as scientists or engineers working on de
fense or government projects but as teachers, and as artists 
and musicians who will insure the leadership of the United 
States. As a member of the Princeton Institute of Advanced 
Studies pointed out, the United States will maintain leader
ship only through education in all areas. We cannot afford 
to be half-way leaders, content to have the largest defense 
industry, but if our ideals and form of government are to 
gain acceptance, we must show leadership in all areas, such 
as in the sciences.
In these days when the words, in the national interest, 
are used only in connection with the might of the U.S. mili
tary machine, and our offensive and defensive capabilities, 
the President of the United States and other leaders have 
forgotten that the national interest must include the devel
opment of the educational and human resources that will 
develop and preserve the leadership of the country in the 
sciences, in the arts, and as a humanitarian country.
_oarnegle teoh_"TARTAN
RICHARD G. SEXTRO
_ _ Editor-In-ChiefExecutive Editor............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor........................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager............................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.,....................................................................BRUCE GELINNew* Editor......................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..................................Mark Kaminsky
Local Advertising Manager........................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager..........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ................................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor...............Dave Rodgers
Printinq Production Manager.........Harvey A. Shapiro
Circulation Managers....Jeff Parks, Jim Neumeister
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Und, Barbara TARIM
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, I. W. Seiey.
News Staff: Elain* Bearer, Tin Krtndsl, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Undo Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille Hadzgon, Chipper Monk
Sports Staff Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Coo per man, Ron 
Pinnin, George Smith, Mike Smotens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer, Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michoel Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmoyer, John M*ra, Paid Horvath, Pot Stakem, Chris. 
Hausler, Patti Uwit, Lanie London, Prod Rial.
Business Staff Gail Bchner, Ted Rees. Tom McGwire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshann, Cheron Gelber, Ginny McKelvy, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson, Nancy Youna
Editorial Board: Evan M Malhodo. 9
Advertising Staff: lohn Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, Jane Merck, Carroll Swarmer.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY
OFFICES' Sklfap Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Phone 82-4557.
Annuol Subscription Rotoi $3.00 
"d Claw Pestage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Advertising, inc.
gaSn Del Wt,l u,Lh,aSlv 
EoR di WRevasel mls HW
Nominations closed yesterday for officers and representatives of Student Govern
ment for the 1967-68 school year. The President and Vice-President of Student Govern
ment, along with delegates to Student Senate, will be elected by an all-campus ballot 
April 5 and 6.
At press time Sunday, there 
were four candidates for the 
Presidency and for the VicePresidency. Most present mem
bers of Student Government feel 
this shows a marked increase in 
interest in campus politics from 
last year, when there were three 
candidates for the Presidency, 
two for the Vice-Presidency, and 
only twenty-two nominees for 
thirty Senate seats.
Minority President Possible
The large number of candid
ates for the two executive posts 
could create a peculiar situation 
at election time, since the Stu
dent Government constitution 
specifies that, to be elected, a 
candidate need only draw a plu
rality of the votes cast. Thus, 
next years president could con
ceivably gain office by pulling 
slightly more than 25 per cent 
of the total vote.
The President of the Student 
Body, according to the constitu
tion, presides over the Execu
tive Council of SG, and has the 
power to create external commit
tees, appoint chairmen of these 
committees, appoint the Attorney 
General and Justices of the Stu
dent General Court, veto any 
legislation passed by the Senate, 
and act as the official represen
tative of the Student Body in all 
matters.
Nominees for President are 
Bob Albertson, Ron Haan, Rich 
Stafford, and Len Wanetik. Al
bertson, Haan, and Wanetik are 
all independents; Stafford is a 
member of Sigma Nu. Both Al
bertson and Wanetik are com
muters.
? Albertson, a junior in elec
trical engineering, is now a 
member of Executive Council. 
He is also working on the Spring 
Carnival Committee. He has been 
elected to Tau Beta Pi engineer
ing honorary, is corresponding 
secretary of Castle and Flag, the 
ROTC honorary; and works as a 
tour guide for the Admissions 
Office.
Albertson would like to change 
the negative attitude toward 
Student Government and get 
the campus together. To do this, 
he proposes that SG work close
ly with the Council of Frater
nity Presidents, and plans an in
crease in the number of big 
all-school events and weekends.
He is running- as a ticket 
with vice-presidential candi
date Bill Fallon. The two will 
be listed separately on the bal
lot, but would prefer to be eleced together.
? Ron Haan, a sophomore in 
Administration and Management 
Science, is chairman of the Food 
Service Committee, Chairman of 
the Parking Committee, and 
President of Welch Hall. He is 
also on Dean Browns Undergrad
uate Advisory Committee, and 
has been chairman of the General 
Campus Committee, the Library 
Committee, and the Freshman 
Advisory Committee.
Haan says he would like to 
see Student Senate become a 
powerful voice on the campus 
in all matters.
? Stafford, a junior in mathe
matics, is Chairman of the Sen
ate Finance Committee and is 
Rush Chairman and Activities 
Chairman of Sigma Nu. He wants 
to organize the entire Student 
Government into a smootherfunctioning bodyas the consti
tution provides it should be. He 
also favors some constitutional 
revision.
? Wanetik, a junior in graphic 
arts management, is a member of 
Pi Delta Epsilon journalism hon
orary, Delta Skull honorary, the 
Kiltie Band, the Pipe Corps, the 
Counter-Guerrilla Training Unit, 
and is Treasurer of Alpha Phi 
Omega service fraternity. He has 
been Advertising manager of both 
the Tartan and WRCT. Wanetik 
claims he knows the structure 
of the school, and how to get 
things done, and can bring a 
new approach to some old prob
lems.
The Vice-President of the 
Student Body presides over all 
meetings of Student Senate and 
fills in for the President when 
necessary.
Nominees for Vice-president 
are Bill Fallon, Tom Moore, 
Bob Schulman, and Mike Smolens. All are fraternity mem
bers.
? Fallon, a junior in chem
ical engineering, is a member of 
Phi Kappa Theta and has served 
two years on Student Senate. He 
is a member of the Spring Car
nival Committee, and is also in 
the American Institute of Chem
ical Engineers. He is Albertsons 
running mate, and proposes to 
make the Senate a bit more 
powerful.
? Moore, a sophomore math
major and member of Sigma Al
pha Epsilon, is a Senate repre
sentative and past chairman of 
the Tech committee. He holds 
membership in Pi Delta Epsilon 
(as former Tartan writer) and 
Scimitars, and was Vice-presi
dent of the Freshman Cabinet 
last year. Moore is quite dissat
isfied with the present Student 
Government: It should bring is
sues to the student body..............
Senate sits around and waits for
problems to come to it.............It
might be informing the students 
of what could be improved.
? Schulman, a junior in math 
and a Tau Delta Phi, is a Senate 
delegate and Co-Chairman of the 
Student Union Committee. He has 
been on the Freshman Orienta
tion Committee and has worked 
on the Carnegie Technical bug
gy magazine and on various big 
weekend committees. Schulman 
is pushing for physical improve
ments on campus, especially in 
Skibo. Concerning physical prob
lems, he says, temporary meas
ures have to be found while 
long-range plans are being pur
sued.
? Smolens, a Sigma Nu and 
also a junior math major, is a 
dorm counselor in Hamerschlag, 
a member of MDC, WRCT sports 
director, a varsity tennis player, 
and is chairman of the Buggy 
Committee for Spring Carnival
this year. He has been on the 
Food Contract Committee and
the Constitution Committee of 
Student Government.
He would like to see more stu
dent involvement in Senate and 
bring the workings of the Senate 
and the Administration into light 
on the campus.
The campaign platforms of all 
the candidates for the major of
fices will appear in next weeks 
Tartan.
Draft.. .
(Continued from page 1)
7. A study will be conducted by 
the best management experts in 
the Government in order to eval
uate the effectiveness, cost, feasi
bility of a proposal made by the 
National Advisory Commission to 
restructure the Selective Service 
System.
8. The National Commission on 
Selective Service will be contin
ued for another year to provide 
a review of the system which 
touches the lives of so many 
young Americans and their fami
lies.
9. Enlistment procedures for 
the National Guard and Reserve 
units will be strengthened to re
move inequities and to assure a 
high state of readiness for those 
units.
As soon as knowledge becomes 
available about the proposed 
changes, the University will then 
review them carefully and, if 
appropriate, express strong rec
ommendations to Washington. It 
will continue to keep the stu
dents fully informed of the fac
tual developments as the current 
re-study of the Selective Service 
progresses both in the executive 
and legislative branches of the 
federal government.
Lyric Foundation *
The Lyric Foundation for 
Traditional Poetry is offer
ing a $100 prize for the best 
original and unpublished 
poem of 32 lines or less, writ
ten in the traditional man
ner by an undergraduate stu 
dent at any American or Ca
nadian college or university.
A $50 second prize and ten 
$25 honorable mentions will 
also be awarded.
A $100 honoraium will also be 
given to the library at the college 
of the first-prize winner provided 
that the library subscribes to the 
poetry magazine, The Lyric.
 Each contestant may enter up 
to five poems. He should retain 
a copy of each, and send the 
originals no later than June 1, 
1967, to College Contest, The 
Lyric, Bremo Bluff, Va. 23022. 
The name and home address of 
the contestant, as well as the 
name and address of his college, 
must appear on each poem. Both 
addresses must include Zip Codes
Winners will be announced in 
the Fall, 1967, issue of The Lyric.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 15, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
^iiafiaiiaiiaiiiiiiHinaiiiiiiiiaiiaiiaiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiuiimniiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiaiiiiiiHiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiitaHiiiHaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuaHaiiiMaiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiHaiiiMatiiuaiiiiianftiiiiauiiiiHaiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiitaiiiiiiiiaiitiiiiiiimifaiiaiiiiiaiianiimtiiiraitiHaiiaHiiimiiiiiinaiiiiiaiiaiiaiiaiiiiiiiiauiuiiiwiantiiiiiaii^
I ______Letters to the Editor
AdministrationPlays 
Man From UNCLE
Editor, the Tartan:
Spies! Hidden microphones! 
Concealed cameras! Federal 
Agents! Adolf Hitler! What has 
this college campus come to when 
the students not only have to wor
ry about undue pressure to get 
the grade but also the admin
istrations underhanded calling 
down of the FBI on its own stu
dents. Does the administration 
have such little regard for its stu
dents that they have to sneak ar
ound playing Man from UNCLE 
instead of coming out and putting 
forth a concrete policy on its 
position. Perhaps this is an indi
cation of the kind of administra
tion that is running this institu
tion. Long Live the Police State.
Ernest Edson 
Junior, Architecture
Great Sorcerer 
Hatching Plots?
Editor, The Tartan:
A serious situation has arisen 
on our campus which I feel every 
student should be aware of. As 
is always the case when our 
rather naive-administration is in
volved no definite policy has been 
announced. I am referring to the 
schools policy towards the use 
of marajuana. Although only 
about 15 per cent of the student 
body is directly affected every 
student should be appalled at the 
mysterious methods hatched in 
Dean Swanks office.
Most private college support the 
students to the best of their abil
ity even when they do not con
done their actions. Even at Tech, 
students are protected from the 
local alcohol laws. Consider how
ever, what is being done about 
the use of pot. The school has 
undertaken its own investigation 
to find out who is involved with 
pot with the apparent intent of 
expelling all users. Dean Swank 
has lists of "suspects, micro
film taken in the snack bar, and 
secret tape recordings.
Perhaps this investigation was 
the result of mild pressuring from 
federal agents, or perhaps Tech 
isnt really the liberal school it 
pretends to be. At any rate its 
time the school made a definite 
statement of policy and announce 
the current investigation to the 
students.
In order to keep my name off 
the great sorcerer's list, I prefer 
to remain anonymous.
Student Welfare 
Vs. Good Name
Editor, The Tartan:
There have been rumors from 
many sources that there are of
ficials from the Federal Bureau 
of Narcotics combined with paid 
state detectives roaming about 
the campus. There are now sup
posed to be about six with as 
many as 20 on the way. I feel 
that this is being done without no
tice to the students, is a violation 
of privacy. In order to search 
private property, it is necesary in 
this country for the police to get 
a warrent or have the permission 
of the owner or renter. It seems to 
me that the students are being 
illegally observed and/or search
ed if they are not at least notified 
of the presence of these officials.
It is to be expected that on any 
campus there will be young adults 
experimenting with themselves by 
more or less harmful means. The 
illegality or drugs only adds to 
the pleasure in that it boasts the 
ego of the naturally protesting 
adults. It doesnt seem, however, 
entirely fair to conscientiously at
tempt to ruin the lives of these 
students with a narcotics charge 
without some attempt to warn 
them of the presence of the law, 
many times overlooked by stu
dents within the Joy Walls.
The administration seems to be 
more interested with the good 
name of the school than the edu
cation and welfare of the stu
dents. While it is well known that 
little is done to curb illegal con
sumption of alcohol, the policy 
on the use of drugs appears to be 
two-faced. They refuse to state 
Or print any official policy, and 
during a recent discussion with 
Dean Swank, I was told action 
would be taken only on push
ers. Yet the investigation seems 
to be in full swing. What do they 
say?
John Wilcox, Jr.
Freshman, Mech. E.
Tech Needs 
Drug Policy
Editor, the Tartan:
It has come to the attention of 
the students on this campus that 
the administration has embarked 
on an investigation of the use of 
marijuana and drugs by a portion 
of the student body. In the past it 
has been the practice of the ad
ministration to declare their poli
cy concerning student activities. 
Such has been the case concern
ing the consumption of liquor on 
the campus.
The students who do indulge
realize they are participating in 
activities. The fact that there is 
an investigation being conducted 
by the administration has come 
to the attention of the students 
through the grapevine. I feel it 
is only fair that the policies con
cerning drugs and marijuana on 
the part of Dean Swank be made 
known for the protection of the 
students, a few members of the 
faculty, and the name of the 
school.
Jacqueline Uytenbogaart 
4D7 Morewood Gardens
WRCT Needs 
Cornet Quality
Editor, the Tartan:
This article, like many recently 
appearing in the Tartan, concerns 
Carnegie Techs campus radio fa
cility, WRCT; its present state 
and its future.
Until two Sundays ago I was 
associated with WRCT as an an
nouncer and studio engineer, em
ploying the name John D. Rand. 
On Sunday, March 5, I resigned 
as a member of the WRCT staff 
rather abruptly following my pro
gram, Mosaic. Personal conflicts 
were the provocation for my 
resignation, but there are several 
opinions I hold about our station 
which I wish to make public.
Jeff Stayer, head of the now 
one-man (himself) jazz depart
ment of WRCT remarked in an 
article published in the last edi
tion of the Tartan, that radio 
broadcasting is a unique form of 
show busines offering a host of 
opportunities for creativity. This 
is the key to understanding the 
workings, and, moreover, the en
tire purpose of any broadcasting 
endeavor. The way this relates 
to campus radio is this; campus 
radio stations by their very ex
istence are equipped with the po
tential of providing a student 
body of widely differing tastes 
and backgrounds with program
ming which is not obtainable any
where else. By this I refer to 
complete coverage of campus 
happenings, sports and social 
events, news and programs of en
tertaining and stimulating value 
not to be found on the commer
cial radio scene. Why should a 
student with tastes tending 
towards rock and roll listen to 
a poor imitation of stations like 
KQV and WAMO, or a student 
preferring jazz be forced to ac
cept a lame substitute for WYDD 
as the only form of jazz pro
gramming available on the cam
pus station when these profession
al stations provide the latest re
leasee, top-notch announcers, and 
professional engineering? Those 
on the executive board of WRCT 
complain of a lack of listenership. It is not apparent to them
that as long as WRCT continues 
to operate its present vein of 
competing with some of the fin
est commercial markets available 
it is not going to gain popularity 
as a campus extra-curricular ac
tivity or an increase in listenership. To gain popularity as an 
extra-curricular activity, WRCT 
must welcome to its staff persons 
with as many different talents 
and abilities as there are tastes in 
its potential audience. For those 
readers not acquainted with the 
^ many skills needed to maintain 
a succesful broadcasting opera
tion, these include copy writers, 
proofreaders and typists, secre
taries, librarians, researchers, gra
phic artists, news-gathers con
struction, production, and main
tenance engineers, program pro
ducers, advertising salesmen, bus
iness personnel, and, of course, 
air personalities. To gain an in
crease in listenership WRCT must 
coordinate to the highly special
ized skills of its staff members 
to form a facility of which both 
fellow students and faculty mem
bers will be pleased to avail them
selves. This facility cannot exist 
without co-operation and under
standing of its basic purpose, two 
things which, long before my 
time, were forgotten at WRCT.
Show business is the most 
unique thing in all the world. It 
exists in and of itself. I am proud 
to say that it is my lifes work, 
but it is not always easy for 
someone not totally familiar with 
or involved in the business of en
tertainment to understand that 
while show business entertains 
the audience, the people who 
make it work (the behind-thescenes people as we are known 
by many) are not kidding around. 
Show business is exactly that; a 
busines. Its demands on time,en
ergy, and sheer natural ability 
are literally beyond the grasp of 
anyone not himself involved. Ob
viously, to pull off the kind of 
show business, not play, that I 
am suggesting WRCT should, 
takes an extremely competent 
leader. This becomes even more 
apparent when one realizes that 
because of the unusual academic 
pressure and scarceness of time 
for outside activities at Tech, a 
student leader or leaders for an 
activity such as a radio station 
would have a phenomenal task 
before him, considering the end 
product that he would be expect
ed to produce.
There has been a great deal 
of muckraking on our campus sur
rounding the recent Comet Re
port. Although a godly amount 
of superfluous personal gripes are 
contained therein I would, as a
person of some past professional 
radio experience advise every 
member of the Tech community 
to take close heed of what Mr. 
Cornet has to say. Barry Comet, 
himself a show-business person, 
may have his share of personal 
hang-ups, but so do we all, and 
they should not be allowed to cast 
a bad light upon his abilities. 
From what I have observed at 
the commercial radio stations 
where I have been employed, I 
can honestly say that the ability 
to provide a fulfilment to the 
mature individuals need for be
ing both entertained and informed 
is a natural talent, nothing more 
or less. Some people have it, and 
others dont. Barry Comet is defintely infected with such a tal
ent, and feels a need to employ 
it for its best means. If WRCT 
does not avail itself of such tal
ent, which is indeed rare, it will 
continue to be a grossly inefficient, 
unproductive conglomeration of 
little boys at play with a very 
expensive toy. I feel that this 
statement applies to the present 
stations elite of both program
ming and engineering eschelons.
Since WRCT came into exist
ence it has been, for the most 
part, self-governing. I, myself, in 
my six months at the station nev
er observed any form of direct 
faculty supervision. I have the 
utmost confidence that if Mr. 
Cornet was allowed to put his 
ideas into practice that WRCT 
would be provided with a crystalclear set of goals and standards 
of quality, which would be strict
ly enforce, in attaining the goals 
proposed. I am confident, too, 
that Mr. Comet would misuse the 
freedom entrusted to the man
agement of WRCT as the present 
staff so openly does each day. The 
present members of WRCT em
ploy the station mainly as a 
lounge, playpen, or hideaway for 
various questionable activities. If 
this presently aggregation under 
the leadership of Robert Nickau, general manager; Joseph V. 
Hupcey Jr., program director; and 
Roland G. Findlay, chief engi
neer, is allowed to continue in 
their present vein, then it would 
appear that those persons with a 
serious committment to the def
inite art of broadcasting must 
look elsewhere for a means of 
expression and an outlet for their 
creativity.
John S. Nathan 
ex-staff member,WRCT 
WRCT does have a faculty ad
visor. He is Denton Beal, Direc
tor of Public Relations.Ed.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 15, 1967
Cotogne, 6 oz., $4*50 
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 12 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50SWANK, HEW YORK - SOLE DISTRIBUTOR
Sikorsky
Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
Kitchen facilities in Woodlawn Apartments.
are different from those of men, 
that women require special 
consideration and security.
A recent survey indicates that, 
although girls are now permitted 
to live off campus, the majority 
of girls now in residence at Tech 
prefer to live in campus housing 
and plan to remain in Morewood 
Gardens next year. The survey 
also indicates that many girls do 
not want the added responsibility 
of apartment living; this will be 
major consideration in any longrange housing plans.
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER 
of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now 
for an appointment.
Tuesday, March 21
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Stratford. Conn. 
____________________LLUJ---------------------
Division of United Aircraft Corp.  An Equal Opportunity Employer
Posible Coed Apartment
With the diverse needs of the 
women in mind, long-range plans 
include the maintenance of Morewood Gardens as a dormitory for 
all who want to live in a dormi
tory. This policy will be contin
ued as long as the need for oncampus housing exists. The con
struction of a coed apartment 
building to be managed by a noncampus-affiliated firm is being 
investigated. Also under consid
eration is the construction of a 
Pen-Hellenic House which would 
accommodate all seven sororities. 
A cooperative house in which girls 
do their own cooking and cleaning 
is another possible type of hous
ing and represents the least exIcwMAwp Womens Housing Includes 
Woodlawn, Morewood Apartments
pensive type of on-campus hous
ing since the school would not be 
providing the services required in 
a dormitory.
Women will be drawing for 
rooms beginning on April 10th
the administration is trying to 
provide a variety of housing 
facilities to meet the various 
needs of the women. She stres
sed that womens housing needs
By Sue Attinson and Anne Runninger 
Carnegie Tech has announced womens housing accommodations for the 1967-68 
school year. In addition to the towers in Morewood Gardens, girls will be housed in the 
Morewood Gardens Apartments on both the first and second floors and in the Woodlawn 
Apartments, located at the corner of Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison. Junior and 
senior women with parental permission can live in off-campus housing.
and continuing through April 
21st. Apartment space will be 
reserved first, then dormitory 
rooms can be reserved. Mrs. 
Milligan has asked that any 
commuters who would like to 
move into Morewood get appli
cations and participate in room 
drawing in order to reserve 
a room. She emphasized that
there is room for any girls 
who want to live in Morewood 
if they reserve a room now.
Improvements Planed
A priority list of improvements 
for Morewood Gardens has been 
drawn up by the Dean of Wom
ens Office based upon the recom
mendations of the Association of 
Women Students. Because the 
finances involved are capital ex
penditures, they must be approv
ed and budgeted by the admin
istration.
According to plans, screens 
will be installed in A and B 
towers  eventually in the en
tire dormitoryto make living 
more comfortable for summer 
students.
New elevators, costing $35,000 
apiece, will be installedfirst in 
C, then in B or D, and finally in 
A towers. At an average cost of 
approximately $6,000 each, fifth 
floor passageways between the 
presently inaccessible towers will 
be constructed. This will permit 
students to use another towers 
elevator while their own is being 
renovated. Since elevators take 27 
weeks to order and 15 weeks to 
install, work on C tower will 
probably be completed in 1968 if 
the Administration agrees.
Possibly this summer a race
way allowing for phones in 
every room will be Installed. In 
E tower a conduit system with 
115 telephone outlets cost $5,700. 
According: to estimates, a sim
ilar system for 233 old tower 
rooms, would cost $25 more 
per outlet (or approximately 
$17,500).
The Dean of Womens Office al
so plans to recommend AWSs 
suggested partitioning of the 
basement recreation room into 
smaller study/discussion areas 
surrounding the large central 
area. In addition, it expects to 
bring in a lighting expert during 
the summer to analyze problems 
in the old towers.
en in two six-girl apartments with 
living room, dining room, three 
bedrooms, kitchen, two baths and 
utility room; three-girl apart
ments with living-dining room, 
two bedrooms, bath and kitchen; 
and three two-girl apartments 
with living-dining room, bedroom, 
kitchen, and bath. The Woodlawn 
complex will be available only 
to junior and senior women and 
will have the same regulations as 
the first floor of the E-tower 
apartments.
Increased Study Space
The Woodlawn Apartments 
should be an improvement over 
the Colonial Manor facilities. Al
though the room size is generaly
smaller, arrangements will be 
made to separate the living room 
from the rest of the suite by a 
door which should result in an 
increase in available study space.
Carpeting will be laid in Wood
lawn, but not in the Morewood 
apartments. The furniture now in 
use in Colonial Manor will be 
used in Woodlawn.
In considering womens hous
ing Mrs. Virginia Milligan, Dean 
of Women, has emphasized that
The first floor of the E-tower 
apartments will accommodate 20 
junior and senior women in twogirl apartments and one four-girl 
apartment. The apartments con
sist of a living-dining area, one 
bedroom for each two girls, a 
kitchen and bath. Male visitors 
will be allowed until 1:30 am on 
Friday and Saturday night and 
unti 12:30 other nights.
Second floor E-tower apart
ments will house 24 girls in twogirl suites consisting of a living-dining-bedroom area, kitch
en and bath. These apartments 
will be available to sophomores 
if there are not enough junior 
and senior women to fill them. 
Because no partitions will be 
erected to divide the living-bedroom area, male visitors will not 
be allowed except during open 
house.
The Woodlawn Apartments 
have accommodations for 24 wornif she doesnt give
JADE
it to you...
get it yourself!


---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 15, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 9
For Easter Vacation Travel to New York 
By Chartered Bus.
The Bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, March 22nd 
(to arrive at the Port Authority Terminal at 1:00 a.m.) and will be returning from 
Sloane House (Y.M.C.A. on 34th Street) at 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 28th 
(avoiding crowds and delays at the Terminal).
PoLe gT FL,V Be-etohv
EeL,te ToTn Il D,l,SalS
Every spring and fall, senior home economics education majors practice managing 
in the homiest laboratory at Carnegie Techthe Home Management House, 5125 Mar
garet Morrison St. (next to Donner Hall). One half-semester residence there fulfills a 
state requirement for teacher certification. At the present time five girls (four of whom 
are either engaged or married) and the advisor, Miss Patricia Tengel, are living in the
At the end of each week, each 
student files a report evaluating 
how well she personally managed 
and used resources, along with 
an evaluation of her peers and 
the group as a whole. At the conIndustries Host
pm.
Interested students and faculty 
should notify Eugene Milich, Asfrom his office a copy of the 
sistant Dean of Men, and obtain 
agenda and the list of discussion 
topics.
Write your Check to STEPHEN WEINREICH for $17.50 (Round Trip) or 
$10.00 (One Way) and Send it to BOX 250, CAMPUS MAIL
... STEVE WEINREICH, BOX 250
PH See You On The Bus!
(No refunds for cancellations after March 17, 1967)
Students, Faculty
The Greater Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce is 
sponsoring a College-Busi
ness Symposium designed to 
bring together local business
men and interested students 
and faculty. The Symposium 
is scheduled for April 6 in 
the Penn-Sheraton Hotel 
downtown from 9 am to 3:45
Tartan photo by John Mera
Home Management House on Margaret Morrison Street.
When they are living in the 
house, they have free time 
from 8 pm on each evening. 
Standard Morewood curfews 
and visiting privileges prevail.
Going To New York?
Latin-AmericanExcursion
.. for.. ;
Jewish College Students 
AGE 18-25 
26 Days in June-July 1967 ;
Chile Mexico Peru < 
Argentina. Uruguay Brazil 1
* Meet the Latin-American 
Jewish Youthl 
 Understand the problems of 
this region!
 SEE LATIN AMERICA 
Call or write:
Masada of the ZOA
The girls live in the house un
til mid-terms, then spend the 
second half of the semester stu
dent-teaching in Pittsburgh pub
lic schools. They take only one 
formal course during the semes
tercurriculum planning, which 
meets three afternoons a week 
while they are living in the 
iiouse.
meal planning, shopping, prepa
ration, and service of food; as
sistant manager, who helps the 
manager and does some of the
According to the home eco
nomics departments manual, ob
jectives of the residence are: to 
develop an understanding of the 
scope of management; to develop 
managerial competence through 
increased learning and internal
ization of the basic managerial 
concepts; and to integrate homemaking knowledge and abilities 
gained from previous courses and 
in other ways. The emphasis is 
on management as a mental pro
cessthe planning, controlling 
and evaluation of the use of re
sources for the purpose of attain
ing goals. Skills used in the pro
cess are considered secondary to 
the management.
Weekly Managerial Roles
Managerial roles are decided 
by the group residing in the 
house. The present group has es
tablished the following roles, as
signed on a weekly basis: man
ager, who is in charge of food,
car insurance savings 
for young men
If you're a man under 25, or have a son who 
is, you know what a big extra premium you pa/ 
for car insurance. Now, Sentry Insurance offers 
10% discount for young men who qualify as* 
safe drivers. (This is in addition to Sentry's 15% 
discount for driver education.
HOW TO QUALIFY
Young men under 25 qualify for the Sentry 
Preferred Youthful Driver Discount on the basis 
of a simple questionnaire that takes only about 
20 minutes. It is not a test of driving skill or 
knowledge. It is completely confidential. There 
is no penalty for young men who do not qualify 
for the extra discount.
ACT NOW
For full details about the Sentry Preferred 
Youthful Driver examination, call or drop a card 
today.
 took out for you
SENTRY. XTINSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals  Sentry Life
Tartan photo by John Mera 
The Compleat Home-Management Dinner Table
Tartan photo by John Mera
Preparing dinner for guests.
food service; hostess; laundress; 
and housekeeper. The girls find 
living and working together in 
the house, performing these roles 
to be enjoyable as well as edu
cational.
The residents are responsible 
for establishing and maintain
ing their own standards, meal 
and work schedules, as well as 
entertainment plans. The en
tertainment gives experience 
in managing and hostessing for
mal dinners, teas, and lunch
eons for fellow students, fac
ulty, parents, and friends.
The students presently living 
there find the Home Management 
House to be a pleasant, relaxed 
change from dorm life, A posi
tive vote is also given by their 
dates, who enjoy the home at
mosphere, dinners, parties, and 
frequent casual get-togethers in 
the living room with fellow stu
dents.
Mosque Chosen 
For Spring Ball
As a result of the efforts 
of Castle & Flag to present 
an all-campus Spring Ball 
rather than the traditional 
Military Ball, the ballroom 
of the Syria Mosque has been 
chosen as the location for 
this years Spring Ball to be 
help April 7.
The Mosque ballroom was
chosen for several reasons. Its 
size, more than twice that of the 
Skibo Ballroom, assures that 
dancing will be possible without 
crowding. Further, the acousti
cal qualities are superb, the low
er ceiling provides a more inti
mate atmosphere, and the ball
room lends itself readily to taste
ful decoration.
Castle & Flag has arranged for 
a shuttle bus to run from Morewood Gardens to Syria Mosque 
for those who cannot otherwise 
ride and do not care to walk. 
Trips to Chatham and Mount 
Mercy are under consideration.
145 E. 32nd Street 
New York, N. Y. 10016 
212 MU 3-9200
elusion of the experience, they 
are graded by the observations 
of the advisor on the basis of 
how well they managed.
The girls live two to a room 
in the eight room house. Those 
who otherwise live in Morewood 
have room and board payments 
transferred, while those living 
off campus pay $60 lab fee.
Sentry jjreports 
good news (at last!) abou
I SEND TO: (339)
SENTRY INSURANCE 
I 429 FOURTH AVE.
* PGH., PA. 15219
Send Me Facts On The Sentry Preferred 
Young Driver Test.
NAME..*.*.*..*AGE     
ADDRESS................................CITY.....................

---------------------------------------------------

LYRIC..........................FROM $100
A traditional solataire that is sure to please. One of our 
most graceful solataires in 18 Kt. White Gold.
World's Finest Diamond to Fit Your BudgetI 
Terms arranged.
JOHN M. kUBFRIS > SON (<
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
SINGER
DIVERSIFIED  WORLDWIDE
' * ***   r *    411 W* q +***.>**%* 4 M m <rr\A.  *wm m % we 4k   mia .w*mjr%+   +,m  rutr^f *    r-***
PLACEMENT BUREAU INTERVIEW..................Stude naprno.............................
Poge 10 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 15, 1967
Cottrell, Rubenstein 
Lecturers In Series
Tartan photo by J. C. Hausler
Just what YOUD like to be doing1
RUGS $15 to $59
1000 9x120, 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 
etc. Also furniture discounts to 40%
^, . 5432 Walnut St.ctiase s Page2P-eC
10-9 p.m. * 621-1025
Pittsburgh9s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
^xcluive at Roberts
Dr. Beekmam Cottrell, 
Head of the Department of 
Humanities and Associate 
Professor of English at Car
negie Tech, will talk on 
Guilt-Ridden, Humorless 
Genius: Ibsen, Carl Dreyer, 
Ingmar Bergman in his ser
ies of lectures The Shatter
ed Image; Something of Art 
and Life In Our Time 
Monday evening, March 20, 
8:15, at the Y.M. & W 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue, be
tween Fifth and Forbes Ave
nue, in Civic Center, 
land.
These three Scandinavians, 
geniuses though they are, 
guilt-ridden and humorless to Dr. 
Cottrell. In order to understand 
the playwright Ibsen, and the 
film creators, Carl Dreyer, 
Denmark and Ingmar Bergman 
of Sweden, one must understand 
the cold, dry Puritan inheritance 
of the Protestant Ethic, which 
lies and has lain like a heavy 
wool blanket over that area 
the world.
Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, 
author and lecturer, will talk 
on The Meaning of Money in 
his lecture series entitled Un
derstanding McLuhan  the 
Communications Media and 
Contemporary Culture on 
Wednesday evening, March 22, 
8:15 at the YM&WHA.
Money, says Dr. Rubinstein, 
is a very old medium of com
munication. It allows us to es
tablish equivalent values between 
objects which initially cannot be 
equated. The impact of money 
on human culture as well as the 
contemporary tendency to make 
money surperfluous through the 
computer and the credit card 
will be discussed.
CHECK
WITH
SINGER
The Singer Company, 
with a threefold 
sales increase in 10 years, 
to a billion dollars in 1966, 
owes much of its growth 
to diversification into business 
equipment, home entertainment, 
instrumentation, air conditioning 
and heating, and textile machinery.
This growth has generated numerous 
opportunities for Electrical, Mechanical, 
Industrial, Metallurgical and Textile Engineers, 
Physicists, Mathematicians, Computer 
Scientists and Ph.D. Psychologists. The one you 
discuss with our representative may be your own!
FRESHMAN CAMP 
APPLICATIONS
DUE FRIDAY 4:30
Tartan photo by Mark Kaminsky "Bfi Rlimrd

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 15, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN -Page 11
epairsCAMERA EXCHANGE, INC
F 3711 Forbes SvsM Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
633-2181Oaklands Only Camera Store
Syracuse University* CUlTOWES^ll *3^Epjffc' Foreign Study Program
SUMMER SESSION IN FLORENCE, ITALYJUNE 16-JULY 28
Syracuse University School of Art: courses in painting, drawing, art history 
Write for brochure:
Foreign Study Programs of Syracuse University
335 Comstock Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13210
Tartan photo by J. C. Hausier
Springtime . . . and a young mans fancy
does some pretty strange things
' v, Some young engineers
I will go through almost anything 
/ for a future with P.S.E.  G-f f
Even if you have to slay dragons, be sure to find out if you 
can qualify for our personalized training program. Engineering 
positions with Public Service offer you the opportunity to 
enjoy a career filled with excitement, reward and challenge ... a chance to grow with a dynamic growth company. 
See our representative when he visits your campus.
INTERVIEWER ON CAMPUS: APRIL 4
When you cant afford to be dull
sharpen your wits 
with NoDoz
NoDoz keep alert tablets or new chewable mints,
safe as coffee, help bring you ^
back to your mental best... help 
you become more alert to the
people and conditions around W Hooz 
you. Non-habit forming.
While studying, or after hours,sharpen your wits with NoDoz. ; *Tablets or new Chewable Mints
 PUBLIC SERVICE 
ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY 
NEW JERSEY
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ONE OF AMERICA S LARGEST AND MOST PROGRESSIVE SUPPLIERS OF ENERGY
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA
iiliiliiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiliiiiiiniiiiiitiiiiiik

---------------------------------------------------

Page 1 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 15, 1967
4 __After graduation, what?Will you begin your career as an 
engineer or scientist or return to 
school for an advanced degree?
You can do both at NOL
If you are an engineer in the top third of your class or a scientist in the top quarter of your class, NOL offers you the opportunity to begin your career in one of the worlds great laboratories and, at the same time, go ahead with your plans for graduate study.
NOL is a laboratory in the true meaning of the word, and
one of the largesi and best-equipped laboratories in the 
world. It is the nations leading R&D establishment for 
Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW), the Navys principal high 
speed aeroballistics activity, and a leader in the develop
ment of new air and surface weapons. The spectrum of 
research at NOL ranges from nuclear effects to acoustics 
to explosives and materials. At NOL, weapons development 
is carried through from inception to design to prototype 
test and development. Since 1950, NOL has completed 209 
new weapons and devices such as SUBROC, nuclear depth 
bombs, mines, projectile fuzes, underwater detection sys
tems, and components and design data for POLARIS, 
TARTAR, TALOS, TERRIER, ATLAS and TITAN missiles. A 
civilian staff of over 3,000 people includes more than 1,000 
professional engineers and scientistsexperts with na
tional and international reputations. Extensive and unique 
facilities embrace wind tunnels operating to Mach 17, 
hypervelocity ballistic ranges, the world's most exceptional 
hydroballistic facility, shock tunnels, 300g centrifuge. . . 
multi-million-dollar experimental facilities.
Here is your opportunity. Each year, NOL interviews out
standing engineering and science graduating students. 
Selects the handful that seems to be really creative. Takes 
them to its beautiful 875-acre "campus (the front yard 
is a golf course) in the rolling hills of Maryland near the 
Nations Capital. Puts them through an optional one-year 
professional development course with rotational assign
ments to various areas within the Laboratory to prepare 
them for permanent assignments.
From the very beginning, new staff members have an oppor
tunity to contribute directly to significant projects ... to 
be part of an organization where groups are small and 
emphasis is on the individual.
NOL offers you a graduate study program that is one of 
the largest and most productive programs in the country. 
Each year members of our professional staff receive M.S.s 
or Ph.D.s through this program. NOL has a significant ad
vantage in its proximity to the University of Maryland. Many 
NOL staff members hold permanent part-time positions on 
the Maryland faculty, and graduate level courses are taught 
at NOL every semester. Maryland also offers many courses 
on its own campusonly minutes awayat times which 
are convenient to and keyed to the special requirements 
of NOL
NOL ACADEMIC
sile systems, instrumentation for weapons evaluation and 
aeroballistics research, and performance of new concept 
feasibility experiments.
Chemical Engineers and Chemistsfor research and devel
opment pertaining to high-energy propellants and explo
sives; high polymers; molecular and crystal structures; 
electrochemistry; high-temperature, high-pressure chemical 
equilibrium studies; and the thermodynamics of highenergy reactions.
Engineering Physicists and Physiciststheoretical and ex
perimental research in a wide range of areas including 
signal processing, infrared radiation, acoustics, magnetic 
and semi-conductive materials, and detonation physics; 
plus weapon systems development and studies.
STUDY PROGRAMS
PROGRAMCOMPETITIONADMITTANCESUPPORT
Part-time 
Graduate Study
Open to all
qualified
employees.
Approval by 
line management.
Refund of tuition and fees if 
course grade is "B or 
better... approx. y2 time plus 
travel time for attendance.
Graduate
Work-Study
Recent college graduates 
in certain engineering & 
scientific fields.
Selected by Personnel 
Officer... admission to 
local graduate school 
for M.S.
Full salary, tuition, books & 
fees... 2 days each week 
devoted to study and classes 
for 2 years maximum.
Intermediate
Graduate
Study
Recent college graduates 
in certain engineering & 
scientific fields.
Selected by Personnel 
Officei*. . admission to 
graduate school... an 
honors program.
Full tuition, books, fees, 
travel per diem & y2 GS-7 
salary... (over $3800)... 
2 semesters full-time.
Advanced
Graduate
Study
Scientists & 
Engineers, grade 
GS-11 and above.
Selected by NOL
Training
Committee.
Full tuitioji, books, 
fees, travel, per 
diem, & full salary 
for 2 semesters.
NOL NEEDS:
Aerospace Engineers or Hydrodynamicistsdesign studies 
of high-speed, high-performance re-entry systems, basic 
problems in theoretical and experimental aerothermodynamics, aeroballistics and hydroballistics; and aerodynamic 
design and development of hypervelocity wind tunnels and 
ballistic ranges.
Mechanical Engineersconceptual design and development 
of warhead safing, arming and target-detecting devices for 
tactical and strategic missiles, underwater weapons, vehicle 
structures, and mechanical or electromechanical time and 
motion-sensing mechanisms.
Electronic Engineersdesign, development and evaluation 
of underwater communications and detection systems, 
weapons guidance systems, influence fuzing, air-borne mis
An NOL reDresentative will be on campus . . . 
APRIL 7, 1967
Contact your Placement Office for interview.
Summer Professional Employment ... for outstanding 
graduate students and graduating seniors.
U. S. IMAVAL 
ORDNANCE 
LABORATORY
WHITE OAK, MARYLAND
%
li

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 15, 1967CARNEGIE TECH TARTANPage 13
MASS-CULT
Friday Night 
With the Television
.. by Stan Thomas ..!
Last Friday night I decided to stay home, primarily to watch The 
Avengers, a British television series now being shown on ABC. Since 
this program, which I became dedicated to during the summer, did 
not come on until ten oclock, I found it necessary to watch something 
until then. Of the four prime time network shows I watched, the only 
one worth staying home for on a Friday night was the one I stayed 
home for, even though it was a Friday night.
The first part of the evening I watched the local NBC outlet, 
which began the prime-time with their version of Tarzan. The Tarzan 
of my youth only resembles the network Tarzan in name. There 
didnt seem to any Jane, and if Cheeta was around, I didnt catch 
him. Most of the hour was dedicated to a watered down version of 
the Bogart-Hepburn African Queen. The locale, however, seemed to 
be somewhere in Indochina instead of Africa. The missionary was 
Julie Harris, who finds herself alone on a river steamer with a pre
adolescent native boy instead of Humphrey Bogart.
Tarzan seemed only marginally concerned with the plot, and by 
eight-twenty there seemed to be little resolution. The episode is to be 
continued next Friday night. This seems to be the newest tactic in 
securing an audience: hooking them the first week of the series and 
then continuing stories over two or three weeks, always ending them 
in the middle of the hour. This Tarzan is aimed at the generation not 
too familiar with the Weismuller or Buster Crabbe version, and with
out going into a socio-psychological study, NBCs Tarzan, Ron Eiy, 
impresses me as a surfer somewhat out of his element, but making 
the best of things.
At eight-thirty NBC airs The Man From UNCLE, a program con
ceived during the height of the Bond-hysteria and continuing as per
haps the one real example of pop art on television. The show began 
taking itself rather seriously as a parody, but those days are over 
and its High Camp from the word go. UNCLE takes advantage of the 
madness it finds surrounding it and uses the temper of our times to 
supply an hour of twentieth-century fantasy. Last Friday night our 
heroes, Solo and Kuryakin, found it necessary to find a particular 
dress that had concealed in its pattern their rival organizations fiveyear report. Just to make sure no one gets bored along the way Sonny 
and Cher guest-starred as a frustrated dress designer and a famous 
model, one having designed the dress, the other having left it some
where. The show included enough jokes that werent really In, but 
were esoteric enough to seem hip to those who arent and Camp to 
those who are. UNCLE is perhaps the best way to waste on hour if 
you have nothing better to do.
UNCLE was followed by T.H.E. Cat, which, from its credits and 
lead-in seems a spin off from the Gary Grant character in To Catch 
a Thief. But Rogert Logia, who plays THE Catyes, that is his name, 
is not Gary Grant. The director of this series is also a long way 
from Alfred Hitchcock. At least twenty minutes of this half-hour 
program was spent watching two supposed ex-acrobats climb over 
the machinery of a power plant of a prison hospital. But when they 
werent running, they were acting. As dull as the running was, they 
were better off running. The point of the whole thing had something 
to do with a convict-who-was-once-an-acrobat barricaded inside of 
this mass of machinery with a nurse as a hostage. THE Cat, who is 
a professional- body - guard - who-was-an-ex-convict-who-was-an-acrobat 
is brought in to capture the . . . its just too silly to continue.
Finally, at ten, The Avengers. Any series that begins with the 
heroine shooting the cork off of a champagne bottle held by the hero 
deserves some recognition. The Avengers was brought in by ABC 
last spring to replace one of their faltering shows, and it continued 
during the summer. I became addicted to it this summer, but ABC 
did not include the show in their fall programing. Well, another 
show bombed, and The Avengers was brought in once again, this time 
in color, to fill the gap. The show has two continuing characters: 
Steed, who is fond of bowlers, Edwardian clothes, and antique cars; 
and Mrs. Peel, who is fond of sculpture, karate, and running around 
in a leather jump-suit.. The two are in reality Patrick McNee and 
Diana Rigg. Every week they battle villains to maintain the balance 
of the British Empire. The villains they have fought range from a 
psychotic who rules a group of women by impersonating his wife 
through a ventriloquists dummy to a man-eating plant that threatens 
to devour England.
The joy of this series is its unflinching development and the de
light it takes in setting up an absurd situation. The show is not inter
ested in parody, and although it takes itself seriously, it does not elim
inate the element of capriciousness that makes it such a delight. This 
Friday nights episode began with what looked like a fugitive from 
the Rolling Stones stalking a man with a rifle He finally kills him by 
shooting through the floor of a forestry tower that the man is standing 
on. Through the bullet holes comes a shower of bird seed. The en
siling plot involves a security leak revolving around aerial photo
graphs of a missile site. The episode, The Bird Who Knew Too Much, 
also involved a lot of carrier pigeons and a parrot by the name of 
Captain Courageous who talked on cue. Yes, the pigeons were taking 
photographs of the site with miniature cameras strapped on their 
feet. And then the villains were feeding the information to the talk
ing parrot. Preposterous? Well, maybe. But very well done.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobacco  in the City!
BRIAR BOWL
3752 Forbes St. 681-6045 
Nationally 
Advertised 
Pipes
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3911 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
* ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
Mobay is the place where young chemists can grow. As the leader in the field 
of urethane chemistry, the company offers exciting opportunities to expand 
in whatever direction you choose at the same time you apply what youve already 
learned. At Mobay, youll work in an environment characterized by a strong 
emphasis on individual ability, where you can trade ideas with talented, 
experienced associates and utilize the most advanced facilities. And you'll be 
helping to pioneer in a stimulating area whose applications have already 
multiplied to the extent that they significantly affect almost every major 
industry today. Mobay representatives will be on your campus in your 
Placement Office for talks with you on: March 21st, 1967.
PRINCIPAL AREAS OF INTEREST INCLUDE:
CHEMICAL
ENGINEERS
PROCESS ENGINEER
Conduct economic and process studies in 
existing production units; recommend and 
facilitate needed process changes; assist in 
start up of oew process equipment. (Loca
tion: New Martinsville, West Virginia)
APPLICATIONS RESEARCH
Personality suited for dealing with custom
ers in the area of cellular and non-cellular 
urethanes, polyesters and elastomers. (Loca
tion: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
PROJECT ENGINEERS
Responsible for the engineering design of 
capital additions; provide equipment speci
fications for procurement and mechanical 
design of facilities; prepare economic analy
sis; maintain cost control of projects and 
carry out special assignments. (Location: 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
CHEMISTS
Perform applications research work in coat
ings, foam applications, isocyanates and 
elastomer processes. These positions also 
entail customer service work. (Location: 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS
Design of industrial plant, electrical power 
distribution systems, controls circuits and 
lighting systems; establish maintenance 
schedules and procedures on all electrical 
equipment; conduct load surveys on existing 
power distribution systems. (Location: New 
Martinsville, West Virginia)
MECHANICAL
ENGINEERS
In applications research section, work with 
small scale precision machinery encoun
tered in the rubber and plastics industry; 
work also requires some customer-contact. 
(Location: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
SALES
REPRESENTATIVES
Any engineering degree applicable if person 
is interested in industrial sales; duties in
clude developing and maintaining direct field 
contact with potential and established cus
tomers. (Approximately one year training 
program in Pittsburgh before entering field.)
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE.
TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1967
W. E. White, Personnel Administrator
MOBAY CHEMICAL COMPANY
Penn Lincoln Parkway West 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15205
An Equal Opportunity EmployerMORcY
Fir* in Ur#rto*%# CHomistry

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, March 15, 1967
EUROPE? 
June 15 - August 17 

Air France 
$ 3 3 5 

Contact Immediately
E. C. McCREARY 
244 BH 
Ext. 474
Don Keefer .... .. Jeff Kalin . ..
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sporta Editor
The Carnegie Tech-Pitt game 
capped the end of the college 
basketball careers for four Tar
tan seniors.
Jeff Kalin ended his career as 
the second leading all-time scorer 
at Carnegie Tech. Playing as one 
of the co-captains this year, he 
turned in another typically stel
lar performance that has netted 
him two Most Valuable Player 
Awards.
Ray Burdett, a three year letterman and the other co-captain 
once again showed his outstanding 
ability on both defense and of
fense and netted him the Pitts
burgh sportswriters award for 
the outstanding college basketball 
player.
Don Keefer once again thrilled 
Tech fans with his two-handed 
dunk shot, fine ball handling, and 
outstanding jump short.
Dick Eckhardt finished his 
third season of varsity play and, 
though he did not see a lot of 
action, was one of the members 
of the strong reserve unit that 
Coach Fassinger was able to fall 
back on in the clutch.
These men have provided Tech 
basketball fans with considerable 
excitement throughout their ca
reers and their presence will be 
sorely missed in the coming sea
sons. All of us owe them a vote 
of gratitude for a job well done.
We Are Back 
In Full Operation
with a
NEW PLANT
Newest and The Most Modern 
Equipment
We Offer Our Usual Fast 
Service without Sacrificing Quality
1 HOUR DRY CLEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT SERVICE 
SAME DAY ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET 
(near Craig)
Open Daily 8 to 8 
Saturday 8 to 6
IM Review
ENGINEERS
Recent graduates and college sen- ' 
iors in chemical, civil and mechanical  
engineering.
Vacancies exist in the Pennsylvania - 
Health Department for Air Pollution , 
Control and Sanitary Engineers. Ca- - 
reer advancement opportunities are " 
EXCELLENT.
Starting salary range
$7,772 - $9,454
Poisitions are available throughout , 
the state. Fringe benefits include 15 1 
days annual leave; 15 days sick ' 
leave; 13 paid holidays.
For more information write Depart- , 
ment of Health, Division of Person- - 
net, Box 90, Harrisburg, Pennsyl- ' 
vania 17120.
Applications may be picked up at, 
any local State Employment Office. <
Residence of Distinction :
ONE ROOM Kitchenette! 
equipped, and bath, beauti-; 
fully furnished  $155. up.;
? ; 
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very; 
attractively furnished, $275. ; 
up.
? ; 
Also . . . UNFURNISHED 1 i 
and 3 ROOM APARTMENTS, : 
when available. <
? l 
FAIRFAX HOTEL j
4614 5th AVE. Phono; 621-4030 <
4
Intercollegiate Bowling
On the basis of a 4-0 forfeit 
victory over Geneva and a 1-3 
away match with Grove City on 
Saturday, Techs bowling team 
ended the season in third place 
in the Western Penn. Traveling 
League with a 17-11 record. At 
home, Tech had a 10-2 record 
while on the road they bowled 
9-7.
The Grove City match saw 
the home team take the first two 
games by 114 and 68 pins respec
tively, but Tech came back to 
take the final game and thus 
clinch third ahead of the Grovers 
who finished the season 15-13. 
The scores of the games were: 
1st 2nd 3rd Total 
CIT 837 763 834 2424
Grove City 951 831 768 2550
This Saturday Tech, along with 
St. Vincent and Pitt who tied 
for first wth 21-7 records, will 
meet in a 3-game total pin roll
off to determine the champion of 
the WPTL. League champion 
will then represent the district in 
the National Intercollegiate Bowlling Association.
Intramural Water Polo
Atlantic League
All games having been finished 
two weeks ago, final league stand
ings are below.
TeamWL
ATO A60
SN White51
BSR42
PKT24
DTD23
DU14
Grad Nads05
Pacific League
In the replay of a tie game 
played earlier in the season, BTP 
whipped GSIA last Saturday 5-0. 
The victory gave the Betas 
first place in the League while
... Ray Burdett.
Tartan Rifle Team 
Competes At Annapolis
Carnegie Techs championship rifle team will compete 
in the National Rifle Associations annual intercollegiate sec
tional matches at Annapolis, Maryland, March 18, having 
won the Western Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Rifle League 
title with a 15-victory, 1-loss record.
Tech shooters compiled a 17-2 
overall record, losing to only to 
Clarion State College  by one 
point  in league competition, 
and to Penn State.
The squad was invited to the 
NRA match in Annapolis to face 
the U.S. Naval Academy team 
and one other opponent sifter de
feating each of the following 
teams twice during the season: 
The University of Pittsburgh, 
Washington & Jefferson College, 
Geneva College, Allegheny Col
lege, Indiana State University (of 
Pennsylvania), St. Francis Col
lege, and Duquesne University.
Tech also defeated Clarion and 
the Pennsylvania Military Col
lege one each, and outshot Indi
ana a third time in a non-league 
match.
Leading the teams scoring was 
Richard Damberg, with a, 280.6 
shooting average. Team Captain 
Damberg is a senior in mechanic
al engineering from Westbury, 
N. Y.
Other top scorers for Tech 
were Theodore E. Mankovich, a 
junior in electrical engineering 
from Latrobe, Pa., who averaged 
280.2; Bruce G. McKelvey, a 
sophomore in civil engineering 
from Atlanta, Ga., who averaged
277.8, and Frederick F. Klein, a 
senior in mechanical engineering 
from Niles, Ohio, who averaged
276.9.
Techs team is coached by 
M/Sgt. Donald B. Huveldt, an 
instructor in the schools Reserve 
Officer Training Corps program.
Here are the 
March 11.
standings in
TDP ended up insecond. Final
standings are:
TeamW L
BTP5 0
TDP5 1
GSIA4 2
PKA2 4
ATO B1 3
SAE1 4
SN Gold0 4
In the playoffs, BTP will meet 
SN White, while TDP faces 
ATO A. The winners of these 
games will then meet to deter
mine the championship.
Intramural Foul Shooting
Holding on to a first day lead 
of nine baskets, BTP squeeked 
out a four basket victory over 
BSR to win the foul shooting 
championship. After shooting 205 
out of 250 the first day, the Betas 
slipped to 177 in the final round 
but led by Barbins 46-40, held 
on to win with 382.
the IM Bridge competition as of
Spade LeagueWon Lost
Grad Nads20
TDP20
GSIA S1.1
PKA A00
PKT Gold02
ATO J02
Heart LeagueWon Lost
The Mont20
PKA B10
EJ Blue11
ATO C11
DU pledge12
GSIA C0]
PKT white01
Diamond LeagueWon Lost
ATO A20
DU Active21
DTD B21
GSIA G11
PKT Purple11
ATO D12
SN02
