
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54  NUMBER 13 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1962
Arts and Crafts Center Names 
Robert Lepper 44Artist of Year
Robert L. Lepper, professor of painting, design, and 
sculpture, at Tech was presented as Artist of the Year by 
the board of directors at the Arts and Chafts Center on 
Saturday, January 6.
He was selected by the board 
for distinguished work in his field 
and for his contributions to the 
cultural growth of the city.
Mr. Lepper has gained con
siderable recognition for his in
ventions in metallic sculpture 
and acrylic resin. His major com
missions include works at West 
Virginia University, G.S.I.A. here 
at rI>jh, the Pittsburgh Hilton 
Hotel, Chil'drens Hospital of 
Pittsburgh, and the airport in 
Charleston, West Virginia.
An exhibition of Mr. Leppers 
unique works opened January 7 
at the Arts and Crafts Center.
The exhibit, entitled Inventions 
in Painting and Sculpture will 
feature sculptures and reliefs in 
mixed metals, aluminum, acrylic 
resin, and wood, and painting on 
acrylic resin and in oil and 
valspar.
A native of Pittsburgh, ProRobert L. Lepper
fessor Lepper received his B.A. 
from Tech and has been on the 
Carnegie faculty since 1930.
Canjar Succeeds Sliatz In E&S; 
Appointed Associate Dean
Lawrence Canjar
$31,000 Awarded 
i'o (1IT Professors 
I or Research Use
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy has recently received two 
grants totaling more than $31,000 
from the National Institutes of 
1 Health. A grant of $27,887 was 
awarded to G. W. Penny, George 
Washington Professor of Electrical 
Engineering, for his study of Ad
hesion of Dust and Precipitator 
Efficiency. The remaining $3,600 
was awarded to Duane T. Maun
der, head and associate professor 
of the department of biological 
sciences, for his research on 
 Sporulation of Clostridium Thermosaccharolyticum.
^ The National Science Founda
tion awarded J. M. Radcliffe, as
sistant professor of physics, a 
giant of $14,800 for his studies in 
 Solid State Theory. The United 
States teel Corporation has 
awarded Carnegie Tech $2,920 for 
research on Self-Diffusion of 
Oxygen in Molten Slags. The 
^tudy will be conducted by Paul 
Grieveson, assistant professor of 
Metallurgical engineering.L
Lawrence N. Canjar has been 
appointed associate dean of the 
College of Engineering and Sci
ence at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Professor Canjar 
succeeds Edward R. Schatz who 
was recently named to fill a newly 
established position as dean of re
search. The appointment becomes 
effective immediately.
Dr. Canjar received his B.S., 
and D.Sc. degrees from Carnegie 
Tech and joined the faculty im
mediately upon completion of his 
graduate work in 1951. He served 
for three years as an assistant 
professor of chemical engineering 
and from 1954-59 as an associate 
professor. In 1959, Dr. Canjar re
ceived the rank of professor.
From 1952 to 1960 he was a 
part-time consulting chemical en
gineer on the Carnegie Tech - 
American Petroleum Institute 
project and is the principal in
vestigator on National Science 
Foundation, Air Force, and Amer
ican Chemical Society research 
projects at Carnegie. Dr. Canjar 
is a 1956 recipient of the Carnegie 
Teaching Award for excellence 
of teaching.
A prolific author, he has con
tributed approximately forty ar
ticles to many leading profession
al journals. Dr. Canjar holds 
memberships in the American 
Chemical Society, the American 
Institute of Chemical Engineers, 
and the American Society for En
gineering Education. He has also 
done much consulting work for 
various companies.
Aid Applications 
Now Available 
For 1962-63
The Financial Aid Office has an
nounced a standardized applica
tion for all types of financial as
sistance during the 1962-63 aca
demic year. All students, includ
ing present freshmen, who antici
pate the need of assistance for 
next year are urged to pick up an 
application as soon as possible.
In the past only students desir
ing consideration for a scholarship 
have been asked to submit this 
Parents Confidential Statement. 
Due to the increasing size of the 
financial aid program and greater 
student needs at Carnegie, the 
Committee on Financial Aid has 
modified the Parents Confidential 
Statement in order to make it ap
plicable as a one form applica
tion for all types of financial aid.
The Committee feels that with 
this new system it can provide 
a more accurate determination of 
student needs and therefore a bet
ter judgment as to the types of as
sistance necessary in each individ
ual case.
Applications are now available 
in the Financial Aid Office (A. H. 
150) and in the ffice of the Dean 
of Women (A. H. 148). These 
forms are due in the Financial 
Aid Office by March 15, 1962.
CFP Formal Features 
Buddy Morrow Band
The Buddy Morrow Band along with singer Carol Knight 
will be featured at the Council of Fraternity Presidents 
Dance, Saturday, Janury 13 from 9:00-1:00 at the Syria 
Mosque.
Buddy Morrow and his orches
tra is one of the few band at
tractions to become a big drawing 
card in hotels, supper clubs, radio, 
television and records in the last 
few years.
Organized in 1951 the Morrow 
orchestra is also in greater de
mand for college dances and 
proms than any other band in the 
land. Their recordings of Night 
Train, One Mint Julep, and 
I Dont Know, and their al
bums. Golden Trombones,
Tribute To A Sentimental Gentle
man, and The Big Beat have 
been high on the best seller lists.
Buddy Morrow himself has been 
playing for dance bands since he 
was thirteen. He was featured 
with such great bands as Tommy 
Dorsey, Artie Shaw, and Jimmy 
Dorsey before forming his own 
band in 1951. Less than one year 
later, he gained fame with his 
band recording of Night Train.
Buddy Morrow
Engineering Relation to Science 
Basis of New E&S Subject
Students interested in engineering and science, and 
eligible to take an overload, may register for a subject that 
will be presented at Carnegie Tech for the first time during 
--------------------------------------------------?the second semester.
There will be a regular meeting 
of Student Congress on Wednes
day, January 10 at 4:30 p.m. in 
the Wherrett Lounge of Skibo. It 
is the first meeting of the year 
and also the last meeting of the 
semester, so all members are ex
pected to be present.
Pershing Rifles 
To drown Queen 
At Annual Dance
As a climax to its first semes
ter activities, Pershing Rifles 
Company A-5 or Carnegie Tech 
will hold its annual Winter Dance 
or. the 13th of January. The 
dance will be held in Skibo Ball
room from 8:30 to 12:00 p.m. Dur
ing intermission the Company 
Sponsor for the past year, Honor
ary Captain Phylis Fustanio, will 
crown the new queen for the com
ing year. Queen candidates are 
Miss Ellie Denberg, Miss Jean 
Jacobs, and Miss Arlene Winner. 
Following the. crowning of the 
new Company Sponsor, the fol
lowing pledges will receive their 
fourrageres: David M. Adams, Da
vid F. Bernstein, Richard Blacker, 
Erroll B. Davis, Richard H. Davis, 
Daniel J. Drucker, John L. Gil
mer, Erwin Hamel, William Heley, Robert R. Maillart, Louis D. 
Naman, Thomas E. OConnell, Jo
seph F. O Grady, Jack E. Pevenstein, Justin Polulock, David H. 
Priest, Charles W. Reeder, Luther 
S. Stevens, Robert S. Stone, Ed
ward L. Wiehe. They will provide 
an honor guarci for the queen and 
her attendants. The band for the 
dance will be provided by Don 
Felix, and refreshments will be 
served. Tickets are being sold by 
members of Pershing Rifles
Phi Kappa Phi 
Initiates 23 
This Tuesday
The initiation of students into 
the Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society 
will take place on Tuesday, Jan
uary 16. Membership in Phi Kap
pa Phi is awarded in honor of 
outstanding academic achievement 
in all branches of learning: Sci
ence, Engineering, the Fine Arts 
and the Humanities. Those who 
have been invited to membership 
at the present time are:
Abrams, Marshall David 
Ayres, David John 
Babcock, Beverly Jean 
Bochner, Melvin Simon 
Carlson, William H.
Clevenger, Michael Dale 
Cornell, Darrell Colbourn 
Dann, James John 
Davis, Nan Hohenstein 
Erickson, Harold Paul 
Hall, Michael Perkins 
Houck, James Richard 
Layland, James William 
Libenschek, Rudolph Steven 
Lomakin, Judith Ann 
Magee, Christopher L.
Pollock. E. Kears 
Prattis, Patricia Adrienne 
Ring. Alice Kee 
Volas, Barbara 
Weaver, John Vance 
Wurtzel, Stuart Bruce 
Zakrzewski, Jon 
Following the initiation there
, ! will be a public address iven Lvconversion the flow of heat nr H M To given oyJJr- George H. M. Lawrence, Di- and of electncal energy. | rector of the Hunt Botanical Li6. Computational methods and brary and a recognized authority
the analysis of data. on horticulture and botany. His
7. Introduction to Engineering subject, Research at The Hunt 
Materials and their resistance i Botanical Library, promises to
This subject, which is designed 
to explain the relation of engi
neering to science and the nature 
of engineering problems and their 
solution, will be presented by 
Professor M. C. Shaw, Head of 
the Department of Mechanical En
gineering. Details of material to 
be covered are given in the fol
lowing outline of the subject.
E-500 Introduction to Engineer
ing, Second Semester, 6 units
1. The relation of engineering to 
science and other areas of hu
man endeavor.
2. Principles of dimensional an
alysis and of similitude  the 
design of engineering models.
3. The desigr of experiments and 
of apparatus.
4. The flow of fluids.
5. Introduction to energy and its
to deformation and rupture.
8. Economic considerations.
9. Engineering research.
Two lectures with demonstra
tions will be presented each week 
and two texts will be used:
1. Dialogue Concerning Two New 
Sciences by Galileo Galilei, 
first published in 1636 (Dover 
paperback translation by Crow 
and DeSalvo, 1914, $1.65).
2. Special notes to be distributed 
in the classroom.
The grade will be based on two
and will be on sale in the snack one hour quizzes and there will 
bar in Skibo. j be no final examination.
be of great interest to members of 
the campus community and par
ticularly to students who are in
volved in studies in other fields. 
This occasion offers an opportunity 
to learr of the research poten
tialities of this most recent and 
important acquisition of Carnegie 
Tech. All who have seen the li
brary recognize its beauty and 
many will like to learn of its 
usefulness as well' All who are 
interested are invited to hear the 
address in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo, at seven o'clock on the 
evening of Tuesday, January 15.

---------------------------------------------------

Fa* 2  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 10, 1962
They all mean FREE. Cuffo. On tic. Like personal checking accounts at 
Union National Bank, if you keep a $200 minimum balance. No charge for 
checks. No service charge. No maintenance charge. Save a dime on every 
check you write and buy a cup of coffee with it. Write two checks, buy two 
coffees, and so on. The Oakland office of Union National Bank is just a 
step from the campusat 4612 Forbes Ave., just off Craig. Step over today 
and open your free personal checking account.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
Student Parking
Second semester it will again be necessary for all cars 
parking in Carnegie Tech parking lot to have parking per
mits. Applications for these permits for both graduate and 
undergraduate students are now available in Dr. Stricks 
office, Skibo 103. All students who desire to park in school 
owned lots must apply whether they now have permits or 
not. Special arrangements have been made for students 
traveling in car pools to have permits which will be trans
ferable within the cars making up the pool. All applications 
must be returned to Dr. Strickss office no later than Monday, 
January 29, 1962. Students who will have received permits 
will be notified during registration.
bi-centenary that we will scarcely have time to be writing 
papers and letters and like that.
Another clever little trick to fix the year 1962 in your mind 
is to remember that 19(52 spelled backwards is 2691. ^ear 
spelled backwards is' raev. Marlboro spelled backwards is 
oroblram. Marlboro smoked backwards is no fun at all. 
Kindly do not light the filter. What you do is put the filter end 
in your lips, then light the tobacco end, then draw, and then 
find out what pleasure, what joy, what rapture serene it is to 
smoke the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste. In 1962, as 
in once and future years, youll get a lot to like in a Marlboro  
available in soft pack and flip-top box in all 50 states and 
'Duluth.
But I digress. We were shaking of the memorable aspects 
of 1962 and high among them, of course, is the fact that in 
1962 the entire House of Representatives stands for election. 
There will, no doubt, be many lively and interesting contests, 
but none, Ill wager, quite so lively and interesting as the one 
in my own district where the leading candidate is none other 
than Chester A. Arthur!
Mr. Arthur, incidentally, is not the first ex-president to come 
out of retirement and run for the House of Representatives. 
John Quincy Adams was the first. Mr. Adams also holds 
another distinction: he was the first son of a president ever to 
serve as president. It is true that Martin Van Burens son, 
Walter Blinky Van Buren, was at one time offered'the nomi
nation for the presidency, but he, alas, had already accepted 
a bid to Income Mad Ludwig of Bavaria. James K. Polks son, 
on the other hand, became Salmon P. Chase. Millard. Fill
mores son went into air conditioniJig. This later was known as 
the Missouri Compromise. # wea HHeHwaaww
  
In Missouri, or anywhere else, there is no compromise with 
quality in Marlboro or the new untllt-ered king-size Philip 
Morris Commander. The Commander does something new 
in cigarette makinggently vacuum cleans the tobacco for 
flacor and mildness. (Jet aboard! iou'll be welcome.
BULLETIN BOARD jJ
Training for Violence
Training for Violence con
tinues the Emerson Clubs new 
series, Dimensions of Man, this 
Sunday evening at 6:45. Dr. 
Arnold Buss, Associate Professor 
of Psychology at Pitt, will com
ment on ways we control and use 
violent impulses. Emerson Club 
meets for dinner ($0.75) in the 
Schweitzer Room of the First 
Unitarian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues, at 5:30. The 
free program begins about 6:45. 
Come and share your latent con
victions.
Fashion Fellowships
Four full-tuition fellowships at 
the Tobe - Coburn School for 
Fashion Careers, New York City, 
may be awarded to senior wom
en graduating in 1962. Senior 
women interested in the fellow
ships should contact the Tartan 
office.
Winter Dance
Pershing Rifles is holding its 
Winter Dance January 13, in the 
Skibo Ballroom from 8:30 p.m. to 
12:30 a.m. The semi-formal, which 
is two dollars per couple, will in
clude a band and refreshments.
On CampuswithMaxShulman
Flight to Paris
CITS SPECIAL FLIGHT.
Destination: Paris.
Departure: Pittsburgh, Pa.
When: July 18, 1962, to August 
30, 1952.
Cost: $306 Round-trip.
Who: Faculty, all non-academic 
employees, all full-time day and 
evening students and/or their im
mediate families are eligible.
Contact: Mr. A. Huber, Car
negie Tech Travel Office, Admin
istration Hall 246-B 9 a.m.11 
a.m., Monday through Friday.
Youngsters Enjoy Party at Sigma Nil
Santa was generous to thirty-two children from the Soho Settle
ment Center w'ho visited the Sigma Nu House. Besides the gifts, 
they were treated to ice cream, refreshments and a round of movie 
cartoons, but the highlight of the evening came when the kids  
ranging from seven to ten years of age  
their dates some new versions o"f the twist.
TARQUANS
Tarquans, Techs synchronized 
swim club, wall hold practices and 
tryouts at the Tech pool from 7-9 
p.m. on Tuesday, January 9, 
Tuesday, January 16, Tuesday, 
] February 13, and Monday, Feb
ruary 19. Anyone who is interest\ ed in joining is welcome. It is 
1 not necessary for one to know any 
stunts as they will be taught at 
the practice sessions. Practice for 
the numbers in the show will bei gin on Tuesday, February 27. 
There will be a meeting for all 
taught the bi others and those interested in writing num1 bers on Wed., Jan. 17, at 4:30 p.m.
(Author of Rally Round The Flag, Boys, The Many Lotes of Dobie G ill is", etc.)
RING IN THE NEW
Are you still writing 1961 on your papers and letters? I'll 
bet you are, you scamps! But I am not one to be harsh with 
those who forget we are in a new jear, for I myself have long 
been guilty of the same lapse. In fact, in my senior year at 
college, I wrote 1873 on my papers until nearly November of 
1874! (It turned out, incidentally, not to be such a serious 
error because, as we all know, 1874 was later rejiealed by 
President Chester A. Arthur in a fit of pique over the Black 
Tom Explosion. And, as we all know, Mr. Arthur later came 
to regret his hasty action. Who does not recall that famous 
meeting between Mr. Arthur and Louis Napoleon when Mr. 
Arthur said, Lou, I wish I hadnt of repealed 1874. Where
upon the French emperor made his immortal rejoinder, Tipi 
que nous et tyler tu. Well sir, they had many a good laugh 
about that, as you can imagine.)
But I digress. How can we remember to write 1962 on our 
papers and letters? Well sir, the best way is to find something 
memorable about 1962, something unique to fix it firmly in 
your mind. Happily, this is very simple because, as we all know, 
1962 is the first year in history that is divisible by 2, by 4, and 
by 7. Take a pencil and try it: 1962 divided by 2 is 981; 1962 
divided by 4 is 490-1 /2; 1962 divided by 7 is 280-2/7.Tliis mathe
matical curiosity will not occur again until the year 2079, but 
we will all be so busy then celebrating the Chester A. Arthur
MEMBER F D I C.

---------------------------------------------------

Tareyton AJV 
delivers L/t/i/ the flavor ^mg
DVAL FILTER DOES IT!
ACTIVATED CHARCOAL 
INNER FILTER
PURE WHITE 
OUTER FILTER
Tech Professor Chosen 
Member of Book Jury
Jack W. Stauffacher, assistant professor of graphic arts 
and director of the laboratory press at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, has been selected as a member of the jury to 
deside the Fifty Books of the Year competition for 1961.
The jury, consisting of designJack Stauffacher
Scotch n Soda 
Jobs Available 
On Viv Crew
As Viv, the 1962 version of 
Scotch n Soda, is being whipped 
into shape, the board makes a call 
for several jobs. Of the almost 
forty crew heads, the following 
are still open:
Technical Director, Set Design
er, Costume Designer, Lighting 
Director, Assistant Director, 
Choreographer, Two Assistant 
Stage Managers, Draftsman, Con
struction Crew Head, Prop Crew 
Head, Official Photographer, Pro
gram Designer, Lobby Designer, 
Rehearsal Pianists, Choral Direc
tor.
Anyone interested is ask
ed to write to Joshua White, Tech
nical Adviser via Scotch n Soda, 
Campus Mail Box 258, or call 
MU. 1-0793. Applications must be 
made by January 19.
President Stu Warshawsky has 
also announced that auditions for 
the many singing, dancing, and 
acting parts have been scheduled. 
Open auditions will be held on 
the Saturday afternoons of Feb
ruary 10 and 17.
er Noel Martin, Bert Clarke, of 
Clarke & Way, Inc., and Mr. 
Stauffacher will select fifty books 
which, in their opinion, represent 
the highest, standard of design and 
production consistent with pur
pose and price. The competition 
is sponsored by the American In
stitute of Graphic Arts and is in 
its fortieth year.
The Fifty Books of the Year 
will be exhibited in all parts of 
the United States in libraries, 
museums, and universities and in 
other countries in international 
book exhibitions and cultural cen
ters maintained by the American 
government throughout the world.
Professor Stauffacher has been 
at Carnegie Tech since 1958. In 
1959, the American Institute of 
Graphic Arts selected two of his 
books for showing in the Fifty 
Best Books of the Last Ten Years 
in Moscow. He has been in the de
sign and typography field since 
1940 when he became proprietor 
of the Greenwood Press in San 
Francisco. He recently was nam
ed director of Carnegie Techs lab
oratory press which has been re
established after twenty-six years 
of inactivity.
Drama Students 
Present Comedy
Physician For Fools, an orig
inal comedy written by Ken 
Cameron will be presented by the 
drama department at 8:15 from 
January 13 through January 23. 
Set in early 16th century England, 
the comedy explores the futile at
tempt of a physician to live a 
hermit's life. Directed by Lawr
ence Carra, the play carries a cast 
which alternates nightly.
Appearing successively as the 
physician will be Frank Con
verse and Frank Parker. Rene 
Auberjois and Peter Nevard will 
play the scoundrel. Madame 
Baupre will be acted by Toiann 
Matchinga and Jean Peters.
The play has been given twice 
before: in 1959 at the Margo Jones 
Theatre in Dallas, Texas and in 
1960 at the Omaha Playhouse, 
Omaha, Nebraska. The play
wright, Ken Cameron, is the RCANBC fellow in the Drama De
partment this year.
Art Exhibit At Tech Features Oils
Twenty-one works (twenty oils 
and one drawing) of ten outstand
ing Los Angeles artists will be 
shown at the Hewlett Gallery, 
College of Fine Arts, Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, through 
January 19.
The show features six works by 
famous artist Edgar Ewing. Oth
ers represented include Inez 
Johnston, Leonard Edmondson, 
Douglas McClellan, Robert George,
Jack Zajac, Robert Frame, Rich
ard Haines, Karl Benjamin, and 
Dan Lutz.
Three of these painters, Ewing, 
Johnston, and Edmondson have 
been in previous Internationals at 
the Carnegie Institute. The works 
in the show range from two 
hard-edge paintings by Ben
jamin to the soft expressionism of 
Lutz.
Seniors Urged 
To Attend Speech 
On Interviewing
Charles L. Tucker will discuss 
The Technique of Being Inter
viewed, Wednesday, January 17, 
at 4:30 p.m. in Porter Hall. Dean 
Teare, of the Collegp of Engineer
ing and Science, and Mr. Ryan, 
head of Techs placement service, 
strongly recommend that all E&S 
seniors and interested juniors at
tend.
Mr. Tucker is head of the Soap 
Equipment Department of Proctor 
and Gamble and, by virtue of his 
position, interviews a great num
ber of college seniors yearly. 
Since he is thoroughly versed in 
interviewing procedures, his 
speech should prove both inter
esting and beneficial to everyone 
who attends.
Mr. Tucker graduated from Co
lumbia College and Columbia 
School of Engineering. He receiv
ed a B.A. degree in 1949 and a 
B.S. in Mechanical Engineering 
in 1950. He is currently respon
sible for the design of all equip
ment and processes associated 
with non-edible product lines, ex
cept paper products, at Proctor 
and Gamble.
Mr. Tuckers speech is very 
timely since the interviewing sea
son is just around the corner. All 
seniors are urged to attend.
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA 
Subtle Sounds for 
Swingin' People
JA 1-8384
For Shoes See   WALL VS
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Niffht till 9 P.M.
Has Your Dormitory or Fraternity 
Made Arrangements For Its 
Discussion Group In the Campus 
Conference For Religion?
Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!*
says Julius (Cookie) Quintus, ace javelin man and 
B.M.A.C. (Big Man Around Coliseum). A Tareyton would 
even make Mars mellow, says Cookie. Tarey tons a rara 
avis among cigarettes. Its one filter cigarette that really 
delivers de gustibus. Pick up a pack today and youll find 
theres Pliny of pleasure in Tareyton.
DUAL FILTERTareyton
JVoAuttf it mr mUk
Wednesday, January 10. 192  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page I

---------------------------------------------------

Pag? 4  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January JO, 1962
EditorialGuest Editorial
Students Lose Sight Of Education Please Take Your Dirty Dishes
On the front page of the Tartan today 
there appears a description of a new course 
being offered by the school of Engineering 
and Science. Interested students are en
couraged to take this course as an elective 
or overload. This, in addition to an elective 
offered for freshmen last semester, their first 
semester at Tech, seems to indicate a new 
trend in the educational policy of Carnegie 
Tech.
It was not long ago that freshmen and 
most students were discouraged from taking 
any overload in their schedules especially 
during the first semester. But it seems that 
Carnegie Tech, along with schools and col
leges across the nation, is realizing that a 
student can do more work than is generally 
required of him and that he not only can but 
must do more if he is to keep up with the 
increasingly high standards required in an 
extremely competitive world.
However, the importance of elective 
courses is greater than simply providing an 
opportunity to increase the students compe
tence in his chosen field. Electives in areas 
of study outside the vocational area of the 
student can provide a fascinating insight into 
other worlds and a broadening of knowledge 
which will prove invaluable in the students 
enjoyment of an interesting and varied life 
intellectually.
Carnegie Tech has been one of the leaders 
in encouraging and requiring courses in the 
humanities and social sciences for students 
of Engineering and Science. Juniors and 
seniors, especially, are given a wide variety 
of Social Relations courses from which to
choose electives. But, what is the reaction of 
the Carnegie Tech student to such an op
portunity?
Seniors, in particular, are renowned for 
developing that peculiar quirk of expecting 
and wanting courses which require very 
little effort. Many have completed most of 
the courses required in their major area and 
are looking for electives. The most enticing 
quality an elective can have, it seems, is that 
it be easy either in material studied or in 
the reputation of the instructor as a grader.
There, is definitely something lacking 
from the education of students when they 
search for the easy elective rather than for 
the interesting one. Unfortunately this 
phenomenon is not limited to seniors. But, 
the seniors are most noticeable as they now 
begin scheduling for their final semester. It 
certainly shows that most seniors have not 
yet developed that desire to learn which 
expands beyond a specific area of study, but 
are more interested in getting through and 
out!
Perhaps seniors should reconsider their 
aims for the coming semester and search for 
electives which will develop their interests, 
present or latent, beyond what they now are. 
For next year at this time they will no 
longer have the opportunity to study history, 
literature, sociology, drama or a science un
der a competent professor as they have here 
at Tech during the coming semester. And it 
is hoped that in a few years, with the in
creasing emphasis placed on electives by the 
various schools, that the number of seniors 
seeking the easy elective will have dimin
ished along with any such electives.
Advanced Placement Discussed
If you are preparing to teach 
on the secondary school level, 
or if you retain any interest in 
high schools at all, perhaps re
membering your own in partic
ular, the big change that is com
ing over them will probably sur
prise and interest you. More and 
more high schools across the 
country are sending their grad
uates on to college with as many 
as two or three academic courses 
already crossed off the list. This 
has been made possible through 
a special program undertaken 
by the College Entrance Exami
nation Board. The main object of 
the program is to bring high 
schools and colleges closer to
gether as well as to cut down 
wasteful repetition in college of 
high-school material.
AP Exams 
The School and College 
Study of Admission with Ad
vanced Standing, begun in 1953, 
found that many high school 
students were well able to cope 
with certain college freshman 
and sophomore courses. As a re
sult, a national program was set 
up whereby colleges could place 
in advanced courses students 
who had passed a standard na
tion-wide exam in these given 
subjects. If a student takes an 
AP (Advanced Placement) 
course in American History, for 
example, while he is still in high 
school, and passes the special 
exam formulated by the College 
Entrance committee, his college 
is likely to cancel out his U.S. 
history requirement. Actually, a 
student may learn his material 
in any wray that is feasible. An 
AP course may not even be 
offered in his high school; it is 
not a stipulation for the privi
lege of taking the examination.
A students chances of passing 
the exam are 
course, if he h 
of a high schc 
geared toward 
of material covi 
This is one of the reasons why 
Carnegie Tech,, in the persons of 
Dr. Edwin Fenton and Dr. Ro
bert C. Slack, has become so
much better, of 
as the advantage 
ol course that is 
the wide ranges 
sred by the exam.
By Lynne Pasternak
closely attached to the Pitts
burgh program. (Tech shares 
with Taylor-Allderdice high 
school a teacher-exchange pro
gram which was organized with 
the improvement of their schools 
AP courses in mind.)
Professors Involved
In 1958, when Dr. Fenton and 
Dr. Paul Ward (then head of 
the History Department) went to 
the conference that gave Car
negies interest in Advanced 
Placement its first impetus, there 
were no AP courses offered in 
Pittsburgh high schools, with 
the exception of a few scattered 
ones at Taylor-Allderdice and 
Mt. Lebanon. This particular 
conference was the College 
Boards yearly A.P. history con
ference held at De Pauw Uni
versity in June, 1958. They had 
gone upon a recommendation of 
this gathering as an excellent 
place in which to bone up on top 
teaching methods from all over 
the United States.
At the conterences, their in
terest was so stirred that with 
the help of Professors Robert C. 
Slack and William M. Schutte, 
who volunteered to teach AP 
English, they talked our ad
ministration into carrying out 
this teacher-exchange program 
with Taylor-Allderdice high 
school.
Program In Action
Since this exchange plan was 
put through against the will of 
most of the faculty, whose op
inion of high school teaching 
was not very commendatory, the 
program practically had to guar
antee A-l results to escape 
criticism. A period of exhaustive 
meetings and sessions began, in 
which syllabi and reading ma
terials for the history and En
glish courses were selected. 
These meetings tended to be ex
haustive because Allderdice and 
Tech faculties did not always 
agree on every point, and i+ often 
required some time and mutual 
adaptive effort before matters 
were settled. At last the course 
routes were set up, and several 
general stipulations were also
tagged on: Every teacher of an 
AP course must attend a fourweek Summer Institute at Tech. 
No AP teacher may be respon
sible for more than four classes 
a day or have more than twen
ty students in a section. The 
school must appropriate $30 for 
reading materials for each stu
dent in all AP courses, and all 
AP teachers, every two weeks, 
must meet with a Carnegie pro
fessor in his particular field. 
(Ford Foundation funds financed 
everything in the initial year of 
operation, and from then on it 
paid the teachers salaries in the 
summer and their expenses at 
the June AP conferences and the 
salaries of extra teachers who 
took the load from the AP 
twenty-student limit classes. (It 
also pays the $30 book expendi
tures.)
The results and rewards of the 
Tech-Allderdice program, which 
is so successful that Allderdice 
now has some of the best AP 
courses in the country, are many 
and varied. Among them are the 
renewals of interest by both 
teachers and students for a sub
ject which is taught in a spec
ial course. Out of all the bene
fits, however, the one that is 
perhaps the most important is 
the understanding gained by 
each faculty of the others pro
blems  a unique achievement 
that seems to be an exclusive 
product of the Advanced Place
ment Program.
Everybody, particularly the student veteran, is trying to 
save money these days. With inflated prices soaring higher 
and higher, this is no easy task, so when Carnegie Tech an
nounces that the students themselves can keep down food 
prices, it is time to pay heed.
The students can help keep Skibo prices down or can 
force them to be increased.
When Skibo was re-opened last year, a carry-out-yourown-dishes policy was adopted. Until recently, this plan had 
proved sufficiently successful. However, as more and more 
students carry out less and less dishes, it begins to look as 
if the serve-yourself policy has failed.
As a result the school will be forced to hire extra help 
for the job of removing dirty dishes. When extra help is 
hired, more money must go out in wages. Since campus 
restaurants operate on a close price-balance-expenses, an in
crease in expenses means an increase in prices. To pay a man 
to carry out dishes, the cost of a ham sandwich or a sauer
kraut dinner must go up a few cents.
To the student who is trying to save money, a nickel or 
a dime more for every meal soon adds up. Yet these nickels 
and dimes can be saved very easily.
If every one who eats at the Skibo could endure the 
physical exertion of lifting a few dishes on a tray and carry
ing that tray to the disposal window, extra help would not 
be needed and prices could stay where they are.
Perhaps that is asking too much of the student. If so, 
he can continue to clutter up the tables and pay for that 
luxury and so will every one else.
Its an amazing offer.
The students can keep Skibo prices down or they can 
force them to be increased.
How times do not change! This editorial appeared 
in the Tartan fifteen years ago on January 7, 1947.
Wouldnt be the same without a few each day.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Special Technical 
Issue Now On Sale
Oi sale at various places 
around the campus is the special 
twenty-fifth anniversary issue 
of the Carnegie Technical. If you 
have never read the Technical, 
now is the perfect time to be
come acquainted with it. This 
special commemorative issue 
contains seven of the best arti
cles from past years.
Despite the fact that this is a 
special issue, the price of the 
Technical remains 25c.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, Managing Editor, MU. 1-6550; 
Business Managers, MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Man
ager MU. 3-0460. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor .....................................Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager........................................Harvey Berlin
Advertising Manager..........................................Phil Chau
News Editor ................................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ...............................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor .......................................Steve Rothenberg
Copy Editor......................................................Carol Hosken
Layout Editor  .........................................Fritz Klinke
Secretarial Editor.........................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor .........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor .....................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor....................................Colin Jones
News Staff: Mike Nelson. Sandy Klein, Doris Bell, B. J. Zimmewicz, Mark Appelbaum. Mary Ferguson, Jay Ellen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan, Joyce Holy, Kris Kelman, 
Marty Moore, Margie Park, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky
Features Staff: Margie Park, Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler, Sondra Perellis, Marlene 
Witman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether, Marion Mulligan, Mary 
Dunning, Karen Smith, Irene Grandberg, Cathy ODea.
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser, Phil Chau, Charles HoFook, Larry 
Gaffiri, Bill Froelich, Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock. Jane Klein, Miron Straff. 
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kahl, Ginny Uliss..........................................
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breitenstein, B. J. Zimmewicz, Miriam Gillespie, Pat Boggs
Copy Staff: Margie Park, Pat Michael, Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Georgia 
White, Judy Denberg Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kail, Ginny Uliss 
Layout Staff: Richard Straus, Dale Chcdorow. Allan Pollack
$

---------------------------------------------------

% and eerie with wickedness plainly in view. It is as . fascinating as it is dazzfingty beautiful"
RenClement's
THRILLER with an solutely hair-raising
Aloin Delon,
Somewhere out there, beyond the realm of man's present 
understanding, lies an idea. A concept. A truth.
Gradually, as it comes under the concentration of 
disciplined minds, it will become clear, refined, mas
tered. This is the lonely art of pioneering.
In the Bell System, pioneering often results in major 
breakthroughs. Planning the use of satellites as vehicles 
for world-wide communications is one. Another is the 
Optical Gas Maser, an invention which may allow a 
controlled beam of light to carry vast numbers of telephone 
calls, TV shows, and data messages.
Breakthroughs tike these will one day bring exciting 
new telephone and communications service to you. The 
responsibility of providing these services will be in the 
hands of the people who. work for your local telephone 
company, administrative
and operations personnel who make your telephone service 
the finest is the '
jtfPHONE SYSTEM
Wednesday, January Id, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
acting Class Gives 
Two One Act Plays
On Sunday, January 14th at 
3:00 p.m. in the Wherrett Lounge, 
| the members of the first Acting & 
Stage Production class will pre
sent for the public two one-act 
plays. The two selections to be 
lacted are Will the Ladies Please 
Tome to Order by Martha N. 
Gibson and Still Life by Noel 
Coward. The class composed of 
students from the Engineering & 
Science, Industrial Management, 
and Margaret Morrison schools, is 
under the direction of Mr. James 
DeBlasis, a Tech graduate holding 
a masters degree in Drama. Mr. 
DeBlasis has announced that his 
course for students other than 
ff grama majors will again be offer
ed next semester and that possi
bly a more advanced program will 
be open to those students com
prising the present class.
Parking Permits
Parking permit applications for those students who wish to park 
in school-owned parking lots, are available in Skibo 103. Those stu
dents who now have permits must also reapply. During registration, 
students, to whom permits have been granted, will be informed.
I WRCT To Provide 
1 Music In Snack Bar
Plans are now underway for 
I music in the snack bar and the 
TWafeteria. The student poll, taken 
[ several weeks ago by the Union 
| Committee, showed a fairly even 
I split between preference for music 
I from a juke box or radio station 
I to be played in the snack bar. Of 
I the more than 600 students voting 
I 51 per cent favored a juke box, 
I and 49 per cent favored a radio 
station. Of those favoring the juke 
box, most would object to rock 
and roll, but would enjoy a light, 
rsemi-classieal type of music.
Considering the indecisive vote, 
but noting the large amount of in 
terest among the students f or 
music in the snack bar, WRCT has 
agreed to set up a music service 
for the snack bar and cafeteria. 
This service will include a great 
deal of already programmed 
music.
WRCT is now engineering the 
^speaker and wiring hookup need
ed for the music service, and will 
soon be setting up the equipment
Friends of Music 
Present Concert
The Annual Complimentary 
Conceit for the members of the 
Friends of the Music Library will 
be presented on Monday evening 
January 22, 1962, at 8:30 in the 
evening in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall in Oakland.
The Concert Artists will be two 
beloved Pittsburgh Artists, Janet 
Remington, Harpist and Julia 
Lerner, Mezzo-soprano. Their 
program will include composi 
tions by Dussek, Grandjany, Pur 
cell, Gluck, Scarlatti, Debussy 
Franck, Renie and Salsedo.
Janet Remington is with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
and also on the Faculty of Car 
negie Institute of Technology 
Chatham College and West Vir 
ginia University.
Julia Lerner, on the Faculty 
of Duquesne University, is solo 
ist at the Rodef Shalom Temple 
and frequently appears with the 
Pittsburgh Opera Society.
WANTED
Students able to read 
F rench, Spanish, or 
Italian fluently and 
conversationally.
For audition write:
House of Four Languages, Inc., 
508 Vi Fifth Ave., 
McKeesport, Pa.
Exams?
Heres the easy and 
safe way to keep mentally alert:
Its the safe stay awake tabletNoDoz. And its especially 
helpful when you must be sharp under pressure. NoDoz 
helps restore mental alertness in minutes.
NoDoz keeps you alert with the safe awakener found in 
coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
Absolutely not habit-forming. NoDoz is so 
safe it is sold everywhere 
without prescription. Take it ^ 
while driving, studying, 
working, or entertaining.
ANOTHER FINE PRODUCT OF GROVE LABORATORIES
literally shock inf eerie with
climax. iw y~w
Mori Lof or*t, Mowrict Rontt sa Hifirfbwted bj Times Pwn FROHSHADYSIDE Theater-NOW
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OP HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
ISA Beiqcet St. (Near Corner F*rbe *nL Beeqeet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969

---------------------------------------------------

CHEVROLET
*Optional at ertra rout. Alto 
available in Nova Sport Cvupe.
Please Return To Skibo Info Desk
I am interested in using the darkroom facilities in Skibo when 
it is finished. Please go ahead with plans for its completion.
Pff* 6  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 10, 1962
Name
Campus Address .............................................................................................
Suggestions for equipment, hours regulations, etc., are welcome
Union Committee Asks Students 
About Use of Skibo Activity Rooms
The Carnegie Union Committee of Student Congress 
is in the midst of its survey to determine the most advan
tageous use for several rooms in Skibo. The poster room, 
the commuters rooms, and the^ 
proposed darkroom for student
use are being studied.
As of now, very few construc
tive ideas for the poster room 
have been suggested. This room, 
located on the lower level of 
Skibo near the committee meet
ing rooms, was used last year by 
Scotch and Soda for their prop 
preparations. Constructed for use 
by students in every organi
zation for making posters, the 
room contains a sink and tables 
suitable for its intended purpose. 
The problem arises in the ad
ministration of the room and the 
supplying of material for making 
posters. Right now, if there were 
sufficient student interest, the 
room could probably be opened 
on a sign-up basis  material 
furnished by the user. Any stu
dent having an idea for this room 
is urged to contact the Union 
Committee by leaving a note in 
the Skibo office.
The commuter rooms, both 
mens and womens, are now open 
for limited use. Commuters in
terested in using them can ob
tain the key from the Skibo con
trol desk.
Skibo plans called for a dark
room for student use on some 
type of sign-up basis. This room, 
located next to WRCT on the 
lower level, contains sinks, 
shelves, and cabinets, but no pho
tographic equipment. It would 
cost several hundred dollars to 
equip the room, and the Union 
Committee questions the use that 
the room would be put to by stu
dents. The questionnaire attached 
to this issue of the Tartan will 
furnish the Committee the infor
mation it needs as to student in
terest. If you would make use of 
the darkroom, which would be 
fairly well equipped and would 
be signed for at the control desk, 
please fill out the form and bring 
it to the Skibo control desk. If 
sufficient interest is shown, an ef
fort will be made by the commit
tee to purchase the needed equip
ment and to open the room.
Now, now Susan.. .everybody 
can't be the Homecoming Queen!
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
THIS COUPON GOOD ANYTIME FOR TECH STUDENTS
$1.50 HAIRCUT for Only *1.00
MARINO'S RARBER SHOP
3616 FIFTH AVE. HOURS 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.
(Across from Childrens Hospital)
MU. 2-5774
YMCA Recognizes 
Tech Scuba Divers
Sixteen persons passed tests 
qualifying them for recognition 
as scuba divers during the fall 
semester course conducted at 
Tech. Those who received certifi
cates of recognition from the 
YMCA National Aquatic Commit
tee are: David Adams, Thomas 
Bronson, Robert Englehart, Sue 
Gullion, Philip Hembree, Lester 
Jacobs, Henry May, Alex Nesgoda, Truman Parkinson, Allan 
Pollock, David Thompson, Wood
row Wells, Robert Wendlandt.
The course, taught this semester 
by members of the East Liberty 
YMCA Scuba Club, will be offer
ed again for an eight week period 
in the spring semester. Registra
tion will be during the first week 
of the semester.
Openings Available 
For Winter Weekend
There are still a few reserva
tions available for the Winter 
Weekend planned for February 
2-4 by the YMCA and YWCA at 
Camp Dee' Valley in Somerset 
County. The group will leave by 
chartered bus shortly after lunch 
on Friday, February 2nd, and re
turn after noon dinner on Sun
day. Skis, a ski tow, and tobaggons are avilable at the camp. 
Cost will be $16 for Y members or 
$19 for non-members. Friends of 
Carnegie Tech students may also 
come. A $5 deposit is required to 
hold a place.
| For Quality |
1 and Selection I
> SSee Our Display of
^ Domestic and Imported ^
^ Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos ^
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave.
^ Oakland Pgh., Pa. ^
'tsSSSJVSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSsss'i*
See the new Chevy II at your local authorized Chevrolet dealer* s One-Stop Shopping Center
Liveliness and luxury at a low, low price!
CHEVY II
NOVA
A top-down picture in January? 
Sure! We simply couldnt wait to 
show you the easiest-to-own Chev
rolet Convertible you ever flipped 
a top over! Get a load of that 
broad-loop carpeting, the elegant 
instrument panel, and the leather
like vinyl on those bucket seats* 
up front. We call it Fisher Body 
finesse. W'hat else will you find? 
Plenty of zip, for one thing, from 
a spunky 6. Plenty of room, tooj 
And the rides firm, but ever so 
gentle, thanks to new Mono-Plate 
rear springs. Go see how inexpen
sively your Chevrolet dealer can 
put some June in your January 
with Chevy III
Chevy II was pul to the test 
by the men who know cars best
WINNER OF THE CAR LIFE AWARD 
FOR ENGINEERING EXCELLENCE

---------------------------------------------------

Handed Tenth Defeat
Photo by Skalka
Brocuis pulls down rebound in Techs contest with St. Vincent.
By Marvin Buban
On the Monday before Christ
mas vacation, Tau Delta Phi, for 
the second straight year, proved 
themselves tops in CIT volleyball. 
They defeated Alpha Tau Omega 
rather handily, dropping their 
guard only in the second game, 
but coming back very strong to 
stomp the ATOs in the clincher.
The first game was all Tau Delt, 
as Steve Rothenberg brought the 
serve up, and Yablon or Borofsky 
would promptly pound the ball 
through the floor. The rather 
shocking score of that one-sided 
affair was 15-1.
Well, after the break, the ATOs 
grimly pushed through a secondgame victory, 15-7, with work
horse Eisenhower again carrying 
the load, hitting Butch Gabriels 
fine sets. However, I think the Tau 
Delts were still taking a betweengames break during that period, 
because they came back in the 
finale, and whomped the helpless 
ATO s 15-4, although the latter 
team did rally from match point 
and 14-1. So, hats off to the fine 
Tau Delta Phi team of Berliner, 
Skowron, Katz, Yablon, Borofsky, 
and Rothenberg, who played good, 
steady, and hard ball all season 
long, and justly deserve this years 
trophy.
Praise should flow unto Gabriel 
for the job he did with ATO, 
bringing them from a long way 
down on the list to Number Two 
in the school. Eisenhower, McKnight, Poad, Grebos, Blackwood, 
and Bertucci should thank the 
Great White Volleyball for delivI ering this fine coach and team 
player to them.
Third Place
For third place (SAE regained 
its lost composure and thumped 
! the Vulcans in straight games, 
j 15-4, 15-9. Buban and Jones, with 
; McClure, Wright, and Tamarelli 
setting, again showed the way 
! with a powerful display of spik, ing. Bob Walker came out of semiretirement to show all present that 
he still has some of that ol spikin 
j form left. Together with Betz, Mc
Laughlin and newcomer Glenn 
i Mahltretter, these players gave a 
j few lessons to the inexperienced 
Vulcan team of Tom and Bob Ference, Regan, Loepp, Lynn Adams, 
and Bill Oakers. However, only 
the aforementioned lack kept this 
team from going to the finals.
Looking back over this years 
season, we can truthfully say that 
the best play in many years took 
place, and this was aided by the 
j members of the Officials Club, 
! notably John Mowery, Marvin 
Buban, Fred Kosofsky, and Bob 
Levine. A pat on the back to Di| rector Gene Boyer for his idea of 
forming the club, and a fervent 
hope that it will continue, to raise 
even higher the standards of vol
leyball play at CIT to perhaps 
even national level.
FOR QUICK, 
PERSONAL SERVICE
Scheniey Hcmd Laundry
4618 Forbes Ave.
TECH LOSES TO ST. 
VINCENT, 86-71 and 
HARVARD, 72-64
The Tech hoopsters began their 
first two contests of the new year 
with new opponents and with a 
ew platoon system, but it was a 
familiar old story as hey dropped 
a close decision to Harvard and 
fell victim to St. Vincent. The 
losses leave the Tartans with a 1- 
10 record for the current cam
paign.
Though principally renowned 
for touch football, the Crimson 
from Harvard put on a fine dis
play of shooting and were in com
mand of the game almost all the 
ivay. Tech grabbed the initial lead 
on Steve Foels driving layup, bu1 
Harvards Danny Lynch threw ir 
the first two of his 24 points tc 
deadlock the score for the firsl 
and only time*in the game.
Tech Rallies Fail
The Tartans secured the lead 
for a brief moment on two buck
ets by Hank Werronen midway ir 
the half, but by intermission time, 
ithe Redmen had pulled away to a 
ten point bulge. Tech rallied again 
early in the second half and clos
ed the score to 41-37, but the visi
tors counted several quick ones 
and remained in command for the 
rest of the game.
Senior Dom Perrotta gave the 
finest performance of his Tech 
career as he dropped in 22 points. 
In addition to his steady floor 
play, he was six-for-six at the 
foul line.
Tenth Defeat This Season
St. Vincent handed Tech de
feat number ten as Coach Mel 
Cratsley shuffled a dozen different 
players in an effort to find a con
sistently effective combination. 
Varying between hot and cold, the 
Tartans battled back from a slop
py start to take a five point lead 
on George Fraziers long jumper 
midway in the first half. However, 
this was the last bucket that Tech 
could beg, borrow or steal until 
shortly after intermission.
The Tartans again rallied and 
held their own for the greater 
part of the second half. But a 
rash of mistakes and the Bear
cats superior board strength be
gan to tell and they pulled away 
to a comfortable margin.
Hank Werronen and Steve Foels 
were the most effective for the 
Plaid, gathering 17 and 12 points 
each. Tech entertains Waynesburg 
tonight in Skibo Gym and meets 
sixth-ranked Duquesn|e Saturday 
night in a Pitt Field House 
doubleheader.
Wednesday, January 10, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
TDP Captures Volleyball Crown
CA RNEGIST
Last Saturday Sigma Nu cap- L tured first place in the strike 
P league, Delta Tau Delta took the 
first place in the split league and 
j Beta Theta Pi secured first place 
I in the spares league. The overall 
results follow:
LEAGUE STANDINGS
Strikes
PointsTotal
Team WonLostFins
SN 1339660
SAE "G 937204
BSR 936820
VULCANS 1116295
KS 0126000
Spares
BTP 142322
OBELISK 837149
PKT 84 16612
SAE *P 1116126
TDP 0125851
Splits
DTD 1027273
GRAD EAGLES 837298
DU 846741
ATO 4128890
WHALES 1116074
High GameKubaneek (TDP)225
High SeriesSwisher (Eagles;620
High AverageScott (DTD*188
High Team GameGrad Eagles925
High Team SetGrad Eagles2667
High Team AverageGradEaglesfill
Up front is [FILTER-BLEND and only Winston has it! 
Rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially 
processed for full flavor in filter smoking.
lt. J. Rejuoltle Tobacco Co., Wlt>aton-S*lrn,N. CL
CUO EFHULO Yn ioNSU UFHU $NYSUO
WINSTON TASTES GOOD like a cigarette should!

---------------------------------------------------

Page S  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 1, 19*
"Its Yoga 
/ willed myself 
up here! ;
"... but think of it 
this way, Gwen, 
I'm here, and 
Lord Byron isn't/'
' To lose one's individuality is to 
lose the meaning of life itself!"f "/ tried to be 
a beatnik, 
but / couldn't 
grow a beard."
Traditional Clothing 
for Men
5823 Forbe Ave., Squirrel Hill
Op Tuesday %u4 Thursday 
Evening Until 9-99
20y ucfu0 0cesy
Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge, author of 
The Ancient Mariner, 
said: I once knew a 
man who had 
advanced to such a 
pitch of self-esteem 
that he never 
mentioned himself 
without taking off 
his hat.
Maybe thats carrying 
it a little too far, but 
if you want to 
command respect, its 
.up to you to start it.
Perhaps we can 
help with clothing in 
superb taste.
We have done a lot 
with our Vested Suits 
at $65
Spring Track Participants Called; 
Procedures Outlined For Season
Last fall saw the initiation of a new track on this campus. 
Situated behind Donner-Hall, it is hoped that the new facility 
will encourage more Tech students to go out for the varsity 
team. The track locker-room in the basement of Donner
Hall has been expanded to com-4---------------------------------------------------------
pensate for the expected higher 
turn-out for this sport.
Last years squad, comprised 
mainly of freshmen and sopho
mores, will form a strong consti
tuent of this years squad. Of the 
14 members who received Varsity 
Track letters last year, 13 are ex
pected to return. The Track team 
has lost only one member due to 
graduation. With the added year 
in experience, and an expected 
greater depth, the Track team is 
expected to come out with a fine 
season. This year, for the first 
time, the Penn Conference Cham
pionship Meet will be held on 
Techs campus.
Procedures
Prospective team-members are 
asked to sign up for uniforms and 
equipment with the Athletic Dept, 
in the Gym. The reason for this 
is to give the Athletic Dept, an 
approximation of the new uni
forms to order for the squad. 
These uniforms will be given out 
after Feb. 19 and priority will be 
given to those who signed up first. 
The first practice will start the 
week of Feb. 12-Feb. 16 in the 
Gym at 4:30.
Any members of last years 
squad who still retain part of their 
equipment are asked to return 
their uniform to the Athletic Dept, 
so that it can be cleaned and re
used.
Assistant Managers are needed 
to properly conduct practices and 
game meets. Applications (just 
your name) for this position can 
be given to the Athletic Dept, or 
submitted to Phil Chau (MU. 3- 
0460). Interviews will be held 
after Feb. 7.
WESTMINSTER BEATS 
TECH; THREE SWIM 
MEETS REMAIN
Although they lost their third 
meet of the season to Westmin
ster at Tech Pool, on Saturday, 
January 6, by the score of 56-39, 
the Tartan tankers turned in their 
best performance to date. The 
meet began with a victory by the 
much inspired Tech 400 yard 
medley relay team of Rubin, 
Strasen, Kantrowitz and Burt, 
each man making his finest per
formance of the season.
Through the next five events, 
Tech held the lead. In these ev
ents, Kowach and Kantrowitz took 
first places in the 50 freestyle 
and 200 butterfly, respectively. 
Second places were captured by 
Vandersalm in the 220 freestyle,
McLaughlin in the 200 individual 
medley, and Snow in the diving.
Loses Event Lead
During the last five events, 
Westminster rolled on to over
come the 29-23 Tech lead, wind
ing it up with a victory in the
final 400 yard free-style relay.
Only Strasens first in the 200
breaststroke and Vandersalms 
second in the 440 freestyle pre
vented a complete sweep by the 
Titans in the latter part of the 
meet.
J i m O'Donnell, Westminster 
captain from Pittsburghs South 
Hills High, v as top scorer of the 
meet with powerful first place 
finishes in the 220 and 440 free
style and by anchoring the final 
relay. For Tech. co-captain Steve 
Strasen was high point man fol
lowed closely by Ken Kantro
witz, co-captain Tom Vandersalm, 
and Ron Kowach.
Coming: Meets
Techs last meets before the se
mester break are in the Tech pool 
against Western Reserve, Satur
day, January 13 at 3:00, after a 
1:00 meet between Pitt and Le
high, and against Grove City on 
Wednesday, January 17 at 4:00. 
The Tartans have high hopes of 
wining their fhst meet of the sea
son against Western Reserve.
Photo by Skalka
Sam Cupps displays form and grace as he hits for two in Tech's 86-7If 
loss to St. Vincent. The Tartans have shown improvement through* 
the season, and expect to win a few next semester.
LUCKY STRIKE
presents:
"THE 
INTELLECTUALS"UFFERS
IF YOURE AN INTELLECTUAL, be thankful youre living at the right time. The 
climate of our contemporary culture is sympathetic to new voices, new ideas. 
The new age of enlightenment explains, among other things, the popularity of 
Luckies on college campuses. Deduce this yourself: Enlighten up a Lucky. As 
its heady aroma swirls about you, reflect on this profundity: College students 
smoke more Luckies than any other regular.
CHANGE TO LUCKIES CAR NEG ISTE GCIGE USO C FHCANEL
Product of J/nvtiuzan <Jo&ux<>-cny><tny  < Jo^ioc<r if our middle name'14. T. c..
