Viet Poll Thursday And Friday
. See Page 3
TARTAN
Volume 66Number 20Wednesday, March 8, 1967
Greeks Mix Business 
With Sing*And-Swing
This year the two big weekends for fraternities and 
sororities have been combined in the week of March 13-19. 
Greek Week 67 will include the activities of Greek Sing and 
Swing. As in the past, Panhellenic Council and The Council 
of Fraternity Presidents are presenting a unified effort to
improve and promote the Greek
system and its services to the 
Carnegie Tech campus commun
ity. The activities start Monday, 
March 13, with the Greek Sing 
rehearsals at Carnegie Hall. Tues
day evening marks the joint 
CFP-Panhel meeting.
See Schedule page 9
f
This year special emphasis is 
being placed on the CFP Joint 
Committee meetings. In these 
meetings the officers of Techs 
12 fraternities get together to dis
cuss their respective problems of 
office and how they affect the 
entire system. Something new has 
been added to the meetings of 
house managers, treasurers, stew
ards, and social chairmen: mem
bers of the faculty and admin
istration will participate in the 
meetings. In providing a cons
tant source of reference to ad
ministration policies and ideas, 
their presence should enhance 
the working potential of the com
mittees.
After defining the problems of 
the Greek system, workable solu
tions will be proposed. In addi
tion, this years committees, with 
the help of the administration 
I representatives, plan to take def
inite steps toward rectifying the 
undesirable situations.
Friday the fraternities and sor
orities get together for a night of 
rivalry in the formal atmosphere 
of Greek Sing.
Saturday night all fraternities 
are closed between 6:45 and 11:30 
pm for the Greek Swing Dinner 
Dance at the Hilton Hotel.
Tickets for the dinner are $5 
per couple. This years semi-for
mal dance will begin at 8:30 pm 
in the Hilton Ballroom. Trophies 
will be awarded at 11:30.
This years entertainment fea
tures Johnny Maestro and the 
Fantastic Crests from New York 
City. Johnny Maestro, voted by 
all the trade polls the "most 
promising male vocalist of the 
early sixties, has brought his 
Quintet to stardom over the past 
few years.
*
Financial Aid
Students requesting Financial 
Aid for 1967-68 must return their 
completed applications to the Fin
ancial Aid Office before 5 pm 
next Wednesday, March 15. Ap
plications submitted after the 
deadline will be considered only 
for loan awards.
The application and a Parents 
Confidential Statement are requir
ed of all Financial Aid applicants, 
deluding those holding four-year 
and sponsored awards. Any stu
dent in doubt should inquire at 
the Financial Aid Office, Warner 
Hail.
Off-Campus Living Qranted 
To Junior, Senior Women
Junior and senior women will be allowed to live off campus next year, it was announced 
at last Monday's meeting of the Association of Women Students. Until now, only seniors 
and women over 21 were permitted to have off-campus apartments. Juniors and seniors 
under 21 will have to get parental permission to move out of the dorms.
This change in juniors regulaGreek Sing Group Johnny Maestro and the Crests
OpenDorm V isit: 
Greatest Ideas 
Since Oreos
Donuts distributed from 
Hamerschlag Hall lobby dur
ing Sunday afternoons open 
house were gone soon after
4 oclock as more than 100 
women (mothers and sisters 
included) visited mens dor
mitory rooms. And dormi
tory residents blamed the 
poor attendance on the 
rainy weather.
Comments regarding the bi
monthly open house policy were 
generally favorable. Sitting in Scobell window sills with bever
ages in hand, hosts and their 
guests called it great. Backed 
up by his visitors guitar, a Hen
derson resident labelled open 
house the greatest invention 
since Oreos. Even the dozen 
T-shirted, pool - playing Donner 
men who admitted that they had 
no dates praised the policy.
One Donner lounge card player 
found it disconcerting to see girls 
in places where he wasnt used 
to seeing them. But he felt that 
after a few Sundays he would 
adjust.
Berkeley Lessons
Dr. Martin Trow, Associate Pro
fesor of Sociology from the Berke
ley campus of the University of 
California, will speak on campus 
next week. His topics are Some 
Lessons From Berkeley and 
Problems Of Expansion In High
er Education. The speeches are 
next Tuesday, March 14, and 
Wednesday, March 15, respective
ly, in the GSIA Auditorium. Both 
speeches start at 4:30 p.m.
A Phi O Opens 
Competition For 
New Scholarship
Competition for the first 
annual $250 Kent D. Shaffer 
Memorial Scholarship is now 
open to all freshman, sophomomre, and junior members 
of the Carnegie Tech (Kap
pa) Chapter of Alpha Phi 
Omega.
The scholarship, established in 
1884, is presently being endowed 
by the chapter and is to be per
petuated. This years award is 
granted by A Phi O directly in 
addition to the regular contribu
tion to the trust.
The $250 award will be made 
to that applicant whose personal 
conduct best reflects the ideals 
of A Phi O and the principles ex
emplified in the work of Kent 
D. Shaffer.
The winner will be chosen by 
scholarship trustees and the 
brothers of A Phi O and will be 
announced on Call Day at Spring 
Carnival.
Help The Scot
The Great Scot needs help 
to continue. There will be a 
meeting of all those interested 
tomorrow, March 9, in Skibo 
34 at 7 pm. With enough work
ers, the Scot can appear for 
Spring Carnival.
SF Talks Tolkien
The Science Fiction Club will 
meet Monday, March 13 in Fkibo 
55 at 4:30 pm to discuss JRR Tol
kiens The Ring Trilogy. All mem
bers are invited to attend.
WRCT Surveys 
Campus Radio 
Listening Habits
Radio station WRCT has 
released the results of its an
nual survey of campus lis
tening habits. The survey 
was made over the past two 
weeks by WRCT staff mem
bers canvassing Morewood 
and the mens dorms with a 
two-page questionnaire. Ev
ery student in his room at 
the time of the survey was 
questioned. Total response 
was about 400  40 per cent 
of the total number of dorm 
and Morewood residents.
WRCT is currently under fire 
from former Program Director 
Barry Cornet, removed from 
office last semester, who calls 
the stations programming un
imaginative and claims the 
station is being mismanaged.
Ron Haan, chairman of an adhoc Student Senate committee to 
investigate WRCT policies, has 
proposed closing the station down 
for repairs and revision, then re
opening it a semester later. The 
closing of the station would be 
effected by voting down its bud
get request when it comes before 
the Senate.
The investigation per se has 
been turned over to Pi Delta 
Epsilon, journalism honorary, 
which has begun preliminary 
questioning of WRCT staff 
members.
Present Program Director Joe 
Hupcey says, however, the listen
ers survey was not intended to 
defend anything or prove any
thing You can say anything 
with statistics. Results of the 
survey:
(Continued on Page 8)
SG Candidates
Students who are completing 
petitions for student government 
are reminded that the petitions 
are due in Skibo 103 by 4:30 pm, 
March 14. The positions to be 
filled are senate representatives, 
president, vice - president, and 
commuter representative.
tions came as part of the Divi
sion of Student Affairs answer to 
four housing proposals made by 
AWS last semester.
The replies to the other pro
posals, as outlined in a letter 
from Dean George K. Brown to 
Marilyn Blitz, president of 
AWS, are:
1. Women now living in school 
apartments (i.e.,Colonial Manor) 
will have priority for moving into 
school apartments next year.
It was later decided that class 
rank (i.e.,senior, junior, sopho
more) would also be a basis for 
priority.
School apartments for women 
will be located in the Woodlawn 
Pharmacy building and the base
ment of E-Tower Morewood.
2. Men will be allowed to visit 
the first-floor E-Tower apartments 
until 12:30 am weeknights and 
1:30 am weekends. These visit
ing hours will also prevail in 
Woodlawn.
3. The second floor of E-Tower 
will not be made into honor 
apartment housing for women; 
no bedroom partitions will be 
built in the rooms and no carpet 
will be laid in the halls. Dean 
Brown called these construction 
measures costly and temporary. 
Thus girls on 2-E will not be al
lowed male visitors, except dur
ing open houses.
Open House Survey"
The topic of open house in 
Morewood itself was discussed at 
the AWS meeting last Monday. 
Following the lead of Mens Dorm 
Council, AWS is polling the resi
dents of Morewood to see if they 
want open house every week, 
twice a month, once a month, or 
only on big weekends (the 
present setup.) Results of the 
poll will be known next week.
AWS Elections
Elections for AWS officers for 
1967-68 are coming up April 3 
and 4. Applications for nomina
tion can be picked up at the 
main desk in Morewood starting 
next Monday, March 10, and 
should be turned in to Judy Cor(Continued on Page 9)
Photo Seminar
Advanced Photography Semin
arMarch 18, 1967Per students 
in any department, doing black 
and white, color or color slide 
work interested in a critique and 
idea gathering session  Work 
must be submitted in order to 
attend. Please contact Laura Seidler for further information 681- 
1680.

---------------------------------------------------

Stanley
WarnerSTRAND
THE GREATyT
WED. thru SAT.1 
MARCH 8*h-llth
In one of her memorable hits!
ANNA KARENINA
plus MIN A Bill
with Wallace Beery, Marie Dressier
NEXT SUN. and MON.GARBO in NINOTCHKA
plus THE THIN MAN
with Wm. Powell, Myrna Loy
2-WEEK GARBO ALL-STAR FESTIVAL
HOLLYWOOD
ZERO MOSTEL  PHIL SILVERS ...... ,..OT. V[.mK
In A MELVIN fRANK Production JACK GILFORD ' BISTER KEATONA FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM"
MICHAEL CRAWFORD / MICHAEL HORDERNa..:. MELVIN IRANI MiCMAft PfPTVW! 
f.HAKOLDS PRINCE *. - t.. STEPHEN SONOHfIM - .8URT SHfVfiOVf 11ARRYOil HtRICHARD LESTER ...- UNITED ARTISTSSUCCtSTtO fOR MATURE UOlENCtS
6th WEEK
THE
OPENS MARCH 10th
ifflM CHEKHirS
Directed by Themas Hill 
Translated by Tyrone Guthrie and Leonid Kipflis
RESERVED Box Cffic* Phone 21-4445 or Glmbels,# . Horne's, Pen-Sheraton, Pitt Book CenterSEATS NOW ALL SEATS $3.30 (SAT. $4.40)
Performances: Ties, thro Sot. at 8:30Saa. at 7:30
SPECIAL RATES FOR STUDENTS
WITH I.D. CARDS: $1.50 Mon. thru Fri. - $2.00 Saturday
MATINEES ... 2 P.M. 
EVENINGS______8:30
TODAY AND TOMORROW ONLY
FOR FOOR PERFORMANCES ONLY
A |brand-new| actual performance of 
The DOyly Carte Opera Company.
Rates Cut 
For Students
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will 
offer special Wednesday matinees 
and reduced ticket prices for col
lege students for the production 
of Anton Chekhovs The Three 
Sisters, beginning March 10.
Student rates will begin at $1.50 
for Wednesday Matinees and all 
evening performances with the ex
ception of Saturday. Saturday 
special rates for students will 
begin at $2.00. Larger discounts 
for groups of ten or more students 
are available upon request. Book
ing information and reservations 
for student groups may be made 
by calling Noel Riggs, Group Sales 
Representative at 621-4445, exten
sion 70. Curtain times are at 2:00 
for Wednesday matinee, 8:30 Tues
day through Saturday and at 7:30 
on Sunday.
The world famous drama is un
der the direction of Thomas Hill, 
a guest lecturer in Carnegie 
Techs school of drama.
Ceilidh Taps Hill TalentThree Gospel Groups Sing
Three gospel music groups and a blues piano player from 
Pittsburghs Hill District will perform in the Wherrett Room 
this Friday evening. The program, sponsored by Ceilidh and 
the Pittsburgh Folklore Society, is planned to fill a conspic
uous void in Pittsburgh entertainment . . . the recognition 
and documentation of some of the vast traditional music 
sources in the Pittsburgh area.
The three gospel groupsthe
Return Fraternity 
and Sorority 
Proofs to:
A
THISTLE OFFICE 
53 Skibo 
12 noon5 pm 
before Friday, March 17
FLYING HOME FOR EASTER?
Then Take The Bus To The Airport1
Buses will leave Skibo lot at 11:45, 2:45 and 4:45 sharp on 
Wednesday, March 22nd (arrive at Greater Pittsburgh Air
port by 12:30, 3:30, and 5:45). Reservations can be made 
on a first-come, first-served basis. Enclose $1.25 with your 
name, mailing address, and desired bus departure time. 
If paying by check, make check payable to "Kappa of Alpha 
Phi Omega." Send to: Shuttle Bus, c/o A Phi O, Box 282, 
Campus Mail. Your reservation will be confirmed.
 ANOTHER A PHI O SERVICE 
NAME...................................................................................................................................
MAILING ADDRESS............................................................................................................
DESIRED DEPARTURE TIME..........................................................................................
7 th BIG
WEEK!FILM OF 1966!
Notional Society of Film Critics 
A Carlo Ponti Production
Antonionis
-UP
Vanessa Redgrave
David Hemmings  Sarah Miles
COLOR
Golden Rings, the Gospel Lights, 
and the Travelairesall sing at 
various churches in the Hill.
The Golden Rings is a trio of 
women who sing without accom
paniment. The Gospel Lights 
consists of five to seven men 
(the number varies) who use 
an electric guitar for background. 
The Travelaires are described as 
a more professionally-slanted 
vocal group with some very 
smooth arrangements.
Harold Burke, a blues piano 
and harmonica player, was found 
at a Hill community center by 
Ceilidh member Bob Arnold, who 
also recruited the gospel singers 
for the concert.
Arnold toured the Hill, port
able tape recorder in hand, and 
chose the musicians for Friday 
nights concert from about 20 
or 30 gospel groups who sing 
and play regularly in the neigh
borhood. To his knowledge, none 
of the artists he has contracted 
has ever performed professional
ly or outside of Pittsburgh.
About 150 tickets for the con
cert, at $1.50 each, are on sale 
at the Skibo information desk 
from 1 to 5 pm daily. The con
cert starts at 8:30 pm this Fri
day, March 10, in the Wherrett 
Room.
No Parking
The Bureau of Mines has noti
fied Carnegie Tech that the park
ing spaces on its property are 
subject to government regulation.
As a result of parking by unau
thorized persons, the Bureau is 
going to step up its enfrocement 
program effective March 10. Cars 
parked on the Bureaus property 
without authorization will be tow
ed away or tagged; the operators 
will be subject to a fine ($12.50).
Recommended for 
mature audiences
* CHILD-CARE WANTED 
for 2Vi year old.
Regular year - round. In Oakland. 
Wife of staff member, student, etc. 
with older children ideal. Working 
mother. Phone 521-6226 after 6.
Cf/ttL. 3f*jubdcGARBOMARCH]RNNR KRREHINR
.BARTHOLOMEW.Ji
..and .. 
WALLACE BERRY and 
MARION MAIN
 He.MIN 'N BILL
A Premier Productions Co., Inc. Release
A BHE Production of THE D OYLY CARTE OPERA COMPANY  "THE MIKADO I 
by W S GILBERT and ARTHUR SULLIVAN ? Based on the Stage Production by
ANTHONY BESCH  Produced by ANTHONY HAVELOCK-ALLEN and JOHN |______
BRABOURNE  Directed by STUART BURGE from WARNER BROS.
TECHNICOLOR* WIDESCREEN
PRESENT THIS AD AT BOX OFFICE FOR 
STUDENT-FACULTY DISCOUNT PRICE $1.00
Page 2CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, March 8, 1967--------------------------------------------------------r

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 8, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTANPage 3
Carmichael Attacks Integration, 
Explains Qoals of Black Power
On Thursday, March 2, at 2:30 pm, Stokely Carmichael addressed an overflowing 
crowd of students and faculty in the Pitt Student nonviolent Coordinating Committee, out 
dent onviolent Coordinating Committee, outlined the theoretical concept of black power, 
and attacked the concept of integration as it is currently practiced in this country.
Carmichael first called atten
tion to the history of distortion 
that the concept of black power 
has received in the national me
dia of publicity. Pointing to get 
whitey sensationalism and racewarmongering, he said, Indi
vidual reporters have been con
ditioned by the developing ra
cism of the society to the point 
where they are incapable even of 
objective observation and report
ing of racial incidents, much less 
the analysis of ideas.
Blackness and Powerlessness 
In an attempt to clarify the 
concept of black power, Carmich
ael then said, Blacks in this 
country are defined to two forces 
_their blackness and their pow
erlessness. There have been tra
ditionally two communities in 
Americathe white community, 
which controls and defines the 
forms which all institutions with
in the society take, and the black 
community, which has been ex
cluded from participating in the 
power decisions that shape the 
society, and has traditionally 
been dependent upon and subser
vient to the white community. 
Racist assumptions of white su
periority have been so deeply in
grained into the structure of 
the society that it is so much 
a part of the national subconsci
ence that it is taken for granted 
and frequently not even rec
ognized.
Carmichael said that although 
most members of society are 
aware of and condemn individ
ual acts of racism, they fail 
to understand the significance 
of institutionalized racism/' 
which characterizes this coun
try. Distinguishing between 
them he said, When uniden
tified white terrorists bomb a 
church in Birmingham, Ala., 
and kill five black children, 
that is an act of individual ra
cism. But when, in that same 
city, not five, but 500 black 
babies die each year because 
of lack of proper food, shelter, 
medical facilities, and thous
ands more are destroyed and 
maimed physically, emotional
ly, and intellectually, because 
of conditions of poverty and 
deprivation in the ghetto, that 
is institutionalized racism. But 
the society either pretends that 
it doesnt know of the situation, 
or is incapable of doing any
thing meaningful about it.
The groups that have access to. 
the resources and power to 
change the situation, he contin
ued, benefit politically and eco
nomically from the existence of 
the ghetto. The black community 
in America is the victim of white 
imperialism and colonial exploita
tion. The people in the black 
community do not control the re
sources of that community. Its 
Political decisions, its law en
forcement, its housing standards, 
even the physical ownership of 
land, houses, and stores lies out
side that community. It is white
power that makes the laws, and 
it is violent white power, in the 
form of armed white cops, that 
enforces those laws with guns 
and nightsticks. The vast major
ity of black people in this coun
try live in these captive commun
ities, and must endure these con
ditions of oppression because and 
only because they are black and 
powerless.
Rejects Traditional Integration
Carmichael then pointed out 
that to correct this pattern will 
require far-reaching changes in 
the basic power relationships and 
the ingrainted social patterns 
within this society. In recent 
years, he continued, liberals of 
all stripes have been advocating 
integration as a solution to the 
(Continued on Page 9)
A W S ...
(Continued from page 1) 
nell, Election chairman, 2D4, by 
Monday, March 24.
Offices open are President, First 
and Second Vice-presidents, Sec
retary, and Treasurer. To be eli
gible, a girl must have over a 2.0 
average and must have served 
on AWS one semester.
Counselling Jobs
The Campus Y office has in
formation available on cam-p 
counselling jobs for men and 
women during the summer. They 
are with the Harrisburg YWCA 
(women) and the Cincinnati, 
Ohio, YMCA (men). Salaries for 
men range from $225 to $450 
plus board and room for eight 
and one-half weeks. Inquire at 57 
Skibo.
Vietnam Poll
The Vietnam Referendum, post
poned from last week, will be 
held this Thursday and Friday. 
Sponsored by Student Govern
ment and the Tartan, the poll is 
open to all students, faculty mem
bers, and administrators.
Ballot boxes and dittoed bal
lots will be placed in Baker Hall, 
Hunt Library, Doherty Hall, Ski
bo Information Desk, and Mar
garet Morrison. In the balloting, 
students, faculty, and administra
tors will be able to indicate their 
support or opposition to the two 
proposals printed, last week, and 
their answers to the questions 
printed on page six.
(Continued on Page 6)
Like being an engineer anywhere else, youre saying.
Well . . . yes, and no.
Procter & Gamble is a remarkably stable company, and technical employment just doesnt 
fluctuate. P&G engineers dont worry about shutdowns or layoffs.
And P&G puts more than a little emphasis on the creative aspects of engineeringthe 
solving of problems by men encouraged to use their own initiative to "find a different way. 
P&G takes special care of its new engineers, too. They are selected with care from among 
each years crop of graduates, and every effort is made to assign each man to a project in 
the area that interests him most.
Projects of considerable responsibility are assigned each individual early in his career, 
and, assisted by planned personal coaching at first, it is not unusual for an engineer after 
six months to be responsible for the design and development of equipment in the million 
dollar range.
This strong beginning leads to advancement in a relatively short time, and our engineers 
tell us it is invaluable.
It is invaluable to the Company, too, and most necessary with the heavy engineering load 
to which we are committed.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS MARCH 17, 1967
Procter & Gamble
For '67 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.VK MOTOR
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, March 8, 1967
(Editorial . . .
An Apology
Once in a while an article is printed in the Tartan without adequate 
editing or proof-reading. The Tartan has and will continue to attempt to 
present issues fairly with no presumed biases in news content. Editorializ
ing is reserved for this space, and the individual opinions that are presented 
via by-lined columns. To print slanted or biased stories or opinions without 
a by-line or as straight news copy would be a breach of good journalistic 
practices. Since this did happen last week, the Tartan apologizes for this 
case of insufficient editing, and for the offense to the intelligence of its 
readers.
The questions on Vietnam printed in this issue were formulated, not 
as an attempt to cast the issues into black or white answers, but are de
signed to ascertain the position of campus sentiment on some of the basic 
issues of U.S. policy in Vietnam.
It is especially important that those who support or oppose this policy 
be offered the opportunity to present their views. Moreover, it is becoming 
increasingly important that a greater number of people become cognizant of 
the issues in this conflict.
The Tartan urges all students, faculty members, and administrators 
to consider the two proposals in last weeks Tartan, and the questions print
ed this week, and register on opinion in the referendum Thursday and 
Friday.
A Dangerous Game
Of the many student problems the administration concerns itself with, 
one of the most crucial should be student safety. Last Friday, a Carnegie 
Tech freshman was hit by a passing car as he attempted to cross Forbes at 
Morewood. Though no serious injury resulted (he was released from the 
hospital the same evening) the incident again emphasizes the dangerous 
game one plays when crossing Forbes Avenue.
The Carnegie Tech administration has been aware of the problem for 
many years, but the Forbes-Morewood corner remains unchanged. Several 
years ago debate ensued over the best (and cheapest, since Tech must pay 
for the construction of a bridge or tunnel) method of insuring the safety of 
those wishing to cross there- Several solutions were suggested, including a 
bridge, tunnel, even a four-way red light as part of the light sequence, but 
all had inherent drawbacks, and none of those suggested was completely 
effective; thus the issue was laid aside.
Not all the blame can be attributed to the administration, for the 
Pittsburgh Bureau of Traffic Planning is guilty of the same if we ignore 
the problem, maybe it will go away attitude. In an attempt to pass the 
buck, the Bureau maintains that students would not pay any attention to
WalkDont Walk lights, or any other solution, since they dont wait and 
cross with the green light now. What the astutely observant Bureau fails 
to mention is that traffic on Morewood Avenue must turn right or left on 
Forbes, hence even when the light is green, pedestrians must cope with 
turning cars moving across their path.
One factor that compounds the problem of dodging traffic is the speed 
of the vehicles approaching the corner. Unless traffic is unusually heavy 
many drivers pass the corner at speeds between 25 and 40 miles per hour! 
The traffic pattern becomes even more complex as drivers, seeking to avoid 
other cars in the left-turn lane, drive to the right of the trolley islands, 
thereby endangering those waiting at the curb to cross the street.
Equally important is the fact that the present situation is going to 
get worse. Since trolley cars have been removed from service on Forbes 
Avenue, the cement islands, long a haven for desperate street-crossers, will 
be removed this summer. When (if) the Dramatic Arts Center and WQED
Playing: Russian Roulette with automobiles ... on your mark . . . Get Set . . . Go!
are built, an even greater number of people will cross Forbes. In fact, it has 
been estimated that eventually between 30 to 50 percent of the student 
body will have to use the Forbes-Morewood crossing in order to go to class 
or residences.
Undoubtedly this latest incident will provoke renewed interest down
town and in Warner Hall. But there have been accidents and many nearmisses before, yet the game of run-or-be-run-over continues. This renewed 
concern in the matter must not terminate short of an actual solution, amen
able to both Tech and the traffic planners, which is effective and operable in 
the near future. In the meantime, a temporary solution is needed that 
would slow traffic, such as speed zone signs, warning drivers of an approach 
ing pedestrian area. Furthermore, since the time of heaviest student traffic 
coincide with the teams of heaviest vehicular traffic8 am, 12 noon, and 
1 pmcity policement should be on duty to direct automobile and pedestrian 
traffic at these times.
When approximately one thousand students cross Forbes Avenue at 
least twice a day, most of them at this corner, the need for vastly improved 
safety measures is paramount. Someday, someones luck is going to run out.
Of-Cfam pausf
Big Brothers 
Eyes Are Closed
Editor, the Tartan:
It is time for the administra
tion and the students to take a 
serious look at womens regula
tions at CIT and to make public 
their views. The system, as it 
stands, is a farce and should be 
either altered or abolished.
If the school is going to fill their 
rules with loopholes and turn 
their heads when a rule is broken, 
then why should the students 
fear them? The present system 
does not allow for personal mor
als set up by the administration, 
is utterly ridiculous if not enforc
ed.
Colonial Manor is a failure. An 
honor system cannot be success
ful unless the participants are
__oarnegle tech_TARTAN
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
. _Editor-In-ChiefExecutive Editor............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor........................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager...........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor ................................................................BRUCE GELINNews Editor.......................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..................................Mark Kaminsky
Local Advertising Manager........................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager...........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ...................................... .......Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor................Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.........Harvey A. Shapiro
Circulation Managers....Jeff Parks, Jim Neumeister
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Und, Barbara ANKR
Executive Assistant*: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille Badzgon, Chipper Monk 
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer, Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, John Mera. Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausier, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.Business Staff: Gail Bchner. Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Ginny McKelvy, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson, Nancy Young.Editorial Board: Evan M Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, 
Jane Merck, Carroll Swarmcr.
PUBLISHED WEEKLYOFFICES: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Phone 682-4557. 
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postoge Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Repreeonted for notional advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
closely knit into one common unit. 
Just because girls are sharing an 
apartment house is not enough 
incentive to warrant honor.
The administration was liberal 
enough to set up a judicial system 
among the students. This branch 
of the school hierarchy has 
the power to inflict punishment 
upon violators of the rules. How
ever, their function is worthless. 
When a serious case arises, they 
offer their opinion and refer the 
prisoner to a higher level. Inevit
ably, nothing happens.
The women at CIT are clever 
when it comes to breaking rules, 
but after a while there is no ex
citement in it anymore  it is 
made too easy. She learns to fear 
bed checks and fire drills, but 
otherwise she is free to do any
thing she pleases knowing too 
well that Big Brother is watch
ing with his eyes closed. ~
Margaret Smolen 
Sophomore, Humanities
Poll Questions 
Not Neutral
Editor, the Tartan:
It was with a feeling of absolute 
disbelief and regret that we read 
the answers in the alledgedly 
neutral poll-to-be of Tech students 
their opinion of the war in Viet
nam. We heartily support the 
philosophy that a newspaper take 
a stand on all important issues. 
However, we feel that your opin
ion should be confined to editori
als. We feel that the poll as pre
sented was an insult to the intel
ligence of this student body and 
abominable insult to responsible 
journalism.
Let us consider question num
ber three. Either response (a) 
that of a Communist plot to des
troy the free world, or (b) that 
oi nothing more than a civil war,
entirely ignores the complexity of 
the conflict which the United 
States finds itself a part of and 
reduces the student to making one 
of two rather ridiculous choices. 
As a matter of fact, practically 
all the questions force the student 
to choose either a leftist line or 
that of the ultra-right wing with 
no middle ground for those who 
view the question objectively as 
opposed to emotionally.
Our main point is this; the war 
in Vietnam, and the United States 
policies there and in other areas 
of Southeast Asia cannot be view
ed in black-or-white terms. In
stead, we must realize that this 
situation is one of complexly 
formed shades of gray. As such, 
the questions posed, and the 
answers to them were, in a word, 
absurd.
Gene L. Payne 
AMS 68
F. Denis dAmbrosi 
CHEM. ENG. 68 
David D. Pettigrew 
GAM 68 
Stephen C. Steinhauer 
EE 68 
Betty Landish 
History 68 
Len Wanetik 
AM 68 
William Libman 
Economics 69 
Stephen Walfish 
Psychology 68 
Michael Cooperman 
Math 67 
Margaret Poll 
Psychology 67
H. Wayne Hammond 
BSC 69
David A. Snyder 
Chem 69
Anthony Novakovic 
MMS 69
Cornet Deserves 
Objective Hearing
I wish to add my comments to 
the growing stack of controversial 
commentary surrounding the pres
ent state of WRCT, and, in doing 
so, contribute another vote in 
support of Mr. Barry Cornets ef
forts.
What the general public does 
not know about WRCT is that con
troversies like the present one 
which they are reading about 
each week ar nothing new. Ive 
been associated with WRCT for 
four semesters now, and have 
seen four different managements 
(governments? policies? re
gimes?) rise and fall at the sta
tion. I have the rather dubious 
reputation of being grouped with 
the Sunday night request show 
as having the only program re
maining on the air (Studio J) over 
four semesters of managements. 
But Mr. Cormets is the first one 
which has appeared once and 
wished to come back for a sec
ond course. There is something 
to be said for this, believe me.
Why the constant changeover? 
The answer is really very simple. 
Its the way Carnegie Tech is. 
Radio broadcasting is a very de
manding business, in terms of 
time, talent," and energy. To 
achieve any degree of success re* 
quires a large quantity of each 
of these. But because of the high 
academic and professional de
mands made of students of Car
negie Tech, who has much time 
for such a thing as WRCT? What 
is worse is that the administration 
and faculty remain completely un
interested. They rather choose to 
look upon WRCT as an academic 
troublespot and refuse to offer 
any sort of assistance even in the 
limited form of faculty advisors.
(Continued on Page 5)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 8, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 5
Three Rivers Festival
Invites Tri-State Artists
The Three Rivers Arts Festival of Carnegie Institute is 
again inviting artists from a 110-mile radius of Pittsburgh 
to submit work for its eighth annual indoor-outdoor exhibi
tion. By popular demand the Arts Festival has been extend
ed from 10 to 11 days and will be held in Pittsburghs Gate
way Center May 25 to June 4.
Original oil paintings, watercolors, graphics, sculpture, cera
mics, metalwork and weaving will 
be eligible for entry. The art show 
is open to artists 18 or older and 
living within a 110-mile radius of 
Pittsburgh. Participants are ex
pected from Eastern Ohio, North
ern West Virginia and Western 
Maryland, as well as Western 
Pennsylvania.
In addition to the art exhibi
tion, the Festival will feature 
drama, symphony, jazz, folk 
singing and band concerts, 
choirs and marionette shows in 
its noon through late evening 
daily programs. More than 130- 
000 people are expected to at
tend the Festival which offers 
all exhibitions and performances 
free of charge.
Information and entry forms 
may be obtained by sending a 
self-addressed, stamped, business 
size envelope to: Three Rivers 
Arts Festival, 1251 N. Negley Av
enue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206. En
try forms will be mailed from
the Festival office after April 1.
Entries, entry forms and a three 
dollar handling fee will be due 
for delivery to Carnegie Institute 
Museum of Art May 5 and 6 from 
10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Local Artist In Charge 
William J. Miller, Chairman of 
the Three Rivers Arts Festival 
has appointed Mrs. David R. 
Weill, Jr. Chairman of the 1967 
art exhibition. Mrs. Weill is Pitts
burgh artist Eva Weill. Her cochairman is Mrs. James R. Wat
son. Mrs. George B. Berger, Jr., 
heads the Artists Liason Commit
tee.
In 1966, 900 artists submitted 
approximately 4,000 works of 
art to the Festival judges. Sales 
numbering 272 totaled more
than $20,465.00.
The Three Rivers Arts Festi
val is sponsored by Carnegie In
stitute and is supported through 
the generosity of foundations, 
corporations, interested individ(Continued on Page 9)
Readers Write ...
(Continued from Page 4)
Thus, by definition, WRCT must 
remain wholly amateurish, run by 
the whims of those elected to 
office (youd think it as an Amer
ican Legion ladies auxiliary or 
something) because of the lack of 
real broadcasting and journalistic 
knowhow, training and guidance. 
But this is not meant as an in
dictment against the present man
agement for they have only done 
what they have felt to be the best 
policy for WRCT, whim or not. 
This is a big point in their favor 
as far as Im concerned. They 
have worked hard, and, in their 
eyes, have achieved an accept
able degree of success. But I can
not help feel they have little or 
no talent for what they are doing 
even though they try very hard. 
Success is not measured by how 
many broadcasting hours one has 
per week. Content of program
ming must be considered. WRCT 
can and should do better.
Basically, its a question of pro
gramming theory. Mr. Cornet 
wishes to implement a dversified 
schedule in an effort to satisfy 
the radio appetites of a diversi
fied college audience. Whats 
more, he has the talent necessary 
to do it. Theres certainly nothing 
intrinsically wrong with rock and 
jazz programming and I would be 
the last one to wish it abolished 
from the WRCT schedule. But 
WRCT can do much more for its 
audience, culturally and informa
tively. The program which Mr. 
Cornet advocates is a step in the 
right direction. Radio broadcast
ing is a unique form of show 
business offering a host of op
portunities for creativity. Mr. 
Cornet has this creativity. Being 
involved with the arts as he is, 
his sense of programming is 
much keener than anyone elses 
which I have seen at WRCT. His 
kind of show business talent, and 
I'm sure there is much more of it 
to be found in the Fine Arts Col
iege, is what is needed at WRCT. 
People like Mr. Cornet are the 
ones who should be most involved 
with WRCT or any radio station.
These are the people for whom 
professional broadcasters look to 
fill their ranks. Almost anyone 
can spin records on the air if they 
are extrovert enough. But that 
gives them no talent qualifications 
for what they are doing.
Can Mr. Cornet achieve a high
er degree of success than the 
present management? Thats quite 
a different question. Quite frank
ly, unless he can come to WRCT 
with a student staff of no less 
than 100 people, I doubt it. Cer
tainly a radio station is a business 
as well as a creative endeavor 
with a need for maintainence and 
management as well as creativity 
Unfortunately, the current contro
versy has become somewhat of a 
personality clash in addition to 
the theoretical differences which 
exist. Mr. Comet has stooped to 
vociferous name-calling while si
lent, steaming hatred exudes from 
the other side. This is all child 
ishness pure and simple, for ideal
ly everyone with an interest in 
WRCT and a degree of talent for 
what they wish to do should be 
brought together to work as a 
unit. However, this appears im 
possible.
Therefore, I call on the distin 
guished members of Student Con 
gress to listen to the words of 
Mr. Cornet carefully (without the 
mud-slinging). I think he deserves 
the opportunity to develop some 
thing at WRCT which Carnegie 
Tech can be proud of. But he will 
need full co-operation from all 
concerned, something which he 
lacked before. Hopefully, he will 
produce something of value which 
will spur deeper interest in broad
casting and communications on 
the school administration and fa 
culty. For only through their help 
will WRCT achieve greatness.
A campus radio station can and 
should be much mor e than an 
ordinary school extra-curricular 
activity. Let us hope Mr. Cornet 
has the opportunity to make it so 
Certainly radio at Carnegie Tech 
can be no worse for the attempt 
Jeff Stayer 
WRCT Staff Member
GeorgeBernardShawbe darned!
Youth isnt wasted on the young. And the young dont 
waste their time at Celanese.
Our top people are never old-fashioned about any new 
idea, whether it comes from middle management or 
from our youngest college grad. We have a master plan 
and the vitality to make it work. Marketing is way-out 
and zeroed right in. Finance knows that we have better 
things to do with our money than let it grow barnacles... 
shelled out $465 million in capital expenditures 
over the last 3 years. In the scientific department, we 
combine technical insight with an unusual grasp of 
marketing dynamics.
Thinking young explains how we chalked-up one of the 
most impressive corporate rebuilding jobs in recent 
history. How we turned what was basically a one-product 
business into a solid and diverse international corporation 
dealing in chemicals, miracle fibers;plastics, paints, 
petroleum and forest products. How we multiplied sales
5 fold in 10 years. How we now have 100 plants in the 
U.S., Canada, Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia.
Possibly we could afford to relax a little. But success 
makes young blood run even faster.
Which means that the ambitious college grad couldnt 
find a more provocative opportunity anywhere else in 
American industry.
Accountants, Chemists, ChEs, MEs, Physicists, MBAs
Our representative will be on your campus March 13th 
Contact your placement director to make an interview 
appointment. Or write for a brochure outlining more 
specific areas of job opportunity to Mr. J. B. Kuhn,
Manager of University Recruitment, Celanese 
Corporation, 522 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10036.
ELANESE
CHEMICALS . FIBERS  PLASTICS  COATINGS . PETROLEUM  FOREST PRODUCTS
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M4F)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-NVednesday, March 8, 1967
Viet Poll...
(Continued from Page 3) 
Vietnam Questions
1.1 feel that the best policy for 
the United States in Vietnam 
would be to:
a. Immediately halt bombings 
and attempt to start negotia
tions.
b. Continue the present conduct 
of the war without major 
changes.
c. Make efforts to achieve vic
tory through more intense mili
tary activity.
d. immediate removal of all 
U. S. troops from Vietnam.
2.1 believe that the aggressor 
in Vietnam is (check one or 
several):
a. North Vietnam
b. the United States
c. Red China
d. the USSR
3.1 feel that the U.S. has
a. done a good job of informing
the American people about the 
situation in Vietnam
b. withheld information, but 
only for security reasons
c. has deliberately withheld in
formation from the American 
people beyond security reasons
4.1 believe that the United States 
should :
a. recognize the NLF and agree 
to include them in negotiations
b. Refuse to recognize the NLF, 
because they have no legitimate 
claim to the government
Mobay is the place where young chemists can grow. As the leader in the field 
of urethane chemistry, the company offers exciting opportunities to expand 
in whatever direction you choose at the same time you apply what you've already 
learned. At Mobay, youll work in an environment characterized by a strong 
emphasis on individual ability, where you can trade ideas with talented, 
experienced associates and utilize the most advanced facilities. And youll be 
helping to pioneer in a stimulating area whose applications have already 
multiplied to the extent that they significantly affect almost every major 
industry today. Mobay representatives will be on your campus in your 
Placement Office for talks with you on: March 21 st, 1967.
PRINCIPAL AREAS OF INTEREST INCLUDE:
CHEMICAL 
ENGINEERS
PROCESS ENGINEER
Conduct economic and process studies in 
existing production units; recommend and 
facilitate needed process changes; assist in 
start up of oew process equipment. (Loca
tion: New Martinsville, West Virginia)
APPLICATIONS RESEARCH
Personality suited for dealing with custom
ers in the area of cellular and non-cellular 
urethanes, polyesters and elastomers. (Loca
tion: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
PROJECT ENGINEERS
Responsible for the engineering design of 
capital additions; provide equipment speci
fications for procurement and mechanical 
design of facilities; prepare economic analy
sis; maintain cost control of projects and 
carry out special assignments. (Location: 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
CHEMISTS
Perform applications research work in coat
ings, foam applications, isocyanates and 
elastomer processes. These positions also 
entail customer service work. (Location: 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERS
Design of industrial plant, electrical power 
distribution systems, controls circuits and 
lighting systems; establish maintenance 
schedules and procedures on all electrical 
equipment; conduct load surveys on existing 
power distribution systems. (Location: New 
Martinsville, West Virginia)
MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERS
In applications research section, work with 
small scale precision machinery encoun
tered in the rubber and plastics industry; 
work also requires some customer-contact. 
(Location: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
SALES 
REPRESENTATIVES
Any engineering degree applicable if person 
is interested in industrial sales; duties in
clude developing and maintaining direct field 
contact with potential and established cus
tomers. (Approximately one year training 
program in Pittsburgh before entering field.)
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE.
TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1967
W. E. White, Personnel Administrator
MOBAY CHEMICAL COMPANY
Penn Lincoln Parkway West 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15205
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Tech Drama Lecturer Hill 
Aids Next Playhouse Work
Despite internal feuds, resigning board members, and 
a resigning Artistic Director, the Pittsburgh Playhouse has 
announced the opening of its next presentation. Anton 
Chekhovs famous drama The Three Sisters will begin March 
10 in The Craft Avenue Theater under the supervision of 
Thomas Hill, guest lecturer in Carnegie Techs Drama De
partment.
Hill has worked professionally 
both as an actor and director in 
theaters from Provincetown, 
Mass. to Seattle, Washington. He 
received his undergraduate train
ing in theater at Oberlin College, 
studied two years at Yale and 
completed his graduate work at 
Western Reserve University in 
Cleveland.
Mr. Hills directing experience 
includes directing assignments at 
the Seattle Repertory Theatre, 
Cleveland Playhouse, American 
Theatre Company, American Fes
tival and Provincetown Play
house. As an actor Hill perform
ed on Broadway in Legend of 
Sarah. His off-Broadway credits 
include Beggars Opera and 
Right You Are if you Tnink 
So. He also acted in productions 
at the Seattle Repertory Theatre, 
Cleveland Playhouse, Group 20- 
Theatre on the Green, Arena 
Stage, Brandeis Forum Theatre 
and the Boston Arts Festival. He 
has acted in Summer Stock at 
the Theatre by the Sea (Matunuck, R. I.), Bermuda Repertory 
Theatre (Cape May, N. J.) and 
Chautauqua, N.Y. The movie 
screen has also seen Mr. Hill in 
The Slender Thread with Ann 
Bancroft.
Prior to coming to Carnegie 
Tech in 1965 as a guest lecturer 
in drama, Hill served in the same
capacity at the University of 
Washington in Seattle.
The play is a tender, rueful ac
count of the downfall of an upperclass family defeated by their 
own charming, weak and snob
bish naturesthree sisters and a 
brother who think they would 
find happiness if only they could 
escape from the small town 
where they have been stranded 
by the death of their father. 
They yearn for the bright lights 
and gayer life of Moscow that 
they knew in adolescence, al
though what they really want to 
reach is not a city but a ful
fillment that is lacking in their 
lives.
The leading roles of the three 
sisters who feel the stagnation 
of a small town in 19th century 
Russia will be played by Wini
fred Mann (Olga), Anne Gerety 
(Masha), and Carolee Camplee 
(Irina). This dramatization of 
the tedium and frustration of a 
provincial town was first pre
sented in Stanislavskys famed 
Moscow Art Theater in 1901.
Others in the Playhouse cast 
include Charles Duming as Andrey, the victimized brother of 
the three sisters and Gretchen 
Oehler as Natasha, the vulgar ob
noxious woman he has foolishly 
married.
(Continued on Page 9)
Pittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 
3 FINE STORES
xcLive at fobert
DIAMONDRINGS
LANAI.............................FROM $100
A diamond solataire that fits close to the finger yet gives the diamond an 
Up in the Air" appearance in 18 Kt. White Gold Worlds finest diamonds 
to fit your budget. Terms arranged
WorlcTs Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budgetl
JOHN NI.R0W.fUS SON (
Pittsburgh429 Wood St. 
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 8, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 7
I Do Believe In Hollywood .
The Oscar Nominations
by Stan Thomas
Once a year an organization known as the Academy of Motion 
picture Arts and Sciences convenes in the Santa Monica Public Aud
itorium to bestow a golden statuette on those who have given the best 
performances of the year  usually in a motion picture. The 
Oscars are a teiumph of what Hollywood does best: making a spectacle 
of itself. All the press agents convene to convince the rest of the 
world that Hollywood is indeed a real place and is still the center 
of the motion picture industrywhich it is indeed. Hollywood 
mass-produces motion pictures. Of the five films nominated for Best 
picture, only one is directly connected with a major Hollywood studio 
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? which was a Warner Brothers pro
ject although the production enjoyed considerable independence. Win
ning an Oscar means additional revenue for the film, re-issue if the 
initial release was early in the year, and prestige. It is often possible 
to predict the winners without having seen the films involved since 
the awards are 90 per cent politics and 10 per cent achievement.
Therefore, I shall go out on a very small limb and predict just 
who will pick up some of the golden statuettes on the night of April 
10. Of the five actresses nominated, I think Elizabeth Taylor will v/in 
the honors for her performance in Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
The excellence of her performance was only topped by her make-up, 
which almost clinches the award for the now-respectable Mrs. Bur
ton. Her closest competition are the Redgrave sistersVanessa for 
Morgan! and Lynn for Georgy GirL Both girls are very popular at the 
moment, but are outside of the Hollywood field. Anouk Aimee has 
already won ah acting award at Cannes for A Man and a Woman and 
Ida Kaminska, the old woman in The Shop on Main Street, seems to 
be a sentimental choice.
The race for Best Actor is a bit more complicated. Although I 
think Paul Scofield will win for his performance in A Man for All 
Seasons all of the other nominees have good chances for various 
reasons: Richard Burton, because his performance in Virginia Woolf 
was good and he is married to Liz Taylor; Steve McQueen, because 
his role in The Sand Pebbles is his first big role in a major film and 
because he is a Hollywood cult figure; Alan Arkin, because hies a 
new-comer, The Russians are Coming, Etc. being his first film; and 
Michael Caine, because hes popular, Alfie having done for him what 
Tom Jones did for Albert Finney. However Scofield leads the race.
A Man for All Seasons will be the champion film this year. It 
will win the Best Picture honors and also the directing award for 
Fred Zinneman, even though I would like to see it go to Michaelangelo Antonioni for Blow-Up. Well, at least he was nominated.
I could not let the one hundredth week of The Sound of Music 
pass without commenting on what has become the biggest phen
omenon since Gone With The Wind. As if in retaliation, Metro-Goldwyn Mayer is re-releasing Gone With The Wind expanded into 70mm 
and rechanneled into stereophonic sound.
The nomination for the award is actually of greater significance 
than the winner since nominations are made by members of the 
Academy in their own fields. Actors nominate other actors; technitians nominate other technicians. Everyone, however votes for 
Best Picture and consequently the choices are rather odd: The Sand 
Pebbles; The Russians are Coming, The Russians are Coming; Alfie1, 
Virginia Woolf; and A Man for All Seasons. The final voting is done 
by all the members and the results will be out on the night of April 
10 when Hollywood will come to life and try to convince all con
cerned that it is not a mythical kingdom after all.
Heinz Award 
To Subsidize 
Foreign Travel
A new study grant, the 
Vera Heinz Award, has been 
instituted to enable a wom
an student to travel abroad 
between her junior and sen
ior years. The purpose of the 
$1,000 award is to have an 
articulate and perceptive 
young lady gain first-hand 
knowledge of international 
understanding and share hei 
experience with other mem
bers of the college commun 
ity upon her return for her 
senior year.
Interested junior women may 
obtain application forms and ad
ditional information in the Finan
cial Aid Office, Warner Hall. The 
deadline for submission of the 
completed forms is Tuesday, 
March 21. A winner and three al
ternates will be selected and an
nounced on Friday, March 31.
The application includes sec
tions on itinerary, budget, courses 
of study, and the reasons for 
wishing to undertake the pro
gram. Financial need will not be 
a criterion. However, if it be
comes a factor, the applicant 
should discuss the situation v/ith 
Peter Nachtwey, Director of Fi
nancial Aid.
Meet The Faculty
There are three remaining op
portunities for students to meet 
with faculty on an informal bas
is at the International Firesides. 
These programs attempt to bring 
together foreign students, Ameri
can students, and faculty for an 
evening of informal, non-profes
sional discussion and confersation.
The faculty provide the living 
rooms and join freely in conver
sations which may range from 
U.S. foreign policy to dormitory 
regulations. Hosts for the re
maining friesides are: Prof. Lapis, 
MMS, March 12; Prof. Day, Civil 
Engineering, April 9; and Prof. 
DoBeneditti, Physics, April 23. 
Students may sign up in Room 57, 
Skibo.
Inoefh r mabafh
PIZZERIA
with the flying Pizza
SPECIAL 
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG 682-8691
Tech To Hear 
An Alternative 
To Death-of-God
Professor Langdon Gilkey, 
a theologian who is critical 
of the Death-of-God theo
logy, will speak on Human 
Existence and the Reality of 
God in Skibo Ballroom at 
4:30 pm March 16.
Dr. Gilkey will eat dinner with 
interested people at 6 pm and 
v/ill be available for informal dis
cussion at 8 pm in the Highlander 
Room.
Currently associated with the 
University of Chicago Divinity 
School, Dr. Gilkey speaks from 
the nee-orthodox point of 
view which has dominated 
Protestantism since the thirties. 
This view holds that God in 
wholly other than his crea
tion; radical theology, on the 
other hand, holds that such 
thinking has caused God to be
come highly demonic to peo
ple and thus foreign to human 
experience.
Dr. Gilkey argues his views in 
his book Maker of Heaven and 
Earth, which deals with God as 
the creator. In a more recent 
book, Shantung Compound, Dr. 
Gilkey evolves a realistic view 
of man based on his experiences 
in a Japanese prison camp on 
mainland China during WW II. 
Those ideas oppose and the op
timism about human history 
which the Death-of-God theolo
gians see.
Those wishing to meet Profes
sor Gilkey at the March 16 din
ner may sign up at the Office of 
Religious Affairs, Skibo 57.
Conl.m C^ommentary
The Longer Day
by Linda Pecaites
Every semester Tech students have the headache of composing 
a schedule from a raft of computer-designed course schedulings and 
the largest problem which faces them is that it is impossible to take 
two courses at the same hours. The only solutions available to the 
student are to either take the course in night school, if it is offered 
there, or to find another course to schedule.
The administration can hardly be held responsible for the di
lemma since they must orient a steadily increasing number of 
courses in a limited amount of time. In a school such as Tech with 
its small number of students and yet diversified programs, the de
mand for most courses is so small that they will have only one or 
two sections. With courses being offered so few times during the 
day, there are always students who find that two courses that they 
want to take are offered at the same time and only at that time.
THE PROBLEM IS GREATLY COMPOUNDED by the College 
Engineering and Sciences scheduling methods, for the computer pro
gram for scheduling E&S courses is written basically independent 
of the liberal arts scheduling.
One of the most easily initiated methods of rectifying the prob
lem would be to expand the school day from 8 am to 5 pm, giving 
five more hours of scheduling a week. This has been advocated by 
members of the E&S administration for several years now.
THE MAJOR ARGUMENT against such a change has been that 
when Saturday classes were dropped several years ago, it was for 
the purpose of giving students a chance to engage in extracurricu
lar activities and for the same reason, the school should end at 
4:30 am. The major late afternoon student activity has been intra
scholastic athletics. The fall sports such as IM football and soccer 
could not be played after dark but with the addition of lights to 
the playing field, this no longer presents a problem.
The other major activity which frequently uses the 4:30 am hour 
is fraternity and sorority meetings, which could be scheduled a halfan-hour later without major inconveniences.
The advantages of the extra five hours far outweigh the dis
advantage of classes extended over a longer period of time. The 
change would not only permit much more flexibility and less con
flict in scheduling, but also, the change would provide more class
room space. With the advent of the university, both of these needs 
will be no longer be able to be ignored.
YM&WHA Lecture Series
Examines Modern Life
Four lectures scheduled to take place at the YM & WHA next week will begin 
examining modern life in a variety of waysby viewing it through art, love and life, 
Marshall MacLuhan, and ESP. All lectures are free and will begin at 8:15 in the YM & 
WHA building, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue between Fifth and Forbes in Oakland.
The lectures begin Monday 
night, March 13, with The Pri
vate Vision: Art, Alienation, and 
Aloneness by Dr. Beekman Cot
trell, Head of Humanities and As
sociate Professor of English at 
Carnegie Tech. Dr. Cottrell is 
offering a six-part exploration of 
modern life with emphasis on 
the intellectual forces which have 
shaped the last hundred years.
He will also show how literature, 
painting, the film, and the thea
ter reflect these forces.
At this lecture, Dr. Cottrell 
will also present a slide-tape,
Modem Art, created by Dr. 
Martin Engel of the History De
partment at Carnegie Tech.
Dr. E. Joseph Charney, psychi
atrist, psychoanalyst, and Assis
tant Professor of Psychiatry at 
Pitts School of Medicine, will be
gin his series on Love and Life: 
Where It All Comes From on 
Tuesday, March 14. Dr. Charny 
will discuss the sexuality and de
pendency of mother and child on 
the basis of human family.
Rubinstein on MacLuhan 
Understanding MacLuhan 
Communications Media and Con
temporary Culture will be the 
topic of a series of lectures by 
Dr. Richard L. Rubinstein, Rab
bi, author, and chaplain to Jew
ish students in Pittsburgh. Dr. 
Rubinstein, who recently appear
ed at Carnegie Tech in a discus
sion with Dr. Thomas Altizer on 
radical theology and the Death 
oi God, turns now to a consider
ation of the changes in contem
porary culture which have re
sulted from the revolutions in 
human communication.
Going To New York?
For Easter Vacation Travel to New York 
By Chartered Bus.
The Bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, March 22nd 
(to arrive at the Port Authority Terminal at 1:00 a.m.) and will be returning from 
Sloane House (Y.M.C.A. on 34th Street) at 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 28Hi 
(avoiding crowds and delays at the Terminal).
Write your Check to STEPHEN WEINREICH for $17.50 (Round Trip) or 
$10.00 (One Way) and Send it to BOX 250, CAMPUS MAIL.
... STEVE WEINREICH, BOX 250
VU See You On The Bus!
(No refunds for cancellations after March 17. 1967)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN*Wednesday, March 8, 1967
ENGINEERS
Interested in ENGINEERING of INDUSTRIAL PLANT FACILITIES 
or FIELD ENGINEERING on CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
You are invited to discuss your career opportunities inTHE RUST ENGINEERING COMPANY
PITTSBURGH, PA. (Headquarters) - BIRMINGHAM, ALA.  CALHOUN, TENN.
Construction Projects The World Over
Rust offers you unusual opportunities because of its growth anc diversity. 
The Company has performed more than 10,000 contracts in 48 states and 
22 foreign countries for most industries and government agencies.
WARD SPEER. Wednesday, March 15.will be on campus______________LL.___________
to interview interested civil, mechanical, electrical (power option), and archi
tectural engineering students. Make appointment through placement office.
ASK PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR BOOKLET, "Your Doorway to Diversified Engineering and Contract
ing, which describes in detail the career opportunities available at Rust.
WRCT...
(Continued from page 1)
COLLEGE TOTALS: 
COLLEGE 
Engineering and ScienceFine Arts...............................
MMCC....................................
AMS........................................
CLASS PERCENTAGES:
CLASS
Freshman.................................
Sophomore...............................
Junior.......................................
Senior........................................
Survey Percentage CIT Percentage
63.8 53.2
14.3 22.7
14.8 15.9
4.6 8.3
Survey Percentage
51.8 21.1
15.8
Rooms with radios....................AM: 91.7%
TOP FIVE RADIO STATIONS:
STATION
KQV-AM...............................................
KDKA-AM...........................................
WTAE....................................................
WYDD...................................................
WKJF...................................................
8.6
52.3%NO.......46.3%.41.4%NO.......56.1%
52.4%NO.......44.3%
FM: 50.0%
On at TimeNormallyof SurveyListened to
57.5%55.3%
7.4%12.1%
10.'%10.2%
4.5%4.3%
8.1%3.1%
CE, ChE. IE, ME or EE
(MBAs with BS in Engineering)
CHARMIN PAPER PRODUCTS CO.
(A subsidiary of Procter & Gamble)
will interview for positions in 
manufacturing management
MARCH 16 and 17
FIVE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD BE INTERESTED:
Substantial early responsibility. Within six months after you join us, you will
V be given full charge of an engineering staff position or direct responsibility 
for a production unit or department with equipment valued in excess of a 
million dollars.
Opportunity to advance, unexcelled. We promote only on a basis of merit,
? and a good engineer can advance very fast.
Youll be in a great basic industry that's entering a period of new growth. 
Charmin engineers have already contributed outstanding breakthroughs in 
improving product qualities. We are seeking the same kind of bold thinking 
in our new hires for manufacturing and engineering management.
Experience is not necessary. Well train you.
Choice of three locations: Green Bay, Wisconsin; Cheboygan, Michigan; or
V our new plant at Mehoopany, Pennsylvania. Youll be located in the heart of 
some of the greatest hunting and fishing country in the world.
Sign up at your Placement Office now. We want to talk with you even 
though you have commitments to Graduate School or to Military Service!
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
TOTAL ROCK AND ROLL STATIONS:
On at time of Survey......................66.0%Normally listened to................-........73.0%
LENGTH OF NEWSCAST PREFERRED (per hour) :
None at all ......................................5.6% Five minute ....
One minute .................................8.9% . Fifteen minute
-78.1%
-7.4%
Programming Preferences (The student was given a chance to tell what he would 
and would not like to hear on radio, regardless of his present listening habits.) :
CATEGORY
Classical Music...........................................................-.............
Critical Talk Shows.................................................................
Dramatic Presentations.........................................................
Middle of the Road..........-......................................................
Poetry Readings........................................................................
Rock and Roll............................................................................
Show Music-------------------------------------------------------------------
1st and 2ndParticularly
ChoiceDislike
30.2%14.0%
4.5%28.2%
2.3%38.0%
24.6%9.8%
28.8%10.9%
18.2%15.9%
2.3%62.6%
56.3%8.7%
28.2%10.9%
This week, explore engineering opportunities as big as todays brand new ocean
Talk with on-campus Career Consultant from Newport Newsworlds largest shipbuilding companyinvolved with 
nuclear propulsion, aircraft carrier design, submarine build
ing, oceanographic development, marine automation, all 
the challenging advances on today's brand new ocean. The 
New York TIMES calls this the last earthbound frontier with profit possibilities as big as the sea.
Learn what our half-a-billion-dollar order backlog means to
you in terms of high starting salary and years of career 
security with no lid on your future. With orders up 
$80,000,000 in five months, our need is urgent for imagina
tive men in all the disciplines listed here. Men who like tough challenges and individual responsibility.
Ask about opportunities for advanced degrees and research.
Were next door to Virginia Associated Research Center with 
one of the worlds largest synchrocyclotrons, where grad
uate engineers study high energy physics. Were across the harbor from Old Dominion College, offering graduate 
courses in Microwave Theory, Solid State Electronics, Nu
clear Engineering. Nearby, too, is the Extension Division 
of the University of Virginia offering courses toward credits 
for masters degrees. And within easy driving is The Vir
ginia Institute for Scientific Research, a world leader in 
solid state physics. Linked up with these opportunities, 
Newport News offers scholarships, tuition grants, advanced 
study and research leaves. Ask about them.
Get the facts on pleasant living and lower living costs here 
in the heart of Virginias seaside vacationland with its superb beaches, golf, fishing, boating, hunting.
IMMEDIATE ENGINEERING CAREER OPENINGS
Mechanical Engineers 
Electrical Engineers 
Marine Engineers 
Industrial Engineers 
Systems Analysts
Naval Architects 
Nuclear Engineers 
Civil Engineers 
Metallurgical Engineers
Mr. W. D. Vining 
Our Career Consultant,
will be at the Placement Office on Thursday, March 9, 
to answer questions, talk over qualifications, take applications for fast action.
Itfewport Xews
NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING AND DRY DOCK COMPANY, NEWPORT NEWS. VIRGINIAAn Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 8, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 9
Carmichael..
(Continued
problem. Advocates of integra
tion feel that social justice will 
be accomplished by integrating 
the Negro into the mainstream in
stitutions of the society from 
which he has traditionally been 
excluded. Carmichael rejects 
this concept of integration be
cause it is based on the assump
tion that there is nothing of val
ue in the black community, and 
that little of value could be cre
ated among black people.
The major limitation of this 
approach, he said, is that it 
tends to maintain the tradi
tional dependence of blacks 
and of the movementwe are 
dependent upon the good will 
and support of various groups 
within the white community, 
whose interests are not always 
compatible with ours, and to 
the extent that we depend up
on that support, we are in
fluenced and vulnerable to its 
control and domination.
Carmichael feels that the goal 
oi integration is limited and in
adequate. He said, Its goal is to 
make the white community ac
cessible to qualified Negroes, 
and presumably, each year, a 
few more Negroes, armed with 
their passportsa couple of uni
versity degreeswill escape into 
white middle-class America, adopt 
the attitudes and life styles of 
that community, and alas, one 
day, the Harlems and the Watts 
will stand emptya tribute to the 
success of integration. This is 
simply neither realistic nor is it 
particularly desirable. Its results 
would not be to develop the 
black community as a functional 
and honorable segment of the tofrom Page 3)
tal society, with its own cultural 
identity, life patterns, and in
stitutions, but to abolish it, the 
final solution to the race problem 
in this country. What must be 
abolished is not the black com
munity, but the colonial status 
that has been afflicted upon it. 
The racial and cultural personal
ity of the black community must 
be preserved.
Negroes Lack Organization
Concerning race riots and vio
lence, Carmichael said, These 
arent the cause of black power, 
but of the absence of any organi
zation capable of giving the com
munity the power - the black 
powerit needs to deal with its 
problems. The Student Nonviolent 
Committee proposes that it is now 
time for the black liberation 
movement to stop pandering to 
the fears and anxieties of the 
white middle class in an attempt 
to earn its good will, and to re
turn to the ghetto to organize 
these communities and control 
themselves/'
Carmichael concluded his 
speech with the following state
ment: The ghettos can become 
either concentration camps with 
a bitter population, whose only 
power is the power to destroy, or 
organized and powerful commun
ities able to make constructive 
contributions to the total society. 
"Without the power, the black 
power, to control our lives and 
our communities, these commun
ities will exist in a constant state 
of insurrection. This is a choice 
that white America will have to 
make.
The man fromUnivac is on campus
MARCH 14, 1967
If youre interested in building a career 
with the leading technological innovator 
in the computer business, dont fail to 
drop by and chat with our representative.
Hell give you the full UNIVAC story.
How fast were growing. And how fast 
you can grow with us in Engineering,
Programming, Accounting, or Marketing. 
Opportunities exist in the East,
Mid West and West.
Arrange an appointment with your 
Placement Director now.
UNIVAC
OtVISION OP ANO CO**0ATION
P. O. Box 8100  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Chekhov * ? ?
(Continued from Page 6)
Ron Colby portrays Kluygin, 
the bumbling husband of Masha, 
and William Hansen is cast as 
Chebutykin, cynical old doctor 
friend of the family. The family 
servants Ferapant and Aufisa are 
played by Marshal E f r e n and 
Catherine Gabrielson; Baker 
Salsbury (Feodotik) and Steve 
Wyman (Rode) are two pleasureloving army officers.
The only current Playhouse 
production is Two for the Seesaw 
now in the Hamlet Street The
ater and closing March 5. Reserv
ed seats for all productions may 
be obtained by calling 621--4445. 
All productions begin at 8:30 
r.ightly except the 7:30 Sunday 
production.
Three Rivers
(Continued from Page 5) 
uals, business associations, the 
City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny 
County. The Festivals location 
is the plazas and lobbies of Gate
way Center through the generosity 
of the Equitable Life Assurance 
Society of the United States.
Greek Week 
Schedule
Monday, March 13Greek Sing 
Rehearsal, 5:30-9 pm Carnegie 
Music Hall
Tuesday, March 14Joint CFPPanhel meeting, 10 pm Skibo
Wednesday, March 15CFP Com
mittee Meetings, 8 pm Social 
chairmen-BTP StewardsTDP 
Treasurers-ATO House Managers-SN
Friday, March 17Greek Sing, 8 
pm Carnegie Music Hall
Saturday, March 18Greek Swing 
Dinner-Dance, 6:45 pm Pitts
burgh Hilton Featuring J. Mae
stro & the Crests 11:30 pmAwards
Sunday, March 19Open Fratern
ity Houses, 2-5 pm
Metals Prof* 
Gets Grant
Dr. Paul Shewmon, profes
sor of metallurgy and ma
terials science, has received 
a $21,000 grant from the 
United States Navy for basic 
research in metal transfor 
mation processes.
Dr. Shewmon and his graduate 
students are studying the method 
by which precipitate (carbide) 
crystals unite with parent (iron) 
crystals at very high tempera
tures. Dr. Shewmon became inter
ested in transformation process
es when his observations indicat
ed modes of transformation dif
ferent from those always suppos
ed by traditional metallurgical 
theory.
In his experiments, Dr. 
Shewmon rapidly heats a thin 
wire to very high temperatures 
and then observes the transfor
mation by means of electrical 
resistance measurements. 
Though other researchers are 
interested in this problem, 
none are employing techniques 
______(Continued on Page 11)
Fill yourself in 
on the career opportunities 
at AC Electronics.
down
1. This Midwestern, vacationland, gateway 
city is the headquarters for AC Electronics.
2. You could be contributing to the success 
of this ballistic missile.
4. You can play an important part in devel
oping the guidance, navigation and control 
system for this manned space venture.
across
3. You might be working on the guidance/ 
control system for this manned space 
project.
5. You can be associated with the Com
pany that is the leader in this scientific field.
ANSWERS ON PAGE 11
If you filled in the puzzle correctly, youve probably guessed were in the business of guiding 
vehicles. If it floats, crawls, flies or orbits, chances are were at work on a guidance, navigation 
or control system for it.
For instance, were building the guidance/navigation system for Apolto and LM (Lunar Module); 
were working on SABRE, the new Self-Aligning Boost and Reentry system for missiles; on the 
Manned Orbiting Laboratory (MOL); on the Titan lll-C Space Booster; and on avionics systems 
for supersonic and subsonic aircraft of the future.
Were also working on the Ships Self-Contained Navigation System (SSCNS) for the Navy; a 
fire-control system for the new Main Battle Tank, a joint U.S.-Federal Republic of Germany 
program; and advanced digital computer development for other military, space and commercial 
applications.
You might like to know that we take your career growth seriously here at AC, too. Our Career 
Acceleration Program includes "in-plant instruction. There is also a Tuition Refund Plan 
available for any college-level courses taken to advance your career.
If youre completing your B.S. or M.S. degree in E.E., M E., Math or Physics, check into the excit
ing career opportunities at any of our three locations - Milwaukee, Boston, and Santa Barbara. 
See your college placement officer or write: Mr. R.W. Schroeder, Dir. of Scientific & Professional 
Employment, AC Electronics Division, Dept. 5753, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201.
Ph.D.s, please note: positions are available in all three AC locations, depending upon concen
tration of study and area of interest.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
Wednesday, March 22, 1967
^ AC ELECTRONICS
(Ai
DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORSAN COUAI OIPO*TUNlTV EMPCOVIH M A P

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, March 8, 1967
Student Quartets 
Perform Works 
At Duquesne U.
The Pittsburgh Flute Club 
will present the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology String 
Ensemble under the direc
tion of George Grossman on 
March 12, Sunday evening, 
at 8:30 pm in Room 206 in 
the School of Music of Du
quesne University at Locust 
and Magee Sts. on the BluffThere is no admission charge 
for the concert. The public 
is invited.
The program will include Dvor
aks String Quartet in F major, 
the American, with Marilyn Sax
on and Carolin Marzke, violins; 
Judith Willman, viola; and Dar
lene Amann, cello. The Shostako
vich String Quartet No. 1 will 
be played by Kristine Jorgenson 
and Maurice McCall, violins; Da
vid Beswarick, viola; and Peter 
Dundon, cello.
Members and guests are invited
Registration For 
May 16 Primary
Students who will be 21 years of 
age on or before May 17, 1967 are 
eligible to register for the May
16 primary elections and referen
da. The final date for registration, 
change of party affilation, rein
statement, or change of address 
is March 27.
The County Office Building, 
Forbes Ave. and Ross St. in 
Downtown Pittsburgh is open for 
registrations between 9 am and 
4 pm, Monday through Friday 
and 9 am to noon on Saturday.
The May 16 elections are pri
mary elections for a variety of 
city and county offices; eight ref
erenda on amendments the Penn
sylvania constitution are also up 
for approval. No party affiliation 
is required for the referenda.
to participate in the pre-concert 
informal chamber music session 
which begins at 6:45 pm. For in
formation, call 561-0894.
Engineers and Scientists:
SAIL UNCHARTED SEAS WITH PHILCO
Philco is committed to advancing the state of almost 
every technical artfrom engineering to manufactur
ing, from anti-weapons systems to underwater com
munications, from space age instrumentation to 
home air conditioning. Because we are accustomed 
to working in advance of everyone else, we don't 
always know exactly where our course may take us 
except that it is forward. And we need bright, 
creative, ambitious people to help take us there.
Some other facts about Philco: We are a major sub
sidiary of Ford Motor Company. We are a company 
fast approaching $1 billion in annual sales, to con
sumer, industrial and government markets. We offer 
stimulation, responsibility, and above all, a bright 
future.
If youd like to join us in a fast-paced, rewarding 
career position, wed like to talk to you. We will be 
visiting your campus on March 13 and 14. Contact 
your Placement Office. Stop by and talk to us about 
your future or write to College Relations, Philco 
Corporation. C & Tioga Sts., Philadelphia, Pa. 19134.
PHILCO WILL BE HERE ON MARCH 13 AND 14
Career opportunities available on, the East Coast, the Midwest, the 
Southwest, the West Coast, and throughout the world.
Divisions: Aeronutronic  Appliance  Communications <f Electronics  
Consumer Electronics  International  Lansdale  Microelectronics  
Sales <t Distribution  TechRep  Western Development Laboratories
PHILCO
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Sikorsky 
Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER 
of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now 
for an appointment.
Tuesday, March 21
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Stratford. Conn.  Division of United Aircraft Corp.  An Equal Opportunity Employer 
_________________LULL!_________________________________________________________________________________________
WE ARE BACK 
IN FULL OPERATION 
WITH A NEW PLANT
Newest and the Most Modern Equipment. 
We offer our Visual Fast Service without Sacri
ficing Quality.
1 HOUR DRY CLEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT SERVICE
SAME DAY ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET (near Craig) 
Open Daily 8 to 8 
Saturday 8 to 6

---------------------------------------------------

NOW HEAR THIS...
If you are an engineer, looking 
for a good job opportunity 
in the near future 
it will pay you to read on...
Ingersoll-Rand now has excellent 
career opportunities available to you 
in many fields of engineering.
Ingersoll-Rand is one of the worlds 
leading manufacturers of industrial 
and construction machinery and 
labor-aiding toolsincluding air and 
gas compressors, pumps, steam tur
bines, steam condensers, rock drills, 
mining machinery, air and electric 
tools and precision hand tools. I-R 
products serve every major industry 
throughout the entire free world.
Engineering careers are now avail
able to you in any of the following 
fields of activity
Sales Engineering 
Design Engineering 
Product Engineering 
Research and Development 
Plant Engineering 
Business Engineering 
Systems Analysis 
The men we are looking for will 
have at least one, and preferably 
more than one of the following qual
ifications:
Ingersoll-Rand
Bachelors Degree in Engineering 
Masters Degree in
Business Administration 
Masters Degree in Engineering 
Bachelor of Arts or Master of 
Arts with technical back
ground or inclination
Whats in it for you?
A growing opportunity in a growing 
company, with 16 manufacturing 
plants, 60 sales offices and 16 sub
sidiary companies throughout the 
world.
Benefits include specialized job 
training programs, stability of em
ployment, advancement on merit, re
tirement plan, group life insurance, 
travel accident plan, health insurance 
plans and liberal vacations. And an 
educational assistance program that 
reimburses you for a major part of 
your tuition, if you plan on furthering 
your education.
Our representatives will be on cam
pus for interviews on MARCH 14th 
See your placement Director for inter
view appointment.
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sports Editor
ANSWERS 
to the AC Career Anagram 
on page 9:
Wednesday, March 8, 1967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 11
If you havent yet found the answer to 
choosing your own career, consider the 
unusual opportunities offered by AC.
Take another close look at our ad on page 9 
Then lets hear from you.
^riS AC ELECTRONICS
DIVISION O* COENEAl_ MOTORS
AN CQU*L 0**0TUNT* KMFlOVCM M A F
Riflers Close 
15-1 Season
The Tartan rifle team closed out 
its regular schedule last Sat
urday with a victory, 1399-1390, 
over Indiana University at In
diana, their 15th victory against 
one defeat. Furthermore they 
closed it out in first place, thanks 
to a Pitt victory over Clarion 
State Teachers College who, until 
this week, was tied with the 
Tartans for first place. The only 
match remaining for Tech is their 
sectional, for which theyll travel 
to Annapolis, Maryland, on the 
17th, 18th, and 19th of March.
Making up the top five sharp
shooters in the victory over In
diana were Ted Mankovich (285), 
Dick Damberg (281), Fred Klein 
(281), Eric Sandgren (278), and 
Leighton Westlake (274).
Metals Prof . ? ?
(Continued, from Page 9)
similar to those used by Shewmon.
Although his present studies 
are largely theoretical, Dr. Shewmon believes his research will 
have long-range practical appli
cations in the eventual discovery 
cf better methods for manufac
turing high-strength metals. Such 
metals are used by the Navy, for 
instance, in the construction of 
submarine hulls and jet engines.
Dr. Shewmon received h i s 
bachelors degree in metallurgy 
from the University of Illinois 
and his advanced degrees from 
Carnegie Tech. He has taught 
here since 1958; previously, he 
was a research engineer at the 
Westinghouse Research Labora
tories.
People often ask me Why doesnt Tech enter a conference? 
Ive asked several people who should know the answer and the 
standard answer I get is that Tech wouldnt stand a chance in either 
of the two existing conferences in this area. They claim that we 
would be unable to compete on an equal basis with the teams in these 
conferences. This, I claim, is not true.
The two local conferences are the Presidents and the West 
Penn. The Presidents consists of such teams as W & J, John Carroll, 
Bethany, Thiel, Allegheny, and Western Reserve. The West Penn 
consists of Geneva, Westminister, Grove City, St. Vincents and other 
small Western Pennsylvania colleges. I find it extremely hard to be
lieve that it would be hard for us to compete with these schools for 
the simple fact that these are the schools which we are constantly 
competing with.
Judging by the performance in all athletic events in the past 
two years, I can see that Tech would not have won the conference 
title in either of these leagues, but theyd have been far from last 
too. Admittedly they would finish low in conference football, but they 
would on the other hand, be the tops in such sports as cross-country, 
rifle, and swimming. Last year they would have won the conference 
title in basketball in either of these conferences, and wouldnt be 
doing so poorly this year either.
This being the case, I am forced to believe that Tech is unwilling 
to join a conference for no good reason at all. Some schools do not 
join conferences to enable themselves to play a more diverse 
schedule, but this is obviously not the case here for, in general, we 
play nothing but conference teams. The only good reason I can think 
of is that it is beneath the dignity of this school to be associated 
in the same league as schools which are obviously inferior in educa
tional standards. If this is the case, I would suggest that more work 
be done in developing the conference that many people feel would 
solve this problem.
This conference would consist of schools with smaller educa
tional standards and athletic policy. It would consist of such schools 
as Carnegie Tech, M.I.T., Cal Tech, R.P.I., and Case Tech. Non-Conference games would be played against such schools as the nonathletic oriented Ivy league schools of Harvard, Brown, and the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania.
The arguments against such action are, of course, time and 
money, but, to me, it seems apparent that only this kind of league 
will satisfy everyone.
Carnegie Tech should be in a conference. It is difficult to sup
port any team whose only goal in winning is an improved record 
over last year.
Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
Tau Delt guard gets off a shot over the E. J. Bruins defense 
in IM playoff game. Bruins won.
I.M. basketball playoffs 
become tighter. Seven of the 
> less than ten points.
In the major leagues, Moise 
scored 17 points for GSIA M, 
tut it wasnt enough as a wellrounded ATO A team downed 
them, 49-44.
Oliver with 20 points led the 
Civil Hammers to a 52-34 victory 
over SN Gold.
PKA A defated the F troop,
I 48-45, despite a 15-point output 
by Miklojcik for the losers.
The Chem E Math Grads down
ed GSIA E, 55-53, led by Gold
stein with 24 points. Johnson had 
22 for the losers.
The EJ Bruins trounced TDP 
A, 62-21. Kavchak had 19 
points.
have begun, and games have 
eleven games were decided by
GSIA C beat the Met Knights, 
39-33, as Werronen scored 17 
points.
BTP A defeated ATO FF,
46-29, as both Klein and Barbin 
scored 15.
To round out the first round 
matches the Grad Physics squeak
ed by the SAE Lion, 41-40, 
largely due to 24 points by Osterhuis.
The Minor League Champions 
are the Welch Hall Wipeouts as 
they defeated the EJ Dislocation, 
42-33, and the Civil Hammers,
47-24. Goyak scored 13 points in
both games. The Civil Hammers 
had previously defeated the Chinese Bandits, 31-27.______________
IM Review

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, March 8, 1967
Tartans End Season 12-11;
Kalin Completes Stand-Out Career
by Jim Janke
The CIT basketball team last week pounded John Carroll 86-53 before bowing to Pitt 
69-55, to finish with a 12-11 record. Jeff Kalin finished with a career total of 1194 points 
(unofficial) to make him the second highest scorer in CIT basketball history. Moe Fassnger put together a varied attack and a good defense to make his first year as head coach
Tartan Photo by Mark KaminskyJeff Kalin (40), who ended his career as the second-highest scorer in 
Techs history, jumps against Pitts Jim LaValley.
a successful one, and starting sen
iors Kalin, Keefer, and Burdett 
had outstanding years. They will 
be missed both offensively and 
defensively next year.
Tech Crushes Carroll
Both teams started slowly in 
the John Carroll game. With five 
minutes gone and the score 
2-2, the game looked like a turn
over contest. But GITS Leigh DeHuff and Mark Lang scored 13 
points in a two-man, five-minute 
splurge to give the Tartans a tenpoint lead. John Carroll never 
got closer to the home team than 
that. With only four minutes gone 
in the second half, CIT had a 
commanding 56-24 lead. Both 
benches were emptieda total of 
26 men played for both teams. 
Don Keefer led the scoring with 
22 and Mark Lang added 17 for 
the Tartans. John Carroll got off 
an impressive total of 82 shots, 
but could connect on only 23.
The statistics:
John CarrollFGFTPts.
Csravana53- 513
Hojnacki60- 012
Delong34- 510
Berger20- 14
Mullally11- 13
Schutte10- 02
Slosar00- 10
Denewith01- 21
Guzik11- 13
Sam mon40- 18
Totals2310-1756
CITFGFTPts.
DeHuff43- 511
Keefer86- 722
Burdett45- 513
Kalin21- 25
Lang81- 317
Meister13- 45
Hummel01- 21
Houser21- 25
Weborg01- 41
Eckhardt00- e0
Grazzini12- 24
Stobbe10- 02

Totals31 24-3886
Ilalftime Score: 
Carroll 22.
CIT 40, John
Rebounds: CIT 58, John Carroll
32.
FG pet. IT 41.8%, JC 28%.
FT pet.: CIT 63.2%, JC 58.8%. 
Turnovers: CIT 11, JC 17. 
Personal Fouls: CIT 13, PC 24. 
FG pet.: CIT 41.8%, JC 28%.
Pitt Stops Tech
Against Pitt the Tartans grab
bed an early 13-5 lead, but Pitt 
soon settled and fought back to
Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
Leigh DeHuff scores against Pitt.
a 24-24 tie with 5% minutes left 
in the half. The Panthers, con
trolling both boards, then outscored Tech 27-8 until only 12 
minutes of the game remained. 
By that time Ray Burdett had 
fculed out and both Kalin and 
Leng were ^laying with four per
sons. Pitt used a come-and-getthe-ball offense for the remainder 
of the game, and although the 
Tartans fought back to within 13 
points, when CIT would get a 
few buckets, Pitt would stop pass
ing and start shooting. The re
sults show its effectiveness. Jeff 
Kalin and Ken Bollens of Pitt 
were tied for game honors with
17 points each.
The statistics:
PittFGFTPts.
Smith62- 214
LaValley63- 415
Bellens65- 717
Stevenson10- 12
Falenski32- 28
Kalata42- 510
DiFrischia11- 23ffff
Totals2715-2369
CITFGFTPts.
Kalin81- 117
Lang34- 410
Keefer44- 412
Burdett20- 34
DeHuff21- 15
Houser01- 21
Meister10- 02
Hummel10- 02
Weborg10- 02f----f
Totals2211-1555
Halftime score: Pitt 34, CIT 28. 
Rebounds: Pitt 53, CIT 37.
FG pet.: Pitt 38.6%, CIT 40%. 
FT pet.: Pitt 65.2%, CIT 64.7%. 
Personal fouls: Pitt 20, CIT 21.
Swim Team Win Streak 
Stopped At Eight
Techs winning streak was stopped last Wednesday by 
Kent State 35-69, but not before the swimming team made 8 
in a row after a 58-37 victory over Westminster.
Two records were set in the Westminster meet as the 
400 yard medley relay team of Bill Cotsworth, Fred Rial, 
Pete Hutter, and Cassius Moter broke their own record by 
3.7 seconds. Senior Bill Cotsworth set an individual record
in the 200 yard backstroke by _________
posting a time of 2:21.9.
Other first places were taken 
by John OBrien (200-yard free
style), John Perry (60-yard free
style and 100-yard freestyle), 
Cassius Moter (500-yard free
style), Bruce McKelvy (200-yard 
breaststroke), and the 400-yard 
freestyle relay team of John Per
ry, Les Hough, Cassius Moter, 
and Pete Hutter.
Tech received the same treat
ment they had been giving their 
opponents throughout most of the 
season when they met Kent State 
last week. The Kent State men
Despite Snow, Track Team 
Still Holds Pre-Season Practice
The coming of spring brings many pleasant thoughts to the minds 
of most students. As any professor can tell you, students no longer 
concentrate on what is being said in class but on sun, spring vacation, 
grass, summer vacation, softball, boys, or girls, Spring Carnival, and
Schenley Park. ----------------------------------------------------
pending on your point of view).
If your mind, is full of pleasant
For most of us us, these 
thoughts have no basic reality. 
It just isnt spring. One group 
of students, however, has suc
ceeded in breaking the barrier. 
They act as if spring was already 
here. Every week day you can 
see them (snow, rain, ice, smog, 
sleet, soot, slush, or not) sun bath
ing in their shorts, enjoying the 
grass, and possibly using Schen
ley Park.
This group may be subdivided 
(by size, shape, and form) into 
three more groups. The first 
group (lets call them heavies) 
does not quite have the spirit of 
the movement. They still spend 
a lot of time indoors lifting 
weights. The second group (lets 
call them rabbits, because of their 
size and form) is a little better 
off. Although they spend most of 
their time outdoors, they still do 
not fully enjoy the* scenery and 
therefore dont like to see very 
much of it. The last group (lets 
call them the in group, distin
guished mostly by their shape) 
has taken full advantage of the 
situation and is enjoying, among 
other things, a thorough use of 
Schenley Park.
Soon (April 1) this group 
(heavies -f rabbits -f ins) 
will engage in competition with 
similar heterogeneous groups 
from other schools. Thus com
petition consist of many separate 
events and is commonly a track 
meet. The heavies will use 
their size to throw objects as far 
as possible (in a predetermined 
direction, hopefully). The rab
bits will non and jump as fast 
and high as they can, and the 
in will run circles around every
one, or run around in circles (de
spring thoughts, why hide them? 
Come out and join the group 
(Track Team). Even if you dont 
want to work hard at enjoying 
spring, youre welcome. (Donner 
Hall Track Room 4:30). We need 
members for a fourth division 
of the group. We need watchers.
Definition: Watchera student 
(the coach says it must be a male 
student) with or without previ
ous experience who can work 
with the coach and is free every 
school day at 4:30. He is subject to 
such fringe benefits as Varsity 
Athletic awards and no gym 
classes.
WAR A Team. 
Loses Two
The Tartettes dropped both 
their home games this week, one 
to Pitt and the other to California 
State. Techs team never managed 
to go ahead of the Panthers, but 
they did tie the score at half time 
were trailing by only four points. 
In the third quarter Pitt exploded 
with a series of very accurate 
long shots and Tech had difficultyfinding their own range. Although 
the girls continued to play hard, 
the end of the game found Pitt 
leading 51-35. Freshmen Linda 
Hood and Cathy Hill were Techs 
high scorers with 16 and 15 points 
respectively.
Because of Californias added 
height and the absence of Cathy 
Hill, Tech lost Saturdays game. 
At one point California enjoyed 
an eight point lead and although
who have lost only to Ohio Uni
versity and Miami, managed to 
break three pool records in the 
400-yard medley relay, 200-yard 
freestyle, and the 200-yard back
stroke. One of the most exciting 
events was the sustained drive by 
Cassius Moter in the 500-yard 
freestyle as he nearly overtook his 
opponent while setting a new 
team record time of five minutes 
and 39.9 seconds, finishing sec
ond. Preston Bigelow also broke 
his own record with a time of 
two minutes and 24.7 seconds in 
the 200-yard individual medley 
while finishing third. The only 
first place was taken by John 
Bennett in diving with a total of 
176.6 points. This far surpasses 
the diving record of 103.28 set in 
1952, but since the criteria for 
diving points has varied since 
1952 it is difficult to compare the 
efforts.
As a team, the Tartans can be 
proud of their accomplishments 
as the only two team records 
that were not broken by the 67 
squad were diving and the 200- 
yard butterfly.
After compiling an eight win, 
four loss record as the season 
closed against Kent State, the 
swimmers went to the Penn-Ohio 
championships. The team took 
third place, moving up one place 
from last year. Medals were tak
en by Cassius Moter, as he got a 
third place in both the 200 and 
500-yard freestyle, Pete Hutter 
and Les Hough as they took fifth 
and sixth place, respectively, in 
both the 50 and 100-yard freestyles, and John OBrien as he 
took a sixth in the 500-yard free
style. Unlike previous years, the 
team showed its greatest strength 
in non-freestyle events as Bill 
Cotsworth took a gold medal in 
the 200-yard backstroke followed 
by Preston Bigelow in the third 
position, and Fred Rial took a 
second place silver medial in the 
200-yard breaststroke, backed up 
by Bruce McKelvy with a fifth 
place.
The team, looking forward to 
an even better season next 3rear. 
will greatly miss' graduating sen
iors, Captain Pete Hutter and Bill 
Cotsworth.
Tech continued to battle back and 
tied the score in the fourth quar
ter, the game ended with a score 
of 24-20. Peggy Herre worked well 
under the opponents basket while 
Paulette Astell and Mary Bookwalter did an excellent job of in
tercepting the ball and feeding 
it to high scorer Linda Hood. Tech 
will host Indiana State on Tues
day and Slippery Rock Saturday.
