I carnegie teen
11111 , I
I I ik I  mm mm ^1
Volume 65 - Number 19 Wednesday, March 9, 1966
Lustuskys 
Taste Appeals 
To MG Critics
Best-Dressed Evening
Tartan Photo by John Mera
Joann Lustusky, junior, 
retailing and design, has 
been voted Carnegie Techs 
best-dressed candidate for 
Glamour Magazines na
tional contest.
Her name and photograph will 
be submitted to the magazine.
Joann was selected by Morewood women on the basis of a 
fashion show held in Morewood 
Gardens last Friday. She model
led three outfits: for campus, offcampus and evening wear.
Her campus attire was a floral 
print shirtwaist dress. She carried 
a matching sweater andpattenleather accessories and wore little 
girl shoes.
For off-campus occasions she 
wore a reversible shocking pink 
discoteque-type dress with olive 
trim. Matching the dress were 
green kid sling-back pumps and 
an enameled geometric pin.
For evening wear she appear
ed in a silk blend aqua suit. Short 
kid gloves, a beaded bag and mat
ching shoes completed her outfit.
Mudge Foru m
President H. GuyfordSteverwill 
speak at the Mudge Graduate House 
Forum on Thursday, March 17 at 
6:30 p.m. All graduate students 
are invited to attend.
The Forum invites several guest 
speakers to Mudge each semester.
Apartments To Have 
Carpets, Furniture
?Furniture for each of the 18 apartments in Colonial 
Manor, Carnegie Techs recently designated womens 
residence facility, was chosen last week during a meet
ing between administrative officers and a committee 
of junior women.
A Phi O Holds 
12 Chapt er
Conference
One hundred Alpha Phi 
Omega members from 
West Virginia and western 
Pennsylvania will attend a 
sectional conference at 
Carnegie Tech this Sat
urday.
Twelve of the fraternitys 350 
chapters will attend the meetings 
and banquet in Skibo from 9:30 
a.m. to 8 p.m.
An attempt has been made by 
the planners, Carnegie Techs 
Kappa chapter and Pitts Beta 
chapter, to foster more inter
change of ideas. After a short 
welcome by Dr. Schatz, vice-president for academic affairs, a panel 
discussion of The Identity of 
APhiO on the campus with special 
reference to the House will open 
the program.
The two opposing views will be 
represented by Kappa and by 
Lambda Omega, from California 
State College. Jerry Plessner, a 
member of the National Executive 
Board will moderate the session.
After lunch there will be dis
cussion groups on topics of spe
cial interest, such as rushing and 
membership, social functions, and 
finance. The banquet scheduled 
for 6 p.m. will feature a speech 
by a National Officer and music 
by the Pipers.
According to Professor Ray
mond Haynes, Sectional Chairman, 
this could be the most meaningful 
conference ever held in this Sec
tion.
Each bedroom will contain beds, 
dressers, and a decorated desk.
A three-seated sofa, two stuff
ed arm chairs, floor lamps, end 
tables with lamps, and a coffee 
table will furnish the living room.
The dining room will contain 
a drop-leaf dining table with six 
chairs.
Both rooms will have wall to 
wall carpeting.
Kitchenware, curtains, bed
spread, and additional furnish
ings will not be provided.
The apartments will be priced 
on the basis of a three person 
occupancy. An additional occupany will raise the total cost be
cause of the required extra fur
niture purchases involved. The 
cost-per-person, however, will not 
be as high for four.
The Administration predicts 
that the furnishings will last for 
ten years and will set its prices 
accordingly.
At present, no definite rates 
have been announced.
Pictures showing the apart
ment interiors will soon be avail
able for interested and eligible 
women. The^e women are encour
aged to pick up residency appli
cations and send them home to be 
signed as soon as possible.
Applications may be submitt
ed to the Dean of Womens Of
fice along with a $50 deposit, any 
time before March 21.
Camp Chairman
Richard Londergan, a junior 
physics major, has been named 
chairman of Freshman Camp for 
1966.
Application forms for prospec
tive Freshman Camp counselors 
are now available In Skibo 103. 
They should be completed and 
turned in at the Information Desk 
on or before Friday, March 18.
$34,000 Grant Given 
To Study Problem Solving
The United States Office of Education has awarded a contract for 
$33,755 for the study of Individual Differences in Problem Solving 
Process, under the direction of Garlie A. Forehand, psychology. 
The U. S. Department of the
Navy has made a grant of $27, 
990 for a study of The Use of 
Foam In the Emergency Support 
of Hovercraft during Power FailAdministration Building Takes Form
Tartan Photo by Fred Maize
ure at Sea. Thomas E. Stelson, 
civil engineering, heads the pro
ject.
The United States Air Force 
has made a $49,468 grant to Don
ald L. Feucht and Arthur G. Milnes, electrical engineering for re
search directed toward Semicon
ductor Hetero-Structure Studies.
The Office of Education has 
made a grant of $92,827 for re
search An Audio-Visual Com
ponent to a High School Social 
Studies Curriculum for Able Stu
dents. The project is under the 
direction of Edwin Fenton and John 
Good, history.
The National Institutes of Health 
has awarded $16,428 for research 
in the field of Quantum Mechani
cal studies in Biochemistry, 
which is under the direction of 
John A. Pople, chemistry.
ROTC Cadets Elect Dryden 
Queen Of Military Ball
Guests Greet Cadets and Dates
Tartan Photo by John Mera
Kay Dryden, sponsored by the mens dormitories, was crowned as 
Queen of the Military Ball this past Saturday evening. She received 
her crown from last years queen, Barbara Cerra, and Colonel William S. Crocker, Jr., professor 
Carnegie Tech.
Great Scot!
A group of interested Carnegie 
Tech students are in the process 
of attempting to revive the old 
Scot humor magazine.
They plan to sell the self-supporting magazine, containing you 
name it, at 50 a copy. A first 
issue will come out, they hope, by 
Spring Carnival.
Anyone interested in working 
on the magazine should contact 
Bruce Chamberlain, 682-1935. 
Written material of any kind would 
be appreciated.
of military science and tactics at
Selected as members of her 
court were: Bea Churchill, rep
resenting Sigma Nu; Marlene Gaysek, representing Phi Kappa Theta; and Carol Bilo, representing 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
The Military Ball was sponsor
ed by Scabbard and Blade. Guests 
of honor were Brigadier General 
and Mrs. Addington. Addington 
commands the 31st Artillary Bri
gade, Pittsburgh Air Defense Com
mand.
Complimentary photographs of 
the ROTC members and their dat
es were provided by the Midwest 
Color Company.
Explorers Club Attracts 
Lovers Of Adventure
The Explorers Club will hold a special spring 
membership meeting in Scaife Hall Auditorium on 
Wednesday, March 16. At the meeting, a slide show 
covering all aspects of the Clubs activities will be presented. JInterest in outdoor adventure 
is the club's only membership 
qualification. Knowledge of back
packing, rock climbing, caving or 
canoeing is unnecessary.
Informal meetings are held each 
week in Skibo on Tuesdays at 7:30 
p.m. Then slides or movies are 
shown and future activities are dis
cussed.
Each Sunday morning there is a 
day trip which leaves Skibo cafe
teria at 8:30. Its objective is usual
ly the mountains an hours drive 
from the city where there are low 
rock cliffs for practicing rock 
climbing techniques and trails for 
hiking.
Several times a month there are 
weekend trips which usually go to 
West Virginia. The mountains of 
that state afford opportunities for 
wilderness hiking; its limestone 
areas contain numerous caves; and 
Seneca Rocks provides some of the 
best rock climbing in the East, 
with climbing routes for both the 
beginner and expert. The area al
so has numerous rivers.
Those interested in more infor
mation about the Explorer's Club 
6hould call Alex Bltteriblnder, 
West Virginia Cave club president, at 621-9172.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 9, 1966i
Whats Doing 
On Campus
by T ina Enteil
':;r*
T oday
10:30 a.m. Womens Club Sew
ing Group. Skibo, Highlander 
Room.
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass. Ski
bo room 39.
3 p.m. Dance Club. Skibo Ball
room.
4 p.m. Architecture Lecture, 
Compression Structures. FA 
room 210.
4:30 p.m. Kiltie Band, Skibo rooms 
39-46.
7 to 8:30 p.m. Guitar Class. Skibo 
room 56.
7:30 p.m. Ad Hoc committee on 
Viet Nam, Skibo, Highlander 
Room.
8 p.m. Oratory, Skibo, room 40.
8 p.m. C.I.T, Women. Skibo room
55.
Thursday
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass. Skibo 
room 39.
4;30, 7, and 9:30 p.m. Film Arts 
Movie, The Hurricane, Por
ter Hall 100.
4:30 p.m. Pipe Corps. Skibo room 
200.
5:45 to 7 p.m. Kappa Kappa Gam
ma. Skibo room 39.
7 p.m. APhiO meeting. Skibo room 
40.
8 p.m. Oratory. Skibo room 54.
Friday
11:30 and 12;30 p.m. Mass. Ski
bo room 39.
7 p.m. Tech Record Dance. Skibo 
ballroom.
7:30 and 10 p.m. Y-Cine series, 
Stalag 17 and Munro PH 
100, Y-members 25<?, non-members 50.
9 p.m. Ceilidh, Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
Saturday
10 to 2 p.m. Folk Institute. Skibo 
Ballroom. All day Student Unit
ed Nations. Skibo Room 40. All 
day APhiO, Skibo Highlander 
Room and Wherrett Room, 
rooms 45, 46, 54, 55, 56.
12:30 p.m. SCOP P. Skibo room 200.
6 p.m. Tech Christian Fellowship. 
Skibo, Wherrett Room.
Sunday
9 and noon Mass, Skibo, room 39.
12 noon, Alliance France Rehear
sal. Skibo Wherrett Room.
1 p.m. Scotchn Soda Board. Skibo 
room 54.
1 p.m. SCOPP. Skibo room 55.
1 p.m. Tau Beta Phi. Skibo room 
40.
6 p.m. Scandanavian Dinner. Theta 
Xi House.
7:30 p.m. Chess Club. Skibo, room 
40.
Monday
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass. Ski
bo room 39.
4:30 to 6 p.m. Dance Workshop. 
Skibo Ballroom.
6 p.m. Scotch n Soda Board. Ski
bo Ballroom.
7 p.m. Mens Dorm Council. Ski
bo Wherrett Room.
Tuesday
9 to 2 p.m. Athletic Department 
Luncheon, Skibo Highland
er Room.
10 a.m. AEPhi. Skibo room 56.
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass. Skibo
room 39.
4:30 p.m. Student Congress. Ski
bo Wherrett Room.
4:30 p.m. Christian Science Or
ganization. Skibo room 39.
5 p.m. Cwens Meeting, skibo room 
46.
7:30 to 11 p.m. Explorers Club. 
Skibo room 54.
7:30 p.m. Ad Hoc Committee on 
Viet Nam. Skibo Highlander 
Room.
8 p.m. Tech Dames, Arts and 
Crafts. Skibo room 55.
8 to 11 p.m. CIT Folk Dance 
Club. Skibo Wherrett Room.
8:15 p.m. American Nuclear So
ciety, Skibo Faculty Lounge.
8:15 p.m. Brass Choir, music de
partment. Skibo, Ballroom. I.M. 
Softball.
MMCC Plans 
Coffee Hours
The first Margaret Morrison 
Coffee Hour of the spring semes
ter will be held on Thursday, 
March 10 in the MMCC Faculty 
Lounge from 3:30 to 5 p.m.
Successive Coffee Hours will 
be held on Tuesday, April 19 and 
Wednesday, May 16.
The gatherings will be aimed 
at providing an excellent oppor
tunity for an exchange of ideas 
about programs, curricula, cur
rent happenings, and future plans 
at Margaret Morrison College.
Attendance is not manditory but 
MMCC students are invited to 
attend all or any of the three ses
sions.
Opera Tickets
Tickets for the opera Andrea 
Chenier starring Richard Tuck
er, March 24 and March 26, at the 
Syria Mosque, are now on sale in 
the Office of the Dean, FA.
Thursday tickets sell for $1.50; 
Saturday tickets cost $2.10.
1,IWnd sorLAMSMHKoE1 PRFT
POITIER BANCROFTTHESIENDER1HREAD
"Sex is noia 
forbidden word!"
THIS I AW ADULT WCTUW
* ROMULUS PMOUCTION   COLUMBI PICTUtS IHIUSE
A man.., 
a girl... 
captives in 
their own 
worlds... 
finding 
escape 
in each 
other...
METRO GOLDWYN MAYER p-fsents 
THE PANORO S BERMAN GUY GREEN PRODUCTION
lWcH
3RD BIG WEEK
Matinees Sat. And Sun.
IHme
StarringSIDNEY = SHELLEY POITIER WINTERS
ELIZABETH HARTMAN
IN PANAVISION*
Fornir.^fona i (o I * I 
3)6400 J THE ATMS ^
MT LEIANON 
531 1300
WED. & THUS. MAR. 16-17
2 Shows DAILY 2:00 and 8:15 P.M. 
Special Student Prices
"LIVELY, HANDSOME, 
ENTERTAINING,
FILM based on 
Shakespeare's 
rowdy comedy !"
Washington Star
"More than once the 
film will remind 
yon of 'Tom lones'l"
Washington Post
HOLLYWOOD
DORMONT
1
SQUIRREL HILL
Wndsorfrom the play by 
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
si.., NORMAN FOSTER MILDRED MILLER COLETTE BOKY IGOR GOREN 
Pr*c w NORMAN FOSTER  One* * GEORGE TRESSIER 
The Zagreb Symphony Orchestra a s.jmj hi h*
MEMORIAL
Icarrnegit
NORTH HILLS
McKNIGHT ROAD
SHERIDAN SO.
EAST LIBERTY
STRAND
Bureau Offers 
Summer Job 
Placement
by John Leise
Students seeking sum
mer employment are invit
ed to make use of the Car
negie Tech Bureau of 
Placements summer 
placement program.
The Bureau informs employers 
of Carnegie Tech students desir
es for summer jobs.
If any openings exist, the con
tacted firms send out notices and 
relevant information. These are 
filed in the Placement Office, Ski
bo room 10.
The success of this program 
depends largely upon whether stu
dents take advantage of it.
Eugene F. Ventur, Alumni 
Placement Officer, recalls an in
cident when an institution notified 
the Bureau of an opening in office 
work. The notice was filed in 
March, but there were no appli
cations made for it. The compa
ny was forced to fill this open
ing, which paid over five hundred 
dollars, by notifying another uni
versity.
In addition, since the opening 
was not filled by Carnegie Tech, 
the firm will not send the Bureau 
first notice of any available open
ings this year.
Dinner To Feature 
Scandinavia Food
The International Committee of 
the YM and YWCA will sponsor a 
Scandinavian dinner on Sunday, 
March 13 at the Theta Xi House.
Special food will be served and 
slides will be shown following the 
meal.
Under the chairmanship of Mary 
Winchester, sophomore, paint
ing and design, Scandinavian stu
dents on campus have helped with 
planning.
Those interested should regis
ter by paying the $1 cost of the 
dinner at the Y office by Thurs
day, March 10.
Registration is limited to 25 per
sons.
RUGS -$15 - $39
Over 500 new rugs, mostly 9x12s, 
at citys lowest prices. 6x9s, 
9x15s, 12x15s, etc.
The following cosmopolitan oc
casional furniture items are shown: 
director chairs-$18.88; butterfly 
chairs-$10.88; folding rope chairs$14.88; and $22.88; chiavari din
ing chairs-$11.88; dining tables$29.88 to $48.88; and slat benches-$9.88 to $14.88- Round Basket 
Chairs:$8.88
For complete bedrooms, livingrooms, diningrooms at 40% off (at 
Manufacturer showroom), inquire at:CHASES
5432 Walnut St., Shadyside 
Open 10 a.m. - 9 p.m. _ Sat. 10-5 
Serving The College Trade.
THIS COUPON IS WORTH 
On Any Style Pizza Pie
(6 CUTS)25
ONLY AT 117 OAKLAND AVE. 
DIAL 683-5222
For Fast Pickup Service 
"WE DELIVER
Coupon good until March 10- Special prices for quantity orders 
(5 pies or more) for fraternities, sororities, dorms.
^ Viva Fun! Viva Can-Can! Viva Adventure! Vm Stripleasei^
M/a love! Viva Boom-Boom!
BRIGITTE BARDOT JEANNE MOREAU.LOUIS MALLES VIVA MARIAS GEORGE HAMILTON
ftvwsrNnPutb, *ROMU LS**P >vi MCSTciAUDt CAWRiEst o.llcwn, LOUIS MALLE loum OSCAR DANCIGERS  LOUIS MALLE
rs PANAVISION* EASTMANCOLORl |
T UNITED ARTISTS NQW
FIRST UNITED STATES SHOWING
UHN onrDDd WO LG1HTo.
Tar tanP hoby nP JMeHme
... itfe as simple as ABC 
if you look
TONY RNDLL ANITA EKBER6 ROBERT MORLEY
URDERSLStwtaiVe te!
.AGATHA CHRISTIES w'THE A.BC MUROERS  LAWRENCE P BACHMANN
] 2nd WEEK

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 9, J966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
ATTENTION TECH MEN
25% discount is now available 
?o Tech men on PERMANENT 
PRESSED slacks, both dress 
and casual. For more informa
tion, contact Larry Hoffman, 
Box 599 Campus Mail, or call 
682-9252, or see Larry at 204 
Donner Hall.
Iccar I carnreg i tBsnBCAMERA EXCHANGE, INC
3711 DdEv Amou lBnnvTkaF.G lIu CWWh
03-2111
Oakland*t Only Camera Store
Should a graduating 
Chemical Engineer 
be a joiner?
Yes. Providing he joins a company which is
young and dynamically growing... and yet, at the same time,
already an established leader in its field.
Mobay Chemical Company is just such a company.
And its representatives will be on your campus in your 
Placement Office for talks with you on March 11 th
Principal Areas of Interest Include :
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
PROCESS ENGINEER 
Conduct economic and process studies 
in existing production units; based on 
the results of these studies and/or op
erations request, recommend and facil
itate any needed process changes; assist 
in start up of new process equipment. 
(Location: New Martinsville, West 
Virginia)
APPLICATIONS RESEARCH 
Personality suited for dealing with cus
tomers in the area of cellular and noncellular urethanes, polyesters and 
elastomers. (Location: Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania)
PROJECT ENGINEERS 
Responsible for the engineering design 
of capital additions as assigned; pro
vide equipment specifications required 
to carry out procurement and mechani
cal design of assigned facilities, prepare 
engineering and economic analysis; 
maintain cost control of assigned proj
ects and to carry out special assign
ments for the manager of project design. 
(Location: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
CHEMISTS
Will perform applications research 
work in the department of coatings, 
foam applications, isocyanates and elas
tomer processes. These positions also 
entail customer service in close coopera
tion with marketing department. (Loca
tion: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER 
Design of industrial plant, electrical 
power distribution systems, controls 
circuits and lighting systems; establish 
electrical maintenance schedules and 
procedures on all electrical equipment; 
conduct load surveys on existing power 
distribution systems. (Location: New 
Martinsville, West Virginia)
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
MECHANICAL ENGINEER 
Have aptitude for working with small 
scale precision machinery such as is en
countered in the rubber and plastics in
dustry as distinguished from the larger 
scale equipment as used in the steel in
dustry; must desire to work with cus
tomers. This job is in the applications 
research section. (Location: Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania)
SALES
SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
Any type of engineering degree if per
son is interested in industrial sales; de
velops and maintains optimum sales for 
performance through direct field contact 
with potential and established customers 
as directed by a District Manager. (Ap
proximately one year training program 
in Pittsburgh before entering field.)
Urethane Chemistrys Unlimited 
Potential:
Allied with two of the worlds most pro
gressive chemical companies (Monsanto, 
third largest in the U.S., and Bayer, larg
est in West Germany), MOBAY has rap
idly grown to a first position of leadership
and prestige in urethane chemistry... a 
vast area of unlimited potential...one 
which has already importantly affected 
nearly every major area of product man
ufacture... one where careers move ahead 
with dynamic growth.
Leadership in Urethane Chemistry 
MOBAY CHEMICAL COMPANY
Pittsburgh, Pa. and New Martinsville, W. Va.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
.TRIED THE SNACK BAR'S CARRY OUT SERVICE YET?
SavesomeleadingquestionsforXerox
(They can lead to some pleasant surprises.)
Especially in R&D.
When our representative visits your campus, take ad
vantage of an interview session to probe beneath the 
surface of a company that means many things to many 
people. Because it never stops coming up with new 
surprises.
Dont be too surprised when he gives you a complete run
down of our research and development groups... and 
you suddenly realize that our well-known office copiers 
share the internal spotlight with more than a score of 
other seemingly unrelated studies, devices, products and 
systems.
Ask him what we mean when we say that the real busi
ness of Xerox is graphic communications. Draw him out 
on how we came to start a revolution in office copying, 
and transformed this success into an interdisciplinary 
assault on the global information explosion.
Let him explain LDX (Long Distance Xerography)  what 
it is today, and what it implies in the context of to
morrows integrated computer/communication networks. 
Learn the roles of chemistry, physical optics, mathemati
cal analysis and systems engineering for new products 
still as much as a decade away from the light of day.
Then, if youre intrigued enough (and theres time 
enough), let him ask a few leading questions of his own.
Make a date to see us on your campus 
Tuesday, March 15 
See your Placement Director for details.
XEROX
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M&F)
For f66...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
.. ,  m
M.W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 9, 1966
Editorial
No Crisis
Under the provisions of the National Defense 
Education Act (NDEA), which has been in effect 
since 1959, many students at Carnegie Tech and at 
a large number of other schools around the country 
have been provided with financial assistance in the form 
of loans from the Federal government to help finance 
their education. Students to whom NDEA loans have 
been, awarded pay no interest on them until after 
graduation, when they have ten years to repay the loan 
at the easy interest rate of 3% on the balance.
In an effort to help trim the Federal budget, how
ever, the Johnson Administration is planning to 
phase out the NDEA program and was to replace 
it next fall with Federal Insured I/Dan Program (FIL), 
established by Congress last November. Under the 
FIL, a student may borrow as much as $1000 per 
year up to five years through either a commercial 
bank or other commercial lending agency. This pro
gram maintains the same eligibility requirements, and 
the same interest and repayment terms as those used 
under the NDEA, but gives to the commercial agency 
the authority to grant or deny a loan and to determine 
its size.
This proposal has caused considerable concern 
among educators and students alike, notably in this 
area at the University of Pittsburgh. A front page 
editorial, entitled The Loan Crisis, appearing in a 
recent edition of the Pitt News, stated, A travesty 
is being committed against American education by the 
failure to continue the National Defense Student Loan 
program in the Johnsons administrations 1967 fiscal 
budget. The editorial among other things expressed 
the fear that  . . . students will be fair game for 
many murderous loan agencies with high interest 
rates, asserted that the program could not possibly 
begin functioning by September and advocated a 
strong, continuous exercise of public opinion in favor 
of NDEAs reinstatement.
In addition, the News quoted University of Pitts
burgh admissions director Jack Critchfield, who as
serted, it (FIL) cant function overnight. It will take 
at least five months, and he prophesied pessimis
tically, saying that he cant see implementation by 
September. Furthermore, one University of Pitts
burgh student who has led the opposition to the dis
continuation of the NDEA spoke recently with Carnegie 
Tech administrators in search of further support for 
his campaign to maintain the NDEA program. Finally, 
a petition in support of NDEA is being circulated within 
the University of Pittsburgh, and may well have made 
its appearance on the Carnegie Tech campus by the 
time this edition of the Tartan went to press.
In reply to a Tartan inquiry, initiated to determine 
whether the effects which this government proposal 
would have on Carnegie Techs financial aid program 
and on the financial security of its students receiving 
loans, George K. Brown, dean of the Division of Stu
dent Affairs at Carnegie Tech, indicated that the 
situation is not quite so drastic as the News would 
have it seem, and certainly with respect to Carnegie 
Tech, it is generating no crisis. According to more 
recent information, found in a statement in the March 
2 edition information, found in a statement in the 
March 2 edition of Higher Education and National 
Affairs, a bulletin published by the American Coun
cil on Education (ACE), the Johnson Administration 
is now proposing a much slower phase-out of the 
National Defense Student Loan Program than was 
originally planned. The Administrations new higher 
education bill, presented to Congress on March 1, 
calls for an appropriation of $150 million to continue 
the NDEA through the 1967 fiscal year . . . Loans un
der NDEA terms also would be authorized as neces
sary for the succeeding fiscal year.
According to the bulletin an actual total of $184 
million would be available for loans to needy stu
dents in the 1966-67 academic year. Moreover, 
according to U. S. commissioner of Education, Harold 
Howe II, the NDEA program would be continued on 
a phase-out basis which may be up to three years.
Dean Brown asserted that, in light of the new in
formation cited above, no emergency situation 
concerning financial aid is developing at Carnegie 
Tech as a result of the Johnson Administration plan 
to phase-out the NDEA program. Dean Brown explain
ed that Carnegie Tech has a reserve fund on which 
it would lean were a shortage in aid money created | 
by the discontinuation of the NDEA. He stated however 
that, with the phase-out program outlined in the 
administrations bill, such a situation is not likely to 
develop. (Dean Browns statements seemed to preThe Search 
For Understanding
By James Panepinto
Which College Student?
In an attempt to eliminate some 
of the inequalities of the draft, 
the Selective Service System has 
developed an elaborate scheme 
for aiding local draft boards in 
their decisions on which college 
students to draft.
Students who are in the lower 
half of their class may be draft
ed, however, they are allowed 
the option of taking a test. If they 
pass the test, they are to be de
ferred, even if they are in the 
lower portion of their class.
But strong arguments exist 
against this system. Many educa
tional achievement test have an in
herent bias, no matter how unbias
ed the originators of the test claim 
it to be. Students from poorer 
and educationally disadvantaged 
backgrounds consistently score 
lower than those from a middle 
or upper middle class background, 
because of the distinct environ
mental advantage which the latter 
group possesses.
Class rank is as unfair in choo
sing draftees as are tests. Students 
from educationally disadvantaged 
backgrounds tend to fall to the bot
tom of their class, mainly because 
test grades are the primary cri
terion of academic success in col
lege. The use of class standing 
and the use of tests discriminat
es against students from lower 
income brackets. The draft al
ready takes significantly larger 
portion of the poor, since fewer 
of them have been able to take 
advantage of educational defer
ments, and there is not justifi
cation to increase the inequali
ties which already exist.
However, General Hersheys 
attempt to eliminate inequity wi
thin the draft system has further 
unpleasant implications. This test 
would put even more pressure on 
todays college students. Students 
would be motivated more on the 
basis of grades and would tend 
to choose easier courses of stu
dy.
It would be unwise to enroll 
in a rigorous course of study 
if ones chances of completing it 
arent almost certain. Similarly, 
the tendency to attend less de
manding colleges where chances of 
success are much greater would
occur in favor of risking lower 
grades at an institution of esta
blished excellence.
Needless to say, these items 
would affect students from both 
lower and middle class back
grounds.
One important objection stands 
out in my mind. The educational 
process is being narrowed by a 
group of Civil Servants who have 
no authority to do so. General 
Hershey will affect the educa
tional system in America grave
ly through his action. Under the 
proposed plan, risks of experimen
ting in other fields of study - of
taking course diverse from ones 
field of study  will become too 
great. One is much safer by taking 
only course where success in as
sured. Only the rare engineer 
will venture into the Fine Arts 
Building to compete with painting 
and design majors. His acade
mic future may depend on, the 
grade he receives.
This is a direct assault on the 
liberal philosophy of education in 
the guise of reducing draft in
equity (at which it fails).
To eliminate this intimidation 
of the educational process, a con
certed effort by all involved (stu
dents, faculty, administration) 
throughout the nation is necessary. 
Next week: The beginning of this 
concerted action.
Readers Write
Panelists Attempted 
Unbiased Program
Editor, the Tartan:
Although I strongly dis agree with 
the position Messrs. Bushkoff, 
Derfler, Helfgott and Wolfenstein 
take on Vietnam, I do not think 
their behavior during the recent 
Vietnam program constituted in 
any sense a violation of academic 
responsibility. I helped plan the 
program, and I am convinced that 
the panel made every effort to con
duct an unbiased discussion. It may 
be impossible for some one to com
pletely divorce facts from opinion, 
but it is clear to me that the 
panelists tried to do this.
All of the panelists were, to 
varying degrees, against the ad
ministrations position on Viet
nam, and I think everyone in the 
audience became aware of this. 
The organizers of the program 
tried to find faculty members to 
serve on the panel who would sup
port the governments position. 
None could be found. This is un
fortunate for those of us who 
agree with President Johnsons 
handling of the situation; but it 
is hardly the duty of the panel
ists who did show up to argue 
against their own beliefs.
Rowell Huesmann 
Graduate, Psychology
Two Freshmen 
Back Professors
Editor, the Tartan;
We are writing in reference to 
the Troika article in last weeks 
Tartan which accused the mem
bers of the panel discussion on 
Vietnam, held on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 23, of conducting a ses
sion of indoctrination and propagandization under the guise of ed
ucational respectibility. We feel 
that this charge is completely un
founded.
As stated in Troika, the session 
began with a series of twenty-two 
questions. All of these were at
tempts to get at the facts  they 
were as factual as we could find 
on such a sticky issue as Viet
nam, said George Baylor, the 
panels moderator.
Certainly questions concerning 
the geographic location of Vietnam, 
the specifications of the Geneva 
Accords, the statements made at 
the Honolulu Conference, and spe
cifics about the draft laws have 
definite answers, and are varied 
enough not to indoctrinate anyone. 
It was the audiences pressure, 
in the form of returned questions, 
that forced the panel members to 
cross the fine and often indis
tinct line between fact and opin
ion. In all cases, except for a few 
where it was obvious that a per
sonal evaluation was being given, 
the speakers indicated that their 
statements were opinion by the use 
of such phrases as I think, or I 
believe.*
The panel members felt this 
to be extremely important since, 
despite much diligent effort, they 
had been unable to get someone to 
speak from a position more in ac
cordance with the present govern
ment policy in Vietnam. This ab
sence of a less critical speaker 
was brought out in Troika but 
Troika's writers, it seems, were 
unaware of the panels efforts to 
obtain one. That no one would 
speak, it seems to us, cannot be 
stressed enough.
Tliat the panel attempted to give 
an orderly and factual presenta
tion, nonetheless, and that Baylor 
stated that he reserved the right 
to say that a question was out of 
order if discussion of it would 
follow later, justifies its mem
bers reluctance to state their 
stands until after the formal ques
tioning session ended, the deeper 
discussion of the current situation 
in Vietnam began.
Furthermore, it must be brought 
out that although the affair was
Continued on Page 5
suppose that the bill will indeed be passed, and when 
queried about this, he indicated that it is supported 
by powerful lobbies and is virtually assured of 
passage.)Dean Brown claimed, nevertheless, that Carnegie 
Tech has had a successful experience with the 
NDEA, and foresees several disadvantages asso
ciated with the FIL program. He noted, specifically 
that the need for a student to deal with both the 
school and a commercial agency rather than with the 
school alone will complicate and possibly confuse 
the processing of the loan, and, more importantly, 
that the decision regarding the size of the loan is no 
longer the schools to make, rather that of the com
mercial agency. In spite of this, however, Dean 
Brown made it clear that the replacement of the NDEA 
program by the FIL will not prevent Carnegie Tech 
students from securing loans and consequently is not 
cause for alarm.Thus, when considered relative to the recently ob
tained information discussed above, the urgency which 
the students at the University of Pittsburgh have at
tached to this situation is now unjustified, especially 
in the context of Carnegie Techs financial aid program. 
In light of this and because the phase-out of the NDEA 
is a veritable certainty with the passage of the Ad
ministrations bill, the strong, continous exercise of 
public opinion in favor of NDEAs reinstatement, 
as advocated by the Pitt News, is no longer neces
sary.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 9, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
Discrimination Controversy; 
Fritz, CFP Prexy,Responds
Robert J. Fritz, senior, physics, and president of the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents, prepared the following statement for the Tartan 
in response to the recent controversy concerning alleged discrimina
tion in the Carnegie Tech fraternities, as cited by Tartan columnist 
Malakoff.  ed.
During recent issues, Mssrs. Malakoff, Wesner, and Rachel have 
used the pages of the Tartan to expound their own opinions concerning 
racial discrimination among the fraternities. Mr. Malakoff was the only 
one of these people to make any attempt to verify his facts before 
stating them, and even some of his statements were not true. Be
cause of this, and because I am appalled at how little the average 
Tech student knows about alleged discrimination in fraternities, I have 
written this statement. I have discussed the situation with administra
tive officials of the Division of Student Affairs and in other ways have 
made every attempt to guarantee the complete truth of what I say.
Carnegie Tech, whether students like or not, has every right to regu
late membership practices of organizations on this campus. The school 
has long striven, in conjunction with fraternity leaders, to educate fra
ternity men to consider all male students for possible membership. 
This process started in 1950, four years before the Supreme Court deci
sion outlawing segregation in public schools, and has been accelerated 
in recent years. A look at recent history may prove helpful.
Four years ago it was true that five fraternities had written rules 
against allowing Negroes or Orientals to become members. Two of 
these same fraternities excluded Jews, while another fraternity allow
ed only Catholic men. These rules of exclusion were not desired by the 
fraternity men at Tech, but rather were enforced by the national fra
ternities to which the Carnegie Tech chapters belong. The Tech chap
ters, for the most part, took leading roles at their respective national 
conventions to get these rules repealed.
Today each fraternity chapter at Carnegie Tech is completely free to 
ask any undergraduate male student at CIT to become a member. In all 
cases, national fraternities have either repealed their laws restricting 
membership or have granted waivers from these laws to Carnegie 
Tech and other chapters. It has been said that constitutional euphem
isms and gentlemen's agreements have replaced these laws. This is 
I simply not true. Although national fraternities have urged some of our 
chapters to consider the feelings of all the brothers in other chapters 
before extending a bid, our chapters do not consider this a valid argu
ment for turning away good men. Nor do national fraternities disci
pline chapters which reject this argument. The two chapters at Carne
gie which have been urged very strongly by their national organiza
tions to accept only white Christian men have given bids to Jewish and 
Oriental men during the past three years.
Eleven fraternities at Tech pledge and initiate their members without 
any external review. The decision is completely up to undergraduates. 
The twelfth fraternity must have the approval of an advisor who has statIted that he will go along with any decision the chapter makes. Thus any 
Tech fraternity can invite Negroes to join if the brothers desire to do so. 
Most fraternities at Tech use the one black-ball system for membership 
selection. TTiis system is widely misunderstood. In theory it ensures 
that each prospective pledge is acceptable to each and every brother.
Actually, however, a rushee rejected by a fraternity very seldom 
receives only one black-ball. In almost all cases, if only one brother 
dislikes a rushee, he is readily convinced by the other brothers, whom 
he has known, respected, and lived with for at least a year, to yield to 
the wishes of the overwhelming majority. Thus, fraternity men who have 
felt that they could not accept certain ethnic groups as fraternity brothers 
^have allowed these men to be given bids, have allowed them to be pledged 
and initiated, and have ended up liking them and enjoying their company. 
Why, theli do fraternities maintain this system if it does not work as in
tended? Here again it is a rule of the national fraternities.
Charges have been made that only two of our fraternities will consider 
pledging Negro men. I have made no formal survey of who gave bids 
to whom during this last rush period, but I know of at least four houses 
which gave bids to Negro men. The reader must remember that very 
few Negro men participated in rush. This is because there are very 
few at Carnegie Tech, not because fraternities systematically ex
clude Negroes. No one can guarantee that a Negro man will be given a 
)bid at a certain fraternity. But he will be considered and discussed. 
No Caucasian rushee can be guaranteed any more.
Everything I have said so far applies only to the twelve fraternity 
chapters at Carnegie Tech. I do not apologize for or condone the ac
tions of fraternities, including those which have chapters here, at other 
campuses. For example, one large national fraternity will not consi
der Jewish men at most campuses but the chapter at Carnegie Tech 
had a Jewish president last year. The remarkable thing about Tech 
fraternities is that Jewish men and Catholics have no trouble in finding 
a place in the fraternity of their choice. An increasing numbers of Ne
groes enroll at Carnegie Tech, they will be rushed as hard as anyone 
else. Perhaps Carnegie Tech students are more mature than the ave
rage college student. Perhaps they are more cognizant of world af
fairs. I don't know. At any rate, the CIT fraternity system is not naive 
enough to throw away valuable assets and good friends simply for the 
sake of maintaining an outdated system of bigotry and prejudice.
Lighting Expert To Visit
A series of lectures, semi,nars, and working sessions in ar
chitectural and stage lighting will 
be sponsored by the departments 
of architecture and drama next 
week.
Abe Feder, who will conduct 
the program, is a graduate of the 
Carnegie Tech Department of Dra
ma. He has designed the lighting 
for such broadway shows as My 
Fair Lady," and for the United 
Rations and Pan Am buildings.
On Monday, March 14, Feder 
will lecture on and demonstrate 
light sources, materials, mood and 
tempos, colors and special ef
fects. Students from architecture 
and painting and design will work 
in teams applying light to forms 
which they had previously creat
ed, in a Wednesday work ses
sion.
Feder will conduct an outdoor 
lighting experiment on the steam 
vent between GSIA and The Hunt 
Library on Tuesday, March 15. 
This demonstration will be open 
to all Interested students.
A student lighting project will 
be demonstrated in Thistle Hall on 
Wednesday, March 16, at 7:30 p.m. 
This will be open to non-Fine Arts 
students if there is enough room.
From The Middle Of The Bus
By Michael Malakoff
In Canton
My feets is tired but my soul is rested ... Don't buy where you 
can't work." The first sign I carried for three hours and the second 
sign for two hours in a picket in Canton. Three stores that make 75% 
of their sales to Negroes were being picketed for refusing to hire Ne
groes. The picketing lasted from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (store hours) and 
was quite effective. Only four Negroes in the past three days have shop
ped in these stores.
The sun beats- down, and my skin became red, then redder and 
started to peel. My shirt became wet, then drenched, but I continued 
walking. My feet were tired: my whole body was tired by my soul 
was rested.
I came to Canton early today to get the project car fixed. Driving, 
an activity I once enjoyed had become a frightful experience. The 100 
miles seemed so much longer.
I drove under the speed limit but was still afraid that I'd be arrested 
for speeding. As cars pull up and passed me all in the car seem to 
stop breathing. Eventually, we arrived.
That night, for the first time in six days, I did not go to church. The 
best way to be accepted and to meet large number of people in rural 
Newton is to go to church. Church is a gathering place and often the 
only place where people see each other during the week.
Consequently, many people belonged to more than one church. Many 
churches started their revival services and had services everyday of 
the week. We had been to predominantly Baptist services which at
tract most of the people in Newton but we also attended the Methodist 
and the First Church of Christ services.
The First Church of Christ services were especially inspiring to me. 
I have never seen people so truly feel their religion. There was much 
singing and often during the singing, people from 7 to 70 jumped up and 
started dancing. During the course of the evening, everyone present 
spoke expressing his or her thanks to God. Often the services lasted 
many hours, sometimes all night. At about 12o-clock, the service ended 
and I had some of the best potato salad and fried chicken, having it nine 
out of ten lunches and dinners. It is the only meat that most people can 
afford.
The Federal Registrars arrived in Canton. Many people were lined out
side waiting to register. There were about 200 people inside. The voting 
bill that President Johnson signed the Friday before enabled the Federal 
Government to send in Federal registrars where illegal practices are 
occurring.
Madison County and La Flore County were the first two in Mississippi 
to be effected by this new law. Madison County where Canton is located 
had a white voting age population of 5,622, but had 6,256 white people 
registered to vote. ( U. S. Civil Service Commission). CXit of the 10,366 
Negro voting age population, 218 Negroes were registered. This was 
the result of the registrar's refusing to register Negroes, intimida
tion; harassment; and violence to the Negro at the polls, at his job and at 
his home.
The Federal registrar in Canton had already registered in a single 
morning more Negroes in Canton than Mississippi registrars had in 100 
years in Madison County.
Why did it take our democratic government, our democracy, one 
century to enforce the rights of American citizens as guaranteed by 
them under the Constitution? Why did it take churches and homes being 
burned in Jackson, people being beat in Selma and killed in Canton before 
our government acted? I think we all know the answer. TTie question is 
what are we willing to do about it?'
. carnegie techIIIUTARTANI
Evan M. Melhado
Editor-in-Chief
Richard G. Sextro Sue Attinson
Business Manager Desk Editor
News Editor...........................................................................Candy Etkin
Sports Editor....................................................................Michael Vargo
Layout Editor........................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor .....................................................John Mera
Assistant News Editor......................................................... Liz Seley
National Advertising Manager..................................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager ........................................Len Wanetik
Secretarial Editor............................................................Judy Birken
Circulation Manager............................................Eric P. Feldmann
Printing Production Manager*: David C- Klein, Harvey A. Shapiro 
News Staff: Judy Carlson, Jeff Evans, Larry Fantauzzi, Larry Friedmann, 
Ellen Levine, Kenneth Lutz, Tom Moore, Chipper Monk, Peggy 
Smolen, Rich Steffens, Howard Weiss, Sue Lohnmeyer,
Layout Staff: Christopher Grondahl, Laura Seidler, Marcy Stern 
Photography Staff: George Hunter, David Leavitt, Sue Lohnmeyer, Gordon 
Morris, Mike Parel, Carey Winters.
Business Staff: Barb Brown, Barrie Dinkins, Carol Teaman
Circulation Staff: Debbie Andruss, Camille Badzgon, Nancy Barron, Valerie 
Walton. C. W. Walters.
Printer's Liason: J. E. Miller
Typicts: Janet Adler, Daine Cushing, Emily Ferber, Adele Friedrich, Suzanne 
Kuni, Annette Moser, Christina vom Saal, Sue Wells.
Annual Subscription Rate: S2-5U 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa . 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except during 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
Readers Wnte
Two Freshmen 
Back Professors
Continued from Page 4
not billed as a forum of opin
ion," neither was it billed as pure
ly factual. The publicity reported 
a panel discussion: Vietnam: 
America at the Crossroads and 
Vietnam, the Draft, and You  
some questions and answers. 
This, as well as the modera
tor's opening statement We'd like 
the central question this evening to 
be whats the Evidence?' indi
cated the panel's purpose of not 
indoctrinating the students, but 
rather, encouraging their interest 
in the war in Vietnam and hopeful
ly giving them some basis to form 
their own opinions.
We feel that in light of all this, 
the time, effort, and concern of 
Messrs. Bushkoff, Derfler, Helfgatt, and Wolfenstein as well as that 
of Robert Altemeyer, George Bay
lor, Michael Chapko, and Paul 
Wortman, can only be commended 
and appreciated.
Ellen Bergmen 
Camille Badzgon 
Freshmen, Psychology
Housing Deserves 
Cost Analysis
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to see the Tartan 
look into and report the price of 
housing on other campuses in this 
area and for schools of similar 
size and location as Carnegie Tech.
I have long felt that Tech's prices 
were out of line and last weeks 
announcement of further price in
creases prompted me to write.
Though I have not made any 
systematic study of the problem 
several points seem significant. 
First, the price of private hous
ing around Oakland is in almost 
every case lower than Tech dor
mitories. My friends in apart
ments pay from $25 per month 
for unfurnished rooms to $55 for 
complete furnishings. One strik
ing example is a five man apart
ment near Craig and Fifth with 
two baths, three bedrooms, living 
room, kitchen, air conditioner, 
new furnishings and a dishwash
er. Price: $250 per month.
Secondly, the schools I have 
looked into for graduate work all 
seem to have less expensive hous
ing than Tech. Princeton offers 
two man suites for $200 per se
mester. Each consists of a study 
and sleeping rooms. Dormitory 
units are kept small, six to eight 
suites per floor, two or three 
floors.
In contrast Tech men will pay 
$245 per semester next year for 
an average two man single room. 
This is about $54 per month. And 
what do you get? You get crowded 
in just about any room. In Hammerschlag you get music from the 
guy two doors down, like it or 
not. In Donner you get fried eve
ry spring day. Female friends 
are allowed to see these expen
sive rooms but once or twice a 
year. In short the only attraction 
I can see for the dorms is their 
closeness to campus.
I believe Mr, Strathmeyer when 
he says they are trying to operate 
on a no profit, no loss basis. 
But somehow Oakland landlords 
are managing to underprice him, 
offer much more and still make a 
profit. Perhaps it is a problem of 
inefficient management or per
haps the maid service is ablgcost 
difference. I hope that a Tartan 
study might be able to uncover 
the source of the difference.
Next year, by requiring fresh
men and sophomores to live in 
school housing, Tech will be in 
financial hardship on these stu
dents. They could save up to $200 
a year in private or fraternity 
housing.
Chris Macosko 
Senior, Chemical Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 9, 1966
RESIDENCE OF DISTINCTION
One room kitchenette equipped, one bath, beautifully furnished, 
$145 up. 3 room apartments, very attractively furnished -
$275 up. Unfurnished 1 and 3 room apartments also available.
The pedestrian detour just be
yond Skibo near the tennis courts 
is the result of a sewer connec
tion operation.
The brick manhole in the cen
ter of the excavation ties in with 
the sewer from the new adminis
tration building. The company is 
connecting the sewer to an outlet, 
located at the near corner of the 
tennis courts.
Apparently, the operation is 
quite common in construction 
practices.
When the work is completed, 
the sidewalk and hill contours will 
be restored. According to plans,
the job should be completed some
time this week.
The Largest Selection off 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos - in tk* City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 Forbos St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
if she doesnt give it to you...
get it yourself!

Aao O- Tonpoo- by r-H MR L 
Aao neg draaBoHL 
YO-eH neg drTo kvo 
RN ofnar TOPSvL
Heres the scoop.
Sentry doesnt think 
you should pay extra for car 
insurancejust because 
youre young. The Sentry man 
has a questionnaire.
Tells if you can save 
up to $50 or more.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE.
% 795-1393 
toSENTRY Tl INSURANCE
Cologne, 6 oz., $4.50 
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 12 oz, 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50SWANK, NEW YORK - SOLE DISTRIBUTOR
Sewer Connects Bldg. With Outlet
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Ocdkktad Bmadqucu lit for Iff Ltgft FasUoa
POBBa * ATWOOD ORN MOW- WD, * VU, m 
Pipelines Pass Near Skibo
Tartan Photo by George Hunter
Position requires sales and distribution at special college rates.
WRITE TO:
Mr. Henry Gallin
Asst. Mgr. College and School Service 
229 W. 43rd Street 
New York, N. Y.
Or see Len Wanetik at the Tartan
The faculty of the music depart
ment will present the sixth of the 
Carnegie Concert Series this eve
ning at 8:30 p.m.
The program of chamber mu
sic will be presented in Car
negie Lecture Hall.
TYRING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Corrected.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclus ively
It frugs, fishes, cha chas, 
bossa novas, monkeys, 
merengues, even twists 
without a wrinkle.
An Arrow Decton will look 
just as fresh on the last 
dance as it did on the first. 
Decton is Arrows blend of 
65% Dacron and 35% 
cotton that frustrates 
wrinkles. A wash-and-wear 
that needs only a little 
touching up. Available in 
solid or stripe styles.
Neat tabber snap collar 
(as shown) or classic 
button down. $6.95.
Bold New Breed by
-ARROW*
Stye New fork SimeChamber Music
Comedy To Open* 
At Craft Theater
The Complaisant Lover, a 
serious comedy written by Gra
ham Greene, will open at the 
Craft Avenue Theatre of the Pitts
burgh Playhouse on Saturday, 
March 12.
Playing leading roles will be 
Lydia Bruce, Victor Rhodes, ana* 
Clive Root. Leon Stevens will di
rect.
The play concerns a marital 
triangle in which the lover becomes 
jealous of the husband.
Virginia Woolf, currently at 
the Hamlet St. Theatre, will be 
held over until March 27.
THISTLE GETCHA
Between Classes or at Study Break X
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
campus representative wanted

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 9, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Ken Lutz
Exhibits
1 cent LIFE Lithographs. Works Jensen, Rosenquist, Appel, Alechinsky, Rauschenberg, Indiana, and Warhol, Chatham College Falk Hall 
Foyer, Woodland Rd. Through next week.
Recent oil paintings by Fay Mowery Moore, Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 
N. Negley Ave.
Arts and Treasures of Nineteen Nationality Groups. Henry Clay Frick 
Fine Arts Building, Schenley Plaza.
Exhibit of Paintings by Ralph Carr, Visual Arts Gallery, 5746 Ells
worth Ave.
Paintings and Drawings by Sylvia Baum. Regent House, 7604 Forbes 
Ave. Through next week.
?Masterpieces of Glass and Latin Festival. Buhl Planetarium, 
North Side.
Drama and Music
*Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. 
at Hamlet St. nightly except Monday. Student tickets for all perfor
mances.0 Pittsburgh Symphony. Works by Schubert, Liszt, Ben Weber, AlbenizSurinach; Andre Watts, pianist. Syria Mosque. March 11 at 8:40 p.m., 
March 13 at 3:10 p.m.
Chatham College: Percussion ensemble, Stanley Leonard, director. 
Music Center. Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Carnegie Tech Faculty Concert by John Colmna, Ethan Stange, Char
les Wendt, Lawrence McCann. Works by Colman, Bach, Kbdaly, 
Weber. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Organ Recital: Paul Koch. Guest artists, Antony and Louise Doschek, 
violin and piano. Carnegie Hall, Northside. Marchl3 at 3 p.m.
Organ Recital: David Porkola of New Jersey. Carnegie Music Hall, 
^ Oakland. March 13 at 3 p.m.
Classical Guitarist, Alivio Diaz. Chatham College Chapel. March 14 
at 8:30 p.m.
Greek Sing, University of Pittsburgh. Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland. 
Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Sports
?Professional Hockey. Pittsburgh Hornets vs. Springfield Indians, to
night at 8 p.m. Hornets vs. Victoria, March 12 at 8 p.m. Civic Arena.
* Admission charged.
Campms U DrmOaoHI Hmme'S
MEM 
3hW3UlhllCKW 
=ADKcW
EK==CZV*Z t*W 
D=cW3KC^
U. 8. KEDS
MIS Forbes Avo. (Act trmm Btrmm Theater)
WOMEN3hW3UlhllCKW
=ADKcWD=A*W2cKWW W3KW
Pittsburgh's Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 
3 FINE STORES
relusive at f^obert
DIAMOND RINGS
LANAI..................FROM $100
A diamond solataire that fit cloe to the finger yet gives the diamond an 
"Up in the Air appearance in 18 Kt. White Gold Worlds finest diamonds 
to fit your budget. Terms arranged
Worldt Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budgett
l()ll\ \l KOBfKlV SON (
Pittsburgh429 Wood St. 
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
WAA Cagers 
Lose 2 More
Miss Jane Fisk's W.A.A. bas
ketball team, foiled by the un
expected loss of its two biggest 
girls (both five foot ten), lost 
its second and third games of the 
year last week. With Evie Rhodes 
resting a sore back and Jody 
Harlan tied up in sorority activi
ties, Tech dropped contests against 
Pitt and California State.
Last Tuesday the girls visited 
Pitt at the new Trees Hall and 
were handed a 51-32 setback on the 
spacious floor. Pitt led at halftime, 17-16 and never really had 
the game sewn up until the fourth 
quarter when the Tech guards, mi
nus their 510 players, were un
able to get the ball to the for
wards. For the sake of exper
ience, the Tech coach put in the 
second team and Pitt ran up the 
score.
Saturday, on their own floor for 
the first time this season, the 
Tartettes were confident of a vic
tory over California State, but their 
confidence could not make up for 
cold shooting and obvious lack of 
height. With Tech again missing 
its tallest players, California con
trolled both backboards and had 
the high scorer, Gloria Yuschak 
with 15 points. Able to play the 
second team through half of the
Swim Team 4th 
In Penn-Ohio Meet
At the Penn-Ohio swimming meet in Slippery 
Rock Saturday the Carnegie Tech team finished 
fourth in a field of seven. This was about as expect
ed, as Tech came out ahead of the two teams it had 
beaten in dual meets -- Cleveland State and West
minsterand behind Slippery Rock and Grove City, 
whom they had lost decisively to earlier.
final point totals were:The
Grove City 118, Slippery Rock 
74, Youngstown 37, Tech 21, Lock 
Haven 16, Cleveland State 13, and 
Westminster 7. The victorious 
Grove City mermen broke five pool 
records. Tom Cracium, Youngs
towns lightning-fast freestyle 
man, broke two records himself.
Tech Scoring 
Scoring in the meet was on the 
basis of 7 points for first place,
5 for second, 4 for third, on down 
to 1 point for sixth in the indivi
dual events. In relay races, each 
place was worth double its usual 
point .total. Tech scoring: Pete 
Hutter took a 3rd in the 50-yard
game, State coasted to a 31-18 vic
tory. Tuesday, the Tartettes faced 
Indiana State, one of the best 
teams in the area. Pitt meets the 
girls at home on Thursday after
noon.
freestyle and a 5th in the 100 free
style. Les Hough had 6th in the 
50 freestyle, Mike Zimmerman 6th 
in diving, Bill Cots worth 5th in 
backstroke, John OBrien 6th in 
the 500-yard freestyle, and the 
team of Cotsworth, Bill Johnson, 
Frank Wyman, and John Perry fi
nished 4th in the 400-yard medley 
relay.
French Films
The monthly presentation of 
French documentary films will 
be held in DH 2210, Thursday, 
March 10, at 11:30 a.m. It will 
feature two films: Pain Blank, 
Pain Noir, scenes from the his
tory of Paris, and Sillages, a 
collage of daily scenes in France.
All interested persons are in
vited to attend.
CHARGER multi-purpose 
STCH airplane.
OVI Research 
satellite system.
CON VA IR 600 
transport.
YOUR 
FUTURE 
IS HERE 
AND
HOW
C-141 Empennage 
for USAF C-141.
1
ii

ATLAS SLV-3 
space launch vehicle.
CENTAUR high energy 
upper stage vehicle.
LITTLE (OE II 
solid rocket booster.
AT GENERAL DYNAMICS Convair Division
Exciting assignments await new college engineering, science and mathematics 
graduates at Convair Division, the aerospace-oriented Division of General Dynamics 
Corporation. You will work with top Convair Engineers and Scientists 
involved in challenging programs that include spacecraft, space boosters, 
military and commercial aircraft, electronics systems and oceanographic research.
Your career with Convair Division is enhanced by the opportunity to live in San
Diego . . . one of the countrys foremost vacationlands. It's a fun
city with a pleasant year 'round climate and superb recreational facilities.
And its institutions of higher education and research centers
have endowed the community with a most desirable academic atmosphere.
See your placement officer to arrange a personal on-campus interview with 
our representatives, or write to Mr R. M. Smith, Manager ot Professional 
Placement, General Dynamics Convair, 5518 Kearny Villa Road,
San Diego, California 92112 An Equal Opportunity Employer.
GENERAL DYNAMICS
Convair Division

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 * CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, March 9, 1966,
Roundball Season Ends 
With Wins Home & Away
An anticlimatic 72-52 victory over Case Tech in Cleveland Saturday night 
ended Carnegie Techs 1965-66 basketball season with a 16 and 6 record. 
The win was anticlimatic because it came just three days after Carnegies 
final home game, in which the Tartans outscored Waynesburg 105 to 93 and set 
three school records of various kinds.
As noted in last weeks Tartan. 
the Waynesburg win assured this 
years team of the best won-lost 
percentage in Tech history, save 
that of the 1923-24 team which won 
11 games on an abbreviated 14- 
game schedule. As it was, the cur
rent squad finished with a .727 
percentage, compared to .786 in 
23-24 and .654 (next best) in 
31-32. Other Tech marks esta
blished in the Waynesburg game 
were most points scored in a reg
ulation game, 105, and most field 
goals in a regulation game, 45. In 
1960 the Tartans beat Slippery Rock 
119-116, scoring 47 field goals, 
but that game went two overtime 
periods.
Little Guys Star
Don Keefer and Ray Morrison, 
the two smallest men on the start
ing five, were the stars against 
Waynesburg. Morrison, going into 
the game as Techs leading scor
er with a 16.8 average, topped 
that mark by almost ten points 
by scoring 26. Keefer scored on
ly 24, but consider the style in 
which he scored them  on twelve 
field goals, including 11 in a row 
without missing.
With the Tartans holding a nar
row 43-40 lead in the waning mo
ments of the first half Keefer 
pumped in four of his unorthodox 
two-hand jump shots, then caged a 
fantastic mid-court shot at the 
buzzer. He hit six more times in 
the second half before finally miss
ing a layup with a score 99-88. 
Keefer was also Techs leading 
rebounder with 14.
Since this was the last home 
game, Coach Mel Cratsley start
ed all the seniors  Morrison, 
Pete Ricardella and Chester Reft, 
even though Reft and Ricardella 
arent regulars. The seniors held 
their own against the Waynesburg 
first string until Burdett, Lang, 
and Keefer came in midway through 
the half. When Keefer hit his hot 
streak, Tech pulled out to a 53-43 
halftime lead.
At times in the second half the 
Tartans increased their lead to 
15 points, but the Yellowjackets
Look out, here I go soys Don 
Keefer as he starts to spring for 
a layup against Waynesburg. 
Guarding is Dave Smith.
Tartan photo by Dave Leavitt
Ray Morrison, leading the Tartan fast break, drives towards Waynesburgh's Harry Theofiledes (21) and Dave Smith (25).
Tartan photo by Dave Leavitt
matched them shot for shot. Al
though the visitors didnt let the 
game develop into a runaway, they 
never again threatened.
Guard Alan Leshor led Waynes
burg in scoring with 24 and Dave 
Smith, a muscular 6-2 center, 
had 21.
Coach's Own Record
When Tech beat Case on Satur
day, a personal mark for coach 
Cratsley was set  none of his 
teams had ever won as many as 
16 games. Only two hundred spec
tators, most of them disinterest
ed, watched the contest. Tech led 
31-20 at the half, and before the 
game was over everyone on the 
squad had played a little.
Nevertheless, Cratsley insist
ed that it was not an easy game. 
Jeff Kalin had 18 points, Keefer 
16, and Morrison 15. Keefer went 
on another streak in this game 
hitting six jumps shots in a row.
It was the 12th consecutive loss 
for the Case quintet, which had 
won only two.
See Next Paper
The Tartan next week will carry 
a complete review of the season, 
including individual statistics. 
There will also be a story on the 
junior varsity, which won seven 
out of nine games this year, los
ing only two games with the Pitt 
freshmen.
'CClubMeets
The first meeting of the Varsity 
C Club will be held at 4:30 p.m. 
tomorrow in the Wherrett Room 
in Skibo. All varsity lettermen 
are urged to attend.
LEWISSales-Repain
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 621-4211 
H15 OAKLAND AVE
VP Schatz Hosts 
Varsity Hoopsters
Edward R. Schatz, Vice Presi
dent for Academic Affairs at Car
negie Tech, honored the varsity 
basketball team and coaches with 
a supper at his home this Sunday 
evening.
Head coach Mel Cratsley says 
that Mr. Schatz, along with Vice 
President for Planning Robert J. 
Kibbee (and more recently Presi
dent Stever), has long been among 
the most enthusiastic fans of Tech 
basketball.
The boys really appreciate it, 
says Mr. Cratsley, when they 
know the faculty is behind them.
Trackmen Run 
In AU Meet 
At South Park
IM Bowling Final Slated; 
Basketball LeaguesShape Up
In the intramural bowling semifinals last week, 
E.J.s A easily beat GSIA while TDP won over 
ATO A. This Saturday the E.J.s who bowled an 
842 last week, will meet TDP, which had 797, for 
the school championship.
Basketball
The regular basketball season 
concluded this past Monday and 
Tuesday with the top-seeded and 
second-seeded teams in each lea
gue playing each other. Prior to 
this time, the leagues shaped up 
like this:
Celtics League  Defending 
school champion BTP had little 
trouble in its four-team league and 
just had to get past GSIA B to 
go undefeated. Warriors Lea
gue  Bill Oosterhuis, last 
years Most Valuable Player in 
I.M. ball, averaged 25 points a 
game to lead Grad Physics into the 
top spot. Jets League  ATO A, 
with an attack averaging 80 points 
a game, had no trouble. Knicks 
League  Two undefeated teams, 
GSIA A and TDP A, met 
head-on for the league playoff 
berth. Hawks League  The lead
ing Civil Hammers, with two allIM men in Mel Ramey and Chuck 
Oliver, were averaging 71 points 
per game. Lakers League  Topseeded PKA needed only awinover 
the Deadbeats to wrap up a play
off spot. Pistons League  Un
beaten SN improved as the season 
progressed and should take first 
place. Royals League  Grad 
Math pulled through two close 
games to practically clinch first.
Jag Leagues  The Dorm Wipe 
Outs, Hot Nuts, and Civil Ham
mers A are the only undefeat
ed Jag teams and will probably be 
in the playoffs along with the Dormants.
Members of Carnegie Techs 
track team got their first taste 
of competition Saturday in the 
Junior AAU indoor meet at South 
Park.Ken Batorski, Carnegies 
freshman middle-distance man 
from Connecticut, sped to a 1:16.3 
first place in the 600-yard run. 
The race was run in heats and 
though Batorski drew one with lit
tle competition, he bettered the 
times of three Pitt trackmen in 
other heats.
Last years co-captain, Chris 
Macosko, kicked hard to make up 10 
yards in the last lap of the 100-yard 
run but couldnt make up the last 
step on Pitts Ken Lawton. Both 
men broke the 6-year-old meet 
record, as Lawton finished in 
2:23.3 and Macosko in 2:23.4. Both 
had 2:00 when passing the half 
mile mark.
The mile run proved a furious 
race. Techs junior, Roger Cairns, 
broke the meet record with 4:27.4 
but still placed fourth. Pitts Frank 
Handelman won in 4:15.4. Cairns 
stayed with him through the gruel
ing first three quarters, clocked 
in 3:11.
Another freshman surprise this 
season is Ken Happach. With only 
one days practice between the end 
of the J.V. basketball season and 
the meet, Happach took a fourth 
place in the high jump.
Open On April 2
The Tartans now begin four 
weeks of concentrated training for 
the opening meet with Jeannette, 
on April 2. The team has filled 
out but is still short on depth 
and experienced men in the hur
dles and nearly all field events.
The return of field man George 
Schuessler from the academi
cally disabled is welcome. The 
team also hopes for the return 
of junior Tim McMillan, sprint
er and holder of the Carnegie 
Tech triple jump record.
Anyone still interested in com
ing out for the team should come 
to practice at the locker rooms 
below Donner Hall. Practice ses
sions are held at 4:30 p.m. Mon
day through Thursday, 11 a.m. 
Saturday, and 2 p.m. Sunday.
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in Brcs-Ddc-Ev
AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, 
ELECTRICAL, 
and METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING MECHANICS 
APPLIED MATHEMATICS 
PHYSICS and 
ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Pratt &WhitneyAircraft
TUESDAY, MAR. 15
Appointments should be made 
in advance through your 
College Placement Office
Ureo -dAR
DIVISION OF UNITIO AIRCRAFT CORP.
I
An tquil Opportunity Employer. MiF
SPECIALISTS IN POWER . . . POWER FOR PROPULSION POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS. 
CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT. MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES, MARINE ANO INDUSTRIAL A
