[he Tartan
Volume 67  Number 13Wednesday, December 6, 1967
Wednn say ,nDdncnmbrb19nc 
6bbnm7 6L EL N1L sAmTndnmIn
Carneg-ie-Mellons Student Government, represented by 
Dale Peschel, Susie Plaks, and Alan Witcher, was in attendence at the four day, 4th National Conference of the 
Associated Student Governments of the USA. The confer
ence, scheduled from November 22, to November 26, was 
held at the St. Francis Hotel in --------------------------------------------------------
Kni toEE sA--nCn sAhh1bbnn f-rmc 
WA sdnrbn 6 WAbr- sA--nCn Mm91dAmhnmb
San Francisco, California. Near
ly 400 campus leaders represen
ted schools from Massachusetts 
to Hawaii.
The conference, offered 
workshops, discussions, and a 
drug symposium. The work
shops, conducted by 20 student 
leaders from as many univers
ities, were directly concerned 
with problems related to the 
campus and to student govern
ment. The workshops, consider
ed such topics as Experiment
al Colleges, Judicial Systems, 
Student Government and the 
Campus Pres s, Dormitory 
Government, and Course and 
Teacher Evaluation.
The conference was also 
highlighted by an exciting 
schedule of speakers. Dr. Robert
D. Clark, San Jose State Col
lege President, spoke on student 
responsibility and the role of 
Student Government. Othei 
speakers included Peter Jen
nings, anchorman for ABC 
news, Harry Edwards, Assist
ant Professor of Sociology at 
San Jose State University, and 
co-ordinator for the San Jose 
State Chapter of the United 
Black Students for Action, and 
Paul Goodman, noted author 
and editorial critic.
Of all the speakers, the most 
surprising comments came from 
Mr. Edwards. Black Power ad
vocate Edwards revealed a plan 
asking all Negro athletes to 
boycott the 1968 Olympics un
less duly compensated. Because 
ASG is not politicly oriented, 
Edwards remarks prompted 
ASG President Bob White of the 
University of Oklahoma to point 
out that The organization, by 
virtue of its very nature, ab
solutely cannot and will not en
dorse, concur, approve, or dis
approve any remarks or opin
ions expressed by any of its 
speakers.
The one-day drug sympos
ium was devoted to the topic: 
Campus Drugs: An Objective 
Analysis. Dr. Donald B. Loria, 
chairman of the New York 
State Committee on Drug 
Abuse, keynoted the sympos
ium. Other noted professors in 
the fields of psychiatry, psycho
logy. sociology, and medicine 
gave papers and discussed facts 
surrounding drug usage. Con
tributing in this catago>y were 
Dr. Louis J. West, University 
of Oklahoma Medical Center, 
Dr. Lincoln Clark, Professor of 
Psychology at the University 
of Utah, Mr. William McGlothin
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Meeting 
and Initiation
Tuesday, Dec. 12th
Skibo, 4:30
of the Institute of Government 
and Public Welfare, and Dr. 
Clay Dahlberg of the New York 
Chapter of the American Med
ical Association.
The C-MU delegation, attend
ed the ASG conference as ob
server school. Having paid a 
$100 registration fee we are 
now members of ASG for the 
following year, pending their 
ratification of our constitution.
Students May Attend 
Unique Conference
C-MU students have the oppor
tunity to be part of an unusual 
and valuable conference to be 
held in Cleveland, Dec. 26, 1967, 
to Jan. 1, 1968. The Cleve
land Week will bring together
3,000 people concerned with so
cial change through the formu
lation of the university. Partici
pants will be members of univ
ersity communities, including 
students, teachers, and adminis
trators; there will be represent
atives from a wide range of U.S. 
Lifefrom majority and min
ority groups; students and re
source people from abroad will 
represent diverse international 
perspectives.
The Cleveland Week will 
embody a style of education 
which is dialogical, nonauthoriatarian and issue-centered. Some 
of the issues explored will be 
the drraft, technology, poverty, 
education, youth and world de
velopment with economic just
ice. The basic unit of the educa
tive exploration will be depth 
education groups. DEGs are 
formed by individuals who share 
an interest in the particular top
ic, will discover areas of agree
ment and disagreement in debate about the subject and will 
focus on the problem itself and 
ways to work with it.
During the Cleveland Week 
there will be an emphasis on the 
lull participation and creativity 
by those attending. Activities are 
planned to stimulate develop
ment of sensitivity to nonverbal 
as well as verbal expression. 
Student-produced, experimental, 
and other significant films will 
be shown in a nearly continuous 
film festival and also during 
open time slots on the confer
ences closed circuit television.
The conference, sponsored by 
the University Christian Move
ment, will be held at the Sheraton-Ceveland, Statler Hilton, and 
Pick-Carter hotels in Cleveland. 
Registration fee is $25.00, room 
and board is $5.00 CMU students 
interested in attending and work
ing our financial ari*angements 
should contact the Y office, 57 
Skibo.
With the announcement last 
fall of the intended merger of 
Carnegie Tech with the Mellon 
Institute came the less public
ized proposal of incorporating 
a college of humanities and so
cial sciences into the new uni
versity. Toward the end of de
veloping a program for such a 
college, a committee headed by 
Dean Steinberg of Margaret 
Morrison has been working 
since late last winter. The com
mittees report, released to the/ 
faculty before Thanksgiving, 
outlines a college striking in 
its departure from the tradition
al mold.
Seldom does one encounter an 
educational undertaking of the 
scale involved in creating a new 
college. When such a project is 
attempted at an institution with 
the tremendous intellectual and 
financial resources of Carnegie, 
the result can be truly exciting. 
It is this sense of excitement in 
developing a program which 
can provide an extremely stim
ulating education which makes 
the committees report so fas
cinating to read. The committees 
stated intention is to create a 
total college environment which 
will cause the student to deveiope intellectually, to learn to 
think in a wide variety of dis
ciplines, and not merely to ab
sorb a required body of facts 
and mechanical skills.
The primary emphasis of the 
report is in proposing a fresh
man year which will integrate 
the student into the college com
munity and provide him with 
the opportunity of establishing 
close intellectual relationships 
with his fellow students and his 
professors. At the same time 
the freshman year will give him 
a broad introduction to fields 
not strictly included under the 
term humanities and social 
sciences, such as science, math, 
and the tine arts. In addition 
there will be a metacurriculum of plays, concerts, field 
trips, and lectures which will in
troduce the student to the in
tellectual offerings of the city 
and school and provide topics 
for discussion in his classes.
Freshman Pass/Fail
One of the most striking of 
the committees proposals is to 
grade freshmen on a pass-fail 
basis for the entire first year. 
Although grades will be given 
out to indicate to the student 
how well he is doing through
out the year, they will not be
g6EW st6KsM
Scotch & Soda 
Auditions
Fri....................................4 to 7 pm
Sat.............................12 to 5 pm
Sun.........................12 to 5 pm
Wherrett Room, Skibo
kept on record. Students will 
thus receive one gradepass or 
failat the end of the year. The 
pass-fail system, in the words 
of the report, is designed to 
give the student frequent feed
back and yet allow him to be 
motivated by something more 
mature than the traditional 
gradets.
The number of courses per 
semester for the new college 
will be four instead of five. At 
the same time, there quarters of 
the curriculum for the first two 
years will be set for all stu
dents. A notable exception will 
be one completely free elective 
first semester of the freshman 
year to allow the student to im
mediately pursue a special in
terest.
During his first two years 
the student will be required to 
take two semesters in math and 
two more in science. A course 
in science and technology is al
so tentatively scheduled for the 
junior year. The mathematics 
course will include training in 
the computer and, if possible, 
an introduction to calculus. The 
intention of the committee is to 
provide humanities students 
with a background in science, 
and in order that this back
ground be more than a mere 
survey, they propose to train 
the student in the use of mathe
matics.
On the other end of the aca
demic spectrum, a course en
titled Introduction to the Arts 
is planned for the freshman 
year.
More than an appreciation 
course, it will require the stu
dent to participate in artistic 
creation to the extent which his 
abilities will permit.
The remainder of the first 
two years will be filled by a 
psychology - oriented course to 
help freshmen understand the 
educational process, a one se
mester course in history, an 
arts and society course in the 
sophomore year modeled after 
the present History of Arts and 
Civilization, an introduction to 
literature, and a social science 
course including a major social 
science project for the second 
semester, as well as two elec
tives in the second year. In ad
dition, freshmen will participate 
in seminars in which small 
groups will work with a mem
ber of the faculty on a project 
of scholarly research.
Outside the classroom, fresh
men will meet in small groups 
to discuss their problems and 
common experiences. To help 
students adjust to the univers
ity, counseling services are to 
be expanded, and to facilitate 
contact between students of 
both sexes and faculty, co-ed 
dormitories with faculty mem
bers in residence are proposed.
In total, the committees re
port is a sincere attempt to 
propose more than the usual 
liberal arts education. It is 
their hope to establish CarnegieMellon University as a leader in
humanities and social sciences. 
Toward this end, the adminis
tration has pledged as much 
financial support as is needed to 
expand and improve the present 
departments and possibly to add 
new pepartments.
The proposal is aimed, of 
course, more at future students 
at Carnegie than ait those al
ready here. The full extent of 
the program will be realized 
only by the small pilot class to 
be admitted into H&SS either 
next September or in Septemof 1969. But the process of de
veloping a new college will in
volve basic and immediate 
changes in the philosophy and 
program of the entire univers
ity. The effect of re-evalmating 
departments and curricula in 
the humanities and social sci
ences will inevitably result in 
an expansion of course offer
ings and changes in require
ments for H&SS majors for 
present as well as future stu
dents. Required courses in 
H&SS for students in the other 
colleges may be taken from the 
pool of courses required for 
students in the new college. 
Moreover, with the admission 
of a wider variety of students 
into C-MU, the atmosphere of 
the school will change to an 
(Continued on Page 5)
Heinz / NRA Expand 
Awards Program
Preliminary approval has 
beerk given by the H. J. Heinz 
Company for the expansion of 
the Heinz/National Restaurant 
Association Scholarship Awards 
program, already regarded as 
the outstanding scholarship pro
gram far the institutional food 
service industry.
Dr. Chester Hall, Educational 
Director of the NRA, said the 
program will assure training of 
more skilled managers for the 
industry through the establish
ment of new and additional 
scholarship categories and more 
meaningful assistance to 
scholarship recipients.
The Heinz/NRA program, be
gun in 1964, presently offers 
five scholarships annually to 
outstanding students interested 
in food service management ca
reers. While the existing 
scholarships perform a vital 
service to the foodservice in
dustry, Heinz and the NRA feel 
that an expanded program is 
necessary to help meet the 
growing demand for highlytrained foodservice managers 
and technicians.
Re-evaluation of the scholar
ships awards was started more 
than a year ago, A comprehen
sive report prepared by Dr. 
Hall formed the basis for many 
of the innovations contained in 
the new program.
Details of the upgraded pro
gram are being worked out and 
will be announced over the next 
few months.

---------------------------------------------------

frCn . R WtM W6,W6K R Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ
EDITORIAL
H&SS: A CHANCE TO 
WORK TOGETHER
wGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGKGGGGGGGaGGGGGGGGGGGGGaGGGGGGGaGGGGaGGGGGGGGG--------------------pGGGaGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG1r*-e1--------------------u
Letters to the Editor
On the front page of this issue you will find a description of 
the proposal for the College of Humanities and Social Sciences as 
proposed by Dean Steinbergs committee.
We believe that this proposal is striking in its reestablishment 
of Carnegie as a source of new educational developments. The 
committee has done its job well.
However, the Tartan realizes, as does the committee itself, 
that this paper is not the final word on the new college. Having 
done its work, the committee is turning over the report to the 
student body for criticisms and suggestions.
The Tartan feels that the participation of the student body in 
this matter cannot be stressed enough. The report was written by 
a group of professors. Ats such, it contains their point of views 
primarily, to the exclusion of some student flavor.
As well, there may be some things the committee simply over
looked. These people are human, and, hard as they have tried, they 
may have missed a point which the student body would consider 
to be of great importance.
The dialogue which now can develop between students and 
faculty will undoubtedly produce a better report, and in the future 
a better college, than could be developed without discussion.
Students should not feel that their opinions are unimportant. 
The committee which pr oduced this report is actively seeking stu
dent opinion. They are sincere in their attempts to better the re
port through facultyjstudent dialogue.
To that end, there is a student committee connected with the 
report. This committee is attempting to provide a link between 
students and faculty of the most basic and functional nature. Stu
dents are urged to contact either Dean Steinberg or any of the 
members listed in the report if they have suggestions for addi
tions ( alterations, or deletions to the report.
We hope that there will be many interested students. We, as 
educated people who will be assuming vast responsibilities in the 
near future, should be concerned about a new development in 
education.
Those of us who are seniors should be delighted to have seen 
our school came such a long way since we were freshmen. We 
Shall soon be alumni. Hence, there is a feeling that we should do 
as much as passible to aid in the continuing growth of our institu
tion wfhile we are still here.
For the freshman, the report has import and should draw 
enthusiasm and criticism because it is opening up vast new areas 
of education in which they can participate. They are in the middle 
of an educational revolution.
Sophomores and juniors fall in between these two classes in 
feeling and intensity of feeling. For them, it is a chance to par
ticipate in a revolution which they might not savour the direct 
fruits of, but which will have importance to untold numbers of 
people, both here and at other institutions.
Hence, the Tartan urges the students of Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity to read the copies of the report on reserve in the library 
and to make comment to the student committee or Dean Steinberg 
on the proposals in the paper. In this manner, we shall have a 
truly advanced humanities and social science department created 
out of discussion and interplay between students and faculty.
And chances like this dont come along every day.
the Tartan *
NSggg'
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-In-ChiefManaging Editor..........................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manger.......................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor................................ SUZANNE UNDAMOOD
News Editor.........................................ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor...................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor.....................Rich Steffens
Sports Editors ....................................Jim Jank*
Ralph Swoboda
Photography Editors.......................Gordon Morris
David UavittLocal Advertising Manager.......H. Karl KrummelNational Advertising Manager.......Fredda Simon
Layout Editor ..............................Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor...............Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor ...........................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager..............Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers...........................Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor................................E. W. Seiey
Desk Staff Linda Cameron, Susan Gordon, Carol Krueger, Betsy Payne, Barbara Schneiderman.
News Staffi Rickl Borden, Jenifer Digby, Beverly Spiro, Rachel Schwartz.
Photo Staff Morgan McCune, Bill Psncs, David A. Rosenberg, David L Rosenberg, Jerry Siskind, John Tate,Joe Tyler.
Sports Staffs Larry Anderson, Jon Arnold, Don Baer, Ed Dolbow, Ronn Finnin, Harold Herr*, Alan Letzt, Tony Rees, Jeff Ruben, George Smith, Mlks Smolens.
Advertising Staff* Carroll Swarmer, John Knechtel, Danny Pkkholtz.
Business Staff: Hilary Kurzweil. Jayne Levin, Carol Le Bow Laura Warren, Tom McGuire.
Layout Staffi Liz Yellin.
Secretarial Staffi Mory Kay Cruikshank, Virginia McKeivey,Lois Bender, Donne Cline, Horriet NodeL
Commuter Room 
Unsatisfactory
Editor, The Tartan:
The room which this school 
has the gall to call the com
muter room, is a disgrace. The 
only furnishings are two tables, 
some lamps, and three beds 
which are usually filthy. I as
sume the beds are for resting, 
but this is impossible due to the 
continual racket coming firom 
the cafeteria carts being rolled 
down the corridor right next 
to the room. Add to this the 
banging of the employees lock
ers in the room, and you get 
the impression the commuter 
room is under a railroad track.
Since it is in the basement 
and has no windows, it might 
be more accurate to describe 
the room as a fall-out shelter. 
If that were the case, I cant 
imagine a fate worse than hav
ing to listen to the jarring clunk 
of the clock every time it reg
isters one minute.
If the school cannot find a 
better location for the commut
er room, it could at least re
move the employees lockers, in
stall accoustical tiling, get an
other clock, and paint the room 
to add some cheer.
Irene Vahanian
Teacher Advocates 
Active Participation
Editor, The Tartan:
Is it not a sign of self-respect 
to call for an end to attacks on 
civilian population centers, whe
ther carried out by napalm, con
ventional bombing, or simply 
bulldozers? The fury of flaming 
napalm as you suggest in your 
editorial of November 14, has 
become the symbol of warfare 
in which neither legal nor mor
al ends limit the users of force.
If we cannot control the acts 
of otfr own government in one 
specific war, how can we hope 
to achieve the general control 
of violence for which your edit
orial pleads? The silence of the 
bystander acquiescing in crime 
can have no dignity.
Daniel P. Resnick 
Asst Prof., History
Committee to Confer 
On New Calendar
Editor, The Tartan:
In your open letter of No
vember 22 to me, you were 
right about the Rubber Rum
pus Room over at Warner Hall 
but wrong about someone ap
propriating my stationery. Be
lieve it or not, because of some 
slow moving administrative ma
chinery a floor or two below 
the Rumpus Room, I have not 
yet received new stationery.
I appreciate your comments 
on the proposed calendar and 
the new Tartan proposal. You 
may be sure that your proposal 
and any others will be given 
consideration by the Acedemic 
Affairs Committee in the lim
ited time which it has available. 
The Committee must approve a 
new calendar for 1968-69 at its 
December 11 meeting. If all con
siderations cannot be made by 
that date, the Committee may 
find it necessary to approve the 
traditional calendar for 1968-69 
and delay a changed calendar 
to 1969-70.
The Academic Affairs Com
mittee has six student mem
bers: Dale Peschel, Steve Ba
ker, Linda Pecaites, Rich Staf
ford, Paul Rudovsky and Don
ald Newman. I hope the stu
dents of the University will 
make their wishes about the 
calendar known to the student 
members of the Committee or 
to me before December 11.
Sincerely yours, 
Edward R. Schatz, 
Vice President for Academic 
Affairs
Student Dissatisfied 
With Paper
Editor, The Tartan:
The Tartan of November 22, 
1967 strikes me, in the words 
of your own Sports Department, 
as sheer lunacy. As an Eng
lish major, I am dismayed at 
the number of errors that es
caped your proof-reader. As a 
student of C-MU, I am distress
ed at the lack of newsworthy 
articles and the poor organiza
tion of those articles which do 
have some merit. For example, 
five articles which reek of sar
casm and malicious wit can 
be found on pages 6, 8, and 9.
Unfortunately, unless I am 
quite behind in the times, this 
was not the April Fools Day is
sue, and those articles had no 
business being mixed in with 
the more important articles. Al
so, was there so little news that 
an article citing various architectual awards from last May 
had to be dug up to fill space? 
And why was the proposed cal
endar for next year, an item of 
primary concern for the major
ity of the student body, stuck 
in the corner of the Sports page 
(the next to the last page) when 
space in the paper is filled with 
advertisments ?
Finally, I would like to say 
that I am personally disgusted 
with the knowledge that the 
editor of a student newspaper, 
a service to the public of the 
university, can be so small and 
selfish as to use this newspaper 
for his personal weapon against 
his own personal enemies.
Rosalyn C. Ryave 
English, 68
Editors Note
Dear Rosalyn:
Yes, Rosalyn, there really is 
a proof-reading staff. Unfortun
ately we were tremendously un
derstaffed and rushed prior to 
vacation just as our printer was. 
We realize there were a great 
many proof-reading as well as 
layout errors and we apologize 
for them. However, it has never 
been the policy of the Tartan 
to restrict humor only to the 
April Fools Day issue. News
papers on many other campus
es, publish humorous issues 
throughout the year, and this 
issue was an experiment on the 
part of the Tartan. Perhaps, if 
you really are dismayed by
Forum Announces 
First Turkish Award
A cooperative effort by the 
International Poetry Forum, the 
Koppers Company of Pittsburgh 
and the University of Pittsburgh 
Press has made possible the 
creation of the International 
Poetry Forums first Turkish 
Award.
The winner of this award is 
Fazil Husnu Daglarca. He was 
selected by a panel of five 
judges representing the literary, 
editorial and academic commun
ity of Turkey. The panel was 
chaired by Yasar Nabi Nayir, a 
leading editor and the chief Tur
kish representative at the Eur
opean Community of Authors. 
The International Poetry For
um will invite Mr. Daglarca to 
appear under its auspices during 
its 1968-1969 season for a read
ing of his poems in Turkish and 
English at a time coincidental 
with the appearance of the bi
lingual edition of his book by 
the University of Pittsburgh 
Press. Mr. Daglarcas poems will 
be translated by Professor Talat 
Sait Halman, who is presently 
at Princeton University and who 
has both translated and edited 
the work of many modern Tur
kish poets.
The creation of this award 
has already been hailed in Tur
key as a milestone in the history 
of that countrys literary rela
tions with the United States and 
the West.
our errors and disapprove of 
our humor you could contribute 
to our staff. Concerning the art
icle on Architectual awards: it 
may have happened last May, 
but we did not receive notice 
until recently and we are very 
sure that the students involved 
deserved the coverage, however 
late.
We found your final para
graph extremely ambiguous and 
had no idea who was being re
ferred to. Upon questioning you, 
we discovered it was the AFPF. 
To begin, the editor of this pa
per is not a personal enemy 
of this group, but rather sym
pathizes with some of their 
ideals, although not with some 
of their actions. However, does 
Miss Ryave feel that any of our 
articles directly apply to the 
AFPFif so she herself can
not have a very high opinion of 
this group because the Tartan 
intended no applications except 
to the peace movement in gen
eral. May we point out that we 
also knocked the military and 
finally, we felt that any organ
ization with the sense of humor 
to produce a Napalm dance 
would probably take the article 
in the intended, joking manner. 
We are sorry, Rosalyn that you 
did not.
Sincerely yours,
A proofreader

---------------------------------------------------

Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ R WtM W6,W6K R frCn l
The Tartans latest failures as columnists are two up-starting, 
young Margaret Morrison students who would prefer to remain 
anonymous, mainly because Dr. Morgan doesnt know they have 
escaped, and Daddy might stop their allowances. We of the Tartan 
are proud to introduce Clyde and Clod.
We are going to write our first column on the AFPF or some
thing equally as original, but we decided that we would confine 
ourselves to the consideration of really important issues such as 
Do blondes really have more fun? or Is Dr. Joyce Brothers antimotherhood? However, even these were oast aside when we were 
confronted with this startling moral conflict.
A Morewood flooir mommy friend of ours is having a birthday 
soon. This floor mommy, sweet, loveable, innocent, and wafting 
in the fresh breeze of youth (write Tartan, Box C, Campus Mail, 
for her phone number and particulars), received an extremely 
large package from her latest flame whom she had just exting
uished (her techniques will be included in Chief Youngs fire 
equipment assembly on Tuesday. By the way Chief Young prom
ises that the one unexpired fire extinguisher on the Tech campus 
will be removed from his office for the demonstration.).
Now this large package was wrapped extremely securely with 
heavy baling wire and upon shaking it, gurgled and thumped. 
Since she could not get the package open and distinguish the con
tents, in her usual calm, collected manner, she precisely sized up 
the situation, decided the package was a bomb and promptly doused 
her present in the nearest shower.
Much to her surprise, when the carton dissolved, she dis
covered a one-fifth bottle of Cutty Sark. This poor girl is utterly 
dismayedshall she turn the bottle in and let Mrs. Yaghajain drink 
it, or shall she hide it in her closet, knowing full well if her room
mate spots it, roommate will not be sober for about a week, or
shall she face her responsibilities and march to the ice machine,
return and down her tribute manfully.
As usual, Clyde and Clod are at a loss. Help us find a solution 
to this dilemma and fill out the following opinion poll and return 
it in to the properly marked recepticles on campus:
OPINION POLL
I. What would you do with the birthday present? Circle one.
1. Drink it you, fools.
2. Spill it down the sink?
3. Turn it in to the house guards.
4. Return it to the guy. (HA!)
5. Share it with Clyde and Clod. (\TA!)
II. Why didnt Clyde and Clod die with the dinosaurs?
WiA sa- sr7nbc Mrdm WAD 
,PWs EIeA-rdce1D 6ird7c
Pittsburgh, Pa., Dec. 1, 1967 
Leighton D. Westlake, Jr. and 
Terence J. Lunghofer, senior 
cadets in Carnegie-Mellon Univ
ersitys Reserve Officer Train
ing Corps (ROTC), have been 
named in the top 5% of Army 
ROTC Scholarship students 
scheduled to graduate between 
April 1, 1968, and March 31, 1969.
The selection makes the two 
cadets eligible to attend two 
years of graduate school at gov
ernment expense while on active 
duty, receiving full pay and al
lowances.
Cadets Lunghofer and West
lake, also selected for appoint
ment as second lieutenants in 
the Regular Army upon grad
uation, were among approximat
ely 550 ROTC Scholarship cadets 
around the country considered 
in the selections.
Cadet Lunghofer is majoring 
in chemistry. A Cadet Lt. Col
onel in the Universitys Cadet 
Brigade, he is a member of the
Counter-Guerilla Training Unit, 
Castle and Flag, and Delta Upsilon frternity.
Cadet Westlake, is majoring 
in civil engineering. Holding the 
rank of Cadet Lt. Colonel in the 
Cadet Briade, he is a member 
of the Counter-Guerilla Training 
Unit, Castle and Flag, and the 
Society of American Military 
Engineers.
Both C-MU cadets have been 
named Distinguished Military 
Students and are winners of twoyear Army ROTC scholarships.
CMU Jazz Band
The C MU Jazz Band wiU 
perform at an all-school as
sembly on Tuesday, Dec. 12, 
at 11:30 am in Skibo Ball
room. The band, led by Dick 
Sheuys, will entertain with 
an hour of collegiate big-band 
jazz at the best.
Selective Service 
Law Amended
There have been some recent 
changes in the guidelines con
cerning student deferment un
der the amended Selective Ser
vice law.
Undergraduate eligibility for 
deferment is essentially the 
same as announced in July,
1967. A student is eligible for a
II-S classification if his full-time 
academic status is certified to 
his draft board by the school on 
SSS Form 109, if he himself re
quests the deferment on SSS 
Form 104 and if he is consider
ed to be making satisfactory 
progress The only change in 
undergraduate deferment guide
lines is that instead of basing 
the eligibility on satisfactory 
performance last year as was 
announced at the beginning of 
this academic year, the satis
factory progress clause is to 
be interpreted as the completion 
of 25 percent of a four year pro
gram in one calendar year, the
12 months from October to Oc
tober, 50 percent in two years, 
etc. In the case of a five year 
program, the percentages will 
be 20 percent, 40 percent, etc.
Graduate Student Request 
of Deferment
The major change in eligibil
ity for graduate student defer
ment for this year is the re
quirement in all cases which 
come up for review after Octo 
ber 23, 1967, of a written re
quest for deferment from the 
student as well as the SSS Form 
103 which is required from the 
school certifying enrollment as 
a full-time student, what year 
graduate study was begun, 
what degree he is working 
toward and he expects to com
plete requirements forthat de
gree. If a graduate student re
quests this deferment he is 
waiving the right to a father
hood deferment at the time of 
his graduation just as the un
dergraduate.
There is still no definte de
cision from the National Secur
ity in conjunction with the na
tional Selective Service System 
as to what graduate will be eli
gible for deferment after this 
year. They hope to publish 
guidelines for fraduate student 
deferment shortly after Jan
uary, 1968.
El Arte Flamenco Expressed by 
inspired Guitarrista, de Platas
EyKvM6a
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized Dealer
EoE wMMf
PITTSBURGH
SUNBEAMSIMCA DEALER 
ZlUHZFFF
The origin of the word Flamenco is not clear. Some believe it
to be a Spanish derivative of the compound Arabic word felagmengn meaning peasant-in-flight. Others believe it comes from 
the Arabic fellah (husbandman) and miangu (tossing), thus, 
song of the country people, or folk song. However, the Andalusians 
themselves use the word to describe a wit or one who is indifferent 
to social standards, thus conveying an essential element of their 
life.
The music itself originated with the cante jondo or deep song 
of Andalusia. After the Christian monarchs successfully wrestled 
this southernmost part of Spain from Eastern dominion driving 
out the Moors and the Jews, the foreign element that remained 
went into hiding in the mountains, raiding towns and caravans in 
order to survive. The authorities relentlessly pursued these Gyp
sies, emprisioning many and executing the most notorious. Gante 
jondo, like the American Negro blues tells of the sufferings of 
these prisoners; it is the anguished cry of the impoverished.
During the 19th Century there sprang up throughout Spain 
cafes cantantes where oante jondo was featured. The perform
ances included singing, dancing and guitar playing of an informal 
and impoverished nature. In the 20th century, there can be found 
throughout Spain and the South of France descendants of this 
Gypsy breed that carry on this ancient art of Flamenco.
One such artist is Manitas de Plata (Fingers of Silver), a 
man whose genius was first known in this country in 1955 though 
merely by word of mouth and by a few tapes recorded by a vacationee at the Gypsy Festival of Les Saintes Maries de la Mer in 
Southern France. All attempts to recontact the artist failed until 
in 1961 the Connoisseur Society through a personal friend of 
Manitas, managed to gain his reluctant permission to record. He 
was even more reluctant to travel, so the Society laded its threefourths ton of Apex recording equipment and set out for the city 
of Arles. Two all-night recording sessions in an acoustically per
fect Medieval chapel in the town made possible the three record 
set available through the Classics Record Library.
Since 1961 Maintas de Plata has made personal appearances 
in this country and in November of this year played to an appre
ciative audience at the Carnegie Music Hall in Pittsburgh. He and 
his three accompanying guitarists and cantadores (singers) pre
sented a program of selections from most of the Flamenco forms. 
Aside from the technical perfection of Maintas de Plata which 
may never surpass the great Carlos Matoya, there is an emo
tional expression in this mans playing that tell sof his Gypsy 
heritage. A favorite song of mine is Huelva which Montoya 
plays often. I almost didnt recognize the piece when Manitas 
performed it, for his variation contained mare than an occasion
al difference in notes or speed. It almost spoke. It was a pow
erful expression overriding technicalities; if something physical 
got in the way, perhaps a string would be momentarily, but in 
the end the message was there.
Manitas knows no formal music, but has played the guitar 
since childhood, absorbing everything that it had to teach. This 
Inspired Guitarista with the hands of silver expresses his life 
through his true element el arte Flamenco.

---------------------------------------------------

frCn z R WtM W6,W6K R Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ
Original
PRIME ROAST BEEF
Served the Way You Like ItWedns ay,DDca
SERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMS! 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
fdAh1mnmb YAhnm B1cI*cc 
,A-n AT M7*Irbn7 YAhnm
Ten nationally prominent women will be at Chatham College 
Dec. 6 and 7 to discuss the role of the The Public/Private Woman.
Chaired by Margaret C. McNamara, Chatham trustee and wife 
of the Secretary of Defense, Robert S. McNamara, the two-day 
symposium will examine the problems and tensions faced by women 
who combine the roles of a wife and mother with that of a civic 
leader career woman.
Other participants include: Mary Virginia Bowden (Mrs. Gor
don T.), senior economic analyst, New York Life Insurance Com
pany, husband: director of management and research, American 
Telephone and Telegraph Co.; Dorothy K. Goldberg (Mrs. Arthur 
J.), artist, husband: U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations; Mary 
C. Hazard (Mrs. Leland), member of the Board of Education, City 
of Pittsburgh, husband: director-consultant, Pittsburgh Plate Glass 
Co.; Elsie H. Hillman (Mrs. Henry L.), chairman, Republican Exe
cutive Committee of Allegheny County, husband: chairman of the 
Board, Pittsburgh Coke and Chemical Co.; Lydia S. Katzenbach 
(Mrs. Nicholas B.), chairman, National Negro Students Fund, hus
band: Under Secretary of State; Esther Raushenbush (Mrs. Oarl), 
president, Sarah Lawrence College, husband: economist with the 
New York State Labor Department; Elspeth D. Rostow (Mrs. Walt 
W.), professr of American history, American University, husband: 
special assistant to the President; Nancy White (Mrs. Ralph D. 
Paine, Jr.), editor-in-chief, Harpers Bazaar, husband: head of Re
search and Development, Time, Inc., publisher, Architectural For
um, House and Home; and Ruth R. Whitney (Mrs. Daniel A..), edi
tor-in-chief, Glamour, husband: president, Whitney and Whitney, 
Inc. (advertising).
The symposium opens at 3:45 pm Dec. 6 with an informal cof
fee hour for the panel and students in the Chapel Lounge. The 
panel members will describe briefly their own current interests. 
Each woman will then join groups of students for dinner in the 
residence halls.
The evening program, which begins at 8 p.m. in the Chapel, will 
be a question and answer period. Each participant will prepare a 
five-minute answer to a question proposed in advance by the stu
dent planning committee. Following this, a panel of students will 
submit questions gathered from across the campus.
On Dec. 7 at 11 a.m., the panelist will separate to meet with 
groups of students interested in a specific subject such as art, pub
lications, professional careers or voluntary activities.
EDDY QUESTIONS EDUCATION
According to Dr. Edward D. Eddy, president of Chatham Col
lege, The need for the symposium arises from a concern among 
students over the effective use of a liberal education. If a woman 
is to be educated, why waste it on caring for a husband and raising 
a family?
In addition, many educated women appear perfectly content 
to deny their education, by failing to use it to help solve some of 
the problems of their community and nation.
For the symposium, the college has assembled a group of 
women who have not denied their education, who are concerned 
with husbands in vital business or government positions and are 
themselves active in community affairs, such as politics, educations 
and volunteer activities, or have careers of their own which are as 
demanding as those of their husbands.
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
Trottnow Insurance Agency
281-6619 - Phones - 281-9000
0riinal::.:V tAb BAC EeADDn
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dogs Sold
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To All Dorms from 9 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 
Minimum Order $2.00 
3901 FORBES AVE.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
Which Carnegie Tech man 
is a decision-maker 
at General Electric?
(They all are)
C. Willard Bryant graduated from 
Carnegie Tech in 1931, and joined 
General Electrics Advanced Engineer
ing Course. Today, as Manager of Ma
terials Service, his Corporate responsi
bilities include purchasing, traffic, in
ventory control and value studies.
Decision-maker? You bet! But 
every Carnegie Tech grad gets his 
share of responsibility at General 
Electric.
Take John Friedly, 60, Chemical 
Engineer at the Research and Develop
ment Center. He studies chemical proc
esses and control systems.
And engineer Norman Heubeck, 64, 
at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, 
performs detailed heat transfer and 
fluid flow studies on nuclear reactor 
components.
Responsibility and decision-making 
come early at General Electric. Were 
growing so fast and in so many chal
lenging areas that theres no waiting 
for the big opportunities.
How about you? Do you have what 
it takes to make important decisions 
for General Electric? If you think you 
do, talk to the General Electric recruiter 
when hes on campus. 910-38
GENERALELECTRIC
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ R WtM W6,W6K R frCn :
6Ir7nh1I 6TTr1dc sAhh1bbnn
CALENDAR
Copies of the proposed calen
dar submitted by the regular 
Calendar Committee were dis
tributed in advance to members 
of the Academic Affairs Com
mittee for consideration. Dr. 
Schatz reported that an Ad Hoc 
Calendar Committee (R. Kibbee, 
Chairman; R. Brandenburg, G. 
Brown, E. Gister, L. Gregg, F. 
Fannin, R. McCamy, E. Schatz, 
R. Slack, and two students) was 
appointed about three years ago 
and considered several other 
versions of a calendar.
Dr. Kibbee reported that the Ad 
Hoc Calendar Committee exam
ined different calendars that 
were being tried out around the 
country and then distributed to 
faculty and students a sescripcalendars and asked for comtion of five different kinds of 
ments. Although response was 
good, opinion was pretty well di
vided. Dr. Kibbee distributed 
copies of a calendar which had 
been approved by the Ad Hoc 
Committee and offered some ex
planatory remarks. This calen
dar was discussed at great 
length, followed by a motion 
that it be approved. However, 
the consensus of opinion was 
that the students and faculty 
should be informed that a new 
calendar is being considered and 
their comments should be re
quested. Dean Mullins moved 
that the motion to approve the 
calendar proposed by the Ad 
Hoc Calendar Committee be 
tabled until the next meeting, 
Dean Steinberg seconded the 
motion, and the motion passed.
Before the next meeting it 
be announced that the Academic 
Affairs Committee is consider
ing adopting the new calendar, 
copies of the proposed caendar 
will be distributed to members 
of the faculty and the Student 
Congress, it will be published 
in the Tartan, and comments by 
students and faculty will be in
vited. Since it is urgent that an 
academic calendar be approved, 
Dr. Schatz announced that the 
Academic Affairs Committee 
may have a special meeting on 
Dec. 4 to approve one of the 
suggested calendars.
PASS-FAIL
The Academic Affairs Com
mittee was the subject of a re
cent editorial in the Tartan sug
gesting that something be done 
about a Pass/Fail grading sys
tem. Dr. Schatz stated that the 
Academic Affairs Committee 
attempted last year to get the 
colleges interested in Pass/Fail. 
Dean Steinberg mentioned that 
the report on the new College 
of Humanities and Social Sci
ences include a proposal for a 
Pass/Fail freshman year. Rich 
Stafford, Chairman of the Aca
demic Advisory of the Student 
Congress, reported that a com
mittee is being farmed to con
sider Pass/Fail. It was suggest
ed that this should be a student-faculty endeavor, and the 
Deans agreed to nominate fa
culty members to serve on the
Pass/Fail committee. No action 
will be taken on this issue un
til the committee has been farm
ed and, after deliberation, sub
mits its recommendations.
Dr. Schatz announced that se
veral items which have been 
submitted to Dr. DeBenedetti, 
Chairman of the Agenda Com
mittee, will be discussed at the 
meeting on Nov. 27 and that 
the report of the committee 
working on the proposed Col
lege of Humanities and Social 
Sciences will be discussed on 
Dec. 11.
t o EELLL
(Continued from Page 1)
extent which should be immed
iately noticeable.
Thus, the proposal for the 
new college should be of great 
importance to all members of 
the C-MU community. Within 
it are implications for a new 
intellectual environment and 
wider educational opportunities 
for everyone.
Student Adivce Sought
Until this time, work on the 
new college has been limited to 
Dean Steinbergs committee. 
The committee hopes that C-MU 
students will now offer their 
advice on the intended program. 
Their report was not intended 
as the final word on what scope 
the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences will take. 
Through a dialogue between 
students and faculty, it is hoped 
that even better proposals may 
be forthcoming. The members 
of the committee encourage in
terested students to contact 
them, and they are willing to 
meet with groups of students 
to discuss the new college.
Copies of the report are on 
reserve in it the library, and 
all students are encouraged to 
read and voice ther reactions. 
Those interested in presenting 
their opinions should contact 
Dean Steinberg or any of the 
other committee members listed 
in the report. In addition, an 
independent student committee 
chairmaned by Linda PecaAtes 
welcomes suggestions for the 
new school.
The creation of the new col
lege provides a rare opportunity 
for students and faculty to work 
together in improving and ex
panding the educational oppor
tunities of C-(MU. The rewards 
of this undertaking will bene
fit all students, now and in the 
future.
A9x12 RUG&
With 9x12 r Larger 
*29 *39 49 ,69
jMt, 12x12, 1 lxl 5s, 12x1 It,
NWHm, tNt CrtdM, liyimy
Chases
the plact to buy rugs 
SHADYSIDE 
5432 WALNUT ST.
10 AM t 9 PAdSat. till 3 FM,
11*10
National Day of 
Draft Resistance
In connection with an estab
lished national day of draft re
sistance, a group of young Pitts
burghers who find their deepest 
moral and religious feelings out
raged by the Vietnam war will 
turn in their draft cards, thus 
making themselves liabl eto pro
secution.
Included are young men whose 
draft status is 1-A and others 
who will be giving up student 
deferments.
On the same day others will 
protest what they consider an 
immoral and illegal war by sign
ing statements refusing to serve 
in the Armed Forces if called up.
A number of these young men 
will appear at a press conference 
to present the statements of 
rationale which they are for
warding to Selective Service.
Appearing with them will be 
Pittsburghers who, while not 
eligible for the draft by reason 
of age or sex, feel they cannot 
stand idly by while younger 
people make this sacrifice. These 
members of the clergy, the aca
demic community, and other 
professions will apear in support 
of the resistors, pledging to aid 
aand abet their protest.
Those enunciating this suport also jeopardize their liberty, 
since the Selective Service Law 
state that anyone who know
ingly counsels, aids or abets 
(others) to refuse or evade regi
stration or service . . .shall be 
liable to imprisonment for not 
more than five years or a fine 
of $10,000 or both. Those stand
ing in solidarity with the re
sistors feel that their public sup
port is a legitimate exercise of 
the free speech guaranteed by 
the First Amendment.
Later in the day next Monday, 
a solmn service of support for 
those resisting the draft will 
take place at 8:00 pm at the 
United Oakland Ministry, Fifth 
ABellefied (TV cameras not per
mitted).
Among national figures who 
have recently endorsed draft re
sistance to protest American 
participation in the Vietnam 
war are the folowing: Yale chap
lain William Sloan Coffin, Jr., 
Conor Cruise OBrien, Bishop 
James A. Pike, and Authors 
Paul Goodman, Susan Sontag, 
Edgar Snow, and Anthony West.
For further information stu
dents should contact Prof. 
James Holland, MA. 1-3500, x 
7574 (weekdays), 441-2852 (eves, 
and weekends).
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS j 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGF
3711 FORBES AVENUE 
Phone: 683-2181 Student Discount on Moat Items
1. Whats a math major doing with 
The Complete Guide to the 
Pruning of the Breadfruit Tree?
It was a terrific buy.
2. Thats what you said about the 
spelunking outfit you bought 
last week.
Listenthat was 
marked down 50%.
3. And the condor eggs?
Could you refuse 2 dozen 
for the price of one?
4. No wonder youre always broke. 
But look at the buys I get!
5. If you want a good buy, why dont 
you look into Living Insurance from 
Equitable? At our age the cost is 
low, and you get solid protection 
now that continues to cover your family 
later when you get married. Plus 
a nice nest egg when you retire.
Ill take two!
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. 
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write: James L. Morice, Manager, College Employment.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F Equitable 1967
PHONE 
ST 1-5671
For '68 thebest shapes in Pqh. come from...M. W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's factory Dealer
VOLKSWAGEN SALES & SERVICE
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

frCn J R WtM W6,W6K R Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZi
ELIZABETH TAYLOR MARLON BRANDO
IN THE JOHN HUSIONRAY STARK PRODUCTIONREFLECTIONS IN A GOLDEN EYE
Brian Keith  Julie Harris.
WMstKGsPgP,5 faG/GEGP,0
C-MU Folksinger To 
Appear in Concert
i underground films m
THE NEW PITTSBURGH
FILM GROUP I
6K3M, G
Monday, December 11  7:30 and 9:30 p.rrt?
Kenneth Anger: "SCORPIO RISING"
"INAUGURATION OF THE PLEASURE DOMf: 
"EAUX D' ARTIFILE"
"KUSTOM KAR KOMANDOS" *
"Fireworks" (???) 
$1.50 Admissioin Membership Card 50<
U.O.M. CENTER, Corenr 5th and Bellefeld
FREE SCREENING, Wednesday, Dec. 13 at 8:00 p.m. only^ 
Mario Brando in "THE WILD ONE"
Free with mebership card, non-members $1.00
If you see only one underground film this year, 
see Palace of Pleasures.
Montreal Sta/r
For those who have never seen an underground firm, 
Palace of Pleasures is an excellent way to begin.
Chicago Sun-Times
Contains some of the most beautiful color footage 
ever filmed.
Vancouver Sun
A triumph of sexual artl
Chicago Tribune
Conjures up a unique sensual reverie.
Toronto Telegram
Constantly fascinating.
Cottrell, Pittsburgh Point
?
John Hofsess' dual-projection masterpiece,
THE PALACE OF PLEASURE
1st Prize, Vancouver Festival, 1967
.. and..
The major new work by one of the 
Underground's leading film artists
ED EMSHWILLER'S RELATIVITY
Acceptance Award, New York Film, Festival 
?
The most imaginative, brilliant, and shocking 
of underground films.
Film Quarterly
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6th, at 4:30, 7, 9, and 11 P.M.
SKIBO BALLROOM - CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY - 75?
Free Parking in SKIBO Lot 
An Experimental Film Group Presentation
BG,MsW !,Pa GWE 
,P6BEtPY MK363MaMKW
SPECIAL POPULAR PRICES 
SPECIAL SCHEDULED 
PERFORMANCES
.FbeHsMKWy,$ !P2 Ddncnmbc
m .MttW
/ sPgP, v$ BM gy2M sGKMa6EsPfM
Fantastic Voyage
Through the Looking Glass 8 L L
3rhnc fnAD-n f-rS
by Timothy Bay
South American folksinger 
Gualberto Salazar, currently a 
student in C-MUs Graduate 
School of Urban Design, will 
perform at Carnegie Lecture 
Hall this Friday evening at 8:30.
Gualberto, or Gual, is from 
Caracas, Venzuela. He received 
his B.F.A. in Architecture from 
CMU two years ago.
Friday nights concert will be 
Guals first major solo appear
ance in the United States. He 
has appeared professionally ma
ny times in Venezuela, and has 
also sung at several Ceilidh con
certs here in Pittsburgh. Guals 
repertoire ranges from ancient 
traditional folk tunes to modern, 
bossa nova type music. Local 
folk enthusiasts know him as a 
highly emotional charismatic 
performer.
For this concert he will be ac
companied by Lou Guilberti on 
the drums. Tickets for the even
ing, at $1.50 for students, are 
on sale at the Skibo information 
desk. Some will also be availabe at the door.
In Games, now playing at the Forum, the Director Curtis Har
rington has ingeniously used the various land colorful bric-a-brac 
and props in the settings as ominous actors in the frightening 
charade being performed. The plot is rather like a Hitchcock one 
in its unravelling intracaeies: basically it is the story of the hideous 
complications arising from a misfired practical joke and a dead 
body that refuses to remain inactive.
The perpetrators of the joke, a young art collector and his new 
wife live in a richly decorated New York Brownstone. The younig 
couple have the odd habit of playing practical jokes on themselves 
and their friendis; the more offbeat the stunt, the more pleasure 
they get from it. Their house, the focus of the action and the scene 
of their little games, is filled with an amazing assortment of art 
works: pre-Colombian statuary, along with pop and op painting 
and sculpture and Elizabethian bric-a-brac. This opulent and fore
boding landscape overshadows the action, and at times is an active 
agent in the strange drama that takes place.
Simone Signoret appears in the somewhat override role of 
mysterious stranger who reads fortunes, and identifies dead spir
its through a crystal ball; Katherine Ross is fine as the beautiful, 
wealthy victimized wife of the art dealer; James Cain is her bland 
amiable huisiband who ingeniously hides the corpse in a semirealistic plaster sculpturea very novel use of modern art. Curtis Har
rington, a former underground filmmaker of the fifties (when the 
term underground in this context really meant something) wrote ' 
the screenplay with producer George Edwards. A product of the 
assembly line at Universal, Games has a visual interest and an 
unsettling, adroitly handled, atmosphere of terror of the bizarre*^ 
that puts it a drawer above the conventional thriller/horror film 
of these impoverished times.
Even the streaks of hamminess in the film, I found enjoyable 
although I feel that cliche devices like wind blowing mysteriously 
through a curtain in a scene of terror, should be gracefully retired 
from films.
Our Mothers House is a horror story too, but with the depth 
and power of an allegory. It is simply a tale of innocence and evil, 
somewhat in the order of Turn of the Screw or Lord of the Flies. 
Unlike Lord of the Flies, however, which in dnemtic form I found 
somewhat pretentious and sterile, Our Mothers House has a strong 'U 
emotional involvement and a quality of fragile beauty. The outline 
of the story is simple and fascinating: In a decaying Victorian house 
in England, mother lies ill in her bed while her seven children 
gather around her for the evening ritual of Mother Time. This 
ritual is interrupted, when the film opens with the death of Mother 
Hook.
The children, however, who revered their stem puritanical 
mother, do not tell the outside world of her death. Like conspirators, 
they bury the body secretly in the garden and continue the routine 
of thedr lives, as if nothing happened. In place of their mother, one 
of the older girls acts as a medium, relaying the wishes and 
thoughts from her spirit. This arrangement is eventually broken 
in the course of the movie. Dirk Bogarde, the father who unexpect
edly appears after a long absence, is the catalyst for this disrup
tion. This Bogarde character seems to represent the exact opposite 
of his wife, however, by the end of the film, with disturbing am
biguity, one is left wondering as to the relative morality of either 
party. Bogarde gives a typically polished performance as the easy01
TYPING
Call after 5 p.m. 
421-9889
Liberal art* graduates wanted port 
time to teach English oriented 
course. Intelligence, personality, re-, 
sponsibiilty more important than ex
perience. Car necessary. Available 
after 1:30 p.m. Contact Mr. Padbros. 
471-5654.
PHONE: 681-6100
ec<*
^c/W r
*/></8
WILL GIVE EVERY STUDENT 
VISITING OUR SHOP A
!,MM /GE6 s6,B
and guide
The magic card that gives you 10 per cent discount (year round) 
at Paraphernaliathe shop with groovy fashions, accessories 
and gifts. PLUS lots of other bargains including discounts on 
gas, pizza, mens shops, Webster Hall, Howard Johnson, Pitts
burgh Playhouse, etc.
Paraphernalia
114 MEYRAN AVE-OAKLAND
Around the Corner from the Strantf Theater
Open Daily 10 to 9 P^M.

---------------------------------------------------

Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ R WtM W6,W6K R frCn Z
Pete Seeger in 
Concert - Dec. 15
The best-known folksinger in 
the world and a legend in his 
time  Pete Seeger will bring 
his own joyous magic to Car
negie Music Hall Wednesday, 
December 15 at 8:30 p.m., in a 
concert sponsored by Carnegie 
Ceilidh and the Pittsburgh Folk
lore Society.
His whole world is people 
and children and songs and a 
freedom which is infectiously 
rea'l, someone once wrote of 
Seeger. Such men do not come 
to us every day. Pete Seeger 
has been with us for many a 
day. He anticipatedand in a 
very real sense foundedAmer
icas folk-song revival, when he 
helped form The Weavers in 
1948. He sang of oivil rights 
long before the Supreme Court 
acted in 1954 and Martin Luth
er King led the Birmingham bus 
boycott in 1955. He was writing 
songs that are now a part of 
everybodys folk heritage, long 
before Bob Dylan could write 
at all. And he has emerged-with 
more dignity than everfrom 
a decade of attacks by liatterday and present-day McCarthyites, who have sought to inval
idate his music and his spirit 
by slinging political labels.
Seegers trademark in concert 
is audience participation  his 
ability to move an audience 
to enthusiastic involvement to 
singing the choruses, to join
ing in the folk process. A friend 
of Seegers said recently: . .
and if ever you see a tall, thin 
guy with his Adams apple stick
ing out, you can rest assured 
that its Pete Seeger, just amb
ling along to another session 
of singing to the people of the 
world. . .
Seeger has sung to the peo
ple of the worldin more than 
30 countriesand has recorded 
over 60 LPs for various labels. 
Liner notes for a recent LP 
were written by Supreme Court 
Justice William O. Douglas.
rsanned from network tele
vision for more than 17 years, 
Seeger recently appeared (Sept. 
10) on the Smothers Brothers 
Comedy Hour at the invitation 
of Dick and Tommy Smothers 
and even then, CBS found it 
necessary to edit out of the pro
gram tape a song called The 
Big Muddya song which sug
gests that President Lyndon 
Johnson has led the nation into 
i quagmire in Vietnam.
Born in 1919, Jete Seeger turn
ed seriously to folk music in 
1935, when he heard and fell in 
love with the instrumemt that 
has since become his trademark 
 the five-string banjo. Along 
with Woody Guthrie, Leadbehy, 
Alan Lomax, Josh White and 
Burl Ives, Seeger helped pave 
the way for the tremendous re
vival of interest in folklore mu
sic in America. Said the Miami 
Herald: Pete Seeger helped
bring back somthing the coun
try had lost: its own music.
ANT HONE REVIEW
A Moderately Funny Thing Happened 
On The Way To The Forum
by Tony Lawrence
Most of what is wrong with A Funny Thing Happened on the
Way to the Forum is whan is wrong with the show itself. The lines, 
by this time, have become familiar and hackneyed; the score is 
almost completely undistinguished. Keeping these things in mind, 
the current production being offered in the Skibo Ballroom is a 
lot of fun for many people but, alas, misses many a professional 
mark. The show needs funny people to deliver the sometimes funny 
lines. There are few in this production. The plot is barely worth 
going into but might best be described as a Roman saucy romp.
Director Martin Platt has come up with some occasionally 
imaginative staging. His handling of the large cast on the small 
acting area, especially for a musical, is admirable. The pace is in
consistent and is in dire need of tightening. This show demands 
a slam bang type of activity and when it lags, it falls down with 
its own weight. His casting, for the most part was good. Bob Miller 
as Pseudolus was fine. His excellent timing and comic sense made 
his moments easily the best in the production. Also contributing 
in good form were James Canada, Lawrence Lippert and Aladar 
Marberger as the Proteans. Nick Stannard did very well as Miles 
Floriosos. His performance was an example of how to play some
thing broad without being absurd. Robin Grossman and Dick Davies 
would do well to take note. They simply were not as funny as they 
could or should have been. Martha Deering and Tom Rolling were 
adequate in their respective parts as the young lovers Philia and 
Hero. Others in the cast include John-Michael Tebelak, Terry Lis
ter, Susan Bartels, Judith Benjamin, Sherry Snider, Gayle Steinberger and Evan Finkelstein.
One major drawback was the lack of truly good voices. Granted 
the score is difficult (and not very melodic), but after all this! is 
a musical and if singers cannot be found perhaps another show 
should be selected. Often the songs could not be understood or 
heard. In this area the effort was appreciated more than the ac
complishment.
The effective set was by James M. Stauffer and Martha Deerings costumes were servicable. Lighting was designed by Joel 
Polansky. Don Maloney did as well as he possibly could with an 
inexcusably ouit of tune piano. Dan Early assisted him most ably 
on percussion.
The production will give one more performance this coming 
Sunday, Dec. 10, at 8 pm in the Ballroom in Skibo.
Y6gg$E
Pseudolus (Bib Miller) entranced by Sherry Sinder.
Photo by Bill Pence
Seeger has appeared in Pitts
burgh before under the auspices 
of Carnegie Ceilidh  most re
cent in 1965, when reviewers 
descr ibed a sell-out concert as 
magnificent.
Tickets for the December 15 
concert- at $2.50 and $3.50  
can be obtained at the Skibo 
Information Desk, between 1-5 
p.m. weekdays; and at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh Student 
Union.
Get high with 
a little help from 
your friends.
YOU HAVE A FRIEND AT
THE ELECTRIC CKUB*
EW GyaE fysb pdib-K O4KB i m x/GE s6EW Ybga- -b N
KPWM& ,nDdncnmb ben M-nIbd1I s1dI*c Am 
SA*d IrhD*c En-- b1IXnbc rm7 rddrmCn 
Dd19rbn Drdb1ncL Mrdm IAhh1cc1Amc sr--& 
N.U.Q ZZZHzzJJO Ad id1bn& M7 f-*h rb ben 
ruA9n r77dnccL
9"05 sATTnn 1m bXn We1mTI Wrm00
CAMPUS-FAVORED .. . 
? MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLRSHEIM
All
Popular
Prices!
? WOMEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
 WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes venue (Across from Strand Theatre)
THE NEW PITTSBURGH 
FILM GROUPW,GfE WP M,PWGs6& .
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6
7:30 and 9'30 P.M.
George KUCHAR: "CORRUPTION OF THE DAMNED" 
Ron RICE: "CHUMLUM"
Andrew NOREN: "A CHANGE OF HEART' 
(Straight from the San Francisco P.D.)
U. O. M. CENTER
CORNER OF FIFTH AND BELLEFIELD
admission $1.00 membership card 50c
CHARLIE CHAPLIN
zn
THE KID
One of his rarely-shown 
full length feature films
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13
4:30, 7, 9, 11 p.m.
SKIBO BALLROOM, Carnegie-Mellon University
75 *

---------------------------------------------------

Between Classes or at Study Breakt
-SCOTTY'S-OPEN TO SERVE YOV 24 HOURS A DAY
lkU' !P,vME 6/MKyM
L L L rm7 L L L
,PyWM 'O KP,Wt P! MWK6 ZkU' fMKK 6/MKyM
yonandGod
(v*bO? SA* crSO
(G49n mn9nd Tn-b 3A74c 
DAindL G iAm7nd 1T tn 
dnr--S n)1cbc TAd hn?
Yn be1mX be1c -nIb*dn 
h1Ceb rmcind cAhn AT 
SA*d *ncb1Amc rm7 
cb1d SA*d be1mX1mC 
ruA*b 3A7L
tnrd f6yg6L 
M,GspEPKO sLELvLO rm 
n)Dnd1nmIn7 bnrIend 
rm7 DdrIb1b1Amnd AT 
sed1cb1rm EI1nmIn 
enr-1mCL
aAm7r05O </ILUU 
Yenddnbb ,AAh
*1TI EX1uA
EDAmcAdn7 by ben C MU
st,GEWG6K
EsGMKsM
P,36KG6WGPK
Wedns ay ,eDDcmb
Mod Eye Wear
Frame and Lens Replacement 
Prescription Filled 
Contact Lens Center 
STUDENT RATESRoom 505 
Medical Arts Bldg. 
3700 Fifth Avenue
For creativity in our cities 
and sanity in Viet Nam 
Join citizens for
pMKKMB$ 4J'
Write
JOHN DEFAZIO
1258 Commercial Avenue 
Pittsburgh 
371-1926
Soup n9 Sandwich Shoppe, *3nc.
Monday thru Saturday  6 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Sunday  10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
DAILY SPECIAL - 6 a.m. - 11 a.m.
2 STRIPS BACON - 2 EGGS - 2 PIECES OF TOAST 
HOMEFRIES - COFFEE - 55c
ALL TYPES OF SANDWICHES AND SOUP
To do it, you should know as much as possible about 
the 150 new plant units Du Pont has built since 
the end of World War II. Youd then choose from one of 
the many lively fields of interest at Du Pont: 
design, construction, production, marketing, research 
and process improvement (to name just a few).
Involvement starts the day you join. There is no 
training period. You go into responsible work right away. 
Your professional development is stimulated by 
real problems and by opportunities to continue your 
academic studies under a tuition refund program.
You work in small groups where individual 
contributions are quickly noted and appreciated.
The work is significant, and of benefit to society. 
Youre part of the most exciting technical environment 
available today and tomorrow, and facilities and 
associates are the best.
How could you fit in? Why not sign up for a chat with 
a Du Pont interviewer and find out? The coupon will 
also bring you more information about us.
Finally, what is Project X?
We dont know yet. Could be were 
waiting for you to tell us.
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.)
Nemours Building 2500-2 
Wilmington, Delaware 19898
Please-send me the Du Pont Magazine along with 
the other magazines I have checked below.
D Chemical Engineers at Du Pont 
O Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont
? Engineers at Du Pont
? Du Pont and the College Graduate
Name____________________________________________________
Class--------------------------Major__HBnCdnn n)DnIbn7L
College____
My address. 
City______wEbrbn^.Zip sA7nO
frCn ' R WtM W6,W6K R Yn7nmc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ
Tickets for THE ADDING 
MACHINE by Elmer Rice, 
the next Drama Department 
production, will be given out 
Monday, December 11, at the 
Drama Department Office, at 
3:30 p.m. The play will run 
for nine evenings, Dec. 16, 18 
& 19, and Jan. 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 
& 10.
You are the only person who can answer 
that question.
PRESENTED BY
THE PITTSBURGH FOLKLORE SOCIETY 
& <ARNE<JIE<EILIDH 8tlOPM
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL,OAKLAND 
TICKET OF ADMISSION 200
Tickets fit skibo desk, v.oo to 5. 00 pm
GW5E WtM ,63M
REGULAR
MODEL
6K$ j ql 3 LINE TEXT dm
Wen T1mncb GKBMEW,ysWGvgM aMW6g 
fPspMW ,yvvM, EW6afL l/z" * 2". Send check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax.
fdAhDb ce1DhnmbL Erb1cTrIb1Am 3*rdrmbnn7 
THE MOPP CO.
fL FL vA) U'J.l gnmA) E*rdn Ebrb1Am 
6Wg6KW6O 36LO lFl.J

---------------------------------------------------

Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund JO UkJZ R WtM W6,W6K R frCn k
Despite their impressive opener against W&J last Saturday, 
the Carnegie-Mellon Tartans will be hard pressed to match the
12-11 record compiled by last years team. The squiad lost three 
Standouts in Jeff Kalin, Don Kiefer, and Ray Burdette through 
graduation. Burdette was the teams most aggressive performer 
and its best defensive player. Kiefer and Kalin provided much 
of the rebounding while the three combined to average over 35 
points per game, more than half of the Tartan team output.
Moe Fassingers biggest worry will be rebounding and scar
ing unless one of this years new starters develops rapidly. With 
Mark Lang at 65 and Barry Hummel at 62 starting at the inside 
positions, the Tartans definitely lack height. Lang was the lead
ing rebounder last year and should do even better this season, but 
Hummel will often be faced with the problem of boarding against 
a man at least four inches taller than he is. These two men will 
not have the benefit of a jumping jack like Kiefer at an outside 
position to give them help either. Bill Weborg, 66, and Bob 
Grazzi, 64, are two tall reserves whose height underneath can 
certainly help the team in a crucial area.
Neil Houser, Leigh DeHuff, and John Meister will start in 
the outside positions this season. Houser started much of last 
year and with his hustle wild be the sparkplug of the team. Meis
ter and DeHuff saw a lot of action with DeHuff starting several 
times near the end of last season. At least one of these players 
must develop into an outside threat or the Tartans will have a 
hard time against a tight zone such as the ones employed by Penn 
State and Westminster. Snow Mitchell and Dave Stobbe, a con
verted forward, will be the two frontline reserves. Stobbe is a strong 
threat to score from the outside.
Mark Lang led the team in scoring last season with 349 points 
for the 15.2 average. He will /be the clubs (main threat this season, 
especially around the key where he possesses a good jump shot. 
The other starters are still untested as they saw action but ior 
scoring purposes. In order to score, the Tartans must be able to 
get the ball in play. Against W&J press last Saturday, the in
bounds play was reminiscent of Hubka to Bell with Hummel cut
ting for the goal, er basket, and Meister throwing long passes in 
an effort to catch opponents by surprise. Tech did much better 
using short passes and working the ball upcourt but this latter 
method was not used enough.
Defensively, the Tartans will rely almost exclusively on a mantoman defense. This presents problems against a team with several 
tall players, since Carnegie lacks height. Offensively, against the 
iman4o-man defense, the team likes to set up a two-on-two sit
uation in hopes of getting the guard free by passing into an inside 
mlan and cutting. If he cant get free, ihe then tries to hit one of the 
other players cutting across the middle. Against a zone the Tar
tans establish a two-one-two, passing around a triangle composed 
of the pivot man, an outside man, and an inside man in an effort 
to catch the opponent overshifted.
Plagued by inexperience and a lack of height and facing im
proved opponents, the Tartans may be in for a long season. With 
Neil Houser being the only senior, Moe Fassingeir may rely on 
this season as a rebuilding year. Next year, if the tall reserves 
come around, the Tartans could have a very good record but thats 
next year, unfortunately.
g1bbnd 7Ancm4b bedAi 1bcn-T rirS -1bbnd 7Ancm4b 
*cb erDDnmL fnAD-n Ir*cn 1bRrm7 Am-S DnAD-n 
Irm Ddn9nmb 1bL (fnAD-n55 hnrmc SA*L
Keep America Beautiful.
From The Sideline
A Good Year For Basketball?
CMU WHIPS W&J, :ZHz. 
IN SEASON OPENER
Hummel, Lang Lead 
Tartan Scoring
The C-MU basketball team 
scored eight consecutive points 
in the final 2Vz minutes of play 
to top the W&J five 57-52. Bar
ry Hummel, with 15 points, and 
Mark Lang, with 13 points, led 
the Tartans in scoring.
Coach Moe Fassinger and his 
assistant Jim Brown have done 
a commendable job informing 
a cohesive unit after losing last 
years standouts, Jeff Kalin, Ray 
Burdett and Don Keefer, who 
graduated.
Lang scored the initial basket 
of the game on a 12 foot jump 
shot and the Tartans rolled to 
an early 8-2 lead. But the Pres
idents came back strong to tie 
the score at 19 with seven min
utes left in the half and they 
went ahead to take a 29-23 half 
time lead. The inexperience of 
our team was illustrated at times 
when they were unable to get 
the ball inbounds when pressed 
by W&J. Also some mixups oc
curred in the play calling. How
ever, the team exhibited a tight 
defense and lots of hustle al
though they were playing a tal
ler W&J squad.
The second half began propit
iously for C-MU when Lang tap
ped the jump ball to Hummel 
who passed to DeHuff. DeHuff 
hit Meister cutting down the 
left lane who scored to close the 
deficit to four points. W&J was 
breaking downcourt, two on one, 
for a sure two-pointer when DeHuff cleverly stopped short to 
draw a charging foul on W&Js 
Houser. When Houser vehement
ly argued with the ref, a techni
cal foul was called which Lang 
made. With the Tartans trailing 
by a single point, after 2xh, min
utes of the second half had 
elapsed, Barry Hummel spectac
ularly repented for some of his 
early miscues. After tossing in 
a free throw to knot the score, 
Hummell accounted for ten of 
the next 12 C-MU points with 
three field goals aand four foul 
shots.
Thus, at the half-way point 
of the second half, C-MU held 
a 41-38 lead over the Presidents. 
Led by forward Tom Anderson 
and center Ken Kirby, W&J 
charged back to take a 50-49 
lead. At this crucial point with 
only two minutes left on the 
clock, C-MU seemed to have a 
chance to forge ahead when 
Hummel blocked a jump shot 
and Lang picked up the loose 
ball. But the referee whistled a 
foul on Hummel, which met the 
strong disaproval of the Tartan 
fans and Coach Fassinger. The 
conversion of the free throws 
gave W&J a three point lead.
At this juncture, the C-MU 
fans began the deafening cheer 
Lets Go Tech and their team 
quickly responded. Lang hit an 
eight foot bank shot to cut the 
margin to one point. When W&J
guard Houser missed a lay-up, 
Meister pulled down the re
bound and was immediately 
tackled by three W&J players. 
He scored on the first free throw 
to tie the score. Meisters sec
ond shot caromed off the back 
of the rim but the Tartans grab
bed the rebound to retain pos
session. The C-MU took the lead 
permanently when Meister tap
ped in a missed C-MU shot and 
hit another foul shot with 20 
seconds remaining. The Presi
dents still couldnt get on the 
scoreboard and DeHuff wrapped 
up the victory with two free 
throws to make the final score 
57-52.
Throughout the game, Coach 
Fassinger was able to insert 
Dave Stobbe, Snow Mitchell and 
Bill Weborg into the lineup and 
they proved to be capable re
placements while starters were 
given a breather. Houser and DeHuff did excellent jobs of set
ting up the plays and Houser 
got into foul trouble in the sec
ond half, Mitchell continued the 
tight defensive work. Although 
Mark Lang only scored three 
points in the second half, his 
excellent work off the boards 
and the numerous shots he 
blocked were major contribu
tions to C-MUs second half 
come back. By seasons end, it 
is likely that Lang will lead the 
Tartans in scoring as well as re
bounding.
CIT split the two games with 
W&J last season and now has 
a 36-52 overall record against 
the Presidents. W&J got strong 
games from Anderson, Evans 
and Orwig and displayed an ag
gressive freshman reserve
named Coleman Hughley. They 
will face C-MU again on their 
home court for the final game 
of the season on March 2. The 
next basketball game is Tues
day at Grove City, against a 
team which the Tartans beat
102-59 last season after a close 
68-64 victory. The team returns 
home Saturday night to meet 
Waynesburg, a team which lost 
both games to C-MU last year. 
Scoring
FG FT Pts.
N. Houser 10-0 2
DeHuff 3 2 2 8
Mitchell 1 2-3 4
Lang 6 1-2 13
Hummel 4 7-8 15
Meister 3 4-6 10
Stobbe 2 0-0 4
Weborg 0 1-2 1
20 17-23 57
W&J
FGFTPts.
Anderson42-310
Evans23-57
J. Houser22-56
Kirby40-18
Orwig52-312
Hughley23-47
Nipps02-22
Ashbaugh00-10
1914-2452
IM REVIEW
W L T
3 0 0
2 10
1 2 0
0 3 0
BTP A
GSIA 
TDP A
SN B
Bays League
Grad Nads 3 0 0
SAE 111
ATO 12 0
BTP B 0 2 1
Chiefs League
SN A 4 0 0
EJs A 3 10
DU 13 0
Z-Team 13 0
PKA Gold 13 0
Stars League
BSR 4 0 0
DTD 2 11
PKA Garnet 12 1
EJs B 13 0
PKT A 0 2 2
In the quarter-finals Beta de
feated the Delts, 3-1; Sigma Nu 
downed SAE; the Grad Nads 
bowed to the EJs A, 2-1; and 
Beta Sig broke a 2-2 tie in a 
sudden-death overtime to defeat 
GSIA. Beta defeated Sigma Nu, 
4-3, in the semi-finals, and the 
EJs downed BSR, 4-3. This 
week, weather permitting, Beta 
will meet the EJs for the cham
pionship.
VOLLEYBALL 
Set League
WL
GSIA40
BTP A40
EJ B32
TDP B23
SN A14
SAE CT05
Serve League
SAE A40
PKT A41
TDP31
BTP B23
Old Men14
Cult05
Spike League
ATO41
EJ A30
TX22
Finches21
(Con A14
PKT B04
Pass League
SAE B51
Algorithms41
PKA32
DTD32
SN B22
Do-Dahs1I
DU B06
(Continued on f1
rm1InO M71bAd 
dL ciAuA7rO 6ccAIL M7L
TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

frCn UF WtM W6,W6K R Yn7mnc7rSO BnInhund UkJZ
IN AND 
AROUNDPittsburgh
kk
MUSIC
OPERA...............
Carmen will be presented by the Pittsburgh Opera at Syria 
Mosque on Dec. 7 and 9. Curtain time will be 8:15 pm. Student 
ticket for the opera are now on sale in the Deans office, College of 
fine Arts for $2.00 each. Tickets are in the second balcony, C right
and C left sections.
C-MU CHAMBER ORCHESTRA...............
Mendelsshons Hebrides Overture; Stravinskys Suite No. 1; 
Janet Halt, flute soloist in Bachs Suite No. 2 in B Minor; Beethov
ens Symphony No. 1 in C Major; and Dello Joios New York Pro
files; Rudolph Fellner, conductor, will be the program on Satur
day, Dec. 9, Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 pm. Admission free.
CAROL FESTIVAL...............
Carnegie Institute: United We Sing Christmas Carol Festival 
at Carnegie Music Hall on Sunday, Dec. 10, 2:30 to 4:30 pm.
CHRISTMAS CAROLS...............
University of Pittsburgh: Heinz Chapel Choir will sing music 
for the Christmas season with Paul Anderson, conductor, and Rob
ert Lord, organist, on Sunday, Dec. 10, Heinz Chapel, 3 pm.
MESSIAH...............
Pittsburgh Symphony: Handels Messiah with Jeanette Walters, 
soprano; Helen Vanni, mezzo; John Craig, tenor; John McCurdurdy, 
bass of the Mendelssohn Choir; and Henry Mazer, conducting, at 
the Civic Arena, Wednesday, Dec. 13, 8 pm.
INDIAN FOLK SINGER...............
Music Guild of Pittsburgh: Buffy Sainte-Marie, Gree Indian 
folksinger, Friday, Dec. S, 8:30 pm, Syria Mosque.
FOLK-SINGER - GUITARIST...............
Gualberto Salazar, Latin American folk singer-guitarist. Tra
ditional and popular music of Latin American countries from Ar
gentina to Cuba, showing differences in rhythms. Friday, Dec. 8, 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, 8:30 pm.
ORGAN RECITAL, STRING ORCHESTRA .....
St. Pauls Cathedral: Karel Paukert from Czechoslovakia. Mo
zart, Bach, Brixi, Wykes and Ehen on Friday, Dec. 8. Free to the
public.
VIOLINISTS...............
Pinchias Zukerman, 19-year-old Israeli violinist, winner of the
1967 International Leventritt Competition, makes his Pittsburgh 
debut this Wednesday, Dec. 6, at the YM and YWHA Musical So
ciety series in the Morris Kaufmann Memorial Auditorium on
Bellefield Ave.
CHORAL PROGRAM...............
University of Pittsburgh: Mens Glee Club, Womens Choral, 
and the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony will perform a program to 
include: Pandall Thompsons Testament of Freedom; Mussorgskys 
Cornafcion Scene, from Boris Godounov; Halleujah Chorus, from 
Handels Messiah; excerpts from Brittens Ceremony of Carols; La 
Faures Prelude to Pelleas and Melisande; second movement from 
Hansons Nordu Symphony. Carnegie Music Hall, Friday, Dec. 8, 
at 8:15 pm. Free to the public.
LECTURE
Its a Bird, Its a Plane, What Is It? is the topic of Stanton T. 
Friedmans final lecture at the YM and WHA Thursday, Dec. 14,
at 8:15 pm.
Stop the World, I Want to Get Off is the topic of Stanton T. 
Friedman, nuclear physicist and authority on the mystierism of 
the universe, will discuss on Thursday, Dec. 7, 8:15 pm, at the YM 
and WHA on Bellefield Ave.
Are We All Part of a Scheme and What Can We Know About
It: The Unity of Science is the topic of the final lecture of Dr. Janos
A. Schossberger, Israeli psychoanalyst, Tuesday, Dec. 12, 8:15 pm, 
at the YM and YWHA or. Bellefield Ave., between Fifth and Forbes.
CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION...............
Norman Dorsen, professor of law, New York University School 
of La,w, and director, Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Program, 
NYU School of Law, will be the speaker at the public meeting fol
lowing the Annual Bill of Rights Day Dinner meeting of the Amer
ican Civil Liberties Union, Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, at Skibo 
Ballroom, Carnegie-Mellon University, on Monday evening, Dec. 11. 
Dinner is at 7 pm, costing $5.50 per person. While the dinner is 
primarily for members of ACLU, all are welcome who desire to at
tend. Tickts may be obtained by writing the chapter office on 
Shady Ave.
Professor Dorsens address is open to the public at no charge 
at 8:30 pm. There will be seating for persons who arrive at that
time.
Professor Dorsen is former law clerk to Circuit Judge Calvert 
Magruder, Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for 
the First Circuit, and former law clerk to Justice John Marshall 
of the United States Supreme Court.
DRAMA
PIRANDELLO...............
The Chatham College Drama Department will present the Pir
andello drama Right You Are ... If You Think You Are Dec. 14-16. 
The three act play begins at 8:15 pan in the Chapel and is open 
free to the public.
Chaplins The Kid 
Coming Dec. IB
Charlie Chaplins first major 
full-length fim, The Kid, will be 
given its first Pittsburgh screen
ing in over 15 years this Wednes
day, Dec. 13, in the Skibo Ball
room at C-MU. Perhaps the most 
delightful of all Chaplin fea
tures, The Kid features Charlie 
the Tramp in one of his most 
moving, and comic portrayals.
Chaplins co-star in this film, 
Jackie Coogan, became an over
night international celebrity. 
Playing the little street urchin 
sheltered and cared for by Char
lie the Tram, Coogan became 
the child actor of the decade, and 
millions wept Coast to Coast as 
the unfeeling arm of the Law 
plucked the ragged urchin away 
from the kindly Tramp.
The Kid is the third in a ret
rospective showing of the com
plete feature films of Charlie 
Chaplin, presented by the Car
negie-Mellon Experimental Film 
Group. Showings will be held in 
Skibo Ballroom at 4:30, 7:00, 
9:00, and 11:00. Tickets are 
priced at 75c. Because of the 
limited seating, it is advised that 
those who wish to be sure of se
curing a ticket arrive at least 
ten minutes before showtime.
Metropolitan Future 
From Creative Angle
A YMCA student-young adult 
Conference is being planned on 
The Creative Angle for a Metro
politan Future. The purpose of 
Conference is to provide young 
men and women an opportunity 
to respond to the demands for 
a free and just social order 
through which all persons are 
urged to develop new and crea
tive life styles. This Conference 
will enable students and re
source guides to become involved 
in the Art of Creation through 
self-learning methods and design 
processes.
The heart of the Conference 
consists of five Vision Centers. 
These centers will focus on: 
Health, Welfare and Recreation; 
Education; Political Jurisdiction; 
Transportation, and Housing. 
Each Center will be involved in 
a process of programming or 
problem seeking, designing or 
creating and testing, or seeking 
implications across discipline 
lines. Further, each Center will 
have constant access to all Con
ference resource personnel, both 
in the Centers and in six pro
duction groups of each Center.
The Conference will be held 
in Washington, D.C., from De
cember 28 to January 1, 1968. 
If you are interested in attend
ing the Conference and would 
like more information, contact 
Tom Huff at the Y office, 57 
Skibo. The registration deadline 
is December 15, 1967.
IM Review ...
(Continued from Page 9) 
Tennis-Final League Standings
Plaid League
EJ B50
DU41
BTP22
SN A02
ATO03
PKT03
Tartan League
EJ Frosh40
DTD41
GSIA33
EJ A02
SAE02
SN B03
ASSEMBLY
JAZZ BAND...............
The C-MU Concert Jazz Band will perform at an all school 
assembly on Tuesday, Dec. 12, at 11:30 am in the Skibo Ballroom. 
The band, led by Dick Shoup, will entertain will an hour of col
legiate big-band jazz at its best.
LECTURES - MEETINGS
HUMAN RACE...............
Dr. Bertram Kraus, professor of anatomy at Pitt and author 
of The Basis of Human Evolution will speak on Human Race from 
an Evolutionary Point of View on Thursday, Dec. 7, at 4 pml in 
Room 319 at Margaret Morrison.
METALS CLUB ...............
The Metals Club will meet Thursday, Dec. 7, at 7:30 pm at Pi 
Kappa Alpha, 5004 Morewood Place. William Dennis, assistant di
rector of research at Jones and Laughlin Steel, will speak on the 
topic Where Is the Steel Industry Going? All interested students 
and faculty members are invited to the meeting.
ASTRONOMY CLUB...............
The Astronomy Club of Carnegie-Mellon: University, which 
holds its business meetings every Wednesday evening at 7:30 pm 
in Room 33, Skibo, has planned an observing session at Buhl Plane
tariums reflecting telescope on Dec. 6. All members and perspective 
members interested should be at Room 33 by 7:30 pm. On Dec. 13, 
the club will travel to Allegheny Observatory for a special guided 
tour.
Also on the immediate agenda is the election of officers for
1968 and adoption of a Constitution. Any members of the CarnegieMellon Community interested in joining observing sessions on Sun
day evenings at 6 in Room 33 or call Gary Straus at 682-8649.
ATHLETIC BOARD...............
The Athletic Board meeting has been scheduled for Saturday, 
Dec 9, in the Presidents Dining Room, Skibo, at 12 noon.
UNION COMMITTEE...............
There will be a meeting of the Student Government Union Com
mittee Thursday at 4:45 pm in Room 33, Skibo. Anyone with ques
tions, comments or criticisms about Skibo facilities is urged to at
tend at that time.
C-MU DAMES...............
C-MU Dames will hold their monthly meeting on Tuesday, Dec.
12, in the Highlander Room, Skibo. Mrs. Betty Jean Highland will 
speak on Do It Yourself Holiday Decorations. All members are 
asked to bring- one inexpensive gift which will be donated to the 
children at Juvenile Court.
Volummmmmmmmmmmmmmm
Harold Burkhart, eastern director of Inter-Varsity Christian 
Fellowship, will speak at the Western Pennsylvania and West Vir
ginia area meeting in the Wherrett Room, Skibo on Saturday, Dec.
9, at 7:30 pm.
MISSIONARY CONVENTION
Attendance at the Eighth Inter-Varsity Missionary Convention 
is open to all members of the campus community. The convention 
will be held at the University of Illinois, Urbana, 111., Dec. 27-31. 
Cost of the convention is $50, however, some financial assistance 
;s available. More information can be obtained from Jim Hoover, 
Box 251, Campus.
FILMS
UNDERGROUND FILMS...............
Palace of Pleasure and Relativity will be presented Wednesday, 
Dec. 6, in the Skibo Ballroom. Screenings will be 4:30, 7:00, 9:00 
and 11:00 pm. Tickets are priced at 75 cents.
SATURDAY NIGHT MOVIE...............
On Dec. 9 at 8 pm W. C. Fields The Fatal Glass of Beer, The 
Barber Shop, and The Pharmacist and Robert Benchleys Crime 
Control and Nothing But Nerves.
JOBS
AMERICAN EUROPEAN STUDENT SERVICE...............
The American-European Student Service announces that job 
opportunities are still open for the coming summer in Europe, many , ) 
available without previous experience or foreign language ability 
required. The purpose of the program is to afford the student an 
opportunity to get into real living contact with the people and cus
toms of Europe. In return for his or her work, the student will 
receive room and board, plus wages. Interested students should 
write to: American-European Student Service, Box 34733, FI 9490 
Vaduz Service, 22 Ave. de la Liberia, Luxembourg City, Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg.
EMPLOYMENT DIRECTORY...............
Over 50,000 summer jobs, open to college students, are listed 
in the new 1968 Summer Directory. The Directory will be available 
at the Morewood Desks and at the Placement Office.
0
