Cc>The'*
Carnegie Tech Tartan
mm
Volume 64  Number 9Wednesday, November 11, 1964
Greek System To Sponsor 
Masquerade Ball And Contest
by Gretchen Smith
CFP and Panhel will sponsor a Masquerade Ball costume 
competition on November 13.
Judging for the fraternity competition will begin about
,0 p.m. in Wherret Lounge and >  ................ ----------
six trophies will be presented at 
about 11:30 p.m. Judging will be 
based not only on costumes but 
also on the manner of presenta
tion.
The four interfraternity judges 
will be Lynelle Tiger Torno, 
president of Panhel; Hank Werronen, president of CFP; Mr. 
Schwert, a TA in the biology de^ partment; and Carole Davis, a 
representative of the promotion 
department of Kaufmanns.
In addition to the inter-fra
ternity competition, Panhel cos
tume competition will be open to 
all women. The three award 
categories will be: most original 
choice of character, most unique 
costume, and best portrayal of 
character. Ribbons will be 
awarded.
The Masquerade Ball is part of 
Greek Weeks activities and is 
open to all students on campus. 
The dance is scheduled from 8 
p.m. to 1 a.m. in Skibo Ballroom 
and will feature Bobby Comstock 
and Gary U. S. Bonds. The price 
of admission is a costume.
Twenty Named 
fcTo Manage 
Spring Carnival
This years Spring Carnival 
Committee has been chosen 
from among 50 applicants. 
The first meeting of the group 
will be Thursday in Skibo 
at 4:30.
* According to Richard Elkman, 
Spring Carnival Committee chair
man, the large number of people 
who applied indicates a revitaliz
ed interest in big week-ends. The 
position of dorm ticket salesman 
is still open for applicants, how
ever.
The committee appointments 
are as follows: Chairman, Richard 
Elkman; Vice Chairman, Mickey 
-Long, Mike Allen; Treasurer, 
'Chuck Schoenfeldt; Secretaries, 
Pat Barton, Bev Philofsky; Sweep
stakes, Don Pitman, Roger Pow
ell; Midway, Buck Buchanan; 
Publicity, Elissa Parker; Print
ing, Frank Vigliotti; Queen Pre
sentations, Carol Kurtz; Sorority 
Relays, Sue Seibert; Judges, Don
na Due; Decorations, Marlene De
Marco; Manpower, Bob Glaubinger; Tickets, Jeff Kalin; Sound 
m Systems, WRCT; Talent Jambo
ree, Dave Shomper; Plan Joust
ing, George Mink; Call Day, 
Frank Brady; Elephant Races, 
Delta Skull.
ODK Selects 
Three Seniors
As Members
by Joe Califf
Omicron Delta Kappa, the 
National Mens Leadership 
Honorary, has selected three 
new members from the senior 
class.
They are: Michael Gross, a DU 
and Chanrman of the General 
Campus Committee; Tom John
son, a SN and head of the Stu
dent Union Committee; and 
Luther Stevens, an ATO and 
president of Eta Kappa Nu Hon
orary and member of IEEE.
Also tapped, for faculty mem
bership, were Dr. Lawrence Canjar, Associate Dean, Engineering 
and Science, and Dr. Richard A. 
Wells, Assistant Dean of Fresh
men.
.-X
Each year ODK selects three 
percent of the senior class for 
membership on the basis of their 
high academic standing and lead
ership in campus organizations.
ODK members who were 
tapped last spring are Keith 
Pierce, Ben Porter, Joseph Sandulli, Henry Werronen, and Gary 
Lindstrom.
ASME Plans 
Missile Lecture
Victor Lindner, of the Ammu
nition Engineering Directorate of 
|Picatinny Arsenal, will speak at 
the first meeting of the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers 
November 16, 7:30 p.m. in the 
G.S.I.A. auditorium.
The topic of his talk will be 
The Development > of Guided 
Missile Warheads.
All Carnegie Tech students are 
invited. Refreshments will be 
served.
Profs To Discuss 
Political Vistas
The Pittsburgh branch of the 
Sane Nuclear Policy Committee is 
sponsoring a panel discussion on 
New Perspectives in American 
Politics.
The meeting will be held in the 
Wherrett Room of Skibo at 8:30 
this evening.
Members of the panel will be 
Dr. Robert Colodny, Dr. David 
Montgomery, and Dr. Earl Smith. 
Dr. Colodny and Dr. Montgomery 
are both professors of history at 
the University of Pittsburgh.. Dr. 
Smith is a professor of Surgery 
at the University of Pittsburgh 
and is president of the Catholic 
Interracial Committee.
The panel will discuss the po
litical future of peace, labor and 
civil rights groups.
The discussion is open to the 
public.
Formal Rush Begins Sunday; 
Sororities Plan Rush Parties
Stever Confers 
With Deans 
On Campus
by Sue Attinson
Dr. Horton Guy ford Stever 
made his first visit to the 
Carnegie Tech campus last 
week.
The purpose of his visit was 
to acquaint himself with the 
administrative staff and ad
ministrative organization.
He ai-rived on campus Tuesday 
afternoon and scheduled hourlong conferences with vice presi
dents, assistants to the president, 
academic deans, and the dean of 
students. He also spent several 
hours with President Warner.
On Thursday afternoon he at
tended the Benjamin F. Fairless 
Lecture.
Dr. Stever plans to make two 
more visits to Carnegie Tech be
fore he assumes the school presi
dency in February. His visits are 
scheduled for early December and 
mid-January.
* by Cindy Morse
The first day of formal sorority rush is Sunday, Novem
ber 15.
A sorority rushee must have attained at least a 2.00 
factor for any grading period prior to rush week. Anyone
 ---------------?not meeting this academic reO  IT* 1 quirement cannot attend rush
'*b yG*r yet'*ch functions but will be eligible for
an open bid as soon as she raises 
her grades to the required level.Tomorrow
by Howard Weiss
Theodore O. Yntema, vice 
president of the Ford Motor 
Company, will deliver the last 
Benjamin F. Fairless lecture 
on Frontiers of Education, 
tomorrow in Skibo ballroom.
In his second lecture Yntema 
discussed Guides for Economic 
Policy. He advocated improve
ment in business competition but 
stated that no competition can 
be perfect.
He stated, By and large, in 
spite of its imperfections, busi
ness competition is more intense 
in the United States than in other 
countries, and it does an effective 
job of limiting power and making 
industry responsive to consumer 
desires.
Theh.h-XXMmh. |cM-Xhn
The Pennsylvania Home Eco
nomics Chapters Fall Workshop 
at Temple University nominated 
Carnegie Tech students as area 
officers. Ailene Frank and Betsy 
White of the Carnegie Tech 
Chapter were slated for ViceChairman and Western Area 
Chairman, respectively.
If elected these girls will repre
sent all 18 chapters of the Penn
sylvania Home Economics Asso
ciation. Results of the election 
will be announced by December.
Carpenter Places First
In Debate Tournament
by Lis Seley
John Carpenter, of the Carnegie Tech Novice Debating 
Team, placed first among 100 speakers at the invitational 
Tartan Novice Tournament held here October 31.
Carnegie Tech placed fifth out 
of the twenty-eight teams at
tending the tournament.
Carpenter and his partner, Su
san Lindamood, spoke in favor 
of establishing a federal program 
of public works for the unem
ployed. They were undefeated in 
four intermural debates. Car
penter averaged the highest num
ber of speaker points per round, 
25 out of the possible 30.
At the tournament, A1 Rettig 
and Harry Light successfully de
bated for Carnegie Tech against 
Westminster College and Cali
fornia State University.
November 15 there will be six 
informal parties, each forty 
minutes long, at Skibo from 1 
p.m. to 6 p.m. Invitations must 
be picked up and answered be
tween 9 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., Fri
day, November 13.
Four forty-five minute parties 
will be held Nov. 16 in Skibo 
from 4:30 to 6:05 and from 7 
p.m. to 8:45. Invitations may be 
obtained in Dean Milligans Of
fice and answered between 9 a.m, 
and2 p.m.
Three one hour theme parties 
will be held November 18, 4:30 
p.m. to 5:30 p.m., 6:30 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. and 7:45 p.m. to 8:45 
p.m. Invitations must be picked 
up in Dean Milligans office and 
answered between 9 a.m. and 2 
p.m.
The fourth and final day of 
rush is November 20. There will 
be two parties from 6 p.m. to 8 
p.m. and from 8:30 p.m. to 10:30 
p.m. A dress and heels will 
be appropriate. Invitations may 
be obtained between 9 a.m. and 
2 p.m. in Dean Milligans office.
Bid day will be November 21. 
Rushees will file their preference 
on ballots in the Dean of Wo
mens office by 10:30 a.m. and 
will pick up their bids at 2:30 
p.m. They will be required to 
file a form of acceptance or re
gret by 4 p.m.
Girls who will be unable to 
attend any rush function or file 
her ballot schould contact Esth
er Lieber, Panhellenic Rush 
Chairman, in 5C10 Morewood Gar
dens.
John Carpenter
Debates Public Works
The.- Xh-Mm
Arthur D. Hall, head of Tele
vision Engineering Department, 
Bell Telephone Laboratories, will 
conduct a design seminar tomor
row at 4 p.m. in Scaife Hall Audi
torium. His topic will be How 
Can Systems Engineering Be 
Taught.
The lecture will be open to the 
public.
Building Plans Scheduled 
For New Administration Hall
by Candy Etkin
Trustees of Carnegie Tech are expected to approve the 
plans for the new Administration Hall this week.
The building will be situated on Forbes Avenue.
Original plans for the building^------------------------------------------------------
were rejected, because the esti
mated cost exceeded the budget.
The architects however, were able
|ecmn i*yj RAAPhme
Clio, the Carnegie Tech History 
Club, has elected officers for this 
semester. They are: Roberta Waldenberg, president, Ellie Peters, 
vice-president, Sherry Ehrmann, 
Secretary, and Alice Bluestein, 
Treasurer.
to produce new plans and a new 
estimate within the budget.
Preliminary designs have been 
formulated, but +hey will not be 
completed until February 1, 1965. 
The building will consist of six 
floors, and will be 110 feet by 60 
feet.
It takes a minimum of one 
year to plan a building, stated 
Mr. Richard Strathmeyer, vicepresident for business affairs. Be
cause of rejection of the original 
plans, the process is slower 
than we would like it to be.
Construction is slated to begin 
April 1. Completion will take 
twelve to fourteen months..
The existing Administration 
Hall will be used for classrooms 
and offices. Deans are presently 
working on space requirements 
for their own colleges.
Congress Meeting
There will be a Student 
Congress meeting today in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo, at 
4:30 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

One Of TheHOTTER CTopics Of > I Our Time c I ...Now 1 I Scorches 1 ' The Screen!
Kii ACIKSS AWftRS 
CMS W.M fcSTWM.
MmM Btrbart Bvria
Semi* Hamilton Richvd Mulligan 
IHanyBallavarJ >.Marti Mwicka
Pate *  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 11, 1964
Hccejym.E RLhmM
Eileen Farrell will sing in La 
Gionconda, Pittsburgh Operas 
first production of the season, No
vember 19 and 21 at Syria Mos
que. Students can get reducedrate tickets for the performance j 
at the Deans office, College of 
Fine Arts.
|ecmn YhPcymh
Dr. George B. Fowler of the j 
University of Pittsburgh History ! 
Department will speak on Con
flict of Christian Tradition in 
History today at 6:45 p.m. in the j 
Church of Ascension, Ellsworth 
and Neville.
The meeting will be preceded i 
by communion in the Chapel at j 
5:30 and followed by a 50 cent 
dinner.
Series Canceled
Tech Christian Fellowship re
grets to announce that it has had 
to cancel its lecture series on 
Christian Anthropology due to 
illness of the lecturer, Dr. James 
L. Kelso. The series is tenta
tively planned for the spring. 
The fellowship will meet this 
Friday at 7 p.m. in room 39 of 
Skibo. Visitors are welcome.
Hilton Hotel
AN EVENING
Mass at 7:30
Entertainment 9 till 1
Brockett-Barbara Review 
The Four of Us 
Walt Harper Dance Band
Sunday, Nov. 22, 1964
Admission S2.75 ($2.50 if 
purchased before Nov. 20
Sponsored by Catholic 
Young Adult Clubs
Film Arts Society 
Thursday 4:30-7:00-9:30
Vittorio de Sicas Masterpiece
"Umberto D"
A profoundly moving film.
N.T. Times
Friday, November 13th 
7:00  9:00 
Film Arts invites you to 
join us at
SCAIFE HALL
in Carnegie Techs most 
modern theatre ORSON 
WELLES production
MACBETH
and the film youve been 
asking for
XRf Ra r|t HOvUOUt
Adm. FreeLimited Seating
7th and Final Week 
LILIs BACK!
ONE PORTO.
ItoOWHTO
|cMnei*y hj RAPHAEL H*Yf 
art OffvtUK H. HAMTTOH 
ery by ORvn.Lt H. MAMf'TOft Muatt toy ae*Al0 F*0 
A SAWA4.CO MCTtMl 
COMPANY raOOUCTKM 
A CiNCMA V P*EE*TATI0*
An M-G-M Picture
_ _ JEAN PIEMECARON FERRER AUMONT
m *SpSo by | TECHNICOLOR* |6th WEEK!
FORVM
PHONE
mm
s,-
|vKbOtOX ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SWP
i|ttXtbOtOX ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''S4P
|UCYR bOtOX ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''l4P
OUYYtT i|ttXt '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SWP
aUX| XvfTNUi| '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''lWP
aOtfi| aOUtX ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SlP
iRiv iRYv ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SIP 0 SWP
ORRr ttO''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SIP 0 SWP
ROvft ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SIP 0 SWP
YtKRf TOUfG '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SIP 0 SWP
KUYGX|vGtX''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''lIP
Choc; Van; Straw
iRaatt '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SIP
|Rr i|Ri''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''SlP
Anwrica i Fastest Growing Quiclc-Serre Family Restaurant Now At These Three Pittsburgh Locations
WILKINSBURG
, Penn & Braddock
BADEN MOON TOWNSHIP
00 Ft from Grtr Tgk. Airport
Get Your Student 
Sampler Book Now!
Get in the swing of things by cashing in on 
all the savings that are waiting for you in
THE STUDENT SAMPLER BOOK
What is THE STUDENT SAMPLER BOOK? The 
Samples is a book of coupons which entitles the pur
chaser to over $100 in free merchandise and services.
With the Sampler Book You Get
 Free dinners
 Free dry cleaning
 Free bowling and billiards
 Free mens and womens wear
 Car washes and car lubes
 Beauty Shops and Barber Shops
Get yours for only $2.00 weekdays from 4:30-6:00 
at the Tartan Office, Room 50 Skibo 
or the request blank below in the campus mail
THE STUDENT SAMPLER
Campus Mail 
o/o The Tartan
Name
Campus Address ...............
Number of books desired .
Enclosed is $........................
 IIIIIKMIMMIIMIMIIIIIMII
tmimiiiHifttiiMtimmttmmwHmiimiimmitHHiiiniiMmHmiftitHfHe(I Pittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 jf
Exclusive at Roberts
*175
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
JOHN M. ROBERTS < SON (<>
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN 
East Hills Shopping Center 
731 Washington Road, Mt. Lebanon

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 11, 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 5
BS and MS ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE GRADUATES
Aeronautical Applied Mechanics 
Electrical Engineering Mechanics
Industrial Engineering Physics
Mechanical Engineering Science
Metallurgical Physics
Will be involved with such projects as developing Space and life Support 
Systems, Engine and Afterburner Controls, Air Induction Control Systems, 
Advanced Lightweight Propellers, Electron Beam Industrial Machines, 
Ground Support Equipment, Electronic Control Systems, Overhaul and Re* 
pair Programs, BioScience Studies, Industrial Valves.
Hamilton Standard is presently working in the areas of Aerodynamics, 
Compressible Flow/ Control Dynamics, Digital and Analog Computation, Elec
tronics, Electron Optics, Fluid Dynamics, Heat Transfer, Hydraulics, Hydro
dynamics, Instrumentation, Internal Aerodynamics, Kinematics, Magnetic 
Circuitry, Mechanical Metallurgy, Physics, Quality Control, Reliability, Servo
mechanisms, Statistical Analysis, Thermodynamics, Tool Engineering, Tran
sistor Circuitry, Vibration.
For interview, see your Placement Officer, or write Supervisor 
of College Relations, Personnel Department
Hamilton UnitedStandard Aircraft
Windsor Locks, Connecticut 
vf tubvY RHHROrbfUr_ tKHYR_tO
or
Steinberg Invites 
MMCC Juniors
Juniors from Margaret Morri
son are invited to meet with 
Erwin R. Steinberg. Dean of Mar
garet Morrison, at an informal 
coffee, December 14th, 3:30 to
5:00 p.m. in the MMCC faculty 
lounge.
t-.*eE Xh-Mm
The English Discussion Group 
will conduct a seminar on Saul 
Bellows The Victim November 
23, at 7 p.m. in the Highlander 
Room, Skibo.
Shai'on Brady and Kathy 
Thompson will lead the discus
sion. Refreshments will be served.
WAILOP 
W&J
Classified Ads
Typing
5312.
fast and accurate. Call 621-
Woman Desires Typing  at home: ex
perienced. All types of school work, 
theses, themes, statistical work; Bellevue. 
766-7033.
Aviators Wanted  Military Pilot Back
ground Rank LCDR (Major* or below, 
> Associate and fly with a Naval Re\ serve Squardron based in Norfolk. Va.: 
Air transportation provided. Excellent 
extra income. Investigate the weekend 
warriors. Call Lt. Bruce H. 1 Wyma, 
Phone 371-7294: or Cdr. J. R. Rohleder, 
Phone 264-2752.
Kitchen Management Position: Former
head cook of Pgh. high school desires 
position with fraternity house. Cook, 
purchase, and manage kitchen. Excel
lent references. Call 331-4575.
Wanted  Roommate to share large 
modern apt. Located on Fifth Ave. near 
Aiken. Reasonable rent. Call Gene 
Buchholz at 682-1824 between 9 a.m 
and 5 p.m:
Vespa GS Scooter  2 luggage racks, 
extra compartment, air horn, spare tire, 
extra chrome, excellent condition. 882-
2535.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Correct
ed.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
Add Mew Life To 
Your Old Place
with
LUMBER  SHELVING 
PLYWOOD  MASONITE 
DOORS  BRICKS 
and other Building 
Supplies from
6 MINUTES FROM 
^OF OAKLAND
BROWNS HILL
BUILDERS
IN SQUIRREL HtU 
NEAR HOMESTEAD BRIDGE
HA.15900
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
i*yjyRAP H KRXr rtKHrUf |Rr TRX y| PEL|
 MUSTARD  MAYONNAISE
 RELISH  SAUERKRAUT
 ONION  CHILE
 PICKLE  KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER  S'.OO)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 15c 
WHOLE SHELL $2.00
------- FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS -------
(MINIMUM ORDER
iROftO aROtX 0 Rbubtr
S2.00)
JlSCFodd & JdlCd2JJ
iMLye C aM1mh5WALLYS
Ktf 
|bX|CHbHHUtX 
YRvatOX
NtYYUfrRf RRrX 
aYROX|tUK
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
NRKtf
|bX|CHbHHUtX
YRvatOX
aYvrX
TOtXX X|RtX
FOURTH ANNIVERSARY SALE!
UP TO 40% OFF LIST PRICES
ENTIRE RECORD STOCK
PHONOGRAPHS  TRANSISTORS 
PAPERBACKS
Bound & Sound
5415 WALNUT STREETCALL 621-4334
t

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 11, 1964
Editorials
The Greek Spirit
by Carol S. Guber
This week midsemester grades 
will be distributed to Carnegie 
Tech students and the parents of 
freshmen.
Comp Speeds 
In Processing
Greek Week, now about mid-wav, provides the opportunity of reflecting on the ideals of fraternalism, appraising IVfifl 1VI *11*1
the progress toward the realization of these ideals, and in- ITllU'OcIII xTlctl 1 
forming the campus and the community of the benefits and 
weaknesses of the Greek system.
It could have come at no better time in the year. This 
week, which marks the opening of the second quarter of the 
academic year, wrill be followed directly by the commence
ment of formal sorority rush. (Formal fraternity rush opens 
with the third quarter.)
The questions we are now to ask are: What has the 
Greek system done until now? What can it do for the stu
dent who is developing a new scholastic attitude? And what 
Jies ahead?
The fraternity system was born in 1776 at Williamsburg,
Virginia. Today, almost 200 years later, over 9600 chapters of 
188 fraternities and sororities are housed on the campuses of 
over 500 colleges and universities. The number of under
graduates in fraternities and sororities is presently in excess 
of 400,000. In addition, it is estimated that the total number 
of undergraduate members and alumni of fraternities alone 
approaches 5.000,000.
In numbers, the Greek system has accomplished a great 
deal. The pertinent question of what it can offer the student, 
however, becomes more important today because of the 
system's escape from the old image' to project itself into a 
society which is changing at computer-like speed.
The National Interfraternity Conference stated last year 
that some college administrators report that students are 
becoming so serious about their studies that it is increasingly 
hard to get candidates for student government, managers of 
football teams, et al. This is indeed serious, more serious than 
they state. If college students do not learn to be good citizens 
while in college, all else they learn may merely give them in
tellectual capacity without developing good citizenship and 
without learning the important responsibility of serving in 
some way our communities which desperately need help."
The National Interfraternity Conference further re
ported that scholarship ratings recently released for Car
negie Tech, where the courses are difficult, show that one 
of the fraternities led the other 11 on campus with a house 
factor well above both the all-mens average and the all
school average. In fact, the average for those living IN the 
house exceeded the over-all house average by nearly onehalf of a factor point!
In support of this, the U.S. Office of Education found 
that (a) only 33'< of men on campuses WITHOUT fraterni
ties graduated, (b) 47% of non-fraternity men on campuses 
WITH fraternities graduates, and (c) 59'^ of men IN national 
social fraternities graduated from their respective colleges.
Figures, however, are only useful in illustrating a point.
The real test of the Greek system is in the anticipation of its 
beneficial effects and the practicality of its operations. Here 
at Carnegie Tech, the Council of Fraternity Presidents and 
Panhellenic Council, along with the administration, have 
taken an enthusiastic role in determining how much more 
useful the Greek system at Carnegie Tech can be.
According to Hank Werronen. president of CFP, Greek 
Week is but a manifestation of the co-operation among the 
sororities and fraternities that goes on throughout the year.
It serves to make known the strength of the Greek system 
at Carnegie Tech.
Frederick M. Hunter, honorary chancellor of the Oregon 
State Board of Higher Education, said at the National Interfraternitv Conference last year that the college and univer
sity administrators of the United States are missing a great 
opportunity when they fail to use the fraternity organizations 
on their respective campuses as potent agents for the guid
ance of student life and the fulfillment of certain highly de
sirable outcomes of college life. This is well done on only a 
few campuses.
The Carnegie Tech Tartan
Editor-In-Chief .......................................................................Nancy Cameron
Executive Editor............................................................................Richard Elder
Business Manager ......................................................................Eric Feldmann
Desk Editor ......................................................................................Evan Melhado
News Editor ......................................................................................Sue Attinson
Sports Editor ............................................................................William Hartlep
Photography Editor ..................................................................Martin Shenker
Layout Editor ..................................................................................Bev Philofsky
Copy Editor ......................................................................................Claire Dzatko
Advertising Manager.............................................. ..................Richard Sextro
National Advertising Manager................................................Virginia Salko
Secretarial Editor .........................................................................Marylu Recco
Circulation Editor .........................................................................Tom Johnson
A4vi*r;r Board  Marcia Avner, Dale Chodorow.
Ci*ealatia Staff  Pam Reducha, Ruth Steiger, Lynn Sterman, Marina Straeb.
l>eta Rubin, Marty Kline 
f(o>inrw staff Baibara Br*wn. Diane Havduk, Rick Piano. Carol Joffe.
Uitil staff  David Klein, Mark Labovitz, Ted Pierce. Martin Shenker, Dave 
Howaith,
prt Staff Ron Bidula. Chris Macosko. Scott McCormick, Bob Rosen, Al 
Giren, Tom Terpack. Mimi Eaken.
Annual Sutjscription Rate S2.50 
Second Clans Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
The midsemester grades allow 
the administration, parents, and 
students to gain insight into the 
students progress; they help de
cide what action must be taken 
to aid him.
The preparation of grades be
gins in the fall when students 
register. On the basis of approved 
schedule cards, IBM class cards 
are then sorted by courses and 
sent to each instructor.
At midsemester and at the end 
of each semester instructors mark 
I the IBM grade cards so that the 
machine will record the grade 
permanently. Once the cards have 
| been punched, they are mechanic
ally sorted by students names into 
alphabetical order. The cards are 
then processed through a compu
ter which calculates each students 
factor and makes five copies.
A copy is sent to the dean of 
i the College, the registrar, the de
partment, and in the case of 
freshmen, to the parents, and to 
. the students advisor. Because of 
! expediency of the IBM machine 
and computers, only 24 hours lapse 
between the time the instructor 
| submits the grades to the Regis
trars Office and the time when 
the grades are sent to the ad
ministration.
Fraternities 
Meet Riishees 
Next Semester
by Mike Malakofif
The second and final fraternity 
rush parties of this semester were 
held on October 31. This brings 
up the question, What is a rush 
party and what is its purpose? 
This question can best be an
swered by understanding rush" 
and its functions at Carnegie 
i Tech.
Rushing is the period of time 
when interested students are in
troduced to the fraternity system 
and its members. It permits the 
j rushee to learn about the many 
aspects  social, academic, cul
tural, and athletic  of the Greek 
way of life.
Even more important, the 
| rushee meets these people with 
whom he must consider spending 
| the rest of his college years. It is 
during rush when the rushee 
must ask, Shall 1 become a fra: ternity man, and from what house 
can I benefit the most? By at
tending rush functions the rushee 
will be better able to answer these, 
questions.
To the active member of a 
house, rush is much the same as 
for the rushee. It permits him to 
get to know the various rushees 
so that he can decide which he 
would like as a brother, which he 
! would like to live and work with 
I in his collegiate years that follow.
Rush parties are just one facet i 
I of rush. They are just one of the 
! many opportunities to bring j 
i brothers and rushees together. I 
| Next semester there will be many j 
j more such opportunities.
To allow the rushee to make a | 
] beter decision concerning frater- i
______.Ji_
Tartan Cartoon bv Peter Hotz
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Michael W. Vargo
TmMM
Get your free tickets for the Department of Dramas 
production of The Beaux Stratagem today from 4 
to 5 p.m. in room 108, College of Fine Arts.
t6Ejce
Posters from the Past, weekdays 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and 
Saturday 9^a.m. to noon, Porter Garnett Gallery, 
Baker Hall (AH).
Carnegie Institute Womens Committee special exhibi
tion and sale of prints and drawings, November 17 
through 19, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., Carriage Entrance Cor
ridor, Carnegie Museum.
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh exhibit, Gallery 
Upstairs, Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and Shady 
Avenues.
YhPcymhe
Benjamin Fairless Memorial Lecture by Theodore O. 
Yntema, today, 4:30 p.m., Skibo Ballroom.
Discussion of the future of peace, civil rights, and labor 
groups with Dr. Earl B. Smith, Dr. David Montgomery, 
and Dr. Robert Colodny, tonight, 8:30 p.m., Wherrett 
Lounge, Skibo.
Doctor R. Rubenstein views the Playboy Philosophy, 
tomorrow night, 8 p.m., Dining Rooms A , B , and 
C, Pitt Student Union.
Post Cubism in Painting and Architecture by Nichol
son and LeCorbusier, tomorrow, 4:30 p.m., room 210, 
College of Fine Arts.
The University Center for Philosophy of Science, 
The Origin of Death by Professor George Wald, 
November 16, 8:15 p.m., Clapp Hall, Fifth Avenue.
A Seminar on Church and State, November 17, 7 p.m., 
Dining Room A, Pitt Student Union.
Khhc-.e
Emerson Club, Dr. Fred A. Sochatoff discusses Edward 
Albees play Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, No
vember 15,7 p.m., First Unitarian Church, Ellsworth 
and Morewood Avenues.
Pitkin-Teknon Club, today, 5 p.m., Shadyside Presbyter
ian Church, Amberson Avenue and Westminster Place.
K1he
*Y Friday Cine Series, The Inspector General, Novem
ber 13, 8 and 10 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
Pittsburgh International Exhibition Film Series:
Wheeeeels, Henry Moore: 1940-1944, and Black
top, daily at 3:15 p.m. through November 15, and 
tonight at 8 p.m.; Kaleidoscope and Japanese 
Calligraphy, daily at 3:15 p.m. November 16 through 
22, Hall of"" Decorative Arts, Carnegie Institute.
KyeP
?The YM&WHA Musical Society presents Marian 
Anderson, tonight, 8:40 p.m., YM&WHA, 315 South 
Bellefield Avenue.
Sunday Free Organ Recital, November 15, 3 p.m., 
Carnegie Institute Music Hall.
(?Admission Charged) _____________
nity life, the administration in
itiated a policy of deferred rush 
beginning this year.
This policy prohibits the exten
sion of written or oral bids during 
first semester. It also limits the 
number and types of first se
mester rush functions.
Until this year, formal rushing
| took place before October 1. Bids 
| were extended during the first
i few months of school.
Because of deferred ru.sh, most 
of the formal events will take 
place during the second semester. 
There will be parties, smokers 
and guest meals. Definite sched
ules have not yet been deter
mined.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 11, 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 5
>NTERV>EWS
Representatives from The David 
Taylor Model Basin will hold OnCampus Interviews
Tuesday, Nov. 17 th
Please contact your College Placement 
Officer to arrange an appointment.
a*mAh.M t6Ejc
An exhibit of 17th century Floyjlegia, (picturebooks of garden 
flowers), and related paintings 
and prints, opened at Hunt Bo
tanical Library November 2.
All materials shown are from 
the librarys collections. The exr^it is open to the public week
days, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. until March 
31.
YhXfhh- i*Meehe m X AXna Yhr ' ' '
-SCOTTY'SOPE1S TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
o4Sd aROtX v^tfbt
'' ' -n t ' '
ORbrt d' fROr| Ra trfv F4Sd Htff v^t'
Goldenfeltls Market
THE NEAREST TO THE UNIVERSITY
Otiers the BEST SELECTION IN
Groceries, Meats, Delicatessen,
Dairy Products, General Merchandise 
and Frozen Foods 
2Wl2 amjhe v1h-yh D-hMm X' imM.Q
Where the Service Is Friendly and Personal
SPECIAL DIS< OINT FOR LARGE PARTIES AND FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
David Taylor Model Basin j U.S. Department of the Navy
Washington, D.C. 20007
An Equal Opportunity Employer
<D The Washington Circumferential Highway allows speedy ac
cess to best suburban communities in the District of Columbia, 
Maryland, and Northern Virginia.
(D HYDROMECHANICS LABORATORY facilities Include this HighSpeed Towing Basin almost 3/5 OF A MILE LONG, 50 feet wide, 
and 20 feet deep. This Laboratory is concerned with speed, sta
bility, control and seakeeping qualities of floating or submerged 
-M1M* designs, and with fundamental naval hydrodynamics.
(^) APPLIED MATHEMATICS LABORATORY facilities include the 
latest, largest computer systems, and feature the LARC, the 
IBM 7090, and a 1401. This is BuShips primary computing fa
cility, working on engineering, research logistics, and numerical 
methods. Work carried on here involves mathematic simulation 
of the life cycle of nuclear reactors; automatic calculation of 
ship lines; and applications of computers to management prob
lems.
this giant new Maneuvering and Seakeeping facility, 
both fixed and free-running models may be tested under any 
sea-state condition. You may also work with the High-Speed 
Phenomena Division at Langley Field, Virginia.
V*J/ AERODYNAMICS LABORATORY facilities include several 
wind tunnels-ranging from subsonic through hypersonic at 
Mach 10which are used to determine and improve static sta
bility, control and heat transfer characteristics of helicopters, 
VTOLs, supersonic aircraft, missiles, etc. Air flow studies also 
involve bomb design, bridge structures, aircraft turbulence when 
approaching carriers, and other government and private prob
lems.
(6) The unique STRUCTURAL MECHANICS LABORATORY facili
ties at Carderock are the new pressure tanks which permit thp 
study, by means of large structural models, of the hull struc
tures for deep diving submarines and deep sea research vehicles 
to reach all ocean depths. Additional Structural Mechanics Labo
ratory facilities are scattered throughout the 186 acres, and 
include a tridimensional Static-Load Frame, a Pentagonal Test 
Pond, Explosion Pits, and a 600.000-Pound Universal Testing 
Machine. With these facilities, Laboratory scientists and engi
neers conduct studies aimed at improving the hull structure 
and increasing the resistance of the Navy's ships to enemy at
tack. This requires development of fundamental, theoretical ap
proaches of load and response, and development of engineering 
solutions based on the increased understanding. A substantial 
portion of the ship protection research is carried out at the 
Underwater Explosions Research Division of this Laboratory lo
cated at Portsmouth, Virginia.
The ACOUSTICS AND VIBRATION LABORATORY was jost 
established to intensify research and development of ships of 
improved detection capability, and reduced vibrations and under
water sound output. Fundamental and applied research in hydro
dynamics, structural acoustics, mechanical vibrations, and signal 
processing are supplemented by conduct of acoustic and vibra
tion trials, and development of acoustic and vibration instru
mentation.
The OPERATIONS RESEARCH GROUP cannot be pinpointed 
as easily because it ranges over all the RDT&E activities at The 
Model Basin - hydromechanics, structural mechanics, aerody
namics, and applied mathematics. Special applications today 
Mmh in the fields of naval architecture, ship silencing, ship pro
tection, and weapons effects . . . setting realistic performance 
goals for ships and submarines in view of probable enviro*- 
mental factors . . . handling special externally-generated pro
jects that tie in with DTMB capabilities . . . and making recom
mendations to the Technical Director as to improving research 
methods and orientation.
r ecMAA cEheh A1h LhmMc-. YMjmMcmheB 9h Mmh ehhVp
-. P**h.h .mM5yMche 9cE XB KXB m HET 5h.mhhe - 
vhmeLMPhB t*hPcmPM*B t*hPcm-PB KhPEM-PM* m XcmyPp
cymM* t-.-hhm-.s - vLL*h5 KhPEM-PeB KMcEhMcPeB 
HEnePeB M-5 fM1M* vmPEchPcymh'
Of course, from this height you cant see much de
tail, which makes the imposing expanse of the two main 
buildings all the more intriguing. Perhaps you can guess 
their functions, but it's also what you cant see (and 
this is summarized in the adjoining column) that makes 
the David Taylor Model Basin a completely unique fun
damental and applied research organization  and a 
place you should seriously consider for your career 
Me a professional scientist or engineer. As the Navy's 
advanced facility for research into submarine, surface 
ship, aircraft and missile design concepts, the Model 
Basin can offer the young graduate certain specific 
opportunities hard to find anywhere else.
1. Reach the $10,000 to $12,000 level WITHIN 4 YEARS.
2. Take graduate courses for advance degree with Navy 
help.
3. Gain diversified RDT & E experience with the best 
equipment and facilities of their kind.
4. Work on research projects of recognized national im
portance.
5. Attain recognized professional stature sooner, at 
which point a number of futures are available.
Watch for the David Taylor Model Basin interviewer 
when he visits your campus, or contact Mr. S. Di Maria 
directly for information.
You are high over the Potomac River just 12 miles 
from the White House... and viewing 186 acres 
of extraordinary research activity

---------------------------------------------------

Pace   CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November II, 1964
Soccer Play 
Shows Leaders, 
Five Dominate
by Venu Clari
Soccer, for the first time a major 
sport, is composed of eighteen 
teams competing for the cham
pionship. Teams likely to make it 
to the play-offs and pose a threat 
to favored Dorm Trojans K and 
International S are SAE, Inter
national G and PKA Garnet.
The biggest surprise of the first 
two weeks is SAE *B who was 
seated last in the Steeler League. 
They defeated Dorm Trojans S, 
BTP and GSIA. Providing they 
win their Saturday game with DU. I 
they will assume undisputed firstplace in their league, leaving 
Dorm Trojans S, BTP, and 
GSIA scrambling for second. 
Should they lose to DU. both first 
and second positions will be hotly 
contested. Other games in this lea
gue saw Dorm Trojans S and 
GSIA down DU, and BTP over 
GSIA.
In the Giant League, SAE A 
is in the lead with wins over the 
Architects and TDP. ATO has a 
tie with the Architects, and a win 
by forfeit over International G. 
If International G doesnt field 
a team meeting the requirements, 
competition for first and second 
seats in the league will be be
tween SAE A and ATO. The 
only other game in this league saw 
the Architects defeat TDP.
Competition in the Eagles Lea
gue is between International S 
and PKA Garnet for the first 
place, with the Internationals be
ing favored. The Internationals 
have wins over DTD and the Good 
Guys. PKA has a win over DTD, 
and DTD has a win over the Good 
Guys.
In the Bear League, the Dorm 
Trojans K is overpowering the 
opposition and should take firstplace with little effort. They have 
impressive wins over the Grad 
Nads and PKA Gold". SN, with a 
win over PKA, is favored to take 
second. PKA has a win over the 
Grad Nads.
This year soccer is more pop
ular than in past years, but there 
is one serious fault. It seems that 
teams lacking experience also 
have difficulty making the switch 
from football to soccer. The play
offs start next week and the teams 
that have made it to these play
offs using football tactics will be 
hard pressed to look capable when 
they come up against a skillful 
soccer team.
Motorsports
To Hold Rally
Carnegie Techs Motorsports 
Club is holding its second rally 
this Sunday. Participants in the 
75 mile event will leave Skibo 
parking lot at 12:01 p.m.
Last years rally was quite suc
cessful, according to John Elliott, 
raileymaster, and the club plans 
to hold one per semester this 
year.
Information and entry blanks 
may be obtained from John El
liot, 226 Donner Hall, or Gordon 
Barrett, 329 Donner Hall. The 
entry fee is $2.50,
hc rPVhce r5Mn
Tickets for George Farquhars 
Beaux Stratagem will be dis
tributed this afternoon from 4 to 
5 in Room 104, Fine Arts.
Beaux Stratagem is the sec
ond performance of the Depart
ment of Drama, and will open 
November 21.
Tartan photo by Martin Shenker
ATTENTION NEW YORKERS!
For Thanksgiving Vacation, Travel to 
New York on a chartered Greyhound bus. 
The Bus leaves the Skibo Parking lot at 
5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 25 (to 
arrive at Port Authority Terminal at 
1:00 a.m.) and will be returning from 
Sloan House (Y.M.C.A. on 34th street) 
at 3:00 p.m. on Sun., November 29 (avoid
ing the crowds and delays at the bus 
terminal).
Make out your check to Stephen Weinreich for $17.50 (round trip) or $10.00 
(one way) and send it to Box 250 Camp
us Mail.
Weil see you on on the bus.
STEVE WEINREICH 
STEVE ROSENBLATT 
Box 250
Our 3rd Year
Arf! Arf!
v
The development 
of management 
is essential 
to our goal of 
great growth
vc cEh S4J2 ecPVE*5hmew hhc-.B vmgMn K**hmB
Hmhe5h-c A am5 Kcm iLM-nB hLEMexh5 cEh 
iLM-n,e AMmCe.Ech5 mhPmych-c Lm.mM M-5 ce MPPh-c 
- 5h1h*L-. M-M.hh-c cM*h-c7
"One aspect of our planning is crucial to the success of 
everything else we do. It engages the best thoughts and efforts of 
our whole management team, from top to bottom, throughout the 
world. I am speaking of the development of management The 
immediate future of our Company depends heavily upon the abilities 
of the people who are now key members of our management team. 
"In the longer run, our future depends on what we are doing at 
the present time to attract and develop the people who will 
be making the major decisions 10 to 20 years from now. We are 
developing management competence in depth in order to attack th 
problems that will confront a company of great growthand 
great growth (both in profits and sales) is exactly the goal 
we have established for Ford Motor Company.
We are continuing to emphasize recruiting. Last spring, 180 of our 
management people devoted part of their time to recruiting 
outstanding graduates from colleges and universities throughout 
the U.S. Last year, these efforts resulted in our hiring over 
1,000 graduates, 220 more than the year before.
We are seeking and we are finding young menand young women, 
toowith brains and backbonepeople who have the ability and 
the desire to make room for themselves at the top. We give our 
trainees challenging assignments with as much responsibility as 
they can carry. We promote them as fast as they are ready. Those 
who are interested in easy security soon drop out. Those who 
have what we want stay with us, and move up quickly to increased 
responsibility and the pay that goes with it. Thanks to the quality 
of the people we are recruiting and developing, I am firmly 
convinced that our outlook is most promising.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn. Michigan
(An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 11, 1964  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  P**e 7
Tartans Lose Last Home Game;
Succumb to Rochester 35-18
by Ron Bidula
Carnegie Tech went down 
to its seventh defeat of the 
season last Saturday at Tech 
Field as the Yellow Jackets 
from the University of Roch
ester blasted the Tartans 35- 
I 18.
The smallest crowd of the sea
son watched as Tech successfully 
stopped the vaunted Rochester air 
attack. Rochester moved at will 
on the ground, though, and junior 
^^SEullback Ted Fink gained 198 
yards in 14 carries.
Jim Black x'eturned the opening 
kick-off to the 22. After two losses 
on the ground, freshman John 
Barth circled left end for 31 yards 
to the CIT 47. Tech was forced to 
punt three plays later, but an off
side penalty gave CIT a first down 
on the visitors 43. Penalties and 
two incomplete passes stopped the 
(' offensive, though and on fourth 
down Tom Hubka fumbled the 
snap. Rob Stone recovered for the 
Jackets on the Tech 31.
On the next play Dave Wormuth passed to Terry Connery 
on the 1. Hesek plunged over 
for the TD at 9:17. Stones con
version was good and the Tar
tans trailed 7-0.
Pete Ostling punted three plays
* later to the Rochester 33, and the 
Jackets once again appeared 
touchdown bound. Fink ran for 43 
yards to the Tech 22, but then the 
Tech defense stiffened and stop
ped the visitors on the 10. Tech 
still couldnt move the ball, and 
and Ostling punted again to the 
Rochester 48.
Techs defense was still tough. 
Two plays later Dick McIntosh 
quick-kicked 60 yards to the Tech 
5. The Tartans couldnt get out of 
the hole, though the second per
iod opened as CIT once again 
punted.
Rochester took over at mid
field and quickly moved 50 yards 
in five plays for the score. Fink 
crossed the goal from three yards 
out at 11:45. The PAT was good 
and the Tartans were now down 
. 14-0.?
The two teams traded punts 
before CIT could mount a scor
ing drive. Chuck Zak returned 
the Jacket punt from his own 
26 to the Rochester 47. Wisniew
ski then hit Dave DAppolonia 
on the 30, and the senior end 
outran his defender for the 
score. The PAT was off to the 
left, and Tech now trailed 14-6 
at 6:22.
k Neither team could score again 
in the first half. Techs defense 
was good in spots and prevented 
the big scoring play from occur
ring The Jackets defense was 
equally as effective, however, and 
continually harassed Wisniewski. 
Ostling was able to punt out of 
trouble when the offense couldnt 
move the ball across the 50.
The first half of the third quai
nter was a defensive battle. The 
Jackets scored at 7:18 when senioi- Dick Rice gathered in an Ostl
ing punt on his 18 and ran 82 
yards over, around, and through 
the hapless Tartans. Stone con
verted again and the score was 
now 21-6.
Tartans Close Gap
Tech bounced back quickly. 
Black returned the kick-off to the 
35 from where the Tartans marched 65 yards in 7 plays for the TD. 
The big play was Barths 27 yard 
run around left end. Merrill scor
ed from 8 yards out at 2:54. Wisoverthrew his receiver on the 
conversion attempt, and the sc9re 
was now 21-12.
This was Fink's day. After the 
visitors returned the kick-off to 
their 43, Ted ran 57 pards on the
Wisniewski gets pass away despite on rushing Rochester defenders.
Tartan line squares off against Rochester.
next play for his second TD of the 
day. Stone converted again, and 
at 2:33 a rout appeared to be in 
the making as Rochester now led 
28-12.
Merrill Leads Drive
Dick Merrill rose to the oc
casion, though. After Tech return
ed the kick-off to their 35, the big 
junior fullback took charge. Dick 
carried the ball seven times and 
caught one pass as the Tartans 
scored in ten plays.
Merrill crossed the goal line 
at 10:48 of the fourth quarter 
after gathering in a flat pass at 
the 10. Wisniewskis pass for 
the extra point was incomplete
and the score was now 28-18.
By now, however, Rochester 
was confident of victory. The 
Jackets took the kickoff back to 
their 43 and stayed on the ground 
to use as much time as possible.
Rick Quiram and Ted Fink took 
turns testing the Tech defense as 
the Jackets moved toward the CIT 
goal line. After ten plays moved 
the ball to the 2, Fink scored his 
third touchdown and Stone again 
converted to make the score 35-18 
with 5:36 left in the game.
Dick Merrill was replaced in the 
Tech lineup, and the CIT offense 
was powerless without him. Tech j 
did manage to move to the Ro
chester 18 on the next drive before 
the Jackets took over and ran out 
the clock.
The game ended on an odd play, 
j Scrub quarterback Uris passed 
from the Tech 38 to Earl Thomas 
on the 20. The alert Thomas lateraled to Quiram who scooted over 
for an apparent score. Chuck Zak 
was clipped on the play, however, 
and the final Jacket threat was 
nullified.
Eight seniors played their last 
home game. Paul Wisniewski, Jim 
Black, Dave Heil, Jack Love, 
Pete Mangarella, Dave D'Appolonia, George McGreary, and Bill 
Coleman wil graduate next June. 
| This Saturday the Tartans close 
out the season with a road game 
at W & J.
Scoring
U. ofRochester .... 7 714 735
Carnegie Tech .........0 66 618
Statistics
Carnegie Tech Rochester
13First Downs14
115Yards Hushing248
90Yards Passing74
18Passes Attempted11
6Passes Completed5
1Passes Intercepted1
3Fumbles1
1Fumbles Lost1
751Penalties646
835.0 Punts344.7
YOU?
Are you in a Tartan 
photo? Prints of all pic
tures, whether or not they 
appeared in the paper, are 
available for $1.00 per 8x10.
To order, call the Tartan 
office at 682-4557, or con
tact Martin Shenker, photo
graphy editor.
M & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED  NEW MODERN 
QUARTERS  ACROSS ST. 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
OvTUR C tYtirOUi iR' 
XbHHYUtX 
OvTURX 
|U| aUTtYUr_ 
rtYt^UXURf 
OtiROT HYv_tOX 
JlSC2lSS
115 OAKLAND AVE.
EARN VACATION MONEY
PART-TIME
Flexible Hours to Suit Your Schedule
Postore and Associates announces openings for 
part-time representatives in our educational 
material sales division. Come in for interview 
Sat., Nov. 14; 9 A.M., 1 P.M., 2:30 P.M., or 4 P.M. 
onlv at the Hotel Webster Hall. Room 153.
We all 
make 
mistakes. 
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATONS CORRASABLE BOND
We cant be on perfect key every time, but typing error* 
neednt show. And wont on Corrasable...Eatons paper 
with the special surface that comes clean in a whisk 
with an ordinary pencil eraser. Theres no smear or scar 
left in evidence when you type on Corrasable.
Your choice of Corrasable in 
light, medium, heavy weights and 
Onion Skin. In handy 100- 
sheet packets and 500-sheet 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
CofrSsable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper 
EATON PAPER CORPORATION S*E) PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
Studies piling up?
Pause. Have a Coke. 
Coca-Cola  with a lively lift 
and never too sweet, refreshes best.
things gObetter.i
^withCoke
ottl#d undei the authority of The Coca Cola Company by, ~ ^
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMP AN V 
* Pittebirgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Pag* 8  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, November 11, 1964
FURNITURE - 40% Off At CHASE'S
40% Off Bedrooms, Dinettes, and Livingrooms. 
These are shown at factory warehouse displays 
and are available for immediate delivery.
NEW 9 x 12 RUGS$15 to *59
None higher . . . Other sizes . . .
100 of these rugs may be seen ... at
H|iXH,iU W2ol NvYfbr XrOttr
wAiXaMw ' (next to Shadyside Post Office
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily . . . Until 5 p.m. Saturday.i
 Inquiry about furniture may be made at Rug Showroom above. The furniture displays are nearby . . . 621-1025
ih R1hm M-5 Oh*M6 
H*Mn-. HPVhc **Mm5e
 at  
ErO-nv. UcnhKcrhX YMOOMn jh-Xh
The RACK & CUE
218 Oakland Avenue 
bMO. LhOch 
Open Daily 11 to 1
SPORT
City ...................................................................... State........................................... Zip
A STATUS SYMBOL FOR YOU 
BLACK SHEEP  TAKE PRIDE
Cross Country Season Perfect;
Harriers Crush Last Two Foes
by Bill Marietta
Carnegie Techs Tartan harriers closed out their third 
straight undefeated season with a 17-46 victory over Roch
ester Institute of Technology on the 4.3 mile Schenley Park
course last Saturday. With this#------------------------------------------------*------
last showing Coach Carl Olson
handed the school a streak of 
35 straight wins that will rest 
comfortably until next fall.
Macosko Breaks Records
Chris Macosko led the Tartans 
with a record-breaking perform
ance. Macosko traversed the 
Schenley course in 23 minutes 
and one second. 10 seconds bet
ter than former Tech ace Mike 
Cambells 1962 time. Following 
Macosko were teammates Harry 
Burkholder and Roger Cairns. 
Burkholder exhausted from a 
week of long hours due to mid
term exams performed well un
der his usually high capabilities.
Dan Gersey of Rochester fin
ished fourth. Gersey was chased 
to the tape by Techs Tom Keim. 
Paul Fackler, George Crawford, 
and Kem Philips who took 5th, 
6th, 7 th, and 8th respectively. 
Rochesters Harry Lorentzen. 
Fred Franke. and Jim Hartsig 
took the next three places. Bill 
Marietta, Dave Simons, and Russ 
Jones of Tech beat our Roches
ters fifth man, Bob Snack, who 
closed the scoring.
Tech Smashes St. Vincent
Three days earlier Carnegie 
Tech whitewashed St. Vincent 15- 
50, a perfect score in cross coun
try. Seven Tech thin clads crossed 
the finish line in 22:45 only one 
minute off the standing St. Vin
cent record.
These men were: Burkholder,
Cams, Macosko, Crawford, Phil
ips, Keim, and Fackler. Rich 
Schall and Simons of Carnegie 
turned in commendable perform
ances as they beat out three of 
the top five St. Vincent runners.
These two impressive victories 
are indicative of the spirit dis
played throughout the season by 
Techs Cross Country squad. The 
team rapidly gained depth 
and momentum as the sea
son progressed. Burkholder, Cairns 
and Macosko led the team to vic
tory after victory. However, their 
performances often overshadowed 
the strong running of: Seniors 
Crawford and Fackler, Sopho
more sensation Philips, and the 
fast improving Freshman Keim.
Five of these seven harriers 
will return next year. They will 
t,ive the 1965 edition an addition- ! 
al boost to carry on the cross 
country winning tradition.
Playoffs Near 
For IM Co-Rec 
Volleyball
Tomorrow night he playoffs for 
I. M. Co-Rec Volleyball will be 
held in the gym. SAE is cast in 
the favorite role, but GSIA and 
ATO could give SAE trouble. The 
fourth team in the playoffs will 
probably be TDP,- although SAE 
C still retains flickering hopes 
I of finishing second in the Ameri1 can League
SAE and ATO have rolled over 
all opponents in the National 
League. SAE took BTP 15-3, and 
15-3, while ATO took two of 
three games from the Betas. KS 
fell to SAE 15-1, and 15-1, while 
ATO took them 15-11, and 15-4. 
PKT proved a little tougher for 
both teams as they pushed SAE 
before losing 15-11, and 15-6,
| while ATO won two from them 
by 15-7 and 15-12 scores.
In the American League. GSIA 
has taken the measure of all its 
opponents, including a 15-0, and 
15-6 whipping of SAE C, and a 
15-2, and 15-3 trouncing of the 
Grad Nads. TDP practically 
clinched second place by nipping 
BTP 15-12, 20-22, and 15-13 in 
probably the most exciting set to 
date, and then taking SAE C by 
15-1 and 15-12 scores. SAEs 
match with the Grad Nads on 
Tuesday will determine if a tie 
with TDP for second place is to 
result.
s
! TONY'S BARBER SHOP
125 Bouquet St.
Near Tower Dorms 
I Open 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Daily
THE BRIAR BOWL
3725 Forbes St 
681-6045
|XMc-OOa 
'nmhXM.hn KMeh.
A favorite in Canada.
The lip balm selected 
for use by the 
U. S. Olympic Team.
DON'T LET DRY, SORE LIPS SPOIL YOUR FUN-WHEREVER YOU GO, GO WITH CHAP STICK'
CHAP STICK' IS *e. TM 19*4 MORTON MFC. COUP., tNCH#U*G,
' -MSh WM4X 4c 4Mh-n. 
fCc O.c .X-n. . M-nMmMnO.'
PRESTIGE P.O. BOX 397 SILVER SPRINGS, FLORIDA 32683
Please mail me 11x14 Black Sheep .... Coat-of-Arms Certificates @ $S.98'
each ppd. with the following name(s):
Name
When Jerry West
Chap Stickgoes alongI
Be proud that you are an individual . .  
Become a member of the fold of the 
BLACK SHEEP SOCIETY and have 
one who conquers greater odds to be 
successful or is trying to do so................
your own distinctive, personalized Coatof-Arms in black and gold on 11x14 
parchment, suitable for framing.
Simply send your full name and ad
dress (name as wanted on your certifi
cate) with $3.98 ppd. to Prestige S-l, 
P.O. Box 397, Silver Springs, Florida 
32688. Check, cash or money orderno 
CODs please. Allow 2 weeks for mail' 
ing,
<NEhcEhm c,e cEh AeE-. m jMeVhcjM** ehMe-B U 
M*9Mne PMmmn iEML XcPV,(, eMne cEh Y' v' YMVhme, 
ecMm' 3Tym-. cEh 9-chmB U *hM1h M EhMch5 .n M-5 
. -c cEh P*5 -.Ec Mm'
yeh5 c .hc emh' v-5 yc AeE-. y-5hm cE5 
eyhm ey-B cEhn 5mh5 yc&h1h- PmMPVh5' yc 
-9B eyhm m 9-chmB iEML XcPV, 5he cEh gj 
EhM* cEh AMec/
