CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56  NUMBERTLWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1963
Administration Reinstates 
Full Thanksgiving Vacation
The administration granted Friday after Thanksgiving 
as an extra vacation day for the 1964-65 school year. The 
Executive Board of Carnegie Tech, composed of the heads 
of the various colleges and other administrators, decided on 
the change in the school calendar before Thanksgiving,
although a previous session re-4---------------------------------------------------------
suited in disagreement. By deciding before Thanksgiving, they 
removed the bias that class at
tendance on last Friday would 
ave had on their decision.
Dean George K. Brown exI pressed the thanks of the adminI istration to Executive Council of 
I Student Government for the ma| ture and reasonable way in which 
I the proposed student action was 
I handled. Earlier, Executive CounI cil vetoed a proposal, endorsed 
I previously by Student Congress, 
I for a student demonstration. They 
felt that the deans were suffiiently informed of student opin
ion and that the vacation stood a 
good chance of being reinstated.
Members of the Executive Board 
also complimented Student Con
gress on their program to have 
student representatives discuss 
with administrators the need for 
a longer vacation and explain to 
them the students opposition to a 
 one-day vacation.
I These mature actions of both 
MStudent Congress and Executive 
I Council were major factors in the 
I Executive Boards decision, Dean 
I Brown stated.
VOLUU
Govt Supports 
Study in Asia
The East-West Center graduate 
'scholarships considered one of 
the leading grants available in 
Asian and Pacific area and lan
guage studiesare being offered 
again to American students.
President Lyndon B. Johnson 
sponsored legislation establishing 
the Center, a national educational 
institution located on the Univer
sity of Hawaii campus and af
filiated with other institutions in 
sia, the Pacific areas and the 
United States.
Applications for the 100 schol
arships, each valued at about 
$8,500, includes round-trip travel 
costs and a small personal al
lowance.
American students will engage 
in Asian or Pacific Islands stud
ies offered by the University of 
Hawaii, long noted for these fields. 
Students will augment their stud
ies during the most unique part 
of the Center granta three to 
six-months field study in an Asian 
or Pacific area.
Grantees from the U.S. will join 
students from 27 Asian and Pa
cific countries in cultural and so
cial activities, as well as in regu
lar classroom studies.
Full information and applica
tion forms may be obtained by 
writing: Director of Selection, Inggftitute for Student Interchange, 
rTSast-West Center, c/o University 
of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii 
- (96822).
Student Congress
Student Congress will meet 
next Wednesday at 4:30 in the 
Wherret room.
Smiles, Dinks, Ribbons Announce 
New Sorority Pledges Choices
Drive Seeks 
100% Support
Campus Chest, 1963 has offically opened today. This years 
drive will last for only five days, 
Wednesday through Sunday, De
cember 4 through the 8th. Dur
ing one of these days, a Campus 
Chest solocitor will be speaking 
with you about the campaign. 
He (or she) will give you a Cam
pus Chest flyer, a contribution 
envelope and a World University 
Service brochure.
This being the only drive per
mitted on Techs campus by the 
Student Congress, it is our only 
chance and the only time we will 
be asked to give. This is our 
chance to help students through
out the world to help themselves. 
One third of the funds are going 
to World University Service, an
other third to the National Schol
arship Service and Fund for 
Negro Students, and the final 
third will remain on campus 
where it will be used to provide 
grant in aid to a needy Tech stu
dent. The selection process will 
be made with the aid of the 
scholarship office using financial 
aid and campus contributions as 
major criterion. According to Mr. 
Blake of Techs scholarship office, 
this is Techs greatest area of 
need.
Campus Chests aim this year is 
to approach 100% participation of 
all Tech students. In order to 
reach this goal, enough solicitors 
have been contacted so that each 
one will be given ten names and 
ten envelopes to distribute. You 
can find campus chest by donat
ing when he speaks to you. He 
may be your fraternity brother, 
(continued on page 4)
A Phi O Holds 
Rummage Sale
Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi 
Omega will hold its annual Rum 
mage Sale in the Skibo Lobby 
from 4:30 to 5:30 on Thursday, 
December 5. Heres your chance 
to pick up a real bargain from 
among items which were turned 
in to the Lost and Found Service 
last year but were never claimed. 
Among the treasures which will 
be offered for sale are 12 slide 
rules, 2 drafting triangles, books, 
2 pencils, and 1 Bendix G-20; 
gloves, scarves, hats, shoes (sin
gle), books, ties, slips . . . etc.; 1 
tuning fork, 1 clarinet ligature 
cap, books, and one slightly used 
folk singer. For those of you who 
like to take a gamble, we have 
several pocketbooks, the contents 
of which remain a mystery even 
to us. The students of Carnegie 
Tech are invited to come and 
browse around. Or bring a date 
and spend a pleasant -afternoon 
rummaging about the piles of 
exotic, strange, and interesting 
items to be offered for sale to 
the first buyer.
Photo by Jim Pawley
CAR NE GIAS TIUUS ONFNFHLS 
UYRB.ROt
NIAE Sponsors 
Glass Design 
Competitions
Prizes totaling $3,000 in four 
competitions on the subject of 
glass have been announced in 
the School of Architecture for 
the 1963-64 school year by the 
National Institute of Architectural 
Education.
The competitions, which are 
being sponsored in all archi
tectural schools by the Pittsburgh 
Plate Glass Company through the 
NIAE, are a special design project 
and projects in the technical and 
cultural courses on Materials and 
Methods, Structural Design and 
the History of Architecture.
Elmer A. Lundberg, AIA, Direc
tor of Architectural Liaison for 
PPG, in announcing the competi
tions, offered them as opporunities for the architectural student 
to consider glass as a most prac
tical design material for harmoni
zing and relating a particular 
structure to its environment.
The title for the special com
petition is An Underwater 
Restaurant, a unique design 
problem in which underwater 
phenomena present an important 
visual challenge. Specific require
ments or treatment of the subject 
in each of the three other com
petitions will be left to the in
structors in the courses.
First, second, and third winning 
entries in the special competition 
will receive $800, $600, and $400 
respectively. A prize of $500 will 
be awarded to the winning stu
dent in each of the three technical 
competitions.
Photos by Jim Pawley
uNFGIY ONFNFHLS FdOT RABRB YIOL edROBIS nTRA LTR FdOTRRO 
oRgIGR UYRB.RO IAB BNAARB LTR gIUO IAB gNYNFO NE LTR 
ONFNFHLS NE LTRHF gTNHgRt eRgTrO ORsRA ONFNFHLHRO IFR IYY sRFS 
UYRIORB nHLT LTRHF UYRB.RO IAB IFR TNUHA. ENF I OdggROOEdY 
SRIFt
British Theatre Historian 
Discusses Modern Drama
Allardyce Nicoll, British visiting Andrew Mellon Profes
sor at the University of Pittsburgh, will address a Carnegie 
Tech assembly, Tuesday, December 10, at 11:30 in the Fine 
Arts Little Theatre.
'The author of more than thirty major publications in
----------------------------------------------------------?the field of drama and literature
ii 9 will speak Tuesday on Some
f 1/1/771171? Reflections on Modern Drama." KjUVVUljllUH professor Robert Corrigan, head
of C.I.T.s drama department, adds 
that Nicoll will include in his ad
dress some of the trends that the 
British theatre is taking today.
2nd 
Talks Tonight
The second in a series of Colloquia at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology will take place on 
Wednesday, December 4, at 7:30 
p.m., in the auditorium of the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration at Carnegie Tech. 
Four Professors representing Hu
manities and Social Sciences, the 
Department of Drama, the Grad
uate Studies, and Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College will discuss 
the subject Professionalism for 
What?
This second Colloquim, follow
ing the initial discussion on the 
topic What the Sciences Say and 
What the Arts Say, is aimed at 
bringing together scholars of dif
ferent discipline and specializa
tions. As in the first open meet
ing, the men will meet in public 
conversation to discuss a funda
mental question of interest both 
to Carnegie Tech and to our cul
ture.
The four conversationalists for 
the second Colloquim will be: 
John R. Coleman, Robert W. Cor
rigan, Charles L. McCabe, and
In his book The English Theatre
Professor Nicoll has written of 
modern drama: to succeed, it 
needs to do more than drift, as at 
present it is drifting; the time is 
calling for fresh enthusiasm and 
a keener sense of purpose. He 
feels that the cinema art form 
presents a real challenge to the 
future of the theatre.
The English Saturday Review 
has said that Nicoll has the abil
ity to get away from the conven
tional platitudes of the literature 
class' and see the English drama 
as a thing made by many hands 
for the enjoyment of many." He 
is well known both as a critic and 
as a drama historian.
Professor Nicoll received his 
education at Glasgow University 
and Kings College at the Univer
sity of London, also teaching 
there. He is a professor emeritus 
at the University of Birmingham. 
Previously head of the drama de
partment and professor of the 
history of drama at Yale Univer
sity, he is also director of the 
Shakespeare Institute at StratEdwin R. Steinberg. Beekman W. I ford, England. His publications inCottrell will serve as moderator, elude the Standard History of 
The entire series of colloquia is i English Drama, The English Stage, 
open to the public and no ticket is The Theory of Drama, and The 
required. i Development of the Thcaire.
^CARNEGIETARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

-v;
Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 4, 1963
BULLETIN BOARD
Technical
This months ibsue of the Car
negie Technical is now on stands 
around campus at 25 cents per 
copy. Included in the magazine 
are Richard Moores Electronic 
Music, Computer Thought Pro
cesses by Erroll Davis, Mongo
lism  A Study in Genetics by 
Judith Sporn, Annette Gottschalks Comparison of Popular 
Taoism and Zoroastrianism and 
others. All are written by Tech 
undergrads. Credit for the ill
ustrations and cover go to Terry 
Hechler, Art Director, and mem
bers of the Graphic Arts Depart
ment.
portraits must be returned by this 
time. 
wgNLgT i wNBI
On December 18, Scotch n 
Soda will organize a carolling 
party. Everyones invited.
Choreographers will be chosen 
on January 11 with a meeting be
forehand on the 9th.
Look for announcements and 
posters as to time and place for 
carolling and choresographing.
lH mRYLI xUOHYNA
Pi Delta Epsilon will hold a 
meeting to initiate new members 
on Sunday December 8, at 9:00 
P.M. in Rm. 56 Skibo. A conven
tion report and awards will also 
be presented.
Between Classes NF at Study Break t W a
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
y4:3 uC0hxw vixfqx
W W W and W D W 
0Cqex 3t fC0ep Cu xefvc4:3 lxff vixt
eTHOLYR lHgLdFRO
Gimbels portrait studio will , 
close Friday, December 6. All ! 
proofs for yearbook pictures and i
(conti
Starting, Wednesday, Dec. 4 
ONE WEEK ONLY
THE FOUR stirrin<>---
Vibrant . . .
DAYS OF Scorching...
NAPLES Epic.. r
Tu>o Big Hits
RICHARD BURTON in
LOOK BACK 
IN ANGER
presented by WARNER BROS.
683-6992
The Most Extraordinary Story Ever Filmed!
OPEN TSNRV 
EYU2P4 HRYNYPV 
ADu> OoBigt 
sgip soecgaliReleased thru UNITED ARTISTS
Held Over 5th WeekFORVMr 0'S BES AT' SH AD'-
f PHONE Jj
mmm
SO WHAT /%**& J 
ifVF HE LOOKS \
LIKE A V' /
MISSISSIPPI ft
RIVER BOAT 1
GAMBLER! V 1^ w
HE STILL t
HAS %1 L (
THE BEST V;
SELECTION VW J
OF jf
TIES M
IN TOWN! Uj
Iniwratig
Pitt Campus 
under Schenley Dormitories 
3939 Forbes Ave. Pgh. 13, Pa. 
MU. 3-6757
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HAMBURGER & PIZZA SHOP
   
HAMBURGER - 15< 
PIZZA - 10* per cut
  
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMITORIES
(Min. Order $1.50)
Open Weekdays Friday and Saturday
10 a.m. - 2 a.ro 10 a.m. - 3 a.m.
MA 1-7388MU 2-8466
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
Y-rHE ____________J
WrogfHOlUSE!
Hamlet St. Theater
dTEN nPP:$Si1eoe Uo.5 0c(
TAKE HER, SHES MINE
Craft Ave. Theater
WEST SIDE STORY
Tues. thru Sat. 8:30; Sun. 7:30
Special Student Rate: $1.50 (Sat. $2.00)
Tickets at Student Desk and at Pitt Book Center
------_
WALLYS
Campus-Favored
MEN
pqwplqll^xw
bCvux0w
6vwwv8^-
ubC0wpx^6
WOMEN
pqwplqll^xw
bCvux0w
ubvew
m0xww wpCxw
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
OnC&upis
(Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boy 
and Barefoot Boy With Cheek)
withM&Shulman
HAPPINESS CANT BUY MONEY
With tuition costs steadily on the rise, more and more under
graduates are looking into the student loan plan. If you are 
one such, you would do well to consider the case of Leonid 
Sigafoos.
Leonid, the son of an unemployed bean gleaner in Straight
ened Circumstances, Montana, had his heart set on going to 
college, but his father, alas, could not afford to send him. 
Leonid applied for a Regents Scholarship, but his reading 
Bpeed, alas, was not very rapid three words an hour and 
before he could finish the first page of his exam, the Regents 
had closed their briefcases crossly and gone home. Leonid then 
applied for an athletic scholarship, but he had, alas, only a single 
athletic skillpicking up beebees with his toesand this, alas, 
aroused only fleeting enthusiasm among the coaches.
And thenhappy day!Leonid learned of the student loan 
plan: he could borrow money for his tuition and repay it in 
easy installments after he left school!
Happily Leonid enrolled in the Southeastern Montana ColMt k y, M, oitliJtitik Mette ml
lege of Lanolin and Restoration Drama and happily began a 
college career that grew happier year by year. Indeed, it be
came altogether ecstatic in his senior year because Leonid met 
a coed named Anna Livia Plurabelle with hair like beaten gold 
and eyes like two sockets full of Lake Louise. Love gripped 
them in its big moist palm, and they were betrothed on St. 
Crispins Day.
Happily they made plans to be married immediately after 
commencementplans, alas, that were never to come to fruition 
because Leonid, alas, learned that Anna Livia, like himself, 
was in college on a student loan, which meant that he not only 
had to repay his own loan after graduation but also Anna 
Livias and the job, alas, that was waiting for Leonid at the 
Butte Otter Works simply did not pay enough, alas, to cover 
both loans, plus rent and food .and clothing and television 
repairs.
Heavy hearted, Leonid and Anna Livia sat down and lit 
Marlboro Cigarettes and tried to find an answer to their prob
lemand, sure enough, they did! I do not know whether or 
not Marlboro Cigarettes helped them find an answer; all I know 
is tliat Marlboros taste good and look good and filter good, and 
when the clouds gather and the wprld is black as the pit from 
pole to pole, it is a heap of comfort and satisfaction to be sure 
that Marlboros will always provide the same easy pleasure, 
the same unstinting tobacco flavor, in all times and climes and 
conditions. Thats all I know.
Leonid and Anna Livia, I say, did find an answera very 
simple one. If their student loans did not come due until they 
left school, why then they just wouldnt leave school! So after 
receiving their bachelors degrees, they re-enrolled and took 
masters degrees. After that they took doctors degreesloads 
and loads of themuntil today Leonid and Anna Livia, both 
aged 87, both still in school, hold doctorates in Philosophy, 
Humane Letters, Jurisprudence, Veterinary Medicine, Civil 
Engineering, Optometry, Woodpulp, and Dewey Decimals.
Their student loans, at the end of the last fiscal year, 
amounted to a combined total of nineteen million dollarsa 
sum which they probably would have found some difficulty in 
repaying had not the Department of the Interior recently de
clared them a National Park.C* Ht Max HhulmMi
* *
You dont need a student loanjust a little loose change 
to grab a pack of smoking pleasure: Marlboros, old in all 
fifty states in familiar soft pack and Flip-Top box.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 4, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S 
----------------------------------- -------- -------------------------------------------   
Axelrad Finds 
An Admirer
Editor, the Tartan:
I have been receiving your 
fine paper this year and have 
been especially impressed with 
the column written by Jeffrey 
Axelrad. It is rare, these days, 
to find a young man who is able 
and willing to express himself 
clearly and forcefully on issues 
which truly are of supreme im
portance to our society and to 
mankind, generally. Mr. Axelradrad has an unusual under
standing of the meaning and im
portance of individual liberty. It 
is saddening to note that many 
of his critics display an appar
ent complete lack of understand
ing of human liberty which is 
the mainspring of all progress. 
Strong evidence exists that it is 
mans purpose to become selfgoverning through the develop
ment and evolution of his con
science. Exercise of the con
science is possible only when 
freedom to make choices exists. 
Many believe, mistakenly, that 
freedom is the right to vote 
what everybody else will do.
To be sure, the definition of 
freedom does not include the 
right to infringe on the equal 
rights of others to do as they 
please within the same limita
tion. The understanding of this 
definition immediately shows the 
(continued on page 4)
This Week In Pittsburgh
ON CAMPUS:
Graphics as Related to Advertising Material, Porter 
Garnett Graphic Arts Gallery, Administration Hall 
359, November 25-December 7.
Crimes and Crimes, August Strinberg, Carnegie Little 
Theater, November 26-December 6, curtain: 8:20 p.m.
Film Arts, Olympia, Leni Riefenstahl, Thursday, 
December 5, 4:30, 7:00, and 9:00.
OFF CAMPUS:
Syria Mosque, Dave Brubeck Quartet, Friday, 
December 6, 8:30 p.m.
Civic Arena, Bolshoi Ballet, Saturday, December 7,
8:30 p.m. Syria Mosque, Pittsburgh Symphony, 
Friday at 8:40, Sunday-3:10 p.m.
CONTINUING EVENTS:
Playhouse, West Side Story, Craft Avenue Theater, 
curtain 8:30 p.m.
Nixon, A Thousand Clowns, Margaret OBrien and 
Dave Clark, curtain: 8:30 p.m .
Shadyside, Carry On Regardless, 6:30, 8:20, and 10:15 pm
Forum, Lilies of the Field, Sidney Poitier, 6:15, 8:10, 
10:15, Friday 6:30, 8:15, 10:05.
Guild, A Pair of Briefs, 6:32, 8:24, 10:15, Saturday and 
Sunday, 2:48, 4:40, 6:32, 8:24, 10:16.
Squirrel Hill, In a French Style, 6:15, 8:10, 10:15, 
Saturday, 2:15, 4:10, 6:10, 8:10, 10:15.
Penn, Cleopatra, Elizabeth Taylor. Richard Burton, 
2:00, 8:30 p.m.
Gateway, The Wheeler Dealers, James Garner, Lee 
Remick, 11:30, 1:50, 3:55, 6:05, 8:25, 10:35.
Stanley Palm Springs Weekend, Troy Donahue, Connie 
Stevens, 11:25, 1:30, 3:40, 5:45, 7:55, 10:05, Saturday, 
11:40, 1:50, 3:55, 6:05, 8:15, 10:25.
CONTINUING EVENTS:
Warner, Take Her, Shes Mine, James Stewart, Sandra 
Dee, 11:15, 1:30, 3:45, 6:00, 8:00, 10:00.
Fulton, Under the Yum-Yum Tree, Jack Lemmon, Carol 
Lynley, 11:20, 1:45, 4:ia, 6:15, 8:30, 10:30.
xBHLNFHIY
Looking Forward
0RIBRFO 9FHLR
Axelrads Fan Club Speaks
Slt)io gt c(o UlBGtoee
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Tax Bill
Before congress is a bill, proposed by President Ken
nedys advisers, to cut income taxes. Why? To keep the 
nation from having a recession next year (which just hap
pens to be an election year). It can be argued that there is 
no recession in sight, or that if there is to be one, it will 
come tax cut or not. However for the rest of this article it 
will charitably be assumed that the analysis of the need for 
and effect of a tax cut will be as has been said.
In that case what is the problem? Surely it is better to 
have prosperity than recession. After all, during recessions 
persons are laid off, businesses fail, etc. However reces
sions may serve to make just about everyone more prosper
ous in the long run: During periods of prosperity some 
firms become less efficient because their profits are adequate 
without necessitating any strict cost control programs. Also, 
firms that are not particularly efficient at any time may be 
able to ride the boom, and stay in business while it is 
comparatively easy to make a profit. Recessions force bus
inesses to use their resources efficiently or to stop competing 
go out of business. If resources are used more efficiently, 
more will be produced which would make almost everyone 
more affluent. It is true that during recessions some re
sources are not used at all, but if the efficiency of the re
maining resources is increased, and this increase (which 
includes technological improvements) is permanentex
cept for a little backsliding during the next boomthen 
in the long run more will be produced.
Also, if the government is willing to take steps to keep 
marginal firms from going out of business (and thus creat
ing unemployment in the short run), it will probably in
crease the money supply. If the way used to maintain pros
perity is deficit spending, which increases the money supply, 
then in effect the money supply of existing money holders 
is worth less (inflation) unless output expands by the 
amount of the money supply increase. That has not been 
predicted in this casethe increase would serve to stave 
off a decrease in output instead. This amounts to redistribu
ting wealth from the most efficient producerswhose money 
would be worth lessto the less efficientwho would be 
enabled to stay in business.
Another question: Why is this recession different from 
all other recessions? If a tax cut is given to keep the nation 
from having one recession, should there be a tax cut every 
time a recession is imminentor at least a large deficit? 
There are easier ways to keep full employment; for example 
flexible wages, and a more competitive economy would 
greatly reduce unemployment and force firms to be more 
efficient at all times.
There are reasons for a tax cut other than the reasons 
discussed. This article is not meant to be a blanket indict
ment of all such reasons. It is only a greatly simplified dis
cussion of some aspects of the problem that I feel have not 
been given enough consideration.
CARNEGIETARTAN
6RGNFHIY ORFsHgR ENF 2NTA ut VRAARBS .HsRA HA LTR wMHoN oIYYFNNGt
C ARNE O t E INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief.......................
Managing Editor ...................
Business Manager..................
Layout Editor .........................
Assistant News Editor
Features Editor.......................
Sports Editor ..........................
Secretary Editor ....................
Circulation Editor ..................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, In.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, torbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editorial Board: Charles Hofook, Annie Moser, Margie Park. Peggy Riva.
News Staff: Dale Chodorow, Bob Fritz. Callie Gilleland, Miriam Gillespie, Tom 
Glassberg, Bob Griscom. Karen Mihm, Marti Moore, Marion Mulligan, Jim 
Panepinto, Ellisa Parker, Peggy Riva, Penny Ross, Gretchen Smith, Bob 
Wohlford.
Features Staff: Jeffrey Axelrad. Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg, Martha Hodgson, 
Arlene Kadish, Marion Mulligan, Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells. Stephen Yafa.
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, Randy French, A1 Green, 
Chris Macosko.
Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely Philof^ky, Ted 
Pierce, Marion Mulligan.
Copy Staff: Linda Booth. Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Jane Keeler, Mary Loa 
Recco, Ginny Salko Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty, Verna Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarian. Beth Carten, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, 
Carol Karnell. Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino
grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Staff: George Kail, J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin.
Photo staff: Tom Clements, Jim Pawley, Joe OConnor, Johns Osias, Howard 
Schwartz.
Events this past month set another prece
dent for Student Government. Student opin
ion expressed on the floor of Congress and 
through the pages of this paper prompted, the 
administration to reconsider and reverse 
their decision on Thanksgiving vacation. Stu
dents are more aware of the potential of their 
Student Congress than they have been in the 
past four years. They realize now that the 
scope of Student Congress no longer is limit
ed to its jurisdiction over the campus activi
ties, but includes the initiation of reforms at 
an administrative level. With the enhanced 
power and prestige of Student Government 
we look forward to their continuing progress 
in the future. Perhaps next in line on their 
docket will be the discussion of a new humor magazine.
Realizing the viewpoints of the student
body, Pi D E, the journalism honorary, ap
pointed a committee to investigate the finan
cial aspects of creating a humor magazine. 
That committee'reported back to Pi D E that 
the project is financially feasible. However, 
the organization decided that, for this year, 
its concentrated effort was needed in the 
existing publications. It felt it could not af
ford to further screen the campus for talent 
in the fields of writing, advertising, and pro
duction.
A committee of Student Congress should 
take the initiative of discovering if the 
Carnegie Tech campus has the necessary 
talent for establishing a humor magazine. 
Coordinating its facts with those of Pi D E, 
the committee could present a proposal on 
the floor of Congress in the near future.
M. L. S.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 4, 1963
f / * 7 . i- ' .  "j^
-------------- .
Basketball Season Begins Dec. 5; 
Team Expects Successful Season
As yet untested in official play, 
the Tech varsity basketball team 
will display its prowess before 
the Tartan fans tomorrow night 
against John Carroll. Prospects 
for a winning season look good 
with eight returning lettermen, a 
transfer, and two sophomores aid
ed by three freshmen providing 
good depth both under the bas
ket and in the back court. Tartan 
coaches, Mel Cratsley, Moe Fassinger, and Mike Theodore, who 
enter their fifteenth years as Tech
mentors, are yet undecided in 
their final choice of a starting five 
with the depth they are working 
with, but it is almost certain that 
letterman Ray Morrison, (last 
years high scorer), Andy Niedra, 
Sam Cupps, Steve Foels, Hank 
Werronen and freshman Jeff Ka
lin and Ray Burdett will be the 
most likely prospects from whom 
starters will come.
Tartan fans received their first 
look at parts of the team last 
Saturday as the seniors and junSTATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION
(Act of October 23, 1962: Section 4369, Title 39, United States Code)
Date of Filing: November 17, 1963
Title of Publication: The Carnegie Tartan*
Frequency of issue: Weekly
Location of Known office of Publication: Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Location of the Headquarters of General Business Offices of the Publishers?
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Skibo, Room 50, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
15213
Names and Addresses of Publisher, Editor, and Managing Editor: Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Penna. 15213, Mr. Myron Straf, Theta XI,
Carnegie Institute of Tech.; Mr. A1 Pollock, Sigma Nu, Carnegie Institute of Tech.
Owner: Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Penna. ..15213
Known Bondholders, Mortgagees, and other Security Holders Owning or Holding 1 
Percent or More of Total Amount of Bonds, Mortgages or Other Securities: 
None
Average No. copies Single issue
each issue during nearest to
preceding IS months filing date
Total number copies printed: 4,000 4,000
Pair Circulation:
(1) To term subscribers by mail, carrier
delivery or by other means. 230 243
(2) Sales through agents, news dealers,
or otherwise 0 0
Free distribution by mall, carrier delivery,
or by other means 3,700
Total number of copies distributed 3,930
3,700 
3,943
I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete.
MIRON STRAF, Edit
THIRD GREAT WEEK
* * * I
The Carry On Crew 
Is Back Again!
DO YOU CRY REAL TEARS AT COMEDY? DO YOUR SIDES ACHE WHEN YOU LAUGH TOO HARD?
m
m1HI : 
V
Plus World Premier oi 
CORDICS COMPACT MOVIE
Pvf1Cfx uC0 V^fxe^-w,
Filmed in Pittsburgh
N(o ErTU4EYUP
5518 Walnut Si. 682-1901
iors took the floor against bas
ketball alumni from the area who 
risked Sunday aches to enter
tain themselves and a few fans 
who came to their game. The cur
rent team ran the alumni off the 
floor after struggling through a 
close first half to gain a 77-58 
victory. Ray Morrison lead the 
scoring with 21 points for the 
home boys followed by Foels with
19 and 57 alumni A1 Frank with
20 and Andy Komer, 61 with 19.
Eleven of this years twenty
games will be at home with fea
tured visits by Pitt, Penn State 
and Duquesne capping the home 
card. Tenatively, a district tele
cast of a late season game is 
scheduled. The 63-64 schedule is:
* All home game begin at 8:15 
in the Tech Gym.
Campus Chest 
Begins Drive 
For Aid Funds
(continued from page 1) 
the person down the hall, or a 
classmate. When the Tech stu
dents unanimously rise in sup
port of this years drive, when 
the Tech students together see 
the drastic need to help students 
such as ourselves, then we will 
reach our goal of 100% partici
pation.
The campus chest committee 
would like to take this opportun
ity to thank each solicitor for his 
help. We would also like to thank 
the student body for the support 
we know we will win.
If you are not contacted by a 
solicitor, please drop in AH 150, 
Dr. Ellis Office, ask the secretary 
for a flyer, a contribution enve
lope, and drop the latter in cam
pus mail.
Readers Write Co n't.Writer Supports 
Axelrads Views
(continued from page 3) 
proper limitations for govern
ment. Government shall be or
dained to protect those rights. 
When government extends itself 
into the creative areas of man, 
it has become perverted and is 
destined to end, soonrer or later, 
in a despotic dictatorship. Mr. 
Axelrad is aware of this and his 
candle, indeed, is a light in that 
darkness where individuals not 
only presume to know what is 
good for everybody else but are 
willing to force them to follow 
that course.
E. W. Dykes 
Canton, Ohio
Classified Ads
Dance Music. The Leo Alman Combo. 
121-2083. Evenings.
HOOTENANNY!
Learn Folk Guitar
Fred Albitz  Featured at the Casbahand many other Pittsburgh spots  
and in clubs and bistros as far west as 
Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons 
at The Peter Hughes School of Music. 
Call: 731-1844.
All-Pen 
cartridges fit 
all these pens
Guaranteed for
f E(olhhoB
f HlBGoB
f PecoByB11G
f nolBoaoB
f Votue
f PaoBe(lBp
All-Pen
CARTRIDGES
For two-pen studentsfor those with pen-giving rela
tives. Be preparedstart using All-Pen ink cartridges in
our present cartridge pen! 
>ont walk a mile for a 
cartridge. Come in and get 
All-Pen Cartridges.Washable Blue, Washable 
Black, Peacock Blue, Jet Black, Cardinal Red, Blue 
Black and Green.
Get All-Pen Cartridges 
6 for 39c or 8 for 490
CIT 
Book Store
ALWAYS
Make sure you have enough 
water in the radiator. And in 
the winter add antifreeze. Put 
on chains to have efficient 
traction in the snow. Except, 
naturally, if you drive a Volks
wagen. In this case, just turn 
the key to start the engine and 
drive off. Go and keep going. 
This is just ONE reason for 
Volkswagen being the leading 
import. Far ahead in front of 
the rest in performances, ser
vice, and also in resale value, 
of course. Call M. W. Motors, 
now.eNBISrO Best Buy:
*61 Volkswagen convertible 
Fully Equipped, Like new (:y4$M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
WHATS NEW
IN THE DECEMBERATLANTIC?
,hRFYHA5 eTR hFNMRA -HLS)5 A wURgHIY 
45-page Supplement. A border guard 
lieutenant, an East German textbook 
editor, distinguished Berlin novelist 
Gunter Grass and 7 other informed 
observers report on: The Political 
Cabarets, The Young Germans, Why 
the Guards Defect, Writers in Berlin, 
Berlins Economic Future, and other 
subjects. Plus I photographic report 
on the rebuilding of Berlin.
ALSO
,eTR wdUFRGR -NdFL IAB ^LO -FHLHgO
Judge Irving R. Kaufman discusses 
the extent to which the Supreme Court 
appears to have taken on an educative 
function and how such change can 
be justified.
wLNFHRO IAB lNRGO oS5 mdBYRS uHLLOa 
N. J. Berrill, Ted Hughes,
Peter Davison, Muriel 
Rukeyser, Sallie 
Bingham, Jesse Hill 
Ford, Jeannette 
Nichols and others.
The pursuit of excel
lence is the everyday 
job of The Atlantic's 
editors- be it in fic
tion or fact, poetry 
or prose. In everincreasing numbers, 
those in pursuit of 
academic excellence 
find in The Atlantic 
a challenging, enter
taining and enlight
ening companion.
Get your copy today.
WILLIAM E. MARTIN
presents
THEBRUBECK
QUARTET
featuring 
PAUL DESMOND
JOE MORELLOGENE WRIGHT
SYRIA MOSQUE
8:30 P.M.
One Night Only
FRI., DEC. 6
Tickets: $5.50 - $4.90 - $3.90 - $2.90 (tax Ind.)
STUDENT DISCOUNTS 
AVAILABLE: U. of P. Book Center, Kaufmanns, Homes, Lomakins.
......-"J .V - - - . .* V ,
