^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54  NUMBER 25 WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 1962
Dynamic New CFP Initiates 
Laudable Scholastic Policy
UMOCs Vie For Ugly Mug
Dick MessmerJim Wallace
New CFP officers left to right: Sii versione, Bertucci, Reich, Scholl.
Tales Of Tall Cities
Carnival Booth Theme
Bob I*Iercer
On Monday, April 16, the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
held their annual elections. The 
new CFP will be headed by a 
dynamic slate of officers. John 
Bertucci, ATO, a junior Meallurgist, was elected President. Ad
ministrative Vice President went 
to Stu Silverstone, TDP, who is 
a Sub-Senior Architect. The office 
of Executive Vice President was 
won by Marv Reich, BSR, a sopho
more Architect. Dick Scott, DTD, 
a junior IM, received the office 
of Treasurer, while Jack Scholl, 
KS, a sophomore Architect, will 
be Secretary.
The newly elected officers, aided 
by a new group of Fraternity 
Presidents and Junior Representa
tives, have already gotten the 
1962-63 CFP year off to a com
mendable start. The most notable 
achievement of the transition 
period CFP, headed by ex-President Paul Farrell, was the passage 
of new interfraternity scholastic 
legislation in accordance with 
CFPs initiative in the area of 
scholarship which had been too 
long neglected by this organiza
tion. A new motion, passed unani
mously, will set up a fraternitywide program to raise total house 
factors by putting low-factor
This year the Spring Carnival 
midway will not be on the cut as 
it has been in the past years but 
will be at the end of the long 
entrance to Skibo parking lot. Ten 
booths will be placed on either 
side of the driveway with A Phi 
O refreshment booths in the cen
ter. Each fraternity booth will re
present a city chosen in accord
ance with this years Carnival 
theme  Tales of Tall Cities. The 
following is a list of the cities 
chosen.
ATO  Chicago. BSR  Pitts
burgh, BTP  Salem Mass., DTD
 Atlantic City N.J., DU  Monte 
Carlo, KS  Paris, PKT  Mos
cow, PiKA  San Francisco, SAE
 Dallas, SN  Mexico City, TDP 
. Tokyo, TX  New York.
The booths will be judged on 
the following three qualities: (1) 
Effectiveness  the appeal of the 
over-all design. (2) Approriateness  how it fits in with the fra
ternitys individual theme, as well 
as the Carnival theme. (3) De
sign  takes into consideration
Tony Marino
houses on a limited social calendar 
basis.
Realizing that this motion would 
aid only initiated members, CFP 
also passed a motion, again unani
mously, setting up a Pledge Scho
larship Committee. This Commit
tee has the power to investigate 
any pledges scholastic perform
ance, to set up a CFP library of 
materials and people to aid any 
pledge, and finally to take action 
by either assigning work to falter
ing pledges or curtailing their so
cial activities. This committee has 
the active support of all members 
of the Council.
In addition 10 the new legisla
tion, a new policy has been adopt
ed by President Bertucci and the 
CFP officers to achieve closer co
operation between fraternities and 
CFP, and between individual 
chapters. In the next few weeks, 
the new officers visit each fra
ternity for an informal question 
and answer period to better ac
quaint themselves with each chap
ter and give each house a look at 
their new council officers.
Quoting an influential campus 
source, with their new policies 
and leadership, this looks to be a 
very successful year for CFP and
C.I.T."
Les-torKummelJerry NelsonKen Sutherland
Mangled Books 
Deemed Cause 
For Expulsion
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy considers mutilation of Li
brary books or other books owned 
by it to be a very serious matter. 
Students found guilty of mutilat
ing books belonging to the college 
will be dropped from college.
The Disciplinary Committee, 
headed by Dean Brown has issued 
this statement of library policy 
that is effective immediately. In 
addition, Student Congress has 
passed a motion which is now un
der consideration by the Disciplin
ary Committee, which would 
amend this statement to include 
stealing library property as well 
as mutilating it. This action be
came necessary due to the ex
cessive mutilation of library prop
erty which has occurred this year.
Additional proposals now under 
consideration include the installa
tion of a cigarette machine in the 
[continued on page 5]
Pennies Cast For Ugly Men 
Benefit Techs Campus Chest
Alpha Phi Omegas annual 
Ugliest Man On Campus contest, ' 
conducted for the benefit of Cam- j 
pus Chest, begins next week. Vot
ing for the 16 candidates, who 
were nominated by student or
ganizations, will take place in the 
Hunt Library and in Skibo Lounge 
on May 7, 8, 9, and 10 from 9:00 
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. This will give 
everyone ample opportunity to 
vote as often as he wants.
Ugly Man voting will be un
limited with ballot box stuffing 
encouraged. Those who cannot de
cide on any single gruesome pose 
can split their votes. This election 
is unique in that money is used 
instead of ballots. Every penny 
cast counts as one vote and each 
person (male or female) is en
titled to as many votes as he can 
afford. All proceeds will be given 
to Campus Chest, which supports 
many worthwhile charities.
Many questions will be asked 
during the campaign: Was Lestor
really born with the uglies? Will 
Levison do it again or has com
petition grown too keen? Are they 
really keeping the abominable 
snowman in room 136 Donner? I* 
it really necessary to go bear in 
this heat? What hit Gilfillan? 
Where was it they captured Janseen? I thought that Adolph was 
dead ! Is Castro really at Tech? 
But the basic question is: Can any 
of these men exist in the species 
whose development was controll
ed by survival of tht fittest? 
These questions and many others 
will be asked daily during the 
campaign. From here it looks like 
a really close fight, but some one 
must win.
The sixteen candidates are: Dick 
Messmer, junior Chem, American 
Chemical Society; Les-tor (Len 
Lestor), sophomore Math, Theta 
Xi; Y. Kissmore (Bruce Kissell 
and Matt Morehouse), senior Prt, 
Mgt., Phi Kappa Theta; Ev JansL continued cm page 5]
workmanship and lighting. The 
booths must be completed by 4:30 
Thursday, May 10, when Carnival 
opens and will be judged between 
6:30 and 8:30 Saturday evening. 
Trophies will be presented at the 
dance in Skibo.
The booths will be open from 
4:30 to 8:30 Thursday, May 10, 
12:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Friday, 
May 11, 12:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Saturday, May 12.
The Sororities will also have 
booths, although they will not be 
included in the judging. The D.G.s 
will be selling snowballs while 
there will be bean bag throwing at 
AEPhis booth. Tri-Deltas will 
serve as targets in a foam throw, 
and Kappa Kappa Gammas booth 
offers bowling at Monte Carlo. 
Thetas are throwing balls at milk 
bottles, Sigma Kappa plays Dodge 
City-style basketball, and Chi O 
will be in New Orleans at MardiGras time.
Starting Monday, May 7, there 
will be no parking in the far end 
of Skibo parking lot so that the 
booths can be constructed.

---------------------------------------------------

Fa** t  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN - Wednesday, May Z, 1962
Tech Selected Kiltie Concert Band Presents 
For Trial Annual Spring Concert
EnglishClass
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
has been selected to play an im
portant part in a new program, 
sponsored by the Office of Educa
tion, of the United States Depart
ment of Health, Education, and 
Welfare.
The program. Project English, 
will see the establishment of three 
Curriculum Study Centers in En
glish at three universities in the 
United States  Carnegie Tech, 
the University of Nebraska, and 
Northwestern University. In addi
tion, Carnegie Tech will host a 
kick-off conference May 5-7 at
tended by leading scholars and 
teachers of English, school admini
strators, psychologists, and officials 
of the United States Office of Edu
cation.
For its part in the program, 
Carnegie Tech has received a 
grant of almost $220,000 to con
duct its four-year program in co
operation with five local school 
systems. In addition, Tech will re
ceive $18,300 to run the kick-off 
conference.
The project supervisor and gen
eral chairman of the conference at 
Carnegie Tech is Erwin R. Stein
berg, dean of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College and a wellknown communication consultant. 
According to Dean Steinberg, 
The Curriculum Study Center at 
Carnegie Tech has, as its primary 
objective, the development of a 
sequential and cumulative pro
gram of English for able collegebound students in senior high 
school. The development of such 
a program is important because 
many high schools want to im
prove the ability of their top grad
uates to communicate clearly and 
to read challenging material with 
understanding.
A long-range goal of the coop
erative program is the establish
ment of a set of standards for high 
school English which colleges can 
use to revise course offerings given 
to their freshmen so that learning 
will continue to be sequential and 
cumulative.
Five Pittsburgh area high 
schools will cooperate in the pro
gram which will run for four sum
mers and three academic years. 
The schools are Edgewood Bor
ough, Fox Chapel Area, North 
Hills, Penn Hills, and Wilkinsburg 
Borough.
The summer sessions will in
volve planning courses for the 
next academic year and evaluating 
courses used in the preceding year 
with teachers from the five parti
cipating high schools. Each course 
will be tested in the schools for 
a one-year period. Four members 
of the Carnegie Tech department 
of English, Professors Beekman 
Cottrell, Lois Josephs, Robert 
Slack, and Erwin Steinberg, and 
a member of the psychology de
partment will participate in the 
planning sessions and administra
tion.
The program is the first of its 
kind in English to be sponsored by 
a governmental agency.
The Kiltie Concert Band
The Kiltie Concert Band will 
present its annual Spring Concert 
tonight at 8:15 in Carnegie Music 
Hall. The program includes the 
following selections: Second Suite 
in F. by Holst, Pictures at an Ex
hibition by Muossorgsky, Sernade 
No. 10 by Mozart, and La Fiesta 
Mexicana by Reed. This last piece 
is a musical interpretation of a 
Mexican fiesta or carnival. It de
scribes everything from the fire
works and dancing to the church
bells in the early morning.
Also among the selections will 
be two solo numbers, with band 
accompaniment. Un Bel Di from 
Madame Butterfly will be sung by 
Juanita Waller, and Haydens 
Concerto for Trumpet will be 
played by Sue Priestly. In addition 
the traditional Procession of the 
Pipers will start the concert.
Tickets for tonights concert may 
be purchased at the door or from 
any member of the band.
Philosophy Course 
Offered in Summer
Because of several requests the 
following course will be offered 
in this years (1962) Summer Ses
sion, even though it is not listed 
in the bulletin.
The course number is C-765  
Problems of Philosophy. It is an 
investigation of the outstanding 
problems with which philosophy 
is concerned; a study of the fore
most philosophical formulations in 
our Western heritage; and the at
tempt to establish consequent 
standards of sound thinking. Pre
requisite is C-725, C-728, or
equivalent. The course is 9 units, 
with a fee of $99.00. It will meet 
Monday through Friday, 11:50 to 
12:50 am. in A.H. 132-E. The ins true tor will be Professor 
Schwarz, and a minimum enrollit of 15 will be required.
AIGA Honors 
Hunt Book
A book published by the Hunt Bo
tanical Library, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, has been selected 
as one of the Fifty Books of the 
Year by the American Institute of 
Graphic Arts. The book, Cata
logue of Botanical Books in the 
Collection of Rachel McMasters 
Miller Hunt, Volume II, is part of 
the A.I.G.A.s fortieth annual ex
hibition now on display at the 
New York Public Libary. The 
books will also be exhibited at 
other institutions and schools in 
this country, and at several United 
States Information Agency cultural 
centers abroad.
Over 800 entries were submitted 
for judging. The final selections 
include 15 books from university 
presses, 16 from museums and pri
vate presses, and 19 from tradebook publishers. Subjects range 
over history, poetry, biography, 
fiction, and art, with one fifth of 
the books devoted to Americana.
The Hunt Botanical Library, 
which contains Mrs. Roy A. Hunts 
collection or rare botanical books 
and paintings, is a part of Carne
gie Techs $3.5-million Hunt Li
brary, dedicated last October.
Eve Student 
Banquet 
Speakers Name
The social highlight of the year, 
the Evening Student Banquet, will 
be held Saturday evening, May 5, 
1962, at the Adams House. The 
program will consist of dinner, fol
lowed by a speaker, floor show, 
dancing, a special added attrac
tion, and door prizes. The toast
master for the evening will be Mr. 
McKelway, Assistant Director of 
Evening Classes. The guest speak
er will be Mrs. Ruth Ann Ram
sey, dramatic artist, who will 
speak on the topic, Elocution, 
Monoacting, Dramatic Interpreta
tion: An Introduction To The Art. 
Dancing will be to the music of 
the Sweet Notes, and the added 
special attraction will be the well 
known vocal group, the United 
States Steel Homestead District 
Works Male Chorus.
Tickets for the banquet are on 
sale in the Evening School Office, 
Administration Building, or can 
be purchased from any member of 
the Evening Student Council. 
They are $3.50 per person with a 
choice of baked ham or roast tur
key.
I see where all 
banks are giving 
CARN interest 
on savings 
accounts 
now.
Yes, but only 
Union National 
Bank pays 
Interest four 
times a year. 
Means you make 
more money on 
your account.
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
Fourth Av*nu* at Wood Street.. 413-415 Federal Street, North Side 
4612 Forbe* Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue, 22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Fall*, Pa. 
Tarentum  Koppei  Lower Burrell  Coreopoll*, two office 
Cadarhurst  Donaldson'* Crossroads  Bethel Parti 
Cecil  McDonald  Oefcdale
You can banfc with w* by maM
BULLETINBOARD
Graduation Kits
Graduation kits containing im
portant information about gradu
ation, tickets (in case of rain), and 
calendars of events must be pick
ed by candidates from the Regis
trars Office (Administration Hall) 
during the following hours. Wed
nesday through Friday, May 16-18, 
from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 
1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Evening 
students should contact Mr. Me 
Kelway after May 16. Commence
ment announcements and invita
tions can be purchased at the 
bookstore.
Tri-Delt Car Wask
On May 5, 1962, Delta Delta 
Delta will hold its third annual 
car wash. All profits earned will 
be put in to Tri-Deltas Local 
Scholarship Fund. From this fund 
an award is presented annually to 
a Tech woman. Any woman stu
dent on the CIT campus is eligible 
for this scholarship. Applications 
are available in Dean Milligans 
Office.
This year the carwash is being 
held in the SAE-ATO parking lot. 
Cars will enter through the Morewood driveway and exit onto 
Forbes Avenue. All types of cars 
are welcomed, but no go-karts
please! Not only will you have a 
clean car, but you will help some 
worthy girl on this campus to con
tinue her education. So come one, i
come all on May 5 to the SAEATO parking lot !
SILO
Bennington College announces 
the arrival of SILO, a new liter
ary magazine which will be a the
ater for young artists. SILO is 
publishing the work of students 
at Bennington and other colleges 
as well as the work of young peo
ple without collegiate affiliation. 
Besides fiction and poetry, SILO 
will include outstanding philoso
phy, social science, art, musical 
compositions, and architectural de
sign articles.
SILO will be sold at college and 
independent book stores through
out the country. You may obtain 
a copy directly by mailing one 
dollar to Box 99, Bennington Col
lege, Bennington, Vermont. Sub
missions should be sent to the 
same address.
CLUB & CAMPUS FASHIONS
CL UB &B AMPS&FFH&IO ESQUIRES Fashion Director
A few early heat waves have triggered the rush to find something 
cool to get into, and your wisest buy is the seersucker suit. As with 
buying all summer clothes, select it with the thought of also wear* 
ing it to work. Seersucker weaves, made by alternating stripes of 
creped and plain weave, are growing favorites on Campus. Todays 
seersuckers are new in two ways: blending polyester with cotton 
has ended that former slept-in look ... and a handsome new range 
of colors and patterns is making news beside the traditional pale 
1 stripings. Here are some highlights, plus a few other warm-weatheffj 
wearablesall top choice among university men.
The look of a Coach 
House sport coat is 
natural shouldered and 
traditional. Its stand 
on cloth, cut and color 
will easily pass the 
prrists scrutiny. This 
particular Dacron and 
Cotton sport coat is 
$29.95 .Available .in 
solid .colors, .glen 
plaids, and Madras 
patternsone is bound 
to be just right for 
you.
^IjeCoatl) House
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill 
Phone JA 1-7000
OH* Tel*y t*l tkanlsf ereilMi *tH :*
Thistle Price Increase
1962 Thistles will increase in 
price from $6 per copy to $7 per 
copy after June 1st.
Cl

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 2, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
Tech Swings Into 
Spring Carnival
Buggy Race '
The annual buggy races will be 
held this year as a part of Spring 
Carnival. Thus far, nineteen bug
gies have been entered by the 
fraternities on campus. Time trials 
will be held on Friday, May 11, 
at 10:00 a.m. The top three bug
gies will then compete in the 
finals at 10:00 a.m. the next day.
At 7:30 a.m. on Friday design 
judging and safety inspections will 
be held on the parking lot behind 
the football stadium.
Race director Bob Forbes of 
ATO has requested that all spec
tators please remain behind the 
ropes lining the course. This will 
prevent injuries to both partici
pants and spectators alike.
Roster for the Sweepstakes Pre
liminary to be run at 10:00 a.m. 
on Friday, May 11, 1962. The fol
lowing heat and lane assignments 
were drawn at the meeting of 
Sweepstakes Chairmen on March 
7, 1962.
Heat Lane No. Organization
1 2 Pi Kappa Alpha
X 2 69 Alpha Tau Omega
3 3 Sigma Nu1 6 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
2 2 0 Beta Theta Pi
3 11 Dorm
1 28 Delta Upsilon
3 2 77 Phi Kappa Theta3 8 Delta Tau Delta
1 28.5 Delta Upsilon4 2 22 Sigma Nu
3 00 Beta Theta Pi7 17 Pi Kappa Alpha5 2 3.14 Theta XI
3 44 Alpha Tau Omega
1 23 Phi Kappa Theta
6 2 88 Beta Sigma Rho
31 18 Kappa Sigma
7 ' 23 7 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
WRCT has offered radio cover
age for both days of racing.
Plank Jousting
Another familiar event of Spring 
Carnival is the plank jousting 
contest. This year the number of
Campus Chest 
Announces
Collections
The grand total collected in this 
years Campus Chest Campaign 
was $633.83. The drive, conducted 
from March 14-16, had as its 
theme, My heart is in the giv
ing. Following the custom of 
previous years, the school was 
divided into five units: Mens
Dorms, Womens Dorms, Fraterni
ties, Commuters, and Graduate 
and Married Students Residences.
Solicitors were assigned to each 
of these units in such a manner 
as to have every Tech student 
contacted personally by a repre
sentative of Campus Chest. While 
there is, of course, no accurate 
way of determining how many 
students were actually contacted, 
it is known that only 30% of the 
student body gave donations to 
the drive. The average contribu
tion per donor was $0.81 while the 
average contribution per student 
when projected over the entire 
student body was $0,175. The 
highest donation from an indivi 
dual was $10.
All funds from UMOC will be 
added to the Campus Chest total 
and the Campus Chest committee, 
headed by Tom Ference, urges all 
students to support UMOC as gen 
erously as possible.
The Mechanical Engineering 
Grads gave $2.00 per man and the 
girls on 5A in Morewood were the 
only unit to participate 100%. The 
highest total for a major unit was 
attained by the Mens Dorms who 
donated $215.98 with 50% parti
cipation. 26% of the Commuters 
participated while the lowest total 
donation of $31.32 was received 
from the Graduate and Married 
Dorms.
Campus Chest funds are distri
buted among the following or
ganizations: World University
Service, Special Tech Project, 
UNICEF, United Fund, American 
Cancer Society, National Scholar
ship Fund for Negro Students, 
Childrens Hospital, and Record
ings for the Blind.
participating teams has been lim
ited to two per fraternity. So far, 
eighteen teams have entered.
The contest will be held on Sat
urday, May 12, at 1:30 p.m. The 
site has not as yet been chosen, 
but it will either take place be
hind Margaret Morrison or be
hind Morewood.
Sorority Relays
On Friday afternoon of Spring 
Carnival the sorority relays will 
be held in front of the Fine Arts 
Building. Each sorority will parti
cipate and the sorority completing 
the relays in the shortest time will 
receive a trophy, which is to be 
presented at the dance on Satur
day evening.
Egg Toss
Immediately after the sorority 
relays, the faculty egg toss will 
commence on the lawn between 
A.H. and E.H. Each department 
is able to enter a two-man team. 
The winning team, the team to 
toss the raw egg the greatest dis
tance without breaking it, will re
ceive a trophy with a gold egg on 
it.
WRCT Explains Activities During Absence, 
Promises Improved Programs, Invites Criticism
On Sunday, April 29, WRCT 
returned to the air after a threeweek work session. The follow
ing is the text of the speech de
livered by the station directors 
at the resumption of live broad
casting.
Good afternoon, at this time 
WRCT, campus radio at 900 on 
the dial, resumes live broadcast
ing. This is the first time WRCT 
has been on me air for the past 
three weeks. We wish to thank 
WKJF - fm for allowing us to 
rebroadcast their programming 
during this period.
The reason WRCT took this ex
tended vacation is simple. We felt 
that th<* station was not funct
ioning up to a standard that was | 
worthwhile and encertaining to 
the student body as a whole. We 
felt that we were serving nobody 
but the small lot of people who 
make up the WRCT staff. And 
this was true. Also perfectly un
derstandable.
There was a day when WRCT 
sat snug in the basement of j 
Schiller Hall which was the old 
! student activities center. The pror graming was run of the mill, the 
j product was so-so. Then in one
SEND MOTHER A GIFT ... ON MOTHER'S DAY
SOMETHING DIFFERENT .... EXOTIC like Handcrafted Jewerly 
Kim on is  Happicoats  Chinaware  Figurines  Party Favors 
Lanterns  Art Supplies  Fortune Cookies  -Incense  Novelties
10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTS
BUDDHA GIFT SHOP
109 VIeyran Avr , Between Forbes and Fifth in Oakland
short year WRCT was moved to a 
tiny cubicle in the basement of 
Porter Hall. There the station suf
fered and reached a new low in 
morale and prestige. Then in the 
middle of last year WRCT moved 
to the new set of studios which 
we occupy now. When we got 
here there was nothing. The small 
WRCT technical staff, all stu
dents, built everything, every
thing but the turntables and the 
microphones. The control board, 
the amplifiers, the pre-amps, 
everything were put together dur
ing intersession last year. And 
then the big day arrived, WRCT 
was to go back on the air. Every
one who had been working night 
and day to make this thing work 
waited. At nine oclock they 
pressed the button ....and 
nothing happened. And who 
would expect it to? An entirely 
new electronic system just does 
not work perfectly right away. 
And it never has worked perfectly 
until these past few weeks. New 
people have been staying up all 
night to make it work, and now 
it does. How can anyone expect 
station morale and quality to be 
high when nothing works? But it 
does work now. So we closed
down for two weeks and finally 
! three. We retrained engineers, dis; cussed announcers problems, con! cieved new ideas in programming 
and service to the campus, and 
j even found a little time to redeco
rate. So were back, and back 
j strong. Listen to WRCT, you are 
i the audience, we must please and 
i serve you, and you are the judge.
I There will alwcys be these per
verts who mess up the pages of 
the Tartan with letters blaming 
us for creating apathy, ruining in
dividuality, or catering to metal
lurgy students. They wont tell 
WRCT what it should do to im
prove, they just use the station 
for their own personal rubber 
axe.
We are here to serve the stu
dents. Until this point we were 
not able to do this realisticly be
cause we were not equipped with 
functioning equipment. But now 
we have it, and here we are. Lis
ten, support, critize constructively 
your campus radio station. Thank 
; you.
WRCT welcomes anyone inter! ested in any phase of broadcast; ing or writing, and invites the 
students and faculty to visit the 
studios any afternoon or evening.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING
NO WAITING
Iti Bonqt St.
New Hours: 8 A.M.
IN ALL KINDS OP HAISCUTS
EXPERT BARBERS
(jiur Corner Ftrktt and Bouqaet)
to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-996
Career^ Cues:
NTR lRWatacW lR cWheaRW 
sEWlrlWlac EsR osn nih 
elrleaRec ysWat iRmd
TARNIS CO MGAPDUF HNNEF EI ED YDNAKDSE 
TDIYXD HO CuPPDY CImpGSU
Extracurricular activities never really interested me... 
architecture and construction always did. Its a paradox, 
though, because as it turned out student activities gave me 
a big jump on my career in construction.
Studies educated me. But college activities provided 
the confidence I needed to approach the business world. 
Looking back, it was these activities that really gave me
my first knowledge of people, administration, leadership.
Working for the college newspaper, fun magazine, and 
engineering bulletin taught me writing  a gift I use today 
in the promotion and getting of new business. Student 
Council brought the chance to work with other men a 
daily occurrence now. Penns theatrical group and engi
neering shows helped me relax in front of an audience 
then  and help me find my voice when Im talking to 
large groups now.
True, todays heavy college curriculum doesnt allow 
much time for activities. There wasnt much time for them 
in my day either. I burned a lot of midnight oil on archi
tectural studies, but difficult as they were I still found 
time for student activities. Im mighty happy that I did.
If you have time during the rest of your years in school 
to take an interest in activities do it! Its certain to pay 
big dividends in an inspiring future in the business of 
your choice.
Gibson Dailey started with the George A. 
Fuller Company, the largest building 
construction firm in the country, right 
after college. Today he is assistant 
to the president. Gib started smoking 
Camels while still on the campus of 
the University of Pennsylvania. He's 
been a Camel smoker ever since.
Smoking more now but enjoying it less?...change to Camel!
Psra s real cigarette-Camel
THE BEST TOBACCO MAKES THE BEST SMOKE
m pan# Salem tri in*

---------------------------------------------------

4  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 2, 1962
Editorial
A Final Look Forward
The new Tartan staff is well on its way 
to solving the problems it will have to con
front during the next year. Its first paper 
exists now only as a memory. Its organiza
tional meetings have been concluded and its 
functioning mechanisms have been tested. 
All is progressing in the Grand Manner. 
Understandably so, the new staff is present
ly enjoying a period of high optimism, vig
orous operation, and immeasurable hope. It 
is anything but an organization of indiffer
ence like so many on the Tech campus to
day. But how long can this group be ex
pected to perform under such excellent psy
chological conditions?
One of the Tartan editorials of last De
cember entitled Emphasis Shifts to Aca
demic Work, called attention to the fact 
that any extracurricular activity which be
comes merely work for the members is on 
its wTay to extinction. The concern here is 
not that the school paper will soon cease 
from being printed, but that the energy and 
talent now willing to be expended on the 
Tartan by the new staff members will begin 
to wain if their efforts are not made re
warding. This reward for effort put forth 
constitutes the hope of the new staff. Cer
tainly it can be expressed by written or oral 
statements of praise or helpful criticism. To 
knowr that someone, after reading your work 
in the paper, has been interested enough to 
let you know how it could be improved is 
very helpful and beneficial indeed. But what 
is hoped for most of all is that the student 
body participate in its newspaper. Contribu
tions of readers views are necessary to in
CURTAIN GOING UP!
By Christopher Allen
MUCH ADO. ETC.
It is rare that I agree with the standards of Hollywood, 
particularly in the area of Academy awards, and having seen 
Sophia Loren in Two Women, I am convinced that my 
contrariness is justified. I do not know the basis for Miss 
Lorens award, but I seriously doubt if it could have been 
acting. Her performance was what I would call adequate, 
not the powerful portrayal I had expected. Perhaps if I 
had been less anticipatory toward seeing a great piece of 
acting virtuosity I would have enjoyed what I saw more 
than I did. but the hullabaloo about the film created an 
image in my mind that was never fulfilled on the screen.
If you have been told that the film is about a young:, pretty 
mother and her twelve year old daughter who are raped shortly 
after the war, reject the synopsis as being about as valid as saying 
that Ben-Hur is about a chariot race. "Two Women is infinite
ly more involved and complex than a story about a rape. It shows 
the progression, in excellent detail, from human being to animal, a 
progression brought about by the hardships of war. It is accurate, 
moving, and compassionately understanding.
Miss Loren portrays a young widow, with a twelve year old 
daughter, who goes from the reasonable security of a storekeeper, 
to a calculating and usually cold conniver and thief. As the film pro
gresses she becomes more and more like a predatory beast who 
has only two objectives in life; to stay alive and to guard the safety 
of her offspring. This is why, when she and her daughter are raped 
I find it less immoral than it would have been were she still 
civilized. It was not-a sexual rape, but an animal mating. But this 
is the women's personal epiphany; they become all too aware of 
their decline from a civilized way of life, and after all the tears are 
shed, and the anger vented, each, in her own way, begins to strive 
toward that civilized life.
On the same bill with Two Women was another academy 
ward winner, The Guns of Navarone, which was awatded an 
scar for special effects. Perhaps there is less politicking about the 
is another war picture, with most of the cliches of war pictures, 
but with some very beautiful moments, and some truly inspired 
acting. Anthony Quinn and David Niven are superb. Gregory Peck 
is awful. But the story is exciting, the complications are for the 
most part believable,and the climax is a real bla**t* both literally 
and figuratively. For me it was one of the most entertainingvfilms 
in a long time.
sure a paper of variety, interest, and contro
versy. Student contributions are means by 
which campus sentiment from all phases of 
the college life may be expressed. They may 
play a very important role in helping to pro
mote campus interest in subjects of meaning 
and substancesubjects that may assist each 
and every one of us in facing the important 
problems at our age of setting our personal 
goals, directions, and values. They are, fin
ally, an indication of interest and support, 
and serve as inspiration and reward for the 
staff. Constant student participation is the 
guardian against the ever infiltrating apathy.
It is with this in mind that the new staff 
congradulates the old staff for a job well 
done, while at the same time for maintaining 
an active organization. We thank them for 
the encouragement and inspiration that has 
enabled us to have a good beginning. Be
cause we understand the importance of the 
role performed, however, by such consistent
ly fine contributors that will soon be gradu
ating as Paul B. Farrell, Jr. and Allen J. 
Topol, we hope that the void to be created 
next year will be quickly filled, thus en
hancing the paper while at the same time 
preserving the new staff spirit.
As the chain is only as strong as its weak
est link, so to, the Tartan can be only as good 
as the students who contribute to it. Lets all 
help in achieving the goal of the new editor
 that is, the return of a Tartan worthy of 
national praise as it once used to be among 
collegiate newspapers.
H. P. Henderson 
Readers Write
Letters Decry 
Tech Ethics, 
Food Prices
Tech Students 
irresponsible
Editor, the Tartan:
Permit me to point at the amaz
ing lack of personal responsibility 
as evidenced by the actions of 
not a few CIT students.
Let me give some evidence for 
my charge. Recently there has 
been a new regulation in the li
brary curtailing the use of the 
small study rooms after 5:00 p.m. 
because the library staff cannot 
afford to police the activities of 
students using these rooms.
Some time ago, there was a 
rather lengthy elucidation on the 
techniques of cheating, described 
in this paper and practiced by 
some students forever unknown.
What is the purpose of Higher 
Education? Do parents send their 
sons and daughters to college so 
that they may become bigger and 
better citizens, or do students come 
to college to be bigger and more 
erudite crooks  perhaps not only 
to steal such petty things as books, 
folders, and periodicals from the 
library but perhaps to beat the 
Government on taxes someday?
Need I continue with such de
bilitating facts? Do not you more 
moral ones realise the price you 
pay for the irresponsible and self
ish act* of others?
CITs campus is composed of 
individuals of above average in
telligence; or do I stand corrected? 
Indeed I do. The implication is 
that we are a cut or two above 
the masses, but can this be true 
when the degree of moral laxity 
on campus is so evidently alarm
ing.
I will not expound a theory of 
causation because most guilty peo
ple everywhere know who they 
are. (May Allah have mercy on 
your soul.)
The abuse of our present privl co tin wed ok paye 5]
\
Looking Forward
The Division 
Of Powers
By Allan J. Topol
The American government in the twentieth century is domin
ated by the executive and judicial branches. The President and the 
Supreme Court have continually increased their power and prestige 
at the expense of the legislative branch. How paradoxical it seems 
that in a democratic society the organ of government most repre
sentative of the people  the legislature  has receded to a 
position of the second rank.
Our three branches of government have always been in con
flict or uneasy compromise. Each has jealously guarded its area of 
jurisdiction. Yet, the pattern in our era is quite clear. The Supreme ^ 
Court operates as a super legislature. The President has assumed 
vast power which once belonged to Congress. The legislature has 
has ceased to legislate.
The Supreme Court's super legislative poVers may best be 
seen by turning to cases it has.decided which have had the same 
effect as lawmaking. In the famous school desegration case of 1954, 
the Court ordered the integratin of public schools. Since then it 
has consistently urged the desegration of all public facilities. The 
1954 decision has had the safe effect as a legislative status pro
hibiting the segregation of schools. The Supreme Court has achieved 
a social revolution in the field of Civil Rights which should have - 
come from the legislature.
In the recent reapportionment case, the Supreme Court has 
begun to consider cases involving inequitable proportionment of 
state Congressional Districts. These cases have previously been 
considered purely political questions by the court. Yet the Congress 
has never acted to correct the glaring evils. Someone had to correct 
these abuses. The Supreme Court has.
Similai-ly the powers of the executive have vastly expanded. 
The power of taxation has in effect passed from the Congress to 
the President. While the Congress has the official word on govern
ment spending, it is the President and his advisors who make this*? 
decision and present it to the Congress. Likewise in the field of 
foreign affairs, President Kennedy makes foreign policy. While the 
Senate has the power to declare war and make treaties, its policy 
making power has all but been eliminated.
The fundamental reason that the Court and the President have 
acquired this congressional power is that our legislature has ceased 
to legislate. Various pressure groups with conflicting interests and 
often employing collusive methods prevent any legislation from 
passing. The American Medical Association (AMA) for example, 
has prevented the passage of an old age medical care bill for over 
14 years. While the AMA alone could not achieve such a result.H 
by combining with other powerful groups such as The National 
Association of Manufacturers and the Chamber of Commerce, it is 
able to influence public opinion as well as Congressmen. Similarly 
the farm lobby must approve all farm legislation; and the labor 
lobby has a veto over labor legislation.
Not only do these outside groups impede legislation but inter
est groups within the Congress achieve the same end. There is 
presently a filibuster on Civil Rights occurring in the Senate. The 
Senate is merely attempting to ensure the Negros right to vote. 
This right to vote was granted almost a century ago by the Fifteenth 
Amendment. Congress has failed to pass statutes enforcing this 
amendment. Yet the Southern-Conservative Coalition is attempting 
to block the enactment of such legislation. This coalition contends 
that there is an idealogical question of States Rights involved. 
Apparently some of our Senators are not too familiar with the 
outcome of the Civil War.
Yet this is only one example of coalitions forming to block 
legislation. In other instances the Southern Democrats and Repub
licans have effectively stopped badly needed measures.
The fact that our legislature has ceased to legislate has created 
a crisis in American political life. How then may the people ex
press their will? The President is once removed from public opinion 
and the Supreme Court is twice removed. Some day, hopefully 
before it is not too late, our legislature will wake up to its respon
sibilities. It will begin to legislate.
* C A.R N E G I E
TARTAN
Offices: Skibo, Room 50 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone MU 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU 1-2696; Business Manager, 
MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager MU 2-9950; Managing Editor MU 
1-2926; Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
Second Clas* Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National,Advertising. Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: 2.00
Editor-in-Chief ............................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor...................................  Elaine Gjumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Khnke
Business Manager...........................................Miron Straf
News Editor .................................Joyce Holy
Assistant News Editor................................Margie Park
Features Editor.....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor.................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager..........................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ......................................................John Blue
Layout Editor .............................................Allan*Polh>ck

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Mar 8, 1*8Z  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
u!fiiiiiiii!i|tiiiiiiiiiiii|iiiii!ii|ii|!iiiifliiti||ifiiiiii|m!!i!i!||iiiiia
If I Were President . . ,
Graduates ncB 
Undergraduate
By Paul B. Farrell, Jr,
At present, a fundamental conflict exists in the educa
tional philosophy, the purposes and goals of Carnegie Uni
versity. It is my desire that the reorganization of our uni
versity will eliminate this conflict. This conflict is an at
tempt to combine two exclusive types of education, gradu
ate and undergraduate.
On the surface we may call this a clash between the 
humanities and the professions. This is a semantic distinc
tion which begs the real issue. To understand this conflict 
we must look beyond the subject matter (philosophy, litera
ture, physics, chemistry, etc) of education and investigate 
the nature and needs of the one educatedwe must under
stand the student.
We have professed to offer a four year professional 
education, but to whom do we offer this education and is 
this education most desirable for the student?
I am inclined to accept the graduate program more than 
our undergraduate program.
First of all, a glance at our student body, 85% under
graduate will reveal a student who is not sure of his pro
fessional choice. At the advice of his high school counselor, 
the pressure of public opinion and parents, and the prestige 
of a college education, our undergraduate begins his pro
fessional education.
He is also not sure of himself as an independent being. 
This i an important fact many educators tend to overlook. 
The student has just left a dependent environment of 
parents, pastor, drug store, and sock hops. This student 
wants to be independent, a desire that superceeds a pro
fessional commitment. He does not wish to be told what to 
do and rebels against this arrogance and misunderstanding 
evident in many educators actions.
The recent high school graduates need a period of self 
assertion, yet we have forced them into a specific profes
sional career training when a broad educationa search 
of life and for independence is more desirable. Unfortun
ately for us, much of our energy as a university is expanded 
coping with this conflict which we have created. It is our 
hope that in the future we may fulfill our more responsible 
functions as a university, by more carefully selecting under
graduates and graduates on a basis of maturity, and educat
ing them with the same attitude.
In this change the undergraduate will not be neglected, in 
fact our new university organization will strengthen the under
graduate as well as the graduate programs. The influence of a larger 
mature graduate student body, the constration of the responsibility 
for the undergraduate education in a college of arts and sciences, 
and a more distinct separation between the undergraduate liberal 
education and graduate professional education.
In other words, the creation of a college of arts and sciences 
and the expansion of our graduate school is based more on the needs 
of the student than the needs of the university. In the future we 
will develop a more personal understanding of the individual stu
dent, whether graduate or undergraduate. Instead of accepting 
them as inferiors to be controlled, guided and directed, the respon
sibility for their education will be in their own hands. An arrange
ment which will be more satisfying for all concernedstudent, fac
ulty, and administrator.
The emphasis on Graduate Professional' education at Carnegie 
University, with the undergraduates as apprentice professionals, will 
be an outgrowth of the old idea of liberal professional education 
in the light of current trends. Increases in the time required for a 
professional education require this deliniation between the 'liberal'* 
education and professional educationbetween the undergraduate 
and the graduate education.
This is the fundamental conflict our university must resolve 
In the next decade. We must realize the distinction between the 
educational needs of the undergraduate student and the graduate 
student and allocate our resources to properly accommodate both 
as a continuous process at Carnegie University.
May 6, 1965
iiiiiiiaii jBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHll!llllflBin!i!fin!l!;
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
CREDIT-ABLE SUMMERS
TOURS - JOBS - COURSES
No Charge tor Our Services
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
Pititsburgh International Tra
CoH EX. 1-1040
vel
Immoral Techites
[continued from page 4] 
ileges will inevitably lead to the 
curtailment of these privileges. 
And yet people will cry, Shame 
when strict regulation is the only 
solution. Their banner will con
tinuously proclaim that personal 
freedom is the American way of 
life.
And now I ask, which way will 
the world go? Will not woefully 
delinquent youth become parents 
someday, to produce even more 
delinquents into this already 
troubled world?
Name Withheld
Skibo Food Makes 
Undue Profit
Editor, the Tartan:
It is unfortunate that my first 
Letter to the Editor must be a 
complaint, but I feel the time has 
come for someone to say some
thing publicly about the food 
prices at Skibo.
It is my understanding that the 
Skibo cafeteria operates on a 
no profit - no loss basis. I find 
this a hard fact to believe for 
several reasons:
(1) The portions at Skibo are 
barely average; not infrequently 
they are less than average.
(2) It is evident that no food 
is wasted; often times the dinner 
menu bears a striking resem
blance to the lunch menu.
(3) There are no extras - 
you have to pay for an extra 
package of crackers for soup or 
a pat of butter for mashed po
tatoes.
(4) The prices at Skibo are 
about the same as any inexpen
sive restaurant (such as Scot
tys), but the operating expenses 
of the Stouffer Co. are consider
ably less than those of any com
parable restaurant. The Stouffer 
Co. has all their facilities pro
vided for them by Carnegie Tech; 
they have no overhead expenses 
such as rent, furniture, insurance, 
water and electricity, etc., that 
are common to a regular restau
rant.
(5) Unlike most comparable 
restaurants that stay open 
throughout most of the day, Skibo 
is not operative during the eve
nings.
It is clear that the Skibo cafe
teria has a monopoly over the 
Tech students living on campus. 
I feel this monopoly is being used 
to an unfair advantage.
Sincerely,
Birk Binnard
U. M. O. C.
IS
COMING
- TONITE AT THE
5TIIPD
OAKLAND
Now Showing
Ko* Russell & Alec Guiness 
in
"Majority of One"
also
"Light in The Piazza
Starting Wednesday 
'Watch Your Step
and
"Subterraneans"
MU. 3-m2
Library
[continued from page 1] 
Library, and an increase in library 
hours so that the library would 
open at 8 instead of 8:30 in the 
morning on weekdays and Satur
days and would remain open until 
10 p.m. on Sunday rather than 5 
p.m. Second semester nex' year 
would be the earliest possible 
time for these revisions to be put 
into effect providing they are 
passed by the Administration.
The General Campus Commit
tee of Student Congress is also 
considering proposals to help 
eliminate noise in the library.
Schwartz Talks On
Facisms Comeback
Professor Robert Schwartz, His
tory Department, will speak on 
The Comeback of Facism in the 
Multipurpose Room of the H*mt 
Library on Tuesday, May 8, at 
4:30 p.m. He was on leave in 
Austria the first semester and will 
discuss his work there and his re
actions to the present conditions. 
This informal talk will not dupli
cate those he has given to several 
groups on campus since his return. 
Students, faculty and staff mem
bers are invited to attend.
OnCftfQSwith Mat Statai
(Author 1 Was a Teen-age Dwarf The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
CRAM COURSE NO. 4: BATHYMETRY
Continuing our series of pre-final exam cram courses, today wo 
take up bathymetrythe study of ocean depths.
Admittedly, this is not a terribly popular course on most 
campuses. And small wonder. In the whole world there is only 
one bathyscape, and only two people can get into it.
Nevertheless, the study of ocean depths is of great impor
tance. Why, do you realize that the ocean is by far the worlds 
largest biological environment? The ocean has more than three 
hundred, times as much living room as all the continents and 
islands combined! Unfortunately, only fishes live in it.
And small wonder. Whod want to live some place where he 
couldnt smoke? Surely not I! I wouldnt give up my good 
Marlboro Cigarettes for the Atlantic and the Pacific put to
gether. Nothing could induce me to forego Marlboros fine 
mellow flavor, Marlboros clean white filter, Marlboros flip-top 
box that really flips, Marlboros soft pack thats really soft. 
Let others repair to the spacious deeps. Me, I will stick with 
my Marlboros and the tiny garret I share with a tympanist.
But I digress. Back to the oceans. The largest, as we know, 
is the Pacific, which was discovered by Balboa, a Spaniard of 
great vision. To give you an idea of Balboas vision, he first 
saw the Pacific while standing on a peak in Darien, which ia 
in Connecticut.
Even more astounding, when Balboa reached San Francisco, 
he clearly saw the Hawaiian Islands! Being, as we know, a 
friendly cuss, Balboa waved merrily to the Hawaiian and 
shouted, Great little ocean you got here, kids! The Hawaiian^, 
also, as we know, friendly cusses, waved back, declared a half 
holiday, organized a luau, built a cheery fire over which they 
prepared several gallons of poi, a suckling pig, and Captain 
Cook. This, of course, was the origin of Cooking.
EGIS T IU OFSH TLY t
But I digress. The Pacific, I say, is the largest occan and also 
the deepest. The Mindanao Trench, off the Philippines, measures 
more than 5,000 fathoms in depth. (It should be pointed out 
here that ocean depths are measured in fathomslengtlis of 
six feetafter Sir Walter Fathom, a noted British sea measurer 
of the seventeenth century who, upon his twenty-first birthday, 
was given a string six feet long with which he used to go 
scampering all over England measuring sea water until he was 
arrested for loitering. A passion for measuring seems to have 
run in the family; Fathoms cousin, Sir Sol Furlong, spent all 
his waking hours measuring race tracks until Charles II had 
him beheaded in honor of the opening of the London School of 
Economics.)
But I digress. Let us, as the poet Masefield said, go down to 
the seas again. (The seas, incidentally, have ever been a favorite 
subject for poets and composers.) Who does not remember 
Tennysons Break, break, break? Or Byrons Roll on, thou 
dark and deep blue ocean, roll? Or the many hearty sea chanties 
that have enriched our folk musicsongs like Sailing Through 
Kansas and Ill Swab Your Deck If Youll Swab Mine and 
The Artificial Respiration Polka. My own favorite sea chanty 
goes like this:
A girl loved a sailor and he did jilt her,
And she did weep and roar-ho!
Until she found a perfect filter,
And a perfect sinokeMarlboro!
Sing hey, sing ho, sing ring-a-ding-ding.
Sing tars and spars and patches,
Sing pack and box and lots to fiket
And don't forget the matches! 0 Ktt. lt
The landlocked makers ot Marlboro with post smooth smit
ing through your final exems and smooth smokingwith 
Marlboro, of course. Uaee rOU settled back with  Martboro tateigt ^,av  ,, >i t.

---------------------------------------------------

r**e   THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, Ma> 1* MO
This Week 
In Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2
PickRoosevelt Hotel, 6:00, Dinner meeting of the En
gineering Management Division of the Pittsburgh sec
tion of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 
U.S. Commander, Thomas R. Rhees, speaker.
THURSDAY, MAY 3
PH 100, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. Film Arts Charles Chaplin
FRIDAY, MAY 4
Skibo, 3:30-8:30 Carnegie Awards Festival
Syria Mosque, 7:30, 10:30 The Biggest Show of Stars
for 62
SATURDAY, MAY 5
Skibo 9:30-5:30 Carnegie Awards Festival
CONTINUING
Playhouse Three Penny Opera closes May 13
Theatre Upstairs The American Dream
Craft Avenue South Pacific
College of Fine Arts, Hewlitt Gallery, Faculty Art exhibit 
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays 
8:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon Saturdays 
closes May 11.
College of Fine Arts Twelfth Annual Student Exhibit 
Division of Education, Galleries L and M, third floor 
closes May 13.
Treasure Room Typography Exhibit by Porter Garnett 
and his students of the Laboratory Press, 
closes May 13.
Explorers Spend Active Easter 
Canoeing, Cycling, Climbing
Steinberg Edits UMOC Presents
English Textbook
The Rule of Force, a new col
lege-level English composition 
textbook edited by Erwin R. Stein
berg, dean of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College, unlike the usual 
anthology is devoted wholly to 
writings on totalitarianism.
The books selections are divid
ed roughly into four groups: defi
nitions and philosophic sources of 
the rule of force; discussions of 
individual authoritarian personal
ities; descriptions and practices of 
totalitarian societies; and the im
plications of totalitarianism for 
the United States. There is a great 
variety in the selections, not only 
in points of view and points in 
time, but in literary forms. Be
sides essays there are selections 
from Warrens All the Kings Men 
and Orwells 1984, a verse-play 
by Archibald MacLeisr, biograph
ical sketches, and poems.
The Rule of Force is the second 
volume in a new series of paper
back readers being published by 
W. W. Norton & Company. The 
first volume, also edited by Dean 
Steinberg with William M. 
Schuette, is called Personal Integ
rity.
[continued fror.' page 1] 
sen, sophomore Chem E, Tech
nical; Bill Gilfillan, senior ME, 
Sigma Nu; Bob Levison, senior 
Civil E, Scotch n Soda; Ken 
Sutherland, senior ID, Delta Upsilon; Jerry Nelson, sophomore 
EE, Explorers Club; Tony Marino, 
junior EE, Delta Tau Delta; The 
Bear (R. Aaron), junior ME, Vulcans; Bob Mercer, sophomore 
Physics, Alpha Tau Omega; Kummel (Bruce Thaeler), junior ME, 
Pi Kappa Alpha; Bob Cole, sopho
more Physics, Mens Dorm Coun
cil; Marty Feigenson, senior EE, 
Tau Delta Phi; Skip Classe (Jim 
Wallace) freshman Met, WRCT 
Mel Barkman, sophomore Chem E, 
Beta Sigma Rho.
The ugly winner will be an
nounced at the Spring Carnival 
dance, May 12. In recognition of 
his unusual natural gift he will 
receive the traditional Ugly 
Mug which holds 3 liters of 
liquid.
The Carnegie Tech Explorers 
Club made good use of the beau
tiful weather over Easter Vaca
tion. Good Friday found twentyseven members on their way to 
various climbing, caving, bicycl
ing, and canoeing areas in 
Pennsylvania, Maryland, and West 
Virginia.
The largest group participated 
in the annual canoe trip held by 
the club. Twelve members made 
the seventy-mile journey down 
the West Branch of the Susque
hanna River, beginning six miles 
below Clearfield at Shawville, 
Pennsylvania, and ending three 
days later at Hyner, near Renovo. 
Friday was spent traveling and 
placing cars at the evacuation 
point. Saturday, Sunday, and 
Monday were days actually spent 
canoeing. Some of the crew 
stopped for church services in the 
little town of Karthaus on Sun
day morning. Camping in the 
open air was enjoyed for four 
straight nights, with all food and 
gear carried in the six canoes.
Eight ardent rock - climbing
Tech Receives 
Research Contracts
Three departments of Carnegie 
Institute of Technologys College 
of Engineering and Science have 
received research contracts total
ing almost $130,000 from govern
mental agencies.
The Metals Research Laboratory 
has been awarded $30,430 for 
Study of Diffusion on Metals.
The research, sponsored by the 
United States Atomic Energy 
Commission, will be under the di
rection of Professor Paul Shewmon and A. J. Moore, post-doc
toral fellow in the department 
from Australia.
The United States Army Re
search Office has awarded a $59,- 
572 research contract for the study 
of Semi-conductor Heterojuncticn Structures to the department 
of electrical engineering.
Professors A. G. Milnes and D. 
L. Feucht of the electrical engi
neering department will direct the 
project.
George W. Hinman, associate 
professor of physics and mechani
cal engineering will direct a re
search project on Extranuclear 
Effects on Angular Correlation of 
Gamma Rays.
The research is being supported 
by a $39,600 grant from the Na
tional Science Foundation.
members of the club went to Senaca Rocks in West Virginia for 
the vacation. Joining the CTEC 
group in this excursion were 
members of the Pittsburgh Grot
to of the National Speleologicial 
Society, and several of the Pitts
burgh Climbers, a local climbing 
club.
Four more hardy souls bicycled 
130 miles from Cumberland, 
Maryland to Washington, D.C. in 
two days, camping out one night 
and spending the remainder of 
the vacation at the home of one 
of the fours parents.
Anyone interested in climbing, 
caving, hiking, or almost any 
other outdoor activity may come 
to the regular Tuesday night 
meetings in Room 45, Skibo,
Debate Club 
Elects Officers
On Wednesday, April 11, the 
Tech Debate Club announced its 
officers for the coming year. Pres
ident, Tom Miller, a Sophomore 
Industrial Management major, is 
also a member of Sigma Nu fra
ternity. Next year Tom will serve 
as Chairman of Freshman men
tation and a member of the Ad
jutant CFP. Court.
Bob Hawkins, the new Tour
nament Chairman, a sophomore 
majoring in IM, also serves as 
President of A Phi O, a Fresh
man Camp Counselor for 1962 
and Freshman Orientation Activi
ties Fair Chairman.
Serving as secretary for the 
coming year is Gail Thomas, a 
Freshman Chemistry major, who 
is also a member of the Society 
of Conservative Studies.
Corporate Executives 
Study At GSIA
Twenty-eight corporate execu
tives are currently on the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology campus 
for the nine-week Program For 
Executives (PFE) which will con
tinue until May 11.
This is the ninth annual PFE, 
sponsored by the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration and 
the participants come from four
teen states, the District of Colum
bia, and N. Vancover, B.C., Can
ada.
The Program is designed for 
mature executives who have de
monstrated strong potential for 
general management responsibili
ties. The Programs objectives are 
to help such men develop an an
alytical, company-wide approach 
to management problems; to deep
en their understanding of managem e n t responsibilities, and to 
sharpen their awareness of the 
important economic and political 
forces which provide the environ
ment for management decisions.
To implement these objectives, 
six major courses will be offered 
in an integrated program. All 
courses are taught by regular 
members of the Graduate School
of Industrial Administration fac
ulty. The six courses are Business 
Policy, Human Relations and Ad
ministration, Labor and Manage
ment Problems, Quantitative Tools >vfor Managerial Decision-Making 
and Control, Business in the 
Changing Environment, and Ideas, 
Change and the Corporation.
In addition, the Business Decis
ion Game, specially designed by 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, supplements the 
work of the Business Policy 
course. This game is played with 
the aid of a high speed electronic , 
computer and pits against each*? 
other small groups of participants, 
acting as the top managements of 
competing firms. This innovation, 
simulating the conditions of de
cision-making in actual business 
operations, offers special benefits 
in top management training 
through the concentrated experi
ence it provides in business de
cision-making under competitive 
pressures.
Since the start of the Program#! 
For Executives in 1954, approxi
mately 230 executives from many 
leading corporations have parti
cipated in the Program.
GIV& P&I T MSIATG& FSI APIING MTINIVTH
Alfred Travis Flower Shop
MA. 1-4330
Discounts to Students  Flowers for All occasions.
3524 Fifth Ave. Oakland Pittsburgh 13, Pa.if
U. M. O. C. 
IS
COMING
CLASSIFIED
PROFESSIONAL TYPING  HA. 
1-1456. On electric typewriter, 
reasonable rates. Themes, Theses, 
Manuscripts, Term Papers, Appli
cations, etc. Punctuation and 
spelling errors corrected._________
TYPING DONE AT HOME. Rates 
per page or per thousand words. 
Call Margie EL. 1-1764.___________
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE 
WANTED to sell merchandise to 
Fraternities and Sororities. Nation
al company. Good Commission. 
Write LRC Box 7832 Philadelphia, 
Pa.
DSN'T C& T C&TAT
dragging your winter 
clothes back home
It just doesnt make sense to go through all the fuss and 
bother, and expense, of taking your winter clothes 
home. Youll only have to repeat the process when you 
return, come Fall!
Play it smart and safe. Store your garments with us 
the economical Box Storage way! Our jumbo box holds 
up to 25 garments. Simply fill it with such wearables 
as woolen skirts, shirts, slacks, sweaters, jackets. Well 
do the rest  dry-cleaning, storing, insuring every
thing, and pressing every item right before delivery in 
the Fall!
Our Convenient BOX STORAGE 
costs You less than 2c a day!
SF CUID&N
L *
Costs you only a penny or two a day plus the standard drycleaning charge which you'd pay, anyway! Nothing to pay 'till Fall!
The folks back home will be mighty glad for the extra closet space. Call or see us about using our Box Storage
CAMPUS CLEANERS 4909 FORBES ST.
Open DailY 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.MU. 1-1288

---------------------------------------------------

ftim iht URlratclWn Ahio 
MSSH WTAP & W&TI AUITA
'\These good-looking, practical suits, made 
Son our exclusive models, will serve you 
well for school now...for travel in 
Summer.;
JDacron Polyester and Cotton Poplins in 
Jan} Olive or Dark Olivey $40 
Dacron Polyester and Cotton Cord Suits in 
Blue-and-White and Grey-and-White> $40 
Dacron Polyester and Orion Acrylic Suits' 
in Glenurquhart Plaids, $47.50
Also Dacron Polyester and 
Worsted Tropicals, $60
|gtn* Furnishings, flats if$ho<
600 SMITHFIELD AVE* COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA. 
NEW YORK * BOSTON' * CHICAGO  LOS ANCELES  SaN FRANCISCO
mm
S n S Rehearsals Get Polishing 
For Performances On May 7-10
(<*
Now in its final week of re
hearsals, the cast of Scotch n 
Sodas Viv is polishing dia
logue and musical numbers for 
it's performances - May 7, 8, 9 
and 10.
Kathy Escott, as Vivian LaTour, 
is shown above surrounded by the 
four men in her life. They are 
Ken Mateka, who plays Warren 
Tracy, a young movie director; 
and Bill Reinfeld, Sheldon Kap
lan, and Jim Val, her three exhusbands.
In Vivs employ are Pearl 
Quince, a tough but tender secre
tary who calls herself Vivs cry
ing towel; Millicent Hotchkiss, 
a loveable, scatterbrained hair
dresser; and Scotty Buzzell, a 
lazy, bumbling press agent.
The role of Pearl will be played 
by Laura Feldman, a freshman 
music student. Pat Duncan and 
Richard Moore, also freshmen mu
sic majors are cast as Millicent 
and Scotty.
Also prominent in Vivs com
plicated life is Raymond Capland, 
a rich movie producer, played 
by Steve Harr, a Senior IM.
Figuring into Vivs social world 
are Bebe St. Claire, a New York 
dowager, and Monica Del Mar, a 
rival actress. Regina Ress, sopho
more year humanities major, and 
Adina Rosenfeld, sophomore gen
eral studies, are cast as Bebe and 
Monica.
Featured in the cast is Ara 
Schelsi, sophomore general stud
ies major, who portrays the Head 
Waitress of the Balalaka Restaurent  the scene of the Russian 
Dance, one of the shows best 
numbers.
Backing up the leads is a high
ly talented chorus. Included are 
Ruth Kibler, senior P&D; Sandy 
Stone, sophomore music; Carole 
Haber, Sue Godin and Karen Valen, sophomore humanities majors; 
Sandy Perellis, senior P&D; Car
ol Ski oven, freshman music; and 
Peggy Riva and Wendy Bers, 
sophomore business studies ma
jors.
The men in the chorus include 
Neal Huguley, sophomore music; 
Ned Garnhart, sophomore P&D; 
Bill Carlson, senior chemical en
gineer; Ken Tuma, junior music; 
Dale Kubancek, freshman P&D;
Rehearsal of Balalaika Restaurant scene shows young director at 
left, Ken Mateka, and Viv, Kathy Escott remaining' aloof to the 
furious dance of her three ex-husbands. They are, left to right, Bill 
Reinfeld, Sheldon Kaplan, and Jim Val.
Marty Feigenson, senior EE; and 
Bruce Young, junior music ma
jor.
Rehearsals have kept the cast 
busy every night for the past sev
eral weeks, beginning at 7:00 
p.m. and often continuing to as 
late as midnight.
Last Sunday they recorded the 
musical numbers for a record al
bum, which can be ordered at 
the show.
Tickets are on sale in front of
Skibo every day from 11:30 to 
1:30. Admission is $2.00 Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday eve
nings, and $2.25 for Thursday 
evening.
In the opinion of the nearly 
100 people connected with the 
show, and those who have known 
Scotch n Soda productions 
through the years. Viv prom
ises to be the most exciting, most 
colorful, most lively show in 
many years.
For Shoes See   
WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night 'till 9 P.M.
SIC FLICS
WM#, May % IMS  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  F**e 9
U. M. O. C. 
IS COMING
CARNIVAL
MERCHANDISE
Complete Selection of Merchandise 
For Your Spring Carnival
 PLUSH TOYS  NOVELTY HATS
 BALLOONS CANES
 GIVE-AWAYS  GLASSWARE
 ALMOST ANY ITEM YOU MAY NEED TO 
MAKE YOUR BOOTH A SUCCESS
JSPN ISCCINA MSB
1801 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa.
GRant 1-7548
TARNI SCORM CG PDSMDCU FHCME 
YH KRNI GMXwDIdXGG, MCGG KRUg.
hjj |KING 
^GAI^ETTES
UGGCT? o MVCftS TOBACCO CO.
21 GI&TT TSCTMMSA MTK& 2U WSND&IFUH AMSK&AmAGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY

---------------------------------------------------

rag S  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. May 2, 1962
Communists Claim Increasing 
Collegiate Enthusiasm, Support
The Commu nits Party is mak
ing important gains on college 
campuses in the United States. 
This statement was made by Com
munist leaders at a recent national 
convention that concluded with 
this declaration: Our participa
tion in (young Americans) strug
gles will help unite youth against 
the enemy of allmonopoly cap
ital.
The F.B.I. says chis declaration 
and ensuing activities of the Amer
ican Communist Party constitute a
Red revival at colleges. Cartha 
De Loach, assistant director of the 
F.B.I. states, since the conven
tion. the Communists have been 
increasingly ambitious in their de
signs on youth. DeLoach lists the 
following as specific Communist 
programs directed toward the 
campus: 1) An intensive speech 
campaign. 2) A new national pub
lication, New Horizons for 
Youth, printed under the auspices 
of the National Communist Party 
Youth Director. 3) A special youth 
committeeone organized to win 
support for Communist causes 
among broad segments of our col
lege population.
Red posters and literature. The 
F.B.I. states: Students, a prime 
target of Communists, have helped 
topple governments around the 
world. Communists are going all 
out to ready the U.S. for a similar 
fate. Most disturbing is that many 
student groups in the U.S. are to
tally unaware of the extent to 
which they can be victimized and 
exploited by the Communists who 
twist idealistic concepts to snare 
young college students who find it 
hard to resist fighting for a 
cause.* 
Trans- World College Information
ANIGANSThe halo around Rus
sian education lost some of its 
luster with the report that Soyiet 
authorities have uncovered a ring 
of professional exam-takers. It 
has been revealed that one wealthy 
family paid over $17,000 to examtaking experts who succeeded in 
getting their son accepted to a 
top university. Other parents in
volved in the case justified their 
actions by claiming many Russian 
high schools are so backward that 
graduates are at a hopeless dis
advantage when it comes to tak
ing college admittance tests.
GOING A.P.E. (An American
in Paris in Education)  The 
American College in Paris, the first 
private U. S. college to be estab
lished in Europe, opens its doors 
this September. Only the chil
dren of American families resid
ing in Europe, as well as a limited 
number of foreign students, will 
be accepted. The selection of the 
first student body, will be com
pleted early this summer. The 
college was founded by leading 
members of the American commu
nity living in Paris.
GRIDIRON CAPITAL GAINS 
Salaries of college faculty mem
bers are rising but they still are
not up to the level of the head 
football coach. While the average 
campus football mentor makes 
$8,500 yearly, the average faculty 
salary is only $7,500. A few lead
ing coaches ( with salaries in ex
cess of $20,000 make more money 
than many college presidents!
PARENTAL PHILANDERING 
A University of Wisconsin stu
dent, making a study of juvenile 
delinquency, states that he tele
phoned 12 homes at 9 p.m. to ask 
parents if they knew where their 
children were. The result: seven 
of the calls were answered by 
children who had no idea where 
their parents were.Get Lucky
the taste to start with...the taste to stay with
The F.B.I. draws a moral from 
this Communist campaign which 
also includes promoting student 
uprisings in the form of mob vio
lence, subversion through peace 
campaigns; and a constant flood of
SC Reviews 
Campus Issues
oull rate with 
your date...
For a meal or just a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
tatel Wefwte/u UoM
441 s rm m+yt+Jf, *.V7T0S______
At the April 25 meeting, Stu
dent Congress committee mem
bers reported on the following 
items of current interest to the 
student body: cafeteria music,
Skibo lobby exhibits, the parking 
situation, the Society for Conser
vative Studies, and the coming 
election of Student Congress offi
cers.
A poll taken by WRCT revealed 
that the music in the cafeteria and 
snack-bar is generally appreci
ated by campus members. The 
radio station will continue in its 
attempts to make the music ac
ceptable to as many as possible.
Two more exhibits have been 
planned for display in Skibo lobby. 
The Graphic Arts exhibit is cur
rently being shown, and Tech will 
soon receive, from the Smithson
ian Institute, an exhibit on The 
Frontiers of Science.
The parking situation is cur
rently being investigated by that 
committee, and movements toward 
improvements are in process.
The Society for Conservative 
Studies has been officially recog
nized by Student Congress as a 
campus organization and will un
dergo a probationary period of 
one year.
May 9 is the official date for the 
nomination of new Student Con
gress officers and for the election 
of Chairman and Vive-Chairman 
of that organization.
All old and new members of 
Student Congress are urged to at
tend the meeting on May 9, to 
elect the new Chairman and ViceChairman.
What makes Lucky Strike the favorite regular cigarette of college smokers? Fine-tobacco taste. 
The taste of a Lucky is great to start with, and it spoils you for other cigarettes. Thats why 
Lucky smokers stay Lucky smokers. So, get the taste youll want to stay with. 6et Lucky today.
9HT tftf/lr m 11 Hit

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 2. 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 
Technical Names New Staff Heads
Heading the Carnegie Technicals 1962-63 siaff is Marilyn j 
Miller, a Junior Math major. She earned the job of Editor 
through three years of able service to the publication. In her 
sophomore year, Marilyn was copy editor, and this past 
year she served as Editorial Director. In addition to the 
Technical, Marilyn has also been active in other school or
ganizations. She has been elected to membership in two 
honoraries, Pi Delta Epsilon, the national journalistic honor
ary, and Phi Tau Gamma, the Junior Womens honorary. She 
is also on the Student Court, the* ~
Court of Appeals, is a member of Students Display
Graphic Arts
Student Congress, and is ' past 
president of the Debating Union.
In charge of articles for the 
Technical will be Larry Littman 
and Elaine Vezzani, the Editorial 
Directors. A Junior Business ma
jor, Elaine has been features ed
itor for the past two years. She 
is also a member of Chi Omega
and Phi Tau Gamma, and is VicePresident of Pi Delta Epsilon. 
Larry is a sophomore metallurgist, 
who previously was Public Rela
tions Director. His activities in
clude membership in Pi Delta 
Epsilon, Beta Sigma Rho, and the 
Metals Club.
Chris Jernstedt, a Junior E.E. 
worked his way up to Managing 
Editor from Production head, the 
job he held this year. Chris has 
been honored by membership in 
Pi Delta Epsilon; Tau Beta ^i, the 
national engineering honorary'- 
Phi Kappa Phi, the national scho
lastic honorary; Eta Kappa Nu, 
the Electric Engineering Honor
ary; Delta Skull and Scimitars, of 
which he was president. He has 
also served on the Assembly 
Committee for four years, was 
chairman of Orientation Week, 
and represented Beta Theta Pi in 
C.F.P.
Ev Janssen, the new Business 
Manager served the Technical as 
Advertising Manager last year. In 
his job as Business Manager, he 
will also be in charge of adver
tising and circulation. Ev is also 
a member of Student Congress 
and is a freshman camp coun
selor.
UMOC IS 
COMING
BUSHED?
STAY 
AWAKE'
TAKE
ALERTNESS
CAPSULES
Combat fatigue almost im
mediately. Keeps you alert 
and fuH of pep for hour after 
hour, after hour.
Continuous Action Capsules. 
Completely safe 
Non-habK forming
NO PRCSCmPTION NEEDEDA*. ' 
An exhibition of work by sopho
mores, juniors, and seniors in the 
department of graphic arts at Car
negie Institute of Technology is 
to be on display April 27 to May 
6 in the Skibo Gallery on the Car
negie Tech campus.
The exhibit includes student 
ideas in practically all areas of 
graphic arts in the fields of ad
vertising design, promotional pos
ter design, album jacket design, 
typography, calligraphy, photogra
phy, and illustrated television 
commercials.
The Gallery is open every day, 
from 7:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Mon
day through Saturday, and from 
10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. on Sunday.
SnS Work Increases Frantic Pace, 
Assembles New Stage, Rigs Lights
Last weekend the Skibo Ball
room was the scene of furious 
activity. The event was the as
sembling of Scotch n Sodas new 
portable four-level stage. A dozen 
man crew, headed by Technical 
Director Ed Kant, went sleepless 
during the ordeal. Senior archi
tects Ed Jacobson and Carl Piekarski, who designed the stage, 
supervised the work.
The assemblage was followed 
by the obtaining and rigging of a 
complex lighting system. In the 
early hours of last Sunday morn
ing, members of the crew col
lected 2500 pounds of lighting 
equepment from various storage 
places in Pittsburgh.
Then the Lighting Crew moved 
in to assemble and rig this system. 
The work was done under the di
rection of Lighting Designer, 
Karen Seanor and Crew Head, 
Bill Boag.
At the same time, in Thistle 
Hall, Construction Crew under 
George Sibley, Paint Crew under 
Sue Gronich, and Prop and Cos
tume Crews worked diligently to 
complete their contributions to 
the theTechnical Director Ed Kant, throwing: rope, leads stage crew in tion. Fannie Midglev, Set De
rigging curtain tracks. They are standing on the then partially signer, supervised and co-ordiassembled new SnS stage. The time 4:30 Sunday morning. nated their work.
-nigkuMxjA...of electric power
This is Pennsylvania's highway system of electric 
power . . . ready for any demand or any emergency. 
The lines charted on this map are part of the great 
electric grid that covers the nation, connecting the 
facilities of more than 100 in vest or-owned elec
tric companies.
This vast network of power is a reality today 
because the forward-looking, business-managed 
electric industry planned it that way. And now, even 
greater facilities are under construction or on the 
drawing boards, to secure the nation's power future 
for many years ahead.
Over the next 20 years electric utility companies 
will be spending more than $143 billion for con
struction of facilities. This money will come, not 
from taxes but from voluntary investment by indi
viduals who have faith in the performance of an 
industry which has always been ready to meet all 
power demands . . . which has continuously con
tributed to a higher standard of living at progres
sively lower cost.
PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
20 hnkpomdmmt, lvi#or-Owm^
Bmcfrk Comparu** of Pommytvamim

---------------------------------------------------

Page 1#  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 2, 1962
p@IT[5>lhaJ
No! But scientists and engineers 
at Ford's research and scientific 
labs do deal in perpetual notions 
and they have more than a fev^ 
about what might be common*( 
place in the future, some of them, 
just as startling.
Studies at Ford involving new 
energy sources and improved, 
materials may help bring jet-' 
propelled cars with gyro stabili-j 
zers... automatic driving controls 
... flying automobiles and wheel-j 
less vehicles that glide on a 
cushion of air . . . vehicles pro*] 
pel led by atomic energy... plastics 
with the strength of conventional 
metals ... adhesives that replace 
welding ... radar and other elec-| 
tronic controls to assist or replace 
the driver in many situations.
Basic studies in these and other 
fields are just part of a continuing 
program of progress aimed at, 
reinforcing Fords leadership) 
through scientific research and 
engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan; ? : * I
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAO  THE FAR 
 INDUSTRY  AND THK AC Of SPACK
Ben Pontano races ahead as Tech wins mile relay.
After whipping W&J and Indi
ana State to run its record to 4-0, 
the Carnegie track team suffered 
its first defeat at the hands of 
Grove City, WPC champs. The 
Grovers pulled the meet out of 
the fire in the last event. With the 
score tied, 61-61, Grove City swept 
all three places in the javelin to 
emerge victorious, 70-61. Though 
Tech took ten first places in fif
teen events, the Grove City squad 
displayed strong depth, taking 
most of the second and third 
places along with their five firsts.
More than anything, this defeat 
should spur on the CIT team to 
seek revenge at the WPC meet 
on May 19. A number of bad 
breaks hurt the Tartans in the 
Grove City meet. Joe Thomas 
was leading the field in the 120 
high hurdles when he tripped on 
the last hurdle, permitting Grove 
City to take first and second. In 
the 220 iow-hurdles, Rick Rogers, 
Techs best low-hurdler, pulled 
up lame after 80 yards, prevent
ing Tech from sweeping the event. 
Tom Terpack, who had missed the 
W&J and Indiana meets because 
of a sprained ankle, started the 
440 only to pull out after 300 
yards when his ankle again gave 
out. In all fairness, Grove City 
also suffered a bad break when 
their leading low-hurdler, Mahaffey, could not run because of a 
sprained ankle.
Andy Niedra gave the best per
formance of his career in winning 
the 880 and anchoring the milerelay team to its fifth victory. 
Niedra, pushed by Shockey of 
Grove City, came within .1 sec
ond of breaking the school record 
with a time of 1:59.5. In the milerelay, Niedra was given a three 
yard lead going into the last leg. 
Dennis Gary, Hank Werronen and 
Ken Matejka performed beauti
fully in the first three laps. Run
ning against Niedra was Dave 
York, probably the best quart ermiler in the district. York tried 
three times to pass Niedra, only 
to be denied and Andy doggedly 
held the lead to cross the tape 
the winner.
Tech had previously beaten 
W&J by the score of 77-54, and 
had trounced highly rated Indiana 
State, 85% to 45 %. Tech will not 
run again at home until May 8, 
when Westminster will be the foe. 
Geneva and Allegheny are next on 
the schedule, both away.
After five meets, the five lead
ing scorers are: Gary, 51%: Camp
bell, 32; Niedra, 30; Diskin, 29%; 
and Borofsky, 27. Still undefeated 
after five meets are Gary, 220; 
Niedra, 880; Diskin, broad jump; 
Sharkey, high-jump; Campbell, 
two-mile; and the mile-relay team.
Carnegie, 77 W&J, 54 
One MileWon by Fackler (CIT); 
2. Barvick (CIT), 3 Bens (WJ) 
T4:54.8.
440Won by Newman (WJ); 2. 
Lagy (WJ); 3. Pontano (CIT) 
T54.3.
100Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Browning (WJ); 3. Schwerzler 
(CIT) T10.3.
120HH  Won by Archibald 
(WJ); 2. Markle (WJ); 3.
Thomas (CIT) T16.8.
880Won by Niedra (CIT); 2. 
Ewig (WJ); 3. Rollmann (CIT) 
T2:02.6.
High jumpWon by Sharkey 
(CIT); 2. Tie, Bens (WJ) and 
Diskin (CIT) Height5-6. 
Shot' Put  Won by Borofsky 
(CIT); 2. Hurlen (WJ); 3. Martray (WJ) Distance42-11. 
Pole Vault  Won by Williams 
(CIT); 2. Tie, Heckler (CIT) 
and Adkips (WJ) Height 
220Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Browning (WJ); 3. Legg (WJ) 
T23.7.
JavelinWon by Van Humbert 
(WJ); 2. Goldstein (WJ); 3. McClean (CIT) Distance158'. 
220LHWon by Archibald (WJ); 
2. Rogers (CIT); 3. Beatty (CIT) 
T27.2.
Two Miles  Won by Campbell 
(CIT); 2. Bednarz (CIT); 3. 
Fackler (CIT) T10:22.7.
Broad Jump  Won by Diskin 
(CIT);2. Kudra (CIT); 3. An
derson (CIT) Distance20-2. 
DiscusWon by Lucas (WJ); 2. 
Werronen (CIT); 3. Hurlen 
(WJ) Distance-125-2.
Mile RelayWon by Tech (Nie
dra, Biggart, Pontano, Gary) 
T3:36.2.
Carnegie, 85'73 Indiana State, 451/6 
One Mile  Won by Campbell 
(CIT); 2. Fackler (CIT); 3.
Housner (CIT) T4:48.3.
440Won by Grimminger (I) 2. 
Werronen (CIT); 3. Matejka 
(CIT) T54.2.
100Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Lovelace (I); 3: Crawford (CIT) 
T10.3.
120HHWon by Thomas (CIT); 
2. Sabatos (I); 3. McClean
(CIT) T17.0.
880Won by Niedra (CIT); 2. 
Dufflo (I); 3. Petrone (I) T 
2:02.3.
High Jump  Won by Sharkey 
(CIT); 2. Tie, Diskin (CIT), 
Vandelinde (CIT), and Miller 
(I) Distance5-8.
Shot PutWon by Och (I); 2. 
Borofsky (CIT); 3. Gasdek Dis
tance41 -11 % .
220  Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Horner (I); 3. Lovelace (I) T 
22.9.
[continued on page 11]
Track Team Whips 
Trips And Loses To
f & J And Indiana, 
Grove City

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May S. 106*  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN , Page It
ACTIVATED CHARCOAL 
INNER ALTER
PURE WHTE 
OUTER FILTER
Tech Slams Duquesne, 
Grove City On Courts
The first bright, sunny days of spring brought the Tech tennis 
team two 7-2 victories over Duquesne and Grove City, The team, 
dominated by freshmen, now has a 4-1 record.
While Steve Rothenburg, Dave Tranquilla, George Sibley, and 
.Tphn Jackson were easily taking their victories, Ted Engelmann 
^ctended his win streak to five. The team engages St. Francis on 
the Tech courts at 2:00 p.m. Monday.
?Duquesne  Ted Engelman (T) 
defeated Paul Stockhauser 6-1, 
7-5; Bill Jones (T) defeated 
Schmalz 11-13, 6-1, 6-3; John 
Jackson (T) defeated Mutchler 
7-5, 6-2. Steve Rothenburg (T( 
defeated Elizabeth Stockhausen, 
6-2, 6-3; Semler (D) defeated 
Hershey 6-3, 8-6: Tranquilla (T) 
defeated Fisher 6-1, 2-6, 6-0; 
Mutschler and Stockhausen (D) 
defeated Engelmann and Jones 
4-6, 6-3, 9-7. Jackson and Sibley 
(T) defeated Semler and Con
roy 6-2, 2-6, 6-1; Rothenburg 
and Stein (T) defeated Stock
hausen and Fisher 6-3, 6-1. 
Grove City  Engelmann (T) de
feated Larkin 3-6, 6-0, 6-1; Guwang <G) defeated Jones 6-2, 
6-1; Welch (G) defeated Jack
son 6-0, 6-1; Rothenburg (T) 
defeated George 7-5, 6-2;; Tran
quilla (T) defeated Carpenter 
6-2, 7-5; Sibley (T) defeated 
Lohr 6-2, 6-1; Engelmann and 
Tranquilla (T) defeated Welsh 
and Larkin 4-6, 6-2, 6-3; Roth
enburg and Jones (T) defeated 
George and Guwang 6-1, 6-4; 
Sibley and Jackson (T) defeated 
Davis and Carpenter 6-2, 6-0.
W&J Dashes Hopes
The aggressive Washington and 
Jefferson Presidents dashed Techs 
hopes for an undefeated tennis 
season last Tuesday (April 17), 
overcoming the Tartans 7-2.
The final score is a poor indiyteition of the closeness of the 
Tnatch; all of the singles matches 
except one went to three sets. Ted 
Engelmann and Ken Sutherland 
both came from behind to win 
their matches after losing the first 
set.
In what was by far the longest 
match of the day, Steve Rothen
berg of Tech was edged out by Jim 
Maloney in a 3% marathon.
The teams record is now 2-1. 
{The W-J match was not a con'lerence match, leaving Tech still 
undefeated in conference play.
Singles Results:
Singles Results
Ted Engelmann (Tech) defeated 
Joe Salembier (W-J) 8-10, 6-3, 
7-5.
Art Gilks (W-J) defeated Bill 
Jones (Tech) 6-3, 6-3.
Tim Onnin (W-J) defeated John 
Jackson (Tech) 6-1, 6-8, 6-2.
. Jim Maloney (W-J) defeated 
^teve Rothenberg (Tech) 5-7, 14- 
12, 6-4.
Ken Sutherland (Tech) defeated 
John Dunning (W-J) 4-6, 6-1, 9-7.
Bill Fedrochlev (W-J) defeated 
Dave Tranquilla (Tech) 6-2, 2-6, 
6-3.
Doubles Results
Salembier-Gilks (W-J) defeated 
Engelmann-Jones (Tech) 6-3, 9-7.
Ebbert-Harlan (W-J) defeated 
Jackson-Sutherland (Tech) 6-3, 
&-3.
Annin-Rowley (W-J) defeated 
Stein-Harshey (Tech) 6-1, 6-1.
WRITE
FOR
TARTAN
Bad Luck, Turned Ankles Slow CIT
[continued from page 10] \ 
JavelinWon by Kuzneski (I); 2. 
McLean (CIT); 3. Keath (I) 
Distance163-6.
220LHWon by Rogers (CIT); 2. 
Beatty (CIT); 3. McClean (CIT) 
T27.3.
Two Miles  Won by Campbell 
(CIT); 2. Bednarz (CIT); 3. 
Bowser (I) T10:49.7.
Discus  Won by Stewart (I); 2. 
Stuart (I); 3. Werronen (CIT)
Distance 122-4 % .
Pole VaultTie for first, Williams 
(CIT) and Palya (I); 3. Heckler 
(CIT) Height12'.
Broad Jump  Won t>y Diskin 
(CIT); 2. Anderson (CIT); 3. 
Rogers (CIT) Distance  
20-7y4.
Mile RelayWon by Tech (Niedra, Pontano, Biggart, Matejka) 
T3:37.5.
Grove City, 70 Carnegie, 61
One Mile  Won by Nottleman 
(GC); 2. Campbell (CIT); 3. 
Redman (GC) T4:39.3.
440Won by York (GC); 2. Jone* 
(GC); 3. Pontano (CIT) T 
51.8.
100  Won by Srnoyer (GC); 2. 
Gary (CIT); 3. Reynolds (GC) 
T10.5.
120HHWon by Mi-ewln (GC); 2. 
McDonald (GC); 3. McClean 
[continued on page 12]
It will discourage the otherMSI&O I&TTIN MSI&O G&T C&TT&I GITD&A
Learn to read 300 
to 1,000% faster
with understanding 
an enjoyment impossible 
in conventional 
reading methods.
This new way to 
read will help 
you do better on exams, cut your 
hours of study to give you more 
time for extracurricular activities. 
Taught In small classes in cities 
all over the country with personal 
attention by skilled teachers. 
Classes now forming. Ask for our 
FREE brochure.
* EVELYN WOOD 
Reading Dynamics Institute 
Of Pittsburgh, Inc.
Penn-Sheraton Hotel 
(1st floor)
William Penn Place 
Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
Phone: OOur* 1-5993
"TstanWiR'c Dhsy FlyWat lR ehsc ostWac elrlcs acWm''
says veteran coach Romulus (Uncle) Remus. We have a 
saying over at the ColiseumTSarey ton separates the gladia
tors from the gladioli. Its a real magnus smoke. Take it 
from me, Tareyton delivers de gustibusand the Dual Filter 
does it!"
DUAL FILTERTareyton
fhiH jSymy it&m fK 9ttH
c

---------------------------------------------------

Pas 12  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. Aprii 8, 1962
O Would you volunteer to man the first space 
station if odds on survival were 50-50?
0 Do men expect their, 
dates to furnish 
their own cigarettes?
 How many children 
would you like to have 
when youre married?
? None ? One ? Two ? Three ? Four or more
Spring Brings IM Softball 
Teams Finish Three Games
Intramural softball played through April 25, ATO A of 
the Pirate league pasted KS B, 14-7, Yankee league leaders 
BTP A took PiKA, 6-1, and in the minors, TDP P edged 
SAE G 7-5 in the closest game of the day.
ATO A was paced by little Stevie Foels, who had three 
runs on two hits, George Ciamella with three runs on three 
hits, and catcher Olsen who came through with one run and 
two hits, one of these a homer. Big man for KS was Baier 
with two runs on a homer and a^-----------------------------------------------------------
double. ATO pounded out twice 
as many hits as KS, 10-5.
In the Yankee league, BTP A 
ran over PKT with the aid of 
Thurman and Hyde, each of whom 
had two hits. Hits for the game 
were about evenly distributed, 
with the difference in the score 
being in the numbei of errors 
committed by PKT. Pellegrino 
was the big man for PKT with 
two hits, one driving in Lang with 
the only run.
Many games scheduled to have 
been played before the Easter re
cess and which were postponed 
due to inclement weather have 
been rescheduled to be played at 
a later date. Teams involved in 
postponements should check the 
Intramural board to find the date 
of the rescheduled games.
League standings through April 
26:
MAJOR
Braves
KS A 1
TDP -Blue 0
Vulcan G 0
DTD 0
Dukes 0
Corns 0
WRCT 0
Cardinals
SN A 0
Met Grads 0
DU 0PKA 0
EE Grades 0
Finks 0
Pirates
ATO A" 1
Vulcan W 0
SAE -P 0
Warriors 0
Spartans 0
Dunkers 0
KS -B" 0
Yankees
BTP A 1
PKT 1
Grad Eagles 0
BSP A 0
TX 0
SIAL 0
MINOR
Giants
ATO B" 1
TDP -P 1
Whales 0
SN B 0
BTP G- 0
ATO C 0
SAE G 0
BSR J 0
IM Soccer Starts. 
Postponements 
Slow Progress
The much postponed intramural 
Soccer playoffs finally got under 
way on April 25 and 26. In the 
first match on the 25th, the Inter
nationals edged PiKA booters 5-4 
in the second overtime. Previous 
to this, the Internationals had 
led the Giant League with a 5-0 
record PiKA was the Bear League 
second place team with a 5-1 rec
ord.
In the second match played on 
the 26th, the powerful Grad 
Eagles had less trouble with BTP,
1 winning 6-0. For the Eagles, 
Meyrick and Grievson each had 
two goals and Daushtee and Magnotto had one apiece. The Grad 
Eagles were the Bear League lead
ers with a 5-0 record. BTP fol
lowed the Internationals in the 
Giant League with a 4-1 record.
Championship and Consolation 
games were scheduled to be 
played on the 28th and 29th of 
April. Due to unforseen difficul
ties they have been postponed 
again, and probably will be played 
on May 5 and 6. The Internation
als will oppose the Grad Eagles 
in the Championship game. PiKA 
will battle BTP for third place in 
the Consolation game.
Buy Your 
Thistle
Before the June 1st 
Price Increase
University Typing Service
Term Papers Theses
Electrically Typed
Dissertations Scripts
EM. 2-3261
Frank talk about your hair: Vitalis with V-7 
(keeps your hair neat all day without grease.
fraturally.V-7isthegreaseless grooming discovery .Vitalis 
with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dry* 
liess^keegs ow hair neat all day without grease. Try it!
Track Team Scamper Onward
[continued from page 11] 
(CIT) T17.5.
880 W on by Niedra (CIT); 2. 
Shockey (GC); 3. Austin (GC) 
T1:59.5.
High Jump  Won by Sharkey 
(CIT); 2. Tie, Cave (GC) and 
Corry (GC) Height5-10'\ 
Shot Put  Won by Borofsky 
(CIT); 2. Marovitch (GC); 3. 
Krebs (GC) Distance43-2}4. 
Pole VaultTie, Williams (CIT); 
and B. OHalek (GC); 3. Tie, 
York (GC) and J. OHalek (GC) 
Height12.
220  Won by Gary (CIT); 2. 
Smoyer (GC); 3. York (GC) T 
23.1.
220LHWon by Beatty (CIT); 2. 
McClean (CIT); 3. Merwin 
(GC) T28.0.
Two Miles  Won by Campbell 
(CIT); 2. Kozlowski (GC); 3. 
Benardb (CIT) T10:20.3.
Broad Jump  Won by Diskin 
(CIT): 2. Hoffman (GC); 3.
OHalek (GC) Distance20- 
7y4.
DiscusWon by Werronen (CIT);
2. Folmer (GC); 3. Marovitch 
(GC) Distance124
JavelinWon by Hoffman (GC); 
2. Scherer (GC); 3. Marovich 
(GC) Distance181-11.
Mile RelayWon by Tech (Gary, 
Werronen, Matejka, Niedra) T 
3:34.2.
aiiailiafliiiiiifliiflii
Save Your
Pennies
For
U. M. O. C.
VULCANS LOSE 
TO DUKE TEAM
In a game played at Duquesnq 
University April 17, me Tech intramural basketball champioi 
Vulcans lost to the Duquesne in
tramural Champ Law Schoo 
Grads 56-55. In a manner start 
lingly different from the usual 
Duquesne-Tech relationship, Du, 
quesne provided a player for 
Tech team when Leroy Shaw 
sprained an ankle in the second 
quarter. High scorer for the Duk 
grads was D. Swick, a St. Francis 
High graduate, with 25 points, 
Dobbs of Tech maintained his fin 
form which gained him the Tech 
Most Valuable Player award an<l 
garnered 20 points. The Tech 
team was composed of Lang, 
Shaw, Huff, Gary Adams and 
Dobbs.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
H&M glrac nih 
MSI& CSDL
lR Wha byaReO 
MSI& FHTVSI
lR Wha cmikaO 
MSI& TTAT&
Whtihgh Wha flyWatB 
IWc Wha tlEh-fysrit 
yasf WhsW eiac lWm
CO 033VV01 SUSAN  11)9911 
 MIXH
HERES HOW 1029 
STUDENTS AT 100 
COLLEGES VOTED!
%LZ.................... oN
%ZL.................
%92"-;ajoui VO jnoj
..........
%l.................... OMi Q
%6...............................m
%e............... auoN
%W...................... N A
%9...................S8A V
to smoke.
