N
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 59  NUMBER 18WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1964
Thistle Sales 
Campaign To 
Open March 2
The annual Thistle sales campaign is scheduled to begin this 
Tuesday, March 2. Posters will be 
.placed in strategic positions 
around campus with order en
velopes to aid subscribers in pur
chasing this yers annual.
A first-place winner in the 1963 
3 Pi Delta Epsilon year-book com
petition, the Thistle promises to 
match and surpass the quality for 
which it was recognized then.
More copy will be a major new 
feautre of this year's book, as a 
result of a drive for greater cover
age of campus happenings.
A greater emphasis has been 
placed on sports. With the inclu
sion of more copy in the entire 
book, coverage of athletic events 
* will be more complete.
Faculty coverage has been 
heightened to increase the stu
dents knowledge of his own de
partment. It will also better ac
quaint the campus with the ad
ministration of Carnegie Tech.
Again fulfilling the primary 
purpose of a yearbook, the Thistle 
has called for a greater emphasis 
on the senior class and its activi ties. With this emphasis, a concen
tration on the preservation of the 
events of 1963 and 1964 will be 
coupled with the desire to create 
a lively pleasure for them with 
regard to presentation.
The most significant addition to 
the long list of new features in 
the 1964 Thistle is color. No price 
increase has been effected by the 
inclusion of it, and the value of 
such a feature is self-explanatory. 
> Liveliness is the keynote; color 
will create this mood.
The 1964 Thistle, in all, is slated 
to be bigger, more comprehensive, 
and more attractive than last 
years award winner. The original
ity, vivacity, and creativity of a 
proficient and talented staff will1 
have a noticeable effect on the 
quality of the book.
(continued on page 2)
Warner Speaks 
To Initiates
Carnegie Tech President John 
Christian Warner, at formal initi
ation ceremonies last Saturday, 
addressed members of Delta Upsilon fraternity in the GSIA audi
torium.
Dr. Warner challenged the Delta 
Upsilon initiates to prove the 
worth of the collegiate fraternity 
system.
Recalling his own Initiation into 
Delta Upsilon 48 years ago at the 
University of Indiana, President 
Warner said that the fraternity 
should provide a place not only 
for quiet study but for the de
velopment of the social graces, the 
cultivation of lasting friendships, 
and the furtherance of under
standing and development of the 
tine arts, especially the fine art 
of humor.
Dr. Warner also attended a 
cocktail party which was held 
after the initiation ceremony, giv
ing the new members and their 
parents an opportunity to meet the 
president of Carnegie Tech.
Brad Hunt Entertains During Military Ball; 
Regimental Queen Reigns Over Evening
Joyce NissensonNancy Fieldson
Six Noted Panelists Present 
What Has Happened to the Arts
The third in a series of Colloquia in the general area of 
the arts and sciences will take place at 7:30 on Wednesday 
evening, February 26, in the auditorium of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration on the campus of Car
negie Tech. What Has Happened to the Arts? will serve 
as the general theme for the open* 
discussion. The five conversants 
for the evening will be: Nikolai 
Lpatnikoff, noted composer and 
Professor of Music; Alan J. Perlis,
Director, Computation Center, and 
Professor and Head of the Depart
ment of Mathematics; Douglas H.
Pickering, Associate Professor of 
Painting, Design and Sculpture;
Kenneth G. Scheid, Associate Pro
fessor and Head of the department 
of Graphic Arts; and Paul Schweikher,. Professor and Head of 
the Department of Architecture.
Martin Engel, Assistant Professor 
of History and Fine Arts, will 
serve as moderator.
The present state of the Fine 
Arts is, to say the least, a con
troversial one. The non-poetic 
poetry of Ginsburg and Rexroth, 
the non-musical music of post
twelve tone electronic composi
tions, Pop Art, theatre of the ab
surd, and junk sculpture are all 
manifestations of a direction in 
Art which invites a serious reap
praisal of Art in our culture. Pro
fessors Beekman Cottrell and 
Martin Engel, who have been re
sponsible for this colloquium 
series, intend to introduce the eve
ning by showing slides, playing 
some brief selections from modern 
music and reading some examples 
of recent literature, thereby giving 
concrete evidence of the con
temporary art scene..
The present Colloquium will add 
a third area of concentration to 
the two pervious centers of dis
cussion for earlier Coloquia:
What the Sciences Say, and What 
the Arts Say, and Professional
ism for What?" Th fourth and 
final Colloquium for the academic 
year will center on the problems 
of education.
Chi Omega, 
Sigma Nu Win 
Grade Honors
Sigma Nu and Chi Omega have 
placed first in the fall semester 
fraternity-sorority factor report. 
The all-fraternity and all-sorority 
averages were 2.34 and 2.74 re
spectively, while independent men 
and women averaged 2.42 and 
2.50.
The individual fraternity and 
sorority factors are as follows:
FRATERNITIES
Sigma Nu ...........................2.465
Beta Theta Pi ......................fc
Tau Delta Phi ......................2.46
Kappa Sigma ......................2.36
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........2.35
Delta Upsilon ...................2.32
Alpha Tau Omega ............2.30
Theta Xi ..............................2.21
Phi Kappa Theta ..............2.19BeU Sigma Rho..................2.17Delta Tau Delta ..................2.14318Pi Kappa Alpha ................2.14315
SORORITIES
Chi Omega ........Sigma Kappa____2.83....2.80Alpha Epsilon Phi ...............2.76Kappa Alpha Theta .............2.75Delta Gamma .........................2.74Delta Delta Delta .................2.67Kappa Kappa Gamma...........2.66
Student Congress
Student Congress will meet to
day, February 26, at 4:30 pjn. in 
the Wherrett Lounge, Skibo. All 
members are urged to be present.
new Congress policy will be 
presented and discussed.______
Fraternities Choose Candidates 
For 1964 Military Ball Queen
The Brad Hunt Orchestra, a well-known band in the 
Pittsburgh area, will provide the music for the ,1964 Military 
Ball, which will be held on Saturday, March 7 in the Skibo 
ballroom from 9:00 to 1:00 p.m. The Military Ball, one of the 
social highlights of the school year, is sponsored annually by 
Scabbard tmd Blade for the entire 
student body at Carnegie Tech.
The crowning of the Regimental 
Queen and her court, made by 
the Cadet Regiment, is the high 
point of the evening. The fra
ternity house or dormitory, which 
is represented by the winning 
candidate, will receive a per
manent trophy presented by Scab
bard and Blade.
This year's queen candidates 
will be presented to the student 
body on Thursday, February 27 
at 12:30 p.m. in the Skibo Ball
room. The following day, the stu
dents will cast their votes at the 
two ballot boxes on campus, one 
located in Skibo, the other in the 
lobby of Administration Hall.
The candidates for 1964 Mili
tary Ball Queen ar-e:
. Patricia Glesnes, a freshman 
drama student (acting major) 
from Englewood, New Jersey. She 
represents Tau Delta Phi.
Nancy Fieldson, a sophomore 
bacteriology major from Levittown, New York. Beta Sigma Rho 
is the fraternity that she repre
sents.
Becky Brown, a junior social 
studies major from Butler, Penn
sylvania. A Kappa Kappa. Gamma, 
sh represents Sigma Nu.
Jean Jacobs, a senior business 
studies major from Pittsburgh.
She represents Beta Theta Pi and. 
is herself a Delta Gamma.
Claire Huge, a junior business 
studies major from Lexington,
Massachusetts. Also a Delta Gam
ma, she is representative of fra
ternities Alpha Tau Omega, and 
Delta Upsilon.
Betsy Jo Beckley, a junior home 
economics major from Lock Ha
ven, Pennsylvania. Representing 
(continued on page 2)
Join Mudge For 
February 29
The International Club wishes 
to announce a special Leap Year 
Wine and Cheese Party. In honor 
of the long and noble tradition of 
Leap Year, women will be ad
mitted free. The Wine and Cheese 
Parties are mixers held at Mudge 
House to give the foreign students 
and interested members of the 
student body a chance to meet on 
an informal basis. They are also 
held for the same reason all other 
parties are held. All are welcome. 
Members will be admitted free 
and all other males will no doubt 
be happy to donate $1.00 to the 
club. The party will be held at 
Mudge House Saturday, February 
29 at 6:50.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 26, 1961
Happy 179 92/183 Birthday, 
Math Students Say To Cauchy
Augustin Louis Cauchy was 174 and 92/183 years old last 
Friday, February 21, 1964. To celebrate the commemorative 
anniversary of this famous mathematician, twelve Beta 
Theta Pi math majors felt that the occasion demanded special 
recognition..
BULLETIN BOARD
At 2:30 p.m., armed with a 33 Vz 
record-size cake, the Betas dozen 
marched into a math department 
conference of Dr. Perlis, head of 
the department, Dr. Moskowitz, 
associate head of the department, 
a visiting lecturer from the Uni
versity of Wisconsin, and other 
members of the department.
The cake was. decorated with 
Cauchys Convergence Criterion 
 abbreviated in mathematical 
notation. Dr. Perlis, seeing the 
inscription pondered a moment, 
then agreeably remarked, Ab
solutely..
After some difficulty in locating 
the center of the twelve-inch cir
cular cake( for which he took 
some degree of ribbing from the 
math students), Dr. Perlis express
ed his enjoyment of the. "birthday 
party and his hopes that, as a 
precedent, it may develop into a 
program of celebrations for other 
famotis mathematicians.
Augustin Cauchy's official birth 
date is, incidentally, August 21.
Graphic Arts 
Goes Liberal
The department of graphic arts 
at Carnegie Tech has strengthened 
both the liberal arts and tech
nical aspects in its undergraduate 
management curriculum.
A first-year course in visual 
arts, design fundamentals and 
world literature has been added 
along with a new opportunity 
for added humanities study in 
the third year. Additional studies 
in polymer chemistry, photochem
istry, paper chemistry and sur
face chemistry have been intro
duced in the technical courses.
As a result of the recent 
changes in the graphic arts pro
gram, over 5Q percent of the 
studies are in the general liberal 
arts curriculum.
Fraternities 
Choose Queen 
Candidates
(continued from page 1) 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, she is a 
Delta Delta Delta.
Joyce Nissenson, a sophomore 
English major from Fairfield, 
Connecticut. She represents three 
of the mens dormitories: Scobell, Welch, and Henderson.
Carol Houtz, a senior home 
economics education major from 
Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. Donner 
Hall is the organization that she 
represents.
Sharon Smith, a freshman 
drama student (acting major) 
from Lexington, Kentucky. She 
represents Hamerschlag Hall.
At the Military Ball, the hon
orary sponsors of the Cadet Regi
ment are recognized, and have 
the honor of crowning the Queen. 
The semi-finalists, in a new pro
cedure of selection this year, have 
been chosen by the fraternity 
houses and dormitory units on 
campus. To limit the number to 
four finalists,' their names will 
also be voted on by the entire 
student body.
Tickets for the Military Bali  
Saturday, March 7  may be 
obtained in Skibo, at the Mili 
tary Department (AH 262), or 
from any member of Scabbard 
and Blade.
Thistle Sales 
Campaign
(continued front page 1) 
In the coming weeks, these new 
features will be elaborated, in 
conjunction with the sales cam
paign of the yearbook. The staff 
has urged that all students watch 
bulletin boards and future issues 
of this newspaper for information 
on what to expect in the new 
1964 Carnegie Tech Thistle.
CRAFT AVE. THEATER
OPENS SATURDAY
HAMLET ST. THEATER
GUfUBlEDNSK
Suspense Smash CA ARNEGI
Musicals $2.00 
Sun at 7:30 
Tickets available ai Pitt Book Center 
BescrvatyRB (21-4445
Tuesday Assembly 
On March 3 Stephen Lawrence, 
of the. Department of English will 
lecture on . the play . 41 Julius 
Caesar, which is being presented 
by the Drama Department as the 
Shakespeare Anniversary Play 
March 5-17.
. The Assembly will be at 11:30 
in the Fine Arts Theater.
Alumni Residence
A recent study of alumni resi
dence reveals that a total of 25,- 
717 Tech alumni now reside in all 
fifty states. Almost 500 Tech grads
5TRAN m
483-6882 U
NOW SHOWING
JBmr
UMBL.aJWSCTU Mimwcitesra?
 ALSO 
WarnerSnmetano
fili-NiiSl
TWKSU' FrasWMBMIR
live abroad, with Canada, India, 
and England having the most rep
resentatives.
Tape Available
Both the lecture given at as
sembly by Dr. Markus Barth and 
the evening question  answer 
period on February .18 have been 
recorded on tape. This tape is 
available for listening or retaping, as has been previously re
quested. If interested, go to the 
Office of Religious Affairs to make 
necessary arrangements.
Akron Clan .
The newly organized Akron 
Clan of, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology will hold its first 
meeting on Thursday, February 
27, at 7:30 p.m. in the Univer
sity Club; Akron, Ohio.
Guest speaker at the clan 
meeting will be H. Russell Bintzer, vice president for develop
ment at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Chairman of the 
meeting is Robert J. Paustain.
2nd FINAL WEEK
Sneak Preview 
Sat. & Sun. Nights at 8:30 P.M.
The story of a man condemned... of his brother who offered to save him for a price .. his brothers woman1
iflrence ftatVey Sarah Mifes 
__JoVm Ireland^
VVOLUMLE59OLN BLURB9O189U WD9VOLUML 59OLNSAY,F,2 VU64ThE9O4ea4a
The Shadyside
682-1901
5518 Walnut St.
STARTS FEB. 26th "America, America*'
MKEOTE
DYNEL
EVEREADY
PHESTONE
What brand name will you add to this list?
SEV1N
OCOM
These famous products were all devel
oped at Union Carbide Corporation. 
Many of our people prospered and be
came famous along with these prod
ucts. Why dont you get in on the act? 
An example of an unusual opportunity 
is occurring in our Silicones Division. . 
Several recent innovations hold prom
ise to replace conventional products
with silicones of vastly improved prop
erties. In fact, there are over 3,500 
products in development. And many of 
them could become as famous as those 
shown above.
Find out more about joining a famous 
company that has a reputation for inno
vation... and all of the interesting pos
sibilities that promises.
Make an appointment at your placement tiffics. 
The Union Carbide Silicones Man will be here on 
March 2
SILICONES
make things work harder iast longer
An sual oppa luniiy employer

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 2S, 19C4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  hu 
Chance For Rewarding Experience 
As Counselor At Freshman Camp
New students discuss fields of interest at Freshman Camp.
Eager freshmen pack into buses. With the energy and 
spirit they'll wish they could re-capture at their first exam 
time, theyre off for Freshman Camp.
Freshman Camp has become a traditional part of the 
freshmans introduction to college life at Carnegie Tech. It 
is constructed to give the fresh-*
man a chance to meet his class
mates, discuss problems that he 
& .will face, and learn Carnegie tra^ dilions. A three-day period, Camp 
will be held September 8, 9, and 
10, at Camp Lutherlyn, Butler, 
Pa.
This program calls for a well* 
trained staff of upperclassmcn to 
guide It! Application forms are 
available now in Dr. Stricks of
fice, Skibo 103, for students who 
are interested in becoming staff 
members. Applications must be 
. filed in that office by Wednesday, 
March 4, 4:30 p.m. And the en
tire staff will be chosen and no
tified by April 1.
The Camp staff, the first stu
dents to meet the freshman class 
as a whole, will have the oppor
tunity to lead group discussions, 
supervise cabins, and probably 
experience a rewarding feeling 
that past counselors have ex
pressed: Counselors learn more 
than campers.
Gary Lindstrom, chairman of 
this years staff, has already 
formed the nucleus of the group: 
April Soule is assistant chairman; 
Tod Johnson and Cynthia Fox, 
program co-chairmen: Tom Glassberg, entertainment chairman; 
Hedda Blueslone, advisor; and 
Betsy Bealke, secretary. Subsequent staff positions will be filled 
from the counselors to be select
ed.
Everyone interested should ap
ply for counselorship. Every year, 
however, many good people must 
be rejected because of the re
quirements the group as a whole 
must meet.
This staff will consist of soph
omore, junior, and senior students. 
Selected by the committee on a 
person by person basis/they must 
be chsen to reflect the makeup 
of the entire student body, thus 
including a proportion of resi
dents and commuters, greeks 
and independents, men and wom
en students from each of the col
leges and many departments.
Previous experience at camp ii 
not necessary, and applications 
from present freshmen and sopho
mores are encouraged.
Will you em@w 
tlie view from the 
50th floor?
If you go into an "old line" industry what are you chances of climbing to the top? Will those ahead of you be so numerous that 
; youll never get by 
: them?
| No wonder there is I so much interest in * getting into the I "new industries1 _____I... the ones thatare growing and expanding...making room for everyone eager to get ahead.
We have just such a situation in our1 
Silicones Division. Sales have grown 
800% in the last 8 years. We already 
have some 250 products on themarket,' 
and have thousands more back at tha 
lab. Here is a ground floor oppor-j 
tunity that could start your ride to "the 
50th floor.
Find out more about joining a famous 
company that lias a reputation for in
novation ... and all of the interesting, 
possibilities that promises..
Make an appointment at your placement office. 
The Union Carbide Silicones Man will be here on 
March 2
SILICONES
make things work harder /ast longer
An equal opportunity employer
S Vi S Names Johnson Director
Ken Johnson, directing major in 
the Department of Drama, has 
been selected to direct the 1964 
production of Scotch n Soda. Ken 
is well known to many Tech studnts and faculty members as the 
President and Business Manager 
of the. Film Arts Society. He has 
also been very active in the 
Drama Departments annual 
Christmas Show. Besides his many 
experiences in direction and pro
duction with the department, Ken
has also directed such plays as 
Man and Superman Our 
Twelve Angry' Men, and Guys *nd 
Dolls for various off-campus Sne 
atrical groups. Last \summer Ken 
took part in the Westinghouse 
Broadcasting Company internship 
program. He was involved in di
rection and production for he 
Group W program of KYW-TV 
in Cleveland.
Ken says that he is really ex
cited about this years Scotch a* 
Soda production.
(faCanps, with MaxQhulman
(Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! t 
and Barefoot Boy With Cheek.)
\EVOL SPELLED BACKWARDS IS LOVE
Thfev met. Ilis heart leapt. I love you! he cried.
.Me too, hey!" she cried.
.Tell, me," he cried, are you ft girl of expensive tastes?''
?No, hey/' she cried. I am a girl of simple tastes/
Good/ he cried, for my cruel father sends me an allowance 
barely large enough to support life.
Money does not matter to me," she cricd. "My tastes are 
simple; my wants arc few.. Just take ine riding in a long,.new, 
yellow convertible and I am content."
Goodbye, he cried, and ran away as fast as his little 
stumpy legs would carry him, for he had no yellow convertible, 
nor the money to buy one, nor the means to get the money 
short of picking up his stingy father by the ankles and shak-7 
ing him till his wallet fell out.
He knew he must forget this girl, but lying on his pnllet at 
the dormitory, whimpering and moaning, he knew he could not.
At lust an idea came to him: though lie did not have tha 
money to buy a convertible, perhaps he had enough to rent onel
Hope reborn, he rushed on his little stumpy legs (curious to 
tell, he was six feet tall, but all his life lie suffered from little 
stumpy legs) he rushed, I say, to ail automobile rental company 
and rented a yellow convertible for 810 down plus ten cents a 
mile. Then, with many a laugh and cheer, he drove away to 
pick up the girl.
Oh, bull}'! she cricd when she saw the car. This suits my 
simple tastes to a 'T.' Come, let us speed over rolling highroads 
and through bosky dells."
Away they drove. All that day and night they drove and 
finally, tired but happy, they parked high 011 a wind-swept hill,
Marlboro?" he said.
Yum, yum," she said.
They lit their Marlboros. They puffed with deep content
ment. You know'," he said, you. are like a Marlboroclean 
and fresh and relaxing."
Yes, I am clean and fresh and relaxing," she admitted. 
But, all the same, there is a big difference between Marlboros 
and me, because I do not have an efficacious white Selectrata 
filter."
They laughed. They kissed. He screamed.
What is it, hey?" she asked, her attention aroused.
I.ook at the speedometer," he said. We have driven 200 
ipiies, and this car costs ten cents a mile, and I have only
$20 left."
But that is exactly enough," she said.
.Yes," he said, but we still have to drive home.
Oh," she said. They fell into a profound gloom. He started 
the motor and hacked out of the parking place.
Hey, look!" she cried. The speedometer doesnt move when 
you are backing up."
lie looked. It was true. Eureka! he cried. That solves 
my problem. I will drive home in reverse. Then no more miles 
will register on the speedometer and I will have enough money 
to pay!"
I think that is a smashing idea," she said, and she was right. 
Because today our hero is in the county jail where food; cloth
ing, and lodging are provided free of charge, and his allowance 
is piling up so fast that in two or three years he will have 
enough money to take his girl riding again. ioci
Marlboro Cigarettes, good as they are, should not be smoked 
backwards. We, the makers of Marlboro, most earnestly 
urge you to light only the tobacco end. Otherwise your 
smoking pleasure will be substantially diminished. .

---------------------------------------------------

Pace 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 26,1964
This Week In Pittsburgh
MOVIES
Filmgraphics: A Day in the Country and Little Blue 
and Little Yellow, March 3, 8:15 p.m., Porter Hall 
100*.
Film Arts: What Price Glory? (1926) Victor Mc
Laughlin, February 27, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 p.m.,
Porter Hall 100
The Earrings of Madame De------Danielle Darrieux,
Charles Boyer, Vittorio De Sica, March 1, 8:15 p.m., 
YM & WHA, 315 South Bellefield Avenue*
LECTURES
"What Has Happened to the Arts? Colloquia on the 
Arts and Sciences, February 26, 7:30 p.m., GSIA 
auditorium*
A Computer Approach to Content Analysis:
Studies Using the General Inquirer System, 
February 27, 3:15 p.m., Scaife Lecture Hall, Philip J. 
Stone of Harvard University*
Julius Caesar, March 3, il:30 a.m., Fine Arts 
Theater, Stephen A. Lawrence of tlje Department 
of English at Carnegie Tech
MUSIC
Susan Starr (Bach, Schubert, Chopin, Schumann,
Prokofiev), February 26, 8:40 p.m. YM & WHA, 315 
South Bellefield Avenue, Pittsburgh premier perfor
mance*
Die Fledermaus, Canadian Opera Company,
February 27, 8:30 p.m., Mouth Mercy College 
Auditorium
San Francisco Ballet, February 29, 2:30 and 8:30 p.m., 
Syria Mosque.
Marylin Mason organ recital, February 26, 8:00 p.m., 
Calvary Episcopal Church*
FASHION
Sigma Alpha Iota Fashion Show, February 29, 1:00 
p.m:, Ballroom and Wherrett Room, Skibo
EXHIBITS
1400, 1500, 1600 herbals and their woodcuts, continuing 
Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday), 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. 
through March 31, 1:00 to 4:00 p.m. (Monday, 
Wednesday), Hunt Botanical Library*
Paintings and drawings by Harry Holland, Carnegie 
Tech instructor of drawing, continuing through 
March 1, 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Tuesday through 
Saturday, and 2:00 to 5:00 p.m., Sunday, Pittsburgh 
Plan for Art,'1251 North Negley Avenue*
SPORTS
Basketball, Carnegie Tech vs. Pitt, February 26, 8:15 
p.m., Tech gym*
* Free to the public
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
Editor in-Chief ............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ................................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ...........................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ...............................Michael McCoy
News Editor ........................................ Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor .............................Alma Rock
Features Editor...................................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ...................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor .........................................Drew Lippay
Copy Editor .............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...............................John Norris
Secretary Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate S2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, torbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editcr-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU.
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Advisory Board: John Blue, Frank Brady, Charles Ho Fook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva, Marlin Siegel 
Kens Staff: Bob Fritz, Bob Criscom, Elissa Parker, Gretchen Smith, Bob Wohlford. 
tc-WrfU Staff: Sara Cromiey, Mark Ferdman, Callie Gilleland, Morris Goldstein, Janet Westover,
Feature Staff: Susan AUinson, Leslie Buchman, Becky Emerson, Miriam Gillespie, Jane Keller, Marian Mulligan, Karen Mlhm, Sharon Shultleworth.
Bpecta SUIT: Jay Arnold, Ron Bldula, Dick Elder, A1 Green, Bill Hartlep, Chris Macosko.
Batine*s Staff: Eric Feldman, George Merriman, Dick Moore.
yooe Sta.ff: Diane -Brown, Dick Elder. Drew Lippay, Beverely Philo/sky, Ted 
Pierce, Marion Mulligan, Barbara Thorton, Marylu Recco, Bruce McDonald,
Carol Kamell. Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, LonaSne Vino- grad, Carol Young.
Clrealailea Staff:* Gorge Kali. J E. Miller. Tom Chamberlin.rhat Maff: Tom Clements, JJm Pawley, Joe OConnor, Johns OsJae, Howard
A dministration 
Urges Change 
In Fraternities
By Susan Attinson
The Council of Fraternity Pres
idents and- the Division of Student 
Affairs are attempting to alleviate 
the financial difficulties of frater
nities. The negotiations were be
gun just before Christmas with 
the understanding that a settle
ment would be reached by' the 
end of this semester.
The administrations proposals 
concentrate on urging fraternities 
to change their methods in order 
to meet the needs and desires of 
more students. There are three 
major points of proposal:
1. Because financial difficulties are 
due largely-to a lack of mem
bership,^ that minimum frater
nity membership be no less than 
45.
2. That fraternities maintain 90% 
occupancy rate based on a three 
year moving average so that 
they might have sufficient in
come to pay operating costs.
3. That the fraternity deficit or 
projected deficit should not be 
allowed to exceed $10,000. This 
deficit would be counted from 
September 1, 1962.
Fraternities not conforming to 
these rulings would be forced to 
disband.
Concerning the second proposal, 
the administration points out that 
a 90% occupancy rate is 5% un
der the administrations and trus
tees requirement for university 
dormitories. While fraternity 
houses had 76 vacant units last 
September, Carnegie Tech had to 
turn away many students from 
university dormitories. To quote 
Dean Brown, In principle, this 
is not good.
The third proposal is not a new 
one. Two years ago it was agreed 
that the maximum deficit be set at 
$5,000, but since then other factors 
have deferred putting this ruling 
into operation. As of June 30, 
1963, two fraternities had deficits 
over $5,000.
CFP accepted the $10,000 deficit 
proposal during its February 10 
meeting. It realized that even the 
fraternity with the largest deficit 
would have several years to bal
ance its finances. CFP suggested 
that requirement number one, con
cerning the minimum size of fra
ternities, not be included in any 
revision of policy. As a counter
proposal for requirement two, 
CFP suggested that the 90% av
erage be calculated on a t'nreeout-of-four-year moving base.
(continued on page 5)
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Big Year
Every four years U. S. citizens have the opportunity to 
choose the highest administrator of the law under which 
they live. This one choice determines the direction which 
th government will take until the next election. Since this 
decision is so important, it would be expected that much 
attention would be given to prospective presidents. And so 
it is; even this early the candidates (and non-candidates) 
receive much space in the news media.
President Johnson is formulating definite positions  
he favors the tax cut, public accommodations sections of 
the civil rights bill, medicare, etc. But what about the 
Republicans?
If nothing else, Senator Goldwater has taken positions 
which clearly differentiate him from the President. Un
fortunately he does not seem to. understand why he has 
taken these positions:'On a television news program he 
was told that some economists disagree with his views on 
free-enterprise. His reply? Well, they never met a 
payroll. (Or something roughly like that.) At times he 
has some very good ideas  but for very bad reasons (this 
is my opinion only : as is. all of this article). To be a 
suitable alternative a candidate should be able to defend 
his views rationally.
Governor Rockefeller can capably defend his views, 
but they are not much different from those of the incum
bent. He does not offer an alternative to the present di
rection of government.
Governor Scranton seems to be getting most of his 
publicity by making statements saying that he isnt run
ning, but would accept a draft. Of course, to prevent con
flict he will fight to have Pennsylvanias delegation to 
the convention committed to him. Maybe he will let the 
public know his stands if he is nominated. It must be said 
however that he is not a bad governor. The same holds 
true for Nixon, Lodge, et. al.
In my opinion none of th prospective Republican can
didates offer a reasonable alternative to President Johnson 
as of this time. This is fine if you like Johnson, but I dont. 
Why is. there no alternative? Surely the American system 
should give voters a choice that is meaningful.
At the beginning of this column some pious phrases 
were Uttered about the objects and procedures of the Amer
ican form of government. The people will be offered a 
choice only if they want one  and it seems as if they 
dont. I must abide by this decision since I want to live 
under this form of government. But I can protest that I 
dont like any of the candidates, and ask for a choice. If 
enough persons come to agree with me, perhaps someday 
one will be given. I might even run for President myself; 
the U. S. needs more liberal thinkers. Goldwater isnt 
enough!
Such a departure from routine is not really expected 
though. The necessary compromises that political parties 
must make to gain popular support make it impractical 
to deviate far from the general consensus. All this is enough 
to make a person who doesnt like the consensus think that 
a better system of choosing presidents can be found  but 
this is blasphemy.
Peacemongers Plan To Fast For Civil Rights
The Committee on Race and Religion, in 
conjunction with the University of Pitts
burgh Student Government and the Pitt 
Chapter of the NAACP, will hold a fund
raising fast and rally on Wednesday night 
(February 26) from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. in the 
ballroom of the Pitt Student Union.
Students on all campuses are being urged 
to give up one meal on Wednesday as part 
of a National Fast Day proclaimed by the 
Northern Student Movement. The money 
that would have normally been spent on food 
is to be brought to the rally that night.
The program will feature Robert Gore, the 
Assistant Community Relations Director of 
National CORE, speaking on The Role of 
Students in Civil Rights. Mr. Gore has been 
active in planning civil rights demonstra
tions in the South and in the rent-strike 
demonstrations in New York.
Also in the program will be folk singing 
led by representatives from all campuses and 
speeches about the organizations being sup
ported. Fast crackers and water will be dis
tributed.
The funds raised will be distributed equal
ly among three civil rights organizations 
The Northern Student Movement, the Pitts
burgh Tutorial Projects, and the Student 
Non-Violent Coordination Committee.
The first of these organizations, the North
ern Student Movement, has been active in 
the northeast in setting up tutorial projects, 
including the one here in Pittsburgh. The 
Pittsburgh Tutorial Project, which was form
ed last summer, is being run by local college 
students and has been helping high school 
students in the North Side, the Hill, and in 
the Homewood districts. SNCC, the third or
ganization, is particularly known for its voter 
registration drives in the South.
To show their support for the program, 
Chatham College has cancelled a dinner on 
Wednesday night and is contributing the 
money from the meal to the fund.
Other organizations which have lent their 
support to the rally are the Tech YMCA, 
Hillel, the Campus Ministry, Newman Club, 
Liberal Club, and the National Student 
Christian Association.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday February 2, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  rare ]
Koinualdis Research 
To Improve Concrete
As long' as man has mixed conete, he has endured deficiencies 
application limitations drastically below the potential of the 
material. Likewise, he has en
dured cracked superhighways, pa
tios, sidewalks, and shapeless 
iorms on buildings.
However, a four-year study by 
Dr. James, P. Romualdi, professor 
I civil engineering, may lead to 
radical changes in applications 
and shapes of future concrete 
structures.
J Basically, the research involves 
the use of closely-spaced short 
lengths of thin wire mixed with 
the concrete. According to Dr. 
Romualdi, there is a correlation 
between his work and the devel
opment of fiberglass. Where once 
glass was thought of as some
thing very fragile to be used .with 
great care, it is now used in many 
places where -shape and strength 
are important, he said. The 
J-.^glass is no different essentially 
j from that used in a window pane,
i However, the use of glass fibers
controls flaws which previously 
caused glass to be brittle mate
rial/
Dr. Romualdi points out that 
the control of flaws is the only 
difference between those materials 
we think of as brittle and those 
we think of as tough. By the use 
of these small wire fibers, small 
^pf!flaws in concrete can be prevented 
from enlarging, thus making the
material highly resistant to situ
ations such as repeated. applica
tion of loads, and thermal shock, 
j which cause most of the deficien
cies in the concrete.
The result of all of this is that 
J  superhighway, for instance, may 
in the future be built of concrete 
j one-half or less the thickness now
\ used, yet have a much greater
. % ' :
strength and resistance to crack
ing. -
Other applications which Dr. 
Romualdi sees for the future are 
exterior building panels which 
would be thinner, easier to shape, 
and yet be at least as strong as 
conventional exterior concrete 
panels; and underground piping 
systems which would be thinner 
and more leakproof.
The most recent contract for 
application of the material has 
come from the Department of De
fense, which has given Carnegie 
Tech and Dr. Romualdi more than 
$20,000 to study its application to 
blast-resistant protective struc
tures.
Ford Awards 
Total of $5900 
In Fine Arts
The Ford Motor Company has 
awarded scholarships to two soph
omores in the department of 
painting, design and sculpture. 
The grants are for study in the 
area of industrial design.
John C. Ward, of Wilton, Conn., 
and Don R. McClosky, of New 
Cumberland, Pa., each received a 
$1450 award from the company. 
In adition, Ford made a direct 
unrestricted grant of $3000 to the 
department. According to Pro
fessor Lee Goldman, head of the 
department, the grant has been 
used to purchase equipment for 
industrial design laboratories and 
to refurnish the gallery on the 
third floor of the College of Fine 
Arts for industrial design and 
prmtmaking processes.
C.W.POST
COLLEGE
OF LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY#Salutes the Worlds Fair 
with 
TWO 5-WEEK SUMMER SESSIONS
Enjoy a profitable summer of study and recreation 
at the 141-acre "campus of C. W. Post College, 
located on the North Shore of Long Island, 
only 30 minutes from the Worlds Fair, 
one hour from Midtown Manhattan. 
On-campus facilities include: swimming, 
gymnasium, riding, bowling, theatre and concerts.
APPLICATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED 
for
OFH L YVY.M.u UYUUMs.U
JUNE 22 to JULY 24 * JULY 27 to AUGUST 28 
NEW MENS and WOMENS RESIDENCE HALLS AVAILABLE
ACCELERATE YOUR DEGREE PROGRAM 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSE offerings include studies in 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, Pre-Professional, Pre-Engi
neering, Business and Education.
GRADUATE COURSE offerings include studies in Biological 
Sciences, Education, English, Guidance and Counseling, 
History, Library Science, Mathematics, Music Education 
and Political Science.
DISTINGUISHED VISITING AND RESIDENT FACULTY 
OUTSTANDING LIBRARY FACILITIES
APPLY NOW ... Admission open to VISITING STUDENTS 
from other accredited colleges.
I Dean of Summer School, C. W. Post College. P.O., Greenvate, L.I., N.Y. 11540 
 Please send me Summer Sessions Information bulletin. c p
i ? Women's Residence Hall Q Mens Residence Hall
I ? Undergraduate ? Graduate ? Oay ? Evening
| Name...............................................................*............................................
i Address......................................................................................*............................
I City.......................................................................State......................................ii If visiting student, from which college?.....................................
Administration
Challenges
Fraternities
(continued from page 4)
CFP also suggested that frater
nities be allowed to move nonmembers into their houses in the 
fall of any year to improve their 
occupancy status.
Discussions between CFP and 
the administration concerning fra
ternity finances have been going 
on now for the past four years. In 
May of 1962, a formal statement 
was released by the College de
fining fraternity responsibilities to 
Carnegie Tech, to the academic 
community, and to the students. 
It stressed that the college fra
ternity must regard itself as an 
integral part of the institution in 
which it is located. the Admini
stration regards fraternities in the 
same light as all other extracur
ricular activities recognized on 
campus, although Carnegie Tech 
owns all but one fraternity house.
The present negotiations be
tween CFP and Division of Stu
dent Affairs have, as their mutual 
purpose, to verify and re-adjust 
policy and try to give help con
trolling the future of the fraternity I 
system. 1
Your Man 
In Congress 
In Wednesdays Committee Heads meeting, Congress 
Chairman Tom Pyke announced a new five-part administra
tive program, which involves increased encouragement for 
special activities, such as Spring Carnival, Fall Festival, 
Campus Chest, TGIF; more; help for general activities, such 
as the Activities Fair; a more careful consideration of ad
ministrative proposals, an increasing awareness of Con
gressional Powers, in issues such as the Thanksgiving vaca
tion, Calendar Makeup, and Library regulations; and an 
examination and encouragement of student morale. The 
program will be explained fully to the Congress assembled 
today. Tom reported that an. average of 8 absences per 
meeting out of 69 members of Congress is the best record in 
several years. He emphasized a better preparation of motions 
in Congress and a voter education program on the part of 
the committees, who will review proposals, evaluate the 
pros and cons, take a stand, and publicize it. All amendments 
must be accompanied by explanations of the problems they 
are designed to alleviate, and the method they will use to 
accomplish this. Emergency meetings of Student Congress 
may be called on alternate Wednesdays when an unusually 
large amount of work presses. All new chairman of Commit
tees must be approved by vote of Congress assembled.
Activities Keys forms are now in process of being revised; 
the point system is being brought into proportion. Keys are 
given for participation in campus activities; a certain num
ber of points is awarded for each office, organizational mem
bership, or extra-curricular activity. Juniors and Seniors with 
the required number of points are awarded keys on Call Day 
at Spring Carnival. The amount of time required in the 
activity, the prestige given the school, and the number of 
people benefited are the determiners of points.
Butch Davis, Financial Committee Chairman, reported 
that the 1964-65 Student Act Budget has been completed. 
After the meeting was adjourned, several of the committee 
heads participated in a snowball fight.
You have peen mep achievement 
in data apehdyyblIiat MCc
There are challenging assignments open in more than 190 IBM Sales 
and Service Offices, coast to coast, with room for achievement in the 
marketing of information systems and equipment. B 
To qualify, you should have a bachelor's or advanced degree in Engi
neering, the Sciences, Business Administration, Economics, or the Lib
eral Arts. 1
You'll find that your opportunities increase with each new system that 
is designed to meet the growing needs of business, industry, govern
ment, research, education, or space. B
5b48 p3lI8 em aeyb-bely
Marketing: B The IBM Data Processing Representative is a consultant 
to his customers. B He demonstrates how customers can achieve bet
ter business management and control through data processing. B 
Systems Engineering: B IBM Data Processing Systems Engineers are 
men and women who study customer requirements in depth, devise an 
approach, define a preferred machine and operational solution, and 
assist in implementing this solution. B
eaaep-6lb-b8y for 3423lh8n8lIBM, an Equal Opportunity Employer, offers you extensive training in 
the area of your special interest. B This training continues as you 
advance along a planned career path leading to professional or man
agerial positions. I
We also have comprehensive company-paid benefits plans...training 
programs to keep you abreast of developments in your field...and a 
tuition-refund plan to give you financial assistance for graduate study. 1
on-campus interviews
See your college placement director to determine when IBM will intrview on campus, and make an appointment to see our representative.
If the interview date is inconvenient for you, please write or call: B 
W. J. Deskin, Branch Manager, B IBM Corporation, 421 7th Ave., 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa., CO 1-6880. B
IBM will interview March 12, 13. B
MOVE AHEAD WITHIBM
DATA PROCESSING

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 2, 1N<
Fff8I8lA Weff8I8 Opeay -e K8hĻ 
K8l 'ebl-y u3bl84 bl s28p-bn8
But for the saving grace of a 
scoring spurt in the overtime per
iod following the deadlocked 
regulation play, basketball at 
Tech would have joined the ranks 
of the always-beaten. Allegheny, 
taking St. Vincents place as a 
predicted victim of the losingstreak Tartans, managed' to retain 
a place for themselves in the 
game at the Tech gym Saturday 
night before succumbing 74-64 in 
the -overtime play  allowing the 
Tartans to hold their uniforms 
for their final three games.
Allegheny scored first on a 
jumpshot from the foul line by 
Sample, then pressed Tcch, only 
to watch Jules Borkowski tie the 
score with his own jump shot 
from the foul line. Again they 
gained the lead on a Spencer 
jump shot.
With five minutes gone the 
visiting Tigers held only a slim 
8-6 lead; but from here on their 
weak attack increased that lead. 
Maness, a high-jumping freshman, combined his jump shots 
with Spencer's hooks and bank 
shots to keep the Tartans away 
from the lead for the remaining 
fifteen minutes.
Ray Morrison joined the scorers 
for Tech on a variety of fastbreak layups and from-the- circle 
push shots to aid Borkowski in 
keeping the Tartan fans. An un
usual number of fans turned out 
because of a CFP rush event. 
Techs efforts were, not sufficient 
to keep them in the game, though, 
as they substituted freely in an 
attempt to find a combination who 
could find the Allegheny weak
ness. No such combination could 
be found; Tech was forced to 
come into the second half be
hind 38-31.
The first seven minutes of the 
new half proved less exciting, 
until George McGeary tied the 
score at 44-44 on the first of two 
foul shots and then gave the Tar
tans their first lead on the second. 
From then on, Tech managed to 
exchange baskets with Allegheny 
to stay within range of a break!Junior Year inNew York
An unusual one-year 
college program.
Write for brochure JY-4
Junior Year Program 
Washington Square College 
New York University 
New York 3, N. Y.
away effort. That effort never 
came.
Morrison, McGeary, Niedra, and 
Borkowski scored the remaining 
points for Tech, but Allegheny 
equaled them to the point. It was 
necessary to go into a five-minute 
overtime to break the 62-62 dead
lock.
Maness, who ended as high 
scorer with 21 points, lost his 
composure, stepped once, and on 
a second chance threw away the 
ball to give Tech a chance to turn 
the game. Morrison accepted the 
chance and began the Tartan 
scoring on a push from the side.) 
Hank Werronen, Steve Foels, and | 
Morrison added further to the 
marred only by two free throws'
by Maness. Niedra ended the scor
ing on two free throws to give 
Tech the 74-64 victory and to stop 
their losing streak. They go into 
the game with Pitt at the Tech 
gym with a record of 6-11. 
CARNEGIE TECH
iga fg ft ft rbs pts
Morrison 20 9 3 2 4 20McGeary 10 6 6 4 11 16
ALLEGHENY
84 4 27
 Photo by Jim PawleyHank Werronen goes for jump shot in overtime.
THE NEW HUE IN EAGLE BUTTON-DOWNS; 
FORESEEABLE FUCHSIA
I
OOKS pinkfdoesnt it? * We chose the name for this color from among the entries in our recent' 
J competition for new color-names because of its aptness: we predict great things. Remember you 
heard it here first. ? What makes our solid pink new is that it isnt solid pink: the vertical yam 
(or warp) is somewhere between a Robert Shaw Coral and a Lawsy Miss Scarlet; whereas the 
horizontal yarn-(or woof) ~is a sort of Enry Iggins Just You White. ? Thus creating an illusion,' 
but of the finest oxford cloth all the same; with button cuffs and our dear, old bulgy collar, about 
$7.00. If you dont know where to buy this and other Eagle Shirts in your town, please write Miss 
Afflerbach who does; at the address below.
*L';e your mrinna'.ion ihis paper drcsnt prin* in pink. @ 1954GUfBlUEDNSK5f0USEG 1-f0USK7$2G8U22EYlof2Nfu

---------------------------------------------------

LrC83-yK8hB vkoP 
Yppepy 'pe28 Wey-fA
Wednesday February 26, 1964 - CARNEGIE TARTN  Pi T
_ I Cooper added his specialized 
talents in an all-out final effort 
by a poorly balanced Washington 
iind Jefferson to accept a 75-67 
Victory from Carnegie Tech at 
[he Tech gym last Wednesday 
night. Coopers 30 points dwarfed 
a 23-point Borkowski spree and 
regulated Tech hopes of a split 
season to a far-off hole in a for
gotten corner.
W&J managed to' disorganize 
t h e Tartan offensive into five 
quick errors before they scored 
the first* basket on a lapse in the 
v.y&J defense. With little spirit 
ifrom the meager crowd, the best 
Tech could manage was a basketfor-basket: agreement. Twist
ing jump-shot drives by Andy 
Niedra and miscellaneous points 
by Borsowski, .George McGeary 
and Ray Morrison spurred the ofsense.
The Yellow Jaskets could only 
bold their side of the split, un
able to increase their. lead by 
^noie than one point with ten 
jnnutes gone. Coopers rebounding 
and John Unices play sparked 
the W&J attack.
Tartan efforts evened the score 
but again could only exchange 
points on Niedra pushdrives and 
Unice jump shots from behind 
screens. Cooper found the foul 
line profitable and popped in a few 
ireethrows  to keep in with the 
,s^orkowski drives and jump-shots.
Tech left the half ahead 38-34 
with hopes of a brighter second 
effort.
Neither team could claim their 
hopes, though Tech was spurting 
into leads with Jeff Kalin, Niedra 
and McGeary carrying the scor
ing brunt in opposition to W&Js 
Cooper and Banchansky. With ten 
minutes gone in the second half 
and W&J beginning to press from 
half court, Tech held a 55-54 
deficit.
The press and the Tech lapse 
on defense and offense negated 
Tartan hopes. Mason and Cooper 
stiffened the pace under the bas
ket, while Tech relied on Morri
son, McGeary and Borkowski to 
keep excitement among the fans 
until they overran the court after 
the 76-67 game.
CARNEGIE TECH
NiedraKalinMcGear;MorrisoiBorkow:FeelsCupps
Banchansky 15Cooper 18Unice 7Mason 6Marshall 6
10 13 10 20 30
Tech Rifle Team Defeats W&J
Paced by Mike Knepleys best 
performance of the year, Carnegie 
Tech won their bigegst match of 
the year, defeating W. and J. and 
Grove City in a three-way match 
on the Tartan range.
Knepley fired a 100-96-93 score 
for a 289, his highest career out
put and the highest score shot by 
a Tech rifleman in the match by 
virtue of his 93 in the standing 
position.
Techs total score was a 1395 
eight above W&Js 1387 and ten 
above Grove Citys 1385. The 
match wasnt decided until the 
Jourth relay when freshman Jim 
Burdick shot a 97-95-84, 276 to 
give the Tartans a five point bulge.
Second high shooter for Tech 
---------------------------------------------------------
was Phil Meyers with a 99-98-83, 
279 total. He was followed by Bob 
Fritz with a 98-92-86 276 total. 
Burdick, and Scott McCormick 
with a 99-90-84 273 score.
Coach Murphys riflemen have 
three matches upcoming, two with 
a weak California team and an all 
important match with Allegheny 
for second place in the Southern 
Division of the West Penn Conference. Allegheny currently 
sports a 1399 average.
After this match and an exhibi
tion against Pitt, Tech will travel 
to Canisius College of Buffalo for 
a sectional match where the score 
will be matched against those of 
teams from all over the country.
Theres a time and place for everything
Right now Shakespeare has you engrossed. But 
when youve finished Romeo and Juliet, take 
a telephone break and call home. Your parents ( 
'would love to hear from you. It means so much 
costs so little.
2nd Week Of 
IM Basketball 
Has No Change
Intramural basketball moved 
into its second week with the 
seeded teams having little trouble 
disposing of their weaker rivals.
In the Warrior League, the 
Grad Eagles had an easy week 
of it, waltzing by the Whales 68- 
29. Beta Theta Pi ha& just as 
easy a schedule, trouncing ATO 
B 57-14.
PiKA remained unbeaten but 
unimpressive by beating Sigma 
Nu's second team 31-27 and DU 
"B 41-11. The Whales also
whipped DU "B 44-13, and the 
Dorm-Trojans S nipped ATOs 
B team in the closing seconds 
of play 24-22.
The big game in the Celtics 
League saw ATO defeat Kappa 
Sig 55-49 behind 21 points by 
Frank Oliver and 19 by A1 Green. 
Jack Scholl had 18 for the losers.
The Grad Physics team had lit
tle trouble whipping the Commu
ters 62-33 and PKT A 39-28 
behind big Bill Osterhius scoring 
and rebounding. The top seeded 
Finks B, doubled BTP B* 60- 
30 with Ftupnik scoring 18.
In the other games, the Dunkers lost a close one to BTP B 
29-27 and then were trounced 
by, KS 60-17.
Sigma Nu put on a real scor
ing show, running over TDP B 
91-27 to remain" unbeaten in the 
Royals League. The Dorm-Tro
jans also remained unbeaten by 
disposing of DTD 53-38.
The rest of the games in the 
Royals League were squeakers. 
The Grad Hawks managed to 
squeeze by BSR "A" 28-21 in 
spite of 14 points by Beta Sigs 
Hockhouser. The Delts lost a 
tough one to the Finks "A 36-35 
and BSR lost again to the E.E. 
Grads, this time by two 34-32.
In the Lakers League, the Civil 
Hammers looked more and more 
like the team to beat as they 
wasted the Dorm-Trojans second 
team 58-20. Delta Upsilon, prob(continued on page 8)
Tartans Win Swim Meet At Theil; 
Bring in Seven of Eleven Wins
Carnegie Tech swimmers took 
seven of eleven first places last 
Saturday at Theil, grinning the 
meet by a score of 54-39. The 
Tartans won the first event, the 
medley relay, and held the lead 
all the way. Theils only bright 
light was Les Williams who won 
both the 500 yd. freestyle and the 
200 yd. freestyle, setting a record 
in the latter with a time of 2:02.1. 
Tartan captain, Len Lester, also 
took two firsts, winning the 200 
yd. I.M. and the 200' yd breast 
stroke, as part of a one-two sweep 
with Dave Specht.
Tartan scoring was divided 
evenly among the squad as second 
place point honors were shared by 
Wolff, Hutter, and Wyman, all 
with 6 points. Nine Tartans scored 
over four points in the meet, re-, 
vealing a consistency and well
roundedness not seen in previous 
meets.
Tech freshmen, Wolff and Hut
ter, once again dominated the. 50 
and 100 yd. freestyle events. Hut
ter won the 50 and finished third 
in the 100. Wolff, inversely, won 
the 100 and finished third in the
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk GuitarFred Albitz  Featured at the Casbah and many other Pittsburgh spots  and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons at The Peter Hughes School of Music. Call: 731-1844.
ney Street 681-0638.
Shadyslde  3 or 4 rooms, completely furnished, all utilities'. Men students or couple. Call after 5 weekdays, anytime Sat. and Sun. 361-3117.
50. Frank Wyman won the 200 yd. 
butterfly for the first time this 
season as part of another one-two 
sweep with Bill Burdett. Wymanalso took a third in the 200 yd. 
backstroke. The Tartars ancient 
George Weiss held down the dis
tance freestyle with a sec.ond i*\ 
the 500 and a third in the 200. 
Geary Andrews nailed, down sec
ond place in the 200. \
The victory was Techs third of 
the year, giving them a record of
3-6-1 with three meets remaining. 
Their next meet is Saturday, Feb
ruary 29, against Western Reserve 
at the Skibo Pool.

READ
M. W. Motors Publication 
BEETLE TALK
for oeople who drive Volks
wagens and those who should. 
It features information about 
the Volkswagens, tips and help
ful hints for Volkswagen own
ers, and contests with valuable 
prizes. To get on the mailing 
list, write your name and. ad
dress on a post card and mail it 
with your request to M. W. 
Motors, Pittsburghs leading 
Factory Authorized Volks
wagen Dealer. No charge, of 
course.
Today's Best Buy 
'57 Volkswagen Sedan
Folly Equipped, Excellent Condition
$695
M. W. MOTORS
731 Bailer St. Boole S, Eins
. Pittsburgh. 23
a4n ulistu 5Vn scumuWhat
will you It selling 
IO years fretti now?
Your first big decision, and one of your 
most important: where to find a good 
start that will let you keep on going. 
There are questions to ask yourself: can 
you find an industry where your talents 
will be appreciated now  and where 
you can still progress at the rate you'd 
like to?
A distant daydream? Not at all. Youll 
find the answers youre looking for  
now  in the Silicones Division.
Today there are about 250 Union 
Carbide silicone products on the
market, and 3,500 in development.
That means opportunity for you...in 
fields with an eye to the future.
What do silicones do? Practically every
thing. Because of their versatility and 
long-life characteristics, they can be 
applied to almost every product in use today.
And the rewards? A salary that doesnt 
stand still. And youll enjoy the view... 
looking out from your growing career, 
while others are looking up at it!
Make an appointment at your placement office. 
The Union Carbide Silicones Man will be here on
March 2
 SILICONES
An,equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

rase 8  CAKNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 26, Itti
IM Basketball 
League Scores
The Flat Feet, the Marauders 
and the Whales paced the play 
in the Jag Leagus this week as 
they each ran up lopsided scores 
over their opponents.
The Flat Feet whipped the Leon 
Buicks behind Toners 26 points, 
while the Whales clobbered ATOs 
Celtics 51-23. The Marauders* 
pounded out a 48-6 win over the 
Jag Leagues whipping post, the 
Killers, and SAE "J topped ATO 
37-17. The Finks beat PKT J"
42-22, DTD J out shot the 
Architects 18-13, SN J nipped 
the Leon Buicks 27-24. BSR J 
edged the PSI-Clods 44-42 to 
round out this weeks schedule.
2nd Week Of 
ISA Basketball
(continued from page 7) 
ably the only Laker team. cap
able ' of beating the Civils, held 
off a second half rally by SAE to 
win 38-30.
Tau Delta Phi A beat the 
Met Grads 41-34 behind Marty 
Skowrons 19 points to remain 
in contention for a playoff spot. 
The Dorm-Trojans topped BTP 
uT,f 42-35 and the Met Grads 
trounced KS B 60-27 to round 
out the major league games.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses Dis
sertations  Punctuations  
Spelling  Grammar Corrected.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
Calf 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
ENGINEERS
Consider
-the position that is 
different 
-opportunities in the 
growing field of fire 
protection engineering
- as advisors to top 
industrial organizations
TRAINING GIVEN
INTERVIEWS
on campus: March 3
FACTORY MUTUAL 
ENGINEERING DIVISION
Tech Swimmers Tie West Virginia; 
Tartans Display Strong Comeback
The West Virginia swimming 
team. found that the Tartans 
were more than they could 
handle last Wednesday, as they 
settled for a 47-47 tie. The 
Mountaineers took the lead, win
ning the first five events and 
seven of the first eight. How
ever, with only three events re
maining, the Plaid came on strong 
to win all three and deny West 
Virginia a victory.
Before the last three events 
West Virginia had gone ahead
43-26, but Techs swimmers took
21 of th remaining 25 points, 
Geary Andrews and Bill Cotsworth finished first and second in 
the 500 yard freestyle for 8 of 
the 21 points. Len Lester and 
Dave Specht finished first and 
third in the 200 yard breast stroke 
for another 6 points. With the 
score then 47-40, West Virginia 
leading, Tech took the last event, 
the ..freestyle relay, tieing the 
score and the meet.
Two big winners for Tech in the 
meet were Len Lester, finishing 
second in the 200 yard I.M. and 
first in the 200 yard breast stroke, 
killing West Virginia's attempt to
clinch the victory, and Geary An
drews, finishing second in the 
200 yard freestyle', and first in 
the 500 yard freestyle, and .an
choring the victorious freestyle 
relay. Andrews shadow, George 
Weiss took a third in the 200 yard 
free, and. was also a part of the 
last relay. Other Tech standouts 
were freshman Pete Hutter and 
Bill Burdett. Hutter took second 
in the 50 yard free, third in the 
100 yard free, and was part of 
the last relay. Burdett won the 
200 yard butterfly for the Tar
tans first win of the meet.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . ,
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . . . 
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
Earning Money in EuropeJOBS IN EUROPE
Every registered student 
can get a job in Europe and 
receive a travel grant, * 
Among thousands of jobs 
available are resort, sales, 
lifeguard and office work.
No experience is necessary 
and wages range to $400 
monthly. For a complete 
prospectus, travel grant and 
job application returned air
mail,send $1 to Dept. F, 
American Student Informa
tion Service, 22 Ave. de la 
Liberte, Luxembourg City, 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
DEVELOPMENT OF MANAGEMENT IS OUR MOSTiMPORnin
ran
At the 1963 stockholders meeting, Arjay R. Miller, President of 
Ford Motor Company, emphasized the Companys far-sighted recruit-, 
ment program and its accent on developing management talent:
"Obviously, our long-run future will be determined by the develop
ment of our management. Here,? every one of usat all levels of 
supervisionrecognizes this as his most important function. Since 1946, 
the Company has recruited widely varied talenttalent that can be 
blended to give us the required combination of tight administration and 
creative scope.
Under a carefully conceived management development program, we try to
recruit the best personnel available, both in training and experience. Once we
get them, we have a program for giving them varied opportunities and increasing 
responsibility. This program is in force in all parts of the Companyin manufactur- i 
ing, finance, styling, engineering and marketing.
The program is paying off. We have developed a real depth of management talent 
in the Company, and we are dedicated to seeing it continued and reinforced. Because 
of this, I feel not only very fortunate in being associated with this management
group, but also very confident of its long-run success. We know our goals and how to
achieve them.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn. Michigan
C
