* C A R N E G I EN
C A RNEG IE INSTITUTE OF TEC H NO LO G Y
VOLUME 64  NUMBER 24WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1964
Tartan Seeks 
*New Editors 
For 1964-1965
This 'month, the Carnegie Tartan 
will select new staff editors for 
the 1964-65 school year. All stu
dents who feel qualified to hold 
positions as staff editors are urged 
to submit applications.
^ Available positions are:
Editor-In-Chief Executive Editor Mana;in? Editor Kusinesa Editor News Editor Assistant News Editor Features Editor Sporls Editor -
CopyiitorEditor Secretary Editor j Circulation EditorAdvisory Board Member
1 Applicants should not be fearful
appearing ambitious. No one 
jWwill be discredited because he is 
j applying for more than one posi
tion. In fact, applicants are urged 
i to apply for many, but should be 
able to explain their interest in 
each one. 
j Letters of application should in] elude the following:
| Positions sought, in order of con| sideration:
| Activities on and off campus. 
State duration of membership, 
including offices and positions 
held. Indicate current activities. 
Experience in publishing and writ
ing. Explain interest in that 
position sought and include what 
plans arc to be enacted in that 
position. Be specific.
State class, major, approximate 
cummulative grade average. In
clude last terms factor and cur
rent mid-term factor.
^ A!l resumes are due no later 
than 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, 
April 15. Send all correspondence 
to Editor, The Tartan, c/o Dr. 
Stricks Office, 103 Skibo, Campus 
Mail.
I Activities Seat 
ijTo Be Filled
Election for a seat representing 
all departmental clubs and mis
cellaneous organizations - on the 
Executive Council of Student Gov
ernment will be held on Monday, 
April 20. All students are eligible. 
The election will be decided by 
the heads of these 40-odd campus 
groups.
Voting by proxy ballots will be 
i ^acceptable if approved forms are '^used. They may be secured in 
Room 103 Skibo or from the pre
sent representative, Bob Hawkins.
; Proxies may be solicited only after
| April 8. Th completed proxies
j should be submitted to Room 33
j Skibo at 4:30 p.m. on the 20th. At
that time there will be a discussion 
and questioning of the candidates 
and live balloting. All candidates 
must be present.
Platforms Due for 
Congress Nominees
Candidates seeking the office of 
Student Congress Chairman are 
invited to publicly state their plat
forms in this newspaper.'All statements, typed (double.-spaced) on 
standard unlined paper, must be in 
the Tartan office by 6:00 P.m. Sat-Jirday evening.
Four Preps To Star At Spring Carnival
Saturday Dance To Feature 
Tommy Payne, The Flamingos
Spring CarnivaLs Friday night concert will headline the 
Four Preps. The following evening, the Tommy Payne Or
chestra, the Flamingos, and comedian Tony Garland will pro
vide the entertainment at the Carnival Week-end dance.
Performers on the Ed Sullivan, Tennessee Ernie Ford, 
Ozzie and Harriet, and Dick Clark*:
shows, the Four Preps are knowll GT A ft 0,3,,
for their hit recordings of 26 XlOlClSLecture Series
The Four Preps began their 
career some nine years ago in;
Hollywood, when in high school, 
the quartet was formed. In 1957, 
they began recording for Capital 
Records as the youngest vocal 
group in the country on a major 
label.
: Each of the groups members 
today in his mid-twenties. They 
are Biuce Belland, Ed Cobb/ Mar
vin1 Ingram, and Glen Larson. All 
have college degrees and at one 
time or .another have participated 
in major athletic events.
Besides the continuing success 
of the Four Preps On Campus 
and Campus Encore, two of 
their biggest albums (the most 
recent smash recording of the 
Four Preps is More Money' For 
You And Me.M In it, they intro
duced the new gimmick of group 
imitations which successfully 
parodied every other popular 
singing group.
Witty, versatile, and talented, 
the Four Preps have proved 
themselves a capable singing quar
tet and have performed on every 
occasion to capacity crowds, on 
campuses all over the United 
States.
The Fdur Preps will entertain at the Spring Carnival's Friday night concert.
Ceilidh Folk Society To Bring 
Faust And Rasmussen To Tech
At 8:30 p.m. on Friday, April 17, Skibo Hall will be the 
scene and the sound of songs and ballads as the Carnegie 
Ceilidh presents its third annual concert of folk music.
Headliners for the concert will be two young New York 
musicians who are as close to the feeling and sound of ethnic 
mountain as anything the Amer-^ 
ican folk revival has yet produced 
 Luke Faust and Jerry Ras
mussen. Traditional singers with a 
sound that is both authentic and 
original, Rasmussen and Faust 
have been highly successful in 
their appearances in Greenwich.
Village.
Bob Dylan, speaking < 
early experiences in the Village, 
has written of Faust, I remember 
Luke playin his banjo an singui
East Virginia with a tone as soft 
as the snow outside, and Mr,
Garfield with a bitin touch as 
hard as the stovepipe on the in 
side. Luke recently made his first 
record for Prestige and is now in 
the process of cutting another for 
Folkways,, the two most respected 
company names in folk music. He 
was a legend in the Village long 
before this, however.
Rasmussen, a geologist, polar 
navigator, museum expert, who 
originally hails from Wisconsin, 
made his professional debut at 
Town Hall last December, and re
ceived enthusiastic reviews from 
the New York critics.. Among them, Robert Shelton, folk music 
critic for the New York Times 
and a man noted for both taste 
and harsh criticism, said of Jerry,
Mr. Rasmussens contribution 
was a triumph of intelligent pro
gram-building. . His songs were 
unusual and skillfully chosen - . .
His obvious Understanding of folk 
(continued on page 5)
Shapiro Opens 
Cuban Seminar
Dr. Samuel Shapiro, Professor 
of History at Notre Dame, fre
quent visitor to Cuba, and author 
of the book The Invisible Latin 
America, will speak to two stu
dent and faculty audiences on 
April 17 and 18.
Dr. Shapiro will speak Friday 
evening, April 17, at 8:00 p.m. in 
the G.S.I.A. auditorium on Four 
Portraits of Castro, dealing with 
the lives of four Cuban friends, 
one a lieutenant in the Cuban 
Rebel army under Castro, another 
an engineer in charge of basic in
dustries under Guevara, one a 
refugee living in Miami whose 
husband took part in the invasion 
of the Bay of Pigs. This address 
will be sponsored by the Carnegie 
Tech YMCA - YWCA, and the 
American Friends Service Com
mittee. Other community organi
zations are cooperating and sup
porting the Friday program.
On Saturday, April 18, from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. a Seminar for stu
dents of the Pittsburgh area will 
be held on the Tech campus in 
G.S.I.A. facilities. Entitled Cuba, 
1964  Where Do We Go from 
Here?, the seminar 'will attempt 
to explore and evaluate present 
American policy towards Cuba 
and will seek to project future 
policy. Dr. Shapiro will open the (continued on page 5)
Campus Thefts 
Reported By 
Security Office
Mr. Young, chief of the se
curity police, has expressed con
cern over a recent outbreak of 
thievery on the campus by out
siders.
Victims of these thefts have 
been girls who have left their 
purses in classrooms, and persons 
who have left their gym lockers 
unlocked. Losses have amounted 
to as much as $35-40 in individ
ual cases.
Students at both Carnegie Tech 
and University of Pittsburgh have 
been victimized by sneak thieves. 
The different times of the thefts 
a n d the difficulty of detecting 
outsiders on campus make it dif
ficult to establish a method of 
operation (MO).
Mr. Young requests that stu
dents aid the security police by 
being watchful of personal prop
erty, by locking lockers, by im
mediately reporting the presence 
of strangers to the security police, 
and reporting theftis, if any, as 
soon as they are discovered.
Martin Brenfenbrenner
A series of four lectures on 
America and Empire, Today and 
Tomorrow, will be sponsored by 
the Graduate School of Indus
trial Administration (GSIA) at Carnegie Tech.
The lectures will be given on 
successive Tuesdays at 4 p.m. in 
the auditorium of GSIA and will 
be open to the public.
On April 14, Martin Bronferibrenner, professor of economics 
in GSIA, will speak on The Bur
dens and The Benefits of Empire.
Bernard Brodie, senior staff 
member of the Rand Corporation, 
will speak on The Reach for 
Empire, April 21.
Fred C. Foy,. chairman of the 
Board of the Koppers Company, 
will lecture on The Global Mar
ket Place. April 28.
On May 5, General A. J. Goodpaster, assistant to the chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will 
talk on Power, Diplomacy and 
Force.
Talent Sought 
For Jamboree
Can you sing? Dance? Piay an 
instrument? Co-ordinate the re
moval of clothing to David Rose?
If you can do even a little bit 
of any one of these, you are a 
likely candidate for Spring Car
nivals Talent Jamboree, a round
up of amateur and quasi-profes
sional entertainers from Carnegie Tech.
A short description of your act 
is all you have to send to Chair
man, Talent Jamboree, Box 608, 
Campus Mail.
Deadline is April 16.
Student Congress
There will; be a meeting of 
Student Congress, today 
v Wednesday, at 4:30 in the 
Wherrett Room of Skibo. The 
agenda includes nominations 
for next year's Chairman of 
Congress.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 8, 196*
BULLETIN BOARD
Contests
The Tartan has received infor
mation concerning the following 
contests. Interested .students may 
obtain further information by in
quiring at the Tartan Office or by 
calling 682-4557.
Welded Steel Tube Institute  
Cash awards for articles concern
ing welding' carbon : or stainless, 
steel tubing.
Sterling Silversmiths Guild  
Cash awards for design students 
submitting designs for sterling 
holloware pieces useful in the 
home.
Gretsch Guitar Company  20th 
Century Fox Recording Contract 
first prize, for folk music soloists 
and groups.
WGN Radio Chicago  Epic Re
cording Contract first prize, for 
non-professional vocal or instru
mental solos or groups.
Fine Hardwoods Association  
Cash awards for senior or graduate 
design students submitting furni
ture designs.
- Photographic Competition
Amateur and professional photo
graphers living within a 110 mile 
radius of Pittsburgh are invited 
to. participate in thexThree Rivers 
Art Festival competitive Photographic Exhibition. Details may be 
obtained at the Tartan office; room 50, Skibo.
Peace Corps
The Peace Corps Placement 
Test will be held April 11, 8:30 
a.m., in the Victory Building, 
cornier of 9th Street and Liberty 
Avenue. Those desiring to take 
the test must fill out a Peace 
Corps Questionnaire, available at 
the Post Office, and bring it to 
the testing cent'er.
Men's Dormitory Counselors
Application forms for the posi
tion of men's dormitory counselors 
are now available at the Housing 
Office, Room 154B Administration 
Hall. Men selected will serve dur
ing the academic year 1964-65, and 
in return will receive their living 
quarters rent-free. Applicants will 
be selected on the basis of length 
of residence, factor, financial need, 
and personal characteristics, such 
as responsibility, cooperatiiveness, 
honesty, and dependability.
All applications must be return
ed to the Housing Office on or be 
fore Friday, April 10, 1964.
TGIF
Another session of TGIF will be 
held this Friday from 4:30 p.m 
until 6 p.m. in the Skibo snack 
bar.
TheFdudrP
VOLUMOEE64NB
NOW SHOWING
CARNE GISTUOFGEG SUHTG
RITTER y.e.~C0U
Explorers' Club
The Carnegie Tech Explorers 
Club has interesting trips planned 
for the spring, including Sunday 
trips to local areas, and over
night trips to West Virginia. All 
men and women are welcome to 
participate. For information call 
Alex Nesgoda at 521-3723 or come 
to a Wednesday night CTEC meet
ing at 7:30 in AH-132-H.
Patterns Near 
Start of Sales
Heres hoping Ogden wont 
gnash his teeth in perturbation 
at this use of his indomitible, 
seemingly chaotic style to kindle 
a conflagration about PATTERNS.
(Heres praying youve not the 
misguided attitude that after all 
it just doesnt matterns . . .)
Were coming out this spring 
more spirited than a Johnny reb, 
you see  also calmer than a 
piece of Debussy.
We dont hide it, but vaunt it: 
were wonderful (Even more so 
than pirates are plunderful). And 
so in sigmy summation we plain
tively plead that directly you 
drop night it, YOULL BUY IT!
The Delphic Oracle
Panhcllenic Council Workshop 
and Installation of Officers was 
held on April 5 from 7 - 9:00 p.m 
All officers and delegates of Pahhel were installed after having 
completed their training. >
New Officers: President  Lynelle Torno, Vice President  
Verna Ream, Secretary  Carole 
Breuer, Treasurer  Judy Poguej 
Court Justice  Clarita Dzatko, 
Rush Chairman  Esther Lieber, 
Assistant Rush  Patricia Bonner.
Doughnuts and coffee were served. Mrs. Schreib led a discussion 
on Panhel on the Carnegie Tech 
Campus.
Judy Phyllis, retiring president, 
was presented with a gavel.
Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority 
is proud to announce the election 
of the following new officers to 
serve for the 1964-65 term.
President: Carol Schell, Vice 
President: Barbara Cerra, 2nd Vice 
President: Peggy Ross, Secretary: 
Eileen Mauclair, Treasurer: Re
becca Stone, Pledge Trainer: Jane 
OConnell, Rush Chairman: Joan Jacques.
Kappas Pat Bonner and Kathy 
Matter are both busy for Scotch n 
Soda in which they have lead roles.
Advisors, outgoing officers, and 
incoming officers of Kappa spent 
the evening at Sodinis after the 
recent installation of officers.
Attention Men! Odds N Ends 
Day, sponsored by Delta Gamma 
sorority, is coming Saturday, April 11
From 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. 
and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., 
the DGs will administer SWAS 
to all fraternity houses and mens 
dormitories for a very small fee.
All Tech men are urged to as
semble their wrinkled clothing, 
missing buttons, dirty rugs, and 
tarnished trophies to prepare for 
the coming Delta Gamma Odds N Ends Day.
In Intra-Mural fraternity bask
etball, Sigma Nus B team took 
first place, giving them an over
all third place ratin'g. SNs wres
tlers also came out on top in the 
IM season.
A moonlight cruise on the Gate
way Clipper and an evening of 
dining and dancing highlighted 
White Rose, SN's formal, last
weekend. The two day festivities 
climaxed with the presentation 
of the sweetheart for 1964, Miss 
Margie Park.
Too busy to write home?
Then telephone. Its quick, inexpensive, and, for 
both you and your folks, the most satisfying way to keep in touch*L
On Saturday, March 21, Region
al Convention of Theta Xi chap
ters in this region was held here 
at Pi chapter. Cornell, Pennsyl
vania State University, Youngs
town, Rochester, Utica College of 
Syracuse, Indiana State, Clarion 
State, and California were repre
sented. Pi chapters representa
tives were Richard Blacker, Har
ald Eberenz, Robert James, and 
Russell Stlnebaugh. Each chapter 
presented an. important problem 
facing it; members suggested solu
tions. The conference was follow 
ed by a dinner and party.
Kappa Sigma fraternity will 
hold its annual Sweetheart Formal 
at Churchill Valley Country Club 
on April 11.
Grad Fee
Required
All Bachelor, Master, and Doc
tor Degree candidates are re
minded that a fee of $10.00 per 
degree is charged to each candi
date for graduation. This fee 
must be paid by April 15, 1964. 
Checks should be made payable 
to Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy and, if mailed, sent to the 
Registrars Office. To pay this 
fee in person, candidates should 
first come to the Registrars Of
fice, AH 145, for the necessary 
cards to take to the Cashiers. 'Of
fice.
LEWIS
Yherw i Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
TYPING
FAST  EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE S
Term Papers  Theses  Dissertations  Punctuations  Spellihg  Grammar CorreclAFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used Exclusively
lIOT ;bLL
Agent wanted to solicit orders forunique new low priced Champagne tone orchid corsage for May 10th Mothers Day detl livery. No investment required. Free sales kit. Free samples. Proven method now used at Notre Dame & Lehigh. Free delivery to recipient mother. Write immediately to: Flower Gift Service, 34 West 10th SI. NYC 11, N.Y.
The Largest Selection of j 
Imported and Domestic ^ 
Tobaccos  in the City
aOEIO aUmt
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
NationallyAdvertised Pipes
INSTANT
SILENCE
Study Anytime 
Anywhere
Sound attenuators as 
utilized by military 
and commercial jet air
craft ground crew per
sonnel are the perfect 
solution. For information 
write:
Academic. Aids 
P. O. Box 969 
Berkeley 1, Calif.
HAMLET ST. THEATER
OPENS SATURDAY 
Bert Carr
 in 
"NAUGHTY NIFTIES"
A Comical and Musical Look at Burlesque
THEATER UPSTAIRS 
KELEM wTSYHE RAUHDAD 1S8? *
H0N6 YOU IN THE
AN I'M/I 11
by ARTHUR NOPIT Xm
Seats $1.50 Sat. $2.00 Tues.-Sat. 8:30 Son. at 7:30 
Tickets on Sale at Pitt Book Center 
Reservations 621-4445


---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 8, 1961  CARNEGIE TARTAN Pace 3
five Area Colleges To Heat 
f{arbage Talk On Shakespeare
Five district schools have- joined to sponsor a series of 
separate lectures by an outstanding Shakespearean scholar 
n commemoration of the 400th anniversary of the Bards
birth.
\ Dr. Alfred B. Harbage, Cabot professor of English at i* ard, will discuss the aspects 
'The Shakespearean AfterImage, from April 7 through 
April 9 on the campuses of Car
negie Tech, the University of 
Pittsburgh, Duquesne University,
Chatham College and Mt. Mercy 
College.
)r. Harbages lecture at Car-7 
ie Tech coincides with the 50th 
.anniversary of the Department of 
^ma, the first school in the nation to offer a degree in the drarmilic arts.
Dr. Harbage is recognized for 
his critical and historical studies 
|on Shakespeare and the Eliza-. 
belhtm theater. He taught at. the
University of Pennsylvania, where______________________________
he earned his doctorate and was B; Matthews prepares the a taculty member at Columbia be- .
fore becoming associated with stGe fpr Enfer SollV <5o,d
Harvard in 1952. Some of his 
fe^)ks include: As They Like It; 
on Shakespeare and Morality, 
1947; Shakespeare and the Rival 
Traditions, 1952; and Theater lor 
Shakespeare, 1955.
The schedule of lectures is as 
follows:
Tuesday, April 7
1:30 p.m. A Life of Allegory,1 
Mt. Mercy College 
8:00 p.m. : The Myth of Per
fection, Chatham College .dnesday, April 8 
raOO p.m., These Our Actors, 
University of Pittsburgh 
.00 p.m.  The Judicious 
Grieve, Carnegie Tech 
Thursday,. April 9 
2:00 p.m.  The Fierce Dis
pute, Duquesne University
Civil Rights? 
^opie of Forum
What does it mean to be a 
Negro? Is there discrimination in 
Pittsburgh? If so, what can I do 
about it? These questions and 
others will be discussed at an 
open forum on Civil Rights to be 
held Thursday, April 9 from 7:00 
to 8:00 p.m. in Skibo 56. Mrs. 
James Jordan, whose husband is 
f^member of City Council, who .^elf is an active member of 
NAACP, the Urban League and 
numerous other civil rights move
ments, and a member of the Pitts
burgh YWCA Board of Directors, 
will be the discussion leader.
The meeting is open to Y mem 
bers and participants and any 
other interested individuals.
YnHIOl
ANNUAL
PUBLISHERS'
REMAINDER
SALE
Hundreds of titles.............
lowest priccs . . . . also 
beautiful prints . . . framed 
and unframed .. .
In addition . . . our lirst Classical Records Sale .  ex-tfcllent selections ... at worth- pliile reductions in price . . .. . Wonday, Tuesday and Wednesday .... April 13, 14, and 15.
goEofo aUUuYfUOl
Sochatoff To 
End Series
The Tragedies," the last in the 
series of Shakespeare lectures 
conducted by the English De
partment will be given by Dr. 
A. Fred Sochatoff on April i4 at 
11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts The
ater.
Dr. Sochatoff will approach his 
subject by emphasizing the theory 
that deviations from moderation 
produce tragedy in King Lear, Antony and Cleopatra and to a 
minor degree in Macbeth, Othello, 
and Romeo and Juliet.
Dr. Sochatoff is an associate 
professor in the English Depart
ment and taught at Shadyside 
Academy before coming to Car
negie Tech in 1948. An authority 
on Shakespeare, he lectures and
ites on the subject, Drama and 
Shakespeare, extensively. Dr. 
Sochatoff was the first recipient of 
Ryan Award for effective 
teaching to undergraduate stu
dents in 1961. He received his 
B.A. from the University of Penn
sylvania in English and his Ph.D. 
from the University of Pittsburgh 
in the Classics.
Expression Engineers
(This is the second in the Tar, tan's departmental series.'It de
scribes the department of Drama 
d.)
The Department of Drama is 
unique among Carnegie Techs 
various ones, in that dramats deal 
in the substance of themselves. 
Chemists study chemicals, Chemical Engineers build bridges be
tween atoms (or, as we said be
fore, make Ketchup- and Paint
ing and Design Majors deal in 
clay, pamt, materials, leaves,' or 
just about anything they can lay 
their hands on. The problem with 
working self-centeredly, as Dra
mats do, is that you get all wrap
ped up in your work or vice ver
sa and tend to make sweeping 
generalization about what youre 
doing (Acting . . . Its sustenance 
fulfillment, and a purpose for be
ing, rather than merely existing), 
strangely paradoxical in nature 
because you find your susten
ance' only so you can lose it com-, 
pletely under the hand of a cap
able director.
To teach this nebulous achievement, freshman dramats go 
through exercises which cause 
poor Maggie Murphs to gaze 
dumbfounded. To understand the 
role of the senses, in perception, 
students wear blindfolds, for one 
week; they learn how to cry on 
cue, think out of themselves 
(Im a basketball . . . What does a 
basketball do? Bounce! Bounce! 
Bounce!) and retell extremely, 
deep emotional experiences as they 
happened. A student tells of a 
.beautiful spring day, outdoors, 
creating this mood, and then, as it 
happened before his eyes, a dread
ful automobile accident. This is 
difficulty in acting: if youre going
 Photo by Huffir
Drama students construct the set for "Enter Solly Gold"
to kill yur wife in 6 minutes, 
you dont know it until you actu
ally do it. While knowing  every 
line of a whole play, they must 
act in Acts I and II as if they 
knew nothing of what will happen 
in Act III. Just try telling a story 
as it happened sometime; dont 
try to indicate what will come at 
the end by tone or a word. Its 
hard.
To understand the role of perceptions in self-knowledge, a 
drama student wears a blindfold 
for a week, tries brushing his 
teeth with his left hand, and eat
ing with his eyes closed, Even the 
most casual-looking dramat is en
gaged in intense self-analysis says 
one casual-looking girl. The casual
look is really a carefully con
structed makeup job combined 
with haute couture from the vil
lage. The black turtleneck, wrink
led shirt, long shaggy hair, wierd 
jewelry, tight levis, and scandals 
seems to be basic black for men 
and women alike.
Crew is an experience few dra
mats pass up (its compulsory), 
.Complete knowledge of the- backstage work is necessary for the 
man by the footlights. The whole 
stage is often dismantled and re
assembled. Students also run the 
actual shows presented in the 
Fine Arts Theater. These are done 
by juniors and seniors, almost ex
actly as a legitimate theater op
erates, from auditions to strike.
STUDENT SUMMER JOBS 
IN GERMANY
Through the .LUFTHANSA .GERMAN .AIRLINES 
Student Employment Program, it is now possible to 
obtain employment in Germany for this Summer. Those 
interested will have an excellent opportunity to further 
their German language studies. For further information 
contact Tech Travel Oflicp  AH 252.
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in CARNEGIREST
AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL 
ELECTRICAL, NUCLEAR, 
and METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING MECHANICS 
APPLIED MATHEMATICS 
PHYSICS and 
ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
THURSDAY, APR. 9
Pratt &WhitneyRircraft
Appointments should ba made 
in advanc9 through your 
College Placement Officeu 
p
I
An Equal Opportunely Employer
Write for application and 
further information to 
Engineering Unit E 
New York City 
Personnel Department 
299 Broadway. New York 7, N. Y.,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April *, 1964
Editorial
Moving The Midway
When the decision to have the Spring 
Carnival midway on the lot behind Morewood Gardens was announced, we thought 
the Carnival committee had chosen the ideal 
spot. Now we learn that the site has been 
moved back to the parking lot on Forbes 
Avenue.
Perhaps the decision to relocate the mid
way site was tased on a financial reason. 
We cannot see why it would cost less to fur
nish electricity on the parking lot than it 
would to tap it from Morewood. However, 
if the operations department is handling the 
electrical connections, the problem is explain
ed. Few organizations, even the United States 
government, could be more inefficient and 
costly as Carnegie Techs Operations and 
Maintenance department.
Setting up the booths behind Morewood 
would offer many advantages to the frater
nities, Carnegie Tech students, and even the 
customers who will visit the booths. First of 
all., the Morewood lot offers everyone a 
beautiful view of Oakland. Second, the 
fraternities would have found it easier to 
erect a booth using the earth to sink posts as 
a foundation rather than building their own 
on an asphalt pavement. Third, the location 
behind the womens dormitory would proReeders Write
vide much of the fraternity spirit necessary 
for building a winning booth. Perhaps the 
noise of the fraternity men working late at 
night would disturb some of the women, but 
we predict that many would be leaning out 
of their windows watching the booths take 
their form and even joking with the workers 
below. Some furj is needed in building these 
displays. Its hard to rationalize- building 
them for other reasons. The noise and excite
ment could only attract more fraternity men 
from their dorms to pitch in and help their 
brothers. This spirit is not offered on a dark 
parking lot with no one watching you but 
two campus policemen.Last of all, the parking space in the Skibo 
lot would be needed for both the Friday night 
concert and the Saturday night dance, as well 
as for the other people from Pittsburgh who 
will patronize the booths.
One objection that the school might have 
to erecting the midway behind Morewood is 
their fear that the feeling of spring, and 
having so many men working near the wom
ens dormitory so late at night might provoke 
after-hours excitement. We cannot see much 
wrong in that. There hasnt been much of it 
around here lately.M. L. S.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Coercion
Many (more accurately most) of the more organiza
tionally active students at Tech sincerely- think other Tech 
students should hold the same values. If some dont? Well, 
then they should be forced to bend before the obviously" 
better standards. Witness the incomprehension of many 
when Student Congress refused to force every senior to 
buy a yearbook to lower the cost for those who want one: 
Should not people who are So stupid as to not want a 
Thistle be beneath contempt? Would it not be better for* 
our wise student leaders to look out for these poor souls'* 
welfare (since they are so stupid as to think they dont want 
a Thistle)? Maybe next year it will be proposed that every 
senior be,made to buy a hew suit. Choice of color would 
allow ample expression of individual tastes.
Dont get . me wrong, I think the Thistle is a valuable 
memento, and well worth the cbst. But I would never pre
sume to tell anyone else that he must buy one. If a 
person decides that he doesnt want one, I do hot consider 
myself a better judge of his desires. Some persons seem to g 
think that if a majority confirms their judgment, then any%| 
disagreement just shows the inferiority of the dissenter.
If such ideas were limited to Carnegie Tech, then they 
would, not be cause for much concern. But unfortunately a 
majority of Americans seems to subscribe to the theory in 
many instances. This is especially dangerous in the realm,-.C /{_---------\ a i----------------------------------------' ' 1 1,1.._____j xium Ad uOllgClUUD 111 MiC ICdlUl
_ f 1 - - TT of politics (in my opinion). A free society should listen to
if T r* G QsKVitfAcI I S .1 rfcl*ilT*V rS OTfrFS opinion from all sources. However, today many opinions and
O 15  J arguments are disregarded by simply labeling them extremist. Socialists and Birchers are obviously wrong; 
therefore they should not be listened to. All discussion^ 
should be limited to the middle spectrum of political activity.Span<-e Librarians, 
But Extend Hours
Editor, The Tartan:
"While appreciating the exellent facilities we have in the 
Hunt. Library, may. we offer a 
 suggestion which might be of 
interest to' not too small a cross-section. of students.
To be fair, one couldnt posYour Man 
In Congress
by Tim Hiss
This is election season in Student Congress. Last Wed
nesday the Committee Chairman of Student Congress met 
to nominate candidates for the offices of Chairman and ViceChairman of Student Congress. Joe Sandulli and Ben Porter 
were nominated for the position of Chairman; Dick Elder 
was nominated for vice-chairman. Further nominations will 
be made from the floor of todays Congress meeting.
The Spring Carnival Midway will be held on the Skibo 
parking lot, estensibly due to the prohibitive cost of having 
the school provide electricity for the displays. Also, after 
many weeks of planning and controversy, permission to 
have a ferris wheel was obtained.The Union Committee announced a TGIF for this Friday 
from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. in the Snack Bar.
Interested students may pick up applications for Student 
Congress Representative nominations in Dean Stricks office 
starting today. They are due April 17. Elections will be 
held April 20 for all departmental representatives. .
This Week In Pittsburgh
MUSICBeaux Arts Trio, April 8, 8:30 p.m., Kaufmann 
Auditorium, YM&WHA, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., 
Oakland .Pittsburgh Symphony Subscription Series, April 10 
to 8:40 p.m., April 12 at 3:10 p.m., Syria Mosque, 
Hindemith, Violin Concerto; Chausson, Poeme; 
Krenek, Eleven Transparencie, Tschaikowsky, Suite 
from The Nutcracker/ Isaac Stern, violin.
*Oboe recital, April 11, 8 p.m., Exhibition Hall. James 
Stiwamson (PCC).
*Piano Recital, April 12, 8:30 p.m., Exhibition Hall, 
Helen Gossard. (PCC)*Organ Recital, April 12, 3:30 p.m., South Avenue, 
Methodist Church, Daryl Kemerer,
Duquesne University Tamburitzans in Concert, April 
12, 8:15 p.m., Syria Mosque.
LECTURESFalk Lecture Series, April 8, 4 p.m., April 9, 8 p.m., 
Skibo Ballroom, Howard K. Smith, Changing 
Challenges to .America.
Psychoanalysis and Existentialism Series, April 8,
8:15 p.m., YM & WHA, Jean-Paul Sartre, Rabbi 
Richard L. Rubenstein.
The Centaur by John Updike, April 8, 1:30 p.m.
Rabbi Richard L. Rubenstein.*Fiee and open to the public
sibly expect the library staff to 
work any longer (probably they 
are already overtaxed), so we 
have apparently a limitation to 
the possible working hours of 
the library.
On the other hand, whal the 
students need most is th li
brary itself rather than assist
ance from its staff for all the 
time; and there are many, we 
suppose, who would be glad to 
be able to use the library in 
off-hours such as week-ends and 
vacations, and could do very 
well without any assistance for 
those hours.
For keeping a watch on the 
library properties, a couple of 
persons in the first floor should 
suffice, or some such thing may 
be worked out. If this could be 
afforded, it would mean so many 
student-hours usefully spent.
In fact, if this privilege could 
be extended, the present work
ing hours for the library staff 
could even be curtailed (if de
sired), which might be wel
come to them.
In addition, this would be 
heavenly for the students on 
campus in summer, who other
wise find the library closed just 
in time when they come out of 
their labs (or wherever they 
work).
Sincerely,
Bijoy PatnaikGrad. Phys.
. Rama ReddyGrad Phys.
Applications For 
Keys Released
The Activities Committee of 
Student Congress is releasing Ac
tivities Keys applications today. 
Any junior or senior who has 
contributed a good deal of time 
and effort to campus organiza
tions may compete a form. .
Applications will be judged on 
a points  system, based.on the 
number of years and type of 
work th applicant has. contrib
uted. Activities Keys will be 
awarded at Spring Carnival.
- Interested students may obtain 
applications from Dean Stricks 
office, Room 103 Skibo. Com
pleted forms should be mailed 
to the Activities Committee, c/o 
Student Congress, before 4:30 
p.m., April 20.
Presented so baldly, the above philosophy does not 
sound defensible (although it.is). The point is many persons 
think they reject such ideas while they implicitly accept, 
and, in fact, further them; Given the alternative of choosing 
either a society where values are an individual matter or 
one where everjrone must accept some standard, most per
sons would choose the former, But they make exceptions for i 
the cases where they can impose their particular values; this: 
leads directly to the latter. 1
Tyranny of the majority has often been a subject of 
this column. Perhaps the subject is losing interest for read
ers; the writer feels compelled to plug for individual free
dom  even if the subject is passe.
* CAR N EG I E
TARTAN
CAHNCfllE INSTITUTS OF TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief...............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ......... ....................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor .....................................AI Pollock
Business Manager . . ................. Michael McCoy
News Editor ....................................... Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ..............................Alma Rock
Features Editor....................................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ............................ Scott McCormick
Layout Editor ................................ . Drew Lippay
Copy Editor ............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ........................Erie Feldmann
Secretary Editor ................. .......................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50. %
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, fcorbes Avenue; Pittsburgh 13, PaOffice phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief,  MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-0895;- Advertising Manager, MU.
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and. examination 
periods by the students oi Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Advisory Board: John .Blue, Frank Brady, Charles'Ho Fook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva, Martha Siegel.
News Staff: Bob Fritz, Bob Criscom, EUssa Parker, Grelchen Smith, Bob WohUotd. Be->Vrite. Staff: Sard Cromley, Mark Ferdman, Callie Gilleland, Morris Gold- stein,.'Janet Weslover.
Features Staff: Susan Attinson, Leslie.Buchman, Becky Emerson, Miriam Gillespie, Jane Keeler Marian Mulligan, Karen Mihm, ' Sharon' Shuttleworth, NancyCameron. . . . . .. 
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, Al Green, BiD-Hartlep, Chris Macosko.
Business Staff: Eric Feldman, George Meiriman. Dick Moore.Layout SUIT: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Bevercly Phlloisky, Ted 
Pierce, Barbara Thorton. Marylu Recco, Brucc McDonald, Sharon Shuttleworth. Copy Staff: Helen Beatty, Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Mike Greenawalt, Verna Ream. Glnny Salko, Gii\ny Uiiss, Lorraine Vinograd, Rick Shriner, ChrJs Zimmerman.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarlan Beth Carien. Junls Cummings, Pat Hartman, Carol Karnel), Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll; Lorraine Vino* grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Staff: George Kali. J E. MUIer. Tom Chamberlin. A-Photo  staff: -Tom'Clements, Jim Pawley, Joe' OConnor, - Johns Oslas, Howa Schwartz.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April S. 196  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 9
? Ceilidh Folk Singers To Bring 
Faust And Rasmussen To Tech
(continued from page 1) 
tradition, also illuminated his 
work, and his guitar playing was 
exceptionally able. Rasmussen 
has periodically appeared at 
Greenwich Villages Gaslight 
Cafe, singing not only with Luke, 
but with Dave Van Ronk and 
Jack Elliott as well.
Others on the program for the 
concert include Myra Elmers, the 
star of . last years concert, an 
ethnic Appalachian singer; Carla 
Glasser, who has delighted audi- ences in Rochester, Baltimore, and 
** Washington as well as Pittsburgh, 
and who will introduce some of 
the songs which she recently 
found in her search for traditional 
ballads in Scotland; and Dwayne 
Thorpe, a member of Techs Eng
lish department, and a singer who 
grew up in the blues-shouting tra-' 
dition of Leadbelly -and Blind 
Willie Johnson, as well as the 
Great Plains tradition of .his na^ live Kansas.
Since the number of tickets 
available is limited to 200, 
Howard Glasser, the faculty di[ rector of the Ceilidh, reminds 
those who wish to attend the con
cert . that they should purchase 
their tickets early. The price of 
admission is $1.00, and tickets 
may be purchased at the Carnegie 
Tech bookstore or at the door the 
Friday night of the Ceilidh concert.
Shapiro Opens 
Cuban Seminar
(continued from page 1) 
seminar at 10 a.m. along with Dr. 
Roy Curry of Tech in evaluating 
and stating the apparent assump
tions being made by present 
American foreign policy towards 
Cuba. Other Tech students and 
faculty will serve as resource 
leaders and as panel members. 
This program again will be spon
sored by the Tech YM and YW, 
and the American Friends Service 
Committee. Tech students inter
ested in participating in the semi
nar should contact the Y office, 57 Skibo.
WALLYS
Campus-Favored
MEN
HUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS FLORSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATS
DRESS SHOES
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Av. (Across from Strand Theater)
SUMMER JOBS
for STUDENTS
NEW S64 directory lists 20,000 summer job 
openings in 50 states. MALE 01: FEMALE. Un
precedented research for students includes exact 
pay rates and job details. Names employers and 
their addresses for hiring in industry, summer 
camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., et&. 
Hurry!! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satis
faction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Di
rectory  P.O. Box 13593  Phoenix, Arizona.
Udst,Eay Ud13ECt 
dUf UG YdUv
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT BOGS IN TOWN
 MUSTARD  MAYONNAISE RELISH 9 SAUERKRAUT
 ONION  CHILE PICKLE KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHKKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER  $1.5)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZ2 (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER  $1.00)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET *21-7388  482-846
HavakTo Give 
Graphics Class
Rudolph de Havak, a graphic 
artist who designs covers for pa
perback books, record jackets, 
and other packaging devices, will 
serve as a visiting instructor in the 
Department of Graphic Arts at 
Carnegie Tech for four weeks, be 
ginning Monday, April 6. ~
Mr. de Havak will teach graphic 
design to juniors and seniors on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays and will 
be available for student consulta
tions on Wednesdays.
A show of his  125 graphic 
design pieces, including 14 paint
ings  was displayed in the 
Porter Garnett Gallery last De
cember. -
FURNITURE
to 40% off
9x12 RUGS 
$15 to $49
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.
Next to Shadyside Post Office 
631-1025 
Open 10 a.fn. to 9 p.m.
mlYflOT
HTEUT
fltlGOIvd
COMPANY
The Western Union 
Telegraph Company 
has several openings 
in its Field Engineer
ing organization for 
BS-EE graduates.
Assignments include 
testing a n d initial 
check-out of modern 
solid-state High-speed 
Data Systems, BroadBand Voice Switch
ing Networks, Microw a v e Transmission, 
and computer theory 
and programming, 
also field technical 
support of these sys
tems on a continuing 
basis.
A variety of challeng
ing assignments are 
available.
Contact:
. C. H. Dalyjcymple, 
Area Plant Supt.,
230 South lth St., 
Phila., 7, Pa.
(Phone: Walnut 3-1700)
Mr. Dalrymple . will be 
interviewing on campus 
on April 8th.
IJJWOC
VflLIl
EW
$240.00
Is all it costs to fly by jet to Europe 
and back. That Is, if you purchase a 
Volkswagen and apply the savings of 
about $159.00  compared with the 
price in Pittsburgh  towards the 
cost oi the air fare. Sounds great? It 
IS grem. Go on your owTS, or join 
us on M. W. Motors Tour, leave on. 
August 4, return in time for fall term. 
For more Information call Mr. Paul 
Muxfeldt at M. W. Motors and ask for 
the March issue of Beetle'Talk and 
Tourist Delivery information.
Todays Best Buy:
*57 VW Sedan
Folly Equipped  One Owner
$695
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Kt 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
***$!'
1 Junior Year 1 ini New York
An unusual one-year 
college program.
Wrile for brochure JY-4
 Junior Year Program
i Washington Square > l>n"ot
 College
 Hew York University 
! New York 3, N. Y.
THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH
THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND
IK~Qep gg ako8
True actistry Is expressed in the brillianti 
;fashion styling of every Keepsake diamond:
;engagement ring. Each setting is -a master
piece of design, reflecting the full brilliance 
'And beauty, of the center diamond . . . a; 
perfect gem of.flawless clarity, fine color: 
tend meticulous modern cut.
. The.name, Keepsake, in the ring and on 
the tag is your assurance of fine quality* 
end lasting satisfaction. Your very per
sonal Keepsake diamond ring is awaiting 
your selection at your Keepsake Jewelers 
store. Find him in the yellow pages. Prices 
from $100 to $2500. Rings enlarged to show 
beauty of detail Trade-mark registered.
K0W TO PUM YOUR ENGAGEMENT ANff WEUQiNS
Pleoie rand two new book!Ms, "Hp* to Plan Your Engag* ffttnt and Wadding1' and "Choosing Your Diamond Ring,'1 
both for only 25c. Al end poetai offer of beautiful 44 poge BrWe'i Book
L|tPS|frKC R2WDSAY4DA,PI YMAcaw.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. April *, 19S4
With Three
There is enthusiasm on the 
Carnegie Tech campus! It comes 
out each spring when fifty exu
berant, ambitious; and hypertense 
individuals join together to create 
a new Scotch n* Soda production.
Evnod, this years original 
musical comedy, now in produc
tion, has. brought together stu
dents from virtually all depart
ments. There's a male lead from 
Engineering, a playwright from 
GSIA, a female lead from E*D.& S, 
another from humanities, a chore
ographer from graphics, a di
rector from- Fine Arts (where 
else?) and actors, actresses, tech
nicians, and musicians from all 
over the place.
Struggling against all odds, at 
all. hours, in all sorts of strange 
locales, they race the calendar 
to complete a staggering job: 
All this Joy must hove a. reason. The above happy faces belong mounting a full - scale musical 
to, I. to r.: Pat Bonner, S V S lead; Dick Moore male lead; production. Through a continuous, 
Ken Johnson, the Happy (?) Director; Denny Kahle, Becky co-ordinated effort, sets get built, 
Smith, co-lead, and Sherm Himmelblau. music gets composed, dances be
come perfected, characterizations 
get polished, and Evnod comes 
to life as the 64 SnS production.
Some of Km S V S Construction Crew: I. to r Ken Moses, Carolyn Ornstein, Flash Ferrainolo, and Robin Bradley, Stage 
Manager.
The two Scotch V Soda leads, in rehearsal: Pat Bonner, who 
plays Katie, and Dick' Moore, who plays Brian.
This above group of highly con
templative people is none other 
thaii the VIPs of Scotch n Soda 
 the production staff. Left to 
right are: Sherm Himmelblar, con
ductor; Larry Miller, coreographer; Dave Hildebrand, writer; Ken 
Johnson, director, who is terribly
excited about the show; Regina1 
Ress, president of the Scotch n I 
Soda . corporation; Ken Moses 
(with Moses on your side, can 
G-d be far behind?), technical di
rector; Bob Rappaport, co-set de
signer; Denny Kahle, co-music 
writer. Absent from the picture
are: John Kavelin (rhymes with 
javelin)., co-set designer; Steve 
Coheb, lights; Joe McArdle, cos
tume designer, and Robin Bradley, 
stage manager.
The depressed-looking gentle
man in the background, with his 
Jiead down, is an unidentified Skibo patron.
You dont have to write a thesis to be a master
81 9M9Ac JtffcRX 
iARROWs
The above busy people are, I. to r.: Carolyn Ornstein, Flash 
Ferrainolo, Ben Andrews (who has nothing to do with Scotch 
and Soda), Ken Moses (Technical Director), and Shielah 
Rosenberg.
Attention SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
Who Need Some FINANCIAtHELP in Order to Complete Their 
Education This Year and Will Then Commence Work.
Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION. INC.A n*a-Wfit Ldacatlonal Fdn, CIO ENDICTT BLDG., 6T. PAUL I, MINN.
UNDERGRADS, CUP AND SAVE
makes you look like a master 
in a matter of minutes. Your 
swing will be better and 
so will your putting, for 
this shirt was designed for 
freedom of movement 
especially for golfers. Thats 
why the pocket is on the right 
This is the shirt that you saw 
ARROWS T.V. sponsorship 
MASTERS Tournament... it 
stood the test and looked as 
the last hole as it did at the$5.00
^ J\\ /
.W .\i

---------------------------------------------------

_____________________________________________________________ Wednesday, April I, 194  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
Scotchn Soda Members Are Excited!
The intense trie above is, I. to r Joseph Gayer, voice coach, Dave Hildebrand, writer and lyricist, and Chuck Gilmore, one of the leads.
Elia Kazan ponders a staging problem. In the background, Sherm, Denny and the Cast await the master's voice.______
THE ALPS-.mxIe in Italy by FABIANO
Handmade lapefted Boots (or the Outdoor Man and Woman...
. __Lug Soles. Ideol CAR
Rack Climbing ond Hiking. 
Podded Quorlers ond 
Tongue. WomenNE fo 
II Narrow ond Medium 
Men G  14 Nar
row, 6 to 12 Lorg* 
Size 13 end V4 
$3.00 E*ro).
FABIANO SHOE CO., INC.
DEPT. N, SOUTH STATION BOSTON JO, MASS.
JOBS ABROAD
STUDENTS and TEACHERS
Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent 
career opportunities in Europe, South America, Africa . 
and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 coun
tries. Gives specific addresses and names prospective 
U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally 
high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital 
guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs 
Abroad Directory  P. O. Box 13593  Phoenix, Ari
zona.
Above ore three geniuses (Yes. they don't look like much, but they're in disguise), of S V S: I. to r.: Sherm Himmelblau, conductor, Ken Johnson, director, and Denny Kahle, music writer. The piano is, "From the Top, Everyone.1* .
 Photos by Huffman and Bill .
R. G. MacDonald 
President, Potomac Edison
Td Bike to Stave you Join 
us at Potomac Edison"
 Boh MacDonald
COMPANY INFORMATION: The Potomac Edison Companies operate in parts of Maryland, 
Virginia, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, providing electrical service in an 8,000 square 
mile area. Principal cities served are Cumberland, Frederick, and Hagerstown in Mary
land; Waynesboro, Pa.; Winchester, Va. and Martinsburg, W. Va. Nearly 2,000 people 
are employed by the companies. The General Offices are located in Hagerstown, 
Maryland.
Position Openings:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS: Perform engineering and administrative duties in a line or 
staff capacity. Duties will be primarily dependent upon the department to which as
signed. Openings are available in the following departments:
Transmission & DistributionWork on special projects and studies, such as distri
bution planning studies, economic evaluation studies, and application of special equip
ment.
SubstationsDesign, construction, and maintenance of Substations. Analyze 
future growth programs, coordinate planning of work loads, negotiate with manufac
turers regarding technical features of equipment and recommend engineering changes 
and revision of equipment.
Engineering Planning & ResearchPerform studies of power supply with regard 
to generation and high voltage transmission; participate in studies of possible inter
connections with neighboring utilities; review and analyze the methods which might 
affect the production, transmission, distribution, or utilizations of electricity; program 
and accomplish computer studies; and establish proper balance between service stand
ards and over-all economy of construction and operation.
ELECTRICAL OR MECHANICAL OR INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS:
Industrial Power SalesProvide application engineering assistance to large power 
customers to aid in proper selection and installation of electric power consuming equip
ment Sell new. ideas to customers for the use of electrical equipment. Analyze and 
prepare engineering competitive proposals toward the accomplishment of the sale of 
electricity.
Campus Interview Date: Friday. April 10th
The Potomac Edison Companies

---------------------------------------------------

Facc i  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April g. IK*
frh4 mA:w U3r:r0k 
arh. ,rh:r..r cLcix'
April 4, a cool, bright day at Skibo Bowl proved to be 
a good day for the Carnegie Tech track team. The Tech track
men ran away with their initial meet of the 1964 season 
with the Jeannette Harriers. The final score going Tech-s 
way 101 to 39.
Tech won 12 of the 16 events. 
Leading the way for the Plaid 
were double winners Bob Diskin 
in the 100 and broad jump, Joe 
Thomas in the 330 intermediate 
hurdles and the 120 highs, and 
Hank Werronen in the discus and 
220. While Jeannettes four wins 
were accounted for by two men. 
Dale Angier in the pole vault and 
the high jump and Marius Lochra 
in the 880 and mile run. The rest 
of the meet was all Tech. As the 
Tartans took all three places in 
the high hurdles, shot, and hop, 
step and jump with two of three 
for the other contests.
In addition to the double win
ners strong performances were 
given by Techs Hamilton who ap
pears much improved over last 
year with a toss in the shot-put 
of 43 feet and 1% inches and 
Andy Niedra who won the 440 
with no one near him. It was a 
team victory as the participants 
from the home school looked strong on a wet, slow track.
When asked for his reaction, 
first year coach Ed Vamos offer-., 
ed that he was very pleased with 
winning and hoped it was an in
dication of things to come. Coach 
Vamos also commented on the 
good fan participation. He ex
pressed the wish that it would 
continue because it gives incen
tive to the team which is thankful 
for it.
Mile. 4:-IO.C  Locha (J), Macosko (T), Cairnis (J).
Mile Relay, 3:54.6  Tech, GJas, Polis, Crawford, Colins.
Two Mile, 10:39.0  Burkholder (T), Cairins (J), Bednarz <T).
' 330 Hurdles, 45.4  Thomas (T),Breueggemann (J>, Holdslein (T).
220 Hurdles, 24.8  Werronen <T), De Foe (T), Seaman (J).
130 Hurdles, 17.8  Thomas (T),Sharkey (T), Holdslein (T).
100 Hurdles, 11  Diskio <T>, De Foe (T), Robinson <J).
440 Hurdles. 51.0  Niedra (T), Brueg- gemann <J). Bednarz (T>.
Pole Vault, 11 feel  Angier <D, Bell (J). Williams (X).
Shot, 43 feet and 134 inches  Hamilton <T), Borofaky (T), King <T).
High Jump, C feel and 10 inches  Angier (J), Williams (T>, Bell (J). 
ad Jump. 20 feet and 104Dlskin <T), Bell (J), MacMillis 
Discus, 123 feet 
(T).
(T).
Lochra (J), Peck (J),
Football Squad 
Starts Workout
Head Coach Joe Gasparella has 
announced the beginning of spring 
football practice. Practice will run 
for two weeks, ending Friday, the 
18th.
Helping Coach Gasparella this 
spring will be Red' Mack, star 
flanker for the Pittsburgh Steelers 
and former All-American from 
Notre Dame.
The nucleus for this years team 
will be nine lettermen out of 
the fifteen who saw most of the 
action last season. The squad has 
lost six seniors and is hard pressed 
for additional players to ;fill the 
gap.
Individual specialities will re
ceive the brunt of the attention 
this spring as the team will, work' 
hard on passing, kicking, pass re
ceiving, and pass defense.
According to Coach Gasparella, 
freshmen and new players will 
have to play a key role on next 
years team. Football is a plaitoon game and depth is vital for 
a good season. This was quite evi
dent last season when Tech lost 
quite a few games in the last 
quarter when the strain began to 
wear down the few who played. 
Unless more go out for the squad, 
it looks as if the same thing could 
happen next year.
Anyone interested in trying out 
is urged to stop in the Athletic 
Department and pick Up addition
al information; on the spring prac
tice sessions.
Singing goes better refreshed. 
And Coca-Cola  with that special zing 
but never too sweet 
refreshes best. >
things PQbetter,i with
Bottled under the authority pi Th Coca-Cola Company by
. Quaker Slate Coca-Cola Bottling Company 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk Guitar
Fred Albitz  Featured at the Casbah 
and many other Pittsburgh spots  
and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons at The Peter Hughes Sciiool of MusicCall:31-1644.
.For rent  second floor room with adjoining bath, community*'kitchen, parking. On Baum Blvd. near Aiken, walking distance to Tech. Call 661-9911.
Good place to study, apartment for Cour
Earning Money In EuropeJOBSIN EUROPE
Every registered student can get a job in Europe and receive a travel grant. Among thousands of jobs available are resort, sales, lifeguard and office work. No experience is necessary and wages range to $400 monthly. For a complete prospectus, travel grant and job application returned airmail, send $1 to Dept. F, American Student Information Service, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Crand Duchy of Luxembourg.
T \ and (emea&
**-------4^ INC.
IS THE MARK OF OPPORTUNITY FOR BS, MS, PhD
ENGINEERS  CHEMISTS  SCIENTISTS
IN ADVANCED
CRYOGENICS AND CHEMICAL PROCESS TECHNOLOGY
For interview appointment
ON CAMPUS - APHBL 15
Please contact Mr. S. R. Cessna at Your Placement Office
AN INCREASING CHALLENGE IS OFFERED IN
ENGINEERING CHIEF ENGINEERS TECHNICAL 
STAFF
RESEARCH ANO 
DEVELOPMENT
 Chemical Process Ooyetopment
 Physical Chemistry, Physics
 Thermodynamics
 Applied Metallurgical & Chemical Engineering.
 Heat Mass Transfer* Fluid Dynamics
 Cryogenic Research
 Organic Chemical Process Development Process & Machinery Engineering
 Equipment Design, Cost
 Project Coordination
 Engineering Development
 Computer Application t Technical & Business Problems
MARKETING
 Industrial Gas ft Sales Distribution
 Chemical Producta & Plants
 Defense & Space Systems
 R & D Contracto
ADVANCED
PRODUCTS
 Cryo-PropellanU
 Advanced Machinery Design and Development
 Miniature Cryo-Befrigerator*
 MiniatureHeat Exchanger
 Cryo-Magnot & Cryoileetronta SdjwPwler*
? Career Development Program consisting of 2 to 4 planned six* 
month project assignments. A stimulating and informative op
portunity to contribute heavily while selecting the activity where your best potential exists.
? Immediate openings for direct placement are also available.
? Graduates with non-technical degrees may qualify for the 
Career Development Program directed toward Sales and Finance.
? Company location near New Yorfc and Philadelphia. Graduate 
study tuition refund plan at excellent nearby universities. Advanced personnel policies.
For additional information write Mr. Cessna,
Air Products fc Chemicals, Inc, Allentown, Penna,
An iquol opportunity tmplofir
