* C A R N E G I ETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 64 V- NUMBER 25WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1964
Tech Tuition For 65 Goes To $1700
$250 Rise Places - 
School With Others
Effective in September, 1965, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nologys all-inclusiye tuition will be increased to $1700 per, 
year according to an announcement mad* today by Dr' J. C. 
Warner, president.
Even with the new tuition increase, Carnegie Techstudents will continue to pay only ?-------;-------------- ----------------------------
about 50% of the cost of their vj  ^.Voting Opens 
For Delegates 
To Congress
Elections for departmental rep
resentatives to Student Congress 
will be held next Tuedayy April 
21, at 11:30 a.m.. in the respective 
departments. There will be no 
assembly next jiveek. Th list be
low indicates the location of the poll in your department.
Voting is within each department. The people elected will rep
resent the deprtamnt in Student 
Congress for the next academic year.
Applications for candidates and. 
communter petitions are still 
available in Dr. Stricks office, 
Skibo. Departmental applications 
are due this Friday at 4:30 p.m., both in his office. '
The departments will meet in 
the rooms, listed below.
Architecture  Fine Arts  203. 
Biological Sciences  MMCC  115 
Business and Social Studies  MMCC 
New Ad. Hall
For Campus; 
Scaife Gift
An administration hall, to be 
constructed through the generosity 
of Mrs. Alan M. Scaife and her 
family, will be the center of an 
entire new entrance to be develop
ed to the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology campus.
The receipt of a $1,600,000 gift 
from the Scaife family for that 
purpose was announced today by 
Carnegie Tech president Dr. J. C. 
Warner,
The administration building and 
entrance plaza represent the first 
step in the development of a new 
front door for the Tech campus.
Subsequent steps will include 
a two level parking structure to 
the west and development of an 
integrated site for an important 
future building.
The entrance plz will be de
veloped as an informal gathering 
place for students, containing at
tractively landscaped areas and 
benches. Located on the south side 
of Forbes Ave., the building will 
face Forbes near the intersection 
of Morewood Ave.
The building was designed by 
Charles Luckman Associates, of 
New York and Los Angeles, and 
will contain 44,000 square feet. 
Rising six levels above the ground, 
it will effect economics by bring
ing together .all of the administra
tive functions now widely spread 
around the campus.
 This new administration build
ing is the second structure made 
possible by the Scaife family since 
the start of Techs development 
program in 1957. The other, the 
Alan M. Scaife Hall of Engineer
ing was formally dedicated in 
October, 1962, and was built with 
a $1,250,000 gift. It is located 
on Frew St., at the Schenley Park 
entrance to the campus.
Ground breaking ceremonies for 
the new structure are expected to he held early this summer. It is 
hoped the building will be ready 
for occupancy by September. 1965.
Termed by the architect, . a 
model administration^ building, it 
is the thirteenth major structure 
erected at Tech since the ten-year 
development program began in 1957.
The other are Hamcrschlag Hall, 
Doherty Hall, three fraternitydormitory complexes, major addi
tions to Mudge Graduate House 
and Morewood Gardens, the new 
stadium and athletic facility, the 
campus activities center, the Hunt 
Library, a major addition to Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College 
for Women, and the Alan M. 
Scaife Hall of Engineering.
C. L. McCabeE. Schatz
Deans Schatz, McCabe 
To Head New Positions
Two new major administrative appointments were an
nounced today by James M. Bovard, chairman of the board 
of trustees at Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Dr. Edward R. Schlatz has been named Vice President 
for Academic Affairs, and Dr. G. Law McCabe has been 
appointed as Vice Prsident for$- 
Research.
According to Dr. J: C. Warner-,
Carnegie Tech president, The 
size and scope of our education
al and research programs, and the 
projected future growth of these 
programs, indicate to us the need 
for persons with strong academic 
experience in these positions. Our 
expansion in the fields of ma
terials science, applied space sci
ence, urban design, the new mas
ters' program in Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College, and other 
elds, will require the thought 
and planning of full-time people 
on a top administrative level.
Dr. Schatz received his B.S.,
M.S., and D. S. degrees from Car
negie Tech and joined the faculty 
in 1946. In 1952, he was made 
associate professor and assistant 
head of the department of elec
trical engineering, and from 1957- 
60, he served as acting head of 
the department of mechanical en
gineering. He was named asso
ciate dean of the College of En
gineering and Science in 1960, and 
since November, 1961, has 
served as Dean of Research.
Dr. McCabe received his B.S. 
degree from Dickinson College 
and his D. Sc. from Carnegie 
Tech. He came to Tech in 1951 
following three years as an in
structor at Harvard. In 1960, he 
was named head of the depart
ment of metallurgical engineer
ing and director of the metals 
research laboratory at Tech, and' 
in 1961 was appointed as Asso
ciate Dean for Graduate Studies.
Since last September, he has 
served as dean of graduate stud
ies, a position in which he will 
continue.
The appointments will become ; 
effective on May 1, 1964.
Thistle Seeks 
Staff Editors 
For Next Year
Now in the process of scouting 
new major editors for the coming 
academic year, the Thistle will, 
soon be selecting candidates. All 
students who feel qualified or in
terested are urged to apply for the 
following* positions:
Editor-In-Chief, Associate Edi
tor, Business Manager, Assistant 
Editor, Photography Editor, Copy 
Editor, Layout Editor, Public- Re
lations Editor, Organizations Edi
tor, Senior Editor, Sports Editor, 
Faculty Editor, Greek Editor, Por
trait Editor, Sales Manager, Ad
vertising Manager.
There is no limit to the number 
of positions for which an applicant 
may apply* and no one should fear 
applying for many.
Application blanks may be ob
tained in Dr. Stricks Office. The 
deadline for submissions is 4:30 
p.m., April 22. Applications may 
be sent through campus mail to 
the Thistle, Box 122, or brought 
directly to Dr. Stricks Office.
education at Tech. Since, Tech re
ceives no tax support of any kind, 
the other half of the expense 
must come from other sources 
such as earnings on endowment.
Following are tuition charges
in other privateEastern Universitles for the1963-64 academie year:
1963-64
Carnegie Tech___....$1450
Case Tcch............... 1700
Cornell........................ 1700
Pennsylvania .......... 1720
Princeton ....................1770
Rensselaer............... 1800
Rochester U. ................. 1800
When Techs tuition increase
does take effecta year and a
half from now, the charge will
be the same or[ess than tuition at the above mentioned;
schools for thepresent academie year.
Student Congress
There will be a mectiug of 
Student Congress next Wednes
day, April 22, at 4:30 in the 
Wlierret room, Skibo.
The next meeting of Student 
Congress will be held on Wednes
day, April 29, in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo at 4:30 p.m. for the 
election of Chairman and ViceChairman. (See page 4 for can
didates' platform.)
and gifts and grants received -from 
private corporations and individu
als.
Despite recent increases in the 
amount of tuition, students are 
paying for about the same por(continued on page 3)
ASME Holds 
Conference
This year Carnegie Techs stu
dent chapter of the American So
ciety of Mechanical Engineers will 
play host to the annual confer
ence of delegates from 20 saudent 
chapters in region 5 of A.S.M.E. 
One hundred delegates represent
ing 15 student chapters as far 
away as Waterloo, Ontario, Can
ada and Michigan, will be on 
campus Friday and Saturday, 
April 17 and 18.
One of the highlights of the 
conference will be the presenta
tion of papers by several dele
gates. This will take place on 
Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 12:15 
p.m. in G.S.I.A. auditorium and 
on Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 
11:45 a.m. in the Scaife. Hall 
auditorium. A .few of the papers 
to be presented are: Solar Re
frigeration, Are 50,000 Mile 
Automobile Warranties Practi
cal,? a n-d Should the United 
States Convert to the Metric Sys
tem?
, These papers will be delivered 
in competition for prizes. All 
those interested are urged to at
tend what promises to be a very 
interesting and informative series 
of talks.
114
Chemical Engineering  EH  2210 
Chemistry  EH  1112 
Civil Engineering  AH  123-H 
Drama ' Fine Arts  106 
Electrical Engineering  MH  li 
Graphic Arts  AH  340-B 
Home Economics  MMCC  14 
Humanities  MMCC  127 
Industrial Management .  GSIA  319 
'Mathematics  PH  125B 
Mcchanical Engineering  SH  212 
Metallurgical Engineering  EH  A-317
Music  Fine Arts  157 
Natural Sciences- MMCC  112 
Painting. Design, and Sculpture  Fine
SnS Tickets 
Now On Sale
Tickets for Scotch and Sodas 
1964 production Evnod, go on 
sale today! Evnod opens Mon
day, April 27 and closes four 
nights later on Thursday evening, 
kicking off Spring Carnival, which 
begins Friday morning.
This year, S n S is offering a special offer to readers"of the Tar
tan. With coupon on page 7, a 
ticket to the show on Monday or 
Tuesday evening costs only $1.75. 
The' price for tickets is normally 
$2.00, but S *n* S presents this 
special price because quite frank
ly, we like to sell tickets. And this 
year, our business manager is taking C-716.
Tickets will be sold iri Admin
istration Hall and in Skibo. 
Fraternities may purchase seating 
blocks from Jim Lipman at Beta 
Sigma Rho.

---------------------------------------------------

Paee 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. April 15, 1964
BULLETIN BOARD
Letters
There are special mail boxes in 
the Skibo snack bar, for letters 
1o the Senators from Pennsylvania 
urging that the "Civil Rights bill 
be passed without weakening 
amendments, and urging them to 
vote for cloture (limitation of de
bate) if necessary. If students 
and faculty believe in the im
portance of the passage of a strong 
civil rights bill they are urged to 
write.
A special freedom truck will 
pick up the letters from the Y 
Office on Friday, April 17. The 
deadline will therefore be April 
16. Each letter requires a 5 cent 
stamp.
Copiesof the bills summary 
will appear on the special mail 
boxes and may be obtained from 
the Y,, office. Room 57, Skibo.
I Modem Dance
I A concert of modern dance, dij rected .by- Joanna Gewe.rtz and 
; performed by members of the 
[Dance Workshop class, will- be 
i given on Sunday evening, April 
; 19 at 8 p.m. in the Fine Arts The;. atre. The program consists of 
 works by the students and Miss 
; Gewertz. Music for the program 
; is under the direction of Thomas 
j Witt, a sophomore in the Depart' ment of Music.
The Delphic Oracle
CFO
Applications for a summer proj
ect with the Council of Federated 
Organizations are available at .the 
University of Pittsburgh School 
of Social Work and the NAACP 
office on Grant Street.
CFO is a joint organization of 
SNCC, NAACP, the Student Chris
tian Leadership Conference, and 
CORE.
For further information, call 
Linda Johnson at 682-6865 or 
Freda Kellams at 621-3500, exten
sion 7381.
Pi Delta Epsilon
There will be a Pi Delta Epsilon 
meeting on Monday, April 20 at 
4:30 in room 46. The agenda in
cludes elections for next years 
officers and . discussion of the 
calls to be made during Spring 
Carnival.
FURNITURE
to 40% Off
9x12 RUGS $15 to $49
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.Next to Shadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
CARRN CEGIST
Were swamped .... with new paperbacks . . . and would like to recommend for your reading .. . TEACHER and THE THOUGHT by Ronald Gross . . . ART of TECHNICAL WRITING by Eugene Ehrlich . . . . DARK ANGEL by Mika Waltari . . . COOKS POCKET TRAVEL GUIDE to EUROPE . . . THE RIVER ROAD by F. A. Keyes . . . THE SURGEON by W. C. Heinz . . . TRIUMPH by Philip Wylie . . . SILENT SPRING by Rachel Carson . . . THE ABSOLUTE TRUTH ABOUT MARRIAGE by Lois Wyse . . .
. . . Light weight jackets for balmy Spring weather .... $6.25 . . . Our short sleeve Sweat Shirts are a real buy at $2.49. ' >AUOUFU
HRRLCFRST
Role Conflict
The second in a series of lectur-es aimed at examining the role 
; of educated women in American 
| Society w7ill be given at Carnegie 
[Tech on Tuesday, April 14.
The guest speaker will be Char
lotte Babcock, professor of psy
chiatry at the University of Pitts
burgh. She will speak on: Role 
Conflict and the Professional 
Woman, at 3:30 p.m. in Breed 
Hall of Margaret Morrison Car
negie College.
The series is conducted as part 
of the senior honors course at 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege and is intended to examine 
the many aspects of the rapidly 
changing role of women.
Other speakers scheduled for 
the program are: Professor Eli 
Ginsberg, of the Columbia Uni
versity and Dean David Hender
son, of Chatham College. The first 
lecture was given by Professor 
Erik H. Erickson, of Harvard University.
The Carnegie Chapter of Delta 
Upsilon was host to a provincial 
conference the weekend of April 
3-5. Delegates attended from all 
DU chapters in Province IV 
(Pennsylvania, including Bucknell, Carnegie, Lafayette,-Lehigh, 
Penn, Penn State, and Swarthfmore. The special guest of the con; ference was Mr. Orville- Reed, 
j chairman of the board of directors 
; of DU national. Following semi! nars and business meetings, the 
 conference was closed with a par| ty Saturday night, 
j Delta Upsilon is proud to an! nounce the election of new officers 
| for the forthcoming year: Presi| dent, Dave DAppolonia; ViceI President, Andy Icken; Secretary, 
| Gary Leach; Treasurer. Jim Giar: dina, Steward, John Polles; House 
manager, Jeff Riley; Social Chair
men, Dick Sawchak and Lee 
Ringler; Rush 'chairman, Dave 
Heil; Pledgemaster, Fred Swis: 
Chapter Relations, Bob Biggart, 
and CFP Representative,  Dick 
Merrill.
June Wilkinson was a dinner 
guest at DU Wednesday night, 
April 8. Miss Wilkinson, a fre
quent feature in Playboy, is cur
rently appearing in Pajama Tops" 
at the Nixon Theatre.
Theres a new animal at DU 
these days ... a real four-legged 
one. Champ Maximillian III  
Max, to the brothers  is a pedi
gree Dalmatian, a gift to the 
house from Sue Steiner.
Phi Kappa Theta announces its 
new officers for the period "begin 
ning April 5, 1964.
President Gary Lindstrom
Vice-President Joseph Lusardi 
CFP Rep. Arthur Eisenhour
Treasurer Edward Jesteadt
Asst Treasurer John Yavorsky
House Manager Laun Weiers 
Steward Rodger Leonard
Social Chairman Peter Topoly 
I Secretary Donald Fitspatrick
; Sgt.-at-Arms William Froelich
j The Phi Kaps annual Spring 
! Formal was held at the Adams 
| House in Irwin on April 3. The 
; Lobster dinner was excellent, and 
the music Walt Harper set the 
mood for an enchanted evening, 
The Phi Kaps annual Spring 
Orientation was held at the Phi 
Kap House from April 8-11.
Major breakthroughs in buggy 
design and construction have been 
reported by the Phi Kap Chariot 
workers. No details can be given 
before May 3.
Honorary Seats
Election for seats representing 
all activities honorariesOmicron 
Delta Kappa, Mortar Board, Delta 
Skull, Phi Tau Gamma, Scimitars, 
and Cwens  on the Executive 
Council of Student  Government 
will be held on Monday, May 4, at 4:30 p.m. in Room 40, Skibo.
Voting by proxy ballot will be 
accepted if approved forms are 
used. These forms must include 
the candidates name, position 
sought, the organization in which 
the candidate will be a member, 
the date, and the candidates signature.
All candidates must be present.
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity is 
proud to announce the addition of 
five new members. This makes the 
Delts the only co-ed, integrated 
fraternity on campus. Our new 
members? Puppies  four black, 
one white. Life begins at Delta 
Tau Delta.
The father? Who knows, but 
Ron Konnick is passing out 
cigars!
Panhellenic meeting was held 
on Tuesday, April 7. Lynne Jen
kins will serve as Greek Sing 
Chairman next year. Social Chair 
man is Marlene Demarco and the 
Projects Chairman is Susan Hart
man. Presently, Panhellenic 
planning next years sorority 
rush.
HAMLET ST. THEATER
BERT CARR
6NAUGHTY NIFTIES99
A MUSICAL!
THEATER UPSTAIRS 
HELEN WAYNE RAUHMDAH ' %Mm Yisk IN Till? DESSI an* IM ^
by ARTHUR KOPIT
Seals $1-50 Sat. $2.00 Tues.-Sal. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30 
Tickets on Sale at PiU Book Center 
Reservations 621-4445
On March 20 at the Home of 
Mrs. Thayer Curry, the Omicron 
Delta Chapter of Chi .Omega initi
ated Ann Cruickshank, Barbara 
Hiller, Barbara Lowden, Jane 
Schoenfeld,  Sharon Smith and 
Kate Stader.
The Pittsburgh Alumnae spon
sored The Spring Eleusian Ban
quet at the University Club on 
Saturday, April 4. Members of the 
Pitt Chapter joined with the Tech 
Chi Os to celebrate the found
ing of the sorority.
On Wednesday, April 8, ChiOmega received two new pledges. 
The formal pledging of Peggy 
Hayes and Adele Freidrich was 
followed by a steak and bean scholarship dinner.
The Delta Gammas would like to thank all of the men on 
Tech's campus for their co-op
eration in making our Odds and 
Ends Day a success. We enjoyed 
working for you and hope we 
can serve you again.
TYPING
FAST a EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dissertations  Punctuations  Spelling  Grammar CorrectAFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
Girls, do you want to put a 
man in your life; men, have mid
terms left you feeling pretty low; 
or do you just want to boost your 
ego a bit and get back in the 
swing of things. Then Sigma Nu 
has just the thing for all of you. 
Yes it is time for the annual 
Roman Slave Auction^
With over 60 brothers on sale 
this year, there is a bargain for 
everyone. So if you have a job to 
be done, come early and beat the 
crowd. Bidding starts at 1:00 p.m., 
Saturday, April 25, on the Sigma 
Nu lawn. All proceeds will go to Campus Chest.
The brothers of Alpha Tau 
Omega held their annual Virgin 
Island party on Friday at the ATO 
house. Tony Eastmans murals, 
Gale Morgans little.grass shack, Mom Pattons lavish spread of 
shrimp and fruit, music by the 
Avalons, and a colorful (if 
skimpy) array of South Sea Island 
costumes helped make this ATOs 
biggest party of the year.
Delta Delta Delta announces 
that applications are available for 
a Tri-Delta scholarship which is 
awarded annually. Any woman 
student at Tech is eligible to ap
ply. The scholarship is worth 
about $200.
Applications for the scholarship 
can be obtained in the Dean of 
Womens office. All who are inter
ested are urged to apply. Please 
return applications to the Deans 
office by May 4, 1964. For fur
ther information, contact Nancy 
Adams, 661-4912.
City Planning
A new cooperative program here 
in architecture and urban design 
will offer unique training for per
sons interested in the crucial area 
of city planning. A distinguished 
British planner, David Lewis, is 
heading the program.
INSTANT
SILENCE
Study Anytime 
Anywhere
Sound attenuators as 
utilized by military 
and commercial jet air
craft ground crew per
sonnel are the perfect 
solution. For information 
write:
Academic Aids 
P. O. Box S69 
Berkeley 1, Calif.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3916 FORBES AVENUE 
 . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
JOBS ABROAD
STUDENTS and TEACHERS
Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent 
career opportunities in Europe, South America, Africa 
and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 coun
tries. Gives specific addresses and names prospective 
U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally 
high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital 
guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs 
Abroad Directory  P. O. Box 33593  Phoenix, Ari
zona.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 15, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
Sororities Introduce Queen Choices
Sandy ByrneOllie DonaldsonElizabeth Kim
Tartans April Fools Headline 
^Becomes Reality As Carnegie 
Tech Decides To Raise Tuition
3 (continued from page 1)
I tion of their education as they
i paid for ten or fifteen years ago.
| R. D. Strathmeyer, vice presi5 dent for business affairs, pointed
| oat that Carnegie lech's 1964-65
_ ^budget will be more than one 
i million dollars higher than that
\ of this year. He. added that budg| et projections for 1965-66 show
| that without t h e tuition raise,
| Tech will operate at a substantial
| deficit. The largest items in the
| increasing costs, he said, are in\ crcases in faculty salaries, addi^. ^tion of new faculty, and implejf'Jtanentation of new educational pro? grams.
\ Thistle Staff 
| Kicks Off
I Sales Drive
lZ)| Lets not avoid the issue: the
| 1964 Thistle is the greatest,  most
\ comprehensive yearbook that Car; negie Tech has ever seen. It takes
I a newer, fi;esher, highly-creative
% look at life on campus. It offers
I new perspectives . . . new visj ions . . . new thoughts about Car{ negie.
K_ We are a unique school; next 
i ^years Thistle mirrors that unique^ ness with style and originality, 
j So that you will be sure of havf ing the chance to buy the' 1964
{ Thistle, the yearbooks sales cami paign begins next week. Sales 
5 representatives will be knocking 
i on your dormitory doors, talking to
I you in fraternity houses, and sell| ing to commuters in Skibo..
\ The price of the Thistle is sevdollars, but a two-dollar mini| mum down payment will enable
3 you to purchase a yearbook now,
I paying the balance next year when
| you pick up your 1964 Thistle.
3 For those of you who have
| never bought a Thistle, now is-the
I time to learn what a cherished
j possession a yearbook can become;
\ to those of you who h<*ve already
\ purchased the Tech annual in pre->
i vious years  this issue is the
5 Jfmest you have yet seen.
i Dont miss out. When a Thistle
j sales representative approaches
] you next week, take advantage of
j the opportunity 2nd buy the 1964
\ Thistle.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
21-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
According to Dr. Warner, the 
increase was announced at this 
early date to allow present and 
prospective students and their pa
rents to make the necessary finan
cial adjustments for the fall of 
1965. He also explained that the 
board of trustees, in approving 
the action, stressed the fact that 
tuition will remain at that level at 
least until September, 1967.
Carnegie Tech's present tuition 
is $1450 and includes all fees. This 
will remain the same in the 1964- 
65 academic year.
Brass Choir To 
Give Concert
Carnegie Techs Brass Choir 
will present Music for Brass" 
on Tuesday, April 21, at 8 p.m. in 
the Gateway Senior High School 
Auditorium. Moss Side Boulevard, 
Monroeville, Pa. The Carnegie 
Tech Alumni Federation is spon
soring the concert.
The brass choir, directed by 
Phillip Catelinet, assistant pro
fessor . of music, will. present a 
musical program to suit all tastes. 
Classical, romantic, and martial 
music; music from the films and 
the shows; and music for the so
loist and the small ensemble as 
well as for the full brass choir 
will be represented in the eve
nings performance, 
Monroeville area . residents, 
alumni, and friends are invited 
to attend. Tickets are limited and 
can be obtained by calling 621- 
2600, ext. 261, or by writing to 
the Alumni Office of Carnegie 
Tech before April 17.
Seven Candidates Will Compete 
In Lively Great Shakes9 Skits
One week from this coming Friday, on April 24, at 4:30 
p.m. in the Carnegie Tech gym, the sororities will present 
their candidates for the 1964 Spring Carnival Queen. The 
skits, the traditional means of presentation, will all fit in 
with the theme of Carnival, Great Shakes, since the skits 
are based upon seven of Shake-1 
speares plays.
On the afternoon of May 24,
Chi Omega will present Elizabeth 
Kim. The Shakespearean play 
which they have chosen as the 
basis for their skit is The Temp
est. Liz is a senior from Hillside,
Maryland, majoring in Graphic 
Design. This year she served as 
president of Mortar Board and as 
chairman of the Fall Festival 
Dance. In the past years she has been a member of Cwens, Phi 
Tau Gamma, and Scotch n Soda 
Exec Board, and has served on 
Womens Dorm Council, and as 
a Freshman Gamp Counselor. Her 
plans upon graduating are to 
work in the advertising business 
in New York City,
Sandy Byrne is the candidate 
from Delta Delta Delta. She is a 
senior, majoring in English, from 
East Williston, long. Island. Romeo 
and Juliet is the play to be in
corporated by her skit. She has 
served as her sororitys social 
chairman, and as a Student Court 
Justice. Next year she plans to 
begin work toward her M.A. at 
the University of Pittsburgh,
Sigma Kappa is offering Bonnie 
Austin as their candidate for 
Queen. A senior, whose home is 
Lima, Ohio, she is majoring in 
Costume Design in the Depart
ment Drama. Comedy of Errors is 
the theme of their skit. Upon 
graduation, Bonnie will work in 
summer stock, and then open a 
dress shop of her own.
Kappa Alpha Thetas candidate 
is Sue Broadhead^ a senior from 
Jamestown, New York,' majoring
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
 MUSTARD
 RELISH  ONION PICKLE
 MAYONNAISE 
o SAUERKRAUT  CHILE  KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM OSDER  SI.SO)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM OBDEE 7- $1.50)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 21-7388  682-8466
in English. Presently, she is a 
member of Mortar Board and Phi 
Kappa Phi. They will use A Win
ter's Tale as their skit theme. In 
the past years Sue was a Fresh
man Camp Counselor and a mem
ber of Cwens, Phi Tau Gamma, 
and Cameron Choir. Next year 
she will attend graduate school at 
Hunter College in New York City.
Ollie Donaldson is the Delta 
Gamma candidate. Macbeth is the 
theme of their skit. A commuter 
from Glenshaw, Pennsylvania, she 
is a senior, majoring in languages. 
Ollie is presently a member of 
Phi Kappa Phi.
Kappa Kappa Gamma is pre
senting Sandy Fogelsanger with 
Taming of the Shrew as their skit 
theme. Sandy is a senior voice 
major from Shippensburg, Penn
sylvania. She hias a lead role in the Music Departments forth
coming production of The Merry
Wives of Windsor. In the Miss 
Pennsylvania beauty contest she was a runner-up. Next year she 
will work toward her masters de
gree at Carnegie Tech.
Ellen Schlesinger, Alpha Epsi
lon Phis candidate, is a senior 
Psychology major from Great 
Neck, New York. She will be pre
sented in a skit based oh Antony and Cleopatra, Ellen is a 
semi-finalist in Glamour Maga
zine's Best Dressed Girl Contest, and is a member of the Psychol
ogy Club. She plans to attend 
graduate school in social work 
next year.
Voting for these candidates will 
be at various places around the 
campus on Monday, April 27.
The candidates will be visiting 
various places around the campus 
before the skits are presented. 
They will have dinner at Phi 
Kappa Theta tonight, at Delta 
Upsilon tomorrow, Sigma Nu next 
Monday, and Delta Tau Delta 
next Tuesday. Last night they had 
dinner at Beta Theta Pi. On 
Thursday night, April 23, they 
will visit Donner Hall and Hamerschlag Hall from 7:00 to 8:00.
Pittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
lxciwive at l^olert
18KT. White Gold Solitaire setting high and pretty 
giving maximum brilliance and security. $245 F.T.I, 
Enlarged for detail..
REGISTERED JEWELER '
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN
East Hills Shopping Center  731 Washington Itti., Mt. Lebanon

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 15, 1964
Congress Platforms Presented
Porter Emphasizes 
Strong Leadership
Today Student Government, and especial
ly Student Congress, is fighting to get more 
rights for the students and to'maintain what 
rights we now have. But how is it doing this? 
Every time that something has happened 
(e.g., a decree from the Administration, or 
other types of infringements upon stdent 
| rights) the Congress and the 
r~i? Government have reacted 
;V; with letters which stated our 
y* position. With these letters 
we expect to get action; ac1 tion in our favor. But how 
j can we expect this action 
when within our own struc
ture we are failing? There 
I are more student organiza' tions in debt now than ever 
before. And their combined and singular 
debts are also larger than ever before. But 
th poor finances are only' a symptom of 
poor organization within these groups. Not 
only this, but our own committees are doing 
their jobs very inefficiently. They are not 
doing their jobs in full, but only that which 
is absolutely necessary.
What cn Congress do? Before we can 
effectively fight to get more rights for the 
students, we have to be able to show that 
we can handle our own problems. For who 
would respect the requests of an organiza
tion which could not meet its own prob
lems? We must repair our own structure 
before we can expect to be listened to! If 
we can develop an internally strong gov
ernment, it will, by natural course of action, 
also become strong externally.
The strength of Congress can be improv
ed, only with the cooperation of the chair
man and the student body. I plan to provide 
initiative for the other leaders in order to 
spark them into action to improve Congress 
along the following lines:
1. Through the use of Committees.
Now there are only few committees
which are fulfilling more than just the bare 
minimum of leadership in their respective 
areas. By proper choice of these committee 
heads and by sparking them into action, we 
would be able to give more help to organi
zations who are having administrative and 
financial problems. This could be largely ac
complished through the Activities Commit
tee and the Finance Committee, which up to 
the present have provided no leadership in 
these areas. Other Committees are supposed 
to gather information and present it to Con
gress, rather than have the main body sweat 
through this task during its meetings.
2. Through the use of the Assistant
Chairman
The Assistant Chairman of Congress, 
has, in the past, been nothing more than 
chairman of the Rules Committee; nothing 
more than a records keeper. There is great 
potential in this office to take charge of 
various areas of Congress more effectively. 
He should be able to help coordinate and act 
as liaison between Student Congress and 
the Activities and the student body.
3. Through Better Use of Congress Time
A Congress meeting should not be a
place for bringing up new ideas without their 
review by committee, nor should it be a 
Committee of the Whole every meeting. 
There is a suitable mechanism for bringing 
new business to the floor, provided through 
Departmental representatives and Congress 
Committees. Congress is not meant to be the 
Campus Bulletin Board, as it has been treated 
many times. By improving the efficiency of 
these meetings, we could not only accom
plish more, but also improve our prestige on 
the campus.
4. Coordination with Honoraries
By coordinating this improvement of 
Student Activities with the Campus Activi
ties Honoraries, we could bring highly com
petent- individuals into contact with these 
"ailing groups to help them to get back onto 
their feet.
This is not going to be an easy task; to 
improve Student Congress internally. But I 
hope to enthuse others with a new spark to 
attempt new'ideas and to enter new areas, 
to help all of' the-Campus Activities and 
surely the student body.
All of this internal strengthening will reH
Sandulli Stresses 
Good Communications
Congress has finally reached a state of 
technical efficiency with more business
conducted in less time by referring motions
to committees for thorough preparation. 
With the actual operation of Congress on a 
firm basis the Chairman can develop a Con
gress more aware of the campus and a camp
us more aware of Congress. ^
We must encourage V 
communications system wilh 
information exchange in b jth 
directions. We must be able * -  -
to explain' our stand to pi  
pie, as well as be conscious .* i. 
of their feelings toward us 
The Congress Chairman;, 
efforts should be applied to 
maintaining and developing 
two avenues of information exchange,, be
tween Congress and the administration. The 
importance of communication is most acute
ly evident when it fails and we find our
selves bestowed with things we really dont 
need, like parking meters and an extra class 
day at Thanksgiving.
Congress and Students
Congress is responsible for sensing the 
needs of the campus and its organizations in 
time to satisfy them. Once the needs are 
recognized, Congress can easily be adapted 
to them; as it was in the creation of Tech 
Committee to lead school spirit (a need Tech 
has had since its last game with Notre 
Dame). The campus must be made aware 
of what Congress is doing and be brought 
closer to Congress, by our establishing a 
diligent publicity campaign, and by our 
telling people what we are going to do 
ahead of time, so that interested non-mem
bers can make a point of attending meet
ings. People also should be informed of 
what opportunities are available through 
Congress like financial aid, publicity, and' 
pressure for their cause in the effective 
places. Organizations in close contact can 
maintain a united front in expressing stu
dent feeling.
Congress and Administration
Here the Chairman himself is primarily 
involved. Even though meetings between 
Congress Chairman and the administration 
are easily arranged, a constant effort must 
be exerted to acquaint the administrators 
with our feelings and to encourage them to 
share their feelings with us. Neither of us 
should be taken by surprise by a seemingly 
snap judgment on the part of the other. A 
tangible effort we can realize in this direc
tion is the placement of a representative of 
Congress on the schools Calendar Commit
tee. By visiting the administrators regularly 
and by sending delegates of Congress to 
keep in touch with members of the Execu
tive Board we can maintain a student lob
by of the schools policy-making body.
I believe that this good communica
tions policy will enrich the Congress meet
ings by drawing more student interest and 
will enable us to keep up a more constant 
pressure on the administration for the ac
complishment of our goals. As Congress 
Chairman I will consider it my responsi
bility to maintain a more understanding 
Congress and a more understood one.
Joe Sandulli
Joe Sandulli is the Congress Representa
tive from the Chemical Engineering De
partment. He has served as Chairman of 
Leadership Committee and Chairman of 
Freshman Orientation Week Committee, 
and as a member of Campus Chest and 
and Union Committees. In his fraternity, Pi 
Kappa Alpha, he has been Rush Chairman, 
Secretary, Pledgemaster, and Publicity 
Chairman; and has also served as a CFP 
Court Justice. He is a member of Delta 
Skull, AICHE, Varsity Track Team, and of 
Freshman Camp Staff.
fleet on our opinion in the eyes of the Ad
ministration and will bring us to a position 
of higher respect from which we will be 
able to obtain more for the student body in 
the end.
Ben Porter
Candle in the Darkne
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Rights
Often this column contains phrases similar to A m 
has a right ... or Government has no right . . .  Is i 
born with inalienable rights, are they, acquired, or wh 
This article will try to clear up the confusion about the usa 
of the word in this space.
If a man is born with rights, it really does not chan 
the situation as it is now; how is everyone to agree on t 
rights to which anyone is entitled? Some decision rule m 
be formulated; but the correct choice will be a- matter 
opinion.
Perhaps rights are what the legally constituted go 
ernment of an area says are rights. But governments ha 
been known to disagree. If rights are acquired by an indiv 
dual as a grant from society, then, since not all societies ha 
the same value, some men have more rights and (differe 
ones) than others. If some men have more rights than othe 
then, in fact, all men are not equal. (This does not exclu 
granting privileges based on education, etc.) Such ideas 
not have a biological basis. This concept would have to e 
plain the paradox of an individual gaining or losing righ 
when he changes his residence.
If the above is true, then society must be all powerfu 
man does not have any rights except as a member of t' 
whole. But does not man constitute society? Why does socie 
exist? To aid men achieve their goals? Or does man exi 
to help society achieve its goals? The first answer is th 
more logical (even if they majority accepts the other).
But even if it were not, another question should still 
asked: What ought to be? The word rights in this colum 
means those actions which man ought to be able to take (o 
refrain from taking) without interference from governmen' 
or other men, as the ease may be. But what "ought to be? 
This is where the other articles in this space are useful; the 
explain why certain of the writers values ought to be righ 
of all men. Of course, not everyone is going to agree wi 
the "rights any one person postulates. But this does no 
make the rights any less correct to a person who has bee 
persuaded' to accept them. What the above definition o 
rights does mean is that the mere assertion of a right i 
not enough to etsablish it; the reason why it ought to be 
must be presented and defended.
Such a way of seeking truth is not the most satisfying 
Man can never know, beyond doubt, what is a true righ 
He must continue to question. But this does not mean tha 
those values which seem most correct, persuasive, and ap 
propriate can not be called rights tentatively. This is wha 
has been done in this column.
* CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CAftNCeiE INSTITUTE OP TCCHNOIOOV
Editor in-Chief .............................................Miron siraf
Executive Editor .........1......... . Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ...........................................Al Pollock
Business Manager...............................Michael McCoy
' News Editor........................................ Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ................................Alma Rock
Features Editor.............'......................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ...................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor ..........................................Drew Lippay
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager .........................Eric FeldmannSecretary Editor  ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ....................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2..10 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pn.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, In.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, korbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MO. .2-4557; Editcr-in-Chief, MU. 2-D580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-S07S. Managing Editor, Mu. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
i<ory Board: John Blue, Frank Brady, Charles Ho Fook, Annie Moser. Margie Park, Peggy Riva, Martha Siegel.
s Staff: Bob Fritz. Bob Criscom. Eli Parker, Grelchen Smith.Re-Wnle Staff: Mark Fcrdman. Callic Gillcland, Morris Goldstein.
Features Staff: Susan Altlnson, Leslie Buchman, Becky Emerson, Miriam Gillespy Jane KecJer, Sharon Shuttleworth, Nancy Cameron.
Sports Stall: Jay Arnold, Ron Biduia, Dick Elder. Al Green. Bill Hartlep. Chris Macosker.
Business Staff; Eric Feldman. George Meniman, Dick Moore.Layout Maff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder. Drew Lippay. Beverely Phllo/sky. Ted 
Pierce, Barbara Thornton, Marylu Recco, Sharon Shuttleworth, Dave Klein. 
Cory Staff: Helen Beatty, Linda Booth, Barbara Brown. Mike Grcennwalt. Verr.n Ream, Ginny Salko, Ginny UlisS, Lorraine Vlnograd, Rick Shrincr, Ed Chcel.v. 
Secretarial staff: Hazel Bakarlan, Both Cenen. Oanls Cummings, Pat Hnrtmao. Carol Kamel), Karen KuLner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stol), Lorraine Vino- grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Slid: Georse Kail, J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin,

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 15, 1984  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Faffe S
Renders Write
Respect and Facts Often Not Seen
m
Maggie Murph 
Demands Respect
Editor, The Tartan:
I have a bone to pick (if youll' 
forgive the expression) with the 
author of the article Expression 
Engineers which was printed in 
last week's Tartan. We poor 
Maggie Murphs are impressed 
by the accomplishments of the 
Dramats, but we are not so 
dumbfoundef as this author likes 
to think. If he had ever peeked 
into a rehearsal of Dance Work
shop, Scotch *n Soda, or even of 
a sorority Spring Carnival skit, 
I think he and perhaps even a 
few Dramats would be dumb
founded at what we staid Mag
gie Murphs can do when we put 
our minds to it. It takes just
as much self-analysis to get be
yond ones own background and 
prejudices and. a good Psychol
ogy or English paper-as it does 
to get into a character in a play.
-  Sometimes between the tal
ented Fine Arts students and the 
mathematically - oriented engi
neers I think, poor Maggie 
Murphs begins to get an in
feriority complex. There are 
many Maggie Murphs, however, 
who have quite a bit of talent 
or mathematical ability, but 
just prefer Liberal Arts! (Yes, 
there are such creatures.) There 
are some of us who believe that 
the purpose of education is to 
develop ones mind, one's ability 
to communicate and understand; 
that the final end of education 
is to make one into a more ma
ture, more capable individual 
and whether or not one has a
Your 
In
Man
ress
by Martha Hodgson
The first order of business was committee heads re
ports. Leadership chairman joe Sandulli reported that Ad
miral Hymen Rickover has been contacted as the keyspeaker for the proposed Leadership Conference in No
vember. The Homecoming Committee will meet next 
week; interested students should contact Keith Pierce. (It 
is not necessary to be a member of Congress to be on the 
committee). The Union Committee Chairman, Tom Doug
las, announced that locks in Skibo will not be changed 
until this summer. Dick Elder, General Campus Commit
tee Chairman, will consider improvements in the new 1966- 
1967 calendars.
A motion revising the representative structure of the 
Congress elections was passed, and a motion requiring that 
the election be held by the end of April. The budget for 
Scotch and Soda was approved, after a brief discussion item
izing some questionable entries. All were satisfactorily ex
plained to the Congress.
Three amendments to the constitution, with regard to 
structure, were discussed; they will be voted upon at the 
next meeting.From the floor came a suggestion that the Congress 
reopen consideration of the parking,, meters in Skibo lot. 
It was referred to the General Campus Committee.
. The nominees for Congress Chairman were presented. 
They were: Joe Sandulli and Ben Porter, Vice Chairman" 
Dick Elder. The meeting was adjourned.
Heading home for the holidays?
Phone first to let the folks know your plans. It 
costs so littlemeans a lot.
money-making skill is second ary.
We highly respect the analyti
cal minds in E & S and the 
artistic ialenl in Finie Arts, but 
we demand the same respect in 
return for our field of Liberal 
Arts and for Margaret Morrison 
which people like the author of 
this article Expression Engi
neers" seem to slight.
Sincerely yours, 
Christine' L. Wick 
Humanities MMCC, 67
Substantiate Factsi 
Before Criticizing
Editor, the Tartan:
This is an answer to Paul 
Carlson, Jay Smith, and all those 
other avid fans of the anti-renta cop clan. Specifically, I am 
writing *n response . to a letter that appeared in the TARTAN on 
Mar. 18. (.Security Accused of 
Towing Cars.)
In that letter, Smith and Carl
son declare Chief Young to . be 
the lack-lusler leader of the 
Carnegie Tech Gestapo. It is 
fascinating to note that these 
critics, who accuse Mr. Young of calling the police v and initiating 
the reign of car towing terror, 
also decide to cast their reflec
tions (behind cover of the print
ed page of course) on Mr. 
Youngs personality. I am sure 
neither o the gentlemen ever met 
Chief Young. Their eloquent and 
gusty adjectives are riot back
ed up; they only border on the 
superb alliteration.
Their criticism is, at best, cri
tical with nothing constructive 
added. More appropriately, its a 
lot of bad talk without anything 
behind it. Two 'senior electrical 
engineering students are now able 
to cast judgment without know
ing virtually any information. Its amazing how the scientific meth
od has changed since I studied 
Physics.To the individuals who are un
familiar with the head of the 
security force, I wish to relate my single encounter with Mr. Young.
(continued on vaae 6)
This Week In Pittsburgh
EXHIBITS,
Graphic Design, Paul Rand, Porter Garnett Graphic 
Arts Gallery, A.H., continuing through April 24.
Chalk. Creations, Spring Art Exhibit, Child Develop
ment Laboratory, MMCC., continuing through April 
30.
Invention and Tradition in Contemporary. Scultpure, 
Circulated by San Francisco Institute, Falk Hall 
Foyer, Continuing through April 20.
Exhibit of student work from the Department of.P.D.
& S., Carnegie Tech, Westmoreland County Museum, 
Greensburg, Pa., continuing through May 3.
One-man Show, Robert Lepper, Professor of P.D. &
' S., Carnegie Tech, continuing through April 22.
Faculty Art, Hewlett Gallery, CFA, Carnegie Tech, 
continuing through April 24.
LECTURES
Design as a Basic Engineering Skill, April 16, 3:45 
p.m., Scaife- Lecture Hall, by Professor Edward V. 
Krick of Lafayette College.
The policy of African Non-Alignment, April 16, 11:30 
a.m., Chapel, His Excellency, Ambassador Alex 
Quaison-Sackey.
Psychoanalysis and Existentialism: The Meeting of 
the Ways, AprillS, 8:15 p.m., YM & WHA, 315 
S. Bellefield Avenue, Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, 
Rabbi.
Home O Sapiens  A House is Not a Home, Nathan S. 
Levenson, Registered Architect, April 20, 8:15 p.m., 
Y.M. and W.H.A., 315 S. Belle Field Avenue.
Through Darkest Psychology With Flag and Broom, 
Dr. Lucy Zabarenko of The University of Pittsburgh, 
April 21, 8:15 p.m., Y.M. and W.H.A., 315 S. Belle 
Field Avenue.
Schools of Psychoanalytic Thought, Dr. Richard L. 
Rubenstein, April 22, 8:15 p.m., Y.M. and W.H.A.,
315 S. Belle Field Avenue.
Paperbacks and Modern Literature II, Dr. Richard L. 
Rubenstein, April 22, 1:30 p.m.,'Irene Kaufmanri 
Center.
King Waltz and the Waltz Kings: Some Musical Love 
Notes to Old Vienna, Barbara Orwid, April 23,
8:15 p.m., Y.M. and W.H.A., 315 S. Belle Field 
Avenue.
DRAMA
Enter Solly Gold, April 15-18, 8:10 p.m., Carnegie 
Theater. CFA.
fS -KB? |
d OJVjjf i

---------------------------------------------------

Pace C  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. A,*fl 15, 1W*
Psychologists 
To Begin Study
Beginning in the summer of 
1964, the Department of Psychol
ogy will conduct an Undergradu
ate Science Education Program, 
under a grant from the National 
Science Foundation. The program 
will recognize exceptional students in Psychology, and provide 
guidance and financial support 
for a research project to be con
ducted by these students.
Two undergraduate students 
will be chosen as National Science 
Foundation Honor Students for 
the summer of 1964 and the aca
demic year 1964-1965. NSF Hon
or Students will develop their 
own research projects in experi
mental psychology under the gui
dance of the project director. They 
will receive a grant-in-aid of 
$200,000, and will work on their 
projects for eight weeks during 
the summer, at a stipend of 
$60.00 per week.
Any undergraduate student is 
eligible for consideration as an NSF Honor Student. Interested 
students are invited to write to 
the project director, outlining 
their qualifications and interests. 
He is Kenneth E. Moyer, Depart
ment of Psychology, Carnegie 
Tech.
Readers Write Continued
Substantiate Facts 
Before Criticizing
(continued Jrom page 5)
A few months ago I was one of 
those students who fell prey to a gym locker thief. Along with 
a wallet, I lost a check-book 
from which some aspiring young 
student forged a check and even 
withdrew more money than was 
in my account.
My beloved bank decided I was 
responsible, as the account had 
not been closed immediately fol
lowing the theft. With a dearth 
of lawyers to turn to, I went to 
the security office and was refer
red to Chief Young. I sought only 
advice concerning the law, lout 
received quite a bit more from 
him.
Our so called lack-luster lead
er not only procured informa
tion as to who accepts the re
sponsibility'for the theft, he later 
proceeded with me to the bank 
and demanded  through right 
of sworn forgery  that I be re
imbursed for all losses. The bank 
officials hesitated at first, but after 
several minutes of magnificent 
oratory, counsel Young won his 
case. He won it for a single stu
dent of Carnegie Tech, but in specific instances as these a man 
establishes his worth and poten
tial. Everytime Chief Young aids 
a student he is performing a ser
vice to the school.
Smith and Carlson, ask, just 
what way does the school benefit 
by the constructive  in this case 
helping students. We need men 
like Chief Young. What we need 
less of is the quick critics.
Peter S. Jacobson
Sopb., Industrial Design
Don 9t Call For a Date9 
Draw For One at SAE
But It Is Easier 
Just To Criticize!
Editor, the Tartan:
Obviously the April 1st edition 
of the Tartan was created to pro
voke laughter, and it did  the 
Editorial was .simply hilarious! 
What sarcasm! What biting wit! 
To suggest that the stuednts con
tribute to the creation of their 
school newspaper is absolutely 
riotous. The Tartan is only their 
school paper. Why ever would 
they want to have a part in writ
ing it? It's too much fun (and 
much easier) to sit back and Cri
ticize it.
Congratulations for writing a 
truly^ funny article. But be .careful 
someone may join the Tartan 
staff just for spite!
Judy Litman
Sopb.. Humanities
MEN! ! How are you fixed for 
dates? Have you found lately that 
good dates are harder to come by 
than good grades? If so, the be
nevolent pledges of SAE have the 
answers to your desires. I said 
answers, because there are nine 
of them. Nine of the best look
ing coolest on campus are yours 
fot dating. Naturally, theres a 
hitch to this seeming windfall. 
These luscious girls have whole 
heartedly devoted themselves to 
the furtherance of the Campus 
Chest. Therefore, they will allow 
themselves to be daite prizes of 
a raffle which is being managedby the jolly SAEs. Each chance 
.on a date with one of these nine
lovelies is two bits (25c) or five 
for a dollar. The grand drawing 
will be April 29, at 7:00 p.m. on 
the SAE patio. The dates will 
take place on the Friday follow
ing Spring Carnival. Included in 
each prize is an invitation to a 
swinging SAE date party. The 
names of your dates are: Betty 
Bealke, Holly Brown, Elizabeth 
Kim, Bonnie Moyer, Elissa Ann Parker, Sandy Schusda, Jane 
Skeehan. Aso, Sherry Rossman, 
who is not pictured 
After reading this tremendous 
list of date material, NEED WE 
SAY MORE ! ! s !! So come one 
and all and help support a good 
cause, and take a chance on a 
dream date.
I Think...
by Richard C. Anderson
An American man is dead. Amen. He threw himself 
behind a bulldozer which, I believe, he didnt think was 
going to back up. It did ... in order to avoid other folk 
throwing themselves in front. This man was a minister of 
God. A teacher, and a Negro movement leader. I suppose 
you could call him a martyr, but^
do accidents cause martyrs? I do 
not think so. The motto of the 
Negro movement seems to be we 
shall overcome. I think it would 
be wise for us to first examine 
ourselves and to understand our
selves before we try to change 
other people. In order to explain 
this statement, I classify us as 
the Negro. Change as the Civil 
Rights Bill, and Other people 
as everyone living under the 
status quo. In other words, I 
think it would be wise for the 
Negro to understand himself be
fore having the Civil Rights Law 
imposed on the American citizen. 
In fact, it would also be wise for 
everyone to read and understand 
the Civil Rights Bill before the 
Senate and the House have a 
chance to bring action on it. If 
we do not make a concerted effort 
to look before we leap, we might 
as well rephrase the motto as: 
We shall overdo it!
If we are to take our place in 
society as conscientious objectors 
to anything, we must first reason 
and analyze, then plan and exe
cute.
But to get back to the accident:
the school whose bulldozer this 
man was trying to stop for reasoning designated as Intgra 
tion was a supposedly segregated 
Negro school. I would like some 
comment as to . how stopping the 
building of a Negro school would 
further the cause for educating 
the Negro.
I am one-hundred per cent for 
integration, but anything of this 
fragile and gigantic nature should 
be handled with extreme care and 
thought. Let us all pray for a so
lution.
Join The Nyet 
Dong
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos  in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
&NHVaL
A9x12$5 of t9o4  byK1
SONCJ5 JUICCEST ON VARIOUS SVB]<zCZTS
jea-gy upsmussen 
/ Siislce Faust 
with Myra timers and Carta Glasser and Dwayne Thorpe
oylpriliftih ty&b Jkibo, 8:30 pm
Tickets *1* at C.I.T. Bookstore or at ceilidh, Friday tvenms in skib
<ARIM5r|-CUC* Or WCHNOIOC,Y

---------------------------------------------------

Wdn*Jaj,ApriI 15, 1M<  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fate T
Dr. Samuel Shapiro Speaks On 
Four Portraits of Castro
Dr. Samuel Shapiro, Professor of History at Notre Dame, 
and frequent visitor to Cuba and Latin America, will speak 
this Friday evening and Saturday to two student and faculty 
audiences. Friday evening, at 8:00 p.m. in the GSIA Audi
torium, Dr. Shapiro will speak on Four Portraits of Castro, 
paling with the lives of four*
Cuban friends, one a lieutenant 
in the Cuban Rebel army under 
Castro, another an engineer in 
charge of basic industries under 
Guevara, one a refugee living in 
Miami whose husband took part 
in the ill-fated invasion of the 
Bay of Pigs. This address 
ing sponsored by the Carnegie 
Tech YMCA-YWCA and th<
American Friends Service Com 
mi t tee, with the University of 
Pittsburgh Graduate School of 
public and International Affairs, 
the United Nations Association,
SANE Nuclear Policy, and the 
YWCA Public Affairs Commit
tee as cooperating agencies.
All Tech students are encour
aged to participate Saturday 
morning and afternoon from 
10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. in a sem-jnar with Dr. Shapiro entitled 
1 Cuba 1964: Where Do We Go 
From Here? The seminar will 
open with Dr. Shariro presenting 
a picture of Cuba: 1964. This will 
lie followed by an analysis of 
U.S. policy towards Cuba from 
the point of view of both the 
U.S. and Latin America by Dr.
Roy Curry of Tech and Dr. Gay
lord Obern of the University of 
Pittsburgh. In the afternoon, be
ginning at 12:30 a panel of stu^KL*nts will take over with ques
tions to Dr. Shapiro, Dr. Curry, 
and Dr. Obern. Discussion groups 
and a final session with reports 
from the discussion groups will 
end the conference at 4:00. There 
is no charge for the conference, 
and students may participate in 
cither part or all of the sessions.
Dr. Shapiro is known nation wide 
as an often controversial comjg.entor on Latin American af
fairs and particularly on Cuban 
affairs. He appears .regularly in 
the London Economist, "The 
Nation, The New Republic, and 
^Commentary. He taught as a 
Fuilbright Professor in Argentina 
in 1959, has taught at Brandeis,
Oberlin, Michigan State, and 
Notre Dame. He has visited Cuba 
three, times, and has worked close
ly with the training of Peace 
jCftyps workers going to. Peru and 
^Hiile. He is highly critical of the 
historical role of U.S. diplomacy 
in relation to Latin America,
Students and faculty seeking 
snore information on either of the 
two programs, should contact the 
Y office, 57 Skibo.
Tech Receives 
Four Grants
Carnegie Tech has received four 
grants totaling over $110,000 for 
projects in th College of En
gineering and Science and the 
Division of Humanities and So
cial Sciences.
Three of the grants are from 
the National Science Foundation 
and the other from the MartinMarietta Corporation.
Dr. John A. Ryne, associate 
professor of physics, will direct 
research as a result of a $85,100 
grant from NSF. The other two 
NSF grants support undergrad
uate science education programs 
in the departments of psychology 
and metallurgical engineering. 
Kenneth E. Moyer, professor of 
psychology, will direct the pro
gram in that department, and 
Richard H. Lambert, associate 
professor and assistant head, in 
metallurgical engineering.
The Martin-Marietta project for 
the department of electrical en
gineering is supported by a $14,- 
508 grant and is under the di
rection of James M. Feldman, as
sistant professor of electrical en
gineering.
AID Receives 
Aid From Tech
Carnegie Tech has contributed 
over $700,0.00 in support of the 
United States foreign assistance 
effort. ,
Five other Pennsylvania uni
versities have signed nine con
tracts with the Agency for International Development (AID) 
for a total dpnation of $5,951,214.
The $726,731 contributed by 
Carnegie Tech is specified for use 
in India for Industrial training. 
The other five Pennsylvania 
schools in this program are Bucknell University, University of 
Pittsburgh, University of Penn
sylvania, Philadelphia College of 
Physicians, and the Spring Gar
den Institute.AID reported that at the end 
of 1963, 72 universities held 129 
contracts for overseas technical 
co-operation efforts in 40 coun
tries.
Graphic Arts 
Holds Seminar 
April 16-18
Alumni and leaders in the 
graphic arts field will return to 
Carnegie Tech for the annual 
Spring Printing Management Sem
inar on April 16 through 18.
Tech alumni from New York, 
Chicago, Washington, and Boston 
will be present: Reports to Print
ing Management on the latest 
developments in the use of color, 
plant management, computers, de
sign and sales.
Dr. J. C. Warner, president of 
Carnegie Tech, will be the ban
quet speaker on Friday, April 17, 
at Webster Hall.
On Thursday, AjJril 16, Leo 
Napotnik, president of th Car
negie Printers Alumni, will wel
come visitors to the seminar. Re
ports given that evening will deal 
with the building of a new print
ing plant, handling. a merger and 
quality control. Other speakers 
will discuss plant expectations, 
graphic design, color and com
puter typesetting.
The seminar will end Saturday 
morning with a session on the 
future of a typical printing firm 
and an alumni business session.
Dr. Young 
Receives Honor
Dr. Frederick J. Young, asso
ciate professer of electrical en
gineering at Carnegie Tech and 
co-ordinator of the applied sci
ence program, has received an 
honorable mention award as the 
outstanding young electrical en
gineer of. 1963. He received the 
recognition from Eta Kappa Nu, 
an electrical engineering association.
Dr. Young also serves as con
sultant to. the North American 
Aviation Company and the Westinghouse Research Laboratories 
and has invented several electro
magnetic devices for the latter.
As author or co-author, Dr. 
Young has published over 30 sci
entific papers and a book. He and 
Dr. E. M. Williams, head of the 
electrical engineering department 
at Carnegie Tech, have written a 
text book used by college soph
omores both here and overseas. 
It is entitled: Electrical Engineer
ing Problems (McGraw Hill), and offers a new approach to 
solving engineering problems in 
the laboratory.
Reporter Explains His 
Style To Write News
The primary purpose of the newspaper is to give news 
to the public. If that news is false or inaccurate, there can 
be no point in printing it, for the paper would soon lose the 
confidence of the people.
A reporter must, therefore, honestly strive to see all 
sides of a question without preCAR Oxford 
education...
by -ARROWFor graduates or undergrads who 
prefer button-downs, here is the 
newest ARROW easy-care contribu
tion to your wardrobe... luxury 
Decton oxford with true University 
Fashion button-down collar. 
The classic button-down with a 
studied nonchalance of good taste 
that puts it in a class by itself. This 
educated oxford is practical, too 
... boasting longer wear in a 
blend of 65% Dacron* polyester 
and 35% cotton and winning all 
honors in the field of 
wash-and-wear. 
In long sleeves 
$6.95
CARNEGI STUO FEH LIY 9x12$HIIH FL5$H
-ARROW*
Plea Made For 
Civil Rights
A crash program is being or
ganized to save the-Civil'Rights 
Bill. The letters to Pennsylvania 
Senators Clark and Scott are -run
ning 4 to 1 against the bill. This 
means that those in favor of it 
have apparently stopped writing.
A Paul Revere Freedom Truck 
will come through neighborhoods 
throughout the city between 
April 13 and April 18 to col
lect letters people are urged 
to write, to urge that the two 
Senators make sure the bill pass
es as soon as possible' without 
weakening amendments, and that 
they vote for cloture, or limita
tion of debate, if necessary. There 
will be boxes in strategic spots 
on the campus before April 17, 
when the truck will come through 
this area, into which students 
and faculty may put their let
ters.
Do so whether or not you are 
a registered voter in Pennsyl
vania. If you are registered in an
other state or live in another 
state,- write your own two Sen
ators as well. This Paul Revere 
Freedom Truck is being spon
sored by the Western Pennsyl
vania March on Washington Follow-Up Committee. If yciu do 
hot find a box, bring your letter 
to the Y Office, 57 Skibo by April 
17.
Chicago To Be 
Scene Of West 
Penn Meeting
Roger A. Powell and George 
W. Crawford, Jr., junior engi
neering students, and Dr. Kurt 
Fehrie, assistant professor in the 
Electrical Engineering De
partment, will be guests of West 
Penn Power Company at the 27th 
Annual American Power Confer
ence in Chicago, April 14-16.
The conference is sponsored by 
the Illionis Institute of Technol
ogy with the cooperation of var
ious universities and technical 
societies. Its purpose is to provide 
a national forum for the discus
sion of problems and the exchange 
of information concerning mat
ters of interest to the power in
dustry and associated groups. Pa
pers presented at the conference 
will be in the areas of generation, 
transmission, distribution, and 
utilization of electric power.
Two students and one profes
sor fi'orri Gannon College, Penn 
State, and Pitt will be guests at 
the conference of West Penn 
Power Companly.
judice; then without personal bias 
he must earnestly desire to report 
the truth.
The more fully informed a re 
porter is, the greater his oppor
tunities. Increasing information 
comes only to the person of re
ceptive mind and broad interacts. 
In journalism, as in most activi
ties, the personality of the indivi
dual either helps or hinders his 
achievement.
The reporter is the eyes and the 
mouthpiece of the world for which 
he writes. He cannot afford to be 
indifferent or blind to any element 
in it.
What is the test of his accom
plishments?
First and very important, the 
journalists writing must be clear. 
The primary function of the 
newspaper is to give information 
and give it rapidly, impossible to 
do in vague, indefinite, ambiguous 
language.
His writing is simple and plain 
because his readers include all 
people who read his language:. It 
is terse and direct because he has 
no space to waste, and his read
ers no time to waste on unneces
sary words.
It is picturesque, vivid, realistic, 
so that it may be as near to real 
experience for the reader as 
words can create.
It is easy and fluent, in order 
to offer no reading obstacle.
It is forceful and vigorous in 
order to make its point upon the 
first reading.
It is impersonal. The writer 
tries not to get between the read
er and the story.
Last 'and most important, the 
journalists writing must be in
teresting.
These journalistic standards ap
ply all the way from the cub reporter to the newspaper colum
nist, and no part of a newspaper 
requires more skill than the writ
ing of a column.
The newspaper columnist has 
aptly been called the court jester 
of the world. Usually he is a man 
or woman of long newspaper 
training who has shown excep
tional ability in feature writing 
and has developed a style of his own.
Under an attractive heading he 
contributes to his column a series 
of observations that are an original 
blend of news, philosophy, and 
humor. His purpose is also to 
avoid sensational and exaggerated 
statements.
Such writing is usually done in 
a light, personal-essay style that 
is intimate, alluring, and easy to read.
Keep in mind, that a columnist 
doesnt buy space so that he may 
have equal opportunity to voice an 
opinion as the editor of a news
paper. He earns space through 
years of newspaper experience, 
and through his column he ad
vances a philosophy which he has 
developed over the years and to 
which people learn to identify.
(The above article was based on 
writing in "Journalism for High 
Schools by Otto and Mayre, 
1934.)
= This wonderful coupon entitles =
ly^Yor |
to one "Evnod ticket for only $1.75. =5
Monday or Tuesday, April 27, 28 =a
482348235848484858235858000048482348482358485858585823232348

---------------------------------------------------

Today
Womens Dorm Council Elated 
By Supporting Philippine Child
by Miriam Gillespie
I extends my warmest regards 
to you all my Foster Parents. I 
hope of some services to you some 
days to come/ So writes thirteenyear-old Gloria Emma S. Villar of 
the Philippines to her Foster Pa
rents, Womens Dormitory Coun
cil. Dorm Council has been spon
soring Gloria since September,
1962.
Gloria is how a sixth grade stu
dent, and, according to the; pro
gress report just received from the 
social worker, she is a very con
scientious student who excels in 
Social Studies. Gloria likes school 
and hopes to be a teacher some 
day. _
Gloria and her younger sister 
live with their grand-aunt and 
uncle. The whereabouts of. their 
parents are unknown. Her grandaunt is the main support of the 
family. She works as a laundress 
and earns about 50 cents a day, 
but she can only work two to three 
tiems a week because of a cardiac 
ailment. Glorias grand-uncle suf
fers from tuberculosis and cannot 
work. Without aid, Mrs. Tangaien,
Glorias grand-aunt, would not 
know where to get support for the 
family.
Dorm Council's sponsorship has 
made it possible.for Gloria to con
tinue her studies and to meet her 
personal needs better. The sup
port has also benefited her sister 
and has made it easier for her 
grand-aunt to meet their daily 
needs.
Take 
GSIA Course
Industrial executives are presently attending an executive 
development course directed by 
the Graduate School of Indus
trial Administration at Carnegie 
Tech. '
They are: Serge Greenefege, of 
Copperweld Steel International,
Lee McDonals; of the Goodyear 
Tire and Rubber Company, John 
Westbrook, of the Newport News 
Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Com
pany, Ronald Emerine of the 
Mountain States Telephone and 
Telegraph Company, Louis Favret, of the Babcock and Wilcox 
Boiler Company, Warren Davis, 
of the Bankers Trust Company, 
and Dr. Lawrence Friedman of 
the M&M Candy Company.
The program for Executives, 
which began on March 8 and is 
continuing through May 8, is de
signed to broaden and deepen the 
knowledge of the participants and 
their capacity for dealing with 
company-wide, top - management 
problems.
Pse:8 CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 15, 1964 _________________
Sigma Xi Calls 
New Members
Thirteen seniors in the College 
of Engineering and Science, Car
negie Institute of Technology, 
have been elected to associate 
membership in the Society of 
Sigma Xi, national science organ
ization.
The new members are: Robert 
Balzer, Ray Baughman, Allan 
Bishop, Charles Guger, Matthew 
Jacobs, Thomas Kenat, Lloyd 
Mays, .Norman McEachron, Ste
phen Nygren, Audrey Owen, Wil
liam , Schlitt, Jan Siren, and. 
George Yanizeski.
Following a brief initiation 
ceremony, the new associate mem
bers will be introduced at a meet
ing of the society on Tuesday, 
April 21, at 4:30 p.m. in Scaife 
Hall Auditorium, on the campus. 
Speaker for the meeting will be 
Dr. Richard L. Longini, professor 
of solid state electronics. He will 
speak on Thin Films of Solids."
The lecture is open to the pub
lic.
Tech Students 
Paddle Canoes
Twenty men and four women 
with twelce canoes, participated 
in the Sixth Annual Canoe Trip 
of the Carnegie Tech Explorers 
Club. This party paddled a total 
of fifty-three miles on. the south 
branch of the Potomac River.
The trip started Friday morn
ing when the party pushed off 
from a campsite above Moorefield, West Virginia. That after
noon the members passed through 
the Trough, a deep, rock-lined 
gorge of about seven miles in 
length. All along the river, im 
pressive formations of rock were 
viewed.Nights were spent in tents at 
campsites found along the .way 
and meals were cooked from 
paokaged supplies. A precooked 
ham was roasted one night over 
an open fire and served with 
green beans, potatoes, and apple
sauce. The camping and cooking 
were made doubly pleasant by 
the fine weather enjoyed through
out the trip.____________
is
Ziegler Edits 
New Casebook
 A casebook edition of Lord of 
the Flies containing the complete 
text'of the novel,, critical essays, 
notes, and bibliography has been 
co-edited by Arthur P. Ziegler, 
Jr., of the Tech. English Depart
ment and James R. Baker of San 
Diego State College, it was pub
lished this week.
The novel, by William G<?lding, 
is the most popular on college 
campuses today. It has just\passed 
its one-and-a-quarter million 
mark in sales.
The casebook edition includes 
Goldings own statements about 
the book, appreciations by E. M. 
Forster and Ian Gregor, critical 
discussions by leading writers in
cluding Frank Kermode, Carl 
Niemeyer, and John Peter, and 
articles discussing the novel from 
psychological, religious, and so
ciological perspectives.
Mr. Ziegler wrote a critical 
foreword for the book and Mr. 
Baker, the introduction.
Y To Show Foreign Film
The Y.M.&W.H.A. Foreign 
Film Society will present The 
Letter That Was Never Sent on 
Sunday evening, May 3, at 8:15, 
at the Morris Kaufmann Me
morial Auditorium at the 
Y.M.&W.H.A., 315 S. Bellefteld 
Avenue, between Fifth and Forbes 
Avenues, in Oakland.
In this film, Mikhail Kalatosov 
and Tatyana Samoilova, the di
rector and star of the classic 
Cranes Are Flying combine to 
present a truly rare movie which 
excels any other Russian film 
drama in many years for sheer 
photographic pull and intensity. 
The power of human drama which 
develops when four young people 
are hurled into a physically and 
emotionally trying situation 
American premiere.
Open to the public.
Alfred Stokes Andrews Noted * 
As Outstanding Citizen And 
Respected Tech Alumnus
A large number of Carnegie Techs alumni have'become 
outstanding citizens and have followed distinguished careers 
in their fields. They live in all parts of the United States and 
in many countries around the world. The following is the 
first of a series of weekly ardes about some of Techs 
exemplary alumni, designed to 
give the students in the various 
curricula an idea of what the fu
ture holds in store for the gradu
ates of Carnegie Tech.
This weeks article is about Al
fred Stokes Andrews, a 1926 grad
uate from. what was then the 
varied, and successful professional 
School of Industries. His long, 
career, his active civic life, and 
his outstanding service to the 
Alumni Federation make him a 
most noteiworthy alumnus of 
Tech.
His professional success is evi
denced by his rapid climb to posi
tions of responsibility in the man
agement field. For the two years 
following his graduation, he was 
Architect Superintendent of 
Walker and Weeks in Cleveland,
Ohio. For the following, six years,
Mr. Andrews was an engineer for 
U. S. Fidelity and Guaranty, also 
of Cleveland. While holding this 
position, he .furthered his education by attending Cleveland. Law 
School from 1933 to 1934. In 1940 
he became president of the Amer
ican Decorating Company, a posi
tion he still holds. During the war 
years, Mr. Andrew served as Gen
eral Manager and Secretary of 
Cleveland Aircraft Products Com
pany. Presently he is president 
of 'Andrews, Bartlett, and Associ
ates, Inc. Complementing his busi
ness activities, Mr. Andrews is 
active in two professional organi
zations, the Cleveland Engineering 
Society, and the American Society 
of Civil Engineers.
UMOG
Is
Imminent
W ALLY'S
Campus-Favored
MENWOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIESHUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSLOAFERSWELLINGTON BOOTSFLATSFLORSHEIMDRESS SHOESu. s.KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
well-known and well-respected citizen of Cleveland, he 
chaired the Lakefront Develop 
ment Committee of the Cleveland 
Chamber of Commerce. He is also 
an active member of the Cleve
land Advertising Club, and the 
Clifton Club, a Cleveland social 
organization.
Both he and his wife, Estelle 
(Music, '26), have  been active 
members of the Cleveland Clan 
(Carnegie Tech Alumni Club) and often use their home for 
holding clan activities.
Andrews served as prsident 
and later as vice-president of the Tech Alumni Federation, and has 
been distinguished as a High
lander (one who contributes $100 
or more to the Alumni Fund) for 
many years. He is also an Alumni 
Trustee of Tech. In 1960 he was 
honored with the Alumni SeiVice 
Award for having demonstrated 
outstanding loyalty to Carnegie 
Tech by his continued support of 
clan, federation, and university activities.
Tech Receives* 
Grant-In-Aid
Carnegie Tech has been select
ed as one of five universities in 
the United States to receive an 
American Society for Testing Ma
terials (ASTM) grant-in-aid for 
the coming academic year, 
grants-in-aid are awarded on a 
competitive basis by ASTM and 
are given each year to promote 
materials science through pure 
or applied research on materials.
The grant was awarded to sup
port a project under the direction 
of Dr. Alvin Weinstein, associate 
professor of mechanical engineer
ing. Dr. Weinsteins research 
volves determining experimen tal
ly the value of Poissons ratio for 
the specific loading and beometry 
encountered in metal strip roll
ing. The $1000 grant-in-aid will 
be used to, provide partial sup
port for a graduate research assistant and to aid in theOLUMEof
experimental equipment.
Dr. Weinstein has been cn^a^c 
in metal roliiing restw^h for sev-c-veral years under grants from ue 
National Science Foundation and 
the Association of Iron and Steel 
Engineers. He is a consultant in 
the field of metal strip rolling 
lor several firms including the 
General Electric Company and the 
Jones and Lauchlin Steel Company.
SUMMER JOBS
for STUDENTS
64- UNB64 directory lists 20,000 summer job 
openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Un
precedented research for students includes exact 
pay rates and job details. Names employers and 
their addresses for hiring in industry, summer 
camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. 
Ilurry!! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satis
faction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Di
rectory P.O. Box 13593  Phoenix, Arizona.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 15. 1961  CARNEGIE TARTAN  l'ge 9
Steve Allen Given Ugly Greeting 
St Techs UMOC Goes Nationwide
2$ Tuesday night, April 7, 
xVMOC escaped his keepers on 
^he Tech campus and made his 
way to the Greater Pittsburgh 
JgPAirport in an attempt to leave 
Pittsburgh and make himself 
Known to the nation as the Ugliest 
on the American College 
^Campus. Not only did the real 
"&UMOC escape, but fourteen others 
*viho felt that they deserved the 
^ distinction broke their bonds and
- followed him. These gallant fif'p-*teen were accompanied by well
over 200 friends and zoo-keepfriers, eager to see that their fak^vorite Ugly Man achieved the 
PC^goal of becoming UMOCIA  
f Ugliest Man on Campus in Amer
ica
^ This was all a part of a pub
licity stunt arranged by KDKAf
and various Tech students to wel
come the arrival of, the wellknown Steve Allen at the Air
port Tom Pyke was approached 
^by KDKA to find something to 
v^plug s part of a welcoming for 
^Mr. Allen. The only logical choice 
Hr^was of course UMOC!
Approximately two hundredf
Tech students and UMOC candi
dates went to the airport in carsmd busses to greet Steve. When 
Steves private plane  came to 
iesi at the ramp it was quickly 
suiiounded by the exuberant Tech 
boat ding party. Tom Pyke (Leslor Gzortch) read Steve a petition 
^j^vppointing him National UMOCIA 
r^Chairman and challenged him to 
iind a uglier UMOC than ours 
mywhere on any other American 
tollcge campus. He was then pre** tented with an Ugly Mug by 
Phi O president, A1 Pollock. Steve
- accepted the honor of being the 
"iii st National Chairman 
* UMOCIA, and within the next 
^ few weeks he should give UMOC
a plug on his national TV show.
 He and his wife .then groped 
through the crowd to their waiting limousine amid cheers and 
t<_lhe skirl of the Kilties pipes.
Navy Officer 
To Serve Here 
^As Consultant
. rv The Navy Department has as
signed a special information of, ficer to college campuses in the 
Pittsburgh area.
This mans duties consist of ex
plaining and clarifying the var
ious Naval Aviation officer pro
grams. He Js also authorized to 
grant transportation and accom, modations to the Naval Aid Sta
tion at Willow Grove, near Phil
ip udclphia, for those who would 
like to look into these programs 
m o r e thoroughly. At Willow 
: Grove, written and physical tests
are given. These tests carry no 
.v obligation, and are simply meant 
to indicate whether further ef/oris would be worthwhile.
:<t The information officer assigned 
lo Carnegie Tech is Gerald Mooney. He can be contacted through 
Dr. Stricks office (Skibo 103), or 
at his home (607 Humphrey Rd., 
Giecnsburg, 837-3356). It is hoped 
x that students will take full ad
vantage of this service in makmg decisions concerning their 
military obligation.

Grad Fee Due
All Bachelor, Master, and Doc
tor Degree candidates are re
minded that a fee of $10.00 per 
degree is charged to each candi
date for graduation. This fee 
must be paid by April 15, 1964. 
Checks should be made payable 
to Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy and, if mailed, sent to the 
Registrars Office. To pay this 
ice in person, candidates should 
first come to the Registrars Of
fice, AH 345, for the necessary 
cards to take to the Cashiers Of
fice.
Save Your Pennies
!*UMOC
Game goes better refreshed.
And Coca-Cola gives you that big, bold taste. 
Always just right, 
never too sweet... refreshes best.
things gObetter,^^WlthCoke
Eotlled under the lulhoril of The Coca-Cola Cmpiny by;Soaker State Coca-Cola DoUlinc Company Pittsburgh, PcDnsy;vD
to the fine and rare book collec
tion. Individual collectors and 
organizations such as the Pitts-, 
burgh Bibliophiles have already 
begun to add their prized vol
umes.
Mr. and Mrs, Hunt Are Named 
To New Whos Who in America
Mr. Hoy A. Hunt, vice chairman of the board of trustees 
of Carnegie Tech, and his late wife, Rachel McMaster Miller 
Hunt, have been cited by Whos Who in America in recogni
tion of their substantial gifts to education in this country.
Mr. Hunt is a director of the Aluminum Company of 
America. The late Mrs. Hunt was* 
a prominent bibliophite and hor
ticulturist. Their combined inter
ests led them to donate $2,800,000 
to Carnegie Tech for the Campus*
Hunt Library.
An additional gift of $175,000 
from the Hunts provided for two 
specially designed rooms in the 
library to house fine and rare boks, of which 1650 were con
tributed from Mrs. Hunts personal collection.
Mrs. Hunts famous collection of 
priceless, rare botanical books 
and prints is housed in the pent
house of the library.
The Whos Who citation points 
out that the history of private 
education is replete with in
stances of gifts by cultural and 
industrial leaders . . . Few man 
and wife teams, however, have 
contributed as much, each in their 
own way.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Hunt had 
hoped that other book collectors 
would follow their lead and add
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk Guiiar
Fred Albitz  Featured at the Casbah 
and many -other Pittsburgh spots ' 
and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood  is giving folic euitar lessons at The Peter Hughes Scnool ol Music. Call:. 731-1844.
ing. On Baum Blvd. near Aiken, walking distance to Tech. Call C61-9911.
. problem. . Call 521-2467 after
FOR. SALE-1959 Plymouth. 4-door, V8 automatic  good condition. MAKE* OFFER. Inquire in room- EH A313 or call 4G2-1028 after 6:00 p.m.^
Man, the stampede's on for
BRASS RIMGER
Go e*o ffo/onet Hda V.ith thp Belt rochet 6// in U tomaoff 3 Wonder World, 
- ut the N Y. World's fair AmphitbMtrvi}
Hop to It. meet the new "Brass Ringer," it really gets around. Its 
clean end lean. With man-size brass eyelets end wraparound toe 
guard. Long on looks, strong on comfort, great on wear. Made of 
washable cotton duck in a new smoky white chino, also in white. 
N & M widths, sizes 5 to 12, 13. 14. - *
Stampede on down to your nearest store Look fortheWue j 
and let em rustle y up a pair. Ask for 
"Brass Ringer Keds today! It's 
United States Rubber
Rockefeller Center. New York 20, New York

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 15, 196
F21LF$P14F2PDFP42y tK$y5 e9yy 
OxlKPxP C5P52 APa5b$2y ms.m
Sunny weather, fan support and several outstanding 
performances werent enough to bring Carnegie Techs track 
team six more points Saturday. The team posted its first loss 
73-67 against Indiana State.
Weakness in several field events and the hurdles plus 
a last minute injury to co-captalnf
Andy Niedra hurt Tech-s chances. 
The lead shifted back and forth 
throughout the meet, Indiana 
sweeping the high jump and javlin and Tech dominating several 
running events. It came down to 
the final event, the mile relay. 
"With anchor man Niedra out, 
Coach Ed Vaines pulled Bob Dis
kin out of the hop, step and jump 
to fill the ranks. The Tech run
ner Denny Collins, George Craw
ford, Diskin, and Hank Werronen 
put in superior efforts, but inex
perience in baton axchange cost 
the Tartans the race and the 
meet.
Four Lead Tech
Four men kept Tech as close as 
she was, accounting for over half 
the team points. Four-eventworkhouse Diskin nailed first in j 
the 100 yard dash and the broad I 
jump. Werronen was a double 
winner also, taking the 220 and 
discus. Niedra managed a 440 first 
and a second in the half mile be
fore pulling up lame. Freshman 
cross country star, lanky Henry 
Burkholder, handled the distances, 
taking the miile and the two 
mile.
Indiana had outstanding per
formances in Jones and Good. 
Jones took the high jump, soaring 
6-5, and the javlin. Good won 
the hop, step and jump aod the 120 yard high hurdles.
New Names in Column
Tech saw several new faces in 
the scoring column. Little George 
Mink cleared more than double 
his height to take second in the 
pole vault.- Freshman from Ligonier, Roger Cairns, helped Tech 
sweep the mile and just lost sec-' 
ond in the mile. Another hard 
working freshman, Tim MacMil
lan, "hopped to a second in the 
tripple jump.
With improvements in second 
and third place strength, Tech 
should make Indiana their only 
loss. This Saturday the thin-clads 
face Washington and Jefferson in 
the Tech Stadium.
Spectators
Considered
Disrespectful
The growing problem of specta
tor conflict at basketball games 
was the major topic of discus
sion at a recent meeting of Tri
state athletic directors. The gen
eral complaint was that specta
tors are disrespectful and violent 
in reactions against both afficials 
and players. In various high 
schools and colleges fights among 
players have caused spectator 
rioting and serious injury.
Carnegie Tech broke off bas
ketball relations with Duquesne 
because of a rough battle which 
broke out between the players 
at a Tech - Duquesne basketball 
game. Though no such rioting has 
occurred in the Tech field house, 
officials have complained of over
bating by students.
Before future Tech games, spec
tators will probobaly be given a 
formal warning to conduct them
selves properly. The administra
tion does not suggest that Tech 
students refrain from all baiting 
of referees and players. Such (continued on page 11)
a vault: 1-Williams, (T); 2-Mink, 3-Poly, <I). Ueighi-lS-ii.High jump: 1-Joucs, (1); U-Fickes, (X);- -  - Heiglit-G-r. it: 1-  "  t-Borofsk;Javelin: l-.Voi S-Kalogeras, <T). DIsiance-tOt-lO.Discus: l-Werronen, (T); 3-Rus: 3-Schuessler, (T). Diatance-m-6.Broad jump: 1-Dlskin, (T); 2-Jon< (I); 3-WillUms, (T). Dislance-20-81,!:.Tripli Ian, <T); 3-Bender,Mile: 1-Burkhoidei (T); -3-Cairns, (T). Time-4:3D,440: I-Niedra, (X); *2-!
Techman Niedra places second in 880.
ClLlDH ANNVJL
Concert of Folk Music
SONS (p BSiLL^OS ON V&RIOVS SVBJ<=<CS
.Jerry Xlstssxsussen 
& lake Faust
<with Myra Elmers and CarU Glasserand Dwayne Thorpe 
Q/lprit 17 t tqfo Jkibo, 8:Bo pm
Tickets *1 * at c.f.T.Qo ok Stort or at ceilidh, Friday evenings in suibo
O.FM<>J iHinwC OF rtCMMOlOC,Y
10-DISCOUNT
on your
fSi AeTIVOVd
and
CnOSF eIGVfSi
When you present your Tech I.D.
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES AVE.
OPEN DAILY FROM
8 A.M. to 8 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

LWednesday, April 15, 19S4 CARNEGIE TARTAN  Face U
DU batsmen connects for hit against Sigma Nu.
IM'64 Softball Season Begins; 
ATO, BSR Score Impressive Wins
Tallying up 25 runs, the Grad Eagles B opened the 
IM softball season by wasting the BSR "Yankees. The 
farads, benefactors of 14 walks, pounded out 14 hits in their 
victory. But in other Twins League action, the Grad Eagles 
"G team failed in their encounter against the Met Grads
by a score of 17-8. Met pitcher^--------------------------------------------------------
Judd pushed his own victory by
Ca$Kxg t995hPoo N$P15K12 Rr2$? 
F2PD eP14y f2a5|k F9 NPyy 9$2
Spring football drills will be drawing to a close this 
week and with their end, head coach Joseph Gasparella .sees 
some very encouraging signs; In talking with him, he com
mented, We have the same pass receivers back this year 
that we had last, in Dave DOppolonia and Jim Black and
they each have a year of experi-*--------------------------------------------------------ence with our offensive system \ 
behind them. Jim Clark has 
shown marked improvement and 
we are expecting good help from 
Bill Coleman. Next year we will 
have to depend more on passing 
probably pass first, run later.
With Paul Wiznewski back at QB 
with a fine arm and with as good 
as  receivers as will be found in 
the league, the outlook for next 
season is quite good,
During Spring drills these last 
two weeks the Tartan gridders 
have been working mainly on 
passing and receiving mechanics.
Along with coaches Gasparella 
and Richard McCabe the receivers 
have gotten able- assistance from 
Red Mack of the Pittsburgh,
Steelers. In these workouts, the, 
players are receiving a great deal 
of individual help on passing 
. mechanics that is hard to get 
I during the rush of the fall sea
son when the emphasis must be 
placed on leam operation. Coach 
McCabee is also giving much at
tention lo pass defense, which was 
definitely lacking last year.
Working with the linesmen 
again this year are coaches Ed 
Fay and Jesse Quatse. The line
men have been on a weight pro
gram on alternating days with running on the field. Here again 
a lot of individual help is being 
given. The coaches said that next 
year's season the Tartans will be 
strong at center and guard with 
old stalwarts John Mordecai, Dave Heil, Jack Love, Linsey 
Sargent, and Bill Patula. But they 
said that there will be a lack of 
depth at tackle where Pete Mangarella and Pete Bair will be 
back.
Next seasons offense will be 
essentially the same with wideopen running and passing*. Bol
stering the running attack will be 
Dick Merril, Dave Gilchrist, and John Snyder. Wisnewski will be 
the only experienced quarterback 
but Gasparella has a great deal 
of confidence in his passing and 
ability to control the team. Doing 
the kicking will be Love, Wis
newski, and Gilchrist as last sea
son.
Tech will again run into a depth 
problem in the coming season 
especially with the NCAA switch
ing back to the free substitution 
and^ thus the platoon system. 
Since only 8 men are back from 
the basic 15 that played last sea
son and as Coach Gasparella puts 
it, that doesnt add up to 11. 
Thus freshmen could again play 
an important role in determining 
a successful campaign next year.
SAVE 
YOUR
PENNIES
uns, while teammate 
Sliockey led with 3 hits,
In Twin League action Saturiy. SN defeated the DU by 12-2 
Tiie only action in the Brave 
_ found a well-balanced 
team win over the "Organi 
iiilion by a 20-4 score. While 
ATO Jim Hagarman led with 3 
hits and runs, pitcher Higgin
botham turned in a fine pitching 
performance.
In the Yankee League, the BSR 
Mets blasted the Tau Delts 
team by a 22-3 score.-In a much 
closer league game, the Civil 
Hammers, led by Brandt and Eggenberger, edged the EE Grads s-4.
-^The BSR Yankees lost their 
second game of the young season 
lo the BTP A team in Giants 
League action. The Finks 
forfeited the only other league 
game to PKA 
The Jag League iurnished two 
more respectable games, ATO J 
raking the Whales and SAEs Jag 
leam beating BTP J. Roberts 
lead ATOs hitting while Whit' 
latch gave them a fine defensive 
Jimc lo lead the ATOs to a 7-6 
victory. Tranquilla furnished SA'E 
with the victory margin as he 
.stored 3 runs.
CIT Netmen Get 
Dual Victories 
Of 8-1 Scores
I h c varsity tennis team, al
though getting little help from 
be elements, had a picnic last 
week in defeating St. Vincent and 
j Wayncsburg by scores of 8-1. BeUso of the decisiveness of early 
sl|lLs in singles action, most 
j newcomers to the team were givan opportunity to play, showpromise for years to come.
 Hie team has great hopes for 
paling or bettering last years 
'inning record of 7-2, for they 
returning with all of last 
tins lettormen (of which a sur- | Pi singly hjgh percentage are 
mors.). Close and exciting 
.itches arc anticipated against 
| Westminster (today), Grove City, 3 and Pin. *
Jpecfafors
Disrespectful
(continued from page JO) 
showing of enthusiasm is part of 
llle game. But this enthusiasm is 
j*Nhcallhy and dangerous when it 
j>ccomcs personally abusive. It is 
Pcd that Tcch students will 
*-nduct themselves as good hosts 
jj'd orderly spectators.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: GEORGE KATZENBERGER, JR.
An Assistant Engineer himself only a year ago, George 
Katzenberger, Jr., now supervises two'Assistant Engineers.
George (B.S.M.E., 1961) is the New Jersey Bell Engineer 
responsible for providing for telephone growth in two im
portant: central office exchange areas near New Brunswick.
On his own signature George can approve expenditures 
for additional equipment and facilities costing up to $3000 
apiece, a significant measure of his companys belief in 
his thinking and judgment.
Georges outstanding contribution as an Assistant Engi
neer in East Orange qualified him for his latest promotion. 
He had gained notice for his thoroughness in programming 
equipment additions to central offices and in bis handling 
of layout.and building work for one of the largest telephone 
buildings in the district.
George Katzenberger, Jr., like many young engineers, 
is impatient to make things happen for his company and 
himself. There are few places where such restlessness is 
more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing tele
phone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

---------------------------------------------------

race 12  CARNEGIE TAKTAN  Wednesday. April is, ISM
Modern Botanical Art 
Exhibit To Open Here
A comprehensive exhibition of contemporary botanical 
art and illustration  the first such exhibition in the country 
 opened April 6 at the Hunt Botanical Library, on. Carnegie 
Techs campus. The exhibition consists of about 240 original 
works by 72 artists, 63 of whom are Americans. Others are 
from England, Switzerland, Spaing and South Africa.
The majority of the works are 
water colors or pen-and-ink
drawings, but there are also col
ored woodcuts, wood, engravings, 
lithographs, serigraphs, and lino
leum cuts. Of particular interest 
are a group of linoleum cuts by a 
West Coast artist which achieve 
a delicacy seldom found in this 
medium.
' The exhibition is open to t* . 
public Monday through Friday through August 31. Hours are 1-4 
p.m., except Wednesday when 
they are 1-5 p.m.
The Hunt Botanical Library al
ready contains one of the worlds 
great collections of rare botanical 
books and paintings, the collection 
of the late Mrs. Roy A. Hunt who, 
with her husband, donated the 
Hunt Library to Carnegie Tech in 
18961. Dr. George H. M. Lawr
ence, director of the Hunt Botani
cal Library, explained that be
cause of the excellence of the colDorm-Trojons 
Capture IM 
Swimming Title
The Dorm-Trojans captured the 
I.M. swimming meet title as they 
defeated the Grad Eagles, BTP, 
and TDP. The Grad Eagles opened 
the meet by winning the 150 yard 
Medley Relay with a time of 
1:36.3. Grad Eagle Crecini won 
the 50 yard Butterfly in :29.7 and 
200 yard Free Style in 2:30.1, 
while teammate Bell won the 100 
yard Free Style in 1:10.8 and 
apner the 50 yard Back Stroke 
in :35.1/
But the Dorm Trojans finished, 
first or second in 7 out of 9 events 
to out total the Grads in points, 
by 47-39. The Dorm Trojan 200 
yard Free Style Relay team won 
in 2:03.6; while DT's Portnoy 
won the 50 yard Free Style in 
:27.0, Regan won the 100 yard In
dividual Medly in 1:19.9, and 
Rockwell the 50 yard Breast 
Stroke event in :35.2. BTP finished 
third on the strength of four wins 
each of second, thrid and fourth 
places. TDP won third place in 
the 50 yard Free Style and Breast 
Stroke events to finish fourth 
overall.
R2 n rmsEiF
and pick up your Volkswagen 
right at the factory gate in 
Wolfsburg. The savings are 
tremendous  about $159.00 
on a sedan  more on con
vertibles and station wagons. 
Go on your own or join us on 
M. W, Motors Tour, leaving 
by jet on August 4, return in 
time for the fall term. For 
more information call Mr. 
Paui Muxfeidt at M. W. 
Motors and ask for the March 
issue of Bettle Talk and Tour
ist Delivery Information. 
Today's Best Buy:
1957 Volkswagen Sedan 
Fully Equipped 
Excellent Condition
$695
M. W. MOTORS
731 Duller SI. -Boute 8, Etna
Pittsburgh, 23
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
lection up to 1650 it had ben de
cided to concentrate on the botan
ical art and illustration being pro
duced today. The Library staff is 
systematically collecting at least 
two works by every contemporary 
artist who is considered to be 
doing important work. All the 
works must have been published, 
arid Must be reasonably accurate 
botaaically.
Dr Lawrence stated that 
while it is obviously important 
to preserve the fine work being 
done today, the Hunt Botanical 
Library is the only institution in 
the country which is attempting 
to do so. It is his conviction that 
the collection will some day be 
of immense value to scholars, 
artists, and other interested per
sons.
A catalog, including biographic
al information on the artists, will 
be available for the exhibition.
IM All School 
Basketball 
Team Selected
Five players from five different 
teams were elected to the 1964 
intramural All-School basketball 
team. Those making the teaifr 
were guards Frank Oliver of ATO 
and John Pavlick of DU, and front 
court men Mel Ramey of the Civil 
Hammers, Andy Komer of the 
Grads, and Bill Osterhuis of the 
Grad Physics.
Frank Oliver, the smallest man 
on the team, was the. sparkplug 
for ATO. His driving, shooting, 
and ball handling made him about 
half of ATOs offensive game.
John Pavlick was the big gun 
for Delta Upsilon. He was per
haps th best shot of all the I.M. 
basketball players, and was sec
ond in the MVP ratings.
Andy Komer of the Grad Eagles 
was th mainstay of the Grad 
team that bulled it way to the 
intramural championship. A for
mer Tech star, Andy was also 
elected the years Most Valuable 
Player for his play this season.
Big Bill Osterhuis was easily 
the outstanding player for the
Grad Physics. His work under the 
boards lifted the Grads to second 
place overall.
Mel Ramey, of the Ciyil Hamr 
mers,  is not 'as tall Kotner or 
Oosterhuis, but his jumping, ball 
handling, arid soft shooting made
his an easy choice for his lean?
The second team was made up 
of Jay Lawrence of Sigma Nil 
Chip Lynch oi Beta Theta PL 
Gene. King of the Dorm-Trojans 
and Howie Pifer and Art Saltzman of the Grad Eagles.
C .I TIZIRRE LOVE IFFIIR
 Wanda Hale, Daily Neu*
"AN ABSORBING AND CHILLING FILM! SUSPENSEFUL, 
MACABRE! A triumph for Mr. Mattsson, the director. 
A FINE PSYCHOLOGICAL MELODRAMA!"
Judith Criet, Herald Tribun*
THE DOLL IS CONVINCING EVIDENCE THAT A NEW 
CINEMATIC GENIUS HAS EMERGED IN SWEDEN. ARNE 
MATTSS0N IS A MASTER OF AN IMAGINATIVE CAMERA, 
WITH AN INSIGHT INTO WARPED LIVES!"
Alton Cooh, World TeUfram
ORIGINAL UNCUT SWEDISH VERSION
WE1doll
MIMED IN ENGLIND-MOW*Guild murra^atbeacoh
ONLY FORD-BUILT CARS MEET THE CHALLENGE WITH 
TOTAL PERFORMANCE!
Something wonderfuls happened to Ford Motor 
Company cars! Under the freshest styling seen in 
years, theres a new kind of durability and vigor that 
more than meets the demands of todays and tomor
rows high-speed turnpike driving conditions.
Whats the secret!1 Quality engineering for total per
formance. Qualily engineering so outstanding that 
Ford Motor Company received the NASCAR Achieve
ment Award for engineering excellence which superbly 
combines the prime essentials of great automobiles^1 
performance, reliability, durability, comfort and safety.** 
Totai performance makes a world of difference. Bodies 
and frames are solid and quiet even on the roughest 
roads. The rides so smooth, so even-keeled, it seems 
to straighten the curves and shorlen the miles. And 
nothing matches the spirit, sparkle and stamina of 
advanced Ford-built V-8s and thrifty Sixes. Total 
performance is yours to enjoy in all our 1964 carsfrom 
the frisky Falcon to the matchless Lincoln Continental.
RFRS ARNIVi 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
unTST TVdOVTTSOVd eTIfTSCnON HSOVdC iRG HTFFTS.HGOeF AISC
