i
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 13WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 1963
Decembers Technical 
Highlights Management
New Graphic A rts Ga lleryFeatures 
Porter Garnett Typography Shoiv
The December issue of the Carnegie Technical appeared 
on the stands just before vacation. Its theme is the industrial 
management program which encompasses a diversity of in
terests such as, operations research, behavioral science, fin
ance, and production. By reading the six articles, an under
standing of the academic training of an I.M. undergraduate 
is realized. ?
Rolando Eisen has written two
articles for this issue of the 
Technical. Transport Network, 
which describes a method for the 
determination of maximum flow, 
and Heuristics in Production 
Planning, which is a description 
of mathematically derived rules 
to aid in the decisions involved in 
factory planning of aggregate pro
duction, inventories, and work 
force.
00 An interest in the behaviorial 
sciences is displayed by Roger 
Simon in his Control of Man
agerial Behavior. His article dis
cusses the application of a psycho
logical control such as positive 
reinforcement in industry in 
order to co-ordinate organization
al economic interest and manager
ial self-interest.
James Barr, a junior, has writ
ten Individual Product Sales 
Forcasting. In his article, Mr. 
*Barr discusses the steps in the 
development of a mathematically 
simple method for sales forecast
ing of a single product in a multi
product firm.
A senior and first-year student 
in G.S.I.A., Ronald Reed also 
shows an interest in the behavi
oral sciences and their applica
tions in industry. His article titled 
Predetermined Work Standards, 
discusses understanding of physic* al workers and how they are man
aged.
Robert Mills article titled 
Finite Differential Equations,' 
shows his interest in that field. It 
is a brief summary of finite dif
ference equations and in addition 
gives some indication of their 
practical applications.
Publisher Seeks 
Gag Writer 
In Contest
The latest hit humor book is 
one called Dolls My Mother Never
Gave Me. Its publisher, in coop
eration with the Tartan have ar
ranged a contest to find the best 
gag writer on campus. To enter 
this contest, first look through a 
copy of the book, available at the 
nearest bookstore or by contacting 
Elaine Grumer, 2A1, MU 2-8875 
to use the Tartan copy. Next, 
think up a funnier gag line for 
any of the characters in the book 
such as The Absent-Minded Pro
fessor Doll  you wind it up and 
it loses its key, and jot if down 
on an entry blank. The writer of 
the funniest gag line from Tech 
will win a cash prize of' $25.00 
All entries must be mailec to J. 
W. Books, Inc., 301 East 47th 
Street, New York 17, N. Y. They 
should include the name of the 
character from the book and your 
gag line, your name and address, 
your school and your signature. 
Entries must be postmarked no 
later than January 15, 1963 to be 
e'igible. The decision of the 
^ iudges is final.
Three Students 
Represent Tech 
On Magazine
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy will be represented this 
on Mademoiselles national Col
lege Boar I by Peggy Gilbert, 
sophomore; Donna Lee Flynt, a 
senior; Margaret Anne Riva, a 
junior.
The annual College Board Com
petition is designed for women 
students with talent in art, writ
ing, fashion, merchandising, pro
motion, or advertising. Board 
members were selected on 
basis of entries that showed their 
interest and ability in one of these 
fields.
As College Board members, 
they will report news from their 
colleges to Mademoiselle, 
are eligible to compete for the 
twenty Guest Editorships that will 
be awarded by the magazine in 
May. To win one of the top 
twenty prizes, they must submit a 
second entry to show their specific 
aptitudes for magazine work.
The twenty College Board 
members who win Guest Editor
ships will be brought to New York 
City for the month of June to help 
edit, write, and illustrate Made
moiselles 1963 August college 
issue. They will share offices with 
the magazines editors, advise the 
staff on campus trends, interview 
well-known artists and writers, 
and represent the magazine on 
visits to publishing houses, stores, 
and advertising agencies.
They will also be photographed 
for the college issue, and will be 
considered for future staff posi
tions with Mademoiselle and other 
Conde Nast publications. (As a 
special bonus, the 1962 Guest Edi
tors were flown to Rome, where 
they spent five days attending 
fashion showings, visiting ai't faleries, sight-seeing, and going to 
parties in their honor.)
Patterns Calls 
For Authors 
Manuscripts
All manuscripts sent to Box 402, 
Campus Mail, before the February 
1, 1963 deadline will be individ 
ually acknowledged and discussed 
by Patterns literary staff, editors, 
and faculty advisors for the bene
fit of the author. On written re
quest manuscripts will be return
ed by March 1, with the reviewers 
formal criticism. Authors whose 
materia* has been finally accepted 
for publication will be personally 
notified.
First and most important Pat
terns literary staff and editors 
review meeting is on Sunday, 
January 13, at 6:30 in Room 30, 
Skibo.
Carnegie Tech will officially 
open its new Porter Garnett 
Graphic Arts Galley to the pub
lic on January 14.
The opening exhibit will show 
works of Porter Garnett and his 
students. Garnett was one of the 
best-known typographers of his 
day. From 1922 to 1935 he di
rected Techs Laboratory Press, 
which was part of the first de
partment of fine printing to be 
established in an American uni
versity. Earlier this year Tech 
re-established a fine press in the 
graphic arts department. It is 
known as the New Laboratory 
Press, and is directed by Jack 
Werner Stauffacher, a member of 
the graphic arts faculty and an 
award-winning book designer. 
This exhibit will close February 
2nd.
Gallery hours will be 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. weekdays, 9 a.m. to 
noon Saturdays, closed Sundays. 
The Gallery is locted on the third 
floor of A. H.
Modern Graphic Arts Gallery replaces old library in AH
Scott Morton Stresses Unity 
At International Club Meeting
In spite of approaching exams, and perhaps because of 
them, the tendency to ignore the larger problems of life 
should be fought. International Club is therefore holding a 
debate on Sunday, January 13 at 8:30 p.m. in Skibo.
The topic of the talk will be, The Universal in the Uni
versity.
The speaker for the evening will be the Rev. William 
Scott Morton, Director-elect of the University Christian 
Foundation at New York University. Mr. Scott Morton is an 
accomplished and entertaining public speaker and lecturer 
whose voice has often been heard on lecture platforms at 
the University of Pittsburgh, the pulpit of Bellefield Church
and numerous public forums.
His subject is of great concern. 
In this world of increasing narrow 
specialization, what is there to 
untie us? More specifically, how 
can we find intellectual rather 
than mer' human unity. Mr. 
Scott Mortons thesis is that re
ligion has in its power to be this 
unifying factor  extending even 
as far as dramats and engineers.
The Club looks forward to an 
exciting and stimulating evening 
with a speaker who is both ready 
and able to contend with questions 
from the floor. All are welcome.
Immediately after the mid
semester recess International Club 
and the C.I.T. Ceilidh will jointly 
sponsor an evening of folk sing
ing. The event will take place on 
Friday, February 8th in the Skibo 
Ballroom at 8:30 p.m.
Postal Rates 
Go Up Again
On Monday, January 4, the new 
postage rate increase went into 
effect. Postage rates for first class 
letters are now FIVE CENTS an 
ounce, while air mail letters cost 
EIGHT CENTS on ounce.
First class post cards have been 
increased to FOUR CENTS and 
air mail cards cost SIX CENTS. 
Affixing correct postage on your 
correspondence is important be
cause shortpaid mail can cause 
inconvenience to the addressee.
Additional information on the 
new postage rates is available at 
the campus post office in AH.
S n S Refuses 
To Disclose 
Show Title
This morning an unusual note 
appeared on the" TARTAN desk. It 
was from Regina Ress and read 
as follows: Scotch n Soda is pleas
ed to announce its 1963 produc
tion. Realizing that this was a 
singularly uninformative disclos
ure, I tried desperately to reach 
members of the board to secure 
further information before press 
time.
However, it seemed that they 
were working under a veil of sec
recy. The president of Scotch n 
Soda, Regina Ress, refused to 
ellucidate. I did discover that 
Dean Brown has written the book 
in collaboration with some ob
scure intrigant. Dinah Mathais 
disclosed that Yes, indeed there 
was a title, but she was not a 
liberty to tell Carole Haber said, 
Youll find out. Sue Cronich 
said Dont talk to me buddy  
talk to the piano player . . 
Butch Davis said nothing. Jan 
Parker could not be found. Wendy 
Bers took sick. Jean Renaud re
treated. Lois Croca smiled sweet
ly. Faculty advisor, James DeBlasis, said No comment.
I shall endeavor to ferret out 
further news and views on this 
mystery show'.
Insurance Cards
Students who purchased the 
Tech sponsored accident and ill
ness insurance and who have not 
picked up their identification 
cards are asked to do so as sooa 
as possible. These are now avail
able only at the Health Office ia 
the Gymnasium. When you have 
received your insurance identifi
cation card, please sign it and 
keep it in your wallet or purse.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 9, 1963
Management Students 
Use Modern Equipment
Techs graphic arts management students are now using 
some of the most modern scientific equipment and facilities in 
the world for technical courses in printing engineering. Since 
June almost $200,000 has been spent on constructing and 
equipping new laboratories and studios.
These improvements are the physical side of Techs new, 
scientifically-oriented approach to graphic arts management 
education. Kenneth C. Scheid, head of graphic arts, explain
ed it this way:
Traditionally, college graphic arts facilities are basical
ly simulated production shops arranged for teaching the skills 
of operation. Under the Carnegie Tech approach, the new
laboratories become centers of in-#----------------------------------------------------------
vestigation for teaching in depth j specially-lighted graphic design 
those scientific and enginering j studio and adjoining work room; 
fundamentals important in print- a photographic studio; a typoing technology. Thus they resem- graphy and book-design studio 
ble the laboratories of other en- j equipped with 25 combination 
gineering fields and those found in i stands and drawing surfaces, eight 
firms and institutions where proof presses, and Ludlow equipresearch on graphic arts processes ment. Adjoining the latter facility 
and materials is conducted. . is the graphic reproduction, or
Five new printing engineering experimental printing, studio, conlaboratories, covering about 4000 taining Harris 17-22 single-color, 
square feet of space, the first of ATF Chief 20A, and ATF Chief 
their kind anywhere in graphic li offset presses, a Miehle Vertiarts education, have been built. j cal, and Heidelberg and Chandler 
They include a light and color an- , and Price platen presses. There is 
alysis laboratory, a photographic! also new bindery equipment, 
science laboratory, a photochem- When book design projects require 
ical and photomechanical labora- ! machine typesetting, a small matory, a printability and press sys- ( chine composition service shop, 
tems laboratory, and a paper and containing line type and monotype 
ink laboratory. Equipment in- equipment, is available.
eludes scientific instruments, 
chemical benches, special light 
sources, testing devices, cameras, 
dark rooms, plate-making units, 
and presses.
The photographic science lab
oratory also contains a Macbeth 
Daylight color matching booth, 
optical equipment, color measure
ment and mixing instruments, and 
a large experimental color physics 
bench.
The photographic science lab
oratory includes a new Robertson 
320 graphic arts camera, two asso
ciated master dark rooms, eight 
smaller dark rooms, photo-finish
ing equipment, light and stripAdditional campus facilities 
servicing the graphic arts man
agement program include the E&S 
chemistry and physics laboratories 
and the Bendix G-20 computer of 
the Computation Center.
NYU Offers 
Hebrew Study
Graduate fellowships for the
study of the Hebrew language and 
for the study of Hebrew culture 
and education will be offered at 
New York University for the
ping tables, and light integration j 1963-64 year.
and densitometric instruments. I Available to college graduates,
There are adjoining photochem- ^e fellowships are offered under
istry facilities.  National Defense Education
The photochemical and photo
mechanical laboratory includes a 
Xerox electrostatic unit, litho
graphic plate-making equipment, 
laboratory-scale electrolytic etch
ing facilities, a fully-equipped 
chemical bench, and monocular 
and binocular microscopes with 
photomicrograph attachments.
The printability and press sys
tems laboratory houses three 
Vandercock proof presses, a Har
ris 14x20 single-color press, an 
ATF Chief 15 offset press, a 
Miehle Veritcal and a Chandler 
and Price platen press. Also in
cluded is a press inkometer, and 
stroboscopic lights for photo
graphic studies of ink transfer.
The paper and ink laboratory 
has extensive ink and paper 
chemistry facilities, a laboratory 
ink mill, humidity cabinet, labora
tory ovens, and a complete line 
of paper-testing devices and in
struments, including a tensile 
tester, smoothness-softness-poros
ity tester, folding tester, mullen 
tester, ink rub tester, tearing 
tester, and additional controlled 
environment devices.
Separate new graphic design 
facilities also used in the Tech 
management program include a
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
I the National Defense 
Act and will enable recipients to 
work for the master of arts, doc
tor of philosophy, and doctor of 
education degrees. All fellowships 
provide free tuition at New York 
University.
Further information can be ob
tained from Dr. Abraham I. Katsh, 
director of the NYU Institute of 
Hebrew Studies, 80 Washington 
Square East, New York 3, New 
York. Completed forms must be 
returned to Dr. Katsh by January 
31, 1963.
Fellowships in the Hebrew lan
guage have been designed for stu
dents interested in pursuing col
lege teaching careers or entering 
fields of government service or j 
which a command of Hebrew is 
required. They provide $2,250 per j 
year, plus $600 annually for each 
dependent, and may be renewed 1 
for a second and third year
Tech Admission 
Pol icyClianges, 
Adds Interest
by Nancy Adams
Carnegie Tech has recently 
adopted a new student recruiting 
plan. The new plan is designed to 
develop student interest in Tech 
and provide adequate information 
to high school students about 
Techs three colleges.
The program aims directly at 
establishing Carnegie Tech as a 
logical and desirable choice for 
the nations most talented and 
creative students. It will work to 
establish close and effective con
tact with secondary schools and 
students.
After a four year development 
period, the first step in the new 
program was the creation of an 
Admissions Counseling Office, re
porting to the Dean of Students 
Affairs, whose policies will be 
guided by the student recruiting 
committee. Director of this Office 
is Kenneth J. Wenger. The core 
of the program is the Admissions 
Counsel, a group of alumni educa
tional advisors who serve as 
Techs representatives to a select
ed group of public and private 
secondary schools throughout the 
nation, and act as Techs liason 
with prospective students in their 
areas. The advisors training will 
include a thorough briefing by the 
Admissions Counseling Office on 
his responsibilities and on facts 
about Carnegie Tech. He will re
ceive up-to-date information on 
Tech and its policies at seminars 
and conferences for area chairmen 
and advisors. These chairmen and 
advisors will receive duplicate 
copies of correspondence between 
the school and students in their 
area.
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on yourlose-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
itteit Weteo -Hoffi
4413 PW Av** IX LEWI; MAyflower 1*7700
Now Showing Wed.. Thurs. 
Academy Award Winners 
Ingmar Bergman's 
THE VIRGIN SPRING 
and 
TBROl'GH A 
GLASS DARKLY
Starting Friday, Jan. 11 
Sat-, 8.t Men., and Tes. 
Rock Hudson Burl Ives 
in color 
THE SPIRAL ROAD 
also
Anthony Quinn 
Jackie Gleason 
REQUIEM FOR A 
HEAVYWEIGHT
( mine Soon 
JUDGMENT AT 
NUREMBERG
ADVANCE
ANNOUNCEMENT
TO ALL TECH STUDENTS
0* # IN PERSONefafc aul 
an cJHary
EXCLUSIVELY ON  Warner Brothers Records
Memorial Hall
Wed., Jan. 16 - 8:30
Prices: $2.50 - $3.50 - $4.50
Prior t* public sale, tickets are 
now available at Hornes. For 
mail orders write Shows, Inc., 
Box 532, Pitts. 30.
This Week in Pittsburgh
THURSDAY, JANUARY 10
Film Arts, Shane'. Directed by George Stevens, U.S.A. 
1953. Shown at 4:30, 7:00 and 9:30 in Porter Hall 100.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 11 and SUNDAY, JANUARY 13
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, present Henryk 
Szeryng, violinist.
Aaron Copland  Suite from The Tender Land, - 
Tschaikowslu  Violin Concerto; Borodin  Sym
phony No. 2 in b minor.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17
Syria Mosque, The First Family with Vaughn Meader 
and company. Shows at 7:00 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. All 
seats reserved.
CONTINUING
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Theatre Upstairs  First Night; 
Craft Avenue Theatre  Bye Bye Birdie
Carnegie Institute
January 11February 10, Art Since 1900 
December 23January 27, Painting by Lois Kaufman 
Third Floor Gallery K.
Shadyside  Carry on Teacher
Squirrel Hill  Billy Budd Robert Ryan, Peter Ustinov
Nixon  Mutiny on the Bounty
Gateway  Barabbas Anthony Quinn
Stanley  Gypsy Natalie Wood, Rosalind Russel.
Penn  Jumbo Doris Day, Stephen Boyd
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
Friday, January 11  Cameron Choir Winter Concert 
8:15, Skibo Ballroom.
* Saturday, January 12  High School Honors Band con
cert Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, January 12-22  Drama Department Play 
Cock-a-Doodle Dandy by Sean OCasey Directed by 
Lewis Palter.
Monday, January 14  Carnegie Chamber Orchestra, 
Herbert Grossman, Conductor; Carnegie Lecture Hall 
8:30 p.m.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP *
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIR-CUTS
IS 9Canadl eitehn DChDehr
128 Boaqnet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouqaet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAf ??????? fffff fffff fffff ff W
STUDENT
TRAVEL...
STUDENTS 
CAN AFFORD!
STUDY-TRAVEL
PROGRAMS
some scholarship 
assistance available 
Also Work Camp 
& Hosteling 
42-46 land days ... from $300
33 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Central Europe 
Eastern Europe & USSR 
Scandinavia  Spain 
Turkey  South America 
Israel  Greece 
36-60 land days . . . from $510 
also
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP 
DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS
and
BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS 
$239 all-inclusive by air
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS
International Student ID card.................................................. $1.00Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants).... $1.00Work, Study, Travel Abroad..................................................... $1.00
European charter flights and other transportation
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 
20 West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y 
OXford 5-5070
"USNSA is a non-profit organization serving the American student community
JOBS IN EUROPE
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
Jan. 11 1963 - Would you like to 
work at a Swiss resort, a Norwe
gian farm, a German factory, a 
construction site in Spain, or a 
summer camps in France? Thous
ands of paying summer jobs 
(some offering $190 monthly) are 
available in Europe to U.S. stu
dents.
The American Student Infor
mation Service, celebrating its 
6th Anniversary, will award 
TRAVEL GRANTS to first 1500 
applicants.
For 20-page Prospectus, com- i 
plete selection of European jobs j 
and Job Application (enclose $1 I 
for Prospectus, handling and air- j 
mail reply), write naming your 
school, to: Dept. J. ASIS, 22 Ave. j 
de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, ! 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. I 
The first 8000 inquiries receive a j $1 coupon towards the purchase j 
of the new student travel book, | 
Earn, Learn Si Travel in Europe. 1
TRI-STATE PREMIERE
NOW SHOWING
"EXCELLENTCCCARNE GISTNRTU OSOFHTOH NELN UYSHO yIS NI yISr OHLN!
 McCALl'S Magazine
ROBERT RYAN 
>ETER USTINOV
MELVVN DOUGLASAMO mT*OOUCt*
TERENCE STAMP
SQ.HSLL
4 2 1-4909

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 9, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN'  Pae C

Mott Jacobs and Mike Alien model latest Tech fashions for 
Kansas City Chi Omegas, Toni Wagner and Linda Sprague 
at Alpha Phi Omega's national convention.
Convention Surprises A Phi O 
With Top National Honors
Kappa chapter, Carnegie Tech, 
of Alpha Phi Omega, has been 
named one of the top ten per
cent of the more than three hund
red Alpha Phi Omega chapters. 
The selection of Kappa was re
vealed at the national convention 
held by the fraternity in Kan
sas City, Missouri and came as a 
surprise to the Carnegie Tech 
delegate present.
The Kansas City convention, 
running from December 27 
through December 29 was attend
ed by eleven brothers of Car
negie Techs chapter. They were 
Michael Allen, David Best, San
ford Catz, David Fisher, Mat
thew Jacobs, Kenneth Klos3, Ger
ald McIntyre, Allan Pollock, Prof. 
Kent Shaffer, Kenneth Thomp
son and Fred Welter. All of the 
other chapters were made well 
aware of. Kappas presence by the 
fact that the Carnegie Tech men
all wore kilts and were accom
panied by bagpipes.
One of the events during the 
convention which Kappa dele
gates thought was particularly 
useful was the service exchange. 
Each A Phi O chapter presented 
what it considered its best ser
vice project. From this it is hoped 
that chapters will acquire new 
ideas for expanding their ser
vices.
One of the many distinguished 
speakers was the Mayor of Kan
sas City, H. Roe Bartle. Mr. Bartle has been a member of the fra
ternity for many years and has 
served as its National President 
for sixteen years. Mr. Samuel 
Babbitt, as personal representa
tive from President Kennedy al
so spoke on the subject of Peace 
Corps. Another speaker was Wil
liam S. Roth, who has just com
pleted four years as National 
President.
$ri-Delts Offer Scholarship 
To Promising Tech Woman
Between January 1 and March 
1, 1963, all women students at 
Tech are eligible to apply for a 
Tri-Delta Scholarship Award, 
whether or not they are sorority 
members. There is no restriction 
as to race, creed, or color, but 
applicants should be well-quali
fied students, showing promise of 
valuable service in their future 
communities.
Awards may be as much as $300 
and only those chosen will be 
notified. The award winners will
be announced on May 15, 1963. 
Scholarships will be forwarded to 
the winners at the beginning of 
the term designated by them and 
may be used for the 1963 summer 
session.
Application forms are available 
at the Financial Aid Office, AH 
150. Application deadline is March 
1, 1963. All interested students are 
urged to apply. The Scholarships 
are donated by the Delta Delta 
Delta General Scholarship Fund.
Students Given Opportunity For 
Studying Languages In Europe
Students at colleges and uni
versities across the nation are 
invited to participate in a new 
language study program offered 
in Europe by Michigan State Uni
versity during the summer of 1963.
Six-week intensive courses in 
French at Lausanne, Switzerland; 
in German at Cologne, Germany; 
in Italian at Florence, Italy, and 
in Spanish at Madrid, Spain are 
now open to students with some 
background in the language they 
wish to study.
At a low cost of approximately 
$500 to the student, the plan in
cludes air transportation from 
Nek York to Europe and return, 
tuition for the six-week language 
course, and board and room with 
European families while partici
pating in the program.
A period of approximately 15 
days following completion of the 
course is allowed for travel at the 
students discretion, costs of which 
are not covered by the $500.
Chartered planes will leave the 
United States for Europe during
Dr. Byers Gets 
Committee Job
Dr. Donald J. Byers, associate 
professor in the department of 
graphic arts and chemistry, has 
been appointed to the Research 
Committee of the Lithographic 
Techinacal Foundation for the 
year 1963.
A native of Manchester, Iowa, 
Dr. Byers received his B.S. de
gree in chemistry from Iowa Uni
versity and his Ph.D. in organic 
chemistry from the University of 
Minnesota. From 1941 to 1945 he 
was a research chemist for Du 
Pont, and from 1945 to 1955 was 
assistant supervisor, graphic arts 
division, Battelle Memorial Insti
tute. From 1957 to 1961, he served 
as a lecturer in chemistry at the 
University of Bridgeports even
ing school. Dr. Byers jointed the 
Tech faculty in Aurust of this 
year after having served as a rehearch chemist for Time Inc., 
since 1955.
LEWIS
RADIO-ELECTRIC CO.
RAOIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
Sales - Repairs
115 Oakland Ave.
MA. 1-5211
Dont pay for a 
checking account!
At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. Just 
keep a $200 balance. Theres no service charge. No maintenance charge, No 
charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your bills the easy way. 
Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office and open your free personal 
checking account. (Union National Bank also has a special personal checking 
account that requires no minimum balancechecks cost $2.00 for a book of 
twenty.) Come in today.
VOL UME5M NBE5MNR 1NM3 5W DEBBSAY,JO
the second week in July. Courses j be obtained by contacting Fredbegin on Monday, July 15. The  ric Mortimore, American Lanreturn flight leaves Europe the guage and Educational Center, 
second week in September. Continuing Education Service,
Additional details on the pro
gram and application forms can
Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Mich.
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland
On Campus
with
Maxfihulraan
(Author of I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
A GUIDE FOR THE UNMONEYED
R. L. Sigafoos was a keen, ambitious lad, and when he finished 
high school lie wished mightily to go on with his education. It 
seemed, however, a forlorn hope. R. L.s father could not send 
the boy to college because a series of crop failuras had brought 
him to the brink of disaster. (R. L.s father raised orchids which, 
in North Dakota, is a form of agriculture fraught with risk.)
It was, therefore, squarely up to R. L. He could go to college 
only if he worked his way through. This was a prospect that 
dismayed him. He had a deep-seated fear that the task would 
be too great, that he would never be able to carry on a full, busy 
college life and still find time to do odd jobs and make money.
Racked with misgivings, R. L. paced the streets, pondering 
his dilemma. One day, walking and brooding, he came upon a 
park bench and sat down and lit a Marlboro cigarette. R. L. 
always lit a Marlboro when he was low in his mind. R. L. also 
always lit a Marlboro when he was merry. The fact is there is 
no occasionhappy or sad, pensive or exuberant, cheery or 
solemnwhen Marlboro with its fine filter and fine flavor is 
not entirely welcome, as you will discover when you go to your 
favorite tobacconist and buy some, as wethe makers of 
Marlboro and I and R. L. Sigafooshope you will do real soon.
Sitting and thinking and smoking a Marlboro on the park 
bench, R. L. was suddenly interrupted by a small, quavering 
voice which said, My boy, you are troubled. Can I help?
Seated beside R. L. was a tiny, gnarled man with wispy, 
snow-white hair. His skin was almost transparent, showing a 
delicate tracery of fragile bones beneath. His back was bent, 
and his hands trembled. But his eyes were bright and clear. 
R. L. looked into those eyes, into the wrinkled face. He saw 
wisdom there, and experience, and kindness. Do you think, 
sir, said R. L., that a boy can work his way through college 
and still enjoy a rich, full campus life?"
Why, bless you, son, replied the stranger with a rheumjr 
chuckle, of course you can. In fact, I did it myself.
Was it very hard? asked R. L.
Yes, it was hard, the stranger admitted. But when ou 
is young, all things are possible. I, for example, used to get up 
at five oclock every morning to stoke the furnace at the SAE 
house. At six I had to milk the ewes at the school of animal 
husbandry. At seven I gave a fencing lesson to the Dean of 
Women. At eight I had a class in early Runic f>oets. At nine I 
gave haircuts at the Gamma Phi Beta house. At ten I had dif
ferential calculus. At eleven I posed for a life class. At twelve 
I watered soup at the Union. At one I had a class in Oriental 
languages. At two I exercised the mice in psych lab. At three 
I gave the Dean of Women another fencing lesson. At four I 
had qualitative analysis. At five I went clamming. At six I cut 
meat for the football team. At seven I ushed at the movies. At 
eight I had my ears pierced so that at nine I could tell fortunes 
in a gypsy tearoom. At ten I had a class in astronomy. At 
eleven I tucked in the football team. At twelve I studied and 
at three I went to sleep.
Sir, cried R. L., I am moved and inspired by vour shin
ing example!
It was nothing, said the stranger modestly, shaking its 
frail white head. It was just hard work, and hard work never 
hurt anybody.
Would you mind telling me, sir, said R. L., how old von 
are now?
.Twenty-two, said the stranger. im* *u.
You don't have to be a rich mans son or daughter to enjo? 
Marlboro cigarettes, available in mft-pack or Hip-top bo* 
mt your favorite tobacco counter
Mtinbtf ftiUiti teKivt SjitMl / Memba fidarti Oepasit linurtac* Carpar##

---------------------------------------------------

Pape 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 9, 1963
Editorial
Should Exams Be Endurance Tests?
I happen to be lucky this semester. My teachers 
check with the students before finalizing the date 
for an hour exam. If a particular date is ali'eady 
booked with more than one exam, the additional 
exam is scheduled for a different date.
Regretfully, some teachers announce the exam 
date without considering prior arrangements made 
in other courses. The result may be three or even 
four exame in one day, and none receives the stu
dents best work. Tech should be an experience in 
learning, not in stress. An exam is given to en
able a teacher to grade his students according to 
their ability, not their prowess in withstanding 
overwhelming pressure.
Yes, college students are not babies any more, 
but neither have they attained superhuman char
acteristics. Perhaps the faculty members should 
try imagining themselves in the students place and 
should consider how they would like taking four 
exams in one day. Some probably did it themselves 
during their college days, but I doubt such exper
iences helped their grades.
One argument teachers may have against reReoders Write
scheduling an exam is that they have planned a 
certain segment of the semester and want a speci
fic amount of material, including that of the last 
lecture, covered before the exam. Is it that they 
have already written the exam and do not want 
to think up a question excluding the material of 
the last lecture? Or could it be that they have 
taught so little that they cannot devise an hourlong exam which excludes the preceding session? 
If either of these is the case, a way to ease the 
situation is starting new material on the day ori
ginally intended for the exam and giving the exam 
during the following session.
Some teachers may say that their students 
have never mentioned multiple exams. If students 
never complain to teachers, it is not because they 
enjoy taking several exams in one day, but rather 
because they believe their complaints would be 
ignored. This impression would quickly disappear 
if teachers asked students about other exams. The 
students would appreciate it, and tests would be a 
more accurate means of grading.
E.C.G.
Politics Highlight Commentary
Is Axelrad Being 
Irrational?
Editor, The Tartan:
Mr. Axelrad, in his last col
umn entitled On God, has 
turned out another typically 
worthless article (as only he 
knows how). Once more he has 
fallen into the trap of making 
unsupported statements.
Ke attacks all systems of 
mono-theistic belief under the 
term religion. This is an untvarrented assumption that they 
are all basically identical. I will 
confine my discussion to that of 
a supreme being.
He states that a religion ex
pressing a belief in a supreme 
being, can only be accepted on 
faith, for the  . . . one con
cept about which we know 
nothing (on a rational basis) 
is the concept of a supreme be
ing. He is implying that all 
faith in God rests on an irra
tional basis. This is also an unwarrented assumption in addi
tion to being a worthfess opinion.
It is worthless because he 
fails to define what he means 
by rational. Does he mean 
that w'hich merely seem1: log
ical to him? At one time it 
seemed logical that the earth 
was flat. What criteria does he 
consider necessary for a belief 
to be rational? He does not 
state it for the obvious reason 
that he has none. His only cri
teria is what Axelrad thinks is 
rational must be rational. Ein
stein believed in a supreme be
ing, without any doubt, on a 
purely rational basis. Is Axelard 
implying that Einsteins belief 
rested on an irrational basis?
In the nineteenth century a 
belief in miracles, as con
tained in the New Testament, 
was considered completely ir
rational. But today, any scien
tist who fully investigate. simi
lar incidents, especially at 
Lourdes where they are contin
ually occuring, has no choice but 
to accept them as undisputed 
facts. The evidence is over
whelming and only an irrational 
person would reject their va
lidity. Why do they occur? How 
can an inch of bone be instan
taneously created in a mans 
leg? Science has no explana
tions as yet; only unsubstan
tiated opinions . and mere 
guesses. What about the appear
ance of stigmata, a known 
fact for centuries; the incidents 
related to the lives of the 
Saints; the complete fulfillment 
of Biblical prophecies; and the 
nnodern day appearances of the
Blessed Virgin? Why do such 
present day incidents only oc
cur in Christianity? All of these 
and more give us a rational in
sight into the concept of a su
preme being. Yet Axelrad, 
through ignorance of the sub
ject, discusses only generalities 
in which a conclusion can never 
be reached until a more through 
analysis is made.
Even our History of Arts and 
Civilization courses gloss over 
the subject of Christianity for 
lack of time to fully present it. 
This results in an unavoidable, 
partial distortion of truth.
But getting back to AxeTrads 
unsupported assumptions, 
we can only hope that in the 
future he lights his candle be
fore he writes his articles.
Bill Mogush
that. Having had the training, I 
would fight to prevent such an 
encroachment on those things 
that are dear. An emotional 
statement, perhaps, but openly 
so.
No, we have not whipped the 
Cuban poodle enough. Hope
fully we have moved aside in 
time to spoil his aim, and have 
forced him and his leash-holding master to move to a more 
comfortable tree. It is good that 
a fire-hydrant has more water
power, once the cap is opened, 
and hence the ability to squirt 
back.
Michael Adler
GSAI 63
Peace Is Possible 
Only With Allies
Editor, The Tartan:
There is a temptation to let 
sleeping dogs die, (to change the 
metaphor), but dead bodies 
soon petrify. The Students for 
Liberal Thought and Action 
evidently have a penchant for 
distinctly perishable, wishywashy opinions. They are emo
tionally expressed and should 
be emotionally answered. We 
have a difference of perception.
Peaceful co-existence with 
Cuba, or any other country is a 
beautiful thought. Unfortunate
ly, it seems to be possible only 
with allies, and not with de
clared enemies. It is possible 
that aggressivness, when com
pared with human behavior is 
juvenile  but then Toynbee 
has pointed out that maturity 
is so far an individuals perogative, that the affairs of nations 
are not conducted maturely in 
this sense and that deploring 
the situation may bring satis
faction but is not practical. 
Miss Kadish and Mr. Meyrich 
may feel superior to their coun
tries leaders. I should however, 
greatly doubt their capacity to 
make better decisions. Their at
titude is as questionable as the 
vague, idealistic policies they 
advocate.
Politics are the art of the 
possible. It will be possible to 
exist with Cuba only if her 
communist evangelism can succesfully i>e contained. The lat
ter is a question of survival, not 
maganimity, and must come 
first.
I personally believe that I 
could not live in a totalitarian 
state. A communist state is just
Liberal Explains 
66Realistic View99
Editor, The Tartan:
One of the difficulties in pre
senting realistic suggestions for 
the world peace is that too 
many people still believe in 
whipping poodles. Poodles can 
also be handled, and effectively, 
by scratching them behind the 
earsand so too can bears be 
handled.
It is often assumed that paci
fism, non-violence, and brother
hood are nice ideas, but basic
ally and inherently unrealistic. 
It is too often thought that sug
gestion of disarmament and ne
gotiation inevitably mean soft
ness towards Communism. With 
such bias at hand, it is difficult 
for peace groups to exert any 
useful influence.
The military game which the 
world has been playing has de
veloped some rather unique con
cepts such as continental anihilation, fallout, and multiple 
overskill. Such things have a 
distinct unreality of their own. 
Is militarism still a real solu
tion to world problems or are 
we not forced to look for more 
pacifists solutions?
There were some interesting 
side affects to the Cuban crisis. 
In this country, lots of people 
got seriously concerned about 
bombs, for this first time. But 
the strong-arm tactic which the 
country played worked pretty 
well  and maybe there was 
nothing to be worried about  
maybe.
One thing should be noticed 
is that the Russians acted with 
a relative degree of decency and 
responsibility in a /ery provo
cative situation. Why? Maybe 
the militant anticapitalists are 
not popular in Russia now. We 
could assume that there is some 
small sincerity in the Russion 
(Continued on Page 5)
Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Medicare
Congress has reconvened and soon will begin consider
ing legislation. One particular bill that is sure to arouse 
bitter debate is the bill to furnish medical care for the aged 
through the social security system. Partisans of these leg
islation claim that it is a step toward greater security for 
people of all ages and a highly desirable a piece of social 
legislation as was the orinigal social security law; detractors 
argue that it is a step toward socialized medicine. The con
flicting claims should be examined.
The proponents of medicare say that it is undesirable 
for people to have to put away a large part of their working 
years to prepare for possible later medical expenses, or if 
persons can not afford to pay, to place services to them on a 
charity basis. Many people claim that something must be 
done about this situation.
Opponents of medicare claim that the bill would place 
unfair new restrictions on doctors and, in any case, the same 
objectives can be achieved by private insurance. The priv
ate insurance idea does not seem realistic. The insurance 
companies are not willing to shoulder the burden for the 
wide variety of services the government can offer; it is just 
not a paying proposition. It has been claimed that the re
strictions to be placed on doctors are reasonable and, any
way, they are for the common good. This rebuttal is per
haps not sufficient, and the value of placing restrictions on 
any group can be argued, but for the purposes of this article 
it will be allowed to stand.
A more essential question comes to the forefront  Is it 
fair to make people pay for a service whether they want to 
receive it or not? Many people would rather have their so
cial security taxes given to them now instead of collecting 
them at some distant time. The few dollars a week given 
would make many people happier. Of course these people 
probably would not have the foresight to save for their old 
age, and would have to go to the poor-house. But is this 
solution not fair? People who have the intelligence to save 
(perhaps through a voluntary social security system) for 
their last years will be able to live secure lives while those 
who did not think ahead will suffer. In other words a 
premium would be placed on having some measure of in
telligence.
It ,-s not advocated that social security be abolished > 
that would be nearly impossible todaybut that it be put on 
a voluntary basis. For example workers could be given a 
form which if filled out would enable them to claim their 
social security tax in cash at the same time they get their 
normal wages. Note that this plan places the burden of re
jecting social security on the wage earner. It is each indivi
duals decision. Is this not just?
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE O f TECHNOLOSY
Offices: Skibo. Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13. Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 1- 
1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annua) Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa 
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Executive Editor .........
Managing Editor ............................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ..........
News Editor ....................
Assistant News Editor ..
Features Editor ................
Advertising Manager ...
Sports Editor ....................
Layout Editor ....................
Secretarial Editor .........
Circulation Editor .........
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum. Colin Jones, Margie Park. Henry Henderson, 
and B.J. Zimnewicz
Layout Start: Fritz Klinke, AI Pollock, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Drew 
Lippay, Marion Mulligan, Ann Carten, Holly Lawerencc.
Sews Staff: Colin Jones, 'Marty Moore, Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky, Jaye Lapidus. EIHe Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan. Lois 
ElinofT. Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Maity Sauer, Chuck SJeinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers, Jan Scharp, Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sports: Scott McCormick, Ken Kantrowitz.
Photography: Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinebaugh
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows. Mary Breitenstein. Jean Cline, Susan Witt
Circalation: Tom Johnson. George Kali and Jay Priest
Features Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan, Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Licberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad. Marion Mulligan. Judy Meyers, Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Matt 
Nesvisky, Matt Swetonic, Marty Sauer, Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.
Cop; Staff: Clarita Dzatko, Jan Wurmb, Nancy Green, Ginny Uliss, Nancy 
Cameron
Photograph;: Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinbaugh, Bill Jackson
Features Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan, Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad. Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers, Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer, Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 9, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
Chapel Hosts 
Annual Service
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
% ksEBow  Favored
Women Men
SMART CASUALS HUSH - PUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Readers Write Cont.
Liberal Questions 
American Values
Hilton Sponsors Essay Contest; 
Winner Takes European Tour
*
(Continued from Page 4)
outlook for peace and world co
operation. Perhaps the best way 
to make Russias really trust
worthy and peaceful is to treat 
them in that manner. Perhaps 
a unilateral initiative towards 
disarmament by us would convinoe them that we mean busi
ness on this subject, too. In 
other wordshow about bluff
ing peace as strongly as we 
bluff warthats never been 
tried.
And what about the economic 
jfc ravages of disarmament? The 
militaary expenditure of our 
country, although an enormous 
part of government spending 
and a large single force in the 
economy represents only 8% of 
the gross national Product. 
Any degree of disarmament, ac
companied by commensurate 
cutting of taxes, is economically 
feasible. Putting more money in 
consumer hands will compensate for smaller defense spend
ing. Disarmament depends much 
more on the political and socio
logical will of the people. It 
seems really pitiable that most 
people of \his world must bear 
this self - entangling military 
burden which cannot untimately, 
be useful.
Is it still valid to think in 
terms of one nation whipping 
another?
* How does military defense 
make people less afraid, or bring 
about real security?
Is our country so unsure of 
its own real foundation that it 
must fear Communism?
What is so fundamentally un
real about ideas likerecogni
tion of all nations, non-violence, 
international neutrality, bombtest moratoriums, World Law, 
brotherhood of manthat they 
* should not be considered and 
tried?
Hilton Tours is sponsoring an 
essay contest on the subject 
What a Trip to Europe Means 
to My Education.
Rules and Regulations
1. This competition is open only 
to bonafide students between the 
ages of 18 and 20 registered at 
any junior college, or university 
in the United States or Canada, 
except in states or provinces 
where such is prohibited by law. 
A letter from the registrar at
testing to the official student sta
tus of each entrant must accom
pany each essay.
2. Essays on the subject an
nounced above must be no long
er than 1000 words. They must 
be typed, double-spaced on white 
paper, and the entrants name 
must not appear on any of the 
pages. Entrants name and ad
dress should appear on a sepa
rate piece of paper attached to 
the entry.
3. Deadline for submissior of 
entries will be Feb. 1, 1963. En
tries must be postmarked before 
midnight of that date to be eli
gible.
4. A panel of judges selected 
from educators within the Val
lejo Unified School District, Val
lejo, California, will select the 
winner.
5. The winner will be advised 
personally and public announce
ment of the winner will be made 
by Hilton Tours on or before Feb. 
25, 1963.
6. The winner will receive a 
free trip to Europe with one of 
the several Hilton Student Tours 
to Europe from Montreal or New 
York and return during the sum
mer of 1963 at a minimum pub
lished value of $1095. Passage 
to and from ports of embarking
n d personal spending money 
are not included.
7. The decision of the judges 
will be final, and all essays be
come the property of Hilton 
Tours.
Address Entries to:
Hilton Tours 
P.O. Box 1007 
Vallejo, California.
SYRIA MOSQUE
THURSDAY, JAN. 17th
* 2 Big Shows * 
7:00 and 9:30 P.M. 
????????? 
*e btl Hie Nation's No. I
Just erase that one little brick
YoiiU make the wisest choice 
no matter which Chevrolet you choose!
These four different cars are alike in one expect only in costly cars. Chevy II feaimportant way. Each is a product of 
Chevrolet Division of General Motors. 
So each will give you more performance, 
beauty, comfort and good news at tradein. But each is tailored to a certain kind 
of buyer. Our big Chevrolet 
has the Jet-smooth ride, 
luxury and styling youd
tures parkable size, perky performance 
and outstanding fuel economy. Corvair 
gives you rear engine maneuverability 
and sports car flair. The new Corvette 
Sting Ray can best be described as 
dramatic. With a choice of 33 
models, theres one Chevrolet 
that will suit you best.
Keeps Going Great
How can peace groups, who 
believe in such things, possibly 
hand the world a do-all so
lution to its problems?
The Student Peace Union in 
its'statement of purpose 
seeks new and creative means 
of achieving a free and peaceful 
societybut all people need to 
p seek this before it can be real
ized.
Paul Parkinson 
For the Liberal Club
The traditional Carnegie Tech 
.-and University of Pittsbugh 
* Christmas Candlelight Service 
was held on Monday evening, 
December 17, at the Heinz Chap
el on the Pitt campus.
The service was student led 
and featured readings from the 
Bible, special Christmas music, 
and the singing of Christmas 
Carols. The event was sponsored 
by the Campus YMCA and 
YWCA of Tech and Pitt. 
i Participating in the service 
were: Carole Ann Breuer and 
Robert Lundgren as Readers; the 
Chorus of Phi Mu Alpha and 
Sigma Alpha Iota, the profes
sional music fraternities; and 
Janet Lillich at the organ.
created and produced by 
EARLE D0UD & BOB BOOKER
^CARNEGI Onamp usaSSnsT 
????????? 
reCnr Cn Cgg thaker
Tickets: (Inc. tax) S2.50, $3.50 and
$4.50  oil sale NOW at R. E. BALTZ 
AGENCY. Volkweins, 632 Liberty 
Ave. (AT. 1-2!). Also at Hornes 
Department Store. Mail orders accept
ed. Please mention performance 
wanted.
Shown (top to bottom), *63 Chevy II Nova 1*00 Station Wagon, Chevrolet Impala Sport Sedan,
Corvette Sting Ray Sport Coupe and Corvair Monza Club Coupe
See four entirely different kinds of cars at your Chevrolet dealer's.

---------------------------------------------------

Pae 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 9, 1963
Tech Pioneers in AP Program; 
Pittsburgh High Schools Benefitr? o
Over a four year period grants 
totaling $173,500 have been made 
by the Fund for the Advance
ment of Education and the A. W. 
Mellon Education and Charitable 
Trust to introduce and spread the 
Advanced Placement Program in 
History and English to schools in 
and near Pittsburgh.
Each year an opening dinner 
meeting for teachers, counselors 
and administrators explains the 
entire program. All the teachers 
involved attend the Advanced ( 
Placement Conferences sponsored 
by the College Entrance Examina
tion Board each June. A one 
month Summer Seminar on the | 
Tech campus introduces teachers > 
to subject material and teaching j 
techniques. Bi-monthly meeting 
throughout the academic year help 
to resolve problems and to as
sure joint planning have been 
most popular.
During the four years of the 
program almost 150 teachers have 
attended the Summer Institutes. j 
in September, 1963. sixty-six of | 
these teachers will meet Advanced 
Placement classes which will en
roll approximately 1300 students. I 
An equal number of sti dents may 
be enrolled in the pre-AP course : 
specifically designed to prepare : 
students for demanding, college j 
level work; these classes are also 
being taught by teachers who at
tended the Summer Institute. No 
other program in the entire coun
try approaches this one in size.
The effect of the entire program 
can be seen in several areas. The 
Advanced Placement Examina
tions show varied results. After 
three years, one school has had 
only a few successful candidates; 
on the other hand three schools 
have established records among 
the best in the nation. In most 
schools the students taking the 
examination have reached the na
tional average for the number of 
students earning marks which will 
receive credit at most good col
leges.
Subjective evaluations by stu
dents revealed universal support 
for the program. Replies to a 
questionnaire sent to 400 students 
who had taken Adanced Place
ment courses in the Pittsburgh 
Public Schools indicated that they 
would take the AP course in 
preference to the regular course 
if they had the choice to make 
again. There was widespread 
agreement, even among stude.Vs 
who had not taken the examina
tion. that the AP courses had 
been excellent preparation for 
college work.
The AP program has also af
fected the high school curriculum. 
The Tech English Department has 
designed an eleventh grade Amer
ican Literature Course to pre
cede work in advanced placement. 
This course has been widely 
adopted. Scholastic Magazine has 
retained Professor Robert Slack of 
Carnegie Tech and Mrs. Lois Jo
sephs a former Taylor Allderdice 
English teacher now on the fac
ulty at Tech to edit an anthology 
based upon the course. A grant of 
$220,000 from the Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare for 
a curriculum development for 
able students will continue in the 
hands of those people who de
veloped the Advanced Placement 
Program.
A course in Introduction to the 
Social Sciences for sophomores 
headed toward AP has been, 
taught successfully at two schools 
for three years. In the summer 
of 1962 this course was revised 
to meet the requirements for a 
World Cultures Course set up by 
Uie Department of Public In
struction. he new material devel
oped for this course will be tried 
out during the 1962-63 academic 
year and then published.
After their successful experi
ence with the English and/or His
tory program, a number of the 
cooperating schools have begun 
advanced placement courses in 
other subject ^disciplines, partic
ularly mathematics and the sci
ences. Plans are nov under way 
to develop science and math 
courses through a further cooper
ative effort between Tech and the 
Pittsburgh Public Echools.
Teachers of advanced place
ment courses and of the prepar
atory courses, precede them all 
testify to the marked effect which 
this program has had on all of 
their teaching. They have learned 
new technipues and have mas
tered new subject material. These 
new ways of doing things have 
been widely adapted into the 
thre regular classes which these 
teachers meet.
Applications for advanced 
standing at local colleges have 
increased markedly each year. At 
least thre colleges have organized 
special programs for Advanced 
Placement students. The quality 
of work done by these students 
has been universally good. The 
program has had national reper
cussions. About 5000 copies of the 
syllabi drawn up by the staff have 
been circulated at request to
60 GSIA Graduate Accepts Job 
As Director in Fed. Housing Adm.
Louis N. Teitelbaum, left, a *60 grad student at GSIA is shown 
taing the oath of his new post from FHA's Deputy Com
missioner Paul E. Ferrero, right.
teachers all over the country. 
Several Summer Institutes have 
drawn widely upon the C.I.T. ex
periences. The national Advanced 
Placement History Conference 
was held at Tech in 1961 and at
tracted 360 delegates. Thirteen 
articles or pamphlets have described the program. Visitors have 
flooded the advanced classes in 
several schools. It is clear from 
all this evidence that the program 
initiated by Carnegie Tech and 
the Pittsburgh Public Schools has 
had a marked impact upon the 
national scene.
Louis N. Teitelbaum, a 1959- 
1960 graduate of G.S.I.A. is the 
Federal Housing Administrations 
new Director of Audit and Exam
ination. Mr. Teitelbaums entire 
cgareer has been in the fields of 
auditing and management rehearch. Since 1960 he has been 
Planning and Systems Analyst for 
the Auditor General of the U. S. 
Force in Washington, D. C.
He had had previous Govern
ment experience as an auditing 
executive with the Department of 
Labor and earlier with the Public 
Works Administration. Between 
927 and 1934 he did public ac
counting work and hela various 
accounting and administrative po
sitions in private industry.
Mr. Teitelbaum is the author of 
several published articles on in
ternal auditing and statistical 
sampling in a auditing, as well as 
being the recipient, in *946, of an 
award for meritorious civilian 
service and again, in 1960, of an 
award for outstanding perform
ance of duty.
He is a member of th  Federal 
Government Accounting Associa
tion and past Chairman of the 
association, with responsibility for 
the budget and fiscal operations 
of the organization. He is also a 
member of the Institute of In
ternal Auditors and Board of 
Governors, and of the American 
Accounting Association.
Salem refreshes your taste
 air-softens//every puff
With every Salem cigarette, a soft, 
refreshing taste is yours. Salems special cigarette paper breathes in fresh air 
...to smoke fresh and flavorful every time. Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem!
 menthol fresh  rich tobacco taste  modern filter, too
(, IN2 R J Reynold Tobacco Company. Win* ton-Sale, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 9, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 7
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evening.
Tech Cagers Give Titans Trouble, 
Play Aggressive Zone Defense
By JOHN BLUE
If there was any apathy in the 
Tech gym the night top-ranked 
| Westminster eame to town, it 
would have taken a veritable 
Sherlock Holmes to find it. A full 
house of Tech rooters nearly lifted 
the roof off as the Tartan team 
gave undefeated Westminster the 
scare of their lives before bowing 
in the end, 71-68.
Key to the near-victory for the 
undermanned, unranked, Tartans 
was a hustling zone defense that 
forced the taller Titans into num
erous mechanical mistakes. In all, 
Tech forced the invaders to give I up the ball on turnovers a total of 
25 times, most for the Titans in 
two years.
Tech actually hit five more field 
goals than did Westminster, leading in that department by 27-22. 
However, when the smaller Tech 
team was forced to foul to offset 
a height disadvantage, the Titans 
converted 27 of 32 foul tries as 
compared to Techs 14 *or 20.
Even though the defeat evened 
Techs record at 3-3, the game 
showed why Tech is playing .500 
ball this season as compared to 
> .000 at a comparable time last 
year. Down by 13 points early in 
the second half, Tech showed no 
signs of give-up and battled 
back to take the lead 51-49 dn a 
Borkowski layup.
Fouls began to hurt Tech at this. They played a helluva game, he 
point, and as Titan foul shots be- [ said, and if we continue like this, 
gan to drop with monotonous 11 wont woiry. 
regularity, Tech began its uphill i Official Game Statistics:
battle to come out on top. The 
spirit was willing, but the flesh 
was weak, and goals by Morri
son and Frazier werent enough to 
turn the tide.
Borkowskis steal and driving 
layup at the final buzzer made the 
score 71-68. The Titans Oravetz 
led the scorin gaprade with 20 
points, followed ty Techs George 
Frazier with 19.
A disappointed but now down
hearted Coach Mel Cratsley had
no complaints after the game. Halftime Score: Tech 30, Westminster 41.
TECH6ftftrbspfpts
Cupps7341657
Laird103446210
Werronen5100102
Morrison145323512
Frazier338433419
Borkowski86435315
Thomas0000010
Niedra3111723
Term3
70272014342268
WestminsterIs areftaftrbsPipts
Sallade1262210414
Oravetz10413128520
Skurcenski42751329
Schrenengost94761214
Lockwood76234414
Guiwn000.0000
Riggsns1000000
Team5
43223227411571
Officials Tu1Helman. CliffFair
LET YITAIIS KEEP YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE!
Keep the oil in the can. In your hair, use Vitalis with V-7, the 
greaseless grooming discovery. Fights embarrassing dandruff, 
prevents dryness-keeps your hair neat all day without grease.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: TOM ROBINSON
On his first assignment with Bell of Pennsylvania, Tom 
Robinson (B.S., 1961) was assigned to the General En
gineering Department. As a long-range planner, he 
handled economic studies involved with providing better 
telephone service.
On one such project, Tom planned the introduction of 
a new type of telephone with push buttons instead of a 
dial. Here as on other studies, Tom was urged to include
his own ideas in his work. And many were accepted. 
Because of his success in handling assignments like this, 
Tom was recently promoted to the Equipment Engineering 
Group, his latest step forward.
Tom Robinson and other young engineers like him in 
Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help 
bring the finest communications service in the world to 
the homes and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
First half play followed this 
pattern. Techs defense was oper
ating at almost maximum effi
ciency, but Westminsters hot 
shots still were able to pump them 
in from anywhere on the court.
With the score 15-13, favor 
Tech, Sallade, Dave Shrecengost 
and Bob Oravetz combined in one 
two-minute spread to push the 
Titans to a 20-15 bulge. Long 
goals by Morrison and Frazier 
couldnt catch Westminster as 
they continued to push their ad
vantage to a 41-30 halftime lead.
A hustling Tech team roared 
out of the dressing room at halftime, allowed Shrecengost one 
goal, then proceeded to outscore 
the Titans 21-6 to take the lead, 
51-49. The reason for this surge 
was obvious. With Joe Laird mak
ing remarkable defensive plays, 
Sam Cupps battling on the boards, 
and Morrison and Frazier hitting 
their long jumpers, the team took 
on a professional lustre.
The Titans finally found their 
shooting eye and began to score 
again. They had to, because Jules 
Borkowski, in for Sam Cupps who 
had fouled out, took up the basket 
barrage where his teammates had 
left off.
Big Lou Skurcenski opened the 
scoring for the Titans hitting on 
a free throw. Ray Morrison came 
back to give Tech the lead on a 
20-footer. Titan Warren Sallade, 
small college All-American last 
I season, countered from the corner 
to make the score 3-2 in favor of 
the Titans.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, January 9, 1963
Tech Tramps Edinboro; 
Wins Its Game Quota
By JOHN BLUE
Back on the winning track after 
dropping a close one to the West
minster Titans the night before, 
Carnegie Tech's basketball team 
pushed above the .500 mark as 
they downed Edinboro State, 
63-60.
Ray Morrison led both teams in 
scoring with 23 points, with Edinboros Petchel a distant second 
with 13.
Noticeably not as sharp as the 
night before, Tech made frequent 
ball-handling mistakes. Only the 
shooting of Morrison and the 
stabilizing influence of Joe Laird 
kept Tech in contention when a 
full-court press was thrown at 
them.
Although not playing really 
good ball, the Tartans were still 
working hard on defense and re
bounding well against the taller 
opponents.
First half play was a see-saw 
affair that saw the lead change 
hands 7 times. Ray Morrison hit 
on 6 of 9 field goal attempts to 
keep Tech in the fray. Both teams 
had identical shot records, having 
connected on 9 of 29 shots. The 
four-point lead accumulated at 
the foul line gave the Staters a 
29-25 lead at the half.
After halftime, Tech couldnt 
find the basket and saw Edinboro 
run its lead to 41-31. At this point, 
Jules Borkowski entered the game 
and Tech caught fire.
Joe Laird pumped in two, 
Cupps hit under the basket, Bor
kowski got two fouls and a bas
ket off a fast break, Morrison hit 
a 10-footer, and Frazier swished 
one to even the score at 43-43. 
Edinboro got 4 more quick points, 
then saw Morrison and Bowkowski tie it again at 47-47.
Tech finally took the lead on a 
long set shot by Bodkowski with 
3:45 left in the game, 55-53. Edin
boro called time, and came back 
with a full-court press.
Tech refused to let its compo
sure be ruffled, and began to work 
carefully against the furiously 
pressing defenders. Joe Laird hit 
2 fouls, Werronen 3, and Morrison 
1 in the final 2 minutes to put the 
game out of reach.
With the win, Tech now has a 
4-3 record, with prospects right
Bowling Tilt 
Planned In N.Y.
Intercollegiate Bowli.tg 
Competition
The ninth annual National In
tercollegiate Bowling Tourna
ment, held in conjunction with 
the 60th annual American Bowl
ing Congress Tournament, will 
be held in Buffalo, New York, 
this April.
Fifty-five finalists will com
pete in team, double and single 
events. The winner of the all
events title will be awarded the 
coveted Morehead Patterson Tro
phy, a modern Grecian sculpture 
by William King. The finalists 
will receive all-expense paid 
trips to Buffalo for the contest.
All college students, including 
junior college and grad students 
are eligible to participate in the 
tournament. Last year, 146 cam
puses were represented in re
gional competition. Further de
tails may be obtained by writing 
to Dale Brostrom, Tournament 
Director, North Dakota State Uni
versity.
S. GREEN
All Waltkn Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-614
Geneva Crabs Victory 
From Sleeping Tartans
for the rest of theseason. Withby John Blue
one-thirdof itsschedule played,Carnegie Tech was all cockedTech hasnowwonasmanyasand primed for Genevas Petelast year'steam wonin23games.Croud when the two teams tangled
Official Game Statistics:at Geneva last Saturday, but Tech
TECHfgaHHaftrbspfptssuffered a misfire and Geneva
Petchel114652413Crouded Tech to a 73-63 victory.
Forcucci3310146Croud stuffed in 8 of Genevas
Barker72841823first nine points before Tech woke
Gerber7111323Up, and by this time it was tooSims4230224late. Tech pulled to within 3 atMarshall
Schnder
Rojik
2
10
2
1
5
1
20
20A
1
0
1
2
12
8
9-6, then saw Jim Jackson take
244
B9
3over and score 8 straight to give
Shenefeit4100302Geneva a 17-10 lead.
Bananszak1000000Tech never did get its offense
Fusetti3100002or defense untangled in the first
Team10half and saw Geneva carry a 41-
5422201646166026 lead to the dressing room at
Edinborofeafgft aftrbsPfptshalf time. Croud had 14 and
Neidra7110422Jackson 12 to equal Techs score
Laird73331329between them.
Cupps43641510Techs expected second halfMorrison
Frazier
Barkowski
17
11
9
10
2
4
3
3
5
3
3
3
5
1
1
4
1
5
23
7
9
surge almost caught Geneva when 
Tech outscored them 17-7 and was
Werronen1043413down only 5 points at 48-43. Irons
Thomas0000000|and Croud then cooled off the
McGeary1010300threat with a couple of three point
Team6plays.
57222619382063From that point the closest Tech
could get was 7 points at 66-59.
Croud led both teams scoring 
with 24, closely followed by Techs 
sophomore guard, Ray Morrison, 
with 23. Sam Cupps was the only 
other Tech player in double 
figures with 10.
Techs season record dropped to 
4-4 with the loss.
The team will have a chance to 
raise their record when they meet 
a strong Washington and Jeffer
son squad tonight at the Skibo 
gym. Tech won the first game of 
the series, 67-57, when they had 
an unbelievably hot shooting 
night. W&J will be out for re
venge, and may get it if the Tar
tans let down for a moment. JV 
game time is 6:30 with the varsity 
game to follow at 8:15.
Official Game Statistics: 
TECH FG FT PTS
Laird .......................... 9 3 7
Morrison .................... 9 5 23
Cupps ...................... 4 2 10
Frazier ...................... 2 0 4
Borkowski ............... 1 3 5
Werronen ................. 1 0 2
McGeary.................... 0 1 1
Ritchie
Neidra ........................ 3 2 8
23 17 63
Geneva FG FT PTS
Croud ........................ 9 6 24
Close ........................... 14 6
Irons .......................... 5 6 16
Jackson ...................... 7 2 16
Aloi ........................... 2 0 4
Worsham ................. 1 5 7
25 23 73
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack C C C or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
Get Lucky
Flay "Crazy Questions
50 CASH AWARDS A MONTHC ENTER NOWC HERES HOW:
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and youve done a 
Crazy Question. Its the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below, then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. Winning entries sub
mitted on the inside of a Lucky Strike wrapper will get a 
$25.00 bonus. Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
(Based on fhe TPNs.PYow bYYk "nTe QoewtPYn IsnW")
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to %), clarity and freshness (up to V4) and appropriateness (up 
to fa), and their decisions will be final. Duplicate prizes will be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the-entrants own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month, October through April. Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that month's awards. Any entry received after April
30,1963, will not be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners will be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulations.
THE ANSWER:
oHda jffeys
euozuy jo -p siAea '0 se|8noa
siuauqjede
epuoy suado leqM :NOIJ.S3f 3Hi
j THE ANSWER: 
I
Don't GixJe up 
the Ship
'fl asnoejXs s>joojqjjsB3 3 jauer
Modoern i.ueo noAji 
op noA pinoqs *eqM :NOIlS3f 3H
THE ANSWER:
FraiT 
DOWlf
'n S 8X1 MiJON 'AjeajQSft  piejag
sjaqieaj Gapop s,>pnp Aqeq 
e ||8D noA op *eqM :NllS3n 3H1
THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:
n WS pues '1 U3X
*a3picu e q*iM xoq noA 
uaqM *a8 noA op *eqM :N0llS3n 3H1
Stagnatoti
ms 0)uiuej3es iUJ0tps uuer 
uauuoM inoqiiM Ajjunoo 
e neo noA op *eqh :N0llS3n 3H1
THE ANSWER:
MYTH
tiujojieo o n 'inojj. -y euea 
|ji3 a|3uiq) e 
qiajppe noA op hic :NOIlS3n 3HJL
THE ANSWER IS:
Get Lucky
Hie taste to start with ...the taste to slay with
THE QUESTION IS: How does one discover fine-tobacco taste in a cigarette? 
Well, that was easy enough. Luckies are famous for taste. Its the reason why we 
say: Lucky smokers stay Lucky smokers. (Why dont you say it a few times?) 
Find out for yourself why Lucky Strike is the most popular regular-size cigarette 
among college students. Pick up a pack today!
0A. r. c*.Product of xdnuvum <J<^UDCv-&y>any  is our middle name
