the Tartan
t
Volume 67  Number 8 ____________Wednesday, October 25, 1967
Fire In Donner
Studies and homecoming pre
parations were interrupted late 
last Thursday night when a fire 
broke out in the first floor north 
wing of Doner Hall.
According to the Office of 
Student Affairs, the fire started 
when several students, fooling 
around in one of the rooms 
ignited some styrofoam which 
had been used originally for 
carrying liquid nitrogen. They 
moved it out into the hall but 
had to leave it by the stairwell 
near the Dorm Management 
House due to the intense smoke.
An alarm was turned in at 
11:37 pm by Walt Panko. and 
students were evacuated in an 
orderly fashion. However, had 
it not been for Dan White and 
Walt Panko who went back to 
check through the rooms, five 
boys locked in A-14 unable to 
get out due to the faculty door 
locks might have been injured 
from smoke inhalation. As it 
was, there were no known in
juries.
After the firemen left security 
remaind on 24 hour check. The 
men on duty didnt leave until 
the origin and nature of the fire 
had been determined.
Three students later admitted 
voluntarily that they had start
ed the fire. Eugene Milich, Asst. 
Dean of Men, talked to the three 
men on Friday to get a prelimary report and analyze their 
statements. Once their degree 
of responsibility has been deter
mined, they will be referred 
either to a dorm court or dis
ciplinary committee, based on 
what the deans feel was the po
tential danger of the action to 
the college community.V.I.P. Rep. Here
David Goldberg, visiting the 
United States as an educational 
consultant to Zionist and oth^r 
ycuth organizations, spoke at 
the Carnegie Hillel Foundation 
Monday afternoon in Skibo.
Mr. Goldberg, a high school 
English teacher in Haifa, Israel, 
discussed the changing attitudes 
of Israeli Jewish students toward 
America and American Jews. 
Until the war, the students pre
dominantly felt isolated as a na
tion from other Jewish peoples. 
With the outbreak of war, the 
influx of volunteers from all 
over the world and the support 
given both financially and 
through volunteer organizations 
showed that it wasnt only the 
Israelis who were involved, but 
people from all over the world.
This belief has been rein
forced by the continuance of 
volunteer programs such as Vol
unteers for Israel Program and 
Ccmmoi, which operate similarly 
to our own Peace Corps. Many 
students and professional peo
ple are participating in these pro
grams by spending six months, 
a year, even as much as two or 
three years in Israel.
The only requirement for be
coming a member of VIP is a 
willingness to help. Teachers, 
business men, laborers, social 
workers are all needed. Students
(Continued on Page 3)
^Confront The Warmakers: 
The Battle of Washington
Last weeks Peace March in Washington, D. C. was billed as 
an opportunity for peacemakers to Confront the Warmakers, 
which inherently suggests not a demonstration, to be staged by 
one interest group and watched by whoevr cares to watch, but an 
actual conflict, a confrontation, between two opposing interest
^groupsa veritable pitched bat
tle.  '
The real possibility of a pitch
ed battle began to manifest it
self Friday evening, when the 
100,000 peacemakers streaming 
into the Capitol city learned 
that 15,000 military police and 
regular combat troops had been 
assembled there to maintain orMer and to protect the Pentagon, 
objective of Saturdays march. 
But the scene next morning at 
the Lincoln Memorial, starting 
point of the march, was more 
like a Sunday Barbecue than 
the gathering of an army. 
The sky was clear and sunny, 
the grass (both kinds) smelled 
sweet and inviting, and the U.S. 
\ Army was not in evidenceun
less one skirted the extreme 
edges of the crowd and noticed 
the helmeted heads peering 
watchfully over walls and fences 
in the distance.
People socialized and ate pack
ed lunches. Few listened to the 
speakers. There were no inci
dents.
^ The march started forming 
about three oclock, and by five 
oclock perhaps one-third of the 
crowd had arrived at the north 
side of the Penatagon. A line 
of MPs, armed with riot sticks, 
linged the outer courtyard of 
the building. The crowd pressed 
gradually closer to the MPs, 
v/no stood their ground quietly. 
** I hen the line broke, and for 
ive frieghtening minutes the 
Battle of Washington was on. 
I he peacemakers poured up a 
ramP into the Pentagon court>ard and stormed the doors. Out 
f the dcors came Army regu
lars, bristling with rifles and 
bayonets. They beat the front 
rank of marchers away from the 
^building and back into the court
yard. The sight of rifles momen
tarily panivked the crowd, and 
they tried to retreat. But there 
was nowhere to go  another 
line of solidiers was forming
across the courtyard to their 
right, the courtyard wall was be
hind them, and a new wave of 
marchers blocked the ramp to 
' he left. Tear gas canisters were 
touched off at the bottom of the 
ramp.
Then march leaders started 
shcuting Sit down! Sit down! 
over megaphones. So the march
ers sat down. Two thousand 
peace marchers sat down amidst 
the rifles in the Pentagon coutyard, another thousand sat down 
at the bottom of the ramp, and 
several thousand more stood 
from of the re-formed outer 
line of MPs.
The war of nerves and endur
ance began. From the time the 
initial ruckus died down till the 
las:i couple hundred sitters - in 
were trundled off to jail Sundaynight, not a shot was fired. The 
soldiers couldnt take the of
fensive, because theirs was a 
defensive role, and they had 
been instructed to avoid con
flict if at all possible. The 
marchers coudnt take the of
fensive, because to do so would 
entail physical violence, which 
was against their precepts. (Al
so, they were outnumbered and 
outflanked.)
For a while, the marchers got 
satisfaction from the defiance 
of the act of merely sitting-in on 
off-limit3 government property. 
They sang songs like We Shall 
Overcome and God Bless 
America, and chanted at the 
soldiers Throw down your 
guns! and Join us!.
As it got dark, the crowd 
grew quiet. Marchers began 
leaving  many had to catch 
chartered buses home. Some 
curled up to sleep, some smoked 
pot, couples snuggled together 
under blankets. Those nearese 
the lines of soldiers grew rstless, and chanted and sang from 
time to time. Those in the rear 
(Continued on Last Page)
Mime Troup To Deal With 
Hypocrisy In America
m
Kay Hayward as Rosalinda and Sandra Archer as Corallina in 
the S. F. Mime Troupe's L'AMANT MILITAIRE
The San Francisco Mime 
Troup, fresh from its seventh 
season of presenting commedia 
dellarte perforrrtances in the 
parks of the Bay Area and 
throughout Northern California, 
and as part of their first internaitonal tour, will bring its cur
rent production, LAmant Militaire, to Carnegie-Mellon on Sun
day and Monday, October 29 a 
and 30, at 8:30 in Skibo Ball
room.
Commedia Dellarte (Italian 
popular comedy), a highly 
stylized form of theatrical pre
sentation, began in Italy in 
the 16th century. For nearly 
200 hundred years from 1500 
to 1700, bands of migrant ac
tors traveled throughout Eur
ope performing their impro
vised in streets, marketplaces, 
fairgrounds, and palaces. They 
carried with them a rough 
wooden stage that could be 
quickly assembled, a painted 
curtain which served as scen
ery and the commedia masks 
which instantly identified each 
character.
Contemporary Targets, 
Renaissance Spirit 
LAmanat Militaire, translated 
from Goldonis Italian play by 
Betty Schwimmer and adapted 
for commedia presentation by 
Joan Holden deals with the dif
ficulties to both visited and vis
itors when a large, powerful 
country invades and occupies a 
smaller nation in the throes of 
civil war. The Mime Troupe has 
attempted to follow both the 
practice and the spirit of the 
roving Renaissance players, 
choosing contemporary targets 
for satiric reference, retaining 
the contemporary tone of the 
Italian popular comedy.
There are the stock commedia 
characters  the grasping mer
chant, Pantalone; lovely daugh
ter; shrewd servant, Brighelle; 
bold lover; plus General Garcia 
of the invading army, a revolt
ing, mincing amalgam of every 
military madman and our own 
beloved president. Eight actors 
sing and dance, play recorders, 
bang cymbals and tambourines, 
improvise and generally recreate 
the chaotic commedia atmos
phere, slaughtering several cows 
in the process.
Maintaining the Mime 
Troups reputation for relent
less pursuit of disturbing is
sues, a reputation which reacltinternational proportions 
through its production A Mins
trel Show, Or: Civil Rights in 
a Cracker Barrel, the troupes 
current show, in the words of 
one critic, manages to plant 
a firm foot in just about every
bodys mouth but its own. 
Low-cut blouses, slapsick, sing
ing, and dancing make the per
formance lively and provoca
tive at many levels.
Audience Challenge
R. G. Davis, director of the 
Troups (who incidentally plays 
General Garcia in the show) says 
of LAmant Militaire: The show 
is meant to disturb as well as 
to entertain. It disturbs us as 
performers, and I am willing to 
expose myself to the same thing 
we expose the audience to. We 
are not interested in listless aud
iences that go to the theatre only 
to verify their own prejudices. 
It is the conception of puritan 
culture that art should endorse 
its morality and flatter its patri
otism. We take a risk in putting 
these shows together, and we 
ask that the audience also take 
risks.
We want to deal with hypo
crisy in America. I try to deal 
with it onstage for all. I cant 
say this is the conclusion to 
the audience. I have to let them
(Continued on Page 2)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 25, 1967
MUSIC HALLSAT. EVE.OCT. 28
FIRST MAJOR SPANISH DANCE 
COMPANY OF THE SEASON!
MARIA ALBA Spanish Dance Co.
"xtraordinary. Great Dancer"NJ. Timet"A Truly Greet Star 'Chicago Tribunt
MUSIC HALLSAT. EVE.^OV. 4SHOSHANA SHOSHAN
leading soprano of The Israel National Opora singing 
Israeli Songs It Piccini, Schubert, Mosart, Torino selections
MUSiC HALLMOW. EYE.NOV. II 
Direct from Spain"th great and savaga artist, John Stainbeck
MANITAS de PLATA fiomenco gettarist
MUSI C HSIAL LUTTU.ES VOUS.LU2S8FUERAL2
EACH DATE
SPECIAL for all CMU Faculty. Students and Stoff.
2 $6.60 Ticket* for the PRICE OF 1 
ORDER NOW by PHONE ONLY-922-2030 or 922-2031 
ALSO AVAILABLE AT Pin UNION BLDG.
TTTJTTTPTJPTTTTTPTTPTTTTTTTTPTTPTTPTTPJJPTTPNJPTTPTTPNPPTDPTTPTTPTTPTTPTTPTTPTTPYPTTPTTPTTPTTSTUTTTT!TPTTPTTPTTTTTTTTPTTPTTTTTT^TTTTPTTP44i
Guerilla Theatre Comes to Pgh.
the Experimental Film Group presents -
The San Francisco Mime Troupe I
performing their brilliant anti-war satire, LAMANT MILITAIRE
in the Commedia dell'Arte tradition =
So authentic you had no difficulty imagining yourself back in | Venice in the 17th century . . . nobody has ever done anything like them . . . precision clowning pushed to its ultimate refine- =ment. - |
Kenneth Rexroth, Fi Examiner n
Indecent, obscene, and offensive to both children and adults.*' |
SF Parle and Recreation Commission i
. . . the audience was sivept up in the whole affair, applauding,  commenting audibly (Bravo! Bravo]') and laughing." 
Ralph Gleason, SF Chronicle i
Guerl Ua.S SIU2 U2 hUtA UE SIA SL.oUSUHE Hm SIA 4SHTU.E .Eo n
iLAEsI 2SLAAS .sSHL2g .Eo EHS .ESHtUtAg TUBA h.LsAT h.LsA.Ow d
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 29th and MONDAY, OCTOBER 30th | 
8:00 . . . p.m. SKIBI Ballroom, Carnegie-Mellon University 
FryklurFg W?vp: .Eo W0v:: Vlul1-,g W0p: .Eo WCvp: P
Tickets at door, or from SKIBO Information Desk.
tl(ll|!llll|ll|llltll!lllllll|lllllllltllBlltl ll! Ill !|ll|l !|l III IllltllllllllSlllllllll! tSIIII IStlSllllllflllllillltlllllll! Ill l| ilSI |||I|1||T
Two CIT Graduates Star in N.Y. Drama
Two out of nine of the play
ers in a new drama opening 
in New York on October 25 are 
graduates of Carnegie Tech  
and one of them has the lead
ing role that insders believe 
may well catapult her into star
dom.
It is Jams Young who is be
lieved to be poised on the spring
board to fame because of her 
showy role in Where People 
Gather, a new play opening on 
October 25 at the Grameroy 
Arts Theatre.
This play which takes its 
theme partly from the famous 
Geneovese case of public apathy 
during the commission of a mur
der in a suburb of New York in 
1964, chronicles the adventures 
of a girl who has been cut 
adrift by the loss of her soldiersweetheart. Miss Young plays 
this central figure on whom one 
violent, pathetic or humorous in
cident after another is piled dur
ing the plays action.
Miss Young, Cleveland-born, 
shone so well as a drama stu
dent at Carnegie Tech that she 
was awarded a Fulbright scholar
ship for further training in Lon
don.
The other Carnegie alumnus 
who is in the cast of Where 
People Gather is Elek Hartman, 
who has baen a busy participant 
in stage and TV activities in 
New York for over five years.
Since her return from London, 
Janis Young has acted leading 
roles with the American Con
servatory Theatre in San Fran
cisco, Chicago and while they 
were at the Pittsburgh Play
house, and with the Association 
of Producing Artists in various 
cities. She also toured widely as 
the daughter of the late William 
Bendix in Never Too Late. In 
tlvision she appears frequent
ly in the Edge of Night series 
and she was in The Group on 
the screen.
Mime...
(Continued from Page 1) 
decide collectively and individ
ually. Hopefully their conclus
ions will be the same as ours. 
It not, then its didactic theatre 
and I might as well have writ
ten an essay. We cannot agree 
that it is disloyal to tell what is 
happening all around us as we 
see it. The Vietnam War is ob
scene. To delete obscenity where 
it really occurs is good public 
relations work but bad theatre. 
There is nothing more shocking 
than fact with all the ideologies 
and explanations taken away, 
but facts are what we have to 
live with, work with and face if 
anything is ever to change. It 
is this freedom and honesty and 
creativity, remarks San Fran
cisco Critic and noted column
ist. Ralph Gleason, that has 
kept the Mime Troupe the most 
exciting in interesting theatrical 
group in this or any other city.
Tickets for students are priced 
at $1.50 and $2.50, and are avail
able now at the reception desk 
in Skibo, and at the door at the 
time of performance.
THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
SPEECH AND HEARING CENTER in 
cooperation with the VOCATIONAL 
REHABILITATION ADMINISTRATION, 
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATON B WELFARE, is conducting an 
experimental program in stuttering 
therapy. If you are a stutterer and 
would be interestod in receiving 
therpy under tbis program, please 
contact the project secretary, Mrs. 
Rhodes, Monday, Wednesday or 
Friday morning, 9:30 a.m. to 12 
noon. The phone number is 621- 
3500, Extensions 439 or 440.
^Jlirouah ^Jhe cjCoohinij (jla.SS ...
The Most Dangerous Game
The War Game
...by TIMOTHY BAY
Overshadowing our age constantly lies the threat of a nuclear 
war. The ialse security and moral dishonesty with which most, 
of us regard this threat has often, in the course of the last few 
years, led us perilously close to the edge of irretrivable darkness.
The War Game, Peter Watkins controversial film presents 
us with the logical extension in the unspecified future date, of 
our present suicidally misguided course of action.
The film itself is merely 47 minutes long and is presented in 
the coldly factual terms of a newsreel.
As the film opens, we are presented with the chain reaction 
resulting from a new world crisis. This time, the Chinese in re
taliation to an American invasion of the North have come in South 
Vietnam; while an American attempt to break through to Berlin 
has been overwhelmed, and in line with NATO Policy, America 
has been forced to retaliate with nuclear weapons.
Prepared for British televisionbut not shown because of itj 
terrifying realityThe War Game shows the consequence of this 
war on the citizens of this small English town of Kent.
The actors are all amateurs, actual citizens of this town of 
Kent, and through their faces, Watkins registers their awesome in
ability to even vaguely comprehend the enormity of the catastrophe.
Their bodies hideously charred, over half the population either 
slowly, futilly try to establish some order. The film is more hor 
rible, not because it dwells on the initial disaster itself, but in 
its description of the crippling social, moral, and psychological 
effect of the attack. The film ends with the breakdown of morale, 
and the predictable collapse of law and order. There is fortunate
ly, little of the obsessive concentration on horror which character
izes most anti-war films; the horror of reality in this case hardly 
needs exaggeration. To achieve his ends, Watkins uses very little 
technique in the usual sense. The film reproduces beautifully, how 
ever, the quality of a newsreel. The raw effect, and the smoothly 
innocuous voice of the commentator contributes toward this 
end. The film, with its naked simplicity and emotional power, be
comes in Dwight McDonalds words Cinema with the Skin off.
The War Game does not hold out any false hopes with a sug 
gested course of action, nor does it fatalistically say that this 
must happen.
Watkins directly attacks us for our unwillingness to face 
reality. The hypocritical attitude of many clergymen toward nu
clear weapons is attacked in the film: intercut with the newsreel 
footage are actual quotes from churchmen, which in their pious 
reconciliation of atomic war with Christian belief, seem almost 
are those people who optimistically believe in the natural continua
tion of life after a nuclear attack. This mentality is demolished 
by the short appearance of an an economics professor who in 
all seriousness describes the Post World War II English society 
as not merely livable, but in terms that make it seem even civilized.
The ulltimate blame, however, resides in ourselves. We have 
watched, at a helpless remove, as with the growth of a cancer, 
atomic weapons have spread throughout the world. Insulting our
selves from the prospect of war with a misguided belief in the 
humanity and intelligence of our leaders; we have watched these 
leaders often misuse this power.
Dwight McDonald in the current issue of 3squire has suggest
ed that this film be shown to the members of Congress. I think 
even Congressmenwhose main qualification for office seems 
to reside in their amiable medocrityshould have certain doubts 
after seeing this film. For instance they should question the ne
cessity of our nuclear stockpile with its potential of killing every 
man, woman, and child on earth, at least four times over.
The War Game in its chillingly understated way, raises many 
questions that are of vital importance.
This film is at the Strand in Oakland, along with two other 
excellent short features. Tickets for this movie are being sold by 
American Friends Service Committee in Baker Hall. The man
agement of the Strand is to be congratulated for showing thU 
film; unlike Thoroughly Modern Millie this film will not please 
everybodyhowever, it should be seen.
Presents live 
entertainment nightly j \
Mand REID JAYNES TUES. at the keyboard !>
WED. Songstress TINY IRVIN 
THE REID JAYNES TRIO;!
229 S. Highland Ave. THUftS.: popular request
EAST LIBERTY FRI.: THE REID JAYNES
theTaerr nVolu m6m7
A story of the new-beat bold-tempo mods and minis... 
and a teacher who was strong and hip enough to make them 
cool it and call him Sir!
be,yh4- f4bry1lF fLA2.ES2 777SIDNEY POITIER
3-hlF bT-cl,,F 
f1ekybr4eu ei 
TO SIR. WITH UWE
TECHNICOLOR*
?p SI WllK

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. October 25, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 3
- nthone Review
Accident4 'games people play
vv ayvv
TONY LAWRENCE
Out of the Harold Pinter grab bag comes a near brilliant 
screenplay for a film that has caused many a brow to furrow. 
Accident is the second merging of talents between writer Pinter, 
director Joseph Losey, and actor Dick Bogarde. Their first ven
ture, The Servant, though receiving some critical acclaimis a 
rather dismal failure; despite relatively good performances by 
Bogarde and James Fox.
This time, and in color, a striking young woman (Jacqueline 
Sassard) is a tutorial student of a professor (Bogarde) at Oxford. 
One by one she manipulates, alienates and, finally, loses (save 
one) Bogarde, a wealthy young aristocrat (Michael York) and 
another professor (Stanley Baker). How she does it isnt terribly 
intricate and yet is highly sophisticated in structure. When it 
comes time to light somewhere she chooses the arist'jerat tor 
marriage, only to lose him in a macabre accident.
Losey seems to have Jound a way to pick things up. The longwinded tedium of The Servant is not nearly as evident. His choices 
in the quiet, soft spoken scenes worked well and in many cases, 
I found, astonishingly well. Bogarde is fast becoming one of the 
great all-time screen actors. Not since Emil Jannings has an actor 
displayed such a complete sense of craftsmanship in a screen per
formance. We not only see it in early films like Song Without 
End, but even in unsuccessful films like I Could Go on Singing 
where he was the only staccato note in a series of flats. In King 
and Country his dynamic, yet subtle, force is developed into 
something that is a thrill to see. His acting has also seemingly 
found a niche that has allowed him to grow and expand.
Miss Sassard, Michael York and Stanley Baker are equally 
fine and are quite skilled in this type of sometimes-vague art 
film. Vivien Merchant, as Bogardes wife, is superb. Aside from 
her perfect understanding of the Pinter line, there is a very spe
cial underplayed quality that only enhances her character. When 
she is deep in thought, relaxing or saying a lineher self con
tainment and substance become charismatic and it becomes dif
ficult to look elsewhere. Even Pinter has written himself into a 
brief, but hilarious, scene that gives us a look at Pinter the actor. 
It is well done. The crisp, tasteful and dazzling photography is by 
Gerry Fisher and an appropriate score has been provide^ by John 
Dankworth.
Playing with Accident is one of the most insipid short sub
jects around. Called way up or something like thatmiss it if 
you can. Accident is currently on view at the Sbadyside Theatre, 
a movie house that is interested in presenting more than just 
rim of the mill flicks. My hat is off to them.
P.S.: No matter whatdo not miss the San Francisco Mime 
Troop which will be on campus for two performances only, Sun
day (Oct. 29) and Mondays (Oct. 30) nights at 8 pm in the Ball
room. Tickets may be obtained through the Skibo Information 
Desk. I saw them two years ago do a marvelous production of 
Tartuffe in the true Comedia del Arte style. They are truly worth 
seeing.
Film Arts Society 
Promises Extras"
Film Arts has announced some 
changes in both its movie sched
ule and its organization.
Tom Jones, the Tony Richard
son comedy starring Albert Fin
ney, will be shown Feb. 22 in 
place of the suddenly unavailable 
You Cant Take It With You. A 
special assortment of silent 
Chalain shorts will be shown 
throughout the year as part of 
Film Arts pledge to provide 
extras for its members. The 
first of these Chaplain Tramp 
classics will be Easy Street, to 
be shown at the Oct. 26 presen
tation of Phantom of the Opera. 
The vagabond provides the first 
laughs in the Jan. 4 program 
that features The Last Laugh. 
The Immigrant encounters the 
Freaks on Feb. 15.
These and other special addi
tions to the film schedule are 
tile product of the newly formed 
Film Arts Board. In previous 
years, only one man was re
sponsible for running the Film 
Arts organization, but now 
things will be running smoother 
with a group headed by Presi
dent Dan Kamin. Board mem
bers include Ralph Carideo, Sam 
Platt, John Michael Tebelak, 
Preston Jones and Richard Al
ieva.
Admission to Film Arts is by 
subscription only. Tickets for
VIP...
(Continued From Page 1)
ca also arrange to study abroad 
at one of the universities, re
ceiving from prtial to full creditation. Any interested students 
or faculty should contact. Vol
unteers for Israel Programs, 
6328 Forbes Ae., 421-2743, or see 
Rabbi Rubenstein.
Photos in this Issue of the 
TARTAN by 
Laura Seidler, John Tate 
and Terri/ Siskind
Performing Artists 
Open First Festival
? PITTSBURGH PERFOMING 
ARTISTS
The performing arts festival, 
being held this week at the 
Open Stage Theatre, 233 Shi
loh St., Mt. Washington, pre
sents:
Wed: Modern dance, ballet, 
and mime.
Thurs: Pittsburgh Film
Makers night.
Fri: A Musical Memorabilia 
includes songs and sketches 
which have proved to be aud
ience favorites over the past 
seven years.
Sat: Duquesne Tamburitzans 
Sun: Pittsburgh Youth Sym
phony.
? PITTSBURGH 
FREE UNIVERSITY
The Draft in a Free Society: 
October 25  Selective Serv
ice, Deferred Status, and SoManipulation by the Govern
ment. Tom Heyden, Boston. 
November 1The Draft and 
Civil Liberties (Church and 
State Implications of the 
present law) Tom Kerr of 
Pittsburgh American Civil 
Liberties Union.
8:00 pm, United Oakland Min
istry, 5th and Bellefield Aves.
both semesters are still avail
able this Thursday at the door, 
P.H. 100 $3.50 per semester, $6.00 
for both semesters.
? MUSIC GUILD
Frederic Hand, Classical gui
tarist, will be presented Tues
day, Oct. 31. 1967 at 8:30 pm. 
Student tickets are $1.10.
? YM AND WHA
The Issac Seder Educational 
Center on Bellefield Ave., 
opens its 42nd year of infor
mal adult education the week 
of Oct. 30.
For further information on 
registration and catalogs on 
the current offerings are 
available through the office, 
or call 621-6500.
? MUSICAL SOCIETY
Robert Casadesus, opens the 
annual YM and YHA Musi
cal Society Series Wednesday 
November 1, at 8:40 in the 
Morris Kaufmann Auditori
um of the YM and WHA on 
Bellefield.
? CHATHAM COLLEGE 
DRAMA
Le Malentendau (the Misun
derstanding) by Albert Cam
us will be presented by the 
Chatham College Drama De
partment Friday, Oct. 27, 
through Saturday, Nov. 4. No 
performance is scheduled Oct. 
29 or Nov. 2.
The play begins at 8:45 pm 
in the Drama Room of Braren Hall and is open to the 
public.
Van Dexters Commedia dell 
Arte players will present a 
two-act comedy of acting, 
mime and music, titled The 
Three Cuckholds, at 8:30 pm 
in the Chatham College Cha
pel, Thursday, Nov. 2. The 
performance is free and open 
to the public.
? TOP OF THE WALL 
Friday  Halloween is over 
for Black and White, conduct
ed by Don Prange, Pastor of 
Holy Cross Lutheran Church 
and William Hayden, local 
civil rights leader. Begins at 
9:30.
Saturday  October 28. Poe
try reading by Dona Silver 
and Paul Sampsell An at
tempt at bouncing posts of 
several centuries against each 
other. 9:30 pm. Crumbling 
Wall, 4515 Forbes Ave.
? THE WAR GAME
A television documentary 
which will be never be tele
vised is playing this week. 
The documentaryThe War 
Gamewas made by the Brit
ish director Peter Watkins 
for the BBC to show the re
sults of a nuclear attack on 
Britain. After it was finished 
the BBC, under pressure from 
the government, banned it 
for television showing any
where in the world as too 
horrifying. It can be shown 
in movie theaters, and its 
playing until Oct. 31 at the 
Strand Theater in Oakland.
? JAZZ WORKSHOP
The Walt Harper Workshop 
will present the exciting 
sound of the CanonbalT Adderly Quintet, Sunday Oct. 29
at the Walt Harper Jazz Work
shop, 111 Blvd. of the Allies,
Tickets are $2.50, $3.50, and$5.00.
Between Classes or at Study Break8FberrY!F8 4
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
**?S ie1hF -c4uym
1eyrl 8g ue1rY em 4ruACADEMY AWARD WINNER
It may be the most important film ever made"
Kenneth Tynan, London Observer
STRAND
e-K,-uk OAKLAND681-100NOW SHOWING
\. ....
i %
Nine times out of ten University men wear a vested suit. 
And out suits are strictly in line with this thinking. Stop in 
and see our handsome array of Stripes, Solids, Plaids and 
Herringbones- All natural shoulder, and all vested, of 
course! Priced from $75.00 - 90.00.
Sizes 36-44 
Regular - Long - Short
5842 FORBES AVENUE 
Squirrel Hill 
421-5710
5406 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
683-8872

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 25. 1967
EDITORIAL
How Not To Protest
The group marched slowly toward the gathering place. In front was the symbol. They stopped, holding the symbol aloft, and the speakers addressed the gathering. A clergyman stepped forward and spoke. An unknown student came forward and read, rather mechanically, a satement which someone had written. Another student, known to those who gathered in curiosity, read yet another prepared statement of support for the group from sympathetic organizations in other countries.A violent objector rushed up and grabbed at the symbol. Part of the crowd grew ugly  surged  began chanting, police moved inthe dissident groups were separated. A dissenter managed to grab the microphone. He He spoke.Calm somewhat restored, the group moved on, leaving gaggles of curious residents and paper scraps in their wake. I'j mattered not how they got to the protesting place, or whether they had permission or not. They had achieved their objectives.The group described above could be one of many throughout history. However, the events which took place happened here on Monday, October 16. The group termed itsslf the peace torch marathon. We feel that the group, in conducting its protest here as id did, hurt, rather than helped, the protest against the war in Vietnam, as well as the tradition of civil disobedience.In gaining access to the campus, the group received the permission of the university. A student, as the regulations of our university specify, asked the Coordinator of Student Activities for permission to have an anti-war demonstration staged at C-MU. He was granted that per
mission.Our studenc then went out and invited the peace torch marathon to make a stop here. He did not tell Mr. McFeey of further details of the march. Although the organization knew it would be able to gain access to our campus, it did not contact the university. The first notice the university had of the peace torchs planned route was the Pittsburgh Press and Post-Gazette article in the October 10 issue.At that time, the student host was called as well as the Pittsburgh coordinators, concerning responsibility for possible damages. Nobody would accept responsibility for damage to the campus, persons in the rally, or surrouinding areas, except the student. As the host, the student was directly liable. The national coordinators and local coordinators of the peace mobilization could not have been less interested in Fir student plight. They felt that while they were on our grounds they had no responsibility to police their followers, either regarding relations among the group or relations wfith university property.During the demonstration it was Mr. Huff of the YMCA, Dean Swank, and non-affiliated students who kept the peace when, as was reported last week, a soldier in the crowd rushed to grab the torch. The coordinators and theii immediate friends were anything but helpful.
SIA r.LS.E
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor.....................................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manger.................................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor ............................................SAZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editor...................................................ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor ........................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ..........................Rich Steffens
Sports Editor ...............................................Jim Janke
Assistant Sports Editor .................Ralph Swoboda
Photography Editor ...............................Laura Seidler
National Advertising Manager........Fredda Simon
Layout Editor ......................................Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor ...................Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor .....,.........................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager..................Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers..................................Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor .........................................E. W. Seley
Desk Staff: Linda Cameron, Susan Gordon, Carol Krueger, 
Betsy Payne, Barbara Schneiderman.
News Staff: Ricki Borden, Jenifer Digby, Beverly Spiro, 
Rachel Schwartz.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Ed Dolbow, Ron Finnen, Harry Herre, 
Alan Letzt, Tony Rees, Jeff Ruben, George Smith, Mike 
Smolens.
Advertising Staff: Carroll Swarmer, John Knechtel, Danny 
Pickholtz.
Business Staff: Hilary Kurzweil, Jayne Levin, Carol Le Bow 
Laura Warren, Tom McGuire.
Layout Staff: Liz Yellin.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Virginia McKelvey, 
Lois Bender, Donne Cline, Harriet Nadel.
They did not aid in quieting the crowd or separating the opposing factions. Instead, one of the people who had marched in the forefront as it approached the campus ag- grevated the situation by screaming and shoving. Other marchers joined him.As for the handling of the microphone, Msgr. Rice was heard to say to a student who requested the right to state an opposing view, This is our hall. If you want to speak, rent your own hall.' We should like to point out that first, it was not their hall, it belonged to the student body of Car- negie-Mellon University, and second, even though they had gained access through deceit, the administration of this institution was affording the group the opportunity to express their views.Because of that, the peace marathon should have freely afforded, beyond lip service, the opportunity for dissenters tc speak. As it was, the organizers of the marathon djd no' allcw for any C-MU opinions-pro or con. One of our boys did, however, get to be master of ceremonies.The facts surrounding our example of civil disobedience point to several flaws in our university community and our society as a whole. We have become so fractionized, so violently opinionated, that a group without a leader, without responsibility,but with a symbol and representing the cause, can walk over the property and civil rights of the opposition, and nobody is in a position to stop the group because the group represents the cause.We feel that a valid protest on our campus would be one in which our stuydent body participated on our cair}f)us. If outside groups were invited, the students participating should inform the administration.If our students choose to demonstrate, even with outside aid, that s one matter. If all groups concerned realize that there are others rights to be considered, and recognize that they should attempt to produce a meaningful, valid protest rather than a symbol oriented, melee, then we would have a. demonstration in line with the traditions of civil disobedience. However, if we are willing to submit ourselves to the control of a group whose leaders we do not know, and whose method of operation is shady, to say the least, then we are no better than the followers of the Nazis and the Bolsheviks.If the example we had here Monday was the best leadership the peace can produce, or was representative of the genera) leadership, then it is time for some searching among those who feel that protest is necessary. Who are beirg led, blinded by the cause, unmindful of the consequences, down a path which will cause the majority of citizens in this country to become afraid-first of Vietnam protesters, then of protesters in general. The mentality still exists which could produce another McCarthy era.As for our campus, the Tartan would like to see a more lively discussion of many issueshere including the war and civil libertiesBut we urge you to do the discussing. Do not allow symbols and unindentified groups to do your speaking for you. Do not allow your mind to become filled with slogans such as reproachful presence, overskill,other terms used by both government agencies and protest groups. Go behind those terms. Find out who is using thern and whyand whom he represents. Involve yourself.Read. Think. Discuss. Act.
Letters To Editor
Peace Demonstrators Considered Vandals
Editor, The Tartan:
We are students and/or em
ployees of C-MU and have been 
working at Seaife Hall this eve
ning of October 16, 1967. At 
10:00, a security guard locked 
all the doors of Scaife Hall. We 
called security and learned that 
a pcace demonstration was in 
progress at Skibo, and all cam
pus buildings were ordered lock
ed duiing this demonstration. 
the protection of the campus is 
rightly the concern of the secur
ity force, but since when have 
peace demonstrators become 
equated with thieves and van
dals.
The prejudice of the person 
or persons who ordered out the 
rnLitm for this demonstration 
is clearly evident. Peacenik - 
Vandal. If these persons are 
afraid of foreigners on campur;, of vandals in the night, or 
of insurrection and riots, then 
why even let the demonstration 
cccur at all. But they probably 
are not, since many other events 
(in particular, football games) 
also see foreigners on cam
pus, the buildings are not lock
ed then.
Thank you, Protectors of our 
esteemed campus, for letting
ii I
us know how much you trust 
"peace demonstrations.
Andrew Schwartz 
Stephen Walfish 
George Kavanagh 
Lynn Sterman
Uninvited Guests 
Still Invade Skibo
Editorial Staff, The Tartan:
The problem of non-college 
students invading our campus 
has recently been brought to the 
attention of Student Govern
ment. It has been reported and 
verified that this activity has 
reached such proportions that 
seme CMU students have be
gun avoiding their own Student 
Activities Center. I know from 
your last editorial that you ag
ree that this is a sorry state 
and a situation which requires 
immediate correction. At the 
October 17, 1967 session of Stu
dent Congress, a motion to ef
fect this correction was passed 
overwhelmingly.
The designated action consists 
of several phases, one of which 
includes this letter. It is most 
improbable that Skibo can be re
turned to the condition of a true 
Student Activities CeCnter with 
out the full cooperation of the 
students who use it. As was 
mentioned in your editorial, 
Skibo, by Administration policy, 
is open to faculty, students, 
staff and their invited guests. 
Unfortunately some of these 
invited guests are troublesome 
non-college students who are be
ing indirectly invited by the
Columnist Feels Opinions Censored
Editor, The Tartan:
The Epitome of Pedantry 
is not appearing this week as, ^ 
I would imagine the reader of 
letter has already surmized. This 
is the second occasion on which 
its author has been censored.
Th eeditorial board of this paper 
omitted this weeks column 
claiming that it would offend 
a certain group on campus and 
had as its point the desirability 
of a race riot.
The trouble with this paper 
is that is attempts to offend 
no one and in so doing, offends 
everyone. When it does become 
opinionated it is usually on some 
subject of great controversy 
such as fire hazards or on sub
jects of great pertinance such 
as hippies.
As far as trying to incite a 
riot is concerned, you will never 
be able to form your own opin
ions. I can only say that edu
cated people, such as a profes
sor or two (who know the modus-opperendi of satire) never 
had that thought cross their 
minds.
Some day, when God once 
again smiles on this place, there 
will be courageous and literate 
writing in the Tartan. There 
will be many colunms with 
many opinions, some disagree
ing with others. Till then well 
have to contetn ourselves with 
the moronic babblings of queen 
candidiates an dhigh school .in
vectives of peace reporters.
Most assuredly sincere,
Barry W. Cornet f
Maybe-if-we-ignore-them-t hey 
will-disappear philosophy.
The Senate has also contacted 
the Campus Security Police, 
asking their co-operation in 
eliminating this problem. We 
hope that the situation can be 
taken care of without the in
convenience for our students of | 
having their identification 
checked when they visit Skibo 
on weekends. If this does, how
ever, become necessary, Student 
Government again asks for the 
full co-operation of all CMU 
students.
Student Government is not 
hiding its head in the sand; we 
are facing and taking action on 
the problems of the students 
we represent. With the full sup
port of our fellow students, Ski
bo can once again serve the 
purpose of a true Student Ac
tivities Center.
Sincerely,
Gary Straus 
Student Congress
The TARTAN suggests that * all students carry the C-MU idendificatiun cards issued by the registrar.
We would like to commend 
the 1967 Homecoming Com
mittee for switching the foot
ball teams script so that 
C-MU won the game this 
time . . . and also thank them 
for Ray Charles, Gary Glenn, 
and Pat Oliver. They cared 
enough to send the very best.
The Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 25, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 5
STUDENT CONGRESS NOTES
The meeting was called to order at 4:43 pm by Vice-president 
Moore. A quorum was present.
Committee Reports:
^ 1. Food Service: The Tartan Grill is going to stay open after
11 on Sunday night for a two week trial basis. People are asked 
to be courteous enough to observe the policy of no pets in the 
snack bar.
2. Rules: In accordance with our constitution there are open
ings for freshmen in the following constituenciestwo women 
dorm members, five men dorm members, and two commuter.;. 
Petitions will be available for any freshman interested in run
ffdng for a Senate seat.
3. Finance: There will be a meeting Thursday, Oct. 26, at 
7 pm in Room 46, Skibo for all those interested in appropriations 
from Student Government for for 1968-69. This meeting is for 
all business managers. Copies are available for the 1967-68 budget 
for appropriations.
4. Publicity. Requested that all chairmen of the External 
Committees should get in touch with the Tartan staff before hand
$f any information! is needed for coverage of their activities.
Commencement Speaker Opinion Poll is continued at the in
formation desk in Skibo.
A reporter should be available to attend all Student meetings 
to act as a liaison between the Senate and the Tartan, and to 
provide a better bridge of communication between the Senate 
and the students.
^Jld Business: None.
New Business and Remarks:
1. The minutes of Oct. 3 should be corrected to read Spring 
Carnival instead of Homecoming under Committee reports.
2. Permanent utensils arc? not always in use in Morewood 
Cafeteria as was previously reported.
3. President Dale Peschel has proposed to send two delegates 
t-o the Association of Student Government Conference over Thanks
giving.
4. Will the committee chairmen pack up the list of interested 
people from Tom Moore.
A motion was passed for the General Campus Committee to 
recommended to Mr. Haines that the gym be open on Sundays.
5. A complaint was made concerning the inhabiting of our 
^Student Union by high school students, especially in weekends.
A motion was passed to send a letter to the editor of the Tartan 
informing the students of our course of action; to contact the 
Security Police and ask for their cooperation in keeping an eye 
out for high school students in Skibo, and also to send a letter 
to the principals of all the high schools in this area requesting 
that they ask their students not to use our facilities, perhaps 
through their student newspapers.
p Adjournment at 5:50 pm.
6. Special Senate meeting this Tuesday, Oct 24.
n keuec-u n
JANICE
OKiLD 
MIDNSGHT 
STRING 
QUARTET
O fluu THEATRE O
2 SHOWS SAT., NOV. 47:30 & 10 PM
> Tick*: $7.SO, S3 SO, 4 SO, SS 50. Now 1 sol* ot Gimbals. Horne , I 
Pitt Student Union and all Nat zonal Record Mort. Mail order, write: 
Lenny Litmon, P. 0. Box S32. Pittiburoh, Pa. I SIM
Interview With 
Ravi Shankar
In a relatively short time, 
Ravi Shankar with an able as
sist from the Beatties has be
come the object of a large and 
growing cult
Mr. Shankar has played in 
small concert on the Chatham 
Pittsburgh once before are a 
campus  his followers than 
could probably, number themselvers among an esoteric elite. 
Mr. Shankar returned to Pitts
burgh this past weekend, where, 
under the sponsorship of Hal 
Friedman and the Music Guild 
of Pittsburgh he gave a concert 
are the Syria Mosque. Earlier 
on the day of the concert we 
wer invited to a press conference 
with Mr. Shankar. During the 
conference, Mr. Shankar mini
mized his effect on rock groups 
such as The Cyrkle, The Roll
ing Stones, and The Beatties, 
for he said that they essentially 
missuse Indian music by westerizing it and adapting it principal
ly for its novel effect.
In India, however, the sitar 
is part of a long classical tra
dition where one must practice 
for years before achieving pro
ficiency. Ravi Shankars teacher, 
or Guru told him that one life
time is not sufficient to really 
master this music.
Basically, this Raga music is 
a complex musical system based 
on a single tone rhythm. The 
ragas, themselves, are the mel
odic patterns which the sitar 
player must study in his mast
ery of the craft. He must study 
them for or least seven or eight 
years. *
Mr. Shankar, a very warm
and sincere person talked about 
his own musical training.
He did not decide to become 
a musician until he was 18; then 
under the guidance of his guru 
Ustad Allaydin Khan, he subjecte dhimself to a rigourous 
discipline in which he practcied 
from 12-14 hours every day. Out
side of concerts, Shankar teaches 
at City College and has com
posed the scores for the filmed 
Th Apu Trilogy and Jonathan 
Millers controversial BBC film 
Alice in Wonderland.
Shankar talked about his work 
with Jazz musicians such as 
Bud Shank nd the late Johnny 
Coltrane, who tried to incor
porate elements of the raga into 
his own music.
Raga in a sense can be com
pared to Jazz in its formal 
looseness: like much Modem 
Jazz, Raga music is basically 
improvisational nd relies heavily 
on the artists exprssing his 
mood or feeling. It is much dif
ferent playing here than playing 
in India, Shankar said. When 
Shnkar performs in his own 
country there is a great deal of 
audience participation. For instnce, during the concert, Shan
kar and the accompnying tbla 
player frequently exchanged
glances, smiles, and signs of en
couragement to each other. In 
India, the audience frequently 
interrupts the performance by 
clapping when they are pleased 
with the performance.
Accompaning Shankar in his 
concerts are two drums rail 
Table, and a tamboura. The 
tmboura is a stringed instru
ment like the sitar, which pro
duces a hypnotic drome inten
ded to captivate the audience.
The Ragas in India, are 
meant to be played at certin 
times of the day; they are not 
intended purely for religious 
purooses, however, and ar a 
deep rooted Indian tradition, 
equivalent insome ways to West
ern Classical music.
Inperformance, Shank a begins 
by stating the Raga; after this 
there in great period of improvistation and then the drums 
enter. After this, thy improvise 
or exchange musical ideas, un
til at the end they reach a 
grand climax.
In concert that night, we found 
this music somewhat hard to 
adjust to; but after a while we 
were captivated by its lyrical 
subtlety. It was good to hear 
the music the way it should be 
played, by a real virtuoso.
Do you buy a shirt or a label?
You buy both. The shi/'t 
because of what it looks like. 
And the label because of 
what it means. A good label 
means the shirt is styled to 
last. That its tapered, pleated 
and rolled in the right places.
Like this King Cotton
Perma-lron shirt. 100% 
cotton that wont wrinkle. 
Labeled "Sanforized." With a 
softly flared button-down 
collar, shoulder-to-waist 
taper and box pleat. You can 
get it in stripes, solids,
checks or plaids. $6.00 for 
short sleeves, $7.00 for long.
But dont buy a sport 
shirt just for the plaid, 
color, stripe or check. Get a 
good sport shirt with a jgood 
label. Our sports label is the 
best. Look for Arrow.

---------------------------------------------------

Page  - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 25, 1967
JADE
EASf
discover it now 
in
sculptured
bamboo
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Spray Deodorant, $2.50 
Spray Talc, $2.50
FW-uKg uvYvFHTA kU2SLUaOSHL
-2 .E .TSALE.SA mL.RL.EsAg 
SLy 3.oA l.2S be1-, HL 
3.oA l.2S Ve,klu ,4hl
WALT HARPER 
JAZZ WORKSHOP 
presents 
Cannonball Adderiy
Sunday, October 29 
6-10 at'the Pittsburgh Hilton 
Ballroom.  Tickets $2.50, 
$3.50, $5.00 At Hornes, Lo
makins, Pitt Student Union. 
Group reservations for JAZZ 
WORKSHOP: 111 Blvd. of 
Allies, Pgh., Pa. 15322.
What kind do you smoke?
heuZMK TOBACCO
B
Whatever kind you smoke, 
you owe it to yourself to 
try MONZA Pipe Tobacco.
Your favorite pipe will give 
you more pleasure when 
you choose this imported 
blend of the world's fine 
tobaccos.move up to
THE IMPORTED PIPE TOBACCO 
ONLY 301 A POUCH
For a COMPLIMENTARY pouch of MONZA PIPE TOBACCO, 
send 10* to cover postage and handling with this 
coupon to:
ROMICKS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
P. O. Box 3033, Dept. 266 NO. HOLLYWOOD, CALIF. 91606
(Please Print)
MONZA
Name
Street
State
City
Zip
 I
NavalResearchLaboratory
WASHINGTON, D.C.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
The Navys Corporate LaboratoryNRL is engaged in research embracing practically all branches of physical and engineering science and covering the entire range from basic investigation of fundamental problems to applied and developmental research.
The Laboratory has a continuing need for physicists, chemists, metallurgists, mathematicians, oceanographers, and engineers (electronic, electrical, mechanical, chemical and civil). Appointees, who must be U.S. citizens, receive the full benefits of the career Civil Service.
Candidates for bachelors, masters and doctors degrees in any of the above fields are invited to schedule interviews with the NRL representative who will be in the
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
placement office on
NOVEMBER 7,1967
Those who for any reason are unable to schedule interviews may write to The Director (Code 1818), Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D. C. 20390.
-mSAL yHOvA tAS SIA sI.TTAERAn
If you're the kind of Civil Engineer 
we're looking for, you'll start search
ing for another one to conquer. Here 
at the Pennsylvania Department of 
Highways, we offer a host of chal
lenges to the right man. But, to be 
that right man, you've got to be pretty 
special.
You see, we search out and encour
age Civil Engineers whom we consider 
capable of grasping a challenge; 
skilled men, comparable to the great 
Engineers who are "building Tomor
row today in Pennsylvania.' If you 
can measure up to the standards 
necessary to fulfill Pennsylvania's $10 
billion plan to lead the nation in high
ways, we'd consider it a challenge just 
to get to know you.
A Pennsylvania Department of 
Highways Career Representative will 
visit your campus. To arrange for an 
appointment, or if you desire 
additional infor
mation, contact the 
placement office.
INTERVIEW DATE:
Pennsylvania 
Department of Highways
Bureau of Personnel 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17102
ZJPWWm
bL.mS -vAEOA .S Y.tTAS FSLAASg fUSS2aOLL/Ig f.v ?p0?C
STUDENT RATES - $1.50. Sat. $2.50
Vle1Vl hv Veyu
IN OUR CRAFT AVENUE THEATRE 
TonightSaturday, Sunday Curtain 8:30 p.m. Sun. 7:30 p.m.
If
AND FOR EXPLOSIVE 
CONTRAST
AFTER THE FALL
by ARTHUR MILLER
'4Relentlessly Exciting . . . Ann Yottens, Pittsburgh Point.
CALL 621-4445 FOR RESERVATIONS

---------------------------------------------------

WATCH OUT
<?
FOR THE
<
OTHER GUY
<?
DriveDefensively!
Just being in the right isnt 
enough. Nearly half the 
drivers in fatal collisions are 
in the right. Drive defen
sivelyas if your life de
pended on it. (It does.)
fOaTU2IAo SH 2.vA TUvA2 UE sHHAL.SUHE MUSI 
rIA -ovALSU2UER bHOEsUT .Eo SIA u.SUHE.T F.mASy bHOEsUTv
MATHEMATICIANS
PHYSICISTS
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS
LINCOLN LABORATORY
h a s o p/e nings for a 
limited number of en
gineers, physicists and 
mathematicians.
LINCOLN LABORATORY, 
a research center of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, is engaged in 
research and develop
ment in advanced elec
tronics, with emphasis on 
applications to national 
defense and space 
exploration.
A LABORATORY REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL INTERVIEW APPLICANTS
October 27
CONSULT THE CAMPUS PLACEMENT 
OFFICE IN ADVANCE
LINCOLN LABORATORY
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
eX 0?  ,lX4uVreu 
h-FF-bYyFlrrF :0?7C
Soup n  Sandwich 
Shoppe, *Jfnc.
OPEN 24 HOURS
EXCEPT SUNDAY MIDNIGHT TO MONDAY 7 A.M.
CORNER OF CRAIG AND FORBES
Wednesday, October 25, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 7
WINNER OF 6 ACADEMY AWARDS INCLUDING'lFr f4bry1l ei rYl Yl-1J
COLUMBIA hcturk FRED Z?N NEMAN IN'SA MAN FOR ALL SEASONS
From the pUy by ROBERT BOLT * IHTOU**
Student Admission$1.50
1lFl1clk Fl-rF -c-4,-,l 
ueW -r eX8eii4bl
SYRIA MOSQUEFRI., NOV. 10 - SAT., NOV. 11-8:30 P.M.
r4bKlrF^ WCW4Wpv uHM HE 2.TA .S fUSS FSOoAES yEUHEg K.Omt.EE!*g VUt8 
aAT!2g YHLEA!2v h.UT HLoAL2 HEA MAAB HETyv WLUSA .Eo t.BA sIAsB .y.aTA SH 
,AEEy ,USt.Eg p800 W.TEOS FSvg fUSS2aOLRI C0g f.vg AEsTH2UER 2ATm8.ooLA22Ao 
2S.tAo AEvATHA .Eo ALmHLt.EsA oA2ULAov
HAHHMHHHHHHHHH2AAHHHHHHAHHHHHs
Astronomers,salesmen, designers, programmers, chemists, psychologists,writers, sociologists,economists, metallurgists, artists, accountants,physicists, mathematicians, etc,etc,etc.
Thats what General Electric is made of.
General Electric is made up of a lot more than just engineers because it takes a lot more than engineers to tackle the problems we deal with. Like helping to unsnarl traffic jams in our cities, fighting air pollution or finding new ways to provide power for underdeveloped nations. It takes sociologists, meteorologists, astronomers, writers in fact, it takes people with just about every kind of training. But, more than any of this, it takes people
with nerve, gumption, intellectual curiosity  people who care about what happens to the world. So its not only your major were interested in. Its you. Why not see our interviewer when he comes to campus and find out whether youre the kind of person General Electric is made of.
An equal opportunity employer
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 25, 1967
COLLEGE MEN WANTED
To earn $20.00 per week for four hours work. Must be 21 
years old; must be within 12 months of graduation. Promo
tionno selling involved. Call Wednesday, October 25, 6:00- 
8:00 p.m. and Friday, October 27, 10:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. for. 
information. Jerry Janicki at 683-6464.
Recently over heard in War
ner Hall1Have you seen the new 
C-MU Emblem?
2Yes, it looks like a pine
apple.
1Thats because of all the 
money thats been Doled 
out!
JOOOOD000400DODOOOWODOOOODOOOOOO
OPEN YOUR MINDS
THE NEW PITTSBURGH FILM GROUP
IS HERE!
Every Saturday Night at 8:00 and 10:00 p-mU.O.M. Center, 4401 Fifth Ave., corner of Belief eld Ave.
in Oakland 
PROGRAM NUMBER 1: OCTOBER 28th
Gregory Markopoulos: "TWICE A MAN"
Prix Lambert, Third Int. Experimental Film Competition, <Knokke-Le Zoute, 
Belgium; 1964.
Silver Award, Chicago Int. Film Festival, as the film which most advanced 
film-making as an art and craft; 1965.
In color, music by Tchaikowskv.
A shock of recognition will join you to the spcciul cinema of grief and marvel 
that Markopoulos has created. Charles Boultenhouse, film-maker.
. . one of the rare films which, beyond the MAGIE PROPRE of the cinema, 
discover structures and elements of language equal to other languages of 
art.'  Rene Micha. Les Temps Modernes.
James Whitney: "LAPIS."
Overwhelmingly beautiful abstractions flow to the sounds of an Indian raga. 
In color.
Bill Flynn: 'THE ENTREPRENEURS "
An amazingly professionally done film by a 17-year-old Pittsburgher. Full of 
laughs. Hopeful winner in the Kodak Film Awards competition.
Tom Baum: "KANSAS CITY GORK."
This film is as ridiculous as it sounds.
Admission $1.10Membership Card: 50$
WIy 2IHOTo yHO 
sHEmUoA UE . ROy 
yHOvA EAvAL tAS 
aAmHLAn
Because the guy were talking 
about is a college recruiter from 
Alcoa. And the only way to play it 
is honestly.
Hell be on campus in a couple of 
days. And heras what we recom
mend you do at the interview. 
First, lay your cards on the table. 
Tell him what kind of work would 
really turn you on.
Then, sit back and listen while he 
explains how your plans figure 
into Alcoas plans. (Youll be 
surprised how versatile 
Aluminum Company of America 
can be.)
So make it a point to meet Alcoas 
recruiter. Hes a confidence man 
you can really trust.
Interview date:
Wednesday, November 1
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
A Plans for Progress Company
Change for the better 
with AlcoaC3 ALCOA
AWe*J\eVc
xese'
w'0<'Ta\e0^e<'a'
nN^. \(Con -Thesa \^eSt c
i
se^'e
AO
V *i
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOO
Why Is It Important To You 
To Join The Right Company 
After Graduation?
Consider the advantage of joining 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION
66The Discovery Company9
INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 
Friday, October 27, 1967
Years ago it was a common practice to take the first opportunity that came along after graduation just to get a start with one firm with the idea of jumping to another as time went along  BUT IN TODAYS DYNAMIC ECONOMY it is to your advantage to associate your self immediately with a firm with diversity and interest in your career development. UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION-Materials Systems Division of Kokomo, Indiana, offers you just the right starting opportunity with career growth in the direction you want to go!
Make your career start mth Union Carbides midwest division which produces special alloys for space-age industriesaircraft, chemical, petroleum, automotive and electronics firms. Enjoy complete research facilities and equipment to aid your special talents and skills. Plant location: Kokomo, Indianaeasy access to Indianapolis and Chicago. Good working conditions Benefits include educational refund, savings plan, pension, life and hospitalization insurance.We are seeking B.S. or M.S. Graduate Students as:
fa METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS 
fa MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
fa INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS 
fa ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
fa INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
in the areas of Design, Manufacturing, Research and Development, Process and Product Development and Sales Engineering.
Please refer to our brochure located in your Campus 
Placement Bureau. Discuss your future with our rep
resentative and call at your Placement Bureau now 
to arrange an appointment.
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION 
Materials Systems Division 
Kokomo, Indiana 46901
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Pagt 9 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 25, 1967
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER POLL
The Student Government poll for commencement speaker 
possibilities will continue until the middle of November. Previous
ly held in conjunction with the A Phi O Homecoming Queen elec
tions, the poll will now be taken at the Skibo lobby information 
desk and the desk in the lobby of Morewood Gardens. The poll is 
open to all seniors and other interested members of the CamegicMellon community.
STUDENT SENATE
There will be a Student Senate Rules Committee meeting at 
7 pm Monday, Oct. 30, in room 54 Skibo. Issues concerning Stu 
dent Senate elections and the filling of vacant Senate seats will 
be discussed. Anyone who is interested is welcome.
FRESHMEN STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
Any freshman interested in running for Student Senate should 
pick up petitions and further details at Skibo 103 or from Don 
Baer, Box 562, Campus Mail, after Monday, Oot. 30.
HILLEL
Friday Night Services, Oot. 27, Skibo Chapel, 7 pm. Coffee 
Hour Monday, Oct. 29, 8 pm, room 40, Skibo. Israeli Dancing Sun
day, Oct. 29, 8 pm, Wherret Room, Skibo. Bridge classes and tour
nament Sunday, Oct. 29, 1-5 pm, Wherret Room, Skibo.
VISTA
Members of VTSTA will conduct an assembly at 11:30 am on 
Oot. 31 in the Wherret Room, Skibo.
MARINE OFFICER SELECTION
Captain Frank W. Tuckwiller of the Marine Officer Selection 
Office in Pittsburgh will be on campus on Oct. 30 to interview 
and test students who wish to receive a commission in the United 
States Marine Corps. Interviews and testing will be conducted in 
the hallway of Baker Hall.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
Applications for the Union Carbide Corporation Nuclear Di
vision Summer Employment Program are now available from 
the Bureau of Placements and must be submitted prior to Jan. i.
The program is for .students who show unusual aptitude and 
promise and will have completed at least two years of a four 
yeer curriculum leading to a degree in biology, chemistry, engi
neering, mathematics, physics, or statistics, or graduate students 
working toward advanced degrees in the same areas. 
SCANDINAVIAN SEMINAR
The Scandinavian Seminar is now accepting applications for 
its study abroad program in Denmark, Finland, Norway or Swed
en for the academic year 1968-69. The focus of the Seminars pro
gram is the students independent study Project in his special 
field of interest.
The student in the Seminar program stays two to eight 
weeks with a family in the Scandinavian country of his choice. 
For the major part of the year he lives and studies among Scan
dinavians at a Folk High Schoola residential school for young 
adults. For complete information, write to Scandinavian Seminar, 
140 West 57th St., New York, N. Y. 10019.
IN AND 
AROUND
The first performing arts fes
tival in Pittsburghs history will 
open Monday evening, Oct. 23, 
at the Open Stage Theatre, 233 
Shiloh St., Mt. Washington.
The festival, which will last, 
seven days, is bringing together 
for the first time leading figures 
in the Pittsburgh performing 
arts community and will pre
sent a wide spectrum of per
forming arts activity. It is be
ing sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Performing Artists Foundation. 
All performances begin at 8:30 
p.m.
An evening with Paul Drap
er will launch the festival 
on Monday. Mr. Draper is rec
ognized as one of the leading 
tap dancers of our time and 
this will mark his first public 
appearance in Pittsburgh. Mr. 
Draper is this years Andrew 
Mellon professor with the Dra
ma Department here at C-MU.
Tuesday, October 24 and 
Thursday, October 26 are Pitts
burgh film makers nights. The 
Latent Image is being repre
sented by Time President, and 
Pennsylvania and View of the 
Sky produced by WQED for 
NASA will also be shown.
Modern dance, ballet, and 
mime will be presented on Wed
nesday, Oct. 25. Jeanne Beaman 
has choreographed Two Com
puter Dances and a drama of
Yeats At the Hawks Well. The 
Ballet Classique of the Labora
tory of Music at Chatham Col
lege will present Suite de Danse, 
choreographed by Audrey Tr<v 
janowski and Jewel Walker will 
do mime concert.
On Friday, Oct. 27, Don Brockett, Bob McCully, Joe Negri and 
company are joining forces 
once again in a review entitled 
A Musical Memorabilia which 
will include songs and sketches 
which have proved to be audi
ence favorites over the past sev
en years. The internationally ac
claimed Duquesne Tamburitzans 
will present their colorful new 
program on Saturday, Oct. 28.
Sunday, Oct. 29, will complete 
the festival with a performance 
of the Pittsburgh Youth Sym
phony conducted by Phillip Spur
geon. This will be the Youth 
Symphony's first public per
formance since its overwhelm
ing success at Expo 67 in Sep
tember. Mr. Spurgeon will con
duct a program of selections 
from Borodin, Dvorak, Strauss, 
Hansen, and Tchaikowsky. A 
tribute to Carl Sandburg will be 
made with the presentation of 
Coplands Lincoln Portrait.
College students can attend 
individual performances for a 
donation of $1.25, with the ex
ception of the film programs, 
where the donation is 65c.
Whats Doing 
on Campus
FLORENCE
An Italian archivist Roberto 
Abbondanza will discuss the 
condition of flood-ravaged 
libraries and archives in Flor
ence, Italy, in his talk at 4 
pm in room 210, Fine Arts, 
Wednesday, Oct. 25.
?MIME TROUPE
The San Francisco Mime 
Troupe, in their first Pitts
burgh appearance, will per
form their adaptation of 
LAmant Militaire, in the 
commedia dellarte tradition.
The Mime Troupe is in route 
to an European tour, and will 
perform their biting anti-war 
satire for two days only 
Sunday October 29, and Mon
day, October 30, at 8 pm Ski
bo Ballroom. Tickets are $1.50 
and $2.00.
CALLIGRAPHY
Arnold Bank presents the 
first of a projected series of 
exhibits by members of the 
faculty of the College of Fine 
Arts, Fourth Floor, Hunt Li
brary, through November 12.
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
CONCERT SERIES
October 25  Hilda Jones, 
harpsichordist Carnegie Lect
ure Hall, 8:30 pm.
CEILIDH*
Frank George, fiddle and ban
jo, Aunt Jenny Wilson, vo
cal and banjo, and Russell 
Fluhearty, hammered dulci
mer, will be presented Satur
day, October 28, 8:30 pm, Car
negie Lecture Hall. Student 
Tickets, $2.00, may be pur
chased at Information Desk, 
Skibo.
^ Thursday Luncheon Forum
Steel and Pittsburghs Fu
ture, Thursday, Oct. 26, with 
Mr. Hiram Milton, president, 
Regional Industrial Develop
ment Corporation.
Meet in Highlander Room at 
noon-programs at 12:30, ad
journ by 1:20.
?BUHL LECTURES
Dr. Sam B. Freiman will be 
guest speaker at the Buhl 
lectures in the Theoretical 
Physics in Doherty Hall, Oc
tober 25, and 26 at 4:30 pm.
? UNDERGROUND FILMS
Robert Nelson will present 
the first East Coast showing 
of four of his new films: 
The Great Blondino, Superspread, Auful Backlash, and 
and Hot Leatherette. Included 
in the program will be Nel
sons O Dem Watermelons. 
The film programlecture is 
at 8:00 pm. Tickets are 75c.
? SATURDAY NIGHT MOVIES
The Innocents and Captain 
Video will be shown Skibo 
Ballroom, 8:00 pm, October 
28.
Original 
Hot Dog Shoppe
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dogs Sold
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To AJI Dorms from 9 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 
Minimum Order $2.00 
3901 FORBES AVE.
621-1185  Phones  621-7388  Phones  683-9820
In the splendor of 70 mm. wide screen and fiill stereophonic sound!
STARRING
Winner 
of Ten 
Academy 
AwardsiCLARK GABLE VIVIEN LEIGH LESLIE HOWARD OLMAdeHAMLLAND
- Fl4Zu4bK 4url1u-r4eu-, f4bry1l 8 c4bre1 i,lh4uV 8ttMH 8 hlr1e!Ve,eWYu h-Yl1 
4u 7: tt W4kl Fb1llu Frl1lefYeu4b Feyue hlr1ebe4e1 
PREMIERE WED., OCT. 25, 8 P.M.
PRESENTED BY WJAS RADIO
BENEFIT PRESBYTERIAN UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL 
(FOR PREMIERE TICKETS CALL 682-8100 EXT. 412)
1lFl1clk Fl-rF ueW 
eX8eii4bl e1 Y h-4,
WARNER
THEATRE 
Phone 471-7400 
For Thootro Party and Group Solo coil PbyRi* Cotton at 471 -7402
I WARNER THEATRE 336 Stfc Avo.. Pittburgh. Pa. 15222 Price* and MofwomwTo Included. HD. (Aon. *ru THwn.) Orcti. ft Logo $2.50 Rol. $2.00 SI .75 (Fri., tat , Sun ft Hol.) Orch ft loe S3 00 Rat. $2 50 $2 00 I MATS. (Wadnotdoy) Orch. A I090 $2.00 Rol. $1.75 $1.50 I (Sat., Sun A Hol.) Orch & Lo $2.50 Rol. $2.00 $1 75IVES.  P.M. (SUN. 7:30 P.M.) MATS 2 PM.I Send Chock i or Money Ordon Payable to Wo
 NAME..........................................I ADDRESS ......................................I CITY......................STATE..I NO. OF SEATS..........AT $ MATINEE Q EVENING ?t DATE REQUESTED ...............ALT. DATE
ZIP CODE. TOTAL $ .
Tickets available at Gimbels, Mellon Sq.-, Hornes, Gateway Center; Kaufmann's, 
Downtown; all Pittsburgh National Bank Offices; Sears, Roebuck Stores, National 
Record Marts-, or any Stanley Warner Theatre.
National Lead
will be
ON CAMPUS
Monday, October 30, 1967
Whether your interest is in Research 
and Development, Technical Production, 
Industrial Sales,Technical Service, or 
Accounting, it will pay you to talk with 
the man from National Lead.
With over 200 product lines made by 
50 different divisions, affiliates and sub
sidiaries, National Lead is one of the 
worlds most diversified organizations.
If you are career-minded we may have 
the spot for you. Remember...
National Lead Company
Monday, October 30, 1967
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 1967
TARTAN
j. ianlce, Editor 
r. swoboda, Assoc Ed.
SPORTS EVENTS ON CAMPUS THIS WEEK:
WednesdayCross-Country Meet against Indiana University, 4 
pm, Schenley Park.
AH WeekIM Football playoffs, 4:30 pm and 6 pm, IM Field. 
IM Co-rec Volleyball, 7 pm and 8 pm, Gymnasium.
IM Review
TOUCH FOOTBALL
ATO demolished DU 30-3 and 
GSIA defeated BSR. held off a 
rally by the TDP "J defensive 
unit in a 20-15 victory.
Standings:W L
ATO5 0
GSIA5 0
DU3 3
BSR2 3
SAE B2 4
TDP J1 4
Berets1 5
Browns League
The EJs, slowed down by in
juries to key players, managed 
to edge out the Met Knights 16- 
13 and keep their perfect record 
intact and PKA defeated TDP. 
The EJ'sPKA game will de
termine the top two positions in 
the standings. In a tight defen
sive battle, PKT Gold lost to 
DTD by a score of 36-34.
Standings:WL
EJs50
PKA50
Met Knights22
ATO B23
TDP23
DTD14
PKT Gold05
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
The top teams in each league 
will clash in playoff games 
every day this week at 4:30 on 
the I.M. fields. Everyone is in
vited to attend these exciting 
games as ATO tries to defend 
its league title.
Co-Rec Vollyball, which start
ed last week, saw the following 
action:
Set League
SAE E defeated TX11-15,15- 
13, 15-13 but then lost to favored 
SAE A. EJs A won twice, 
defeating BTP B 16-14, 15-8, 
and SN A 15-11, 15-9.
Serve League
Algorithms B won over 
PKT Gold 15-13, 10-15, 15-11 but 
then lost to first ranked BTP 
A by a score of 15-6, 9-15, 15-7. 
In other action, ATO B lost 
to SAE B 15-6, 7-15, 15-9 and 
then defeated SN B 15-4, 15-13. 
Spike League
SAE  defeated BSR 15-6, 
10-15, 15-5 while EJs B won 
over SN C 15-13, 15-8.
Pass League
SN Pacers lost to SAE C 
15-12, 15-6, TDP B defeated 
SAE F 15-7, 15-9.
TennisWith 12 matches yet 
to be played the standings are:
Colts League
In what seemed to be a crucial 
game against the Old Men, BTP 
railed to a -victory. BTP won 
the toss but a cornerback for 
the Old Men picked off a pass 
on the first play from scrim
mage and ran it in for a touch
down. BTP quarterback Zabetakis returned a punt 40 yards 
for one touchdown and hit ends 
Reynouard and Barben for two 
more while BTP contained the 
Old Mens offense for the en
tire game .
(Continued on Page 11)
Plaid League
EJs B
DU
BTP
SN A
ATO
PKT
W
3
4 
2' 
0 
0 
0
L
0
1
2
1
2
3
Tartan League
W L
E. J. Frosh 4 0
DTD 0 1
SAE 0 2
SN B 0 2
TARTANS WHIP F&M: 
RECORD NOW 2-3
...by ED DOLBOW
Before a wildly excited crowd, the C-MU Tartans devastated Franklin and Marshall 35-16 and helped make Homecoming 1967 an event to be remembered. In Carnegie's first Homecoming victory in seven years, the Tartans dominated the ball on the ground and in the air, and, until late in the game, beautifully outplayed a weak F&M team.
The Tartans amassed an 
amazing 508 yards as Tom Hubka hit on 15 of 28 passes for 258 
yards and the running back 
corps of Ghetto, Batorski, Zak, 
and Healea rushed for 250 more.
Tech practically iced the decision 
in the first quarter when they 
scored three TDs to take a 21-0 
lead. After receiving the open
ing kick-off, Hubka mixed in 
two 13 yard passes to Ghetto 
and Tony Bugel with some 
strong running to move the ball 
to the F&M 30. From there he 
connected with Joe Cherney for 
the score. Gene Giamelli con
verted the extra point attempt 
to give the Tartans a quick 
7-0 lead.
The next score came at the 
end of a 70 yard march when 
Hubka scampered five yards 
around end. The highlight of the 
drive was a 50 yard pass play 
from Hubka to Cherney that 
put the ball on the 12 yard line.
S'
After taking over the ball on
18..................Wooster..................21
28................ Oberlin..................14
20..............Allegheny..................34
12............ Grove City ............30
35.............. F&M .............. 16
October 28at Thiel 
November 4at Westminster 
November 11W & J
their own 49 when F&M was 
forced to punt, the Tartans 
wasted no time scoring again. 
Ghetto sliced off-tackle from 
the two for the TD after Hub
ka had run 27 yards around 
end to set up the score. Giarnelli made it three for three in 
the extra point department to 
make the difference 21-0.
F&M did mount a threat in 
the second period but the drive 
was stopped on the four yard 
line when Terry Stalker and 
Dennis Weakland tackled quar
terback D. J. Korn on fourth 
down as he tried to circle right 
end. The half ended with the
Tartans on the two yard line 
of the Diplomats. Tom Hubka 
completed the 300th pass of his 
career for over 4000 yards dur
ing the first half and C-MU ac
cumulated 348 total yards to 
132 for F&M in the first half, 
dominating both the air and 
ground.
The second half opened with 
Cherney kicking off to Dumbar 
who returned the ball to the 30. 
After the Diplomats moved it 
to their 41, Greg Shaw recovered 
a fumble on the 33. Batorski ran 
to the 17 but a clipping penalty 
put the ball on the 32. Another 
penalty, this one on F&M, put 
the ball back on the 18, from 
which Hubka hit Bugel for the 
TD. Again Giamelli converted 
to make the score 28-0.
Bogel catches Hubka pass.
team was able to mount a 
threat. The quarter ended with 
the Tartans on top, 28-0.
In the fourth quarter, Hubka ^ 
was replaced by Kevin Wilson 
when he reinjured his left knee 
after being hit by a F&M tack
ier. The Diplomats finally 
scored on a 30 yard screen play 
and Korn raced around end for 
a two point conversion to make
the score 28-8. Wilson then en- * \ gineered a 64 yard drive most
ly on end sweeps with Healea 
carrying the ball for several 
substantial gains. Dave Thom
as scored the touchdown as he 
bolted off-tackle from the one. 
F&M made the final TD when
On the next series of downs 
Giamelli cracked Korns in the 
backfield to cause a fumble that 
was recovered by Stolker on 
the 35. The drive was stopped 
and Ghetto punted. The ball 
changed hands several times on 
punts and another fumble re 
covery by Stalker but neither
FROSH TENNIS
In the first frosh tennis 
tournament, Badel Wahedi de* 
feated Phil Myers in the fin6ls, *7-5, 6-0. Wahedi upset 
Paul Fisher in the semi-finals 
to reach the finals.
eInDo St uIddFsa
Mod Eye Wear
iL.tA .Eo ,At 1AT.sAtAES 
fLASsLUSUHE iUTTAo 
bHES.sS ,AE* bAESAL 
Fryklur 1-rlF
Room 505 
Medical Arts Bldg. 
3700 Fifth Avenue
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS j 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
b-hl1- lXbY-uVl
3711 FORBES AVENUE 
Phone: 683-2181 Student Discount on Most Items
"Healea races for first down."
Rich Thompson intercepted on 
the 21 to stop a Tartan threat 
and Korns connected with Ward 
for a 60 yard scoring play.
The Tartans played an all- &
around good game as the sta- 'I
tistics indicate. Hubka was pass
ing well after two off weeks 
and hopefully he will be ready 
to go this Saturday against 
Thiel.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 25, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 11
"Keefer receives award from alumni/
rlX-F4uFr1yhlurF
4url1c4lW4uV 
eu b-hfyF
esSv C: .Eo C?
Keefer Gets Award Daniel'S Still Hot
Win Fourth Straight
Don Keefer, who starred in bas
ketball for Carnegie Tech for 
the past three seasons, was pre
sented an award by the C-MU 
alumni during halftime of the 
Homecoming game against F&M 
for his outstanding athletic and 
scholastic achievement while at 
Carnegie. Keefer, only 511, 
jumped center during his senior 
year on the roundball squad 
and during his three years with 
the varsity hit for 757 points, 
shooting .476 from the field and 
.717 from the free throw line. 
Don also earned a 3.74 academic 
factor during the past four 
years, and graduated with hon
ors as a Mechanical Engineer.
The alumni award with Don
ald L. Keefer inscribed on it,
is to be placed intheir office
in Warner Hall. Keefer is the
first recipient ofthe honor
which, is to be made an annual
presentation.
TOUCH FOOTBALL
(Continued from Page )
Standings:W L
SAE5 1 0
BTP5 0
Old Men4 2
SN B2 2
KS2. 3
Trojans0 5
TX0 5
Cowboys League
SN found themselves tied with
the Bandits at theend of the
first half but they took the lead
in the third quarter and held on
for 9. 35-26. win.
Standings:W L
Grad Nads5 0
SN4 1
Bruins3 2
BTP B2 2
Bandits2 3
PKT Purple1 4
DU J0 5
Fr-hf 4rJ
4r!F rYl 1-Vl 
REGULAR 
MODEL
-uY W
C ,4ul rlXr
rIS mUEA2S 4uklFr1ybr4,l hlr-, 
febKlr 1yl1 Fr-hfv c4" * 0"vSend check or money order. Be sure to include your Zip Code. No pastaje or handling charges. Add 
sales tax.
fLHtS 2IUtAESv F.SU2m.sSUHE VO.L.ESAAo 
THE MOPP CO.
fv :v HU ?860C ,AE. FqO.LA FS.SUHE 
-r,-ur-g V-vg C:C06
SUNBEAM
The only spo/ts car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized AcHFMWg. Dealer. w
S&S JEEP
PITTSBURGH 
SUNBEAM-SIMCA DEALER 
731-7000
213 PENN AVE.
W'iKINSPL-iG
I
By DON BAER
The C-MU cross Country team added two mare victories to its record last week by beating Geneva College 20-35 and St. Francis 24-33. The Tartans now have a 4-2 record with four meets to go
The Geneva meet was on a 
cold, rainy, miserable day, but 
the Tartans ran very welL Bernie Flynn (24:39), John Butler 
(24:58) and Don Baer (25:12) 
took the first three places. Smith 
took fourth place for Geneva 
while Gary Scarborough (25:58), 
running his best race of the 
year, took fifth for C-MU. Gene
va captured 6th, 7th, and 8th 
placets and Dale Peschel finished 
the Tartan scoring by taking 
9th.
The St. Francis meet on the 
Saturday of Homecoming was 
very interesting, as a young St. 
Francis team took ona young 
Tartan team. The weather was 
good and so was the competi
tion. Bemie Flynn (24:12) won 
with C-MlFs fastest time of the 
year. He was followed by St. 
Franciss Steve Molnar (24:22). 
John Butler (25:17) captured 
3rd and he was followed by 
Sahradrich (25:40) from SF. 
Don Baer (25:41) C-MU and Van 
Shafter (26:01) SF continued
46............ Grove City -----...16
30.... Western Reserve ....26 
20.............. Bethany .............. 37
Davis-Elkins ................ 37
20................ Geneva................35
October 25Indiana U.
October 28at Westminster
November 1St. Vincent
and Cleveland St. (Home)
November 4Ashland
Confront . . .
(Cotinuend from Page 1) 
built bonfires which set off the 
eere glow of flood lights on the 
strange scene in the courtyard.
Some marchers talked to the 
soldiers. One black-power advo
cate singled out a huge Negro 
MP and launched an Arent 
you ashamed of yourself? ra
cial tirade at him. A hip with a 
megaphone asked one squad of 
soldiers, Wouldnt you rather 
be making it with one of our 
chicks than shooting a Viet 
.V ?????**?*************
! TECH !* * vs. j
4 rY4l, 4
I i
^Broadcast Livei
j ON
5 WRCT-Radio 900 ; * * J Saturday, Oct. 28 *
2:00 P.M.* ? ******
All Alone . . 
the every other man scoring 
pattern, they however were fol
lowed by C-MUs Scarborough 
and Dale Peschel to complete 
the Tartan scoring at 24. Chuck 
Bello and Bill Bullers a SF run
ner making the final score 
C-MU 24-St. Francis 33.
The C-MU team has as yet 
not been at full strength this 
season. Senior Co-Captain Dale 
Peschel ran for the first time in 
the Geneva with a bruised foot. 
Today the Harriers meet In
diana State in a home meet. On 
Saturday the team travels to 
Westminster for a final away 
meet of the season.
Cong? The soldiers stood pas
sively through this, as long as 
no one tried to touch them. One 
soldier in the courtyard, armed 
to the teeth, stood silently while 
a blanket-wrapped couple 
writhed in the rites of love at 
his feet.
If a marcher got too rest
less he was arrested. Occasional
ly a soldier would lose his pa
tience and strike out. Sometimes 
the soldiers would isolate a small 
group of carchers, surround 
them, an dcart them away. By 
1 am, there were a few hundred 
peace-marchers left outside the 
Pentagon. Most of these stayed 
till Sunday night, when they 
were arrested.
Many groups of marchers had 
planned informal parties for 
Saturday night or Sundayvic
tory parties, as it were. Some
how, most of those parties never 
came off. There was no victory.
The Battle of Washington was 
a stalemate. An ancient law, gov
erning battles of all kinds, says 
Jhat in case of stalemate, the 
defende is the victor. The sold
iers outside the Pentagon, and 
the incumbent warmakers in
cumbent warmakers inside the 
Pentagon, were on the defensive. 
The pacemakers had to carry 
the battle to them.
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGESTrott now Insurance Agency
281-6619 - Phones - 281-9000
Original House Of Beef
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
With Fantastic Daily Specials
Free Deliveries to all Dorms 
from 9 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
OPEN: Sun.-Thurs.: 6 a.m.- 3 a.m.; Fri.-Sat.: 6 a.m.- 4 a.m.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
h4u4hyh e1kl1 W0v::
?? * * * * * * * * * ? * * * * <* * 
* ? * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * .* * ? *
; SYRIA MOSQUE  8:30 P.M. j
: FRI., NOV. 10 and SAT., NOV. II }* ** rUsBAS2^ WC8W48Fpv uHM HE 2.TA .S K.Omt.EE2g VUtaAT2g YHLEA!2 .Eo fUSS *
FSOoAES yEUHEv h.TT eLoAL2; eul WllK eu,Y; MLUSA .Eo t.BA sIAsB
.y.aTA SH ,AEEy ,;St.Eg p800 W.TEOS FSvg f.Ivg f.v ?p0C0v fTA.2A AE8 *
3 sTH2A 2ATm .ooLA22Ao 2S.tAo LASOLE AEvATHA .Eo 2S.SA ETHIS M.ESAov 3
* - ,luuY ,4rh-u f1lFlur-r4eu 
************************************************

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - HE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 25, 1967
HOMECOMING RECAP
The fantastic PAUL BUTTERFIELD BLUES BAND will be in 
concert at St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa., on Friday, 
November 19, 1967, at 8:30 p.m* Ticket prices are $2.50 
and $3.00. For further information write St. Vincent College, 
Latrobe, Pa. Box 839.
STAMP IT!
-uY W
C ,4ul rlXr
rIA mUEA2S 4uklFr1ybr4,l hlr-, 
febKlr 1yl1 Fr-hfv y0" x 0"v
Send check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No 
postage or handling charges. Add
sales tax.
fLHtS 2IUtAESv F.SU2m.sSUHE VO.L.ESAAo 
THE MOPP CO.
fv :v Hx ?860C ,AEHx FqO.LA FS.SUHE 
-r,-ur-g V-vg C:C06
, *Y  x 0k *' m tu m'M' M '* !g id S WWWVW 
 0
l,lbr14b-, luV4ull1F 
hlbY-u4b-, luV4ull1F 
fYYF4b4FrFHorden will be on campus
Oct. 26,1967 (Thursday)
Graduating Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers and Physicists are invited to discuss career opportunities in research, design, development and manufacturing in areas such as:
Airborne Radar Systems/Video Display Systems/Telecommunications / Precision Components / Advanced Computer Techniques / Advanced Electromechanical Design Techniques.
Nordens location in Norwalk. Connecticut is easily accessible to the entire New York metropolitan area.
For convenient appointment, please make arrangements in advance through your Placement Office.
Nordei
iit; l'-'V*
Theta Xisecond place.United-ULsL.mS
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)
LS!*J 84I Lc! I* L*h LcT r
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
first place
The Queen and her Court.
W-,,YF
CAMPUS-FAVORED...
All
Popular
Prices!
? MEN ? WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
BATES FLOATERS FLATS
FLORSHEIM DRESS SHOES
WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes Avenue (Across from Strand Theatre)
Open Monday and Friday 'til 8:30 682-2928
Knock it off, Lester. Im 
trying to get some sleep.
Look, Ive got to be 
up early for the 
Intramural Dart Toss.
Why couldnt I have 
roomed witli a 
fun person?
4. 
Tell me, Lester, 
what is all this 
going to get vou?
Its already gotten me a 
great job with Equitable. 
Challenging work. Good pav. 
Responsihilitv. And the 
chance to move up to an 
important management 
position.
Can they use a top-notch 
dart thrower?
Make an appointment through your Placement Officer to see Equitables 
employment representative on (NOVEMBER 8tH or write: James L. 
Moriee, Manager, College Employment.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Am*, of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 
An F.<iutil Op/Hirtunity Employer, M/F e Kquitahle 1967
