^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
 VOLUME 54  NUMBER 18 ' Wednesday, March 7, 1962
TV Selects 
Coleman As 
Econ. Prof
Unique Collection In Hunt Library
Dr. John R. Coleman, professor 
and head of the department of 
economics of G. S. I. A., will 
the national teacher for the forth
coming series, The American 
Economy, a College of the Air 
television course. This series will 
be presented during the 1962-63 
academic year over the CBS 
vision.
The course is aimed at develop
ing interest in and an understand
ing of the Asnerican economy. It is 
hoped that the course will assist 
high school teachers to develop 
in their students an interest in 
and an orderly way of thinking 
about economics. The program is 
aimed at high school and college 
students as well as the general 
public.
The contents of the course will 
fall under three general headings, 
decided upon by Dr. Coleman. 
The three topics will be how our 
economic system allocates its lim
ited resources among the unlimit
ed wants of its members, how 
our economy faces up to the 
problems of stability and growth, 
and how our national income is 
distributed. By using the tele
vision medium, well-planned, im-r 
aginative materials can be used. 
Film strip, diagrams, and inter
views with people involved in the 
economic field are planned.
Professor Coleman, as national 
teacher for the program, will pre
sent the content of the lessons, inJohn R. Coleman
troduce guest speakers and co-ordinte the program. A specialist in 
economic education in secondary 
schools will help Professor Cole
man with the presentation of les
sons that are particularly perti
nent to high school teachers of 
economics.
A native of Ontario, Canada, 
Professor Ooleman is a graduate 
of the University of Toronto and 
received his M.A. and his Ph.D. 
from the University of Chicago.
Professor Coleman has taken an 
active interest in labor-management relations and in union af
fairs. Since 1956 he hac been an 
active arbitrator in labor-management disputes. In 1960 he was 
elected to membership in the Na
tional Academy of Arbitrators. He 
has been the co-author of several 
books and articles about this field. 
Some of these are Goals and 
Strategy in Collective Bargain
ing, Readigns in Economics, Labor 
Problems, and Working Harmony 
in Eighten Companies.
Rare Book Gallery in the Hunt Botanical Library, facing East and South.
Spring Rush Ends 
With 73 Women 
Sorority Pledges
Formal Sorority Spring Rush 
ended Monday, February 26, with 
the acceptance of bids by 54 fresh
men, and 19 upperclass women. 
The frosh and upperclass women 
who have pledged are:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Freshmen 
Carol Crane, Celia Frankel, Linda 
Friedman, Susan Good, Barbara 
Hirshman, Joanne Kean, Myra 
Lebow, Sharon Lehman, Sandy 
Lipsitz, Judy Siegal, April Soule.
Sophomores  Barbara Applbaum, Sonni Brown, Claire Rosenfeld. JuniorWendy Wolff.
Chi Omega: FreshmenHelen
Beatty, Linda Betts, Willis Gilbert, 
Nancy Greene, Esther Lieger, Dottie McVicker, Carole Murin, Sally 
Miller, Paula Smith, Kathy 
Thompson.
JuniorSally Harris.
Delta Delta Delta: Freshmen 
Sharon Freshwater, Lois Horine, 
Edie Mills, Judy Meyers, Judy 
Pogue, Mary Schilkin, Karen 
Smith, Arlene Winner.
SophomoreJanet Harton,
JuniorsAdele Arnold, Cathar
ine ODea.
Delta Gamma: FreshmenJoan 
Boschan, Nancy Cameron, Clarita 
Dzatko, Claire Ruge, Jane Sam
uels.SophomoresDiane Brown, Mimi Burn, Anne Moser, B. J. Zimnewicz.Kappa Alpha Theta: Freshmen 
Betsy Bealke, Nancy Harvey, 
Nancy Jenks, Trisha Knutsen, 
Marion Mulligan, Lynn Rayburn, 
Eileen Sharbaugh, Sharon Shuttleworth.SophomoresMary Breitenstein, 
Mary Lee Brady, Arlene Devereaux, Judy Girard, Carol Seabold, Nancy Sutherland.
JuniorsBarbara Arnold, Nee 
i [continued on page 9]
Rare Book Gallery Collection 
Of Carefully Chosen Antiques
By Joyce Holy
Probably few Techites associate the name Rachel Mil
ler Hunt with more than the Hunt Botanical Library named 
for her; yet Mrs. Hunts personal involvement with this li
brary is indeed considerable.
The Hunt Librarys Penthouse which houses the botani
cal collections, achieves a spirit of the French Regence peri
od through the decor she personally supervised and the fur
nishings she selected and gave to it. This is especially true for 
the huge Rare Book Gallery and the delicately beautiful 
Ladies Lounge. In the gallery are* 
three mammoth Savonnerie rugs 
with a floral pattern whose roses, 
irises, and lilies are full-sized in 
natural colors. These rugs, the
largest weighing slightly more 
than a ton, were woven in 1961 
on a three-century old loom in 
the little French mountain village 
of Aubusson. The mille-fleurs 
pattern was designed from speci
fications prepared by Mrs. Hunt. 
The two 14-foo reading tables 
and paired benches of French 
walnut are reproductions of Prov
ence-type originals in Mrs. Hunts 
home library. The one antique 
piece in the room is the Voltaire 
chair; an 18th Century copy of 
one used by Voltaire and notable 
for its arm-bearing quill box and 
writing surface on the left and 
easel for reading materials on the 
left. An adaptation of this by 
Thomas Jefferson is at his Monticello home. The marble fireplace 
and its gilt cheniers (andirons) 
were removed from the Eight
eenth century chateau. Chateau de 
Trelon, outside Paris, and ship
ped for this installation.
There is a Lecture - Conference 
Room where group meetings can 
be held. The 15-foot long elliptic
al conference table at the oppo
site end from the platform stands 
beneath the bacarat crystal Mclcontinued on page 10 J
English Dept. 
Begins SeriesC7
Professor Beekman W. Cottrell 
opened the lecture series of the 
English department yesterday with 
his presentation and discussion 
concerning The Winters Tale by 
William Shakespeare. Next Tues
day in tie Fine Arts Theater, Pro
fessor Norman Knox will lead a 
discussion on Jonathan Swift. On 
March 20 Professor Austin Wright 
will discuss Lord Byron on March 
27. H. L. Mencken will be dis
cussed by Professor Donald M. 
Goodfellow. The series will be 
concluded April 3 with a discus
sion on Thomas Wolfe lead by 
Professor Robert C. Slack. All of 
these lectures will be held in the 
Fine Arts Theater during the as
sembly hour on Tuesdays.
This series offered by the Eng
lish deparment is the fifteenth of 
its kind. The 1962 series is del voted to the theme Critics of Our 
i Time. In 1953 the Department of 
! English established the practice of 
I supplementing the regular series 
j with a lecture on the Shakespear| ean play selected for production 
by the Department of Drama.
Tartan Announces 
Addition Of Board 
And Columnists
Departing somewhat from past 
traditions, the Tartan is announc
ing the formation of an Editorial 
Board and a group of Columnists 
both of which are open to inter
ested students.
The Editorial Board will con
sist of three to five students who 
are aware of and interested in 
! writing about various aspects of 
j our campus community from an 
| editorial standpoint. The Board 
| will work closely with the Editor - 
! in-Chief in formulating editorial 
! policy and will work together to 
provide varied and stimulating 
! editorial material for Tartan 
J readers.
The group of columnists will
1 consist of junior or senior students 
who have areas of special interest 
on which they would like to base
I a weekly or bi-weekly column. 
Columns now in existence are 
Curtain Going Up ! a drama 
column written anonymously ev
ery year by a drama student, and 
Looking Forward a political 
column instituted this semester by 
A1 Topol, but which will be con
tinued next year by another stu
dent with interest and knowledge 
in this area.
Other areas which could fur
nish topics for special columns in
clude cultural events of the area, 
reviews and/or discussion of com
ing events music and musical ev
ents; campus social events: cam
pus chatter; science reviews of 
recent discoveries and current ev
ents; economics and business. The 
list is endless and depends only 
on personal interest and know
ledge of the writers.
Any student interested in writ
ing as a member of the Editorial 
Board or as a Columnist contact 
Sally Farrell, the Tartan, in care 
of Dr. Stricks office, Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, March 7, 1962
BULLETIN BOARD
Short Story Prizes
Readers Digest and "Story 
Magazine are offering prizes to
taling $2,000 for the best short 
stories written by college students. 
This is the sixteenth annual con
test conducted by "Story Mag
azine" to discover talented young 
writers. The winners will receive 
$500, second place $350, third 
place $250, and eighteen honor
able mention winners will receive 
$50 each. The contest winners will 
have their stories published in an 
annual hard-cover volume, Best 
College Writing.
Manuscripts for the contest 
should should 1,00 to 9,000 words 
in length and must be certified by 
a faculty member. They should be 
sent to Story Magazine College 
Contest c/o The Readers Di
gest, Pleasantville, New York, 
before April 20, 1962.
Hash and Rehash
Dr. A. Fred Sochatoff will be 
I guest for Hash and Rehash, a 
weekly luncheon conversation on 
: Tuesday. March 13, at 12:30 in 
j Room 105. All students interested 
| are invited to bring their tray or 
! sack lunches for this hour of con! versation, which will adjourn in 
time for 1:30 classes. This pro
gram is sponsored by the YMCA 
and the YWCA.
tarian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues. The free pro
gram begins about 7:00 in the 
Albert Schweitzer Room.
Emerson Club
What does society do for you 
that you cant do for yourself? 
What must you do in return for 
these benefits? Who comes first, 
you or society  your friends and 
neighbors? Dr. Jiri Nehnevjasa, 
Professor of Sociology at Pitt will 
discuss Society for Man, or Man 
for Society? with the Emerson 
Club on March 11.
Emerson Club meets at 5:30 for 
dinner ($0.75) in the First UniChess Club Tournament
The Carnegie Tech Chess Club 
is now meeting Wednesday nights 
at 7:30 in the recreation area of 
the Snack Bar. Plans are being 
made to start a ladder tourna
ment if sufficient interest is 
shown. Ladder games will not 
have to be played at the meeting 
since the time and place can be 
arranged by the participants. All 
interested players should attend 
a meeting as soon as possible to 
get their name on the ladder.
World Religions
The series on World Religions, 
sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. and 
the Y.W.C.A. open to the entire 
campus, continues on Wednesday,
GRUMMAN... OPERATIVE IN ALL DIMENSIONS
The extensive Grumman product line has applications in programs ranging from sub
marine searching to space probing.
W2F-1 Hawkeye: Carrier-based 
early warning aircraft
WF2 Tracer. Carrier-based defense 
perimeter patrol
S2F3 Tracker; detects, locates and 
destroys enemy subs
A2F1 Intruder: Attack aircraft, 
tracks and destroys enemy targets
AOl-l Mohawk: ST01 electronics 
surveillance aircraft
Gulfstream: Twin-engined turbo
prop transport
U.S. Navy Hydrofoil Research 
Ship: 200 Ft. - 300 ton Seacraft
Orbiting Astronomical Observa
tory: 3300 lb. satellite for NASA
Grummans ability to buiid a highly diversified product line is due in great part to the
up-to-the-minute facilities available to our engineers. These includoi
RESEARCH LABORATORIES: Fluid Mechanics and Plasma Physics, Hydro-acoustics, General Physics, 
High Temperature Materials and Solid State Physics, Nuclear Research, High Speed Digital/ 
Analog Computer Facility.
UNG SHAKER with sinusoidal and random capability, 32,000 lbs. output
SPACE VACUUM CHAMBER: 15 Ft. X 20 Ft. with thermal environment simulation.
COMPLETE THERMAL LABORATORY-space vacuum and solar simulation, spectroscopy measurements.
CLEAN ROOM-Controlled environments for space craft.
COMPUTE VACUUM TEST FACILITIES
ELECTRONICS SYSTEM CENTER-a complete electronics laboratory for testing everything from DC 
to microwaves and including the following: the largest indoor anechoic chamber in the United 
States devoted solely to aircraft antenna testing. Flight control simulation laboratory. Systems 
evaluation area, Electric systems laboratory.
Our BULBUEUTINIOAU RODD OTIUBAOUR UTeOTUUBOTe NTy EnOUTnU yUeBUU nNTyOyNIUE on......... March 29
Contact your placement officer for more details
If this date is not convenient send your resume to the attention of Mr. Peter Van Pytten of Engineering
Employment, Dept. CR 300.
To arrange an immediate interview CALL COLLECT LR 5-2686,Mr. W. Wesley Brown, Manager, Engineering Employment, > between 8:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M.
If this is not convenientsend your resume to his attention.
Dept. GR-11. (U. S. citizenship requ
GRUMMAN
AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION 
Bethpage  Long Island  New York
March 7, at 4:30 p.m. in Room 45, 
Skibo, with a program on Budd
hism. Mr. Charun Soedagipan, 
who has lived for 16 years in a 
Buddhist Temple in Thailand, will 
lead the discussion following the 
showing of the Life Magazine film 
strip on Buddhism. Questions and 
discussions will continue through 
dinner for those able to stay be
yond 5:45. Mr. Manco Veeraburus, a Tech graduate student from 
Thailand, will assist in the dis
cussion, also. The following week, 
Wednesday, March 14th, the Is
lam religion will be presented in 
a similar way.
Scotch *n Soda
Sign-ups for crew workers for 
Viv will be taken this week 
in the snack bar. The hours are 
from 11:30-1:30. How about some 
help?
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
All ualifled applicants considered reiarrtlcs* f raee, creed, color #r national rial*.
On Cannaswith
MaxShuJman
(Author of Rally Round Tite Flog, Boys, "The 
Many Loves of Dobie Gittis, etc.)
THE TRUE AND TRAGICAL TALE OF 
HAPPY JACK SIGAFOOS
Who would have thought that Happy Jack Sigafoos, the boy 
the sky never rained on, would teeter on the edge of a life of crime?
Certainly there was no sign of it in his boyhood. His home 
life was tranquil and uplifting. His mother was a nice fat lady 
who hummed a lot and gave baskets to the poor. His father 
was a respected citizen who could imitate more than 400 bird 
calls and once saved an elderly widow from drowning in his 
good suit. (That is, Mr. Sigafoos was in his good suit; the 
elderly widow was in swimming trunks.) Happy Jacks life 
was nothing short of idyllictill he went off to college.
Here flappy Jack quickly became a typical freshmafi 
tw'eedy, seedy, and needy. He learned the joys of rounding out 
liis personality, and he learned the cost. His allowance vanished 
like dew before the morning sun. There were times, it grieves 
me to report, when he didnt even have enough money for a 
pack of Marlboro Cigarettesand you know how miserable 
that can be! To be deprived of Marlboros matchless flavor, its 
easy-drawing filter, its subtly blended tastiness, its refreshing 
mildness, its ineffable excellence, its soft pack or flip-top box 
why, it is a prospect to break the heart in twain!
Marlboro-less and miserable, Happy Jack tried to get more 
money from home. He wrote long, impassioned letters, pointing 
out that the modem, large-capacity girl simply could not be 
courted on his meager allowance. But all Jack got back from
&%$1(oMldkiMtJQi?itfrdlmimz.
home were tiresome homilies about thrift and prudence.
Then one dark day a sinister sophomore came up to Jack 
and said, For one dollar I will sell you a list of fiendishly clever 
lies to tell your father when you need some extra money.
He gave Jack the list of fiendishly clever lies. Jack read:
1. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to buy a new 
bouse for the Dean of Men.
2. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to buy a beadstone for Rover, our late beloved dormitory watchdog.
3. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to endow a cHair 
of Etruscan Art.
4. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to build our 
own particle accelerator.
For a moment poor Jack was tempted; surely his father could 
not but support all these laudable causes. Then Jacks good 
upbringing came to the fore. He turned to the sinister sopho
more and said, Nb, thank you. I could not deceive my aged 
parent so. And as for you, sir, I can only sayfie!
Upon hearing this the sinister sophomore broke into a huge 
grin. He whipped off his black hat and pasty faceand who 
do you think it was? None other than Mr. Sigafoos, Happy 
Jacks father, thats who!
"Good lad! cried Mr. Sigafoos. You have passed your 
test brilliantly. With that he gave Happy Jack a half million 
dollars in small bills and a red convertible containing power 
Bteering and four nubile maidens.
Crime does not pay 1 e ma m buim
Money and girls havent changed Happy Jack. Except for 
the minor bulge in his cashmere jacket caused by (J) a pack 
of Marlboros and (2) a box of Marlboros, hes the same old 
Sigafoos.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 7, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
GIRLS
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1962 camp season. 
If you can organize and teach one of the following contact Miss
I. Levy, The Marylander Apts. 130, Baltimore 18, Maryland: 
Arts and Crafts, Choral Director, Trampoline, Red Cross Water
front Instructor, Tennis, Golf, Baton Twirling and Marching, Tumbling, or Camp Secretary.
I HOUR DRY (LEANING 
1 HOUR SHIRT LAUNDRY 
FLUFF DRY LAUNDRY
For Service and Quality at 
Reasonable Prices Visit:
Campus Cleaners
(One Block F rom Morewood Ave.) 
Open Daily From 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
CREDIT-ABLE SUMMERS
TOURS - JOBS - COURSES
Go to an archeological dig in Great Britain
Earn college credit at the Sorbonne, Universities of Hawaii, 
Perugia, Madrid and others
Relax on the glamorous Riviera 
Meet students at universities abroad 
Interview government officials in other countries 
Take riding, gliding and sailing courses in Germany or 
Switzerland 
Study international law in Luxembourg 
Take a job in Europe 
Swim in the warm Caribbean 
Many other uniusual possibilities
Complete Free of Charge Service
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
Pittsburgh International Travel
JOANNE L. BLUM, President
(Former Assistant Director, Foreign Policy Association of Pgh.) 
Call EXpress 1-1040
CAR NREE CRERGAISR TIUGOSFRH
I*All Invited To 
Free Christian 
Science Lecture
All Tech Students and faculty 
are invited to hear a free lecture 
today, entitled, The Healing 
[ Prayer of Christian Science, at 
1^4:45 this afternoon, Wednesday, 
March 7th, in Wherrett Lounge. 
This cordial invitation to come 
and hear what Christian Science 
is all about is extended to you by 
the members of Techs Christian 
Science Organization who r.re 
sponsoring the lecture.
Former Tech Dramatics Major 
The lecturer will be Lela May 
t Aultman, C.S.B., of Denver, Colo
rado. She is one of twenty-eight 
members of The Christian Science 
Board of Lectureship who devote 
their full time to traveling 
throughout the world delivering 
explanatory lectures on Christian 
Science. Miss Aultman is a grad
uate of our own Drama Depart
ment and is looking forward to 
being back on Techs campus. She 
has expressed joyous anticipation 
of lecturing' for all students.
Lecture Tour 
Miss Aultman has been a Chris
tian Science practioner for many 
years and an authorized teacher 
of Christian Science (indicated 
by the lettersC.S.B.) for over 
ten years. Her lecture tours have 
carried her into a number of for
eign countries. This year she will 
lecture in Canada, Ireland, Great 
Britain, and Continental Europe, 
Wj in addition to an extensive tour 
of the United States.
The members #f the Christian 
Science Organization are hoping 
that many students will take ad
vantage of the opportunity to 
learn something about this rev
olutionary religion founded by 
Mary Baker Eddy less than one 
hundred years ago. The lecture 
is guaranteed to be informative 
and thought-provoking.
Successful Mardi 
Gras Dance To Be 
An Annual Affair
The introduction of Miss Emily 
Hubbard as Queen of the Mardi 
Gras was the highlight of Inter
national Clubs Masked Ball 
 held in the Skibo Ballroom last 
Friday evening.
Her attendants %ere Miss June 
Gibson and Miss Elizabeth Fahlvik. Miss Hubbard is a sophomore 
student in Painting and Design 
and resides in Wexford, Pa. Miss 
Gibson is a music major from 
Wilkinsburg, while Miss Fahlvik 
is a visitor to Pittsburgh from 
Sweden.
Prior to the introduction of the 
p Queen and Her Court, the cos
tumed guests were entertained by 
a program especially assembled by 
the International Club. Miss Naoko Matsubara, a graduate student 
in Decorative Arts, played several 
pieces on the koto, a traditional 
Japanese instrument. Most mem
orable of these selections was 
Illusions.
Mr. Norman Goldblatt, a senior 
in the Department of Physics, 
played on the guitar Bachs Pre
lude and Fugue for Lute. Mr. 
Arthur Schaffer sang excerpts 
from The Masked Ball by Verdi 
and Poppaganos The Magic 
Flute by Mozart. He was accom
panied on the piano by Miss Mari
anne Ban.
Prof. Carlo Mazzone of the Dra
ma Department presented the 
prizes for outstanding costumes: 
Mr. Myron Doskalakis had the 
most beautiful costume, that of a 
Spanish nobleman. Dr. Fritz 
Maak, of the Metallurgy Deptartment, and Miss Elizabeth Fahlvik 
had the most original costumes; 
Cupid and Psyche.
Because the Mardi Gras dance 
was so successful, the Interna
tional Club plans to make it an 
annual affair.
HOELCRY hOTo UOTEROS
Jack Maclean is a Computer Operations Supervisor in a 
Bell Telephone Electronic Accounting Center. Jack sees 
to it that his team of people and machines keeps accurate 
tabs on over 150,000 customer statements and an equal 
number of toll tickets. And soon, instead of 150.000 state
ments, the Center will handle 300,000! A lot of responsibility for a young engineer just three years out of college.
Jack Maclean of the Bell Telephone Company of Penn
sylvania, and other young engineers like him in Bell Tele
phone Companies throughout the country, help bring the 
finest communications service in the world to the homes 
and businesses of a growing America.
mam
m BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, March 7, 1962
1isyo urnoWtnad
Engineering, Medicine & Law
A professional person has a dual commitment 
In life. He commits himself to an excellence with
in his dicipline and a responsibility to his society.
The professions of medicine and law have a 
deep rooted ancestry. Educators and colleges of 
these revered professions know that to be learned 
in the law or medicine, one must originally de
velop in another academic discipline. A man of 
law or medicine must first understand his culture, 
the focus of his profession.
The engineering student in contrast to the 
prelaw or premed student lacks a similar pur
pose and dedication to his profession and conse
quently to his society.
Dr. John C. Warner, in The Future is Now! 
states that, it. is more clearly recognized that our 
scientific and technological problems almost invari
ably contain social, conomie, political, or moral 
elements. We cannot give complete or best solu
tions without' considering thes element nd hu
man behavior. ~
In MSI Cnited -State* eolle**> gradual*! 32,3* 
engineers. Last year the iota Iw as only 37,HI. By 
IMS they wilt only graduate 32,##$ compared *? 
an annual total of 125,4# engineer? in The So
viet Uuion. ^Vhy?
Carnegie University is beginning to reflect 
upon its goals and -position as an academic Jeader. 
A conflict in ethical and intellectual values is mani
fest in todays undergraduate. He is to be, as Dr. 
St el son states'in- Education For Oblivion, The 
Engineer of the twenty first century, yet as most 
educators know  him he has only one dedication. 
His college ahd discipline are only a means to a 
secure-*-better sob and -more moneyis 4his a pro
fessional commitment?-- ..
Or. Stelsen farther state that the dene . 
>alae or obsolescence of engineering personnel may 
likely become a serious problem in modern tech
nology. This adds a double harden upon the en
gineering college of tomorrowand they will have 
to - meet at a time when two years of education 
beyond high school will be a necessity for every
one.
An important distinction is currently made in 
the two year community college between the 
terminal and the college parallel programs. The 
first is vocational training, while the latter is university preparation  secondary education versus 
higher education.
A similar clarification must be made in the edu
cation of the engineers of the twenty-first cen
tury. A sharp distinction must be made between 
the curricula of the technical engineer and that of 
the professional engineer. Four years of higher 
education may be enough for the technical engi
neer, but six to eight will be common for the pro
fessional. It will be common, because future engi
neering colleges will recognize this as a necessity 
for an adequate preparation of the professional 
engineer. There is an old saying that if one isnt 
going forward, one is falling behind. Colleges of 
engineering are no exception and must anticipate 
the needs of the twenty first century, r
Teachers colleges have *been under .fire in re-. ' 
cent \years for their emphasis on method, and 
are now concentrating on the-subject matter, Par^ 
aUeling this a similar change may be seen in engi- > 
neering colleges as they shift from kriow how to  
theory. And the number of engineering degres de- - 
creases yearly as the colleges eram the fear year 
curriculum tighter. If the undergraduate engineer - 
at Carnegie has only ene professional objective,- 
a better job; if he is without purpose, then his 
curriculum may well have a hand in enhancing > 
these values. A technical -engineer need haven 
more purpose in his work, his school, 4?- his so- ~ 
eiety.
Medicine and, law-are. professions with a strong 
sense of responsibility to ^society and to history. 
They have long ago recognized' that ^our prob
lems almost invariably contain social, economic, 
political, or moral elements and..they prepare their 
apprentices accordingly. Engineering by contrast 
has a more reeent history. As a profession it is only - 
beginning to make its dual commitment to society. 
And the engineering colleges are expected to as- > 
sume this responsibility of leadership for the pro
fession. .
The truly professional engineer of the twenty - 
first eentury will come from a college of engi- . 
neering which today assumes these responsibili
ties and educates a student who in President War
ners words may grow to full stature (both) as a 
scholar or professional person and a citizen.
Paul B. Farrell, Jr.
CURTAIN GOING UP!
By Christopher Allen
The Great Scott Is Back!
Every so often, in the true Dionysian spirit, Hollywood 
rebirth a demi-god of the literary world and immortalibes 
him in celluloid. Unfortunately most of the time the re
births are abortions. It is rare indeed when a movie is as 
good as, or superior to, the book from which it is adapted, 
and Tender is the Night is almost one of those rare cases.
The story comes, almost unadulterated, from the novel 
by F. Scott Fitzgerald, and it is a credit to Twentieth Cen
tury Fox that they had the courage to attempt the film 
version.  What is even more to their credit is the result: 
a delicately spun dress, true to the precepts of the original author.
The story concerns a young, energtic psychiatrist (Jason Robards Jr.) who falls in love with his wealthy, lovely patient (Jen
nifer Jones ) and, in spite of all objections; social, professional, 
and internal, marries her. For a while, to the surprise of everyone, 
the union is a success, but when the doctors job is done, i.e. the 
patient is fully cured, the trouble starts. As a man, he becomes 
useless, with no more function than a g:glio. He does not sup
ply" any of the normal elements of marriage, and he cant adjust 
to the "life of ease of the expatriated wealthy class in whieh he 
finds hltnself. He .takes ' to V drink, as an - expected 'nd ol a long 
chain of parties, and -fights r,and so the situations are reversed. 
The patient becomes th 'doctor, and the doctor loses all. -f' - 
As the doctor, Jason Robards Jr. is a not quite handsome, 
sensitive, anc^pftrpptiye/erofessional, With the beautifully accute 
understanding of his- character he produces one of the best film 
portrayals I have seen in many years. And as his patient-wife, Jen
nifer Jones is subtle,-* lovely, and effective. Here a note must be 
inserted ,to praise the performances of -Ely W^llach as the dried-up, 
drunken, Broadway composer, and of Joan Fontaine as Baby, the 
older sister and matriarch of the expatriated society.
As 1 said above, Tender w the Night is almost perfect. The only 
flaw in it,' as far as I can see, is the pacing. At times the film 
drags, and there is little of th frantic pace of th twenties that is 
convey d. But the scenery and color are exquisite and are ho small 
consolation in dull moments. ; 
All in all, Tender is the Night is one of the finest American 
films of the-last, few years. It is well worth the time to see it.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CAflNECIE I N T I T tJ T K O TKCHNOLOOV
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager, 
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
.Second Claw Postage Paid m? Pittsburgh, Pm.
ftted 'fer national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription R*te:: S2.00
Kilter -in-Chief ..............................Sally Ganeng Farrell
' J Miter-.-.:_____...... Allan Kullen , r
.HHor^Martin Aekermann
-Manager ............. ........................  Phil Chau
A# ttiloing* Manager ......... .. f:..... Phil Chau
-  Miter ,............................................. EU*e Grumer ^
Features HwKter .................................Jau Geisler
- Sports Miter -. ...................................Steve Rothenberg
Layout Editor ..................................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor ....................................................Carol Hosken
Secretarial Editor.........................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor ...........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor.....................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor .....................................Colin Jones
News Staff: Mike Nelson. Sandy Klein. Doris Bell, B. J. Zimmewicz. Mark Appelbaum, Mary Ferguson. Jay Ellen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan. Joyce Holy, Kris Kelinan, 
Marty Moore, Margie Park, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky
atures Staff: Margie Park, Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler, Sondra Perellis, Marlene 
Witman, Sandy- Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether, Marion Mulligan, Mary 
Dunning, Karen Smith. Irene Grandberg, Cathy ODea.
Bitintn and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser, Phil Chau, Charles HoFook, Larry 
Gaffin. Bill Froelich, Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock, Jane Klein, Miron Straff. 
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kahl, Ginny Uliss.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breitenstein B. J Zimmewicz, Miriam Gillespie. Pat Boggs 
Cap? Staff: Margie Park. Pat Michael. Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Georgia 
White, Judy Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Barry Shane1.
layout Staff: Bichard Straus, Dale Chcdoiow, Allan Pollack
Header's Write
Student Govt. 
Still Debated; 
Library. TooJ '
Govt Lacking 
In Imagination ;
Editor  The Tartan:
Kudos to Bill Ellis for his co
herent defense of Student Gov
ernment ! His is the first com
prehensive, informed statement 
of the systems responsibilities 
since it ^yas reformed in 1956 by 
Ed7Fijnbauna,#t al.  _. 7^;..
As it now stands, Studnt 
Government appears to be active 
purfiosive,-*and .well organized. 
In my view it lacks only- imagi
nation and a measure of daring.
In particular .1 question the 
extent to which student views on 
really important issues are ef
fectively expressed to the ad
ministration through the politic
al system. I do not deny that 
the services which Student Gov
ernment now provides are use
ful. I assert merely that imagi
nation and daring can broaden 
the scope of influence for Mr. 
Ellis, his partners in persuasion, 
and the students they represent.
What are the important is
sues? Money, for one ! How 
many students are disturbed by 
perpetual increases in tuition 
and the cost of living? For 
those who are, and I judge that 
there are few who are not, what 
formal channels exist for lodging 
student and parental protests with 
the administration. If any exist, 
I would judge that they are well 
[continued on page 5J
Looking Forward
The Responsibility 
Of The People
^j| By Allan J. Topol
Last Friday evening I heard and watched President Kennedy 
as he announced the U. S. decision to resume nuclear testing in 
the event that no immediate agreement can be reached with the 
Soviet Union. Like millions of other Americans, I regretted the 
necessity for. the Presidents decision as I felt he regretted it.
The candor and frankness of President Kennedy was easily 
discernible -. and certainly understandable. The decision was a 
momentous- one. Yet the responsibility for this decision rested 
squarely .with-the President of the United States,
The President's responsibility in this matter is clearly to lead 
the American people as well as the remainder of the free world. 
Yet I, like 180 million other Americans, have an equally important 
responsibility/Onrs is the responsibility of permitting ourselves to 
be led.
Some Americans have in the short space of a few days heaped 
abusive criticism upon the Presidents decision. The White House 
reported Saturday that telegrams from the American public were 
split down the middle over the Presidents decision. Yet I submit 
to you that none of these people have either the complete knowl
edge on the subject or the expert advice that President Kennedy has 
at his disposal. In short it would be totally impractical and unreason
able to allow the American electorate or American public opinion 
to make this decision. Thus the first responsibility of the American 
people is to realize that a lack of information makes it virtually 
impossible for any American to make as complete a decision as the 
President has. We must realize our own limitations.
Second, it is the responsibility of the American people to have 
faith in the leadership of their chief executive. Only a year and a 
half ago we decided to entrust our life and liberty to the hands of 
Mr. Kennedy. Only a little over a year ago, he swore a solemn 
oath to secure our life and liberty to the best of his abilities. Our 
decision in November of 1960 was our expression that Mr. Kennedy 
more than any other American was qualified to accept this respon
sibility. We must have confidence that our decision in 1960 was 
the right one. We demonstrate this confidence by placing faith in 
those decisions that the President renders.
Third, the American people must lend moral support to the 
President in this endeavor. Mr. Kennedy is subjected to the preslcontinued on page 5]

---------------------------------------------------

WINSTON TASTES GOOD CARN E GAIESNTTN UOFHCLY
1FILTER-BLEN P] is yours in Winston and only Winston. 
Up front you get rich golden tobaccos specially selected 
and specially processed for filter smoking. Smoke Winston.
1SO SHOWING
SHADYSIDE THEATRE
5518 Walnut St. MU. 2-1901
^C ARNEGI FLT-BP ]
Wednesday. March 7. 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page S
Lacks Daring
[continued from page 41 
concealed. Student Government 
can provide and keep open such a 
channel. But this is not enough. 
A student is a good example of 
an economic unit in a perfectly 
competitive buyers market. He 
cannot affect market price alone 
even if his plaints are heard, and 
if he is not willing to pay the 
price of an education at Carnegie 
Tech, others are anxious to buy 
into the market in his place. The 
student body acting in concert, on 
the other hand, is in a much 
stronger bargaining position vis a 
vis the administration. I need not 
elaborate this point to illustrate 
the more dominant role which 
Student Government could play in 
the economic policies of Carnegie 
Tech. The lesson is equally clear 
for social and academic affairs.
I suspect that the administra
tion is happy to see our Student 
Government engrossed in mani
fold trivia in hopes that its at
tention and effective action will 
be focussed away from the more 
delicate issues. Less fortunate 
foreign universities have Student 
Organizations which exert not 
only institute-wide, but nation
wide, influence. I cannot but won
der in which direction our own 
Government will move.; <
; Louis R.. Pondy 
G.S.I.A.
Library Wastes 
Students' Time
Editor, The Tartan:
This is an open letter to Mr. 
K. H. Fagerhaugh and the li brary staff, concerning the -, fol
lowing daily sequence:
Each morning, long before 8:30 
classes begin, students from Pitts
burgh and its outlying area, start 
to arrive on campus. For'want of 
a' better place, they can' be seen 
accumulating mainly in the lobby 
of Administration Hall. By 8:30. 
this pool of students, has grown 
to a sizeable number and they 
disperse to the classrooms or to 
the library, as another day at 
Carnegie Tech begins.
But one question remains  
why must these student be forc
ed to stand around each morning 
like loiterers, wasting precious 
minutes? Is it entirely beyond the 
realm of possibility that the li
brary could be opened before the 
time-honored hour of 8:30? How 
about, say, 8:00. Im sure the li
brary staff would be amazed at 
the number of students in the 
library and studying for impor
tant morning classes by 8:15.
Lets not persist in these morn
ing lockouts when the student la
bor force is ready for work !
David Easley 
Soph, Dr.J
This Week 
In Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7
Chatham College, 8:00 p.m.Film, Part Three of the Trilogy 
The World of Apu
Civic Arena, 8:00 p.m.Hockey (Hershey)
THURSDAY, MARCH 8
C.I.T. Porter Hall 100Film Arts presents Shoeshine
Chatham College Chapel, 11:30 a.m.Lecture on 'The Jewish 
Doctrine of Man by Rabbi Harold Silver 
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 p.m.Travelogue: New Zealand, 
Nicol Smith
FRIDAY. MARCH 9
Syria Mosque, 8:40Pittsburgh Symphony: Guest Violinist,
Nathan Milstein; also Haydn Flute Concerto, Bernard Goldberg 
SATURDAY, MARCH 10
Carnegie Music Hall, 3:00 p.m.C.I.T. Sponsored Composers 
Forum: Music of Lucas Foss 
SUNDAY, MARCH 11 
. Syria Mosque, 3:10 p.m.Pittsburgh Symphony 
C.I.T. Little Theater, 8:30 p.m.Phillips Quartet 
C.I.T. Porter Hall 100Film Arts presents The Red and the 
Black
CONTINUING EVENTS
NixohWest Side Story
The PlayhouseNightly at 8:30, Sunday at 7:30 
Craft Avenue TheaterThe Andersonville Trial
-  Hamlet - Street Theater-rThe World of Sholom Aleichem 
Theater UpstairsA Pair of Spectacles
GatewayLover Come Back
PennSergeants 3
WarnerJudgment at Nuremberg
StanleySummer and Smoke
. Squirrel HillThe Mark
GuildLa Belle Americaine
C.I.T.Drama Department Production of Shakespeares Winters 
Tale
We Must Support Elected Leaders
rcontinued from page 4\ 
sures of so-called neutral nations who at times seem anything but 
neutral, of a Britain which desires to talk and a Fiance which is 
skeptical of talking, and of a Soviet Union bent unon its own 
triumph. No leader can lead without support. We and we alone 
can provide the continued unwavering support so essential to 
leadership. Our support demonstrates a sense of national unity so 
important in dealing with other nations.
In short, the responsibility of the American people is to elect 
leaders and then to follow these leaders. It is the responsibility 
of the leaders to lead.
In The Public Philosophy, Walter Lippmann has charged that 
mass opinions have enfeebled the power of the executive. He 
claims that this derangement of the governing power has forced 
the democratic states to commit disastrous and, it could be. fatal 
mistakes. Perhaps by carrying out our responsibility as Ameri
cans, in nuclear testing as well as in other questions, the disasters 
hovering over oud world may be averted.
Composer Forum 
Presents Music 
Of Luke Foss
The Music of Lukas Foss will 
be the subject of the third of this 
years series of Composers Forum$,.( 
Saturday, March 10, at 3:00 p.m. 
-in the Carnegie Music Hall.
The Forums, sponsored  by 
Techs department of music, are 
made possible through combined 
^ grants from the Howard Heinz
* Endowment, the A. W. Mellon Ed
ucational and Charitable Trust, . 
and from a trust fund of the ReT 
coi'ding Industries obtained 
through the cooperation of Local 
60, American Federation of Musi
cians.
Mr. Foss will open the program 
with introductory remarks, which 
will be followed by a program of 
certain of his selections by the 
composer, himself, and his Im4T provisation Chamber Ensemble 
with Adele Addison, soprano, as
sisting. The Improvisation Cham
ber Ensemble is composed of Rich
ard Duffalo, clarinet; Howard 
Coif, cello; and Charles DeLahcey, percussion.
Following the program, there 
will be a question and answer pe
riod. Admission to the forum is 
free and no tickets are required.
*r
Frt yPirt ze sandr rPir mnzdrt
B On Reynold Tobacco Co . Wiaiion-Salem. N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

Ta*e   THE CAINEGIE TARTAN Wednesday. March 7, IMI
Executive Council Retains Strong 
Enforcement And Valuation Power
The Executive function of Stu* 
dent Government is in the hands 
f Executive Council. This coun
cil consists of: the president of 
Womens Dormitory Council; the 
president of Mens Dormitory 
Council- the president of the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents; 
the president of Pi Delta Epsilon; 
a representative of the activties 
honoraries; a representative of the 
scholastic honoraries; the Chair
man of Student Congress; the 
Treasurer of the Student Govern
ment; a representative from the 
religious organizations: and a rep
resentative of the departmental 
and miscellaneous clubs who have 
nto already been recognized.
Each members serves for one 
academic year, unless their posi
tions change bi-yearly. The mem
bers of the Executive Council for 
the academic year of 1961-1962 
are: Warren Askew: Pete Bouxsein. president: Bill Ellis; Harold 
Erickson; Paul Farrell: Henry
Henderson: Joyce Spindler; Rita 
Paris; Dave Pearson; and Bob | 
Stocking. The president of Exe
cutive Council is the one respon
sible for the functioning of the 
Council, and he has the power to 
call meetings when he deems nec
essary for its constitutional func
tioning. Each year the president 
f the Council must report to Stu
dent Congress on the present 
State of the Campus and evaluat
ing the various Student Activities.
The president of Executice 
Council is elected from its mem
bers, (the Chairman and Treas
urer of Student Congi'ess are not 
eligible), three weeks before final 
examinations, serving up until 
the elections the following year.
The secretary of Executive 
Council keeps all records of the
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL IN ACTION
business of the organization but 
does not receive a vote.
The treasurer is responsible for 
the allocation of all funds 
handled through Student Congress 
and submits in a written report 
all recommendations concerning 
financial matters from Executive 
Council to the Chairman of the 
Financial Committee of Student 
Government. The treasurer also 
submits Student Activities budget 
proposals for the following year 
to the Financial Committee of 
Student Congres.
The Executive Council has 
many powers vested in it by the 
Construction of Student Govern
ment. This Commtitee has the 
power to enforce the laws, regu
lations, and decisions of Student 
Congress while it still can review 
and recommend legislation to Stu
dent Congress. Through the treas
urer, the Executive Council must 
account for the allocation of all 
funds through Student Congress. 
Executive Council is the liaison 
between the Administration of 
the Schol and the Student Body 
in non-academic affairs concern
ing students. Each year the Exe
cutive Council evaluates the whole 
Student Government and suggests 
any changes it feels are necessary.
Executive Council has the pow
er to veto legislation by a written 
report of its reasons for apply
ing the veto.
For Shoes Set . . .
WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES 
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night till 9 P.M.
We ail make mistakes...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATON S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied 
behind your backits easy to turn out perfect papers 
on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. 
Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.Theres never a telltale erasure 
mark on Corrasables special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, 
medium, heavy weights and Onion I:'
Skin. In convenient 100-sheet /- ^
packets and 500-sheet ream 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION :E: P1TTSP1ELD, MASS.
Minds are different, too. You cant ink them and 
roll them and press them on hard-finished white 
paper. But you can test them, mold them, nurture 
them, shape them, stretch them, excite them.
And challenge them. At Cal Tech's Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory, thats all we do. The products of these 
minds are spacecraft and instruments that will explore 
the Moon and planets and communication systems to 
probe outer space.
Its a big responsibility. And It requires tf>e finest young 
scientific and engineering minds this country has to 
offer. Many, many minds that work as one. Minds such 
as yours, perhaps. Wont you come in and talk to us? If 
you have a mind to?
JET PROPULSION LABORATORY
4800 OAK GROVE DRIVE, PASADENA, CALIFORNIAbwtttute f for Dm AireMwtfa * Site* AjjptoWr
March 26  Contact UniversityOn campus interviews: e or,,* ^ PIWin,mea,
AN Wltewtt Ml rectivf coMtdtr** for without^ to rc, trtti or wtlowl v*n / U. 8, cUmmW or nial ttwn* item* rww*t4

---------------------------------------------------

Tareyton AM# delivers Ufi 
the flavor
DVAL FILTER DOES IT!
ACTIVATED CHARCOAL 
INNER FILTER
PURE WHITER 
OUTER FILTER
In Person
Sunday. March 11
8 p.m.____________
I
Soldiers 6 Sailors 
Memorial Hall
Presented by
* Beta Pi Sigma 
Fraternity
Tickets:
$3.00  $2.60  $2.20
Os Sale at Hernes, PHONE 
OSDEBS GR. 1-4497 and Main 
Desk at Pitt Student Union
' THE
ohnRCCl
FeOH
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS
p laonW.addUpf.Wg. edWocn.h a.r bit.nycn.hym ksaoitn.h SVU League baycnW.y sH
r LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP ">
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
Wednesday, Mareh 7, 19*  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pat *
lOarutrt HzeebuWtg Fdmc
 of 
Shadyside 
Village
PRE-INVENTORY 
CLEARANCE
SMALL OILS  WATER 
COLORS  PASTELS 
729 Filbert St. MA. 1-6466
"Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!'
says Julius (Cookie) Quintus, ace javelin man and 
B.M.A.C. (Big Man Around Coliseum). A Tareyton would 
even make Mars mellow, says Cookie. Tareytons a rara 
avis among cigarettes. Its one filter cigarette that really 
delivers de gustibus. Pick up a pack today and youll find 
theres Pliny of pleasure in T&reyton.
hort yPtizeTareyton
tf <^Vnw Sywy  m mf ntWh i
-ARROWFrom the
Cum Laude Collection
$implications Available For 
College Qaulification Test
Applications for the April 17, 
1962 administration of. the Col
lege Qualification Test are now 
available at Selective Service Sys
tem local boards throughout the 
country.
Eligible students who intend to 
a*Ke this test should apply at once 
to the nearest Selective Service 
local board for an application 
and a bulletin of information.
Following instructions in the 
bulletin, the student should fill out 
his application and mail it imme
diately in the envelope provided 
to SELECTIVE SERVICE EXAM
INING SECTION, Educational 
Testing Service, P.O. Box 5886,
Higma Xi Extends 
Membership To 
Encourage Science
Nine Tech seniors were elected 
to associate memberships in the 
Tech chapter of the Society of 
Sigma Xi at a meeting, Tuesday, 
March 6, at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room of Skibo.%m The nine were elected to the 
society, which is the national hon
orary devoted to encouragement 
of research in all fields of pure 
and applied science, because of 
their outstanding scholastic rec
ords and an evident aptitude for 
research.
The speaker for the meeting was 
Dr. Milton C. Shaw, professor and 
head of the department of me
chanical engineering at Tech. Proressor Shaw talked on Physical 
Principles vs Observed Effects. 
He illustrated by reference to clas
sical examples of theoretical mis
interpretation from the work of 
Archimedes, Galileo and others, 
the importance of correctly indentifying the main physical princi
ple associated with an observed 
physical effect.
Sigma Xi has chapters at all
ajor universities where impornt research programs are in 
progress and each year elects a 
limited number of outstanding 
seniors. Those elected this year 
are: David John Ayres, Willard 
L. Gilbert, Mark Elliot Jacobs, 
Charles Arthur Raquet, Matthew 
J. Reilly, Andrew Y. Schoene, 
Stephen M. Strassen, Allan J. To
pol, and Thomas G. Williams.
Princeton, New Jersey. Applica
tions for the April 17 test must be 
postmarked no later than mid
night, March 27, 1962.
According to Educational Test
ing Service, which prepares and 
administers the College Qualifica
tion Test for the Selective Service 
System, it will be greatly to the 
students advantage to file his ap
plication at once. Test results will 
be reported to the students Se
lective local board of jurisdiction 
for use in considering his defer
ment as a student.
Student Music 
Groups Compete
Lycoming College, Williamsport, 
Inter-Collegiate Music Competi
tion on May 10 and 11, 1962. Any 
student jazz, rock and roll, or vo
cal group may apply. There will 
be representatives present from 
Capital Records, Inc., Liberty 
Records, Inc., Lycoming Music 
Corporation, and Continental Art
ists. Prizes will consist of $600 
in cash, trophies, and other non
cash items. This is an excellent 
opportunity for a college group to 
become recognized. Applications 
and information may be obtained j S5 
from your director of student ac- I  
tivities or by writing to IMC, Bo 5 
35, Lycoming College, Williams- j 55 
port, Pennsylvania. Deadline for 53 
application will t>e April 1, 1962. j ^
ARROW
University Fashion 
In Batiste Oxford
This authentic Arrow button-down, 
has a special appeal for you. 
Heres why ... Arrow craftsmanship 
and care for detail insures you of a 
properly fitting roll collar. The shirt is 
Mitoga cut to fit the lines of your 
body with no unsightly bunching 
around the waist. 
In stripes and solid colors of your 
choice. Sanforized labeled.
*5.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN - Wednesday, March 7, 1962
Prof. Kimberly Entertains Tech 
Drama Alumni In New York
By Lynn Pasternak
Every year at holidaytime, New 
York City is the site of a series 
of special cocktail parties. An in
vitation to one of these reads The 
Dramat Cocktail Party' and has 
the signature of Prof. Bess Kim
berly, the Drama ' Depts wellknown costume instructor.
The Dramat Cocktail Party is 
an off-shoot of a little hobby be
gun by Miss Kimberly several 
years ago, which has since become 
a full-scale production. Gather
ing information from TV credits 
and theater program credits, and 
making many trips to New York 
in the process, she wrote newslet
ters about the activities of Tech 
drama alumni in the entertain
ment world. Miss Kimberly has 
now written eleven of these annual 
newsletters.
Meanwhile, the Dramat Cock
tail Party  stemmed from the in
terest created by these newslet
ters. In 1956, Miss Kimberly be
gan the first of a series of annual 
reunions, most of them in New 
York, some in other places, such 
as the-one upcoming on March 16, 
which will be a theater party 
centering around A Winters 
Tale. This is the second reunion 
of the Pittsburgh alumn..
For this contribution, Prof. Kim
berly was awarded the Service 
Award at the last Homecoming. 
Noting her voluminous collection 
of playbill fragments and assorted 
scraps of paper, someone re
marked that this hobby would 
probably continue until Bess runs 
out of the backs of old envelopes. 
Other Interests
In addition to her social life*' 
Miss Kimberly has many other 
activities. She is an accomplished 
clothing designer, and has made 
two trips to Europe, visiting many 
museums, to study theatrical and 
pei'iod costumes. During Pitts
burghs Bicentennial celebration, 
she was selected to design the cos
tumes for The Golden Crucible, 
an outdoor production which was 
presented at Point State Park dur
ing the summer of that year. In 
addition, Prof. Kimberly super
vises costume design for practi
cally all Drama Dept, productions.
In addition to these activties, 
she still performs many other 
functionsthese are most familiar 
to those who are in her make-up 
oi costume designing classes. She 
actually teaches two kinds of cos
tuming; The History of Costume 
Design and Theatrical Costume 
Design. Butand this can be evi
denced by anyone who has seen 
her crowded officethe biggest 
work-load of all comes from her
Bess Kimberly
position as assistant to the head 
of the department. With so much 
accomplished during her 33 years 
on Techs faculty, it is no wonder 
that Miss Kimberly is one of our 
best-knowTn teachers.
We Will Interview On . . . 
FRIDAY, MARCH 9
Engineers:  Electrical  Mechanical  Industrial
For Positions In
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING 
SALES ENGINEERING 
DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
CUTLER  HAMMER Inc.
EnW.sst udsRotnRad Da.ikaRoitsty 
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN
Equal Opportunity Employer
ENGINEERSSCIENTISTS
YMCA Tours Civil
War Battlefield
On the weekend of March 31 
and April 1, the Y.M.C.A. and 
Y.W.C.A. will sponsor a station 
wagon trip to the Gettysburg Civil 
War Battlefield, one of our coun
trys National Monuments. In ad
dition to the regular museum and 
lecture of the battle illustrated by 
an electrified map, the group will 
be given a lengthy personally 
conducted tour of the actual bat
tlefield by an ardent Civil War de
votee whose farm contains part of 
the battlefield, and whose house 
still proudly preserves its bullet 
holes. The group will be restricted 
to five overseas and two American 
students and there are still some 
places open.
Overnight accommodations and 
meals will be at Gettysburg Col
lege. Total cost for the weekend, 
including transportation, insur
ance, meals from Saturday dinner 
through Sunday noon dinner, 
overnight lodging, and admission 
to the museum and lecturc will be 
no more than $ 12.00. Not covered 
are Saturday noon lunch plus per
sonal expenses. The group leaving 
on Saturday around 8:00 /i.m. 
should be back on campus by :00 
p.m. Sunday.
Reservations will be taken on 
a first-come, first served basis, 
with a deposit of $5 necessary to 
hold a place. Register now to be 
sure to be included.
WHERE DO YOU TURN FROM HERE?
When you turn to General Dynamics | Astronautics youll see an exciting 
selection of career opportunities. Because here you will participate in 
high-priority missile and space vehicle programs. Atlas, Centaur, Mercury, 
Midas, Arents, Rover, Ranger, and many other space projects of a dramatic 
nature offer the dedicated young engineer or scientist a whole new world 
of inspiring work. And all within the perfect year-around climate of San 
Diego-the city that is fast becoming known as the nations center of scien
tific endeavor. Advanced degree studies are offered at four institutions in 
the area.To take the right turn in your career... be sure you see the General 
Dynamics I Astronautics representative who will be visiting your campus 
soon. To arrange for a personal interview, contact your placement officer.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOY
Interviewing March 16
GENERAL DYNAMICS | ASTRONAUTICS
8200 KEARNY VILLA RO.. SAN DIEGO 12. CALIFORNIA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 7, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 9
<v Tartan Seeks Staff Editors 
For New Activities Year
The time is fast approaching 
x when the present Tartan editorial 
staff must turn over leadership 
of the organization to a new group 
of staff editors. By the middle of 
April the new staff will be active
ly engaged in publishing the 
^ weekly newspaper while retiring 
members will step back offering 
only advice if needed.
Any persons interested in par
ticipating on the Tartan staff as 
a staff editor for the coming ac
tivities year are invited to apply 
for the position in which they are 
intrested. Applicatons will be ac
cepted for the positions of Editorin-Chief, Business Manager, Ad
vertising Manager, News Editor, 
& Assistant News Editor, Features
Editor, Layout Editor, Assistant 
News Editor, Features Editor, 
Copy Editor, Secretarial Editor 
and Photography Editor.
Applications should include a 
statement of interest, qualifica
tions for the position, and other 
activities. Previous Tartan experi
ence is helpful but not necessary 
for all positions. All applications 
must be received by Wednesday, 
March 21, and should be sent to 
Sally Farrell, the Tartan, in care 
of Dr. Stricks office, Skibo.
AM* HIS OftCHKSTt A - 
Settle OYTTNF NYt ^
JA 1-8384
Sorority Rush
tcontinued from page 1 ]
Sheedy, Carol Smith, Pat Waxman.
Kappa Kappa, Gamma: Fresh
menAnn Oarten, Barbara Cerra, Betsy Hall, Eileen Mauclair, 
Becky Stone, Peggy Ross. 
SophomoreMary Moore.
Sitrma Kappa: FreshmenJean
ne Whittredge, Kathryn Johnson.
Pollock Wins 
Prize With Essay 
On Automation
Kears Pollock, a senior student 
in the Chemical Engineering De
partment at the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, was the win
ner of the first prize in an essay 
contest sponsored by the Pitts
burgh Chapter of the Pennsylva
nia Society of Professional Engi
neers. Mr. Pollocks essay was en
titled AUTOMATION, ITS EF
FECTS.
The essay contest, which was 
open to students from area uni
versities, was held to emphasize 
the theme of National Engineers 
Week, February 18-24| The 
theme of the week is ECO
NOMIC GROWTH THROUGH 
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
ING.
A cash prize of $125 was pre
sented to Mr. Pollock at the Pro
fessional ''Engineers Banquet at 
the Park Schenley, Thursday, 
February 22nd.
Mr. Pollock is from Indiana, 
Pennsylvania, and is also the re
cipient Jot the Sloan ' Ftftindation 
Scholarship.
So you 
transferred your 
savings account to 
Union National 
Bank today? 
Why?
Theyre paying 
Md?L interest now, 
and it is available 
four times a year. 
Make more money 
that way-cant 
beat that.
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
*nzarP Oidzf ir pnn, Hraiirg #.KM#.? *i,iaib Hraiir SnarP Drf(i 
V #vFX *na1it Oisrzfg Ii-bid, c 04
AI HiidrP Oidzf 4 XXd, HraiirMir (P Oidzig biiia *ipig *ic 
Cia$aurz3 4 onee(r 4 EnyiaMHzaaiU ( Tnainenbuf ryn fprU
nz mid 1id- yurP zi hy 3iar
w*. i**<*. ****.i((rfm *pfa2b bfsyP CARNE
( tceoM piayms - 
- JtojjMiirs 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
If you arc a quaked Wd6Bdf(ai((KLuM 
dent who feels your future lies in r. search or applied engineering, be sure 
 to see the Linde Company repre
sentative when he is interviewing on 
campus.
The TARN Laboratories provide 
an ideal growth environment for the 
6cientiiic-minded. Significant is the 
fact that, in only 15 years, TARN re
search and applied engineering people 
have created products and facilities 
which now account for more than half 
of the company's total sales volume.
nz mid 6any it GNIST 6anytc 
5 Tndrimr 9nza Wd6udWWaud6 ebimW3Wdr 
nssumW dny sna id ieenudr3Wdrc
LINDE rnfimrn 
COMPANY G3SSE9
Lmda Company. Division of Union Carfaid Corporation
AN EQUAL-OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
STEP
CLOSER 
TO YOUR
ICON.  TOES. 
MARCH 12 - 13
WeM-Preserved Forty plus
mmm 3 Why men watch girls
Men watch girls for various reasons. Personally, we need 
no better reason than the reason men climb mountains.'' 
They are there. We have heard old men say they watch 
girls because it makes them feel younger and young 
men because it makes them feel older (see above). While 
investigating the reasons why men watch girls we picked 
up a clue from, of all things, a bird watcher. He told us
WHY BE AN AMATEUR ?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW!
UOFF RTRHTLYENh TO"'c !utur rPW W,urnauib nssumW ns 
rPut ez1bumirund sna i saWW 3W31WatPue mia, ud rPW ynab,^t 
ndb9 tnmuWr9 ,WnrW, rn ,utmaWWrg 1zr aWbWdrbWttg 6uab yirmPJ
ud6c Tndtrurzrund ns rPW tnmuWr9 nd aWWatW tu,W ns mia,c
This ad based on the book, The Girl Watchers Guide/ Text: Copyright by Donald J. Sauers. Drawings: Copyright by Eldon Dedini. Reprinted by permission of Harper & Brothers.
that he formerly had been at flower watcher. Then one 
day a Speckle-Breasted Jackdaw happened to land m 
hts garden as he was watching a calla lily and he noticed 
that the bird moved. He switched to birds on the spot. 
Girl watchers have discovered that girls enjoy this same 
advantage (movement) over calla lilies. (Speaking of ad
vantages, how about Pall Malis natural mildness!)
Pall Malls 
natural mildness is so good 
to your taste!
So smooth, so satisfying.J o
so dow 11rigi 11 si ilokeable!
1C /Wild f H tur miJdlt Itam<

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  THE CARNEGIE TAETAN  Wednesday, March 7, 1962
Scotch ii Soda 
Chooses Cast; 
Names Withheld
From 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. last 
Saturday there was a strong feel
ing of tension in Wherrett 
Lounge. Creating the aura weie 
nearly forty student aspirants, and 
the Board of Scotch n Soda  
final selections for the cast and 
chorus of Viv were being made.
Adding to the tension was an 
orientation speech by President 
Stu Warshawsky that preceded 
the selections. It was emphasized 
that this years show, unlike the 
last, would be true community 
theater. In other words, an organ
izational attitude will be replaced 
by actors working off stage as well 
as on  everybody wTill work 
for the show.
Exerpts from the script of 
Viv, were then read as in the 
previous two weeks, and the 
Board shuffled parts and person
alities to find the right combina
tions. At a little after twelve the 
auditioners took a coffee break 
in the snack bar, while the final 
decisions were reached by the 
Board. (Stu Warshawsky, Pat 
Moore, Mike Hall, Dean Brown, 
Dave Stock, Dinah Maxthias, 
Wendy Bers, Regina Ress, Bob 
Levison, Richard Pressman, Lois 
Croco, and Kathy Nord).
As Warshawsky began to read 
off the assignments, there seemed 
to have been a mass inhalation as 
everyone braced. Then, one by 
one, there was a relieved exhal
ing. Most were elated, but some 
inevitable were faced with disap
pointment. The happiest of all 
w'ere the members of the Board 
who were blessed with what they 
really believe to be the best cast 
in several years.
Publicity Director, Richard 
Pressman, has withheld the names 
of the cast members, jut has pro
mised a series of articles intro
ducing them beginning next week.
With the show only two months 
away (May 6, 7, 8, 9), the hard 
work foretold by Warshawsky is 
about to begin.
Library Houses Mrs. Hunts 
Rare And Beautiful Collection
[continued from page I]
Masters chandelier transferred 
from the Hunt residence. Fourteen 
Red-leather upholstered arm 
chairs arranged about the table 
are reproduction of a Loius XIV 
chairs admired and selected by 
Mrs. Hunt. Over the nearby ele
vator doorway extends a Flemish 
tapestry with a central floral pat
tern. This tapestry once hung in 
the Royal Palaca at Fontainbleau, 
outside Paris. Throughout the 
penthouse areas open tc the pub
lic, the teakwood parquet floors 
and the French walnut panelling, 
together with the contrasting 
green damask-silk draperies, pro
vide a sense of warmth, friendli
ness, and appeal that sets the 
Penthouse environment far apart 
from the almost cold severity of 
the modernity exemplified by 
vertical lines of plate glass and 
aluminum.
The sense of Old World richness 
achieved by Mrs. Hunt, coupled 
with the feeling of quality that 
exudes from the composite decor 
of the Penthouse, serve to em
phasize the harmony that exists 
between this environment and 
that represented by the old, the 
rare, and the beautiful volumes 
composing the collections. These
collections are more than old and 
rare books. There are collections 
of flower prints and paintings, of 
hundreds of letters by botanists 
who lived and worked in earlier 
centuries, of some of the finest 
examples of printing  old and 
modern that exist anywhere, and 
bookbindings by the most famous 
binders of Europe and America.
[continued next week]
Student Opinion 
Used By Congress 
To Achieve Change
Although, admittedly, Student 
Congress cannot directly decide 
calendar changes, it can use stu
dent opinion to influence such de
cisions. In a discussion of the 
proposed calendar changes during 
the February 28 meeting of Stu
dent Congress, Mark Applebaum 
informed those attending of Dr. 
G. K. Browns, Dean of Division 
of Student Affairs, request that 
Congress formulate definite rea
sons for the continuation of Fall 
Festival and Spring Carnival. 
This request was madt by Dean 
Brown in order that he may be 
sufficiently prepared to present
student opinion when the propos
ed calendar change is brought be
fore the Executive Board.
It is urged that students ex
press their opinions through their 
representatives. If Spring Carni
val and Fall Festival are to sur
vive the calendar revision, it 
shall be only as a result of the 
united support of the students 
with well thought out, well pre
sented arguments.
Jack Turk announced that 
many organizations had not yet 
filed their financial reports. The 
deadline was to have been Feb
ruary 28. but a grace period ex
tending to March 7, was approv
ed. The organization failing to file 
reports by March 7 will no longer 
be recognized by Student Con
gress and will loose such priv
ileges as holding meetings in Skibo and having their activities in
cluded in the school calendar.
FOR RENT
Apartment available in Squirrel 
Hill September 1, Four rooms, 
bath, Unfurnished. Range and re
frigerator. Reasonable.
Call JA. 1-7068 before March 15.
COMING!
The New
Marlboro Pack Saving Contest
Start collecting your Marlboro, Philip Morris, Parlia
ment and Alpine Packs Now.
Your organization may be the winner.
For further information and closing date, watch the 
coming issues of the Tartan.
? TONY'S BARBER SHOP
 SPECIALIZING IN AIX KINDS IG HAMCUTS
? NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
? It* St. (Hw C*rnr P*rbct ul B*qoet)
X New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
Tech Hosts 
Debate Contest
The Tech debate team continu
ed its active pace by entering the 
Mt. Mercy College tournament, 
February 23 and 24, and by spon
soring their own tournament here 
March 3.
At the Mt. Mercy Tournament 
Tech competed against nine other 
colleges. Allan Topol won first 
place in the extemporaneous 
speaking contest Friday evening 
with the topic Can Foreign Aid 
Help Us in the Cold War? Sat
urday afternoon the Tech debate 
team had a record of four and 
four. Bob Metcalfe and Bob Haw
kins were the affirmative speakers 
while Larry Arendas and Allan 
Topol were the negative speakers. 
Tech won the debates with Mt. 
Mercy, Penn State, Geneva, and 
Mansfield. Duquesne and Rich
mond were the first and second 
place winners.
This past weekend the eleventh 
annual Tartan Tournament was 
held at Tech with ten schools 
participating. Friday evening, the 
extemporanous speaking contest 
was won by Tim Lavelle from 
Duquesne with the topic of 
Nato. Larry Arendas, from 
Tech, placed second, speaking on 
the topic of Disarmament. The 
debate on Saturday saw Kent 
State place first with a record of 
6 and 2. Pitt (6-2) took second, 
Duquesne (5-3) third, and Tech 
(5-3) fourth. Bob Hawkins and 
Tom Miller debated the affirma
tive and Larry Arendas and Mike 
Gross the negative side of the 
question Should Labor Unions 
Come Under Anti-Trust Law JurYour Future in Electronics at Hughes
As the Wests leader in advanced electronics, Hughes is engaged in some of the most dramatic and 
critical projects ever envisioned. Challenges for your imagination and development are to be found in 
such diversified programs as:
I
Project Surveyor (soft lunar landing) 
3-dimensional Radars 
Plasma Physics, Ion Propulsion 
Solid State Materials and Devices
Communications Satellites 
Digital Computer Systems 
Hydrospace Electronics 
Infrared
These are among the more than 500 outstanding programs now in prog
ress at Hughes. These programs require the talents of E.E.s and Physi
cists who desire to work with professional scientists in research, de
velopment and manufacture.
In addition, Hughes sponsors advanced degree .programs for aca
demic growth. These programs provide for advanced degree study 
at many leading universities.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS and PHYSICISTS
B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. Candidates 
Members of our staff will conduct
CAMPUSINTERVIEWS
March 21, 1962
Find out more about the wide range of 
activities, educational programs, reloca
tion allowances and progressive benefit 
plans offered by Hughes. For interview 
appointment or informational literature 
consult your College Placement Director, 
Or write: College Placement Office, 
Hughes, Culver City, California.
An equal opportunity employer.
Creating a new world with Electronicsj----------------------------------------------------,
I I I I I I l_HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
HUGHES
nal Eliminati 
rv and a Fr
i / oy me 
it William 
nan debat
rch
ent
ind

---------------------------------------------------

Swimming
Allegheny
Tartans Take Bve For 
Match & Penn-Ohio Meet
On Tuesday, February 27, the 
Allegheny swimmers defeated 
Tech at Tech by the score of 54- 
41. The Tartans inability to win 
I more than three first places and 
jie relay cost them the victory, 
[even though they captured five 
second places. For Tech, Tom 
Vandersalm was a double winner 
I in the 220 (2:29.3) and 440 (5:28.7) 
freestyle events. Joe Oldfield cap
tured the other first in the divson placed second and third re
spectively in the 50 and 100 free
style. Ken Kantrowitz swam his 
I best 200 buterfly time to date 
[2:40.0) while edging out Beatman 
Allegheny for second. In the 
I closest freestyle relay race of the 
season, Ira Rubin, Tom Snow, 
Brunson and Kowach (4:04.2)c 
(edged out Allegheny.
Bruce Carlile of Allegheny 
broke the pool record in the 200 
[individual medley (2:18.5), eclips
ing the six-week record of Grove 
Citys Stadler by 5.9 seconds. Car[ lile then came back to capture the 
00 butterfly (2:26.2). Vandersalm 
fed the Tartans followed by Stra
iten, Brunson and Oldfield.
Penn-Ohio Meet
In the 18th annual Penn-Ohio 
I Championships held at Tech pool 
I on Saturday, March 3, Grove City 
(105 points), last years runner - 
Jup, dethroned Slippery Rock (78 
 points), this years runner-up. 
I Closely bunched together were 
(Westminster (36 points) in third 
Itace, Fenn (34 points) in fourth, 
[and Carnegie Tech (29 points) in 
fifth place.
Points were awarded to all conItestants in the relay events and 
[medals to members of the first 
[three teams. In the individual 
|events, points and medals were 
[awarded to the first six places.
As anticipated, several new 
.records were set. In the 200 in
dividual medley, Madden (2:21.4) 
Slippery Rock lowered his own 
3enn-Ohio record of 2:24.6 as did 
the runner-up, Stadler (2:22.9) of 
rove City. In the 200 butterfly, 
Grove Citys Monahan (2:26.3) 
lowered Maddens Penn-Ohio rec
ord (2:?6.8). Alysse (SR) was sec|ond (2:36.0). In the 100 free
style preliminaries, Schare (SR) 
|(53.8) tiec the Tech pool record 
and he won the finals (54.1) fol
lowed by Trelenko (GC) (555.51).
f'estminsters ODonnell (5.02.9) 
[Towered his own Penn-Ohio rec
ord (5:04.3) and set a new Tech 
pool record in the 440 freestyle, 
fie was followed by McClintic 
(GC) (5:17.3) and Tom Vandersilm of Tech (5:19.7) who broke 
fiis own school record by .4 sec>nds, the first Tech record of the 
kear.
Grove City captured both re
lays, the medley (4:13.9) and 400 
[iestyle (3:43.6). Slippery Rock
Sbassi!k
otel
WEBSTER HALL 
___ . _ ...... ......
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
ebster Hall on your 
:lose-to-campus entertainlent schedule.
Wefwteft -Ha1i
05 Fifth Avanu* Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
CWbWePndWMc UO9sbnyWa .M88kk
placed second in each. ODonnell I Strasen in the 200 breaststroke 
(W-2:17.6), a double winner cap- j took fifth places. Sixth places 
tured the 220 freestyle; Catalano j were captured by Strasen in the 
(GC-34.5) won the 50 freestyle; i 200 individual nfedley, Brunson in
Carnegie Techs Tartans, exhib- ; tion, but the strategy backfired 
iting rarer form in their season ' and Geneva managed to hold on
and Livermore (GC-341.1 points) 
took the diving. Other firsts were 
taken by Raupach (GC-2:23.6) in 
the 200 backstroke, and Madden 
(SR-2:36.5) in the 200 breaststroge his second victory.
Carnegie Tech placed in all but 
one individual event, but their 
failure to place more than one 
man in any event cost them the 
few points that were needed to 
capture fourth or third place in 
the meet. Vandersalm captured 
the only third in the 440 free 
style. Fourth places were tagen by 
Vandersalm in the 220 freestyle 
and Kantrowitz in the 220 butter
fly. Oldfield in the diving and
finale, gave the Golden Tornado 
of Geneva College a scare before 
bowing, 71-69, at the Tech Gym 
on Thursday, March 1. Senior Co
captain Don Perrotta and junior 
Joe Laird, along with freshman 
Julian Borkowski led the second 
half drive that missed giving Tech 
its fifth win of the year by only 
two points.
The first half was uneventful, 
with Tech falling behind due to 
the rebounding and scoring of 
Genevas Dick Witherite, and 
their own inability to hit the 
200 backstroke. In the opening j basket. At the half, the Tartans 
relay, Lester, Wachtel, Kantro- ; were down by eleven, 36-25. 
witz and Burt placed fourth, los- : Paced by Borowski, who sank
ing third place to Fenn by less ; five straight overhand set shots 
than .1 seconds. The team of ' from long ranee, the Tartans 
Kowach, Rubin, Vandersalm and ! caught Geneva midway in the 
Brunson finished fourth in the second half, and the two teams
the 100 freestyle, and Lester in the
final relay.
Tech closes its season against 
Case, next Saturday, March 10 at 
Tech at 2 p.m. This meet, which 
was postponed on February 24, 
will be the last meet for senior 
co-captains Tom Vandersalm and
traded baskets until three min
utes were left in the game. At this 
point a basket off the fast break 
by the visitors Jim Jackson put 
Geneva ahead to stay, and Tech 
had to resort to the half-court 
zone press to try and catch up.
Steve Strasen, and seniors Joe 1 With 16 seconds left and the score 
Oldfield, Ken Kantrowitz, and Ira 171-69, Perrotta missed the second 
Rubin. i shot of a one and one foul situafor their two point victory.
As has been the case in the
past, Tech actually sank more
field goals 27-24, but lost at the 
foul line wiiere they converted 
only 15 of 26 tries, compared to 
Genevas 23 for 28.
With the victory Geneva closed 
the season with a 9-15 record.
Tech ended with a 4-21 log.
TECH
FGFTPFPTS
McGeary0151
Niedra0000
Brosius3046
Perrotta66218
Laird4028
Werronen3117
Borkowski106326
Foels0101
Ritchie0010
Rizzo1002
37151869
McMahon
GENEVA 
5 0310
Witherite5419
Croud710324
Jackson62214
Tata ila1032
Close0010
Pupi0222
24231871
A good sword nowadays is hard to fmdand in olden times, too. Many a 
feudal lord saw it pointless to joust with a faulty halberd, and for worthy steel 
alone the Visigoths sacked Rome,
Today, centuries later, the search for stronger steels goes on. And among those 
making most dramatic strides in advancing the state of the metallurgical art 
are the research teams at Ford's Scientific Laboratory in Dearborn, Michigan,
In exploring the world of microstructure," these scientists, using methods of 
extreme sophistication, have been able to look at iron and steel on a nearatomic scale. They have discovered secrets of nature leading to new processing 
techniques which yield steels of ultra-high strength unknown a decade ago.
The promise of such'techniques seems limitless. As man develops the needs 
and means to travel more swiftly on earth and over interplanetary reaches 
wherever economy of weight and space is requiredstrength of physical 
materials will become paramount. This is another example of how Ford is gaining 
leadership through scientific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCT* fON THK AMERICAN ROAD  THI FARM 
 INDUSTRY  AMD THf ACC Or PACK
Wednesday, March 7, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 11
Tech Scares Tornados 
In Basketball Game

---------------------------------------------------

Pet It  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. March 7, 1962
ATO Surprises The Royal League 
Action In The Warrior League Dull
In the ROYAL LEAGUE the triple elimination tour
nament for second place continued as ATO T won two 
contests; BTP won one; SAE lost two and DU lost one. It 
was ATO T that handled the leagues upsets this week, 
as they surprised DU A 41-34, and toppled SAE by a 32- 
24 score. Portis 10 points against SAE and Olsens and 
Robinsons 12 each against DU A were sufficient to make 
the author eat his words from last weeks article (predict
ing that ATO T would be battling for league un-suprem
acy). The Betas victory over the Architects gave them 
the opportunity to claim the second place slot for this week. 
Even though second place has not been definitely clinched, 
it seems certain that Vulcan W will finish first in the 
Royal League. They kept up their 70 point per game ave
rage as they defeated SAE 75-47,?--------------------------------------------------
despite the fact that they played leading them to a 53-36 win over
without two of their regulars, Lang 
and Loepp. Dobbs and Shaw top
ped the Vulcans scoring with 24 
and 19 points, respectively; Jones 
had 12 for SAE.
Jumping now to the other 
round-robin league, the CEL
TIC LEAGUE, we find that once 
again the highly touted TDP 
Blues wTere submerged, this time 
by the Warriors 38-31. It was 
freshman Jerry Flynn leading the 
Warriors with 18 points, while 
Skowran kept the Tau Delts within 
striking distance by hitting for 15.
Last week also saw DTD finally 
break its losing string by dropping j vuiLn M 
Vulcan M 44-34, but then start 
a new one by losing to BSR 38-30.
Miller led the Delts in both games 
by scoring 16 and 17 points. Andy 
Freedman was high for BSR with 
19, while Bednarz and Canzano led 
the big M with 10 and 9 re
spectively. The Met Grads con
tinued their winning ways as WilATO D.
MAJORS
Royals
Vulcan W 
BTP A" 
ATO T 
SAE
DU AArchitects
ATO A 
KS A 
Vulcan B' 
PKA A 
Flyers 
TX
DU C
Met Grads
Warriors
BSR
TDP  Blue 
DU B
Vulcan G"
Grad Eagles
SN
PKT
Plebes
KS B"
BTP C"MINORS
Piston
Delts J 
PKT J 
TDP J
E. E. Grads 
Elbows Coins 
ATO D 
Heavies 
SAE J
SN J
Whales 
KS Owls-* 
I PKA Bson scored 18 to lead them in a j Dunkers 
35-21 trouncing of DU B.
Compared to the previous two 
leagues, the action in the WAR
RIOR LEAGUE was rather dull.
KS A collected another victory 
via a DU C forfeit, while ATO 
A crushed the Flyers 58-32.
Tommy Huff led the ATOs by 
dropping in 18 points; Mink scored 
10 for the Flyers. The only other 
action in the league saw Vulcan 
B clinch third place by dump
ing TX 48-26 and PKA A 39-22.
Oakes and Adams (Who??) had 10 
apiece against TX; Bill Slama had j 
12 for TX. Oakes also scored 11 I 
against PKA "A.
In the LAKER LEAGUE both 
SN and Vulcan G added another 
victory to their unblemished rec
ords as they both defeated BTP 
B\ Williards 16 points led SN i 
in their 46-16 conquest; but 
Browne of the Betas outdid him j 
proportionatelyhe had 13/16 of j 
his teams points. A1 Rolnik led 
Vulcan G in their 46-39 victory ! 
over BTP B by tallying 19 1 
points. Once again Browne led the 
Betas; this time with 14. PKT j 
batted .500 last week by defeat
ing KS B  50-44 and then drop
ping a 45-39 game to the Plebes.
Lang played well for the Phi Kaps, 
hitting for 19 against KS 4iB.
However, he just barely nosed out 
hustlin  Hanushek who led the 
Clyde Street brigade with 18.
IN THE MINORS
In the PISTON LEAGUE the 
Whales took a very firm grip on 
first place as they ran their league 
record to 4-0 at the expense of the 
Dunkers 34-27 and PKT J 43- 
36. Carey led the Whales against 
the Dunkers with 10, while Cowen 
scored 12 when they downed PKT 
J. Luckily for the Whales, the 
Dunkers Perry Hull had an off 
night; Zabrenski, however, fared 
much better as he hit for 16 in 
the PKT J loss. The only other 
league action saw the KS Owls 
drop their first game of the sea
son to PKA B 20-11.
The previously unbeaten Corns 
dropped two in KNICK LEAGUE 
action; one to the Heavies 37-26 
and another to the EE Grads 55- 
24. However, they were up against 
some rather stiff competition as 
Heacox of the Heavies poured in 
21 points and the EE Grads
Holmes tallied 20. The Elbows re
mained undefeated as Hranica and 
Hill scored 14 points each while
30
31
22
22
X3
04
40
40
41
23
13
04
04
40
40
32
22
13
14
04
40
30
30
23
23
04
04
40
11
22
12
12
12
01
30
20
22*>2
12
01
03
IBMWILLINTERVIEWMARCH
21-22
hark: euRiuuN is gn the vm...
t
to explain what our STOPH means to all sizes and shapes of 
graduating seniors. (Hint: its a key word that stands for the 
five factors you consider most important in selecting a job.)
Our man will be in the Placement Office on
MARCH 20, 1962
Avoid the crush. Sign up now for your appointment.
THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANY
A investor-owned electric utility serving; the best location in the nation 
CLEVELAND, OHIO
R. W. Paulin, Branch Manager 
IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 
421 7th Ave.
Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Phone: CO 1 6880
IBM You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
O
Candidates fcr Bachelors or Masters De
grees are invited to discuss opportunities in:
Engineering and Sales
This is a unique opportunity to find out about 
the many career opportunities at IBM. The 
IBM representative can discuss with you typ
ical jobs, various training programs, chances 
for advanced education, financial rewards, 
and company benefitsall important factors 
that affect your future.
SOME FACTS ABOUT IBM
An Unusual Growth Story: IBM has had one 
of the exceptional growth rates in industry. It 
has been a planned growth, based on ideas 
and products having an almost infinite appli
cation in our modern economy.
Diverse and Important Products: IBM devel
ops, manufactures and markets a wide range 
of products in the data processing field. IBM 
computers and allied products play a vital 
role in the operations of business, industry, 
science, and government.
Across-the-Country Operations: Laboratory 
and manufacturing facilities are located in
Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, 
Vestal, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vermont; 
Lexington, Ky.; San Jose, Calif.; Bethesda, 
Md.; and Rochester, Minn. Headquarters is 
located in New York City with sales and serv
ice offices in 180 major cities throughout the 
United States.
The Accent is on the Individual: No matter 
what type of work a person does at IBM, he 
is given all the responsibility he is able to 
handle, and all the support he needs to do 
his job. Advancement is by merit.
The areas in which IBM is engaged have an 
unlimited future. This is your opportunity to 
find out what that future has to offer you. All 
qualified applicants will be considered for 
employment without regard to race, creed, 
color or national origin.
Your placement officer can help you to learn 
more about IBM. He can give you literature 
describing the many career fields at IBM. He 
will arrange an appointment for you with the 
IBM representative. If you cannot attend an 
interview, write or call the manager of the 
nearest IBM office: '
