CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 4 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1962
Candidates Compete 
For Festival Queen
On Friday, October 5, sixty freshman women gathered 
in the Wherrett Room in Skibo to nominate and elect candi
dates for Fall Festival Queen and court. Seven girls were 
elected as candidates. They are:
SUSAN SCHUMACHER of 1162^-----------------------------------------------------
S. Negley Ave. Susan is a History 
major at Tech. She was graduated 
from the Ellis School where she
was active in drama, girls sports, 
the religious group, and the cur
rent events club. So far, Susan 
likes Techs campus and is inter
ested in working with the Com
munity Chest and Scotch n Soda. 
She thinks her courses here are 
interesting because of the think 
for yourself approach which is 
employed at Tech.
CHARLOTTE KISS of Cleve
land, Ohio. Charlotte is a P&D 
planning to major in sculpture. 
She was graduated from a girls 
academy in St. Louis, Missouri. 
While in high school, Charlotte 
was active in the school choir, 
Triple Trio, swim team, hockey, 
and school paper. Here at Tech 
she belongs to the Cameron Choir. 
She thinks that the upperclass 
Tech students give the freshman 
a wrong impression of Techs 
school spirit  they indoctrinate 
the freshman with apathy before
the frosh have a chance to become 
apathetic on their own.
VOLUM EV5MMONB from 
Barrington, Rhode Island. Carol is 
a drama acting major and plans 
to receive her masters degree be
fore attempting the New York 
stage. In high school she was a 
cheerleader, on the yearbook 
staff, a member of the literary 
club and active in girls sports. 
Her activities at Tech include 
crew for the main stage produc 
tions in the drama dept. She likes 
the friendly atmosphere at Tech, 
but dislikes the discrimination be 
tween departments.
.^5ALLY MORLEY, also an act
ing major. Sally, however, is in
terested in pursuing graduate 
work in directing and producing. 
She is from Beverly Hills, Cali
fornia, and in high school was on 
the Class Council and in the 
French Club. Her activities at 
Tech, like Carols, include crew. 
She likes water skiing and tennis 
[continued on page 7]
J.C. Warner Announces 
T ech-ChathamP rogr am
Successful Fraternity Rush 
Ends With Over 200 Pledges
Carnegie Tech and Chatham 
College have initiated this se
mester a cooperative study pro
gram to offer more courses to stu
dents enrolled at both institutions. 
The agreement, which was con
firmed last summer by President 
Warner and President Eddy, al
lows students to take only those 
courses not offered on their re
spective campuses.
No extra tuition is required to 
take part in the program. Stu
dents, however, must have per
mission from their department 
heads or deans of their colleges. 
Transfer credit will be accepted 
by the college in which the stu
dent is enrolled, and will be ap
plied toward his undergraduate 
degree.
Examples of the type of courses 
offered for exchange at Chatham 
include study in the fields of phil
osophy, sociology, anthropology, 
political science, religion, and 
classical languages. Tech offers 
such courses as art education 
(methods and materials), eco
nomics, physics, mathematics, 
and computer operations.
Commentin0 on the exchange 
program, Dr. Warner said, Car
negie Tech is delighted to coop
erate with Chatham in this agree
ment. It promises educational ad
vantages to qualified students in 
both institutions as well as the 
personal stimulation of working in 
a different academic environ
ment.
Dr. Eddy pointed out that, This 
Pittsburgh exchange program is 
a pioneering step. It differs from 
the usual pattern of exchange be
tween colleges in other states and
cities where cooperative programs 
exist among institutions with the 
same aim and programs. This new 
exchange between Tech and Chat
ham finds a college strictly devot
ed to the liberal arts with no spe
cial professional emphasis coop
erating with an institution which 
is world renowned for its em
phasis on higher quality profes
sional training and orientation. 
Both presidents explained that 
the new program will operate on a 
basis of mutual faith and trust be
tween the two schools and will not 
be complicated by additional ad
ministrative machinery. The pro
gram will be evaluated fully in 
three years, when it will be de
cided how to further broaden the 
present agreement. It is possible 
that opportunities will arise in 
which it would be advantageous 
to both institutions to expand the 
program into additional academic 
areas.
Scaife Dedication
President Warner cordially in
vites all Carnegie Students to the 
Dedication of Alan M. Scaife Hall 
of Engineering. This new and im
portant addition to our campus 
will be formally dedicated on 
October 17, 1962, at 11:15 p.m.
To make attendance possible at 
the dedication ceremonies, all 
10:30 a.m. classes on Wednesday, 
October 17, will terminate at 11:10 
a.m. and there will be no 11:30 
a.m. classes.
It is hoped that as many stu
dent as possible will take advan
tage of this opportunity to partici
pate in the dedication ceremony.
The ATO's welcome a new pledge in a 
typical scene on pledging night.
New C Books 
To Go On Sale 
October 22nd
Corrections for the 1962-63 CBok, published by Alpha Phi 
Omega, are now being accepted 
at Box 282, campus mail. If you 
have changed your address, tele
phone number, or other informa
tion since filling out your IBM 
registration cards, please send the 
corrected information to Alpha 
Phi Omega before October 19, 
1962.
The new C-Books should be on 
sale by October 22, 1962. This is 
the earliest possible distribution 
date due to the long process in
volved in printing a correct list 
of names, addresses and other 
data after registration. The IBM 
cards are collected and sent to 
the printer who must make addi
tions and corrections before set
ting the type and pulling the first 
proof. The C-Book printer is 
now in the process of setting the 
type. The first proof and the 
IBM cards are then compared for 
acuracy before the final printing. 
An additional sheet containing 
late additions and corrections will 
be included with each C Book.
GSIA Professor 
Hazard to Speak 
Ethics and Gov*t
In next weeks Tuesday assem
bly hour Professor Leland Hazard 
of G.S.I.A. will speeak on Our 
National GoalsWill We Make 
the Hard Choices Among Them?
This is the second of a series 
of two talks presented in the as
sembly hour on government and 
ethics. The first was given yes
terday by Dr. Franklin Lettell.
Mr. Hazard has published arti
cles on economics, unions, and 
management in several national 
magazines. He is a member of 
the Allegheny Conference on 
Community Development, director 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony So
ciety and chairman of television 
station WQED.
Before coming to Tech, Pro
fessor Hazard attended William 
Jewel College and University of 
Missouri where he received his
A.B.; he also attended Harvard 
Law School and the University of 
Chicago.
The completion of fraternity 
rush at 5:00 p.m. on October 1, 
signaled the end of one of the 
most successful rushes ever staged 
on the Tech campus.
Over four hundred freshman 
men participated in the CFD spon
sored tours of each house. Of 
these, the majority returned for 
the other rush events.
The fraternities and their new 
pledges are:
ATO: Richard Arnold, Alan
Babich, Joseph Bevevino, James 
Brownrigg, Randy French, Al 
Green, P. J. Greico, James Hagarman, Michael Hanback, Bruce 
Handley, Ken Herrholz, William 
Huston, Gene Laneri, Robert Mc
Clain, Robert McGearv, James 
Newell, Joseph Pagliaro, James 
Pope, Ray Rieser, Philip Roach, 
Henry Sagalini, Joseph Schmitt, 
John Snyder, Louis Stevens.
BTP: Philip Beauregard, James 
Beck, John Bennett, Bruce Berberich, Richard Bostleman, Fred 
utcher. William Chappelle, Ronald 
DeFeo, Anthony DeFilippo, 
Thomas Duran, Stephen Easley, 
David Gallo, Thomas Gray, Dale 
Johnson, Joseph Kownacki, Eu
gene Labbette, Jack Lindberg, 
Chris Macosko, William Merrill, 
Douglass Miller, Richard Morri
son. Robert Nolan, John Parker, 
Peter Riccardella, Fred Stone, 
John Turko, George Wratney.
BSR: Donald Buchsbaum, Alan 
Cohen, Murray Eisenberg, John 
Everson, Stuart Fleischman, Har
ris Freidman, Elliot Goldberg, 
Benson Goldstein, Mel Herwald, 
Richard Hochhauser, Ralph Katz, 
George Klein, David Miller, 
Stephen Rosenblatt, Lee Rothlein, Roger Schank. Richard 
Schwartz, Alan Slate, Richard 
Smith, Arthur Stern, Lloyd Syd
ney.
DTD: Joseph Baier. Robert
[continued on page 2]
There will be a regular 
meeting of Student Congress 
on Wednesday, October 16,
1962, at 4:30 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Lounge of Skibo. 
AII freshmen who are inter
ested in participating in Con
gress Activities are invited to 
attend.
Factors Show 
Greeks Are 
Still On Top
Beta Sigma Rho leads the fra
ternities while the Alpha Epsilon 
Phis top the sorority seven ac
cording to last semester's factors 
which are as follows:
Fraternity
Beta Sigma Rho ......................2.520
Sigma Nu ................................2.482
Beta Theta Pi ..........................2.467
Theta Xi ..................................2.408
Kappa Sigma ............................2.360
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..........2.283
Alpha Tau Omega ................2.282
Phi Kappa Theta ....................2.256
Pi Kappa Alpha ......................2.245
Tau Delta Phi ..........................2.230
Delta Upsilon ............................2.226
Delta Tau Delta ......................2.206
Sorority
Alpha Epsilon Phi ....................2.847
I Delta Delta Delta ....................2.821
I Kappa Alpha Theta ................2.806
i Kappa Kappa Gamma..........2.801
Delta Gamma 
Chi Omega .. 
Sigma Kappa
All Mens___
CAA Women's 
CAA School ..
.2.751
.2.732
.2.718
.2.370
.2.705
.2.470

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 10, 1962
Library Opens 
Suggestion Box 
For Students
In accordance with its program 
to have library policy conform as 
closely as possible to the needs 
and desires of the student body, 
the Hunt Library has installed a 
suggestion box on the first floor 
bulletin board. Ideas for im
proved library service, specific re
quests concerning use of the li
brary facilities, and especially 
suggestions for books to be added 
to the collection are all welcome. 
Each suggestion must include the 
name of the person submitting it. 
It is hoped that students will use 
the suggestion box freely so that 
their ideas may be made Known 
to the library administration.
Bank Displays 
Calligraphy 
Of Alphabet
The Department of Fine Arts is 
presenting an exhibition of the 
work of Arnold Bank entitled 
"Twenty-five Calligraphies: The
Alphabet. The exhibit which is 
in the Treasure Room on the bal
cony of Sculpture Court, will con
tinue through November 18.
Most of the works on exhibition 
are begun from considerations of 
the alphabet or some aspect of the 
alphabet, in the moments when 
the adphabet itself is realized as a 
form far greater than the words 
and the word images it conven
tionally produces, when the imag- , 
ination is stirred by the very 
shapes of the letters, or by the 
unique sequences of their posi
tions and groupings. Some are be
gun from thoughts of their inti-) 
mate association with the forces of 
language, literature, history and 
art. All are united by some aspect | 
of decoration, or the tools and 
techniques, sometimes by super
imposition or inter-lacing.
Mr. Banks studies in the his
tory of writing and printing types 
have led to the scholarly research 
in the field of technical paleog
raphy. He is known for his calli
graphic and graphic design work 
in the fields of publishing, adver
tising, printing and architectural 
lettering.
Mr. Bank joined the faculty of 
Carnegie Tech in 1960 as Associ
ate Professor of Graphic Arts. He 
has taught at Pratt Institute Art j 
School, Columbus University, j 
Cooper Union, Reed College, the j 
Art Students League and was j 
visiting lecturer at the School of j 
Graphic Design, Royal College of 
Art, London.
BULLETIN 
BOARD
Sorority Rush
If interested in sorority rush at 
all, please sign the pink slips in 
Dean Milligans office immediately.
Tech Greeks Gleefully Absorb 
Rushing Freshman As Pledges
Activities Clubs
The Tech Activities Club is the 
organization which will provide 
you and your date with a widely 
varied schedule of active social 
events  havrides, skating, 
square dancing, and picnics.
Membership is open to any Tech 
day student, graduate students are 
| also welcomed. Dues are only $1 
a semester. Tickets for each event 
will then be sold only to members. 
Tickets will be less than SI.50 
per couple. This wTay members 
will not pay for events they do 
not attend.
A swimming party at Tech pool, 
Sat. Oct. 13, at 8:30 p.m. is the 
first scheduled event. Refresh
ments will be served afterwards. 
Tickets for this event are only 
$1.00 per couple with a merhber| ship card. Advance reservations 
are required.
For further information about 
I the party or organization contact 
| Sandy Lancaster, WA. 1-7113 or 
Paul Dobosh, MU. 2-8959, or leave 
your name and phone number at 
Box 268, Campus Mail.
The following week, October 23rd, 
Professor Gerald Thompson of 
GSIA will be the speaker.
United Campus Fellowship
Dr. George Mark Ellis will talk 
with the United Campus Fellow
ship this Sunday, October 14, at 
7:00 P.M., in the chapel, in room 
39, Skibo. Dr. Ellis will discuss 
the differences and similarities 
between liberal and profes
sional education.
Viv Recordings
All those wishing to purchase 
records of the Scotch and Soda 
production Viv may do so by 
sending their name, phone, and 
address to Scotch and Soda, Cam
pus Mail. Those who have already 
purchased records and have not 
picked them up should do the 
same.
Hash and Rehash
Professor Robert Rothfus of the 
Department of Chemical Engi
neering will continue the week
ly Hash and Rehash sessions 
sponsored by the YMCA and 
YWCA, held Tuesday, October 16, 
from 12:30-1:20 in Room 107 Ski
bo second floor dining room. 
Those interested may bring their 
tray or sack lunch for a short 
presentation of an idea by Pro
fessor Rothfus, followed by gen
eral conversation on the subject.
Thistle
The 62 Thistle will be avail
able to students starting Thurs
day, October 18. Anyone who has 
already bought the yearbook may 
pick it up at the Thistle table, 
opposite the Registrars office in 
Administration Hall. A limited 
supply of extra copies will be 
available at $7, and may be pur
chased from any yearbook sales 
representative.
Intercollegiate Dance
Intercollegiate Dance 
Skibo
October 13, 1962 8:30 p.m.
Featuring Walt Harper 
Admission $1.00 per person 
Sponsored by 
Pitts Newman Club
[continued from page I] 
Boeckman, Frank Bowie, James 
Chokey, Richard Crum, Darryl 
Degelman, Jackson Earley, Robert 
Hammond, Harold Hughes, Ronald 
Konnick, Thomas Millea, Allen 
Navotnik, Robert Salter, Jerome 
, Styrsky.
DU: Robert Barsumian, Thomas 
| Bednarz, Herd DAlo, Serantos 
Dukaz, Louis Golumb, Michael 
Gross, William Hofer, Lynn John
son, Gordon Kertzel ,Gary Leach, 
Vernon Leicht, John Lombardo, 
Ray Matuza, Frank Morra, Robert 
Rosche, David Sawchak, Robert 
Schwartz, Donald Solow, Len Wisniski.
Theta Xi: David Sinclair.
KS: Donald Beynon, Carl Clark, 
Robert Elsesser, Ronald Hill, Ivan 
Kunic, Jon Lamb, Joseph Shaughnessy, Richard Sumner, James 
Viccaro, Charles Walker.
PTK: Wallace Block, Robert
Daley, Edward Grana, Stephen 
Horodyski, John Klosowski, James 
Kratofil, James Leone, Daniel Parietti, Harold Pool, Paul Richard, 
Anthony Scambati, Joseph Schi| binger.
PiKA: Kenneth Adler, David
Allshouse, Thomas Allen, Joseph 
Bowman, Grady Clay, Kenneth 
Donnelly, Michael Emerson, Ro
bert Frascarelli, William Godoski, 
Leroy Gunner, Richard Hack, 
David Henderson, Douglass Hund
ley, Brian Joos, Charles Kauf
mann, Timothy Keener, Jack Kurdock, Elliott Milstein, Robert 
Petersen, Stanley Perper, Andrew 
Ponzini, Theodore Skiba, William 
Suhie, Louis Zaera.
SAE: Robert Cooper, Douglass 
Cranwell, Michael Demarco, Leo 
Fox, Gerald Friedman, Charles 
Hayweiser, Newton Horr, A1 Humensky, Jerry Jim, Walter Ken
nedy, Stephen Kubisak, Patrick 
McBurnett, Ronald Nelson, Don
ald Ptiman, Stuart Sidells, Richard 
Stout, John Walesky.
SIGMA NU: Alan Aber, Thomas 
Chamberlain, Paul Davidson, 
Douglass Draucker, Gary Fiedler, 
John Frank, Robert Fritz, William 
Frye, David Gerwig, Tom Glassburg, Hall Hanson, Robert Hor
vath, John Huber, William Jack 
son, William McClure, J. E. Miller, 
Monti Mordecai, Allan Pollock, 
Charles Reichner, Sherman Scott, 
Walter Stroud, John Weiler, Barry 
Westerland, Robert Wohlford.
TDP: Carl Ballay, Jay Brad
bury, Anthony Berges, Stephen 
Berlin, Donald Berkowitz, Robert 
Caulk, Thomas Ference, Neal 
Huguley, Peter Jacobson, Tod 
Johnson, Richard Lane, Frank 
Lefkin, John Lieberman, Mere
dith Long, Martin Oring, Richard 
Philips, John Piscitelli, Barry Pogatch, Frederic Posternak, Steph
en Sadacca, Gerald Slavin, Ken
neth Solmon, John Ward, Stephen 
Weinreich, Stephen Weiss, Ronald 
Werrin.
Scotch n Soda
Scotch n Soda needs YOU . . . 
if you are talented, healthy and 
rich ... or ... if you can write 
songs or scripts. All interested 
persons contact Scotch n Soda, 
Campus Mail.
Discussion Group
Who is the Lord of the Flies?
What causes the decay of civili
zation?
How can power be rightfully 
restored to the able?
These questions and others that 
arise in the reading of William 
Goldings Lord of the Flies will 
be discussed at the first meeting 
of the Informal Discussion Group. 
Students and faculty are invited 
to participate Monday, October 
15, at 7:30 p.m. in Skibo Party 
Room. Refreshments will be 
served.
RNE NGIST RNAU^X~ Lenny Litman 
presentsy an evening with
The Kingston Trio
IN PERSON
SYRIA MOSQUE 
Saturday Night 
8:30 P.M;
Tickets S3.50  OFHLY e OnH50. Now on sale nN Oakland yT the National 
Record Mart. Also downtown at National Record Mart on Diamond St., 
Sam Goodys and Horne's. For Mail orders write and make check or 
money orders payable to Shows, Inc., 211 Carlton House, Pittsburgh 19, Pa., 
enclosing self-addressed stamped envelope.
Saweom Enterprizes Prod.
All persons, living on 
campus, who are interested 
in working on the business 
staff of
THE
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
in a position of responsi
bility and who can devote 
1-2 hours per WEEK. 
Please Call MU. 2-4557 
and leave name and tele
phone number and the 
times you can be reached.
script ravinij
o Positive Identification;
For Slide Rule$
Jewelry, Lighters, and 
fountan pens engraved
3 Sc  $1
nNitGmE
C.l.T. Bookstore cashier
Rm aBnn
1-84871
Add
... up the amount of money you pay for per
sonal checks a year. More than you thought? 
You can save that much with a free personal 
checking account at Union National Bank. 
Just keep a $200 minimum balance, and theres 
no meter, item or maintenance charge. Over a 
year, your savings are considerable. For details, 
stop in today at any convenient office.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
KGISTEEN PRN.ENGENT DRxyTGRN' C sRt PyN oyNu rGTS p' oU dyTT
fMwd hw. IpMM
We all make mistakes...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATONS CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied 
behind your backits easy to turn out perfect papers 
on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. 
Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of 
an ordinary pencil eraser.Theres never a telltale erasure 
mark on Corrasables special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, 
medium, heavy weights and Onion 
Skin. In convenient 100-sheet 
packets and 500-sheet ream 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
Corrasable. , ***/>
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
KChck gCgKl PclgclChnck GKM gnhhOwnKDb dCOOH

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 10, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
Tech Receives 6 Research GrantsFilm Arts To Present
Birth of a Nationi
and present, to be the most imKenneth E. Moyer, professor of 
psychology, will continue his 
study of Adrenal Glands and
by associate professor Loren G. 
Hepler in the field of Ther
modynamics of Aqueous Organic
Carnegie Techs Film Arts So
ciety will exhibit this Thursday, 
as part of its new fall series, an 
extra-ordinary motion picture. It 
\s a film that is considered by 
virtually all major critics, past
Advisors 
To Meet, Confer 
With Facilities
Five of Techs Visiting Com
mittees will hold meetings during 
October.
Each committee will spend an 
entire day on the campus in ses
sions with the faculty members 
and head of the department con
cerned. The Visiting Committees 
for the department of chemistry 
and chemical engineering met on 
Monday, October 8; the Visiting 
Committee for the Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College will meet 
on Thursday, October 11; the 
Visitinj* Committee for the de
partment of graphic arts will 
meet on Friday, October 26.
The Visiting Committee pro
gram, established in September, 
1961, has two major aims; to 
bring national figures in close re
lationship with the activities of 
all departments and divisions of 
Carnegie Tech; and to secure the 
aid of these committees, their 
committees, their counsel and 
fresh viewpoints, in achieving the 
objectives of Carnegie.
Chairman of the committees to 
be on campus are: for Chemistry, 
Sidney Swensrud, formerly chair
man for the board, Gulf Oil Cor
poration; for chemical engineer
ing, John E. Swearingen, presi
dent, Standard Oil Company of 
Indiana, Chicago; co-chairman for 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege, Alfred S. Andrews, presi
dent, Andrews, Bartlett and Asso
ciates, Cleveland, and Walter J. 
Blenko, Sr. All of the chairmen 
are members of Techs board of 
trustees.
Price To Speak
Cedric Price, British artchitect 
and lecturer in town planning, 
will be at the Tech campus on Oc
tober 10 to deliver a lecture on 
Architecture in a 20th Century 
Society  its potential, responsi
bilities and form. The program 
is sponsored by the department 
of architecture.
The lecture will be given at 
8:00 p.m., October 10 in the audi
torium of the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration on 
the Carnegie 'Jcch campus.
FURNITURE AND RUG 
SPECIALS
9 x 12 Rugrs with or withoutfoam .....................................$20
Beautiful 9 x 12 Wool and
Nylon Rugs ......................$39
100% Nylon Rugs ................$35
Butterfly Chairs ....................$10
Large Cane Chairs ..............$860-in. Imported Slat
Benches ..............................$11
Italian. Chiavari Chairs,Rush seats ..........................$12
Foam Sit-n-Sleep Lounges
15 Color Variations ........$19
End and Cocktail Tables,
Walnut Finish ....................$8
Table Lamps. Three waySwitch ..................................$5
Desk Chairs ............................$7
CHASE'S
5432 Walnut St.. Shadyside 
Daily 10 A.M. - 5 P.M.
Eves, except Sat. f-FY,W-YY p.m.
portant film produced in the his
tory of motion pictures.
THE BIRTH OF A NATION 
made in 1915, was the first fea
ture length motion picture. Since 
it was prior to the era of the 
talkies is was presented with 
a full symphony orchestra. It con
cerns the events leading up to, 
during, and after the Civil War.
David Wark Griffith ,the direc
tor of BIRTH OF A NATION, 
used the machinery of the mo
tion picture, the camera, and 
techniques and experiences of 
others, to produce the only new 
art form of the twentieth century. 
In Griffiiths film we find all of 
the techniques used today in mo
vies, and some that are still ahead 
of our time. Consequently, it is 
still one of the most exciting pic
tures made.
THE BIRTH OF A NATION is 
the third in the new Fall series 
of Film Arts. Showings are held 
each Thursday in Porter Hall 100 
at 4:30, 7:0o, and 9:30. Season 
tickets are still available.
Tech recently received over 
$140,000 in research grants and 
contracts from the National Sci
ence Foundation.
Three of the awards are for 
new projects to begin this fall 
and three are renewals of re
search projects already in pro
gress at Carnegie Tech.
The largest of the grants, $38,- 
200, has been awarded by the 
NSF for research in the field of 
Chemical Reactions in Turbulant Flow. The new project will 
be under the direction of Her
bert L. Toor, professor of chemi
cal engineering. Almost $30,000 
has been awarded to the Metals 
Research Laboratory for the con
tinuance of a study in Synthesis 
of 3 Substituted Pyrrolidine De
rivatives. This project is under 
the guidance of Philip L. Southwick, professor of chemistry.
A new grant of $22,500 has 
been made by the NSF to the de
partment of electrical engineering 
for research in Statistical Esti
mation Methods in Time-Optimal 
Control Systems, directed by 
William H. Pierce, assistant pro
fessor of electrical engineering.
Emotional Behavior, supported 
by a grant of approximately $21,- 
500 from NIH.
Another NIH award of $15,000 
went to the department of chem
istry for a new project directed
Acids. George Bugliarello, as
sistant professor of civil engi
neering, will continue his study 
of Phase Separation Effects on 
the Flow of Blood, supported by 
another $15,000 from NIH.
vs* w m m m m we w w w
It's your 
tapered shape 
and your 
hopsacking look 
that get me...
^X~p r^e snt Ra^ Ra^
%#IIiiI1II1i1iII11ii
Mother always 
told me to
look for the blue label*
S'-&e of Ctz*tij6rn4- \ 
i S
Nobodys really suggesting romance will be yours if you wear 
U.S. Keds.But it is true that Keds are the best-fitting, the most 
comfortable, good-looking and long-wearing fabric casuals you 
can buy. Because Keds are made with costlier fabrics. With an 
exclusive shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned innersole. 
In short, with all those extras" that make them your best buy 
in the long run. Head for your nearest Keds dealer. Get that 
Keds look, that Keds fit...GET THAT GREAT KEDS FEELING!
dWiNO AIpI TGEP rBE NOG SCmG CrSGC ruG uGaFPNGuGE NurEGvruoP ic
United States Rubber
Rack*Her Center, New York 20. New York
On Campus MaxShuJman
(Author of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
HAPPINESS CANT BUY MONEY
Can education bring happiness?
This is a question that in recent years has caused much 
lively debate and several hundred stabbings among American 
college professors. Some contend that if a students intellect 
is sufficiently aroused, happiness will automatically follow. 
Others say that to concentrate on the intellect and ignore the 
rest of the personality can only lead to misery.
I myself favor the second view, and I offer in evidence the 
well-known case of Agathe Fusco.
Agathe, a forestry major, never got anything less than a 
straight A, was awarded her B.T. (Bachelor of Trees) ia 
only two years, her M.S.B. (Master of Sap and Bark) in only 
three, and her D.B.C. (Doctor of Blight and Cutworms) ia 
only four.
Academic glory was hers. Her intellect was the envy of 
every intellect fan on campus. But was she happy? The 
answer, alas, was no. Agatheshe knew not whywas miser
able, so miserable, in fact, that one day while walking across 
campus, she w&s suddenly so overcome with melancholy that 
she flang herself, weeping, upon the statue of the Founder.
By and by a liberal arts major named R. Twinkle Plenty came 
by with his yoyo. He-noted Agathes condition. How come 
you're so unhappy, hey? said R. Twinkle.
Suppose you tell me, you dumb old liberal arts major,*!
All right, I will, said R. Twinkle. You are unhappy for 
two reasons. First, because you have been so busy stuffing 
your intellect that you have gone and starved your psyche. Ive 
got nothing against learning, mind you, but a person oughtnt 
to neglect the pleasant, 'gentle amenities of lifethe fun 
tilings. Have you, for instance, ever been to a dance?
Agathe shook her head.
Have you ever watched a sunset? Written a poem? Smoked 
a Marlboro Cigarette?
Agathe shook her head.
Well,well fix that right now!said R.Twinkle and gave her 
a Marlboro and struck a match.
She puffed, and then for the first time in twelve or fifteen 
years, she smiled. Wow! she cried. Marlboros are a fun thing! 
What flavor! What filter! What pack or l>ox! What a lot to 
like! From now on I will smoke Marlboros, and never have 
another unhappy day!
Hold! said R. Twinkle. Mariboroe alone will not solve 
your problemonly half of it. Remember I said there were 
two things making you unhappy?
Oh, yeah, said Agathe. Whats the other one?
How long have you had that bear trap on your foot?'! 
said R. Twinkle.
I stepped on it during a field trip in my freshman year,*! 
said Agathe. I keep meaning to have it taken off.
Allow me, said R. Twinkle and removed it.
Land sakes, what a relief! said Agathe, now totally happy, 
and took R. Twinkles hand and led him to a Marllx>ro vendor's 
and then to a justice of the peace.
Today Agathe is a perfectly fulfilled woman, both intellectwise and personality wise. She lives in a darling split-level 
house with R. Twinkle and their 17 children, and she still keeps 
busy in the forestry game. Only last month, in fact, she became 
Consultant on Sawdust to the American Butchers Guild, she 
was named an Honorary Sequoia by the park commissioner of 
Las Vegas, and she published a best-selling book called / wa$ 
a Slippery Elm for Uit FBI.  iw mu^wk
* * 
The makers of Marlboro are pleased that Agathe is finally 
out of the woodsand so will you be if your goal is smoking 
pleasure. Just try a Marlboro.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 10, 1962
Editorial
Heavy Doors Swing Danger
For the last two weeks the following 
statement entitled Lighter Doors has ap
peared taped to the inner doors of Admin
istration Hall:
It is hereby proposed by His Majestys 
Proposal Committee that a proposal be pre
sented to Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
proposing therein that the inner pair of 
swinging doors opening into and out of Ad
ministration Hall be considerably lightened 
to greatly facilitate pushing them a lot.
Sarcasm? Maybe so, but not all who read 
this thought so. Many students signed this 
petition with the conviction that this 
might result in some action.
The problem is one with which all Tech 
students are quite familiar, in fact our 
memories are refreshed each time we enter 
Administration Hall. We hope for warm 
weather that these massive doors might re
main open. No one cares to fight his way 
through these doors in order to get to class. 
How often have we witnessed some petite 
Miss try unsuccessfully to budge these 
giants. Cowards have been known to use a 
side entrance.
These doors are not merely an incon
venience, but- a definite safety hazard. Pity 
the poor student who tries to enter on the 
back-swing. I wonder how many sprain
ed fingers and hands this has caused. And 
then there was the student who had his 
hand bandaged for several weeks when he 
managed to get it caught between the doors.
This petition, then, can serve as the ini
tial step in having these doors changed. 
Perhaps some direct action could be taken 
by Student Congress. Lighter doors, smaller 
doors or a combination of the two would be 
a considerable improvement.
New Outlook 
90 Miles & Farther
By Stephen I. Miller
Since World War II reached its climax in the litter of 
Hirochima, we have seen the growth of a new and vigorous 
way of life. It has spread from the confines of the Siberian 
wastelands until it now includes one third of the worlds 
land masses and about one half of its population. A truly 
stunning accomplishment, one which is highly indicative 
of a young ideology with immense appeal to backward 
nations. Unfortunately it is one which stands diametrically 
opposed to ours.
In years passed we have fought it all over the world, 
risking our lives in Korea, sending supplies to Berlin, land
ing troops in Lebanon, and aiding Turkey whenever neces
sary. We have also sent millions of dollars of aid into under
developed nations, poured our troops into Loas, Vietnam, 
and Thailand, and constructed dams and industrial com
plexes everywhere. These are our two basic approaches to 
the present problem. The first could be called the hard 
and the latter the soft. In present years the latter has be
come our main mode of action. Most of our foreign policy is 
based upon holding fast where we are. This has been wide
ly acclaimed everywhere as a policy par excellance. The 
only difficulty is that it doesnt work. Our containment 
policies have been a miserable failure, while every time we 
have risen to the situation and assumed an active, antagon
istic, vigorous outlook we have met with success. To me 
this seems to point out very clearly what our future poli
cies should be.
An excellent first step is the proposed blockade of Cuba. 
Our containment tactics have permitted the location of an 
armed Communist base located only ninety miles from our 
homeland, a potential threat whose magnitude is unbound
ed. To continue along our present line of action would be 
to permit our own encirclement. The very fact of Com
munist growth shows that containment is a failure. A block
ade would be an active step which would completely 
strangle Cuba economically. Its government could in no 
way then continue in its present course. Either it would 
change or fall, there is no other course open.
This would simply be a beginning. All over the globe 
we could then start a vigorous campaign for our ideology. 
We must step out, assume the offensive, and get some type 
of constructive movement. Let us use our idle industrial 
potential and produce the machinery needed by developing 
nations. Let us advocate and back the overthrow of oppres
sive and tyrannical governments. Let us use gorilla tactics 
to our advantage and attack instead of maintaining static 
defensive positions which so frequently are overrun. Basi
cally let us show that our society is not a modern day 
Rome, decadent and dying, but rather a young, vigorous, 
active, and growing one. We must show that our ideals are 
the stronger and this must be done on all levels.
The best time for this was directly after the war but 
we still can succeed if and only if we realize that a strong 
and vigorous growth can be overcome only by one which 
is stronger and more vigorous.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Coming Elections
Readers Write
Mississippi 
Segregation 
Starts Talk
Think Before Act 
With Segregation
Editor, the Tartan
An open letter from the faculty 
and students of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology to the University 
of Mississippi has been circulation 
recently for signatures. The pur
pose of this letter is to rebuke 
those who participated in the re
cent demonstration over the ad
mission of the first Negro student 
to that University and to praise 
those who refrained from show
ing their feelings.
I am not trying to support seg
regation, or to justify the action 
taken in the recent incident. I 
am simply suggesting that those 
connected with this open letter 
look at the incident in its prop
er light before taking action.
The demonstration at the Uni
versity of Mississippi was not 
simply the result of an innocent 
endeavor of the part of a young 
Negro man to obtain higher edu
cation. It goes deeper than this. 
It was the result of a powerful 
organization, the National Asso
ciation for the Advancement of 
Colored People, arousing and pro
viding incentive for the Negro 
race in general, and James Meridith in particular, to assert them
selves. More often than not his 
assertion .is not directed mainly 
at gaining more rights for Ne
groes, but at proving to the 
caucasion that the Negro is his 
equal. This sort of action can be 
compared to the Russians de
manding that United States planes 
fly over East Germany at a cer
tain altitude. In many instances 
the Russians as well as the Ne
groes are really trying to gain 
something. In these cases they are 
simply trying to prove something 
to themselves and others. Can 
anyone stretch his imagination 
enough to believe that wil all the 
fine colleges that admit Negroes, a 
man would want to get into the 
University of Mississippi enough 
to cause the trouble James Meridiths action has caused?
This doesnt mean that integra[continued on page 5]
Americans believe the American two party system 
is the ideal way to choose officials in a democracy. Of course 
in the South a candidate for office must be conservative, in 
New York he must be liberal, in Massachusetts a Ken
nedy, ad nauseam. But these are exceptions (naturallyhow could a two party system work with only one party?)
Pennsylvania is a good example of a two party state. 
Voter registration is fairly close. As a result, the major 
parties have put forth two evenly matched candidates for^; 
governor  Dilworth and Scranton. Scranton has come 
out in favor of full employment, and Dilworth has said 
that Pennsylvania must continue moving forward. Neither 
of them has said anything intelligent yet, although the 
campaign still has almost a month to go. 1 doubt if they are 
capable, and if capable, willing, to suggest anything that 
can be discussed solely on its merits. In the Senate race 
Pennsylvanians' have a choice between Senator Clark, a 
liberal who at least can justify his beliefs, and Representa
tive Van Zandt, who recently said that most imports from 
Japan must be discontinued because the Japanese are 
throwing the American workingmen out of work. He ne
glected to mention that Japan bought over 600 million 
dollars more goods from us than we bought from them last 
year. Clark may not be the ideal senator, but at least he is 
better than Van Zandt. Most Representatives are assured 
of being re-elected; they come from safe districts  
ones that have been selected so that one party or the 
other has a large majority. The two party system does not 
necessarily demand that both parties present good candi
dates, just that they be evenly matched.
In some states the two party system does operate effi
ciently. In Idaho the voters are being given the choice be
tween a Democrat who believes in legalized gambling and 
a Republican who opposes itin spite of the two party 
system. In Massachusetts, the voters may vote for a candi
date who is running on a leftist platform (Hughes.) But 
he is running as an independent, not as a Republican or 
Democrat.
An answer to this problem would be to realign the 
political parties. One could be a combination of Republi
cans and Democrats dedicated to getting its candidates^ 
elected. The other would be dedicated to presenting capable 
nominees. Unfortunately, this is impractical (to say the 
least.) Another solution would-be to form a liberal and a 
conservative party, but this would not solve anything on 
the local level where other issues are the important ones. 
Also such parties would undoubtedly adopt platforms which 
would be too rigid, and would not allow the individual can
didate to differ much with the national party.
I have no solution to this dilemma. Perhaps in the future 
people will vote for ideasnot people or parties. Or per
haps there is a better way of selecting the people who run 
our country.
^CARNEGIE
hClhCk
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; m
Business Manager, MU. 2-98-50; Advertising Manager, MU. 2- v
9950; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annua! Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief .....................'.........Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor .................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor ........................T...........Fritz Klinke
Business Manager .........................................Miron Straf ^
News Editor ..................................................Joyce Holy 9
Assistant News Editor ..............................Margie ParkFeatures Editor ..................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor .............................................Anne MoserAdvertising Manager.........................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ....................................................John BlueLayout Editor ......................................,.. Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor ............................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor ............................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum, Colin Jones, Margie^Park, Henry Henderson, 
and B.J. Zimnewicz Layout: Fritz Klinke, Marion Mulligan, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Drew
Lippay, and A1 Pollock.News Staff: Colin Jones. Marty Moore. Fay Landau, Frank Brady. Gladys StalinElinolT, Janice Lester, Pam Leone, Marty Sauer, Chuck Steinmeyer. Judi 
Meyers, Jan Scharp. Marty Siegel. Ellen Hamill. and Nancy Adams, Peggy 
Riva, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, Cindy Wolfson.
Sports: Scott McCormick, Mike Campbell 
Photography: Rick Blackburn. Russ Steinebaugh
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenstein. Jean Cline, Susan Witt 
Circulation: Tom Johnson, George Kail and Jay Priest
Features .Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter. Jane Skeehan. Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg. Kan Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad, Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers, Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low. Matt 
Nesvisky, Matt Swetonic, Marty Sauer, Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson. 
Copy Staff: Nancy Greene, Ginny Uliss, Helen Beatty. Verna Ream, Jane
Samuels, Lynne Jenkins. Betty Milans. Letly Nuernberg, Clarita Dzatko, 
Janet Scharp, Janet Wurmb, Marlene Kostek, Nad Goldberg, and Nancy 
Cameron. M r

---------------------------------------------------

lill
cpl vF"v Ogclh !CPKhO 
GN E*xAt'G.E NE2 wyAA xRARmGNI'
The good-looking light and mediumweight tweeds of our "346 sport jackets 
are woven exclusively for us in our own 
designs and colorings...and the jackets 
themselves cut and made on our 3-button 
model with welted edges. In Glenurquhart plaids, herringbones and fancy 
stripes... featuring new soft colorings in 
browns, greys or olives, $65 and $75
Also our "5 46 worsted flannel 
Odd Trousers, jrm $26.50
Iflens FurnishingSTffata r$ho(*
600 SMITHFJELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA.
NEW YORK * BOSTON  CHICAGO * LOS ANGELES * SAN f HAN CISCO
Wednesday, October 10, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
Ole Miss Reacts To Segregationc> o
[continued from page 4] 
tion is wrong. We must be sure, 
however, that steps taken toward 
integration are in the right di
rection. The stepi, taken by the 
NAACP and James Meridith have 
only served to cause additional 
bitterness, which will actually de
lay the time when true integra
tion will become a reality in Missisippi.
James Gutmann, in his book 
The Journal of Philosophy, de
fines integration as a wearing to
gether rather than simply a put
ting together. A thousand Negro 
students in the University of Mis
sissippi will not make it inte
grated until the people can lose 
the bitterness which the action 
last week has caused. Are we at 
Carnegie Tech helping alleviate 
this bitterness by adding our dis
approval in the wake of nation 
wide criticism?
Sincerely yours,
Paxton Marshall
Hoiv Do We Dare 
Speak At 
Mississippi?
Editwr, The Tartan
On Thursday, October 4, I was 
requested by some passionate 
young students to add my name 
to a statement directed at the 
University of Mississippi.
Though my immediate inclina
tion was to accede, I did not sign.
Aside from my feeling that the 
statement, having an imbalance of 
emotion over reason, was so loose
ly structured that its purpose was 
not unequivocally set forth (noble 
presentments being confused with 
pragmatics: e.g., the assumption of 
the dignity of all men regardless 
of racial circumstance vs. the fear 
of the loss of political favor with 
Afro-Asian bloc). I would not sign 
the statement because it support
ed, by virtue of its uncertain 
foundation, precious little mean
ing  the foundation possessing a 
quality somewhat akin to sancti
mony or hypocracy.
Why should we. students and 
faculty, address criticism to those 
in Mississippi when we suffer, 
even preserve, on our campus fra
ternities that maintain discrimina
tory rules and practices?
On this same day, the national 
news agencies reported at least 
two statements which came di
rectly out of Oxford, Mississippi 
in condemnation of the infamous 
prejudiced-impassioned riots: one 
made by a segment of that faculty 
and one by a group of clergy. So it 
seems that courage, reason, forth
rightness, dignity, and other noble
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses. Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
qualities of the mature behavior 
are, after all, not completely lack
ing in that quarter.
But where are the voices of 
courage within the family of 
Mother Tech? How do we dare 
speak at others about those things 
of which we ourselves are not 
clean? It is so easy to direct selfrighteous utterances towards those 
who are far and impersonally de
tached from the critic; but how 
empty the meaning, if the critic 
shies from the authentic task 
which, involving risks, is soberingly real and immediate: e.g., the 
risk of alienating a popular 
schoolmate whof being a member 
of one of th institutions main
taining discriminatory rules, may 
dismiss from his society the men
tor who points out the question
able aspects of this indulgence; 
the risk of angering the parent 
who, having raised the child to 
the each-to-his-kind ideal, may 
reject him for his deviation; the 
risk of irritating a member of the 
faculty who, acting as an advisor 
to one of the anti-fraternization 
fraternities, may spurn a junior 
colleague for his honest rebuke; 
the risk of losing the good will 
of a wealthy alumnus who, being 
a segregationist Southerner with 
fond memories of the good fra
ternity life at Tech, may with
draw his financial support from 
his old fraternity or from the 
school as his protest against 
changing times; or the risk of 
bringing upon ones head the 
wrath of an administration which, 
patronizing the policies that sus
tain exclusionary practices, pos
sesses the power to investigate 
and to censure that one who 
speaks out. And! It is not enough 
that one does not participate in 
any of these discriminatory activi
ties himself; for the inaction, of 
itself, implies tacit assent. Nor is 
it enough merely to wait until the 
State has outlawed these practices 
and enforced their abolition; for 
that course, in fact, most unmanly 
of all, is admitting to impotency.
Department of Architecture 
William S. Huff 
Assistant Professor 
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
r a
'It seems like each day I'm finding it harder to 
preserve my dignity."
Immediate Fraternity Rush 
To Strengthen Greek System
by B. J. Zimnewicz
Start of a new series in which 
members of the student body will 
discuss current campus affairs.
This week: Jan Anstatt, Rush 
Chairman of C.F.P. and President 
of Beta Theta Pi comments on the 
immediate rush program.
This year, in an attempt to 
strengthen the fraternity system 
of this campus, the immediate 
rush program was re-introduced 
after two years of deferred rush. 
Results cannot be accurately 
evaluated as yet, but the situation 
is promising.
Two-hundred and fifteen young 
men have pledged, but the great
est test of the immediate rush 
program is yet to come. The fra
ternities must be able to keep 
these pledges, to guide and aid 
them in their adjustment and 
development and to acquaint 
them with the benefits and re
sponsibilities of fraternity life.
A fraternity system can survive 
only if cooperation and brother
hood exists not only among the 
brothers of one house, but be
tween all houses, as members of 
a Greek community. Immediate 
rush seems to have encouraged 
this. Rush rules allowed frater
nity men greater contact with
rushees; thus, the freshmen were 
able to judge the fraternities by 
the men they met rather than 
by relying primarily on the fra
ternities reputations.
In the past two years antag
onism developed between frater
nities as result of the competi
tion between them during the 
period preceding rush. Strict rush 
rules were required and were 
more liable to be broken; rush 
[continued on page 6]
More wood Girl 
Defines Study, 
Quiet Hours
by Susan Crytzer
There is a rumor going around 
Morewood Gardens that the per
iod from 7:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M. 
is to be a time of quiet study and 
sleep. It has been said that this 
is a quiet rumor and noting Mr. 
Websters definition of a rumor 
need one say more?
Perhaps it would be better not 
to use the word, definition. for 
it seems apparent from the sounds 
floating forth during quiet hours, 
that some students are using a 
different dictionary to define 
Quiet and Noise.
If you know someone who is 
using this different dictionary,
(please give them a copy of the 
new students who want to re
main versioi which is a dic
tionary composed of five words:
Noise: Something that doesnt 
combine with study.
Homework: That nasty thing
one tries to do during quiet 
hours.
R: That grade in red one gets 
when he combines Homework and 
Noise.
Hope: Heres hoping you have 
gotten the message.
Thank you: A word of praise 
if you help change the quiet ru
mor to the true Quiet hours ia 
Morewood Gardens.
For Sale 1962 Austin Healey, 10.000 
miles, hard and soft top. cream puff con
dition. immediate delivery. $2400 no less. 
For inspection call Joshua White, MU. 
1-0793.
I.}'otelu$TwrfS.WEBSTER HALL
your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
hotel, Weta M
4415 Piflli Av*o Pimburgh 13, Pa.
leAzOiB^g x,hh--
Distinctive 
masculine 
definition 
our vested 
herringbone 
suit for the 
quiet expression 
of confidence.
The Coach House
Traditional Apparel for Men 
Phone JA. 1-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday Evenings until 9:00
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hili

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 10, 196*
Morewood Girls Face Nightly 
Hunger and Danger in Basement
By Ruth Geshekter
As the clock strikes one, five 
Morewood maidens, dressed in 
their flimsiest nocturnal attire trip 
down the hall and into the ele
vator. Destination? The royal 
candy machines in the basement, 
of course. And though the rec
tangular metallic life savers be 
located in the darkest corner of 
the ground floor; nevertheless 
they issue forth rays of light that 
brighten the way for the famished 
five. And indeed, they can use 
some light.
Having kicked over a sufficient 
amount of leftover desks and 
other furnishings, the five man
age to keep awake long enough to 
get the money out of bed-room 
slippers and such. Alas, alack, one 
shuts her eyes, thus giving her
self reason to be confused upon 
the time of her awakening.
"Excuse me, Jane, says she,
Graphic Arts: 
Unique Films
The Department of Graphic 
Arts sponsors the monthly show
ing of Documentary films of un
usual interest. Everyone is wel
come to attend. The films are 
shown in Porter Hall on Tuesday 
at 8:15 once a month; there is no 
admission fee.
The first films of the series 
were shown on October 2 to a 
capacity crowd. Included in the 
selections was a film whose story, 
direction and design were done by 
Nick Chapaios, a teacher in the 
College of Fine Arts. The film 
was entitled On Guard. The 
idea behind On Guard was the 
communication of ideas presented 
in the shortest possible span of 
time, but with the maximum in
formation represented by the most 
minimal graphic means.Nich 
Chapaois.
Other films shown were: La 
Seine a Rencontre Paris, some of 
whose scenes were described as 
impressionistic paintings; Rain, a 
lyrical impression of a shower of 
rain in Amsterdam; and Circle of 
the Sun, which concerns the in
ner feelings of American Indi
ans and demonstrates the gap be
tween the generations.
At the next showing, Novem
ber 6, some of the films will be 
The Spanish Riding School, High
way by Hilary Harris, and La 
Dragon De RomodoFrench.
Weekly Worship 
For Protestants
All persons in the Carnegie 
Tech community are invited to 
worship and prayers each Thurs
day, 12:30 - 1:00 p.m. beginning 
October 11, in Skibo Chapel, Room 
39. This worship is sponsored by 
the Baptist Campus Ministry, the 
Lutheran Student Forundation, 
the Westminster Foundation 
(Presbyterian and United Church 
of Christ), and the Wesley Foun
dation (Methodist). Chaplains and 
staff who will lead the worship 
are the Rev. Mr. Nelson Griffiths, 
the Rev. Mr. Charles Carlson and 
Miss Nancy Phillips, the Rev. Mr. 
Edward C. Hieger, the Rev. Mrs. 
Paul Schrading and Miss Joyce 
Stoutamyer, respectively.
only to find she has bumped into 
the Danish Pastry machine.
Excuse me, Sandy, replies the 
Danish Pastry  that is  Jane, 
and smacks the former with a 
lemon bun, as if to revive her 
from sleepiness.
This little spat is interrupted by 
the sobs of one coffee lover in the 
group. It seems she has spent her 
only dime on black rather than 
the beloved cream and sugar. 
It is all her friend can do to offer 
consolation and attempt to work 
the Coke machine simultaneously.
Meanwhile, across the floor, the 
fourth of the girls finds that a 
machine has elected to be nasty 
and has refused to cough up the 
necessary change. This is a new 
one  a stunt never played be
fore. So the poor sleepy miss is 
forced to tug at a paper in her 
pocket so that she may report the
financial loss. Funny that the 
paper she tears should have such 
a definite greenish tint. Odd too, 
that George Washington should 
appear on such an insignificant 
scrap. But even as she thinks, she 
is disturbed by the sound of an 
animal. Lo and behold, it is the 
fifth girl, announcing gallantly 
that she is holding the elevator 
door.
Disheartened and bridging upon 
semi-sleep, the five drag them
selves off the elevator and into the 
hall. In a blur they see the out
lines of five other girls coming 
toward them. What is this they 
hear about basement . . . about 
candy . . . about . . . downstairs? 
And now what on earth are the 
former five doing banging their 
heads against the wall, crying for 
help . . . muttering about . . . 
insanity?
Immediate 
Fraternity Rush
[continued from page 5] 
became a period of tense sus
picion.
Revised rush rules have elim
inated the fierceness of this com
petition and the antagonism that 
necessarily accompained it. Con
sequently inter-fraternity rela
tions were not disrupted and, in 
general, rush proceeded in a com
petitive, but relaxed manner.
Immediate rush can be benefic
ial also in that the rushee will 
be accepted into the fraternity at 
the beginning of the semester. Un
like those who pledged last year, 
or the year before, he will not 
face the period of adjustment to 
college life alone. Rather, he will 
be able to rely on his future 
brothers to aid and guide him.
Thus the immediate rush pro
gram has apparently ful-filled its 
purpose to strengthen the sys
tem and promises to be beneficial 
to the social and scholastic ad
justment of the pledges.
Hillel 
Harvest Hop
Skibo Ballroom Sunday. Oct 14th
why more people smoke Winston than any other filter cigarette. 
Flavor does it every timerich, golden tobaccos specially 
selected and specially processed for filter smoking!
TARN .275N1 3
MODERN FILTER !
' 3TJ
PLUS i FILTER-BLEND J. CWarn
C li*2 B J. Hejnold Tobeeo Ccbpdj, Wlnttoc-8!*, M- <L 9
SKOOB SEX -
VI V Art* Buying Books .Vow
STUDENT BOOK CENTER
4524 FORBES AVE.(FORBES at CRAIG)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 1, 1%2  CARNEGIE neWner  race 7
Financial Aid Offered To 
5 SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN STUDENTS o
I WHO NEED SOME FINANCIAL HELP IN ORDER TO ^ 
\ COMPLETE THEIR EDUCATION DURING THIS ACADEMIC  
. YEAR AND WILL THEN COMMENCE WORK. Z
 Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION, INC. "
A Non-Profit Educational Corporation 
610-612 ENDICOTT BLOG. ST. PAUL 1, MINN.
Candidates
[continued from, page 1]
Sally likes Tech because the stu
dents are friendly and the teach
ers so warm.
MARGE LEVIN from Roslyn 
Heights, Long Island. Marge is a 
P&D and wants to go into graph
ics design. Her activities in high 
school included yearbook, news
paper, cheer-leading ,and student 
government. She enjoys water 
skiing and (of course) drawing 
and painting. She thinks Tech has 
a wonderful educational environ
ment and that the people here are 
all very warm and friendly.
ANDE LAPITSKI from North 
Hills. Ande is a home economics 
Amajor and is interested in clothing 
! and textiles and interior decorat
ing. In high school she was a ma
jorette, in the junior and senior 
class plays, and president of the 
art club. She won several art 
awards of the Special Events com
mittee of Student Congress. Ande 
commutes and feels that commu
ters are left out of campus spirit 
to a certain extent.
JANE SHEEHAN, a commuter 
I*from Regent Square. Jane is a 
business major at Tech and is 
playing girls intramural sports 
and co-rec volleyball. In high 
school, she was active in glee 
club, school paper, history and 
math honor societies and basket
ball intramurals. She is over
whelmed by all the people at Tech 
because even the freshman class 
is bigger than her entire high 
_ school.
<On October 19, the men at Tech 
will vote to limit these seven can
didates to three. Between now and 
then, however, these seven girls 
face an exciting two weeks of in
terviews, radio and T.V. appear
ances, and tours of the Tech fra
ternity houses.
LUTHERAN
UNIVERSITY
WORSHIP
Sunday Evenings 
7:30 P.M.
HEINZ MEMORIAL 
CHAPEL
kbDMHEp WI kDMHpON
HmNOGurB ABFvGuPFNy 
PrPNiu
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
CORNER POCKET 
BILLIARD CLUB
You are cordially invited 
to inspect Pittsburghs newest 
and most modern 
Pocket Billiards Club 
 featuring  
the finest SAUNIER WILHELM 
playing equipment
200 Murray Ave. Squirrel Hill
(above Hermans Bakery)
Monday to Fridays 3:30 P.M. till 1:00 A.M. 
Saturdays and Sundays Noon till Midnight
Ladies Invited
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
Campus  Favored
Women Men
SMART CASUALS HUSH - PUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
CENTRAL RESTAURANT
Now Under the New 
Management of
Theodores, Inc...
Specializing in 
Exotie Food, Shis-ka-bob 
Special Student Discount 
Meal Tickets 
ALSO WE ARRANGE FOR HOME PARTIES 
404 S. CRAIG ST. Telephone 682-8733
Tareytons Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!"
PryP MivmCmP (Alley-Oop) DBNiBFmP, raFCG rcuiSrNFc rcG ic NOG rvzOFNOGrNGu, wOFCG GB~iyFBa r lruGyNiBI 
lcGvzmP PmuG EiGP cCy wOGB yim PvioG lruGyNiB, PryP Alley-Oop. MrucmP vy wiuEP, iBG ltuGyNiBP wiuNO rCC 
NOG JmCFmP FB MivGI WGcrmPG lruGyNiB SuFBaP yim de gusti, 
bus you never thought you'd get from any filter cigaretteI
Dual Filter mokes the differenceie difference mamf'W g
DUAL FILTER TilTVtOTL

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 8 CARNGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October lt. 19?
integrity. Here is one area where 
the fraternities should take posi
tive action. According to Professor 
Rothfus, the fraternities should 
take a stronger stand against dis
honesty of any type, and comple
ment that stand through the ac
tions of their individual members. 
Their influence would bring the 
student population much closer to 
that integrity which is so urgently 
needed. Following Professor Roth
fus remarks, coffee was served 
and a lively question-and-answer 
session ensued.
Great new record offer from
CARNEERGC
BATON-TWIRLING
HIGH-STEPPER
12 Top Artists 
on a 12 Inch 
Long Playing I 
Album... 0 
Custom- J 
pressed by J 
Columbia! I*
The High-Stepper is an ideal choice for Campus Type 
#1 for two reasons. First, she is a fairly common spe
ciesand second, she is easy to identify.
Just as the bird-watching beginner should concentrate 
on the Robin, Sparrow and Cardinal before moving on 
to more exotic species, the girl watching beginner should 
master the observation and identification of types such 
as the High-Stepper before progressing to rarer (and usu
ally more difficult to identify) types.
As in all fine arts, the mastery of fundamentals is the 
key to girl watching success. This mastery of fundamen
tals is just as important in the art of cigarette making.
Taste Pall Mall and see what we mean!
Pall Malls natural mildness 
is so good to your taste!
So smooth, so satisfying, so downright smokeable!
 *3.98 
 VALUE...
 MOW JUST 
j *1.00 WITH 
J SHEAFFER'S 
SCHOLAR 
DOLLAR SPECIAL!
Mi SPECIAL OFFER
W New Sheaffer 
 Cartridge Fountain 
Pen with 98 worth 
of ^X~pr cartridges 
FREE!
$3.93 Value
E K B E^ PnitKt of
U C7\ -f/u&uoett-1 ovT middle name
Joseph Named Head of Dept, of 
Industrial Management in GSIABinding and Repair of Rare Books" 
Goes on in Hunt Library Basement
by Marty SauerDr. J. C. Warner has announced 
the appointment of Myron L. Jo
seph as head of the department of 
industrial management in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration.
A native of New York City, 
Professor Joseph received his
B. S. Degree from City College of 
New York, his M.A. from Co
lumbia University, and his Ph. D. 
from the University of Wisconsin. 
He joined the Carnegie Tech fac
ulty in 1948.
Professor Joseph is widely
Rothfus Speaks 
To TX Stressing 
College Integritv
On Wednesday. October 3, Pro
fessor Robert R. Rothfus of the 
Chemical Engineering department 
spoke at Theta Xi Fraternity. 
Theta Xi has planned a series of 
regular bi-weekly after dinner 
talks. Professor Rothfus spoke on 
Integrity and the College Fra
ternity. Citing as evidence the 
lack of widespread student indig
nation over cheating in the class
rooms and the theft of personal 
property, Professor Rothfus dem
onstrated the need for individual
known for his work and writings 
in the field of labor relations and 
his articles have appeared in In
dustrial and Labor Relations Re
view, Labor Problems, and Con
flict Resolution. He has also writ
ten a chapter on Labor-Management Relations in Dr. B. von 
Haller Gilmer's Industrial Psy
chology. With N. Seeber he has 
I written the Workbook in EconomI ics which accompanies G. L. 
Bachs Basic Economics. Both of 
these latter books, written by 
Tech faculty, are used on campus.
He has done research in the 
! sociological, economic, and poli, tical aspects of industrial rela
tions and collective bargaining. 
He has served as arbitrator for 
! many labor-management disputes.
For the past six months, Pro
fessor Joseph has been acting \ 
\ head of the department of indus- j 
trial management. >
In the basement of the Hunt 
Library, binding and repair of 
rare books has been in process 
since June, 1961. Mr. Thomas Pat
terson, Master Bookbinder on the 
staff of the Hunt Botannical Li
brary, has been recognized for 
; over a quarter-century as one of 
the leading binders in America. 
Although hand binding threatens 
to become a dying art, there is a 
grea* need for it in every library 
with large collections of old and 
rare books. Many of the bindings 
in the Hunt Botannical Library, 
j because of their age and condition, 
have been given special treat
ment to- preserve their leather. 
Some of the books need sewing, 
rebinding, and casing; others are 
in need of repairs to their pages, 
an art which requires careful 
matching of replacement papers 
with the originals. In addition to 
affecting repair, the bindery
makes fitted boxes for those vol
umes whose original paper bind
ings must be preserved for future 
studies. The materials used here 
for binding include an impres
sive asortment fo calf skins, goat 
skins, sheep skins, vellums, and 
specially colored fancy papers to 
match similar materials used 
hundreds of years ago on books of 
early vintage.
- Book repair is a continuing pro
cess because the original leather 
and paper distintegrates after
long periods of time. This happens 
especially to books of the 18th and 
19th centuries because the origin
al manufacturing processes did 
not remove harmful chemical^, 
and especially acids. If the leathef 
or paper isnt washed or neutraliz
ed properly these remaining acids 
tend to deteriorate the fibers after 
a few score years. Sulphurous gas
es present in the air combine with 
the humidity to form dastructive 
acids which contribute to dsint
gration of fibers.
THE ONLY PLACE TO EAT
CHINESE FOOD IS THE
Bamboo Garden Restaurant
featuring;Special Luncheons and Dinners
FOR STUDENTS AND BUSINESSMEN 
3531 Forbes Ave. Take Out Service  Catering: to Parties
WJ
Pall Mall PresentsGIRL WATCHER S GUIDE

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 10, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 9
A SHIRT WITH AN OXFORD ACCENT
British inspired, all-American admired ... 
Arrows Gordon Dover Club/' Medium-point, 
button-down collar is softly rolled for unstilted 
shaping and fit. Tailored with traditional placket 
front, plaited back in cool cotton Oxford. AllAmerican trimly tailored to look clean-cut, to 
feel really comfortable..Sanforized.labeled 
keeps it that way. $5.00.
-ARROWS
Tech Cridders Fight Waynesburg 
Lose to Top Small College Team
by John Blue
Carnegie Tech finally scored 
yesterday, but it wasnt nearly 
enough as the Wayr esburg Yel
low jackets romped home the win
ner, 25-6.
There was a marked difference 
in the Tech play for this game 
as compared with the play in the 
39-0 pounding the team took the 
week before at the hands of Deni
son. Offensively, the team was 
able to amass nine first downs and 
165 yards, and defensively, were 
able to hold off the Jackets at 
several key points in the game.
Lack of alertness and sloppy 
tackling hurt the Tartans more 
than anything else. On the two 
touchdown runs of Fullback Paul 
Stanek, at least three Tech play
ers had clear shots at him only to 
see him squirm away. The 60 yard 
punt return that Washington turn
ed into a TD came about because 
of a nifty fake that saw nine of 
Techs elpven men go for the 
wrong man.
Top Team
Waynesburg went into Satur
days game as the top ranked 
small college team in Pennsyl
vania, and their brand of head^ 
up football lent credence to their 
rating. Waynesburg Coach Pete 
Mazzafero, who was voted the 
Curbstone Coaches award last 
year for his 6-2 record, brought a 
group of well drilled players to 
the Tech bowl, and it is to the 
Tartans credit that the score and 
statistics were not more lopsided.
There was a good crowd on 
hand for the kickoff. Co-captains 
for Tech were Furman Smith and 
Jim Baker. For Waynesburg it 
was Stanek and Eckley. Waynes
burg won the toss and elected to 
receive.
The Black-jersied yellowjackets 
were unable to move the ball on 
the first set of downs and kicked. 
Starting on their own 5, Tech 
moved to the 15 and a first down, 
their first in two games. It wasnt 
to last, and three plays later Tech 
had to kick. A fake handoff of 
the punt by Waynesburg didnt
work, and a clipping penalty on 
Waynesburg placed the ball on the 
Jackets 18. Fifteen plays later, 
Fullback Stanek rumbled into the 
end zone from the 13, and 
Waynesburg led, 6-0. In this drive, 
Halfbacks Washington and Fuller
ton carried the brunt of the load. 
A Laurent to Milchak pass and 
then a lateral to Fullerton allow
ed Fullerton to waltz unmolested 
into the end zone, but the play 
was called back to where Milchak 
caught the ball. The ruling was 
that his knees had touched the 
ground, and in a truly inspiring 
display of good sporstmanship, 
the Waynesburg pep band broke
into a stirring rendition of Three 
Blind Mice, obviously aimed direct\- at the offending official.
Offense Rolls 
Fullerton kicked off to Smith 
who returned it 20 yards to the 35. 
For the first time in three games 
the offense began to show a bit 
of polish. Abels, running hard, 
went to the 44. Merrill, up and 
over, got the first at the 47. Smith 
turned left end and with good 
running went 11 yards to the 
Waynesburg 41 and a first down. 
Two excellent fakes in the backfield and then a handoff to Smith 
set the ball on the 34. Abels went 
[continued on page 10]
VIlDHIpX TEEPp YOAM bDIM NEDl DHH DDY WIlbOAl GMEDpE!
GuGrNGPN EFPcivGuy PFBcG NOG civS! VFNrCFP wFNO V,h<>, NOG 
auGrPGCGPP auiivFBa EFPcivGuyI TGGzP yimu OrFu BGrN rCC Ery 
wFNOimN auGrPG,rBE zuGvGBNP EuyBGPP, NiiI luy VFNrCFP NiEryI
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS FOR ARROW PRODUCTS
Nationally-known Clothing: and Furnishings,
Featuring Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND 
Open Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Till 9:00 P.M.
Tartans Charae For First TD
Smokey Merrill goes into end zone for Tech's first touchdown.
Tech Runners Win Again 
As Duquesne Falls, 50-15
By Mike Campbell
Techs Cross-Country team roll
ed to its second straight perfect 
score victory as it swept the first 
seven places in the dual meet with 
Duquesne last Friday. Tech used 
a six man line on offense as 
Chris Macasko, Tony Hausner, 
Andy Niedra, Tom Bednarz, Paul 
Fackler, and Mike Campbell all 
finished in a six-way tie for first. 
The time was 26:33. Following 
about a minute behind was Herb 
DAlo who had to outsprint Duquesnes first man coming down 
Flagstaff hill to place seventh.
Glenn Moon suffered a painful 
stone bruise about three miles out 
and was not able to complete the 
race. Hopefully his foot will heal 
in time for the Grove City meet 
this Saturday as he has been 
running well this year.
The 15-50 score is actually an 
underrating of the real happen
ings as two more Tech runners 
(Ed Barvick and Frank Borkat) 
displaced some of Duquesnes first 
five. However, the scoring only 
allows for the first seven runners 
on a squad to displace the other 
teams runners. Therefore, the 
scores go 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 
5th (sum  15) and 8th, 9th, 10th, 
11th, 12th (sum  50) even 
though Techs 8th and 9th runners 
were 9th and 13th, respectively.
This Saturday the team will 
find its first rough competition as 
it runs against a strong Grove 
City squad. The Grove City group 
has a corps of four excellent 
runners, all of whom placed in the 
top 15 in the conference meet last 
year. Also Tech will be handi
capped by the loss of Mike Camp
bell for this meet. Acting captain 
Andy Niedra will lead the team in 
this Saturdays encounter and, if 
the team is up, they should bring 
home a victory.
pNry SuFaONI FFaON EuiwPFBGPP rBE SG 
rN yimu SuFCCFrBN SGPN wFNO VGuvR 
ciBNFBmimP rcNFiB rCGuNBGPP crzPmCGcc 
EccGcNFvG, PrcG, BiN OrSFN,ciuvFBaI
PiizGE III SmN vmPN cruuy iB? pBrz 
cFaON Srco rBE oGGz aiFBa! lroG VGuv^ 
kiBNFBmimP rcNFiB rCGuNBGPP crzPmCGPe Effective, safe^ not habit-forming.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 10, 1962
Tech Scores Touchdown in 2nd Quarter, 
Loses to Tough Yellowjucket Eleven 25-6
[continued from page 9]
to the 31 where an unnecessary 
roughness penalty on the Jackets 
placed the ball on the Waynesburg 
17. Six plays later it was fourth 
down and goal to go on the 2. A 
pitchout to Merrill backfired and 
was caught at the 7 where the 
Yellowjackets took over.
Tech Scores 
Three plays netted the Jackets
8 yards, and on a fourth and two 
situation, Waynesburg tried to 
punt out of danger. Big Larry Arrendas, playing very alert ball, 
squired past a blocker, and got his 
hand on the punt before it left i 
the kickers foot. The ball rolled 
to the one inch line where Van
Duesen fell on it as if it were the 
Hope diamond. The crowd went 
wild as Terry H *chler tried a 
| quarterback wedge and didnt get
i the TD. On the next play, Full
back Smokey Merrill dove over 
the top to end the Tech scoring 
drought. The kick failed and the 
score stood 7-6 with 4:59 left in 
the half.
The Tech score seemed to in
furiate Waynesburg. Beginning on 
their own 42, Waynesburg scored 
in just four plays, with the clinch
er being a 16 yard dash by Stanek.
Tech could do nothing more in 
the half. Several long passes fell 
incomplete, and at the half the 
score was 13-6.
To start the second half,
Waynesburg kicked off, and 
Hechler returned to the 36. Using 
their unbalanced T, Tech moved 
for 27 yards to the Waynesburg
36 before a fumble killed this 
budding drive. The Jackets could 
do nothing against the solid 6-3-2 
defense put up by the Tartans, 
and kicked to the Tech 21. On the 
second play of this series, Hechler 
flipped a beautiful screen pass 
which Smith tucked in and rambl
ed to the 35. Waynesburg stiffened 
and stopped this drive, forcing 
Tech to punt.
Washington Rambles 
The punt went to Fullerton who 
tucked it in and running laterally 
handed off to Washington going 
the opposite direction. So good
was the fake that almost the en
tire team made for Fullerton with 
mayheim on their mind. By the 
time they realized that Fullerton 
did not have the ball, George 
Washington was trotting across 
the goal with a very large grin on 
his face. The kick was blocked. 
Score 19-6.
Following this, the teams ex
changed the ball several times 
with neither team looking really 
sharp. A down and out pass to 
DAppolonia and a flat pass to 
Arrendas indicated that the team 
was ready to roll, but a fumble 
on the same play as was fumbled 
earlier killed the drive.
Starting on their 33 after having 
been given possession of the ball 
via the fumble, the Yellowjackets 
scored in ten plays. Laurent scor
ed after taking a pitch from 
Stanek who was trapped behind 
the line of scrimmage.
Tech took the ball on the en
suing kickoff, had a couple of good 
plays but more poor plays, and 
punted. Coach Mazzeferro shipped 
his third unit into the game and
they spent the rest of the after
noon trying to score. The game 
ended with them on the Tech 13 
and disappointed because they 
hadn.t gotten their share of points.
The final score of 25-6 is not 
indicative of the scare Tech gave 
the visiting bees. Until the fine 
punt return by Washington. Tech 
was within range of the visitors, 
and they knew it. After the game, 
a disappointed but not down
hearted Coach Eddie Hirshberg 
said of the team, They gave their 
best. Some tackles were missed, 
week, and will be out to get back 
on the winning track against the 
meet the crimson Wolverines of 
Coach J. Behringer. Grove City 
but they were also playing a very 
tough team. All of the boys per
formed creditably, and well just 
have to try to eliminate the 
missed tackles.
To Grove City
This coming week the Tartans 
journey to Grove City College to 
was edged 8-7 by a tough West
minster College team this past 
[continued on page 11]
Hard running AI Abels turns left end.Unidentified Tech player drives for gain against Waynesburg's Fullerton.
GRAND OPENING
JIM ZANOS--JACK JULIUSpresent...The Den Of The Golden Panther
(formerly Pitt Pott)
tmigatutic Collegiate UVeehend 
FRIDAY AW | Tuesday-9:00 P.M.
featuring JERRY BETTERS I DON ANDERSON
ALL YOU CAN CONSUME--S2.00 ^ " aai^ _
4 p.m. girls~$1.00 | COMBO
SATURDAY  Commencing 4:00 P.M. continuous till 12:00 P.M.
JAZZ MARATHON
featuring JERRY BETTERS AND HIS COMBO 
? ????? ?????
Monday. Wednesday & Saturday - 9:30 RECORDING STAR TONY RAY
Sing Alongs, Skits and Songs
and your singing host  JACK JULIUS
Dancings Jam Sessions and Romance
Available for Private Parties - Contact Jim Zanos MlJ 2-9495 after 7:30 P.M.
4519 CENTRE AVENUE PITTSBURGH 13

---------------------------------------------------

ks & Boss
kOHAMWID pPEkIDH PMODAklp
A of Columbia Records
Dave Brubeck
t m in a Dancing Mood
Ray ConniffThe Way You Look Tonight
Miles Davis
If I Were a Bell
AdJ BrotdJrs Four
Marianne
Andr Pretin
Duke Ellington
PtrtQ
Carmen McRae
ParadMI* Jo*
Roy Hamilton
Gerry Mulligan
What Is There To 5a/
Everything's Commg Up So***
Lambert, Hendry
Cloudburst
Buddy Greco
The Ltdf U * Tt*np
Wednesday, October If, 1962  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pag* 11
^X ~p^reps c//Jcu/ Score Does Not Indicate The Terror 
nptXR adpWpd ^ Inflicts on the Yellow Jackets
kOMEp t MAD
by Scott McCormick
Intramural football saw only 
limited action this past week due 
a light schedule and inclement 
/eather. Mud and lopsided scores 
t'ere the keynote of most of the 
h;ven games played.
R4WDB A squad bombed the 
Jrowns 32-7, while their Bs looksurprisingly good in a 13-3 
foss to SAE.
The Marauders came fi'om beIhind with a forty-yard pass play 
[in the last quarter to squeeze by 
PiKA 6-3 in the weeks closest 
I contest.
Kappa Sig clobbered the TroIjans 42-14, while the Tau Delts 
I laced TX 39-6. Beta Sig rolled 
[over Delta Upsilons Bs 21-2.
Jack Lindberg led the Beta Bs 
a 29-7 trouncing of SAEs B 
squad.
And, last but not least, Captain 
Dddys Polish Falcons succumbed 
Ito the C5 clods 21-14, in the weeks 
jmost- exciting match.
pI GMEEN
All Walches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
SUCCESSFUL
STUDENTS
LINCOLN LABORATORY
has openings for a 
limited number of en
gineers, physicists ond 
mathematicians in orig
inal research and 
development activities.
LINCOLN LABORATORY
is an electronics research 
ond development center 
established by M.I.T. in 
195!.
OAM MEPMEpENlDlIVE 
WIHH WE ON kDMPAp
OCTOBER 19
kONlDkl YOAM 
PHDkEMENl OFFIkE NOW
MGPGrucO iBE DGvGCizvGBN
LINCOLN LABORATORY
MrNFicOmFGNNF IBPNFNmNG ic lGcOBiCiay
[continued from page 10]
winless but no longer scoreless 
Tartans.
Despite the 0-3 record, the 
team attitude remains good. Said 
an unidentified player, Well be 
ready for Grove City. The atti
tude brings to mind the quote 
from Sports Illustrated concern
ing the Tech football team: Si
mon pure, sometimes scrawney, 
but always spirited.
Official Game Statistics
TechWaynesburg9First Downs176First Downs Rushing103First Downs Passing7109Yards Gained Rushing23015Passes Attempted205Passes Completed121Intercepted by156Yards Gained Passing1092Fumbles02Fumbles Lost By00Penalties50Yards Lost Penalties55165Net Yards Gained337TECHWAYNESBURGScore byQuarters:Tech0 6 006F S TFTotTech0 6 6 06Wayneeburg 7 6 6625Tech's Furman Smith tries to elude Waynesburgs George Washington.
Great new record offer ($3.98 value)...just $1.00 
when you buy Sheaffers back-to-school special!
Now when you buy your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen for 
school, you get 98! worth of Skrip cartridges FREE...a 
$3.93 value for just $2.95. Look for Sheaffers back-toschool special now at stores everywhere. On the back of 
the package, theres a bonus for you ... a coupon good 
for a $3.98 value Columbia limited-edition record. Its 
**Swingin Sound, twelve top artists playing top hits for 
the first time on a 12' L.P. This double-value back-toschool offer good only while they last! So hurry, choose 
your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen from five smart colors... and 
mail your Swingin Sound record coupon today.
SHEAFFERS BACK-TO-SCHOOL SPECIAL! 
New cartridge pen with 98< worth of cartridges FREE.
^FHWF :CDpK wcl ^HWL

---------------------------------------------------

WDpTElWDHH kHINIk INlMODAkEp 
"MOVING PHDYEM' lYPE OF GDME
Paffe iS  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October It, 1964
This Saturday, October 13, at 
2:30 in the mens gymnasium, the 
Pittsburgh Board of Women Offi
cials will sponsor a basketball 
clinic. The purpose of the clinic is 
to introduce the new roving 
player type of game which will 
become official with the 1962-63 
game rules. The new rules will
completely change the style of 
play from what we have been 
used to in past j'ears.
A basketball team from Mil
waukee will do the actual presen
tation of material. This team won 
the Wisconsin state womens AAU 
championship this past year. They 
have put on similar clinics in
various parts of the country to 
intrduce the changes in the rules.
The program has been set up to 
provide useful material to both 
the teacher and player of basket
ball. Women students who plan 
to take part in WAA basketball 
intramurals or club basketball, or 
who plan to elect this sport for 
one quarter of their physical educatin class are urged to attend. 
Registration is 75c for adults and 
25c for students, payable at the 
door.
Swimming Team Drills
The Varsity Swimming team 
has begun practice for the 1962- 
63 season. During the month of 
October the squad will be partici
pating in dry land drills exclu
sively in order to prepare for the 
hard competitive months ahead.
Several lettermen are returning, 
but most positions are still vacant 
and must be filled with newcom
ers All students who can swim 
and are interested are urged to 
try out for the team. Several let
termen have volunteered their = 
coaching and managerial services 
in order to develop the full poten ^ 
tial of the squad. Interested per
sons should contact Mrs. Plantz 
in the Athletic Directors office, 
Gym 102.
Yim OrvG (iu wFCC OrvG) yimu POIDI iu MrPNGuP DGauGG
YOU MAY FIND THAT A MOVE TO MARTIN WILL BE A MOVE UP IN YOUR 
CAREER ... A MOVE AHEAD TOWARD SIGNIFICANT ACCOMPLISHMENT
important Martin positions for PHYSICISTS, ENGINEERS, APPLIED MATHEMATICIANS ant/ SCIENTISTS 
with advanced degrees in:
AERONAUTICAL OR ASTRONAUTICS
bUNy$Gx' CNyAU'G' 
dyINETRSU(mR, 
(UNy$Gx' 
wAtTTEm htmtAENxE
CIVIL
KAy'TGxGTU yN( 
gAy'TGxGTU 
lyN(R$ DRy(GNI
wAtG( bUNy$Gx' 
ry.E gSENR$ENy 
lE,ENTmU 9EyTGNI 
gmRAE$'
gAyTE yN( hSGN,'SEAA 
OTmtxTtmE'
CHEMISTRY (Phylcal-Organic)
kRN,EitGAGmGt$ Rm 
CEmR,xSE$GxyA 
y'jExT' R .EmU SG, 
'jEE( AGIST
ly(GRxSE$G'TmU 
9G,TE$j xSE$GxyA 
mEyxTGRN'
ELECTRICAL OR ELECTRONICS
byTy gmRxE''GNI 
ORAG( OTyTE PGmxtGTmU 
nNmymE( 
dGxmR2y.E 
8tG(yNxE C ky.GIyTGRN 
:G'tyA gmE'ENTyTGRN 
OU'TE$' 
PmURIENGx'
gmRjyIyTGRN 
gmRAE$' 
PR$$yN( C 
PRNTmRA 
gAy'$y dGxmR2y.E 
nNTEmyxTGRN' 
KNEmIU PRN.Em'GRN 
hSEm$REAExTmGxM
9UjEm'RNGx, lymEVE( 8y' wAR2
K*jEmG$ENTyA OTmE'' 
CNyAU'G' R OTmtxq
TtmE' yT KAE.yTE( 
hE$jEmyTtmE'
ORAG( OTyTE bE.GxE' 
GNETGx' R mEyxTGRN 
gAy'TGx'
nNRm$yTGRN hSERmU 
OE$G,PRN(txTRm 
OTt(GE'
C(.yNxE( PR$$tNGq
xyTGRN OU'TE$' 
OTt(GE' 
CtTR$yTGx PRNTmRA 
OU'TE$' 
CEmR'jyxE :ESGxAE 
KAExTmGxyA gR2Em 
bG'TmGtTGRN 
OU'TE$'
ON-CAMPU8 INTERVIEWS 
cxTREm F0
gAEyT^ xRNTyxT UR.m PRAAEIE gAyxE$ENT cGxEm Rm yN yjjRGNTq
$ENTH n URt ymE ENyAE Ty yTTEN( TSE GNTEm.GE2 2mGT^ TRG GH GH 
myR.Gx bGmExTRm PRAAEIE lEAyTGRN' dymTGN PR$jyNU oyATG$RmE 
0 dymUAyN(H
PHYSICSf NUCLEAR PHYSICS A SGMNCE
KNEmIU PRN.Em'GRN 
hSEm$GRNGx C 
dyINETRSU(mR, 
(UNy$Gx'M 
KAExTmRN cjTGx' 
nNmymE( 
PmURIENGx'
CxRt'TGx gR2Em 
gmE(GxTGRN 
C(.yNxE( lEyxTRm 
OTt(GE' 
pN(Em2yTEm 
CxRt'TGxa 
hSGNGA$'
ly(GRG'RTRjE wtEAE( 
8ENEmyTRm bE.EAq
Rj$ENT
PROPULSION A THERMODYNAMICS
wAtG( bUNy$Gx' R 
$tATG,jSy'E Iy'E' 
DGitG( lRxuET 
OTt(GE'
C(.yNxE( OjyRE 
gmRjtA'GRN 
OU'TE$'
dExSyNGxyA C'jExTa 
R C(.yNxE( 
lEyxTRm'
MATHEMATICS (Applied}
PAy''GxyA dExSyNGx' 
cmGTyA dExSyNGx' 
OU'TE$' K.yAtyTGRN 
R lEyxTRm'
METALLURGY
9G,TE$j dyTEmGyA' 
ORAG(,OTyTE bE.GxE'
hSERmU R bUNy$Gx 
gmRImy$$GNI 
OU'TE$' cjTG$GQyq
TGRN C kRNAGNEym 
dETSR('
C(.yNxE( rEA(GNI 
!RGNGNI hExSNGitE'
ry.E gmRjyIyTGRN 
GN ORAG(' 
gAy'$y dGxmR2y.x 
nNTEmyxTGRN' 
8tG(yNxE C 
C(yjTG.E PRNTmRA 
gmRxE''E'
ly(GyTGRN SEyT 
TmyN'Em jmRAE$' 
KN.GmRN$ENTyA 
OU'TE$' tATmy, SGIS .yxtt$M
bGIGTyA DRIGx C C(yjTG.E 
gmRxE''E' 
lyN(R$ OGINyA, 
hSERmU OTt(GE' 
nNTEmjAyNETymU 
hmyzExTRmGE'
KExT' R dETyAq
AtmIGxyA OTmtxTtmEa 
PmEEj C OTmE'' 
ltjTtmE ESy.GRm 
R 'tjEm,yAARU yN( 
mEmyxTRmU $ETyA'M
i
EXPERIMENTAL OR INDUSTRIAL PSYCHOLOGY 
(Ph.D. Only>
PRNTmRA,bG'jAyU
lE'EymxS
bExG'GRN,dyuGNI
OTt(GE'
9t$yN wyxTRm' wGEA( 
K.yAtyTGRN C 
CNyAU'G' R 
lE'tAT'
MARTN COMPANY
The Aerospace Division ofNAI9TIM
