TARTAN
} Volume 66Number 16Wednesday, February 8, 1967
Tech Clarifies Draft 
Policies, Suggestions
Two days remain before the February 10 deadline for 
submission of applications for the Selective Service College 
Qualification Test to be given on three dates this spring. 
As announced in previous Tartans, the test dates are March 
11, March 31, and April 8, 1967. Application forms may be 
picked up from Mrs. Ryan, Selective Service Administrator, 
in Warner Hall 205.
Swank, Young View Qreeks 
In Formal Rush Opener
Earle Swank, Dean of Men, and Dr. Hugh D. Young, physics instructor, opened 
formal fraternity rush last Wednesday with speeches on their views of the Tech fratern
ity system. Before an audience of nearly 300 freshmen in the Skibo Ballroom, Swank 
spoke as a representative of the Administra tion, giving the schools attitudes towards 
fraternities; while Young spoke as a former Tech fraternity man himself, discussing the
personnel advantages of joining a fraternity.
In addition, Mrs. Ryan notes, 
there seems to be some confus
ion concerning the schools poli
cy on Selective Service. At pres
ent, the students rank in class 
and a certification of enroll
ment is sent his local board 
only at the students request.
On the Permit-to-Register form, 
filled out by all students in the 
Fall, the student indicates wheth
er Tech is authorized to inform 
the draft board of his academic 
status, in accordance with selec
tive service procedures. If his 
answer is affirmative, both a cer
tificate of enrollment and rank-inclass forms are automatically sent 
to his local board. If the answer 
is no, or the question was left un
answered, Tech will not send 
either form to the local board.
> However, according to Mrs. 
Ryan, several cases have de
veloped where Tech was not 
authorized by the student to 
release this information, and 
subsequently the student has 
been reclassified 1-A.
Further, Mrs. Ryan states, if 
a student has registered with Se
lective Service since his enroll
ment at Tech, he should report 
his Selective Service number and 
local board address to Mrs. Ryan, 
if he wants his class rank and 
certification of enrollment sent to 
his Local board.
Deferment Guildlines
While each local board is au
tonomous, essentially three guide
lines are used for deferment.
1) Satisfactory progress toward 
a degree: For Tech students, this 
generally means taking 48 to 50 
units per semester, depending on 
study, in order to complete de
gree requirements in the prescrib
ed eight consecutive semesters. 
For architecture students the re
quirements must be met in ten 
consecutive semesters.
2). Rank in class: Seniors plan
ning on graduate study should 
be in the top one-quarter of the 
male graduating class. Juniors, 
llPon successful completion of 
their third year should be in th 
top three quarters of the full-time 
male students enrolled in that 
class. Sophomores, after finishing 
successfully their second year, 
should be in the top two-thirds of 
the full-time male students ir 
their second year. Freshmen in 
tending to enroll as sophomores
(Continued on Page 9)
Summer Jobs
The Bureau of Placements has 
been contacted by several firms 
Poking for students for summer 
^ork. Students interested in sum 
mer jobs are invited to visit the 
Placements Office and fill out an 
aPplication card for its sumrr 
file.
Outcast Bond Reviews 
Negro Politics, Rights
Julian Bond, a member of the Georgia legislature 
whose right to be seated was recently upheld by the Su
preme Court, spoke here at Tech and at Carnegie Lecture 
Hall last Friday, Feb. 3. Bond had been refused his seat 
three times on grounds of disloyalty, because he supported 
S.N.C.C.s position on the war in Vietnam and because he 
urged young men to seek legal alternatives to military 
service.Highlander Ideas Rejected; 
Plans Costly, Incompatible
The plan to make the Highlander Room into a twolevel recreation room was rejected last week by the Admin
istration as being too expensive and not fitting into plans
for an addition to Skibo.
Rush Events
Pledging Night for freshmen 
undergoing fraternity rush is next 
Monday night, Feb. 13. Four 
events remain on the formal rush 
calendar: dinners tonight and to
morrow night at 5 pm, smokers 
Friday evenings from 7 to 10 pm, 
and parties Saturday from 8 pm 
to 1 am.
The dinners and the smokers 
are coat-an-tie, and the parties 
are casual dress.
Julian Bond, whose Georgia Leg
islature seat was revoked three 
times before Supreme Court back
ing seated him.
Bond spoke briefly to students 
in GSIA auditorium about Negro 
politics in the United States. He 
illustrated the different styles of 
Negro politics that have develop
ed in different parts of the 
country, including the strategies 
cf Northern Negroes, who must 
deal with machine politicians, 
and by Southern Negroes, who 
have traditionally been cut out of 
politics and have difficulty using 
political power effectively. Bond 
concluded his speech by explain(Continued on Page 13)
Tax Refund
Those students who made less 
than $1000 last year while work
ing in Pittsburgh are entitled to 
a refund of the $10 city occupa
tional tax which was deducted 
lrom their salaries,
They should call the Occupa
tion Tax Department at 281-3900 
and Tax Statement (or W2) form, 
must be filed wth the city in or
der for the refund to become ef
fective.
(See editorial, page 4)
Carnegie Tech employees may 
obtain their 1966 W2 forms from 
the Assistant Treasurers Office, 
Warner Hall Concourse.
Students who are working in 
the city this year but plan to be 
elsewhere next year, may ask the 
city for an additional sets of re
fund applications. In Nov. or Dec. 
of 1967 they may contact the Car
negie Tech Payroll Office and 
have their W2 forms mailed to 
the appropriate address.
Fasters Protest Techs 
Accepting Defense Money
A Fast for Peace begins today and is scheduled to run 
for three days. The purpose of the fast is to be an act of 
penitence for the war in Vietnam.
The Fast is the result of
YWCA Cookie Sale
The Tech YWCA will be having its annual Valentines Day 
Cookie Sale on Wednesday, Feb.
15, from 11:15 am to 1:30 pm. As 
in the past, cookies will be sold 
in Baker Hall and MMCC. The 
cookie sale proceeds are for the 
YW Conference Fund which is 
used to send students to local, 
regional, and national confer
ences. Cost will be 25 cents per 
bag.
is me result of a 
meeting held last week in Wash
ington and attended by 2000 cler
gymen from across the country. 
The clergymen met to discuss a 
Peace Mobilization.
The local Fast is being parti
cipated in by students from the 
(Continued on Page 14)
Senior Photos
Seniors who did not sit for This
tle photos should notify Al Kurz
weil at Sigma Nu immediately.
An estimate written by James 
P. Kerr, superintendent of En
gineering for the Physical Plant 
department, placed the cost of 
the project at $77,000. In his 
recommendation to the Division 
of Student Affairs, Kerr called 
this cost prohibitive consider
ing the magnitude of the project.
George K. Brown, Dean of 
Student Affairs, guessed that 
with an original estimate of 
$77,000, the expenses would 
eventually run in the neighbor
hood of $100,000. An estimate 
of 15 to 20,000, he said, might 
have been acceptable.
Kerr cited the proposed upper 
deck of the new Highlander 
Room as being the part of the 
plan that made it unreasonably 
expensive. Since pool tables were 
to be installed on the upper deck, 
supports for the deck would have 
to be heavier than those for the 
mezzanine of the snack bar. Al
so, since the upper deck was to 
run all the way to the Window 
wall facing the parking lot, the 
air-conditioning and ventilation 
systems for the room would have 
to be extensively reworked.
(Continued on Page 11)
Thistle Meeting
The photography staff of Techs 
yearbook, the Thistle, will meet 
next Monday, Feb. 13, at 4:30 
pm in Skibo 53. Anyone inter
ested in joining the staff should 
attend this meeting. Old staff 
members are asked to return all 
Tliistle-owned equipment.
Students interested in working 
for the Thistle but not able to at
tend the meeting can leave a 
note, addressed to Stan Sholik, 
photo editor, under the door in 
room 53, telling their names and 
where they can be contacted.
Swank started by establish
ing that the Administration 
does care about the Greeks, 
noting that $2 million of school 
funds have been spent on fra
ternity housing, and that I 
have devoted a major part of 
my concern for men students 
(as Dean of Men) to the fra
ternities.
He said the Administration has 
also expressed interest in the ef
fect of fraternities on academic 
performance, but has found them 
to have little influence on stu
dents grades. The all-fraternity 
average, according to Swank, 
usually deviates from the all
mens average by less than one 
percentage point.
Greeks Important
Finally, Swank gave two rea
sons he thought fraternities were 
important to the academic com
munity. First, they form re
sponsibility to a group and to 
yourself . . to fraternities I give 
far more responsibility for the 
conduct of their own members 
than I do to any other group 
and Im proud of what they do. 
Second, they provide a center 
around which social activity can 
be developed .... they facilitate 
involvement in school activities. 
Also, They do provide food 
and housing that have some 
measure of human dignity and 
warmth in them.
Swank summed up his last 
argument by saying, If we 
didnt have fraternities, we 
would have to set out to create 
social structures of the kind 
that fraternities are.
Dr. Young told about his un
dergraduate days at Tech, and 
how he did mostly bookish 
things at the start of his college 
career. He joined a fraternity be(Continued on Page 4)
Inside . , , 
. . . The Tartan
What dos th community 
think of Tech Students?................p. 2
Administration Committee
Overrules Men's Dorm Council p. 4
Editorials ................................................p, 4
Readers Write ................................p. 5
Stetson Chosen 'Young Civil 
Engineer of the Year' 
in Pittsburgh ............................p. 7
Five Choices for Tech's
Representative to the Allegheny 
County Cover-Girl Contest ....p. 10
Nature of The University ______p. 11
Slack, English Department 
representative, discusses 
Carnegie Education Center....p. 14
Tartan Hoopsters Win 5
of last 6; Swim Team scores
first season victory ................p. 16

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 8, 1967
Modern Films Make Second Campus Showing
The second in a series of pro
grams of underground and ex
perimental films will be held on 
Wednesday, Feb. 8, in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Showings will be at 
4:30, 7:00, and 9:00, and admis
sion will be 75c.
Featured is the JonasMekas(Continued on Page 5)
Community Comments 
Reflect Student Image
Tartan Executive Editor Sue Attinson surveyed shopoumers 
students, and citizens in Oakland and Shadyside to find out what 
kind of an image Tech students project in the community. This is her report.
According to some members of the Shadyside and Oak-1 
land communities, mode of dress has stereotyped Carnegie 
Tech students  particularly those thought to be artists 
More than one person said: You can look at someone whos
got a beard and long hair and guess that he goes to Tech_
but then, you cant really tell.
The consensus among Carnegie 
Institute librarians, as expressed 
by one who would have prefer
red to study drama at Tech, is 
that Tech students tend to be 
beat and way-out.
Referring to specific customers, 
a young clothing store sales girl 
called Tech taste Rookie, ad
mitting that Tech women are 
usually a little more fashion con
scious than the Chatham girls 
who shun mini skirts for A-line, 
round-collar, cardigan outfits.
Last year, they were a little 
more eccentric in their dress, 
said one middle-aged critic as 
she stood amidst her stock of 
spring shoes. A lot of the boys 
had beards which they dont have
Michaelangelo in London
Antonionis
by Stan Thomas
Blow-up is a film about photography. The central character is 
a photographer whose photographs will appear in all the right glossy 
magazines and illustrate all the in places and now people. The ma
jor metaphor of the film is the photographic organ: the camera. The 
film itself is an examination of the relationship between what the 
camera photographs and what the eye sees. What the camera sees 
is reality. What the human eye sees may not be. In Red Desert An
tonioni was probing the meaning and place of machinery and tech
nology in a world of human relationships; in Blow-Up that exam
ination has been taken further into the difference between reality 
and fantasy.
The film opens with a jeep full of young people in white
(Continued on Page 8)
DIRECT FROM ITS RESERVED 
SEAT ENGAGEMENTS!now, she continued. Students 
also had a fancy for funny hats.
Other descriptive comments 
were more caustic. Said a Uni
versity of Pittsburgh under
graduate after purchasing a 
pair of loafers: Most of the 
ones (Tech students) Ive met 
should be thrown in a bath. 
The short-order cook in a pop
ular Shadyside restaurant/bar 
voiced a similar opinion. Basic
ally, you can tell all fine arts 
studentsnot engineersbecause 
oi their filth. The young man, 
who claimed to be a grade-school 
dropout, spoke at length: They 
feel its elite to be dirty . . . suf
fering until the next paycheck 
comes in. He was full of praise 
for the well-rounded engineer
ing students and that small 
group of good students that keeps 
the schools standards up. With 
regard to the women, it annoyed 
him that they could be so open, 
in their discussions with strang
ers.
Women Look Like Men?
Carnegie Tech women try too 
hard to look like men, complain
ed a Pitt undergraduate who 
worked part-time in a mens 
store. He pointed to navy surplus 
bell-bottoms as being especially 
unattractive and called sloppy 
the men with paint all over their 
pants.
A group of Pitt students sit
ting in the Towers gave this 
analysis: At every school 
there is an image. Pitts image 
is: black socks or no socks, loaf
ers, short hair brushed lightly.
. . . Techs image is: long hair, 
beards, rimless glasses, boots, 
pea jackets, mesh stockings, and 
bell-bottoms for the girls. One 
of the group, a junior in Eng
lish, said that Techs beat 
image was one of the reasons 
why she chose Pitt.
Sitting nearby, a bearded and 
booted sophomore with plans to 
transfer complained of the hipper than thou attitude that he 
had encountered in Skibo. You 
try to look Tech, he said, but the 
in-people make it clear that you 
dont really belong.
But regardless of appearance, 
in many circles Carnegie Tech 
students do have a nice reputatibn.
A lot of art students come in 
when Im in Dinosaur Hall, said 
one Carnegie Museum guard. 
Theyre very nice; they clean 
up and leave everything neat. 
No Berkeley-ites 
Theyre well-behaved, dont 
get arrested like the kids at Ber
keley do, a deli-grill employee 
said, admitting a bit of prejudice.
The same people who noted 
peculiarities in -appearance were 
among the first to admit that 
Tech students are bright and 
creative. Even if theyre the 
way they are, some of them do 
have genius.
Two beauticians discussed Tech 
visitors to Shadyside: They 
come out in groups. ... A lot of 
them are very quiet. . . . Theyre 
absorbed in their work, some
thing they like to do.
Naming several prominent 
Tech alumni, a Shadyside cof
fee shop owner with a son in 
medical school asked matter-of(Continued on Page 13)
ULTRA-PANAVISION B 
TECHNICOLOR 
FROM WARNER BROS.
and His Orchestra
Plus Comedian Dick Davy & Sir Walter, M.C,
TICKETS$3.50 - $4.50 - $5.50 Now on Sale at 
Hornes . . . Gimbels . . . Penn-Sheraton Tickets.Syria Mosque
Carnegie Tech Experimental Film Group Presents 
.. a program of..
EXPERIMENTAL & UNDERGROUND FILMS
Mekas & MarkopoulasAndy Warhol Award Presentation 
Mogubgub LimitedThe Pop Show 
Tom PalazzoloVenus & Adonis 
Pete WeinerBumblebird 
Marv GoldSuper Up 
Baum and LoCome Dance With Me 
Jiri TmkaSong of the Prairie 
also ... The Blue Bike, On the Edge ... and
by popular request, the return of 
Robert Nelsons Oh Dem Watermelons!
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8th, AT 4:30, 7:00 AND 9:00
SKIBO Ballroom . .. Carnegie Tech ... 75 Cents
William Wolf 
Cue Magatine
JANE PETER FONDA McENERY
in a film byROGER VADIMmarne
SDVER
(La Cure)
PANAVISION* TECHNICOLOR
National Society of Film Critics
A Carlo Ponti Production
Antonionis
Vanessa Redgrave
David Hemmings  Sarah Miles
COLOR
NO ONE UNDER 18 WILL BE ADMITTED 
UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT.
Recommended for 
mature audiencesWanda Hale. 
N. Y. Daily NewsA Premier Productions Co., Inc. Release
Something for Everjfone!^.
CHICAGO AMERICAN
An Achievement 
^ Of Mighty
Proportions!'
k -N. Y. POST
,JamesA. SwfochenerS 
THE NIISCH COKCOIIATION fBCSCNTS
JULIE ANDREWS MAX VON SYDOW RICHARD HARRIS
 THE GEOftCE OY HIU. WALTE* MIRISTM NUXH.CT10N o(HAWAI I *-rf,w.UNiTED ART1ST5
A MEtVfN fRANK ProductionT A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM
SUGGESTED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES
STEPHEN SONDHEIM Sows, 6UT SHEVEIOVEI LARRY GELBART 
X bj RtCHARO LESTER *<*i , UNITED ARTISTS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 1947-CARNEG1E TECH TARTAN-Page 3
Film And Forum Offer Meanings Of New Theology
Carnegie Techs Death of 
God program got under way 
last Thursday night with a 
teach-in in the ballroom in 
Skibo. Despite a conflict be
tween a basketball game and 
fraternity rush, over 250 stu
dents turned out to hear and 
participate in an open-ended 
discussion.
The program opened with a 
film dealing with Thomas J. J. 
Altizer and then three spokes
man presented a discussion on 
what significance and meaning 
the philosophy of the death of 
God has on them. Speaking were 
Father Andre Schuwer, Professor 
of philosophy at Duquesne Uni
versity, The Rev. Ralph Hagopian 
of the United Oakland Ministry, 
and Evan Melhado, senior, chem
istry. Following these talks the 
program got into discussion 
among some 250 individuals pres
ent, some individuals vehemently 
denying that God is dead or even 
unemployed.
Yesterday, Dr. Thomas Altizer 
spoke on The Christian Meaning 
of the Death of God. A full re
port of his talk and the dialogue 
with Rabbi Richard Rubenstein 
will appear in next weeks Tar
tan.
The series will continue next 
Tuesday, Feb. 14, with Prof. Eu
gene Fontinell. Prof. Fontinell 
will speak at 4:30 in the Skibo 
ballroom, his topic being A Ro
man Catholic Version of Radical 
Theology. A dinner will follow 
at 6:00 and students may sign up 
for it in the Y office, room 57, 
Skibo.
Books Available
Several books are available in 
the Tech Bookstore for those in
terested in doing some reading on 
the subject. Of particular inter
est and most highly recommended 
is Radical Theology and the Death 
of God by Thomas Altizer and 
William Hamilton, published by 
Bobbs-Merrill and priced at $1.85 
in paperback. Other books are 
God is Dead by K. Hamilton, pub
lished by Eerdmans in paperback; 
The Future of Belief by Dewart; 
The Death-of-God Controversy by 
T. Ogletree, published by Abing
don, $1.45 in paperback; Honest to 
God by JAT Robinson, published 
Westminister, $1.65 in paperback; 
and Letters and Papers from 
Prison by D. Bonhoeffer, publish
ed by Macmillan, $1.45 in paper
back. Also, another book by Alti
zer: The Gospel of Christian
Atheism, published by Westmin
ster, at $1.75 in paperback, is 
a principal work on the subject. 
Of particular interest to Tech stu
dents is a book by Rabbi Richard 
Rubenstein, chaplain to Jewish 
Students, entitled After Ausch
witz, published by Bobb-Merill.
The books by Hamilton, De
wart, and Ogletree present three 
different views: Hamilton, the
view of the conservative; De
wart, the view of Roman Catho
lic; Ogletree, the view of the lib
eral.
All of the above books may be 
also borrowed from the office of 
Religious affairs, Skibo 57, and 
from the Hunt Library.
Through The Looking Qlass ? ? .
From Here To All Seasons
by Tim Bay
TARTAN DEADLINES
COPY . . . Thursday 8 p.m. preferred;
Final Deadline Sunday 5 p.m.
ADVERTISING . . . Saturday 6 pjn. 
CLASSIFIED ADS... Sunday 6 p.m.
PROTESTANT
WORSHIP
AT
TECH
SUNDAYS - 11A.M.
39 SKIBO
Sponsored by 
the Methodist Campus Ministry
The film From Here to Eternity is one of those few rare cases 
when Hollywood, with uncharacteristic simplicity and taste, made 
c great movie out of a great book.
The film improved on James Jones novel; the sprawling novel 
of pre-World War II army life gained focus and power in this 1953 
film.
The locale is the U.S. army barracks, Honolulu; the time: 
those few peaceful, unsuspecting: days before the onslaught of 
Pearl Harbor and the War.
The hero Robert E. Lee Pruwitt, a recent transfer from another 
regiment, finds himself in conflict with his new commanding officer 
who demands that Pruwitt join the company boxing team. Pruwitt 
refuses; although a skillful fighter, since blinding a man in the 
ring, he has given up boxing. A wilful individualist, we watch how 
his honesty gets hits him into various complications, and eventually 
leads to his death. Along the way, a love interest develops (Don
na Reed); his best friend dies in a hair-raising night scene; and Burt 
Lancaster has a secret love affair with the Captains wife (Deborah 
Kerr). The film comes to a climax dramatically with the sudden 
Sunday morning attack of Pearl Harbor.
The movie ends on a note of resolute finality with the image 
of Kerr and Reed on board ship, leaving Hawaii, looking out on the 
receeding island.
(Continued on Page 10)
Clip this coupon 
and cut your fare in half.
If you're a student under 22, you can go half-fare 
almost anywhere Eastern goes with an Eastern 
Youth Fare ID card. Simply fill in the coupon. En
close proof of age, plus a $3.00 check or money 
order payable to Eastern Airlines.
If everything's in order, we'll send you your Youth
Fare ID card entitling you to fly coach on Eastern 
for half-fare anytime there's a seat available at 
departure time. The Youth Fare is not available for 
a few days during the Thanksgiving, Christmas and 
Easter holidays.
Now isn't that a great ID?
EASTERN
We want everyone to fly.
,\0 ovey.oCc Ov Ce Vc v \o . ^ <s0\e
w

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 8, 1967
Editorials . . .
Part-Time Employer
Employees who make under $1,000 for the calendar 
year while working in Pittsburgh are entitled to reclaim 
their $10 occupation tax deduction at the end of that year.
According to City officials, it is the responsibility of 
employers to inform their employees of this fact. And it 
seems that many employersCarnegie Tech, for onehave 
done a poor job.
Along with January pay checks, the college sent a no
tice regarding, among other things, the occupation tax re
fund. However, the notice did not explain that students 
would have to call the City for refund applications, nor did 
it tell student employees that they would have to pick up 
W-2 Wage and Tax Statement forms from the Assistant 
Treasurers office. Until last week, when a student informed 
school officials of tax refund procedures, the college had 
been sending students downtown to pick up their applica
tions. It had not realized that a phone call would suffice.
Other employers have not even bothered to send out 
their statements, which, by the way, do mention the refund, 
and, because many part-time employees know nothing about 
these statements, the City will get to keep much of the 
money that it should refund.
The occupation tax refund instructions should be in
cluded on the OT-2 form (this is the form that is sent to all 
employees by the City Treasurer as a receipt of the tax 
payment). Since most students working part-time will make 
under $1,000 during this year, they are interested in and 
entitled to a refund of the $10 tax, for this may represent 
a large percentage of their part-time income. Although the 
city is largely at fault, it is imperative that Carnegie Tech, 
as an employer, inform its employees of the procedures that 
are necessary for obtaining this refund.
Carnegie Tech must assume responsibility as an em
ployer to inform all employees, including students who work 
or have worked part-time, of all matters concerning taxes 
and wages. The Tartan urges the Assistant Treasurers 
Office to utilize more efficient methods of communication 
than word-of-mouth. Several methods can be used, such as 
announcements on bulletin boards around campus and in the 
cashiers office, letters of explanation (which could be in
cluded in pay envelopes,) sent to all employees, and perhaps 
an article in the Tartan at the appropriate time of year. ....
Landlord Or Father?
The conflict between Mens Dorm Council arid the Ad
ministrations Disciplinary Committee resurrects two longneglected questions of administrative policy at Tech. What 
is the exact relationship between the school and the student 
self-governing bodies like MDC, Student Senate, and 
AWS?
Consider the first question. School-operated housing is 
either simply a convenience for students, having little ef
fect on their academic experience, or it is an integral part 
of the educational process.
If school housing is just a convenience and doesnt 
really influence what a student learns, then the relationship 
between school and student in the housing area should be 
that of landlord and tenant, with the school assuming all the 
prerogatives and responsibilities of a landlord.
This means that the school would deal directly with all 
problems of damage or disturbance in the dorms, just as a 
landlord does. Tenants with complaints about living condi
tions could appeal directly to the school, making organiza
tions like MDC unnecessary. (The Welch Hall case, and 
many other down problems, could be handled faster and 
more efficiently if they didnt have to go through MDC.)
The landlord-tenant relation also implies, though, that 
the school could not force any students, even freshmen, to 
live in its housing. Further, it implies that as a commercial 
landlord, the school might have to consider changing many 
of its outdated rules in the dorms, such as no opposite-sex 
visiting in either mens or womens dorms, and ten oclock 
weeknight curfews for freshman women, so as not to be 
considered archaic as landlords go.
Now, however, assume the other answerthat school 
housing, and extracurricular living conditions in general, 
are meant to be part of the total educational experience. 
This assumption leads into the second question originally 
posed.
Anyone who thinks dorm life is an integral part of the 
educational process at Tech is out of touch with reality. 
Dorm life, and student life outside the classroom in general, 
is educational only if the student is indeed to exercise per
sonal responsibility and to involve himself in a democratic 
self-governing social system.
Tech students do not assume social responsibility, nor 
do they take seriously student governing bodies like MDC,
Brown Defends Reversal, 
Higher Court Concept
Last week, the Administrations Disciplinary Commit
tee reversed Mens Dorm Councils action on the case of 
four men charged with disturbing the peace in Welch Hall.
Originally, the men had been 
ordered by Dean Swank, Dean of 
Men, to move out of the dorms. 
They appealed the move to the 
Disciplinary Committee, which 
nullified Swanks decision beEnglish Series Views Modern American Work
The English Department 
Lecture Series began yester
day in the Carnegie Theater 
of the Fine Arts Building 
as associate professor John 
A. Hart spoke on Shakes
peares The Merchant of Ven
ice. The three remaining lec
tures will center around the 
theme of American Litera
ture in the 20th Century.
Dr. Harts choice of plays coin
cides with the Drama Depart
ments selection of The Merchant 
of Venice as this years Shakesperean production.
Associate Professor Donald M. 
Goodfellow on Feb. 14 will ex
amine the work of novelist Sin
clair Lewis, author of such fa
mous wcrks as Main Street and 
Arrowsmith.
February 28 has been set aside 
for Assistant Professor James K. 
Hastie, whose topic will be poet 
Wallace Stevens.
On March 14 Assistant Profes
sor Lois S. Josephs will close the 
fcur-part series of Tuesday lec
tures with a discussion of Edward 
Albee, young playwright who gain
ed renown with Whos Afraid of 
Virginia Woolf? and Tiny Alice.
All members of the Carnegie 
Tech Community are invited to 
the lectures.
cause the men had not had a 
trial before MDC.
MDC tried the case, and 
found one man innocent, or
dered two men out of the dor
mitory system, and ordered the 
fourth man to move out of 
Welch and into another dorm, 
with he stipulation that he 
would be removed completely 
from the dormitory system if 
he caused further trouble.
The men appealed to the Dis
ciplinary Committee, which re
viewed MDCs decisions and then 
changed the sentences of the three 
men found guilty. All three were 
moved out of Welch and into 
another dorm, with the under
standing that further violations of 
dorm rules could result in more 
serious action, such as removal 
from school.
Higher Court Needed
Upon hearing of the Commit
tees decision, Ron Haan, presi
dent of Welch, who initiated pro
ceedings against the men, claimed 
that the Committees overruling 
of the MD decision makes it 
useless for us to sit in Dorm 
Council for hours listening to peo
ple and making decisions.
See Editorial, 
Landlord or Father?, this page
George Brown, Dean of Student 
Affairs and a member of the Dis
ciplinary Committee, answered 
that in every system there must 
be some higher court to which 
a denfendant can appeal, just 
as in the United States courts, 
one can appeal all the way up 
to Supreme Court. Brown said 
that in hearing the case, the 
Committee kept in mind Dorm 
Councils decision and its reason
ing behind that decision, and 
tried to act, as always, in accord
ance with the Carnegie view of 
education.
Rush 
Opener
(Continued from Page 1)
cause gradually, I got the feel
ing I was missing a lot. Stu
dents at Tech, he says, are like- i 
ly to be strongly interested in 
some kind of intellectual pur
suit, and social development 
tends to take a back seat ... .1 
learned a lot in the fraternity, 
not only about how to get along 
with other people in the group, 
but about how to run a business.
Fraternities offer great op- *! 
portunities to develop mean
ingful relationships, says 
Young. They also offer a per
son great opportunities to frit
ter away a lot of timeIF he is 
predisposed to do so.
They do make some demands 
on individual freedom, he said, 
but most Carnegie Tech frater
nities do not stifle individuality. 1 
Young closed by admonishing, 
Dont be afraid to admit that 
seme fraternity activities are 
fun .... its not all character 
development and educational 
processes.
Personal Decision
Both Swank and Young warned 
the freshmen to discard all their  
preconceptions about fraternities 
and find out for themselves. 
Said Swank, I hope you wont 
make your decision on the basis 
of what some confirmed non
conformist on this campus has 
told you, because chances are he 
dosent know too much about this 
system either .... the frater
nities here are not like fraterni
ties at Penn State or anywhere 
else.
The two men fielded questions 
from the floor after their talks.
As to what to look for dur
ing rush, Swank said talk to the 
people .... the important thing 
is not whether the floors are 
cleanly waxed. Young claimed 
that what fraternities look for 
in rushees is new members . .
. . . with new points of view and 
new attitudes.
The Administration does not 
set academic standards for fra
ternities, according to Swank, 
because the fraternity is a so
cial organization .... academic 
goals are pretty much a mat
ter for the individual chapter 
to decide.
One student asked about frater
nities and fine arts students. 
Swank answered that it is not 
now the College of Fine Arts 
policy to discourage fraternity 
membership, and the fraternities 
themselves realize the great demarids on time the Fine Arts Col
lege makes, and are willing to 
make very great concessions to 
permit fine art students to join.
Addressing Fine Arts students 
directly, Swank said You have 
responsibilities as members of 
that college to meet with, talk 
with, and find out about students 
with activities and interests dif
ferent from yours.
The final question of the even
ing was, Just how degrading is 
pledging? Answered Young, 
Very few of them perish.
WRCT
RECITAL HALL
2 p.m.Sundays
This week:
Phi Mu Alpha Jazz Band
oarnegle tech__IPmTARTAN W
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor.......................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.......................................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor.................................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor........................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor...........................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager........................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor .................................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor..........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor...............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.........Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Stoff: Henrik Und, Barbara Moms, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Stoff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille Badzgon, Chipper Monk 
OFFICES: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Phone 682-4557. 
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Coo per man, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Midhael Cramer, Eilen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausier, Patti Lewis, Lanle London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Ginny 
McKelvy, Harriet Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Ivan M Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, 
Jane Mer^k.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY 
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Clbss Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
_________Represented for notional advertising by Notional Advertising, Inc.
(Continued on Page 9)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 1 967-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 5
Trees Leveled 
Due To Disease
Editor, the Tartan:
The sycamore or oriented plane 
trees on Frew Street that were 
cut down during the Christmas 
vacation period were on city 
property,. They were cut down 
by the City Forestry Department. 
These trees were infected with 
canker stain disease. It is anti
cipated that other similar trees on 
the Campus will, in time, be cut 
down for the same reason. Plans 
are being made to replace these 
trees according to a master plant
ing plan which is being developed 
by the Campus Landscaping Arch
itect.
Physical Plant Department
Correction On 
Caltech Dates
Editor, the Tartan:
Your editorial (Jan. 11 issues) 
makes slightly erroneous refer
ence to Caltechs academic calen
dar. Caltech is on the quarter sys
tem and, except for a two-day 
weekend, there is no reading per
iod between the end of classes and 
finals week.
The first quarter begins late in 
Sept. continues for 12 weeks, and 
ends with a two-week break for 
Christmas. Second quarter begins 
the first Monday after New Year, 
and runs 11 weeks. There is a 
one-week break - alas! rarely at 
Easter - followed by third quarter. 
This lasts ten weeks for seniors 
and graduate students and 11 
weeks for all others. (No classes 
are held during the summer quar
ter.)
The first day of each quarter 
(normally a Monday) is devoted 
to registration, and the last week 
to final exams. Since most stu
dents exams are over in two or 
three daystwo each day till 
theyre done  breaks between 
quarters are usually lengthened 
beyond the nominal time.
Pressure under this system can 
be brutal, but since balance lies 
in having breaks between rather 
than during quarters. Also, many 
students and instructors prefer the 
more intensive quarter to the longer semester.
A. L. Swedlow 
Assistant Professor, 
Mechanical Engineering
Pool Closed 
During Exams
Editor, Tartan:
On Saturday morning, Jan. 14, 
we all had finals. That afternoon, 
we wanted to relax and go for a 
swim at the Tech pool. When we 
got there, about 3:00, we were 
told by the custodian that the 
Pool was not available and he 
would be leaving soon anyhow. 
The only part of the gym that 
was open was the main gym 
and Thistle Hall for exams. While 
we realize that exams are important, we also believe that what
ever facilities possible should be
made available to students who 
would like to take a' break from 
the grind of studying.
If Tech in its newr merger with 
Mellon will be worth 160 million 
dollars, it seems that there should 
be a few dollars available on 
Saturday to hire a life guard and 
keep a custodian around. A group 
with its own life guard should be 
able to swim with only a custo
dian around.
David Shaffer 
Daniel L. Whitehead 
Barry S. Newberger 
James A. Rose Jr.
Leslie W. Kania
Reserve Flag 
For VIPs
Editor, the Tartan:
Every week as I head from 
Morewood to class I see a strange 
sight: the flag at half mast.
At first I thought that the flagpuller-upper had become tired 
half way through and just stop
ped.
After more investigation, how
ever, I found that the half mast 
flag signified the death of some
one. Once it was a janitor, once 
a teacher, once Mr. Hunt. But 
most of the time I did not know 
for whom the flag was lowered. 
Again today the flag flies at half 
mast. Perhaps the husband of a 
secretarys brothers wifes aunt 
died, or perhaps one of the maids, 
or a student, or perhaps the pul
ler-upper developed severe back 
strain.
The point Im trying to make 
is that the flag is lowered so often 
it loses significance.
The flag is a symbol of our na
tion, and as such should only be 
lowered when a figure of national 
prominence dies, such as Presi
dent Kennedy, Adlai Stevenson, 
or a great man such as Albert 
Schweitzer.
Or perhaps we should leave the 
flag permanently at half mast to 
honor the men fighting and dying 
in Vietnam, or children who die 
of disease or hunger each day, 
or old people who die of old age, 
or ones who die in automobile ac
cidents. In other words, in order 
to honor all those who die each 
day.
But this is not done on a na
tionwide basis, and it probably 
would be too hard to show that 
this is what was meant.
So instead, why not let the 
flag be raised and lowered as in 
other parts of the country to hon
or national figures?
If the administration feels it 
must somehow honor staff mem
bers who die, why not use some 
kind of school flag?
But the United States Flag at 
half mast should be reserved for 
national mourning.
Linda G. Eyster 
Sophomore, Chemistry
War Wont Solve 
Viet Problems
Editor, the Tartan:
I am writing in response to the 
YAF statement in the Jan. 10th 
Tartan. I think that it should be 
quite unfortunate if your paper 
did not print some of the opinions 
of people who are basically op
posed to the type of statement put 
out by the YAF, and opposed to 
the whole United States policy in 
Southeast Asia. There is another 
train of thought on this problem, 
one which is completely opposed 
to the YAF policy. I think it im
perative that the Tech commun
ity be presented this argument 
and be allowed to form its own 
opinion on the basis of differing 
views of the matter. I do not pre
tend to be a spokesman for any 
particular group or ideology, but 
rather I am presenting my own 
opinions, and my interpretation 
of the opinions of people with 
whom I have come in contact and 
whom I respect and admire.
I deplore the use of violence 
in any form, and I reject the 
theory that any person or nation 
could or should interfere in the 
basic right of another individual 
or nation to formulate its future 
as it sees fit. It is upon this basis 
that my remarks are framed.
The situation that has develop
ed in Southeast Asia since the 
end of World War II is basically 
political in nature and as such 
has never been, is not now, and 
never will be, amenable to a 
military solution. It is the strug
gle of a brave and free people 
to rid themselves of foreign in
tervention and colonialism. It is 
their struggle to express their 
national identity to the world, 
and to work out on their own 
what their destiny will be. One 
has only to read the reports that 
Harrison E. Salisbury has written 
from Hanoi to get an idea of how 
brave and determined these peo
ple are. The people of the DRV 
(Democratic Republic of Vietnam, 
the name Ho Chi Minhs followers 
have given to their country.) 
have had one of the mightiest 
military machines in the world 
thrust upon them and there is no 
indication that they are not will
ing to fight it by every means 
possible until it is no longer a 
threat to their peace and sover
eignty.
Consider what has happened in 
the much heralded Iron Triangle 
near Saigon. American and ARVN 
(Army of the Republic of Viet
nam) troops have converged on 
the area and literally destroyed it 
and made it unfit for human hab
itation. For weeks there was in
discriminate bombing of the area, 
then bulldozers were moved in 
and the jungle was leveled. Not 
only was the jungle leveled, but 
whole hamlets, villages, and towns 
were utterly destroyed and with 
them rice paddies and rubber 
trees. More then 600 bodies were 
counted and called Communist, 
more than 5000 people were forced 
to move off the land their families 
had owned for centuries, into refu
gee camps. And why? Whatever
the reason, I cannot see that any 
possible gain is worth this suffer
ing, this degradation of human 
spirit and dignity. For more than
20 years these people had lived 
peacefully with the Viet Cong; 
they were able to feed them
selves, raise their crops and their 
children, and earn a living. But 
a man cannot survive when a 
bomb falls on him, he cannot 
feed hungry mouths from rice 
fields that have been bulldozed 
into oblivion. Surely Hitlers in
vasion of Poland couldnt have 
been more senseless, surely his 
treatment of the Jews could not 
have been more inhumane than 
what the ARVN and the Amer
icans do to Viet Cong and sus
pected Viet Cong prisoners.
Why? Why? That is the ques
tion I am asking you.
I dont think there is a vast 
conspiracy at work in Asia, I 
dont think that the vital interest 
of the United States is threatened 
by what happens in Vietnam, or 
that the United States should in
tervene militarily in the political 
situation in Asia. I think that 
China is perfectly willing to let 
all countries exist peacefully on 
its borders. Mr. Salisbury conclud
ed as a result of talking with high 
officials in Hanoi that the DRV 
is fiercely independent of China 
and Russia, and that the NLF is 
quite independent of the DRV. 
He thus concludes that the war in 
the South began as a spontaneous 
uprising totally unrelated to any 
foreign aggression upon South 
Vietnam. I think that the only 
way that the vital interest of the 
United States is threatened in 
Vietnam is by our pouring billions 
of dollars into the war there, to 
the neglect of our urban centers 
and other problems caused by 
poverty and incomplete integra
tion of people of all colors into 
American life.
What is my solution? I have 
none. I think that the only way 
the problem of Vietnam can ever 
be faced is for the thinking of 
each American citizen to return 
to the ideals of the founders of 
this country and to come in line 
with what our government says 
our mission in the world is. The 
American people must come to 
believe iif the idea of freedom for 
all people, the right of each na
tion to manage itself without fore
ign interference, and of each per
son to have a voice in the govern
ment that rules him. Then proba
bly the most important for a tech
nological age, they must become 
completely willing to let anyone 
who so wishes, practice socialism.
I think that there are some spe
cific immediate actions that this 
attitude implies. Here I am only 
repeating those things that such 
people as U Thant, Pope Paul, 
Edwin Reischauer, a former am
bassador to Japan and perhaps 
the foremost American student of 
Asia, Senator Fullbright, Ho Chi 
Minh, and others have said. First 
ox all we must stop the bombing 
in the North, unequivocally and 
unilaterally, without prior assur
ances that anything would result 
from this action. We must stop 
the influx of men into the South
and stop the escalation of the 
fighting. We must indicate a com
plete willingness to negotiate with 
the NLF as a legitimate repre
sentative of at least a portion of 
the South and show that the NLF 
would be an integral part of any 
collation government resulting 
from the negotiations. Finally we 
must give assurances that the 
American military will immedi
ately begin to move out of Viet
nam.
Why do I take such a stand? 
Just as the YAF says its patriot
ism demands a wider war in Asia, 
my patriotism demands that I 
oppose the war. I oppose it in 
the light of what it is doing to 
the people of all of Asia. I oppose 
it in the light of what it is doing 
to the people of the United States, 
where every citizen is becoming 
increasingly infected with the 
spirit of war and has grown prac
tically immune to moral judg
ments concerning the killing of 
anyone to whom our government 
attaches the label Communists, 
and where greater burdens are 
brought to bear upon the poor 
who must carry the weight of 
increased taxes in addition to pro
viding most of the fighting men. 
I also oppose it in the light of 
what it is doing to the world opin
ion of the United States.
My plea is that people every
where be free to live as they 
choose, that people everywhere 
be free from napalm and TNT, 
that rice fields everywhere be al
lowed to grow and feed people. 
My plea is that each American, 
and especially those of the Tech 
academic community, consider 
very carefully what their govern
ment is doing in Southeast Asia, 
and take action according to his 
best analysis of all the facts of 
the situation. My plea echoes that 
of Pope Paul, In the name of 
God, stop.
Glenn N. Grannemann 
Physics Department
Modern Films 
(Continued from Page 2) 
Gregory Markopoulos Award 
Presentation to Andy Warhol, 
a short parody of Warhol films, 
starring Andy Warhol. Also 
scheduled is Mogubgubs Pop 
Show, an examination of our 
pop culture. An earlier Mogubgub film, Enter Hamlet, is 
now being shown at New Yorks 
Lincoln Center, and at the Mu
seum of Modern Art.
Three films by Chicago film
makers will be shown: Venus 
and Adonis, by Tom Palazzolo, 
Bumblebird, a satirical com
ment on Our Man In The White 
House of Peter Weiner, and Super-UP, first-prize winner at the 
Tokyo Film Festival, by Marv 
Gold, whose film Nightsong 
took first prize at the Cannes 
Festival.
Song of the Prairie, by the 
great Polish film animator Jan. 
Trnka will also be shown. Others 
scheduled include: Come Dance 
With Me, The Blue Bike, and 
Curtis Harrington's classic On 
the Edge.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 8, 1967

Right now theres a shortage of trained Water 
Management Specialists. By 1980, that shortage 
may become critical. That is why Calgon Corpo
ration needs at least 30 chemists and chemical 
engineers to start training  to become tomor
rows managers.
Calgon Corporation is a leader in the water 
management field. It pioneered the concept of 
water management and helped establish many 
of its disciplines. Calgon can offer you the kind 
of personal training that treats you as an indi
vidual, that gives you an opportunity to show 
what you can do.
How we train
chemical engineers and chemists
First, you will get three to six months training 
that will include classroom work, on-the-job train
ing with a field engineer and department rotation. 
Then, a district office assignment, where you will 
assume responsibility for practical application of 
what you learned in training.
Other opportunities
Calgon serves many markets  providing water 
management consulting service, chemicals and 
chemical feeding and control equipment. We 
help utilities, industry, the oilfield and municipal 
plants keep water usable. Calgon serves other 
markets, too, such as the air conditioning, plumb
ing, food and food service industries. We also 
market products for homemakers. Pittsburgh 
Activated Carbon Company, a subsidiary, offers 
unique opportunities in application of activated 
carbon for industrial and municipal uses.
With this diversified line of products and serv
ices we also have opportunities for graduates in 
the field of business administration and in all 
phases of engineering. If you have at least 16 
hours of chemistryregardless of your major 
we would be interested in talking to you.
At Calgon, you will find individual opportuni
ties in sales, engineering research or administra
tive work. For more details, use the coupon or 
write to Ross C. Cibella, Personnel Manager.
i---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mr. Ross C. Cibella, Personnel Manager
Calgon Corporation
P.O. Box 1346, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15230
Mr. Cibella, I am interested in learning more 
about the opportunities at Calgon Corporation.
My field of interest is:
Name___________________________
Address________________.
City_____________________________
State________________________Zip.
Mr. Robert W. Provost,
Assistant Personnel Manager, 
will be interviewing at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
on February 15, 1967.
Calgon Corporation needs 
30 more chemists and chemical engineers 
to help make sure there will be.
go around?
By 1980
will there be enough usable water to
Helping America answer the challenging problems of water

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 19<57-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 7
CHASE'S
5432 WALNUT STREET, 5HADYSIDE
Hours: 10 a.m.9 p.m. and Sat.: 10 a.m.5 p.m. 
For Information  Call: 421-1025
JOHN M. R0BKIS' SON
Anthone Review
The Game IsOver...
BeforeIts Begun
by Tony Lawrence
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
BETHLEHEM
STEELTHfSTTw
oda
on 
February 16, 1967
For work in: Process and Product Research 
and Development, Engineering Research and 
Development, Engineering, Technical Service, 
Chemical Manufacturings Construction, Pro
cess Control, Computer Activities, Process & 
Product Marketing, and Market Research and 
Economics.
Pittsburgh429 Wood St. 
Mt. Lebanon- -731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
Sign up for interviews at the PLACEMENT OFFICE
FREESTEAK
ENTERTAINMENT
Stelson, Alcoa Prof, Wins 
Young Engineer Award
Alcoa Professor of Engineering Thomas E. Stelson, 
head of the civil engineering department at Carnegie Tech, 
received the Pittsburgh Young Civil Engineer of the Year 
Award on Tuesday, January 17.
BETHLEHEM 
STEEL
THE GAME IS OVER is Roger Vadims creation and I felt that 
he wasnt quite sure just exactly where he was going with it. The 
result is that, aside from some well-selected cheesecake shots of his 
wife (Jane Fonda) and some rather nice photography, the film falls 
short of being much. The plot (based upon an Emile Zola novel) 
is sort of a pot purr i of Phaedra and Room at the Top, combined with 
occasional Fellini-like sequences.
The story is about a wealthy French industrialist who has mar
ried an equally wealthy young woman (Jane Fonda). She is in her 
late twenties or early thirties and falls hopelessly in love with her 
husbands 22-year-old son, played by Peter McEnery. The existing 
marriage is in name only and Renee (Miss Fonda) wants a divorce 
to marry Maxine (Mr. McEnery). The father, realizing only too well 
that they have been bed partners, tells his son that he must be
come engaged to a well-to-do-bankers daughter. The idea is that 
this union will form a strong monetary alliance, saving the family 
business and insuring Renees financial welfare, both of which will 
otherwise fail. Renee knows nothing of this, and Maxime, believing 
that his fathers motives are purely altruistic, goes ahead with the 
plan. In the meanwhile, Renee has heard of this plot and returns 
home to find that the man she is getting divorced for is betrothed 
to another. Afraid of her making a scene at an elaborate engagement 
party arranged for the young people, the father leads her quietly 
upstairs to sit on a chair in the small gymnasium where she had so
desperately tried to conserve her youth. The film ends at this point.
The three actors are adequate enough. The dialog was general
ly vapid. There was even a we cant go on like this. All of this 
made the picture in addition to being a family affair, a dull one too. 
The film may currently be seen at the King Court Theatre in Oak
land.
his B.S. in civil enginering in 
1949, his M.S. in 1950, and his
D.Sc. in 1952 at which time he 
was appointed to the faculty of 
the College of Engineering and 
Science at Tech. He was named 
head of the civil engineering 
department in 1959 and co-di
rector of the Transportation 
Research Institute in 1966. His 
major areas of interest are in 
fluid mechanics, hydraulics, 
foundation engineering, soil 
mechanics, and solid mechan
ics.
UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS COMPANYwill be interviewing
B.S. & MS. CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
The second recipient of this 
annual award, Dr. Stelson was 
selected for his outstanding con
tributions to the civil engineer
ing profession. One of the qualifi
cations for the award is that the 
recipient be under 40 years of 
age. Dr. James P. Romualdi, pro
fessor of civil engineering and 
director of the Transportation Re
search Institute at Tech, was the 
first to be granted this honor.
Dr. Stelson received all of 
his undergraduate and grad
ate education at Tech. He earnDOM TORIELLO
(B.S.Met.E.) of the 
Bethlehem Steel Loop 
Course knows where the 
action is. Hes on the move 
at the nations largest 
steel plantour 
Sparrows Point Plant 
near Baltimore, Md.
Join the action.
First step: pick up 
a copy of "Careers 
with Bethlehem Steel 
and the Loop Course 
at your placement 
office. Then sign up 
for a campus interview.
Our 1967 Loop Class 
has openings for technical 
and non-technical graduates 
(and post-grads) for 
careers in steel operations, 
research, sales, mining, 
accounting, and other 
activities.
Auditions Set For Music Dept. Concerto Night
Auditions for solo appearances 
with the Carnegie College Com
munity Orchestra will be held on 
Tuesday, Feb. 28, at 3:00 pm in 
Room 103 of the Fine Arts Build
ing.
These auditions will be limit
ed to juniors, subseniors and 
seniors of the Department of 
Music and to members of the 
orchestra who are not enrolled 
in the Music Department.
Music Department applicants 
must be in good academic stand
ing and have written permission 
from their private instructors to 
enter auditions.
Applicants must be prepared to 
play at least one movement of 
a published solo work written for 
their particular instrument. This 
work must be one that originally 
was conceived for solo with or
chestral accompaniment by the 
composer.
In the case of strings, wind in
struments, or voice, piano accom
paniments at the audition are ad
visable but not obligatory.
An attempt will be made to rep
resent and include all instrument 
and voice categories for the con
cert.
The concert will be on April 16,
1967.
Judges for the auditions are 
Maurice Laney, Chairman, Ru
dolph Fellner, Helen Gossard, and 
Donald Wilkins.
Ixcluve at ^oleri
............PRICE $275
A diamond solataire engagement ring, etherial in design, 
named for a Greek Goddess. In 18 kt. White Gold, die 
struck mounting. World's finest diamonds to fit your 
budget.
Terms arranged
SVS Workers
Scotch n Soda is looking for 
people to work on sets, props, and 
lighting for this Springs produc
tion, Pippin, Pippin. Students in
terested in this work can attend 
an organizational meeting Mon
day, Feb. 13, at 4:30 pm in Skibo 
54.
ATTENTION: Faculty & Students 
SAVE 40yo on Furniture
Bedrooms, Diningrooms, 
Livingrooms 
Mattresses On Display 
at Nearby Wholesale Warehouse
1000 NEW 9 X12 RUGS
$15 TO $59
Also 6x9*1, 9x15'sf 12x15'$, Etc

---------------------------------------------------

On Campus Interviews
for
Professional Career Programs
February 16 and 17,1967
RCA is now undergoing the greatest 
expansion of its history, based on a 
wide diversification of products and 
services. This has opened up opportu
nities for BS, AB and Advanced Degree 
candidates in the following programs:
COMPUTER MARKETING requires individ
uals with good academic standing and 
a degree in engineering, science, mathe
matics, liberal arts, or business admin
istration, with an interest in computer 
systems and sales.
ENGINEERING for the engineer or scientist 
interested in research, development, de
sign, manufacturing engineering, pur
chasing or materials management. 
There are two possible avenues for 
the individual chosen: Engineering
Rotational Program will help you decide 
in which directions your career apti
tudes lie. Direct Assignment for the 
person who knows his chosen field of 
interest.
FINANCIAL for the graduate with an inter
est in financial management and the 
applications of the computer in the field 
of finance.
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS re
quires individuals in engineering, sci
ence, mathematics with an interest in 
systems design and programming ap
plications in the broad financial areas 
of RCAs businesses.
See your placement officer now to ar
range an interview with an RCA 
representative.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
THE MOST TRUSTED NAME IN ELECTRONICS
DuPont Money Aids Teaching, 
Research Gifts
Carnegie Tech has receiv
ed $15,000 for fundamental 
research and the advance
ment of teaching in the phys
ical sciences and engineering 
from the E. I. duPont de 
Nemours Corporation under 
the companys Aid to Educa
tion program.
Receiving grants from duPont 
were Techs departments of chem
istry, chemical engineering and 
mechanical engineering. Besides 
research and teaching grants, the 
duPont gift included a postgrad
uate teaching assistant award in 
chemistry and a summer grant 
for teachers in mechanical engi
neering.
Under the terms of the duPont 
grant, Techs departments of 
chemistry, chemical engineering, 
and mechanical engineering can 
use the funds to strengthen their 
undergraduate programs through 
the purchase of books, supplies, 
equipment and apparatus; finance 
research beyond the normal re$2000 Poetry Contest Opens
Entries will be accepted be
tween Feb. 1 and April 1 for the 
International Poetry Forums first 
annual United States Award, 
which will offer $2,000 in cash 
and publication of the winning 
manuscript of poetry.
Poets who have never publish
ed their work are invited to sub
mit a book-length manuscript of 
poems by April 1, and the win
ners will be named by Oct. 1. 
The University of Pittsburgh 
Press will publish the selected 
manuscript.
Entries will be judged by Amer
ican poets James Dickey, Abbie 
Huston Evans, and William Mer
edith. Manuscripts should be 
mailed to the International Poe
try Forums United States Award, 
University of Pittsburgh Press, 
3309 Cathedral of Learning, Pitts
burgh 15213. Inquiries should also 
be directed to the University of 
Pittsburgh Press, 621-3500.
sources of the departments; pro
vide faculty stipends for scholar
ly activities; and to encourage 
promising graduate assistants to 
make college teaching a career.
Blow-Up...
(Continued, from Page 2) 
faces driving through the Lon
don morning. Their antics are 
inter-cut with our introduc
tion to the photographer who 
remains nameless through the 
film.
This scene takes place in a 
ccurt-yard of foreboding institu
tional edifice. Out of the heavy 
prison-like doors come an assort
ment of worn and tattered men. 
The scene is evocative of grimy 
age, but in the group is a tattered 
young man with fashionable long 
unkempt hair and an angelic face, 
clutching a brown paper bag: 
the Mod rebelthe Chelsea boy 
who has become a symbol of a 
type of exuberance associated not 
only with the Beatles and the 
Stones but with something slight
ly wild and free and empty and 
perverse.
Frames of reference begin to 
change: the tattered boy walks 
to a Rolls convertible parked 
away from the court-yard and 
drives off; out of the paper bag 
comes an expensive camera. What 
weve seen is masquerade. His 
masquerade is sharpened by the 
group in white face who are 
making a general loud nuisance 
of themselves. The photographer 
tips them as he drives home to 
his studio.
The film then records a 24-hour 
span in the life of the young man. 
From his digs, he is obviously 
successful. From the models he 
photographs, he is obviously high 
style. From his being pestered 
by two 15-16 year old birds, he 
obviously represents something 
in. Now. A Mary Quint or Vidal 
Sassoon or, wellyes, Vanessa 
Redgrave. What happens this day 
might just as well have happen
ed yesterday or tomorrow, but 
because the moment is important 
the future and past have no more 
meaning than the antiques in a 
junk shop.
The happening that disting
uishes this day begins with the 
anxiety the photographer causes 
to a young woman he photo
graphs in a park as she walks 
with an older man who is per
haps her husband, her lover, 
her mark. The girl is agitated 
to the point of violence and 
she appears later at his studio 
offering herself in return for 
the roll of film. The photo
grapher is not as interested in 
her physical presence as he is 
in the image of her that he 
wishes to put on film. He pla
cates her with an empty roll 
of film and when it seems we 
might learn something about 
her, she leaves. In an attempt 
to solve her mystery, the photo
grapher develops the film.
This sequence is the heart of 
the 'film. It is also a cinematic 
tour de force. Out of a series of 
blow-ups of two people in the 
park a mystery greater than the 
girl herself develops. Why did 
the girl pull the man into a 
specific place before she would 
allow him to kiss her? Why is 
she looking over her shoulder 
when the man does embrace her? 
What does the look on her face 
mean? Antonioni, however, has 
not as much cheated the germ of 
a mysterya Rear Window thril
ler, but has created a metaphor 
of appearance and reality. How 
much like the film director cre
ating a sequence of a film-mani
pulating time-space to illicit a 
reactionis the photographer ar
ranging the blow-ups so the scene 
he photographed in the park 
takes on meaning entirely differ
ent than context.
The professional voyeur is 
not trying to photograph peo
ple, he is attempting to re-cre
ate life with his camera. Ex
amples of his work present the
(Continued on Page 9)
Page 8CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 8, 1967
Eberhart Gives Matinee Reading
When Richard Eberhart, Pulit
zer Prize-winning poet for 1966, 
presents a special 4 pm reading of 
his own works before the Interna
tional Poetry Forum on Wednes
day, Feb. 15, attendance may de
termine whether the Forum will 
plan matinees regularly next sea
son, in addition to the usual 8:30 
p.m. performances.
Both the 4 pm and 8:30 pm Eb
erhart readings will be held at 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland.
Richard Eberhart won the Pulit
zer in poetry for his Selected 
Poems: 1930-1965. He served as 
consultant in poetry at the Library 
of Congress from 1959 through 
1961, and is currently professor of 
English and poet-in-residence at 
Dartmouth College.
Tickets for both performances 
are available at Kaufmanns, 
Horn es and the University of 
Pittsburgh Book Center. For group 
ticket information, contact the 
Forum office, Carnegie Library in 
Oakland, 621-9893. Persons now 
holding 8:30 pm tickets who would 
prefer to exchange them for the 
matinee should also call the For
um.
Museum Shows 
Montreal Works
One hundred and two paintings 
from The Montreal Museum of 
Fine Arts, Canadas oldest art in
stitution, are being shown at the 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, 
through March 5, in the 2nd floor 
exhibition galleries.
Included in the Masterpieces 
from Montreal exhibition are 
works by Boudin, Brueghel, Can
aletto, Corot, Constable, Courbet, 
Daumier, Delacroix, Gains
borough, Goya, El Greco, de 
Heem, Hofmann, Hogarth, Man
tegna, Matisse, Monet, Pissarro, 
Raeburn, Rembrandt, Renoir, Ri
bera, Rouault, van Ruisdael, Sis
ley, Strozzi, Tiepolo, Tintoretto, 
and Utrillo.
Under the patronage of Cana
das Governor-General Georges P. 
Vanier and Mme. Vanier, the ex
hibition is being circulated in sev
en American cities as a prologue 
and invitation to Expo 67 to be 
held this year in Montreal.
Special illustrated catalogues 
have been prepared for the show 
by The Montreal Museum of Fine 
Arts.
Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. daily. Sunday hours are 2 
p.m. to 5 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 197CARNEGIE TECH TARTANPage 9
Blow-Up ?..
(Continued from Page 8)
photograph that relates a froz
en sensitivity; the photograph 
that preys on life waiting for 
that moment when a person is 
most exposed.
The camera is more than a ma
chine to him. It is an organ, 
something sexual, a part of him
self that assures his place in the 
world. Without his camera, he is 
not alive or complete. What ap
pears to the audience as truth is 
often only another masquerade 
__ another fantasy. Even the 
photographs which we accept as 
reality are placed in a configura
tion that might only be a fan
tasy. By the time the final blow
up is obtained, the image is dif
fuse and undefined. Like a non
objective painting, it becomes 
what you want it to be.
Antonioni himself is a photogiapherthat superman of the 
camera obscura known as the 
movie director. By the time the 
film is overit runs a little under 
two hours  the photographer 
has exposed his emptiness, his 
perversity, his sadism, his sex
ual fantasies, his body without 
a soul to the celluloid, on which 
the images are recorded. An An
tonioni film at its best is a series 
of images accentuated by words. 
In an Antonioni film a characters 
eloquence is not necessarily the 
way to his soul. An Antonioni 
character is so complete a crea
tion that you can guess what 
kind of cologne he wears. (At 
least I think I know what per
fume Monica Vitti wore in LVen
tura although I cant remember 
the name of the character por
trayed.) David Hemmings plays 
a character without a nameor, 
if he has one, I didnt catch it. 
Vanessa Redgrave plays a wom
an without a past beyond the 
park sequence, but within this 
woman is enough torment and 
anxiety to last the run of any 
Bergman film. She is on screen 
for about 15 minutes. Sara Miles 
for less than that, but her physi
cal presence, the sense of a per
son who exists before and after 
the film itself, suffers. This is 
(Continued on Page 13)
TEACH IN GHANA 
or NIGERIA?
Yes:  If you . . .
1. Have a Bachelor' Degree; pre
ferably a Masters Degree.
2. Have at least 30 semester hours * 
credit in one of the following: a. 
physics; b. chemistry; c. biology; d. 
mathematics; e. industrial arts; f. 
English; g. French; h. geography; I. 
business education; j. home econom
ics.
3. Desire to teach at Itie second
ary school level.
4. Are in good health; single, or 
married without children.
WRITE:
Teachers for 
West Africa Program
ELIZABETHTOWN COLLEGE 
Elizabethtown, Pa. 17022
Draft Procedures, Guidelines ...
(Continued from Page 1) 
should be in the top one-half, of 
the full-time male students en
rolled in that class. Sub-seniors, 
planning to enroll as fifth-year 
seniors should be in the upper 
three-forths of the male enroll
ment in their class.
3) Selective Service College 
Qualification Test Scores: For all 
freshmen, sophomores, juniors, 
and sub-seniors, planning to en
roll in the next class in the fall 
must attain a score of 70 or above. 
Seniors intending to pursue grad
uate study must attain a score of 
80 or above.
Deferment Not Guaranteed 
It is important to note that the
draft test may be taken only once 
by a student. Further, while the 
above are guidelines for defer
ment, the successful fulfillment 
of these requirements does not 
automatically guarantee defer
ment.
Seniors planning graduate 
study, in addition to the afore
mentioned criteria, should noti
fy their draft board that 
they plan to attend graduate 
school, and should request a 
letter from the graduate school 
to be sent to the local board 
stating that the student has 
been accepted for graduate 
study. This will delay the re
classification procedure until
the student enrolls in the gradu
ate school in the fall, at which 
time the graduate school will 
send a certificate of enrollment 
to the students local board.
For those seniors intending to 
obtain a critical skills deferment, 
several points must be kept in 
mind. First, such a deferment is 
obtained only if 1) the employer 
is listed as critical to the health, 
welfare, or defense of the United 
States, and 2) the position to be 
filled by the employee must be 
critical. Secondly, the critical 
skills deferment is obtained 
through the employer after the 
employee is on the payroll.
Editorial...
(Continued from Page 4) 
because they know the school 
stands ready to overrule them, 
chastise them, or rescue them 
it they happen to make a mis
take. They know they are not 
really assuming responsibility 
or governing themselves, they 
are just playing games.
It is easily apparent that MDC, 
AWS, and Student Senate do not 
finally have power to make rules, 
administer discipline, or control 
the spending of money. The Ad
ministration must either give 
these bodies meaningful author
ity, or abolish them and deal di
rectly with extracurricular stu
dent affairs.
CAREER 
NEWS FROM 
HUGHES
Aerospace Divisions in Southern California
NEW AND CONTINUING 
PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
PHOENIX Missile & Fire Control System 
SURVEYOR Lunar Landing Spacecraft 
Synchronous Communications Satellites 
TOW Anti-Tank Missile System 
ATS (Applications Technology Satellites) 
AIM-47A/AIM-4E Missiles 
VATE Automatic Checkout Equipment 
CORDS
%
These examples of Hughes Aerospace activities are rep
resentative of more than 230 major product and service 
capabilities ranging from aerospace vehicles to ASW sys
tems. Diversification such as this promises long-range 
stability both for the company and its employees
NEW MISSILE SYSTEMS DIVISION
More than 1,600 engineers, scientists and technicians are 
now at work on expanding R & D programs at Hughes 
new 85-acre Canoga Park complex in the San Fernando 
Valley. Unexcelled facilities and the professional atmos
phere at Hughes encourage creativity and achievement.
9
IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES, steady
growth, diversification, long-range stability, professional 
atmosphere, advanced facilities, fine living conditions  
these are the advantages which Hughes Aerospace Divi
sions can offer you at Culver City and Canoga Park.
For additional information and to arrange an appointment 
with our Technical Staff Representatives, please contact 
your College Placement Office or write: Mr. Robert A. 
Martin, Head of Employment, 11940 W. Jefferson Blvd., 
Culver City, California 90230
HIRES OF 
ENGINEERING 
GRADUATES
Additions to Engineering Staff
104124
j. 
250(est)
243 mmII
1963 1964 1965 1966 1967
Of the over 12,000 employees of the Aerospace Divisions, 
over 5,000 are Members of the Technical Staff. Average 
experience is 11.7 years. Average age is 37.9 years.
HUGHES-CULVER CITY/CANOGA PARK
Hughes Aerospace Divisions at Culver City, and Canoga 
Park offers Engineers and Scientists a unique combina
tion of urban and suburban advantages. Located adjacent 
to major freeways. Los Angeles Civic Center is about a 
half-hour distant beaches, just a short drive. Attractive 
residential neighborhoods are nearby. U C L A., U S C. 
and Cal Tech offer outstanding educational facilities
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 20
HUGHES
i_________________________________iHUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
ACROSPACK DIVISIONS
An equal opportunity employer / U S citizenship required
For '67...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTOR
Pittsburghs Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

betwen Lancaster and Kerr 
passionately intertwined on the 
beach, while the waves pound 
symbolically, appears about as 
provacative as a Betty Gable 
pinup.
Before finishing with this film, 
I must lodge one criticism, how
ever, directed not against the mo
vie but against the people who 
direct the YMCA Friday Cine 
Series. There is nothing more 
calculated to turn my teeth on 
edge and my thoughts toward 
murder than people who take the 
liberty of cutting large sections 
out of movies. Its bad enough 
when the third reel comes on af
ter the first, but lets not add in
sult to injury.
In New York, a few weeks 
back, I saw Zinnemans latest 
film, A Man for All Seasons. Cu(Continued on Page 12)
pathetic portrayal of character, 
and its gradual, intensifying 
impact.
As the laconic, earnest, young 
soldier, Pruwith, Montgomery 
Cliff gives a beautifully controled performance, suggesting just 
the right amount of honesty and 
intelligence. Unfortunately, I have 
too often thought of Cliff in the 
context of such movies as Stev
ens A Place in the Sun and 
Hitchcocks I Confess where un
der insensitive direction; he was 
little more than sleepwalking. 
This movie made me aware of 
his great gifts as an actor, gifts 
that went for the most part un
realized during his long acting 
career. There is a good sturdy 
performance by Lancaster, a nice 
study in sadism by Ernest Borganine, a good one by Kerr, and 
a surprisingly good one by DonTechs representative in the annual Pittsburgh Press Campus Cover Girl Contest 
will be chosen by an all-campus vote today and tomorrow. The Association of Women 
Students has nominated five coeds for the balloting, which will be conducted by A Phi
0 from 12:30 to 4:30 pm today and 8:30 to 4:30 tomorrow in Baker Hall and Skibo. 
Both men and women may vote.
Degree Candidates in:
BS, MD Ph.D degrees in Ch.E, 
BS, MS degrees in CE, EE, Me. 
MS, Ph.D. degrees in Chem. 
Ph.D. degree in MetE, Physics 
BS degree in Biology.
Meet the Man 
from Monsanto
Susan Corrigan
A picture of the winner will 
appear in the Presss Roto Mag
azine on Sunday, March 19, along 
with pictures of cover girls 
from other local schools. A panel 
of judges will then select Pitts
burghs Campus Cover Girl of 
1967 from among these women.
Techs five candidates are 
Judy Cornell, Susan Corrigan, 
Nancy Guggenheim, Anne Har
grove, and Becky Smith.
February 21 & 22
Sign up for an interview at your placement office. 
This year Monsanto will have many openings 
for graduates at all degree levels. Fine positions 
are open all over the country with Americas 
3rd largest chemical company. And were still 
growing. Sales have quadrupled in the last 10 
years ... in everything from plasticizers to 
farm chemicals; from nuclear sources and 
chemical fibers to electronic instruments. Meet 
the Man from Monsanto  he has the facts 
about a fine future.
? Miss Cornell is a junior psy
chology major, from Livingston, 
New Jersey. Along with her 
schoolwork, she sits on Executive 
Council of Student Government 
and tutors in the HomewoodBrushton area. She also is an 
accomplished pianist.
Nancy GuggenheimBecky Smith
of the Assembly Committee. Her 
home is Lexington, Massachu
setts, where she does a lot of sail
ing.
? A sophomore in History with 
a Fine Arts option, Miss Guggen
heim has been both Rush Chair
man and social Chairman of Al
pha Epsilon Phi, and is Assist
ant Secretary of Panhellenic 
Council. A native of Philadelphia, 
she plans to visit France and 
England this summer..
? Miss Corrigan, a junior 
Fashion designer major from 
Pittsburgh, works part-time in 
the Fashion Department at Gimbels. She is also in the cast of 
Scotch n Soda, and is a Red 
Cross volunteer. In her spare 
time, she likes to paint.
? Miss Smith, a Senior in Art 
Education, from Narberth, Penn
sylvania, president of Kappa Al
pha Theta. She has been in 
Scotch n Soda and is active in 
the Student-Alumnae Discussion 
Group. She has studied the the
atre and hopes to organize a 
drama club where she teaches 
next year.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
? Also a sophomore history 
major, Miss Hargrove is Assist
ant Scholarship Chairman of Kap
pa Alpha Theta and a member1967
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
The Inland Steel Compaity, Indiana Harbor Works, East Chicago, Indiana invites 
you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descrip
tion in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will be on your campus onSentry Insurance offers 
10% discount to safe drivers
By completing a simple twenty-minute questionnaire, 
you may save up to $50 . . . maybe more . on Sentry 
auto insurance. And this is in addition to Sentrys 15% 
discount for Driver Training! Register now for the Sentry 
Preferred Youthful Driver Exam. Call or drop a card to 
me today.
FEBRUARY 15, 1967
DAN DONAHUE
5702 Hilltop Avenu* 
7V5-1393INDIANA HARBOR WORKS
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA
SENTRY. INSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals  Sentry LifeEqual Opportunity Employers in the Plans for Progress Program!
Page 10CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 8, 1967
Through the Looking Qlass
(Continued from Page 2) 
Dealing with this film by way 
of plot does not really do it 
justice, for its strength lies in 
its sensitive direction, its symr.a Reedno doubt the best one 
in her career.
There are a few rather dated, 
corny scenes. One corny bit: 
The famous torrid love scene
TaaxRefund MorF io lFaFmr 
Rsi RokFSxcCSa RoprFdrepr

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 1967CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Poge 11
Nature of the University
Crowded Courses Divide, 
Shift To Accommodate All
Last week many Tech students taking humanities cours
es found themselves in the middle of a problem equally 
cumbersome for teachers and students: overcrowded class
es. As a result of the lack of any means for predicting class 
sizes, several courses were overrun as Margaret Morrison 
humanities majors, students in the E & S double major pro
grams and minor-sequence programs converged on the 
available humanities options.
The problem varied in serious
ness:
well over 100 students 
crammed into the sections of 
C-804, Modern Writers;
Shakespeare, C-807, was 
chosen by almost 60 students;
? more than 50 students 
showed up for the C-level course 
in Modern European Fiction;
>- over 40 students were on 
hand at the unpopular 6:30 pm 
hour for the English Departments 
only night course in the Modern
Novel;
? 36 students began the first 
class of C-827, Development of 
the Modern Mind, and 33 appear
ed in C-836, Development of the 
Arts in the Modern World. These 
are B-and C-level history courses 
respectively.
Minor Sequence Crowded
According to Associate Profes
sor David H. Fowler, acting Head 
or the History Department, the 
high history enrollments are for 
the most part confined to courses 
comprising the E&S history minor 
sequence. These courses are 
> taken by E&S history minors, 
other E&S students seeking their 
distribution course, and MMCC humanities majors.
The E&S humanities minor 
sequence, now In its second 
year, requires a student to take 
four courses, of which three 
may be concentrated in a parti
cular fieldeither psychology, 
economics, history, or English.
In these areas, sequences have 
been set up with A-level (intro 
ductory courses, followed by 
B-and C- courses of increasing 
depth. The fourth course must 
be from a different discipline 
than the other three, and thus 
is known as the distribution 
course.
Dr. Fowler points out that the 
E&S minor sequence is invaded 
by MMCC history majors because 
the number of pure MMCC 
courses is limited by the relative
ly small history enrollment. When 
a course is of interest to still 
another group (as the C-836 Arts 
course is to Fine Arts students) 
its enrollment is further boosted. 
Philosophy courses have greatly 
increased enrollments for this 
reason: last semesters three sec
tions in one course have expand
ed to five sections of two courses.
Humanities courses have be
come increasingly accessible to 
E&S students through double
major programs, in which stu
dents can earn two undergrad
uate degrees, for example, in 
5 lis tor y and Physics.
While it is possible to manage 
courses with large enrollments, 
this would be especially undesira
ble from the student point of view. 
Professor Fred A. Sochatoff, As
sociate Head of the Department 
01 English, emphasizes the con
cept-orientation of English cour
ses as the primary reason for 
small sections in which students 
Ve more opportunity for dis
cussion.
25 Upper Limit
As a result, Dr. Sochatoff en
gineered staff resources and 
course schedules so that English 
courses now have a maximum 
section size of 25, even though 
this required creation of extra 
sections and a good deal of shuf
fling of students.
In general humanties enroll
ments have been rising, and they 
will of course shoot up with the 
formal opening of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences 
(Continued on Page 13)
Highlander
(Continued from Page 1)
Plans Useful Later
Dean Brown added that, in re
viewing the proposal at budget 
meetings it was deemed more 
practical to incorporate the sug
gested Highlander Room facilities 
in plans for addtion to Skibo.
A Tartan editorial last semester 
claimed that the Highlander pro
ject could be integrated into ex
pansion plans for Skibo, since any 
addition would be built on the 
parking lot side, but Brown re
vealed that there has been talk 
of expanding Skibo in opposite 
direction toward the tennis courts.
No timetable has been set up 
for building an addition to Ski
bo.
Sharon Rambo, chairman of the 
Student Union committee said she 
was not surprised that the High
lander plan was rejected after 
she heard the estimate. The 
Union committee will now start 
work on suggestions for the Skibo 
addition. They are going to re
view floor plans and sketches of 
the MIT student union.
No February 15?
The Society for the Prevention 
of Feb. 15 (SPOFF) will hold 
an organizational meeting Thurs
day, 8 pm Skibo 55. Demonstration and Rally will be planned.
GROUP FLIGHT 
. .TO . . 
EUROPE
June 15August 17, 1967 
.. Contact..
E. C. McCREARY 
244 BH A Ext. 474
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH Of ETNA7918 PENN AVENUE J
r International 
Hair Designer Expert 
Razor Sculpture Cutting
207 Oakland Ave.
Composer wants to know the score on 67 compacts
DEAR REB:
Im a well-known composer, and I need a new car. 
The trouble is, I'm just too Bizet to pick one out. And 
whats more, many of the new cars I see are Offen
bach in the garage for repairs. But I do have a good 
friend who is pleased with his new 67 Dodge Dart. 
He was given an excellent deal and Berlioz any 
money on it. My Bach istothewall.Canyou help me?
LUDWIG
DEAR LUDWIG:
My advice is that you let yourself Ravel in the enjoy
ment of driving the sporty, all-new Dart for '67. 
You'll find its Lrszt price is a lot lower than youd 
expect. And even though its longer outside and 
bigger inside this year, Dart's still an easy car to 
Handel.
C^tu6eAi^./ hb'
Heres the swinging, man-sized compact for '67 that's got three Bs of 
its own: Bold, Brassy and Beautiful. Dart has been completely restyled 
this year, inside and out. Its longer, roomier, more powerful. But still at 
that snug compact price. Drop in at your nearest Dodge Dealers and 
try it out for yourself.
Dodge
CHRYSLERMOTORS CORPORATION
JAN EPTERFEO EDEMMEc WANTS Vttll
Can
-3738

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12CARNEGIE TECH TARTANWednesday, February 8, 1967
Last year, thousands of lawyers, bankers, accountants, engineers, doctors and businessmen went back to college.
And not just for the football games.
Wed like to clear up what appears to be a 
misunderstanding. It is somewhat popular 
on campus to decry a business career on 
the grounds that you stop learning once 
you start working for Cliche Nuts & Bolts.
That idea is groundless.
We cant speak for Clich, but we can 
for ourselvesWestern Electric, the man
ufacturing and supply unit of the Bell Sys
tem. 6 out of 10 college graduates who have 
joined us over the past 10 years, for exam
ple, have continued their higher education.
Howre these for openers:
W.E.s Tuition Refund Plan lets em
ployees pursue degrees while work
ing for us. Over 6 thousand have at
tended schools in 41 states under 
this plan. We refund more than $1 
million in tuition costs to employees 
a year.
To name another program: advanced 
engineering study, under the direc
tion of Lehigh University, is con
ducted at our Engineering Research
Center in Princeton, N. J. Selected 
employees are sent there from all 
over the country for a years concen
trated study leading to a masters 
degree.
You get the idea. Were for more learn
ing in our business. After all, Western 
Electric doesnt make buggy whips. We 
make advanced communications equip
ment And the Bell telephone network will 
need even more sophisticated devices by 
the time your fifth reunion rolls around. 
The state of the art, never static, is where 
the action is.
At Western Electric, whats happening 
is the excitement and satisfaction of con
tinued doing and learning. If this happens 
to appeal to you, no matter what degree 
youre aiming for, check us out. And grab 
a piece of the action.Western Electric
MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY UNIT Of THE BELL SYSTEM
Through the Looking
(Continued from Page 10) 
riously, again the problem was 
of a man alienated from those 
around him who chose to follow 
his conscience. When Sir Thom
as, more eloquently says, regard
ing his martyrdom, Finally it is 
not a matter of reason; finally it 
is a matter of love, one her.rs 
echoes of Robert E. Lee Pruwitts 
simply justification: If a man 
dont go his own way, hes noth
ing.
As the barrister, Lord Chan
cellor, Scholar and with Sir 
Thomas More, Paul Scofield, is 
superb. He uses his expressive 
eyes, beautiful voice to great 
effect; even his silence have 
the clarity of crystal.
The dilemma faced by More 
is whether to legitimatize the 
marriage of Henry VII to Anne 
Boleyn, or else withhold sanction 
because of church dogma and the 
dictates of his conscience. Zinnemans style is simple, unpretenti
ous, the camera evokes beautiful
ly the verdant splendor of 16th 
Century England, and its leisure
ly way of life. Fine performances 
are Leo McKern as playful, chil
dish Henry VIII, and John Hurt 
as Sir Thomas betrayer, and one
Qlass
strange bit, with Orson Welles 
who as Cardinal Woolsey, looks 
like a huge bloated goldfish with 
a hangover. Fred Zinneman is a 
fine, highly skilled artist, whose 
movies have a rewarding sim
plicity of style, and consistency 
ox theme. The director of High 
Noon, From Here to Eternity, and 
now A Man for All Seasons, Zin
neman has secured an important 
and durable place in the Amer
ican film. Both movies, needless 
'to report, are well worth seeing.
Slack...
(Continued from Page 14) 
tion coordinated with their 
chosen field.
The theory underlying the ed
ucation center is the greatest 
contribution that can be made to 
education can come from per
sons with training in the aca
demic disciplines. Slack added; 
No college of education will be 
set up.
Slack stated that he would not 
give up teaching on either the 
undergraduate or graduate lev
els. He will probably teach one 
course each semester.
! Bristol-Myers/Grove Division, P.O. Box 4808, Clinton, Iowa 52732
* Enclosed is (check one): ? Wrapper from NoDoz Mints, or ? FrontI panel from package of 15 or 36 NoDoz Tablets, or ? Front label
from bcttle of 60 NoDoz Tablets.
| Please return 25 cents (one quarter) to:
1 Name---------------------------------------------------------------------------
I Address.------------------------------------------------------------------------
| City-------------------------------------State------Zip Code-------------
| Offer void without this coupon.
axRe fun 
dMeor MTTuFi 
ru lR inmm
sharpen your wits 
with NoDoz
DON'T That's how much you have coming back on the IfeDez youFORGET bouKht for the mid-year exams. Just mail us the front panel orvnilB label ,rom *ny *'ze P*c'ia8 * NoDoz* with this coupon. AndIUUK we>u mij| y0U a quarter (251) in return. But hurry. Offer endsQUARTER Feb. 28. No refunds after March 7, 1967. Hall coupon today I
NoDoz keep alert tablets or new 
chewable mints, safe as coffee, 
help bring you back to your 
mental best... help you become 
more alert to the people 
and conditions around you. 
Non-habit forming.
Tablets or new Chewable Mints

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 197-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 13
J. Bond
(Continued, from Page 1)
jng that he was not the first 
Negro to be expelled from the 
Georgia legislaturein 1898, 27 
Negroes were elected and 26 ex
pelled. He told the audience that 
They didnt expell the 27th be
cause he was extremely fair
skinned and they werent sure.
Students Spark Rights
Later at Carnegie Lecture Hall, 
Bond spoke on the development 
of the Civil Rights movement 
over the past few years. Things 
really began to happen in 1960, 
he stated., when, for the first 
time, students began to play an 
active role in the movement. He 
discussed the effectiveness of sitins, freedom rides, and other 
student activities.
In 1963, says Bond, the Civ
il Rights Movement was re
evaluated, although Negroes 
could then use some of the 
same toilets as whites, and eat 
in some of the same restaur
ants, they still had no effec
tive political power, because 
they were not literate enough 
to pass tests for voter quali
fication.
He charged that the tests at 
that time were designed specif
ically to keep Negroes away, and 
that most Negroes had decided 
that it was not worth risking 
their jobs and their lives to 
^ vote. In response, the Movement 
began a new approach, Freedom 
Schools were built and Negroes 
were registered to vote by the 
thousands. To illustrate the sit
uation that Negores faced, Bond 
noted that in 1965 in Lowndes 
County in Alabama, where the 
population is 18 percent Negro, 
no Negroes were registered, and 
125 percent of the whites were 
registered to vote.
Third Party Needed
Bond also asserted that in the 
South, the needs of Negroes are 
not satisfied by either the Dem
ocratic or Republican party, 
both of which generally support 
segregation. This has led to the 
rise of third political parties, 
such as the Black Panther Party 
in Lowndes County.
Julian Bond concluded his 
speech by stating that the social 
system as organized is not capof Negroes, and that since the 
white power structure lacks the 
will, courage, and intellect to 
grant Negroes their rights vol
untarily, it must be forced to do 
so.
Nature
(Continued from Page 11)
01 Carnegie University. Although 
course sizes have been held down 
for the students benefit, not 
everyone is happy. The main 
course of complaint has been 
( those freshmen who were forced 
to move out of comfortable 11:30 
sections of Introduction to World 
Literature into 8:30 sections in 
0lder to level the section sizes.
Blow-Up...
(Continued from Page 9) 
Antonionis art that enables him 
to capture that moment when a 
ges' or reaction cuts through 
to the soul. His films are more 
than projected images; they are 
alive.
Another presence in the film 
is London. Shot in the rich 
earthy colors suffused with 
northern light, the film is Gains
borough  Constable. The 
color photography is by Carlo 
di Palma and is, to say the 
least, brilliant. From the rich 
humid decadence of a London 
party that seems to have been 
going on for days, the pastel 
bacchanal involving the photo
grapher and two birds in a nest 
of Lavender construction pa
per to park full of trees in cons
tant erie motion, every bit of 
the film is stunning.
There are superstitions regard
ing the camera, warning that a 
photograph captures the soul of 
the person photographed. After 
seeing Blow-up, I believe in this 
particular superstition. The film 
is to be found at the Shadyside 
Theater in Shadyside. Ive found 
that its actually a four hour film 
since I have not been able yet to 
leave after seeing it for the first 
time.
Community...
(Continued from Page 2) 
factly: Dont you think that 
Carnegie Tech Is well-known 
all over the country?
However, the fact is that even 
some Pittsburghers know very 
little about the school. It pro
vides a fine technical education, 
an elderly lawyer summarized as 
he pored over the new books 
shelf at Carnegie Library. All I 
know is that its an engineering 
school, a housewife said as she 
stood by her car in Oakland. Sev
eral others limited Tech curricu
lum to art, drama, and engineer
ing. Quite a few could not imag
ine there being no curfew for 
some women.
Said a Carnegie library guard: 
This is not the same Carnegie 
Tech I knew. . . . There was more 
spirit 30 years ago. And he went 
on to recall some of Techs foot
ball greats.
Metallurgy Prof. 
To W ork Abroad 
With NSF Grant
Dr. Charles L. Bauer, as
sociate professor of metal
lurgy and materials science 
at Carnegie Tech, has been 
awarded a senior postdoctor
al fellowship by the National Science Foundation 
(NSF).
Under the terms of the fellow
ship, Dr. Bauer will conduct re
search in metallurgy and materi
als science for three months at 
Kyushu University in Fuknoka, 
Japan, and for nine months at the 
Institute fur Allgemeine Metallkunde un Metallphysik in Aachen, 
Germany.
While in Japan, Dr. Bauer will 
collaborate with colleagues to in
vestigate the effect of microscopic 
defects on the properties of su
perconductorsmetals which be
come perfect conductors of elec
tricity at a few degrees above 
absolute zero.
In Germany, Dr. Bauer will con
sult with resident scientists con
cerning interactions between de
fects found in substances and how 
these interactions affect the me
chanical and electrical properties 
of materials.
Dr. Bauer, who began his aca
demic career as an assistant pro
fessor at Carnegie Tech in 1961, 
iS the author of more than 20 
articles appearing in various sci
entific and technical journal. He 
received his bachelors degree 
from Rensselaer Polytechnic In
stitute, and his masters and doc
toral degrees from Yale Univer
sity.
CLASSIFIED
FOR SALE19-60 Dodge 4-door 
seneca. Rebuilt tra n$m ission. 
Asking $275. Inspected. Con
tact Janie Crout, 682-8898.
DRIVER WANTED
to drive 4 children from Mt. Wash-, 
ington to school at St. Edmund's 
Academy (Squirrel Hill) and Ellis 
School (5th and Shady).
Phone 481-6404
.. . afar 6 p.m. . . .
We at PP&L like one thing...
SUCCESS!
So far weve done pretty well. A big reason? Weve got good people. Talented people. People who like success, too. And thats the kind were looking forwhether theyre Math majors or Electrical, Mechanical or Industrial Engineers. If you like this idea and youre interested in any of the following areas, talk to us:
Design, Application,
System Planning EE - IVIE
Technical Sales EE - ME - IE
Systems & Methods,
Scientific EE - Math.
Were interested in candidates for both Bachelors and Masters degrees.
We will be on campusFEBRUARY 21, 1967
For information about our company and registration 
for an interview, visit your placement office.
PENNSYLVANIA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
An equal opportunity employer
NEED MONEY!
We buy used Cameras, 
Typewriters and Projectors
Sellers age must be 21CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue Phone 683-2181
with MaxShuIman
(By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!, 
Dobie Gillis, elc.)
STAMP OUT YOUNG LOVE
It happens every day. A young man goes off to college, 
leaving his home town sweetheart with vows of eternal 
love, and then he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in 
such cases, is the honorable thing to do?
Well sir, you can do what Crunch Sigafoos did.
When Crunch left his home in Cut and Shoot, Pa., to go 
off to a prominent midwestern university (Florida State) 
he said to his sweetheart, a wholesome country lass named 
Mildred Bovine, My dear, though I am far away in col
lege, I will love you always. I take a mighty oath I will 
never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch 
and wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may my 
ever-press slacks go baggy!
Then he clutched Mildred to his bosom, flicked some 
hayseed from her hair, planted a final kiss upon her fra
grant young skull, and went away, meaning with all his 
heart to be faithful.
But on the very first day of college he met a coed named 
Irmgard Champerty who was studded with cultu -e like a 
ham with cloves. She knew verbatim the complete works 
of Franz Kafka, she sang solos in stereo, she wore a black 
leather jacket with an original Goya on the back.
Well sir, Crunch took one look and his jaw dropped and 
his nostrils pulsed like a bellows and his kneecaps turned 
to sorghum. Never had he beheld such sophistication, such 
intellect, such savoir faire. Not, mind you, that Crunch 
was a dolt. He was, to be sure, a country boy, but he had a 
head on his shoulders, believe you me! Take, for instance, 
his choice of razor blades. Crunch always shaved with 
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades, and if that doesnt 
show good sense, I am Rex the Wonder Horse. No other 
blade shaves you so comfortably so often. No other blade 
brings you such facial felicity, such epidermal elan. 
Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades take the travail out 
of shaving, scrap the scrape, negate the nick, peel the pull, 
oust the uch. Furthermore, Personnas are available both 
in double-edge style and in injector style. If youre smart 
and Im sure you are, or howd you get out of high school 
youll get a pack of Personnas before another sun has set.
But I digress. Crunch, as we have seen, was instantly 
smitten with Irmgard Champerty. All day he followed her 
around campus and listened to her talk about Franz Kafka 
and like that, and then be went back to his dormitory and 
found this letter from his home town sweetheart Mildred:
Dear Crunch:
Us kids had a keen time yesterday. We went down to 
the pond and caught some frogs. I caught the most of 
anybody. Then we hitched rides on trucks and did lots 
of Yiutsy stuff like that. Well, I must close now because I 
got to whitewash the fence.
Your friend,
Mildred
P.S----1 know how to ride backivards on my skateboard.
Well sir, Crunch thought about Mildred and then he 
thought about Irmgard and then a great sadness fell upon 
him. Suddenly he knew he had outgrown young, innocent 
Mildred; his heart now belonged to smart, sophisticated 
Irmgard.
Being above all things honorable, he returned forth
with to Cut and Shoot, Pa., and looked Mildred straight in 
the eye and said manlily, I do not love you any more. I 
love another. You can hit me in the stomach all your might 
if you want to!
Thats okay, hey! said Mildred amiably. I dont love 
you neither. I found a new boy!
What is his name? asked Crunch.
Franz Kafka said Mildred.
I hope you will be very happy! said Crunch and shook 
Mildreds hand and they have remained good friends to 
this day. In fact. Crunch and Irmgard often double-date 
with Franz and Mildred and have barrels of fun. Franz 
knows how to ride backwards on his skateboard one-legged.
* * *  7. Max Shulmmn
So you see, all's tcell that ends wellincluding a shave 
with Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades and 
Personnas partner in luxury shavingBurma-Shave. It 
comes in menthol or regular; it soaks rings around any
o her lather.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, February 8, 1967
Want to be more 
than a face 
in the crowd?
At Ford Motor Company we're 
looking for better ideas 
in everything from automotive 
marketing to steel-making and 
basic research. Ideas that 
don't come from people who look 
alike, act alike and think alike.
Whatever your majorarts, 
science or businessif you want 
to be more than a face in the 
crowd, we want to talk with you.
Call your placement office 
for an appointment.
Dates of visitation:
MARCH 1, 2, 1967
laemh wFuSFdFprd gpAaCdO 
Np yFE gVnmerCop RFprFS
Robert C. Slack, Associate professor of English and Humanities has been appointed 
as representative from the English Department to the new million-dollar Education 
Center. Slack earned his Doctorate in English at the University of Pittsburgh in 1953. 
He has been at Carnegie Tech since 1946. Slack was appointed head of Humanities in 
1961.
The education center of which 
Slack is now a full time mem
ber was proposed and accepted 
by the Carnegie Corporation of 
N.Y. late last year.
Slack talked about the cen
ter when visited by the Tar
tan last week. The center will 
be an umbrella structure un
der whose aegis special educa
tion activities would be occur
ring, according to Slack.
=K==*=
WALLY'S
CAMPUS-FAVORED Men 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS Women
BATES FLOATERS HUSH-PUPPIES FLATS
FLORSHEIM LOAFERS DRESS SHOES
 WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes Ave., Oakland (Across from Strand Theatre)
----------- * -it * - -X- M ->g  *

GUITARISTS!*
t IT IS CONVENIENT ... IT IS TIME SAVING . . . COME TO:
214 South Craig St. (at Winthrop)
For Your Guitar Repairs . . . Strings and Accessories
BRINLEY TRUEGuitar and Violin Maker
EXPERT and ARTISTIC REPAIRING
PHONE: 621-0756EVENINGS BY APPOINTMENT: 421-9062
AVCO EVERETT
. only those who could appreciate an academic 
climate that has the personal advantages of private 
industry.
At Avco Everett, youll be working in just such an environ
ment . . . one which places a premium on ideas . . . 
where youll be given all the freedom you need to do 
significant research and publish papers . . . and youll 
be working with some of the most respected scientists 
in aerospace research.
Our investigations range from high temperature gas dy
namics, plasma dynamics, aerophysics, atomic physics, 
reentry physics, magnetohydrodynamics to low tempera
ture physics including superconductivity.
Avco Everett may not be for you. But if it is for you, 
yQure shortchanging yourself by not investigating further.
If you have an advanced degree and/or interest in one 
of the above areas, please write Mr. Louis Rudzinsky.
AVCO
EVERETT
RESEARCH
LABORATORY
2305 REVERE BEACH PARKWAY EVERETT. MASSACHUSETTS OS14S
Inquiries also accepted for our Summer Graduate Program.
's.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
The Carnegie Corporation has 
granted the education center one 
million dollars as seed money 
which will be used to get tho 
center on its feet. Eventually 
it is forseen that the center 
will be self-supporting.
The education center is form
ulating programs to offer Doc
torate degrees in History, Eng
lish, Fine Arts, Math, and the 
Natural Sciences. These will be 
the beginning degrees; other pro
grams will be added.
Programs Are Public
The education center will con
tinue to direct programs in the 
Pittsburgh public school system. 
Project English and English 
courses have been activated for
prospective college entrance by 
high school students. Over two 
thousand students are presently 
involved in these English pro
grams. A national response has 
come from various schools seek
ing information about the var
ious English programs designed 
for public schools.
The center will visualize and 
coordinate plans for the pro
posed Doctorate programs. The 
Doctoral degrees however, will 
be granted by Carnegie Tech 
rather than by the education 
center. Doctoral candidates will 
have an internship with the ed
ucation center in a research or 
development program in educa(Continued on Page 12)
Looking For Self-Fulfillment? 
Sherut LaAm  Israel 
May Be Your Answer
I am a graduate  undergraduate (underline 
one) between 1930 and would like you to 
send me, without obligation, FREE information 
telling how I can serve a full year in Israel for 
only $670 which includes round trip fare (A lim
ited number of long-term loans are available). 
I understand a knowledge of Hebrew is not a 
prerequisite.
TO: SHERUT LA'AM (Service to the People)
515 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022
Name (pleae print)
1
1 Major Field of Study
i
1
College or University
1i
1 Street Address
1
1
 ----------------
Phone (optional)
 City 
1
StateZip J 
1
Anyone can
GOOF.
With Eatons Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper, you 
can erase that goof without a trace.
Not a telltale smudge remains. A special surface per
mits quick and easy erasing with an ordinary pencil 
eraser. For perfect papers every time, get Corrasable. 
In light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In 
handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. 
At Stationery Departments.
iMj
arwrscoRftAsABu:
Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
EATON PAPER CORPORATION. PITTSfiELD. MASSACHUSETTS
Fasters...
(Continued from Page 1) 
Pittsburgh colleges with several 
Tech students among them. The 
participants in the Fast will sub
sist on fruit juices and water or 
a diet of rice and tea. Particular ^ 
concern is expressed by the stu
dents over the fact that Carnegie 
Tech is listed by the offices of 
the Secretary of Deans as one of 
the nations top Defense Depart
ment contracts with $3,012,000 in 
Military Prime Contract Awards 
for Research, Development, Test, ^ 
and Evaluation Work for the fis
cal year 1965.
Protesting Inhumanity
The Peace Mobilization meet
ing in Washington issued the fol
lowing statement regarding their 
position.
We confess that we are parti- '1 
cipants in the inhumanity of war 
by the taxes which we pay, the 
fruits of the war economy we en
joy, and our failure to care deep
ly and speak courageously; by the 
policies of our country and the 
silent anquish of our citizens; by 
the products of our factories and 
the blood of our youth.
%
We are a people involved 
in an undeclared war, in our 
hearts as well as on a foreign 
soil. We confess our need for 
a rebirth of compassion expres
sed in body and in spirit to live 
again as children of Our 
Father, created in His image.
This statement is the'basis upon * 
which the local Fast for Peace 
is being organized. Heading the 
Tech Fast group are Ellen Berg
man, a sophomore business ma
jor and Sandra Hoffberger, a jun
ior P&D.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobacco  in the City!
BRIAR BOWL
3752 Forbes St. 681-6045 
Nationally 
Advertised 
Pipes
681-6045
s
Residence of Distinction
ONE ROOM Kitchenette 
equipped, and bath, beauti
fully furnished  $155. up.
?
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very 
attractively furnished, $275. 
up.
?
Also . . . UNFURNISHED 1 
and 3 ROOM APARTMENTS, 
when available.
?
FAIRFAX HOTEL
4614 5th AVE. >Phon: 621-4030
p._Wew a ntvtew
PIZZERIA
with the flying Pizza
SPECIAL 
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG 682-8691

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 8, 197-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 15
Bridge by Jeff Ruben
This weeks hand, played recently at Skibo, concerns an overeager Tech junior who pushed his freshman opponents to a makeable slam and then doubled.
North
S: J, 4 
H: K, 7, 6, 5 
D: 6
C: A, K, Q, J, 4, 3 
West East
S: Q, 2 S: K, 8, 6, 5
H- void H: A, 3
D: A, K, J, 10, 8, 7, 4, 2 D: Q, 9, 5, 3
C: 8 5, 2 C: 10, 9, 7
South 
S: A, 10, 9 7, 3 
H: Q, J, 10, 9, 8, 4, 2 
D: void
C: 6
Tech Y Offers SCUBA Course
The Tech YM-YWCA will 
again be sponsoring a SCUBA 
course this semester. Instruction 
will be given by experienced 
SCUBA divers, supervised by cer
tified SCUBA instructors.
The course will meet on Mon
day nights, beginning Feb. 20 
and ending April 24. Nightly ses
sions last from 7 to 10 pm. One 
hour is devoted to lecture, and 
two hours are spent in the Tech 
pool each session. Aqua lungs 
are furnished, but students must 
provide their own mask, snorkel, 
and flippers. Students should at
tend the first meeting before pur
chasing equipment.
Students must pass a physical 
examination which can be taken 
at the Health Department in the 
gym. Cost of the course is $12 
to Y-members and $15 to non
members. The class will be lim
ited to 15 students, and candi
dates should sign up in the Y of
fice, Skibo 57, before next Wed
nesday.
NES
1CP1H
3HP3S
4H5D5H
P6D6H
PDblAll pass
W
3D
4D
P
P
Opening Lead: Club 5.
East decided to sacrifice at five 
diamonds after hearing his part
ner announce a very long suit 
and little else with his jump 
overcall and rebid. When South 
persisted to five hearts, East 
should have realized that freak 
distribution was present and 
should have passed immediately. 
His bid of six diamonds alerted 
South to the possibility that the 
opponents held little defensive 
strength, and the heart slam was 
bid. East, though somewhat shak
en, still had the gall to double.
West, knowing that he couldnt 
cash a diamond, tried to defeat 
the hand by finding his partners 
strength in dummys first bid 
suit. Instead, South clubbed the 
defense by winning the opening 
lead, knocking out the heart ace, 
and using trumps for entries to 
discard spades on the good clubs. 
West cannot be blamed for not 
finding the spade opening which 
would set the contract. As for 
East, rumor has it that he is 
now playing poker for low stakes 
around the dormsand losing.
This is the first article of a 
weekly series to appear in the 
Tartan. We would appreciate com
ments and reports on hands that 
were actually dealt and played. 
Send them to the Tartan office or 
bring them to Room B-109 Hamerschlag. As for the title of the 
article, please dont come kwaiing about it.
B'NAI BRITH 
HILLEL FOUNDATION
.. presents ..
Tec hClari afsCD
Professor, University of Pittsburgh 
Graduate School of Social Work
I? who will speak at
? Our Lox and Bagel Brunch
? "THE IDEA OF 
NATIONAL SERVICE"
SUNDAY, FEB. 12  11 A.M. 
v FACULTY DINING ROOM
? SKIBO HALL, CARNEGIE TECH
Members $.75 Non-Members $1.25
? 4< You may register for the
Bikel Brunch at this time.
?
Many of you probably have no
ticed the column, entitled Inter
collegiate Bowling in this 
weeks Tartan. This team, made 
up of the top bowlers of the 
intramural teams, cannot right
fully be called a varsity because 
it is not financed by Techs var
sity budget. Instead the $25 entry 
fee into the league (the Western 
Pennsylvania Traveling League of 
the National Intercollegiate Bowl
ing Association) and long-distance 
phone calls are paid for by the in
tramural department, while tra
veling expenses and bowling fees 
are paid by the individual mem
bers of the team.
As can be seen from the Inter
collegiate Bowling article, this 
years team consists of a fine 
bunch of bowlers. They are proba
bly as good or better than any 
college bowling team in the TriState area and, as such, should 
receive support from the Varsity 
Athletics Department. The team 
members give their money, time, 
and effort in an attempt to rep
resent Carnegie Tech in the best 
way they can.
A varsity bowling team is one 
of the least expensive of all var
sity teams. A total sum of $300 
could finance the entire team for 
a complete season. It has been 
awhile since a request has been 
made of the Varsity Athletics De
partment to include bowling as 
a varsity sport. I believe the time 
has come for such a request to be 
repeated so that Tech can have 
another varsity sport of which 
it may really be proud.
Intercollegiate Bowling
Due to the power failure at 
C la r i o n last weekend, Techs 
match with that school was post
poned until a later date. Standings 
of the Western Pennsylvania Tra
veling League as of Friday, Feb.
2 are as follows:
TeamWonLos1
Carnegie Tech40
Grove City40
St Vincent102
Point Park1010
Pitt66
Clarion35
Robert Morris412
Geneva17
Intramural Bowling
The first round of the elimina
tion playoffs on Saturday produced 
no real surprises.
The EJs A, helped by a 548 
series by Libman and a 525 series 
by Nadeau, walloped an out-class
ed TDP A team 2376 to 2233. 
Similarly DU, paced by two 22 
plus games and a 597 series by 
Rosenfeld, defeated the EJs B 
2393 to 2308.
Despite a 547 series by Miller, 
BSR bounced back from an 80 pin 
deficit in the first game to win 
the next two and beat DTD, 2351 
to 2267. In the final match, SAE, 
led by Browns 563, rode a huge 
first game pin bulge to a 2338 to 
2212 victory over SN.
The semi-finals next Saturday 
find BSR vs the EJs A and 
SAE vs DU. Finals and consulation match will be played on the 
following Saturday.
Intramural Water Polo
With no games having been
played last week, the standings as 
of Sunday are listed below.
Pacific LeagueWL
TDP41
GSIA31
BTP11
ATO B12
SAE12
SN gold02
PKA23
Atlantic LeagueWL
BSR30
ATO A30
SN White21
PKT22
DTD22
DU14
Grad Nads04
LEWIS
Stilps-Rt'/Kiirs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sports Editor
After a long absence, pro basketball has returned to Pittsburgh. 
The announcement of the formation of the American Basketball As
sociation and of its having a franchise in this city pleased many of 
the areas sports fans. The desire for a pro team in this city has 
been quite evident from the attendance at the Philadelphia 76ers 
games played here at the Civic Arena.
Last night, area fans got to see two of the leading players of 
the NBA in Wilt Chamberlain and Rick Barry. Chamberlain has been 
the spark plug of the league-leading 76ers, while Barry, in averag
ing well over 30 points per game, has led his Warriors to the top 
of the Western division.
High-scoring Rick Barry of the San Francisco Warriors has been 
named Rookie-of-the-Year in all sports for 1966 in Sports Maga
zines 20th annual selections honoring the top performer in every 
sport.
The award, one of 13 top performer selections announced in 
the current issue of Sports, goes to Barry who has been called the 
most sensational first-year man to hit the National Basketball Asso
ciation since Elgin Baylor.
Barry, who played his collegiate basketball at the University 
of Miami, finished fourth in the NBA in scoring with a 25.7 points 
per-game average and was named to the All-Pro team, thus insur
ing his selection as Sports Rookie-of-the-Year for all sports. Previous 
winners were Chicago Bears halfback Gale Sayers and Minnesota 
Twins outfielder Tony Oliva.
Also among the awards announced by Sports Magazine were 
Man-of-the-Year and Top Performer in Baseball honors to Frank 
Robinson of the Baltimore Orioles.
Say the editors of Sport in explaining their choice: Frank Rob
inson did it all. He led the league in batting, .316; he led the league 
in home runs, 49; he led the league in runs-batted-in, 122. He be
came the first player to win the Most Valuable Player Award in 
both leagues. And he continued his onslaught in the World Series, 
starting the rout of the Dodgers with a first-game, first-inning home 
run, and ending it in the fourth game with the home run that gave 
the Orioles a 1-0 victory and a sweep of the Seri.
Is it any wonder then that Sport should honor Frank Robinson 
as its Man-of-the-Year for 1966? ask the editors.
The complete listing of Sport Magazine awards for 1966:
Man-of-the-YearFrank Robinson, Baltimore Orioles.
Top Performer in Pro FootballBart Starr, Green Bay Packers.
Top Performer in College FootballSteve Spurrier, University 
of Florida.
Top Performer in Pro BasketballBill Russell, Boston Celtics.
Top Performer in College BasketballCazzie Russell, Universi
ty of Michigan.
Top Performer in HockeyBobby Hull, Chicago Black Hawks.
Top Performer in BoxingCassius Clay.
Top Performer in Track and FieldJim Ryun, University of 
Kansas.
Top Performer in Swmming and DivingDon Schollander, Yale 
University.
Top Performer in RacingBuckpasser.
Top Performer in GolfBilly Casper.
Rookie-of-the-Year for All SportsRick Barry, San Francisco 
Warriors.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL 
BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON
'peixua.Kf ?3, I*?67
TO INTERVIEW SENIORS 
IN ENGINEERING WHO ARE 
INTERESTED IN EXPLORING 
JOB OPPORTUNITIES WITH A 
GROWTH COMPANY - ONE OF 
FORTUNE MAGAZINE'S "500"
Harbison-Walker 
Refractories Company
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, February 8, 1967Burdett Sparks Surge As CIT Wins 5 of 6
by Jim Janke
Throughout the past month, as Ray Burdett goes, so goes the Tartan basketba 1 
team. Everyone in the district who covers basketball has heard of Rays sparkling de
fensive ability; but it was his offensive desire which has turned the CIT record from 
1-4 to 8-6. The Tartans stretched their win streak to six gamesno other CIT five has 
been able to do that in Moe Fassinger's memory  only to have it broken in a game at 
Geneva Saturday night.
This week CIT plays Bethany 
and Grove City, both games 
away. The Tartan quintet has a 
good chance to take both games; 
both Bethany and Grove City 
are in slumps. (Grove City lost 
last week to Allegheny, 68-63;
CIT has defeated Allegheny 
twice). The next home game is 
February 17 against Case in Skibc gym at 8:15 p.m.
Keefer Stars
In the away game January 10th 
against Allegheny CIT won hand
ily, 74-50, paced by the outside 
shooting of Don Keefer and Jeff 
Kalin. Tech grabbed an early 
lead and the final result was 
never in doubt. For Allegheny, 
the trio of Johnstown, Hillkirk 
and Howald had <?ver 80 percent 
oi the losing teams points:
Don Keefer sails past Allegheny defender and scores on a double-dip.
tans, who have scored their two The deceiving totals: 
highest point totals of the year 
(91 and 90) against Waynesburg.
The statistics:
TechFGFTPts.
Houser306
Keefer11022
Burdett5313
Kalin9018
Lang317
Meister306
Hummel102
Totals35474
AlleghenyFGFTPts
Johnstown6214
Hillkirk5313
Howald6214
Bush113
Kassacjac113
Ferguson011
Cianci102
Totals201050
Hal time score:CIT31,Allegheny 19.
Tech Dumps Waynesburg 
Sixteen days after the game at 
Allegheny, CIT dumped WaynesNeil Houser, all alone In the cor
ner, shoots against Allegheny.
burg 90-71 for the second time 
this season, to bring the CIT 
record to 5-5 and their unbeaten 
streak to 3 games. Jeff Kalin 
played extremely well and had 
his first really hot night, with 
32 points. Lang had 17 and Keef
er 15, while Ray Burdett had
13 for the second game in a row. 
Tech again got off to a good 
start, leading at the half by 17 
points. But the Yellow Jackets 
were no match for the TarTechFGFTPts
Kalin12832
Houser113
Keefer7115
Burdett4513
Lang8117
Meiser033
Weborg102
Hummel113
Grazzini102
Totals352090
WaynesburgFGFTPts
Girardin4614
Kampa4210
Smith6214
McCrerey419
Cunningham4412
Fleischer5010
Dzurinko102
Totals281571
Halftime score: CIT 46, Waynesburgh 29.
Burdett Paces
At Skibo gym on January 28, 
CIT defeated St. Vincent in a 
poorly played game by both 
squads. Although Tech had the 
lead throughout the first half, 
poor shooting discipline and fouls 
cost the Tartans a chance to keep 
the lead for long. Mark Lang had 
four fouls in the first 12 minutes 
oi the game and able to play 
only 16 minutes of the entire 
game before fouling out. Kalin 
had three personals in the first 
half and had to be subbed for.
By the halfway mark of the 
second period, St. Vincent had 
built a 50-43 lead on the excel
lent shooting of John Pranaitis, 
who had 16 points in the second 
half alone. But John Meister and 
Bill Weborg came off the bench 
with two timely buckets, and Hay 
Burdett added another two goals 
a 55-53 lead with five minutes 
remaining. Then Burdett, who 
lately has been combining good 
outside shooting with his already 
well - respected defensive work, 
started a three-goal one man 
flurry that put CIT out in front 
to stay. In the last 40 seconds, 
with St. Vincent using a fullcourt press to try to get the ball, 
Barry Hummel scored two lay
ups to give Tech the 66-61 vic
tory.
TechFGFTPts
Houser339
Keefer317
Burdett8117
Kalin237
Lang317
Hummel4311
Meister204
Weborg124
Totals261466
St. VincentFGFTPts
Pranaitis8218
Bernas5111
Ostrosky317
Antkowiak124
Laufer317
Conley408
Plesha226
Totals26961
Field goal percentage: CIT 36.1 
per cent, St. Vincent 40.6 per 
cent.
Free throw percentage: CIT
66.7 per cent, St. Vincent 34.6 
per cent.
Halftime score: VIT 31, St. Vin
cent 29.
Tartans Top Thiel
Last Tuesday Thiel fell to the 
consistent, but not extremely 
shrarp, attack of the Tartan quin
tet. With Thomas An til and Monc'ok leading the early scoring, 
Thiel jumped out to an early 
lead and led at the half, 32-25. 
Then CIT switched from the us
ual man-to-man defense to a 1-3-1 
zone which forced the Thiel five 
into a half a dozen turnovers in 
half. In the first eight minutes of 
the early minutes of the second 
this period CIT outscored Thiel
14 to 4, and from then on the 
Tartans controlled the game. Ray 
Burdett once again was hot on 
offense, for he led all scorers 
with 22 points. But it was Jeff 
Kalin with eight points in the 
first 10 minutes of the final per
iod who put CIT out in front. He 
v.as the second leading scorer 
for CIT with 15. Dave Thomas, 
a 6-5 freshman for Thiel, hit bet
ter than 50 per cent of his shots 
from outside and led the Tomcat 
scoring with 18. What kept CIT 
from breaking the game wide 
open was their offensive rebound 
totalfour.
The statistics:
TechFGFTPts
Houser6113
Keefer408
Burdett8622
Kalin6315
Lang317
Totals271165
ThielFGFTPts
Baird226
Massey011
Mondok4614
Thomas9018
Antil5313
Stillisano102
Totals211254
Halftime score: CIT 26, Thiel 
32.
Field goal percentage: CIT 47.3 
per cent, Thiel 38.2 per cent.
Free throw percentage: CIT
68.7 per cent, Thiel 80 per cent.
Kalin Top Scorer
Alleghenys second battle with 
Tech last Thursday proved to be 
a repeat of the first. CIT took 
an early lead and expanded it 
rapidly to a 37-18 halftime edge. 
With the second half 10 minutes 
old, and Tech at a 65-33 lead, 
subs came into the game from 
both benches. Jeff Kalin had an
other good night with 21 points 
in only 30 minutes, while Don 
Keefer, Mark Lang, and Ray Buraett each were in double figures. 
Burdett in the last five games 
averaged 15.6, which is remark
able for a defensive man of his 
stature (he got a two-column 
spread in the Press last week). 
John Gunselman was high for 
Allegheny with 16.
The statistics:
TechFGFTPts
Houser317
Keefer6113
Burdett4412
Kalin9321
Lang5313
Meister215
Hummel102
Eckhardt102
Totals311375
Bridge Club 
Plans Game
Local bridge players are in
vited to a duplicate bridge game 
sponsored by the Duquesne Col
legiate Bridge Club on Feb. 9th 
at 7:15 p.m. in the old Student 
Lounge at the top of the Bluff 
on Duquesne Universitys cam
pus. Fractional Master Points will 
be awarded to the top eight part
nerships. This will be a weekly 
event with every fourth week re
sulting in a full Master Point 
Game.
Bridge is a nation wide col
legiate sport. Information will be 
distributed at the game on Feb. 
9th concerning a forthcoming In
ter-Collegiate Tournament being 
sponsored by Harvard University.
Also, persons interested in participating in IM bridge are re
quested to see Mr. Boyer at the 
IM office in the Gym.
Swim Team Gets First Win
After Loss To Bethany
by Larry Anderson
Four pool records went as Bethany humiliated Tech in 
a 70-25 victory. Bethany, a school which gives scholarships 
to its swimmers, is undefeated this year, and according to 
Coach John N. Trezise, it is one of the strongest teams 
Tech will face this year.
Bethany set pool records in the 
200-yard individual medley (time 
- - 2:11.9), the 100-yard freestyle 
(51.2 seconds), the 500 yard free
style (5:35.8) and the 400-yard 
relay (3:29.4). Some confusion 
may arise as to the difference be
tween Tech team records and pool 
records. Pool records may be set 
by Tech or its opponents, while 
swimming in the Tartan pool. A 
record may be set by any 
Tartan swimmer at home or aw
ay.
Records are considered official 
when a first place is taken and 
the time is clocked by two timers 
or when the swimmer earns a 
second place and three timers are 
present. Both pool and Tech team 
records are posted on the south 
wall of the swimming pool.
Tech managed only one first 
place as John Bennet excelled in 
diving, collecting an individual 
total of 162.95 points. This total 
is arrived at by adding the three 
judges scores together of each of 
the dives and multiplying by the 
degree of difficulty. The judges 
scores vary from one to ten by 
one-half point intervals and the 
degree of difficulty varies from
1.0 to 2.9, depending on the skill 
involved. A diver must do five 
dives of his own choice and one 
obligatory one. The mandatory 
dive is performed by all the 
divers and is chosen by the visit
ing team out of a hat by chance. 
An example of a dive is a front 
one-and-a half in the pike posi
tion. The degree of difficulty is
2.0 and involves one and one-half 
turns in an L shaped position, 
a good substitute for circus watch
ing.
Scoring for all individual events 
is five points for a first place, 
three points for a second and an 
assured one point for third place 
as two members from each team 
complete. In the relays seven 
points is given to the winning 
team.
Swim Team Victorious
The Tartans outswam Cleve
land State University 58-37 in their 
first performance of the season 
last Saturday, Feb. 4.
Once again, Pete Hutter broke 
the school record in 50 yard free
style with a winning time of 23,1 
seconds, besting his old mark by 
two-tenths of a second. First 
places were taken by Merril Moter (200-yard freestyle), Preston 
Biglow (200-yard individual med
ley), Pete Hutter (100-yard and 
50-yard freestyle) and the 400- 
yard relay team of Les Hough, 
John Perry, Merrill Moter, and 
Pete Hutter.
John OBrein returned to the 
team after recovering from a 
broken arm and, with only three 
days of conditioning, finished sec
ond in the tiresome 500-yard free
style to clinch the victory.
