^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56  NUMBER 13 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1963
Y Winter Sports Retreat 
Begins at Semester Break
Mark a big red circle around the days of January 29, 
30, and 31! Not only will final exams be over then, but to help 
celebrate the end of the semester, the Campus YMCA and 
YWCA are sponsoring a Winter Sports Retreat to the Hills. 
The event is open to all Tech students, faculty, and guests, 
whether or not they are Y mem-^-----------------------------------------------------
bers.
The group will leave on Wed
nesday evening for Camp Deer 
Valley, which is -in the mountains 
of Somerset County, right in the 
middle of the heavy snow belt. A 
free rope tow, beginners and in
termediate ski slopes, plus runs 
for toboggans, sleds, and snow 
saucers are all available near the 
lodge. In addition, there is a pond 
for skating, and several trails for 
winter hiking. Sleds, toboggans, 
plus a few skates and some ski 
equipment will be available with
out charge, but those who have 
their own equipment are encour
aged to bring it. In the evenings, 
the group will meet around the 
lodge fireplace for informal recre
ation, singing, and an evening 
snack.
The group who went on last 
years Winter Weekend had such 
a wonderful time that they urged 
us to repeat it again this year.
The cost will be $19.00 for Y 
members, and $21.00 for non
members. Space is limited, so we 
must know soon if you are seri
ously considering going. Reserva
tions will be taken on a strictly 
first-come first-served basis, so 
please do not delay! Your $10.00 
registration deposit received be
fore January 7 will assure you a 
place. We cannot guarantee that 
places will be available for those 
registering after January 7.
Those interested should contact 
the Y Office, 57 Skibo immedi
ately.
TARN rittiioid
Heinz Service
The traditional Christmas Can
dlelight Service will be held Wed
nesday evening, December 18, at 
9:00 p.m. at the Heinz Chapel on 
the Pitt Campus. Sponsored by 
the Campus YMCA and YWCA 
of Carnegie Tech and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, the service will 
be student led and will feature 
readings from scripture, choral 
selections, and the singing of 
Christmas Carols.
Students and faculty are in
vited to attend. Cultural Specials 
will be permitted for this event 
for Morewood residents.
Student Congress
Student Congress will meet 
today at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room.
Presidents 
Organize 
Pledge Council
The Council of Pledge Presi
dents, composed of the pledge 
presidents of all of Techs twelve 
national fraternrities, is meeting 
again this year. The chief purpose 
of the organization is to acquaint 
men who will someday be leaders 
in their respective houses with the 
problems faced by the fraternity 
system as a whole. Another pur
pose is to accustom these men to 
working as a group in solving 
both individual and collective 
problems.
CPP meets six times a year. In 
the three meetings it has had so 
far this year, the council has dis
cussed CITs policy on fraternities, 
laid plans for a series of exchange 
dinners between pledge classes, 
discussed the problems of leading 
a pledge class, and electd officers. 
Gary McWhorter of ATO was 
elected president, Lad Dawson of 
Sigma Nu was elected vice-presi
dent, and Jim Probals of Pi Kappa 
Alpha was elected secretary.
SnS Carols 
At Hospital
This year, as last year, Scotch 
n Soda will be sponsoring carol
ing at the Childrens Hospital, 
with a party afterwards at Beta 
Sigma Rho, Everyone is invited. 
On Wednesday, December 18, the 
carolers will start out from the 
lobby of Morewood Gardens at six 
oclock and proceed to the hos
pital. The party at Beta Sig will 
last until 11:00. The -girls with 
curfews must sign out for caroling 
so they can be allowed out after 
hours. If you cant make the 
caroling, try to make the party. 
The Christmas Party is open to 
anyone, and everyones welcome.
On another note, S n S has try
outs for choreographers on Janu
ary 11 after a meeting on the 9th 
to receive the numbers to choreo
graph. This meeting will be in 
Wherret Lounge from 3:30 on 
and if you honestly think you can 
choreograph, come and try out 
your skills.
Be sure to swing into Christmas 
with Scotch n Soda carol-wise.
Sorority Rushees Accept Bids, 
Form New Pledge Classes
 Photo by Tom Davies
^CAR NEEGI SCTT US OFHLEYt OFu EHdLYEeEFYI dTLeOHEu NLYR 
SLFE nTEuoE dTOAAEA SUg OTT AErEF AUgUgLYLEAs wRE gCAREEA OgE 
FUN nTEuoEA OFu NEOgLFo YRE nLFA OFu dUTUgA US YRE AUgUgLYt 
US YRELg dRULdEs
Students Gather Tues. 
For Xmas Assembly
Carnegie Techs next weekly assembly is particular 
campus tradition of the Christmas season. A general carol
ing program will take place in the Fine Arts Lobby, Tues
day, December 17, at 11:30 a.m.
Everyone on campus is invited to sing carols and to hear
selections by the Music Depart-e---------------------------------------------------!ment, the Cameron Choir, and an
The seven sororities on campus 
completed their preferential bid
ding' on Tuesday, December 26. 
Under this system, each sorority 
submits the names of nine girls, 
while each prospective pledge 
submits her first and second 
choices of sorority. The prefer
ences are matched in the Office 
of the Dean of Women. During the 
past two weeks the sororities have 
open bid other girls, and will 
continue making additional bids 
throughout the year. The new 
pledges number from four to six
teen per sorority, comprising a 
total of sixty-eight new mem
bers, and are as follows;
Alpha Epsilon Phi
Adelman, Susan 
Birnbaum, Dara 
Brill, Constance 
Fialkoff, Barbara 
Fieldson, Nancy 
Kreitzer, Karen 
Liberman, Susan 
Lipis, Joan 
Oboler, Ilene 
Podolsky, Sharon 
Robbins, Linda 
Saltz, Marcella 
Tamres, Donna 
Delta Delta Delta 
Campbell, Laura 
Dick, Jane 
Johnson, Barbara 
Marino, Carol 
Matthews, Archelle 
Moyer, Bonnie 
McCormick, Marilyn 
Parker, Elissa 
Peters; Eleanor 
Peterson, Lois
(continued on page 3)
address by President J. C. War
ner. Henry Boettcher of the dra
ma department will read the 
Scripture, and Dr. Hugh Clark, 
from the Church of the Redeemer, 
Squirrel Hill, will offer the prayer.
Included in the program is car
oling by the Music Departments 
brass ensemble and senior Daryl 
Kemerer playing Binghams Na
tivity Song. The Music Depart
ment chorus, directed by Roland 
Leich and student director Diana 
Dayton will sing The Virgins 
Sonig by Regen and To Us a 
Child Is Born by Praetorius.
Richard Camp will direct the 
Cameron Choir in Lost in the 
Night by Cnristiansen and Glory 
to God in the Highest, by Thomp
son.
Charles Pearson of the Music 
Department faculty is chairman of 
the program.
Thistle
This is the final day to pick 
up your yearbook.
Peace Corps 
Adds to Staff
Continuing to emphasize the 
program of which Carnegie Tech 
was a part a few weeks ago, the 
Peace Corps announced plans to
day for the largest spring training 
program in the agencys history.
Volunteers who have been ac
cepted from the Pittsburgh area 
centers are scheduled for assign
ments in 18 nations and will enter 
training at U.S. colleges and uni
versities in February-March, said 
Peace Corps director Sargent 
Shriver. An estimated 1,500 pros
pective volunteers will partici
pate in the training programs.
In past years, only about 400 
volunteers have entered mid-year 
training programs Shriver said. 
While the peak in-put period will 
continue to be the summer 
months, he said this years large 
spring group will fill urgent re(continued on page 2)
Carnegie Tecli 
Encourages 
Pre-Payment
Each year Carnegie Institute of 
Technology encourages students 
to participate in a pre-payment 
I plan which enables the student 
to settle his financial arrange
ments for the following semester 
in advance of registration.
The advantages of pre-payment 
are several: it permits the stu
dent to receive unhurried coun
selling at the offices of the' Reg
istrar and the Cashier; to make 
i use of the facilities of the FiI nancial Aid Office; and to work 
j out with his parents in advance 
of the pressure of registration day 
| a sound arrangement for pay
ment of his tuition, room, and 
board charges. In addition, of 
course, participation in pie-payment permits the student to avoid 
waiting in the Cashiers line dur
ing registration.
Scholarship students are es
pecially urged to take advantage 
of this pre-payment plan. All 
students except Graduate and 
Special Students are eligible for 
pre - payment of fees for the 
Spring Semester 1963-1964. The 
dates during which pre-payment 
may be made are January 13 
through January 30. Students who 
wish to participate in pre-pay! ment should report with their 
I checks or money orders to the
I Registrars Office, A.H. 145, on 
one of these days from 9:00 a.m. 
to 12:00 noon and 1:00 p.m. to 
! 3:20 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Fa et 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. December 11, 1963
Dr. Ohsol
Speaks to AICEBULLETIN BOARD
^UdGEY iUdLEYt
The rocket society meeting, 
cancelled because of the tragic 
events of Monday, November 25, 
will be held on Thursday, Decem
ber 12, 1963 at 4:30 p.m. All stu
dents and faculty interested in 
forming an amateur rocket society 
at Tech are urged to attend. In
quire at the information desk to 
find out in which room the meet
ing will be held.
lOFET US meEgLdOFA
There will be a meeting for 
prospective members of the Panel
of Americans on Thursday, De
cember 12, at 4:30 in room 54. All 
interested students are invited to 
attend.
mdYLrLYLEA aUeeLYYEE
There will be an important 
meeting of the Student Congress 
Activities Committee next Mon
day, December 16, at 4:30.
wRLAYTE
Friday, December 13, is the 
only day left to return Thistle 
portrait proofs.
ygs 4gFEAY :RAUT
Dr. Ernest O. Ohsol, Vice Pres
ident, Haveg Industries, Inc., of 
Wilmington, Delaware, will dis
cuss The Role of Consulting in 
Chemical Engineering at a meet
ing of the Pittsburgh Section of 
the American Institute of Chemi
cal Engineers.
The meeting will be held to
night, December 11, at 8:00 p.m. 
in SKIBO, following a dinner at 
6:30 p.m.
Dr. Ohsol will discuss the im
portance of outside consultation 
as aid to the solution of complex 
problems encountered by the en
gineer, chemist, and management. 
A number of members of the lo
cal section who engage in chemi
cal engineering consulting work 
will be introduced and their I 
specialty mentioned.
Corps Makes 
Spring Plans
(continued from page 1)
quests from countries in Africa, 1 
Asia and Latin America.
Many of the spring group will 
be mid-year graduates of U.S. j 
colleges and universities who will 
fill teaching assignments, most of 
which require college degrees. ! 
About one-third of the spring j 
trainees will not be required to 
have degrees.
The spring training programs 
will prepare volunteers for service j 
in Somalia, Malaysia, Nigeria, j 
Ecuador, Nepal, Thailand, India. ] 
Jamaica, Togo, Columbia, Panama, j 
Iran, Bolivia, Brazil Chile, Vene- | 
zuela, Tanganyika and the Domi- j 
nican Republic.
Starting Friday, Dec. 6 
ONE WEEK ONLY
THE FOUR s'irri"s>-
Vibrant . . 
DAYS OF Scorching.
NAPLES Epic .. -
Two Big Hits
RICHARD BURTON in
LOOK BACK
IN ANGER
presented by WARNER BROS.
683-6992
ITS A SLIGHT CASE OF LOVE AND 
LAUGHTER WHEN THESE 
LAWYERS GO COURTING!
A BRIEF LOOK AT THE HUMOUR ON T8 LIOHTfR SIDE. OF THE LAW!
MlCHAELCBAIGMARY PEACH 
BRENDA JAMES DEBANZIE ROBERTSON *JUSTICE
. THE RANK ORGANIZATION PRSENTS 
i BETTY E BOX RALPH THOMAS PRODUCT** 
DISTRIBUTED BY DAVIS FILM DIST , INC.
tfiMURRAY AT BEhCO* LlUllU JA. 1-070 0
DAILY: 6:32 E 8:24 E 10:16
SAT. & SUN.:
2:48  4:40  6:32  8:24  10:16
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HAMBURGER & PIZZA SHOP 
   
HAMBURGER - 15< 
PIZZA - 10* per cut 
  
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMITORIES
(Min. Order $1.50)
Open Weekdays Friday and Saturday
10 a.m. - 2 a.m. 10 a.m. - 3 a.m.
MA 1-7388MU 2-8166
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
Craft Ave. Theater
WEST
S1DE
STORY
Tues. ihru Sal. 8:30; Sun. 7:30
Special Stuilent Rate: $1.50 (Sat. $2.00)
Tickets at Student Desk and at Pitt Book Center
The Most Extraordinary Story Ever Filmed!
TwoB igBHt 
osIwS AHsBswt ty 
LGCE TOFVND kJ 
UNVR UOWYN!lV ^
Sidney'T>oit&r
B iS HnFB IM
Released thru UNITED ARTISTS
TheM osht Exr ahhdFORVM
JPHONE
42i-m
OkC^ognswith
MaxShulman
(Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! and Barefoot Boy With Cheek.)
*TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY
If you have been reading this columnand I hope you have; I 
mean I genuinely hope so; I mean it does not profit me one 
penny whether you read this column or not; I mean I am paid 
every week by the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes and my 
emolument is not affected in any way by the number of people 
who read or fail to read this columnan act of generosity 
perfectly characteristic of the makers of Marlboro, you would 
say if you knew them as I do; I mean here are tobacconists gray 
at the temples and full of honors who approach their art as 
eagerly, as dewy-eyed as the youngest of practitioners; I mean 
the purpose of the Marlboro makers is simply to put the best of 
all possible filters behind the best of all possible tobaccos and 
then go, heads high, into the market place with their wares, 
confident that the inborn sense of right and wrong, of good and 
bad, of worthy and unworthy, which is the natural instinct of 
every American, will result in a modest return to themselves 
for their long hours and dedicated laborsnot, let me hasten to 
add, that money is of first importance to the makers of Marlboro; 
all these simple men require is plain, wholesome food, plenty of 
Marlboros, and the knowledge that they have scattered a bit of 
sunshine into the lives of smokers everywhere; if, I say, you 
have been reading this column, you may remember that last 
week we started to discuss Christmas gifts.
i?
'HtF*s.
W
ty w ftw aweone vht 6 i4erdcJ xttkmitfn Bfary?
We agreed, of course, to give cartons of Marlboro to all our 
friends and also to as many total strangers as possible. Today 
let us look into some other welcome gifts.
Do you knmv someone who is interested in American historyt 
If so, he will surely appreciate a statuette of Millard Fillmore 
with a clock in the stomach. (Mr. Fillmore, incidentally, was 
the only American president with a clock in the stomach. 
James K. Polk had a stem-winder in his head, and William 
Henry Harrison chimed the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore, 
of all our chief executives, had a clock in the stomach. Franklin 
Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Taylor had 
seventeen jewels, but, I repeat, Mr. Fillmore and Mr. Fillmore 
alone had a clock in the stomach. Some say that Mr. Fillmore 
was also the first president with power steering, but most 
historians assign this distinction to Qhester A. Arthur. How
ever, it has been established beyond doubt that Mr. Fillmore 
was the first president with a thermostat. Small wonder they 
called him Old Hickory!)
But I digress. To get back to welcome and unusual Christmas 
gifts, heres one thats sure to pleasea gift certificate from the 
American Chiropractic Society. Accompanying each certificate 
is this winsome little poem:
Merry Christmas, Happy New Year,
Joyous sacro-iliac!
May your spine forever shine,
Blessings on your aching back.
May your lumbar ne'er grow numbert 
May your backbone ne'er dislodge,
May your caiulal never dawdle,
Joyeux Noel! Heureux massage/
0 16*3 Mai Shall
The makers of Marlboro, who take pleasure In bringing you 
this column throughout the school year, would like to join 
with Old Max in extending greetings of the season.
ft,

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 11, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
GOVERNOR FILMS 
_ presents
'Press Column 
Aids Students
Pittsburghs Scripps-H o w a r d 
newspaper, the Pittsburgh Press, 
announces the printing of a new 
column by Sidney A. Eisenberg 
called How to Get Money for 
College.
To be run each Sunday, the 
Press hopes that the column 
will help to better inform stu
dents, parents, and counselors on 
scholarship opportunities. Until 
recently there was no central 
clearing house for this informa
tion. As a result, getting money 
for college was a hit-or-miss 
proposition.
68 T ech W omen 
Join Sororities
(continued from page 1) 
Honk, Jane 
Ryzner, Carolyn 
Smith, Margaret 
Spine, BarbaraI
ltfVestover, Janet 
volpe, Mary 
Chi Omega 
Brownlee, Susan 
Cruickshank, Dorothy A.
Gaysek, Marlene 
Hiller, Barbara 
Jones, Marilyn 
Lowden, Barbara 
Schoenfeld Jane 
Smith, Sharon 
Stader, Mary 
xStewart, Lee 
Delta Gamma 
Cohen, Karen 
Dodge, Ann 
Eakin, Mimi 
Gilleland, Callie 
Wolk, Carolyn 
Young, Betty 
Kappa Alpha Theta 
DeCurso, Claire 
DeMarco, Marlene 
Emerson, Rebecca 
^Mihm, Karen 
Samuelson, Paula 
Sigma Kappa 
Aldrich, Carole Ann 
Duncan, Patricia 
Sherwood, Linda 
Townsend, Linda 
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Bidwell, Mary Ellen 
Brown, Rebecca 
Cameron, Nancy 
Daniels, Deborah 
ftDriehorst, Ann 
Fox, Janice Jo 
Hartman, Kathleen 
Horton, Donna 
Kallery, Georgia 
Maynard, Ann 
Mueller, Joan 
Smith, Ann
Wonders Margaret '
The kind of comfort you*d 
expect in a large interior. 
Come on down and sit in it.
Come down and stare at it.New ChevelU Malibu Sport Coupe
inySvrhsF lm!t!x !n a nhy d!nM nf cat!
We built this one to do more than just stand around 
looking beautiful. Held its weight down in the 3,000- 
pound range. Then built four lusty enginestwo sixes 
and two V8swith output all the way up to 220 horses*!
And if that makes you think this is one frisky car, 
youve got the right idea.
Youve also got a roomy car here. Yet its 115-inch 
wheelbase keeps it highly maneuverable in 
traffic and very easy to park.
With its Full Coil suspension, it's got a ride 
that reminds you of the Jet-smooth kind the
way it muffles noise and cushions bumps.
And the fine hand of Body by Fisher craftsmen shows 
up beneath this ones suave good looks, too.
Sound good? Theres more. Like the fact that Chevelle 
comes in three series with eleven modelsconvertibles, 
sport coupes, sedans, wagons, even Super Sport models 
with front bucket seats. Like the fact that (and see if 
this isnt one of the nicest surprises of all) the 
new Chevelle comes at an easy-to-take price!
Like to hear more? The listenings wonderful 
at your Chevrolet dealersand sos the driving.
*Optv>n*l ml extrm <*>*<
See five entirely different kinds of cars at your Chevrolet Showroom-CHEVROLET, CHEVELLE, CHEVY n, CORVAIR & CORVETTE
Y Wintneenr
BY vTEVRoLET
All-Pen 
cartridges fit 
all these pens
Guaranteed for
p oeOlccOF
p AlFaOF
p wWYOFuFnnc:
p $OlFO!OF
p 1OD.W 
o w!OFWelF5
For two-pen studentsfor 
those with pen-giving relatives. Be preparedstart using All-Pen ink cartridges inour present cartridge pen! >ont walk a mile for a 
cartridge. Come in and get 
All-Pen Cartridges.Washable Blue, Washable 
Black, Peacock Blue, Jet 
Black, Cardinal Red, Blue 
Black and Green.
Get All-Pen Cartridges 
6 for 39c or 8 for 49o
CIT 
Book Store
Classified Ads
Dance Music. The Leo Alman Combo.121-2083. Evenings.
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk Guitar
Fred Albitz  Featured at the Casbah
and many other Pittsburgh spots  
and in clubs and bistros as far west as 
Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons 
at The Peter Hughes School of Music. Call: 731-1844.
AUTO FOR SALE  59 Plymouth, new 
paint job. snow tires, very good condi
tion, extras included, call evenings 
362-6859.
The kind of go6 or V8youd expect 
from one of Chevys great highway 
performers. Come on down and drive it.
THIRD GREAT WEEK
'* ?. %>?.  j.-'V-,
The Carry On Crew 
Is Back Again!
DO YOU CRY REAL TEARS AT :i 
COMEDY? DO YOUR SIDES 
ACHE WHEN 
YOU LAUGH
Produced by Peter Rogers
Plus World Premier of 
CORDIC'S COMPACT MOVIE
3m0p:04 .:^ hW04wWai3
Filmed in Pittsburgh
BeO o0iISosIw
5518 Walnut St. 682-1901
n
DeFEREoT IVPE 
oF FoLK
From out of the isolated Brazilian 
jungle comes Los Indios Tabajaras 
and their Maria Elena. Now its the 
title tune for a fascinating new album. 
A treasury of tribal folk songs like 
Maran Cariua, Los Indios Danzan 
and Baion Bon. Get this album and 
hear the most intriguing new sounds 
in music today-at your record shop.
Rxfe UIIToRA
^The most trusted name in sound
BBBBSBMMBBBgBBBBBBBBMBBBBB

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 11, 1963
Press Conference With Governor 
Shows College Student Interests
Three students represented Carnegie Tech 
at a recent Governors college press confer
ence held in the State Capitol building of 
Harrisburg. Attending the conference were 
Tom Miller, president of Executive Council 
of Student Government; Marti Siegal, fea
tures editor of the Tartan; and Miron Straf, 
the Tartans editor-in-chief. Thirty-seven col
leges and universities were represented.
Governor Scranton opened himself to any 
questions from the college editors. A trans
cription of a few questions and replies fol
lows:
Tom Miller, Carnegie Tech: Being from 
one of the few wet schools that are left in 
the State, I was wondering ...
Governor: One of the few what, sir?
Miller: Wet schools.
Governor: Wet schools?
Miller: Where theyre allowed to serve 
drinks.
Governor: Oh?
Miller: I was wondering whether the re
cent change in the liquor legislation was aim
ed precisely at college fraternities and col
lege social organizations, and what your 
opinion is as to how this should be handled 
in the college area.
Governor: Boy, youve got me. Whats he 
talking about? (Laughter) Im not trying to 
be funny; I really mean it. What change are 
you referring to?
Miller: It went into effect, I believe, in 
October, and now placed the burden also 
upon the one who is served as well as the 
one who serves.
Governor: Oh, I see. Yes. A bill was pass
ed in the last session of the Legislature, in 
which there is a change in the legal burden 
of proofs in cases where a minor is being 
served by a bartender or tavern operator. 
Well, I think this is quite proper, frankly, be
cause I dont think the whole burden should 
lie on the server. I think it also should lie 
on the receiver. This isnt a major policy of 
how you handle liquor, or anything of that 
sort. What it really is is a legal status within 
the courts on cases of this sort which, in my 
opinion, is a step forward, sir. Does that 
answer your question?
Miller: Well, I was wondering more if it 
was aimed particularly at colleges .. .
Governor: Oh, no, its not particularly 
aimed at any group under the age of 21, or as 
a matter of fact, any particular group in gen
eral. We had a great many cases in the State 
where tavern operators and bartenders and 
so forth were being convicted of doing this, 
when a lot of it was aggravated by the per
sons themselves who were on the receiving 
end, and I think they have a responsibility 
too. Walter, am I not correct abou this? Im 
sorry I didnt catch your question at first sir.
4u Williams, West Chester State College: 
Do you feel that theres any discrimination 
involved in the fact that between West 
Chester State College and Cheyney State 
College, which are approximately ten min
utes apart by car, there is a Negro popula
tion at Cheyney State College of about 95% 
and 5/o at West Chester?
Governor: Well, now youve got me. Ive 
never been to Cheyney, so far, I have been 
to West Chester, and Im trying to get to 
all of them. There are four or five of them 
that Ive not been to yet. From the statistics 
that you give me, it would indicate that this 
was an unfair proportion, yet; but percisely 
why it is, or the full reasoning behind it, 
I mnot completely familiar with, and per
haps I should be.
Williams: Do you think it would be ad
vantageous to combine the two schools?
Governor: I dont think I can answer that 
question, either, until I have seen them, and 
seen the situation. Ive been to West Chester, 
and looked it over pretty thoroughly, but
'  I I A- ' ^ i:% r \ k JlfiI v*m  IMm
 Photo by Tom Miller
-UrEgFUg idgOFYUF UFANEgA fCEAYLUFA US 
aUTTEoE FENAeEFs
Ive not yet been to Cheyney. My best guess 
is that we probably need both, whether there 
are excessiv groups of one or the other, be
cause it seems to me we need all 14 state 
colleges, even though they are located near 
one another.
Joan Bishoff, East Stroudsburg State Col
lege: In regard to the recent Supreme Court 
decision as far as the role of prayer in public 
schools is concerned, will you give us your 
opinion?
Governor: Yes, certainly. In the first place, 
when I was in the Congress, after the de
cision by the Supreme Court on the New 
York State Board of Regents case, I was one 
of several Congressmen who entered a reso
lution suggesting a Constitutional amend
ment so that you could have prayers and 
Bible reading in schools, providing it was 
done on a voluntary basis, that is, that no
body was forced to listen or participate. And 
I still feel this way, quite strongly. However, 
the Supreme Court has made this decision. It 
is the law of the land. I think until we can get 
this Constitutional change we must obey 
what they say, whether we like it or. not. 
It can be changed only by such a Constitu
tional amendment.
Steve Sansweet, Temple University: Now 
that the college loan referendum has pass
ed, do you feel that you have a mandate 
from the people to do more for colleges, uni
versities, and their students?
Governor: Well, you know, Steve, its an 
interesting mandate, because as you will re
member, the question that was put on the 
ballot not only included loans but also the 
possibility of amending our Constitution so 
that we could have grants. Its my opinion 
that we should first start out with a program 
that has already been passed by the Legisla
ture, which allocates about $425,000 of State 
money, which doesnt mean very much in the 
whole program, because this is just a guar
antee. It is used as a guarantee for private 
institutions like banks, savings and loan and 
insurance companies to make loans which we 
believe they can do up to about 5 or 6 million 
dollars, which would take care of between 
5,000 and 8,000 students. I think we ought to 
get the administration of this going, and 
working well, before we add onto it, al
though I think you know my feeling, because 
I made it very clear when I was in the Con
gress that I think both the National Govern
ment and the State Government should be 
doing a good deal more than they presently 
are with regard to scholarships for students 
who go to college. So we have the authoriza
tion for doing more.
i glD(VO ND YeO IlFaDOWW
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Is Knowledge Possible
With the Christmas season rapidly approaching, mens I 
thoughts are supposed to turrf to higher entities  or so 
religious leaders say. In keeping with this spirit, this article 
will be devoted to serious matters.
Many persons believe that a God exists, and will not 
admit to any possibility that there is no God. Why? Perhaps 
a person so believing has had a personal experience. But 
surely humans, being fallible, can be mistaken. Any ideas 
which a person holds can seem true without necessarily be
ing true. Or perhaps the person believing in a God (or Gods) 
accepts what has been written in whatever books he thinks $ 
are holy. But these books have come down to us by human 
testimony, and surely humans can change meanings, alter 
truths, etc. even when they do so in good faith. To take 
an example, perhaps the apostles were not really saints (or 
whatever); perhaps they just saw a good thing and wrote 
propaganda. The reader may think that this is not probable 
 and he is entitled to his opinion  but is it not con
ceivable? David Hume has written  ... . No human testimany can have such force as to prove a miracle and make 
it a just foundation for any such system of religion. It 
would seem that no religion can be accepted without doubt.
But can this not be extended to everything? Can a 
person say that he exists? If it is conceivable that the person 
does not exist because he is just a character in a dream, 
given his thoughts by the dreamer, then it is conceivable 
that the person does not exist. In fact does not every per- j 
son change constantly? (This is not sure if nothing is.) Then 
perhaps the person being discussed existed a moment ago, 
but does not exist now. And anything which has been true 
in the past (F=Ma) need not be true in the future simply 
because the relationship seems to hold. It may be that ^ 
there is no necessary relationship between cause and effect.
If a person is willing to admit that nothing can be 
known beyond doubt, he may still claim that some even 
are more probable than others. But if nothing can be known 
beyond doubt, then no event can be said to be probable 
without admitting the possibility that this, in fact, may not 
be true. (How is a person to choose among the many 
religions on Earth  all claiming to be right  and all 
proving this beyond doubt? But of course this is an ex
treme example. It may not be relevant, but it is interest- ^ 
ing).
The above discussion is obviously only a beginning. 
Nearly every sentence could be the topic for a thesis. The 
skeptical attitude that the author has (or thinks he has) can 
not be adequately represented here, but some idea of it has 
been given. The question arises as to how man can live if 
he accepts the above statementsalthough implicit in them 
is the possibility that they may be mistaken. This question 
and others will be discussed next week.
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CAONEQIE W0iwWwcwk :S wWa,0:D::b
Editor In-Chief.............................................Miron Straf
Managing Editor ...........................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager...................................Michael McCoy
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
News Editor...............,.................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor ................................Alma Rock
Features Editor...........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ................................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ................................John Norris
Sports Editor .....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ...........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising u2 National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, l?orbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
4uLYUgLOT 1UOgu6 Charles Hofook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva.
.Mews Staff: Dale Chodorow, Bob Fritz, Callie Gilleland, Miriam Gillespie, Tom 
Glassberg, Bob Griscom, Karen Mihm, Marti Moore, Marion Mulligan, Jim 
Panepinto, El lisa Parker, Peggy Riva, Penny Ross, <5retchen Smith, Bob 
Wohlford.
Features Staff: Jeffrey Axelrad, Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg, Martha Hodgson, 
Arlene Kadish, Marion Mulligan," Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells, Stephen Yafa. 
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Eider, Randy French, A1 Green,
Chris Macosko.Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely Philofsky, Ted 
Pierce, Marion Mulligan.
Copy Staff: Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Jane Keeler, Mary Lou 
Recco, Ginny Salko Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty, Verna 
Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarian Beth Carten, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, 
Carol Karaell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino
grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Staff: George Kail. J E. Miller. Tom Chamberlin.
Pboto htaff: Tom Clements, Jim Pawley, Joe OConnor, Johns Osias, Howard 
Schwartz.
1

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 11, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e 9
*Rare Exhibit Features 
History of Printing
The early history of printing, publishing, and book design 
is documented in a special exhibition, Treasures from the 
Flantin Morteus Museum, which will be on view at The Hunt 
* Library until Friday, December 20. The exhibit will be shown 
on the fourth floor of the library from 8:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
weekdays, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00^---------------------------------------------------------
*
p.m. on Saturday, and from 2:00 - 
6:00 p.m. Sundays.
The material is making a tour 
of leading museums and librarifes 
across the country under the aus
pices of the Smithsonian Institu
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, 
and is co-sponsored by the 
Belgian Embassy.
Among the rare original items 
Included in the exhibition are 
punches for the type face ascendonica romaine by Robert Granjon, and original woodblocks, cop
perplates, and engravings, illus
trating books published by Pantin. And the Moretuses in the 16th 
and 17th centuries are two origin
al drawings for illustrations by 
Martin de Vos, one of them drawn 
on a wood block (also on dis
play). A manuscript of the cele
brated medical treatise by Andreas 
and Juan Valverda, Vivas figures 
de las partes del querpo humano, 
prepared for the Spanish edition, 
is another unusual item included. 
The manuscript, now bound in 
book form with the engraved il
lustrations pasted in, shows the 
printers correction for typeset
ting.
Christopher Plantin, the foun
der of what was to become the 
finest printing house in Europe 
during the 16th and 17 centuries, 
was born ca. 1520 near Tours. He 
was apprenticed to the famous 
printer Robert II Mace in Caen, 
and then in 1549 moved to Ant
werp, at that time a great com
mercial and cultural center. There 
he practiced the trade of book
binder, until a wound inflicted in 
a street fight forced him into a 
less strenuous profession  print
ing. Shortly after embarking on 
his new career, Pantin establish
ed himself as a man dedicated to 
publish books on a large scale. He 
obtained punches from the fore
most punchcutters of his time, in
cluding Claude Garamond and 
Robert Granjon and his inventory 
contained as many as ninety dif
ferent bodies of type, Romans, 
Italics, Greeks, Hebrews, musical 
notes, and others.
The major work published by 
his house during Plantins lifetime
was the Polyglot Bible, a massive 
edition of the Bible in five lan
guages (Latin, Greek, Hebrew, 
Syriac, and Cbaldaic). The eight 
folio volumes, apearing between 
1568 and 1572 were an achieve
ment of both scholarship and 
printing. Despite interruptions 
caused by religious and political 
unrest, Plantin published an aver
age of nearly fifty books a year 
for the 34 years of his career. He 
pioneered in the use of engravings 
rather than woodcuts to illustrate 
books. When he died in 1589, the 
house and the fine traditions he 
started passed into the hands of 
Jan Morteus, his son-in-law, and 
Morteus sons Balthasar and Jan 
IL
The Morteuses, extending Plan
tins experiments with illustration, 
emphasized beauty and elegance 
in their publications. They em
ploy leading artists of their time, 
notably Peter Paul Rubens, to 
make illustrations. The exhibition 
contains facsimile reproductions 
of Rubens drawings, the copper
plates executed from them, and 
modern pulls from the original 
plates. Other samples from the 
presses of the printing house are 
shown: type proofs, initial letters, 
emblems, and designs for the de
vice of the press, Labore et Constantia. The show contains a 
number of documents and auto
graph letters, among them a priv
ilege signed by Philip II of Spain 
granting Plantin a monopoly for 
the Polyglot Bible and a contract 
between Rubens and the first 
Balthasar Moretus.
In 1876, the printing house was 
given to the city of Antwerp to 
become a museum. The old print
ing presses are now run to print 
samples from the old type, wood
blocks, and copperplates in the 
large collection. The museum pre
serves the tools of the printing 
trade (15,000 type matrices and
5.000 punches) and more than
18.000 drawings, woodcuts, and 
copperplate engravings  the best 
collection of its kind in the world. 
Before the American tour of this 
exhibition, material from the 
museum had been shown outside 
of Antwerp only twice.
Food Service 
Schedule
The following will be the sched
ule for the cafeterias in Skibo dur
ing the holidays.
Staff Cafeteria will close De
cember 20 at 1:00 p.m.; will re
open January 6 at 11:30 a.m. 
Snack Bar will close December 20 
at 7:00 p.m. - reopen January 5 
at 3:30 p.m. (Snack Bar will be 
open December 31 from 8:00 
a.m. to 7:00 p.m. for limited food 
service)
Main Cafeteria will close Decem
ber 23 at 7:00 p.m. - reopen 
December 26 at 7:30 p.m. - close 
December 30 at 7:00 p.m. - re
open January 2 at 7:30 a.m.
Series Aims For Unity
Four professors representing the humanities and social 
sciences, the department of science, the graduate studies 
and Margaret Morrison Carnegie College discussed the sub
ject Professionalis mfor What? last Wednesday, December 
4, in the auditoriu mof GSIA. The discussion was the second 
in a series of colloquia to be held^
held this year at Tech.
The initial discussion was on 
the topic What the Sciences Say 
and What the Arts Say. The 
sris is aimed at bringing to
gether scholars of different dis
ciplines and specializations. The 
men meet in public conversation 
to discuss a fundamental ques
tion of interest to Carnegie Tech 
and to our culture.
The four conversationalists for 
the second colloquim were: John 
R. Coleman, dean of the Division 
of Humanities and Social ScienWALLYS
TwoBigHtwsISA 
LGC
,ci,KlcllW4i
D:m.4^i
Bmiim-Wa
.D:^i,4WB
EOLGC
,ci,KlcllW4i
D:m.4^i
.Dmwi
y^4ii i,:4i
Sandberg Wins 
Appointment
Dr. John Hilmer Sandberg, a 
Tech faculty member, has been 
appointed to the Teacher Educa
tion Advisory Committee of the 
Department of Public Instruction 
in Harrisburg.
The committee is made up of 
15 representatives from teacher 
training institutions around the 
state. The function of the com
mittee is to advise the Depart
ment of Public Instruction on 
policies affecting more than 70 
colleges and universities in Penn
sylvania which prepare under
graduates for teaching careers.
Dr. Sandberg is an assistant 
professor of psychology and di
rector of teacher education in the 
division of Humanities and So
cial Sciences, and he was a cur
riculum planning specialist in the 
Pennsylvania Department of Pub
lic Instruction from August, 1962 
to Auugust, 1963.
ces; Robert W. Corrigan, Andrew 
Mellon Professor and head of the 
department of drama; Charles L. 
McCabe, dean of graduate studies 
and professor of materials sci
ence and technology; and Erwin 
R. Steinberg, dean of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College. 
Beekman W. Cottrell, associate 
professor of English, will serve 
as moderator.
The entire series of colloquia 
is open to the public and no ticket 
is required.
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
Hart Directs 
Tech Concert
Pittsburgh, Pa., December 5, 
1963  The Carnegie CollegeCommunity Orchestra will pre
sent its first concert of the season 
on Saturday, December 15, at 
8:30 p.m., in Carnegie Music Hall.
Sidney Harth, world-famous 
violinist and head of the Music 
Department here at Tech, is the 
conductor of the orchestra. Mem
bers of the orchestra include stu
dents in the department of music 
and qualified adult musicians from 
outside the school.
The program is as follows: 
Gluck -  Iphigenia in Aulius 
Overture
Schumann-------Symphony No. 3
in E flat Major, 
Op. 97
Moussorgsky-------Pictures at an
Exhibition
Tickets may be bought at 
Hornes Music Center, Volkweins, 
Wagner-Bunds, Carnegie Tech 
the box office.
This Week In Pittsburgh
ON CAMPUS:
Film Arts, The Dead of Night, Thursday, December
12, 4:30, 7:00, and 9:00.
Hewlett Gallery-Tectonic Sculpture by Erwin Hauer
Hunt Library, fourth floor exhibition, Piantin-Moretus 
printing collection, Antwerp, Belgium.
OFF CAMPUS:
Syria Mosque, The Pittsburgh Symphony, Robert 
Casadesus, guest pianist plays music of Franck and
Mozart. Friday evening, December 13 and Sunday 
afternoon, December 15.
Nixon, A Man For All Seasons, Bruce Gordon, Albert 
Dekker, curtain 8:30 p.m.
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Jr., Alice in Wonderland, Craft 
Avenue Theatre matinee every Saturday and Sun
day afternoon from December 14 to February 9, 1964.
CONTINUING EVENTS:
Forum, Lilies of the Field, Sidney Poitier, 6:15, 8:10, 
10:15, Friday 6:30, 8:15, 10:16.
Guild, A Pair of Briefs, 6:32, 8:24, 10:15, Saturday 
and Sunday, 2:48, 4:40, 6:32, 8:24, 10:16.
Squirrel Hill, In A French Style, 6:15, 8:10, 10:15, 
Saturday, 2:15, 4:10, 6:10, 8:10, 10:15.
Penn, Cleopatra, Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, 
2:00, 8:00.
Gateway, Wheeler Dealers, James Garner, Lee Remick 
11:30, 1:05, 3:55, 6:05, 8:25, 10:35.
Stanley, Palm Springs Weekend, Troy Donahue, 
Connie Stevens, 11:25, 1:30, 3:40, 5:45, 7:55, 10:05,
Saturday, 11:40, 1:50, 3:55, 6:05, 8:15, 10:25.
Warner, Take Her, Shes Mine, James Stewart, 
Sandra Dee, 11:15, 1:30, 3:45, 6:00, 8:00, 10:00.
Fulton, Under the Yum-Yum Tree, Jack Lemmon, 
Carol Lynley, 11:20, 1:48, 4:20, 6:15, 8:30, 10:30.
LEARN TO BOX!!
Be a master in the art of self defense.
Expert trainers secrets can be yours !
No equipment needed. Form a campus boxing 
club among your friends for fun, self confidence 
and real physical fitness. Complete brochure and 
lessons One Dollar. Send to:
PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, 
Hempstead, Long Island, New York.
Big weekend on campus coming up?
DUFo yLAYOFdE LA YRE fCLdGI sure NOt YU eOGE OggOFoEeEFYA NLYR tUCg uOYEs

---------------------------------------------------

THE WORLDS FAMOUS YMCA INVITES 
^ YOU TO ITS HOLIDAY PROGRAMS
EshtF fac!e!xF fnt Fnut cnm
fntx !n nnh bu!eM!ngeaunMtF, 
cafhxht!a anM cnffhh lrnm, 
batbht, crhcd!ng lhts!ch, TV 
tnnm, nhyllxanM anM xa!ent. 
Rhalnnabeh taxhl:
S!ngehS$2.75 S $2.90 
$4.40 S $4.70 Mnubeh.
WILLIAM SLOANE HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
E)C $OWY ErYe oY dDF NDYe i!OP4 [j5 
Ow SnFa, PSP AenDO: HxcnF( )-)LEE
dHDO TVn:a UFnR AODD oYlYNnD4
....................................iitiir^
aELvoMETo
NEW
YORK
Fage 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 11, 196J
Concerts 
t>i >en Tonight 
At YM & WHA
Ancient Concerts, directed by 
Homer Wickline, will open its 
sixth Pittsburgh season of con
certs of early music featuring an
cient instruments in the Mural 
Room of the YM&WHA, 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave., Oakland, tonight, 
at 8:30 p.m.
The program. Early Music of 
Poland, is entirely devoted to 
chamber music of great Polish 
masters of the Renaissance and 
Baroque periods. This will be the 
first such presentation in Pitts
burgh and quite possibly the first 
in the United States. The material 
was collected in Poland by two 
members of the group earlier this 
year.
Great instrumental and vocal 
music of the 16th and 17th cen
tury composers such as Szarzynski. Sieprawski, Podbielski and 
Jarzebski will be performed by 
Ancient Concerts as it would have 
been heard by the composers 
themselves.
The groups dierctor, Homer 
Wickline, is also its harpsichor
dist. Patty Grossman, Dr. and Mrs. 
Edgar Hoover, Ruth L. Zimmer
man and Conrad Seaman, tenor 
soloist, play the authentic and 
arerly-heard instruments of the 
Medieval, Renaissance, and Ba
rque eras.
Tickets for the Ancient Con
certs performance of  Early Mu
sic of Poland may be had for 
$2.00 each (students. 50c) by writ
ing Ancient Concerts, 202 Emer
son Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa., 15215. 
They will also be available from 
7:30 p.m. on the evening of the 
performance at the door of the 
Mural Room of the YM&WHA, 
Oakland.
 fnoto Dy nowara scnariz
wRE RLoRTLoRY US a.l NEEG NOA YRE uOFdE UF .gLuOt FLoRY 
LF YRE iGL8U 8OTTgUUes
WRCT Holiday Program
Special Christmas Program on Sunday, December 15, 1963
5:30A special broadcast from the South African BroadCompany . . . CHRISTMAS CAROLS WITH 
NICK TAYLOR.
7:00On Concert Classics, A PROGRAM OF CHRISTMAS 
CLASSICS WITH THE MORMON TABERNACLE 
CHOIR
8:00On Bandland, Christmas with a Big Band Sound.
9:00THE SOUND OF CHRISTMAS, a special program 
repeated from last year by demand.
10:00On Showcase, Dickens classic, THE CHRISTMAS 
CAROL with Anew McMaster and Siobhan 
McKenna.
11:00A Jazz Christmas.
Between aTOAAEA Ug at Study Break s s s
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
92M .:^14i mb40c4
   and   
^:cw4 I 0:^w, :. 4w0m !2M l400 mb4s
The Brute
BEFFEF ingOt yEUuUgOFY LA gCooEus ,Ogu NUgGLFos DUFo TOAYLFos 
yETLrEgA 9 YLeEA YRE OFYLKnEgAnLgOFY nUNEg US OFt UYREg TEOuLFo 
eEFZA uEUuUgOFY wROYZA gLoRYs 9 YLeEA YRE OFYLKnEgAnLgOFY nUNEgs 
BEFFEF ingOtsss LF YRE ROFut AfCEEPE 8UYYTEs XROY O 8gCYE W
0H$ BH AU SHUt wGiGwMwB i0 $wIIsG
Pehalh lhnM xyn nhy bnndehxl, "Tny xn Pean Ynut Engaghmhnx anM ahMM!ng 
anM "vrnnl!ng Ynut D!amnnM R!ngl, bnxr fnt nneF 25*. Aeln lhnM lmhc!ae 
nffht nf bhaux!fue 44 magh Bt!Mh'l Bnnd.
Namei((FOWWP
gNY2____
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, SYRACUSE 2, NEW YORK, 1320J
Keeps
DIAMONDa.ke
RINGS
For Style 
Quality and Value
wgCE OgYLAYgt LA EHngEAAEu LF 
YRE 8gLTTLOFY SOARLUF AYtTLFo US 
ErEgt hEEnAOGE uLOeUFu EF*
oOoEeEFY gLFos 4OdR AEYYLFo LA 
O eOAYEgnLEdE US uEALoFI gE*
STEdYLFo YRE SCTT 8gLTTLOFdE OFu 
8EOCYt US YRE dEFYEg uLOeUFu 
sss O nEgSEdY oEe US STONTEAA 
dTOgLYtI SLFE dUTUg OFu eEYLdC*
TUCA eUuEgF dCYs
mCYRUgLPEu hEEnAOGE VEN*
ETEgA eOt 8E TLAYEu LF YRE pETTUN 
lOoEAs bLALY UFE LF tUCg OgEO 
OFu dRUUAE SgUe eOFt 8EOCYL*
SCT AYtTEAI EOdR NLYR YRE FOeE 
&hEEnAOGE3 LF YRE gLFo OFu UF 
YRE YOos

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 11, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e 7
John Carroll Defeats Tech 70-63; 
Tartans Drop 7pt. Half-Time Lead
begun, neither team appeared sure which was defeating Tech 
more successful. The Tartan at- with each score, 
tack, which was two months in Although Tech was sim out. 
the building, still lacked polish, scoring CarroI1 from the floor> 
and although Ray Morrison, Steve ] they were nQt holding up at the 
Foels and freshman Jeff Kalin foul Hne where they hit eleven 
were hitting on jump shots from for tw(?nty and thfi ]ead was 
outside, Tech was making too I changing hands easily to Carroll. 
many errors on both offenses and NeweU was upholding at least the 
j defense. Gacey, Jim Murphy, and floor shooting average by hitting 
; Lou Mastrian accepted Techs
Fired-up and anxious for a sea
son-opening victory, the Tech 
Basketball Tartans could not main 
tain a seven-point half-time lead 
to defeat the visiting team from 
John Carroll University last 
Thursday night at the Tech Gym. 
Carroll brought a shooting ace in 
senior Don Gacey and with his 
points and the self-destruction of 
a successful Tartan attack, the 
Ohioians carried a 70-63 victory 
back home in their own season 
debut.
Two minutes passed in the 
game before either team could 
mount a successful scoring at
tack, and once the attacks were
mistakes and ,added their own in
dividual abilities to keep the score 
close.
Tech was able to overcome some
five shots in the six he attempted 
but his average was not sufficient 
to overcome the flood.
As time ran out. Tech began to 
I lose confidence and play became a of their early errors, and by work- desperate attempt by the Tartans 
ing their plays and fighting hard to break the Carroll freeze. They 
on the boards, with Andy Niedra j were unsuccessful in their despertaking the rebounding lead, Mor- atin ancl the game ended i0-63
rison, Foels and sophomore Jim 
Newell were breaking loose and
in Carrolls favor.
TECH fg at.
Metz ...............................4scoring to lead the Tartans to a Niedra ........................... 9* , i Kalin ......................10seven point half-time lead. Morrison ......................12I Foels ........11As the second half began, it ap- werronen . . . . . . . 4
peared that the Tartans were go- j Cupps'*^! ....... 0
ing to maintain their shooting and
the lead, but their play degener
ated and they stopped following 
their shots as John Carroll whit
tled down the deficit. Gacey added 
to his points scored with compeCARROLL
Gacey ........................20 11
Murphy ....................13 4
Mastrian ....................7 2
Esper.............................5 1
Franko ........................8 3
Vasko ......................6 3
. . . , .. , | Storey ................ 0 0tent jump shooting under pres- j Masey ....................l o
Burdett ...........  1
Newell .....................6
'g1
4
4
5 
5 1 1 0 0 
5
when 
most 
dollar 
pens 
are 
out 
of ink
I
m
the Scripto Wordmaster*refill has 
enough left for a term paper
...and a couple of lab reports
Just about the time you figure your Wordmaster should 
be running out of ink, unscrew the cap. The new seethru refill says in no uncertain terms that youve got 
enough ink left to go on writing for quite a while. You 
shouldnt be surprised. For evep though Wordmaster 
is slim and streamlined, it has a much larger ink capac
ity than ordinary dollar pens. And that makes it just 
about the most inexpensive dollar pen around.
By the way ... you can get a handsome matching 
pencil to go along with your Wordmaster. And that s 
UFTt a dollar, too.
nLAs
2
9a
13
11
5
211
10
28
12
5
6 6
1010
ff2
11
6
3
3
3
302
7
17-0
C
5
S11
THOSE CLEAN WHITE ADLERS
Now youre getting the swing of it. All you have to do is be "clean white sock in 
your Adlers. Suddenly you find yourself doing just as you please, and the whole world 
beaming unquestioning approval. Youll like it. Girls love it. And all because ol 
the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock. In white and a covey of colors. $1.
g*gis $P sIM CANADA: WM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. December 11, 1963
IM Volleyball Season Closes; 
Eight Teams Await Playoffs
As regular season play came to an end in the intramural I 
volleyball program last week, only eight teams remain in 
the running for the championship. The GRAD EAGLES are 
cast in the role of favorites, but only one of four other con
tenders: ATO, the DORM-TROJANS, SAE, or TDP are cap
able of upsetting the GRADS on^ * _ "
a given day. First round pairings! f I I T 
find ATO squaring off against / OO/0 I 0DD/S 
TDP in a game which must be, ,
rated as a toss-up., SAE facing 
BTP with the BETAs cast in the
underdog role, the DORM-TRO- j The Dorm-Trojans are out to 
JANS being given the nod, and defend their intramural table 
finally the powerful GRADS j tennis crown, and it appears that 
meeting an as yet undetermined j the only team that might stop 
opponent with the GRADS being them is the Grad Eagles. The 
an overwhelming choice.
In league play last week, ATO 
completed an undefeated season i win il though, since both these 
by taking two straight from PKT, j **uads sPrt undefeated records, 
and two out of three from the The onl-v other undefeated team 
MARAUDERS. The MARAUD- ls Beta. Theta Pi, but the Betas
ERS. meanwhile, took two of jdon>t look stron enouh to stoP 
three from the WHALES to clinch the Dorm-Trojans. 
a play-off berth. The GRAD If the Tro->an A led by last 
EAGLES ripped SIGMA NU in years campus champ Venn Chari,,  , j I defeat the Grads in the simifinals, jtwo games, and then took two 0hances are that it will be DormDorm-Trojans Win Soccer Title, 
Beat Internationals In Playoff
Grads will have to stop botfi the 
Trojans A and B" teams to
1CYdR .UtEg GLdGA 8UTT uUNFSLETu SUg yUgeKwgUOFA LF dROenLUFARLn oOeEs
from BTP to finish their season 
undefeated. Then the BETAS 
clinched a play-off spot by down
ing KAPPA SIGMA in two games. 
The DORM-TROJANS capped an] 
unbeaten season with 15-6 and; 
15-8 decisions over DU, and 15-6 
and 15-3 victories over TDP. Thej 
TAU DELTS clinched their play-1off spot by taking two out of 
three from BSR. SAE won two j 
out of three from the DELTS, and 
then took two from the DUNK- | 
ERS to finish at the top of the 
Serve League, while the secondplace position is yet to be de
termined.
In other league action victories 
were claimed by: the WHALES 
over TDP B", ATO \B over 
the TECHNOCRATS, the GRAD: 
FALCONS over DU, and KAPPA 
SIGMA over the GRADS. The 
DUNKERS nipped ATO B,' the 
GRAD FALCONS whipped BSR, 
and PKT romped over TDP B 
in other games.
Tomorrow night at 7:00 the 
championship game will be played 
in the gym. Barring a major up
set in the semi-finals the GRAD 
EAGLES will be facing ATO, 
TDP, or SAE. In any case, the 
GRADS will appear in the role 
of favorites, and it will take a 
determined effort by the frater-1 
nity representative to stop the  
graduate students in their drive 
for the all-sports trophy.
Trojan A versus Dorm-Trojan
B for the championship.
The Dorm-Trojans made it in
to the finals by whipping Beta 
Theta Pi 5-0, while the Interna
tionals breezed by the Grad 
Eagles 5-1.
In the final match, the Inter
nationals jumped to a quick 1-0 
lead, but the powerful DormTrojans reeled off four consecu
tive goals to ice the game away.
The Dorm-Trojans, who outscored their opponents 40-7 in 
the eight games played, were led. 
in its final game by Venn Chari,*' 
who kicked in two goals. Butch 
Fayer, the Dorms high man over 
the season contributed one, as did 
Pete Hutter and Terry Rockwell,
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: BOB GILFILLAN III
Bob Gilfillan III (B.S., 1961) is a man with technical 
background and a flair for administration. This com
bination has been a tremendous asset for Bob in his 
responsibilities as senior engineering assistant.
In his present position, he supervises the Bell of Penn
sylvanias dial operations center at Jenkintown. Bob and 
his staff of 18 are responsible for giving customers in the 
area the best possible dial service. Besides the operational 
functions of this job. he must oversee the efficient engineer
ing and plant maintenance of central office equipment.
Bob came to his present position after a successful 
training period where he demonstrated his ability to attain 
group cooperation in the completion of a project. Func
tioning as a group is important to the progress of telephone 
communications, and Bobs talents mark him for bigger 
and better assignments.
Bob Gilfillan, like many young engineers, is impatient 
to make things happen for his company and himself. There 
are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed 
or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
ALWAYS
Make sure you have enough 
water in the radiator. And in 
the winter add antifreeze. Put 
on chains to have efficient 
traction in the snow. Except, 
naturally, if you drive a Volks
wagen. In this case, just turn 
the key to start the engine and 
drive off. Go and keep going. 
This is just ONE reason for 
Volkswagen being the leading 
import. Far ahead in front of 
the rest in performances, ser
vice, and also in resale value, 
of course. Call M. W. Motors, 
now.
FIAwVNg DSgU DiVR
*61 Volkswagen convertible 
Fully Equipped, Like new 
$1395
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
