Vol. 69, No. 25C-MUTUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1969
Phot* by Bill Ntnco

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Students think in terms of September through June. But an
other year is drawing to a close and there is much to look back 
onand much to look forward to.
To look back. We got Tricky Dicky in the White House and 
Spiro T. as his right hand man. We had a White House wedding 
the bomb, getting bombed, the rice paddies, flanders fields, and 
revolution. We saw Oct. 15, Nov. 15, and are looking forward to 
December. Weve seen, or heard about, silent majorities, con
cerned minorities, revulsion, revolution and apathy. Weve seen 
too much of political presidents and not enough of meaningful 
dialogue. Excesses and deficienciesnot enough of Father Jus
tice but too much of Uncle Sam. Weve experienced nasty break
downs in communicationan numbers and data banks. And what 
about Stud etnedts
Weve seen too much over-reactionand not enough resis
tance. Beautiful people have gotten togetherbut still ugliness 
has been too evident.
Where does it all leave us? What do we look forward to? The 
lottery, a more equitable solution but not enough. More war 
and still talk of winning honorably. Violence and vengeance. 
Sprio Agnew for another couple of yearsand if we may be per
mitted to make a prediction, probably for another four after 
that.
Threats on freedom with the investigation of the New Mobe 
and hope for a new political, powerful coalition. Disappoint
ment with McCarthy, and hope for a new leader. McGovern? Godell? Who? John Lindsay? Kingman Brewster of Yale?
And on campus. What has happened here? C-MU has be
come involved. Aware. BCC. The war. And now another issue 
looms on the horizonwhat about teachers and teaching? Why 
are peoples terms not being renewed? Who is making the deci
sions? Stand up and be counted. Do students have an input in the 
process? If not, why not?
Where are we going? Are we proceeding haphazardly or is 
there a plan we just dont know about? And is that plan, if there 
is one, a good one? What is Nixons direction? What is Stevers?
We are the generation that has been told that we never had 
it so good. We were raised in relative prosperityno world wars, 
nothing to defend with our life (so they say). Yes, we agree. 
Weve had all those nice materialistic things our parents never 
hadbut can now afford to give us. It made them happyand we 
understand and forgive them.
But there is one thing they forgot. What about our insides? 
What should we believe in? What can we stand up and be count
ed for?
So we found our own issues. We encountered a war in which 
our friends have been, and will be, scraped off Saigons walls. 
We have been told that we must defend the world from the Yel
low Peril. But we dont know that so well.
We have our own vision. A world of peace in which people 
may live together, no matter what they believe politically. May
be its naive, but we dont know any better.
In this season of peace on earth good will toward men, we 
wonder whether our vision is so totally absurd. Maybe this way 
of life with the government spending billions of dollars on rock
ets and bombs and only chickenfeed on people is the absurdity. 
Maybe this life of having to give not only your money but also 
your life is not the way things have to be. Maybe polarization is 
not the answer. Maybe we dont have to arm the suburbs against 
the black invation. Maybe it isnt necessary for students to arm 
themselves against the military-industrial complex. Maybe we 
should not have to worry about walking on the wrong side of the 
street with the wrong hair cut. Maybe we dont even have to have 
our heads cracked. Maybe meaningful dialogue is not a forgot
ten alternative.
This is the season to think about what we are doing and 
where we are going. All we are saying is give peace a chance. 
And peace does not only mean the absence of warit is a condi
tion of the heart and of the mind.
TQRlON
Published every Tuesday and Friday. Editorial and Business Offices: Skibo 
103, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. Telephone: 
682-4557.
Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1969
Business Manager 
News Editors 
Features Editor 
Sports Editors 
Desk Editor 
Copy Editor
ERICA BORDEN, Editor-in-Chief
Sue Cattano 
Jenifer Digby and Jamie Edlin 
Robert Rastelli 
Alan Letzt and Larry Brean 
Harriet Nadel 
Sue Gordon
Stud ensnhiukris
General Public Needs
Interpretive Journalism
by Chuck Daly
Something remains to be said 
in the case of Spiro Agnew vs. 
journalism despite the varied in
terpretations that have been of
fered. That is the fact that regard
less of what appears to be over
whelming support for the VicePresidents remarks, the general 
public both needs and wants inter
pretative reporting. Before I am 
labelled a member of an effete 
corps of impudent, snobbish jour
nalists attempting to control the 
information reaching the public, 
allow me to clarify that need fac
tor.
First of all. journalism is hard
ly a preoccupation of any elite. To 
a great extent, the press is much 
more representative than our 
'democratic goverment. At 
least you dont see the sons of 
Midwest farmers in the White 
House (unless you consider Lyn
don Johnson's homestead a Mid
west farm) as you do in journal
ism.
Newswriters are most effective 
in interpreting public occurences 
simply because of the physical di
mensions of the subjects. The av
erage American citizen hardly 
has the facilities for such a large 
repertoire of relevant informa
tion as is necessary to lend mean
ing to significant events. The facts 
of an isolated incident mean little 
by themselves. It is that single 
event in the context of a multitude 
of relevant facts and ideologies 
that tells us something about our 
environment. Journalists are a 
broadly educated lot. with access 
to an enormous bank of facts and 
proximity to the newsmaking 
events, all of which makes them 
inexorably best qualified to inter
pret events of public significance.
But the public must also assume 
its rolethat of ultimate judge. 
The public wants interpretation 
with their news. Surveys show 
that the most widely read news 
portion of a newspaper is its edi
torial section. Isolated facts do 
not make people think as do the 
same events placed in context and 
given an argument. Mr. Agnew is 
mistaken if he thinks that the ma
jority of Americans blindly accept
THE TARTAN
WILL RESUME PUBLICATION
Friday, Jan. 16, 1970
what they read in news analyses. 
Their inevitable vote  for or 
against the editorial policy of a 
particualr news forum  is the 
price of a newspaper or the flick 
of the television or radio switch. 
This is the only satisfactory cen
sor. All others are certain to be 
merely scapegoating kangaroo 
courts. While Mr. Agnew propos
ed no censorship in his talks, his 
remarks have resulted in an as yet 
undetermined self-imposed cen
sorship of the news media. At a 
time when more interpretation is 
both needed and wanted, news 
media may go back several years 
to unstimulating objective re
ports.
I. at least, hope that Mr. Agnew 
saves his role as public spokes
man for policy issues rather than 
using it for partisan appeals to 
the scapegoating nature of the 
American public.
Colt 45 is 27% more 
unique than a 
2 FOOT, 9 INCH CENTER
A completely 
unique experience...
'cHhe National Brewing Co of Balto .Md at Balto Md Also Phoenix  Miami  Detroit

---------------------------------------------------

Attorney M.M. Karpatkin 
To Speak at ACLU Dinner
Tuesday, December 9, 1969THE TARTANPage 3
Publis huied
Marvin M. Karpatkin. the na
tion's leading attorney in cases 
dealing with Selective Service 
Law, will be in Pittsburgh De
cember 16. 1969. He will be 
the principle speaker at the Am
erican Civil Liberties Union An
nual Dinner at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Pitt Student Union Ballroom. 
In the program which is sche
duled for 8:30. Mr. Karpatkin 
will speak on Law. Order and 
the Attorney General." The sub
ject is his own choosing and re
flects his increasing concern with 
the actions and statements of 
Attorney General John Mitchell. 
The dinner and program are open 
to the public. Reservations may 
be made by calling 521-0170 
prior to Thursday, December 11.
Mr. Karpatkin has been in
timately involved in draft resis* 
tance cases since the earliest 
draft card burnings. The bases 
of perhaps the greatest immediate 
interest to Pittsburghers are those 
involving Wolff and James T. 
Oestereich. Both involve puni
tive reclassification based on 
opposition to the draft. The 
Wolff case involved a student at 
Ann Arbor. Michigan who was re
classified and called for induc
tion for protesting at a draft 
board office. The Wolff case was 
won. Following this victory, the 
Military Services Act of 1967 
was written, stating that one 
could not obtain judicial review of 
a draft classification prior to in
duction. This provision was re
interpreted in the Oestereich 
case. Oestereich. a divinity stuTwo Speakers 
On Near East
The Ballroom tonight will host 
two speakers: an attorney who is a 
native of the Near East and a re
porter for the Wayne State Uni
versity paper. They will speak at
8 p.m. on "From Guerrilla Camps 
to Israel  a Report on the Near 
East.
Both speakers were visitors to 
the Near East this summer 
where they toured embattled 
areas on both sides of the ArabIsrael conflict. Mr. Abdeen Jabara. who is an attorney for Sirhan Sirhan in his current appeal, 
went to the Near East as a guest 
of Yasir Arafat, head of El Fa
teh, the Arab guerrilla organ
ization. and the Palestine Liveration Front. He spent several days 
in guerrilla camps. Mr. Jabara is 
editor of hStt iudtkrmotf a jour
nal published in this courntrv. 
The other participant in the pro
gram. Mr. Nikolai Medvecky. a 
student at Wayne State Univer
sity. was a guest of an Israeli 
organization this summer touring 
the areas which Israel claimed 
after the six-day war.
The event is sponsored bv the 
WM-YWCA.
Auction To Aid 
Biafran Relief
The Carnegie-Mellon Student 
Art Gallery presents "Artists for 
Biafra." an auction of faculty and 
student art objects to be held on 
Sunday evening at 8:30 p.m.. De
cember the 14th. All proceeds 
from the auction will go to the 
Biafra Children's Relief Fund.
All faculty members and stu
dents interested in submitting 
art pieces are requested to bring 
their work to the art gallery be
tween 4:00 and 9:00 p.m.. Tues
day through Saturday.
dent and clearly entitled to an 
exemption, was reclassified 1A. 
declared delinquent and called 
for induction for returning his 
draft card. The court rules, how
ever. that civil action could be 
instituted to prevent a draft board 
from acting in an arbitrary and 
capricious manner. It was the 
Oestereich case that provided 
the precedent for the recent reverals of the convictions of David 
Worstell and Larry Demangone. 
These two Pittsburgh youths 
had their student deferments re
voked for having mailed their 
draft cards back to their local 
boards. The U. S. Third Circuit 
Court of Appeals ocerruled their 
conviction in the appeal support
ed by the local ACLU.$a 
Perhaps the most interesting 
case involving Selective Ser
vice Law is currently wending 
its way through the courts. U.S. 
v Zimmerman, in which attorney 
Karpatkin is participating, ques
tions the constitutionality of the 
entire Selective Service Law. This 
case represents the most care
fully documented, most compre
hensive attack on the Selective 
Service Act since its inception. 
In the opinion of many, it may 
well be the most significant case 
to come before the courts invol
ving Selective Service.
Marvin Karpatkin practices 
in New York City and is a part
ner in the law firm of Karpatkin. 
Ohrenstein. and Karpatkin. He 
received his law degree from 
Yale in 1952 and received an LLM 
there in 1953. In 1953 he was 
Special Assistant to Thurgood 
Marshall. He was recently elec
ted General Council for national 
ACLU. He serves on a number 
of important ACLU committees. 
He is also General Council for 
the Central Committee for Con
scientious Objectors, the oldest 
such group in the nation. He is 
Chairman of the Commission on 
Law and Social Action of the 
New York Council of the Ameri
can Jewish Congress and is a 
member of its National Committee 
on Law and Social Action.
Poems of W. H. Auden
by MEREDITH L. HALL and SUE SHILANE
Helen Moore, Headmistress of the Ellis School, introduced W H. 
Auden at the Poetry Forum. Mrs. Moores introduction was not as spec
ific as Dr. Eastmans at the previous Poetry Forum. When Eastman in
troduced James Wright and Richard Bly, he showed parallels yet dis
tinctions between the two poets works which was essential to under
stand why Wright and Bly had been chosen for a dual presentation. 
Eastmans was a precise synthesis of their works; Mrs. Moore's did 
not alert the listener to Audens themes or underlying meaning of the 
poems that would be presented; she merely classified them as "un
familiar poems. She applied the Drydenian criteria to his poetry: 
"written to delight and to instruct. "Auden is a poet of serious is
sues. Mrs. Moore added. The poet delights, yet the poet's "mis
sion is to see that we are not left in peace. Mrs. Moore completed 
here introduction by reading some lines from "In Praise of Lime
stone since Auden was not going to do so.
In many of Mr. Auden's selections, there was an evident concern 
about existence, about what it means to be "in the here and now. 
The poet at sixtv-two seemed to have chosen for his audience selec
tions that in some degree would tell us what he knew about the hypo
thetical "I am.
In "New Year Greeting. Auden's position was that of an entity 
addressing those to whom he is positively as real in substance as he is 
to himself. He referred to the parasites of the body when he addres
sed all those to who his stomach "is as middle as it is to me. "Being 
dead. he remarked, is "to be a past subject of judgment. In "Espistle to a Godson. he spoke from the position of the godfather who is 
responsible for the faith and guardianship of his godson. "The land
scape of life has shifted I can no longer tell you about life. His 
comment on the position of being a responsible godhead figure was, 
"To be responsible for the happiness Of the Universe / Is not a sine
cure.
6 jobs in 6 years is called job hopping?
  

m0
0

*
pnr otbtkkuSmdgJ 
pnr ur .B inorJ
We have a practice called 
planned mobility, a kind of 
intramural job hopping. It 
means you dont go into a training 
program. You go to workat 
different growth jobs that broaden 
you professionally, benefit you 
personally, and help you find the 
specific field you want to grow in. 
Heres how it worked for 
Jim Davis, an M.E. from the 
University of Pittsburgh:
.    
For Jim, it added up to six 
assignments in six years. 
This may be some kind of a 
record. But he didnt 
waste time. Every day of 
it was solid profit.
My first assignment was 
installation of improved polymer 
transfer systems, says Jim. 
Then some research. A patent 
was issued on my device to 
apply steam to a running 
threadline. Next I was a college 
recruiter. After that I worked 
on a five-year forecast of the 
companys engineering needs. 
Now Im in a cost 
reduction group.
*
Your Du Pont recruiter is a 
guy a lot like Jim. Ask him 
about planned mobility.
Ask him anything. The coupon 
will get you some background 
information before you 
meet him.
  * Du Pont Company * ,
 * Room 6689 
o  Wilmington, DE 19898 * f
 Please send me the booklets chcckcd below. . 4 ? Chemical Engineers at Du Pont #
.* ? Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont #
Q Engineers at Du Pont t
? Accounting. Data Systems, Marketing, Production 
Name____
University. 
Degree__-Graduation Date.
Address.
College Relations
An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F)
City..State.
Zip
...............................

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1969
1 block from the dorms
SALON
INTERNATIONAL HAIR STYLIST 
^ RAZOR CUTTING AND HAIR SHAPING
"Skilled Masters In The Art 
of Bringing Out The Best of Your Appearance"
207 OAKLAND AVENUE  BELOW FORBES
by Appointment. . . 682-3738
XEROCENTER * new location 
121 university place
too4ert>ert rf Phnof*
ftBicfcSr*vioHcHOiUMFIFTH pbKiOE
aywa
VDEK-TCATrtEDSy\L_
Lf-fSfcUiMfr
cwil TWDH
a-10 COPiiS 3 Iftchn-ao cower a* Each 50-100 copies* 3* Each 
ADOtTlOMM COPIES' 2* ch P
Compete THtS\5 Service,
(wwor. rrvK.. fV}\vryiTb annueFl. EtbonudbB
A2-3731 oH: rrn -Fr<Voo- 5 00
by John Agatston
The peace movement is now 
bigger than ever. The reason ior 
this growth is the improvement 
in its leadership. After Lyndon 
Johnson resigned the peace move
ment went through a year in which 
the only significant event was the 
 People s Park " activity in Berkerly under the regional leadership 
of Ronald Reagen. It wasn't until 
October. 1969. that the peace 
movement got the national leader
ship so badly needed. It was at 
this time that Nixon came into his 
own with his statement that he 
would not be affected by the Mora
torium. No one should underesti
mate the importance of this state
ment in bringing many people to 
the Moratorium. (Humphrey 
could never have done this be
cause he was the only person who 
could support Nixon's policy and 
the Moratorium at the same 
time. ) Afther the Moratorium. Agnew's criticism of demonstrators 
and Nixon's Nov. 3 speech made 
the Nov. 15 March on Washington 
the biggest one ever.
The main tactic of the Nixon ad
ministration might be described 
with the phrase "bring the war 
home." Many people are under 
the misapprehension that someone 
in SDS thought of this slogan. NixiuBd ,mduovSt 
Onr 1mk 5N mo jExFf 
r1to Unmotv lN5J
Paul is a financial analyst with IBM. 
His job: pricing computer systems now 
under development for the 1970's.
iStvmbrmoO r1t BoeStvmbruAdt
He analyzes all the variables that 
affect the planning, development and 
marketing strategy of a computer 
system. "I deal with over 20 key 
variables that constantly change and 
interact, says Paul.
"Basically, I use a System/360 
time-sharing computer and risk 
analysis concepts to figure the odds
that a given variable in the mix will nS 
won't turn out as predicted."
ytbn--tovurmnok rn -uouOt-tor
The payoff for Paul comes when, 
on the basis of his analysis, he makes a 
"hard" financial recommendation 
to management. "It's pretty tricky," he 
says, "to forecast the price of computer 
systems that may not even be on the 
market for another five or ten years. 
But that's what I do.
"Risk analysis isn't foolproof. It 
involves probabilitiesnot certainties. 
But probabilities are better than 
guesswork. Especially when you're 
dealing with multimillion-dollar 
computer systems."
,mkmr gnBS edubt-tor n??mbt
Paul's is just one example of the 
many opportunities for MBA's in IBM 
finance. For more information, visit 
your placement office.
o qBud weenSrBomrg -edngtS
I'm price-tagging computers for the 1970's."
Notes on the Peace Movement
Angrist Writes 
'Book of Year'
A non-fiction book for teenagers 
by Stanley W. Angrist. associate 
professor of mechanical engineer
ing at C-MU has been rated among 
the outstanding books of the year 
by The New York Times Book Re
view.
Entitles How Our World Came
To Be and illustrated by Enrico 
Arno, the book draws parallels be
tween myth and scientific hypo
thesis. The childrens editor of 
the Review wrote that Dr. Angrists book is an "illuminating, 
comprehensive summary of mans 
attempts to explain the Creation."
Actors Guild
Will Sponsor
Cohen Scholar
The Playhouse Actor's Guild is 
sponsoring a scholarship to the 
Playhouse School of the Theater 
in the name of the Harold V. Co
hen Foundation.
Mr. Cohen, drama editor of the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette for over 
40 years, was a gread friend of 
the Playhouse and gave encour
agement to many young people 
breaking into the entertainment 
business, many of whom are now 
at the top of their profession.
Funds received from donors in 
the community who have express
ed desire for the scholarship 
fund to be established, will be 
awareded to qualified full-time 
student studying dramatic art at 
the school. Individuals or groups 
interested in contributing to the 
Harold V. Cohen Foundation may 
address their donations to: the 
Playhouse. 222 Craft Ave. 
lddmddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddmdddddddddddddmddSeasons 
Greetings
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiniiiimuiiii
on found that he could increase 
South Vietnames support for the 
Viet Cong by increasing the fight
ing. Now. Nixon figures that the 
way to increase the Movement at 
home is to increase the fighting in 
terms of refusing permist. having 
framed-up trials, increasing other 
forms of repression such as wire
tapping and name calling, and 
now even assassinating leaders, 
such as the killing of Black Pan
ther leader Fred Hampton by po
lice while he was sleeping in bed 
at four in the morning. The admin
istration's idea of indicting those
eight people for conspiracy in Chi
cago was a stroke of genius. The 
conspiracy trial has brought to
gether the Pacifists, the New Lieft. 
the Yippies and the Panthers like 
no one else could.
However, we should no longer 
depend on Nixon. Agnew. Reagen. 
Hoffman. Daley, and Hoover to 
lead the movement because they 
charge a high cost to thousands of 
Vietnamese (and now even a few 
Americans). The time has come 
for the peace movement to lead 
itself!
Vaijantimala To Present 
Classical Indian Dances
At the invitation of the UN Gen
eral Assembly, the Indian film 
star Miss Vaijantimala will give a 
performance of Indian classical 
dances for that organization. Miss 
Vaijantimala and her troupe has 
consented to visit Pittsburgh and 
entertain an audience here with 
the program being presented at 
the UN. The music for these 
dances is provided on tape by Ravi 
Shanker.
For those who have not heard 
about Miss Vaijantimala. it may 
be said that her beauty, grace and 
acting talents might compare to 
those of Elizabeth Taylor in the 
Western World. The Indian ac
tress has played the role of ro
mantic leading lady in countless 
Indian movies and shie is also an 
expert of Bharat Natyaman In
dian classical dance.
To make the evening an excit
ing experience. Jim Horne of 
KDKA-Radio will act as master 
of ceremonies. Miss Vaijantimala 
will perform on Sunday evening. 
Dec. 14. in the Schenley High 
School auditorium. Further infor
mation is available at 881-7740.

---------------------------------------------------

Universities Must Be Neutral: 
Shatz Lectures on Town&Gown
Tuesday, December 9, 1969THE TARTANPage 5
Universities and colleges must 
maintain some degree of neutral
ity to avoid take-over from some 
political segment of society and 
to preserve academic freedom, 
said Edward Schatz. vice-presi
dent for Academic Affairs. The 
topic of -Dr. Schatz' lecture, de
livered in the Skibo Ballroom 
Thursday. Dec. 4. as part of the 
University Public Lecture series 
was entitled. "Town and Gown: 
Challenge and Change.
Although the federal govern
ment has not exploited the univer
sity. said Dr. Schatz. new alliances 
will spring up which will make 
schools "ideal consultants.
Dr. Schatz continued that some 
of the universitys attitudes have 
been misunderstood and misinter
preted by both student and outside 
community groups. He cited CMUs position on the Black Con
struction Coalition and the Mora
torium demonstration.
C-MU did not close down the 
construction sites, said Dr. 
Schatz. despite pressure from 
both students and faculty groups 
because "we were being asked to 
use economic power to make an 
important moral statement.
He cited the Moratorium dem
onstrations and said that some 
had asked to cancel classes dur
ing the Moratorium, although the 
Moratorium leaders had stated 
"clearly that universities were 
not being asked to take such ac
tion. He added that the reason 
behind the student's request was 
that they wanted C-MU to take a 
position on what they considered 
an "immoral war.
must therefore be against it and 
"neutrality favors the status quo.
"The university takes this posi
tion because it must serve but not 
be a tool for political action. he 
said emphatically.
He explained that many stu
dents are impatient with the uni
versity for trying to preserve its 
ideals and added that, within the 
past 25 years, the university that 
has emerged as a vital servant of 
society and as a result, it will 
come under new attacks.
"We are certainly not indiffer
ent to the agony of the large socieyt." Schatz added.
Dr. Schatz also emphasized the 
importance of considering the 
position of academic administra
tor as an honorable and a needed 
profession. Although one of the 
problems, he said, is that univer
sity administrators are "ama
teurs and raely have had formal 
training, they have, on the other 
hand, had "what I consider neces
sary experience as a faculty
member. There is no substitute 
for this experience if one is to un
derstand the major component of 
the universitythe faculty."
Dr. Schatz also said that uni
versity administration is differ
ent from corporate administra
tion in that it is "lower key and 
less-direct. The administrator (in 
the university. he continued, 
"works through persuasion, through 
reasoning. Faculties are per
suaded and moved through wellformulated. intellectual and ra
tional arguments, not through 
memors from headquarters.
The administrator's relation
ship to the faculty was mentioned 
as one of Dr. Schatz' own respon
sibilities. One of his functions is 
to recommend to the president the 
appointment and promotion of fac
ulty members. The administrator 
must make sure that the faculty 
is on an "always-improving 
curve. Dr. Schatz said.
He does this by keeping a close 
watch on recruiting and evalua
tion procedures at all levels, on a 
strict application of the agreedupon criteria for promotion, and 
"through his assumption of an ad
versary position from which he 
said, show me. Use all the evidence you have, any tricks up your 
sleeve, bring out all of your rea
sons. but prove your case Other
wise there will be no promotion or 
appointment.
STUDENTS - JOBS - STUDENTS
MEN AND WOMEN 
FULL AND PART-TIME
Pu.OlOuF. Fuf yEyOcy:cb Seb lu kbuiTyFOCylOuF 
OF POll.:eiTr uggOnb ug OFlbiFylOuFyc nud-yFsM 
fb fOcc ySUe.l fui, lu gOl suei .nrbSecb1
Work 15-20 Hours/Week 
Evenings or Weekends 
PART-TIME $65/WEEK
For Appointments Call
687-3077 or 471-7532
Between 9:302:00 P.M.
Activities Board 
Entertainment 
Committee 
Meeting
WHERRETT ROOM 
4:30 - WEDNESDAY
Everyone Invited
Coming 
JANUARY 30
THE 
JAM 
FACTORY
?
Something unique 
in music entertainment
Dr. Schatz said that many in 
the community have criticized the 
administration for putting up with 
some of the students' antics, and 
even some of the faculties' activ
ities. He said the university must 
respond to such cliches such as 
"if the university is not for it. it
presented by
Activities Board(
For your full color 29 x 45 Gentle Journey poster, 
send complete name and address with $1.00 to Beniamino Cribari, 
P.O. Box 77147, San Francisco, California 94107.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1969
Tartans Drop Opener In Overtime, 73-67 
Grove City Romps Sat. For 2nd CMU Loss
by LES KOVALIK
Led by the scoring of sopho
more guard Bob Brown, the Tar
tans came within a whisker of 
victory in their season opener 
against Westminster Wednesday 
night at the Skibo gym. Re
bounding from a ten-point halftime deficit the Tartans surged 
ahead in the second period, but 
Westminster rallied to send the 
game into overtime. After all the 
dust had cleared, the final score 
found the Titans on top 73-67.
C-MU's starting line-up con
sisted of guards Bob Brown and 
Ian Von Lindern, forewards Ke
vin Cotter and Dave Stobbe. and 
center Bill Abraham.
Abraham opened the scoring 
with a lay-up. The initial twopoint edge soon disappeared, 
however, as cold outside shoot
ing and a string of fouls for 
C-MU resulted in a 17-9 West
minster lead ten minutes into 
the half.
The action in the first half was 
characterized by a fast-moving 
Tital offense versus the more de
liberate Tartans. Both teams dis
played a surprising lack of ball 
control with lots of turnovers and 
lost rebounds. The scoring picked 
up on several fast breaks by West
minsters Gary Brown. Several 
Titans ran into foul trouble and 
C-MU began to capitalize on the 
one-and-one situations. The halftime buzzer found Westminster up 
38-28. Browns led the scoring 
for both teams as Bob and Gary 
each netted twelve points.
The Tartans came alive in the 
second period as Bob Brown got 
hot from the outside. In addi
tion. a tight C-MU zone de
fense allowed the Titans only 
four points in seven minutes. 
Dave Stobbe hit on a jump shot 
to tie the contest at 42.
Mike Conrad made an impres
sive varsity debut replacing foul
laden Ian Von Lindern. Conrad 
sank three buckets in four tires 
as the Tartans collected a fivepoint advantage midway into the 
half.
With five minutes remaining 
C-MU was still up 60-55. but 
some excellent defensive play by 
Titan Tim Gribbin turned the 
tide. Desperately clinging to a 
two-point lead in the final min
ute of play, the Tartans fell vic
tim to a number of turnovers 
and fouls. Bill Samuels popped 
a pair from the foul line to tie the 
game for Westminster and send 
it into overtime.
Scott Greenwood played a key 
role for the Titans scoring six 
points in the overtime period.
ghJ.Ba.yw J. cly 7T
FOR LESS!
Ow<r 1000 Ntw 9i12t $15, {20, $19, $39, $49
Ms, 12x12, 12x15s, lfettt .etc.
CHASES
MSS WALNUT ST ShadyskW
Open every day It Vol.6 p.m. 
(Saturday till I pm)
 PHONE OMflU 
photo by JERRY SISKIND
CMU CAPTAIN BILL Abraham takes a bank shot in tough 73-67 
loss to Westminster Wednesday. Bob Brown led Tartan scorers with 
28 points.
Basketball Statistics
CARNEG1E-MELLON
fg-fga ft-fta r
Stobbe 7-3 0-1 4
f
0P6Cochran
GROVE CITY 
fg-fga ft-fta
6-15 6-9 6
4 f
1P18Cotter6-100-06412Roberts5-80-12310Abraham5-62-44212Nagy
BetU
3-52-3738Von Lindern1-50-12524-13-45210Brown6-191-23113Bratt7-182-36216Hardiman2-40-0014Montgomery6-100-01212Grazzini4-133-59111Rohroher2-32-2406Conrad0-50-0220Condit2-20-0314Weborg3-90-0636Calpen1-25-5307Westmeyer2-200.204Frecn2-23-5317
Totals32-806-13511970Totals38-7422-32501598
CARNEGIE-MELLON2347__70
GROVE CITY475198
CARNEGIE-MELLON
fga-fg fla-ft reb pf ptsWESTMINSTER
fga-fc fta-ft reb pfptsStabbe10-20-01034Greenwood11-74-38117Cotter3-23-3637Huy12-61-16413Abraham8-35-21028Schumacher7-12-11623Van Lindern7-22-0354Samuels9-26-5549R. Brown33-126-46228G. Brown12-55-44114Conrad4-36-4606Bell4-10-0002Grazzini7-36-49210Rothern5-21-0054Hardiman0-00-0000Ritchey6-24-342,7
Totals72-2722-13521767Gribbin2-21-0204
CARNEGIE-MELLON
Totals68-28
28
24-17
35
53
4
1973
67
WESTMINSTER251073
photo by MARTIN BAUER 
FORWARD BILL WEBORG attempts a two pointer in Saturdays 98- 
70 loss to Grove City.
Basketball Schedule
Westminster 73.................................................................................... C-MU 67
Grove City 98...............................................................................................C-MU 70
Dec. 8, St. Vincent ............................................................Away  8:00 p.m.
Dec. 11. Oberlin....................................................................Away - 8:00 p.m.
?Jan. 10, Geneva.....................................................................Away  8:00 p.m.
Man. 12. Grove City .....................................................  Away - 8:15 p.m.
Jan. 14, W & J. . . ................................v..............................Home  8:00 p.m.
Jan. 21, Denison .....................................................................Away  8:00 p.m.
Man. 24, St. Vincent ...............................................Home 2:30 p.m.
Jan. 31, Westminster ...............................................Away 2:30 p.m.
Feb. 3, University of Pittsburgh .................................. Away 8:15 p.m.
Feb. 5, Denison........................................................................Home  8:15 p.m.
Feb. 7, Waynesburg.............................................................Away  8:00 p.m.
Feb. 11, Allegheny......................................................................Away 8:00 p.m.
Feb. 18, Marietta ...............................................................Home  8:15 p.m.
Feb. 20, Case Inst, of Tech...................................................Away  8:00 p.m.
Feb. 21. Western Reserve ..................................................Away  8:00 p.m.
*Feb. 23. Waynesburg............................................................Home  8:15 p.m.
Feb. 25. Geneva ....................................................................Home  8:15 p.m.
*Feb. 28. University of Pittsburgh ..................................Home  2:30 p.m.
Mar. 3. Thiel......................................................... . Away  8:00 p.m.
Mar. 4 W & J............................................................................Away  8:15 p.m.
Also J. V. Game.
Go with a company thats really going places.
National Leads 50 divisions encompass over 200 prod
uct lines everything from paints and plastics to nuclear 
fuels and space age metals.
Annual sales approach a billion dollars. And our 200 
plants, labs and offices are located throughout the 
country and throughout the world.
With a BA/BS, MA/MS or PHD in just about any area of 
science, engineering or administration, youll go far with 
National Lead.
Our interviewer will be on campus and happy to give you 
more information on the date below. Or write to our 
College Relations Manager, National Lead Company, 
111 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10006.
tyFeyis 52M 3p62
National LeadIMIAn equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 9, 1969THE TARTANPage 7
TKIANSportS
LARRY BREAN/AL LETZT 
EDITORS
IM REVIEW
iiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiniiHiiHitiiinmiiitiiiiiiiiiniiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
SIX-MAN VOLLEYBALL
The Old Men "A" won the sixman volleyball championship by 
defeating Beta Theta Pi in the fifinals. SN *A" took third by de
feating SAE-Purple in the consol
ation game.
Set League W L
Old Men "A" 5 0
SAE-Purple 4 1
Serve League 
SAE "Gold" won a playoff with 
Sewer System to take second. 
Standings W L
BTP "A" 4 0
SAE "Gold" 3 2
Spike League 
PKA took second by defeating 
BTP -B.
Standings W L
SN A 5 0
PKA 3 2
Pass League W L
PKT 5 0
Oakland As 4 1
Soccer
The Old Men Rebels won the 
soccer championship over the Old 
Men Engineers by one corner kick
Tartans Lose 
First Two
ghJ.Ba.yw WDJo cly HT
Westminster exhibited some fine 
ball handling in using freeze tac
tics which left C-MU powerless. 
With less than a minute remain
ing, the Tartans were forced to 
commit fouls. Taking advantage 
of the one-and-one situation, 
however, the Titans maintained 
their lead. A lay-up at the buzzer 
by Gribbin ended the game.
Bob Brown led all scoring with 
28 points, and Bob Grazzini had 
10. Scott Greenwood and tops for 
Westminster with 17.
On Saturday the Tartans fell 
victims to an overpowering Grove 
City squad. Employing a fullcourt press, the fast-moving Wol
verines dominated the boards and 
converted a high percentage of 
shots from the field to jump 
out to a 47-23 lead at the half.
Despite a number of substitu
tions in the second half. Grove 
City maintained their margin 
over the Tartans. At the buzzer 
the score was Grove City 98. 
C-MU 70. Frank Westmeyer tip
ped in two buckets to score the 
final four points for C-MU. Bob 
Brown again led the Tartans in 
scoring, but only managed to get 
13 points.
The next two contests for the 
Tartans will be away games. They 
play St. Vincent on Monday. De
cember 8th and travel to Oberlin 
Thursday. December 11th.
COPIES - 4*
116' j BOUQUET
Rear of White Tower
682-8552
Apartment Sublet
Available immediately. Two 
bedrooms, utility. Garage in
cluded. $112.50 . . . Close to 
transportation, call 242-2985
because the game remained tied
1-1 after two overtime periods. 
Old Men GSIA took third with a
2-1 win over PKT.
Savash
The Old Men also won the 
squash championship finishing 
with a 5-0 record.
Standings W
Old Men 5
SN A
BTP A
ATO
BTP B
SN B
Im Due Dates 
BasketballJanuary 20 
BridgeJanuary 27 
Next Managers Club Meeting 
Tuesday, January 20, 1970
Swimmers
The C-MU swimming team 
started its season on a positive 
note with a 53-51 victory over 
Westminster. The elated squad, 
which completed an 11 meet sea
son last year without a victory, 
celebrated their opening win by 
tossing their new coach. Steve 
Fagan, into the Carnegie pool. Bob 
McIntyre led the Tartans with vic
tories in both the 1.000 and 500 
meter individual freestyle events.
Medley RelayC-MU (Lowry. Miller. Laroehefle. Mehl). Time 4 12.0.
1000 Yards Free Style1. McIntyre. C-MU; 
2. Kettle. W; 3. Howeel. W. Time 2:04.4 
50-Yards Free Style1. O'Halloran. W; 2. 
Sandretto, W; 3, Freeman, C-MU. Time 
0:24.7.
200 Yards Individual Medley1, Fuller, 
W; 2, Miller. C-MU; 3. Hoysan, C-MU. 
Time 2:24.9.
Diving1. Provan. C-MU; 2, Hendrickson, 
w; 3. Clapperton, W. 135:10points.
200 Yards Butterfly  1, Larochelle. CMU; 2, McCafferty. C-MU; 3. Risk. W. 
Time 2:30.7.
100-Yards Free Style1, Hall, W; 2, 
Mehl, C-MU; 3. Sandretto, W. Time0:54.5. 
200 Yards backstroke1, Lowry, C-MU; 
2, Petre, W; 3, Sivak, C-MU. Time 
2:31.3.
500-Yards Free Style1, Mclntrye, C-MU; 
2. Kepple. W; 3, O'Hallaran. W Time 
6:13.4
200-Yards Breast Stroke1, Miller, C-MU: 
2, Hoysan, C-MU; 3, Blyth, W. Time 
2:43.7.
400-Yards Free Style Relay  Westminster 
(Hall, Wilkins. Sandretto, Fuller). Time 
3:40.8.
TwoSpea krskO
Photo by Mrs. D. Tyler
Action at C-MU-Westminster swim meet Saturday at the Tech pool. The 
Tartan squad started their big comeback effort with a 55-53 victory.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU's Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
? Desk Lamps
? Hot Plates
? Key Service
? Poster Paints
? Artist Brushes
? School Suppliiw nwi riure* ir rosier ramr* 9 jcnooi auppum *
} j 
I 3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND PHONE: 621-0923 j
kb.-uF.O:OcOls8 4 7ueNcc FbEbi :bcObEbw 
DFEucEbdbFl84 J- lu suei Fbn,w 
aSEyFnbdbFl84 hy.l1 Dg sue fui, gui Olw 
RbyiFOFT8 4 RbyiF frOcb sue do!
\i.' And you get paid for it Well paid! -I?
DO YOU NEED ANY MtfRE 
REASONS Id COME AND 
SEE WHY UNCLE JOSEPH 
WANS YOU?
If so, look up Chuck Kline on campus. 
n tu.1 YnrcOlC Brewing vu1M IOcfue,bb yFS ulrbi Tibyl nOlOb.1KKKKKKK
532828932853535393932828532853939353935328532893532828535353939349535353539304939328

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1969
Students Desire Voice
To Evaluate Eng. Dept.
Emil Jarick 
To Give Talk 
At Luncheon
"Middle America." sometimes 
known as the silent majority. 
will be the topic of Emil Narick. 
former general counsel of the 
United Steel Workers of America, 
at the Ys Thursday Luncheon 
Forum this week at 12:30 p.m. in 
the Wherrett Room. He will re
flect. from the vantage point of an 
officer in a large, industrial and 
sometimes progressive union, on 
where a dominant segment of 
working people stand today in 
their social and political attitudes.
If one of the behaviors of the 
silent majority" is to engage in 
"backlash, Mr. Narick may him
self have been the victim of it. He 
was the unsuccessful candidate 
for president of the United Steel 
Workers against I. W. Abel and 
was demoted from his position as 
a result of his challenge of the un
ion establishment and its support 
by the majority of union members.
The Thursday Noon Forum is 
open to everyone, who may bring 
his lunch. Questions and discus
sion will precede adjournment at 
1:30p.m.
IMPORTANT MEETING
lu -cyF -bynb yFS
ulrbi ynlOEOlOb. gui
.bnuFS .bdb.lbi1
acc OSby. fbcnudb1
Sponsored by
EFFETE SNOBS FOR PEACE
MONDAY
Jan. 12, 1970
7:30
Wherrett Rm. Skibo
New College 
Seeks Revisal
Under the co-chairmanship of 
Beekman Cottrell. English De
partment. and Baker Salsbury. 
Drama Department, the MetaCurriculum Committee seeks to 
revise it's membership and rede
fine its purposes to more fully 
meet the challenges and goals of 
the new college.
Interested students should sub
mit in writing a short statement 
detailing their interests in this 
committee to Robert McCurdy, 
director of Student Activities, 
within the next two weeks.
With a growing sense of confu
sion and unrest, students and fac
ulty of the English Department 
met Thursday evening with Dr. 
Eastman, head of the department, 
to discuss the mechanism of pro
motion and tenure within the de
partment and the University 
structure.
As Dr. Eastman outlined proce
dure. confusion lessened, but un
rest grew as it became apparent 
that decisions were out of the con
trol of the English Department.
In the second year of a threeyear contract, that contract automatically comes up for review. 
Dr. Eastman notifies the man 
holding the contract that the Eng
lish Department committee form
ed for that purpose is about to go 
over his contract. The committee 
is composed of his seniors. For in
stance. if he is an assistant pro
fessor, associate and full profes
sors sit on the committee with Dr. 
Eastman. They reach a decision 
which is then passed on to the Col
lege Council for H&SS, headed by 
Dean Steinberg. Their report, and 
the report of the English Depart
ment committee is then sent to 
the University promotion and ten
ure committee, under Dr. Schatz. 
vice-president of Academic Af
fairs.
At each committee level, all 
lower reccommendations are 
heard. If a split should occur in a 
committee, both sides, pro and 
con. are considered at each suc
cessive stage. ^
There is no mechanism for stu
dent input in this structure.
As the meeting continued, it be
came apparent that University 
criteria for judging a man's 
worth could differ from the Eng
lish Departments criteria. For 
example, the University might 
consider publication to be a more 
salient factor in deciding contract 
renewal than a mans teaching 
ability.
It was at this point that the is
sue of student input was raised. 
There is a potential for valuable 
student opinion to be voiced in 
the English Department Evalua
tion Committee which was set up 
for the purpose of evaluating 
courses and the men who teach 
them. It is now under considera
tion to place students on that com
mittee so that the student voice 
will carry weight.
While issues are still unresolv
ed, an advance in understanding 
was made. The meeting was 
small, with the exception of two 
instructors, one senior member, 
and Dr. Eastman.
New Course 
To Examine 
War. Freedom
In response to a growing de
mand for an examination of press
ing political and social problems 
of contemporary American socie
ty. a course has been developed to 
examine these problems from a 
radical perspective. The course 
will be taught using an interdis
ciplinary approach by Professors 
Garver, Greenberg. Rapping, and 
Resnick. Some of the topics to be 
treated include: industrialization 
and humnan freedom, the cultural 
revolution, imperialism and its 
relationship to the Vietnam war. 
insurgent movements by third 
world peoples, blacks, students, 
and women.
Most of the required readings 
are available in paperback form, 
and all supplementary readings, 
many of which are not generally 
available, will be on reserve in 
Hunt Library. The course outline 
and reading list are now available 
at GSIA 302 and Baker 236A.
The course will meet Wednes
day evenings and will include lec
tures and films as well as small 
group and general discussions. 
The course, open to all students, 
is listed as Economics 73-375. 
(Topics in Radial Social, Political 
and Economic Theory.) Under
graduates will receive nine units 
of credit in either economics or 
history.
The Cameron Choir and 
The Music Department Choir
will sing at C-MU's ANNUAL CHRISTMAS ASSEMBLY 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16th at 11:30 A.M.
IN THE MAIN HALL - CFA 
.Everyone Is Welcome To Join In The Caroling
You'll never get anywhere without it.
Nothing helps a young engineer's 
career like being given a challenge. 
Which is another way of saying a chance 
to fail now and then. To make his own 
mistakes.
At Western Electric we give our newly 
recruited engineers responsibility almost 
immediately. They make their own de
cisions. Learn from their own errors.
Don't get us wrong. We keep our
demands reasonable enough so that our 
recruits can make their decisions at their 
own pace. But our thinking is, a man 
feels awfully good about even a small 
decision when it's his.
If you're the type who'd like the chance 
to make your own moves, see our recruiter 
or write College Relations, 222 Broad
way, New York, N. Y. 10038.
A lot of hard work never hurt anyone.
Western Electric
Manufacturing and Supply Unit of the Bell System 
An Equal Opportunity Employer_____________
Black-White Lab Meeting
PUCE CHANGED TO
ANN SCHWARTZ'S 
Woodlawn Apts., No. 15 
Forbes and 
Margaret Morrison Street 
Still at 4:30, TODAY, DEC. 9
