VOL. 48No. 27 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., MAY 17, 1955
Dean David LeavesThistle
f For Florida Post
Tech students will lose a real friend this summer when Dean 
Ben E. David leaves to assume his new position at the University 
of Miami in Florida. He has been appointed assistant professor of 
orientation and counselor of men at the southern school.
Dean David has been here at*  ---------------------- 
Carnegie since the summer of
1947, when he came from the post 
at Ohio State of assistant to the 
dean of men. He assumed his 
present position as dean of men 
in 1952 when Dr. J. A. Dickinson 
resigned, but he has been work
ing closely with the students dur
ing his entire eight years here.
He has high standards of per
formance for the students, and 
he has tried to make Techs activi
ties meaningful. To achieve this 
end, he has worked far longer
Dean Ben E. David
To Assume New Position
than a mere 40 hour week, devot
ing much attention to extra-cur
ricular activities, fraternity func
tions, and all school events. In 
addition, many a student has 
dropped into his office with a 
problem, and Dean David has will
ingly offered his friendly advice.
Heads Orientation Program 
In his new job, Dean David will 
[Continued on page 8]
School Library 
Plans Vacation 
Lending System
The CIT library, in cooperation 
with the administration and fac
ulty, has established a system 
whereby students are encouraged 
to do leisure reading during the 
summer vacation.
A vacation reading list has 
been drawn up and organized by 
author into the categories of fic
tion, biography and travel, drama, 
language and literature, poetry, 
architecture, history and con
temporary problems, music, 
painting , and science and tech
nology. Copies of the vacation 
reading list are available for con
sultation at the circulation desks 
of each of the campus libraries.
Books >n vacation loan are to 
be charged out at the main circu
lation desk. Each student may 
take out any two of the available 
books starting Tuesday, May 24. 
The books will be due not later 
than Tuesday, September 13. Ad
ditional books will be mailed 
during the summer on request, 
the total not to exceed two titles 
at any given time. Books return
ed during the summer should be 
sent to the circulation desk, main 
library.
Liberal Rules 
For More wood 
Announced
This year, the Womens Dorm 
Council has been quite busy go
ing over the rules to see where 
changes could be made. It was 
decided to eliminate many of the 
warnings given for minor rule 
infractions. For example, there 
will not be a definite room in
spection system. However, spot 
checks will be made from time 
to time.
Another important feature of 
the new rules is the allowanV 
of 15 late minutes for each girt 
per semester. These late minutes 
be accumulated in any way 
a few minutes at a time ,or the 
whole 15 minutes at once. How, when a girl has exceeded 
the limit, she will automatically 
be brought before council.
Next year, instead of allowing 
12:30 permissions on Friday 
nights and 1:30 permissions on 
Saturday nights, dorm council 
will make 1:30 deadline for both 
nights.
High Factor, Later Deadline
One of the most important de
cisions is to allow 12:30 permis
sions on week nights for juniors 
and seniors who maintain a 2.75 
factor. Freshman and sophomore 
girls will be given an extra 12:30 
permission (a special), provided 
they acquire a factor of 2.75 or 
above.
The new rules will go into ef
fect with the opening of school 
in September.
Sigma Xi Meeting 
To Be Addressed 
By Dr. Warrick
Dr. E. L. Warrick of Mellon In
stitute will address the Carnegie 
Tech Chapter of Sigma Xi, honor
ary scientific fraternity, at their 
annual Initiation and Banquet 
Wednesday night, May 18, at the 
Church of the Redeemer.
A graduate of Carnegie Tech 
and now an expert in silicone 
chemistry, Dr. Warrick will speak 
about the contributions of various 
scientific fields to the develop
ment of silicone materials now 
finding application in a wide va
riety of electrical and mechanical 
equipment.
The lecture will follow cere
monies initiating 88 new mem
bers, including 15 Carnegie Tech 
senior students. They are: Law
rence D. Andersen, civil engineer
ing; Edward M. .Davis, Jr., Dale 
Horelick, James D. Meindl and 
Wilson W. Sick, Jr., electrical en
gineering; Michael J. Driscoll and 
George H. Miley, II, chemical en
gineering; Richard W. Heckel, 
metallurgical engineering; James 
Stephen Langer, David Clarence 
Larson, and John R. Zener, phy
sics; Berould W. Maurer and Paul 
Louis Sieffert, mechanical engi
neering; Myran C. Sauer, Jr., 
chemitsry; and Virginia A. 
Schultz, science MMCC.
Subscriptions for 1954-1955 
Thistle will be on sale in 
Skibo, Tuesday and Wednes
day from 11:30 to 1:30. This 
will be the last chance to ob
tain a Thistle. Any seniors or 
anyone else who would'like to 
pay the balance of his sub
scription at this time in order 
to avoid a lot of bother for 
himself and the staff may do 
so.
Tech Fulbright 
Scholar To Study 
Drama In France
Next year Carnegie Tech will 
send a goodwill ambassador to 
France in the person of Gwendo
lyn Sheffy. She will be one of 247 
American students to study in 
a foreign country under the Ful
bright Act. Miss Sheffey, who is 
a senior.in Techs drama depart
ment, will study theatre at the 
University of Strasbourg in 
France.
The Fulbright Scholarships were 
established shortly after the war 
when many of the foreign coun
tries owed the United States 
goods. Rather than accept mate
rials form the indebted countries, 
Senator Fulbright suggested that 
these countries instead finance the 
study of American youth in their 
country. This way the countries 
could pay their debts and a step 
could be taken toward creating 
better understanding between na
tions. Today 23 foreign countries 
participate in this program.
Requirements
To qualify for these scholar
ships the applicant must be a citi
zen of the United States and a 
college degree holder, and he must 
zen of the United States and a 
have a knowledge of the lan
guage of the country in which he 
will be studying. Students apply 
through their campus Fulbright 
Program adviser. Mr. Parshall 
holds this position on our cam
pus.
Applicants are screened by 
the board of foreign scholarship 
composed of ten American edu
cators appointed by the Presi
dent. The applicants are selected 
on the basis of their personal 
qualifications, academic records, 
and the value of proposed study.
Tech has had representatives in 
this program each year they have 
been offered.
Girls, girls, girls! Thats all that Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, 
judges for this years Thistle Queen, had to say when they had com
pleted their selection from the pretty candidates. Jeans court con
sists of Jimmy Fam, Diane Bobinski, and Jean Turri.
As in past years, the candidates for Thistle Queen were all 
seniors. Each sorority and each dorm tower selected one candi
date and had her picture submitted to the Thistle to be sent to 
the judges. The Thistle staff is deeply appreciative of the cooperation 
and interest which judges Martin and Lewis have shown.
Lou Teti of TX Next 
Falls CFP President
In the CFP elections held May 2 Lou Teti, president of Theta 
Xi, was elected president for the fall semester. He succeeds senior 
Bill Sick of Sigma Alpha Epsilon who was president the past
* semester. <
Teti, a mechanical engineeringScobell Hall Being 
Greatly Changed
Extensive modernization is at 
present being carried out on the 
fourth floor of Scobell Hall. Sco
bell is the only dormitory that has 
not received this treatment at 
some time during its existence. 
Mr. H. R. Patton, controller, an
nounced that these rooms will 
resemble those in Donner Hall as 
closely as room size and shape 
permits when the process is com
pleted. Wall-type closets and new 
furniture are being installed. At 
the same time, the wiring and 
plumbing of the entire building 
is being replaced.
The top floor will be ready for 
occupancy in time for the fall 
semester. The. other rooms of the 
building will be modernized soon 
afterward, but probably to a les
ser extent, since the room rental 
in Scobell Hall is to be maintain
ed at a lower level than that of 
the other dorms. Rental for the 
rooms on the top floor will necessai'ily be higher than it was prior 
to the modernization.
junior from Buffalo, has been a 
member of CFP for three sem
esters and has erved as chairman 
of the organizations service com
mittee. He has been president of 
his fraternity for two semesters.
Other newly elected officers are: 
vice president, Bill McDonald, a 
junior dramatic student who is 
president of Delta Tau Delta and 
is active in WQED television; sec
retary, Carl Detwiler, a junior 
architect and controller of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon; and treasurer, Joe 
Redding, an electrical engineering 
junior and president of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon.
Dick Major, a mathematics 
junior who is president of Alpha 
Tau Omega, was elected public 
and interfraternity relations co
ordinator. Redding, Major, and 
Bob Lindsay, president of Delta 
Upsilon, and a junior physicist 
were elected justices of the court 
of justice.
The new president anticipates 
no immediate changes in CFP or
ganization.
YMCA Ends Successful Season
? The Carnegie Tech YMCA 
brought its activities for this year 
to an end with a very successful 
j banquet last Tuesday evening at 
the Union. Many student and fac
ulty members attended, along with 
! several leaders the
mmm ' ' Pittsburgh YMCA. The main
sPeaker was Rev. Luther Harsh^ /  - jllipilllll J barger, Chaplain of Pennsylvania
liililm f lit ' A. state University, who spoke on thellllllill y. 1 x ^Ifil object, Religion in the UniverBKl? ' ftiBi 'SH sity| -flipl ,''p|y;ilyi At this banquet those who are 
...Hlillijiilfllflly - W \ retiring from active positions in
\i the Y were recognized for outS, Xx I standing service. They are Wayne^X" 111 jllllll 1 Smith, a senior civil engineer
Who served as first vice president 
W' * ||i ' ,lie Student Cabinet this year
^ v tN Jr | md three faculty numbers wn.>
L* re ret:rnC..:n:ni!U'cIP^IL ' j ^ f Manage:r,t nt I\ .. Dav.d See.
VOL.4 v" ' JSEil Prof. Emerson Pugh, and Prof.
ii vijo T rs.ii' John M. Daniels.
 . .r  f Officers Following this, the newly chos-Left to rigt: Tom Harrison, first vice president; Clarence Schmidt, en leaders for next J wgre
president; Bob Marik, secretary; Chris Cook, second vice president; formally installed. The'officers of 
Don Tellalian, treasurer. | [Continued on page fij

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 17, 1955
Navy Awards $10,000 Grant 
To CIT Psychology School
Navy officer candidates will soon be running through a new kind 
maze developed by Tech psychologists. A grant of $10,000 from 
the Office of Naval Research has just been awarded to the Depart
ment of Psychology and Education for research on the evaluation 
and screening of these prospective^ 
officers. The project will be under 
the direction of Professor E. P.
Hollander, and will begin with 
data collection this summer at the 
Navys Officer Candidate School 
in Newport, Rhode Island.
According to Dr. Hollander, the 
aim of the project will be to 
determine the extent to which 
and the means by which  socalled peer ratings may be used 
effectively to weed out trainees 
with low officer potential. He 
went on to explain, Peer ratings 
are ratings which members of a 
training group assign to each 
other. Scores are then derived 
which indicates a mans relative 
standing on leadership, or some 
such related characteristic, within 
his group.
Because this* is a long-range 
follow-up study, Dr. Hollander 
stressed the fact that no candi
dates in the research groups will 
be dropped from training because 
of low peer ratings. The idea is to 
find out just how accurately, and 
how early in training, such rat
ings can predict successful com
pletion of OCS and later per
formance in the fleet.
No newcomer to this area of re
search or to the Navy, Dr. Hol
lander, a lieutenant in the Naval 
Reserve, was back on duty as a 
psychologist during the Korean 
War. He played an active part in 
introducing peer ratings among 
cadets in Naval Air Training at 
Pensacola, Florida. From this ex
perience, he has worked out and 
published material on new ap
proaches which may make this 
technique still more effective. He 
concludes, This project will pro
vide us with the first opportunity 
to do an exhaustive and syste
matic study of this technique and 
its refinements. If we should come 
up with a valid peer rating, this 
could result in a direct saving to 
the Navy of money, time, and 
human effort.
Panel Reviews 
Busy Year May 8 
At Annual Banquet
Sunday, May 8, the Panel of 
Americans held their annual ban
quet and business meeting at the 
Carnegie Union. The panel re
viewed a busy year with many 
discussion meetings, innumerable 
panels around Pittsburgh, and a 
$500 award for outstanding com
munity work The panel was 
treated to a lunch at the Levinson 
Steel Corporation May 5, after 
receiving the Emmanuel Levinson 
Award at the National Conference 
of Christians and Jews last month.
The panel was founded at Tech 
in 1951 to prove a point  that 
Americans of all races, creeds, 
and national origins can work to
gether. Since then Pitt has begun 
a panel, and the idea shows signs 
of growing further. The Panel 
seeks to combat prejudices by ap
pearing before church groups, 
clubs, and school assemblies where 
five members speak and answer 
questions from the floor. This 
year the panel concentrated on 
the McKees Rocks area in an all 
out effort to break down preju
dices.
Ail Welcome at Discussions
The monthly discussion meet
ings, where some well known per
son talks to the group on prob
lems they are likely to encounter 
and questions that may come up 
before the panel, are open to all 
interested students and faculty 
members.
The new board members elected 
for next year are: Bill Shea, man
ager; John Senko, treasurer; Rudy 
Ligtvoet, Flo Inghram, Herb 
Buchwald, and Jim Nixon. The 
faculty adviser is Mrs. Irma 
Meyerson, sociology teacher in 
Margaret Morrison.
This new AIR-FLITE will
last longer than any other
high-compression ball ever made!
No other high-compression ball can resist scuffing like 
the new DURA-THIN* covered AIR-FLITE. This ex
clusive Spalding cover adheres to the ball with a new 
strength to defy cutting up . . . even on high-iron and 
explosion shots.
Its a more compact ball, too ... offers you longer 
play and real economy.
Play your next round-with this great new Spalding 
AIR-FLITE. You can expect AND GET new uniformity 
in distance and accuracy . . . better shot control .... 
better golf.
Trade-markCARNEGIS
sets the pace 
in sports
New Auditorium 
In Porter Hall 
Recently Opened
Room 104 in Porter Hall, Techs 
original auditorium, held the en
tire student body when the build
ing was erected in 1908. There 
was only one entrance at the rear, 
from which the floor sloped 
steeply to the lecturers platform. 
The single aisle was in the center 
of the room. Brick walls and a 
high ceiling made^for dim lighting 
and poor acoustics. Students sat 
uncomfortably in rigid wooden 
chairs with tablet arms.
Remodeling, planned and car
ried out by people at Tech, was 
begun in the summer of 1954. 
Exits were provided at the front 
of the room, which has been re
numbered 100. The slope of the 
floor was decreased, and the lone 
center aisle was supplanted by 
two sides aisles. The hard wooden 
seats were replaced by 246 cush
ioned metal seats with folding 
tablet arms. Walls were covered 
with a plastic material simulating 
wood grain. Antiquated bulbs 
were replaced by fluorescent lights 
whose intensity may be varied 
according to the use of the room.
The rostrum has been refurn
ished in blond wood. Behind the 
smart new paneling of the plat
form is concealed a blackboard. 
By pressing a button the speaker 
can reveal the blackboard, lower 
a movie screen, activate the 
amplifying system hidden in the 
new ceiling, or signal the projec
tion room.
Drama Given 
Grant By RCA
The Radio Corporation of 
America has recently granted a 
graduate fellowship in dramatic 
arts to Techs College of Fine Arts 
for the academic year 1955-56. 
The grant, amounting to $3,500 
per year, will be known as the 
RA-NBC fellowship, and it is 
hoped that it may be continued 
from year to year.
Pre-doctoral graduate students 
in the department of drama who 
have demonstrated marked abil
ity will be eligible for the fellow
ship. Selection of the final candi
date will be made by the drama 
department, the final approval 
resting with the RCA Education 
Committee. Of the $3,500 total, 
$2,100 is a grant to the student, 
with $650 in addition to be paid 
for tuition and fees; the balance, 
$750, is considered a grant to the 
department.
Also participating in the pro
gram are Yale University and 
Iowa State. The purpose of the 
fellowship is to promote interest 
in the dramatic arts, and provide 
an opoprtunity for their study.
Senior Assembly 
To Be Presented 
Tuesday, May 24
Attention, Seniors! The adminstrative of Carnegie Tech, in con
nection with Tau Beta Pi, will 
offer two talks concerning pro
fessional development on Tues
day, May 24, at 11:30 in the Little 
Theater. Dean B. R. Teare, dean 
of the college of engineering and 
science will speak on professional 
training and development. Assist
ant dean of E & S, John Graham, 
will address the seniors on the 
important, but often times little 
recognized, subject of professional 
registration for engineers.
In the past these talks have 
proved to be exceedingly worth
while in orienting graduating 
engineers and scientists to the 
roles which they will play once 
out of college and to their future. 
They help to answer the questions 
in each seniors mind: What am 
I getting into, and how can I best 
prepare myself for my journey 
into professional stature? All 
seniors are urged to attend.
On CampuswithMaxShuJman
(Author of Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)
SUMER IS ICUMEN IN
Sumer is icumen in;Lhude sing cuccu!
Thus, as every schoolboy knows, begins T. S. Eliots immortal 
Hiawatha. And no wonder The Boy Orator of the Platte (as 
T. S. Eliot is commonly called) was moved to pen such light
hearted lines! For summer (or the vernal equinox as it is 
frequently referred to) is the happiest season of the year, mild 
and balmy and contented-making.
Which brings us, of course, to Philip Morris Cigarettes. They, 
too, are mild and balmy and contented-making. But that is not 
all. They are also genial, placid, and amiable. But that is still not 
all. They are, moreover, smooth, pacific, and lenient. But hold! 
There is more. They are, in addition, tranquillizing, clement, and 
dulcet.
Indeed the list could go on and on, until every adjective is 
exhausted that would describe the mildness of Philip Morris, 
the subtlety of their blending, the delicacy of their flavor. What 
more perfect companion could be found to a summers day? 
What more apt complement to a summers night?
If you have been pleased with Philip Morris through the win
ter and springas who has not who has a taste bud left in his 
head?you will find your pleasure compounded, your enjoyment 
trebled, when you smoke Philip Morris in the warm and joyous 
months before you.
My own plans for the summer (except that I will smoke Philip 
Morris through all my waking hours) are still vague. I have been 
invited to attend a writers conference, but I dont think Ill ac
cept. Ive been attending writers conferences for years, and I 
always have a perfectly rotten time. The trouble is that Alexan
dre Dumas and Harriet Beecher Stowe are always there. Not 
that I have anything against these two swell kids; its just that it 
breaks my heart to see them. Theyre so in loveso terribly de
voted and so hopelessly! Dumas will never divorce Jane Eyre 
while she is with Peary at the North Pole, and Miss Stowe has 
long since despaired of getting her release from the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. So hand in hand, brave and forlorn, they go from writers 
conference to writers conference while Dumas works on his mon
umental Stover at Yale. 
No, thank you, Ill do without writers conferences this summer. 
I think instead Ill try to improve my fishing. As Izaak Walton 
once said, No man is born an artist or an angler. I often turn 
to the works of Walton (or The Fordham Flash as he is fa
miliarly called) when I am searching for a choice aphorism. In 
fact, I told him so when we met some years ago at a writers 
conference. Walton was accompanied, as always, by Henrik 
Ibsen (or The Pearl of the Pacific as he is known as). They  
Ibsen (The Pearl of the Pacific) and Walton (The Fordham 
Flash)were collaborating on Mister Roberts at the time, but 
they fell to quarreling and abandoned the project and the world, 
as a consequence, was deprived of a truly robust and entertain
ing comedy.
It is not uncommon, I must say, for writers to fall into dispute. 
They are, after all, a sensitive and high-strung lot. Ill never 
forget what William Makepeace Thackeray (or The Body as he 
was universally called) once said to me. You show me a good 
writer, said Thackeray, and Ill steal his wife.
Well, as I was saying, I think Ill give writers conferences a 
miss this summer, and I recommend that you do the same. Why 
dont you just take it easy ? Swim and fish and sail and smoke and 
read and sleep and tan your lithe young limbs. I want the best 
for you becauseif I may get a little misty in this, my final 
column of the yearI think you should know that its been real 
kicks for me, delivering this nonsense to you each week.
And in conclusion let me state what Jane Austen (or Old 
54-40 or fight as she is called the world over) once said to 
me. Nothing is so precious as friendship, she said, and the 
richest man in the world is the one with the most money.
Max Shulman. 19S5
Our On Campus campaign has departed in many respects from 
conventional advertising methods. We'd like to have your opinions 
on this type campaign  and on the product, too, if you see fit  as m 
means of guiding us in planning our future college advertising efforts. 
How about dropping us a note? Thanks  Bill Watts, Duke 50, 
Mgr. Philip Morris College Dept., 100 Park Avenue, New York, JV. Y.
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Day Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
| ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES |
CAMPUSCLEANERS

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 17, 1955CARNEGIE TARTAN Page 3
Rachel Katzin Chosen 
Student Fashion Editor
Coming of age career-wise Rachel Katzin, junior in Techs paint
ing and design department, will start prepping for a career in the 
field of design when she steps into the offices of Mademoiselle maga
zine in New York City on May 31 as one of 20 guest editors for 1955.
Each year Mademoiselle, se-*
lects twenty college women to 
work behind the scenes in the 
publishing and editing of the 
August and September issues of 
the magazine.
S e 1 e ction si 
made from 
among 4,025 
girls who enter
ed Made moiselles a n nual 
college board 
contest involved 
a n assignment 
to criticize the 
1954 August is
sue. From the 
4,025 entrants,
700 women were 
chosen to serve on the Mile Col
lege Board which helps the edi
tors of the magazine to beat a di
rect path to the heart and mind 
of the college student.
Much Work Involved
Rachel and the other 699 
members were sent regular forms 
involving investigation and opin
ions as to the trends in fashion, 
the arts, classroom studies, and. 
extracurricular activities on the 
campuses. Rachels three most 
important assignments involved 
drawing a set of six cartoons of 
Tech girls in different depart
ments as well as a two-page 
layout of fashions popular in the 
dorm and three illustrations of
Winners were announced for 
each assignment. For her set of 
cartoons Rachel was named runner-upquite an accomplishment 
for one of 700!
Besides being judged on the 
quality of her assignments, Ra
chel was selected on the basis of 
her scholastic and extra-curricu
lar record.
Busy in Activities 
Rachel is former vice-president 
of Alpha Epsilon Phi, vice-presi
dent of the Hillel Foundation, and 
she has worked with Scotch n 
Soda. In addition to being the 
tactician for the AEPhi Sarah 
campaign during Carnival, Rachel 
finds time to teach arts and crafts 
at the YM&YWHA. She says she 
is delightful and grateful for the 
wonderful opportunity to actually 
work in her field in New York.
As a Mademoiselle Guest Edi
tor, Rachel will spend one month 
in New York City as a salaried 
career girl and will be assigned 
to the magazine position which 
best fits her interests and train
ing. In addition to her duties as 
an artist, writer, and editor and 
in between meeting deadlines, 
Rachel will sight-see New York, 
spend an evening of dinner and 
dancing, attend theatre parties 
in other words, she wont spend 
the entii'e month behind a desk
John Herr Named 
To All American 
Small Bore Team
After 27 years in which big 
time sports have been de-emphasized, Tech has produced an* All 
American.
John C. Herr, a junior in civil 
engineering, has been named on 
the first team of the collegiate 
All American Rifle Team for 
1955. Selection was made by the 
National Rifle Association after 
John lead the Greater Pitts
burgh Rifle League with a high 
individual average of 287 for 300 
in the 1954-55 season.
Selection on the All Ameri
can team places John among the 
top ten collegiate" small bore 
rifle marksmen in the country. 
Basis for selection were scores 
he compiled in all shoulder to 
shoulder matches, his sectional 
record, his contribution to the 
sport as a whole and his scholas
tic standing and leadership in 
school activities.
Other Successes 
Earlier this year, John placed 
second highest for the nation
wide ROTC match sponsored by
Kiltie Band
Kiltie Band members are 
requested to turn in all uni
forms and instruments imme
diately.
the Society of American Mili
tary Engineers. He also shot sec
ond highest score in the National 
Rifle Association Intercollegiate 
Sectional Match at Annapolis and 
twice tied the Greater Pittsburgh 
League all-time record of 295 out 
of 300.
At Carnegie Tech, he is presi
dent of the Rifle Club, and of the 
student chapter, Society of Amer
ican Military Engineers. He is also 
active in the Beta Theta Pi fra
ternity, and is a member of the 
Spring Carnival Committee.
Monteitli Presents 
Plaque; Eta Kappa 
Nu Initiates Five
Mr. Alexander C. Monteith, 
Westinghouse vice-p resident, 
marked the completion of the fa
mous $150,000 Westinghouse Elec
trical Engineering Laboratory at 
Tech Thursday night with the 
presentation of a bronze plaque.
Ceremonies took place at a ban
quet inthe Carnegie Union where 
Mr. Montieth was initiated into 
Eta Kappa Nu, electrical engineer
ing honorary society. Vice-presi
dent in charge of engineering and
chairman of the Westinghouse Ed
ucational Foundation, Mr. Mon
tieth is also national president of 
the American Institute of Electri
cal Engineers. He has been the 
spearhead in the drive to bring the 
American engineering societies 
headquarters to Pittsburgh.
Mr. Montieth spoke about pro
fessional development and then to 
punctuate his meaning, he pre
sented the plaque commemorating 
completion of the only power sta
bility laboratory of its kind in the 
United States, used primarily for 
the purpose of developing profes
sional electrical engineers.
Four Carnegie Tech electrical 
engineering students were also 
initiated into Eta Kappa Nu in the 
evenings ceremonies. They are: 
Philip Gresh, Robert Shields, Paul 
D. Carmichael, and Adrian Billetdeaux.
The person who picked up the 
raincoat in the SIA library on Friday between 12 and 1 p.m. 
may return the coat to the library and exchange for his own. The keys in the pocket are im
portant.
stories published in Mademoiselle, or a typewriter!
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
BEEN THINKING OF BUYING A CAR?
Then see Wally Donoghue before you buy any type of 
car, new or used. He will arrange the best deal you 
can get.
GUARANTEEDBOX 337 CIT MUseum 3-0242
A Campus-to-Career Case History
1 DARK SUIT + 1 NEW ARROW S0FT0NE SHIRT 
* 1 WELL-DRESSED COLLEGE MAN
With dark suitings the big campus preference, Arrow introduces 
ite new Softone shirts with harmonizing tiessoft muted colors 
to blend naturally, easily, with darker fabrics. They give you the 
look of a man who wears his clothes well.
See your campus Arrow dealer for these fine colored shuts. 
Youll find a wide range of checks, stripes and solids. Best of 
aU, Arrow Softones are priced right. You can own one (or 
several), and still have money left to eat on. Theyre but 
$5.00 the shirt.
AJiJiOW
SHIRTS & TIES
CASUAL WEAR 
UNDERWEAR 
HANDKERCHIEFS
Bill has l>een in his present job about a year, and it* 
looking forward to new responsibilities as his expe
rience increases ... as are the many young college 
men who have chosen telephone careers. If you*d be 
interested in a similar opportunity v*ith a Bell tele
phone company ... or with Bell Telephone Lal>oralories, Western Electric or Sandia Corporation . . . see 
your Placement Officer for full details.
a
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
This is what I did yesterday
1 like a job that keeps me jumping, 
says Bill Jermain, C.E. from Marquette, 
52. And my first management assign
ment with Wisconsin Telephone Com
pany does just that. Im Service 
Foreman at Sheboygan, with nine install
ers, and that means variety of responsi
bility. But judge for yourself. Heres 
a quick run-down of what I did yester
day, on a typical day
8:10Checked days work schedule. 
One of my new men was putting in a 
buried service wire, and I went over the 
job specs with him to be sure he had 
things straight.
8:30Answered mail while my clerk 
checked time sheets from previous day.
9:30Out to supervise installation of 
the first aluminum Outdoor Telephone 
Booth in my exchange. Reviewed the 
assembly instructions with the installers, 
then arranged for special tools and bolts 
to be delivered to the job.
11:30Drove across town. Made a 
complete quality inspection on a tele
phone we installed last week. Everything 
checked O.K.
12:00-Lunch.
1:00Picked up film for next days 
safety meeting. Watched the film, made* 
notes for discussion.
2:00Met with moving company 
manager to estimate cost of telephone 
cable lifting for a house moving job. 
Drove the route he had planned and 
worked out schedule for construction 
crews.
3:30Returned to aluminum booth in
stallation. Went over wiring specs with 
the electrician.
4:00Stopped at Central Office to 
pick up next days orders. Met installers 
at garage as they cheeked in and assigned 
next days work.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 17, 1955
EditorialDorm Filth
Though not of such earthshaking importance as a stu
dent union and the activities program (upon neither of which 
much progress can be reported) this problem of reason
ably clean and attractive living conditions is nevertheless 
one which has been neglected too long.
Not being too well acquainted with the interior of Morewood Gardens, at least the upper part, and not wishing to 
get involved at present in a diatribe on poor food, we will 
confine our comments to the mens dorms, which offer bound
less opportunities for criticism.
As a general rule, one finds the halls cluttered with 
empty boxes and bottles, candy wrappers, scraps of paper, 
rug sweepings, and other assorted trash. The washrooms in 
some of the dorms are a health inspectors nightmare and 
the rooms everywhere could stand cleaning by the occu
pants. And a great sore spot is the so called lounge rooms. 
Vandalism is widely prevalent and the equipment is seldom 
well cared for. Scobell lounge is nothing but a shattered 
mess of crumbled furniture enveloped by dust and cockroach
es.
Another gripe is the surroundings. Dormer has a beauti
fully landscaped setting, but the rest of the dorms leave 
something to be desired. The trash scattered through the 
unkept lawns, amidst hedges, and on the sidewalks is rarely 
cleaned up, and what incentive is there to anyone to re
strain from adding to the mess?
That seems to be the core of the whole problem. No one 
cares about throwing his trash where others already have 
and nobody has cleaned it up. The residents have no pride 
in their dorms and the somewhat sporadic janitorial and 
maid service is either understaffed or inefficient or both.
In order to remedy this abominable situation, a good 
place to start is with the staff. With better trained conscien
tious and efficient help, a great deal can be accomplished. 
The washrooms and halls can be cleaned more often than 
once a week, the grounds can be kept neat, and the long 
overdue screens can be put on.
However, the cooperation of the inhabitants is neces
sary. If everyone would leave the washrooms, lounges, 
halls, and grounds in the same condition that he found them, 
or as he would like to see them, and exercise common cour
tesy in the matter of sweeping rugs in the halls, etc., then 
Techs mens dorms would not be a sore spot of the campus.
It is this matter of pride in ones surroundings that must 
be improved upon, and if the incentive is provided by a 
harder working staff, the men should do their part by co
operating to make the place more sanitary, more liveable, 
and more beautiful. Therefore we would like to see the 
administration or some organization, such as Dorm Council 
or Claymore Clan, which is more closely connected with the 
problem than the Tartan do something about this before 
next fall.
tions. On Thursday May 19 at 4:30 p.m. in the 
Morewood Gardens Dorm Council Room there will 
be a meeting of old and new Cwens and Scimitars 
as well as representatives of the various organiza
tions on campus. We would appreciate your send
ing representatives from your organization to dis
cuss this issue of school spirit. If possible, we 
would like to know whether to expect your repre
sentative on Thursday.
At a meeting of Cwens and Scimitars, the fol
lowing suggestions were made:
1. Have a composite of the freshman pictures 
posted on campus so that the students may have 
an opportunity to recognize the freshmen.
2. Freshmen must wear their dinks for the 
shorter period of two weeks.
3. At the close of the two weeks there will be 
the annual Frosh Weekend during which there 
will be a revised version of the traditions test 
administered, the mens sophomore and frosh push
ball competition will be held, and a Frosh Hop will 
be given at which those who have passed their test 
may throw off their dinks.
4. Enforcement of dink-wearing extended to 
all upperclassmen.
5. A re-test will be given to those who do not 
pass the traditions-exam.
6. Penalties: Rather than have the freshmen 
continue to wear their dinks if they fail to pass 
the exam or fail to wear their dinks during the 
two-week period the following penalty suggestions 
were made:
Have frosh carry books of the upperclassmen.
If there are several freshmen in a group, have 
them sing one or more Tech songs.
Have more consistent delinquents clean senior 
fence of the accumulated paint jobs.
Those are the suggestions which have been of
fered so far. If you and your representative will 
consider them, we shall welcome any criticisms 
and additions that you would like to make. Be
cause Tech organizations have the greatest ten
dency toward school spirit and we are asking your 
particular support.
Everybody talks about school spirit but nobody 
does anything about it. We want to do something 
about it and are looking forward to your coopera
tion.
Sincerely yours,
Stephanie Mackay, Evelyn Alessio. 
Cwens.
Open Letter To Students
Freshman Regulations
Dear Fellow Students:
Letters
Motorcycles, Etc.
Editor, the Tartan:
Please convey my sincere congratulations to Mr. 
Joseph A. Szewc for his adept and tasteful reply 
to the letter of Mr. Jim Hasper. I was greatly 
pleased and encouraged by the tone of both Mr. 
Szewcs answer and his original comments with 
regard to the splendid but much neglected custom 
of hanging motorcycles in trees.
know, banks have too much money, and persons 
who jingle change (which directly or indirectly 
comes from banks) are most disturbing when one 
is sleeping. That certain fellow citizens, through 
no compulsion of the law, and at the risk of burns, 
grease spots, -and toothache, should take it upon 
themselves to remove such money may be con
sidered extremely heartening.
While deeds such as that noted above are often 
performed by persons not in college, the university 
must be developed as a breeding place for these 
customs. Thus, in view of the Administrations 
puritanical view toward larceny, the hanging of 
a Carnegie Tech motorcycle in a Carnegie Tech 
tree is a particularly significant occurrence.
Of course, there are some unenlightened indi
viduals, such as Mr. Hasper, who have delusions 
about something called the sanctity of personal 
property, etc. But they, we must hope, are in the 
minority. Others, the more pessimistic among us, 
will point out that certain public spirited figures 
have for many centuries devoted much of their 
time to appropriating articles which are not theirs, 
and that recent developments, such as the one I 
have mentioned, are not unusual.
But the important thing is that, according to 
recent statistics, %uch practices are enjoying a re
birth of popularity, particularly in many of those 
cities which have become centers of other types of 
cultural and social advance.
If present promising trends continue, and I 
trust that Mr. Szewcs able pen will seek to be of 
service, we will perhaps someday be able to say 
that none of our possessions belong to us, and that 
all of our property is in the hands of someone else. 
Let us all work diligently toward this end.
Respectfully yours,
A Faithful Reader.
Egg Toss Error
Editor, the Tartan:
The description that the Tartan published on 
May 10, 1955 of the egg tossing contest during 
Spring Carnival included an error which should 
be corrected. By mistake Professors Gilmer and 
Daily were named as the victors, whereas in truth 
Professors Gilmer and Gregg were the two who 
won the trophy and in the process shattered last 
years record for distance.
Until the Tartan statement appeared, Pro
fessors Gilmer and Gregg were in the highest of 
spirits. They had won their conflict with oblivion 
in defeating all comers. Eagerly they awaited the 
publication of the Tartan which they hoped, would 
acknowledge their prowess. When Professor Gil
mer read the account, he roared, Someone should 
write a letter to' the Tartan to correct this grave 
miscarriage of the truth! When Professor Gregg 
saw that another had received the credit coming 
to him, he adjusted to the situation and sadly 
murmured, Life is like that.
Lest serious psychological damages be done, 
especially to Professor Gregg, I urge that the Tartan 
correct its grievous blunder to soothe the outraged 
feelings of Professor Gilmer and to restore Pro
fessor Gregg to his rightful place in the CIT sun.
Sincerely yours,
Norman H. Dawes 
Department of History
Editors Note: Sincerest apologies to Professor 
Gregg for our purely unintentional grave omission. 
We regret that space limitations prevent our pub
lishing of a letter similar to the above one, which 
was submitted by an equally indignant professor, 
Dr. Hollander of psychology. He recommended that 
our wayward correspondent be'roundly pummeled 
with an egg-beater. Said correspondent has been 
severly chastised.
Vets Club Saluted
Editor, The Tartan:
The Fifth Annual Carnegie Tartan Debate 
Tournament was held on this campus last Satur
day, April 23. During the day, Techs Debate Club 
was host to debate teams from fifteen schools from 
Ohio, New York, Maryland, West Virginia, and 
Pennsylvania. It was, in the opinion of many, the 
most successful Tartan Tournament thus far.
One of the main reasons for the great success 
of Saturdays tournament was the outstanding 
service provided by the newly-organized Tech Vets 
Club. The group supplied us with twenty of its 
members who acted as chairmen and timekeepers 
throughout the day. It was their job to see that 
each debate ran smoothly and that judges ballots 
were delivered promptly. The fact that the tourna
ment ran almost exactly on schedulea real rarity 
in debate circles!was largely the result of the 
excellent performance of these chairmen.
I should like, therefore, to take this opportunity 
to salute the very fine job of the Vets Club and 
those of its members who aided us on the 23rd. 
I know of no other campus organization so ready 
to help and so efficient in carrying out an assign
ment. The Tech debaters hope that this partici
pation by Vets Club volunteers will become a reg
ular feature of the Tartan Tournament.
Thanks again to Joe Brashear and to his entire 
organization. I feel sure that the Vets Clubif 
Saturdays performance is any indicationwill 
prove to be a most valuable addition to Carnegies 
program of extra-curricular activities.
Vincent C. Brann 
Director of Debate 
Department of English.
No Support
Editor, the Tartan:
Having a natural interest in athletics, I stopped 
to watch a ball-game played by students of Tech. 
I was advised that there was a track meet around 
the corner in the bowl, the opponent being W. & J. 
Since W. & J. is a name college, I expected to see 
a crowd and the usual enthusiasm.
There was a track meet and the boys were run
ning their hearts out for dear old Tech, but to 
encourage them there were exactly three girls and 
about ten other spectatorsI am not even sure 
they were students.
Why anyone would even go out for the team to 
| represent the school is hard to understand, when 
nobody is interested enough to encourage them. 
There should be a few students, fraternity brothers, 
even faculty members. I am neither an alumnus or a 
student; but I am an alumnus of another school. 
I feel sorry for the poor team, struggling so hard, 
with so little support.
Sleffen Haysten.
The Cwens and Scimitars are planning a more vigorous campaign 
for freshman regulations and school spirit in 1955-56. In order to 
get the best results we are asking the support and cooperation of all 
Tech organizationshonorary, service, and social.
In past years it has always been the custom for the sophomores 
to enforce freshman regulations but next year we would like all 
three classes to participate in the hope of creating greater school 
spirit. Unfortunately in the past it has been the policy of the upper
classmen to discourage rather than to encourage the school spirit that 
can and should exist on our campus.
Contrary to public opinion the administration does not oppose 
enforcement of freshman regulations; rather it is merely unaware of 
the exact policies of the sophomore honoraries. Upon investigation 
we found that they are more than willing to support us as they 
realize that school spirit is essential on Techs campus.
We would like your suggestions and criticisms of freshman tradiOFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9430, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. v
Editor-in-Cluef ................................................................................................... Robert Russell
Business Manager ................................... .......... ................ Vic Shiry
New Editor ........................................................................................................................ Marjo King
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................... Tom Wright
Copy Editor ............................................................... .......................................... Richard Fox
Features Editor ............................................................................................... Stephanie Mackay
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions *1.10 
per year.
In the light of this and similar magnificent 
examples set by college students, I should like to 
call Mr. Szewcs attention to other encouraging 
developments in this type of activity. Only re
cently a large quantity of money was removed 
from a New York bank (whether it was subse
quently hung in a tree, I cannot say). As we all

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 17, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPagre S
Westminster Ends Techs 
Enviable Track Record
Last week at New Wilmington the Tech track teams string of 32 straight dual meet 
victories was broken in a difficult meet with Westminster. A score of 77-54 resulted from 
superior depth on the opposing squad in both fiield and track events.
The Titans also won the Tri-State by picking up a 56V2 points score, but thfe thinclads 
of Tech gave them a real run*---------------------------'-------1------------------------------------isss.p,ers,"!rBen,s; Room And*
ace put on a real impressive Juniata Beaten Rates Increasi
one man show by winning Jy Tech Tennis Dr ^oug^as Miner,
three events, while setting * of the Dlvision of Studii j^ . sonnel and Welfare, artwo new records and anchoring Our netnen from Carnegie Tech recentiy that the
down Techs winning mile relay returned from the north last night rates at Mor-wood Gard
squad. sporting a 4-2 record for the curbe increased $25 a semes
John started off by running a ren season. After losing a close mencing with the fall ser:49-9 quarter mile which broke the meet to Penn state on Fridav thp 1955.
old record of :51 seconds. He then 
knocked six tenths of a second off 
the half mile when he broke the 
tape at 1:59.9. After this he pro
ceeded to win the 220 low hurdles 
and then made up a deficit of 25 
yards to put the mile relay team 
out in front. *
The team scoring went: West
minster 56V2, Slippery Rock 48 V2,
Carnegie Tech 35i/2, Geneva 25,
Grove City 20 y2, Edinboro 17, Al
legheny 15, Washington and Jef
ferson 7.
This was the closing event for 
the track team which we feel 
turned in a very fine record for 
the year. Although the winning 
streak was broken last week, the 
Thinclads will get one started 
again next year.
Statistics
TRACK
Mil* Run1-Weaver, Geneva; 2-G.
Jackson, Geneva; 3-Sheraw, Westminster;
4-Dickinson, Slippery Rock; 5-Galbo, Al
legheny. Time4:32.7.
440-Yard Dash1-Muller, Carnegie, 2- 
Janson, Grove City; 3-A. Jackson, West
minster; 4-Moss, Westminster; 5-Heinecke,
Carnegie. Time49.9. (meet record).
100- Yard Dash  1-Baxter, Slippery 
Rock; 2-Walker, Westminster; 3-Barnes,
Westminster; 4-Cole, Edinoboro; 5-Fennell, Slippery Rock. Time:10.
120-Yard High Hurdles1-Stofan, Car
negie; 2-Donodeo, Allegheny; 3-Debolt,
Westminster; 4-Blackbum, Wash.-Jeff.; 5- 
Heinichek, Geneva. Time:16.
Half-Mile Run1-Muller, Carnegie; . 2- 
Tolbert, Westminster; 3-G. Jackson, Ge
neva; 4-Weaver, Geneva; 5-Austin, Slip
pery Rock. Time1:49.6 (meet record).
220-Yard Dash  1-Baxter, Slippery 
Rock; 2-Bames, Westminster; 3-Cole, Ed
inboro; 4-Smith, Carnegie; 5-Fennell,
Slippery Rock. Time:21.5 (meet record).
Two-Mile Run1-Stewart, Westminster;
2-Farson, Wash.-Jeff.; 3-Galbo, Alleghe
ny; 4-Spear, Geneva; 5-Sheraw, West
minster. Time10:13.8.220-Yard Low Hurdles1-Pluller, Car
negie; 2-Donodeo, Allegheny; 3-Debolt,
Westminster; 4-Muno, Slippery Rock; 5- 
Blackbum, Wash.-Jeff. Time:25.
Mile Relay1-Carnegie Tech (Jones,
Heinecke, Gillies, Muller); 2-Edinboro;
3-Westminster; 4-Slippery Rock; 5-Grove 
City. Time3:33.1.FIELD EVENTS 
Discus1-W. Jackson, Westminster, 2- 
Pastrick, Grove City; 3-George, Slippery 
Rockf 4-Wood, Westminster; 5-Blose,
Slippery Rock. Distance138' 4", Cmeet 
record).Javelin1-Pastrick, Grove City; 2- 
Lazor, Geneva; 3-Newhard, Edinboro; 4- 
Carman, Allegheny; 5-Frick, Carnegie 
Tech. Distance 156' 2Shot Put1-Ruland, Edinboro; 2-Healdig, Slippery Rock; 3-Jones, Carnegie; 4- 
McFarland, Geneva; 5-Wall Slippery 
Rock. Distance42' 10".High Jump1-Palumbo, Slippery Rock;
2-tie between Boring, Slippery Rock and 
Frank, Carnegie; 5-tie between Kovalyak,
Grove Cit and Townes, Westminster.
Height6'Pole Vault1-Spak, Slippery Rock; 2- 
Koehler, Grove City; 3-tie among Mc
Cracken, Geneva; Seidner, Westminster;
Kovalyak, Grove City. Height12' 1".Broad Jump1-Walker, Westminster; 2- 
Palumbo, Slippery Rock; 3-Boring, Slip
pery Rock; 4-Davis, Westminster; 5-Donodeo, Allegheny. Distance23' 1%",
(meet record).Freshman Medly Relay  1-Slippery 
Rock; 2-Allegheny, 3-Geneva; 4-Westminster; 5-Grove City. Time3:50.3. ______.... .........(Does not count in meet standings). BOY WHO HAD FIVE BALLOONS
_________________________________ Martha L. Mednick
.  ~*XTT* Northuvestern UniversityAlO Wins
Soccer Crown I A
Wednesday of this past week I
saw the championship soccer game I
finally being played off, between I
th Orientals and the ATOs. The I
Taus copped the game in a sudI
den death over time by a score I
The fine offensive playing of the 
Orientals kept the ATOs in their BetaesLeu ec cku i. h'e sPU chLRc aEEsLuAown back yard for the first quareRRSUe!hLuA fUS teudLuA Robert Grimes
ter, but after Koko Lay put one Eugene B. Doggett West Virginia University
through the goal on an indirect Yale University
kick in the second quarter the
Up and over in the high jump which was part of the field events 
in the Tri-State meet.
Patronize Our Advertisers
We wish to interview all Mechanical Graduates 
who have an interest in developing Special Ap
titudes for careers in Nuclear Energy Installa
tions. Write for interview.
BAKER, SMITH & CO.. Inc
Chrysler Building, 405 Lexington Ave., N. Y. 17, N. Y. 
Engineers  Fabricators  Contractors for 98 Years
LUCKY DAY! MORE LUCKY DR00DIES!
WHATS THIS? For solution see bottom paragraph.
f LUCKY 
ISTRIKE,
Lucky Droodles* are pour
ing in! Where are yours? 
We pay $25 for all we use, 
and for many we dont use. 
So, send every original 
Droodle in your noodle, 
with its descriptive title, to: 
Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 
67, New York 46, N. Y.
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 
by Roger Pfice
PERIOD FURNITUR!
Travis Williams Hendrix College
YOU GET MORE deep-down smoking enjoyment from Luckies 
than any other brand. The reason, plain and simple, is that 
Luckies taste better. They taste better, first of all, because 
Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then that tobacco is 
toasted to taste better. Its Toastedthe famous Lucky 
Strike processtones up Luckies light, good-tasting tobacco 
to make it* taste even better . . . cleaner, fresher, smoother. 
Youll enjoy the Droodle above, too; its titled: Three on a 
matchLuckies, of course. Whenever smokers put their 
heads together, they agree you cant match a Lucky for flavor. 
Come light-up time, enjoy a better-tasting Lucky yourself!
ATOs started a little offense of 
their own. Daniels tied the game 
up in opening minutes of the third 
only have to have Koko put the 
Orientals in the lead with a 
smasher from far out.
Bettea taste Luckies...LUCKIES TASTE BETTER ..CCeanea, Pfteske/i, ^viootWi
A.T. Co. PRODUCT OFAMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 17, 1955
railroad ticket
V reservations.)
I ^*ort * L
/ rcm f' d'gi
1 **<%> &rounH * er Can  . nd gga9e.
?" o/'f C0cb fresSQVe 25%oe trave>' FARES* o e bV Ui/o* nD^osf ,.f yuiar 
*"o f' 8ier 25G*W> KoZfr!'
u eoc/i . mef"ne,n r ^ore /,
s^y **% ^**5?
you '**"
Playoffs Necessary 
In Softball Contest
The intramural softball program completed the second and final 
week of play last week. There are several postponed contests to be 
played tomorrow. In the event of inclement weather, only the top 
team in each league will participate in the playoffs. This ruling is
in accordance with the intra-^------------------------------------------------------
mural board ruling of 1952 which
specifiies for outdoor sports, that, 
if bad weather prevails, only the 
top team in each league will enter 
the playoffs. However, if clear skys 
prevail, the first two teams in each 
league will be eligible for the 
playoffs.
Close Rac in Scot League 
In the Scot League Phi Kappa 
and the .Okalavs have completed 
their season tied for first place 
with 4-1 records. Obelisk A has 
a 3-1 record and, if they defeat 
DU (0-3), they will throw the 
League into a three way tie for 
first place. A playoff will probably 
determine the champion of this 
league.
Kappa Sigma A, one of the 
two undefeated teams in the 
school, is in first place in the 
Plaid League with a 3-0 record. 
They have two more games to 
play, one with the Drek AC and 
one with the Obelisk B. If they 
win these contests they will win 
the championship of this league. 
If they lose either of the games, 
they will be tied for the lead with 
the Grads (4-1), who have com
pleted their season.
Tartan League Tied Also 
Tau Delta Phi and Alpha Tau 
Omega A are tied for first place 
in the Tartan League with records 
of 4-1. Each team has one game 
remaining; ATO plays PKA (0-3) j 
and TDP plays the Jr. Chem Es 
(2-1). If each of these teams win 
their respective games the league 
will end in a two way tie for first 
place.
Undefeated Sigma Nu A with 
a 3-0 mark is the leader in the 
Kiltie League. They are followed 
by the Metals Club and Theta Xi 
who have 3-1 records and by 
ASCE who has a 2-1 record. SN 
A has to defeat both the Metals 
Club and ASCE to assure them
selves undisputed possession of 
first place. If they lose to either 
of these teams, the league could 
end in a two way deadlock.
Plaid
KS ...........................................3-0
Grads .....................................4-1
SAE .......................................3-2
Drek AC .................................2-2
Obelisk B .........................0-3
Tech Gems............................0-3
Tartan
TDP.........................................4-1
ATO A ..............................4-1
Jr. Chem. Es........................2-1
Eagles .............................3-2
SN B .............................2-4
Clyde St. AC........................1-4
PKA........................................0-3
Scot
Okalays ................................4-1
PK ........................................4-1
Obelisk A .........................3-1
BSP ........................................1-3
DTD ........................................1-3
DU ..........................................0-3
Kiltie
SN A ................................3-0
Metals Club .........................3-1
TX ...........................................3-1
ASCE .....................................2-1
ATO B ...............................1-4
BTP .........................................0-5
Golf Team In 
Good Season
Starting with an impressive 7-0 
win over Geneva on May 3 at Alcoma, the golf team has run over 
three opponents in a row at the 
Alcoma Golf Club, which is their 
home course. Last Tuesday Duquesne ran into a team of hot golf
ers from Tech and went back to 
the bluff after absorbing a 6-1 
defeat. Tom Schorr was medalist 
in both of these matches with a 
pair of 77s.
In the Meadville Invitational, at 
Meadville on Thursday, the host 
Allegheny was victorious. Tech 
was seventh with a four man 
team came in with a 321. Cipro 
and Schorr did very well, how
ever, and they turned in a 78 and 
79 respectively.
Friday, back at Alcoma, the 
linksmen bounced back to down 
Westminster without much trouble 
by the score of 'zVz-V?.. In this 
match no points were given for 
medalist which only made it six 
points total. After Schoor tied his
rtpai'CoU McWoptlftaa BottHnf ., rHtokt|k U, T%.
match, the other five men all 
scored victories with Ed Cipro 
coming in with a 79 for medalist
honors.
This week the team journeys to 
Grove City and then on Friday 
they will play Pitt at Shannopin 
Country Club to end the season.
'AGUOME PARTY
Tennis
[Continued from page 5] 
singles matches.
On Saturday afternoon the Plaid 
bounced back to beat Juniata, 6-3. 
Coach Moses boys had a little 
trouble geeting used to Juniatas 
dirt courts, since they had experi
enced nothing but concrete in the 
past. They soon overcame this 
obstacle as they took four of the 
six singles and two of the three 
doubles matches.
This week the netters complete 
the season by invading Geneva on 
May 17, and meeting Pitt on the 
Tech courts Saturday ?Tav 21.
SIMMARIES
4Tech Penn State5
Singles: Jim Miller <CT> defeated BiU 
Zieglier. 2-6. 6-1. 6-4; John Cleary 'PS) 
defeated Allan Glaser, 6-4. 6-3; Ed SeUng iPSt defeated Stephenv Rowley. 6-2, 
6-1: Charles Christiansen <PS> defeated 
Jack Rugheimer. 6-2. 6-1; Larry Dussair 
(CTi defeated Doug Zuker. 6-4. 6-4; Larj ry Adler (PS defeated Dick Naworski. i 
9-7. 6-3.
Doubles; Miller and Glaser defeated j 
Setting and Christiansen, 6-4. 6-3. Ziegler and Humphreys defeated Rugheimer and ( 
Dussair. 6-0. Rowley and Charles Schul j 
defeated Joe Eberlr and A1 Willians, 8- I 
C. 7-9. 6-2.
6Tech Juniata3 I
Singles-Miller. Tech defeated Lank
ford, 6-4. 6-3; Glaser. Tech. defeatedRafTensperger. 6-4. 6-1: Rowley. Tech,
defeated Fu.sco. 6-4, 4-6, 6-3; Gorss,
Juniata, defeated Dusair, 6-2, 6-0: Win| 
gert. Juniata, defeated Schaull 6-3, 6-1; 1 
Rugheimer, Tech, defeated Ruhl. 6-2, 6-1.
DoublesMiller and Glaser. Tech. deI 
feated Lankford and Fu*co, 6-4, 6-4; Rafj 
fensperger and Gorss. Juniata, defeated 
Rowley and Schaull. 6-4, 6-3; Dusah and j 
Naworski. Tech. defeated Wingert and I 
Ruhl, 4-0. 6-3, 8-3.
Pi Tau Sigma, national mechanJ 
ical engineering fraternity, was 
established on Techs campus in I 
1930. *
See Your Chevrolet Dealer
Punch-line to the years hottest power story -
Chevrolet "Turbo-Fire V8!
This is the engine thats writing a 
whole new chapter in the book oi 
automobile performance records. This 
is the engine that has stock car timers 
doing a double take at their stop
watches wherever experts gather to 
compare the abilities of the 1955 cars.
For example, in the recent NASCAR * 
stock car competition at Daytona 
Beach, Florida, Chevrolet literally ran 
away from every other car in its class 
and a raft of others besides. In the 
one-mile straightaway run for lowpriced cars, the first two placesand 
six of the first tenwent to Chev
rolet. And in acceleration runs from a 
standing start against all comers, 
the Motoramic Chevrolet beat all other 
low-priced carsand every high-priced 
car except one!
Whats behind this blazing perform
ance? A compact honey of a V8 that 
only the worlds leading producer of 
valve-in-head engines can build. Chev
rolets new "Turbo-Fire V8.
It puts a new kind of fun in your 
driving life. You're in charge of 169 
high-spirited horsepower  or if you're 
looking for even more excitement, the new 
Super Turbo-Fire V8 (optional at
extra cost) puts T80 h.p. under your toe!
Pick the one youd rather have fun 
with, then come in and get behind the 
wheel. Youll see why the Motoramic 
Chevrolet is showing its heels to everyane else on the road!
*national Aisociatioa for Stock Car Auto tacingt

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 17, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 1
^CMNEGlik//  f)
' \ // jr// # >/
/ * v*v^
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................ ........................... ........... Dolores Neff
Circulation Editor ........................................................................  Jim Soltis
Reporters..............Kathy Galligan, Frank Polma, John Van Holt, Jr.
Monte-Carnival Will Be Theme 
Of Years Last Social Event
On Saturday night, May 21 at 8:30 p.m., the last Evening 
School social affair of the present school year will be held in 
Thistle Hall. Bearing the jitle Monte-Carlo, this affair will have a 
gambling casino atmosphere such as was present at the previously
held Monte-Carlo and in addition*----------------------------------------------------
there will be dancing.
Matt Bertovich, who is in 
charge of the gambling games, is 
endeavoring to have several of 
the very popular dice tables in 
operation and in addition several 
other types of games. Any men 
who would care to assist Matt by 
acting as table operators may call 
him at CH. 2-1191. Points toward 
an achievement award will be 
accredited to any volunteers.
Springtime Theme
Emily Muhic, who is in charge 
of decorations, is planning decora
tions generally on a springtime 
theme. Decorations will be put up 
on Saturday afternoon at 12:00 
and volunteers will be welcomed 
with open arms. 
Ed Daly has rented a latemodel juke box with the latest 
recordings and this will be in
stalled on a free play basis.
Vince Golobic, who is in charge 
of the Black Cat, has promised 
to have an ample supply of re
freshments on hand.
Admission is $.75 and tickets 
may be secured from council mem
bers, Mr. McKelvey, or at the 
door. This affair is open to day 
students and to people not attend
ing Carnegie Tech.
Fortieth Annual 
Engineer Banquet 
Has Large Croivd
As anticipated, the Fortieth an
nual Engineers Banquet was one 
of the successful social events of 
the season. Thanks to the efforts 
of the committee. The affair took 
place on Saturday evening, May 
7 at the Gateway Plaza and was 
thoroughly enjoyed by those in 
attendance. Professor William 
Taafee of Techs School of Indus
trial Management was toastmaster.
Mr. Earl Moore, Vice President 
of U. S. Steel Corp., spoke on 
present and future opportunities 
for engineers in expanding in
dustries.
Mehelik Wins Achievement Award
Dr. John C. Warner, presented 
the coveted Achievement Award to 
Frank Mehelik for outstanding 
scholastic and extra-curricular ac
tivities. George Schussler was al
so notably honored as the recipi
ent of the Achievement Certificate.
Ralph (Santa Claus) Czernek 
presented the door prizes consist
ing of a clock, radio, electric 
shaver, Revere Copperware set, 
log-log slide rule, and various 
other gifts.
Super
llOp(kl'
Off we go, into the wild blue 
yonder . . . This is the No. 1 song 
on Frank Polmas hit parade these 
days. With the beautiful weather 
weve been having for the past 
few weeks, Frank has been spend
ing his weekends getting a birds 
eye view of the city. After a few 
more instruction hours, he will be 
ready to solo. When you receive 
your pilots license Frank, how 
about taking us for a ride?
A man shows what he is by 
what he does with what he 
has.
Emily Muhic tells us that she 
recently received a letter from 
her friend, Leonard Chun, in 
Honolulu, saying how much he 
enjoys reading our school paper. 
Emily sends him the paper each 
week. When Mr. Chun was in 
Pittsburgh last September, he vis
ited Carnegie Tech. He was amaz
ed at the vast amount of grounds 
and buildings which comprise our 
campus.
Its not what we read and 
hear, but what we accept and 
use that important.
Evening School Newman Club 
was well represented at the 
Marys Day Procession at Mount 
Mercy on May 1. A few of our 
Newmanites seen in the Proces
sion were: Mike Antonelli, Ewald 
Gondolf, Emily Muhic, Bill Groll, 
Ed Daly, Dolores Neff, Bill Bond, 
and Kathy Galligan. Following 
the recitation of the Rosary, Bish
op Dearden offered Benediction at 
the outside altar by St. Josephs 
Hall.
Knowledge is power, but like 
power, must be joined to 
something to be effective. 
John Van Holt, Jr. has just re
cently returned from attending a 
Middle Atlantic Province New
man Club Convention held in 
Hershey, Penna. Carnegie Tech, 
Pitt, Penn State, Univ. of Penna., 
and Howard University were but 
a few of the colleges and univer
sities represented at this conven
tion. There was a square dance 
held on Friday evening, an inaug
ural ball on Saturday and many 
impromptu parties throughout the
entire weekend. Tech delegates 
included: Joe Bonk, Dom Schrello, 
Joyce Teemer, Paul Sieffert, Gaile 
Demitsesca and, of course, John 
Van Holt.
Every man snould Keep a 
fair sized cemetery in which 
to bury the faults of his 
friends.
A reminder to Phi Gamma Pi 
girlsYou have until Monday, 
May 16 to get your reservations in 
for the banquet. You may send 
your reservations and money to 
Audrey Wiskow, 823 Walnut St., 
Pittsburgh 21, Pa.
Even moderation ought not 
to be practiced to excess. 
Congratulations to Kathleen 
Kennedy on being elected to the 
office of recording secretary of 
PIFSCO at their Banquet on May 
10. Other Evening School New
manites in attendance were: 
Kathy Galligan, Bill Bond, Joe 
Morgan, and John Van Holt, Jr. 
Dont magnify your troubles. 
Troubles will find you any
way and like burrs, they are 
hard to shake off.
66An Engineer"
An engineer is a person who 
passes as an exacting expert on 
the basis of being able to turn 
out with prolific fortitude infinite 
strings of incomprehensible for
mulas calculated with micrometric 
precision from vague assumptions 
which are based on debatable fig
ures taken from inconclusive ex
periments carried out with instru
ment of problematical accuracy 
by persons of doubtful reliability 
and questionable mentality for the 
avowed purpose of annoying and 
confounding a hopeless chimeri
cal group of fanatics referred to 
all too frequently, as engineers.*
Points Correction
We wish to give credit to the 
following girls for Student 
Council points earned during 
the past year which were in
correctly published in the last 
listing.
Audrey Wiskow ................10?4
Bernice Cieciera......................3
Approximately 50% of 
students live on campus.
Tech
ES Summer Session
All students who expect to register for Evening Summer Courses 
are requested to inform the Registrar of Evening Classes since per
mits to register will be mailed prior to the evening of registration.
Students following a degree program should schedule one of the 
following subjects in accordance with information on pages 32-65 
of the 1954-56 Bulletin of Evening Classes: C109, Cl 10, C401, C402, 
C501, S231, E201, E202, E571, E572.
June 13 to August 6, 1955
FEEs212Trigonometry (8)MWF7:30- 9:30PH211$51.20s214Calculus I (8)MWF7:30- 9:30PH20951.20s215Calculus 11 (8)MWF7:30- 9:30PH21551.20s216Calculus IH (8>MWF7:30- 9:30PH20851.20s231Statics (9)MWF7:30- 9:30PH21057.60
S 232 Dynamics (9)MWF7:30- 9:30PH319A57.60S233Str. of Materials (9)MWF7:30- 9:30PH11557.60
E201Surveying (9)MWF6:30- 9:30PH23-B,23-D57.60
E202Surveying (9)MWF6:30- 9:30PH23-B.23-D57.60
E571Draw. & Desc. Geom. I (9)MWF6:30-10:30AH327B.33157.60
E572Draw. & Desc. GeomII (9(MWF6:30-10:30AH327B.33157.60
C109 English Composition(9)MWF7:30- 9:30AH237-A49.50c110 English Composition<9)MWF7:30- 9:30AH235-B49.50c401Economics  (9)MTh7:00-10:00AH132E49.50c402Economics n (9)MTh7:00-10:00AH132E49.50c501Intro. Psychology (9)MWF7:30- 9:30AH336B49.50
Registration for the Evening Summer Session will be held on 
Monday evening, June 13, between 7:00 and 9:00 in the Exhibition 
Room, first floor of the Fine Arts Building. Students registered dur
ing 1954-55 should present their original registration receipt cards.
The schedule of classes goes into effect on Tuesday evening, Jims 
14. Subjects with less than ten registrants may be withdrawn. Ns 
classes will be held on Monday, July 4.
And then you find her summering 
next to your house on the bay...
M-m-man,
that's PURE PLEASURE!
re pleasure... SNtOCE CAIIS.
cigarette 
yet so mild!
P. S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive 
blend of costly tobaccos  one of the reasons why Camels are America's most popular cigarette!
K. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Wlnston-6*len, N. 01

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 17, 1955
Scotch n Soda
The Scotch n Soda Club recent
ly elected John Drgon president 
and production coordinator for the 
1955-56 season. Johnny is a junior 
EE who hails from right here in 
Pittsburgh. He was Purchasing 
Agent for this years show. Johns 
executive board will consist of 
Publicity Director, Wes Folsom; 
Business Director, Ed Pasierb; Mu
sical Director, Don Peduto; and 
Technical Director John Leonard.
The portion of the Administra
tive Board that has been chosen to 
date will include Bob Smith, Harv 
Breverman, Mary Michael Pol
lock, Ann Adams and John Kestner.
Secretarial
Installation of new Secretarial 
Club officers will take place at the 
final meeting of the Secretarial 
Club to be held on Monday, May 
23, at 5:00 p.m. in the Morewood 
Gardens Blue Room. Seniors will 
be special guests at this meeting.
Delta Skull
Newly elected officers of Delta 
Skull, junior mens honorary are: 
president, Clarence Schmidt; vice 
president, Ben Jones; secretary, 
Norm Achilles; and treasurer, 
Terry Sharp.
Scabbard and Blade
Recent elections held by Scab
bard and Blade, National Honor
ary Society for advanced ROTC 
students, resulted in the selection 
of George Lang as captain for next 
year. First lieutenant will be John 
Dougherty; second lieutenant, John 
Herr. Steven Mapes will serve as 
first sergeant.
Techs chapter, known as G 
company, sixth regiment, annually 
sponsors the Military Ball, intra
mural rifle matches, and serves as 
a part of Spring Carnival Commit
tee.
Tau Beta Pi
In the recent Tau Beta Pi elec
tions, the following men were 
elected to serve for the coming 
year: president, Edward Feigenbaum; vice president, Lawrence 
Kronenberger; corresponding sec
retary, Donald Gross; recording 
secretary, Ted Hatch; and cata
loguer, Robert Engelmore.
Dean David
[Continued from page 1] 
be working chiefly with freshmen, 
helping them to get oriented to 
college life. He will teach an ori
entation course required for all 
incoming freshmen and Miami 
takes in over 2000 every year. He 
will spend considerable time this 
summer getting acquainted with 
his new location so that he will 
be able to answer the questions 
of the new students next fall.
Dean SDavid received his B. S. 
degree from Ohio State Univer
sity and a masters degree from 
Pitt. At present he is working on 
his doctors degree at Pitt.
It is with regret that he leaves 
Carnegies campus, having built 
up quite an attachment in eight 
years. He says My association 
with students here has been extremly pleasant, and I will miss 
working wit! the students and the 
activities program at Tech.
Intramural Board
The Intramural Board and Man
agers Club will hold their annual 
banquet Thursday, May 19, at 6:00 
p.m. in the Carnegie Union. Man
agers who plan on attending this 
affair please sign up on the bul
letin board in the gym.
Home Ec Club
The May Time Tea honoring 
home economics" students will be 
held in the Carnegie Union on May 
18, 1955 from 3:30 p.m. to 5:00 
p.m. This tea is given annually in 
the Spring by the Home Economics 
Club for its members.
Recognition pins will be pre
sented on this occasion to the new 
officers for the school year 1955- 
1956. Those receiving pins will be 
Barbara Moore, president; Ruth 
Johnson, vice-president; Henrietta 
Maus, secretary; Margaret Vetter, 
treasurer; and Janet Bishop, his
torian. Betty Heltsley was ap
pointed social chairman, and Mary 
McClure is the new art chairman. 
Miss Myers and Miss Hamilton are 
advisers for the coming year.
YMCA
[Continued from page 1] 
the Student Cabinet are: presi
dent, Clarence Schmidt; first 
vice president, Tom Harrison; 
second vice president, Chris Cook; 
secretary, Bob Marik; and treas
urer, Don Tellalian. These men, 
along with the other student 
leaders of the Y, the faculty 
members of the Committee of 
Management, and the executive 
secretary, Mr. Sam Gibson, face 
the problem of continuing the 
rebuilding program that was 
started last fall. At that time the 
Y was in a state of near-dor
mancy, after a long history of 
outstanding activity beginning in 
1921.
Revitalized by Mr. Gibson
Last summer, Mr. Gibson was 
appointed Coordinator of Relig
ious Activities and Executive Sec
retary of the YMCA. He began 
the job of reorganization by call
ing together a group of students 
to lay the groundwork of purpose 
and program. After several meet
ings, both of the student group 
and the faculty group, definite 
plans were launched. A commit
tee under the leadership of Prof. 
R. R. Rothfus formulated a Con
stitution and Bylaws, and a stu
dent cabinet was chosen.
A few projects were carried out 
during the first semester including 
a retreat in late November on 
Faith, Sex, and Love, and an 
Epiphany candlelight service in
January. Five delegates were sent 
to the National Student Assembly 
in Lawrence, Kansas, over the 
Christmas holidays.
Membership Campaign
In the spring the program 
spread out to the campus. A 
membership campaign was car
ried out which resulted in the 
formation of a fairly large inter
ested group which will be the 
nucleus for next years program. 
Several joint YM-YWCA Campus 
Forums were held for the whole 
campus, on the general subject 
Conflicts on the Campus. Such 
specific topics as Campus Activ
ities, Whats Wrong? and Sci
ence and Religion were discus
sed in this series.
This summer the Y will send 
three delegates, Sam Gibson, Clar
ence Schmidt, and Bob Marik, to 
the YMCA Worldwide Centennial 
in Paris, France. The experience 
and knowledge, that they will gain 
will be very helpful to the future 
work of this organization.
It is hoped that more Tech stu
dents will join in the work of the 
*Y next year, now that it is firm
ly re-established. Guided by the 
stated purpose of . . . seeking to 
comprehend and act upon the im
plications of our faith for our per
sonal and community living. this 
year's members have derived great 
profit out of the effort they have 
put into the YMCA.
The enrollment at Carnegie 
Tech today averages 3,000 students 
from every part of the country 
and many foreign countries.
Members Of CFP 
Become Parents 
Of Korean Orphan
An eight year old Korean boy 
named Lee Won Ho has warm 
clothes to wear and food to eat 
thanks to the generosity of Car
negie Techs CFP. At the start-of 4jg 
the Korean War, the little boys 
father joined the Republic of 
Korea Army and was never heard 
from again after being captured 
by the communists.
Lee Won Ho and his mother 
and sister were forced to flee from 
their home in Seoul and managed 
to survive as refugees until Seoul 
was recaptured by U.N. forces in 
the early part of 1951. When they 
returned, the family had no home i 
and no means of support. Finally 
the three were given a room in 
the humble home of a friend and 
have remained there while the 
mother earns a meager income by 
knitting sweaters and gloves.
Recently, through an organiza
tion called Foster Parents Plan for 
War Children, the members of 
CFP financially adopted the 
small Korean and changed the 
picture of the familys former 1 
existance. Cash grants to provide 
food and shelter and a small 
allowance are being sent monthly.
In a letter to his foster parents he 
said, All of our family are very 
grateful to you. I will make it 
worthwhile by studying hard and 
being a good boy.
Buy
CHESTERFIELD
today!
Youll SMILE youp approval 
of Chesterfields smoothness 
mildnessrefreshing taste.
Yoiill SMILE your approval 
of Chesterfields quality  
highest qualitylow nicotine.
Largest selling cigarette in Americas colleges
c Uoorrr & Mnu Tonteo Co.
