TARTAN
September 18,1979 Volume 80, Number 2 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Mayor's speech: up in smoke
New dorm wiring 'would not pass inspection
by Doug Kirsop
Some of the wiring in the new Margaret 
Morrison Apartments has been found to be 
below wiring code standards. Light 
switches and wall sockets in the individual 
apartment units are grounded, but they are 
grounded incorrectly. The same type of 
switches and sockets in one sorority house 
are not grounded at all.
All of the fixtures have a grounding 
screw, but in all of the above cases, it is not 
in use. The city wiring code specifically 
states that all electrical fixtures provided 
with a grounding screw must use it to 
ground the fixture. A city electrical 
inspector told the TARTAN that this 
improper grounding would not pass an 
electrical inspection, and would probably 
not pass a fire inspection.
Although a ground wire provides an 
alternate path for electricity in the event of 
a short circuit in either the fixture or any 
appliance connected to it, Oscar Mayer, 
Acting Director of Auxiliary Services said 
he felt that there was . .no immediate 
safety hazard.
The shattered glass in this Skibo door 
is a result of recent vandalism.
This room and others in the new Margaret Morrison Apartment complex has improper wiring that 
would fail in an electrical inspection and a fire inspection.
On Thursday, September 13, Mayer in 
structed Physical Plant to contact th< 
contractor that built the new dorms. The> 
asked for an electrician to be sent out tc 
look at some of the wiring in question 
As of noon on Friday, none had arrived
I am most concerned about the safety 
hazard, said Mayer, but the wiring and 
inspection is the responsibility of the 
contractor.
Mayer referred technical and exact 
safety questions to Joe McNally, Associate 
Director of Physical Plant. However, the 
TARTAN was unable to contact McNally 
for questioning.
According to the city building code, 
a building may not be occupied until it 
has passed all of the required inspections. 
The electrical inspection is one of those 
specified as required because conditions 
that do not meet the code are considered 
unsafe.
Mayer concluded by saying that 
whatever the problem(s) are, . .they will 
be corrected, I assure you.Jobs and salaries to grads are up
by Pete Levin
-The 972 who actively sought jobs and 
graduated from Carnegie-Mellon last year 
received 1748 separate job offers, an in
crease of thirty-nine and one-half percent 
over last year.
Last year, the placement and career ser
vices department arranged a record 9,904 
interviews on campus, up 21 percent over 
the previous year. This year 550 corpora
tions will conduct at least as many inter
views as last year. This is an increase of 
thirty two percent over the number of cor
porations looking for CMU graduates 
over last year.
As the number of job offers go up, so 
do the starting salaries. The biggest per
cent jump took place in the electrical 
engineering and mathematics disciplines 
with the average salary offers of $18,612
for the former and $17,400 for the latter. 
These figures apply only to the class of 
1978, as last years survey is not yet com
plete .
What is known about our most recent 
graduates is that on the average there were 
179 offers for every 100 graduates seeking 
employment. Electrical engineers had the 
highest average with 46 job offers for every 
ten students, and H&SS had the lowest 
with ^only one job offer per person. 
H&SS showed the biggest improvement as 
far as job placement is concerned by nearly 
doubling its offer to graduate ratio. This 
statistic is of particular significance because 
in the nation as a whole, jobs in the hu
manities were down 14% last year.
The reason for the incredible success 
of the placement department, according 
to J. Dennis Ryan, director of career
services and placement at CMU, is a com
bination of an improved economy and the 
reputation Carnegie-Mellon enjoys in the 
business community as providing highly 
qualified people to help their organiza
tions.* __ _
Ryan added that he is confident the 
trend of high placement percentage will 
continue this year.
We cannot accommodate another cor
poration looking to recruit on campus until 
mid April,  he explained.
In addition to arranging interviews for 
graduates on campus, the placement de
partment also offers a counseling service 
for students interested in a company which 
is not planning on visiting or actively recruting here. They also run seminars on job 
interviewing as well as individualized help 
in preparing a resume.
by Beth Arden
Mayor Richard Caliguiri arrived fiftyfive minutes later than scheduled Tuesday 
for the Association of Professional Office 
Women in Education (APOWE) luncheoncutting his speaking time down to approxi
mately five minutes.
The Mayor wasnt aware of the fact 
that we are strictly a noon to one group, 
said Carolyn Goldberg. President of 
APOWE. Most of our members have to 
return to work at 1 PM and just couldnt 
stay to listen to him, she finished.
Caliguiri was scheduled to speak at 
noon. He had planned to talk about the 
citys Renaissance II program. A fire in the 
Law and Finance Building downtown de
tained the Mayor. He spotted the smoke 
while heading towards CMU for the lun
cheon. As a result, he got involved at the 
scene, staying to make sure that no one 
was injured.
Instead of his intended speech, Caliguiri 
emphasized his involvement in all matters 
pertaining to Pittsburgh on local, state and 
nation-wide levels. He illustrated this by 
describing his delay and pointing out his 
involvement at the scene.
Caliguiri could only answer one of many 
prepared questions in the short time he
spoke. The question pertained to the mass 
transit system. The Mayor explained that 
plans that have been in the works for many 
years are now going into construction.
He said a subway-type network that will 
go from the South Hills and stop at major 
department stores downtown is being built. 
Also, railroad tracks from Shadyside to 
downtown will be removed and a bus line 
installed. The mayor felt that these systems 
would help relieve the gas crisis. The plans 
are also part of the original talk Caliguiri 
intended to give at the luncheon.
He felt really bad about not coming 
through for us and he hopes that well in
vite him back again to do a better job, 
Goldberg concluded. Wed really like to 
have him back because we have a lot of 
good questions to ask him, she added.
Goldbergs group, which is open to all 
staff members on campus, holds a monthly 
business meeting and luncheon. It is mainly 
a social group. Mayor Caliguiri was invited 
to speak at the opening meeting this year 
as part of a continuing program of infor
mative entertainment. For more informa
tion about APOWE, contact Goldberg at 
x2212.
Joe Stark triumphantly raises the pigskin over CMU's final touchdown in Saturday's 36-0 thrMhing 
of Ohio Wesleyan. Details on page 17._____________________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

TARJAN
Vali-Dine syndrome
For anyone who haSnt noticed, the problems plaguing 
the new Food Service System have overwhelmingly replaced 
whats your major?" as the favored subject of discussion 
among students at CMU.
Thats a legitimate change considering that the ValiDine System4 food plans have left many of us hungry, 
frustrated, or both, over these past few weeks. Few can 
admit they have been satisfactorily served, pleased with 
prices and portions, or excited about the added frills 
accompanying the new dining locations.
The TARTAN believes that there are problems with the 
Vali-Dine system and its implementation:
"The kid who eats every meal (21 per week) is getting 
burned, John Eichmuller, Director of Food Service, 
admits. Vali-Dines suggested plans were based on research 
gathered from last years contract holdersa maximum of 
141/z meals per week per person was calculated. v
The long lines in the Bakery-Deli and the Kiltie Cafe 
force many of us to accept a shorter lunch hour or a later 
dinner elsewhere.
Students feel cheated because of different prices for the 
same items. For example, four fat french-fries cost 35 cents 
in the Kiltie Cafe, one bag containing over 25 small frenchfries is the same price in the Grill; one container of yogurt 
is 45 cents in the Deli Annex and 20 cents more in the 
Grill.
Food Service on the weekends is almost non-existent,and 
offers practically no variety.
Food Service is aware of many of these problems and 
they are doing something about them.
Most of the complaints Eichmuller receives are about the 
Bakery-Deli. The move to Morewood this year intended to 
accomodate students, has not yet realized its potential 
because the buying patterns of students are substantially 
different than that of the faculty and staff it served pre* viousfy. More sandwich makers and cash registers are being 
added to handle the increased volume.
In an effort to shorten lines in the Kiltie Cafe, Food 
Service is controlling flow of students at turnstiles which 
reiieveS pressure on cashiers who are also learning to cope 
with Vali-Dine.
Prices have been listed or displayed for each item in 
every dining area.
Hours at Salads Plus and More-Pizza have been extended 
in response to positive student demand.
The salad bar at Salads Plus will be divided into high 
and low cost items. This will lower the average cost (now 
75 cents/ounce), and offer the choice of includingand 
paying forthe more expensive items.
Although a large-scale change such as the Vali-Dine 
system cannot be implemented without some problems, 
the TARTAN believes that Food Service is ignoring some 
serious ones.
Students who eat more than 15 meals a week will be 
paying more for those "extra" meals than they did last 
year. Students are finding out what food really costs,  
Eichmuller explains.
Prices for the same items will differ depending on which 
dining area you choose.
And the marginal weekend service will remain as is.
The Food Service Directors Hotline (578-2128) is 
open Monday from 5-6 PM. Anyone can make an ap
pointment to see John Eichmuller by calling the hotline 
number between 8:30 and 5 PM. The managers, as well 
as Eichmuller, spend a lot of time "out on the floor" and 
therefore are very visible and accessible to students.
The effort to improve the system, while commendable, 
is doomed to failure unless the needs and wants of students 
are given due consideration. However, it is unfair to force 
the administration to play "mind reader.  It is up to the 
students to express themselves where it will do some good.
Nice guys finish last
With a decision made by James - Banner, Director of 
Athletics and Physical Education at CMU, and handed 
down with approval by President Cyert, A Phi O, a national 
service fraternity, is no longer operating the concession 
stands at football and basketball games.
A Phi O has been raising money for charity by handling 
concessions for over thrity years.
This summer, Banner decided that the university Food 
Service system was better equipped and organized to 
handle the increased volume of business generated by the 
growing crowds at football and basketball games.
Letters
The other side
Editor:
I am writing in reply to your 
last weeks letter concerning the 
new food service system.
As the writer of the letter 
mentioned, the pamphlet distri
buted last semester, and during 
the summer was almost enough to 
convince anyone that the system 
was a fraud. The examples in the 
menu section were poorly chosen, 
and hardly representative.
The writer of the letter also 
seems to be disturbed by the fact 
that she would have to pay $4.10 
per day (...$1100, for 9 months. 
Thats over $100 a month$25 a 
week...) for food that has been 
prepared, saving her the time of 
walking to Oakland to buy th 
food, and the time involved in 
cooking it. Even McDonalds, 
with its world famous efficiency, 
couldnt provide the opportunity 
for a balanced diet at that rate. 
And shed still have to walk to 
Oakland.
The ultimate absurdity is the 
statement that Food Service 
buys its food in bulk, paying 
much less than we pay in a super
market, why are we paying 
more? This statement conveni
ently neglects the fact that Food 
Service must pay the wages and 
salaries of a large full-time staff. 
The easiest way to relate this to 
a campus that has such a high 
concentration of technical stu
dents is mathematically. When I 
was last on this campus (Fall 77), 
the food cost percentage being 
assumed by Food Service was 
35%. Therefore: '
,35P=C
where P is the selling price of an 
item, and C is the cost of the 
ingredients in a portion of food. 
This formula is easily converted to 
P=C4(.35) 
to yield a selling price, given the 
cost of the ingredients.
 Applying the formula to the 
example given by Ms. Smith, and 
assuming that Food Service can 
get the half gallon of milk for 30%
less than the Supermarket price, 
we arrive at:
($0.90-^(0.741 ga 1)^-7 oz)4{0.50 
gal4T28 oz^l portion ^-0.3 5) 
$19.68
It is, however, doubtful that Food 
Service could get that great a 
discount from the Supermarket 
Price, since most stores use milk 
as a loss leader to attract business 
to higher profit items.
The food cost percentage 
would vary from operation to 
operation, probably from the 
lowest percentage of 35% at the 
Kiltie Cafe, to the 80% figure of 
the Deli Annex, which explains 
why yogurt sells for $0.44 at the 
Deli Annex and for $0.65 at the 
Kiltie Cafe.
As to the lines mentioned in 
other parts of the same issue, it is 
necessary to note that two prob
lems were apparent in the first 
two weeks of school at the main 
cafeteria. The first was that the 
scatter system was virtually ab1rARTAN

Volume 80September 18, 1979Number 2
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
Production Manager: 
Assistant Editor: 
News Editor: 
Magazine Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Jean Pellegrini 
Neil Adler 
Brian Byrnes 
Karen Stevens 
Michael Brzustowicz 
Mory Brenner 
Doug Kirsop 
Susan Borg 
Lynn Epstein 
Perry Colosimo 
Alan Spero 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Megalis
Assistant News Editor: Beth Araen 
Assistant Art Director: Tom Hart 
Production Assistants: Larry Duffy
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52, (412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
continued on next page

---------------------------------------------------

President Richard Cyert expresses his views on CMU in the 1980s. This is the first of a series of columns by 
CM U administrators.VIEWS
I have been examining the 
conditions in the 80s and trying 
to relate what I see to the running 
of the university. The dominant 
element in the 80s , of course, as 
far as higher education is con
cerned, is the decline in the num
ber of high school graduates. The 
peak of high school graduates was 
reached in 1978 and the decline in 
numbers will persist all through 
the 80s. By 1985 there will be 
15% fewer high school graduates 
than in 1978. This factor has a 
number of ramifications for the 
economy and in turn for higher 
education. The probabilities are 
high that the economy itself dur
ing the 80s will suffer from a 
shortage of labor. The labor force 
growth will decrease from 2.3% a 
year (which existed from 69 
through 76) to about 1.1% per 
year. Thus even with small 
growths in GNP, the economy will 
create new jobs at a rate that 
should maintain employment at a 
high level. In fact, the economy 
will probably suffer from labor 
shortages unless other measures 
are taken. The effect of this con
dition for the university is that 
there will probably be some de
crease in the percentage of high 
school students going on to col
lege and a decline in the propor
tion of college graduates going on 
to graduate school. The actual 
condition will depend on the rela
tive rates of salary increases. If 
salaries for college graduates, for 
example, increase at a faster rate 
than those for high school gradu
ates, there will likely be an in
crease in the proportion of high 
school students going on to col
lege.
Carnegie-Mellons situation is
exacerbated somewhat by the fact 
that we are still more dependent 
upon Pennsylvania for our student 
body than we would like to be. 
The 78 class had 54% of its stu
dents coming from Pennsylvania. 
This percentage is down some
what from 72 because we have 
been working on the problem. We 
are trying to increase our recruit
ing efforts in the Southwest where 
the decline is not expected to take 
place. In Pennsylvania the declines 
will be greater than in the country 
as a whole. It is estimated that by 
1985, the number of high school 
graduates in Pennsylvania will 
have declined by 20%, rather than 
15%, for example. These figures 
are not hard figures for Pennsyl
vania, but they are probably rea
sonably good. We are continuing 
to assess our efforts, and our best 
estimate is that we will maintain 
our enrollment for at least the 
next three years. This year the 
applications were the second 
highest in our history.
For the current year our en
rollment, in terms of total num
bers and in terms of balance, is 
perhaps the best that it has ever 
been. I am particularly gratified at 
the significant increases that we 
have gotten in the H&SS enroll
ment and the enrollment of the 
College of Science. We have ac
cordingly been able to decrease 
the number of students that we 
have taken in engineering. Engi
neering applications continue to 
be extremely strong, and if we 
had the capacity we could take 
significantly more students with
out lowering the quality. We do, 
however, want to keep the en
gineering enrollment between 300 
and 350.
We have continued to be highly 
selective in admitting students and 
have been raising our standards of 
admission. The enclosed table 
shows the results of a study reported in Change for September, 
1979. The rankings are based on 
an analysis of SAT scores. Ob
viously data of this kind are im
perfect measures of the quality of
a school or a student body. Never
theless the signigicant improve
ment in our ranking is one indi
cation of the increasing reputation 
of Carnegie-Mellon University.
Highest-Ranking 4-year Institutions 
by Estimated Selectivity
Institutions1961-63*
Rank In 
19731976-77
Change in 
1961-
California Institute of Technology1110
Massachusetts Institute of Technology335-2
Swarthmore4106: 2Rice52214-9
Harvard653+ 3
Stanford72017-10
Reed81528-20
Amherst9412-3
Pomona102330-20
Harvey Mudd119110Carfeton122424- 12
University of Chicago132721-8Haverford ,1489+ 5
Webb Institute of Naval Architecture1568+ 7
Yale16134+ 12
Princeton171113+ 4
Columbia and Barnard181210+ 8Middlebury194942-23Wellesley202532-12
Johns Hopkins212915+ 6
Williams222619+ 3
Bryn Mawr23177+16
Brandeis243444-20
Oberlin253932-7
Dartmouth1616
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute**1825
Duke**1934
Brown**2122
Carnegie Mellon**3318
Cooper Union**3220
Wesleyan (Connecticut)**3023
Mount Holyoke3524
* Radcliffe College ranked second in 1961-63,' has since merged with Harvard.
** Rank in 1961-63 was below 25, but actual rank is not available.
NOTE: Deep Springs College, ranked second in both 1973 and 1977, is a two-year college.
New College, ranked 14th in 1973, has sine merged with University of South Florida.
SOURCE: Astin (1965), Astin & Henson (1977), Barron's (1978) and Cass & Birnbaum {1977}.
more Letters
andoned by the managers during 
the first week, while the cashiers 
were unfamiliar with the new 
machines. The problem the 
second week is that the students 
seem to have an obsession with 
forming lines at one point in the 
serving area, when other parts of 
the serving area are devoid of 
people, overthrowing the entire 
concept of the scatter system 
design installed two years ago.
As the year continues, I have a 
feeling that the problems being 
encountered now will slowly fade 
away, as everybody gets used to 
the new system, and the new 
hours of 6 units open to student 
trade.
Tom Knapp 
Associate of Applied Science 
Food Service Management 
Junior, Civil Engineering
A Phi O ambushed 
Editor:
For over 30 years, students 
have sold concessions at all home 
games of the Tartan Football 
and Basketball teams. The stu
dents were part of Alpha Phi 
Omega, a national service fra
ternity, and any profit from the
generally underpriced concessions 
was donated to local charities. 
This year, Food Service takes 
over the operations at all of 
the games. The reasons for the 
shift: It is believed Food Service 
can provide faster service and 
A Phi O was not provideing adequate service.
Certainly a $2.5 million pro
fessional operation can supply 
better quality service than a 
$2500 per year volunteer op
eration. But whether 15 paid 
employees can provide quicker 
service than 25 volunteers re
mains to be seen.
It has been claimed that A 
Phi O ran out of food at every 
football game last year. True, 
the Homecoming game and one 
other suffered stockouts, but half 
is not all. And in large part 
University policy was respon
sible.
Many years ago, Food Ser
vice supplied A Phi O with all of 
its needs, charging only for 
what was used. Not so long ago 
this policy was changed. Why 
should Skibo provide free ser
vices for students (purchasing 
and storage)? A Phi O afterward 
bought all supplies from the low
est-priced supplier (generally still
Food Service). A Phi O also 
bought a freezer to store left
overs until the next game, as 
utility bills climbed, it was de
cided that power to the stadium 
(where the freezer resides) could 
be turned off when the stadium 
was not in use. Several freezersof-spoiled-food later, A Phi O 
realized it no longer had re
liable storage capacity. Afterward, 
orders for minimum amounts of 
food were made in advance, to 
be supplemented if needed by 
emergency purchases from Skibo 
during the game. But, Food 
Service reduced its weekend staff, 
making it difficult, if not impos
sible, to find someone to re
lease food to A Phi O. Members 
then brought cars so emergency 
trips to local supermarkets could 
fill the needs. Besides coordina
tion problems, this led to fre
quent over purchases of buns 
and hotdogs as well as occas
sional stockouts.
A Phi O members who can
not remember life here 10 years 
ago will be inclined to say good 
riddance to the problems of 
concession service, and regretably 
will put up with fewer dona
tions to charity. Food Service 
will take over, sell more goods,
discover the need to raise prices In spite of improved service 
in order to pay Wages, and all will at -the games I believe there has 
be forgotten. The strong and been a loss here, 
powerful have once again proven Chris Fostel
they can beat the weak and ME 73
charitable. IA 78
TAKIAN
The TARTAN agrees that this was a logical decision 
and conclusion to reach given the fact that A Phi O was 
unable to fully meet the attendees demands over the 
last few years.
We strongly disagree with the way in which the 
decision was made. An A Phi O representative was never 
contacted during the decision-making process. Only after 
the decision was made and approved, and two days before 
supplies would have been ordered, was Cynthia Lubon, 
President of A Phi O and Chairperson of Concessions, 
indirectly informed of the situation.
Considering that she lived on campus and worked at 
Mellon Institute this summer, the lack of communication 
between Lubon and the administration was inexcusable.
Volunteer student organizations get little support from 
anywhere in their attempt to raise funds for charity. Its 
sad to see that our administrators have joined the band
wagon by not being charitable enough to consider A Phi 
Os side of the story.
Jean Pellegrini 
Editor-In-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

Parking committee organizesFood Service to run concessions
On September 17, the University 
Parking Committee held its organizational 
meeting for the 1979-80 school year. The 
committee was appointed last Spring at 
the request of the universitys central 
administration. Its functions are twofold: 
to devise criteria for allocating parking 
within the framework of the parking fees 
set by the administration and to handle 
appeals regarding allocations or decisions 
regarding abuses of university parking
Last Spring the Committee revised 
criteria for allocating space in CMU 
parking facilities. .The new procedures 
were implemented by the university on a 
one-year trial basis. Individuals with any 
suggestions for improving these procedures 
or complaints about current parking 
policies and regulations should submit 
them in writing to the committee chair
person, Barry K. Beyer in the history 
department, 240 Baker Hall.
New SDC reps elected
The TARTAN extends congratulations to the following people elected in last weeks 
Student Dorm Council election.
Henderson Hall
Lex Arlet
Roselawn
Abby Seim an
Scobell
Mort Kligerman 
Jeff Pitchford 
Bob Ried
Hammerschlag
Yousif Shamoo 
Doug Bucher 
Jim Bizzo 
Tom Tsun 
Eric Mendelsohn
McGill
Brian Frank 
Frank Sweeny
Boss Hall
Mark Knapp 
Mark Dobbie
Woodlawn
Craig Warner
Margaret Morrison Apts
Norreys Whalen 
Bob Schmidt 
Mike Fausti 
Rudy Neoveb 
Phil Thompson
Welch
Paul Karmdin 
Edmond Flanders
Donner
Nina Houska 
Richard Hall 
Bill Gould 
Bill Sisak 
Wayne Kuehl 
Stacey Matz 
Gina Crockett 
Dan Nichols
Doherty
Arthur Gurney 
Bob Newstadt 
Kevin Hartman 
Aaron Kats 
Josh Medvin 
David Brandwene
Mudge House
Nora Lederle 
Rick Berkenstock 
Jake Gatch 
Lisa Mummery 
Bill Canilang
Morewood Gardens 
A-Tower:
Nancy Bael 
Sarah Schauffer 
Terry Long 
David McVey 
Mark Finestone 
Jane Weisbecker 
C&D - Tower: 
Lauren Bender 
Beverly Feldtmose 
Vicki Cooper 
Alis Huber 
Monica Pree 
Ellen Whiter 
E-Tower:
Bob Pellegrino 
Scott Schaffer 
Larry Sita 
Lee Miller 
Nick Trbovich 
Eric Moore
by Doug Kirsop
University Food Service (UFS) will be 
operating the concessions stand at varsity 
football and basketball games this year 
which was formerly run by Alpha Phi 
Omega (APO) the national service 
fraternity.
Jim Banner, Director of Athletics, 
explained why he decided to offer the job 
to UFS: It certainly wasnt an easy
decision, but Food Service will be able to 
offer better service and greater variety.
Increased service and an expanded menu 
are the two major improvements John 
Eichmuller, Director of Food Service, feels 
he can offer over APO.
There will be five areas to purchase 
concessions at football games. Food
Service will open the four existing service 
windows, in addition to adding a free 
standing beverage station. Each service line 
will also use a cash register.
Items on the menu will include various 
types of hot dogs, meatball sandwiches and 
hoagies. Food Service will also continue to 
sell popcorn, peanuts, cold drinks and 
other snack foods such as potato chips, at 
the concession areas, as well as in the 
stands via vendors.
Eichmuller also said he will have people 
in the stands selling popcorn, peanuts, and 
cold drinks.
The concession stand itself has been 
painted orange in an attempt to make it 
less dreary.
Eichmuller concluded by saying, I 
think well do a nice job for them.E & S library
K\/ Rth Arrian  mby Beth Arden
Over the summer, the Engineering and 
Science Library expanded into an adjacent 
corridor on the fourth floor of Science 
Hall. The research and planning for the ex
pansion took almost two years. Planning 
began when the journal collection threaten
ed to grow out of the library.
Ann deKlerk, the previous Head of E 
and S, did some calculations and deter
mined the average growth rate of our 
journal collection to be 3.5 inches per title 
per year, commented Karla Goold, cur
rent Head of the library. This figure be
comes more astounding when you consider 
the fact that we carry approximately 1500 
titles.
Pressed for room, the library had two 
choices: to expand into the corridor
(which the university was willing to pro
vide) or to go to microfilm. Microfilm, 
Goold explained, was not chosen because 
of the poor response from the faculty.
The expansion, however, has been get
ting favorable responses from the faculty 
and other users. The expansion runs the 
full length of the corridor, both ends of 
which are bricked and boarded up. The 
wall where the current periodicals were 
being shelved was knocked out and a 
new browsing area was established, which 
is especially popular. All current issues of 
periodicals are now in full view.
Journals that are dated 1965 and be
yond are now shelved on the Porter Hall 
side of the library. The expansion houses 
the older journals (the newest being dated 
1964).
Overall, Goold is quite pleased with the 
move. It amazed me how hard everyone 
worked, she said of the summer workstudy library help th,at moved the books 
onto the stacks. She also stated her belief 
that the added access to these journals 
will greatly improve the librarys useful
ness.
ORIENTATION WEEKEND III
ACADEMIC RESOURCES
Friday, September 21
7 pm - Skibo Ballroom 
Academic Questions & Answers: Meet the Deans and Ad
visors of your college to discuss your program of study and 
any questions you may have. 
6 pm - 8 pm - 10 pm  An Unmarried Woman - AB Film DH 2210
Saturday, September 22
Noon - 4 pm - Skibo Ballroom  Learning Resource Fair 
Meet representatives from: Peer Help; Communications 
Skills Center; Free Academic Tutoring Service; Student Ad
visory Committees; Library; C-Map; Academic Advisory 
Center; Computation Center. 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm Girlfriends - SD C Film DH 2210

---------------------------------------------------

Meaning of the draft: past, present, future
by Ken Kulak
Over the summer months, several U.S. 
legislative committees were hard at work 
preparing draft registration bills. Although 
many concerned students and organiza
tions were hoping the bills would die a 
quick death in the House Armed Services 
Committee in June, such was not to be 
the case; instead, the suject of draft regis
tration made its appearance on the House 
floor last week.
On Wednesday September 12, the 
House rejected registration legislation by a 
vote of 259 to 155. While this vote lessens 
the threat of registration or induction in 
the near future, the possibility does not 
disappear completely, although the House 
did not pass registration at this time, it 
did call for the President to investigate 
the various aspects of reinstating an 
active Selective Service System.
The present state of the Selective 
Service System (SSS) is akin to a sleeping 
giant. In 1^75, President Ford, committed 
to an all-volunteer army, significantly 
reduced the SSS budget and placed the 
system in deep-standby, which effective
ly stopped all draft registration processes.
Periodically, legislation in both the 
Senate and the House attempted to bring 
back the SSS by appropriating the $10 
million necessary to reactivate its regis
tering procedures. With increasing feelings 
of U.S. inadequacy in military conflict 
(particularly stimulated by a Defense De
partment simulation which predicted
500,000 casulties in the first 6 weeks of
a conventional war with the U.S.S.R.) 
some legislators suggested immediate 
induction in several bills.
All the draft bills came together in 
the House Armed Services Committee, 
which mixed the bills into the Fiscal 
Appropriation bill for the Department 
of Defense, H.R.4040. Sections 812 
through 815 of the bill called for the 
following:
Registration to begin on January 
1st, 1981 for all males who sub
sequently become 18 on or after that 
date.
-Investigation by the President of 
various possibilities, including the 
drafting of women 
Selective Service participation in 
regular training sessions for military 
mobilization
Maintain the SSS separate form any 
other government agency, including 
the Defense Department
What does Draft Registration mean?
In the words of a publication distri
buted by the American Friends Service 
Committee, Reviving draft registration 
will mean that thousands of young men, 
and possibily women, will again be sub
jected to government intrusion and chan
neling. Individuals right to privacy and 
conscience will be casualties of the mili
tary buildup. . Perhaps most dangerously, 
a registration will provide the Pentagon 
with a faceless pool of prospective in
ductees to be used for large-scale inter-Orientation expanded
by Debbie Nir
In previous years when one thought of 
Freshman Orientation at CMU all there was 
to think about was Freshman Weekend, the 
Activities Fair, and a sporadic meeting. 
This year much more has been added to 
the orientation schedule thanks to the 
efforts of the Division of Student Affairs, 
the Student Senate, and many other 
student organizations.
Earlier, events such as studying sessions 
and college convocations were held, but 
nothing as collectively organized as this 
year. Basically, all the events remained the 
same as in the past until the Tuesday 
classes began. Then the dates of events 
changed, and more new activities 
appeared on the weekends.
This year, new student orientation has 
been divided into three weekends. The 
first weekend, Resources, People, Organi
zations/ consisted of receptions for 
foreign, transfer, and commuter students, 
a Residence Lite Party at Morewood 
Gardens, the annual Activities Fair, the 
Watermelon Bash, and a free concert by 
Josh White, Jr.
The second weekend, CMU and Its 
Traditions, held this past weekend, 
consisted of events which promoted 
school spirit. Activities included a meeting 
on The Student Alumni Tradition and a 
pep rally to help prepare for the first home 
football game against Ohio Wesleyan.
The third and final weekend of the 
CMU Freshman Orientation, Academic 
Resources, is being held this weekend. 
Happenings will include an Academic 
Questions and Answers period and a 
Learning Resource Fair. The last activity 
of the three weekends will be a PAT bus 
Tour of Pittsburgh.
According to Scott Miller, director of 
the Activities Fair and President of 
Student Senate, the big change in the 
orientation process was Dean Earle Swank. 
It came about mostly because of the 
initiation of Dean Swank. He didnt want 
the Freshman to be ignored after the 
first week of school.
?e.vm'E iWHQii.w^
210 OAKI AM) ,:;\VK. 
'Pittsburgh. V.
^0*3-3444
?unlimited Vsjrietiesaa 
Special orders available
vention overseas. A beefed-up standby 
system will expand our mobilization and 
make it easier to wage quick-start wars 
around the globe.
The military generally condisers the ages 
of 18 to 26 as useful draft material, and no 
student deferrments would have been 
permitted under a new registration system.
The inclusion of registration in the 
billions-of-dollars defense appropriations 
bill makes the $10 million for SSS seem 
unimportant. In addition, many details 
of registration have been kept rather 
vague; for example, the role of women, 
and even specific procedures for regis
trants.
Whats in the Future?
The defeat of registration was not a 
complete one. The actual rejections of 
registration we accomplished by the adop
tion of an amendment by Patricia 
Schroeder, D-Colorado, which struck ap
propriate clauses in H.R. 4040 but author
ized the President to further examine the 
idea of drafting men and women.
Some sources also report that the 
Senate and possibly several factions in the 
House may attempt to vote in a limited 
form of registration later in this session, 
but it is doubtful that such a move would 
succeed at this time.
Most freshmen agreed that the orienta
tion was a help in one way or another. 
One freshman remarked, Even if you 
didnt go to all the meetings and parties, at 
least you knew it was there if you needed 
help or wanted to have fun.
Despite all of this there were some prob
lems with the new orientation schedule. 
The biggest problem was lack of adver
tising. A meeting was held on one orienta
tion Friday night in order for freshmen to 
become acquainted with the different 
resources and departments of the campus. 
Only 15 students showed up. Miller 
thought the reason for this was because the 
meeting was held on a Friday night, 
opposite many of the first fraternity 
parties.
Another problem was with this years 
Activities Fair. In past years, the Activities 
Fair had been held on the first day of 
classes. People would stop at the tables on 
the way to class. This year the Fair was 
held on a Saturday, which may have 
caused the poor turn out.
Student appointments
Student Senate, at its meeting of September 11, confirmed Dean Earle Swanks nomina
tion of the following students to committees for which he had been asked to find stud
ent representation:
Security Policy Committee - Scott Sibley
Energy Committee (chaired by Dean Berg) - Andy Ragan and 
Domenick DeCesaris
Trustee Committee on Buildings and Grounds - Jim Balsom and 
Randy Over
Trustee Committee On Educational Affairs - Elliott Ohlberg and 
Cherie Hodge
Trustee Committee on Finance - Ken Boyd and Howard Kader
Trustee Committee on Student Affairs - Pat Bruckman, Eric 
Peterson, Joyce Brandon, and William Clousell
University Disciplinary Committee - John Alexander
Additional appointments will be presented for Student Senate approval at the meeting 
on September 18. These will include appointments to the Computer Policy Committee 
and to the Faculty Senate Councils.
Career Perspectives
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS PLANNING TO 
MAKE USE OF THE CAREER SERVICES AND 
PLACEMENT OFFICE THIS YEAR SHOULD ATTEND 
ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ORIENTATION MEETINGS;
MONSEPT244:00'PMWHERRETTROOMSKIBO
TUESSEPT2511:30AMWHERRETTROOMSKIBO
WEDSErT2611:30AMWHERRETTROOMSKIBO
WEDSEPT264:00PMROOM 7500SCIENCE HALL
AT THESE MEETINGS, STAFF MEMBERS WILL EXPLAIN 
THE OPERATING PROCEDURES OF THE OFFICE AND 
ANSWER QUESTIONS OF GENERAL INTEREST TO 
STUDENTS WHO WILL BE SEEKING EMPLOYMENT IN 
THE MONTHS AHEAD. RECRUITING SCHEDULES, 
FORMS, AND OTHER MATERIALS WILL BE 
DISTRIBUTED AT THAT. TIME.
Sponsored byOffice of Career Servees and Placement 
Carnegie Me lon Univerntv

---------------------------------------------------

Electronic Engineering 
Civil Engineering 
Mathematics 
Lab Chemistry 1
Biackbody 
Astrology 
59Funi 30 GraphicsOlka! Computa jndCakuUor 
Supplier of the 
1980 0) mpit 
Winter Games
value 
4 FREE software 
Pakettes with 
purchase of 
a TI-59
 see coupon
A new center to study communication 
problems in business, industry and govern
ment has been established here at CMU.
The Communications Design Center will 
undertake the basic research necessary to 
develop methods of teaching managers in 
the public and private sectors how to write 
in clear, simple language; incorporate 
graphic design principles into reports and 
other communications to reach readers 
more effectively; and analyze the impact 
of computer word processors on writing 
methods, as well as study ways to capita
lize on computer capabilities in communi
cations problems.
The Center will start with very prac
tical problems, such as communicating 
financial information, says Erwin Stein
berg, director of the Communication 
Design Center and professor of English and 
> interdisciplinary studies, From each speci
fic communications problem, we hope to 
gain further insight into the writing process 
so that we can develop general principles 
that can be applied to different types of 
communications problems. Steinberg adds 
that todays computer word processors are 
creating some very difficult problems. 
Whilesome writers adjust quickly to com
puter word processors, others have extreme 
difficulty adapting to them, he continues. 
We plan to undertake research in this area 
to help computer scientists develop 
systems that are more really adaptable to 
writers.
Alan Siegel, President of Siegel & Gale, 
a communications consulting firm in New 
York City that specializes in simplifying 
legal, quasi-legal and technical communica
tions, has been named co-director of the 
Center. Other members of the Center 
include: Joseph M. BMlay, Associate Dean,
College of Fine Arts and head of the design 
department; Lee W. Gregg, Associate Dean, 
Humanities and Social Sciences and head
of the Psychology department; Richard E. 
Young, head of the English department; 
and Thomas L. Boardman.
Campus gears up for Homecoming
Though still about a full month away, 
much of the campus has already begun 
preparations for the big weekend of Octo
ber 12, 13, and 14, Homecoming 1979.
With the creative potential of the dynamic 
theme, MAD FOR PLAID, the floats 
this year promise to be most colorful and 
exciting. Your organization still has 
plenty of time to put a fine float to - 
gether. Theres no petty regulations to 
stifle your creativity, and first, second, 
and third places will be awarded as a spec
ial incentive.
Already names have been submitted as
nominees to be Miss Varsity 1979. The 
rules have changed a bit this year, one 
important change being that any recog
nized student organization can now nom
inate a girl to be Miss Varsity. Make sure 
your organization nominates a deserving 
young lass and turns her name into the 
Alumni Office by 2:00 PM on Tuesday. 
September 18.
The Highlander Games will once again 
return to campus. On Friday afternoon, 
test your skill in the caber toss, tugof-war, sheath throw, and other arfcient 
Scottishgames. " "
$20 value 
2 FREE software 
Pakettes with , 
purchase of Aa TI-58C
see coupon
Page 6-TARTAN-September 18, 1y79
Center to study all facets of written communication
Free software from Texas Instruments 
can help make this semester a little easier.
A special offer if you act now! From Au
gust 15 to October 31, 1979 ... thats your 
special opportunity to purchase one of the 
worlds most advanced programmable 
calculators ... and get up to $40* worth of 
free software Specialty Pakettes in your 
choice of 16 different application areas.
TIs Specialty Pakettes are a new way to 
expand the usefulness of your TI Program
mable 58C or 59. The convenient notebook 
format includes complete step-by-step pro
gram listings, application notes, and sam
ple programs. Just enter the program you 
need and you can put it to work right 
away.t
Four FREE SPECIALTY PAKETTES 
with the purchase of a TI Programmable 
59. A $40* value. Two FREE SPE
CIALTY PACKETTES with the pur
chase of a TI Programmable 58C. A $20* 
value.
Both the TI Programmable 58C and 59 
feature TIs exclusive Solid State 
Software* plug-in library modules. Each 
5,000-step module contains a wide selection 
of prerecorded programs. Optional library 
modules are available in a variety of fields, 
including engineering, science, statistics, 
and business.
The TI Programmable 59 has up to 960 
program steps or up to 100 memories. 
Magnetic card read/write capability lets 
you record your own custom programs, or 
programs from your Specialty Pakettes. 
$300.*
The TJ Programmable 58C features up 
to 480 program steps or up to 60 memories.
*U.S suggested retail price 
'Specialty Packettes do not require 
plug-in module or magnetic cards 
TI Programmable 59 required 
Ml Programmable 59 with PC-100C or 
PC-100A printer/plotter required.
And it has TIs Constant Memory feature 
that retains data and program information 
even when the calculator is turned off. 
$125*.
Act now!
Visit your college bookstore or other TI 
retailer for more information, and let him 
help you select the program
mable thats right for you. j 
Use the coupon below to take \ lUf 
advantage of this special lim
ited time offer.
Use this coupon to obtain your FREE Specialty Pakettes.
? Ive bought my TI-58C, send me these 2 free Pakettes.
? Ive bought my TI-59, send me these 4 free Pakettes.
Send to: Texas Instruments, P0 Box 53,
Lubbock, TX 79408.
Texas Instruments will fulfill the offer you have selected 
above when you: (1) return this completed coupon, in
cluding serial number, (2) along with your completed 
customer information card (packed inbox), and (3) a 
dated copy of proof of your purchase verifying purchase 
of a TI Programmable 58C or 59 (whichever is applica
ble) between August 15 and October 31, 1979 Items 
mutt bo postmarked 1 or before November 7,1979, 
to quality for this special offer.
3
4.
Name
Address
CityState Zip
Calculator Serial Number (from back of calculator) ;
Please allow 30 days for delivery Offer void where 
prohibited by law Offer good in U S only
Texas Instruments technologybringing affordable electronics to your fingertips.
Septm brm18,9er1m
 1979 feus Instruments Inc or por MedI NCOR POR ATED45668

---------------------------------------------------

by Dave Land
Pittsburgh is a sight to see. By day or 
especially at night, the view of the Golden 
Triangle from Mt. Washington is not one 
youll soon forget. In fact, Pittsburgh is the 
-^6nly city in the world with a six-hundredfoot-high natural overlook so near to the 
downtown area. The Golden Triangle, 
formed by the three rivers; the Allegheny, 
C. the Monongahela, and the Ohio, into which 
the others flow, has more green spaces and 
parks than Paris, which makes the city a 
nice place to visit and live, work, and 
study.
To take in this breathtaking view, a view, 
which spans seventeen miles, follow the 
Boulevard of the Allies west, towards 
town, and follow the signs to the Liberty 
Bridge. Keep in the right-hand lane of the 
bridge, and make the right turn at the end 
of the bridge onto the P. J. McArdle Roadx way, which will take you to the top of Mt. 
Washington. The McArdle Roadway is 
sometimes restricted to oneway traffic 
down from the Mount, but detours are 
clearly marked when this is the case. At 
the top of the hill, turn left onto Grand
view Ave. There's plenty of free parking 
along this part of Grandview, and once 
you park, youll know-why you came. 
The view is memorable, and it can be seen 
from any of the mushroom-shaped over
looks along Grandview. If the weather is 
clear enough, good oT Cee-Em-You is
...more green 
spaces and parks  
than Paris
visible from the Mountsee if you can 
^ find it.
While youre up on the Mount, youll 
''ant to try some of the excellent food 
which abounds in this touristy part of
the city. The best combination of food
and view quality  is available at Chris
tophers, a classy, expensive place on 
the opposite end of Grandview from 
the overlooks, and at Cliffside. The lat
ter is a little' less expensive, but the
* food is superb, and every seat has a view.
Also while on Mt. Washington, take a 
ride on one of Pittsburghs two land
mark inclines. These are cable cars which 
ride up the face of Mt. Washington. The 
ride is exciting, and well worth the 
quarter that it costs and the time it takes. 
Make sure you try either the Duquesne 
Incline or the Monongahela Incline. Both 
depart Grandview Ave. on a regular sched
ule,_______________________________________
excellent food 
and service are 
heightened by the 
800 foot high
location...
In the one-half-square-mile Golden 
Triangle area (downtown, or. as some 
natives might say, dahntahn) there is 
more to do than to see. but do see the 
Fort Pitt blockhouse located in Point 
State park. The park itself is great, offer
ing frisbee-throwing room to please even 
the wildest open-space enthusiast. The 
blockhouse itself is but a tiny portion of 
the original fort, the fort which gave the 
city its name. It is the oldest standing 
structure in the city. and. while it is too 
small to call for an outing just to see it, 
there is the Fort Pitt museum which is 
next to it, and contains numerous histor
ical Pittsburgh artifacts.
Elsewhere in downtown, food is the 
prominent attraction. Probably the finest 
dining attraction in Pittsburgh is the internationally-famous Stouffers Top of the 
Triangle. Excellent food and service are 
heightened by the eight-hundred-foot-high 
location atop the United States Steel 
Building, which offers a view which, if one 
could see that far, would allow you to see 
Cleveland.
Across the Smithfield Street bridge 
from downtown is the Grand Concourse
restaurant, part of the soon-to-becompleted Station Square shopping com
plex in the old P&LE railroad station. The 
restaurant is open now, and is one of the 
classiest places in town. Its great, for im
pressing the folks or your backhom^ 
beaux. Be prepared, though, the tab is 
likely to approach S60 for a couple. The 
royal service and excellent seafood make 
the expense worthwhile. You'll want to 
make your reservations pretty well in ad
vance to assure good location. If you can, 
try to get the River Room. Reservations 
there, though, run as much as three months 
in advance.
On the North Side, about two minutes 
by.car from town, and an easy walk, Al
legheny Center offers shopping in the mall, 
or more spacey entertainment at Buhl 
Planetarium. Laserium is showing there 
almost every night, and the current pres
entation is the best of the three there so 
far. On other nights, the Planetarium has 
sky shows related to star-viewing for the
Closer to home, here in Oakland, is the 
Scaife Art Gallery and the Carnegie Mus
eum. Allow yourself plenty of time in 
each, as both are filled to capacity with 
things worth seeing. You won't want to 
rush. The Gallery has art from every per
iod. elegantly displayed in a handsome 
building. The museum is three floors of 
everything from plaster casts of the front 
of cathedrals to statuary from antiquity 
to ... well, the list is endless, and includes 
the worlds largest fossil collection. The 
art and architecture are favorites of art
ists, who populate the rooms sketching 
the displays there.
If art and history seems a little too 
much like school, then you can turn to the 
obvious alternative, food. That there is, 
and in abundance in Oakland. Whatever 
your preference, foreign i#r domestic, exot
ic or run of the mill, it is here. The best 
thing to do is to take a walk to Oakland 
and just stop in wherever looks good, 
season. Elsewhere in the Buhl are scientific 
exhibits to thrill and amaze you. More Pit
tsburgh history is on display on the North 
Side in the Old Post Office Museum, right 
next door to the Planetarium and the 
North Side branch of the Carnegie Lib
rary.
There are a few standouts, but for the most 
part. Ive done my best by just picking one 
that looks good.__________________________
world's 
largest fossil
collection
If you'd like to know whats happening 
in and around Pittsburgh, call the Pitts
burgh Convention and Visitors Bureau for 
a recorded message. The number is 391 - 
6840. For further information, visit the 
bureau in their visitor center in Equitable 
plaza, located in the large traffic island 
created by Liberty, Penn and Stanwix, 
downtown. Its very near the point.
I hope you enjoy discovering Pitts
burgh, and living here for the next few 
years. Looking forward a year or so, well 
see the opening of the David L. Lawrence 
convention center, and the Heinz Hall park 
and little theater. Soon after that, Rennaissance II will get underway with the start of 
renovations along Liberty and Penn 
avenues between those two new structures.
Much sooner in the future, as in this 
Sunday, September 23. youll have a 
chance to see Pittsburgh by bus. Sign up 
at the Skibo info desk--its free! Until 
next week, as a true Pittsburgher, 111 see 
you'ns later!
If you are up on Mt. Washington 
because your parents are visiting 
and you are showing them the 
sights of the city, and if they are 
in an expensive and generous 
mood, get them to take you to 
dinner up on Mount Washington. 
The view is worth paying for.
from "Guide to Living 
in Pittsburgh" by 
3rian K. Reid and 
Elaine A. Rich
Presenting Pittsburgh: Somplace special
Photo by Robert ZusmanCentered at the "Point" where the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers meet to form the Ohio, the heart of the downtown area comes alive at night.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANSeptember 18, ly79
by Annette Giovengo
Self-defense is one of the most valuable 
skills anyone can possess. CMU students 
have the opportunity to learn to protect 
themselves through a self-defense course 
offered Wednesdays at 4:30 PM in Thistle 
Hall. The course is worth six credits, is 
graded on a pass/fail basis, and is open to 
both male and female students. No prior 
experience in the martial arts or physical 
conditioning is necessary, and students are 
given basic flexibility exercises to eliminate 
the possibility of muscle pulls.
The course is taught by Curtis Smith, an 
experienced self-defense instructor. Mr. 
Smith has trained police officers in this 
skill, and has conducted a similar course at 
the University of Pittsburgh. Several Pitt 
students who had taken the course have 
been attacked and all were able to success
fully defend themselves.
This self-defense method is based on both
physical and verbal attack, and is aimed 
at allowing the victim to escape bodily 
harm. The moves are easy to learn, and a 
student can become proficient after 6-8 
lessons. Students are also taught to utilize 
objects such as a purse, keys, an umbrella, 
a comb, etc. to help ward off an attacker. 
The moves can be adapted to almost any 
physical situation such as a weak arm, or 
leg, and for those in wheelchairs.
There will also be a demonstration of 
fighting arts from around the world on 
October 12. The show will be presented
by professionals ranging from age 9 to 55. 
and will take place at the Soldiers and Sail
ors Memorial Hall in Oakland. The per
formance begins at 8 PM. Admission is 
$2. This demonstration will give students 
an idea of what can be achieved through 
advanced techniques of self-defense. Tick
ets and more information are available at 
the Skibo Hall Information Desk.
by Bob Gleeson
In this weekly column I will follow the 
major current issues in American Politics. 
By mixing background information, cur
rent progress reports and my own opinions 
1 hope to foster some debate over these 
issues on campus.
I would like to begin by discussing some 
of the background on the SALT II debate 
since, among current issues, this one will 
probably be the first resolved.
Not since Wilson returned home from 
Versailles has the U.S. Senate been so split 
on ratification of a treaty. Negotiations on 
the SALT II Treaty were concluded last
May and President Carter and Brezhnev 
signed the documents in June. President 
Carter forwarded the treaty to the Senate 
for advise and consent that is necessary' 
to legally sign the articles of ratification 
which make the treaty binding in inter
national law.
The Senate Foreign Relations comnittee and the Armed Services Committee 
are now in the middle of hearings to in
vestigate the final details of the treaty. 
Originally, a final vote by the whole 
Senate was expected in October: but the 
issue of Soviet troops in Cuba may delay 
this until late December.
The heart of the SALT II issue is the 
SALT Process. This process is a series 
of actions initiated by the United States 
and the Soviet Union which attempt to 
impose a sense of balance, stability and 
predictability over the superpower stra
tegic nuclear arms race.
The major event in the SALT 
Process was the signing of the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1968 by the 
U.S. and the Soviet Union, and most of the 
rest of the world. In this treaty, the non
nuclear nations of the world promise not
to develop or deploy nuclear weapons 
systems provided that the two superpowers 
could show periodic progress towards con
trolling their own nuclear arms race. To 
achieve this goal, the U.S. and the Soviets 
opened the SALT (Strategic Arms Limita
tion Talks) negotiations in Geneva in 1970. 
Through these talks, each nation hoped to 
steer the arms race into areas in which it 
could first be controlled, then limited, and 
eventually reduced.
These talks produced the SALT I Treaty 
which was ratified under President Nixon 
in 1972. Shortly afterwards the SALT II
talks began. These talks lasted seven long 
years and produced the present treaty, 
which has been called the most carefully 
worded and complex treaty ever negotiated 
between two rivals.
Whether or not this is true, the talks 
themselves certainly were complicated. In 
order to intelligently conduct such vitally 
important negotiations the U.S. compiled 
a special group of men from all branches of 
the Executive Department. Specialists 
representing the State Department, the * 
Department of Defense, the White House, 
the Arms Control and Disarmament 
Agency, the CIA and other divisions were 
brought together to deal with the issue. 
Often times more negotiation and compro
mise went on within the American delega
tion than went on at the bargaining table 
with the Soviets. This internal give and 
take was meant to insure that every alter
native was thoroughly explored before any 
official U.S. bargaining position was de
clared . *
In addition to this Executive Branch in
volvement there was congressional involve
ment. From the beginning, Senators often 
sat in at the bargaining table and con
gressional committees held periodic investi
gations into the progress of the talks. Also, 
key Senators were consulted before every 
major policy decision was made. President 
Carter was especially careful to do this.
The same kind of careful study, debate 
and compromise was also apparent on the * 
side of the Soviets. Russian political and 
military leaders made no secret of their 
arguements over Soviet policy and posi
tions. However, in the end, the two super
powers were able to work out the detailed 
documents which comprise the SALT II 
Treaty.
As I stated above, the heart of the 
SALT issue is this process. Assuming that a 
person is truly in favor of meaningful arms 
control, the issue then becomes a question * 
of whether or not this process of protrac
ted negotiation has resulted in a fair and 
balanced treaty which will insure the 
security of both the United States and the 
Soviet Union while also limiting and ulti
mately reducing the nuclear arms race. This' 
is the test of SALT.
Next Week  some details of the SALT 
II Treaty and a primer on domestic SALT 
policies. , ' -*
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 5740 -1979 
BNAI BRITH HILLEL - JEWISH UNIVERSITY
CENTER
Students and faculty and their Families with Small Children from All 
Pittsburgh Area Campuses are Welcome.
ROSH HASHANAH 
KIDDUSH FOLLOWING MORNING SERVICES
Friday September 21 8 p.m.
Saturday September 22 10 a.m.
Sunday September 23 10 a.m.
KOL NIDRE AND YOM KIPPUR
Kol Nidre Sunday, September 30 7 p.m.
Yom Kippur Monday, October 1 10 a.m.
Afternoon Worship  Neilah  Sounding of Shofar
Worship conducted by Rabbi Joseph H. Levine, Hillel Director 
Assisted by Mr. Steven Kaplan, Cantor
All Services will be held in the auditorium of the Oakland Jewish Com
munity Center which is located at 315 S. Belief eld Avenue (opposite 
Heinz Chapel)
Students are welcome to make arrangements through the Hillel Office 
for Erev Yom Tov dinners, break-the-fast and home hospitality. Please 
call 621-8875 or 621-6500
All those with interests and talents in helping conduct part of tF 1 *rvice, please contact Rabbi Levine.
B nai Brith Hillel is A Beneficiary of the United Jewish Federation of
Greater Pittsburgh
Phys Ed offers self-defense
* f * : *
Curtis Smith demonstrates advanced techniques in Self-defense.
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 5740 -1979 
BNAI BRITH HILLEL - JEWISH UNIVERSITY
CENTER
Students and faculty and their Families with Small Children from All 
Pittsburgh Area Campuses are Welcome.
ROSH HASHANAH 
KIDDUSH FOLLOWING MORNING SERVICES
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Kol Nidre 
Yom Kippur
September 21 
September 22 
September 23
KOL NIDRE AND YOM KIPPUR
Sunday, September 30 
Monday, October 1
8 p.m. 
10 a.m. 
10 a.m.
7 p.m. 
10 a.m.
Afternoon Worship  Neilah  Sounding of Shofar
Worship conducted by Rabbi Joseph H. Levine, Hillel Director 
Assisted by Mr. Steven Kaplan, Cantor
All Services will be held in the auditorium of the Oakland Jewish Com
munity Center which is located at 315 S. Beliefield Avenue (opposite 
Heinz Chapel)
Students are welcome to make arrangements through the Hillel Office 
for Erev Yom Tov dinners, break-the-fast and home hospitality. Please 
call 621-8875 or 621-6500
All those with interests and talents in helping conduct part of tF cer
vice, please contact Rabbi Levine.
B nai B rith Hillel is A Beneficiary of the United Jewish Federation of
Greater Pittsburgh

*
Molly McClosky skates by the "rearranged" street lines on Morewood Avenue.
Politics and Policy
SALT II treaty debated
Photo by Robert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

September 18, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 9
CMU talks about...
The Vali-Dine 
Food Service System
On the whole, I think the new system is better. You can use your card anywhere, 
anytime...You dont feel guilty about skipping a meal..dts worthwhile to have the 
card because of the discount given to contract holders. j
Susannah Gilbard, Technical Theatre ^0
The idiots finally found a way to account for all the money they lose every year.
Tom Hart, Design *81
If it wasnt for the lines and the prices it would be alright. Getting more registers 
would help out alot. Its nice to be able to eat when you want to, where you want 
to and not be penilized for missing meals. Gabe Sabadell, Chemical Engineering *82
Its too expensive.Bennett Fidlow, H&SS 83
The system is worse than last year. Everything is higher priced.
Stewart Mitchell, Electrical Engineering*81
Its got the potential to be a better system, but the lines are too long and the 
food is too expensive. If you tried to eat a full meal with the money they have 
alotted for one, you would starve. Tom Ells, Chemical Engineering 32
1 think were getting ripped off. Were not getting as much as we did on the old 
system ...Weve been eating 2 meals a day instead of 3...I am way below the Vali-Dine 
weekly estimates for my meal plan. Janies Isaac, Electrical Engineering ^1
The little plastic card doesnt taste as good as the real food. C.C. Otto, Design *81
1 dont particularly like the new machines [cash registers]. I think theyre too 
slow. Food Service Cashier
Its costs too much!Sheri Dumire, Chemical Engineering *81
Living together' increases A student's view
If you, like thousands of otherstudents, 
are living with your beloved without ben
efit of marriage, you are in good com
pany. The US Census Bureau reports that, 
over the past decade, the number of such 
couples has more than doubled.
As of 1978, an estimated 1.1 million 
couplesor 2.3 percent of all man-woman 
couples residing in the same household 
co-habitate.
Pennsylvania State University professor 
Graham B. Spanier attributed the popular
ity of cohabitating to parents and society 
becoming less critical as long as it (co-hab
iting) doesnt result in parenthood, and as 
long as those involved are independent 
economically.
Other reasons for the increase, Spanier 
told Associated Press, include the baby
boom generation now in young adulthood, 
and a tendency toward more honest repor
ting on part of those surveyed.
Also, people are apt to delay marriage 
these days, Spanier said. In 1977, the med
ian age at marriage for US males was 24.0 
years and 21.6 years for females, the high
est since World War II.
Spanier also revealed that:
-More than half of the cohabiting cou
ples have been married previously. Of this 
group, 38 percept are under 35 years old; 
30 percent are 35-54; and 32 percent are 
55 or older.
-Cohabiting couples are most likely to 
live in large cities.
-Interracial couples are found in consid
erably greater proportion among co-habiting couples than in married pairs.
CAREERS 1
The Office of Career Services and 
Placement will present a seminar on 
What Makes a Successful Interview? 
to be held on Thursday, September 
27 at 7:30 PM in theWherrett Room 
in Ski bo.
David Bates from United States 
Steel Corporation, Virginia Benfield 
from FMC Corporation, and Daniel 
Poling from Pennsylvania Power and 
Light Company will present their 
views regarding good interviewing 
techniques. Time will be available 
for discussion and questions, The 
program is open to the University 
community and all students are 
urged to attend.
I
I%I$$gsmIII
8$ss%Is
Stg%
Carter's latest blunder
by Bill Kapner
Currently, it seems very easy to jump on 
the bandwagon with those who consistent
ly jeer at the woe ridden Carter administra
tion. In both journalistic and social circles 
it is becoming quite fashionable to point 
out the ineptitude and idiocy of the presi
dent and his circle of advisors. Hence, an
other essay which derides a specific course 
of presidential action might be seen as un
imaginative or even cowardly. However, in 
this particular instance I can not resist the 
opportunity to comment upon the latest 
Carter blunder.
Last Monday Carter granted the prison 
release of four Puerto Rican nationalists. 
One attempted to assasinate President Tru
man in 1950 and the other three wounded 
five congressmen in a shooting attack upon 
the House of Representatives in 1954. Car
ter cited humanitarian considerations as 
the motivation behind the pardon. Howev
er, none of the four nationalists seemed 
particularly grateful for Carters decision. 
The leader of the House attack, Lolita Lebo, stated that the reason for their release 
seemed more along the lines of political 
expediency rather than humane consider
ations. Lebron, the most outspoken and 
intense of the four, proclaimed that vio
lence was definitely not out of the ques
tion in her continued quest for Puerto Ri
can independence. All four stated that they 
were, in fact, proud of their actions and
vowed to fight vehemently for indepen
dence. The four received somewhat of a 
heros welcome upon arriving in New York 
City on Tuesday to address a press confer
ence and a Puerto Rican nationalist rally in 
upper Manhattan. The group flew back to 
San Juan on Wednesday. The White House 
did acknowledge but did not comment on 
the revolutionaries lack of repentance.
Im sure it was not extraordinary per
ceptiveness which Miss Lebrons allegation 
of political expediency. In fact, it seemed 
quite clear from the outset that the release 
was granted primarily to court the signifi
cant number of Puerto Rican voters in this 
country. The attempt seemed to have back
fired, however, as many Puerto Ricans 
both in this country and on the island it
self have expressed their displeasure with 
the release.
Surely, to take a course of action so 
blatently political was a strategic blun
der. Furthermore, the publicity given to 
the nationalists hints at possible violence 
and terrorism may compound the matter 
into a future campaign liability for the 
president.
Editors Note: Bill Kapner's views will be 
featured monthly in the new Dossier 
Magazine.
?????
Finance favorable to women
New York, May 21-- The financial 
professions of accounting, banking and 
stockbrokerage offer the most favorable 
job outlook for women in the next decade, 
according to a report released today.
The report, prepared by the Business 
and Professional Womens Foundation and 
Redbook magazine, cited increased enroll
ment of women in college financial pro
grams as an indication that more and 
more women are responding to the growing 
demand for math proficiency that has 
resulted from computer technology.
In 1971, for example, 165 women were 
graduated from U.S. colleges with a major 
in banking or finance; by 1977, the num
ber has grown to 1275, the report stated. 
Although both men and women will ben
efit from the wide variety of interesting 
and rewarding financial jobs opening up 
in the 1980s, women should have an even 
greater opportunity because they are now 
underrepresented in most of these professions, the report, published in Redbooks current (June) issue, concluded.
Women interested in careers in account
ing were advised to get an advance degree 
and to look for jobs in private industry 
or government. Affirmative action regulat
ions affect private industry and govern
ment more directly than they do public 
accounting firms. A CPA (Certified Public 
Accountant), CMA (Certified Management 
Accountant), or CIA (Certified Internal 
Auditor) is an absolute necessity for 
advancement, especially for women, 
according to Susan Butler, a national 
director of the American Society of Wo
men Accountants.
Women considering entering banking 
were advised to concentrate on those 
institutions that offer on-the-job training, 
and those who desire to become stock
brokers were told to look for jobs with 
large brokerage firms.

---------------------------------------------------

7VIHEW/X W<?MDQ2 I^TWi-b i-S k Di-5CO ij-r&estj
Trivia Question
Why is the hallway in Baker/Porter Hall built 
on a slant?
-Ajoiaej e u; uoiionpoid pads aAeq p|noM Aewqieq 
a>l!l-duiej aqx sauojoej oiui papaAuoa aq 
Ajisea p|noo Aaq) os pauBisap s6u;p|inq aqj. peq 
aq sso| jo* *|asuitq ja/voa 51 japjo U| -op p|noM 
l| ||8aa moq ajns j.usbm aq AiisJaAiuf) e *o eapi aq^ }Q pdAiaouoo aiBaujeQ Majpuy uaq^
Answers to last weeks puzzle:
JJobs w1 MsEur*j_ F F
gau_??ao\ ttiifia \nD0D ?nn//^OQBW / jay iinasa^aaagaa^w sa 
giBvva^aBDBGaa^L //.aanaz/aminnax joona^i n .rinn ovannn.j kinrm aa/\ liinaunnnn kjaniin^ kin/ \\// ^/an^ia^/axvoaBBai i^iniij vana / onn kinnrarinnri^rivu? eia/ anni/
V 'RiEaHPi^sV>aBBan rinnnnnmnipinnn
Spring Carnival doesn't 
happen without organiza
tion. And organization 
doesn't happen without a 
chairperson. And the job 
starts soon. Make your 
mark at CMU. Contact Scott 
Sibley at 683-6039 or Scott
Miller at 687-0946.
50% OFF TOLKIEN 
ARGUS POSTERS 
ONE FREE WITH FOUR 
ALL OTHER POSTERS 
20% OFF 
SALE ENDS SEPT. 22 
LOGOS BOOKSTORE 
DOWNTOWN AT 
359 FIFTH AVE. 
765-3300
Page 10-1AR I AN-September 18,1979
GUIDO GAI10NZ0-WTOWA^^t"
Tom Hart stands in front of his 20 x 40 foot mural, painted this summer.
I wish they would < 
should <theyI think 
Why don't they. 
My idea is..."
Complete one or all of these phrases in as 
many words as you tike and tell us your 
thoughts, dreams, ideas, schemes, etc., for 
using the Margaret Morrison Apartment Store 
Fronts.
Why not send us a sketch, a drawing, a 
diagram or a photograph of something you 
have seen elsewhere?
We really want to hear from everyone who 
has an idea.
Send your response to:
"Store Fronts"
Auxiliary Services 
WH301
Drop your response in the "Store Fronts" Box 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
Student designs mural
by Susan Borg
Whether you are an old timer here at 
CMU or you are a new freshman, it is hard 
to miss the new brightly-colored mural on 
the wall in the Skibo lobby. Tom Hart, a 
junior in the Design department, con 
ceived the idea in his Design Principles class 
and was commissioned by the University to 
reproduce it on the wall.
Hart and his assistant Andrea Elder, a 
student at Moore College of Art in Phila
delphia, worked on scaffolds for more than 
a month to complete the mural that stands 
twenty feet high and forty feet long. Al
though a large part of the work was done 
twenty feet in the air, it was rare to see 
Tom on the scaffold. He said that he wan
ted to concentrate on the lettering while 
Andrea painted the stripes; but he finally 
admitted that he was more than a little
nervous on the shaky platform. I wanted 
be around when the mural was done, he
added.
Tom was originally a graphic design ma
jor at Kent State University. I underes
timated myself at first, he said. I didnt 
think I could get into CMU, so I never ap
plied. After a year at Kent State, Tom 
realized that he had a lot of potential and 
he wanted to give it his best shot at CMU. 
The Design department here is much 
more professional, he commented.
Tom has been working on the TARTAN 
since he arrived at CMU. He has done many 
cartoons and was the Art Director of Folio 
last semester. He is now acting as Art Di
rector of the new monthly magazine.
All the extra hours that he spends wor
king at the newspaper count as experience 
that will help him in the real world after 
graduation. Although Tom has no definite 
plans for a career yet, his major interests 
include cartooning, illustration and movie
making.

---------------------------------------------------

September 18, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 11
NAVY OFFICER. YOU GET RESPONSIBII YOU GET THE STRIPES.
NAVY QPPORTUNITY B72S
INFORMATION CENTER
P.O. Box 2000, Pelham Manor, N.Y. 10803
? Send me information on Career Opportunities in the Navy (0G).
The deadline for Miss Varsity 
entries is today at 2:00 PM. NRC offers research associateships
to non-United States nationals.
Over 200 new awards will be offered 
on a competitive basis in 1980. The basic 
annual stipend (subject to income tax) will 
be $18,000 for recent recipients of the 
doctorate. Higher stipends will be deter
mined for senior awardees. Awards will 
include relocation allowances and limited 
support for professional travel during 
tenure. Awards will generally be for one 
year periods. Senior applicants may 
request shorter tenures.
Applications to the NRC must be post
marked by January 15, 1980. Awards will 
be announced in April.
Application materials and detailed in
formation about specific opportunities for 
research and the federal laboratories which 
participate should be requested promptly 
from the Associateship Office, JH 608-D1, 
National Research Council, 2101 Consti
services, leases, and school systems are 
available. Current office hours are Tues., 
Wed., Fri., 94:30, Thurs.,12-4:30, Sat., 
10-1, Mon..closed.
To handle the continuing number of 
people seeking housing, the office is 
constantly in need of new listings of 
available situations. These could include 
apartments, houses, rooms, roommate 
hares, or room and board in exchange 
for work. Particularly in demand is close to 
campus, short term housing for students, 
faculty or researchers who will be on 
campus for one semester or less. If you 
could be of help in any of these situations 
or know of any available housing please 
contact Off-Campus Housing.
The National Research Council has 
announced its 1980 Research Associateship 
Programs which provide postdoctoral op
portunities for scientists and engineers in 
the fields of:
Atmospheric and Earth Sciences 
Chemistry 
? Engineering
Environmental Sciences 
Life Sciences 
Mathematics 
Physics
Space Sciences
NRC Research Associates will conduct 
research laboratories at various geographic 
locations in the United States. The pro
grams are open to recent recipients of the 
doctorate and, in many cases, to senior 
investigators also. Some programs are open
tution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 
20418, telephone (202) 389-6554.
Off-campus 
housing assists
The Off-Campus Housing Office is in 
operation to advise and assist in providing 
housing for members of the University 
community. The office offers its services 
to undergraduates, graduate students, staff 
and faculty. Anyone needing housing 
should call or stop by.
The office is located in Skibo 56, exten
sion 3520 or 3605, under the direction of 
Bobbie Dillon, Off-Campus Housing 
Adviser. It maintains files on rooms, apart
ments, and house for rent or sale in the 
area. Also included is a roommate lisitng. 
Details on transportation, community

---------------------------------------------------

an our 
bllitiesj
Where your career goes in the future ms a lot to ; 
do with where it begins right now. So if you start out 
Bank of America, you're already way ahead of the game.
It isnt a game at all, of course. Its your future 
and we take it as seriously as you do.
Ever since we began doing business in 1904, weve 
sought out progressive bankers with innovative ideas. 
And in only seventy-five years, weve turned those ideas 
into more than $80 billion in assets. And over a thou
sand retail branches in California. Plus an international 
operation that contributes substantially to our earnings.
At Bank of America were always looking for 
MBAs with something special to offer. Because we have 
something special to offer in return.
Like a whole world of opportunities in our World 
Banking division. The chance to have a real impact
BANK
An E<ty Employer
nia operation. Or a host of other possimore specialized departments. 
fer your position, youll be learning from 
he business. And making the most of what 
know.
hsider a career with Bank of America. Because 
start at the top, theres no stopping you.
jllfrange for an interview, contact: Angie Sagastume, 
Management Recruitment Dept. #3616, Bank of America 
World Headquarters, P.O. Box 37000, San Francisco,
r Gloria Myklebust, Management Recruitment Dept. 
#4616, Box A, So. California Headquarters, P.O. Box 3609, 
Terminal Annex, Los Angeles, CA 90051.
Or Connie Colladay, Management Recruitment Dept., 
of America, 299 Park Ave., New York, NY 10017.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Exciting season planned for Public Theater
John Going, one of the nation's most acclaimed 
theater talents, will direct the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater's production of MISTER ROBERTS 
opening September 26.
Bold new American plays, master
pieces of world theater and an Amer
ican classic will comprise the Pittsburgh
Public Theaters Fifth Anniversary Season, 
which will open on September 26 and 
continue through May 18, 1980.
General director Ben Shaktman an
nounced that the classic American comedy 
Mister Robers by Thomas Heggan and 
Joshua Logan will open the most exten
sive season in the Public Theaters his
tory. This 1948 play pays tribute to the 
patriotic spirit of one sailor aboard a cargo 
ship during World War II, while captur
ing the hilarious and ribald experiences 
of Navy life. After a long run on Broad
way, Mister Roberts became a popular 
motion picture, starring Henry Fonda in 
the title role, and Jack Lemmon as Ensign 
Pulver. Rarely seen in regional theater, 
the Publics production constitutes a
Ticket exchange planned
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra has 
established two new ticket policies for the 
convenience of its subscribers. A new Tick
et Exchange Policy enables subscribers to 
exchange their tickets for concerts they 
cannot attend for other performances 
during the week. Subscribers may exchange 
their tickets by simply returning them in 
the mail or in person to the Heinz Hall 
Box Office no later than 24 hours before 
the first concert of that week. When tick
ets are mailed, subscribers should indicate 
their desired alternate concert date. Al
though the Symphony cannot guarantee 
that an exchange will always be possible, 
every effort will be made to honor the 
request, and subscribers will be notified 
in advance if their request cannot be ac
commodated.
WKCT features 'Big Band Era'
by A. G. Miller
Where were you in 1942? If youre a 
student, you probably werent around. But 
1942 was a hectic and exciting year. Our 
boys were overseas fighting for our coun
try, Franklin Roosevelt was in office and a 
craze was in the midst of sweeping the na
tion. In the 70s you have disco; the 60s 
folkrock; the 50s , rock and-roll and in the 
40s, you had swing.
Big Bands were entertaining millions of 
people everyday. Servicemen listened to 
the hip sounds of swing all over the world; 
youngsters waited in line all night for per
formances; and elders thought the music 
was corrupting young minds. Glenn Miller, 
Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman, Les 
Brown, Artie Shaw and many more were 
common names of the time. Swing was 
heard on the radio 24 hours per day, and 
the musicians were touring the country 
continuously.
There is a program on WRCT ( CMUs 
student-run, free-form, non-commercial 
broadcasting station) that spotlights these 
famous sounds of the 1940s. Big Band jazz 
can be heard every Tuesday beginning at 6 
PM on the Make Believe Ballroom, 
hosted by George Gee. He explains, I 
dont play the Top 40, but the top from 
the 40s.
Make Believe Ballroom, one of only 
two radio shows that features Big Band
major revival of this classic American 
play. Like all mainstage productions in 
the 1979-1980 season, Mister Roberts will 
perform an expanded six-and-one-half 
week schedule, playing through Nov
ember 4.
The second production of the Publics 
Fifth Anniversary Season will be Anton 
Cheknovs The Seagull the comedy that 
established Chekhov as a theatrical giant. 
The Seagull written in 1895 balances 
somber family drama with farcical romance 
in a poweful story of jealousy and heart
break.
On January 2, 1980, Joe Ortons 
Loot will open with its own bizzare brand 
of humor. Written in 1976, Loot estab
lished Orton as the master farceur of his 
age, and the greatest writer of English stage 
comedy since Oscar Wilde. Loot laughs
irreverently at death and dying, law and 
order, love and loving, and uses the morals 
of the English middle-class as a comical 
punching bag. Loot will run through
February 10.
As its fourth production of the 1979- 
1980 season, Pittsburgh Public Theater 
will present either The Screening Room or 
Buried Child, to be performed at the Public 
from February 20 through March 30.
After a two-season absence, one of 
Shakespeares plays will be the finale to 
the 1979-1980 Fifth Anniversary Season. 
It will be selected from among the follow
ing. Hamlet, McBeth , The Taming of the 
Shrew, A Midsummers Night Dream, 
Troilus and Cressida, Two Gentlemen of 
Verona and Juluis Ceasar. This final 
production of the Publics Fifth Anniver
sary Season will open on April 9 and run 
through May 18.
Season subscriptions are now on sale for 
guaranteed seats to all five plays in the 
Public Theaters 1979-1980 season. For 
subscription information, call 765-3500. 
Season tickets may be charged over the 
phone to all major credit cards and depart
ment store accounts.
In addition, a Tax Credit/Ticket Turn
back System has been established. If you 
cannot attend a concert all you have to do 
is call 281-5000 with the seat location that 
you will not be using. You will receive a 
tax credit equal to the resale price of the 
tickets if you notify the Box Office no 
later than 24 hours before the performance 
time printed on the tickets. With less than 
24 hours notice, the Symphony is able to 
process tax credits only if the tickets are 
resold.
These two new policies should make 
concertgoing easier and more convenient 
than ever. And, on those occasions when 
you are not able to attend concerts for 
which you hold tickets, these new policies 
give you the opportunity to either ex
change or return your tickets.
Page takes on new positon
sounds in western Pennsylvania, is a live 
broadcast. The studio orchestra is direct
ed by Glenn Miller, the winner of the 
George Gees Make Believe Ballroom 
popularity poll. He achieves a nostalgic 
feeling by a method of mixing background 
music, applause, etc. Gee concluded that, 
Swing is a music form that everyone has a 
love for, but is not exposed to. Listen to 
the Make Believe Ballroom tonight at 6 
PM on WRCT-FM 88.3 MHz - maybe 
youll hear your favorite 40s hit.
The Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh 
has appointed Dr. Robert Page as Music 
Advisor and Mr. James Meena as its 
conductor for the 1979-80 season. Because 
of his many commitments, Page, who is head 
of the Music Department at CMU will 
serve in planning, organizing and making 
long-range plans for the Choir. He will 
also conduct the Choir in perfomance 
from time to time as his schedule permits. 
Mr. Meena will conduct all auditions and 
rehearsals, as well as most of the Choir*s 
performances during the coming season.
Page has recently completed his eighth 
season as Director of the Cleveland Orch
estra Choruses. For seven seasons, he 
served as Director of the Blossom Fes
tival Chorus in Kent, Ohio. He is a mem
ber of the National Music Advisory Board 
of the National Endowment for the Arts 
and the Pennsylvania Council for the 
Arts. Page is regarded as one of the most 
distinguished choral conductors in the 
country.
James Meena, in addition to his duties 
as Conductor of the Mendelssohn Choir, 
is currently Chorus Master and Music 
Administrator with Pittsburgh Opera, Inc., 
and recently;was named Music Director 
and Conductor for the McKeesport 
Symphony Orchestra. During the past 
summer months, he was Director and
Dr. Robert Page is now the Music Advisor for the 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh.
Conductor of the Opera in the Parks 
series presented by the Department of City 
Parks and Recreation and Pittsburgh 
Opera. Mr. Meena received his Master of 
Fine Arts degree in conducting from CMU 
where he is a part-time faculty member 
in the voice department. He has also 
served as Music Director for Pittsburgh 
Public Theatre.
Breakfast Of Champions recorded on Caedmon
The fourth recording of original works 
by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., on the Caedmon 
label is included on the new list of spokenword recordings just released.
In Breakfast of Champions (Caedmon; 
TCI602), Vonnegut tells the tale of Kil
gore Trout, a struggling journeyman 
science fiction writer. As with all of Vonneguts writings, nothing is sacred in Break
fast of Champions. He treats sex like 
plumbing and plumbing like sex. Few, if 
any, sacred cows are left untouched by the 
authors now-familiar irreverent style of 
humor.
The liner notes for the recording were 
written by Vonneguts friend and the per
son from whom Kilgore Trout was de
rived-science fiction author, Theodore 
Sturgeon. Sturgeon summarizes Vonneguts 
writing like this:
Breakfast of Champions consists of the 
intertwined; experiences of a Midland City 
car dealer named Dwayne Hoover and 
those of the. aforementioned Trout, toge
ther with the interactions with and at subsidary persons and places such as Bonnie 
MacMahoni a cocktail waitress; Rabo Karabekian, & modern painter who knows 
rather more than can be expected about his 
own work; suicidal females; twins; run
away polymers; a paroled and therefore 
disoriented convict; an art festival; caverns; 
.an outpost of the Mafia; Kurt Vonnegut, 
Jr.; Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.s brothers dog,
and many other things, people, and unex
pected conclusions, like that of a man I 
know who in order to confound a coroner 
whom he hated committed suicide by in
jecting his own veins with instant mashed 
potatoes.
Another recently, released recorded 
work is Cry, the Beloved Country. It is one 
of the literary landmarks of our time and 
one of the few works to accurately depict 
the tragedy of apartheid in South Africa 
and is recorded by the man who wrote it 
more than thirty years ago, Alan Paton.
Cry, the Beloved Country (Caedr>on; 
TCI605) has been called an exceptional 
work that truly speaks to the whole 
continued on page 14
Next issue: Review of The Who at Madison Square Garden

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14TARTANSeptember 18, 1979
phone call
Most.students play by the r 
1 jPF when placing a long dista
call They take advantage r *  ^ ; w rrrrin rrrf^ rrnd mrrke their
Most students play by the rules 
when placing a long distance 
call. They take advantage oi bar
gain rates and make their calls 
during the discount periods. Ii 
you're not sure when you can call 
at discount rates, check your 
phone book.
A iew students think it's O.K. to 
break the rules by stealing their 
telephone calls. They're not beat
ing the system, they're taking 
advantage of all oi us, because it 
drives up the cost oi providing 
telephone service. 7
Students who break the rules also 
run the risk of paying a large fine. 
Spending time in jail. And getting 
themselves a permanent police 
record.
It's just not worth it!
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania
Books now on record Symphony publishes'Previews'
continued from page 13
world. This special abridgement offers 
Paton the opportunity to deliver his own 
emotional prose-poetry about the land 
and the people of his native South Africa.
Ever since Paton stood up publicly in 
the late Forties in race-obsessed South 
Africa to proclaim equality among the 
races, he has been exposed to political and 
physical threats. His stand came at a time 
when the apartheid laws were just being 
introduced and caused most of his fellowwhites to regard him as a traitor to the 
white race.
In the liner notes, Donald Woods, the 
exiled South African editor who escaped 
in 1978 after being banned by the govern 
ment for raising a national outcry over the 
killing of his friend, Steve Biko, by security 
police, writes of Pa tons deep sadness over
the developing tragedy in South Africa.
Says Woods, He has devoted his life to 
warning his white countrymen, and now in 
his old age, he perceives that they will not 
heed his warning. And more-that their fate 
is no longer in their own hands, being more 
likely now to be determined by the wide
spread anger of young blacks. Paton said it 
all so truly so long ago-he feared that by 
the time the whites had turned to loving, 
the blacks would have turned to hating. 
Today, the blacks have turned to hating 
even before the whites turned to loving. 
Hate versus love is bad enough; but hate 
versus hate is the final tragedy.
These recordings are available on Caed
mon records and cassettes at book and re
cord shops nationwide.
To give Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Previews talks about the music and 
subscnoers a hint oi what theyre going to musicians scheduled for Pittsburgh Symhear, Previews has been created. The publiphony concerts. It is hoped that this publi
cation ( which is made possible by a gift cation will enhance the concert-going exfrom Mellon Bank) will come out six times perience for all Symphony fans, 
during the Symphony season.Be a WRITER 
For the TARTAN
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend,
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing.
Evening Hours Available

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN meetings this week: 
Tuesday 7PM SKIBO 50 
News, Entertainment and 
Photography staffs
Wednesday 7 PM 
Campus Organizations 
Meet in SKIBO Rm 11
ATTENTION 
WORK-STUDY STUDENTS
CLERICAL POSITIONS AVAILABLE
IN
PHYSICAL PLANT
 TYPING  LIGHT BOOKKEEPING
 FILING  ANSWERING PHONES
$3.20/HOUR 
CONTACT ARLENE STRICK X2919
Film: To
All students, faculty, alumni 
and staff of CMU are 
welcome. Meet with us.
Tech Flying Club 
Wednesday 
September 19 
7:30 pm 
Skibo Room 45
H & SS STUDENTS
THE FIRST SAC MEETING WILL TAKE 
PLACE ON 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 20 
IN THE H&SS LOUNGE
(BH2540)
AT 4:00 pm 
EVERYONE IN H&SS IS ENCOURAGED 
& INVITED TO ATTEND

---------------------------------------------------

S
CO HIILt An Illustrated History of Germany
om Bismarck to Hltlar. By Stefan Lorant. Over 700 
Photos and lllus. Fascinating re-creation of the tur
bulent rise and fall of Nazi Germany, packed wih hun
dreds of dramatic photos, many never published 
before, tncl. Fronco-Prussian War, World War I, 
Weimar Republic, sexual permissiveness in the '20's 
and "30's, Gtterdmmerung, thousand-year Reich, 
concentration camps. Goring, Goebbels, Hess, Him
mler, Mussolini, etc. 9#x 12'/*.
Special Valua Only $12.9
ASIMOV ON ASTRONOMY. Over 30 Photos and 
lllus. Fascinating vol. explores the wonders and 
mysteries of the earth, the solar system and the en
dless star s beyond. Incl. possibility of extraterrestrial 
life, supernovas, oge of the universe, more. Orig. Pub. 
at $8.95
New, complete ed. Only $3.98
THE ANDREW LANG FAIRY TALE TREASURY. 200
lllus. by Lancelot Speed, Henry Ford, others. Delight
fully enchanting collection of over 50 tales culled from 
the renowned Andrew Lang anthologies. Incl. tales 
from France, Germany, Russia, Scandinavia and other 
lands, more.
Special only $4.98
PRIZE SLOOPERS. By Kermit Schafer. 35 lllus. by 
Doug Anderson. Hundreds of the most hilarious, uncensored boners from radio and TV. This new, often 
bawdy, collection of errors and mistakes will leave 
you chuckling for days.
Only $2.98
THE WORK OF FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT. Tha Great 
Wendigen Edition. Introd. by Mrs. F. L. Wright. 200 
Photos, Drawings ft Plans. Magnificent volume, mirror 
of the creative genius of the greatest architecture of 
our century with splendid reproductions of the 
originality and variety of his work. 13 x 13%. Orig. 
Pub. at $42.50
New, complete ed. Only $ 14.98
NEW YORK. By T. Page. Approx. 125 Full Color 
Photos. Exciting photos capture the thrilling pace of 
the world's most energetic city, while a fact-filled text 
teems with unexpected info, on its countless places of 
interest. 8*/ x 10.
Only $3.98
Fashion History: MIRROR. MIRROR. By M. and A.
Batterberry. Over 700 Photos and lllus.. Many in Full 
Color. Charming and authoritative look at fashion 
from the legendary figleav to the "great masquerade 
of the 1960's and the eclecticism of the present." This 
sharp and amusing analysis exposes the human 
foibles found in every civilization and incl. fascinating 
profiles of fashion arbiters, incl. Nefertiti, Empress 
theodora, Elizabeth I, Louis XIV, Marie Antoinette, 
Beau Brummel, Duchess of Windsor, Jackie Onassis, 
Chonel, Dior, St. Laurent, more. 400 pages. 9'/j x 
12%. Pub. ot $29.95
Only $15.93
THE NEW WEBSTER ENCYCLOPEDIC DICTIONARY 
OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Including a Dic
tionary of Synonyms and 12 supplementary" 
reference sections: Popular Quotations, Classical 
Mythology, Business Law ft Finance, Names, The Story 
of Ameica in332 Pictures, 211 Flogs in Color, 
Biographies of the Presidents with their pictures in 
color. Space Age Terms with 15 plates in color. More 
than 1400 pages, large format. 8M x 11 VS, 2VS inches 
thick, weighs over 5 lbs. Handsome leatherlike bin
ding with simulated gold stamping and edges, head 
and footSands. Pub. at $39.95.
Only $12.98
Cocktails: THE SAVOY COCKTAIL
BOOK. #y Horry Craddock of the Savoy Hotel, Lon
don. 96 'Full Color lllus. First published during 
Prohibition, this is a most comprehensive and easy-touse guide to over 1,000 popular and unusual mixed 
drinks. This updated edition contains the original full 
color Art Deco illus. 5 x 7Vi. Pub. at $6.95
Only $3.98
TURNING THE TABLES ON LAS VEGAS. By I. An
derson. Revolutionary new ystem for the casino gam
bler puts the casino personnel on your sie! A proven 
strategy lor consistent results. Pu. at $10.00
Only $1.49
THE ART OF WALT DISNEY: From Mickey Mouse to 
the Magi Kingdoms. By C. Finch. 251 lllus., 170 in 
Full Color. Lavish presentation of sketches, drawings, 
photos, as well as an authoritative text traces the en
tire history of the Disney studio. From the first Mickey 
Mouse cartoon through animated features such as 
Snow White and Fentesia to live action features 
like Mary Popplns. culminating in the elaborate fontasies of Meneyland and Welt Disney World. 9 x 
11% Pub. of $15.95
Only $4.98
THE UNCOLLECTED WODEHOUSE P.G. Wodehouse. 
Seabury, 8.95. A treasure of previously uncollected 
Wodehouse articles ft stories, including the only 
mystery he ever wrote, the first of his many articles 
for Punch, a spoof of the advertising world, one of the 
few Reggie Pepper stories ft many other collector's 
delights. Edited ft introduced by David Jasen, 
Wodehouse's official biographer ft the foremost 
authority on his life ft work. Foreword by M. 
Muggeridge.
1.98
FRESHWATER Virginia Woolf HBJ. 6.95. A hilarious 
farce about Virginia's great-aunt, the photographer 
Julia Margaret Cameron, and some goings-on at the 
Camerons' artist colony on the Isle of Wight in the 
1870s, other characters being Tennyson ft Queen Vic
toria. First written in 1923 ft revised for performance 
at Vanessa Bell's London studio in 1935, Freshwater 
was performed for a select audience by a cast that in
cluded many of the well known Bloomsberries in what 
Virginia referred to in her diary as an "unbuttoned 
laughing evening." This is the first published edition ft 
contains the two typescript versions discovered 
among Leonard Woolf's papers after he died in 1969.
1.98
HAND BOOKBINDING. By A. A. Watson. 225 lllus. 
Step-by-step instructions with exceptionally clear pic
tures showing the techniques of fine binding, incl. 
folding, sewing, covers, labels and more for simple 
folios to heavy volumes. Orig. Pub. at $6.50
New, complete ed. Only $4.98
EUROPEAN VIEWS: A CALENDAR FOR 1980. Sum
ptuously reproduced full color photos present sun 
drenched views of Europe's most scenic cities and lan
dscapes, from Paris in the Spring to the snows of the 
Alpine winter. Large format provides ample space for 
reminders, appointments, etc. 12 x 12.
Special Value Only $2.98
CATS: A CALENDAR FOR 1980. Heartwarmin full 
color photos capture cats and kittens in all their 
various moods, from alert and playful to mysterious 
and aloof. Large format provides ample space for 
reminders, appointments, etc. 12 x 12. Softbound.
Special Value Only $2.98
DOGS: A CALENDAR FOR 1980. Stunning full color 
photos of beagles, St. Bernards, poodles, dalmations, 
and other pedigree dogs enhance this roomy, largeformat calendar. 12 x 12. Softbound.
Special Value Only $2.98
THE COMPLETE BOOK OF FRUITS AND 
VEGETABLES. By F. Bianchini ft F. Corbetta. 110 Full 
Color Plates by M. Pistoria. Eachh ready for framing, 
virtually every plant man uses for food is covered in 
both breathtaking illus. and informative text. The 
plates may well be the most magnificent ever created 
in the field. 8 x 11 */*. Pub. at $25.00
Only $14.98
FREDERIC REMINGTON. By P. Hassrick. 73 lllus., incl. 
56 Full Color Plates. Vivid compilation of paintings, 
illus. and sculpture by this premier artist of the 
American Westfrom his magnificent panoromas of 
the prairies to his intimately revealing portraits of 
cowboys, Indians, trappers, calvary soldiers, etc. Incl. 
a concise biography and lucid descriptions of 
Remington's work. 8 Vi x 11.
Special Only $4.98.
GRAY'S ANATOMY: The Classic Color Collector's 
Edition. 780 Detailed lllus. and Diagrams, incl. 172 
Color Plates. This landmark 1901 edition of one of 
the greatest reference wrks of all time is a must for 
physicians, students artists, and the medically 
curious. The 1248 page text is teeming with 
fascinating information. New intro., quality printing, 
handsome binding, and a fantastic low price.
Only $7.98
BRIDGES, CANALS ft TUNNELS: The Engineering 
Conquest of America. By D. Jocobs and A.E. 
Neville. Over 100 Photos and lllus. many in Full Color. 
History of the astounding progress America has 
made. Incl. detailed principles of engineering. Ages 
12 and up. Pub. at $5.00.
Only $1.49
THE CLEWISTON TEST Kate Wilhelm. FSG. 8.95 A 
psychological thriller ft fascinating view into the 
world of scientific research make up this fine novel by 
the author of The Infinity Box. amply displaying her 
obility to create subtly delineated ft memorable 
characters.
1.49
DOORWAYS IN THE SAND Roger Zelanzny. Harper
8.95 The loss of an alien art treasure becomes an in
terplanetary crisis in this deft ft witty novel.
1.49
FLOWERS IN DESIGN. By S. Marein. Over 300 
Photos, lllus. and Diagrams, 31 in Full Color. 
Fascinating book draws on the art of all periods and 
cultures to show how floral forms have been in
terpreted in a multitude of ways, with hundreds of 
ideas for creating new workable designs on floral 
themes for any fiber or fabric craft. 8/ x 11. Pub. at 
$15.95
Only $5.98
LEGENDS FROM THE END OF TIME Michael Moor
cock, H&R, 7.95 Three legends of hedonistic im
mortals who dwell at the End of Time, providing the 
outlandish high comedy of Moorcock at his best.
1.98
AMERICAN MUSIC SINCE 1910 Virgil Thompson. 
Holt, paper 2.95 One of America's outstanding com
posers (winner of a Pulitzer Prize) and music 
critics(best known for his years at the NY Herald 
Tribune) appraises the development of American 
composers in a volume designed for the general 
reader ft music lover, illustrated with some wonderful 
photos from private sources, the first half of the book 
contains major essays on composers such as Ives, 
Ruggles, Varese ft Copland; the second half contains 
106 short biographies of American composers of this 
century. Introduction by N. Nabokov.1.00
THE DYNOSTAR MENACE. K Pedlar ft G. Davis. Scrib.
7.95 A gripping novel about energy sources, by the 
author of Mutant 59 and Bralnrack, and the creators 
of the British TV series, Doomwatch.
1.49
MA CUISINE. By Auguste Escoffier. Foreword by An
dre L. Simon. First published in 1934 by the 
distinguished master chef Escoffier, this grand book 
of the fine art of French cooking quickly became the 
standard work for chefs, gourmets, restauranteurs 
and homemakers world-wide. Clearly and exquisitely 
written, it's back in English print again, filled with 
classic recipes, from sauces to delectable sweets. Leg 
of' Lamb Normandy Style, Pressed Rouen Duckling, 
Chocolate Souffle, and much, much more-1- for 
serious cooks who want French food perfection. (6" x 
8Vi"). Illustrated. (884 pp.). Pub. at $12.50.
Only $4.98
DOWN THE COLORADO: Diary of the First Trip 
Through the Grand Canyon. Photographs & 
Epilogue by Eliot Porter. Contains John Wesley 
Powell s dramatic journal of 1869 when ten men in 
four boats swept down the raging Colorado River, 
over rapids considered impassable, to chart the unex
plored river and its surrounding canyons. Includes a 
48-page gallery of four-color photographs by 
America's foremost photographer of natures. 10%" x 
14%". (10" x 14 "). Pub. at $30.00
Only $14.98
ENCYCLOPEDIA OF BLACK FOLKLORE AND 
HUMOR. Compiled and edited by Henry D. 
Spaulding. From the hundreds of humorous anec
dotes, biographies, and historical notiations in this 
book, a pattern unfolds, revealing a new sociallyminded black American, emerged from a one-time 
submerged plantation slave. This extensive collection 
of fables, tales, music, and down-home recipes 
demonstrates the close relationship between folklore 
and orthodox history. Includes a detailed bibliography 
and index. (6" x 9'). Pub. at $14.95.
Only $.98
ANATOMY OF THE AUTOMOBILE. By Donald 
Clarke. How cars are built and what makes them run. 
A thorough text, along with hundreds of photographs 
and illustrations, tells readers all they ever wanted to 
know about the automobile.
Only $8.98
HUMAN ANATOMY FOR THE ARTIST. By J. Fitz
patrick. 180 lllus., Many in Full Color. A book of 
lasting value for art students and anyone interested in 
art. Clear, authoritative intro, to artistic anatomy, 
illus. with specially commissioned drawings and 
reproductions of masterpieces. Incl. structural 
analysis of bones and muscles of the human body, 
male and female figures ot rest and in motion, com
parison of these models with the nude studies of great 
artists, more. 9 x 12. $ 12.98 Value.
Special Only $7.98
EVERYONE'S ULTIMATE ANYTHING BOOK. Its Per
sonalized. 270 enclosed gold gilt transfer letters 
enable you to:  Design your own cover  Create 
your own title  Imprint your own name. They're easy 
to use-just follow the instructions provided. Anything 
Books contains 192 blank pages on which to write 
your own: Stories: Diaries; Doodles; Poems; Recipes; 
Journals; Plays; Sketches; Anythings.
Only $2.98 each
THE COMPLETE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF ILLUSTRATION.
By J.G. Heck. 11,725 Detailed lllus. Extraordinarily 
comprehensive volume packed with gorgeous steel 
engravings and explanatory captaions will delight ar
tists, illustrators, researchers or anyone looking for 
copyright free, reproducible material, as well as 
those interested in 19th century artwork and lovers of 
fine books. Arranged by subject incl. astronomy, 
mathematics, history, architecture, fine arts, military 
sciences, mythology, etc. These breathtaking illus., 
are exquisitely precise, scientifically accurate and 
aesthetically beautiful. Exquisite reprint of class 1851 
edition. Over 500 pages. 12x9. Pub. at $60.00
Extraordinary Value-Only $15.95
IMPRESSIONISM. By the Editors of Realities 
Preface by Rene Huyghe. Collection if Impressionistic 
art that captures the fervor the revolutionary painters 
as they tumbled the bastion of academicism. Eight 
chapters of excellent text explores the social, cultural 
ft political background of France; illustrates the 
protagonists of the events described in the works of 
hundreds of classicists reproduced in color. Index of 
painters; Bibliography, List of illustrations. lOVi x 12 
page size. Originally $35.00.
Sale $22.98
DALI. By Luis Romero. A distinguished volume on the 
life and works of one of the most inventive and 
provocative painters of our time. It contains the life 
work of the master faithfully reproduced in beautiful 
color prints including a food representation of his 
most recent work. The author, Luis Romero, wellknown Spanish historian and long-time friend of the 
painter uses his ability for painstaking honest resear
ch to present here a portrait of the painter, writer, 
aristocrat, showman, originator of Surrealism and 
HyperRealism, the master craftsman and complex 
personality that is Dali. In this definitive work Dali 
comes alive as a complex genius whose creative out
put is almost unrivaled in our time. Hundreds of color 
plates.
Special $24.98
THE GOURMET CHINESE REGIONAL COOKBOOK.
By Calvin Lee ft Audrey Lee. 300 authentic recipes + 
the treasures of Chinese cuisine + plus menus, in
formation on utensils, shopping hints, ft cooking uten
sils provides authentic dishes from China's four 
main regions (Shanghai, Peking, Szechwan. Canton), 
each region's distinctiveness analyzed ft the social ft 
historical forces that have molded it described. 
General index; Recipe Index. 322 pages; 5% x 9 page 
size. Originally $10.95.
Sale $3.98
THE CHAS. ADDAMS MOTHER GOOSE. Mother 
Goose with a difference. Here Addams, master NEW 
YORKER cartoonist and block-humor prankster par ex
cellence throws tradition to the winds and transforms 
those endearing Mother Goose characters into 
gleefully wicked, outrageous beings. Read about the 
farmer's wife seen sullenly cutting off the tails of 
those three blind mice with an electric knife, or Miss 
Muffet scared half out of her mind by the moun
tainous leering grotesqueness of that big spider who 
sat down beside her. A book of zany wit and candor 
for children of all ages, (soft cover) over 40 
illustrations, many in color. 8% x 12 page size. 
Originally $3.95.
Sale $1.49
UNCONVENTIONAL BUILDERS. By Alan Van Dine. 
These 17 narratives of unusual building schemes 
describe one construction surprise after another, 
delighting precisely in examples of structural design 
that cant be reduced to principles of an architecture 
class + from the Tower of Babel and the Great Wall of 
China to igloos and log cabins, the works of 
Christopher Wren, Louis XIV and even clever birds. 
Illustrated throughout with photographs and 
drawings. Measures 12%" x 10%". Orig. Pub. at 
$19.95.
Only $5.98
THE SCRIBNER-BANTAM ENGLISH DICTIONARY.
The 80,000 entries of this dictionary cover the full 
range of words used in contemporary vocabularies, 
including new owrds not found in other dictionaries. 
Clear, commonsense, and up-to-date, the high-quality 
definitions are based on modern day American 
English usage, and were compiled under the aegis of 
Edwin B. Williams, one of the world's great 
lexicographers, the special feature of large, readable 
type, along with its open, highly legible format and 
compact size, make this dictionary unusually easy to 
use.With Thumb Index. Orig. Pub. at $9.95.
Only $5.98
LOOKING GOOD. A Guide for Men. By Charles 
Hix. This definitive, heod-to-toe, shampoo-to-pedicure 
guide sets out the principles of good grooming for 
men. A sensible self-care program for hair, face, 
body, hands and feet includes hints on every aspect of 
looking good. Mail-order suppliers of men's grooming 
products are listed in an appendix. Lavishly Hustrated 
with over 150 photographs and 25 drawings. 
Measures 8 % " x 11 V* Orig. Pub. at $ 14.95.
Now Only $5.98
BOOK OF JEWELRY MAKING: The Penland School 
of Crafts. Edited by John Coyne. For the first time in 
book form, the jewelry making techniques of the 
Penland School of Crafts are revealed. Fascinating 
step-by-step text, with specifically designed projects, 
take the beginner from supplies, through con
struction, to the final piece of jewelry. 1 50 close-up 
photos. Orig. Pub. at $12.95.
Only $4.98
ETHICS AND PROFITS. The Crisis of Confidence In 
American Business. By Leonard Silk and David 
Vogel. This important book is a critique of American 
business at a crossroods, focing hostility towards its 
traditional role and adjusting to new and unfamiliar 
social responsibilities, citizen and political pressures, 
and work situations. It outlines the search for a new 
system of American business ethics that will preserve 
the profit-motivated economy and re-establish the 
leadership role of business in the U.S. Orig. Pub. at 
$8.95.
Only $1.98emu bookstore
*1 BAKER HAIL

---------------------------------------------------

_______________________________________________________SPORTS
CMU's 'mean machine' keeps on rollin'
Bob Gasior (No. 31) heads upf'teld after a key reception.
by Ronnie Ben-Aron
After their 20-0 win over Cal State, it 
would have been hard to expect improve
ment from our Tartans. But improvement 
is precisely what we got in the form of a 
35-0 romp of Ohio Wesleyan. In the first 
period, those people who attended the 
first home game of the 1979 season saw a 
CMU defense which refused to yield an 
inch to their opponents, as attested by the 
number of first downs, accumulated by the 
Battling Bishops, zero. The OW defense 
played courageously in keeping the Tartans 
out of the endzone, but when the teams 
exchanged sides to begin the second peri
od, the Tartans were three yards shy of the 
goal line. From there, senior quarterback, 
Bob Kennedy, scored what proved to be 
the winning touchdown on a keeper.
Kennedy, for the second week in a row, 
was the leading rusher and passer on the 
field, rushing for 56 yards on 15 carries, 
and completing 0 of 14 passing attempts 
for 00 yards. Kennedy showed a degree of 
poise that would have made Terry Brad
shaw envious when, faced with a 4th and 7 
situation, he threw a completion just as he 
was being hit by three OW defenders, 
which kept the scoring drive alive.
On the first play from scrimmage fol
lowing the kickoff, tackle Mike Fausti re
covered a fumble on the OW 15 yard line. 
Six plays later, fullback Bob Gasior (45
yards on 18 carries) was in the end zone 
following a plunge from a yard out. Coach 
Klausing kept the starting offense unit on 
the field and Kennedy responded by going 
off tackle for 2 points and a 14-0 lead. 
CMU was driving for another score towards 
the end of the half but a Kennedy pass was 
picked off and CMU went into the locker 
room leading by fourteen. After the fans 
were treated to a typically entertaining 
performance by the Kiltie Marching Band, 
Kennedy led the Tartans on a scoring drive 
which was culminated by a Kennedy-Greg
Samsa 20 yard scoring play. On thatreception the senior tight end broke three tack
les to dance down the right side line for six 
points. Denny Postufkas kick made it 
21-0. In the closing minutes of the third 
period, the Battling Bishops displayed real 
fortitude. The Tartans had the ball on the 
Ohio Wesleyan 41 yard line. Kennedy 
threw a long pass downfield that fell un
touched, but because of an interference 
call, the home team had four shots to get 
nine feet. The Bishops defense, which 
should have been exhausted, held up, and
the offense set up shop on their one yard 
line. Four plays and a minute and a half 
later, the defense was back on the field.
Coach Klausing, who must be bucking 
for a Nobel Prize, took pity on the OW 
defense by keeping his rifle-armed field 
marshall off the field for the last 15 min
utes, 11 seconds. His replacement, sopho
more, Joe Stark showed us all that when 
Bobby Kennedy graduates, his vacated 
position will be in able hands. Stark was 
on the field for two series of plays which 
ended in a two yard touchdown pass and, 
later a five yard TD run by Stark, himself. 
The second touchdown followed a fumble 
recovery on the OW 33 by sophomore 
defensive back, Bill Humphrey. With the 
score now 35-0 and about four minutes 
to go, Klausing let southpaw, Bill Sieslak 
play quarterback. The left-handed fresh
man, who possesses, perhaps the strongest 
throwing arm on the squad, demonstrated 
his passing prowess by winging the ball 
30 yards downfield while on his way down.
The Tartans will travel to Hiram for 
their first interconference game of the 
year. Hiram finished second to CMU in the 
conference and actually gave up 15 fewer 
points to conference opponents than did 
CMUs stalwart defensive squad. The game 
should prove interesting as the Tartans will 
attempt to avenge last years only regular 
season loss.
STATISTICS
OWCMUScore.......................................35
Rushes-Yardage (net)....................................... 77193
Passing-Yardage (net) ....................................... 4981
Return Yardage (net)..................................... 538
Passes-A tt .-Com p .-Int.........................................7-220-314-107-26.7
Fumbles-Lost....................................................... 25
Penalties-Yards....................................................... 6150
CMU's swarming defense once again shut out the opposition and Ohio-Wesleyan was this week's.
IM sports get underway
'The University Weight Roon" provides a healthy training atmosphere for those interested in 
progressive resistance excercise.
New weight room opens
by Leslie Weiser
As always, the intramural department 
has been very busy this week. The Intra
mural Board elected its officers for 1979. 
The following people will serve as officers: 
Bob Dudas, President, who can be reached 
at 681-1436; Mike Parris, Vice President, 
who can be reached at Delta Upsilon; and 
Denise Ryan, Secretary, who can be reach
ed at Kappa Kappa Gamma. This is the 
first time in the history of the Intramural 
Board that a woman has held an office.
Sports for the week are:Touch Foot
ball, Tennis, and Golf. Touch Footballs 
commissioner is Rocky Cersosimo, and 
he can be reached in 106 Henderson. 
Games began yesterday. Please pick up 
game schedules and officials schedules 
in the Intramural office. Each team must 
provide a game official. Equipment may be 
checked out on the I.M. field.
There have been a few rule adjustments 
in Touch Football this year. For this 
year, only, teams will be permitted to 
have two varsity letterman per team on 
the roster, but only one ex-letterman on 
the field at any one time during the game. 
Coaches must inform Commissioner 
Cersosimo of any lettermen on their 
team. The three other major rule changes
are; (1). It is now permissable for two
offensive players to touch a forward pass 
and have the pass complete; (2) a team 
may use its own ball on offense; (3) on a 
forward pass, a receiver can touch in 
bounds with only one foot.
Tennis has a record number of 15 teams 
participating, this year. The commissioner 
is Terry Schladenhaufer from Beta; he can 
be reached at 681-9836. Matches start 
Monday September 17. All teams will 
play two singles and on doubles, one set 
each, during the season, and three sets 
during the playoffs. Schedules can be 
picked up in the intramural office.
The Golf commissioner is Mike Pochan. 
The entry and due date for the tournament 
will be announced at~a later date. All 
matches will be played at Schenley Park. 
It is still not too late to sign up for Golf!
Sports coming up with entries due 
September 27, are Co-Rec Volleyball, 
commissioner Mike Pochan,Cross-Country, 
commissioner Bob Dudas. Chess, commis
sioner Bob Met/., and Water Polo. A com
missioner is still needed for Water Polo, 
anyone interested should contact Bob 
Dudas or I.M. director, Mr. Birdy.
NEXT IM BOARD Meeting will be 
held Thursday, September 27 at L2:30 PM 
in Room 104 in the Gym.
Looking for a place to get back in 
shape? Whether you wish to simply shed a 
few pounds of unwanted fat, develop and 
refine an Olympian physique, or simply 
keep your body in tone, the University 
Weight Room provides everything you 
need to achieve the desired results.
The new weight room is located in the 
former fencing area of the gym, and is 
much more spacious than the former 
weight room. Most of the equipment from 
the old room was moved into the new 
weight room, so those of you have grown 
attached to one or two of the machines 
need not be alarmed. Furthermore, the
athletic department purchased an addition
al 2,000 lbs. of Olympic weight to accomo
date the new equipment. The new room 
has a power-lifting platform at its rear 
which contains two power racks for heavy 
training, and is arranged in a parallel, linear 
fashion so that two rows of equipment ex
tend on either side of the platform. This 
arrangement allows for a much more or
derly workout as each piece of equipment 
is placed directly in front of another.
The weight room contains 13 weight 
stations, two mini-group weight racks, a 
dumbell rack which consists of 28 pairs
continuad on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTANrSeptember 18, 19/9
continued from page 17
of dumbells ranging in weight from 5 lbs. 
to 50 lbs., and a Universal multi-function 
station. The equipment list includes two 
power racks, a new multi-purpose roman 
chair, an adjustable incline bench, two 
hack squat machines, two Scott curl ben
ches, sturdy parallel dipping bars, two 
flat benches, a standard non-adjustable 
incline bench, a (teluxe seated calf machine 
(you ve got to try this one!), 2 E-Z curl 
bars, and two new power racks fashioned 
after the strength machines of the Pitts
burgh Steelers. CMUs athletic director, 
James Banner, stated that a new lying leg 
pressmachine and lat rowing apparatus 
will be installed along with wall mirrors 
(for the bodybuilders) and, possibly, 
wall murals (for the aesthetic-minded 
trainer).
A local power lifting authority was 
used as consultant in devising the layout 
and in selecting the equipment for the 
University Weight Room, its official 
title. Whether youre a bodybuilder, 
power-lifter, or simply want to improve 
your appearance, 1 think that the new 
weight room will prove very effective in 
helping you to train properly. But remem
ber, youve got to make the machines 
work!
The "Universal Weight Machine" has a number of training ''stations" to thoroughly work each muscle 
group of the human anatomy. Its compactness is its best advantage.
City race set
Over 3,000 runners are expected to 
participate in the second apnual PITTS
BURGH MARATHON. an official 26 
mile, 385 yard race, and the five mile 
run which will be held Sunday, October 7 
at North Park, beginning 10 AM.
Special features of THE PITTSBURGH 
MARATHON include a fiat and fast track 
around North Park Lake, which is remote 
from traffic. Computerized timing with' 
back-up timing devices will also be used 
to pnsure runners of getting their right 
times. There will be separate divisions 
for men and women; catagories will al
so be decided by age. Awards will be 
presented to the top three finishers in 
each catagory for the Marathon. Awards 
for the five mile run will be presented 
to the first three male and female fini
shers.
A $5 entry fee will be assessed each 
participant ($7 after the September 28 
registration deadline). Runners will receive 
an official PITTSBURGH MARATHON 
T-shirt and refreshments. For additional 
information about the races call the Mara
thon Hotline at (412) 622-1404.
I don't understand why we can't find your prints!
How many times have you heard that story?
At ASAPHOTO we process Kodaeolor and iktachromefilm right on the premises and we will have your prints and slides ready to pick up that samm day! ASA means as soon 
as possible It also means rmllablllty and quality that is the absolute finest Stop in and see for yourself You are welcomed to watch our professional technicians at work After all, its your film
4SPPH0IO
3527 Forbes Ave. 
OaklandAcross From Parkvale Savings
681-1720HOURS 7 30 to 6 00 PM Mon Fri 10:00 to 3 00 PM  Saturdays
All about touch football
by Peter Gosinya
This week marks the beginning of 
another exciting season of Intramural 
Touch Football. This brand of football, 
unlike its gridiron counterpart is played 
with six person teams and incorporates 
a framework of rules that allow high 
scoring games with a limited amount 
of physical contact between opponents. 
But, this does not imply that the game is 
not physically demanding. To be a cham
pion in this league requires competitors to 
have excellent endurance and consider
able athletic ability.
The game is played on much the same 
format as regulation football; with kickoffs, punts, touchdowns, first downs and 
the like. What makes the game different, 
and therefore interesting is, as a six-man, 
game, there are certain regulations which
* DO YOU HAVE A CHEVROLET CH EVETTE THATfe NOT 
ALL CLEANED UP YET?I WANT HER -TO THINK IOWN IT. "
allow for a wide-open, explosive offense. 
The rules allow for all players to be eli
gible pass receivers, and double passing 
and misdirection plays that are really 
tough to defense are permitted. The 
game is played on a 60 yard field divided 
into three 20 yard zones. Moving from 
one zone to the next constitutes a first 
down. Touchdowns are scored by getting 
the football over the opponents goal line. 
There are no field goals or extia points 
by kicking. The extra point try must be 
made with either a pass or run from the 
five yard line. Defensive play is tough 
because of all the open areas in which 
a pass can be thrown. The most often 
used startegy is to try to out-guess the 
opponent by anticipating his offensive 
game plan and countering with the most 
appropriate defense. This, in microcosm, 
is IM football. Add some, tradition, a 
competitive spirit, and a need for some 
type of physical activity, and watch the 
rivalries develop and the intensity of the 
game increase.
The 1979 season started yesterday with
some traditional rivalries redeveloping, and
some new teams in the league. There are
78 teams competing this year in four
different league categories. There are seven
major league teams: ATO, Beta, Coaches
All-Stars, Haven II, Jumpin Jack Flash,
Pika, and SAE. The intermediate league
has 29 teams competing and 18 additional
minor leagues competing this year. There
are also three all-women teams competing
J;his year. (We would like to see more 
continued on page 19
200 No-Charge Miles
Per (Extra miles 20C each)
Chevette or similar.
Available 8:00 a m Friday til 
5:00 p.m. Monday
You pay for gas and return car 
to renting location. Rate nondiscountable 
and subject to 
change with
out notice.
Specific cars 
subject to 
availability.
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave 
(Hess Exxon)
offer S & H Green  --------.
Stamp certificates on KOLK
rentals m all 50 U.S. states.
We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette
20%
OFFrS
OPENING 
CALCULATOR 
SPECIALS
HP97.........................$599
HP67.........................$335
HP92.........................$396
HP41C . . . NEW____$285
HP33E . ..................$ 72
HP32E ....................$ 56
HP31E ....................$ 40
HP38E ............. $ 96
PHILIPS. WIENER
229 Atwood St. Pgh Pa. 15213
683-0313
V

---------------------------------------------------

continued from page 18
womens teams; the girls from the sorori
ties need some competition!) Play will 
continue into October with playoffs and 
a final playoff in each league. Schedules 
and referee assignments should be available 
in the IM office (Room 104, Thistle Hall) 
by tomorrow or Thursday. The commis
sioner of the leagues this year is Rocky 
Cersosimo (x4613). Remember, a missed 
referee assignment not only costs your 
team money, but also may cost your 
team a position in the final rankings that 
determine playoff spots.
Women win
The CMU Womens Tennis Team open
ed its season with a 7-0 win over Geneva 
College. The women, coached by Mark 
Bush, dominated Geneva throughout the 
entire competition. Denise Ryan, Jenny 
Mullan, Sue Lauren, Karen Jones, Brooke 
Skulskii ften Arsht and Anne Burach host 
W&J on Thursday, 4:45 PM.
Pick a winner by the nose!
The Major League in l.M. Football again 
this year is composed of traditional Frat 
.teams, two dorm teams, and a graduate 
student team. In the past, Frats have dom
inated the competition, but this year, a 
dorm team, Haven II, may pull some up
sets. The HAVEN is quarterbacked by 
Rocky Cersosimo, with help from people 
like Dave Schwartz, Tim Rushe and Ralph 
David. The Haven is back again this year 
with the stache and a host of others whom 
they think will keep them on top this year.
I look for this team to be in the playoffs 
this year. Another team that may cause 
some upsets this year is the perennially 
tough, Coaches Allstars. Headed by Mike 
Pochan and Mike Debrosse, the team has 
years and years of experience working for 
it and may be in there at the end. As of 
this dat, the writer ha^ nt really found 
out much about the other dorm team,
Jumpin Jack Flash, so I cant say anything 
nasty about them yet.
The fraternity team to beat this year is 
ATO. The team has some raw talent and 
should be a ringer for the playoffs. The 
team will be quarterbacked by the Swiss 
Miss, Don Stoebe, with the West brothers 
and Tony Palermo helping on defense. The 
teams greatest asset this year seems to be 
the improved play of an even bigger soup 
bone with help from the New York boys. 
Look for this team to ride the playoffs. 
The guys from SAE, a perennial power, 
again look like theyll make the playoffs, 
but theyll be operating with a Shiftless 
defense that wont be able to Skip along 
with the famous bowling Ball passing at
tack of years past. The offense, on the oth
er hand, looks tough with A1 Fountain at 
quarterback, with help frQKL;M Shirley, 
Dave Radack, and Jim Tritent. SAE will
come out and pass, pass, pass. The ariel on
slaught will be tough to stop. BETA this 
year will be returning with one of#ie best 
quarterbacks in the league, Jeff Cljfeburgh. 
Mark Schaffer will be helping ou^Sbo this 
year. I look for BETA to provm some 
tough competition this year. As fo|*PIKA, 
what can one say, they are the^lreigning 
champions and every team is losing to 
upset them. The organization is intense and 
the offense complex, but just ok for 
Foose on the Loose and youlliQ^d PI
KA will be helped out this year 
livan, Matt Wherle, Shaun 
league MVP,Ralph Peters. This tei 
tough to beat and I think theyll 
the teamsib the finals. Well, fans,*} 
my pre-sej|son picks and weH^ 
happens cfedib&tjras an; 
once the sRson getsrunifef wayJ^Hlluck 
to all die cfljjipetitiors.
^IlilllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllilHIIHtlllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllHilltilllllllHIIIIHtltlllllllllllllllllllllilllillilllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlUlllllillllJIIIIIIIiiillHtllllllliilll!
HOLY HYPERDOLKS!
HP makes professional scientific calculators students con afford.
Bet that bit of news really elevated your 
equations! Hewlett-Packard, the people who 
make some of the worlds most dynamic calcula
tors, now makes models just for your needs 
and budget Series E.
Wow! The first one is the HP-31E 
Scientific, now available at a NEW LOW PRICE 
 $50* Its a real corker of a basic scientific 
calculator. It has all the trigonometric, exponen
tial and math functions you need most. Not 
only that, it handles metric conversions. And if 
thats not enough, it has both Fixed and Scientific 
display modes and 4 separate user memories.
Want more? Then take the HP-32E 
Advanced Scientific with Stati-stics, also at a 
NEW LOW PRICE  $70* It's everything the 
HP-3 IE isand more! More math and metric, 
comprehensive statistics, decimal degree conver
sions, Engineering/Scientific/Fixed display 
modes and 15 user memories to boot. Sufficient 
to handle any "would-be brain busters!
And now, for those who meet the 
challenge of repetitious riddles, problems, and 
scientific equations the HP-33E Programmable 
Scientific! Likewise available at a NEW LOW 
PRICE-$90*
A multi-faceted scientific, math and 
statistical calculator with the added punch of 
programmability. It gives you at your command;
49 program lines of fully merged kevcodes-, a 
dazzling array of program Control keys; and 8 
user memories. Never again shv away from a 
sinister calculation!
And listen to this: every Series E calcula
tor comes with a new larger, 10-digit display 
with commas to separate thousands for easier 
reading; diagnostic systems to help you catch and 
correct errors; a low battery warning light; 
rechargeable batteries and more.
Surely, there is a Series E calculator that 
is right for you. Which one? I suggest that you 
stop by your HP dealer for a hands-on 
demonstration and a free copy ofA buyers guide 
to HP professional calculators! For your 
dealers address, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-648-4711 
except from Alaska or Hawaii. In Nevada, call 
800-992-5710. Get your HPand solve another 
one for freedom, ingenuity and correct answers!
HEWLETT 3m] PACKARD
Dept hSKI. I(MM) N F. Circle Blvd Corvallis OR 97310 hl1* I I
*Su(!t!csttfd retail prue excluding applicable stale and local taxes 
Coniinent.il I S A Alaska & Hawaii
ml

---------------------------------------------------

 oye u-i n i mi-aepiemr Tom ly/y
Fall sports preview '79
SUNDAY
WORSHIP
10:30 a.m. 
LUC Chapel 
6:1 5 p.m. 
Heinz 
Chapel
COUNSELING
-personal-vocational-spiritualConfi< dential
FELLOWSHIP
A variety of 
activities
STUDY
current 
issues, the 
Bible, Theol
ogy. related 
subjects
RETREATS
A short time 
away recreates 
rejuvenates 
relaxes
LUTHERAN
CAMPUS
MINISTRY
4515 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh 15213 
V 682-6886 J
ALTERNATIVE
COFFEEHOUSE
Fridays 
8 p.m. - 
midnight
LUNCH
Weekdays 
11:30 a.m. 
1:15 p.m.
LUTHERAN
STUDENT
MOVEMENT
regional and 
national involvement
RELIGIOUS 
EDUCATION AT 
BLIND SCHOOL
conducted by 
LUC
NI students j
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Avenue (Between Craig and 
Dithridge Streets) is open weekdays 9 am - 5 pm, Sundays for morning 
study and worship, Fridy a evenings for the Alternative Coffeehouse, 
and other evenings as programs are scheduled. Drop in and meet Cam
pus Pastor, Paul Sampsell. Students are also welcome to use the Center 
to study or talk. Coffee and donuts are available each weekday from 10 
am until 11:30 am. Student art can also be displayed.
Lutheran Campus Ministry is planned by and for students and others in
volved in the academic community. You are invited to participate.
east west books
Its quiet, thoughtful, personal.
with books on:
Yoga 
Mediation 
Holistic health 
Zen
Nutrition
Philosophy
Psychology
Mysticism
Introductory coupon redeemable during Sept. 1979 for:
25% OFF ONANY BOOK atEAST WEST BOOKS
304 S. Bouquet St. 683-4423 
Limitone per customer.
Visit the Art Carved Representative This Week
e Buy Now and Save on Selected Traditional and 
Contemporary Rings.
e See our Wide Variety of New Styles.
Men's Contemporary
Women's Fashion
... symbolizing your ability to achieve
September 19, 20, 21  10 AM - 4 PM 
Baker Hall, Bookstore 
emu btokstcre*
^ J Deposit required. MasterCharge or Visa accepted.
/ ijfjflf)/ Suppheflof the 1900
United States Olympic Team
Editor's Note: The following sports pre
view is an exerpt from Alumni News Fall 
Sports Preview  issued by Sports Informa
tion Director, Ron Gchowicz.
Cross Country: The Carnegie-Mellon
cross country team shook the Presidents 
Athletic Conference last season with a 
perfect 9-0 season, therby ending Case 
Western Reserves 12-year dominance of 
the league.
In doing so, coach Gary Meckleys 
runners also ended Casess undefeated 
dual meet string at 00 while building 
the Tartans own stretch without 
a loss to 16. For Meckley, the season raised 
his 9-year totals at CMU to 108-20 overall 
and 74-6 in dual meets, while placing the 
Tartans in the top 15 nationally.
CMU should be jsut as powerful this 
season, with four out of five all-conference 
performers returning, to lead a squad 
dominated by underclassmen.
The Tartan 1-2 punch consists of Craig 
Wooheater, a senior All-PAC and All-East 
selection who Meckley calls a team 
leader and Dario Donatelli, a. junior 
honorable mention All-American. Donatelli 
is a bit of a question mark, though, since a 
foot injury has hampered his off-season 
training.
Two other All-PAC selections Meckley 
will be counting on are sophomores Steve 
Bailey and Scott Kidd.
We could be challenged by Bethany, 
Case or Allegheny this season, Meckley 
says, but if we stay healthy and run like 
last year, we sould repeat as PAC champs.
Soccer: The Tartan soccer team con
tinued to improve last season under 
year Coach Gene Klein, posting a 3-3 con
ference record and finishing 6-5 overall.
This season Klein will have more time 
to build the CMU soccer program, since 
Athletic Director Jim Banner has given 
him full-time status. It couldnt have 
happened at a better time, since Klein 
predicts 1979 to be a reconstruction year.
Were looking for a winning season,
Klein explains,but well be predominantly 
freshmen and sophomores. If we find a 
strong goal scorer, we could have a highly 
successful year.
The Tartans lost seven lettermen to 
graduation, with six returning. Among the 
missing will be foreward Keith Hordatt 
and defender Harry Brunacheboth AllConference performers.
Klein hopes to build the team around 
sophomore defender Bob Messmer, another 
All-Conference selection; senior midfields
man George Canepa, a four-year starter; 
and Colin Clement, a junior forward who 
Klein says has all-conference potential.
A pair of freshmen also appear promis
ing. They are Mike Minjiock, a two-year 
All-WPIAL defender from Sewickly 
Academy and Dave Jacobs, an All-WPIAL 
pick from Norwin.
Field Hockey: Coach Jane Fisks field 
hockey squad finished 4-3 overall last 
season and 4-2 in Pennwood West Confe
rence play to trail only Bethany last 
but must fill the gaps ' caused by 
including the loss of leading scorer Mary 
Jane Smith.
Along with Smith, Tartan All-Confe
rence squad members included Audrey 
Goldstein, Lynn Ritter, Elaine Etienne 
and Lyn Kelley.
Kelley returns for the 1979 campaign 
along with sophomore Edna Kunkle, who 
was voted Most Valuable Player by her 
teammates in 1978 for her work in goal.
Womens Tennis: When Mark Bush
replaced Peggy Russell as the coach of 
the CMU Womens Tennis Team, he 
didnt inherit an easy position. All 
the ladies did last season was to win six 
conference matches and 15 of 12 overall.
Marya Piasecki earned MVP honors 
from her teammates, while Jane 
Vaselenak and Pat Weston earned berths 
on the All-Conference squad.
Volleyball: Although ,some coaches
would be satisfied with an 11-9 year, 
Tartan volleyball coach Jane Fisk is 
continued on page 21

---------------------------------------------------

determined to improved on that 1978 
showing and hope to return CMU to 
1977 form, when it won the conference 
crown.
Davine Davieswho Fisk calls her 
best center ever-is gone, but a trio 
of strong performers should form the 
core of a powerful team. Two second 
team All-Conference players-Jennifer 
Caster and Laura Cooperreturn, along 
with Jenny Donaldson, the team captain 
who was sidelined much of last season with 
an injury.
continued from page 20
No. 89, Greg Dancing Pig" Samsa is greeted 
by happy teammates who witnessed his tacklebreaking romp down the sidelines after stabbing 
a Bob Kennedy aerial. Samsa's consistency has 
bolstered the Tartan passing attack considerably.
;.;r ' r->
 What an act! ... and he gets to do it twice a night 
For the real beer lover.
Photo by Larry Duffy

---------------------------------------------------

THE SUN SHINES ON 
SIX A
L NEW OAKLAND^ 
X STORES!! M
Kaleidoscope... Natural ice cream, fresh fruits & juices, yogurt & slush drinks. 
ASA* P hoto ... Sameday on premise Kodacolor and Ektachrome service.
Truly-A-Treat.. . A fantasy world designed to brighten your apartment or dorm. 
Heritage Wine... Produced from selected domestic and European variety grapes
Offering fast, economical copying-printing & resume service
Sounds&Seeds...The college students department store...records, plants, paraphernalia
fifth O

---------------------------------------------------

uncoming events
theater...
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 'is offering 
students a special half-off discount on thea
tre and dance subscriptions. The discount 
allows students to see four plays of four 
dance programs for as little as $4.50-top 
price is $9. All seats are reserved and gua
ranteed; no students rush or standby 
restrictions. For more information, call 
621-4445 pr stop by the Play house 
box office, 222 Craft Avenue in Oakland.
The Playhouse Theater Company will 
present Alan Ayckbourn's Absent Friends, 
beginning September 20 at the Craft Ave
nue Theater. For ticket information, call 
621-4445.
The Iron Clad Agreement will open its 
1979-80 season with Thomas A. 
Edison, by Scott Cummings. Opening 
dates are September 21 and 22; for 
ticket information, call 731-2445.
Neil Simon's romantic comedy, Chap
ter Two, will plat at Heinz Hall, September 
25-30, for eight performances only. For 
ticket information, call 281-8185.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
Mister Roberts, September 26-November 4, 
at the Allegheny Theater on the North 
Side. For ticket and season subscription 
information, call the Public box office 
at 765-3500.
Mary Roberts Rinehart's mystery thriller 
The Bat will be presented by the Per
forming Arts Department of Community 
Colleges South Campus on September 
28, 29, October 5 and 0 at 8:00 PM 
each evening. Assistant Professor Richard 
Felnagle will be directing this classic 
"whodunnit from the 1920's which 
Rinehart also adapted as one of her popu
lar series of best-selling mystery novels.
The Drama Dept, reminds students 
that tickets to CMU's Drama Pro
ductions are free to students with a 
CMU I.D. (Limit 2 tickets per person).
cinema...
This weeks films in the Pittsburgh Play
house Film Repertory are: September 18, 
A Streetcar Named Desire; September 19, 
The General; September 20, Midnight Cow
boy; September 21, Jaws; September 22, 
1900; September 23, Meet Me In St. 
Louis; and September 24, North by North
west. Admission is $2.50 with two show
ings nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 PM except 
for 1900 which will only have one show
ing at 7:30. Viewings are at the Playhouse 
Theatre on Craft Avenue.
La Chienne by Jean Renoir will be 
shown September 18 at 6 PM in the Carne
gie Lecture Hall. Admission is $1.50.
September 19 at 7:30 PM
Diary of A Mad Housewife in the Eddy
Theatre, Chatham College. Admission $1.
September 19 at 6 and 10 PM Despair 
in Lawrence Hall, Pitt campus
Admission $1.50.
September 20 at 6 PM Christos Valley 
Curtain an Running Fence 
Museum of Art Theatre - Admission 
FREE.
September 21 at 6,8:30 and 11 PM 
An Unmarried Woman in DH 2210 
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$1.25 without
Paul Mazursky directs this funny frank 
comedy about a woman who must re
discover herself when her husband leaves 
her for a younger woman. Starring Jill 
Clayburgh.
mlllii nu mi ^ mi 'ts?
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
11 00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-4
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointments
Walt Disneys Pinocchio can be seen 
September 22 at 1:30 and 3 PM in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. Admission is 
$1.50.
September 22 at 7:30 and 9:40 PM, 1900 
in Play house Hamlet St. Theatre. Admis
sion $2.50.
Hallelujah, I'm a Bum will be shown 
September 23 at 7:30 PM in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall.
music...
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
coming schedule includes: on September 
20, 22, and 23, guest soloist Janos Starker 
will perform Saint-Sans Cello Concerto in 
A minor , with Michel Tilson Thomas 
conducting. In addition to Mr. Starker's 
performances, the Orchestra will play 
Debussy's Three Nocturnes with the 
West Virginia University Choir, and 
Stravinsky's Le Sacre du Printemps (The 
Rite of Spring).
September 22, Leon Redbone, Blues musi
cian in concert. CCAC, North Side Cam
pus. Admission $2.00 w/student ID. Call 
237-2675 for tickets,
etc...
art...
The Arts and Crafts Center is THE com
munity arts center in Pittsburgh. The gal
leries have exciting shows which are free to 
the public. Artworks and unique gifts are 
on display and for sale in the Mart. This 
Fall there are more than 100 classes, work
shops, and a new lecture series starting the 
week of September 24. Register at the Cen
ter at Fifth and Shady Avenues or call 361- 
0455 for more information.
Museum of Art Carnegie Institute, 440 
Oakland Ave. Gallery hours: Tuesday  
Saturday from 10AM - 5PM. Sunday from 
1 - 0PM. Closed Mondays.
HiiniiiimiiiiiaiiiiiiiiifiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDis
EARN $$$$$!
ENJOY THEATER ! 
SUPPORT THE ARTS
For information call; 
Jeffrey Silber, 
Pittsburgh 
Public Theater,
765-3400
aiaiiiiiiimiiDiiimiiiiiioiiiiiMiiiiciiiiiiiiiiiiiaiifR
Kurt Vonnegut 
takes on the 
subject hes 
been leading 
up to all this 
time: the 
political story of our lives.
JAILBIRD is the best novel 
Kurt Vonnegut has written since 
Slaughterhouse-Five It features 
trenchant observations about 
our political systems and 
society, as well as the return of 
Kilgore Trout. It is, in short, vin
tage Vonnegut: a literary event 
of the first magnitude and a 
bestseller event of major 
proportions.
emu btcKUtro*
Burt Reynolds and Kris Kristofferson 
can be seen September 18 at 9PM on 
WLLC-TV channel 11, in Semi-Tough.
September 18-30, Oayplus Workshop 
Library Cwilary, Chatham College. Hours: 
Tuesday-Sunday 2-5 PM, Friday 7-9 PM.
September 22, Ah: Wilderness. The long 
Wharf Theatre's production of Eugene 
O'Neill's only gomedy. WQED-TV Chan
nel 13, 9PM.%
The International Poetry Forum opens 
its 14th season with Tennessee Williams 
reading his poetry on Wednesday, Sept 26 
at 8:00 PM in Carnegie Music Hall, Oak
land. Tickets available at the Forum Office 
(621-9893) or at Natl Record Marts. 
Prines: $0, $4.50, $3, $2.
The Portfolio, Craig St., Oakland. Mon
days; Open Stage, Tuesdays; Comedy 
Workshop. Wednesdays; Little Ramus 
Band, Thursdays; Streetcar Band, Fridays; 
Artie Tedesko.
Events, announcements and Classifieds: 
Deadline is Wednesday at 5 PM. No late 
announcements or classifieds will be ac
cepted.
Classified must be typed or printed 
neatly on 8 x 11 inch paper. Payment 
must be made either by cash or check. 
Classifieds over $5.00 may be billed to 
you.
Events and Announcements must be 
submitted before Wednesday at 5 PM and 
must be typed or written neatly on 8 x 11 
inch paper. The criteria for selecting an
nouncements for publication is as follows:
1) The event or announcement must be 
open to the whole campus community.
2) The event or announcement must be 
of general interest and not for the benefit 
of a very limited group of people.
Because of limitations, the TARTAN 
cannot guarantee placement of any an
nouncement or event. The editors and 
staff will attempt in good faith to include 
all announcements and events which 
meet the above criteria.
Classified Rates: Ads are $.10 per 
word. Announcements are free to campus 
or non-profit organizations.
Join the
TARTAN 
News Staff!
Meets every
Tuesday 7PM
Skibo 50

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
.CLASSIFIED ADS -------------------
classified
Another SPORTS EDITOR NEEDED at
the TARTAN  A responsible person with 
a strong interest in sports and a flexible 
schedule is needed to fill the position of 
sports editor. If you qualify; call x2111, 
x2112 or x2113.
3 Bedrooms; Unfurnished and Furnished.
Carpet, appliances, laundry, heat paid. 
From $349, 682-7011. ,
Shadyside: Two and Three Bedrooms, Car
pet, appliances, laundry, heat paid. From 
$309,682-7011.
*73 VW Superbeetle. Excellent condition,
low mileage, 22  37 mpg. $1900. 242- 
6650.
Childcare in my home by a grad student in
Child Development. Flexible hours. Phone: 
421-8959.
"Disco Dance Classes", "Ballroom & Latin
Classes"  "Less than $1.00 per hour", 
6 weeks - 32 hours includes: lessons - 
parties - dinner - shows at "Holiday House" 
241-2162.
1972 Ford Pinto Runabout. Automatic
transmission. Vinyl top. Inspected 3. 
Runs good, body fair. $450.00. 523-5660.
Wendy,
Tell the Lost Boys of the forest that Saturn 
eats his children.
Peter Pan
P.S. Beware of Captain Hook and the 
crocodile.
Trolley Party for singles. September 29
at 6:45 PM. Cost is $3.50  checks may be 
made payable to East Liberty Presbyterian 
-Church. Call 441-3800 or 833-9812 
(evenings) for more information.
clubs
A meeting of all TARTAN typesetters will
take place Wednesday, September 19 at 
4:30 PM in the Main Office of the TAR
TAN. All are required to be present.
WRCT PUBLICITY MEETING i for any
one interested) at WRCT studios in Skibo 
Room 46), Wednesday 9 PM. For more in
formation call X2883.
AB COFFEEHOUSE will hold its first
meeting of the fall semester on Wednesday, 
September 19, at 5:30 PM in Room 33, 
Skibo. This meeting is to discuss the fall 
schedule of coffeehouses. All old members 
are invited to attend as well as anyone in
terested in joining coffeehouse. Come with 
ideas for the fall semester.
THE YEARBOOK STAFF meets Wednes
days, 7:30 PM, Room 46A, Skibo. Writers, 
business staff, layout staff and photo
graphers always welcome.
CMU HAS GONE INDEPENDENT. The
CMU Philosophy Club, part of a joint 
CMU-Pitt Philosophy Club in the past, 
has decided to become independent this
year.
Come let us know what you want to 
talk about. A wide variety of topics can be 
discussed in this informal, social setting. 
This is not limited to Philosophy or H&SS 
students. Next meeting: Monday, Septem
ber 24, 8 PM in the H&SS Lounge, Baker 
Hall 254A. Dr. Roger Wertheimer, Chair
man of the Philosophy program, will be 
speaking. Refreshments will be served.
Activities Board Coffeehouse Committee
will be holding auditions on Sunday, Sep
tember 23, at 1:00 in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. Please sign up before that time by 
leaving a note containing your name, 
phope number, type of entertainment, 
number of people in your act. A piano 
will be available in the Wherrett Room. 
Be prepared to perform 2 or 3 songs which 
give an indication of your range and re
present what you could do at coffeehouse. 
We are interested in comediens, magicians, 
singers, dancers, etc.
A new dub, the Liberals' Club, will be
meeting for the first time on Tuesday, 
September 18thTonight! Find out what 
liberalism really means. We are the only 
non-rightist political group on campus.
On Tuesday, September 18, the Student
Alumni Relations Committee will hold 
its first general meeting of the year. Any
one interested in becoming a member of 
SARC is invited to attend. The meeting 
will be held at 7:30 PM on the fifth floor 
of Warner Hall. See you there!
The Tech Flying Club invites all members
of the campus community to a showing of 
the film "To Fly" on Wednesday, Septem
ber 19 at 7:30 PM in Skibo 45. After
wards there will be an opportunity to dis
cuss flying, learning to fiy, and the Tech 
Flying Club.
general
Law School Admission information is avail
able from Professor Thomas A/1. Kerr, 
Room 206, GSIA. This includes full infor
mation for registration for the Law School 
Aptitude Test. All undergraduates who are 
interested in discussing the possibility of 
a law career are invited for counseling. 
Flea Market at the Pitt Student Union Ball
room Friday and Saturday, September 21 
and 22, 10 AM to 6 PM. Collectibles and 
used books, furniture, clothing, records, 
posters, bric-a-brac and much more for 
sale. Proceeds to Pitt/Oakland YMCA 
community service programs.
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION. A Learning
Resources Fair will be held from 12 noon4 PM in the Skibo Ballroom.
Work Study Students wanted to assist
in course-related clerical work and library 
searches. Times flexible, 7 hours/ week. 
Contact Dr. Susan Fiske, Psychology 
Department, Baker Hall 335B, 578-2786, 
afternoons.
Rent-A-Tech is a service provided by Stu
dent Corporation that gives students the 
opportunity to obtain employment, in
teract with the Pittsburgh community, and 
even gain valuable experience in their 
field.
If you are looking for part-time employ
ment, or if you have a job you want done, 
contact Rent-A-Tech, Skibo 58, 682- 
5482 or 578-3535.
Beginning next week a list of avail
able jobs will be published in the TAR
TAN. Current jobs will also be announced 
at 1:00, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fri
days on WRCT.
The Second Annual Pittsburgh Marathon,
consisting of an official 26 mile, 385 yard 
race, and the 5 mile run, will be held 
Sunday, October 7 at North Park begin
ning at 10 AM. Awards will be presented. 
Call 622-1404.
The College of Science, Carnegie Mellon
Institute, will present the movies on the 
"Ascent of Man" by Bronowski each 
Tuesday night starting September 18 at 
7:30 PM in DH2210. The movies are 
open to faculty, students, and the pub
lic. Each showing will be followed by a 
discussion with a panel of academic ex
perts. You are cordially invited to attend 
and participate in the discussion.
Dr. Gerald Grob, Professor of History at
Rutgers University, will lecture on the 
subject ''Psychiatry and Mental Hospitals 
in Modern America: Myths and Realities" 
on Wednesday, September 26, 1979 at 
8:00 PM in the GSIA PFE auditorium 
as part of the Seminar Series in Values 
and Public Policy, funded by a grant from 
the S and H Foundation. The lecture is 
open to the campus community and the 
public. Professor of History, Joel Tarr, 
of the History Department and SUPA, has 
arranged the series.
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open 
office hours for students on Tuesdays from 
1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Did you leave a book in the E & S Library
last year? It may be in our collection of 
lost books. Please check before September 
28.
We would like to extend, through you, an
invitation to any of your Jewish students 
who would like to attend Reform services. 
If they come to our office any day before 
the Holy Day period on Monday through 
Friday, between the hours of 9 to 4:30 
PM, we will give them tickets and be happy 
to have them join in our services in the 
Freehof Hall of the Rodef Shalom.
The Rodef Shalom Congregation will
hold religious services for the Jewish 
High Holy Days of Rosh Hashanah on Fri
day evening, September 21, and Saturday 
morning, September 22, Yom Kippur on 
Sunday evening, September 30, and Monr 
day, October 1. There will be an early 
and a late evening service at 6:30 and 
9:15. The morning services will be at 
10:00.
The Office of Career Services and Place
ment will sponsor meetings concerning the 
operating procedures of the office and to 
answer the questions of seniors and grad
uate students who plan to use the services. 
The meetings will be held on: Monday, 
September 24, 4:00 PM, Wherrett Room, 
Skibo; Tuesday, September 25, 11:30 AM, 
Wherrett Room, Skibo; Wednesday, Sep
tember 26, 11:30 AM, Wherrett Room, 
Skibo; and Wednesday, September 26, 
4:00 PM, Room 7500, Science Hall.
Forbes Street Gallery. A show featuring
drawings, paintings, prints, and glass 
works by Dianne Freitag, Johanna Drew 
and Carmine Zinni will open on Tuesday, 
September 18 and run through Sunday, 
September 23. The gallery is open Tues
day through Sunday 12:00 to 4:00 and 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday even
ings 7:00 to 9:00. The public is welcome.
Homecoming has arrived quickly and soon
we will be celebrating the crowning of a 
new Campus Queen. This year, any 
recognized student organization may nomi
nate one representative, allowing the selec
tion of Miss Varsity to be representative of 
the entire campus community. Dr. John C. 
Warner, 1950-65 CMU President Emeritus, 
has been invited to serve as this year's 
Honorary Homecoming Chairman and to 
present the Homecoming Court. This year's 
Queen will again be crowned Miss Varsity 
in accordance with the Tech traditions of 
the 1930's.
When voting for the new Miss Varsity 
(Tuesday, October 9, and Wednesday 
October 10), remember that like CarnegieMellon, she should be of good standing in 
academics, well rounded, interesting, and 
socially stimulating.
SERIES AT SIX. The series continues
Thursday night in the Morewood Rec 
Room with "Study Skills, Note Taking, 
Time Management." The series is co-spon
sored by Campus Program Planning and the 
Department of Residence Life.
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION "Academic
Questions and Answers" give freshmen the 
chance to meet their Deans and Advisors 
and to discuss their programs of study. The 
program takes place from 79 PM in ihe 
Skibo Ballroom Friday.
A CHANCE TO , vj-r atfir rfn-ri  Ur"
rj ^ , i '
STEP AHEAD
---------------
if tv.  1mix
EVERY WEDNESDAY; : 4:30 PMSKIBO 111. , '! i -fc Ab, :
