..........................uv 4*5
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56  NUMBER 8 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1963
Charles Bell, Tech Grad, Plays 
Jazz For Concert, Recording
This week, those who delight in the sound of good jazz, 
disciplined yet original, and spontaneous music, and those 
interested in and proud of the quality of musicianship which 
the Tech Music Department can develop, will have the op
portunity to enjoy a combined concert and recording session
by the Charles Bell Contempo-^-------------------------:-----------------------------
rary Jazz Trio. This combined rri > Tl
1 utor r rogramconcert and recording session will 
be presented on Saturday, Nov. 9, 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall. Tickets may be purchas
ed at all National Record Marts, at 
Lomakins, on campus at the Skibo 
desk, or from Mary Neuhauser, 
3D4. E*ach ticket includes a coupon 
redeemable at National Record 
Marts for a free 45 rpm recording 
from the concert, or worth $1 to
ward the purchase of the complete 
L.P.
Charles Bell graduated from 
Carnegie Tech in 1955 with a de
gree in music, having studied un
der Mr. Nicolai Lopatnikoff. He is 
attending Tech at present, study
ing conduction under Sydney 
Harth. In December, 1962, Mr. 
Bell's Concerto in Miniature, com
missioned by the Pittsburgh Sym
phony, was premiered at the 
Syria Mosque. William Steinberg, 
conductor of the Symphony, ex
pressed his belief that Charles 
Bell would prove to be one of the 
significant American musicians.
Bells Contemporary Jazz Trio 
has won critical acclaim for both 
its peisonal appearances and its 
recordings. The group has played 
at Birdland in New York City, at 
the Newport Jazz Festival, at the 
(continued on page 1)
Haven 9t You Heard A boutDristan?
Grows In Scope
The North Side Tutorial Proj
ect, which has now been in op
eration for over three weeks, has 
added over 30 students and 55 
tutors to their program. Within 
the last two weeks, over 20 more 
tutors have applied.
Beginning soon, there will 
be meetings with the tutors 
to discuss the problems they are 
encountering and the progress 
they have made. Jean Renaud, 
Tech junior and elementary -ad
ministrator, reports that there has 
been 90 per cent attendance. Sev
eral churches in Manchester and 
St. Matthews Church have been 
enlisted as additional teaching cen
ters. At the present time, they are 
looking for a third administrator 
since the project has enlarged 
more than was expected.
The present program will end 
with Christmas Vacation. Appli
cation has been made to the Com
munity Chest for further funds to 
'continue tutoring on the North 
Side during the second semester.
GSIA Fairless Lectures Series 
Opens With Talk By Dr. Hauge
On Thursday, November 7, Dr. 
Gabriel Hauge will deliver the 
first of three lectures on the theme 
of The Individual In The Modern 
World. The lecture, to be given 
at 4:30 in Skibo-is also the first 
of five lectures sponsored by the 
Benjamin Fairless Memorial Fund 
under the auspices of the Grad
uate School of Industrial Admini
stration.
Dr. Hague, president of the 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
Company of New York, received 
his Ph.D. from Harvard Univer
sity. He had served on the facul
ties of Harvard and Princeton 
Universities prior to World War 
II.
After the war, he was an editor 
and an assistant to the chairman 
of the executive committee of the 
McGraw-Hill Publishing Company 
for two years. He then joined the 
administration of President Eisen
hower as an administrative assist
ant for economic affairs. In 1956, 
he was named special assistant for 
economic affairs to the president, 
a position he held until 1958.
Is The Individual Obsolete? is 
the subject of his first talk on 
November 7. Dr. Hauges two sub
sequent lectures will be delivered 
on November 14 and November 21.
Invitations for attendance to 
these lectures have been extend
ed to all Carnegie Tech students. Plans are being made to install a
CARNEGI SATUG
closed-circuit television network 
in Skibo to accommodate the ex 
pected audience.
Series Honors Late Trustee 
The Benjamin Fairless Mem 
orial Lecture Series, honoring the 
late chairman of the board of the 
United States Steel Corporation, 
was established by the Fairless 
Memorial Lecture Fund. The fund 
was organized through contribu
tions from steel companies and 
friends of Mr. Fairless.
Chairmen of the Fairless Mem
orial Lecture Fund, when it was 
(continued on page 3)
OGAFHGN LY1tEFEY1u dGNG eTEFG tEnnGNG1F IAuF oAFTNtAgr LYswANGt FY iAII iGuFElAIr dHG1 
mGLH IYuF FY O  ar y4:30
Tartan Debate 
Society Takes 
Fifth In Match
Last weekend, the Tartan De
bating Society opened its season 
with a fifth place finish at a tour
nament held at La Salle Univer
sity in Philadelphia. It was at
tended by twenty-six universi
ties. In gaining their victory the 
Tech team downed teams from 
American U., St. Vincent, and 
U.S. Naval Academy,
The negative squad was made 
up of Bob Hawkins, and Mike 
Gross, who turned in a striking 
4 win and 1 loss round. The af
firmative team was comprised of 
Andy Logan and Tom Miller.
Next weekend the Tech Union 
is hosting its own tournament 
and invites anyone interested to 
attend. The topic this year is 
Resolved: That the Federal Gov
ernment should Guarantee an Op
portunity to Higher Education to 
all Qualified High School Gradu
ates.
Dance Away 
Cares At TGIF
Mid-term exams got you down? 
Shake off those mid-semester 
blues at Student Congress TGIF 
dance this Friday, 4:30 to 6:00 
p.m. in the Skibo Ballroom.
Come and frugue out Funda
mentals of Psychology, stomp on 
Statistics lectUTes, slop away 
Sloans exams.
Live, swinging music will be 
furnished by the Flames. Four 
free movie passes will be award
ed to the best frugueing couple 
and the top in free style danc
ing. It will be THANK GOOD
NESS ITs aFTER midterms this 
Friday after classes.
Student Congress
Student Congress will meet to
day at 4:30 in the Wherret room.
Next Week Tech Presents 
Movie of OrivelVs4Animal Farm'
Most all students on a college level are familiar with 
George Orwells powerful novel, ANIMAL FARM. All Ani
mals are Equal, but Some Animals Are More Equal Than 
Others is the theme of Orwells famous fable. The story 
deals with the revolt of Farmer Jones domesticated animals
---------------------------------------------------------?against their cruel master. The
 liberated animals soon find that
Three Awards
The department of painting, de
sign and sculpture in the College
they have succeeded in exchang
ing one form of tryranny for an
other as the pigs, who are the 
shrewdest of the bunch, assume 
control.
What many students are not 
of Fine Arts has presented awards aware of is that ANIMAL FARM 
to three outstanding students for has been transformed into an
work completed in the 1962-63 j electrifying motion picture . . .
This full length animated, color 
feature, produced in England in
academic year. 
Emily Huhbard,
painting this
a senior in 
year, received a1955. caused an international furor 
when it was first released. Typical
summer study scholarship at the j of the unanimous critical acclaim
Yale-Norfolk Summer School of awarded it is the following by
Art, Norfolk, Connecticut. She re^os'ey Ciowther of the New \ork   " " length, adult,ceived the scholarship on the | c ^atic 
basis of a portfolio of her work.vivid and bit
ing, illuminating and devastating 
 some political realities of our 
, times are emphasized and made ceived the Joseph Bailey Ellis. extremely startling.
Jonathan Charles Borofsky reAward for promise in the field of 
sculpture. The award provides for 
a prize of $100. A senior in sculp
ture, Mr. Borofsky is the son of 
Mr. and Mrs. S. Borofsky of New
ton Center, Massachusetts.
James J. Lesko, a junior, re
ceived the Augusta Fisher Porter 
Prize of $100 for the most promis
ing sophomore student sculpture 
work.
The Joseph Bailey Ellis Award 
in sculpture was established in 
honor of the former head of Car
negie Techs department of sculp
ture and is given to a student 
demonstrating talent and promise 
in sculpture. The Augusta Fisher 
Porter Prize was established in 
1938, in the will of John L. Porter, 
who was former chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of Carnegie 
Tech. The prize is awarded for the 
best piece of sculpture done by a 
sophomore student.
ANIMAL FARM is a winner of 
the American Film Festival, the 
Cannes International Film Fes
tival, and has received numerous 
equally important awards.
ANIMAL FARM may be seen at 
7:00 or 9:30, November 12 through 
16, (next Tuesday through Satur
day) except Thursday, in Porter 
Hall 100. Admision is 50 cents per 
person.
Sorority Rush 
Is Coming 
Go Greek

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, November 6, 1963
Tech Graduate 
Gives Concert
(continued from page 2) 
Georgetown University Jazz Fes
tival, where it won first prize 
from over 300 participating artists, 
and at the International Jazz Fes
tival in Washington, D.C., where 
it appeared by Presidential invita
tion. The Trio has also made a 
highly successful European tour, 
sponsored by the U.S. State De
partment, during which it played 
at the Helsinki Youth Festival, 
held as a counter to a U.S.S.R. 
youth rally. This appearance was 
recorded for the television pro
gram 20th Century.
Charles Bells first album, on 
Columbia records, was awarded a 
five-star rating in Downbeat ma
gazine, and his musical conception 
and expression were highly prais
ed by such critics as George Hoefer, John Tynan, and Mat Hentoff. 
The groups latest album, An
other Dimension, on the Atlantic 
label, was presented as Album of 
the Month in the Hi Fi-Stereo Re
view magazine. Critics from Pitts
burgh newspapers have also ap
plauded both Bells own work apd 
that of the entire trio.
The instrumentation of the 
group consists of piano, bass, and 
drums. The bassist, Tommy Se
well, has worked with such greats 
as Miles Davis, Max Roach, and 
Ahmad Jamal. Bill Harris,, the 
drummer, has played with Horace 
Farlan and Art Farmer. The 
groups repertoire includes an 
exciting collection of standards, 
blues, and distinctive oringinal 
numbers.
This concert affords an oppor
tunity for both the serious jazz 
listener and for the person seek
ing relaxed and spontaneous en
tertainment to enjoy the finest in 
modern jazz talent.
Scotch n Soda 
Board Members
For the second week, Scotch n 
Soda presents . . . Scotch n Soda, 
the board members, that is.
Robert Rappaport is Drama 
Representative. He is a sophomore 
dramat, a set designer, and has 
worked for S n S for two years. 
Last summer he worked as Tech
nical Director for the Pennisula 
Players of Fish Creek, Wisconsin. 
He says that S n S gives him 
valuable experience.
Dennis Kahle is Music Repre
sentative. He is a sophomore mu
sic major, straight performance 
in percussion. Last year he work
ed on arrangements for S n S 
and played in the orchestra for 
Miss Stars and Stripes. This sum
mer he played shows at White 
Barn and toured with the Pitts
burgh Pops.
Strand
Starting Wednesday, Nov. 6 
4-DAYS-ONLY 
X*-----------1 >
MELINA ANTHONY 
MERCOURI PERKINS
.uv4*5T 
to 
JULES  violent dr&ma 
DASSIN'S of profane love
PROOUCTION Of
PHAEDRA
feuTnwutu rr A*RRN ncrvats V*OL*UuNAME
ALWAYS TWO BIG HITS
Jontph E. Lenar
SOPHIA LOREN
fe tamtam too 
Technicolor* and Techniranu 70mm * 
Strating Wednesday, Nov13
haW.MWo pB6oB8-
and
hmS6 omW962m D8M2p6h
683-6992
BULLETIN BOARD
mHEuFIG
Thistles will be distributed once 
again this week, Monday through 
Friday, in the AH lobby from 
8:30 to 4:30. All persons who have 
purchased these books are re
quest to pick them up as soon as 
possible.
o 1 o
Scotch n Soda is now accept
ing students to fill technical jobs 
that are open. We need a choreog
rapher, stage manager, assistant 
stage manager, lighting director, 
technical director, props and cos
tume directors, and running crew. 
These jobs are open to anyone 
on campus. If you are at all in
terested, drop a line about yourself and the job to Scotch n Soda, 
Box 258, care of campus mail.
pY1uGNlAFElG pITR
The Conservative Club will hold 
a meeting on Tuesday, November 
12, at 4:30 in Room 55 Skibo. The 
discussion will be on the visit of 
Barry Goldwater planned for No
vember 15.
SYsG 6L pITR
The Carnegie Tech Chapter of 
the American Home Economics 
Association is holding its first 
meeting on Wednesday, Novem
ber 6, at 3:30 in Breed Hall. The 
topic of this months program is 
The International Student, and 
the speaker will be from the
K--M prtMAliMARGARET ROBERT FIORA
* RUTHERFORD MORLEY ROBSON
|U AGATHA CHRISTIE'S
FORVM
p O R R  S AT SHADY ,M
Between Classes or at Study Break 0 0 0
- SCOTTY'S -
prtM Ap ltiOt Rp 
ST Hpil D YDR
4Vy3 iP8(6o B$62W6
0 0 0 and 0 0 0
8PWm6 30 2P8mS Pi 6m2B 5Vy3 D622 B$60
NOW A DEVASTATING MOTION PICTURE
Charle slBr
next tuesday thru Saturday 
except thrusday 
porter hall 100  7:00  9:30 
admission 50c
Pittsburgh council for Interna
tional Students. All Home Ec. 
students are invited to come and 
dues will be collected immediately 
preceding the program.
mGLH 9AsGu
The regular monthly meeting of 
the Tech Dames organization will 
be held on Tuesday, November
12th at 8:15 p.m. in Skibo. Dr.^ 
Albert W. Corcoran, Jr., Certified 
obstetrican and gynecologist from 
Brookline, will address the group 
on the Uses of Hypnosis in Medi
cine. The wives of all Tech stu
dents, graduate and undergrad
uate, are cordially invited to at
tend.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HAMBURGER & PIZZA SHOP
  
HAMBURGER - 15< 
PIZZA  10* per cut
 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMITORIES
(Min. Order $1.50)
Open Weekdays Friday and Saturday
10 a.m. - 2 a.m.10 a.m. - 3 a.m.
3IA 1-7388 MU 2-8466
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
 DANIELLE DARRIEUX  ALAIN DELON FERNANDEL  MELL FERRER  .CLAUDE DAUPHIN
 CHARLES AZNAVOUR  MICHELINE PRESLE
 FRANOISE ARNOUL  JEAN CLAUDE BRIALY
 MADELEINE ROBINSON MICHEL SIMON  
LOUIS DE FUNES  DANY SAVAL  LINO VEN
TURA  GEORGE WILSON 
A SUCCESSFUL 
VENTURE IN THE 
FIELD OF LIGHT 
ENTERTAINMENT!
Winsten, N.Y. Post
The spice of the film 
is in its variety ... 
directed with 
consummate skill 
by Julien Duvivier.
Cameron, Daily New*
Humor and 
poignancy and 
brilliant vignettes 
by superb players.
Crist, Herald Tribune
STARTS TODAY
PURE CINEMA 
MAGIC . . . 
warm, human and 
humorous . . . hilarious 
in the extreme!
Gilbert, N.Y. Mirror
Entertaining 
Paris import!
Pelswiok, Journal 
American
SATAN SCORES AS 
A PRANKSTER!
A jovial Satan has 
seven mischevious 
pranks to play on 
Mankind and a 
delighted audience:
Cook, World Telegram
The Devil  10 Commandments
the/n' // p MURRAY AT BEACON heeeeve JA. 1-0700
DAILY   S  10 
SAT. SUN., t  4      10
THE MOST REFRESHING MOVIE r GAIETY IN TOWN!Leslie CARNEG A IST UAOFSITR isCONTINUOUS, SLY AND HEARTY!"
Alton Cook, World Tefegrom
FABLES OF LOVE
Bossano Bm  Monica Vitti * Charles C,hlTcGB
ADDED FEATURETTE
BpB96) BOB89 S
OM2268
A TRIBUTE TO**
DYLAN THOMASFeaturing
RICHARD BURTON
The Shadyside
5518 Walnut St.
682-1901
NOW
SHOWING
/
I
h

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 6, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  rage *
Mens Dorm Council Decides 
Fate of Wet Dorm Parties
Tomorrow evening dorip residents are asked to vote on 
the fate of wet dorm parties. Polling places will be set up in 
Hammerschlag and Donner Halls from 7:00-A.M. till midnight. 
As a result of the new state liquor law no one under 21 will 
^be served. Dean of Men, Ellis, and Housing Head, Tipker have
repeatedly stated that this law*---------------------------------------------------------
will be strictly enforced. Only 66 
residents would be served, while 
765 would pay the bill.
This is one of the several prob
lems porm Council is seeking to 
solve this year. The noise of roar
ing motorcycles is another. These 
study-disturbing machines have 
^been tearing down Margaret Mor
rison Street and down behind 
Donner Hall. The Council warned 
cyclists that if - complaints con
tinue it will be forced to notify 
the Pittsburgh Police.
In other areas Vice President 
Justin Polulack is gathering ideas 
for more attractive parties. Ham^merschlag representatives, Don 
Smith and John Spare, report 
study conditions there are much 
better than last year. Several 
members initiated a motion to 
thank Don Scipione, Larry Sulak,
Claymore Clan and all the others 
who worked on the dorms Fall 
Festival display. This is the first 
in several years. Council also 
plans to encourage a Spring Car
nival booth.
Mens Dorm Council holds its 
open meetings on Tuesday at 4:30 
in the Scobel Hall lounge. Presi
dent Tom Miller and Treasurer 
Duane Smith were elected last 
spring. Vice President Polulack, 
Recording Secretary Spare and 
Corresponding Secretary Bob 
Lewis were elected last month. 
There are 10 other voting mem*|.bers of the council.
AEPhi Shoe Shine
All the shined shoes on campus 
are the product of a charity drive 
sponsored by Alpha Epsilon Phi. 
The sorority wishes to thank all 
the men on campus who helped 
make this drive a success. The 
proceeds from the drive were 
I ^given to the home for crippled 
! children.
Fairless Series 
Op ens Thurs.
(continued from page 2)
established were Roger Blough, 
chairman of the board of United 
States Steel, and George Love, 
chairman of the board of Consoli
dated Coal.
The purpose of the fund is to 
support lectures to be delivered by 
outstanding authorities on busi
ness administration, economics, 
business and government, man
agement and labor, and related 
subjects. The lectures are arrang
ed through the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration.
Mr. Fairless, in whose honor the 
lecture fund was established, was 
a long-time friend of Carnegie 
Tech and served on its board of 
trustees for ten years. He was 
named honorary chairman of the 
board in 1959 and was a leader 
and co-chairman of Techs $32 
million development program 
from its begining in 1957.
Oxford: Topic 
Of Assembly
Students and faculty who 
would like to learn more about 
Oxford University, including its 
regular and summer programs 
and summer work offered by 
other British universities, will 
have an opportunity to do so on 
November 19.
On that day, Mr. F. V. Pickstock, Deputy Secretary of the 
Oxford University Delegacy for 
Extra-Mural Studies, will visit 
the campus. All who would like to 
talk with him are invited to come 
to the Music Room in Skibo on 
Tuesday, Nov. 19, at 4:15 p.m.
Pika Entertains Guests YMCA - YWCA
r, r n .Sponsor SeriesFrom India and Brazil f FiresUes
On Wednesday, October twenty-seventh, Pi Kappa Alpha played dinner host to Mr. Hiten Bahya of India, and Mr. Julio The YMCA and 'WCA are 
Rabeiro of Brazil who are taking part in the MPX (Manageaain sponsoring a series of Inment Program for Executives) at Pitt. After dinner Mssrs. 
Bahya and Rabeiro discussed education, business, and com
munism in their own countries* 
with the brothers.
The educational systems of the 
two countries differ a great deal 
from our own. Thirty years ago in 
India most students majored in
4
f\JUeicome .Students
1 HOUR DRY (LEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT LAUNDRY 
FLUFF DRY LAUNDRY
For Service and Quality at 
Reasonable Prices Visit:
 
MARGET MOBAFBIT
One Block from Morewood Ave.
Open Dedly from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
liberal arts or medicines, but to
day, business and engineering stu
dies are becoming popular. Pre
sently, India does not have com
pulsory education, but Mr. Bahya 
thought that as the country pro
gressed further and could afford 
the schools and teachers, compul
sory education would appear. Cur
rently Indian universities are gov
ernment owned and are centered 
in the major cities, but the In
dian states would like to see a 
university within each state.
The Brazilian universities are 
also state owned, but, instead of 
being huge educational complexes 
like the Indian universities or our 
own, the separate colleges of the 
Brazilian universities are often 
geographically far apart.
Neither country has fraterni
ties, but the student unions are 
very powerful. Mr. Rabeiro com
mented that such unions can even 
make the college change the con
tents of exams and have at times 
organized nationwide student 
strikes against the universities. He 
also stated that, although we hear 
a great deal about such student 
demonstrations, the student unions 
are not really strong politically 
and dont seem to leave a lasting 
impression once the student leaves 
the university.
Brazil is a prime target for 
communism because of its great 
size, resources, and present pov
erty. The communists are trying 
to gain control of the unions and 
to infiltrate the government, but
ternational Firesides during the 
month of November. Meeting in 
faculty homes, the firesides pro
vide an opportunity for both 
American and overseas students 
to have good conversation in aa 
informal atmosphere.
Firesides this month will begin
Mr. Rabeiro thought that they 
werent being too successful be
cause of the very predominant in
fluences of the Catholic Church 
and the peoples loyalty to the , 8-00 p.m. and end at 10:00 p.m., ,  , . . (Freshmen girls may take a cul-present government. He leels that. ,ural specia, for tr a In order (<>
the Brazilian elections in 1965 may j nsure a sman group t0 make in.
bring in a dynamic government formal conversation possible, each
that will take a firmer stand Fireside will be limited to eight
against communism. j students; n Americans and four, , . , overseas students. ReservationsW en questioned about socialke taken on a first come first
istic tendencies in India, Mr. served basis, thus interested stuBahya replied that it wTas necdents should sign up quickly, 
essary for several reasons. Most | The three faculty families who 
private foreign investments go are opening their homes for Fireinto consumer goods production in ! sides in November are: for Sunwhich the entire investment can day, November 10, Dr. and Mrs. 
normally be recouped in a few j Robert Schwartz; for Friday, Noyears, rather than into heavy inj vember 15, Mr. and Mrs. R. D. 
dustry in which ten to fifteen Strathmeyer; and for Sunday, Noyears may be needed to recoup vember 17, Mr. and Mrs. Denton 
the investment. Since India needs Beal. Dr. Schwartz is Associate 
the heavy industry to supply the Professor of History; he has visit - 
consumer industries, the governed Europe four times since the 
ment supplies the necessary capwar and is especially interested 
ital. The companies are owned by, in social and political movements
the government which stands any 
losses the company incurs but also 
receives any profits the company 
makes. In addition Mr. Bahya, 
who is himself an executive in a 
government-owned steel plant, 
pointed out that such companies 
are more or less showpieces, and, 
if the company shows a loss due 
to inefficient management, the 
managers will be replaced, pos
sibly. faster than in our country.
Both guests expressed disap
pointment that the intensity of 
their course at Pitt kept them 
from seeing much of Pittsburgh 
and even from meeting regular 
students. Their visit to PiKA had 
been their first chance to meet 
anyone outside of their classes in 
the weeks they have been here.
such as fascism, socialism, com
munism, etc. Mr. Strathmeyer is 
Vice President for Business Af
fairs of Tech; his interests are 
broad and cover much ground 
such as the Algiers school system. 
Mr. Beal is the Director of Public 
Relations and Editor of the CARNEGIS ALUMNUS Magazine. His 
interests are music and literature. 
He has visited Japan.
Specific directions for reaching 
the homes of the faculty hosts, 
with transportation arranged, will 
be sent to the students who signed 
up for each evening when they are 
notified that they have been ac
cepted as one of the eight stu
dents for a particular Fireside. 
Contact the Y office in 57 Skibo 
for information and reservations.
Its asnapwith
-ARROWdFor want of  horre, 
the battle war lort...
so said the poet, but never let 
it be said that for want of a 
collar button your date was lost. 
The new Decton oxford Tabber 
Snap by ARROW gives you the 
trim, good looks of a tradition?1 
tab collar without the fuss 
and fumble of a collar button, 
Tapered to trim body lines 
and labeled Sanforized-Plus* 
to ensure perfect fit washing 
after washing.
Keep that date in an ARROW 
Decton (65% Dacron*, 35% 
cotton) oxford with Tabber 
Snap collar.
In long sleeves 
$6.95
*DuPont T.M. for itt polyester fiber
* \ f' f ir___ . .. A > * - v  M
VI*|j Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
M10CommandoCso kmC1L0oE oG WKo0-L0oE-' 
W41K0oE Ivy N4EK4 W-L0C*0-
i LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
|| CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
OPEN MONDAY, WEDNESDAY & FRIDAY TILL 9:00 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, Novemebr 6, 1963
Playing For School Just Isnt Done, 
Says Tartan Coach
Tech Football Stars On Fraternity Field
The above headline introduced the fol
lowing article by Jack McNatara in the 
Pittsburgh Weekly Sports on Monday, Nov.
4. It war written after Carnegie Tech had 
defeated Franklin and Marrhall College, 
35-24 during Fall Fertival week-end.
Carnegie Tech Just 
Breeds Eggheads
By JACK McNAMARA
Thousands cheered! (well, dozens, any
way) as the home team raced downfield 
under the wobbling kickoff.
A balloon floated phylegmatically over 
the grandstand, proclaiming in inch-high 
block letters that the local arm of the Amer
ican Chemical Society was in a solid state be
hind the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
On a hillside overlooking the athletic 
field, a few hundred students twirled sliderules and were above it all.
IT WAS ANOTHER rambling Home
coming Day for the wrecks of Carnegie 
Tech.
When the torn-up student activity cards 
cleared, CITs Volunteer Football Depart
ment (0-4) had beaten the atoms out of 
Franklin & Marshall College (1-2).
For the Tartans, it was the first victory of 
the season, the second in two seasons, and 
the third in the last three.
Its remarkable that were able to beat 
anybody, remarked Joe Gasparella, a form
er Notre Dame and Pittsburgh Steeler 
Quarterback, now serving his first hitch as 
Techs head coach. We have no football 
scholarships here, and no support from the 
student body.IN FACT/ he added, at this school its 
IN to be against football, or anything thats 
in vogue.
They have fun ridiculing those who vol
untarily give up study time to practice foot
ball about an hour-and-a-half a day, said 
Joe. Playing football for the school just 
isnt done here.With their schedule packed with teams 
that give athletic rides to football players, 
and who do have student support, its re
markable that Carnegie Tech keeps showing 
up for games.We scramble every fall to fill the uni
forms, said Gasparella, sadly. We have 35 
players, but only 16 have ever played foot
ball before they came out for the team.
WHEN THEY LOSE, which is usually,
their classmates make jokes about how high 
to heaven one football team can stink.
I really admire these players, said Gas
parella. Some of them take a worst beating 
on the campus than they do on the field.
If Carnegie Tech had a football hero, he 
would be a quiet, bespectacled senior in elec
trical engineering, a student named A1 
Abels.
A former Homestead High halfback, he 
gained 110 yards rushing at the F&M line 
last Saturday, picked up another 73 yards 
on kick-off returns, and caught five passes 
for 59 yards and two touchdowns.
SO FAR THIS season, Abels has caught 
18 passes, top for the team. In four seasons, 
the 5-7, 155 pound workhorse has gained 
more than 1,300 yards rushing  and a 
movement at Tech.
Sometimes it gets to you, he confessed, 
healthy disrespect for the anti - athletics 
That crowd out there today isnt typical. 
Its Homecoming, and most of them came to 
the game only because the library was 
closed.
This school breeds eggheads, Abels de
cleared. Most of them wont be fit to do any
thing but research. Theyll have to put them 
in a small laboratory room and slide the 
paychecks under the door.
According to Abels, there are quite a few 
big, well-coordinated young men toting 
books around Techs campus who wouldnt 
be caught dead toting a football for CIT.
THE BIG THING here is to star for the 
fraternity team in the intramurals, he said. 
The varsity players are considered odd. 
The spunky Tech halfback, who ranks in 
the middle of his class, plays football because 
he likes the game. Theres another reason, 
too:I think theres more to life, he said. All 
of the answers arent in the library.
A fraternity man himself, Abels says most 
of Techs athletically-gifted men pass up the 
football team to play fraternity ball because
itd a QtiltlK thirjcf
WE COULD FIELD a pretty strong team, 
if we could get some of that talent out for 
football. But I dont think the eggheads 
would pay attention even if we won em all. 
At one end of the football field, a group 
of eggheads were wrestling with a huge ban
ner that called for CIT to BRING BACK 
BIG TIME FOOTBALL.
Somebodys idea of a sick joke, explain
ed Coach Gasparella.
Win or lose, they always leave em laugh
ing at Carnegie Tech.
Puders Write
Requests And Defenses
Student Congress 
Requests Vacation
Editor, the Tartan:
Last year the Executive Board 
of Carnegie Tech approved a 
calendar change eliminating the 
Friday after Thanksgiving as a 
school vacation. We are now 
faced with a one-day vacation 
this Thanksgiving  and the 
calendar for next year, as it now 
stands, includes only a one-day 
break.
Thirteen weeks is a long time 
between the beginning of ichool 
and Christmas vacation. It is a 
strain on faculty and students, 
especially freshmen, many of 
whom had expected to be home 
for Thanksgiving this year. 
Toward the end of such a long 
period the morale of students 
and their general efficiency in 
doing school work degenerates.
With a break at Thanksgiving 
sufficient for a visit home by 
most students the three weeks 
following Thanksgiving will be 
more productive for students 
and faculty. Any students not 
able to travel home would cer
tainly take the opportunity to 
relax for a few days and should
be allowed to remain on campus 
if they desire.
Considering these reasons, and 
recognizing that we must live 
with this years calendar, Stu
dent Congress has proposed that 
the calendar for next year be 
modified to include an appropri
ate Thanksgiving vacation. At 
our October 9 ^meeting the fol
lowing motion was passed unan
imously:
"Be it moved that Student 
Congress recommend to the 
school administration that the 
Friday after Thanksgiving be 
reinstated in the 1964-65 cal
endar as a school vacation, an 
extra day of school to be add
ed to Christmas or Easter va
cation.
This motion and the points 
mentioned above have been for
warded to Dean Brown. Further, 
in an effort to communicate 
more fully our desires we have 
formed delegations to visit each 
member of the Executive Board 
of the Administration. These 
delegations have personally pre
sented our feelings as members 
of the student body of Carnegie 
Tech.
We call on the members of the 
faculty who feel as we do  and 
many have already indicated
they do  to join us in appeal
ing for a Thanksgiving vacation 
next year.
We hope that through these 
Student Congress delegations 
and through our written com
munication the Exectutive Board 
will have sufficient information 
to consider our proposal favor
ably.
Thomas N. Pyke, Jr.
Chairman, Student Congress
Hawkins Defends 
His Position
Editor, the Tartan:
I wish to acknowledge the let
ters from Matt and Justin in 
reply to mine that appeared in 
the last Tartan. Matts letter 
brings out well the problem I 
suggested in my letter that or
ganizations as well as individ
uals are often asked to do things 
that are above their formal ob
ligations. I feel that Mens Dor
mitory Council was placed in 
this position and did not rise to 
the occasion. I only contend that 
had they done so it would have 
been beneficial for the whole 
campus, for the dormitory stu(continued on page 5)
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Civil Wrongs
Presently before congress is legislation that its pro
ponents claim is a partial solution to the longstanding in
justices that have been done to persons who happen to be 
Negro. For the purposes of this discussion assume that the 
proposed bills will help remedy the injustice, and that in
justice has, in fact, been done.
Arguments presented by the opponents of legislation 
who accept the assumptions are that property rights or con
stitutional rights will be violated if the proposed concepts 
are put into law. However, I believe that the essential op
posing argument is more basic than these. Human rights 
(if man can be said to have rights) will be violated by the 
public accommodations section. If a man is forbidden to do 
what he pleases with what he owns (subject to the direct 
harm limitation previously discussed), he is being denied 
the right to choose his own path in lifean essential right.
It is one thing for society to condemn a persons for 
being a bigot (a legitimate function of society), and an
other thing to try to force the bigoted person to act differ
ently. In the case of civil rights legislation, as it is directed 
against individuals, society would be putting a moral judg
ment into law simply because a majority holds the particular 
opinion. Then government becomes no more than a tyranny 
of the majority.
Where Negroes are not beirig treated equally under 
the law, they, and all concerned persons, should protest. 
But no person can claim the right to make another person 
perform a service for him-even if the reason given for not 
performing the service is one that is intellectually repug
nant.
Robert Bork, writing in the August 31 issue of the 
New Republic, made several statements that are worth 
repeating:
.. . the danger is that justifiable abhorrence of racial 
discrimination will result in legislation by which 
the morals of the majority are self-righteously im
posed upon a minority . . . The discussion we 
ought to hear is of the cost in freedom that must 
be paid for such legislation ( the morality of enforc
ing morals through law, and the likely consequences 
for law enforcement of trying to do so. (I do not 
agree that the third is relevant.)
... It is not whether racial prejudice or preference 
is a good thing but whether individual men ought 
to be free to deal and associate with whom they 
please for whatever reasons appeal to them. This 
time stubborn people with ugly customs are 
under attack rather than intellectuals and academi
cians; but that sort of personal comparison surely 
ought not to make the difference.
Another column will be written discussing so-called 
civil rights. It is vital that the implications of the proposals 
be recognized.
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU.- 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor in-Chief .............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor......................#.................B. J. Barrera
Managing Editor ...................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ..................................Michael McCoy
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
News Editor...................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor ..............................Alma Rock
Features Editor.........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ...............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager -..............................John Norris
Sports Editor .....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ....................................Tom Johnson/Editorial Board: Charles Hofook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva.
News Staff: Dale Chodorow, Bob Fritz, Callie Gilleland, Miriam Gillespie, Tom 
Glassberg, Bob Griscom, Karen Mihm, Marti Moore, Marion Mulligan, Jim 
Panepinto, EHisa Parker, Peggy Riva, Penny Ross, Gretchen Smith, Bob 
Wohlford.
Features Staff: Je/Trey Axelrad, Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg, Martha Hodgson, 
Arlene Kadish, Marion Mulligan, Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells, Stephen Yafa. 
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, Randy French, A1 Green,
Chris Macosko.
Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Craig Edwards, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely 
Philoi:,ky, Ted Pierce, Marion Mulligan.
Copy staff: Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Jane Keeler, Mary Lou 
Recco, Ginny Salko Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty, Verna 
Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Photo: Jim Nichol, liass Stinebaugti, Dick Osman.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarian Beth Carten, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, 
Carol Karnell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino
grad, Carol Young.
I'ircalation Staff: George Kail, J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin.

---------------------------------------------------

*Dr . Emmerich 
Gives Talk 
I ToAICE
Wednedy, November 6, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
Dr. W. S. Emmerich, Manager 
f the Magnetohydrodynamics 
Section of the Westinghouse Re
search Laboratories, will discuss 
Plasmas and Ultra-High Tem
peratures at a meeting of the Pi 
Pittsburgh Section of the Ameri
can Institute of Chemical En
gineers.
The meeting will be held today 
at 8:00 p.m. in SKIBO following 
a dinner at 6:30 p.m.
# Dr. Emmerich developed the 
first combustion-fired magnetohydrodynamic generator and holds 
holds a basic patent on electric 
arc chambers for supersonic wind 
tunnel applications. Dr. Emmerich 
is also well-known as the devel
oper of' a formula for prepared 
mustard, now marketed under the 
trade name Mister Mustard.
BehindCongress Scenes
Campus activities must submit their annual reports to 
Student Congress Activities Committee by 4:30 p.m., Novem
ber 27, or be declared inactive. Organizations now considered 
inactive, unless they notify Chairman Andrea Vidakovic 
otherwise, are Chess Club, Tech Activities Club, Gamma Ep
silon Tau, Tau Sigma Delta, Phi Mu Epsilon and the Metho
dist Campus Ministry. ?--------------------------------------------
Hawkins States Intention
All groups failing to submit retember is now open to interested
Scotch /i Soda 
Presents One
Again* Scotch n Sida presents 
one more of the Scotch n Soda 
board.
Carole Haber is cast represen
tative for S n S. She is a senior i 
m at Tech and is coming back next 
year for graduate studies in his
tory education. She has been a . 
member of the board for two j 
years and has been in the S n S 
cast for four years.--------------------------------------------------------Illlllllillllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllll
ports will be unable to (1) use 
Skibo facilities, (2) receive Con
gress funds, (3) sponsor any cam
pus programs or (4) obtain any 
funds on account with the school. 
Reports should be mailed to Stu
dent Congress, care of the Activi
ties Committee. For forms and 
further information call Chair
man Vidakovic, 682-4483.
At Wednesdays Committee 
Heads meeting Tom Douglas of 
Union Committee reported a stu
dent request for a juke box in the 
Skibo snack bar. A poll will be 
taken at todays open Congress 
meeting to give the juke box a 
trial run. Those intereseted snack 
bar patrons may make their voices 
heard at the meeting.
Joe Sandulli announced that 
the position of Freshman Orien
tation Week Chairman next Sepsophomores and juniors. Appli
cations are due 4:30 p.m. Novem
ber 14. Call Sandulli for further 
information.
Ben Porter, Fall Festival Chair
man, reported 813 tickets were 
sold for the weekend, well above 
last year. Betsy Bealke has been 
named Vice Chairman of Spring 
Carnival. And, there were hushed 
murmurings from the General 
Campus Committee, the group 
leading the Congress ECOFAT 
drive (Eliminate Classes On Fri
day After Thansgivingat least 
next year). The murmurings may 
become audible at todays meet
ing.
* ELECTRONICS 
RESEARCH
LINCOLN LABORATORY
HAu YwG1E1Uu nYN A 
IEsEFGt 1TsRGN Yn G1: 
r UE1GGNur wHguELEuFu A1t 
sAFHGsAFELEA1u0
LINCOLN LABORATORY,
A NGuGANLH LG1FGN Yn FHG 
)AuuALHTuGFFu M1uFEFTFG Yn 
mGLH1YIYUgr Eu G1UAUGt E1 
NGuGANLH A1t tGlGIYw! 
sG1F E1 AtlA1LGt GIGL
FNY1ELur dEFH GswHAuEu Y1 
AwwIELAFEY1u FY 1AFEY1AI 
tGnG1uG A1t uwALG 
GcwIYNAFEY10
B .B(P8BmP8 86D86o62mBmM$6 
OM.. M2m68$M6O BDD.MpB2mo
Nov. 8th
pP2oW.m mS6 pB)DWo D.Bp6)62m 
PiiMp6 M2 B9$B2p6
.M2pP.2 .B(P8BmP8
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
BOX 21  LEXINGTON 71 
MASSACHUSETTS
niiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
SO WHAT 
W HE LOOKS 
LIKE A 
MISSISSIPPI 
RIVER BOAT 
GAMBLER !
HE STILL 
HAS 
THE BEST 
SELECTION 
OF 
TIES 
IN TOWN !
lumraiig
Pitt Campus 
ander Schenley Dormitories 
3939 Forbes Ave. Pgh. 13, Pa. 
)W0 4:f5v5
(continued from page 4a 
dents, and in the spirit of an all
school event.
Justin mentioned this idea of 
formal duty in his letter also. 
In addition, through the stench 
of his rhetoric, one is aware of 
an argument that MDC did not 
chip in because the large ma
jority of the dormitory residents 
seldom go to jam sessions. If 
they think this is true then their 
behavior is understandable. 
However, I would guess that 
this amounts to an inaccurate 
indictment of these men. But 
these two issues are the relevant 
ones and your readers must 
weigh them for themselves.
This would be the end of the 
matter then, except that Justin, 
in his impulsivness, has chosen 
to slander me personally and 
take picayune exceptions to my 
reporting of the facts. (It is in
teresting that he should accuse 
me of the unsubtle slur.) My 
sources were members of the 
Council itself. Two of them sug
gested that maybe the fraternity 
participation was a factor. My 
facts wTere all correct in their 
implications. For instance, I was
wrong about the income from 
dorm fees equaling $5,000; but, 
in fact, the total budgeted in
come for MDC for this year is 
$5,025. They have sources of in
come in addition to the dorm 
fees that I was not aware of. 
Whether they were asked for 
$50, $100, or $125, I doubt the 
sincerity of his argument that 
the price for the group was too 
high because the Council voted 
down the idea in principle. They 
never offered to support a less 
expensive band or contribute a 
fixed amount (like $50) instead 
of a Vh share.
In short my intention was not 
to smear anyone; but, rather to 
assure the men on the Council 
that other students were very 
much aware of their actions and 
concerned by any sign of a re
fusal to cooperate among the 
various govening bodies. I know 
several of the Council personally 
and would not want to smear 
them or the group. I wonder, 
on the other hand, what im
pression readers must get from 
the rash action of Mr. Polulack.
Bob Hawkins
Sr., I.M.
november is, 1963
Research | Development Engineering I Man
ufacturing (Engineering) I Programming I 
Marketing/Sales I Systems Engineering I
If you cannot attend the interview, | 
write or call: I 
W. J. Deskin, Branch Manager I 
IBM Corp. I 421 7th Avenue I 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa. I CO 1-6880. I
interview:
"The future depends on people with ideas.
This statement helps explain the work at IBM 
today: seeking and finding new ways to handle 
information, planning and building new machin
ery for the task, exploring wholly new methods. 
I The demand for ideas has never been greater.
If youd like to check into the new things going on 
at IBMand the significant professional oppor
tunities opening up there for men and women 
see your college placement officer and make an 
appointment to talk with IBM representatives. I 
IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. I
MOVE AHEAD-SEEIBM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, November 6, I96T
Tech Receives Ten New Grants 
For New and Current Research
Carnegie Institute of Technology has received ten grants 
totaling over $325,000 from the National Science Foundation 
and the National Institute of Health. Six of the grants are 
for research currently in progress and four are for new re
search to be started this fall ?-7~7 rr ~ 77 : ,  e r-of chemistry; Synthesis of 3-SubTech Weekly Assembly Program 
Presents Middle East Mystery99
Eight of the projects are in the 
College of Engineering and Sci
ence, one in the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration, and 
one in the Department of Psycho
logy.
The new research studies in the 
College of Engineering and Sci
ence are New Structures in Al
loys and Semiconductor Materi
als, being directed by Dr. R. L. 
Longini, professor of solid state 
electronics; A Synthetic Compu
ter Language for Sanitary Engin
eering, directed by Dr. George 
Bugliarello, associate professor of 
civil engineering; and Dislocation 
Arrays in FCC Metals, under the 
direction of Dr. W. H. Robinson, 
associate professor of metallurgic
al engineering.
Projects in progress and receiv
ing continued support are Wave 
Phenomena in Viscous and Magnetoviscous Fluids, directed by 
Dr. W. F. Hughes, associate pro
fessor of mechanical engineering 
and Dr. W. T. Rouleau, associate 
professor of mechanical engineer
ing; Thermochemical Investiga
tions, under the direction of Dr. 
L. G. Hepler, associate professor
Panel Centers 
On Problem 
Discrimination
Panel of Americans will take 
over this weeks assembly pro
pram to be held in the Wherret 
Room at 11:30 a.m. on November 
12th. The panel will consist of a 
Protestant, a Catholic, a Jew, a 
Negro, and a moderator. Each 
representative of a particular 
racial or religious sect will give 
a short speech on the problems 
of their particular group.
The program will then be taken 
up with discussion and questions 
between the audience and the 
panel.
Panel of Americans was found
ed at UCLA during World War 
II to combat prejudice and dis
crimination toward Japanese and 
Negroes. The Panel now has 
nearly 100 chapters throughout 
the country. The Tech chapter, 
the only one in the area, speaks 
to many civic groups and tries 
to stimulate thinking on the prob
lem of racial and religious dis
crimination.BERMUDA
COLLEGE WEEK
1964
MARCH 22 APRIL 11
Everyday packed with action'* 
...new friends...fun!
-------------------------------------
S17Hi.Get acquainted danc. 
(Wear Bermudas!) >10.^1. 
College Day at the beach. Tal
bot Brothers Calypso, College 
Queen Contest, barbecue lunch. 
TIES.  Jazz session. Limbo 
contest, buffet lunch. WED.
 Cruft to St. George, Steel 
Band entertainment, Gombey 
dancers, refreshments. 
THlRS.-On your own: 
swim, shop, sightsee, sports. 
FBI.  College Week Revue 
entertainment. Tennis finals.
___________________________
AU these... and lots more 
complimentary activities!
See your 
 Campus Organizer now ! <
Tb* Bermuda Trade Development Board 
#20 Fifth Avenu, New York, N.X 10020
stituted Pyrrolidine Derivatives, 
directed by Dr. Philip L. Southwick, professor of chemistry; 2, 6-Disubstituted Phenylhydrazones 
in the Fischer Indole Synthesis, 
under the direction of Dr. Robert 
B. Carlin, Bocker Professor and 
head of the department of chem
istry; and Detailed Characteris
tics of the Flow of Blood, direct
ed by Dr. Bugliarello.
The other new project to begin 
this fall is a study of Decision 
Making and Dynamic Economic 
Models, being directed by Dr. 
John F. Muth, associate professor 
of economics and industrial ad
ministration in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra
tion.
The grant in psychology was 
made for a continuing project on 
Adrenal Glands and Emotional 
Behavior, bein conducted by 
Dr. K. E. Moyer, professor of 
psychology.
Middle East Mystery was the title of Ernest Kehrs 
talk at the weekly Tech assembly October 29. Mr. Kehr, for
eign correspondent for the New York Herald Tribune, has 
made over a thousand radio and TV appearances, written 
articles for such prominent magazines as Life, Look, and 
Time, has been named moste 
traveled newsman by his col
leagues.
The seven countries of the Mid
dle East  Israel, Lebanon, Saudi 
Arabia, Turkey, Egypt, Iraq, and 
Iran  make up a natural land 
bridge between Eastern Africa, 
Asia, and Europe. Mr. Kehr de
scribes this are as clouded with . _ , ,. ...~~  , j Lareas in Egypt, stirring revolt inmystery and an area misunder____,__________j
the two world Wars the Middle 
Eastern countries became mere 
pawns which the more powerful 
nations used to promote their own 
interests.
Communist innitration has been 
high in these Middle East nations 
since 1937 when communist propa
gandists moved into low income
stood by most Americans. He as
serted that a study of the history 
and cultural background of these 
countries is necessary to a deeper 
understanding of their present day 
troubles.
It was in this area of the world 
that our civilization was actually 
born; at one time Egypt had the 
most highly developed culture 
known. In more recent centuries 
these countries have been colo
nized by the great empires, not
ably France and Britain. During
Kosciuszko Foundation Offers 
Undergraduate Essay Contest
An all-expense six weeks tour of Poland, valued at $1,000 
heads the list of awards totaling $2,250, which the Kosciuszko 
Foundation of New York is offering in an essay contest to 
undergraduate students of accredited American colleges and 
universities during the current school year. The awards will 
be given for the best essays sub-4
mitted no later than May 15, 1964 
on the to]5ic: The Meaning of 
Polands Millennium.
Manuscripts are to run from 
2-3,000 words, exclusive of foot
notes and bibliographies. They 
are to be typed on 8V2 x 11 bond 
paper. All prize winning essays 
become the property of the Foun
dation which reserves the right 
to publish all or any part of them. 
A letter from each applicants
registrar is a requisite, confirming 
enrollment
Awards include a second prize 
of $500 cash, five third prizes of $100 each, and 10 honorable men
tions at $25 each. Winners will 
be announced on or before Octo
ber 17, 1964.
Complete information on the 
project may be obtained from the 
Kosciuszko Foundation, 15 East 
65th Street, New York 21, New 
York.
Fed. Tax 
IncL*3 3000
Special College Time Payments Available
OUR DIAMONDSCOPE: Each diamond is 
gem tested and registered as to color, cut
ting, clarity and carat weight for your 
protection. No doubt your great, great 
Grandmothers Diamond came from 
Roberts.
John M. Roberts & Son Co.
k 4 oFYNGu k
Downlown
bJV OYYt oF0
East Hills
oHYwwE1U pG1FGNMl. Lebanon
2GcF FY SYN1G,u
the under-fed, poorly housed 
workers. Significant red gains 
were also made when the Nazis 
agreed to buy sugar and cotton 
from Egypt, products which are 
the basis of Egypts economy and 
which sure had trouble finding 
markets for when she broke rela
tions with the British Common
wealth.
The seven countries of the Mid
dle East today are seven units
struggling against each other for 
supremacy. Mr. Kehr pointed cut 
that communism is at work in al
most all seven countries, threat
ening to undermine their govern
ments. While a few of the coun
tries are already under commu
nist control, many lower income 
workers, previously swayed by 
communist promises, are now re
jecting communism because it is 
based on atheism.
From what he has observed on 
numerous personal tours to the 
Middle East, Mr. Kehr describes 
the feelings of these people toward 
the West as tremendously great 
and he claims that they are
anxious for better relations with 
the United States. Mr. Kehr con
cluded his talk, before the near
capacity audience, by describing 
the various fields in which Amer
ican knowledge and manpower is 
needed in the Middle East and the 
many jobs now open there for
Americans.
FROM CAMPUS TO CAMPUS... FROM COAST TO COAST... ^THEY ALL LOVE .THAT
If you can take your nose out of that text book for just a 
moment, youll notice that Yum-Yum has emerged as the most 
stimulating campus sport in many a year. Who needs panty raids 
when you can Yum-Yum under a large tree or in a littlfe sports 
car? Be advised, however, that on rainy days the 
hip prefer their Yum-Yum indoors. (Research 
rooms of libraries and empty field houses are con* 
sidered the choicest locations.)
As youve probably deduced by now, Yum 
Yum is strictly for Him and Her. And in Columbias 
riotous new comedy UNDER THE YUM-YUM 
TREE, (Columbia Pictures, not Columbia University) Yum-Yum 
is developed into a high art form by its greatest practitioner, 
Hogan.
Hogan, hilariously portrayed by Jack Lemmon, is a lecherous 
landlord who rents apartments to attractive girls and goes from 
door to door with a heart-shaped passkey. One of the tenants is 
Carol Lynley, a curvy co-ed who is conducting a cozy experiment 
in platonic, pre-marital co-habitation. (Its all in the interests 
of science.) Dean Jones is her nervous wreck of a fiance and Edio 
Adams is on the premises as the marriage-counseling teacher who 
takes a tumble for Hogan.
Hogans own apartment, happily referred to as The Sin 
Bin, is an electronic ambush-on-virtue that could make etchings* 
obsolete. Theres a violin section, for example, that emerges out 
of nowhere and plays, without benefit of human hands, Music To* 
Make Yum-Yum By. Theres also a bar with 
enough whiskey to refloat the Titanic. But dont 
get Hogan wrong. Jack Lemmon defines Hogan 
as a man who is outraged at humanity. There
fore, everything that seems outlandish and bizarre ,
to the rest of the world, seems perfectly normal to 
him. Hogan cannot understand why the world is so ungrateful to* 
him.
We guarantee its marvelous mayhem and sure-fire ma* 
terial for a term paper on Laughter. It may not earn you an A* 
but what an 'education* when you see Jack Lemmon in Co* 
lumbia Pictures UNDER THE YUM-YUM TREE, co-starring: 
Carol Lynley  Dean Jones  Edie Adams  Imogene Coca  Paul 
Lynd  Robert Lansing and The Yum-Yum Girls.
SEE IT AT A THEATRE IN YOUR CITY!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 6, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e 7
mANFA1 IE1G wNGuG1Fu nYNsEtARIG LYlGNAUG nYRALxnEGIt wIAgu0
Tech Loses Last Home Game 13-8
Tlie disappointment that the few hardy Tech fans felt 
as they left Tech Field on Saturday was not disappointment 
in the Tartan team, but in the weather which had finally 
struck, after two fine days of home football, to provide only 
misery when Washington and Jefferson came to Carnegie.
The Tartans had solidified them-4---------------------------------------------------------
selves defensively early in the 
game and had strengthened offen
sively progressively until the
fourth quarter when A1 Abels led 
an eighty yard touchdown drive, 
but when it was over W & J 
stood ahead, because of two plays, 
13-8.
The gloomy day served to em
phasize the ineffectiveness of both 
offenses throughout the first per
iod and into the second, until, 
on a fourth down, punting situa
tion, the snap from center sailed 
high over Terry Hechlers head 
and bounced back to the Tech 
four yard line. Hechler recovered 
the ball only to be pinned at 
the four by three W & J tacklers.
Tartan defenses held for two 
plays, but on the third, Prexie 
halfback Pete Eaton ran up the 
middle for the score and Ludewig 
converted for a W & J lead of 
7-0.
When the Presidents had once 
again regained the ball a few
plays later, W & J fullback Fred 
Gentile drove up the middle hop
ing for a short gain. Instead he 
found hard blocking and a gaping 
hole which allowed him running 
room on his own thirty yard line, 
from which he proceeded to the 
Tartan twenty where he appeared 
caught by Hechler and end Dave 
DAppolonia. Hechler and DAppolonia collided, however, and 
Gentile raced into the end zone, 
completing a fine seventy-yard 
run. The conversion was wide 
and W & J carried a 13-0 lead 
into half-time.
The third period was again 
quiet, though at times brighter 
and less miserable, but with no 
noticible efficiency from either 
team.
Early in the fourth period, Tech 
began to drive as Abels carried 
for first downs on almost every 
play. W & J defenses proved in
effective, as the Tartans finally 
[continued on page 8]
We all inahe mistakes...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATONS CORRASABLE BOND
Dont meet your Waterloo at the typewriterperfectly 
typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out 
typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. Its 
that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves 
time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasable in 
light, medium, heavy weights and 
Onion Skin in handy 100- 
sheet packets and 500-sheet 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
Corrasable.
B Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION ;**: PITTSFIELD, MASS.
READY
for a Volkswagen? The re
quirements are simple enough 
for any intelligent motorist who 
puts the emphasis on efficient 
operation, low gas consump
tion, low price when new, and 
high resale value. A VW is re
liable in all kinds of weather; 
it brings fun back to driving 
and ease to parking. Are YOU 
ready for your Volkswagen? 
Go to M. W. Motors  Pitts
burghs leading Factory Au
thorized Volkewagen Dealer.
Today's Best Buy 
!vf O pP2$68mM(.6 
$895
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
om0 y:vf5y SW0 f:y3yK
LEARN TO BOX!!
Be a master in the art of self-defense. 
Expert trainers secrets can be yours ! 
No equipment needed. Form a campus boxing 
club among your friends for fun, self-confidence 
and real physical fitness. Complete brochure and 
lessons One Dollar. Send to: 
PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, 
Hempstead, Long Island, New York.
TRAINEES FOR
INDUSTRIAL SALES & MARKETING MANAGEMENT 
TECHNICAL SALES/SERVICE
ENGINEERS...
Ceramic  Chemical  Civil  Electrical 
Industrial  Mechanical  Metallurgical
MAJORS IN...
Chemistry  Economics  Physics 
Business Administration (Marketing)
Americas leading manufacturer of carbon and graph
ite products offers positions to qualified bachelors and 
masters in the fields listed above.
Our products include graphite anodes, electrodes, 
motor and generator brushes, arc carbons and special 
graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide 
variety of industrial applications. v
We serve such key industries as aerospace, alumi
num, automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, 
nuclear, steel, transportation, and the electrical manu
facturers.
Positions are available in our Marketing organiza
tion which covers the 50 states from seven key cities.
A representative will be on campus:
UNION
CARBIDE
2P$6)(68 yV 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION
pB8(P2 D8P9Wpmo 9M$MoMP2
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
COCA-COLA'4 ANO ***** AR *EGISTC*CO TRAD*MARKS WHICH IDENTIFY OMLV TMf PRODUCT OP TMt COCA-COLA COMPAM*8 a.m. calculus... late 
rush...arrive...quiz... 
Eng...read...write... 
... correct... Psych... 
psychotic...neurotic 
Pavlov... bell... lunch whew...pause th #
vOK6
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company byii
QI AKtK STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

FS 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, November 6, 1963
with the man from JPL?National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Runners Beat Titans Win 18th Straight
Neither hail nor sleet nor snow could keep Carnegies 
cross country team from victory. Saturday morning the har
riers made it 18 in a row as they dumped Westminster 22-36 
in freezing weather over the Titans home course.
Titan senior and Western Penn two mile champ. Sammy 
Williams, broke Harry Burkholders string of seven first 
places. Williams set a new Westminster record as Techs
Burkholder, Tom Bednarz and#-----------------------------------------
Chris Macosko pushed him to a 24
minuto 20 second time. Bednarz 
grabbed second at 24:45 and 
Macosko and Burkholder follow
ed right behind. Andy Warsen of 
Westminster kicked to fifth place, 
but Andy Niedra and Mike Engle 
nailed down the meet with sixth 
and seventh. George Crawford 
added ninth, and Herb DAlo elev
enth for Tartan scoring. Ken Phil
lips and Paul Fackler nosed out 
the rest of the Westminster squad.
A heavy snow storm greeted 
the Carnegie teams arrival in 
New Wilmington. Pa. It let up for 
the start of the 4.5 mile race. 
Burkholder led the first 30 mile 
in an almost too fast 4:49. By the 
two mile point it was hailing on 
the tee shirt clad runners. Burk
holder tightened up, lost his long 
swift stride, and Williams took 
the lead. As Macosko and Bednarz 
caught up with Burkholder the 
hail switched to driving snow. 
Over half of the scholarly Car
negie squad wears glasses and 
visibility was rapidly reduced. 
Nearsighted DAlo was afraid to 
try and wipe his glasses off on the 
chance of losing the. Niedras 
hands were so numb he couldnt
WORK IN EUROPE
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Nov. 6
Summer jobs are available for 
students desiring to spend a sum
mer in Europe but who could 
otherwise not afford to do so.
Among available jobs are office 
and sales work, tutoring, life
guard and high paying (to $400 
a month) resort and factory work.
The American Student Infor
mation Service also awards $200 
travel grants to students. Inter
ested students may obtain the 
ASIS 24 page prospectus listing all 
jobs, and a travel grant and job 
application by writing to Dept. N, 
ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Lux
embourg City, Grand Duchy of 
Luxembourg. Send $1 for the 
prospectus and airmail postage. 
The first 8000 inquiries receive a 
$1 credit towards the book, Earn, 
Learn and Travel in Europe.
WHATS
NEW
IN THE NOVEMBER
ATLANTIC?
The Eisenhower Administration: A 
Self Portrait: An assessment by his
torian Oscar Handlin, based in part on 
Ike's new book. Mandate for Change. 
"Book Censorship in Paris: Peter 
Lennon reports on the rigid censorship 
of books and magazines in France. 
The Moment: A poem by Peter 
Davison, this year's winner, Yale Series 
of Younger Poets.
The Nobel Prize Winners: A satire 
on American industrial research com
panies and their status-mongering. by 
W. J. J. Gordon.
PLUS AN ATLANTIC EXTRA 
Blame Me on History: South Afri* 
can Negro journalist. Bloke 
Modisane, tells of his bitter 
Struggle to maintain 
integrity and self-respect
Every month the 
Atlantic provides a 
platform for many of 
the worlds most ar
ticulate and creative 
men and women. The 
result is always enter
taining and informa
tive,often brilliant,oc
casionally profound.
More and more, the 
Atlantic is finding its 
way into the hands of 
discerning readers.
CGF gYTN LYwg FYtAg0SALE
NOW
grab anything. As Burkholder 
kicked into the finish he looked 
like a white old man. Phillips 
crossed the line led as a broiled 
lobster. Macosko kept his hands 
warm with a pair of socks.
Last Wednesday afternoon the 
Tartan Harriers made two lazy 
victories in a triangular meet at 
Waynesburg. They ran over the 
home team 15-50 and St. Vincent 
17-46. Tartans grabbed eight of 
the first nine places with only 
fourth place, Bravin of St. Vin
cent preventing a double shutout. 
Burkholder took first over the 
short 3.4 mile course in 18:27. 
Bednarz placed second in 19:07 
and Niedra third at 19:20. DAlo. 
Crawford, Engle, Fackler and 
Phillips rounded out the Tartan 
scoring.
This afternoon at Washington 
and Jefferson, Tech finished out its 
regular season.
Photo by Jim Pawley
Bu LY:NGL lYIIGgRAII uGAuY1 
1GANu FHG G1tr sG1 A1t dYsG1 
LYsRE1G GnnYNFu nYN uTLLGuu0
Rifle Team 
Loses Match 
On W.V.U. Range
Carnegie Techs varsity rifle 
team visited West Virginia Uni
versity last Saturday and came 
home on the short end of a1434-
1397 score. The loss was no big 
surprise, since W.V.U. has one 
of the countrys outstanding in
tercollegiate rifle teams. Coach
Murphy and the rest of the 
Tartan shooters were a little dis
appointed, however, as most of 
the team shot five or ten points 
below their practice average. 
While a drop in score was ex
pected in the first match, Tech 
did not figure to drop quite so far. 
Mike Knepley was high for Tech 
with a 284 while Bob Fritz turned 
in a 281. Captain Mike Ray and 
Phil Meyers shot 279s and Tuck 
Arnold was the fifth man for Tech 
at 274. Captain Joe Schlitt was 
the big disappointment of the day, 
cropping to 272.
There was one heartening note 
in the match however, Carnegies 
score of 1397 was only one point 
below Techs highest output of
1398 shot during the latter part 
of the62-63 season. In the fu
ture, Tech should be consistenly 
over 1400 and well over many 
opponents.
Cold Fons See * 
W&J Beat Tech
[continued from page 7]
scored with 11:20 left in the game 
on a 13-yard run by Abels. Hechler completed a two-point conver
sion pass attempt to end Dick Fer
guson, and the score read 13-8. ^
With 6:30 left, Hechler punted 
out of bounds on the W&J six. 
The Prexies returned the punt 
four plays later, but only to the 
33 yard line and scoring possibili
ties looked good for the Tartans. 
A penalty set Tech back to the 
48, however, from where they 
could only go to the W & J 2f 
short of a drive-saving first dowif;
The Prexies regained the bait 
with 1:48 left and managed to 
hold out 'until the end to record 
the victory.
TechWash-Jeff
10.......... .10
123___. Yards rushing ....237
. .28
2-10. ...l-f
2............. 2
6-33.8.-19.4
1......... 1
6-60. ..9-97
Did you know that Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory is 
operated by Caltech 
and is responsible for 
Americas unmanned 
exploration of space? 
Are you aware of 
the fact that JPL 
conceived the Mariner 
that went to Venus last 
year? Do you know that 
JPL has 150-acres of the 
finest space facilities with 
1300 scientists and 
engineers and almost 
three support people for 
every one of them? Did 
I tell you that Ive signed 
up for an interview
JET PROPULSION LABORATORY
4800 Oak Grove Drive 
Pasadena, California 
An equal opportunity employer."
Jet Propulsion laboratory ii operated by the
P1 pAswTu M1FGNlEGdujNovember 15, 1963 
Contact University Placement Office for Appointment
