<Tinted Tunes To Tantalize Techites
Elected to the Spring Carnival Queens Court last Friday are Ginny Tennent (I.) Rita Menki (c.) 
and Ann Howard (r.) One of these girls will be crowned queen at Call Day.
Compactness Key 
cTo New Cut Design
By Jack Weinhold
Bright and early Sunday morning before most of campus had 
even begun to think about arising, Ken-Penn Amusement Company 
had started moving their rides and tents onto the Cut. The Midway 
had been staked out on Saturday and all was in readiness for the 
equipment to be set up in its exact location. This year the midway will 
feature four rides that are old#--------------------------------------------------
standards to Tech carnivals and a 
new feature, a fun-house. Going 
/own the Midway from the north 
eild the rides will be Tilt-A-Whirl, 
Ferris Wheel, Rollo-Plane, a funhouse, an Octopus, and a merrygo-round.
The precise planning of the 
midway was all part of this years 
Carnival idea to make the annual 
Tech affair look and feel more 
like a Carnival. Different from 
previous years; the wide gaps be
tween the booths are gone, so that
where ever one stands, he will be 
in the midst of the calls of the 
barkers and the shouts of the 
concessioniers, and all the noise 
and glitter of color and lights 
make a real carnival.
Platform 
In keeping with the idea of de
veloping a more Carnival-like at
mosphere, a platform in the cen
ter of the midway has been add
ed as a new attraction. Just as 
f continued on page 2]
Editors Announced
VOL. 51No. 23 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., APRIL 29, 1958
Panhel Reduces Rushing Time; 
Fran Bebic Elected President
r The last meeting of Panhellenic council proved to be an
important one in that the representatives from the various
sororities selected the officers and decided some of the new
policies for the coming year. ?------------------------------------------------
Named as .ne new president of | Student CoHSreSS 
the group is Fran Bebic, a junior I c?
music major. Fran is a representa
tive from Delta Delta Delta. The 
new vice president, a representa
tive from Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
is Judy Wahl, a junior home eco>mics. The treasurer, Margie 
Snodgrass, represents Delta Gam
ma and is a sophomore majoring 
in home economics. The new sec
retary is Jaycee Hersh, while the 
rush chairman is Gina Murphy.
The former is a sophomore rep
resentative from Alpha Epsilon 
Phi majoring in general studies.
The new rush chairman is a mem
ber of Kappa Alpha Theta and a 
sophomore general studies major, 
r Reduction of Rushing
A major change in the Panhel
lenic policy for the next year is 
the reduction of rushing from 
three to two weeks. This general 
change took place because of com
plaints from the individual soror
ities on the needless length of the 
period, because of the complaints 
from the rushees whose school 
work was being left undone and 
because national Panhel urged a 
( horter period. The new two week 
rush period will be accompanied 
by several other changes, the most 
drastic one being the cutting of 
the informal Bermuda party,
Another idea for next years 
rushing was also discussed. This 
was to add one more party to the 
two parties held as pre-rush gath
erings by senior and junior Pan
hellenic councils. This new party 
would be held in the fall as an in
troduction to the Greeks.
The fact that the Carnegie 
Tech White Book is under revision 
brought about another discussion.
The administration brought to the 
councils attention that while there 
is a rule in the book concerning 
fraternity cocktail parties before 
other scheduled social events, 
there is no rule by which the so
rorities can be governed. The 
eouncil is awaiting the suggestions 
* the various sororities before it 
attempts to design the new rule.
Will Elect New 
Members May 6
Next Tuesday, May 6 at 11:30 
is the time at which each de
partment elects its Student Con
gress representative for the com
ing year.
The elections will be conducted 
by the Congress election commit
tee with a Phi O assistance in the 
following locations: Chem. E.  
EH 2210; E.E.MH 119; M.E. 
PH 100; Met .E.EH 1112; Chem. 
EH1212; Phys.EH 2315; Civil. 
AH 331; Math.PH 215; P. Mgt. 
AH 231; I. Mgt.SIA aud.; 
Arch.FA 212; DramaFA 107; 
MusicFA 160; Gen. St.MM112; 
Home Sc.MM319; Sec.  MM 
114; ScienceMM104.
May 7 will mark the election of 
next years Student Congress offic
ers. A joint meeting of the old 
and the new Congresses will elect 
a chairman and a vice-chairman. 
While nominations will be open 
from the floor, the Board of Com
mittee Chairmen has prepared a 
slate of candidate-s for each office.
There will be an important 
Student Congress meeting to
morrow Wednesday, April 30, 
at 4:S0 p.m. in 100 Porter Hall. 
Representatives are requested 
to make a special effort to be 
there since two-thirds of the 
membership is needed to vote 
on a constitutional amend
ment.
For the office of chairman Rich
ard Brand, Jr. EE, Bob Cleveland, 
Jr. PM, John Olmstead, Jr.Chem., 
and Cissie Rafferty, Jr. Sec., have 
been nominated.
Nominated for the office of vicechairman were: M. J. Stevens, Lee 
Ligo, and Bob Clement*
Student Loans
Students who anticipate the 
need for long-term loans for 
the academic year 1958-59 
may obtain applications from 
Mrs. Bauman in AH 161. Ap
plications must be returned to 
the committee on financial aid 
before August 1 in order to in
sure availability of funds by 
the time of September regis
tration.
Honoraries 
Make Calls
Five of the six class honoraries 
have made their calls for next 
year. Chosen on the basis of lead
ership and scholarship each spring 
and fall approximately 100 Tech 
students are tapped.
The senior mens honorary, 
Omicron Delta Kappa, has chosen 
Fred Heider, Bob Harrington, Bob 
Clements, Lou Pondy, Jack Walk
er, Dave Dull, Eric Ottervick and 
Don Tellalian for membership. 
There will probably be other calls 
[Continued on page 8]
Ys Sponsoring 
Student Faculty 
Weekend May 10
The weekend of May 10 and 11 
has been set as a student faculty 
weekend. Sponsored by the Ys, 
the group will leave Saturday 
afternoon for Camp Kon-O-Kwee, 
which is an hours drive from 
Tech. The topic for discussion will 
be The Hazards and Values of 
Skepticism in College.
The faculty will be well repre
sented by Dr. Edwin Fenton and 
Dr. Roy Curry. They will be pre
pared to put forth some challeng
ing ideas for those who feel they 
are positive of their position in 
life. In most centers of learning, 
and especially one such as Tech, 
where the focus is on science, stu
dents tend to develop a skeptical 
attitude toward many ideas.
How Much Skepticism
It is sometimes hard to recon
cile this attitude with the appar
ent fact that the general public 
seems to accept most ideas with 
little question. It can be recogniz
ed that ideas that are accepted 
without question are easily shat
tered; in this sense, skepticism 
has value, but can it be carried 
too far? This is one of the ques
tions which the students and fac[continued on page 8]
Freshman Camp Counselors 
Chosen For Next September
The annual Freshman Camp will 
be held next fall at Camp Luther - 
lyn near Butler, Pennsylvania, 
from September eighth through 
the tenth. Approximately three 
hundred freshmen are expected to 
attend, which will be the largest 
group in attendance since the idea 
of a freshman camp originated.
The purposes of this three-day 
outing are to help the freshmen
Each spring sees new changes in the executive officers of 
the various campus publications and Pi Delta Epsilon, the 
journalism honorary. Important among these are the new edi
tors of the Tartan, Technical, and Thistle.
 * Carol Sooby and Dick Wiley will
be co-editors of the Tartan for the 
next year. Todays issue of the 
paper has been put out by the new 
staff under the direction of these 
two capable persons, and Dave 
Dull, the new associate editor.
Taking charge of the news staff 
will be Tom Bieg, with Jan Notopolous as his assistant. Lex Baker 
moves up from assistant news edi
tor to features editor, while 
George Paris continues in his job 
as sports editor. Ed Blum will be 
assistant sports editor and A1 
Gickler will remain photography 
editor. In the office of business 
manager will be Mike Bass; cir
culation Gary Brandenberger; and 
advertising manager, Mike Bal
sam.
Thistle
As announced Sunday at the 
Thistle, banquet, next year the 
Thistle will be under the edi
torship of Dick Clemm; the man
aging editor will be Nancy Edgar, 
and production editor will be John 
Philbrick, with Dottie Beehner 
continuing in her position of busi
ness manager.
The other officers are: advertis
ing manager, John Hood; sales 
managers, Ron Gibala and Leila 
Moore; layout editor, Wes Kasonic; dummy preparation, June Dar
ling; art editor, Don Beaman; 
public relations, Marian Doepken; 
secretary, Carol Rea; associate 
editor, Bev Patton; fraternity edi
tor, Marianne Hadel; seniors, edi
tor, Melissa Ivkovich; IM sports 
editor, Noel Farrier; varsity sports 
editor, Lester Brickman; copy edi
tor, Judy Anderson; organizations 
editor, Elaine Spencer; features 
editor Margie Spock; circulation 
editor, Kathy Ammannito. 
Technical
As editor of the Technical 
Lou Pondy will be directing a 
competent staff. He will be aided 
by Jack Walker who is the new 
executive editor. Rich Werner 
will be production manager, Bob 
Harrington will be business man
ager, and Bob Denmarsh will be 
art director. The associate editors 
will be Ray Fessier, Ed Blum,
Morgan, Miss Carolyn Kennedy, 
Miss Judy Lowe, and Dr. Schatz.
Counselors 
The Program Chairmen are 
Marion Chilboski and Ray Nix. 
Camp Chairmen are Mary Gail 
Beckwith and Dave Dull. The 
counselors will be: Marian Doep
ken, Terrie Rudy, Mary Jane
Stevens, Ruth Vysoky, Sonya j Mike Clayton, Dave McMaster, and . , , . . | Blank, Maxine Brown, Barbara Larrv Turner
Smrsre:LeaToWSuairntLm'P011,ard' iiargaret S"odgraSS' The -Scot' w.II be under thewThTh; problems wwSThey w ! Steptanie Ko| editorship of Ginger Dancull. The
encounter in college.
The activities of the camp have 
been planned, and the program 
will include panel discussions, 
group discussions among the fresh
men, athletics, social activities, 
dancing, a campfire, and 
rally. - . ,
vacs, Cissie Rafferty, Eleanor Mi-j officers of this publication were 
cenko, Mary Ellen Timmons, Patj announced in a recent issue of the 
ty Parshall, Thomas Bieg, Bob j Tartan just previous to the last 
Clements, William Oldham, Richissue of the Scot. This staff will 
ard Wiley, Myron Salamon, John publish one more issue this year, 
Crecine, Bob Anselmi, Jeremiah j The new officers of PiDE 
Sullivan, Dick Brand, Bob Tornalism honorar 
a pep j ence, Jan Chaiken, Hilliard Wood,! Dottie 
1 John Hallgren, Fred Heider. Jobe Nancy
The faculty will be represented Philbrick, Bob Harrington, 
by Dr. Dale E. Strick. Dr. Robert1 Larry Campbell.and Dancull 
I rington.
jourare: president, 
Beehner; vice-president, 
Edgar; secretary, Ginger 
and treasurer, Bob HarFor Publications

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 29, 1958
Carnival Booths Lend 
To Rainbow Midway
Fraternity and sorority booths promise both variety and ingenuity 
in carrying out this years Carnival theme, Tinted Tunes.
The Pi Kappa Alpha booth, following the theme, That Old Black 
Magic, will be built around three thatched native huts, complete 
with tropical forest, voodoo idols and calypso drums for counters. De
scribed as immense ihe booth#
Midway Map
With the entrance of 31 booths on to the Cut this year, Carnival Committee has come up with a 
new arrangement of booths. They are closer together than usual and extend, on both side of the Cut, 
from Web Hall to Forbes Street. New additions are a Scot booth. Symphony Booth, WRCT, and two A 
Phi O booths. The midway should prove to be quite colorful and busy, especiall with the addition off \ 
platform in the center for a local talent show. Thursday will be square dancing on the Cut in front of 
the platform.
will contain a voodoo dart game, of the game is to roll three balls 
a ring toss at voodoo idols, and a into openings at the end of a long 
third game for sticking pins in a table
voodoo doll. j The Beta Sigma Rho booth will
Sigma Alpha Epsilon be a red-sailed boat with a boatSigma Alpha Epsilon is using an type game, in keeping with the 
Oriental theme, Genie with the theme, Red Sails in the Sunset 
Light Brown Hair. The predomij The Alpha Tau Omega booth 
nant features of the booth are two will be a take-off on spring, aclarge golden domes, the game becording to the theme Red Red 
ing a hoop toss centered around Robin
the genie.
A Western saloon will be the 
setting of the Kappa Sigma booth. 
Using the theme, Red Garters,
Sorority booths will closely fol
low campaign themes. Kappa A1 
pha Theta, following its campaign 
theme, Green Perfume, will
An Ever Popular Ride
A Carnival would not be complete without a ferris wheel. Techs 
Carnival is no exception. In addition there will be five other amuse
ments.
the game will consist of a garter 
toss with a chorus line as target. 
Phi Kappa, also using a Western 
theme, Red River Valley, has 
chosen a corral and Connestoga 
wagon for its setting. The game 
will be a tomahawk throw
"Blue Music Box, the Sigma 
Nu booth, is a large jukebox with i 
moving lights and a game that 
consists of tossing 78 rpm records. 
The game of the Delta Upsilon 
booth, Yellow Dog Blues, will 
be a race between dogcatcher and 
yellowdog with a doghouse for its 
setting.
Tau Delta Phi
Tau Delta Phi, using "Blue | 
Moon as its theme, has built its 
booth around a large blue moon. 
The game will consist of firing 
rockets into craters on the moon. ( 
Dunking a Beta is the prize for 
the Beta Theta Pi game, Blue 
Tail Fly. The backdrop of the; 
booth is a man riding a pony, and | 
the object of the game is to hit i 
the ponys rump with a dart.
The theme of the Theta Xi booth 
is The Green Door. The object I
have a baseball throw to upset 
green perfume bottles, the prizes 
being hand-made stuffed animals. 
The Delta Gamma game will con
sist of fishing for Red Hot Mama 
dolls in a small fishing pond, in 
keeping with its theme, Red Hot 
Mama.
Using a voodoo theme, the Kap
pa Kappa Gamma game will be a 
test of skill in Black Magic arts. 
The Delta Delta Delta booth is a 
surrey, pulled by an old gray mare; 
the game is a penny toss. The Chi 
Omega booth, Golfnik, will con
sist of miniature golf in an outer 
space setting.
Alpha Epsilon Phi is using 
Horse Racing for its theme. The 
player will roll dice after placing 
a bet on one of six horses. Prizes 
will be awarded for one, three, 
and five wins, and large stuffed 
animals will be given for twentyfive wins.
Sigma Kappa will have its 
annual basketball throw, featur
ing a large ,surprise box. which
wilfWgf&ft (Pm# pSftttWria
accumulates the highest score.
Cut[continued from page 2] 
carnivals, fairs and amusements 
have their side-shows and pro
fessional acts that perform for 
the attending crowds, spring car
nival is providing a means for 
Techs local talent to show off on 
the midway.
The response to this idea has 
not been as great as was hoped 
for, but what is to happen this 
year is only a beginning of what 
Carnival Committee hopes some 
day will be a predominant feature 
of Spring Carnival. The Commit
tee sees in the future a time when 
large crowds of the public will 
pay a geenral admission to the 
midway, not only to mix in the 
Carnival atmosphere, but to watch 
professional talent perform.
Thursday evening not everyone 
goes to Scotch and Soda. This is 
the time when the platform will
be first used. A large portion of 
the midway around the platform 
will be roped off for square-danc
ing. Bob Shields will be calling 
and teaching the dances as he 
goes.
Jam-packed with things to do as 
Carnival is, there is time before 
and after the regular events when 
the platform will be used by those 
pioneer groups who are going to 
show off their talent this year. 
Look for the posters announcing 
the specific features of the shows 
that will be presented at the fol
lowing times:
Thursday9:00 p.m. Square 
dance.
Friday4:00 p.m. Talent show 
(following sorority relays.)
Saturday12:30 p.m. Talent 
show
3:30 p.m. Mustache-growing 
and Hat-making contests 
judging (following plankjousting.)
Tech Offering Russian Courses 
In Answer To Increasing Needs
Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gy will offer a summer course in 
scientific Russian in answer to in
creasing needs of graduate stu
dents and research workers, Pres
ident John C. Warner announced 
last Thursday. The only Russian 
study to be offered in Pittsburgh 
area colleges this summer, it will 
be specially designed for graduate 
students in engineering and sci
ence, but may be taken by others 
as well.
Foreign language has always 
been of prime importance to re
searchers in keeping abreast oS 
their professions, Dr. Warner 
pointed out. Students have tra
ditionally concentrated on French 
and German. But publication of 
Russian journals is growing con
tinually, and the major contri
butions they are now recording 
can no longer be given secondary 
consideration. Our department of 
physics a year ago changed its 
rules to specify Russian or Ger
man as one of the two languages 
required for a doctors degree. 
Dr. Warner stated that only a 
small fraction of the leading Rus
sian technical periodicals are 
translated into English, and that 
those which do appear are gen
erally four to eighteen months 
later than their originals. College 
libraries could afford many more 
journals if researchers read Rus
sian, he added, because transla
tions are as much as ten times 
more expensive.
Reading Stressed 
Scientific Russian, according to 
the professor, Dr. Emanuel Salfealler, stres!&!S a quitft -arquftitiorr 
of reading knowledge in technical
literature, with speaking and writ
ing instruction deferred to ad
vanced courses. Dr. Salgaller, a 
native of Latvia, believes that 
progress in technical Russian can 
be made as quickly as in German, 
in spite of the widespread feeling 
that Russian is more difficult.
The 18-unit course, equivalent 
to a full year of work, will meet 
for two hours each morning Mon
day through Friday from June 16 
to August 9. No previous language 
training is required. A similar 
course in scientific German, 
taught by Professor Fred Genschmer, head of the department of 
modern languages, will meet dur
ing the same hours. Carnegie Tech 
offers courses in beginning and in
termediate Russian during the 
regular school year.
Cwens, Sophomore 
Womens Honorary 
Founded 1922
Cwens is a national womens 
activities honorary. It was fount r 
ed on November 3, 1922 right here 
in our own back yard at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh. Today there 
are 14 chapters. %
Techs chapter of Cwens, Eta 
chapter, was installed on May 2, 
1929. It originated from an exist
ing sophomore honorary which 
had been founded by Dean Green, 
in December of 1927. This year E|^ 
chapter has 18 members.
Cwens
The purpose of Cwens, accord
ing to the original charter, is to 
foster leadership, scholarship, and 
fellowship among the women of 
the sophomore class, and to pro
mote the interests of the college 
or university in every way pos
sible.
This years Cwens have had 
many and varied activities. They 
started by decorating for the 
Spring Carnival dance held 
last year. They served with the 
other womens honoraries at the 
Presidents Reception at gradua
tion, and worked in conjunction 
with Student Congress and the 
Scimitars on Freshman Week pro
jects. In the fall the Cwens had 
charge of the Homecoming mu0 
sale and also worked on the Home
coming queen campaign and the 
float.
Cwens worked at registration 
pulling IBM cards, and served at 
the Presidents Reception for new 
faculty. To raise money for their 
scholarship fund, Cwens sold ad
dress labels. In the spring Cwens 
will have a tea for eligible fresh
man women served at the Dean? 
Reception for future students. **
LIBRARIANS
The City of Los Angeles
Offers outstanding opportunities to librarians and chil
drens librarians to become a part of the fastest-growing 
large library system in the country.
Salary: $4500 to $5568
Excellent sick leave and retirement benefits 
Paid holidays and vacations 
Many other civil service benefits
Candidates may apply now and receive a definite 
appointment prior to coming to Los Angeles
Contact Your Placement Office For Details or Write to 
Personnel Officer 
Los Angeles Public Library 
30 West Fifth Street 
Los Angeles 17, California
Carnival Schedule
Thursday, May 1 
4:30Carnival Midway opens
9:00Square Dance.............................................................On the Cut
12:00Midway closes
Friday, May 2
7:30Buggy Design Judging..................................Machinery Hall
10:00Sweepstakes Preliminary 
12:00Midway opens 
1:30Coronation snd Call Day .... Flagstaff Hill (Gym if rain)
2:00Faculty Egg Toss.............................................Fine Arts Lawn
3:15Sorority Relays.................................................Fine Arts Lawn
4:00Entertainment...........................................................................Cut
8:00Jazz Concert.........................................................................Gym
12:00Midway closes.
Saturday, May 3 
10:00Sweepstakes Finals 
12:00Midway opens
Entertainment ....................................................................... Cut
2:00Plank Jousting....................................................Carnegie Union
3:30Contest Judging on platform on Cut (following plank 
jousting)
9:00Carnival Ball ...................................................................... Gym
11:00IntermissionAwards and prizes 
12:00Midway closes
*-or

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 29, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
ertale 
C^iiflurai
Crafen diar
A performance of Gian Carlo 
N~Menottis The Unicorn, The Gor
gon, and The Manticore, and 
Lullys Te Deum for double 
choir and orchestra will be given 
by the Pittsburgh Concert Choir, 
members of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony, and ten dancers. The con
cert will be directed by John 
Lively and the choreography is by 
Mario Melodia. It will be held on
April 29 in Carnegie Music Hall 
at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $2.20, 
$1.65, and 99c (student).
The Music Department will pre
sent a concert by the Student 
Symphony Orchestra under the 
direction of Samuel Thaviu on 
Sunday, May 11, at 1:30 p.m. at 
Carnegie Music Hall. Admission is 
free. The program will include: 
Overture to the Secret
of Suzanne........Wolf Ferrari
Concerto No. 3 in E Flat 
Major for Horn and
Orchestra K. 447..........Mozart
Allegro
Romanze: Larghetto 
Allegro
Lawrence Wechsler
[continued on page 8]
In the Spring rn,,or,ck
Seen above left to right on the Fine Arts lawn are professors Ludwig Schaemer, Robert Sehwar*. 
David Gidman, Fran Bebic, new Fanhel president, and Professor Edwin Fenton. With the advent of Spring, 
many grass sitters are found mashing lawns, tempting ants, and soaking up turf food. The grass-sitter 
is usually a member of the student body, but evidence above shows the move toward grass-sitting has hit 
the history department. It is hoped that faculty and administration will inundate Fine Arts lawna very 
pleasant and long needed meeting ground.
Scotch 11 Soda 
Presents Harmony
By Mike Clayton
With the final demonstrations 
of Carnival Spirit yet before us, 
the first presentations of that 
greatest of efforts  the Scotch 
n Soda production  have al
ready taken place. With all of the 
organization necessary for mold
ing a cast of thirty-five and a 
crew of fifty into a coordinated 
unity, S&S is unique in its ability 
to retain the individuality of its 
members. This years musical pro
duction was aptly suited to the 
expression of personality with 
unity. The story of Harmony 
could be, with minor alterations, 
the story of Scotch & Soda  a 
cultural experiment embodying 
all of the frustrating and yet en
joyable difficulties inherent in the 
practice of an ideal.
Loretta Steinberg and Gay Heit 
seemed to radiate their own ways 
of life untiringly and effortlessly. 
George Eskin, with perhaps more 
effort, aptly portrayed a man  in 
the highest sense of the word  
with a wonderful mixture of pas
sions and principles that set him 
apart from the expertly crude 
keelboatman who stomp their way 
into the hearts of the Harmonists.
Personalities
Ivan Curry is funny  no, hes 
riotous  as the Frontiersman 
from Philly. He is comedy and 
tragedy, the butt of every joke 
and the hero of the hour, singer, 
dancer and that type of soulmimic called actor. Becky Con
rad and Jim Komer enhance the 
contrast of personalities which 
make this show the success that it 
is.
The shaping of such a produc
tion is a task requiring the infi
nite patience, foresight and artis
try of an epic poet. President Lou 
Hecht was blessed with a staff 
which ross to the problem with 
enthusiasm and skill.
Shanahan
Storage
All Private Rooms
3460 Fifth Avenue 
7535 Penn Avenue 
Mayflower 1-7800
. eNation Wide 
Furniture Movers
Call Day Program
Flagstaff Hill  Friday, May 2, 1958  1:30 p.m.
Selections by the Kiltie Band 
General Welcome and Introduction Calls ,
Master of CeremoniesRobert Cleveland
Calls:
Alpha Phi Omega Claymore Clan Pi Mu Epsilon 
Pi Delta Epsilon Tau Beta Pi Tau Sigma Delta 
Sigma Xi Omicron Nu
Selection by the Cameron Choir
Calls:
Cwens Phi Tau Gamma Mortar Board
Scimitar Society Delta Skull Omicron Delta Kappa 
Selection by the Kiltie Band 
Awards
Student Congress Awards and Activities Keys 
Edward E. McDonald Award
!Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Outstanding Senior Award
Mortar Board Scholarship
Pi Delta Epsilon Publications Award
WRITE Contest Awards
Sigma Alpha Iota Award
Panhellenic Scholarship
Kent D. Shaffer Outstanding Service Award
Tartan Awards... .Intramural Athletics  Varsity Athletics
Alfred M. Cerrito Award
Selection by the Cameron Choir 
Presentation of the Court 
Crowning of the 1958 Spring Carnival Queen 
Dr. Warner 
Official Opening of J958 Carnival 
Selection by the Kiltie Band
Choreography
Denise Getsies choreographic 
work and Burke Caldwells music 
moved the cast through Jack Zierolds framework x>f emotions and 
lyrics. Sally Lindsay provided a 
burst of spirit which was indispencible as well as carrying out 
her duties as stage manager. Don 
Beaman's set and Bob Roses
lights exhibited the wonderful 
talents of these two men. The 
whole production was directed by 
Saul Swimmer and assistant Ron 
Barron, a task beyond the abilities 
of mere mortals indicating the 
truth in the statement, The Lord 
looks after babies, drunks and 
directors.
FOOTWEAR FOR COLLEGE MEN AND WOMEN mmmmm mmmmmmm mmmm mmmm mmmmmmmmmm
Acrobatics, Ski Boots, Soft and Hard Toe Slippers, Des
ert Boots, Tap Shoes, Bedroom Slippers, Ice and Roller 
Skates and Shoes, Tennis Shoes, Dress Shoes, Rubbers 
and Galoshes.
Save up to 40% Open 9 to 9
LITTLE'S Shoe Store
Better Shoes For Less5850 Forbes St.
On Campuswith M Staten
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek)
SWEENEY IN THE TREES
Spring is herethe season of tree-sitting contests. Thus T ap
plaud. Tree-sitting is healthful and jolly and as American as 
apple pie. Also it keeps you off the streets.
Tree-sitting is not/however, without its hazards. Take, for 
example, the dread and chilling ease of Manuel Sigafoos and 
Ed Sweeney, both sophomores at the Nashville College of Folk 
Music and Woodworking, and both madly in love with a beau
tiful alto named Ursula Tiling, who won their hearts singing 
that fine old folk song, I Strangled My True Love with Her Own 
Yellow Braids, and I'll Never Eat Her Sorghum Any More.
Both Manuel and Ed pressed Ursula to go steady, but she 
could not choose between them, and finally it was decided that 
the boys would have a tree-sitting contest, and Ursula would 
belong to the victor. So Manuel and Ed clambered up adjoin
ing aspens, taking with them the following necessaries: food, 
clothing, bedding, reading matter, andmost essential of allplenty of Marlboro Cigarettes.
We who live on the ground know how much you get to like 
with a Marlboro. Think how much more important they must 
be to the lonely tree-dwellerhow much more welcome their 
fine, mild tobacco; how much more gratifying their free-drawing 
filters; how much more comforting their sturdy, crushproof 
flip-top box. Climb a tree and see for yourselves.
Compp acttcne sKntyatN
Well supplied with Marlboros, our heroes began their treesitting contestManuel with good heart, Ed with evil cunning. 
The shocking fact is that crafty Ed, all unbeknownst to Manuel, 
was one of three identical triplets. Each night while Manuel 
dozed on his bough, one of Ed's brothersFred or Jedwould 
sneak up the tree and replace him. "How can I lose?" said Ed 
with a fiendish giggle to his brother Fred or Jed.
But Ed had a big surprise coming. For Manuel, though 
he did not know it himself, was a druid! He had been abandoned 
as an infant at the hut of a poor and humble woodcutter named 
Cornelius Whitney Sigafoos III, who had raised the child as 
his own. So when Manuel got into the tree, he found much to 
his surprise that he had never in all his life felt so at home 
and happy. He had absolutely no intention of ever leaving.
After seven or eight years Ed and his brothers wearied of the 
contest and conceded. Ursula Thing came to Manuels tree 
and cried, I am yours! Come down and pin me.'!
But Manuel declined. Instead he asked Ursula to join him 
in the tree. This she could not do, being subject to mopery 
(a morbid allergy to woodpeckers), so she ended up with Ed 
after all.
Only she made a mistakea very natural mistake. It was 
Jed, not Ed, with whom she ended up.
Ed, heartbroken at being tricked by his own brother, took 
up metallurgy to forget.
Crime does not pay.
 1098 Mi 3Brighit
This column is brought to you by the makers of Marlboro 
Cigarettes who suggest that if you are ever up a tree when 
trying to find a gift, give Marlboros. You cant miss!

---------------------------------------------------

Fase 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 29, 1958
Ij/i) 
it
< 1
9
ji
M
Editorial
Dont Just Sit ThereVOTE!
By this time next week, departmental elections for the 
members of the 1958-59 Student Congress will be over. The 
proportion of students who will be actually represented in 
Congress will depend on how many vote for their depart
mental delegate. If participation in the elections is compara
ble to that of last year, only a relatively small percentage of 
the student body will be represented. In last years elections 
the architects led the proportion of participating voters with 
forty-eight per cent of the department taking part. At the 
other end of the scale were the chemists with five per cent, 
home ec majors with six per cent, and the civil and mechan
ical engineers with only seven per cent of their members par* 
ticipating in the election.
Success of Congress
It should be apparent by this time that Congress is the 
governing body of the student community and that as such 
its powers in some way affect every student at Tech. Two 
years ago when Congress was revised, there was some skep
ticism about the success of the intended Congress; the ef
ficiency of such an organization was questioned; that it would 
have the power to direct all campus activity was doubtful. 
To date, however, Congress has seemingly proved itself. 
It is now up to the students as a whole to strengthen the or
ganization and to assure the continuance of present achieve
ments by voting in their departmental elections next Tues
day for the representative who will most effectively work 
to accomplish the goals of Congress and who will at the same 
time be a responsible delegateconsulting with constituents 
on major issues and informing them regularly of Congres
sional decisions.
The often-raised question must again be asked at this 
time: if a college student cant take the time to vote in school 
elections, what kind of a citizen is he going to make? Will he 
take time to vote in local, state, and national elections or will 
he add to the already high percentage of uniformed, uninter
ested citizens?
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office Phone 
MU 2-45.17: Managing Editor, MU 2-8877; Executive Editor, MU 2-9053; Business 
Manrger . MU 2-8851 Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
.id e.saiijination period by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Managing l.ditor ............................................................................................................. Carol Sooby
Kxeciiti.c K'titor .......................................................................................................... Richard Wiley
Associate .<:>.or .................... ............................................................................... David Dull
It atndely I ana er .................................................................................................... Michael Bafts
Nev. * Editor .................................................................................................................. Tom Bieg
*4| ri . Oil or ..................................................................................................................... George Pari*
 l>v I uitor ............................................................................................................... Jerry Sullivan
t New s I ditorJanyce Notopoulos, Features KditorLex Baker, Ptaoh i kditorA! Oickler. Assistant Business ManagerLee Adelsburg, Advertist i via rj> r Mike Bal'ain, secretaryBena Siegel, Assistant Sports Editor
Fntei .d b~ co.id clas-i matter on October 4, 1907. at the Post Office at Pittat . P?. u !* , at? of March 3. 1879 Accepted for mailing at Fecial rate of port" 
1 f< : ,n t! c act oi February 28. 1925. 
im-l,., lor i.di.ji.al advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Dr, G, L. Baph 
Author Of Book 
On U.S. Inflation
Dr. G. L. Bach, Dean of the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, has entered the 
current inflation controversy with 
a new book which challenges the 
common view that big unions and 
big business alone are primarily 
to blame for inflation. The book, 
Inflation, also maintains that 
the current recession in the 
American economy will not con
tinue but is only a temporary 
break in a long-run inflationary 
pattern.
There have been long valleys 
between the steep peaks of infla 
tion in many nations, Dr. Bach 
writes, but in every major west
ern country the net result over 
the decades has been a persistent 
uptrend of prices. Indeed, the 
amazing thing is that man has not 
long since come to expect infla
tion as the normal event, and a 
continuing stable value of his 
monetary unit the exception.
The strongest defense now 
against long-run inflation,  Dr. 
Bach argues, is government poli
cy to limit the money supply. 
Without continuing increases in 
the amount of bank deposits and 
currency, serious inflation cannot 
exist, even with strong unions 
pushing up wages. Thus, the gov
ernment itself is responsible for 
inflation if it occurs, and must 
take a strong restrictive stand if 
the inflationary drift is to be pre
vented.
Inflation Likely
The author presents six reasons 
which make continuing inflation 
likely: full employment as a main 
goal of economic policy the dem
onstration in World War II that 
massive government spending can 
produce full employment; the in
creasing strength of major socio
economic groups and the increas
ingly administered structure of 
prices; increased government re
sponsiveness to the common man 
and his wants; the immience of 
warbot hot and cold; and the 
end of the gold standard. But off
setting factors, he feels, will pre
vent this trend from turning into 
a runaway inflationary spiral.
Temporary setbacks of as much 
as two or three years may well 
occur, Dr. Bach believes. Although 
prices and wages are generally 
pushed up faster than is consistent 
with full employment at stable 
prices, there will be intermittent 
periods of weakness in output, 
production and prices as the econ
omy grows unevenly.
The groups which will be en
dangered most by inflation, says 
the author, will be savers, espe
cially those savers who hold fixed 
money value assets; old folks; 
employees of governments and 
eleemosynary institutions; and un
incorporated businesses. The priv
ate wage earners will be most suc
cessful in maintaining an equal 
or increasing share of income!
Political Reasons
He further points out that con
tinuing inflation will be by no 
means exclusively an economic 
phenomenon. Rather, its roots will 
lie deep within our political and 
social pressures and values. Public 
policy toward inflationary pres
sures must be developed and as
sessed in this frame of refnreece, 
rather than merely as a problem 
in applied economics.
In searching for ways to handle 
inflation Dr. Bach says, If we | 
rule out as desirable social policy 
an unplanned and unannounced 
inflationary drift, there seem to 
me to remain two major defens
ible alternatives. The first is to 
take a firm stand against inflation. 
The second is to openly accept its 
likelihood and to build into our 
economic life a thorough system 
of safeguards to protect against 
it undesirable effects. The choice 
| must be, I think, that we should 
take a major stand against infla
tion, however hard this path may 
be.
Observations
Should Scientists 
Develop Secret .Tests?
By Richard Block
Almost everyone nowadays is proposing solu
tions to. the negotiations dead lock between the 
Soviet Union and the United States. The most novel 
suggestion I have come across and perhaps the . 
most plausible and all around satisfactory one is the 
idea of Harrison Brown. In his Gideon Seymour 
Memorial Lecture, delivered 'at the University of 
Minnesota, Mr. Brown said:
But what about Dr. Tellers bootlegger? Would 
not the United States be at a disadvantage (under 
atest ban agreement)? We would not think of 
violating such an agreement, but the Russians 
might expand vast efforts in attempts to conduct 
tests in secret.
I believe that there is an answer to this diffi
culty. Remote though the possibility of conducting 
tests in secret might be, it is conceivable that some 
bright young scientist might think of a way of cir
cumventing the agreement. In view of this possibil
ity and in order to place the United States on an 
equal footing with the Soviet Union, I would be in
clined to legalize secret nuclear testsin short, to 
make the bootlegging of tests an honorable profes
sion.
Teste Would Continue
The agreement I visualize would not be to stop 
all nuclear testing. It would be an agreement to 
stop all tests that could be detected by the estab
lished network. This would mean that no appreci
able radioactivity could be poured into the atmo
sphere to contaminate the air, no appreciable air 
pressure waves could be initiated, no large ground 
shocks could be generated. It would mean further 
that our scientists and technologists at Los Alamos 
and Livermore could be kept happy and busy ex
ploring all possible roads that might enable them 
to circumvent these formidable restrictions.
Why not? It makes sense and it certainly would 
not put either side in the cheating or cheated 
upon position.
It is nlear that a most pressing need today is a 
solution to the nuclear situation. It is at present 
out of hand and if it continues for long it may be
come permanently so. Naturally, the troubles of 
the world have always been caused by man him
self and the solution to any human problem lies in 
man. This truism, however, doesnt influence the 
great man child to watch what he plays with. War 
has, throughout histpry, been the great play-thing, 
the great game, the mans sport, the time when 
men have something to work for, the action that 
gives a cause for living.
War provides direct and clear objectives. It is 
brute strength, and man pitted against his most 
worthy opponent, man. There is no reason for be
lieving that there is the remotest hope of ever com
pletely abolishing war. We all tal kabout it but we 
dont do much about it.
Wars Continue
There are people who sincerely do not want 
war. But these people are usually not well received 
by the populace; there is a personality conflict.
The world has survived many wars. Millions of 
people have suffered severely but mankind -has 
pulled through the man made mess. Up until now 
few generations have burdened with the results of 
its wars. Some doubt that there will ever be a war 
to end all wars. Perhaps not, but there may well 
[continued on page 8]
*0
Bf
-u!
Block Praised
Editor, the Tartan
I wish to compliment you in 
the recently inaugurated column, 
Observations, by Richard Block. 
During the past few weeks it has 
been a consistently interesting 
and noteworthy feature. Although 
I disagree with some of Mr. 
Blocks ideas, I feel that the sub
jects he chooses are important to 
all of us as students and citizens, 
and should be given more atten
tion and interest by us. Thank 
you for printing this thoughtprovoking column. It represents 
a giant step forward for the 
Tartan.
Lewy Olfson 
Drama 58
Buggies Blasted
Editor, The Tartan:
The advent of spring carnival 
brings with it the springtime 
boom in buggy building. This
science has grown by leaps and 
bounds in recent years  with 
most of the research being carried 
on by the Tech fraternities. Tkl^ 
competition in this race has be
come so intense that one cannot 
hope to even place in the top 
three without the expenditure of 
at least $250 and many, many 
man-hours of labor.
Such large amounts of time and 
money can hardly be justified for 
an event which lasts about three 
minutes and which results in tech-* 
nical experience for only a limi*- 
ed number of students. The bufc* 
by race has gone completely over
board: too much money is spent; 
too much time is wasted; and too 
little good is done.
If the money must be spent, I 
would prefer a revival of the 
float parade  which lasts a little 
longer  than the current battle 
of ball bearings.
Wheelan Daxle
Soph., Drama p

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 29, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
f--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Carnegie Harriers Win Three;
Season's Record Stands At 4-1
Tech Field Men 
Star In Victory
, "he Carnegie track team won 
two meets in easy fashion last 
week by romping over Case Tech 
81 to 50 and then trouncing Way
nesburg by an 82 to 49 count.
Tech scored most of its points 
in the Case meet in running 
events as A1 Tompkins won the 
100 and 220 yard dashes by half 
a foot over the Case runners. Par 
Chamay and Eric Suggs finished 
^two-three in the qaurter mile and 
K /may and King took a onetwo in the half mile event.
Mile Events
Cases miler just nosed out 
Techs Bill Whitman in that 
event with Dick Hamilton finish
ing third. The two mile event was 
won by Techs tri-state champion, 
Eric Ottervik in 10:12. This time 
is just 6 seconds off the tri-state 
record.
*Joe Frick again came through 
iif winning the javelin and Tompking and Paul Hauser tied for first 
place in the high jump. Milt Miles 
won both hurdles events.
Tartan Domination
The Waynesburg meet was 
dominated mostly by the Tartans 
field and distance men. Tech 
swept the discus, pole vault and 
mile and two-mile events.
Waynesburg had two triple
> nners in Shelton who took both _Sil_______________________________________
Split Two Meets 
With St. Francis; 
Slippery Rock
Denise Getsies choreographic 
Saul Swimmer and assistant Ron
Techs track team split two 
meets last week with both con
tests being won by lop-sided 
scores. The Tartans swamped St. 
Francis by a 116 to 15 score but 
were then dumped by a strong 
Slippery Rock team 96 to 35.
Tech won every event in the 
St. Francis meet and swepted 
several of the events. Ty Porter 
won the 100 yard dash in 10.3 sec
onds and the 220 in 22.8 seconds. 
Pat Chamay took the quarter mile 
event in 52.8 and Bill Whitman 
won the half mile in 2.05.
Eric Ottervik, Techs tri-state 
two-mile champion won the mile 
event in 4.40 and came back to 
tie the two mile contest with 
teammate Dick Hamilton.
Joe Frick won the javelin event 
and Roger Strauss took the discuss 
throw. Hauser and Tompkins tied 
for first in the high jump for 
Tech, while Pulaski won the shot 
put and Humes the pole vault to 
make for a complete sweep.
The Slippery Rock Contest was 
a complete reversal as the Tech 
team was nosed out in race after 
race. Slippery Rock sprinter Ken 
Hildebrand set a school record in
winning the 100 yard dash in ten 
seconds flat.
. Dick Hamilton came through in 
fine shape for the Tartans by win
ning the two mile run in ten min
utes, 25 seconds. The only other 
Tech in the javelin which Joe 
Frick won with a throw of 166V2 
feet and the high jump, tied by 
Hauser and Tompkins at 5 ft., 7 
inches.
Slippery Rock had two double 
winners in Bob Dickinson who 
won the half mile and mile events 
in 2.02 and 4.30 times respectively 
and John Albitz, winner of the 
high hurdles in 16.2 and the 220 
yard low hurdles in 24.6 seconds.
The weeks action left Coach 
Jim Farsons team with a 2-1 rec
ord for the season. Next week the 
Tartans run Case at home on 
Tuesday and journey to Waynes
burg for a meet there on Friday.
1001. Hilebrand, SR; 2. Albitz, SR; 3. Tompkins, CT. T10:0.
2201. Hildebrand, SR; 2. Tompkins, 
CT; 3. Barber, SR. Time22.0.
4401. Yates, SR; 2. Hammy, ST; 3. 
Sugge, CT. Time52.8.
880  1. Dickenson, SR; 2. Whitman, 
CT; 3. Shirey, SR. T2:02.2.
Mile1. Dickenson, SR; 2. Shirey, SR: 
3. Ottervik, CT. Time4:30.5.
Two-mile1. Hamilton, CT; 2. Otter
vik. CT; 3. Meddock, SR. T10:25.1.
110 HH1. Albitz, SR; 2. Miles, CT; 3. 
Strelic, SR. T16.2.
220 HH1. Albitz, SR; 2. Yates, SR; 3. 
Miles. ST. T24.6.
Mile relay1. Slippery Rock (Esser, 
Dolde, Dickenson, Hildebrand). T  
3:32.7.High jump1. (Tie! Peterson, SR; Upperman. SR; Hauser, CT. Tompkins, CT. 
5-6.Broad jump1. Slattery, SR. 18-6Va; 
2. Dolde, SR, 17-1114; 3. Girty, SR, 
17-9 Va.Pole vault1. (Tie) Simonsen, SR, and 
Esser, 11-6; 3. Jessel, SR, 11-0.Shot1. Knabb, SR, 41-4; 2. Katusin. 
SR, 37-9; 3. Methber. SR, 36-10.
Discus1. Knabb, SR, 107-5; 2. Katu
sin, SR, 106-3; 3. Lemmer. CT, 100-6.
Javelin  1. Frick. CT. 166-3V3; 2. 
Wighttnan, SR, 161-9 Va! 3. Katusin, SR,
161-1 '/a.
Ticket Sellers
Any student interested in sell
ing tickets for Spring Carnival 
should contact Roger Strauss, 
MU 2-8800.
Thistle
Thistles will be sold every 
Tuesday in Skibo from 1,1:30 to 
1:30 in 109 Ross Hall, and in 
Morewood Lobby this evening 
from 5:00 to 7:30.
IM Softball 
In First Week
Intramural softball has started 
again, and competition for the 
title in this major spring sport is 
underway. Thirty-four teams, one 
more than last year, form ,six 
leagues in what appears to be a 
well-balanced overall competition. 
No one of the nineteen fraternity 
squads or fifteen independent ag
gregates stands out as unbeatable, 
since last years champions have 
lost several of their stars, and 
the remuilt clubs are largely un
tried.
Sigma Nu, last years campus 
champions, has most-valuableplayer Jim Swisher returning, but 
has already encountered some 
rough going in its early games this 
year, dropping a close decision to 
the Clyde Street Shockers. Run
ner-up last year, SAE appears 
strong after winning its opener 
over Beta Sigma Rho B, but the 
graduation of several of last years 
regulars did weaken the team,.
Tech League
aLden with varsity football 
stars, TKN now is one of the 
leading independent teams. In its 
first game, TKN barely squeaked 
by ATO A 11-10, but in the 
second game, managed to top Phi 
Kappa B 10-2. The Tech League 
title race shapes up to be between 
them and the powerful ASCE 
team, victorious in its first game.
Skibo League
Topping the Skibo League, and 
all fraternities now, is Beta Sigma 
Rho A, undefeated in three 
games. They trounced ATO B 
24-1 in their opener, and then de
feated D. U. 16-7. Friday after
noon, they topped Delta Tau Delta 
by one run in a high scoring af
fair. Since their two remaining 
games are with already beaten 
^Vhitfield Hall and the once de
feated Vets Club, they may be 
able to remain undefeated. The 
Beta Sigs look like sure bets for 
the Skibo League title..
Few other teams have played 
enough games to give any real 
indication of their abilities, so that 
the other leagues are hard to pre
dict now.
PiDE Organized 
At Syracuse 
University In 1909
Pi Delta Epsilon is the oldest 
national honorary collegiate jour
nalism fraternity in the country. 
Pi D E is built on the idea of 
service as its keystone. This 
honorary was organized at 
Syracuse University on December
6, 1909 by a group of men work
ing on the staff of the university 
publication, Daily Orange. One 
year later it became a national or
ganization when another chapter 
was established at the University 
of Nebraska.
The work of Pi Delta Epsilon is 
educational in that it strives ev
erywhere to teach the ethics, tech
nique, and mechanics of journal
ism. Pi D E is the link between 
the various campus publications, 
for it is within the councils of 
the fraternity that mutual prob
lems are discussed.
Achievements
Among its achievements have 
been the creating of boards of 
publications for supervision of staff 
finances and the instituting of 
needed publications, such as the 
Freshman Handbook, and the se
curing of proper recognition for 
student journalists among other 
campus activities.
The social aspect of Pi Delta 
Epsilon is represented by the tarticipation of members in banquets 
and smokers and by * sponsoring 
contests. The recent Write contest 
here on Tech campus is a Pi D E 
project.
Winners Of Write 
Contest To Be 
Revealed Call Day
The winners of Write will b 
announced on May 2, 1958, at Cat 
Day.
The winning entries will be 
published in the following places: 
1958 Thistle, May 6 issue of the 
Tartan, Spring Carnival issue of 
the Scot, and on May 18, at 11.00 
p.m. over WRCT.
GIRLS!!!
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SUMMER POSITIONS!
There are a few positions available for the 1958 camp 
season and if you are certified by the American Red 
Cross as a Waterfront Instructor contact Isabelle Levy 
at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, AT 1-7100 from Friday af
ternoon, May 9 to Sunday, May II.
Waterfront Director and .. , ,
Registered Nurse Needed
GRADUATE
U. S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM
Street..
City_____________________________Zone.
an important career in the new Age of Space.
As a college graduate, you will be given 
priority consideration for the Air Force 
Aviation Cadet Program. While openings are 
limited, you will be tested and advised ini me
diately of qualification status. Find out if you 
measure up. Paste tlje attached coupon on a 
post card and mail it now.
The Air Force pilot or navigator is a man oi 
many talents. He is, first of all, a master of 
the airand no finer exists. In addition, he 
has a firm background in engineering, elec
tronics, astro-navigation and allied fields. 
Then, too, he must show outstanding quali
ties of initiative, leadership and self-reliance. 
He is, in short, a man eminently prepared for
THEN FLY
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. C-21 
Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
Please send me details on my opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in tb 
U. S. Air Force. 1 am a U. S. citizen, between the apes of 19 and 26^4 and a 
resident of the U. S. or possessions. I am interested in ? Pilot ? Navigator training.
N ame-------------------------------------------------------- ______________College__________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 29, 1958
Tennis Team Bows To Geneva; 
Defeats Grove City, Waynesburg
Tech suffered its first loss at the 
hands of Geneva in tennis last 
Saturday on the home courts 6-3. 
Tech won its second match at 
Grove on Wednesday by the same 
score.
The Tartans played poorly and 
lacked their usual sharpness in 
being upset by the Covies. The 
much improved visitors, playing 
their sixth match, made good use 
of the lob and retiring game to 
force the home team into repeated 
errors.
Gene Krygowski netted ball 
after ball and the match was over 
before he could find his game. 
Larry Dusair and George Gross, 
playing second and fourth, came 
from behind after solving their 
opponents games to win going 
away.
T. Survan, a freshman was! 
simply outclassed, third singles 
being too high a position for his 
experience. Mario Volpe. number 
5 dropped a 2 hour, 15 minute 
heartbreaker in which every point 
was long and hard-fought. Tom 
Beig. number six, won in two 
sets.
Needing two doubles matches to 
win the match, Tech showed its 
lack of enough practice and drop
ped all three.
Against Grove City last week, 
Tech won easily, with only one 
match going three sets.
Three Nominated 
For IM Award
Three men have been nominated 
for the Intramural Man of the 
Year award presented annually on 
Call Day by the Carnegie Tartan.
This years nominees are: Lou 
Montini, Bruce Bowen, and John 
Bergran. Each of these men have 
been active in promoting and 
helping to advance the IM sports 
program on Techs campus.
Members of Managers Club and 
Intramural Board are elegible to 
vote. In previous years this trophy 
was usually given to the person 
showing the most athletic ability . 
in the all-around IM program. 
However this years winner will 
be judged more on the amount of 
time and work he has devoted to 
bettering the program, and pro
moting its enlargement on campus.
Tartan Golfers 
Cop First Win
Carnegies golf team won their 
first match of the season by 
trouncing Waynesburg 6 to 0. The 
match was a West Penn Confer
ence contest.
Fred Heider and Marty Fertal, 
the number 1 and 2 men respec
tively won their matches in easy 
fashion by 4 and 3. Larry Coon 
and Dale Harrington playing 3 
and 4 won their matches 5 and 3, 
and 3 and 2 respectively.
Meanwhile Dick Matticks de
feated his opponent 4 and 3 and 
Don Casey likewise won by 5 and 
4. Other members of the 58 Tar
tan team who did not play were 
Jerry Kruzer and Bob Jurick.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE. PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Leo Alman & 
The Combo
HA. 1-2083*
Techs tennis team swept its 
seasons opener last Saturday by 
shutting out Waynesburg 9 to 0. 
The visitors fielding a tennis 
squad for the first season since 
the war were completely out
classed, failing to win a set.
The Tartans prospects are 
bright this year, as a strong squad 
of veterans will be leading the 
play. Coach Moses returning from 
retirement, promises a much im
proved record over last years 5-4 
mark, in which 3 matches were 
lost by 1 point.
Gene Krygowski, playing first 
singles with a hard driving game 
and a big serve, looks stronger 
than ever. Larry Dussair, playing 
his fourth varsity season and third 
as second man, has a big wellrounded style and is at his best 
j under pressure. The two make an 
invincible doubles combination. 
George Gross, a transfer student 
is the only newcomer on the first 
six; he has a strong steady game 
and a very fast serve. Mario 
Volpe, number four, did very well 
in the same spot as a freshman 
last year.
Rounding out the solid singles 
squad is Tom Beig in his third 
varsity season and Dent Williams 
in his second, in the 5th and 6th 
slots. Freshmen John Oehler and
T. Survon looked impressive in 
their first varsity competition, 
winning the third doubles.
The teams strength would be 
even greater but for the ineligibil
ity of two players, A1 Winters and 
Ev Crissman.
Singles
Krygowski defeated Cluves, 
6-2, 6-3; Dussair defeated
Merwin, 6-1, 7-5; Gross de
feated Landin, 6-1, 6-1; Volye 
defeated Coyle, 6-1, 6-0; Bieg 
defeated Pietkiowicz, 6-2, 6-3; 
Williams defeated Russa, 6-1, 
6-1.
Mehalco? Martin 
Win Horseshoes
Joe Martin and Jack Mehalco 
won the IM horseshoe champion
ship by defeating Mike Flynn and 
Wicklander, of Phi Kappa. Mar
tin and Mehalco represented the 
Englishmen.
The match was held Saturday 
on the IM field with Bruce Bowen 
judging. The champions won the 
first game 21-15 but were defeated 
in the second match 21-16. How
ever, the winners came back 
strong in the last game to take a 
commanding lead and hold it for 
a 21-16 victory.
Runners
[continued from page 5] 
hurdles events and the broad 
jump and White who won the 100, 
220 and 440 yard dashes.
TRACK EVENTS:
100 yard dash: Won by Whyte,
Waynesburg; Paris, Tech, second, Lightner, Waynesburg. and Mihm, Tech, tied 
for third. Time:10.7.
220 yard dash: Won by Whyte, Waynes
burg; Suggs, Tech', second; Mihm. Tech, 
third. Time:24.2.
440 yard run: Won gy Whyte, Waynes
burg; Chanay, Tech, second; Suggs, Tech, third. Time:52.2.
120 yard low hurdles: Won by Shel
ton, Waynesburg; Miles, Tech, second; 
Lightner, Waynesburg, third. Time :13.6.
120 yard hjgh hurdes: Won by Shel
ton, Waynesburg; Miles. Tech, second; 
Moore, Tech, third. Time:16.2.
880 yard run: Won by Wittman, Tech; 
Chamay. Tech, second; King, Tech, third. Time2:06.4.
Mile; Won by Anderson. Hamilton and 
Ottervik, all of Tech, tied. Time5.09.
.Two miles: Won by Ottervik, Tech; 
Hamilton. Tech, second; Anderson, Tech, 
third. Time10:20.5.
Mile reday: Won by Tech (Wittman, 
King. Suggs, Chamay). Time3:41. 
FIELD EVENTS:
Javelin: Won by Frick, Tech; Banisnick, Waynesburg, second; Mankey, 
Waynesburg, third. Distance165 feet, three inches.
Pole Vault: Won by Schooley, Tech; 
Humes. Tech; Alexander, Tech, and Trim
ble, Waynesburg. tied for second. Height 
10 feet. 6 inches.
Shot:Won by Pence. Tech; Barclay, 
Waynesburg, second; Palaski, Tech, third. 
Distance36 feet.
Broad Jump: Won by Shelton, Waynes
burg; Alexander, Tech, second; Mihm, 
Tech, third. Distance  18 feet, ll/i 
inches.
High Jump; Won by Banasick, Waynes
burg; Serton, Waynesburg, second; Moore, 
Tech, third. Height5 feet, 6V* inches.
Discus: Won by Berg. Tech: Lemmer, 
Tech, second: Strauss, Tech, third. Dis
tance115 feet, 9 inches.
KS, Internationals 
In Soccer Finals
Kappa Sigma and the Interna
tional club will play off for the IM 
Soccer championship for 1958. 
Both teams have fast moving of
fenses supported by a strong backfield defense. The game shoul< le 
won by the team that makes the 
breaks for themselves.
Kappa Sig reached the finals by 
defeating ATO in a close match 
2-1. Everts and Livengood scored 
the winners goal,. while LaValle 
put the ball through for ATO. 
Then the Kappa Sigs won an ex
citing double overtime game from 
the Sigma NUs by the same s < ' 
2-1. The winning goal was scored 
on a corner kick that bounced off 
Zimmermans ankle and through 
the goal.
Meanwhile the Internationals 
defeated the Sigma Nus 3-1 in a 
fast moving game and then came 
from behind a 3 to 1 deficit to de
feat a hard playing ATO team 4-3. 
Rick Garcia scored all three of 
the ATO goals.
Due to th inclement weather at 
the beginning of the season the 
games were played on a playoff 
basis with no league contests be
ing held. The contests from the 
quarter finals were played on a 
double elimination basis.
THE MENTAL MARVEL mentioned above is so studious 
he made Phi Bete in his junior yearof high school! 
When he walks into classrooms, professors stand. The 
last time he got less than 100%, the proctor was 
cheating. When it comes to smoking, he gets straight 
As for taste. He smokes (All together, class!) Lucky 
Strike! Naturally, our student is fully versed on the 
subject of Luckys fine, light, good-tasting tobacco. 
Hes well aware that its toasted to taste even better. 
So when someone asks him for a cigarette, hes 
happy to spread the good taste. And that makes him 
a Kind Grind! Assignment: try Luckies yourself!
3460F iftF tFh6A Fvene u7 u
5PMaylow r1yo -8O
Sticklers are simple riddles with two-word rhyming answers. Both words must have the same number of syllables. (No drawings, please!) Well shell out $25 for all we use  and for hundreds that never see print. So send stacks of em with your name, address, college and class to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 
67 A, Mount Vernon, New York.
WHAT DO TV WRESTLERS USE?
CAROLYN NYCREN. Pseudo Judo 
PEU RROKE
WHAT IS A TERM EXAM IN FUSTICS?
ouaiM OUSMRMOUT, Vinyl Final 
nicmian
LIGHT UP A liSMOKE-LIGHT UP A LUCKY!
Product of cSt&vocr is our middU t ^

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 29, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
// II
(<& This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .......................................................Arden Elizabeth Bahl
ReportersRalph Czernek, Sandra Joy Dunn, Helen Bonner, Marlene 
Zappa, Yic Sabol, Dick Cortez.
A. A. Johnston Guest Speaker 
At Evening Students Banquet
The date of May 3 is marked for the Evening Students 
Banquet at Vogue Terrace. The main speaker, Mr. A. A. John
son, is a graduate of the University of Virginia. As well as be
ing a department manager at Westinghouse Electric Corp
oration, he is the director of AIEE.#-----------------------------------------------
To some people the menu might 
fall into the category of pertinent 
information. With that thought in 
mind we wish to advise that the 
dinner will consist of: fruit cup, 
head lettuce salad, ham or chicken, 
mashed potatoes, succotash, and 
Dutch apple pie. For those weight 
watchers who are sorry that they 
read the above menu, there will be 
continucus dancingif they can 
tear themselves away.
In the previous issue of the 
Plaid we mentioned that there will 
feC surprises and prizes. Among 
the prizes will be transistor radios, 
drafting machines, and slide rules 
just to mention a few. Surprises 
will be of a spontaneous and plan
ned nature.
Walt Harper
3460Fif4t
MAyflower 1-5270 
713 Clarissa Street
Newmanites Attend 
Middle Atlantic 
Province Conclave
Newman Club members from 
Pennsylvania, Maryland, and the 
District of Columbia participated 
in the thirty-seventh annual Mid
dle Atlantic Province Convention. 
Of the approximate 120 students 
present, 18 students represented 
Carnegie Tech.
The convention was held on 
April 18, 19, and 20 at Erie, Penn
sylvania with Gannon College as 
host. Arthur Bardner, mayor of 
Erie, was on hand to welcome the 
Newmanites. Father James OBrian, national chaplain, gave the 
main address on Saturday which 
was followed with a business ses
sion and election of officers. The 
highlights of the weekend program 
were a dialogue Mass and banquetgrand ball.
The attendants found that the 
brief time spent was enjoyable 
and profitable to them, education
ally, socially and spiritually.
New Styles 
Will Feature 
Male Handbags
By Arden Bahl
You dont need to be a Tech 
mathematician to know the short
est distance between two parallel 
lines is a parking space.
Some persons find that the only 
trouble with going to night school 
is that its so hard to sleep at work 
during the day.
When the sack dress came into 
style the boys did not hesitate in 
giving their thumbs-down verdict. 
However, if the Paris fad of 
males carrying handbags when at
tired in the new pocketless suits 
arrives in this vicinity, the gals 
will show how well they too can 
wiggle their thumbs. Cant you 
just picture 225 pounds of male 
dynamite delicately grasping a 
handbag in his chubby fingers. 
Sure, you can. As Confucius say, 
He who chuckles lasthas big
gest chuckle.
Maybe Im getting old. The 
other evening I happened to drive 
behind two young, girls in a con
vertible. Although the air was 
chilly, the roof was down. Am I 
out of season? The last remains 
of daylight had faded away, yet 
they still wore their sunglasses. 
Must I have my glasses recheck
ed? When they turned the corner
I was amazed to see that trend 
has changed from cigarettes to 
lollipops. Should I quit smoking? 
Whats wrong with me? Oh to be 
25 again!
Former Plait 
Personalities
Congratulations are the order of 
the day for Harry Thorn, president 
of Evening Student Council and 
Mary Alice Peterson, advisor, who 
have recently announced that they 
will join forces in August. We are 
always glad to see that advisors 
are taking their jobs to heart.
Former collaborators of the Plaid 
and council members, Ralph Czernek and Sandra Joy Dunn have 
announced they will establish a 
basis for future memories as they 
walk down the aisle on Memorial j 
Day.
At the recent MAP Convention ! 
of Newman Club, John J. Spisak, 
mechanical engineering student, ' 
was elected first vice chairman of j 
the province. Joanne Proulx was 
appointed regional director of the 
Pittsburgh region of Newman 
Clubs.
Annual Model 
United Nations
The Mid-Atlantic Model United 
Nations highlights the yearly pro
grams of clubs interested in inter
national relations and foreign pol
icy on numerous campuses in the 
states of Maryland, New Jersey, 
New York and Pennsylvania. Each 
college, having one or more dele
gations, represents one or more 
countries at this three day de
bating forum.
This year, the assembly was held 
at Wilkes College, Wilkes-Barre ] 
March 28-30 and forty-seven col
leges totaling 415 students repre-. 
senting fifty-seven nations attend
ed. Tech International Club mem
bers Elizabeth Beachley, J. Brugos,
A. Hanley, G. Kline, Dorothy  
Shaffer, M. Volpe and P. Wray 
formed the Spanish delegation.
General Assembly
The major portion of the as
sembly was devoted to meetings 
of four committees at which res
olutions were drafted, debated 
pon and finally accepted or rected by the committee. The fol
lowing problems were the con
cern of the four committees: Hun
gary, the establishment of a per
manent U. N. police force; the ad
ministration of technical assist
ance, freedom and information; 
the future government of French 
West Africa and Cyprus; and dis
armament.
The latter was the subject of a 
speech presented at the opening 
plenary sessions of the Assembly
by Harold E. Stassen. The res
olutions accepted by the commit
tees were again debated upon and 
a final vote was taken in the final 
plenary session.
Spains activity both in commit
tee and in the important caucuses, 
was far in excess of that justified 
by its economic and strategic po
sition in the world as it is.
As co-sponsors of several reso
lutions the delegation was instru
mental in bringing the passage #f 
those resolutions. Spain played an 
even more important role in the 
caucuses; in one committee the 
Spanish delegate was chairman of 
the N. A. T. O. caucus despite the 
fact that Spain is a non-pact coun
try. In another committee Spain 
acted as spokesman for a group 
of uncommitted nations.
In all the delegates, by their 
representation of Spain were 
worthy envoys of Carnegie Tech 
at this model U. N. Assembly of 
1958.
Tech Sororities 
Elect Officers 
For Coming Year
During the past two months, 
Tech sororities have elected and 
installed officers for 1958-59. 
Sorority officers for the coming 
year are as follows:
Alpha Epsilon Phi  president, 
Nancy Sloan; vice-president, Sher
ry Okum; secretary, Elaine Brown; 
treasurer, Jaycie Hersch.
Chi Omega  president, Barb 
Shannon; vice-president, Mary Jo 
Hill; secretary, Joan Seidel; treas
urer, Irene Dinning.
Delta Delta Delta  president, 
Marian Doepken; vice-president, 
Joan Litchfield; secretary, Nora 
Huhn; treasurer, Dottie Beehner.
Delta Gammapresident, Carol 
Sooby; 1st vice-president, Betsy 
Meyers; 2nd vice-president Mar
lene Garland; secretary, Lee Daw
son; treasurer, Peggy Barber.
Kappa Alpha Thetapresident, 
Mary Anne Gaetner; 1st. vicepresident.^. Sally Lindsay; 2nd vicepresident, Ellen Freshman; secre[continued on page 4J]
YES
?
NO
?
1111
1 1n
"lest your 
personality
/ \{ Taboo or not taooo - \\ that is the question J
have a Camel
R J Reynolds Tobacfo Company, 
Winuon-Salem. N. C.
But if you want to enjoy smoking as never before, 
switch to Camels. Nothing else tastes so rich, 
smokes so mild. Today more people smoke Camels 
than any other cigarette. The best tobacco gives 
you the best smoke. Try Camels and you'll agree!
If you answered No to all questions, you obvi
ously smoke Camels  a real cigarette. Only 6 or 
7 No answers mean you better get on to Camels 
fast. Fewer than 6 Nos and it really doesnt 
matter what you smoke. Anythings good enough!
Have a real cigaretteVt
1. Do you feel unqualified to judge a campus beauty contest?
(For men only!)_______________________________________
2. Do you think going to a big party the night before is the
best way to overcome pre-exam jitters?-----------------------
3. Do you find the company of the opposite sex annoying?-----
4. Do you think fads and fancy stuff can give you the full
tobacco flavor of a real cigarette?______________________
5. Whenever one of your professors makes a grammatical
error, do you call it to his attention?-----------------------------
6. Do you and your date sit in the back row of the balcony
only because youre both farsighted?---------------------------
7. Do you think cowboy shows will ever be banned from
television?__________________________________________
8. Do you consider Ibid. the most quoted Latin author?----------

---------------------------------------------------

o55T Wo5o1WaE R4nCt R46Aent RLFv 4LG
Oil helps create a new world of fashion
APARTMENTS TO RENT
Nice 4 room and bath fur
nished apt. Large living 
room, complete kitchen, 2 
bed rooms each with twin 
beds. Laundry facilities. 
For 4 students $31.25 each 
per month. Available June 
1st. . 
Also
Nicely furnished 2 room 
private bath and kitch
enette apt. Twin bed for 2 
students. $42.50 each per 
month. Phone JA 1-2497 
after 5 p.m. Available May 
1st.
Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 29. 195*
Weekend[continued from page 1] 
ulty will try to answer on this 
weekend.
Dr. Fenton served in the U.S. 
Army in Africa, Italy, and Oki
nawa from 1942 through 1946. He 
received his B.A. from the College 
of Wooster in 1948, his M.A. from 
Harvard in 1949 and his Ph.D. 
from Harvard in 1958. He has been 
a member of the history depart
ment for four years. His major 
field of interest is the intergroup 
relations in modern society and 
the connections between ethical 
positions and social action.
Dr. Curry
Dr. Curry earned his A.B. at 
Marshall College, his M.A. at 
West Virginia University and his 
Ph.D. at DukUniversity. He has 
published works on Woodrow Wil
son, foreign affairs and Civil War 
history.
The cost of registration for the 
weekend will be about seven dol
lars, this to include meals, trans
portation and lodging for the 
weekend. The number will be 
limited to thirty people on the 
first come first serve basis. All 
those who are interested are re
quested to register in the Y office 
on the second floor in the Union. 
If the quota is not completely 
filled, there will be a registering 
table in Skibo this Friday, April 
25, from 11:30 to 12:30 where late 
registration will be accepted.
Carnegie Buildings Include 
Ways To Combat City Smog
The first structure on Techs campus was Industries Hall. 
Today it is called Porter Hall. The men of 08 still enjoy 
telling of the scenes enacted each morning to determine 
whether the students or the workmen were to have this or 
that room for the day. Impatient, the Director had opened 
the doors of this first building be-^--------------------------------------------------
fore the carpenters, olasterers and 
plumbers had left. The building 
was finally completed in January, 
1906.
During the first two years, 
1905-06 and 1906-07, the work of 
all four schools, Arts, Industries, 
Engineering and Maggie Murph, 
was conducted in the original 
building. For this, the wings were 
divided into small classrooms by 
temporary partitions. Within a 
few years the partitions came 
down and the new buildings were 
ready for occupancy.
Maggie Murphs
The women moved to Margaret 
Morrison in September, 1907; the 
science men moved in December 
1908, to Engineering Hall. The ex
odus was completed in September 
191 when the art students carried 
their drafting boards, easels, 
paints, and smocks to the Fine 
Arts Building.
Now the original building, Por
ter Hall, became available, as 
planne.d at the start, for the ex
clusive use of the College of In
dustries, From 1905 until 1910 
when courses became of degree 
rank, the school was known as the 
School of Apprentices and Jour
neymen.
Administration Hall
Administration Hall, right in 
ffont of Porter Hall, came in 
October, 1914.
The outstanding features of this 
structure are its long corridors and 
its wings. There are numerous 
wings in order that every labora
tory and shop might receive light 
from three sides. This was import
ant in the Pittsburgh background 
of subnormal amounts of sunshine.
Cultural[continued from page 1]
Symphony No. 8 in B 
Minor (Unfinished) .Schubert 
Allegro Moderato 
Andante con moto
Scene and Aria from Lucia 
di Lammermoor (Mad
Scene ..........................Donizetti
Annette Elio, coloratura 
Soprano 
William Clark, flute obligato
II mio tesoro from
Don Giovanni................Mozart
John Warbrick, Jr., Tenor 
Concerto No. 1 in B Flat 
minor for Piano and
Orchestra, Op. 23................
.............................Tchaikovsky
Allegro non troppo e 
molto maestoso 
Valerie Gordon
Sororities[continued from page 71 
tary, Karen Hjerpstedt; treasurer. 
Sally Schwerzler.
Kappa Kappa Gamma  presi
dent, Cissie Rafferty; vice-presi
dent, Betty Erwin; secretary, Barb 
Krack; treasurer, Judy Wahl.
Sigma Kappapresident, Har
riet Fletcher; 1st vice-president, 
Bev Ciesielski; 2nd vice-president, 
Lois Witte, secretary, Mary Kneeland; treasurer, Barrie Stineman.
Honoraries
[continued from page 1] 
in the fall,
Seen wearing the traditional 
mortar boards last week were: 
Fran Bebic, Helen Weber, Dot 
Beehner, M. J. Stevens, Cissie
Rafferty, Marian Rosenblatt, Jan 
Felmetb, Betty Erwin, Sally Lind
say, Marian Woepken, Irene Din
ning. Carol Sooby, Nar^cy Edgar, 
Mary Jo Hill, Natalie Laird, and 
Ruth Vysoky.
Delta Skull has called the fol
lowing junior men to membership: 
Rober Reinke, Dick Aust, Ray 
Nix, Hilliard Wood, Ed McEwen, 
Don Beaman, Jeremiah SullrfjrX 
Bart Alexander, Bill Oldman, Nat 
Teich, Merrill King, Ed Werner, 
and Ned Ardalan.
Phi Tau Gamma, honorary for 
junior women, has not made its 
call to date, but will do so at Call 
Day of Carnival Weekend.
Cwens
Eighteen freshmen girls have 
been tapped for Cwens. They are: 
Penny Cragon, Vivienne Heinricher, Judy Heinsburg, Carol K$\ - 
trick, Jan Madden, Eleanore Micenko, Jan Notopoulos, Mary Scannell, Ann Sowell, Nancy Tull, 
Claire Brown, Maxine Brown, 
Dotty Cole, Gretchen Friebertshauser, Harriet Horn, Beverly 
Patton, .Alice Peck and Kathy 
Sproat.
Scimitars, sophomore mens 
honorary also has called eighteen 
members. They are Howard 
Waugh, Ed Blum, Ted Willia^ js, 
Myron Salamon, John Kahler, 
Phil James, Don Haney, Gary 
Turnquist, John Crecine, John 
Hood, Bill Pence, David Mears, 
Raymond Fessler, George Eskin, 
Lester Brickman, John Lepperd 
and John Oehler.
Observations
[continued from page 4] 
be a war to end all men. If this 
occurs, it is because we have al
lowed ourselves to get into the 
position.
I admit this is removing the 
means without removing the cause. 
But if we dont remove the means 
we are liable to remove the cause. 
Besides, it is much easier to deal 
with the means in this case than 
it is to try to cure the cause of its 
ailments. The latter is a more 
complex problem, one which has 
remained unsolved for centuries.
Max Ascoli 
If we can get rid of the ultimate 
threat, the disappearance of civil
ization, we can go on trying to 
figure out why we are such ani
mals. Maybe its because we are 
animals and shouldnt pretend to 
be anything else; maybe its not. 
At any rate, in the words of Max 
Ascoli, editor and publisher of The 
Reporter magazine:
This inane business is bound to 
come to an end. There must be 
disengagement from outer space 
and atomic tests must be suspend
ed. When this happens many peo
ple will be unhappy, and most of 
all Dr. Teller. No atomic scientist 
we know of has ever gone so far 
in lending to his political opinions 
the prestige he has legitimately 
gained in the laboratory. Our 
country needs scientists like Tel
ler, just as it is imperative that 
Tellers opinions be answered by 
men like Harrison Brown. But 
lets not do to Teller what Teller 
and his friends did to Oppenheimer.
GRETA PLATTRV
A fine wool sweater owes much of its lovely look to a special oil developed by Esso Research.
By lubricating the threads during knitting, it helps them mesh together smoothly and 
evenly. After knitting, the oil is easily removed. Without oils like this, 
the springy texture and intricate designs of todays fashionable woolens f%
wouldnt be possible. Again ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oil * '
