PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SCITECHFORUM
Fall fashion trends come to campus  B8
Tiramisu provides public transport information  A4Concussions should be treated more seriously  A6
thetartan.org
@thetartan
November 4, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 10
Pittsburgh mayoral election approaches
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
NOL UM
News Co-Editors 
Pittsburghs 2013 mayoral election between Democrat nominee 
Bill Peduto and Republican nominee 
Josh Wander takes place tomorrow.
Current mayor Luke Ravenstahl, 
announced his decision not to run 
for re-election last March, and has 
become less and less prominent in 
his role as mayor since then.
Ravenstahls path toward leaving the of?ce has been speckled 
with controversy. Two weeks ago, 
Ravenstahl tweeted messages about 
his legacy from his home and from 
a nearby country club during the 
workday. 
Ravenstahl has been criticized 
for being aloof and absent ever since 
he withdrew from the race.
Ravenstahl is also known to 
have unfriendly political ties with 
Peduto; according to the Pittsburgh 
Tribune-Review, during the primary 
race Ravenstahl allegedly used campaign money after he drew out of 
the race to air advertisements critical of Peduto. 
Peter Masters steps down from SBVP role
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
NOL UM
News Co-Editors 
Peter Masters, junior international relations and 
politics and philosophy double major, resigned from his 
position as student body vice 
president for the fall semester, citing personal reasons.
Masters said that he needs 
to take a step back and take 
care of [himself] a little bit. 
He will be taking a leave 
of absence for the spring 
semester.
I wholeheartedly support Masterss decision to 
step down and understand 
that while he was doing great 
work for the student body, 
this was absolutely the best 
decision for him to make, 
said Lindsay MacGillivray, 
senior biology major and 
student body president. His 
resignation does not in any 
way re?ect the work that he 
did while in the role, and I 
know that he will still be able 
to stay engaged with students 
on campus.
Peter Masters did a wonderful job in his position as 
VP. His creativity paired with 
his extensive prior experience with student government on campus, made him 
an excellent candidate for 
the VP position, and he was 
working on many different 
projects that would bene?t 
the student body in a number 
of ways, she continued.
As student body vice president, Masters was in the process of spearheading several 
campus initiatives, including 
improvements in dining and 
outdoor study spaces. Masters is working on creating 
a Carnegie Mellon survival 
guide that gives tips on how 
to succeed at Carnegie Mellon to ?rst-year students. 
One of the biggest things 
I am personally passionate 
about is dining here, Masters said in an interview. A 
big thing for me was creating an allergen-free location 
and having more late night 
options, since a lot of CMU 
students seem to stay up forever.
Masters, although he is 
resigning, will continue supporting these causes. VP is 
really just a title, and these 
are all things that Im very 
passionate about and will 
continue working on, Masters said.
Following Masterss resignation, MacGillivray began 
the search for someone to 
ful?ll his role. According to 
MacGillivray, she tentatively 
plans to appoint junior electrical and computer engineering major and student 
government cabinet member 
Ian Glasner as Masterss replacement, pending approval 
from Student Senate and the 
Graduate Student Assembly. 
According to the student government constitution, which 
can be viewed online at www.
cmu.edu/stugov/policies, 
if the [student body vice 
president] position becomes 
vacant, the president may 
appoint a member of the 
student body to ?ll the position. Either Student Senate 
or the Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) may reject this 
appointment by way of twothirds supermajority vote at 
a regular meeting of student 
senate or the graduate student assembly, respectively.
Since the position is 
now an appointed position, 
I used different networks of 
students to solicit suggestions for new vice president 
candidates, speci?cally Senate, GSA, and my cabinet. 
After receiving different 
suggestions from students, I 
interviewed four different excellent candidates for the position and ultimately decided 
that Ian Glasner would be my 
appointment, MacGillivray 
said.
Glasner is currently a 
community adviser in the 
Residence on Fifth, a member of MacGillivrays student 
government cabinet, a brother of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and a founder of an 
Colin Powell speaks on value of diplomacy
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
Former Secretary of State 
Colin Powell spoke at the 
Carnegie Music Hall last 
Tuesday at an event hosted 
by the American Middle East 
Institute. 
The talk was titled Diplomacy: Persuasion, Trust and 
Values, and Powell devoted 
his time to addressing his four 
Es: the economy, energy, the 
environment, and education.
Powell was born to Jamaican immigrants in Harlem  
and went on to become a fourstar general in the military. 
In 1987, Powell was selected 
to serve as President Ronald 
Reagans national security adviser, and then served as the 
chairman of the joint chiefs 
of staff for Presidents George 
H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton 
before being appointed as secretary of state for President 
George W. Bush.
The event drew a considerable audience, nearly ?lling the venue. Simin Curtis, 
the president and CEO of the 
American Middle East Institute, opened the event. 
Powells speech was the 
conclusion to a day-long business conference on energy 
and water hosted by the Institute. Numerous Middle Eastern dignitaries attended the 
event, including former Egyptian ministers, Libyan Deputy 
Minister of Oil and Gas Abdulbari Arousi, as well as what 
Curtis described as the crme 
de la crme of American CEOs 
[of] water and renewable energy [companies].
Pennsylvania Governor 
Tom Corbett introduced Powell and remarked that The 
tradition of the soldier-statesman dates back to George 
Washington, referencing 
Powells military service, and 
after reading quotes from 
Powells writings and interviews, added, Powell is an 
emblem of what America does 
well.
Powell then took the stage, 
complimenting the American 
Middle East Institute, saying, 
They understand the importance of understanding cultures of different people in 
different parts of the world.
He spoke of the value of 
economic activity in Middle 
Eastern development, remarking, When you think about 
what happens in the Middle 
East, its not just about wars 
and con?icts. Powell recalled 
anecdotes from his diplomatic 
experience, highlighting the 
desire for jobs and work in 
that area of the world.
Powell praised the value 
of the creation of wealth, 
not that just goes to the top 
of the pile, but that brings us 
up from poverty, recalling 
when he toured China shortly 
after the Cultural Revolution. 
I could see that these people 
wanted a better life, he said.
What does it take to industrialize? Energy. Powell 
added that in the near future, 
energy will be so in demand 
that anything that can be produced will ?nd a market.
Powell spoke favorably of 
natural gas extraction from 
Pennsylvanias Marcellus 
Shale deposits, claiming that 
shale gas put the state in a 
unique position to supply energy. He added, but we must 
do this in a way not to destroy 
the environment.
Powell spoke of how Pennsylvanias economy used to 
rely on petrochemicals and 
manufacturing, but has improved its environmental conditions. Its now education 
and medicine here in Pittsburgh more than manufacturing.
Drawing on his modest 
background when speaking 
about education, Powell said, 
It isnt where you start in life, 
its where you end up.
Powell admitted that he 
did not have the best high 
school grades, but I went to 
school and college without it 
costing my parents a dime. 
He praised the decision 
of New York tax payers to 
choose to fund the education 
of low-income students, adding I think every community 
in America should make that 
kind of commitment to education in America.
He continued, We need 
to educate our youngsters for 
a different kind of economy: 
a more sophisticated one, 
where education matters now 
more than it ever did before.
Powell also went on to 
share some personal stories 
throughout his time on stage. 
I have to be candid with you, 
he began, at this point in my 
life and career Im just glad to 
Courtesy of Alex Cooper Webster
Student body president Lindsay MacGillivray and recently resigned 
student body vice president Peter Masters. 
Courtesy of Charles Haynes
Former Secretary of State Colin Powell gave a talk titled Diplomacy: Persuasion, Trust and Values at Carnegie Music Hall last Tuesday. 
See POWELL, A3
College Board releases annual reports tuition and ?nancial aid 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
The College Board recently 
released its annual Trends in 
College Pricing report, which 
shows the increase in tuition, 
fees, and room and board at 
U.S. institutions of higher education. The report examines 
how the prices of both public 
and private institutions in the 
U.S. have ?uctuated in recent 
years.
The Trends in College Pricing report measures college 
tuition by several different 
metrics, including published 
price  the price a college 
or university gives  and net 
price, which, according to the 
College Board, is the published price minus the grant 
aid that students receive.
The College Board notes 
in the online version of the 
Trends in College Pricing report that net prices are frequently much lower than published prices and represent 
the amount students actually 
pay.
According to the report, 
the average cost of out-ofstate and in-state tuition, fees, 
room, and board for public, 
four-year colleges went up 
3.2 percent within the past 
year. For private, nonpro?t, 
four-year institutions  which 
include Carnegie Mellon   
prices rose 3.7 percent.
While the national average 
net price for private, nonpro?t, 
four-year colleges increased in 
line with total sticker price, ?-
nancial aid  as measured by 
both federal and private loans 
and grants  has decreased in 
the past year.
According to the College 
Boards 2013 Trends in Student Aid report, released in 
conjunction with the Trends 
in College Pricing report, total national average aid in 
the 201112 academic year 
was $15,696; in 201213 it 
decreased $163 to $15,533. 
These ?gures include national 
averages for several forms of 
aid, ranging from private student loans to subsidized and 
unsubsidized federal loans 
and education tax bene?ts.
This years percent increase 
in college tuition is the lowest it has been since the mid 
1970s. College tuition and 
fees, however, are still rising 
faster than U.S. in?ation. The 
Consumer Price Index (CPI) 
is a tool used by the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics to measure in?ation; according to 
the Bureaus website, the CPI 
program produces monthly 
data on changes in the prices 
paid by urban consumers for a 
representative basket of goods 
and services.
The CPI increased from 
230.79 in May 2012 to 
232.945 in August 2013, an 
increase of about 1 percent. 
This is signi?cantly lower than 
the increase in college price 
reported by the College Board.
At the beginning of every 
spring semester, Carnegie 
Mellon announces the tuition 
and fees for the upcoming academic year. 
In February, a campus-wide 
email sent out by Vice President for Campus Affairs Michael Murphy announced that 
there would be a 4 percent increase in new undergraduate 
tuition rates and a 3 percent 
See AID, A3
See our candidate breakdown on A3
See SBVP, A3

---------------------------------------------------

Thrive@CMU, a mini designed to address recent issues 
raised about Carnegie Mellons 
stress culture, is in progress. 
Teaching assistant evaluations 
are mostly being handled by 
the Graduate Student Assembly this semester. A speaker 
may come to an upcoming 
Senate meeting to talk about 
mid-semester evaluations. Recently, Academic Affairs Committee members have listened 
in on Student Advisory Council 
meetings for various majors. 
Academic Affairs is considering using part of its budget to 
purchase new printers.
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 4, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
Lisa Freeman lectures on censorship
WEATHER
Assisting an Outside 
Agency 
Oct. 27, 2013
A University Police of?cer 
assisted in apprehending a 
burglary suspect just past 6 
a.m. The of?cer heard the description of the suspect on a 
Pittsburgh Police radio channel. The of?cer saw a male 
matching the description traveling west on Forbes Avenue, 
and he physically detained 
the suspect after the suspect 
resisted. Pittsburgh Police of?cers responded as back up, 
and took the suspect into custody. The suspect was wanted 
in relation to a residential 
burglary on the 5500 block of 
Forbes Avenue.
Massage Table Theft 
Oct. 28, 2013
Carnegie Mellon police of?cers responded to a report 
of a stolen massage table. The 
victim of the theft stated that 
the massage table was stolen 
between 5:306 a.m. The table had been left unattended 
under the Gesling Stadium 
bleachers.
Harassment 
Oct. 28, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
summoned University Police 
to ?le a harassment report. 
The student was sitting on a 
bench outside of Hunt Library 
when a white woman 5060 
years old approached her and 
demanded that she give her 
popcorn. The victim stated 
that the woman continued to 
harass her regarding the popcorn she had with her. University Police was contacted 
hours later, and could not locate the female.
Cardboard Cutout Theft 
Oct. 31, 2013
University Center management summoned University Police regarding a 6 tall 
cardboard cutout of Scotty, 
the Carnegie Mellon mascot, 
being stolen. The cutout was 
taken from the entrance of the 
University Centers Connan 
Room. According to University Center Management, the 
cardboard cutout was placed 
at the entrance of the Connan 
Room at 7:30 a.m. They realized the cutout was stolen at 
1 p.m. This investigation is 
ongoing.
Cash Theft 
Oct. 31, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
and member of the Delta Tau 
Delta fraternity reported a 
theft of cash from a fraternity 
fundraiser fund. According to 
the student, between 11 p.m. 
Monday, Oct. 28 and 8 p.m. 
Wednesday, Oct. 30, $110 
was stolen from a money bag 
sitting in the Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity house kitchen.
Cell Phone Theft 
Nov. 1, 2013
University Police received 
a report of a stolen cell phone 
from a contracted cleaning 
employee. Upon investigation, 
University Police determined 
that a member of the same 
cleaning crew had stolen the 
cell phone. Of?cers placed 
the suspect under arrest hours 
after the initial theft report. 
The suspect was taken to the 
Allegheny County Jail and is 
being charged with theft.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Caption Caption Caption
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
The creative writing department will welcome Kevin 
Gonzalez and Lauren Shapiro 
to Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh with a special reading 
on Nov. 12 at 4:30 p.m.
Gonzalez is a Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus who received bachelors degrees in 
creative writing and international relations. 
Shapiro has degrees from 
Brown University and Iowa 
Writers Workshop.
 The two will join a 
decorated group of poets 
and writers in the English 
department.
Currently at Carnegie Mellon, Gonzalez teaches Beginning Fiction Workshop and 
Beginning Poetry Workshop. 
Gonzalez  has written a 
poetry collection, Cultural 
Studies, and  is currently writing a novel.
 Gonzalezs novel has had 
excerpts published in Playboy, Narrative magazine, Best 
New American Voices, and 
Best American Nonrequired 
Reading.
Shapiro, experienced in 
book editing, publishing, and 
literary translation, wrote a 
book, Easy Math, which won 
the Kathryn A. Morton Prize.
According to a press release, Gonzalez said, I feel 
extremely fortunate to have 
been able to return to CMUs 
Creative Writing Program as 
a faculty member. My experience as an undergrad here 
undoubtedly shaped me in 
many ways, as a writer, an editor, and even as a teacher. Although writing itself is a solitary act, I ?nd that I, and most 
writers that I know, work best 
when part of a thriving literary community. The program 
at CMU is unparalleled, as 
far as undergraduate creative writing programs go, 
in building a strong sense of 
community between students 
and faculty.
Special reading hosted by writing department to welcome new members
Lower wealth leads to higher risk of colds according to CMU researchers
Lower socioeconomic 
status in childhood and 
adolescence makes aging 
individuals more prone to 
disease, according to the 
?ndings of Carnegie Mellon 
researchers. 
The study, published in 
Brain, Behavior and Immunity, shows that children and 
adolescents go on to have 
shorter telomeres, biomarkers of age in a cells DNA 
that naturally get shorter 
with age. Shorter telomeres 
eventually cease to function, causing the cell to die. 
Shorter telomeres are also 
connected to cardiovascular 
disease and cancer, among 
other diseases and health 
problems.
Sheldon Cohen, the Robert E. Doherty Professor of 
Psychology at Carnegie Mellon, and his team took 152 
healthy volunteers between 
ages 1855 and measured 
their white blood cell telomere lengths. 
To judge socioeconomic 
status, the researchers had 
participants report whether 
they owned a home and 
whether their parents owned 
the family home during their 
childhood. Participants were 
exposed to a rhinovirus, 
which often starts a cold, 
and were quarantined ?ve 
days to determine whether 
they had an upper respiratory infection. Less wealthy 
participants had shorter 
telomere lengths compared 
to their peers. For every year 
a participants parent did not 
own a home, their telomeres 
were on average 5 percent 
shorter than their peers.
According to a press release, Cohen said, We have 
found initial evidence for 
a biological explanation of 
the importance of childhood 
experiences on adult health. 
The association we found 
in young and midlife adults 
suggests why those raised 
by parents of relatively low 
socioeconomic status may be 
at increased risk for disease 
throughout adulthood.
Committee Update: Business AffairsCommittee Update: Academic AffairsCommittee Update: Campus Life
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
46 / 36
SATURDAY
High / Low
52 / 37
SUNDAY
High / Low
48 / 32
TUESDAY
High / Low
56 / 41
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
62 / 55
THURSDAY
High / Low
57 / 35
Senate will be hosting a senior lecture series, for which 
students nominate seniors 
they consider successful to 
give a speech. The nomination form should be on the 
Carnegie Mellon Undergraduate Student Senate Facebook 
page soon. The lectures will 
be held on Feb. 20, 2014; 
March 20, 2014; and April 17, 
2014. 
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
ALVIN MATHEW
Points of Discussion
Senators have not been 
very interested in events 
hosted by the Internal Development Committee this semester, so Senate discussed 
methods for getting memberes to attend such events. 
Senate agreed that the events 
themselves dont matter as 
much as actually getting Senators to attend. One suggestion was a Senate Christmas 
party. 
The Academic Affairs 
Committee is looking to create a set of guidelines outlining a level of decorum and 
common courtesy for students. These would not be 
strictly enforced rules, but a 
set of community standards.  
Academic Affairs is looking 
for ideas about what to include in these guidelines.
The campus life committee tabled on Wednesday and 
Friday in front of Doherty Hall 
and successfully distributed 500 
cookies and 32 gallons of cider 
for free to the student body. 
Tazza DOro, who sponsored 
the event by providing the cider, 
was pleased with the outcome.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Lisa A. Freeman lectured on censorship and its role in performance art last Thursday. Freemans lecture, titled Adjudicating Bodies in Public in 
NEA v. Finley, discussed the 1990 controversy involving four performance artists whose National Endowment for the Arts grants were revoked 
because they violated the organizations decency and respect clause. Freeman was hosted by Carnegie Mellons Center for the Arts in Society.  

---------------------------------------------------

be anywhere.
He described that leaving 
his position as secretary of 
state was a dif?cult transition. 
Ive been out of government 
for a few years, but I still think 
about it, and jokingly offered 
the advice, If anyone else 
in this room has any kind of 
dif?culty in their 70s, buy a 
Corvette.
In addition to a new car 
and several major lifestyle 
changes, Powell said, Im 
probably as busy now as I ever 
was. Its just a different kind 
of busy, describing his speaking tours and work in venture 
capital.
His speech then turned 
to current events, with Powell emphatically warning, I 
dont want to get into an argument about Obamacare. 
I dont know enough about 
it. I have socialized medicine 
from the military and Im 
happy with it. But we need to 
make sure everyone has access, continuing on to say it 
was unacceptable that a country as wealthy as the United 
States had people without 
some kind of access to health 
care.
Powell then addressed 
Congressional gridlock and 
political polarization. What I 
say to my friends in Congress 
is you guys are in big trouble 
now, he said. 
He stressed the importance of compromise, referencing the extreme compromises in the Constitutional 
Convention, They even had 
to compromise on the awful, 
horrible issue of slavery.
If they could sit there for 
just a few weeks and come 
out with our Constitution, 
tell me why Congress cant sit 
there and compromise on a 
budget.
He continued to be critical 
of government spending, and 
Congressmen not realizing 
the books have to balance.
Powell revealed that he 
now only watches foreign 
news sources, and criticized 
the polarization caused by 
networks such as FOX and 
MSNBC. He concluded his 
remarks on Congress by saying, When I was young I saw 
leaders in Congress then. 
There arent any now.
Powell told some illustrative stories about leadership 
and organizational management, and also addressed the 
current state of American security. We are no longer in 
the kind of danger we were 
before 9/11, but we need to 
maintain our safety without 
showing the rest of the world 
that were scared, adding, 
We cant let that happen or 
the terrorists win.
Questions submitted prior 
to the event asked Powell of 
his opinions on the National 
Security Agency (NSA) spying scandal and Iraq, amongs 
other topics.
On the NSA, Powell said, 
We have a great capability 
in the NSA and other security 
organizations. Sometimes we 
need to listen in on our allies. 
But this will come back our 
way, adding, Youd have to 
make quite a case to me, if I 
were still in government, on 
why we need to listen in on 
Angela Merkels cell phone.
Addressing whether Iraq 
is better off than in 2003, 
Powell responded, Yes, it no 
longer has Saddam Hussein 
terrorizing its people.
Powell concluded his talk 
with some general remarks 
about Americas place in the 
world. Were still number 
one, but in a different kind 
of way. We have to be understanding. With respect to 
con?icts such as those in Syria and Egypt, Powell advised, 
America should not believe 
we have a magic solution for 
these problems. He added 
that we not interfere until other countries are ready 
to receive it.
Powell referenced his parents immigration to America, 
and told stories about his 
encounters with immigrant 
workers in America. As long 
as we remain an open country we will continue to lead 
this world that wants to be 
free.
November 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
music.cmu.edu
Free with a CMU ID at the door.
Sunday, November 10, 7:30pm
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
CMU Wind Ensemble  
George Vosburgh &
Thomas Thompson, Co-Directors
Stephen Story, Associate Director
CARNEGIE 
MELLON
SCHOOL 
OF MUSIC
  201314 CONCERT SERIES
National average college tuition risesPittsburgh mayoral candidate breakdown
increase for current students 
for the 201314 year.
Over the past 10 years, the 
university has consistently 
increased tuition by between 
$1,000 and $3,000 each year. 
For an incoming, fulltime, resident student in 
2006, tuition was $41,608. 
Full-time resident students 
entering in 2013 had a tuition 
of $46,670. 
This ?gure does not include room and board and 
other fees.
This ?gure is in line with 
many of Carnegie Mellons 
peer institutions. Washington University in St. Louis, for 
example, charges $42,500 
for tuition alone. According 
to an article in Wash. U.s  
Newsroom, this is a 3.8 percent increase from the previous year.
At New York University, 
tuition for an undergraduate 
student entering the College 
of Arts and Sciences in 2013 
was $42,472. 
At the University of Rochester, according to their 
website, tuition increased 
3.9 percent from $42,890 to 
$44,580 for the current academic year.
Regarding ?nancial aid, 
the university reports that it 
gave out 5,393 scholarships 
for the 201213 year, with 
an average award sum of 
$17,911.20 per person.
Powell comes to Pittsburgh
POWELL, from A1
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Swathi Anand/Layout Manager
AID, from A1
organization that will travel 
to Haiti to support communities there.
Ian brings a variety of different experiences and skills 
to the vice president position.... I am excited about the 
opportunity to work with Ian 
and am con?dent in his abilities to quickly matriculate into 
the position, MacGillivray 
said. Since he has served as 
part of my cabinet, he understands the initiatives that we 
are working on currently and 
has some great new ideas to 
bring to the table as well.
In this upcoming week, 
MacGillivray will present her 
nomination of Glasner to Student Senate and the GSA.
The approval  will of?ciate 
Glasner as the new student 
body vice president. 
Once we have gotten this 
approval, we will make a 
more formal announcement, 
MacGillivray said. 
Currently, Ian and I have 
been meeting to adjust our 
platform to meet our combined ambitions and address 
the needs of campus. We will 
also most likely be changing 
our of?ce hours and ?nding 
more unique ways to reach 
out to the student body. The 
announcement of SBVP will 
be released sometime this 
week. 
SBVP, from A1SBVP Peter Masters resigns
Tuition cost for incoming ?rst-years has increased over the years, 
according to data that was collected from Carnegie Mellon University 
press releases and tuition fact sheets.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  November 4, 2013
Center receives $4.6 million to improve transit app
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
When most people hear Tiramisu, they think of the delicious, coffee-?avored pastry. 
But it turns out that tiramisu 
is actually Italian for pickme-up, which is why Carnegie Mellons Rehabilitation 
Engineering Research Center 
(RERC) on Accessible Public Transportation developed 
a bus rider information app 
called Tiramisu Transit with a 
$4.6 million, ?ve-year grant. 
This grant has recently been 
renewed, giving the researchers and their collaborators at 
the University at Buffalo, The 
State University of New York 
(UB) an additional ?ve years 
to continue their research on 
accessible transportation.
At any given time, there are 
about 1520 different RERCs 
around the country focusing 
on different topics. They are 
funded from within the National Institute on Disability 
and Rehabilitation Research 
(NIDRR), a research and development unit in the Of?ce 
of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, which 
is within the Department of 
Education.
Some of the RERCs are 
on things that are really traditional to the whole issue of 
education, you know  workplace accommodations, systems to help with augmented 
communication, projects related to blindness and deafness  that sort of thing, said 
Aaron Steinfeld, the principal 
investigator of the accessible 
transportation RERC and associate research professor in the 
Robotics Institute. He works in 
the Quality of Life Technology 
Center (QoLT) at Carnegie 
Mellon. So where does transportation come in?
According to the Department of Education, the main 
mission of all RERCs is to 
solve rehabilitation problems 
and remove environmental 
barriers. Accessible transportation is a key component to 
achieving this mission because 
all effort spent on educating 
individuals with disabilities 
and improving their workplace environments is useless 
if they cannot go to school or 
work in the ?rst place. 
Our focus is very much 
skewed towards independent 
mobility around your community. Were heavily focused on 
public transit and getting to 
public transit, Steinfeld said. 
Their focus on public transit 
is due to how expensive the 
alternative, paratransit, tends 
to be.
The collaboration between 
Carnegie Mellon and UB 
brings together a very interdisciplinary group of researchers. The Carnegie Mellon team 
consists mainly of people in 
the Robotics Institute, the 
Human-Computer Interaction Institute, the Institute for 
Software Research, and some 
members from the School of 
Design. On the other hand, the 
team at UB  which is actually led by Steinfelds father, Edward Steinfeld  consists of 
people in architecture, design, 
and industrial engineering.
Tiramisu Transit, a rider 
information app that was developed during the ?rst ?veyear RERC, is a good example 
of this mixture of computer 
science and universal design. 
The app utilizes crowdsourcing to gather information such 
as when and where buses are 
and how full they are. Most 
of the people who use it dont 
realize that the design of Tiramisu and the information 
were attempting to gather 
with it is information that is 
really critical for people with 
disabilities, Steinfeld said. 
This is the basis of universal design. By packaging it in 
a way that makes the information appealing and valuable 
to everybody, we lead to more 
people using it and greater opportunities for the system to 
sustain itself beyond research 
and development, he said.
While all riders are interested in knowing when a bus 
will come or how full it will 
be, this type of information 
is particularly important for 
riders with disabilities. For 
example, someone in a wheelchair would only be able to 
ride a bus with fewer riders. 
More generally, this app will 
also help those who cannot 
wait outside for long periods 
of time due to potential crime 
in the area or poor weather 
conditions and want to know 
when the next bus will come.
Another success that came 
out of the ?rst ?ve-year grant 
is that prior to it, the Port Authority of Allegheny County 
did not have the ability to 
track buses. While they had 
GPS on some of the buses, 
they were unable to communicate that location back to the 
servers and then share the location to the public. As part of 
the RERC, the Port Authority 
tested this capability on one 
of its routes and will be aiming 
to extend it to the rest of the 
agency.
In the next ?ve years, we 
will use Tiramisu to explore 
certain research questions related to the impact of this information on people with disabilities, Steinfeld said. They 
are also in the process of adding dialogue capability within 
the app so that people will be 
able to attach messages to speci?c buses and stops. 
Other plans for the new 
RERC include working with 
the Traf?c21 program at Carnegie Mellon to combine Tiramisu with real-time optimization of paratransit systems and 
working with the researchers 
who developed NavPal, which 
helps blind people navigate 
through Pittsburgh.
HOW THINGS WORKBrainwashing depends on usage of schemata, brain structure
Courtesy of Tiramisu
The bus app Tiramisu shows estimated arrival times for bus stops.
File photo by Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Tiramisu aims to help bus riders with special needs by making them aware of upcoming buses that are full.
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Brainwashing and thought 
control have had an impact 
on a variety of people and cultures throughout history, and 
can be traced all the way back 
to the fourth century BCE.
Brainwashing is the process 
of forcing people to fundamentally change their beliefs. 
Despite the fact that brainwashing is an age-old idea, it 
has taken on a new meaning in 
todays society with advancements in neuroscience: Scientists are now able to  at least 
partially  understand brainwashing techniques and their 
effects.
A persons brain is not ?xed 
but is continually changing, 
sometimes in imperceptable 
ways. In the past, people assumed that once they mature, 
their brains  and thus their 
identities  could not dramatically change.
According to Kathleen Taylor in her book Brainwashing: 
The Science of Thought Control, this older theory generally did not support the idea 
of brainwashing, as it would 
require peoples identities to 
completely shatter in order  
to work. Recently, however, 
it has become clear that the 
brain constantly takes in information and alters the way it 
functions.
The brain, along with all   
the nerves in the body, is made 
of cells called neurons that are 
capable of sending signals to 
each other. Each of these neurons receives a multitude of 
signals that help develop ones 
personality and perceptions of 
the world. 
Neurons can then further 
send off signals in response to 
those they receive. Through 
analyzing past input and output signals, the brain can predict the immediate future and 
then compare its prediction 
with what actually occurs. In 
this way, the brain learns from 
the past and more accurately 
understands how to react to 
stimuli.
One of the main implications of this view of the brain 
is the ability of one person to 
have more than one persona. 
The brain changes and reacts 
differently to different situations, so a person accordingly 
reacts differently in different 
circumstances. 
For example, the way 
someone acts in a job interview is generally very different from the way that person 
acts at home. These different 
personae are often called schemata, and are only activated 
under certain circumstances. 
This means that a person can 
have dormant schemata, and 
that they can create new ones. 
The presence of multiple schemata makes the idea of brainwashing much more plausible. 
In order to be brainwashed, a 
person only needs to have a 
dormant schema activated or 
have a new schema created, 
rather than have their entire 
persona modi?ed.
Schemata can also refer to 
the brains recognition of certain objects. Both the input 
and output signals in a neuron 
are extremely speci?c, meaning that the representation of 
a single object in the brain is 
created by a group of neurons, 
not by any single neuron. As 
a person experiences an object, they develop a schema 
for that object. This schema 
includes everything related 
to the object, including visual 
appearance, sounds, related 
emotions, and related actions.
Now the question becomes, 
how is the strength of the schemata determined? The more 
these schemata activate, the 
stronger they become. This 
explains why people become 
used to things that they experience on a regular basis. 
In order for brainwashing to 
occur, the relative strength of 
the schemata must be altered. 
This is done by manipulating a 
persons emotions, their brains 
aptitude for change and stress, 
and their prefrontal cortex.
Taylor explains that evolutionary biologists believe emotion is used for survival, and is 
meant to suf?ce when there is 
not time to fully process information. Because of this, emotion is generally not coupled 
with logical reasoning. This 
has the potential to lead people to strengthen schemata 
that they do not generally activate.
The brains aptitude for 
change and stress can also affect schemata. Neurons work 
best when they receive varied stimuli, and can become 
dormant otherwise. When 
a person is initially stressed, 
neurons recognize the change 
and become more alert. When 
stress persists, however, the 
neurons become overworked 
and ignore incoming signals. 
Because of this, people are 
more likely to abandon their 
preferred schemata when under stress.
Finally, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) can affect schemata. 
The PFC is the part of the brain 
that allows a person to stop 
and think before acting. Taylor 
says that the PFC shuts down 
when it is activated and then 
overstimulated with information. Once the PFC has shut 
down, a person is no longer 
able to think before acting, 
which can lead to the acceptance of a previously disapproved schema.
The science of brainwashing is a topic that is inextricably linked to many aspects of 
our society, including the integration of technology in society and advertisement, and 
could greatly affect the way 
society functions as we learn 
more about the way the brain 
operates.Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Robert E. Doherty 
1936  1950Thomas S. Baker
1922  1935
John Christian Warner
1950  1965
H. Guyford Stever
1965  1972
Arthur A. Hamerschlag
1903  1922Richard M. Cyert
1972  1990
Robert Mehrabian
1990  1997Jared L. Cohon
1997  2013
Subra Suresh
2013
JOIN THE CELEBRATION
NOVEMBER 14  15
www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
PRESIDENTIAL HIGHLIGHTS
#CMUsuresh
 During his tenure, Carnegie Institute of Technology merged with Mellon Institute of Research to become Carnegie Mellon University
 Nominated to serve as director of the National Science Foundation in 1971, resigning in 1972
 Oversaw the establishment of the worlds first Robotics Institute and founding of the School of Computer Science
 Established the Andrew computing network  making CMU the first university to use a local-area-network system of computing
Startup develops 3-D printer for consumer market
Pirate3D, a startup in 
Singapore, is developing an 
inexpensive 3-D printer for 
the consumer market that is 
scheduled to be sold starting in December. The printer 
will be available online and 
at certain retail outlets. It will 
be displayed at the Consumer 
Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January. The printer 
is available in both black and 
white and color, but not much 
detail is available yet on how 
it works.
The company also hopes 
to pro?t by creating ways for 
independent developers to 
sell software and designs for 
3-D printers. The company 
was able to raise $1.4 million 
on KickStarter in less than 
one month, which according 
to co-founder Roger Chang 
should last for the next year. 
The printers will sell for $700 
in stores and $500 online.
Source: The New York Times 
Antarctic ?sh reserve receives frigid reception
Negotiations held in Australia regarding the creation 
of a 500,000-square-mile marine reserve in the waters off  
Antarctica failed this week. 
The reserve was proposed by 
the United States and New 
Zealand, and was to be built 
in the Southern Ocean around 
Antarctica. Though the areas 
ecosystem helps sustain thousands of species, the construction of the reserve faced opposition by China, Ukraine, and 
Russia due to concern that it 
would cut off their ?sh stocks 
and undermine their ?shing 
industries. Aquatic life in Antarctic waters account for 10 
percent of the ?sh population, 
and a number of these scientists urge taking measures to 
protect them. China indicated 
that it may be open to a future 
agreement, while Russia and 
Ukraine still question justi?-
cation for the reserve.
Source: The New York Times
Students develop device to stop school shootings
A group of students from 
Benjamin Banneker Academic 
High School in Washington, 
D.C. have attempted to address the prevention of school  
shootings. The 10-student 
team, led by math teacher 
John Mahoney, developed 
DeadStop, an inexpensive, 
lightweight device that clasps 
onto the hinges of classroom 
doors to stop intruders from 
breaking into classrooms. 
Due to school safety regulations, schools cannot have 
doors which lock from the 
inside. DeadStop would be 
stored in the teachers desk, 
and would be clasped onto 
the door as soon as a warning 
of an armed intruder was issued. The group hopes to patent the device and have it cost 
no more than $15.
Source: Smithsonian
Compiled By
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Scientists aim to stop development of superbugs
According to a study conducted last month by the 
Centers for Disease Control, 
antibiotics continue to be 
overused and overprescribed. 
This has contributed to the 
development of superbugs. 
In fact, a recent epidemic 
at the National Institutes of 
Health took six months to 
control.  Despite this, pharmaceutical companies have 
scaled down research into 
the production of new infection-?ghting drugs due to 
the narrow pro?t margin. As 
a result, the Department of 
Health committed to provide 
the pharmaceutical company 
GlaxoSmithKline up to $200 
million over the next ?ve 
years for research.
Source: Smithsonian 
Robots becoming more human-like and autonomous
Recent scienti?c efforts 
aim to enable robots to begin 
collaborating with humans 
and operating without direct human control. Current 
goals in the ?eld of robotics 
include making robots more 
human shaped to enable 
them to more gracefully maneuver human environments, 
and developing algorithms to 
make robots more aware of 
their environments and less 
dependent on direct control.
Researchers at the Georgia 
Institute of Technology have 
developed a robot which can 
sense forces on its arm and 
ultimately may serve as an aid 
for physical therapy patients.
Source: The New York Times
Study shows video games improve various functions
According to a study conducted at Max Planck Institute for Human Development 
and Charit University Medicine St. Hedwig-Krankenhaus 
in Berlin, playing video games 
can enhance brain functions 
such as memory formation, 
strategic planning, spatial 
orientation, and ?ne motor 
skills. The study involved two 
groups: One played video 
games for 30 minutes a day 
for two months, and the control group did not play any 
games. An increase in brain 
matter  speci?cally in the 
right hippocampus, right prefrontal cortex and the cerebellum  was observed in those 
who played video games.
Source: Science Daily
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  November 4, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Karyn Michela, 
Satvika Neti, Mackenzie Nicholson, Gates 
Palissery, Syed Rahman, Taylor Rawley, Kevin 
Reichek, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Head injuries should be treated seriously
In a report released this week, 
the NFL concluded that high school 
students are twice as likely to suffer brain injuries as college students 
when playing football. Concussions 
are often treated as frequent occurrences, expected side effects of playing sports or engaging in physical activity. However, most students fail to 
realize that concussions are serious 
medical conditions that are treated 
far too lightly and can have signi?-
cant impacts on ones academic performance, not only in high school, 
but also in college.
According to Mayo Clinic, a concussion is a traumatic brain injury 
that can cause headaches, loss of 
concentration, and dif?culties with 
memory, judgment, and coordination. Concussions occur when the 
brain shifts within the skull. As 
documented by Medical News Today, 
effects from concussions can last up 
to decades after the incident if the 
injury is severe enough.
This information is cause for concern, as many concussions happen to 
high school students whose brains 
are still developing. Silive.com reported that approximately 502,000 
people between the ages of 8 and 19 
were admitted to emergency rooms 
with concussions between 2001 and 
2005, and half of these were attributed to sports. More shockingly, the 
American College of Sports Medicine documents 300,000 sportsand recreation-related concussions 
in the U.S. each year, but estimates 
that this number may be seven times 
greater in reality, as many concussions are never reported.
The brain trauma associated with 
concussions can have serious implications, especially for those with 
developing brains. Many people 
who have concussions say that their 
cognitive performance suffers. The 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention documented a case in which 
a student reported that it actually 
hurt to think after a concussion. 
These injuries have negative impacts 
on learning and school performance, 
which can have a long-term impact 
on students success and well-being. 
Effects of concussions can last weeks 
after symptoms disappear, and mental exertion can worsen these effects, 
according to The Wall Street Journal. 
For high school and college students 
who suffer concussions, the injury 
can mean less-than-optimal academic performance in the weeks following the injury.
People need to be more aware 
of the effects of concussions and 
consider taking further steps to protect athletes from injuries that can 
negatively impact their academic 
futures. Generally, students who suffer concussions should not mentally 
exert themselves too much in the 
weeks following their injury. They 
must consider that the effects may 
last long after the initial injury and 
should not attempt to resume their 
normal strenuous academic schedules until they have given the brain 
ample time to recover.
Electronic cigarettes need to be regulated
Two weeks ago, Carnegie Mellons Student Senate hosted its third 
annual Student Senate week. Free 
cupcakes, drawstring bags, water 
bottles, and sunglasses were all part 
of the festivities and were appreciated by the student body. However, 
Student Senate could have more effectively directed attention to their 
causes. The free gifts were enjoyed, 
but there was a lack of connection 
between the Student Senates presence on campus this week and its issues and causes.
This years Student Senate week 
came in the wake of a particularly 
successful week last year, when the 
event was highly advertised and 
the student body engaged with its 
Senate representatives. Last years 
week was focused on what Student 
Senate could do for the students 
that it represents. College representatives sent emails to the students 
within their colleges, introducing 
themselves and inviting students 
to provide input on Student Senate 
initiatives. The emails showed the 
Student Senates strong attempts to 
connect with students. This year, no 
such emails were sent out, and such 
efforts havent been easily visible.
The Tartan appreciates the giveaways that Student Senate provided 
this year  what college student 
doesnt like cookies and cider?  but 
the outreach provided last year was 
sorely missed this year. While Student Senate representatives talked 
to students at the tables, they did not 
seem to promote their initiatives as 
well as last years Senators.
Though free giveaways are a great 
way to increase visibility of any organization on campus, they can also 
be coordinated with the goals and 
interests of that organization more 
effectively. Student Senate promotes 
a wide variety of talks that are both 
interesting and relevant to campus 
life. The Tartan would have liked to 
see Student Senate consistently promote its relevant talks during these 
giveaways, particularly their weekly 
Student Senate meetings, which are 
open to the student body.
If Student Senate wants to increase its visibility and presence on 
campus, it needs to pair the attention-grabbing giveaways with promotions of their other campus initiatives. Hopefully, Student Senate 
week will use and build upon 2012s 
Student Senate week as a model 
for planning future Student Senate 
weeks.
Little outreach during Student Senate week
Boycott of Sochi games will not develop diversity
JUSTIN YAN 
Russian President Vladimir Putin 
stated last Tuesday that LGBT athletes would be welcome to compete 
at the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics. 
This announcement came after Putin passed a law in Russia that prohibits people from distributing information to minors that acknowledges 
same-sex relationships. Foreigners 
are held accountable under this law 
and are subject to ?nes, detainment, 
or deportation. Many U.S. citizens 
called to boycott the Olympics after 
the law passed. While Putin made 
a quick turnaround by stating that 
LGBT foreigners and athletes would 
not be made to feel uneasy, many 
people are still calling for boycotts.
The reasons behind boycotting 
are admirable and agreeable, but 
boycotts are ultimately not useful 
and ?awed in logic. The Olympic 
Games, or any international sporting events, are based around cooperation and diversity. To boycott  
even if it is because the host country 
does not champion these two ideals 
 would be to take away the cooperation and diversity promoted 
during the games. However, it is 
still crucial to question why Russia 
has the stage for one of the worlds 
most important sporting events. 
The Olympic spirit is about equality. 
Diversity  whether it is based on 
race, sexuality, or gender  should 
not be frowned upon, but embraced.
Picking a country like Russia 
makes no sense in light of the Olympic spirit. One of Russias most celebrated athletes, twice gold-medal 
pole vaulter Yelena Isinbayeva, said 
in August about Putins anti-gay law: 
If we allow to promote and do all 
this stuff on the street, we are very 
afraid about our nation because we 
consider ourselves like normal, standard people. She later retracted her 
comments, saying that her poor English was responsible for the statement, according to The Guardian. 
Moreover, FIFA has given Russia 
the chance to host the World Cup. 
Just a week ago, during a match 
against an English soccer team, 
CSKA Moscow, a Russian soccer 
club, was penalized by the Union 
of European Football Associations 
 the European soccer governingbody  because fans hurtled racial 
slurs at a black player on the ?eld, 
according to The New York Times. 
Russia has a patchy equal rights 
record when it comes to race and 
sexuality, yet boycotting the games 
in Russia would do nothing to promote equality or diversity in the face 
of this rocky record.
Russias citizens are actually very 
liberal  more liberal than the average American gives them credit 
for. They support abortion based on 
the womans choice and, according 
to The New Republic, premarital sex 
and single parenthood are common, 
very much like Western European 
secular cultures, even though most 
of the population still identi?es as 
Russian Orthodox. Its unique religious identity is where Russia differs from the rest of Europe and 
where the stigma against gays originates from. Seventy-four percent of 
Russians believe that homosexuality 
is some sort of abnormality. This is 
another crucial reason why boycotting wont work. Its not the Russian 
government that is against homosexuality, but Russian popular opinion, as Isinbayeva demonstrated.
A boycott is an act of de?ance 
against the government making a 
bad decision. The Russian peoples 
unique geography, culture, and history has led to an interesting mix 
of European and Asian beliefs, as 
well as individual ones. A boycott 
would almost be hypocritical. Gay 
athletes are barely given a chance to 
succeed  as evidenced by the very 
few professional athletes who have 
come out  in the United States 
and Western Europe. A boycott will 
not persuade the people of Russia to 
strive for equality, as they will only 
see Americans as the enemy, and unworthy of competition.
A boycott will also harm American athletes who have prepared 
their entire lives to ski, shoot, and 
jump on the largest stage possible. 
They have prepared for their moment of glory. To boycott would be 
to take away that potential glory. 
Boycotting will show Russians nothing, only that Americans seem unable to compete. By competing in 
Russia, Americans will show Russian citizens that diversity  in any 
form  is celebrated.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Electronic cigarettes entered the 
market almost 10 years ago, and 
between 2008 and 2012, sales increased from 50,000 to 3.5 million, 
according to USA Today. 
Now, the multi?avored vapor is 
?nally catching regulators attentions: Doctors of the Pennsylvania 
Medical Society believe that e-cigarettes should have the same regulations as tobacco products, despite 
e-cigarettes being advertised as safe 
and socially conscious alternatives to 
cigarettes.
People should know more about 
e-cigarettes before they decide how 
they should be regulated, but unfortunately, theyre already a ?xture in 
the market. Pennsylvania physicians 
are right, at least for now: While analysts gather statistics on the effects 
of e-cigarettes and their secondhand 
vapors, e-cigarettes that contain 
nicotine should be regulated just 
like their tobacco-?avored counterparts. E-cigarettes seem like an easy 
?x to the problem of secondhand 
smoke, but they should be treated 
with caution.
With e-cigarettes, there is no secondhand smoke, but more importantly, they don not use any tobacco. 
As such, the risk for developing cancer is drastically lower. However, 
a recent study from Frances National Consumer Institute suggested 
that e-cigarettes are potentially 
carcinogenic. This study reveals an 
immediate need for more studies 
on the effects of e-cigarettes. Little 
research has been conducted on ecigarettes, and no one seems to know 
much about what happens when a 
person breathes the vapor for even a 
short period of time.
The FDA currently treats e-cigarettes as if they have tobacco, which 
makes sense  nicotine is just as 
addictive without the tobacco. However, federal law doesnt bar sale to 
minors, although certain states prohibit selling e-cigarettes to minors. 
Currently, Pennsylvania is not one of 
them   but it should be.
The purpose of e-cigarettes is to 
deliver nicotine to the body. Unfortunately, they are still largely unregulated, and this lack of regulation 
could pose a big problem as their 
popularity increases. We need to 
know more about their effects soon 
so that proper regulations can be put 
in place.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jonathan Leung
Colette Tano
Ethics, History, and Public Policy
Senior
Its kind of sketchy.
Emily Harwitz
Chemistry
Sophomore
I think its fun.
Christopher Wang
Biology
Sophomore
I think its great, but it doesnt 
really apply to me.
Naman Seth
ECE, EPP
Junior
I think its a good experience, 
but the beard gets annoying.
Charlton Chang
Economics
Sophomore
I do it with my friends every year 
because its funny.
November 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan is contemplating the aesthetics of facial hair this week. So we asked,
How do you feel about No Shave November?
Surveillance shows need 
for reform within NSA
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
Because of the controversy surrounding the National Security 
Agency (NSA), it came as no surprise when Edward Snowden leaked 
documents revealing that the United 
States has been spying on 35 world 
leaders, many of which are close 
American allies.
Last week, the German tabloid 
Bild am Sonntag revealed that President Barack Obama had been informed that the NSA was spying on 
German chancellor Angela Merkel 
and allowed it to continue. However, due to the nature and nearly unlimited power of this organization, I 
?nd it unlikely that Obama was told.
Critics of Obama like to believe 
that he was all knowing on the matter, but he most likely had no idea 
that this surveillance was occurring, 
as government secrecy and division 
have been going on for years.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Central Intelligence 
Agency (CIA), and other federal organizations have failed to share information and work together in the 
past. In fact, Attorney General John 
Ashcroft identi?ed this failure to 
share information as the reason that 
the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001 were 
carried out so easily. Khalid Muhammad Abdallah al-Mihdhar, one 
of the Sept. 11 hijackers, was placed 
on the CIA watchlist in August 2001, 
but the FBI could not work on his 
case. Ashcroft quoted an FBI agent 
who complained in an email about 
the FBIs inability to take action, 
Whatever has happened to this, 
someday somebody will die.
However, Obama isnt necessarily innocent in the matter of the 
NSA spying. He voted as a Senator 
in 2008 to support the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 2008 to 
expand the organizations wiretapping abilities. Congress and Obama 
might not have known the extent 
at which the NSA was spying on 
citizens, but they put more power in 
its hands. They essentially gave the 
NSA the power to curtail the Constitution and nearly in?nite ability to 
conduct surveillance.
This problem is occurring in 
many of our federal security agencies. Due to the threat of terrorism, 
the U.S. has continued to place more 
power into the hands of organizations like the NSA, while not requiring them to report what they are 
doing or follow traditional Constitutional procedures. In the process 
of tracking U.S. enemies through 
NSA surveillance, the government 
creates more enemies by spying on 
countries that had no prior issue 
with the U.S.
President George W. Bush and 
Obama have continued to pass 
national security bills in hopes of 
protecting citizens from terrorist 
attacks. 
However, with every bill, there is 
a major tradeoff  liberty. Americans are now giving away their hardearned rights for the false notion 
that they are somehow safer.
By giving unwarranted powers 
to the NSA and other organizations, 
the U.S. is creating more enemies 
than it is defeating. 
In fact, the NSA has done very little in the way of preventing terrorist 
attacks. The NSA Chief Army General Keith Alexander even admitted 
at an oversight hearing in early October that only one or two terrorist 
plots have been foiled through the 
wiretapping program, according to 
cso.com.
The NSA has enraged many nations that are considered American 
allies, and some are now planning 
to remove U.S. in?uence over the 
Internet. Brazilian President Dilma 
Rousseff is already making plans to 
move Internet servers of major services to Brazil and construct underwater ?ber optic cables that curtail 
the U.S. and run directly to Europe, 
according to the Associated Press.
As the U.S. spies on foreign leaders, many of them are going to take 
efforts like Brazil to remove U.S. 
power from the Internet and, in 
turn, reduce the U.S. governments 
ability to conduct surveillance. In 
order to ensure the liberties and protection of citizens while surveillance 
occurs, the NSA must only track 
information on people who are direct threats and remain transparent 
enough that the President knows 
when a major world leader is being 
tracked. 
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Texas abortion law restricts rights
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Junior Staffwriter
It has been a riveting week with a 
devastating end for Texan pro-choice 
advocates against one of the most restrictive anti-abortion bills currently 
in America, HB 12. The bill, which 
is set to close at least one-third of 
Texass abortion clinics immediately, 
has had an intensely controversial 
history over the past several months.
In June, state Sen. Wendy Davis 
(D-Texas) successfully ?libustered 
the bill and the fraudulent suppression tactics of the Republican state 
legislature, but Governor Rick Perry 
(R-Texas)  a notorious reproductive rights opponent  called a special session of the state Senate to 
push the bill through. 
This Monday, District Judge Lee 
Yeakel struck down the most destructive provision of the law, which 
requires Texas abortion clinics to obtain admitting privileges at a nearby 
hospital, supposedly to better assure 
the safety of abortion procedures. In 
a victory for Planned Parenthood, 
Yeakel ruled that such a provision 
has no rational basis or medical purpose, and that the provision was unconstitutional because it placed an 
unnecessary restriction on women 
seeking an abortion.
However, the court decision was 
overturned on Thursday by the conservative 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. The court countered that the 
provision requiring admitting privileges was constitutionally valid and 
that the incidental effect of making 
it more dif?cult or more expensive 
to procure an abortion cannot be 
enough to invalidate a bill that otherwise serves a legitimate purpose.
The hollowness in the appeals 
courts excuse to validate an arguably unconstitutional and surely unjust bill should be self-evident. The 
legitimate purpose this bill supposedly serves is hazy, and Perry, speaking during Thursdays ruling, seems 
con?dent that its true purpose is to 
protect a culture of life in Texas.
Additionally, the claim that the 
law protects Texas womens health 
and safety is ignorant to the point 
of ridiculousness. Republican politicians dictating the private reproductive decisions of women continually 
fail to realize that cutting off access 
to abortion clinics will not decrease 
demand for abortions. Instead of 
stopping abortions from occurring, 
anti-abortion laws force women to 
improvise, travel further, and pay extra for procedures that are ultimately 
more risky than any performed in a 
licensed clinic.
No less important, many clinics 
targeted by the Texas bill and similar anti-abortion laws provide abortion with many other services vital 
to womens health. Planned Parenthood, for example, offers birth control, sexually transmitted infection 
and HIV testing, pap smears, and 
breast cancer screenings. When the 
Texas bill goes into effect, women 
will not only lose simple and safe access to abortions, but also access to a 
wide range of other crucial services 
that may not be available through 
primary doctors or local hospitals. 
This bill hardly sounds like one designed with the best interests of Texan women in mind.
More likely, this bill is a predictable attempt by conservative Republicans to hoard control over the 
reproductive and sexual rights of 
women. 
By staying angry and continuing to ?ght these misogynistic laws 
wherever they inevitably arise nationwide, we can prove that the ability of a woman to do with her body 
as she so chooses cant be legislated.
NaNoWriMo is not just for writers
CHLOE THOMPSON 
November is National Novel Writing Month, more commonly known 
as NaNoWriMo. Writers sign up 
during October to participate in the 
entirely friendly competition, which 
lasts from Nov. 120. Participants 
write as much as they can every day 
for the entire month, and if the novel 
ends up being over 50,000 words, 
they can enter to win prizes within 
the NaNoWriMo community.
NaNoWriMo has bene?ts for both 
people who love to write and people 
who feel they have no writing skills 
whatsoever, although the bene?ts 
for writers are a little more obvious 
than those for the latter group. 
NaNoWriMo offers writers of 
all ages from around the world the 
opportunity to connect with other 
writers and published authors, trade 
ideas, and support each other. It 
creates a community-based culture 
around a hobby that can be isolating 
and lonely.
Even beyond offering support and 
inspiration, NaNoWriMo can be really fun, even if you dont participate 
in the traditional way. Personally, I 
plan to use NaNoWriMo as a way to 
remind myself to write every day, but 
not to race at a breakneck speed to a 
speci?c character count. The competition is a fun method for expressing 
creative energies in a personal way.
The bene?ts for non-writers are 
a little more opaque, and lie not so 
much in the writing itself, but more 
in the development of the creative 
process. No experience is required to 
sign up for NaNoWriMo. Of course, 
the prospect of throwing oneself into 
writing with such force can be intimidating for people who have not written much in the past, but NaNoWriMo encourages participants to 
embrace their mistakes, whether 
those participants have been writing 
for 20 years or two days. 
Writers doing the traditional 
challenge have to produce around 
1,666 words every day, which is 
around ?ve-and-a-half pages, to get 
to 50,000 words in a months time. 
That kind of cramming does not 
produce Americas next great novel, 
and the people who run NaNoWriMo 
know that. Producing sub-par work 
is acceptable in this competition, 
because everyone does it, and thats 
how they learn. People who never 
considered themselves writers can 
participate just as effectively as anyone else.
Even though NaNoWriMo has its 
charms, some people simply dont 
like to write, but that doesnt mean 
that they shouldnt expend their 
creative energies. Creativity has 
the potential to reduce stress, bolster self-con?dence, and stimulate 
brain health, although the cultural 
de?nition of creativity tends toward 
clearly artistic activities like writing, 
drawing, or photography. People 
also tend to think that creativity is 
something that some people have, 
and others just dont. Being creative 
is not a personality trait; it is another 
word for human expression. Coming 
up with a scienti?c experiment and 
testing it can require the same creative energies as painting a picture.
So whether youre writing a novel 
or a computer program, try to stretch 
your creative muscles this November.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Rachel Cohen/Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 4, 2013
Deutsche Bankdb.com/careers
Is there space for creative thinkers in investment banking?
Agile minds think theres space for no one else
Analyst Internship Presentation
Youd be surprised by how creative you need to be at Deutsche Bank.  
Because the needs of our clients are continually evolving, we constantly have 
to innovate  with new product ideas, new investment strategies and new 
technologies. As far as were concerned, the only way we can keep one step 
ahead of the competition is by challenging convention. And if you share this 
mindset, there could be an equally exceptional future for you here.
We have two internship presentations available for graduates with talent  
and ambition.
Global Operations & Technology
Date: Wednesday, November 13th, 2013
Time: 6:00pm
Venue: Scaife Hall 214
Asset & Wealth Management and Markets
Date: Thursday, November 14th, 2013
Time: 7:00pm
Venue: Scaife Hall 125
Discover something diferent at db.com/careers/us
MATTHEW SEIFU
Junior Staffwriter
On a chilly afternoon, the 
Carnegie Mellon football team 
lost its ?rst conference game 
against Washington University 
in St. Louis last Saturday in 
Gesling Stadium.
Before the game, head 
coach Rich Lackner said that 
the Bears were a very balanced team. I cant point to 
any weaknesses on Wash. U.s 
team, he said.
In a low-scoring affair 
in which the Tartans found 
themselves leading for the majority of the game, the Bears 
managed to sneak away with 
a 97 victory with a long ?eld 
goal in the waning seconds of 
the game.
After a slow start and ?nding themselves down 60 
early in the ?rst quarter, the 
Tartans drove 72 yards down 
the ?eld in 11 plays to get on 
the scoreboard in the second 
quarter. Senior quarterback 
Rob Kalkstein found senior 
tight end Bryce Pardoe for a 
7-yard touchdown pass for the 
Tartans.
The drive was spearheaded 
by a strong running game featuring senior fullback Zachary Erra-Hernandez, whose 
27-yard scamper put the Tartans in a good ?eld position 
to score on a touchdown a few 
plays later. After a successful extra point by sophomore 
kicker Connor Young, Carnegie Mellon took a 76 lead, 
and the momentum began to 
swing in their favor.
The game turned into a 
more defensive battle, however, as both teams exchanged 
punts until the halftime whistle. In the third quarter, an 
over-thrown ball by Washington quarterback Eric Daginella 
found itself in the hands of 
senior cornerback Liam McGrath for an interception, giving Carnegie Mellon the ball at 
its own 44-yard line.
Both teams committed 
costly turnovers, with the 
Bears committing four and the 
Tartans three.
Sophomore cornerback 
Vince Demarchi grabbed another interception of his own 
later in the third quarter; 
however, the Tartans were unable to convert the turnover 
into points.
Early in the fourth quarter, 
a fumble by sophomore running back Troy Witt on a punt 
return gave the Bears threatening ?eld position at the 
Carnegie Mellon 17-yard line. 
Carnegie Mellons defense 
responded on the third down 
of Washingtons ensuing possession. Junior linebacker 
Alexander DAngelo sacked 
Daginella and forced a fumble 
that was recovered by senior 
lineman Ryan Jok to prevent 
any further damage.
Each team kept a strong defensive presence for the rest of 
the game, and it seemed that 
the Tartans would walk away 
with a win.
With less than ?ve minutes 
in the game, the Bears began a strong drive beginning 
at their 29-yard line. After a 
costly third-down penalty on 
DAngelo extended their possession, the Bears found themselves at Carnegie Mellons 
24-yard line with just over a 
minute remaining.
Instead of running the 
clock out, Washington elected 
to pass. The Tartans forced another turnover, as sophomore 
safety Malcolm Guya forced a 
fumble which was recovered 
by senior linebacker Akwasi 
Brefo.
With only 71 seconds left 
in the game, the Tartans needed to convert only one ?rst 
down to seal the victory. But 
three Bears timeouts and a 
strong defense forced the Tartans to punt with 50 seconds 
remaining.
This time, Washington 
didnt commit a turnover and 
methodically marched to the 
Carnegie Mellon 28-yard line 
with 15 seconds left.
Bears kicker Alex Hallwachs, who earlier missed a 
point-after attempt, redeemed 
himself with a 45-yard ?eld 
goal to crush a valiant effort 
from the Tartans.
Despite the undesired result, the Tartans had many 
positives to take away and 
carry to the remaining games. 
Guys just came out 
focused and ready to play a 
good football game. Our intensity level was our strongest 
attribute, Brefo said.
After dropping to 35 for 
the season, the team next 
plays an away game at the 
University of Chicago on Saturday at 1 p.m. The last home 
game of the season is at 6 p.m. 
on Saturday, Nov. 16, which is 
also Senior Day. 
Football loses ?rst conference game in a heartbreaker
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Sophomore running back Troy Witt (left) takes a handoff from senior quarterback Rob Kalkstein, who completed 14 passes on 22 attempts for 85 yards. Kalkstein was well protected, as his offensive line (right) allowed no sacks. 

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Cross country teams suffer loss in UAA Championships
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
After third-place ?nishes in 
the University Athletic Association (UAA) Championships 
last year and a determined 
effort in the Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational four weeks ago, 
the mens and womens cross 
country teams looked poised 
to post impressive results in 
Saturdays UAA Championships.
But on a chilly Saturday 
afternoon, both teams failed 
to carry the momentum from 
their successes in the Invitational that featured the same 
course in Schenley Park.
The mens team ?nished 
fourth, while the womens 
team took eighth place. Washington University in St. Louis, 
the No. 2 team in the nation, 
?nished ?rst in the mens 
side, while the No. 9 University of Chicago took ?rst in the 
womens side.
Carnegie Mellons only 
top 10 ?nish was senior Josh 
Newby, who ?nished the the 
mens 8k course with a time of 
25:44.3.
We had some good individual performances, but as 
a team we didnt click, head 
coach Dario Donatelli said. 
At our conference level, with 
so many nationally ranked 
teams, you better be on, and 
we werent on as a team.
Sophomore Rekha Schnepf 
?nished ?rst in the womens 
6k race at 27th place overall with a time of 23:17.3, 
and junior Erin Kiekhaefer, 
the teams usual ?rst-place 
?nisher, came in at 32nd overall with a time of  23:27.1.
The University of Chicago 
had six runners ?nish within 
the top 20, and New York University, ranked No. 8 in the 
country and the second-place 
team in the Championships, 
had three runners ?nish in the 
top eight.
I dont think it was the 
best that we could have done, 
Schnepf said.
The race was held on a cool 
fall day with strong gusts, so 
the weather could have been 
a factor in the teams performances. However, Schnepf 
dismissed that possibility.
Weve run some other 
races that were pretty chilly, 
and we were ?ne. I think its 
just an accumulation from the 
season, and we were all more 
nervous, Schnepf said.
Rounding out the rest of 
the womens top ?ve ?nishers 
were senior Catherine 
Paquette in 34th place. Firstyear Emily Joyce, and sophomore Priya Patel ?nished 
together in 38th and 39th 
place.
On the mens side, while 
Newby led the charge, junior 
George Degen ?nished 13 seconds later in 15th place overall with a time of 25:57.5.
The hills are tough on the 
last two miles ... but I think 
we all ?nished pretty well, 
Newby said.
Senior Ken Murphy ?nished third on the team and in 
30th place overall with a time 
of 26:34.2, and senior Brendan OHara and sophomore 
Marc-Daniel Julien took 35th 
and 36th place.
The teams top ?ve ?nishers, however, did not come 
close to Washington University in St. Louis, which had four 
runners ?nish within the top 
six. No. 7 New York University, 
?nishing second, had three 
runners ?nish before Newby.
We knew Wash. U. was 
going to be good. We knew 
NYU was going to be good. 
Hey, maybe we got a little 
wake-up call for our Regionals, Donatelli said.
Both teams will have two 
weeks to prepare for their 
next challenge. They travel to 
Muhlenberg College on Nov. 
16 for the NCAA Regionals, 
their penultimate meet of the 
season. Their ?nal meet is the 
NCAA Championships on Nov. 
23 at Hanover College.
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Senior Josh Newby (top) was the only Carnegie Mellon runner to ?nish in the top 10. Sophomore Rekha Schnepf (bottom left) ?nished ?rst on the 
womens side, and junior Erin Kiekhaefer (bottom right) was the womens second place ?nisher. 

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 4, 2013
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The start of the NBA season 
got lost between the commotion of the World Series and 
the overwhelming attentiongrabber that is the NFL.
With an off-season that saw 
more marquee players switching teams than any in recent 
memory, the NBA landscape 
is entirely different from the 
one last June when the Miami 
Heat won its second straight 
NBA title.
Most NBA teams have separated themselves into two categories for this upcoming season: Those who will tank in an 
attempt to get a high draft pick 
in next years draft and those 
who can win it all. 
The 2014 draft class has 
long been touted as one of the 
best since the 2003 class produced All-Stars LeBron James, 
Dwyane Wade, Chris Bosh, 
and Carmelo Anthony. Led by 
Canadian standout Andrew 
Wiggins, many teams see the 
next draft class as an opportunity to draft one of the gamechanging talents necessary to 
win a title.
Many teams, such as the 
Philadelphia 76ers and Boston 
Celtics, have traded many of 
their top players for draft picks 
and cap space. 
The demarcation between 
the tankers and the winners 
has actually caused many to 
question the integrity of a 
sport that condones these sort 
of ?re sale seasons.
Basketball has dealt with 
these issues before when 
the Houston Rockets were 
accused of intentionally losing to get a better pick in the 
1984 draft. To discourage 
teams from purposefully losing, the NBA implemented a 
weighted lottery to determine 
the top three picks. The teams 
with the worst records had the 
highest chances of getting the 
number one overall pick.
The Miami Heat were actually one of the few contenders that stood pat during the 
off-season, being hamstrung 
by the massive contracts of 
James, Bosh, and Wade. Their 
one major acquisition was 
signing former ?rst overall 
draft pick Greg Oden. Oden 
has suffered knee problems 
since entering the league and 
hasnt played since the 2009
10 season, but Miami hopes he 
can stay healthy and provide 
the team with the large inside 
presence it has been missing.
The Celtics, who just last 
season were playing the Heat 
for a chance to win a trip to 
the ?nals, underwent the largest dismantling effort. With 
former Big Three member Ray 
Allen going to the Heat the 
previous season, Boston blew 
up the rest of its nucleus that 
won a title in 2008 and earned 
a ?nals trip in 2010. 
All-Star forwards Kevin 
Garnett and Paul Pierce were 
traded to the Brooklyn Nets 
as part of a massive blockbuster trade that unloaded 
some of the Nets overpriced 
bench players onto the Celtics 
along with ?rst-round picks in 
2014, 2016, and 2018. Coach 
Doc Rivers was also released 
from his contract and allowed 
to sign with the Los Angeles 
Clippers, leaving young point 
guard Rajon Rondo as the last 
beacon from the Celtics title 
days. Boston replaced Rivers 
with former Butler University 
coach Brad Stevens.
The other major domino 
in free agency was former Orlando Magic and Los Angeles 
Laker center Dwight Howard. 
After a nearly two-year saga 
with Howard trying to make 
up his mind where he wanted 
to play, Howard ?nally chose 
to sign a long-term deal with 
the Houston Rockets, joining 
rising star James Harden and 
former New York Knicks sensation Jeremy Lin. 
The Atlanta Hawks, Dallas 
Mavericks, Golden State Warriors, and the Lakers were all 
holding out hope that they 
would land Howard and had 
to quickly formulate a Plan B.
The Hawks lost their own 
major free agent, forward 
Josh Smith, to the Detroit Pistons and only had restricted 
free agent Jeff Teague left to 
try and build a team around, 
missing out on most of the 
better free agents.
After winning the 2011 
title, the Mavericks gutted 
their roster, letting their defensive anchor Tyson Chandler walk in free agency as 
they attempted to clear up 
cap space to land a bigger 
free agent. They hoped to sign 
point guards Deron Williams 
or Chris Paul as well as Howard, but all players signed elsewhere. During the offseason, 
the Mavericks were left to sign 
two high-level guards in Jos 
Caldern and Monta Ellis to 
try and get longtime All-Star 
Dirk Nowitzki another championship ring.
The Golden State Warriors, 
who surprised everyone by 
taking the San Antonio Spurs 
to six games in the Western 
Conference Semi?nals, signed 
former Denver Nuggets forward Andre Iguodala to ?rm 
up their defense. At the same 
time, the Warriors were unable to re-sign former backup 
point guard Jarrett Jack and 
forward Carl Landry, key players from last years bench.
The perennial powerhouse 
Lakers suffered the largest 
blow by losing Howard. While 
he was trouble in the locker 
room, he represented the future franchise players with 
Kobe Bryant on the decline recovering from a torn Achilles 
and playing in his 18th season. 
They are ?nally giving up their 
position at the top of the Western Conference and can no 
longer lay claim to being the 
best team in their home arena, 
with the Staples Center being 
shared with the signi?cantly 
better Clippers.
This NBA season will be 
unusual to watch, to say the 
least. Expect many blowouts 
as the difference between the 
intentional winners and losers 
has led to a massive talent gap. 
What may ultimately decide 
whos still playing in June, 
however, will be how well 
each contender integrates its 
new acquisitions and how well 
these acquisitions will mesh 
into each team.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
CMU volleyball impresses in penultimate home game
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Junior Staffwriter
In its penultimate game 
before the University Athletic 
Association (UAA) championships, the Carnegie Mellon 
womens volleyball team built 
impressive momentum with a 
dominating win over Mount 
Aloysius College.
The Tartans won the ?rst 
seven points and never relinquished their lead once they 
scored. In a great team effort, 
the Tartans took the Wednesday game in straight sets 259, 
2510, and 258.
On the second point of the 
game, ?rst-year defensive specialist Molly Higgins made a 
save in a play that ended up 
being Mount Aloysiuss last 
chance to tie the score. 
With four aces and 
mistake-free play including 
eight digs, Higgins stood out 
among many strong performances from the Carnegie 
Mellon side.
She credited her success to 
the rest of the team. As a defensive player, a lot of my play 
is supported by other players 
doing their jobs ?rst, she said. 
The block was really 
strong throughout the match, 
making it easy to read the opposing teams offense. The setter was also reliable in getting 
to the ball every time I got a 
dig, making it possible for the 
point to continue, she said.
Team captain and junior Ali 
Celentano echoed Higginss 
sentiments about the teams 
strong performance. 
It was really good to see 
everyone on the team step 
up. We played at the level we 
wanted to and werent slowed 
down by what was on the 
other side of the court, Celentano said.
She expressed optimism for 
the rest of the season, saying, 
Focusing on our side of the 
court has been the goal for us 
this season, and I think how 
well we did today could very 
well translate into our upcoming matches at [the UAA 
Championships].
The teams net play was 
extremely impressive. With 
a 59 percent kill percentage, 
the whole team was locked 
in at the net. Mount Aloysius 
also ?nished the game with 
zero blocks, showing just how 
dominant Carnegie Mellons 
attack was.
First-year opposite hitter 
Kristen Flint and senior outside hitter Senna Parsa had 
10 kills each, while ?rst-year 
middle blocker Jackie Gibbons 
contributed both offensively 
and defensively with six kills 
and four blocks.
The game itself never felt 
close. In addition to scoring 
the ?rst seven points of the 
game, the Tartans scored nine 
of the ?rst 13 points in the second set, and 11 of the ?nal 12 
points of the game. 
Each set was decided by at 
least 15 points, and the ?nal 
score did not do justice to how 
strong a team performance 
the Tartans put on.
The Tartans kept their momentum going on Saturday, 
when they defeated Allegheny 
College in three sets. The two 
wins from last week improved 
their record to 238 for the 
season.
The teams next and ?nal 
challenge of the season is the 
UAA Championships held 
at Brandeis University this 
Friday.
Soccer teams have mixed results during weekend trip
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
Both Carnegie Mellons 
mens and womens soccer 
teams continued competitive conference play over the 
weekend.
On Friday, both teams 
traveled to Case Western Reserve University and came 
away with victories. The 
mens team won 42, and the 
womens side won 10.
After their victories, the 
teams traveled to the University of Rochester for a Sunday 
clash. The mens team drew 
00, and the womens side 
lost 23 in double overtime.
Of course, we would have 
liked to have gotten two wins, 
senior defender Ben Bryant 
said. But were happy getting 
four points. It de?nitely beats 
one win and one loss.
Though the mens Case 
Western game ended with 
a lopsided score, the game 
was much closer. The Tartans 
trailed 12 at halftime after 
all three goals were scored 
within the last two minutes of 
the ?rst half.
The Tartans charged back 
in the second half. Sophomore mid?elder Connor 
Webb scored two minutes 
into the second half off of a 
free kick by senior defender 
Cole Christensen. Senior forward Max Tassano headed in 
a goal in the 51st minute for 
the clincher.
Against the No. 14 University of Rochester, the Tartans played a tough, physical 
game. The Tartans received 
four yellow cards, while Rochester received three.
The Rochester game 
showed that our defense can 
get organized, and we can 
sustain a lot of pressure from 
good teams, Bryant said.
Facing 19 shots, senior 
goalie Christopher Madden 
made six saves.
[Madden] came up big, 
with big-time saves, Bryant 
said.
Carnegie Mellons womens squad also started off the 
weekend road trip with a win 
against Case Western, with 
senior forward Alex Venegass 
?rst-half goal holding up as 
the only score of the game.
Were happy with the win 
on Friday, but were still disappointed with [Sundays] 
result, said graduate student 
goalkeeper Anna Albi.
In Rochester, the womens 
squad started strong. Sophomore mid?elder Carson 
Quiros headed in a goal off 
a corner kick in the seventh 
minute.
After Rochester equalized in the 18th minute, the 
Tartans responded. Junior 
mid?elder Jordyn Greenberg 
headed in the Tartans second 
goal for a 21 lead.
Rochester attempted only 
two corner kicks in the game, 
but made one of them count. 
With less than a minute in 
the ?rst half, Rochesters Kim 
Stagg scored off of their ?rst 
corner in the game.
The game remained tied 
at two until double overtime, 
when Rochesters Jessica 
Smith scored the decisive goal 
in the 107th minute.
We were de?nitely the 
more dangerous team today, 
but we were just unlucky, 
Albi said.
Both teams head on the 
road for their last regular 
season game this Saturday 
against Emory University.
Jason Chen/Staff Photographer
Seniors Rachel Miller (left) and Olivia Mora (right) each played two sets against Mount Aloysius College and ?nished the game with three kills each. 
The Wednesday win against Mount Aloysius and Saturdays victory against Allegheny College improved the teams record to 238. 
Off-season shakeups make for an intriguing NBA season
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Soccer
Univ.Conf.WLT
Rochester4111222
CMU4111122
Emory4111151
Chicago330952
Wash. U.222943
Brandeis2311341
CWRU141664
NYU051673
Football
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U1062
CWRU1043
Chicago0153
CMU0135
Volleyball
Univ.Conf.WL
Wash. U61255
Chicago612310
Emory52283
NYU43255
CMU43238
CWRU251515
Brandeis161022
Rochester07825
Womens Soccer
Univ.ConfWLT
Wash. U.6001610
Emory5101331
Chicago3121133
CMU321932
Brandeis132962
Rochester022664
NYU042773
CWRU051891
Upcoming Schedule
Mens Soccer
Nov. 9
Carnegie Mellon at Emory 
University, 11 a.m.
Womens Soccer
Nov. 9
Carnegie Mellon at Emory 
University, 1:30 p.m.
Football
Nov. 3
Carnegie Mellon at University of Chicago, 1 p.m.
Volleyball
Nov. 8
UAA Championships, 
Brandeis University.
Cross Country 
Nov. 16
NCAA Regionals, Muhlenberg College, 12 p.m.
Swimming/Diving 
Nov. 9
Carnegie Mellon vs. Grove 
City College & University of 
Rochester, Grove City College, 
1 p.m.
Womens Basketball
Nov. 15 
Geneva College at 
Carnegie Mellon, 6 p.m.
Mens Basketball
Nov. 18 
Geneva College at 
Carnegie Mellon, 7:30 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Cold weather fashion
Keep warm in style  B8
11.04.13 Volume 108, Issue 10

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Its weird but this weeks theme for comics 
turned out to be time.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents two action movies this 
weekend in McConomy Auditorium.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser 
COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Sara Remi Fields
8
3457
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about capitalizing 
on nostalgia and tracking down your Romeo.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Alpenglow
The Vermont-based indie pop group performs 
to a small crowd of Carnegie Mellon students.
3
Arcade Fire
The revered indie pop band comes out with a 
new, invigorating double album.
4
Parlour Song
Quantum Theatres ongoing production tells 
the story of a relationship in disarray.
5
Gravity
The psychological thriller stars Sandra Bullock 
and George Clooney in a visual masterpiece.
6
Opera
Alumnus Stephen Catanzarite discusses his 
work since graduating.
7
Fashion
Consult this style guide for tips on dressing for 
the colder weather.
8
Puzzles
Can you beat the record time for solving these 
puzzles?
13
Horoscopes
Sadly, these horoscopes have nothing to do 
with time.
14
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar to get your arts 
and culture fix.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 11.04.133
Alpenglow comes to CMU
Indie pop band receives warm reception from students
Indie folk-rock band Alpenglow visited Pittsburgh 
for the first time last Wednesday to perform at the 
Underground. The Vermont-based group has been 
building a fan base with live performances across 
the country and is currently touring with Brooklynbased indie pop band Lucius, while promoting the 
release of its new EP Solitude. Lucius, the original 
headliner for the show, ended up canceling its gig 
due to medical reasons.
The concert started 10 minutes late, but once it 
started, the audience was immediately taken by the 
charm and originality of Alpenglows music. In front 
of a crowd of around 20 people, the band performed 
a set of 10 songs, many of which were new and 
unreleased. The group performed The Following, 
a slow song about love, and followed with the more 
upbeat Gabriel.
Alpenglow continued with Drone, Shout it Out, 
and Solitude, the last of which belongs to the 
bands EP. The set covered fast songs and slow 
songs in no particular order, but the energy was so 
high that the audience was engaged every step of 
the way. The band went on to perform a love song, 
Eliza, followed by Border Lines and Been So 
Long.
Toward the end, the group played Old Country. 
Before this performance, Alpenglows main vocalist, 
Graeme Daubert, shared that the song was written 
about his grandfather  one of the few times the 
band spoke out to the audience. The set closed with 
a single from the album Catskills  a quiet, somber 
tune that picked up toward the end, characterized 
by the ghostly effect of the violin.
Even for those who had never heard of Alpenglow 
before the show, the groups style was immediately 
evident from the songs it played: The band members 
played heavily with the acoustic guitar, and their 
songs were characterized by their distinctive use 
of harmonies and instruments. The tunes that 
incorporated the violin were particularly impressive. 
The band made frequent use of the keyboard, banjo, 
and mouth harmonica, which the audience was 
delighted to hear. Some of their songs had infectious 
beats, sounding like Coldplay and Arcade Fire rolled 
into one band.
The band members stayed on after the performance 
to talk to students and sell copies of their EP, and 
were very friendly and engaging. In the future, 
look forward to hearing more from this excellent, 
upcoming band.
Nandini Ramakrishnan | Junior Staffwriter
Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Ryan and Matt 
(if those are your real 
names),
Dudes, I cant help it! 
Im stuck in my room 
watching all the TV shows 
from my childhood in the 
90s. Ive made it through 
all eight seasons of Home 
Improvement, the original 
Mighty Morphin Power 
Rangers, seven seasons 
of Buffy, two seasons 
of Sonic the Hedgehog, 
and all four Home Alone 
movies. Im sure all the 
girls on my floor think its 
fly that Im getting back 
in touch with this culture, 
but none of them want to 
watch the TGIF lineups 
with me. What am I doing 
wrong, home skillets?
Help would be nice. As if!
Netflix-Occupied Student 
Trapped At Laptop, 
Gorging In Archives
Dear NOSTALGIA,
Chill out dawg, Weve been 
there. Bill Nye the Science 
Guy is the reason Ryan got 
into Carnegie Mellon, and 
we all yearn for a time before 
Dubya Bush. The second 
half of the semester often 
picks up and will knock 
those lazy tendencies right 
out of you. That might also 
help with your girl problem; 
women love a man who can 
demonstrate dependability. 
There is a time for work 
and a time for play, and the 
90s were certainly a time 
for play, but Im sure you 
know that Carnegie Mellon 
is unfortunately a place for 
work. Buckle up!
Actually, for the ladies, 
Friends should be next in 
your Netflix cue.
Matt & Ryan
Dear Matt & Ryan,
I went to a great 
Halloween party last 
night, and I met a really 
great guy. Dont let him 
know, but he is definitely 
my next boyfriend. I went 
as a classic witch and 
happened across the 
perfect scarecrow. I hope 
next year he can be the 
yang to my yin; needless 
to say, we really hit it 
off. The only problem is I 
never got his name, or his 
Andrew ID. Can you guys 
help me?
Enamored, Lucky 
Partygoer Has 
Anonymous Boy 
Acquaintance
Dear ELPHABA,
If you love someone deeply 
enough, anything can 
happen, even miracles. You 
might want to head back 
to that house and wait for 
your Halloween love, just 
like Brigadoons Tommy. We 
have no doubt that Jack 
Skellington can help you 
find your love, or maybe if 
you get the flying monkeys 
to kidnap the girl dressed 
as Dorothy, Toto will lead 
your scarecrow right to you. 
Were pretty sure that might 
be a felony, but if you do it in 
the name of love, any judge 
will look the other way.
Scarecrow, if you are 
reading this, go find your 
Elphaba. Shes head 
over heels for you, and 
we dont want to be 
responsible for attempted 
kidnapping
Ryan & Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About nostalgia and love at first meet
Vermont-based indie pop group Alpenglow played for a small crowd of students last Wednesday.
Courtesy of Alpenglow
Alpenglow is on tour promoting its new EP, 
Solitude.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 11.04.13
Arcade Fires latest opus, double album Re?ektor, proves 
the band only continues to get better. Featuring lush 
orchestral arrangements and dance-ready rhythms, the 
album  released last week  meditates on life, death, 
and the collective and singular experiences of music and 
art. Just like Talking Heads  an obvious in?uence on 
the album  in the 1980s, Arcade Fire is this decades 
most creative, well-known group that continues to outdo 
everyone else, even itself.
Arcade Fire doesnt release albums just for the sake of 
releasing albums; instead, the band spends two to three 
years crafting a piece of art that is unveiled to the world 
once ?nished. Once the biggest band in indie world, 
Arcade Fire became one of the most well-known names 
in mainstream music when its 2010 album The Suburbs 
won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 2011.
Produced by the original hipster hater and retired LCD 
Soundsystem creative force James Murphy, Re?ektor 
features rhythms far better suited to dance than 
anything weve heard from Arcade Fire before. The title 
track features a solid disco beat, while Here Comes The 
Night Time has everything from dramatic tempo shifts 
to bouncing Caribbean hand drums and jangling piano.
Arcade Fire has brought new ingredients to its unique 
sound with every album, and Re?ektor adds rich 
orchestral arrangements to the stew. Second-disc 
standouts Awful Sound (Oh Eurydice), Porno, and 
Afterlife are prime examples of the mastery with which 
Arcade Fire incorporates new sounds into the fabric of 
the songs.
That being said, one of the albums highest points 
comes with the simple rock-and-roll stomp of Normal 
Person. With rougher production and drums that sound 
like crashing pots and pans, the song is a momentary 
explosion in an otherwise controlled ?ow of emotion.
Arcade Fire seems to exclusively tackle big idea 
themes, and after the bands debut  2004s Funeral 
 Re?ektor is the second album in which the band has 
focused so intensely on life and death. Nine years later, 
Arcade Fire has gone a little deeper than the childlike musings of Funeral. While that albums Rebellion 
(Lies) chose to hide from the world rather than face it, 
Re?ektors Afterlife instead muses on deep questions 
with lyrics like, When love is gone, where does it go? 
and visions of what comes next.
At times, the lyrics  like those in Joan of Arc  
sound like poetry written by someone in the 10th grade: 
Theyre the ones that spit on you / Cause they got no 
heart / Im the one that will follow you / Youre my Joan 
of Arc.
But thats always been a part of what makes Arcade 
Fire so engaging. These musicians wear their hearts on 
their sleeves and say with dignity what many of us are 
embarrassed to say, with the musical chops to back up 
every semi-cheesy line.
In a year of high-pro?le album releases and rollouts that 
employed wild strategies to build up anticipation  Daft 
Punks Random Access Memories and Kanye Wests 
Yeezus come to mind  none feel more deserving of 
the hype than Re?ektor. Its an album that proves that 
a band at the peak of its creative powers is still willing 
to try new things rather than settle on formulas. Its a 
testament to how, even in an age when Jay-Zs album 
goes instantly platinum thanks to a multimillion-dollar 
business deal with Samsung, passion and commitment 
are still recognized.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of Man Alive! via Flickr
Win Butler (left) and his wife Rgine Chassagne (top) 
head indie pop group Arcade Fire.
Arcade Fire lights up music world with Re?ektor
New album shows the indie pop band moving toward even greater musical success
Courtesy of Man Alive! via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 11.04.135
Parlour Song packs an emotional punch
The Quantum Theatre production immerses audiences in a meaningful dialogue
There comes a moment in life when things begin to 
feel as if they are slowly losing meaning, as things 
you once thought you understood  things you 
thought you loved  slip away.
Last Friday, Quantum Theatre opened the play 
Parlour Song, featuring School of Drama professor 
Cameron Knight. Instead of the theaters East Liberty 
venue, the play is staged at the former Pittsburgh 
Burger Company location in Homestead, adapted 
specially for this production and lending itself to an 
untraditional and intimate performance setup.
Set in middle-class suburbia outside London, the 
play revolves around the lives of three characters: 
Ned (played by Knight), his friend and neighbor Dale 
(Brendan McMahon), and Neds wife Joy (Sarah Silk).
Ned is a demolition expert, literally blowing up old 
things to make room for the new on a daily basis. Yet 
in his personal life, he seems to do just the opposite, 
trying as hard as he can to preserve his marriage and 
his life.
In the couples ?rst scene, a desperately eager-toplease Ned tries to enthuse his passive-aggressive 
wife by offering her more and more food and stories, 
all of which she rejects, unwilling to engage with her 
husband. Opposite Neds desperate attempts to ?nd 
meaning in his life is his best friend Dales ability 
to live in the moment. Dales humor cuts through 
the tension created by Ned and Joys complicated 
relationship, but McMahons portrayal gives Dale 
depth in his own right.
The play deals with themes of dissatisfaction, the 
impermanence of life within time, and a fascination 
with the power of destruction. As Neds possessions 
all mysteriously begin disappearing from his home, 
the man who destroys things for a living begins to 
have nightmares of his life itself evaporating away. 
It becomes not the objects themselves that are 
important, but rather the symbolism of losing all the 
little parts of your life until you have nothing. Objects 
become symbolic of moments in time, in a world 
where relationships are impermanent and life is 
unstable overall.
The acting captures the intensity of ordinary yet 
profound dilemmas. Each of the three actors carries 
equal weight, creating a dynamic in the room 
that makes the simple script profound: Knights 
enactment of a man desperate to preserve the past, 
McMahons ability to balance Dales infectious 
humor but still come off as a dynamic character, and 
Silks stunning, emotionally charged performance 
of a woman trapped in her own life, searching for 
a way out. There are moments when we feel as if 
were inside the minds of all three characters. Even if 
everything that has happened isnt fully understood, 
we feel fully immersed in their world.
What makes this play so engaging is that even as 
it deals directly with increasingly dark themes, the 
dialogue between the characters stays realistic. 
There is the sense that in spite of the characters 
urgency and desperation, these scenes are ordinary 
moments in time. This effect makes the piece all the 
more relatable, making viewers question the meaning 
in their own lives.
In addition to the dynamic acting, the tension in the 
play is created through the use of echoing music 
and dim spotlights. The stage and audience are 
undivided, making the stage feel a part of reality. 
Projected words, phrases, and images are used to 
comment on the action in between scenes. When the 
play ends, there is an intimate energy left over in the 
room, as the bedside lamp stays dimly lit. The scene 
created the illusion that although the actors had left, 
the set still carried the longing, anger, and confusion 
of the story.
Parlour Song will run through Nov. 24 in Homestead.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of Quantum Theatre
Courtesy of Quantum Theatre
Ned (Cameron Knight) tries his best to salvage his 
marriage with his wife Joy (Sarah Silk) in Quantum 
Theatres production of Parlour Song.
Dale (Brendan McMahon) shares a moment with 
his friend Neds wife Joy (Sarah Silk) in Quantum 
Theatres production of Parlour Song. 

---------------------------------------------------

6film
pillbox 11.04.13
If youre seriously considering a career as an astronaut, 
you shouldnt see Gravity. If youre looking for an intense 
psychological thriller with dazzling special effects, you 
absolutely should.
Alfonso Cuarns Gravity is only 91 minutes long, but 
it seems longer. Once the action picks up  about ?ve 
minutes into the movie  it grips you and doesnt let go 
until the very end, alternating between long stretches 
of terror and rare moments of relief. Youll be breathing 
almost as hard as mission specialist Ryan Stone (Sandra 
Bullock), forgetting youre safely grounded on Earth, 
rather than out in space and losing oxygen with every 
gasp.
The ?lm follows two American astronauts forced to 
improvise for their survival when their spacecraft is hit 
by ?ying debris, sending them tumbling into space. 
Their luck is both devastatingly bad and absurdly 
good at different times, and at certain moments, these 
astronauts are literally holding on by the tips of their 
?ngers.
The characters are pigeonholed into their stereotypes 
very early on: Stone is the inexperienced genius doctor 
on her ?rst space mission, while Matt Kowalski (George 
Clooney) is a chatterbox veteran astronaut who keeps his 
cool under pressure.
In fact, with everything else going on, its easy to 
overlook that the characters are remarkably ?at and rely 
largely on established schemata. Bullocks character 
hints at a tragic past, but even that story is barely 
?eshed out. The lack of complexity is likely a strategic 
choice  a shortcut to get to the action faster, rather 
than wading through slower scenes to establish story. 
Whatever the reason, this lack of character development 
inevitably makes the protagonists less compelling  
perhaps a necessary sacri?ce for the pace of the ?lm.
Character development aside, Gravity is most impressive 
as a visual experience. For this reason, it should almost 
exclusively be seen in theaters. Above anything else, 
the movie is characterized by its stunningly sharp 
photography. During a few of the slower-paced scenes, 
we have time to zoom out and gaze at dazzling views 
of the Earths surface through its swirling atmosphere. 
The ?lm does a brilliant job of planting the viewer in 
outer space; its easy to understand how beautiful 
and expansive, yet also terrifying and unforgiving, the 
universe must seem to these astronauts.
These views are accompanied by a minimal music 
score  a pulsing bass that increases in tempo as 
tension rises. The score suits the ?lms clean aesthetic 
and simple, driving plot, but even more notable than the 
?lms use of music is its use of silence. At points, the 
pulse drops out, leaving both viewers and characters 
in nail-biting silence, reminding us how very alone the 
astronauts are in their struggle to survive.
Gravity is an immersive experience on all levels, visually 
and psychologically. Youll leave the theater awed, in 
both good and bad ways. The ?lm reminds us that the 
universe is a beautiful and wondrous place, but as Stone 
eloquently puts it during one of the ?lms rare comedic 
moments, I hate space.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Gravity keeps audiences in suspense
Sandra Bullock and George Clooney star as stranded astronauts in visually stunning ?lm
Andie Park | Staffwriter
You know whats awesome? Giant monsters. You know whats even better? Giant 
robots ?ghting giant monsters. Director Guillermo del Toro revives the kaiju genre with 
his spectacular ?lm that celebrates action as a form of art and pure entertainment. 
When the world is on the brink of kaiju domination, humanitys only hope is to recruit 
the worlds best ?ghters to pilot warrior robots called jaegers. The ?lm contains some 
of the best action sequences in recent memory that truly revive and rede?ne monster 
movies with its own inventive rush of adrenaline. For two hours, you can sit down 
and regress to your 10-year-old self as you are reminded of what makes for true 
entertainment.
Pacific Rim 
Saturday, Nov. 9  7 p.m.
Sunday, Nov. 10  9:30 p.m.
The Wolverine
Saturday, Nov. 9  10 p.m.
Sunday, Nov. 10  7 p.m.
In the sequel to the ?rst solo superhero ?lm of the X-Men franchise, Hugh Jackman 
returns as the Wolverine to ?ght samurai-ninjas in Japan. After battling his inner demons, 
the Wolverine believes he is ?nally free of his superhero abilities when a Japanese 
business tycoon offers to get rid of his cursed immortality. What ensues afterward is 
an adrenaline-fueled series of intense action sequences that is perfectly paced and 
suspenseful. After a rather lackluster prequel, director James Mangold manages to 
make this more than a popcorn summer ?ick by infusing it with authentic character 
development and a powerfully dark storyline that avoids cheesiness. Jackman (and his 
insanely ripped body) proves yet again that he can do just about anything, especially 
with a set of claws made of adamantium.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 11.04.137
Few things are as dear to Western Pennsylvanians as 
the 1968 horror ?lm, Night of the Living Dead, ?lmed in 
Evans City, Pa., by horror movie pioneer and Carnegie 
Institute of Technology alumnus George A. Romero. 
Stephen Catanzarite (DC 90) combined his love for the 
?lm with his creative writing background to create Night 
of the Living Dead: The Opera.
On Tuesday evening, students and faculty members 
gathered in the Gladys Schmidt Creative Writing 
Center in Baker Hall for an intimate conversation with 
Catanzarite about writing and working as a Carnegie 
Mellon graduate. Sigma Tau Delta, the international 
English honor society, organized the talk.
I didnt know what I was going to do, Catanzarite 
said of his career path after graduation. He ?rst began 
writing for industrial videos, but eventually became the 
founder of two charter schools that emphasize the arts in 
education.
It was a combination of chance meetings and Hollywood 
connections that led to Catanzarite penning the 
libretto for an opera. It was originally proposed to 
him as a Broadway musical, but Catanzarite thought 
the inherently campy nature of musicals would ruin 
the story. He took his job very seriously, wanting to 
pay homage to the genius of the ?lm, rather than 
entertaining for entertainings sake. The opera stays true 
to its source material, following seven people trapped in 
a farmhouse during a zombie attack.
So yes, the zombies sing  but the catch is that they 
can only communicate as a group, representing what 
Catanzarite describes as a voice or consciousness in 
numbers. The team behind the production also kept 
it rooted in Western Pennsylvania, throwing in small 
references to places or people familiar to the area and 
even some Pittsburghese.
Catanzarite wasnt the only member of the Carnegie 
Mellon community involved in the production. Andres 
Cladera (CFA 03) and Erica Olden (CFA 97, 01) are the 
co-founders of The Microscopic Opera Company, which 
is putting on the show. Gregory Lehane, a Carnegie 
Mellon professor of drama, directed the production, and 
Britton Mauk (CFA 13) is the scenic designer.
Catanzarites passion for the project was obvious just by 
how much he had to say. Although the subject of his talk 
was writing in general, the conversation kept coming 
back to the production. He also talked at length about 
his time at Carnegie Mellon and how much it prepared 
him for writing the opera. Catanzarite showed Dietrich 
students that their training in the humanities can be 
expanded in strange but productive ways.
The gathering of people was small, but that atmosphere 
lent itself to the conversational nature of Catanzarites 
talk, as students and faculty interrupted to clarify or ask 
questions, or even to crack a joke.
After talking about his accomplishments for an hour, 
Catanzarite jokingly asked, Am I a distinguished alumni 
yet?
The world premiere of Night of the Living Dead: The 
Opera ran from Oct. 31 through Nov. 3 at the Kelly 
Strayhorn Theater in the Penn Avenue Arts District.
Mairad Pettit | Staffwriter
Alumnus offers student writers brain food
Catanzarite announces the world premiere of The Night of the Living Dead: The Opera
Numerous Carnegie Mellon alumni worked to produce 
The Night of the Living: The Opera, which premiered 
last weekend at Pittsburghs Kelly Strayhorn Theater.
Courtesy of The Microscopic Opera Company

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 11.04.1398feature
pillbox 11.04.13
Everyone has favorite and least favorite seasons. For 
me, winter is certainly my least favorite, mostly due to 
the hassle of determining what to wear each morning. 
Not only do I have to worry about looking presentable, I 
also have to stay warm. I ?nd myself repeating the same 
out?t combination of leggings, a sweater, and boots 
every day because its quick and comfortable  but 
thats become stale.
Fortunately, Ive discovered a couple methods to 
alleviate this problem. You can read them below in this 
comprehensive guide to dressing for cold weather.
Outerwear
Lets start with outerwear. You have a lot of options, but 
depending on the situation, some are more appropriate 
than others. For nice, crisp fall weather, choose a classic 
denim jacket. These look great layered over anything 
from a patterned dress to leggings and a trendy shirt. 
Avoid wearing jeans with your denim jacket; the denim 
on denim look could make you look too much like a 
cowboy. Leather jackets are another fall staple.
Slightly colder weather calls for a thicker jacket, like the 
very trendy military jacket. It seems like the military 
jacket may even have replaced the denim jacket as a fall 
wardrobe staple  youll see them everywhere you look. 
Layer yours over a sweater to stay warm.
Windbreakers are also pretty common, and as the name 
suggests, theyre the best for those days that are windy, 
rainy, or just plain gross. If youre planning to buy one, 
get one with a hood to protect yourself from the rain.
When it becomes inhumanly cold outside and you have 
to walk to class, its time to bring out the puffy jacket. 
While these jackets may not be the most ?attering, 
at this point, warmth should be your top priority. 
Accessorize with a cute hat or head wrap to keep your 
ears warm, as well as gloves and a thick winter scarf.
For more formal occasions, blazers are a great way to 
dress up an out?t when it isnt too cold out. Try wearing 
one over a nicer top, with jeans and boots for a chic look. 
Pea coats are also appropriate for dressier events. You 
can pair a pea coat with a dress, tights, and heels for a 
polished look.
Sweaters
Now that youre an expert on which type of jackets to 
wear and when to wear them, we can move on to the 
shirts, sweaters, and cardigans category. Generally, 
when choosing an out?t in the morning, the ?rst item of 
clothing that comes to mind is the most comfortable  
leggings. Then I face the struggle of ?nding a sweater I 
havent worn in the past couple of days thats also long 
enough to wear with leggings. Sound familiar? Well, here 
are a few tips to help you deal with this problem.
Its always good to have a lot of comfortable sweaters, 
but think about adding variety next time you shop. A 
close relative of the comfortable, oversized sweater is the 
Colder weather brings new opportunities for fashion inspiration
Mix up the go-to leggings-and-sweater look with this comprehensive guide to dressing for cold weather
Top left: First-year cognitive science major Mia Lippey layers a leather motorcycle jacket over a hoodie. 
Bottom left: Sophomore architecture major Jenny Wong wears plaid pants and a military-style coat.
                 Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
by Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter[]
sweater dress. You can wear it with leggings or tights 
and boots and its basically a new version of your old 
go-to out?t. If you have any longer cardigans, layer those 
over longer shirts as well.
In terms of cardigans, everyone should own at least 
three. I recommend black, gray, and tan as the bare 
minimum. Colors are always good to have, but neutrals 
are the top priority since they can be worn over 
anything.
Tops
Tops are the main way to add variety to your out?ts, so 
make sure theyre interesting. You should de?nitely have 
a couple of basics to build off of, but try to ?nd shirts that 
have some color, detail, or anything else thats unique. 
You also want to look for shirts of different lengths 
and materials, so that you can wear them with either 
leggings or jeans. Lately, people have been wearing 
edgier shirts with studs and cutouts. At the same time, 
many stores have been featuring T-shirts with animals 
printed on them  another major trend  as well as 
tops with beaded necklines. Get long-sleeved versions of 
these to keep warm, or if yours has shorter sleeves, wear 
it with a cardigan.
Bottoms
Bottoms can be another issue in winter weather. When 
its warm out, its easy to just throw on a pair of shorts; 
you dont risk each out?t looking the same, since shorts 
come in a variety of styles and colors. However, its easy 
to feel repetitive as it gets colder and you ?nd yourself 
alternating between jeans and black leggings.
From blue jeans and black leggings, the obvious step up 
is to wear printed versions of either of these. Recently, 
the range of styles of printed jeans and leggings has 
signi?cantly broadened to those with cutouts, leather 
panels, and more. Colored denim has been in style for 
a while and is a great way to add interest to your look. 
Colored jeans look best paired with a neutral-colored top. 
Floral leggings have been in style for while and seem to 
be here to stay, as well as Aztec print.
However, there are alternatives to jeans and leggings, 
such as corduroys. Now, I know what youre thinking: 
Theyre old-man pants. At least, thats what I thought 
when I ?rst heard that Free People clothing store was 
introducing them a few years ago  but the ?oral and 
plaid prints completely changed my mind. Free People 
also sells solid-colored corduroy pants, and other stores 
have similar items.
If you feel like dressing up a little, wear a skirt with 
tights. To class, you could wear this with a cardigan and 
boots, or if you have a special event to attend, complete 
the look with a nice shirt and heels.
Jewelry
My last tip is to accessorize with jewelry to vary your 
out?ts. A chunky necklace can make last weeks plain 
sweater look completely different. The same can be done 
with a pair of statement earrings. The key is to mix and 
match to create a whole new wardrobe for winter.
Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
Top right: Senior chemical engineering major Michelle Ruiz pairs tights with boots under a pea coat.
Bottom right: First-year mechanical engineering major Evan Adkins flaunts a sweater with a distinctive knit.
Sara Remi Fields | Junior Photographer
                  Sara Remi Fields | Junior Photographer
Senior statistics major Demaris Bells (left) and senior finance and Hispanic studies double major Alexis Jenkins sport a fleece 
zip-up and a trench-style pea coat.
                  Sara Remi Fields | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

Robert E. Doherty 
1936  1950Thomas S. Baker
1922  1935
John Christian Warner
1950  1965
H. Guyford Stever
1965  1972
Arthur A. Hamerschlag
1903  1922Richard M. Cyert
1972  1990
Robert Mehrabian
1990  1997Jared L. Cohon
1997  2013
Subra Suresh
2013
JOIN THE CELEBRATION
NOVEMBER 14  15
www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
PRESIDENTIAL HIGHLIGHTS
#CMUsuresh
 Improved undergraduate education, doubling student applications to CMU after his first year
 Oversaw the completion of a new University Center, two new residence halls and Gesling Stadium
 Guided CMUs global expansion to include Qatar, Silicon Valley and Australia, as well as degree programs in 20 countries
 Linked the university research agenda to economic development and entrepreneurship, and led the expansion of 
   interdisciplinary teaching and research on urgent global and environmental issues

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 11.04.1311
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com
Plans by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 11.04.13
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Hark, A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comharkavagrant.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 11.04.1313
Solutions from Oct. 28
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 11.04.13
1. Yellow cheese coated with red wax
2. Poi source
3. Env. notation
4. Authority
5. Short swordlike weapon
6. Protestant of Northern Ireland
7. Round number?
8. Diary bit
9. ___ degree
10. Act of spying
11. Clench
12. Breathe convulsively
13. Anthem opener
21. Now ___ me down...
22. Caustic stuff
25. Minerals
26. Best of a group
27. Discover
28. Bundle of sticks
30. Broadcaster
32. Representative
33. Scout master?
34. Fidgety
36. Eighty
38. Capable of being split
41. Barely managed, with out
45. Capital of Calvados, in NW France
47. Auroras counterpart
49. Principles
52. Become less intense, die off
54. Longed
55. Disrespectful back talk
56. Not guilty, e.g.
57. Pulitzer-winning biographer Leon
59. Downfall
60. Equipment
61. Organization to promote theater
62. Catbird seat?
64. Apply lightly
1. Greek vowels
5. Group of 12
10. Breakfast brand
14. Group of individual facts
15. Aint right?
16. Ladies of Sp.
17. Bohemian
18. Brooks of country
19. Galileos birthplace
20. Prelate
22. Having prominent lips
23. Couturier Cassini
24. Spoollike toy
26. Pole worker
29. Domain
31. Soprano Scotto
35. Like spinach
37. House rodents
39. Stravinsky ballet
40. Othello villain
41. Viscounts superiors
42. Ladys escort
43. Drop ___ (moon)
44. Child support?
45. Pennies
46. Main dish
48. Pro follower
50. Plaything
51. Fizzy drink
53. Prezs backup
55. Glasses, briefly
58. A carousal
63. Designer Gucci
64. Meat stew braised in red wine
65. Hawaiian goose
66. Prophet
67. Inclined
68. Consumes
69. Garage event
70. Elaines last name on Seinfeld
71. Curses!
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Its time to get things off your chest. But hurry, because 
soon you may not be able to.
taurus
april 20may 20
You must accept your fate instead of trying to fight it.
gemini
may 21june 21
Everyone has flaws, but the greatest flaw is being unable to 
recognize your flaws.
cancer
june 22july 22
Most people have a carefully constructed faade; its your 
job to find the cracks.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You will get an opportunity to let someone else know how 
much they mean to you.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Remember your past experiences and learn from them.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Before you can follow your heart, you have to know where 
its going.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Dont let the grass grow under your feet  keep rolling.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Your dreams may make sense if taken literally, but think 
about their deeper meanings.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Luck and love never run out.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Think about whether not knowing something is worth losing 
a friend.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
If you keep digging, youll eventually get where you want to 
go.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 11.04.1315
TUESDAY11.5.13
Activities Board presents Sarah Kay. 
McConomy Auditorium. 5:30 p.m.
AB Lectures will host a talk by Sarah Kay, a spoken word 
poet and founder of Project V.O.I.C.E. Project V.O.I.C.E 
is an international movement that promotes the spoken 
word platform as a tool for inspiration and self-expression.
WEDNESDAY11.6.13
U.S. Royalty. The Underground. 7 p.m.
The Washington D.C.-based indie rock band will 
perform at The Underground. Since its beginnings in 
rural Maryland, U.S. Royalty has appeared at South by 
Southwest and other festivals across North America.
THURSDAY11.7.13
Defense Challenges of the Next Decade. 
Gates Hillman Complex 4307. 4:15 p.m.
Guest speaker Mary Leed is the former senior adviser to 
the chief of staff for the U.S. Army.
FRIDAY11.8.13
Activities Board presents Time?ies and Chiddy 
Bang. Wiegand Gymnasium. 7 p.m.
Time?ies will perform with Chiddy Bang in an event 
sponsored by AB Concerts. Tickets are free for Carnegie 
Mellon students and $10 for the general public.
Faculty Recital: Jennifer Aylmer, soprano with Karen 
Roethlisberger Verm, piano. 
Kresge Theatre. 7:30 p.m.
Jennifer Aylmer, assistant professor of voice, will perform 
a diverse program of songs spanning the 20th century 
and the globe, including works by Eduard Toldr and 
Richard Strauss.
WRCT 88.3FM Fall Dance Party. 
KBOX (214 S. Craig St.). 9 p.m.
The annual fall dance party will feature a lineup of WRCT 
student DJs. Tickets are $5 at the door.
ONGOING
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & 
Illustration. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation 
(Hunt Library, Fifth Floor). 
Through Dec. 19.
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by 41 
artists from 10 countries. The Institute established the 
International series in 1964 with the hope of supporting 
and encouraging contemporary botanical artists. Every 
three years, the International series features the works of 
talented botanical artists from around the world.
Yasumasa Morimura: Theater of the Self. 
The Andy Warhol Museum. Through Jan. 12.
In this retrospective exhibit presented by the Andy Warhol 
Museum, Japanese artist Yasumasa Morimura plays with 
images of well-known cultural icons, placing his own face 
over portraits of ?gures like Marilyn Monroe and Mao 
Zedong. For more information, visit warhol.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an 
underground feminist punk rock movement that surfaced 
in the 90s, on artists and cultural producers today. For 
more information, visit millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through March 16.
The biennial Carnegie International brings the world art 
scene to Pittsburgh in a large exhibition of diverse works. 
This years exhibition features 35 artists and represents 19 
countries. For more information, visit cmoa.org.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
sun   mon  tue  wed   thr     fri   satBirth control 
+ 
Obamacare 
=
No longer a 
burdened expense for 
a woman or a couple.
Planned Parenthood of Western Pennsylvania
1.800.230.PLAN    
  www.ppwp.org

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 11.04.13
Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
FORGE hosted a celebration of the Nepali holiday season in Rangos 
Hall on Friday night. The event included live music, dancing, native 
stories, and plenty of Nepalese and Bhutanese cuisine. The night 
was made possible with help from the local Nepali and Bhutanese 
population.
cultural celebration.
