TARTAN
Volume 66Number 7Wednesday, October 26, 1966
Strathmeyer Examines 
School Bus Proposal
I A special student-faculty committee has proposed a 
school bus system to alleviate parking problems on the Tech 
campus. The committee, which includes Phil Mason and Ron 
Haan of Student Senate, discussed the idea last Thursday 
at its first meeting.
Administrative members of the 
committee are R. D. Strathmeyer, 
vice-president for Business Af
fairs; Earle R. Swank, Dean of 
Men; William D. Young,Chief of 
Security Police; and faculty and 
} staff representatives.
See Editorial page 4
Strathmeyer is in charge of 
forming a subcommittee to look 
further into the bus plan. Under 
the plan as it was proposed, bus
es owned or rented by the school 
would serve students, faculty, and 
staff in the Oakland-ShadysideSquirrel Hill area.
To be feasible, the buses would 
have to run at frequent inter
vals all day and cover a fairly 
large area.
The bus system, still purely 
hypothetical, was brought up 
because of the difficulty of pro
viding more parking space on 
campus.
Existing campus parking lots 
do not even afford enough room 
for faculty and staff automobiles. 
Spaces in the lot behind Morewood will be reassigned to fac
ulty and staff to help compensate 
for this deficiency.
There is no more school-owned 
property currently available for 
parking, and the cost of buying 
or leasing adjacent property 
would be prohibitive.
Meters Discussed
The installation of parking me
ters in Schenley Park and on 
Forbes Ave. below Morewood 
was also discussed at the meet
ing. These meters are being put 
in by the City Department of 
Traffic Safety, supposedly to dis
courage non-Tech drivers from 
parking in Oakland and taking 
trolleys or streetcars downtown.
They will be all-day meters, 
with possibly some two-hour me
ters on the Phipps Conservatoryside of Schenley Drive.
Draft Notices
Any student who has received 
a change of draft classification, 
notice to get a physical or notice 
of induction should report at once 
to Dean Swanks office. Students 
are reminded that under law 
they may remain in school until 
the end of the academic year, 
despite a notice of induction.
Round Robins Introduce 
Independents, Sororities
All women students are cordially invited to attend the 
second set of Round Robins, which are informal parties spon
sored by the Panhellenic Council. They will be held Sunday, 
October 30, and Sunday, November 6, in Morewood Gardens, 
starting from the Morewood Rercreation Room at 1:45 pm 
on both the above dates. Dress is casual.
The purpose of the Round Rob
ins is to enable non sorority wom
en to acquaint themselves with 
the seven sororities on campus, 
Alpha Epsilon Phi, Chi Omega 
Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma, 
Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kap
pa Gamma, and Sigma Kappa. 
Women are encouraged to attend 
the series of parties on both 
dates because only four of the 
sorority groups will meet on Oc
tober 30, and three groups on 
November 6. A rotation system 
is followed so that everyone will 
be able to visit with each group. 
No grade requirement is neces
sary to attend the Round Robins.
The parties are each 30 min
utes long and provide an oppor
tunity to meet with individual 
sororities and to see their floors. 
Women who attended the first 
set of two Round Robins are 
welcome to attend the second set 
along with those who missed the 
first set of parties.
Any questions concerning 
Hush or sorority life may be re
ferred to Sorority Life or to 
a member of Rush Council: 
Janis Andrews (4C) and Ruth 
Steiger (5C), rush co-chairman, 
Judy Geffner (7C), Collie Lang
worthy (5C), Chris Davis (2B), 
Sally Sands (5D), Cindy Morse
(6C), Debbie Andruss 
and Nancy Dew (4D).
(3D),
Formal rush begins Sunday, 
Nov. 20, with Open House, a 
series of seven 25-minute parties. 
Any girl who is interested in 
pledging a sorority first semester 
MUST ATTEND this function and 
the invitational parties to be 
held on Sunday, Dec. 4; Monday, 
Dec. 5; Wednesday, Dec. 7; and 
Friday, Dec. 9.
Corrections
The Tartan News Staff would 
like to correct several errors and 
omissions in last weeks Home
coming story.
Finalists in the Homecoming 
queen election were, in addition 
to Queen Randee Rafkin, Holly 
Roth and Mae Wong.
Second place in the display con
test went to Delta Tau Delta for 
its rendition of Carnegie Side 
Stoiy.
Winners of the Varsity C Club 
awards for outstanding lineman 
and outstanding back in the Grove 
City game were Paul Beshenick 
and Charles Zak.
WQED To Operate At Tech; 
Colonial Apartments Will Qo
WQED, the first community-supported educational television station in the country, 
will be broadcasting from the Carnegie Te ch campus by June of 1968. Colonial Manor 
Apartments, the honor' housing unit for upperclass women, will be torn down next 
summer to make way for WQED studios and facilities.
The station will lease the land from Carnegie Tech on a token-fee basis, accord
ing to a Carnegie Tech News Service press release written by Regis J. Ebner, Director 
of Public Relations.
Colonial Manor Apartments
Donald V. Taverner, president 
of Metropolitan Pittsburgh Edu
cational Television, says, The 
site ideally meets our require
ments. We feel strongly the need 
to be located in Oakland, the 
cultural center of the city, with 
easy access to public transporta
tion, and in a position easily visi
ble to the general public.
While this move will in no 
way affect our operation as a 
community educational televi
sion station serving metropolit
an Pittsburgh, we do look for
ward to close cooperation with 
Carnegie Tech in many areas 
of programming, instruction, 
and educational opportunities. 
Tech president, H. Guyford 
Stever, says, Carnegie Tech has 
not been involved in educational 
television as much as it should. 
One of the Best
Stever calls WQED one of the 
best edrcational stations in the 
country, and said, In making 
this land available we think we 
will contribute significantly to the 
future growth of this fine institu
tion.
Tentative plans, he added, 
call for the development of our 
Dramatic Arts Center on land 
adjacent to the new WQED site. 
The proximity of the station will 
greatly enhance our drama stu
dents opportunities in television 
direction and production and will 
also provide the potential for the 
development of educational vis
ual aids, a field in which our 
faculty has great interest. 
Explaining the relationship be
tween Tech and WQED, Stever 
says, WQED does not want to 
be captured by Carnegie Tech 
... it has important work to do 
. . . but there is no question that, 
with this relocation, well be in 
a very favorable position.
Earle R. Gister, head of the 
Drama Department, had no im
mediate comment on the affili
ation with WQED.
In announcing the WQED plans 
last Wednesday in the Wherret 
Room, Dr. Stever said that when 
the Dramatic Arts Center is to be 
built depends on when funds can 
be raised. Development funds, he 
explained, are raised in two ways; 
through general development 
drives which solicit many small 
gifts, and through specific large 
gifts, such as the one which made
the Hunt Library possible.
Stever was also questioned 
about the implications of the sta
tions presence for non-Arts stu
dents, such as the possibility of 
instituting curricula in communi
cation sciences.
He answered that such a pro
gram cant be forcedit has to 
grow from the interests and ini
tiative of professors and students. 
Last Wednesday in the Wherrett 
lie cited the example of station 
WGBH in Massachusetts, which 
works closely with students from 
MIT.
Plant Now Inadequate
From its inception in 1954, 
WQED has been broadcasting 
from the old Holland Mansion in 
Oakland, across the street from 
Mellon Institute. This building is 
now obsolete and totally inade
quate for the educational sta
tions local programming, as well 
as its function as one of the na
tions key production centers in 
educational broadcasting. 
(WQED is a member of NET, the 
National Educational Television 
Network.)
Paul Schweikher, head of the 
Architecture Department at 
Tech, designed an addition to 
the Holland Mansion, but staStever: Honor 
Housing Valid
Carnegie Techs decision to 
raze Colonial Manor Apart
ments to make way for new 
WQED television facilities 
does not reflect a change in 
the schools ideas on wom
ens housing, according to 
Tech president H. Guyford 
Stever.
Announcing the WQED affilia
tion to a small group of students 
and administrators last Thursday, 
Stever said that the decision 
does not indicate disapproval of 
the honor housing system for up
perclass women, but is a choice 
between the immediate problem 
of housing women versus the 
long-term possibility of educa
tional gain that can accrue from 
cooperation with WQED.
Stever says reports indicate the 
women are pleased with Colonial 
Manor, and in future planning 
we will definitely consider apartment-dormitories for women. 
Its going to be hard on some 
women, he said, but we will 
move to get other apartments of 
this type available.
Some apartments of this typ^ 
he mentioned are the units in 
the basement of E-Tower in 
Morewood Gardens, and ten 
apartments on the upper floors 
of the Wood lawn Pharmacy build
ing, which the school owns.
tion authorities finally con
cluded a move was necessary.
Several sites were considered, 
one near Chatham College and 
another in Schenley Park near 
Forbes Field. Early this summer, 
Carnegie Tech offered WQED the 
ground on which Colonial Man
or now stands.
The new WQED building will 
contain nearly 60,000 useable 
(Continued on Page 4)
Placement Bureau Asks 
Advice On Summer Jobs
Although it is only the end of October, many students 
and the staff of the Bureau of Placements are beginning to 
think about employment during the summer of 1967. Ac
cording to E. F. Ventura, who coordinates the summer job 
program for the Bureau, There is every indication that the 
economy will support at least as many, and probably more 
summer opportunities than last year.
Ventura explains that the pri
mary concern of the Bureau is 
that Carnegie Tech students get 
summer jobs which are optimal
ly meaningful and enjoyable, and 
that we provide as much infor
mation as possible toward that 
end. It is important for students 
to understand that we are re
gretfully unable to devote the 
full time of a staff member to 
this function, but that we are 
trying to do our best.
One of the better ways the Bureau can be most efficient in this 
regard, says Mr. Ventura, is 
through the collection, study, and 
evaluation of information that 
only students can provide about 
their summer job experiences; 
they evaluate the services the 
Bureau provides. In the past 
this feedback was obtained by 
mailing a questionnaire to each 
student who had formally regis
tered with the Bureau. With the 
current policy of providing sum(Continued on Page 8)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 26, 1966
Really!! theres a time and place for everything!Really?this time I know just the place!
CO-STARRINGBRIANJULIEJAMESBEDFORD SOM MARS FARENTINO
THIRD
SiiI mugtrsmn uu-s-mWEEK
ENGLISH LANGUAGE VERSION
Kirks Ideas Critique Topic
The Critique of the University 
will be the subject of a meeting 
tomorrow at 4:30 in Skibo 57. The 
topic for discussion will be Dr. 
Jerry Kirks On Understanding 
Students.
This article advances Kirks con
tention that Carnegie Tech does 
not prepare its students for a 
professional career. He claims 
that college does not help the 
student to develop independence, 
responsibility, commitment to his 
career, or establishment of social 
value.
This Thursday discussion will be 
in the form of a seminar open to 
all interested Tech students. Dr. 
Alo and Dr. Frederick Young will 
be present to represent the facul
ty. Tom Huff will serve as mod
erator.
Dr. Kirk, a research associate, 
has spent over 13 years as a stu
dent, researcher, and teacher at 
several colleges. In the fall of 1965 
he completed his doctoral thesis, 
Cultural Diversity and Character 
Change at Carnegie Tech.
Mel Klozar, student coordinator 
of tomorrows meeting says that 
the meeting is for the student 
who is concerned about the edu
cation for which he is spending 
both time and money.
A FASCINATING FILM!
 Crist, World Jour. Trib.
"EROTIC SHOCKS!"Cameron, N.Y. NewsovinaCouples
(AN ADULT MOTION PICTURI FROM SWfOtN)
SHOCKING! BOLD!"Weiler, N.Y. Times
BAWDY! Wmsten. N.Y. Post
THISPROPERTY ! CONDEMNED
BOLD FACETS OF AMOUR!
 Weiler. N.Y. Times
"AN EXCITING FILM!
 Wo if, Cue Magazine
'Guild
MURRAY AT BEACON
JA.1-0700
miUHiiumiiuiimiiiriitiiiiiiiiiiiiwiiiiiiniiiiuiiaiuiiiiiiiintHiwrHwmnirnnnniiiifiin.inuunniiiiiimTniiiiHHiintnwiiiiiiuhtinmi.iuuuTuim
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue 
PHONE: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Most Items
?uummnmnmuimDnintnuminnnmiMiTiroHmimiKmmumiwnmmuumnminnnnnmumuniiTMMw>"ww"""
"A Hollywood Misconception"
An American Dream
by Stan Thomas
directed by MAI ZETTERLING 
released by PROMINENT FILMS
DAILY 6, 8, 10.
Sat. and Sun., 2, 4, 6, 8, 10.
Feature times: Saturday and Sunday 
Morgan2:55, 6:20; 9:45. Leather Boys4:35; 8:il0
All Week, Nights: Morgan9:30; Leather Boys7:40.
STUDENTS! 25c Off Regular Admission with 
Tech I.D. Card when presented at Box Office.
ROSS HUNTERSTHE PADReal now TO USE y!t
TECHNICOLOR
15 MINUTES FRQM PITTSBURGH . . . Take Pdrkway East to 
Exit 12: GREENSBURG PIKE: Turn Right, Keep Right at "Y" 
Intersection; Straight thru 3 Lights on Graham Blvd. at 4th 
Light, Turn Left on Frankstown Rd. Proceed T Block to 
Theatre and Park in any of 3 available Lots. (We are 1 
Block below East Hills Shopping Center.)
LA DOLCE VITA
vm-imm mm mm wm m iu wet iw#s sums 
iua be  w w 
"NOW SHOWING"
THREE WEEKS ONLY
Performances
The NAVARI
EASTWOOD 
THEATRE 371-5000
NOW SHOWING THRU TUESDAY!
HOWLINGLY FUNNYWvj Ti l
-Batlty Crow! her. New York Timet
DDTT I I A 1VTTBRILLIANT-Brrndan (ill. The Xfu )<irtrr
TARNcome
AND...RITA TUSHINGHAMI
IN A NEW FILM BY SIONEYJ&fURlE.
[Tire I Page2Cg AR NEGI TH-Wddd RTnIs
I he frustrations of sexual conflict...
come from...
M.W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA
the film that 
shocked the 
critics...
uncensored 
for all 
see!
THE TYPICAL Hollywood movie is an exercise in gloss and 
Elickness, usually done with a bash of pathological bitters, photo
graphed in grainy technicolor with a sound track that is supposed 
to put the viewer in the proper mood with music about as sub
tle as a jack-hammer. One notable exception to this was the film 
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf? One un-notable non-exception is An 
American Dream which opens today at the Gateway Theatre.
THE MOVIE is based on a book by Norman Mailer which I have 
not read and after seeing this film adaption, probably never will. It 
concerns a successful young man with the Medal of Honor for aggres
sive activities during the War who cannot cope with his wife, who 
is unusually aggressive with glasses of liquor and ornamental rocks, 
which she throws at him when he goes to ask her for a divorce. Dur
ing one of their skirmishes, she falls off the penthouse balcony, and 
although he didnt push her, he is technically responsible for her 
death, since he didnt try to save her either. The rest of the plot 
includes the police, the Mafia, Janet Leigh with silver hair, and final
ly the message of the film, something about the American Dream be
ing that evertyhing will turn out all right.
THE SCREENPLAY alternates gutsy dialogue with the kind of 
philosophy you find in a Rogers and Hammerstein song. One se
quence concerning the velocity of a falling body and the veracity of 
the heros statement concerning his motion while the body was fall
ing goes far enough to turn into parody. The acting also turns into 
parody. Stuart Whiteman, the hero, squints a lotthe grander the 
squint, the bigger the emotion; Janet Leigh seems to be playing Peggy 
Lee in Pete Kellys Blues; Eleanor Parker seems to be doing Martha 
from Virginia Woolf, except she throws the booze instead of swilling 
it. Still, Miss Parker is the most interesting character in the movie, 
but she falls off the balcony.
IT SAYS in the credits that the movie was written and directed. 
Its difficult to prove from what follows.
Carnegie Chorus 
Sings Tuesday
The Carnegie Chorus, in con
junction with the Mens Choir of 
St. Pauls Cathedral, will perform 
Requiem by Maurice Durufl on 
the first of November at 8:30 in 
St. Pauls Cathedral.
Mr. Donald Wilkins of Carnegie 
Tech is conducting the Carnegie 
Chorus in rehearsal, while Paul 
Koch, organist at St. Pauls, is con
ducting the mens chorus. Maurice 
Durufl will, however, conduct the 
performance, and his wife, MarieMadeleine Durufle-Chevalier, will 
be the organist. Madame DurufleChevalier will open the concert 
with a 20 minute organ recital in
cluding Mozarts Fantasie in F 
minor and a piece by Charles 
Tournemire, a student of Caesar 
Franck, and teacher to Monsieur 
Durufl.
The performance is open and 
free to the public.
For '67...the best shapesin Pgh.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 26, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 3
Pittsburghs Oldest Tins Jewelers Since I S3 2 
3 FINE STORES
(duive at ^oLert
SONATA .... FROM $100
A diamond solataire that is quite Saucy in appearance. 
An outstanding engagement ring in 18 Kt. White Gold.
Worlds Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budgett
JOHN M. ROBERTS < SON (
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
RED CROSS
Trick or Treal 
Candy Drive
Halloween Night 
Monday, October 31
Call 471-4923 
for information.
-ARROWGrad Support 
From NSF 
Now Available
The National Science Foun
dation will again award ap
proximately 2,300 graduate 
and postdoctoral fellowships 
for advanced study. Applica
tion forms will soon be avail
able from the Office of Grad
uate Studies, Warner Hall 
216. Application may be 
made by any United States 
citizen who is a college sen
ior, a graduate student work
ing toward a degree or a 
postdoctoral student.
The basic stipend will be $2,- 
400 for first year students; $2,600 
for students who have completed 
the equivalent of one year of 
graduate study, but who will re
quire more than one additional 
year to complete the require
ments for doctoral degree; and 
$2,800 for students who will com
plete the requirements for a doc
toral degree within one year. The 
basic post-doctoral stipend is $6,- 
500 annually. Dependency allow
ances and allowances for tuition, 
fees, and limited travel expenses 
will also be provided.
Applicants will be judged solely 
on the basis of ability. They will 
be required to take the Graduate 
Record Examination administer
ed by the Educational Testing 
Service on January 21, 1967r The 
deadlines for applications are De
cember 9 for graduate awards 
and December 12 for postdoctor
al
A button-down in a basket weave. 
(Something old, something new.)
This Arrow shirt gives you best of 
both worlds. (1) A long-pointed 
collar roll in the most authentic 
tradition. (2) A husky-looking 
basket weave that updates 
ordinary oxford. For other 
interesting features, check the 
tapered body; back pleat and 
back collar button. Lots of 
stripes, solids and whites. 
Sanforized labeled. $5.00. 
Bold New Breed from
Opera Workshop Provides 
Performance Opportunities
Since Pittsburgh has only one formal opera company, 
many professional singers and college students are leaving 
in search of a plac to perform. Rudolph Fellner of the Tech 
music department has recently formed an opera workshop 
in cooperation with the Oakland Lyric. Its purpose, said 
Fellner, is to find more work to keep professional singers 
and Tech students in Pittsburgh.
The group presently consists of 
about 20 members, but this num
ber is quite flexible, and anyone 
interested in joining the work
shop should contact Mr. Fellner. 
Since Tech has no place for the 
group to perform, it performs in 
various clubs, schools, and 
churches. So far the groups 
schedule for this year includes a 
performance for the San Fedeles 
Cultural Series and the Wilkinsburg school district.
Its repertoire consists of sev
eral operas, operalogues, a per
formance on the evolution of 
man through music, and, said 
Mr. Fellner, to keep from being 
all longhair, some musicals.
It hope, said Mr. Fellner, 
that eventually well build a 
theatre with an orchestra pit on 
the Tech campus. He was quite 
sure that there is enough inter
est in opera to support the the
atre, but to entice a new audi
ence Mr. Fellner would like to 
have some operas performed in 
the vernacular.
Mr. Fellner was educated in
Only Eaton makes
EATON PAPER CORPORATION, PITTSFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS
Vienna, and began in operas as 
a conductor. When he came to 
America he was associated with 
opera companies in San Francis
co and Chicago and with the 
NBC television opera. He is the 
author of the paperback Opera 
Themes and Plots. Mr. Fellner 
came to Tech as a visiting pro
fessor in the spring of 1964.
fight it.
Get Eatons Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper.
IMistakes dont show. A mis-key completely disappears 
from the special surface. An ordinary pencil eraser lets 
you erase without a trace. So why use ordinary paper? 
Eatons Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy 
weights and Onion Skin. In 100-sheet packets and 500- 
sheet ream boxes. At Stationery Departments.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 26, 1966S
Editorial
Critical Situation
One of the problems plaguing universities located in 
urban areas is that of providing adequate parking facilities, 
and Tech is certainly no exception. Parking facilities that 
were barely adequate four years ago are unable to cope 
with the increased numbers of automobiles on campus. In 
short, the parking problem has become critical, not only for 
students, but for faculty as well.
Although the number of students who commute from 
home has decreased, the number of students living off 
campus has increased (currently 42 percent of the students 
live off campus) and hence the number of cars driven to 
school has increased. Nor does the situation promise to 
get better, for the faculty will increase in size, due to the 
Mellon merger, and hence even greater demand will be 
placed on facilities for faculty parking. In addition, the 
number of students living off campus will certainly in
crease. As an example, the demand for apartment accommo
dations for women will increase, since Colonial Manor will be 
torn down this June.
Hence the time for definite action is at hand. How
ever this can be done only through the active involvement 
of all members of the Tech community, including adminis
tration, faculty, students and staff.
Student Government, as representative of the students, 
has the responsibility of presenting the student viewpoint 
to the administration. In order to do this effectively, Stu
dent Government must actively seek student opinion and 
ideas on parking. Two proposals that havee been made 
the bus system, and the parking garageare viable only 
if they meet the needs of a large portion of their prospec
tive users. The proposed bus system is potentially a sat
isfactory solution in that it will reduce the number of cars 
on campus if students and faculty make use of it. However, 
if inadequate scheduling or excessive costs render it pro
hibitive or less than satisfactory, the system will obvious
ly not achieve its desired effect.
Hence it is important that Student Government de
termine the number of students who would take ad
vantage of the bus system, at given costs and under spe
cific schedules. Similarly, the parking garage proposal is 
financially possible only if students and faculty are willing 
to pay for it. Again it is important to determine whether 
students driving to school will park in such a facility, or 
alternatively, try to park several blocks away, possibly 
for free.
In fact, there are examples of poor administrationstudent communications that have led to the construction 
of facilities that are less than desirable. An example is 
Skibo, our purported student center. Although some stu
dent opinion was sought before it was constructed, the ad
ministration is now considering a new building or addition 
that would provide for some of Skibos shortcomings. In 
addition, only after sufficient student pressure and opin
ion was generated did work begin on the snack bar.
Thus it is of the utmost importance that student 
views be utilized, and further that all students involved be 
given, and take advantage of the opportunity to make 
known their views on the parking problem.
Finally, the ultimate decision and implementation is an 
administrative task. According to R. D. Strathmeyer, VicePresident for Business Affairs, Carnegie Tech will defi
nitely provide parking for all members of the university 
community. A university such as Tech must constantly 
seek to improve its facilities, both physical and academic, 
in order to attract top-quality students and faculty. As 
such, Tech considers parking facilities to be a valuable 
asset to the university. Further, Tech has a legal obliga
tion to provide a specified number of parking spaces for 
each new building on campus. In anticipation of a new 
engineering and science research building, the administra
tion is considering for the proposed parking garage a lo
cation west of Scaife and Hammerschlag Halls, near Pan
ther Hollow. Negotiations have been made with the city 
of Pittsburgh as to financing the endeavor. However the 
city appears reluctant at this time, leaving Tech with the al
ternatives of waiting and continuing negotiations or begin
ning to seek funds in order to build the garage in the near 
future.
Thus two proposals to alleviate the parking problem 
are under consideration; both are contingent, to some ex
tent, on the opinions and needs of those directly involved.
The Tartan exhorts students and faculty to present 
to the administration opinions and additional proposals that 
will urge and enable Tech to alleviate the critical parking 
situation.
NewRegistration 
System To Get 
Faculty Review
Dean Swank has requested 
that any students who had 
problems with the new regis
tration system this fall call 
his office by the first week 
in November.
Early in November, there will 
be a faculty review of the new 
system and Dean Swank wishes 
to take student experience into 
account.
The main problem of the new 
system is mechanical. This year 
students filled only a data form, 
the information on which then 
had to be keypunched for IBM 
use. Because of this, information 
on each student was unavailable 
for about ten days after registra
tion. Under the old system, infor
mation was available the day 
following registration. The ma
jor problem of the old system 
was that the student was re
quired to fill out 13 IBM cards.
In the November meeting, the 
faculty will review the new sys
tem and propose compromises or 
changes.
Readers Write
Senate To Vote 
On Amendments
The Rules Committee of Student 
Senate proposed amendments to 
Section 2D of the Student Gov
ernment Constitution at the Sen
ate meeting last Tuesday. The 
amendments, which deal with al
ternate delegates to Senate, will 
be voted on at next Tuesdays 
meeting. They as follows:
1. Alternate for a given con
stituency shall be those candi
dates from that constituency who 
were not elected to a Senate posi
tion. Alternates shall be rank
ed within a constituency according 
to the number of votes received. 
If there are insufficient alternates 
from a constituency, that member 
from the constituency on Execu
tive Council shall appoint the re
quired number of alternates.
2. Any Senate member who is 
absent from a regular Senate 
meeting three times without an 
excuse from the Vice-President in 
any semester will relinquish his 
seat to the approved alternate.
3. Any Senate member who 
moves out of his constituency shall 
relinquish his seat to the appro
priate alternate.
It has been moved that the third 
section be changed, especially be
cause of freshman representatives 
who might pledge fraternities and 
sororities.
Also, it was requested that stu
dents who wish to post notices on 
the new campus bulletin board 
outside Skibo refrain from stick
ing such notices on the glass 
cover. A key to the bulletin board 
is available at the Skibo informa
tion desk.
Colonial
(Continued from Page 1)
square feet of space, and con
struction costs will be $1,500,000. 
New broadcasting equipment, 
which will enable full color tele
vision, will be purchased at a 
cost of $1,250,000.
Funds for this project are be
ing provided by a grant of $1,-
500.000 from the Richard King 
Mellon Charitable Trusts, match
ing funds from the Ford Founda
tion, and local corporate and 
foundation grants totaling $1,-
500.000 from the WQED capital 
campaign.
The Tartan welcomes responsi
ble comment on any topic. It is 
requested that, from now on, let
ters be signed and that the corre
spondent's year and major be giv
en. Names will be withheld on re
quest.
Shelter Provisions?
Editor, the Tartan:
I have a question which may 
strike the editors of the Tartan 
as foolish and totally irrelevant, 
but it is something that has been 
bothering me. (Actually it only 
bothers me when I hear refer
ences to Red China or the sound 
of a jet flying over head.)
Where are Carnegie Tech stu
dents supposed to go in the event 
of nuclear atack?
This question may sound quite 
remote, but it is something to 
think about and something the 
students should be informed 
about.
Thank you, 
Just Concerned
Greek Competition 
Serious Matter
Editor, the Tartan:
It seems very unfortunate that 
the Tartan, like any other campus 
activity, is plagued with the 
problem of having only a few of 
its members willing to devote the 
necessary time to produce the 
best newspaper possible. How
ever, I do not feel that this is an 
excuse for not requiring a mini
mum of competence in the final 
product. The fact that Tau Delta 
Phi was given credit on your 
front page for placing second in 
the Homecoming competition has 
brought nothing but embarrasment to and anger from the par
ties involved in this error. Delta 
Tau Delta won the second place 
trophy and definitely deserves to 
receive all the credit due them 
for this hard-earned achievement. 
For those who are unaware, com
petition within the Fraternity 
system is regarded with great 
seriousness, and we hope that it 
will be treated appropriately in 
the future.
Roger Blau 
President, Tau Delta Phi
Kiltie Band 
Campus Mainstay
Editor, the Tartan:
We hear and read a good deal 
about varsity athletics, fraternity
activities, and intramural sports 
on this campus, and we see credit 
lauded upon almost every club 
and gathering except one, which 
is a mainstaiy of our campus. I 
am referring to the Kiltie Band.
I ftel that many people will agree 
with me that last Suturdays pa
rade and half-time show were a 
real credit to the entire company. 
Enough said. How about giving 
at least one-fifth as much pub
licity to a group which practices 
as much as five hours a week as 
you devote to everyone else who 
does something newsworthy on 
the campus. %
Disgruntled Band Admirer
Phi Kap Display 
A Night Show
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to comment on the 
picture of the Phi Kappa Theta 
display published in the last is
sue of the Tartan. After the many 
long and grueling hours put into 
the display, the eight miles of ^ 
wire, the 2000 light bulbs, the 170 
individually coated IBM cards, 
and a multitude of relays, it would 
only have been decent of you to 
take the picture at night, for, I 
hope you do realize, this was a 
night booth. If the second-place 
Delts could have their display 
photographed at night, why not 
the Phi Kaps? Just look again 
at the published picture, and you * 
will see that a great injustice has 
been done these boys and their 
hard work.
And, Tau Delta Phis Tech 
Can-Can the Grovers did not win 
second-place trophy as you have 
printed on the front page!
Name withheld by request
Insurance
Student health insurance 
forms are available in the 
Cashiers Office in Baker Hall 
until next Monday, October 31. 
George K. Brown, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs, urges all students, 
especially those who now have 
no health and accident insur
ance coverage, to take advan
tage of this policy. Coverage 
has been extended to take care 
of all forms of illness and in
jury.
i>a. carnegie techIIIIIIIITARTAIMI
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor...............................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor............................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..............................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor........................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor....................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor............................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor.................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager..................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.......Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor .....................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor...............................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor...........Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.......Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Moses, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Tom Moore, Richard Morrison, Jane Riva, Diane Samuels, Joanne 
Schneider, Louise Schwerin, Jean Siegal, Rich Steffens, Joan 
Sztyga, Selina Wang, Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvatti, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausler, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, William Opfermann, Leonard 
Wanetik, Jane Merck.
Annual Subscription Rat: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.


---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 26, 1966CARNEGIE TECH TARTANPage 5
TART AN/BUREAll OF PLACEMENTS 
Summer Job Survey
Name (optional)___, ________________Dept.______________
Year Completed as of 6/66_____________
Employer__________________________Location__________________
Assignment________________________Weeks worked_________
Weekly salary $________Was job related to interests?______
Was assignment challenging?___________________'___________
Would you work for company as permanent employee?____
Recommend it to others?___________________________-_________
Source of info about job or company______________________
iDid you use Bureau of Placements?_____How?______________
Was staff helpful?_______ Information adequate?
| If not, why?_______________________________________________
Suggested improvements____________________________________
Would you like more information about summer/permanent
I
jobs in the Tartan?__________________________________________
Please attach additional comments, suggestions, or 
answers to above questions. Thank you.
TPKA
By John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Emotional Orgies
The vicious presidential campaign of 1964 has apparently set 
the standards for the major political races this year. The guberna
torial contest in California quickly comes to mind with accusations 
of extremism and bitter personal attacks by Reagan and Brown. 
But for pure vindictiveness the clash between Raymond Shafer and 
Milton Shapp for the governorship of Pennsylvania is unrivaled.
We remember all too well the tactics used in 1964 as the Demo
crats pinned the trigger-happy label on Goldwater, and the Republi
cans challenged the moral and integrity of Johnson and his crew. 
The public unfortunately bought the Democratic line fortified by 
images of Goldwater tearing up Social Security cards and dropping 
tombs on daisy-picking children. Somehow the making of the mys
terious. Johnson fortune and the unmaking of his two trusted aids 
(Bobby Baker and Walter Jenkins) werent important enough to 
politically-hardened voters. Sure hes crooked, but arent they all? 
Neither party had much to be proud of, and serious discussions of 
the major problems facing the country were avoided.
Compare the 1964 election with the relatively clean KennedyNixon battle four years previously. Although it had its share of in
nuendo and low blows, it was a political classic and established the 
TV debate as an important tool. Public debate became an issue in 
practically all campaigns after that borough chairman to Congres
sional elections, until Johnson refused the challenge in 1964.
After looking at the Shafer-Shapp debate, we feel that it was prob
ably lucky we didnt see a Johnson-Gold water confrontation. The 
Shafer-Shapp show was notable for the skill each candidate showed 
in answering questions about such issues as the Milk Price Commis
sions and free higher education with personal insults directed at his 
opponent. For those who missed the debate we present the follow
ing fictional version (we didnt have the stomach to look up the 
actual exchanges):
QUESTION FROM NEWSMAN: Do you think we need a 
stronger anti-litter law?
MR. SHAFER: Yes. and while were on the subject I would 
like to point out the fact that my opponent has run many small 
businesses into the ground in order to build up his own business.
MR. SHAPP: This great and beautiful Commonwealth of ours 
which has done so much for me needs a stronger anti-litter law. 
What we dont need is the daughter of the Lt. Governor buying 
gasoline for her car with State funds as the daughter of my op
ponent has done on one or two occasions.
And so went the debate with Shafer and Shapp doing everything 
but sounding on each others mothers.
The paid radio political spots are continuing in this ill-mannered 
and embarassing direction which is really an insult to voters. How
ever, if all the debris is removed and the issues searched for, we 
think Shafer comes out on top. Shapp is promising much, in fact prac
tically everything for nothing. The Pittsburgh Press in their editorial 
last Sunday put it this way:
. . . If theres anythinghowever meritorious or frivolous 
ycu can think of that Shapp hasnt promised, let him know be
fore election day. Chances are hell promise that too. Without 
raising your taxes, of course.
Shafer represents a continuing of the Scranton programs, a de< idod alternative to the Shapp give-away bazaar.
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendel
MUSIC . . .
YM & WHA Musical Society Series, Recital by Rosalyn Tureck, Bach 
pianist. Kaufmann Auditorium, 31 S. Bellefield Ave. 8:40 pm, 
Oct. 26.
Duquesne University: Symphonic Band. Concert on Mall. Donald McCathren, conductor (in case of rain, School of Music). 1:15 pm, 
Oct. 27. Free.
Wagner-Bund Music Company: Emil Bund Commemorative Master 
Class in performance of Bach by Rosalyn Tureck. Antonian Hall 
of Mt. Mercy College. Oct. 27, 4 pm. Free.
Tosca, by Puccini: Soloists: Dorothy Kirsten, Barnabee Marti, Manuel 
Ausensi, Earl Corwin, Robert Falk. Conducted by Richard Karp. 
Syria Mosque, Oct. 27, 8:15 pm, and Oct. 29.
Pittsburgh Symphony: Robert, Gaby, Jean Casadesus, piano soloists. 
William Steinberg, conductor. Syria Mosque. Oct. 28, 8:40 pm, and 
Oct. 30, 3:10 pm.
Organ Recital by Robert Lord. Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Building, 
University of Pittsburgh. Nov. 1, 12 noon. Free.
DRAMA . . .
A Mans a Man, John Hancock Slapstick and 1920s songs rolled into 
a black comedy of terrors 8:30 pm, Tuesday through Friday; Sat
urday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. Information at 621- 
4445, Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. Admission 
$3.30.
Streetcar Named Desire, John Hancock. Tennessee Williams haunt
ing story of a beautiful woman betrayed by love. 8:30 pm, Tues
day through Friday; Saturday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 
pm. Hamlet Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse. Information at 621- 
4445. Admission $3.30. Starts Oct. 21.
EXHIBITS ....
Chinese Art Form, Collection of Walter Reed Hovey. Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, 440 Forbes Ave, Treasurer Room. On con
tinuous' display. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Saturday; 2 to
5 pm, Sunday.
Photographs by Harold Corsini. Pittsburgh Artist Series on the third 
floor at Gallery K, Carnegie Museum. Now through Sunday.
Three Self-Taught Pennsylvania Artist: Edward Hicks, John Kane, 
Horace Pippin. Third floor galleries, Carnegie Museum. Now 
through Dec. 4.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 N. Negley Ave. Exhibit of work by Vir
gil Cantini. Now through Nov. 16.
Paintings, jewelry and stitchery by Audrey Buonocore. Art Gallery, 
26th floor, Cathedral of Learning, University of Pittsburgh. Now 
through Monday. 9 am to 5pm, Monday through Friday.
Paintings, crafts, and sculpture by local artists, Gallery Downstairs, 
5413 B Walnut Street. 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday though Satur
day; 7-9 pm Wednesday and Friday; 1-4 pm Sunday.
Ringling Brothers and Barunum and Bailey Circus, Civic Arena. To
day through Sunday, Wednesday through Friday, 8 pm; Satur
day, 10:30 am, 2:30 and 8 pm; Sunday 2:00 pm and 6 pm. Tickets 
at Civic Arena, $2.00, $2.50 $3.00, and $3.75.
Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
MATHEMATICIANS
PHYSICISTS
ELECTRICALENGINEERS
LINCOLN LABORATORY
has openings for a 
limited number of en
gineers, physicists and 
mathematicians.
LINCOLN LABORATORY,
a research center of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, is engaged in 
research and develop
ment in advanced elec
tronics, with emphasis on 
applications to national 
defense and space 
exploration.
A LABORATORY REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL INTERVIEW APPLICANTS
OCTOBER 28th
CONSULT THE CAMPUS PLACEMENT 
OFFICE IN ADVANCE
LINCOLN
LABORATORY
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
BOX 21  LEXINGTON 
MASSACHUSETTS 02173
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
DOESIN SUGAR CUBES
SPOIL THE TASTE OF COFFEE????
KNOW
THE
TRUTH
FIVE LEVELS 
OF 
CONSCIOUSNESS 
EXPANSION
HEAR
THE
FACTS
aboutby
Dr. Timothy Leary, Ph.D.
RECORDED LIVE AT THE CASTALIA FOUNDATION - DR. LEARY'S CENTER FOR 
RESEARCH ON CONSCIOUSNESS-EXPANDING DRUGS. 
SEND $3.00 PER RECORD CHECK O R MONEY ORDERS ONLY. WE PAY POSTAGE!
SEND ME.............COPIES OF DR. TIMONTHY LEARY'S LP RECORDING ON LSD
ENCLOSED IS A CHECK OR MONEY ORDER FOR $............................
TO: PIXIE RECORDS, Inc.
1619 BROADWAY, ROOM 602 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019
MONO-LONG PLAYING 
(33-1/3 rpm)
NAME.....
ADDRESS. 
CITY.........
(Please Print)
STATE..................ZIP.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 26, 1966
LEWISSales-Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211 115 OAKLAND AVE
Rust offers you unusual opportunities because of its growth and diversity. 
The Company has performed more than 10,000 contracts in 48 states and 
22 foreign countries for most industries and government agencies.
Mr. Word Speer wm ^ Qn rampiiq Thursday, Nov. 3, 1966
to interview interested civil, mechanical, electrical (power option), and archi
tectural engineering students. Make appointment through placement office.
Get 
closer 
with a 
HONDA
Closer to class. Closer to the fraternity house. 
And a lot closer to the opposite sex. Honda 
offers you aril these advantages plus economy: 
price, upkeep and insurance are all irresistably 
low. Why not join the crowd?
Free Brochure: Write American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Department C-4, Box 50, Gardena, California  1966 AHM
Wednesday, October 26
9-4:30Placements, Skibo 40, 54, 
55, 56.
9-12School Volunteers, Wherrett Room
1:30-4:30  Computation Center, 
Skibo 45
4Cross Country. CIT vs. Waynesburg, Schenley Park course.
4:30Educational Services Inc. 
Special lecture series on the 
new social studies, sponsored 
by the department of history. 
All interested persons are in
vited. GSIA auditorium.
5:70-7:30Delta Delta Delta, Ski
bo 45.
6:30Flying Club Meeting; 
Ground School, Ph 126B.
7American Society of Civil En
gineering; Associate Member 
Forum, PH 100.
7-8Sigma Kappa, Skibo 40
7-8:30Beginning Guitar, Skibo 56.
7:30Tech Student Oratory. Dr.
Walter Wagoner, Executive Di
rector of the Rockefeller Fund 
for Theology, Princeton, N. J. 
will speak on strength and 
weakness of both Protestant and 
Catholic systems of theology and 
life. Higlander Room.
8The Romance of the Woodcut. Lecture by Norman Kent, 
sponsorded by the Department 
of Graphic Arts. All interested 
people are invited. Breed Hall, 
MMCC.
8:10The Rivals  Carnegie 
Theater College of Fine Arts.
8:15American Chemical Society, 
physical-ignorganic group. Wherrett Room.
ASK PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR BOOKLET, Your Doorway to Diversified Engineering and Contract
ing, which describes in detail the career opportunities available at Rust.
Whats Doing % 
On Campus
by Joanne Schneider
Tech Benefactor 
Roy Hunt Dies
You are invited to discuss your career opportunities in
THE RUST ENGINEERING COMPANY
PITTSBURGH, PA. (Headquarters)  BIRMINGHAM, ALA.  CALHOUN, TENN.
Construction Projects The World Over
So Where Do You Get Shelving Around Here?
BROWNS HILL BUILDERS SUPPLY CO. 
that's where. Off Beech wood Blvd. 
towards the Homestead Bridge in 
Squirrel Hill. They're terrific there. 
They have several kinds of boards 
and display many shelf brackets and 
brick. They even cut to your size. 
Who put this ad in? . . . THEY DID!
. . .421-3500.
ENGINEERS
Interested in ENGINEERING of INDUSTRIAL PLANT FACILITIES 
or FIELD ENGINEERING on CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Thursday, October 27
9-4:30Placements. Skibo 40, 54, 
55, 56.
12:30-1:20Students are People. 
YMCA faculty luncheon discus
sion series. Skibo 105-106.
1:30-4:30  Computation Center, 
Skibo 45.
4:30-6^30Faculty Party. Faculty 
Lounge.
7-11A Phi O. Skibo 40.
8Theology Class  Continuation 
of the discussion of Teilhard de 
Chardin and Cardinal Newman. 
Skibo 55.
8Viet Wives Club, Skibo 45.
8:10The Rivals, Carnegie 
Theater, CFA.
Friday, October 28
9-4:30Placements. Skibo 40, 54, 
55, 56.
1:30-4:30 Computation Center, Ski
bo 45.
6:30-9:00 TCF, Skibo 39.
6:45-8:15 Y-dancing, Highlander 
Room
7:30-10 Friday Y-Cine Series, PH 
(Continued on Page 7)
Roy Hunt, director and former 
president of the Aluminum Com
pany of North America, died Fri
day, October 21, of a heart attack.
Hunts contribution of $2,800,000 
made possible in 1960 the con
struction of a new Carnegie Tech 
library which now bears his name. 
Born in 1882 in New Hampshire, 
Hunt lived most of his life in 
Pittsburgh. He was educated at 
Shadyside Academy and Yale Uni
versity. In 1902, he became a ma
chinists helper in the New Ken
sington plant of the firm his fath
er and six other industrialists had 
formed in 1888. By 1907 he had 
become assistant superintendent 
of the plant and by 1908, super
intendent. He became president 
in 1928. His contribution to the 
war effort earned him a citation 
after World War II.
Hunt was preceded in death by 
his wife, Rachael McMasters Mil
ler Hunt in 1963.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 26, 1966CARNEGIE TECH TARTANPage 7
Tartan
Photographers
Weekly meetings of the Tar
tan Photography Staff will 
be held on Mondays at 4:30 
in room 50, Skibo. Please at
tend.
Fifty years ago we only made aeroplanes.
(See whats happening now!)
Offer foiland part-time teaching 
opportunities to career ballroom 
dancing teachers.
Instructors are paid by the hours 
they teach and a beginner may earn 
from $65-$85 a week.
An established teacher may work 
up to $125-$175 weekly.
A teacher can increase his pay
check through bonuses, sales and job 
promotion.
Opportunities for the future are 
bright as a teacher, dance director, 
supervisor, manager of an self-em
ployed franchise.
Experienced teachers placed imme
diately Inexperienced trained even
ings free.
APPLY IN PERSON ONLY 
2-9 P.M. WEEKDAYS 
136 SIXTH STREET 
(Across from Roosevelt Hotel)
NASA Lunar Orbiter
Creativity and 
Craftsmanship in Diamonds
 BRILLIANT
 MARQUISE
 PEAR 
SHAPED
When you give her a diamond 
choose it wisely wi th the
professional help of |__J. Boss
Company. Mr. Boss will person
ally explain - the important 
points you must consider  
when youre selecting that 
diamond ring.
To further assist you 
write or stop for your 
Free booklets The 
Day You Buy a Diamond 
and Gi ft Catalog' 
Onceyou decide on your diamond 
L.J. Boss Company will design 
your ring especially for you with 
no additional charge.
Doors Open 
To Dancers
Arthur Murray Studios
New Boeing 747
Boeing 727 Trijet
Boeing Supersonic Transport design
*
Boeing-Vertol Helicopter
USN Hydrofoil Patrol Craft
US A F Minuteman H
Campus Interviews, Monday & Tuesday, Oct. 31 & Nov. 1
In 1916 The Boeing Companys career was 
launched on the wings of a small seaplane. 
Its top speed was 75 mph.
Now, half a century later, we can help you 
launch your career in the dynamic environ
ment of jet airplanes, spacecraft, missiles, 
rockets, helicopters, or even seacraft.
Pick your spot in applied research, design, 
test, manufacturing, service or facilities 
engineering, or computer technology. You 
can become part of a Boeing program-inbeing, at the leading edge of aerospace tech
nology. Or you might want to get in on the 
ground floor of a pioneering new project.
Youll work in small groups where initiative 
and ability get maximum exposure. And if
you desire an advanced degree and qualify, 
Boeing will help you financially with its 
Graduate Study Program at leading univer
sities and colleges near company facilities.
Often it will be sheer hard work. But we 
think youll want it that way when youre* 
helping to create something uniquewhile 
building a solid career. Visit your college 
placement office and schedule an interview 
with our representative. Boeing is an equal 
opportunity employer.
Divisions: Commercial Airplane  Missile A Information Systems  Space  Supersonic Transport  Vertol  Wichita  Also, Boeing Scientific Research Laboratories
Whats Doing on Campus
(Continued from Page 6)
100. Fail Safe, Y-members 25c 
and non-members 50c.
8:10 The Rivals, Carnegie Thea
ter, College of Fine Arts
9-12 Ceilidh, Wherret Room.
Saturday, October 29
10-12  Undergradute Advisory 
Committee Meeting, Wherret 
Room.
10-1Student U.N., Skibo 40.
11Football Luncheon, Highland
er Room.
1:30Football home game, Tech 
vs. Thiel College.
6Hillel, Wherret Room
8:10  The Rivals, Carnegie 
Theater, CFA.
Sunday, October 30
11Methodist Service, Skibo 39.
9, 10:30 and 12Mass, Scaife Au
ditorium.
11-3Scotch n Soda, Skibo 54.
3-5Science Fiction Club, Skibo 
40.
Tuesday, November 1
9-4:30Placements, Skibo 40, 54, 
55, 56.
11:30Assembly, Skibo Ballroom.
4:30-5:45Rabbi Rubenstein, Ski
bo 45.
4:30Pan Hellenic Council, Skibo 
40.
4:30  Student Senate Meeting, 
Wherrett Room.
6-8Chi Omega, Skibo 46.
7-8:30Bridge, Skibo 56.
7:30-9Photography Class, Skibo 
55.
7:30Explorers Club, Skibo 45.
8-11Folk Dancing Club, Skibo 
Ballroom.
Monday, October 31
9-4:30Placements, Skibo 40, 54, 
55, 56.
4:30  Tartan Photography Staff 
Meeting, Skibo 50.
7-8:30  Course in Innvestments, 
Skibo 40.
7 and 9:10Dorm movie, MoonSpinners. Wherret Room.
Boeing 737 Twinjet
Engineers & Scientists:NASA Saturn V

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, October 26, 1966
Tech Runs Record To
4-1 in Downing F & M
The Tech Tartans returned once again to the winning column when they inched out 
a 7-0 victory over the Diplomats of Franklin and Marshall. The win marked the first time 
since 1959 that the Tartans have been able to shut-out an opponent and also insured the 
Tartans of their winningest season since 19 59, when they were 7-0-1.
The Tartans offense appeared unable to sustain a drive and their lone touchdown 
was set up by the defense. Laniy Getto, playing in his linebacker position, intercepted a
Jim Smith pass early in the third ~
Placement...
quarter on the Tech 20 and re
turned it 67 yards to the F & M 
13. Quarterback Tom Hubka then 
tossed a pass to Joe Cherneay at 
the four-yard line, and, on the 
next play, Getto now playing in 
his fullback position, plowed in
to the end zone for the touchdown. 
Cherneay kicked the extra point 
and the Tartans had all that they 
needed for the victory.
Early Drives Stall
The first time they had the ball, 
Tech moved from their own 29 to 
the F & M 18 before their drive 
stalled. Both teams traded the ball 
back and fourth with neither team 
mounting a serious drive until 
the Diplomats took possesion on 
the Tech 43 after a punt late in 
the second quarter. The F & M 
drive caried them all the way 
to the Tech one-yard line, but the 
half ended and the game remain
ed scoreless.
Most of the action came in the 
last 90 seconds of the second half. 
The Tartans were in control of 
the ball on their own 42 and need
ed only to run out the clock, but 
a mixup in the backfield resulted 
in a fumble, which F & Ms A1 
Stone recovered. The Tartan deRifle Team Opens 
Season With Win
The Tartan varsity rifle team 
started the 1966-67 season with a 
bang Saturday. They pulled off a 
triple victory over the opposition 
from St. Francis, Pitt, and Indiana 
Pa.). The match was shot at 
Pitt.
High men for the Tech team 
were: Ted Mankovich, Bruce McKelvy, Leighton Westlake, Rich 
Damberg, and Fred Klein. Hie 
team is coached by Capt. J. Steinbach. The next match is Novem
ber 5 at Allegheny.
Harriers Face 
Waynesburg In 
Home Tilt Today
The cross-country team faces its 
toughest opponent today at 4 pm 
as Waynesburg comes to the 
Schenley Park Course. Last year 
Waynesburg broke the Tartans 
43-meet winning streak by beat
ing the Tartans at Waynesburg. 
This year Tech hopes to return 
the favor and stop Waynesburgs 
mounting streak.
The Waynesburg team led by 
sophomore Doug Krouse posed a 
strong challenge to Techs 5-year 
undefeated home record. Krouse 
now holds many of the areas 
course records and has a very 
strong team behind him.
Tech, undefeated this year, is 
led by co-captains R. Cairns and 
H. Burkholder, and by sophomore, 
B Flynn. Techs hopes are hin
dered by the fact that senior Ken 
Phillips, an experienced runner 
and tough competitor has, been 
sick for the last week.
fense held tough on the first three 
downs and drove the Diplomats 
back to the 47, but on fourth 
down quarterback D. J. Korns 
passed to Max Schnellbaugh at the 
Tech 25. Kons passed again and 
moved the ball to the Tech nine, 
but, on a third down play, he 
fumbled and Ron Horn recovered 
for the Tartans with only 15 sec
onds remaining.
F A M Regain Ball
In running what appeared to be 
the final play of the game, Hubka 
handed off to Chuck Zak, but guard 
Any Slipperly stole the ball from 
Zak and once again the Diplomats 
were threatening. F & M attempt
ed three passes for the touch
down, but all of them fell incom
plete and the clock ran out for the 
Tech victory.
The Tartans now stand 4-1 and 
will face Thiel next week in the 
final home game of the season. 
Thiel lost last week to Washing
ton and Jefferson, 17-6.
Statistics
TechF&M
14first downs7
88yards rushing60
111yards passing69
12-33passes7-24
0had intercepted1
2fumbles lost1
9-24.2punts10-36.3
Score byQuarter
Tech0 07 07
F & M*0 00 00
(Continued from Page 1) 
mer job information on a open 
stack basis for review by stu
dents, this method has become 
inefficient.
Therefore, in cooperation with 
the Bureau of Placements, the 
Tartan is conducting a Summer 
Job Survey. The information col
lected will be used both to im
prove the services of the Place
ment Bureau, and to advise em
ployers on how they might im
prove their summer jobs. The 
results of the poll will be print
ed in the Tartan.
See Page 5 for Questionnaire
Students are requested to com
plete and drop off at their ques
tionnaire at boxes located in Skibo Cafeteria, Baker Hall en
trance, Skibo Information Desk, 
MMCC entrance, Hunt Library 
desk, Bureau of Placements, 
Deans Office  CFA, Morewood 
Gardens desk, and GSIA Lobby. 
They may also be submitted 
through Campus Mail to the Bu
reau of Placements.
Additional blanks are provided 
at the above locations. It is re
quested that all questionnaires 
be posted before Friday, Nov. 4, 
in the boxes provided, and drop
ped off at the Bureau in Suite 10, 
Skibo or sent through campus 
mail after that date. Comments 
or expanded answers to the ques
tions are welcome.
A drawing for $10 worth of 
merchandise from the Tech book
store will be made from ques
tionnaires completed and sub
mitted by Friday, Nov. 4. The 
name of the winner will be print
ed in the Nov. 16 Tartan.
The Foul Line
by LARRY SKON
Tartan Sportt Editor
Instead of writing anything of my own this week, I have elected 
to print the following article concerning the behavior of many intra
mural athletes. The article was written by Jim Lipman, one of the 
writers of I.M. Review, who is also a part-time referee in the I.M. 
League.
At this point, a few words about the intramural officiating are 
in order. It is one thing for a member of a team to tell a referee that 
he has missed a call. However, going over to one of the officials and 
saying to him, After the game you had better watch it, Im out to get 
you, is both unnecessary and downright disgusting.
Its time that a few people remembered that the I.M. officials 
are not highly skilled and well-paid college referees. They are just 
representatives from other teams who try to add order in what would 
otherwise be 32 minutes of arguments. Harassing or threatening the 
referee only adds to the confusion and disorder of a close game.
If the officiating of a game is genuinely poor, a protest filed with 
the Intramural Board will get careful consideration. Temper outbursts 
on the field of play can only lead to 15-yard penalties and eventually 
the hot head being thrown out of the game.
Between Classes or at Study Break }-SCOTTY'SI
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA7918 PENN AVENUE J 
1VMMMmi.
How To Watch A
Cross-Country Meet
by Don Baer
CROSS COUNTRY COURSE
Schenley Park Course
One of the most noticeable things about cross-country 
is a complete lack of student interest. Because cross-country 
is so exciting it must be assumed that any lack of interest 
is due to some ignorance of the sport. A basic part of en
joying any sport is being able to see. Here is your guide 
to a cross-country meet.
There are three methods of 
watching a cross country meet 
choose one: a) running b) walk
ing c) driving If a) go to A1 else 
if b) to A2 else to A3:
Ailthis is not the most com
mon choiceDirections: Dress in 
gym clothes, bring map of course 
with you, wait at top of Flag
staff Hill and join runners as they 
go by. Good Luck. (Next weeks 
Tartan will have the results.
A2this is the most common 
choice or circumstance  Direc
tions: Be at Flagstaff for start of 
race. Walk to two-mile mark by 
crossing Schenley Drive and head
ing west (towards Oakland), pass 
the Conservatory and turn left on 
the first dirt road. You may have 
the pivilege of hearing the Pipers 
as the runners go by. If you have 
walked fast enough.) After all 
runners have passed, head back 
for the finish.
A-3this is the most popular 
choice  Directions: (Driving the 
course is not recommended). Go 
to point four and walk down the 
hill and see runners going to the 
two-mile mark. Watch them re
turn at point four or five. After 
the first runners passes, you have 
four minutes to get to the finish. 
Points of Interest:
1 ) FLAGSTAFF HILLthe race 
begins and ends here. Most run
ners hate the uphill start.
2) KILLER HILLthis is the
first mean or tough hill run
ners meet. Often you can hear 
cries of anguish from opposing 
runners.
3) TWO-MILE MARKthe first 
runers arrive here in about 11 
minutes or less. They may look 
fresh, but they have just run one 
mile down hill. They now go up 
that hill.
4) T H R E E-MILE-MARK:run
ners have just finished running 
up hill for one mile. They look 
tired (dead tired). Time is ap
proximately 16 minutes. Tech 
runners usually gain on the hill.
5) COBBLESTONE HILL  this 
hill was included in the course 
to discourage all uninspired run
ners. It works!
6) GOLF COURSEa free down 
hill to home. Notice smiles on all 
runners faces.
Intra-City I. M. 
Game Planned
The Circle K Club of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh' is acting as 
coordinator for a proposed intra
city Fraternal Football Champion
ship game. Tentative agreement, 
pending a final draft of the rules, 
has been secured from the coun
cils at Tech, Pitt, and Duquesne. 
All proceeds from the game will 
go to charity.
ATTENTION! 
MEN UNDER 25
Sentry reports good news (at 
last) about car insurance savings 
for men under 25. Call today to 
find out how 20 minutes of your 
time may save you up to $50 or 
maybe even more.
DAN DONAHUE
5702 Hilltop Avenue 
795-1393SENTRY. Jl INSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals Sentry Life
