The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 5____________________________CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA._________TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945
Years First All School Dance 
Proves an Outstanding Success
The Autumn Frolic, first all-school dance of the year, was a great 
success. Student Council, which sponsored the dance, certainly provided 
a full $1.80 worth of fun and entertainment.
Jimmy Kaye and his orchestra  imported all the way from Cleveland 
 provided the music. He played several request numbers including Fight 
for the Glory of Carnegie and Happy Birthday for Beta Sigs Dave. 
The P.A. system didnt work for the first part of the evening so the vocalist
Techites Frolic at Autumn Frolic.
Guild Dance Set 
For Sat., Nov. 17?
Carnegies first dress affair of 
the fall social season will be held in 
the Mens Gymnasium on November 
17 under the sponsorship of the 
Womens Guild. Brad Hunts or
chestra has been secured for this 
semi-formal function, which, as a 
highlight of the Tech social calen
dar, should be a must in every 
Tech girls social life. The dance 
will be from 9:00 until 1:00.
The Womens Guild, in planning 
this affair, has made it a girl dates 
boy dance, with plans for the girls 
to ask the boys. So, girls, here is 
your chance to grab a date with that 
good-looking guy that you have 
been eyeing since registration. 
The girls should extend the invita
tions and should buy the tickets, 
leaving flowers and other incident
als to the boy.
The work on the dance is going 
ahead with great diligence although 
full particulars cannot at this time 
be disclosed. It has been under
stood that there are some very elab
orate plans being made to assure the 
success of this function and cause it 
to be one every Tech student will 
remember. It is also rumored that 
-thecommittee planning the dance 
has a trick up its sleeve which will 
add to the interest and general en
joyment for all present; but likewise 
this must remain a secretat least 
for awhile.
The price, incidentally, for you 
girls who are unaccustomed to buy
ing the tickets, is $2.40 per couple, 
including the tax.
Department of Drama 
Receives Scholarship
A new scholarship fund has been 
established in the Department of 
Drama at Carnegie Tech by the 
family and friends of Norman 
Apell, who was killed in action in 
Normandy in August, 1944. Apell 
was a talented student in the de
partment when he entered the serv
ice.
Known as The Norman Apell 
Memorial Scholarship, the award 
will be made annually to the mem
ber of the senior class in the De
partment of Drama who has made 
the greatest contribution to the de
partment, taking into account nat
ural talent, professional standards, 
and personal relations and influence.
The first award was made to Mary 
Laura Wood, of Sackville, New 
Brunswick, Canada, at the opening 
of the Drama Departments current 
production, The Romantic Young 
Lady. Harold J. Apell, father of 
Norman, came from New York to 
make the presentation.
Notice
There will be a meeting for all 
those interested in working on the 
business staff of the Technical, in the 
Technical office at the Carnegie 
Union, at 5:00 P.M., Thursday, No
vember 8, 1945.
Freshman Fun Night 
Will Bring Penalties 
To Wayward Fosh
Freshman all over campus are 
currently heard shouting Hooray! 
for their hazing period is almost 
over; however, Fun Night, the cli
max, still is in the offing. It will be 
held on November 9, at 8:30, in the 
Mens Gym.
The Freshmen Regulations Com
mittee is in charge of the evenings 
program. First the roll call will be 
taken by alphabetical booths. All 
freshmen are required to attend in 
full regalia, caps and ties to be spe
cific. The happy students who have 
passed (successfully) that night
mare, the regulations exam, will re
ceive Tech buttons to announce the 
fact to the world. Next, the bad chil
dren who have not abided by the 
laws laid down by the gentle and 
considerate regulations committee 
will be called on to join in a Spike 
Jones orchestra and play Tech 
songs. Each culprit will also have 
a penalty to perform. By ten oclock 
all this will be over, and everyone 
will dance till twelve. Freshmen, 
however, are not required to stay 
after ten. There will be no admission 
charge.
The following people have been 
called up before court, and some of 
them will undoubtedly perform on 
Fun Night: Nadine Henry, Francis 
Clark, Shirley Christjohn, Vincent 
Benya, Walter Stelley, Joanne Barr, 
Pauline Specht, Andrew Cambol, R. 
A. Plender, Bashie Burnside, 
Audrey Green, Ellene Milie, Jean 
Orwesher, Ken Reefe, Ann Bach, 
and Margery Polinsky. Names of 
other offenders will be posted on 
the bulletin board in Skibo.
Faculty Contributes 
To Memorial Funds
A contribution has been made by 
the faculty to the Faculty Memorial 
Scholarship Fund in memory of Pro
fessor William E. Mott, dean of the 
College of Engineering from 1916 to 
1933. This fund which has been es
tablished to perpetuate the memory 
of deceased faculty members is 
maintained by contributions from 
the faculty and from former stu
dents and friends of members in or
der that their spirit may live on and 
that their service may continue in 
death as in life.
Contributions to this fund are not 
limited to the faculty; anyone wish
ing to do something in memory of a 
teacher who meant much to him 
during his college years may join 
the faculty in helping to create 
a worthy memorial to men and 
women who gave years of devoted 
service to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Notice
The tryouts for cheerleading will 
be held at five oclock on Wednes
day, November 7, in the womens 
gym. All who are interested should 
try to be there.
YM&YWCA Conferenc 
Held on Tech Campus
The Carnegie Tech campus was 
the scene of the Student Conference 
Movement of the Y.M & Y.W.C.A. 
Students from this region of West
ern Pennsylvania were delegates to 
the Conference, and besides the 
host schools of Carnegie Tech, Pitt, 
and PCW, students of California 
STC, Geneva, Indiana Teachers, Mt. 
Meryc, and Waynesburg were in at
tendance.
The conference opened Friday 
evening at the Carnegie Union with 
an address by Rev. W. H. Vernon 
Smith on What is the Christian 
Faith. This was concluded with a 
worship program.
In keeping with the theme, Has 
Faith a Place in Reconstruction, 
Rev. Smith again addressed the Con
ference Saturday morning. The 
afternoon, following a lunch at the 
First Baptist Church, was devoted to 
planning for the World Student 
Service Fund, an organization that 
raises money from students in all 
countries to aid students in coun
tries where rehabilitation is needed. 
Student panels were conducted Sat
urday evening and were followed 
with discussion groups.
The closing services were held 
Sunday morning with another group 
of discussions. Students of Califor
nia S.T.C. conducted the final wor
ship service, held in the Little The
ater.
Of the 128 students attending the 
conference, 27 were registered from 
Carnegie. Mr. Rollin Davis, execu
tive secretary of the Carnegie Y 
Cabinet, was the leader of the Tech 
delegation, and Jeanne Norris, pres
ident of C.W.C.A. was in charge of 
the student committee.
could not sing, but by intermission 
time it was fixed and the dancers 
discovered that the singer was quite 
good.
At intermission a group of dramats under the direction of Casey 
Stine provided a very good enter
tainment. Judy Lambert started the 
show by singing I Want a Primi
tive Man dedicated to Dr. Dawes. 
Ruth Pivirotto then did a can-can 
while Pat Falkenhain sang Oui, 
Oui, Marie. Renee Orkin sang Embraceable You and, as an encore, 
Put Your Arms Around Me. Next 
Iris Hilton sang Tomorrow and 
Tomorrow, and Pat Falkenhain re
turned to sing Second-hand Rose. 
Then Ruth Pivirotto came back to 
do a samba. Gubie wasnt on the 
program, but she performed by 
popular request her Glamor, Thats 
Me routine. A slap on the back 
to the hard-working dramats for a 
fine show.
The gym was decorated with corn 
stalks, bright leaves, and clever 
autumn murals displaying harvest 
moons, com fields, pumpkins, etc. 
APO served cider and doughnuts in 
keeping with the theme of the eve
ning.
Color Day To Be Held 
In Margaret Morrison
Color Day, one of the oldest tra
dition of Margaret Morrison Sen
ate, will take place this morning, at 
eleven oclock and will be accom
panied by a tea at the Union from 
four until six. Margaret Morrison 
freshmen, their sponsors, and the 
faculty will be guests of the Senate. 
Miss Joyce Spears, a newcomer to 
the College, will be sponsor.
As is the custom, freshman will 
receive the colors of the previous 
graduating class. The colors for this 
years class will be green and yel
low.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945
dtitosi'i. /'imcUaiA
The Challenge of Peace
There are men who believe that war in all its horror is necessary for 
the satisfaction of the needs of the human character. They say that the 
terror and the strain of conflict are needed to bring out the true greatness 
of mankind. They point to the wild search for excitement which was 
socially typical in the United States in the years following the first world 
war. They bring forth mans demand for the vicarious thrills of the horror 
movie which was so apparent in those years and the restlessness and dis
satisfaction reflected in the writing of that time as proof of their contention 
that man is only spiritually at peace when he is in conflict with others of 
his species. They call to witness for their cause the great technological de
velopment which was brought about during World War II to demonstrate 
that cultural advancement occurs most rapidly when man has girded his 
loins for battle. They revive the rapidly ageing saw which states that 
There are no atheists in fox holes. to prove their contention that man is 
closer to God in war than in peace. It may be true that war is exciting and 
does in some cases stimulate men to accomplish almost super-human feats, 
but it does not necessarily follow that peace is dull or that it cannot offer 
an incentive for the highest achievement as great as if not greater than 
that provided by war. The Second World War with its Bond drives, scrap 
collections and waste paper drives in which everyone participated did make 
the little man on the home front feel that even though he was far from 
actual battle, he was a part of the pattern of history, but there are tasks 
to be done in the years of peace that are important and vital enough to 
make even the combat veteran feel the importance of his participation in 
the actualities of life.
The first vital job on the peacetime agenda is paradoxically the com
pletion of the war. The war against tyranny, greed and, selfishness will be 
an eternal battle; but there is work of a finite worthwhile nature that can 
be done to clear away the debris, both actual and psychological, of World 
War II. In the first place there are Nazis in Europe and in Japan who 
do not yet understand the ways of peace and of democracy. These people 
must be reeducated if peace is to endure. There are people in France, in 
Poland and in Germany itself who are starving, and weary. There are 
little orphaned children and bent old grand-parents who have been bombed 
or driven from their homes by the holocaust. They need shelter and cloth
ing and comfort. They must be helped.
There are American and British and Russian soldiers sweating out the 
lonely hours of occupation in Europe, winning the peace. They too must 
be clothed and housed and fed. They need books, magazines, movies, and 
USO shows to make their jobs a little less lonely and boring. There are 
other GIs who need the boats and the trains and the planes which will 
bring them back to the good old USA and home.
In hospital beds and convalescent wards all over the country lie the 
boys who are really paying for the war. They have been hurt physically 
and mentally by the battle. The stupidity of the generation before it has 
cost them their arms and their legs and their minds. They have given 
themselves freely to their countrys cause and they must be repaid.
There are men too who may be said to have come out of this thing on 
top because all they have lost is their time and their youth. Whats three 
years out of a lifetime anyway? What matter is the lost fun and the dream 
of the first few years of college. Whats the difference if Joe must wait 
another three years to marry Betty because his savings disintegrated while 
he was supporting his mother on a GIs pay? Who cares whether George 
can ever build that house he dreamt of in that foxhole on Okinawa? 
Shouldnt something be done to give the GI a chance to catch up a little 
and to belong to life again?
And what about you? Do you want to look forward to a future that is 
black with the memory of 1929? Do you want inflation to carry that after
college job off into a depression as bad as the worst of the 1929 debacle?
The starving people of Europe are crying to be fed, the boys who are 
occupying Germany need the few comforts which will make their lives 
more bearable, the wounded men should get the best of hospital care and 
the discharged veterans deserve the chance to live normal peacetime lives. 
Inflation must be prevented if we are to win the fight for peace. You can 
be a vital part of the current of history if you buy the Victory Bonds which 
will pay for the occupation, for rehabilitation and reorientation and will 
pay for the food to feed starving Europe. The money you convert into bonds 
will not encourage the inflational tendency of the post-war economy. The 
challenge of peace is greater than that of war. Are you equal to it?______
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
mmmwsenteo fo* national advertising by
National Advertising Service, Inc. Aiter offlce Hours Cal1
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief .......................SC. 6519
420 Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager.................EM. 9424
Chicago  Boston m wse Angeles  Sam Fnancisco
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Offlce under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price *1.10 per year.
Editor ........................................................................................................................ Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor .....................................................................................................Augie Binder
Sports Editor ...................................................................................................... Don Clendennen
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Boo Girts
Photographer ................................................................................................................ Dan Franks
Headline Editor........................................................................................................Ben Schwartz
One of the Boys
Bill Scherb
Strictly one of the boys is hand
some Bill Scherb, a conscienti
ous eager-beaver  with what his 
frat-brothers term a diversified 
spattering of superficial knowledge. 
Set to graduate in February, Bill 
has a large number of friends and 
has made a fine record in his eight 
semesters on campus. Though he 
doesnt sport a four factor, consid
ering his impressive list of activities
Bill Scherb 
plus the burden of working his way 
through, there is no doubt that 
something between his ears must 
revolve to grind out his 2.6.
His offices include vice-president 
of A. S. M. E. and vice-warden of 
his fraternity, Beta Sigma Rho. He 
has played a French horn in the Kil
tie Band, been a member of the Tech 
Orchestra, and has still found time 
to excel in athletics. His part-time 
jobs range from soda-jerking to
drafting, but his specialty is selling 
shoes. All this and hobbies, too! 
Bill does a little painting and sculp
turing.
Starting his third year of varsity 
basketball, he wears a couple of 
Cs and is shooting for another 
this winter. He says the Tech five is 
going to show marked improve
ment over previous seasons. Track, 
softball, tennis, and football are 
about all the other means of exercise 
to help instruct the boys in the art 
of judo.
Bill is a local boy, born and rais
ed around the Golden Triangle, but 
apologetically headds that he has 
done a bit of traveling. The Scherb 
family features real dissention as 
Bills twin brother played football 
for Pitt.
He is non-committal on the sub
ject, but those in the know place 
him equal to the best of the Car
negie Casanovas; and he is strictly 
on the loose if you overlook a little 
matter of a correspondence tie with 
a girl he met a year back on a beach 
near Boston. To make this sketch 
complete, it might be added that he 
neither smokes nor drinks, and his 
ambition is to learn to drive. He has 
nothing but praise for Tech and the 
boys and girls he has met here. His 
only complaint is the summer se
mester; he feels that a vacation pro
vides an excellent chance to get 
ahead financially and thus relieve 
the pressure during the rest of the 
year.
Bills future is bright! A mechan
ical engineer, he has been offered 
several opportunities in air-condi
tioning as a sales engineer.
DRUCntof*ail
SUN
DRUG STORES
Reliable Prescription Service

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945_______________ THE CARNEGIE TARTANVICTORY QUEEN CANDIDATES
Linda Lee Cowherd  FreshmanDorothy Feldman 
Alpha Epsilon Phi
Carroll Henson 
Delta Delta Delta
Helen Jaffurs 
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Peggy Nelis  Sigma KappaShirley Swaney  Delta Gamma
New Courses Planned 
For Home Ec. Dept.
The Home Economics Department 
of Margaret Morrison recently gain
ed new staff members who will help 
present the plan of study proposed 
by Miss Calla Van Syckle. Miss 
Vivian Crow, who has been appoint
ed professor in Home Economics, 
will teach Home Economics I and II 
and supervise student teaching. Her 
many and varied experiences in all 
phases of her field set Miss Crow 
apart as one of the most outstand
ing persons in Home Economics* 
Miss Crow received her B.S. from 
Kansas Wesleyan University, where 
she majored in Home Economics, 
and her M.S. degree in Home Eco
nomics Education from Iowa State 
College. For the past six years she 
has been affiliated with the staff at 
Pennsylvania State College, where 
she directed a research project for 
the School of Education and acted 
as a consultant with the Pennsylva
nia Education Workshop. With her 
able help many more interesting 
courses in Home Economics are as
sured.
Miss Bethel M. Caster, an instruc
tor of Home Economics, has been 
designated to teach costume design, 
clothing for teaching majors, and in
troductory home economics. She re
ceived her degree from Cornell Uni
versity, where she majored in cloth
ing and textiles. Miss Caster came 
to Carnegie Tech from Beaver Col
lege.
Virginia Mulhallon  Independent
Campus Bond Drive 
Will Determine Queen
The last great Bond Drive to be 
held on the Carnegie campus is well 
under way. Iris Kwall, chairman of 
the Student War Finance Commit
tee, announces that $10,000 worth of 
bonds have already been sold by 
the contestants in the Bond Queen 
Contest which opened last Monday. 
The girls shown above are entered 
in the race for the title of Bond 
Queen which will be conferred upon 
the girl who has collected the larg
est amount of money in bond sales 
before the night of December 14 
when the winner will be crowned 
Victory Bond Queen at the Student 
Council Winter dance scheduled for 
that night.
Money obtained in the Victory 
Bond Drive this year will be used 
to pay for the costs of War Pro
duction, to bring men home from 
Europe and Japan and to maintain 
occupation troops there, to finance 
the GI Bill of Rights, and to care 
for hospitalized veterans. Money in
vested in bonds will help to insure a 
stable post-war economy as well. 
This loan may be considered the 
most important of all campus bond 
drives, for bond buyers will be in
vesting in construction instead of 
destruction.
This year every student on cam
pus is in a sense able to participate 
in the Bond Queen Contest the pro
ceeds of which will go to the Victory 
Bond Drive. Every bond he buys 
before December 14 can be creditPeggy Wentzel Chi Omega
ed to his favorite contestant. To 
credit a bond to a contestant the 
student should follows the follow
ing procedure. He should (1) ob
tain a Bond Blank from the cashiers 
office in Industries Hall, (2) take 
it to any bank with him when he 
buys his bond. The bank will stamp 
the bond blank and the student can 
then (3) write the name of his fav
orite contestant on the back of the 
blank and (4) return the blank to 
the cashiers office. The bond blanks 
may be sent by the students to their 
parents or friends anywhere in the 
United States for any bank in the 
country is authorized to stamp them. 
They should be returned to the 
cashiers office within a week when
Pat Werner  Kappa Alpha Theta
possible. Bond buyers should credit 
purchases only to girls listed by the 
committee as contestants. Any cam
pus group can put their support be
hind the girl they want to win.
The Beauties of Carnegie Tech 
who are already in the contest are 
eligible to win another prize offer
ed to conscientious bond saleswom
en, for Wannamakers Department 
Store is offering a free weekend in 
New York to the two Pennsylvania 
girls who sell bonds to the largest 
number of individual persons before 
the end of December. The lucky 
girls will receive a nights stay at 
the St. Regis, luncheon and dinner 
at Wannamakers and a ticket to 
Wannamakers first television show.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945
Student Council
Fourth Meeting, 1945-46 
October 28, 1945 
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 
p. m.
Present: Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder,
Lakowski, Nutter, Straka, Yurchison; 
Misses Clark, Emmel, Haushalter, Horridge, Irwin, and Stewart.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Freshman Regulations:
The Freshman Regulations and Orien
tation Committee held court for 23 fresh
man who had violated the rules. All but 
three of these were present. There are 
now four names being held for Fun Night.
The Traditions Examination is being 
made up, and will be given to the fresh
men November 6, 1945.
It was decided that Fun Night would 
be changed to Friday, November 9, 1945, 
in Thistle Hall, because of other conflict
ing social functions being held Novem
ber 10, 1945.
Budget Committee:
It was moved that the Tartan budget 
and the Margaret Morrison Senate budget 
be approved by Student Council.
Motion carried.
Womens Guild budget is to be rein
vestigated.
Budgets have not been received from 
Mens Glee Club or Womens Dorm Coun
cil.
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the follow
ing petitions be approved by Student 
Council:
Tri-Delt Social Fraternity petitions 
Student Council to hold a party for the 
Tecvets in Thistle Hall, November 16, 
1945, from 8:30 to 12:00.
At the October 22, 1945, meeting of In
terfraternity Council it was decided to 
petition Student Council for a change of 
date of the Interfraternity Dance. The 
original date, Saturday, December 8, 1945, 
has been found inconvenient because of a 
conflict with the basketball schedule. In
terfraternity Council would now like per
mission to hold the dance on Saturday, 
January 12, 1946.
Motion carried.
It was decided that Bernie Armstrongs 
orchestra with vocalists would be secured 
for the Winter Carnival to be held at the 
Schenley Hotel.
Mr. Aisenberg suggested that Friday 
night dances be held until 1:00 a. m. and 
that Dormitory girls be permitted to stay 
out until 2:00 a. m. both Friday and Sat
urday nights.
Mr. Stine moved that Scotch and Soda 
be eliminated from this years social cal
endar.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the publicity 
on the bulletin boards be restricted to one 
dance only, posters being put up for the 
dance which is to be held first.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the petition 
from Fine Arts College to hold a Beaux 
Arts Ball, open only to Fine Arts students 
be approved. This Ball will be held in 
Thistle Hall, March 23, 1946.
Motion carried.
Points and Keys Committee:
Both Mens and Womens Point Sys
tems are to be investigated.
Miss Emmel reported that the Keys 
Committee had decided to classify the 
various campus organizations into two 
groupsthose receiving All-School Keys 
and those receiving Special Keys such as 
Tecvets or Glee Club, depending upon 
whether they were All-School activities 
or were for a Special Organization. It 
was also decided that in order to get a 
key, that person must abide by definite 
rules, yet to be completed. This was 
tabled until further investigation. 
Publications Committee:
The Publications Committee recom
mends that instead of barring freshmen 
who have not satisfactorily completed 
Freshman Regulations from Publications, 
they not be allowed to accept a staff posi
tion or a key.
Mr. Binder recommended that the rein
statement of salaries for Publication Edi
tors be investigated. Mr. Binder sug
gested that a student poll be taken to see 
if they are in favor of 8:30 a. m. classes. 
Special Committee:
Mr. Yurchison suggested that a large 
mural be placed in the Skibo representing 
the three colleges. An All-School contest 
'would be held to find a theme for the 
mural, and then the Painting and Design 
students would paint it as a school 
project.
Meeting was adjourned at 11:00 p. m. 
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin,
* Secretary.
Stooonts! Get Hep 
To Whats Cooking
Were having a dance! I didnt 
know that! What new regulation? 
When did what happen? No on ever 
tells me anything!
If the above bears resemblance to 
any statement you have made, I bid 
you read on for I have a very 
special way of knowing all that goes 
on around campus. You need not 
send in any box tops; you need not 
carry my lunch tray; Im willing to 
tell you free-for-nothing. I will give 
you a formula for ridding yourself 
of all the minor and major pangs of 
ignorance; it will make you a new 
man or woman (as the case may 
be)!
Be Hep!Read Student Council 
Minutes!
Tecvets Reorganize, 
Nutter Becomes Head
On Friday, November 2, a great
ly reinforced Tecvet organization 
held its second meeting of the new 
semester. More than fifty members 
were in attendance, many of them 
joining the club for the first time. 
Among the new members is a 
young lady, a veteran of the Waves, 
Techs first ex-service woman.
The first event of the evening was 
a talk delivered by Col. Dowling 
who answered many of the ques
tions which had been brought to his 
attention at his office as well as# 
those which were brought up at the 
meeting. He concluded by giving a 
brief discussion of the new ad
vanced ROTC course. The Colonel 
explained that ex-servicemen and 
graduates of the basic ROTC course 
are eligible for the advanced 
course. Men enrolled in the course 
will be given a sustenance allow
ance of about $20.00 a month. They 
are required to attend summer camp 
receiving at this time the pay of an 
army private.
Col. Dowlings speech was follow
ed by the regular business of the 
meeting, foremost of which was the 
election of officers. The results of 
the election showed Joe Nutter, 
Commander; Robert Kerr, Lt. Com
mander; William Miller, Adjutant; 
Robert Straka, Finance Officer; Har
old Thor, Special Service Officer. 
These officers will undertake to lead 
the organization in one of its most 
crucial periods as it seeks to expand 
from a small band to a large well 
knit campus power.
Carnegie Library Holds 
Anniversary Open House
The Carnegie Library of Pitts
burgh will celebrate its 50th Anni
versary on November 5 and 6. On 
Monday, Nov. 5 there will be an 
Open House at the Main library 
from 7 to 10 P. M. At this time all 
departments of the Library, includ
ing the behind-the-scenes depart
ments such as printingand book
binding will be open to visitors.
On Tuesday, Nov. 6, the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra will 
give an anniversary concert in Car
negie Music Hall. This concert is 
free to everyone, but the first 500 
adults who apply at the Open House 
on Monday will receive tickets 
which will permit them to be seated 
in the Music Hall Tuesday before 
8:10 P. M. when the doors will be 
open to the public.
One of
Professor Samuel Rosenberg is 
the man you have been reading 
aboutthe man who painted Is
rael, which won First Honorable 
Mention in the Exhibition of Amer
ican Painting at the Carnegie Insti
tute. He is a man well worth reading 
about. Last March, after he had
given a successful exhibition of his 
paintings in New York, Esquire 
Magazine printed an article about 
him entitled A Human Sort of 
Artist. He is a wonderful artist and 
a wonderful person. People around 
Tech speak of him in the same glow
ing terms that the author from Es
quire used, commenting on his mod
esty, his patience, his interest in hu
manity. Because he can discuss his 
painting so well, he is particularly 
interesting to the layman. After 
talking with him, a person goes 
away with the feeling that he has 
learned something about art and 
that he does not want to stop learn
ing. Mr. Rosenberg makes you real
ize that there is something in paint
ing besides mere pictorial represen
tation, something vital, something 
profound, something worth while.
Mechanical Engineers 
Receive Army Surplus
Last Monday the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering received 
from the Army Ordnance District a 
recording wattmeter, a brush ocsillagraph, two radiation pyrometers, 
and a high-speed hydraulic record
er. These instruments constitute an 
outright gift of over two thousand 
dollars. Complete with all necessary 
auxiliaries, this equipment has been 
set up in the Mechanical Engineer
ing Laboratory, in Machinery Hall, 
and will be used by the students for 
regular laboratory experiments.
These instruments were used by 
a committee set up by the Ordnance 
Department, and operated by the 
American Society of Mechanical En
gineers. Their former use was in 
the study of shell forgings, and 
bomb casings. These mark the first 
supplies received by Carnegie Tech 
under the surplus property policy 
of the Army. CIT has a high priority 
because of its status as a pre-in
duction training center, since the 
school offers courses in ROTC. The 
school, therefore, can obtain almost 
all surplus property it can locate. 
Soon the school is planning to re
ceive some gauges, and drill preses.
the Profs
. . . Samuel Rosenberg
His painting, Israel, a semi-ab
stract of a type of personality, is 
representative of the work he has 
done in the past few years. Before 
he began to paint in the colorfully 
emotional style of Israel, he did 
realistic landscapes and scenes of 
Pittsburgh; however, his painting 
has continued to grow in scope, ex
pression and significance until it has 
departed entirely from realistic 
scenes and landscapes, and reached 
the poignant heights of Israel. 
This progress is in line with Mr. 
Rosenbergs belief that an artist 
should continue developing. Success 
is one type of painting should not 
be an end in itself, but rather a 
challenge to venture farther with 
new styles and subject matter.
Mr. Rosenberg believes that ab
straction is the basis for most good 
painting because it isolates the art 
qualities. He has done some strictly 
non-objective abstracts for his own 
pleasure, but most of his well 
known work in semi-abstract based 
on an idea or on realtistic hubject 
matter. He helped to found the Ab
stract Group of Pittsburgh.
His choice of subjects has changed 
over a period of years, too. He paints 
whatever he is interested in. Late
ly, these have been things of uni
versal significance. It was painting 
with such universal interest that 
he exhibited in New York. Most 
were semi-abstract such as Israel. 
In his own words, he interprets his 
subjects rather than imitates real
ity. He expresses his own feelings 
very well on canvas and often uses 
colors to heighten emotional qual
ity rather than to imitate the actual 
appearance of the subject. The war 
has definitely influenced his choice 
of material. He has painted many 
subjects related to the tragedy of 
war. His painting, Bread; is an ex
ample of the effect of the war on 
him and his reaction to its effects on 
humanity. Another in this group is 
his painting of a terrified scholar 
clutching a book, a sort of protest 
against Hitlers burning of the 
books.
Professor Rosenberg has many 
varied interests besides painting. In 
addition to teaching oil classes at 
Tech, he has founded and directed 
art classes of the Irene Kaufman 
Settlement. He conducts painting 
classes for adults at the Pittsburgh 
YMHA and YWHA, and he instructs 
at Pennsylvania College for Wom
en. He has been represented in sev
eral International Exhibits and was 
one of the few Pittsburgh painters 
to rate a one-man show at the Car
negie Institute. He also exhibited 
twenty-four paintings at the New 
York Galleries of the Associated 
American Artists.
Professor Rosenberg is a favorite 
among his students. They give an 
endless number of reasons for lik
ing him the fact that he treats 
them like equals; that he sees the 
potentialities in them, and is inter
ested in their development; that he 
explains what he means so that they 
can understand rather than merely 
showing them; that if they dont un
derstand he will discuss it with 
them until they do. His students say 
that he is one of those people who 
just knows how to teach. They al
ways add, Everybody loves him.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN6
CAMPUS CLEANERS
"Quick Laundry Service"
Mens Suits Cleaned and Pressed   69c 
Trousers Cleaned and Pressed . . . 35c 
Ladies Skirts .... 35c up
Dresses.........................................85c up
"We Call and Deliver"
Skibo Scraps
Did you hear about the hayloft 
at the SAEs Halloween Party? We 
dont have all the details, b^t we can 
imagine how much fun it must have 
been . . . Pan-American relations 
are going to be split if Carroll Hen
son continues to tote a certain locket 
around . . . Jackie Vlaskcamp was 
in this weekend. Shell be discharg
ed from the W. A. C. in five weeks. 
Shell be the second woman in Tecvets . . . SAE pledges Bob Ayres 
and John Mosley have deserted Tech 
for P.C.W. Cant say as we blame 
them, considering whats to be found 
there . . . Mimi (just call me Slim) 
Pearl is waiting for A1 . . . A. J. 
Zimmerman and Jack are just 
friends, they keep telling every
body . . . The male population of
dent . . . Shirley Enslin has been 
doing the town with Conny Sarasdy 
. . . Pat Kelsey is dating Art Maylor, but she seems to be thinking of 
another Art she met at the Lake. 
Maybe its just Art for Arts sake 
. . . Mary Lou Ashe is walking on 
air since her fiance is home. He 
expects to be discharged any day 
now . . . Audrey Hobe and Three 
Cheers for Gordon Shupp whooped 
it up until 4 in the mawning on the 
Tri-Delt weekend at North Park 
. . . Scottie Atkinson is flashing a 
brand new diamond from a certain 
West Point Caydet . . . Vignettes 
from the Fall Brawl (Autumn Frolic 
to you): DUs Andre, Kindle, Lansberry, Cornacchia, and Gress scene 
leaving in the middle of the eveningThe Romantic Young Lady and Friends Having Fun at the Dance.
Autumn Frolic Sidelines
Tech all aflutterafraid they wont 
get an invite to the Guild dance 
. . . Melva Brooks plans to finish 
her five-year course before getting 
married. Apparently shes not one 
of these girls who puts the heart be
fore the course . . . Everyone is 
glad to see Zeke Brill back on cam
pusespecially the wimen . . . The 
girls in the Tartan office seem to 
have taken a liking to a certain boy 
whose initials are Tony Arrott . . . 
Speaking of the Tartan, why does 
the business manager need three, 
count em, secretaries? . . . Olive 
Gallaher has been doing the town 
with Bob Chalmers . . . Gloria 
Goldsmith is thinking of California 
and missing a certain music stuGreat Lakes to date Jean Witherow.
. . . Marty Jacobs, ex-Tartanite, 
back in town, looking real sharp in 
those grays. . . . Augie Binder with 
Lisbeth Kephart. . . . And why was 
APO so stingy with the cider? Oh, 
well, what can you expect for a 
nickel. . . . The dance decorations 
were pretty good, but they could 
have been a lot better if a little 
more school spirit had been in evi
dence when it was time to work 
on them. As it was, decorations were 
finished at 5 in the morn. . . . And 
who started the rumor that CH is 
getting married?
And why didnt Burt Quint have 
a date last weekend?
The heiress to the Goodyear mil
lions is secretary to the Technicals 
managing editor. . . . Whats Rose 
dreaming about? . . . What DU was
. . . Dell Miller shivering from 1:15 
to 1:30Why? . . . Norm Zuerner 
and Nancy Smith . . . Marilyn Allshouse and Frannie Clark whooping 
it up . . . Bob Teasdale was the 
envy of the men folks as he escorted 
Boo Girts . . . Lou Emmel enjoy
ing her decorations with Bob . . . 
Maggie Harris and Karl Weber 
Joe Stein kept his reputation for 
getting sharp dates by taking Mar
gie Cohen . . . Bob Straka with 
Mary Ellen Schmidt . . . Gubey 
just mad about Dimpleneez . . . 
Tony Arrott and Doris Becker still 
stepping high . . . Dorothy McBurney sporting a new gossip pin.
Boris Abrams dropped in from
scene recently with Alyce Beachler? Huba Huba. . . .
A personal checking account affords 
a practical means of keeping simple 
records of receipts and expenditures. 
Such records arc extremely helpful 
in budgeting expenses and making 
out tax returns.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
4609 Forbes StreetMU. 1288
PITTSBURGH
203 FIFTH AVENUE
417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. 6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty)

---------------------------------------------------

6___________________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN____________________________TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945
OSWALD 
and HES
Manufacturers of
NORFOLK and DELICIOUS
Brands
MEATS and BOLOGNAS
1550 Spring Garden Avenue 
CEdar 4800

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
dssvrge by. iCyghc is iCyrB
Techs unbeaten, untied soccer 
team kept its unblemished record 
intact once more last Saturday when 
the boys knocked over Thiel Col
lege for the second time in a row. 
This time Thiel was not only beaten, 
they was moidered to the tune of
8-2.
The game itself was only one of 
the many attractions of the trip, so 
leave us begin our saga from the be
ginning. It all started with all the 
sleep that nobody got Friday night. 
As the team piled into the bus, they 
were the saddest-looking bunch of 
Sad Sacks that these eyes have ever 
seen. Jack Sherwood stumbled in 
just as the bus started to roll, plunk
ed his frame down on the five seats 
in the rear and wasnt heard from 
from then on.
All was serene and the only noise 
was a few stray snores until McMullan and Kindblom woke up and 
started warbling. That started some.-, 
thing which didnt end for hours. All 
the way from Choe to Roll Me 
Over and back again. Let me re
mark that if you havent heard Pat 
OConnors Termites rendition of 
Chloebrother, you havent lived.
Arrival at Thiel was accompanied 
by the sight of a little patch of mud 
which eventually turned out to be 
(the soccer field. I wont say it was 
[small, but Sam Robertson, the busdriver, thought it was just the righ 
[size to park his bus in and started to 
! park, when someone noticed goal 
I posts at each end and told him 
I not to.
After swimming into their size 
140s, the team took to the field to be 
met by a throng of 80,000x10-3 
I fans. The coach made his usual 2- 
| second oration (which consists of 
the words, Heres Mud in Your 
I Eye) and operations were begun.
Thiel started in earnest and had 
la goal in the first five minutes of 
play as Gomes scored on a penalty 
kick. Tech was not to be denied, 
however, and a few moments later 
Cloyd Mellott started a long procesIsion of swishes past the Thiel goalie 
Iby punching in a shot to knot the 
1 count. Gomes had a good chance to 
I put his team ahead again when 
he was given another penalty kick, 
| but he got over-anxious and missed.
The Tartans got out the old steamI roller in the second period and 
really to town. McMullan, Tech out
side, racked up the first tally on a 
beautiful corner-kick. The Thiel 
goalie was so amazed at the sight 
of a Tech corner-kick coming near 
the goal that he stood dumb-founded as the ball squirted (literally)
past him. Ray Anyaoglu took up 
where Mac left off and banged home 
two goals. The first was a hard shot 
from ten yards out, the second came 
on a penalty-kick. Gomes again 
countered for Thiel on a shot from 
a pile-up in front of the Tech goal 
and the half ended, Tech 4, Thiel 2.
The third quarter was compara
tively calm and the only score came 
when Bob Williams sent the ball to
ward the Thiel goal. Mellott tapped 
it home for another score to add to 
Carnegies rising sum. The whole 
fourth quarter was played in their 
territory and Tech breezed home 
three more scores. Mellott continued 
his brilliant play to score once more 
himself and set up a shot which 
Aynauglu made good. The last tally 
was a fitting climax. Tech was given 
a penalty shot when a Thiel back 
got his hands on the ball. Bob Wil
liams, who has been aching to score 
from his halfback position all sea
son, stepped up with all the finesse 
of a polar bear, and quietly banged 
the ball through the goal to wind 
up the days festivities with Tech 
on top, 8-2.
Sidelights on the Game: Cloyd 
Mellott, Techs Captain for the day 
played himself a whale of a game. 
The AAF dischargee was all over 
his side of the field and scored three 
times to boot. *
Ray Aynaoglue scored thrice to 
bring his total to six for the season.
The team was treated to some 
Turkish songs on the way back by 
the representatives of that nation. 
Lineups:
Carnegie Thiel
Heckman G Meckley
Kindblom RF Long
Hartman LF Noske
King RH Thalman
Varga CH Fauth
Trefry LH Gosnell
McMullan OR Ott
Mellott (Capt) IR Bonin
Aynaoglue CF Gomes (Capt)
Erkun IL Lachhmansing
Perry OL Alvin
Subs. Carnegie: Williams, Atay, 
Atman, Weinberger, Sherwood,
Rose. Thiel: Beckman, Fusca, Don
aldson, Rouse, Hanoman, Roch, 
Packard.
The team faces its toughest op
position of the year here Saturday 
when it meets a strong Oberlin 
eleven. The game should be a cork
er. Heres a chance to get some of 
that long lost college spirit into 
action again and let the team know 
were behind them. Get out there 
Saturday and holler!
WORLD'S MOST HONORED WATCH
A.vgSFgB 
tsF.h-F
The latest data received from 
Coach Risedorph reveals large scale 
action on the intramural scene. The 
Betas have all but cinched the touch 
football trophy, and plans are laid 
for starting volleyball, table tennis, 
and handball soon. Wrestling is still 
seeking additional musclemen, and 
the swimming squad remains open 
for new material.
All entries for volleyball are to 
be in the intramural office by five on 
November 9. Competition is not only 
for the frats and dorms, but also for 
any class sections of departmental 
groups which want to organize 
teams. A depoist of $2.50 is required 
to insure appearance of all sched
uled games. Details about table ten
nis have not been released as yet, 
but there will be opportunities for 
single, doubles, and teams. Hand
ball is to start the last week of No
vember with singles and doubles 
ladders determining the campus 
champs. Those interested should 
notify the Intramural Office  104 
Gymnasium Building  by the six
teenth.
Hard fought contests and relative
ly few upsets were the feature of 
the touch football week as the Betas 
continued their undefeated rampage 
by downing Scobell Hall and DU to 
lead the pack with an impressive 
record of six wins, no losses, and 
one tie. Meanwhile SAE stayed in 
the race as they made it four 
straight.
As the presses start to roll the 
Betas are tangling with the Delts 
and the SAEs with the PiKAs in 
two decisive games. A Beta loss 
combined with an SAE victory will 
mean a championship replay of their 
beginning-of-the-season tie. DU and 
Scobell found themselves knocked 
out of the picture by a smoothworking Beta six by scores of 17-9 
and 20-8, and the SAEs grabbed a
9-2 decision from the Delts plus an 
additional win as the result of a Phi 
Kap forfeit.
The big battle for the cellar found 
the TXs pulling out with a 23-7 
slaughter of the Independents. The 
DUs and Scobell played a 16-10 
thriller with the boys from the hill 
on the long end. Other results show
ed PiKA bounding back from an
18-12 defeat at the hands of the Phi 
Kaps to squeeze a victory from the 
TXs and trounce Scobell 22-6. The 
high score of the week was piled up 
by DUs as they passed their way 
to a 30-7 win against a defenseless 
TX squad. The Independents almost 
canceled that goose egg in the win
column, but fell short 
the Phi Kaps, 7-7.
astheytied
Standing of the Teams
W. L.T.
Beta Theta Pi601
Sigma Alpha Epsilon412
Scobell Hall430
Pi Kappa Alpha430
Phi Kappa431
Delta Upsilon440
Delta Tau Delta340
Theta Xi151
Independents071
Tech Sporting Scene
Dick Heckman
This is the first (and possibly the 
last) edition of an idea which may 
or may not pan out. Lets begin our 
tale of woe with a too-well-known 
facttheres been a war going on 
around here somewhere. Now the 
word on everyones lips is recon
version. The thing that hit me be
tween the eyes in the short time Ive 
been here is that Techs enthusiasm 
must have been absent when the re
conversion was being passed out.
Oh, if we only had a football 
team is the standard response. All 
I can say is that if you want to see 
football, go up to that pile of con
crete they call the Pitt Stadium 
some Saturday or over to Forbes 
Field on Sunday. Im not guarantee
ing youll see football but at least 
therell be 22 buys bumping their 
heads together and it gives a reason
ably exact facimile.
But, back to the point. There are 
two good reasons why Tech can dig 
its vocal cords out, of the mothballs:
1. Some 40 of our clan are chasing 
around the basket-ball court every 
afternoon until they cant see 
straight. Theyll soon be ready for 
that 20-game grind (if they dont 
drop dead in the process).
2. Pat OConnor has 25 maniacs 
going through various gyrations 
down in The Bowl every afternoon. 
The soccer team is one of the best 
in the last decade at Tech and bears 
watching. Theyre home thi Satur 
day against Oberlin (a large crowd 
would be appreciated no end).
Dont get me wrong. This isnt a 
one-man crusade to bring back 
sports in this area. I believe that 
sports con be fun for all concerned, 
not just the teams. It is with just 
that in mind that Id like to take a 
look at Tech sports each week,a 
little corn, some sarcasm and the 
general hubba-hubba which goes to 
make up sports in general. Thisll 
be a column where anything and 
everything can happen with sports 
in the limelight.
Basketball Squad 
Shapes Up For Season
Since October 15, Coach Max Hannum has been drilling a squad of 
approximately forty men, only one 
of whom, Bill Scherb, was a mem
ber of last years squad. Although 
at this time Coach Hannum has only 
a tentative lineup, the first team to 
date is comprised of Joe Harmouth 
and Gene Hannum at the forward 
posts, Paul Kuzma, a lanky fresh
man at the pivot spot, and Kohn 
and Bill Sherb at the guards. Chuck 
Jewell and Lew Heiles have been 
alternating with Kohn and Sherb at 
the guard positions.
Because of the large turnout, 
Coach Hannum has decided to have 
two separate teams, the varsity, and 
the junior varsity. The junior var
sity will play a preliminary game 
to all the varsitys home games. 
Coach Hannum emphasizes the fact 
that no boy will be cut from the 
squad. Daily practice is intended to 
start the week of November 12, in 
order that the team will be well pre
pared for its start on December 12 
with Geneva College at Beaver 
Falls, Pa. Heres wishing you a lot 
of luck with the team, Coach. Techs 
with you all the way.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1945(Hlxe Carnegie ip laid
Dr. Herbert Spencer 
Evening School Grad. 
Elected Bucknell Pres.
Upon graduating from the eve
ning school of C.I.T. as a mechanical 
engineer, Herbert L. Spencer com
menced his career of teaching as 
educational director at Westinghouse Airbrake. Not long after this,
Dr. Spencer joined the ranks of the 
regular school teacher by accepting 
a position as teacher at Wilkinsburg 
High School, later moving to Lati
mer High School, and then to Frick 
Training School. Later he became 
Dean at the University of Pitts
burgh. It was while serving in this 
position that Dr. Spencer was in
vited to become president of Penn
sylvania College for Women. This 
bid he accepted and immediately be
gan to increase the income for fa
cilities of the college. Under his ad
ministration, the half-way mark was 
achieved in a drive for $1,500,000 
for buildings and endowments. The 
news that Paul Mellon donated the 
home of his father, Andrew Mellon, 
to the school for students and alum
ni was heartily received. Dr. Spen
cer made his home on the campus 
with his wife and two daughters.
Early in the spring of this year, 
Dr. Spencer was elected president 
of Bucknell University at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. His inaugura
tion was on the 23fd of June at the 
college. At present he and his family 
reside at Lewisburg near the col
lege.
Among these other accomplish
ments, Dr. Spencer has found time 
to be an authority on Indian 
mounds, child psychology, raise 
vegetables on chemicals, and collect 
stamps.
We evening students here at Tech 
are inspired and proud when we 
think of the degree of success that 
one of the former evening students 
has achieved. Let us all be spurred 
onward by the ambition and success 
of one who has made his way.
Swimming at Gym 
Every Wednesday Eve 
For Evening Students
Evening Student Council 
Party to be Held Sat.; Nov. 10
7:00 to 10:00
It is no more than fair that there 
. be an explanation for the question 
marks in the article concerning the 
Assembly Party that appeared in 
last weeks Plaid. It seems good old 
Homer, the over-active Gremlin 
must have put in his two cents 
worth as the date had been set for 
November 10.
All has been solved now! Lets 
hope Homer doesnt interfere again. 
The date is definitely set for Sat
urday evening, November 10. Satur
day evening, So What! Just think 
of all the fellow students youll be
come acquainted with.
Now that we have the date settled 
lets go on to the time. The Assem
bly begins at nine and ends at 
twelve. It is to be held in the pleas
ant surroundings of the Margaret 
Morrison Recreation Hall, (com
monly known as Maggie Murph) 
Just come in and go up to the top
Plaque Awarded To 
Outstanding Eve Grad
The Evening Student Council is 
making arrangements to give an 
award to the outstanding graduate 
of the Evening School classes. The 
student who is selected will have 
his or her name engraved on a 
plaque which will be placed in one 
of the buildings, a key engraved 
with the students name and also a 
certificate stating the basis of the 
award.
Each year the candidates for the 
Bachelors Degree from the Evening 
School will be considered for this 
award. Their scholastic and activity 
records will be examined in relation 
to their personal traits and charac
teristics and the type, as well as 
responsibilities, of their employ
ment. The length of time in which 
they completed the requirements for 
their degrees, the promise which 
they show for future success, and 
the extent to which they participate 
in the activities of campus or non
campus professional or technical so
cieties in their field of study are 
other factors that will be considered. 
If in the opinion of the examining 
committee none of the candidates 
for the award meets the standards 
of the award, it will not be given.
The recipient of this award will 
be selected by the Evening School 
Student Council from candidates 
recommended by a committee con
sisting of the Supervisor of Evening 
Classes, the Assistant Registrar, and 
additional committee members se
lected by them.
War Fund Collections 
Indicate Successful Drive
The attempt of the Evening School 
to collect its quota for the Commu
nity Fund and The United War 
Fund was begun last Friday eve
ning and will be continued through
out this week. The few people con
tacted thus far have shown a spirit 
of generosity, especially in view of 
the fact that practically every Eve
ning School student has already
floor.
Lets all show our appreciation to 
the Entertainment Committee in the 
excellent job they are doing in the 
collecting of an assortment of novel 
entertainers. The one thought they 
have in mind is to chase Old Man 
Gloom away and make you really 
laugh, a good laugh. There will also 
be singing, off key, on key, just any 
old key. You dont have to sing 
good, just make it loud.
There is also another point to en
tice you. The Refreshment Commit
tee has planned a snack that would 
put Maws snacks to shame. They 
really are holding up their end.
However, the serious part of the 
evening is the work pertaining to 
the radification and inauguration of 
the changes in the Constitution 
whereby all departments anci classes 
may secure better representation of 
the Evening Student Council.
Letter To The Editor
After filtering through one of 
Techs numerous Evening School 
courses, I have become sufficiently 
familiar with the Tech campus that 
I can reach my present classes via 
several devious routes, but there is 
still a lot left unknown, I fear. In 
fact, I seem to be a member of the 
too numerous corps of students that 
merely exist on the campus.
Is there some way in which the 
PLAID can introduce us to the tra
ditions, the functions, the buildings 
and courses; And also tell us more 
about the Student Council? The 
news in the PLAID concerning the 
council helps but couldnt we meet 
and hear the plans of its members? 
Im sure we would feel that its 
interest in the students is whole
hearted.
contributed to the Funds through 
his place of employment. This gen
erosity is sincerly appreciated for 
it shows the willingness of each stu
dent to cooperate in the schools 
endeavor to do its part. When you 
are approached in the halls this 
week, drop a little of that change 
(pennies, nickels, dimes, quarters, 
car checks) you carry in your pock
ets into the solicitors box. Every 
little bit counts and youll never 
miss it for the smile that goes with 
the Thank you will more than 
repay you.
C. S. EDMAN .
Printer
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0183
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
What can one discuss on the eve 
of this hectic election, for everyone, 
it seems, wants to discuss the pros 
and cons of the Pittsburgh munici
pal candidates, especially here at 
Carnegie Tech? All of which proves 
somethingcall it civic pride if you 
will, but its a good sign. And to 
all indications, this years collection 
for the United War Fund will be 
the best of the past few years 
thanks to our dliigent lady workers, 
Arlene McMurray, Nancy Lewis, 
Virginia Ehni and Emma Jean Shaf
fer. Whenever one feels down and 
blue, he has but to think of Mr. 
Shaffers chasing about the campus 
in quest of Community Fund dona
tions to reach the depths of despair. 
And incidentally, for an example of 
persistence unequalled one had but 
to see Arlene McMurray grasping 
the young men by the lapel asking 
for donations during the drive Fri
day evening. . . .
The detailed planning of the So
cial Committee, headed by Frank 
Michelic, cannot fail to produce 
some very good evening school so
cial functions. This prediction will 
be more than substantiated by the 
success of our affairs. . . .
While the induction of Bob Brown 
into the armed forces was a sur
prise to all here at school, his recent 
marriage was very pleasant news 
to his friends. To Bob and his bride 
we extend the best of wishes.
A sure sign that life is returning 
to normal after all these war-torn 
years  a young couple parked in 
their car just outside of Adminis
tration Hall, oblivious to all but 
themselves. That used to be a sure 
sign of spring once upon a time. . . .
Wonder if Harold Park has given 
up evening school after having re
ceived his degree last year. Me 
thinks twenty years of evening 
school is a habit difficult to break 
so abruptly. . . .
Tis reported that Joe Rymar, that 
genial personality of Student Coun
cil, went to the Icecapades the other 
evening with the intention of learn
ing how to skate  especially figure 
skate.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News Editor
Frank Mihelich
Associate Editors
Virginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner 
Martha Borkovich 
Betty Hopkins 
Florence Kelly 
Mary Kolson 
Irene Koemer 
Emma Jean Lewis 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Joy A. Ridgeway
Arlene McMurray 
Edw. E. McDonald 
Ann Rawlings 
Joseph M. Rymar 
Anne Sheck 
Dorothy Shields 
Fred L. Vichich 
Cecille Zellner 
Jck Ggyffy.
