freo
?c?ui_NJ
?
VOL. VII. No. 1?cVOL.IL NLo1OIoct wo1aatsn iIggshlV.1n icbeogahLV rn mdm,b
SEASON STARTS SATURDAY
A DAY OF FESTIVITY
Student Body Welcomes the Plebes 
and the Hatchet is Buried
It was a night long to be remembered, 
jn fact, with few exceptions, the biggest 
ight ever seen at Carnegie Tech. The 
udents were there, practically all of 
hem, and many visitors crowded the 
grandstand. Possibly for fear of some 
unknown treachery on the part of the 
Sophs, the Plebes met at a place unknown 
and marched to the field in a body. Upon 
their arrival, the huge bonfire was lit,
I wood for which they had carried over
from the campus in the morning under
* the direction of the Senior Class.
The first thing on the program of course, 
was some rousing music by the school 
band, whose fame, by-the-way, is far more 
than local. The torch was applied to the 
immense pile of wood, fully thirty feet in 
diameter and twenty feet high. As soon as 
the flames reached their fuses, several 
dozen roman-candles, fastened inside a 
barrel at the top of the pile let go and 
the sight was one of splendor. Was there 
light? The bonfire was not the only 
source. Along the front and sides of the 
grandstand was a thick row of Chinese
and Japanese lanterns, beautifully illumi
nated with electricity, from wires especial
ly strung for the occasion.. A large and 
powerful searchlight was placed in one of 
the upper windows of the Field House, and 
its rays followed the most interesting events 
on the field. Then, too, there was the 
moon, shining down in aU the splendor 
of a cool September evening, and seeming 
to enjoy the festivities below, for who 
could fail to participate in the joys of 
that night?
After the marshals had separated the 
men on the field into four groups according 
to their classes, each man was given a 
paper mache hat, different kinds to desig
nate the different classes. The Seniors 
looked quite dignified in yellows hats 
which seemed to be a cross between a 
skull cap, to typify their advanced age, and 
a dunce-cap to remind one of their superior 
(?) learning. In addition they wore
yellow scarfs. The Juniors wore dark
green hats of the Panama shape; the hats 
of the Sophs were similar in shape but 
red and white in color. The headgear of 
the Plebes wTas white, as is befitting in 
those so young.The girls from the Mar
garet Morrison School, who occupied one 
section of the grandstand, sang some of 
heir school songs and the boys on the 
field answered With Amici, under the 
eadership of the inimitable Mr. McDowjell 
vho, we rejoice, is with us again this year.
 Continue i on page 3
1916 WINS CONTESTS
Sophs Fail to Hold the Infants
Following the annual custom, the Fall 
Contests for Class Supremacy between the 
Sophs and the Plebes were held on Tech 
Field on Friday, September 27. School 
was suspended for the afternoon, and 
students and their friends were present in 
full force. Margaret Morrison girls were 
noticeable by reason of their quantity 
and their very evident partisanship. The 
members of this school were not allowed 
to take part, but could safely have done 
so, as all of the events were perfectly 
ladylike out of respect to Vaccination 
Marks.
Dr. Marks prescribed the program, 
which included wrestling matches, an 
Indian ball game, a relay race, a tug-of-war 
and a five-inning baseball game.
The wrestlers were strictly examined to 
make sure that they belonged in their 
respective classes, were not candidates for 
the Varsity eleven, and did not have 
sore arms. Then they were allowed to 
grapple with their respective opponents. 
In the light-weight class, A. A. Frey, 15 
had some difficulty in throwing F. Zam
brano, 16, but once down, soon pinned 
the Filipinos shoulders to the ground. 
P. Seyler, 15, won two straight bouts 
from W. L. Birchfield, 16, after some 
interesting work in the middle-weight 
class. The heavies furnished the closest 
bouts but the Sophs won for the third 
time through their champion, E. W. Krampert, who threw S. E. Fry twice in succes
sion. Score: Sophs 3; Plebes 0.
The Indian ball game furnished lots 
of excitement for the contestants and 
another victory for the upper classmen. 
Fifteen men were on a side, playing with 
an association foot-ball but without any 
apparent rules. The final score was 3 to
1. The event counted three more points 
for 1915.
The relay race was the sensation of the 
day and furnished excitement and amuse
ment in abundance. Each class furnished 
60 men, each of whom, by various modes of 
travel, carried a handerchief for a fifth 
of a lapone-twenty-fifth of a mile and 
passed it on to another of the sixty. The 
variety of combinations was almost end
less. Fat boys ran against lean ones, 
tall ones against short ones; some ran like 
proverbial ice-wagons, while their oppo
nents ran like proverbial something else 
not mentioned outside of Sunday schools; 
one fellow slid the final half oi the distance, 
and another rolled ^one started to run
Continued on
The football season will be inaugurated 
this year with a game against Penn State 
at State College, Pa., on Saturday Oct. 5. 
This is the hardest game of the series, but 
its place at the head of the schedule is 
well deserved. The State team has always 
been a bunch that know and play football 
better than any other team in this section, 
and our men are bound to be improved 
to an enormous extent. Of course we 
hope to win, but in case we dont, the 
game will have been one to be remembered 
by the Center County boys. Our team 
looks better now than at any previous 
similar period, and our prospects are al
most bright enough to boast about, a 
course that is never safe. The one thing 
we do know is that the boys will play to 
win from start to finish, and some two 
thousand rooters here will be pulling for 
the team while they play in the middle 
of the state.
Manager Finkel has announced his 
schedule in full, having arranged an inter
esting card of contests. It follows:
Oct. 5 . ..Penn State..............State College
Oct. 12.. Waynesburg...............Tech Field
Oct. 19..Wash. & Jefferson... .Washington
Oct. 26...Grove City.................Tech Field
Nov. 2....Bethany.....................Tech Field
Nov. 9. ..Westminster...............Tech Field
Nov. 16 ,.Mt. Union-Scio.........Alliance, O.
Nov. 23..Haverford...................Tech Field
Nov. 28..Buchtel.........................Akron, O.
HAZING AT M. M. C. S.
It began Thursday morning at the cor
ner of Forbes and Woodlawn. Theres 
a Plebe, make her take it down!and so 
the pretty, little, round-faced Plebe was 
divested, as were many others of hat,
combs, hair-pins, barrettes and; Sh! rats 
and switches, and soon she appeared a 
dear little Sis Hopkins with five braids 
and green ribbons at the end of each pig
tail. Several Plebes tried to be rebellious 
and one fierce female unsheathed a hatpin 
which was soon taken away from her.
The boys enjoyed it too and took several 
snap shots of the fray. After the Plebes 
had been escorted to school by the noble 
Sophs there was a wild dash of the Tech 
Laddies toward the corner, and there 
they hunted for trophies. If you see a 
hairpin dangling on a watch chain you may 
know that the owner of the pin was a 
rebellious Plebe.
And then the march to the Institute' 
and the interference of the Juniors. The 
Juniors tried to make the Plebes put their 
hair up and their hats on and as a result 
the parade across the hollow was not a 
parade. The Plebes certainly did look too 
sweet for anything with those pretty green 
beauty-patches. Did you notice them? 
One of the Plebes thought she was a flower 
and got in the flower bed. She was so 
green we hardly noticed her.
After the meeting the Sophs took the 
Plebes back to school while they sang 
all of the popular airs. At the top of the 
hill the Tartan photographer stopped 
them, when all of a sudden a wild impulse 
led the Plebes to break away, and such 
an undignified rush down the muddy 
trail! Not at all a befitting thing for 
M. M. C. S. girls to do, but then, they 
are only Plebes and dont know any better 
so we will have to excuse them.
LOST: Combs, barrettes, switches and 
rats. Apply to Miss Moore.
o
A WEIGHTY MATTER
Where in the world is Fat? School 
is not the same place without her.
PLEBES CARRYING WOOD FOR THE BIG BONFIRE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
2
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
PITTSBURGH, PA., OCT. 3, 1912.
BOARD OF EDITORS 
Donald D. Mitchell, 13 Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14 Business Editor
Edward E. Duff, Jr., '13.......News Editor
C. B. Kline, 13...................Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, '09 ........Alumni Editor
Albert E. Ball, 13...............Science Editor
A. II. Good, 14...................Design Editor
During the coming year The Tartan 
will not follow the plan of free distribution 
used last year, but will be given only to 
those holding the subscription cards. These 
cards may be purchased for one dollar 
from the Business Manager or his assist
ants and will entitle the holder to one 
copy of each issue of The Tartan, includ
ing all special issues. To those not hold
ing the cards The Tartan will be sold at 
the rate of five cents per copy for the 
regular issues and ten cents per copy for 
the special numbers.
The purchase of the subscription card 
now means a considerable saving during 
the year and all are urged to do this as 
soon as possible. The success of every 
college paper depends largely upon the 
measure of support given it by the student 
body, and The Tartan Board trusts that 
it may have the hearty co-operation of 
each and every student in making The 
Tartan a paper worthy of our Alma Mater.
PLEBE
To you who will wear that name this 
coming year, this article is intended, in 
hopes that you may become worthy of 
your Alma Mater.
You have come here to work, and you 
will have to work if you are going to stick, 
yet with all that is scheduled for you, your 
own welfare and the welfare of the school 
demands that you do not put all your 
time on your books. There are certain 
college traditions which have been estab
lished which it is the duty of every man to 
follow, and which he should take pride in 
following; there are certain activities in 
which each man can find a place, and there 
are certain social events which give still 
others a chance. No man is expected to 
enter all branches, neither is any man 
expected to be a star in any one, yet each 
can do his part.
You are expected to wear your green 
cap, not because the Sophomores tell 
you, but because it is an established 
tradition lived up to by all previous 
classes. Loud socks and ties and prep 
school insignia are likewise tabooed, not 
alone by the Sophs, but by school tradi
tions, both here and at other colleges.
You are asked to become acquainted 
by sight with the different members of
the faculty and administration as well as 
the Captains of all varsity teams, the 
Editors-in-Chief of The Thistle and The 
Tartan, the President of the Musical and 
Dramatic Clubs, and  the different class 
presidents, and to speak to these persons, 
by some sign of recognition, not for 
any particular honor to them, but for 
your own good, as these persons are the 
leaders in their departments and are all 
worthy examples to follow.
Make up your mind that you will do 
something for your school in return for 
what your Alma Mater does for you, .and 
if it takes you four years to do it, all well 
and good, but DO IT.
o
VACCINATION
While the Department of Student 
Health has been giving us all that same 
treatment for the past two or three weeks, 
we cannot but feel that we were doing our 
duty as citizens to submit to the vacci
nation and in so doing, help prevent the 
spread of a dreadful disease. If there are 
any who have at this time not been vacci
nated, either intentionally or not, let them 
see to it at once, as you do not have your 
own health alone at stake, but the health 
of over 2,500 others in the schools who 
would be subject to the disease.
Do you appreciate howjnuch you, as an 
individual student, and the undergradu
ate body as a whole are dependent upon 
the advertisers in our publications? Do 
you know that the Tartan which costs 
you three cents, as a subscriber, actually 
costs eleven cents? The advertisers make 
up the difference.
Now let us get down to brass tacks. 
It is up to -every student when he has 
something to btiy to see if he cant give 
his trade to an advertiser. Also he should 
tell the clerk that he is from Carnegie 
Tech. Did you ever do that? You will 
be given far better service and sometimes 
a discount if you do. Try it.
A new era in the life of the Design 
School is now commencing. A new school 
year is beginning with many trials and 
tribulations for the new ones, and all are 
to start in on the work of another year. 
Some are back to pick up the threads 
which they dropped perhaps rather hastily 
last June, and some to start in at the 
beginning to spin the web of their fancies 
artistically or practically as their natures 
permit, or as far and as long as circum
stances and time will allow. Even as 
we take up our work in the new 
building and strive toward the realization 
of that goal which each and everyone of us 
sets upon the horizon of our school lives, 
we are making history, not only for our 
Alma Mater, but for our own particular 
branch of Tech, the Design School. Every 
charrette that we pass through, and every 
change that we, as our own governing body 
see fit to make for the betterment of our
selves and to facilitate the carrying out 
the courses of study and design prescribed 
by the curriculum; all this together with 
the little things which make up oar every
day life will fill the pages of the history 
of our new school*
Hence, with pur present high standard 
of work as a basis on which to build, and
aided by the mature and excellent judg
ment of those under who jurisdiction we 
are placed, with all the facilities and 
conveniences which our new building 
affords, what is to prevent us from climb
ing eventually to heights hitherto un
known in the realm of Art? With all 
these advantages placed within the reach 
of every student, to be had merely for the 
striving, why should we not aspire to 
make our school the foremost in the 
country, not only in the standard of ex
cellence of work, but also in the excellence 
of good fellowship? Think what new 
worlds will be accessible to the budding 
genius in the fields of Drama, of Music, 
of Sculpture and Painting, and more than 
all, of Architecture!
We all realize how vastly lacking are the 
people of this, our country, in the matter 
of artistic taste; how little value or re
gard is placed on things above the sphere 
of mere moneygrubbing and how little 
understood are works of art. The time 
has come when every city should have 
its monumental buildings of good design 
and its department of City Planning. 
Why should not, then, the Design School 
of Tech be a means to an end in the matter 
of Civic improvements?
The display of true Carnegie spirit 
shown by the Plebes in their various 
activities in the short time they have 
been Sons of Tech is more than gratifying 
to the upper classmen. Such spirit is 
one of the essential qualities which go to 
make a successful far reaching institution. 
It is to be hoped that each one of the newly 
entered class will show the same spirit in 
informing himself of the purpose and duty 
of the Thistle, the annual publication of 
Carnegie Tech. The class rush, the moon
light festival, the athletic contests, the vic
tories of Carnegie in every field remain the 
most pleasant of memories. One's class
mates, the different gatherings, the clubs, 
the humorous occurrences, these, as well as 
every phase of college life are the things 
that make our school days the wonderful 
series of recollections it is. The Board 
elected by the Junior Class to incorporate 
by means of word and picture, these many 
features of school life in a compact form 
makes an effort to give space to each thing 
in school which is of interest to the stu
dent body.
The Thistle is worthy of the support 
of the entire student body and let each 
one come clean when he is approached 
by a solicitor for his subscription. With 
the true Son of Tech, it is not a question 
which requires deliberation, but rather a 
foregone conclusion that he should have a 
Thistle.
The 1913 Thistle will be the eighth 
volume of its kind. Each Thistle which 
has gone before has exceeded in quality 
the one which preceded it. In the same 
way the 1913 Thistle will be bigger and 
better than ever. Get together, Techites, 
and BOOST!
SUMMER WORK
During the past summer several hun
dred day students in the mens schools 
have been working in shops and mills in 
and near Pittsburgh, gaining money and 
experience which will be helpful during 
the coming year. In order that the stu
dents may gain, beforegraduation, some
part of the experience so essential in actual 
practice, every effort is made to place them 
in summer work directly in line with the 
course of studies they are pursuing at 
school. This practice is followed wherever 
possible, though of ten-times the demand 
for technical positions is greater than the 
supply and the student is forced to take 
whatever is offered. The desirability of 
summer employment is further emphasized 
by the fact that students who do well 
during the summer and become known to 
their employers have the advantage over 
others at graduation. This is recognized 
also by the industries themselves where 
students who can afford it are often allow
ed to work on low wages, merely for the 
sake of gaining valuable experience.
During the summer just past nearly 
250 students secured work through the 
Bureau of Student Aid which is conducted 
in connection with the Secretarys office. 
The following is a general summary of the 
positions filled and the approximate wages 
earned :
Nine students in the schools of Applied 
Science and Industries worked in Chemical 
Laboratories,earning approximately $3,000.
Sixteen from Applied Industries, work
ing in machine shops and foundries of the 
Pittsburgh District, making over $2,500.
As tutors, teachers in summer play
grounds, social settlement houses, etc., 
fourteen students made $1,520.
Twenty-one men from the three schools, 
working as mechanical, structural and 
architectural draftsmen and tracers, netted 
in the neighborhood of $4,000.
Thirty-five more earned $5,775 work
ing at electric wiring, telephone installa
tion, power-plant work, etc.
Fifteen others, chiefly from the depart
ment of Civil Engineering and Building 
Construction, made $2,700 on surveying 
corps and outside construction work.
Finally, twenty-three students from all 
three schools, earned $4,140 at clerical 
work.
In addition to these, a 'arge number 
worked at rough mill work, farming, 
soliciting and collecting and a variety of 
other lines of employment.
The above report includes only those 
positions filled by the Bureau of Student 
Aid and it is safe to say that practically 
all of the remainder of the students found 
employment in one line or another.
Horrors!!
Director Hameischlag boldly informed 
us that he looked into the eyes of each 
and every one of our faculty.
Horrors!
Here! Here! Young lady! What did 
I hear you say? I think it was something 
like this.
Just look at that! That little bit is all 
there is of M. M. C. S. news. Well 
dont let me hear you say it again until 
you yourself are blameless. Suppose you 
hand something in for the Tartan next 
Friday before three oclock.
We want something which is of interest 
to everyone. There are lots of things. 
We want funny things, i. e., real humor, 
not near funnies. We want announce
ments of marriages, births, and deaths 
and that is alla good stopping place, eh?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
Student Body Welcomes the Plebes 
and the Hatchet is buried
Continued from page one.
Then the members of the Glee Club, oc
cupying the center of the field, (and the 
limelight) sang through megaphones some 
of their old favorites, dear to the heart 
of every son and daughter of Carnegie 
Tech.
Then the snake dance began. Have 
you ever seen one? If you have, youll 
never forget it! Led by the band (playing 
Everybodys doin it and Hail, hail, the 
gangs all here) fully 800 men in single 
file and lock step, made various windings 
over the field, adhering to the old custom 
of left foot up. Then gradually out of 
the seeming chaos of twists and turns, the 
letter C evolved itself and occupied 
almost the entire circumference of the
SOPH-PLEBE INDIAN BALL GAME 'IN 
PROGRESS AND HEAPS OF WOOD 
READY FOR EONFIRE
field. Led by one cheer-leader in the 
centre, several of the school yells were 
given and a mighty shout went up to the 
sky. Before the C broke up, the Mar
garet Morrison girls, 150 strong, left their 
places in the grandstand, and led by Miss 
Stoner, marched upon the field and the 
men cheered them on with cries for the 
Maggie Murphs.
After the girls had resumed their places, 
the Seniors and Juniors also retired to the 
grandstand and the Sophs and Plebes 
lined up on either side of the field to wit
ness the ceremony of burying the hatchet. 
Wilson, representing the Sophs, and 
Dougherty for the Plebes, marched across 
the field to a point near the bonfire, a 
hole was dug and the hatche-t buried by 
them jointly in the most approved Indian 
fashion, this to typify the end of warfare 
and hard feeling between the two classes.
In the meantime, a number of Plebes 
were serving refreshments to the grandstand.t There were sandwiches, pickles, 
cider and pop galore, and then the under
classmen marched to the grandstand and 
received their eats. There was a great 
abundance of good things and the crowd 
became even more jolly and good natured. 
When the entire group, heads uncovered, 
had sung the Aima Mater, the regular
The Shape of Bottcm 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
I c i ri Witti Quality Shoes
6227 Penn Avenue 
6222 Frankstown Avenu*East End
program of the evening was finished, but 
as it was yet early, the Sophs and Plebes 
decided an another P-rade. Led by the 
band and a few upper classmen with paper 
lanterns, the line in single file started for 
Oakland by way of the Park. Several 
cheers were given on Forbes Street and 
the march proceeded down Fifth to town. 
Upon its arrival there, where the streets 
were full of the after theatre crowds, the 
the line, which reached from Smithfield to 
Wood Street, halted and informed every
body within several blocks in their usual 
gentle manner that they were from Car
negie Tech. Thence the parade proceed
ed to Penn Avenue and dispersed.
But what a night to be remembered! 
Long will it be talked of in the halls and 
corridors of our Alma Mater. All credit 
for the management of this gigantic cele
bration must go to the members of the 
StudentsWelfare Committee, who worked 
untiringly for the success of the arrange
ments. May we have many more such 
evenings!
1916 Wins Contest
Continued from page one. 
behind the backstop, but his competitor 
called him back and waited for his return. 
The classmen changed position in the race 
until the last relay, when a Plebe won by 
little more than a nose. Score: .Sophs 6; 
Plebes 5.
The tug of war was a failure as a contest. 
The Plebes, at the last moment, took out 
a weak little 125 pounder and substituted
E. W. Thoma, reputed to weigh 270 
pounds. Thus reinforced, the Freshies 
were slowly gaining when the contemptible 
Sophs broke the rope. No decision was 
rendered.
At this point a new sensation was 
sprung when J. R. Daugherty, 16, was 
brought into the field. Daugherty was 
suspected of being the class president and 
was captured about noon by his enemies, 
the Sophs. These took him to East 
Liberty and decorated him for the occa
sion, returning him to the scene of battle 
just after the tug-of-war. His costume, 
such as it was, was indescribable, save 
for the fact that it was mostly grease 
paint of many hues. He was immediately 
surrounded and protected fron. public 
gaze by his classmates until he was decent
ly clothed, when the baseball game was 
permitted to be started.
The last event was a real contest, for 
upon its results depended the decision 
of the afternoon. The Sophs scored 3 runs 
in the first inning, and led 5 to 2 at the 
end of their half of the fourth, but the 
Freshies bunched their wallops in the last 
of the fourth and made it 6 to 5. The 
second year men failed to score in the 
last stanza and the Plebes were victors 
for the afternoon by the score of 8 to < .
WHY NOT AN ESCALATOR?
A general survey of the new Design 
building impresses us with the complete
ness of our new quarters Order ii gradu
ally taking the place of apparent chaos. 
Many workmen of different nationalities 
are doing their best to finish the most 
essential parts in order that the school 
work may be begun and carried on with
as little hindrance as possible. We gaze 
with admiration and pride on the terra
cotta decoration; the interior court and 
the Grand Staircases. We have visions 
of Paris operas; of stately madames and 
grand seigneurs in gala attire, as we mount 
the staircase, stepping gingerly on the 
edges to keep from falling through.
Close inspection, however brings to 
light an appalling fact. We have three 
flights of stairs to climb every time we 
want to be (or ought to be) in the drafting 
room. Thmk ol it. Three flights and 
there is a rumor that our caps and coats 
are to hang in the basement. That 
makes four. Alas! and we used to walk ' 
in on the ground floor.
An exhaustive search fails to disclose 
private elevators for each individual or 
even a public lift. With a saddened mien 
we turn back to the staircases, when sud
denly an idea strikes us. Why not an 
escalator? Escalators are awfully nice. 
They move along so easily and tirelessly, 
and if they stop because of some kink 
in the machinery it is not our fault if we 
miss a class. Think how nice it would 
be to eat your frugal lunch upon it, with 
perhaps a fair coed by your side, as you 
slowly floated upward. How uplifting! 
And when you reached the top you could 
transfer and gently slide down the other 
side.
No longer would Mr. Bergey have to 
tramp up and down stairs hunting some 
recalcitrant student who should be at
tending a structural design class. Then 
during charette if some of the students 
should decide that the down stairs would 
look better in the drafting room how 
simple it would be to place it on the esca
lator anil take it up.
Indeed it would be a convenience, this 
escalator.
SCHENLEY FARM TERRACE 
17 houses nearing completion. Nine sold 
$13,000.00 to $17,000.00 complete.
Scbenley Farms Company
1412 Farmers Bank Building Phone Grant 3 
Dancing Deportment Aesthetics
McDougall Dancing Academies
Wood Street and Fifth Avenue, Downtown 
4614-16 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Penn and Shady Avenues, East Liberty
Students' White Overalls
For Sale at
?|etmertg
3614 Forbes Street, Iroquois Block 
Oakland
^[This is the place where all Tech boys 
go for up-to-date haberdashery.
YOURE NEXTTech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-AH. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC Headquarters for Band and Orchestra Instruments, Music and Supplies 
No 601 Ohio Street tit o nm (. i. TD corner of Middle JN. o.t Pittsburgh, Fa.
MARGARET MORRISON GIRLS ON A RAT HUNT

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
DIRECTOR ADDRESSES FACULTY 
AND STUDENTS
On Friday, Sept. 27, the Faculty and 
day students of the four schools assembled 
in the lecture hall of the Carnegie Institute 
to hear the welcoming address of Director 
Hammerschlag. After announcing the 
program for the day, which included the 
annual contests between the Sophomore 
and entering classes, and the new cere
mony of a fall festival and Peerade, 
the participants in the afternoon battle 
for supremacy were requested to enter 
them with a spirit of fairness and fighting 
to the end.   When the various announce
ments were made, the officers of the Ad
ministration and the Deans of the several 
schools and the recently appointed as
sistant Dean of the Margaret Morrison 
school, Miss Higgins, were called to the 
platform and introduced to the student 
body. The credit for the new buildings 
was duly given to Mr. Hornbostel, the 
Architect of the schools and for the new 
equipment to Mr. Orbin, through whose 
untiring efforts, better facilities were made 
ready for us at the opening of school. 
Our Founder was given the credit which is 
more than due to him for establishing 
the work for betterment for the people 
of Pitsburgh in every line of intellectuality.
The address told somewhat of the past 
and future, the past being reviewed to 
show the growth of the schools during the 
seven years in which they have been open, 
this year breaking all records in every 
respect, enrollment, buildings, equipment, 
etc. Even though the buildings are new 
and the school is young, the spirit is old and 
of a kind that will live always.
The four schools were next mentioned 
together with a fifth and sixth school 
which represent our future development.
The Director paid a glowing tribute to 
the work being done in the Womans 
school, and the progress made in the de
velopment of the home and intellectual 
senses of the girls.
The progress of the School of Applied 
Industries was next mentioned, the pro
gress which has lifted labor and skill and 
brought idealism to those who toil with 
mind and body.
In mentioning the School of Applied 
Science, the Director said that although 
the methods employed were new and differ
ent from the older schools of engineering 
in the country, our graduates were more 
than able to cope with the graduates of 
the older schools.
In speaking of the Fifth and the Sixth 
schools, for which demands have already 
been made, a school of Horticulture, 
Agriculture, Landscape Gardening and a 
Teachers College. This fifth school was 
made possible when our Founder pre
sented us with the farm, called Camp 
Louise Carnegie.
The demands for teachers has been 
made upon us by the city and county, 
therefore showing that we should have a 
TeachersCollege through which men and 
women give up their lives so that others 
might learn.
In closing the Director followed the 
traditions of educational institutions in 
presenting certain precepts for guidance 
during the year. The precepts are:
My first precept is a hope that every 
student here may in this year gain one 
cherished bosom friend. I know of no
art so valuable to men or women as the 
art of accumulating friends.
My second precept is that you may find 
in the member of this Faculty some one 
who will serve for you as an inspiration 
of a leading man or woman, so that your 
associations with that one person at least 
may enrich ^nd may beautify your study.
My third precept is, that I hope each 
of you may have today, on this glorious 
day for Pittsburgh, a dream equally glor
ious, that you will hug close to your souls; 
a dream that you may accomplish some
thing unselfish during the year on behalf of 
someone else or for the Institution; a 
dream which is not material, which may 
not give you even the slightest amount of 
prominence or credit from the standpoint 
of what other men think; something that 
you want to hug close to your soul as 
being your contribution to the race of 
your time, and I hope you will live to 
see your dream come true. I know of no 
satisfaction like the striving for the un.uttered dream, working for all those things 
which make the strife * * * and
winning out on that dream until it be
comes a real purpose in your life.
A certain Institution in Pittsburgh pro
poses to toss into the breeze a tartan flag, 
and with the beginning of this year I want 
to see that flag wave in victory three 
times:first, in the field of intellectuality; 
second, in the field of sociability; and 
third, in the field of conquest. In every 
competition, whatever its nature, that 
any students or any teachers indulge, 
let us fight and keep the flag waving
SUMMER SURVEYING AT CAMP 
LOUISE CARNEGIE
A new course in surveying for the Junior 
Mechanicals and Sophomore Metallurgists 
and Commercials, was started this year 
at Camp Carnegie, and its results spell 
success with a capital S.
In charge of Professors Stanton and 
Nicol of the Civil Department, assisted 
by students of the Civil Department, the 
parties were given instruction in the 
fundamentals of plane surveying for two 
weeks, at the end of which time both 
the instructors and the instructed felt 
that it was time well spent.
Coming at a time just before the open
ing of school, the two weeks spent in the 
tents seemed like a vacation to many who 
had worked all summer. First call for 
breakfast at 6:30 brought many a groan 
until the Mechanicals stole the ham, but 
breakfast at 7 A. M. found everybody up 
except Mr. Nicol who said he couldnt 
sleep till Mr. Stanton got up.
P. S. Mr. Stanton says he doesnt 
snore, but---------.
Lecture at 7:45 from the boss gave 
everyone a start for the day, and from 
that on until 4:30 it was steady going with 
an occasional time out for Skinny 
Clair to get a rest. Lunch at twelve only 
acted as a sample and dinner at 6 kept 
Larry busy. It was after me youre 
first, with everyone except Miller who 
said he really didnt want any beans any
way.
Director Hamerschlag, accompanied by 
two members of the Margaret Morrison 
faculty, paid us a visit on Sunday, and 
felt well repaid for their trip after the din
ner they had.
Until Dr. Marks arrived on the job,
arrowNotch COLLARS
MEDORA ZVs in. CHESTER 2 in.
2 for 25 et. i UETT, PEABODY & CO.. Maker
with his friend vaccine, swimming proved 
the best sport. The most thrilling inci
dent occurred when Schneider rescued 
Patterson from three feet of water, but 
even now Pat says he was only fooling.
Freeport had its charms for those who 
had the money, and Seitzs Opera House 
gave special attention to Carnegie Tech 
men.
Re-examinations broke up the parties 
and on Monday the twenty-third, the 
camp dismissed.
Just to show the men who missed the 
trip, that we were well treated, the fol
lowing menu is attached.
DINNER 
Camp Louise Whitfield Carnegie 
at The Mansion.
MENU 
Mott Turtle Soup.
Fried Chicken Orbin Style.
Hot Waffles a la Wideline 
Au Gratin Potatos Hamersclilag-ed. 
Some Moore Candied Sweets 
Lima Beans 
Corn on Cob 
Fruit Salad Stanton-ize 
Assorted Cakes 
Duffs Phila. Ice Cream 
Mixed Nuts 
New Cheese recommended by Dr. Marks 
Sal tine Crackers 
Nicol Coffee, Milk or Ice Tea
STAFF
S. L. McDONNELL..................Steward
W. H. WHEELER.................................Chef
E. R. DEEMS..............................}
B. H. BRISCOE........... ) Servers
Sunday, Sept. 15th, 1912.
BALLOON FOUND
The big balloon sent up on Friday night, 
was found by Mr. J. Edward Hasley of the 
Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad Com
pany in Schenley Park, near the race track.
Mr. Hasley receives the reward of a 
season football ticket as promised by the 
committee.
The old system of using a heated iron 
and dirty cloth presses the grime and 
dirt into your garments. Our sanitary 
machine steams it all out, and removes 
permanently the dirt, perspiration, odor 
and grime. See Shuman the Dry Cleaner, 
3911 Forbes Street.
Dancing Deportment Aesthetics
McDougall Dancing Academies
Wood Street and Fifth Avenue, Downtown 
Penn and Shady Avenues, East Liberty 
High School Class Friday afternoon 3:30
Enterprise Pressing CompanyCleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies Childrens and 
Household Work
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office: 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
Chocolates
BETWEEN FRIENDS
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better she likes it.
R E Y M E R S
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops.
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
Eat
a r o w K
Get them at the Beanery.
Pterpotit, Sioiter & Co.
EngravingPrintingEmbossing
Invitations and announcements for all occasions
i 19 SHADY AVENUE
Phones 358 and 359 Hiland
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
Ma.c DONALDS
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, Dainty Lunch. 
Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, 
Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
our early selection will enable you to se-____ cure the Latest Novel-ties in Imported and Domestic Fabrics.
SAI LOP
TAILOR
706-707 Peoples qnk Bldg.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
Just Right Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
Just Right Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemens profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
City Office; East End Office;
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum Stree
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor .Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts*
Catastrophes Foretold
APPLIED DESIGN
The Design School started all classes 
Monday morning, September 30th, in the 
new building. If in Pittsburgh, Mr. Hornbostel will deliver an address to the Design 
students at 10:00 A. M. every Monday 
morning, as usual, he will talk to the stu
dents on architectural planning. It will 
not be necessary for the Plebes to be present 
at these lectures until they have reached 
Class B plan problems, as the lectures deal 
only with subjects essential to Class B 
and Class A plan.
It is advisable to take notes on these 
lectures, as an examination on the work 
covered, will be given at the end of each 
term. Mr. Ferrand is ill in Paris, but 
expects to be back in time to help on the 
first Class A plan. Mr. Campbell, who 
has been studying and sketching in 
France, Spain and Italy during the past 
two years, will be with us again tlr's year. 
Those of us who were in school three 
years ago will be glad indeed to welcome 
him back, while the rest of us are anxious 
to make his acquaintance and verify for 
ourselves the wondrous tales told by the 
older students.
Dean Hewlett and Mr. Mac Goodwin 
are very much in evidence welcoming 
back the older students and receiving and 
classifying the new ones.
It has not been definitely decided yet 
just how the work of criticizing the studentsj projets, but the work. will prob
ably be divided among the different in
structors. Mr. Mac Goodwin wants to 
spend the most of his time with the 
Class A and Class B men, criticizing 
their drawings and giving general advice 
along architectural lines. Dean Hewlett 
would like to call the attention of the 
students in sculpture and decoration to the 
terra-cotta work on the Design bailding. 
He wants them to take particular notice 
of the jointing of the different pieces of 
terra-cotta to make up the decoration en 
masse.
M. M. C. S. NEWS
Many and varied are the changes that 
have been made in the Margaret Morrison 
School this last summer. For the first 
few days all that was heard were the 
Ohs and Ahs of the students as these 
different wonders were disclosed to them. 
Our poor old locker room, the scene of 
many a disaster, has taken on an alto
gether different appearance. With Miss 
Baldwins name now on the door, the 
tragedies portrayed within will be of an 
altogether different species, we opine. 
It is a case of Back to the laundry with 
our lockers. We confess that heretofore 
the contents of some of them have been 
only too far away from the aforemen
tioned place.
However, the most vital changes which 
have taken place are, a^ every one knows, 
the changes in our faculty. With the 
departure of our Dean we are going to have 
the altogether new and thrilling experience 
of having a man at the head of our School, 
and more thrilling still, that of having 
Director Hamerschlag. He seems to anti
cipate great enjoyment from his little 
adventure, and we hope that his antici
pations will be realized. We assure you 
that the scheme is a most satisfactory one
to us. We also give a most hearty wel
come to Miss Higgirs who is already win
ning the hearts of the girls, and who has 
already shown herself to be a most able 
assistant to the director. We hope that 
she will never regret having left the 
Balmy South to come to this smokiest 
of Smoky Cities and that the pleasure 
which she will get out of her work will 
more than recompense for whatever sacri
fices she may have made.
There was another change made in the 
faculty this summer while we were all 
away and could have no voice in the 
matter which most of us feel is of almost 
personal interest to us. A certain Miss 
Josephine Bray was stolen from our midst. 
We have nothing to say about her own 
willingness to be a victim, but knowing 
her as we do, we know that she is always 
and ever blameless. As for the culprit 
himself, we learned on returning to school, 
that he is making a most noble effort to 
fill up in our school the vacancy which he 
has so boldly made. We appreciate his 
most noble aims, and we will be mor e than 
willing to congratulate him when he has 
accomplished his desired task. However, 
we now extend to Professor Sill our hearty 
congratulations and to Professor and Mrs. 
Sill our very best wishes.
And still there are more changes. The 
departure of each one of our faculty who 
left us last spring was felt with the keenest 
regret by the students. Dr. Martin 
What girl didnt love her? Miss Braat, 
whose cheery words and miles of smiles 
made many a heart lighter; Miss Cauble, 
who was loved and admired by every girl 
who was personally connected with her.
We hope that we have not seen the 
last of these teachers, and we welcome 
most heartily those who have come to 
take their places.
She Was from Missouri
Professor Jordan, the corn expert of the 
Missouri College of Agriculture, tells a 
story illustrative of the suspicion with 
which people often view new ideas and in
ventions. In pioneer days a settler near the 
present town of Albany, Mo., bought for 
his wife the first cook-stove ever seen in 
that part of the state.
It was an object of great curiosity, and 
the womans next-door neighborwho 
lived ten miles awaycame to see how it 
would work.
Without comment she saw the dinner 
cooked; she ate the meal with judgment 
held in reserve, and then remarked, with 
a shake of the head:
Well, Sarah, it cooks all right, and the 
victuals taste good, but I dont believe it 
will ever be a success.
There is a man in an English town whose 
name is Burst. It is a misfortune that 
would not have attracted much attention 
if he had not called his two children Annie 
May and Ernest Will.
Its First Use
Maria, said a business man, residing 
in the suburbs, to his wife, you have been 
wanting a telephone in the house for a 
long time. The workmen will come and 
put one in to-day. Call me up, after they 
have gone away, to see if its works all right.  
Late in the afternoon there was a call 
at the telephone in his office down town.
Putting the receiver to his ear, he recog
nized the voice of his wife, pitched in a 
somewhat high key.
Is that you, James? she asked.
Yes.
Will you please go out right now and 
mail that letter I gave you this morning? 
He had forgotten it, of course, and he 
obeyed.
Genuine, all Right
Yes, said a girl who is a determined 
autograph hunter, it is one of the best I 
have in my collection.
But are you sure it is genuine?
Quite. I cut it from a telegram that 
his wife received from him.
Monongahela House
J. B. KELLEY, Manager
European Plan
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the eatinsfor yourdoins
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
Home Made 
CAKES AND CANDIES
Fresh every day at both our stores
#eo. Wi. ^tcbension & Co.606 Wood St., Downtown Highland and Center Aves., E. E.
<ISome hats have more style 
than quality-some the reverse. 
The best combination of both 
style and quality you will 
find at
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
6100 Penn Ave.
Open Evenings Monday and Saturday
ONE OF THE LITTLE ONES
The accompaning cut is a reproduction of one of the fish which our honored 
Editor-in-Chief claims to have caught on a fly, during his (mental) wanderings this 
summer. Thiss one of the smallest. The big ones got away. Our Editor-inChief is some fisherman.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
CAMPS BENEFITS EVIDENT
Gridiron Stars Become Luminous
Long before the first call for registration 
was issued, a small band of the schools 
huskies gathered together and began the 
preliminary work of getting into condi
tion. Gradually this number was in
creased until, on the first day of school, 
forty men reported for practice on the 
field. The number and the quality of the 
men have been remarkable for Carnegie 
Tech, and should lead the dopesters to 
watch us carefully.
Following the idea inaugurated last fall, 
Manager William Finkel went to an enor
mous amount of trouble in preparing for 
an early training season at Camp Louise 
Whitfield Carnegie. Aided by the school 
authorities, he secured the old Reed prop
erty, a part of the farm, for the use of the 
athletes, and installed two chefs and as 
much furniture as could be secured. Over 
a hundred men had sent in inquiries 
about arrangements, but, discounting this 
number, Manager Bill fixed up accomo
dations for forty. The total number of 
men reporting was in excess of the capacity 
but on account of examinations, the high
est number in the house at any one time 
wTas not over thirty-five
The headquarters of the squad was a 
small two-story frame house about a mile 
from Garvers Ferry, and almost a mile 
and one-half fiom the Mansion. It 
is at the head of a small lane, which 
branches from the main road, and on a 
dark night could be found and indentified only by the sounds of hilarity peculiar 
to such a gathering as it housed. Other
wise it was a quiet place and afforded an 
ideal home for the foot-ballers. An out
house was fitted out as a bath house, 
with an ingeniously made showTer.
The days program was opened by a 
rising call at 6:30. At 7 oclock all of the 
men reported to Captain Frank Crawford 
for a cross-country hike. Captain Frank 
is a National Guardsman with long ex
perience in forced marches, and most of 
the men returned to the house at the end 
of the half-hours walk with little capacity 
for conversation. A hearty breakfast, 
a la training table, restored their spirits 
and left them with a leisure period until
10 oclock. Promptly on the hour the 
squad would appear on the foot-ball field 
to indulge in light practice work, lasting 
until 12. Then all returned to the house 
for lunch. Another rest period followed 
lasting until 3 oclock, when all reported 
at the field. Coach Marks and Assistant 
Coach Cozens put the men through a 
stiff course in the fundamental parts of the 
game thac put each man into touch with 
himself and his team-mates, not to men
tion the ground. This ended at 5 oclo.k 
and a break for home and supper 
wound up the proceedings. The men 
were allowed until ten oclock to select 
their methods of recreation and put th^m 
into practice, but lights out was the 
imperative ending of the routine.
While the rumbar of last years team 
who are back again is small, there have 
never before been so many good players of 
preparatory school experience among the 
recruits. Added to these are many of 
last years substitutes who show up as 
probable ngilars. So early in the seasoi
it is almost impossible to pick out the 
good men from the squad for comment, 
but a few possible stars are beginning 
to be noticeable. One of these is Clair, 
the heavy-weight of last years team. He 
has been practicing punts and drop-kicks 
and, to judge from present form, should 
be our mainstay in that department. Hubler, a new recruit, also showed up well in 
kicking as well as carrying the ball, but 
received an injury to his leg in the second 
practice on the home field and will be out 
of the game for some time. Many others 
have shown ability, so many, in fact, that 
wre can only say they are all good and the 
prospects for a winning .team are better 
than at any time for several years.
The coaching squad includes three of 
the best to be found. Mr. McColloch 
has assisted in training three of our teams 
and is .familiar with the kind of material 
which must be formed into a team. Dr. 
Marks, a player of national renown, is 
still the school physician, but has in addi
tion volunteered his services as coach, and 
will have charge of the squad. Another 
former All-American star has been work
ing hard to put the leam in shape. This is 
Ernie Cozens, famous Penn center and 
chosen for twro successive years as the 
best player of the position in the collegiate 
world.
With such a squad and such a coaching 
staff we should take a great stride this 
year toward fulfilling the prediction of 
Mr. E. M. Thierry as written in the Foot
ball Guide for 1912. He writes: Carnegie 
Tech, during its few years of existence, has 
been hampered in foot-ballas are most 
all technical schoolsby the unusually 
hard curriculum, making it difficult for 
students to get out for practice. There 
w'ere lots of material, plenty of enthusiasm 
and athletic inclination, but studies stood 
in the way. This is not often the case 
where college foot-ball is concerned, but 
Carnegie Tech is different. There were 
2,500 students to pick from, but their 
hands were literally tied.
Right here, I desire to make the pre
diction that in ten of fifteen years Car
negie Tech will rank athletically with the 
biggest colleges in the country. More 
millions are being spent on buildings than 
in any other institution of learning in the 
world, and in that space of time there will 
probably be twrice as many students. At 
no great future date Carnegie Tech will 
be a foot-ball power to be reckoned with 
nationally.
GYMNASIUM NOTES
SATISFACTORY SERVICE SURE
MURDOCH, KERR & CO.
Printers of Programs, Booklets, Catalogs 
Strawberry and Cherry Ways
True ValuesTrue Values B & B
mackinaw coats
All Wool Fosston fabricDeluth cold weather sport Coats 
cold proof, storm proof, made to stand hard wearfor skating, shoot
ing, fishing, golf, motor wearinclude them in the regular equipment 
of football squadsplain colors, bold plaids, belt all aroundpleated 
back and front from yoke downall sizes, $9.00.
Boggs & Buhl,
Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
Of Course Not.
William, said the teacher of the 
Sheldon-Chicago school, you may 
give me a short essay on what you 
think of early rising. You know the 
early bird is the one that catches the 
worm.
William, aged twelve, evidently 
didnt think so for this is the essay he 
turned in:
Early to bed and early to rise 
Should make you healthy, wealthy, and wise.
But you wont meat many promi
nent people.
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Kerchow.
Physical Director F. A. Eyman, who 
has succeeded Mr. McCulloch to that 
position, is working on a schedule of 
gymnasium classes, and will start them as 
soon as possible. The students who are 
conditioned in the Student Health department will be required to take part, while 
it will be optional with others. All should 
report for work as its value is realized 
only by those who have taken part.
Mr. McCulloch has in course of pre
paration, plans for a series of footba 1 
gamas between teams from the Plebe an 1 
Soph classes of the different schools. 
These will play for the championship of 
the school, it being probable that a cup 
will be offered for the series.
The brakeman opened the door of 
the car and called out the name of the 
station the train was approaching. The 
elderly woman roused herself with a 
jerk.
Where are we, Bobby? she asked. 
I dont know, grandma, answered 
the little boy.
Didnt the brakeman say something 
just now?
No. He just stuck his head inside 
the door and sneezed.
Help me with these things, Bob
by. she exclaimed hurriedly. This 
is Oshkosh. Its where we get off.
F.rie Magazine.
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
Bell phone 1587 Court P. & A. phone 3112
WHITTINGTON & CO.
6001-2-3 Jenkins 
Arcade 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
For Hire
Full Dress Suits, Frock 
Coats, Tuxedos, Silk Hats,
White Vests, Striped 
Trousers, Opera Hats,
Black Suits for Funerals. iSgSS
NewPlace, New Suits, 
New Styles
Best service west
of New York
BRANCHES: 
?IOoIOOcI In e1Ia
?tLjLtcOf e1Ia
xLgVaIgn pIo1b
Strange Coincidence
So you didnt know that my wife and   II vC T T Cu C
I were bom on the same day  said No 1 |y|g||0n 1131101131 B3I1K
No, thats queer, answered No. 2. It 
reminds me that my wife and I were mar
ried on the same day.
------------ 514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Not On the Bill of Fare
A big Yankee from Maine, paying hi; 
bill in a London restaurant, was told that 
the sum put down dilnt include the waiter 
Wal. he roared, I didnt eat any waiter, 
did I?
Capital ani Su?plus $7,800,000

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
FACULTY TOURNAMENT
For the purpose of having some exercise 
before winter sets in, it has been decided 
to perpetrate a Round Robin Tournament 
among all the membe rs of the Faculty 
who care to compete. So far there have 
been about thirty entries, and it is urgent
ly desired that all those who have entered 
get together at once and arrange for their 
matches. The tournament is to consist 
of the following contests:
1.Golf
2.Pool
3.Tennis
4.Billiards
5.Bridge
6.Hand-Ball
7.Bowling
8.Swimming
9.Squash
10.Shooting
Entry can be made for the entire ten 
contests, or for five contests, choosing 
one from each group.
An effort will be made to keep the ex
pense of these contests at a minimum.
The entrance fee for the Pentathalon 
will be announced by the Committee.
Each contestant must play every other 
contestant.
There will be no handicaps.
The points will be awarded on the fol
lowing basis: For instance, if there are 12 
entries the winner will be awarded 12 
points, the second man 11 points, the third 
man 10 points, etc.
The entrance fee for all contests will not 
exceed $1.00.
The tournament begins with the Tennis 
contest tomorrow, Saturday, all day.
Each contestant must play one set 
with every other contestant.
Entries must be made at once. Please 
sign below and indicate whether you de
sire to compete in all contests or in five 
only. It is desirable that as many as 
possible compete in all ten to insure a 
successful decathalon.
Committee on Arrangements 
Messrs. McCullough 
Leete 
Field
Committee on Entrance Fees and Points 
Messrs. Milligan 
Crabtree 
Dorweiler
NEW CAPTAIN ELECTED
cess. He is best, however, in the 100-yard, 
220-yard and 440-yard dashes and in the 
low hurdles, and is one of the most valu
able members of the relay team. He is 
naturally a leader, and should win the 
success that his many friends wish for him.
Another member of the senior class was 
chosen as the leader of the base-ball team 
for next year. This is John R. Gearhart, 
more commonly known by various nick
names, chief among which is Geary. 
The little shortstop has played on the 
Varsity during the three years of his 
course, and is probably better known than 
any other member of the team. A sen
sational fielder, he has been a favorite 
with the fans, while his natural ability 
and speed give him a place of value with 
his team-mates and the coaches. He has 
repeatedly demonstrated his ability to 
start something, and should make a 
successful leader of a successful team.
GEO. L. KOPP & CO.
Drawing Instruments and Material ARTISTS MATERIALS Blue Print Papers and Blue Printing.We repair Drawing InstrumentsHYDROMETERS THERMOMETERS ANEROID BAROMETERS 
704 Smithfield Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company Roman H. Heyn, President
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef.of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge of our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. y1aOL ,Pk so1LOtLS
Why School Teachers Age RapidlyShe Was Engaged for the Moment.A Large Contract.
Many people wonder why school-teach
ers age so early and rapidly. The follow
ing are some excerpts from the harvest one 
pegagogue reaped from her sowing, and 
which will, in a measure, explain her de
spair :
Lowell was born in Cambridge at his 
old home Elmwood.
Whenever a knight started out on an 
errant, he was called a knight errant. 
Geology treats of the interior of the 
earth and the exterior of the earth and 
the historical events of its future.
The divisions of geology are structural, 
dramatisal, and hysterical.'
Oliver Wendell Holmes was a man of 
good ideas, a few of which are exposed in 
his works.January Womans Home 
Companion.
A little girl in Cambridge was very 
naughty one day. She was so bad 
that, other corrections failing, her 
mother took her to her room to whip 
her.
During this proceeding the little 
girls brother opened the door and was 
about to enter. But in her prone po
sition across her mothers knee the 
little girl twisted her head and said se
verely:
Eddie, go out! Cant you see were
busy?
Do You Need Bread?
A Thrilling Fact
Suppose, said the wise oratorthough 
it is a thought stupendous
Suppose a baby one year old, with arms 
of the tremendous
Length of ninety-three odd million miles, 
Should in a freak of fun,
Reach up and touch the sun!
That child would be 
Two hundred and fifty-three 
Years old,
Im told
Before it learned
Its hand was burned!Jane Ellis Joy 
in St. Nicholas.
It is funny how some people are 
caught making mistakes in spelling, 
said a young man to his friend.
You cant catch me, replied the 
other.
Well, how would you spell the sim
ple word meaning to knead bread?
Why, k-n-e-a-d/ of course; thats 
easy.
But that is not how it is spelled.
What?
You do not k-n-e-a-d bread; you 
n-e-e-d bread, but you k-n-e-a-d 
dough.
Orville Wright said the other day in 
Dayton:
Our aim is to make flying safe. The 
important thing is not now to produce 
aeroplanes that will go one hundred 
and fifty miles an hour, but to produce 
aeroplanes that wont fall down.
Mr. Wright smiled.
Im reminded of a flying story, he 
went on; a story about a man who 
called at a biplane selling agency and 
said:
 My older brother bought a biplane 
here last month. You told him if any
thing broke youd supply the missing 
parts.
 Yes, Well? said the manager.
Well, said the caller, my brother 
wants you to supply him right away 
with six new ribs, a left leg, half a 
dozen assorted fingers, and a mediumsbed Roman nose.New York Tri
bune.
To Be Exact.
The Principal Implements.
A Mystery of Nature
Following the last meet of what was 
probably the most successful track season 
in our short history the team unanimously 
elected Charles M. Crawford, 1913, their 
captain for the season of 191213. Craw
ford has finished his third year as a Var
sity athlete, and has proved the most 
valuable point-winner that ever competed 
for Carnegie Tech. There is apparently 
no limit to his ability, as he has competed 
in all of the dashes, the hurdles, and the 
middle distances runs, and has even taken 
pact in the jumps with considerable sucSo theres another rupture of Mount 
Vociferous, said Mrs. Partington, as she 
put on her specs vThe paper tells us 
about the burning lather running down the 
mountain, but it didnt tell how it got 
afire. T id-Bits.
Economy is Wealth.
Mrs. OHaraIts the iligant job 
me man has now, Mrs. McClune. Tis 
night watchman he is.
An why do you like that better 
tl.an the other, Mrs. OHara?
Why, sure, he sleeps all day, and 
that saves his board; and he works all 
night, and that saves his lodging.
1 presume, my good fellow, that 
youre a laborer, said a lawyer to a 
plainly dressed witness. You are 
right; I am a workman, sir, replied 
the witness, who was a civil engineer. 
Familiar with the use of the pick, 
shovel, and spade, I presume? To 
some extent. Those are not the prin
cipal implements of our trade, though. 
Perhaps you will condescend to en
lighten me as to your principal imple
ments. It is hardly worth whils. 
You dont understand their nature < - 
use. Probably not, loftily, but I 
insist on knowing what they are. 
Brains, sir.
After a teacher had recited The 
Landing of the Pilgrims, she request
ed each pupil to try to draw from his 
or her imagination a picture of Ply
mouth Rock.
Most of them went to work at on^e, 
but one little fellow hesitated, and at 
length raised his hand.
Well, Willie, what is it? asked the 
teacher.
Please, maam, do you want us to 
draw a hen or a rooster?
The Sincerest Flattery.
Are You One?
Say, pop, whats a pessimist?
A pessimist, my son, is one who, of 
two evils, chooses them both.Ev
erybodys.
Everything about Aunt Dorothy 
seemed lovely and wholly desirable to 
Bobby. Even an accident that broke 
a piece from one of her front teeth 
produced at last what seemed to her 
small admirer an attractive result.
On his first visit to the dentist, Bob
by bore with more or less patience the 
work which had to be done, and then 
made a request.
Right in the middle, in front, he 
said, I should like a copper-toed tooth 
like Aunt Dorothys.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
BUREAU OF STUDENT AID
The report of the Bureau of Student 
Aid shows the following figures for the 
year ending April 1st, 1912:
Applications received........................... 616
Students engaged............................................ 622
Divided as follows:
Day Students............................................... 387
Night Students............................................ 139
Graduates..................................................... 33
Summer employment................................ 63
Wages received:
Day Students...........................$24,466.50
Night Students...........................96,704.00
Graduates.....................................29,975.00
Summer employment..................9,849.25
$160,994.75
The work of the bureau divides itself 
into two distinct lines of effortthe se
curing of temporary work during vaca
tions and on Saturdays during the school 
year, for the students in the day schools; 
and the placing of night students and 
graduates in positions requiring their full 
tme during the day.
 The statement that fully 60% of the 
men students in the day schools are prac
ticing some measure of self-support has 
been borne out by the experience of the 
bureau during the year just past. Work
ing as part-time draftsmen, machine shop 
helpers, electric wiremen, clerks and steno
graphers, tutors, night attendants, clerks 
in department stores, groceries and in any 
other capacity in which their services can 
be made use of, a very large number of the 
day students have supported themselves 
wholly or in part during the past year. 
Very few day students, however, are able 
to earn their total expenses while in school; 
their time is greatly limited, and the rigor
ous courses of study make a demand upon 
the energies of the average man too great 
to admit of his accomplishing such a task. 
The average student possessing no special 
training and with only his Saturdays and 
an occasional evening available for em
ployment, cannot expect to earn more 
than Y alf of his expenses in the course of a 
school year. There are, of course, occa
sional exceptions which serve to prove 
this ru!e. One student last year supported 
himself entirely by stenographic services; 
another worked as night chemist for a steel 
concern in this city, earning more than 
enough for all his expenses; others re
ceived their board and lodging free in 
return for services at hospitals, clubs and 
hotels.
The work of the bureau in behalf of the 
graduates is becoming more and more 
important. Accurate records are main
tained of the professional career of each 
graduate and the possession of this in
formation often makes it possible for the 
Institution to place members of the Alum
ni body in positions of varying responsi
bility in manufacturing concerns through
out the country.
Among the night students practically 
every postion secured has been directly 
in line with the course the applicant is 
taking in school. This is in accordance 
with one of the settled policies of the 
bureauthat as early as possible in his 
course the night student ought to be as
sisted in finding employment in his chosen 
field.
In addition to the aid in finding employ
ment for men out of work, the bureau has 
in many cases been instrumental in secur
ing promotion and increase in salary for 
night students already employed. When 
a man is employed in a line of work, the 
theory of which he is studying in the night 
classes, it is obvious that his chances of 
obtaining promotion will be strengthened 
if his employers interest in him is enlisted 
through reports of his creditable progress 
in his studies here. In the interest of 
many such students the bureau has been 
at pains to make careful reports to em
ployers regarding their records here, and 
it is believed that through letters and 
personal calls on foremen, superintendents, 
managers, etc., the Institution has been 
the means of assisting numbers of worthy 
students to positions of greater responsi
bility at increased wages.
Among the students of the Margaret 
Morrison School a much smaller propor
tion are engaged in working their way 
through. Many, however, have done 
volunteer work in the various settlement 
houses of the city.
A Considerate Son.
A certain father, whose son is an 
undergraduate at one of the larger col
leges, has frequent occasion, according 
to Christian Work, to remonstrate witu 
the boy on his extravagance.
In a recent letter he sent a check for 
fifty dollars, but accompanied it with 
admonitions to lead a more econom
ical life.
My son, he wrote, your studies 
are costing me a good deal.
To which his son replied cheerfully: 
I know it, father, and I dont study 
very hard, either.
He Heard It.
Upon a witness in one of the Cincin
nati courts refusing to testify in a case 
before his witness fee was forthcom
ing, the questioning attorney reached 
in his pocket produced the dollar, then 
proceeded: You were present during 
the conversation? I was, respondfhe witness. You heard what was 
said? I did, was the reply. Tell 
u^ what was said, demanded the law
yer. The witness shook his head. I 
cant, he replied. They talked in 
German, and I dont understand that 
language.
Whats In a Name?
Doctor, whats the matter with me? 
How do you feel?
Awfully sick at my stomach.
It is probably a disturbance confined 
to the interior of the principal enlargement 
or dilation of your alimentary canal, sup
erinduced by the introduction of some 
uncongenial substance or by the undue 
distention of its tissues in consquence 
of a superfluous agglomeration of other
wise innocuous material, and necessitating 
as a remedial measure merely, abstention 
from the deglution and absorption of nutriont articles until amelioration superve.ics.
Gracious sakes! Is there any cure for
that?
O, yes; just go without eating until 
you feel better.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Mens Boots. This is strictly a young 
mans boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
ifBuilt for us by a famous Brockton Man
ufacturer.
Step in Our Mens Department
Mark Twains Estimate of Some Books
AIco Hall
A man who made his money in New 
England selling liquor built an imposing 
house out of the profits.
He wanted a name for the house. So 
he went to a friend skilled in sueh things 
and told him of his need. I want a fan
cy name, he saidsome hall or other, 
you know.
Sure, said the friend. Call it Al
cohol.
When Delay Was Dangerous.
Mark Twain spent one summer, the 
story goes, as told in an exchange, at 
Riverside, N. Y. A suburban fish-pedler, with a raucous voice and a tin 
horn, passed the house frequently. Fi
nally, one Sunday morning, Mark said: 
That fellow has been here twice 
every day this week. Such persistency 
in crime ought to be rewarded. Im 
going to buy a fish of him, which he 
accordingly did. Prepared for lunch
eon, the fish was found to be highly 
unsatisfactory, and, when the pedler 
appeared in the afternoon, he humor
ist went out and hailed him.
See here! said Mark with some 
warmth, that fish wasnt eatable. It 
was too old.
'Well, it wasnt my fault, boss, re
plied the man indignantly. I give you 
two* chances every day this week to 
buy that fish, and if you was foolish 
enough to wait till it was spiled you 
cant blame me.
A Good Combination.
The Stranger in TownDo you 
have many trolley-car accidents here? 
The Resident"We have none that 
is fatal; the president of the trolley 
road is also head of a life insurance 
company.Chicago News.
The Forgetful Minister
A young girl once asked Mark Twain if 
he liked books for Christmas gifts. Well, 
that depends, drawled the great humorist. 
If a book has a leather cover, it is really 
very valuable as a razor strop; if it is a 
brief, concise work, such as the French 
write, it is useful to put under the leg of 
a wobbly table; an old-fashioned book with 
a clasp can be used as a missile to hurl at 
a dog, and a large book, like a geography, 
is as good as a piece of tin to nail over a 
broken pane of glass.
A minister once approached a circle of 
boys, in whose center a dog was sitting, 
and asked what they were playing. They 
replied:
Were each trying to see who can tell 
the biggest lie, and the one who succeeds is to have the dog.
The minister said: *  Little boys shouldnt 
play such games. I never told a lie when 
I was a little boy.
The smallest of the circle cried out: 
Give the minister the dog!
Found Her Sphere
Doctor, said a young lady, I want 
you to suggest a course in life for me. I 
have thought of journalism
What are your natural inclinations? 
Oh, my soul yearns and throbs and pul
sates with an ambition to give the world 
a life-work that shall be marvelous in its 
scope and weirdly entrancing in the vast
ness of structural beauty.
My dear madam, you were born to be 
a milliner.
A Foolish Question
Artist: This is my painting Youth in
the Melon Patch. 
Critic: But where are the melons?
Artist: What a foolish question!To
ledo Blade.
Whats the matter, Pat?
Sure an Im a-lookin fer me well, to 
get a pail o wather out! was OBriens 
reply.
Madam, can I sell you a vacuum clean
er?
No, sir; we havent got any vacuums 
in this house that need cleaning.
Is the pie compulsory? mildly inquired 
the newly-arrived Englishman of the New 
England waitress, who kept pressing the 
homely dessert upon him.
No, she answered, its mince.
I want a pair of button shoes for my 
wife.
This way, sir. What kind do you wish 
sir?
Doesnt matterjust so they dont but
ton in the back.
The way to ,ct cheerful is" to smile when you feel tad, to think atout somebody elses headache when yer own is most bustin, to keep on 1 elievin the sun is a-shinin when the coulds is thick enouch to cut. Alice Hegan Rice.
