The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 9 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1944
4th CIT Sorority 
Has Gone National: 
ATS Joins Tri Delts
Alpha Theta Sigma, a Margaret 
Morrison sorority, was entertained 
at pledging ceremonies by the Pitt 
Chapter of Delta Delta Delta on 
Sunday, March 5, in preparation for 
becoming the eighty-eighth chapter 
of the sorority. The Alphas are the 
fourth sorority to go national this 
year at Carnegie Tech.
Mrs. Carl T. Mailer, Jr. was in 
charge of the pledging and Miss Ma
rian Hildebrand was chaplain. Fol
lowing the ceremony the Pitt Chap
ter, Alpha Theta, held a tea for the 
new chapter and the alumni of both 
groups.
Alpha Theta Sigma was first rec
ognized as a local sorority on the 
Tech campus in 1935. The present 
officers are: Helen McKeart, presi
dent; Eileen Hilf, vice president; 
Alberta Rosendahl, secretary; Pau
line Lamp, treasurer; and Doris 
Strandberg, historian.
Assisting the girls in the organi
zation of the new chapter are: Mrs. 
Harold L. Lang, faculty sponsor; 
Mrs. Carl T. Haller, Jr., their new 
sponsor; and a board of advisors con
sisting of Miss Elizabeth Miller, 
pledge advisor; Mrs. Walter Blenko, 
social advisor; and Miss Ruth Hogg, 
financial advisor.
Music Dept. Welcomes 
The Artur Schnabel
The strains of a lilting Brahms 
waltz greeted the renowned pianist, 
Artur Schnabel, as he entered a re
hearsal of the Music Departments 
chorus last Thursday morning.
' Mr. Schnabels entrance immedi
ately electrified the throng assem
bled in the Exhibition Room of the 
Arts School, and the waltz was tem
porarily forgotten. The artist, who 
is perhaps the most famous living 
interpreter of Beethoven, had ex
pressed a desire to hear the Car
negie Tech chorus perform, under 
the leadership of Dr. Dorian. The 
chorus, in answer to the pianists 
special request, sang Mozarts Ave 
Maria and Verdis Hymn to the 
Virgin. Proceeding with their pro
gram, they next presented several 
of Brahms waltzes, which, in turn, 
were followed by some contempor
ary music.
Then, taking advantage of the un
usual occasion, the students turned 
the tables and asked Mr. Schnabel 
to perform for them. He graciously 
consented by playing Mozarts beau
tiful Rondo in A Minor.
The whole affair finally developed 
into an informal chat in which Mr. 
Schnabel made a plea for sympa
thetic listening to new contempor
ary music. He emphasized that the 
only approach to the new is in re
membering that the old, too, was 
once new. Hence, modern music 
cannot be expected to sound like the 
What is good alone will sur<uid time alone will determine 
s good.
IF, IS Councils Plan 
Sing & Swing April 1
This years edition of the Greek 
Sing and Swing will take place on 
April 1, in the Urban room of the 
Hotel William Penn. The dance will 
begin at 7:00 P. M. and extend 
through to 1:00 A. M., during 
which time the singing competition 
will be held. Each organization will 
be allowed one team, probably con
sisting of from six to twelve mem
bers. There will be two prizes given 
for the best singing, one for the men 
and one for the women. Even though 
the dance has been restricted to 
members of mens and womens fra
ternities, it will have a large attend
ance since practically every frater
nity will be represented.
Assembly Will Show 
Blood Plasma Work
On Tuesday, March 14, at the as
sembly in Fine Arts building, a 
movie entitled Life Flying will be 
shown. This movie carries a real 
punch to it, since it shows exactly 
how your blood is used to help 
save the life of the American fight
ing man.
There is no need to prove the need 
for blood plasma. The fact is that 
97% of men who have suffered from 
shock in battles owe their lives to 
blood plasma. Then there is the 
story of the American soldier who 
required 34 blood transfusions to 
save his life. Today that same sol
dier is eternally grateful to every 
one of the thirty-four blood donors 
who helped to save his life.
Tech students, this is a chance to 
do your part without carrying a 
gun. Lets not fall down, but in
stead go over the goal which has 
been set at 250 donors.
Geisler, Barrett, Mehl 
Receive Metals Award
At the annual dinner of the Insti
tute of Metals Division of the Am
erican Institute of Metallurgical En
gineers in New York on February
22, an award was presented to Al
fred H. Geisler, Charles S. Barrett, 
and Robert F. Mehl, in recognition 
of an article Aging in the Solid 
Solution of Silver in Aluminum, on* 
which they collaborated. The 
award is made annually for the best 
paper in the science of metallurgy.
Dr. Alfred H. Geisler, who was the 
senior author of the article, sub
mitted his work as part of the re
quirements for the Doctor of Sci
ence degree which he received from 
Carnegie Tech in 1941. He is now 
research metallurgist at the Alumi
num Research Leboratories, New 
Kensington, Pa. Dr. Robert F. Mehl 
is director of Metals Research Lab
oratory and Head of the Depart
ment of Metallurgy at Tech, and Dr. 
Charles S. Barrett is the Associate 
Professor of Metallurgy.
Beetles In Canteen 
Not As In The Grill
We take care of everything, 
might well be the motto of Techs 
canteen. From alleviating your 
thirst and relieving those 3:00 hun
ger pangs to providing polish for GI 
boots, this popular campus hang
out meets the needs of Carnegie 
students. Yet this is only the begin
ning. In order to assure every com
fort to its patrons the Canteen now 
takes care of your extra pennies and 
dimes.
This latest service takes the form 
of a miniature table and chair he
roically titled War Stamps Booth. 
Run by the Beta Tau Lambda so
rority, otherwise known as 
Beetles, the booth is designed to 
encourage students and ASTs to in
vest their change in ten and twentyfive cent stamps. As soon as a pur
chaser wants one, the girls also issue 
stamp books.
As one of the sorority aptly ex
plained it, A war stamp is always 
a good investment, and anyway it is 
better than having a lot of chicken 
feed lying in your pocket.
All term 2 and some term 3 ASTs 
will be given an opportunity to take 
the Army pre-medical aptitude 
test tomorrow morning at 9:00 A. 
M. The War department is giving 
similar exams to basic ASTP stu
dents throughout the country to se
lect medical, dental, and veterinary 
students for pre-graduate work.
Those third term students who 
passed the test last semester may 
get another interview this time 
without taking it again. Anyone in 
term 3 who desires may take the 
exam, while all basic 2s are requir
ed to do so. Pre-professional stu
dents will be selected from this unit 
on the basis of the exam and an in
terview.
Last term 18 men from this unit 
qualified; they are now beginning 
pre-med courses at Syracuse Uni
versity. The present exam is sim
ilar to the regular American Medi
cal Association medical aptitude 
test, which all students must take.
Those who qualify on the test will 
transfer to medical schols according 
to a set quota.
Mystery Comes to CIT 
With Ladies In Waiting
A weird mystery-melodrama will 
be the next show to open in the Lit
tle Theatre. Mr. Kai Heiberg-Jurgensen is presenting Ladies in 
Waiting, a tale of hate and jealousy 
on the lonely, desolate moors of 
Yorkshire. A young girl about to 
be married finds herself on the dark, 
stormy night before her wed
ding in a house with several jealous 
women. One of them is determined 
to get rid of her so that she may 
have the man in the picture. The 
Drama Department has outdone it
self in providing in Ladies in WaitContinued on page 3
Carnival Brings 
Monarchy to CIT
As every good Tech stude knows 
by now, Spring Carnival is on its 
merry way to the hearts and minds 
of all Carnegie. Along with this ex
citing event, a Campus Queen must 
be chosen. All Sophomore, Junior, 
and Senior women who submit a pe
tition with twenty-five civilian sig
natures are eligible. Each voter 
may sign only one petition.
The petitions are due in Mr. Mur
phys office by 5:00, Thursday, 
March 9. The election will be held 
Tuesday, March 11, from 11:00 to 
2:00 in Maggie Murph, Fine Arts, 
and Industries. One queen and four 
courtiers will be chosen, to be in
stated Saturday night The coro
nation will be strictly a la mode, 
with regal rythms by Jan Savitt. A 
Call Day ceremony will be available 
for any organization which wishes 
to tap members.
Friday night the Army band will 
provide jump-cadence for the Mili
tary Ball. Ask any MMCC gal about 
the pseudo-syncopation drifting 
from the Rec. Hall Friday nights foi 
further information.
The AST queen, who will be se 
lected from the photographs submit 
ted by the Army, will be crowned 
Friday. These photos must be in 
Mr. Murphys office or turned in to 
the company representative by 5:00 
on Tuesday, March 14.
Tickets will be on sale Monday, 
March 13. The price is $5 for Friday 
and Saturday.
President Doherty Talks 
At Pittsburgh Art Forum
President Robert E. Doherty will 
be one of the speakers at the art 
forum. This is the fourth and final 
Monday night discussion being held 
in connection with the 34th Annual 
Exhibition of the Associated Artists 
of Pittsburgh. The last of this series 
will be held on March 13 at 8:30 in 
the galaries of the Fine Art Build
ing. Eminent Pittsburghers will 
speak on the subject People Need 
Art. The speakers will include 
Chancellor Bowman of University 
of Pittsburgh, Pres. Herbert Spen
ser of Pennsylvania College for 
Women, Pres, and Rev. Raymond 
Kirk of Duquesne University, and 
Supt. Henry Hill of the Board of Ed
ucation. President Doherty will 
have excellent ideas for the dis
cussion since art is among his many 
talents. This forum is open to the 
public and should be of great inter
est to all art lovers.
Technical Meeting
There will be a staff meeting of 
the Technical, 11:00 A. M., Satur
day, March 11 in 232 I. H. Mem
bers of the staff and anyone wish
ing to join the staff, please note.
Term 2 and 3 AST
The movie opens the, final blood Take Pre-Med Test 
donor drive of the semester with a 
grand total of 250 volunteers being 
needed to complete the quota.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1944
CdUtoA. AnsHcitcUsiThe Outlook . . .
With Regrets To Some
The following is directed toward a certain group, which shall be 
recognized by definition.
From the latest reports, both official and unofficial, the status of the 
ASTP at Carnegie Tech is almost completely defined. The probability is 
highest that there will be no soldiery on the campus after M-Daythe first 
of April.
This fact, in conjunction with some of lesser value, has been respon
sible for one of the most complete metamorphoses ever seen on Gods good 
earth. The student body, which heretofore had been too, too, blase in its 
attitude toward the Army, has effected an about-face which astonishes one 
and all. It has become almost human.
The reasons for this change are difficult to analyze. Concomitant 
with the realization that the Army is slated to go has been the natural 
reaction: an understanding of just what the Army is, and just why the 
Army is. This comprehension has taken quite a few months to materialize, 
but it has arrived. The student body, it seemed to the Army, almost refused 
to believe there was a war going on. It went blithely about its daily tasks 
with no fear or trepidation as to the possible future course of events. The 
Army, to them was typified by the ASTP: American Theatre of Opera
tions; drill once or twice a week; marching to classes at relaxed attention; 
an hour restriction or so for flagrant violations of rules. That was their war.
But that has changed. Perhaps the democratizing effect of the Army as 
such has caused the altering of psychology; perhaps the realization that 
these thousand or so GIs might soon be charging up the beaches at Calais, 
or Dunquerque, or Dieppe, or Abbeville, was responsible. Perhaps, also, 
the change was due to the increased restriction on the amount of butter 
to be used at one meal; perhaps it was due to the taking away of a C card 
in favor of an A; perhaps it was due to the appreciation of the fact that 
dates will not be as plentiful as before. But whatever the reasons, the 
civilian mentality is different.
The Army, unbelievable as it may sound, is capable of a good deal of 
understanding. Living intimately with dozens of others increases a per
sons capacity to make allowances for the failings of his friends. Tolerance 
and comradeship are his greatest assets. This, then, is the reason that the 
ASTP is appreciative of the civilian turn-about. Though very little time 
remains to make anything of itnaturallythe soldiers at Tech are grate
ful.
The student body has almost entirely redeemed itself. J. V.
Yours Is The Fight
Yesterday, a youth walked leisurely across campus. Yesterday, he 
played bridge in the canteen and danced in a dimly lighted Thistle Hall. 
Yesterday he was your fraternity brother or your sweetheart. Today, a 
man lies writhing on the sands of the Anzio Beachhead. Tomorrow, he 
may return to society maimed and beaten. Tomorrow, he may die.
Ours alone is the power to reclaim him from a premature death or a 
living hell. To us, who sit smugly in the sanctity of our classrooms and 
shed a tear of pity for the forgotten man, comes an urgent plea from the 
one medium which can actually help, the American Red Cross. Because 
of that organization, at this very moment, the blood you gave is giving 
some fallen hero a fighting chance. Because of the Red Cross, your brother, 
whose jaw was shot off at Tarawa, can face the life they gave him, unafraid. 
Because of the Red Cross, we can sink back into our luxury, confident that 
everything within the power of man and science is being utilized to restore 
life and spirit to our armies.
And for the most part, that is just the attitude we take. Hes well 
cared for, we say, what more can we do? True we cant be at the front 
lines to hold his hand and wipe the sweat from a malaria ridden body. But 
we can actively support the Red Cross, for it is only through that support 
that it can carry on its vital task on all fronts, at home and abroad.
Our donations, alone, are what makes it possible for the prisoners of 
war in Japan to receive word from home. The hundreds of overseas clubs, 
where the homesick soldier can drown his sorrows in a good cup of Ameri
can coffee and find solace in a hometown newspaper, take money and that 
money must come from you. Provision for families whose fathers were 
killed at Bataan takes money, and that money, too, must come from you. 
The bombed-out civilians of Europe are your responsibility.
This year, the national goal of the Red Cross is 200 million dollars, 55% 
greater than last year. But remember, the war of 44 is 55% more horrible 
than that of 43. The actual average cost per man of keeping the Red Cross 
at the side of your soldiers each year is 18 dollars, This is your duty. To 
fail in it is to break faith with those you love. L. S.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not *o be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHEN'LEY 4557
Wi>MUNTCD PON NATIONAL ADVERTISING Y . ,, _  _ ,,
National Advertising Service, Inc. . Aiter. fflce Hours Cal1
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-Chief .............................SC. 6888
420 AlphaTe lthS eig mT,M eS y. Business Manager........................SC. 8951
CatCAo  Boar on  Loa rMhrh o sla nhl,yhhyT
Entered a* ietanl*elaaa matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March S, 1(71.Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor....................................................................................................................... Louisa Saul
Military Editor ............................................................................ Pfc. James W. Vauahan
Busxvjess Manager.................................................................................................... Nick Reed
The National Opinion Research 
Center at the University of Denver 
conducted a series of polls during 
the last two weeks to determine the 
general opinion on the advisability 
of the freedom of speech and press. 
The results were as frightening as 
they were interesting.
To the question Would you per
mit newspapers to criticize the gov
ernment in peace time? 30% of 
the people interviewed answered 
No. In answer to a similar question, 
34% of the subjects stated that they 
were opposed to the right of crit
icism of the government by speech. 
In other words, in this country, 
where we pride ourselves on our 
democratic principles, one third of 
what we may assume to be a fair 
cross section of the American people 
is against the most fundamental of 
these principles, the freedom to say 
and print what you like.
It is interesting to note that of 
the 30% voting against freedom of 
press, only 12% were college gradu
ates, 28% high school graduates, and 
60 % persons who did not even finish 
high school. The non-believers in 
fredom of speech were divided sim
ilarly. This shows but too clearly 
that the many present day denials of 
the freedoms of press and speech 
are not caused by the intelli
gent, almost philosophical, problem 
whether or not we should grant free 
expression to persons advocating its 
restriction, but simply by ignorant 
misunderstanding of the basic con
ception of these freedoms. A great 
part of the American people is just 
not educated enough to grasp the 
real scope of freedom of expression, 
and that is why the results of the 
polls are so threatening.
It sounds wonderful to say that 
after this war the United Nations, 
led by America, will establish uni
versally the four freedoms set forth 
in the Atlantic Charter. But how 
can we go about it if many of us 
do not even know the meaning of 
these freedoms? Before attempting 
to inject democracy into other 
countries, we must ourselves have a 
clear understanding of its princi
ples.
Let us concentrate today on the 
meaning of Freedom of Speech. 30% 
of a representative group answered 
No to the question, whether per
sons should be allowed to criticize
Student Employment
Off Campus
Boys
Driving delivery truck for grocer. Mur
ray Avenue. 65-70c per hour. Any free 
hours, know Squirrel Hill district.
Running lathe for company downtown. 
Mechanical or Electrical Engineer. 65c 
per hour.
HandymanSaturday; home of faculty 
member; 50c per hour.
Houseman at local bowling alleys. 6:00- 
12:00 three nights a week. $10.00.
Driving car for elderly lady. Any free 
hours, day or early evening. 50c per 
hour.
Boy to clean wall paper; private home.
Mechanical drawing tracers for en
gineer downtown. Good rates.
Boys and Girls
Counselors for Brashear Association 
Settlement, 3:30-5:30 or 7:30-9:30. 65c
per hour.
Camp counselors for summer work. 
Girls
Care of children, regularly or occa
sionally.
Typing and helping with registration at 
dramatic school. $25.00 for one month,
12 hours a week.
the government; yet we can safely 
bet that not one of the group would 
have answered No to the question 
Are you in favor of freedom of 
speech? In other words, many peo
ple believe that we should restrict 
freedom of speech to the right of 
agreeing with the government. Ob
viously this is absurd. To believe in 
this is to say that Hitler Germany 
grants its citizens the freedom of 
speech. We must understand that 
freedom of expression is freedom 
to disagree, and also that it is not 
a privilege granted by a superior, 
but a right inate to every individ
ual.
In theory this would be enough 
to clear the misunderstandings 
about the freedoms of speech and 
press. But the set-up of the* Ameri
can press today adds another con
fusing aspect to the situation. The 
control of big newspapers is virtual
ly centralized in a few chains  
Hearst, Scripps-Howard, and some 
others. By their size these syndi
cates have become unconcerned 
with the opinions and political 
trends of the general public, and 
are solely dependent upon the will 
of their source of incomeadver
tisements from big business. Wheth
er or not the opinions expressed in 
these papers are originally their 
own, and just happen to coincide 
with the beliefs of business is of no 
direct concern to the people; the 
fact remains that the press presents 
a purely one-sided view of the po
litical scene. And to say that any
one has the right to start an inde
pendent paper extolling the oppo
site opinions is as idealitsic as be
lieving that anyone can compete 
with U. S. Steel by opening an in
dependent steel mill. This situation 
has brought many intelligent and 
educated people to believe that it 
would be for the good of the coun
try if the government would force 
upon the newspapers the opinions 
of the majority which they continu
ously ignore. However, we cannot 
overemphasize that this measure 
would destroy its own purpose, for 
we cannot propagate freedom of 
speech or press by restricting it.
The results of the Denver poll 
should be a warning to us, for it 
shows how large a part of the Amer
ican people is sadly in need of bet
ter education. Most of the miscon
ceptions about the implications of 
democracy, most of the prejudice 
and hatred among groups and re
ligions are due to ignorance. De
mocracy is based on knowledge, and 
knowledge on education, and if the 
educators of America will not get on 
the ball our form of government 
will be a tragic failure. E. A. L.
.. ACAC Minutes..
Thirty-sixth Meeting
March 1, 1944.
The meeting was called to order at 
5:20 p. m.
Present: Messrs. Heinz, Marcus, Rob
bins, Vaughn, and Wolff; Misses Rial, 
Schadel, Skillington, and Bloom.
Social
Miss Rial gave a brief report on Carni
val plans and their progress. Tickets will 
be available to civilians next week.
It was decided that a letter should be 
written to Intersorority and Interfrater
nity Councils explaining A. C. A. C.s 
action of last week.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Sally Bloom 
Secrets

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
HOUSEHOLD GOODS 
FOR SALE
REASONABLE
Radio Set, Norge Refrigerator, 
Piano, Radio Clocks, Chaise 
Longue Bird Bath.
455 Duquesne Drive, off Bower 
Hill Road, Mt. Lebanon 
Fleldbrook 9969
APARTMENT 
FOR RENT
Will sublet 3 room furnished 
apartment to service mans 
wife and baby for one month 
from March 15 at thirty-five 
dollars.
Phone MO. 7004
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA'S MOST COM
PLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND 
POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MKMBKR FIDERAL DEPOSIT 
IN SU RANCI CORPORATION
This picture of Henry E. Sievers, 
Carnegie Tech Alumnus, was taken 
at Selman Field, Monroe, Louisiana.
Many such telephones handle several hundred 
calls every month. Its a way more persons can use 
the available facilities, limited now by wartime 
material shortages. . 4* 
ChoralImprovisation, Praise the Lord,
the Mighty King ...............Kark-Elert
Theodore W. Ripper
Prelude and Fugue in D minor........Bach
Rachel Comer
Caprice in B flat major...........Guilmant
Ruth Moore
Toccata and Fugue in D minor........Bach
Betty Barnhart 
Prelude from the First Symphony .Vierne 
Ivella Mary Kenny 
Toccata from the First Sonata... .Becker 
Robert B. Brown
On the Record
The program for the daily record 
recitals to be given in room 157, 
Fine Arts, between 12:00 and 1:00 
is as follows:
Tuesday, March 7
Symphony No. 1..................Sibelius
Wednesday, March 8; Thursday, 
March 9; Friday, March 10:
Request programs.
Wednesday, March 8 
Request Program
Thursday, March 9
Sonotas ............................. Bethoven
Friday, March 10 
Request Program_______________
The nation-wide resources of the Bell System 
are enlisted in maintaining dependable communi
cation servicesvital in war, essential in peace. m
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy ... That why your call may be delayed.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Ladies In Waiting . . .
Continued from page 1 
ing thrills and chills and all the 
other tingling sensations that go 
with a mystery play.
Sammy Hare designed the set for 
this Cyril Campion thriller, and 
Mary Margaret Jubic, a student in 
the Music Department, has compos
ed and will play the music for the 
show. Cyril Simon is the stage 
manager.
The show will open Thursday, 
March 9, and will play through Fri
day, March 17. No tickets are nec
essary for the student matinee on 
March 17 at 3:30. Tickets for the 
other performances are available in 
the Drama Department Office and 
the Registrars Office.
The cast is:
, f Jeanne Whitaker
Maude......................... Nancy Heoht
Mrs Dawson J Joan SedlarMrs. Dawson.............^ Ruth glohm
Janet | Rosanne Bearman
| Mary Abel 
tj $ Ruth Storm
...............................\ Phyllis Fineman
pat...............................j Peggy Glenn
\ Suzanne Maiman 
Phn i Lois Eicher
................................I Adele Lipkin
T , _ . (Patricia TurtonLady Spate.................} The0 Dunkelman
Pamela * Doris Fastamela...........................1 Adelyne Roth
Dora f Muriel Rosoff..............................| Jane Franklin
Dept, of Music Gives 
Sunday Evening Recital
On Sunctay, Maj-cn 12, 1944, at 8:15 P. 
M., the organ students of the department 
of music will present a recital in the Lit
tle Theater, College of Fine Arts.
The program is as follows:
Concert Variations..........................Bonnet
ChoralPrelude, I Call to Thee Lord
Jesus Christ .................................Bach
Janet Wilks Stang 
Scherzo from the Fourth Symphony..
......................................................... Widor
Ondeine Rau
Gothic Suite ............................ Boellmann
IntroductionChoral 
Gothic Minuet 
Prayer to Our Lady 
Toccata
Herman Knell
Prelude and Fugue in F major........Bach
Violet Katherine Wilson
aunts, and cousins are still virtual 
prisoners of Germany and to help 
free them and their Polish brothers, 
Korpanty hopes for assignment to 
the European theatre of war. He 
hopes to return to the Poland he 
grew to love during a visit there in 
1933, only this time via a P-38, its 
guns blazing destruction to the 
forces that enslave his kinsmen.
Leo S. Karpanty, who recently 
graduated from navigation school 
at Strother Field, Kansas.
Aside from the genuine satisfac
tion young fliers feels in being able 
to pilot military aircraft, Aviation 
Cadet Leo S. Korpanty of Strother 
Field, Kansas, has another reason 
for rejoicing that the weeks and 
months of his training as a pilot are 
rapidly slipping away. Korpanty is 
anxious to be in on the kill in 
Europe, when his Polish relatives 
are liberated from the crushing op
pression of the Nazis. Since Ger
many marched on Poland on Sep
tember 1, 1939, Korpantys relatives 
have been feeling the blows of the 
enemy. Worn by the burdens and 
anxieties depleted by the wars pri
vations, Korpantys grandmother 
died a few months ago, according to 
latest word received. But his uncles,
"Community public telephonessome even in 
outside booth locationsare serving residents in 
war-born neighborhoods.
in Khaki . . i
By Jerry Brickman
dashed up three nights of stairs and 
finally stopped at the entrance of 
a third floor room. After looking 
about for a few moments, the sailor 
turned sharply around and left the 
building . . . the sailor was A/S 
A1 Schneider, V-12, stationed at 
present at Villa Nova College. A1 
had a five hour stop-over on his way 
home to Milwaukee and Tech was 
the first stop on his list.
On a very dark night two Saturago, the peace of Scobell Hall 
very rudely broken when a 
of the United States 
broke into the building and

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1944
SPORTS
Sportlight
By R. J. Hopkins
Basketball: What Leo Lippy Durocher is to baseball, Coach Max
Haxmum is to basketball in these parts. In other words, Coach Hannum believes 
in expressing his opinionsbut volubly. Mr. Ilannum has various degrees of 
referee anger. When only mildly soured on a refs handling of a game, he 
merely shuffles his feet and casts questioning glances at the ceiling. The next 
stage is the throwing-of-sweatshirts-toward-the-ceiling stage. This indi
cates that he is a bit peeved, however, he is very sympathetic with the ref for 
not knowing what the hell the games all about. When he jumps to his feet 
and starts off on a long string of invectiveshes very mad. If youve ever 
been within a mile of the gym when this has happened, youll know just how 
clearly he tells the ref whats wrong. Mr. Hannum adds the color which is so 
sorely lacking at Tech today. ..In passing, he is just as quiet and generous in 
his actions away from the heat of a game as he is vigorous right in the middle 
of a gijme. Win, lose, or draw, Max is always in there pitch in;.*****
Basketball: The Tech ASTers closed their first and last campaign with 
a record of thirteen wins in fifteen games. Their most sparkling triumph was 
their win over Westminster AST by a score of 92-62; the game in which Mr. 
Gaza collected 37 pointsfor the second time. Their most ignominious defeat 
was at the hands of two men on the Mellon Institute aggregation.
The Tech Varsity also finished up their season, but not so fortunately. 
They only garnered one win in fourteen contests. This, however, is not a true 
indication of the teams worth. Take, for example, the first Penn State game 
which they lost in the last twenty seconds.
This game was lost only because the fellows let down in the last few sec
ondsthe game seemed to be in the bag. Carnegie completed its season against 
WTest Virginia to whom they lost by a score of 67-25. A few days before, they 
dropped their second game against Penn State, 16-33. Johnny Shott was Car
negies offensive man in both contests totalling 24 pointssixteen of them on 
the Penn State court.*****
Range: To date the rifle team has scored 2 victories as against 5 defeats. 
They have beaten Georgia and Lafayette and lost to Brooklyn Poly, Wash
ington State, Virginia Poly, L.S.U., Maryland and, in their only shoulder to 
shoulder match, (the others having been postal matches) the U. S. Naval 
Academy.
Coach Sommers has been plagued by a continual changing of person
nel. He started the season with a host of forty men and now has about 
twelve left. To make matters worse, by even the end of the week he will have 
lost Rice, Croop and Dickson. This leaves Morrison, Cohen, Jordan, Pollock, 
Connolly, Zanger, Gottesman, Perloff, and Carlson.
The first Girls Rifle team since 1940 has been established with much ap
parent enthusiasm. Approximately eighty girls signed up and half that num
ber at least, were at the first practice session.
Plans have been made to compete against other colleges still maintain
ing girls rifle teams. The team is coached by Sgt. Sommers and managed by 
Frances Quill and Jane Grim.
Composite Box Score*Tech Unit Team,1943-1944
Name of PlayerGamesField GoalsFoulsTot. PtsAve.
Gaza ...............................151695138925.9
Chapman ........................1454311399.9
Cramner..........................1549141127.4
Brown, Jim ...................112517676.1
DeBortoli........................151515453.0
O Brien .......................... 6174386.3
Brown, R. Lee............... 997252.8
Bowie ............................. 653132.1
Downing .......................961131.4
Hopkins .......................... 243115.5
Monroe ............................11339.8
Bianchetta .....................33172.3
Elting....................... 53171.4
Baillie .......................... 51461.2
Moynahan ...................... 32151.7
Fidler ..........................31131.0
*To and including West. A.S.T.U. Game. (Last scheduled game).
Dance 
Where Its Young and Gay 
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL 
TERRACE
85 cents per person 
Flap Tax <
GET HEPPED 
ON YOUR HIT PARADE
BY BUYING 
HIT RECORDS
ATMAJESTIC
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bldf.
SAEs Lead League 
As Final Week Begins
It looks as though the smoke has 
finally cleared in this seasons in
tramural race. The SAEs, continu
ing their steamroller tactics, won 
two games this week, which gives 
them a record of six victories 
against only one defeat. Their one 
remaining game is with Beta Sigma 
Rho. Upsets can happen, but with 
the championship within grasp, the 
SAEs should really be on the ball 
for their final game.
If the SAEs should lose to the 
Beta Sigs, then the Delts cannot be 
counted out of the race. Their rec
ord of five wins and two defeats 
puts them only one game behind 
the league leaders, and with deadshot Les Wahrenburg in good form 
the Delts should finish the season 
without another loss.
The first game of the week show
ed up and coming Citcom pitted 
against the DUs. Citcom was really 
on the beam as they notched a 33-17 
victory. In the second game of the 
same evening, Theta Xi was match
ed against the Kappa Sigs. The boys 
from TX won an easy 39-18 victory. 
It must be said for the Kappa Sigs, 
however,, that almost all of their 
best players are on the varsity and 
are therefore ineligible for intra
mural competition.
On Tuesday the SAEs were 
matched against the Tau Delts. The 
SAE powerhouse proved to be too 
much for the boys from Walnut 
street who were defeated by a 23-15 
score. This defeat eliminated the 
Tau Delts from the championship 
race.
On Thursday of the same week, 
Citcom proved to be the next vic
tim of the SAE aggregation. It 
proved to be a close gamehard 
fought to the final whistle. The final 
score showed the SAEs to be on 
the long end of an 18-20 score.
LEAGUE STANDINGS
Team Won Lost
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .......................... 6 1
Delta Tau Delta ...................................... 5 2
Tan Delta Phi ........................................ 3 3
Beta Theta Pi .......................................... 4 3
Citcom .....................................................5 3
Kappa Sigma ...........................................3 3
Theta Xi .................................................. 3 3
Beta Sigma Rho ...................................... 3 4
Delta Upsilon .........................................1 5
This was supposed to be the final 
week of the intramural league. 
However, because of postponements, 
the remaining games will be re
scheduled and played next week.
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
Skibo Tankers Rally 
To Win First Victory 
By Score of 38-37
In a really thrilling match at the 
Downtown YMCA, the Tartans 
proved their mettle when they ral
lied to outswim the YMCA boys by 
one point. The Tartans 200-yard 
relay team proved to be the decid
ing factor in enabling our team to 
win its first victory by a 38-37 score. 
Howard Johe, who has been the 
Tartans leading scorer throughout 
the season, won both the 220 and 
440-yard freestyles.
The summary:
150-yard medley relayWon by 
YMCA team of Goldfarb, Gruber, 
and Ryan. Time1:35:1.
220-yard freestyleWon by Johe, 
(CIT); Reed (CIT) second; Wil
loughby (YMCA) third. Time 
2:59:2.
50-yard dash  Won by Ryan 
(YMCA); Johe (CIT) second; Lew
is (CIT) third. Time25:6.
Fancy DivingWon by Bender 
(YMCA); Emerson (CIT) second; 
Harmer (YMCA) third. Points 31:6.
100-yard freestyleWon by Ryan 
(YMCA); Johe (CIT) second; Lew
is (CIT) third. Time1:09.
100-yard backstroke  Won by 
Goldfarb (YMCA); Eyrnan (CIT) 
second; Harmer (YMCA) third. 
Time1:10:8.
100-yard breaststrokeWon by 
Gruber (YMCA); Friedman (CIT) 
second; Gibian (CIT) third. Time 
1:25:4.
440-yard freestyleWon by Johe 
(CIT); Goldfarb (YMCA) second; 
Reed (CIT) third. Time6:28.
220-yard relayWon by Carnegie 
team of Eyman, Lewis, Kottesman, 
and Abramson. Time1:59:8.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
itmm $3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
SPORTS
Variety Is The Keynote of Games 
In Second Week of Section Tourney
C-12 Trounces C-ll, 47-28
C-12 could have quit after the first 
half as they scored more in the first 
half than did C-ll in the whole con
test. The first half tells the story of 
the game. Acquiring a twenty point 
lead, C-12, coasted through the sec
ond half, scoring only eleven points, 
to win by nineteen points. Elting 
and Davie shared the spotlight for 
C-12 while Boyd did yeomanlike 
work for C-ll, scoring thirteen 
points .
Baseball Game Won by A-32, 16-7
A-32 defeated A-31 in a novel 
game in which only twenty-three 
points were scored. The game was 
marked by frequent inaccuracies in 
shooting and tight defense work by 
both sides. No one man was out
standing on either team nor was 
there a foul committed during the 
whole game. (One wonders where 
the hell the ref was.)
E-ll Outclassed by E-12
Functioning like a well oiled ma
chine E-12 rolled over E-ll, 30-21. 
The scoring was evenly distributed 
among the hoopsters from E-12, a 
clear indication of smooth team 
work. Bailley of E-ll was the high 
man for the contest gathering 13 
points in a fast game, fast despite 
frequent fouling on the part of both 
teams.
C-51 Trips C-52, 23-11
Paced by Bezerman, C-51 beat 
C-52 by twelve pointsexactly the 
number of points contributed by Mr. 
Bezerman. The C-52 quintet was 
never in the game as C-51 romped 
off to a half-time lead at nine points. 
Glazer played a nice game for C-52.
C-32 Succumbs After Trojan Battle
Deserted by Lady Luck, (also Ju
piter, Venus, Mars, Mercury and a 
whole slew of lesser gods) C-32 
succumbed to C-31 in the last few 
minutes of play, 65-2. Van Wassenhove made the deucesomehow. 
The score should have been closer 
as Fitch almost made one. Ballov 
also made one which was discounted 
he put it in five minutes after the 
whistle had blown ending the game. 
Rosen, with twelve points, was high.
Game of The Week Won by B-52
In an overtime period, B-52 bested 
B-51 by one point, 26-25. B-51 de
pended mostly on Lenzini for its 
score while everyone on the wellknit B-52 five had a hand in the 
scoring with Plaisted high with 
eight points. Lenzini copped hon
ors with a total of fifteen points.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
1 4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street 
..................... 1111
A ll and B-ll Win Handily
Led by Kemper who scored an 
amazing total of twenty-two points, 
A-ll knocked off the A-12 aggrega
tion rather handily by a score of 
38-11. Hardy, with twelve points, 
showed the way for B-lls victory 
over B-42 to the tune of 30-9.
A-21, 17; A-22, 12
Short-stride George pitched in 
ten of his teams twelve points in 
their defeat at the hands of A-21. 
Sonz and Northrup were best for 
A-21 in a listless game that started 
out to get nowhere and succeeded.
Slow Contest Won by D-31
In a game which saw D-31 score
13 points in the first half and only a 
deuce in the second half, D-31 beat 
D-22, 15-4. The game was marked 
by a lack of roughness, action and 
scoring. Frequent bad passes made 
it look as if the game was being 
played out-of-bounds. Rowley, with 
6 points, was high for the winners. 
Lee Leads A-41 in One Point Victory
Scoring 10 points, Lee showed his 
mates the way to defeating A-42, 
19-18. The game was moderately 
fast, featuring good defensive play 
by both sides. Gubernat was best 
for A-42 with seven points.
B-52 Tops C-12, 22-17
Due to the smooth teamwork of 
the B-52 five Mr. Elting and com
pany went down to defeat by a 
margin of five points. Wilder and 
Strobel, two efficient forwards, 
paved the way for B-52. Davie and 
Fremont were best for C-12, scoring 
half of their teams total.
Drab Game Won by B-21
In a slow, uninteresting game, 
B-21 topped E-31, 13-8. The game 
was marked by inconsistencies on 
both parts and wasnt close til the 
last quarter when it looked, due to 
the many opportunities presented to 
score, that E-31 might win out. Katters and Raggi were best for E-31 
with four points apiece.
Sta/i of Ute Week
Center Steve Gaza Stars For 
ASTP In Successful Season
Everyone who has watched any 
of the AST games has remarked 
about the ability of the Uniteers 
talented center Steve Gaza. Steves 
specialty is his one handed pushshot, which he seems to be able to 
sink from all points around the op
posing teams basket. Twice this 
season he has accomplished the re
markable feat of scoring 37 points 
in one game. His shot, which is very 
difficult to guard against, plus his 
accuracy at the foul line, has en
abled him to compile a total of 389 
points for the season, an average of 
25.9 points per game.
One explanation of Steves abil
ity to consistently play good bas
ketball is the fact that he was born 
in the basketball-state of Indiana; 
Gary, Indiana, to be exact. Rumor 
has it that all male babies in Indi
ana are given basketballs to use as 
teething rings, just to get them used 
to handling a basketball. As is the 
case with most basketball stars, 
Steve began his training in high 
school. He was one of the stars of 
the Lew Wallace High School quin
tette of Gary.
After graduation from high 
school, Steve matriculated at Val
paraiso University, Valparaiso, In
diana. So far as Steve is concerned, 
although he thinks very highly of 
Carnegie Tech, it will be back to 
Valparaiso after the war. Valpa
raiso, like most college towns, is 
proud of the university; and like all 
Indiana towns, is particularly proud 
of the basketball team.
Steves history since entering the
AST at Carnegie is well known by 
every basketball fan. The perform
ance of the Uniteers has been one of 
the few bright spots in an otherwise 
drab athletic season. Captain Pickrel deserves great credit for whip
ping together one of the best teams 
(perhaps the best team) in the dis
trict. But there is no doubt that his 
task would have been considerably 
more difficult without the presence 
of Gaza. *
This will be Steves last semester 
at Carnegie. The army has decided 
that the AST program is no longer 
necessary. If in the future Steve 
should find himself face to face with 
an enemy pillbox, the German or 
Jap within will be a sorry mess if 
he displays the same accuracy with 
a hand grenade as he has with a 
basketball in tossing it through the 
hoops of the Tartan gym.
ets.
RED CROSS WAR FUND
Have a Coke = So glad youre back again
...or ivelcoming a home-coming sailor
Figbtiog men look forward to that home-world where friendliness 
and hospitality are summed up in the familiar phrase Have a Coke. 
Be sure and get Coca-Cola for your icebox at home. From Atlanta 
to the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes, 
has become a global symbol of good will and of good living.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMP AN F. PITTSBURGH, PA
Coke = Coca-Cola
Its natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbreviations. That's why you hear Coca-Cola called Coke.

---------------------------------------------------

THL dARNEGIE TARTAN
$ht dTatncjie piaid
TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1944
The Swimming Party 
Made a Big Splash
Last Saturday evening, when the 
Carnegie Tech pool became the old 
swimming hole for the Evening 
School Swimming party, the crowd 
really proved that they could make 
a splash of things. The swim be
gan at nine, shortly after which 
teams were organized for a game of 
water polo. It was quite an exciting 
battle, both sides giving their all 
in the struggle for those points to 
win the game for their team.
Anyone who managed to get his 
hands on the ball became the most 
popular person in the pool, although 
his popularity wasnt to be envied 
as once his pursuers caught up 
with him, he received a good duck
ing merely because he happened 
to have that precious ball in his 
possession.
When the game finally ended, the 
crowd quieted down considerably 
yes, we all needed a little time out 
to sit panting at the side of the pool. 
At eleven, everyone agreed that the 
exercise was just the thing we had 
needed to relax those tense muscles 
and that the fun that we had had 
was justwell, an evening of fun is 
welcome any time, isnt it?
PeMonaiiiu
We were sorry to hear that one 
of our former evening students, Lt. 
John Paul Brady, was reported 
missing in action over enemy terri
tory, April, 14; and now that his 
death has been officially confirmed 
by the Government, we know that 
Tech is going to miss a fine evening 
student. Lt. Brady was Bombardier-Navigator on a medium 
Mitchell bomber.
John was a mechanical engineer
ing student during 1938-40 semes
ters, leaving us in the 40-41 semes
ter. He was also a member of Phi 
Nu Fraternity and was well-liked 
by all who knew him. Even though 
John has left us, his memory will 
remain with us always.
According to our records, Lt. 
Brady lived in Monongahela City 
and was born November 14, 1919.
(E) Evening (S) Student 
(S) Shamrock (S) Swing
Been to any of the social affairs 
this semester? If you havent, 
heres your chance to attend one of 
this years nicest. Its the E S S S  
the Evening School Shamrock 
Swing, scheduled for Saturday, 
March 18, to be held in the Fine 
Arts Exhibition Hall.
The social committee has been 
doing some extensive planning to 
make this a gay event. The even
ings program promises loads of 
fun, including dancing to Bill LeRoys orchestra, and I hear tell the 
committee will present a radio 
sketch which were sure will be just 
as much a hit as the pantomine at 
the Valentine Party. So come to 
now, put aside those studies and let 
us see you Saturday, March 18 at 
the E S S S!
Well folks your 8-Ball editor has 
certainly been on the ball this week. 
After a stroll through the cemetery, 
she dug up a few new faces of inter
est; namely, William Ryan, Barney 
Meyer, John Persohn, Charles Kickbride, and John Betzaengineering 
students. By the way, they were 
reported to have been seen over in 
the Fine Arts Practice rooms a few 
days ago (hmm, couldnt be that 
Pittsburgh fog led them to mistake 
to the Fine Arts Building for the 
Engineering Building, could it)
. . . Chem students! Has anybody 
noticed whether Lois still wears 
that breath-taking black dress to 
the lab? I hope she hasnt tried 
mixing 02 with C02 (or doesnt it 
make any difference?) . . . Its act
ually against my principles to bet, 
but I will wager that half of us dont 
realize the talent of many of our 
fellow students. You havent heard 
Dolores Vielinski tickle the ivories? 
You should hear her arrangement 
of Marzydoats. Its super!!! And 
Norma Boss can certainly command 
her fingers on that violin of hers 
. . . Who was that gorgeous figure 
of an Irish Lass who hesitated in 
front of the bulletin near the cut the 
other night (this is definitely worth 
following up) . . . Ho Hum, two 
months of leap year have already 
slipped by and Im still leaping. I 
was actually tripped several times, 
but that doesnt count, or does it? 
... I saw you RuthI mean you 
Ruth McGraw. I saw you dancing 
with Bill Flagg over at the Canteen. 
Tell me how do you do it? It seems 
Bill wasnt doing so bad for himself 
either. I saw three girls surround
ing him and Bill could hardly make 
it up for air . . . Phil Carnvale, for
mer President of Industries, now 
with the Army Air Force is home 
for a few days leave and the lucky 
boy is to report back to Jackson
ville, Florida . . . Oh yes I did 
promise to reveal the meaning of 
E S S S to my public this issue. So 
before somebody murders me 
E S S S stands for EVENING 
SCHOOL SHAMROCK SWING. Its 
March 18 in case you havent heard. 
So reserve that night and Ill be 
seeing yo uat the Fine Arts Exhibi
tion Hall . . . Tsssfftt! Watch the 
danger sign. Merely an indication 
that Im running out of words (and 
arent you glad) so I guess I better 
sign off until next week. Tune in 
same time, same station.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Things to Think About
(This is the sixth in a series of articles 
discussing the decline of registration in 
the evening school).
Carnegie Tech is not the only insti
tution of learning to feel the pinch of 
curtailed registration during these 
war times and war activities, be as
sured of that. But, because we do 
have a war is no reason to assume 
that continued education and train
ing is not important. The reverse 
is actually more nearly the truth.
There have been urgent requests 
sent out all over the district for per
sons trained in numerous lines and 
those who were properly equipped 
received the most consideration. 
There is a safety measure present 
also in educational fitness through 
ability to render service in emer
gencies.
Let us consider how important 
education is during the present 
time. If we were not properly 
equipped with properly trained 
workmen where would our produc
tion records have been? To achieve 
the unheard of results and figures 
it took individuals to plan, to de
velop, to carry out orders and to 
bring fruition by actual manual 
skills and labor the ultimate results 
of the whole production scheme  
the planes, the ships, the tanks, the 
guns, the ammunition, and all those 
necessary and vital supplies which 
are needed in endless quantities.
Surely education and training has 
played a big part in helping us to 
write history in no uncertain terms. 
Nor can we ignore the facts that 
when the present war is over and 
we return once again to peace time 
pursuits that more and more train
ing will be needed everywhere. War 
has brought rapidly to the fore
ground unheard of uses for common 
everyday things. New discoveries 
have been made in every field of 
endeavor in the realm of education. 
As a consequence of these advances 
and the progression forward more 
urgent demands are going to be 
made on the individual for train
ing. Competition is going to be in
creased and keener.
Carnegie Tech is one place in 
our district where one can get the 
necessary training. It is not neces
sary that a person quit his present 
daily employment to take advan
tage of the facilities of the institu
tion as the evening courses offer 
splendid opportunities for advance
ment. Provisions have been made 
in the past to meet the needs, they
YOU AND YOUR 
OUT-OF-TOWN FRIENDS
Will find comfortable accommodations
itmL WmBStmR iALL
Be sure to make reservations well in 
advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
TECH MEN AND WOMEN ARE 
ESPECIALLY WELCOME
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Opposite Mellon Imtitati
MAyflower 7700
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor i *
Edward A. Macha
News Editor }
Joseph Rymar 
Photographer v
George Riffle
Page edited by Evening School Students of CaT negie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.Staff
Gladys Bayer Elmer Decima Norma L. DeLillo Mary DeMaria Albert C. Flanders John Hundertmark Doris Kenneweg Thelma KitchenFred Vichich
William E. Kuskie Joseph E. Luncher S. W. Marcinizyn E. E. McDonald Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray Carolina Noll Dorothy Papa
Engineer Banquet 
Tickets On Sale
Tickets for the 29th Annual En
gineers Banquet are on sale. They 
can be purchased from any of the 
officers or Social Committee mem
bers; and if these are not handy to 
you, Mr. McKelway in Room 255-C, 
Industries Hall, always has some on 
hand. The price is $3.00, which is 
very reasonable considering the 
present cost of food and talent. The 
Social Committee is striving to 
make this affair the best social 
function of this year.
The dinner is to be a hot meal 
with all the trimmings. The sou
venirs bags promise to be filled to 
the brimthe door prizes are very 
desirable  and the best show in 
town will be present. Remember, 
the place is the Gold Room, Roose
velt Hotel and the date is April 1. 
This happens to be April Fools 
Day, and if you happen to let this 
date slip by without attending the 
banquet, you will most undoubtedly 
be the biggest fool of the year.
Get your tickets now!
are now, and will, no doubt, be in 
the future. Those of us who are 
around should make our needs 
known and encourage our fellow 
workmen and associates to take ad
vantage of adult education and 
what is being offered. From the 
habit of laying aside someof your 
time for education in the evening 
classes. Youll not regret it. There 
is a wonderful satisfaction in know
ing that you prepared yourself for 
the future.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
