JUNIOR TEA DANCE 
THURSDAY 
IN UNIONgif ITartan
SPECIAL TRAINS TO 
WASH-JEFF 
SATURDAY
VOL. XX NO. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1925
MT. ST. MARYS 
IS DEFEATED IN 
EASY FASHION
DR. EWERS TO BE SPEAKER
AT CHAPEL THIS WEEK
Bastian, Beede and Donohoe 
Are Luminaries of OneSided Game
SCORE OF 34-0 SPELLS 
DEFEAT FOR VISITORS
Interference Shows Great 
Improvement  Linemen 
Due Praise
Dr. John R. Ewers, Pastor o the 
East End Christian Cliurcli will he the 
speaker at the chapel service to he 
held on Thursday, October 15, in the 
Fine Arts Theatre at 12:50.
Dr. Ewers is not a stranger to Car
negie Tech students. He has spol'.fen at 
the chapel service at various times 
during other years and his address ia 
always received with keen interest.
Mr. Matthew Frye, organist of the 
Little Treater has arranged the musi
cal program for the services. The 
Bach Choir will join the audience iy 
the singing of liymns.
Y. W. C. A. representatives wili co
operate with the Y. M. CA. by having 
a committee of tbeir members help 
pass song books and programs.
Carnegie succeeded in overcoming 
her second opponent of the season 
last Saturday by defeating the highlytouted MtSt. Mary team 34 to 0. The 
Maryland Mountaineers came to Pitts
burgh with a good reputation among 
local football fans, having held the 
Georgetown University eleven to a 
19-13 score.
Carnegie held complete mastery 
during the entire game. Bastians 
speedy runs around the terminals, 
coupled with the line smashing of 
Beede and Donohoe earned numerous 
firstdowns for the Tartans. On the 
other hand, Mt. St. Marys succeeded 
in earning only one first down, that 
being the result of a beautiful pass 
from Abbaticcliio to Russo.
The first touchdown was made by 
Captain Beede, using the spinner 
play. This play bewildered the op
ponents just as it has others in past 
games. Beede ran forty yards to reg
ister the first six points of the game.
Bastian made himself conspicuous 
with long runs made around the Mt. 
St. Mary ends. Max proved too fast 
for the lads from Maryland, and 
gained at will. Not long after Captain 
Beede made the first touchdown, Bas
tian added another by iunning back 
a punt from his own 15-yard line. 
This proved to be the biggest thrill 
of the contest as he apparently had 
been tackled by two of his apponents, 
only to shake them off and continue 
his 85-yard run.
Mt. St. Mary's offense was futile, 
as neither the line nor aerial attacks 
proved gaining propositions. Camp
bell, husky tackle, had the reputation 
for punting consistently from 50 to 
60 yards. His punts Saturday were 
very poor, many of them not being 
over 35 yards.
The Carnegie team in general 
played fine ball. The line held on 
nearly every defensive play, and very 
seldom were the backs called on to 
stop a St. Mary runner. Bastian 
gained most ground for the Tartans 
and was the star of the day. Beede 
and Donohoe also played excellently 
while carrying tbe ball.
The spinner," a play that has made 
(Continued on Page Three.)
STEWARDS SERVICE IN 
PLACE OF CO-OP BUYING
On Tuesday evening, September 22, 
a meeting of the fraternity stewards 
was held at the Woodlawn club; to 
discuss the possibility and plausi
bility of a co-operative buying plan.
The conclusions arrived at were as 
follows: First, that co-operative buy
ing at the present time would be im
possible; second, that co-operative 
buying in the near future is possible 
and worthwhile results at that time 
are to be expected. In order to pave 
the way for the plan the following 
scheme was evolved. A stewards 
service will be established weekly or 
bi-weekly, mimeographed bulletins are 
to be mailed to each steward, thsso 
sheets to contain current prices, sug
gested menus, and any other informa
tion which may be thought valuable 
to the steward.
In order to bring this plan before 
the fraternities whose stewards were 
not present at the meeting, a com
mittee consisting of L. P. Beebe and 
F. C. Paterson was ordered to prepare 
a letter to be sent to these fraterni
ties. It is hoped that this letter will 
be given immediate attention in order 
that the plan may be put in oper
ation at once. In order that success 
be attained it is necessary that each 
fraternitiy see that its steward attend 
the next meeting, to be announced in 
the near future.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL STAFF
WANT PLEBES AT SMOKER
The Technical Journal Staff will 
hold a smoker in the Commercial club 
room, Science building, Thursday eve
ning, October 15, at seven-thirty. Re
freshments and entertainment are on 
the program.
As this is the first business meeting 
of the year, all staff members and as
sistants are urgently requested to be 
on hand. Any freshmen boys who 
wish to tryout for staff positions are 
invited to attend. It is advisable that 
the Plebes be on hand at this smoker. 
The earlier these men get into the 
work the better their chances of 
lecting the particular line circulation, 
advertising or editorial, in which they 
would like to work.
The Technical Journal is an Engi
neering magazine, published and ed
ited solely by Engineering students. 
It is published four times a year. The 
first issue for this year will appear 
sometime during November.
E. G. Pierson heads the staff, with
F. L. Wagner as Business Manager.
BIG INCREASE IN 
NIGHT SCHOOL 
REGISTRATION
TARTAN REPORTERS TO
MEET TOMORROW AT 1:00 I
SIGMA EPSILON PHISIGMA PHI EPSILON
Local Fraternity Installed as 
Pennsylvania Theta 
Chapter
14th NATIONAL FRAT
Pennsylvania Theta chapter of Sig
ma Phi Epsilon was officially installed 
on the Carnegie Campus last Thurs
day night when the members of Sigma 
Epsilon Phi,, local fraternity, were 
initiated into the national at the chap
ter house of the local organization, 
4929 Forbes street. The installation 
team, which was composed of men 
from the Penn State, West Virginia 
chapters, and Pittsburgh Alumni, was 
headed by W. L. Phillips of Richmond, 
Virginia, Grand Secretary of Sigma 
Phi Epsilon, and Clifford Scott, Grand 
Historian. A banquet on Friday eve
ning and a formal dance Saturday 
night formally closed the installation.
The banquet, held Friday evening at 
the Schenley Hotel, was attended by 
many of the alumni of Sigma Epsilon 
Phi who were initiated with the active 
body, as well as the active members 
and pledges of the old local, many 
Pittsburgh Alumni of Sigma Phi Epsi
lon, and Representatives of nearby 
chapters. Speeches by the national 
offiers and Pittsburgh Alumni featured 
the evening.
On Saturday night an Installation 
Ball was held at the University Club. 
The guests included officers of the 
school administration, representatives 
of each of the Carnegie fraternities, 
and members of Sigma Phi Epsilon 
residing in this district.
Sigma Epsilon Phi is the fourteenth 
fraternity at Carnegie to be granted a 
charter by a national. During its six 
years of existence it has experienced 
a rapid and sound growth, and has in 
its membership many men prominent 
in campus affairs. It petitioned Sigma 
Phi Epsilon late in the spring of 1924, 
and after a year of diligent labor its 
efforts culminated in the granting of 
that charter early last June. It was 
then too late in the term to consider 
installation at that time so that the 
ceremony was deferred until this fall.
CIRCULATION LIBRARY OPENS
AT WOODLAWN PHARMACY
The Woodlawn Pharmacy, located 
at the corner of Forbes and Wood
lawn, has opened a circulating library, 
which is at the disposal of the stu
dents of Carnegie.
There are available at this time, 
one hundred and fifty volumes by 
modern authors. These may be ob
tained by any student who presents 
a registration card. No deposit is 
necessary; a charge of three cents 
per book will be made for every twen
ty-four hours the book is in use.
Although there is no time limit, the 
students are requested to return 
books in four days, so that they may 
be available to a greater number of 
students.
The circulating library offers many 
books which are not on the shelves of 
the public library, or difficult to ob 
tain because of the great demand for 
them.
More Than Three Thousand 
Expected Before End of 
Enrollment
NIGHT MEN HAVE
STUDENT COUNCIL
Gymnasium and Swimming 
Pool to be Open During 
Scheduled Hours
Dr. Ilirig, director of night school 
at Carnegie, says over three thousand 
are expected to enroll this year in 
the night courses, as compared to two 
thousand andeight hundred last year. 
On October 6, 1925, 2,551 students 
were registered as compared to 2.401 
on October 15, 1924, clearly indicating 
that the three thousand mark will 
probably be reached.
An examination of the following 
figures will show the increase of the 
1925 figures over those of 1924: 
Colleges Oct. G, Oct. 15,
1925 1924
Industries .........1,669................... 1,614
Engineering  510................... 430
Arts ................... 372.................. 357
The large increase in engineering 
students is especially commendable 
owing to the comparative difficult en
trance examinations. The automobile 
maintenance department at the pres
ent rate of registration will soon be 
filled, while the number entered in the 
plumbing courses will necessitate the 
establishment of three sections. Last 
year there were two sections and tho 
year before thore was one. Two new 
elective courses have been added to 
the original thirteen. These are Eiiglish III and the History of Civiliza
tion. Twenty scholarships are of
fered this year tending to stimulate 
study.
A student council has been organ
ized by the night students to handle 
tho affairs and publications which are 
instrumental in drawing the students 
together as an organization capable of 
holding the numerous dances and the 
annual parade.
The gymnasium and swimming pool 
will be open to the men and women 
students during regularly scheduled 
hours of the day and evening. A com
petent instructor will have charge of 
these classes.
Registration has been indefinitely 
held opon to encourage those who 
have not yet decided which of the 
courses to enter.
STRINGERS ISSUE CALI. 
FOR NEW CANDIDATES
The Stringers, the girls musical 
club of Carnogie, extends a cordial 
invitation for tryouts to all Carnegie 
girls who play musical instruments. 
Those desiring tryouts should see 
Grace Glennan. the new president.
The Stringers held its opening meet
ing of the year on Wednesday, Octo
ber 8, Grace Glennan was elected, 
president, and Margaret S'cheller, secretary-treasurer.
Dependent upon the incoming 
classes for new sources of talent and 
ability, the Stringers are calling for 
more candidates. The outlook for the 
coming year is promising and there 
will be many opportunities to play for 
Campus affairs, banquets, entertain
ments and concerts.
Those who were successful in their 
tryouts are, Madeline Ferguson, Doro
thy Lutz, Evelyn Rawlings and Phyl
lis Graham.
Investigation of Engineering
Education Reveals New Facts
Realizing the need of an investiga
tion of engineering education, a so
ciety for the Promotion of Engineer
ing education has been formed with 
Mr. W. E. Wickenden, former Vice 
President of the Bell Telephone Com
pany as acting head.
The purpose of being to discover, 
facts relating to the progress of En
gineering, and to later suggest im
provements based on this data.
The society is financed, by a grant 
of 5108,000 from the Carnegie Cor
poration. It co-operates with over a 
hundred colleges in the many inter
esting causes for the failure or pro
gress in this particular field of learn
ing.
One phase of the investigation is 
that of preparation for an Engineer
ing education. The committee has 
found a surprising deterioration in the 
preparation given by the High Schools 
of this country in the past ten years.
---------
There will be a meeting of all new 
reporters, freshmen and sophomores, 
Wednesday at 1:00 oclock in tho Pub-1 
licatiou Office of the Tartan, on the j 
bottom fioor of Industries building. | 
The old reporters will meet at the 
same time.
The news editors will discuss and 
critcize the reporters assignment* of 
last week and new work will bo given 
out. There is still plenty of oppor
tunity for newcomers to become in
terested in Tartan work. Reporters 
are being instructed in the technique 
of college newspaper writings. Each 
week they meet with the editors, their 
work is criticized, mistakes are point
ed out and new assignments are given 
out.
This method has proved successful 
so far and the quality of the work 
handed in is steadily improving.
Fraternities should interest their 
freshmen in this line of publication 
work, as it is a chance to meet im
portant people about the campus and 
it is a good way.to establish oneseli 
in a recognized campus activity.
FRATSPLEDGE 
181 MEN DURING 
RUSHING PERIOD
STUDENT T DRIVE 
OCTOBER 28 AND 29
Lindauer Heads Committee 
With Gill, Brookmeyer and 
Goodwin as Aides
TO SOLICIT AA MEN
The Carnegie Student Y. M. C. A. 
will open a two day membership 
drive on October 2S. Karl' Lindauer, 
Commercial Engineering senior and 
member of Theta Xi Fraternity is stu
dent chairman of the campaign com
mittee, working under supervision of 
Secretary Davis. Mike Goodwin of 
Arts, Ray Gill of Industries and It. A. 
Brookmeyer of Science, will servo as 
team captains. Two hundred and fifty 
men will work with these loaders.
Tentatively, the details of the drive 
are much tho samo as in previous 
years. All Carnegie men, irrespective 
of creed or color, are eligible for mem
bership. No doilnite fee is assossod, 
each man donating according to his 
own judgment. Personal solicitation of 
all Carnegie men will be attempted.
In connection with this campaign, 
the Tartan pre^env*, the following 
resume for the benefit of new students, 
and old students unfamiliar with tho 
work of tbis organization.
The Y has enjoyed a romarkablo 
growth on the Carnegie campus. Last 
year ovor forty per cent of tho men 
students signed up. This is an indica
tion of the esteem which tho older 
students feel for this organization, as 
a result of its earnest attempts to promoto new student activities and foster 
the old.
Tho Y supervises or provides tho 
following:
Plobe-Senior Councellorships.
Interfraternity Basket Ball Leaguo.
Institute Chapols every Thursday.
Religious discussion groups.
Entertainment and special care of 
foreign students.
Co-operation with local churches, by 
which the churches are able to esta
blish personal contact with students of 
the various faithsCashing of students checks.
Visitation of students confined in 
local hospitals, and provisions of radio 
sets for all such students.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Shilling Preparing 
For Initial Number
Schedule Magazines First Is
sue For October 26
This is especially true with respect 
to Mathematics and English. The av
erage high school student lacks the 
power of original thinking, solely be
cause of a lack of proper training in 
self-reliance. The methods of the av
erage I-Iigh school seems to be imi
tative rather than reasoning.
Another interesting phase is that 
of choice of career. The investiga
tion reveals that 85 per cent of En
gineering students made their choice 
in High School. Many of them realize 
little of the true scope and life-work 
of an engineer.
Investigation into causes of failure 
disclose the fact that 49 per cent fail 
because of scolastic inability, of these 
perhaps 90 per cent owe their failure 
purely to lack of proper High School 
preparation. Very few college fail
ures are due to lack of inherent apti
tude. It was found that health and 
financial difficulties were compara
tively small factors as causes of fail
ure in Engineering work, having a to
tal of only 10 per cent.
The first issue of the Shilling will 
appear on the campus on October 26. 
With this number, the new policy of 
the magazine goes into effect. For
mer numbers rarely dealt with campus 
life. But from now on, the Shilling 
will be devoted entirely to literature 
of primary interest to the college 
man and woman.
This first number offers many ciever 
stories of college people and college 
life, several interesting essays, and a 
sprinkling of poetry. In enlarging its 
scope, the Shilling has permanently 
established a department of literary 
criticism, for the discussion of books 
which are occupying the attention of 
literary circles. The selection of the 
books will be based on the tastes of 
college people.
The new Shilling staff, of which 
(Continued on Page Three.)
New Rushing Rules Pending 
Cause Fraternities to 
Seek Further
SMALLER NUMBER
THAN LAST YEAR
New Men Better Informed 
on Fraternities Than 
Predecessors
FIRST JUNIOR TEA DANCE
WILL BE HELD THURSDAY
A Junior tea dance will be held in 
the Union this Thursday, October 15. 
Excellent music will bo furnished for 
thy dancing, which will bo from 1:30 
6:00 P. M. All students are invited to 
attend.
This is tlio first of a series of tea 
dances which will be hold in the Union 
this year and which will bo sponsored 
by the Junior Tea Dance Committee. 
This committee is composed of three 
men from each of the Seionce, Arts 
and Industries, three girls from Mar* 
garot Morrison, and one girl from 
Art school. The committees purpose 
in arranging these dances is that they 
believe this will give tho students a 
better chance to become acquainted 
and at the samp time wil provide them 
with entertainment.
During the formal rushing season, 
a total of 181 new men were pledged 
by the 19 fraternities on the Carnegie 
Campus. All tho fraternities, aware 
that the new rushing rules, as sug
gested to the Inter fraternity Council 
are pending, have obtained an un
usually good group of men this year.
Up to November 15 of the 192*1' 
1925 rushing season, there were col
lectively 244 men pledged. This in
cluded tho pledges of the year before, 
and the now men.
At the' presont time there is a slight 
decrease in tho number of men 
pledged. This may be duo to tho fact 
that tho men are apparently well in
formed in fratornity mattors and are 
demanding a greater time for careful 
reflection.
The special committee of the 
Eecutive Board of Carnegie have sug
gested to the Inter-fraternity council 
that rushing oil next yoar should be
gin at mld-somestor and in 1927-1928, 
should not talco place until after tho 
mid-semoster examinations o tho 
second.
Cognizant of tho fact that, this sug
gestion is ponding by tho Intor-fratornity Council at their next mooting, 
each fraternity is striving to obtain a 
larger number oC plodgoa than It had 
in former yoars. With this rule In 
effect, each fraternity will subsist 
Avlth a smallor group of mon until tho 
next rushing season.
Tho number of pledges of oaoh fra
ternity are as follows:
Alpha S'igma Phi .............................. 7
Alpha Tau Omoga ...............................12
I3ota Sigma Rho .............................. 0
Bota Theta PI ...................................1.1
Doltd Chi Rho .................................. I)
Delta Mu .............................................. 6
Dolta Phi Dolta .................................. 7Delta Tau Dolta ..............................10
Dolta JUNIIORR TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT E
Kappa Sigma .....................................10
Phi Kappa ...........................................15
Pi Kappa Alpha .................................10Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...................10Sigma Nu ........................................10
Sigma Phi Epsilon ...........................1.8Theta XI .........................................I I
Woodlawn Club .................................10
COMMITTEE TO WORK OUT 
ACTTVITY-POINT SYSTEM
A committee to work out a system 
of Activities Points was appointed at 
the last meeting of tho Student Coun
cil. Tho chairman of the committee 
is Mike Goodwin and his assistants 
are Barabara White and Sid Forbes, 
These peopjo have been in sufficient 
activities to warrant their appoint
ment.
The question of a system of giving 
points for activities has come up sev
eral times in the last few years and 
has always been considered unfavora
bly. The system gives credit for ex
tra curricular activities in points per 
semester and based on the time the 
average person spends in working for 
the various organizations. For grad
uation a student must have acquired 
a minimum number of these pcinta. 
A maximum is also placed so that the 
student may not take part in too many 
activities and have too little time to 
put in on his school work.
'the committee is to investigate this 
system and make a report at the next 
meeting of the Council.
STAGE SET FOR 
PIGSKIN CLASSIC 
W1THWASH-JEFF
THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
OPENS THIS WEEK
Year Book Salesmen Start 
Thorough Canvas of 
Campus
ORDERS TAKEN TODAY
The sales campaign of the Thistle, 
Yoar book of Carnegie, starts today. 
Orders for Thistles will be taken at 
desks placed in tho most conspicuous 
points on tho Campus. Each dormi
tory, as well as each fratornity, has 
an authorized salesman who will can
vas his assigned territory.
This years Thistle is a very attrac
tive book and is woll worth tho foe 
oxponiled for it. In fact, such a vol
ume could not bo purchased elsewhere 
lor loss than twlco tho price, as most 
of the work on it is dono by studonta 
who demand no monotary remuner
ation lor their labor.
It; Is only natural that tho Thistle 
should improvo each yoar. Tho com
ing issuo is no exception to this sup
position. A beautiful olght-pago viow 
section of our greatly improved Cam
pus is a now addition this yoar. Tiloso 
viows are finished in full colors and 
aro a vory valuable addition to tho 
book. Vory fow yoar books can boast 
of such a soction, as it is limited to 
only tho best oC annuals.
Tho art work and designs are all 
dono by our own Art department. 
Several dosigns have already been 
submitted and they , are of tho name 
high calibre as those of formor yoarn.
The Canton Engraving Company, 
who has dono tho ongravlng on tho 
two previous Issues, has charge of this 
year's ongravlng also. Tho printing 
Is to bo done by Jlakor, Jones and 
Hausaul', Ino,, oI! Buffalo, Now York,
Tho Thistle sells for $4.50 but an 
Initial payment of two dollars and a 
hall! now will placo you on tho list, of 
those' who will bo the first to rocolvo 
tholr Thlstlos next spring.
CARNEGIE INSTRUCTOR IS
MADE HEAD OF NEW SCHOOL
Miss Elizabeth Dyor, who has booti 
for tho past L'our yours Suporvlsor of 
tho Research Dureau for Rotali Train
ing at Carnoglo, lias boon nppolntod 
Director oi! tho Sohool of Household 
Admlnlstratlon al; tho Unlvorsity of 
cincinnati. Thls scliool ls a now dopnrtmont of tho U, of C. and Miss 
Dyor has dovolopod a curriculum 
whlch is a distinct Improvomont in 
tho motliod ol! prosentlng such a 
courso. Miss Dyor ls a graduato of 
Vassar Colleg and boforo comlng to 
Carnegio Tech was for two yoars assistant director of ilio Princo S'cnool 
of Education at Simmons College.
Record Crowds Assured For 
Saturdays Game With 
Traditional Enemy
PRELIM AT 1:00
VARSITY AT 2:30
Interest High in Preliminary 
Between Plebes and 
Little Presidents
Unusual enthusiasm is being mani
fested this year by the student body 
in the annual pilgrimage to W. & J. 
Wally Lynch and Beauny Poo, offi
cial bouncers for the Graduate Man
agers office, have had a difficult time 
maintaining order in the continuous 
line of students besieging the office 
for tickets. And no wonder, for of 
the several gridiron strugglos popu
larly known as "classics bocauso of 
tho intense rivalry between tho par
ticipating schools, the CarnegieW. 
& J. game stands out in tlio Tri-State 
district.
The first of tho three special trains 
chartered for tho game loaves Union 
Dopot at ll:iO a. m., the second at 
11:50 a. m., and tho third at 12:85 
p. in. All throe stop at Fourth avenue, 
and tho 12:35 also stops at Carnoglo 
at 12:5S p. m. Two of tho specials 
will leave Washington at ten minute 
intervals Immediately after tho gamo 
and tho third at 11:55 p. m. It should 
bo noted that the time of departure 
of tills last train from Little Wash
ington ls 11:55 p. m. instead of mid
night an reported in last weeks Tar
tan. Tickets purchasod for tlioso 
trains will also bo good on tho regu
lar trains.
No studont who has ovor boon on 
tho W. & J. trip will miss tho one this 
year. It Is a vital part of Carnogio 
traditions. Ono lung, dollogiato Fords 
shouldnt ho dopondod on at; such a 
critical time. Thoro are numerous 
stoop hills botwoon hero and Little 
Washington and tho parking situa
tion In that town is bad. Tho trains 
are ADCOH Cheap, and sal'o and that's 
tlio way tho gang Is going. Tho .Penn
sylvania Railroad is extending ovory 
courtesy to the school and will ovefu 
provide sovoral of tlio coaches with 
tho oil lamps that proved so popular 
last; yoar. It was noticed that tho 
lamps wore Invariably blown out on 
onl.ering a tunnol.
The scenery along the route bo
twoon Pittsburgh and Washington is 
varied and boautil'ul. Students from 
tho plains will bo attracted by the/ 
broad, lovol meadows In which kino 
may bo soon awaiting the approach of 
it rosy cheoluul milkmaid (William 
Wordsworth style) who Is to be soou 
singing down the path from the farmliouso (19,2 miles from Union Dopot). 
A little farther on, tho mouutalneor 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
DRAMA DEPT. TO PRODUCE 
HANNELE-DREAM PLAY
CARNEGIE A. I. E. E. WILL HOLD
SMOKER TOMORROW NIGHT
The Carnegie Branch of the Ameri
can Engineers will hold a smoker in 
Room 11, Machinery Hall at seventhirty tomorrow evening. The pro
gram will be a very interesting one 
and every one is invited to attend.
A. L. Humphreys, President of 
Pittsburgh chapter of the A. I. E. E. 
will give an informal talk. An enter
taining program of stunts, short talks 
from the faculty and members ot the 
'Society, eats and smokes, lias been 
prepared. Every one if a member or 
not is invited.
The officers of the Carnegie A. I. 
E. E. are: G. L. LeBaron, President; 
Kit Carson, Secretary, and H. E. Ash
worth, Treasurer.
Dram at Performances Drew
40,000 to Theater Last Year
DIED
Mlsa Marie Emelyn Potts, a 
member of the Junior clans of 
Margaret Morrison, (lied Friday 
night, October 9, as a result of 
an attack of meningitis. Marie 
was registered in the Secreta
rial course and roomed In Cy
press Hall dormitory. Her 
home was 504 West College 
street, Canonsburg, Pa.
This was the third year that 
Miss Potts had attended Car
negie, coming here In 1923 from 
Canonsburg High school. She 
was a great favorite among the 
girls of her class, and was ac
tive in the affairs of the college. 
She will be buried from her 
home.
Audiences totalling 40,000 people, 
it is estimated, attended student per| formances given in the Little Arts 
Theater the past year, according to 
Glendenning Keeble, Chairman of the 
Faculty of tho College of Fine Arts. 
This estimate, the report points out, 
is based upon the fact that 10?. per
formances wero given, and that the 
theater was tilled to Its capacity of 
400 for nearly every performance, 
Due allowance ls made In the esti
mate, the report further suggests, for 
Inclement weather that cut down at
tendance at several of the perfor
mances. No estimate ls made of the 
number of peoplo turned away at 
each presentation.
In addition to a large number of 
short plays produced by the students 
of the Department of Drama during 
the year, eleven "long plays were 
presented with runs of three to 
twelve performances. The longest 
run was twelve performances of Mer
ry Wives* of Windsor," the Shakes
peare play selected this year to commerorate the bitrhday of the famous 
bard.
Other plays given were "The Critic," 
"Pair of Spectacles," "Chains, "Anne 
Pedersdotter, "Her Husbands Wife, 
"Iphlgenia In Tauris, "The High 
Cuds, "One In Every Homo, "Smart 
Alec and Amaryiis, and "Tho Fair, 
The new plays among those were "Ono 
In Every Home, written by Harry 
Hamilton, a graduate of tho Dopartmeent of Drama In 1924, and "Smart 
Alec and Amaryiis," written by Car
roll Fltzhugh, of Pittsburgh,
Representative short plays produced 
In groups of three or four at various 
periods included "Wbero Love Is, 
"Brains/' "Neighbors, "Trouping In 
The Sticks," Dodds Boy, The Sad 
Faced Pierrot, Light in tho Dark, 
and "Creatures of Impulse.'
Several outdoor productions were 
also given in tho open air theater, al
though the attendance at these per
formances was not considered In the 
40,000 estimate furnished by the De
partment of Drama.
"ITunnolO a dream play by Gerhart 
Httuplnmn will bo produced by tho 
Drama Department in tho Little Thea
ter on Friday, October 16, at 8:15 p. 
in. This play will continuo for ono 
week with performances on tho 17,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24. A special 
matinee performance will be given 
Friday, October 23, at 4 p. m.
The play, which is under the direc
tion of Professor Chester Wallace, is 
the first of Plauptmans plays to bo 
produced by tho Drama Department 
in recent years. It is a beautiful fan
tasy in which the action passes from 
dream to reality and back to dream 
again with delightful transitions. Tho 
cast has been carefully chosen by 
Profossor Wallace and is as follows:
Haiinele ...............Virginia Williams
Gottwald ..........Joe IT. Wadsworth
Sister Martha...........Mary Jennings
Tulpe .......................Josephine Copas
Hedwig .......................Leah Rothman
Pleschko .................Walter Rodgers
Hauke .............................Robert Pike
Slidel .............................Sol Schwartz
Berger .............................Max Sholes
Schmidt .................Charles Webster
Dr. Wachler.................F. Leon Ford
There appear to Hannole in her 
dreams her mother, Allene Szold; her 
father, Ilardie Albright; the village 
tailor, Donald Wilson.
DEAN GREEN GUEST OF PI
8IGMA TAU AT TEA TODAY
Tins afternoon in the new Womons 
Club Room, t]ie members of Pi Sigma 
Tau, the honorary Journalistic socloty 
for Carnogio women, are having an In
formal tea at which Miss Green, Doan 
of Women, ls to be tho guost of honor.
The members of PI Sigma Tau aro 
chosen from the girls of Margaret 
Morrison and the Collego of Fine Arts, 
In recognition of meritorious work 
dono on Carnegie publications.
One of the chief aims of the society 
is to encourage and direct the efforts 
of girls who are interested in working 
on tlio various Carnegie publications.
To arouse enthusiasm and stimulate 
interest, the Pi Sigma Tau has been 
urging girls to compete for staff posi
tions on the different Carnegie publi
cations.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTMP CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13. 1925
a ooqn-. >$jhow
'SH ETI MES ~ :'OfeEAT:;,! ; ONE -r
Carnegie Cited For 
Merits of C.E. Course iPIG8KIN CLASSIC
WITH WASH-JEFFie Alumnigif fITa
Published every week by undorgraduuto of tlio Carnogio Instltuto ot 
Technology under tho supervision of tlio Student Council. _______
EDntered In tlio Postonico of Plttaburgli (second class matter.________
(Continued From Pago One.) 
will bo made homesick by the tower
ing ridges of sandstone capped with 
enormouH trecH Btrutting their stuff 
with stately dignity. For the more 
blaso, the usual number of Five Hun
dred games will be in progress.
Arrived at Washington, tho entire 
BtUdont body, headed by Head Cheer 
Leader Pete Seamans, his associates, 
and the Kilties, will parade through 
the town to College Field,
After the game, students can cele
brate by taking their best co-ed to one 
of the numerous fraternity or public 
dancos held In Washington that nightFor tho ruraly Inclined, corn husking 
bees, barn raisings, and rustic dancen 
will probably be found In the vicinity. 
One of the specials will be held over 
until 11:55 p. m. for the benefit of the 
joy-makers. In case of a victory, the 
Pennsylvania Railfoad has promised 
to provide the specials with box cars 
for dancing. Remember the Cleveland 
trip two years ago?
Tho first two spelals leaving Pitts
burgh will arrive in time for tho 
Plebe-Llttle President game at 1:00 p. 
m. Since the sweeping win of the 
Plebes over Slippery Roclc in their 
opening game, something never before 
accomplished, Interest is mounting 
high in the preliminary game with the 
W. & J. Freshmen. It will be remem
bered that the Little Presidents de
feated the Plebes last year by a 7-0 
score after four quarters of the finest 
kind of football. Many critics are 
looking for a reversal of that score 
(his yoar in spite of the fact that the 
Wash-Jeff Freshmen have an unusu
ally strong combination.
With tho IcIclc-off of the Varsity 
game at 2:30, the Carnegie squad will 
attempt to lly the Plaid colors in vic
tory over a typical Dave Morrow 
teama fast, heavy line and a versa
tile backfield. It is five years since 
tho trick was successfully turned by 
a Carnegie team. The return of Bill 
Amos, a triple threat half-back to the 
line-up gives W. & J. a slight edge in 
the contest, but tho Tartan mentors 
havo succeeded in getting their 
charges to top form for the game Sat
urday and victory is not unattainable.
By way of summary, it is worthy of 
note that out of the last five games 
played with W. & J., three havo re
sulted in defeat, ono in' victory, and 
ono in a tie. In '20 the Slcibos de
feated tho Presidents on the home lot 
by (5-0. In '21 they lost 14-0 through
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Mrs. Alone Gregory Alien, A25, 
caro of American -Security & Trust 
Company.
Leslie A. Allison, ID25, 1802 Ingleslde Terrace, N, W.
James R, Arnold, Ifl'18* 24 Second 
street, N. 13.
Mrs. Carloton M. Brown, M18, 54 
Observatory Circle, N. W,
John C. Byler, K22, 3004 25th street, 
N, 32.
Arturo Y. Casanova, E22, 727 Ken
nedy street,
Gilbert C, Clark, E'20, 110 Gtli street* 
N. IS.
Mrs, 0, C, Clark, M20, 11 0th 
street, N. E.
Dimitri D, Dimancosco, I22, care ot 
Roumanian Legation.
Roy C. Cordorman, E'23, Ex. 4401 
Leland street, N. W.
Abraham II. Golden, E24, 3809 Liv
ingston street, Chovy Chase.
David H. Cottwals, F24, 925 15th 
street, care of M. & R. E. Warren.
Lois A. Hall (cftlored) M12, 1210 
Girard street, N. W.
Floyd II. Harris, E24, care of Y. 
M. C. A.
Kathryn Harris, A20, 728 17th
streot.
William Harris, A25, 1505 Lamont 
street, N. W.
James W. Hopkins, E'25, 1730 G 
street, N. W.
Francis Z. Hough, E24, 1423 Monroe 
streot, N. W.
Joseph Isaacs, E21, 1G11 31st street, 
N. W.
William Islor, E21, 1789 Lanier 
Place, N. W.
Waltor A. Jacobs, E08, care of U. 
C. Buroaii of Minos.
Mrs. Herbert H. Knight, M09, Ex. 
1200 Gallatin street, N. W.
Charles T. Lamar, E24, 400 Carroll 
avenue, Takoma Park.
Norman F. Le.Tuno, E20, 2799 Q 
street, NW., Apt. 125.
Samuel S. Levin, E20, 4005 9th 
street, N. W., Apt. 409.
Ilerbort F. Marti, IlG, 1430 Amos 
Place, N. E.
John M. Monstream, E21, 1743 18th 
street, N. W.
William II. Norman, E17, 1717 R 
street, N. W., Apt. 302.
S. F. Pickering, E15, 3909 Kanawha 
street, N. W.
Alex M. Pringle, I17, 027 Lexington 
Placo, N. F.
Theo. 'St. Reppller, 123, Tho West
minster, 17th and Q streot, N. W.
R. II. Runynn, E17, Ex. U. S. Geological Survey.
Josoph Schlmmel, E23, 740 Quebec 
Place, N. W.
C. M. Whitman, E09, 1044 Quebec 
Place, N. W.
Win, H. Soarlght, E17, 58 Veo 
utroot, N. W.
Karl O. Sonnomann, A24, 715 Quobee Placo, N. W1. S. Stark, A19, 710 14th stroot, N.
Carnegies football season is.firmly 
launched upon what all of the loyal 
Carnegie followers hope will be a 
grand and glorious season.
The first game gave evidence of the 
ability of our team to play some ex
cellent football so that our hopes, at 
least, are not mere pipe dreams. And 
we are going to continue to hope that 
our hopes are not in vain, especially 
as October 24 draws near.
Just a little over a week remains 
until this struggle with Pitt takes 
place and it 'behooves all alumni to 
make sure that their reseTvations have 
been taken care of. Not only for 
themselves, but also for their wives 
and kids and all their friends for the 
adage still holds that there is strength 
in numbers and Carnegie is abso
lutely all set to win this game. The 
new Pitt Stadium can take care of 
about 70,000 spectators, and isnt 
there a possibility that 35,000 of these 
on October 24 will be Carnegie root
ers? &
if you-dont have your tickets yet, 
order them from the Athletic Office 
immediately. Just two dollars and a 
half for a reserved seat, and there is 
no limit to the number which any 
alumnus or alumnae may obtain. So 
be sure and order your tickets now 
before it is too late and order them 
for your friends, too. Of course, 
there will be plenty of seats to take 
care of everybody, but the best seats 
will be given out first and who wants 
to sit behind a goal post.
NEW YORK CLAN
Committee Places Carnegie 
Among Best Tech Schools
The Now York Clan held a Stag 
Luncheon at Stewarts Rathskeller, 30 
Park Place, on October 0. The follow
ing men were present: A. J. Edstrom, E. 21; Chas. W. Gibbs, E. 15; 
C. Kenneth Smullen, E. 17; Myron 
Kitaif, E. 20; S'teve Broudy, E. 21; R.
H. Einstein, E. 17; D. H. Reed, E. 23; 
Louis Newman, E. 21; S. A. Smith,
I. 19.
This luncheon was the first of a 
series which are to be held every 
Saturday at 12:30 at the same place 
and all Carnegie men in the vicinity 
are urged to come as often as pos
sible.
The NY. Clan is very anxious to 
obtain the addresses of any new Car
negie Grads who may be in or about 
New York City and will be very glad 
to hear from them. Address commu
nications to S. A. i&mith, 8 West For
tieth street, New York City.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
CARL WINNING
ASSOCIATE EDITORSThe Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology has been named as one of the 
fourteen technology schools, colleges 
and universities in the United States 
offering the best courses in chemical 
engineering according to a report re
ceived at the local institution, from 
the chemical engineering committee 
of the American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers. The report of the com
mittee brings to a close three years of 
study by the committee of which Dr. 
H. CPannelee, of New York, is the 
chairman.
The fourteen institutions listed in 
alphabetical order are: Armour In
stitute, Chicago; Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh; Case iSchool 
of Applied Science, Cleveland; Colum
bia University, New York; Iowa State 
college, Amos; Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology, Cambridge; Ohio 
State University, Columbus; Poly
technic Institute, Brooklyn; Rensse
laer Polytechnic Institute, Troy,
Y.; University of Cincinnati; Univer
sity of Michigan, Ann Arbor; Uni
versity of Minnesota, Minneapolis; 
University of Wisconsin, Madison; 
and  Yale University.
Courses offered in sixty-five insti
tutions were studied exhaustively by 
-the committee before reaching it3 de
cision. According to the report, 
agreement of the committee was 
unanimous in the choice of the insti
tutions listed.
J. M. QOSS
MANAGING EDITOR
Schenley 9285 
Schenley 0122 
.Highland 0077
JOE CRISTOFF.............................
R. L. LE I* IER, Assistant............
M. T. IIQLLINSHIOAI), Assistant
NEWS EDITORS
.Schenloy 4070-.I 
Franklin 0485-W
........Hazel 9310
.Highland 9525-.I
A. V. NERN....
F. A. KOLB___
S. WifllL............
E. TALLMADOI
ALUMNI EDITOR
W. J. KIMMHL.....................................................................................Highland 9127
REPORTERS
M. Nuttall, M. Colion, F. Finn, M. Stump, R. M. Pow, C. Nou, C. Hartung, 
L. Feldstein.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
Highland 5081
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
A. It. Barlow, Robotica. W. Spoors, I). M. Davidson, J. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGERSTUDENT Y" DRIVEFranklin 5547-JOCTOBER 28 AND 29
ADVERTISING MANAGER
Schonloy 9211ARNOLD PERRETON.(Continued From Page One.)
Entertainment or students remain
ing in Pittsburgh during vacation 
periods.
Maintenance of clubs/rooms in Cen
tral Building and Schobel Hall.
Pending sucess of the drive which is 
now being planned, several additions 
will be made to this extensive list of. 
activities.
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
L. BARBROW.................................................................................Highland 4470-R
BU8INE88 AS8I8TANT8
N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerlo, J. P. Strizak, B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, I-I. 
Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbble, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. 
Bernard 1, J. M. Alrgood, A. C. Campbell, R. S. Boyd, IS. Ross.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up._________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomos all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All news items must bo in tlio student 
post olllce before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfilceRoom 5, Industries Building. Oillco hoursDally 12:30-
costly fumbles. In '22, West, the Ne
gro flash, saved the day for W. & J. by 
intercepting a forward pass in the 
last minute of play and running fifty 
yards for a touchdown. The score 
was 7-7. The pillowing year a blocked 
punt gave W. & J. opportunity to 
make a field goal and win 9-7. Last 
year costly fumbles on the Tartans 
part enabled W. & Jto slip over a 
touchdown and a field goal and win 
10-0. What will happen Saturday?
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
MENS STYLE SHOP
CONNORS & MORRISON 
FORBES STREET 
Oakland
CLOTHBS FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
for
YOUR HAIR CUTS
Five Barbers at your 
service.
ON FORBES 
Two Doors Below Craig
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
15 EAST BEAU STREET 
WASHINGTON, PA.Wc Speciali/.c In
STUDENTS 
DRAWING OUTFITS
at special priccs.
Also in
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and Printing.
rIigSPORT SACKWHEYSAufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
Wednesday and Thursday
ZANE GREYS
WILD HORSE MESA 
JACK HOLT BILLIE DOVE
M Icniclcdt'.i a nport 
nullwith trouflorfl a NRRSIS 
uuit. In wooltYRP of roro 
(.nullity and rich pnttorn, 
tins popular II fround suit.
^3950 <md Hi
makes your food do you 
more good.
Note how It relieves 
that stuffy feeling 
after hearty eating.
Sweetens the 
breath, removes Wjffl
food particles ro~ /Iffjtt
from the teeth, (p /
gives new vigor JV
to tired nerves. [HK //J
ComeB to you V 
fresh, clean and 
full-flavored.
Friday and Saturday
MILTON SILLS
in THE KNOCKOUT" 
Next Monday and Tuesday
GLORIA SWANSON
"THE COAST 'OF FOLLY
B. K. ELLIOTT CO
OPTICIANS
NAT LUXENBERG o imo
37 UNION SQUARE 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
Wm, IT. Wagner, BJ12, 8 Crnlar 
1arltwny, Chovy Olase, Md.
Carl C. F. Zobol, ffl'21, lx. 701 ltoolc 
Creek roiul.
Waltor L. Slilvoly, l21, Uraddooic 
Height, Alexandria, Vu.
Mrs. Harold G. Albin, MI7, 8 Mal
vern nvonuo, Chorrydftlo, Va.COLLEGE HALL
Next showing nt 
HOTEL SC I-I EN LEY 
Wodnoedny and Thurndny, 
Novombnr <lth and 0th
p ityln muniQi book mi !Y<u< oii rtiqn
Solicmloy Apartments
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
Sclcctcd Comedie & Short SubjcctH3808 FIFTH AVENUE
BOWLING, POOL AND BILLIARDS
Tobacco Confectionery
Schenley 9291 
P. J. Fitzgibbon Lee Duncan
Read the FILM FORECAST 
Pittsburghs only Movio 
Magazine.
oTWaggie
cTWurph
Beauty^
Parlor
MARCELLING 
SHAMPOOING AND 
MANICURING
WHEN IN WASHINGTON DINE AT THEPhi Beta KappaTtggtir nIfM. nSAIg
MAIN STREET
Table DHote Dinner$1.00CIGARSCANDY
LUNCHONETTE
SODASCHOOL SUPPLIES
AFTER THE GAME DINE AT THEI George Washington HotelWASHINGTON, PA. 
a Dining Room and Coffee Shop
 Tables may be reserved for dinner after
 tlie game.
A. S. GERAUD, Caterer
ARY DDYEY FRNHONBG
RUSSELL T. BOUCH, Proprietor 
3900 FIFTH AVENUE, CORNER BOUQUET STREET 
Phone Schenley 2212 PITTSBURGH, PA.m
aybe you think the profs 
dont give an extra io 
for neatness. They dont write it 
out, but its in their disposition 
just the same. So for required 
readings, lecture notes and theses, 
let us suggest the neat, clear work 
of the good Wahl Pen. Its big 
ink capacity wont fail you; its 
fluent easiness will improve 
your hand and boost your marks; 
its slim, trim shapeliness will 
match that golden key.
g to CLH in silver 
$7 and then some in gold
ifIT ar
tnrMIf.SARM iYDE IFNH AFD
Engagement by appointment 
Sundays and Evenings.
4518 FORBES ST,
!!HOOT MONa
NHPYE1YCCCT8 U K8 
W-JNDD uNPBY
------AT THE------TNhR1PE-P mNHeYPh
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17 th
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12 AND 13
NORMAN KERRY and PATSY RUTH MILLER 
in LORRAINE OF THE LIONS
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14 AND 15
SUN UP
One of the Most Thrilling of all Film Romances with CONRAD 
NAGEL, PAULINE STARKE, LUCILLE LA VERNE. SAM DE GRASS
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16 AND 17
AGNES AYRES
---------with---------
WARNER BAXTER. PHILLIPS SMALLEY, WINIFRED BRYSONHours 8:30-12
After a Carnegie Victory Dance to Carnegie's Own Music, the 
CARNEGIANS
The Kiltie Band will be the Guests of the Management. Make it a point to 
stay over and enjoy this treat. Car and train service back to Carnegie Tech 
late at night.
THE AWFUL TRUTHWhoopee!
Im pledged to tho 
Regular Guys 
Holly
TihcEvcrskarp Kid, E.S.W.
(Meaning Eminent 
Supreme Writer) 
at any Evcrsharp and 
Wahl Pen counter
ADDED ATTRACTION ALL WEEK
MINNA-LILLIAN-HILDA TRIO
Lovely Clever Girls Presenting Popular Musical Act. 
COMEDIES NEWS REELS NOVELTY FILMS
G. C. Hallam, 14, ManagerJ. C. Hallam, 23
Plenty of Parking Space.
ALUMNI PAGE
00010200020201000101000202010002025301010200020102010102000102000200015300020002010953480200000102
00020200010100015300020002010001190002000201010102010201000101000200010248234802010200020201020002

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
CHANGES MADE IN 
MANY GRID RULES
TICKETS NOW ON SALE 
FOR WASH-JEFF GAA\EPLEBES DEFEAT 
WESTINGHOUSEGOOD TIME MADE 
IN C. C. TRYOUTS
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTSSP -RY FDN1e aBHYYP
J. A. C. FOLLERo
w. & J.
W. & J........20Geneva.............12
W. & J........72Marietta.......... 0
W. & J........40Wavnesburg.. 6
PITT
Pitt................28W. & L.......... 0
Pitt................ 9Lafayette ...20
Pitt...............15W. Virginia.. 7
DREXEL
Drexel............ 0Georgetown 25
Drexel............ 0Lehigh ........38
NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame. .41Baylor ........ 0
Notre Dame.. 69Lombard ... 0
Notre Dame. .13-Beloit ..........3
ST. LOUIS
St. Louis.......0Iowa .............41
LEHIGH
Lehigh____... 7Gettsburg .. 7
Lehigh............38Drexal .........0
? ? * -> * ? * * * * * * ? * *
Tickets Cor the W. & J. game at 
Washington, Pa., next Saturday are 
on sale now at tho Graduate Mana
gers offlco in tho Gym. Tho follow
ing prices will prevail: Student Ath
letic Book and ?0.75 will admit all 
students to tho Carnogio cheering 
section; reserved seats will cost $2.50; 
general admission will bo $2.00.
As has been stated before, tho Penn
sylvania Railroad will run throo spe
cial trains to Washington in addition 
to it's regular train. The fare Is $1.16 
round trip on the specials or on tho 
regular train. Tickets may bo bought 
at the Graduate Manager's office or at 
the Union on Fourth avenue stations. 
No tickets will be sold on the train.
Clarence Ovorend, Graduate Man
ager, made a trip to Washington last 
week to confer with Henry Hood, 
Graduate Manager of Athletics at W.
& J., cohcerning tho seats to bo
ulotted to the Carnegie rooters, and 
the result is that tho Plaid represen
tation will be taken care of in much 
better shape than was formerly the 
case. Tho entire grandstand on tho 
Park avenue side of the Held is to bo 
reserved for Carnogle Tech students 
and alumni, except a small section 
which W. & J. has occupied for years.
In order to facilitate tho handling 
of tho largo crowd expected, tho Wash
ington Police force will be supple
mented by fifty members of tho Pitts
burgh Police and several of tho Penn
sylvania State Constabulary. The W. 
it J. authorities havo arranged that 
tho game will bo conducted In a man
ner similar to thoso hold at Carnogio 
Bowl and Forbos Field, which means 
that tho spectators will at all tlmos bo 
kopt in order and off of tho Hold,
Tho train schodulo will bo posted 
ou tho Campus at somo time during 
the wook.
New Laws Apply to Blocked 
Kicks, Selecting of Goals 
and Penalties
Score of 31-0 is Piled Up ByStrong Freshman Ag
gregation
New Material is Developing 
RapidlyPlebe Team 
Showing Speed
TWO UNDEFEATED TEAMS 
Now that the Scotch has been uncorked for Thiel and Mt. 
St. Marys has been Tartanized (appologies to Scoboll Hall), we
are again confronted with the annual Wash-Jeff clash. For four
years a jinx has been following the Plaid warriors on their trips to 
W. & J. and it now looks like he has been shaken off at last. This 
seasons team is the best, and most aggressive aggregation which 
has willed itself to lick the Presidents, that Carnegie has had for 
many years. Even the most ardent W. & J. supporters are willing 
to concede that the Tartans have outplayed them in two of the past 
four contests, and no Plaid enthusiast who saw that 7-7 tie game 
of 1922 will ever quite forget how West, that black diamond of the 
first water, picked the oval out of the air and tore forty yards for 
the touchdown that robbed Carnegie of a victory. These incidents
and a few more, constitute the reasons for the intense rivalry be
tween the two schools.
We're going to win this yearso be on hand. It will be the 
greatest game that the Tri-State district has seen for many years.
The following is a record of games played between W. & J. 
and Carnegie:
1906W. & J................................35Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1907W. & J................................26Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1908W. & J................................30 Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1910w. & J............................... 9Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1912W. & J................................52Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1919W. & J................................20Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1920W. & J............................... O Carnegie Tech............................. 6
1921W. & J................................14Carnegie Tech............................. 0
1922W. & J................................ 7Carnegie Tech............................. 7
1923W. & J............................... 9Carnegie Tech............................. 7
1924W. & J................................10Carnegie Tech............................. 0
The following important changes 
have been made in football rules 
since last season:
Acting on a suggestion from tho 
Association of Coaches tho National 
Committee on football legislation 
made a change in the rules involving 
blocked kicks. This alteration pro
vides that if the ball does not cross 
the line of scrimmage it shall belong 
to tho side recovering the ball. It 
however, the kicking side recovers 
tho ball it shall count a down. Last 
year if a blocked kick was recovered 
by the kickers side it went as a first 
down. All partially, blocked kicks 
which cross the line of scrimmage 
will bo treated as if tho ball had not 
been touched.
Another rule covoring appearance 
of physicians and trainers on the field 
during play provides that such shall 
report to 'the referee, just as an in
coming player would be required to 
report, without seeking preliminary 
permission to enter the field. Here
tofore a* doctor had to attract the at
tention of an official to get permission 
to enter tlio field or was summoned 
by an official.
This yoar the captain of the team 
winning the toss may chooso to rocolvo or kick In addition to selecting 
the goal which ho will defend.
The rule on clipping last senson 
called for a loss of 15 yards, either 
from the spot where tho ball was put 
In play or from tho spot of tho foul, 
at the option of the offended sklo. A 
change provides a penalty of 25 yards, 
to bo onforcod from tho spot where 
tho foul occurred.
As far back as tho memory of 
oldosl. football fans, if a foul was 
committed by tho side, which did not 
put tho ball In play, tho scrimmage 
after a distance penalty was counted 
as first down with ton yards to gain. 
An Important oiiango in this is tho 
abolition of first down on an offsldo 
penalty unions the penalty gives tho 
offensive team tho ball beyond tlio 
point to bo gained.
Bringing back ono of tho prottlost 
plays of tho game, tho return ol tho 
klckolY, the 11)25 rule provides for 
tho restoration of the klokoff to tlio 
klolterii 40 yard lino Instead of midHold, but no provision Is made for a 
loo.
The Plebe team showed their ability 
by taking the strong Westinghouse 
team into camp Saturday to the tune 
of 31-0. The outcome of the game 
was never in doubt, but it can not 
be said that the Plebes had it all 
their way. The Westinghouse gridders put up a stiff battle but the su
perior work of the Freshmen was too 
much for them. The outstanding fea
ture of the game was the team-work 
of Harpster and Limeric. They alter
nated at carrying the ball and time 
and again skirted the ends for long 
gains. Their passing work was equal
ly well executed, they completing sev
eral passes that resulted in long 
gains. Harpster also made a perfect 
field goal from the thirty-five yard 
line. The consistant plunging of 
Letzler helped a great deal when they 
needed a few yards to make a first 
down. The work of the line, espe
cially Meilziner and Lovewell, was a 
big factor in the victory for time and 
again they turned back the Westing
house attack, often for big losses. A 
peculiar thing about the score was 
that every mode of football scoring 
was used in the game. They made 
three points from a field goal, two 
points from a safety, twenty-four from 
touchdowns and two from points after 
touchdown.
The lineup:
Carnegie31. Westinghouse0.
English ..............L. E............ Kallicker
Milffner ...........L. T................. Yeager
Lovewell ......L. G............... Nelson
Stauffer ................C.................. Shenro
Young ...............R. G............. Nigerege
Morrow ............R. T................. Mases
Rankin................R. E.................. Slater
Harpster ..............Q................... Collier
Llmrlc ..............L. II.............. Conable
Gielfer ..............R. H................ Karels
Letzelded ........,..F.................. Tuttle
Score by quarters:
CarnOgle ...................11 7 13 031
SubstitutionsBricker for Nelson, 
Sweet for English, Kusman for Ran
kin, Kirssatriclc for Mapess. Touch
downsHarpster 2, Letzelder, Limric 2. Goals from touchdownsHarp
ster 3. Missed goals from touch
downsI-Iarpster. Goals from field 
Harpster. SafetyConablo. Referee 
Grose. Umpire, Cavinaugh. Lines
manHawkins.
The first cross country tryouts of 
the season were .held last Friday after
noon on the Schenley Park course. 
Both the first year men and the var
sity had a chance to show their stuff, 
and Coach Guy Halferty seemed very 
much pleased with the results. Al
though the runners worked against 
heavy handicaps of weather, and cold, 
Coach Halferty stated that the time 
for the first three miles equalled that 
made by Dykeman, ex-Carnegie star, 
and Corbett, the holder of the course 
record, in the Pitt-Carnegie race of 
last year.
Weather conditions for the tryouts 
were the worst possible to hold any
thing except a swimming meet. The 
track was slow and muddy, the wind 
cold, and the rain unusually damp. 
The Plebes were given the first 
chance to perform, and of ten starters 
on the three mile course, Haven fin
ished first with a time of 16:26, Allison second 16:32 4/5, Fuller third 
17:15 2-5, Campbell fourth 17:22 1/5, 
and Kinney fifth 17:47 2/5. All the 
Tunners finished under twenty min
utes, which satisfied Coach Halferty, 
considering the existing conditions.
Thirteen varsity men paced five 
hard miles under Captain Pecks lead
ership and came in fresh as daisies 
as well as clipping minutes off the 
time that everyone expected them to 
make. Captain Peck headed the run
ners with a time of 30:44 seconds. 
Sallcin came in second with 30:51, 
closely followed by Himes and Mc
Nair who were nip and tuck for the 
last mile.
The cross country aggregation has 
at last obtained its long desired wish; 
the Athletic Association is sending 
them to Geneva for a meet on Novem
ber 21.
The team has been attempting to 
negotiate this trip for some time and 
It is at last a reality. Geneva boasts a 
good bunch of long distance men who 
rip over the hills and dales at an unGIRLS ATHLETIC ASSN.
TO HOLD HIKE OCT. 14
The Womens Athletic Association 
is holding a hike for the Big and 
'Little sisters on Wednesday, Octo
ber the 14th; at 4:30. Each year the 
Y. W. C. A. appoints girls from the 
upper classes to play Big Sister to 
members of the incoming Freshman 
class. Each Senior and Junior has 
one or two Freshman Little sisters 
to advise during their first year at 
Carnegie. In this way it is Hoped to 
get the new girls interested in athle
tics and to show them some o the 
real Carnegie spirit.
Every girl in both colleges is needed. 
Meet in front of the Margaret Morri
son building at 4:30. Bring a tin cup 
along for refreshments. . Be prepared 
to eat supper in the woods and to have 
a good time. One athletic point will 
be awarded.
Total212 Total
TICKETS FOR THE PITT GAME
Beginning yesterday, the Graduate Managers ofilco in tho New Gym is 
to remain open four nights a week until after tho game with Pitt. Seats in 
the Carnegie cheering section may be had by presenting your Student Ath
letic Book and fifty cents at the afore-mentioned ofilce. Reserved seats will 
cost $2.50 and are to go on public sale next Monday morning, October 19. 
If good seats are desired, reservations must bo made Immediately through 
Graduate Manager Clarence Overend, before the public sale opens. This 
applies to students who may desire reserved seats, and alumni and friends of 
the institution. There will be no general admission tickets issued for this 
game. When applying for reservations, either write or call personally, do 
not telephone.
CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM SHOWING PROGRESS
Prospects which seemed dim at tho start of tho season are now taking a 
very definite and pleasing shape. Two now men, Salkin and McNair, have 
been doing some remarkable running lately. Both were' In school last yoar 
but did not come out. for tho team. Undoubtedly tlve.ro are more men of 
ability registered in Carnegie than at present constitute the lilll and dale 
squad. It is not too late to make a bid for either tho varsity or fre'sfiman 
teams. Report tonight to the dressing room In tho Gym.
SHILLING PREPARING
FOR INITIAL NUMBER
(Continued From Page One.) 
Vina Lee Kahlef is editor, is working 
very hard to make the magazine an 
ideal literary representative of Car
negie. With an array of experienced 
contributors and promising new 
workers, the staff intends to instill 
new life in the magazine. The mem
bers welcome any suggestions and 
urge all who are literarily inclined to 
submit their manuscripts. They are 
looking forward to a successful year, 
and though the support of the student 
body, hope for a wider circulation
THE PLEBE GRIDDERS
The Tartan yearlings certainly staged an oxcollont performance for thoso 
who braved the weather last Saturday and were present to see tho prelim
inary contest. Straight football was used almost entirely, and except for ono 
or two bits of straggly playing, the plebes co-ordinated vory well. If tlio 
W. & J. freshmen handle the ball as loosely as they did last week against 
California Normal, Coach Andersons moil will havo little trouble In disposing 
of them In the coming battle.
MT. ST. MARYS Myers ...................L. T................... Allen
IS DEFEATED IN Cowan ..................L. G................ Snyder
EASY FASHION Manly ...................C.................. Martin
  Cass .....................R. G.............. Buckloy
(Continued From Page Ono.) Yoder ...................It. 'I'............ Campbell
Coach Steffan and Carnogio Tech faKrJstof ..............R, E................... Russo
mous in tho football world, proved Bastian ...............Q................... Cimpl
spectacular only once. This was in Donohoo ...........L. H............... Gollbat
the first quarter and resulted in a Wortonborg ....It. II................. Dolan
touchdown by Beodo. However, tho Boodo (C).......... F .(C) Abbatlcchlo
St. Mary toam watched for this play Score by poriods:
during the remainder of tho game and Carnogle .14 7 (! 7 -34
succeeded in breaking up-the spinner Mt. St. Marys. 0 0 0 0 0
on several occasions. Substitutions: Toch  MoCloland
A groat improvement was soen In for Worlonborgor, Sobastian for Donthe Carnegie team, far surpassing the (>hoc\ Wortonborgor for McClelland, 
showing made-against Thiol. Moro Donohoe for Sobastlon, Marshall for 
teamwork was demonstrated and a Cowan, S'obastlan for Bastian, Cooper 
smoother working machine was nofor Myers, Vogt for ICiistof, Harmon 
ticed., The interference was vory for Wortonborgor, Christoff for Hondo, 
good. Swallo for Cooper, Neff for Yoder;
The line Is due much pralso for tho Mt. St. MarysMcNorny for Cimpl, 
manner In which the opponents plays Dooly for Allen, Manganollo for Collwere stopped. Several of thd St. bat,- Domond for Martin, LDW so for 
Mary punts wore blocked by tho CarOBrien, Kurtz for Bucklley, Martin 
negle forwards. for Desmond, Cimpl for McNorny,
Numerous Carnegie substitution*) Graham for Dooly. Touchdowns- 
wore made during the gamo. Boodo 2, Bastian 2, Donohoo, Trios
Tho lineup: for pointBastian 3, Harmon. RofCarnogle Toch34. Mt. St. Mary0 erooJ. P, Eagan, DUquesno; umpire, 
Goodwin ...........L. E............. Klsloslcl H. J. Blum; linesmanCal Bolster.
Many people are wise on radio matten*, yet do not know why their foun
tain pen leaks," or that they can 
purchase one that will give entire 
satisfaction at the Jenkins Aroade 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
Bellefield Tailoring 
and Cleaning Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
The Bellefield Tailors will payspecial attention to the stu
dents work.
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Bosorve System
The Oakland Bank
Oapital - - - 0,000.00 
Surplus - - - $30,0,000.00 
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
^panny pace, so the meet should bring 
out some worth while running.
The meet with Pitt on the day. of 
the Pitt-Tech game starts off the sea
son for Cros3 Country. Pitt has its 
usual strong team, and although not 
supported by Corbett, it must be re
membered that Carnegie no longer has 
Dykeman or Bright. However, with 
the showing that the Plaid runners 
made at the tryouts, honors should 
be fairly evenly divided.
PATRONIZE OUR, ADVERTISERSJ. Chivers Restaurant
Across the Street from the 
Pennsylvania Station 
Eat your lunch here before you 
leave.
372 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STS. 
Boglnnorn Monday and Friday 
Evening. Advnnoed, Thurodny 
and Saturdny Evonlngo. Private 
loooono by appointment.
Sohenley 3173.
Phone Mayflower 0883.
Everybodys Doing ItWhat? Renting a "tux or drooo suit for that prom or 
fratornity affair. Got In tho swim. It oheaper, Juut an 
convenient and an satisfactory an owning your own. Wo 
can fit you perfectlyin a nmartly otylod, correctly tai
lored outfit. Everybody's doing It.
Why not YOU?
Hours 8:30-5:30.NHPYE1Y AYBR f1-Y
------AT------TNhRCKY&&
The Kollege Klubb
Will Entertain at the
mYHEY TNhR1PE-P n-YD
------with the------
vTian KIWW ftfIs
Dancing till Midnight Assessment $2.00
University Restaurant
Excellent Food 
Reasonable Prices 
FIRST CLASS SERVICE 
Open Day and Night 
4605 FORBES STREET
oqn-.
M
Now, Phidoas Krinkle, early in 
hla collogo course, would havo 
no frills, either as regards schol
arship and studios, or equip
ment. Henco, we found him 
(that is, somo one did) buying 
a pen for $1.37  today only 
 and putting tho difference 
between that and the price of a 
Parker Duofold in books 
good books, too, let it be un
derstood. Arid passing charita
bly over somo profane lapses, 
he got along with it till gradu
ation, and then some. Were 
liberalit would make a mark 
whenyoupressed it, frequently. 
But Krinkle, with this pennygrasping trait, wont bankrupt 
three years after graduation. 
And ho never did amount to 
much after.
Jack Free,on theother hand, 
had an eye to quality, boauty, 
andoh youquality.His sec
ond weolc In college found him 
with a Parkor Duofold. Makati 
no difference If he did steal It 
ho knew what nort to steal, and 
tho victim bought another 
Parkor, anyway. Well, to coin a 
phrase, that was Just like Jack, 
and ho graduated and oignod 
bln firiit chock with a flourish 
and a Parkor. And, duo,It munt 
beadmittod in fairness by all, 
to this belief and insistence on 
quality tit all costs, ho went 
stony broke in two years.
So there really was little ad
vantage in the Parkor Duofold 
over tho orphan-pen, except 
having something decent to 
write with during the period 
mentioned.
WHEN Comp. Lit. and Physics 3-B are crowd
ing for attention; when Ive just received an 
over-cut notice from the Dean; when my allow
ance is a month off and the stub of my check
book confesses a balance of $9.32, give me a 
pipe and Prince Albert. I want to be hqppy!
Troubles a bubble, they say. And I can 
prove it . . . with my jimmy-pipe and P. A. 
Just never was a friend like Prince Albert. Cool 
and sweet and soothing, P. A.s true-blue smoke 
zooms up the stem, knocking troubles for a row 
of test-tubes.
Never a tongue-bite or throat-parch. Just 
cool contentment, no matter how hard you hit 
it up. Give me a grate fire to chase the chill of 
winter nights, an easy chair and my jimmy-pipe 
packed with P. A. Nearby, a tidy red tin for 
frequent refills. 1 know, Brother, I know!
r PAIRS of PURE (PI 
J SILK HOSIERY-P1
($10.00 Value)
A few minutes time and very lit
tle effortjust to help us adver
tise our Thread Silk Hosiery, 
and we make you the above of
fer. Very simple plan. Do your 
friends a good turn by introduc
ing the Dellte plan to them. 
Write today for details of the 
plan that saves money on guar
anteed Pure Thread Silk Full 
Fashioned Hose.
DELITE SALES CO.
Miss Gladys Reynolds 
Practice House, Woodlawn Ave.
307 Standard Life Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
P. A. is sold everywhere in 
tidy red tins, pound and halfpound tin humidors, and 
pound crystal-glass humidors 
with spongc-moistener top. 
And always with every bit of 
bile and parch removed by the 
Prince Albert process.
ARY aD1BoYhNP -RY NOlyh b 
iS-iUc/A.
No well dressed college man is 
without one. Its the original, 
correct slicker and theres noth
ing as smart or sensible for 
rough weather and chilly days. 
Made of famous yellow water
proof oiled fabric. Has allround strap on collar and elas
tic at wrist-bands.
Clasp-closing style 
Button-clos ing style 
Stamp the correct name in your 
memory, and buy no other. 
The Standard Student is 
made only by the Standard 
Oiled Clothing Co., N. Y. C.
Slip one on at
Start Y our Busi
ness Career Now
A checking account with till ironk bank Ives you  certain pnmtlga Hint 1 <IVftnliiKoa, in tulijlUon It provides a knowledge "f financial prppedaro that will nerve you in good it to (1 In tho conduct >f your buslneM and perianal affairs.
Ono Ot th outstanding ohnriiclurIhIIch of thin Institution In tho per
sonal Interest of Mellon ofHeorn in 
thd financial welfare ot iloponltors.
Capital and 'Surplua 
$13,500,000.00Look at the U. S. revenue 
stamp  there arc TWO full 
ounces in every tin.no other tobacco is like it!
ALL GOOD DEALERS
 1925, B. J. Reynolds Tob&cea Conptnj. Wlnitoa-Silem. N. C.
C Fgitu iAngIAta C

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1925
Committee Studies 
Graduate Condititions
CAN A MAN HAVE A CAREER AND MARRY?Questionnaires Sent to Grads 
Bring Results
com/
No. Emphatically not. Tho fairer sex, various author
ities disagree, may or may not successfully cope with a 
career wliilo sustaining the duties of a loving wife. Men, 
however, havo never been studied from this angle.
Swell noglect is not surprising. The college girl is given 
a few of the realists to read and shortly thereafter decides 
that she lias a career in store for her. Tho exact nature 
of tliis career is usually quite vague and her imagination 
paints but a very hazy picture. Yot the aspiration is 
attractive because of its color and, like her now froclt, is 
different. With a pout for convention she takes to Binolcing clgarots and aftor a few minor blasphemies, settles 
down to a comfortable married life.
A few, but thoso aro happily small in numbor, discover 
what vapid beings men really aro, and ratlior than marry
ing, work out an arid oxlsLonco of thoir own. However, 
this discussion concerns only those who And time for both 
careers and husbands.
Tho male of tho species, in such relations, is invariably 
honpookod. IIo may bo a mongro individual bowing de
ferentially to his wifes wishes, or a big Indulgent he-man 
whoi smiles at his wife's capers. But tills ls simply ad
justed. Just as a damsol ilrst sots a snare for an un
suspecting man, so she can easily continue and oxtract 
from her mate whatever her little heart may desire. Of 
course, he has projudioos which must he rospoctod, hut 
froo of thoso, a wife has unrostrictod nmplltudo for ca
price. So wo say, any woman who employs sulllciont 
discretion In selecting a husband, may have a career.
Man, however, cannot enjoy this compensating foaturo. 
To begin with, he does not choose the woman ho marries 
by any series of logical observations, nor by an instlnctlvo 
understanding. A man yields only upon feeling superior 
and 110 woman can bo bamboo/,led into a retiring position 
by a persistent youth. A girl may love a man dearly but 
ho will never rate her vory highly if ho has gainod her 
by aggressive warfare. Bo in tho vory beginning, tho 
man is at a disadvantage with liis career since his wife 
is tho stronger of tlio two.
And then, what is a career? Essentially, tho pursuit of 
desire rather than duty. The individual who graduates in 
engineering and tlion becomes an architect because it ap
peals to him, is following a career. Under our standards 
of living he cannot be a success because his career is allenfolding and leaves no time to bo diverted by the simple 
or extravagant pleasures of a multitude which must seek 
recreation after the days work.
He has little time for his wife and since he seems to be 
enjoying himself withal, the neighbors nod and whisper. 
Furthermore, his work is creative without being produc
tive. He does not increase the total good of the world. 
He sells no Fords, he dictates no letters nor answers 
phone calls. No, quite unfairly, he calls his genius to 
work and apparently reaps enjoyment as well as financial 
gain from his vocation. This is sinful, and the man with 
the career sits apart.
His wife gains glory sometimes; more ofen pain. After 
all, who is she, poor little insignificant being? She be
gins with visions of a devastating husband, who by spe
cial dispensation is permitted to let his hair grow long, 
and instead he gets bald and growls when his study is in
terrupted.
Tho strong woman, of course, soon trains her husband, 
and shortly displays an uninteresting puppet, to her circle. 
Socially ho may bo a groat man, but it is a case of mis
placed homage.
So wo reiterate, a career and a wli'o dont, mix. And 
after all, why bother with a career any way?
Recently 125 well-known institutions 
of learning conducted an extensive 
survey of tho present work of their 
engineer graduates by sending out 
questionnaires to each. The purpose 
of the questionnaire was to determine 
the relation between the College 
course taken at school and the work 
the graduate is now engaged1 in. 
Other questions were asked to deter
mine what the graduate engineer 
thought of his icollege -course after he 
had some practical experience.
Tho Carnegie Institute of Technology 
was one of the participants of this 
survey. Tho committee was composed 
of Profs. B. C. Dennison of the Elec
trical Engineering Department; H. A. 
Thomas of tho Department of iGivll 
Engineering; S. B. Ely of the Com
mercial Engineering Dopartment, and 
It. B. Leighou and It. M. DawBon of 
tho Departments of Industries and 
General StudleB, respectively. A list 
of questions was Bent to l.OOO former 
onginoerlug students of Carnegie. 
Tech. These students wore classified 
as follows:
Group A11)08-1020 graduates
Group B1022-11)2-1 gradmatos.
Cramp Cnon-graduato.
Many Interesting facts developod 
from tho answers; sent in to the com
mittee. It was found that 68 per cent 
of tho men liavo j entered tho profes
sional field of work, 20 per cent aro 
In commercial work, and II per cent 
aro In tho industrial lino.. Most of 
thoso graduates hold positions which 
aro of tho primarily exocutlvo and 
technical nature.
Tho groator number of tho first 
group1 thought that more business and 
liberal arts 'courses should havo been 
in their curriculum of school work; 
in contrast, loss than one-tenth of the 
more recent graduates were of that 
opinion, which indicates that advance
ment has been made by adding more 
business and liberal arts subjects to 
the engineering courses.
Most of the graduates thought that 
the major subjects of their 'college 
courses were of the greatest value in 
subsequent work, with mathematics 
and the fundamental sciences ranking 
pext in importance.
The graduates initiative and leader
ship were the two greatest factors in 
landing them a position after gradua
tion, while their specific training, 
physique, appearance and scholastic 
record were of minor importance. In 
the question referring to the manner 
and extent to which college exper
iences have proven of value, it was 
found that discipline in methods of 
thinking and knowledge of fundament
al principals ranked above all; asso
ciations and' friendship, college life, 
direct preparation for engineering 
craftsmanship and inspiration and 
guidance from the faculty followed. 
A bit of sarcasm was reflected when 
nine former students answered that 
they had not received any inspira
tion or guidance from the faculty.
The graduates felt that the college 
courses had promoted tlielr personal 
qualities of integrity, dependability, 
accuracy and thoroughness to a great 
extent., while 'A. promoted and devel
opod dlllgenoo, initiative, originality 
and leadership to a lessor degree. A 
study of the flguros rocolved' relative 
to (ho salaries of the engineering 
graduates shows that the average man 
starts at $1,000 a year, at the end of
S
TUDENTS find the New Remington Portable indis
pensable in writing themes, compiling notes, and 
in all general correspondence. It saves your time, for 
its use makes you a speedy typist before you know it.
It is strong and durablewill last for years and 
years. It is the lightest and most compact Portable 
with 4-row standard keyboard.
Call and let us show you the many advanced fea
tures of this New Remington Portable. Let us explain 
to you our easy payment plan.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER CO.
102 SIXTH STREET 
. PITTSBURGH, PA.
five years receives $2,600, at the end 
of ten years is getting $4,806, and at 
the end of fifteen years is malting 
over $7,000 a year. That fact that 
non-graduates salaries follow the 
same icurve for tho first five years, 
'but at the end of fifteen years are receoiving only a little over $4,000, indi
cates the value of carrying tiie engi
neering course to completion.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Lifetime
Write itdont sing,
The chances are that youll do a better job with 
a Lifetime pen. And youll have the satisfac
tion of knowing, when you write to her, that 
you are working with the niftiest" instrument 
procurable. Of green, jade-green radite, a hand2, some and indestructible material, is the pen
 you'll love to hold. Its nib is guaranteed for a
lifetime. But what is more important, it is an in
fallible performer. At better stores everywhere.
Price, $8.75 Students special, $7.50 Others lower 
Lifetime Titan oversize pencil to match, $4.25 
Sheaffcr Skripsuccessor to inkmakes all pens write better
PENS - PENCILS  SKRIP
W. A SHEAFFER PEN C01.PANYFORT NADISOH, IOWA
aro associated with national organizalions, and 
that tho numbor is now to bo increased to four
teen. For a college to establish itsol.lI so quickly 
in fraternity circles speaks well ol: tho quality ol! 
its men, and there seems to bo little immediate 
danger ol deterioration.
The success of the new national gives added 
incentive to the remaining locals. For them
selves they have strengthened the ties already 
formed and now have something higher to main
tain. Their pledges have a greater goal for 
which to strive. Just as the fraternity picks its 
men with care, so the nationals with greater cau
tion select their chapters. AVlien a local can im
press an old and strong fraternal organization 
sufficiently, to be given a charter, it must be ex
ceptional. Sigma Epsilon Phi has reached the 
goal. Congratulations!
For Sale by SIMS DRUG COMPANY
FORBES AND MURRAY AVES., SQUIRREL HILL
40c and 50c Meals
ON MAIN STREET 
WASHINGTON, PA.C. M. STAUFT, 3901 Forbes St
10EDITORIAL FimI
LETS ATTEND CHAPEL
The '.first chapel service was held Jasfc Thurs
day. There was ample room, for the audience in 
the Little Theater. Deans, members of the fac
ulty, and a few students comprised the group m 
attendance. Bali! the students came in too late 
to hear tlio musical selection. Moreover it is 
probable that seventy-iivo per cent came to hear 
tlio speaker and the rest came either as a duty 
to be performed or by mistake. There were few 
Freshmen visible.
It is possible that chapel has not been properly 
called to the attention of the Freshmen and the 
new students. The chapel service is held every 
Thursday at 12:50 in the Little Theater. There is 
nothing compulsory about it. Interest in it is 
your card of admission. Carnegie is not a de
nominational schbpl. Its chapel services are 
planned to please as many persons as possible. 
The speakers come from the leading churches of 
every denomination in Pittsburgh and are vitally 
interested in students. They do not come to ha
rangue. In a twenty-minute address they each 
hope to give us a definite message from their 
church.
But the finest thing that we may ALL derive 
from attendance at chapel is a spirit of commu
nion with each other. It is contagious. The only 
emotion comparable to it is football enthusiasm. 
Just as a song to tho music of the band brings 
us all together, so a great hymn to tho music of 
the organ uplift's us and makes us feel our unity 
in worshipping the Creator, Lord, or whatever we 
may happen to call our God.
Chapol is a tradition to be upheld as well as 
any other. It cannot be supported by a small 
group. It needs tho interest of the whole school. 
It has beenestablished for .the whole. Let us all 
take part.
ABOUT PARKING
God and Mr. Orbin never rest. Nine hundred 
and .fifty! street-feet ol! No Parking territory 
has been sucossfully established and still we comjilain.
Driven from their old roosts, many of our 
ilivvor friends havo found parking space on the 
hill to the south ol' Langley Lab and on tlio ten
tative grassland beside the Carpenter Shop.
Admittedly, no attempt to beautify thoso eye
sores lias been madethey really seem to bo 
quite oil! the campusbut these auto clusters, a 
typo ol! beauty peculiar to our mechanical ago, do 
not blend into tho sehemo ol! natural settings 
planned for our buildings by the landscape gar
deners.
Given a little encouragement, God might try 
to grow a little grass on thoso barren spots. God 
and Mr. Orbin ought to got together on tho propo
sition. Meanwhile, Motorists, Please!"
A MODERN PARNASSUS
With neither headlines to announce its ap
proach, nor crowds to cheer for the participating 
artists, the Twenty-fourth International Exhibi 
lion of Painting will open tomorrow at Carnogio 
Institute, at which time live hundred paintings of 
contemporary artists of thirteen nations will bo 
exhibited. .And during the next two months a 
groat majority ol! good Carnegie folk will con
tinue to wrestle with Math, and endlessly intone 
Ibsen, quite oblivious of, or disinterested in this 
important showing of tho finest modern art.
To the average American college student, suoh 
an exhibition is labeled high-brow, something 
for tho artistic intelligensia only, and quite be
yond the scope of the campus collegians.  Who 
aro these long-haired intellectuals, he asks, 
 that they should invite us to bask in the glory 
of modern art? Keep them aloof, and eventually 
they will become tangled up with their artistia 
jargon, and may then be buried.
An American student, enjoying study in Con
tinental Europe, writes back that there can be no 
doubting of Americas complete economic and in
dustrial independence of the Old World, but in 
matters which rank high in the realm of imagina
tion thinking and doing, the continent still reigns 
supreme. Undoubtedly this is true.1- The educat
ed classes in Europe are artists by nature and 
occupation. This doesnt mean that every 
French cab driver continuously hums airs from 
the operas, or prefers spending a day in the 
Louvre to a fat tip or a good beer. But it docs 
mean that the college class of people in Europe, 
the intellectual group, are interested amateurs in 
tho arts; and as a result, the corner on spiritual 
advance remains in the old world.
Noxv. to being great, is the capacity for appre
ciating greatness; a lively and appreciative in
terest in the arts loads to inner light and advance
ment. Tho International Exhibit is probably the 
most important and exceptional artistic event, 
that Pittsburgh may call her own. What could 
be more fitting than that wo at Carnegie, who aro 
supposed to be receiving that perfect sense of 
values should ehooso this exhibit as our hobby 
and become constant attendants at the Carnegie 
[Institute during the next two months.
CONGRATULATIONS
This week, with suitable ceremonies. Sigma Ep
silon Phi will be installed as Sigma Phi Epsilon, 
a national fraternity. For Carnegie this means 
a gratification tribute to a group of its men, and 
in acknowledgement of their success they de
serve congratulations.
To the members of this fraternity it signifies 
the attainment, of a great ambition, the realiza
tion of the hope of every local from the day of 
its origin. A national charter is the goal for 
which they have worked and built, and now at 
the time of triumph it is with pride that the col
lege felicitates them.
At present thirteen fraternities on the campus
