For program corrections see the EDUCOM EVENTS section on page 4 
For a complete listing of Hospitality Suites, see page 4
The Tartan
Special IssueCarnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 12,1986
Carnegie Mellon Inaugurates Andrew Network
Cyert Realizes a 
Dream with Network
The following is a transcript of the 
speech presented by Dr. Richard 
Cyert, President of Carnegie Mellon 
University at the inauguration of the 
Andrew Network.
The opening today of the Carnegie 
Mellon campus network is the culminatnio 
of a dream that I have held for six years. 
With the advent of mcrocomputers, I 
envisaged a situation in which each student, 
each faculty member, and most staff 
membershad access to a computer system 
that would be connected together. I saw 
such a system as an alternative to time 
sharing. It was obvious to me after many 
years of living with a time-sharing system 
that it was not the right system for a 
university. Time-sharing works only with 
restrictions on the nilmber of users. It was 
also clear that we needed a commercialCMU students work on IBM PC-RT WorkstationsEDUCOM Announces New Software Initiative
IBM's Lucente 
Praises Cooperation
The following is a transcript of the 
speech given by Carnegie Mellon 
Trustee Edward Lucente at the 
inauguration of the Andrew 
Network.
My ties with Carnegie Mellon are many.
I'm IBM's campus representative. I'm 
honored to be a trustee, and I'm an 
alumnus.
So, this inauguration -- and the 
achievemnts it represents  has special 
meaning for me.
Our relationship with Carnegie Mellon is 
an outstanding example of collaboration 
between business and the academic 
community.
Since 1980, IBM has entered into more 
than 1,800 research* agreements with nearly 
350 universities around the world.
And weve invested nearly $225 million 
continued on page 2
PRINCETON, New Jersey - EDUCOM 
has created a software Initiative to address 
the special problems colleges and 
universities face in the development, 
distribution, and use of software.
"Our goal, " Steven Gilbert, director of 
the EDUCOM Software Initiative, "is to 
motivate academic and commercial 
developers to create new and bettwe 
software and find ways to deliver that 
software efficiently. That includes creating 
special terms and pricing structures, if need 
be, that are mutually acceptable to the 
academic community and commercial 
software producers. Ideally, we want every 
student and university to have access to 
academic software as a full complement to 
reading, lectures, and discussion."
The EDUCOM Software Initiative is 
pursuing issues that concern every college, 
university, software producer, and author. 
For instance:
1. How can software producers, 
including commercial, independent, 
university, and other non-commercial 
software authors, learn more about the 
specialized needs of the higher education 
market?
2. How can commercial software be 
made accessible to students and faculty on 
tight budgets without violating copyrights 
of software producers?
3. How can different individuals or 
research groups, at different universities, 
avoid duplication of effort when creating 
new software or adapting existing software 
for new uses?
4. How can new software, and new 
applications of existing software, make the 
learning environment more productive?
There are not new problems. But as Steve 
Ehrmann of the Annenberg/CPB Project, 
an EDUCOM Software Initiative supporter, 
put it, "the genius of [the Software 
Initiative] is that EDUCOM has put its 
finger on a family of problems and brought 
together people who were ready to work on
them."
The EDUCOM Software Initiative has 
broken down this family of problems into 
six areas. Six task groups are focused on 
encouraging academic software 
development, giving educators and 
researchers better guidelines for choosing 
software, developers models for 
institutional licensing of software, 
providing new strategies for planning and 
budgeting software acquisition and support 
services, ascertaining the demand for 
software in higher education, and even 
establishing an awards propam recognizing 
achievments in creating and using software 
in the learning environment.
"The goal of the task groups is twofold: 
to encourage the development and 
distribution of new and better software to 
colleges and universities, so that every 
professor and every student can have access 
to the best that the new information 
technologies have to offer, and to encourage 
higher education institutions to recognize 
and respect the needs of the commerical 
sector as it disseminates software among 
students and faculty," said Gilbert.
Thomas W. West, of California state 
University, the chairman of the Software 
committee of EDUCOM's Board, described 
the program this way:
"The EDUCOM Software Initiative is a 
multifaceted endeavor to deal withe the 
explosion of microcomputing in the 
educational arena. We're interested in the 
concerns institutions have about the cost of 
software; we want to know who is 
developing software. Most important, we 
want to know who is developing software. 
Most important, we want to know how to 
share information about who is using 
software, and how they are using it, across 
the spectrum of 3,000 universities in the 
U.S."
One of the first steps toward meeting the 
goals of the Initiative is the responsibility 
of the "Demand for Software in Higher
Education" task group, this group is 
learning more about how, where, and why 
software is now being usedor not used 
where it could beon college and university 
campuses. EDUCOMadn Peat Marwich, in 
coopertaion with The Chronicle of Higher 
Education, are now completing a 
comprehensive "Survey of Microcomputer 
Use in Higher Education" among 
EDUCOM members.
Software copying is a special concern to 
everyone connected iwth theuse of software 
on campus, from professors who want their 
students to use the software to the 
commercial producers themselves. It is the 
subject of a task group, "Institutional 
Software Contracts and the EDUCOM 
Code," which hopes to create guidelines and 
models for institutional licensing of 
commercial software.
"The EDUCOM Code," said Kenneth C.
Green, Associate Director of UCLA's 
Higher Education Research Institute and co
chair of the task force on licensing, "is a 
statement of principle, similar to a campus 
honor code, that reinforces the importance 
of intellectual property, including software, 
to the academic community, k sets an 
important standard for institutional 
responsibility, one that will affect the way 
software users and providers approach each 
other. Additionally," Green said, 
"EDUCOM is developing materials to 
facilitate site negotiations that reflect the 
needs of both campus users and commercial 
developers."
Copyright abuse is also aof special 
concern to groups like ADAPSO, the 
computer software and services industry 
association. ADAPSO has become heavily 
involved with the Software Initiative 
continued on page 3
New EDUCOM Guide Published
PRINCETON, New Jersey - Recently, 
EDUCOM ammounced publication of its 
first annual Guide to Corporate Associates, 
featuring profiles of 59 companies that 
offer high technology information products, 
programs, and services to the higher 
education community. The Guide is being 
distributed free of charge to more than
5,000 administrators, faculty members, and 
other individuals at almost 500 colleges and 
universities throughou the U.S. and abroad 
who are members of EDUCOM.
The Guide to Corporate Associates 
includes completely up-to-date profiles of 
59 Corporate Associate companies 
associated with EDUCOM. It describes 
each company's products, programs, and 
services; special offers to institutions of 
higher learning; information for contacting 
each company; and directories to the 
products, services, and programs offered by 
the companies-from hardware to
courseware, grants to user groups, 
consulting to electronic mail, and much 
more. The Guide provides a unique 
perspectve on the industry that provides 
information technology to higher 
education.
"A University may rely on many different 
suppliers for information, products, and 
services to support its information 
technology," said Steven Gilbert, 
Managing Director of the Corporate 
Associates Program. "But until now, there 
was no single source for information on 
these products, services, and their suppliers. 
Thats why we created a special guide."
In just a little over three years, the 
Corporate Associates Program has grown 
to over 60 companies. The program is open 
to any company, large or small, with a 
special interest in providing information 
technology products and services to
continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - The Tartan - November 12,1986
Relational Tech and Carnegie Mellon Form Partnership
ALAMEDA, California, November 10 - 
Relational Technology and Carnegie 
Mellon University have announced a fiveyear technology partnership agreement to 
create a distributed database environment 
that will span the university's seven 
colleges. This agreement marks the first 
non-govemmental pact to develop 
integrated information systems based on a 
distributed database environment that 
includes a variety of mainframes, 
minicomputers and personal workstations.
The implementation of this distributed 
database environment will provide end-users 
access to multiple databases residing on 
dibergent hardware and operating systems. 
Carnegie Mellon users in one department 
can develop applications an daccess 
necessary data and records from remote 
dapartments. Key to the operation is 
INGRES/STAR, Relational Technology's 
heterogeneous distributed database product 
which runs on a wide range of hardware and 
operating system configurations.
Carnegie Mellon has traditionally been a 
technology-driven environment, fertile for 
both alpha and beta testing of cross vendor, 
high-technology concepts. In the area of 
networking, some have emerged as industry
breakthroughs, like IBM's Token Ring 
Network, RT PC and Digital Equipment 
Corporations's DEC NET. Other projects 
that Carnegie Mellon has been involved 
with include the early exploration of using 
large disks with personal computers to 
provide faster ways to transfer data across 
PC-based networks, and participation in the 
Apple Consirtium.
Because of its involvement in the testing 
and development of products manufactured 
by a number of normally non-compatible 
vendors, Carnegie Mellon is home to a 
variety of hardware. The difficulty is 
accessing university databases across 
various departments is axacerbated by the 
variety of hardware. This problem is know 
in many organizations as "Islands of 
Information."
At present, the Carnegie Mellon 
computing environment includes 75 DEC 
VAX 780's, eight DEC 2060's, 400 Micro 
Vax's, 1500 IBM PC's, more than 200 
IBM RT's and 2000 Apple Macintoshes. 
It's administrative production systems, for 
example, reside on both a DEC 2060, a 
VAX 780 and a 3COM Etherseries LAN. A 
major development effort is underway to 
integrate University information within an
Ingres Database on an IBM 3083. Futures 
plans include developing a new student 
information system. These will reside on a 
VAX cluster and two 8700's 
"Under the new partnership, we plan to 
use the INGRES/STAR distributed 
database, along with Relational 
Technology's personal computer product 
currently being beta-tested at Carnegie 
Mellon, to distribute computing power 
across the university, moving data from a 
central system to departmental systems and 
ultimately to individual personal systems," 
said Tony Schnaller, Carnegie Mellon 
manager of systems development for 
administrative systems.
Carnegie Mellon is a pioneer in teh 
commercial use of distributed relational 
database managemtn. The university is also 
a beta site for Relational Technology's new 
Ingres for the Personal Computer product.
According to Len Brush, Carnegie Mellon 
director of administrative systems, "with 
INGRES/STAR, we will be developing a 
whole new family of information systems 
for higher education."
INGRES/STAR allows transparent access 
across a variety of environments from 
mainframes to mini-and microcomputers.
Distributed database thechnology transcends 
exising database managemtn and database 
networking technologies. It presents an 
organization with a single relatinoal view 
of all data stored within an entire network 
of computers so users need not be
concerned with where data is located, how 
to get it, or what type of hardware or 
operating system is used.
Relational Technology is a leading 
developer of relational database
management systems and a peioneer in 
advanced distributed database solutions. The 
company's primary product is INGRES, the 
Distributed SQL Relational Database
System. INGRES combines an open
architecture distributed database capability 
wint integrated fourth generation 
application tools and a high-performance 
SQL database.
Relational Technology's INGRES 
dominates the DEC VAX marketplace with 
45 percent market share. INGRES is 
currently available for a number of 
operating environments including DEC 
VAX/VMS, IBM mainframes and 
compatibles with VM/CMS or UTS, and 
more than two dozen UNIX operating 
system bases computers.
Pitt Displays "The Campus of the Future" for EDUCOM
PITTSBURGH - During the EDUCOM 
Conference, educators and industry leaders 
form across the country will have the 
opportunity get a first-hand look at the 
University of Pittsburgh's Campus of the 
Future.
Pitt's Campus of the Future, a project 
carried out in partnership with AT&T, is an 
integrated fiberoptic-based voice-video-data 
communication system that links 
buildings, classrooms, loboratories, and 
medical-instruction facilities throughout the 
University's 131-acre Oakland campus. Pitt 
is the first university in the world with 
such an integrated system in operation. 
Conference participantts will be able to see 
demonstrations of the system's capabilities 
in visits to the Pitt campus Wednesday and 
Thursday afternoons from 2 ro 5 pm.
Visitors to the Pitt campus will be able 
to visit the University's Information 
Resource Center in Hillman Library, the 
Advanced Microcomputer Graphics Lab in 
Forbes Quadrangle, the Graduate School of 
Business , the NASA Industrial 
Applications Center in William Pitt 
Union, the Interdisciplinary Department of 
Information Science in the School of 
Library and Information Science, and the 
Regional Computer Resource Center in 
Forbes Quadrangle.
Among demonstrations scheduled for 
Forbes Quadrangle are interactive video in 
science education and microcomputer 
interfacing in chemistry. Pitt's Department 
of History will also have a 
communications demonstration with social, 
economic, and geographic historians
showing how computers are used to create 
maps and newsletters and analyze data.
Three demonstrations will be conducted in 
Scaife Hall, De Soto and Terrace streets: 
intelligent system for managing 
information on laser disks, neuro-imaging 
expert system, and expert based systems 
modeling.
Computer software will also be exhibited 
in Forbes Quadrangle. Featured will be 
Campus of the Future software as will as 
MINI, a computer tutor for writers: desktop 
publishing with Macintosh Plus; desktop 
versus production electronic publishing; 
interactive bargaining experiment; social 
science data entry and verification; a 
computer-adaptive placement testing 
system for college mathematics; a 
comprehensive microcomputer system for
classroom testing; clinical education data 
base of health records administration; Mac 
publishing for academic journals; a dental 
simulation; and BioTutoe, a study program 
for the biological sciences.
EDUCOM participants will also be able 
to visit the Pittsburgh Supercomputing 
Center in Monroeville, this center, the fifth 
and most powerful supercomputing center 
for engineering and scientific research, was 
established by Pitt, Carnegie Mellon and 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, under a 
National Science Foundation grant last 
January.
Pitt president Wesley W. Posvar will 
address the EDUCOM '86 conference on 
Friday morning. His topic will be 
"Searching the Horizon."
Lucente, Carnegie Trustee and IBM VP speaks at Inauguration
in these institutions of higher learning.
Many of those agreements  such as this 
project at Carnegie Mellon  involve 
applied research that may lead to products 
such as the innovative "Andrew" software 
we have produced.
Others may not have such clear, practical 
results.
We have one basic criterion for deciding 
where to invest in higher education.
We support colleges and universities 
where the long-term interests of IBM, the 
needs of education and the national interest 
coincide.
Our joint development with Carnegie 
Mellon is an excellent example of that 
fusion of common goals.
In Carnegie Mellon, IBM has a partner 
that is one of the top-ranked computer 
science schools in the country, a university 
that is interested in practical systems 
solutions as well as computer theory.
Joining forces with a school of this 
caliber has given us the chance to explore 
development and marketing opportunities 
in advanced personal computer 
workstations, local area networks and 
leading-edge software.
Carnegie Mellon was looking for a 
busiiness partner to help bring advanced 
computer technology to the university and, 
at the same time, expand and advance the 
role of computers and education on a broad
In 1981, this project was only a gleam in 
Dick Cyert's eye.
But that gleam contained a grand vision, 
the vision of a bold new concept in 
computing and communications, and the 
vision of working with like-minded 
educational institutions to establish 
standards for educational software.
This task force recommened that the 
university proceed but they also gave 
implemented the freedom to decide how 
that should be done
They simply established three goals: 
improve access to computing for people on 
campus; build a good computer service 
organization; and provide the best possible 
coombination of time-sharing and personal 
computing.
The task force fgave the development 
team -- which includes both IBM and 
Carnegie Mellon staff -- the freedom to 
decide how all that would be done.
Fairly early, the developerss decided they 
would use a network  without a 
mainframe.
Both IBM and Carnegie Mellon realized 
we were talking about a very large network -
- possibly the largest in the world.
And, frankly, even after a four month 
feasibility study, we weren't sure it could 
be done.
But we were willing to try.
One of the first challenges was meshing 
the goals of both institutions.
Why did Carnegie Mellon want and need 
in a computing network?
Would only IBM equipment be used? Or 
was IBM willing to pay for other vendors' 
equipment, if thats what the project 
required?
Ithink the question of equipment  and 
the way it was resolved - illustrates the 
kind of discussions that businesses and 
educational institutions must have, and the 
kinds of compromises they must make, for 
the joint effort to be successful.
Of course, these kinds of ventures arent 
really carried out at an institution-toinstitution level.
It's people-to-people contact that makes 
them work. From the beginning, strong 
personal and professional partnerships 
between IBMers and Camegie Mellon staff 
have been the glue that's held the pieces of 
this project together.
And there have been lots of pieces to hold 
together.
Ten IBMers have been on assignment here 
with their families for the past four years.
And, so far, IBM has contributed $25 
million to this project.
There's moie to this than money and 
people, though. Much more.
There's been a lot of communication: 
briefings, confemce calls, lots of 
converstions and -- believe it or not - even 
a few intense intellectual exchanges  or, if 
you prefer, arguements.
In the last three years, Dick and I have 
personally met every three months to 
review progress.
From all that communication, I think 
we've come to a pretty good understanding -
- of each other - and of this project.
IBM hasn't just thrown money and 
equipment here.
We've tried to be very careful about that.
We've tried to make sure that we didn't 
send anyone or anything to Camegie 
Mellon without the clear understanding of 
how it would be used and the clear 
understanding that Camegie Mellon wanted 
it.
As a result, we are today inaugrating a 
local area network that is one of the world's 
largest.
More than 300 miles of cabling connects
50 buildings and more than 7,000 
computers and other devices will be 
plugged into this one entwork.
Through this network, today, students, 
faculty and administration at Camegie 
Mellon can share information with 
hundreds of other people on campus.
Not only are the users diverse, the 
components of the system also are diverse.
The network connects several types of 
personal computers and workstations, 
including IBM PCs and IBM RT PCs.
And it incorporates various local area 
networks, including IBM's Token Ring.

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1986 - The Tartan - Page 3
Cyert Speaks at Andrew Inauguration
-ajtner to complete such a job ans that 
[here were commercial possibilities in the 
concept of the network. I was pleased, there 
fore, when IBM indicated a strong interest 
in the project. Our first joint task was to 
determine the feasibility of a network that 
might have as many as 10,000 computers 
on it. At that time, in January of 1982, it 
was not clear that one could develop such a 
network nor was the software available to 
run the network if it were a feasible project. 
So, all during the winter of 1982 a 
taskforce diligently explored the limits of 
our knowledge to determine the possibility 
of bringing the network I dreamed of to 
reality. By May of 1982 the committee had 
determined the feasibility, and we had 
meetings in Armonk and Pittsburgh to go 
over the report. Then a feeling of elation 
swept all of us who had been involved in 
the project. We recognized that the network 
had passed the feasibility test and taken a 
major step forward in becoming a reality.
The Information Technology Center was 
formed as the mechanism for developing 
the software and planning for the proposed 
network. The Center consisted of 30 
people, 10 of whom were from IBM and 20 
who were hired by Carnegie Mellon. The 
project got a tremendous lift when Jim 
Morris agreed to become the head of the 
ITC and assumed the leadership of the 
development of the network. Jim hired the 
other 20 people to make the ITTC a 
functioning organization. IBM agreed to 
make a contribution for financing the ITC, 
and the project began to swing into high 
gear.
The two organizations had to work 
clcsely together to complete this project. It
EDUCOM Publishes 
Corporate Guide
continued from page 1
colleges and universities. Through 
participation in the EDUCOM conference, 
seminars, and other services, and through 
the annual Guide, the Corporate Associates 
Program allows companies to establish 
contact and exchange ideas with Member 
institutions.
EDUCOM is a nonprofit association that 
serves as a resource for colleges, 
universities, and research institutions that 
want to learn more about current and 
emerging trends in information technology. 
It serves as a forum for the exchange of 
ideas on computer applications in all 
aspects of academia: teaching, research, 
administration, and communication. 
Seminars, publications, meetings and other 
events throughout the year offer many 
opportunities for EDUCOM Members to 
keep up with the rapid advances in 
information technology.
The technology of information is based 
on the people, and meant for the people. 
This assertion is just one of the ideas 
underlying the argument in favor of a 
general revolution in education and industry 
posited by Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber in 
The Knowledge Revolution.
Recently published by the Carnegie 
Mellon Press, Servan-Schreiber's essay is a 
discourse on the role that the computer will 
and must, according to the author, take in 
the future. Putting the computer in the 
limelight calls attention to Carnegie 
Mellon because of the University's role in 
developing and implementing new 
computer technology. When describing the 
contributions of Carnegie Mellon to the 
Progress in technology, Servan Schreiber 
quotes such prominent university figures as 
Nobel Prize winner Herbert Simon,
is truly an amazing accomplushment in my 
view for a business firm and a university to 
have accompolushed this task in four years. 
In the process personnel from the two 
organizations have gotten to know each 
other. During the whole four uears we have 
maintained quarterly meetings to measure 
the progress of the project and to assess the 
problems that we had outstanding. It took 
real determination and a great desire to 
achieve our objectives that carried us all 
forward.
The establishment of the network 
accomplishes two major objectives: (1) it 
does give an alternative computer system to 
conventional time sharing and (2) it 
eliminstes the terrible problems that we 
have mentioned and all understand about 
time-sharing. So that if nothing else were 
accomplished, we have established a major 
alternative for universities and business 
organizations for a computer system.
A major aim, however, has been to affect 
education in a significant way. The hidden 
agenda has always been to bring about a 
revolution in the way higher education is 
carried on. As the project to establish the 
physical network progressed, we also 
developed an organization to do the 
software that was going to be required to 
make the nitwork tmly useful in education. 
In the period that the network has been 
under construction, the faculty and student 
on this campus alone have developed some 
200 programs that are modules of courses 
or suppliements to courses. These 
programs will be available to students to 
increase their productivity in learning. In 
addition, we have beenb able to automate 
the card catalogue for the library so that 
students will be able to go through the card 
catalogue from their dormitory rooms or 
any other spot where they are using a work 
station. This part of the project has only 
begun. We are working hard to develop 
more electronic publishing and to make
SANDY HOOK, Connecticut, November 
6, 1986 - Productivity Products
International ,Inc. (PPI), developer an 
dmarketer of an advanced software 
engineering environment, today announced 
the formation of the PPI Education 
Allinace. Under this unique program, 
colleges and universities are eligible for 
low-cost, institution-wide lecenses for PPI 
products, price reducations on books, 
manuals an dseminars, and access to PPI's 
technical hot-line. PPI also makes course 
materials and speakers available to 
qualifires institutions.
Until December 31, 1986, EDUCOM 
members can get an additional 15% off the 
product license fees courses available
Professor Raj Reddy of the Electrical 
Engineering Department, Vice President 
Patrick Cnecine, and President Cyert.
Beginning with the argument that 
America has lost its competetive edge in 
industry through laziness and failure to 
keep up with the Japanese, ServanSchreiber stresses the need to reeducate and 
retrain all segments of the American 
population to deal more effectively with 
computers. "In short, both national 
objectives of 'individual freedom' and 
'economic power' can be attained only 
through a revolution in education."
The writer believes that ultimately 
Carnegie Mellon will lead the way in this 
"knowledge revolution," a phrase coined by 
Carnegie Mellon's Senior Vice President, 
Patrick Crecine. The revolution can then be 
exported throughout the world. The
more use of the tapes of books and journals 
that are already in existence on library 
system.
We know, however, that we cannot 
produce all the programs that we need for 
the various courses anymore than we or any 
other simgle campus can produce all the 
text books that are necessary for a campus. 
Following this line of thought, we were 
able early on to get a grant from the 
Carnegie Corporation that has enabled a 
consortium of universities interested in the 
network to be formed. The representatives 
of these universities have done a great deal 
of work to get agreement on the 
characterisitics that we want in a student 
work station and have been able to discuss 
these standards with vendors in the hopes 
of getting certain characteristics such as the 
operating system standardized or at least 
available on all student workstations. We 
want an environment in which programs 
developed at any one campus can be used at 
any other campsu. The text book is our 
model.
One president has advised higher education 
to be "cautiously optimistic" about the use 
of computer in education. My advice is for 
all universities to move as rapidly as 
possible in this direction with as many 
resources as can be made available, those 
who do not will be left at the starting gate. 
The revolution is under way and as always 
the prizes are to be won by those with the 
foresight and the courage to grasp the 
opportunity enthusiastically and to work 
hard to achieve the objectives. I think you 
will see today what can be accompolished 
even though we have only scratched the 
surface. As we bvegin to integrate the 
findings of cognitive psyuchology on 
learning into our programs and to develop 
"intelligent tutors, " we will truly be 
making it possible for students to leam in a 
more productive manner. We have our 
greatest opportunity since the Gutenberg 
Press was invented, and we must not fail.
SCHEDULE CHANGES 
THURSDAY
The Annenberg Session from 2:30 to 3:30 
will be open not by invitation only.
Carnegie Children's School. Tour at 4:00 
pm cancelled; tours conducted as scheduled 
at 2:00 and 4:00 on Wednesday, and 
Thursday at 2:00.
The LISP Tutoring System. Locations of 
the joint CMU-Pitt presentation has been 
changed from Forbes Quadranglw to 
Hillman Library, Room 272. Starting time 
(2:00pm) remains unchanged.
Computers for Public Management and 
Policy Decision Making, the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs presentation will 
be held at 2:00, 3:00 and 4:00pm, Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall, Room 405.
The Andrew System, Parts 1,11 and III. this 
presentation will be held in the Bureau of 
Mines Building Auditorium.
Software 
Initiative Group
continued from page 1
because, said David Sturtevant, Vice 
President for Public Communications, "we 
want to improve the relationship between 
the software producing community and the 
university community."
"Universities have special needs," added 
Sturtevant, "that make them different from 
private individual or business users of 
software. We want to provide a good 
understanding of copyright law, and help 
university users
understand what constitutes legitimate use 
of commercial software. And we want to 
help develop alternatives to software piracy, 
for students, for example, with very little 
money. That might include things like site 
licenses and volume discounts."
To organize the vast information available 
about software and realted services, 
evaluations, publications, and user groups 
is one goal of the "Software Information 
Resources" task group. The group is 
nearing completion of its first guide to 
sources of information about software, and 
has polans for extensions of the project 
such as online databases.
Another task group, on "Academic 
Software Development," is researching 
institutional support for the development of 
Computer-Based Education software. And 
the newest task group, "Managing Software 
Acquisition," is evaluating different 
environments and approaches to software 
acquisition and management, with plans to 
schedule seminars on relevant topics early 
this spring.
The Software Initiative is being funded, in 
part, by a grant from the Annenberg/CPB 
Project. Steve Ehrmann, Of 
Annenberg/CPB, said that one of the most 
important aspects of the Software Initiative 
project is the awards program now being 
established by the Academic Software 
Awards task group, which is developing 
policies and procedures for an annual awards 
ceremony recognizing achievments in 
academic software. "The awards program is 
important both because it can motivate 
people, and because it can help establish 
standards for what is good software, M 
commented Ehrmann.
Well beyond the planning stages, the 
Software Initiative has mobilized the 
commitment of almost 100 talented 
volunteers from both EDUCOM colleges 
and universities and EDUCOM's Corporate 
Associates. The project is moving quickly 
to achieve its goal of having a major 
positive impact on the quality and 
availability of software in higher education.
Book Review: The Knowlege Revolution
PPI Offers EDUCOM Discount
through the PPI Education Alliance.
"PPI recognized the need to train today's 
students in tomorrow's software 
engineering practices and to make state-ofthe-art software engineering technology 
available to researches, " says Dennis G. 
Sisco, president.
The PPI software engineering 
environment allows developers working in 
C to take full advantage of the benefits of 
object-oriented technology without 
sacrificing the efficiency portability and 
familiarity of C. Software engineers using 
this environment can quickly prototype 
new applications, build efficient code much 
faster and , at the same time, build reusable 
software components.
development and implementation of the 
Andrew network was a major impetus for 
the composition of the essay. "Since the 
"computerized campus" system is several 
years ahead, shouldn't this model be applied 
in every country?" the author asks.
Servan-Schreiber is an eminent author and 
public figure. He is the founder of the 
French weekly L'Express, a cabinet 
Minister and member of Parliament. Books 
written by Servan-Schreiber include The 
American Challenge and The World 
Challenge, both of which have been 
published in twenty languages. From 1981 
through 1985, he was the President of the 
Paris Center for Computer Literacy. 
Currently, he is Chairman of the 
International Committee of Carnegie 
Mellon.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday EDUCOM Events
CONCURRENT 
SESSIONS 
Providing Academic 
Information Services
Ballroom 1
William Y. Arms
V.P. for Academic Svcs.
Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Patricia Battin 
VP. & Univ. Librarian 
Columbia Univ.
Malcolm Getz
Assoc. Provost for Info. Svcs. & Tech. 
Vanderbilt Univ.
Thomas J. Michalak 
Dir. Univ. Libraries 
Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Integrated campuswide information services 
that combine traditional library aetivities-- 
acquiring, storing, and disseminating 
information-and computing center 
activities--helping faculty and staff use 
resources. Organizational and educational 
impacts.
University-Industry 
Research Partner
ships: The Next
Steps
Ballroom 2 
John W. Alden
Mgr., Education Programs Development 
Texas Instruments Incorporated
John W. McCredile 
Dir. of External Research 
Digital Equipment Cop.
Sandra Ward
Dir. of Distribution & Sales 
WATCOM Group
Candice Wilut
Dir., Coporate Associates Program 
EDUCOM
Examination of several new cooperative 
models combining resources of 
government, industry, and universities. 
Examples will include programs such as 
NSF Engineering Research Centers, The 
Simiconductor Research Corporation, the 
Massachusetts Microelectronics Center, and 
direct corperate investments in universities.
Different EnvironmentsDifferent 
Approaches
King's Garden North
Introduction: Steven W. Gilbert 
Managing Dir.
Software Initiative & Corp. Relations 
EDUCOM
William Kennedy 
Dean of Instruction 
Th Louis Comm. College
James Morris
Dir., Information Tech Center 
Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Bruce A. Sherwood
Assoc. Dir., Information Tech Center & 
Center for Design of Educational 
Computing
Carnegie Mellon Univ.
David Smallo)
Dir., Information Tech 
Hamilton College
Contrasting an advanced environment for 
software development by faculty-Andrew 
from CMU-with other approaches to 
finding and adapting software for 
instiutions not computer intensive.
Will Faculty Survive 
the Computer Revolu
tion?
Le Bateau
Diane P. Balestri 
Asst. Dean of the College 
Princeton Univ.
Raymond Lewis 
Director
Learning and Tech Services 
Peter Lyman
Asst. Dir., Academic Computing 
Michigan State Univ.
Scott Roberts 
Prof. of Philosophy 
Carlow College
The impact of computers on faculty 
priorits in research and teaching and their 
implications for institutional change.
Regional and State
wide Networking
Kings Garden South
David C. Brown
Asst. Dir., Office of Info Tech
Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison
Douglas S. Gale
Dir., Computing Resource Center 
Univ. of Nebraska-Lincoln
Edward Goldberg
Asst Chancellor for Academic Affairs 
New Jersey Dept of Higher Education
Kenneth M. King
Vice Provost for Computing
Cornell Univ.
Glenn Ricart
Dir. Computer Science Cent
Univ. of Maryland College Park
Funding issues, benefits to user 
communities and government of recently 
announced or proposed inter-campus 
networks sponsored by state governments 
and NSF.
EDUCOM 
Membership 
Committee Meeting
12:15 - 1:15 pm 
King's Plaza
Box Lunch Sponsor
ed by Productivity 
Products Internation
al
12:15- 1:15 pm
Attendees have four afternoon choices: 
Campus Events at Pitt and CMU, and at 
the Hilton, Special Interest Groups, 
Corporate Demos, and Hospitality Suites.
Special 
Groups
Interest
Buses will be available outside the Hilton 
after SIGs for conferees who wish to attend 
campus tours.
1:30 - 2:30 pm
Liberal Arts Colleges - Ballroom 2 Front 
TwoYear Colleges - Allegheny 
Computer-Intensive Campuses - Ballroom 
1 Front
Medical Schools - Ballroom 1 Back 
Engineering Schools - Ballroom 2 Back 
Research Universities - King's Garden 
North
Software Pricing, Licensing, Discounts - 
King's Garden South 
Software Developers Forum - Le Bateau 
Making Effective Use of Consulting 
Services - Duquesne 
BITNET for New Members - Liberty
Campus Events
2:00 - 5:00 pm
Please see page 31 as well as as CMU and 
Pitt brochures included in your registration 
packet.
SPIRES meeting 
4:00 - 6:00 pm 
Allegheny
Aplle Computers Second Annual 
California Wine Tatsing Reception 
5:30 - 7:30 pm
Kings Garden North, South, and Ballroom 
Foyer
Banquet
7:45 - 10:00 pm
Ballrooms 1 and 2 /
Introduction: Michael Roberts 
Acting President Designate 
EDUCOM
Video Presentation: 
A Matter of Percep
tion
Akram Midani 
Dean of Fine Arts 
Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Perhaps the best example of technology 
today is the invention of the cinema and its 
evolution from a curiosity to an instrument 
registering life, a sequencer of action, and 
the current condition of a new art form that 
has its own semiotics.
The Future of Com
puting in Higher Edu
cation
9:00 - 10:00 pm 
Ballrooms 1 and 2
Steven P. Jobs 
President 
NeXT, Inc.
Steven Jobs, founder of Apple Computer, 
Inc., established NeXT with five others in 
September 1985. At Apple Jobs was the 
prime mover behind the Apple Education 
Foundation, the Kids Cant Wait Program 
(whereby Apple donated one computer to 
every scholl in California), and Apple 
University Consortium Program. NeXT, 
his new company, is focused on developing 
workstations and relating software exclusivley for the higher education markets

to
Lucente Addresses 
University for 
Network 
Inauguration
Continued from page 2
And, because the shared inforamtiona is 
stored on several file systems that act as 
one, the system can be easily expanded to 
serve more people.
And people are using it...
...to send messages...
...to teach...
...and to do research.
As you'll see in the demonstrations in a 
few moments, the screens in the sytem 
provide clearer, more detailed images.
The system also includes tools to give 
users fast access to the capabilities of t 
"Andrew" software.
For example, "windows" let people 
more than one type of information at 
time on the screen. And a "mouse 
users give commands simply by pointing 
Using the system, a student can interr 
a session of chemistry homework to f 
out wwhat time the basketball game si 
A programmer who is writing a sei 
commands casn see - in a window on 
screen - what the user of the finis 
program will see as a result of 
command.
A student preparing a history paper c( 
have notes in one window, a lib 
research document in another, and pop 
third to look up the professor's office ph 
number  just to make sure the paper re 
is due tomorrow.
Clearly, we're well on our way tov 
realizing Dick Cyert's vision.
This is a project that neither IBM 
Carnegie Mellon could have done alone 
And, frankly, I think there are few o 
business-university partnerships that c( 
habe accomplished what we have.
Both parties have contributed a great d 
IBM has contributed money, equipm 
people expertise, time and attention.
And Carnegie Mellon has contribi 
great vision, high standards and gc 
people and, from the beginning, 
committed its computing future to a 
and innovative system.
And, it has volunteered one of the r 
precious commodities found at a univers
- peoples attention.
In essence, Carnegie Mellon has been 
very large, cooperative test site fo 
prototype computer system.
And I want to thank everyone who has 
participated, for their patience wothhits 
imperfections and for their comments on 
how to male the system work better.
Both personally and professionally, I'm 
very proud of this project 
As an alumnus, I'm proud that today's 
Carnegie Mellon students are using a 
leading-edge computer system.
As a trustee, Im proud that this 
university is on the leading edge of 
computer eresearch and is calling for other 
universities to join in adopting the system 
and creating software that will make life
long learning more easily available to more 
people.
And, as an IBMer, I'm proud of ofr 
partnership with Carnegie Mellon.
It has influenced our technology and 
increased ;our capacity for innovation, ft 
had added to our research base, it has yielded 
Andrew, a product of which were very 
proud and it ahs helped establish a bridge 
between computer scientists and computer 
users.
This project is and outstanding example 
of the benefits of industry and academia 
working together and an accomplishment of 
which we can all be proud.
