Hen must be at liberty to 
6ay in print whatever they 
have in mind to say, pro
vided it wrong no one. . 
_CHARLES A. DANAc Cartietiie aFartau
Todays Editorials
VOL. 30- NO. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER IZ; 1935 '
Infraction of Rushing 
Rules Is Delta Upsilon 
Charge Against S..-E.
ntcrfraternity Council
Is Asked to Drop 
Local Chapter
5IGMA N.U CLOSES 
"ORBES ST. HOUSE
T'ijl Continue To Be Active 
Ae Town Fraternity; 
Finances Is Cause
Because of an alleged infraction ijtbe fraternity rushing rules DelUpsilon fraternity has asked Inerlraternity Council to suspend Igaa Alpha Epsilon. Council-Is Dvesitgallng the charges.Della Upsilon bases it charges urn the illegal pledging by SAE a man already pledged by DU. ULion on the ca6e will not lake ilace before November 23.Should the chargeB be substantial] by the investigating commit3 probable that SAB will official recognition as a ampus fraternity.
na Nu Closes House Nu fraternity on Forbes ;ireet which is closing ita house -ill continue as an active town fra* ernily. Financial reasons were reponsible for the removal, of the hiernity from the chapter house
greek.Bociety in (eresie. Delon Brannlng, Theta.Xl icil president-and Hilbert: Kis.Kelth McCutcheori.'editor of-the. rhlslle when' asked, if ;fraterhlti< uta get lower r.ales ptated-"We i (iviug the fraternltlesfavery?rate already. We -are reducing ! prlce of the yearbook';:and I 1 lo ece how at the-'same time can reduce the cost of-the.,fra
ternity pages. '
: ' Booklet pujt'Spoh{5/.'. tt has been.authoritatively, stated lial the booklet on ^fraternity ;lif e si Carnegie - whi^.^
i "days. Th -booklet will be >uic(i io members of the
transmitters 
Club Meets
Iroadcasting Activities 
Of Station Reported
arnGpie Tech Amateur Transmits Clnb held the first of Itsnew ies. of evening meetings in the No voom of Engineering'Hall on londay. November 4. Operation f the transmitter and the plans ir ihe proposed radio telephone iiiilon wore discussed.- Operatis schedules were outlined and isirihnted to the ten licensed opAccording to Philip Morrison, of operator of the CTATC, inter-. _CH reports were given on night Perations by William McClain Jf, and Robert Kirkland 37. These men were in the radio room | Friday night, November 1 to c o clocTt Saturday"-'iiovemiier In this time they established "'ay communication with amastations on the -West Coast, sh Columbia, Haiti, and AusHollyvood, West Australia. Thi lion is as far away from Pittsland static over 11,! half-way Ifl. The contact ut 3:00 A. M. on the: amateur en megocycie or forty meter :J length band. About three wared watts input \ power was at the lima Students interested ...__JSie Tcch Amateur Transmi are invited to attend the next nE on Monday, November 18, 50. A technical program, staoperation and' refreshments comprise the meeting. Bullethe Car!pecial Student ...
Tickets Offred 
For Old Maid
Special student tickets  5 olfered for the :currnt..produ^ "Old Mnd wfelMi 'Ms Vicine
week. The tickets may b' se\pk m 104, -.College of fFine .Arts. '"' wishing to take aflvantagehe student rates .should '' order p tickets in-advance, as it ..is for Professor' Kenyon to  the tickets from the main office as it takes .Ume to e the delivery, to school, --v-r e current production was wrlt0? Zoe Akin and was recently 
aJ* tlie Pulitzer prise. -It is on the took Old . Maid Jen Was written by Edith WharArmistice Day 
Is Observed 
By Students
Prof. Schoen Address 
Meeting-Discusses 
Causes of War
WAR DEAD HONORED 
BY MINUTE SILENCE
Letter from Colonel Samuel 
Harden Church Read; 
Regrets Absence
Professor Max Schoen, head of the Department of Psychology, was the principal speaker nt the Meeting for Peace held last Friday ut 11:30 in room 104, Industries hall."War is organized murder, said Professor Schoen in speaking of the 'causes of war. It is the carefully planned, carefully prearranged slaughter of countless thousands of Innocent human beings In an  act, scientific manner. . Who' stai wars? Never the people of a nati as a whole; always one or a group of individuals In their own selfish interests. Who pays for wars Never those who make It; always the Innocent bystanders who have nothing to do with its making, but
cost, .of the, last war/-. Professi Schoen  quoted: figures released - in ,th most' recent report of. the Car. negle.p^ace 'Foundation. 'According to Che best statistics obtainable, the World War. cost 30,000,000 lives and $400,000,000,000, In property.  ' ;^-v'- ><v "
i; .T>r.. Schoen concluded that the only. way to prevent future,. hyvmeans-of -a' slpw,. gradual.,prch cess of education. Said he, .War ieT'hdt a patrioticmovement, to. be idealized. When a dog Is fighting tor a bone, he Is not fighting for God, civilisation, and mankind; he Is fighting for a bone and fighting for
By p aceful methods," he said. "Peacemust be achieved by those who live for the future, not those who live for the moment. Peace <s an ideal, but remember, an. ideal 1st is usually the most practicalin the long run, and what Is practical at the moment is. on the other hand, usually a delusion!
Letter 'From Col. Church (Following Professor Schoens discussion, Saul Farbnian 36, chairman of <he meeting, read a letter from Colonel Samuel Harden Church, chairman of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Institute of
present arose and stood in silence for one minute -s a tribute to tho memory of the forty-one Carnegie students and faculty members who died in their countrys cause durIne the World War.
AFRICA EXPLORER j
Mrs. Laura C. Boulton, who will give illustrated lectures in the tie Theater this week.
African Films 
To Be Shown
Mrs. L. C. Boulton Talks 
In Little Theatre
Music In Program
Primitive Recordings 
Presented by Explorer
Mrs. Laura C. Boulton, African 
explorer, will give two . Illustrated 
lectures In the Little Theater this 
week. On Thursday, November 14, 
at 4:30, Mrs. Boulton will lecture 
on."African Music and on Friday 
she will* dlBCUBB "African Art. No 
cards of admission are required. 
Both phonograph records and mo
tion picture films are used in the 
lectures.
In 1929 Mrs. Boulton made her 
.flrgt .expedition to Africa with, the 'StrausCentral African Expedition. Since then' she haB made three other expeditions, the last in 1934 wlth-.thejStrauBB.'Wea^ Afj;lcapU&x^ petition, an<fsh'e Is ekgef to return.
Mrs. Boultons greatest Interest is in primitive music, and she has made.the only sound recordings which have been made of the exotic and unknown music of Africa. If you know the rhythms .of a people and their music, you know the people, says Mrs. Boulton. In sic, rather than through any of the other arts, one gets closer to. the true nature of the people and experience something of glair excitement, and humor which has come down through the gen '
irds !nals of a West African battle conveyed by an elaborate code of trumpet notes blown on Llhei horns. Another group of
British Cameroon, blown made of an elephant
Mrs. Boulton prepared records, of ,the complex music of six-piece balaphone (marimba) orchestra In a research for the department of anthropology at the University, of Chicago.
.Peace,nndThere Is.No. Peaces 
Need Effective Foundations
Economic Bonds of Mutual Interest Seen as Means 
For Preventing Wars; Economic Antagonism 
Is Rated Cause of All Modern Strife
By Dr. Nathan Miller 
There, are very few in this coun
tryas yetwho extol war ,for its 
own. sake, for the glory and manliit. Almost everyone. irrecreed or politcial affili-Likespecti.w -- -------ation, plumps for ''peace health and. prosperity, peace is an v good. But like healthand prosperity, it cannot be taken for granted but must be
guaranteed by certain effective 
f,o un'dations. You can lie certainTffat peace Syill remain a phantasm, however, in our presently ber basicDr. Nathan Miller cause
day societ
and
favor of . , ,
__The:f.eryent. .emotioi.-u^  sentimentalism, of pacifists must oF pitied.':really because, ih-.spite .of their weli-v?lshing they are -.off on
deny that if the.  ^'heart1' of man were differently schooled,' he might eschew recourse to the bav-Uttrlsth thtt^. waT.-.- Bat-ttou.-ceiiturles of experience have ehown without' doubt that spiritual regeneration or purging is utopian, that appeal to . r'flner feeling can so ofteri^be-ralsdlrected. hyvested In*, 
tertets that what uits out. to ee a
noble impulse, (such as many manifestations of piety or patriotism) soon is distorted into murderous mcaness. Young people , particubiif. invariablythis spirit is verted "by the wily machinations of selfish groups  usually older perThe bias toward war and  the' handicaps against -peace lie essentially in theeconomic and political organization of the world. In a sense, for' instance, the World War of 1914-1918 never ended. It persisted at least in the peace treaties which, like most of. these .nefarious .dqcunien Is,fui and rapacic> that even be-fore-the cannon, had stilled, the languished were making their preparations for revenge. Nor is-it entirely ^ matter'-'pf sentiment or wounded-'- pride' The efEective reason why the war was never ended was because.th,economic.policies ^.by .mbet of th Buropan
enlightened. .'.Tariffs, .bounties, and 'Tcobomc: b'r'r 1er a. of'ali Ttinas pfeentedthe fr^e ' flowof trade' "between the nations ,andCso exacerbated the an tagoni6mG b(itweert the nations^ The .United St'ates iset the worsi example In. this connection by' Its unyielding policy of exclusion -of-Imports: - This ccnpraic . warfare' alwaysprecedes actual armed combat on the battlefield and ini fact,may oe saia to. oe tne necessary preludeto it. Talk of dlctators-.and racialhatreds and ' (Continued on Page Two): - .
Program For 
Carnegie', Day 
Is Completed
Students, Faculty and 
Alumni to Observe 
Founder's Birth
PULITZER PRIZE 
WINNER SPEAKS
Carnegie Music Hall Place. 
Of Annual Celebration 
On November 25
On November 25. Carnegie Instiite of Technology will celebrate its twenty-third annual Carnegie
will be of special slgnlflci that sudents. faculty, and alumni win join in ceieorating me birth of Andrew Carnegie, one hundred years ago at Dunfermline In the Scottish Highlands.
Bagpipers Play The student body and faculty will Torm a procession which will march to the Carnegie Music hall when they will be joined by graduates' for an extensive program: ' Thia program wltl . Include a group of bagpipers who will play as-the procession enters the hall, the tlon of Scottish Airs by the Kiltie. Band, and the 'singing of' Aiild Lang Syne by the audience. {Dr. Samuel Harden Church, chairman aof the Board of Trustees will glv'ei short address concerning "Some
will be Douglass Southall
1936 Pulitzer Prize for the best, biography of the y^ar, o life of General (Robert E. Lee..In addition!
Overture to "Euryanthe by Weber; 
Honarlea ,Make Calls, .The three honorary fraternities ranking highest In, scholarship wlii' make their calls, and fraternity;
Additional features of this-one* hundredth . anniversary will be /memorial Issue! of the Tartan to Q^dtatrlb.utcd-. at :,the :;-Muslc  hall after tlie program, and the distribution of a special printed program.
cernlng. Andrew Carnegie and his former relations with the campus and students. This resume will also contain a' chronology of the Institute along with, outstandingevents of each year from laOO until the present time.Further Instructions and details of <ho celebration of Carnegie Day
Drama Group 
Gives Plays
3. Performances Listed 
On Thursday Program
groupthree one-act plavs under the direction of Chester M. Wallace will be presented by stu
dents in the Department of Drama on Thursday afternoon at 3:30 in the Studio, Administration building. No tickets of admission are
The first play on the program will be "The. Royal ChoiceA Fantasy by Mabel .Crane. It is an amusing tale of the difficulties
of the Madonna. The cast will be: Bretano. a painter, Eugene Holland; Fleurette, his wife. Frances Tiegal; the icing's Jester! jean Osterholt; .the Kings ..Messenger. Charles Pliilhous. The scene Is laid In Bretanos studio. The play will he staged by Anielie -Rose.Blackberry. a humorous character study of New England, written by Howard Smith, will be the
Mrs. Granger, Jane Van Duser:Plrilo Granger, Charmfan Leigh: Mrs:'.Waste, Avis. Lennon: Dorcas Hathaway, Theresa : Graff: Whitman, Helen Lubell. The .is laid in a.blackberry patch.
Thethird play,  farce, written ifi the play-writing, class by Portia Matthews is "Fame . Weds Fortun. It will - li directed bvDorthea Crawford. The characters: Jftrry .OirLr-thfc .Actr>fl9, ..Beatrice Kalljner; the Maid, Marie Sea-burgh. The. :huntinglodge  where thfe newly-weds. Mr. and Mrs. Maynard, have retired for their honeymoon.
Puppeteers Paged 
For Grid Contest
^& ali''wTi(im ';n';. may concern. After due deliberation., and - conscientious thought,. the.members of the Tartan staff-^havie decided tyat they, wish to prove to the public .. superiority, over the: staff, of the Puppet, ^physically as well as n:entally and.moraUr. . Therefore, the staff takes this opportunity, to formally challenge the Euppetstaff t. football. game, tlte tlm
iifti
and place of which may be J>y.. the writers, .lot-: the.. . monthly impertinence.   \ 
Ohange Made 
I|i Chapel Date
Rv. OConnell Speaks 
f At Services Today
liscsse Science
CJub Plans Program: 
freshmen Must Attend
Reverend E. Lawrence OConnell 
preside over the chapel serv;today at. 11:30 In the Little later. Father OConnell has 'Is Science An . Enemy of Religion? as the subject of his talk. Todays service is being sponsored by . the Newmnn club, wljlch is an organization composed ofi Catholic students on the local
Originally scheduled for next Tuesday, .chapel was recently changed to the-present date. This change was necessary in order to avoid a conflict with the Freshmau assembly which was postponed from-today.to next Tuesday. .An: ^unexpected.trip: out of town madoilfB^r.-Rbscbe^Ihrig.- Dean of-Freshmen was given as the reason for Freshman assembly change.
Father OConnelt. of &>t: Pauls Cathedral Parish, is the newly appointed chaplain to Catholic students of non-sectarian campuses In Pittsburgh.
According to regulations freshman attendance is compulsory at all chapel services. Upperclassmen are urged to attend if possible.
Debaters Union 
Will Meet Today
Be6t Speakers to Represent 
Tech at Westminster
tive will be upheld by Eugene Simons 37. and the negative by Albert Shapire -37. A district debating tournament will be held at Westminster college. New Wilmington. Pa.
Fine Arts Sororities 
Show Great Decrease 4 
In Number of Pledge#
Plebes Lead 
Upper Glasses 
In Donations
Faculty Subscriptions 
Outweigh Student 
Contributions
NIGHT STUDENTS 
WILL OPEN DRIVE
Welfare Campaign Closes 
Friday; Part of Money 
Will Go to C.C.A.
Tech amounts to $1<76 - thus far.
bers, represents approximately 300 student pledges.. Three-fourthe of the faculty have contributed up to date. %Engineers. Lead
Ing holds a definite leod with the :ollege of Fine Arts second, and Margaret Morrison College third.
juniors, seniors,-and sophomore
this Friday, ' November IB; Slu.
lions to the Christian Association office; Faculty members are urgod to mall their pledges to Mrs. L. J. Moore, assistant controller, heforo the: closing date. .<
Women to Assiet Night Student Council has asked the women of cameglo Tech to conduct a pledge drive tomorrow.lext Monday
president of the Women's Guild.'Ill head the women workers. She will be Assisted by Marv Lord *36. and Adelaide Remington 37.
sophomore honorAs in the.past, part of the money returned by the drive will go to the Carnegie Christian Association. The checking service conducted by
would be experienced at banks. This and the many other conveniences thQ organization sponsors hould assure their wholehearted upport by Tech students.Faculty Contribute 
The faculLv Is .contributing 100 er cent to the drive. Every man In the College organization, from :arpenter to professor, contributes. When ?'Frltz the popular campus groomer had waited  valnlv for a welfare contact for some time, he into the office in person to get a pledge for his subscription. Tech students can do likewise by
Only 35 Pinned As Silence 1 
Period Ends; 49 Last Year
Beta Tau Lambda Leads Organizations With Nine 
Accepting Bids, Gamma Gamma Is Next; Shortage 
Attributed to Finances Early Season
In comparison to previous yours, there wns a great docrenae 
in the number of pledges to the sororities in the ^College of Fn>e 
Arts. Although forty-nine girls were pledged to tho flve.^oron'- 
ties in caeh of the lust two yenrs, only thirty-five nieiiibers-^tp -: 
pledged as the silence period*' of the sorority rushing season 
ended October. 30. '.There wrb a eompnrotively email difference in -the number -qC. ' pledgOB to each sorority. Beta Tnji'  Lambda, whose presldont isVersatility 
Is Needed
Says Dr. Roberts to Eta 
Kappa Nu Group,
In Seeking Men
Good Character First 
Point Considered
ing honorary  society, meeting last Wednesday.
Dr. Roberts Is head of the servdepartmentof Westlnghouse.
and that the college graduate must bo able to do work In other things than In his own particular field.Said Dr. Roberts. "Schools stress subjective values apd; don't.tnke.in the human nature side. To be success on a job. a man must have knowledge in all lines and be able to get Along with poople,Dr. Roberts recommended that graduate get a -toe-hold on the commercial side first. To Illustrate his point he used the Westlnghouse company as an examplo.
Iu2s Westlnghouse employed
twenty technical and forty-five ommerclal. In 1936 the company expects to employ forty more 1 all of whom will come out of the commercial field.
A part of the meeting was taken ) by questions and answers. One of the questions asked was: "What e valid points in getting a 10b?" In answering the question. Dr. Roberts said that the character of the applicant wns the first point considered. Scholarship comesthe applicantsscholarship record must be ahovA the average. Other factors considered leadership, personality, p and church and school aciivF
Hydraulic Research Lab. Tests Models 
For U. S. War Department Dam Projects
Experiments Influence 
Changes m Design 
Of Structures
ous parts of the United States are now being tested for the. United States -war department In the Hydraulic Research laboratory. Three Tech graduates are employed full time on these modei studies, a number of undergraduate students have been working in the laboratory during their vacations and
jng.eJTp.ctfl .in.jpoditviilg...t]i.e..des.iso. of some of the major hydraulic structures now being built country. Some of the experiments are ptoneerlug in nature, and involve methods not previously used In any other laboratory. :
...Three - models :have been built
Vire'nia.. .When .this,fifteen-million dollar .project Is completed, the dam will be the largest : concrete structure in the eastern half of the United States. It Svlll provide navlgatlon-water control for ..the Monongahela river,..and will conIbute toward flood prevention at Pittsburgh. The concreting of the
iexactt e?)Ulway: :apr< (Continued . On Page vTwo)
I Fine Details Pointed Out in Tygart Dam Model |
Professor Harold A. Thomas, of the Hydraulic Research leberatoffyy Is shown here w|th a model of the great concrete dam now under construction-on the Tygart river near Grafton, West Virginia: When this $15.000,000 project 1 completed.: the-dam will be'-the largest concrete atruoture in the eastern half .of the Unlted $tat?. it wllt provide navigationwater control for the Monongahela rlver/and will help pre. vent floods In the Pittsburgh ares
president, had tho next Iivrgofjt group, and Alpha Kappa Psl, Phi. Dolta Mu, and Bota PI followed.;
- The decreased percentage.of.sorority pledges has been generally attributedto flnancInl .clr^UJPslances.. However, a.. niioibojr-. of !: 
the girls rBheUby,Hhe*aw6riti6B fool that they have not,had flolent length' of time  to. becoa^ ---lh^rB;-,qr
fore - the opening, of :;the. ruQt)iqk season this year miiy hav l)en a  contributing factor,to the lack^ol1' response lo the sorority bids 
The pledges who accepted thk bids of the various sororities oro.
- Alpha.. Kappa. Psl: jano Ben^- - iiettB.- Florence Bpwman. ? Core.v.Pinknoy'.-^iGotti* Ru^'h^'7iaTta}ii.; i hoff, Claranel McKlbben. and Kathr erlno Scott. ..
Beta PI: Klttv. Baur. Mnrinn- Brooks,. Betty ICcely.-Jane Mltchel.. and Betty Yohe.
Martorio Mills. Betty Montverdi.-
l'Ach. Floris Finesllver Madclin  Marcus. Alta Moses. Loie Odio, and Benlfth. Schwoltier;Gamma Gamma Gamma:* Barbara Cmtty. Margaret Herd. Irene Horvati. Virginia Irwin. Jovscel
m
i:pp
Graphic Arts 
Talks Begin
Elmer J. Koch Will 
Speak on Tuesday
M. Amerlca_wlll anealc_<Ject "The'place of a Trade Asso-:. elation In the Development of Bna-: Iness* boforc the stpdents in the Department of-Prlntlne. i.ext Toesday. The lecture wlH he given mr room 104. Industries hall and wi)][  be open to students and faculty, members from other departments  who may be Interested
This, lecture .is one in a series - sponsored by the American TnuU* tute of Graphic Arts of New Yojrkvduring the remainder of the school J and will include discussions'/;' on of national reputation on photography, industrial manage. fine prlntJng. and research ing 
hg--_________________ 
W. A. A. Holds 
Field Me el
Hockey Game, Archery 
Tournament Planned
Field Dav.-an afternoon eet aBitje - b^ the .-Women's Athletic Aseocia*; . -conclude the 'outdoor-gy:  * "1. will; he.-heliiv.ttey game andoe >nt. will conBtilate
having the highest season1 average:^; will .compete In'the archery toumi*^ a: *1  I M Af ARL : c'cef rf ; the .program refreshments will
J? di< ili charg< of arrange
as. Spectators.:-- will be.?!welTr\'

---------------------------------------------------

TBE CARNEGIE TARTAO TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 12, 1935
New Chic Fashions Demand 
Rough Weather Accessories 
For Sport, Formal, and Tea
New Formal Silhouettes 
With Peacock Skirts 
Are Picturesque
By &4va Mendel 
 No preliminaries tills time  we 3 going to plunge in and give you
solved it splendidly lor you. The new accessories are dasigned especially to take tho stingout of exposure to t1- ---------
. and to eten&tbr cttfcm. Fwriffrtance,You can stroll along the cajnpiis  Id rain or.snow, and be as nonchalantabout it as - It it -were spring; simply because your uw rubber galoushes are as good look* Ing as yonr campus suit. They show a combination of leather effects, and fit as trim as your knitted gloves.Luncheon-bound, you step out of he car into a baby blizzard, but your hose and feet are protected by  Uie fur-trimmed rubber boots, low cut and flattering to slim ankles.Should you go to the hockey matches after a formal date, you 
: neoa-irotfJoin-in; thsganral -ioot- stamping.' Your evening shoes are protected by white rubber carriage boots, fleoce lined for warmth, fur trimmed for looks, and laces for -your instep.
If any of the articles men' tloned in this column arouse 
your, interest call Hazel 2677 
 a ay night at 7:00 o'clock.
the rain? Tin new gloves are act
ually water-repellent, and made of knitted snow cloth in bright shades with dark palms and strippings. \ Choose' Your''Format' ' .A new formal is terribly exciting. There are so many different styles tnat you get dizzy trying to make up your mind. Well stop the fashli ^.go-round and for a moment.shionclaiyour bead. There are really only
.'led touches, paillettes, and sequins. ' >rhe second is in favor of the combination of fllmy fabric with a
P011 OF COLLEGE 
EDITORS FAVORS 
F. D. ROOSEVELT
President Wins by Big 
, : Majority in Pulse 
Of Nation  Vote
" ' In a oil'of editors of college 
newspapers^ magazines and . yearhooks .conducted-.by-PulBdof the Nation, a monthly magazine ofopinion 406 votes out of 44. cast  were' for there-election of President F. D. Roosevelt.' '
The complete returns, announced Friday, gave Roosevelt 408 votes; "William Borah. 52; Frank Knox, 26; Herbert Hoover, 23; Norman 'TJatonas, ';23^s<3oyernor, Alfred Lan: dott; :22; and:other candidates from 
1 to 8/
' A separate poll for parties show. . . ed the following results: Democrats, 366; Republican, 183; So'cialfsts, 45; Independents, 20; and Communists, 10.
restrained amount of tbis a's new draping. The dresses heavier one, and for - flesh with black. The third insists on gloves
picturesque. One lovely silhouette
Another favorite : silver moire danco frock with a peacock skirt, puff sleeves, revere neckline, aud tho velvet carnation corsage.
Initiated Coiffure Cllpo 
.. _eems that we have a perfect passion for jmttiilg !orn*inients!;ln' hair! The latest ingenious Idea  .o initial, your hair.- The tiny rhinestone clips with your initials the open square, circle, or diamond are ahsoluetty ravishing.There Is a new dress Idea in doggie-ness! They are little rhinestone pups of any breed you desire, with a green rhinestone bow at the neck, green eyes, and red rhinestone tongues. Pin one on your scarf and be as dog-gone as you like.An amusing gadget is the new football perfume vial, the little brown* metal' ftbtball; strung on, a. Tech-colored ribbon (Pitt, too, if you like) wlUi a pin fastener opens to disclose a liny bottle of new perfew deft toucbos of pure make-up. and the basis of lasting lovlness is laid. A well-knownbeautician has said: The funds* mentals of beauty consitutes qulred couvse! And if you take too many cuts you will flunk out
____ When it comes to an exciting subject like make-upI know you will /dludy day-and?night! ' But remember thisunless you know the fundamentals of skin care, you cannot hope to apply your knowledge of make-up art properlyall
First, you must And what kind of skin you have, i treat it accordingly. BUT, mod beauty care starts from within and from outside in.
Archaeology 
Is Subject For 
Cultural Talk
lThe Story of the Past 
To Be Told By Rev. 
James L. Kelso
WILL SHOW SLIDES 
OF PALESTINE WORK
Illustrate Excavation Scenes 
And Actual Digging Up 
Of Buried Cities
C.W.C.A. to Hold 
Discussions Wed.
Rev. H.F. Stoddard Presides; 
Dinner To Be Served
CWCA will hold two discussion meetings tomorrow, the first from 12:30 :to. 1:15 in-the faculty CJub roni .bl'tKe Ihn;rthe ;secciii fror 4:00 to 6:30 in the Recreation hall of Margaret; Morrison. All girls
Reverend H. FJ Stoddard of the Bellevue Baptist church will prethe discussion; which
nd Moderi>rlydiscussion meetingas. held at ue to lack of. time, two will be held hereafter. - Following the afternoon meeting, dinner will, be served. The chargeCarolyn Hen
According to President. Angell of Yale, an historical novel la like bustle; It is a fictitious tale based on a stern reality.
Research Laboratory Tesis 
Government Dam Models
Experiments Influence 
-.- Changes m Design 
Of Structures
' (Continued:From "Page One.). cushion-pool dam, and conduit-out; let deflectors, which ; were workedout with painstaking care on. the-models at Carnegie Tech during the
group oflno.dels to Investigate the .proposed design' for the entrance "section ' of the outlet  conduits of ' the.Tygart river dam. These great . conduits - will discharge the flood
-duit walls at the point of entrance . might produce disastrous conse-. quences.  Incor-ect curvature these ' walls might cause vacuum formation, known as cavitation, accompanied by , such .heavy vihratlan, as... to . destroy, the steel-walls of the conduit, and tear ^Oiit -greal-masses - -ofttr audertyed by tbe fact that snob troubles have occurred on a most serious /scale in another dam. one of lhi /injajor atructuresofmodern times
progress in the laboratory, dams are th new Emsworth dam h 'Ohio ' river,-the: GalUpoHs dam'on the Ohio river, and the Tuscaloosa dam on the Warrior in Alabama, Tests on. models
i -most'favorable conditions-possible. 'TMdrt'shpwth'caritatlon ' effects  '.withhlgh prcision/ the - .newest >;nnodel -of-t& condults at .CwnegJe Tach -iB being enclosed. In such .iway-a to make It possible to
largest and finest navigation structures.
Increase. Pittsburgh'Pool The new Emsworth dftm will raise the level of the Pittsburgh Pool" seven feet, thereby eliminating the old Allegheny river dam No. I and the Mohongaheia ri' dam No. 1. This Improvement \ ... greatly Increase the convenience of navigation on the rivers immediately . adjacent to the. city. To determine how the construction of the new Emsworth dam. win affect flood heights at Pittsburgh, a mod el of several miles of tho Ohio river has been built in the laboratory. This, model is 88 feet long, and shows the full length of both .channels ' of the river opposite Neville island; / Tile:  building>>f-Hie-QalipoKsdam is part of an extended program to replace groups, of the od;lovable;-, .'dams' on the Ohio' rived -by single dams of much heavier consteuctton and higher' lift, in -the case of theGalllpolis dam, the' control of.swift croas-crrente In the river near the lock entrance :provided.adlfriciilt-.problent-,for;the 'engineers' in  charge of^'the-'design. The.'labotory .studies .at Carnegie T<^h^i(i^ivftirn8hͻig:orviha'irob* Holutln :which jis thoroughly
ES.DC that usedfor the model. Itselfr  ..This-unusual feature of the expert-___ attracts  widespread attention~ -Trbtn the. many American and tor engineers who are Interested ^ctii'thedeslgn of outlet.conduits In
.^eiTtudies for three different 
^ YfrsriUTiOtton dams are
Continuing the series of cultural 
talks' sponsored by.-Theta Tau, en-i 
gineerlng honorary. Rev. James L 
i will speak before the Car
negie students this evening at 6:16, 
the Commons annex. 
Archaeology is the subject; one 
i which Rev. Kelso is well qual
ified to speak. By means of slides 
a good amount of first-hand 
knowledge, the speaker will show 
and tell Just what happens on an 
Archaeology expedition in The  :ory of the Past.
The first-hand, knowledge , was. gathered by Rev. Kelso in expedi-' s to Palestine. Working with Jeruselum School ' of Oriental Research, he visited that country  the summers of 1926, '30, '32, and 34. On these tripe he took the pictures from vhich the slides are made.
Rev. Kelso is with the Pittsburgh-Xenia Seminary, and is the Archaeology editor of Bffaltothesa6la, and of Sunday-Sohool Times.
Morrison Science club, and the Citmas club.
Slides' showing beautiful -pictures] of Palestine and the work of th Archaelogists will take up a major t of the program. These slides show the places where the excavaconclusioiprevious Theta Ttu talks, this program is open to the
Carnegie Mail Honored at Convention
Newest Methods of Teaching 
And Engineering Problems 
Discussed at S.P.E.E. Meet
Prof. McCully Elected 
As First President 
Of New Group
NOTED SCIENTISTS, 
ENGINEERS ATTEND
Thirty-one New 
Members Voted 
. To 'J'eknon Club
regular meeting last Thursday_the SbadyBlde Presbyterian Church. The new. members Include: Richard Byrne.- Charles Beard,- Betty Col-. lins,: Eleanor Be Muth, Virginia Filler, Martha Lou Fuller, Carolyn Gilbert; Evelyn Gillespie, Carolyn (Herron, Mary Jahn, Frank Kreider, Helen Knight, Jean Molr, LItfleld McIntyre, Florence Malllsee, HarGehevleve StraeBpley, Mary Sweer, Lief Thorsten, - Mrgaret  Timble, Agnes Walsh, Mary Yorke',' Margaretta Phillips, Nancy Chancellor, and
Peace, And There 
Is No Pea
dynastic ambitions. all you like will find that, after, all, such motives . are insignificant and powerless without the rooted cause of all modem war, which. is ecoantagonism, which ultimatebctwefen nations - which' :oes on in season and out Arms ire needed only beacuse of this .inevitable tendency of trade to revert
Modern nations' are impelled Into the mad Adventure of the battlefields also because of the baffling fconomic dJstress'at home,< because ipovei'ishment of so many
hopelessness of the youth. Unaeffective solution of these grave domestic problems and unwilling to untie the Gordiau knot of unequal opportunity and wealth at home, the masters of these countries revert to the time-honored strategem of producing a diversion of interest, and of these none Is more telling than making on'another nation. Fascism especially. uses the. logic. of a heedless, terrorized -search for assuagement of internal revolutionary conditions by resort to the panoply of the parade'and the'uniform: This policy .makes, special appeal of, course .the.'yqung:. .and the inexperienced.
internal reform ot unemployment and :economic. distress.What could induce world peace ore effectively than mutual inter . (ts;,than economic bonds that partake :of .mutual interest?. In other words, .'thei/.oiiiljr; lasting-recipe. beVisitors Attend International 
ExhibitionSee Antony : 
And Cleopatra
Professor Harry M. McCully, bead of the Department of Engineering Drawing and Descriptive
Engineering Education' at tha-^ovganizatlonv meeting of1 thatr^oayi The meeting was heldin Pitts-, burgh last Friday ' and Saturday, with Carnegie Tech acting as host < te visiting educators.
The conclave was sponsored by Carnegie, ..the. University of Pittsburgh, Penn State, Bucknell, and the. University of West Virginia. However, pmctio&Uy. the entire ork of making preparations and -rangements for the first meeting as carried on. by Professor McCully:. Professor F. M. McCullough, head of the Department of Civil Engineering; and Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director of the College of 
Ehglpeerliigv. About one hundred fifty 'scientists and' engineers at
tended the two. day session.
Following the organization meeting, the remainder'of Friday after__ its purpose the improvement of the educational and professional standards of the engineering profession. Importaut phases of ifs work deal with the. accrediting of schools of engineering, the establishment of national standards of recognition, the selection and guid:. of engineering students, and
iral R. I. Rees, vice presidentof the American Telephone and Telegraph Company; and Professor W. W. Hodge of West Virginia Uni;da^.-atrdth''^mtwrth-dam'^ll ;haye;'.extfmely.':':l'rge.;rmyable ateelgates'MVodelBto1 pre-ietnnit ;th ;,;;hydraullc;.^prs'u]ce.., againstthese gates : when partly' opeji are now -being designed In . the la,brathe.preaervatloh'of'thetrade-tlea, thert. will be. more healtation to re-aorttb^arnis^'-';7; ".........; :-'Eoonoinic '';>.'disajmarnent' precede.yactual -disarmament, and Bome -of -uaf^-perhapB avery few-r must be.ready and .willing to pay. th.e\ price.for it.. :,WK^n'.the vast' fbiird^n of arms falls -way tlieii .p^rha'ps see that the < always within our own gs abroad y
to be done In helping the young engineer even after his formal education is complete, he said, and it can be accomplished successfully only if the education and the professional man cooperate."
General Rees also deplored the tendency of many engineering courses toward extreme speclallzashould center ly on one field of work to the elusion of all others, he said. With this in mind, the E.C.P.D. is preparing from time to time recommended reading lists for engi' igineering students,whichandntalnonly the best
lion.
same problem was tot upon by Professor Hodge in hi the licensing of engin
Rico; Hawaii, and the Philippine Islands have licensing laws, these their standards ofand professionaleducatiothat they still leavt____Ired. Said Prof. Hodge 1 sion, The engineer has right to recognition on a high pro1 standard as the physician, the-dentist, and the lawyer."
At the conclusion of the afteron sessions, a dinner was held Carnegie Inn. The speaker was Howard N. Eavenson, vice president of the Pittsburgh Coal Company and president of the Minings Advisory Boar'd.
Ten Carnegie Profasors presented these meetings. They
Electrical Engineering; Professoi ;WiTrinks, -head .of the Dapartr ment.- of Mechanical Engineering; Dr. M. M. Frocht, Department of Mechanics; Professor H. A. Thomas, Departmenfof Civil Engineering; Dr. L,. F. Shaffer, Department of Psychology; Dr. P. S. Barto, Examiner; and Professor McCully.
Engineers Are 
Dominated By 
Scientific Toiie
At California Tech They 
Use a Mathematical 
Athletic Cheer
MECHANICS REAL 
FEATURE OF SCHOOL
Is Smallest Department Yet 
Conducts Three Full 
Graduate Courses
By Philip Morrison' 
here are a few distinctive feais , that mark an engineering . Students who acquire a
Is authority for the statement that California Institute of Technology, another C. I. T., has for a regular nthletlc cheer a rigmarole beginning e to the s ds dx . . . ! Thats being technical!
It is true that schools of other kinds have math courses, physics courses, and so on, but a real featureof >an engineering school that Is still'hardly a specialized-dbjecl nechanicB. Carnegies Dpartit of Mechanics deserves special consideration if from this point of view alone. Although one of tho smallest departments, with only four members, it' conducts a full graduate as well as undergrade
At piresent the department offers three, graduate courses, which total fifteen students,' including some candidates for a master's degree. This 19 Justly considered by the men in the department as a remarkable showing for the departNor is the activity of
Enforcement of-tho traffic regu
lations on campus, has resulted; lu 
the arrest of violators, including 
both students and faculty.
This Is one time the faculty and 
students heartily agree. Both think 
that their arrests are unjust. Such howl as waB raised by them, has 9t been rivaled for some time. Dont they realize that our city is supported bytaxes, fines,_ and
flclal givers to our citys support The odd part about It all. was, that the faculty, having more authority and finances, made the loudest
y.The individuals who parked in the first drive received..a fine of ten dollars, and the others received a fine of one dollar.esult .of thisotlon,..the. Oakland police have made'the re^ stricted areas a decent place to walk through . Instead of looking downtown parking lot on Saturday. Says a member of our ipus police I will put t
out you automobile owners!
and problems.The department is highly fruitful in original research. Dr. M.
present planning to present a paper to the December A. S. M. E. which definitely applies the results of photoelasticity to actual practical determination strengths in materials like bakelite,
original paper, which, if it moets the final tents, will demonstrate entirely new method. He 1 promised to give pre-publicationdetails to the Tartanif It i>rks.
The colloquia - mentioned last time in-this column sometimes provide excltemei tion. The Physics colloquium of last Tuesday brought-plenty ot academic fervor. Dr. E. M. Pugh (lellvi
CANT SMOKE A PIPE?
IESS NEWS
Traffic Violators 
Howl At Fines
Dept, of Printing 
Gives Exhibition
Packard Advertising Done 
By Carnegie Graduate
An exhibition of printed matter, which will illustrate the relation between printing end advertising
today and continuing through Nomber 22, in Room 136 Industries. This is the first in a series of exhibits planned by the Department of Printing to acquaint the present students in the department with the type of work doi graduates.-;
-esent exhibition consists of work done under the supervision of J. W. Crevellng, class of '29, supervisor of production in the adDo You Stud 
With Radio?
If So, Does It Affe 
Grade Factors?
Answers Soughj
Tartan to Survey Camp^ 
For Statistical Data
Do you. study with the radio  The Tartan will find outfind out:
The Carnegie Tartan is plaQrilr a survey which will deal with 11 relationship between the edn tor and studying with the The students who win aid In L ering the statistics for scheme are: Robert Greiner  College.of Engineering, Alhr. j t! perln 3fc College of-fine Arts Ruth kWeiler' 371,1 Margaret rison College. These people to ask every student of Ihelr. lege whether they study whlUiN ening to the radio or not 
After gathering the material n, li6ts will be taken to tbe rec< ' office where the factor colum be studied. Then this columi the yes or no answers of students will be compared, we shall know who Is the grind, the devotee of Urn
gram including wiudow diepia public invitations to the ibn ------;, and promotion literate
rketing, and photography serves as an example of tbe creased use being made ot phoi
According .to a , prof psychology at'OreflonS vereity, the fellows who receli As are usually the meek missive type who can be molds to suit the prof's will. The ini pendent and defiant type aveng
Send'Your
NInnInf
Home by
RAILWAY EXPRESi
No need to burden yoaraslf with the transportation of trank 
baggage and personal effects at vacation time...seed ibti 
. all home by Raitway Expre 
. Heres tbe way...merely telephone Raflway Express 
wall all for-tb-shjpmentB  whisk-thorn away on laivj 
senger trains swiftly and safely to destination. Yea ttke yo 
 train home with peace of mind, knowing your baggage willb
wax home almost as soon os you ere. Rates surprisingly 1<
A raI receiptsone at each endinsnre safe handling end deliver
soxo After vacation, well bring yoar baggage back again,
^ ( Dating all worry, trouble and unnecessasy expense 
icnti Fot service or information teleohone
326,Penn Avenue Atlantic 3600"TTCiifitf.Offlc1126tiv'. Sirtfr--;aiw:. Liber^^Aywr-Atlantlc 3600Pittsburgh, Pa.
transrm ietiCC
held on the various questions and problems which were'raised. Among'the'points agreed upon
tonal work. Said Dean Sackett, This diversity-. Mn . standards, -is evident from the very beginning of the training, period of th engineer clear through his' professional career. For example, some engineering schools will' -admit any graduate of an accredited high sctisol;, others., admit only those
case may be; white still others t quire a personal interview with each candidate."To remedy this situation'the council has suggested a series. of coordinative entrance examinations in all courses." Such exami*- nations have been adopted by schools in-EngHa.;:and .mathe-.
EASY WAY TO GETROOM ON DANCE FLOOR
ctIio Ii fIus hIs 
gl eUpy djde
ifcey-- shew-thai rtfea-. 'standard^rlnEnglish' for the engineer is much lower than that in any of his other subjects; which seems to. indicate that engineers are deficient' in fcnglish, especially In spelling, and vocabulary. Other investigations have revealed that a students grade .in. rawing, and descriptive:
ed the necessity of cooperation beHenmuse 
tbaeH lir em 
Helie ylsou 6 
epimwbsh 
Hwbeop ms 
utuoeibo rmv
emi d wpbop 
utuoeiboltt, 
oplihuH 
nrguiH 
lsy tmwuiH 
ewbs gmionv
gbsuH .ctCF 
HTnsT (g) IS 
PROJECTED OUT 
ON END OP 
REVOLVING 
POLE. FEATHER 
TfCKLES SKUNK 
AN D-MAKES - 
HIM MAD THUS 
ASSURING 
PLENTY; OF 
ROOM P. S.
IF ORCHESTRA 
ALSO CLEARS 
OilT GO FOR 
A WALK IN1 . 
THE PARK

---------------------------------------------------

THE C BNEGIE TARTAN,
tartan
tarnE['w5'? ^1
By Scotty Charles
r 1
the LATEST TARTAN BRAWL was little moi'fe than a ca 
rf of the Duquesne game. This Is entirely In 'keeping with the 
athletic policy or two games for one. All we have to do now Is sit 
kand hope that the fray with Pitt Is a replica of the Purdue affair
THESE HOLY-CROSS LADS are known as footballers of some re 
j and we heard little talk ot victory from the Plaids before the 
hjiHe. The idea was to hold the score downif they could have h 
down 13 more points everything would have been forgiven.
CAN'T BE .DENIED that the boys played good ball but h< 
alter Buddy Ovepen is-gsing to arrange to' have the first quarter 
played last when the Sklbos are going better and can stop the 
jfiit have been sprung In brief moments ofryawnlng. After the Cru...... - had got what they wanted by means of a little fair to bettei
legerdemain, they grasped the hoghlde at every opportunity and H 
in appeared that they were going to make a permanent settlement 
soon as they could pitch their tents. The Tartans found the going 
tiiijh In spots but appeared to have everything but the goal line punch 
th they havent shown all season.
ONCE MORE BOTH TEAMS TOOK TO THE AIR until {he fracas 
aa lo take on the appearance of stratosphere polo. The spectators 
nere about ready to send out tor Prof. Picard to referee the floatings 
in the Holy Cross lade began embarrassing our heroes by catching 
football for them and even going so far as to try to run away with 
|L The Cruaadera had away with a pigskin, passing it among themielveB like a plugged quarter. The display wsb pretty to watch but 
(be lateral preeifgftatioo netted them only 35 yards In six downs which 
only lukewarm for this type of play. | der i
HOLY CROSS KICKING CONSISTED mostly of punts d<
Ihlrd base line In the first half. A booming punt of ten or fifteen yards 
was regarded as sensational by the Worcestershire^ during this de
triment of the clamor. However, during the second half they settled 
down and their booter could have easily outdistanced most junior high 
ichool punters. These so-called kicks, aided the Tartan cus 
rably, especially. In view of the fact that Charlie Splsak was getting 
(nom off In neat order. "
AFTER THOSE FIRST FEW HOLY CROSS plays In the game, 
iii&sr e? the sklbo supporters headed for the sideboard for a bit of 
morale. The spirit was catching and the ladB then settled down 
TPork. The Plaids seemed to gel the breaks about mldfleld and gh 
(hem back somewhere around the goal line. The Hues were both pretty 
ragged but the Crusaders .had a lad named Yablonsky (wait till Cecil 
DeUille hears this) who raised great ado through the'wail and among 
(be secondary who. got to know him. pretty well before the afternoon 
was finished.  ,
JERRY MATELAN, WHO THREATEN TO BECOME something 
ol a national issue If hie early successes, continue, did most of the 
ground gaining for theSklboe. It seems like we are getting Into.the 
habit of mentioning.this lad. We are"nw walling for'the customary 
complaint that the-ball: carrier always gets all the glory while hi 
.itooges take the slugging. However, thla years squad Isnt too sur 
blocking outfitjandHHltf iladiiMt'alan^can no forward,- slide Ir.ieeree and then sh^t back t second quicker than any rabblt.back I 
ave ever seen. Ysir, the lad deserves lots of credit.
ALSO. ABERCROMBIE. ' WRAP UP A FEW sweet peas for the 
rest ot the boys who are  doing  swell work. Kenrfon conti: 
eiceiient work nt.lackle. and .will probably be held over for e:
J/ormanceff. Babe Patt continues to be one of the team's beat defensive 
ends aa well as aneat bit. of & paB$. receiver. Splsak continued to 
ahlne and Frank Chyzewskl did well and Steve Trbovtch . . . ah, well,
.they were all.gobd. . ' : -
THIS IS NICE WEATHER FOR ENTHUSIASM of some sort 
the best thing we [can think of Is next year's team. . The boys 
learning fast and developing-neatly. They wont lose many regul 
by graduation this year and with a strong pfehe crew everything lo 
chawmlng. _______________ 
Pending Fracas Attracts Attention 
Over the Entire Hearst Paper Chain I
Have Nebraska Game 
As Tartans Rest
On Thanksgiving day, the Plaid 111 meet a powerful what appears to boPitt eleven, i
; decisive defeat i season. Tho i possible
tbe last end for the Tartans only apparent hope Eoi upset in this contest, may come from the fact that the Panthers meet the undefeated Blg-Sis champs, Nebraska, next Saturday, while Carnegies gridders will get a breathing spell for a change. Pitt is fresli fittm a decisive triumph over the Army, 29-6, ^nd should the Impetus continue through next Saturday, only the gods know whatmight happen when the valiant Scots take the field.
Us spirit evidently hopelessly broken Q6 a result of a defeat at the bands of tbe Plaid, Purdue lost its third straight game to a medicare Wisconsin team, 8-0. Notre Dame, another one of the Sklbo opponents this year also went down iu defeat to Northwestern, 14*7. in one of the season's biggest upsets. N. Y. U. kept their slate perfectly unmaiTed with defeats and trounced a weak C. C. N. Y. squad to the rousing toune of 45-0. Although unbeaten so far this year, the Violets can hardly be considered Rose Bowl material, having wou most of their games from comparatively weak elevens.Duqueene, confident after their victory over Carnegie, traveled way out WeBl to Oklahoma and stowed the great-divide boys un-0-0 barrage.
Holy Cross Crusaders 
Down Plaid in Closely 
Contested Game, 7-0\
First Period Drive Gives 
Winners Score; Plaid 
Air Raid Fails'
FRYER LOST TO TEAM 
WITH BROKEN LEG
Matelan Runs Eighty Yards; 
Intercepted Pass Ruins ' 
Chanccof Score
 By Ed Mulligan.The game at Worcester .against Holy Cross on Saturday was like uothing' else so much as the Duquesne-Tech game at the Stadium a week ago. The score was the same, 7*0, Carnegie-nearly scored twice and the gsmewaswonin the Qrst quarter. Tho only difference was the fact that the Sklbos came closer to the promised land than they did in the Duke game. In the secoud quarter Jerry'Matelan, who deserves orchid's for his consistently good gains, broke loose after In* tercepting a pass deep in his own territory and burned up about SO yards before he was thrown, - Ou the next two plays the plaid advanced to tho Holy Cross'two yard, line. With the downs at three and two yards to go for a touchdown, the' general staff crossed thei
if the play had workeu it would
Tartan Harriers Register 
Wins Over Pitt, Bethany
Pinkerton and LyngheimIfncrg,' 
Takef irst and Third 
Places for Plaid
the finish line by a wide the time of 24 minutes 19 .seconds.
The. team is relatively inexperliced as three sophomoresPinkerton, Miller, and Lyngheimhave
I five 1
the Plit Junior Varsity squad, 26-30. | last years plebee.the four and one-half mile course around the Panther Hollow Lake . and across the Schenley Park Golf Course. The start of the grind saw Connelly of Pitt take the lead over Flagstaff Hill, but as the pack descend ed into Schenley Park, Pinkerton, Lyngheim,  and McMahon of the Sklbos moved up fast to lead the Panthers. Pinkerton took the lead around the lake and never was !iede2 ssiTi r.flalshing.ths: .course in '24 minutes and 32 ' seconds. Follette of the Pitt Juniors was the runner-up as Lynghelnts bid for second place fell short. The remainder of the first ten finished as follows: McMahon, Tech; Connelly, Pitt; -Pomers, Pitt; Luncher, Pitt; Captain Babin. Tech; Miller, Tech; and Cillette, '
Honest Prlce6 Faithful Promises
FORBES CLEANING & TAILORING CO.
4526 FORBES STREET r Craig -MAyflower 9728
out a -score.Holy Cross invaded the Plaids touchdown territoryearly in the first quarter. The Crusaders marched from their own 36 for the tally, and showed a good brand of
for. the .greater part of the first half and some.of the second wa:s played in the Holy Cross terri- Spisak' kept the boys from Worcesterma'ss Ui hot water msst the' afternoon by some well-placed
the :.^eak - side.strategy fell upon the pass idea at thtei point, and arched one into the waiting. arms of a* delighted H. C..Matelan Saves Score.Soon after this the . Crusaders made, a stand" for a score, but Matetlan made his timely  interception and run to (he homo teams ten yard stripe. A short time before the Rosentbal-Matelan combination. which worked bo well .In the Puvdue game, clicked and gave
Spisak kicked
The eecondhalf was slower. The Holy Cross punting improved and
spirit of the game during the socond half but were stopped Just short of the score several times by the rallying Carnegie ^Jefonse.Harry Fryer, who has been playing back for Carnegie,. will ] than likely .not appear in the performance. While backing, up the
Boxing Squad 
Starts Work
Rifle, Swimming Teams 
Prepare for Meets 
In Near Future
. Carnegie's boxing team, very ably coached .by Ernie Sesto. will begin workiug out this week. All candidates' both varsity and freshman, are asked to nee Mr. Sesto as'soon as possible this week. It is still a little early for the boxiug season' with its meetswith Pitt, West Virginia, aud the other colleges of the district, but tho team must 6tart now to get in the best of condition. Carnegies prospects' for the season are good with -Brooks Ely^ Wisniewski aud others of last years ace leather pushers back for the team in spite of the :fact that Bill Kulese, the star of last year haB graduated, in the
become Ineligible. The
ago the team broke the range record by shooting a score ot 1,382 out 
of 1,600. s 
The vars-.ty swimming squad has also been practicing for several weeks and the prospects good In this line.changes to the compottors in each event and Coach Risedorph has hopes of
are being made s
highly
successful season with a better balanced team than has been presented for Borne, time. ________
MARTZ LINES 
Express Bus Service
Boston , ClevelandNew York Akren
Detroit South Bend
Low Fares Everywhere
School RcpreacnUtlroc Downtowns '^Frank B^Kreldcr^ ^M>rU'Do Depot
tKIBO INN
5100 Margaret Morrison Street
e Delicious Bretkfast, Lunch and Supper e Soda Grill Service
Under -Management of
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOMForbes Street and Oakland Avenue..
Women's Athletics
s By Margie Green
Exlra! Extra! Cow-glrl Fuller, haiUug from way out West, where Worses ttn> household pets, alighted
to herself. Without a .word of warning there she was,'sprawled on one ear, with the horse nearby in an equally embarrassing position. . That night she appeared at a rushing formal wealing I lovely midnight blue eyeshadow directly beneath the left eye. It blended beautifully with the deep flush ot her cheeks, which could have been causcd - by n few revealing scratches, and then again, by u general all-around razz. Just for spite, however, she Is snvieusl? covisludi iug learning .the art of jumping for a horqe show at South Purk.
Everybody out for Field Day ou Wednesday, from 3:30 till 6: SO. If you can't be a sportster, you can always be a spectator, which Is more fashionable, anyway. Pi It freshmeu will be gueets of .the Sophomore hockey team. .
The following day, Just as an example of a quick return, our team will play the Pitts on their own ground. Lets hope It breaks up that liaBty moral victory habit of our big brothers of tho gridiron.
ly, Joan Coon/Sla Vilsaclr, and-Sue Lloyd, all cutting up.frogs in blology lab dnriug' the climax  of the gamfe, the mostoffectlyp playing concentrated, by necessity,-in the defensive, which well -deserves commendation.
What with outdoor sports fading uway with those glorious Indian . Summer days, basketball - audbowling will soon prevade the atmosphere. If you favor'basketball, report to Betty Kenny on Thura^ dny..at itlier 12:SG. 0r i';3i>, In tho . Assembly Room, 103.- Bowlirig developments will follow within a short time.
Rifle reportlast Tuesday was the final day for sighting aud aiming practice. In tho meadtime, "Surge" Sommers lias been eliminating for his fi'0shmau;team. His teudorCoot clus^of last year,' the - first of Its kind In tho rlOe world, .did lilm proud" by their splendid record. It Justified his theory that. - -yone ahould be glvoa her
> accommodate the surplus.talent.
YOURBALWAYS SURE \ 
OF A WELCOMB. BUT 
FOR GREATEST .PLEA
SURE ANDLOrCSTCOST, 
CALI, AFTER 7 P. M.
tour time is _
family * at H - ^ Calls.)
apply m many St _____a
Teams Prepared for Action 
By Coaches in Both School 
For Big Struggle
Pending game, will see the 'iechs U their worst of a slow season and the Pitt bowl without evu th cheer leaders. To qute Mr. Harptter, who has been following the Tartans for sme time but can never quite catch up with them,  . . the boys ain't'feeling good lnt^we'11 try to keep the -score ninety . points.*'
Pending Coltltch, as. the gentry Puta it, 1b nobodyb setup,' the_ cream of the crop. ' They ,haven't let a game so far this yearIn |[*ct, they havent even played a 1 this year. What a backfleld can kick and pase and run and and double and redouble vulnerableboy,- are-we for it! Ever since that memorableday that. Pending upset Prlnclpia 78-77. they bave had at least  two All-Amerl; 01)8 ou every selection in thecountry. "Our boys are this best at money can buy, asserts Hoh-stSr -Pendisg -- m&Tiiior<
own as Honest Joe to thefans JJ1 newspapers hut -who is juat' west Joe to his boya. This year uit Pendlngs ran amufck. amidst *<i amoiig the. Knox Corsalrs who ave been beaten by everythingIn. Jight including the Lydia E. Plnk~ Institute. In-one game the; lost so muchground, that the Graduate managermade them buy ,eat3 m the .end section. What a iquad-what.colorl. ...._ Mr. Nick Popoulopopoulosovltch, ^Ila Tau . Delta: social fraternity.  the social -lionN> of the FieldHouse, said lo re the'<arce; Dayfer day, week after, week, month iter month, dav after day. decade wter decade.'-  we're  after money, ^Etter'i(ri^>lVh'a\'al3byr'aiia' 
good to his mother?:whoo.;Pending .line outwelghtsthe **rtan forward fence'20 to;l in the ^ater book wlth no dlacount for At quarter it appeatstoWPending .by seven,- Carnegie.-.by.i
___;
i wo and body by Fisher. The standlug of the teams at present is practically horizontal with Cincinnati, Richmond Hill and. McGill Hall all leading the field by two
The beet bet of the day is Carnegie. x-l-x. .,For selections at Jamaica see the edltorjal page..Weather----clear; track  fast;
horsesphooey.

---------------------------------------------------

arhe Camene 3Tarfau
PHONE UATFLOWER !
 PuWl(ihed; wiickIy dorlng the eollejre E by thouadrsndUtos .f Cameni Institute r Tectanolojry. Entered lu lie
: Soto iid exoluaiv National Advertising RepreienUtlvej NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE. INC.420 Madison Avenne. New York Cllr CWcaeoBostonSan FranciscoLo An Portland
- Assignment Editor.
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Robe PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: Jair. EXCHANGES: RoeemttfT B. PieCIRCULATION MANAGES: A.TYPISTS; - Mary Lou Schlmr.STAFF ARTISTS: C. Sw Fuller, Robert Roblaoi 
JUNIOR EDITORS^ LoulM. Batdy, Alpha Blorl 
t&hre?tjel8. Albert Schv?Shear. Jo 
SPOTTERSCralp, Wfttlir ElUs, Betty Flehe ' Kutn iXHaocrg-, oectr Jane Herold. Rar Kaiman,' Kiussbacher, Mildred Kbarfeo, Faul l^nls.
SSiXSSb uk vcm6w2
SPORTS STAFF; EdwnrdLrnghclrc, William SbtE'te
Peace Scores a Victory 
In Fridays Mobilization
T
HEmobilization for peace", meeting on 
Friday marked a complete breaking away 
from the tactics of Union Square and the at
mosphere of .Hyde Park -which have character
ized the demonstrations of other years.
Handicapped.by lack of time and delayed by 
administrative restrictions. ,the committee is to 
. . be congratulated on ;the success of a truly 
1 worthwhile, and orderly meeting dedicated to 
.th cause-, of peace. For peace will emanate*
 only from education based upon solid facts 
rather than on will-of-the-wisp oratorical out
bursts.
We all want peace and we have no desire to 
?.be sacrificed by* selfish interests ip a ucientifically-arranged slaughter. War.; makers-are cow' ,ards and will shrink before the ever increasing
volumes of protest emanating .from college 
halls. .
--V; Fridays meeting affords a convincing way 
; of bringing war and peace before the undergraduate body which is much to be preferred 
to the spectacular, emotional demonstrations, 
strikes, ;and parades. The manner in which 
most, peace meetings are conducted arouses 
the. more conservative sectors of student opini^ ion to. active opposition. The Carnegie mobili-.-iistAt.mn.wes ndt -snch a meeting; '
When downtown Communists tried -to take 
! over the mobilization mcetbig they provoked 
; .,the only unfortunate incident in the program.
Their actions, in trying to muscle in where they 
- don't belong, selling on the.campus their emo
tional tripe for childish minds, and campaign,' ing under the false colors , of . pacificism bodes 
-no good for-the future youth of Americav-Gery >tainly it is;of no benefit to the cause of peace 
to; rnsh madly about promoting, strikes and 
spreading trashy literature about the R.O.T.C.
: : Agents of that group of : downtown Com
munist chiselers should have been thrown off 
th; campus in no gentle manner.
- ;We Hope for An
. . Eternal Armistice
S
EVENTEEN years ago wholesale murder 
was terminated; the Armistice was signed.
 .' The masses wept and sobbed for joy, the 
 .. streets were thronged-.with hysterical mobs, 
but far away in France fields of silent, ghastly 
' T~.;..silent mobs lay; they could not celebrate their. 
'V'-'TOCtbry, their gaining of peace. Dead soldiers, 
vior: what had they traded their lives? For 
V, filthy land, for idealistic mens rights. 
,P'>;Mens rights? What are they to-those who lie 
. cold and still? What is land, freedom and vic;. tory to mangled, distorted beingsf Nothing 1 .'
The Armistice is not the da;y in which we 
 celebrate-the victory of 1918. We .must re*. 
.. v member that, ; Rather it is an annual resolu. tion for eternal peace. But each year takes us; 
.,;-;:.=-;farthe"r away from .the horrors1 of the Worlci 
: War; the gore, the sbrrow,. the .awful-messy 
. .massacre have been softened by> time and: a 
mist of forgetfulness. Again themonsterr 
\v-rWar, has appeared. Pushing his way. through. 
^ .f.Vgraves, shattered homes,, the results of his 
-rework, depression, he stalks boldly over the 
i y v earth. And we, the people, seeing, him, criuge;. 
.:v:rvstact. fearfully and cry out, Oh God-, not 
S^.againl /Dont let. the generation:.oUowing suf-' 
.;.;fer:aa we. Dont break their hearts, tear their 
^'/bodies, kill them. Peace! We must have 
^Pe.ace I But to cry out is futile, to weep is in 
;> v yiin;. Action, thoughtful, slow preparation for.
peace is our solution. And each Armistice Day 
v\iwhen parades march by with drums beating,
- iflags waving, weary, broken soldiers keeping 
:Sii' step : to the rhythm of death music, , we must;
: : bow our. heads in shame for the wrong we. com. mitted m 1914. We, the youth of today, nrast < 
v ^disregard the thrilling throb ofthe band, the 
V^catch t our-hearts as the Stars and Stripes-. 
"> vgo':by; < . . emotion must be..killed by the 
thought of cold, white crosses, unseeing eyes, 
v. pitiful cripples._. __
~ Couldnt peace, not just ior'.^o'day^trt'ioifi 
:: ^allatiiney be settled by the woriings bf. the 
not the stabbing of our men? It. eould 
;.^:^t^.must-! / We-, .commemorate v Armistice Day 
SiJW^lesit^e' forget, .VMay _our generation; pave .the . 
^i^va^fdt anVeternal armietice 60 that our' chil; iwvitlrea; will; by our work; be  absolved" from the':. 
6>; ^Uursh, ruel memories: branded^ on our souls by 
;i: 'the;>World War, the bloody, fruitless slaughter: 
_pf^l4! _____
ipj>e8the.Sorority_Ru8hing
^SyalemNeedaRevision?;
-T^TERSORIT-F. council allows each .Carnegie 
^l^JsororityLto spend^lOO for; the>purpose~of 
rushing.
eyery girt, and carry on all the other activities, 
of rushing on $100.
This same opinion is expressed by a majority 
of the girls in reference to the other sororities ; 
and their, doubts are well founded. -For sev
eral sorority siters will gO so far as to admit, 
that they exceed their budget in rushing 
expenses. % '
And' what are the results of this over-spend
ing? This year the average. Fine Arts sorority 
pledged only six girls, whereas the larger .so
rorities in that college have usually been 
pledging 10 to 15 new members. ' Obviously 
there is something wrong with the rushing'sys
tem. If th sororities are forced to.exceed 
their expenditure allowance, and yet are not 
able to pledge more tbAn a handful of fresh
menwc wonder if it is worth while.
The benefits and advantages that sororities 
give college girls must be acknowledged. But 
if the sororities are to exist as smoothly func
tioning organizations, all irregularities must bedone away with. .A revision of the rushing 
system and budget allowances seems necessary.
As to my candidacy for the presidency1 
wouldnt have it or any political office.' I 
dont want to have anything to do with poli
tics and I don't want politics to have anything 
to do with me.Henry Ford.
- TIME
"Time and tide wait for no mao. True, yet we race through life with-hands outstretched, trying to grasp more minutes, more hours, more years, while Time only smiles, end quietly, almost imperceptibly eludes us.'What man or woman bae not longed for "a little longer? Man is powerless to satiety that longing, for Time has ao elasticity; be.Is.doled out to us In specific measures, and we can'do with, those measures only what we will. If at the end of our lives we bold out our souls, and
to fill that empty soul. Ho csme < did not entertain him to our fullest ability, and he is loo busy to return to ue.As we men and women thoughtfully and slow' ly write the last chapter in our life's book, we ' stop to leaf through the sections of our early existence. With delight, we discover childish, scribbled dreams; farther on we come upon a page much labored over, crossed out, rewritten, the chapter of rbewildered adolescence, and then there is the chapter 'in which is written our adult failures, joys and pains. It brings us again-to the finis. Deliberately we close the book; impulsively we .cry out In anguish, "Time,, turn, back! I bave read, my unfinished biography and whole paragraphs bave been omitted. There is a page on beauty I meant to include, and while the chapter on .ambition'and .caBtte building Is quite complete, the one. on attainment; is still only a rensh draft.. But -Time., rushing oo. heeds us not. He cannot bearjus;
whispered In our ear, "Make., the most of me while ye. may.- I. am. prefclous; to waste me 13 folly." We heard-her words,..even jotted them downId' our/mental-, memorandum, onlytofor-'' get'them, for alt of life-stretched out'before us such a long, long life, but ababy is like a .weed, he shoots up with unbelievable rapidity, and lfefore we are aware of itNo! No! Half of life can't be over and gone! It is,where was time? He walked so quietly and unobetruaively ahead of us that we never heard, or saw . Surely, we -believed; we had left him. be-hlnd; he would never, catch up to iStrange,all the time he had been one step beyond.  we bad been tarrying, for. we were so sure that even If tomorrow .came, our companion,. Time, would never be able .to find us.  -Who has not said;. "Some day I mean to take; time to read that book. or./'Tomorrow i.muetbe kind to people; they are .lonely aa' I am," or perhaps-When I am older I ahall do something of note, but today I am-.really too-young to attain .fame or praise? WeVare .so .sincere,
attainment. Seldom do we realize. that  today ' is a. part .of tomorrow'; It is the cornerstone for the .whole-building 6f tomorrow. We cantiot know that; Time does, but he Is silent in his . wisdom. He only -shalceB his head, hurries on, -and 'leaves us dreaming; . \-vI want more time,, we who lag, cry out;-and . Tlme.-calla back to us 'as he journeys'-on. Man and woman, procrastination Is - a thief; -she steals ae from .you. .KJ11 her and yon'shall
JANE ELLEN MASON:.
THERME OP .THE ANXIOUS STENOGRAPHER
Aud staggersInto'. SJribo 'For .a bit of sympathy And there across, a-eteamlng cup c. She told* this  tale to me.
She held me by her gliiterlug eye The tremble In her hand;And said, in a despairing cry, . "Where Js the amper sand?1* ;
With'.fieiy zeal, sh hit.the keys  Juat like Rachmaninoff...
The solse was here, the noise was th< The noise was all aroand.' The: rasping rattle -ot the-keys Surmbuutedeverysbund.
"ftowV first'of all, tUe teacher, said)', "Rmember tp'.he -neat;,: '.She. typed a perfect exercise And. thenshe tore the.vSheet. .
. A.thousand-fingers seemed to.-.pound A ,rhythm1 in ^er head. , .
' And.Jilt the. Vy^'. instead.-:
The tlin wias. flying quickly: by^ ; Her -ha lie dld' not-Hft '.  , - 
: ButVeat and^cOncentrated .lopg ;- .:;On^W:;.t*o.htrthvshift.' .U : -
siBsarchedtthe keyboard frantically . ror-th'eTntseIng ampersand.; "
-.iThvoelLhad rung; ;the-class, haa gone;'"^''''~.B.the; nly.;one 'r' '"'v
jom tt mayhheewsila '-.Tuit-eyn-.w.hen excited,' 'aly_ays v-: S  Mlndiyouri?ip!a' and-.,,q?s,p' v-v -. '
/ And when^you are on aniry seas " ;vOt indecIiloni-toaEed, - Rmember^the:old>maximi "He who hestitatee Is lost" 'Marlon-G
News Review of Current 
Events the World Over
Various Stale and City Elections Give Cheer to Both 
PartiesXreece Votea for Restoration 
o{ King George II.
By EDWARD W. PICKARD
DEPUBUCAiiS Bbuuted ' km ill v ^ that the victory of their party 
lu the New'York. state election was 
a terrific blow to the New Deal andI
bb e - repudiation, ofm President R o o a'em. velt. The . pemo-Wk  crats ' Ueclared It||j was no sncb thing.^ James A. Farley,^. who la both nationa al and state-chalr-g/j - man of tbeDemo-^ -crats, gave them
their: cue. when - lie
^ declared recopiure
J A Farlev of controlof. the j. A. Farley legl6)atnre by ,^
O. O. P. was normal and that the Democratic vote for assembly 
candidates taken ns a. whole ex
ceeded the Republican vote by more thnn half a million, wbich.was 
something of .an exaggeration. '
The . Democratic organlzatioa In New York came through strongly 
and menaces, the prospect of a reelection for Mayor LaGnar.dla,. ob
servers hold. The Fusion forces, which turned Tammany out two 
years ago, crumbled. .
In Philadelphia S. Davis. Wilson, 
Republican, was elected'mayor-but the vote was dose enough for the 
Democrats to call lt~a virtual-vie-, tory; for the New Deal. Cleveland, 
Columbus and 23 out-of 42 other 
cities and towns in .Ohio cbose-Republlcan mayors, and so did n.number of municipalities in Massacha*. setts. Socialists of Bridgeport,, Conn;, 
re-elected Jasper McLevy mayor,.and 
Democratic mayors were returned In Hartford and New Haven.1 Re-, 
publicans gained control of the New Jersey leglslatore, but Hudson 
county,^Including Jersey City, went 
Democratic by a record vote.
Results in the spectacular elec
tion InKentucky gave the New 
Dealers a real reasoD for rejoicing, for A. B. Chandler, known as "Hap
py, the Democratic candidatefor governor who had. the support of 
.the national administration,' handi
ly defeated Judge King Swv&e,% the 
Republican nominee. This despite the fact that Democratic Governor Lafoon had , declared - himself 
against Chandler ' and threw his 
support to Swope. The referendum oxi repeal' of the state prohibition 
amendment gave the repeallsta a good .majority.  \ :
/In. Virginia and Mississippi'1 ail the Democratic, nomineeswere 
elected, tvhlcb was to be expected.
T^TACBTENZIB KDiQ, the new 
: ^ *  prime minister ofCanada, was In .. Washington : negotiating with 
President.- Roosevelt a -reciprocal lrade.sgreemeDt between: the United. States and the Dominion. Comple
tion.of such a treaty was one ofthe 
planks of . King's recent electionpisxfufin.- .
Canada buys more from the United States tlinn. any other country, and America, -in turn, Is Oanadas 
best customer.' Last year America exported, goods worth $302,000,000- 
to Canada and Imported goode 
worth 231.000.000,' These totals compare with 1929 totals, of S&4&- 
000,000 and $503,000,000 . rcspectlvely.
were pushing further and fur ther Into his.realm,-Emperor Halle 
Selassie 1 of Ethiopia.celebrated the
I
-.IMii . anniversary of hiscoronation,' -.and he did It In fine style, too. Escorted 
 by. a throng -of 
: fe'ndaliChlefs In bar
baric a 111 r e, the
'klng< ot kings and
through; the streets^of ..Addis Ababaamid - wildly. cheer-.'
_ ,,  Ing.thousands, andSftiSLil save thanks to God' Seiaasle . lQ SL George-8 ca.
thedral. Afterward, seated on his 
Ivory a&d teakwood throne 'ln the palace, he received' the felicitations 
of the cbleftalos and the-dlplomatlc'
TJILLY SUNDAY, the spectacular " -evangelist ' whose fiery elo, 
quence. led many thousands M '*'hlt the aawdust trair. to Uie altar andseek ealyatlon, died, ftf heart diathe land as "Ma, was with 
hlig at the end and said Billy, died 
09 be bad ajtvays wished, suddenly. Mr.. Sunday, who-was almost 
seventy-three years of age, was a 
professional ball --player ' In bis 
youth. He was converted In 16SG and In 1003 was. ordained a Pres
byterian minister.'
- One of Americas leading scientists, Henry Fairfield-Osborn, died 
In New York.at the age,of seventythree years. He was eminent In 
many branches of science end was 
sometimes called ,Hthe successor-to Darwin and Huxley. For years he 
was tbe president of the American Museum or Natural History.
huge majority, le monarch willCKing , 
George II
In his recall by a huge majority, and before long the 
be back
throne be abdicated 12 years ago. The 
vote In favor of the restoration 
most unanimous, 
even In Crete, the 
birthplace of the publican lead 
Venlzelos, who Is 
now in exile' and under sentence 
death.
As the results of .the balloting came In, . Premier George_ Kondylls ap
peared. od the balcony of a govern
ment building and announced-;. "As of tomorrow, King Ceorge II will 
be king of the Helleoes. There will be no political parties. They 
have been broken up by the people 
themselves and a new epoch of r& construction will BtarL
SOVIET Russia celebrated the eighteenth anniversary of the 
Bolshevik revolution witha tremendous display'of its armed strength In Moscow. Infantry, ' cavalry, 
tanks and&U the oiher army services .mnrched for hours  past the 
tomb of Lenin, where stood Joseph H. Stalin and* other leaders to revlew.the long parade.
The executive committee of the Communist Internationale published 
-an appeal to'-workers-of. all conn-tries-to join-hands to force an;end to Itnlys war In Ethiopia, protect 
-the Chinese people from invasion, ward off danger of wnr ln Europe 
and bring about a downfall of Fas. Greek. Notes
- Delta Beta chapter of Della Tau 
Delta' Invites the: fraternities and 
sororities of Carnegie Tech to open house dance lo be held Saturday' evening; November 16 at the Delta. Shelter, 630 Clyde st Tommy Barrett and his orchestra .will provide the dance melodles-and entertainment. . The dance friendly gesture of goodwill ai Is hoped that this and similar af'.'The-Mothers Club of Delta Tau Delta held a; very successful luncheon and bridge-party at the house' last Thursday : afternoon. There were over a hundred guests present. - Armistice Day. will find . the Delts dusting oS their battered football equipment in preparation for the mighty clash with th Architecte. 'Many an astonished pedestrian
these college boys. Those flashlights in Schenley Park Saturday, night, couples peering under tables at Isalys, men. prowling cautiously around the. windows of Minnie of dorm 'renownthey were all part of The Pi K A. Treasure Hunt. -BouteUe and Co. got the prize with McKee, Skewla, and Ryehanek very close seconds. -Pledge Skewls got .a. lot of information about odd names, and fire plugs which witl stand in good stead during the approaching Hell Week. Activities start. Wednesday. 13 th and finish with the formal initiation on the 17th. The Pi K. A. Mothers Club will talk It over at a bridge iuncliThe Parade of th Pins!
EVERY MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY
NEXT!! .......:~r.
... v-........ .Delta Tau Delta
...... . .Phi Epsilon Pi
. i. v.... .Lambda Cbi Alpha
November 13. 
November 18. 
November 20.
with KAY KYSER
His Music ... Funsters . . .
Singers . . Novelties . . . His ........
Youthful Versatile Band .
Enjoy a Great Night ..;.. Whit 
Supper Dancing ! 11
THE nHaTTERBOX
Minimum Check $1.00
HOTEL WILLIAM PENN
HANGOVER
THE MILITARY DEPARTMENT 
presented, .their supreme tactical 
problem Friday evening past with 
the Military' fracas 
Lyons furnished the taps and all 
of the boys and their lassies tried 
turning movements all over Thistle 
Hall . . . Colonel McKee and Roseman Carsen would have ledthe dress parade if there bad been . . . The DragoDs entered tbe hall in  line of squad columns Majors Lord and Shultz with Bob Croyle and Kenny . ... led tbe list '. . . Marg Fitzgerald-had a line ot scouts-out all evening tracking down BUI Holiday . . . (One week Gilmore, next week Van Vslkenburg, this week Gilmore again) Voutrlnot paraded around ' with Carl Dozer and Heln . Jane Doughitt . . . even the Tartan shut up shop and gave a free Friday evening to Boutelle and Betty Ralston . . . Dick Hammond resplendent with full dress uniform escorted Mi6s Bateman as usual . . . Bob Greiner was with Helen McCrea as Is his custom . . . The Sue Carter-George Kittredge combination were there, as were Rip Van-Valkenburg with Margie Gibson and George Rial of the Finance Dept.Practicallyeveryone rated a corsage . . . even the DragonB managed to scrape enough. together to adorn their feminine sidekicks as well as IhemselveB . . . and gardenias at that . . . Kitty ColTlernan and Alberta McClure sue Whity Lamberston and Louie Johnson respectively . .  the beautiful Miss Wettach wee in the hands of Mr. Burke again . . . D. U. Latham and.Kappa Phi Delta Filler in attendance . . . Captain Hank -DeH&ven was with Si SiberUch . . . and there wbb Tom Lord and Dodie Taylor, Bob ' Crispen and Glnny Mathews, Harry Shan-sides
eon at Rosenbaums, 12:30 Friday 15th.Alpha Phi Delta and its Duquesne chapter will have a general get-together and dance for alumni and actives at the Hotel Schenley this Friday. Joseph T. Gemml. BOcial chairman of the Tech' chapter la In charge of arrangements.An informal dance at the A. 7.-0. house will be held in honor, of Ercthcr. Ackley: Congratulations the nice speech before the presentation of the honorary commissio at the Military Ball.Tau Delta Phi seems to be having a lot of fun with its public adthe program. Mr. and Mrs. Moskovltz were faculty guests.Phi Kappa will be the gnest of the Mu chapter at the dance given .for their homecoming game with Army. Pitt, ..Tech.' and Penn State actives were royally entertained by Kay Kaiser at the 'Chatterbox Phi Kapnite. The presence of the
Several West Point - cadets their Beta Theta PI brothers thanks for dates that were furnished for Saturday. '
The D. TJ. house is having a formal dinner and dance on Friday 15th, for the brothers and dates. Heywood Broun, a D. . TJ. brother and columnist was.greeted by welcoming delegation from  the house' when he arrived in Pitts burgh last Friday. - The Beta Sigs will follow an informal . house dance Friday 15th with a party for actives and alumni (and dates') on Monday 18th. Chairman Louis. Felsteln Is directing the preparations.
Gerber ... The Glbson-Yorke combination attended ... as did the McAvoy-Bruggeman one . .  Delt Mitchener was. with Alice Phllpot, Hank Lehne was with Marg Wilson, and Bill Miller was with the. new freshman .-sensation 
Marvel Whiteleatber . . . Johnnie Morton rated Ann Bortz while Toby Beta Cross jlid tbe same with' Tom Koehlers sister. Bobby . . . Mr. and Mrs. Simmon, Lus former Jayne Henderson, came back for another dance . ... and found one. The Scabbard and Blade pledges for the most part looked like the second draft . . . look what the absence of twenty . dollars does of the boys' adjourned to
JUST AS THE ARTS RUSHING season ends the Margaret Morrison, party starts . . . The girls
BEE ARCHER IS WALKING around with her head in the air .- . . they got the most pledges and only bid about thirty . . . nice work . . . Rumor has it that, the Beta-Pis and the Alpha Kaps ge after' Christmas
adorned the Doublemint gum advertisement in the-Black Cat . .  attracted more attention from the uniformed sex than the ''honorary cadets did themselves.
WHAT SORT OF A waiting Job is this that Dave Walthour and-Jim Fox bave? It is reported that-the
gie Murph but Jumpin'' Joe. declined. "Goosey Joe is rather touchy about the way he got the name "Jumpin."
rived at the Si'buuley he *>as-quite worried about his Clarathe ka* dets were thore. Incidentally, Sharp Is 'still loking for his emCLEO AND TONY CAN'T TAKE
Seibo Scoops
MOVIES REPLACE ANNALS
Moving pictures, instead ot ihku heavy books . and. periodicals soon 1 placed in the TJ,,)' of California library to tempt I search workers. 
The 'University is arranginB ,n have a Recordak machine insUit^ in the library .within a few month, for the use of research studem This machine makes reproduc^-5, 
of records, reports,, and news, pers from small films. The at paratus is stationed three roa. above-tue bead of the user and r fleets 'its pictures on a little tabL before the person. . The pictuw! can be seen with a fairly w amount of light so it will be m, ble to take notes. ^8S1-
The machine will save the v brary the expense of binding anir 
bousing bulky . periodicals, and it also offers a means of more easily preserving the frequently UBJ periodical material. Tho Jibrari has been able to -purchase the com plete Recordak films of the LLHI code, hearings which have nsv7 been in'book fdrm.
BIOGRAPHICAL EDUCATIONGeorge Washington University!, offering a course entitled "Rem eentatlve Americans. Approii. mately 200 famous Americans niii
IT WAS SAID THAT the glamor
ous Myrna Loy could have doubled 
for Miss PDlly.Rowles in her mate 
up to play, the part of Cleopalrathe last three nights the boys stood 
through, the whole performance, 
just lo Bee. those georgeous eyeDID THE BETAS GET STUNG? The Squirrel.' Hill boys Inst -week let (at 25 cents a let) a travelling cartoonist transfer tiieir manly? profiles to sheets of cardboards, I corporatlng Ideas of his own. i cording to reports, the fellow wi none too kind to the ladB, with it. result that everyone appreciated everybodys caractlture except his
I WEDNESDAY B FR/OAY B SATURQ4Y MG
BME.~DANCE
FIRST and ONLY SHOWI
After 20 weeks in NewYork y^
TH&woRLD'S vaa TVi
ELIZABETH, 5* M
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE TICKETS AVAILABLE AT 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OFFICE
:-^Amioimug:
-A Double Mellow
OLD GOLD 
FOOTBALL CONTEST
OLD GOLD CIGARETTES OFFER 
FOUR PRIZES, AS FOLLOWS: 
FIRST PRIZETEN DOLLARS'
(Awarded to person guessing .the nearest 
to the exact score of all teams listed for tliat 
date.)
SECOND PRIZEFIVE DOLLARS 
THIRD PRIZETWO (2) CARTONS QF 
DOUBLE-MELLOW OLD GOLDS .
-RU
). ThTs' 6on'sX:.;ie 'tfp'w-tv a'y mwifrer. nf " Carnegie Tech.
2. Contestants are to register their.guesses en OLD GOLD paiekage label by wrltlnQ the .names of the six teams and' the scores, of each, together with his or her name* and'address.3. No.limit Js placed on.the number of tliiriee.a contestant may register.a guess.4. OLD GOLD package labels are to be de> posited'In ballot boxes located In WoodFOTTRTH PRIZEONE (1) CARTON OF 
DOUBLE-MELLOW OLD GOLDS ' 
These awards, will be'made in connection 
with the following* football games. The same 
awards for the date listed,
CONTESTNOVEMBER 28th
(Pitt-Teoh) (Catholic U.-North Carolmi) 
(Nebraska-Oregon State)
LES 
.. iawri'^Ph'arittacy/^'orbe'e" atreetr Or^a-Forbee. Pharmacy, .Sklbo Inn, Margaret Morrison Street, .
5.. Entries can only be deposYled until 1 PM.' of the-day'Of game, at which timeboxes. Will-be sealed and collected.
6. -The results of contest will be announced  In Tech Tartan. -Winners-may recede thelr'.awards; by .applying to Tech Tartan
In the event of &iest the contestant having the most OLD GOLD package labels deposited in ballotboxes toill receive the award.
_____

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TABTAN. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, IMS
The next issue of tbe Alumnus 
Page will be December 10than^tunuuts
Send news for this page to the " 
Alumni Office, Gymnasium
Dollar Day 
Inaugurated 
November 15
Contributions Necessary 
In. Drive to Receive 
58,000,000 Gift 
SOUVENIR FOLDERS 
SENT TO ALUMNI
Commemorate Anniversary 
Of Founder; Contain 
Carnegie Portrait
Every Class Is Represented 
At Homecoming Observance
Five Hundred Alumni 
Reunite on Campus; 
i resent Plate
In connection with tbe celebra
tion of Carnegie Day throughout 
tbe United States and England on 
November 25, the annual Dollar 
Day campaign at c. IT. will be 
Inaugurated on November 15 and 
Kill continue to December 15.
Graduates, members of the ad
ministrative, Ifichlty and clerical 
staffs of Carnegie Tech, as well as 
tudents, former students and 
Irlends of the Institution ar< 
ine asked to give to the Carnegie 
Endowment Fund the sum of $1.00 
-or mere in order that the Dollai Day contribution this year may be a sum which we may truly proud to add to the Endowi Fund on the-occaslon of the world-wide celebration of the One-Hundredth Anniversary of Mr. CarneileB birth.
It is the earnest desire of the administrative officers of tbe Instllute and the Federation thatthe .contribution this year include1- donors than ever before. The Institute has before it. a task to iplishthe raising of, $4,000.000
may receive the $8.000,000 gift offered tbe college by the Carnegj' Corporation.
One dollar represents just on penny for each year since the Founder's birth. Gifts In Increased amounts will be most acceptable.Souvenir folders commemorating the One-Hundredth Anniversary, and bearing a copy of a portrait of .Tilr. Carnegie which Is hung in. the permanent collection at'the Carnegie Art Galleries,, are being this week to all alumni and staff members of the Institute of Technology, together with a request for contributions to the Fund. The -nameB, not amounts, of contributors will appear in the Tartan.
'Will yon let us have contribution early?
Send your $1.C0 to Ihe Carnegie Endowment (Fund In care of the Alumni Office. CI-T._______
The ninth annual observance of 
omecomlng under the direction 
of chairman R. J. Salsbury, 1717, 
and C. F. Borshneck, '10, gave 
the 1935-36 alumni program a good 
send-off. Over five hundred alumni gathered to spend tho week-end of October 4 and 5, on the cat and'tov participate In the program "ranged for the occasion.Preceded by registration, the pri gram was formally opened by general alumni luncheon served s the Brown Honse. Following th_ luncheon the group, headed by the
presented by the Claes of 1935, and formal recognition was made of the reuning class groups10,
department for the enterlent of the alumni, at tbe close ot which they vlBlted places of interest on the campus.The alumnae and wives of alumni met at six oclock for dinner In the Commons and later played bridge In the Faculty Clnb Rooms.- The alumni dinner at the Hotel Si ley, was a most Interesting affair, and the men were privileged to have as guest speaker, Coi er James E. Isherwood, of the Department of Pennsylvania American Legion.Saturday's program included reunion class meetings, and the-TechNo^re Dame game at the Stadium;Tbe high point of the Homecoming events' was reached  In the Informal dance .and midnight breakthe largest and best attended alumni events held In Pittsburgh for the past three years.
ordsevery class graduated was represented at one of the Hoi ilng events. Our records Bhow
1909^-L. :
Cote'Dodds, 'William Findley, I, Edith Glenn, Mrs. Madeline Meese Hamilton, Mre. Mary M. Lewis, S.Little, Sara 'Williams Mundo, .David K. Reed, Marlon R.- Roecoe, Mrs. Mary Wrabley, Warren, Mrs, Helen Weis Wrabley;1911Mrs. C. F. .Borshneck, Mre. Mary Craighead Brlnton,Turkle Buente, J. -W. Dougherty,
ALUMNAE 
NOTES
1910The Anniversary Luncheon was held in tbe Pittsburgh Country Club on .Saturday, June 1st. - .On tl> Qccasion, .Misa-..Ju Ita y Morgan. Harding, Honorary Member of the class, was our guest Sixteen mem* hers were present, Including Helen Oursler Beatty of Bellefonte and Josephine Mandevllle Heaton .of Tacoma; Wshington. Tb?'lunchon was delightful In every way; no special entertainment had been planned, but all joined In reminiscing about the "good old days." and this feature was thoroughly enjoyed.
Charlotte Scbaffner Young entertained the class at the Fall Party on September 28th, at her home li
events were' ' there, whichV adtfed greatly to the pleasure ot the afternoon. We were sorry to have some of our faithful members absent and missed them keenly.
1911
A "diverting occupation" fa reported by Mrs. Louis Heyl (Elolse McMahon, A) who conducts the School of Dance at Dunkirk, N, Y.Dorothea Stelnmacher, A, received her M. A. degree in. Anthropology from the University of 
Pennsylvania in June, 1934.1921 ' . '
Mary F. Murdoch, A returned Carnegie Tech this fall as assistant, professor ofArt Education. Miss Murdoch had been assistant pvofeesor of fine arts at the Uni* versity of Georgia.
501 Liberty Building, Pittsburgh,
Ohio.
1926Mrs. Amy Glassford Axelson, A, opened a studio of music at her residence in Youngstown, Ohio, last year.Word has .been received, from. Zula Brumbaugh, M, that' she Is working very hard at Johns Ho~ kins University, to o'btajniber ;Ph:J in Chemistry. - She. wouid: like;.'
Tech Mies Brumbaugh has done some special work In X-ray, and ' the present time 1b worfclng'on I research problem with Dr. Patrick at the University. '
1927-
Rebecta'-'Whitb'; M^hastaken^a secretarial' posiUon, with the Fitch 
Estate in Pittsburgh.'IMO T1928  ...
<A. short story, entitled -
Benjamin Hantman. 1912W. H. 
Buente, EPaul A. Edwards, Mrs. 
Jane Caldwell Harrold, David Hen
derson, J. IF. Laboon, Frank M. 
Keck, Fred Slgman.
1913J. E. Haines, Peter J. De* 
SIutlL 1SI4Mrs. William Finlay, 
A. Andrew Schneider, M. D. Scott. 
1915F. c. Ashe, J. (R. Cline, Edward Cdump, Walter N. Flanagan, Mrs. Lydia Bates Olock, Benjamin Hantman, R. J. price, Edwin S. Reno, IK. s. Stockdale. 1916 Wlder B. Ashworth, E. W. Barb.1917Mrs. Gail' Sellers . Fattke, Thoinas Ori\ Mr. and-Mrs. K. J. Salebury, and 1918Emerson Pugh.1919Mrs. Bernice KrugerThorpe, F. J. Nuttall. 1920I* T. Barry, J. D. Beatty, Mrs. Frances Wing Graham, W. j. Brennen, Mrs. W. V. Clark, G. R. Dobson, C. H. Gens, Mrs. Helen Marshall Hayes, J. Raymond Hawke, <Fred J. Helnle,H. ,D, Krummel, Mrs. Irma Friedman Markstein, Mrs. Elizabeth Buchele Obert, Mrs. Grace Butcher Pike, Carl C. Prlbek, Mrs. Ruth Edgln Pugh, Mary L. Rhoads, Mrs. iBabel-E. Thomas.
1921Walter J. Blenko, F. S. Bloom, Robert Dake. J. C. Keaney, C. F. McCormick, Mrs. Ruth Scott Perkins, Mrs. Amelia Schade Seibert, George w. Smith. 1922J. A. Jones, James E. King, Katherine Shuman. 1923Paul c. McKenzie, A. M. Ondreyco, MrS. W. AStickel.1924Howard Bowman, Earle F. Brown, T. R. Hinckley, T. N. Griggs, James Howard, Mrs. Mil* dred Lucas Kramer. Mrs. Vesta Cullers Lyman, Albert Mlnetti, Eleanor Rlesmeyer, Ellis Robertson, James ARobertBon, Mary Stolzenbach. 1926  D. Donald Foster, James M. Guthrie, R. L. Melaney, V. s. Mollenauer, Mrs. Mildred Patton Scott,  Harry N: Smith, Mrs. Mildred (Hlneman Toner.1926 George W. Dulin, Robert J. Hawke, Robert R. Young. 1927 Mrs. T. G. Blxler, Mary J. Ci
-Henry P. Bender, BA. Johnson.
ude S. Cameron, iRoger T. Ellis, Isobel S. Haines, Clyde C. Park, Elmer Scholz^, Charles Stott. O. S.
Alumni Page Will Replace Bulletin
Beginning Uila
first of June, 193$. The schedule of publication is as follows: December 10, January 14, February 18, March 10, April 7, May 6, May 26.
will be able to Bend out frequent alumni news than we would be able to by adhering to our former polled of a bi-monthly alumni-, publication. - ' The'Tartan will come, to you ich weeit* as' uBual. "r'1  - le issue containing alumni news' section.In the personal' columns of the new page we are using the
tries, AArts, and MMargaret Morrison.Make this page
the date of publicaAlumnae Tour 
International
Mrs. Robert Schmertz 
To Conduct Group
As the November event on tho calender of the C I. T. Alui soclatlon the Program Committee hasarranged' for e luncheon' and trip on Saturday afternob'n, .Novel
room of the Carnegie Museum 12:15 p.m. Reservations for luncheon must be made to Mra. Hayes at Locust 0814 before Wednesday, NoThere will be-not setA. Willis. 1932Paul M. Barlow. | charge for the luncheon.1933?Frances H. Brown, John A. Dlmllng. Janet Jamieson, James Leonard, I, F. IH. Meng.1934James Bacon, John Dlmllng. 1935Robert Busse, Frances Callahan,'Francis V. Glolma, AnneE. Ladd, Janes E. Miller, Sara H.
Those alumnae who cannot attend the luncheon, may join the group at 2:00 p. m. in the United States Room of the galleries..
University has found a i to crib. It seems that notes written on spectacles or watch-crystals grapefruit Uulce become visiblevhen breathed upon.
35 Graduates 
Work as Hard 
Times Lift
WhatAbout 
This Year?
Seventy-five Per Cent 
Of Last Graduating 
Class Employed 
MANY ARE PLACED 
BY ALMA MATER
Only Partial Placement 
LiBt in This Isiue-rBalance Next Month
According to the roports of the 
AJumnl-Student placement bureau, 
over seventy-live per cent of tbe 
members of the 1935 graduating 
classhave been placed. We bave
3 In this Issue for only a partial 
list of placements but will give yon 
In the succeeding issue, the bal
ance of the report;
- Chemical EngineersRobert H. 
Gerster, Firestone Tire &. Rubber, 
Co.; John A. Nevlson, Atlantic Re
fining ^.Co.; George L. Reymdn, 
Hazol Atlas Glass Co.; Robert B. 
Roberts, B. S. Goodrich Co.; 'Fred 
Rosenberger, Dr. James, C. I. T.
Commercial EngineersGeorge 
Anderson, Duquesne Light Co.; 
William F. Becker, Aetna Life In
surance Co.; William Goudy, Jr., 
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.; James 
Gibson, General Electric Co.; Kay 
Burns, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co.; 
Roger Burke. Goodyear Tire & Rub
ber Co.; George Goodrich, Proctor and Gamble'Co.; Robert C. Kelley, Carnegie Steel, Go. ; jjjliner Nagy, Brown Industries; Jamoa ' Sbarbougb, Mine Safety Appliances Co.
Electrical Engineers  Thomas Dana, General Electric Co.; Francis Glolma, Westlnghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co.; Glyde Glshel, Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.; T  'Goldfarb, West Peun PoRaymond Hanna, Westlnghouse Elect. Mfg. Co.
Mechanical EngineersEarl Beyer, Jones & Laughlln Steel Co.; William J. Brown, Taylor Instrument Co.; Wllll&m . Carenbauer, Johnson Bronze Co.; Charles Crede. Tau Beta. Pi Scholarship, M. I. T.; Fred. Dubin. Johnson Bronze Co.; OskarHkman, Professor Trinks, C. I. T.; LaMont McClincy, Union Carbon & Carbide Co.; Gordon Rodenberg, Johnson Bronze Co. William Stafford, Scott Paper.Co.
''Secretarial DepartmentMartha Salisbury, Pittsburgh Tube' Co.> Winifred Roberts, Aluminum Com pany of America; Marlon White Carnegie Steel Co.. Pittsburgh
By J. W. Dougherty
The membership campaign con
ducted last year adcjed about four 
hundred dues-paylng alumhl-to the 
paid membership, ot the jLlmuni 
b'odoratlon. The total is now 
bout sine hundred and fifty, x 
elusive of the group who have sub
scribed to life memberships and 
bonds.
A minimum of slxtoen hundred 
dues-paylng members Is necessary 
to support tbe Alumni Office and 
the normal activities of the Fed-; 
eration, nl that something ebe 
be done to bringi about Inid support and interest In tho 
association.
The Federation Board ot Direc
tors Is considering a different plan 
of alumni support known as the 
Alumni Giving Plan. This plan 
Is now in successful operation In 
most of the alumni organizations in 
thts country. Briefly, It provides 
for the elimination of dues and the 
substitution of annual ofterlugs 
based on the ability and the desire 
of the individual alumnus to con
tribute. The details of this plan 
t is used at other institutions 
being studied. If. it is deemed 
advisable to adopt it at this time, impaign will be organized during the present season.Reports from various centers II dlcate renewed activity lb the Carnegie Tech - dans. This is undoubtedly the outcome of the last membership drive. If the clans conduct a continuous campaign It would unquestionably result in their, beoomlng centers for Carnegie Tech alumni lor social functions and for the more serious business of advancing the interests of Carnegie Tech. . ,"In Union There Is Strength.
ry; in the Cellar, by Maxine Flnstferwald,.A,^appeared'In a recent isle of the Atlantic Monthly. 
Josephine McGrall, A, was one 
of eight , judges In the preliminary competitions of forty choirs In the
Frances Guy Johnson, M, la teaching .home economics in thePittsburgh'schpols........... -Tbanet Crldland, M, is located In New York City, at Lofts, 17 West Forty-second Street store.
1931 .Rebecca Cook, A, conducted sketching classes at the Memorial Art Gallery in Rochester, N. Y., this past summer. : Pencil and pen drawing, with out-of-door sketching trips to nearby points of interest were organized tor adult groups and classes composed of Miss Cook's pupils in the city schools. Marlon Danforttf, A, is teaching t at Burgettstown, Pa. .. .Rath. Goodwin,.. M* is -working with th -'Ste11 Home : EconomicsExtension Bureau.
1932Elizabeth Bsrey, M, resigned her position with Dr. Guild at C. I. T. to become registrar at California State Normal, California, Pa.
1633Candice Studebaker, M, Is teaching home economics at Midland,
______ . received :appointment to teach art in tl Pittsburgh city schools.Mary Bradstock, M. i
music at Brownsville, Pa. .
1934 Virginia-and-Ruth-Faclderand AnnettaBrenneman, all Arts grad: uates, wgre engaged this, summer to travel with Bill Station's orchestra. ihe singing trio which was formed on.the C. I.-.T. campus asked Jordan audition..with. Staffon .ia,JfertiBbujS.J:hi summer, got It, atid. were, immediately" offerd~ a~ 
contract.Leah Voegtley, M, has taken position
Economics ' in th Mary Lyon School and at Wildcllff Junior Col-lege,:Swartha'ore,-Pa.'
CANTON CLANThe last meeting of the Canto Clan was a com. roast, held at Lerchs Grove, south of Canton. About thirty members were present 
m- iThe >UnlveTsltf 'or TftxaB will-'In' time' become: the rlchest institution, 
of learning inthe world. It owns two million acres ot land that wU1
ALUMNI 
NOTES
1909Chancellor, E, was appointed assistant general superintendent of the Lorain works of the National Tube Company last April.
1912F. R. Rex. E, Is superintendent of the Logansport Division of th<
latest developments In the exploration for oil in Florida, before a St Petersburg, Fla., group recently.
1913Maurice Stubnitz, E, Is president of the Stubnltz-Greene Spring Corporation, located at Adrian, Michigan. The new company went Into production last > spring and : manu1 failures'springs;;-,for.- automoJul<> 
seats.Paul F. Murphy, I, is supervisor of the Pittsburgh office of the Federal-State Employment Service: He placed second in th examinations for chief ot the state-wide employment service. Mr. Murphy is. well fitted for this type of work, having been connected ' for sixteen years with the Business Service. Company of Pittsburgh.Edgar D. Lambert, E, sailed in September for Europe, where he will 'represent' the-' Underwood Typewriter Compatiy, on a tour of Germany, Switzerland,'France, and 
England.
1914E. H. Grotefend, E, Is general superintendent of the-Edgewater, N.
Grotefend reside Road, We:
1915
Mr. and Mrs. , 255 Winthrop :Eoglew.ood, - N. J.
/'f.tlw.lTom andLStel Enjineers.for
1935-
1916
the Federal HCusIng -Administration, was recently announced. :'Harry HoTellck. E. is a member of the' faculty of the Passaic County-Junior College, Paterson, N. J., where he instructsjn engineering drawing,- mechanicsi'andvBhysics.
1917  - - -Tom Orr, E, sends us the following  information regarding . Ralph Oliver Williams, E.: havewondered why we never hear from JerryI have jubt learned that he was severely wounded in the arm while fighting In the Grande -Montagn^ Sector., w^th the-; 2th DiTision efflt of Verdun As a result of his injury a blood clot formed and traveled to the bmln He 1b
burgh in 1934.
1918Rudyard Porter, E, moved to Minneapolis, Minn., in April, where he is ,in charge of the sales office' for the American Sheet & Tin Plate Company. His address is 304 Security :Bulld1ng. .
1920,. .Fabian R. Staley,..E, Is director, of the research laboratory of the Max B. Miller Company of Long Island City, N. Y.
1921-Charles H. Todd. E. is employed
present is located at Lyons; Kansas (P. O. Box 462).Charles M. Blackburn, E, Is doing engineering work tor P. R. Mallory & Company, at .Indianapolis, Ind.Dr. William J. Reilly, E, was appointed manager of the SouthwestjDiVision ,h. of the American icTy.^eaily 'last - spring;' esting to note that. Harper^ recently published Dr. Reillys book, ^Straight Thinking." Dr..Relilys ad1 dress is c/o The'American Weekly, 1270 Arcade Building, St. Louis,
William A. McGill, E,1s manager of sales in the. Industrial Division of the De Laval. Pacific Company. Mr. McGill was appointed to the___Francisco . office of the DeLaval Separator 'Companylast (February after' having .spent , seven years in the New York.division. , William R. Hamilton, E, Is superintendent of. System Operation
compltd' frlnfiig.'coVi'se' in-ifam? ily'case work at'the School of Applied Social Science of Wstern Reserve University in Cleveland, 
Ohio.',
1924Word*, hai been -received Trm X
Brothers, Inc . and of hls association with Pwel-Glbson Engineering Company,. Cleveland, .'Obl. His home address ' Is .1366. Andrews Avene,:LakewQd,;Ohlo.
1925Arsene RoUBBeau, A, thlid.' prize. '.rwintier.'1n the -Alle: eheny^County' Better Housing ComV mltte-Pitteburgh ' Press. Archltec; turai Competition.
1926Charles Connahan. I, has moved from the Veterans' Hospital at Aspliiwalli .Pittsburgh, Pa., to Whipple. Arizona^ and-'would be pleased hear' fromjhjs cl^sBtnates.
1027Victor F. Hasenoehrl, I, Is statistical staff of the Federal Power Commission, and
Ington, D. C.
1929Alvin M.; Brown, I, may., be reached In vMeadvllle, Pa.employed, "by the Hookless Fastener Corporation.Alvin E. Godshall, I, is In the Service Department of. the Pontiac
home address is Riverside Apartments, No. 133, 420 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass.
win Davies, E; has'been c
Samuel Kabakov, I. Is working i an engineer on the Colorado River Aqueduct at the Pushawaila
transferred last March lo th East Chicago wocks of th E. I. du Pont de. Nemours & Company. Bunker ls llving at' 61 Elizabeth
Air Reduction Sales Company at Oklahoma City. Okla.
1931Wesley H. Msrtsolf. ployed - in the Detroit offlce of the United State Fidelity and Guaranty Company.' Mr. Martsolf was graduated from the University of Baltimore Law School-In la.13.Joseph Chamberlain; E. has been
K-stn "Stre^ Lebaass Ohto -
1932Kermit Ewing.
necesBary In our alumni organization. All alumni, all clans, all groups must work together If welo successfully' promote the
in tbeadvancement ot our college. I hope they, will cease to think of It as place where they Vspent a numbi of years, and visualize It as an 1 itllullon of which they are a pai Lets all cooperate and work tills year for a greater Carnegie
Carnegie Day Marks 
Centennial of Birth 
Of Andrew Carnegie
$300 Granted 
High Standing 
M. M. Women
Alnmni Invited to Attend 
Exercises-Admiesion 
By Ticket Only 
BAGPIPERS TO LEAD ! 
PROCESSION TO AFRI
Alumnae Group Opens 
35-36 Social Season 
At College Club
The Carnegie Alumnae Associa
tion opened Us social calendar with 
the annual luncheon at the College 
Club on September 28.
The meeting hB3 called to ordor 
by Mrs. William H. Harrold, retir
ing president, who introduced the 
new president, Mrs. Robert Hackctt. Before the regular business 
meeting was begun, Mrs. Haokett 
called upon honorary members 
Dean Green, Mrs. Charles Watkins, 
and Mrs. Anna F. Phllput, who 
gave messages of cordial greeting 
to -the group and their best wishes 
tor the continued success of the 
alumnae association. The various 
oommlttee chairman gave 
henslve reports of their work dur> 
Ing-the. past year, and the program 
ch,airman, Mrs. Herbert' Grahan 
gave a resume of the current year 
activities.
The Scholarship Committee has 
granted $300 to Senior Margaret 
MorrlBon students. t These grants 
are given to needy and worthy stu
dents who have attained high 
scholastic standing during their 
Junior year, and there Is no ques
tion of repayment to the scholar
ship fund after graduation. Those who received' scholarships are: Brlta Moeller, Secretarial, Florence McCullough who received the Philone other award to be made during the second sem< After-ths urdiirs ot the is? wsie complete, a delightful musical proFineArts.,;-The. membership, comMiss Katherine Shuman made
DEATHS
where, he 13 in the engineering de^rtrnent, of ' the National Mining Company.
1933 ;/William Councill. E. graduated from 'the Army. Flying School
__ stationed at BarksdaleField.' Shreveport.. La. He haa completed one years service there as Flying Cadet and. is-., now commissioned a Lieutenant, serving for another year at the samejBeJiJ, Charles Applegate
WILLIAM ERNEST LEMON, 1*32On November 1, 1935. After finishing his engineering couree at C. I. T Mr. Lemon took up law at University of . Pittsburgh, where he graduated with honors, receiving a teaching fellowship for the current year. He ls survived by his. .parents and brother, John
his home in Patchogue, N. Y., May 8, 1935.
The father of BETTY PRELLER, M'33, died on September 3, 1935.
MILDRED ALD1NGER. A32On March 4, 1935, following a throat operation.
HARRY MURPHY, E32  On February 9, 1935. He Is survived by his wife and one child,
T; FRANK OLSON. A32  In leptember, 1936. of pneumonia, at ittflburgh, Pa. .GHARLES - SMITH; .34^ On February 14, .1934, following a long illness. Mr. Smith was a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity and brother of Robert' R. Smith, E'33.Clifford A. Boyle, husband of MRS. BERTHA OHRMAN BOYLE, A24, on October 24, 1935, after an
iberi 1934.MRS. ROBERT H. EVANS, A17 Bertha Bates Evans, sister of Mrs. Carl Glock - (Lydia Bates, M16) on April 20, 1935, at Lancaster, Pa., after a long illness.A. LYLE LINPERMAN. E09 Suddenly on Mav 8. jBLc at Pittsburgh. Pa.ROY W. JOHNSON. EOn Januarv 1. Isa4. of a heart attack.HAROLD KENNEDY. E'17Of
East Orange. N. j.. to his hoi 'Allentown. Pa.ALFRED SACHSE-1'33On February 12. Iyi6. of.pneumonla.JOSEPH A. ISHERWOOD. E24 9n November 7. 1934. at Pittsburafi. 'F&i'/'-aa a 'result i'injuries suffered while in service in France during the World War.
t Quebec. Canada. Mrs. Longdon
The mother ot MRS. W. H. HARROLD (Jane Caldwell. M'12). died in August. Is5.
. Philadelphia. Pa. Mr. Coldren, a member of the first football team at* Carnegie. Tech' was. upon graduation. appointed assistantto Judge Walter Steffen, .at that tilhead football coa^h at C. I. T.v and later was a member of the. Plttsr burgh' Pirates. team, At the time
MARRIAGES
1911McQUILKlN-HEINEMANN. Miss Mildred McQullkln of Alliance,
1017KINN-TOMPKINS. Mrs. Irene Kim of Wahpeton, N. D., and Strati A. Tompkins, I, In April, 1935,
Johannesburg, South Africa, where Mr. Borland ls employed by the Westlnghouse International Company.. .
1921FINKELHOR-KOTZ1N. Miss Beele Finkelhor, M, and Tobias Kotoin, on November 16, 1934, at Bevirly Hills; California.
1922MOBLEY-RICHBNBAKER. Miss Eunice Mobley and Milton F. R1ch~ enbsker, E, at Atlanta, Ga., Juty 14. 1936. At home in Atlanta, where Mr. Rlchenbsker ls employmecbanlcal engineer f<
MILLER-KING. Miss Lois Miller and James E. Klngf, E, on FebI, 1936, at Pittsburgh. Pa.
1023:]eUegyFNggc _j3u Marian Kerner of Pittsburgh and Daniel W. Talbott. E. on December 24, 134. At home at 724 Woodlawn Avenue. Springfield. Ohio,
1924COHEN-SKY. Miss Tessle Cohen of Altoona Pa., and Israel Sky, E, July 7. 1935.
1925NEE-CURRAN. Miss Kathleen Agnes Nee. M. and John B. Curran on February 26.1935. at Plttsb BLACKBURN -. AUSTEN.Elsie Blackburn. M. and .Oswald T. Austen at Miami. Floridai ln'Fenruary. IrniG.- Mr. end .Mrs. Austin
Douglass Freeman, Editor ; 
Pulitzer Prize Winner, 
Delivers Address
ThlB year Carnegie Day will 
havo special slgniQcance. The ex
ercises on November 26, to which 
tho alumni are Invited, will not 
only be the twenty-third observ
ance by the Institution of ttlo 
Founders birthday, but will be in 
celebration also of tho one hundred 
yearev tbat have passed sinco An
drew Cameg!Scottish high!-unfermlino.. Graduates living in' tho l^ittR^2 burgh district who wish to attend can secure cards of admission by writing the Registrar's .Office, and i : : : enclosing a eelf-addressod, stamped - envelope. To insure a seat those -i'--; cards must bo presentedbeforo 
10:45 oclock on the morning:of tho itl, twonty-flfth, es the taoiiltyfad student procession from, thq cnni'-'^ Pus will arrive at Carnegie Mso '. :- Hall at that time, and will occupy A all of the house except the rservatlon.s made for the alumni'and > other-guests. ijv
A feature of the occasion will be the distribution of a special ^Vv program-whlch will oontaln two iilustrated Bhort articles entitled j'i'i Andrew Carnegie and the Founding and The Founder and th Stu: -j'idents, the letter describing Car'pr'- negles five vlBlts to the. campus. < In addlllop, the booklet wlll. con'if .;* Ohronology of Cariiegl Iiii: ' '
ordinarily on the. program will .be tho' prosenoo of a group of bag-, pipers to pipe tho procesaibitt.'in-. - j^v' to the Hall, the playing' of''Scot-v tish..AirB. by_ the .Band.- ftn^i'-'^o  singing of Auld. Lang Syiie 'by ' * the audience. . .Editor To 6peak The principal speaker of-tlio i 
day wlll be DouglaBB Sodthall FTeetnan, Editor of the Richmond Nevrs* Loader,, and the recent wlnnefvpf : Pulitzer  Prize for his blogTaph^ of General Robert E. Lee. Colonel
seventy pieces of the Department :-|i of Music, under the  direction, ot'-'tass Professor J. Vick O'Brien, will ap* iJ^ Dear on the program. The .three
and the fraternity; aororlty. .and ^ 
dormitory scholarship trophies will rf be awarded. _ H,.Carnegie Day Is always regai-d^Sj^ ed as an appropriate opportunity on which to extend public recgnli-:V:i>^ tlon to those students who hays^T^ been awarded scholorshlpis "tor high scholastic performance." This, recognition'takes the form of pub-high scholastic performance.' This,- recognition takes the form of publlshlng their names in the prograiitf; i of having all holders of scholar-4^ ships march'as a group to the Halli/; ips and of being Beated together.' ' i Foundors Last Visit (uThe Founders last visit to th'e^^i1 campus Is deecribed In . the  book-'-'JiS^ let as follows; ;' . ''/ Jp On. the aftomckon. of 'October ^S/. MiVV 1914, there was held, in 'Carnegie' Music Hall what the Founder: hIm-.'^,'-(v' -i self characterized in his speech an 'outstanding'example umphant democracy."/ It waW-'OT^$F informal gathering, a .family-'parts^-if^ of all those who were in any. associated with the lQstftule'7=^i#i trustees, deans, professors,.' shf-vxf^ dente, office -girls, englneers, :me-' ;ji?i chanlclaus, errand boye, -po^tera~;j|N and Janitors., Just how inforhiai^-?^ and democratic it was . may-'.be' ;>[^i,1 Judged-from the fact that ralrfien> ii ranged from ia i'TWR?!
sleeves! AH their work t the grand old rpre-arronged except the time and '.viF-i the place. The program develop^V'sfls itself with delightful spontaneity as It went along. Even the apeak--flfca ers who mounted the platform ito ^iS greet the host and hostess and sayM^ a few words of welcome.- were-se^'r-t^ lected by the. assemblage vlv ^ n voce, the groups that called loud->^ eat and longest getting their..can*:>T&ii didates elected.Genuine Goodwill "The expressions of goodwill and. gratitude were naively - genulne,^^?
in Miami.
1927CLULEY-RODEE. Miss Margaret Clulev. M. and Elwyn-Justln.Rodee, on-March 1. laaB. atvNew -York City. . .Mr. . and Mrs. Rodee are residing at 1L6 Bellvue Avenue, - West Haven. Conn.
October 12.1wL5, at'Brooklyn.-N. Y.;
1926THOMAS-WRIGHT. Miss Ruth Thomas. M< and Robert M. Wrlght,E at the George Washingtonllof tel in,Washington; Pai, on June 28,1935;' :-V............. . MERCER-GREINER. Miss MayIce cream manufacture)L. Mercer and Lari-9. Greiner^ E, 
7 of -Atlantic City.i June 25.1935- at Frederick, Md.
many In
lirBHHiit ' A' the glrls1^glee club sang vAnnie Layrie;!rthe ^. man with the . megaphone - cailetti^ for"a lusty cheer for Uncle Andy^i the Mayor of the. City of rut iburfth took his turn on the program*} with the rest:- and when. -in-^thsi;
hers with the smocked :__________of the statues. It .waa the/Unfclgathering of the kind.to Carnegie had seen bis students^tf the last time
Mr. and Mrs. Grelner-are,at::n(n&V4! In New ' York ' .'City, her* lr IGreiner Is afflltated vith the B. jI -Telephone Laboratories. , Q

---------------------------------------------------

Nigltl School Section of Tartan
General News-Editorial Comment--iraternal Organisations
Armistice Day
By the time theee words 'Appear Jo print, the whole-world will have commemorated the seventeenth as* nlversary of the signing of the Armlfltlce, -which ended the World "War. Jn:inany of the larger cities. . jarades will have been staged and appropriate ceremonies will have marlied the occasion.'
---.'Sh, war to .end wars, as it was called, ended in 1918. For many,
sides gaping wounds where bullets I found their marks, are striking ex-! amplos of the horrors of war.
/just eighteen years after the
. tory repeat itself? On all fronts there Is a spirit ot uneasiness. sNa,iions are beginning to rearm. Bulld; .lng programs are being rushed tql completion. Pledges are being1 . broken and what were once considered peace treaties are now mere : /scrapsot paper. The spark needs .but to be kindled.
/'. Italy and Ethiopia ore already at . war. Will the conflict spread to -.Europe and eventually involve the : 'tJnlted States? In spite of the League of Nations sanctions. Italy Is.d'eterroined to cany on. England has become alarmed' and sent her , flfeeit to the Mediterranean. Gertibany, who has been secretly rebuilding her army is still smarting from the terms of the Armistice under which she was stripped of some of her prize possessions and Js following closely the progress of Italy. In the far east, Japan has ambitions In-China, in short the situation . at > the present moment is one of I tenseness.
The United States, having learned: Its lesson In the IsBt great conVflict;. should profit thereby by reaoJniog. tree from all foreign en* :tanglements in the future. In this '.way only can we .offer retribution for the logs of Hie Involved in the
' The International
' :frhe 1935 Carnegie International exhibition' of paintings which open:d: recently at th Carnegie Muse..lim -Art galleries, brought to PlttS' ^iburghthe ndeavora 6 artists from all parts of the world. In spite of the fact that the International employs thevery much ridiculed "Jury
....... jomposfiig thfs-Jary ehose for
! the. first pri2e a painting which left .: ao dtssentlon in the ranks of the /.critics.
;:7&Tbe winner ot the first r-Caviedes, a Spaniard, whose painting .of a . South American couple :;tltled, Elvira and Tlberlo, brought1 ' the : favorable comments of many ::adeto the true feeling and gentle, humor.which the painting portrayfona 'prize, met with much-enthusl-i ^sm: because of Its vigor and determined representation which are sp.1 deftly handled In water colors-. Tattler than oils. Although some - discussion accompanied the selec-j ; ;tlon of the third award, Mattson's '. .Deep.. Water," was worthy of the gating. His painting imparted the  depth and strength of the sea withput making the canvas look like a hath tub full of soap foam, 
v^'in; view of the many criticisms vwiilch are habituallymade, the In. ieniatlonal should be highlycom-.mended in having placed on exht/bition ah assembly of paintings>vWhich.< successfully displayed the .-.progress which modern art Is mak"),v-iA.> Colorado University student v' caught drinking is forced to attend /'Siinday school for three years.
(Eartgir fat
,.v>.'P*8 edited t(brHloht rtdents^f
V.-ylaw*. or opinions expressed in the edltoXrinl^coluimn arc ^ipt^ncioasanlT endorsad
EDWARD P. WHITE! News Editor ^CORNELIUS A BLOCHINGER 
Associate Editors liildred Gersn - Edmund Drensen William Wessely 
' - Staff vH: A: Lahr A. C. Grimm;/?w.' J. Noigot W. A. Venael
Tech Barber Shop
J Ciiug and PortesOakland
Election Held 
By Council At 
First Meeting
Each of Three Colleges j 
Are Represented By 
Executive Group |
The first, meeting of the 1936-36 
Night Student Council was held on 
Sunday, November. 3, in the club 
room in the Administration building. Mr. Grimm presided and the roll call showed all members present. Among the most important items of business was the election of Council officers to serve for the current year.
is customary, the President of the Night Student Council is elected during the year previous to that In which he assumes tbe office. The roster of -Council officers however. Is not completed until the time of the first meeting.
The officers who were elected to during the balance of the
elected to the office of secretary, end Mr: John Schurko, who EVVb elected to the office of treasurer. I The newly elected officers are rep-1 resentatlves of the College of In-1 dustrles. Engineering and Fine1 ArtB, respectively. I
NIGHT LIGHTS
of treasury books a distance of five miles to the council meetings, making a total of 189 pounds for thei seven meeting? of the year. Dave I Davis, who figured it out to the| last fraction by multiplying the 1S9 pounds by (5x5,260 feet), finally decided that the poor boy is under-1 paid . . . "Five-Share Saunders Is the plutocrat (nowadays known as Caupitalist) of Prof, Gregg's History L3l ccc
Six of the Phi Nu men came to their masquerade party as Dr. Dafoe and the Quintuplets, bottles and
The Plaid staff feels cheated because the phone In tbs Tertftn room Is. turned off at 9 P...M. and they never get down there till 1<TP. M.
John Salko got two tickets fro: the girl friend for a birthday presWlth the opening of the Night school, a new social, season will be ushered In. The success of the Night school functions depends not
the support of the entire student body. One way to Bupport the various events le by your attendance'
courages the students who participate* in this work by granting them points, toward an Insignia award, which is presented in recognition of
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
We'll have you know that one i Wllklnsburgs newly elected co stables is Bill Venselthe old or tor stuffswaying the populace . , Ellen Bllsk wants to know how to get her name In the paper. P.She ipust have foui^d out! . . .
Ted La Rosa won the Baby Blue
. Miss Finks qualifications for a boy friendfor the Military Ball were: (1) he must behave; (2) he must have sense; (3) looks are not necessary . . . The Power Plant class ls starting oft in reverse this yeartheyre putting the engine before the steam ... 1
A. C. Grimm has that "Im gonna save you look on his face again hes been trying to convert your poor Democratic Night-Lights intg
with the Halloween spirit . .the other night.
For a Real Delicious 
Home-Cooked Meal
I EAT AT
Marys Restaurant
327 South Craig Street
Near Forbes Street 
Try Our Special 25c Luncheon 
[EAT WHERE VOUR FRIENDS
C. S. EDM AN
PRINTER
HAzel 019?
6470 Monitor Street
Iiibetty Engraving Company]]
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
^PHOTOCRAPMYr 
COLOR,HEWS end COMMERCIAL] 
-rARTi 
FOR ALL ILLUSTRATIVE 
PURPOSES
^TYPEWRITERS $14.95 TO $75.00
Liberal Term Free Trial
RENT A TYPEWRITERFirst Three Months Rental Applies to Purchase Price
, Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
Assistant Social 
Chairman Named
Will Aid in Arrangements 
For Council Functions
On. recommendation of Mr. Herbert Stone, tbe retiring social chairman, ths Night student council appointed Mr. Edmund Drensen os assistant social chairman for a duration'Of the'193&36 social seaIn this capacity, Mr. Drensen
social. functions sponsored by the
ties during his matriculation i
College of Industries and Assistant social chairmen, he has held the offices of secretary of the College of Industries and business manager of tbe 1934-35 Thistle. Mr. Dreniber of' Nu Sigma AINight Student Council 
Calls for Volunteers
Plaid Staff Is 
Completed' By 
Appointments
Three Associate Editors 
Assume Duties With 
Current Issue
The remaining vacancies on the 
Plaid staff were filled recently by 
the Night student council, with the 
appointment of Miss Mildred Gereon, Mr. .William Wessely and Mr. Edmund Drensen as associate editors for the current year. As is. customary, one associate editor was appointed from each college. Miss Gereon representing the College of Fine Art's, Mr. Wessely, the College of Engineering and Mr. Drensen, the College of Industries.
The fact that tbe staff has been' completed should not discourage
rial is used or not. The editor welcomes contributions from the night student body, the graduates of Carnegie night school and the alumni of Carnegie. In addition, the criticisms and suggestions of the studentbody will be.given careful consideration.
Volunteers Will 
Solicit Donations
Fundwas announced. This drive Is now In full swing throughout the city and on the Carnegie campus. Contributions made through tbe school workers will benefit the Christian association as well ae the 'Community Fund. Those who have not as yet made a contribution to this fund will have an opportunity
evening of next week. Volunteer
Masquerade Held 
Nov. 2 by Phi Nu
The Halloween dance held Sat
urday evening.. November 2, by the 
Phi Nu fraternity was a very suc
cessful affair; Those attending, In
cluding the members, and their 
friends, were treated to a very enjoyable-evening which included the masquerade dance, refreshments during dancing, a floor show and a light lunch to top-off the evening.
The spectacular costumes, which caused tbs judges ' considerable anxiety when awarding the prizes,
lets. Handsome prizes, were awarded to the robot man, the Dutch girl, tbe military maid, the colonial girl, the swallow-tall half breed and the (Rajah. Tbe costumes received a great deal of recognition from the judges.
Apple cider and cookies were served to stimulate the dancing,
During the intermission, a floor show which included singing, danc: Ing and muaical selections, added considerable eplce to the party. The floor show featured the talented members of the fraternity.
The Penn Lincoln hotel, the scene of the affair, was decorated .with pumpkins, lanterns, witches and spooky lights to frighten the goblins. Com stalks adorning the corners, were attractively lighted by pumpkin faces. The decorations created more then the necessary atmosphere for a Halloween party.
At the end of the dancing, tbe entire-party repaired to the dining room, where a delicious lunch of sandwiches, ice cream, cake and coffee was served. The meal was the unwelcome end to an evening of tun,, frolic and hilarity._______
Stone Appointed 
To Puppet Staff
Workers to Submit Names 
For Night Circulation
Mr. Herbert Stone, president of the night Collegeof Industries, has. accepted the duties of night circulation manager of tbe Puppet The distribution of this, humorous periodical requires the services of salesmen whose active participation will be recognized by-the Puppet staff with the award of Puppet keys. Night students desiring to sell Puppets, are requested to report to Mr. Stone early Tuesday evening, Novemzer 12, in the Council office, Room 144C Industries building, at which time tbe new Issues will be ready for distribution. Anyone unable to report personally should send bis or her same, address and college registration to Mr, Herbert Stone, Box 136, C. I. T. Post Office. Mr. Stone is anxious to re-establish, the Puppet on the night campus, end the active euport of the night students is solicited,' with the promise of many wholesome laughs from tbe wit and humor contained in the magaTis Said
THAT the elephant never for. gets . . . but who wants to be an elephant?THAT some peopfe dont know when to retirefrom polities.THAT the Night Stud
by the two night frater THAT the boy6 from t
ST. ANDREWS LUTHERAN CHURCHCentre and Morewood Avenues HENRY O. ECKHARDT, Pastoi 
Sunday Morning Worship, 10:45 A. M..Sunday School, 9:30 A. M.' Young Peoples Hour every alternate Sunday, 7:15 P. M.(November 10 Noverber 24, etc.)
Aides Named 
For Socials
Committee Selected By 
Night Arts Officers
During the first few months of
as well as In the functions of the night student council as a body 
At the laBt regular meeting of
ing the current year: Mr. JosephTracht, Mr. Edward McMullen, Mr. Floyd Grimes, Mr. David Jones, Mr. Thomas Jonkowiak, Miss Sally
Polito. Mr. Edward Varasse. Mr. Edward Stoecker and Mr. Theodore La Rosa.
The social committee fi Colleges of Engineering and Indus! election,THAT Its all over but shouting (the elections, dope).. THAT if all the workers turn out for the PLAID i laid end to end it would s them rlghL
TIERNANS 
CAFE
Phone SChenley 9505
SPECIAL LUNCHES 
SEA.FOOD
Opposite Forbes Field
Barn Dance Held 
By Nu Sigma Alpha
The barn dance held by Nu Sig 
ma Alpha fraternity at tbe Corp
O. Dlller hall in Mt. Washington 
on Saturday,. November 2, was very successful affair. The deco. rations were in keeping with tta& spirit of Halloween. Corn stalks were placed in various sections of the ball and the dim lighting ef. fects. propefiy focused, made the room a scene of beauty. The muic contributed largely lo the success
most unusual costumes worn by the farmer and farmerette. \ cackling hen was on hand to add to the amusement of the dancers Refreshments ' in the way of s bumper crop of apples, a barrel ot cider, and ginger snaps, were distributed throughout the evening Hnd enjoyed by all who were pres, ent.
The enthusiastic accJaim of those in attendance was a good Icdieslion of the popularity of this typ
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Ta.
O'- '.'.I'-'J Ckv.klj
They dp say tkeyire milder and taste better 
and I've heard tell they satisfy .
_____:_____;____!
