UbUSHED-UEEMTUDim
OFTtlt
(AMEdlCTBMaLMTOM
UbSHE DFEBRUARY 9, 1910-SHME T
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
0X0X0%0%0*0\0X0%O*0*0\0\0*0N0\0%0S0X
5 0
1 THE RITTENHOUSE |
0
*Affords Superior Facilities for 0 
Serving Dinners, Balls 
and Banquets.
The Ball Room floor is cushioned g 
making it perfect for dancing. 
Special Inducements to Students g 
of Carnegie Tech. 0gw----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- *------ 0*0KUHNS
sIN THE RITTENHOUSE 8
0 *%0X0%0X0%0X0X0%0S0X0S0%0XO*0X0*00%O
IROQUOIS BLOCK^g^
Where all the TECH BOYS go. 4*
A Gold Enamel Tech Button iree with all pur4! 
chases of $3.00 and over. T
Open Evenings 4*
H 
5 If you want to be well drest let us be your 
g; 'loggers 5?
 SOCIETY BRAND SUITS & OVERCOATS  
 $20.  $22.50  $25.  $28.  $30. O
j; Stetson, and Crofut-Knapp Hats$3. and $4. h
+04<>4<i*04<^0*0*04<>4<^*0*0*0*0*0*0*0
Joseph Horne Co.,
PITTSBURGS FOREMOST UPTODATE 
DRY GOODS STORE
We desire to say to young men and women 
that fashionable clothes for young people are 
the dominant features of this store.
Next to variety is that other important mat
ter. close-to-cost prices.
Our new lines of Suits for young men, and 
our new lines of Suits for young women show 
that perfection which can only be attained by 
faultless workmanship.
Then, all young people are interested in the 
Accompaniments of correct dress, the furnish
ings as they have come to be called. Rely 
upon us for up-to-the-moment styles.
Best way to judge a store is by a personal 
visit.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
I McILWAINES |
g 434 WOOD STREET 
tt 509 MARKET STREET |j
5? 542 LIBERTY AVENUE |5
S Swell Haberdashery - Every Day Prices
8 Si
Mr/j*.
JACQUES 
DANCING ACADEMY
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley.
CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND 
SATURDAY
Private Lessons Daily 
%S%%%\\N%NV%\VNN\%XW\WSVV?_____
S 8
**BRACE BROS.
| Launderers, Cleaners and  
| Dyers |
^ 608 Trenton Avenue, WHkinsburg. 
ft 6102 Penn Avenue, East Liberty ^
0Both Phones. **
$# 4*VXi*c^v** -m wTvTWTUTVTWvWTWTWTwTWTWTWTWTyTWTyTyTW
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. IV
tartan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1910Number 18
WHITE FRIARS
PLANS FOR SUCCESSFUL SEASON
LAST CALL FOR CAST AND CHORUS
The White Friars have commenced preparations 
for their third season before the public. This Club, 
through the consistent efforts and hard work of the 
officers and members, has had a more rapid rise in 
their two seasons past, than any of the older Clubs 
of Colleges and Universities of the East. Far sur
passing the majority of them in the largeness of 
the scope of production, the White Friars is at once 
entering into the largest field of College productions, 
and profiting by the mistakes and experiences of the 
older clubs. That the show this year will surpass 
the others is an assured fact, when it is announced 
as the work of Mr. Walter B. Edmundson, the Stage 
Director of the Club, and author of last years show. 
The vehicle to be used in displaying the abilities of 
the performers is a two-act musical comedy enti
tled, Miss Mistaken.
The plot of the play follows the experiences of a 
man who, the day before his wedding, discovers his 
fiancee is planning to elope with a poet, and its un
folding tells of how he wins her back by proving the 
poet to be a four-flusher; all of which takes place in 
a sanitarium in the new-thot culture settlement call
ed New Arcadie.
The first of the trials for the chorus took place 
in the Assembly Hall of the A. & J. Building Monday 
night. The second and last will be held next Mon
day night, Feb. 14, the time and place will be an
nounced on the bulletin boards. There are to be 
two choruses in the show this year, and many more 
new men are wanted, since there is lots of room 
both in the chorus and cast. Applicants for both the 
cast and chorus are to report at that time, and none 
later will have any chance. None of the places are 
decided, and will not be until after the trials. All 
comers have as much chance of showing what they 
can do as the old men, very few of whom are out 
this year. The selection is not controlled by any 
clique or fraternity, and is made by the Stage Di
rector. More men are wanted.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The attention of all classes is called to the fol
lowing regulation, passed at a recent meeting of the 
Board of Control of the Athletic Association:
Any Class whose representative is absent from 
two, or more, successive meetings of the Board, 
shall be notified of this fact, and suggested that this 
Class ask for the resignation of this representative, 
and elect another, unless the delinquent can render 
a satisfactory excuse to the Board for his absences. 
This regulation was made necessary by the con
tinued absence of some of the Board members.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
INTER-SCHOOL MEET
To Take Place May 14th
The first announcement of an inter-schools track 
meet to be held on the fourteenth of May has just 
been made. The affair will be managed by the offi
cers of the Varsity Track Team, under the direction 
of the Athletic Director. It is planned to have this 
meet between the Science, Design and A. & J. Schools 
take place annually. A competition for the design of a 
suitable plaque to be awarded the winning school, 
will be anounced very shortly. The school winning 
it for five years will be allowed to keep it perma
nently as a regular trophy. In addition to the first 
prize, first, second and third will be awarded for each 
event. The team to represent Tech in the inter-col
legiate meet will be chosen from the winners in the 
inter-schools meet.
Such in substance is the brief of what is destined 
to become one of the most popular and interesting 
meets in which Tech participates. For years past 
it was difficult to get men out for the Varsity Team, 
owing to the fact that no new and unknown men de
siring merely to try their ability at an event, would 
put in an appearance when asked to try for the Vars
ity Team. Under the new plan, it will be necessary 
for every man who has only the desire, if nothing 
more, to try for his school team. It is likely that the 
idea will be carried even further and involve class 
and section competition as a preliminary try-out for 
the inter-school meet.
Men who have participated in track events before 
are, of course, desired to enter these contests, but 
the ones who have any desire to try any event will 
receive as much consideration as the more experi
enced. The primary reason for holding the meet is 
to discover and develop all available material. Ev
erybody will receive a good show and is invited to 
enter.
Pennsylvania Relay Meet.
The sixteenth annual relay meet, to be held on 
Franklin Field, Philadelphia, by the University of 
Pennsylvania, will take place on April 30. It will be 
remembered that Carnegie Tech has been sending 
teams to the event for several years past, and we 
have come away well rewarded for our pains. Each 
year has seen Tech better placed, more successful, 
and with a wider range of recognition. The present 
one is no exception. The new classification em
braces:
Carlisle Indian School.
Haverford College.
New York University.
John Hopkins University.
Colgate.
Carnegie Technical Schools.
University of Pittsburgh.
Bucknell University.
It can be seen from the above that the carrying 
off of first place this year will not by any means be 
childs play. The preceding inter^shools meet 
leads directly up to this one, and the honor connect
ed with being on such a team should draw out many 
men desirous of representing Tech in the biggest 
inter-collegiate meet in the country.
HOCKEY.
When State College fell out of the league it was 
thought that hockey was doomed to an early and 
unseasonable death. The Faculty at State has al
lowed the team to make one more trip to Pittsburgh, 
thus winding up the season in a fairly good fashion 
The State team is due here Friday and Saturday, 
and it is expected that she will play games with Piet 
and Tech. On the following Saturday Tech and Pitt 
play for the last time and the season closes so far as 
Pittsburgh is concerned.
The Tech team is scheduled to go to Cleveland to 
play Case and Reserve. The date set at present is 
March 25th and 26th, but the management is trying 
to move that date forward a little. In the mean time 
why not bring Case and Reserve on here for a game? 
This would wind up the season in great shape and 
give us something to look back upon.
CRUCIBLE CLUB.
On Wednesday evening, February 9th, Walter A. 
Jacobs, Tech 08, will speak before the Crucible 
Club on the subject of Technical Gas Analysis. 
Mr. Jacobs is a former member of the Club, and all 
should be on hand to give him a hearty welcome. 
Much of his experience has been along the line of 
gas analysis and he will treat the subject in an in
teresting and instructive manner.
THE JUNIOR PROMENADE.
THE RITTENHOUSE. 
FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIRST.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
TECH MECHANICS CLUB SMOKER.
Well, its over, boys, and as the last lingering 
cloud of incense from the made-in-America Turk
ish cigarettes was wafted away by the hot air 
from the down-draft furnace of the member from 
Kentucky, President A: E. Johns, Gans went to the 
floor for the count, and one of the most enjoyable 
affairs in the social history of the A. & J. Schools 
became but a memory.
But if the sandwiches and cigars and other good 
things are no more, and the songs and stories and 
jokes but echoes, the recollections will be treasured 
as unfading and pleasant memories, which is to 
say that on the night of January 28th the TechMechanics entertained the Faculty and other friends 
in old 104.
President Johns acted as host in good old Ken
tucky style, assisted by a live committee. A special 
invitation was extended to the Craftsmens Club, 
the social organization of the Upper Night Classes 
of A. & J., and others of the Night Classes who 
were wise enough to accept the general invitation 
extended, had the time of their lives. By the cour
tesy of Dean Connelley the guests enjoyed a realis
tic view of the opening game of the Detroit-Pittsburgh worlds championship series, run off on the 
fine moving-picture machine which is the latest ac
quisition of the Trade Schools.
T. W. Alexander acted as Director-in-Chief of a 
large graphaphone, and made a hit by his selection 
of appropriate numbers. Good use was made of 
the piano, and a double quartette earned generous 
applause for a number of rousing vocal selections.
The boys did not have all the honors, however, 
for Mr. White, dispenser of tools and jokes in the 
machine shop during working hours, gave a fine 
demonstration of how to be sixty years young, with 
several genuine Scotch ballads, and a Simon-pure 
Highland fling.
Are the Trade Schools asleep? Ask anyone who 
was lucky enough to be among those present.
THE GIRLS JUNIOR PROM.
The Junior Class of the Margaret Morrison Car
negie School held their annual Prom last Wednesday 
evening in the Gymnasium and upper corridors of 
their building. The entire building was given over 
to the affair, which can be counted as one of excep
tional success. The dancing ai'eas were gaily decor
ated with pennants and greens, making the scene a 
pretty one. The major part of the Faculty were in
the receiving line, and throughout the evening 
honered the guests with an occasional dance. An 
air of delightful hospitality prevailed everywhere; 
in the cozy corners and throughout every appoint
ment. Dinner was served in the roomy Faculty 
parlors on the first floor in elaborate style. The 
Girls Junior Prom of 1910 was a decided success.
The officers of the Class having arrangements in 
charge were: President, Loretta Kemple; Sarah
Nolan, Ethel Alter, Marguerite Farrel, Vice Presi
dents; Florence Flinn, Secretary; Mary Craighead, 
Treasurer.
THE JUNIOR PROM.
The Junior Prom of the Applied Science and De
sign Schools is to be held on Wednesday evening, 
February 21, at the Rittenhouse. Of all the social 
happenings of the season, none can surpass this for 
the interest attached, and the elaborateness of the 
function. The grand march will start promptly at 
9. The dance program will be posted on the bulle
tin boards at noon on this Wednesday, and it is 
quite necessary for those contemplating attending 
to have arrangements made before that date in 
order to fill out their dance cards. All Juniors are 
eligible to attend, and urged to do so, not so much 
for their personal enjoyment as to make the affair 
one of which the Junior Class can be proud.
ATTENTION CLASS C.
Night Class C will hold a meeting in the near fu
ture. Come out fellows as we need the presence of 
every member, and there are a few smokes left from 
the peanut smoker, which will be puffed away.
Theiss and Hergenroeder, our two Germans from 
' the North Side. They never miss.
Last Friday night there was a rumor that Langdon was going away for a week. It may be a case 
of matrimony.
Oh, you Stobie, with your glad hand and friendly 
smiles.
1
 JUNIOR PROM. I
FEBRUARY 21, 1910 1
Rittenhouse jii

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
On Tuesday evening, February 1, the Juniors held 
their annual-Prom in the M. M. C .S. From begin
ning to end the affair was a very decided success, 
and the Juniors are to be congratulated on having 
planned it so well. The gymnasium and lunch room 
and the corridor connecting the two rooms were 
used for dancing, while that part of the same floor, 
familiarly known as the House, was used as the 
reception room, where Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag, Dean West and Miss Loretta Kemple, the 
Class president, received. The ropes and bars, and 
other stationary apparatus in the gymnasium were 
so completely hidden under green boughs and crepe 
paper, that it was hard to recognize the old room. 
Nearly every school and college in the country was 
represented by a banner or pennant, the Tech 
Schools, of course, being very much in prominence. 
Mr. Bright, Mr. Decker and Mr. Borschneck added 
success to the evening by announcing the extra 
dances. Supper was served in the Faculty rooms, 
where the tables were attractively decorated with 
carnations and candles.
The patronesses were: Dean West, Mrs. Hamerschlag, Mrs. Gibbs, Miss Baldwin and Miss Cauble.
There was a notice posted early in the last week 
of the past semester that there would be a meeting 
of th Dramatic Club on Friday afternoon of the 
same week. The meeting was called, but where 
were the members? Surely there is enough interest 
felt in the Club to warrant at least a quorum to be 
present. Members should watch the bulletin and 
make it a point to be at every meeting.
Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag and Dean West, 
in company with Judge Buffington and Mr. Charles 
Taylor, attended the annual meeting of the Kingsley 
House last week. Dean West reports the weaving 
industry in the Kingsley House to be most inter
esting, and has bought a piece of their work for 
the House. Our Director was pleased to find one 
of the old students of the M. M. C. S. in charge of 
the cooking class.
Edgeworth Village Improvement Society is much 
encouraged by the interest shown in the course of 
cooking demonstrations to be given under its aus
pices by Miss Cecelia K. Bradt, of the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Department of Domestic Science, 
at the Edgeworth School, about the second week in 
February. The entire course of six lessons will 
cost $2, and single lessons will be given for 50 
cents. All applications should be sent as early as 
possible, either by telephone or postal, to Mrs. 
Henry Irwin, Jr., at Shields, Pa., that proper arrange
ments may be made for the space and supplies re
quired.Sewickley Valley.
Our School was visited recently by Miss Hedwig 
af Petersens, of Sweden, who is making a tour of the 
United States in order to understand and thereby 
better the condition of her own people in this coun
try. The mission she has undertaken is self-im
posed, and she is using her own fortune to carry 
out her plans. Miss af Petersens was very much 
interested in our School, and hopes to persuade the 
Swedish government to send a student here to be 
educated. She is to be present here at the com
mencement exercises in June.
Miss Robina Stewart, Superintendent of Nurses 
in the Allegheny General Hospital, took luncheon 
in the House last week, and expressed herself de
lighted with the work of the Household Arts De
partment.
Miss Dermitt, of the Child Labor Association, lec
tured to the Juniors in Social Ethics on January 25.
SIGMA TAU HOUSE ROBBED.
On last Wednesday afternoon the Sigma Tau 
House, on Woodlawn avenue, was robbed of several 
hundred dollars worth of clothing and other valu
ables. Among the other things taken was a suit
case. One of the neighbors saw during the day, a 
man leaving the house carrying a heavy suitcase, 
but though nothing of it until questioned that even
ing. Owing to the fact that nearly all of the miss
ing articles are positively known to have been in 
their respective places in the different rooms in the 
morning, the time is definitely fixed. All of the 
rooms on the second floor were visited, but none on 
the third; there being no sleeping rooms on the 
first. None of the men were in the house at the 
time. The affair was reported to the Oakland police.
INFORMAL SMOKER AT WOODLAWN.
The members of the Woodlawn Cottage Club en
tertained a few of their friends at an entirely in
formal stag smoker and story-swapping contest. 
About ten men were the guests of the evening. 
Sandwich materials and coffee were served in the 
dining room at a late hour, after which the fumes 
of tobacco gradually dispelled as the visiting men 
departed.
In the preliminary debates for the Chicago teams, 
the successful candidates receive scholarships worth 
tuition for two quarters.
Because of his remarks on wearing rats, jimmys, 
willies and false hair, according to the Minnesota 
Daily, the women in the botany class incited some 
of the men to set upon the offending professor at 
midnight and cut off half of his mustache.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
BOARD OF CONTROL MEETING.
At the last meeting of the Board of Control of 
the Athletic Association held Wednesday, the dis
cussions were various. The committee on the re
vision of the Constitution reported considerable 
progress and desired to try out a new scheme of the 
election of managers of the different teams. The 
following is the resolution passed after serveral 
hours of discussion:
That two Assistant Managers for the Baseball 
Team be elected from the Junior Classes of the 
Day School of Applied Science, Applied Design, or 
the Second Year Day Industrial School, by ballot 
cast by each student, except first year students. All 
eligible candidates shall present their names to any 
member of the Board of Control before Feb. 16th, 
1910. Of these candidates five will be selected by 
the Board of Control for final election by the stu
dents. The student election will take place on Feb. 
18th, 1910, from 1 P. M. to 5 P. M. and from 7:30 P. 
M. to 10:45 P. M. The election shall be in charge 
of an Election Committee of seven appointed from 
the Board of Control.
H. J. McCorkle, Secretary.
In order to make any adequate test of the plan it 
will be necessary for the student body to co-operate 
with the Election Committee and vote at the elec
tion. The entire purpose of this is to devise a sat
isfactory method of increasing interest in the posi
tions of managers of the different teams. If any 
success is met with, it will be embodied in the re
vised Constitution.
SCIENCE INSPECTION TRIPS.
The intervening week between the first and the 
second semester in the School of Applied Science, 
was utilized in various ways. The entire Plebe 
class spends five hours of each day in the drawing 
rooms at mechanical drawing. The Civil Sopho
mores visited the Conway freight yards, Pittsburgh 
Instrument Co., The Homestead Steel Works, and 
measured up a bridge and concluded the week by 
making drawings of the same. The Civil Juniors 
made the same tour, substituting the Filtration 
Plant for the Instrument Co. The Seniors and some 
of the others left Saturday morning over the B. 
& O. for Washington, D. C., where they spent Sun
day and Monday visiting museums, etc., in that 
city. They started for Harpers Ferry Tuesday 
morning and arrived Wednesday night, and spent 
Thursday and Friday studying the Appalachian 
phenomena.
The Senior Metallurgists performed experimental 
work in the laboratories all week, while the Senior 
Miners were occupied with mine surveying the en
tire time. The Juniors of both departments accom
panied the members of the Geological trip. The 
Sophomore Metallurgists were in the laboratory all 
week, with a short trip. The Sophomore Miners
accompanied the Seniors in the mine survey.
The Mechanicals traveled together, and on Mon
day made the following visits: West'inghouse Ma
chine Co., Pittsburg Meter Co., Westinghouse Founderies Co. Tuesday was spent writing up reports. 
Wednesday, the Homestead Steel Works, the Carrie 
Furnaces and the Monongahela Light Co. of Rankin, 
were visited, and on Friday the Pressed Steel Car 
Co., Pennsylvania Malleable Co. and the Schoen 
Steel Wheel Co., all of McKees Rocks.
The Chemists spent most of their time in the 
labs doing either qualatative or organic work. On 
Tuesday and Thursday the Juniors and Seniors 
visited some electro-chemical plants, and the Rub
ber and Glass Works at Jeannette.
The Senior Electricals included Renfrew Power 
House, Pittsburg and Butler Single Phase Rail
way, Oliver Power Plant and the Phipps Power 
Plant. The Juniors made those visits and also the 
Frick Power Plant, and the Seventh Avenue Plant 
of the Bell Telephone Co. The Sophomores saw, 
the American Steel & Wire Co., National Tube Co., 
Carnegie Steel Co., Jones & Laughlin Steel Plant, 
Carnegie Institute Power Plant, Allegheny County 
Light Co.s Laboratories, and the substation at Wilkinsburg of 13,200 and 2,200 volts.
NEWS OF THE COLLEGES
The fiftieth anniversary of the University of Cal
ifornia, which occurs in May, 1910, will be marked 
by the erection of a $100,000 alumni hall, which will 
contain a large assembly hall for the annual alumni 
reunions and offices for college publications.
Thirty thousand dollars has been offered to Harv~ 
.ard for the establishment of scholarship for students 
from Iowa.
Seven fraternity houses at Missouri were flooded 
during the holidays on account of the water pipes 
freezing and bursting.
A paper called the Germ was published by the 
women students at Northwestern who were under 
quarantine last week.
A new system of student self-control has been 
adopted at the University of Wisconsin. Govern
ment of the undergraduates will be vested in a 
student court, which, in addition to its deliberative 
functions, will have power to act finally in cases of 
discipline.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. TaggartAssociate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.As
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ......................................................10 Cents
Student Raites
Yearly ............................................................... $1.00
Single Copy........................................................ 5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must 
be signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
will not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
STUDENT SENATES.
The question of partially or entirely putting the 
control or disciplining and kindred affairs under the 
direct control of the student body, comes up in 
some form or another in the progress of every edu
cational institution existant, with the regularity of 
measels and colds in a well regulated nursery. One 
is not in existence without the other. The time of 
first appearance, the speed of development, and the 
ultimate consequences bear a certain resemblance 
to each other.
While it is perfectly true that our own schools, 
founded in the manner they were for the purpose 
they were, is absolutely unique in this country or 
abroad, the personell of its student body is just ex
actly the same as can be found in any other school, 
college, or university of equal rank anywhere in 
this country. The same problems, therefore loom 
up from time to time, not in the same magnitude or 
order possibly, but just the same pressing needs of 
a great number of healthy men and women gathered 
together for the purpose of getting an education. 
Each case in its particular institution has its little 
differentiations that stamp it as typical of that in
stitution, but in the long run they are just the 
same.. , .
In some instances the need for a student senate 
of gome kind makes itself felt earlier than it might
in others; such was the case in the School of Ap
plied Design, being brought about by different ideas, 
different motives, different ways of thinking, man
aging, and working, than those of either the Science 
or Trade Schools. At the present time, we think 
the Science men are beginning to feel the need or 
at least to appreciate the possibilities of a student 
senate in connection with the workings of 
their own affairs. Whether the Apprentices and 
Journeymen are drifting that way in sentiment is a 
harder question to determine. We would have it 
understood that we do not advocate the immediate 
adoption of the plan in these two schools, but would 
rather urge upon their students the need of more 
quickly paving the way for it.
THISTLE SPROUTING.
The Thistle board have held several meetings 
since being elected and have gotten the work for the 
new book well outlined, and ready to put into ef
fect. There has been much general discussion at the 
meetings of the board as to the manner of getting 
up the volume, what should be the paramount thing 
to strive for, its size, and new features to be added. 
It is the decision of the board, that the book will be 
reduced in size somewhat, and will be bound on the 
long dimention as was done last year. A stronger 
effort will be made to have the artistic features of 
this years Thistle far superior to any gotten out 
so far. The usual conventional pictures of the mem
bers of the Senior Classes, with the write-up, will 
likely be followed, but an entirely different scheme 
has been hit upon for the Junior Classes: as many 
unconventional pictures, snap-shots, etc., of them as 
is possible to obtain will be used for the purpose of 
preserving everyday memories as they commonly 
appear.
This book will be dedicated to the memory of Mr. 
Carnegies mother, Margaret Morrison Carnegie, 
and will contain as handsome a reproduction as the 
board can obtain from one of the several portraits 
of her in existence.
The staff of the board is:
Editor-in-Chief, Lowell W. Nicols; Assistant Editor-n-Chief, Miss Mary Hartman; Business Manager, 
R, B. Wallace; Secretary, Mrs. S. E. Mills; Art Ed
itor, C. E. Moss; Athletic Editor, G. A. Bell. Assist
ants and Associate Editors are to be appointed from 
the membership of the board by the head of each of 
the above departments. The next meeting of the 
board will be held on Thursday, February 10, in 
Room 118, of the A. & J. Building, at 7:30.
THE CLUB HOUSE.
We are informed that the Student Committee ap
pointed by the three schools to make arrangements 
for getting the Club House ready for occupancy and 
to outline the uses to which it shall be put, have 
been since Christmas in lengthy session. At that 
time the Faculty Committee having the house in 
charge requested them to determine what changes

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
were to be made and report the same, and the Stu
dent Activities Committee would foot the bill. Up 
to yesterday afternoon there was nothing doing in 
the way of a report. The Faculty Committee have 
done their part, and it is certainly not too much for 
the student committee to do the same.
THE ESPERANTO SOCIETY OF C. T. S.
Friday, January 21, at 12:30 p. m., the Senior 
Presidents of the four schools met in the Design 
Building at the request of Dr. H. Schanper to or
ganize a society for the study of Esperanto. At the 
meeting were present: Mr. Fields, in his official ca
pacity of Chairman of the Committee on Student 
Activities; Dr. H. Schapper, Miss Oursler, represent
ing the M. M. C. ,S.; Mr. Oetting, for the School of 
Applied Science; Mr. McMurray, for the School for 
Apprentices and Journeymen; Mr. Gilkison for the 
School of Applied Design.
Dr. Schapper addressed the meeting, giving a 
brief outline of the history, aims, uses, and sim
plicity of Esperanto. In conclusion he requested 
the Presidents to place the matter before the student 
body of their several schools.
Mr. Fields made a short address, expressing his 
interest, and endorsing the movement.
On motion, it was decided: That the Esperanto 
Society of C. T. S. be formed, that the class presi
dents, here assembled, recognize and endorse the 
organization in behalf of their respecthe schools; 
that the Executive Committee appointed by the 
class in Esperanto, in the School of Applied Design, 
be appointed a temporary Executive Committee for 
the Society until the final steps in organization are 
completed.
The Committee is now at work compiling a ten
tative Constitution and By-Laws to be presented to 
the Society at an early date.
The object of the Society is to promote interest 
in the study of Esperanto, the international auxiliary 
language, and especially to bring its members into 
contact with the Universal Esperanto Students As
sociation, which has its headquarters in BudajPesth.
In addition to the regular class work the real 
raison detre of the Society, there will be monthly 
meetings at which prominent Esperantists will 
speak, and many matters of interest will be discuss
ed. Several small entertainments in Esperanto are 
projected, contingent upon the progress of the stu
dents in the class work, and the acquirement of 
some degree of proficiency in the use of the lan
guage.
It is the earnest hope of the Committee that large 
classes in all the schools will soon be well under 
way. At present there is an enthusiastic class of 
twenty-five in the School of Applied Design.
Those desiring information in regard to this work 
will confer a favor on the committee by seeing either 
L. H. Seidener or H. P. Smith, in Applied Design.
FACULTY NOTICE.
For mutual convenience, ail members of the 
Faculty of each School (both day and night), are
requested to advise Miss McKee, of the Directors 
personal staff, Room 101, of their present home ad
dress.
WM. P. FIELD,
Secretary.
FIRST YEAR A. & J.
Several meetings have been held lately but the 
men have not attended as they should. The Class 
voted to help the Athletic Association instead of 
supporting teams repi'esenting the Industrial School. 
Now it is up to the Class representatives to get busy 
and see the members of their Classes.
A Class meeting is to be held every Wednesday 
at 12.20 in the Assembly Room. Everybody should 
come and help raise the much-needed Class spirit.
When Glukoff found that he had made the highest 
mark (?) in a Math test, he went down to the of
fice to inquire if the school could use another Math 
instructor.
Did your shoes come from the shoe factory that 
Mr. Williams talks about?
Many thanks! Your green hat is not needed. 
Someone stopped the breezes in the Locker Room.
Nobody has been seen taking their shoes to Me
chanical Hall for repairs any more. No wonder, 
Mr. Schumacher has departed.
We congratulate Mr. Hepburn on the new arrival. 
We are sure Mr. H., Jr., will be an able substitute 
for his father.
Though Mr. Dorweiler is a mathematician, he 
states that Ceasar is divided in three halves.
ARCHITECTS DEFEAT INDUSTRIALS.
Last Thursday in a fast and interesting game at 
Duquesne Garden the Architects defeated the In
dustrials 3-1. Fine team work was displayed by 
both teams, particularly by the Architects in the 
second half, when they won the game by scoring 3 
points. The Architects play Science the next game, 
to be announced later. The score was:
Architects, 3. Industrials, 1.
Einstein ..................................G................................... Glugoff
Stonerod .............................C. P........................... McCracken
Hays ....................................P............................. Minnemeyer
Forst, Gilkison......................C............................... Douglas
Hay ......................................R. W............................ D. Brown
W. Brown, Withers. .. .L. W..................Letsche, Adler
Ericson ...................................R....................................... Steim
GoalsDouglas, Ericson, Hay, W. Brown.
RefereeFlood.
JudgesEngstrom, Crosby.
Time15-minute halves.
P. S.An election was held following the game 
at which E. J. Hatcher was elected Captain and F.
X. Keally, Manager, of the Architects and Letsche,
Manager and Captain of the Industrials.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
FIRST YEAR INDUSTRIALS
A meeting of the first year class, Night Course of 
Applied Science, was held January 21, to attend to 
some business left unfinished when the class was 
organized. President Kelly appointed Mr. Marshall, 
marshall; D. F. McCarthy, Jr., Tartan representa
tive, and Joe Lowe, of the varisity hockey team, 
Athletic representative.
Many members of the Class take little interest in 
its organization. Some have gone so far as to leave 
just before the beginning of the meetings. This is 
not very encouraging, but now that the Class is or
ganized it is hoped that each member will do his 
best for the making of a good Class record.
SECOND YEAR A. & J.
On Friday the Upper Industrial Class elected the 
following officers to serve for the remainder of the 
school year:
PresidentA. E. Johns.
Vice PresidentG. W. McMurray.
SecretaryH. W. Erskine.
TreasurerC. C. Kurz.
!**.iLast Friday a man stopped on his way to a theater 
to place an ad. in the Tartan for a boy. Half an 
hour later one fell from the gallery into his lap.
Tartan ads bring quick results.
It is a very lamentable fact that the Second Year 
Industrials do not appreciate or take enough inter
est in this club. School life is not judged by the 
work accomplished alone, but also by the spirit and 
class associations, and interest the students take in 
Class activities.
McKee (Second Year)Why dont you put your 
uniform on and do a little work?
Heuber (First Year)I dont never put them on 
no more.
Mr. LeighouHas the temperature gone up to
300 degrees yet?
MitchellNo, only 385 degrees.
McCaffery is in favor of getting Class pins, plated 
with fools gold.
Report has it that Mr. McIntosh is very popular 
as a dancing man and conversationalist, with the 
fair sex.
$ -APPLIED DESIGN I
 1
Mr. Bergey is said to be suffering from nervous
prostration, all because Allison showed up at a
calculus class.
The A. D. hockey team are getting nervous. They 
are afraid that the Science Hockey team will not 
come out and meet defeat at their hands. Manager 
Keally has been awaiting an answer to his defi.
A great snowball battle took place, last Thursday, 
between the A. D. and a crowd of Industrials and 
Science. The opposition did more damage to the 
windows of Dean McGoodwins office than to our 
boys, although Roses upper lip made him look like 
a candidate for New York foorce.
Rigaumont and King took the 48 hour esquisse for 
the Warren prize; ftid from their appearance after, 
one would think that they had just stepped off a 
fast freight at the nearest water tank. The work 
seems to have the same effect as overland travel.
iSMSMSISJSMSMiSMMSMSMSJSJEMSMSMSISMSJelMSMSJP
SECOND YEAR INDUSTRIALS
cil3JSM3JSJ3M3I3MiSMBMSJ3E3JBMS13MSi3ISlSJ 3JSJSMSJ [y
Last Friday evening the Tech Mechanics Club 
held an open smoker in the Assembly Room, to 
which all the A. & J. Instructors, headed by Mr. 
Connelley, and a number of the Night Classes, par
took of the hospitality of the Second Year Class.
The first sad event of the evening was the ren
dering of Coming Home Full of Rye, by Mr. 
Whyte, of the machine shop.
The next specialty was a skirt dance by Mr. Wil
liams, with Mr. Hamilton taking the part of a 
batch in the bald head row.
Then the Club President, A. E. Johns, introduced 
Mr. Dodge, and the moving pictures of the first game 
of the worlds series at Forbes Field.
Lunch was served, and after more moving pic
tures, the smoke became so thick that it was im
possible to hear Alexanders phonograph. The even
ing was enjoyably spent by all.
Mr. Pfouts (in commons, to waitress)Are these 
cold storage eggs, or country eggs?
WaitressThose are hens eggs.
The University of Nevada has campus rule that 
no Junior shall wear a sombrero hat.
jg THE JUNIOR PROMENADE, >r.i.t fir$ THE RITTENHOUSE.
 FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIRST. j3

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
PERTINENT 
AND 
IMPERTINENT
The Senior Class in Metallurgy is making a 
whirlwind getaway.
Prof. Crabtree returned from his inspection trip 
(consisting of ore-dressing plants, theaters, etc.), in 
time to answer Here at Saturday night's dance.
We understand that a lurid haze still hangs over 
Washington.
Ezra Kendall used to tell us that the ceiling in his 
room was so low that he had t-o look between his 
feet to see out of the window. Mr. Ten-foot Brown 
applies this principle to mine-surveying.
Jimmy Beeken was never before accused of be
ing yellow.
McCorkles inspection week:
MondayNeville street.
TuesdayNeville street.
WednesdayNeville street.
ThursdayWith Neville street.
FridayAt Neville street.
SaturdayAt Neville street.
Repeat ad lib.
It is said that Teo also found a little time to study 
geology.
Come out to the Prom. Forget about the morn
ing after.
P. S.You certainly owe it to her.
The Old Clo Man's mottoThe Lord helps 
those who help themselves.
The Sigma Taus sequal: The Lord help any 
body~ caught helping themselves here.
Waxman had a terrible dream. One of the pro
fessors suddenly asked him what made a car go, 
and for the life of him he could not say. Finally, as 
he was about to venture personal magnetism as a 
shot at it, somebody dropped Hibbert and he 
woke up with a start.
It costs money to be brightrecently the Junior 
Electricals have enjoyed three successive treats at 
the Commons, due to three thankfuls who didnt 
flunk.
Mr. Denton has been to Chicago on a consulting 
problem in electrical transmission. While there he 
was almost held up and robbed!
Bright danced till 4 A. M. and rose at 7 the same 
morning.
Doctor Sill has been sick for about two weeks. 
He has now been removed to the hospital. We hope 
for his early recovery.
Harry W. MoKee, of Woodlawn Cottage, when the 
alarm went off in the morning, All right, all right!
Mr. Denton, of the Electrical Department, sails 
from New York on February 16th for a visit of a 
fortnight to England.
ExtraNon-unionist strike. Junior Civils walk 
out. Result of the study of economics. Believe in 
the Normal Day.
We are glad to say that Prof. Doyle has almost re
covered from a recent operation and is once more 
on the job.
A leter was received from the Director before he 
left New York on his way to Europe. It contained 
his good wishes to all the members of the Faculty.
Woodlawn Cottage Club and the Sigma Tau House 
have religiously kept their doors locked all week.
---------HIGH LOW----------
Jack and the Qame]
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENERS
&S Frankstown EAST
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
RESOURCES OVER ONE MILLION DOLLARS 
DEPOSITS OVER NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS 
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
A bank that is strong in Assets, in Men, in Courtesy.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
STUDIES OF THE VERNACULAR.
Saylil! exclaimed the girl at the handkerchief 
counter.
Wotsmatter now? asked the girl at the ribbon 
counter.
Aintchoogittin nufteet?
Wojjaskin thatfur?
Yooralookinkina thin.
Aintnuther!
Yartoo. Betterficksher bacq hair. Scummin 
down.
Quitcherrubberin. Mine jeroan biz.
But she fixed her back hair.
Saylil!
Saycheseff.
Jevvergitcherforchun told?
Yehwunsertwice. Ever gitchoors?
Yeh. Ootole juh?
Erdkitsmith sayinso. Cumtroo?
Notchett.
Thinkitwill?
Lykaznot. Letchoono fit does.
Sayjen. Juno Kittenbills keepin cumpny?
Awka moff!
Stroo zima stannineer.
Howjeerit?
Sallright. Yooleerabout it soonuff. Sayjen, 
canchooketch on
Say, there, you girls! interrupted the floorwalker, 
who happened along at this moment. Go back 10 
your customers!C. W. Taylor, in the Chicago 
Tribune.
A SERIOUS LOVE SPELL.
A young lady sits in our choir,
Whose hair is the color of foir,
But her charm is unique,
She has such a fair chique,
It is really a joy to be nhoir.
Whenever she looks down the aisle 
She gives me a beautiful smaisle;
And of all of her beaux,
I am certain she sheaux 
That she likes me the best all the whaisle.
Last Sunday she wore a new sacque,
Low cut in the front and the bacque;
And a lovely bouquet,
Worn in such a cute wuet 
As only few girls have the knacque.
Some day ere she grows too antique,
In marriage her hand I shall sique,
If shes not a coquette
Which Id greatly regrette
She shall share my two sovereigns a wique.
Answers.
It was a dark night. A man was riding a bicycle 
with no lamp. He came to a crossroads, and did not 
know which way to turn. He felt in his pocket for 
a match. He found but one. Climbing to the top 
of the pole, he lit the match carefully and in the en
suing glimmer read:
WET PAINT.
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to $8.
tto etting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield r
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you can't 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
You should see the fine line of Cards, Valentines, 
etc., at Singers, 21G Oliver avenue.
Why use a badleaking pen? Singer Pen Store 
can fix you up sure.
A challenge to a contest in aeronautics, issued by 
the Aero Club of Columbia, has been accepted by 
Harvard, Amherst and Pennsylvania, and arrange
ments are being made for an aviation meet in June.
CASEY AT THE BAT.
At its recent 25th anniversary at Cambridge, the 
class of 1885 spent part of its time compiling a list 
of some of its well known members and what they 
have done. The following is reprinted from The 
Harvard Bulletin:
Another member who adds lustre to the fame of 
85 is Ernest L. Thayer, the author of that famous and 
almost classic poem Casey at the Bat. There is 
hardly a baseball enthusiast in America who does not 
know these verses. Its authorship used to be in 
doubt, but it is so no longer. Thayer still keeps his 
legal residence in Worcester, Mass., but is not in 
active business. The following clipping from a Bos
ton newspaper tells how Casey at the Bat was 
brought to the attention of De Wolf Hopper, who first 
gave it is great popularity:
Probably as long as De Wolf Hoppers name is be
fore the public it will be connected with that familiar 
epic, Casey at the Bat. No matter what role Hopper 
is palying or in what part of the country he is, his 
audience always insists upon Casey. Mr. Hopper 
was asked how he secured the poem.
 Now, thereby hangs a story, he answered. It 
was long before Wang ever saw the light. It was 
in 1887 that Archibald Clavering Gunter sent Casey 
to me. He never said where he got it but merely 
requested that I should read it over and recite it the 
next day when the Chicago and New York baseball 
clubs would be in the house. I looked at it and 
nearly fainted. We were playing at Wallacks then, 
and I was in no mood to get anything in shape. My 
son was ill with diphtheritic sore throat and I be
lieved he was going to die. I told McCall I couldnt 
do it, and that was all there was to it. The next day 
at 1 oclock I got a wire that the boy would pull 
through all right and I sat down with Casey at 3 
oclock in the afternoon.
!yne.Best Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST.
 OAKLAND
* Phone: 1554 .Schenley.
| ALTERATION SALE
$ BIG REDUCTIONS
j BIG BARGAINS
> ComeSee the Money you can save.
THE DON SEELE PHOTO STUDIO
FORBES BUILDING, OAKLAND 
Forbes and Atwood Streets
Forbes Street Cars Pass the Door 
Fifth Avenue Cars One Block North
SIPES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
KERMAN H. ADAM
Dealer In 
CHOICE FAMILY GROCERIES 
No. 405 Dithridge Street
Bell Telephone 178 Schenley
'*******
P. SCHIEFER CO.
Dealer In Sausages, Puddings, Etc. 
CHOICE BEEF, PORK, LAMB AND VEAL 
Stands 144-146 Liberty Market, E. E., Pittsburgh, P.
Bell 2572 Highland P. S A. 1271-X
**t+*****<*
**
?***>
f
?
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
Beginning with the first Sunday night in Feb
ruary, Dr. Coyle will give a series of Bible 
studies in the Book of Genesis.
Subjects.
Feb. 6thThe Creation of the Heaven and the 
Earth.
Feb. 13thThe Creation of Man and the Garden 
of Eden.
Feb. 20thThe Origin of Evil and the Dawn of 
Hope.
Feb. 27thThe Conflict between Good and Evil.
**4****I
t
****i*****
N\N\\\VNS\mNV\NV\S\\\\\%N\VV\\V\\>t OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET $'A Dealers in g
$ BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA AND * 
$ COFFEE ?
2 3714 FORBES STREET > Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley <
N\\SNN\\SN\\\NN\\\\N\N\N\V\\\\%\\\\>
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.
'4 THE junior promenade. i
8^ THE RITTENHOUSE. 
FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIRST. ^

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
xQ\%&xmv%v\vsa%0%v\vs&%&x0%m%&%-x0%0%c>xox0%a\o\o%0%0\vx0%%v%0%0\0%0%0\ 
IF1. LUnBBUEHL z SOIST 1
MPENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E.
The New Creation for Men 
"TAN VIKING CALF Button and Blucher$4.00 and $5.00 the pair
O%O%O%OVO%O%OXO%O:%a%O%0%OXO%0\O%O\O3O\O%O\O\0\O%O^o^rt%n%-rvvr^ *o\o\Cii*O\O'\O*0*d
 If Casey is anything it is a mile long. I had 
it, however, within an hour, and it kept going through 
my mind. We were playing Castles in the Air, 
then. Well, the night performance came around and 
in the boxes sat the two ball teams. There was old 
Anson, Ewing, and other famous ball palyers. To 
make a long story short I pulled Casey on them, 
and it made an enormous hit.
 After the show I hunted up Gunter and asked him 
the name of the man who wrote Casey. He said he 
didnt know and told me that he had cut it out of a 
San Francisco paper some time before, because it 
had made an impression on him. Will you believe 
me, I tried for four years to find the man who wrote 
that thing!
 One night I was playing Wang in Worcester, 
nearly five years afterward, and I got a note at the 
theater which asked me if I would come around to a 
club I know after the show and meet the author of 
Casey. I went and was introduced to Ernest L. 
Thayer, a manufacturer of Worcester, a charming 
fellow; every one knew him and liked him. There 
you are. 
BASHFULNESS.
Once there was a pensive youth,
Ill not disclose his name,
He loved full well a maiden fair, 
Shes not unknown to fame.
The maid was somewhat bashful, 
And the lad was more than shy;
So he never said, I love you, 
Though she often wondered why.
For she gave him many chances,
Put them kindly in his way;
But the youth to shy to see them, 
Only sighed his heart away.
And so the two did pine and grieve, 
Bereft of joy and laughter,
Until he sighed his breath away, 
And the maiden followed after.
The Standard of Excellence
MacDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
DRAWING AND 
ARTISTS MATERIALS
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279.
\sssssss%\s\\\\\\%\\\\\\x\\%\s\xsxss
| Well Pressed is Well Dressed
2 LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO. 
O301 South Craig Street
R. W. MEDICK
CHOICE HOME DRESSED MEATS AND 
POULTRY
Both Phones 3804 Forbes Street
$
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores of
GEO, K, STEVENSON & CO.
q Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
T Down Town East End
-V-A A ^ y* yg0X0X0%0%**0*0X**0X0X0XXX0X0%0\0\0%0%
imE (AmEdbEl CBHa
THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and 
profit.
HOTEL SCHENLEY $
Pittsburgh, Pa. *
CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND t
DANCES. %
Phone 248 Schenley.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
Of the six fraternity house fires at Cornell during 
the last eleven years one has occurred in each of the 
past four years. The financial loss aggregates $340,-
997.33. Two of the fires resulted in the sacrifice of 
human life, eight men being the victims. Most of 
the fraternity houses at Ithaca are situated upon a 
hill which is protected from fire by a single ineffi
cient chemical apparatus. In the case of the recent 
fire in the Delta Upsilon fraternity house, a period 
of over an hour elapsed between the discovery of 
the fire and the time when the first effective stream 
was turned upon the flames.
Yale football men will begin practice next week.
Frank C. Longman, coach of Notre Dames foot
ball team in 1909, has been re-elected for the coming 
season. Longman is a former Michigan star.
An honorary college journalistic fraternity has 
been established by students of Syracuse University. 
The name of Pi Delta Epsilon is taken. The object 
of the club is to stimulate interest in college journal
ism. The candidates will have to serve two years on 
a college daily, or must have been an undergrauate 
editor-in-chief.
An experiment is being conducted at the University 
of Ottawa, Kansas, to find out how the students 
spend their time.
The College of Agriculture won the inter-college 
cross country race at Cornell.
All members of the Sophomore Class at the Uni
versity of Washington who did not take part in the 
underclass scrap three weeks ago are to be ducked 
in the lake by the members of their own class.

$25,000 has been contributed by Andrew Carnegie 
toward the endowment of St. Thomas College.
Low moans and muttered curses are emanating 
from the Senior Miners and Metallurgists. The sched
ule has changed from bad to worse (like Griffs 
luck). Oy, Gewalt.
Deaconess Sanford, the head of the Church Train
ing and Deaconess House, has the honor of being 
the only woman in this country who has received 
the degree of S.T.D. from the University of Oxford, 
in England, that title having been conferred upon 
her a few weeks since.
APPROACHING COMET.
In the month of June or thereabouts we are prom
ised a sight of an interesting comet, now traveling 
towards the earth at the almost incredibly terrific 
speed of two and half millions of miles per day.
It is an interesting comet for a number of reasons. 
Seventy-five years have elapsed since it was last 
seen, besides which it did not only put in an appear
ance at the time of the Norman Conquest-but also 
two hundred years before the Christian era.
We are told that, in June next, the comet may be 
seen without the aid of a telescope.
0X0X0X0\0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0\0X0X 
0 $ Tech Barber Shop I
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STREETS
00X0XOX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X 
9p6K96969S963696969S9S9S96969696S6969S9S9S96969S9fa6969S9S9S96969S969(
* R E Y M ER S
2 There are no other
 candies quite so gocd asA R E Y M ER S
*XXXXXXVXXX%XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXXXXX
gX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XX0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0X*
0
0OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO. 
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest Dyeing and ft 
Cleaning Works 2
City Office631 Penn Avenue 0
East End OfficeS. Highland Ave. & Baum St. 0 
QX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X03?
B. K. Elliott Co
PERFECT FITTING EYE* 
GLASSES AND 
SPECTACLES08 Sixth St. (Bessemer Building)
i PITTSBURGH w
> -  VALENTINE POST CARDS, 1c, 2c, AND 5c3K 1
Cute novelties to sen dto your friends,5 Sift #K
g cents and up. Pretty favors for Valentine  
g* partiesTally Cards; Place Cards; Ice Cream 
in Heart Shapes, $1.50 a dozen.
1 HALLERS 1
^ 3618 Forbes Avenue, Iroquois Bldg.
^  
m&sreaaaaQK soaere88888888888888888888?

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
H. L. BLIND & BROSonoto pens
Self Filling Fountain Pens, every piece 
and part of which is covered by a binding 
guarantee for workmanship and operative 
efficiency.
See them demonstrated$2.50, $3.00, 
$4.00, $5.00, $6.50, $S.oo.
inters$ Bts Unn tTTU$EtR$
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARQ
EST ASSORTMENT
Down Town Store:
Bell 1101 Court 
P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY 8c FIFTH ST.
East End Store:
Bell 5500 Highland 
P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE,
ire the Largest Manufacturers in the World oi
OFFICIAL 
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
,G SEnnE are interested In nn ,.. Athletic Sport you 
should have a copy of the 
Spalding Catalogue. Its a 
complete encyclopedia o f 
WHATS NEW IN SPORT 
and is sent free on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa.
GPO LYCHA,ND
TRADE MARK
WOMEN
SHOES THAT ARE 
BETTER AND LOOK IT
Is known throughout the 
wor!d as a Guarantee of 
Quality.435-437 Wood Street 4.? * 4,<*4,4,4,,4",4,li"M,4"H,4!4,4,t4,4,4,4i4,4,,,4,4,,,'4*4'
I3c "Z"-u. Know
that we print more hooks than atiy firmin the East End ?...........................................X> "2"Oil -SliO-W
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine
Printing ?............................................................
X)o "S"oii Kno-w
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service come to .
SF-A-me 3z.
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street
Mr. H. J. 2THEARNhe Mgr , Tartan, is 
our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
The S. Hamilton Co
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
PITTSBURG, PA
1 MELLON NATIONAL BANKA. W. SMITH CO
514 SMITHFI ELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUEFioWsts
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OFLargest, finest, and best equipped florist es
tablishment in America.STUDENTS
Represented in all large cities 
KEENAN BUILDINGCAPITAL
SURPLUS & PROFITSLiberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa,
XOXaX0XaXaX0X0X0X0XaX0XOX0XOXOXaX0X0 0*0*0*C^0*0*0*0*0*0*C
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU'RE FROM TECH
