The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 38CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1944
Only 20% Contribute 
To Blood Bank Drive; 
Tau Delts Give 100%
In the Red Cross blood drive held 
at Carnegie Tech during the past 
week, only 20% of the entire school 
participated. The percentages of 
sorority and fraternity members 
taking part in the drive are as fol
lows:
Sororities
Alpha Epsilon Phi.............. 80%
Chi Omega ........................... 25%
Delta Delta Delta................ 14%
Delta Gamma ..................... 47%
Gamma Gamma Gamma.. 10%
Kappa Alpha Theta..............38%
Kappa Kappa Gamma ... 48% 
Fraternities
Beta Sigma Rho................. 0%
Beta Theta Pi ..................... 38%
Delta Tau Delta ................. 30%
Delta Upsilon ..................... 50%
Kappa Sigma ............... 25%
Phi Kappa ........................... 25%
Sigma Alpha Epsilon___33%
Tau Delta Phi......................100%
Theta Xi ............................... 10%
The sororities led the fraternities 
in the drive, having 38% of their 
members in the ranks as compared 
with 35% for the fraternities. 
Dividing the contributors as to 
Continued on page 4
War Fund Drive Nets 
95.5 Per cent Quota
The results of the United War 
Fund Drive, as announced by Mr. 
Kent Shaffer, head of the drive at 
Carnegie, indicate that the faculty, 
maintenance staff, and the student 
body have achieved the almost un
believable figure of 95.5% of the 
quota set for the contribution from 
Carnegie. The schools which par
ticipated in the drive exceeded their 
quota in subscribing to the extent of 
111% of the required amount. The 
final figures for Carnegie are as fol
lows:
Total Carnegie Quota: $5,500.00. 
Total Subscribed. $5,254.92 or 
95.5%.
Quota for faculty and staff: 
$4,750.00.
Totaled subscribed: $4,255.92 or 
89.5%.
Quota for student body: $750.00. 
Total subscribed: $1,005.00 or
134%.-
Site fan. One SvoceAA^ul
Endowment Benefit Nets $14,100 
For Campus Building Fund
A check for $14,000, proceeds from 
the highly successful Six for One 
Benefit, was presented at noon, No
vember 16, to President Robert E. 
Doherty. Presenting the gift, which 
is to be added to the Carnegie Tech 
Endowment Fund, was Mrs. W. W. 
Slocum, general chairman of the 
Womens Carnegie Endowment 
Fund committee, which sponsored 
the benefit. Also present were the 
members of the general commitee, 
Mrs. R. E. Doherty, Mrs. A. H. McKean, and Mrs. L. P. Pittock.
The benefit was held September 
23, and exceeded all expectations, 
contributions pouring in at such a 
rate that tabulation of the final re
sults was only recently completed.
Concerning the success of the 
event, Mrs. Slocum, general chair
man, stated, The women chairmen 
and committee members were mar
velous. To them and to everyone 
who contributed money or time, or 
cooperated in any way to the very 
successful outcome, I wish to ex
press my personal thanks and ap
preciation..
Some of the individual booths 
which made large contributions 
were the needlework booth, which 
cleared $1125, the Harvest booth, 
$720, food booth, $150, Bingo, $150, 
Weavers booth, $130, victory booth, 
$80, and sketching, $25. Some of the 
committee results revealed that the 
sponsors committee raised $5212, 
and shoulder ornaments netted $600.
Alpha Epsilon Phi 
Sponsors Bond Drive
November 20 was the opening for 
the sixth national War Loan drive 
in which Carnegie has a definite ob
ligation to fulfill. Bonds of any ser
ies and of any denomination are 
being sold on campus. Stamp books 
also will be exchanged for bonds.
Bond orders may be placed as fol
lows:
1. Fill out blank and send it with 
check to Room 101 Gymnasium.
2. Check and order may be given 
to any of the following representa
tives: Miss Richards, Mr. Twiggs, 
Mr. Dennison, Mr. Alexander, Mr. 
Wangeman.
3. Bring check to the Bond Center 
at the entrance to Administration 
Hall. This center will be open daily
 except Saturday  between the 
hours of 12:00 and 2:00 from No
vember 20 through December 1.
This gave us the spirit to go 
ahead, Mrs. Slocum commented.
Every phase of the benefit was 
made use of by the sponsors to add 
to the endowment fund, Mrs. Slo
cum explained, as shown by the 
fact that the prizes awarded to the 
bridge winners were more than paid 
for by extra prizes which were pro
cured and sold.
Other interesting methods of in
creasing the financial success of the 
affair showed cleverness and good 
management. Three hundred fifty 
table covers, stenciled with thistles, 
were prepared by Miss Helen Topp, 
and a great many were sold.
Carnegies Birthday 
Celebrated Today
To commemorate the one hundred 
and ninth birthday of Andrew Car
negie, a special convocation assem
bly was held at 11:00 on Tuesday, 
November 21, in the Little Theater. 
In addition to a few student pre
sentations, Willibald Trinks, Pro
fessor Emeritus, guest speaker, pre
sented the development of the cam
pus from its earliest beginnings as 
an ordinary trade school to its pres
ent technological status. He showed 
slides of early campus personalities, 
the campus under construction, and 
early campus activities.
Professor Trinks, who retired two 
years ago, came to Carnegie Tech in 
1905 and is well acquainted with the 
school. While here, he acted as head 
of the Department of Engineering 
and was well-known as an authority 
on rolling mill and furnace design.
Thanks !
At the meeting of the Executive Board on November 14, 1944, it was 
voted on recommendation of the Committee on Calendar and Schedules 
that no day, evening, or part-time classes be held on Friday, November 
24, and Saturday, November 25.
(signed) Austin Wright,
Secretary, Executive Board.
Volleyball Play 
Begins Raggedly
1st Weeks Competition 
Shows Lack of Practice
Play was ragged in the opening 
games of the Intramural volleyball 
league last week. Probably none of 
the teams had bothered with a prac
tice, and many of the newcomers 
had never seen a spiking game. The 
singular fact about the first weeks 
competition was this: no match 
went more than two games.
In the opener on Thursday, No
vember 9, the formidable Alleyrats 
downed Theta Xi 21-6, 21-12. The 
following day Gamma Phi Nu took 
another two-game match from Cam
eron Hall 21-5, 21-11. Apparently the 
Gamma Phi Nus are the stronger of 
the two Delt house teams, for the 
Rho Zeta Pis were pathetic in los
ing to a feeble SAE team 21-12, 21-
15. Cameron Hall came back in 
some fashion, starting to spike, and 
headed off the Theta Xis last 
Thursday 21-16, 21-17. This was the 
second game for each team, and, of 
course, the play was greatly im
proved on each side.
In the course of the coming week, 
the question of comparing the 
teams will be largely cleared up, 
and standings will take on signifi
cance. ,
World War Veterans 
Form Campus Group 
For Mutual Support
Tecvets is a soon-to-be official 
organization on the Tech campus. 
The club is made up of all World 
War II veterans who have now re
turned to the college campus to 
complete their education, and, of 
course, all ex-service women, as 
well as men, regardless of race or 
religion, are admitted. As yet there 
are no ex-service women at Tech, 
but in the years to come there will 
undoubtedly be many.
The club had its beginning a few 
weeks ago when Mr. Davis of the 
Carnegie branch of the YMCA gave 
a dinner for the men. It was at that 
dinner that Aubrey Caplan suggest
ed that the men organize. The idea 
was so enthusiastically received 
that they immediately formed a 
constitution committee so that the 
organization could proceed offi
cially.
Tecvets derives its name from 
an obvious source and has a multi
fold purpose. First, of course, is the 
social side, with plans in progress 
for school dances as well as private 
smokers, parties, etc. A further pur
pose is to take care of the academic 
side of the veterans college life 
with aid to be given to any veteran 
who desires help with his studies, 
or with readjustments to civilian 
and college life. In general, the club 
hopes to keep together those men 
(and women) who have their serv
ice in the armed forces in common,

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1944
dUtosih Ansnckain... A.C.A.C. Minutes...
Trouble In Texas
Liberal education has suffered another blow, one so serious that every 
college student in this country should be concerned. Dr. Homer P. Rainey, 
progressive and popular president of the University of Texas since 1939, 
was summarily dismissed from his post by the Board of Regents after a 
long and unsuccessful fight against the virtual dictatorship of this gov
erning body.
Dr. Raineys long-standing struggle with the Regents dates back to 
1940, when he refused to dismiss three members of the faculty without a 
hearing. Two years later, three other professors were fired, against his 
advice, for expressing opinions unbecoming a faculty member, and last 
year the publicity director of the university was removed without charges 
and without a hearing. Two months ago, President Rainey was advised not 
to make so many speeches, and on November 1st the fight was climaxed 
by his dismissal.
This action has evoked an immediate and vociferous protest of the 
Texan students and of progressive organization throughout the nation, and 
rightly so. For the matter is characteristic of the attitude of similar gov
erning bodies of educational institutions in many states, and shows once 
again the dire need for a sharp curtailment of their virtual stranglehold on 
the American colleges. The Board of Regents of state-owned universities, 
and the Board of Trustees of private institutions are necessary to supervise 
the financial affairs of the colleges, and, to a certain extent, formulate their 
external policies, i. e. their relationship to the outside world. At no 
time, we believe, should one of these Boards, composed of persons 
with little or no experience in the educational field, exert any power on 
the internal administration of the university, unless this administration 
definitely affects either of the matters we have just mentioned. Regents 
and Trustees should not tell a professor how to teach, and what to teach, 
what to emphasize, and what to omit. In grade or even high school this 
may be permissible, for the youth of the students does not enable them 
to be critical of the opinions of their teachers. But in a college, if it is 
truly an institution of higher learning, such action is not only a flagrant 
violation of the freedom of speech, but a downright insult to the students, 
for it indicates that they are unable to form their own conclusions on con
troversial issues.
We pay tribute to the students of the University of Texas, and to their 
president, Malcolm Wallace, for their courageous and outspoken stand on 
this matter. Until their efforts are crowned with success, the Lone Star 
flag on their campus can truly remain at half-mast, for without academic 
freedom, there can be no higher education, and without the latter, no 
progress.
V*/: L -I-. x , E. A. L.
Veteran Center
A Veterans Center has been established at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology as an administrative unit of the Division of Student Personnel and 
Welfare. This center will be responsible for providing information, coun
sel, and guide service for students who are veterans, and for maintaining 
effective liaison between the Veterans Administration and C. I. T.
Professor William R. Work has been appointed head of the Veterans 
Center, effective November 1, 1944. In order that he may continue as 
Assistant Director of the College of Engineering and also have time for his 
duties as head of the Veterans Center, it has been necessary to relieve him 
of his responsibilities as head of the Department of Electrical Engineering.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Trustees on October 
30, 1944, Professor B. R. Teare, Jr., was appointed head of the Department 
of Electrical Engineering, effective November 1, 1944.
ROBERT E. DOHERTY.
Sijctlt 'Wan, J!.oan~/Zuif. Mane*Ilian fe&jane
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ftaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Scheniey Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
raONK MAYFLOWER 200 PHONE SCHENLEY 456?
MPHIHNTID PO* NATIONAL ADVKHTISINS BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Ave. New York. N. Y. 
Chicago  Boston  Los Amoclcs  8a* Francisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief..........Emerson 1808
Business Manager........Jackson 9896
Enter* as seconfl-cMu matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 187. 
Published weekly during school year, except holiday and examination period. 
Sabscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editors-in-Chief ...................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Business Manager........................................................................................... Paul Schucker
Managing Editor.............................................................................................. Clara Herron
News Editor ......................'. .............................................................................. Dottie King
Copy Editor.......................................................................................................Augie Binder
Headline Editor.....................................................................................Mary Jane Horridge
Advertising Manager..........................................................................................Joel Bigelman
Circulation Manager ......................................................................................... Sam Marcus
Sports Editor ................... .............................................................................. Tom Bokman
Photographers.........................................................Dan Franks, Ken Lipman, Pat Baum
Reporters: Mary Pat Bruso, Ann Daniels, Lou Emmel, Dick Eschenbach, Boo Girts, 
Imogene Grove, Jane Hussy, Lillian Jacobs, Rosemarie Lang, Anita Newell, 
Georgette Pal jug, Harry Silverman, Clark Sloan, Dale Wright, Audrey Wilkins.
Fifty-eighth Meeting 
November 15, 1944
The meeting was called to order at 5:00 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Daniels, Lowenstein,
and Snow; Misses Barclay, Ferraez, Gar
land, Swaney, and Werner.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Constitutional Committee
Miss Barclay presented a proposed con
stitution which is to replace the A.C.A.C. 
Constitution now being followed. Miss 
Garland moved that the name of the stu
dent governing body be changed from 
Army-Civilian Activities Committee to 
ACTIVITIES COUNCIL.
Motion carried.
Mr. Snow moved that the consideration 
of the proposed constitution be tabled un
til the next meeting.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Interhonorary Council
Miss Barclay moved that the following 
revised freshman regulations submitted 
by Interhonorary Council be accepted:
Section ICampus Traditions
1. Freshmeh must know the history of 
Carnegie Tech and all the songs and yells 
in the Freshman Handbook (Plebe Bible).
2. All freshmen must speak to all mem
bers of either sex, including both upper
classmen and freshmen, on the.campus.
3. Identification symbols:
a. Freshmen boys are required to 
wear the traditional Tech dink 
and plaid tie. Freshmen boys in 
the Art School will be supplied 
with a special Windsor tie.
b. Freshmen girls will be required 
to wear:
1.) Tech armbands designating 
their respective schools.
2.) Regulation Tech dinks.
c. The above articles will be sup
plied to the freshmen at registra
tion and must be worn by them 
at all times while on campus.
d. All regulations must be sold to 
freshmen at cost through the In
terhonorary Council.
4. Freshmen must join in all-college 
rallies.
5. Freshmen must attend all assemblies.
6. Freshmen must give preference to 
upperclassmen in the halls, on the stairs, 
and on the walks.
7. All freshmen are punishable for 
gross disrespect to upperclassmen.
8. Freshmen must not display any pre
paratory school insignia or letters at any 
time while on the campus.
9. No freshman may sit on the Senior 
Fence at any time.
10. No freshman may walk on the 
Senior Walk at any time.
Section HPeriod of Regulations
1. The period shall start the first day 
of school and shall end when the fresh
man passes the traditions examination.
Section mTraditions Exam
1. Exams will be offered weeklythe 
first one to be given approximately one 
month after registration.
2. The Alpha Phi Omega will prepare, 
present, and correct the exams; and will 
post lists of those who have successfully 
passed each week.
3. They will decide the time and the 
place for the exam and will notify the 
freshmen.
4. The exam will be corrected imme
diately upon completion.5. The exam will increase in difficulty 
from week to week.
6. The passing grade for the exam will 
be seventy percent.
7. No freshman shall be seen without 
his regulations except:
a. Off campus.
b. At recognized school dances.
Section IV
1. All students classified by the school 
as freshmen shall be subject to these reg
ulations, with the following exception: 
Freshmen who have passed through the 
full freshman regulations at this or any 
other school may, at the option of the 
chairman of Interhonorary Council, be 
exempt.
Section VPledges
1. Freshmen and upperclassmen shall 
sign pledges at registration promising 
their full cooperation with this plan with 
the understanding that hazing is forbid
den.
Section VIMargaret Morrison Carnegie 
College
1. All freshmen must use left hand 
stairway and bulletin board.
2. Freshmen must sit in the back rows 
at assemblies and leave after the upper
classmen have left.
College of Fine Arts
1. Freshmen must use the side doors 
only.-
2. Freshmen must sit in the front seats 
at all college assemblies.
Administration Building
1. Freshmen may not use the main 
entrance of the Administration Building.
Section VII
1. Freshman trials are held once a 
week for all three colleges in order to 
punish those freshmen who have failed 
to live up to the regulations, as stated in 
this book. These trials will be conducted 
by the Interhonorary Council.
Section VIH
1. Discharged Veterans returning as 
freshmen will be asked whether or not 
they will cooperate with freshman regu
lations. Those who will, must sign pledge 
cards. Those who will not, will be given 
Freshman Regulations Exemption Cards.
Motion carried.
Miss Ferraez moved that Interhonorary 
Council be granted permission to hold an 
informal dance on December 9, 1944, in 
Thistle Hall. Hours for the dance will 
begin immediately after the basketball 
game and continue until 1:00 a.m.
Motion carried.
M. M. Senior Class
M. M. Senior Class petitioned A.C.A.C. 
for permission to change the date of their 
Thanksgiving party from Friday, Novem
ber 17, 1944, to November 29, 1944, and 
also the hours for 8:00 to 11:30 p.m. to 
7:00 to 10:00 p.m. Miss Garland moved 
that this request be granted.
Motion carried.
Theta Tau
Theta Tau reported that the Bridge 
Tournament which they are sponsoring 
has not been started because there have 
not been sufficient entries. Theta Tau 
said that the Bridge Tournament would 
begin just as soon as enough entries are 
received.
Womens Dormitory Council
Miss Garland moved that Womens 
Dormitory Council be granted permission 
to hold a party for the Freshman Dor
mitory girls on November 21, 1944, at 
Whitfield Hall between 6:30 and 8:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
C.W.C.A.
Miss Garland moved that C.W.C.A. be 
granted permission to hold a dinner meet
ing with the Pitt and P.C.W. women on 
November 16, 1944, at 6:00 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Union.
Motion carried.
Budgets
Mr. Daniels submitted budgets of C.I.T. 
student organizations which are to be 
approved at the next meeting. Mr. 
Daniels stated that Citcom and Interhon
orary Council had not submitted budgets 
for 1944-45, and the budgets of the Kiltie 
Band and Mens Glee Club had been re
turned to their respective organizations 
for revision. Mr. Daniels asked that these 
four budgets be submitted as soon as 
possible.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Berenice Barclay, 
Secretary.
Basketball Team Gets 
New Uniform For Games
An innovation this season will be 
the showing of respectable uni
forms. For the first time in five 
years, the team will be properly 
dressed. There have always been 
two sets of uniforms, one with white 
shirts, and the other with red, but, 
in the past two years, moths got into 
the red and did a good deal of dam
age. So, mainly due to the fact that 
the school cant send its players out 
indecently exposed, new uniforms 
have been purchased. In fact, even 
warm-up jumpers have been order
ed, but will be delayed at the fac
tory. ' .
Since all of the men out for the 
team have attended so regularly, 
they may be divided into senior and 
junior varsity teams, allowing the 
J. V.s to play preliminary games. 
There should be no serious problem 
in finding adequate competition, and 
this measure would add greatly to 
the varsity games.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
On Second Thought;
To anyone as little of an expert in 
the theater as I, the review of the 
second cast of a production is es
pecially difficult after witnessing 
the performance of the first one. For 
the persons in the play seem to have 
assumed, inthe laymans mind, 
permanently the characterizations 
given to them by the first cast, and 
any deviations, however good they 
may be, disturb the naive mind of 
the uninitiated. This alone may ac
count for the fact that I preferred, 
on the whole, the first cast of the 
Drama Departments current pro
duction, The Years of the Locust, 
to the second one. And, maybe, that 
also explains why I, at my second 
viewing of the play, was even more 
enraptured by the one permanent 
part of the production: Lloyd
Weningers magnificent sets. With 
an austere simplicity of backdrops, 
and a bare minimum of properties, 
the set, more perhaps than some of 
the members of the casts, portray
ed the serenity of religion.
Kay Cook, as Mother Prioress, en
hanced her good technique with her 
beautiful voice, especially in the 
first and third acts, but failed to 
equal Lynn Blooms radiant inter
pretation of the leading character. 
Theo Dunkelman was excellent 
when she displayed the strength of 
Dame Patrick, but, handicapped per
haps by her high voice, her forcefulCOMPLIMENTS OF
Pitt-Tech 
College Spoon
429 Craig St., Oakland SC. 9048
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
ness often became excitedness. In 
the beginning of the first act, she 
spoke too rapidly, and epecially in 
her emotional scene in the second 
act she was inferior to Joan Bower. 
The one outstanding improvement 
over the first cast was Lucy Seibert, 
who, in my opinion, gave the best 
performance of her cast. Her Dame 
Placid was mercifully subdued, yet 
brought out fully the humor of that 
character. Edith Loew, as old Dame 
Perpetua, was excellent, and I was 
especially impressed by the death 
scene of the second act. Another 
improvement of the second cast was 
Sally Rosenberg. However, she did 
not manage to impart reality to the 
very badly written part of Helene 
Vauclair. It seems to me impossible 
for even a good actress to bridge the 
lengthy gaps between the crazed 
womans hysterical speeches in the 
first act; and the sudden and rapid 
reconversion of Helene during the 
crowd scene is quite implausible. 
June Shannon at times failed to 
reach the child-like simplicity of 
Sister Therese.
Jack Hochhauser, who overacted 
very much on opening night, toned
SEEMILLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St.
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
You And Your
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
at
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
MAyflower 7700
Fort Pitt Is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
MSI I  $300 PerMonth
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
down enough to give an excellent 
performance of Edmund in the latter half of the run. The other single
cast men, Marquis Patterson as Dr. 
Van der Meersch, and Clark Marlor as LAbbe Bounet, also improved 
as the play progressed, although I 
was very disappointed at. the latters 
poor acting during the crowd scene. 
Although both actors portraying the 
German Soldier were very good, 
Dan Franks of the second cast was 
superior to Casey in the maturity 
of his acting.
The crowd scene, I am sorry to 
say, was done even more badly the 
second time I saw the play than the 
first. It is hard to say whether this 
was due to Mother Prioress lack of 
vitality and dynamic in this scene, 
to the rather senseless behavoir of 
the Abbe, or to the general inexperi
ence of the Freshmen, but it was 
grotesque to see the crowd gesticu
lating and shouting wildly at one 
instant, and then freezing into ut
ter immobility the moment Kay 
Cook began to speak.
Continued on page 4
Cwens PJan Tag Day
To Aid Endowment Fund
The first Cwen program will -be 
a Tag Day held on Tuesday, No
vember 28. The Cwens will give all 
those who contribute to this fund a 
red and grey ribbon pin. The Cwens 
are only organizing the tag day/tfie 
student body will.make it a success. 
Be in style on November 28 and 
wear the red and grey ribbon.
Father Kraus Speaks
At All-Catholic Chapel
Next Tuesday, November 28, 
there will be an all-Catholic Chapel. 
Father Leo Kraus, chaplain for 
Catholic students at St. Pauls Ca
thedral, will speak on the subject, 
A Personal Providence. The Chapel 
Choir will sing Panis Angelicus by 
Cesar Franck with the choral re
sponses commonly used in the Ro
man Catholic Church. The service 
is sponsored by the Freshman Cab
inet of the C. W. C. A.
What they did in 69
helps you every day
/tsha Grrt^*as M. Barto*
When Professor Elisha Gray and young Enos M. 
Barton, not long out of college, organized in 1869 
the partnership later to become Western Electric, 
they paved the way for many developments which 
have enriched your life.
For many years, the Company has been manu
facturer, purchasing agent, and distributor for the 
Bell Telephone System, whose service you have 
known all your life. :
r Through telephone work, college trained men 
and women at Western Electric helped find other 
ways to make your life fuller and safer. For exam
ple, radio broadcastingtalking picturesmarine, 
aviation and police radiotrain dispatching equip
mentall were pioneered by Western Electric.
Today, Western Electric is doing its greatest 
jobturning out huge quantities of electronic tnd 
communications equipment to help our fighting 
men and to speed the day of Victory.
When that day comes, Western Electric will re
sume its 75-year-old job of making communica
tions equipment to further enrich your life.
Buy all the War Bonds you canand keep them I
18691944Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM 
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.

---------------------------------------------------

1
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1944The Plaid
Evening Student Councils 
Thanksgiving Dance Nov. 25
In Exhibition Room 
Featuring Phil Eskin 
And His Rhythm Kings
Th'e first major dance on the so
cial calendar of the Evening Stu
dent Council is to be held Satur
day evening, November 25. This is 
the traditional Thanksgiving Holi
day dance when the students are af
forded the opportunity of spending 
an enjoyable evening.
Mitzie Kitchen, Social Chairman, 
has been hard at work making plans 
for the affair. Exhibition Hall in the 
Fine Arts building on the campus 
has been secured as the setting for 
the frolic, and Phil Eskin and his 
Rythm Kings have been engaged to 
furnish the music for the occasion.
Dancing will commence at nine 
oclock and continue until midnight.
Admission is fifty cents per per
sons, and tickets can be obtained 
from the social committee or mem
bers of the Evening Student Coun
cil. They are also available in Mr.
McKelways office, 255-C Industries 
Hall. Servicemen are welcome and 
will be admitted free as guests of 
the Councilso any man in the 
service is extended a cordial invita
tion to attend.
Attention Workers
Wanted! Electricians, decorators, 
designers, and anyone who is will
ing to lend a helping hand in the 
dressing-up of Exhibition Hall for 
the Thanksgiving Dance on Novem
ber 25. If you are interested in help
ing with this work, please report for 
duty at 2:00 p. m. at the Hall on 
Saturday afternoon.
Student Poll To Be Held
During the last week of Novem
ber, a survey will be conducted tb 
determine the amount of money 
each student spends a semester on 
clothing, entertainment and mis
cellaneous items. The evening school 
students are asked to work in col
laboration with the day school stu
dents in making this survey a suc
cess; so we are asking you to co
operate by completing the questionaire that will be handed you 
when you enter the Industries and 
Fine Arts from November 27 
through December 1.
The figures do not have to be 
exact but should be as accurate as 
possible. Observe your spendings 
for the next few weeks and you will 
get an average of your out-go for 
the. sixteen weeks constituting a se
mester.
The Plaid
1 Editor
Joseph M. Rymar
New* Kilter 
i Mary de MariaAiMtiit* EditorRuth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
rage e4IU4 kjr Evening School StaicnU ef Car* 
BOfU Iniiltite ef Teekaalegy. All rltwi > epiaioaa eiyriwtl la o4ltori*l colama are aetttn-----r eadone4 ky the Editorial Boar# ef
tho Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner 
Florence Cfeorba Virginia Ehnl Thelma Kitchen 
Irene Koemer 
S. W, MarclnlxynFred Vichtcb
Elaine Martin 
Frank Mlhelich Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan Dorothy Shield Lota Schulte
Look out! The eight-ball is roll
ing your way; and if you dont step 
lively, youll find yourself right be
hind it . . . Just why is it that Irene 
Meuter insists upon being the lit
tle girl who wasnt there at even
ing school dances? Last year Irenes 
favorite saying was, Ill see you at 
the dance. Came the dance  no 
Irene! Cmon, Irene, join the fun 
. . . Can it be that it was our dis
tinguished President of Council who 
whistled as one of the girls in his 
Psychology Class walked to the 
front of the room to assist the in
structor in illustrating a diagram. 
We thought Ches was allergic to 
blondes .. .It looks as though 
Cupid has again scored another tri
umph. Stu Ringler and Audrey Mc
Cullough are saying those ever-sofamiliar words, I do, tonight . . . 
Ruthie McGraw has turned deserter 
to the Plaid Staff this eve. It seems 
she prefers dancing at the Vogue 
Terrace to workingimagine! . . . 
John Vranichs latest hobby is 
canning prunes. No, John has not 
become a patriotic food conserver. 
He has been working on some met
allurgical research experiments in 
canning for the past several weeks; 
and incidentally, hes marked 
prunes at the top of the list of 
foods he considers most disasteful 
. . . Last week your eight-ball re
porter announced that Cpl. Bob 
Bassett was visiting sunny France 
with the 33rd Special Service Com
pany. But alas! Our armies over
seas are now moving too fast for a 
poor reporter to follow. Word has 
since been received that Bob is now 
in Belgium.
Any student wishing to earn an 
award may secure credit points to
ward that end by passing out the 
questionaires in these two buildings 
on the evenings of the survey. Just 
get in touch with the Plaid Editor, 
Joe Rymar.
That means a holiday for all of us. 
This year, for a change, one date has 
been definitely setThursday, No
vember 23. Therefore there will be 
no classes November 23, 24 and 25.
Thanksgiving should mean a lit
tle more to all of us this year than 
just a feast of turkey and the trimmins and a holiday. We should all 
pause and give thought to the many 
lives that are being sacrificed at this 
time. We should be thankful that 
we are here in America and hope 
that next year will mean turkey 
and pumpkin pie at home for the 
many boys serving our country here 
and overseas.
Blood Drive .. .
Continued from page 1
schools and classes, the results are
as follows:
Margaret Morrison
Freshmen ........................... 11%
Sophomores ....................... 20%
Juniors ............................... 25%
Seniors ............................... 45%
Fine Arts
Architecture ..................... 13%
Drama ................................. 30%
Music ................................... 6%
P. & D.................................... 20%
Sculpture ........................... 86%
Engineering
Chemical Engineers ........ 6%
Civil Engineers................. 15%
Electrical Engineers ........25%
Mechanical Engineers___20%
Chemistry .......................... 35%
Physics ............................... 15%
Printing .......................... 14%
Metallurgy ......................... 10%
In addition to the blood given by 
the students, other groups also gave 
to the Red Cross drive. Fifteen 
members of the faculty, four office 
workers, two alumni, and seventyLittle Theatre . . .
Continued from page 3
The play itself, from the audi
ences point of view, is altogether 
too tedious and pointless. The plot 
is negligible, and the moral or mes
sage missing, and although both are 
not necessary, the presence of either 
would add tremendously to the 
play. Only the over-all excellence of 
both casts made it possible for me 
to enjoy seeing the show more than 
once, and for this my sincere re
spects are due not only to the play
ers, but above all to Mary Morris, 
whose direction was responsible for 
one of the best-acted plays in recent 
years.
one men from the Navy contributed.
The Red Cross especially wishes 
to thank those who kept their ap
pointments and to urge the eighty 
per cent who did not give this time 
to give in the next drive in March.
NEEDED
Transportation to and from C. I. T. and Morewood Avenue near Bayard Street. This is necessary for health reasons. Office employee, hours from 8:30 A. M. to 5:00 P. M. Rider can provide gas if necessary and will pay for transportation.
Please communicate with Mrs. LittleI. H. 255-A.
AIKEN-FORBES 
TAILORING CO.
CLEANING and PRESSING 
ALTERING and REPAIRING
We Call and Deliver 
5817 Forbes street HAzel 3601
WOODLAWN
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
INFORMAL
DANCING
. Every 
Saturday Night
Joey Sims 
Orchestra
85c per person
plus tax
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
WRAP SECURELY
SEND BEFORESEND BFOR
You remember the law of physics that two objects cannot 
occupy the same space at the same time. Just so with war 
materials urgently needed at the fronts and personal pack
ages. For that reason our Government has requested that 
all civilian Christmas packages be sent before Dec. 1st.
So we of Railway Express ask you to help us (and
yourselves too) by doing these three simple things, ia 
addition to shopping early:
1. Send your gifts before Dec. 1st. Laundry can 
keep to its regular schedule. When packages are 
ready to go, phone the Railway Express agent.
2. Wrap your packages carefully and securely.
3. Address them clearly, with your own and their
recipients name, street number, city and state.
NARIONOWISE RAILOAIR FERVINE
