CARNEGIE DAY 
MUSIC HALL 
FRIDAY-NOV. 24
! BAND IN KILTS FOR 
NOTRE DAME 
HAVE YOU HELPED?
VOL. XVII. NO. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1922
PROGRAM NOW 
OUTLINED FOR 
CARNEGIE DAY
Sir Robert A. Faulkner, Presi
dent of UniversityofToronto. Will Give Principal Ad
dress at Commemoration
KILTIES TO PARADE
Sir Robert Faulkner, president of 
Toronto University, will give the prin
cipal address at the Carnegie Day ex
ercises on November 24th, when the 
Institute of Technology commemo
rates the birthday of its founder. Each 
year the day is set aside at Carnegie 
Tech for the opportunity of the stu
dents to pay tribute, and it lias be
come on4 of the most significant days 
on the school calendar.
The celebration this year promises 
to surpass that of each preceding year 
because of the unusually attractive 
program of exercises outlined. In 
President Falconer, Dr. T. S. Baker 
lias secured one of Canadas most 
prominent citizens, and one of the 
most widely known authorities on 
education in this hemisphere.
Sir Robert is a Canadian, born and 
bred. He was born in Charlottetown, 
Prince Edward Island, on February 
10/ 1867, and with the exception of 
several years of study abroad, lias 
been identified with Canadian educa
tional interests throughout his life. 
His higher education was obtained in 
Queens Royal College, Trinidad, as 
West Indian Gilchrist Scholar, London 
University, and Edinburgh University. 
He was awarded his B. A. degree at 
London University in 18SS, and later 
received M. A., B. D. and D. Litt. de
grees from Edinburgh. Pie also stud
ied at Leipsig, Berlin, and Narburg.
Honorary degrees have been con
ferred upon him by seven colleges and 
universities. Degree of LL.D. has been 
conferred by University of New Bruns
wick, University of St. Francis Xavier, 
Toronto. McMaster, Dalhousie, and 
Namlaba. Knox College conferred de
gree of D.D.
Before accepting the presidency of 
Toronto University in 1907, Sir Rob
ert was principal for threikyears, of 
Presbyterian College in Halifax, 
where he had previously served as 
lecturer and professor. He has con
tributed articles to various Canadian 
and American magazines, and is the 
author of Truth of the Apostolic Gos
pel.
Dr. Baker met with the Student 
Council last Friday to arrange details 
for the customary march to the Music 
Hall. Classes are to be dismissed at 
10:20 a. m., and will resume at 1:30. 
The parade will be led by the band 
in kilts, and will be followed in or
der by members of the administration 
(Continued on Page' Four.)
Delta Upsilon Wins 
Scholarship Trophy
Nineteen Fraternities Take 
Part in Competition
At the General Assembly November 
8th, Dean Tarbell presented the Inter
fraternity Scholarship trophy to the 
Delta Upsilon fraternity as the winner 
for 1921-22. This cup is a gift from 
the Faculty Club, and is. competed for 
annually by the fraternities. Nineteen 
fraternities were in the competition 
last year with a total of four hundred 
and eighty-six members.
The method of award consists iu 
adding the points of quality secured 
by the members of a fraternity during 
the year in question, subtracting the 
deficiency points, and their dividing 
by the number of members in the fra
ternity. Only initial grades, not those 
secured by re-examinations, are con
sidered. The scholastic standing of 
the nineteen fraternities of the Inter
fraternity Council for 1921-22, follows:
1. Delta Upsilon................... 155.38
2. Phi Epsilon .................... 153.72
3. Beta Sigma Rho ............. 129.61
4. Iota Sigma Delta........ 117,.37
5. "Woodlawn Club ............. 108.69
6. Beta Theta Pi ................. 101.18
7. Sigma Epsilon Phi......... 94.95
8. Tau Gamma Phi.............. 93
9. Theta Xi .......................... 92.40
10. Delta Epsilon Omega ... S5.S9
11. Sigma Alpha Epsilon .... S3.48
12. Sigma Nu ........................ 83,46
13. Delta Phi Delta................ 82.1
14. Kappa Sigma.................. 77.26
15. Xi Sigma Upsilon ........ 76.91
16. Pi Kappa Alpha ............. 72.06
17. Delta Mu.......................... 66.62
18. Square and Compass---- 65.63
19. Kappa Sigma Rho ......... 9.14
CARNEGIE TARTAN STAFF 
WILL MEET FRIDAY AT
4:30 IN TARTAN OFFICERobertson Circling Right End For Twenty-Five Yards
The editorial and business staff of 
the Carnegie Tartan will hold a meet
ing at 4:30 Friday, November 17, 
the Tartan office, 5A Industries This 
is to be an important meeting and all 
men are urged to be present.
COMMITTEE ASKS FOR
IMMEDIATE REPORTS BY 
MANAGERS OF ACTIVITIES
During the past week the commit
tee has been busy putting the final 
touches on the Point System so that 
it -may become effective before the 
end of the semester. The commit
tee reports that everything will be 
in readiness as soon as the individ
ual reports from the various activi
ties are sent in and the summary 
can be made up.
It is hoped that this week may 
see all the reports in and the com
mittee asks the co-operation of all 
the officials and managers so that 
this hope may be realized.
MR. DAVIS EXPANDS 
WORK OF Y. M. C. A.
Membership Drive Enrolls 
Fifty Per Cent of Men
The membership drive of the Y. M. 
C. A. which ended Friday, October 
27, was quite successful, largely due 
to the efforts of Jack Franklin and 
his assistants. Secretary Davis esti
mates that six hundred and seventylive new members were signed up 
and that of the three thousand dol
lar quota over twenty-six hundred 
were raised. Although this did not 
meet with the hopes of some, yet it 
is a very good result and will make 
the Y. M. IC. A. a real power on the 
campus.
Secretary Davis has already ar
ranged many such regular features 
about the school as Chapel Service, 
Senior Counsellor, Plebe Banquets 
and Swims in Schenley High School. 
Chapel is now held Thursdays at 
12:50 to 1:20, to accommodate stu
dents of the Arts and Margaret 
Morrison College who have classes 
at the time Chapel was formerly 
held. Secretary Davis has secured 
Father Coakley of St. Patricks 
Church to speak at the Chapel serv
ices tomorrow.
The swims at Schenley High 
School which are given every Thurs
day, are under the supervision of a 
very competent instructor. Students 
who do not know how to swim 
should find this a very good oppor
tunity to learn, white those who are 
more experienced may be interested 
in the instruction of diving and res
cuing, or indulge in water polo.
Secretary Davis is contemplating 
more work for the future arid de
sires the Y. M. C. A. to be a real 
benefit to Carnegie Tech. With 
about fifty per cent of the students 
enrolled, he expects to accomplish 
even more than last year, the first 
year that the Y was on the 
campus.
SHORT COURSE MEN
WILL HOLD SMOKER
Chapel Tomorrow at 12:50
The weekly Chapel services will be 
held tomorrow from 12:50 to 
1:30 in the . Little Theater. 
The Rev. Father Coakley will 
address the students on "Belief 
and Brains. Father Coakley has 
picked a subject that deals with things 
we all desire and some of us acquire, 
so it should be of interest to all of us.
Last Thursdays service was well 
attended and Dr. Robertsons talk was 
very good. But lets have even a 
larger crowd out tomorrow at the 
Little Theater at 12:50.
A meeting of the directors of tne 
Short Course Asociation was called 
last Wednesday by President Strizzi 
in order that a definite plan might 
be laid out for the activities of the 
association during tlie coming year.
The date of December 8 was set 
for the smoker which will be held in 
the Science Building. The smoker 
tags will be on sale as soon as they 
can be printed and the tax will be 
fifty cents for the second year men 
and all first year men can get com
plimentary tickets which will admit 
them free to the smoker with the op
portunity of seeing just what the 
Short Course Asociation means to 
the two year men. The features of 
the smoker will be the S. C. M. A. 
Orchestra together with a few short 
talks by prominent men concerning 
the problems which confront the stu
dent today. Also there will be vau
deville stunts, boxing, wrestling, 
smokes, and many other little sur
prises which help' to make an even
ing enjoyable
Plans were made to elect officers 
(Continued on Page Four.)
RADIO SETS INSTALLED
FOR MEN IN TWO HOSPITALS
Radio sets were installed at the 
bedsides ol two Carnegie Tech stu
dents. who are confined in local hos
pitals. At Presbyterian Hospital, a 
set was rigged up lor Harold C(Red) Godden, wiio broke his leg 
in the game last Saturday with Alle
gheny College. The other set was 
installed at St. Francis Hospital for 
Martin C. MoCarney, a Senior In tli 
College of Industries, wljo is a vic
tim of appendicitis.
The Carnegie Branch, of the Y. 
M. C. A., under the direction of Sec
retary R. CAv Davis, is responsible 
for this solicitation toward the com
forts of the patientB, and Mr. Davis 
supervised the installation of the in
struments. Returns from the TechPenn State football game came over 
the wires to the students, special ar
rangements having been made to 
make this posible.
HARD-FOUGHT GAME GOES TO 
NITTANY WARRIORS BY SCORE 
OF 10-0 IN ANNUAL STRUGGLE
VARSITY CLAN 
WILL BANQUET 
SQUAD NOV. 25
All Carnegie Tech Students 
and Alumni Invited to the 
Banquet at the Schenley 
After Notre Dame Game
TICKETS ON SALE NOW
Plans for Carnegie Tech's best foot
ball banquet are progressing rapidly. 
Tickets have been printed and distrib
uted among the members of the com
mittee and at the alumni office at 
school. Tickets will also be on sale 
and at the football games.
Arrangements have been made with 
the Hotel Schenley to plan for a party 
of five hundred at the banquet. The 
entertainment committee plans sev
eral departures from the general rule 
of banquets, and the reception com
mittee has already received accept
ances from several prominent men. 
From the time that the banquet starts 
at seven oclock with the consomme, 
there will not be a moment of inac
tion until the last rousing song echoes 
throughout the hall.
The publicity committee has made 
the preliminary announcements, and 
is now planning an extensive cam
paign for the week preceding the 
Notre Dame game, so that all alumni 
and students will have the oppor
tunity to attend the banquet. The 
few speeches on the program will be 
short, concerning things which are of 
interest to us, and by people in whom 
we are interested. You, Tech Alum(Continued on Page Three.)
M. M. C. C. JUNIORS TO HOLD
THANKSGIVING CARD PARTY
A Thanksgiving cardjparty will be 
given Wednesday afternoon, Novem
ber 22, 1922, in the Recreation Hall 
of Margaret Morrison by the Junior 
class. A committee of Virginia  Sei
bert, Margaret Coombs and Faye 
Glass has been placed in charge of 
this party. Both live hundred and 
bridge will be played, >'0 there is no 
excuse for not being there.
Playing will start at 3:30 for those 
who have no classes then, but only 
from 4:30 on will the scores be count
ed for the prizes. There will also be 
music, refreshments and a good time 
for everyone. Let every girl from 
Arts and Margaret Morrison, includ
ing the faculty, be there with her 
usual Carnegie spirit. Tickets will 
be sold on the campus for fifty cents 
by any member of the committee.
PENN STATE SPECIAL 
AWAKENS COUNTRY
Double-Header Needed to 
Bring Enthusiastic Crowd 
to Lair of Lion
Students to Speak Friday 
At Physics Colloquium
The meeting of the Physics Collo
quium on Friday afternoon, Novem
ber 10th, was devoted to the question 
of the artificial disintegration of the 
atomic nucleus. ProfessorH. L. 
Moore was the leader of the discus
sion. Ever since the time of the al
chemists the artificial disintegration 
of the elements has been the dream 
of enthusiastic scientists. For nearly 
twenty years it has been known that 
disintegration of the radioactive ele
ments goes on ceaselessly and that 
the very costly radium changes into a 
form  of lead that lias a different 
atomic weight from that of lead de
rived from thorium minerals, the dif
ference amounting to between one and 
two units of atomic weight. The na
tural disintegration of the atomic nu
cleus differs from the artificial disin
tegration that has been apparently 
brought about by Rutherford in the 
case of aluminum and some other 
lighter elements. Rutherford obtained 
his results by bombardment of these 
lighter elements with alpha particles 
from Radium C.
On Friday, November 17th, Mr. 
Ralph Humbert and Mr. E. R. Owen 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Two steaming locomotives, draw
ing twelve loadod coaches of Carne
gie Tech rooters, 'puffed and snorted 
their way through the mountains and 
valleys of Central Pennsylvania. It 
was in unusually long train, and the 
crowd of elghi. hu*. Ir*;d or more 
Plaid followers that made up Penn 
State Special, was probably the 
largest, ever transported over the 
branch line to Lament in many 
moons.
Cui'lous country folk looked from 
I their stoops, passersby stopped along 
the roads, and women and children 
hurried to the small stations between 
Tyrone and Lomont just to see the 
Tech Special on Us way to the little 
college town high up on Mt Nlttany.
Faculty and students, strangers, 
and rrlonds of the school made up 
the party on the special. Very little 
singing or cheering was done on the 
way down. Every one soemod to be 
waiting to give their all when they 
reached the gridiron at the new 
Beaver Field, and all yelling and 
cheering was saved ft r the actual 
clash of the Tartans and Lions.
Practically everyono enjoyed the 
trip, and perhaps even those who 
(Continued on Page Four.)
SALE OF NOTRE 
DAME TICKETS 
SATISFACTORY
Many Requests for Tickets 
for Final Game Pouring in 
From Alumni and Outsiders, 
Indicates Record Crowd
KILTIE BAND AT GAME
As the time for the long looked for 
game with Notre Dame draws close, 
wo find that the tickets are selling 
fast. At the presont rate, it Is 
thought that the athletic office will 
ho sold out of tickets long before the 
day of the game. So If you doslre to 
get any, you should get them at once. 
The general admission tickets are 
$1.50; reservod soats $2.00 and box 
seats $2.50.
As this Is the last game of Car
negies football season, tliore will bo 
held the usual athletic dinner In the 
ovenlng to which the alumni are In
vited. This years banquet will bo 
hold at the Hotel Schenley.
This day Is *Uso to be known as 
Big Alumni Homecoming Day. Al
ready soveral of the clans have rpnuestod reservations and more are oxpectod.
An unusual Interest is being shown 
by outsiders Many roquesls have 
boon rocoivod for tlckots from friends 
of Carnegie. The K. of C. from many 
of the surrounding towns have bought 
tlckots and expect to sharo our colo* 
b ration.
No exact Information has boon re(Continued on Page Two.)
Architectural Student
Receives Highest Award
DR. BAKER PRESENT AT
MUSICAL CLUB REHEARSAL
The musical clubs wore favored by 
a visit from Doctor Baker last week. 
The Glee Club under the direction of 
Mr. Riehl, sang two selections for Dr. 
Baker. Dr. Baker said that he was 
very favorably impressed with the 
large number of men and the splendid 
work of the club. He voiced enthus
iasm over the manner in which the 
club is favorably advertising Carnegie 
Tech and said that the club this year 
promises to be the best one Carnegie 
i has ever produced.
It was Indeod a great nay for the 
Department of Architecture when 
word came from Now York that Otto 
M. Olson of Carnegie Tech was award
ed the.Stewardson prize.
The competition consisted of the 
design for "An International Tennis 
Club, in which only seven men, 
chosen by provlous competition for 
morltorlous work, woro pormlttod to 
submit designs. Of theso sovon men, 
Otto M. Olson, Goorgo N. Pauly and 
C. W. Hunt woro from Carnegie Tech.
Mention must be made of the fact 
that all men entored woro capable 
and experienced, and it was no easy 
task for the jury to decide on the 
winner. The designs were all very 
wellpresented, but from the results, 
Olsen's solution was the best.
Mr. G. N. Pauly placed, and .C. W. 
Hunt acting as one of the alternates, 
was chosen first alternate.
It is gratifying to note that a Car
negie Tech student was awarded the 
Stewardson prize last year, giving it 
twice in succession to Carnegie Tech 
and three times in the history of the 
department.
The Department of Architecture 
wishes to congratulate Mr. Olsen and 
the others for their remarkable work.
Crippled Skibo Machine Defeated By 
Heavy Attack of Penn State Lion 
Carnegie Players Twice Ad
vance to Ten-Yard Line
THE SPECIAL AND PENN STATE
U
r'KUJNTAIM
CLIMBING
SCEMe IN 
CO^CH CM -THE RSTUR.W trip
f^ot To SW6 
GATS For<
RNEGIDY MUSH YLCD
To >IT ON THE 
ROU ND  LOCK V THF V ^RN'T i M KLCTS, '
TCM STUDNTE FRAfTO^-ALt-Y HUNTING TYieiR CATS - ho&oo^ 
beeneo De ltea 
TtiEV VER.E, ____ -r\j
corte RIGAVI IH AKO r'NA.Kli ^oOf^seLv/es */Vf rtOMt
17,000 WITNESS GAME AT STATE
By H. H. WILSON
Somewhere in the wilds of Center county the Nittanv Lion, although 
worn and tired, is resting peacefully in his lair after his hard-earned victory 
over the Tartan hosts. For the story is that Penn State defeated Carnegie 
Tech at Beaver Field last Saturday by the small margin of a touchdown and 
a field goal, or in other words, 10-0. But that does not give much intimation 
of how closely fought the game was. for twice the Skibos advanced the ball 
to the Blue and White ten-yard line.' However, it seemed they lacked the 
necessary punch at such critical points and fulled to carry the 'hall Forward 
gul11 line' Porlml>8 11 'v>13 Pr judgment or It may have lieen the stiffening of the Penn State line that kept the red clad men from going further into the shadow of the enemy goal posts.
other hand, the PennENTHUSIASM RUNS stnlL' uttack was sto,,,|j' ami1^1 iiiuoinoHi uunj wlth tlmt ac0 oC iiccs HiiiTjr wllson
H1CH AT A QQI" Art RI Y carrying the ball through the criplUvJll n 1 ZvlJvJL/I I VIjL/1 pled Tartan line for great gains. In
fact ho was a whole team In himself 
making a large percentage of the 
gains, breaking up many or the 
PlaUl forward passes and receiving 
a number for his own team from the 
hand of Mllce Palm.
The day was a gala day for State 
being both Ponnsylvnnla Day and 
Armistice Day. The old grads were 
back and with the Tartan rootors 
amounting to more than a thousand 
they filled the field to overilowing 
17,000 bo lug the estimated attenda nee.
Getting back to the gamo, we find 
Carnegie Tech opening up with a 
strong offensive In the first, quarter 
when they advanced tho ball to tho 
10-yard lino by a sorlos of end runs 
and lino 'bucks only to lose It on 
downs. Then it was State's turn 
and at tho beginning of tho second 
quarter by a concerted1 attack tho 
ball was slowly advanced to tho 
Plaid onoyard lino where NVilsou 
took It over. Mike Palm annexod 
tho extra point, by a drop kick. A 
llttio later iu tho same qua 
Lamb startled tho crowd by hen IMOI<. or 
a. long pass of -10 yards, Jimmie (M. f,.tlnu 
vantage.
Fraternity Scholarship Cup 
Given to Delta Upsilon 
Fraternity
In what was probably tho best Gonoral Assembly of tho yonr, hold In tho 
Carnoglo Music Hall on tho morning 
of November 8. Head Coach Wally 
Steffen and Assistant Coach Bob Waddell talked concerning tho prospocts 
for tho coining gamo with Penn State 
Collogo, to bo pi ay od at Stato Collogo on Saturday, November 11 til.
Both Stoffon and Waddoll woro 
somowhat posslmlstlo In tholr com
munication to the student body, al
though tlu' tonor of tholr talks was 
slightly different. Tho former sound
ed a personal note when ho statod 
that Hugo Bezdok, Penn States men
tor, would rather lose the Penn and 
Pitt games than lose tho gamo next 
Saturday to Wally (Stoffon. Wally and 
Bezdolc played on the same football 
tonni, and it good natured rivalry has 
grown up botween them. Ponn State, 
thoroloro, would bo primed for a su
premo effort, and would put every
thing In the balance for a victory.
Coach Waddell, who has soon tho 
Nlttany Lion perform on two different 
occasions this season, brought back 
the report that tho team that lost to
orison receiving it and almost 
ting awy for a touchdown..cl VI!
..........wi
th ball reachod (ho 10-yardv li.\N f<w 
whoro It was ugaln loiit on UOWi brofc 
Tho Nlttany lads now launchod a in ho 
th Navy by a M-0 scoro was one otlior attaek In whleh Wilson mad'ihirdl 
hundred por cent bettor than tho tonni  a protty run of HO yard bolng finalthw 
whleh played to a acoroloas Ilo wlth (Contlnued on Page Throo.) 
Syracuse tho woolt boforo. NF a roault 
qf thoso two gamos, tho feollng at 
Stato College -F runnlng lilgli, and tho 
studont body, unaecustomd to th 
sigili of a loslng tonni, -F urglng on 
tho football moti to do tholr utmost to 
proyent a ropotltlon of laHt wooks 
score.
All of thls, as bolli imm brought out, 
ls not to th benefit, of tho chaucos 
(Contlnued on Pago Four.)
DR. BAKER PRESENT
AT STUDENT COUNCIL
Tho Studont Council hold a short 
mooting last Thursday night. Somo 
suggestions wero made for cheering 
which will be taken up with head 
Cheerleador Hertz.
The Point Committee made a roport In which some changes were rec
ommended. Tho secretaries and treas
urers of departmental organizations 
wore granted an additional point. 
Also the second vice president of 
Arts College was granted an addition
al point above that given the vice 
president. This was done because the 
second vice president Is a girl who 
has charge of all girls meetings.
Dr. Baker was present and outlined 
the program for Carnegie Day. It is 
to open with a parade to Music Hall, 
consisting of faculty, the band, the R. 
O. T. C. in uniform and the general 
student body. Sir Robert Faulkner, 
'Continued on Page Two.)
Carnegie Kiltie Band 
Will Appear in Movies
Complete Returns of Kilts 
Drive Not in
Tho comploto returns from tho 
Itllt Drlvo in tho four schools have 
not been rocoivod at tho tlmo tho 
paper went to tho printers. In In
dustries and in Aits, tho latest re
turns hIiow about sovonty-Ilvo per cont 
of tho quota sot while on Setlonco 
School and Margaret. Morrison tho 
returns are sadly behind1, it would 
soem that the Science men and tho 
Margaret Morrison women do not. 
appreciate tho value that a lvlltloBand will bo to our college or else 
they are in a bad shape financially. 
Science school usually leads In all 
drives which are put across for fi
nancial assistance to some project 
for the good of Carnegie Tech, but 
In this one they have not come up 
to their old standard.
The band in kilts will appear for 
the first time at the Carnegie Day 
exercises on November . The kilts 
are being manufactured and will be 
completed by that time.
At the Notre Dame game where 
the kilts will first appoar before the 
(Continued on Page Three)
Torrent of Oratory Pours Forth
As Seniors Undergo Grilling Test
By T. S. Reppller.
(By Courier from Sing Sing)
The past week the Son lor class at 
Carnegie Tech has undergone a se
vere ordeal formerly ranked on an 
equal status with the Turkish mass
acres and the Tortures of Volstead. 
The English department, knowing full 
well that tho culprits were all un
suspecting of tholr fate, launchod 
forth a demand for an artlclo of count
less words on "Why She Loft Homo," 
to be written In tho best style of Wil
liam J. Bryan and Benjamin Frank
lin. For untold hours tho Sonlor class 
both sweated and swore, and at the 
end of that tlmo, the accumulated 
articles woro truly remarkable. Wo 
have Prof. Kirkpatrick for the auth
ority that such masterful Junk has not 
boon turned out since Moses first an
nounced his discovery of the bul
rushes. The English language Is now 
richer by some five hundred now 
words than It was before the torrent 
Df aeniorial oratory.
Blocks for Lil Willie.
However, this inquisition Is merely 
a prelude for that which is to follow. 
It ls now rumored that ore many 
moons have circulated, the studont 
body will bo assembled In groups ol! 
forty-sovon each, and commanded to 
pick out the little blocks of one color 
and make an alphabet for one and all 
to marvel at. iBets of ICIovor ICutouts 
for Kuto Kiddles will also bo supplied 
by Mr, Orbln, aftor much persuasion, 
and tho uppor-daHsmon will be given 
ail opportunity to construct tho House 
That Jack Built, and tho don of Willy 
Woof, tho Wily Wolf. If tho studont 
body Htlll demonstrate tholr Ignorance 
by these mammoth tenth, tho depart
ment may sorlously consider calling 
for an Inspection trip to tho United 
Klndorgarten Societies.
Aunt Dcc and Uncic Tom.
Another test which ls at present un
der consideration, is one designed to 
accurately test the memory of all. A 
(Continued on Page Four.)
J

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1922
CarnEgislflMti
Published every week by undergrad mi ten of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of the Htudent Activities Board.___________
Entered In the Postofilce of Pittsburgh as second-clas matter. _______
C-OVL. --H 24SM!BiJA24 ............................................................. Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHi land 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.................................................................... Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND ............................................................................ Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD.................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON.............................................................................. Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
IIORTENSE PURDY...................................................................... Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9079
H. F. DIETER ......................................................................................... News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
E. J. MAU8T ..............1.......................................................................... News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9432
H. H. "WILSON....................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 9350
R. P. HAY .............................................................................................. Photographer
R. B. KELLER ................................................................................ Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR..............................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER ................................................................................ Special Writer
J, K. MATTER.................................................................................... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER........................................................................ Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 8211
J. C. MAJOR ............................................................................ Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Ilertzman, M. S. Downes, If. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencor, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRII3UTORS 
H. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, E. C. Frazier, J. II. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schucker, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Laudig, D. Moskovitz, .1. W. Metro P. W. Reilly, R. It. Young and H. 
Gibson. ___________________________________________
The EdItor-ln-Chiof ls responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes ali communications of Htudent interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All news items must bo in tho student
postoilice before 4:30 Friday.__________________________________________________L__
Tartan OillceRoom 5-A, Iiidustrloa Building. OfUce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
STUDY TO LEARN
ARTS THEATER
MATINEE PERFORMANCE OF
"PAOLO AND FRANCESCA"
The Drama Department of the Col
lege of Fine Arts will give a special 
matinee performance of the play, 
"Paolo and Francesca," at 4:00 p. m., 
1 Friday, November 17, In the Little 
Theater.  No tickets will be required 
for admission.
Ptolemy, ah Egyptian ruler, had engaged Euclid to teach him 
geometry, but his royal pupil did not enjoy memorizing theorems; 
he therefore went to his teacher and inquired il: tjierc was no easier 
way to loam the propositions; to this, tho geometrician answered: 
There is no royal road to geometry.n
Today we find thousands oi! students in col leges seeking the. royal 
road to learning, hut there is no such thoroughJiare, there is no suguycoated pill ol! knowledge, there is only one way lo learn and that is 
by study. Only by concentration and application can the problem 
be solved. Wo so oJitou hoar it remarked, that most students do not 
know how to study, and it may be true that the average person 
lacks the will power necessary to make him a student. Determina
tion is what wins scholarships, procrastination brings flunks, to put 
ofl! a lesson means that it will not be done, because the program 
is full; the daily assignments keep piling up, so as to make it impos
sible for an average individual to catch up. Do it today, tomorrow 
may bo too late, and remember that the lesson unstudied is a dis
tinct Joss, for only by study do we loom.
ALUMNI WANT KILTS
The students have Subscribed over hall! of the money needed for' 
kilts for the band, and the order has been placed for delivery before 
tho Notre Dame gamo. Tho final payment will soon be duo and must 
be paid. Tho alumni lmvo not yet done much on this drive; but it 
naturally takes longer to get going on account of tho large territory 
that must bo covered to get in touch with the old grads; however, 
ArCci.Cl(^on tho final count; is made we believe the alumni will go over their 
lie Smiota, because every graduate and former studont is interested in 
band.
ita
LIMITING ACTIVITIES
The Point System is to bo instali od this semester, this installation 
3 rmis a big job ; securing and filing thoHC records moans work for tho 
committee in chargo and they should be given, the support ol! the 
* Htudent body il! this system is to become efl'oetivo. Some method ol! 
limiting activities is needed, because there aro students doing more 
than they can handle, thoso persons get more jobs handed to them 
perhaps because they get the work done; but il' they had some good 
reason to turn down tho Ol'I'er ol' added responsibility they would 
not load up too heavily.
II tho new system is enforced rigidly it will tend to make belter 
graduates,
ENCOURAGE THE TEAM
Clive I ho boys on the football team some encouragement by giv
ing them credit for making a, lino showing at State. The natural 
thing to do is to find fault; but our team did the best they could and 
gave all they had, and what more can be expected'/ So lets boost the 
team by giving a, word of praise to each member as we meet them 
on the campus.
Student Calendar
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1C
Chapel.........................................................................................12:50, Arts Theater
Band Practice.......................................................................7 :00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER .17
Tea DanceJunior Industries....................................4:30, Carnegie Union
Paolo and Francesca......................................................4:00, Little Theater
DanceM. M. C. C. Soph-Plebe Dance.................9 :00. Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18 
Cross CountryA. A. U. Allegheny Mountain Association
Championship..................................................................................3:00, Here
DanceAll Freshmen......................................................9 :30, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19
Musical ClubsC-rlee Club...........................................2:30, Exhibition Hall
Mandolin Club..................................2:30, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24
Carnegie Day.
Tea DanceScience Sophs...........................................4:30, Carnegie Union
DanceM. M. A. A..........................................................9 :00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25
Football Notro Dame vs. Carnegie.................................2 $0, Forbes Field
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27
Cross Country......................................................National Intercollegiate Meet
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29
SmokerMusical Clubs..................................................*8 :00, Carnegie Union
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER ;i()
Banquet--Mid-West Association.
Thanksgiving Vacation...............Classes resumed Monday, December -1
SATURDAY, DECEMBER, 9 
Guild Bazaar -M. M. C. C...........................................8:00, Carnegie Union
First Shilling to be 
On Campus Soon
Is Published as Magazine 
For All-Carnegie
We take this opportunity to make 
a few corrections. Last week the 
statement was Issued that tho Shill
ing was a magazino for co-eds. That 
is true, yet tho Shilling is much more 
than that, it Is for all Carnegie; it 
should bo by 11 Carnegie. There are 
representatives of all the schools 
working with tho board. Margaret 
Morrison girls are taking charge of 
the actual work of publication; De
sign School is giving us the best of 
its art, both pictorial and literary; 
Science and Industries are going to 
help in presenting it on the campus. 
There is a way for everyone to take 
part in making Shilling worth while, 
and that Is by contributing anything 
of general Interest, whether a short 
story, a sketeh, a comment on some 
phase of school life, or a good joke.
Shilling Is taking a vacation on 
Thanksgiving Day as every loyal 
Techite should, but will be on the 
campus bright and early Monday 
morning. December 4.
Watch for it!
DR. SCH0EN TO GIVE
LECTURES ON MUSIC
ROAMINS
----------L.
well, did jmii go? If you did, you 
gofeiijjour m<tftey'H worti. Of course 
It would have been better if we had 
won/ but then we cant win 'em all. 
Penn .State la a great school. They 
have everything ideal for a college. 
Their campus is large; their equip
ment is flue, and their location is 
ideal for their type of a school. They 
were good sports, too. Never a mur
mur when their team was penalized, 
and never a cheer when Carnegie 
committed an Indiscretion. Hope we 
go back next year, for It is a pleasure 
to play a team like the Lions.
As to the band, just a word. Their 
worth is not half appreciated. Al
ways on tho spot, sometimes hungry 
and at any rate tired, the band repre
sents Carnegie Tech.
Some unthinking persons remark 
that one needs only to be able to 
play a musical instrument to be in the 
band. The talent is a minor matter 
compared to the faithful work every 
member puts into the band, and 
everyone in Carnegie band deserves 
credit.
We all noticed the hundred-piece 
army band of the Lions. Quite im
pressive. But did you compare the 
volume to that produced by Car
negie's fifty strong?
The volume of the two bands cer
tainly wasn't In direct ratio to the 
number of players in the two groups.
The State ga.me sure wrecked the 
Glee Club. It made bases out of all 
the tenors.
The Pttyicliology of Music is the 
title of a series ol. lectures to be 
given in the Pittsburgh Musical In
stitute beginning November 10, by! 
I)r. Max Schoen, assistant professor' 
in Music Research, at Carnegie Tn-r 
stitute of Technology. The lectures 
will be free.
Topics to be discussed in the ser
ies vof seven loctures are: Introduc
tory: (1) The Psychology of Sound; 
(2) The Psychology of Musical Tal
ent, what it is and what it means; 
(1) The Psychology of Musical 
Talent: An inventory of musical tal
on!; (4) The Psychology of Musical 
Talent: the measurement and eval
uation of musical talent; (5) The 
Psychology of Singing: Physiological 
factors in sinking; (G) Psychology j 
of singing: Psychological factors in 
singing; (7) Tho Psychology of. the 
Musical Response.
'Plie lectures will be illustrated 
with sterloptlcoii slides and unique 
apparatus, Tho first of the series 
is scheduled for 8:HO p. m. next 
Thursday evening.
DR. BAKER PRESENT
AT STUDENT COUNCIL
(Contlnued Proni Page One.) 
tho speaker of tho day, 1s prsident 
<if tho llnlvorslty of Toronto and Is 
consldorod ono of tho best speakers 
lu Canada. Tho program wlll also in
cludo orchestral and Cloo Club numbors.
Aftor tho meeting, Dr. Bakor pionsantly surprisod tho Cornioli wlth a do* 
lightful lunch, whloli certain 1 y was on* 
Joyed by tho niombors,
STUDENTS TO 8PEAK FRIDAY
AT PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
(Contlnuod From Pago One.) 
will bo tho speakers. Mr. Humbert 
wlll describe the work of Ives on tho 
Firefly as an Illuminant. All inter
ested in recent developments of phys
ical science are cordially invited to 
attend the mooting, which will be held 
at 4:510 p. m. in 113 Science.
J. H. THOMPSON SPOKE
AT S. I. E. SMOKER TUESDAY
On Tuesday evening, November 7, 
John II. Thomi^soii, a graduato of 
Washington State University, now 
with the Bureau of Mines, spoke to 
the Carnegie branch of tho Society 
of Industrial Engineers. The theme 
of liis speech was personality and 
success.
Mr. McClelland, Pevsonal Director 
of the Wostingliouse Company, will 
be the speaker at the next meeting 
of tlie society.
\ r.lommitteo on Membership wm 
appointed. Now mon in the Sopho
more, Junior and Senior chusses In 
Machino Production or Commercial 
Engineering may join in tho next 
few days by seeing Herroran, Carew 
or Brown.
First Kindergarten TeacherAnd 
how many children have you?
Second K. TeacherTwenty-nine; 
and how many have you?
First K. TeacherTliirty-six.
Pat, (in seat ahead)Say, what 
part of Ireland do ye come from? 
McGill Daily.
A. I. E. E. MEETING LAST
THURSDAY WELL ATTENDED
Last Thursday evening at S: 00, the 
Carnegie chapter of the A. I. E. E. held 
its regular meeting in Room 11 Ma
chinery Hall. L. O. Grondaiil, head 
of the research department of the 
Union Switch and Signal Company, 
and former associate professor of 
Physics at Carnegie Tech, had been 
secured to speak on Railway Signal
ing Systems, but unfortunately, did 
not appear.
In Mr. Grondalils absence, Profes
sor Donnell gave a humorous sketch 
on rainfall. A Penn State ticket was 
ra filed off and won by Walter Lyman. 
Doughnuts and cider further supplied 
the wants of the sixty odd members 
present.
Dear Roamer:
Have you been down to see Rod 
Godden? You ought to go.
I went into the Presbyterian hos
pital the other day and asked if I 
might see Harold Godden, and before 
I could finish the Harold the 
clerk said 226, second floor. 
Everyone knows "Red down there, 
for he Is a regular fellow there just 
as he Is bore at school. There was 
Red sitting up in bed doing Calcu
lus. He is a regular fellow all right, 
for anyone who can do Calc with a 
broken leg has got to be a real man. 
Well, he said he was having the time 
of his life and was enjoying every 
minute of his stay at the hospital, but 
ho would a darn sight rather get out 
and go to Penn State. Ho was ex
pecting to get the reports of the game 
over the radio which Mr. Davis is 
putting in his room. From his point 
of view he will be on the bench at the 
Notre Dame game. Roamer, that is 
my idea of school spirit! Go down to 
see him, and talk it up among the fel
lows, for ho would like to see you all.
OSWALD III.
You have the right stuff Oswald. 
Let's all go down and cheer Red up 
a bit. He deserves it.
ROAMER.
MUSIKERS SMOKER 
COMING VERY SOON
Every Man to Present 
Individual Number
IDddio Cantors folllos review will 
have nothing on the preview' of stunts 
that will bo put on at tho annual 
Musical Clubs smoker In tho Union, 
Evory man in, tho club is working on 
some comic number, and the program 
in sure to Include everything foolish 
from soap to doughnuts.
Black face stunts, character sketchon, songs, monologues, and to top It 
all ofl, a one-act play will-be pro
duced.
IDvory year, stunts aro becoming a 
moro important; part of tho Musical 
Club program,!and this year tho comic 
productions are sure to put the clubs 
over and balance up the program.
Finally tliore will be eats mid 
smokes to add to the joyous frame 
of mind of all those present.
Everyone who is at all interested 
in the work of the Musical Clubs, is 
invited to come. Watch next weeks 
Tartan for the date.
STATE OR BUST IS 
BUMMERS SLOGAN
Lift Experts Receive Hearty 
Welcome as They Stream 
into State College
Penn State or Bust. Few of the 
bummers from Carnegie Tech who 
started last week to hike to Penn 
State had any need of displaying the 
busted sign before the end of the 
trip. Pickups were so numerous by 
drivers of machines, that in some 
cases the bummers could well afford 
Lo turn down offers of lifts in Fords 
in order to get better satisfaction in 
riding in Packards, Marmons, etc.
The first man to leave Pittsburgh 
had the best luck of all. He left, at 
twelve oclock Thursday noon and 
arrived at Penn State at ten oclock 
the same night. He got the first lift 
which took him to Altoona, a block 
from the start, and the next lift 
took him to State College.' Five 
others left at one-thirty Thursday 
and reached State College early Fri
day. By three oclock Friday, twelve 
bummers had arrived, and, as most 
of them were wearing Plebe caps, 
they soon were well known about 
town. About four o'clock, four Mag
gie Murphs arrived, and from then 
on a continuous stream came in.
They were all treated like Kings 
during the whole time they were in 
State. Hugo Bezdeks son introduced 
himself to the bunch early Friday 
afternoon and in him we found a 
real sport. All day Friday and part 
of Saturday was spent in going 
airound town, visiting fraternity 
houses and swapping experiences. In 
the evening the Penn State bunch 
had a rally, and through the efforts 
of young Bezdek, who secured thirtreserved seats for the Tech bum
mers, they were all able to go and 
have a good time. While they were 
outnumbered four thousand to ten, 
the Tech bunch certainly showed the 
State men that they could yell, and 
you may be sure that State showed 
them some real cheering. The men 
living in tlie dorms of Old Main 
(the big-, building with the clock 
tower) put the fellows up for the 
night.
After the game it was a simple 
matter to make the return trip to 
Pittsburgh. Many of the fellows had 
tickets for the Special, given them 
by Carnegie rooters who had come 
on the Special, but who were stay
ing over for the lioiise parties. The 
rest of the bummers easily got lifts 
as far as Altc-ona or Johnstown, and 
irom there they had no difficulty in 
completing the trip.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
Mining Department News
GIRLS HOLD BAKE SALE 
TO HELP FINANCE PROM
C. M. E. S. WANTS NEW MEN
OUT AT MEETING TOMORROW
Tho Carnogio Mechanical Engineer
ing Society will hold its second meet
ing of the year Thursday evening, No
vember 1G, at. olght oclock.
Mr. Cook of the Blast Furnace and 
Stool Plant, Mayisino, la to bo tho 
speaker of the ovonhig. Tho subject 
of his talk will concern tho editing 
and mako up of a technical magazine, 
An interesting program la being nrranged and It. Is hoped that evory 
mechanical will he present. If you 
have not joined tho society como out 
on Thursday evening anyway. Tho 
place of tho mooting Is Room It, Ma
chinery Hall.
Ohio State University claims the 
largest drum in the * Middle West 
When the drum is beaten the mem
bers of the university band' wear earmuffs to protect themselves from the 
sound. The instrument is seven feet 
in diameter and fifty inches in width. 
When mounted on its carriage, the 
top of the drum is nine feet from the 
ground.Lehigh Brown and White,
The girls of the Junior Classes of 
Margaret Morrison and College of 
Fine Arts will carry out a Bake 
Sale on Saturday at the second floor 
of the Pittsburgh market, the pro
ceeds of which will serve as a prelim
inary expense fund for the Girls Jun
ior Prom to be held later in the year. 
Cakes, candies, pies, etc., will be sold, 
and it is expected that the girls will 
have little difficulty in selling their 
entire stock. Tlie Junior girls have 
beon very active around school and 
they deserve the support of all loyal 
Carnegie Tech students in their en
deavor to make this sale a success. 
Blair Jessop is chairman of the com
mittee in charge of the affair and she 
will be assisted by the following girls: 
Eleanor Riosmeyer, Grace Slierisf, 
Eleanor Wilt., Helen Johnson, Thelma 
Loatherman, and Francis McClymond.
Any Carnegie Tech supporters who 
are near tho market Saturday should 
not forgot to give the girls their 
support.
On last Friday afternoon the Min
ing Department held its regular bi
monthly lecture on mine operation 
and organization. The speakers 
wore John I. Pratt State Mine In
spector of Bituminous District Num
ber Seventeen, and Alexander McCancli, Stale Mine Inspector of Bi
tuminous District Number One.
Mr. P.ratt spoke on the organiza
tion, opera,tion and police power of 
tlie State Department, of Mines. This 
was a very interesting talk and very 
practical to the mining engineer, 
who soon expects to begin working 
in bituminous mines.
Mr. MeCanch spoke on the laws 
as affecting the development and 
practice of a coal mine. This 'short 
informal talk cleared up many of 
the points in respect to the state 
mining laws which were not fully 
understood by the students. This 
subject was very important; to tho 
men, who will soon be working in 
the mines, as one of the first reriulrements of a miner is to know 
the mining laws.
Mr. Tadlock to Address 
Radio A\eeting Tonight
Mr. W. L. Tadlock will address the 
Radio Club this evening on Radio 
Measurements. Mr. Tadlock has 
had a great amount of experience in 
this kind of work, and his talk should 
be very interesting to all radio men. 
The meeting will be called at 7:30 in 
Room 104 Machinery Hall, Wednes
day, November 15.
Tlie Radio Club has secured the use 
of Room 407 in Welsh Hall, in which 
a very complete radio receiving and 
transmitting set will be installed. 
This work is going forward rapidly, 
and it is expected that the station 
will be in operation within a few 
weeks. Ail students who are interest
ed in radio are urged to attend the 
meetings of the club, for interesting 
programs have been prepared.
SALE OF NOTRE DAME
TICKETS SATISFACTORY
It has been said beforetoday it 
will be repeated!
"Carnegie Tech is rapidly forging 
ahead!
The reason is very simple  good 
men are being turned out in the grad
uating classes; men who are practi
cal; men who are not afraid to do 
that menial labor so necessary to 
learn; men whose pride is not so 
self-evident that they cannot forget 
its presence; men, who upon gradua
tion, appreciate the fact that they are 
just beginning to learn; men who 
know not the words: I quit; men
who can take orders as well as give.
BUT: IS IT TRUE?
Yes, it isbut not 100 per cent so!
Perfection has not been attained 
yet. Black sheep are often found 
inter-mixed with a herd of white' 
ones; yet the herd is still described 
as a herd of white sheep.
Going back a few weeks to the first 
article under this column, the follow
ing words are found: So this col
umn is going to tell you about Car
negie Tech and her achievements. Tn 
getting these, the writer has inter
viewed many graduates, all of whom 
have co-operated in getting together 
the facts. The conversation with one 
was so interestingly contrary lo 
what was expected that the writer is 
going to comment upon it.
Condensing: This graduate, who is 
a very successful business man, 
claims Carnegie Tech is not turning 
out the type of men it shouldrather, 
on the contrary, men who are over
estimating their ability; men who be
lieve they already know it all; 
men who believe it below' them to 
take orders; men who, in short, to 
use a slang expression, are "big
headed over being a Carnegie Tech 
graduate.
BUT: IS IT TRUE?
No, it is notat least not 100 per 
cent so!
The writer knows a graduate who 
is of the undesirable type. He also 
knows many who are of the desirable 
type. Who is to blame for the for
mer? How can they be eradicated? 
What is the remedy?
The blame is either in the man. or 
in the faculty. The greater is no 
doubt in the man. A man is a man 
and many are of a type which cannot 
be changed. These, no matter how 
great the influence to change may ber 
will not be changed. Therein lies 
one cause of the undesirable type of 
graduate. It just cant be helped, for 
too often such types are scholars, ami 
graduation is dependent upon scholar
ship. The only solution for this type 
lies in the man himselflet us all 
thoroughly examine ourselves!
As to the facultymight not them 
be some among them who place too 
high a premium on scholarship, in 
lieu to practical ability, general at
titude, and aptitude, physical incapao 
ities, etc.?
The graduate who caused this ar
ticle no doubt had foundations for 
his opinion. Graduates opinions 
mold the schoolthey, by their ac
tions, can do harm or good and it is 
their thoughts which guide their ac
tions.
Therefore:
Yours for thought on this matter,
H. F. SIMPSON.
Music Dept. Will Give 
Recitals During Year
First Program to be Given 
Sunday, Nov. 19
Exceptionally fine programs were 
given every Sunday evening last' 
ear by members of the Music De
partment in the College of Fine Arts, 
and large and appreciative audi
ences turned out. Similar programs 
of a strictly musicaL nature are to 
be given again this year, and will 
be started off with a. recital Sunday 
evening, November 19, at 8:15, in 
the Little Theater with the following 
program:
1. Chopin. Scherzo,in B fiat min
or. Pagan ini-Liszt. La Campanella.
Nancy Fast
2. Tchaikovsky. Violin Concerto.
Opus 35, first movement 
Max Silverman
3. Schubert. Fantasy in C. Opus 15
Oscar h. Helfenbein
4. Beethoven. Piano Quartet. Opus 1G
Grave-allegro ma non troppo 
Alice Kirk, Marie Kleyle. Francis 
Kleyle, Joe Replogle 
AccompanistOscar L. Helfenbein. 
The next recital will be given 
Sunday, December 3, at S:lf> p. m.
Pat: On my way to the Grand
Canyon the train went so fast we 
couldnt see a thing.
Mike: Yes, the box car didn't
have any windows.
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
nenr 'tUth Street, New York 
Style shoes of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
R.O.T.C. Will March in 
Carnegie Day Exercises
The entire Carnegie Battalion of 
the R. O. T. C. will march from the 
Central Building to the Music Hall 
for the exercises on Carnegie Day. 
At the request of Dr. Baker, tho Sig
nal Corps and the Motor Transport 
Corps, along with the Engineer Corps, 
will march from the drill ground over 
to the Central Building, where the 
colors will be received. After formal
ly receiving the colors the battalion 
will march to the Music Hall, where 
it will be dismissed for the assembly.
FACULTY DANCING CLUB
The Faculty Dancing Club held 
its first meeting in the M. M. Rec
reation Hall Tuesday, November 7.
Mr. Karl Heinrich was the instruc
tor, and took charge of a class of 
about fifty. The committee was com
posed of Mrs. H. Lang and Mr. H. K. 
Kirkpatrick.
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .........................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
Start the 
Week Right
Church on Sunday 
puts new pep into Mon
day, Tuesday, Wednes
daytill Sunday comes 
again. Try it and see.
Oakland Methodist 
Church
FORBES AND 
BOQUET
Fifty steps from tlie 
campus
(Continued from Page One) 
ceived as to the size of the crowd 
| which will come from Notre Dame but 
they will no doubt have a rooting sec
tion at the game.
One of tlie outstanding features of 
the game is that the band of C. I. T. 
will appear for the first time in kilts. 
This will be a treat worth while as 
it is the largest Scotch band in the 
country, and is 0110 that every Car
nogio student and alumni should bo 
proud of.
I OCHS I
m >'01->'07 Forbes St. m
= Adjoining Strand TheaterOAKLAND =
1 Warm Union Suits 1
m $1.50, $2.00, $2.50, $3.50 and $5.00 a suit M
H Warm Gloves $2.00 and $2.50 a pair ji 
1 Warm Wool Scarfs f
H TAN, BROWN AND GRAY ||
H $1.65, $2.75 and up to $6.50 f 
I NEW SHIRTS AND NECKWEAR FOR THANKSGIVING I
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
Franks Restaurant
4527 FORBES STREET
Under New ManagementFortner Tech Man. 
Cleanest and Best Home Cooking 
DELICIOUS PASTRIES 
Luther G. Dauth, Proprietor.
0000020002110102000202010002020002010001000101020202000000000100
00010102020202000000000201010202010200020200020001010401020100

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
LPLAID ATHLETICS
St. Bonaventure
Game Cancelled
At the time of going to press, 
word was received from the office 
of Graduato Manager of Athlet.ic.5 
Frank Haaren, that the game with 
St Bonaventure, scheduled to be 
.played next Saturday afternoon at 
the Carnegie Tech Field, bad been 
called off by the Graduate Manager, 
acting in behalf of tlie authorities in 
charge of athletics at Carnegie.
It was brought out at this time 
that no word had as yet been re
ceived from St. Bonaventure con
cerning the peaceful cancellation of 
the game, but it was hoped that the 
authorities of the New York school 
would1 not attempt to hold Carnegie 
to its scheduled encounter.
This action at the last moment 
was made absolutely necessary due 
to the crippled condition of many of 
Carnegies first string men.
Added to the potent argument of 
injured players and few substitutes 
is the fact that the Freshman team 
is unavailable, as they play Indiana 
Normal this Saturday afternoon, at 
Indiana, Pa.
When it is considered that the list 
of injured players and of men in 
poor condition includes the names 
of Godden, Comfort, Irwin. Ander
son, Rosenbloom, Zelt and Robertson, 
and that the number of substitutes 
available to take the places of these 
men in a satisfactory manner is very 
limited, the decision of the Carnegie 
authorities not to risk their team 
against the huskies of St  Bonaven
ture stands out as an act of wisdom.
Carnegie-State Details
CARNEGIE KILTIE BAND
WILL APPEAR IN MOVIES
(Continued From Page One.) 
public, movies are to be taken for 
the Pathe News Service and other 
national movie news companies. A 
college band' uniformed in kilts is a 
national feature since it will be 
the only one in 'this country, and the 
second in the world'. Since the 
movies are shown all over the coun
ty it certainly will advertise the colege.
Last week a,bout two hundred feet 
of movies were taken of the band, 
the game1 and the Carnegie rooting 
section at the Penn State game. 
They will be shown this week at 
the Grand Theater downtown.
ST. ANDREW'S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Center and Morewood Avenues.
Henry P. Eckhardt, Pastor.
Services : 10:45 A. M. arid 7:45 
P. M. All seats free. On and 
after October 29, there will be a 
4:30 Vesper Service instead of 
at 7:45 P. M. Sunday School 
and Bible Classes for adults and 
young people, 9:30 A. M. The 
Church extends a cordial wel
come to all students of Tech.
TRAVELEBSrCHECKS 
No matter where you go, 
east, west, north, south, 
we can provide you with 
travelers checks which 
will assure the safety of 
your funds. They are ex
changeable anywhere 
without further trouble or 
expense. Call, or write 
our Steamship Agency 
which is a part of our or
ganization.
Mellon National BankOliver Jlue.& SrmthfieldJL
H.H. Smith Hazel 3320
TheBlackimps
ORCHESTRA
S. E. Kovach, Jr. Sch.9211
First Quarter.
Captain Bentz kicked off for State 
at 12:10. The ball went to Robertson 
on 12-yard line, who ran to the 36. 
Robertson went off right tackle for 
four yards. Brumbaugh failed through 
center. Robertson, on fake double 
pass, made two yards. Anderson 
punted to Palm on States 15-yard line. 
Wilson went off right tackle for three 
yards. Wentz made four through cen
ter. Wentz made eight more for a 
first down on States 30. Wilson 
made five off right tackle, but Palm 
made but one, when Irwin tackled, 
Wentz failed at center, but on the next 
try he made first down by inches.
Wilson cut off left tackle for eight 
yards. Potter threw Palm for no gain. 
Wilson, on fake double-pass, made 
first down. Hufford fumbled and Ros
enbloom recovered at midfield.
Robertson lost four yards, second 
down 14 to go. Robertson made 12 
on a run around right end. Brum
baugh went out of bounds after gain
ing one yard. Fourth down, one to 
go. State was off side, giving Tech 
first down on State 35-yard line.
Bedenk threw Brumbaugh for one 
yard loss on fake double pass. Rob
ertson went around left end for 20 
yards. Palm stopped him on State 
15-yard line. Palm was hurt, time 
out.
Palm * resumed play. Robertson 
made one yard at right tackle. Mc
Mahon threw Brumbaugh for one yard 
loss at left tackle. Robertson made 
three yards at right tackle, fourth 
down, six to go. Robertsons pass to 
Newman failed. States ball on their 
10-yard line.
Palms punt went over Robertsons 
head and rolled to Tech 16-yard line, 
Where it fell dead. Robertson around 
right end lost five yards when tackled 
by Frank. Robertson failed to gain 
at left tackle.
On double pass, Potter made two 
yards, but Tech was penalized 15 
yards, placing ball on one-yard line. 
Anderson punted from behind line to 
Palm on Tech 40. Wilson lost one 
yard at right tackle. Palm made four 
on a double pass, Wilson cut off left 
tackle for a first down.
Wentz made four on a try at right 
tackle. The period ended. Score: 
State 0, Tech 0.
Second Quarter.
Ball was on Tech 25-yard line. Sec
ond down for State, six to go, Wilson 
made 20 off left tackle. Wentz made 
four through center. Palm knifed off 
left tackle for two more. Wentz made 
one and it was fourth down. Wilson 
made first down on the one-yard line. 
Wilson went through right tackle for 
a touchdown. Palm drop-kicked the 
extra point. ScoreState 7, Tech 0.
Bentz again kicked off to Robert
son on three-yard line, he came buck 
to the 33-yard line. Hufford hurt, time 
out. He resumed play. Robertsons 
pass to Newman was grounded. Wil
son batted down a pass from Lamb 
to Newman, third down, 10 to go.
A pass, Lamb to Robertson, netted 
40 yards, Wentz pulling him down 
from the rear. Robertson made two 
at right tackle. State was penalized 
five yards for offside. Brumbaugh hit 
let guard for three yards. Ball on 
States 15-yard lino. Brumbaugh made 
four more at the same place. Brum
baugh made two at loft tackle; Rob
ertson failed to make first down off 
right tackle. States ball on 10-yard 
line. Robertson was hurt, time out. 
A line buck here might have made 
good for Tech.
Wilson on fake kick made five yards 
off tackle. Wentz made one at center. 
Palm punted to Robertson on Tech 
40-yard line, he reached the State 41- 
yard line before Wilson nailed him. 
Robertson was hurt again. Time out. 
He resumed play.
On the first play Tech was off side, 
losing five yards. Potters pass to 
Newman was incomplete. Wilson in
tercepted Lambs pass on State 25- 
yard line. Wilson went off tackle for 
S yards. State was penalized 15 yards 
for holding. Wilsons pass grounded, 
as did o>ne from Palm. Palm punted to 
Robertson on Tech 40-yard line, he 
ran out of bounds at midfield. Robert
son circled right end for 25 yards. 
Brumbaugh made three at left tackle. 
State took time out.
Robertson was replaced by Wierman. Brumbaugh made two at left 
guard. Wierman failed to gain at 
left end. Frank grounded Lambs 
pass. Brumbaugh made two at left 
guard. Wierman failed to gain at left 
end. Frank grounded Lambs pass. 
On fourth down Palm batted down 
Lambs pass. States ball on their
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
ANYBODYS GAME
Thats the comment that Hugo Bezdek had to make after the game last 
Saturday. And-it was anybodys game, for the Tartans came close to scoring 
on two occasions in the first half, and even in the final stages of tlie game 
made things lively for the Nlttany boys. The Tartan hosts were hopeful of 
victory but were doomed  to disappointment although their spirits never 
faltered.
Harry Wilson, States star halfback, was almost a whole team in himself. 
He was in nearly every play and was a real Lion both on the offense and 
defense. If he continues liis spectacular work for the remainder of the sea
son, he will surely make a bid for All-American honors.
Mike Moran, who hasnt been able to play since injuring liis shoulder 
in the Yale game, surely did admirable work for the time he was in the game 
and evidently his shoulder is coming around in good shape. He will be a 
valuable man against Notre Dame due to his ability in the aerial type of 
game.
The final score of 10-0 wasnt quite to our satisfaction but still it was 
considerably different from that 2S-7 of last year. If it hadnt been for our 
long list of cripples the story might have had a different tune.
GLIMPSES AT THE GAME
The cheering was rather weak at the game except for one small section 
in the grandstand. This defect in the Tartan showing was no doubt due to 
the fact that the Plaid rooters had no particular section in which to group 
themselves. Instead most of them were scattered all over the field, being 
intermingled with the State men. The Tartan cheerleaders looked real 
snappy in their new red caps and did quite well.
The band was a little disgruntled at the position they had to occupy 
along the sidelines but nevertheless they made fully as much if not more 
noise than the khaki clad band of Penn State. Wait until they are attired 
in their kilts. State College will be tickled tO'death to see them march up 
the street and give them a better and more comfortable position on the 
field.
Somebody told us that there was a small group of Carnegie Tech men at 
the game who were making remarks not entirely in accord with Carnegie 
spirit and traditions. We dont know who these men are, but whoever they 
are they had to be quieted down. These men should remember that tlieir 
actions reflect on the good name of Carnegie Tech and should refrain from 
such unsportsman-like conduct in the future.
THE HARRIERS LOSE
Although Dykeman came through in his usual good style, the rest of the 
team failed to finish strong enough and close enough together to count a 
winning score. The State runners were well bunched and managed to keep 
their scores low enough so that the count of last year's riieet was pmctically 
reversed. Captain Greenlaw did not finish in the race due to an attack of 
an old ailment which has been affecting his showing all season. Coach 
Beeler hopes to get him fixed up by the A. M. A. meet on Saturday. This is 
the first time that Carnegie Tech has conducted a Senior A. M. A. meet and 
as the plans are developing now it should be a big success.
JOKERS
We were tipped off that the football squad has a new song. As the boys 
started to get on the train the other day for their trip down to State, they 
noted Cy Comfort with his lame knee, Moran with liis silver strung shoulder 
and Doc Taylor with his bandaged jaw. Some wit started this refrain: "The 
cripples are coming, hurray, hurray; The cripples are coming well win to
day.
Mefort believes in being prepared for we heard that he carried a cap 
pistol along with him as a protection against the wild natives up in Center 
county. .The boys also got him out hunting snipes and say that he stayed 
rather late. We have no data at present on how many he caught.
OVERCOATS |
TAILORED TO YOUR MEASURE |
Individuality I
Durabilty j
Perfect Fit I
1WE ARE |
Exclusive Oakland Dealers j
FOR
. $35 io $50
DAVIES & HUGHES
OAKLANDS MENS STORE 
3615 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
20-yard line. Wilson made four at 
center. Wentz added three at same 
spot Wilson made it first down for 
State off right tackle.
Wentz went through center for two 
yards, Wilson was stopped by Sprinkle 
for no gain. Wilson made 30 yards on 
a double pass, going to Tech's 40-yard 
line. Tech was penalized five yards 
off side. Palm made three at right 
tackle. Wilson added four at left 
tackle. Palm passed to Wilson for an 
eight-yard gain and a first down, on 
Tech 19-yard lino.
Palm to Wilson made six more 
yards. Palm dropkicked a beautiful 
field goal from the 25-yard line. Score 
State 10, Tech 0.
Bentz kicked-off to Wierman on his 
15-yard line. He returned to his 40- 
yard line. Wilson intercepted Lambs 
pass on States 40-yard and ran to 
Tech's 38 before being downed. A 
pass, Palm to Frank made five yards 
as half ended. Score: State 10,
Tech 0.
Third Quarter.
Lamb kicked off over goal line, 
States ball on 20-yard line. Wilson 
made 8 yards off right tackle. State 
lost 15 yards for hurdling. Wilson 
made 3 yards at right tackle. Palm 
punted to Robertson at midfield, the 
latter returning to the iState 35-yard 
line before being tackled by Frank. 
Robertson failed at left end. Robert
son fumbled, but recovered for a 1- 
yard gain. Artelt blocked Robertson's 
pass, fourth down, 10 to go. Anderson 
attempted an on-side kick, Wilson 
catching it on his 10-yard line. Wil
son made 3 yards at right tackle. Palm 
added 5 yards more through center. 
Wentz made 5 yards and a first down 
on States 23-yard line. Time out for 
Tech. Wilson, on fake buck, made 3 
yards at center. Palm cut off left 
tackle for 3 yards more. Palms pass 
to Artelt made 3 yards more, and 
Wentz made it first down.
Wilson cut left tackle for 4 yards. 
Moran replaced Anderson for Tecli. 
Wentz made 1 yard at center. Wil
son's pass to Palm was intercepted 
by Moran on States 43-yard line, Rob
ertson made no gain at right end. 
Brumbaugh made 4 yards, but Tecli 
was offside, and was penalized 5 yards. 
Robertson regained tlie 5 yards at left 
tackle. Newman punted out of bounds 
on States 3-yard line. Palm punted 
from behind his goal line to his 46- 
yard line, where the ball fell dead. 
Tech lost 15 yards on a penalty. Rob
ertson made up 13 yards off right
tackle. Brumbaugh made 4 yards 
more at center. Robertson's pass 
grounded. Fourth down, 0 yards to 
go. Newman punted out of bounds 
again, this time on State's 15-yard 
line.
Wilson dodged through every Tech 
man but Robertson, for a 12-yard gain, 
Palm made 4 yards more at left tackle. 
Wentz got 2 yards at center. Time 
out for State. Play resumed. Palm 
to Frank, netted State 8 yards, and 
first down. Palm niade 10 yards more 
through the left side of the line. Kristoft replaced Rosenbloom. State was 
penalized 15 yards for pushing. Palm 
to Artelt gained 5 yards, Lamb inter
cepted a pass in mid field. Brumbaugh 
made. 2 yards through center 'as tho 
period ended. Score: State 10, Tech
0. Teams holding conference.
Fourth Quarter.
Play resumed. On a double pass, 
Robertson to Potter, made three yards. 
Lambs pass was grounded. Newman 
punted to Palm on 10-yards line. He 
returned to the 18; Wilson gained five 
yards at right guard. Time out for 
State. Play resumed. Wentz made 
two at center. Wentz made two mor 
BILL SAYS:
There is a sign along the cut say
ing: "No thoroughfare. Too bad so 
few people can read words of more 
than one syllable. The word "No" 
ought to be enough. In all fairnoss, 
It must be said that all offenders, es
pecially on football days, do not seem 
to be students. Perhaps, however, 
if Carnegie Tech students were not 
seen to cross, visitors would not. If 
we show no care of our own campus 
we cannot expect others to do so. 
Every one who crosses is responsible. 
No one is privileged. The busiest 
men and women of Carnegie take the 
extra, minute to go around. The dif
ference in time is not enough to ruin 
your chance for a seat at the football 
game. Soon the ground will be frozen 
and covered with snow. Just as much 
damage is done at that time for con
tinual tramping kills just as relent
lessly one time as another.
Did you notice how cocky the 
Plebes were last Wednesday, when 
they were being marched to the Mu
sic Hall? Now, I dont believe the 
Plebes are really fresh or cocky by 
nature or inheritance; they are just a 
little misguided, that's all, and need 
a few Sophomores to guide them in 
the strnight and narrow path.
But is it reasonable to expect any 
kind of order among the marching 
Plebes, when a mere handful of vigi
lant Sophs try to look after the wel
fare of several hundred newcomers to 
the campus?
Theres no use mincing words. The 
Sophomores gotta show some action. 
The Plebes need razzing; they need 
close and careful watching, and if 
the class of twenty-five doesnt re
move the kid gloves and administer 
curative measures, then it looks as 
though twenty-five must take a little 
razzing itself.
ANNUAL VARSITY CLAN
FOOTBALL BANQUET NOV. 25
Carnegie-State Mentors 
Make Personal Comments
(Continued From Page One.) 
nus, and you, Tech Student, are priv
ileged to attend this real gathering of 
the Carnegie Clan.
Please inform the committee that 
you are coming. Tf tho number of 
people who will attend the banquet is 
not known boforohand the problom ol 
niaking the hotel arrangements will 
be very difficult. Fill in tho reserva
tion slip at tho bottom of this page 
and send It now to W. L. Moorehoad. I 
or send for your ticket.
Tickets may bo secured lpy sending 
a money order or check for thron dol-1 
lars and a half to G. D. Lain, in care | 
of G. L. Tilbroolc, Alumni Secretary. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The "C Clubthe undergraduate 
Varsity Clanhas appointed five ol 
its members to assist tho alumni with 
tho details of the banquet. Coopor 
and Kalablscli are chief painters on 
the publicity committee. Cooper 
and Dykeman are going to hold the 
money bags for Lain on tin financial 
committee, and Jack Franklin Is as
sisting Dan Casev on tho entertain
ment commit'
Each ppiT'*'- who has thus far noon 
asked nssist has put his shoulder 
in r m wheel to help push tho banquet 
f > the top and away over, and now 
you are aslcad to take the opportunat conter, measuring for dl>tfourth down, inches to go. Wentz1 Ity for socuring a reservation to this 
made three at right guard for first | very appropriate ending of a very suedown, on 30-yard line. Wilson got 
three off left tackle. Wentz hurt,, time 
out for State. Wilson get a new jer
sey to replace the one torn on the 
last play. Getting lined up to start 
again. Play resumed. Wilson made 
five yards on a fake double pass. State 
penalized five yards for off side. Wil
son got back four of it. Palm punted 
to Robertson on Tech 30. He was 
tackled by Frank, on the 35. Brum
baugh made five at center. Robertcessful football season. Bo at tho 
Schenley after the Notre Dame gamo 
and meet your old cronios along with 
the other alumni whom you have not 
met. but should know. Support Car
negie, the team, Steffen, and every
thing that needs supporting by at
tending this football banquet rallyat 
the Schenley. on the twenty-fifth.
45-yard line lo Palm on the-State 
45-yard line, Moran made thetackle, 
son cut through for four more. Flock Palm was knocked out. Time out for
Much is said on tho football gamo 
by the reporters, but does their view
point tell the whole story of how the 
gamo is actually played or should have 
boon played? Were the numerical 
results of tho game in accord with 
tho true strength of tho opposing 
teams, and did tho game as played 
present opportunities for each team to 
show what they had?
In tho Penn State-Carnegle game, 
did Hugo Bezdek make a mistake in 
the ovor-niglit shift of his light backfield for a heavy one. He took a wild 
cliance and got away with it. In that 
respect he is unlike most of the fore
most coaches of tho time.
I made that change, said Bezdek 
"because it was my only alternative, 
with full knowledge that my choice 
would bo a risk and yet the determin
ing factor on the offensive." Upon be
ing questioned about the permanency 
of these two backlield men, his answer 
left an impression upon tho interview
er that ho was forced to uso theso 
mon for tills particular game in order 
to tako advantage of the circum
stances of a crippled opposing line, 
and that tho experiment although suc
cessful with one may not work as 
well with another.
"Our boys did exeellont work, de
spite their sluvttored condition, re
marked Wally Steffen, "in consider
ing our casualties, tho best I hoped 
for before the game was to hold the 
Penn -State team to two touchdowns. 
The breaks of tho gamo were evenly 
distributed, and the ultimate score of 
course was not satisfactory to mo 
after seeing how hard our boys fought 
for every yard and then noticing tho 
luck at attempts for repeated oppor
tunities to score.
In contrasting tho aerial work of 
the two teams, tho combination of 
Palm to Frank and Wilson was a bit 
of luck mixed with more experience 
over tho attempted passes of Lamb 
to Robertson.
It was a clean, hard-fought game, 
and Anybodys game, was the last 
statement mado. by Bozdok.
A II Amusements I
THE COMING WEEK
AT THE GRAND
One. of the most, unusual p'lcturos 
that has over boon brought to tho 
cinema acromi is "Brawn of tho 
North, the eight-reel First National 
supor-npool.il which has boon secured 
l'or presentation throughout next 
week, starting Monday morning, No
vember 20, at tho Million Dollar 
Grand, Pittsburgh. Tho unique fea
ture or It. Is that. In tho midst, of a 
gripplngly interesting .ind human 
story, with famous men and women 
players In tho Important roles, a 
wonderful dog, Stronghearl, has tho 
center of action Strongheart 1 tho 
animal of extraordinary intelligence 
imported from Europe for photoplay 
purposes by Jano Murfiin, and which 
mado a sensational debut In "Tho 
Silent Call, In "Itrawn of tho 
North," however, ho has been pro
vided with a story and production 
that load to entertainment ranking 
with the bost of the year,
Lawrence Trimble in association 
wtl111 Miss Murila supervised tho 
making of "Brawn of tho North," and 
tho loading members of tho cast In
cludo tho beautiful Irono Rich, Loo 
Shumway, handsome, sturdy and a 
splendid actor; Joseph Barrel, Roger 
James Manning, Philip' Hubbard, 
Jean Metcalf and Baby Evangeline 
Bryant.
PROGRAM AT THE
DAVIS NEXT WEEK
Penn State Hill and 
Dalers Defeat Tartans
Dykeman Again Leads tlie 
Field. National A. A. U. 
Meet Next
The Penn State hill and dale run.- 
nors showed unexpected strength Sat
urday morning and turned in a victory 
over tho strong Carnegie Tech toa.no. 
Tho score was 28 32.
Howard Dykeman of Carnegie again* 
showed his bools to all other contest
ants, winning tho five-mllo run in tho 
tlmo of 2S minutes and 27 seconds. 
However, no other Plaid harrieir 
crossed the line until two Stato men. 
had followed Dykeman at the finish. 
Ferrall was tho second Tartan to 
score.
Closely following tho winner wore 
Horton and Captain Enck, both ot 
State. Ferrall was followed by three 
State runners, Decker, Wendler and 
Ivreiter, who finished fifth, sixth and 
seventh, respectively. Mendenhall ol 
Carnegie took eighth place with Fitz
patrick of Stato ninth and Tubbs ol 
tho Plaid team tenth. The position 
of the first five men on each team 
figured in tho scoring.
It will be remembered that last 
year the Tartans won handily; but 
Bill Martin's charges demonstrated 
that what lias been done once can not 
always bo done again. The result of 
Saturdays run seems to indicate that 
the team representing Stato College 
is bettor balanced than that of tho 
Skibos, for, although a Carnegie man 
finished first, the rest of the team was 
far behind, while tho Blue and White 
harriers finished nlmost as a group.
Interest is now centered on the an
nual senior cross-country champioiksliips of the A. A. U., to bo hold over 
the Schenley Park courso under this 
auspices of tho Carnoglo Institute ol 
Technology. Keen competition is ex
pected from the number of entrie 
thus far rocoivod.
Last year tho reserves of Carnegie 
Tech took part and finished in third 
place, a good showing considering tho 
class of tho competition. This year 
tho varsity will take part and a hard 
race in oxpoctod.
stopped Robertson for no gain at 
right tackle. Brumbaugh made it 
first down for Tech, on 45-yard line. 
Robertsons pass failed. Another 
pass did likewise. Robertson to 
Lamb gained nine yards, but Tech 
lost 15 i'or clipping. A 40-yard pass 
from Lamb was battered down by 
Pa;in. Newman punted to Palm on 
States 25-yard line. He returned to 
the 40. Wilson made three at left 
guard. Palm made eight yards and 
a first down at right end. Wentz 
bucked center for two more. Wilson 
made one at center. Reid replaced 
Zelt. Palms pass failed. He punt
ed, the ball falling dead on Techs 
five-yard line. Newman punted from 
behindi the line to Palm on the State
State. Palm resumed play, however, 
State was penalized two yards for 
extra time out. Wentz mado one 
yard at center. W:lson was stopped 
by Krittoff 'for a one-yard gain. Art 
elt diopped Palms pass. Palm punt 
ed out of bounds on Tech's nine-yar*l 
line. Wierman replaced Robertson. 
Wierman made two yards on a fake 
kick. Wierman made two more at 
left end. Wierman, at right tackle 
made five. Newman punted to Palm 
on State's 35, he returned to 42. 
Wentz made four at center, but was 
hurt. Time out for State. Palm at
tempted drop-kick from the 45-yard 
line. It fell short as the game end
ed.
Final score: State 10, Tc-c-h 0.
LAMB BUCKING STATE LINE
Sophie Tucker, empress of the syn
copated inuse, now fresh from signal 
triumphs in Lohdon, will appear in 
Pittsburgh next week as the head
liner in an all-star program of Keith 
vaudeville that will be given twice 
each day in the Davis Theater. She 
wilL be aided by her Two Syncopators, Ted Shapiro and Jack Carroll, 
in a recital of songs that epitomizes 
:syncopation's varied moods.
There have been gathered about 
her a briliant group of gay entertain 
ers. The week of tho 20tli is to in
troduce such performers as Mr. Leo 
Donneilly, and Miss Markorie Dalton, 
in S. Jay Kauffmanns super-novelty, 
"Tis and Tisnt. This is an argu
ment anent the realism of the stage 
and develops a series of incidents 
showing how certain important emo
tions are portrayed in real life and 
then are depicted on the stage.
Among other particularly attrac
tive folk who will be in the bill 
with Miss Tucker and Mr. Donnelly, 
are Lou Miller and Alice Bradford, 
who will present "Typical, Topical 
Tales," and Gautiers Bricklayers, a 
sort of Christmas pantomime. Theso, 
with other acts will comprise a comsite program in which all'the angles 
of variety will be represented. A
HARD-FOUGHT GAME GOES TO 
NITANY WARRIORS BY SCOPE 
OF 100 IN ANNUAL STRUGGLE 
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.)
ly stopped b.V Itobortson. Two pass
es from Palm to Wilnon further ad
vanced tho ball and then Palm drop 
kicked a goal from I ho 25-yard line, 
Tho score thou stoodi at .10 to 0.
In tho second half it was more or 
loss of an oven battle neither fount 
Showing to any groat advantage. 
"Hap" Frank was on the reooivhitf 
end of several passes while Wilson 
contlnuod to make good gains fov 
State. On one occasion Lamb broke 
up tho Stato aerial attack when hro 
lutorcoptod a puss, in tho third 
quarter, Mlko Palm prevented tfnw 
Skibos from scoring wVwm ho knock
ed down a long pass by leaping high 
In the air for It, Tho ball was hoadod straight for the waiting arms of 
Jluntile Itobcrtson who had an opcix 
field ahead ol' him,
For State Harry Wilson was lhv 
ouL'itam'^Ing tar bint Millie I'njta 
and Wentz also deserve mention, 
whllo "Hap" Frank played a growl, 
gamo at end. Tho Plaid bright 
lights wore Robert son and Brunt 
baugh, with Potter, Zelt. and Newmaia 
playing a stollar gamo in the lb). 
"Obio, helping out after Jim An
derson was tukon out, made some 
nicepunts, Moran got into the game 
in tho second hair and helped mater
ially in breaking up the overhead 
attack of the Lions.
The lineup:
Penn State.
Franklin ....... . L. IS...
Logue ...................L. T..
Flock ....................L. G..
Bentz .....................C....
Bedenk .................R. C..
McMahon.......... R. T. .,
Artelt ..................R. E...
Palm ...................Q. B...
Wilson ...............L. II..,
Hufford ....... It. H..
Wentz .................F. B. . .
Score by periods:
State .............................o
Tecli ..............................0
OfficialsReferee, Dougherty, W, 
and J.; umpire, Taggart, Rochesterhead linesman, Godcharles, Lafayette* 
field judge, Bennett, I-Iaverford.
Time of periods15 minutes. 
TouchdownWilson. Field goal-- 
Palm, by drop kick. Point after 
touchdownPalm, by drop kick.
SubstitutionsFor Tc-ch: Wlei^
man for. Robertson, Robertson for 
Wierman, Moran for Anderson, 
Kristoff for rtosonbioom, Red fu* 
Zelt, Kristoff for Rosenbloom.
Tech. 
........ Pottea*
........... Zelt
.... Gilbeib
......... Irwin
Roseubloona 
... .Sprinkle 
... Ne win an 
. Robertson
........ Lamfr
Andersoix
Brumbaugh
10 0 010 
0 0 00
supplemental feature will be motion 
pictures of news events. Seats fer 
tho week are now on sale.
Fill Out For Football Banquet
Reserve your place at Football Banquet at Hotel'Schcnlcy, Noveinhes25th, by filling out thin blank, and forward to W. L. Moorohouoe. Do It now? 
See article on first page.
November 25th.
W. L. Moorchead, *
522 Pittsburgh Life Building,
Plttoburgh, Pa.
Please reserve ............................... covers for me at the Football
Banquet at the Schenley.
Name .. 
Address

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 15. 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
INVENTION OF EASTERN CLANS FEDERATION REPRESENTA
HELD IN PHILADELPHIA TIVE TO MEET AKRONITES
On Sunday, October 23, the Eastern 
42ans held a convention in Pliiladelat the City Club. Delegates from 
xB the Eastern Clans were present.
fit one oclock a delightful luncheon 
-sras served, after which the meeting 
-was called to order. Representatives 
mt ttie Ahimni Federation took up the 
-.rarious problems confronting Carnegie 
at present.
Al the close of the meeting, all who 
.ended felt that they had learned 
'ji great deal about the seriousness of 
Hfce situation at Carnegie Tech and 
aggressed themselves as more than 
-viJliBg to do all in their power to 
Ihelp their Alma Mater.
Tiose present included the followSagz C. Eloise McMahan, Marian L. 
iBacfc, Florence E. Langworthy, Doroaiws.1 E. Steininacher, <T. P. Bailey. A. 
W. Harsh, Haakon Styri, E. H. Bickltej, H. Y. Shaub, Billy Sands, J. S. 
Hilaries, L. E. Exline. W. H. Norman. 
W. P. Lippincott, W. M. Burke, P. W. 
Bbunel, C. M. Dill, B. D. Eisenberg, 
BIsx Freyd, F. E. Swindells, Russell 
Jtftaris, R B. Coldren, A. E. Ball, E. E. 
.'Httbb:;, N. A. Hollister. M. R. Walton, 
J'G. 1. Tilbrook, Marie Fredette, P. W. 
Schmidt, W. R. Miller.
The Akron Clan is arranging a 
meeting with the Alumni Federation 
representative of Pittsburgh, for Sat
urday night, November 18. For final 
arrangements of this meeting. Call A. 
C. Sprague, R. D. 24, South Akron, O.
BUFFALO CLAN WILL MEET
ON FRIDAY TO ORGANIZE
CLEVELAND CLAN ELECTS
G. A. EBELING PRESIDENT
"Tawrsday evening, November secvad. the Cleveland Clan held a very 
SUJnsJjr and interesting meeting at Hotic3 Winton, preceded , by a dinner in 
KngHsh Room. About forty per'sdue we re present.
"The iuain business of the meeting 
was the election of officers for the 
iXHSudag year, resulting in the selecXSon of Geo. A. Ebeling to serve as 
president; Maude Haines Montgomery, first vice president; Albert C.
second vice president, and E. F. 
Ifczinrieen as secretary-treasurer.
The Clan expects to have a busy 
season, and plans are now under way 
Rob n number of social activities which 
are Jjeing worked out by a newly ap
pointed entertainment committee coniasiing of Maude Haines Montgomery, 
Wa2 N. Bossart, and Corwin A. Waite. 
Thn first of these will probably be 
a party in the next few weeks where 
'tre can all become better acquainted.
committee has hinted that a 
f9ristmas party might also be held.
A number of the alumni expect to 
EP io Pittsburgh on Friday afternoon 
so s tobe oil hand for the Notre 
Stowne game. At this game we hope to 
sen the band in their new kilts, for 
a contribution was collected 
aaaiong tiie Clan members.
Avy future arrivals or visitors from 
Carnegie Tecli are requested to get in 
Voncia with the Clan Secretary, E. F. 
UwUEtfteen, 12722 Barrington avenue.
FOUND
Found two pairs of shell rimmed 
.spectacles. Inquire at the office * ot 
ftfjc T>e<m of Men.
RADIO SPECIALS 
WD-11 Westlnghouse
Aeriotron ...........................$7.50
"33 Blade Variable
Condensers .........................$3.40
23 Blade Variable
Condensers .........................$3.85
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig Street 
Electrical Supplies
Auto Accessories j
On Friday, November 17, the Buffalo 
Clau will hold an organization meet
ing at 75 Niagara Square.
All former Carnegie Tech students 
who expect to be within a reasonable 
radius of Buffalo are urgently re
quested to be present.
Tills is going to be a big year.
Keep up the old Carnegie Tecli 
spirit.
ALUMNI ARE URGED TO *:
TURN IN PERSONAL NEWS v
> To all clans! Get your name > 
in the Tartan and the Alumnus. >
? The oftener the better.
-I* Send us all sorts of news and < 
I* personal notes. *
*> Do not send them direct to the 
v Tartan. Send them to the Alumni *!
? Office, C. I. T. *:
I* They will then be played up v 
v to the best advantage to all con? cerned. *!
Lets go! A little action! *
Faculty Notes
M. M. ALUMNAE TO HOLD 
BAKE SALE FOR BENEFIT
OF SCHOLARSHIP FUND
With the theater party over, the 
Margaret Morrison Alumnae will turn 
their undivided attention to the next 
number on their program.
A Bake Sale, for the benefit of the 
Alumnae Association Scholarship 
fund, will be held on Saturday, Decem
ber 2 (morning, afternoon and night) 
at the East End branch of the Phil
adelphia Company, G119 Penn avenue. 
This most desirable location for the 
sal<? was obtained through the cour
tesy of Mr. McDonald, Manager.
The committee In charge asks each 
member of the Association to get out 
her choice recipes for cakes, cookies, 
pastries, bread, doughnuts, plum pud
dings, candies, jams, marmalades, etc., 
for a generous donation from each 
one Is needed to make the sale a 
financial success. Last year, the Bake 
Sale committee worked untiringly, but 
they lacked the material support of 
the majority, therefore they could not 
supply all their eager customers. The 
sale is an alumnae affair, not a com
mittee affair alone, and your co-opera
tion, individually and collectively, is 
urgently requested.
Solicitors will call upon you within 
a few days. Get your minds made up 
as to your donations and make these 
donations worthy of Margaret Morri
son College alumnae.
The Educational Department of the 
Westlnghouse Electric & Manufactur
ing Company extends an invitation to 
the members of the faculty and the 
students who would be Interested to 
attend the meeting on "Industrial and 
Public School Relations of the con
vention of the National Personnel As
sociation. This meeting will be held 
in the Chamber of Commerce audi
torium Friday evening, November 10, 
at eight oclock.
The following letter was received 
by a member of the faculty, who 
passes It on to others who may find 
pleasure in reading it:
"Dere sir. in reading your wrete 
up in the Mechanical engineering One 
Turbo compressors, writer is interest
ed in turbo compressors Will be very 
grateful If you will send us the names 
of all the People you know of that 
make turbo compressors
If you have any lltture one turbo 
compressors or information one same 
would like very much to have it 
You will find self addressed iuvelop in closed
Thanking you in advance 
Yors Truly, -
LOCAL M. M. ALUMNAE PLAN
PARTY AT LITTLE THEATER
The Little Theater was almost com
pletely filled by Margaret Morrison 
Alumnae and their friends on Tuesday 
eveuing, November 7, to witness the 
play The Good Hope. The party 
had two purposes; the primary one 
being a reunion for the Pittsburgh 
Alumnae, the secondary being to give 
tiie members an opportunity of seeing 
the work of the Drama Department.
Both purposes were accomplished. 
As for the play, it is said to be the 
best presentation of modern serious 
drama ever given in the theater. Some 
objections were made because of the 
tragic nature of the play, but the opin
ion was unanimous that it was a won
derful exhibition of dramatic ability. 
Later in the year, if the demand is 
great enough, we may be able to In
duce Mr. Wallace to give us a comedy.
Lady (to guard at prison)"Id like 
to see Convict 312 if he's in.The 
Black and Magenta, Otterbein College.
Thousands of Students
,ou> useRemington Portable'
They have come to depend on it as a tried and 
trusted helper that lightens the burden of every 
writing task.
So small it is never in the wayfits in case only 
four inches high. So convenient you can use it 
anywhereeven on your lap.
And it is the most complete of all portable 
typewriterswith Standard. Keyboard 
and many other big machine features.
Remington in qualityand covered 
 by the Remington guarantee. Price, 
complete with case, $60.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER 
COMPANY, INC.
102 SIXTH STREET 
Bessemer Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Sa&gan Ribbons for Remington Portable Typcu7iters 50c each$s a dozen
Rev. Robert L. Ritchie, Presbyte
rian clergyman, who was the pastor 
of Mr, and Mrs. Carnegie at Sklbo 
Castle, was a visitor at the Carnegie 
Institute and the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology last week.
Prof. R. Z. Virgin of the Mining En
gineering Department has been ap
pointed editor of The Coal Trade 
Bulletin. Professor Virgin had been 
technical editor for the past two 
years.
Miss Brown attended the second 
meeting of the deans of women of 
Pennsylvania which was held at Har
risburg November 3 and 4. About 
fifty women were present from the 
universities, colleges and high schools 
of the state. Miss Tlirysa Amos, dean 
of women of the University of Pitts
burgh, was reelected president.
NOTRE DAME HERE 
HOMECOMING DAY
Tickets for Forbes 
Contest on Sale
Field
Alumni Homecoming. Day, Novem
ber 25only ten more days!
Plan to come back.
At the rate the tickets for the Notre 
Dame game are going, there will be 
none left by next Friday.
Isn't that a fairly good indication 
of what the demand will be like for 
the game with our neighbors across 
the I10II0W next year?
But, what's more to the point, isn't 
it a good indication of the power of 
Carnegie Tech as a drawing card ou 
the people of Pittsburgh?
No, were not taking orders for 
tickets for the Pitt-Tech game next 
year, but if you want any kind of tick
et at all for the Notre Dame game on 
November 25, 1922, youd better
hurry.
Reservations must be accompanied 
by check, express or post office money 
order, and should be for the exact 
amount to pay for the tickets ordered, 
minus credit due for athletic coupons 
returned with order. Orders must.be 
accompanied by a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope. Make all checks 
and money orders payable to Frank 
FI. Haaren, treasurer.
Box seats, ?2.50; reserved seats, 
$2.00; general admission, $1.50; stu
dent and alumni athletic books good 
for credit as noted 011 coupon for 
event No. 7.
The Athletic Office will be open on 
Thursday and Friday evenings for the 
sale of tickets.
It will be the last game of the sea
son, and will be followed by a big ban
quet at which Wally Steffen will be 
the honored guest.
Taken all together, it will be Alum
ni Homecoming Day, soBE TI-IERE!
ALUMNI! SCOTCH KILTS FOR 
SIXTY-PIECE BAND ASSURED
One-Third ofPurchase Price Must be 
Raised By Carnegie Alumni
ENTHUSIASM RUNS
HIGH AT ASSEMBLY
Dr. Strong was leader of a round 
table discussion of psychology tests 
at the conference of the National Per
sonnel Association, in session Novem
ber 7, 8 and 9, at the William Penn 
Hotel.
PENN STATE SPECIAL
AWAKES COUNTRYSIDE
(Continued From Page One.) 
made the count of the passengers 
greater after the tickets were taken 
up had many a thrill as the long 
train wended. Its way around the 
famous Horseshoe Curve and through 
the mountains of Pennsylvania. Only 
thoughts of the game coming, occu
pied the minds of every one ou the 
way to Lemont.
The population of that town was 
increased many hundred fold when 
the special unloaded and the Plaid 
of Carnegie Tech lent color to the 
little town, only to disappear as the 
busses carried the crowd onto Stato 
College.
In spite of defeat, spirit ran high 
on the trip back to Pittsburgh and 
the six hours of lidtng had many a 
humorous incident. The tired slept, 
the dryremained dry and the love 
birds cooed in many a seat. The 
state of affairs in the latter reached 
such extremes that a self-appointed 
committee endeavored to award 
prizes to the most proficient in 
Venus' art.
The stop at Altoona brought relief 
to the hungry and the population in 
the immediate vicinity of the sta
tion sold out practically everything 
in the line, of food to the returning 
Ski bos.
Long after the hour of midnight 
the weary travellers pulled into the 
Pennsylvania station, bringing to an 
end the largest foreign invasion of 
football fans in Carnegie Tech his
tory. Each year more people follow 
the Plaid gridders on their trips, 
and each year they build up more 
and more the prestige of the school, 
its students, and, most of all, a 
fast developing Tartan football ma
chine.
TORRENT OF ORATORY
POURS FORTH AS SENIORS 
UNDERGO GRILLING TEST
(Continued From. Pairo One.) 
radio phone will be attached to the 
ear of each and every Little One, and 
when Aunt Dee recites her famous 
tales of Reddy Fox and Willy Wiffenpoof, the Little Students will be 
asked to remember every wise word 
of dear Aunt Dees. Professor Follows 
will afterwards call for a recitation 
on what the children have learned.
Aint We Cute?
And now, lit-tle Men and Wo-men, 
be very good lit-tle boys and gir-ruls 
and Un-cle Tom of the Fac-ul-ty will 
show you a ver-ry good time. Oh ye3 
he wi-11. And please pass your pla-tes 
for an-other help-ing of the Raspber
ries!
Continued From Page One) 
that Carnegie Tech may have had of 
beating the Nittany Lion in his own 
den, and when the fact of last weeks 
game with Allegheny is considered, 
and the aftermath of injuries taken 
into account, the support of the stu
dent body becomes moro and more 
imperative. Both Steffen and Wad
dell were very urgent in asking nil 
men and women of Carnegie Tech who 
can possibly make the trip to State to 
do so, and cited the point that not 
only is such a trip a loyal act in sup
port of the school, but it is also a 
very important part of the students 
course here at school, and should not 
be neglected for this reason.
Before giving the advance dope on 
the State game. Bob Waddell present
ed the cup given to the winner of the 
fall tonnis tournament to James T. 
OConnor, Engineering Freshman, w]io 
graduated from Peabody High last 
June. OConnor won the cup from a 
field of over sixty entrants, including 
some of the best tennis talent to bo 
found at Carnegie.
Another presentation was that of 
the Inter-Fraternity Scholarship cup, 
awarded oach year on the records of 
scholarship for the preceding year. 
This year it was won by the Delta 
Upsllon fraternity. The cup had been 
held by Beta Theta Pi for the last two 
years. Phi Epsilon PI wore runnersup, closely followed by Beta Sigma 
Rho, Iota Sigma Delta, and the Woodlawn Club.
A note of somber humor was lent 
to the Assembly when six pledges of 
Alpha Alpha Nu, honorary journalis
tic fraternity, entered the Music Hall, 
gowned and hooded, and bearing the 
symbol of their craft, a huge wooden 
pen, which was slowly carried to the 
rostrum and there deposited to tiie 
tune of the Dead March, as interpreted 
by Ross Hertz. With many and va
rious salaams the neophytes withdrew, 
leaving the pen as a reminder of their 
presence.
Various announcements were inter
spersed in the program, including that 
of the tickets for the Notre Dame 
game to be played at Forbes Field the 
Saturday before Thanksgiving, and tiie 
report of the committee on funds for 
the kilts, which reported about twelvehundred dollars collected for this pur
pose at the present time.
One of the pleasing parts of the pro
gram, and one that might be empha
sized more in later events of this kind, 
was a fcong and yell practice, led by 
Head Cheer Leader Ross Hertz, and 
the band. This is a side of General 
Assemblies which is too often over
looked in the making up of a program, 
and it is hoped that more attention 
will be paid to this phase of school 
life in Assemblies to be held later in 
the year.
During your undergraduate days 
perhaps, you dreamed that some day 
you would see Carnegie represented 
by a real band equipped in Scotch 
kilts. For some time we have had a 
real band, but only the past month 
has made the dream of the band 
in kilts a reality.
The contract for the equipment of 
sixty members of the band with kilts 
has been let. Delivery will be made 
so that just before the klckoff a week 
from Saturday a sixty-piece Carnegie 
band equipped in kilts will take the 
field.
If you are at that game or If you 
are so far away that home-coming 
day of the football season will not see 
you at the gamein either caseyou 
will share the thrill of every Carnegie 
Tech alumnus or student when the 
Scotch kilts make their appearance.
The thought that should and per
haps will come to your mind at once 
is this: Did I help? The student
body came across strong In the recent 
drive for kilts. Of the necessary 
three thousand dollars the students 
contributed two-thirds. IT IS UP TO 
THE ALUMNI TO RAISE THE RE
MAIN I NO THOUSAND. At least a 
dollar Is expected from every alum
nus and more will be gladly accepted. 
The only object is to raise the thou
sand dollars among the members of 
the alumni body and since every Car
negie Tech alumnus Is to read this 
request there ought to be no difilculty 
encountered in raising the required 
sum. DO YOUR PART. Make the 
dream of the Scotch kilts not only a 
reality, but a success financially as 
far as the alumni are concorned.
Make a check payable to G. L. Til
brook, treasurer, mark It "Kilties, 
and send It in to the alumni ofiloo. 
Then turn out at the Notre Dame 
game and see the Plaid gridders clash 
with Knute Rocknos proteges to the 
tune of Fight for the Glory of Car
negie, played by the sixty-piece 
kiltie band, once a fond dream of 
your early school days; now a reality.
Scotty Henderson, of tho class of 
OS and alumni kiltie representative, 
expresses his views 011 tho drive for 
alumni contributions to the lclltio 
fund in tho following letter to all 
alumni. Show the spirit of Scotty by
heeding the words of one of your own 
number:
We want your help to put It over.
The student body has done its bit 
to make it possible. Will you do 
yours?
It was decided that a real Scotch 
band should have kilties and so we 
got them.
The students luvve come across 
with almost 2,000 of the $1,000 nec
essary and we want at least a dollar 
from every alumnus. More if possi
ble. Any surplus will go to a perman
ent band fund.
The baud has done its bit in rain 
or shine 011 practically every public 
occasion and at every athletic event. 
They are deserving o$3ome publicity. 
This will get it! Think of the movie 
advertising and publicity Carnegie 
Tech will get all over the country 
with her great kiltie band.
"Be a partner and put this over 
big. Send in a check payable to G. 
L. Tilbrook, treasurer, and mark it 
kilties. Then come out and see a 
sixty-piece band in them, at the 
Notre Dame game, Forbes Field, No
vember 25.
Send that check now!
" SCOTTIE HENDERSON, OS, 
"Alumni Kiltie Representative.
PROGRAM NOW OUTLINED
FOR CARNEGIE DAY
(Continued From Pago One.) 
and faculty, the R. O. T. C. in uniform, 
and the student body.
Other numbers on the program are 
as follows: Organ prelude by Mathow 
Froy or tho Department of Music; 
orchostra selections by orchostra from 
Music Department, dirocted by Prof. 
OBrien; selections by Male Glee Club 
lod by Mr. Rlohl; announcement of 
scholarships and other honors award
ed for present year; and a now sot
ting of tho Alma Mater by tho Gloo 
Club and Orchostra.
Many alumni of tho Unlvorslty of 
Toronto are expected to be at tho ex
orcises, and in tho evening Dr. lialcor 
will entertain with a. dinner to Sir 
Falconer and friends.
One half of the world does not 
know where tho other half gota its 
liquor.Tho Technique, Georgia Tech.
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal Reserve System
Capital..........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits.......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P.. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary,- J. F. MaxjwpK., P. O. Box 16, Wellosloy Hills.
BUFFALO'Secretary, W. H. Ilieger, Sizer Forge Company.
CHICAGOActing Secretary, Nelson P. Ilicc, 19 La Salle Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary ZarobSky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens O-AKKK Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Spoalcor, 10006 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, I/. II. Sieglcr, #805'West Biverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Noal, care Michigan Stoel Castings Co.
ERIESecretary, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Stroot,
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dimseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Sltenango St.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A, (!. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 3320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. Do Young, 808 Soeond St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Heacoek Pi lie, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, W. H. Sands, Bank of Commerce Building.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, AV. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company oi! Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTONSecretary, Herbert W. Haller, 110 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
M. M. Clan Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street.
W A T CH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
SHORT COURSE MEN
WILL HOLD SMOKER
(Continued from Page One) 
for the graduating class of 23 and 
at a special meeting ?vfr. Oisen wa3 
eected president and Mr, Lynn, seeretar*' and treasurer, these two wiil 
"ho given entire charge of the affairs 
concerning the f.econd year men and 
particularly the first annual banquet 
which will be held by the graduating 
class in tiie spring.
The co-operation of Mr, Olsen and 
Mr. Lynn with President Strljwc! 
cannot but help to make the Short 
Course Association a real factor on 
the campus and all two year men are 
urged to join and thus help tills or
ganization to be one of the live wires 
of the campus.
Tech Students and Alumni are In
vited to call at the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop to see their large display of 
Fountain Pens: Swan, Parker, Conk
lin, Waterman, Sheaffer, etc.
OMSMEN
TJie Persoiil.'Writing Machine '
tmHtmmtrciitmmmmiitmiiumw:
DANCING
------AT------
The
Rittenhouse
EVERY SATURDAY9 P. M. 
tmmmmmmnmmmmmmmmwm's
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni FederationPresident, S. G. Little, 10; First Vice President, J. F. 
Laboon, 12; second Vice President, II. L. Heilman, '17; Third Vice Pres
ident, Genevieve Cushwa, 12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, '08; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, '09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of GovernorsCollege of Fine ArtsH PI. Heilman, 17; M. M. 
Steen, '08; Frank Haaren, Associate.
College of IndustriesS. G. Little, 10; A. J. Hynd, 22; W. II. Ritts, '12.
College of Engineering.T. F. Laboon, '12; G. L. Tilbrook. 15; M. R. Walton, '09.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegeFlorence Bechtel, '18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, '09; Edna C. Smith, '09.
Representatives at LargeGenevieve Cushwa, '12; S. M, Vincent, '08, 
Officers of Alumni AssociationsCollege of Fine ArtsPresident, Ii. J,. Ho IImon. '17; Secretary, Frank H. Haaren; Associate Treasurer. Bertha Johnson, '14.
Board of GovernorsC. O. Rlogor, III: Dorothea Steininacher, 'ID; 
Frederic McConnell. '17; Charlotte Smith, 18; Sarah Owen, 
Associate.
College of IndustriesPresident, S, G. Little, '1.0; Vice President, G. 
K. Koontz, '17; Second Vice President, K, H. li. Julian, '10; Secretary-Treasurer, A J, Hynd, '22,
Board of GovernorsL. T. Jvolly, Associate L. II. Loo, '09; F, Millc 
'09; J. M. Orr, '15; G. T. Iloddacus, '19; F. A. Crothors, '21. 
College of EnglneeringProsldont, J. F. Laboon, 12; HecreturyTreasuror, G. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of GovernorsF. I. Gaston, '09; F, J. NuttuI, '19; Edward F. 
Hirsch, '20; H. G. Nlchol, '21; H. S. Stockdalo, '15; R. C. Cos
grove, '18; E. E. Duff. Jr., '13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident, Florence I. Bechtel, 
'18; First Vice President, Jane Llnderman Cole. '11; Second Vico 
President, Sue Smith. '17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smitii,
Executive CommitteeFlorence I. Bechtel, '18; Jane Llnderman 
Cole, '11; Sue F. Smith, '17; Edna C. Smith, 09; Elizabeth Sheets 
Gaston. '09; Gail Sellers Fettke. '17; Bernice Kruger, 19; Mary 
Cummings Keaney, '20; Margaret Griffin, '21; Josephine Whitney, '22.
FALL UNDERWEAR 
Wo Have Your Stylo and 8lzc.
C. A. Heimert
3014 FORBES STREET 
Whoro ALL Tho Studonto Go.
J^/S/S/S/S/cl/ei/S/Sni/Qi/ci/ti/S/cS/S/injSJSfS/S/cyci/iilfS/e1 m
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop 1
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS |$
Five Barbers at your service. [|j 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
)Mn3/cIJ3/3/fn/cl/cI/3/3f3/cl/ci/2/S/ai/ci/t3/inJii3J@f3i
Compliments n
of I
Skibo Inn 1
The Flavor Lasts
