Volume 99. Issue 1www.thetartan.org7 September 2004
4:02 pm - cable failed near the 
Carnegie Institute; took out circuit 
at CMU and parts of Squirrel Hill
4:46 pm - Squirrel Hill restored
4:55 - Carnegie Institute comes 
back online
5:15 - CMU back online
5:28 pm - last of power restored 
to affected customers
Evan Sundwick/Production Manager
Pittsburghs Finest
A Pittsburgh police officer carries an infant to safety after a severe car 
accident on the corner of Neville and Fifth late Sunday afternoon. A CMU 
student was involved.
Tartan Recruitment Meeting
Thursday, September 9, at 4:30 pm in Breed Hall (MM 103)
Carnegie Mlions student I ^L^WBBJ|f| ^ fai t f| ^ 
1 nj_f irVlvlrViN
Students pass an electricians vehicle as they exit Doherty Hall, shortly after 
all academic buildings on campus lost power Thursday afternoon.
Sophomores create CMU Students for Kerry
by Kevin Purtell
Junior Stafjwriter
With the end of the Republican National 
Convention, the 2004 election campaign has 
begun in earnest, and students across the 
country are becoming involved. Carnegie 
Mellon too has its share of students who have 
started their own political organizations.
Mike Shaw and Mark Caola, both sopho
mores at Carnegie Mellon, recently founded 
the campus organization called CMU Students 
for Kerry. Caola, a business major, says that 
they began by going to the Allegheny County 
Democratic Headquarters to search for volun
teer opportunities. There, they met other stu
dents from local college campuses that were in 
support of John Kerry. Their interest in help
ing the Kerry campaign grew, and eventually 
they decided to begin their own organization 
at Carnegie Mellon. They founded it three 
weeks ago, and at present, their organization 
consists of 15 members. Thus far, most mem
ber signups have taken place next to the voter 
registration table at the University Center, but 
the group plans to hold some events to gather 
Kerry supporters in the near future.
They are, however, not alone. The upcoming
events are planned through the recently-created Core College Leaders, a website that acts as 
the hub of communications between respec
tive campus organizations. When it has grown 
more, says Pat Millham, a campus coordinator 
from Pennsylvania Victory 2004, it will serve 
as an online tool to coordinate college Kerry 
groups throughout Allegheny County. Core 
College Leaders currently networks five differ
ent Pittsburgh campuses: Duquesne Univer
sity, Chatham College, the University of Pitts
burgh, the Community College of Allegheny 
County, and Carnegie Mellon University.
Millham, who works to advise campus orga
nizations such as CMU Students for Kerry, also 
helps get separate campuses to work together 
and volunteer. For every minute you com
plain about politics, he often tells students, 
you should get involved.
Indeed, according to Caola, the main objec
tive of the organizations working through Core 
College Leaders is to get students involved. To 
do this, they have been canvassing neighbor
hoods and working to increase voter regis
tration in Pennsylvania. According to a poll 
done by the Center for the Study of Elections 
and Democracy at Brigham Young University, 
only 6% of all voters remain undecided. Caola, 
though, believes that CMU Students for Kerry
and Core College Leaders can make a huge 
impact by recruiting members. Pennsylvanias 
status as a swing state means that college stu
dents from out of state can become a large 
pool of potential votes for any candidate.
CMU Students for Kerry and Core College 
Leaders not only work with voter registration 
but are also involved in community service. 
They have worked at soup kitchens, and they 
hope to volunteer more in the future. While 
doing service in Pittsburgh, students in Core 
College Leaders wear John Kerry shirts. Caola 
says that this represents what Kerry will do 
for the country: help out the little guy. Stu
dents from Core College Leaders also volun
teered some time with the Kerry team. At Ker
rys Pittsburgh speech in July, says Millham, 
they helped out by driving Kerrys people from 
the airport as part of the motorcade.
When asked if CMU Students for Kerry has 
any plans for after the election, Caola said that 
it might blend into a different organization, or 
perhaps break up.
To join CMU Students for Kerry, contact Mark 
Caola at mcaola@andrew.cmu.edu. To learn 
about upcoming events, visit the Core College 
Leaders message board at groups.yahoo.com/ 
group/corecollegeleaders.
Hour without powerAlcoholEdu required 
for all first-years
by Brittany McCandless
Junior Stafjwriter
After becoming acquainted 
with each other at Playfair and 
being advised about hasty hook
ups, first-year Carnegie Mellon 
students should be started on the 
path to collegiate success. Yet be
fore they begin studying for mid
terms and finals, CMU first-years 
have another important course to 
pass: AlcoholEdu.
AlcoholEdu is an online course 
designed to educate college firstyears nationwide about alcohol 
and its effects on the mind and 
body. According to its parent 
company, Outside the Classroom, 
the program is intended to avoid 
preaching. Rather, it issues pre
ventative education about alcohol, 
distinguishing between myths and 
facts.
The makers of AlcoholEdu first 
approached Carnegie Mellon four 
years ago with its online program. 
However, Student Health Services 
wasnt interested in the online tu
torial at the time, as they preferred 
a more interactive approach for 
their alcohol education program.
As the company worked out a 
few technical glitches and other 
first-tier universities began imple
menting the program, Student 
Health Services reconsidered the 
program. According to Nancy 
Schmidt, the Health Educator 
for the Carnegie Mellon Student 
Health Services, Carnegie Mellon 
realized that AlcoholEdu was the 
program richest in facts about al
cohol and data about the student 
population and accepted a pack
aged deal from the company. The 
University will pilot the online 
program this fall for first-year stu
dents.
From September 13 to Octo
ber 18, first-years will log onto 
www.alcoholedu.com, sign in, and 
give their Andrew e-mail. The email is used solely for the Carnegie 
Mellon Housefellows to determine 
their students progress in the man
datory program. All information 
given is completely confidential 
and cannot be traced back to the 
student; the University will receive 
only the data and demographics 
for the student body as a whole.
The program is curricular in na
ture and consists of five chapters, 
each having a concept, such as al
cohol poisoning and blood alcohol 
concentration. Prior to starting the 
chapters, students must complete 
a survey regarding their drinking
See ALCOHOL, page A4
Former fraternity now houses select first-years
by Lucas Yiannatji
Staffwriter
The beginning of the school 
year brings a loss and an addi
tion to the fraternity quad this 
fall. Last semester, the fraternity 
Kappa Sigma was the object of a 
University investigation after al
legations of pledge hazing were 
reported in The Tartan. Since 
then, the house has been removed 
from campus. The former frater
nity house has since undergone 
a dramatic transition, becoming 
Forbes House: a residence hall 
for 32 first-years.
The occupants of Forbes House 
have access to all the amenities 
that a former fraternity house 
has to offer, including a televi
sion room with stadium seating, 
an air-conditioned first floor, a 
full kitchen, laundry room, two 
living rooms and what residents 
say they use as a coffee bar. 
The rooms are spacious; one res
idents dorm has a lofted second 
room to it.
The location, in the midst of 
the fraternity quad and right 
across the street from both dorms 
and academic buildings is also 
appealing, according to three 
residents with whom The Tartan 
spoke: Eva Lin, Roberta Burke, 
and Carolyn Carante (but you 
can call me C.C. Everyone calls 
me C.C.).
The Forbes House is intended 
to foster a close, intimate group
environment for first-years, while 
organizing community service 
events and leadership workshops 
for the students. The residents 
closeness and unity is plain to 
see.
Sometime this year were go
ing to have a slumber party, 
said Burke. People like to sleep 
downstairs because theres air 
conditioning. As proof, the girls 
pointed out the blanket of one of 
the male residents sitting on his 
chair in the lounge.
We wanna call [Forbes House] 
Schatz House, after the dining 
hall, added Lin. We love it. We 
go there all the time and eat din
ner together.
This past weekend, the resi
dents went on a shopping trip to 
the mall. Last weekend, they vis
ited the Ronald McDonald House, 
lending a hand organizing the 
pantries and the childrens play 
areas. But perhaps the most strik
ing aspect of the house is the di
versity within it.
Everybody is so different, 
theres no two of us that [are] the 
same. said Carante. I think we 
calculated once that we have sev
enteen different languages in this 
house and thirteen ethnicities.
This is not the first time the 
University has offered a Forbes 
House for first-years. The two 
previous occasions were in 2001, 
in the present Phi Kappa Theta 
house, and in 1999, in what is
See FORBES, page A4
j.i. it uimidii/r i luiu L.Ui j.i
Forbes House, formerly Kappa Sigma fraternity, is home to 32 first-years who 
participate in community activities as well as leadership workshops.
stalls main campus
an extension cord at about 4:20 
pm. Laudenslager said the cause 
of the outage was equipment 
failure at 4:02 pm that caused 
the failure of a circuit near the 
Carnegie Institute.
Campus computer clusters 
were closed and Wean Hall was 
mostly evacuated as a result of 
the outage. Mark Banister, man
ager of chemical services for 
environmental health and safety, 
was in Wean Hall to check the 
integrity of backup power for 
freezers in the buildings and to 
ensure the safe shut down of any 
experiments that may have been 
in progress. The flashlight-toting 
Banister said the generators that 
provided emergency power to the 
building would last for several 
hours and that people were being 
told to go home. He then told 
the students sitting in the hall
way in front of the Habermann 
clusters to vacate the building. 
However, the order seemed to 
have little effect on the introduc
tory computer science students 
who were getting software from 
David Winters, a system admin
istrator for the CS department. 
The blackout affected his ability 
to distribute the software. The 
people who bring laptops I can 
help, but anyone whos planning 
to bring a CPU [desktop] is out of 
luck, said Winters.
Weans clusters were locked 
and secured by Mike Kelleher, 
a 5th year senior who works 
for Computing Services. A sign 
hung on the door declared the 
cancellation of Computing Skills 
Workshop classes for that day.
by Alexander Meseguer
Layout Manager
Last Thursday, the Carnegie 
Mellon community, parts of 
Oakland and Squirrel Hill were 
deprived of electricity for about 
76 minutes from 4:04 pm until 
about 5:20. Shortly after the 
power outage, a crowd of stu
dents and faculty could be seen 
evacuating academic buildings 
including Porter and Baker Halls, 
the University Center, Doherty 
Hall, and Wean Hall. According 
to police officers patrolling the 
Cut in cars, the blackout extend
ed throughout campus and parts 
of Oakland.
Eric Bowlanger, a sophomore 
civil engineering student, who 
was writing a letter in the mailroom in the University Center 
basement at the time, said it took 
about a minute for the emergency 
power to come on.
 People across campus could be 
seen speaking on their cell phones, 
including one student who could 
be heard saying Damn it! Theres 
no power on this entire freakin 
campus! as he rode across The 
Cut on his mini-scooter.
According to John 
Laudenslager, senior manager of 
Media & Governmental Relations 
for Duquesne Light, there are 
two main circuits that provide 
the campus with electricity and 
one of them was down for main
tenance. This was confirmed by 
Joe Stubler, an electrician with 
Facilities Management Services, 
as he ran into Doherty Hall with

---------------------------------------------------

News................Crime & Incident..... Science & Technology Forum...............
Suspicious Person 
; 1 August 2004, 05:30 
West Wing
I
A male attending a conference 
and staying in West Wing awoke 
in his room to find a male intruder 
standing over his wallet. After 
chasing the intruder from the 
area, the complainant noticed 
that the rooms door had toilet 
paper stuffed into its lock. The 
same person may have intruded 
into a suite in Resnik earlier that 
morning.
; Disorderly Conduct 
1 3 August 2004, 23:15 
Delta Gamma residence
A female student reported 
that a pizza deliveryman from 
Wing Zone forced himself into 
the doorway and would not 
remove himself upon request. 
The complainants boyfriend 
physically removed the actor from 
the residence; no further action 
was reported.
Suspicious Vehicle
5 August 2004, 11:01 
Frew Street
A vehicle in front of Porter Hall 
was found to have a sleeping 
occupant. The vehicle, illegally 
parked on Frew Street, was also 
booted. The boot was found to 
be a prop, not attached to the
vehicle.
Suspicious Person
6 August 2004, 23:05 
Margaret Morrison Apartments
A male was found on the steps 
to the courtyard going through a 
garbage bag. A witness described 
the actor as praying. The subject 
was questioned and released 
quickly.
A male hit his head on a pipe on the 
first floor of Mellon Institute and 
 was lightheaded after regaining 
 consciousness. Once oriented and 
stabilized, he was transported to 
UPMC Presbyterian Hospital in 
Oakland.
Compiled by Adam Greenberg
Medical
21 August 2004, 21:07 
University Center
A male had a few teeth knocked 
out while playing basketball in 
the gymnasium. The person was 
conscious, alert, and stable.
Disorderly Conduct 
24 August 2004, 21:29 
East Campus Parking Garage
A group of students was caught 
throwing water balloons from 
the top floor of the East Campus 
Garage into Gesling Stadium.
Burglary
27 August 2004, 10:48 
Shirley Apartments
The complainant reported that 
two actors had gained access to his 
apartment. They told the resident 
that they were from Housing and 
were doing a bed check. Housing 
Services claims they did not order 
any such inspection.
Theft
28 August 2004, 12:58 
New House
A bicycle seat was reported stolen 
from the rack in front of New 
House sometime between 23 and 
27 August. The bicycle had been
Liquor Law/DUl: 8mini
Suspicious Activity: 24wiifmHimnii
Trespassing: 4mi
Theft: 20
tHWHJItHW.
Medical: 29ttHiwmiHitHiiin
Disorderly Conduct: 4mi
Vandalism: 1
I
Noise Complaint: 10
HH1H4
Medical
10 August 2004, 13:18 
Mellon Institute
Statistically Speaking
With Frances pounding the Floridian peninsula and Ivan none too far behind, here is a look at 
some interesting facts about tropical storms and hurricanes.
hurricanes develop during an average tropical storm season. Meteorologists 
predict almost twice as many this year.
27 deaths were recorded due to hurricanes in Florida in the past month.
mile-per-hour winds were recorded when Hurricane Charley, a category four 
145 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale, reached the west coast of Florida three 
weeks ago.
o r\r\r\ deaths (estimated) were caused by the deadliest hurricane in American 
1.4,000 history: the unnamed Galveston, Texas, hurricane of September 1900.
Sophhpmrdollars worth of damage were caused by Hurricane and Tropical Storm 
Frances, as estimated by insurance companies in the region.
dollars worth of damage (adjusted to current dollars) were caused by Hur35BIN ricane Andrew in 1992, the costliest tropical storm in American history.
i, ????
A message from your Student Body President, Erik Michaels-Ober
Michaels-Ober
I hope that you had an enriching sum; mer and that you are enjoying your new 
courses. This column will allow me to 
share with you some of the projects on 
which Student Government is working.
This past June, I visited Carnegie Mel
lon in Qatar (CMU-Q), our newest branch 
campus. I am excited about the opportu
nities this campus will offer and the ways 
that it will be shaped by its first class. While 
I was there, I met some of the students of 
this class and will be working with them to 
establish their own Student Government. I 
am looking forward to this and future col
laboration with our peers in Qatar.
On August 31, after the first-ever day of 
classes at CMU-Q, a videoconference was 
held between these two Carnegie Mellon 
campuses in our newly-opened Posner 
Center. This allowed students on both 
sides to ask each other questions and start 
building partnerships. One idea that came 
out of this discussion was an exchange
program that would allow students from 
CMU-Q to study for a semester in Pitts
burgh, and vice versa. This will serve to 
broaden the diversity on our campus and 
on theirs. I will be working to set up an
other videoconference with CMU-Q in the 
near future.
For those of you who have not yet ex
plored the Posner Center, I encourage you 
to check it out. The building is located 
between the College of Fine Arts and the 
Tepper School of Business, and is open 
from 1 to 4 pm, Monday through Friday. 
It houses the Posner Memorial Collection, 
composed of rare and historic books and 
art, including one of four existing copies of 
the first printing of the United States Bill 
of Rights.
The Center was designed with the 
environment in mind: it seeks to meet 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) standards for sustainable 
development, water savings, energy ef
ficiency, materials selection, and indoor 
environmental quality. In fact, campus 
buildings like New House and the Posner 
Center help make Pittsburgh the city with
the most LEED-certified buildings in the 
nation.
The roof of the Posner Center will soon 
feature the Kraus Campo, a garden and 
gathering place that combines art, horti
culture, and landscape design in an inte
grated work that is symbolic of the multi
disciplinary philosophy of the university. 
The green roof will serve aesthetic, prac
tical, and ecological purposes, retaining 
stormwater that might otherwise run into 
the sewer system and cause it to overflow.
In an ongoing effort to improve student 
space on campus and involve more stu
dents in Student Government, I have cre
ated the Committee on University Center 
Renovations. The Committee has the ap
proval of the Undergraduate Student Sen
ate and Graduate Student Assembly and 
will meet about twice a month to develop 
a plan for renovating student space on the 
third floor of the University Center. It is my 
hope that the plan will be complete by No
vember, so that the changes can be imple
mented by the start of the spring semester. 
I would like the committee to be composed 
largely of students unconnected with Stu
dent Government, to bring in new ideas. 
Please contact me if you are interested in 
serving on this committee.
I will hold office hours every Wednes
day between 3:30 and 4:30 pm in the 
University Center room 318F. If my office 
hours are not convenient for you or if you 
have a pressing issue, we can meet at an 
appointed time instead. Outside the office, 
feel free to approach me whenever you see 
me.
Student Body Vice President Julie Beckenstein will hold her office hours on Mon
days between 2:30 and 4:30 pm. Julie is 
currently working to improve campus 
dining, install more bicycle racks on Port 
Authority buses, lay a crosswalk across 
Margaret Morrison Street, and get more 
identification card readers installed on the 
University Center, so that it is easier for 
students to access the building at night. 
She and I will continue to work together to 
fight for your interests.
Please do not hesitate to send email 
to pres@cmu.edu with your questions or 
comments about Student Government.
Executive
Privilege
Smile, youre on Candid Camera!
Using a PowerBook with an iSight camera, employees of the new Apple Store on Walnut Street in 
Shadyside give customers a sneak preview of the inside of the store moments before its opening 
Saturday morning.
Welcome to the Tartans first 
issue of the year. As Executive 
Officer of The Tartan, I would like 
to use this new column to address 
the campus. This is a chance for 
the leadership of The Tartan to 
communicate with the community 
at large. While The Tartan is a 
student organization independent 
of the University administration, 
we play a significant role in the 
community. It is my belief that 
no other organization on campus 
plays a similar role, and I would 
like to examine the importance of 
a student newspaper.
Every community deserves a 
great newspaper. Newspapers 
serve a unique function that will 
never be replaced by television, 
radio, the Internet, or other media. 
Every week, a newspaper brings 
together disparate and unrelated 
elements of our community and 
puts them on the same page. The 
Tartan is the only place where you 
will find the latest changes in the 
dining plan next to a report on 
cutting-edge research from one 
of our faculty. You are holding a 
compendium of the community as 
you read this, athletes and artists 
side-by-side with political debates 
and local news.
At first it seems that a newspaper 
is a mere recollection of the weeks 
events, a simple mirror that 
reflects what happened. This is an 
incomplete understanding of how 
the newspaper affects community. 
Quite simply, a newspaper 
creates community. Bringing 
together all of these different and 
diverse happenings creates what 
historian Benedict Anderson calls 
simultaneity.
This simultaneity reinforces 
the idea that these otherwise 
independent acts are related 
to each other. This simple act 
is fundamental to creating a 
Carnegie Mellon community. At 
times, CMU can seem to be very 
isolating and alienating, a place 
where students arent exposed to 
much beyond their own personal 
lives. The Tartan needs to serve an 
important role in creating a feeling 
of togetherness, of simultaneity.
Furthermore, a newspaper 
can make students examine their 
college experience like nothing 
else. A well-written opinion piece 
or editorial can raise issues among 
students, faculty, and staff. The 
Tartan enables the community 
to actively engage itself in the 
important issues of our day. 
Becoming actively critical and 
intellectual involved with the 
world around us is another sacred 
duty of a college newspaper.
The Tartan isnt the only place 
where you can get your news. As 
a weekly publication, we wont 
always be the first source on 
breaking news. Furthermore, we 
face competition among student 
organizations. The staff of The 
Tartan welcomes this competition. 
Yet no other medium serves the 
same function of a newspaper. No 
website will ever challenge you 
or make you think in the way a 
newspaper does; no radio show 
will ever spark community debate 
in the way a column will. The 
Tartan has a vital role to play that 
no other group can.
I view it as a sacrosanct 
responsibility for The Tartan to 
play this role. Sadly, The Tartan 
failed this responsibility last year 
and let down the community. 
I joined the organization after 
these troubles, because I feel that 
Carnegie Mellon deserves a great 
newspaper. The Tartan needs to 
hold itself to a higher standard 
than any other organizatiori, 
because no other organization 
can play such a critical role in the 
community.
This column is titled Executive 
Privilege because I consider 
it a privilege to address the 
community. As the Executive 
Officer of The Tartan, I am 
more than just the head of the 
organization. I see myself and the 
rest of The Tartans leadership as 
being responsible to all students, 
faculty, and staff. From President 
Cohon to every first-year, from 
the faculty to the custodial staff: 
We are your newspaper. I cannot 
think of a more honorable or more 
crucial way to serve the university 
that has given me so much. We will 
continue to produce a high-quality 
publication every week, and we 
will continue to connect you, tb 
inform you, to make you think, tp 
create community. Thank you fc(r 
this privilege.
InThisIssue:
 Pittsburgh Parks 
Pillbox, 10
 SLAUGHTER 
Pillbox, 4
 Review: Hero 
Pillbox, 6
 Review: Garden State 
Pillbox, 7
Metal Shop: Ozzfest 2004 
Pillbox, 8
 Comikaze 
Pillbox, 18
Mark Egerman
 SEPTEMBER 7. 2004
Weather
wr w
TDESnm DSDI TTTIRSnTI
?? CD DD72 m 7Dnrm rrru rmn
/X
JTT, r 'I
?tom 
i i i i i
G rimei ncident
esohcma 
tmrCcrCM
 Pillbox..... ; Classifieds Comics   Calendar..
 New University dining
restrictions
News, A4
 Warner hall completion
delayed
News, A4
SDTDRnm??mrn ' r i
 Segway Soccer 
SciTech, A6
 An introduction to The Tartans 
new Ombudsman position 
Forum, A8
 RNC criticism 
Forum, A9

---------------------------------------------------

H&SS Deans List 
Spring 2004
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
congratulate the following students for their outstanding academic 
performances during the Spring 2004 semester.
SeniorsKimberly MasonJustin CinicoloBrian Schmella*Bryan Ferguson*James Stover*Bridget Lewis (SHS)Connie AmorosoMaria Matuscak*Renato Clavijo (SHS)Phillip SchraderNathaniel Filardo (SHS)Michael Szczerban*Oliver LimKenneth ArbuckleMara McAdams*Jacob Collins*Burdell SchwartzStephanie FordWei Tang (SHS)Kristen Livesey (SHS)Lindsey ArroyoMary McAshan (SHS)Rachel CooperWendy ScottTodd FreyLin Tian*Steven Maher*Eliza Bishop*James McBrideJose Correa*Anubhav Sinha*Cheryl GeringGregory Totten*Patrick MalatackGregory Botta*Meredith McConnochieMichael CrolandSarah SmithAaron Goldman (SHS)Joseph Trevithick*William Mangan IIIMayank BubnaAndrew McKeonJamie DavidsonAdam SmolinskyBrian Gray*Nina VishwanathLeslie MarkelDwight BussmanEmilie McLaughlinLauren DevitoCheuk Lam SoNurfarhana Hamdan*Katherine Wallat (SHS)Ashley McMakin (SHS)Darren CanadyRobyn MurphyErika Douglas*Anuj SoniDaniel Hasumi-Dickison* (SHS)1-Ting WangRoderick McMullen (SHS)Julia CarterJulia Myers*Rachel DougnacSinduja Srinivasan (SHS)Karen HelmstetterJessica Wang*Rui Munakata*Suneal Chandran*Vincent Ng*Mary Grace Duncan*Charles Stright*Roman Ivey* (SHS)Christopher WatkinsGaurav Munjal*Chuan-Ting ChangSusanna NgaoDavid Ebersole* (SHS)Won Kyo SuhKristina IzumiJared Wenger (SHS)Aditya Nagarajan*Chiung-Kan Chen*Brian PaoCarolyn ElliottRachel Svinkelstin*Vijay JesraniMargot Wilson (SHS)Wendy Niedelman (SHS)Elissa ChinRachel PapernickEmily Evans*Reena Thomas*Andy JihLauren Winkler*Donald NormanJeannie ChoiBeatriz Pino BetancourtAdam Fang (SHS)Veena Thomas* (SHS)Katelin Jones*Olivia WuRebecca ObleyVictor Chu* (SHS)Aaron RankinRudi Feiler* (SHS)Darren TomeRahul KapurRachel Wu*Samantha OConnor*Ricardo ClarkeSameer RathodAdeem FensterDerek Tong*Maria KimMarie Yetsin*Abraham ParkSuzanne CookKristine RodriguezJennifer FerrisKatherine TylerSeong Ik Kim*Hannah Yi*David ParkRebecca Cornelius*Paul RogersMelinda Finnegan*Maria Veronica Urenda Valdes*Daniella KrautAndrew Young* (SHS)Elizabeth Parker*Jeff Cullers*Alicia Sanderman*Kenneth ForgitCraig Versek (SHS) 'Margaret Kucera*Trina Pfanstiel*Kathleen DavisSarah Sandusky*David FriesAmina Vohra . ^Joseph Kwok (SHS)FreshmenJacob Portnoff*Elizabeth DurfeeJuvyrose Santos*Evan Gelacek*Katherine WaiteIan Kwong*Salima AliJonathan PowersAshley EpiscopoMichael ScottoMichael GelmanAmy WangTiffany LeeAbraham Anderson*Andrea PriceMatthew FaganJames Sell*Michael Graham*Dinah Winnick* (SHS)Sara LewisPeter Baker*Jared Rinehimer (SHS)Katherine Fargo* (SHS)Jonathan ShapiroRussell GrantJeremy Wortman*Stephanie Lin (SHS)Taijiro Bernstein*David Rush* (SHS)Li FengDeepak SharmaScott HeimendingerGita Yitta*Robyn Lindsey (SHS)Ashley BirtGeorge Schaeffer (SHS)Vito FiorePaul ShatlockZachary HiwillerMargaret Young (SHS)Ximeng LiuSage Bowser (SHS)Catherine Scudera* (SHS)Brendan Frederick*Thomas ShinCatherine Hofler (SHS)De Zhang*Jonathan LoMatthew Brooks*Shangbuhm SeokElana FriedlandLindsey Shultz (SHS)Benjamin HoxieYury Zusman*Stephanie Lo*Alisa BrownTrey SissonKarina GarciaTreacy Silverstein (SHS)Ounali Jaffery*Stacey Zyzyck* (SHS)Aileen MaJonathan Browne*Karl SjogrenLela GibsonMeena Soneji*Angeli JainKanishka MaheshwariVarut Bulakul*David Stem*Daniel Gilman*Mary Spotts*Jinee Kim*SophomoresMonisha Mandalaywala (SHS)Daniel CalderoneBrandi Tish*Paul Gittleman* (SHS)John StegglesJeffrey Kohn*Ashley AndersonRichard MasonAlexandru CatigheraClaire Tomesch (SHS)Chris GrantEmily StewartErin Korber (SHS)Elizabeth AndersonCaitlin McLeanTerence ChangGin-San TsaiPaul HaagAndrew Sukenik*Michelle Korenblit (SHS)Douglas Applegate (SHS)Jessie McQuiston (SHS)Celina ChengPatarasiri Virutamavongsa'Kent HainaAnne TalaricoElizabeth Kwak* (SHS)Anusha Balasubramanian*Daniel MendilowHyung Woo Choi (SHS)Eli Visbal (SHS)Debra HalpernYing Tam*Kimberly Lackner*Richard BangsConstance Mennella* (SHS)Marciela De Grace (SHS)Mary Wamock*Amanda Hamlin*Tracy ThomasBrett LeberJulie Beckenstein*Megan Miller*Jamie Edwards*Julia Wei*Shanshan Han*Cory TongKenny LewEric Bernstein* (SHS)Jeremy MosesDaniel FeilerCecilia Westbrook* (SHS)Julia Harrison*Veena VasudevanDaniel Liebermann*Amy BickertonKakia MotoNoam Fischhoff*Leah Worbs* (SHS)James Hickman*Nicole VelezJiajun LimGlen BischoffGabriel Nehrbass (SHS)Gaston FontelaEric WrightMatthew HockenberryMiriam VidaverPin-Tsung LinJacqueline BrookElizabeth Osius*Pierce FrauenheimHye June YoonColin HollowayDana VinsonTheresa LinAndrew Butler* (SHS)Laura PalotieTamara Friedlander (SHS)Joseph Yu (SHS)Jessica HosoiPlato Wai*Adam Lovrovich*Paul BuyanovskyJane ParkBeth Gilden
Alan Hsu*Yanna Weisberg* (SHS)Justin MathewMargaret CartayaNisha Patel (SHS)Steven Goldberg* with High HonorsNeil HuntGregory WelliverElizabeth McNicolIsabella Cederquist* (SHS)Julia PaviaCecelia Gondek (SHS)James Johnson (SHS)Julie WilliamsRachel Messham*Heajung ChaiyBenjamin PelhanZachary Harris*'
Anne Jolis*Zachary WitmanNelissa Milfeld*Sweta ChakrabortyCatherine PiccoliCara Heller (SHS)Marguerite KallmanAlexander Wolfe*Kurt MiningerDaniel ChaprutAllison Pottem*Jonathan Hersh*Lisa Kellner*Christine WooSamantha MondaTathagata ChaudhuryElina Rabinovich*Sandy HoJoo Bong KimNicole Yoskowitz*Eric Monti (SHS)Alexander ChenShilpa Reddy (SHS)Simon Hucko (SHS)Kyle KirbyBrian YoungMeghan Myers*Christina Chern (SHS)Stephanie Reynolds*Mona IyerAnna KisoAnn Yu* (SHS)Millie PatelMeredith Clark* (SHS)Darbi RobertsJanet Jay*Kenton Kline*Salma Zahr*Karen Peiaez*Ryan Coon*Matthew RobinsRandall Jones* (SHS)Alexandra KlingerFernando Zambrana*Joanna Penfold'Taj Corinaldi*Erin Rodgers*Adam KaeliJonathan KobatyCal ZemelmanKimberly Rapp (SHS)William Darrow IIIChrista Romanosky*Steven Kaplan
Eric LauJing ZhangTimothy Renshaw*Amanda Deming (SHS)Valerie Roth*Matthew Karg
Charles LeeJason ZuckerBrenda Reyes*Jaime DerringerTara Sakauye*Nazli Kfoury
Tiffany Lee* (SHS)Kate Riche*Marissa DiazTyson Schrader*Mustafa Khan (SHS)
Naomi Lehr*JuniorsChristopher RileyAnne Digiovanni*Susan ShanMichael Kim*
Michael LeonhardSteven AtchisonJonathan Robinson*Heather Diprima (SHS)Adam Shane*Priscilla Kim* (SHS)Seth LiberGregory Battaglia*Kristen RomonovichEmily Duff*Theresa SobczakTackjin Kim
Abigail LuffStephanie BusiFrances Ruiz*Maxwell EganJimmy SongCourtney Kochuba*
Emily Lyons*Diana CarbonellSunny Sawlani*Kristopher ElderPatricia StallingsOlga Krasnykh* (SHS)
Anne MacAulayAllison CarneyYanikie ScarlettJillian EricksonRebecca Steinberg*Philip Lawson (SHS)
Jaclyn Madden*Michael CheungJustin SchantzStephanie Fan*Nathan Stock (SHS)Woonghee Lee (SHS)
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN
A HOTFI ROOM
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking. 
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http: / / www. shadysideinn. com
^Internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
community extend their congratulations to the 
following students, who were initiated in Spring 
2004 as members of Upsilon of Pennsylvania, 
Carnegie Mellons chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa 
Society.
Matthew W. Anderson 
Zachary Ryan Anderson 
Adam C. Bender 
Andrew Scott Bortz 
Bernard Pin Wern Chin 
Elissa F. Chin 
Rebecca Jeanette Deutsch 
Katherine Mary Fargo 
Oyinkansola O. Fasehun 
Vito V. Fiore 
Megan A. Flocken 
Colleen M. Gault 
Jonathan Neil Giloni 
Dinesh Govindaraju 
Aaron Matthew Hertz 
Warren Andrew Hunt 
Anne Berg Jolis 
Lirona Rachel Katzir 
David Steven Korpi 
David James Lagattuta 
Bethany Jean Lehman 
Dennis John Leventhal 
Ruy J. Ley-Wild 
Jennifer Bingbin Li 
David W. Lin 
Joanna Dorr Lovering 
Jared John Markowitz 
Blayne Michael McKenzie 
Andrew Leland Meyers 
Jason John Molinero
Julie Ann Nusser 
Michael James Olson 
Rory J. Perkins 
Paul Raff 
Greg Reshko 
Anne Dobyns Savarese 
Paul F. Shatlock, Jr. 
Luis E. Tobar 
Cory Ann Tong 
Sarah Katherine Tyler 
Matthew Concia Vazzana 
Miriam Ellen Vidaver 
Jorge Luis Vittes 
Plato Pak To Wai 
Alexander Samuel Weiss 
Heather Eun Whitman 
Jessica Nancy Williams 
Mary Ellen Wiltrout 
Ann JaJa Yu 
Dsu-Wei Antonia Yuen

---------------------------------------------------

SEPTEMBER 7, 2004
University 
to mandate 
new course
ALCOHOL, from page A1
behavior. The course is then tai
lored to each students individual 
drinking habits, focusing on help
ing students make smart personal 
decisions, rather than telling them 
what to think. Its a very non-biased program, said Latika Kirtane, a junior in computer science 
and New House RA. RAs were re
quired to complete the program 
prior to orientation.
Customized for Carnegie Mel
lon students, the program con
tains links to alcohol-support or
ganizations and leadership groups 
on the site. The course takes ap
proximately two and a half hours 
to complete, but students are rec
ommended to take it in multiple 
sittings. AlcoholEdu ends with a 
post-survey and a final exam in 
which students must earn a grade 
of 70 or higher to pass and receive 
credit for the course.
The final piece of the program 
is a follow-up survey, which is sent 
to the students approximately 30 
days after initial completion of the 
course. Carnegie Mellon students 
must complete the follow-up sur
vey by November 22.
We want to see if [the stu
dents] behaviors, attitudes, and 
planning have changed as a result 
of the course when the students 
go out, said Schmidt.
I think CMU does itself a dis
service in thinking that were dif
ferent from other colleges. We 
might have an intellectual level 
that surpasses a lot of schools, but 
we still have curious 18 and 19 
year old kids, said Schmidt. Ac
cording to 2001, 2002, and 2003 
data gathered in a national core 
survey, alcohol consumption at 
Carnegie Mellon is average. Of the 
70-80 percent of students who re
portedly consumed alcohol in the 
past year, 40 percent of the stu
dents engaged in high-risk drink
ing, and the remaining 60 percent 
report consuming small amounts 
when they drink.
What were finding is that stu
dents drink very heavily or little 
to none-theres really no middle 
ground, said Anita Barkin, direc
tor of the Carnegie Mellon Student 
Health Services.
A key to the preventative nature 
of AlcoholEdu is having first-years 
complete it within the first few 
weeks of college. A lot of students 
come in naive to alcohol because 
its never been an issue for them, 
said Barkin. This allows us to 
have a level playing field for all of 
the first-year students.
According to Barkin, taking 
into account the international 
students whose cultures differ 
on perception of alcohol, and 
whose genetic tolerance may be 
different, is especially important 
in educating first-years. Wed 
be fools to assume that everyone 
here has the same basis of knowl
edge, Schmidt said. Educating 
the whole population can change 
the culture.
I think people dont want to 
admit that it will work, but no one 
our age knows everything about 
alcohol, especially the myths, 
said Kirtane. Everyone will take 
at least one new thing from it.
Write for Tartan Sports!
Stop by UC 314 for information
Completion of Warner Hall construction postponed
by Kevin Chang
Copy Staff
Construction work in Warner Hall, originally slated for 
completion in late July, will not end for several more weeks 
due to additional jobs added to the original project.
University FMS worker Edward Hydzik, the Warner Hall 
project manager, said he had no exact date for comple
tion of work, but predicted that everything would be done 
by early November.
The initial project, completing asbestos abatement for 
the entirety of Warner Hall, was to end before classes be
gan, but officials had to prolong the project to bring the 
building up to newer codes and to account for delay in or
dering special materials, such as fire-resistant glass and 
frames.
The new portion of the work involves changing the lay
out of the first floor and adding new entrance vestibules 
on the front and back of the building to replace the old, 
narrow entry vestibules. As part of fire code renovations,
a new emergency exit will be added.
Were replacing existing conference rooms and creat
ing new conference rooms, Hydzik said. The office of ad
mission will be the primary occupant and user of the first 
floor after construction finishes. Everyone else is moved 
back in, said Hydzik.
It started out because there were concerns about as
bestos breaking loose, said University-employed engineer 
Martin Altschul. Last year, the administration decided to 
begin abatement after surface swipe tests returned posi
tive results for asbestos, even though air quality tests indi
cated that the building was clean.
Said Altschul, There wasnt a whole lot done in the 
building that wasnt directly related to asbestos abate
ment. However, the abatement process has many indirect 
effects: workers must destroy and replace entire walls and 
relay carpets that become too dirty to clean. We wiped 
everything out on the floors, so everything had to be re
placed, Hydzik said.
Asbestos abatement and contstruction on all of the 
other floors except for the first has been completed. [The
July schedule] was an earlier schedule, before they de
cided to do more extensive renovations on the first floor, 
said Hydzik.
Cheryl Hays, director of the office of the President, said 
that the continued work was not very disruptive to oc
cupants of the building who were displaced near the end 
of last semester. You cant walk down the steps; you just 
pick up the phone and call. Thats the only difference, 
she said.
The campus master plan calls for the eventual destruc
tion of Warner Hall and creation of a new administra
tive building behind Morewood Gardens. Administration 
decided to move forward with abatement and renova
tion over the summer, rather than putting up the new 
building, because of a lack of funds. The new work will 
not cause the project to run over budget, since sufficient 
funds have been allocated. [Money] was all established 
upfront, Hydzik said.
It was a very, very difficult thing to accomplish, said 
Hydzik. I thank everyone for their patience and coopera
tion.
First-years face new restrictions on meal plan usage
Bradford L. Yankiver/Assistant Photo Editor
First-year students enjoy dinner on the second floor of the University Center. First-years may now only pur
chase certain combinations of food with their meal blocks.
by Amanda J. Flynn
Junior Staffwriter
Every year, first-year students 
and upperclassmen alike are 
given choices on everything from 
dorm selections to classes to din
ing plans. This year proves to be 
no exception, as a new block meal 
plan is being initiated at Carnegie 
Mellon University.
Unlike last years meal plan, 
under which students could pur
chase a fixed dollar amounts 
worth of food with a block, firstyear students are now required to 
purchase block meals, specially 
designated meals consisting of a 
sandwich or salad, a drink, and a 
snack. First-year students are giv
en three major meal plan choic
es: Bronze, Silver, and Gold. The 
Bronze meal plan gives students
the fewest meals biweekly, while 
the Gold meal plan gives them 
the most meals. Within each of 
these plans, students are allowed 
to select how much DineXtra 
money they will have for the twoweek meal sessions. As stipulated 
in the Dining Service Contract, 
block meals allow students to 
purchase value meals on any oncampus dining locations, while
DineXtra dollars enable students 
to purchase meals a la carte.
First-year students are advised 
to consider all the dining options 
and select the plan that best fits 
their dietary habits. However, 
the Dining Service Contract that 
first-years submit will allow them 
to change their meal plans be
tween Monday, September 13 
and Friday, September 24 of this 
semester.
Reviews of the meal block plan 
by students and parents have been 
mixed. The Student Body Dining 
Committee (SBDC) reported that 
many students who completed 
dining comment cards were 
pleased with the meals being of
fered, while other students were 
dissatisfied with the amount of 
structure the block meals create. 
First-year creative writing major 
Theresa Campobasso said of her 
meal plan: At first it seemed like 
a really good idea, but when I 
actually started to buy meals, it 
wasnt very convenient for me. I 
felt like I didnt have very many 
options using the blocks.
Sophomore creative writing 
major Zach Harris agreed, say
ing, I feel like last year there 
were more options. For example, 
it was possible to buy nothing 
but water bottles if you needed 
to do so. It also was possible to 
use more of your meal blocks for
the two weeks, so that students 
werent cheated out of money.
Unlike many students, a lack of 
parental complaints this year has 
persuaded the SBDC that most 
parents are satisfied with the 
meal block system. However, the 
SBDC does anticipate more com
plaints after the meal block plans 
are finalized on September 24.
The SBDC, which meets week
ly, discusses food complaints, 
meal plan feedback, and meal 
plan monitoring. At the most 
recent meeting, several sugges
tions, such as the possibility of 
lowering the number of meal 
blocks offered to students, facili
tating meal plan changes, and an 
online ordering system for meals, 
were discussed at length but no 
plans were finalized.
SBDC Chair Jay Pujara, a mas
ters student in the School of Com
puter Science, noted that There 
are some satisfied people and 
some dissatisfied people and the 
committees goal is to help the 
dissatisfied people achieve satis
faction or at least an appreciation 
of the obstacles faced. He also 
encouraged students to contact 
Dining Services if students have 
any meal block suggestions.
The next meeting of the SBDC 
will be held Thursday at 4:30 pm 
in room 318G of the University 
Center.
Fraternity replaced with 
first-years Forbes House
FORBES, from page A1
now the Sigma Phi Epsilon house. 
Forbes House RA Mark Roboff was 
a resident in the Phi Kap Forbes 
House in 01.
My freshman year here was 
one of the best years of my life, 
said Roboff. When I heard that 
there was going to be [a Forbes 
House] this year, I jumped at the 
opportunity. I just had to be in
volved this year.
According to Roboff, part of the 
reason for the rapport between 
the residents of Forbes House is 
the application process. Inter
ested first-years applied for resi
dence at the house on the basis 
of extracurricular activities and 
personal essays.
The students here are mostly 
self-selected, throughout Univer
sity process. Its a special interest 
house [in that] its for leadership 
and community service. So, many 
of the people who live here were 
very active in their high schools; 
theyre very outgoing, social people who are looking to become ac
tive in college, said Roboff. We 
bonded very quickly.
With three Forbes Houses in 
six years, the question arises as to 
whether the program will become 
permanent in the University. The 
housefellow of Forbes House, 
Rene Camerlengo, was unavail
able for comment. However, Ro
boff, who was president of the 
Student Dormitory Council last 
year, said that there is a desire to 
make Forbes House permanent, 
citing Roselawn Apartments as a 
potential site.
For the time being, the resi
dents of Forbes house will partici
pate in Carnegie Mellons Emerg
ing Leaders program, followed 
by a community service program 
in the spring. According to Ro
boff, it is these shared events that 
unite the residents and ultimately 
makes Forbes House a success.
Everyone who lives here does 
their part in creating the Forbes 
House community, he said. Its 
really built from the ground up.
Carnegie Mellon
nil
September 6 September 7 September 8 September 9 September IQSeptetnber H Septembers 
MOMMY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
iOS
SOCCER
WOMENSSOCCER
MCKS
CROSSCOUNTRY
WOMEN'S
CROSS
COUNTRY
| : m m '
...........mm.......*.....................ioo.j.oiujook*
t
fejwOtJf - I
Co* *5 1m pm I
f ciWg! f \ 1 Wwysts? I II-< AWM / j 1
few*** I p. UrawerSly f 1- I
VOU.CYBAU. f
Lizza McGregor/Art Editor
Attention:
 Juniors
 4th year students in 5 year undergraduate programs
 Seniors who will graduate after 3 years of 
undergraduate study
Are you...
- in the upper 1/4 of your class?
- interested in a career in government or public service?
-a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should consider the
Vollu me 9l.Ios m1wtholawrn glt7loI
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 
1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the United 
States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Trumans high 
regard for public service, his understanding of government, and his desire to 
enhance educational opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship 
competition) seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) who 
have outstanding potential for leadership in public service. Winners receive up 
to $30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for the senior year 
of undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in graduate school [spread over 
two or three years of graduate study]).
Preliminary applications due: Friday. October 15. 2004. Up to 3-4 
students will soon thereafter be selected as University nominees, who 
will develop final applications for submission by late January, 2005.
Additional information: Information and preliminary application packets are 
available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall A57 or our website 
(www.hss.cmu.edu/aac/forms.html). Interested students may also contact the 
Carnegie Mellon Truman Scholarship liaison: Dr. Joseph Devine. Associate 
Dean of H&SS. Baker Hall A57 (jd0x@andrew.cmu.edu or X8-6117), or consult 
the Truman Scholarship Program web page (www.truman.gov).

---------------------------------------------------

Give a friend the gift of
Give one of our gift certificates to someone who really needs to chill,
On-campus seated massage  Convenient location 
Custom-designed gift certificates for any budget
355 Fifth Avenue, Suite 205  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
412.201.1777 Fax: 412.201.1780  E-mail: Backmail@Yahoo.com 
www.backrubs-and-bodyworks.com
Buy your textbooks on eBay
and save up to (DOT 
tiielist p rice.
...... ... -,
nrm r
chance
Prizes provided by:
www.ebay.com/college
Anything!points MilVerij.nwireless
?Savings based 011 a comparison of average sale prices for most popular textbooks on cBay.coin during January 2004, with the list price of those books.
**No purchase necessary. The eBay Prevent Overspending Match and Win Game begins at 12:00 AM PDT 8/10/04 and ends at 11:59 PM PDT 9/30/04. Game isopen to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of Columbia, 18 years of age and older. Void in Puerto Rico and where prohibited. 
$2500 shopping spree to bo awarded as eBay Anything Points. For details and full official rules, go to www.ebay.com/collegerules
 2004 eBay Inc. All rights reserved. eBay and the eBay logo are registered trademarks of eBay Inc. Designated trademarks and brands are die property of their respective owners.
HwmmmmmmiX, ' ;
JOINTHE TARTAN
II#! 
il
: ::
V
ISiili

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
7 September 2004THE TARTANA6
Human/Robot Soccer Team to be shown off during anniversary
A CORAL team member looks on as the 
air equipment to capture and kick the
by Corinne Pascale
Copy Staff
This year, Carnegie Mellons 
Robotics Institute will be cele
brating its 25th Anniversary with 
four days packed full of events, 
ranging from the Robot Hall of 
Fame inductions to a multitude 
of seminars and demonstrations. 
The University itself will be well 
represented by its faculty, under
graduate art show, and research
ers.
The CORAL Research Group 
will be showcasing its modi
fied Segway Robotic Mobility 
Platform (RMP) in a demonstraAlexander Meseguer/Layout Manager 
modified Segway uses its compressed 
ball.
tion soccer game. Two teams, 
each consisting of a robot and 
Segway-riding human, will com
pete.
On one team will be Jeremy 
Searock, while the position of his 
opponent will be open to inex
perienced members of the audi
ence, with Yang Gu serving as 
backup. The use of volunteers 
reinforces the assertion that min
imal training is required to work 
with the robots.
Professor Manuela Veloso 
heads the Segway RMP Robot 
team, which consists of Systems 
Scientist Brett Browning, post
doctoral fellow Paul Rybski, 
masters student Jeremy Searock,
and doctoral student Yang Gu. 
Several other contributors have 
also been important factors in 
the success of the research. The 
project has been in the works 
since August 2003, and this will 
be its first full-game demonstra
tion. The test field of soccer was 
chosen because it is not home 
to frequent life-or-death situa
tions. It is safe ground, despite 
the Segways ability to manage 
difficult terrain and inclement 
weather.
The fully-autonomous robots 
have integrated perception, cog
nition, and are capable of many 
different actions. Deviating from 
the norm, the groups robots are 
independent; instead of receiving 
commands from a human, they 
will function as peers. They will 
be able to collaborate and com
municate with team members to 
be successful in the game.
In the future, Professor Veloso 
hopes to see applications of this 
research in the home: robots 
that can return to the supermar
ket to pick up forgotten items, 
walk a dog, or handle household 
chores. She warns, however, that 
the robots are not infallible, ref
erencing a quotation from the 
movie I, Robot, where Detective 
Spooner (played by Will Smith) 
asks a robot named Sonny, Can 
a robot write a symphony? Can
a robot take a blank canvas and 
turn it into a masterpiece? 
Undeterred, Sonny responds, 
Can you? Professor Veloso 
emphasizes, We are not per
fect ourselves [either]. While 
robots may not always make the 
correct decision, they do what 
they are programmed to do, 
making choices based on their 
flexible algorithms and not on 
a cultural background or mores. 
Fortunately, they can learn, fail, 
and persist.
The game will take place in 
Rangos Hall in the University 
Center on October 12 from 10 
am-4 pm.
For more information:
The Robotics Institutes 25th 
Anniversary
http://www. ri25. org
CORAL Research Group
http://www-2.cs.cmu. 
edu/~ coral/main/
CORAL Research 
RoboSoccer
http://www-2. cs. emu. edu/ 
~ robosoccer/ma in/
Alexander Meseguer/Layout Manager 
The Segway RMP Robot team remotely feeds instructions and updates to the 
wirelessly equipped robots, which use two laptops as its brain.
Doom 3: zombies, hell 
knights, and imps, oh my!
by Alexander Meseguer
' Layout Manager
You can barely see. The throbbing background noise fills your 
head. Suddenly, a screeching, rip: ping noise snaps you to a state of 
hyper-alertness and instant action. 
No, it isnt the latest edition of 
Silent Hill or Resident Evil, but one 
of the most salivated-over games of 
the year: Doom 3.
In contrast to the third-person 
action of those other games, Doom 
3 follows the series hallowed tra
dition of delivering as demonic an 
experience as possible in first-per
son shooter format. The game is a 
retelling of the original story rath
er than any sort of sequel. Once 
again, you are a marine (names 
really arent that important) 
who finds himself one of the few 
who survive a demonic invasion 
of the massive United Aerospace 
Corporations Mars research com
plex. Once again, you must battle 
your way through hordes of mon
sters and save the universe from 
the forces of Hell.
What sets this Doom apart is 
not just the orgasmic new graphics 
engine or the reinstatement of a 
classic assortment of weapons, but 
the in-depth single-player experi
ence. Everything is just right, from 
the voice acting to the environmen
tal mood lighting to the constant 
taunting from the games main 
antagonist. The background story 
is rich and presented in a very 
slick manner. The tale is fed to you 
in bits and pieces through PDAs, 
e-mails, voice record
ings, and vid
eos. It keeps 
you
Evan Sundwick/Production Manager
wanting more and gives you enough 
motivation to get you through the 
next throng of demons. Another 
enjoyable aspect to the single
player experience is the series of 
weapons videos you encounter 
throughout. Their cheery, publicrelations-style messages tell you 
exactly how powerful and lethal 
these instruments of destruction 
can be.
Doom 3 really sucks you into 
the game, with an addictive qual
ity present in all great games. 
Characters tug on your heart
strings, or lack thereof, when you 
need them, but quickly tell you to 
move on without them or else find 
themselves the victims of some 
sort of horrible fate. Non-player 
characters provide much-needed 
security clearances and weapons 
locker codes, and fill in the back
ground story.
One cant help but compare 
Dooms gameplay to the Half-Life 
experience. There are enough sim
ilarities for me to be disappointed 
in the unoriginality of the writers. 
At several points, you are a help
less observer of a semi-mysterious 
company executive who always 
seems to be one step ahead of you.
Doom 3 is not without its flaws. 
The game simply requires too much 
from the hardware. Forget about 
running it with anything below a 
2.0 GHz P4 with a Radeon 8500 
or equivalent GeForce. Even with 
that setup, youll still barely scrape 
along at a playable pace. Also, the 
damage model for enemies and 
their corpses are on the level of the 
original Doom, although theres 
something eerily satisfying in beat
ing a bloated zombies body into 
skeletal oblivion with a flashlight. 
Multiplayer is another black eye 
on an otherwise stellar product. An 
intimate affair, dont expect to troll 
the servers for fast-paced action.
In the end, this is one 
scary-ass shooter 
that will capture 
your attention and 
your scarce gaming 
dollars. For added 
benefit, turn all 
the rooms lights off 
and find a place to be alone 
while playing; youll be soiling your 
Depends before you know it. Use it 
to bide your time until Half-Life 2.1 
give Doom 3 a score of 8 out of 10 
bloody chainsaws.
How Things Work: 
Particle Accelerators
by Peter Battaglino
Guest Columnist
Physics is pretty complicated stuff. So com
plicated, in fact, that-physicists often have to 
resort to violent tactics in order to probe the 
subatomic universe: they smash atoms. Doing 
physics with an atom smasher is a little bit like 
dropping a monitor off the eighth floor stair
well of Wean Hall and trying to figure out how 
it works from the little pieces of glass, wire and 
circuit-board left over. But the atoms go a lot 
faster, there are a lot more pieces at the end, 
and above all, it costs a lot more tax money.
Atom smashers, more accurately known as 
particle accelerators, boost charged particles 
like electrons and positrons or heavy ions and 
their anti-particles to almost the speed of light 
and then heave them into one another. If they 
collide, an explosion of so-called daughter 
particles is produced, many of which decay 
into further daughters, and so on. This explo
sion occurs inside a strong magnetic field, 
which causes all of the charged particles pro
duced to bend in circular arcs,the curvature of 
which can be used to deduce which particle is 
what. This typically happens on the order of a 
billion times each second.
What happens with all those data? Well, 
they typically get written to giant data storage 
tapes and collect dust until someone finds a 
reason to look at them  which usually isnt 
that long, as any run of data-taking is always 
driven by the desire to learn something new 
about a specific set of physical phenomena. For 
instance, the fact that protons and neutrons 
are actually made out of quarks was discovered 
in 1968 at the Stanford Linear Accelerator by 
smashing protons into electrons and deduc
ing that the protons arent just point particles, 
but have to have an additional substructure of 
three quarks, specifically two up quarks and 
one down quark. Later, as theory and experi
ment developed, other quarks such as charm, 
strange and bottom (sometimes called 
beauty) were discovered. Finally in 1995 
physicists at Fermilab who were colliding pro
tons into anti-matter protons found evidence 
of the heaviest quark, the top quark. This
discovery put the last piece into a quark-puzzle 
that makes up part of the Standard Model of 
particle physics, which is an attempt to unify 
the electromagnetic, weak nuclear, and strong 
nuclear forces into one grand whole.
So how do you accelerate an electron to near 
the speed of light? You use the same thing that 
turns on your vacuum cleaner: an oscillating 
electric field. In the case of a modern accel
erator like the Tevatron outside of Chicago, 
the electric field lives in a series of super
conducting radio frequency cavities, or SRF 
cavities. SRF cavities are often ellipsoidal (this 
shape helps reduce the amount of damage due 
to resonances that can zap the walls of the 
cavity and render it unusable), and made of 
some super-conducting metal such as niobium 
which is cooled by liquid helium to become a 
super-conductor. The electric fields are actu
ally generated outside of the cavities, and then 
directed into them via metal wave-guides. The 
phase and frequency of the oscillating electric 
field are tuned such that when an electron 
passes through the cavity, it experiences maxi
mum acceleration the whole time it is in the 
cavity. While the electron is making its transi
tion into the next cavity, the field flips back 
to its initial configuration in order to start the 
process all over again.
Not only do you have to accelerate your par
ticles before you get to smash them, you also 
have to keep them in efficient little bunches 
traveling at the right speed and in the right 
direction. To do this we space our SRF cavities 
out in a line in the case of a linear accelerator, 
or a circle in the case of a circular accelera
tor along with a series of dipole, quadrupole, 
and sextupole magnets that bend, focus, and 
change the chromaticity of our beam, respec
tively. This is exceptionally difficult to do pre
cisely and accurately due to the fact that when 
you try to bunch any collection of all positively 
or all negatively charged particles together 
against their will, they will repel one-another 
as a consequence of their own intrinsic electric 
fields
Peter Battaglino (pbb@J is a senior majoring in 
Physics and ECE. He spent his summer working 
at Fermilab smashing things  including atoms.
SciTechBriefs
New method for 
discovering metals
Carnegie Mellon Physicist 
Michael Widom has developed 
a new method for discovering 
amorphous metals. Widoms com
putational approach has generat
ed recipes for over 1700 of these 
metals, many of which have never 
been studied before. Amorphous 
metals are often called metal
lic glass and display significant 
strength, resistence to corrosion, 
and elasticity. This makes them 
ideal for tennis rackets and ship 
hulls, among other uses. Widoms 
research will expand the study 
of these materials and will hope
fully lead to new innovationsy as 
well as further research into other 
alloys.
Source: Carnegie Mellon Media 
Relations
Apple opens store 
in Shadyside
Youve probably wondered why 
so many students on campus are 
wearing shirts with the Apple 
logo next to the word Shadyside. 
Odds are, they camped out over
night to await the opening of the 
newest Apple Store, located on 
Walnut Street in Shadyside. This 
store continues Apples trend of 
opening small stores that show
case their products. Shoppers can 
play with iPods, iBooks, iMacs, 
and other Apple products, while 
comparing colors, shapes, and 
sizes. While the Apple store will 
never have the volume of sales of 
larger big-box stores like Best Buy 
or Wal-Mart, these smaller stores 
serve to enhance their reputation 
as an alternative computing com
pany. Before you get your hopes 
up, however, the new iMac wont 
appear until later in the month.
Source: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Stress costs nation 
$300 billion a year
A new study examines the fact 
that American workers suffer sig
nificantly from being overstressed. 
Many workers feel that they are 
more stressed than ever before, 
as new technologies such as cell 
phones and laptops cause workers 
to feel they never get a break from 
their jobs. This situation is exac
erbated by uncertainty over job 
security in a difficult job market. 
Increased stress leads to a num
ber of health problems, including 
heart attacks, diabetes, and other 
problems. While researchers have 
known of the health problems 
caused by stress, this study is the 
first to demonstrate how stress in 
the workplace affects both work
ers health and the bottom line of 
American companies. The study 
found that stress-related issues 
cost the nation over $300 bil
lion in healthcare costs, missed 
work, and other sources of lost 
revenue.
Source: The New York Times
Studying the 
effects of gaming
Researchers at the University 
of Hull are looking into how video 
game playing affects the body 
and brains of gamers. It is hoped 
that this research, which is partly 
funded by Microsoft, will be used 
to determine which games will 
be successful before they hit the 
market. The researchers check 
hormone levels, alertness, cogni
tive function, and heart rate in 
order to create a mood profile. 
The researchers are finding that 
video games often have the same 
affect on players as a runners 
high. In fact, LAN parties are not 
dissimilar from marathon run
ning; only top athletes can com
pete in either.
Source: BBC
Compiled by 
Mark Egerman

---------------------------------------------------

Deutsche Bank
It isnt always clear to people at first that they're right 
for the D. E. Shaw group. Like the poetry M.F.A. we 
hired to head an automated block trading unit. Or 
the woman who designs solar-powered race cars; 
we hired her to help launch a new venture in compu
tational chemistry. They didn't think of themselves as 
"financial types, and neither did we. We thought of 
them as people with extraordinary talent.
The D. E. Shaw group is an investment and technol
ogy development firm. Since 1988 we've grown into a 
number of closely related entities with approximately 
US $8 billion in aggregate capital by hiring smart 
people from a wide range of backgrounds and letting 
them implementand managewhat they invent.
A robotics guru. A nationally ranked blackjack 
player. An operatic mezzo-soprano. And a lot of 
people who are just exceptionally strong in CS,
EE, math, and finance.
The firm currently has openings in quantitative 
analysis, software development, information 
technology, computer architecture, business 
development, computational chemistry, accounting, 
finance, and trading. We're looking for creative but 
pragmatic people: articulate, curious, and driven. 
Our working environment is intense but surprisingly 
casual. We provide unusual opportunities for 
growth. And we compensate extraordinary people 
extraordinarily well.
The D. E. Shaw group will attend the Technical 
Opportunities Conference on Tuesday, 
September 21 in the Carnegie Mellon University 
Center Gym from 10:00 am - 4:00 pm. 
On-campus interviews will take place 
September 22. To apply for an interview, log 
on to http://www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/ 
career/tartanTRAK/login.html. If this isn't pos
sible, please send a resume and cover letter 
stating your CPA and standardized test scores, 
broken down by section where applicable, to 
Jobs@deshaw.com. All applications must be 
received by September 7.
Members of the D. E. Shaw group do not discriminate in employment matters on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, military sendee eligibility, veteran status, sexual orientation, marital status, 
disability, or any other protected class.
jobs@deshaw.comDE Shaw & Co
Yes, you
ASSET MANAGEMENT
GLOBAL EQUITIES
I CONTROLLING & FINANCE I GLOBAL BANKING DIVISION/GLOBAL TRANSACTION BANKING 
GLOBAL MARKETS I HUMAN RESOURCES I OPERATIONS I RISK MANAGEMENT I
I GLOBAL CORPORATE FINANCE 
TECHNOLOGY I TREASURY
2004 Deutsche Bank AGThis advertsseVnent has been approved and/o< communicated by Deutsche Bank
Hats off to you.
At Deutsche Bank we offer in-depth world class 
training and early opportunities to shine in a 
dynamic and diverse environment. To . learn more 
please visit our upcoming event:
ion to Perform.
Technology Presentation
Date: Monday, September 13, 2004
Time: 7:00pm - 9:00pm
Venue: University Center - Rangos II
www.db.com/careers

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
7 September 2004THE TARTANPage A8
Fraternities take steps in 
right direction for Rush
Fall Rush is a hectic time for fraterni
ties, as they try their hardest to get the 
perfect pledge class. Beginning on the 
first day of school, Rush can be a confus
ing time for first-years, many of whom 
will make a decision that will affect the 
rest of their college career. Placing Rush 
at the beginning of the semester adds 
to the craziness of an otherwise intense 
part of the year.
In reaction to this situation, the 
Interfraternity Council (IFC) created and 
now maintains a set of Rush policies to 
guide all chapters. These rules require 
that all Rush events be alcohol-free, 
require that no event may be held at the 
same time as an orientation event, and 
provide a timeframe for the entire Rush 
period. These rules serve two purposes: 
They protect the fraternities from each 
other, and they protect the first-years.
The rules benefit the fraternities 
because they encourage fair competi
tion. Without these rules, Rush would be 
solely a race to the bottom where each 
house would try to outdo the others 
without limit. Furthermore, these rules 
are in the first-years best interests as 
they provide a degree of protection in an 
environment that too often can be disas
trously unsafe.
Historically, these rules have been dif
ficult to enforce. While there is incentive 
for each house to agree to these rules in 
principle, once Rush begins its under
standable that each house will bend the 
rules as much as it can. This year, the IFC 
has taken steps towards greater enforce
ment of the rules. Not only are there 
significant financial penalties for each 
infraction, but the new IFC Rush chair 
has made it clear that he plans on being
stricter than before. -
The IFC should be commended for tak
ing new steps to improve Rush, but there 
is a counter-narrative that sours this 
years Rush. The Kappa Sigma associa
tion has decided that it no longer needs 
to follow the IFC rules or procedures and 
instead has chosen to make up its own.
Following hazing incidents last year, 
Kappa Sigma had its charter placed in 
trusteeship by their national chapter. As 
such, they are no longer Kappa Sigma 
fraternity, but Kappa Sigma association, 
although you wouldnt know it by their 
recruitment material. Kappa Sigma is 
referring to its recruitment as Rush; it 
is continuing to display material from 
when it was a fraternity; its brothers are 
continuing to wear their Kappa Sigma 
fraternity letters.
Kappa Sigmas actions are disappoint
ing. The organization clearly has some
thing to offer the community, but they 
are going about it all wrong. Instead of 
being belligerent and defiant towards 
the rest of the Greek community, Kappa 
Sigma should try to reintegrate itself. 
Instead of trying to confuse the firstyears about their fraternity status, they 
should be open and honest. Kappa 
Sigmas posters (which do not conform 
to Rush policy) have the motto Rising 
From the Ashes. Sadly, the organization 
does not seem to realize that in order to 
rise again, they will need to change their 
ways and become an organization that 
others wish to join. Belligerence and dis
honesty are not the way towards a bright 
future at CMU. The other fraternities are 
doing the right thing and moving in the 
right direction: Kappa Sigma should join 
them.
CMU students: get involved 
with the world around you
Carnegie Mellon students are known 
for being insular. Those of you who are 
new here may discover that the stories of 
people who live on campus, go to school 
on campus, and dont go off-campus for 
weeks at a time arent just stories. Too 
many students come to CMU with the 
belief that the keys to a full life here 
and working hard at classes to get As 
and finding a good job at the end of 
four (or five) years. They believe the 
time before entering the workforce is 
the final chance to do things that make 
a difference in the world. It is essential 
to realize, though, that there are other 
important parts of a full college educa
tion besides just studying.
Our upcoming presidential election is 
one such example. No matter what their 
political leanings, people need to get 
out, vote, and make their voices heard. 
This is doubly true for any Pennsylvania 
natives: It is still a swing state and we 
could be the next Florida. There is no 
reason to have a repeat of such a situ
ation. Go do voter registration drives 
around the city; hand out campaign lit
erature door-to-door. An uncast vote is a 
vote for the opposition.
It is also important not to simply focus 
on what is happening close to home. In a 
culture that has been become known for 
celebrating positive self-images, deserved 
or not, more and more people fall victim 
each year to depression. It is important 
to keep life in perspective. Yes, dining 
might disappoint again this year and 
classes are difficult, dull, and required, 
but life here at CMU beats fearing that 
the Janjaweed could come and kill every
one you have ever known. Hiding from 
the truth does not help anyone, and the 
problems of the world will not disappear 
through willful ignorance. We need to 
take action whether it is something like 
sending aid to those less fortunate or just 
writing to your Congressional represen
tatives to let them know that someone 
cares what is going on out there.
And even with all these things that are 
matters of life and death, there is also 
the little stuff. Few people can work here 
full-bore and then go straight to saving 
the world. Relaxing makes a person that 
much more effective in everything else, 
and its impossible to fully relax in the 
Wean clusters or an eight-by-twelve foot 
dorm room. Pittsburgh may not be the 
same as New York or California; on the 
bright side, its cheaper, and there are 
no parents to give orders or set curfews. 
Freedom has a sweet flavor, and college 
gives you the opportunity to taste it. Try 
something new. Go play in the snow; 
there should be enough of it when winter 
comes. Eat out at a different restaurant 
in Oakland or Shadyside. Go to a movie 
somewhere other than McConomy 
Auditorium or the Waterfront. Those 
who complain that theres nothing to 
do in Pittsburgh have not looked hard 
enough.
It comes down to this: Get off-campus. 
Expand your horizons and expand your 
mind. When people talk about college 
being a learning experience, they are 
not just talking about classes. They are 
talking about life, so be proactive and 
get one.
THE
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since igo6
MARKEGERMAN 
Executive Officer
EDITORIAL BOARD
ADAM GREENBERG 
Editor-in-Chief*
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Managing Editor 
JIM PULS, Advertising Manager 
ELI POUSSON, Comics Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Mgr.
JAMES AUWAERTER, Forum Editor 
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, News Editor 
J.T. TROLLMAN, Photo Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
MICHELLE M. BOVA, Pillbox Editor 
UZZA McGREGOR, Art Editor 
ANNALISA SCHAEFER, Dossier Literary Ed. 
NICK POZEK, Dossier Design Editor 
SAAGAR PATEL, Online Editor 
KRISTEN HWANG, Business Manager 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Production Manager 
ARTHUR ODWYER, Copy Manager 
ALEXANDER MESEGUER, Layout Manager
MARGARET CARTAYA, Personnel Mgr. 
RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager 
KRISTINA WILTSEE, Ombudsman*
ERICA NRNBERG, Asst. Pillbox Editor 
BRADFORD L. YANKIVER, Asst. Photo Editor 
KANISHKA MAHESHWARI, Asst. Bus. Mgr.
WENYING WU, Asst. Layout Mgr.
loSplsrSuFRATERNITYASSOCI
Bridget Lewis/Art Staff
Introducing the Ombudsman position
UupMCprs dphCMcc
Over the past several years, portions 
of the community have begun to feel 
that the main source of printed cam
pus news was no longer representing 
the voice of all the students on cam
pus. The events that occurred this past 
spring put enough energy into the anger 
and resentment that the community 
was feeling to encourage The Tartan to 
restructure itself and listen to the rec
ommendations that the community put 
forth. The response from the community 
as a whole led to the necessity of creat
ing a number of new positions to divide 
up the duties of the main editors. One of 
those duties vtfas the job of re-establishing the connection to the University and 
to again reach out to all aspects of the 
community to represent all the student 
bodys interests, views, and opinions. 
Thus emerged the first ever student 
Ombudsman for The Tartan.
Historically, the ombudsman, a word 
of Scandinavian origin, was first found 
in Sweden in the early 19th century 
when the government appointed one to 
handle the peoples complaints about 
the government. Ombudsmen are cur
rently employed by a multitude of gov
ernments, corporations, newspapers 
and universities. A recent example is 
The New York Times, which appointed an 
ombudsman to try to improve the integ
rity of the paper after the Jayson Blair
scandal put into question the papers 
longstanding credibility.
At The Tartan the main role of this 
position is to serve as the readers rep
resentative, who will listen to any griev
ances or complaints that the commu
nity has on any issues relating to what 
has been published or what has not 
been published; in other words, to act 
as a conduit for the communitys feel
ings and direct them to the appropriate 
places within the organization of The 
Tartan. This was a role that previously 
bundled into the Editor-in-Chiefs long 
list of duties. The emergence of this 
position and others will allow the edi
tors to concentrate more time on the 
editing process, while the ombudsman 
will deal with the important issues that 
arise in peoples complaints.
When I learned about the develop
ment of the new position, I decided 
that this was a position that would be 
an interesting and rewarding challenge. 
Ever since my arrival to this campus 
three years ago I have been enthralled 
with all of the opportunities and 
resources available to the students that 
attend Carnegie Mellon. I have strived 
to be involved in many organizations 
that would give me a broad overview of 
the university community and also con
tribute to bettering that community.
I want to hear more students opin
ions; I desire to see change, and to also 
gain a perspective on the communitys 
feelings on different issues, which is
why last spring I ran a campaign for 
student body .president. While I did 
not win the election, I discovered that 
there were many other opportunities 
where I could make a similar impact. 
The position of Ombudsman was one 
such opportunity.
As the Ombudsman I will not make 
contributions to content, nor will I have 
a vote on the editorial board  this will 
allow me to work mainly independently 
of the inner workings of the paper to 
better represent the students without 
bias. However, it is up to you, the read
er, to allow me to make that impact. I 
need you to be proactive in channeling 
any resentment or feelings of unfairness 
about what is published in The Tartan to 
the place where something can be done 
about it.
I have never before worked for The 
Tartan in any capacity, but I want to see 
a well-respected student-run newspaper 
at this university that accurately and 
fairly reports the news of this and if I 
can help make that happen, then I will 
willingly do so.
The Tartan invites you to contact its inde
pendent Ombudsman, Kristina Wiltsee 
(kwiltsee@ or ombudsman@thetartan. 
org), to comment on an issue, make sug
gestions, or inform its editors of errors on 
its pages. She will act as your, the readers, 
representative to get the student voice into 
print and to resolve discrepancies between 
our publication and its stated purpose.
Darfur: more complicated than it seems
Mark Egerman
There has been increased interest 
among Americans in recent months in 
the ethnic conflict in the Darfur region 
of Sudan. Following a visit by Colin 
Powell, millions of Americans who had 
little previous knowledge of Sudan 
now recognize the words Janjaweed 
and Khartoum. Yet there continues to 
be significant misunderstanding of the 
nature of the conflict, the U.S. role in 
the conflict so far, and most impor
tantly, what the correct course of action 
for the U.S. should be.
Firstly, what is occurring is geno
cide. Over a million people have been 
forced from their homes, many herded 
into refugee camps where they face 
severe malnutrition. Tens of thousands 
have been killed. Even with this, the 
Bush Administration will not refer to 
it as genocide. In June, the Holocaust 
Museum in Washington, D.C.,. closed 
its main exhibitions to draw attention 
to Darfur, claiming, The obligation to 
prevent genocide is a legal one and a 
moral one. Too often in the past, as this 
museum starkly illustrates, warnings 
have been received and ignored, and 
the result has been death and suffering 
on a massive scale.
Secondly, this is a very complicated 
genocide, more so than the media are 
portraying it. This is not a one-sided 
conflict where a rampaging Janjaweed 
is running rampant over a docile popu
lation. Instead, there are at least two 
forces, the Janjaweed and the Sudanese 
Liberation Army (SLA), fighting in a sit
uation that is reminiscent of many other 
conflicts across the world. A state-spon
sored militia (the Janjaweed) engages 
a rebel group (the SLA, as well as the 
Justice and Equality Movement) with
the rural peasant population caught in 
the crossfire. The people are the true 
losers in this conflict as is often the 
case. Yet the media continue to use the 
term ethnic cleansing to describe the 
situation. While ethnicity may be one 
of many focal points that the armies are 
fighting over, it is hardly the only moti
vation for the conflict. While genocide 
is occurring, it is occurring because of 
the actions of both the militia and the 
rebels.
Thirdly, the U.S. has played a role in 
Darfur in the build-up to the genocide. 
Democratic candidate John Kerry is 
criticizing the Bush administration for 
failing to take action, but he is ignoring 
the fact that the U.S. has been involved 
for the past few years, even dating back 
to the Clinton administration. The U.S. 
had supported rebel groups in Sudan 
for years, attempting to undermine the 
Khartoum government with hopes of 
gaining access to Sudans supplies of 
oil. It is hard to untangle the web of 
support, but it is known that Madeleine 
Albright met with John Garang, 
the head of the Sudanese Peoples 
Liberation Army, who funneled sup
port to the SLA. Regardless, we need to 
recognize that the U.S. has known for 
years about this situation, has kept a 
close eye on it, and has a vested interest 
in the outcome.
Fourthly, it is a mistake to encourage 
militia groups to avoid local negotia
tions . A peace treaty for southern Sudan 
was signed in April, and the atrocities 
there are abating. Meanwhile, ongoing 
talks in Darfur offer the same hope for 
that conflict. The humanitarian crisis 
needs immediate attention, and there 
are skirmishes and banditry on both 
sides. Yet if the U.S., NATO, or the UN 
sends troops to aid the rebels now, it 
will send the worst message possible: 
that local mediation to conflicts will be 
ignored if world powers dont like the 
terms. Quite simply, it will encourage 
rebel troops to avoid peace talks in the
hope of getting a better deal with out
side intervention.
The public doesnt hear about how 
the Sudan government tried and con
victed six Janjaweed bandits and serf-1 
tenced them to gruesome punishments. 
It doesnt hear of the crimes of the rebel 
groups fighting the Janjaweed. If the 
U.S. gets involved and sides with the 
SLA, it risks losing the support of the 
people of Darfur, the true victims of 
these genocides. All of Sudan might 
oppose Western intervention based on 
a long history of being oppressed by the 
West, from General Charles Chinese , 
Gordon to the bombing of the El Shifa 
pharmaceutical factory. Following the-- 
war in Iraq, sending troops to Darfur 
might seem like an attempt to over
throw another sovereign government 
with significant oil reserves.
The American people should not 
allow the rhetoric of altruism to draw 
them into an unpopular and unneces
sary war. Instead of siding with either 
of the combatants in a conflict with
out good guys, the U.S. should side 
with the people of Darfur. It should 
provide humanitarian aid to people 
who are starving to death in refugee 
camps: There is a moral obligation to 
support those threatened by genocide. 
Furthermore, the U.S. should support 
the African Unions decision to supply 
troops to maintain the peace between 
the Janjaweed and the rebel groups. 
Instead of having Western powers get 
involved in an African conflict, we 
should encourage the African Union 
to mediate the situation. It has already 
taken steps in this direction. Finally, if 
the U.S. has been supporting the rebel 
groups, it should immediately termi
nate this policy.
Mark Egerman (mde@j is a fifth-year 
scholar studying whatever he feels like. 
He welcomes all responsible replies as 
long as they begin Dear Mr. Executive 
Officer...
* indicates acting position

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANAg
Conventional wisdom: George Bush, all hat and no cattle
Jonathan Mendelson
With his speech on Thursday, 
President Bush had an opportuni
ty to admit his mistakes in the last 
four years and promise to correct 
them and move our country for
ward. He could have admitted 
that his failed economic policies 
have cost millions of jobs and cre
ated record deficits, that his edu
cation bill has put new burdens 
on schools without actually giv
ing them money to fund improve
ment, and that his misguided for
eign policies have alienated our 
allies and created more terrorists 
than have been destroyed, leav
ing our nation less secure. George 
Bush could have done this, but 
he didnt. He proceeded with the 
same determined stubbornness 
and blind ideology that led him 
to attack a country that posed 
no threat to us and that led him 
to pass gigantic tax cuts for the 
rich and massive entitlements 
for drug companies even in the 
face of potentially crippling defi
cits. He also proceeded to ignore 
the facts of how his policies have 
greatly harmed our country.
On the economy, George 
Bush said: We have seen a 
shaken economy rise to its feet. 
Unfortunately, this is not true. 
New economic data shows that 
in the past month, we havent 
even created enough jobs to keep 
up with the rising size of the 
American workforce, and that 
after three years with George 
Bush as President, we have 1.6 
million fewer jobs than we start
ed with. Instead of creating jobs, 
George Bush gave the richest one 
percent of Americans an aver
age tax cut of $78,460, creat
ing enormous and unsustainable 
budget deficits that will force 
sharp domestic spending cuts or 
tax increases in the near future. 
Instead of dealing with health
care costs that are spiraling out 
of control, George Bush has made 
it harder for workers to pay these 
costs, decreasing overtime pay 
requirements and job training 
programs.
On Iraq, Bush said that we 
knew Saddam Husseins record 
of aggression and support for ter
ror. No one can deny that Saddam 
was an evil man, but we trounced 
him in the Persian Gulf War and 
he had become even weaker since 
then. Saddam had been effec
tively contained, and the sanc
tions were working: He posed 
no threat to us, and he hadnt 
sponsored terrorism against us in 
over a decade. Despite this, and 
despite the lack of evidence that 
he had weapons of mass destruc
tion, Bush distorted intelligence, 
seized upon forged documents 
to claim that Iraq was trying to 
acquire uranium from Niger, 
falsely connected Saddam with
the September 11 attacks, and 
rushed to a war based on lies 
and distortions without a plan 
to win the peace. Furthermore, 
a senior CIA analyst who headed 
the CIAs bin Laden unit for three 
years wrote that the war was a 
tremendous gift to al Qaeda 
and a rriajor setback in our war 
on terror.
National security is another 
area where George Bushs poli
cies have failed to match his 
rhetoric. After originally oppos
ing a Department of Homeland 
Security, opposing the commis
sion investigating the September
11 attacks, and withholding evi
dence from it, Bush has under
funded police and firefighters,
our first responders in the case 
of another attack. A task force 
headed by former Republican 
Senator Warren Rudman report
ed that Bushs budgets underfund 
emergency responders by $98.4 
billion over the next five years. 
He also underfunds port security: 
Only five percent of the 25,000 
shipping containers entering the 
U.S. every day are inspected, and 
Bush cut port security grants by 
63 percent from last year.
In a recent speech, George 
Bush said that our enemies are 
innovative and resourceful, and 
so are we. They never stop think
ing about new ways to harm our 
country and our people, and nei
ther do we. While he might not
have meant to say this, it contains 
a frightening amount of truth. 
The Bush administration has pre
sided over the first loss of jobs 
in over 70 years, an economic 
squeeze on the middle class, a 
war that has undermined the 
real threats we face, and the vast 
underfunding of homeland secu
rity. Unfortunately, in his speech 
at the Republican National 
Convention, George Bush made 
clear his determination to stay 
the course with his disastrous 
policies.
Jonathan Mendelson (jmendels@J is a junior studying math 
and political science. He welcomes 
all responsible replies.
vyr
tjV**\ VX 
N
(
Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
Dining cooks up another disappointment for first-years
Evan Sundwick
Starting this semester, 
Carnegie Mellon Dining Services 
has made some rather substantial 
changes to how the meal plans, 
especially first-year plans, work. 
When rumors of the new plans 
first surfaced early last spring, 
reaction from the student body 
was not exactly positive. Talk of 
Schatz blocks, which would 
force first-year students to use 
at least one of their meal blocks 
each week for dinner at Schatz 
Dining Room in the University 
Center, filtered from group to 
group as the rumors spread.
As it turns out, the rumors were 
true: Incoming first-years were 
greeted with a plan that was a 
huge step in the wrong direction 
by Dining Services. All first-year 
students on the meal plan are 
required to eat dinner at Schatz 
once a week, and meal blocks no 
longer have a cash value associ
ated with them.
Unsurprisingly, this change in 
organization has caused some
changes to the way university 
food vendors do business. Each 
vendor now offers about four 
meal choices that can only be 
bought with meal blocks. These 
meals contain what Dining 
Services considers the ingredi
ents of a balanced meal  an 
entree, usually a side order, 
sometimes a piece of fruit, and a 
fountain drink.
On the surface, the new plans 
arent a horribly bad idea; yes, 
they do limit the use of meal 
blocks, so that the Sunday eve
ning drink rushes that upper
classmen have grown accus
tomed to are gone; however, the 
official line of reasoning for this 
is sound. If you pay for a meal, 
you should be buying a meal. 
That makes sense. What doesnt 
make sense, though, is that the 
options for how you can use that 
block are so few.
Half of the menu items at any 
given vendor arent even offered 
for consumption in-a meal block. 
You cant, for instance, walk into 
Gingers Deli and order a chicken 
wrap meal  it simply doesnt 
exist. And dont even think about 
trying to get a bottle of water, or
heaven forbid, a carton of milk 
with part of a meal block  most 
vendors dont offer any drink 
other than fountain sodas.
The block meal limitation is 
actually the most dire change for 
upperclassmen, of course. Even 
though some items will still be 
offered, their price when bought 
outside of blocks are two to three 
dollars more than the equiva
lent block values, creating a 
de facto bias against people not 
on the meal plan  essentially, 
Dining Services is saying pay for 
a meal plan now or end up pay
ing even more later.
What if you arent that hun
gry, but you still need to eat? 
You could use DineXtra, but that 
wastes blocks and limits pur
chasing power later in the week. 
Last year, students were able 
to buy, say, a side item at the 
Underground and a few yogurts 
or drinks to round out the block 
and save them for later. This is 
also no longer possible.
One of the goals of having the 
Schatz block was to promote 
student interaction in a commonarea or cafeteria setting. This is a 
noble goal, and while it is a major
point of contention for many, it 
really has little impact on dining 
habits. One dinner in Schatz a 
week is not exactly a huge sac
rifice, especially when everyone 
else on the plan has to do it too. 
Sure, the food isnt great, but its 
not really any worse than any
where else on campus  many 
other colleges have even fewer 
choices, so arguing about spend
ing one night a week at Schatz 
largely amounts to wasting 
energy.
However, limiting the ability 
of first-year students, and even 
upperclassmen, on the meal 
plan, to eat the way they choose 
to eat, is really going against 
the stated purposes of Dining 
Services. Dining Services wants 
to give students an opportuni
ty to have balanced meals and 
improve social interaction with 
increased use of a cafeteria set
ting. However, the crippled meal 
plans make it exceedingly hard 
to actually get balanced meals 
regularly  many students will 
find that there are only one or 
two offerings they actually like 
and will stick with that choice 
all year.
Many first-years will likely 
choose not to continue their 
support of Dining Services next 
year, after a poor experience at 
the start of their college careers. 
The new meal plan arrange
ment makes it harder for stu
dents to adjust to life on their 
own, because they are still being 
told what to eat and when to eat 
it: They dont have to prioritize 
and budget food (or money) on 
their own like the previous setup 
required.
In all, the new meal plan seems 
to be a step backwards for Dining. 
Instead of forcing students into a 
fabricated ideal of what a full 
meal should be, Dining Services 
should be giving students oppor
tunities to think for themselves 
and giving them options so they 
are compelled to care, if they 
want students to stay with them 
for one second longer than nec
essary.
Evan Sundwick (esundwic@J is 
a sophomore professional writing 
and decision science major and 
serves as The Tartans Production 
Manager. He welcomes all respon
sible replies.
THE TARTAN
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen
STAFFWRITERS 
Mustafa Khan, Jonathan 
Mendelson, Laura Marie Palotie, 
Laura Sauer, James Tetlow, 
Katherine Thompson,
Lucas Yiannatji
ART
Bridget Lewis, Laura Semesky, 
Vanessa Shyu
COMICS 
Josh Atlas, Zachary Beard, 
Amy Bickerton, Jon Brodsky, 
Max Kauffman, Greg Prichard, 
Ed Ryan, Yann Seznec, Lisa 
Troutman, Dinah Winnick
PHOTO
Julie Frederking, Natalie 
Gonzalez, Wenyao Ho, Eugene 
Hsia, Matt Meurer, Shafeeq 
Sinnamohideen, Orathai 
Sukwong, Henry Tsai
COPY
Kevin Chang, Catherine Fan, 
Corinne Pascale
JUNIOR STAFF 
Bryan Arsham, Mandy Flynn, 
Brittany McCandles, Kevin 
Purtell, Jill Wetzler
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie 
Mellon University, funded in part, by the 
Student Activities Fee. It is a weekly publi
cation by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, printed by Valley News Dispatch, 
Inc. The Tartan is not an official publication 
of Carnegie Mellon University. The first issue 
is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the 
discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial 
Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions 
of their individual creators. Letters to the 
Editor are the opinions of their authors. 
Letters from within the University com
munity take precedence. Letters intended 
for publication must be signed and include 
the author's address and telephone number 
for verification; letters must not exceed 350 
words. Authors names may be withheld 
from publication upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 pm on 
the Thursday before publication by mail or 
to forum@thetartan.org. The Tartan Editorial 
Staff reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit.
Comments about and suggestions for The 
Tartan and notices of errata should be directed 
to The Tartans independent Ombudsman at 
ombudsman@thetartan.org.
 2004 The Tartan, all rights reserved. 
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Office: University Center room 314 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Advertisements: (412) 268-2113 
Fax: (412) 268-1596 
Mail:
The Tartan / Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Kendall Geers S_LAUGHTER" installation [see related Pillbox article, page 4] seeks to portray 
both the irony in drastically different words within words, and the difference between the typi
cal depiction of African history and what Geers wishes to portray. We asked:
What do you think of the SJ.AUGHTER sign?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by J.T. Trollman
Eric Chen
Sophomore 
Computer Science
I actually never noticed it before.
Natalie Slaughter
Masters
Science, Public Policy and Management
It is important for us to continue the dia
logue around historical events that have 
shaped ... of our country, and using cre
ative means ... is a clever way to do that.
Lauren Ingram
Senior
English
Its an interesting juxtaposition of con
cepts, but knowing the story behind the 
display gives it a more significant dimen
sion.
John Wylie
Masters
Saxophone
I didnt know anything about the origin
 [but] it makes you think about the roots 
of words, and the roots of words represent 
how we think as a people.
Neha Mehta
First-year student 
Psychology
Before I even knew about it, I thought 
it was ironic how they brought out the 
laughter in slaughter.

---------------------------------------------------

because other areas of your life need immediate
Go with the plan that leaves you some cash
AT&T WIRELESS GSM AMERICA NATIONAL PLAN
 FREE weekend minutes
FREE nights
FREE nationwide long distance
FREE calling to all other AT&T Wireless customers
NO domestic roaming charges from the U.S.
AH benefits available from your applicable Service Area 
with a 2-year agreement. See below for activation fee . 
and monthly charges.
CARNEGIE MELLON STUDENTS,
STOP BY AN AT&T WIRELESS 
STORE TODAY!
youre missing all the fun
mMode
E-mail, the Web, ring tones and games to go 
mMode lets you bring it all with you.
international Calling
Now you can call over 200 countries with 
some of our lowest rates ever by adding 
Enhanced Discounted International Dialing 
to any qualified calling plan for an additional 
$3.99/mo. Airtime or roaming charges and 
mobile surcharges may apply.
Picture Messaging
Send pictures to your friends and family,
Text Messaging
Stay connected throughout the day.
Instant Messaging
Stay connected with iM even when youre 
away from your PC.
;  f wi '0wS'jgj;
;
v

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

STAFF
b2p1.Sr0p 4::r1pl eMark Egerman
b-rStlcrscfwrp: eAdam Greenberg
ioso7rs7 b-rStl eFranklin Williams
grhhdt2 b-rStl eMichelle M. Bova
ftIr1a b-rStl eEli Pousson
gwtSt b-rStl eJ.T. Trollman
ClS b-rStl eLizza McGregor
ftnu ioso7pl eArthur ODwyer
glt-.1Srts ioso7pl eEvan Sundwick
Cover by Uzza McGregor 
Photo byJ.T. Trollman 
The Tartan 
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
www.thetartan.orgCatch Heros stunning moves. 
page 6
minn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI
CONTENTS.
SLAUGHTER
Sign spawns perplexity.
Juni
Beautifully rendered Chinese film.
ornSut afrfu
Zach Braff stars as NJ youth.
InnThis uee:
Crowds in a frenzy over heavy metal.
Elghathy frdo
Tons for the local student to enjoy.
-hlwdbhb mptciq kp,h EwVab
Sound for film performed on the spot.
COMICKAZE
Love and rockets.
4-
no.
So
Impromptu Planning: First-years gather in the famously fun Orientation 
event, and ice-breaker extraordinare at Playfair.

---------------------------------------------------

Minute music reviews
In 60 seconds or less or they're free
The Streets - A Grand Dont Come for Free 
Genre: British hip-hop 
Release Date: May 10, 2004
Everyone knows that the United States does 
hip-hop better than anyone else. Even the MTV 
rappers have a knack for rhyming the word 
cheddar 20 times in a row. Okay, so maybe 
Mike Skinner cant flow like Jay-Z, but who isnt 
impressed with hearing a line like We cannot 
have that behaviour in this establishment in 
a thick British accent? A Grand Dont Come for 
Free is one of the coolest albums Ive heard this 
year. Miles ahead of the Streets debut release 
Original Pirate Material, this album sets its tone 
in the first minute of the first track. With inter
esting choruses, melodic samples, and Skinners 
signature humor woven into every song, this is 
a good album to have just for the sake of diver
sifying your collection. If you give it a spin (and 
youre new to the Streets), dont expect the usual 
subjects, styles, or vocabularies found in U.S. 
hip-hop. Instead, prepare yourself to trip along 
with the choppy beats and lyrics Skinner lays 
down in this new release.
Reigning Sound - Too Much Guitar
Genre: Garage rock 
Release Date: May 17, 2004
Tired of the garage rock revival yet? Me neither. 
Reigning Sound, the brainchild of Memphis-born 
Greg Cartwright (The Oblivians, Compulsive 
Gamblers), has released another rock and roll 
gem, Too Much Guitar. A follow up to their amaz
ing Time Bomb High School album in 2002, Too 
Much Guitar has managed to imitate, embrace, 
and in many ways transcend the 60s genre. 
Almost everything about this album screams 
old-school, from the lead singers voice to the 
noisy guitars, repetitive refrains, and even a 
good harmonica player. But underneath the 
obvious connections to an old-fangled genre, 
there is something undeniably soulful and con
temporary about this album. Is it on the level 
of Time Bomb? If it isnt, its not much worse. Id 
recommend this album to anyone who thinks 
rock and roll is dead.
Mirah - Cmon Miracle
Genre: Art-pop
Release Date: May 10, 2004
This Microphones-produced sweetheart has
once again graced my ears with a new album, 
Cmon Miracle. Alternating between mellow, 
string-heavy ballads and driving drum beats, 
this album has a nice mix of sweet-sounding 
tracks with enough punch to keep you interest
ed. The production on this album is impressive, 
but overshadowed by Mirahs incredible grasp 
of emotional lyrics and melody. Ive never heard 
an angel sing, but Ive heard Mirah, and thats 
good enough for me. Catch her and Xiu Xiu in 
Pittsburgh on October 19.
!!! - Louden Up Now
Genre: Dance-punk 
Release Date: June 7, 2004
No band has been more instrumental in bringing 
embarrassing white-boy dance moves back to 
small-venue shows than !!! (widely pronounced 
chk chk chk). As much as I appreciate the fact 
that I no longer have to be paralyzed from the 
neck down at shows, this album blows. Chockfull of generic beats, gratuitous profanity, and no 
real stand-out tracks, I find this album incredibly 
difficult to stomach. Id expect to hear this blar
ing from a DJ booth at a club rather than a PA 
at Mr. Smalls. Save your money (or bandwidth) 
for something better, like their self-titled. Ask for 
it by name.
;rhh kpSMhpl 
;.srtl mSo::UlrSpl
Courtesy of Reigning Sound
Reigning Sound revives garage rock.
folsp7rp 
ChIoso1
50 YEARS AGO
September 21,1954
Carnegie Tech started a nine-week series on WQED, Pittsburgh's ground
breaking educational TV station. The program, titled There's No Magic to 
Physics, used visual demonstrations to explain physical phenomena to the 
general public. Broadcasts, each narrated by a different Tech professor, 
centered on individual topics such as optics and electricity.
25 YEARS AGO 
September 11,1979
A new Libertarian Club was founded at Carnegie-IVIellon amidst the founding 
of similar groups around the nation. The group, devoted to the laissez-faire 
economic structure and limited government of their namesake political party, 
did not officially endorse the partys platform or candidates; it had to sepa
rate itself from the Libertarian Party to get University funding.
10 YEARS AGO 
September 6,1994
The University held its annual activities fair in a large tent on the campus 
lawns due to construction of the University Center. It was considered a suc
cess by University officials, who werent sure if the tent would be able to hold 
all the organizations requesting space.
5 YEARS AGO 
August 30,1999
Housing Services unveiled Forbes House in its first incarnation in the former 
Sigma Tau Gamma house at 1057 Morewood on the fraternity quad after Sig 
Tau's decision to leave the quad for financial reasons. Housing Services plan 
for the house was as a site for first-year students devoted to leadership and 
community service. They were skeptical at first of placing first-year students 
in the quad, but were quickly placated by the Greek organizations.
1 YEAR AGO 
September 8,2003
A Carnegie Mellon employee was arrested in Westmoreland County on charges 
of soliciting sex from a police officer posing online as a minor girl. The 
employee (whose name is withheld here for privacy reasons) was in Hempfield 
Township with the intention of meeting this girl at a McDonalds restaurant. 
The police officer with whom the employee communicated had originally been 
contacted while at a training course on computer crime at Edinboro University 
of Pennsylvania.
C-oI qlppsdpl7H b-rStlcrscfwrp:
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

SLAUGHTER = LAUGHTER?
Sign says just two words, but gets people talking
Upon entering Carnegie Mellons campus this fall, stu
dents have been confronted with a curious change 
in the campus landscape: A flashing red neon sign 
tops the Purnell Center, alternating between the words 
LAUGHTER and SLAUGHTER. The sign causes one 
to stop and think, if just for a second, because many 
students are not likely to have given thought to the 
fact that two such seemingly opposite concepts can be 
so close in their linguistic structure. Although the sign 
provides a rather powerful artistic message on its own, 
it is only one of several works dealing with the ques
tion of authenticity and cultural identity in A Fiction of 
Authenticity: Contemporary Africa Abroad, an exhibi
tion featuring 11 of todays leading African-American 
and European artists.
The exhibition, running at the Regina Gouger Miller 
Gallery from August 20 until October 3, was originally 
produced at the Contemporary Art Museum in St. Louis. 
A Fiction of Authenticity began as the premier exhibi
tion at the museums brand new facility. It is quite an 
impressive group of people they have brought together, 
said Jennifer Strayer, director of the Regina Gouger Mill
er gallery. In addition to featuring a premier group of the 
worlds contemporary artists, the show is particularly ex
ceptional, because each of the artists involved was asked 
to produce an entirely new work for the exhibition. This 
is a very massive undertaking, an extremely ambitious 
show, Strayer explained.
Strayer, along with Shannon Fitzgerald, a curator from 
the Contemporary Art Gallery, decided to bring the ex
hibition to Carnegie Mellon, having noticed that this 
would be an appropriate art show for a university set
ting. On September 10, some of the artists involved will 
be giving gallery talks, performances, and demonstra
tions on campus at a special artists reception. The event 
will give students the rare opportunity to connect with 
artists of this stature, said Strayer.
A Fiction of Authenticity examines the notion of au
thenticity from several different angles, from personal to 
cultural and artistic standpoints. All of the featured art
ists are native Africans, but now live in the United States 
or Europe. Thus, they possess a dual identity as a result 
of feeling a connection to two very different cultures. 
Furthermore, the exhibition examines the question of 
what associations one draws from art that is labeled as 
authentically African or European. Those who previous
ly have seen a sharp divide between their perceptions of 
African and Western art will soon discover that old, ste
reotypical definitions no longer hold.
This [show] is a broad representation on what is going
on in the contempoiary art realm, explained Strayer. jhe controversial sign above Purnell is part of a larger display created by an African artist Rendall Geers.
From a purely artistic standpoint, the show plays with 
the notion of validity in modernist terms. An artist might 
ask himself what it truly means for a work of art to be 
authentic. In the past, our perception of authentic art 
was one where a piece was entirely handmade, while in 
todays art this notion has passed somewhat. This idea of 
arts authenticity is utilized in some of the pieces as well. 
The exhibit blends numerous different forms of visual 
art in refreshing, innovative ways, from photography 
and painting to sculpture and video.
The noticeable and controversial SLAUGHTER/LAUGH
TER sign was created by Kendall Geers, an artist born 
in South Africa who currently works in Brussels. This 
highly respected current contemporary artist addresses 
the relationships of words within words in his work. 
These relationships are often ironic and amusing, such 
as that of the words laughter and slaughter, and fre
quently just one letter can make a world of difference. 
The piece is sure to produce reactions, and might cause 
one to think about the ways entertainment and violence 
are connected in our society.
So far, many have not been aware of the connection be
tween the exhibition and the sign. I do not think many 
people on campus pay much attention to the sign, said 
Allan Velzy, a junior design major. My personal reaction
is neutral, though it does leave me wondering about the 
exhibit below it.
Although most other student responses, according to 
Strayer, have been positive, there have been some up
set reactions from students who have found the con
tent of the piece offensive. There are definitely people 
who would prefer all the risqu artwork remain at The 
Frame, said Velzy.
Strayer reminds students that it is important for art to be 
provocative and to encourage discussion. [The fact that 
people talk about the sign] is a positive thing. We want 
art to be an occasion for reflection, thought, joy and plea
sure. Especially on a university campus, you want there 
to be dialogue among the community on meaningful is
sues, especially during current times, she said. Velz/s 
opinion on the controversy reflected this idea, showing 
that among the student body there exists appreciation 
for the discussion that art stimulates. I think it is kind 
of cool that we are on an open-minded campus. It would 
not be the college experience without controversy, 
Velzy said.
6o.lo gohtSrp 
mSo::UlrSpl
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Telnet untK.arnlrew.CTTwjLedu$ movie
by james auwaerter, 
forum editor
Shift: Words in the work
CMU students present an open and engaging display downtown
When considered individually, the exhibits on display 
in the Edge Studios newest gallery  from Familiar 
to Appeal to Perception, to the more exotically titled 
Vivace and Jyoti (words of Italian and Sanskrit ori
gins, respectively)  have little relation to each other. 
When observed as a whole, however, these works 
embody the paradox of modern public architecture 
and design, this juggling act between the desire to be 
accommodating and acceptable while also breathing 
imagination and sophistication.
Exclusively comprising recent projects by 13 Carnegie 
Mellon students, Shift: A Word about the Work is a 
chronicle of the interdisciplinary work that has recently 
emerged between the architecture and design depart
ments. The gallery, organized by CMU in conjunction 
with the award-winning design team Edge Studio and 
non-profit arts group The Sprout Fund, is the latest 
addition to Penn Avenues Unblurred series. Opening 
this past week, Shift joins the other art programs that 
are running on this historic street, and will continue 
until September 17.
The event, spearheaded by CMU professors and Edge 
Studio members Gary Carlough and David Burn, hopes 
to provide an ongoing street dialogue within the 
Pittsburgh design community, according to flyers cir
culated by the studio at the exhibitions opening.
The philosophy of the exhibit is to bring awareness to 
how students treat the visual world, and how they chal
lenge whats already out there, senior design student 
Cynthia Maletz said.
The presentations on display range from public struc
tures, as seen in the works of junior Read Langworthy 
and sophomore Yoonsun Yang, both architecture 
majors, to more abstract art by senior architecture 
major Samantha Triolo and others. However, per
haps the most interesting exhibits involve everyday 
objects, as Maletz terms it her designs of kitchen 
knives and school bags. Other everyday objects in 
the exhibition range from fifth-year design senior Matt 
Meurers designs of digital cameras and fitness equip
ment to sophomore architect Gabriel Cuellars portable 
bench.
We should be ... trying to move away from visual 
orientation and moving toward stimulation of all the 
senses. Architecture as visual communication can only 
be skin deep; its about the body as a whole, Cuellar 
said.
In fact, the gallerys stark confrontation of the bal
ance between mainstream appeal and artistic integ
rity generates a variety of opinions on how this can be 
approached and achieved.
While Maletz argues that her designs must work 
primarily for those who are going to be using them, 
Cuellar believes solely in the value of personal motiva
tion.
My perception of what the public perceives as visually 
stimulating is not important. The process for develop
ing an idea is not in a vacuum, of course, but trying to 
balance my work to be visually oriented is not some
thing I give much attention to. I believe any thoughtful 
architect can create sensually oriented work, Cuellar 
insists.
Interestingly though, while the artwork and ambitions 
of these artists are certainly captivating enough, the 
true memory of this experience ultimately lies in its 
presentation. If there is anything that makes the Shift 
exhibition significant, it is its openness, the surprising 
ease with which one can casually stroll in and begin 
observing. The studio gallery, looking like a cleanedup, fluorescent-lit mechanics garage with its door 
wide open for service, provides its audience a rare and 
candid opportunity to connect  some with their stu
dents, some with their peers, some with their craft, and 
all with their community.
i.aSo:o 5wos 
mSo::UlrSpl
Editors Note: Matt Meurer is a former member of The 
Tartans photo staff.
Photo courtesy of Andrew Caruso
Words become art in Julia's Zimmermans, Dia------- ----------------------------
12 Monkeys
RLoHNo-Hhe aFr hNH aEy.Fu
Too often, time travel movies suck. For every Back To The Future, there's a 
Timecop. Lucky for you, Wednesday is good movie night, so you get Twelve 
Monkeys instead of something like Doctor Who. Bruce Willis is a man sent back 
in time to stop an evil cult from releasing some sort of virus and killing almost 
everyone. I am told this movie is based on LaJette, but the kind of people who 
say stuff like that are pretentious jerks. U.S.A.! U.S.A.!
The Dreamers
clspT-Hher draFr hNH aEu
While the movie takes place in the midst of the excitement of Paris in 1968, 
the focus of The Dreamers is on the micro-political level as the film follows the 
lives of three young students. Its Bertolucci; its a beautiful film. If you walked 
out of Last Tango in Paris last year scratching your head, this might not be for 
you. Its NC-17, so dont bring your kid sister, unless shes cool like that.
Hellboy
cwTiHher ?y.FraFr hNH aEy.Fu
Now, I consider myself something of a comic-book film aficionado. It's always 
difficult to move from print to a major motion picture and keep the same feel 
 /M/wycouldnt meet the challenge. Instead of telling the story of an infant 
demon conjured by Nazis and who grows up to be a paranormal investigator 
from a point of view that actually exists in the comic, they write in a new 
character whose only point is to follow Hellboy around and get in the way of 
the action. Great concept, poor execution.
The Punisher
cthSpTHher ?y.FraFr hNH aEy.Fu
This movie made a solid effort to remain true to its comic book roots. Even 
the minor characters like Mr. Bumpo show up briefly, though Id fire the 
casting director who hired Rebecca Romijn to play Joan. The problem is 
that its a lot grittier than most people are used for comic book movies. 
While this is fitting for the new direction Marvel is taking Punisher (their 
new Max line is adults-only), it might not be what people were looking for.
Soul Plane
ctpNHher draFr hNH aEu
The question on each persons mind before he plunks down a hard-earned 
buck: Will this be the version that was seen in other theatres, or the special 
Unrated And Out Of Control version with hilarious outtakes from Tom Arnold, 
Snoop Dogg, and more? After all, stale gags and quasi-racist jokes are 
always great fun, but any airline comedy has big shoes to fill, coming in after 
Airplane!, Airplane II: The Sequel, and How to Fly the B24-D Airplane. Demand 
more for your dollar.
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

INCLUDES:
I ^LWBJ|f aJit ^1^2Mh eiiw Two 
.A MnB dAnBJ.frAWB MJ.sioZ
I cByBJRmBaiJBRCBBA rJf ia 
^JroiASC CziJPh ErJSJiWh 
mZ lnJ.Cfi|nBJ Frist
I ^LWsbC.yB aisPibf tr| 
I ^L|rAPBP ob.PB fi DAW.BAf 
rAP 1zrJa srAobroBC
Sign up for the Eragon 
Newsletter at www.alagaesia.com 
and receive exclusive updates 
from author Christopher Paolini!EvanSoneofTHE
CarneCgiaMn geCloSO
"THE HOTIST FAHTASY TtlU OF THE MOMEHT. USI oay 
"PAOLINI... 200Vs HOTTEST PROM DATE -
to'maaknauicmtohomWit& ........wailabl-e wherever books are sold.
*i . s M03 ty w* u. fc. " ^ AS SEEN ON UTE SHOW' WITH DAVID LETTERMAN!
and confident every time he speaks. The backgrounds 
of friendship, romance and betrayal between the three 
assassins (Sky, Broken Sword, and Flying Snow) feel 
absolutely convincing. The dialogue is sparse: Hardly a 
useless word is uttered. Each line from every character 
has a clear purpose and direction, creating a very digni
fied atmosphere for the film.
Hero is an action movie above all, with some of the bestchoreographed fight scenes ever put on screen. Each 
battle has an almost ethereal quality, with the combat
ants moving with the impossible grace common in films 
like this. Hero could be considered a quintessential genre 
film, overcoming its predecessors with an epic sense of 
scale and stellar production values  and it would de
serve the distinction. The movie will be a treat for any
one who enjoys martial-arts films or period pieces, and 
American audiences should feel lucky they are getting 
the opportunity to see it in its full glory.
b0os m.s-Ur18 
glt-.1Srts ioso7pl
Hero: slashing with spirit
Colorful scenes make for stylish film
Laura Semesky/Art Staff
trials to the king through the use of flashback sequences
 the entire movie is told in this manner, with short in
terludes of Nameless speaking to the King.
One quirk of this film is that parts of the story are retold 
several times by Nameless and the King, so some scenes 
happen several times with subtle (and not so subtle) dif
ferences in each telling. Luckily each version of the story 
is told in a different color palette, as mentioned earlier, 
so as long as the audience pays attention its not too dif
ficult to keep up to speed.
Visually, the film is absolutely stunning. The fight scenes 
are more fluid and fast-paced than those found in Crouch
ing Tiger, and the environments are very rich  ancient 
libraries, schools of calligraphy, desert plateaus, dense 
forests, and palatial foyers all share screen time as back
drops for the story. Color, of course, plays a huge role 
in the film, and the directors use of consistently strong 
light lets that color shine through. There are no dark, 
murky scenes in Hero  everything is brightly lit and 
vibrant, like a real folklore-style story should be.
The acting and dialogue, of course, take second chair 
to the setting and visual content of the film. Thats not 
to say, however, that there is anything wrong with the 
acting. Appropriately enough, the four assassins are all 
very subdued characters, while the king is grandiose
Hero is better than Crouching Tiger; Hidden Dragon. That 
one sentence sums up the film pretty well, actually; If 
you liked Crouching Tiger youll love Hero.
Hero, directed by Yimou Zhang, was originally released 
in China in 2002. The film, which follows the story of 
a nameless assassin (martial arts legend Jet Li) on his 
trek to dethrone ancient Chinas king of Qin (Daoming 
Chen), spent two years in production limbo while Mi
ramax Entertainment fought to gain the rights to dis
tribute it in North America. Finally, famed producer/di
rector Quentin Tarantino put up money to get the film 
distributed.
The struggle to release the movie was only a shadow 
of the epic scope of the film itself. Hero is shot with an 
extraordinary attention to a sort of bleak detail that re
ally sets the film visually apart from almost every other 
movie out there. The film is divided into four segments, 
each denoted by an overarching color theme (there is a 
red portion, a blue portion, a white portion, and a green 
portion), and each segment tells a different part of the 
story.
The movie opens with Nameless (Li) approaching the 
kings chamber, with the news that he has defeated the 
three most powerful assassins in the kingdom. The mov
ie tells his story to the audience as Nameless recounts his
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Garden State's quirky realism proves true
Wants to be edgy but ends up sweet
must be driving natives crazy), its a place that is both 
familiar and delightfully surprising. Braff has managed 
to capture the essence of the Garden State perfectly, as a 
place where working-class neighborhoods can coexist in 
the same zip code with mansions that evoke castles. The 
atmospheres are richly and sharply rendered, from the 
sterile beige walls of the Largemans McMansion to the 
cheery, messy warmth of Sams living room.
The characters all live up to their surroundings too, 
filling them to the top with personality. Although not 
handsome in a classic movie star sort of way, Braff s ear
nestness and solidity make him a very attractive hero. 
Portman manages to be constantly bubbly without grat
ing on the audiences nerves, and the supporting charac
ters fill out their roles nicely, particularly Holm as Braff s 
emotionally constipated psychiatrist of a father.
The one who really stands out, however, is Peter Sarsgaard as Larges friend Mark. With his greasy good looks, 
he manages to embody everything that is seedy and ex
citing and wonderful about the Garden State. Im okay 
with being unimpressive, he explains. I sleep better. 
Hes the kind of guy who has no bones about still living 
with his mother but who is secretly investing in Desert 
Storm trading cards, which one day he hopes to sell for a 
profit. He sells jewelry collects off of corpses and deals in 
tanks of nitrous but also goes out of his way for a friend; 
he inhabits a world that still shouts mischievous teen
ager, complete with mirjors above his bed. It is Marks 
constant undercurrent of danger that often keeps the 
film from slipping into sentimentality.
Garden State is not without its weaknesses. Despite the 
loose plotting, there are some moments that are still too 
far off track to be relevant, including one involving, of all 
people, Method Man. There is a graphic sex scene that is 
totally and utterly gratuitous, and a few characters sort 
of get lost in the haze. The ending, while sweet, seems 
rushed and clumsy. It is as if Braff suddenly decided 
he had to neatly wrap up his interconnected vignettes 
and panicked. Although some may like it, they may also 
wonder where along the line the film morphed into a ro
mantic comedy. Not that it wouldnt do well as such.
But looking back at that plane crash, this is a film trying 
to be a whole lot more  and almost succeeding.
Chp2os-lo 5rh-.:: 
PpUa b-rStl
Garden State, the directorial debut of NBCs Scrubs star 
Zach Braff, opens with a vague and abrupt scene aboard 
a passenger jet about to crash. As the airliner descends 
haphazardly, as Diet Coke flies through the air and 
people silently scream, the films protagonist, Andrew 
Largeman (played by Braff, who also wrote the film) 
sits numbly in his seat and stares straight ahead. This 
is followed by a surreal few seconds in which Large (as 
he is known to his friends) sees his bedroom telephone 
mounted next to the oxygen mask and then wakes up in 
his sterile white bed in Los Angeles, where his father is 
leaving a message stating that his mother has died.
The plane crash, we realize, is not an actual occurrence 
but a metaphor for Larges life. A television actor, he 
has been on lithium prescriptions of one sort or another 
since he was a child and consequently drifts through his 
days in a stupor. As he makes his way back to his home 
state of New Jersey for the funeral, he decides to leave 
his medication behind, and the story proceeds quietly 
from there.
The crash scene, however, should not be forgotten. Even 
as Large and the audience wind their way through the 
leafy, cloudy streets of New Jerseys suburbs, the journey 
is still punctuated with images that are just as disturb
ing as that initial one, and much more realistic. Without 
them, Garden State would be a very enjoyable, low-key 
story of a young mans search for self. With them, how
ever, the film becomes not only more realistic, but far 
more interesting.
Larges first stop is his mothers funeral, where he is cool
ly greeted by his distant father, played by Sir Ian Holm. 
He takes far more interest in his reunion with high 
school buddy Mark (Peter Sarsgaard), a gravedigger and 
sometime criminal, who drags him to a party right after 
the burial. Braff, who wrote the script based on expe
riences from his childhood in the Garden State, clearly 
knows the territory of bored young people in suburban 
surroundings. The sequence in which he and friends pop 
pills in a basement, presumably to break the ice with a 
group of girls, is totally absurd and yet believable.
Hope comes in the form of Sam, here played with sly en
ergy by Natalie Portman. An irrepressible pathological 
liar and epileptic (thankfully, Sams handicap is never 
played for sympathy, nor does it serve as some kind of 
saccharine plot device), she is exactly the breath of fresh 
air that Large needs. The two of them immediately start 
to confide in one another as Large attempts to enjoy the 
rest of his time with his friends and navigate through 
feelings hes kept suppressed for over a decade.
The movie is written in a fairly unstructured style, follow
ing the meandering course of a homecoming weekend, 
and yet it rarely drags. Although it is never made clear 
which New Jersey town Large lives in (something that
Courtesy of Miramax Films
Large and Sam, just in from a dip in a friend's pool, huddle together for warmth by the fire.
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

"Real" metal reappears at Ozzfest 2004
From Black Sabbath to Dimmu, the crowds went home happy
A gathering of the tribes, a celebration of all things abra
sive and aggressive, sweaty pits and asphalt. This was 
the day, two weekends ago, known as Ozzfest 2004. 
Gone was the amorphous line-up, bottom-heavy with 
no-name, major-label heavy bands. Out with the Linkin 
Park, in with the lamb of god. Adema? Funk that, give me 
Lacuna Coil, give me Black Label Society, and throw in a 
little Black Sabbath too, why dont you? Cause lets face 
it, if you like metal, nu-metal sucks.
In fact, bring out the heavy-hitters; lets see Rob Halford 
wail through Painkiller with his mates in Priest. Why 
not have Slayer open for them  imagine Kerry King and 
Jeff Hanneman with their dual attack before K.K. and 
Tipton? And have Dimmu Borgir open for them. Maybe 
bring out some of the NewWave of American Metal bands 
that are stealing the thunder back from the Europeans? 
Dude, it happened that day.
As I walked through the gates to the House of Ozz, I got 
the feeling that I get at any other conference  too many 
things to see, not enough time. Although I missed Bleed
ing Through and Atreyu (both of whom have stellar al
bums out right now), I did catch a bit of Throwdown with 
their brutal SoCal metal-core breakdowns. Even caught a 
bit of Dez (previously Coal Chambers new gig in Devildriver  definitely a rock-star in every good sense of the 
word. No matter how good anyone on the second stage 
was, the day belonged to lamb of god.
Considering the buzz and expectation that comes with 
being the first of the New Breed of American Metal bands 
to sign with a major label (Epic), you might expect that 
lamb would implode under the pressure. But with a vola
tile, charming front-man in Randy Blythe, all that pres
sure is released as fury that is recycled back from the 
crowd. Imagine a ten-megaton bomb dropped on your 
head and you get the idea of As the Palaces Burn, their 
last album.
With pits swirling in front of them, horns thrown in the 
air, the air was electric. Closing with Black Label from 
their classic album New American Gospel (Metal Blade), 
lamb of god have laid to rest any fears of weakening un
der label expectations.
As I left behind the fan in me to talk with Andy from sec
ond-stagers Every Time I Die, I found possibly the big
gest fan in me of all. We chatted about everything from 
the legendary Death to touring with Tony Iommi. From 
a small but loyal fan base, ETID have catapulted them
selves into the limelight by touring the continent many 
times over and by playing kick-ass tight sets like the one 
they did that Saturday. Showing off their sense of humor
by playing under a banner out of Stalins closet, they won 
me over as a listener that day. Check them out this Hal
loween when they come back to town with the Dillinger 
Escape Plan.
Another band that has moved itself by leaps and bounds 
above its peers is Dimmu Borgir. From playing in the 
tightly knit Black Metal community to opening for Slayer, 
Judas Priest, and Black Sabbath, Dimmu has gotten the 
attention of metal fans who hadnt thought of checking 
out this sub-genre. I had the chance to ask Silenoz (gui
tarist) about opening for the big three, which he says is an 
honor. And as far as playing to conventional metal fans, 
he said that although Dimmu live a certain lifestyle, 
they have always been about the music, the whole packAlbert Cohen/Senior Pillbox Staff 
Tom Araya of Slayer belts out a tune to the crowds.
age ... [T]he life we lived 10 years ago wouldnt make 
sense on a.tour of this magnitude.
As far as conveying the darker elements of their music 
during the daylight (as opposed to in the dark confines 
of a club), they feel that it does diminish ... the intensity, 
but it is also because we are more unknown here in the 
States as opposed to Europe where weve played festivals 
to lots of people at say 1 pm, but we were more known 
there.
As far as the lineup as a whole, the band says, [We] feel 
like were underdogs, no matter where we play, espe
cially here where we play with the big name bands, but 
no matter what, it is a good feeling and we are grateful 
because afterwards we see lots of people walking around 
with our T-shirts!
After Dimmu brought their black wrath to an unsuspect
ing audience, the big three of Slayer, Priest, and Sab
bath took the stage. Slayer was, well... Slayer. Nothing 
ground-breaking, just crowd pleasing as always. From 
the classics of Reign in Blood and South of Heaven to 
Bloodline off their last album, Slayer played a full hourish set with no fat left on the bone.
Priest, on the other hand, stole my heart. Seeing the one 
and only Rob Halford reunited with the co-godfathers of 
metal was too much joy to bear. With twin ramps jutting 
out into the crowd, smoke billowed out as the opening 
strains of Electric Eye screamed out of Glenn and K.K.s 
guitars. Racing through a set of classics, it felt like 1983 
all over again. Sigh. That voice! Mr. Halford even graced 
us with an appearance of the famous Harley during Hell 
Bent for Leather.
Ending the evening was a cackling, yet audibly tired and 
under-the-weather Ozzy as he fronted the originators of 
metal, the mighty Black Sabbath. With a closet of clas
sics like NIB, Fairies Wear Boots, and Children of 
the Brave to cover, they left all satisfied, even if they did 
only play an hour. Fittingly, as Paranoid rolled around, 
the skies opened up and drenched us lucky souls on the 
green. Thankfully, Black Sabbath treated us to a thunder 
and lightning show instead of the usual fireworks. No 
one would have expected any less.
ChdplS ftwps 
mpsrtl grhhdt2 mSo::
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Picnic in the park
Schenley brings music, history and nature to CMU's backyard
lows can create a sense of peace.
Binstocks tour gave a rudimentary idea of the plant life, 
with a little occasional history mixed in. As she crossed the 
various bridges she told a bit about each one. The bridge 
near the lake was a WPA project created in 1939, while 
other bridges were constructed in the 1890s. Though the 
history is intriguing, it is not the main focus of the tour; 
there are specific historical tours that serve that purpose. 
The Weekly Walks in the Woods are exemplified by the 
young girl who picked up a feather only to have Binstock 
praise her for having possibly the most exciting find of 
the day.
Both Binstock and the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy can 
lend a basic idea of the parks history. However, some of 
the same information can be found in the Visitor Center 
kiosk, which is more or less an interactive display with 
information on a range of Schenley topics.
Bradford L. Yankiver/Assistant Photo Editor
Pittsburgh isnt all concrete Wean-esque wasteland. Any
one in the area behind Hunt Library can see that peek
ing over the hill are signs of plant life. Not just a patch of 
grass helping to keep a city tree alive, either, but a great 
expansive area. Its fairly certain that Flagstaff Hill is a 
familiar point for many students on Carnegie Mellons 
campus; however, they may not be aware that Schenley 
Park is not just a great place to picnic or toss a frisbee. It 
is a historic location dating back to 1890, a 452-acre park 
with a variety of activities for the nature buff, the music 
aficionado, and anyone interested in history. Pittsburgh 
has four major parks  Highland, Frick, Riverview, and 
Schenley  but Schenley is the most accessible of these 
from the Oakland area. It has recently undergone com
prehensive renovation and gotten a new pathway near 
Panther Hollow Lake.
The park is not just an observer environment; it can be 
used as a learning experience too. For those who love na
ture, or those who love to escape their books for a few 
hours now and then, the historical or nature-based walks 
can be an excuse to see the sun, even during the most 
grueling times of the year. Of course, anyone can walk 
the pathways and soak the outside world in, but for those 
easily bored, guides are eager. The Venture Outdoors 
program sponsors the historical and guided walks.
Linda Binstock is one of these guides. As she led last 
Wednesdays tour, Binstock was exuberant to find that 
her group was so large. Walking along, the mixed-age 
group, ranging from those in their sixties to several chil
dren, was guided and summarily informed as to the ori
gins of several types of fauna. The trees are well known by 
Binstock; she discussed several with the group, including 
those that were imported from other regions. The path 
along which the guide takes her group winds down to the 
wetlands, Binstocks own term. The lake may not strike 
one as particularly beautiful, but yet the surrounding wil
Tihree women volunteers for the conservancy: Mary Connolly, Ann Young and Linda Bucci.
 1----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Bradford L. Yankiver/Assistant Photo Editor 
Sarah Taylor and Shingi Samudzi, both CMU first-years, explored the paths of Schenley Park this past Sunday.
The history of Schenley, as well as that of Pittsburghs 
three other large public parks, can draw people to the 
locations, but for those who are more concerned with 
the parks future, it would be good to look to the restora
tion projects. The future of the park would be a decidedly 
bleaker one were it not for the Pittsburgh Parks Conser
vancy, of which Abbie Pauley is a member.
Pauley is the Director of Institutional Advancement and 
has been with the organization since the creation of the 
board of directors in 1998. Her function on the board 
includes being the chief fundraiser, and she is involved 
in the newsletter (The Voice) and marketing for the PPC. 
Fundraising is one of the main necessities for the parks, 
and the PPC has raised many millions of dollars to do 
so, as Pauley indicated. At the turn of the century the 
parks were at their height... in Highland Park there was 
a grand Victorian Garden ... [there was] the boathouse 
at Schenley. We [PPC] formed with an eye to bring these 
historic places back, said Pauley.
She explained that the PPC is a nonprofit organization, 
as is the Venture Outdoors program, which organizes 
some of the events that take place at Schenley and the 
other three parks. The PPC, she said, was modeled after 
the Central Park Conservancy, which was created to help 
make the New York landmark of the same name safer.
In terms of restoring the parks, Pauley expounded on 
several efforts to create new projects to help Schenley re
main aesthetically pleasing. They have started showcase 
projects, of which the Schenley Park Visitor Center was 
the second. (The Frick Gatehouse was the first.) Pauley 
described how the center came about. [The Visitor Cen
ter] was shuttered up for 10 years because the city could 
not afford to maintain it.
The Visitor Center guidebook describes how the build
ing was once called the Pittsburgh Civic Garden Center. 
It was a popular nature museum, housing snakes and 
other creatures. It then fell into disrepair and closed.... 
After the PPC came into existence, and park-goers were 
surveyed, people said: Schenleys great but theres no
where to go to the restroom.  Now, Pauley said, there is 
an area to meet, grab some food and use the facilities.
Still, the great outdoors are the main concern of the PPC, 
and recently a new trail by Panther Hollow Lake was re
stored. The difference between Panther Hollow and oth
er trails in the area is noticeable. While far less treacher
ous, the trail has yet to be overgrown and hence takes 
on a manufactured look. However, Pauley emphasized 
that all the changes that are done to the parks are done 
with the ecosystem in mind. The visitor center is a green 
building, and there are volunteers who work their ways 
around the four parks trying to remove the many inva
sive species that have begun to destroy the biodiversity 
in the parks, explained Pauley.
The park restoration is far from over. Pauley mentioned
that the area around Panther Hollow Lake needs more 
work, but that it is a very delicate area to work with be
cause of the plant and animal life around there. Along 
the guided tour, Binstock mentioned that the concrete 
steps around the lake, which were placed there in the 
1950s, are almost definitely going to be removed. In ad
dition, the parking lot area in front of the University of 
Pittsburghs Hillman Library will be turned back into 
Schenley Plaza. The projects fact sheet, available from 
the PPC, explains that the Plaza was originally intended 
to serve as a grand entrance plaza to the park. How
ever, the space became a parking lot over time. Eventu
ally the Plaza is slated to hold food kiosks and, of course, 
flower beds, according to the fact sheet. [See The Tartan, 
Schenley Plaza plan stalled, 6 October 2003].
Of course, Schenley Park, and specifically the Visitor Cen
ter, has housed many events since the space was created. 
Pauley explained that the way the musical performances 
found their way to the Center was that people had asked 
to use the area as a venue. Educational programs are also 
provided; teachers are invited by the PPC to learn cer
tain things and bring them back to the classroom as cur
riculum, said Pauley.
With Binstock and other guides, one might explore the 
outdoors in this enormous space. With Pauley and other 
members of the PPC it is possible to get involved with the
more regimented events. Just for the moment, though, 
while the work is stacked high and the outdoors seems 
a foreign world, perhaps Pauleys suggestion will work: 
Everybody needs a break from studying, and theres 
nothing like a walk in the trails to help you clear your 
mind.
Getting to the Schenley Park area takes almost no ef
fort in terms of distance or accessibility. As Pauley men
tioned, This space is great because it is in the backyard 
of the universities ... We have live music out on the pa
tio ... they [the students] can come and volunteer for a 
community service project. Those who decide to visit 
the space may find themeselves more involved than they 
might expect, and the atmosphere will hopefully induce 
those who spend too much time indoors to get into the 
woods at Schenley Park.
ir1wphhp t0o
grhhdt2 b-rStl
minn35BI ? September 2004.11

---------------------------------------------------

Movies with Live Soundtracks
Abstract films with sound performances right in front of audience's eyes.
An underground filmmaking tradition came to town 
when Pittsburgh Filmmakers hosted a Movies With 
Live Soundtracks show on September 2 at the Melwood 
Screening Room. The group came on its first tour since 
the mini film festival started in 1998.
Xander Marro, a filmmaker from Providence, R.I., want
ed to bring the energy of the music community and live 
performance into filmmaking, and so began Movies 
With Live Soundtracks.
The first show that the company did took place in a for
mer costume jewelry warehouse projected onto a sheet. 
The same raw, makeshift sentiment has stayed with the 
group to this day. Short films shot on 16mm, Super-8, 
or video are accompanied by soundtracks performed 
in front of the screen. From narratives to guitar singalongs and prank phone calls to staticky music, there is 
no real standard to what makes a soundtrack.
Most filmmakers put their films together at the last min
ute, the way Boston filmmaker Ben Coonley describes. 
We just sort of pull things together. We want this to 
be a place to try things out where not everything is 
polished.
Visiting 14 cities in two weeks, the group of seven film
makers from the Providence/Brown University area 
invited local artists to participate in each show. Former 
Movies With Live Soundtracks participants who have 
left the Providence area, along with film students 
from different cities, make the show different every 
night. Starting in Massachusetts, ending in Providence, 
and touring through Canada, Ohio, New York, and 
Pennsylvania, the group made a stop in Pittsburgh 
because of the citys sentiments toward filmmaking.
There is an amazing art and film scene here, which 
makes us feel very comfortable, said Marro.
The Thursday night show of 11 short films started with 
Claudia and the Chicken, a black and white film by Laura 
Rodriguez. Claudia, a very humorous guitar sing-along 
about a girl turning into a chicken when she became too 
shy around her romantic interests, began the line-up on 
a light note.
Local artist Greg Pierce followed with his film Operation 
Garden Plota looping reel of a telephone with German 
names on it set to fuzzy music which sometimes sound
ed sinister but otherwise was just noise. The audience 
clapped from relief when it ended and Home Movie 
From Lost Island began. This was an actual home 
movie shot by Carrie Colliers great aunt in 1962 on an
island that sank into the ocean after an earthquake in 
the Pacific Northwest. Following was Roll Jo Derrys 
animation about seeds dropping and rolling across the 
countryside. Set to harmonica, it was reminiscent of old 
childrens cartoons.
Tellechguulls was the next film, by Matt Brinkman. In 
this film, cute fuzzy creatures avoided peril in an alien 
cardboard world. This film actually had a developing 
plot, unlike many of the other films. The creature is 
chased by a monster, encounters cone-shaped aliens, 
and escapes the monster back in his cave. The accompa
nying keyboard and technical soundtrack lent emotion 
and made the film all the more amusing. Coonley made 
a film about baseball and the seventh inning stretch 
with a little Yankees/Red Sox rivalry tossed in: Win Loss 
Column. He started his narration by calling a friend and 
asking well-planned questions that coincided with what 
was on screen. He went into some history about the 
beginnings of the seventh inning stretch and the song 
Take Me Out to the Ball Game, which a little boy from 
the audience helped to sing while Coonley played the 
keyboard.
Jacob Ciocci, another Pittsburgh filmmaker, presented 
Paper Rad Video, which consisted of 80s television com
mercials and demented cat cartoons. 80s music and old 
home videos added to the eclectic mix.
Peter Glantz narrated his film about a cat who finds 
God ... among other things with the help of Marro. He 
introduced his movie by dressing up as the wizard who 
later appeared in the film. There was no real plot  it 
seemed like a page out of a dream where everything 
relates, but nothing really makes sense. The show ended 
with a film by Marro where everyone helped make the 
soundtrack. LEYE had cut-outs with real eyes behind 
them set to a jumbled mixture of instruments from all 
of the previous films.
To really appreciate the show, one would probably have 
to be a film major or really interested in cinematogra
phy. Otherwise most of the films just seem like trippy 
dream sequences. Some of them were funny, but others 
just seemed pointless. At least the laid-back atmosphere 
allowed the audience to have a little fun while they were 
there and join in on some welcome heckling.
6o.lps mo.pl 
mSo::UlrSpl
Lizza McGregor/Art Editor
Pillbox. 7 September 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Mi casa es su casa. 2 bedroom apartment in 
charming 1903 house, short block to Murray 
Avenue shops, buses. AC, off street parking, 
sparking clean, nice porch, big equipped kitchenm 
laundry, small pets allowed, can be furnished, 
negotiable lease. $625 plus utilities; References 
412.422.5189
4 bedroom apartment $950 per month plus 
gas and electric, free laundry, walk to cam
pus, new carpets, huge room. 412.681.1138 or 
gvaux@mindspring.com
Help needed around house. Short walk from 
campus. Up to 10 hours per week. Flexible. 
412.802.7070. Please leave message.
3 bedroom 2 bath Squirrel Hill apartment. 
Convenient to universities, busway, parkway, and 
shopping. $800 plus utilities. 412.421.3051
Squirrel Hill house for rent. New paint, equipped 
kitchen, washer & dryer, dishwasher, garage. Attic 
for office and basement for storage. See pictures 
on the web at www.skrents.com; near CMU. 
$1195+. 412.657.5387
OPPORTUNITIES.
Hiring cashiers, pepperoni roll makers, and town 
criers in Pittsburgh's Strip District. /McKees Rocks 
Bread Company/ by Mancinis Bakery. Flexible 
hours, great pay. 412.765.3545
i iPrinceton
University
Bendheim Center for Finance
Master in Finance
This degree, designed to be completed in a minimum of two 
semesters, prepares for a wide range of careers in the financial industry, 
including financial engineering, risk management and quantitative 
trading, quantitative asset management and financial forecasting.
PRINCETON'S MASTER 
IN FINANCE PROVIDES:
A rigorous core curriculum, 
a wide range of elective courses 
and extensive career assistance
Applications for enrollment in September 2005 
are due by January 2, 2005 (December 2, 2004 
for candidates residing outside of North America).
Wanted: Female secretary and companion to 
elderly person. 5 day weeks. 3-4 hours per day. 
$12 per house. 412.420.3350
Spring Break 2005. Travel with STS, Americas 
#1 Student Tour Operator to Jamaica, Cancn, 
Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring oncampus reps. Call for group discounts. Information/ 
Reservations 1*800-648-4849 or www.ststravel. 
com.
Recruiting 18-24 year old males and females to 
serve as peer educators who will be trained to 
present sexuality education programs to teens 
throughout Allegheny County. No previous expe
rience necessary. Paid training. Day/evening/ 
weekend hours available. Possible internship 
opportunities. Excellent oppor
tunity to gain health education 
experiecne. Public speaking 
skills desired. Valid PA Drivers 
license preferred. For more 
information regarding this posi
tion please call 412.288.9960 
or 412.288.2140 and ask for 
Angelica.
For detailed information see:
http://vwvw.princefon.edu/'bcf
All cash vending route for 
sale. 50 high traffic locations. 
$36,000 annual income. Cost 
$5000. 800.568.1392 or www. 
vendingthatworks.com
CLASSIFIED ADS
are available at the following 
weekly rates:
1-20 words: $10 
21-50 words: $12 
51-80 words: $15
Ads for Carnegie Mellon students and for 
services to the community are gratis at 
The Tartan's discretion.
To place an ad, send the full text of the ad 
and the advertisers name, address, and 
phone number to:
 E-mail: advertising@thetartan.org
 Postal mail:
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh PA 15289-1017
 Fax: 412.268.1596
Ads will be billed after each run.
Ail classified ads must be submitted by 
5 pm on the Thursday before publication.
Want to help us out by 
finding fault in others 
work?
Send inquiry to:
copy@thetartan. org
Join Tartan Copy
minn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI

---------------------------------------------------

comics.
Giant Robot Comic by Zachary Beard
HOROSCOPES
BY DINAH WINNICK
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): Don't worry. You can live just fine with 
one kidney, and at least youll get to spend a nice 45 minutes with a 
pretty lady before you pass out cold on the hotels smelly salmon-col
ored shag carpet.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): It may not be love between the two of 
you, but the INS has made darn sure theres a need and thats a good 
first step.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): When Suzie says you are an ass, she isn't referring to your 
impressive carrying capacity or the great company you could provide on long, romantic 
hikes through the dreamy southwestern desert sand and rock formations.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): No matter what they say, someone somewhere in the world 
with a slightly more open and creative sense of physical beauty thinks youre attractive. 
Not funny, maybe, but attractive.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): It may not seem impressive to you, but David's family's vast 
jumping-bean empire is still an empire, and theres power in that.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): You should be giddy with anticipation. Sanitation 
workers make great money and drive cars way cooler than your Civic.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): You may not have a face for film, but once you get 
rid of that lisp, you'll be a great bingo caller, and with practice could even work your way 
into doing low-budget foreign language commercial voice-overs.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): Its okay. Hell may be hot and overcrowded, but 
so is California.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): Well technically, your former stepdads 
children from his fifth marriage aren't related to you. So it may get you disowned, but you 
would need two sets of weird recessive genes for any serious threats to offspring and you 
were already out of your parents' wills anyway.WTF! II by Jon Brodsky and Josh Atlas
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): Watch out! Tax evasion may not be deadly, but 
it could make you a Canadian.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Ninja Turtles are great role models, but your 
street-fighting superhero outfit should probably include more than just a mask seeing as 
only real turtles, not just people with heartfelt Turtle Power, can legally do their crimefighting naked.HN So WaTHi
FAA/r/tsric.  Pirone. 
T'Ha mse/tf/v'y\t> fjw yer rwe Mv, /rr J/f/KW
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Can you Can-Can?
The Saurus by Bill BernsteinCommunity Comics by Pauly
e-TlME Cmn I I DRjNHftSO MUCtt Pl&T" I..JH-----ftfowe. TiMC TrtftT  F-L
r P0rJ'r Ct-loo OM DgfC 1 I ^U6itn,y \ Lt-I \ SoK-enMES 1 Bour \\ r------------ -----5 ---------\u 1 ^Sqomp -t-msioM ? 0
hjoul'^ thccf"dinamowr'
FRREHIffeovl abstract -f Ho yak.
YavYif Ilave bitumd / rl rLUU2L04m d S. ueryloody s'teODDftWN/ 
\ CftBROM 
fKemCybv
M KWT*UW< S<3 31
Thmvz ft* his 
G/$s/C novtl about *e* v eri wewr dm -me CFfgcTSU&FR.M &.OTC NEVO ajf2.se.\jOOpc, gsj PU] jfviSXO*
14Ainn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI

---------------------------------------------------

Xword
jobs@ dehas w. coahm inhtthbPn
ACROSSDOWN
1Tom Hanks movie a about failed space mis2First planet colonized by man.
sion.3Inhabitants of the Endor moon.
3Jean-Luc Picard captains the4Alien who was best friends with Han Solo.
8The Milkv Wav is a galaxv.5Spaceship the Rebel Alliance fighters fly.
10First American woman in outer space.6Armored space station built by the
12The sun is million miles from theEmperor.
earth.7Constellation named after mythological
15Spaceship that the Imperial fighters fly.Greek hunter.
16Aliens name in K-Pax.9Furry alien who had his own sitcom when
18Married to Mindy.you were a kid.
19Neptunes color.11Not Armageddon, but the other movie
21The second-to-last planet from the sun.about an asteroid.
22The computers name in 2001: A Space13Frys crab-like alien doctor.
Odyssey.14Mv other car is the
23This planet is named after Zeus Roman17Space station commanded by Captain
counterpart.Sisko.
24The Scottish chief engineer on Star Trek.20Alien who made friends with Elliott.
26The Wrath of25The red planet.
29First to propose that the Earth revolves27Circular portal that transports you to dif
around the sun.ferent worlds.
30Russian space station.28Plutos moon.
32Half-alien who was science officer for31We are . You will be assimilated.
Captain Kirk.0
33First American astronaut to orbit the earth.
34The Will Smith movie about an alien inva
sion.
^ txA sceeAkwos we veco; Cr/n/cM
Gt45oSocob reseoidh co^ Ve^a?3^o^3 V,r^3 notVSo -ft W?S>'F'ov\eso-\tolwtiteer fcr&foS \pv\S,eexy c&Ao v^bKc oeyticfe-'ftieAj^yFOg?.
>oot^\te5i*'fAer fNot'Ms.^beeparhiehV
Ua'PT OS eTCaeeMUa  OfA A eMeWtN
arrived sasii -^eir wS\y Victory,oH^e 
Veo 2yoj-tess ci-tyeVvfcstefrv Y' fsyWo, 
CTeoJosio Sotiety. Tfe* colled ,o>, 
\Modescs.Vte'ywi church VsW-ies, 
ce^os receefe iMfu^ofton IvsV* -^W-xtfc&cK W^es c years _____________
/WVoll Me \Wo**e N*iv&, VeV'^V* ^^eia^cver ^OX)
itvjy Weswt* od| overcounty <wd w wVvpressiveowy o^bstt, IM W Sts 
\ec&ves ^o^ypco.\^e.
ff1
Pittsburgh Stories by Eli Pousson
TKe?i feWraViPKoteacoiUt library c.oNfevit'S oiw Bo,ooOpnriHivx ^ppcVi\,^oceoN_;laiioT><-tte vOorY. oVseJeTol O3\\ec\ior*. TVee TksWres Jvoue Va' Polish HiUi Niluir^ SiftWeserties at' A*v4rtvv Carrie.
"TVe^e-V^u^S co*' pi T<Arc>Me<A  o-SFdl tu\ are al fucS'taw^'teei -fe fee&MsHW 
TCMvtxer (S vM4e ^feN\s^ von* ^W^Vs -\o oVfer._______________________________
3'addW bcote<wyi
r'ewsY^ers.-frereiso.sr-'oil co|fcdoi> of Movies rtxe > bOMi or curd PHijbt/rsV.,
!\c)wr&Ni^ <FHe UviroS>o,d a%\,Vorer ^>ys and-^e Maty iwdyjir^ii^WQtfr AymerAos es.Welcome to the Comics Section!
I hope that you enjoy the works of art and 
writing that we have presented in this 
week's Tartan. I believe that comics are 
an incredible medium that can communi
cate effectively to people of all ages. As a 
student newspaper we have a wonderful 
opportunity to experiment with the form 
and provide alternatives to conventional 
newspaper comics. Feedback from our 
readers is also very important to help us 
meet the needs of the whole community.
If you are interested in creating comics, 
working independently, working in collabo
ration with an artist or a writer, or helping 
us through feedback please contact me at 
comics@thetartan.org.
Eli Pousson 
Comics Editor
Ainn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFO15

---------------------------------------------------

normes.
duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
o
Fernando was the picture of perfect health. No other duck could 
paddle as fast through the cool, greenish water of Whites Pond. No 
other ducks feathers glistened as brightly. No other duck could flex 
his wings with as much grace. So when Fernando began having hor
rible cramps in his belly, he knew it couldnt be because something 
was wrong with his digestive system. Instead, he blamed the old 
lady that came by the pond every day at lunchtime. He knew it was those stale bread 
crumbs that were making him sick. Sometimes the crumbs would hit him in the head 
and become lodged in his feathers. Fernando had always thought it was just failing 
eyesight or poor aim, but he knew now that the old woman had it out for him. Her 
flower-printed polyester house coats should have been a dead giveaway to her devilry. 
Fernando was convinced that the old lady was methodically trying to eradicate him, but 
how could he prove it?
Tyler and Fred by Greg Prichard
Tiny Sepuku by tinysepuku@hotmail.com
gbCf 9rsuH
lr SECM5 IK Evtfiv TiM I ffiLL 
Fofi. A GOY/ X Fl^ Our i-ATCR 
HAS A S]ftlF*l6ND. WHY 
ALL THE oot> Gl/rs TAKEN?
"J
5.t.0vC4
c
C7 SI6HThat 6/*l 
^ IS So LUCKY 
To HAve
 V * (
ABSoi-ureLr
^ 0? PfRFfCT.'
*
1 (U NfcVtft GoiA/<3 
c & To FinD A Gur 
LIP THAT.
V I
AC. OF rWE ^
c? ''6ooD PP<-'' 
v Afte ARe.^or 
^ <s? rAii-N.
# wetL, war ALL
v t: 9wpIe Ft. lp 
At? ^ aSrhh Sw<sue.
Memebs TiNYSef
OH, T HAT j 
e & SUttT. 
v ffWHcs.
V 1
UKV, CotA WRlTf.TlMYEP
y/HY CANr I f/ND 
A Ci;r To Tfi-L 
* Iy sri^fF hr8pe
^ V , thatP
v mr7Ve 
& f 
KO0HPTMAlL.CoM
Campus Celebrities by Lisa Troutman
Comics Trivia Question:
Submit your ideas for a 
comic trivia question to 
comics@thetartan.org
Q: What does gold 
kryptonite do to 
Kryptonians?
Write 
comics@thetartan.org 
and get a chance to win 
a pass to this weeks AB 
Films!
minn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI
11:45 by Ed Ryan
WTF! I by Jon Brodsky and Josh Atlas
ft*
I io ^or
wo A&y/ u/<s
erf ^ Md I
Os rock^Af;
Handface and You by Yann Seznec
THe tumd//j rlLU 20u4 
STARTED, So AT THE 
RISK OF CONFUVNGTHE 
mew kids, wf're <3omn*
Hnve To RELY 
LAST VEA*<S CREAM OPTrte
. WOODM BACKPACK <iay KKiO.,.
butmor'fc (Xarcofe
ducf+ape,(V\ayV>a
definiKty ply Hood
c os/XL/.w aoL' P/Tl OSid ount._______________Uxtix mM

---------------------------------------------------

| subversive parenting
notes from a stay at home dad
IT WARMS MY HEART TO SEE MY HARDEARNED GRANT MONEY SPENT LIKE THIS.
l.. IDIDITi I'M JHORIZONTAL! v*--->MIKE, I DID ITI mike?
REMEMBER, YOU GOTTA ] LET IT ALL GO. FEAR, J DOUBT, RESEARCH...
' FOCUS/
www.phdcomics. com
WWW.phdcorrHC&.com
PATIENCE, GRASS. HOPPER.
OK, NOW LEAN BACK SLOWLY..pf EXCUSEME, YOURE IN VMY CHAIR...>
NOW STOP GOOF WG AROUND AND GET BACK TO WORKi .THAT'S IT. I GIVE UP.
UUuJ.DhclcomitA.tmWWW.pComiC6.Com
YOU MEAN, COME TO TERMS WITH MY INNER STRUGGLES AND ACHIEVE INNER PEACE?
NO, AS IN EMPTY > MIND, FULL STOMACH" CAN YOU GET US J SOME GRUB? /
TO ACHIEVE NAPWORTHY OFFICE CHAIR k BALANCE. YOU MUST V FIRST ACHIEVE BALANCE WITHIN.
ARE YOU PRESENTING? >
HEYilDIDNT KNOW YOU WERE COMING TO THIS CONFERENCE/ s
YEAH. I GOT WHAT YOU NEED. 4>2.. A HIT. >WELL
WWW.phdcomi c6.comwww.phdcomic&.com
OykeS TW{ch Oxtfbr by Alison BecWel
tgom^HSRE IN THEgtOGOJSPHEREcoo 4sXwacAreyoe post? are
WE WIRED, OR 
WHAT? .
GOD, ITS *#<lNG 
INCREDIBLE? .LET'S CALL LOIS 
FORA ARCH 
UPDATE?
mun?
COiSf ne AGAIN. HOWS irGOING?I About Mep 8.29.04 | virtually active
| Jiao Raize! arid I are canning tomato 
| sauce and watching the RNC protest on 
| C-SPAN, listeningtP the rally on stream| ing radio, and monitoring the indymedia i site for breaking news. Wish I was there 
| with my housemate Lois, but this is 
| alrnost better because Im getting my 
| canning done at the same time.Name: Stuart 
Goodman Inntinn......
THIS tS WHAT DEMOCRACY 
LOOKS UKB/.
r said... HEy, hold u. your 
PHONE so r CAN CHAtfT ALONG 
witH Th crowd for, a second.
r know/ Hey, iy nrtyful.the re are
RIOT COPS ADVANCING ON THE MOUSE.-----. BLOC ACTION INT|f^5 SODARE,
STO, r CANT 
HEAP->OU AT 
ALL. ^
WHAT?Inu'cle-arj
5UPP0RT TUfTftQOR I vblt BIM 
1 our/ZTgut MVW CEMcC/^y 
. LOOKS 'PN/
vsM
WoW. rCAN SENSE 
THE ELCTR|CIT/ IN 
THE ATMPSPHEKEf 3TFE.SO...
www.
minn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI17

---------------------------------------------------

_comics.
Comickaze:
^ tetmioamtov' ovrtmexiummM. WTSCQ >
*TOMSfimana*>THKr>m, Sfaesumi IM------------gt< wre? ,
\7tMUBf ^
WM.G&?uxmm
, UMH? A
Image courtesy of Fantagraphics
Maggie calls in some help with a crisis.
Comics You Should Have Read by
For better or worse, manga has become the indisputable 
Zeitgeist of popular comics. Even here at the univer
sity, desk hutches inevitably lined with the familiar homo
geneous runs of little Tokyo Pop books. Admittedly, 
groundbreaking graphic work came from Japan between 
the late 70s and early 90s just as the speculation bubble 
for comics grew here in America. However, the crash in 
both markets that virtually annihilated American comics 
did not have the same effect overseas. Instead, the Asian 
market is now bloated with bland, low-budget, superficial 
crap substituting for the substance of its forebears, which 
American readers eat up with a disturbing fervor that 
threatens to overshadow our own comics rich history and 
promise.
What a travesty! Henceforth, I shall devote Comickaze 
to the singular purpose of revitalizing the fading gems 
of comic history. Read these titles and their forerunners 
before they are lost! Share them with your friends! Only 
you can revitalize a market poisoned by redundant sentai memes! (Sentai is Japanese slang for superhero, but 
also connotes series like Power Rangers in which every 
episode repeats the same story.) Join the resistance!
Over 20 years ago, in July 1982, Fantagraphics Publishing 
released the first issue of Love and Rockets, a masterpiece 
among comics by the Hernandez brothers: Jaime, Gilbert, 
Beto, and Mario. Fantagraphics had established itself as a 
publisher of hot, new, independent comics in the late sev
enties by carrying R. Crumbs Fritz the Cat, Harvey Pekars 
American Splendor and numerous other edgy titles. As the 
story goes, the head of Fantagraphics, Gary Groth, a man 
possessed of utter contempt for mainstream comics, came 
across the Hernandez brothers homemade books while 
considering drawing his own. He immediately signed 
them up for national distribution. They achieved overnight 
success, most due to Jaime and Gilberts ongoing dramas.
Jaime Hernandezs story, Mechanix (later changed to 
Locos'), can be described superficially as a teen drama in 
the spirit of John Goldwaters original 1939 classic Archie. 
Jaimes characters, however, confront deeper issues such 
as confused sexuality, Mexican identity, gang culture, 
poverty, and the 80s punk revolution. Set in Hoppers, 
California, the main characters  Maggie, the only girl 
mechanic, and her best friend/lover Hopey Glass, a starv
ing bass player  find the mundane aspects of their lives 
suddenly shot through with surreal fantasy elements. The 
story is so well received, even today, that an episode was 
featured in this years McSweeneys Quarterly Concern, the 
definitive anthology of contemporary independent com
ics.
In a different vein, Gilbert Hernandezs Palomar is not so 
much a character-driven drama, but rather one centered 
on the Mexican town of Palomar and its sizable array of
18------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now
characters. The stories are sampled from throughout a 
period of many decades. The position of main heroine, 
however, easily falls to the large-breasted Luba, who 
finds herself involved in practically all of the interwoven 
plots. The comic was groundbreaking, to say the least, in 
its representation of Latino culture. Recently, however, 
Gilbert has laid Palomar to rest, and begun writing a new 
epic, Julios Day, which explores the dynamics within one 
Mexican family.
The effect on the mainstream triggered by Mechanix, 
Palomar, and the other stories in Love and Rockets, as 
well as comics inspired by them, cannot be understated. 
Firstly, their activist themes echoed in the popular sphere 
of comics. Chris Claremont, for example, successfully 
reinvented the stale X-Men in the same decade by taking 
a more sophisticated approach to multiculturalism than 
the Rainbow Teams of the 70s. In addition, the taboo on 
discussing homosexuality in comics shattered, opening the 
door for other innovators to broach the subject like Niel 
Gaimans character Fox in The Sandman. Most important
ly, though, Love and Rockets in particular unlocked comic 
books for women and feminism.
Love and Rockets was a point of entry for women readers 
in the 1980s, says Tim Blackmore, an assistant profes
sor of information and media studies at the University 
of Western Ontario. The story contained very appealing 
characters to women. It was not your typical male power 
fantasy.
Just a short year ago, the Hernandez brothers got back 
together to release a new wave of comics under the title 
Love and Rockets Vol. 2. The double-length tenth issue 
was one of the hottest items in comics this summer. 
Jaime brought to a conclusion his most recent episode of 
Locas, the climax of a story in which the stress of divorce, 
middle-aged life, and taking care of her mentally ill friend 
Izzy had brought Maggie to the brink of a nervous break
down. Gilbert continues strong, also, setting Julios family 
against the backdrop of World Wars I and II. Most surpris
ing, however, is the showering of short stories from Beto, 
whom I always thought was the unsung hero of the early 
Love and Rockets.
Although most readers still look no further than the 
manga adaptations of Cartoon Network programs to fill 
their appetites for comics, Love and Rockets is a beautiful 
comic that can still surprise readers with amazing vitality. 
Even more surprising, however, is the continued timeless
ness of its early stories: 20 years old, but still riding the 
wave of the avant-garde.
io2 5o.::Ios 
ftIr1a mSo::
Ainn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI
Image courtesy of Fantagraphic
The cover of Love and Rockets Issue No.l.
HOflEWWtOT' } tX>

---------------------------------------------------

TU ES DAY 7-
Punk Rock Night at Margaritaville.
Anarchy in the 1C. 9:30 pm. 2200 E. Carson St. 412.431.2200.
Games Night.
Squirrel Hill Caf. 9 pm. 5802 Forbes Ave. 412.521.3327.
WEDNESDAY 8.
Girls Night Out: Cosmos, Massages and Manicures.
5 pm-12 am. Bossa Nova, 123 Seventh St. 412.232.3030.
Keith Carter: Poet of the Ordinary
12 pm-5 pm. Silver Eye Center for Photography. 1015 E. Carson St. 
412.431.1810.
Sports Bike Night
Sportz Rock Caf. 8 pm-2 pm. 1400 Smallman St. 412.552.1000.
Chris Heinz at McConomy.
12:15 pm1:15 pm. Limited space. Tickets required.
THURSDAY 9.
Opening Reception at Center for the Arts.
James Duesing and Adam Sipe.
5:30 pm-8 pm. 6300 5th Ave. 412.361.0873.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Bach, Haydn, Mozart and Schubert. Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts. 
600 Penn Ave. 412.392.4900.
Salsa Dance Lessons
Dowes on 9th. 8:30 pm9:30 pm. 121 Ninth St. 412.281.9225. 
7-Up and Elysium.
9 pm-2 am. Venue: Chemistry. $5. Digital DJ sound. 412.904.2205.
SATURDAY 11.
Oakland Raiders vs. Pittsburgh Steelers.
Heinz Field. 1pm. 100 Art Rooney Ave. 412.323.1200.
Drive by Truckers.
Mr. Smalls Funhouse. 8 pm. 400 Lincoln Ave., Millvale, PA 15209. 
412.821.4447.
Salsa Dancing.
Club Havana. 7 pm-Close. Cost: $5. Lesson for beginners, 7 pm.
5744 Ellsworth Ave. 412.661.2025.
Red Ripe and Roasted: Tomato and Garlic Festival.
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens. llam-4pm. FreetoCMU 
students with student ID. 1 Schenley Park. 412.622.6914.
SUNDAY 12.
Murals Tour.
Bike on the Art Side. 10 am. Tickets $10-25.
Relay for Life Team.
General Participants meeting. University Center, Rangos 3. 6 pm.
Mexican War Streets House & Garden Tour.
North Side. Self-guided tour of 20 historic homes and gardens. 
412.323.9030.
MONDAY 13.
The Melvins.
Mr. Smalls Funhouse. 8 pm. Tickets $14-16. Contact Lex at 
412.821.0472.
ONGOING
FRIDAY 10.
Ani DiFranco.
Palace Theatre for the Performing Arts. 8 pm. 21 W. Otterman St., 
Greensburg, PA 15601. 724.836.8000.
Felix de Concha.
Point Breeze. 10 am-5 pm. Free at the Frick Art and Historical Center.
Skydive Pennsylvania.
Sept. 6 - Oct. 31. 9 am-6 pm. Cost: $93-198. 496 Old Ash 
Road, Mercer, PA 16137. 800.909.5867.
Keith Carter: Poet of the Ordinary.
Sept. 8 - Sept. 11. Noon-5 pm. Silver Eye Center for 
Photography. 1015 E. Carson St. 412.431.1810.

VOX
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF DRUNKS...OR NOT! 
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.
Send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
iS
A (p & & <> & 
. %, ^&
Kd
\'^s
iiPl
o*
 
  JO
**0 a,Zrp

7 O <U
O' _ 
UJ
'S *-U
0 >
IZ Z-J UJ
1 > 
O XVA
UJ Q111U_ Z 
- <
of
GU
XLU
o Z
X
z ..
Q 
< oX j
z
VA
f
oX
VA
z
UJ
>UJ
VA
/*UJ
VA
UJ 
VA
oX UIO
I

%
*>
Myfain died imparity.
minn35BI ? toASoU3oT EFFOI

---------------------------------------------------

Apparently its easy being green: Junior Andy Butler struts his stuff during House Wars 
last month. This years champions were the blue-emblazoned members of Donner House. Morewood 
Gardens came in second, with New House and Hamerschlag tying for third and fourth.
