The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 4
V-12 Starts July 1st; 
Many Techites Go To 
Yale and Rensselaer
Those students who are at present 
enrolled in the Naval Reserves V-l 
and V-7 are being ordered to active 
duty on July 1, 1943. For most 
of them the call means the transfer 
to other colleges and universities. 
An Accredited College Program 
known as V-12 will include the Re
serves V-l and V-7 which were clos
ed to further enlistment in Pitts
burgh last March.
Of the one-hundred-odd Naval 
Reservists who were in Tech last 
semester, there are less than twenty 
now in school. Most of the others 
are home awaiting their orders or 
working in industries until being 
called to active duty. Of the scores 
of men now in school many are be
ing sent to Yale University in New 
Haven, Connecticut. Some of the 
others are ordered to Renselaer 
Polytechic Institute in Troy, New 
York.
Each reservist will attend his re
spective institution for three or 
more semesters depending upon his 
classification and his ability. The 
Navy provides these sailor students 
with board, room, equipment, and 
fifty dollars a month. The equip
ment includes that which is general
ly issued to an inductee plus books 
and other supplies necessary to his 
education.
Included in the course of study 
will be engineering subjects related 
to the course the student previous
ly took and some Navy subjects 
such as navigation. Upon comple
tion of the course, the students will 
be sent to Midshipmens school 
where they will qualify for Ensign 
commissions as Deck Officers, Sup
ply Officers, Engineering Officers, 
and Engineering Specialists.
In addition to the V-l and V-l 
Reserves, many Tech students are 
now awaiting orders in V-5, a re
serve for potential Naval Air 
Cadets. They also receive school
ing at universities under the Navy 
College Program.
New Hours For Library
Evening use of the branch li
braries throughout the last year 
was so slight that they will be clos
ed at 5 P. M. in the future.
If longer hours are needed, how
ever they will be secured, since the 
purpose of the shorter hours is not 
to deprive the students or faculty of 
desirable service.
For the remainder of the present 
semester, the library will be open
9 A. M. to 9 P. M. Mondays through 
Fridays and 9 A. M. to 5 P. M. on 
Saturdays.
Notice
Important TARTAN staff meeting 
in the office on Friday, June 18, at five 
oclock. All members of the staff 
must be present.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF
SaludoA. Amia&L
Carnegie Techs Fame 
I Spreads To Colombia %
Dean Beryl E. Warden recently 
received a letter from South Amer
ica, the contents and nature of 
which are both highly significant 
and of interest to us here at Car
negie. The letter was written by Dr. 
Lazaro Patino of Colombia, and 
concerned the admission of Dr. Pa
tinos son, Robert, as a student at 
Tech. Dr. Patino wrote that he had 
once taken post-graduate courses in 
this country and now wants his 
children to be educated here. With 
this in mind, he had sent his eldest 
soi\ Edgarde to the University of 
Pittsburgh to study Petroleum En
gineering. Edgarde returned home 
with a high regard for Carnegie, and 
this opinion, coupled with Dr. Pa
tinos own respect for Tech and for 
American educational methods mo
tivated the Doctor to choose our 
school for Roberts education. Rob
ert, as described in his fathers let
ter, is strong, intelligent, possessing 
high morals, although shy. He 
wishes to study Chemical Engineer
ing.
If one reads between the lines of 
Dr. Patinos letter, he can easily 
realize its true significance. It is in
deed a fine tribute to Carnegie Tech 
that its reputation is so widespread. 
Here we have a South American fa
ther wishing to send his son thou
sands of miles to a foreign country, 
to a different climate, among differ
ent people speaking a different 
tongue, so that he might further his 
education. We should feel proud 
that this discerning father has 
chosen Carnegie Tech as a school 
worthy of his efforts to educate his 
son.
Dr. Patinos letter is also signif
icant in the light of our effort to in
crease good will in the Western 
Hemisphere. It is not enough for 
the people of the Americas to be 
military allies; there must likewise 
be a free exchange of cultural 
views. Robert Patinos matricula
tion at Carnegie is symbolic of this 
intermingling of ideas. Robert will 
be welcomed at Carnegie, not only 
as a fellow students, but as a sym
bol of Pan-American solidarity as 
well.
Everybody Sing!
Every Tuesday evening at 6:30, 
all students and soldiers are urged 
to participate in an All-School Sing 
in Sylvan Theater. The first Sing 
was held last week and proved most 
successful.
Sponsored by YMCA, these affairs 
feature popular songs, and the 
group is led by Bert Mustin, a grad
uate of Tech. YMCA is planning to 
have a guest soloist this week, and 
each week will feature different 
musical groups on campus such as 
Womens Glee Club and the Sol
diers Glee Club. Everybody out 
tonight for a pleasant musical hour!
HNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Dr. Doherty Organizes 
Student Committee
President Robert E. Doherty, in 
line with his policy of keeping in 
touch with student activities, prob
lems, and opinions, has organized a 
Student Conference Committee for 
the Summer Semester. The commit
tee, which includes eleven of the 
most influential students on cam
pus, is to meet with the President 
for an informal discussion. The first 
meeting will be held on Tuesday 
evening, June 15, at six oclock in 
the P. A. A. dining room.
The Committee includes: Eliza
beth A. Beall, Secretary of ArmyCivilian Activities Council; Pvt. M. 
Berkowitz, Pvt. H. R. Ford, Pvt. 
Lawrence Futchik, A. S. T. P. rep
resentatives; George I. Galousis, , 
President of Citcom Clan; Thalia J. 
Harmany, Editor of The Carnegie 
Tartan; Mr. John Lindberg, Pres
ident of Tau Beta Pi; Mr. S. W. Marsinizyn, Evening Student Council; 
Mr. Robert Noyes, Editor of The 
Carnegie Technical; Miss Dorothy 
Schadel, President of Student Gov
ernment Association, M. M. C. C.; 
and Miss Marie Sunseri, President 
of Intersorority Council.
New C Book On Sale; 
ASTP Members Listed
A new C Book, Carnegie Tech 
Student Directory, was put on sale 
last Thursday at the book store at 
25c a copy. It is the first joint ArmyStudent Directory in all nineteen 
years of C Book publication. Be
sides listing the 600 mens names, it 
includes the regular listing of or
ganizations.
As usual, the C Book shows that 
Carnegie Tech students come from 
all over the Western hemisphere. 
However, a scrutiny of the army 
section shows that while the sol
diers come from many varied loca
tions, a good majority come from 
Brooklyn.
In lieu of the absence of a TriPublications staff, the general com
piling of the directory fell to Miss 
Ellenor Tallmadge of the Carnegie 
Tech News Bureau. She was also 
ably assisted, to a small extent, by 
several members of the TARTAN 
staff.
Incoming freshmen, upperclass
men, and the soldiers should secure 
a copy of the C Book, as its list
ing of the names and addresses of all 
students on campus facilitates the 
contacting of fellow Techites.
Collect Your Records
ASTP students have advised us 
that their record supply is meager 
If anyone has records which are not 
being used, they are urged to donate 
them to the ASTP.
Bring your records to the Dorm 
Office in Welch Hall or the Military 
Office in Industries Hall.
TUESDAY, JUNE 15, 1943
Dance Features 
44All-Tech Band
Gingold Will Play 
For Starlit Hour
Mike Gingolds All Tech or
chestra will provide the music for 
the Starlit Hour, the first all-school 
summer dance. It will be held in the 
gym this Saturday. Tickets will be 
sold in Administration Hall Tues
day through Friday between 12 
noon and one oclock.
Mike Gingolds all-star band is 
made up of both Tech civilian and 
A. S. T. P. students, among whom 
are several men with extensive pro
fessional training. Cadet Gingold, 
who has played the piano for such 
nationally famous bands as Johnny 
Long and Johnny Martin, announc
ed that he would feature a swing 
quartet called the Tech Grena
diers composed of piano, drum, 
trumpet and clarinet.
Among his more widely known 
musicians, Music Maker Mike 
presents Bob Brunet, trumpet play
er from St. Paul, Minnesota; drum
mer Bill Kleefield, who has been 
playing in Ohio bands for the past 
fourteen years; Herb Savage, trumpeteeer from Hutchison, Kansas 
with several years experience; and 
vocalist Jim Gylland, who sang for 
six years on radio station WDSM 
in Superior, Wisconsin. When ask
ed where he has sung, Jim said that 
he has had experience in all 
branches of singing from church 
choirs to barroom dance bands.
Miss Mary Ann Rial, chairman of 
the dance, is still working out plans 
for decoration. Those aiding Miss 
Rial include C. Lewis Sarosdy, 
chairman of the decorations com
mittee, Rebecca Townsend, public
ity committee, and Eloise Nettleton, 
chaperons.
The dance orchestra will be prac
ticing every Sunday afternoon in 
Thistle Hall and all students are in
vited by the Army-Civilian dance 
band to attend free of charge.
YMCA, CWCA Announce 
Religious Activities
Carnegies Christian organiza
tions, YMCA and CWCA, have an
nounced a series of religious activi
ties. CWCAs first big summer 
meeting will be in the form of a 
picnic scheduled for four oclock to
day in Schenley Park Reverend 
George Peters, assistant minister of 
the East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church, will deliver an address en
titled Creating or Restoring. Fol
lowing Reverend Peters talk, the 
formal meeting will end. The price 
of admission will be 35c per person.
The two organizations are also 
sponsoring weekly chapel services 
which are held every Sunday after
noon from five to five-thirty in 
either the Sylvan or inside Theatre 
A list of interesting speakers has 
been prepared for future services, 
and it has been planned to have 
hymn sings after the addresses.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 15, 1943
CdLtcVbL A*unoUai>i --------------------------------------------
The Class of 44-X
They are called the Class of 44-X because when they were filling out 
some forms once they were told to place an X after the year they were 
to have graduated. They didnt quite make the grade to commencement, 
those men of 44-X; they got just far enough to see the end of the trail, then 
a strip of khaki obliterated their view. All the digging and scraping for 
money to go through on, all the burning nights of study, the worry, the 
headaches, all gone now. Between two and three thousand dollars and 
three years lost when the reservists were called out of college. Thus the 
fate of the Class of 44-X. *
We Have Our Duty
Uncle Sam missed us in that call to arms. But that is no sign that 
we have no duties toward our fellow-citizens, both of our country and of 
the world. We cant buy war bonds, we arent facing bullets and shells, we 
arent making ships and planes and the other accessories of modern war
fare, but we hold the weapon of ultimate victory in the reason we are 
herenamely, education. We are training to be the technologists and en
gineers of tomorrow. Our generation will have the job of making peace 
out of chaos and bringing the nations into better harmony. Our parts in 
that will vary depending on our interest in social activity, but the least 
any of us will do will be to design and make the machines for the new order 
of peace, if such an order ever comes into existence.
One of the best things we could do for the Class of 44-X would be to 
think ahead, to tomorrow and the kind of world we want to live in; we 
must consider how peace may be made a lasting condition and plan ac
cordingly. We must decide now, each one of us, just what place we want in 
the post-war world. Then we must plan what we are going to do in that 
place.
As a suggestion, we might consider increasing the scale of such beau
tiful friendships as exists between our nation and Mexico and Canada to 
such a point that the European nations would maintain the same high 
level of national friendship among themselves and with us. We know that 
at present these nations are constantly ready to slit each others throats, 
but we were that way with Canada and Mexico once, too. Dont let things 
like that discourage you.
Perhaps if we could bring Europe closer to our own ways, at least in 
knowledge of our attitudes, the influence would be a factor in reducing 
the danger of intermittent world wars. Certainly any such contact as this 
would require that more Europeans come into contact with more Ameri
cans (and by Americans we mean Canadians, Mexicans, and the other 
Americans besides our own nationality); such contacts are purely physical, 
and the answer would be primarily technologicala problem for engineers 
such as we are. The problem in this case would be to put vacation-trips 
between the Americas, Europe and Asia within financial reach of every 
one of average meansthe average world citizen.
Do Some Thinking
Here we have enumerated one possible problem to overcome in bring
ing about a peaceful world. Perhaps it suggests other problems. Or maybe 
some reader can think up some other problem in connection with what en
gineers can do for a world of peace. Or perhaps you are a woman who nat
urally is wondering what her place will beand what place her children 
will hold in a world going away from the chaos of intermittent wars. Who
ever you are, whatever you are or may be, it is time you start to make the 
struggle of the Class of 44-X worth while. The least you can do is think 
for yourself.
Consider it well, Techites. The Class of 44-X had no chance to, but 
we do. Will we make another farce for a peace like Versailles? Or will we 
build a peaceful world? It is up to you.
W. D.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
one of the girls
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MPMHNTIO rod NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publisher* Representative 
420 Madison Avi. New York. n. Y.
Boston  Los Aimclcs  Sam Fsabcisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief...........................HL 7093
Business Manager.......................SC. 8951
Entered at secon#*ciass matter In tbe Pittsburgh Post Office ander the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-In-Chief.....................................................................................................!.T. J. Harmany
Business Manager ............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors................................................................Helena Aronson, Walt Darby
Sports Editor.............................................................................................................John Lindberg
Asst. Business Manager................................................................................................Merle Wolff
Advertising Manager ........................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation..............................................................................................................Chester Feinberg
Junior Editors___Aron Beck, Marty Gross, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb
Sports Staff ............................... Al Neleson, Chuck Peterson, Bill Perkins, Joe Dogan
Business Staff...................Bob Charpie, Ed Von Halle, John Krummell, Bill Watkins
Reporters: Gerald Brickman, John Murray, Pvt. Bernard Marcus, Pvt. Bill Byrnes, 
Tom Farrahey. Seymor Corwin, Con Corey, Marshall Nurenberg. Walter Ell
man, Helen Cummings, Mary Jane Ferguson, Malcolmn Festenstein. 
Typists.........................................................................................La Verne Long, Gean Bober
The thing you notice about Marie 
Sunseri is her vivaciousness; every
thing about her is alivesparkling 
dark eyes and an almost electric 
smile. You cant imagine her ever 
having been bored with life and she 
never has; so many things happen 
to her that she thinks she is wasting 
time when she sleepsshe might 
miss something and that she couldnt 
stand. Her extra-curriclar activities 
take up most of her time which is 
exactly what she wants them to 
do, since she doesnt particularly 
care for studying.
She came to Tech in 1940 and be
gan her activities by being elected 
secretary of the Freshman class. 
Since then she has been president of 
Intersorority Council, associate edi
tor of the 43 Thistle, and senior rep
resentative on Margaret Morrison 
Senate. She is in Alpha Chi Al
pha and Pi Delta Epsilon, journalis
tic honoraries, and is a member of 
Womens Guild. To her one of the 
most important activities is Kappa 
Phi Delta. And then theres the 
Scottie (it comes out in two weeks 
Marie says) which has made her 
feel like a printer. She is editor this 
summer.
When she graduates, she wants 
to be personnel manager of some 
huge concern, TWA or the Statler 
hotels. Besides getting a job after 
graduating, she is going to read all 
the books she hasnt had time to 
read, see all the plays she hasnt 
seen, target practice with her .22, 
and do more horseback riding and 
ice-skating. The only pet indulgence 
she has time for now is eating 
French Fries. She also wants to 
come back to Tech in 1946 or when
ever the proposed building program 
is completed.
. . . Marie Sunseri
Her living quarters used to be 
Millvale and the Union, now they 
are Whitfield and the Union. Dorm 
life is all right with her, but she
MARIE SUNSERI
misses her brown and tan Studebakershe cant drive from Mag
gie Murph to the Union, a sad state 
of affairs.
Men? Interesting ones with beau
tiful eyes and perfect teeth. Music? 
Star Dust as done by Tommy Dor
sey. Clothes? Evening ones of any 
description. Books? Strange, fascin
ating ones like Rebecca which she 
read three times. Travel? She loves 
it, even when a porter mistaking 
her for a member of the Tobacco 
Road cast puts her luggage with 
that of the rest of the company. 
Nick-name? Murky, which is as log
ical as calling Kate Smith Skinny. 
Present worry? The Scottie which 
comes out in two weeks.
Recreation Available For Army
During the summer, in addition 
to the ACAC sponsored program,
there will be recreational facilities 
available to this command without 
charge.
The Masonic Temple on Fifth 
Avenue, opposite the University of 
Pittsburgh, will sponsor a balanced 
program of activities. In the recrea
tion room you will find bowling, 
pool, and billiards, table tennis, 
shuffle board, cards, darts, soft 
drinks cookies, and cigarettes. On 
the main floor there will be dancing 
on alternate Saturdays with shows 
on the off Saturdays. There are al
ways plenty of hostesses, and the 
music is furnished by the outstand
ing orchestras of the district. Or
chestras which have already played 
for the dances include Baron Elliot, 
Joey Simms, and Clyde McKnight. 
The turnout has been excellent with 
Pitt men predominating, however. 
Those in charge of the dances sug
gest that more Tech soldiers attend.
During the dances or shows you 
will find refreshments on the mez
zanine with free cokes, cookies, 
candy, and cigarettes. Your uniform 
is your ticket of admission. Tickets 
for your date may be obtained 
from 1st Sgt. R. C. Sommer. It is 
requested that you sign the register
on the main floor. The temple is 
open 6:00 p. m. to 12:00 midnight 
each Saturday.
Soldiers are admitted free to all 
baseball games which are held at 
Forbes Field.
There is open house every week
end at the Y. M. & W. H. A., which 
is located across the street from the 
Cathedral of Learning. The associa
tion is open Saturdays from 3 to 12 
midnight and Sundays from 10 a. 
m. to 10 p. m. The activities open to 
service men include swimming, 
dancing, dramatics, and photogra
phy plus an excellent game room, li
brary, canteen, and lounge, and let
ter-writing facilities. They have a 
large number of classical and pop
ular recordings including many 
complete symphonies.
In addition to these there is a 
Special Sunday morning breakfast 
for late risers. The atmosphere is 
one of home hospitality with a com
plete shopping and mending service. 
There is always a number of host
esses present and you will get a sin
cere welcome.
Sergeant Sommer advises that the 
soldiers use carefully any recrea
tional facilities extended to them. 
This will insure their future wel
come and will help these programs 
to continue successfully.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JUNE 15, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Pictures In Plaid
Ability of Practice FieldsIBy J. Lindberg, Sports Editor
A condition has arisen that is quite complex in nature and should 
merit some attention. The situation hinges around the availability of 
playing fields for the use of the participating teams for their practice 
hours. Naturally a team that is competing in a mushball league will want 
to practice in order to increase its proficiency at the game. It seemed, 
however, that every time the civilian teams wanted to practice, the fields 
were always in use by the ASTP men, and the civilian teams were requir
ed to move off them. This misunderstanding has arisen from the fact that 
none of the civilian teams knew exactly when they could practice, and in
variably they would choose the time when the army was having their 
drills or supervised physical fitness hours. There are hours when the mil
itary must have the use of these fields, and it is quite right that they should 
have them.
The situation would be eased considerably if the exact times that the 
fields are in use are known. All fields are in use from 4 P. M. until 5:30 
P. M., Monday through Thursday by the regularly scheduled games. On 
Monday they are open until 4 P. M., on Tuesday, until 4 P. M., on Wed
nesday, until 3 P. M., on Thursday, until 3 P. M., and on Friday until 4 P. 
M., at which time there is a regular military drill. On Saturday all fields 
are open for civilian practice all day, except the hours from 2 P. M. to 3 
P. M. Also after dinner there is ample opportunity for teams to practice 
until dark on all fields, although practice is not generally the accepted 
thing immediately after dinner. The main conflict lies chiefly over the 
week-ends, beginning Friday evening, but there should be no disrupted 
practices if the teams are willing to observe the above hours. It is also 
very likely that postponed games, when they occur, will be played during 
some of these hours.
Golf, Tennis Entries 
Called In By Saturday
As a result of the interest display
ed on the part of the ASTP mem
bers, the Intramural Board has 
taken steps to hold a golf tourna
ment on the Carnegie Tech cam
pus. It was decided that competi
tion would take the shape of both 
individual contests and team con
tests. Private R. Studer and Mar
vin Goldberger were appointed to 
take charge of the sport, heading a 
committee under the Intramural 
Board. Entries are to be in not lat
er than noon, Saturday, June 19, 
and after that date no entries will be 
accepted. Competition will be run 
off first as an individual contest 
much the same as leading golf tour
naments of today. The civilian en
tries will play an elimination match,
League Standings
League I
Team Won Lost Pet.
Co. B, Pt. 2...................... 3 0 1.000
Delta Upsilon................... 2 1 .666
Cameron Hall ................. 2 1 .666
Co. A, Pt. 5....................... 1 1 -500
Beta Sigma Rho.................... 1 2 .333
Cedar Hall ....................... 0 2 .000
Co. B, Pt. 1___.'................... 0 2 .000
Last Weeks Results __
Delta Upsilon... 9Cedar Hall ........0
Cameron Hall... 7Beta Sigma Rho. 5
Co. B, Pt. 2........6Co. A, Pt. 5. 1
Beta Sigma Rho. 16Co. A, Pt. 1...8
League II
Team Won Lost
Co. A, Pt. 1....................... 3
Pi Kappa Alpha ............ 1Sigma Alpha Epsilon ... 1
Co. A, Pt. 2....................... 1
Beta Theta Pi ................. 0
Theta Xi ........................... 0
Co. B, Pt. 3....................... 0
Last Weeks Results
Co. A, Pt. 1........15Theta Xi3AE ...................14Co. A, Pt. 2..........7
Co. B, Pt. 3........15Beta Theta Pi... 7
League III
and the four, or six, lowest scorers 
will form a team to compete with 
the army team, which will also be 
formed by having an elimination 
match. These two teams will then 
compete against each other for the 
top honors. This competition has 
been strongly urged by the army 
fellows, and anyone being interest
ed must have his entry in by the 
appointed time.
Tennis Also Begins 
Since the Softball Program is nec
essarily curtailed by the limited use 
of fields, most teams can participate 
only once each week. This has in 
turn curtailed the games that each 
fellow can play, and there has been 
a desire to enlarge the sports in the 
intramural program to include more 
activity for the fellows taking part 
in these sports. A committee ap
pointed by the Intramural Board 
and headed by Joe Eiger and Pri
vate Bill Smith is investigating the 
possibility of holding a tennis tour
nament similar to the schedule laid 
out for the coming golf competition. 
Entries are to be in by Saturday, 
June 19, the same date that golf 
entries are due. The time element 
is again very serious in this case, 
and there is a very strong possibility 
that tennis must be run off in as 
short a time as possible. Individual 
eliminations followed by team com
petition is likely.
Pet.
1.0001.000
.500
.333
.000
.000.000
... 6
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
TeamWonLostPet.
Co. A, Pt. 3...................... 301.000
Tau Delta Phi ............... 201.000
Delta Tau Delta.......... 11.500........... 11.500
Co. A, Pt. 4................... 12.333
Kappa Sigma ............. 02.000
Co. B, Pt. 4 & 5........... 02.000
Last Weeks Results
Tau Delta Phi...5Delta Tau Delta. 4
Co. A, Pt. 32Citcom Clan .... 1
Co. A, Pt. 413Kappa Sigma...12
Tau Delta Phi...7Co. B, Pt. 4 & 5.. 4
Honest Prices Faithful Promises
A Service You Will 
Appreciate
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
4526 Forbes St.MA. 9728
Second Big Week of 
Softball Brings Few 
Upsets To Leaders
By Chuck Peterson 
In the first full week of the cur
rent mushball season, sixteen games 
were played on schedule with 
weather conditions and dry fields 
favoring good ball every day.
The first two contests of the sea
son in which the Army teams play
ed each other were played on Mon
day, June 7, when platoons one and 
two of Company A had an added 
side bet to spur them on. The slug
ging first platoon walked off with 
both the money and the game by the 
lopsided score of 21 to 7 after put
ting the game on ice with ten runs 
in the first. The third and fourth 
platoons of the same company also 
fought an uneven battle which the 
powerful third won 10 to 2. The 
hapless Beta Sigs lost to the D. U.s 
in another 10 to 2 game as they were 
handcuffed by Frank Showmans 
pitching artistry. The Fifth Platoon 
of Company A trounced a feeble 
Cedar Hall team in the fourth lop
sided game of the day, 23 to 3.
In three battles Tuesday, the 
winning team scored at least twice 
but the Monday precedent of lop
sided scores was broken in the 
fourth game in which the rampag
ing Tau Delts defeated the fourth
Diggin The Discs
By Dick
Ciribiribin (vocal by Frank 
Sinatra)
AvalonHarry JamesColumbia 
Heres a combination that cant 
be beatHarry playing his theme 
with the vocal by Frank Sinatra. 
This side was cut way back, when 
Frank was vocalist with the James 
band. Avalon is a relaxed tempo 
jump tune with the typically James 
brass sectionguaranteed to move 
the opposite wall back at least three 
feet when they decide to blast.
All or Nothing at All (vocal by 
Frank Sinatra)
FlashHarry James (Columbia) 
This record has what it takes to 
be a real hit; the most popular band 
in the land and the newly famous 
Frank Sinatra. Franks vocalizing is 
superb as usual. On the flipover is 
a riff tune by the pre-fiddle section 
of James band. Some nice solo horn 
work by Harry.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
and fifth platoons of Company B,
7 to 4. The Tau Delts scored four 
times in the fourth to build up a 
lead which the soldiers were unable 
to overcome. In the other games of 
the day Beta Sigma Rho humbled 
the B-l team 16 to 8, a slugging nine 
from the Third platoon of Company 
B defeated the Betas, 15 to 7, and 
the B-2 team beat a spirited Cam
eron Hall team, 18 to 2.
Wednesday featured several thrill
ers as Citcom fought to no avail in 
a loss to Company Ar Third Platoon,
2 to 1, their second game of the sea
son featuring an exceptionally low 
score. The Army only scored once 
in the first and once in the fourth, 
but it was enough to down the game 
Citcom team, Company A, fourth 
platoon slugged it out with Kappa 
Sigma 13 to 12, but even though 
the frat men were spurred on by a 
triple play, Bar to Perkins, they 
were unable to push across the ty
ing run in the last of the seventh. 
The first platoon of Company A roll
ed up its third straight win of the 
season as they rolled over the T. 
X.s, 15 to 6, remaining among the 
undefeated teams by virtue of the 
victory. The hard hitting S. A. E. 
team swamped the A-2 team with 
the aid of a six run scoring spree in 
the sixth frame.
The most exciting game of the 
week was the Tau Delt-Delt game 
on Thursday which featured only 
15 safeties. The courageous Delts 
didnt have enough push to force 
over the tying run as they fell be
fore the on-rushing boys from Wal
nut Street, 5 to 4. The Fifth platoon 
of Company A was baffled into de
feat by the excellent pitching of 
the B-2 nine, and was able to tally 
but once while the boys from the 
other Company scored 6 times. The 
D. U.s, aided by another wellpitched game by Frank Showman, 
were completely masters of the sit
uation on field two as they white
washed the struggling Cedar Hall 
team, 9 to 0 in the only shutout of 
the current season. The final game 
of the week was won by a fighting 
Cameron Hall squad as they surg
ed from behind with three runs in 
the sixth to defeat the Beta Sigs,
7 to 5.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
r9|t0M/ -IS,
'Es,3 $3.00 per 
-prt- i Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 15, 1943
All-City Y Conference 
Meets at Union June 19
Advisors and Cabinet members of 
YMCA and CWCA are invited to 
participate in a YMCA-YWCA AllCity Conference at the Union, Sat
urday, June 19.
The purpose of the conference is 
to discuss and clarify the policies 
and programs of Christian Associa
tions in the light of war conditions. 
The conference will open at two 
oclock with a statement by Mrs. R. 
D. Campbell, president of the Pitts
burgh chapter of YWCA. A period 
of worship will follow.
The principal speaker of the con
ference, who will address the group 
in the afternoon, will be Dr. Eduard
C. Lindeman, an outstanding teach
er and consultant of the New York 
School of Social Work. Besides be
ing a fine teacher, Dr. Lindeman is 
one of the outstanding authors and 
philosophers of the day.
The rest of the afternoon will be 
devoted to discussions. The group 
will be divided into small units and 
will consider the problems of teen
age boys and girls, the family dur
ing wartime, and the problems of 
religious, racial, and nationality mi
norities. Dinner and a forum led by 
Dr. Lindeman will close the Con
ference.
Last Call For Retreat
June 25 is drawing near, and how 
many of you who wanted to attend 
the CWCA-YWCA Retreat have 
signed up? If you havent, hurry 
and do so in Mr. Davis office be
cause these two groups have plan
ned a full weekend.
Ridgeview Park is the place, and 
the students are leaving Friday aft
ernoon, June 25. Leading the dis
cussions will be Dr. Donald A. Spen
cer, minister of the Point Breeze 
Presbyterian Church. The dele
gates to the conference will stay at 
the hotel in Ridgeview Park, which 
is a charming summer resort equip
ped with facilities for swimming, 
tennis, hiking, and mushball.
The Conference will end after an 
early dinner Sunday noon.
.. ACAC Minutes..
June 10, 1943. 
MINUTES OF THE ARMY -CIVILIAN 
ACTIVITIES COUNCIL
The meeting was called to order at 5:15 
p.m.Present: Messrs. Byrnes, Fairchild,
Futchik, Lindberg, and Sher, and the 
Misses Rial and Schadel.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social
Miss Rial reported that plans for the 
coming dance to be held June 19 are pro
gressing, and there will be a pre-sale of 
tickets.
AthleticMr. Lindberg read the minutes of the 
Intramural Board meeting of June 2. 
He moved that they be approved.
Motion carried.Mr. Lindberg read the minutes of the 
Intramural Board meeting of June 9 and 
moved that they be approved.
Motion carried.
Special Committee
Miss Schadel read the revised report
Prodigy In Uniform, 
Private Plays Piano %/
A hot, sultry day ... all is quiet. 
In a first-floor room in Arts Build
ing, Mr. Parisi conducts a class . . . 
trying valiantly but vainly to inter
est eight students in the intricacies 
of Spanish vocabularlies. The brainweary students reach the point of 
complete mental stagnation . . . 
Then from an upstairs practice room 
come the familiar strains of Embraceable You being played on the 
piano ... A happening of itself not 
extraordinary, but the popular tune 
is being played in such a profes
sional and melodious style that the 
students immediately emerge from 
their lethargy.
Here indeed is something that 
does not happen every day to a 
Spanish class. Mr. Parisis subse
quent words are drowned out as the 
unknown pianist continues to charm 
his audience with beautiful rendi
tions of Smoke Gets In Your Eyes 
and a bit of Chopin. With the ring
ing of the bell, two of the more in
quisitive music lovers hurry out the 
door to personally thank the invisi
ble artist. They see a tall, lanky sol
dier nonchalantly leaving the build
ing. In answer to their shouted 
question as to whether he was the 
pianist, he answers rather shyly 
that he had been playing the piano 
a few minutes ago.
Further questioning reveals him 
to be 21-year old Private Robert R. 
Hochhalter from Steele, North Da
kota. Private Hochhalter has al
ways played the piano for sheer en
joyment. Well, a few Spanish stu
dents also enjoyed your piano play
ing, soldier. So how about it, wont 
you give some of us other Techites 
a chance to hear you do your stuff 
too?
which she had read at the preceding 
meeting and which had been tabled. She 
said that if ACAC decided that the funds 
should remain frozen, the stipulation 
should be made that the various organi
zations determine what they will do with 
their surpluses at the termination of the 
ACAC. She said that she considered that 
releasing the funds would be too much 
trouble and that reopening the old Stu
dent Council accounts would make too 
much work for the cashiers office.
Miss Shadel moved that the surpluses 
remain frozen, with the stipulation that 
the organizations be consulted at the 
termination of ACAC.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted, 
MARGARET ROSE SKEEHAN,
Acting Secretary.
Literary Competition 
Held For Soldiers
The Macmillan Company is cele
brating its centenary 1943 with the 
first general prize contest in its his
tory. This contest is unusual, how
ever, in that it is open only to the 
Armed Forces of the United Na
tions. By this, the contest will give 
the soldiers a chance at journalism, 
despite the war.
Cash awards will be given to en
tries of the different nations in 
varying amounts. Prizes for Amer
icans range from $2,500 for each of 
the two best works of fiction and 
non-fiction to smaller sums de
pendent on the worth of the indi
vidual manuscripts. British awards 
will be of the same value. The best 
Canadian entry will receive $500, 
provided that it does not win a ma
jor British award. In addition to the 
actual award, regular royalties will 
be paid to each author.
To qualify for the American 
award the author must be either an 
American citizen serving in any cf 
the United Nations Forces or any
one, citizen or otherwise, serving in 
a branch of the fighting forces of the 
United States. Contestants for the 
British prizes must be British-born 
men or women serving in any serv
ice branch of the British Empire. 
Both British and American writers 
must be between 19 and 35 years of 
age; the manuscripts must be writ
ten in English; and technical, spec
ialized, or purely educational books 
will not be considered. Unless it can 
be shown that circumstances of war 
have caused a delay, entries will not 
be accepted later than December 
31, 1943, and the decision of the Mac
millan Company is final on all mat
ters.
Obituary
It is with sincere sympathy that 
we herewith announce the unnat
ural death of the July 5th holiday. 
Aged 167, it died at the hands of the 
Carnegie Committee on Calendar 
and Schedules, who announced that 
all programs will run as usual on 
that day. The next of kin have been 
notified.
rW'ute NewH BcufA.!
OWI Survey Shows 
Soldiers Preference
One of the many things that we 
at home can do to maintain the high 
morale of our fighting man is to 
continue sending them letters. But 
it is essential that we know the type 
of mail that our servicemen enjoy 
reading.
According to a survey made re
cently by the Office of War Informa
tion, the men of our armed forces 
like best to receive mail from their 
home and from their family. A 
serviceman wants to find out how 
his family is doing everything possi
ble to help win the warhow they 
are trying to help him fight injus
tice. He wants also to know how 
anxious his folks are for his return. 
Tell him how well the family is and 
how busy they are.
The fighting man is also interest
ed in hearing how his family is get
ting along financially, but he doesnt 
want to hear unnecessary details 
about financial troubles.
When writing the serviceman a 
letter, dont tell him your troubles, 
for they are nothing compared with 
his own difficulties. He doesnt want 
to hear your complaints since he can 
do nothing about them. Also, in 
your mail to him dont write about 
all the things of which you are de
prived, because it is by your being 
deprived that he is being supplied 
with war-winning materials.
The survey states that the fight
ing men like especially to receive 
newspaper clipping from their home 
towns. In your letters tell him the 
news about girls he knows in his 
community. He enjoys reading 
about the doings of old friends and 
the social happenings of his home
town. Write him of the exploits of 
his home town and the effects of 
the war on the town, reminiscence 
about past events and places the 
serviceman used to frequent.
One thing not to forget is that 
the War Department considers your 
mail so important that every plane 
and ship that leaves the country 
contains a shipment of mail.
ARMY MEN
Complete Selection of 
ARMY ACCESSORIES
SHIRTS BELTS TIES 
PANTS SOCKS
Overseas Hats Garrison Caps 
At Popular Prices
Leonards Mens Shop
Oakland Cor. Forbes & Atwood St. 
5 minutes walk from school
We offer SPECIAL RATES for 
Cleaning to the ARMY MEN at 
Tech. Quick Service.
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
BILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
