The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Offers Soldiers 
Specialized Army Course
Editor T. J. Harmany (center) with co-managing editors Helena Aronson and 
Walt Darby.
Tartan Senior Staff 
Elects Harmany Editor
The CARNEGIE TARTAN, in accord
ance with the expedited program, will 
continue during the summer semester. 
The new staff positions will be occupied 
by Thalia J. Harmany, General Studies 
44, as Editor-in-Chief, and Walt Darby,
C. E. 44, and Helena Aronson, General 
Studies 44, as Co-Managing Editors.
T. J. Harmany, local girl of Kappa Phi 
Delta, is a member of AXA and PiDE. 
She is a member of the Womens Guild 
and Vice President of CWCA. T. J. is the 
first girl in many years to be elected 
Editor of the TARTAN.
Walt Darby, a member of IAS and 
PiDE, has been on the TARTAN staff 
three years and the DORM BAGPIPER 
for two years. In general, Walts heart 
is in his work, his work being the TAR
TAN and aeronautical engineering.
Helena Aronson began as a reporter, 
advanced to Junior Editor and then to 
her present position. Simultaneously she 
was a reporter and Womens Editor on the 
BAGPIPER. Because of her work on 
publications, she is a member of AXA 
and PiDE. In her junior year, Helena 
was Dormitory Vice President and is now 
the President of Womens Guild. Presi
dency of a freshman dorm, Vice President 
of Whitfield, Mortar Board and Mu Alpha 
Gamma round out her social activities.
With these three people heading the 
editorial staff, the TARTAN will continue 
publication in the regular manner, thus 
establishing an entirely new precedent.
Frats Are Determined 
To Maintain Identities
Someone once remarked that college 
life would toe very dead without frater
nities. The war has severely curtailed 
fraternal activities, and in order to main
tain a semblance of organization they 
have been forced to resort to one of two 
strategies: rushing like mad, or sharing 
houses.
Delta Tau Delta really led the way in 
rushing, and as a result 17 freshmen are 
wearing Delt pledge pins. As the houses 
of Theta Xi, Beta Theta Pi, and Tau 
Delta Phi are not owned by the school, 
these fraternities have decided to rush 
with more moderation and let nature 
take its course.
Beta Sigma Rho, one of the first fra
ternities to advocate the share-house pol
icy, has moved in with the Pi Lams of 
Pitt. Strangely enough the bloody 
clashes which might be expected upon 
the combination of Tech and Pitt men 
have not occurred. In fact, both frater
nities are completely satisfied with pres
ent arrangements. Other fraternities 
which have combined for the duration 
are Phi Kaps and Kappa Sigs.
Attention, Army!
This issue and the next, is being pre
sented to you with the compliments of 
the TARTAN Staff. The remaining is
sues, 11 in number, however, will be sub
scription issues. This means that each 
soldier who wishes to have a copy of 
the campus newspaper must subscribe to 
the tune of $1. It should be noted that 
the civilian students are not subject to 
this fee inasmuch as part of their activ
ities fee, which the Army is not required 
to pay, is directed toward the cost of 
publication.
There are several soldiers working on 
the staff now, and all others who wish to 
participate will be welcome. There will 
be a weekly column written by a soldier 
for the soldiers, concerning them and 
their activities.
Dont pass up this opportunity to keep 
in the know with your campus friends!
ACAC Supersedes 
Student Council
One of the last official acts of the now 
extinct Student Council was to establish 
the Army-Civilian Activities Council 
as its successor. The purpose of this 
Body, now being formed is to control all 
student activities not of an intercollegiate 
nature at Carnegie Tech.
Elections of the representatives to the 
ACAC were conducted by Student Coun
cil. Hereafter, the ACAC will conduct 
the elections. Each representative will 
have one vote. They are as follows: Art 
School, one representative; Athletics, one 
representative; Margaret Morrison, two 
representatives; Engineering, one repre
sentative. The school has appointed Dean 
Murphy the administration co-ordinator; 
he has no vote.
In addition, the Army is to have three 
members, one each to represent Athletics, 
Publications, and Engineering. Each 
shall have one vote. There will be com
mittees of Budget, Dance and Social 
Events, Athletics, Publications, and Spe
cial.
Those representatives already named 
are: Mary Ann Rial, Social Chairman
and Margaret Morrison Representative; 
Dorothy Schadel, Special Committee 
Chairman and Margaret Morrison Rep
resentative; John Lindberg, Athletic Rep
resentative; A1 Sher, Budget Chairman 
and Engineering Representative; Bob 
Noyes, Publications Representative; and 
Bets Beall, Secretary.
This ACAC plan which was accepted 
by the Council is designed to support 
student activities during the present 
emergency period and to ensure the con
tinuance of activities on a pre-war basis 
after the emergency period is over. Most 
of the womens activities will of course 
not be affected to any great extent.
N&fley Reed QestecU uAlneAA eUead
Because of action taken by the ArmyCivilian Activities Council in a meeting 
held early last week, the business posts 
of four leading Carnegie Tech publica
tions have been combined under one 
head to be designated as the General 
Business Manager of Publications. The 
appointment of Negley Reed, Civil En
gineer, class of 46, to this post was ap
proved; and he will assume his duties 
with this issue of the TARTAN.
This appointment marks the first time 
that the business control of more than a 
single publication has been given to one 
student. Reed replaces Wilbur C. Thomas 
as Business Manager of the TARTAN.
A member of Delta Tau Delta frater
nity, he hails from Oil City and was Per
sonnel Manager of the Technical last 
semester. Formerly assistant treasurei 
of the fraternity, Reed has taken over the 
position of Delt treasurer for the sum
mer. As Business Manager of Publica
tions, Reed will handle the financial end 
of the TARTAN, Scottie, and Technical. 
If the Thistle is continued, his duties 
will include that publication also.
According to the report of the Publi
cations Committee, Reed shall have the 
responsibility of handling all the adver
tising, national and local inclusive, for 
the publications with the aid of mem
bers chosen from the various business 
staffs by the respective staffs.
NEGLEY REED 
. . . heavy job jor a sophomore . . .
In announcing the creation of the new 
business post, the Publications Commit
tee report also stated the method of 
election for such a manager will be car
ried on by the Publications Committee 
upon recommendation by the outgoing 
manager; nominations, however, may be 
made by any member of the committee. 
It shall not be necessary that the pro
posed person be a member of the Pub
lications Committee.
Engineering Courses 
Are Taught; Study 
Hours Supervised
During the past three weeks, some 400 
soldiers registered for the Army Special
ized Training Program given by Carnegie 
Tech in conjunction with the United 
States Army. These soldiers came from 
many of the countrys outstanding col
leges. They were gathered from Army 
camps in the vicinity of these colleges, 
and given placement tests to determine 
what courses they would take.
The training program at Carnegie Tech 
is divided into two parts; a Basic course 
of three terms, each of three months 
duration; and an Advance Course of three 
terms, also of three months duration 
each. The number of terms taken de
pends on the grades the soldier receives 
in the preceding term.
The first term course consists of the 
following subjects: Physics, College Al
gebra, Chemistry, English, History, Geo
graphy, Physical Training, and Military 
Tactics. At present the men taking the 
second term course substitute Analytical 
Geometry for College Algebra, and those 
taking the third term course substitute 
Differential and Integral Calculus for the 
College Algebra, and add Engineering 
Drawing. All told, each man has about 
twenty-five hours class work and forty 
hours supervised study.
This strenuous course requires a rigid 
Army day. The day runs as follows: 
Reveille at 6:15; Assembly at 6:30; Break
fast at 7:00; class call at 8:00; Lunch at 
12:00; Afternoon Class call at 1:00; and 
classes end at 5:00. Then there is a free 
period until six when Supper Call is 
sounded. After supper the men are free 
until 7:30 when they have to report for 
supervised study in their rooms until 
10:00. There is a smoke period from 
8:45 till 9:00 to offer a break and rest. 
Another free period is allowed between 
10:00 and 10:30, after which all men must 
turn in. Bed inspection is held at this 
time to insure the presence of all men, 
The only leaves given so far, are from 
3:00 Saturday afternoon until 7:30 Sun
day night.
Since all the men lost any rank they 
held previous to entering the course, they 
are supervised by cadet officers. These 
positions alternate from man to man, so 
that each may obtain experience as an 
officer. The arm bands seen on the 
. . . Continued on page 4
C Book To List Soldiers
For the first time in the history of Car
negie Tech, a Student Directory will be 
published and distributed during the In
stitutes summer session. This years 
Directory will be composed of three parts. 
Two of these parts will be a list of the 
names, addresses, and telephone numbers 
of all civilian students, and a list of the 
addresses, telephone numbers, and mem
bers of the different sororities and fraterntiies, both social and honorary. The 
third section will contain information 
about each of the four-hundred-odd sol
diers stationed at Carnegie.
The Directory, which is published un
der the supervision of the Bureau of 
News and Publications, is expected to be 
distributed about the first of June. Many 
fraternities and sororities, however, have 
not yet sent their membership lists to the 
Bureau. It is imperative that they do 
so immediately, if they wish to be in
cluded in the Directory.
Vol. 37 No.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 25, 1943

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
I! 'I - .............. . - ---------   -   1TUESDAY, MAY 25, 1943
dUotuL AnmcUain.
Now that the long-awaited additions to our student body, the soldiers, 
are at last settled, and now that the4furor of exams, vacation, and registra
tion has died down, we of the TARTAN feel that it is time to review the state 
of affairs on campus. We know that it is difficult at first to become acquainted 
with a great many people, and we know, too, that up to this time there has 
been little opportunity for the soldiers and civilians to meet; but we think 
that it is high time they did. We find that most of the civilians are unsure 
how to go about making the acquaintance of the soldiers, and the soldiers, with 
but few exceptions, feel themselves outsiders in campus life.
Many students do not seem to understand that the soldiers have enrolled 
as full-time students of Carnegie Tech. These boys are to be included in every 
campus activity that time and interest permits. They will be here for at least 
three months, and many will remain much longer. Wouldnt it then be the 
best and wisest policy to absorb them as quickly as possible into the social 
setup of the school? This can easily be done when both groups of students 
understand the situation.
Plans are now under way for a dance to be held this Saturday night as 
a first step in the get-acquainted program. It is to be understood, however, 
that this dance is not being given just for the boys in the army. To be a 
success, the presence of as many of the civilian boys on campusas well as all 
the girlswho can possibly attend is absolutely necessary. Other social activ
ities will no doubt follow.
There is one thing, however, that each individual student, soldier or 
civilian, can do to help in this orientation program. A sincere and cheerful 
Hello to every fellow-student on campus will ease the strain of these first 
few uncertain weeks. Although there has long been a regulation under the 
Freshman Orientation Committee that requires freshmen to speak to every
one on campus, many students do not realize that this rule applies to all three 
years of college life. It applies to girls as well as boys, for Mrs. Yon, Dean 
of Women, has assured us that it is not only proper, but desirable for all stu
dents to cooperate in this small but important way.
Belatedly, but very sincerely, we would like to extend to the soldiers a 
warm welcome to Carnegie Tech. We hope that you will be able to take part 
in the extra curricular activities and form friendships that are so important 
a part of campus life.
one of the boys
John Lindberg
Joe College Is Dead
Out of the mixed turmoil and fear of this struggle, we hope to extract 
a new and better way of life. As a part of an age-old cultural revolution, the 
passing of this war shall usher in a new eradevoid of the intrigue that has 
so characterized our past history.
This nations institutions have weathered many storms, both internal and 
from foreign soilbut it is the duty of every intelligent citizen of the world 
to see that their hold on our culture and economy will not be maintained in 
the post-war world.
To increase the egectiveness of our struggle, the nation has been forced 
to draw on the 18-21 year old manpower, including the bulk of all college stu
dents. As a result, all normal activity on the nations campuses has ceased.
Joe College is dead, but let us not attempt a resurrection.
The temporary cessation of past college environment is no indication of 
what is to come, but rather a deathxof an institution that will enable the rebirth 
of anotherperhaps cleaner and finer in spirit.
The youth of America are not sacrificing their blood on foreign soil to 
be able to return to a rah-rah, gold-fish eating institution. Nor are they fight
ing for the snobbery and bigotry that so characterizes Americas universities. 
Let them not return to colleges that produce over-specialized, mentally unde
veloped human beings.
They are not fighting in vain, for out of the struggle will arise the fruits 
of the cultural revolutioninstitutions geared to turn out good people instead 
of good professional technicians; institutions that will breed into college stu
dents that indominatible liberal spirit that has long been the symbol of Euro
pean youth.
Let us be able to truthfully say that a graduate of an American university 
will be a person free of prejudice and bigotry, and not merely the proud pos
sessor of a rolled parchment.
This, and not the maintenance of status quo ante in American ideals, 
should be the aim of our youth.
Joe College is dead, but let us not mourn. 
________________________________________________________________M. L. G.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 - PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
iT"T"T iT"AfiTt er After office Hours Call
National Adveiteing Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief ..........................sc. 7093College Publishers Representative
420 maoison avk. new yohk. k. y. Business Manager................................SC. 8951
ocHuf  Bo rod  tfs CuHau l TB sTuHAsHf
Entered as secoal-dsu matter la the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act ef March S, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination period*.
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-In-Chief.........................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager.............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors................................................................Helena Aronson, Walt Darby
Sports Editor.............................................................................................................John Lindberg
Asst. Btisiness Manager................................................................................................Merle Wolff
Adv. Manager...........................................................................................................Naomi Ellman
Circulation...............................................................................................................Chester Feinberg
in ii inr F Hit nr # ...................................Marty Gross, Aron Beck*......................................... Adeline Herlick. Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb.
Practically any time you walk into the 
Kappa Sig house, you can hear the broth
ers singing one of their favorite songs, 
Hurrah for Lindy, hes a damn fine 
manThis custom started, it seems, 
when his only claim to fame was boost
ing the scores of our football team, and 
has lasted right down to his election as 
president of Tau Beta Pi, which he con
siders the greatest honor he has received 
at Tech. But not only do his fraternity 
brothers think him a great guyhe has 
been their treasurer for two yearsthat 
seems to be the concensus of opinion of 
everyone who knows Big John Lindberg.
The trouble is that its pretty hard to 
get to know Lindy these days, as anyone 
who tries to write an interview with him 
will soon find out. First he was in con
ference with Dean Murphy. Then he was 
collaborating with Athletics Director 
Overend in setting up the new Intramural 
Board. After that he was at a meeting 
of the ACAC, to which he is the Ath
letics Representative. Finally I found 
him on Sunday afternoon sitting in the 
TARTAN officewhere he is Sports 
Editorcalmly blowing a fuse because 
one of his star reporters hadnt yet re
turned from his week-end vacation.
Little wonder he is the representative 
of athletics on the civilian half of our new 
governing body, for sports take up a large 
portion of Lindys time. Laboring under 
a big number 88, he has become a star 
right tackle, and received two letters in 
football, as well as freshman numerals in 
football and track. Last year he served 
as vice-president of the Managers Club 
and a member of the old Intramural 
Board.
In addition to his proficiency in ath
letics, Lindy has consistently maintained 
a high academic rating. He is a member 
of Phi Kappa Phi, an honorary scholastic 
fraternity, and has been, in turn, a mem
ber of the three class honorariesSci
mitar, Delta Skull, and Omicron Delta 
Kappa. Right now he is president of 
Inter-honorary Council.
In feminine circles Lindy is known as 
one of the strong, silent type.
A compliment from him is a rare thing, 
for he is usually most non-committal 
where women are concerned. Fortunate
ly, this reporter was able to get him to 
admit that he prefers blondes and 
brunettes to all other types. In fact, his 
aim in life is to be a Big Executive with
See Here, Tech
By Pvt. Bernard Marcus
Carnegie Techs new student body, 
having arrived in an avalanche of confu
sion and chaos last week, officially began 
its studies eight days ago. Since the boys 
have been questioned over and over 
again how they are taking to their new 
environment, the TARTAN has kindly 
consented to let a few of us blow off 
about Tech.
All the soldiers had heard of Carnegies 
superb reputation in the field of en
gineering, but we were inclined to be 
from Missouri. Now were convinced 
Old Andy did okay by Pittsburgh.
So far as the dorms are concerned, we 
dont blame the civilian students for grip
ing at being kicked out. Theyre tops. 
Even the fancy Air Corps boys from 
Miami Beach are more than satisfied.
Studies, naturally, are tougher and 
more tedious than they were B.K. (before 
khaki). But the army wants engineers 
and they want em in a hurry. The fac
ulty at Tech is bound to make efficient 
combat men out of us or kill us in the 
attempt.
Dean Warden told us the other day he 
hoped we would like the food. We do.
Co-eds, a subject dear to students the 
world over, interest us as much as we 
hope we interest them. Seriously we all 
get a kick out of the gals on the corral 
fence, and we know they have a good 
time watching us wander up and down 
the sidewalk, apparently for no good rea
son at all.
The four hundred-odd soldiers here at 
Carnegie Tech are sincere in saying 
were gonna make this place the best 
AST unit in the country. And more 
than a little credit for this morale goes 
to the way we have been welcomed by 
the civilian students.
a beautiful secretary. Then he thinks 
he will be able to attain that certain 
technique of efficiency towards which he is 
constantly striving. And Im not sure he 
meant in the field of Metallurgical en
gineering.
One thing he is passionately fond of 
is staying up late, probably the reason he
Mr. John Lindberg
so notoriously hard to rouse in the morn
ings; another is talking on the telephone 
to anyone and everyonejust call him 
up and see. But his most terrific ob
session, he confides, is Benny Goodmans 
orchestra, and has been since he met 
Goodman a couple of years ago in De
troit, where he recently moved from his 
home town of Lima, Ohio.
Right now Lindy is waiting bids from 
the Army or Navy, but until his offer is 
accepted, heres to Johnny Lindberg, one 
of the boys!
Summer Students Face 
Heat and Homework
Remember the poem about burying 
books and pencils for the duration of the 
summer? Forget itits only a memory. 
Many Carnegie Tech men who formerly 
spent their summer vacations basking in 
the sunshine at some distant seashore, or 
who fished in cool, clear mountain-streams 
now are promenading the corridors of 
Engineering and Industries Halls because 
the new summer trimester is in session. 
We have lost the Beanery and Skibo for 
the duration, but we still have enough 
homework to remind us of the good old 
days.
The first trimester of the accelerated 
program marks the initiation of 160 new 
freshmen into the routine of college life. 
In addition to the new freshmen, 534 stu
dents are continuing their education this 
summer. Many of the eourses offered 
during the regular semesters are being 
taught. The engineering department is 
continuing to operate on a 110111131 basis, 
and Margaret Morrison is offering courses 
in General Science and Secretarial Train
ing. Eighty-two of the total 694 students 
are studying at Margaret Morrison.
For the first time in Carnegie Tech his
tory, women are majoring in physics and 
chemistry. The two freshmen (or per
haps I should say fresh women) who have 
accomplished the feat are Julia Randall 
and Lillian Moravecky. Julia is from Mt. 
Lebanon High and Lillian from Beaver 
Falls. Both of these girls have excellent 
high school records; hence no one should 
be surprised if the boys get some stiff 
competition.
Memorial Day, May 31
The Secretary reported that the calen
dar for the summer trimester scheduled 
May 31 (Memorial Day) as a holiday. 
This calendar had been approved before 
the initiation of the ASTP. ASTP train
ees are to attend classes on Memorial 
Day. In accordance with the plan of 
expediting our programs to the limit, and 
under the assumption that it is just as 
important for civilian students to study 
on Memorial Day as it is for the soldiers 
to do so, the Board VOTED that all pro
grams will run as usual on May 31.
Robert E. Doherty.
From the minutes of the Executive 
Board.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 25, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
New Intramural Board Set Up; 
Entries For Softball Called In
By JOHN A. LINDBERG 
Sports Editor
Plans have been completed for the re
vised Intramural Board, which serves as 
the governing body for all intramural 
sports on the Carnegie Tech campus. The 
necessity for revision was brought about 
by the advent of the Army Specialized 
Training Program on the Tech campus, 
and need became apparent to include 
those men in the intramurals at Carnegie.
The first step in this direction was for 
the old Student Council to suspend the 
constitution of the old Intramural Board, 
and make provisions for the setting up 
of a new one under the Army-Civilian 
Activities Council. This was done by ap
pointing two men, one an A.S.T.P. mem
ber and one a civilian, to act as Athletic 
Representatives on the A.C.A.C. It was 
the job of these two men to set up a new 
board in a manner they saw fit. Such a 
board has been set up and has been rati
fied by the Army-Civilian Activities 
Council. This means that the new board 
is about to begin its functions, and the 
intramural program is scheduled to get 
under way very shortly.
The provisions ratified by the ArmyCivilian Activities Council for the Intra
mural Board are as follows:
* 1. The board shall be composed of 
nine members, five of whom shall be ci
vilians and four of whom shall be mem
bers of the A.S.T.P. stationed at the Car
negie Institute of Technology.
(a) The Army members shall be chosen 
at the discretion of Colonel Bass of the 
Department of Military Science and Tac
tics.
2. Two members of this board shall be 
Athletic Representatives on the A.C.A.C., 
one being a civilian and one an Army 
man.
3. The civilian members of this 
board shall be chosen by the Civilian 
Athletic Representative on the A.C.A.C.
4. This board shall operate like the 
previous Intramural Board, and shall 
work in conjunction with Mr. Eyman and 
the Physical Fitness Program.
(a) It shall call in entries to whatever 
sports it decides to hold in the Intra
mural Program.
(b) It shall draw up schedules for each 
sport.
(c)It shall determine the eligibility of 
participants.
(d) It shall be responsible for keeping 
organizations participating in the Intra
mural Program notified of scheduled 
games and any proceedings of the board.
5. The board shall have jurisdiction 
over all disputes and arbitrary questions 
that may arise, but minutes shall be kept 
of each meeting and must be presented 
to and approved by the A.C.A.C.
(a) A secretary shall be elected to keep 
the above minutes.
(b) The minutes shall be presented to 
A.C.A.C. in the weekly report of the 
Athletic Representatives.
6. Officers of the board shall be as 
follows:
(a) The Co-chairmen shall be the Ci
vilian Athletic Representative and the 
Army Athletic Representative on the 
A.C.A.C.
(b) A secretary shall be elected to per
form those duties which normally per
tain to his office.
(c) Committees shall be appointed by 
the Chairmen whenever a necessity for 
their creation becomes apparent.
7. Any appropriations that are neces
sary shall be referred to Mr. Eyman, and 
will be handled the same way as the 
previous accounts were handled through 
that office.
Members of this board have been
We offer SPECIAL RATES for 
Cleaning to the ARMY MEN at 
Tech. Quick Service.
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
chosen already and the board has its 
first meeting. The civilian members of 
the board are: John Lindberg, who is the 
Athletic Representative on the A.CA.C., 
Gail Litton, Marvin Goldberger, Charles 
Peterson, and Joe Eiger. These men have 
all had experience on the previous board 
or the now non-existent Intramural Man
agers Club. Representing the Army 
Specialized Training Program are the 
four following men, who were chosen by 
elections held among their contemporaries 
and directed by Colonel Bass: From Com
pany AR. C. Stuler and A. C. Wright; 
from Company BM. Gingold and C. M. 
Fairchild. Fairchild is the Army repre
sentative on the A.C.A.C. and is Co-chair
man of the board.
Entries Called In
All civilian organizations on campus 
were to have their entries in for intra
mural mushball last Saturday at noon, 
and twelve teams entered. There will be 
an Army team for each platoon stationed 
here, and since there are nine platoons, 
there will be a total of twenty-one teams 
participating. Present plans are to have 
the army teams compete with civilian 
teams, and this will be accomplished by 
having both army and civilian teams in 
the leagues to be formed. Competition 
promises to be very keen for the school 
championship this year. The winner will 
receive the usual recognition of a trophy 
to signify his superiority.
It is likely that three or four leagues 
will be formed of the twenty-one com
peting teams when the schedules are to 
be made up. The necessity for so many 
leagues becomes apparent when one con
siders the time element involved. Games 
can be played on only four days of the 
week and there are three diamonds avail
able for use. Plans are to have the sched
ules completed by Wednesday, and com
petition to start the latter part of this 
week. All games will be played between 
the hours of 4:00 P. M. and 5:30 P. M., 
since these times are the most convenient 
for all participants involved. All organ
izations that have entered teams will be 
notified by members of the Intramural 
Board when they are scheduled to play, 
eligibility of participants, and rules of 
competition.
It is the policy of the new Intramural 
Board to further the contacts between the 
civilian students and members of Army 
Specialized Training Program on the 
Tech campus. . An appreciative note is 
added here for Mr. Murphy, Mr. Eyman, 
and Colonel Bass, who helped greatly in 
the organization of the new Intramural 
Board.
NOTICE
Since the intramural softball season is 
about to get under way, an urgent need 
for umpires has arisen to officiate these 
games. All men interested in doing 
work of this kind please notify Mr. Ey
man at the Intramural Office immediately. 
Compensation will be made for work 
done.
THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
------is------
BILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Campus
Headquarters
LEONARDS 
MENS SHOP
Oakland, Cor. Forbes & Atwood St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Tech Tliinclads Lose 
To Oberlin and Pitt
In two track meets during the past 
week, the Carnegie Tartans came out 
second best, once at the hands of the Pitt 
Panthers at Pitt Stadium on Wednesday, 
and on Saturday at the hands of Oberlin 
College at Oberlin.
On Wednesday afternoon the Skibos 
went down to defeat at the hands of the 
boys from the Cathedral of Learning by 
a one-sided score. The Carnegie team 
had had but two weeks of practice in 
comparison to several months for the 
Panthers, and the deficit was too great 
to overtome as the engineers didnt have 
the pull in the stretches which comes 
from long, numerous practices. Pitt took 
first and second in most of the events, 
but, since the Panthers entered but two 
men in each competition, Tech took most 
of the third place points.
The Skibos were thoroughly out
classed by a well conditioned Oberlin 
team and lost to the tune of a 118 to 9 
score. The team was tired out at the 
beginning of the match due to a stand
ing bus ride, and even though they per
formed better than at any time previ
ously this season, the Oberlin cindermen 
were always just a little better.
Coach Halferty took with him a very 
small squad of but sixteen men, and these 
sixteen numbered among them no entries 
in the shotput or the discus, thus giving 
Oberlin clean sweeps in those events. 
Individual honors for the day went to 
Lloyd Duff of Oberlin who took first in 
three events, the high hurdles, the pole 
vault, and the broad jump. Techs best 
performance was given by Jack Sher
wood who finished second in the High 
hurdles.
880 YARD RELAY  Oberlin (Red
mond, Terepka, Van Horn, Hayden) won. 
Time1 min. 34.3 sec.
MILE RUNNelson (O), won; Knipper 
(O), 2; Bell (CIT), 3. Time 4 min. 35 
sec.
440 YARD DASH)Paul (O), won; 
Dupre (O), 2; Trezise (O), 3. Time 
52.4 sec.
100 YARD DASHHay den (O), won; 
Redmond (O), 2; Smith (CIT), 3. Time 
10.3 sec.
120 YARD HIGH HURDLESDuff 
(O), won; Sherwood (CIT), 2; Hamilton 
(O), 3. Time15.8 sec.
SHOTPUT  Robertson (O), won; 
Dupre (O), 2; Trezise (O), 3. Distance 
32 feet, 8 inches.
880 YARD RUNNelson (O), won; 
Dorsey (O), 2; Smith (CIT), 3. Time
2 min., 4 sec.
220 YARD DASHTrezise (O), won;
Van Horn (O), 2; Scherb (CIT), 3. Time 
24.3 sec.
HIGH JUMP  Hamilton (O), won; 
Shave (O), 2; Hacker (O), 3. Height
5 feet, 8inches.
TWO MILE RUNFreeman (O), won; 
Miller (O), 2; Lemmerman, (O), 3. Time 
10 min., 14 sec.
DISCUSRobertson (O), won; Gulick 
(O), 2; Hacker (O), 3. Distance115 
feet, 6 in.
220 YARD LOW HURDLES  Scott 
(O), won; Hamilton (O), 2; Sherwood 
(CIT), 3. Time27.7 sec.
MILE RELAYOberlin (Dupre, Dor
sey, Howe, Paul), won. Time3 min., 
56.6 sec.
BROAD JUMPDuff (O), won; Moore 
(O), 2; Hamilton (O), 3. Distance21 
feet, lO1/^ in.
POLE VAULTDuff (O), won; Howe 
(O), 2; Asten (CIT), 3. Height12 feet,
6 in.
Netters Lose Third 
Straight To Oberlin
Carnegie Techs tennis team suffered its 
third setback of the season Saturday 
afternoon as it lost to Oberlin, 7 to 2, in 
a match played on the Ohio schools 
courts. The Oberlin netters clearly evi
denced their superiority over the Tar
tans by capturing five out of six singles 
matches and two out of three doubles 
matches.
Techs only victory in the singles was 
turned in by A1 Nelesen who defeated his 
number three opponent, Ted Daniels, in 
a tough match, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3. Pollock 
and Griffin, playing number three dou
bles, easily defeated their opponents, 6-4, 
6-3, to notch the only other victory for 
the Skibos.
In the other singles matches, Frank 
Showman, playing number one, was de
feated, 2-6, 2-6. Oberlins number two 
player edged out Dave Edgecomb, 1-6, 
6-8. Jack Hugus at the number four 
spot won his first set, but faded in the 
closing stages and finally lost, 6-2, 8-10, 
4-6. A1 Pollock was defeated, 3-6, 7-9, 
and Moe Munsell finally succumbed after 
a long match, 5-7, 7-5, 4-6. The number 
one and two doubles matches were easy 
victories for the Oberlin duos. Show
man and Nelesen lost, 7-9, 3-6, and the 
Edgecomb-Hugus combination was de
feated, 3-6, 3-6.
In the two previous matches this year, 
Tech lost to Pitt, 6-3, and Penn State 
trounced the Tartan netmen, 8-0. A sec
ond match with Pitt was rained out. No 
future matches have been scheduled for 
the Tech team, but several matches are 
being arranged to keep the team intact 
during the summer.
PITTSBURGH
t 2 0 3 FIFTH AVENUE
*417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. *6223 Frankstown Ave., (E. Liberty)
1302 Market St., Wheeling 
Open Monday Evenings until 9:00
Open Evenings fOpen Monday and Saturday Evening*
ALSO LADY D0U6LAS SHOES $3.45-$4.45-$5.45

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 25, 1943
/7 Kid AhstOH
by Marty Gross
Four Veteran Professors Retire 
After Years of Faithful Service
One of them was from Akron, Ohio. 
He was a tall, good-looking boy, with 
the clipped speech of a New Yorker. He 
seemed to be the spokesman for the group. 
There were four of them in this tworoom suite in Welch Hall; four clean-cut 
youths of 18 and 19, sitting around in 
their undershirts, talking about their new 
home.
You couldnt tell them from a bunch of 
freshman engineers batting the breeze on 
a hot evening, except for what they said. 
They spoke of food and non-coms, both 
good and bad, of long trips on hot rail
road cars, and of home. They spoke of 
life and living, of simple thingsthings 
a college boy never considers, only takes 
for granted. They seemed harder and 
more practical, but still a good bunch of 
kids.
It didnt take much of a hint for him 
to pull out his walletstuffed with pic
tures. He handed them to me. I turned 
them over one-by-one, and I could see 
the life of this toussled haired kid from 
Akron, Ohio, enfold before me. A sweet, 
pert-looking mother, a snapshot of his 
father hugging the poor life out of his 
mom, a picture of his housea small, 
wooden, two-story affair, a photo of him
self sitting proudly on a horse at a nearby 
stable, and a picture of a pretty girl, told 
the story of this youth better than any 
army questionnaire.
I gave a low, polite whistle, handed him 
the picture of the pretty girl, and asked 
if she were his girl. His mouth drew up 
bashfully to the side and smiled. He 
said, Yeh. He fondled the picture, 
handed it back to me, and as if talking 
to himself, muttered. Good kid. There 
isnt much more a guy can say.
It wasn't long before the conversation 
got around to Tech. I made some refer
ence to the fact that they were somewhat 
cramped, having four men in a two-room
Soldiers Invited
The time has come for all good Tech 
women to come to the aid of their coun
try. For the second time in its history, 
Carnegie Tech is playing host to the army 
for the duration, but this time the co-eds 
will be able to add the womens touch to 
the campus affairs. How? Well, the 
Army-Civilian Activities Council is 
sponsoring a get-together dance in This
tle Hall, and Hoot Mon! here is your 
chance to get acquainted. This gala af
fair is scheduled to take place on May 
29, from 8 to 11.
Maizie Rial, the Chairman, has an
nounced that she has secured the services 
of a juke box. Not only that, she told 
this reporter (a military secret of course) 
but the Black Cat will be open for busi
ness.
Usually, at our College dances, there 
are no varied programs. But at this no
date affair (take note), Paul Jones and 
exchange dances, and what have you, 
will be installed. With her committee of 
four Maggie Murphs, Becky Townsend, 
Helen Cummings, Rosemary Dempsey, 
and Helen Robinson, Maizie has set the 
price of admission at 25c for the men. 
We gals, of course can come free. All 
Carnegie Tech students, including men 
and women are invited, and that, of 
course, includes the army men.
Close, Convenient to 
Tech Campus
Barber Shop
4609 FORBES ST.
Corner of Craig & Forbes
suite. Crowded?, they yelled, all at
tempting to jump down my throat at the 
same time. Hell no, this place is 
heaven. A desk of our own, doubledecker bedsand a mattress. At the 
mention of a mattress, he held his hands 
two feet apart, as if to indicate its thick
ness. We all laughed. And the food, 
he continued, just cant be beat. Never 
in all my life have I tasted a steak din
ner like the one we got our first day here. 
And the dietician, he laughingly con
tinued, actually apologized for the meal, 
and promised us better food in the fu
ture. After some of the places Ive hung 
my hat and some of the slop Ive eaten, 
bo>, this is heaven. This isnt the army, 
he continued, its goldbricking. He 
stretched out on the bed and dug his toes 
into the mattress, as if to illustrate his 
point.
He rolled over onto his side and con
tinued. We spent a little time at a 
Southern Universityas part of the army, 
of course. A uniform doesnt mean much 
down there if you happen to be a north
erner. They try to treat you like dirt, 
and they do a pretty good job of it. But 
this towns okay. God, I almost died 
when a guy just walked up and started 
talking to me. This schools okay too. 
Im only out of high school a couple of 
months, and I expected Id go to college 
some day, but I never thought Id land up 
in Carnegie Tech with a uniform on, and 
fifty bucks a month coming in. He 
seemed to like us and I was glad.
It was drawing towards 10:30, and time 
for lights outso I shook hands all around 
and said goodnight. I left Welch Hall, 
and while walking down Margaret Mor
rison Street, I could see the dormitory 
lights go out one by one, until it was 
dark and quiet. He liked Pittsburgh, and 
I had a hunch it wouldnt be long till the 
feeling was mutual.
And if at any time you see a platoon 
of the boys marching briskly down Mar
garet Morrison Street, and theres one 
kid in the last squad who is playfully 
skipping along, and gives you a friendly 
wink when you smile at himwell, you 
can bet your bottom dollar that hes the 
toussled-haired kid from Akron, Ohio.
Army Moves In
Continued from page one . . . 
sleeves of several soldiers denote their 
rank. Red and blue stands for a platoon 
or section leader, and white stands for a 
Charge of Quarters Officer. Other offi
cer positions are: a Cadet Captain and a 
1st Sergeant in charge of each company, 
and Squad leaders. Although no ad
vancement in rank is assured after com
pletion of any part of the course, recom
mendations for advancement will be of
fered.
These recommendations will be of 
three kinds. The first is to the rank of a 
technical non-commissioned officer. The 
second is entrance into Officers Candidate 
School. The third recommendation is 
return to their former units as privates. 
These recommendations will depend on 
the number of terms completed at Car
negie Tech.
The addition of the soldiers to the 
campus has brought about many changes 
in the setup of school life. The boys 
dormitories on Margaret Morrison Street 
have been converted into barracks. Skibo 
Inn, long a landmark of Carnegie Tech, 
is now to be a Post Exchange. The 
Beanery, the former gathering place of 
dramats, secretarials and engineers, is 
now a mess hall.
The students willingly sacrifice these 
features of their former campus life to 
aid the Army in its Specialized Training 
Course.
Honest Prices Faithful Promises
A Service You Will 
Appreciate
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
4526 Forbes St.MA. 9728
The retirement of four veteran faculty 
members at the end of the school year 
has been announced by the Board of 
Trustees of Carnegie Tech. At the same 
time, the title of Professor Emeritus was 
conferred on two of them, Professors 
Trinks and Dunne 11s.
Heading the list is Professor Willibald 
Trinks of the Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, who has been on leave of 
absence during the past year, directing 
a research project on defense materials 
for the American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers under the sponsorship of the 
Ordnance Department of the United 
States Government. Professor Trinks 
joined the faculty of the Carnegie Tech
nical Schools in 1905 as one of the orig
inal members, and served for 38 years 
as head of the Mechanical Engineering 
Department.
Professor Trinks is the author of two 
books on governors, two on industrial 
furnaces, and three volumes on roll pass 
design, which have been translated into 
German, French, and Russian. His work 
on roll pass design has long been con
sidered authoritative in that field. In 
addition to teaching and writing, Pro
fessor Trinks has served as consulting en
gineer to several large steel companies.
Professor Emeritus Clifford G. Dunnells has served on the Tech faculty since 
1910 and as head of the Department of 
stitute, National Academy, New York, 
and many other galleries. He received 
Building Construction from 1912 until
the consolidation of the College of Indus
tries with the College of Engineering in 
1932. Since that date, he has been Pro
fessor of Civil Engineering. Like Pro
fessor Trinks, Professor Dunnells has 
been actively engaged in consulting work. 
He has been an active member of the 
faculty, serving on the Educational Sen
ate and Executive Committee.
Also retired at this time are Norwood 
MacGilvary, Associate Professor of paint
ing and design, and Morris R. Trexler, 
instructor in the Department of Manage
ment Engineering, who have been on the 
faculty 22 and 24 years, respectively. Mr. 
MacGilvary came to Carnegie Tech in 
1921 from Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. 
His paintings have been exhibited in the 
Carnegie International, the Corcoran Art 
Gallery, Washington, the Chicago Art Inthe Silver Medal at the Panama Pacific 
International Exposition and he has also 
won first prize in the Associated Artists 
of Pittsburgh. Mr. Trexler, a graduate of 
Lafayette College, joined the Tech fac
ulty in 1919 as instructor in accounting. 
He developed the specialized courses in 
accounting for the printing students and 
for students in heating and ventilating; 
and his work was coordinated into that 
of the Department of Management En
gineering when that department took over 
the works management course in 1932. 
Before coming to Carnegie Tech, Mr. 
Trexler had had considerable experience 
both in teaching and business.
Rain Bothers Student From Alaska
by Seymour Corwijt
It certainly rains a lot!
This is one opinion of Pittsburgh by 
Robert Dunsmoore, a freshman engineer 
from Sitka, Alaska! But dont get Bob 
wrong, because actually he likes our 
fair and smoky city very much.
Bob is a rather tall boy with light 
brown hair and a pleasant smile. He 
doesnt reflect the weather of Sewards 
Icebox, for he has a very cheerful per
sonality. Actually, Bob was born in the 
East and later moved to the state of 
Washington. He jhas been living in 
Alaska for the last two years.
Bob, like other Alaskans, likes to hunt 
and fish. He tells enthusiastically his 
experiences hunting bears and reindeer in 
the Northern woods. Alaskan bears, are 
not very playful; some of them, when 
stading on their hind legs, tower as high 
as twelve feet. He grinned as he told 
me that the people of Alaska are advised 
whenever they walk through the woods 
to carry a high-powered rifle with them. 
Fishing is very different in Alaska than 
it is here. Bob said that he usually
C. S. EDMAN 
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT-------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Crate Street
throws back any fish that are under 
eleven inches.
As far as Bob is concerned, Alaska is 
the land of promise. It is wide open to 
engineers, especially to metallurgical en
gineers, since it is very abundant in min
erals. But Bob is studying to be a chem
ical engineer and doesnt expect to help 
mine any of Alaskas valuable resources. 
Now, with the completion of the new road 
through Canada to Alaska, his country 
will be right at Americas backdoor.
I was sorry that the interview had to 
end so soon, for I was becoming so very 
interested in Alaska and Bob that I al
most forgot to go to class. Bob says that 
he certainly like Carnegie Tech, and 
Im certain that Carnegie Tech will like 
Bob Dunsmoore.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to RentTYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
