Volume 94, Issue 22tartan@andrew.cmu.edu17 April 2000
Sweepstakes safety Booth collapse injures Carnival visitors 
remains top priority
News Analysis
by Ish HarshawatEditor-in-Chief
Sweepstakes, the traditional 
buggy race during Spring Carnival, 
has been no stranger to tragedy in 
the past. In 1972, a student was par
alyzed in a buggy accident. Earlier 
this semester, a CMU student nearly 
lost her eye during free roll prac
tices.
Though the race and the practices 
that lead up to it are safer than in 
years past, there is still an ever-present risk with Buggy that may call 
into question the long-term viability 
of an event that dates back to the 
1920s.
Were in danger of having the 
tradition wiped away by the tiniest 
things, said Debbie Kellar, the a 
masters student in the Heinz school 
and Sweepstakes chair for the last 
two years. We lack the community 
support [Sweepstakes] used to 
have.
Though the CMU administration 
is fully supportive of the tradition, 
Sweepstakes must request permits 
and permission from the city and 
Phipps conservatory in order to 
close off streets and use the 
Schenley Park roadways. Schenley 
Park is a major traffic artery that 
must be shut down during frequent 
freeroll practices throughout the 
year, and on race day.
The reality is there are a lot of 
people that dont like the idea of 
shutting down Schenley, said
Jennifer Church, assistant dean of 
student affairs and a administrative 
advisor for Sweepstakes for the past 
five years.
On Friday, during the preliminary 
mens heats, a Spirit buggy spun out 
to mechanical failure and was dis
qualified. No one was hurt in the 
accident, and spin outs of this type 
are always frequent during both 
freeroll practice and on race day.
In addition, Phi Kappa Theta 
(PhiKap) was disqualified after the 
preliminary races on Friday after 
after failing a drop test, used to test 
the brakes on the buggy.
According to Nicholas Lee, 
PhiKap buggy chairman Nicholas 
Lee, and junior in mechanical engi
neering, the driver did not see the 
flag, and so did not brake in time. 
He said he did not feel that the dis
qualification was justified.
PhiKap was given a second drop 
test and passed. That result was 
thrown out after it was determined 
that there was not a reason to have 
retried the test, according to 
Michael Doherty, Sweepstakes safe
ty chairman and senior electrical 
and computer engineering major.
In general virtually every single 
team has done the utmost to follow 
safety guidelines, said Doherty.
However, this year there were a 
few serious incidents during prac
tices.
Earlier in the semester a PhiKap 
driver lost her vision while rolling 
and hit her head against the buggys 
steering mechanism. Sweepstakes 
safety rules state that drivers must 
wear protective gear, including a 
See BUGGY, page 3
by Seth MandelManaging Editor
& Sara StilleNews Editor
Attention was diverted from this 
weekends Carnival festivities when 
a structural accident occurred at 
one of the booths on Midway. 
Students gathered around the area 
as police cars, fire trucks, ambu
lances, and television reporters 
responded to the scene.
At about 7:10 on Friday night, a 
platform on the second floor of
Alpha Epsilon Pi (AEPi)s Easter 
Island carnival booth collapsed. 
CMU-EMS reported that there were 
six reported injuries at the scene, 
three of whom were taken to local 
hospitals by ambulance. Campus 
police reported that among the 
injured were three CMU students 
with head lacerations, an eightyear-old girl with an arm injury, 
and a CMU students girlfriend with 
a laceration of the buttocks.
Since CMU-EMS reports only list 
victims that were treated or offered 
treatment, it is possible that there 
were additional individuals who
left the scene on their own with 
minor injuries. AEPi fraternity 
brothers reported to Campus Police 
that about ten people were present 
on the second floor of the booth 
during the accident.
According to witnesses, people 
were jumping on a suspended rope 
bridge above the entrance prior to 
the accident. The bridge remained 
intact after the second floor had 
collapsed, police reports said.
Several people were bouncing 
on the bridge next to the platform 
only a short time before the acci
dent, said Matt Longnecker, a firstBehnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
A crowd gathered around AEPis booth on Friday night when police arrived to assess the situation. According to wit
nesses, people were jumping in the booth when the second floor fell in and injured several Carnival visitors.Morewood Recreation Room conversion causes controversy
year electrical and computer engi
neering major, who was in the 
booth during the accident. From 
what I could tell during the acci
dent, the side of the platform near
est the bridge broke and fell. The 
bridge and the people on it did not 
fall, although the bridges supports 
were damaged.
It was a slow fall. One second I 
was standing on the platform 
watching a friend playing the game 
and then all of a sudden we were 
falling, said Jessica Lensch, a firstyear materials science and engi
neering major who received some 
minor scrapes and bruises w^tile in . 
the booth during the collapse.
After the accident, the booth was 
closed for safety reasons, as were 
the neighboring Kappa Sigma, TIA, 
Graduate Student Association, and 
Sigma Tau booths.
Robert Anderegg, the senior 
facilities safety analyst in 
Environmental Health and Safety; 
and CMU carpenters inspected the . 
structure after the accident. The 
booth was demolished Friday night ' 
and removed by CMU carpenters. .
Anderegg is one of the people in 
charge of checking the safety and 
stability of the booths on Midway. 
He said they have a three person 
review team to check each booth 
before it is opened.
As far as I was concerned, this 
structure was stable, said 
Anderegg. He said that he thought 
the main reason for its collapse was 
the stress from jumping students.
There is some question, however, 
as to what the definition of stable is 
and what types of stresses the struc
ture should be able to handle, said 
some witnesses.
See BOOTH, page 3'
CMU Board of Trustees reviews same-sex health benefits policy
by Jennifer ResickStaffwriter
Despite controversy as to how the 
area should used, residents of 
Morewood Gardens may be sharing 
more of their residence hall with 
the children from the Cyert Center 
for Early Education next year. Plans 
are underway for a conversion of 
Morewoods recreation room into 
additional space for the day care 
center also located in the building. 
The conversion is expected to take 
place this summer to be ready for 
the fall semester.
The . Cyert Center for Early 
Education primarily provides day 
care for children of CMU faculty, 
staff, and graduate students. The 
center currently accommodates 110 
students. The planned expansion 
into Morewood would provide 
room for about 25 additional stu
dents.
Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC) was informed of the plans on 
April 5. We are extremely disap
pointed with the inability of the 
administration to inform the stu
dents in a timely manner.... We are 
now in the position of having three 
weeks to come up with a solution 
that can be implemented over the 
summer, said Harry Tsang, chair 
of the SDC Housing and Student 
Life committee.
Michael Murphy, the dean of 
Student Affairs, said he is commit
ted to working with SDC and stu
dent leaders to reach an agree
ment. Given the fact that this came 
about so late in the semester and 
the process of involving students 
was not ideal, the student leaders 
have been great in working togeth
er to quickly move us forward, said 
Murphy.
The current plan involves moving 
the recreation room into the 
.Morewood television and study
rooms and possibly the cluster. The 
floor lounges in Morewood would 
be refurbished for different uses 
such as television, study, and meet
ing areas.
The proposal that was presented 
to SDC included the loss of 14 beds 
in Morewood. We feel that is unac
ceptable and are working to make 
that number zero, said Tsang.
I suggest moving the first-floor 
administrative offices in Morewood 
out in order to accommodate the 
need for extra space. Why make the 
students suffer because of a deci
sion of the administration, said 
Christina Lamano, a first-year psy
chology major.
While several students such as 
Lamano feel that the conversion is 
punishing the residents of 
Morewood, others seem to feel that 
the change would have little effect 
on their happiness in the hall. 
Unless the environment is shown
See ROOM, page 3
by Anne RayContributing Editor
Last week, the Faculty Senate Committee voted to 
support a proposal to grant-health benefits to same-sex 
domestic partners. The policy implications of this pro
posal, however, are still quite a few steps away from 
implementation, leaving much more debate to follow in 
the coming months.
The Faculty Senate Committee endorsed the report 
compiled by the Human Relations Commission (HRC), 
chaired by Professor Toby Davis, by a vote of 16-2 with 
one abstention. The next step will be to hand the report 
over for review by the executive committee of the 
University's Board of Trustees, which next meets on May 
22, the Monday following Commencement. If the exec
utive commitee endorses the proposal, the entire Board 
of Trustees will then be asked for their decision. If the 
above groups approve the policy suggested by the HRCs 
report, then an implementation process can be started 
at CMU.
Davis said that these groups could vote against the 
proposal at any point.
I hope this goes well the rest of the way, Davis said. 
He has been working on gathering research and input
Toby Davis, a professor in social and decision sciences, is 
the chair for the Human Relations Committee which has 
been investigating the same-sex health benefits proposal.
from the campus community through a series of hear
ings and discussions since 1997, when then-President 
Robert Merahbian requested that the issue be investi
gated.
Jay Kadane, chair of the Faculty Senate Committee, 
stressed that the committee endorsed the proposal and 
the idea that people do not have to be married to receive 
benefits.
What were talking about now is the policy decision 
See BENEFITS, page 3
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Business
Complete analysis of this past weeks col
lapse on the NASDAQ and Dow Jones.
page 5
Forum
Dave Anderson discusses the dilemma 
surrounding the immigration of American 
children forced by Haitian parents.
page 6 
Sports
The tennis and track teams continue their 
spring meets in preparation for UAA 
championships later this month.
page 10
Carnival 2000
Check out carnival - mens and womens 
buggy, Mobot, and booth winners!
Tuesday Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since 1Q06
Hi 55/Lo 45 6 r r
WEDNESDAY
FRIDAYTHE TARTAN
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
President Cohon and Matthew Silverstein, a senior electrical and computer engineering major and Spring 
Carniyal Chair, welcomed attendees to Spring Carnival 00 during the Opening Ceremonies last Thursday. 
This years theme was Around the World: How far can you get in a weekend?. The Midway featured booths 
portraying the.Wild West, Ancient Egypt, the Statue of Liberty, and Alaska.
Calendar
Always wondered what Knaidlech tastes 
like? Turn here to find the recipe.
page 12
Great tunes, great shows, and great 
laughs highlight Carnival weekend.
Special Section
7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 17, 2000
pmething to 
smile about!
National News
Russian lawmakers OK START II
MOSCOW (AP)  Ending years 
of deadlock, lawmakers on Friday 
^approved the START II treaty to 
.scrap thousands of U.S. and 
Russian nuclear warheads, but the 
government warned it would aban
don all arms-control pacts if 
Washington goes ahead with an 
anti-missile system.
The swift approval of START II 
.was President Vladimir Putins first 
jnajor foreign policy action and 
underlined his strong authority and 
the willingness of the new centrist 
majority in parliament to work with 
the government.
Putin, who took the unusual step 
gf attending the debate to urge rat
ification, warned that Moscow 
would pull out of arms agreements 
,if the United States breaches the \972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.
. I want to stress that in this case, 
we will have the chance and we will 
withdraw not only from the START 
II treaty, but from the whole system 
of treaties on limitation and control 
of strategic and conventional 
weapons, he told deputies before 
,the vote.
. > The State Duma, the lower cham
ber of parliament, easily approved 
START II by a vote of 288 to 131. 
Communists and hard-liners in the 
Duma had for years blocked the 
pact, which was ratified by the U.S. 
Senate in 1996.
START II would halve U.S. and 
Russian nuclear arsenals to 
.3,000-3,500 warheads each by the 
.end of 2007. A new treaty, START 
IIII, which is being discussed, envis
ages cuts to 1,500-2,500 warheads.
 Approval of START II is likely to
boost Moscows ties with 
Washington, strained by Chechnya 
and other disputes. It may also soft
en the image of Putin, whose call to 
restore Russia as a great power has 
alarmed some Western officials.
Secretary of State Madeleine 
Albright, on a visit to Ukraine, 
hailed the vote. I congratulate the 
Russian people on the Dumas deci
sive ratification of the START II 
treaty. This is a big step forward, 
she said.
The treaty must now be ratified 
by the Federation Council, the 
upper chamber of parliament, 
which is expected to approve it.
While the West will welcome 
approval of START II, it may lead to 
new friction with Washington over 
the 1972 ABM treaty.
Washington wants to amend the 
treaty to build a limited missiledefense system against possible 
attacks from rogue states such as 
North Korea.
Russia vehemently opposes the 
plan, saying it would make its own 
forces ineffective and trigger a new 
arms race. Washington insists the 
system would not be able to 
counter a major attack and does not 
pose a threat to Russia.
Putin warned several times 
Friday that Moscow would not 
accept changes in the ABM treaty. 
The ball is in their [the 
Americans] court, he said.
The Duma approved a nonbind
ing resolution stipulating that 
Russia would have the right to 
revoke START II if Washington 
breaks the ABM agreement.
Analysts downplayed some of
Putins tough talk, saying it may be 
aimed at appeasingnationalists 
and that Moscow is interested in 
preserving good ties with 
Washington and does not want a 
serious breach over the ABM treaty.
Putin may accept a deal on the 
ABM treaty, possibly in return for 
Washington agreeing to relax a ban 
on multiple warheads on landbased missiles  something the 
Russian military favors, they said.
Putin said Russia had to avoid a 
new international arms race and 
that START II and III would cut 
Moscows bill for nuclear forces by 
more than half over the next 
decade. He said the money could be 
used to boost the countrys crum
bling conventional forces.
It preserves a powerful nuclear 
shield, but also allows us to channel 
funds to the support of the conven
tional forces and allows us to make 
our army more combat ready, he 
said.
The Duma approved a 1997.U.S.- 
Russian protocol to START II that 
extends the deadline for Russia to 
scrap nuclear weapons from 2003 
to 2007. The U.S. Senate has yet to 
approve this amendment to the 
treaty.
The easy victory for START II 
demonstrated the power of the 
Dumas new centrist majority, 
which replaced years of 
Communist control after elections 
in December. Putin and the cen
trists are expected to work together, 
ending the bitter rivalry between 
the Communists and ex-President 
Boris Yeltsin that often paralyzed 
the government.
Japan eyes endangered species trade
; NAIROBI, Kenya (AP)  Japan 
on Thursday defended its support 
for reopening trade in elephant 
ivory, hawksbill turtles, and 
whales, saying the species are plen
tiful enough to be traded on a limit
ed scale.
Akira Takamatsu, head of Japans 
delegation to a 10-day U.N. confer
ence on endangered animals, said 
the three species were safe from 
extinction.
Zimbabwe, South Africa, 
Botswana, and Namibia want 
approval from the U.N. Convention 
on International Trade in 
Endangered Species, or CITES, to
sell ivory. They say the elephant 
population has rebounded in their 
countries and argue they should be 
allowed to control the herds and 
reap the benefits.
In 1997, the convention autho
rized a one-time sale of 54 tons of 
ivory to Japan from Namibia, 
Zimbabwe and Botswana.
Takamatsu called the sale a suc
cess, saying it did not create any 
poaching.
Japan also supports Cubas pro
posal to reopen trade in the hawks
bill turtle, which are used for jewel
ry. Cuba wants to make a one-time 
sale of the shells to Japan and
Man goes to jail 
for pet killings
WEST BEND, Wis. (AP)  A man 
who killed eight of his wifes pets to 
punish her for having an abortion 
was sentenced to seven months in 
jail.Leonard J. Kritz, 22, stabbed or 
cut the heads off his wifes pets  
including birds, snakes and a chin
chilla  in April 1999, saying it was 
necessary to teach her a lesson 
about the importance of life.
He pleaded no contest to reduced 
charges of three misdemeanor 
counts of cruelty to animals.
Washington County Circuit Judge 
Leo Schlaefer said Thursday he was 
not sure the defendants actions 
were in response to the abortion.
Regardless of the philosophical 
or religious position one takes on 
abortion, theres absolutely no reaobtain a quota for future sales 
under CITES.
Every information we have 
shows that their population ... is 
increasing, said Masayuki 
Sakamoto, head of Japans Wildlife 
Conservation Society.
Japan also wants the convention 
to allow limited trade in minke 
whales. It also opposes any tradelimits on sharks, saying no scientif
ic data shows they are threatened 
withextinction, Sakamoto said.
United States, Britain and 
Australia are urging limits on sales 
of the basking whale, and the great 
white sharks.
Corrections & ClarificationsThe Tartan corrects all known errors of fact:. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
In Issue 21, it was stated that the T3 Conference took place at Soldiers and Sailors Hall. Actually, it was at the 
Andy Warhol Museum.
son to be violent, Schlaefer said.
At the sentencing hearing, Stacy 
Kritz, 20, said the killing of her pets 
was agreed upon, as part of a pun
ishment by both of them.
Defense attorney Jeremy Przybyla 
said Kritz had developed a stronger 
relationship with his wife as a result 
of the incident.
Kritz is scheduled to begin his sen
tence June 12, after the birth of a 
child the couple is now expecting.
Journalist loses 
porn appeal
RICHMOND, Va. (AP)  A jour
nalist sent to prison for distributing 
child pornography he claimed was 
part of his research has lost a feder
al appeal.
Larry Matthews of Silver Spring, 
Md., never disputed that he traded
about 160 pornographic pictures 
over the Internet, but said he didnt 
know it was illegal. He said it was 
part of his research as a freelance 
journalist and was protected by the 
First Amendment.
A federal judge refused to allow a 
First Amendment defense, and 
Matthews pleaded guilty in July 
1998. He was sentenced to 18 
months in prison.
Matthews appealed based on the 
judges First Amendment ruling.
In the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals ruling Thursday, Judge 
Diana Motz said that distribution of 
child pornography is a particularly 
egregious crime and that the law 
makes no exception for journalists.
The Reporters Committee for 
Freedom of the Press, based in 
Arlington, Va., filed a brief in the 
case arguing that Matthews should 
have been allowed to present a First 
Amendment defense.
World News
Third World 
leaders work to 
ease poverty
HAVANA (AP)  Representing 80 
percent of Earths population, lead
ers of developing nations on Friday 
called for a New Global Human 
Order to spread the worlds wealth 
and power.
One day, humankind will be 
called to account: How come you 
never made no connection between 
growing poverty for the many and 
booming wealth for a few? Belizes 
Prime Minister Said Musa told a 
summit in Havana.
The three-day summit was the 
first by the Group of 77, which has 
expanded to 133 countries since its 
founding in 1964. It saw the group 
expand from a U.N. lobbying bloc 
into a more formal organization 
meant to negotiate with groups of 
wealthy nations.
Dozens of presidents and prime 
ministers complained that global
ization of the worlds economic and 
information systems had done little 
but damage their countries, despite 
their great promise.
Draft resolutions due to be adopt
ed late Friday called for a shake-up 
of the world financial system to give 
developing countries greater say 
over economic and trade policies, 
for forgiveness of foreign debts and 
for sharply increased foreign aid.The summit came on the eve of a 
meeting starting Sunday in 
Washington of the International 
Monetary Fund and World Bank; 
two organizations sharply criticized 
by many leaders here who claim 
they force governments to make 
painful policy changes in exchange 
for aid.
They told us these measures
would stabilize our economy, Musa 
told the summit. Instead, they have 
stabilized poverty.
The World Bank reported 
Thursday that the global financial 
crisis of 1997-98 had dealt a setback 
to efforts to relieve poverty. Some 
1.2 billion people were forced to sur
vive on less than $1 a day in 1998, it 
said. Fifty-seven percent of the 
worlds population existed on just 
six percent of the worlds income.
The summit said the United 
Nations should take a stronger role 
in economic affairs and called for 
delegates from the Group of 77 to 
negotiate with groups of wealthy 
countries.
Forty heads of state or govern
ment and 80 other delegations took 
part in the summit.
87 die as 
Philippine boat 
capsizes
JOLO, Philippines (AP)  No life 
vests were available for scores of 
illegal passengers on an overloaded 
Philippine boat that capsized, killing 
at least 87 people, survivors said 
today.
Dozens of other passengers 
remained missing more than a day 
after the wooden-hulled Annahada 
capsized shortly after leaving Jolo, 
the capital of remote Sulu-province, 
en route to Malaysias Sabah state.
Navy ships and fishermen recov
ered or spotted 31 more bodies this 
morning, bringing the confirmed 
death toll to at least 87, Sulu provin
cial police chief Candido Casimiro 
said.
Somber families searched 
through the lined-up bodies at Jolos 
pier looking for relatives.
The cargo vessel was not autho
rized to carry passengers but had 
picked up about 150 to 200 people 
at sea from small boats after leaving 
Jolo on Wednesday night, officials 
said.
Some of the passengers apparent
ly planned to enter Malaysia illegal
ly. There were no immediate reports 
of whether foreigners were on 
board.
Bibing Limpisan, a survivor being 
treated at a hospital in Jolo, said the 
passengers were crowded on one 
side of the boat and a cargo of fuel in 
barrels was on other side. The boat 
capsized less than an hour after it 
left Jolo, she said.
Aida Amil, another survivor, said 
only she and a sister survived out of 
her family of eight.
Many of the passengers, she said, 
were crowded under a tarp on the 
deck for protection from rain. When 
the boat capsized, they were unable 
to cut through the tarp and were 
trapped under it.people were shouting help, 
help, she said. Life vests were not 
available and the crew gave no 
warning, she said.
About 100 fishermen helped the 
navy and coast guard search for the 
missing passengers, but were ham
pered by rain and heavy winds, said 
Abdusakur Tan, governor of Sulu 
province, at the Philippines south
ern tip.
So far, 79 people had been res
cued, including 16 people who were 
hospitalized, deputy coast guard 
commander Reuben Lista said.
The capsized boat was towed back 
to Jolo, where it lay today on its side 
near a pier, a hole in its hull, with 
children playing on top of it.
Acrow dgat (41 2) 734-2662
694 Lincoln Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15202
SOLUTIO
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMO shuttle to our front door  200 North Craig Street
Call 681-8011
hecau nErP 
ciucwcw
h sbccF 
yplEvcrEga 
yp.wcaE
-*-
When youre pregnant, 
sometimes all you can 
think of are the problems. 
We'll help you find 
the solutions.
Bethany
CHRISTIAN SERVICES/
www.bethany.orgAsk about our CMCI Dental Plan!
Gentle Airjet Dentist] 
Prompt Emergency Car] 
Personaliz
____________
h,Pppwc rPc 
uag rPgr dErw 
jp. mcwr

---------------------------------------------------

I
THE TARTAN  APRIL 17, 2000
Booth collapse results in 
minor injuries, disruption
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
The fire department and police department both reported to the scene when 
AEPis booth collapsed last Friday night. Six people were treated by EMS.
Buggy accidents bring tradition into question
BOOTH, from page 1 
Anderegg said that this incident 
will result in tougher regulations for 
booth construction in the future. He 
said that there is a possibility that 
booth size might be limited and that 
they might also contemplate 
restricting booths to single-story 
structures. He said that not too 
many organizations build full twostory structures now anyway, so it 
might be better to just prohibit it.
Once Campus Police has com
pleted their investigation, we will be 
studying the matter very closely, 
said Michael Murphy, dean of 
Student Affairs. It would be prema
ture for me to speculate on what 
might have contributed to the inci
dent, or whether we need to change 
any specific policies, or protocols, 
but we certainly need to take every 
precaution to make sure this type of 
incident never recurs.
Members of the local fraternity 
deferred questions to Adam Aronin, 
Director of Risk Management for the 
national AEPi fraternity, who said 
the national fraternity will be han
dling the matter. We want them to
concentrate 'on their studies and 
school work. They have taken it 
hard this past weekend and were 
very upset. We want to take the 
stress and pressure off so they can 
focus on their education, he said.
From the information Ive 
received, everything had been 
approved by the fire department 
and the. University, Aronin said. 
The fraternity followed proper 
rules and procedures in what they 
did. They fully cooperated with the 
University before and after the inci
dent, he said.
The team response from stu
dents, staff and the city ... was 
remarkable. We were fortunate to 
have so many good and talented 
people involved in the aftermath of 
the incident, said Murphy.
This is not the first time an AEPi 
booth has collapsed. In 1995, three 
AEPi brothers were injured while 
constructing their booth. According 
to witnesses, the accident occurred 
while the roof was being installed. 
Construction resumed shortly after 
the accident and the booth held up 
throughout the rest of Carnival.
BUGGY, from page 1 
helmet and safety goggles. The 
PhiKap driver was not wearing her 
goggles, and what resulted was a 
serious cut near her eye that 
required stitches.
Phi Kappa Theta was assessed a 
$100 fine as a result of the incident, 
according to Lee.A week before race day, Fringe 
had two accidents. In the first inci
dent on Thursday, April 6, after Hill 
3 off the course, a buggy was 
pushed of course, and ran into a 
parked car. The buggy ws lodged 
under the car so that extricating the 
driver was impossible without 
opening the buggy. As a result the 
Pittsburgh fire department resorted 
to opening the buggy with a pneu
matic chisel. The student went to 
the hospital, but had no serious 
injuries. Co-head Fringe mechanics 
Tom Kelleher, a fourth-year archi
tecture student, and Ken Billet, a 
senior industrial management 
major, said they were upset that the 
fire department had used the chis
el, and did not think it was th 
safest way of removing the driver. 
All you needed was a pair of ten 
snaps. [The driver] was trying to 
tell them to stop, said Kelleher.
BENEFITS, from page 1 
of whether to do this or not to do 
it, he said.
If the Board of Trustees approves 
the proposal in full, Kadane surmis
es that implementation of a working 
policy should come quickly. Criteria 
will be developed to determine qual
ifications to receive benefits.
Theres such a pattern about 
how this is done that really its like
ly to be fairly simple in that there 
are [many] universities that 
already have benefits of this kind, 
said Kadane.
Daviss research with the HRC 
also shows example policies from 
universities such as Northwestern,
They didn't ask us what to do to 
get her out. That was really poor on 
their part, said Billet.
On the following Saturday, 
another Fringe buggy lost control 
as it was going through the chute 
and hit protective hay bales at 
about 25 miles per hour. The driver 
hurt her back and went to the hos
pital, but did not experience any 
major injuries.
I know these accidents were 
more serious for us than weve ever 
seen. But I think they were just ran
dom incidents, said Janice 
Golenbock, a junior computer sci
ence major, head driver for Fringe, 
who was the person involved in the 
accident on Saturday.
Kelleher said he had heard 
rumors that there was a oil spot on 
the roads Saturday that might have 
caused the incident. Both Fringe 
mechanics said they felt the acci
dents were not related, and could 
have happened to anybody. If 
some of the teams had the acci
dents we had we would have seen 
more damage, said Billet. There 
are some organizations that are 
really irresponsible, Kelleher said. 
According to both mechanics, safe
ty is their first priority when
Princeton, and MIT. These universi
ty policies include criteria such as 
length of time as a couple, owning 
property, the beneficiaries of wills, 
and other standards. The 
University grants health benefits to 
children of employees regardless of 
any family status.
Despite these examples to draw 
from, Davis said, there was no way 
to satisfy all the varying voices 
speaking on this issue.
It was very easy for me to get 
people to testify at hearings if they 
were in favor of this change in poli
cy, said Davis. It was much more 
difficult for me to get the other 
sides, and I had to find ways to find
designing and running their bug
gies.
Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC) also had three spin-outs dur
ing practices this year, but none 
proved to be serious accidents.
According to Anne Witchner, 
associate dean of student affairs, 
and Sweepstakes advisor for 20 
years, teams that arent as experi
enced are the ones that might be at 
risk for the greatest injury. These 
are the organizations that dont 
have as much support and experi
ence from previous members. 
Theres a high correlation between 
successful buggy and safety, said 
Witchner.
According to Witchner, buggy 
safety has improved over the years. 
There have been no life-threatening 
accidents in the past few years. In 
1972 a student was paralyzed from 
the waist down.
It wouldnt happen today, said 
Church. In 1987, an Alumni 
Committee turned 14 pages of 
Sweepstakes rules into 105. 
Though Witchner thinks that rules 
might possibly be too detailed, she 
said they have contributed to safer 
races and practices. As little as 15 
years ago, there were no rules that
out peoples opinions.
Although the proposal deliber
ately examines the issue from the 
viewpoint of offering benefits to 
qualified couples, and does not 
specifically delineate between het
erosexual and homosexual couples, 
gay marriage was brought up as a 
concern, said Davis.
There are some people who fear 
that this a step in the road towards 
recognition of gay marriage, Davis 
said. The HRC considered this in a 
matter of benefits but of course we 
argued about it and discussed the 
wider context.
Other concerns included the pos
sibility that non-committed partrequired helmets or harnesses. 
Other changes included the elimi
nation of two-wheeled buggies, 
and retractable push-bars. We 
werent really running buggy as 
safely as we could, said Witchner.
Though buggy safety is the high
est priority for nearly all teams and 
Sweepstakes chairmans, there is 
still always a risk. Often times acci
dents happen, said Church. 
Problems include potholes in the 
road, uneven roads, and poor 
weather conditions. In addition, 
according to Kellar and Witchnei, 
the technology for buggies is chang
ing. Though they are put to rigorous 
safety tests, racing teams can not 
always test for every complication.
Safety will always continue to be a 
problem, said Witchner. Safety rules 
and buggy guidelines are continually 
looked at, however, with the hope of 
preventing any serious accidents. 
Were not crash-testing our buggies. 
Maybe we should.be, said Witchner.
As for losing the tradition, there 
is no immediate risk, said Witchner.
If the accident was due to 
absolute negligence on our part. If 
something was absolutely so. stupid 
I could see that happening and that 
would be unfortunate, she said.
ners would ask for benefits, but 
Davis said that no other universities 
examined reported any such cases. 
In addition, religion  a popular 
divide thats hard to cross, Davis 
saidwas, and will continue to be, 
a source of opposition. Even still, 
Davis hopes the policy will pass. 
We proposed what we thinkis 
right, he said, and in the best 
interest of the University. Werte 
hoping that those who are opposed 
will interpret their opposition -in 
light of respect for each other and 
understand that we dont always 
have to agree and that certainly 
theyre not endorsing a lifestyle 
they dont agree with.
Debate on same-sex health benefits policy continues
Crime and Incident Report
4/12 THEFT, 12:49 AM  Campus Police was dis
patched to the Purnell Center Student Lounge to inves
tigate a theft report. The victim told Campus Police that 
he had set his black Polo Sport coat (valued at around 
$150.00) on the floor next to the Purnell Center Coke 
machine and then went to Chosky Theatre to work for 
about four hours. He then came back and noticed that 
his coat was gone. The victim was advised never to 
leave personal items unattended.
4/12 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 
2:55 PM  Upon reporting to Baker Hall, Campus 
Police spoke with the victim, who said that once a week 
for the past four weeks, she had received answering 
machine messages where music is being played. The 
latest call had the caller playing the song What do you 
do when you fall in love, on her machine. The victim 
was advised to contact campus police if the calls contin
ue.
4/12 MEDICAL/INCIDENT, 11:50 PM  A
Campus Police officer was dispatched to the Physical 
Plant building to investigate an unknown individual 
lying on the ground underneath the entrance ramp. 
The unknown individual was described as a white male 
between 30 and 40 years old. Campus Police searched 
the area upon arrival, but with negative results. Police 
and EMS later found the male in the Wean Hall first 
floor stairwell. EMS noticed that the male had blood 
coming from his nose, and inquired as to whether he 
needed treatment. The male made an obscene gesture
with his middle finger, and proceeded to flee the scene 
via stairwell.
4/14 MEDICAL/INTOXICATION, 10:56 AM 
Campus police was notified that a female was stagger
ing across Forbes Avenue heading north on Beeler 
Street. Upon conversing with the female, it was 
revealed to Campus Police that she was a CMU student 
who had been drinking since 11 pm the previous 
evening. She was of the legal age to drink, but could not 
remember when she stopped drinking and how much 
she drank. Campus Police accompanied the female 
back to her apartment until she sobered up. If seen 
again, she will be issued a citation for Public 
Intoxication and Disorderly Conduct.
 Campus Chief of Police James Lapaglia reviews all reports prior to release.0 Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report. All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.0 Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Laine Towey
Unofficial Spring 2000 Student Government Election Results
Brian Smith/Contributing Editor
While watching the buggy races .on Saturday, some onlookers decided to beat the heat by creating a mud
slide. They showed off flips and belly flops while cheering for their favorite teams. The qualifying heats for 
the races were on Friday morning and the finals were Saturday.
STATISTICS BY POSITION:_________Student Body President - 317 votes 
ERIN FITZGERALD - 264 
Optimus Prime - 6**
Trevor Carlson - 3 
Sanjiva Persad - 3 
David Mercer Bufter - 2 
Jose Lee - 2 
Mr. T - 2**
Ben Vernot - 2
Student Body Treasurer - 316 votes 
DAVID LIBER -194 
Anand Marathe -10 
Optimus Prime -10**
Deniz Ersever - 5*
Sanjiva Persad -5*
Dipesh Mukerji - 4 
Sriram Gollapalli - 4
School of Computer Science - 33 votes 
MARCIN JESKE - 25 
ANAND MARATHE - 20
Mellon College of Science - 41 votes 
NICHOLAS FITZKEE - 36 
FRANK SUN - 4
ELECTION STATISTICS;_________________Voter Turnout:
Student Body President: appx. 5% of the student body 
Student Body Treasurer: appx. 5% of the student body
NOTES;____________________________________
* Denotes people who were ineligible because they were members of the Election Board. ** Denotes 
people who are ineligible because they are not Activities Fee-paying students at CMU. All results are 
unofficial, and unless complaints are raised, will become final on April 22, 2000. Names in all capitals 
are winners, and those that are not underlined (candidates involved in ties) will be voted on by Senate 
on to fill Vacant positions. graphic by Aseem Gupta/Webmaster
Daycare facility expansion causes 
student complaints, controversy
School of Industrial Administration - 28 votes
ADAM HARBER - 21
KATY HARRIS - 2
RYAN BEAUDOIN - 2
JESY PAUL - 2
MICHAEL CAMIOLO - 2
College of Fine Arts -29 votes 
LARA HOKE - 24 
JOEY BATOUCHIE - 2 
MICHAEL GUTENPLAN - 2
Carnegie Institute of Technology - 84 votes
STEVE FABREY - 64
JORDAN GREEN - 59
ROSS KINDER - 7
MATTHEW HORTON - 4
JON PUI - 3
JOSE LEE - 3
College of Humanities & Social Sciences - 89 votes
EUGENE KOTLARCHUK - 52
BRIAN NAMEY - 65
AMY TSAO - 61
BEN MAH ALA - 2
NITYA VENKATRAMAN - 2 -
ROOM, from page 1
to be detrimental towards child develop
ment, I have no problems with children 
sharing my college dorm, said Jason 
Weill, a first-year student majoring in 
computer science.
An upcoming meeting is planned for 
Tuesday April 18 at 5:30 to discuss the 
plans with future Morewood residents. I 
think we are optimistic that the outcome 
for residents will be positive, said 
Murphy.
I do not doubt the importance of the 
need for the daycare center to expand. It 
needs more room to accommodate facul
ty and staff needs.... However, I would 
like to see the residents sacrifice as little 
as possible to accommodate the day care
center, said.Tsang. _____..._________
Students should expect to be informed The Rec Room in Morewood is now a place for students to hang out and 
of thefinal expansion plans in the play pool. This might change though, with the possibility of converting 
upcoming weeks. it to a daycare addition. !

---------------------------------------------------

FEDERAL LAW
PROHIBITS US FROM
REPOSSESSING THE BRAINS
OF STUDENT LOAN DEFAULTERS.
BUT OUR LOBBYIST IS WORKING ON IT.
Of gam ynur eluteo.  a be Ota ta*. M Hite  am > * loan does 
have repercussions (it stinks to get turned down for credit cards, car loans and mortgages).
So if things get tight, keep your head and contact PHEAfl. We can help.
Leam more at [youcandealwiuut^j or call 1.800.328.0355PHEAA
Creating Access Ut Education
Cal681a-0EL6T I6O6T0 8l 8 NSaTLAT8NOaN ASElaNa8;
LOGAN OFFERS:
 Prominent, outstanding faculty.
 A strong tradition of academic 
excellence and student success.
 Modern state-of-the-art facilities.
 Financial aid to approximately 
90% of our students.
 Hands-on clinical experiences.
Logan also offers a B.S. in Human 
Biology and an Accelerated Science 
Program (ASP).
Prepare for an exciting career in health care.
fCSBBCOTTCH3fBhttp://www.logan.edu
1851 Schoettler Rd.  Chesterfield. MO 63017 
Phone: (314) 227-2100  FAX: (314) 207-2425 
loganadm@logan.edu
An Equal Opportun'ity Institution of Higher Education
ZyH-mmir 0onnt
Earn College Credit at WCCC
 Convenient sessions with no Friday classes
May 15 - June 22 (6 weeks)
May 15 - August 3(12 weeks)
June 26 - August 3 (6 weeks)
 Credits transfer to colleges and universities 
throughout the U.S.
 5 convenient locations
fa:  Tuition is only $48 per credit for Westmoreland 
County residents, one of the best values in 
Pennsylvania.
Summer Schedule on We&vwww.westmoreland.cc.pa.us_:or call 1-800-262-2103
WESTMORELAND COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGEAn affirmative action, equal opportunity college.
'bpREwy.ErjM 
DiPEmErEpEwRM 
-pjc.bEwRM
You like to watch?
Betty's Summer Vacation
by Christopher Durang
vEbcyrcv mj x.wp eEytw
April 20 - May 21 O'Reilly Theater, Downtown
Voted one of the Top 10 Plays of 1999 by The New York Times and USA Today, the newest 
adult comedy from the provocative Christopher Durang is a biting satire of America's 
fascination with the mass media entertainment culture.
0WDL 3ksAA d9xD %dWD0d% (fB)
* Available in advance for Sun. thru Thurs. evenings and matinees.
One hour before performance for Fri. and Sat. evenings. Valid ID required.
PITTSBURGH
THEATER
www.ppt.org
Contains adult content, language and subject matter. 
Not recommended for audiences under the age of 17.
spb rEytcrw ygaa &f3CTfkCfkBB
piltslmrcil) flost-tSarctlc DUQ FM
The O'Reilly is a theater of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
Cash In.
At campus.HotDispatch.com.
Is your brain full of HTML, Java, or C/C++? Is "Linux" your middle name? 
campus.HotDispafch.com can turn that knowledge info cash!
HotDispafch is the online marketplace where people buy and sell 
technical expertise. Requesters post their questions with a price 
they'll pay for an answer. Providers (that's you, genius!) 
respond online with answers, and ka-ching! you're making 
money. From your dorm room. When you want. Without 
commitment. For free.
Transacting services online is the wave of the future and 
HotDispafch gets you in on the ground floor. The opportunities 
are limitless. Want to ask a question? Use our $25 
spending credit. Want a class notes exchange?
You got it! And did we mention we're hiring?
Join the HotDispafch revolution! Register by 
3/31/00 and you'll be automatically entered 
into the $75,000 HotDispafch Sweepstakes!
(See campus.hotdispatch.com for details.)
HotDispaichTired ofAmerican HeartthrowingAssociations^^^JLJLJL \/ ff JL JL JL CLFighting Heart Disease
anriyour weight
<21IU \DLfUr\G?
around?Exercise.

---------------------------------------------------

Business
17 April 2000THE TARTANPage 5
CMU Inc.
Irish and Scottish combine knowledge
Carnegie Mellon University grad
uate business students and faculty 
hosted a group of CEOs from 
Northern Ireland business startups 
in on April 13 at Coopers 
Auditorium. The delegation was 
part of a week-long tour throughout 
the Pittsburgh region to boost trade 
and dialogue between area busi
nesses and academic leaders. 
Robert Culbertson, an adjunct lec
turer in entrepreneurship, Lester 
Lave, a University professor and 
environmental expert, and several 
faculty from the Heinz School at 
Carnegie Mellon spoke to the dele
gation about venture capital oppor
tunities in the U.S., the challenge of 
starting a dotcom and the differ
ent perceptions about entrepreneur
ship shared in the U.S. and Europe. 
The trip was sponsored by the 
Ireland Institute of Pittsburgh, a 
nonprofit group seeking to promote 
religious and economic harmony in 
Northern Ireland.
Panel discusses long-term success
Around the world, nations, states, 
cities, and neighborhoods are 
adopting new indicators to track 
progress toward long-term sustain
ability and quality of life  one that 
accounts for environmental, eco
nomic, and equity priorities.
On March 16, about 120 students, 
faculty, alumni, and other 
Pittsburghers concerned with this 
topic came to Carnegie Mellon 
University to attend the Sustainable 
Development Indicator Symposium: 
Our Region Thinking Globally and 
Measuring Locally, cosponsored by 
the Heinz III School and 
Sustainable Pittsburgh. This event 
evolved from this year's Systems 
Synthesis Project of second-year 
Heinz School masters degree stu
dents.
The featured speaker for the sym
posium was Birgitte Alvarez-Rivero 
of the United Nations Division for 
Sustainable Development (UNDSD). 
In her comments, Alvarez-Rivero 
shared her insights regarding the 
international embrace of sustain
able development and use of indica
tors.
Following Alvarez-Riveros pre
sentation, a panel of local, national, 
and international experts discussed 
sustainable development issues. All 
provided examples of how commit
ment to sustainability around the 
globe is ushering in an unprecedent
ed level of community planning and 
grappling with issues central to 
local and global quality of life.
Compiled by 
Brad Grantz
Innovation Works allocates $1.69 million to startups
by Brad GrantzBusiness Editor
Innovation Works has announced 
another commitment to the 
Pittsburgh technology sector. The 
non-profit, community-funded 
investment organization provides 
capital for companies, which devel
op technology products or services
We continue to see an 
increase in the number of 
new, early stage technology 
companies in the region. 
 Douglas Goodall 
CEO, Innovation Works
in high-growth markets and employ 
less than 100 individuals.
The agency has given subsidies 
for nine companies from its March 
round of proposals. Twenty-two 
submittals were received and four
teen applicants underwent due dili
gence and review by a panel. 
Applications were received for both 
the Innovation and
Commercialization Funds. The 
Innovation Fund is used to distrib
ute monies to companies in early 
development processes of their 
product or service, while the 
Commercialization Fund focuses on 
beta-stage products, or issues 
which arise during marketing analy
sis and other areas of post-product 
development.
Two grant applicants, PanGo 
Networks and Sentek Group Inc., 
were also finalists in the EnterPrize 
Business Plan Competition. PanGo 
received $10,000 for their second 
round prize. The contest has been 
effective in encouraging individuals 
with business ideas to become 
entrepreneurs, giving them an effi
cient conduit to local business peo
ple and sources of 
capital.
We continue to 
see an increase in 
the number of new, 
early stage technol
ogy companies in 
the region, said 
Douglas Goodall, 
President and CEO 
of Innovation 
Works (IW).
He added, We are 
also seeing an excellent mix of bio 
tech, software, robotics, and com
puting hardware companies which 
is evidence of the high potential for 
future technology clusters in south
western Pennsylvania.
I am very pleased that 
Innovation Works has decided to 
increase its investment in OnGuard 
and am appreciative for other help it 
has provided our company, said 
Joshua Ziff, President and CEO of 
OnGuard Systems. OnGuard was 
the beneficiary of a $100,000 IW 
grant in October 1999. The compa
ny also was aided by the IW 
Internship and Mentoring 
Programs.
Ziff also stated that Innovation
> .. ^ INNOVATION WORKS'
FUND RECIPIENTS
Innovation Fund
Technology Area iCompany Name iInvestment
BiotechnologyCASurgica Inc.$100,000'
Sentek Group Inc.$100,000
XACTIX Inc.$99,938
Computer Hardware OnGuard Systems Inc.$100,000
Computer Software
V .
PanGo Networks Inc.$100,000J
Commercialization Fund
Technology AreaCompany Nameinvestment
Biotechnology
1Sequel Graphics
1$300,000'
e-CommerceTrue Commerce
1
$300,000
Computer Hardware i
1Fusionworks Digital Corp. i
1
$300,000
Computer Software ,
1Entelechy Health Systems i
1
$287,753^
Source: Innovation Works I
efforts by providing companies with 
non-pecuniary services has been 
valuable to his company in particu
lar. The two programs allowed 
OnGuard to develop its market 
niche, and expound upon its com
petitive advantage.
Chris Messina/Production Manager
Two recipients, OnGuard and 
CASurgica, a firm developing computer-assisted surgical tools for knee 
surgery, had been allocated grants 
last year. The $1.69 million in fund
ing increases IWs total portfolio 
value to $5.2 million.Works decision to diversify its
Local companies weather the storm of market destruction
by Aseem GuptaWebmaster
Microsofts Bill Gates lost $11 bil
lion, investment firm owner Charles 
Schwab lost $2.6 billion, and 
Amazons Jeff Bezos lost $2.4 bil
lion. While these men alone lost 
more than $16 billion, they are cer
tainly not feeling as much pain as 
the average American after last 
weeks stock market crash. The 
crash was not really a hard landing, 
but felt much more like somebody 
slowly dragging their fingernails 
down a blackboardnobody knew 
when it was going to stop, and the 
end is masked in a curtain of fog.
Nearly $2 trillion in wealth was 
wiped out last week as the tech
laden Nasdaq fell 25 percent in a 
span of five days. Both the Dow 
Jones and Nasdaq incurred record 
point losses on Friday with the Dow 
losing 617 points and the Nasdaq 
shedding 355 points. The biggest 
losers last week were technology 
stocks, with so-called dotcoms, or 
Internet companies, at the bottom 
of the barrel. Pittsburghs 
Freemarkets dropped from $96 to
$54.57 last week, well off from its 
52 week high of $350.
However, Freemarkets demise 
was one of the extreme cases. Other 
local companies fared far better. 
Tollgrade Communications of 
Cheswick, PA fell from $59 on 
Monday to $55.75 on Friday, a loss 
of just $3.25, but well below its 52 
week high of $84. Tollgrade was 
helped by its April 12 earnings 
report that saw the company beat
ing earning estimates of 13 cents 
per share by a remarkable 200% at 
39 cents per share.
Mellon Financial Corporation 
closed at $30.57 after starting the 
week off at $31.32, and PNC 
Financial Services dropped from 
$45.50 to $44.75, showing that 
despite massive gains in other sec
tors, financial issues still offer secu
rity. US Steel Group finished with a 
loss of $1, and Alcoa Inc. finished 
with a loss of just 13 cents. The H.J. 
Heinz Company was one of the very 
few Wall Street gainers this past 
week with a one-week gain of $1 
from $36.75 to $37.75. Pittsburghs 
old-economy companies proved to 
be a point of safety for investors
caught up in the midst of huge loss
es in Californias new-economy 
sectors. Nationally, big-cap names 
like Cisco Systems, Intel and 
Microsoft were all major losers. 
Intel lost nearly 10% on Friday clos
ing down to $110, and Cisco, the 
most actively traded issue on Friday 
at nearly 120 million shares, lost 
nearly $16 last week.
With last week behind them, 
investors are now looking to the 
future, specifically today. Many 
traders have used margin, or money 
loaned to them against their equity, 
to buy stock. Last week saw many 
individuals selling stock to cover 
margin debt, and after Fridays loss
es, more traders may be forced to 
sell today. Furthermore, investors 
have had this past weekend to 
rethink their investment strategies, 
and some may decide to convert 
their stocks into cash and wait on 
the sidelines until there are clear 
signs that stock prices are on the 
rebound. These two factors alone 
could see last weeks sell-off contin
ue into today.
Moreover, so-called support lev
els have been knifed through by the
crashing indices. Initially, market 
watchers thought that the Nasdaq 
would not cut through 4000, then 
3850, then 3600, and finally 
through the 200 day moving aver
age of approximately 3500. The 
index broke each of these levels 
without looking back, and many 
who felt confident in predicting 
when bounces would occur have 
abstained from guessing the mar
kets next move. However, if a 
bounce is seen today, or in coming 
days, investors may dive into the 
market in an attempt to catch stocks 
at their lows, which may result in a 
waterfall effect that could drive the 
markets back up.
Last week proved that nobody can 
say what will happen this week, and 
many investors are simply holding 
their breath. The US economy is 
booming, and most strategists feel 
that the markets will rebound. Only 
time will tell exactly how this latest 
stock market saga will end, and all it 
could take for a rebound is a few 
brave souls to pick up some of the 
battered stocks. However, analysts 
are very hesitant to refer to this as a 
correction.
Biz BriefsRite Aid gets new lease on life
CAMP HILL, Pa. (AP) - Rite Aid 
Corps shares soared 28 percent yes
terday after the drugstore operator 
announced it had a new financing 
pact and was taking its PCS Health 
Systems unit off the market. The 
nations third-largest drugstore 
chain said it had received a commit
ment for $1 billion in secured credit 
from Citibank. In addition, it said 
J.P. Morgan agreed to convert $200 
million of existing bank debt into 
Rite Aid common stock at a price of 
$5.50 each.
After completing the transactions, 
Rite Aid said, it will have virtually 
no debt maturing prior to August 
2002. Rite Aid had been looking to 
help pay off its $1.3 billion due 
November 1 by selling PCS, which it 
purchased for $1.5 billion last year 
from Eli Lilly & Co. But the company 
was no longer actively seeking a 
buyer because it hadnt received a 
high enough bid, said spokeswoman 
Karen Rugen.
Rite Aid has been trying to recov
er after financial woes sent its stock 
tumbling by more than 80 percent 
in a year. The company has switched 
auditing firms and a restatement of 
its earnings for the past three years 
is expected to result in a $500 mil
lion reduction. Questions still circu
late about the companys financials 
because they have delayed releasing 
several financial reports until July 
as it sorts out earnings restatements 
for the past three years.Disneyland tossing kids in poor house
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP)  It may 
not be such a small world after all: 
Disneyland's Magic Kingdom has 
decided that 10-year-olds should be 
charged adult admission prices.
Disneyland lowered its standard 
for adulthood on Monday by two 
years, applying its $41 adult ticket 
price to visitors ages 10 and older. 
The price previously started at age
12. Children ages 3 to 9 can still get 
into the theme park for $31, 
Disneyland spokesman Ray Gomez 
said.
We believe our attractions are 
enjoyed by people 10 years and 
above, based on height require
ments, he said. So the change was 
appropriate.
Some park visitors said Tuesday 
the park is already too expensive. 
Its a real sacrifice for a family to go 
there as it is, complained Susan 
Partridge of San Dimas, who visited 
the park with her husband and two 
children. And now they have to pay 
an extra $10? Its ridiculous. This is 
supposed to be a kids place.
Compiled by 
Justin Suissa
Market News
MARKETS
Index 04/14/00 03/20/00 Point Chg. % Change
Dow Jones Industrials 10,305.77 10,596.23 -290.46 -2.74%
Nasdaq Composite 3,321.29 4,798.13 -1,476.84 -30.78%
American Stock Ex. 857.97 1011.00 -153.03. -15.14%
Standard & Poors 1,356.56 1,464.47 -107.91 -7.37%
WORLD MARKETS_______________________ ________
DQW JONES AND NASDAQ THIS WEEK
Index
FTSE 100 (Britain) 
Nikkei (Japan)
DAX (Germany)
04/14/00 03/20/00 Point Chg. % Change
6,558.00 6,178.10 -379.90 -5.79%
19,566.32 20,434.68 +868.36 +4.44%
7,710.92 7,214.83 -496.09-6.43%TV helps papers profits
CHICAGO (AP)Tribune Co. 
(NYSE:TRBnews), the parent com
pany of the Chicago TYibune and the 
Chicago Cubs, reported an 18 percent 
increase in first quarter earnings from 
operations, driven by continued 
growth in its television group.
For the first three months of 2000, 
Tribunes earnings from operations 
rose to $85.5 million, or 32 cents a 
share, from $72.7 million, or 27 cents 
a share, in 1999.
The results reported Friday 
matched Wall Street expectations, 
according to a survey of analysts by 
First Call/Thomson Financial. 
Tribune shares fell 311/4 cents to 
$37.561/4 in trading at 4:30 pm on 
the New York Stock Exchange.
The earnings from operations 
exclude non-operating items in both 
periods. With those items, Tribunes 
net income fell to $71.2 million, or 26 
cents a share, from $343.3 million, or 
$1.30 a share, a year earlier.
Non-operating items in the latest 
quarter reduced earnings per share 
by 6 cents mainly due to an adjust
ment in the valuation of Tribunes 
derivatives securities. Non-operat
ing items swelled last years earnings 
by $1.03 a share due to an increase 
in the valuation of derivatives and 
Tribunes sale of WGNX-TV in 
Atlanta and shares of America 
Online common stock.
Profits at Tribunes broadcasting 
and entertainment division rose 33 
percent in the quarter to $84 million. 
The company attributes the gain pri
marily to growth at its WB affiliates 
and at its flagship WGN superstation. 
The divisions revenues rose 18 per
cent to $311.5 million.
The company reports advertising 
revenues at its newspapers, including 
the Orlando Sentinel, increased, 
while revenues from classified ads 
were flat. Newsprint and ink expenses 
fell 6 percent.
Tribune Co. last month agreed to 
acquire Los Angeles-based Times 
Mirror Co. (NYSE:TMC - news) in a $6 
billion deal that will create the 
nations third-largest newspaper com
pany.
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 16 widely held stocks that 
we (eel represent Pittsburgh-based and national companies that 
CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date 
of January 24, 2000. The initial index is calculated by adding the 
valu of the 16 stocks together and multiplying by ten.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE__________
Open: 11,015.00 Close: 8,419.38 
Change: -2,595.63 Percent change: -23.56% 
Year to date change: -3,994.37 
Year to date percent change: -32.18%
Best performer: H.J. Heinz Co., +5 1/16, +15.5%
INDEX STATISTICSSINCE MARCH 20
Company03/20/0004/14/00Change
Alcoa64 11/1667 9/162 7/8
Apple Compuer125111 7/8-13 1/8
Cisco Systems13557-10 1/2
Freemarkets19457-137
H.J. Heinz Co.32 11/1637 3/45 1/16
Lycos7138 3/8-32 5/8
Mellon Bank32 5/1630 9/16-1 3/4
Microsoft99 3/874 1/8-25 1/4
New York Times43 5/1640 3/8-2 15/16
PNC Bank43 11/1644 3/41 1/16
PPG50 1/1653 3/163 1/8
Qualcomm136 1/4105 1/5-31 1/16
Sun Micro.96 1/876 1/2-19 5/8
US Airways22 1/4241 3/4
USX Steel23 1/423 2/37/16
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ, & The AP. The information 
contained in "Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University,
Columnist laments NASDAQs collapse
MARKET MADNESS
by Thaddeus Billman
Black Friday has come and gone. 
Now everyone on Wall Street is ask
ing, "where will the NASDAQs 
decline stop?"
The NASDAQ has been falling 
since it topped out at 5,100 points 
on March 10th, but the prior 
declines were minimal to what was 
experienced last week. The NAS
DAQ fell 1,125 points, or 25.07 per
cent, as it endured its largest weekly 
point and percentage losses ever. 
The week ended on its worst note, 
on Friday alone, dropping 355 
points. The loss was the biggest sin
gle day loss ever, and the second 
biggest drop percentage-wise.
Even the 1987 crash wasnt this 
bad for the NASDAQ. Four of the top 
ten percent losses in NASDAQ histo
ry have come this month, compared 
to three in October 1987. All ten of 
the top point losses have come this 
year.
Until this week, the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average had been holding 
up well. While the NASDAQ plum
meted, the Dow went sideways or 
up, leading market experts to think 
investors were switching from high 
tech and speculative stocks to safer 
and more reliable, traditional com
panies. All of that changed last 
week. The Dow lost 806 points, or 
7.87 percent, for the week, culmi
nating in a 617 point slaughter on 
Friday. The loss was the largest in 
Dow history, but failed to crack the 
top 10 percentage-wise.
Internet companies and biotechs 
were hit the hardest by the market 
decline, which was not surprising. 
Stocks in those sectors had been 
investor favorites all year. The hard
est hit companies were those whose 
value had run up on speculation and 
the enticement of future returns.
One of the most notable losers 
was QXL.com (QXLC). The stock 
had run from $22 per share to over 
$115 per share last week on word of 
an analyst recommendation and 
$333 price target. By Fridays close, 
it was trading for just over $21 per 
share.
EnPoint (ENPT), a small business 
to business company, dropped 66 
percent for the week. Perf Data 
(PERF), which was mistaken for a 
high tech play earlier this year, 
dropped 67 percent. The company 
actually sells cleaning equipment. 
China Prosperity (CPIH) dropped 
another 50 percent. It has been 
falling steadily after running from 
$1 to $80 over two days due to 
"China mania." Cytogen (CYTO) fell 
42 percent to $5.25. The stock ran 
up more than any other stock during 
bio-tech craze earlier this year.
The carnage, however, wasnt lim
ited to these companies by any 
means. 1,570 stocks trading at $1
per share or higher have fallen 30% 
or more in the past week, with 176 
falling 50 percent or more. In com
parison, a mere 174 stocks rose 10 
percent or more for the week.
Big name Internet companies 
were not immune from the downfall 
either. Yahoo (YHOO) lost 35 
points, or 23 percent. It is now down 
over 53 percent from its high 
reached earlier this year. eBay 
(EBAY) lost over $41 a share, or 22 
percent, despite remaining even on 
Friday. It is currently off 45 percent 
from its high. Amazon.com (AMZN) 
was especially hard hit, losing 21 
points, or 31 percent. Amazon now 
stands a staggering 59 percent off 
its high, and is within 4 points of its 
52-week low.
Microsoft (MSFT) was hit for a 
$15 a share loss, or 16 percent. The 
loss came on top of heavy losses 
endured since a federal judge 
declared Microsoft in violation of 
anti-trust laws on April 3rd. The loss 
puts Microsoft at a new 52-week 
low.
Even chipmaker AMD (AMD), 
which announced earnings of about 
twice the expected $0.55 a share, 
was not immune to the sell-off. 
Stock holders saw AMDs stock dip 
from $79 to $62, then shoot back up 
to $77 after earnings were 
announced, only to drop back to 
$66 by Fridays close, leaving the 
stock down 12 percent for the week.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
17 April 2000THE TARTANPage 6
Board of Trustees should 
approve same-sex benefits
On April 5, the Faculty Senate 
passed a resolution recommending 
the University grant health benefits 
to same-sex domestic partners. The 
committee has been reviewing this 
issue for some time, and it should be 
praised for making an open-minded 
, and tolerant decision. Now, the cam
pus community should urge the 
Board of Trustees to rule in favor of 
health benefits for same-sex part
ners.
The University has long held 
that one of CMUs greatest 
strengths is its diversity of acade
mic programs, beliefs, and people. 
This implies that the University 
must be tolerant of the many 
beliefs, orientations, and practices 
of everyone here. The Universitys 
statement of assurance declares 
that CMU does not discriminate 
in admission, employment, or 
administration of its programs on 
the basis of... sexual orientation. 
By extending the same benefits to 
homosexual employees as are 
given to heterosexual employees, 
the University is embracing diversity and reinforcing its message of 
tolerance.
The Human Relations Commission 
of the Faculty Senate spent a consid
erable amount of time researching 
this issue and its impact on the 
University. The commission gath
ered input from both students and 
faculty, which helps ensure that the 
stance they take represents nearly all 
points of view. The Board of Trustees 
should also make sure not to be 
swayed by recent events at the 
University of Pittsburgh, where a 
similar decision was overturned, or 
at other universities. The Board of 
Trustees must do what is in the best 
interest of CMU and its community, 
and perhaps set an example for other 
universities around the country.
By compensating homosexual 
employees, the University is also 
making itself a more attractive work
place to gay or lesbian job appli
cants, enabling CMU to hire from a 
larger candidate pool.
The Faculty Senate has taken,the 
first crucial step to ensure fair treat
ment of homosexual employees. 
Once the Board the Trustees passes 
the policy, CMU will then be able to 
call itself a diverse and tolerant 
University.
Enrollment Services must 
mail off-campus students
Students who decide to move offcampus find themselves receiving 
fewer mailings from Enrollment 
Services. The department has the 
off-campus addresses for sending 
bills, but sometimes fail to send 
these students other important 
mailings. It is not right for the HUB 
to discriminate against students 
based upon where they live. 
Important materials distributed to 
students who live on campus must 
be distributed to students who live 
off-campus as well.
With registration beginning next 
week, it is important that all stu
dents who live off-campus have a 
copy of the course schedule. 
Students on-campus regularly 
receive such mailings in their dorm 
mail boxes, and are thus adequately 
prepared to register for their cours
es.
When it comes time to send stu
dents bills, the HUB is quick to send 
those mailings to off-campus stu
dents. Enrollment Services should 
be consistent and send not just bills, 
but other important mailings to stu
dents as well. Internet access for offcampus students is not as conve
nient, and it is harder to access 
Universitys web site in order to find 
out about important information 
like course descriptions and sched
ules. In light of this disparity, one 
might expect the HUB to be even 
more mindful of trying to keep stu
dents who live off campus updated.
One concern that may arise if the 
HUB were to step up its mailing 
efforts are the associated costs with 
sending large items such as a course 
catalog to city addresses. One solu
tion to this is to send out notices by 
e-mail and even regular mail about 
the availability of such items for 
pick-up on campus. This is a lowcost solution that would at least 
keep students aware of important 
documents.
Off-campus students pay the 
same tuition as on-campus stu
dents, and thus they deserve to be 
mailed the same information. As it 
is, offcampus students are often 
less informed than those who live 
on-campus, and the HUB should be 
partially responsible for ending this 
problem.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since igo6 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed.
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Staff Manager 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor 
SEAN MINTUS, Assistant Forum Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Asst. Arts & Living Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
GABRIEL SABOURIN, Asst. Art Editor 
LILY AHN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Rebecca Fribush, Derek Greentree, Cassandra 
Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette Miller-Dixon, Jonathan 
Pearce, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan Steinwald
Letters to the Editor
Editorial presents fallacies
Editor:
In regard to your article on the Activities 
Board, I would like to make a few remarks 
specifically concerning AB concerts. AB 
concerts had a signed contract with 
George Clinton for Spring Carnival, but 
Clinton cancelled in March, leaving the 
committee little time to find a replace
ment. Because Clinton bailed on us so late 
it was extremely difficult to find any band 
at all, let alone a band of Garbage or Dave 
Mathews caliber. April is a popular time 
for carnivals on college campuses across 
the country and most of the alternatives to 
Clinton we had discussed (Violent 
Femmes, G-Love, and Weezer among oth
ers) in the beginning of the year had 
already been booked. The process of get
ting a band is not always easy, either. Our 
committee forms a list of dozens of bands 
and goes through an agent to find out if 
they are available; it is not like the agents 
say heres whos available; who do you 
want? As a result, this year, we are bring
ing Strangefolk, a band everybody may not 
have heard of, but who are definitely on 
the rise. In addition, it was never our 
intention to let the campus know George 
Clinton was booked until a month before 
the show when he cannot legally back out, 
so, in essence, George Clintons coming 
was more rumor than confirmed fact, so 
please do not further propagate 
this fallacy.
I would also like to comment on your 
two suggestions, Garbage and Dave 
Matthews. Garbage is touring out west. 
The Dave Matthews Band hasnt played a 
campus in years. However, we did attempt 
to get Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds 
last year, but were outbid, and even if we 
did have the show, it was stipulated that it
would only be for 500 people. Is a show for 
500 students a good application of the stu
dent activities fee? All students are invited 
to join the concerts committee and are 
encouraged to do so at each activities fair, 
so if students are upset with what AB 
brings to campus, they do have a forum to 
be heard. And please thank Beth Powell, 
author of the Carnival Offers Variety of 
Comedy, Bands for leaving out our show 
in her article. Perhaps we can now further 
waste the student activities fee by not 
reporting an upcoming event.
Mark Claeys
Junior
History
AB brings interesting events
We took great exception to the editorial 
Activities Board fails to deliver sufficient 
events to students, which was full of unin
formed and misleading statements.
First, you claim there .has only been one 
heavily attended AB event in recent mem
ory. AB Films attracted over 26,500 stu
dents this year. AB Lectures brought not 
only Jane Goodall, but Douglas Adams, 
Upright Citizens Brigade, and Patricia 
Ireland, president of the National 
Organization for Women. AB Tech works 
an event every 2.5 days; without them, 
nearly all student organizations would be 
crippled. The 5 month young AB 
Underground committee is already spon
soring several events every week. AB 
Special Events held a successful Mardi 
Gras party and brought Dr. Ruth for Sex 
Week. And completely contradicting the 
editorial, In Pittsburgh recently honored 
AB Coffeehouse/Concerts with an award 
for Best Use of Student Activity Fees!
The editorial makes the unfounded
statement that similar universities provide 
better activities. AB has consistently 
offered a level of diversity in programming 
unheard of at other schools. UPitt has one 
movie a week despite triple the undergrad
uate enrollment. AB will sponsor over 25 
separate music performances this year. 
You claim that other schools book Dave 
Matthews Band, a group that has played 
exclusively in stadiums since 1995. AB 
Concerts bid for the Dave and Tim 
Acoustic tour but were outbid at almost 
double their budget. Its absurd to argue 
that a school of 5,000 undergrads is 
underachieving with acts like Douglas 
Adams, Soul Coughing, and Jane Goodall. 
And when AB works with other campus 
groups, students get massive events like 
Carnival, Fiesta, Sex Week, oi 
Homecoming.
You allege that ABs advertising is inef 
fective. Publicity has come as posters 
fliers, the films line, chalking, fence paint 
ing, bboard postings, radio, email newslet 
ters - everything short of flying a blimp 
over campus. AB events are well attended 
despite harmful publicity from The Tartan. 
The front page article about Jane Goodalls 
lecture didnt credit AB Lectures. Your 
entertainment section didnt even mention 
Strangefolk, misrepresenting the Carnival 
headliner band.
The Activities Board welcomes any fac
tual, constructive criticism, or preferably, 
increased participation in the hardworking 
committees that bring top-notch events.
Guido Zarrella, Karari Hanks, Arvonn 
Tully, Brendan Pester, Susan Swithenbank, 
William Holtz, Anne Heist, Noah McGee, 
Mike Gehring, Nat Manista, Justin Elker, 
Karthik Shyam, Jason Slater, Leslie Carr, 
Yonatan Mittlefehldt
Current and future AB chairs
Haitian refugees should stay in United States
David Anderson
American immigration policy towards 
the people and the nations of the 
Caribbean islands and countries adjoining 
the sea has been confusing for the past fifty 
years and has been influenced by many dif
ferent factors. During the Cold War, immi
gration was allowed on a relatively minor 
scale from all nations that were friendly to 
the United States, and from this trickle of 
people, there have been several vibrant 
communities founded in the United States 
which greatly enrich the cities in which 
they are located. Yet although these people 
were from nations that have been friendly 
or at least subservient to the United States, 
they gained few benefits from this policy. 
Instead, people who were emigrating from 
nations that have been traditionally 
unfriendly or potentially unfriendly have 
gained great advantages in their attempts 
to live in this country.
American policy towards Cuban immi
gration during the entire Cold War is the 
best example. Hundreds of thousands of 
people were allowed to resettle in the 
United States because they were Cubans, 
not specifically because they were political 
refugees, or in danger of their lives, 
although many may have been, but just 
because they had the misfortunate luck of 
living in a Communist nation, that hap
pened to be within range of American 
shores. The same applied to the immi
grants from Nicaragua during the 1980s; 
they were almost given carte blanche to 
enter and become legal aliens within this 
country, again not because they possessed
any special skills or had relatives in this 
nation already, but because the govern
ment of the United States feared 
Communism.
Haitians who have wanted to emigrate to 
the United States have had none of these 
advantages yet they had as much of a rea
son to leave their country as any Cuban or 
Nicaraguan. Haiti has been the scene of 
great amounts of political instability and 
political violence and the United States has 
some responsibility for creating an environ
ment in which this behavior was tolerated 
and encouraged through our support to the 
dictatorial regimes of Papa and Baby Doc 
Duvalier. In 1991, the democratically elect
ed president, Jean Aristide, was over
thrown in a violent military coup, which 
threatened the lives, livelihoods, and 
beliefs of many Haitians. There was a sud
den flow of refugees from this nation that 
attempted to flee to the United States. 
These people faced significant hurdles in 
their struggle to be free. The first was 
financial, for any attempt was extremely 
expensive for the average citizen of the 
poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere. 
Next, the United States did not want to take 
in these people, as evidenced by the almost 
constant US Navy and Coast Guard block
ade against the boat peoples, and the peo
ple who were apprehended by American 
warships were then resettled at either 
Guatanomo Bay Naval Station in Cuba or at 
other refugee camps on American military 
bases in Central America. Finally, even if a 
Haitian refugee was able to make it to 
American shores without being intercepted 
and did the legal thing of reporting to the 
INS and then attempting to declare refugee 
status or request political asylum, most 
people were rebuffed.
The bureaucracy of the United States is
not an institution that can quickly answer 
questions, and this further disadvantaged 
the lucky few people who were able to suc
cessfully flee a murderous regime. When 
Haitian refugees went to the INS in order to 
fulfill the legal requirement of declaring 
themselves as refugees, no decision was 
immediately reached, and these people 
were told that they could stay in the United 
States while their cases were being consid
ered. That was at least six years ago, and 
these people began to get on with their 
lives, finding jobs, dating, marrying, buy
ing a house, having kids, fulfilling the 
American Dream. Now, it appears that the 
INS wants to deport these people back to 
Haiti because it has been decided that they 
do not deserve refugee status, which may 
be true at this moment, but at the point of 
time in which they left their country, these 
people truly were refugees in fear of their 
lives. Yet there is a problem, these people 
are not American citizens, but their chil
dren are. The children by their birthright 
as American citizens cannot be deported, 
but the INS proposes to deport their par
ents.
This is blatantly stupid for several rea
sons. First, many of the Haitian parents 
know that the standards of living in Haiti 
are far worse than they are in the worst 
slums of the United States, no running 
water, common childhood diseases are 
prevalent, few schools, and still a culture of 
violence exists. Being good parents, they 
want to do what is best for their children, 
so many are planning to leave their chil
dren, American citizens, in this country if 
and when the parents are ordered to leave. 
The majority of these children do not have 
other relatives or potential caregivers to 
watch over them and raise them, so they 
See REFUGEE, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  APRIL 17. 2000
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Alcllons Student Newspaper Since igo6 
SENIOR STAFF
Emily Landes, Rim Svarcas
STAFFWRITERS 
Megan Adriance, Neil Babra, Thaddeus 
Billman, Grant Catton, Cliff Chien, Krissy 
Choi, Rob Cullen, Donny Debarr, 
Elizabeth Dodson, Derek Dreyer, Frank J. 
Fleming, Colt Foutz, Heather Frantz, 
William-Neil Guzy, LaRita Hamilton, 
Rosie Jones, Rachel Kingery, Cynthia Kos, 
Eunice Liew, Katie Kowall, Matthew 
Lanken, Erin Lucas, Peter Patterson, 
Jennifer Petrini, Srinivas Pullela, 
Anwesha Rakshit, Jennifer Resick, Gail 
Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido Zarrella
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin, Chris Rgen
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Anthony DAuria, Emily 
Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, Nuri 
Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew 
Trentacoste, Peter Wang
DARKROOM 
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Ko Nakatsu, 
Amy Solana, Peter Wang, Laura Wetzel
PRODUCTION 
Gopi Flaherty, Serena Lam
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher 
Dornfeld, Claire Jauregui, Lisa Ferrugia, 
Larissa Kasian, Kristin Lala, Matthew 
McHenry, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
Abhyudaya Agrawal, David Anderson, 
Nicholas Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, 
Michael Castellana, Michael Cook, Dave 
del Rosario, Shion Deysarkar, Jay 
Huang, Bill Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, 
Tim Lo, Bhumika Muchhala, Andre 
Niederberger, Damian Olesnycky, Vijay 
Palaparty, Jodi Poniewaz, Karthik 
Ramachandran, Christian Reed, Adam 
Retchless, Domenic Senger-Schenck, 
Marissa Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina 
Small, Huiya Xu, Sheila Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper ofCarnegie Mellon University. It is a v/eekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University community. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opin
ion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer than 
350 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  
2000 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication. Office: University Center 
Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box
17/Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.
Last weekend, everyone's attention was absorbed by Spring Carnival. Just what 
is it that students like best about this event? To find.out, we asked the question:
What is the best thing about Carnival 2000?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Modern science places abortion, murder in same category
Thaddeus Billman
Abortion: you know what Im talking about 
 the shameful slaughter of the unborn. But 
wait, I show my hand too soon. I dont want to 
lose you before I start, but if you are so closedminded as to not even read my article before 
passing judgment, then, well, goodbye.
Now, for the rest of you,' I will give a con
cise, logical argument as to why abortion is 
morally wrong and should be outlawed. While 
I cant cover every point Id like to, or give fac
tual details, I think my points will come across 
clearly.
Abortion is an act of death, not just for the 
unborn child but also for the pregnant 
woman. It is an act founded on ignorance and 
selfishness. Logically, one can support abor
tion only if one supports murder of all kinds.
Pro-choice proponents found their beliefs 
on the principle that the unborn are not alive, 
and certainly are not human, a principle that 
simply is not true. They tell us that an unborn 
child is merely a blob of cytoplasm and that 
the baby is merely a part of the womans body 
with which she may do as she wishes. 
However, science, logic, and all informed,
rational standpoints disagree.
Dr. Lejeune, The Father of Modern 
Genetics, writes, At no time is the human 
being a blob of protoplasm. I see no difference 
between the early person that you were at 
conception and the late person which you are 
now. Other biologists and geneticists concur. 
In fact, it is scientific reality that a unique 
human life begins when the two gametes join 
together. The only way one can argue this 
point is by rejecting science as a whole.
If not science, what is a pro-choice stand
point based on? Logic, perhaps? Nope. 
Abortion proponents would like to believe 
that because a baby is inside a woman, it is 
also part of the woman. This simply makes no 
sense. An individual does not have two brains, 
four arms, or four legs, yet all of these appear 
in a pregnant woman by 6 weeks after con
ception. Nor does a human have two hearts or 
two unique blood types (present by 2 weeks). 
Nor does a single being have two unique 
genetic codes, yet two codes exist in a preg
nant womans body from the point of concep
tion until birth.
Having no scientific or logical basis to stand 
on, abortion advocates seek to elevate the 
importance of secondary arguments. They 
argue that banning abortion would lead to 
overpopulation, that adoptions are psycho
logically damaging, and that women will get
abortions regardless of legality. However, all 
available evidence shows these views to be 
false.
Interestingly, pro-choicers argue that illegal 
abortions are dangerous, while ignoring the 
danger of legal ones. Each year, 20-30 women 
die directly of legal abortions in the United 
States and several hundred more die of side 
effects. Furthermore, women whove previ
ously had abortions are far more likely to have 
miscarriages, premature births, babieswith 
birth complications, and ectopic pregnancies. 
In addition, many women suffer from long
term psychological problems.
But what about the so-called special cases, 
you say? First, it should be noted the point is 
largely moot, as less than 0.2 percent of all 
abortions can be qualified as special cases. 
That being said, one still must address these 
cases.
The defense against the rape or incest spe
cial case is simple: A human life is a human 
life, regardless of how it was conceived. All 
one has to do is ask if it is okay to murder an 
adult who was born after being conceived in 
an act of rape. The answer is, of course, no. 
Similarly, an unborn childs circumstances of 
conception cannot be used to justify abortion. 
Furthermore, there is no evidence to suggest 
that having an abortion lessens the rape vic
tims pain or trauma in any way.
What about the case where the mothers life 
is in danger? While abortion advocates may 
once have had a valid point here, those days 
are gone. The advance of modern medicine 
has made cases of maternal death extremely 
rare, while studies show that abortion is no 
safer than the alternatives in a potentially 
troubled pregnancy. Even staunch pro-choicer 
Dr. Guttmacher acknowledges this, writing, 
it is possible for almost any patient to be 
brought through pregnancy alive, unless she 
suffers from a fatal illness such as cancer or 
leukemia, and if so, abortion would be unlike
ly to prolong, much less save life.
In summary, abortion is a practice of death. 
It kills the unborn child and harms the moth
er. The fact that human life begins at concep
tion is a scientific one, not a mere religious 
belief. Pro-choice advocates attempt to 
undermine their opponents by saying, abor
tion is merely a moral choice, and you have no 
right to force your morality on me. If such is 
true, then all murder is merely a moral 
choice and if I believe it is okay to kill some
one, I can. You might not like it, but you have 
no right to force your morality on me.
Thaddeus Billman believes he is always right; however; he welcomes all reasonable attempts to prove otherwise.
Reporter misuses English
Tofu Inhibits Sex
by Justin Suissa
Lately I have come under fire for 
a lack of reputable news content in 
my coluirin. So this week I have 
decided to appease those who wish 
to see more discussion relating to 
current events, and therefore the 
topic for this weeks column is the 
huge International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) protest going on in 
Washington, D.C. After reading an 
Associated Press article from my 
friend Larry Margasak I feel I am 
well versed on the issue. 
Apparently, about 10,000 protesters 
are hanging around Washington, 
D.C. because they are upset over the 
actions of the World Bank.
As a staunch journalist; I was 
highly offended when my pal Larry 
stated in his article that Some 
demonstrators carried pieces of 
chain link fence from a construction, 
site. Larry doesnt even explain 
why these people were walking 
around with the chain link fences. 
Its not like Larry said, hey this is 
why I think they are doing that. 
Nope, Larry took the easy route out 
 hes a quitter. Larry I dont 
explain myself at all. Margasak, if 
youre reading this, get a hint and 
elaborate. That would be like me 
saying, I dont like Larry Magasak 
and just leaving it at that. You just 
dont do that Larry  even in kids 
stories they say what is going on 
and why. You know Jack and Jill 
went up the hill to fetch a pail of 
water.
Another thing that pissed me off 
when reading Larrys great piece is 
when he says Delegates to the 
spring meeting of the International 
Monetary Fund were spirited to 
work early and under extraordinary 
protection. Larry must have had 
some fun with his thesaurus and 
was like spirited, thats cute or 
something. Hey Larry, you ever 
heard of the words hurried, rushed, 
escorted, taken, etc? Apparently 
not, because when I say spirited it 
means you have enthusiasm or 
something like that. An example,
again from childrens literature, 
damn childrens stories Larry: Jack 
was spirited when he got his water. 
You know Larry, these seem to be 
some basic concepts youre having a 
problem with.
Finally, my pal Larry starts talk
ing about people stripping naked 
outside a protest at a GAP store in 
Georgetown and once again tries to 
be really funny. Larry says, That 
prompted a dozen or so other men 
and women in the crowd of 200 to 
strip down to their skivvies. I mean 
come on Larry, were adults and all 
we dont try to be all cute using the 
word skivvies. Just say what hap
pened, people wont get mad at you 
just tell it like it is. Its not like youre 
running around Georgetown 
naked, knocking people over and 
such.
I realize that by publicly pointing 
out the mistakes of a colleague that 
my own record may come into ques
tion. Therefore, I feel it is necesarry 
to point out some journalistic high
lights from my career. Last week I 
exposed the problems of bathroom 
etiquette in this country. Recently, I 
broke a scandal involving the Six 
Flags Ohios Batman Knight Flight 
roller coaster. The fact was that it at 
no time actually flew. In addition, I 
have also had the honor of speaking 
at a number of renowned journal
ism conferences.
Last month I gave the keynote 
speech at the First Convention of 
Insane Wedgie Disorder. In the next 
week I will be giving yet another 
lecture on how to write articles 
without a pen, but by using those 
little memory enhancing tablets 
they sell in the supermarket. I plan 
to discuss these issues in greater 
depth in future columns, but let me 
end with a few words for my friend. 
Larry I know youre a good guy and 
Im sure in the future you wont 
make these little mistakes  even 
Jack messed up when he came tum
bling down.
Justin Suissa believes that any real journalist does not sleep with their thesaurus.
Ilina Sen
First-year student 
Computational Biology
Amanda Innis Erin Fitzgerald
First-year student Sophomore
Art , ; ECE/Music
Amit Patel
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
Compubookie shows disrespect
INS must allow Haitians decisions
REFUGEE, from page 6 
will legally become wards of the 
state and placed into foster care 
even though they have parents who 
are willing, able and desiring to 
take care of them. Finally, in the 
uproar over the Elian Gonzales 
case, a federal judge has applied a 
common principle of American law 
to another immigration case, and 
has ruled that Elian should return 
to Cuba because it is in the best
interest of the child to live with his 
parents, wherever they may be. 
The same logic should apply in this 
case.
American immigration laws have 
been designed this way in order to 
discourage aliens from gaining citi
zenship rights in the United States 
just by having a child, but I believe 
that there should be a special 
exception in this case because the 
people who are being affected were
fleeing persecution and are not just 
economic refugees. They have 
done their best to become good 
Americans, learn English, and inte
grate themselves into the commu
nity; in other words they have 
become the latest stream of people 
who help define the greatness of 
America.
David Anderson welcomes all reponsible replies to his article.
Matt Bender
First-year student
Material Science and Engineering
Sean Mintus
Usually, when I need to find 
something to write about, I have to 
scout around. Of course, there will 
always be sufficient 
idiocy afoot about 
which to write, but its 
discovery usually 
requires some rather 
intense searching. Not 
this week, though.
No, this week, the 
object of my dejection 
came to me in the form 
of that wonderful little 
snake-in-the-grass 
more commonly known 
as Compubookie. Now, 
after reading that poor 
excuse for a buggy 
write-up in last weeks 
issue of The Tartan, and 
begging my editor to let me speak 
on this, I was told many things. 
Dont go after Compubookie, 
Sean. We dont even know who 
Compubookie is, Sean. Its all in 
good fun, Sean. I think otherwise.
Therefore, this weeks column 
will not be a witty diatribe, as all 
the others have been. No, instead it 
will be a restatement of everything 
that any self-respecting 
Sweepstakes participant already 
knows. Only now, its out there for 
the entire university community to 
see.
Now, I understandthat 
Compubunkie is a tradition. But its 
intended purpose, to entertain 
while providing a clever and 
insightful prediction of the out
come of our Sweepstakes races, has 
been completely lost. Therefore, 
Compubangy, you have incurred 
my wrath. Yes sir, or maam, or
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Staff
Sigma Phi Epsilon was one participant in this year's 
Sweepstakes, an event Compubookie mispredicted.
whatever, I am calling you out. Its 
go time.
But seriously, where did 
Compudummy come from this 
year? He or she were obviously not 
present for either free rolls or truck 
weekend. Otherwise, predictions 
would have resembled actual calcu
lated outcomes, instead of random 
forecasts. Results aside (which, as 
you all know, were much less than 
identical to the predictions), state
ments referencing instances in 
which drivers were injured are
completely inappropriate.
Anyone who has spent the last 
eight months training and prepar
ing for this loveable little obsession 
of ours should be outraged by the 
demeaning attitude taken by 
Compufunkey. I also find it dis
tasteful for someone to poke fun at 
a possibly life-threatening situa
tion.. Some of the bravest 
people I have ever come 
across are the girls we 
shove into buggies and 
fling around. Anyone who 
finds humor in the compro
mising of their physical 
well-being needs his or her 
ass kicked.
As a pusher and member of 
the Greek community, I, 
along with many other 
people, already put up 
with inordinate amounts of 
crap. The last thing that 
we need is for someone 
who undoubtedly refuses 
to put forth any effort to fill 
two pages of this paper 
with insults. Thats my job.
Therefore, I liken Compustunkie 
to a legless individual who critiques 
running. Whoever Compuchunky 
is, I hope that he or she is content 
with proving to the entire world 
that they know absolutely nothing 
about the time, effort, and hard 
work that every single one of the 
competing teams put in.
In the true spirit of Carnival Sean Mintus wrote this weeks column drunk.
I think the booths are just amazing. This is a great time because its the one The fact that it involves stuff, and its The weather, we had gorgeous weather Everyones out and about on campus
time the Pittsburgh community comes out not just getting drunk. I didnt know that today. you see a lot of people
as a whole, including the campus. there was an actual Carnival.

---------------------------------------------------

UUEfHjrjP^i
SLAP YOU!
S
ome people may think that being an assistant is fun, 
and a good use of their free time. Some may think that 
the stimulating atmosphere they will face as an assistant 
will enrich a person, but I must correct these people as I 
slap them in their silly little faces. Much of my time and 
energy has been wasted here, but I thank you for your 
patience as I vent. May God bless you all. :)
Ye Schwieriger Sie Sind Desto Farder Sie Beissen
Blut Ist Gut, but Paris is Piss(ah)
by: James Kenney (jim@dorkorg.com)
Will I awake in time for the five thirty nine, 
the one direct line to Paris. Will I spend all 
my money, crepes and sweet honey, arrive 
on the scene, eat foreign cuissine til my face 
tints green. I've been spotted by Michel, 
where's his motorcycle, that I haven't seen.
f 
\ 0 
ij
P
Will the Elfel tower come to life and dance 
with me all night, or will the wide streets 
open up as 1 fall abrupt down to the earths 
core. Will 1 dine on fine wine, become 
drunken and flirt with the whores snack 
on hors'd vours, or will 1 spell Incorrectly.
Will I ride a motorcycle that I stole from 
Mlcheal and scrape my knee on proud 
Paris. A torn t-shirt my bandage and the 
thelves will take advantage, swiping my 
camera from under my arm, but it's not 
automatic, forgotten in some attic.
Will I play foils and win spoils and make 
the prince wince as I run him through with 
my steel. Will I bring an umbrella, dance 
In some cellar, inhale smoke til my face 
tints teal. I've been spotted by Michel, 
where's his motorcycle, that I once did steal.
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/niVolum cjr.(Q5.rj dr
I've decided that it's high 
time I clean up my ass.
Act. I mean act.
K ------- FLOWERS OF SATAN 
First thing is to stop the open 
Satan worship.
EVIL BUTTERFLY -
NONPLANAR, NOT 
THE ANTICHRISTOf course, I would not want 
to downplay the merits of
by I in
I knew this guy once, he was in trouble or something. I asked himto tell me what the. problem was, but he wouldn't. He just kept on going and going about his normal routines, nothing's wrong la la la la la. Eventually I forgot about it, everything seemed fine.
People have problems, life is hard and it doesn't always have to be that way. Sometime this week, do me a favor and ask that friend of yours if everything ^ is REALLY ok. Don't let him get away with not telling. k It could make a big difference.
IT iS JMo THAT F(3H HAVE No 
P6AL.J SR>J'CGABU6 MCMORr. 
IMI\<Slf*,U0V, IF Fl5W Hap am 
UlMDYIHb 1.0ve. Line DOGS,..
(<L r~~3'\
v__ /
 

---------------------------------------------------

are you a senior?
do you have a job?
are you going home instead of to work?
_F UDR.hRt_p: R//DpRwo_:U g_ne R: phtdpudwp:tDpg tDR_:B 
oRye 'ph eye: FtRDte. tp to_:n pu soRt 'phmDe Up_:U tp .pB
vpcw jp.b RgIpb w.vvcaj wccR .wcacwwU
Relax. Don't panic. 
thepavement.com is here to help.
It's not too late to take advantage of 
our totally free national database of 
entry-level jobs. Register. Upload your 
resume. Apply for a job today. Then 
get advice about moving and a lot 
more.
Go to thepavement.com now and
register. It's free, and it takes just 
minutes. And those minutes will be 
worth it.
thepavemeritcom
a service of BrassRing Inc.
Pittsburgh*s dotcom
Muni Auction
The First Municipal Bond Auction Website
Seeks top-notch IT professionals for 
Perl Programming and Database positions.
Priority skills are
Linux & Perl
or call 412-391-7686 x324.
Interested? Check us out at 
www.MuniAuction.com
Send cover letter and resume to 
Harry Griffith at 
hg@MuniAuction.com
ESITE
I Technology Entrepreneurship |
at Carnegie Mellon University
=> Come hear what successful entrepreneurs, leading investors and lawyers have to say about kicking off a startup.
=> Set their answers and opinions on your specific questions.
= Network with them and other entrepreneurial-minded attendees, one-on-one, over quality hors doeuvres and drinks!
numacGS
GXPflflDMG YOUR OPPORTUMTIH
Date: April 19,2000 
Time: 5-7 pm
Location: Singleton Room, Roberts Hall
This panel will illuminate the risks, rewards and challenges 
a startup faces in strategic alliances. It will discuss how to evaluate a potential alliance and negotiate a win-win situation.
Panelists: John Stafford, Schneider Downs & Co.
David Cohen, Cohen & Grigsby 
Dan Cohen, IKON
Moderator: Bob Unetich, Carnegie Mellon
Agenda: Panelists discussion (60 mins)
Q&A session (30 mins)
Spatuswied &/...
cohen&grigsby
The Startup Law Group at Cohen & Grigsby
Free admission for CMU students, staff, faculty and alumni. $3 admission charge per panel for others 
For more information contact eslte@andrew.cmu.edu or check out http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~esite
Wtm'Sites 1 m80 
Spending hours putting up posters 
and fliers on campus just wasnt 
making it. Penn State students 
Ben Mandell, Nicole Wright, and 
Jim Szewc created a better way to 
buy and sell - PittAuction.com, 
a free, local Internet auction site.
In fact, they've started a company 
to create hundreds of these sites in 
universitytowns.VillageAuction.com.
Here's how it works. Log on to 
PittAuction.com and register 
by typing in your name, a nickname, 
home address, and e-mail address. 
You'll see the agreement and be 
provided with a password. After 
that, you can buy and sell as often 
as you like; absolutely FREE.
Items are arranged in simple 
categories for buyers and sellers to 
use. In addition to new and used 
goods, the site can be used for 
rentals, professional services, 
roommates, jobs, swaps, and other 
categories. Sellers can set a 
starting sale price and a deadline for 
bids. The highest bid at the end of 
the auction period gets the goods.
One of the nice things about a local 
auction is that you can pick up or 
deliver your auctioned items locally 
No shipping or waiting. You can see 
the buyer or seller face to face, 
paying locally and trading locally 
The possibilities are greater, too.
Try arranging a sublet or selling a 
used sofa on a national auction site!
There are opportunities for everyone 
atPittAuction.com.
Local businesses are encouraged 
to list items and become advertisers; 
and even charities can benefit.
For each new registered user you 
sign-up for PittAuction.com your 
charity can recieve $1. Charitable 
auctions can also be arranged. Just 
.com.
The site will be monitored for 
legality and honesty in trading 
and advertising. Students and 
townspeople are encouraged to log 
on and try out this free auction 
Web site at PittAuction.com.
It's like we say
"If you don't want it,
somebody else does!"

---------------------------------------------------

played Wednesday night.
Pinochle  Playoffs schedules are 
out today. Play matches as sched
uled and report results to the IM 
Office.
Sports
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski, x8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk, 
x8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli, x2- 
3917 or peroli+
Vice President:. Mike Hutsko, x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Womens President: Andrea
Nellis, X2-2485 or nellis+
Important Dates
Wednesday, April 19  IM Board 
meeting 1 pm in Gym Conference 
Room
Thursday, April 20  IM swim 
meet 4:30 pm at UC Pool 
Thursday, April 27  IM track 
meet 6:30 pm at Gesling Stadium 
Saturday, May 6  Kickball, fenc
ing, and ultimate frisbee tourna
ments
Sports in Season
Floor Hockey  Playoffs continue 
Tuesday with the finals being
Indoor Soccer, Softball, Co-Rec| 
Softball  Games are being: 
played at the Stadium and ini 
Skibo Gym.
Squash, Call Pool, Table Tennis, 
and Euchre  Matches are under
way. Please play matches as 
scheduled and report scores to 
the IM Office.
Swim Meet  The IM swim meet i 
will be held Thursday, April 20 at f 
the UC Pool starting at 4:30 pm.. 
Events are the 50 free, 50 fly, 50 
back, 50 breast, 100 free, 200 
free, 100 individual medley, 200 
medley relay, and the 200 free 
relay.
Track Meet  The IM track meet 
will be held Thursday, April 27 at' 
6:30 pm in Gesling Stadium. The 
events are 100m, 200m, 400mj 
800m, 1 mile, 4x100 relay, 4x400 
relay, shot put, and long jump.
Note: All email rosters are due 24 
hours prior to the posted date.
April 17, 2000THE TARTANPage IO
With several meets remaining, UAA 
Championships approach for track
by Brian Smith
Contributing Editor
The turf at Gesling Stadium 
could have been mistaken for 
frozen tundra two Saturdays ago, 
when the mens and womens track 
and field squads braved freezing 
temperatures and swirling winds 
at the Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational.
Last Fridays dual meet at Grove 
City College was contrasted starkly 
to this scene, however, and 
the Carnegie Mellon ath
letes seized the fair weather 
to record several personal 
bests and six first-place fin
ishes.
The weather let us run 
some of our best times of 
the season, said head 
coach Dario Donatelli. A 
lot of kids set the best 
times they have ever run. I 
am very pleased.
However, while official 
team results were not avail
able at press time, Donatelli 
expected that both the  
Tartan men and women finished 
behind Grove City, due to a lack in 
numbers of athletes.
We did not have the depth to 
win, he said.
Regardless of the final score, the 
squads recorded a number of 
exceptional performances.
Among the first-place Tartan 
finishers were senior distance run
ner Brooke Cutler, who won the 
1,500-meter event, senior Mark
Plesko in the 800-meters, and 
junior Ed Murphy in the 400- 
meters event.
In addition to these individual 
performances, the team of Plesko, 
Murphy, senior Jeff Jones, and 
sophomore Andy Ziegler took 
home first place in the 4x400- 
meter relay.
In the field events, first-year 
Scott Jubeck won first place in the 
mens discus and senior Bridget 
Szczypinski took first place in the 
javelin.
The weather let us run 
some of our best times of 
the season. A lot of kids set 
the best times they have 
ever run. I am very 
pleased.
 Outdoor track coach 
Dario Donatelli
The 120-foot toss was 
Szczypinskis personal-best and 
brought her one step closer to cap
turing first place at the UAAs  an 
honor she missed by one spot last 
year.
At this point Bridget has got to 
be the favorite to win the UAA, 
said Donatelli.
One of the seasons mild surpris
es has been the strong numbers 
provided by some of the first-year
athletes, particularly in the field 
events.
We have some good young kids. 
Theyve been making a big impact 
now, said Donatelli. Im still a lit
tle unsure of what impact they will 
have for us at the UAAs, but they^re 
helping us now.
The Tartans will face some of 
their stiffest competition of the sea
son this Friday, when they will 
compete in a meet at Gesling 
Stadium hosted by Duquesne 
University. Fridays meet will fea------- ture a number of regional
NCAA Division I track 
teams, and Carnegie Mellon. 
If the weather holds out, I 
see some definite improve
ment this week, said 
Donatelli. Competition will 
be very good and I think our 
kids are ready to go.
Beyond this week, the 
Tartans are already thinking 
of the UAA Championships 
April 29-30 at Washington 
University of St. Louis.
With UAAs only two weeks 
away, we are going to cut 
back on the quantity of our 
workout, said Donatelli. This 
week will have a lot of short, quick, 
and hard workouts.
With the knowledge only a veter
an Carnegie Mellon track coach 
could have, Donatelli said, It all 
depends on how we come out,of 
this weekend.... Some of the kids 
tend to get hurt or sick on non-adiletic activities [over Carnival week
end] . I told the kids to have a good 
weekend, but not too good.
Tennis teams finishing seasons and 
looking forward to UAAs at Emory
Case Western University and went 
into our Hilton Head matches feel
ing very confident.
During the spring break trip to 
Hilton Head, S.C., the womens 
team won all of its matches except 
one, to a tough DePauw team 
which was nationally ranked last 
year.
The teams success has been 
somewhat tempered by a recent 
loss to NYU on April 5 at 
Muhlenberg College. However, the 
team rallied later that weekend to 
pull off a close win against 
Muhlenberg.
This Thursday, the womens 
team will face another test in its 
season when it hosts Allegheny
College. After that, the next major 
tournament for the women is the. 
UAA Championship, which will 
take place from April 28-30 at 
Emory University.
According to Brown, the way the 
team has been playing lately is" a 
sign that it can perform well at the 
end of the month.
Personally, I am poised and con
fident about my performance and 
the teams performance, com
mented Brown. Last year we did 
really well and I hope we will get 
similar results this year. If every
one is healthy, confident and hun
gry for victory, then our outlook iis 
great.
See TENNIS, page ill
Indianas Knight needs to face the music and clean up his act
by Nathan Steinwald
Contributing Editor
As the school year winds down, 
and classes come to a conclusion, 
the womens and mens tennis 
teams have been gearing up for the 
finale of their seasons.
The womens team has made 
progress through its season, 
though with some setbacks, 
towards the goal of the UAA cham
pionships and perhaps nationals 
afterwards.
The women have been having a 
good season, said womens team 
captain Elisabeth Brown. We 
started off with a 9-0 sweep of
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
Anyone who has been following 
]| sports knows that Bobby Knight is in 
jj hot water with Indiana University, 
i' And anyone who is a college basketi' ball fan is not the least bit surprised. 
I' - Controversial behavior has been a 
1 hallmark of Knights tenure as head 
t coach at IU. The list of Knights 
1 transgressions is nearly as colorful 
as the limited vocabulary he displays during one of his notorious 
1 outbursts. It includes punching a 
1 Puerto Rican police officer in 1979, 
throwing a chair across the court 
lu during a game in 1985, kicking a 
< player on the bench, and posing 
i with a whip next to a bent-over 
i Calbert Cheaney before a tournaf ment game. This pathetic attempt at 
} r a joke did nothing but portray the 
(! coach as the master of his enslaved 
players.
So, it should come as no great 
)  shock that he now stands accused of 
I j choking Neil Reed during a practice 
!  in 1997. However, the same cannot 
3 \ be said for the reaction of the press 
J j and public. Rather than the indig*\ nation generated toward Latrell 
I1 Sprewell for his incident with PJ 
' Carlesimo in a similar situation two 
j [ years ago, Knight has received most; ly sympathetic press, almost as if 
\ | hes the victim in the whole situatinJ;! Looldng at some of the most common defenses of Knights actions 
j*nd his personality in general, it 
jgbecomes apparent that they must be 
ydue mostly to some sort of blind 
^allegiance to Knight instead of ratio?ial, thoughtful judgement. 
fi**
fi"*
Defense #1: Knights slip-ups can 
be overlooked due to his great track 
record in following NCAA rules, grad
uating players, and being basically a 
man of honesty and integrity in an 
age of deception and selfishness.
I believe the above statement 
accurately summarizes a primary 
defense of Knight and his occasional 
outbursts. I also believe it is ridicu
lous. First of all, a coach is supposed 
to graduate players and follow 
recruiting rules. Do we live in an 
age so corrupt that merely following 
rules and fulfilling expectations 
earns high praise? Even if it did, 
this doesnt mean that due to his
the library at IU), and raising level 
of basketball at IU (his three nation
al titles are the most of any active 
coach). None of this, however, 
excuses his more lamentable 
actions.
Defense #2: Knight is merely trying 
to teach todays pampered, babied 
athletes how to be men.
This has been a defense forward
ed even by many of Knights former 
players. They credit coach Knight 
with taking them in as boys and 
teaching them how to be adults.
While I agree that enduring four 
years of Knights antics would build 
a certain degree of strength and
By attempting to stain the character of a 
young man, Knights henchmen are try
ing to ensure their man gets off smelling 
like roses.
positive deeds Knight has acquired 
some sort of get-out-of-jail-free card 
for any misdeeds.
Lets say for arguments sake that 
a student had never cheated on an 
exam, was always on the Deans 
list, and even was very active in 
social work. This does not make 
him innocent if he commits assault 
on a fellow student, which is exact
ly what Knights action would be 
considered in any other arena: 
assault. I grant that coach Knight 
has been very helpful in getting jobs 
for his graduates (seven former 
players are college coaches), rais
ing money for his university (he has 
helped' generate over $5 million for
resolve, it in no way teaches the 
players how to be men. If anything, 
Knights actions more resemble that 
of a spoiled child. He throws 
tantrums when he cant get his way. 
He treats members of the media like 
sub-humans, abusing his power as 
coach of Indiana basketball to treat 
them like, a bully terrorizing class
mates on the playground. One of 
his motivational ploys was to wave 
soiled toilet paper in his players 
faces to demonstrate what he 
thought of their effort.
If Im sending my impressionable 
teenage son off somewhere to learn 
to be a man, coach Knight is the last 
person I would select to oversee the
Cam Crews/Darkroom Staff
Last Saturday, Carnegie Mellon alumni played against the mens and women's varsity soccer teams during Carnival 
festivities. The alumni were victorious in the men's game, winning 2-1, but were 2-0 losers in the women's game.
process. Virtue can be preached 
and taught tirelessly, but unless it is 
also demonstrated the instruction is 
not worthwhile.
Defense #3: Neil Reed is a trouble
maker that was voted off the team by 
his teammates, therefore his testimo
ny is not valid.
I think Bob Knight and his backers 
at Indiana University took notes on 
the Clinton smear campaign of 
Linda Tripp and Monica Lewinsky. 
As soon as Reeds allegations 
became public, Knights forces 
mobilized to denounce his charac
ter. Reed and his parents were sim
ply bitter about a situation where he 
didnt live up to expectations, some 
said. Many came forth denouncing 
his accusations as outright lies, 
attempting to discredit Reeds 
account of the incident by saying it 
never occurred. This group includ
ed trainers, assistant coaches, and 
fellow players.-
Then, the videotape showing 
Knight clearly placing his hands 
around Reeds neck in a forceful 
manner was released. Whoops. I 
find this third defense of Knight to 
be most distasteful. The others are 
merely questionable uses of reason, 
whereas this one is morally corrupt. 
By attempting to stain the character 
of a young man, Knights henchmen 
are trying to ensure their man gets 
off smelling like roses.
What should be done about the 
whole situation? I believe coach 
Knight should have to face the con
sequences of his actions. This does
nt necessarily mean he should be 
fired, although that is a possibility. 
Up until this point, the coach has 
remained pretty much mum on the
issue, letting his legion of backers 
present his defense for him. When 
he has answered questions regard
ing the incident, his answers have 
been of the characteristic sarcastic, 
demeaning, and combative nature 
that he is known for. He should
apologize for his actions in a sin
cere, meaningful way, and seriously 
try to contain his volcanic temper.
If he cannot do this, I do not 
believe he. deserves to continue 
enjoying the privilege of coaching 
college basketball.

---------------------------------------------------

Evolution of big-league ball and its records go hand-in-hand
JJ_ A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
Now that Cal Ripken has finished 
his run towards 3,000 career hits, 
baseball faces a relative lack of 
upcoming milestones. With three 
players chasing 3,000 during the 
1999 season (Tony Gwynn and 
Wade Boggs reached the goal, and 
'Ripken entered this season nine hits 
 short), the marketing offices of 
"Major League Baseball had a field 
"day promoting the chase for such a 
monumental career achievement. 
But what do these milestones mean 
^(lfor a players career?
f/ As we sit squarely in the middle of 
"the juiced ball era that has every 
'third or fourth pitch leaving the 
 Jterd for a home run, we must rede
fine what constitutes the major 
'.' fhilestones by which the individual 
'Aachievements of players are mea
sured, both in a single season and 
1 over the course of their careers.
'yv Single-season accom------------
!;plishmerits in recent years 
"re almost meaningless 
"ompared to numbers put 
up as recently as the mid to 
late 80s. Consider that in 
-the 37 years that Roger 
''A/Iaris held the home run 
mfriark at 61, the closest any,one came before McGwire 
r'/1alnd Sosa blasted into histo-'Vy in 1998 was 58, hit by 
l^cGwire in 1997.
u Prior to 1990, the standard for a 
"Capable home run hitter was 40 
Jkmg balls in a season and anyone 
Who broke 50 was worthy of an 
ihtentional walk in just about every 
" at bat. In 1985, Darrell Evans of the 
Tigers led the league with a mere 
? ,'40. In 1990, Cecil Fielder raised the 
: 'bar to 51, but the second place-finisher again had only 40. 
h ' Even as recently as 1993, only five 
^players hit more than 40. Last sea
son, 13 hitters broke 40, and 
McGwire and Sosa both broke 60 
for the second consecutive season.
Of course, someone has to be on 
the receiving end of all these home 
. runs, and the jump in hitting pro
duction is being matched equally 
well by a drop in pitching. With 
lfthe exception of Pedro Martinez 
and Randy Johnson, an ERA under 
.2.00 for a season has been'just a 
distant memory since around 
992.
The milestone that most reflects 
_rhe current state of pitching, howev
er, is the 20-win season. Todays 
pitchers are still held to the lofty 
goal of 20 wins that is practically 
unattainable in todays game 
(again, Martinez and Johnson 
aside).
With teams now using a rotation 
of five starters instead of four, pitch
ers get far fewer starts than their 
predecessors did, and with the new 
bullpen specialization managers 
love, a starter is much more likely to 
be pulled in the sixth or seventh 
inning of a tie game when he used to 
be able to stick it out and get the 
win.
With these changes factored in, 
the top pitchers now get between 17 
and 19 wins a season when they 
would have gotten 21 to 23 in years 
past. Since our fan culture likes big, 
round numbers, though, we still 
hold them to the 20-win plateau.
As a result, pitchers like the 
Orioles Mike Mussina who routine
ly bring in 18 or 19 wins a year but
A testimony to both skill and 
longevity, the 3,000-hit 
mark represents the ultimate 
accomplishment of an entire 
career rather than just a few 
good seasons.
have never quite made it to 20 are 
considered to be inferior players to 
the Tom Glavines or Greg Madduxes 
despite equal levels of talent.
Another casualty of bullpen spe
cialization is the number of innings 
pitched by both the starters and 
relievers. Starters are often limited 
to six or, at most, seven innings to 
give way to a series of relievers who 
face one or two batters each, or if 
theyre extremely lucky, last an 
entire inning. Starters used to be 
considered pansies if they threw 
less than 200 innings over the 
course of a season.
Now, however, most pitchers 
dont get anywhere near that mark, 
and, aside from Johnson, absolutely 
nobody goes past it. In the minds of 
many fans and Hall of Fame voters, 
however, the standard is set and 
does not change for the new state of 
the game. As a result, pitchers face 
an uphill battle in trying to prove 
themselves as reliable aces.
While the Major League offices
can tinker with the schedules and 
rules to their hearts content, they 
cant change the mindset of the 
fans. The standards for greatness 
that have been ingrained deeply 
into the minds of the common fan 
are simply not going to change. 
Admittedly, this isnt the most press
ing problem facing the league right 
now, but salvaging respect for pitch
ers and not overinflating the 
already expansive egos of power hit
ters would be a welcome side effect 
of corralling the offensive explo
sion.
Amazingly, there is one single
season accomplishment that even 
the juiced ball cant seem to help 
with. Despite teams getting 20 or so 
hits a game, there are still no players 
since Ted Williams to have a batting 
average above .400 for an entire 
season. In fact, if you take away 
Gwynns annual run at the mark, 
there are only a handful of players 
who have even come close since 
Williams last batted .406 way 
back in 1941.
As these single-season 
accomplishments become 
more and more skewed, 
they begin to add up and 
take career marks with 
them. A few seasons ago, 
McGwire was too injuryprone to make a run at 
Hank Aarons career home 
run mark. But if he contin------------- ues to hit 60 a year, the gap
closes a bit quicker and, suddenly, 
Big Mac is right up there.
It seems the only unaltered mark 
we have left is the 3,000 hit club, of 
which Ripken just became the 24th 
member. A testimony to both skill 
and longevity, the mark represents 
the ultimate accomplishment of an 
entire career rather than just a few 
good seasons. Of the 24 members of 
the most exclusive of clubs, only one 
man, Ty Cobb, was younger than 36 
when he made it in.
Since the next highest-hit total 
among active players is Wally 
Joyners 1,961, it will be quite some 
time until the club receives its 25 th 
member.
Until then, well just have to wait 
for someone to be the first member 
of the 1,000 home run club.
Matt Brun is a sophomore electri
cal and computer engineering major. 
He appreciates all thoughtful 
responses to his views at 
mbrun+@andrew.
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
classified
Championships around the corner
Travel
BE FLEXIBLE ... SAVE $SS 
Europe $169 (o/w + taxes)
CHEAP FARES WORLDWIDE!! 
Mexico/Caribbean $199 (r/t + taxes) 
Call: 1-800-326-2009 
www. 4 cheapair. com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America 
$229 r.t. Europe $169 o.w. Other 
worldwide destinations cheap. ONLY 
TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! 
Book tickets on line www.airtech.com. 
or 212-219-7000.
1970's to the present. Seeks sales ori
ented docent familiar with contempo
rary fine art. Knowledge of print making 
techniques and of art history a plus. 
Responsibilities include client sales and 
education, handling and hanging of art 
exhibitions. 13-30 hrs/wk, Wednesday 
thru Saturday, possibly Sunday, and by 
appointment. Letter, resume, references 
in c/o: Michael Berger Gallery, 401 
Bingham St, Pittsburgh, PA 15203.
Big Money !! Local Mortgage Company 
Seeking Energetic Telemarketers.
Evening Hours. Flexible Schedule. Easy 
way to make $$$$$. Call 802-8551
seasonal workers. Must be at least 18 
years old. Roofer's Helper, Exterior 
Painter, Exterior Pointing, Grass Cutter, 
college students OK. No experience 
necessary, but must be dependable and 
not afraid to work hard. $6.50/hr. 
Mozart Management 682-7003.
Student Organizations earn $1000- 
$2000 with the easy 
campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. No sales required. 
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so 
call today! Contact
campusfundraiser.com, 1 -888-923-3238, 
or visit www.campusfundraiser.com.
For Sale
5 or 6 Bedroom House for Rent in 
August. Immaculate. $1,800.00 + util
ities. 366-2583
Dental Screenings available at Pitt 
Dental School for $10. Includes Exam 
and X-rays. Persons who qualify may 
be eligible for limited free treatment on 
May 11 th and/or 12th 2000 only.
Please call 648-8616, mention this ad. 
Screening Dates: April 17th and 19th, 
1pm-4pm; April 21, 9am-12pm
FLOWERS for romance, formals, platonic, birthday, get well and more ... 
ALEX's FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. alexsflowers.com/delivery
For Rent - North Oakland. Fabulous 
1 & 2 BR apartments. Luxury Building, 
Great Location. MUST SEE!! Call 683- 
8683.
Hamilton Industries, Stratasteel 
drawing surface with bruning accutrac 
electric drawing board. (Standard 
Size). Good condition. Asking Price: 
$750.00. Phone 724-941-6979
Shadyside/Beautiful two and three 
bedroom apartments, two blocks from 
Walnut Street, carpeting, fully 
equipped kitchens, security, laundry, 
log burning fireplace, central a/c, 
deck. Available mid August. Rent 
$750.00 to $1100.00 plus utilities. 
461-5837.
Opportunities
Artist Gallerist P/T - Art Gallery relo
cating to Shadyside will display and sell 
primarily works on paper from the
CMU seeks qualified undergraduate 
students for summer research posi
tions in the sciences (June 5 to August 
11). Positions are available in the follow
ing areas: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, 
Mathematical Sciences, Physics, and 
Supercomputing. In addition, a limited 
number of grading or recitation posi
tions may be available to qualified indi
viduals in Mathematical Sciences. 
Students must be enrolled in a two or 
four-year university/college degree pro
gram. Compensation is based on expe
rience and the availability of funding. 
Generally, compensation will range from 
minimum wage to $8 per hour. 
Interested individuals should submit a 
letter of application specifying research 
interests, applicable experience, and 
transcript to: Summer Research 
Experience for Undergraduates, Office of 
the Dean, Mellon College of Science, 
CMU, 4400 Fifth Ave, Box B, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213.
HELP WANTED SS 1,000 S5 Fundraiser 
No effort. Big Money!! No investment. 
Work with your friends! Get a free Tshirt too. Call Sue at 800-808-7442 
ext. 104
How does 800/week extra income 
sound to you? Amazingly profitable 
opportunity. Send self-addressed 
stamped envelope to: International 
1 375 Coney Island Ave., PMB #427, 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
PR Assistant F/T. Must have MAC skills, 
especially in publishing programs 
(Photoshop, Quark, etc.) HTML skills a 
plus. Must have a car. Send resume to: 
Director of Public Relations, Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers, 477 Melwood Ave., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. No phone calls.
Seasonal Work: Shadyside 
Management Company needs full-time
Summer Childcare Needed F/T - car
needed. Pine Township - Treesdale.
Fun neighborhood, pools, tennis. 2 
great kids, 9 and 10. 299-8872.
Summer Office Work: Shadyside 
Management Company needs full-time 
summer help to take applications, 
answer telephones, and do general 
office work. Perfect for grad students 1 
and those entering grad school. Degree 
required. $7.50/hr. Mozart 
Management 682-7003.
Work for an exciting College focused 
Internet company at your school! 
Looking for motivated individuals with1 
strong leadership, entrepreneurial and 
business skills. Tech skills not required. 
Great experience, pay and options! 
Email resume and phone number to 
Recruiting@uconnections.com
Classified Rates
1-20 words............$10.00/wk
21-50 words............$12.00/wk
51-100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN  APRIL 17, 2000
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
F]irst-year player Elizabeth Weiss returns a shot during the Tartans match against Pittsburgh on Wednesday, April 5.
TENNIS, from page 10
On the mens side of the court 
things got off to a slow start against 
Case Western University. Since that 
time the team has rallied and 
enjoyed more success, not losing a 
match except for one over spring 
break.
Over spring break, the men were 
3-1, winning all their matches 
except a very close match to the 
University of St. Louis. The final 
score was 5-4, and the deciding 
singles match was lost 7-5 in the
third and final set.
The mens team came out strong 
after the break, defeating NYU at 
Muhlenberg College by a close 4-3 
count. The next day, the team also 
beat Muhlenberg with a convincing 
5-2 score.
Last week, on Wednesday, the 
Tartans defeated Slippery Rock in a 
9-0 crushing. Their next match is 
on Tuesday, at Edinborough.
According to singles player 
Apurva Kothari, the team is confi
dent and ready to head into the UAA
championships at Emory.
I think we should do pretty well, 
said Kothari, a senior. We have a 
tough lineup.
In addition to the good chance 
that the men have to make nation
als, an individual bright spot is firstyear student and number-one sin
gles player Kayvon Fatahalian, who 
has a decent chance of making 
nationals individually.
With a little luck both teams will 
advance players in the UAAs and 
possibly nationals.THE TARTAN
368-2111
V)

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
17 April 2000THE TARTANPage 12
Thursday, April 20 is the first day of Passover
Schedule of Events
1st Seder
Wednesday, 6:30 pm 
Rangos Hall, University Center
Cost: $15, students can use their meal plan to cover the 
cost of the meal 
RSVP by April 17
2nd Seder
Thursday 
Home Hospitality
Interested students will be matched up with a family in 
the community to celebrate Passover.
RSVP by April 17
Shabbat
Friday
Home Hospitality
Interested students will be matched up with a family in 
the community to celebrate this holiday.
RSVP by April 17
Lunches
Next Monday and Tuesday
Try some different Kosher Passover lunches instead of the same old meals. Call Hillel 
for details at (412) 621-8875.
RSVP by April 19
Alissa Taylor/Art Staff
Matzoh Balls (Knaidlech)
3 eggs
3 tablespoons chicken fat 
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons hot water or chicken soup 
3/4 cup matzoh meal
1) Separate the eggs
2) Beat the yolks until light colored and thick.
3) Add the chicken fat, which should be at room temperature, the salt, and water or soup.
4) Beat the whites until stiff but not too dry. Fold in.
5) Fold in the matzoh meal.
6) Refrigerate the batter for 1 hour or until batter is thick enough to form balls.
7) Drop the balls carefully into 2 quarts of boiling salted water or soup.
Cover and cook for 25 minutes.
8) Add Matzoh Balls to soup.
9) Cook for another 15 or 20 minutes in the soup.
from holidays.nel:
music
The Center for Integrated Study of 
the Human  Dimensions of Global 
Change Seminar Series presents its next 
lecture today at noon with Technology 
Commercialization and Environmental 
Regulation: Lessons from the U.S. Energy 
Sector. The presentation will be given by 
Vicki Norberg-Bohm, Director of the Energy 
Technology Innovation Project in the EPP 
Conference Room, Baker Hall 129.
B. K Atrostic, Senior Economist at the 
Center for Economic Studies at the U.S. 
Census Bureau, will present the next Bell 
Atlantic Distinguished Lecture in 
Telecommunications and Information 
Technology today at 2 pm in GSIA Building, 
room 153. The title of his lecture is 
Measuring the Electronic Economy."
Open Mind Monday Lecture contin
ues this afternoon. Joan Tronto, professor 
of political science at Hunter College and the 
Graduate School of the City University of 
New York, will speak on Professional Ethics 
and Moral Action: Is Competence a Moral 
Category? The talk will begin at 4:30 pm in 
the Adamson Wing.
The Adamson Visiting Writers 
Series wraps up its season at 8 pm tonight, 
in the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall, with 
readings by two of CMUs own  Jane 
Bernstein and Jane McCafferty. All readings 
are free and open to the public.
An Air Pollution Faculty Candidate 
Seminar will take place this Wednesday at 
9:15 am in Scaife Hall 301. Michael J. 
Kleeman, assistant professor of civil and 
environmental engineering at the University 
of California-Davis, will present Modeling 
the Atmospheric Aerosol at the Single 
Particle Level.
A CEDA/SDI Seminar will take place
this Wednesday beginning at noon in 
Hamerschlag Hall 1112. The seminar is 
titled CAD Challenges in Embedded 
Computing and will be presented by Wayne 
Wolfe from Princeton University.
aroundtown
The Carnegie Library Music and Art 
Departments in Oakland present 
Referents To," a display of CMU Graduate 
Student Art Exhibits. The exhibition runs 
through Sunday, April 30. Call (412) 622- 
3105 for more information.
The Whiskey Rebellion Toastmasters
meet every Wednesday evening from 7 pm to 
8:30 pm at the Magee Community Center, 
located at 745 Greenfield Avenue. For details 
and directions about this public speaking 
group, visit http://trfn.clpgh.org/speak, call 
(412) 481-0728, or send an email to 
hays@city-net.com.
The Pittsburgh Broadway Series 
presents The Civil War Our Story in Song 
April 18-23. Performances are Tuesday 
through Saturday at 8 pm, Saturday at 2 pm, 
and Sunday at 2 pm and 7:30 pm. For more 
information call (412) 392-3300
Doughty, lead singer of recently 
defunct band Soul Coughing, will be per
forming tonight at Rosebud at 7:30 pm. 
Doors open at 6 pm and there is a $5 cover 
charge. This is a 21 and over show.
The Arsonists will be performing this 
Tuesday at 7 pm at Club Laga in Oakland. 
Admission is $8 in advance and $10 at the 
door.
Alternative pop band Luna will be 
performing this Tuesday at Rosebud at 7:30 
pm. Doors open at 5:30 pm. Tickets are $13 
in advance and $15 on the day of the show. 
This is a 21 and over show.
A Contra Dancing event will take 
place at 8 pm this Friday at the Edgewood 
Club in Edgewood. Steve Bennett and the 
Buffalo Birds will perform. Admission is 
$6. For more information, call (412) 731- 
8661.
Gathering Field will be performing 
this Friday at 7:30 pm at Rosebud. Doors 
open at 6 pm and there is a $7 cover 
charge. This is a 21 and over show.
Lord Of The Dance will be performed 
at the Benedum Center from Wednesday, 
through Saturday. Shows are at 8 pm each 
evening with a 2 pm show on April 22. 
Tickets are $55.25 and $45.25, plus applic
able fees. They are available from the 
Benedum Center Box Office and all 
TicketMaster outlets, which may be 
reached at (412) 456-6666.
The University of Pittsburgh 
African Ensemble will present a concert 
this Saturday at 8 pm in the Bellefield Hall 
Auditorium in Oakland. Admission to the 
concert is free. For more information, call 
the Music Departments (412) 624-4125 or 
by email at concerts@pitt.edu.
museums
The Pittsburgh Society of Artists pre
sents First Person Singular, The SelfPortrait Redefined. This display is a juried 
exhibit at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
by PCA guild members and will be open to 
the public through Sunday, April 23.
Jean-Franqois Millet: Drawn into 
the Light will be on display through 
Sunday, April 23 at The Frick Art and 
Historical Center in Oakland. This exhibit is 
organized by The Clark Art Institute in asso
ciation with The Frick Art Museum.
The Andy Warhol Museum is current
ly exhibiting Andy Warhol Drawings 
1942-1987. It runs through April 30 and is 
located on 117 Sandusky Street. For more 
information, call (412) 237-8300 or visit 
http://www. warhol. org.
The Three River Arts Festival 
Gallery presents Glenn Kainos Chasing 
Perfect, a collaborative exhibition. The 
exhibit runs through May 13. The gallerys 
hours are Monday through Friday, 11 am to
6 pm, and Saturday, 2 pm to 7 pm.
The Wood Street Galleries is currently 
presenting an exhibit called Tim Rollins 
and K.O.S., 1981-2000 through May 13. 
Admission to this exhibition is free. The 
gallery is located at 601 Wood Street, 
Downtown. Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm 
on Tuesday and Wednesday, and 11 am to 7 
pm from Thursday to Saturday. For more 
information, call (412) 471-5605.
The two main galleries of the 
American Jewish Museum, located at 
5738 Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill, are re
created as an island paradise in which 
scores of original documentary pho
tographs, contemporary art, artifacts, 
sculpture, and graphic art will be on exhib
it until Wednesday, May 3L
oncampu
official voice of Tradition
all their hopes were dashed 
against the pavement
FBK! Lets cap the Caps!
cTve always been an 
obese man trapped in a 
fat mans body.
Hey Mables, 
that was a mistake 
Russel Wong is 
soooooooooo hot
Das Trinkhorn zur hand, 
wie halten wir es dann?
No more bread, Iris
I wonder if this is a Gwar crowd...
jessicap luvs X-files (someone's 
gotta take the blame lil* sister and 
it's not gonna be me!) (look under 
your bed for the tree man)
you guys want to meet me!
Chapter 8: When Esqueala got back from Mexico, it 
was Carnival weekend, so she went to a fraternity party in 
search of tequila. She drank too much and, next thing she 
knew, she had agreed to fill in as the fraternity's buggy 
driver. The buggy was painted piggy pink and called the 
Orifice in her honor. She was small enough to fit inside 
with room to spare; but since she was made entirely of 
polyester, she had no muscular control whatsoever. So 
the Orifice came in dead last, and the disappointed frat 
brothers refused to give her any more tequila.
I want three penises. One tattooed on 
my arm and one on each of my thighs.
one time I was in studio 
and I felt lilce a butterfly.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus communi
ty! To submit a vox, simply email it to 
tartdn@andreiv.cmu.edu, send it to The Tartan, University 
Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it in the Vox Populi 
drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. The comments 
in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan or any
body in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real oi interesting, then you're
The most up-to-date version of the 
Master Plan will be presented by the 
Architects Ayers/Saint/Gross tonight from
7 pm to 9 pm in Rangos Ballroom. This will 
be the last town meeting to give your input 
because next month they will be presenting 
the Plan to the Trustees.
The establishment of the Carnegie 
Mellon Institute for Survivable 
Systems will be officially announced by 
President Jared L. Cohon at 10:15 am this 
Wednesday in the Software Engineering 
Institute auditorium.
The University Forum will be hold
ing I Feel Good vs I Cant Get No 
Satisfaction, a public discussion about. 
the Carnegie Mellon curriculum in the 
McKenna/Peter Room this Thursday start
ing at 4:45 pm. For more information con
tact the Office of Student Activities at (412) 
268-8704.
The University Art Gallerys latest 
exhibit is titled Drawings in Pen and 
Pencil, and features artwork by Hwee 
Kuan Lee. The display runs from this 
Tuesday until May 6 with an opening recep
tion this Wednesday from 6 pm to 8 pm in 
the gallery. For further information, please 
call the UC information desk at (412) 268- 
2107.
The next School of Drama produc
tion is The Country Wife written by 
William Wycherly and directed by Gregory 
Lehane. The show runs from April 28-29, 
May 2-5 at 8 pm and April 29 at 2 pm in the 
Philip Chosky Theatre, Purnell Center for 
the Arts. For ticket information, call the 
Drama box office at (412) 268-2407.
Mathilde meets every Monday night 
from 5 to 6 pm in Skibo to converse in 
French. Speakers of all levels are invited.
Spanish Table takes place every 
Tuesday from 11:30 am to 1 pm in Skibo 
Coffeehouse. Speakers of all Spanish levels 
are invited.
Kaffeestunde is held every Tuesday 
from 3:30 to 5 pm in Skibo coffeehouse. All 
speakers of German are invited.
religion
The Mass of Easter will take place this 
Sunday at 10 am at the Newman Center' 
Chapel, 10:30 am at GSIA, and noon in 
Heinz Chapel. Other Pitt and CMU Masses 
will not be celebrated on Easter Sunday 
only. For more information, call the 
Catholic Newman Center  The Oratory at 
(412) 681-3181.
The Catholic Alumni Club of 
Pittsburgh, the largest Catholic singles 
group in Western Pennsylvania, sponsors a 
weekly volleyball program at St Edmunds 
Academy in Squirrel Hill every Wednesday 
evening at 8 pm. For more information, call 
(412) 766-6574 or (412) 341-4070.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Art by: Justin Suissa/Art Editoi 
Photo by: Lisette Miller-Dixon/Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Chris Messina/Co-Produdion Manager
Avocado wins Mobot competition; record shattered in open class category
Gate 14 in 1:14.90
Gate 10 in 1:42.62 
Gate 8 in 3:26.05 
Gate 3 in 2:13.
Gate 8 in 1:12.44
Ian Nieves, a junior computer science major, watches his mobot, Harley-2, 
take third place in the Undergraduate competition. Ashish.Venugopal also 
worked on the mobot which used LEGO technology to navigate the course.
The Avocado, a mobot built by 
Brian Dougherty, a junior electrical 
and computer engineering major, 
took the first place prize of $1000, 
passing through 10 gates in 1:42.62. 
As probably the smallest mobot in 
the competition, The Avocado 
appeared to traverse the course 
with ease.
I think mainly Im glad that it just 
didnt mess up, said Dougherty. 
My strategy was to do the sensing 
and motors really well so that the 
algorithm could be simple, he said.
The second prize of $500 went to 
MMM-Bot, which was built by 
Morgan Simmons, a senior mechan
ical engineering major, and Merle 
Romesberg, a senior computer sci
ence major. It completed eight gates 
in 3:26.05.
Rounding out the top three and 
winning $250 was the LEGO-based 
Harley-2, built by junior computer 
science majors Ian Nieves and 
Ashish Venugopal. It completed 
three gates in 2:13.62.
No entrant in the undergraduate 
category has finished the course 
during the events six year history'.
Im still hoping an undergradu
ate will complete the course. Teams 
are getting into the decisions but 
havent made it all the way 
through, said Greg Armstrong, 
member of the Mobot Committee 
and Robot Maintainer at the Robot 
Learning Laboratory.
The Mobot Committee also gave 
out a judges choice award, which is 
given to recognize a particularly 
unusual, entertaining, or notewor
thy entrant, according to 
Committee members. This years 
award went to V-Dog, which was 
entered in the Open Class. This 
red v-shaped mobot was of particu
lar interest because when it got lost, 
it reversed its path to get back on 
track. V-Dog ended up going back 
and forth through one of the gates 
four times.
Another interesting occurrence 
was when the mobot Darth Bobo 
quickly and unexpectedly rocketed 
into the crowd. Fortunately, no one
was injured.
Participants said that varying 
conditions make the competition 
difficult. Dan Maynes-Aminzade, a 
junior computer science major who 
won the contest last year, said that 
the bright sun has proven to be a 
challenge for some mobots. His 
mobot Eeyore made it through 
only one gate this year.
I think mobot is probably one of
the most simultaneously rewarding 
and frustrating things Ive done. It 
is so nerve-racking as your mobot 
goes down the course because you 
know it so well from having been 
out so much. Your heart skips a beat 
by every bump, smudge on the line, 
and hazard that can stray the mobot 
off course, said Maynes-Aminzade. 
Im frustrated but not disheartened 
for next year, he said. .
Mobots battle for MoboJoust title
The Avocado 
MMM-Bot 
2
by Seth Mandel
Managing Editor
After a mobot passed the finish 
line of the Mobot Slalom Race 
course last year, event organizers 
decided that it was time to make the 
competition a little more interest
ing. Head-to-head competition 
among the machines was the way to 
do that, said Greg Armstrong, 
Mobot Committee member and 
Robot Maintainer at the Robot 
Learning Laboratory.
When we were at the commit
tee meeting, we decided that 
since the course was completed, it 
was time to expand [the event], 
said Armstrong. A lot of people 
wanted to work on simpler robots 
that still had some complexity, 
he said.
MoboJoust, a new sideshow 
event of the sixth annual Mobot 
Race, allowed participants to do 
just that. Held between heats of 
the regular races, MoboJoust 
consisted of a special arena that 
allowed two mobots to be placed 
up against a barrier at opposite 
sides. The arena was 4 x 8 and 
had the start and finish lines one 
foot from each end.
When the contest began, the 
barriers were simultaneously low
ered and the two competing 
mobots attempted to make it to 
their opponents start line first. 
There were a total of eight mobots 
entered in the double elimination 
competition.
Power, speed, and ingenuity 
had to be used to get the edge 
needed to pass through their com
petitor. The mobots entered in 
MoboJoust certainly used varying 
approaches, from big and power
ful to quick and nimble. One con
testant even entered a small wind
up car in the competition.
Participants in the event seemed 
to enjoy the opportunity to be cre
ative and build a machine that did 
not take a lot of time to complete.
My roommate made fun of me 
because he didnt believe me when I
--------------------------------------
| by Seth Mandel
j Managing Editor
| A year after the first mobile robot,
| or mobot, successfully completed 
the Mobot Slalom Race course, a 
i new record for the course was set. A
This years record-setting mobot 
was built by John Moody, senior 
computer science major, Jeff 
Thomas, senior electrical and com
puter engineering major, and 
Michael Rizk, senior mechanical 
engineering major, with Herman 
Schmit, a professor in electrical and
On its first attempt, Timmy 
strayed off the course near the final 
decision points. After the team 
explained to judges that a camera
mans shadow might have thrown 
the mobots tracking system off the 
line, Timmy was permitted to run 
the course again without any interBrun/Special Projects Manager
irlTeam members tried to retrieve a lost mobot after it strayed from the Robot Slalom Race course. Infrared sensors 
f i^nd video cameras were two of the techniques with which Mobots tried to pass through as many gates as possible.
[. minute was shaved off of last years 
^record as a mobot named Timmy 
jtompleted the course in 1:14.90 
t during the sixth annual Mobot 
Races last Friday.
' ' To finish the course, a self-con
tained vehicle must traverse a series 
of 14 gates placed at increments 
along a white line painted on the 
"Sidewalk outside of Wean and 
. Doherty Halls. At the final gates, 
1 there are a series of branching forks, 
1 known as decision points, which 
 make the course difficult, explain 
 event organizers.
computer engineering serving as 
their advisor. Although the three 
team members are undergraduate 
students, their mobot was entered 
in the Open Class category since 
the same physical mobot was used 
for three years, said team members. 
The Open Class is traditionally 
designated for people affiliated with 
the University but not eligible for 
the Undergraduate Category, 
which is for current full-time under
graduate students. The winners of 
this category were awarded a $250 
prize.
ference. The mobot, which uses an 
on-board video camera to follow the 
line, passed the finish line during 
that attempt.
Although there were loud com
plaints and criticisms coming from 
team supporters in the audience, 
members of the Timmy team said 
they felt no hard feelings regarding 
the incident.
It was an honest mistake. It was 
nice of the committee to let us go 
again, said Thomas.
There were no such controversies 
in the Undergraduate competition.
! Timmy," the winner of the Open category in the mobot competition, moves towards the finish line. Seniors John 
; Moody, Jeff Thomas, and Michael Rizk built the mobot with Professor Herman Schmit serving as their advisor.
Michael Raisman/Photo Staff
The simple design of "One Day" strategically posistioned larger opponents 
above it so that it could flip them over and slowly proceed towards the finish.
er and quicker mobots propelled 
themselves towards it, One Day 
allowed the others to climb it and 
then simultaneously flip over. 
With its challenger lying on its 
back with its wheels furiously spin
ning in mid air, One Day slowly 
crawled its way to the finish line, 
confirming that sometimes the 
tortoise does indeed beat the 
hare.
more jumping ones. There was 
one that jumped, but it didnt do 
so well, he said.
Its nice to have a new competi
tion. It allows for creativity, said 
Kirby, who added that there were 
many varying techniques used 
because the event was so new. If 
the event*runs long enough, [I 
suspect] all of the mobots will 
become the same, he said.
said I could build a mobot in six 
hours. So I went ahead and built it 
[to prove him wrong], said 
Enrique Irigoyen, a first year 
undecided student in MCS, whose 
One Day mobot performed quite 
well in the competition.
Irigoyens mobot, with its 
rounded cardboard covering, was 
one of the more clever designs in 
the MoboJoust competition. As it 
slowly crawled along the table, it 
proved that sometimes the best
offense is a good defense. As
In the end, however, it was the 
forceful Overkill, built by firstyear electrical and computer engi
neering major Brian Kirby and 
junior mechanical engineering 
major Jonathan Hurst, that pre
vailed in the final round of the 
Mobojoust competition.
Speed 'and power were key. I 
Was surprised that the big, power
ful mobot won, said Ben Brown. 
Mobot Committee member and 
Project Scientist at the Robotics

---------------------------------------------------

2000: A ROUND Thlg
Booth
Phi Kap, Zeta, ASA take home first place trophies in Booth competitions
[our hard work], said Phi Kappa In previous years the competieveryone knows that you did it
by Emily Landes Thetas Booth Chair Matthew tion has been very fierce; it got the best.
Senior Staffwriter Malter-Cohen, moments before dirty at times, said the senior Although the pressures to gain a
the awards were announced. But mechanical engineering major, trophy are often felt, the seeming
Bring it home! chanted the I just think that at this point it This year, by contrast, when obligation of maintaining that
brothers of Phi Kappa Theta, as doesnt matter that much because Sigma Phi Epsilon moved their trophy after the organization had
one by one the trophies for Booth I saw the faces on all of my brothbooth onto the Morewood parking won first place the previous year
were given out at last Saturday ers after we finished and it was lot they were given a round of can be even more intense. After
evenings Midway awards. After pure happiness. Everyone had a applause by all the surrounding Delta Upsilon fell from first place
seeing the third place and second really good time this year, better fraternities. for last years Wheres Waldo to
place trophies handed to Delta than we have [had before]. That I think that this brought us a third place trophy for this years
Upsilon and Sigma Phi Epsilon became what was important. together as a Greek community, Egyptian temple, their booth
respectively, the members of Phi While building camaraderie he said. chair rather glumly accepted their
award and left the stage without 
giving an acceptance speech.
But Delta Upsilon brother Matt 
Matthias claims that the organization was not as disappointed as 
their appearance at the awards 
may have indicated.
I think its kind of hard coming 
off a victory like that, said
'wiSrin? In I Matthias, a sophomore business
... I major. referring to last years win.
j?jnTTj1 But at the same time I think that 
fjf Png at^jjil I j [HB3111 .1 it happens, everyone at the house
' -)&jk pffpgflmjllBMby only going to make us try harder
to maintain their first place tro-Jttfm iBIllI.itll ~ phy was Zeta Psi Sigma, who won
the Sorority competition for
~ 7 - ; f 1 T \ \  1 Booth. The sorority had won last
* rSimm !j*^ my fljHinillllllii l \ \   | -vear fr 'Charlotte's Web" and
received the same honor this year 
for their Hanging Gardens of 
Babylon.
Alpha Epsilon Pis"Easter Island booth, standing at Carnival prior to its unanticipated collapse later that afternoon. Everyone had the aspiration of
getting first place, of bringing the
Kappa Theta seemed more and within organizations is a common Brotherhood and togetherness trophy back to us, said Zetas
more assured of their victory in result of constructing a booth, aside, the simple thrill of victory Booth Chair, Carolyn Calisti. We
the fraternity division. They were some even believe that the usual can be one of the major rewards won. We did great. So, now were
not disappointed when, moments divisions between the fraternities of working on a booth. It can just going to be happy.
later, their Wild Wild West lessen somewhat during Carnival, often be disappointing to spend Also holding their position for 
booth was given the competitions Greg Harrigan, the Booth chair time and effort on a booths erethe second year in a row was 
top prize. Their cheers, hoots, and for second place winner Sigma ation and feel that you have Kappa Kappa Gamma, whose
exploding beverages acted as the Phi Epsilon, believes that this received less than your due. Ancient Mayan Ruins mainclosing call to this years formidayears competition between the In an address to his brothers tained the 2nd place trophy that
ble Spring Carnival Booth compefraternities, while sometimes while accepting their 2nd place the organization took home the
tition. stiff, actually brought these orgatrophy, Harriigan joked, You year before with Paddington
I just think a win. will justify nizations closer together. know you got robbed, but its ok, Station.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Having been unable to place the
year before, Delta Delta Delta wasW
very happy to win the third place 
trophy for their Japanese Rock 
Gardens.
We didn't have any expectaBssaw tions, said co-Booth chair
Danyale Monteleone, a senior 
math major, of their win. We 
^ wanted a good booth that we
Si J Jplra were proud of and thats what we
In the Independent booths, the 
Asian Student Association once 
again took top honors for their 
/ Alaskan booth, though co-Booth
km *! '%}' | chair Peter Tong admits that he
jtiT' . J \was quite worried that his organi^ p   zation might have a tough time
^ # A, taking home the first place tro.. >7 ., / f P/ _ ^ phyI fjj \ 4 I  It was kind of scary when it
>>'i ( IAjI/ came down to it, said Tong, a
/./ I sophomore architecture major. 1
JV-. think that everyone did a good job
 WmS and the booths were the best Ive
% nH SHnnHi
_I1 ml HHHp Tong said that he hopes to
J | again next year. Perhaps as an
incentive to bring his award-winI ning crew back again, he and felI low c*1air Wayne Chang took
^Q9jj|S9 everyone out to dinner after the
I awards to thank them for all of
^ I their hard work,
ttfck - -4j||y 'i&L YflHH When interviewed before the
; \ I competition, Chang, a third-yearm Jr II IM ~.rfrg> }* * x while he was fairly confident in
his organizations chances, he did
s.--- %?. a lQt f competition from
 v v/ V Fringe and the Singapore Student
ft\ i Association (SSA), who placed
K \ second and third respectively.
.. W 8 H According to Fringe President
PkLauren Holz, that second place
I win in Booth only helped to 
1 cement her vision of Saturday as
_ ni one of the best days in Fringe hisBolstered by team records set ;ii
J_j|nr------rirrirtthat morning. Holz seeiiu-il
llU!'|,'ni in lur organization's 
I booth and was anticipating a \ ic
I IV.
"1 think this is a really great 
I booth and a lot oi work was put
I into it. I think that may be
I rewarded." said the junior IDS
nK1Jor in an interview just prior to 
the awards.
The judges also rewarded SSA
Sisters of Zeta Psi Sigma celebrate their Booth victory in the Sorority division. Their design featured the with a third place trophy for all of
theme "Hanging Gardens of Babylon. Last years Zeta booth also won first place for Charlottes Web." their hard work. Remarkably, the
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Contributing Editor
Kris Andreassen/Contributing Ediior
Carnival goers check out Phi Kappa Theta's first-place winning "Wild 
Wild West booth. Last years "Emerald City booth got third place. ,
organization won the award even 
though it was their first time 
entering a booth into competi
tion.
Whether just starting out or 
continuing a long tradition, win
ning Booth is something that 
almost every organization tries to 
achieve. But, interestingly, for the 
brothers at Sigma Nu, losing the 
booth competition actually 
appears to be the goal. For many 
years, the organization has 
brought out the same structure 
that they used the year before, 
and painted it according to that 
years theme.
When asked why the organiza
tion put up a booth at all, brother 
Todd Phillips responded, Its tra
dition. And we make a little bit of 
money. A very little bit of money.
But this year, even Sigma Nu 
had aspirations for their booth.
Were hoping that were not 
going to get last. We heard that 
AEPi fell down so hopefully
theyre going to get last and vye 
wont, said Phillips, a sophomore 
math major.
Phillips was referring to the 2n,d 
floor collapse of Alpha Epsilon 
Pis booth last Friday, which 
injured several people and, as it 
missed one round of judging, 
eliminated their booth from the 
competition. [See Full Story on 
Page 1.] Had their booth made it 
through the weekend, most fra
ternities believe that their Easter 
Island booth would ha\$2 
increased the already stiff comp
tition in that category.
Yet organizers can only feel 
empathy for the fraternity, think
ing about how they would have 
felt had their own booths col
lapsed in an uanticipated frenay 
after so much work.
I thought their booth was real
ly really good and I just felt ba$ 
for their [Booth] chair, said Phi 
Kappa Thetas Malter-Cohen. ]I 
dont know what I would do.
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
Kris Andreassen/Contributing Editb
KDR brothers get their 'Pittsburgh" booth ready for Spring Carnival 200d

---------------------------------------------------

11358
W,-feport photos, railpasses^SICs, 
hostelands, airport transfrsJgMr/guj 
books and mojfE
HOW TO USE THE 
BATHROOM. f
>o you know thatyou use up to 55 gallons of water a day in th bathroom?
It's true. So here's some simple bathrooih training to help conserve water.: 
Turn off the faucet while brushing our teeth. Take shorter showers.
% Put a weighted jug in your toilet tank. It'll cut water loss b;
And if you can't remember thetee tips, take this paper with 
| next time you go. ISOO-MY-SHAKE,
IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE
L Earth Share
GET DRESSED BEFORE YOU HIT THE ROAD.
Gloves help your grip. Leathers 
help prevent Hypothermia. And all 
gear protects against flying objects. 
Which is vital if you ever 
become the flying object. 
MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION
IMMIGRATION IAW 
GREEN CARDS-EMPLOYMENT VISASPOST GRADUATE RESEARCH EMPLOYMENT 
20 YEARS EXPERIENCE 
ATTORNEY S. SANFORD KANTZ 
724-658-2313
Council
Mexico City 
Sydney
Aprpil-i M-ayiOla'R
Sessions
Courses, Workshops, Seminars, 
Study Abroad
Transferable Credits
Accelerated Sessions
Start Dates: May through July
Register by fax, phone, mail or 
in person
Call 1.800.283.3853 for our 
complete Summer 2000 
Information!Application 
Package
, . IESNE 
INIVERSITY 
Pittsburgh, PA 15282 
www.duq.edu 
e-mail: summer@duq.edu
is TIAA-CREF the 
mice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for 
good reasons:
 Easy diversification among a range of expertly 
managed funds
 Solid performance and exceptional personal service
 Strong commitment to low expenses
 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more 
than 80 years,TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff 
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for 
and enjoysuccessful retirements.
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go 
with the leader:TIAA-CREF.
THE TIAA-CREF 
ADVANTAGE
Proven Performance
Low Expenses
Highly Rated
Quality Service
Trusted Name
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.DZ0 842-2776
WWW.tiaa-cref.
Drdingi to DALBAR. Inc, a financial services research firm. In its most recent study. 1997 Defined Contribution Sentience ftnwgs/TIAA-CREF was voted number one In participant satisfaction.TIAA-CREF Irxfividual and Institutional Services, Inc distributes CREF certificates and interests in the 71AA Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Investors 
Servkes,lncdlstributes the variable component of the personal annuities,mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. TTAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Cb.Jssueinsurance
and annuities. TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. Investment products arc not FWC irmirL may lose value and an not bank .......
For more complete Information on our securities products, including charges and expenses.call 1 000 842-2776,ext5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money, o 2000TIAA-CREF 1AX)
SB
fMJ*
FREE 80 MUTE
A Suite for Less Than a Hotel RoomFree 80 Minute
Phone Cards @Elegantly furnished one or two bedroom suites with equipped kitchens, cable TV, VCR, free local phone, parking and located a few steps from Walnut Street shopping.
E
get paid to surf the webm
Daily, Weekly, & Monthly Ratesmore
5405 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15232  shadysideinn.com  (412) 441-4444

---------------------------------------------------

HISTORICAL HIGHLIGHTS FROM 80 YEARS OF:
BUGGY
fH3B - Buggy begins as an event of the 
Interfraternity Sweepstakes for the first 
alumni celebration.
fH3S - Independent organizations 
besides fraternities are able to 
participate in buggy.
fH&T C fH&O - Buggy is not held during 
World War II.
fH&k - Post World War II buggies are 
built as soapbox derbys with four wheels.
 ;^8BWBBWfrC. i I 
fHOT - ATO's Golden Goose is the first 
modem day" buggy. With the driver prone 
face forward and low to ground this lightweight. 
3 wheeled design was very innovative.
fHkB - DU enters a keg of beer with 
four wheels mounted on in buggy.
fHkO - Sweepstakes is featured in the 
March 1965 issue in National Geographic.
%> ' ? if - |p -
fHGH - Women participate for the 
first time in their own heats.
NHST - PIKA's Bullet buggy sets a course record 
of 2:09.
3BBB - The 80h anniversary of buggy.
fHSk - Jerry Lewis is a grand marshall of 
Sweepstakes '86.

---------------------------------------------------

Sigma Alpha Epsilon crosses the finish line on Saturday to earn 9th place in Sweepstakes. SAEs buggy Rubicon" placed second in the design competition 
behind Fringe. Rubicon is named after a river that Julius Caesar crossed when he defied the Roman Senate almost two thousand years ago.
Official Results for
. ^ r Mg-NIVAL 2000: AROLWp JHp ^ _
Man's Buggy
PiKA A mens beats out Fringe, SDC to take first place in Sweepstakes races
The Spirit team pushes a buggy at Fridays competition. In past years, Spirit has generally placed among the top finishers, but due to a spin-out on day one 
the Spirit A men's team was unable to make it to this years finals. Spirits B team missed qualifying for the finals by only two places in the Sweepstakes race.
I'SDcilHHHl2:35.79
2. Fringe A2:36.94
3. PiKA ATOMH2:38.29
4. Spirit A2:38.91
S. CIA A2:43.77
6. KDRA2:53.83
7. Pioneers A3:00.01
8. Spirit B3:01.17
9. Sig NuA3:03.83
10. SDC B3:05.58
11. Beta A3:06.13
12. CIA B3:17.16
13. SigEpA3:29.34
14. Fringe C3:32.58
Fringe BDQ - Push bar
PiKA BDQ - 5 second rule
SDC CDQ - Pushbar
1. PiKA A2:07.4116. CIA A2:25.70
2. Fringe A2:11.6517. DTD A2:27.35
3. SDC A2:12.9418. Beta B2:30.24
4.Sig NuA2:13.0919. CIA B2:30.40
5. KDRA2:13.3120. SAE B2:30.45
6. Pioneers A 2:15.6221. Fringe C2:31.84
7. PiKA C2:18.7922. SDC C2:34.38
8. Beta A2:19.6223.KDRC2:34.38
9. SAE A2:20.7824. SigEpA2:36.88
10. PiKA B2:33.9925. Spirit C2:43.03
11. SDC B2:20.0726. Fringe D2:43.63
12. Spirit B2:21.7427. Beta C2:45.26
13. Fringe B2:22.5828. CIA C2:47.55
14. Pioneers B 2:23.6329. SAE C4:17.95
15. KDRB2:23.70
Spirit ADNF-Spun
Phi KapADQ-Drops
Sig Nu BDQ-Drops
mu
1. Fringe Bachi, Bandit
2. SAE Rubicon
3. Beta Beast
by Bradley Fearn
Contributing Editor
Pi Kappa Alpha shined at this 
years Sweepstakes competition. 
|Eqtialing last years achievements, 
PiKA sent an impressive three 
teams to the finals Saturday morn
ing. Fringe, SDC, Sigma Nu, Kappa 
Delta Rho, and Pioneers A rounded 
out the top six finishers.
During Fridays heats, Sig Nus B 
team and Phi Kaps A team were dis
qualified after failing the brake test 
mandatory for all buggies. Spirits 
A team unfortunately spun out in 
.the chute Friday due to mechanical 
problems. Thankfully, nobody was 
injured. With the dry conditions, 
those were the only disqualifica
tions and accidents.
Saturday morning, Betas B team 
and SDCs C team re-rolled, but to 
no avail, as neither qualified for the 
upcoming finals. After Fridays 
qualifying round, PiKA looked to 
win handily during the finals. 
Without SDC, Fringe, and Spirit, 
we could not have recorded our 
:times. Its the competition that 
brings out the best in us, so we con
gratulate everyone on their 
efforts, said Josh Scott, PiKAs A 
team Hill 2 pusher and team cap
tain.
With Spirit out of the competi
tion, Fringe and SDC looked to be 
the main challengers to unseat 
PiKA as mens champions. PiKAs 
qualifying time of 2:06.71 was a 
house record, and nearly broke the 
course record of 2:06.2 held by 
Spirit. After yesterdays time, we 
knew we had a shot at the course 
record this morning, so that was 
what we were shooting for. Tom 
Wood, our alumni guru, told us the 
race was money in the bank, said 
Scott.
Inspired by their large fan sup
port at the top of Hill 1, PiKAs A 
team raced to its second victory in 
as many years with a great time of 
2:07.41, about 1.5 seconds off the 
course record. That time was a 
two second improvement over last 
year. Following the official time 
postings, PiKA led all teams with a 
champagne filled celebration. 
Pushing for PiKA were John Mays, 
Josh Scott, Josh Burch, Steven 
Joyner, and Antonio Pais. After 
not finishing in last years race, 
David Liu, Steve Meckle, Matt 
Gustin, Chris Stratis, and Jeff Hoel 
led Fringes A team to a strong sec
ond place finish with a time of 
2:11.65.
Moving up one spot from last 
year, SDC, led by Mike Walsh, Greg 
Li, Jason Lentz, Dave Dixon, Alex
Thompson, and driver Karen 
Werther, finished third with a 
time of 2:12.94. We trained 
more intensively and more consis
tently than in past years, said 
Thompson. After Friday, we 
knew our exchanges were bad, so 
our goal was to move into second 
place. Unfortunately, we didnt 
do that, but in the process we 
moved ahead of Sig Nu and took 
third, he added.
Breaking into the top 6, after 
last years unfortunate disqualifi
cation, Sigma Nus A team barely 
missed third place, finishing with 
a 2:13.09, just a mere .15 seconds 
behind SDC. Like SDC, Kappa 
Delta Rhos A team improved one 
spot from last year, running with
in a half second of : third at 
2:13.31.
The final award winner of the 
competition was the Pioneers A 
team, recording a time of 2:15.62. 
For a C team, and after being dis
qualified last year, Pikas came in 
seventh with an impressive 
2:18.79. In eighth, Betas A team 
ran a 2:19.62. Running a 2:20.78 
was good enough for ninth place 
for Sigma Alpha Epsilon. 
Suffering from mechanical diffi
culties, Pikas B team capped off 
the top ten, with a disappointing 
2:33.99.
The Pioneers team pushes a buggy towards the finish line in this'weekends race. The team took sixth in Sweepstakes. 
Pioneers teams are among the Independent team competitors that performed well in the competition.

---------------------------------------------------

Nathan Steinwald/Contributing Editor
Student Dormitory Council womens A team wins first Buggy race since 1981
by Nathan S einwald
Contributing Editor
Every year Buggy is surropnded 
by hype and jxpectation, and every 
year in recen memory foul/Weather 
has dampened that expectation, not 
to mention b iggies and spectators. 
This year as Buggy approached, sev
eral accidents and injuries were 
casting ominous shadows over the 
fast-approaching race day, but in a 
twist of fate that perhrfps should be 
expected ,at this point, the clouds 
over Pittsburgh cleared for Carnival, 
and race day went/off almost per
fectly.
This years womens Buggy was 
one of the jnost xciting and com
petitive in recen/ memory. For the 
first time inct 1981, SDC took 
home the first place trophy. The pre
liminary round on Friday opened 
with the top four teams finishing 
within less tfern three seconds of 
each other. SDCs A team led the 
way, posting c time of 2:37.94. Fouryear driver K ren Werther and her 
push team, vpich she describes as 
the best she as ever had, finished 
more than a second ahead of the 
next team,. Frnge A.
Fringe A his followed a pattern 
- similar to a umber of the top-fin
ishing byggis this year, climbing up 
in the tanc ngs over a period of 
years follow! lg absences from com
petition alto ether. In 1997 Fringe 
did not raceH buggy. In 1998, they
finished the preliminary round in 
seventh place, one less than needed 
to make the finals. In 1999, they 
climbed into fourth place. This year, 
in the opening round, they finished 
ahead of perennial contenders PiKA 
Aand Spirit A.
PiKA A and Spirit A finished third 
and fourth respectively, separated 
by only 0.07 seconds. Five seconds 
back from the front pack was CIA A, 
which made a tremendous improve
ment over its twelfth place finish 
from last year, after not even racing 
in 1998. Fringe B and PiKA B were 
the sixth and seventh place time fin
ishers on day one, but they were dis
qualified afterwards. Their disquali
fications made room for KDR A, 
another fast-rising team that has 
missed a few years of competition. 
KDRs and CIAs times were clearly 
outside of the range of the top four 
teams, but since anything can hap
pen on race day and just making the 
finals is tough enough, the effort of 
the racing teams is a significant fac
tor.
Day two started off even better 
than day one. The weather was 
warmer and the crowds were bigger. 
Just seeing so many CMU students 
out and about before 8 am was a lit
tle shocking in itself. Thinking about 
what most of them were probably 
doing to enjoy Carnival the night 
before made the gathering almost 
unbelievable. As the first buggies of 
the day, KDR A and PiKA A, lined 
up, there was a buzz in the air (no
Ashley Kinsey pushes a buggy for PiKA womens A team which placed third in this years races, 
and womens Sweepstakes divisions last year. PiKA men are looking toward to a three-peat in next yearns competitions,
Brian Smith/Contributing Editor
The Fringe A team finished second with a time of 2:36.94 in Saturdays finals. In addition to performing well in both mens and womens buggy, Fringe fin' ished second in the overall Sweepstakes Design Competition. The first place winner, SDC A finished with a time of 2:35.79.
pun intended). /
Both buggies came off the line 
with more energy than the day 
before. PiKA A established an early 
lead on Hill 1 before entering the 
freeroll, a portion of the course they 
rarely lose. By the time they came 
out of the chute they had estab
lished a solid lead and it was a oneteam race to the finish, line against 
the clock. PiKA A came in with a 
time of 2:38.29, Which would stand 
up for third .place, and KDR finished 
with a time of 2:53.83. Both times 
were faster than Fridays, and were 
portents of things to come.
' In the second race, CIA A faced off 
against Fringe A. On Hill 1, Laura 
Rosensteel posted a time of 21.10 
seconds, the fastest Hill 1 time of 
the two-day races. On day 1, Beta A 
teams Erin Rockwell posted a time 
of 21.49, the fastest for that day. 
Unfortunately, Rockwell did not get 
a chance to defend her title on day 
two because Beta A was not able to 
make the final round. Rosensteel 
had hoped to win Hill 1 on the first 
day, and was even more motivated 
to do so on day two.
I hoped I would get it yesterday, 
but I didnt, so that motivated me 
today, said Rosensteel.
After their teams good start, the 
rest of the Fringe push team and 
driver Janice Golenbock brought 
the buggy home with a blistering 
time of 2:36.94. jfhe .team was 
excited about the" finish, and hope
ful for next year.
We beat SDCs time from yesterdayand we thought everyones time 
would be faster, said Rosensteel. 
Two-two [womens and mens finind won both the mens1 
dominance over Buggy..
ishes] this ye^r, but hopefully next 
year it~Wil] be one-one.
CIA finished with a time of 
2:43.95 seconds. The challenge had 
been made to SDC A and Spirit A; 
No womens team had run a time 
that fast since 1996 when Spirit A 
ran 2:36.37, crushing their competij 
tion by 15 seconds. In order to win; 
SDC would need to improve by one 
second, and Spirit would need an 
even bigger lift of four seconds.
The race started off well for SDCi 
They were unable to match Fringes 
Hill 1 time, but made it through the 
freeroll and into Hill 3 with enough 
time to threaten their competition. 
Their back hill pushers came 
through big in the end, chasing th 
clock, as happens every race sinc 
the top buggies dont go head to 
head. SDC crossed the finish line in 
style with a time of 2:35.79 sec
onds, followed by Spirit with a time 
of 2:38.91  good enough for 
fourth place.
Last year we had a womens 
third and a mens fourth, said 
SDCs Werther. This is the best Ive 
ever ddne. The weather definitely 
helped, but our women were awer 
some this year. We only had tw(^ 
returning A team pushers and one 
senior, so were looking to improve 
our time next year since we will 
have four people returning from 
this year.
Summing up the general senti
ment for the day as the crowds dis
persed after buggy was Fringe push 
captain Chris Stratis, who said, 
Weve had a lot of fun, but its only 
going to get better now. Its time to 
celebrate!
Nathan Steinwald/ContributinB Editor
! The Spirit team pushes a buggy up the final hill of the race course. Although the Spirit women only finished three secThe Pioneers team pushes a buggy up the first hill of the course. The womens team placed seventh in the overall comonds behind the winding time, strong competition from Fringe and PiKA made for a tight and exciting race. petition, missing the finals, falling below KDR and CIA's times by sixteen seconds.
Women's Buggy

---------------------------------------------------

WBRHMBi

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

for Fall 2000
Based on fall 2000 class standing:
le:_pDF r VDR. lth.e:tF L:g' ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccip:.R'2 8/D_g H^
Jh:_pDFccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccOheF.R'2 8/D_g H\
lp/opfpDeFccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccce.:eF.R'2 8/D_g Hk
TeU_FtDRt_p: ophDF RDe uDpf k Rcfc tp ?j /cfc veU_::_:U iR' ?2 L1T ophDF s_gg e eGte:.e. h:t_g 
H Rcfc tp /DpweFF R..Y.Dp/F RwwpD._:U tp wpggeUe .eR.g_:eFc
Use Co
station Process
irse Information Online (CIO) before registration week to :
checljt course prerequisites against your schedule 
check available course section
display sections maximum enrollments, waitlist size, day/time/ 
location, instructor
display sections reservations, course messages
check if there is a seat for youdisplays each section and its
CURRENT availability for you. 
OLR Start Times
.................................................6 a.m.
..........................................6:30 a.m.
................................................7 a.m.
..........................................7:30 a.m.
................................................8 a;m.
..........................................8:30 a.m.
......................................9 a.m.
........................................ 9:30a.m.
.........................................10 a.m.
........................................10:30 a.m.
........................................ 11:30 a.m.
................................................noon
........................................ 12:30 p.m.
..........................................1 p.m.
..........................................1:30 p.m.
..........................................2:30 p.m.
............................................. 3 p.m.
..........................................3:30 p.m.
...............................;...............4 p.m.
..........................................4:30 p.m.
Use Student Information Online (SIO) before registration week to :
 check your enrollment status for fall 2000
 check your primary department, class standing and maximum units 
to register
 check to see if youre on registration hold for fall 2000 
Contact your primary department if you are.
Use Online Registration (OLR) during registration week to :
 add and drop courses
 rank your waitlist entries
 check if there is a seat for youdisplays each section and its 
CURRENT availability for you. Dont waste time trying to add 
sections not available to you.
 communicate with your advisor or the OLR feedback.
Each registration day is divided into 30-minute intervals called OLR start times. The 
first interval begins at 6 a.m. and the last begins at 4:30 p.m. (You can find your start 
time on the chart below based on the last two digits of your student id number.) You 
may register any time after your start time on your registration day. There will be 
approximately 75 students assigned to each OLR start time.
If the last two digits 
of your student ED 
are between:
Your start 
timis:
19 .
14..
34.
24.
29.
.39 ..
49 ..
44..
59..
54..
74..
79..
84..
64..
69 ..
04..
94..
89.....
99 ,.............
09....;........

---------------------------------------------------

The Buzz Poets added a little punk rock to the wide variety of Carnival music performed.
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
With the appearance of the folk-rock band 
;iJ>trangefolk, the musical headliner for Carnival, came 
~an even stranger folk to Carnival: sunshine.
Last Saturday afternoon, the weather on the CFA 
lawn was perfect for an outdoor concert. This welcome 
forecast helped attract a diverse crowd to the event. 
There was a good turnout of CMU students, as well as 
other Pittsburgh residents, both young and old. And of 
course, with a jamming folk-rock band performing, the 
Phish and the Grateful Dead fans were in attendance. 
(By my tally of t-shirts, the Phishheads defeated the 
Deadheads, 8-5.)
The opening band, Meropoix, was an interesting 
choice. In addition to folk, this band from Michigan 
performed some kind of funk hybrid, as evidenced by 
their organ and synthesizer. Nevertheless, their stage
presence was pretty flat for the first two songs. No 
doubt about it, these pieces were definitely folk. But 
then the band yelled, Anyone out there in the mood to 
get a little funky? and brought out a horn section con
sisting of a trumpet and saxophone. This is where the 
jazzy funk started to kick in, reminiscent of Herbie 
Hancock or Chick Corea. The crowd of about 100 start
ed to get up and dance to their jamming beat.
While providing a good rhythm, they sometimes had 
a little difficulty switching off between instruments. 
There were times where they forgot if they were a jam 
band that should play in unison, or if they were a jazz 
band that should rattle off a series of solos. 
Meanwhile, the poor organist never really had a 
chance to make these songs funky.
Nevertheless, the biggest treat of their five-song, 
one-hour set was the last one. Someone in the crowd 
started yelling, 2001! 2001! This chant led to confu
sion from the rest of the audience. But once their next 
piece started, people forgot about the unusual chant.
Matthew Trentacoste/Photo Staff
Erik Glockler (left) played bass and sang while Reid Genauer (right) played the rhythm guitar and provided lead vocals*
Matthew Trentacoste/Photo Staff
Strangefolk was the headlining band for Carnival and played for an active crowd on the CFA lawn Saturday afternoon.
Then, about 12 minutes into the song, the horns blared 
the all-too-familiar theme from 2001: A Space Odyssey, 
much to the audiences delight and enlightenment.
A half-hour after Meropoix exited the temporary 
stage, Strangefolk of Burlington, Vermont took their 
spot on the center stage. By this point, the crowd had 
nearly doubled in size.
Like Meropoix, the first few songs in Strangefolks set 
were very straightforward, with their jamming used 
very sparsely. It became evident why they called them
selves Strangefolk. The ironic reason for their name is 
actually because they are so technical, more structured 
than Phish or the Grateful Dead.
Nonetheless, as their set continued, they did not hes
itate to jam out in the middle of their songs, including 
a rendition of Chasing Away that lasted about 20-25 
minutes. But that first two or three minutes of their 
songs  along with the last minute of them  still 
maintained that rigid song structure. This portion of 
their songs often sounded more like Neil Young than 
Jerry Garcia. This comparison is further aided by their 
down-to-earth, wholesome lyrics sung in unison, such 
as It's a good laugh, its a good song/It's a fine, fine
day. But unlike Neil Young, their singing sometimes 
carried little emotion, making some of them sound 
alike.
If you need an indication of the success of the show, 
it did not take long to find one. At its peak, there were 
about 300 people in the audience, with more people 6n 
their feet and dancing than not. They received th^' 
band graciously and forced an encore of Lines and 
Circles" at the end of their two and a half hour perfor
mance.
But perhaps the most symbolic indication of their 
success came as a by-product of the interesting stage 
setup. The temporary stage was built on the lawn iri 
front of the CFA building, such that the sidewalk con
necting Doherty Hall to Schenley Drive ran right;in 
front and parallel to the stage.
During Meropoixs performance, it was not uncom
mon to see pedestrians walking or biking on this siqewalk directly beneath the performers. But whjle 
Strangefolk was on stage, very few people dared;to 
attempt this, partially due to the fact that some of their 
dancing fans impeded any possible pathway through 
the area.
Buzz Poets bring their local Pittsburgh flavor to CMU crowd
by Andy Francis
Assistant Arts & Living Editor
Since Carnival is pretty much the only 
weekend of the year where CMU is the place 
to be in Pittsburgh, it seems fitting that the 
best bands in the Burgh should pay us a 
visit. Acts like The Clarks have headlined 
past Carnival shows, and this year the local 
rock tag team of Wade and the Buzz Poets 
was tapped to play the main stage on the
Carnival Midway. While both bands had 
their unique takes on guitar-driven power 
pop, there was no mistaking their distinct 
Pittsburgh sound.
Guitar-bass-drums trio Wade took the 
stage first, throwing out a mix of punchy, 
up-tempo punk songs and some curiously 
chosen covers. The Blue Oyster Cults 
Godzilla, the Violent Femmes Blister in 
the Sun, and Depeche Modes Personal 
Jesus all found their way into Wades set 
list, with the band giving each an extra
spoonful of distortion. Some of the choices 
may have seemed odd, but the band was 
able to fit the covers in nicely alongside 
originals like their recent single 
Trampoline.
Although all three members of the band 
contributed vocals, Wade was at their best 
when they let the instruments themselves do 
the talking since their harmonizing tended 
to be annoying the audience rather than 
amusing. Their brand of rock and roll never 
got too heavy, relying on velocity and 
melody more than powerful Black Sabbathstyle riffing. The real key to the bands 
sound, however, was their amazing drum
mer Doug Gilleylen, whose fasti intense 
work on his set kept even the bands weakest
efforts from becoming stale.
The five members of the Buzz Poets were 
up next, opening with a few WXDX-friendly 
numbers. While they shared Wades rock 
sensibilities, their songs were more grooveoriented and laid back. Press releases about 
the Buzz Poets are quick to point out the 
band members love of lots of musical styles, 
and indeed hints of reggae, hip-hop, and 
even disco snuck into the Buzz Poets songs. 
For the most part, though, the band stuck 
with straight-up three-chord guitar num
bers.
Like Wade, the Buzz Poets were bitten by 
the covers bug, breaking out some tunes by 
Blink-182, Marilyn Manson, and Wall of 
Voodoo. Generally these covers proved to be
a little less interesting than most of the Biizz 
Poets other songs  the band has a kndck' 
for catchy songwriting and does a pretty 
good job of incorporating different styles 
without making them sound extraneous.
Unfortunately, Fridays show dragged on 
for a little too long. After 20 songs or so, 
there really wasnt much new and interest
ing happening in the music, yet the Buzz 
Poets soldiered on.
Nevertheless, the majority of the concert 
was enjoyable, although rather poofly 
attended. Both Wade and the Buzz Pots 
are sturdy, hard-rocking bands and, while 
they may not crack Billboard anytime soon, ! 
they should both continue to win fans in the 
Steel City.
Carnival audience soaks in music from Strangefolk, Meropoix
Anthony DAurla/Photo taff

---------------------------------------------------

Fall 2000
Computer
Skills
Teaching
Positions
for Undergraduate 
Students
JEKLY & HYDE
NORTH OAKLAND
214 North Craig Street 
Furnished Efficiency Apts.
- Renovated - Air Conditioning
- Wall to Wall Carpeting - Secure Building
- Heat and Water Included - $485 and up
1 bedroom, furnished (from $560), unfurnished (heat and water included)
Mature/Graduate Students 
Parking Available
Days: 682-1194
Evenings: 731-0450
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE 
128 N. Craig Street 
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
Now offering to NEW PATIENTS 
Complementary FTRST VISIT !!
Berman Chiropractic has been servicing the CMU and PITT communities 
for the past 17 years.
So, now is your chance to try Chiropractic and see how we can help with your 
Health problems.
Please Call For An Appointment... today !!
687-1112
WE ACCEPT UC/BS, UI'MC, AON SELECT AND 700 OTHER INSURANCES
1VAL 2000:
Drama
Reviewer recaps Scotch n Sodas fairy tale productions
by Thaddeus Billman
Staffwriter
' Carnival is over and done with. There will be no 
more Buggy, no more Booth, and no more rides for 
another year. There will be no more princesses and no 
More peas. Whats that you say? You missed Once Upon 
a Mattress? Well, shame on you.
Perhaps you were fast asleep, perhaps you were 
(Jrunk, perhaps you just dont like peas. Whatever your 
Reason for missing this springs Scotch n Soda Carnival 
I production, Ive got a surprise for you: its back! No, 
iithey arent reuniting the cast for one final production; 
jmstead, I will recreate the play right here and now for 
 our reading pleasure in the privacy of your own
abode. So without further ado, Once Upon a Mattress: 
Abridged Edition....
It is the mid-fifteenth century and poor Prince 
Dauntless is without a bride. His mean old mommy, 
Queen Aggravain, insists that she approve any poten
tial bride of his and has already rejected every eligible 
girl from their kingdom and from all the neighboring 
ones. The law states that no one may marry until the 
prince does, leading to much dismay among the local 
people. Chris Anderson, playing Dauntless, and Cris 
Peterson, playing Aggravain, fill their parts with ade
quate skill.
Decked in fabulous costumes, the cast assembles. 
One is not likely to see finer garments again any time 
soon. They stand on a well-designed stage, nicely dec
orated. The only problem is that the movable scenery
WEfiY mtmsm NIGHT PM ^ *
1101MWMW f*WSS,+
Teach credit-bearing ^ 
basic computing skills class
Prerequisite skills include:
Excellent communication skills 
Experience with Mac & PC operating systems 
Experience with Mulberry, basic Unix, Word,
& Excel
if .; tpllEyEga Mwr.vcrCcRuapjRcl
(JOB#255) CSW Instructor
Computer Education/Computing Services
----------------------------------------------------------------I------------------I______________________________
walls squeak horribly as they are moved, leaving one 
wondering if the crew has'ever heard of oil.
But I digress; back to the action. Sir Harry, the 
biggest, strongest, bravest knight in all the land, sets 
out to bring back a suitable bride for Dauntless. The big 
bad queen doesnt want to let him go, but finally con
cedes to the pleadings ofDauntless. Everyone has just 
about given up hope when Harry at last returns with 
Princess Winnifred, or m6re accurately, she returns and 
he follows, for Winnifred was so anxious to arrive that 
she swam the moat in order to be the first princess 
there. Nikki McCrea plays the lead role well, standing 
as the highlight of the play.
In a loud voice, Winrfifred proceeds to explain that, 
she is incredibly shy, a jriew the audience is bound to 
doubt. The song is the first of many famous numbers 
from the musical score. Aggravain absolutely hates 
Winnifred, but her papers are in order, so the queen has 
no choice but to let her stay for a test. The test, 
Aggravain says as she plots, will look fair, and sound 
fair, but wont be fair. Winnifred is sure to fail, thus 
leaving Dauntless unmarried, as is his mothers appar
ent wish. The test she designs will be to put a single pea 
under a stack of 10 mattresses. If Winnifred is a true 
princess, she will surely feel the pea and not sleep a 
wink.
Meanwhile, Dauntless is getting to know young 
Winnifred, or Fred as she likes to be called, and is find
ing that he likes her very much as well. Hes enchanted 
by her strength, personality, and determination. In
short, she isnt like the other girls hes had' his eye on 
before. >w
In order to ensure that Winnifred fails the teP, 
Aggravain holds a grand ball to wear her out. It is h^f& 
that the audience hears what is arguably thk best sort] 
Im In Love With a Girl Named Fred, !as the llVfe 
orchestra gives another marvelous performance. Aftkf 
the ball, Fred is given a sleeping potion and by the tiifife 
she gets in bed, she can hardly keep hef eyes op&V, 
much to the Queens joy.
However, Winnifred is unable to sleep, of course j aftil 
she tells everyone so the next mornirig. She hafc pas&9 
the test, but Aggravain will not let Dauntless mafty 
even now, insisting that Fred is not good enough ftfr 
him. She goes on and on, until finally' Dauntless tells 
her to shut up, thus fulfilling an ancient prophe^ 
calling for the mouse to devour the hawk. King 
Sextimus, who had been mute the whole play, can nOVfr 
speak, and the Queen is mute instead. i 
The final scene finds members of the Court linveStPgating the stack of mattresses. They find that it was rfot 
the pea at all, but rather an axe, a saw," and various 
other hard items that kept the Princess awake, appar
ently the work of the minstrel, played effectively :8y 
Josh Horan. The curtain closes and all live happily, 
shmappily ever after.
Did I leave some things out? Of course! This is; tfie 
abridged version, after all. But hey, if you wanted to* see 
the whole thing you should have gone to the play in tfie 
first place.: 03
iAnthony DAuria/Photo StafflII
Princess Winnifred, whose role was performed by Nikki McCrea, was the lead character in Once Upon a Mattress.,
j
Anthony DAuria/Photo Staff
'Actor Chris Anderson plays Prince Dauntless and shows off his muscle as he tries to rescue Princess Winnifred.

---------------------------------------------------

Michael Ralsman/Photo Staffi
Eddie lift used his political science background as a springboard for his jokes.:
Certified Fast Play Class
FREE ROUNDS
Tlj1 T Jh f ^lls *s no1 a 2 for 1 offer! \V_^ J7 vjr V_^ JL_/ X V. paying partner is not rcquirri / 
AT: Cross Creek, Castle Shannon, Donegal Highlands, Hidden Valley, 
Lakeview (Resort), Lone Pine Country Club, Seven Springs (Resort), 
Tam O Shanter, Toftrees, The Wisp. ***Plus 26 More.
Free buckets of balls are also included at 7 area Certified Fast Plav Practice 
(Plus 2 mujjds at tiys PijctijcTce Par 3)
? SHIPPING 
#3 PACKAGING 
OVERNIGHT
PEACE CORPS world wise PuZzLe
about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526
Oakland 
414 S. Craig Street 
kSGCkfBB
. xr M2.NIVAL 2000: AROUND Ti-itr..
Comedy
New York stand-ups take center stage at Carnival 2000
by Beth Powell
Assistant Entertainment Editor
If you werent too tired from 
working on Booth all Wednesday 
night or going to Buggy practice, 
you may have stopped by the mainstage, under the tent, this past 
fhursday night to take in a couple 
of. the wide variety of entertain
ment acts that this years carnival 
had to offer. Two stand-up comedi
ans, who both call New York City 
home, appeared to help kick off 
Spring Carnival 2000 and get stu
dents ready for the fun weekend 
ahead.
, Eddie Ifft and Gary Greenberg 
performed for a crowd that filled 
the seats and most of the standing 
room. Despite a few disruptions, 
such as kids running around 
onstage, strange bird noises from a 
Random audience member, and the 
participation of some intoxicated 
individuals, the show was very suc
cessful.
;lIfft, a product of Generation X 
and notably one of the youngest 
stand-ups currently working the 
New York scene, got off to a good 
start Thursday night, with jokes 
about Carnegie Mellon and how 
computer-oriented the school is. He 
vras basically playing off of how 
hard we work and how much time 
we spend in front of a computer 
every day. This went on for about 
ten minutes before Ifft was inter
rupted by what he at first thought 
was Carnegie Mellons way of 
.pulling a fast one on him. A group, 
of kids suddenly decided to join 
him onstage, where they proceeded 
to run around yelling and 
mouthing back at him. Apparently, 
somebodys kids won too much 
candy playing the games at Booth 
a|l day and they had some extra 
energy that their parents didnt 
know how to deal with. After sever
al painful minutes of this, the kids 
were removed to the wonderful 
:world of carnival rides, and Ifft 
continued.
LOSE 20 POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS!
Famous U.S. Womens' Alpine Ski Team Diet
During the non-snow offseason the US Womens' Alpine Ski 
Team members used the "Ski Team" diet to lose 20 pounds in two 
weeks. That's right - 20 pounds in 14 days! The basis of the diet is 
chemical food action and was devised by a famous Colorado 
physician especially for the US Ski Team. Normal energy is 
maintained (very important) while reducing. You keep "full" - no 
starvation - because the diet is designed that way. It's a diet that is 
easy to follow whether you work, travel or stay at home. (For men 
too!)
This is, honestly, a fantastically succesful diet. If it weren't, 
the Us Womens' Alpine Ski Team wouldn't be permitted to use it! 
Right? So> give yourself the same break the US Ski team gets. Lose' 
weight the scientific, proven way. Even if you've tried all the other 
diets, you owe it to yourself to try the US Womens' Alpine Ski Team 
Diet. That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. 
Order today! Tear this out as a reminder.
Send only S8.95 - add . 50 cents RUSH service to: 
MIDWEST ASSOCIATES, 3318 S. Glenstone, Suite 308, Springfield, 
MO 65804. Don't order unless you expect to lose 20 pounds in two 
weeks! 3ecause that's what the Ski Tea Diet wiii do. _
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
MAIL BOXES ETC.'
dPEw wRgaa gbcg pl %p.rP 1RcbEyg ngw rPc ycrcb pl rPc 9yg cRuEbc rPgr ngw agrcb yp7.cbcv mj %ugEM spb g rERc rPEw rcbbErpbj lcaa .vcb rPc bpjga %ugEwP b.acbw pl 'cb. gv rPc ,papRmEgM
1.
2.
TM
&M
0gRc pl rPc &FBBBCREacCap Rp.rgE wjwrcR wrbcryPE rPc acrP pl ncwrcb %p.rP 1RcbEyg lbpR -ccJ.cag rp dEcbbg vca s.cpM
dPc gRc pl rPc pycg rp rPc ncwr pl rPEw yp.rbjM
1bEy.ar.bga ubpv.yrwF ypllccF lEwPF wPbERugv ucrbpac.R gbc gaa wEElEygr////lbpRrPEw yp.rbjM
dPc bcgr yEbyac yEby.RwybEmE rPc cgbrPow w.blgycM
His show continued with stories 
about his life, namely run-ins with 
the police. For example, once he 
was driving with a friend and he 
had a little too much to drink. He 
ended up hanging parts of his 
naked body out the car window and 
this led to a brief stay in jail. Of 
course, you might think that that 
story is funny enough as is, but 
theres more. As the story goes, Ifft 
was required to attend Alcoholics 
Anonymous meetings.
Normally, this wouldnt really 
seem funny, but poor Ifft sat there 
and listened to all the other people 
talk about alcohol had ruined their 
lives and when it was his turn, all 
he could say was that alcohol had 
been present at all of the best times 
in his life. Add the delivery by Ifft 
himself and that is one hilarious 
story. Not only that, but it just 
might actually be true. It has been 
said that his humor is based on the 
crazy stuff hes pulled throughout 
his life.
Besides making people feel good 
using his comedy act, Ifft also 
makes people feel good outside of 
work. Apparently his roommates 
mother likes to call early in' the 
afternoon when she knows her son 
wont be home, but that Ifft will. It 
makes her feel better about her son 
knowing that somebody elses son 
is still in bed at 1 pm almost every
day while her son is off working at 
his high-powered job. Theres noth
ing like a comedian who makes 
people feel good twenty-four hours 
a day whether hes at work or not.
After Ifft finished sharing his life 
stories, Gary Greenberg, who has 
written and published two books 
and worked for Comedy Central, 
was up. He got off to a slow start, 
but really picked things up by the 
end. He had lots of props at his dis
posal including some really inter
esting pants and an audiotape from 
Playboy on how to pick up beautiful 
women. He told stories about life in 
the village in New York City. For 
example, he actually saw a gay cou
ple having sex in a public stairwell.
PACKING
SUPPLTES
INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 90 nations around the 
world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries. 
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce 
the name of the country darkened on the map at the right.
ROHIBTR = ROROSIUF MH CaOTshn .r PROHIB
He also claimed that the way 
Banana Republic employees glide 
around the store suggested that 
they must be gay. Although the gay 
jokes were there, they didnt get too 
mean or nasty, as Greenberg prides 
himself on keeping his act clean.
Greenberg also commented on 
,how dumb people who work in fastfood places must be. To prove his 
point, he brought out a Roy Rogers 
sandwich wrapper. On the wrap
per, there is actually a circle printed
with the words, place sandwich 
here, printed inside it. How many 
people do you know who couldnt 
figure out how to wrap a sandwich 
without directions printed on the 
wrapper or some other outside 
help? He also mentioned that there 
are pictures of horses printed on 
some hamburger wrappers and this 
would be the equivalent of printing 
cats on Chinese take-out.
Both comedians involved the 
Midway audience, which was more
Gary Greenberg had the audience laughing out loud with a series of props.
than happy to take part, as much as 
possible, but Ifft seemed to be the 
favorite among the students in 
attendance.
Jill Palermo, a sophomore major
ing in art said, I liked the first one 
because it was more college 
humor.
Stacey Besford, a sophomore 
business major, agreed, saying that 
the first one was brilliant.
What was the main difference 
between the two comics? Ifft made
jokes about himself and the stupid 
things that hes done and the crazy 
situations hes gotten himself into. 
Meanwhile, Greenbergs act was 
based on the strange things and 
experiences in crazy life, even if-it 
was to pick-up on the shortcomings 
of others. Geenberg presented the 
clean act that the older generation 
probabLy appreciated more and Ifft 
presented the comedy that the col
lege-aged generation wanted to 
hear.
CHALLENGING PROGRAMMING 
POSITIONS IN BRAIN IMAGING
University of Pittsburgh neuropsychology 
group seeks strong C/C++ and/or Java 
programmer to develop state-of-the-art 
brain imaging tools. Positions involve user 
Interface, statistical, image processing and 
systems programming in Unix environment.
Contact Eugene Tseytlin at (412) 624-7070 
tseytlin@pltt.edu
CERTIFIED FAST PLAY CONCEPTS INC.nnnMwucyupbrMypRylu
To Register by Phone ('all:
854-GOLF
WE SHIP 
ANYTHING, 
ANYWHERE
DOMESTIC OR INTERNATIONAL

---------------------------------------------------

On The New Economy
The Laily School at Rensselaer. 
Business savvy for a world gone digital
The MBA@Rensselaer
Want 10 take your academic performance to a new high? Ger the study resources you need at 
WebCT.com. the e-learning hub. Whether you're looking (or study aids and research materials, or 
want ro discuss your favorite academic subject with students and faculty around the world. 
WebCT.com is the place to make it happen. It's your 
education Take control. Visit www webct.com/grab$4VebCT.com
GETTING SMARTER ALL THE TIME.
Win $150,000 in
Garage.coms Ultimate Student 
Business Plan Competition
PLANedu.
Got a great business idea? We want to hear 
it. Enter your business plan in Garage.com's 
PLANedu competition. Who's eligible? Full
time students from any accredited U.S. 
college a university. The top five business 
plans win be piesented to a distinguished 
panel of judges at our final event in 
Silicon V&l!ey in May. The winning team V 
walks away with 150 big ones.
Fa complete contest details and to 
enter, chock us out at
http://www.garage.com/PLANedu
Grant Tlmrnton $
CharlesSchwab
STUDENT BUSINESS PISH COMPETITION
 I rcw.M by Apn 2. XOO. ro 'it*t .rjn f con PTf 'Aa! d* iwj* US iBjtvscr cUertrrjta naliS cotone or v'ixl croh&'w
LALLY
ra SCHOOL
AT RENSSELAER
Management
and technology.
Application
and innovation
why not change the world?*
Prru+agaajwyPppaMbuEMcv. OfSM3GkMkOSk

---------------------------------------------------

Latin music ignites main stage despite poor attendance
\ by Christopher May
; Forum Editor
Carnival is Booth, Buggy, rides, candy, and 
fierce Latin beats. Last Friday on the Midway 
J main stage, CMU was treated to the salsa stylings 
| of Orquesta Tropical and responded with a sparse 
' crowd.
. In preparation for the International Festival on 
j Latin America and the Caribbean, at 3 pm 
Orquesta Tropical, a ten-person salsa band, 
j began to play to a nearly empty house, and they 
continued for two hours while the audience 
j rotated in and out of the tent as if they were takijng shifts.
sS-Brass and percussion combined with the voices 
tojfthe two lead singers to produce melodies that 
made it easy to get up and dance. The performers 
merengued like mad, and even busted out maraccas. Despite this energy from the band, the crowd 
[remained uncharged.
Perhaps this is because many of the members of 
the crowd were children under five. Few students 
attended. The adults from the community were 
not very enthusiastic and many chatted while the 
performers were singing. Toward the middle of 
the performance the crowd showed some life. A 
few couples got up to dance, but on the whole, 
the few people who showed up seemed to view 
the tent as a place to sit and take a rest, rather 
than experience some toe-tapping music.
Admittedly, the performance was somewhat 
stale. Many of the tunes were similar, and to a 
person passively sitting in the tent, the perfor
mance could be a bit dull. Even so, the 
merengues were definitely at least decent. 
Merengue is the national music of the Dominican 
Republic, and is usually played with a big band. 
Merengue is one of the hottest forms of world 
music today.
The point of the music was to get into the beat, 
- get up and dance, and just have a good time, 
somewhat similar to the general idea of Carnival.
Salsa music is a great way to get a party started 
for those of us who like to get up and dance, but 
unfortunately perhaps a college campus was not 
the right setting for this kind of music.
As a first-year student, I was not certain what 
to expect from Carnival, though I suspected that 
the event would be poorly attended since this was 
CMU and students would be in their rooms play
ing Quake. I had hoped that during Carnival 
weekend, an excitement would cause otherwise 
boring students to get out and enjoy themselves, 
but at least Friday it seemed that this was not the 
case.
Nonetheless, the publicity for the event was 
poor and overshadowed by other musical events. 
This reason may have contributed to the low 
turnout. But regardless, it was an opportunity to 
get down that was missed by many students.
Orquesta Tropicals next Pittsburgh performance 
is at the Club Caf on the South Side on Wednesday 
at 9 pm.The horn section of Orquesta Tropical was key in jazzing up the Main Stage.
Acapella groups entertain reviewer
by Beth Powell
Assistant Entertainment Editor
From Jars of Clay to Paula Cole to Garbage to Dave 
Matthews Band and even the Gummi Bears theme, the 
Acapella Monkey concert rocked the main stage tent 
Saturday afternoon to an almost full house. The col
laborative effort featured two of Carnegie Mellons 
own groups, the Originals and the Sound Bytes, as well 
as the Royal Pitches from the University of Buffalo in 
New York. All three are student-run acapella groups.
The Originals started the show off with their own 
version of As Long As You Love Me, but basically the 
song should have been titled, As Long As You Pass 
Me. Adrian Perez, a junior computer science major, 
introduced the group saying, Were a bunch of engi
neers and we like singing.
The group went on to sing Everybody Knows (That 
Its All Right) and Take My World Apart. If you 
missed the show then you missed the last on-campus 
performance of The Masochism Tango by Tom 
Lehrer. Perez, who soloed on the song, said, Its that 
kind of song that people like more the first time they 
see it, less after the twentieth. The song, which was 
first introduced at last years Carnival, will still be used 
to end sets when the group plays off-campus, especial
ly high schools and other colleges, because its a lot of 
fun to perform.
The next group to take the stage was the Royal 
Pitches, who drove down for the day. The 13-member 
female group performed a wide variety of songs 
including Walk Like an Egyptian, Kiss Me, Broken 
Glass, and When I Grow Up. The group does all of 
its own arranging and has recorded two CDs, Lifes a
Pitch and quitcherpitchin. They mostly perform around 
the Buffalo area, and although this was their first time 
performing at Carnegie Mellon, they have been travel
ing to Pittsburgh for the last three years to perform at 
the University of Pittsburgh.
We pride ourselves on putting on an entire show, 
not just standing and singing, said Dana Goldstein, a 
senior music education major at Buffalo, founder, and 
one of four original members of the group, which has 
existed since 1997. Their energy and enthusiasm was. 
certainly apparent to the audience judging by the 
applause they received.
To round out the concert, another Carnegie Mellon 
group and organizer of the fourth annual carnival con
cert, The Sound Bytes, took the stage. This co-ed group 
started off with My Prerogative and then gave the 
audience a wide variety of selections from La Tsla 
Bonita to Rock the Casbah and Stay to In the 
Jungle. To end their part of the program, the group 
sang the theme song from the cartoon show The 
Gummi Bears. As Russ Kaplan, a senior drama direct
ing major, put it when he introduced the song, its the 
closest thing we have to a tradition. The audience did
nt seem to mind the journey back into the world o,f 
afternoon cartoons, as they joined in to sing the last 
chorus with the group.
All in all, Acapella Monkey was very entertaining. 
David Blackwood, a sophomore majoring in industrial 
design said, I enjoyed it a lot. It was a fun, eclectic 
show. With the variety of voices and musical styles 
presented throughout the concert, there was some:- 
thing for everyone. If you missed the concert this year, 
dont worry, there are already plans to continue this 
annual concert for a fifth year at next years Carnival. 
Dont miss out on a great afternoon of entertainment 
again!
Pittsburgh, of course.
More specifically, they look to 
Union Switch & Signal  a world 
leader in the development of 
technological solutions for railroad 
and rail transit control, just as it was 
more than a century ago when 
George Westinghouse founded the 
company here in Pittsburgh.
Just because our focus hasn't 
changed substantially in more than a 
hundred years doesn't mean the work
we're doing hasn't. Today, our 
engineers and technicians are 
developing computerized control 
systems using the C++ language, 
leading-edge products featuring 
embedded microprocessor software, 
and the next generation of 
electronic and electro-mechanical 
components for train-control 
applications worldwide.
Whether it's rapid transit control 
in Seoul or Shanghai, a rail network 
management system in the United 
Kingdom, a digital classification yard
control system in China, or 
communications-based train control 
in the United States, millions of 
people around the world depend on 
Union Switch & Signal technology to 
meet their rail transportation needs 
every day.
Want to know more? Access our 
web site at www.switch.com and 
learn how Union Switch & Signal is 
developing better systems to transport 
the people and products of the world 
by rail.
www.switch.com
[UNION SWITCH & SIGNAL I [Si
Union Switch & Signal Inc, an Ansaldo Signal company 
1000 Technology Drive, Pittsburgh, PA 15219  645 Russell Street Batesburg, SC 29006 
IRI FINMECCANICA GROUP
Matthew Trentacoste/Junior Photo Staff
DT.questa Tropicals powerful bongo drum beat could be heard and felt throughout the Midway Friday afternoon.
Side stage makes noteworthy return
by Greg Nofi
jEntertainment Editor
mm
One of the great aspects of 
Carnival 2000 was that an integral 
part of Midway was resurrected: the 
side stage. This stage was key for 
smaller, local bands  some of them 
made up of CMU students  that 
couldnt fit into the packed schedule 
of the Main Stage. In addition, the 
side stage was conveniently located 
near the entrance, so that people 
ambling in could hear some live 
music immediately. On Saturday 
night, as all the high school kids took 
over Midway, the most notable of 
tEl local bands on the side stage per
formed.
The opener for their act was a 
rockabilly band called El Diablo. 
Perhaps this is an understatement 
because these guys simply oozed 
rbckabilly music with every aspect of 
their performance. For starters, 
three of their five members wielded 
Mjverful, classic electric guitars. 
They were all decked out in tight 
black t-shirts and jeans and had 
slicked-back hair.
; Their set list featured your typical 
fockabilly played to a boogie beat. If 
yonre unfamiliar with this genre, 
think of old rockers, like Chuck Berry 
pr Jerry Lee Lewis. Another major
influence is country-rocker Johnny 
Cash, of whom El Diablo played sev
eral covers. And it wouldnt be rocka
billy without songs about drinking, 
fighting, and unfaithful girlfriends.
Unlike some other revival bands 
playing this style, such as The 
Amazing Royal Crowns, El Diablos 
songs ran longer than a minute and a 
half at a time without slowing down 
the pace of the song. The problem 
with their set was a lack of raw ener
gy that a rockabilly show requires. 
This was due to the venue and the 
resulting lack of chemistry. It is sim
ply hard to sustain an audience 
when youre situated in the middle 
of Midway and playing next to a 
rotating fire truck ride with an 
annoying fake siren.
Shortly after El Diablo ended, 
Ritual Space Travel Agency came on. 
When I first heard, their name, I 
thought they were either a nerdypop-rock band or a goofy ska band. 
But their second-place finish in the 
last-ever, legendary Graffiti Rock 
Challenge probably means that 
theyre straight rockers.
When they first took the stage, it 
actually almost did seem like they 
were a ska band. They started out 
with a light two-tone guitar beat 
with a saxophone accompaniment. 
The ska sound was brief, however. 
No less than five seconds later did
they demonstrate their real musical 
influence: metal. Oh wait, I forgot 
about their jazz influence. And was 
it mentioned that the songs with 
their keyboardist made their sound 
funky?
To be honest, its very difficult to 
describe their blend of music. There 
were times where it seemed like the 
two guitars and the saxophone were 
fighting it out for attention. That is, 
the guitars would be pounding out 
some power metal riffs while the 
saxophonist would blurt out long 
strings of off-beat, off-key chords.
But the thing is, amidst all this 
chaos, there was a catchy rhythm. In 
fact, the band gradually accumulat
ed a crowd of about three dozen 
people. In addition to being 
intrigued, many of them were also 
entertained by the music. Long, 
involved songs like the semi-political 
Follow the Money and the jazzy 
Agatha Says had the audience toe 
tapping. But the beat changes rapid
ly and you would find yourself 
changing the beat of your tapping 
foot several times a minute. Thats 
because their songs had more hooks 
than a fleet of pirates.
All in all, the Ritual Space Travel 
Agency put on a great act. Even if 
you do not like metal or quirky jazz, 
youll find that this bands songs are 
compact enough to be mesmerizing.
Ritual Space Travel Agency rocked the stage with an intriguing blend of guitars and saxophone.
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Spirit Buggy races towards the finish line during the Friday preliminaries. 
Bradley Fearn/Contribxiting Editor
The entrance to midway glows during opening night of Carnival.\uri Miller/Fhoto Staff
Della ppsllnn's Ancient Egypt booth theme bears a resemblance to the very famous Sphinx.
Cassandra Knight/Contributing Editor
;! . -Sfringe, at the awards ceremony, accepts their second place award for Buggy.
Brian Smith/Contributing Editor
A nimble mobol traverses the course In search of the elusive prize money.
Matt Brim/Special Projects Manager
1001 Nights lights ii|> the sky with the King of Fire providing endless hours of fun and excitement for all carnival goers
l.isette Mlller-Dixon/Contributing Fditor
Kappa Kappa Gamma's Booth, Ancient Mayan Rums, won a second place trophy.
Kris Audreassen/Contributing Editor
Ritual Space Agency rocks out as they take over the side stage and play excellent carnival rhythm.
Bcnham Farahpour/Contributing Editor
r