Volume 92, Issue 6Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 19066 October 1997
Inside
................L16
..................15
...................L6
.................Lll
Forum.....................6
Sports................................................................13
Forum
TV wastes time 
 see page 7
Sports
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
Football team blows game 
 see page 16
Diversions
Journey to Mars 
 see page Lll
WRCT provides Senate forum
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Whats wrong with Student 
Senate? Ever wanted to answer 
that question, but were too busy 
or intimidated to go to a Senate 
meeting? In order to encourage 
interaction between student 
senators and the student body, 
Student Senate has reinstated 
Student Senate Hour, a weekly 
radio show aired on WRCT. The 
station broadcasted Senates 
third show of the semester last 
Tuesday. The show ran once be
fore in 1993.
Executive committee members 
mediated the talk show, which 
has initiated conversations about  
campus related issues such as 
the cancellation of classes in re
membrance of Martin Luther 
King, Jr. and parking problems.
It was kind of like [a student 
senate meeting], except on air 
and less formal, said executive 
committee member Mike 
Szudarek, a senior social and 
decision sciences major. We 
tried get people to call in, to stir 
up debate.
The resurrection of GSAs pro
posal to separate from Student 
Senate, which will be proposed for 
a third time at Thursdays Senate 
meeting, is this weeks topic for 
the show. Senate members hope 
to provide ample venues for dis
cussion of the proposal before the 
vote; the resolution was rejected 
last semester by one vote mainly 
because senators did not fully un
derstand what GSAs separation 
from Student Senate entailed, said 
Student Body President Bryon 
Krug, a senior electrical and com
puter engineering major.
[Krug] has done a good job of 
gettinghis name out and Senate is 
often overshadowed by him, said 
Szudarek. ...I want Student Sen
ate to shine on its own. Its not a 
slam against Bryon, but its time 
to push Senate into the spotlight.
Szudarek said he made a recom
mendation to Senate that Krug 
not be invited to participate in the 
show. Although Krug along with 
other officers will sit in on 
Tuesdays broadcast, Student Gov
ernment executive officers were 
not invited to sit in on the show in 
an attempt to separate Student 
Senate from Student Government.
I like to think that most 
people on Student Government 
care more about results than 
who gets credit, said Krug. I 
think we get more done by work
ing together... than by creating 
imaginary boundaries.... 
If the proposal to split GSA 
from Student Senate passes, 
then there will be a stronger 
need to distinguish Senate 
as its own identity, accord
ing to Student Senate Chair 
Will Toransson, a junior 
physics major. Then Stu
dent Senate will really be 
independent of Student Gov
ernment, he said.
The radio show also opens 
Senate issues up to a different 
audience, said Szudarek. I 
dont know how many people 
are actually listening [to the 
show], and WRCTs news re
lated shows dont generally 
have a large following, but if it 
helps at least one person get 
involved, then its worth it, 
he said.
Future topics planned for 
the show include online reg
istration and the upcoming 
Senate elections.
! OUR GOAL
THE TARTAN
New cluster opens in CFA
By RYAN SCHILLING
ITartan Assistant News Editor
I Eat, drink, and be merry, said 
. President Jared Cohon, quoting 
his favorite group, the Dave 
Matthews Band, and closing the 
official unveiling of the ne w CFA 
^Multimedia Cluster, held last 
^Tuesday on the third floor of CFA. 
$ Cohon, along with Computing
- Services administrators and per
sonnel introduced the new up. grades in the CFA cluster, de
scribed by Hills as the culmina
tion of two years of work between 
: all five schools of CFA and Com
puting Services.
I The project was a continuation 
} of the master plan to upgrade all 
Ithe clusters on campus, which 
} began last year with the renova
tion of the Baker Hall cluster.
: The new cluster, located in the 
tsame place as the one it replaced, 
[ has expanded in size due to space 
i donations.
? However, the Art Department 
has gained more than it lost. They 
now have access to a state-of-theart facility and are already benefit; |ng from the use of the ten newly 
^'installed Silicon Graphics Octane 
Workstations. The SGIs will be used
by students for 3D and motion 
modelling and animation as well 
as behavior scripting and video 
editing. Silicon Graphics comput
ers are used in Hollywood to make 
movie special effects. Industrial 
Light and Magics pet answer lately 
when asked, What machines do 
you use? has been, Anything 
made by SGI. The spring semes. ter will have the new cluster being 
reserved for nearly 40 hours dur
ing the school week.
In the same room as the SGIs 
are PCs with new Intel Pentium
II processors. In addition to art 
classes utilizing the clusters, 
music, architecture, and drama 
classes are also being held there.
The Macintosh room was also 
upgraded. There are 18 Power 
Macs in the clusters, eight of 
which were upgraded from 7100s 
to 7600s. More important than 
that are the peripherals that stu3
Lisette Miiler-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
The new cluster in CFA features state-of-the-art multimedia machines.
Pro-life advocates lined up along Fifth Avenue last Sunday for the Life Chain demonstration which began on Pitt campus.
Senate proposes 
self-ruling GSA
United Way campaign benefits
By DANIEL ARP of non-profit organizations across the their pledge forms. This includes smaller
Tartan Acting News Editor country, including local groups such as non-profits not directly benefited by genThree Rivers Youth, Pittsburgh Action eral United Way funds, such as the I 
* United Way, whose annual CMU Against Rape, Pittsburgh AIDS Task Have a Dream Foundation based in 
:-fundraising campaign kicks offthis MonForce, and the Vocational RehabilitaGSIA.
day and runs until next Friday, will try tion Center. Money is divided up among We at Carnegie Mellon seek regional 
}______________;_________________________________________________________________ individuals, corporations, and
\ Time and attention are some of the scarcest 
I resources on campus, so reminding people in a 
I simple and effective way once a year is a con| venience.
_______ Mark Kamlet, dean of the Heinz School
1  1'ni'ii~contributions throughout the
week, and University faculty and
to beat the all-time University record these organizations according to United staff have received pledge forms with 
[ set last year when CMU raised over Ways assessment of their need. their monthly paychecks.
,$119,000, almost $20,000 more than the Donors may also choose to designate In addition, volunteers will be serving 
f previous year. their contributions to any accredited nonfresh popcorn daily in Hamburg Hall, in
\ ; United Way benefits a diverse group profit organization by writing it in on return for either a pledge form or one
foundations to contribute to us, 
he said. The United Way cam
paign at Carnegie Mellon is one 
way that we signal to them that 
we, in turn, contribute as well to 
the regions needs.
A thermometer display has 
been placed outside Warner Hall 
and will be used to keep track of
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor
For the third time in the last two 
semesters, Student Senate will vote on a 
plan to redefine the role of graduate 
students in Senate. The plan, similar to 
the one proposed last semester, will make 
the Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) a 
separate governing body with 
its own financial resources and 
bylaws. Last semester, the 
proposal was only one vote shy 
of being passed. If passed at 
this Thursdays Senate meet
ing, GSA will become the offi
cial representative of gradu
ate students, and Senate will 
represent only undergradu
ates. Activities Fee allocation 
will become the joint responsibility of 
GSA and Senate. Both branches will op
erate under one constitution.
Graduate student representation is 
the issue that just wont die. Since last 
summer (1996), GSA and Student Gov
ernment have been discussing ways to 
improve this representation.... I think 
the proposal will be a very effective
change, said Bryon Krug, student body 
president and senior ECE major.
A proposal was created by a commit
tee of graduates and undergraduates 
last semester after a problem was recog
nized with inadequate graduate student 
representation. The proposal was not 
voted in by Senate primarily because 
Senators were given insufficient infor
mation about the proposal. This semes
ter, John Muir (a senior SDS major), 
Will Torraason (a junior physics major), 
and Krug explained the proposal to sena
tors at individual committee meetings. 
According to Krug, the small group dis
cussions allowed individual senators to 
raise objections and ask questions that 
Please see GSA, page 3
Graduate student repre
sentation is the issue that 
just wont die.
 Bryon Krug 
student body president
local non-profits
dollar, both of which go to the United 
Way.
Time and attention are some of the 
scarcest resources on campus, so re
minding people in a simple and effective 
way once a year is a convenience, said 
Mark Kamlet, dean of the Heinz School 
and the Universitys campaign coordi
nator.
Last year, [CMU] had been identified 
by the United Way as one of the organi
zations that they wanted to make a 
special effort to increase giving. And we 
rose to the challenge, said Kamlet.
Part of the reason for United Ways 
recent push for an increase in Univer
sity fundraising has been the downsizing 
of Pittsburgh big businesses like 
Westinghouse. In years past, United Way 
has relied on such businesses for sizable 
contributions. In the crunch, they have 
had to rely more on help from other 
Please see UNITED WAY, page 3
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff
The thermometer outside Warner Hall will 
be updated to keep track of contributions.

---------------------------------------------------

Volu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSd
WorldCom makes hostile 
bid for MCI Corporation
NEW YORK ( AP)  WorldCom Inc. 
made a hostile $29.4 billion offer to 
buy MCI Communications Corp. 
Wednesday morning, a bold attempt 
to become a giant in long-distance tele
phone and Internet service and break 
up British Telecoms deal to buy MCI.
The WorldCom bid, if successful, 
would be the largest merger in corpo
rate history.
WorldComs offer takes advantage 
of recent troubles between British 
Telecom and MCI over projected losses 
in MCIs local phone business. BT in 
August said it would pay significantly 
less for MCI.
WorldCom, the nations fourth-largestlong-distance company, has already 
been on a buying binge to increase its 
business of providing Internet service. 
In the last month, it struck a deal to 
acquire CompuServe Corp. and divide 
it with America Online.
The combination of WorldCom and 
MCI, already the nations second larg
est phone company, would not eclipse 
No. 1 AT&T.
WorldCom is a distant fourth in the 
long-distance market. The company pre
dominantly serves corporate customers.
WorldCom said its offer would be 
better for MCI than British Tel ecoms
because it already has built an ex
tensive local phone network in the 
United States.
BT and MCI are both great compa
nies in their own rights, but the fit just 
isnt right, WorldCom president and 
chief executive Bernard J. Ebbers said.
Asked about the chances of complet
ing the acquisition despite the exist
ing BT deal, Ebbers said, Were going 
to see this thing through.
BT in late August cut its purchase 
price for MCI by 20 percent after MCI 
projected its local phone business would 
lose $800 million this year trying to 
grab market share from the Baby Bells.
WorldCom is offering $41.50 worth 
of its stock for each MCI share. British 
Telecoms revised deal is for a combi
nation of BT stock and cash currently 
worth about $34.15 a share, valuing 
MCI at $24 billion.
British Telecom and MCI had al
ready cleared all regulatory hurdles 
for their merger, which was first an
nounced in November. However, 
shareholders of both companies have 
yet to approve the revised terms.
MCI declined to comment on 
WorldCom-s bid, but said it wouldhave 
a statement later in the day. British 
Telecom also declined to comment.
courtesy of Reuters
Bernard Ebbers, CEO of WorldCom Inc., announced that WorldCom has made a bid 
for MCI Communications during a news conference in New York on October 1.
Fraternity pledge 
dies from alcohol
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP)  A fresh
man found unconscious amid vomit and 
empty liquor bottles at a Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology fraternity has 
died of alcohol poisoning. Scott Krueger, 
18, of Orchard Park, N.Y., died late 
Monday, three days after the fraternity 
pledge was discovered in his basement 
room at the Phi Gamma Delta house.
His parents said his blood-alcohol level 
had reached .410 percent  five times 
the legal limit for drivers in Massachu
setts. Authorities say that means he 
consumed about 16 drinks. The medical 
examiner said Tuesday that Krueger 
died of an alcohol overdose.
It was at least the second such death 
at an American university this semes
ter. In August, a Louisiana State Uni
versity fraternity pledge died at a hospi
tal after a night of drinking.
A clean-cut three-letter athlete who 
graduated in the top 10 of the 325 stu
dents in his high school class, Krueger 
had attended a party at the fraternity 
earlier that night where he was paired 
off with a big brother, and where alco
hol was served, school officials said.
Police have begun a criminal investi
gation, and licensing authorities in Bos
ton, where the fraternity is located, have 
charged it with serving alcohol to mi
nors, allowing an overdose of alcohol, 
and other violations. The drinking age 
in all states is 21. MIT has also sus
pended Phi Gamma Delta from partici
pating in campus social activities.
Students said Phi Gamma Delta pro
moted an image of itself as MITs Ani
mal House fraternity. Several said they 
had been offered beer there during the 
freshman summer rush week, despite 
university regulations banning alcohol 
at the event. Officers of the MIT chapter 
and the fraternitys national headquar
ters declined to comment.
MITs other fraternities and its dormitory 
council have agreed to ban alcohol indefi
nitely, and the school is sending letters to 
students, holding seminars and asking resi
dent advisors to counsel freshmen.
Jon Tong, 21, an MIT senior, said 
the heightened awareness wont last 
long. Two years down the road, I 
question whether people will remem
ber this incident, he said. My per
sonal opinion is that things will just 
continue as they were.
Sleeping on the job...
courtesy of Reuters
A 19-day-old male baby panda lies prone in its incubator, waiting to be weighed 
and nourished, in a breeding center in Chinas southwestern province of Chengdu.
Researchers find 
new cold remedy
TORONTO (AP)The next best thing 
to a cure for the common cold is on the 
way: a medicine that helps you feel only 
half as rotten as you ordinarily would 
when the sniffles do strike. Researchers 
on Tuesday described the successful 
human testing of the first medicine that 
eases cold symptoms by attacking the 
cold virus itself.
Its still several years away from the 
drugstore, cautioned Dr. Ronald B. 
Turner, who said he could not be more 
specific. A genetically engineered medi
cine called ICAM-1 clearly seems to make 
colds less severe if sprayed into the nose 
around the time of infection.
Standard cold remedies try to tone 
down the bodys reaction to the cold 
virus rather than thwart the germ itself. 
Antiviral approaches have been tried 
before, but they did not work.
One obstacle to finding an effective 
medicine is that so many different bugs 
cause colds. The most common by far is 
the rhinovirus, which accounts for about 
40 percent of them. But there are more 
than 100 different strains of rhinovirus.
A few years ago, scientists learned 
how almost all the rhinoviruses get
into the body. They attach themselves 
to a particular protein on the cells of 
the nasal lining. Scientists call this 
protein intracellular adhesion mol
ecule-1, or ICAM-1.
Train sets speed 
record in Japan
TOKYO (AP)An experimental Japa
nese train set a world speed record Fri
day, reaching 279.6 mph on a test track 
in central Japan, railroad officials said.
The three-car MLX01 beat the record 
for a manned, magnetically levitated 
train set June 1993 by Transrapid, a 
similar manned train in Germany, by .6 
mph, said Nami Kobayashi, a spokes
woman for railway company JR Tokai.
The train, which doesnt touch the 
track when powerful magnetic fields al
low it to levitate, carried 16 researchers 
on the test track in Yamanashi prefec
ture (state) southwest of Tokyo. The 
train was developed by JR Tokai and the 
Railway Technical Research Institute.
Researchers hope the train will reach a 
velocity of 341 mph by next spring, which 
would surpass the 1979 world record of 
320.5 mph reached by an unmanned ve
hicle at a test facility in Miyazaki prefec
ture, southwestern Japan.
Museum buys complete Tyrannosaurus rex skeleton at New York auction
NEW YORK (AP)A Chicago 
museum paid nearly $8.4 mil
lion Friday for a 65-million-year 
old dinosaur skeleton  the most 
complete Tyrannosaurus rex 
ever recovered.
The virtually complete 50-footlong skeleton  named Sue  
was sold to the Field Museum of 
Natural History in Chicago, 
where it will go on exhibit in the 
year 2000.
Bidding at Sothebys auction 
house started at $500,000 before 
reaching the selling price of 
$8,362,500, minutes after the 
morning sale began. Sothebys
officials expected the fossil to sell 
for more than $1 million, though 
no pre-sale estimate was set.
Among the donors who helped 
buy Sue are McDonalds and Walt 
Disney World Resorts. Both com
panies will get replicas of the 
original for display in Florida and 
for a tour of the country.
This dinosaur is a world trea
sure, something so irreplaceable, 
David Redden, executive vice 
president of Sothebys, said be
fore the sale.
We have never sold anything 
of this importance, and nobody 
else has either.
The skeleton includes a tooth 
fragment from a rival T-rex em
bedded in a rib, and a gouge on 
the side of her skull, a wound 
that may have caused her death. 
Her lower left jaw is crushed, and 
she suffered a broken leg. One toe 
claw weighs two pounds.
Most T-rexes are only 40 to 50 
percent complete. Sues remains 
approach 100 percent.
The middle-aged female T-rex 
was discovered in 1990 by Sue 
Hendrickson, who was walking 
on a Cheyenne River reservation 
ranch in South Dakota, owned by 
Maurice Williams. It arrived in
New York last October, packed in 
130 crates and boxes.
Although not the biggest dino
saur ever discovered, the Tyranno
saurus rex, which lived during the 
late-Cretaceous period, 65 to 85 
million years ago, is certainly one 
of the largest terrestrial carnivores 
of all time. The biped was known 
for its speed and agility despite its 
underdeveloped forelimbs. It had 
4-foot long jaws with 6-inch ser
rated teeth. Its long, thick tail pro
vided balance and quick turning. 
Tyrannosaurus rex was about 40- 
50 feet long, about 15-20 feet tall, 
and about 5-6 tons in weight.
courtesy of Reuters
A young girl looks at the head of a Tyrannosaurus rex fossil on display 
at Sothebys auction house in New York City, October 3.
Pour-Day Forecast
TuesdaySunny.
Hi 79 Lo 56
WednesdaySunny.
HI 77 Lo 54
ThursdayPartly Cloudy. 
Hi 75 Lo 56
FridaySunny.
Hi 72 Lo 48
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, November 
11, 1947  Food prices at Skibo 
went up the week before due to 
rising wholesale food costs. Prices 
at the restaurant had remained 
the same for over four years until 
the increase occurred. When the 
increased wholesale prices meant 
Skibo would have to take a loss, 
Skibo was forced to pass on the 
costs to its consumers. It was 
emphasized that Skibo was a non
profit organization, but it had to 
cover its own bills.
25 YEARS AGO, October 17, 
1972After heated debate, Stu
dent Senate tabled a motion to 
increase the Activities Fee from 
$10 to $15 per semester. Until 
the time of the debate, Student 
Government had received $10 
from the administration for each 
full-time day student. This made 
the effective tuition $1240. The
money was used to fund the Ac
tivities Board, The Tartan, 
WRCT, and other campus orga
nizations. Today, Student Sen
ate is having a similar debate on 
the same issue.
10 YEARS AGO, October 6, 
1987  Two Delta Upsilon (DU) 
brothers were injured in an as
sault by unidentified Alpha Tau 
Omega (ATO) brothers while try
ing to enter ATOs porch on pledge 
night. Bill Richardson, a senior, 
received lacerations to his right 
eye and right side of his face. 
Evan Klein, a junior, was hit twice 
in the nose. Kleins broken nose 
eventually required surgery. The 
two were members of a group of 
30 to 40 DU brothers and pledges 
going to other houses in a pledge 
night tradition. On pledge night, 
about half the houses get all the 
brothers and pledges together and
go to the other fraternities and 
sororities. When they get to an
other house, they make a lot of 
noise and charge the porch. After 
attaining the porch, they usually 
get a beer and leave. When some 
of the DU brothers got to the ATO 
porch, they were told to stay off 
the porch. Ignoring the warning, 
DU charged the porch. They were 
stopped but DU charged again, 
after which punches began to be 
thrown by the ATO brothers. DU 
retreated and skirmishes broke 
out on the lawn.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
5, 1992  Student Senate 
passed a resolution condemn
ing the actions of the Office of 
the President for failing to con
sult with or notify them regard
ing the rephrasing of the State
ment of Assurance that is placed 
on University documents that
leave the school. According to 
the Student Handbook, any rec
ommended change in the State
ment of Assurance should be 
discussed with Faculty Senate 
and Student Senate before sub
mission to the President.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 7, 
1996The Faculty Search Coin* 
mittee continued its search for a 
replacement of then-president 
Mehrabian. At the time, they were 
busily in the process of searching 
their list of approximately 530 
people to find suitable candidates 
for the presidency. Prospects were 
considered not only from aca
demic areas, but also industry, 
government, and foundationsThe committee eventually settled 
on Dr. Jared Cohon.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSdN
CFA obtains high-tech cluster
CLUSTER, from page 1
dents have available to them on the 
Macs. Students will be able to use digital 
audio and video software, DAT drives, 
and MIDI keyboards.
;; Computing Services also has plans to 
add even more of the sequencing keyCreate wonderful things and 
make us proud.
 President Cohon
boards to the cluster.
Unlike some of the amenities in CFA, 
the 24-hour multimedia cluster is open 
to all students, regardless of their home 
college. Computing Services is, however, 
requiring that students wishing to use
the specialized hardware in the cluster 
take a training course.
The purpose of this course, said Tracey 
Futhey, Director of User Services (a di
vision of Computing Services) is not 
only to instruct the students how to use 
the machines responsibly, but also to 
inform students of all 
the different applica
tions available to them. 
The multimedia clus
ter was a collaboration 
within Computing Services as well. Cluster 
Facilities personnel, 
managed by Sandy Zeher, worked 
closely with Computing Services and 
the CFA faculty advisors.
Create wonderful things, and make 
us proud, said Cohon to CFA students 
during his closing speech.
w6iu99u C6aauepc61r20 Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Students and faculty gather at the grand 
opening of the renovated CFA cluster.
n269uO bmM 7r62i .retui L69l ICn
UNITED WAY, from page 1
sectors, such as the education sector.
Pittsburgh is going through a transi
tion period with bigbusiness, and United 
Way has had to look to other markets to 
make up that loss, said Deborah Smith, 
the United Way campaign associate as
signed to CMU.
It might be unrealistic to expect, how. ever, that educational institutions like 
CMU can make up the difference.
I dont think youre going to replace 
the giving from corporate Pittsburgh
with the giving from non-profit Pitts
burgh, said Don Hale, vice president of 
University Relations. Were prepared 
to step up and do our part, but I dont 
know if its going to replace a need like 
that.
United Way has also faced difficul
ties in recent years on the national 
level. In 1992, the president of United 
Way was accused and later convicted of 
swindling the organization out of more 
than $1 million. It took a few years for 
the organization to recover from the
scandal, and only in the last couple of 
years have contributions returned to 
pre-1992 levels.
As for the University campaign, con
tribution numbers have not been as 
greatly affected as they have nationally.
I dont know that it had that great an 
impact, said Hale, who coordinated the 
CMU campaign at the time of the scan
dal. I think we all recognize there are 
needs to be met in the local community, 
and United Way is an organization that 
addresses those needs.
Grad students vie 
for autonomy again
5F3W .erR Tmsu 
they would feel uncomfortable asking 
in a large group. Hopefully they will 
understand it better now, said Mike 
Szudarek, chair of the campus affairs 
committee and a junior IDS major.
We have tried our best to communi
cate to the senators, the merits of the 
proposal, said Jay Shankavaram,
president of GSA and a graduate ___
student in architecture.
Currently, there are no gradu
ate students in Senate, but there 
are approximately 36 active mem
bers of GSA. According to Krug, 
undergraduates and graduates 
are not interested in discussing 
the same issues. By creating separate governing bodies, represen
tatives will be able to better serve the 
student body.
Under the current plan, 40 percent of 
the Activities Fee paid by graduate 
students is given directly to GSA. The 
other 60 percent is given to Student 
Senate. The new plan will give 100 
percent , of th.e funds from graduate 
students to GSA, although 90 percent 
of the money will be channeled into the 
Joint Funding Committee (JFC).
This new committee formed by the 
Senate proposal will pool money from 
Senate and GSA Activities Fees. The 
committee will be composed of six un
dergraduate and three graduate stu-^'i 
dents. A majority will have to approve 
any decisions made by the committee,- 
including at least one graduate and one  
undergraduate student. The commit-' 
tee will be responsible for allocating 
funds to student organizations. The 
Funding and Recognition Committee, 
which currently handles money alloca>
We are waiting with 
cautious optimism. " 
 Jay Shankavaram 
President of GSA
tion, will have a lesser role in Senate | 
finances. Its purpose will primarily be; 
to recognize new campus organizations.!
I think it will allow us to represent! 
graduates and undergraduates more! 
fairly, said Krug. Should the proposal! 
pass, Senate will also consider amend-! 
ing the constitution so only under-! 
graduate students can assume the role! 
of student body president. The amend-! 
ment will also give the president veto! 
power over both GSA and Senate. '
Weve tried our best to educate the  
senators.... We are waiting with cau
tious optimism, said Shankavaram. '
Crime and Incident Report
9/26 MEDICAL, 7:30 am  
The victim stated to the officer 
that at the Mariott Hotel near 
the Pittsburgh Airport, his ve. hide ran out of gas. He was 
/attempting to push the vehicle 
: when he felt something in his 
leg pop. When he arrived at 
. Carnegie Mellon, his leg had 
swollen. He requested and was 
 given transportation to Presby
terian Hospital.
9/26 MEDICAL, 10:31pmA 
Mudge House resident contacted 
Campus Police complaining of a 
:'Severe stomachache. He re
quested a medical escort. He was 
provided transportation to Uni
versity of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center after refusing CMU EMS.
9/27 MEDICAL, 4:05 pm  
" The victim was working in the 
^University Center removing vegjetables from a steamer when she 
stumbled on a rubber mat in 
front of the steamer. The fall 
.caused the boiling water from 
the steamer to fall upon her left
thigh and burn it. When the of
ficer arrived on the scene, the 
victim was being treated by a 
member of CMU EMS at the UC 
loading dock. The victim was 
transported to Shadyside Hospi
tal ER by the officer.
9/27 PUBLIC DRUNKEN
NESS/OPEN LEWDNESS/AS
SAULT/RESISTING AR
REST, 12:14 am  Two Cam
pus Police officers were patrol
ling the fraternity quad in full 
uniform when they observed an 
individual standing outside one 
of the fraternities. In full view of 
passersby, he started to undo his 
zipper and indicate that he was 
about to urinate right then and 
there. A loud voice came from 
the direction of the fraternity, 
-saying, Hey you, get out of here! 
The actor then went over to the 
outside wall of a neighboring fra
ternity and proceeded to urinate. 
By this time, the officers were on 
him. One approached the actor 
and told him to produce some 
identification, to which the actor
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks article, Crew gains new coach, there was an 
error. Dean Taylor was not a former member of the Canadian 
National Team.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an 
error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Sharmila Venkatasubban at 
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
responded that he had none. The 
officer then put his hand on the 
actors right shoulder and said 
that he would have to come down 
to the police station. The actor 
said Okay, but then pushed 
the officer with both hands in 
the chest.
At this point, the other officer 
began to assist the first officer in 
handcuffing the actor. However, 
before the handcuffs were ap
plied, the actor broke free of their 
grasp and started to swing his 
clenched fists. He struck the first 
officer in the lower jaw. After the 
two officers wrestled him to the 
ground, they finally got hand
cuffs on him. The actor contin
ued to call both of the officers 
motherf#@%ers and faggots, 
causing a crowd to form. The 
actor was examined as best as 
was possible by CMU EMS. The 
actor persisted in his combative
ness even then. The actor had to 
be carried to the police van, dur
ing which the actor kicked at the 
officers. One officer was lacked 
in the face. The actor was, of 
course, arrested.
10/1 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 1:15 am 
The officer on duty took a harass
ment report over the telephone 
from an Austin, Texas resident. 
He said that he had had a dis
agreement with a CMU student
on a newsgroup. The student 
emailed the victim saying that 
CMU students are hackers and 
that he would not be able to stop 
the deluge of emails he was to 
receive. The victim took this as a 
threat and emailed 
Abuse@andrew.cmu.edu about 
the situation. The next day, he 
received a phone call from a 
DataCom employee concerned 
about the situation. The employee 
said he would look into the mat
ter. The victim reported to the 
officer that he had received over 
700 messages, each three pages 
in length, consisting of random 
text. The mail came from a CMU 
address. The victim believes that 
the student with whom he had 
earlier troubles is responsible and 
also said that email of this vol
ume could create problems for 
his Internet service provider.
WhaW ttswrwot ngiSude
4:00 pm  After searching the 
area for the suspicious person, 
the officer spoke with the com
plainant who reported the per
son. The complainant described 
him as a white male 35-40 years 
of age, having long, wavy brown 
hair and a longer unkempt beard. 
The complainant was i n her GSIA 
office at the time of the incident. 
The man walked into her office, 
looked surprised to see her there, 
and quickly went away. She fol:
at the AB cabal
the hippest movie of the year, featuring: 
dapper fellas and dazzlin1 ladies 
alcoholic revelry
suave music 
smooth, choreographed dancing7:30 10:00 12:30friday october 10
COCKTAILS FIRS
na ? connan room
the hippest party of the year, featuring:
dapper fellas and dazzlin' ladies
free NON alcoholic revelry.. 
in martini glasses with paper umbrellas!
even more suave music
dancing (smoothness is up to you)
BEFORE DURING AFTER the movie
T. MOVIE LATER.
lowed, asking, Can I help you? 
to which he replied that he was 
an alumnus. She followed with 
what year. He responded, 74? 
78? She said later that he did 
not appear nor sound like a 
GSIA alumnus.
In her opinion, the man is local 
and uneducated. He left via the 
rear doors and headed toward 
Frew Street.
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all repoiis prior to 
release.
 Only three people on The Taj-tan 
staff see the reports: the Editor-inChief, the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of complain
ants, victims, suspects, andfratemity 
names are omitted from the printed 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details aie given only in tile 
context of complete descriptions. ;
 Not every incident that occurs 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RYAN SCHILLING
Shape The Future OfTechnology!
From downhole testing and monitoring in the oilfield to metering 
systems, semi-conductor testing and diagnostic equipment - including the 
latest in electronic transaction and smart card" systems - Schlumberger 
sets the technology standards. Worldwide.
But companies don.t create technology. People do. 54,000 talented 
individuals at Schlumberger generate annual revenues of $8.96 billion. 
They do the work. They get the recognition. From us, and their industry peers.
If you're studying Engineering, Computer Science, Geosciences and/or 
Applied Sciences, talk to us. We want you to create the future of high 
technology. And be recognized.
Your attendance at the Information Meeting 
is a prerequisite to the interviewing grocess.
Please attend. Refreshments provided!
Carnegie Mellon University Interviews!
Information Meeting - October 13,1997
5pm-7pm  Student Center, Room 206
Interviewing-October 14,1997
Check with Placement Center for Details.
Sign-up Now for Interviews.
Schlumberger
An Equal Opportunity Employer
www.slb.com

---------------------------------------------------

Put yourself in a place, 
where you load a server 
with a product, that
embodies
your ideas, that redefines 
the Internet, that evolves 
multimedia, that inno
vates communication, 
that drives the enterprise, 
that changes everything. 
Including the world.
Microsoft Company Presentation 
Wednesday, October 8 
6:00 PM Doherty Hall #2315
Come see us and bring your resume. 
Pizza! Windows CE Raffle!! 
www.microsoft.com/college/
Microsoft
ext.

---------------------------------------------------

That's why our intelligence needs your intelligence.
The National Security Agency is a key player in the United States' security. 
Using technologies that dramatically redefine current boundaries, we gather 
foreign intelligence.
If you're ready, we're ready to apply your 
knowledge and your skills to today's most intriguing 
challenges, in an environment that is omong the 
largest and most technologically advanced in the world.
We're looking for graduates in 
Computer Sdente, Computer Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, and 
Asian, Middle Eastern or Slavic languages.
You may qualify by meeting the following criteria:
U.S. Citizenship (including you and your immediate family),
a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale (3.5 for mathematics),
ond successful completion of a background investigation and security clearance.
We'll Be On Campus 
Info Session:
Oct. 16 
Interviews: Oct. 17 
Check Your Placement 
Office For Details!
(We suggest applying at least six months before you would like to begin your 
NSA coreer.)
If you desire a coreer that lives on the 
cutting edge, or would like information about our 
Co*op and Internship programs, make sure to see us 
on campus or send your resume in confidence to: 
National Security Agency, Suite 6840, 
S232R-(AXC),
9800 Savage Road,
Ft. George G. Meade, MD 
20755-6840.
Visit our Homepage at WWW.flSd.gOV
National Security Agency 
The science of Intelligence. Explore it.
Eqtd Ofpaitrily Errtoy. NSI is ramiltd lo ahrd dwsty h iie tmVfcrte n wVIorte. Potiers epsn lo U.5. dirns ait
Volumelo92,lI,9
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
COME HOME TO OPPORTUNITIES IN.
ASIA MIDDLE EAST
MALAYSIA PHILIPPINES JAPAN 
S.KOREA HONG KONG THAILAND 
SINGAPORE INDONESIA TAIWAN 
BAHRAIN SAUDI ARABIA SYRIA 
KUWAIT EGYPT JORDAN 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
The member firms of the Andersen Worldwide Organization outside the U.S. 
are seeking candidates who have permanent work authorization in any of 
these countries with plans to return home after completing their bachelor's or 
master's degrees in fields related to:
 Business Administration (Masters of Business Administration)
 Accounting
 Taxation 
0 Finance
 Economics
 Law
We will be visiting Carnegie Mellon University on October 28th to 
interview international students who will graduate in Fall 97, and 
Spring and Summer 98. To be considered for one of these positions, 
please submit your resume by October 14th to your career center for 
the ANDERSEN WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATION interview 
schedule or to:
Maggie M. Chan 
Andersen Worldwide 
International Recruiting 
8000 Towers Crescent Drive 
Vienna, Virginia 22182 
Fax: (703) 762-1170
e-mail: international.recruiting@awo.com
Visit our 
home page at 
httpy/www.arthurandersen.com
other's a
And your brother's a drunk
(and he just paid $2 
for the fattest whore 
in New London...)
Its a tale fit for Geraldo.
Or Jenny Jones. Or Sally.
But this is no white-trash, 
trailerpark confessional.
Its the autobiographical masterpiece by 
4-tlme Pulitzer Prize winner Eugene ONeill. 
And this story of Americas first and most 
famous dysfunctional family is 
only at the Public
s69C aVrnI
g
PITTSBURGH
EugeneO'Neill
ALL TICKETS. ALL SHOWS. Under 25 / Fulltime
STUDENTS -$io
October 9 thru November 16Call 321-9800
Allegheny Square  Northside 
Pittsburg!) iJflosNfcette
ACK Wi POPULAR. DEMAND
<a->Residents $5
 lion-Residents $8
Student Dormitory Council
tickets on sale outside Dohertybusses load at 930 boat docks at2:oo

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University6 October 1997
ICnfi ugu29 Tkya6t69M 
2uuOi 6RTergRu29
| To tackle the age-old problem 
; of lack of event publicity on camigus, Student Activities is once 
 again looking for ways to create 
!new venues for student groups 
| to advertise their programs. But 
! the solution to the problem is not 
; necessarily more advertising out; lets, but a revamping of the ones 
that are already in place.
; The Event Publicity (EventPub) 
! calendar, which was implemented 
jlast fall by Student Activities 
comes out three times a week to 
inform the campus of upcoming 
events. It has proved to be an 
| ineffective resource due mainly to 
poor location and distribution. 
Most students do not know where 
to find the EventPub because it 
;has been placed in obscure spots 
such as on the backs of doors and 
an low traffic areas on campus. 
The calendar is printed on an 8- 
1/2 x 11 inch sheet of paper  
:barely large enough for passersby to notice, let alone read.
EventPub also fails to provide 
a complete listing of events, 
mainly because of poor coordi
nation with organizations.
For the past several years there 
have been plans to create a Mas
ter Calendar, a web-based cen
tral database of event listings, 
but Student Activities has 
dragged their feet on this proj ect. 
The Website, which is due out in 
December, would link together 
calendars from different depart
ments and organizations. This
site will supposedly act as a cen
tralized source of information on 
campus events, eliminating some 
of the problems of the EventPub 
calendar.
One of the biggest resources at 
CMU is students  Student Ac
tivities should make use of them. 
Pooling the talents of design and 
business students to act as adver
tising consultants for event plan
ners would help improve the qual
ity and effectiveness of current 
advertising techniques. Student 
Activities should consider creat
ing a reserve of funding desig
nated to help support such a group 
and also help student organzations 
cover publicity costs.
When the University Housing 
Office added cable television ac
cess to campus dormitories and 
apartments, certain channels 
were reserved for CMU to broad
cast over the air. Televised ad
vertising of event listings would 
improve publicity for activities 
ten-fold.
While such ideas have the 
potential to be successful strat
egies in drawing larger audi
ences to campus events, the 
main factor which generally 
prevents them from living up 
to expectations is that no one 
takes ownership of these plans. 
It is up to those initiating the 
project to makes these re
sources easily accessible for stu
dents to use as a marketing aid 
and as a source of information.
hry .m6e ilrkaO .rtki 
r2 a6yuema me9i
Last week, the English 
departments Student Advisory 
Council once again brought to 
the table plans for a Humanities 
Opportunties Conference (HOC).
While last years H&SS/MCS job 
fair provided technically-oriented humanities majors ample 
opportunity to make connections 
with potential employers, few of 
the companies that were invited 
offered jobs to liberal arts stu
dents. Organizers should make 
sure that the conference does 
not turn in to another measure 
for companies to recruit pro
grammers  the focus of the job 
fair needs to rest on the needs of 
english, philosophy, modern lan
guage, and economics majors as 
well as a variety of other fields in 
which students tend to have dif
ficulty finding jobs.
To begin with, organizers must 
solicit the proper companies  
those that recognize and desire 
the skills that liberal arts ma
jors possess. Some organizations 
that come to mind are govern
ment and non-profit organiza
tions, start-up companies, other 
colleges that offer graduate projgrams, as well as publications,
social research institutions, and 
ipublishing firms.
Some of these companies, such 
as non-profit organizations, 
might have limited financial re
sources; they might not be able 
;to pay the fee of up to $450 that 
the BOC and TOC typically 
charges per booth. In these
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Staff
Letters to the Editor
Senior responds to Ethnic debate
Editor:
After reading Dave 
Libers article on Eth
nic Clubs last week, I 
wondered why Mr. 
Liber felt he was in
Wihfenty Centn Bra. jn
cases perhaps organizers of the 
HOC should look regionally for 
such companies so that they 
can afford to attend by cutting 
travel costs.
The organization of a job fair 
requires the strong leadership 
of students willing to put in the 
time and dedication. Coordina
tion, ample planning, communi
cation, and a pooling of skills 
and talents are needed to it pull 
off successfully. Most of these 
companies will judge the quality 
and caliber of CMU students 
based on their interactions with 
HOC committee members; 
these students should create a 
professional impression for po
tential employers. Events do not 
run themselves and more often 
than not, the best results hap
pen when students are involved 
because their own interests are 
at stake.
A Humanities Opportunties 
Conference has the potential to 
provide liberal arts students with 
the jump starts they need in 
launching their careers. Students 
should take ownership of the 
project and starting planning now 
 with sohd leadership and focus, 
the fair can give humanities stu
dents the proper direction in their 
job search that they need. Stu
dents in these majors are typi
cally the ones that have the most 
difficulty searching through the 
j ob market. Lasting venues to help 
them through the process need to 
be implemented.
Letter to the Editor
the position to make such amazingly 
broad statements. Just for the record, I 
too am a white male, and my experi
ences at CMU seem to stand in direct 
contradiction to Mr. Libers statements.
Mr. Liber is a freshman. How does he 
expect to know about the Lunar Gala 
Fashion Show, Midnight Bowling, 
Paintball, river-rafting, Valentines Day 
Candygrams, Booth at Carnival, and 
everything else student groups such as 
ASA do for the campus community as a 
whole, regardless of ethnicity, gender, 
or anything else?
I wonder if Mr. Liber has been to any 
of the parties at the ASA House. If he 
has, then he would know that these 
parties are packed with representatives 
from every ethnic group on campus  
even white males  all getting down 
and having a good time together. Divi
sion and segregation arent exactly 
the words I would use to describe this 
sort of thing.
The second problem I had with Mr. 
Libers article was his lack of effort in 
finding out about the organizations that 
he sees fit to attack.
When I came to CMU, I had no desire 
to join any sort of student organization 
whatsoever. But since then, Ive not only 
been an active member of ASA, but House 
Manager for the ASA Special Interest 
House, and ASA Booth Chair for last 
years Carnival (assisted greatly by my 
good friend Steven Yu).
If these organizations promote segre
gation and division among the campus 
community, then how, as a white male, 
did I end up with good friends in just 
about all of them, whether based on 
ethnic, philosophical, or Greek princi
ples? I wonder if Mr. Liber has even had 
time to see the whole campus yet.
I wonder if he feels that having a 
Womens Center promotes sexual segre
gation at CMU.
I was at the ASA meeting that took 
place during Orientation, and while there 
was only one other Caucasian there, her 
name was not Dave Liber. What Mr. 
Liber doesnt seem to realize is that 
CMU is already a white male Club.
If you were to break down the student 
body by gender and race, the overwhelm
ing majority would be white males, so 
why have a club?
On the other hand, if I was at a 
university in Borneo, I just might want 
one, and in that case, it would make a 
lot more sense.
Mr. Liber has a problem with these 
organizations being funded by the Uni
versity.
I would think that Mr. Liber would be 
better off attacking the system that 
gives the bureaucrats of CMU the right 
to take his money and redistribute it 
where they see fit, without his permis
sion, rather than attacking the orga
nizations themselves.
If I could choose where my money was 
going, Housing and student organiza
tions would have a lot more, and CMU 
Police would consist of three officers 
riding around in a yellow Dodge Omni. 
But thats where your personal agency 
and responsibility comes in.
If you want ASA to provide you with 
their services, then go join, and theyll be 
happy to do so.
But if you dont want to learn about 
Asian culture, then dont worry about it, 
and they wont bother you either. Just as 
I consider it my responsibility to tell 
people about the myth of freedom in a 
representative democracy, you should 
consider it yours to look beyond what the 
centralized power structure of CMU pre
sents to you and discover what the indi
vidual humans have to offer.
Patrick Conlin 
Senior
Creative WritingStudent expands on NAFTA issue
Editor:
Regarding Luke 
Brindles article [9/29] 
on President Clintons 
remarks on fast-track 
authority to negotiate
MERCOSUL and strengthen the U.S. 
position in the FTAA negotiations.
The important conclusion for the 
American political/diplomatic establish
ment is that trade negotiations with the 
Southern Cone require different strate
gies from previous dissimilar negotia
tions with Mexico. President Clintons 
upcoming state visit to Brazil and Ar
gentina may be an opportunity to foster 
mutual understanding, although, as of 
now, Mr. Clinton has not shown the 
willingness to go beyond the usual photo 
ops and politically correct speeches.
Marcelo Bruno 
Doctoral student 
ECEGun prohibition could prove fatal
Letter to the Editor
Letter to the Editor
trade deals with South American coun
tries, one point that is widely missed by 
the American media is that the cur
rent proposal to expand NAFTA to the 
entire hemisphere also faces signifi
cant opposition within the Southern 
Cone of the continent itself.
Unlike Mexico or Central America, 
which are highly dependent on the U.S. 
market, countries like Brazil, Argen
tina, and Chile are said to be global 
traders, meaning that the destination 
of their exports is more equally divided 
among a variety of regional markets, 
including not only the U.S., but also the 
European Union, the Asia-Pacific re
gion, and other Latin American coun
tries. The geographical diversification 
of the southern countries foreign trade 
reduces the urgency of a NAFTA-like 
association with the U.S.
An important factor in the equation 
was the creation in the early 90s of the 
Southern Cone Common Market (or 
MERCOSUL), originally a customs 
union including Brazil, Argentina, Uru
guay, and Paraguay, with later bilateral 
agreements with Chile and Bolivia. The 
success of MERCOSUL strengthened 
the position of the southern countries 
vis--vis the U.S. and enabled them to 
come to the trade summits with a com
mon position.
The problems in the trade negotiating 
process come in a time where the State 
Department is showing extreme incom
petence in its relations with the South
ern Cone. The recent decisions by the 
U.S. government to sell advanced jet 
fighters to Chile and to extend extraNATO preferential ally status to Argen
tina have caused tension in the region. 
On the other hand, Washingtons move 
to support a permanent Latin American 
seat in the U.N. Security Council has led 
to uneasiness between Brazil and Ar
gentina/Mexico. Above all, these moves 
are seen in the Southern Cone as rather 
childish attempts by Washington to 
break up the cohesion within
Editor:
James Stepanek 
asks, Why does any
one need a gun? but 
continues to give only 
a partial answer. The 
most important answer is stated clearly 
in our constitution. A well-regulated 
militia, being necessary to the security 
of a free State, the right of the people to 
keep and bear arms, shall not be in
fringed. Stepanek is only half correct 
when he says, Its simply about free
dom. It is also about life. The disarming 
of the German population in the 30s 
was a necessary precondition for the 
following Holocaust. While it is unlikely 
that any of the people supporting gun 
control in America have such designs, 
gun control will make another Holo
caust easier to pull off. Despite what the 
writers of our Declaration of Indepen
dence thought, the equality of man is not 
self-evident to everyone. In practice, it is 
due to the simple ability of any person to 
kill any other person. If some persons, or 
a people, allow their right to bear arms 
to be eliminated, they will become mili
tarily inferior and must depend on a 
superior group to protect them.
We have the choice of accepting a defi
nite loss of 10 or 15 lives every few years 
as someone with a gun flips out, or we 
can put ourselves at much greater risk 
of a few million lives being lost when 
only the crazy men have the guns. Please 
dont put all of us at risk of a Holocaust 
by telling yourself that it will never 
happen here. Obviously, the many mil
lion persons who died in Germany didnt 
believe that they would be killed by their 
government run amok.
Waiting periods before buying weap
ons and mandated training will not put 
our life and liberty at risk, but outright 
prohibition of weapons could be disas
trous. When we decide what weapons 
may be held by a regular adult citizen, 
the main criterion we should look at is 
whether the weapon is made for defense 
or for offense. We should not worry about 
what one psycho may do with the weapon; 
the vast majority of killings involving 
guns have been committed by regular 
men with the support of their communi
ties.
Adam Retchless 
Sophomore 
Biology

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSdd
U.S. melting pot 
risks cooldown
David Liber
The United States is a nation 
made up of immigrants or de
scendants of immigrants. 
Whether your ancestors came 
over by the Bering Strait land 
bridge as did Native Americans, 
on a ship crossing the North 
Atlantic as, or on a Boeing 747 
from Hong Kong as many do 
today, we are all immigrants in 
some way. I freely admit that, 
as a nation, we have always 
been reluctant to welcome all 
immigrants to this country, and 
for mostly racist or bigoted rea
sons. However, even though 
Congress still maintains quo
tas on the amount of Europeans 
and Asians that may immigrate 
to this country, the attitude 
Americans have towards immi
grants has changed to some
thing totally different.
A belief in multiculturalism 
lias helped destroy the cliched 
idea of the melting pot and 
turned it into a tossed salad. 
This latter idea states that we 
must all keep our heritage and 
ancestral identity and coexist 
together instead of blending our 
cultural identities to form and 
contribute to the American cul
tural identity as a whole. This 
beliefin multiculturalism, while 
trying to be holistic in its re
spect to other cultures, is slowly 
tearing apart that national 
unity needed for any country to 
exist as one people in the world. 
The American cultural identity 
is not made up of Africans, 
Asians, and Europeans all ex
isting in our own separate com
munities wearing our traditional 
dress and eating our traditional 
food while respecting each other. 
The American cultural identity 
is made up ofNike-wearing, punkrock-listening Asians; classicalmusic-listening, Calvin-Kleinwearing Africans; and curriedtofu-eating, Pet-Shop Boys-listening, Structure-wearing Europe
ans. Yet this belief in 
multiculturalism denies people 
the right to give up their ances
tral heritage as they want so that 
they may assimilate.
Ah yes, assimilation  that 
dreaded word that frightens 
multiculturalists. Yes, we must 
all learn to assimilate in some 
way. To learn to speak English 
so we may communicate with 
each other; to learn what goes 
on a Big Mac, to learn the Pledge 
of Allegiance, the national an
them, and why every first Tues
day in November we show up at 
the polls to conduct the great 
democratic experiment.
We must all sacrifice some form 
of our heritage to assimilate into 
this nation. Only by assimilating 
do we have a say in the change; 
only by giving up some part of 
ourselves.For the sake of the 
United States and its existence 
as a nation, we must all learn to 
assimilate ourselves into this 
American cultural identity. Fail
ure means a loss of pride in our 
nation, its people, its communi
ties, its heritage, and the philoso
phies of Locke and Jefferson that 
give us this democratic heritage 
that, while flawed, is remarkable 
in the course of social history.
Dcwe Liber is a freshman in 
H&SS. He welcomes any respon
sible replies to his column.
Quirks spice up CMU
r Justin C
The thickly stuffed envelope fit snugly in my 
grasp. It had a good, solid weight and ached to be 
torn open in wondrous frenzy. Carnegie Mellon 
was printed in enticing red letters accompanied 
by the strangely tilted square outline by its side. 
An even stranger cylin
drical architecture that 
we all now know adorns 
Hamerschlag Hall 
proudly situated itself 
amongst the mail that 
would change my life for
ever. I knew that this let
ter was different. All the 
other responses had been 
flimsy single page notes 
with stamped signa
tures, and unless this 
was a really well-articulated rejection letter, I 
had the optimism that I 
was finally in. But what 
was I about to enter?
Of course I had visited 
CMU and done my re
search prior to applying, but just as in any 
experience, you really have to be there to know. 
The essence of CMU had eluded me and, conse
quently, the culture had remained hidden. All I 
had known as my eyes grew wider observing the 
envelope containing the prospect of my future 
was that it had a unique name and a computer 
that couldnt print squares straight.
After I arrived and became situated in my 
new university life, CMU rapidly revealed its 
hidden nature. Visions of ivy, sun-drenched 
greenery, and the random interspersing of 
couples situated Indian-style under a grand
father oak were soon replaced by white brick 
arches, dark Pittsburgh days, and 24-hour 
work schedules.
Crisp autumn tailgates, and even the pre
tentious coat of arms upon the university 
entrance gate perceptibly transposed to 
thistles, terriers, and bagpipes.
As I continued to be integrated into this strik
ingly different college community, things got 
stranger. How do I get involved? Well, I have the
choice of either stuffing one of my smaller friends 
into a streamlined bubble and propelling him or 
her to the highest velocity possible, or maneuver
ing my very own robot through a series of complex 
curves to victory.
And what of school colors? Not one, not two, but 
a full-fledged pattern: Tartan Plaid.
Where were the stereotypes? What had hap
pened to that college that was so clearly depicted 
for me in the movies and on the brochures?
CMU took that idea and turned it upside-down.
Things are different 
here, strange, but 
unique and special. 
And as much as our 
S3,mbols and culture 
reflect the spirit and 
traditions of Carnegie 
himself, they have 
also evolved to create 
the peerless atmo
sphere of CMU as we 
know it today.
Things have defi
nitely changed, but 
they have done so to 
transform CMU into 
an altogether differ
ent institution.
From Booth to KGB, 
that which makesMark Adato/Tartan Art Staff
CMU CMU is found in the details. Our symbols 
and nuances of culture seem to define the school as 
a whole, and separate our student body from all the 
other generic clones.
Our differences at CMU become a bonus rather 
than a disappointment. They attribute individual
ity to all of the activities we see around us and that 
define what Carnegie Mellon stands for. These 
differences allude to the diversity of talent and 
character that we all know persists around us.
So when others look upon our unique community 
and perceive our student body as being crazy for 
continually painting the same fence over and over 
again, and when the rumors start to spread about 
mysterious campers courageously daring the bitter 
cold of Pittsburgh winter in defense of a paint job 
that really doesnt seem that altogether well done, 
think about the singleness of your experience and 
the challenging of perceptions you will bring to the 
curious bearer of the CMU envelope.
Justin Cina is a freshman design major. He 
welcomes any responsible replies to his column.
Cable television shuts off intellectual growth
Jeff Thibert
Theres been quite a bit of discussion around here 
these past few weeks regarding the installation of cable 
TV in the dorms.'
Before, we got the broadcast networks, but you had to 
pull some interesting contortions with the antenna in 
order to get a signal that didnt look like something out 
of that Bing Crosby classic, White Christmas.
At any rate, there are three basic opinions about the 
cable. Some people love it, some people hate it, and some 
.people dont care all that much. Does it matter, though? 
I dont think so. I think any problems (or benefits) lie in 
television itself, whether broadcast or cable  the 
.problem is far more general. It goes beyond cable TV at 
CMU to television in general at CMU j cable or not, 
.most of it is harmful. See, television is an excellent 
medium, but its misused constantly.
. People in general waste so much time watching 
television thatits astounding. Lets not talk about 
people in general, though  lets talk about people here 
,at CMU. Ill bet that a lot of people spend their Thursday 
nights watching the Thursday night shows on NBC. 
You know, Friends, Seinfeld, and the like. At any 
rate, I have a minor problem with this, because I just
cant understand why people here would want to spend 
their time in front of the television when there are so 
many more interesting, enlightening, and produc
tive things they could be doing, since theyre on a 
college campus.
Some might say, to counter me, that television actually 
brings people together. Well, I find it really odd how TV 
brings people together; it does it in an entirely imper
sonal way. Ive seen fairly large groups of people watch
ing TV and when the session is over, they all scatter to 
their respective corners.
Sure, during the show, they heckle the screen and 
maybe they chit-chat during the commercials, but how is 
this bringing anyone closer together?And maybe some 
just use television as a background noisemany people 
say they cant studywithout something going on, whether 
it be music, chatter, or the television. But even if you are 
using it just for background noise, there are backgrounds 
that would be more conducive to thinking  like classi
cal music, or nature sounds, or something.
The most common argument that people give regard
ing the worth of television is that its a wonderful relax
ation aid. Watching a comedy like Seinfeld is great 
because you get to laugh; watching a good drama lets you 
cry, or to emote in some other way. I havent been able to 
figure out sports yet. Maybe its nice to watch other 
people running around because we feel as if we, too, are 
being active, rather than lying around like bums. At any 
rate, I think the real reason people enjoy these shows is 
because they dont make you think. I mean, with com
edies, the jokes float in, and the laughs float out, but its 
hard to know exactly why youre laughing, and its 
hard to remember afterwards what you thought was 
so funny. Same goes for sadness with dramas, and 
excitement with sports.
TV doesnt always have to shut off your thinking, or 
make you passive, of course  its just that most of the 
popular shows do those things. There is good TV, or 
worthwhile TV, that can educate people, or cause 
some sort of inner reflection. Well probably have 
classes here over the television sooner or later, and 
there are some thoughtful shows that make you 
think meaningfully.
So Im not knocking all television, but more often than 
not, I think ignoring other pursuits to watch it is terrible 
 especially here. I mean, were at college! There are 
people you can talk to, there is research to be pursued, 
there are professors who would probably love to discuss 
your favorite subjects. There are plays to be seen, music to be 
heard, walks to be taken, books to be read, and self-reflection 
to be done. Id be perfectly happy if we lost the majority of the 
cable, and even most of whats on the standard networks  
lets just keep the things that are helpful. After all, college is 
supposed to be a time for growth, and how are we growing 
while were passively, transfixed in front of a screen? Well... 
maybe you can tell me.
Jeff Thibert is a freshman in the University Choice 
Program. He welcomes, and even goes so far as to encour
age, respectful replies to his column.
A PERSONS
OPINION
9
It may sound surprising, but 
attraction does bloom at CMU. 
To prove that, we asked stu
dents: What aspect do you 
think about when checking 
someone out?
compiled by Bharat Bhat and Anna Fortin
Sheri Harbi 
Sophomore 
Biology
Wondering how much it will 
hurt... and dimples, a must.
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff
Jen Lee
Sophomore
Art
I dont like beefheads. Hes 
got to have a neck.
Jason Cook 
Sophomore 
Art
Im an ass man.
Emily Slaby
Junior
Chemistry
Hair  straight and down to 
[the chin].
THETARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief....................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor...............Ena Khan
Business Manager......Amit Sheth
Acting News Editor........Daniel Arp
Forum Editor.........................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Sports Editor.................Chris Cannon
Features Editor...Becky A. Cowser 
Acting Diversions Editor. .Anne Ray
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors .... Matt' 
Tragresser, Kiera Westphal
Dossier Literary Editors...........Lilian
Lee, Marshall Warfield'
Art Editor...........................Julee White
Photo Editor.................Anthony Chao
Production Manager..Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager. Stephen Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules.
Copy Manager..........Victor Ortega,
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling 
Asst. Forum Editor ..Rebecca Fribush1
Asst. Diversions Editor...........Ryan
Donovani
Asst. Art Editor...........Mark Adato
Asst. Production Mgr.........William!
Holtz.
Photo Staff Manager........Brian Smith
Darkroom Mgr.........................Lisette1
Miller-Dixon
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
Kenneth Kraemer, Jay Miolla, 
Tracy Odell, Jason Siegendorf
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelltz, Susan Watson
Staffwriters 
Max Chlttlster, Matt Cuccaro, Dave Elman, Sheila Flanagan, Charles 
Fryman, Rhonda Gillespie, Elizabeth, Irvine, Carrie Jones-McGuIre, Ryan 
Kellogg, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, Greg Marcks, Maureen McGranaghan, Trevor Meyerowitz, 
Stacey Reed, Nia Rodgers, Jaya 
Saxena, Scott Shell, Reena Singhal, 
Nathan Stelnweld, James Stepanek,- 
Ryan Wlllhlte, Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Nell Babra, Tom Birdsey, James, 
Mojonnier, Tony Yu
Comics jAkira Hasegawa, Hiromt
Hasegawa, James Mojonnier, Dave Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Anna Fortin, Stacey Tetzlaff,; Michelle Ungerer
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy CrisostomO, Elias Fallon, Maria Gimenez, Daniel 
Klein, Samuel Listopad, Paul Moore, 
Diana Rutherford, Erica Yamada
Production Blake Engel, Flllpe Fortes, Derek 
Greentree, Maria Manautou, Tammy 
Manskl, Greg Nofi, Andrea Okerholm, 
Michael Pudup, Diana Rutherford, 
Rimas Svarcas
CopyDavid Elman, Dianne Gigler, Heather 
Keith, Lorelei Laird, Helena.. 
McGahagan, Matthew McHenry,- 
Andrew Thompson, Joanne Wei
Business Kevin Fine, Michael Y Kan, Na Y 
Lee, Norman Mok, NikilShah, Palak 
Shah, Vikas Sood, Toshi Takano, Irene Tan
Junior Staff 
Neema Avashia, David Bazelon, Douglas Beeferman, Bharat Bhat, Steve' 
Bidwa, Brendan Bosworth, Luke 
Brindle, James Carney, Rengie Chan, 
Susie Cribbs, Noah Donaldson, Ian 
Downey, Cormac Eubanks, Andrew 
Francis, Katy Harnes, Andrew 
Hollopeter, Ryan Laird, Emily Landes, 
John Lee, Seth Mandel, Anand Marathe, Alex Markle, Art Oberoi, 
Ping Pan, Paulette Poulle, Rob 
Punkunus, Jeff Thibert, Joshua 
Walstrom, Daniel Wu, Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of-' 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost, 
to members of the University community/ 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania; 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available1 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion: 
of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions; 
of individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column) 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually,1 
but not necessarily, members of the. 
University community. A letter intended' 
for publication must be signed and include^ 
the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld' 
upon request. The Tartan requests that: 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or' 
reject any letter. Copyright  1997 by The, 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from! 
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication. Office: University Centerf 
Room 314 Phone: 412/268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/ m 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 fc
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu Jfr]$'$0 
Funded in part by your Activities rw97 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library 
of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107. The Tartan 
is a member of the Associated Press. j

---------------------------------------------------

iVMM U vvt ig9VM yVS dNm,2eM,
CARNEGIE MELLON POLICY ON UNIVERSITY FINAL EXAMINATIONS 
PREAMBLE
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for the undergraduate 
courses (defined as courses that are numbered xx-6xx or below). These policies represent an understanding between 
faculty and students concerning an important but often stressful period at the conclusion of each academic semester. 
There should be no expectation that the following points will cover every conceivable situation. The student should 
anticipate the demands of the end-of-semesler schedule, plan accordingly and early, and be prepared. The faculty 
should recognize that the student is encumbered with many tightly orchestrated and intensive obligations during this 
period over which he or she has no control; expectations should be reasonably consistent with the number of course 
units and, of course, should be made known to the student well in advance of the final examination period.
DEFINITIONS
The university's official final examination period begins on the Monday immediately following the last day of 
classes and continues through the last day of scheduled final examinations, with the exception of reading day(s).
nation in the course, no classes other than review sessions shall be held during the final examination period. Review 
sessions should be scheduled for optimal attendance, and a serious effort should be made to accommodate students 
who cannot attend. In appreciation of the time required to prepare for final examinations, no other examinations, 
portfolio reviews, critiques, or juries shall be scheduled within four days of the final examination of the same course.
^"Instructors shall never exert or submit to pressures to move an examination so that people can leave earlier nor 
pressure students to take an examination on a reading day or weekend preceding examinations.
5. No student is required to take more than two scheduled examinations that start within a 24-hour period. A student 
who has more than two examinations scheduled within a 24-hour period or has two examinations scheduled at the 
same time should contact first the instructor of the course for assistance in resolving conflicts. If the problem cannot 
be resolved by that means, the student should contact the associate dean of his or her home college.
6. Take-home final examinations shall be given for any 24-hour period of the student's choosing during the final 
examination period.
 Scheduled final examinations are those scheduled by Enrollment Services. An instructor may choose not to fix a 
schedule for the final examination, but instead allow each student to choose the examination time; such exams are 
called self-scheduled examinations.
 Final examinations can either be comprehensive, covering all course materials, or non-comprehensive, covering 
only a part of the course.
POLICIES
1. All scheduled final examinations are held at the end of the semester during the university's official final examina
tion period. Comprehensive final examinations are not required for each course, but are given at the option of the 
department or instructor. The reading day and weekend preceding the examination days shall never be used for 
examination purposes of any kind, unless a student opts to. take a self-scheduled examination during this time. Noncomprehensive final examinations or final projects (but not both) are allowed during this final examination period 
only in courses that do not give a final comprehensive examination.
2. Instructors are expected to return all work assigned no later than 72 hours before the final examination in the 
course. In cases when this is not possible, an answer key, solution sets or equivalent feedback should be provided 
unless the final examination will not cover material in work that has not been returned.
3. No other course work, including laboratory or studio work, will be due during the final examination period unless 
it is assigned in advance and in lieu of the course's final examination. Regardless of whether there is a final exami
7. Students are expected to present themselves at the place assigned at the start of the examination; late arrival will 
reduce the total time a student has to complete the examination, unless instructor's course policy indicates otherwise. 
Instructors reserve the right to require attendance within a specific time period. Students who miss an examination 
with a reasonable excuse and wish to petition for a make-up final examination should check with the instructor. 
Instructors are encouraged to include late arrival policy and make-up exam policy in the course syllabus.
8. Any student shall be permitted to review his or her corrected, graded final examination in the presence of an 
instructor or a teaching assistant. Any controversy arising from this review shall be dealt with in accordance with the 
university procedure for the appeal of grades and academic actions. A final examination which is not returned to a 
student will be kept available for a year for review. In the event that the instructor or teaching assistant is not available 
for the review, the responsibility shall rest with the department head of the instructor offering the course or his or her 
designee. Since instructors are expected to return all work assigned before the final examinations, they are not 
responsible for retaining unclaimed course work.
9. Concerns related to final examination, complaints about violations of the final examination policy or alterations of 
the final examination schedule should be directed to the department head of the instructor offering the course or to 
the associate dean of the student's home college.
CONTACT
Questions concerning this policy or its intent should be directed to: Edmond Ko, Vice Provost for Education, x8- 
5865.
BEFOFREDUO IDENGDNA
03121MODERN BIOLOGYThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pm
03240CELL BIOLOGYTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 am
03330GENETICSTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
03380VIROLOGYMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 am
03439INTRO TO BIOPHYSICSMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pm
TCaUG UGr nFaeCgNi MGgNiUDgEFG
05610-88368INTRO TO HCIThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
05630PRGMG USABLE INTFCEMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 am
05631SFTWR ARC USR INTRFCTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
nlNaEDUO oGREGNNiEGR
06100INTRO TO CHEM ENGRMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
06151THERMODYNAMICSFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pm
06201PRINC TRANS PROC IIMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
06204CHEM ENGR THERMOTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pm
06301CHEM ENGR KINETICSTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pm
06302PROC ENGR & SYNTHThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
06609-09509PHYS CHEM MACROMOLMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 am
06703ADV FLUID DYNAMICSTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 am
06713MATH TECH CHEM ENGRMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 am
06717-42709-42609BIOTECHNLGY ENV PROCTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pm
nlNaEAgiv
09103ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNGTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
09105INTROD MODERN CHEMTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pm
09106MODERN CHEMISTRY IIThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pm
09117ORGANIC CHEMISTRY ITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pm
09131LAB I: INTR CHMYANLMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
09206PHYS PRIN ANALY CHEMTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pm
09244QUAN PRINC PHY CHEMTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pm
09248INORGANIC CHEMISTRYFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
09509-06609PHYS CHEM MACROMOLMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 am
sUGRCURN tNDlGFOFRv MGAgEgCgN
11511-11711ALGORITHMS FOR NLPThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
11591-11791SE FOR LT PRINC IMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 am
11711-11511ALGORITHMS FOR NLPThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
11791-11591SE FOR LT PRINC IMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 am
nEyEO wGr oGyEiFGaNGgUO oGREGNNiEGR
12100INTRO CIV & ENV ENGThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pm
12251INTRO ENVIR ENGINThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
12271IN CO AP CIV ENV ENGMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
12331SOLID MECHANICSMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pm
12411ENGINEERNG ECONOMICSFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pm
12611PROJCT MNGMNT CONSTRThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
12631STRUCTURAL DESIGNMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 am
12651-42651AIR QUALITY ENGINRNGTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
12704PR EST MTHD ENG SYSThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pm
12706-73359BENEFIT-COST ANALYThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pm
12720WATER RESOURCE CHEMTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
12740CAE TOOLFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
nFaeCgNi IDENGDN
15129PRGMG & MODN MATHFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
15211FUND STRUC CMP SC IFri.Dec.128:30 am12:30 pm
15212 Lee. 1FUND STRC CMP SC IIFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
15212 Lee. 2FUND STRC CMP SC IIFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
15312PROG LANG DES PROCMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 am
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pm
15384ROBOTIC MANIPULATIONMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
15413SOFTWARE ENGINEERNGMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 am
15451 Sect. AALGORITHMSFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
15451 Sect. BALGORITHMSFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pm
15453FRM LANG & AUTOMATAMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pm
15462COMPUTER GRAPHICS ITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pm
15540-18849-39648SPTPCS COMP ENGTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 am
15671MODEL SOFTWARE SYSFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pm
15673MNGNG SFTWR DVELPMNTMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pm
15681MACHINE LEARNINGTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pm
15711PROGRAMNG LANGUAGESMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
15712SOFTWARE SYSTEMSWed.Dec.101:00 pm4:00 pm
15740COMPUTER SYSTEMSTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pm
15829SP TPCS IN SFTWR SYSMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pm
oONDgiEDUO wGr nFaeCgNi oGREGNNiEGR
18100INTRO ELEC COMP ENGRThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pm
18200MATH FONDTON ELE ENGTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 am
18220FUND OF ELEC ENGRThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pm
18240FUNDOFCOMPUT ENGRMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pm
UC McConomy Aud. 
DH 2315 
BH 136A 
PH A18A 
DH 1209
PH 100 & PH 125B 
WEH 8427 
SH 324
WEH 7500 
BH 136A 
DH 1212 
DH 1212 
BH 136A 
DH 1212 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
DH A317 
DH 2105
PH 100 & PH 125C 
DH 2210,2315 & 2200 
DH 1112
UC McConomy Aud. 
DH 2210 
DH 1112 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
DH 1112
DH 1209 
DH 2105 
DH 1209 
DH 2105
DH 1212 
DH 1112 
DH 1112 
DH 1212 
DH 1112 
PH A18B 
PH126A 
DH 2122 
DH A317 
WEH 5403 
PH A22 
PH A18A
WEH 5419A & B 
DH 2210 & 2315 
UC McConomy Aud. 
DH 2315 
MM 103 
WEH 7500 
SH 125
MM 103 & A14 
BH 136A 
HHB103 
SH 125 
PH125C
18304ENGR ELECTROMAG IIMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amSH 220 .
18312SEMICOND DEVICES IIMon!Dec.158:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
18322ANAL/DES DGTLCIRCMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2315
18347INTRO TO COMPUTARCHTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amDH 2210
18370FNDMNTLS OF CONTROLThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18C
18396SIGNALS AND SYSTEMSFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100
18482-19402-19712TELCOM TCH POL & MGTTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmBH 355
18483-19430CIV/MIL AP OF SPACEMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmSH 224
18715PHYS OF APPL MGNTSMMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amSH 324
18748DEPEND SYSTEM DESIGNMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmSH 422
18765DIG SYS TST & TST DSThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amHH B131
18791DGTL SIGNAL PROC IThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmHH B103
18819S TP SOLID STATE DEVFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmSH 224
18849-39648-15540SPTPCS COMP ENGTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
18859SPEC TPC COMMUNICTNSMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amHH B131
oGREGNNiEGR wGr !ChOED !FOEDv
19101INTRO ENGR & PUB POLFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmPH A18C
19402-19712-18482TELCOM TCH POL & MGTTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmBH 355
19425-19725GLEN CHG:CHA WHOLSMMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH 126A
19430-18483CIV/MIL AP OF SPACEMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmSH 224
19444-19744TECHNOLOGY TRANSFERMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmPh A22
19530FORCE & STATECRAFTFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmPH 126A
19704DYNMIC SYS POLANLYSThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amPH 125B
19712-19402-18482TELCOM TCH POL & MGTTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmBH 355
19725-19425GLEN CHG:CHAWHOLSMMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH126A
19744-19444TECHNOLOGY TRANSFERMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmPH A22-
cUglNaUgEDA
21101
21105
21106 
21111 
21112
21127
21131
21228
21241
21256
21257
21259
21260
21300
21301 
21341 
21355 
21369 
21371 
21373 
21393
FR MTH:FIN DFEQ MDLMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1211
PRE-CALCULUSMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amHH B103
TOPICS PRE CALCULUSMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2105
CALC HUMANITIES IMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2315
ICALC HUMANITIES IIMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amDH 1112
I Lee. 1CALCULUS 1Mon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amUC McConomy Aud.
I Lee. 2CALCULUS 1Mon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amDH 2315
I Lee. 3CALCULUS 1Mon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amWEH 7500
I Lee. 5CALCULUS 1Mon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amMM103&A14
! Lee. 1CALCULUS 2Tues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amDH 2210 & 2315 '
 Lee. 2CALCULUS 2Tues..Dec.98:30 am11:30 amDH 1212 & 1211>INTRO TO MDRN MATHMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210 & 2315
ANALYSIS ITues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
)DISCRETE MATHMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amDH 2210
MATRIX ALGEBRAMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
MULTI ANLYSIS APPROXMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amUC McConomy Aud.fMODL METH OPTIMIZATNMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmUC McConomy Aud.
)CALCULUS IN 3-DMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amDH 2210 & 2315
)DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSMon.Dec.15. 5:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210 & 2315
1-21600MATH LOGIC IMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
COMBINATORIAL ANALYTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amPH A18A
LINEAR ALGEBRATues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amSH 125
ADVANCED CALCULUS IMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 7500
)NUMERICAL METHODSThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmBH 136A
FUNC CMPLX VARIABLEMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 8427
5ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURESThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2105
iOPERATIONS RS.CH IIFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmSH 422
J-21300MATH LOGIC IMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
1-21803MODEL THEORY IThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 2122
i-21603MODEL THEORY IThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 2122
cNDlUGEDUO oGREGNNiEGR
24208-24789
24221
24227
24311
24322
24323
24789T-24208
MANUFACTUR SCIENCESTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amSH 125
THERMODYNAMICS IMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amHH B103&B131
INTRNL COMB ENGINESMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmHH B131
NUMERICAL METHODSMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amSH 125
HEAT TRANSFERFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmSH 125
THERMODYNAMICS IIThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmSH 206
MANUFACTUR SCIENCESTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amSH 125
cUgNiEUOA IDENGDNA wGr oGREGNNiEGR
BH 136A27100MATERIALS IN ENGRTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
WEH 540327201STRUCTRE OF MATERLSTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amDH A317
WEH 540327304MAT SCI ENGIN LAB IIMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2105-
WEH 750027311PHASE RELATIONSTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amDH 2122
WEH 750027357INTRO TO MATLS SELECMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amDH 1212
WEH 540927421-27721PROCESSING DESIGNMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH 226B
WEH 540927432ELEC MAG OPT PR MAGSThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 8427
WEH 540927441DEFORM/FRAC OF MTRLSThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amWEH 8427
WEH 842727512DIFFRCTN MTH MAT SCIFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amDH 1209
27721-27421PROCESSING DESIGNMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH 226B
27760PHYS CHEM MET REACTThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2105
27765SP TOP: COMPSIM MSETues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amWEH 8427
DH 221027778MATHEMATICAL METHODSFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 6423
WEH 7500 & 842727779BOND/CRYSTLS/DEFECTSFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amDH A317
DH 231527780THERMODYNAMICSTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 5403
UC McConomy Aud.

---------------------------------------------------

!lvAEDA
33106PHYSICS ENGR STUD ITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210 & 2315
33107PHYSICS ENGR STUD IITues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amUC McConomyAud.
33111 Lee. 1PHYSICS SCI STUD IMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1212
33111 Lee. 2PHYSICS SCI STUD IMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomyAud.
33112PHYSICS SCI STDNTS IIMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
33115INTRODUCT PHYSICSFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2210
33211PHYS III: MOD ESSENTTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1212
33225QUANTM PHY STRUC MATTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmDH A317
33232.PHYSICAL ANALYSISMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH 125C
33241INTR CMPTNL PHYSICSTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
33331PHYSCL MECHANICS ITues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmHH B103
33341THERMAL PHYSICS IMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423
33345MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYSThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7316
33439INT ELEC & MAGNET IIFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
33445ADV QUANTUM PHYSICS ITues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amWEH 7316
33453INTERMEDIATE OPTICSTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 8427
33467INTRO TO ASTROPHYSThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amWEH 6423
33755QUANTUM MECHANICS IThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 6423
33757CLASSICAL MECHANICSMon.Dec.158:30 am12:30 pmWEH 8427
33759INTRO THEO PHYS IThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423
33761CLASSCLELCTRODYN IFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423
33777INTRODTY ASTRPHYSICSFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amMI 448
33779INTR NUC PRTCL PHYSMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 8427
33783THEORY OF SOLIDS ITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 6423
IgUgEAgEDA
36201STATISTCL REASONINGThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210& 2315
36202INTRO STAT METHODSThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmMM103&A14
36207-70207PROB & STAT BUS APPLTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amPH 100
36217PROB THEO RNOM PROCThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmHH B103&B131
36220ENGR STAT QUAL CTRLFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
36225INTRO PROB & STAT ITues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amHH B103&B131
36309-36749EXDESBEHASOC SCIFri.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5419 A.B.C.D
36325PROB & MATH STAT IMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amBH 255A
36705INTERMEO STATISTICSTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmBH 237B
36743STAT BEHAV SOC SCITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18C
36749-36309EXDESBEHASOC SCIFri.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5419 A.B.C.D
nMt MGgNirEADEeOEGUiv
39648-15540-18849 SP TPCS COMP ENG -Tues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
BEFaNrEDUOoGREGNNiEGR
42100BIOMED ENGR SEMINARFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
42377-42777REHABILITATION ENGNGThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 1209
42395-42795SENS PR PERC PSYCHOThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 2105
42500-42735PHYSIOLOGYMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1212
42609-42709-06717BIOTECHNLGY ENV PROCTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2105
42651-12651AIR QUALITY ENGINRNGTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amDH 2122
42709-42609-06717BIOTECHNLGY ENV PROCTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2105
42735-42500PHYSIOLOGYMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmDH 1212
42777-42377REHABILITATION ENGNGThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH1209
42795-42395SENS PR PERC PSYCHOThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 2105
wiDlEgNDgCiN
48210STATICSMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmHH B103&B131
48240-79227HIS SRVY WLD ARC URBMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmMMA14
48310STRUCTURESThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amMMA14
48317SITE ENGIN FOUNDATNTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amDH 1112
48340-79228AMER BUILT ENV PTIMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 211
48341ASIAN ARCHITECTURETues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amDH A317
fNAERG
51173HISTORY OF ARTMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmMM 103
51265BEGIN PHOTOGRAPHYThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 211
fiUaU
54785-54885COLLOQUIUMFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 211
54885-54785COLLOQUIUMFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmCFA 211
cCAED
57151 Sect. A16TH CENT COUNTRPNTFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amCFA M160
57151 Sect. B16TH CENT COUNTRPNTFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amCFA M157
57152HARMONY ITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmCFAM157
57153 Sect. AHARMONY IIMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmCFA M160
57153 Sect. BHARMONY IIMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmCFA M157
57257ORCHESTRATION IMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmMM 116
57332INTRO TO CONDUCTINGTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amCFA M157
57334-57834FUND MARCHING BANDMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amCFA M157
57360-57860BRASS METHODSMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmMM 119
57376-57876MUSIC SEC SCHOOLTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmCFA M157
57457JAZZ HISTORY IThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amCFA M160
57459SC RDG KYBD HARM IThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmMM 116
57834-57334FUND MARCHING BANDMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amCFA M157
57860-57360BRASS METHODSMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmMM 119
57876-57376MUSIC SEC SCHOOLTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmCFA M157
57893INTRO TO CONDUCTINGFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amCFA 211
wig
60357-79321PICASO & 20C ARTFri,Dec.-121:00 pm2:30 pmDH 1217
60365-79322ITAL RENAISSANCE ARTMon.Dec.85:30 pm7:00 pmCFA 303
60375-79305REPRESNTG PAC CULTSMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amPH 225B
60376-79320-82417ART SOCIETY: MODRNSMTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmPH126A
T.II MGgNirEADEeOEGUiv
66250INTRO TO RELIGIONMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amBH 355
66315-79219HOLCST HIS PERSPECTVMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmPH A18C
MGrCAgiEUO cUGURNaNGg
70100INTRO TO BUSINESSTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amMM 103 & A14
70122INTRO TO ACCOUNTINGThurs.Dec.116:30 pm9:30 pmUC McConomyAud.
70160INTR GRA CMNCTNS IThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 5403
70207-36207PROB & STAT BUS APPLTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amPH 100
70300-73300INTERMED MACRECONTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amPH A18A.B&C
70332BUSINESS & SOCIETYThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amWEH 7500
70340BUSINESS COMMUNCTNSMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
70341-88341ORG COMMTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amBH 255A
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmHH B103
70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amPH A18A
70365INT TRADE & INT LAWMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amPH125C
70371PRODUCTION IMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2210 & 2200
70381 Lec.1MARKETING ITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
70381 Lec.2MARKETING ITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
70391FINANCE IMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmUC McConomyAud.
70422COST ACCOUNTINGMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amBH 237B
70440BUS LDRSHP & STRATGFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
70456TELECOM & NTWRK MGMTFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amSH 220
70483MARKETNG COMMNCTIONThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amHBH1004
70495CORPORATE FINANCEMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amWEH 5403
70497OPTIONSFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amHH B103
70520PUBLICITY & PUB RELTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmBH 235B
70640EMRGNG GRAPHC TECHNLThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmDH 1211
oDFGFaEDA
73100PRINC OF ECONOMICSFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmDH 2210 & 2315
73248ENVIRONMENTAL ECONMCMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmSH 220
73250INTERMED MICROECONTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmUC McConomyAud.
73260ECONOMETRICS IMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmBH 136A
73300-70300INTERMED MACRECONTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amPH A18A.B&C
73340LABOR ECONOMICSMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amDH A317
73343-88343-88743ECONOFTECH CHANGETues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amBH 237B
73359-12706BENEFIT-COST ANALYThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmWEH 5403
73360ECONOMETRICS IIThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmHHB131
73365INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmBH 255A
73371INTNAT TRADE ECO DEVThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 1112
73458MONEY AND BANKINGTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amBH 136A
oGROEAl
76201CULT PRAC & LIT PRODMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH A18A
76233THE EPIC: GODS & MENMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmBH 235A
76238MEETING GREAT BOOKSMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmBH 255B
76245SHAKESPEARETues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmSH 206
76294INTERPRETIVE PRACTCSThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
76336IRISH WRITERSFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amBH 235B
76345SOCIAL NOVELTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amPH 225B
76371LANGUAGE IN DESIGNFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmPH A23A
76372INTRO TO JOURNALISMMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amDH 2122
76390STYLEFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmBH 235B
76395-76795SCIENCE WRITINGFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmPH 126C
76396-76796WRIT & PUB INTERESTMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmPHA18A
76434-76834ANARCHY & CULTURETues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmBH 237B
76445-82445US LATINO LITERTREMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18C
76789GRAMMAR ST WRIT ENGMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amBH 235B
76795-76395SCIENCE WRITINGFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmPH 126C
76796-76396WRIT & PUB INTERESTMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30. pmPH A18A
76834-76434ANARCHY & CULTURETues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmBH 237B
76859MARXISMSTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amPH A21
76881HSTRY OF RHETORIC IITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmBH 235A
TEAgFiv
79104 Sect AA.Y ,ZINTRO WORLD HISTORYThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amPH 100
79104 Lee. 1INTRO WORLD HISTORYThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amDH 2210,2315 & 2200
79104 Lec.2INTRO WORLD HISTORY Thurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amUC McConomy Aud.
79200HISTORY WORKSHOPMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmPH100&126A
79219-66315HOLCST HIS PERSPECTVMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmPH A18C
79221RELGN EURPN SOCIETYMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmSH 125
79224FIWWIIIGI DECWATues.D'ec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH 226A
79227-48240HIS SRVY WLD ARC URBMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmMMA14
79228-48340AMER BUILT ENV PTIMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmCFA 211
79230TECHNLGY AMER SOCTYFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amPH 100
79280RUS HIS FRST LSTTSRMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmBH 255A
79305-60375REPRESNTG PAC CULTSMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amPH 225B
79320-82417-60376ART SOCIETY: MODRNSMTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmPH 126A
79321-60357PICASO & 20C ARTFri.Dec.121:00 pm2:30 pmDH 1217
79322-60365ITAL RENAISSANCE ARTMon.Dec.85:30 pm7:00 pmCFA 303
79331CRIME & PUNISHMENTThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amSH 220
79341WAR & TECHNOLOGYFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amPH 100
79353CONTPYLATAMER POLCTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmPH 226A
79362AMERICAN URBAN HISTYFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amBH 254A
79378MARRIAGE DIV FAMILYMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmPH 226A
!lEOFAFelv
80101FR SM:MATHMTC CONTXTTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amPH 226C
80135INTRO POLITC PHILOSTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmMMA14
80136SOC STR PB POL ET DLTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amHHB103&B131
80150NATURE OF REASONTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmUC McConomy Aud.
80180NATURE OF LANGUAGEFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmMM 103
80210INTRODUCTN TO LOGICMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmBH 136A
80300-80600MINDS MACH KNOWLEDGThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amPH A18B
80310-80610LOGIC COMPUTBLTYIMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmPH 126A
80415-80715INTRO CATEGRY THEORYMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPHA22
80600-80300MINDS MACH KNOWLEDGThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amPH A18B
80610-80310LOGIC COMPUTBLTY IMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmPH126A
80715-80415INTRO CATEGRY THEORYMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH A22
cFrNiG sUGRCURNA
82103SELF-PACED FRENCHThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amBH 235A
82121ELEMENTARY GERMAN ITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmHH B131
82123SELF-PACED GERMANFri.Dec.125:30 pm8:30 pmBH231A
82131EL MANDARIN CHINESEFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amWEH 7500
82141ELEMENTARY SPANISH ITues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmMM 103
82142ELEM SPANISH IITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH 226C
82161 Sect A & CELEMENTARY ITALIAN IMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amSH 125
82161 Sect BELEMENTARY ITALIAN ITues.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18A
82171ELEM JAPANESE ITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100
82184BIRTH & DEATH TRAGDYTues.Dec.168:30 am11:30 amBH 235B
82191ELEM RUSSIAN IMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmBH 355
82231INTERMED CHINESE IFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmWEH 7500
82241INTERMED SPANISH IMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmSH 125
82242INTERMED SPANISH IITues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmBH 235B
82261INTERMED ITALIAN IFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amBH 231A
82271INTERMED JAPANESE ITues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amSH 212 & SH 220
82291INTERMEDIATE RUSSIANFri.Dec.121:00 pm4:00 pmPh A19
82325INTRO GERMAN STUDIESMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmPH A21
82344US HISP.HIS LAN CU CTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18A
823713RD YEAR JAPANESETues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amBH 235B
82391ADVANCED RUSSIANTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmBH 231A
82399SPEC TOPICS RUSSIANThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmPH A19C
82417-60376-79320ART SOCIETY: MODRNSMTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmPH126A
82429GERMAN LIT 19TH CMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmBH 235A
82445-76445US LATINO LITERTREMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18C
!AvDlFOFRv
85100COG PROC THEO PRACTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmDH 2210,2315 & 2200
85111SELF-PACED LISP LABMon.Dec.155:30 pm8:30 pmPH A18A
85120GENERAL PROGRAMMINGThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmSH 125
85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYMon.Dec.151:00 pm4:00 pmHH B103&B131
85213INFO PR PSY ART INTThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amHH B103
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTTues.Dec.161:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
85310RSCH MTHD COG PSYMon.Dec.85:30 pm8:30 pmBH 235B
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYThurs.Dec.118:30 am11:30 amBH 136A
85380HIST DEV EXP PSYCHTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pfaPH 226A
85411-85711COG PROC PROB SOLVTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmMMA14
85423-85723COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amf >BH 255A
85444-85744INTRPRSNL RELATNSHPTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH 226B
85711-85411COG PROC PROB SOLVTues.Dec.91:00 pm4:00 pmMMA14
85723-85423COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amBH 255A
85744-85444INTRPRSNL RELATNSHPTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmPH 226B
IFDEUO wGrfNDEAEFG IDENGDNA
88104DEC PROC AMER POLINFri.Dec.128:30 am11:30 amUC McConomy Aud.
88200DATABASE MNGMNT SYSMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amPH 100
88220POLICY ANALYSIS IThurs.Dec.111:00 pm4:00 pmPH 100
88240EMPIRCL RSCH METH IMon.Dec.88:30 am11:30 amPH 100
88260ORGANIZATIONSMon.Dec.81:00 pm4:00 pmMM103&A14
88321CAMPAIGNS/ELECTIONSMon.Dec.158:30 am11:30 amBH 235B
88341-70341ORG COMMTues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amBH 255A
88343-88743-73343ECON OF TECH CHANGETues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amBH 237B
88368-05610INTRO TO HCIThurs.Dec.115:30 pm8:30 pmPH 100 & PH 125B
88366SOC ISSUES COMPUTNGTues.Dec.95:30 pm8:30 pmSH 125
88743-88343-73343ECON OF TECH CHANGETues.Dec.98:30 am11:30 amBH 237B

---------------------------------------------------

4 SBC Warburg Dillon Read
11Your Key to Opportunity.1I111111
Changing the Face 
of Investment 
Banking
As a world leader among financial institutions, SBC Warburg Dillon Read has opportunities for students interested in joining an organization that has built its franchise as the investment bank of choice, meeting the global banking needs of our clients.
We cordially invite the students of 
Carnegie Mellon University to learn 
more about our global 
opportunities on:
Monday, October 6, 1997
4:30PM 
Porter Hall 
Room A18A
Visit our website at: www.sbcwarburg.com
SBC Warburg Dillon Read is a subsidiary of Swiss Bank Corporation 
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT TRAVEL
STA Travel... 
the worlds largest 
student travel organization._S71
STA TRAVEL
bufgu yuu2 9lueuA
INTERNATIONAL COMPANY SEEKING FOR
EIGN CONSULTANTS/BUSINESS EXPERTS 
TO ASSIST IN OVERSEAS MARKETING. 
SEEKING CANDIDATES WITH TECHNICAL 
BACKGROUND/EDUCATION FOCUSING ON 
APPLICATION OF HARD SCIENCES RATHER 
THAN THEORETICAL RESEARCH. WE ARE 
SEEKING CANDIDATES WITH NATIVE FLU
ENCY IN CHINESE, RUSSIAN OR MIDDLE 
EASTERN LANGUAGES AND CONTACTS IN 
HOME COUNTRY. ALL QUALIFIED CANDI
DATES WILL BE CONSIDERED. PLEASE 
SEND RESUME AND STATEMENT OF EXPE
RIENCE TO:
ere Bellcore, the Innovator in Telecommunications 
who is dishing up today's hottest technological 
solutions for the Telecommunications industry. If 
you're pursuing an undergraduate or graduate 
degree in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, 
Computer Engineering, Systems Engineering, Industrial 
Engineering, Operations Research, Business, Math or 
Technical Communications, attend our on-campus 
recruiting session to find out about the hot 
. opportunities for you at Bellcore. This is your 
lllk era to join us in revolutionizing global 
Telecommunications...again.
PLACEMENTS 
P.O. BOX 99514-0 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15233
*ON-CAMPUS
RECRUITING
SESSIONWe'll savor your fresh perspective. And wait 
'til you get a taste of our unmatched exper
tise and incredible growth. The future is what 
we make it, together. Right here. Right now.
For more information on Bellcore, or to apply 
on-line, check us out at www.bellcore.com. 
We are an equal opportunity employer.? CONTACT YOTR 
PS A.CEAAE NT
L ettroh Ee
SCHEDULE 
;  1T1 R VI EW.
STATravel offers student discounts on
domestic travel, too.www.sta-travel.com
September 6 
September 13 
September 20 
September 27 
October 4
OUTBOUND from University Center to Monroeville Mall
October 11
INBOUND from Monroeville Mall to University Center
11;00 p.m. (Arrival only)

---------------------------------------------------

IT roles in global investment banking
No-one should underestimate what it will take to become 
one of the dominant players in the global investment 
banking market of the 21st century.
No-one should underestimate the absolute seriousness with 
which we're setting out to achieve that goal.
Our strategy hinges on pushing the power of information 
technology out from our domain into that of our customers
- giving our clients tools with which to make decisions on 
their overall risk management. Such an approach will lower 
the total cost of using derivatives in advanced strategies 
by bringing to bear the power of mathematics and leading 
edge technology.
We have total commitment from the banks most senior people, 
backed by massive investment - but they will be seeking 
early evidence of significant progress.
We have a mandate to think the unthinkable, subject only to 
the guiding principle of adding substantial, visible value.
Our IT team has a new nucleus of exceptionally talented 
individuals who already have an unrivalled reputation in 
developing radical banking IT solutions. They urgently seek 
new colleagues - based in London or in other financial 
centres across the world - who want to make their own 
reputations. People who are top-flight graduates and whose 
IT careers to date have already demonstrated the potential 
for outstanding achievement. Specifically, we need people 
who are already highly proficient in any of these areas -
or who could quickly become so in a company where 
training and development is high on everyones agenda.
Fully distributed global OO systems
Electronic commerce
Leading-edge risk management approaches
Advanced mathematics
Visual Studio, C++, ActiveX, Java, DCOM, CORBA, HOP, 
Orbix, Versant.
For a programme of such far-reaching, fundamental change, 
technical competence - even brilliance - is not enough. 
Because with our new focus on the ultimate customer, you 
need to be credible with top client management, and to 
make your proposals and ideas as clear to them as they 
are to you. You also need an exceptional and original 
intellect, the stamina to thrive on punishing workloads, 
and the desire to do things with new technology that have 
not been done before.
Software engineers, applications developers, systems 
architects - whatever you aim to be and whatever salary 
expectation you may have, we expect to better it.
Send your c.v., quoting ref: T/01, to Saralie Nelson, Kleinwort 
Benson Limited, London. Fax: +44 (0) 171 956 8464. 
e-mail: nelsons@kben.co.uk
Kleinwort Benson Limited is a member of the Dresdner Bank Group.
The Pittsburgh Oratory
John Henry Cardinal Newman Lecture Series
"Prophetic Witness: Then and Nov/'
Marilyn Schaub, Ph.D.
Professor of Biblical Studies 
Duquesne University
An examination of classical Israelite prophecy 
shows it was characterized both by strong 
protests against social abuses, power politics, 
and religious hypocrisy, and by an urgent 
call to return to the roots of the Israelite 
faith. The presentation will focus on the 
prominent theological themes which typified 
the Old Testament prophets as they sought 
to remain faithful to God's word by making 
it a word heard in their day. It will conclude 
with a consideration of some implications of 
this study for prophetic witness in our day.
Friday, October 17,1997, 
7:30 P.M. to 8:30 P.M. 
at The Oratory, Ryan Catholic Newman Center
R.S.V.P. to 681-3181 by Wednesday, October 15,1997
Discussion and light refreshments will follow.Join us. We look forward to your participation.
The Pittsburgh Oratory4450 Bavard Street Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (Oakland)
felot
about a 
foreign idea.
Learn about exciting Foreign 
Service careers and student 
employment programs when we 
come to Carnegie Mellon 
University.
Tuesday, October 7 
7:00 pm - 9:00 pm 
Doherty Hall 
Room 2210
To experience all that the world 
has to offer, you first need to take 
the Foreign Service Exam on 
February 28, 1998.
Exam registration booklets and 
student internship applications 
will be available at.the session, or 
by writing:
US Department of State
PO Box 9317- CMU 
Arlington, VA 22219
Visit our Web site at: 
http://www.state.gov
An equal 
opportunity 
employer. -iss
^ITES C*
THF MOST INTERESTING WORK . IN THE WORLD
LECTRICAL ENGINEERING  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING  MATH
TAKE TECHNOLOGY
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. 
And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon.
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower - together, 
Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon 
Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking 
for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new 
ground. Make their mark.
At Raytheon you'll take technology - and your career - to 
the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be 
visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office 
now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at 
www.rayjobs.com.
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 8, 1997. 
CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW.
Internet: www.rayjobs.com  E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.Raytheon
TartnE ditoE E-Chde
This spring, join TOlir d6 ClirBone of the biggest diSbBtBS 
fundraising events in history.
Ride and raise money to fight 
this deadly disease.
a cycling event ofA
 American Diabetes .Association.TourCure
Sign up today, call
1-800-T0UR-888
(1-800-868-7888)
or visit us at 
www.diabetes.org/tour

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSdN
Sports personalities swap shows, cause scandals
Lifes a Sport
by Chris Cannon
As many of you know, a great transi
tion happened on July 1 of this past 
summer. Robert Mehrabian passing the 
torch to Jared Cohen? Nope. Hong Kong 
going back to China? Try again. How 
about Keith Olbermann leaving ESPNs 
nightly Sportscenter show? Bingo.
If you havent noticed the drop-off in 
humor from what was TVs funniest live 
show (including Saturday Night Live), 
its because Olbermann has hopped from 
the Disney-ABC-ESPN media-conglom
erate to the MSNBC version of media for 
the masses. Monday through Friday, 8- 
9 pm ET you too can see what the man 
who brought us Its deep and I dont 
think its playable, From way down
town, and Guh! is up to.
Keith Olbermanns The Big Show (a 
name that for
merly be
longed to his 
Sportscenter 
show) is ad
vertised as a 
newscast with 
a different set 
of rules!
So what new lev
els of journal
ism is the guy 
who never 
failed to an
nounce Dick 
Trickles 
NASCAR 
finish 
bringing 
to us?
Theres 
last 
Thursdays 
episode, 
where hetalked to a Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
Internet, Internet, and more Internet, 
with some Chelsea Clinton thrown in-for 
good measure. 
(Note to Mr. 
Olbberihann: 
you were 
good at 
sports.)
Thursday at 11 p.m. ET and PT. Kilborns 
sometimes even funnier than Olbermann 
and always meaner. Be sure to tune in 
Wednesday, when Janeane Garofalo is 
on. Garofalo and Kilborn have some spe
cial spark going on.
Speaking of announcers leaving net
works, its time to mention Marv. No 
base wig-jokes here, I want to discuss 
bites. Only in the world of sports can 
Mike Tyson be fined $3 million for two 
bites and Marv Albert $2,500 for at
For Olbermann, one of few sportscas]ters whos even spoken marginally 
against Albert, it might mean another 
job. Is there a law of conservation of 
sports announcers at NBC? Is this, an 
invasion of Sportscenter anchors into 
real news? Will Olbermann, like Horig 
Kong, be given back in 99 years? Or 
will Olbermann one day reveal himself 
to be a biting tranvestite when his 
lover doesnt bring a third for a good 
old three-some? As Mr. Olbermann
Only in the world of sports can Mike 
Tyson be fined $3 million for two bites 
and Marv Albert $2,500 for at least 17.
woman who was divorced for spending 
16 hours a day on the Internet. 
Olbermann seems to be focusing on the
Olbermann, 
whos hu
mor runs 
from Monty Py
thon to Woodie 
Allen, with many 
pit stops in-between, 
isnt the first sportscaster to leave ESPN. 
Former sportscaster Craig
Kilborn left two years ago for the greener 
pastures of Comedy Central and now 
hosts The Daily Show Monday through
least 17 distinct impressions on the skin. 
At 850 percent the number of bites for 1/ 
1200 the price, Marv got a lot more 
utility out of his munches.
Whats worse is how big media has 
treated the two cases. Tyson was front 
page news, but some magazines, nota
bly the National Enquirer, have refused 
to run stories on Albert.
What does this mean for announc
ers, who arent exactly new to scandal 
(Frank Gifford) or sex (Frank Gifford)?
likes to say, Its deep and I donjt 
think its playable.
Chris Cannon is a senior computer 
science major. Web casts of Keith 
Olbermanns show are available at: \ 
http://www.msnbc.com/newfe/ 
BIGSHOW_front.asp via Microsofts 
NetShow media player.
He thinks that those guys up at 
Microsoft behind NetShow must be\a 
bunch of geniuses.
Tartans win three tourney games
WIN, from page 16
never give up in our quest to win 
a match.
But Saturday, the gel that Webb 
has been waiting for all season 
had finally set. The team beat La 
Roche College for their first win, 
15-6,15-7, and 15-9. Each point 
was hard-fought, and in the last 
set, much celebrated over, as the 
women sensed their first victory 
at hand.
The bigger and stronger 
Bethany College forced the Tar
tans to work harder than the pre
vious team, but sophomore out
side hitter Ashley Kinsey took 
the defense to the floor digging 
hard to keep the ball in the air. 
Webb made smart substitutions, 
resting her starters with reserves, 
including sophomore Rachelle 
Abati, who stepped into play cold 
and pounded away.
CMU took two sets 15-7 and 
15-9, but lost the next two 6-15 
and 12-15. After almost two hours 
of play, the final set went to rally 
points where every play counted 
as points regardless of serve. 
CMU won 15-6, sealing their top 
spot in their pool and moving 
them on to play the second-place 
team in the opposite pool, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh-Johnstown.
Weve been playing like this 
all year, weve just played some 
really tough teams  and we 
could hang with them, but this 
is great, said assistant coach 
Patti Bruno.
With little rest between 
matches, CMU came out swing
ing; led by captain Brittany 
Rutter and Sekowski, the team 
beat up on UPJ15-8. The second 
set displayed team chemistry as 
they found UPJs 6-foot-tall 
middle player needed to be 
double-teamed. Szobota and 5'4" 
Putaro quickly put her down, 
sending the ball back into UPJs 
face. When you get a really good 
pass and good set, you can really
pound the ball, said Szobota.
CMU found a hole left by 
UPJs disoriented 5'10" middle 
hitter, attacking her and forc
ing errors to take the second 
game 15-5. They closed out the 
set with some fancy finger-work 
around the net; rolling the ball 
towards th UPJ floor, CMU 
blocked the J attempts at 
power aiid held onto a crushing 
15-3 win.
Lycoming was a challenge in 
the championship round, not al
lowing the Tartans to keep pos
session of the ball long, as they 
had managed to do most of the 
day  forcing them to work for a 
side-out. The first game featured 
great volleys but Lycoming came 
out on top 15-13.
In the second set, Kinsey and 
junior captain Jenn Sutherland 
played strong, but the team fal
tered, losing 8-15. CMU couldnt 
stop the booming smack of 
Lycomings huge middle and out
side hitters any longer, losing 8- 
15 again.
Abati and Szobota credited the 
passing and strong defense with 
much of the strength on the day. 
D was awesome and passing was 
fantastic, said Szobota.
Its the first time that we have 
really played together and 
though [Lycoming] was a better 
team, we played our hardest, 
said Kinsey.
The Tartans face Carlow College 
at Carlow at 6 pm on Thursday.
vfviC-e. Vice |
Travel ______Council
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Avenue 
Pittsburgh 
(412) 683-1881
 ^TlTTf 11
c/nitz !
And The Tartan 
smiles with you.
%zoom:i
And you are 
running just 
about average.
Great 
Weekend Escapes
from MasterCard and United Airlines!
TVwa stt eim Ta paawag7 pFo bgFoa7 lFm1Fga6 lg7 Jaoumg Ta ei11irFgn yig7VM sm 
Tua67VM Ti Lao Sub6oVgoFV1 SVvFgn6 pag Yiu b6a Yium yV6oamCVm7" CVm7.
on,eSee how you can WIN FREE AIRFARE when 
you visit us at www.mastercard.com/college
No purchase or on-line entry necessary. To enter you must be a resident of the contiguous United States 
(excluding Florida) and enrolled in college as of 9/1/97. A drawing will be held for each of the seven months in 
which entries may be received: September 1997 through March 1998. To enter any month's drawing you must 
e-mail or postmark your entry by the last day of that month. To enter by mail send a postcard with your name 
and complete address to: MasterCard Great Weekend Escapes Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 9109. Medford. NY 
11763-9109. To obtain a copy of the complete rules see our web site (www.mastercard.com/college) or send . 
a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: MasterCard Great Weekend Escapes Sweepstakes. P.O. Box 1140,
Weekender Zone Fare CertificatePromo Code: AV0157 
Ticket Designator: AV0157 
Travel Complete: March 31,1998
Jiug7omFp JVoa6
WITHIN ZONE A 
WITHIN ZONE B 
WITHIN ZONE C 
WITHIN ZONE D 
BETWEEN ZONE A & B 
BETWEEN ZONE A & C 
BETWEEN ZONE A & D 
BETWEEN ZONE BSC 
BETWEEN ZONE BSD 
BETWEEN ZONE C & D
ROUNDTRIP SI68 
ROUNDTRIP S140 
ROUNDTRIP SI58 
ROUNDTRIP SUB 
ROUNDTRIP S188 
ROUNDTRIP S208 
ROUNDTRIP S288 
ROUNDTRIP S198 
ROUNDTRIP S238 
ROUNDTRIP S168
Use Your MasterCard Card For Great Savings On United Airlines.
To make reservations, call United at 1-800-241-6522 
or your travel professional.
Please reference Weekender Zone Fare Certificate AV0157.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
Promo Code: AV0157
Valid Carrier Umled Aidines. Shuttle by United, and/oc United Express. No codeshare 
Valid Routing: Roundtrip travel must begin and aid in the 48 conliguous Umled
connections via Chicano or Denver aie permitted All travel must be via ihe routes 
ol UA in which
iting/standby are not permitted C 
30.1S97 - Mar 1.1998
To enjoy Ihese low Weekender Zone Fares - plus earn Mileage Plus 
credit on your (rip - just call your travel professional or United lo 
reserve your flight and tedeem your certificate.
To receive these savings, use your MasterCarda card to purchase an 
E-Ticket^ between Augusl 30,1997 and March 1,1998 lor travel 
between Seplember 13.1997 and March 31.1998 Outbound travel 
good on flights departing on Saturday. Return travel good on flights return
ing the immediate Monday or Tuesday following departure.
Zone A - CT. DC. DE. FL, MA. MD. ME. NC. NH. NJ. NY, PA, Rl, SC. 
VA.VT.WV
Zone B - AL, AR, GA. IA, IN. KS. KY. Ml. M0. MS. NE. OH. TN. Wl 
Zone C - ID. LA, MN. MT, ND. NM. NV. OK, SD, TX. UT. WY 
Zone D - AZ. CA. OR, WA
Not valid for travel lo/from IL/C0/AK/HI.
Valid Ticket I
Valid Travel Dales: Sitf 13,1997 tnrough Mar 31. 
nxci be completed ty mklnic^t Ktar 31,15B8.
Blackout Dales: 1997: Nov22.25. Dec 1,20,29 1998 Jan 5. Mai 21,28 
Class ol Service: V class
Advance Purchase: V.VJiin 24 In ol making reservations, al Icasi 14 days prux to departure 
Mln/Max Stay: Saturday-night stay minimum Outbound.travel must be on flflhts depart
ing on Saturday mm tw.n war win mmuxak uohmy ch riiswr raiuwc ww 
Mileage Plus Accrual: Yes 
Ticketing: E-Ticketing only (eledionic ticketing service).
Taxes/Service Charges: Ail lees, taes and surcharges irduding Pasjager Farliy Charges 
(up lo $12) ae Ite regxrabliy ol Die passenga and trust be paid at lime ol Idling 
Certificate Restrictions: Certificate is required for discount and must be presented 
at lime ol ticketing Accepl otiginal certificate only Non-extendible, non-combinable 
with other air travel cerlilicales oi discount late oilers (Mileage Plus awards/ 
SilverWings awards/upgrades/companion/convenlion/group/tour/senior.cteen/ 
student/child/Round Ihe Wotld fares/travel package/travel industiy discount/ 
mililary/governmenl/joinl/inierline/wholesale/bulk) (lot transleiabie. nol replaceable  
il lost or stolen No cash value: may nol be sold or bartered. Protection lor flighi 
irregularities will be on United. Shuttle by Umled. and/or United Express (lights only
I 8 016 5000300069 7 I
Seals are capacity controlled and must be available in Ihe required booking inventory 
al Ihe lime reservations are confirmed. Discount applies lo new purchases only and 
will not be honored retroactively or in connection with Ihe exchange ol any wholly oi 
partially unused ticket One ticket per certificate redeemed Lower lares may be available in 
some markets.
Ticketing Restrictions: Tickets ate non-re!undabfe Change in origin or destination 
is nol permitted. Tickets MAY BE revalidated lor a S50 per ticket lee 
1997 WislciCard International Incorporated_____________________________
UAL AT0/CT0 see S*PMO/AV0157 
Agencies see S*PMA/AV0157
1. Treat as Type 'A' Discount Certificate
-Use Fare Basis Code: VE14NMCD
-Use Ticket Designator. AV0157
-Endorsement Box: VALID UA ONLY/Non-Ret/No Itin Changes
2. Refer to ARC Industry Agents' Handbook, section 6.0 lor details.
3. Failure to comply with promotion guidelines could result in debit memo.
xGEgNr
wEiOEGNA
1997 MastetCaid International Incorporated
-p

---------------------------------------------------

? Work side-by-side with the top management of Pittsburghs 
fastest growing companies
? Experience exponential personal and financial growth
? Travel... .if you want. Minimal to moderate travel
? Be part of a dynamic, entrepreneurial culture
? Work with the best and the brightest
? Join our hard-working, fun-loving team
To learn how to become part of the team at one of the world's 
fastest growing consulting organizations, come to our information
session: Tuesday, October 7,1997
7:00 p.m - 9:00 p.m.
Room 1112 Doherty Hall
wolumel o92,lI,9
Business Consulting
Focused on Making Pennsylvania Companies Great
GTslAtm.u SSd
October 7, 1997 
Rangos Ballroom 
3:30-7:00 pm<1? pah. cafe
Not Your Typical Job Fair...
@pgh.cafe is a social event where CMU students/faculty can meet 
with the project engineers and executives of local software, robotics,, 
and other high-tech companies to discuss technology development 
and career opportunities.
Admission is free and refreshments are provided!!
Sponsored by:
PITTSBURGH
HIGH TECHNOLOGY WWW.tC-p.COm/atpgh
COUNCIL
2000 Technology Drive 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
412/ 687-2700 
info@phtc.org
The Tartan is now hiring Assistant Editors for the Features and Sports sections.
Get paid to do writing and layout and help 
out the Editor. Pagemaker experience is pre
ferred. Email pb3S for more information.
Dont Miss Out Onm
mIyISilu IJ m-a61im Eli ili
Right Here in Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSd15
Atlanta Braves will win World Series once again
The Hot Corner
by Matt Cuccaro
Most of you baseball fans have seen so 
many playoff previews in the past week 
youll probably throw up if you see one 
more. Well, puke away kids, because heres 
another one! What I mean to say is that 
 here I am, simply offering to you my opinever pitching staff can be less miser
able. Andy Pettitte leads the Yankees 
staff, followed by an unhealthy Dave 
Cone, suspect David Wells, and, umm, 
Dwight Gooden. The Indians will un
fortunately depend on Orel Hershiser, 
Jaret Wright, and Charles Nagy. This 
borders on pathetic. However, both 
teams really know how to smack around 
the baseballs. Tino Martinez, Bernie 
Williams, and Paul ONeill pace the 
Yanks, but the powerful strokes of Jim 
Thome, Matt Williams, David Justice, 
and Manny Ramirez more than makes 
up for that of the Bronx Bombers, and 
that will make the difference in this 
series. Oh yeah, I hate the Yankees, 
too. Cleveland in five.
Mariners should have little trouble with the 
Tribe (unless they lose in the first round, in 
which case they would have a lot of trouble).1
; ion on the 1997 playoff picture. And even 
though half of the first round will be over 
before you read this, I made these picks 
. before the playoffs started. Trust me. 
New York vs. Cleveland 
This series will be decided by whichBaltimore vs. Seattle
In Mike Mussina, Jimmy Key, and 
Scott Erickson, Baltimore has quite an 
impressive set of starting pitchers. But 
Seattles trio of Randy Johnson, Jeff 
Fassero, and Jamie Moyer won more
games (53) than any other in the Ameri
can League. And if Seattle is going to 
win this series, their starting pitching 
has to be awesome. That is because the 
Mariners have the worst bullpen in the 
history of the playoffs. Led by fearsome 
closer Heathcliff Slocumb (0-9, 5.16), 
no lead is safe for the Ms. But 
theres no needtofear,Su
per Junior is 
here. Griffey 
Edgar Martinez 
Jay Buhner, and Alex 
Rodriguez lead a power
ful lineup that (probably) 
will not be shut down. My 
deep insight on the series is this:
If Seattle can play Mariner baseball 
like they know how, and keep the 
Orioles from doing what theyve 
been doing all year, I think 
theyll have a good shot at 
putting some Ws on the Q) 
board. My pick: Seattle in 
five games.
Florida vs. San Francisco
This series should provide 
a little more excitement than 
the Braves-Losers series, but 
not much. The Giants pitch
ing has surprised all year with 
Shawn Estes, Mark Gardner,
and Kirk Rueter having fine seasons, 
and mid-season pickup Wilson Alvarez 
has also done well. But in my opinion 
they cant compete with Kevin Brown and 
Alex Fernandez. Pirate fans know how 
well Barry Bonds has fared in the post
Atlanta vs. Houston
I think the Astros should be congratu
lated on their hard earned National 
League Central crown with some early 
plane tickets home. I see no need to even 
play this series. After Biggio and
season (career average. 190), and the rest Bagwell, Houston has no one that cap 
ofthe Giants hitters wont equal the timely touch the likes of Maddux, Glavine,
hitting Marlins. Florida in four.
orR :6eOiuM0ome9m2 3e9 F9m..
Smoltz, and Neagle. The mighty Bravejs 
are on a mission, and the Stros are tob 
weak to stop them. No surprises her: 
Atlanta in three.
League Championship 
and World Series 
In the American League 
Championship Series, th 
Mariners should have littlfe 
trouble with the Tribe (unless they 
lose in the first round, in which case they 
would have a lot of trouble). And while 
Florida owned Atlanta in the rgulai* 
season, the Braves will easily coast by the 
inexperienced fish here in October in the 
NLCS. In the Fall Classic, it will once 
again be all-Braves, the Team ofthe '90$.
Coox would appreciate it if, in fact, his 
column does make you want to throw up, 
you chose a different page to do it on. Hf 
would offer his suggestions as to which 
page if he didnt think he would be fired 
for doing so.
ckr trRTauRu29 umtl r9lue
DUO, from page 16
styles are a perfect match for the 
doubles game, and the fact that 
. they are both terrific tennis players
 in general certainly doesnt hurt.
Of course, almost all athletes 
are superstitious to some degree, 
and Brown is definitely the su
perstitious one on the team. I 
always take six sips of water on a 
changeover, and seven if its a tiebreak, said Brown. I bounce the 
ball three times before I serve, 
and two times on a second serve. 
The good karma seems to be 
working, and the doubles team 
feels confident going into the na
tional competition. I think we 
have a good chance at this tour
nament, said Mills. Its always 
a pretty good competition, and 
Im looking forward to it. The
combination of camaraderie, ex
perience and excitement that the 
duo possess bodes well for their 
chances of success during this 
tournament and for the spring 
season next semester. Mills sums 
up both the remarkable qualities 
of her own doubles team and the 
meaning of teamwork in gen
eral. We bring out the best in 
each other, said Mills.
ome9m2i yarL iutr2Oplma. aumO
LEAD, from page 16
. two more field goals. But the Tar
tans couldnt cash in before time ran 
out, so the teams went to overtime. 
L CMU gained first possession in 
 the overtime and, with first and 
: ten at Dickinsons 25, they began 
their drive. The drive did not last 
long as the Tartans rushed 25 
yards in four plays to go up 37-30.
Dickinson responde in due fashADMINISTRATION
Director: Mike Mastroianni X8-2214; 
Asst. Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2214; IM Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053; 
Mens President: Jeff Jesensky x2- 
2830; Womens President: Katie 
Gallagher X2-3363
IMPORTANT DATES 
Tuesday, October 7IM Board Meeting 
11:30am in Gym Conference Room. 
Tuesday, October 7Volleyball begins 
in UC Gym
Wednesday, October 8  Football 
playoff brackets announced 2 pm 
Thursday, October 9  Soccer, Darts, 
land Team Table Tennis rosters due 
Thursday, October 9Football playoffs 
; Wednesday, October 15  Mandatory 
'Soccer Rules meeting.
ion. With second and eight at 
CMLPs 23-yard fine, McGee com
pleted a touchdown pass to Bright, 
which tied the score at 37.
In the second overtime Dickinson 
received the ball first and again 
wasted no time, going 25 yards in 
four plays for the TD. The score came 
off a6-yardrunbyRBBenCantonese.
CMU had a chance to tie the 
game, but they couldnt. With
CROSS COUNTRY
The 1997 IM Cross Country meet was 
held on October 2 in Schenley park. The 
mens winner in a time of 11:34 was 
Joe Mlakar. The womens winner was 
Tara Gargiulo with a time of 14:13. The 
mens team champion was Navy A.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL 
The co-rec season wraps up tonight. 
The Majors champ was Todds Team 
and the Minors champ was Tego.
FOOTBALL 
The regular season ends tomorrow. The 
playoffs will be posted by 2 pm on 
Wednesday. Teams should call the office 
after that time to see when they play.
VOLLEYBALL 
The season startsTuesday.The schedules 
are out and can be picked up in the IM 
office. All games are played in the UC.
TENNIS
Play all games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM office within 24 hours.
fourth and eight, QB Clay rushed 
seven yards, but came up short of 
the first down. This ended the 
overtime and CMU received their 
first home loss of the season.
Quarterbacks Clay and Pirosko 
were a combined 10-20 passing 
and ended with 155 yards and 
two TDs. Runningbacks Campie 
and Neupaver ended with 141 
and 72 yards, respectively.
CHESS
Report all scores to the IM office. 
RACQUETBALL, BOWLING, 
FOOSBALL
Schedules will be out later this week. 
SOCCER
The due date is October 9 at 4:30 pm. Ther 
mandatoiy rules meeting will be October 
15 in the main gyms old pool room.
Majors
1. BETA: 2. Hit Squad; 3. SAE 
Intermediate
1. GSIA High Court; 2. PKT Emeralds;
3. Theta Xi Blue; 4. SAE Shocker 
Minors
1. Kappa Sig; 2. SAE Chad Roll; 3. Sig 
Tau PowerTools; 4. Buttersville Bombers 
Women Only 
1. Tartan Hoopers A
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKIhv:F -P o8D 5wv:3w C3H#DoA
Being Asian bilingual is your ticket to success.
-29ueg6uL L69l 9lu LreaOfi 9rT trRTm26ui m9 9lu zm2p3i6m2 hry !m6eW 62takO62sEAdobe Systems. Exxon. Fidelity Investments, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Camble, and more !
Oct. 17-18,1997*
hmtry #A hmg69i Ir2gu296r2 Iu29ue 
U// bui9 N9l F9euu9 PA'AIA* Occ 18 is Only for Japanese speaking bilinguals 
To register or get more information, contact;
International Career Information Inc.
zlr2uE pBxxpB/SpB/N/ , l99TE00LLLAe6t6AtrR0mtL , upRm6aE 7.62.rGe6t6AtrRChina  Hong Kong  India  Indonesia  Japan  Korea  Malaysia  Philippines  Singapore  Taiwan  Thailand  Vietnamz3Pp3F-3P hv: !3-H
% HOW LEE fj
CHINESE FOOD TO TAKE OUT 
5888 Forbes Ave., (Squirrel Hill), Pittsburgh, P.A. 15217
8: 422-1888
FREE DELIVERY
OPEN HOURS:
Mon. to Thurs.: 11:00-10:30 pm 
Fri. & Sat.: 11:00 am -11:00 pm 
Sunday: 12:00 noon -10:00 pm
www.foodfestival.com
Baseball club finishes fall 
season with tough losses
By STACEY REED
Tartan Staffwriter
The baseball club finished 
their fall season with two 
losses to the University of 
Pittsburgh at Greensburg this 
weekend. Despite scores of 8- 
3 and 15-6, they played to
gether as a team and their 
defense tightened up notice
ably during the doubleheader; 
they played like champs.
The infielders were talking 
to each other and yelling encouragement at the pitcher. i 
Whaddya say number 
eight?
Starting pitcher and fresh
man Brian Yuen responded 
with an awesome performance Z 
on the mound. Not only did he 
pitch well, buthe covered the plate 
for tags at home and made several 
difficult snags, all while keeping 
close tabs on the runners. This 
was Yuens thirdstartfor the team. 
I think this was my best start yet. 
Fve been working on building my 
arm strength, he said.
Jon Mayes relieved Yuen as 
pitcher in the fourth inning. 
His pitching was consistent, 
and well-liked by the opposition
 so much so that he gave away 
two home runs in the bottom of 
the sixth inning. He made up for
this by continuing his five-game 
hitting streak with a base hit that 
ended in an RBI.
Defense remained impressive 
during this game. We got to
gether this game and our defense 
held up. We had very few errors, 
said Mayes. Senior Ed Cudahy 
and junior Ramon Poo both had 
great games on the field. Cudahy, 
at first base, was responsible for 
several plays, making great stops 
and finishing the plays alone.
Poo caught everything within
Im a god.
 Tyler Burke 
sophomore catcher
his reach in left field. Even after 
being hit by a pitch earlier in the 
game, his performance at the 
plate was strong. He hit a double 
to left in the top of the seventh 
and stole several bases. CMU 
dropped the first game with a 
final score of Pitt 8, CMU 3.
The second game was almost 
over at the end of the second 
inning. Pitt went through their 
batting order like a little-league 
team, scoring ten runs during 
these two innings.
Team captain, senior Jay
McCormack, started the game on 
the mound, but was moved to 
shortstop in the second inning 
and Mayes relieved.
Beginning with a three-run home 
run from sophomore catcher Tyler 
Burke, scoring McCormack and 
Mayes, the team responded to the 
beating in the top of the third in
ning. Tm a god, said Burke.
Yuen, Cudahy, and junior Mike 
Porpora all had base hits while 
there were two outs during the 
same inning, but all three wer
- left on base.
Team captain McCormack 
had a solo home run in the top 
of the sixth inning, after tak
ing one for the team in the 
fourth inning.
Moral of the story: get hit by 
a pitch, bat like a pro.
The outfield got a little exercise 
during this game. Poo and cocaptain senior Jon Zubiller were 
all over the grass, robbing Pitt of 
base hits, but it wasnt enough to 
recover from the damage done at 
the beginning of the game. Pitt 
took the game 15-6.
The club finished its fall sea
son with a record of 1-7. They 
are on hiatus until the spring 
semester. I look forward to the 
spring season and to seeing some 
new names on the roster, said 
coach Bob Janeda.
classified
JOBS
Excellent extra income now. Envelope 
stuffing. $600-5800 every week. Free 
details: SASE to International Inc. 1375 
Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 
11230.
Earn free trips & cash. Class Travel 
needs students to promote spring 
break 1998. Sell 15 trips & travel free. 
Highly motivated students can earn a 
free trip & over $10,000. Choose 
Cancn, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica 
or Florida. North America's largest 
student tour operator. Call now. (800) 
838-6411.
Programmers for Macintosh and/or 
Windows C/C++ programmers for 
challenging positions to assist in the 
development of a cross-platform 
experiment authoring package for use by 
psychologists. The software allows users 
to author and run real-time cognitive 
experiments using either a scripting 
language or a graphic interface. Excellent 
position to develop commercial visual 
project development experience. Full
time and part-time positions are 
immediately availableata small Pittsburgh 
area software firm. Options to work in 
Oakland or Swissvale. Send cover letter, 
resum and professional references to
Human Resources, Psychology Software 
Tools, 2014 Monongahela Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15218 or email to 
info@pstnet.com. Seewww.pstnet.com for 
more information.
Nanny/Mother's helper, Energetic, caring 
individual to care for our 4.5 year old 
daughter in our Squirrel Hill home. M-F 
approx. hours 3-4pm to 7pm, possibly split 
days between two people. Additional Friday 
& Saturday night hours available. Must 
have own car and be a non-smoker. Would 
considra live-in situation. Please call 683- 
0905 (home) or 471 -8484 ext. 305 (work)
SIOOO's Possible Typing Part Time. At 
home. Toll Free (800) 218-9000 Ext. T 
7862 for listings.
Low Student and Faculty Fares to 
international destinations. Good 
Domestic Fares, AYII and Eurail Passes. 9- 
5 M-F, 9:30-Noon Saturday. 4609 
Winthrop Street, off South Craig. Forum 
Travel 681-4099.
Mise
Gov't foreclosed homes from pennies on 
$1. Delinquent Tax, Repo's, REO's. Your 
Area. Toll Free (800) 218-9000 ext. h-7862 
for current listings
Seized Cars from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs. 
Chevy's, BMW's, Corvettes, Also jeeps, 
4WD's. Your Area, Toll Free (800) 218-9000 
Ext. A-7862 for current listings.
JRAVEL
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 92. Issue 6The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania6 October 1997
Pair excels in doublesComeback kills CMU
By RYAN E. WILLHITE
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU football team made 
their return home last Satur
day, to meet rival Dickinson
yards in 12 plays ending with a 5- 
yard run by HB Chris Neupaver. 
After Dickinson fumbled the ball, 
CMU quickly took advantage. The 
Tartans went 69 yards in four 
plays. This put the Tartans up
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
After leading 30-9 in the fourth quarter, the Tartans couldnt get a 
hold of Dickinson, losing 44-37 in double overtime.
College. However, the Tartans 
were disappointed as Dickinson 
College won a thrilling double 
overtime game, 44-37.
The game started out fast for 
the Tartans as they raced 70 
yards in six plays and jumped 
out to a 7-0 lead. The touch
down came off of a 6-yard run 
by RB Mike Campie. Dickinson 
responded quickly with a field 
goal on their next possession.
With the score at 7-3, the Tar
tans went on a tear. On their 
next drive, the Tartans drove 80
21-3 and brought the first quar
ter to an end.
The second quarter started off 
a bit slower than the first. Nei
ther team took advantage on of
fense as both teams punted away 
their first possessions. On the 
Tartans second possession, they 
reasserted themselves. With sec
ond and 20 at the Dickinson 35, 
QB Tom Pirosko threw a 3 5-yard 
touchdown pass to WR Ricco 
Parrish. This put CMU up 27-3 
at halftime, and the rout was on.
However, coming out of halftime, Dickinson had other plans. 
On their second possession of the 
half, they marched 64 yards in 
eight plays and received a touch
down. The touchdown came off of 
a 20-yard pass from QB Dan 
McGee to WR Mike Bright. After 
a failed two-point conversion, the 
score was 27-9 entering the 
fourth quarter.
The Tartans responded by 
opening the fourth quarter with 
a 45-yard field goal to put CMU 
ahead 30-9. Then, the unbeliev
able occurred. With CMU up 30- 
9, Dickinson put on a show that 
only Reggie Miller would love.
On Dickinsons next possession 
with third-and-seven on their own 
18, QB McGee threw an 82-yard 
pass to WR Dwayne Shoemaker. 
After the extra point, the score 
was 30-16. On the ensuing kickoff, Dickinson caught CMU off 
guard with an onside kick. 
Dickinson recovered the kick and 
went 55 yards in five plays for 
another touchdown. The touch
down was the result of a 13-yard 
pass to Bright.
Leading 30-23, CMU tried to 
regain control. But, with third and 
seven to go on their 38, QB Russ 
Clay was sacked for a loss of eight.
Dickinson wasted no time on 
their next possession. Working 
with second and 19 at their 39, 
McGee connected with Bright for 
a 61-yard touchdown. Dickinson 
moved 86 yards in six plays on 
the drive. The score was now knot
ted at 30.
CMU had another chance to 
regain the lead as they attempted 
Please see LEAD, page 15
ome9m2i 9mQu iutr2O 62 9rke2uM
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
CMUs womens volleyball won their 
first match ofthe season, including three 
in a row to power them to second place in 
their own six-team tournament this past 
weekend. Every element, from the 
matching light green, blue and yellow 
scrunchies that each player wore in her 
hair to the quick, definitive passing 
around the court, showed the unity of 
this squad.
Much of the teams success can be 
attributed to the triumphant return of 
sophomore middle hitter Steph Szobota, 
whose 5'11" height and incredible pres
ence up front was just what the Tartans 
needed to finish the games with the 
points to seal victory.
It feels so great. Its wonderful to be 
back. Things are looking up, said 
Szobota, who, along with sophomore set
ter Sarah Putaro, won a spot on the all
tournament team.
Budda was so great in the middle, 
said sophomore Beth Sekowski, referring to Szobotas nickname, which the 
team chanted from the bench while she 
received her award for the tournament.
The team had struggled in the previ
ous weekend, dropping eight straight 
matches at the UAA Tournament in 
Rochester. They lost in straight sets to 
six teams and then, heartbreakingly, 
Brandis 13-15, 8-15, 15-8, 6-15, 13- 
15. The last set of that match was typical 
of a problem that 
Coach Julie Webb is 
trying to get the team 
to work through.
We lose so many 
games by two points, 
its awful. We will just 
work harder in prac
tice this week and 
play our best all of the 
time. If that brings us 
a win, great, and if it 
doesnt, its OK be
cause we are playing 
our best. But that 
doesnt mean that we 
like it, she said. The Tartans dug in
The Tartans were a 0-18 team, but 
Webb was not daunted, pointing out 
that the average digs per match were 
up to over 11. The competition is just 
so tough at UAAs and those teams 
were more talented than we are, said 
Webb. The other coaches just love our 
team because we are fighters and never 
give up. Our spirits are up, and we will 
Please see WIN, page 13
:e6m2 Smith/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
for three wins in Saturdays tournament.
Ierii trk29eM 2uk9uei brague62ui
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
What do you do when you have to race 
your opponent on their home course, on 
their homecoming day, and they ap
proach the starting area with war paint 
on their faces and chanting their school 
fight song? Whoop em, answers sopho
more Eric Egenolf of the CMU Mens 
Cross Country team.
And that is what they did, defeating 
Grove City by a score of 24 to 34 this past 
Saturday. The race was won 
by sophomore Kenn Oldham, 
who pulled ahead about a mile 
from the finish with a seem
ingly effortless pass ofthe Wol
verines leader with about a ________
mile left in the race. Close behind were sophomore Bryan Meyer (third) 
and senior Brian Ingram (fifth), who both 
had their best performances of the season. 
The victory was sealed with outstanding 
exhibitions by Egenolf, senior Maliek 
Washington, junior KristoKriechbaum, 
and junior Kelan Wieloch, who finished 
seventh, eighth, ninth, and eleventh 
respectively, creating a substantial 
point gap between the Wolverines third 
and fourth point scores.
The men expected some stiff opposi
tion, and thats what-they got from the 
Grove City squad. Although Grove City
had never beaten CMU before, they came womens teams travel to Dickinson next 
within one point last year on CMUs home weekend to compete in the Dickinson 
course, and they tend to gear up for their Invite, where they will face most of the 
annual contest with the Tartans. Their major teams in the region. Still, some 
enthusiasm Saturday took the form of runners might have gotten just a little 
face paint, school cheers, and overeager caught up in the Grove City rivalry, 
runners who, some observed, might have It can be a good feeling to win. in the 
gone out too fast in the races first mile. opponents backyard. said Wieloch. EsIts big for them, like the regional pecially when they try and emphasize
the home advantage.
A cross country race can inflict a lot of 
wear and tear on a runner, and womens 
coach Dario Donatelli knows that. He in
structed his runners to approach 
their race more as an intense 
workout than an all out effort in 
order to save them from some of 
that exhaustion and better pre
pare them for the Dickinson 
meet next week. The women 
followed Donatellis advice, and cruised 
their way to victory over Grove City.
They were led by Margaret Powers 
(first), Becky Buchheit (second), Mel
issa Lott (fourth), Katie Janes (seventh), 
and Melissa Sloan (tenth).
We have a very solid core on this 
team, said Donatelli. But what pleased 
me the most about the performance at 
Grove City was the efforts of some of our 
other runners to improve up to the level 
of our front pack. We had some younger 
runners really come into their own and 
show what they could do.
meet. Every time we run them, they are 
always hungry for CMU blood, said 
Washington. We take them seriously 
as an opponent... but we dont take the
Every time we run them, they are 
always hungry for CMU blood.
 senior Maliek Washington
meets quite as personally; We want to 
win, but we also have bigger fish to fry.
Bigger fish to fry? The win Saturday 
was due in large part to some outstand
ing performances of certain individu
als, said mens head coach Gary 
Meckley. We had three runners Satur
day beating a Grove City runner who 
finished in the top ten at Regionals last 
year. There are four teams in the region 
this year that all have a shot at winning.
This meet shows that we are definitely 
one of those four teams with a shot.
Bigger fish indeed. Both the mens and
IeuL erLi 9r g6t9reM
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
CMUs Crew competed Saturday with 
over3,900otherparticipantsinthe 11th 
annual Head of the Ohio, the second 
largest event of its kind in the nation.
The competitors, which included the 
Canadian, German, and U.S. national 
teams, raced down a 3.1-mile stretch 
of the Allegheny River and finished 
almost at the point. Because of the 
enormous amount of competitors, 
teams raced down practically one af
ter the other the entire day, rather 
than in separate heats.
Its going from technique and train
ing to more hard core, club president 
senior Klaus Moser said of the progres
sion the team is trying to make. The 
team is trying to get past the technical 
stage of just rowing together to compet
ing and winning. According to Moser, 
this was the first time the mens group 
had rowed together competitively.
Themens-eightfinishedthe 5 Kcourse 
in a time of 13:40.5, tenth out of 12 club 
teams. The Canadian team had the fast
est eight-man boat, with a time of 
12:42.6. The womens-four was 13 of 20 
clubs at 16:48 over the same distance.
Fundraising tents lined the north side 
of the Allegheny, directly across from 
down-town. The team arrived at 7:30 
am, two hours before their first races and 
stayed, competing twice, until the late 
afternoon. During the long layoff be
tween races, the team was careful to stay 
out ofthe Saturday sun and to eat correctly.
I dont eat too much before a race, 
said Thomas McElroy, who limits him
self to grains, fruits, and water. Because 
ofthe nature of the exercise, Crew mem
bers take a little extra care as to what they 
let sit in their stomachs. Part of [rowing] 
is using your abs. Youre sort of compress
ing and decompressing your stomach. 
The men rowed without Julian Kinal, 
there top rower from last year, whos 
nursing a sore back. He hopes to be back 
and competing in four weeks. Kinal didnt 
let his sidelined status keep him from 
supporting his teammates.
I got on one bridge, raced down; just 
caught them, shouted; went down to 
another bridge, shouted, said Kinal, 
describing his efforts to cheer the team 
on a borrowed bicycle. One reason for 
the popularity ofthe event is Pittsburghs 
picturesque bridges.
This is a nice course because on the 
second half theres all the bridges, said 
Amy Ng. On most other courses theres 
nothing to see.
Kinal, an architecture student, is de
signing a river-side indoor sports arena 
as a class project. Itd be kind of nice ifthis 
race was five weeks ago, then Fd have 
gotten my site data while I was here. 
The teams were pleased with their 
times, but look forward to improving.
We were goingagainst international com
petition and we wanted to give our best, 
said Moser. All and all, were optimistic.
By RYAN KELLOGG
Tartan Staffwriter
In Hollywood, the story of a 
spunky rookie being paired with 
a cool veteran has become some
thing of a movie clich. However, 
for Elisabeth Brown and Keri 
Mills of the CMU Womens Ten
nis team, its a storyline that 
couldnt be more true to life.
At the 1997 
Womens Rolex 
Northeast Region 
championships,
Mills, a junior from 
Houston, won the 
singles title for the 
third year in a row, 
while freshman 
Brown finished 
third after initially 
being seeded sev
enth. The two then 
paired up to sweep 
through the 
doubles competi
tion without losing 
a set to take the 
title. While many 
schools bring at 
least four people to 
the tournament, 
the CMU duo bested them all 
 they brought the fewest ath
letes but took home the most 
trophies. What all this means 
is that the doubles team ad
vances to the Rolex National 
Small College Championships 
in Memphis, Tennessee in two 
weeks, while Mills will play in 
the singles competition.
That Mills and Brown have 
achieved remarkable success af
ter being paired for only a short
time is a testament to how well 
their individual approaches to the 
game and styles of play comple
ment one another. Doubles ten
nis is indeed a team sport, and 
simply pairing the two best play
ers on the squad does not guaran
tee that a team will do well. In 
this case, however, Browns enerment. She can sympathize with 
her partners anxiety. [As a 
freshman] I didnt know what to 
expect. Its not the same level of 
play as in Texas. In a game 
where mental attitude is every
thing, the pair seem to balance 
each other well.
[Elisabeth] brings energy; she
getic attitude and Mills voice of is really pumped up out there, 
experience prove to be the perfect said Mills. Her partner readily
responds: I get 
really psyched 
in doubles! But 
dont count out 
emotion from 
Mills, either. 
During the first 
game of the fi
nal doubles 
match, Brown 
watched her 
partner return 
overhand lobs 
from the other 
team while 
shouting, Come 
on! Bring it on! 
The combina
tion of enthusi
asm and expe
rience means 
the team can 
maintain an even keel and keep 
their play steady throughout 
the match.
The mental part of the game 
isnt the only aspect in which the 
pieces fit together nicely. Brown 
describes herself as A baseline 
player. I usually dont come to 
the net unless I have to. Mills, 
on the other hand, plays more of 
a full court style, and doesnt 
mind going to the net. Their 
Please see DUO, page 15
loom pnotos) 329lr2M Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Junior Keri Mills (left) and freshman Elisabeth Brown (right) will 
represent CMU at the Rolex National Championships in Memphis.
recipe for success.
She brings experience, lead
ership, and her-talking calms 
me down, said Brown of her 
partner; these all are extremely 
important for a freshman who 
looks to the national competi
tion with a mixture of excite
ment and nerves. Shell say 
okay, next point, which helps to 
keep focus.
Ive been there before, said 
Mills, agreeing with the assessAnybody home?
322m 6pre96201 arcan rnoio ian 
Art at top of page by hmRui Mojonnier/Tartan Art Staff 
A buggy crew prpars for cape tests last week in front of Baker Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

4rakRu nWfW 7ru66 .j96t .m6 - im6aq K mRts6t -4-taar2 aa26gt6t6aMW - Ca - t6R6sa6W zu22iMagm26mt F.6.Ya7Z. E&^8Jd
Feminist ideals 
underscore art
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Contributing Editor
Mira Schor is an artist con
sumed by -isms. She believes 
her work takes place at the 
intersection of three -isms: 
modernism, feminism, and 
postmodernism.
Schor, a painter and writer 
I from New York City, spoke last 
Thursday in McConomy Audifrom her dreams and repre-, 
sented self-discovery and 
sexual exploration. In these 
early works, Schor included an 
image of herself as a way to 
insert her personal narrative 
irito the work.
Schor explained that she 
stepped away from the tradi
tional paintbrush and easel in 
the late 70s and used her hand
writing as a medium to express
Liaetic miiier-L'iAVii/ ?Evv??? uamiuum ivioiiagei
Modernism, feminism, and postmodernism interact in Schors work.
torium as part of the School of her narrative. She showed one 
Art Lecture Series. Schor work that consists of a womans 
showed slides of her work and figure cut out of layers of rice 
discussed the social and politipaper. The figure was pinned 
cal influences in her painting, to a wall about a foot off the
Her current works insert femi
nistic semiotics into modernis
tic painting.
Mira is one of those, rare 
persons who combines practice 
and theory in a very symbiotic 
way. Shes an accomplished 
painter and also a much pub
lished and quoted writer about 
art, said Faith Wilding, a vis
iting professor in the School of 
Art and a college classmate of 
Schors.
Schor attended the feminist 
art program at California In
stitute of the Arts where she 
began a career that would un
dergo several changes in direc
tion, but would always focus on 
feminist ideals. One of the rea
sons that I was attracted to 
feminism was that I was inter
ested in bringing into art a per
sonal narrative. At a point in 
my early 20s, [I wanted, to] use 
art as a place to watch myself 
grow and understand my own 
growth, said Schor.
Schors first work after col
lege, a series of paintings called 
Story Paintings, was derived
ground so that it stood at eye 
level with a man of average 
height. A man walking up to 
the body Would see a womans 
diary written on the bodj?. He 
can literally turn the pages of 
the woman and try to read her, 
but he mil never be able to 
understand all the words be
cause Schor purposefully made 
some of the writing illegible.
Men would say to me that 
this work seemed very aggres
sive because [the womens fig
ures] were so delicate, but in 
their own space just hover
ing on the wall in a way that 
apparently makes [the men] 
quite nervous, Schor said.
The next works Schor showed 
were from the early part of this 
decade. These pieces continue to 
rely on Words to paint a political 
message. In 1991, after the con
clusion of the Gulf War, Schor 
decided to create a circular paint
ing'that would run around the 
walls, of a room. She worked on 
the piece, War Freeze, for four 
years, but never finished it.
Please see WORDS, page L3
Show provides glimpse into past life of CMU alumnus
Health Services makes the grade
By NEEMA AVASHIA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Pennsylvania, Slippery Rock ment. The AAAHC also judged treatment for serious problems, 
College, and Haverford College, immediate and urgent care sersaid Anita Barkin, director of 
The organization was judged vices and pharmaceutical serHealth Services.
I went to Health Services beon a set of eight core standards: vices. Treatment for cases involving
cause I was really sick and my rights of patients, governance, Health Servicesscope of pracgeneral medicine, gynecology,
calculus professor wanted a 
note, but they didnt give me 
one. Instead, they gave me 
medicine and the standard 
check-up. It was all very nice, 
but personally, I wouldnt feel 
comfortable going to them if I 
needed something serious diagnosed, said Alison 
Greenwald, freshman ECE 
major.
Despite student complaints 
such as this, Health Services 
has recently received recog
nition in its field. This past 
July, the Accreditation Asso
ciation for Ambulatory 
Health Care (AAAHC), which 
sets health care standards 
for ambulatory health care 
organizations, evaluated 
Health Services over a twoday period. Based on its ob
servations, it awarded Health 
Services with a 3-year ac
creditation, the highest com
mendation possible, and made it 
one of only five colleges in Penn
sylvania to receive this accredi
tation. The other schools include
Health Services underwent a two-day evaluation of its facilities to receive accreditation.
administration, quality of care 
provided, quality management 
and improvement, clinical 
records, professional improvePenn State, the University of ment, and facilities and environtice is equivalent to that of your 
family doctor. We see things that 
are acute, episodic, and easy to 
manage medically. We have also 
diagnosed and treated or referred
contraceptives, al
lergy injections, and 
an on-site formulary 
where students can 
get prescription medi
cines can all be found 
at Health Services.
We had to undergo 
a rather intensive 
self-assessment, 
said Barkin.
Accr e ditation 
serves many pur
poses, the first of 
which is to encourage 
high-quality health 
care. In addition, it 
assures patients that 
they are getting 
health care from an 
organization that an 
outside agency has 
found to be compliant 
with standards for 
good health care. Its 
not just me as direc
tor of Health Services saying, 
Hey, we do good here,  said 
Barkin.
However, opinions about 
Please see ACCREDITATION, page L3Professor garners position of Chair
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Dr. Paul Hopper, professor of 
rhetoric and linguistics, is sur
rounded by words. The shelves in 
his office are filled with books that 
consist of English words, 
Cantonese words, French words, 
Latin words, and words from vir
tually any language that you could
name. Words are always on _____
Hoppers mind. He studies 
words; he writes about 
words; he teaches words. 
Language has always been 
the one thing that has fasci
nated me, Hopper said.
Hoppers intense work in 
discourse studies, grammaticalization, and linguistics 
has enabled him to be re. 
cently appointed the Tho
mas S. Baker Chair in English at 
CMU. According to Dean of H&SS 
Peter Stearns, chaired professors 
are recognized for extraordinary ac
complishments. Funds for some 
chairs are given by donors who want 
to assist the University or a special 
program within the University.
According to David Kaufer, head
of the English Department, the 
Baker Chair was establishedin 1969 
by the estate of the second presi
dent of Carnegie Tech, Thomas 
Baker. Previous holders of the title 
include author and educator G1 ady s 
Schmitt, A. Fred Sochatoff, former 
Vice Provost for Education Erwin 
Steinberg and former English De
partment head Richard Young.
[Hopper] is an internationally
waii, Binghamton University, 
New York, and everywhere in 
between, but Hopper insists that 
instructing at CMU does not 
compare to instructing at any 
other university.
CMU is so enjoyable because 
the students are so very sharp 
and articulate. They are easy to 
get along with and eager to learn. 
Ive never encountered students
If a student asked me if he or she should 
take his course, Id tell them to maim and 
kill to get into one of his classes. 
 Carrie Schutrick, senior 
creative writing major
renowned scholar in the field of 
linguistic study. His books and 
articles have analyzed the struc
ture of a number of languages, 
said Stearns.
Hopper, who is a native of En
gland, has been teaching at 
CMU for seven years. He has 
taught at the University of Ha
with this kind of enthusiasm to 
learn, Hopper said.
Dr. Hopper is a great teacher, 
and he is fair, which is important 
to students. I would definitely 
encourage people to take one of 
his courses because his class is 
fun. I learned some really cool 
stuff, said Dani Barnard, a se
nior professional writing major.
Dr. Hopper is very open to stu
dent input and takes everything 
into consideration. He is a very 
entertaining lecturer and has in
teresting insights. If a student 
asked me if he or she should take 
his course, Id tell them to maim 
and kill to get into one of his 
classes, said Carrie Schutrick, a 
senior creative writing major.
Hopper teaches both 
graduate and undergradu
ate courses. This semester, 
he is teaching Language 
and Culture.
Were looking at standard 
language and issues sur
rounding it, in this class. 
Were looking at many lan
guages. One of the questions
I have raised in the course 
is: How has animal commu
nication come about it in the first 
place? Hopper said.
The class is using 1984 and A 
Clockwork Orange to look at how 
language is imagined. Next se
mester, Hopper will be instruct
ing a freshman seminar entitled 
Can Animals Talk? The course 
Please see CHAIR, page L3
By ANAND MARATHE
tartan Junior Staffwriter
lI want to help demystify the arts, said Jef
frey Dorsey, a CMU alumnus and the artist 
rently featured in the University Center Art 
iallery. Dorsey graduated CMU in 1995 with 
Jegrees in art, painting, and drawing.
|<! I am still learning what CMU has taught 
said Dorsey. CMU taught me about the 
iternet  I learned that communication is 
anged today.
Dorsey is currently an art educator who works 
josely with the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts,
^ d paints on the side.
! One of Dorseys purposes in bringing his show 
|p CMU is to show students what he left school 
!th. This opportunity was good for Dorsey 
cause he was able to show all his works, not 
lst one, to give a whole picture.
In the center of the gallery are Dorseys 
tetchbooks. The sketchbooks are my brain.
?eoPle can see the connection between my 
rk and my ideas. The sketch shows that the 
[ork is as important as the product. I thought
rocess^ sai^Dorsey^11^^ s^ow w^^e Through his art, Dorsey tries to motivate others to tell their own stories in an individual way.
This is the most interesting work Ive seen yet artists final product; while some students are 
. m this school, said Kevin Ives, a sophomore art encouraged by it, others may be discouraged. 
lajor. Finally some painting thats interesting to What I use is not as important as the 
)(jk at. I love it. responses I portray of events, Dorsey said,
i-Dorsey remembers when he was in college, I just use what Ive learned to tell my stoj&d how it was good not to be in awe of an ries. He hopes that his work will help moti
vate people to tell their stories in their own 
individual way.
While many of his friends were movingto New Yorkfor 
better opportunities  particularly in art  Dorsey 
chose to stay here in Pittsburgh. 1 have always been 
interested in personal ideas but having some public
contribution. I love it here in Pittsburgh because you 
can contribute and see the contribution, said Dorsey.
For Dorsey, bringing his art back to CMU was 
a great reminder of the past. I feel rooted here; I > 
am proud of my roots, said Dorsey. Also, bringing 
his art to CMU gave Dorsey the chance to look - 
back on the past three years of his life and reaf
firm what he is doing. The show gave Dorsey a  
chance to breathe after the death of his mother, an 
event which took place within the past three ; 
years. It also gave him confidence as an artist and - 
a chance to see how his abilities relate to each' 
other and with the world.
[The show is] very touchy and moving and  
interesting, said Seldon Yuan, a senior in hu
manities and arts.
While the pressure at CMU turned him away 
from art, his trip abroad to France showed him the 
true value of art to the comrmmity. Working on 
community projects at CMU allowed Dorsey to 
experience the full diversity of the campus. [CMUs] 
diversity was one reason [I] came here, said Dorsey.
Dorsey urged students who have questions to 
call him. He says one major factor in his success 
was not limiting himself to the department alone. 
He recommends that students interested in doing similar things should get involved with some< 
thing in the community and to network. Use CMU  
as a great resource  it has so many connections 
but dont be limited by that, said Dorsey.
The UC Art Gallery is located on the first floor of 
the University Center. Dorsey will be having a 
reception on October 10 from 5 to 7 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

wVolu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSd
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
Marge Myers, assistant director 
of the STUDIO for Creative Inquiry, 
has been asked to be a member of 
the advisory committee for the 
AT&T: New Experiments in Art and 
Technology (NEAT) initiative.
The initiative encourages the com
mission and presentation of work by 
artists who use technology and sci
ence as a creative medium in sci
ence and childrens museums.
The advisory committee is made 
up of museum professionals, art
ists, and educators who will help 
AT&T with grant review and selec
tion processes.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
The Mechanical Engineering de
partment will hold a sixweek course 
on machine shop practice to famil
iarize students with the operation 
and safety of machine tools.
The course will meet for two 
hours a week beginning October 
20 in the Student Shop, Scaife Hall 
B14. Mechanical Engineering shop 
staff Jim Dillinger, John Fulmer, 
Steve Klim, and Dan McKeel will 
conduct the course.
The number of students in each 
group will be limited, and students 
can obtain space on a first-come, 
first-serve basis. The class will only 
be offered if filled.
Interested students should contact 
Joanne Dubrawski, Scaife Hall 426.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
This Thursday, David Gluck of 
Bellcore will be conducting mock 
interviews from 9 am to 2 pm. There 
are still a few slots available, but 
students must be registered with 
the Career Center in order to par
ticipate. Students can register by 
attending an orientation session 
Tuesday or Wednesday at 6 pm in 
the Career Center.
When signing up for a time slot, 
students must submit a resum to 
be given to the interviewer before 
the meeting. If a student doesnt 
have a resum, a temporary data 
sheet can substitute for it when re
serving a slot. Students are then 
expected to submit a resum prior to 
(or at) interview time.
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
Professor John Hart will be 
speaking on Shakespeare and Tra
dition for the University-spon
sored Last Lecture.
The lecture will be on November 
3 from 5 to 7 pm in the Adamson 
Wing, with a reception afterward.
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
The deadline for submission of 
SURG proposals is October 29. 
Jessie Ramey, director of the Un
dergraduate Research Initiative, 
has stated she will be happy to 
meet with students to answer 
questions. SURGs are open for all 
students, regardless of major.
Contact her at x8-5702 or 
ramey@andrew. There is also a 
SURG information sheet available 
from Warner Hall 429 which ex
plains eligibility requirements.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Professor Andrew Moore will be 
giving a lecture entitled Acceler
ating Machine Learning Algorithms 
with Cached Sufficient Statistics 
on Tuesday at 3:30 pm in Wean 
Hall 5409.
The lecture is part of the AI semi
nar series. For further details, 
please see www.cs.cmu.edu/~tai/ 
aiseminar.html.
ON CAMPUS
Djeuner sur l'herbe...
Many students and faculty alike took time out to enjoy the late fall weather by relaxing on the grass during a sunny early October afternoon.
College Briefs
n26ku irk2Oi r. z6Tu m2O cekR u2lm2tu ICn
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
Who doesnt enjoy walking across 
The Cut at dusk in the spring, watch
ing the sun set and listening to the 
Pipe and Drum band? Its truly a CMU 
experience, and part of the reason for 
that is because CMU is only one of 
seven or eight colleges in the United 
States with such a group. Not only are 
we unique to have such musical talent, 
but CMUs Pipe and Drum band are 
also frequent award winners.
The [win] at the Ligonier Highland 
Games was probably the most impor
tant to us because it was close to home 
and almost all of the local Pipe bands
were there competing against us, said 
Larry Allen, drum instructor.
Allen said that the Pipe and Drum 
band is especially good this year, having 
competed in four contests and taken 
first place in three of them, including 
the recent win at Ligonier. They came in 
second overall in the fourth competition, 
and the drum line is undefeated in indi
vidual rankings. The CMU Pipe and 
Drum band must contend with some of 
the more established bands which prac
tice all year long and have been playing 
together for many years.
The turnover that the band experi
ences and the fact that they can only 
practice nine months of the year should 
make it difficult for the Pipe and Drum
band to succeed against this kind of 
competition, but they overcome the odds 
almost every time.
Weve been very close [to winning the 
National Championship] because nor
mally when we go, we win, said Allen. 
In 1995, we finished fourth overall. 
Last year we came in second overall and 
won the Champion Supreme Contest, 
which is almost like a National Contest, 
but the bands are awarded twice as 
many points toward the overall win.
According to Allen, there is usually a 
Pipe and Drum competition every week
end, although CMU only competes in 
seven to eight a year spanning from the 
late spring to early fall. There are over 
a hundred other Pipe and Drum bands
in CMUs grade IV division, and seven 
local groups. Compare that to the seven 
or eight universities throughout the 
nation which have Pipe and Drum 
bands, including The Citadel and St. 
Andrews College, and its easy to see 
that CMU has a valuable resource in 
the talented group.
I think we are starting to get a lot 
more recognition. We had a really big 
crowd after we played at freshman con
vocation and more people wanted to 
sign up than I had ever seen, said 
Allen. Its really rewarding for me; Iin 
very serious about [the group]. I think 
if the University really puts some en
ergy behind this thing, theres no limit 
to what we can do.
D1Tue9i ilmeu Q2rLauOsu 9lerksl -29ueg6uL
If you could talk to anyone, dead or 
alive, who would it be? What would you 
ask? These questions have always been 
popular after-dinner conversation sparkers, but with new technology that has 
been developed at CMU, these questions 
are no longer hypothetical in some cases.
For example, would you like to ask 
Albert Einstein a few questions ? Thats a 
real possibility with Synthetic Interviews.
Dr. Scott Stevens, senior systems scien
tist in the HumanComputer Interaction 
Institute, developed 
Synthetic Interviews 
along with Don 
Marinelli, an associate 
professor of drama.
The two are co-direc
tors of the Entertain
ment Technology Cen
ter (ETC), which is a 
joint program between 
the School of Computer 
Science and the Col
lege of Fine Arts.
The ETC believes it 
is possible to combine 
the strengths of 
drama and technol
ogy to develop cutting-edge projects 
that can provide 
unique educational experiences for stu
dents studying in the field while at the 
same time furthering multimedia, en
tertainment-related research initia
tives.
Stevens shared some of the back
ground behind Synthetic Interviews and 
some of the interesting aspects of the 
Einstein Interview.
The Tartan: Can you explain what Syn
thetic Interviews are?
Scott Stevens: Its a lot easier to show 
than tell. The idea is to try to create a 
one-on-one between a person and a 
synthetic person. If you think about 
chat rooms  theyre a one-on-one 
between a celebrity and a lot of people. 
But with this kind of technology, our 
goal was to recreate a computer em
bodiment ... so that you could sit down 
and talk to [the person].
This grew out of work we were doing in 
many areas and came out of the knowl
edge that computers we have in the 
home just about have the power to take 
things out of the lab and put them to use.
TT: Why chooseEinstein for a Syn
thetic Interview?
SS: There are a couple of reasons. We 
did this for the 50th anniversary of the
conference was we had Einstein on a 3D 
projector so Einstein literally floated out 
in space so you could just walk up and talk 
to him. We probably had a couple thou
sand people talk to Einstein. One janitor 
came by every morning to say hello to Al.
TT: Who played the part of Einstein in 
the Interview?
SS: Jerry Mayer, a professional actor 
from New York. Don Marinelli knew 
him. He actually wrote a one-act called
Association for Computing Machinery 
(ACM), the Computer Science profes
sional association. Raj Reddy, the dean of 
Computer Science, was invited to give a 
talk.... He knew of our work and asked us 
to put together a presentation. When 
ACM heard about it, they were inter
ested. We wanted to pick an interesting 
character whom everyone had heard of 
and who was also in the realm of science.
We went everywhere from fourth grade 
classes to different Internet groups and 
asked them, If you could ask Einstein 
one question, what would it be? We had 
quite a few hundred questions that were 
returned from these people. There is 
also a lot that Einstein has written, so 
we went to those books to find appropri
ate answers to some questions.
The other thing we did at the ACM
You Know Al, Hes a Funny Guy, and 
performed it at CMU. We hired him not 
only because he understood about 
Einsteins life, but he also had a lot of 
insight into his work.
TT: Are there going to be more Syn
thetic Interviews?
SS: One of the things we are trying to 
do now is something with Herb Simon. 
University Archives has a lot of resources 
for us, and hes agreed to let us do some 
interviews with him as well. We hope to 
have the ultimate Herb Simon Web site.
TT: What is the larger purpose of the 
Synthetic Interviews?
SS: In general, access to experts doesnt 
scale very well. To be able to capture 
some piece of experts and take care of 80 
percent of the possible questions for that 
expert is a goal.
Another goal is to build the Interview 
over time and add more and more infor
mation so that all questions get covered.
TT: Has Einstein ever missed a 
question posed to him?
SS: We arent perfect. When we were 
out at the conference, there were 30 to 
40 legitimate questions that we missed. 
But one person asked, Why are 
lips black? Well, we didnt think wed 
get a question like that. If we dont 
understand the question, 
we have defaults like 
Thats illogical or I dont 
understand. But if we 
were to develop Einstein 
more, we would capture 
those [obscure] questions 
and build up answers over 
time.
TT: What benefits do the 
Interviews bring to CMU?
SS: Hopefully in the long 
run, well have more acces 
to people like Herb Simon. 
And there are a number of 
students who are working 
on these projects, so we 
want to work toward ia 
graduate program. We 
have a golden opportunity 
between the [School of] 
hmRui Cr7r226ue0oartan Art Staff Computer Science and tKe
School of Drama. Weve also gotten a lot 
of positive feedback from places like 
Disney Interactive, places that would 
love to have students come out of 
program like what we are planning on 
and I think in order for students, to have 
that opportunity, they need to work on 
cutting-edge material in order to posi
tion themselves in the marketplace.
TT: Whos the one person with whom 
youd like to have a Synthetic Interview?
SS: Thats a rough one. I think it 
might be Thomas Jefferson. My favorite 
monument in Washington, D.C. is the 
Jefferson Memorial. The things he had 
to say were so right-on, all so poetic. I 
think itd be fun to sit down and havera 
conversation with him. Weve been toy
ing with doing a Synthetic Interview 
with Marilyn Monroe, too, so....

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSdwNProfessor earns honorary Chair
CHAIR, from page LI
will address issues concerning primate 
communication and ways in which hu
mans relate to it.
Chimpanzees are trained to do some
thing analogous to human language. 
This is important in that we can find out 
what language is, Hopper said.
In addition, Hopper plans to teach an 
upper-level undergraduate English gram
mar course next semester. For the class, 
Hopper will use a book he has written, The 
Grammar of Standard Written "English.
Grammar is so very important. As a 
linguist, I think of grammar simply as 
something we are supposed to know. 
People misunderstand grammar. Its 
much more than the structure of things 
we say or write, he said.
I can remember at age 11,1 loved dia
gramming sentences, he said. Ive always 
thought as a teacher and researcher. I 
flirted with journalism, but Ive always 
come back to teaching, he said.
According to Barnard, Hoppers love 
for teaching has a direct impact on 
his students.
Dr. Hopper developed interesting 
class activities that excited the students. 
He relates the coursework to our inter
ests and our needs as developing writcourtesyof Paul Hopper
Hoppers unique contributions to the CMU community qualify him for this Chair.
ers. Overall, the reason he is such a 
compelling instructor is that he is very 
knowledgeable in the field of discourse 
analysis. The passion for his studies 
pours over into the classroom, she said.
When hes not teaching, Hopper spends 
a great deal of time writing books. His 
first book, Comparative Germatics, deals 
with syntax and the early stages of lan
guage. The book also reconstructs the 
earlier syntax of grammar.
In his book Grammaticalization, co
written with a Stanford professor, 
Hopper exposes the ways in which 
language creates grammar.
For example, when you say Mary is 
going to have a baby, the word going 
does not mean motion, but rather it 
indicates the future tense, said Hop
per. Language is full of this. Lan
guage uses ordinary words and action 
to create grammar.Language conveys life for artist
WORDS, from page LI
One panel of the painting that she 
showed consists of the words, Pub(l)ic 
Hair going down into a blood-filled toi
let. She got the idea for the panel after 
hearing about the Clarence Thomas/ 
Anita Hill hearings. Another panel works 
off the phrase, Its the economy, stu
pid, from President Clintons first cam
paign. She painted the words Its mod
ernism, stupid to look bloody and hairy 
and made the suffix -ism to look like it 
js going down into another blood-filled 
toilet. The flushing of -ism reflects 
Schors freedom from artistic and politi
cal movements.
Schor has continued to paint with
words. She said that she still refers to 
the body as in her early work, but now 
she does it entirely through language. 
Explaining the transition in her work, 
Schor said, You have to go where your 
work takes you.... There might be a time 
when Ill return to a work that is more 
polemic, which I think is what people 
are thinking about when they think of 
political art.
For now, Schor says shell continue to 
use color and shape to portray words 
and their meanings with less obvious 
political overtones. She explained that 
in her latest works, she is trying to take 
oil painting to the edge.
One painting that she worked on last
spring has the word black broken up 
into a series of paintings. She created a 
tar-like look with the paint. Schor said, 
Not only is my painting more out of 
control, but it seems that the words I 
want to be speaking are more uncertain. 
Complementing her work as a prac
ticing artist, Schor is also an editor 
and a writer about art. From 1986 to 
1996, Schor was co-editor ofM/E/A/ 
NII/N/G, a magazine she helped to 
begin when she could not find a forum 
for her writing. Her most recent book, 
Wet: On Painting, Feminism, and Art 
Culture, is a collection of essays that 
addresses issues central to the prac
tice and theory of postmodern art.
Association honors Health Services
ACCREDITATION, from page LI
 lealth Services within the student body 
-'ary greatly. They do what they can, 
and what they cant handle, they refer 
uo someone who can, said Javier 
Sanchez, a senior music major.
- Many students complained that 
Health Services wasnt open on week
ends, a fact that has been corrected 
now, since it is open from 11 am to 3 pm 
on Saturdays.
When you go into health services, 
you have to wait and make an appoint
ment before you can see the nurse. And,
if youre sick, you dont want to be wast
ing time, you want to be in bed, and 
then you have to come back later on and 
wait again. One time I called to make 
an appointment and I couldnt get in for 
three days, said Steve Diamante, a 
sophomore chemistry major.
Health Services saw over 16,000 stu
dent visits last year. We could never 
handle that amount of cases if we saw 
everyone on a walk-in basis, Barkin 
said. If you walk in and have a cold, 
no, Im not going to see you this 
minute. However, most students are
usually seen on the same day or 
within 24 hours of making an ap
pointment, and in emergency situa
tions, no person is going to be .de
nied treatment just because they 
dont have an appointment.
Barkin hopes that students will take 
this accreditation as a sign that there 
is a quality health care service on 
Carnegie Mellons campus. If you 
dont feel youve received proper care, 
or youre not happy, Im always will
ing to hear about what patients have 
to say, said Barkin.
Stereotypes hurt 
Womens Center
r
1 .
' ^_____y
Cracking the Myth
by Elizabeth Irvine
Feminism is a negative word. The best 
example of this is easily found at CMU. 
The campus Womens Center is constantly 
associated with negative connotations 
that it cant shake. No matter how many 
outreach programs, lectures, or social 
activities it provides, the Womens Cen
ter is always seen as an enigmatic, frivo
lous organization. Most people think its 
an exclusive organization with a highly 
political agenda. How many times in my 
four years here have I heard that the 
Womens Center is unnecessary? Why 
isnt there a mens center? is a question 
always used as a cpunterargument. Many 
times I have heard snide or malicious 
comments about a poster advertising a 
lecture the Center has sponsored.
Even though the Womens Center is
dissatisfied with the present state of 
things are often portrayed as de
pressed, militant and frightening. 
Feminists are shown in the media as 
man-hating, angry, and strange. They 
become the other to women in 
America. American women are sup
posed to embody contentment and se
curity. News programs and periodi
cals constantly make American women 
aware that they have it so much better 
than women in other parts of the world. 
So, women who arent satisfied, who 
see injustice in the everyday, are con
sidered ungrateful.
Women have been historically con
structed to not be angry. Tradition
ally, women are the calm, quiet ones 
who stabilize the home. Discontent
ment, although negative in both men 
and women, is far more acceptable 
in men. For example, in Rebel With
out a Cause, James Deans rebellion 
was problematic, but at the same 
time, because he was male, his dis
content was a product of his envi
ronment, so the viewer can sympa
thize with him.
When women rebel, their mental 
stability comes into question. Society 
doesnt want women to have angry
Groups with different focuses dont seem 
to be as threatening as the Womens Cen
ter.... Even on a university campus, where 
one would think people would be open to 
new ideas, feminists are marginalized. 
an object of ridicule, other womens 
organizations dont seem to receive as 
much criticism. Groups with different 
focuses dont seem to be as threaten
ing as the Womens Center, with its 
liberal agenda. Even on a university 
campus, where one would think people 
would be open to new ideas, feminists 
are marginalized. Cultural studies 
classes that focus on feminist issues 
are often questioned as a necessary 
part of the curriculum. The general 
campus population tends to wonder if 
there is any validity to these courses. 
Unlike physics or statistics, cultural 
studies courses are seen as threaten
ing the status quo, which tends to 
make people a little uncomfortable.
Those who choose to go against the 
status quo are stigmatized. People who 
are, passionate about the environment, 
race equality, world peace, or are simply
feelings, and as a result, the social 
conditions which are causing this re
bellion are ignored and the problem 
becomes internalized in the woman. 
People are usually uncomfortable 
when men question institutions as 
well, but when they do, the general 
public is more apt to pay attention to 
what issues they are addressing. Male 
rebellion, while problematic, has the 
potential to bring about change. But 
when women rebel, it brings up inter
nal disorder inherent in them.
The Womens Center is seen as a 
strange negative place because soci
ety dictates that it is not needed. It is 
abnormal, because it goes against the 
norm. Its unfortunate that the 
Womens Center is stigmatized, be
cause if students could get beyond 
their misconceptions offeminism, they 
could benefit from what it offers.
The member firms of the Andersen Worldwide Organization outside the 
U.S. are seeking candidates who have permanent work authorization in 
any of these countries with plans to return home after completing their 
bachelor's or master's degrees in fields related to:
 Business Administration (Masters of Business Administration)
 Industrial Administration
 Computer Science & Information Networking
 Computer, Electrical, Manufacturing, & Mechanical Engineering
 Social & Decision Sciences
 Industrial Management & Psychology
 Operations Research
We will be visiting Carnegie Mellon University on October 28th to interview 
international students who will graduate in Fall 97, and Spring and Summer 98.
To be considered for one of these positions, please submit your resume by 
October 14th to your career center for the ANDERSEN WORLDWIDE 
ORGANIZATION interview schedule or to:
Visit ourMaggie M. Chan home page at
Andersen Worldwide http://www.ac.comInternational Recruiting
8000 Towers Crescent Drive
Vienna, Virginia 22182
Fax: (703)762-1170
e-mail: Lnternational.recruiting@awo.com
Why wi for *he fwlwfeo92,lI,9 
p69IeMug9C
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS
COME HOME TO OPPORTUNITIES IN.. .
ASIA EUROPE LATIN AMERICA
MALAYSIA PHILIPPINES JAPAN S.KOREA 
HONGKONG THAILAND SINGAPORE INDONESIA 
TAIWAN FRANCE GERMANY BELGIUM 
LUXEMBOURG SWITZERLAND AUSTRIA 
NETHERLANDS VENEZUELA BRAZIL ARGENTINA 
MEXICO
An Equal Opportunity Employer /vUF/D/VThis is Broadband. This is the way.
that bringing an 
exciting world of entertainment, 
information, and communications Into 
its customers homes, Our one simple 
Broadband wire will make computers 
as entertaining as TVs, and TVs as 
smart as computers. People will enjoy 
everything from movies and video 
games to customized local sports, 
weather, and news - all at the touch 
of a button. And thats just the begin
ning. MediaOne is young-ambitious.... 
and technologically sophisticated.
In short, were a lot like you. If youre 
ready for a hands-on role in shaping 
the future, youre ready to explore a 
career with MediaOnel
See your Career Services department for details.
MediaOneMediaOne has incredible opportunities for-.
Network Engineers 
Program Managers 
Software Engineers
To find out more, check out our website at .
www.mediaone.com/jobs
or visit us on campus:
-PoDH4-DbFE vt9ryue U

---------------------------------------------------

1997 Natural Resources Defense Council
GLOBAL WARMING HAS 
ALREADY BEGUN.
miDC
Natural Resources 
Defense Council
The forecast by more than 2000 of 
the world's top scientists:
 Killer heat waves
 Infectious disease
 Floods
 Intense storms
Catch the White House Conference on 
Climate Change via satellite in your area. 
Visit NRDC at www.nrdc.org for locations 
and more information about global 
warming and what you can do to stop it.
sm  '\
Don't let your voice be silenced.
Tell President Clinton to stand up to big 
polluters and protect the planet. Or our 
forecast will remain bleak.
The cause... global warming due to 
pollution produced by burning coal, oil, 
gasoline and other fossil fuels.
Now, fearing profits are at risk, the coal, 
oil, and auto industries, are lobbying hard 
to convince President Clinton not to take 
action to reduce global warming pollution
Call the White House at 202 456-1111.

---------------------------------------------------

687-9555
Limited time offer, at participation locations only, no coupon necessary, not valid with any other offer.
Send resume and cover letter to: Recruiting Coordinator 
Dean & Company  8065 Leesburg Pike, Suite 500 
Vienna, VA 22182 703.506.3900  www.dean.com
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMCJ/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
 Mai ocfttaton supcorted cr PaimPiiol Prci-.-sswial only Vai and pense apoteaiions aro same links to des'-top software not supported on Macintosh.' PaknMot MacPac. requ.'Cd for Mabntosh comsctwty. is scio separat-t, CoofUgrs 1997 3Com Corporalon cr its su&s-danes. Ail rights reserved. 3Com. me 3Com lego, and Graffiti a-e registered trademarks, and HotSync. PalmPiict. PUm OS x tha PamPJoi logo s trademarks o 3Com Corjwaion or its suasidar^s. An other brands and product names may oe trademarks or registered trademarks of their resccciive holders.
You've got a lot on your mind. So before your brain gets to overload, 
get your hands on some help. With PalmPilot' its easy to store an 
entire college career's worth of info-names, phone numbers, 
appointments, assignments, e-mail*and more. And when you need to 
back up on your personal computer, just touch a button on the docking 
cradle and all your data is synchronized in 
seconds. At just 4.7" and 602, PalmPilot is more 
than a convenient electronic organizer. Its the 
buddy your overworked brain's been waiting for.PalntiPilot
olu Ir22ut9uO vesm26(ue
PIZZA 
OUTLET
Oakland/Shadyside 
4740 Baum Boulevard
Open 7 Days a Week
Sunday-Thursday 11 am - 2am  Friday & Saturday 11 am - 3 am
LARGE
ONE-TOPPING 
PIZZAS
for only
+tax
DEAN & COMPANY
STRATEGY CONSULTANTS
 We are a rapidly growing strategic management 
consulting firm located in the Washington, DC 
area
 Our clients are Fortune 100 companies in 
dynamic industries such as consumer products, 
financial services, telecommunications, and 
utilities
 We ojfer top tier compensation with accelerated 
professional growth and advancement 
opportunities for Ph.D.. Master and Bachelor 
level applicants
Please join us for an Informational Meeting 
hosted by
Jim Smist 
Executive Vice President
Monday, October 6, 7:00 p.m. 
Porter Hall Room 126A
If you want it in your 
HEAD you need it in your
PalmPilot
Professional Edition
 1MB memory  Back-lit display
 Datebook  Address book
 To<to lists  Memo pad
 Expense  Calculator
 Games  E-mail
 Internet ready  HotSync'
technology
PalmPilot Personal Edition
 512KB memory  Back-lit display
 Datebook  Address book
 To-do lists  Memo pad
 Expense  Calculator
 Games  HotSync'
technology

---------------------------------------------------

All early U.S. Interstate Highways were built with a 
straight, one-mile stretch every five miles so that planes 
could land there during wartime. Furthermore, all east-west 
interstates are numbered even, while all north-south interstates 
are odd-numbered. You can always figure out where you are 
because the east-west Interstates were numbered starting in 
the south, and the north-souths in the west (Route 1 runs 
through California). Pass it on.
tmmm mm
by Scott Adams
IF t SPENT MY ENTIRE. 
LIFE SEARCHING, DO 
YOU THINK, I COULD 
FIND ANYONE WHO 
WOULD CARE ABOUT 
THIS?
AS YOU GAIN 
EXPERIENCE, YOU'LL 
REALIZE THAT ALL 
LOGICAL QUE5TI0NS 
ARE CONSIDERED f 
INSUBORDINATION.
I HAVE A QUESTION 
ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT 
MARKED "PROPRIETARY/
of CoUPE IT'4 A 
LEG-ITIMATE PoRT.
BE6IDE6, WE'RE 
ACTUALLY DolNGTHEM A FAVoR BY 
KEEPINGTHEIR
c61eMVug69
IN CHECK...
I'M GOING TO HUNT \ 
DOWN THE PEOPLE WHO 
HAVE STRONG OPINIONS L 
ON SUBJECTS THEY DON'T 
UNDERSTAND. THEN I'LL 
BOP THEM WITH THIS C 
.CARDBOARD TUBE. J
THAT WOULD INCLUDE 
EVERYONE ON EARTH 
EXCEPT YOU AND ME.
WERE NoT 
&0IN& To Look 
AT IT UNTIL 
You UAVE A 
RATING6Y.TBA...
I HAVE A, NEW 
PERSONAL CRUSADE
LEAN
OVER
HERE
PEOPLE WITH BAD OPINIONSI WILL NOW USE THIS 
CARDBOARD TUBE TO 
EXPLAIN THE INTRICACIES 
OF CAPITALISM.
LESSON ONE:
THIS WAS SOME
THING THAT SHOULD 
BE FREE.
IT fcPPEARi TUAT 
TOE DEBATE oVER 
WHETHER MoDERN 
LITERATURE 14 
K MATTER oF ART 
oR COMMERCE 
HAS BEEN 
SETTLED...
THE INTERNET SHOULD 
BE FREE. WHY SHOULD 
I HAVE TO PAY SOME 
GREEDY CORPORATION 
OR LOOK AT ADS??!!
\vit=y
UH-OH. ALL OF THE STUPID 
PEOPLE YOU'VE INSULTED 
HAVE FORMED A MOB AND 
SURROUNDED OUR HOUSE.
THEY'RE TAKING TURNS \
PUTTING OUR HOSE IN I___
THEIR MOUTHS, t THINK 
THEY'RE TRYING TO DRINK
mr-\Frrml KLL 0F -i-LLJL] OUR WATER.
WE DON'T HAVE TO TAKE 
THIS ABUSE. LET'S SEE 
HOW LONG HE CAN 
SURVIVE WITHOUT WATER!
THE LACK oF 
CONCERN MAY 
BE DUE To THE 
FACT THAT
r6enl, 96u V
FLIGHTLESS 
BIRD, RALPH...
) - crkej AI wi+K
Oogber+
A MOB OF STUPID PEOPLE 
ATTACK DOGBERT'S HOUSE
HOW'S
THE
ATTACK
GOING?
THEY TRIED TO 
RUIN OUR LAWN 
BY SPRAYING 
WATER ON IT. 
BUT NOW IT'S 
TURNED INTO 
A HOSE FIGHT.
HEY, CAREFUL.' YOU'RE 
GETTING WATER ALL OVER 
THE GRASS ... J '
\ (WAIT, THAT n|
J GIVES ME AN!
\ NIDEAJ! (1
OUR PLAN TO DRINK ALL OF 
HIS HOSE WATER ISN'T f' 
WORKING./-.
--------------------1 iIDo unOJ IT"U ^OOGBERT
THERE'S NOTHING ! 
HERE TO DISTRACT 
ME. IT'S JUST ME
...AND W 
MY TALK1 
NG REFRIG
ERATOR. _r
I'LL &ET YOU 
CAN'T EAT A 
WHOLE JAR 
OF PICKLES.
AHHH... IT'S S 
GOING TO BE A 
GLORIOUS DAY OF 
TELECOMMUTING. ]
He cant commit to anything... not even 
a tv show.
Yknow, a simple Get lost! 
would have sufficed!
I Just want to know what I should wear 
Friday night.

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSdwd
Pedsby Mike Yeh
r " . T....11 _................................................ '"II----------- ----------------------------------11-----------------------------------------------------------------------kHMMM.,. OK.NO HUG. 
tUNNY WANN*, 6WNK?, OVER,/
BySHHAR MSILVET *..
Ouer the Hedge
by Michael emM & T. Lau/F6
aWfjaq, laie fn-lfe flloming
i& same-Hin^ rnksing ( ili 3n)f-ffiin (TIi:
i&tJ1 " te'- ,
|eVs e^n^rfhf./i rn
dofag, well '(n clS55. \\ie &. ,feo rteM' frayb-.^haAel?.e is
lta>rp ? . -S~*
(D iSQ $/ :'/ gf
O " ""
/Ipi V-/*
Mjty
-
/ ddflij,  was -tlirtVing) rtterms <eptoHoW) ^ frfftal Congcfan.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

by Jim Meddick
INSmV OF A KMC. TOW, IWTVAmAREFASTINSTD 
PROTEST THE OVERF1SHINS OF 
'--------TlNOpW RlfNTlC COD------------.rvtJvmat uprw. Ml she K%M
cou r teso y tfRF mNa
iFnlFRWhF NwureOUR POINT. kFTCPNOoN 
Sr__-A SMACKUM...VJHT DO \ TfA MOT ANSP/, 
NoU THINK THEY WNW LOVE/ 
USE IN THESE I BONDINS EHERS/ 
FISH STICKS? Y ISBECOW1N6
v. SvbWdiFCLq,dbyb m rIcHktlsH
SURSIE.. BBLORfffi SLW.6UW6W.S5LE RRSLLM.U...
HMHMHN.U JES9, ITS OK IFMOU 
TWS mu \UE THAT SOW OF THINS, 
, I BIT X FIMO THE 
CYBER8U!/ R0BOTNW" CHARACTER 
CRACKSWt A ROINS IT FORME...
ARENOU KIDD1N6?! A 
ROBOTMANS THE BEST! 
WS <6%1H5 WlARMUS.y
Sr/TTRuuC?T eccuiil^'1 U THINK I NEW SOME
V MR-
)g66$M
Pear Former partner of Robotin an, What it li Ke Working wi+h Robotmsn? 
^\ease Sign tt\e enclosed 3*S card ani; giM \t to Someone viW> wants your
oytogropVv ynCereW'^ fa0 ; 
Asyj, RoW"r>(>'r's :
TUP'S OK/TU-KEW 
tN6.r WAS IONS
As bNUWFNSFuuubNSTFNEF 
,pt THERE UNOER&TWDS!
0 NOub6697.L5ige if vou
ROBOTNW / REAO SOME FWi 
LEFT ME TO 1 tANUTMU, 
BECOME AN V CHEER YOU UPINTCWWWNL>rCELE&RITf WHILE / \ f
I W3T HERE IH , 'LZ J3BSCUWTY/ / I ^ 
welu.m. wcE,v.Tf bbto1 9 o3
gFddF1u
...4o BY LAYING off 
TUE RE4T of TUE 
ARMY, YoU TWO CAN 
PICK UP THE 4LACK 
oN SToRMING THE 
foRTRE M MAKE
RL vNddNR lSF1uux GREAT
&REKT M0MENT6 
IN BEAN-CoUNTER 
MANAGEMENT
-I vii=y1997 Wiicy Miller dist. by Washington Post Writers Group WE? SITE: http://www.wlleytooM3.com E-wall: wlleYCwlleytoona.com
I SOT A W\?YTN\*T0 
Or THE / TRACK DOWN wouxwoov / Robotman ano 
.surs .V/f CONVINCE HIM TO 
If-T2 I MME BACK TO 
%-Zi \ WORK WITH ME.
NUTS r THIS DOESN'T 1 AHH...I KNOVI 
HAMEMlSTOfi I I'LL DROP ?>i 
FOR ROBOTMW-S / SRAP PITT'S 
. ADDRESS.' A HOUSE ANO
S % a^^kcANt..
BRADPITT?PE.BUT]UEWUSWe MOVED. MY BEST
I KNOW A FEILER, /HOFE NOW IS TO tROCEEP TO
, LESTER JP1TT  /3IH TRAUER CIRCLE ECTENStON JTrW5>-^fASe5lFWl|>it)0Nt4AHAS
II ANV INF0..O rar-TTTrr^
viisy
|T'S...1T'S \ IT WAS TOUW WHEN JERRV ANV I 
THE HOST SPLIT, 6UT OTHER <SISS COME 
OF DEW ALONG... LIKE FC INSTANCE..THE 
MARTIN.'! "BOB HOPE CHRISTMAS SPECIAL.
B08 HOPE HASN'T \ WEL(-,THEN 
HAD A CHRISTMAS THERE'S MUMS 
SPECIAL IN VEASS^LNlStt-lN."
TSVEDf.ICWT 
FINDROBDTMANtW CAREER. IS _ 
 CNER.... 
TUE FIR4T 
LoNG-RAN&E 
WEA.TUER
uigEpS,
HEW\ 
WT 1
aeIDt fdAA
WDDO. I
Yw-q
CMViet nTgpSgWEteETLEKEPlE^E WtUSE PlEASE PLE45E o\s^j5y Please WL PLEASE
toWTMAM,HERETO ) Wffl WOULD I DO 
SET W TO ,NRF BACK /THAT NOW THAT I'M 
TO WORK WITH WE. y Ml INTERNATIONAL
Sr-W------SUPERSTAP.
Cl \WTH0UT VOO,
F"WlbF f. BNl NSndPnCC 
bviFCuYfwfSF WSh CFWh 
5st40 4 hfbbNbdYNldN 
AntEI POINT OF PHVSlCAU
rVfCCSFbbuuu
dwWd iWb flbd D 
CfddCFA bWRCFuuu
NEEDT CONTINUE?.
TUE 04ELF LIFE 
oF 1N4TANT FAME.
DAN&...
I KNOW UE 
WA4 oN TV, 
BUT I CAN'T 
REMEMBER 
WHICH 
4WoW...WRE.
vCl..fSbu
smy
olu -29euT6O IrR6ti FkeguM
We want to know what you want to be splitting your side 
about in the comics section. So this is your chance! Send this 
handy-dandy clip-out survey to us via campus mail and let us 
know!
rfcro^nii) wemti) ,Tvf+. edv f,
Siwr + ^Cilu,Ai/
1. Which comics do you read regularly? 
(circle em)
Carnegie Mellow
Doonesbury
KidF
Over the Hedge
Robotman
Zeroman
Dilbert
Ilios
Non Sequitur 
Peds
Stickworld
*S '+ ctnsj tvfprite +iy{^ fitryj*J 
\ QMt^rkifri &
fr* W\t-friflffife ty-J WiCMC -t-C
U|H^ ftr jdvHtttJo -rtc fafi.
Wo If II, phi*S V>t3 Fojniej
10,1 if-tUj  <4-(hav*- fttfn6iA n*n*i Ly/
2. What comics would you like to be reading regularly?
3. Are you a sheep? (circle one)
'v v Wi-tn W J3 7 Ri/ofry -Mie 
qoyftr+Mfn % Lti. u? rT h* 
tialVtZ - x-i-1-3 Sontttty Cv^nof be ,
4. How can we make you laugh?
Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17
send to:
http://www.andrew.cinu.edu/~newelJ/Zeroman
olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSd wS

---------------------------------------------------

Members of CMUs Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Community and their supportive friends join you in celebratingNational Coming Out Day
October 11, 1997 (Observed October 9th at CMU)
Come one, come all, come out!
Gay Jeans Day is Nov. 12.
cmuOUT (out@andrew) and this advertisement are funded in part by your not-as-straight-as-you-think-it-is Student Activities Fee
Tracy Futhey Ping Kong Li Brenda Graham Matt Bishop
Ask me about your 
toaster oven!
Kevin Cooney
Bisexual alumni in 
distant orbit around 
Pittsburgh
Tara JenningsMichael Loomis
Jan Hardy
Out for Good
Alon Lavie, Ph.D.
Zoe Woodworth
rebel without a clause
Dana Steer*
Absolutely Fabulous!
Shawn, Alison &/felissa
Nobody comes out ufitil I say so!
Teresa Dedolph
Hi, Mom!
/Alisa Kraut
<nd you thought it 
vas only guys in the 
Drama Department
Daniel Klein
If you really want to hurt your 
parents, and don't have the nerve to 
be homosexual, the least you could 
do is go into the Arts. Vonnegut
Stephen Ulrich
People are cool. I always like to 
meet more. Say Hi sometime. 
Allies Social Chair & 
cmuOUT Treasurer
Nick DeWitt & Lisa Bigelow
Support Honesty
Matt Messner
Cant believe everything 
you dont read
Donovan Chase
NCOD Picnic is Oct. 9th on the Cut
Laurie Dugan & 
Donna Riley
Your Friends from th^Stats Department
Youll find us rp every random sample
Lara Sprague
I'm just a grrrlAcademic Support, Fourth Floor, Warner Hall
Tom Meher
Um...hi!
Florence Taitel
Bad Wisdom
Duane Williams
Gay Research Programmer
Jeff Carpenter
Friends call me Droopy
Janel Hanmer
a typical dyke?
Ezzie & iloy
Straight but not iSIarrow
Seth Kingman
Its just a phase..\ 
the facial hair, I meaV
Todd Zimnoch
Kneebiter

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 92, Issue 6The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania6 October 1997
critics bad attitude
By NIA RODGERS
Tartan Staffwriter
F9kOu29i 9mQu me96i96t C6ii6r2fTrue story remedies
By FELIPE FORTES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I have to admit that I did not come into 
Seven Years in Tibet with a positive atti
tude. When people hear of this movie, 
they usually say something like Oh yeah! 
The new Brad Pitt movie. Now, I dont
 1997 TriStar 
Seven Years in Tibet opens October 8.
want to get into an argument with any 
Brad Pitt fans, but that reference does 
not make me very anxious to see a movie.
The film begins when Pitts character, 
Heinrich Harrer, embarks from Nazi
Germany on an expedition to climb the 
Himalayas Nanga Parbat peak. Harrer 
leaves his pregnant wife behind, and we 
hear Pitt say in a bad German accent, We 
have discussed this before, I am going to 
the Himala-YAS! Not too promising. 
Luckily, from that point on, the movie 
progresses by leaps and bounds.
Harrer and the expedition 
team led by Peter 
Aufschnaiter, played by David 
Thewlis, are sent off to 
Himalayas, where we see some 
breathtaking views of the se
rene mountains. This phase of 
the movie is cut short when 
World War II erupts and the 
British take the expedition 
team as prisoners of war. The 
crew is sent to a prison camp 
in the southern foothills of the 
Himalayas.
Harrer is determined to es
cape back to his home country of 
Austria. After many solo at
tempts, he manages to escape 
with another group of prisoners, 
including his former expedition 
captain Peter. Once outside of the com
pounds, Harrer leaves the rest of the 
prisoners to make his way alone to
wards the Himalayas.
Please see TIBET, page L13
zamM ilrLi l6sl tamii
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Philadelphia Story, which opened 
Friday in the Kresge Theatre, is a rich 
and enjoyable, if a little old-fashioned, 
romantic comedy about the aristocratic 
Lord family and the turmoil they go 
through when two magazine reporters 
come to write a story on how they live. 
The story centers on Tracy. Lord 
Dagmara Dominczyk) and her soon-toe second husband George Kittredge 
(Paul Domencic). The reporters have 
come to the Lord home to write about the 
upcoming wedding, but duringthe course 
of the play, Tracy begins to question her 
love for George when she is won over by 
the timid charms of one of the reporters, 
Mike Connor (Michael Zlabinger).
This leads into some of the plays subtextual issues of class and independence. 
Tracy is a fiery, hard-to-please, qickto-anger divorce who, through the 
course of the play, is softened into a 
more accepting, more yare (easy-tohandle) woman with a capacity to for
give human frailty.
To our eyes it looks as though Tracy 
goes from an independent, free-think
ing woman to a submissive and, well, 
yare wife.
But if one forgives Philip Barrys play, 
which is almost. 60 years old, the Drama 
Departments production of it becomes a 
moving experience. Superbly directed
by Dexter Fidler, the show is seamless 
and captivating. The actors make full 
use of the stage and S. Scott Welborns 
beautiful set, but they dont look as 
though thats what theyre trying to do. 
One never sees the actors at work, with 
the possible exception of Dagmara 
Dominczyk, who appears to be trying so 
hard for a high class voice, endlessly 
drawing out all the vowels, that she 
comes off at the start like a Katherine 
Hepburn impression.
But Dominczyk grew on me, and by 
the middle of act II, I was admiring her 
mannerisms and facial expressions, 
which spoke of her characters emo
tional turmoil. Equally convincing is 
Adam Donshik as C.K. Dexter Haven, 
Tracys first husband. He is clearly still 
in love with Tracy, but hides his feel
ings behind witty one-liners and aristo
cratic demeanor.
Another lovely performance comes 
from Terace Yeatts as Tracys younger 
sister, Dinah. She is utterly charming in 
her awkward attempts to be more grown 
up and in her adolescent obnoxiousness.
The production is visually impressive 
in all aspects: The costumes by Martha 
Pearanda are beautiful but not 
distractingly so, and David Manns light
ing design is refreshingly simple. All in 
all, under Fidlers direction, the CMU 
School of Drama has put together one of 
the finest shows Kresge audiences have 
seen in the last three years.
Three artists and a robot went ex
ploring in the wide, wild universe this 
summer. While Sojourner the rover 
scuttled around Mars, dutifully tak
ing pictures of cuddly rocks and red 
dirt, sophomore art students Emily 
Merz, Sam Wheeler, and Terry Young 
explored the worlds of their personal 
interests and perceptions. The prod
uct of their journeys, the collaborative 
exhibition Mission to Mars, was on 
display this weekend in The Frame, 
CMUs student-run art gallery.
Young and Wheeler invited me to do 
some personal exploring with their in
stallations. At the rear of the gallery, a 
green curtain with golden brocaded 
flowers veiled the entrance to Youngs 
installation, entitled Imprinting.
Through a curtain into the ante
room, the drone of a distant highway 
and the rumble of trucks emanated 
from a tin wash tub hanging on the 
wall. Above, a stylized bird peered 
down from a small print on the wall. 
Behind a white veil in a darkened 
room were three more tubs filled 
with water. Projected onto the rip
pling surface of the water were vid
eos of trucks, massive icons of speed 
and machined strength transmuted 
into wavering, silent transparencies 
rolling past on some unknown high
way. In the third tub, tiny goldfish 
chirped and chattered like birds and
Lisette ivmier-mxon/1 artan uarKroom Manager 
Mission to Mars, a show featuring installations and paintings by sophomore artj 
students (left to right) Emily Merz, Sam Wheeler, and Terry Young, opened Friday.;
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Wheelers installation, Defense, displayed in The Frame art 
gallery, was infused with a sexual theme and used crickets.
blissfully flitted to and fro, oblivious to 
the dump trucks barreling over them.
Leaving Youngs installation, I de
scended down the dark and narrow 
stairwell to the basement of the gallery 
to experience Wheelers installation, 
which he described as having a sexual 
theme with overtones of opposition and 
anticipation. The centerpiece of the in
stallation was a worn and naked bed.
Heaving up from a 
gigantic rent in its 
cover, a mound of 
corn kernels 
spilled onto the 
floor, a floor which 
was itself inches 
deep in more of the 
yellow seed. 
Trapped inside 
clear bulbs hung 
around the bed, 
pairs of small crick
ets chirped. Near 
the opposite wall 
sat a seatless white 
arm chair. Beneath 
the springs of the 
empty seat more 
corn poured onto 
the floor. Posted on 
either side of the 
chair like guards, 
bug zappers added 
their erratic crack
les to the rhythmi
cally suggestive 
noises emanating 
from the bed area.
In contrast to the 
stark sexual nature 
of Defense, 
Wheeler also con
tributed three 
paintings to the 
main gallery space. 
Two he describes as
iconic conglomerations that he ere-; 
ated with his parents in mind. Both! 
paintings use layers of paint, crayon,; 
varnish, and stencils on wood, with' 
color schemes augmented by splashes! 
of gold and the regular shapes of rect-i 
angles and dots. The third painting is a; 
study in blue tones with spaces defined 
by a piece of string.
Deviating from the abstractness of! 
Young and Wheelers work, Merzs con
tribution to the exhibition is a series of 
large, bright portraits emphasizingj 
light and shadow. In the center of thej 
gallery hangs Isaac II, a portrait ofj 
the artists brother. His skin glows a; 
healthy peachy rose color, and his eyes! 
seem to look upwards to some ideal! 
cloud in the blue sky. Yet he is inhu-i 
man, like an angel or a Noxema Com-j 
mercial.
The reality of Isaac II is further! 
eroded by his skewed angle on thej 
patchwork canvas, which Merz cre-j 
ated to question dimensionality, and, 
by the contrasting harshness and re-1 
ality of the other portraits: Zoe,i 
Olivia, and Isaac I. The roundness' 
and vulnerability of the wary features 
of Zoe are emphasized by the smoothi 
ness and light colors of the paint. Yet 
the visage is clouded by dark shadows; 
which obscure and flatten the face 
into the background.
The work exhibited by Youngs 
Wheeler, and Merz, in Mission to| 
Mars was awesome. I was im-j 
pressed by the way the exhibition! 
combined three visions without ob-> 
scuring or subverting any of theii| 
individual uniqueness and clarity J 
Mission to Mars gave me a de-i 
lightful taste of some of the talent iq 
the College of Fine Arts, and hope 
fully, the trio will continue to brin, 
back such great pieces from theiij 
artistic journeys.
blm9W Ru LreeM IrR6t traaut96r2 .raOip62f eutu29 l6i9reM
By PALAK SHAH
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
When judging art in todays 
world, everyone has their own 
two cents to contribute. History 
shows that some cultures have 
always been more receptive to 
certain art forms than others.
Mad, Fold 
This Book! 
Author: Al Jaffee 
Company: Warner 
Treasures
Frances government promotes 
graffiti and areas are even desig
nated for artists to tag up the 
walls. Yet, a thousand miles over 
the ocean, the United States looks 
at graffiti as a symbol of gangs 
and inner city violence.
There also exists an art form, 
which every American has picked 
UP at least once or twice, that is 
Ruite an indicator of the times.
The art form I speak of is Mad 
Magazine, more specifically, the 
fold-in pages of the book. For those
of you who have never had the joy 
of viewing a fold-in page, it is a 
cartoon that, if folded in, reveals 
another related comical cartoon.
Al Jaffee, the artist behind all 
of Mad magazines fold-ins, has 
compiled a book of fold-ins and 
named it Mad, Fold This Book! 
April of 1964 {Mad #86) began 
the long era of Mad fold-ins. Mr. 
Jaffee originally picked up the 
idea after seeing Playboy 
magazines fold-out of beautiful 
women. The cartoons caught on 
with the audience, and he went 
on to produce 33 issues with foldins until 1968.
Then the printer Bill Gaines 
wanted to move into color foldins. The concept was difficult for 
Jaffee to grasp, as he was used to 
working with black and white. At 
that time, the art form only re
quired manipulation of shapes 
and sizes, but color further com
plicated the spectrum of work.
After he was offered more 
money, he naturally adapted to 
the change, and almost all the 
issues that followed contained 
the infamous Mad fold-in.
Although most of us arent ter
ribly analytical of Mad maga
zine, when you actually 
begin to look at its 
inner properties, 
you can find a good 
indication of history 
at the time. Histori
ans might even ar
gue that Mad foldins are indicative 
of the culture and 
politics at the time 
of publishing.
Jaffee pokes fun 
at topics through
out history, such as 
the Tailhook scan
dal of the early 
90s, the pro
test movement 
of the 60s, and 
the Republican 
convention of 
1964. Po
litical 
figures, 
like Richard 
Nixon and 
Barry Goldwater, 
popped up often in his 
drawings.1997 E.C. Publications
There is more to the 
art form of creating 
a fold-in than 
merely matching 
two pictures to 
form one; it is also 
a literary art form 
that tends to re
ceive less praise 
from the reader, 
but it is equally 
complicated. 
Jaffees mas
tery of taking a 
continuous 
paragraph and 
folding it to 
form another 
continuous 
comical sen
tence is also 
worth accla
mation.
The 
folds y m - 
bolic of 20th 
century history. For 
example, in a picture published 
in July of1964, the question arises 
of how to go about dealing with
the overall obsession of the coujntry with the Beatles. Al Jaffees 
solution is for the Beatles to pre
maturely lose their hair. Al
though my interpretation might 
not seem all that comical, the 
illustrations done by Jaffee gjre 
outstandingly funny. In another 
interpretation of the times, J afl 
deals with the issue of unempU 
ment, which unfortunately fac,ed 
many college graduates in the 
early 90s.
The Mad series in general ap
pears to most Americans as sim
ply a humorous magazine, but I 
look it as a modern way of teach
ing and recording history. Al
though all our PhD-holding his
tory professors will probably 
take much issue to that state
ment, the fact that people w^nt 
out to spend money for the maga
zine should say something, j
Even though it is ridden with 
useful information and history, it 
is still a great laugh.
If youre a fan of Mad magazine, 
definitely go pick.up the bookj if 
youre like me and are a bit skep
tical, borrow it before spending a 
hefty $15.95 to own it.

---------------------------------------------------

u
"The power-hungry Undergrads are 
oppressing the Grad students!" 
%, _ rads vv/VH take tnf
tu9te th The Grab
^ monev and rU "Lazyr 
"There are no Grads on Senate, how can it be
representative! 
of us?",e \.'Oe
the GSA-Senate split 
questions answered 
student senate hour 
tues. 5 o'clock WRCT
"They're undermining nl # 
our system o -G \NW our ^ 
government! y se Vl
GM
4NTIFERROMAGNETIC FlLMS
Insi deiiFosir
, , CfdIAsNwhn-(Dmw'ivD Ion E'whing ^
Insi umoSF pFmtD
0F 36e W92,lIuV92 Rm,I, R,lSIT 36e 596O 
Lm,l,L,fl, p6Sg9C il6ST o92 cl,NgI,Mr 
Lm,l, L,fl, k,V2,2w
Rcad-Ritc is the worlds leading independent producer of 
data storage recording heads and assemblies. And were
intent on pushing our leading edge even farther.
Were dramatically expanding our 
Research & Development to meet the challenge 
of rapidly changing technologies. In disk applications, were 
accelerating the transition to Spin Valve, (jiant MR, Colossal 
MR, Spin-Dependent Tunneling detectors, and MagnetoOptics. And were pursuing multi-channel jecording and 
digital video recording for tape drive applications.
Weve embarked on long-reaching explorations of 
new technologies we know well need, as well as some we 
want to know all about - just in case.
Because were committed to writing at ever higher 
data rates, developing ever-more-accurate thin film deposition 
and controls, stretching the envelope of recording physics in 
new technology sensors, and pioneering new pathways in 
reducing error rates and establishing relationships to device 
characteristics.
If youd like to learn more about the opportunities 
in Read-Rite Research & Development, call us at 
(510) 683-7149. Fax us at (408) 956-2100. Or E-mail your, 
resume to steve.kohler@readrite.com.
Read-Rite is building a world-class body in 
advanced recording technology; drivers of innovation on a 
foray into the future, freely pursuing bold ideas. All to 
conceive the next head, ahead of its time.

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSd
CMU opera hits high note
By ROB PUNKUNUS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon School of 
Musics rendition of Claudio 
Monteverdis Coronation of 
Poppea is a powerful look at a 
classic opera. Despite the factthat 
the opera is in Italian, the sing
ers succeed in conveying the feelBattle and Luciano Pavarotti) at 
the Metropolitan Opera. Bachman 
also directed Faust with the Hous
ton Grand Opera and Madame 
Butterfly with the Cincinnati Op
era. In addition to directing, she 
is on the faculty of Blanche 
Theboms Opera Arts Training 
Program in San Francisco.
The opera is conducted by RobDespite the fact that the opera is in 
Italian, the singers succeed in convey
ing the feelings of the characters... 
through their skill in singing. 
ings of the characters to an En
glish-speaking audience through 
their skill in singing. The cast of 
the opera is made up of under
graduate and graduate students 
from the School of Music, led by 
Kevin Hanrahan, who plays 
Nerone, and Priya Palekar and 
Zanna Fredland, who are double 
cast as Poppea. They, along with 
,the rest of the cast, sing their 
roles with strength and skill. Be
sides the leads, other memorable
ert Page, a professor of Music 
and director of choral studies at 
CMU. He is also the music di
rector/conductor of the 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pitts
burgh and the director of spe
cial projects and choral activi
ties for the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra.
Coronation of Poppea takes place 
in Ancient Rome. In the opening 
scene the goddess Virtu argues with 
Fortuna about which one of them
parts were those of Seneca (sung has more power over mortals.
by both Sean Cooper and Daniel 
Klein) and Arnalta (sung by 
Donna Janusko).
Coronation of Poppea is directed 
by Elizabeth Bachman. She has 
directed with several opera com
panies in North America, includ
ing La Traviata (with Sherrill 
Milnes and Plcido Domingo) and 
LElisir dAmore (with Kathleen
At this point, Amor enters and 
criticizes the goddesses. An ar
gument ensues, and Amor be
comes determined to prove the 
power of love. To this end, 
Nerone, the emperor of Rome, 
and Poppea fall in love with each 
other. Poppea rejects her former 
lover, Ottone, and likewise, 
Nerone rejects his wife, Ottavia.
In love with Poppea, Nerone 
tells her that he will divorce 
his wife so they can get mar
ried. Poppea then sings of the 
joy of becoming empress. 
Arnalta, her nursemaid, 
warns her not to be too over
confident with her chances of 
becoming empress.
Now the action switches to 
_ Ottavia, who is sad about 
being abandoned by 
Nerone. Drusilla, Valetto 
and Seneca all try to com
fort Ottavia by offering her 
different advice. Next, Sen
eca goes to Nerone and tells 
him that he should not be 
^ led by his emotions. Nerone 
says that he will marry 
Poppea no matter what any
one thinks.
Later, Poppea, worrying that 
Seneca might stop her mar
riage, tells Nerone that Seneca 
claims he is true ruler of Rome. 
Enraged, Nerone orders 
Senecas death.
Now the audience sees Ottone 
depressed over the fact that he 
lost Poppea. Drusilla enters and 
tells him that it is what he de
serves for ignoring her love for 
him. Ottone, determined to do 
the right thing, proclaims his 
love for Drusilla.
As the opera approaches its 
climax, the audience contin
ues to see the power of Amor in 
the actions the characters are 
willing to take for love.
The Coronation of Poppea 
was staged in Alumni Concert 
Hall, this weekend.
Black comedy at its finest...Morbid film amuses writer
By RYAN DONOVAN
TartanAssistant Diversions Editor
Sometimes, in the desert, 
people just go crazy for no good 
damn reason. This line, said by 
one of the most insignificant 
characters in Oliver Stones new 
movie U-Turn, sums up the 
mood of the film: crazy.
What: U-Turn 
\ Director: Oliver Stone 
1 Company: TriStar Pictures
The movie, starring Sean 
Penn, Jennifer Lopez, and Nick 
Nolte, along with a swarm of 
other recognizable stars, follows 
a small potatoes hustler (Penn) 
whose car breaks down in the 
middle ofthe Arizona desert and 
is forced to make his way in a 
small town while his car is fixed 
by a dim-witted mechanic 
(played wonderfully by Billy Bob 
Thorton). Once in town, he meets 
the beautiful and alluring Grace 
(Jennifer Lopez), and thats 
where all the fun begins.
U-Turn is a masterfully con
voluted movie, which leads the 
viewer through every fetid ab
scess of the human psyche. 
But the movie isnt exactly 
what youd expect from Oli ver 
Stone, director of Natural 
Born Killers. Unlike Killers, 
this movie can safely .be called 
a comedy, albeit the blackest 
comedy in existence.
The comedic aspects arent
what one would normally expect. 
The morbid and perverse become 
funny: a sex scene with the dead 
husband watching the action, a 
brutal beating, and a man being 
left to die. Through masterful tim
ing and performances, these ac
tions are pulled off as comedic.
On the down side, some of the 
delivery of the story seemed to 
want to be more serious than it 
should have been. The movie has 
a series of black punchlines, 
leading up to the iiber-cool 
kicker at the end. But there 
were times that the film tried to 
be serious and the audience just 
laughed at it. Maybe that was 
the point, just to get all of us to 
laugh at the morbid, the repul
sive, the truly depraved, and 
show us how ever-present it is 
within ourselves.
The highlights, though, are the 
performances themselves. And 
the performances are good be
cause the characters are so well
drawn. And the characters are 
so good because the script and 
plot are amazingly done. The 
result is good actors in good roles 
with a good script. You cant go 
wrong. Kudos to Nolte as the 
scummy husband, Penn as the 
wiseguy whos really a loser, 
Claire Danes as the ditzy coun
try gal, John Voigt as the blind 
Indian, and everyone else whp 
appeared on the screen for mor,b 
than ten minutes.
Besides the amazing cast df 
name stars, Oliver Stones other 
film trademark is present: th 
cinematography. The way the 
whole movie feels is solidly Oliver 
Stone. Every non-plot item here 
reveals his touch: the music, th 
editing, even the choice of cam
era filters is distinctly his, and iii 
this movie, it works great. Even if 
you dont like some of his stylistic 
techniques, youve got to admire 
the guys innovation and preci
sion in filmmaking.
1997 TriStar Pictures 
Grace McKenna (Jennifer Lopez) shares a lustful moment with 
Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) in the new movie U-Turn.
Overused melodies clutter album with mediocre songs
By RYAN KELLOGG
Tartan Staffwriter
The Bottle and Fresh Horses, the lat
est offering from the Refreshments, revminds me of a cheap pizza: The anticipa
tion of that first bite is high, but the 
r'taste is surprisingly bland.
Who: The Refreshments 
What: The Bottle and Fresh 
Horses
Company: Mercury Records
Not that the album is badits just so 
average. Modern rock fans will remem
ber the Refreshments from their 1996 
break-out hit Banditos, a song with 
entertaining lyrics, fresh concepts, and 
a downright catchy tune. For the most 
part, unfortunately, the new album fails 
to recapture this  the lyrics border on 
cheesy, the concepts are recycled, and 
most ofthe tunes leave the listener more 
sleepy than enthused.
The first track, Tributary Otis, is 
solid, but its just not very interesting, 
which basically sums up the whole al
bum. Preachers Daughter is the old 
clich of bad-boy-falls-for-good-girl, of
fering no new insight. Songs like Buy 
American, Una Soda, and Fonder 
and Blonder are prime examples of 
lyrics that are just silly. Your hair 
seems to get just a little bit blonder? 
Come on.
You have to give the band some credit
 they mix the typical rock chords and 
rhythms with a uniquely Southwestern 
flavor, so the album isnt completely 
rehashed.
They take this to an absurd extreme, 
however, with Horses, a song that 
sounds like it was stolen from a drunk 
ranch hand.
Still, sticking close to the formula 
isnt necessarily bad, provided its done 
with some emotion. This they accom
plish with Dolly, a song thats fun to 
listen to despite its lack of adventure. 
Birds Sing shows flashes of lyrical 
brilliance and blends the groups West
ern style well.
Broken Record is ironically the 
albums best song, standing out amongst 
the repetitiveness. Its the only one
where the listeners dont find 
themselves hoping the song will 
end soon. A funny story (No, 
Im not a quarterback/Im not a 
fireman/Still I could have any 
girl in Japan) combined with a 
great beat and melody easily 
make it the best song on the 
CD. But for unknown reasons, 
its buried deep in the 13-song 
monotony at track 12.
The rest of the songs fall 
somewhere between Broken 
Record and Una Soda as de
cent but fairly boring.
Even the stronger songs fail 
to approach the level of 
Banditos or even the theme 
music they recorded for the Fox 
show King of the Hill, so the 
album is something of a disap
pointment. Overused storylines 
and melodies ensure there is 
little thats refreshing about 
this CD. Unless you dont al
ready know what rock music 
sounds like, leave this one on 
the shelf.
mw'
jfWl5  ^ *21
courtesy of Mercuiy Records 
The Bottle and Fresh Horses, the Refreshments new album, has a Southwestern flair.
SHIPPINGSBFAX
u
COPIESgSTAMPS
UPS AUTHORIZED SHIPPING OUTLET
MAIL BOXES ETC
pE SPECIlLIZE IN PlCKINL & SHIPPINL CsyPbTEJS psJLDpIDE 
IgoamgVoFigV1 yivFgn & CmVoFgn *bPS, ea7 Ex Vg7 DHL
'PmFvVoa yVF1bix JagoV16 'Lir IgoamgVoFigV1 Piga JVoa6
'PioicipMFgnl6 Lir V6 30/cipM Ig6oVgo PV66pimo Pioi6
'Sag7 im JacaFva eVxa6 'pa6oamg bgFig SamvFca6
*Call us about our student specials* 
414 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes Ave. & Carnegie Museum) 687-6100
MAILBOXESsOVERNIGHT0OFFICESUPPLIESE*PACKING
SlfPPl.TEShgA,l-urhlVIIhV92
Denis Colwell, Music DirectorJOLLY OLD ENGLAND
You dont have lo cross the ocean or even like Steak & Kidney pie to enjoy great and familiar 
tunes from the British Isles. Holst, Vaughan Williams and Elgar are just a few of the
composers featured on this RCBB program of musical riches from England....with Scotland
and Wales joining in on the fun! Bagpipe Soloist: James McIntoshF3onHc3'W vIov:DH  B zC
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL - OaklandEast  
j| Liberty 
j Presbyterian 
11 Church
The Cathedral offtope 
Penn and 
Highland Avenues
A New Vision 
of the Universe: 
ACosmic 
Journey Through 
Space and Time
View the awesome beauty of the 
universe through spectacular colored 
slides and films. Trace the path that 
leads from the Big Bang to the mystery 
of life and explore how this new cosmic 
vision influences our conception of God.
Presented by Dr. Eric Carlson, 
Astronomer at Adler Planetarium 
in Chicago.
Saturday, October 11 9:00 am-3:00 pm 
Sunday, October 12 9:30 am-ll:00 am
$30 in advance 
S35 at the door
$25 Students with ID/Senior Citizens
Includes continental breakfast 
and lunch on Saturday
For tickets or information, 
call 441-3800.CMU STUDENT SAVINGS 
$5 RCBB STUDENT RUSH TICKETS
Available to CMU students presenting valid I.D. between 6:45  8:00 PM 
on October 4 at the Carnegie Music Hall Box Office.

---------------------------------------------------

American Management Systems
College Recruiting Program
4050 Legato Roacl
Fairfax, Virginia 22033
FAX: (703) 267-8555-nrail: ains_recniiting@mail.amsinc.com
AMS is committed to excellence in the workplace 
and to the policy of equal employment opportunity.am5
? www.amsinc.com
bM find oui more about Tf/rndytio. .sec us on campus or vinci your 
resume to: Toradyiu-, Inc.. Attn: University Relmlons,
321 Harrison Ave.. Boston,' MA 021 l. r-mail: 
loan.oclaviPturadync.com An equal opportunity i-mployvt.www.teradyne.com
WE'RE COMING TO YOUR CAMPUS SOON!
See your placement office for details.
If you're the type that thrives on new 
challenges, you'll feel right at home in 
our environment. We're a global busi
ness arid IT consulting firm where the 
pace is fast, the opportunities are hot 
and the clients we serve are at the top 
of their fields.
With 7,500 employees, 53 offices world
wide and revenues approaching $1 billion, 
there's no better place to discover just how 
far your talent can take you.
Make plans to see us
on October 9, 1997
at the following programs:
MATT Presentation for GSIA Students
Bach Auditorium (Room 152)
12:30 pm -1:30 pmCorporate Presentation for Heinz Students
West Wing TV Lounge 
5:00 pm - 6:30 pm
Joint Reception for GSIA and Heinz Students
Rachel Walton Mellon Room 
7:00 pm - 9:00 pm
big technology. Intelligent tesi programming i-nvl
moments. High s|xitl digital iiisinimcnts. Next generation 
superchips. And more. Teradyne isypnr source for innovation, 
quality and leadership in Automatic Tesi F,(|iiiptm*nt. complex 
cohnwi.itn svsiems and telecommunications and softwaiv 
test. Our abiliiv td bring the most excijjng products to market 
startld more than -10 years ago with the introduction of the 
lirsi automatic diode tester. Since then, we've continued to 
set the standard with products such as the first tester with 
tester per pin architecture. the Industry's first million dollar 
tester and the world's largesi most complex backplane. 
And all the while continuing our excellence in innovation 
recognized bv the.K & D 100 award for the revolutionary 
tester device docking system.
big CUStOmerS. While we can't possibly name them 
all. we help today's leading electronics companies deliver their 
products to a fast-evolving market. Whether ii's automotive 
electronics, cellular phones. PC's, or computer networks. 
Teradyne is the power behind the products. Were a world
wide presence working in partnership with all the big names.
big possibilities. To an engineering or business grad. 
Teradyne represenls the opportunity lo gain real involvemenl 
on real projects from day one. As soon as you join us. you 
will benefit from an informal culture where creativity and 
teamwork prevail. Whether vour specially is Software. 
Hardware. Mechanical, or Application Engineering or 
Business. Teradyne perfectly suits your background. We have 
exciting opportunities in all our locaiions from California to 
Boston, and even internationally.
not-sobig name

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m2 , Ime2us6u Cuaar2 n26guei69M , U vt9ryue SSdw/
DH 2210
r i"" i * JLLUJC
movies you may have seen before...
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, October 9
Breaking the Waves
For those of you who missed The Kingdom, when it 
screened at the Harris last year, look out! Lars von 
Trier is Denmarks answer to David Lynch. Know 
this: The man started shooting a film in 1991 that 
uses a three-minute shot from a different city in 
Europe every year for 33 years. The 99-minute film 
is expected to be released in 2024.
So this movie is another oil-rig romance in north
ern Scotland. Bess loves Jan so much that she 
wishes he will come back from the rig for good. She 
ought to have been more careful what she wished 
for, as Jan comes home paralyzed with a broken 
neck. So, obviously, the two arent really getting it 
on much anymore, so Jan urges Bess to bring brawny 
guys home so he can watch.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, October 10
Swingers
This movie is so money. Its written by Jon Favreau, 
who plays Mike, a New Yorker who just moved west 
to pursue a career as a bad stand-up comic after 
breaking up with his girlfriend of six friggin years. 
The guy is miserable. Luckily he hangs out with a 
bunch of drunken rabble-rousers who spend all 
their unemployed time getting womens digits. Vince 
Vaughn plays the asshole in the bar and does a 
terrific job.
Amazingly, the director was also the director of 
photography. (I know you care.) The flick is the apex 
of independent filmmaking and a brilliant lampoon 
of life in Los Angeles.
At 8,10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Saturday, October 11
Trial and Error
Michael Richards and Jeff Daniels star in a com
edy where an actor attempts to pretend hes a 
lawyer to save his drunken friends ass. The ad 
campaign claims its the second most outrageous 
trial in history, so I guess the first would have to be 
the Scopes Monkey trial. Or the Pamela Anderson 
Lee breach-of-film-contract case.
When did Jeff Daniels agent decide that he was 
only going to get him roles in goofy-ass comedies? 
Ever since Arachnophobia, the guys been popping 
up in the most unlikely places, usually playing the 
straight guy to some whacked-out hipster doofus. 
Does anyone think hes funny? Thats what I thought.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Sunday, October 12
Zardoz
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Sean Connery, in 
his most challenging role ever. And as an added 
bonus, I give you John Boorman, director of such 
notable filmic explosions as Point Blank, Deliver
ance, and Excalibur.
In a future Metropolis-like world, humankind is of 
course divided into brutes and gentlemen. But when 
a nasty case of the flu hits the gentlemen, they lose 
all interest in polo and sex with gentlewomen and 
just lie around watchingMcHales Navy all day and 
eating Fritos by the wheelbarrow load. Thats when 
super-brute Sean Connery kicks into action (aw 
yeah), crossing the eternal vortex and ripping the 
space-time continuum with his bitching accent.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
Those arent pillows!
(Bite your teeth into the ass of life!  Ian Holm 
in Big Night)
Album breaks no new ground
By ANDREW FRANCIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The past decade has seen an 
influx of new musical styles that 
have shaped the face of modern 
rock-and-roll, from alt-rock to 
punk to metal and even rap. The 
new EP Forever Up, from altpunk band Stem, tries to com
bine each of those styles into 
about 25 minutes of music with 
limited success.
I Who: Stem j What: Forever Up 
 Company: Ignition 
I Records
For the most part, Stem seems 
to be striving for the rap-metal 
fusion that defines such popular 
acts as 311 and Rage Against the 
Machine. Perhaps the fact that 
those are two of my favorite acts 
makes Stem seem even more dis
appointing. Stems rhythm sec
tion, consisting of Edd on drums
and Bill on bass, provides a de
cent foundation for their tunes, 
but seems to lack the drive and 
the punch that would drastically 
improve the bands sound. The 
first two tracks, Pinch and 
Drop the Bomb, both feature 
solid guitar work from axeman 
Skat and some interesting hooks. 
However, they are nearly devoid 
of anything that would really 
inspire a listener.
As the six-song disc nears the 
end, the album grows even slower 
and more ponderous. The 
songwriting changes more to
wards heavy metal than alterna
tive metal, which makes the rap
ping of frontman Ocean seem that 
much more out of place.
While Pressure Fits, the 
next-to-last song on the album, 
progresses slowly and never re
ally establishes a groove, 
Ground is a heavy-metal 
style completely lacking any 
hook or riff.
In addition to the music, 
Oceans lyrics have little or no 
depth to them. They evoke stan
dard punk themes of misguided 
aggression, and Oceans 
annoying delivery takes 
all of the urgency out of 
the message. A casual 
listener might be too dis
tracted by the challenge 
of searching for a melody 
to pay any attention to 
what Ocean is saying.
Stem certainly has the 
right elements and styles 
to be successful, but the 
music simply has no 
bouncenothing that is 
really engaging and ur
gent. Fans of the Stem 
(assuming they exist) 
may argue that the reason311andRage Against 
the Machine are more 
successful is because they 
sold out to the public. 
However, it is my opinion
that Stem is largely unheard of 
simply because they dont have 
any material that can really incite 
fans to give them a listen.
courtesy of Ignition Records 
Stem strives for a mix of rap and metal.
Movie surpasses stars image
) 1997 TriStar Pictures 
Brad Pitt (right) stars with Jamyang 
Wangchuk in Seven Years in Tibet.
TIBET, from page Lll
Harrer travels alone through the 
Himalayan foothills stealing food and barely 
surviving. One day, in a remote part of north
ern India, he encounters Peter once more. The 
British had recaptured all the remaining es
capees, so Peter had set out in search of 
Heinrich. Peter and Heinrich embark together 
towards Tibet.
They eventually sneak into the Forbidden 
City of Lhasa, where no foreigners are allowed. 
They are soon welcomed by the nobles of the city 
and invited to begin new lives for themselves 
after their long journey. Heinrich and Peter 
become unofficial architects and engineers for 
the Tibetans. Peter marries a Tibetan woman, 
and Harrer becomes a close friend and semi
official tutor for the then-teen-aged Dalai Lama.
This film does a wonderful job of giving view
ers insight on Tibetan culture. It captures the
beauty of Tibet and the pure simplicity of 
their culture. The film is crafted to make Us 
empathize with the Tibetans. The people, anil 
customs that are described in this movie a|e 
extraordinary, and the viewer actually be
comes caught up in Tibetan society.
Seven Years in Tibet is based on a true stow 
written by Harrer himself. The actual Heinrich 
Harrer and the Dalai Lama remain friends to 
this day. At the end of the film, viewers are 
reminded that one million Tibetans have been 
massacred by the Chinese, who also destroyed 
many monasteries.
Those with short attention spans migiit 
find it difficult to sit still for this 135-minute 
movie. The movie kept my interest through
out, and I found the plot well-crafted. I defi
nitely recommend it for those who are inter
ested in Tibetan culture, or just like to hear'a 
good story.
Actors return home
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
As I made my way towards 
my seat for the Friday night 
showing of Love Letters, I felt 
both underdressed and under
age. I scanned the crowd of 
people my parents age for a 
familiar face and finally found 
some: the ushers.
After being so distracted, I 
only casually glanced at the props 
on McConomys stage: a rug, two 
wooden desks, and chairs in front 
of a black curtain. As the lights 
dimmed and only a soft blue re
mained, I found myself asking, 
How much acting can you do 
behind a desk?
As Jill Eikenberry and husband 
Michael Tucker (A 66) would 
demonstrate: plenty.
Eikenberry, as Melissa 
Gardner, and Tucker, as Andrew 
Makepeace Ladd III (Im not 
making this up) engage in a life
long relationship that starts in 
second grade.
After an awkward apology writ
ten to Melissas mother, Andys 
first letter, the pair quickly de
velops a fondness for each other. 
The play lets the audience dis
cover their young age, with a 
comic flair thats alive from be
ginning to end.
Will you be my Valentine? 
writes a young Andy.
Are you the one who wrote me 
the letter that said Will you be 
my Valentine?  Melissa writes 
back. If so, then I will, unless I 
have to kiss you.
These first exchanges left me 
happy and stunned. Of the two, 
Eikenberry especially came 
across child-like, instead of 
merely childish.
Now well have to write let
ters, which I hate, says the ar
tistic Melissa, who encloses pic
tures with her letters, including 
those of a bedpan, her cat, and 
Andys dog Porgie. She prefers 
the telephone, meeting in per
son, and therapy. All this letter 
writing has messed us up. Its a 
bad habit.
The play progresses through 
history and their lives.
Rather than let the letters tell
the whole story and appear con
trived, the play lets the audience 
read the characters. In a rela
tionship that spans over 40 years, 
even Andy and Melissa have 
their secrets. They periodically 
stop writing, and more than one 
letter starts, Did you get my 
last letter?
Eikenberrys face turns tremen
dously dead-pan and melts into 
anger while Tucker reads his 
mass-mailing of a yuppie Christ
mas greeting. The performances 
were terrific to watch in the close 
quarters of McConomy, where the 
actors were just a few feet away 
from the front row.
It was wonderful, Liz Bolton, 
one of the younger faces in the 
audience, said of the performance.
As the more loquacious of the 
two, Andy writes a lot. But, oddly, 
its Melissa who has more to say, 
as Tucker plays the straight man 
to her jokes.
I should have known youd 
join the navy; now, once again, 
you can be with all boys, Mel
issa tells him.
Later, when Andy runs for Con
gress, she asks, Are you getting 
stuffy and all self-important?
Ive decided to write laws, which 
are, after all, the letters civiliza
tion writes to itself, Andy replies.
Yes, you are getting stuffy, 
Melissa concludes. To his credit, 
Tucker played up his wifes per
formance, never over-perform
ing his role as Andy. In the end, 
Tuckers Ladd never quite grows 
up; he still talks in much the 
same voice as a youth as when 
hes a senator. Melissa seems to 
grow old and cynical early, but 
maintains an emotional depen
dence on Andy.
For the plays finish, 
Eikenberry is called upon to 
add a level of personal fear 
and embarrassment to the 
story, and succeeds powerfully.
The audience agreed, giving the 
performers a standing ovation be
fore the lights came on, which 
spoiled any hopes for a curtain 
call. Peter Frisch, head of the 
Drama department, described the 
performance as having a depth 
of feeling that transcends the 
roles in the play.
History, versatility 
define acting skill
THE CRITICAL EYE
by Alex Lewin
The story goes like this.
Dustin Hoffman starved him
self for three days so that he 
could better portray Babe, the 
protagonist of Marathon Man, 
who is captured and tortured 
by an escapedNazi named Szell 
(Laurence Olivier). Szell is a 
dentist and tortures patients 
with his tools. After days in 
captivity and more than one 
torture session, Babe is beyond 
exhaustion. Hoffman hoped 
that fasting would produce a 
comparable fatigue. But while 
shooting one of the torture 
scenes, he was having trouble 
remembering his lines, and 
they had to cut many times 
and start again. At one point 
between takes, Olivier looked 
down at Hoffman and said, My 
dear boy, why dont you try 
acting. Its so much easier.
Like most Hollywood folk
lore, this tale could be false 
just as easily as it could be 
true. And, like most Hollywood 
folklore, it doesnt really mat
ter if its true or not  the 
storys the thing.
But the anecdote raises in
teresting questions about act
ing. To what extent should an 
actor share the feelings of his 
character in order to make his 
portrayal realistic?
What constitutes good act
ing? Well, we know it when we 
see it. How do we know it? We 
believe the actor he or she is 
genuine. Thats what Hoffman 
was going for, after all. And 
Hoffmans performance in 
Marathon Man is perfectly 
good. He creates a believable 
and sympathetic character, and 
we dont see him at work.
On the other hand, we can 
look at a performance that ev
eryone pretty much agrees is 
terrible: Keanu Reevess in 
Bram Stokers Dracula. (Or 
Keanu Reeves in anything, ex
cept maybe Parenthood.) His 
portrayal of Jonathan Harker 
is stiff, expressionless, unin
teresting. We never know what 
hes feeling or why he does what 
he does. Do we really believe 
hed be dumb enough to spend a 
week in a big, empty, gloomy 
castle with an old, emotionally 
unstable, big-haired Romanian 
count who casts no reflection 
and sleeps all day? Reeves is 
simply not genuine.
But what about somebody 
like Bruce Willis? Hes been 
playing the same role since Die 
Hard: the tough, everyday guy 
with a quick wit, but who oth
erwise keeps to himself. He 
plays the role well, which is 
presumably why he keeps play
ing it. But does that make him 
a good actor?
A difficult question. Certainly 
Bruce Willis is good at what he 
does, but so was, say, Laurence 
Olivier. And Olivier, who could 
play anything from Nazi den
tists to lonely billionaires, did a 
lot more than Bruce Willis does. 
So much more, in fact, that the 
comparison seems quite ridiculous. History remembers 
Laurence Olivier. Will anyone 
remember Bruce Willis in 50 
years? Probably not. If Keanu 
Reeves is remembered, it might 
be as the worst actor of his 
generation. Dustin Hoffman, on 
the other hand....
Perhaps thats how we rec
ognize good acting  in a per
formance we remember. Or a 
performer we remember. But 
good actors and good perfor
mances often tend to slip 
through the cracks. Gary 
Oldman in JFK. John 
Goodman in Barton Fink. 
Michelle Pfeiffer in The Rus
sia House. Lets remember 
these, for the actors sake.

---------------------------------------------------

October 6, 1997
gp Breaking the WavesHI
will play at 7:30,10 pm, and
 12:30 am on Thursdaynr
H in McConomy Auditorium.m
Swingersm
S will play at 7:30,10 pm, andm
12:30 am on Friday in
 McConomy Auditorium.
m
Sara
 will play at 8 pm on Friday andm
M 2 pm on Saturday at them
Carnegie Museum of Art.am
M Trial and Error
will play at 7:30.10 pm, and
12:30 am on Saturday
 in McConomy Auditorium.m
Double Indemnitym
1 will play at.8 pm on Saturday W
and 2 pm on Sunday at the(U
Carnegie Museum of Art.P
mm
Zardoz
will play at;8.10 pm, andm
M midnight on Sunday inm
McConomy Auditorium.oi
 Lights of New York/m
St. Louis BluesKtswill play.at-7 pm on Sunday at
 the Carnegie Museum of Art.m
mThe Graduate
0 will play at 8.10 pm, andm
 midnight on October 16 in
m McConomy Auditorium.
Hercules
m
 will play at 8.10 pm. andm
m midnight on October 17m
in OH 2210.m
gi The Jarm
will play at 8 pm on October 17
 and 2 pm on October 18 at the
a Carnegie Museum of Ait.
Nothing to Losem
B will play at 8,10 pm, andm
midnight on October 18
 in DH 2210.
IB
A Night at the Opera
ft
m will play at-8 pm on October 18
1 and 2 pm on October 19 at them
Carnegie Museum of Art.m
M All Quiet on the Western Frontm
will play at 7 pm on October 19
 at tho Carnegie Museum of Art
H
Angel, Angel, Down We Go
i
m will play at 8.10 pm, andV
1 midnight on October 19 inm
McConomy Auditorium.m
University CALENDAR
....you have been ousted 
from my pants....
Duke& 1uiz & Pet 
. First we take over Vox Pop ... j 
i Then we take over 
) THE WORLD!!!
-K.
....the monkeys, they do 
not a-do-it ... they 
make-a looove....
....its "Vox Pop, NOT Pop Vox.
Happy 2iST Tracer!
Good Job Anneth :) 
Designated Cutes!
HI ENA!
....OW! Oh that's 
where my dart 
went!!!! 
....am I peeing 
on you too 
much?....
You can advertise for free 
in The Tartan!
If you Know of an event on or off cam; 
; pus that has relevance to the campus ! 
community, mail It to The Tartan, Box i 
17 in the Carnegie Mellon University Center or email auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu 
by Thursday at 5 pm.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the en
tire campus community! To submit a vox, 
simply send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via 
> campus mail, drop it in the Vox Populi 
drop box on the infamous Tartan Server,
; or email it to au)vung@andrew. cmu.edu. 
i Vox Populi would like to publicize the 
free dirt that is available on the Cut. 
j There are many uses for dirt: dirt milk,
. dirt cake, and dirt Jell-0. Get yours now!
Leap into midsemester break 
with other silly people doing 
other silly things like this silly 
guy to the right.
Ryan Catholic Newman Center will be 
hosting an Undergraduate Program from 
6:15 to 9 pm on Wednesday. The program 
Consists of Mass followed by a free buffet 
dinner and a discussion on the Catholic 
faith. For more information, call 681-3181.
maV7Fgn6amFa6
Common Grounds Coffeehouse: Fall 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Andrena Zawinski and Sharon McDermott 
on Tuesday, October 7. Open poetry will 
take place at 8 pm and scheduled readings 
at 8:30 pm. For more information, call 
Common Grounds at 362-1190.
Nickel Beer Night. The student under
graduate reading series has started. On 
October 18 from 4 to 5:30 pm, Richard 
OKeefe, a former faculty member, will be 
reading in the Adamson Wing. Also fea
tured are undergraduates Brandy 
Humphrey, Stacey Jenkins, Jill Khoury, 
David Osorio, Megan Parke, and Deanna 
Rubin. An open alumni reading will fol
low. For more information, email Deanna 
Rubin at dr4b+@andrew.cmu.edu.
mu6aum6
Trek of Tears is the newest exhibit on 
display at the Hewlett Gallery. Featuring 
color photographs by Post-Gazette photog
rapher Martha Rial, the photos document 
the ongoing migrations in Rwanda and 
Burundi. The installation will be shown 
until October 29. For more information, 
contact Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
UC Art Gallery is going to exhibit the 
work of alumnus Jeffrey Dorsey through 
October 17. His show Sincerely will docu
ment his worlt since graduation. Also, 
Lifes Dreams, a West-African Batik 
show by local artist Saihou Nije, will be 
on display from October 19 through 31.mu6Fc______
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
open its new season on October 27 with 
the Julliard String Quartet at Carnegie 
Music Hall. To order tickets, call 624-4129.
University Chamber Orchestra will be 
performing music by Beethoven, Busoni, 
Henry Cowell, and Greg Scheer at a con
cert on October 15 at 8 pm in Bellefield 
Hall Auditorium. Admission is free.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society 
will present The Gabrieli Consort & Play
ers with music director Paul McCreesh in 
Festival Music for San Marco 1615, a glo
rious program on Renaissance vocal and 
instrumental music on October 25 at 8 pm 
in St. Paul Cathedral. Tickets are $8 for 
students with an ID, or range from $15 to 
$22. They can be purchased by phone at 
682-7262, at the Pitt Student Union, or at 
the door. For more information, contact 
Polly McQueen at 682-7262.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
will be featuring pianist Misha 
Dichter in their program Born 
in the USA on Thursday at 7:30 
pm, Saturday at 8 pm, and 
Sunday 
at 2:30
pm at Heinz Hall. This program will show
case the works of great European compos
ers, like Sergei Prokofievs fairy tale opera 
The Love for Three Oranges, inspired by 
their experiences in America. On October 
23, 24 and 26, the program A Night in 
Vienna will revive the charm and magic of 
old Vienna. Stephen Kovacevich will be on 
the piano performing such works as the 
First Concerto by Johannes Brahms. For 
more information, call 392-4900.
World Music, sponsored by the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Department of Music, 
will showcase Indian classical music with 
Sipra Bose doing vocals, Sohanial Sharma 
playing the harmonium and Gobina Bose 
using the tabla at a concert at 6:30 pm on 
October 26 at Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. 
Tickets are $10, $4 for students. For more 
information, call 624-4125.
Bach Cantatas will be featured at a con
cert at 3 pm on October 19 at Heinz Chapel. 
Don Franklin, conductor, along with the 
Collegium Musicum, the only choral group 
in Pittsburgh to perform regularly with 
period instruments, will perform the Mass 
in G Major and Cantata 176 by J. S. Bach. 
Tickets are $5, $3 for students. For more 
information, call 624-4125.
Music on the Edge, sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Department of Music, will fea
ture Rolf Schulte on the violin performing 
works by Davidovsky, Carter, and 
Stravinsky along with many others. The 
concert will take place on October 14 at 8 
pm at the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. For 
more information, call 624-4125.
oaVoam_____
La dernire bande, a play in French by 
Samuel Beckett, will be performed in Eddy 
Theater at Chatham College on Tuesday, 
November 4 at noon under the auspices of 
the Alliance Franaise of Pittsburgh. For 
tickets and more information, contact Pro
fessor Sylvie Rockmore at x8-4066 or the 
Alliance Franaise at 365-1129.
A Private Audience With is a new play 
by Maijorie Stewart about a meeting be
tween Queen Victoria and Mark Twain. 
Put on by the Thoreau NMA Production 
Company, it will be playing at Victoria 
Hall, Friendship through October 26. For 
more information, call 922-8289.
Ballet Hispanico, presented by the Pitts
burgh Dance Council, will take place at 
the Byham Theater on October 24 at 8 pm.
Tickets are on sale at the UC 
nformation Desk for 
$10. There is a limit 
of two tickets per 
CMU ID. 
Transportation 
will be prov i d e d . 
The
photo courtesy of New
bus departs from the UC parking circle at
7 pm and returns immediately following 
the show. For more information, call x8- 
8704.
The Philadelphia Story is the School of 
Dramas first production of the season and 
is playing at the Kresge Theatre through 
Friday. For more information, call the box 
office at x8-2407.
A Grand Night for Singing is a musical 
revue of Rogers and Hammerstein num
bers. It is taking place at the Mountain 
Playhouse, Jennerstown through Sunday. 
For more information, call (814) 629-9201.
The Learned Ladies by Molire will be 
performed at Kresge Theatre from Octo
ber 13 through October 25. A benefit per
formance will take place on October 20 at
8 pm. Tickets are $5 for students, $10 full 
price. For more information, call the 
Drama box office at x8-2407.
Hair is being put on by Gargaro Produc
tions at Byham Theatre through Sunday. 
For more information, call 261-1444.
The Raft of the Medusa is Joe Pintauros 
AIDS drama. It is being performed at the 
University of Pittsburgh Studio Theatre 
through Sunday. For more information, 
call 624-PLAY.
Children of a Lesser God, a play by Mark 
Medff, is being performed by the Little 
Lake Theatre Company through Saturday. 
For more information, call 745-6300.
Tambourines to Glory, by Langston 
Hughes, is being performed by the Kuntu 
Repertory Theatre at the Stephen Foster 
Memorial Theatre through Saturday. For 
more information, call 624-7298.
Africa Shout: Voyage will be presented 
by Umoja African Arts Company at Byham 
Theatre on October 17 at 8 pm. Tickets 
range from $10 to $24. For ticket infor
mation, call 323-1919.Vmiug7
Penn and Teller will be making things 
disappear at Byham Theater on Novem
ber 2 at 8 pm. Tickets range from $25 to 
$30. Tickets are available by calling 
Ticketmaster at 323-1919.
Ringling Bros. Barnum and Bailey will 
be performing at the Pittsburgh Civic 
Arena from October 22 through October 
26. Tickets range from $5 to $25. For tick
ets, call Ticketmaster at 323-1919.
The World Wrestling Federation 
will have a lot of large, ugly people 
that will be ready to rumble at the 
Pittsburgh Civic Arena on No
vember 14 at 8 pm. For ticket in
formation, call 323-1919.
John Hancock Tour of 
World Gymnastics Cham
pions will make a stop at 
the Pittsburgh Civic 
Arena on November 30 
at 3 pm. Tickets range in 
price from $15.50 to 
$35. Photo and video 
cameras are not per
mitted. For ticket 
information, 
call 323-
igcVmpu6
Roman Catholic 
Mass takes place 
every Sunday at 
and 8 pm in Posner 
Auditorium. It will also take place
Monday through Friday at 12:30 pm in the 
UC Chapel.
Student Dormitory Council is having its 
next meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
in the Connan Room in the UC. Partici
pating in SDC enables interaction with ad
ministration on campus issues and plan
ning campus events. For more informa
tion, contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC Public 
Relations, at x2-3003.
Kaffeestunde, or German Coffee Hour, 
will take place on Tuesdays from 3:30 to 
4:30 pm in the first-floor eating area in 
the UC next to the pool. People who speak 
or are learning German are welcome to at
tend. Contact Professor Anne Green or the 
Department of Modern Languages at x8- 
5669 for more information.
Mesa Espaola, The Spanish Brown Bag 
and Conversation Hour, will take place ev
ery Tuesday from 11:30 am to 12:30 pm in 
the first-floor eating area in the UC next 
to the pool. It is hosted by faculty mem
bers Zulema Zattoni and Bladi Ruiz. Ev
eryone is encouraged to come share Span
ish conversation as well as meet other 
Spanish students. Contact the Depart
ment of Modern Languages at x8-5669 for 
more information.
La Table Franaise. Come and join in 
French conversation every Monday after
noon from 5 to 6 pm in Skibo Coffeehouse. 
All those with an interest in and knowl
edge of French are welcome. For more in
formation, contact Professor Sylvie 
Rockmore or the Department of Modem 
Languages at x8-5669.
Advisors and Mentors, the next part of 
the 1997-98 Graduate Student Seminar 
Series, will be taking place on Thursday 
from noon until 1:30 pm in the McKenna 
Room in the UC. Omer Akin, professor of 
architecture, and doctoral students 
Vanessa Hill (GSIA) and Monica RuizNoriega (Biological Sciences) will present 
tips and answer questions on choosing an 
advisor, working (and getting along) with 
an advisor, how to change advisors (if nec
essary), and the difference between advi
sor and mentor. Lunch will be provided. 
To register, email Kathleen Minadeo 
Johnson at kmj+@andrew. cmu.edu no 
later than 5 pm today. Specify that you will 
be attending Advisors and Mentors, and 
indicate if you require a vegetarian or ko
sher lunch. Due to space constraints, you 
must have preregistered to attend.
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, will 
be holding fall freeroll practices each Sat
urday and Sunday morning until Novem
ber 16. Tech and Frew Streets, as well as 
the portion of Schenley Drive surround
ing Flagstaff Hill, will be closed from 6 to 
9 am on those mornings. Community 
members are asked to find alternate routes 
and parking around campus. Cars left in 
the metered areas at 6 am on those dates 
will be towed.
PBJam, an annual fund-raising event 
sponsored by Hillel, will take place on 
Wednesday from noon to 4 pm by the 
Fence. The goal is to make 7,000 peanut 
butter and jelly sandwiches to be donated 
to various food banks. For more informa
tion or to volunteer, email Marcie Solomon 
at msolomon@andrew.cmu.edu.
ma1FnFig
Midnight Manna is a half-hour contem
plative worship service held in the UC 
Chapel on Thursday nights at midnight. 
Midnight Manna features scripture, mu
sic, and prayer. This week features the 
music of Estonian composer Arvo Part. 
Midnight Manna is sponsored by the 
United Campus Ministry of Pittsburgh.
Choral Compline will be performed by 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir at Heinz 
Chapel on the Pitt campus at 
8:30 pm on Sunday evenings.
The prayer at the close of the day 
is the way that the church 
good night. Jeffrey Johnson of 
East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church will be the guest organ
ist on Sunday. Brent Ruka of 
the First Methodist Church in
Shadyside will be the guest or
ganist on October 19. For more in
formation, call 682-6886.
