rsBOfe
BUY 
TECH RECORDS 
AND
GRAPHICA CARDS011)? daran
GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 
TO-DAY 11:30 
MUSIC HALL
VOL. XVI. NO. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1921
NOTED LADY 
AT CHAPEL
Miss Jane Addams, Noted 
Social Worker, to Address 
Students at Chapel Service 
Next Monday
FOUNDED HULL HOUSE
On Monday, Carnegie Tech will be 
highly honored by the presence of 
Jane Addams of Chicago, director, 
since its foundation in 1889, of the 
Hull Housethe great Chicago settle
ment. The Hull House' was the first 
of settlement houses to be founded, 
and it was founded by Miss Addams 
and .Ellen Gates Starr. Miss Addams 
will speak at the next chapel meeting 
in the Arts theater, which will be 
held at the usual time, Monday, at 
12:45.
Miss Addams is of great interna
tional fame, having been elected pres
ident of the International Congress of 
Women at the last congress when 
it convened at Geneva, Switzerland. 
In addition to being President of the 
International Congress, she is chair
man of the Womens Peace Party; 
member of the International Commit
tee of Women for Permanent Peace; 
member of Executive Committee of 
the American Union Against Militar
ism, and was president in 1919 of the 
National Conference of Charities and 
Correction.
Jane Addams graduated from Rock
ford College, Illinois, and since has 
received degrees from the University 
of Wisconsin, Smith College and Yale 
University. She has been inspector 
of streets and alleys in the vicinity of 
the HullHouse in Chicago, and is a 
writer and lecturer of international 
fame on social and political reform. 
Among her books are, Democracy 
and Social Ethics, Newer Ideas of 
Peace, Spirit of Youth and City 
Streets, Twenty Years at the Hull 
House and A Long Road of a Wom
an's Memory.
Miss Addams is a forceful speaker 
and has a valuable message for every 
student at Tech.
GIRLS ATHLETICS AT ARTS
Perhaps it sounds funny to hear 
of athletics at Arts but (if, the ' in
terest shown at the meeting held 
Monday may be taken as an indi
cation there is no doubt that girls' 
athletic^ will receive a big boost 
during the present year. It was an 
_ enthusiastic gathering '"full of pep 
and if only a part .of what is aimed 
at, is attained, it will mean a big 
step upward. First interest seemed 
.to be centered on the girls' varsity 
basket ball team,. This team1 is dis
tinct from th Tech girls varsity 
which is composed of any girls from 
either Arts or Margaret Morrison.
Margaret Morrison also lias a 
varsity team which corresponds 
with it. It is also expected that 
some sort of insignia may be 
awarded at the end of the season 
for those who make the various 
teams which will probably include 
swimming, bowling and hockey.
That's the spirit, girls!
JOINT COSMO. CLUB
Plans have been nearly completed 
for the consolidation of the Pitt and 
Tech Cosmopolitan Club. Those or
ganizations have been closely related 
in tlie past and it is not surprising 
that they should desire a complete 
union. A committee has been ap
pointed at Tech, ana one will be 
chosen at Pitt this week. In a few 
weeks or less a meeting of the two 
olubs will be held at which lime the 
committees will make reports on a 
constitution and government.
From all indications the union 
should be effected before the first of 
the year. If this occurs a delegate 
will be sent to the Convention of 
Corda Fratres Association of Cosmo
politan Clubs which will beheld at 
Minneapolis on December 27. He wilil 
-ask that the combined clubs be given 
a membership without the usual year 
of probation as the Tech Club is al
ready a member.
In the schools of higher education 
in the city of New York the Cosmo
politan Clubs are associated in the 
Inter-Collegiate Cosmpolitan. Club. 
If this plan materializes, a similar 
association could be founded in Pitts
burgh. At present there are several 
schools which have no clubs, but 
would soon develop interest in them 
if it has not been done already.
Several prominent citizens of Pitts
burgh have expressed their interest 
in such a union and have offered their 
services. One of the ideas is to have 
a club house where the members of 
both schools could meet often. This 
is a most favorable time for such a 
move, as it should aid in the plan for 
better relations between the two 
schools, already started.
MELLON HALL CHAPEL
For several weeks the girls of the 
Mellon Hall have been holding short 
services after tc-a on Sunday even
ings. They have some special music, 
short d' irtnnis and occasionally a 
short ti ' the girls or an
outskhq a
These Vou very popular at 
Mellon and might well be taken up 
"by other houses.
SCHOLARSHIP ANNOUNCEMENT
The Miller Saw-Trimmer Company 
of Pittsburgh, Pa., through Mr. F. F. 
Nicola, president, and Mr. P. C. Dunlevy, vice president, has established 
a scholarship in the Department of 
Printing and Publishing, Carnegie In
stitute of Technology.
Under the terms of the scholarship, 
which will be known as the Miller 
Saw-Trimmer Company Scholarship, 
200.00 will be available yearly dur
ing the life of the scholarship, to be 
awarded each year to a regular stu
dent in the department, who, in addi
tion to high scholastic standing and 
good character, gives evidence of ex
ceptional mechanical ability.
NEW SCHOOL 
CONFERENCE
225 Colleges Meet in Chicago 
to Organize National Dis
armament Conference
ADOPT RESOLUTIONS
DRAMA PARTY 
FOR VARSITY
Entertainment For Football 
Men to be Given by 
Drama Dept.
Still another party for the football 
men, but this one is so unique and 
pleasing in its originality and with 
the prospects of ono wonderful time 
that the men, even though the squad 
hasdisbanded, have accepted the in
vitation and are anxiously waiting 
for the event to happen.
It is to be a theateivsupperette 
party to be given by the Drama De
partment, Friday night, December 
ninth,, in the Little. Theater of the 
Fine Arts building to all of the 
Varsity football team, the coaches 
and managers. During this past 
season the men have always found 
the Drama Department an interest
ing place to visit, so to make them
selves better known to the team 
and to help show their appreciation 
for the work they have done, this 
party is being given.
The boys are to meet in the \ 
Round TaMe Room in the Arts Build
ing at seven-forty-five, where the 
upper girls will meet them and take 
them to the theater to see a perform
ance of Pierre Patelin. This (play 
should be enjoyed, it is very funny 
and as Ross Hertz has the lead, it 
will make the farce brighter for 
them in that they know him so /well. 
After the performance a supper and 
dance will be given on the stage.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
The principles and operation of 
thevarious iparts of an automoblld j 
were very clearly illustrated and 
explained Jn a five-reel exhibition of 
fmot}on pictures shown at Industries 
Assembly last Wednesday. Anyone 
who saw the pictures must certainly 
understand the steering, spring sus
pension* differential gear drive, and 
the principles of the four-cycle auto
mobile motor. The pictures were 
'extremely clear-and careful in their 
presentation of so mechanical a sub
ject. They were obtained through 
the courtesy of the Military Depart
ment.
Class and organization announce
ments followed the pictures. Presi
dent Godden asked for an appropria
tion to put the piano in 'shape. Mu
sical features and good speakers are 
in ordOr^for the coming assemblies. 
It is urged that all Industries men 
make a particular' effort to attend 
the future meetings, for the efforts 
that are .being made to get notable 
speakers warrant a hearty interest.
CAMPUS WEEK PLAN
Considerable time was; devoted by 
the Student Council at its meeting 
this week to a discussion of com(bining campus week with com
mencement week. This change would 
result in more> of the alumni being 
able to come back to Carnegie in 
the spring and enable them to take 
part in both events. It would also 
give the undergraduates a share in 
commencement week and still leave 
them a full week in which to pre
pare for final examinations.
The students are promised some 
very ' interesting and unsual enter
tainment at General Assembly this 
week by the committee in charge.
A permanent committee composed 
of Ruthanna Anderson, Dan Cassidy, 
Al Drieux and David Mudget has 
been appointed to handle all ques
tions of disarmament. The appoint
ment of such a committee was 
made necessary because of the vari
ous student disarmament conferences 
which have been held and will be 
held in the future.
The entire, football squad wishes 
to extend tlreii thanks and apprecia
tion to the. girls of Forbes Hall for 
the royal good time they had at the 
dance given in their honor on Sat
urday night.
The fellows feel that such enter
tainments will go far towards keep
ing-the men interested in Carnegie 
and will prove a good influence in 
causing them to remain in school.
Two hundred and twenty-five col
leges in conference assembled at Chi
cago, Illinois, on November 13 and 14, 
1921, to organize The National Stu
dent Committee for the Limitation of 
Armaments. Its purpose shall be 
to stimulate among college students 
an interest in the issues confronting 
the Washington conference, and to 
mobilize and make articulate student 
sentiment relative thereto.
It shall seek to achieve these pur
poses by: (a) Furnishing speakers
on disarmament to the colleges, (b) 
Preparing pertinent syllabi, (c) En
couraging meetings for study and dis
cussion. (d) Conducting simultane
ous straw votes expressive of under
graduate and faculty opinion, (e) 
Doing whatever else will, in the opin
ion of the executives, further the 
cause of international disarmament.
The following resolutions were 
adopted:
Resolved, That the National Convo
cation of Universities and Colleges on 
International Relations, including rep
resentatives of more than two hun
dred universities and colleges assem
bled at Chicago, November 12, 13 and
14, 1921, desires to express its deep, 
appreciation of the importance and 
significance of the step which the 
President of the United States has 
taken in calling the conference at 
Washington on the liinitatitfn of ar
maments and related matters.
Resolved, that this convocation ex
presses with unqualified enthusiasm 
its hearty approval of the auspicious 
beginnings of the conference already 
made, and of the words of the Presi
dent and of the secretary of state,  
which express, we believe, not only 
the purposes of the administration, 
but thfe heart and conscience of the 
people of America.
Resolved, That iif tlie opinion of 
this conference it, is a matter of su
preme consequence and of happy au
gury that various .nations of the world 
have sent their delegates to Washing
ton to discuss the limitation of arma
ments and to dispose of existing diffi
culties that piay menace the peace of 
the world.
Resolved, That It is our belief that 
the subjects to .be discussed by tho 
conference at Washington deeply af
fect the welfare of the world and that 
the students, alunini and faculties of 
the colleges and universities hero 
represented, most earnestly hope that 
In tho spirit alroady shown every ef(Contlnued on Page Three.)
LAUDER MAY BE AT ASSEMBLY
Every effort is being made to get. 
Harry Lauder, the famous comedian, 
who is in Pittsburgh to entertain at 
General Assembly today. Mr. Carl 
W. Ackerman, the famous war corre
spondent of Washington, D. C., will 
talk to the students. In addition 
there will be musical numbers. Al
so the football team will bo award
ed letters at. this time. This will 
be a very interesting assembly and 
all students are urged to be at the 
Music Hall at 11:30.
JUNIORS PLAN 
FDR PROM
Three Schools Committee 
FormedRepplier 
Chairman
From present ihdications the Jun
ior Prom of this year should be a 
great success. The committee has 
been formed, Anderson^ Bowman, 
Thompson and Brillhar| representing 
the Science Division; Fisher and 
MacDonald representing Industries, 
Bowers and Ivrjeislo representing 
Arts. The chairman is Repplier of 
Industries. The ^committee met last 
Tuesday.
This year, a flat: fee of $1.50 is be
ing levied on every Junior iu the 
three divisions. The money secured
in this way will1 
meeting such 
tlons and the net
go a long way in 
impenses as decoraisary comps. With
will be able to; 
cheaper which w 
larger crowd,
this sum of money the committee
make the tickets 
11 tend to bring a
PROF. WORK SPEAKS 
AT A. I. te. E. THURS.
NEW RADIO SET 
FOR COLLEGE NEWS
Last Thursday! evening tho Tech 
branch of A. 1. E. E. held its third 
regular meeting ;!of the year. The 
Constitution Committee comprising 
A. Martlions, chairman; L. J. Whiteheard, V. C. .Toh'nston, submitted) a 
new constitution; After some dis
cussion several j amendments woro 
proposed and the] report accepted.
Profossor Work gave an Interest
ing lecture on the use Of the Kelvin 
Brldgo lu alternating curront meas
urements. Specific reference was 
made to Its use in determining tho 
resistance and inductance of oablos 
to bo used in long distance trans
mission.
At the closo of tho address tlio 
meeting was adjournod and a pleas
ant social hour followed.
SCIENCE SENATE MEETING
At the Science Senate meeting 
last Thursday a committee com
posed of J. D. Evans and H. W. 
Bryan1 was appointed to act as cen
sor for all departmental papers such 
as the Short Circuit and the Gear 
Groan. These .papers are required 
to bring the tracing of the issuei be
fore this committee before they are 
to be panted.
The Radio Club of Carnegie Tech 
held its regular meeting Wednesday, 
November 30, In the Radio Room of 
tho ToWer.
The meeting was one of the boat 
held this season and a great deal was 
accomplished. Committee was ap
pointed to put up an aerial suitable 
for long distance receiving, with in
structions that no excuses will be ac
cepted for any delay.
Captain Walker of the Military De
partment was present, and offered 
several very good suggestions which 
were accepted and immediately put 
into effect.
The committee appointed to take 
care of the erection of the aerial as 
well as the construction committee, 
appeared on the campus early Satur
day morning and earnestly went to 
work to carry out the plan which was 
unduly delayed uip to that time, name
ly, that of installing the Radio Receiv
ing set for the Radio Club.
The receiver installed is of the lat
est type and will enable the dub to 
receive messages from amateur and 
college radio stations from practical 
ly all over the country. When the ar
rangements are completed for the 
operation of the radio transmitter the 
school will be able to get into com
munication with most of the large col
leges having radio stations in oper
ation.
Arrangements are being made to 
make the College News Radio Service 
available for the Tartan, so that 
school news of other institutions will 
be received, and happenings on our 
campus and items of Interest broad
casted from this school.
It is up to every radio man in school 
to boost the Radio Club. Come to 
the meetings and make this organiza* 
tlon one of the strongest Radio or
ganizations among the colleges in the 
country.
v In order to enlighten those that 
may need light on the matter we will 
give you theIdea. Radio Club real
izes that in order to have the or
ganization work at its maximum efflclepcy it Is necessary that the mem
bers get acquainted and understand 
each other, threfore the arrangoI merit was made to have a table In tho 
Beanery for the use of the Radio 
! men so that they can come together 
and talk Radio, thereby get to know 
each other and consequently work to
gether to make Tech, the . college 
ahead in the radio field. 
i So. it is up to you Radio men to 
come to that table and get acqualnt1 Continued on Pase Three.)
ALUMNI FEDERATION
SPEAKERS AT MID-WEST
CLUB MEETING
The Mld-Wost Club in accordance 
with Its special program for this 
yoar has obtained the co-oporatlon 
of the Alumni Federation for an 
open mooting next Tuosday night, 
December 13. The iclub realizes that 
it can bo of groat assistance to tho 
school both in the organization and 
co-operation with . alumni and also 
In obtaining first class scholastic and 
athletic material for Tocli. Tholr 
plans to carry forward tho later 
part o/f their program will be / ex
plained by a member of tho dub. 
What can be done by the club to 
aid the Alumni Fderation will be 
outlined to those present by Mr. 
Til brook, Mr. Batman or both.
This meeting the Mid-Westerners 
feel should be of Interest to all 
those who hall from points other 
than In the Pittsburgh district and 
with this in view the meeting was 
declared open. Special Invitations 
are herewith issued to the Buckeye 
Club, New England Club, Potomac 
Club, New York Club and their
members to be present in a body, 
or individually represented. Any 
other organization or individual that 
might be interested in helping their 
school in the above manner is cor
dially Invited to attend. The time 
and place of meeting will be an
nounced upon the oampus during the 
present week.
TEKNON CLUB
At the T.eknon Club meeting last 
Thursday evening several interesting 
talks were given. Mr. Chu, who is 
a student at Tech, gave a very in
teresting talk on the people and re
ligion in China. He emphasized the 
fneed in China of the Christian re
ligion and th hearty support of the 
missionaries in China by the Chris
tian organizations in America.
Dr. Goheem, a medical missionary 
'to India, gave the members of the 
.club some idea of the scope of his 
work combatting disease in Tndia.
Six or eight members of the Stu
dent Volunteers from  Pitt woro 
guests of tlie club and Mr. Cob uni, 
President of the Student Vespers 
Service at the First Baptist Church, 
gave a short talk In which he in 
vited all of the members of the Tek
non Club to come to the services, j 
The next meeting of the Teknon ; 
Club will be a business meeting and 
every member is urged to attend, i 
Y" SWIM 
The Y. M. C. A. swims, which aro 
held weekly, on Wednesday nights, 
are held for all Tech men who can 
swim, float or wade and for those 
who wish to learn Go to the Sohenlev Hicrh school. Bjliefteld and Center 
avenP. at 7-efl m. tonlcht and 
you will be well faipn re of.
TAU BETAS 
PICK MEN
Nine Seniors Honored by Tau 
Beta Pi at Science Assembly. 
Mr. E. D. Dreyfus Speaks
LYMAN, HIGH SOPH,
Last Wednesdays Assembly in tho 
College of Engineering was devoted 
to the annual Tau Beta Pi exercises 
on the occasion of the announcement 
of the elections from the Senior class. 
Senate President Blesch turned tho 
meeting over to Director Mott, who 
introduced the speakers, Mr. E. D. 
Dreyfus, Consulting Engineer for tho 
West Penn Power and Railways Com
pany. Mr. Dreyfus told of the mean
ing of Tau Beta Pi and of its value 
to the student body. He showed what 
qualities an engineer should have to 
succeed and to elevate his profes
sion and he explained the value of an 
incentive to excel.
At the conclusion of Mr. Dreyfus 
address Director Mott announced tho 
election to Tau Beta. Pi of the follow
ing men of this years Senior class: 
N. E. Allen, H. A. Beck, J. L. Her
man, A. D. Jenner, E. H. Johnson, J.
E. Kenney, F. H. kartell-, W. R. Mills, 
J. F. Nation. As these elections were 
announced Professor McCullough, of 
the Department of Civil Engineering, 
decorated each of tho men with a 
pledge pin.
Profossor Tiinlcs, of tho Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering, told 
how it has for many years boon a 
pustom for him to present a slide-rulo 
to the Sophomore who lias maintain
ed tho highest scholastic standing in 
his Plebo yetlr. Ho explained how 
tills had earned for him tho titlo of 
Silde-Rule Trlnlcs. Mr. Lyman, of 
the Electrical Engineering Section. 
Was tho recipient of tho gift this year.
The elections to Tau Beta PI aro 
based upon scholarship, integrity, 
personality and ' activities. To bo 
eligible to election a man must havo 
maintained scholastic standing Invtho 
upper quarter of his olass, but a good 
record ol scholarship alone Is not suf
ficient. To bo elected ono.must havo 
a record of Integrity and must havo 
rendered somo service, to tho school 
in othor than class-room activities.
ATTENTION, PLEBES
All Plehes aro askod to bo out on 
Friday night, in the Y. M. C. A. club 
room, Room 124-A Industries, and 
talco part In tho discussion group undor Al. May. Tho subject for discussion Is Student Standards of Action. 
This courso Is ono that Is of groat 
benefit to tho now student and solves 
many of tho llttlo dllllcultlos that 
arlso.
TARBELL REPRESENTS 
FRATS AT CONFERENCE
Denn A. W. Tarboll roprosontod tho 
Carnoglo Institute of Technology at. 
tho Thirtoonth Intor-fraternlty Con
ference hold at the Hotel Pennsyl
vania, Now York, Novombor 25 and 
20. About two hundred ddogates 
from national fraternities, with a 
group of v collogo officers as guests, 
attended this annual meeting for tlio 
discussion of questions of mutual In
terest, and to make recommendations 
for new fraternity developments, es
pecially with regard to their relations 
to tho colleges. Oiflcors for the Con
ference, were: Chairman, D. R. Almy 
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon; secretary.
F. I-I. NymOyer of Zeta Psi; treasurer. 
W. M. Musgrave of Alpha Sigma Phi: 
educational adviser, Dean T. A. Clark 
of the University of Illinois. 
SCIENCE PLEbI
CLASS MEETING
Last Wednesday after Assembly, 
the Science PlebeS held. a class 
meeting. The Sophomores) took the 
roll. This taking of roll by the 
Sophomores has made attendance at 
class meetings almost perfect, as 
absence means several hours work 
on the athletic field.
After several reports were made 
by the various standing committees, 
the main business, of the meeting, 
that of adopting' a constitution Was 
brought up. The committee that has 
been working on a constitution pre
sented it to the class for approval. 
After some discussion it was adopt
ed with several minor changes. It 
has been given to the Student Sen
ate for approval. President Moessner closed the meeting with a few 
words concerning the payment of 
class dues.
BRIGHT OUTLOOK FOR 
THE R. O. T. C.
Next semester you wont have to got 
up early In the morning and drill with 
stiff hands and cold feet, nor will 
you have to drill In the evening un|.ll 
almost dark. A better schedule Is 
being arranged, which will milt every 
fellow, and will make drill more at
tractive, From now on tho R. O. T.
C. department In going to be a more 
stable institution here at Tech, and 
will offer a more* attractive course.
Colonel Brooks has arranged to 
make a trip to Washington, D. O., 
where he will secure the natty blue 
uniforms which have been spoken of 
before. These uniforms will super
cede the rather inconvenient khaki 
uniforms now sippjifd. Thev will be 
h^h comfortable and attractive.
FORBES HALL FOOTBALL PARTY
The girls of Forbes Hall entertained 
tho football squad Saturday night at a 
dinner dance. The affair was novel, 
and it was clovorij? arranged and 
carried out by Ruth Schonclc, Holon 
Duncombe, Priscilla Alloson and Emmabelle Hancli. Tiny footballs and 
balloons were used as favors. Tho 
dinner was served by volunteer mem
bers of the Sophomoro and Freshmen 
lasses and Joe Gardener furnished 
music for dancing. The party was 
very informal and it can pretty safely 
bo said tlttat a good time was had by 
all.
MUSICIANS TO 
SELL RECORDS
Sale of Tech Records Will 
Finance Musical Clubs 
Easter Trip
Starting today, a campaign has 
been launched to sell tho Tech Rec
ords which ai'o now on hand and 
ready for delivery. Every noon in 
the lobby of tho contra! building 
there will be someono who will 
havo yours ready for you. Every 
Tech man or woman should get ono 
of these records not on;y for them
selves but for their friends. These 
records make splendid Christmas 
gifts and would be appreciated by 
tho receiver as i\o othor prosent of 
its kind would.
The Musical clubs aro planning1 
an oxtondod Easter tour and In or
der to realize) tholr plans they are 
taking this means of mooting somo 
of tho expenses of such a trip. No 
other organization advertises Tech 
bottor than tho clubs so that if you 
are a real Tocliito and a booster you 
will come across with your dollar. 
Tills Is a clmnco to show your 
school spirit by backing the clubs. 
Its right here for you, If you dont 
got ono, It aint no fault of ours.
The clubs will start tholr 1021-22 
season 'with a tryout concert at. Mayvlow on Friday night. The concert 
will bo Informal and will bo followid by tho usual Frolic of tlio 
Nurses. Sixty mon will bo takon 
and tlioy will leave Fourth avonuo 
station at. 5:15. Dinner will' bo 
served at May view. Those who 
have boon on previous trips report 
a woll spent evening so that tlio now 
men will havo a treat In store for 
thorn.
Tho photographs of the clubs, of 
tho oxocullvo committee and of tho 
novelty orchostra will bo falcon Sun
day aftornoon at 2:30 p. m., In tho 
'exhibition room of tho Collogo of 
Flnoi Arts.
GYM SITE 
SELECTED
Mr. H. H. Hornbostel to De
sign Building. To be Built 
in 3 Units. Probably 
4 Stories
NEXT TO ARTS SCHOOL
Y ACTIVITIES
THE Y" CLUD ROOM
Tho Y. M. C. A. club room, 124-A 
Industries, has proved of grofit value 
to tho students of tho various col
leges, Its use as a study room Is 
dally Increasing, tho average attend
ance for that purpose bolng about fifty 
each day.
Some of tho organizations which 
havo hold mootings In tlio "Y club 
room aro:
Mid-Western Association.
Cltmas. Club.
Student Council.
Science Senate.
Discussion Groups.
Student General Cabinet.
Cosmopolitan Club.
Debating Club.
Scalp and Blade.
Industries Executive Council.
Junior Prom Committee.
Organizations wishing tho use of 
the club room are asked to make res
ervations a few days In advance.
FACULTY PERSONALS
Dlredtpr Bingham, Dr. Yoakum and 
Dr. Thurstone wore at the National 
Research Council in Washington, No
vember 21, In attendance upon the 
annual meeting of the Personal Re
search Federation..
Dr. Yoakum gave one of the princi
pal addresses on Experiments in Vo
cational Guidance. Dr. Thurstone 
spoke on Selection of Candidates for 
Admission to Engineering Schools.'
Dr. Bingham presided at a session 
on Personal Problems in the College. 
This session was largely glvfcn over 
to a consideration of the Dartmouth 
plan of vocational, educational and 
personal guidance.
In that College, the entire time of 
two members of the faculty, with full 
professional status, is devoted to sys
tematic personal Interviews with stu
dents regarding their choice of occu
pations, their choice of studies, and 
the best ways of removing their 
shortcomings In personal effective
ness, social acceptability, aggressive
ness, dependability and othor aspects 
of personality and character,
President Walter Dill Scott of 
Northwestern University visited his 
former colleagues of tho faculty hero 
on November 23. He conferred par
ticularly with Dr, Charters on .prob
lems of collogo education for young 
women who are to llnd their vocation 
as homo makers. This Is a subject on 
which Dr. Charters Is supervising 
curriculum Investigations for Ste
phens College.
From Mr. M. R. Walton, chairman 
of the Alumni Federation Gymnasium 
Committee, it was learned that the . 
Board of Trustees Gymnasium Com
mittee met a week ago last Monday, 
to receive a-report from the Alumni 
Federation Committee on the gymna
sium. It was decided to accept tlie 
location for the now gymnasium, re
commended by them, which is tho 
plot of ground adjacent to the Col
lege of Fino Arts, opposite the Mar
garet Morrison College.
Also the recommendations of tho 
Alumni Federation Activities Com
mittee wero approved as a working 
basis. These are that the building 
should bo planned for physical 
courses, athletic activities and stu
dent health.
Mr. Hornbostel was instructed to 
proceed with tho plans and present 
sketches to the committee at a meet
ing /today.
The location was selected because 
It is central, and the ground is good 
for building; also with tho nssurance 
of Mr. Hornbostel that thero would 
bo no Interference with future ex
tension oftho Arts building, because 
tho design will bo studied so as to 
make It, possible to remodel It for tli 
use of tho Arts school.
Tho other' sites woro lollmlnatt 
for various reasons, such as any lo 
cation near tho cut would curtail any 
future extensive building program, 
bocauso that is tho logical direction 
for the Institution to expand, Tlio 
D'orbos and Woodlawn sltb w<\uld pos
sibly conflict with any stadium plan. 
The library hut meant a. largo oxponso 
for foundations.
The tentative.plans of the building 
call for a gym in throe units. The 
(Continue.! on ljago Throe.)
NIGHT ELECTRICALS
A. smplcoi; and entertainment was 
enjoyed by the students lu the night 
clauses ol! Electric faqulpiuont In
the Union. This was the first or
Its kind this yoar for the night 
classes anti' it Is lo bo a semi-annual 
ovont.
Mr. Kirkpatrick of tho Varsity 
(Han furnished the oats for about 
80. Speeches' were made by Director 
/Morris, Dr. I brig, Dlrcotor of Night
jSiollool A, W. Tarboll, Dean of.
Mon, Mr. Hnuron,, Graduate Managor 
of Athletics, and Prof. Ciildorwood 
of tho lOloctrloul Department. They 
wore all very Interest lug spoochos 
and gave tho night students several 
Ideas.
Several events wore arrahgod by  
I ho students. Among these wero 
boxing liputs, vaudeville stunts, muul.o an'd moving pictures.
The succoss of tho ui'falr was duo 
to tho hard work of tho committee,
I In' members of which wero .T. A. 
Irwin, F. S. MoCauloy, C. P. Habor,
T. Garafola, S Jenkins,
ESSAY CONTEST
SceneA couple car-riding.
He: My clutch Is awfully weak. 
She: So Ive noticed."Lord Jeff.
Tho national Council for the Limi
tation of Armaments, 522 Seventeenth 
stroet, N. W., Washington, D. C., of
fers prizes for the two best editorials 
on what will constitute success at 
tho Washington conference published 
in bona fide college newspapers prior 
to Decomber 15.
Conditions of the contest:
Subject: What Will Constitute
Success at the Washington Confer
ence?
Prizes: First prize, $100.00; sec
ond prize, $50.00.
Contestants: The contest is opon
to undergraduates.
Publication: The editorial must
have been published prior to Decem
ber 15 In a regular Issue of some bona 
fide college newspaper.
Competition Closes: December 21,
1921. Editorials received after that 
date will not be eligible.
Form of Presentation: Two com
plete copies of the paper containing 
the editorial must be submitted.
Judges: The National Student Com
mittee will aippoint the judges and 
award the prizes.
Send editorials to Mr. Charles Denby, Jr., 131 Little Hall, Princeton, 
Now .Torsey.
PIERRE PATELIN FARCE 
COMEDY AT THEATER
Plerr.e Patelin, the first production 
under tlie dlroction.pf Theodore Vlojiman, will be presented in the Arts 
Theater tonlglut. The play Is tho old
est French farceIf Is of modlaoval 
times Its action being placed In the 
thirteenth 'century, and the author hi 
entirely unknown, In spite of this 
fact I ho play Is surprisingly modern 
and even futuristic In Its appeal. Tho 
comedy, which Is closer to the slap
stick than Is that usually seen on this 
stage Is so extremely well done that 
tho audience must Indeed bo dense 
not to be able to appreciate .'I just as 
much today1 as were those who saw 
the first production, before America 
was discovered.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANPAGEATGWOH GRNDSY,AC MH B71B
gfrg Parian
Published every week hy undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postolflco of Pittsburgh as secorii-class matter.
FREDERICK-L. KNOWLES ........................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Hazel 938
WILLIAM R. MILLS ........................................................... Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 92X1
VIC. II. STROMQUIST .......................................................... Managing Editor
TelephonesSchenley 91.80 or Hlland 858
HELEN V. LEWIS .................................................................... Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9079
L. J. WHITEHEAD .......................'....................................... Associate EditorTelephonoSchenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND.......................................................................NcwB EditorTelephoneSchenley 9070
II P SIMI-SON.................. ................................................... At,1,0tl0 Edltr TeloplionoSchenley 0070
n w miYTON ............................................................. PHotographor
S: I mcKMAN-;::::.......................................................................
II. 1). S0NNISMANN........................ A("iflDg Mttnu!!0rTelephoneSchenley 92J.1
m rs BO ELLY ................................................................... Circulation Managor
|  EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Gladys Bogue, M. Scliuniachor, H. I*1. Dlater, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
p O lviacKen'/-lo, H. H. LefhowitH. H. Wilson, K. L. McKee, W. J. Bolton, 
; SeSmu" F. T. PlK.li. 0. J. MuuHt, It. P Huy, ... A n.mgher y, M S. 
Downes, W. (J. Sullivan. II. W. Browall, E. W. Duggan, P. C. Smith, II. .1.
McCormick, L. Byorly, L. M. Elliott.______________:-----------------------------------------------
* BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J, M. Cooper_____________________E. Sowers  W. B. Cunningham
Tho Editor-In-Chief I responsible for tho policy of this papor; tho
Managing Editor for the make up.___________________________. _________________
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed, 
signature will Ix; withhold If desired. AH news Items must bo In the Btudont
post olllco before 4:30 Friday.______________________________________________________
Tartan. OMiceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Olllee hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 12:.'0; Wednesday, 12 to 1 '________________
ILLOGICAL CONCLUSIONS
OJ! tlie great many biases that so often cause a man, unconscious
ly to arrive at an illogical conclusion, perhaps the one that is most 
prevalent among students is that ol: analogy. , ?
When there is a question, someone immediately advances the ar
gument that this college did this and it is the practice oJ: some other 
college to do something else. This was very pronounced last year. 
Numerous communications wero received at this school seeking in
formation about our practices, how various activities were run and 
how wc decided certain issues. We in turn sought similar inormation from other institutions. Such information is every valuable. It 
gives a man not only a broader viewpoint, but furnishes any amount 
of details. But such data should be used as information and not as 
an argument for or against apy question.
The argument of analogy falls, down when tho conditions a,re not 
the same. And conditions at any two schools arc not the same. 
Some of them may be very similar, but sometimes a very small item 
will cause a reversal of opinion. The student body of a technical 
school is markedly different from the student bodies of other col
leges. While, primarily, we arc a technical school our student body is 
n. many ways different from the student body of a purely technical 
ollegc. '
, Contrasting student bodies is very difficult. There arc differ
ences, but exactly what they arc we do not know. Since this is so, 
the argument of analogy is harmful rather than helpful. The issue 
should bo decided upon its own merits and under the conditions that 
exist. A conclusion reached in this mannr luis more chances ol! 
being logical than one upon which the bias of analogy has had a 
chance to operate. We want to do right, and reason in a logical 
manner, so let us bo careful of our thoughts and do not let the bias 
of analogy solve our problems. v
BILL SAYS
The column headed Bill Says," which has appeared several 
times this yoar, was established as a column for student communieaimns"' Ou{;snio iff class Uletings and tho few assemblies that are held, 
the opportunities for expressing ones opinions are very limited. With 
this in wind, the Tartan instituted a  Hill Says" column, hoping to 
furnish a way whereby students might freely oxpress their opinions.
Somo havo tlvo impression, that what Bill says is .tho4 work of a 
mombor of the Tartan stall!. This is not so; "Bill Says" column is 
exclusively for student communication. We want it to bo a 
placo wheiO students may freely exchange opinions; an open forum 
for the student body.
Tho Tartan invites communications from students and will pub
lish as many as space permits, We will not accept tho responsibility 
for views ami opinions expressed in this column and no cognizanco 
will bo taken of unsigned articles. However, if requested, tho writ
er's name will be withhold.
Union, 8:15
CALENDAR OP STUDENT EVENTS
WlODNIOSDAY, DIGCEMBim 7
Cion oral Student Assembly.........................................Musi/1, Hall, 11:30
THURSDAY, I) WHOM I MR 8
Scionco-lndustrios Alumni Smoker .........................
VIM DAY, DJWEMBMlt 5)
Hay, Pierre Patelin" (No tickets)..............;........Arts Theater, 4:00
M. M. O. (!. Guild...................................................................Union, 8:00
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10
Buckeye Dance ..............................................................  Union, 8:30
MONDAY, DECEMBER 12
Chapel.................................................................... Arts Theater, 12:45
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15 AND 16
Play, The Devils Desciple"....................................Arts Theater, 8:15
(Tickets for Students ready Monday, December 12th)
Bill Says
Soon the departmental papers such 
as The Gear Groan, The Short Circuit, 
The Hot Blast and others will be ap
pearing on tlie campus. To the new, 
men at Tech who do not know them 
it is sufficient to say that they are pa
pers issued by the Junior class of the 
different departments of Science 
School. To those also who have 
never had the privilege of reading 
one of them it is sufficient to say that 
the baser side of the Science mans 
mind is exemplified in them.
These papers, magazines or what
ever they may be truly called certain
ly make' spicy reading and thero is 
sonio real good ' wit and humor in 
thom, too. And if tho distribution 
woro conflnod to the campus It. would 
bo dlfforont but there aro somo In
dividuals horo who olthor without 
thought or through indlfforonoo send 
copies of them to tholr friends in 
othor collogos and to friends back 
homo. What would bo ones Impres
sion of Tech formed by muling last 
years Goar Groan and tho Short Cir
cuit, that; is, ono who is away from 
Pittsburgh and does not como Into 
contact with tho finer sldo of Tech 
students? Did you ovor stop to think 
about it? Do wo want our Alma Ma
ter known all over tho'country by 
these papers such as they were last 
year? Somo may say that we do not 
care what others think of us, but that 
is not true. We do care and aro will
ing to go to almost any end to im
prove the standing of our college 
among the other colleges of tho coun
try.
Would it not be well then for the 
men in charge of these papers this
year to consider from a standpoint 
.of our love for the good name of Car
negie Tech, our Alma Mater, what 
goes to make up these papers and to 
issue ones that will be a credit rather, 
than a disgrace to Tech?
NOTICES
Wednesday, December 7
Profi C. J. Simpson will lead 
discussion group on the subject, An
cient Manuscripts: The History of 
the Canons, at the Y. M. C. A. Club 
Room at 12:30.
Y. M. C. A. swimming party at the 
Schenley High School nt 7:30 p. m.
Friday, December 9.
Plebe discussion group will meet in 
Y. M. C. A. Club room at 7:30. AI 
Mays will load tlio dlsouRslon on 
Student Standards of Action.
Tuesday,. December 13.
Froshnuui-Sonlor Dinner at; tho 
Tech Boanory at 0:00.
Open mooting of Mid-Western As
sociation. Spoolal talks for all atudonts going homo ovor tho holidays. 
Mooting in iSonior Club Room, 7:30.
Wednesday, December 14.
Tho Radio Club will moot in tlio 
Machinery Hall, lower at S p. m.
COMMENTS
COUNT THE LOSS
We are living in an age when spe
cialization counts tor .everything. 
Wo must either specialise in some 
one thing or get out of tho race.
In our enthusiasm to learn one 
thing well, wo are likely to lose our 
versatility, our broad outlook on 
llfo, our love for the more beautiful 
and artistic things. Wo nVay know 
one subject perfectly and bo uncom
fortable when conversation drifts to 
anther field.
A chemist will try to bo pre-emlmont in his profession. In his col
logo days ho takes as few hours as 
possl'ole In literature, language; his
tory, and tho fine arts. Ho devel
ops only his chemistry abilities, and 
neglects the most vital part of his 
education, tho courses which wi'.l 
broaden his Ideas and give him a 
background of knowledge upon which 
he can roly In his social intercourse 
with men.
Tho chemist goes on in life, think
ing, reading, writing, talking chemis
try. Ho has probably never devel
oped his Imagination ' or a sense of 
the beautiful. Often he has no taste 
for history or good fiction. Current 
events and political problems are 
apt to boro him.
Over-speclallzation will throttle all 
of us if we dont get busy and jog 
ourselves out of the rut. How aboui 
the engineer taking a course In 
lorace, the chemist electing dra
matic production, andi the classical 
major studying physiology?
An education should not limit a 
person to :>r.e field. It should help 
him to know something about every
thing.McGill Daily.
ARTS THEATER
ROAMINS
Even if your pocket book Is not 
well filled, you can get artistic, gen
teel Christmas Cards to mail to 
friends. Prices as low as 5c each at 
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP, Jenkins 
Arcade.Adv.
SYNGES PLAYBOY
ON ARTS STAGE
The Playboy of the Westom 
World, by J. M. Synge, Is a play as 
baffling as it is beautiful. Here a 
sophisticated cosmopolitan lias writ
ten a folk-drama. shot through with 
that spirit, most alien of all to peas
antry, the spirit of irony. Where 
Synge got his irony need not concern 
us here; it is enough to say that ho 
did not get it on what is tho Irish 
equivalent of ills native heath. The 
affront to tlio national character, 
which many goodly have found In 
this play, arises from this treatment 
of native Hie from a foreign point of 
vantage. Because they aro at onco 
natives and aliens, Shaw and Moore 
and Synge are detested by the normal 
Irishman just as Main Street and 
 Three Soldiers are detested by the 
normal sentimental American.
Sufficiently long ago Matthew Ar
nold conscientiously went'about char
acterizing tho Celtic* nature as undiscipllnn.blo, uriiirchilcal and turbu
lent abovo all, aB sentimental, al
ways ready to re-act against the des
potism of facts," No people would 
take this account of Itself eagerly to 
Its bosom. So, when Synge painted 
his kinsfolk as prlmltlvo npd cruel 
wlllml capable of building beauty out 
o{ vilo material, tho simple nature 
could not forgive him.
Yot beyond tho folk-spooch of this 
play colorful and Imaginative as It Is 
nowhere olso In our English drama, 
boyond the tender and doop char
acterization, tlio vriluo of this play 
Is the continual movement of irony, 
tho appreciation of tho shoddy In tho 
mIDc. of the dlvorgonco between in
tention and accomplishment, hotwoon 
desire and actuality, tho discrepancy 
between romance and ron'llty,
Tho current production In tho hands 
of ProfoHnor Osborno is painstaking 
and thoughtful, if not; exactly inspir
ing. .Tho business has boon worked 
out to tliio last dogroo and tho cast 
ha,B evidently boon intensively, per
haps, ovor-trainod. To this Inexpert 
critic thero wore no flaws In tho dia
lect, though tho suspicion that the 
result was hardly worth the effort 
is sustained by the fact that the least 
dialectal of tho^ characters was tho 
most convincing.
If there was a serious lack, it was 
in tlio absence of the glow of ro
mance, tlio expression of the spirit 
of poetry flowering out of this crud
ity. The whole play is a study in 
glamour, and that note too frequently 
was not sounded. The setting was 
carefully cheated in the manner of 
Mr. Belascos Dark Rosaleen, and 
tho lighting was as theatrical and un
real as the best of that masters.
The performance of the leading 
roles by Miss Floyd and Mr. McClure 
'is entirely adequate if not perfectly 
satisfying. Though Miss Floyd is 
sometimes too coquettish and like
wise careless of the poetic note, she 
speaks with enviable clarity, looks 
very well and catches tlie vigor, inde
pendence and sharpness of the char
acter.
Mr. McClures work is hampered by 
the fact that a tliird of his lines are 
unintelligible. The role is more intri
cate than he imagines, but especially 
in the first act and the. poignant 
close of tho piece he is effective.
The surprise of tho production is 
Mr. Szold as the crusty father; his 
acting has power, freshness and ac
tuality. Miss Zoile gives a capable, 
resourceful. Interpretation of the 
Widow Quin, and .Charles McCarthy 
a somewhat; Molf-conscious, but aud
ible and admirable version of tho 
cowardly lover
Smaller parts are dono carefully If 
sometimes extravagantly by Messrs. 
Caldwell, Sohaughoney and Malloy. 
The peasant girls make ngrocabio 
parts of the stago picture.
TEA ROOM
The Margaret Morrison Tea Room, 
under the management of Miss Beu
lah Smith and the Tea Iioom class la 
blossoming into one of the most de
lightful accessories of College Life. 
To havo ones teaor any of the food 
servedis quite a .boost in the daily 
grind along about 4 oclock. Unfor
tunately the tea room is open only 
on Tuesdays and Fridays, S:30 to 5.*
At last. What? Tho new gym 
site. No! You don't mean it. Yep. 
Honest to goodness Theyve done 
and did It After six long months, 
can It be possible? Last year when 
the kar load of kale arrived. 
Some 1,600 people of Tech picked 
Homo 1,599 spots for the bulldln! 
But It remained for the other one 
to chooBe the honored place. Yesslr. 
Right In hack of Greenwich Village.
Shame too. No more noon sies
tas. 'Member how you used to 
meet. Your one and only Maggie 
there. And you said what you said 
last night you meant and she said 
you didn't, 'ihon you battled 'till 
the 1:30 bell then both ran like 
Shame. No more will the inmates 
of dramat. Tell the world. The sun 
and the moon and the skies. Their 
troubles in blank verse. Nor throw 
out their arms. Till some fair 
maiden falls In them. No longer 
will Shakespeare's noble retainers 
fight in the cause of Romeo and 
Juliet. Alas! It must all go the 
way marked^ b,y tho Eighteenth 
Amendment.
But there my good ono. Lies the 
reason for tho choice. Here the 
scone of the mighty battles of yes
terday. The spot for the future 
and mightier battles of Techs war
riors. Here the confident fives of 
our opponents shall be. Vanquished. 
Even as the hordes of the German 
Army. Here the gladiator of the 
twentieth Century will don their 
helmets and cleated shoes and silver 
Armour. Before stepping to the 
field to slay the invaders.
But in the process. Wo wonder 
what is going to happen. To the 
music students. When the steam 
shovels start. Tlie rivet hammers. 
Tlie batch mixers. The hod carriers. 
The brick layers. The carpenters. 
Welcomed for a time to our halls 
of learning. The ones; to make our 
dream of years come true. What 
a daily sight to feast on.
But stop. Were, a little previous. 
Whose goin to. turn over. The first 
shovel full of earth? Theres an'Other holiday well have to have. 
And after the ceremony theres only 
one thing loft. BURN THE OLD 
ONE.
WashingtonConference
By Colonel Frederick Palmer
(Colonel Frederick Palmer, the 
Dean of American War Correspond
ents, has been through every war of 
Importance from the Ureco-Turklsn 
War of 1897 down to date. 1914-16 
he was the accredited American Cor
respondent with the British Army; 
1917-18 Lieutenant Colonel A. E. F. 
Author, "America in France," The 
Last Shot," The Folly of Nations" 
(1921), etc.)
Washington, Nov. 25.  The third 
plenary session has been held this 
week, and the committees are at 
grips with tholr work. At a plenary 
sosBlon all thie delegates make a pub
lic appearance. Then you may see 
the chiefs up stage and back of 
them their numerous subordinates, 
and back of those tho representatives 
of the world's press and all other per
sons who have sufficient Influence to 
soouro tickets of admission. Then 
you may listen to,the dlonr tones of 
Mr. Hughes, as chairman, to the well 
turned phrnsos of Mr. Balfour, or 
tho gusty enunciation in Japanese of 
Baron ICato, whllo you watcln tho Im
mobile face of Mr, Root or Senator 
Lodge as ho thoughtfully presses his 
fingers togethor, or Gonoral Persh
ing. sitting so firm and erect.
At tho fti'Bt plenary session Mr. 
Hughos said to tho world: America Is 
ready to cut down her navy, here Is 
hor program. Hitherto, when nations 
ticked about limitation of armament 
the question was Who will begin 
first? and no nation held up its 
hand as a volunteer. Mr. Hughes 
proposed that tho three great sea 
powers start naval reduction at tho 
same time. What would the other 
two sea-powers sky to this? At the 
second session they accepted in prin
ciple. Then committees were appoint
ed to work out tlie details.
The third plenary session was held 
in order that Premier Briand of 
France might state the situation of 
France. One may be hield if Premier 
Lloyd, George comes to America, to 
allow him to be as eloquent about hls 
country as M. Briand was about his. 
This, would be only fair play and an 
equivalent theatrical courtesy.
We shall have a plenary session, 
too, when the committees have work
ed out details far enough to make a 
public announcement of progress. For 
all that is, said at the plenary ses
sion is given to the world. The com
mittees do the real work and this be
hind closed doors, when, perhaps, it 
wouldN be better if the doors were 
kept open. But the world is leav
ing this to the choice of the commit
tees for the time being, as they think 
that they can accomplish more in 
secret sessions. Their task is enor
mous. They are attempting a feat 
which is without precedent in tlie 
war-worn history of the human race. 
Each nation, thinking in the terms 
of Its own security, must study every 
angle of the proposals. The details 
of naval reduction aro as complicated 
as tho mechanism of a modem bat
tleship; tho details of the Far East
ern problem are as complicated as all 
tho ills that; old China is hell* to relutod to all the national interosts thathave sought aggrandizement at her 
expense.
Meanwhile, as the committees la
bor, we shall hear rumors and conjec
tures founded on guesswork as to 
what is going on in the secret ses
sions. All men and women should 
unite to discourage ill feelnig be
tween nations which will lead to dis
sension at tho council boards.
l^ailuro of the, conference means 
that the world will return to tooth 
and claw and hare to bear a heavier 
burden of taxat,|<n than ever before. 
Success will mejfi that we have taken
M. M. C. NEWS
M. M. SENIOR BALL
After the Ball was overque voulez 
vous encore? Only Its memory.
The Union decorated extensively 
with palms and ferns and good look
ing people held to its bargain to ful
fill all expectations of its beauty ana 
appropriateness. The Faculty 'Par
lors were used as a lounging room.
The patronesses of the bail were: 
Mrs. Arthur A.. Hamerschlag, Miss 
Mary B. Breed, Mrs. Samuel Harding 
Church, Miss Jane Fales, Miss A. 
Christine McBride, Miss Malcoln Mc
Leod, Mrs. Ernest V. Page, Miss Hel
ene M. Pope, Mrs. Laura W. L. Scales 
and Mrs. Charles Watkins.
The grand march began at 9:30, led 
by Miss Laura Bugher and Donald 
A. Sillers, followed by Lillian Cowan 
ind Wilfred I-Iimes.' Miss Cowan, as 
president of the Junior Class, was 
present as a guest of the Senior 
Class.
At twelve o'clock lunch wa3 served.
The Keystone Seven, playing be
hind a palmy row, /became more and 
more popular as tho evening hurried 
on. Everyone voted it very good. A 
Paul Jones re-llvened the dancers 
about one oclock and, before anyone 
was ready for it the Home Waltz an 
nounced time to go home.
HOUSEHOLD CHRISTMAS PARTY
Tuesday night the Household Eco
nomics Club had a Christmas party 
of tho real Christmassy kind. There 
was a real Christmas tree and an ap
propriate present for each little girl. 
Every one was more or less pleased 
with her present.
Miss Marian Layton, president of 
the club, was responsible to a great 
extent, for the success of the party.
GUILD CHRISTMAS CARNIVAL
Did you have a good time at the 
Mardi Gras? You will have a better 
time at the Carnival. A sort of winter 
Mardi Gras, with stunts and dancing 
and fortune-tellingwell it's going to 
be the real thing.
It has been the custom .for the 
Guild to give a Bazaar at Christmas 
time, but this' year were going to 
have something different. During the 
earlier part of the evening there will 
be stunts put on by the four classes 
and by the departmental dlubs in tlio 
Mens Faculty Parlors. The  various 
organizations around school are hav
ing booths, and in one corner sits a 
dark-eyed reader of the future. By 
the way, dont bring any all-day 
suckers or peppermint sticks with, 
you, because the Y. W. will furnish 
you with~all such necessities of lire, 
&lso home-made candy.
After the stunts are over the party 
will adjourn to the Union, "where, 
upon payment of ten cents a dance 
the company will trip the light fan
tastic to the strains of Eve Hughes 
Orchestra.
For tho benefit of. the unenlighten
ed we will explain that the" Margaret 
Morrison Guild is tho only charitable 
organization of its kind in the school 
and the Carnival is tho one event or 
the year, held under the auspices of 
the Guild.
a first definite step toward bringing 
permanent peace to tlio world. Every 
minute thajt one spends on informing 
himself on .this problem of peace 
and war,i every thought that Is 
brought to bear to help Mr. Hughes 
and the other delegates will be an aid 
to success.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
This is for the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and deliver it Our work is the 
best, our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss O'Leary, 3933 
Forbes street.
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY :
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............- - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits..................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
MAR iVS
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLE BROTHERS
"The Serv'-ce Drug Store. 
5805 FORBES STREET 
Near Murray Avenue 
Prescriptions Our Specialty. 
Hazel 3615.
Shadyside Barber Shop
JOS. E. KRUMM, Prop. 
5522 WALNUT STREET
puiiiiniiiiinnDinaiiiu'iiiiiiiQiiiJiiiiiniiuiiiuiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiuiiniminiinniiiiniiinniniiiinniiiiininniiiniiiiiiini
ANDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
| 3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
SiiimiiffliinnniimniiniiiiDiiiiiiiiDHniirjiiiininiiniKiiiaiiniiiir 'jninnHif
HUNGARIAN ROYAL PALACE
BUDAPEST. HUNGARY 
Most of the famous buildings of the world 
aie equipped with Otis ElevatorsE
VERY part of this beautiful Palacc was 
designed and bdilt by Hungarians 
except one. This was the elevator _ 
installation.
When they needed elevators in keeping with 
this structure of white Hungarian marble 
and^ sandstone, there was only one firm 
consideredthe international firm of Otis. : 
Two passenger elevators were supplied, and 
in those days they were used by the lunperor, members of the Royal Household, and 
guests. 
That was more than twenty - years ago. 
Otis was then the leader in the elevator 
industry, as Otis is now.
In palaces of kings, in the greatest and the 
tallest office buildings of the world, in resi
dences, ships, towers, theatreseverywhere 
where vertical transportation is required, you 
will find Otis Elevatorsthe safest and most 
efficient of all.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Office in all Principal Cilice of the World
Remember that Melachrino is a master 
blend of the finest Turkish Tobaccos 
as originated by Miltiades-Melachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
that originated in Egypt. But the to
bacco is what you, want to know about 
 and if its Melachrinoits right
Who can discriminate more 
carefully than the college 
man? To his natural equip
ment are added the resources 
culture and the associa
tion with great minds of all 
ages. Such discrimination 
leads naturally to the choice 
of Melachrino, the One Ciga
rette Sold the World Over.
cMelachrino
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1921____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________THE TARTAN______PAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
RIFLE CLUB 
TOURN. STARTS
Over 100 Men Are Competing 
For MedalsRichards 
Visits Range
l
The Rifle Club Tournaments which, 
were started Qast week are progres
sing very well. Over one hundred 
men are competing for the medals, 
which are to be awarded the winners. 
The tournaments are expected to de
velop quite a bit of new material for 
the team. The most promising men 
so far are Van Saun and Darnall, who 
shot scores of 96 and 94 prone.
Mr. W. C. Richards, whb is rec
ognized as one of the best shots in 
the world at the present time, visited 
the range last Saturday morning. He 
coached the men on some of the finer 
points of shooting and congratulated 
the club on the pange and other ar
rangements.
The tournaments will continue for 
two weeks more before the winners 
are matched.
M. M. GIRLS ATHLETICS
Girls athletics are booming at M. 
M. The new and old sports are start
ing off with so much enthusiasm that 
the Athletic Association fears it will 
go bankrupt buying sweaters for the 
athletes.
The. president read the revised 
point system. One hundred athletic 
points entitles a girl to her sweater 
and letter; seventy-five to an athletic 
award and fifty to an A. A. pin. The 
A. A. pins will be given out at the 
end of the Sophomore year. The 
sweaters and awards are to be pre
sented twice during the Senior year.
The various managers of sports 
gave short talks; Mary Curry on 
swimming, Gertrude Lyons on hockey, 
Dorothy Grant on tennis, Ruthanna 
Anderson on hikes and Jean Eakin on 
basket ball. The latter sport is in 
the limelight at present as this week 
class practices will start. From these 
teams the varsity will be chosen. An 
honor varsity is a new addition this 
year. Girls will be chosen from each 
dlass team to represent the Honor 
Varsity. Athletic points will-'be given 
for this, but* it will not play any 
games. The idea is merely an honor 
mention.
The University of Pittsburgh Phy
sical Educational Department is now 
at Tech and the Tech girls are hoping 
to meet their teams in some good 
rousing games.
Bowling has caused quite a good 
deal of excitement. If a hundred girls' 
will enter into this sport you will see 
a hot trail to' the K. of C. Bowling 
Alleys every Tuesday afternoon. 
Swimming, hockey, volley ball, base
ball, tennis, hikes, golf, basket baU 
and bowling are the scheduled sports. 
Miss Bowman and Miss Spurrier gav6 
snappy reviews of the various plans 
of class and varsity athletic work.
The girl athletes need no longer to 
hide their lights under a bushel. The 
great day has. come. The girls are 
off! Watch em!
? ?$. .J. .j. * .j ^ t, j. ^ ^ ,
> Meeting of all varsity letter  
!? menWednesday, December 7,  
I* Varsity Club Room in Gym.
DO YOU KNOW 
That the leading building of far 
away Ceylon are equipped with Otis 
'Elevators?
Among the important Installations 
there may be mentioned the Galle 
Face Hotel and the Oriental Hotel.
People everywhere appreciate the 
Otis standard of reliability, and wher
ever Otis Elevatprs are installed they 
are giving the same efficient, safe and 
economical service.
FORBES, Near Murray j 
Pittsburgh, Penna.
IDDING MEETS 
LARGE SQUAD
Good Nucleus to Build Team 
AroundGibson, Dosey. 
Bell, Allen Back
Deluxe,
Student Note Books
give you better value 
for your money.
they work better and 
wear longer.
all sizes and rulings. 
ask to see them.
W.V.V. liai'Mq JVWYVV
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Rropr. * 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
MURRAY RESTAURANT 
Squirrel Hills Exclusive Dining ~ 
Room.
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. JJ 
Scuirrel Hill ??
Hazel 9373. fc
\
Fifty basket ball candidates greet
ed Coach Iddings on his arrival last 
Thursday at the Gymnasium. These 
men reported a week before to Bob 
Waddell and had been practicing 
every afternoon under his supervision 
so that Coach Iddings found the men 
in fairly good condition. Since last 
Thursday the squad has spent the 
time in passing the ball and shooting 
baskets, but they have been handi
capped by the fact that one of the 
glass backboards is broken and for 
this reason they have been unable 
to play anjpractice games. Coach 
Iddings is pleased with the Ize of 
the squad and the manner in which 
they handle the ball and from all in
dications Tech will have a team whicn 
will be quite worthy of wearing the 
Plaid colors and which will undoubt
edly increase the respect that all col
leges have for our athletic prowess.
In addition to the nucleus from last 
years basket ball teams, Captain 
Gibson, Dosey, Bell, Allen and Pit
man, many of . this years football 
team have reported for practice, in 
eluding Mills, Godden, Alexander and 
Sawyer. The squad also includes 
many men who have played basket 
Ball before coming to Tech, and afll 
of them show promise of developing 
into good players, but inasmuch as 
the men have not been put through 
any strenuous practice it would be 
impossible to pick out any men as su
perior to any others. It is enough to 
say that there is good material in the 
squad and Coach Iddings is the man 
who can bring it out.
Tn contrast to last year's candidates 
we are fortunate in having a number 
of letter men in the squad and a 
strong team -nail be built around these 
men, but the playing of the new men 
shows that the regulars of last year 
will have to work mighty hard to hold 
down their positions on tliie team.
All of the men trying out for the 
team are being given every oppor
tunity to display their ability and we 
can be sure that the men who finally 
malte the team will be the best play
ers that we have in school. It is 
just about two weeks before the team 
engages in its first contest, but be
fore this time they will have plenty 
of practice and yvS7 can be sure that 
they will acquit themselves well on 
the trip during the Christmas holi
days.
GYM SITE SELECTED
(Continued from Page One., 
front facade will be three or four 
stories high providing offices, locker 
rooms, and probably a girls gym on 
the top floor.'
Behind this will be a largo gymna
sium proper, to have an area of 
about 20,000 square feet, providing 
four or five basket ball floors, hand 
ball courts, etc.
This unit may also be used for a 
ball room.
rhe swimming pool Is the third unit 
in' connection with the main build
ing. It will have glass roof that will 
give plenty of sunlight.
It is hoped to have the structure 
completed next fall and with good 
building conditions it may be pos
sible.
NEW RADIO SET FOR
COLLEGE NEWS
(Continued From Page One.) 
ed. You do not have to be a member 
of the Radio Club to use that table, 
but you should b there if you are a 
Radio man and interested in the 
work.
We invite and expect every Radio 
man at that table. Come, join us, and 
be merry!
NEW SCHOOL CONFERENCE
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
UNSUNG HEROES #
Does it ever occur to you, Mr. Average Fellow, that everywhere tliero 
are a bunch of fellows, who are doing things, and at the same time not re
ceiving credit by the general masses? Such a state of affairs is ever present 
in all walks of life. The World War had them. Every business has them. 
Every school and every college lias them. Carnegie Tech is no exception to 
this rule. Let us try and find out who these men are at TECH.
Perhaps among them are those fellows who go out for the manager jobs 
of various athletic teams. Again, there are the various members of the 
reserve teams.
Perhaps of these two, the assistant managers receive less recognition. 
And why? Simply because their work is not surrounded with the glamor and 
applause that attend the work of the varsity men. They go out every after
noon, working hard throughout the week, performing the so-called dirty 
work of the athletic branch, take the rebufTs and criticisms of the men who 
do' not know. They perform the work that many of the varsity men would 
not do. They do this for three years, dnd maybe at the end of their fourth 
year, if they have been faithful aud have performed their work well, receive 
the coveted Managerial C. Too much cannot be said in their favor.
Among these men, perhaps the Freshmen deserve the most praise. They 
worked faithfully throughout the season, receiving no reward whatever but 
the recognition by those fellows that understand. They were taken on none 
of the trips, unless they paid "for them out of their own pockets. Their only 
reward was the knowledge that if they stuck it out, perhaps recognition 
would some day be theirs.
These men who worked under such conditions during the past football 
season were: G. E. Slye, Ralph Horger, H. W. Damon, J, A. Aspinwall, J. 11. 
Reed, PI. P. Rassbach, J. D. Jarema and R. Barnhart. These men deserve 
recognition, and students should give it to them. They showed the proper 
TECH spirit.
The Sophomores who worked hard and also deserve credit were G. R.
Gossard, W. H. Ryan, H. F. Limberg, R. M. Stevenson, J. Stackhouse, G. C.
Saltzman, H. F. Britton and H. M. Fencil. These men indy be classed right
along side with the Freshmen^ for this was their first year out.
Credit is due to Manager 'Blesch and his First Assistants Farrell and 
Stromquist for their efficient handling of the other assistants, for it is en
tirely due to this, their work, that such good work was performed by the 
other assistants. Manager Blesch himself entirely lived up to the standard 
heretofore reached by former footbiCll managers.
And right along side these can be mentioned the manager and assistant 
managers of cross-country. Everything can be attributed to them that has 
been given the football workers. They are Manager John E. Nations and 
First Assistants Lucas and H. H. Wilson, with Hollingsworth, Coe, Coleman 
and Proctor as their assistants.
And right along this line, let us mention the reserve football team. 
Very little praise has been given these men, who came out daily, and drilled 
hard under Coach Parks. They deserve a great amount of praise for their 
game fight under the adverse conditions of lack of student support, and be
ing forced to play practically .their entire schedule away from the homo Held. 
These men are the backbone of the future varsity, and for that reason are 
deserving of much more recognition than the student body customarily givos 
them.
Amonc the men who deserve special mention are Berryman, captain and 
center; Gilbert, tackle; Bright and Hyde at ends; Jones and Gee in the baclcfield, and Lord at quarter. The remaining men also deserve mention for 
their playing throughout the season. They are: Maurer, Mason, Kalabisch, 
Nesbitt, Elliott, Williams, Wilhelm, Thompson, Kuhn, Schwab, Cullum and 
Miller. When a man sticks the season out, knowing full well that tliero Is 
little chance of winning his letter, and very seldom even so much as getting 
in the reserve games, credit is surely due him.
OUR BASKET BALL SCHEDULE
The basket ball schedule, as printed last week, affords the team a good 
opportunity to make a, good record. The -usual teams in this district are 
played both at home and there, while a number of teams of other districts 
are brought to the Tech floor. Among these are Kentucky State, Lafayette, 
Buffalo, Virginia Polytech and West Virginia Wesleyan. .These teams to
gether with Westminster, Grove City, Allegheny, Wash-.Teff, Geneva, W.ost 
Virginia and Bethany will make a most attractive program for the local 
followers of the floor game.
This schedule is much better than that of last year, in which the mis
take was made of playing too many games, thus impairing the playing olllciency of the team. This will not be the case this season, lor the total 
number of games played are ten less than last season. Again, last season, 
perhaps during Vevery week, three, and in some cases, four games were play
ed, which made it impossible for the team to play at its best at all tlmos, 
due to being tired. This year there Is no week, during the regular' season 
when more than three games are played, while most of the weeks only two 
games are played. This will give the team a chance to enter each gamo in 
good physical condition, and no doubt will react in their favor.
A REQUEST
Fellow students, this column wants ideas and thoughts expressed by the 
students themselves. The writer may have a few ideas of his own, but tlioy 
soon give out, and again they are not always the sentiment of the entlro stu
dent body. This column aims to give to the students what they thomselvos 
think, and right along side of this, give tlie Ideas of the athletic authorities 
on the same subject. By so doing, unity. It is hoped, will bo attained. So, 
if you have any thoughts, or ideas, or criticisms, or suggestions, write them 
out, and place In the Tartan Box (No. 173) In the post office, addressed to 
the Athletic Editor, and It Is assured you that II, will recelvo full attention. 
You may give your name, or withhold it, but it is preferred that your name 
be given.
ARTS PLEBE TRIAL
students to the necessity of. providing 
more fully than do present courses of 
instruction in American educational 
institutions for an ihtelligent under
standing of the problems of national 
and international life. To the end 
that present defects In these matters 
be corrected, it is urged that courses 
of instruction be provided which shall 
acquaint students in schools and col
leges with the fundamental necessity 
of social co-operation and the disas
trous consequences, of the lack of in
ternational harmony and war.
INTER-FRATERNITY
BASKET BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
fort will be made in good faith and 
in high honor to achieve the purposes 
for which the conference was called, 
namely: *
The limitation of armaments;
* The reduction of armies to the low
est practicable limits;
And that the underlying causes of 
war, such as the disputes or differ
ences of apparent interest in the Pa
cific be composed in the spirit of har
mony and good will.
Resolved, That in the opinion of the 
convocation th public should be 
made acquainted with the stages of 
the progress of the conference as far 
as consistent with the deliberations 
of the conference, and that the final 
conclusions and the reasons for reach-1 
ing them be fully published to the. 
world.
Resolved, That the convocation ex
presses the hope that the conference ' 
may be a first step leading to interna; 
tional co-operation for the preserva
tion of peace.
Resolved, That copies of these res
olutions be sent to the President of 
the United States, the secretary of 
state and to all colleges and univer
sities.
General Nathan William MacChesney, University of Michigan; Charles 
S. Deneen, McKendree College; An
drew C. McLaughlin, University of 
Chicago; Charles H. Judd, Wesleyan 
University; -Edward A. Miller, Oberlin 
College.
And in addition, be it further
Resolved, That this convocation 
aroused by the consideration of the 
great problems now under discussion 
at Washington calls the attention of 
college and university officers and
An important business ^meeting and dormitory basket ball * 
1 managers will be held in Science  
 Club Room at 4:30, (Friday, December 9.
THE BATTLE OF DORM HILL
1 Fort Boss Hall yithstood the 
combined attacks of the enemy eminating from the remaining six forts 
gathered upon the Dormitory Hill 
in Schenley Park. The battle started 
when a handful of the enemy pro
ceeded to drop snowballs in the open 
port-holes of Fort Boss Hall, much 
to the consternation of its brave de
fenders. But this consternation did 
not last long, for very soon, with the 
aid of a friendly ammunition hoist in 
the form of a sweet little girl, pro
ceeded to give the vastly outnumber
ing hordes of the enemy the battle 
of their lives. The white missiles of 
death (?) came thick and fast, caus
ing many a black head to withdraw 
within the portholes whitened. Many 
of these selfsame missiles lodged 
themselves between the eyes of vari
ous and sundry combatants. After a 
few windows had become smashed by 
the accurate firing of the two armies 
the brave defenders of Fort Boss Hall 
ventured out on a sally, but were met 
by overwhelming numbers, and im
mediately proceeded to return to the 
stronghold and its protection. The 
fight was then transferred from the 
various portholes to the balustrade 
on the end, where during times of 
peace the defenders spread out their 
bunks for a sleepful repose. Here 
the fight waxed strongly, missiles 
flying right and left, lodging them
selves firmly under thQ^illows and 
blankets of the variou s, and at
Mr. Cn 
he v\
times striking the bravo dofendors 
amidships. But after a while, when an 
ingenious npprentlco had dlscovorod 
a safe method of supplying ammuni
tion to the fighting force the many 
and repeated assaults of tho enemy 
Were nipped in tho bud. So that as 
night fell, Fort Boss Hall retired to 
its bunks of ice and snow fu'lly cog
nizant of a woll earned victory over 
the remaining forts of Dormitory 
Hill. All hail the victors, tho bravo 
defenders of Fort Boss Hall.
Too much praise cannot be given to 
the wonderful and brave fighting 
force of Fort Boss Hall, who with
stood so bravely the combined as
saults of everybody else on Dormitory 
Hill. And to the men (?) of the as
saulting party, nothing but discredit 
much be given, their firing was faul
ty, in that their markmanship was 
far inferior to the accurate marlananship of the bravest of aJll men, the 
defenders of Fort Boss Hall. It Is 
hereby advised by the brave scribe 
who risked a black-eye by his unfearing effort in the front ranks as a 
reporter, that the members of the 
fort other than Fort Boss Hall take 
lessons from the Fort Boss Hall Men 
in fighting.
TECH MECHANICS CLUB MEETING
President Herreran called a meet
ing of the club following Industries 
Assembly last Wednesday, to discuss 
plans for' forming a local organiza
tion to be affiliated with the S. I. E. 
Prof. Leeds announced that tentative 
plans for such an organization were 
under way, and seemed to have very 
favorable chances of success. More 
information will be available after 
further development of the plans 
under consideration.
It was decided that a smoker for 
members of the club would be held 
In the near future,1 and that a speaker 
on manufacturing subjects be obtained. It Is planned to have similar 
meetings and talks throughout tho 
your. The purpose of tho club Is to 
provide for the getting together or 
power plant and machine production 
students and others Interested In 
manfactuiing and commerce.
King Solomon could not havo 
been moro just than was tho jury 
which handed down tho sentences 
for the offending Plobcs at. tho 
Thursday trial at Arts. A trial had 
not been held for a few weeks and 
the list of culprits had grown to 
such an extent that It was neces
sary . to remove a few. Twelve, or 
about one-third of tho victims, 
learned that Plebo regulations are 
made for a purpose and they will 
learn more about them in tho fu
ture for the Sophshave started to 
go. It is hoped that hair cuttiug 
will not have to be resorted to in 
some cases but;------?
Some very constructive work was 
accomplished as a result of the trial. 
An accurate, detailed drawing of 
the foiyer, main hall exhibition 
rooih, etc.. for the use of the ball 
committee in planning decorations. 
A tracing of the. cathedral tloor 
plan in the main corridor was made 
by another while one youngster who 
"speaks sweetly to tho ladies, car
ries a sign to that effect while 
dressed in the costume of one of 
the fa^r onesfor a week. Another 
wrote this seasons football record
FRATERNITIES
XI SIGMA UPSILON
Initiation of the following men took 
place on November IS: Clarence
Over and, William Pfouts, Cavi Lando* 
fold, Design, and Charlos Crane, De
sign.
On last Wednesday evening tho al
umni members and the Pittsburgh 
chapter of tho Phi Gamma Delta wore 
guests at a dance given by tho frater
nity.
SIGMA EPSILON PHI
Sigma Epsilon Phi announces tho 
formal initiation of Douglas V. Mur
dock, Science, '2-1, Virgil E Evans, 
Science, 23, and Leo. J. Woilor, 
Science, 23.
Captain Edw. Steidlo of the Mining 
Department, and faculty advisor of 
the fraternity, was a guest at tho 
intitlatlon dinner held at the chapter 
house on December 3.
on -a blackboard 500 times for not 
knowing who won tho Bethany 
game.
MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Lunch40c 
A Students Restaurant 
For the Students Reasonable Pi-ices.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th o s for the next 
party? Let tho outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
BIG SPECIAL10 DAYSCLFAN-UP
Broken Sizes
Men's 
High 
Shoes
Mens 
Regular $12 Values
Cordovan, Tan 
Calf and Vicl 
Kid, English and 
Broad Toe 
Laces. Theres 
one Stetson In 
this lot. Sizes, 
AA-A-B 5 to 11
Mens 
High 
Shoos
Mens ' 
Regular $10 Values
BU YT8.? T.rstfi or
$ S.oE ukE n M.oj
1 Widths. AA-A-B 1
P. Ludebuehl
Penn and Frankstown& Son
East Liberty
AUFHAiMER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
PROMOTE
COMMUNITY 
PROGRESS 
Patronize
THE ORPHIH THEATER
Forbes and Murray
A New Show every day,
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School.......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service.........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Bvcsnlng Service....... 8:00P.M.
All Tech students will recelvo 
a cordial welcome hero.
SKIBO INN |
Remodeled and 
Enlarged
CLEAN, |
CHRODSRAD
FOOD |
Served at best prices :j: 
CIGARS CANDY
 The best place for amusementfflhe best place for, uxorciscIs At
Tho beat pTiuio to moot-hiT  
The best placo for a party
DUQUESNE GARDEN
The worlds finest ice skating rink.
H Eor party reservations caji Paul Qua]trough, Public sessions 2:30 |
Manager, Schenley 3106 and 8:80 daily. ==
....................................hi......linn...
THOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to you  Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
None has the delicious
FLAVOR of thefinestTurkish 
None gives the ENJOY
MENT of the finest Turkish 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish 
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD.
To enjoy 100% pure Turkish 
at its VERY BESTto reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
- you have but to smoke 
I MURAD
Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself/ 
ATTENTION OF ALL PLEBE8
AND SENIOR COUNSELORS
The monthly dinneroC the Plebes 
with their respective Senior counsel
ors will be held on Tuesday, Decem
ber 13, at 6:00, in tt/e Campus cafe
teria.
.be
\'urthen|
000100000200010201020002024848234800U"    "!!"UU!"!  "UUP!!  "7!"" 

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1921
ALUMNI PAGE
Clans Arrange Christmas Parties For Home Coming Students
CLAN NEWS
HARRISBURG CLAN
Thu regular nionUiIy business moot
ing of tho HttrrlBliurg Clan wan cnllorl 
to order liy President Xlushong Novombor 22, 1021, nt lilii residence, 1713 
noil Htroot. TIio following monibonl 
wore proHont:
fe01O)B? M. E. Groon, C. D. Hasness, 
.T. M. Todd, C. L. BackeimtonH, Dean 
Connolly, Ritchie Lawrlo, Jr., fdBB 
aortrudo Brocckor.
The secretary road a number of 
communications. Clan member! were 
especially interested' In receiving the 
report of the fall meeting of the New 
York Clan. Comment was made to 
tho effect that tills was the first Clan 
report received this year .
Much Interest was also ovldenced 
in Mr. Jordy's coming visit in the 
interest of the Musical Clubs Itin
erary.
A communication was read from 
the Philadelphia Clan Inviting tho 
I-Iarrlshurg Clan members to attend 
a "Get-Together meeting, Saturday, 
December 10.
NGPIT
It was voted that the dues for the 
Harrisburg Clan would be one dollar 
per year) for all facility and adminis
tration members and three dollars per 
year for all former students and grad
uates, with the understanding that 
the treasurer would automatically for
ward to tho secretary of the Alumni 
Federation two dollars to cover dues 
for each member of the Harrisburg 
Clan.
Philadelphia Mooting.
A. committee consisting of Missi
BrOHCher, Messrs, Shaub and Todd 
was appointed by-the president to 
give publicity and make arrange
ments for tho members desiring to attend tho "Get-Together*^ mooting, Sat
urday, December 10, to bo held by 
the Philadelphia Clan.
Christman Party.
The entertainment commlttoe re
ported that the Christman party would 
be held at tho Colonial Country Club 
on tho evening of December 20. Fi
nal arrangements for this affair are 
progressing rapidly. The party is be
ing held In honor of the students of 
tho Harrisburg district now in school, 
who will be homo at that time for the 
holidays. All former students, grad
uates, administration, faculty mem
bers and friends of Carnegie-Tech in 
the Harrisburg district will bo Invited 
to attend. The secretary was in
structed to send special invitations for 
this party to the members of the 
Philadelphia Clan.
Publicity Committee.
Mr. Backenstoss reported that the 
publicity committee had requested 
Mr. I-Iaaren to furnish them witli a 
newspaper cut of "Cy Comfort, in 
connection with a story which they 
desire to run in the local nowspapers. 
It is hoped that the cut will be re
ceived In the very near future. Mr. 
Todd reported that a letter of Inquiry 
had been directed to Mr. Tilbrook re
questing information about the possi
bility of securing the moving picture 
film showing activity at the school. 
Arrangements are pending for show
ing this film at tho Harrisburg Tech
nical High School, Harrisburg Acadomy and the Lancaster High School, 
with the possibility of using it at tho
other high schools in tho vicinity.
Football Schedule.
The secretary was instructed to 
place before the graduate manager a 
resolution expressing tho hope of tho 
members of tho Clan that it would be 
possible for the football schedule for 
the coming year to include some A 
class football to be played In the cen
tral or eastern part of the state. Con
siderable mention was made in con
nection with the contests between 
Lehigh and Tech to be staged in Har
risburg, and U. of P. and Tech to be 
played at Franklin Field.
Musical Clubs.
Tho socrotary urged a good attend
ance at tho luncheon meeting of tills 
Friday noon to hoar the proposition 
to bo submitted by Mr. Jordy in the 
interest of bringing the combined Mu
sical Clubs to 1-Iarrlsburg for a con
ference. It Is hoped that satisfactory 
arrangements will be made, whereby 
It may be possible to bring the clubs 
to 1-Iarrlsburg and also to York and 
Lancaster.
Next Meeting.
After the announcement by the 
president that the next regular 
monthly business meeting will be 
held Tuesday night, December 6, the 
meeting was adjourned at 9:45 p. m.
RITCHIE LAWRIE, JR., 
Secretary.
YOUNGSTOWN M. M. CLAN
Saturday, November 19, a commit
tee of Youngstown Margaret Morrison 
girls entertained twenty girls of the 
Clan at a delightful afternoon card 
party in tho home of Miss Clare Todd 
of lledonda road. The committee in
cluded Mrs. John Eaton, Miss Corinne 
Adams, Miss Esther King, Miss Edlce. 
Relder and Miss Todd. Large, bou
quets formed an attractive decorative 
scheme. Late in the afternoon a
Everything forUALITynothing for show
HATS OUR IDEA in making CAMELSQuality Cigarette.
theT
Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! Its 
the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes 
fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper out
sidesecure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp 
over the end to seal the package and keep it air-tight.
And note this! Theres nothing flashy about the Camel 
package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the 
smoke. Not a cent of needless expense that must come 
out of the quality of the tobacco.
Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on merit 
alone.
Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and 
fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men 
smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness 
and their freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
Camels are made for men who think for themselves.
Camel
dainty lunch was served.
Those attending the Clan meeting 
were Miss Jessie Bell, Miss Florence 
FI in n, MIbs Kerr and Mrs. A. E. Abel, 
all of Sharon; Miss Elizabeth Steven
son, Miss Helen Hewitt, Miss Edith 
Pearson, Mrs. J. F. I-Illl and Mrs. 
Charles Martin of Youngstown. These 
from New Castle were: Mrs. Welty 
Hugh, Mrs. Ed. Connery, Miss Mabel 
Alexander and Miss Agnes Haun.
The next meeting will be held in 
Youngstown in January.
WASHINGTON CLAN
Friday, December 9, tho Washing
ton Clan will get together for a real 
Tech meeting. , M. R. Walton, super
visor of equipment, and G. L. Til
brook, alumni executive secretary, 
will be present at the meeting. Every 
Tech man and woman in Washington 
should get In'1 touch at once with W. 
H. Norman, Thirteenth street, N. W., 
care Chesapeake & Potomac Tele
phone Company, for particulars.
IMPORTANT, STUDENTS,
IMPORTANT
To all undergraduates, both men 
and women, let the alumni office sug
gest that you read carefully the di
rectory of Tech Clans, on Alumni 
Page. If your home Is in any of the 
cities named or nearby towns please 
report y^ur name and address to the 
alumni office for Christmas parties, 
banquets, etc.
There are two parties booked. One 
in Boston, Massachusetts, the last 
part of December for all New Eng
land people. The other at the Co
lonial Country Club, Harrisburg, Pa., 
December 20.
Philadelphia
Clan Blow-Out
Dinner Dance to Feature 
Alumnaes Evening of 
Frivolity
We wont use dynamite, T. N. T.,
or----------but just promise you a
good time at three and one-half 
berries a copy.
Dick Horton says lie* is tired of 
watching some of we birds eat, and 
he'd like a regular dance. Well 
weve got to eat and lots of us wa,nt 
to dance so we will do both. Algie 
Ball has got to bring his own girl 
and anyone else who wants to dance 
will do the same. If you need part
ners for the* grand ball the chair
man of the committee will be glad, 
to provide them, male or female, 
satisfaction guaranteed; just give 
us the specifications. Guarantee 
bonds will be provided on applica
tion to Deacon Exline, representing 
the Fidelity and Deposit Company 
of Maryland.,
DatSaturday evening, Decem
ber 10.
Time6:30 p. m.
PlaceArcadia Cafe.
Dtails of FrivolityDinner with 
music, short speeches dancing, three 
hours of it, jazzin every minute, 
strangle hold) is barred (Doc. Styri 
note.) This is to be a regular party, our own banquet room and dance 
floor entirely apart from the com
mon herd you wont be compelled 
to fight for a place to put your feet.
Don't Fall to Be There.
Get your name in the society col
umn or police court news Sunday 
morning. Disables or disorderly 
will be provided transportation home 
or elsewhere by Techltes with cars 
or by the police patrol.
We hope to have such an outburst 
of the old Tech Spirit that the po
lice reserves will be necessary to 
squelch it.
Most important of all, send checks 
immediately to insure parking at 
table and traffic clearance on dance 
floor 'to W. P. Lippincott, 1023 South 
Forty-sixth street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Do it now.
W. P. Lippincott, chairman; J. P. 
Bailey, R. H. Horton, J. S. Charles, 
P. W. Emmel, committee.
P. |9.Habiliments, overalls to 
boiled, shirts for the male of the 
species. Ladies use your judgment 
and let your conscience be your 
guide.
DO IT RIGHT!
With the Goodyear Welt System
TECH SHOE REPAIRING
FORBES (Near Craig)
LM-1: 3MRYHDMS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
near 48th Street, New York. 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Exhibit Shops 
In ail the larger cities.
ANNUAL ALUMNI SMOKER
CARNEGIE UNION
Thursday, December 8, 8 P. M.
Wonderful ProgramSmokesEats.
Football TeamSeniorsSporting 
Editors to be guests of honor.
EVERY ALUMNUS OUT
CLANS, READ CAREFULLY
Duringtlio football season there 
have been many complaints of Tech 
scores not being printed in eastern 
newspapers. This matter has been 
brought to the attention of the alumni 
office, many times and everything lias 
been done to correct it but so far 
without results. There is every rea
son In the world why Tech scores 
should bo in all the leading newspa
pers in the country, because we now 
share'1 in athletics with Class "A 
teams among the foremost colleges.
We feel that tills can be accom
plished if the Clans will only follow 
a suggestion which is: Write the as
sociated news or the different news
papers In your Clan city, tolling them 
you have a Carnegie Tech Club and 
that you would like to lmvo Tech 
scores printed in their newspapers. 
Also include in tills letter aiiy other 
Information you ;feel will be of value 
to tho institution. If this matter is 
brought to tho attention of tho vari
ous city nowspapers at once, wo 'feel 
that Tech will get its share of pub
licity and you will lie helping the 
school ,ln a matter In which we have 
boon unsuecqssful heretofore.
JSMSMS/SMSMSMSMSiSiSMSipSMSMSMSMSJSMSiSMSMS/SMSMMSMSMMSJSJSMSMSI
Schenley Hotel, Sat., Dec. 10 
WARINGS ORCHESTRA
MARGARET MORRISON
ALUMNAE NEWS
Tho Christmas PartyMerry Christ
mas To All, and To All a 
Good Time.
That is to be tho spirit of tills 
party and you will be sure to miss an 
exceedingly good time if you dont 
come. It is to be just an informal, 
got-together, family party for faculty, 
students and alumnae. There will be 
a program of vaudeville acts, both or
iginal and reminiscent, following 
which Santa Claus will dispense gifts 
and good cheer. Students and alum
nae are presenting the program on 
a fifty-fifty basis. It will be worth 
while to come out and see your old 
classmates perform.
The program will be given in the 
gym, but Santa Claus will receive1 
in the recreation hall. The price of 
admission is to be some small toy 
suitable for presentation to a hospital 
for children. Do not stay away be
cause you have no one to leave with 
your own children. Call Sclienley 
2600 and ask for the employment of
fice and Helen Stewart will arrange 
to send some one to your house to 
keep the kiddies. Or if you would 
rather, bring them along and we will 
try to entertain them in a separate 
room. But do come and renew your 
youth. Thursday evening, December 
15th.
Alumnae who are taking part in the 
program are Lottie Sliaffner Young, 
Ruth Turkle Buente, Jane Caldwell 
Harrold, Mary Morrow Patterson, 
Katherine Sawyer, Bertha Steiner, 
Laura FI Inn Spooner, Lillian Con well, 
Ruth Welty, Helen Wassel, Lorlne 
Fried man, Helen Clark and numerous 
others.
Those helping with the arrange
ments are Mary Williams, Anna McCandless, Miriam Welkert, Margaret 
Griffin, Louise Irvin and others.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB DANCE
Last Saturday night tho Toch Cos
mopolitan Club held its first danco 
of tho year in the Union. Eve Hughes' 
Orchestra furnished tho music of the 
evening. A larger crowd than was ex
pected attended, one hundred and 
thirty couples being presont.
The work of the committee and 
club members combined to make tho 
dance a success.
'Pile patrons and patronesses were: 
Divector and Mrs. E. R. Bossange.
e tor - ard Mrs. .1 T. Morris and 
Dr and Mrs. Esquerre.
SUBSCRIPTION $2.20
SCHENLEY DANCING CLUB
SPECIALEDISON BOUDOIR SET....................................................$5.95
Consisting of 3-ltj. Iron, Stand, Cord, Curling Iron and Cloth Bag. 
This week onlyElectrical Appliances Repaired.
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY 
Phone Schenley 4545 4521 FORBES ST., Near Craig
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
;i: JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
V Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year,
.j. BELL PHONE
V Classes each evening. Private lessons daily.
x A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
REGULATING YOUR 
EXPENSES
Every big corporation so 
regulates its operating ex
penses as to give a profiiL
The same regulation ap
plied to .your incqme will 
leave a surplus each month 
which we shall be glad to In
vest for you, be it small or 
big.
Mellon N.onalBank
,h. Pa.
After Euery Meal
TEN
FORFIVE CENTS
D130The Flavor Lasts!
Hitlorf or Crookes Tube
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winiton-Snlom, N. C.J
 Dr. and Mrs. I
Mike (in hi: 
wording to tlij 
forbidden. I 
Bellboy: 
flip apples im
Mike (in hbtel): I see that aoordlng to th| hotel orders, tips are 
forbidden.
Bellboy: jjies. sir. but so were
flip apples i* the Garden of Eden.
y
How Were X-Rays Discovered?
SIR James Mackenzie Davidson visited Professor Roentgen to find 
out how he discovered the X-rays.
Roentgen had covered a vacuum tube, called a Hittorf or Crookes 
tube, with black paper so as to cut off all its light. About four yards 
away was a piece of cardboard coated with a fluorescent compound. 
He turned on the current in the tube. The cardboard glowed brightly.
Sir James asked him: What did you think?
I didnt think, I investigated, said Roentgen. He wanted to 
know what made the cardboard glow. Only planned-experiments 
could give the answer. We all know the practical result. Thousands 
of lives are saved by surgeons who use the X-rays.
Later on, one of the scientists in the Research Laboratory of the 
General Electric Company became interested in a certain phenomenon 
sometimes observed in incandescent lamps. Others had observed it, 
but he, like Roentgen, investigated. The result was the discovery 
of new laws governing electrical conduction in high vacuum.
Another scientist in the same laboratory saw that on the basis of those 
new laws he could build a new tube for producing X-rays more effec
tively. This was the Coolidge X-ray tube which marked the greatest 
advance in the X-ray art since the original discovery by Roentgen.
Thus, scientific investigation of a strange phenomenon led to the 
discovery of a new art, and scientific investigation of another strange 
phenomenon led to the greatest improvement in that art.
It is for such reasons that the Research Laboratories of the General 
Electric Company are continually investigating, continually exploring 
the unknown. It is new knowledge that is sought. But practical 
results follow in an endless stream, and in many unexpected ways.
GeiveralEctricCompanyGeneral OfficeSchenectady, N. Y.
=\
