I.XI'IOIIING COMPANY h 
lili NI I IHUOUCTAAHIMANCf COMMUNITY
Ni: r.vcM'i: I.X'ONGC 1Mnt.Son MPAOYl iHNUT'.GC ilf 11. :: ..j. iiuioii;i"-5 tin-o Popcf holVare uvl Motcape Lr;?'<P este*: ions, v/hictybring 3 D tfi DyVl^d i lie bti.i ii'i-v In vjdiiioii, more tlviii 50 cox. Ivi'Wihj World-:, the fieXt-grneKitiOil VRML 0 SpeCIS Silicon vJriipliK.s.
Irarnm:T Iranm:nNttstnpe supports qtrn stmiJa!;:, inclwng Fus Ain ow -vhy tme pages all over the Iraemet have gone W
TnrvnmAhi Ivrnfmr:h !ffa'fimu nv tmn:ivm Ah Netsc<<pe iind Comp") 'nnonnc ?ii <v;frm*rJ io de Ir
ini fi! 'Im vnu: t<j businesses. : pmi o the igreeny 
<oni niurec SYryer software "/li uvory Compaq siw
tmn:ivm tv<hAvnar
flie brin testing is
R.EI.EASED;f Read ow  
i'I.'l-:.'-
Netscape: Welcome to Netscape
lmag?s
Lo lion : hUp://hw*.iw^^.oorn/r-Vto<kxJiffn1 - -
VhtHw? I Vh*t't Cool? | H*n*ock [ fM&ttrth | NtMrtorv|
Courtesy of Netscape, Inc.
Telecommunication bill makes mark on CMU
I.X.'ON GCXM. PNAYli HX.Y.HYU OYTCompetition will lower telecom costs for CMU
By GEL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Telecommunications Act 
of 1996, enacted on February 8, 
is expected to affect CMU in a 
number of ways. The bill allows 
long distance telecommunica
tion providers, local phone ser
vice, and cable-TV service pro
viders to get into each others 
business.
The primary effect of the new 
legislation was to introduce com
petition into two sectors of the 
telecommunications industry; 
local phone and cable television 
service. The bill also allows for 
more competition in the long 
distance market by allowing lo
cal telephone and cable compa
nies into that arena. Previously, 
local phone and cable providers 
have had a virtual monopoly on 
service and long distance carri
ers were restricted to that mar
ket only. According to Alex Hills, 
vice provost for Computing Ser
vices, CMU should ultimately 
benefit under the new law. Con
sumers benefit because theyll 
experience lower prices and bet
ter service. Since CMU is a con
sumer of telecommunications 
services, [it] has at least the po
tential to benefit in those two
ways. Its going to take some time 
for these changes to take place and 
we really dont know how much 
lower the prices are going to be or 
how much better the service is 
going to be, he said.
Hills noted that the law is un
precedented in its scope. Theres 
probably no comparable point in 
history when we had so many play
ers and so many different busi
nesses trying to get into each 
others business, he said. The in
troduction of competition into the 
long distance market about 15 
years ago is similar in some re
spects to this new bill. Hills noted 
that as a result of that action, 
long distance prices have come 
down dramatically.
Other countries are also looking 
at deregulating their telecommu
nications industry. According to a 
report by Reuters News Service 
last Friday, a Japanese govern
ment panel recommended that 
Japan enhance competition, lower 
costs, and push for more varied 
services in the telecommunications 
industry by splitting NTT (Nippon 
Telegraph and Telephone) into 
three companies in 1998.
CMUs Telecommunications 
group works to provide telecommu
nications phone service, voice mail, 
Please see COMPETITION, page 3
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
When the Telecommunication Act of
1996 reached President Clinton on Feb
ruary 8, it had passed through years of 
debate, several issues of which are still 
being contested in the courts 
after its signing into law. The 
stakes are high, as this bill 
fects virtually all Americans.
Some consumer groups have 
expres sed concerns that the bill 
will lead to higher prices. Civil 
liberties groups argue that free 
speech rights are being cur
tailed as a result of two provi
sions that prevent posting in
decent material on the Internet 
that may be accessible to mi
nors and prohibit discussion of 
abortion related material.
Last Thursday, a federal 
judge in Philadelphia issued an 
order that prevents the federal 
government from enforcing the 
indecency section of the bill (the 
Communications Decency Act) 
while the courts decide the fate 
of the provision. The partial and 
tempbrary restraining order 
comes in light of a lawsuit filed 
by the American Civil Liberties 
Union (ACLU) and nineteen 
other organizations. According 
to Reuters News Service, one 
issue the judge is considering is 
whether or not the law is too 
vague to be constitutional.
Alex Hills, vice provost for Computing 
Services, said, I think we can pretty much 
guess that this is going to be tied up in court 
for a long time, so this is going to take some 
time to work itself out and I am not expect
ing anything imminent as far as anyone 
trying to enforce this particular provision.
Netscape's background was black n protest against the new 
telecom bill. The usual home page is shown in the right corner.
I think its going to take a long time for the 
court to do their work.
A protest to the provision was launched 
across the Internet by the Coalition to Stop 
Net Censorship. Their campaign involved ask
ing web servers everywhere to turn their World 
Wide Web Page background color to black 
from February 8when the Presi
dent signed the bill  to 11 am on 
February 10.
According to Jonah Seiger, a 
Policy Analyst at the Center for 
Democracy and Technology in the 
nations capitol, The black page 
protest was not an attempt to in
fluence President Clinton to not 
sign the bill  we never expected 
he would see a black web page and 
decide at the last minute to veto it. 
Instead, we wanted to provide a 
visual image of the chilling effect 
the CDA (Communications De
cency Act) will have on the net... 
and spread the message that aver
age netusers were concerned about 
the impact of the bill. It worked 
extremely well in this regard. This 
group and others worry that this 
provision may be the beginning of 
a nascent trend with regard to cen
sorship of Internet material.
A number of prominent Internet 
sites turned their World Wide Web 
pages black including Yahoo and 
Lycos, a CMU spin-off company, 
while CMU pages were not turned 
black. Alex Hills said that Lycos is 
a privately held company. Its 
Please see INTERNET, page 3
Forum
Effects of Pirates 
sale  see page 7
Features
Chinese New Year 
 see page LI
Volume 90, Issue 17Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190619 February 199S
Inside
Calendar.........................
Classified........................
Comics............................
Diversions.....................1,
Forum...............................
Living...............................
Sports...............................
Eagles fall to Tartans...
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor 
Senior forward Kevin Byrne led the Tartans in scoring with 21 
points In CMUs 69-63 victory over Emory last Friday evening.
THE TARTAN
Memory stolen from Wean computer cluster
By AMITKAR
Tartan Business Manager
Wean Halls 5419 cluster was the tar
get of a high-tech heist on Friday morn
ing. According to Campus Police, a single 
perpetrator remained inside the cluster 
after the room had been locked and spent 
several hours removing memory chips 
from the Power Macintosh computers. 
At press time, the full extent of the 
damage has not been divulged.
According to Chief James LaPaglia, 
director of security, the lone actor hid 
under a trap door in the uppermost level 
of the cluster while security locked and 
alarmed it for the night. This proce
dure, which includes a visual sweep of
the room, was completed at 12:36 am. 
The cluster was re-opened slightly after
3 am for cleaning, at which time the 
thief was spotted running out of the 
room. During the time the cluster was 
locked, the individual not only removed 
the cases from 64 of the Macs in the 
cluster, but also positioned the free
standing white boards in front of the 
doors in order to hinder pursuit, said 
LaPaglia.
According to Becky Clark, an admin
istrative assistant for the 15-127 Intro
duction to Computer Programming, the 
thief did not remove the memory chips 
from all 64 opened computers. She said 
that the damage, in material terms, was 
not as bad as we initially thought.
However, she added that, whoever the 
thief is... they are affecting all the people 
who take classes here, and it really bites. 
The cluster will remain closed well into 
next week, and the consequences for 
this semesters 15-127 students are yet 
to be determined.
The perpetrator, described as a 5'8" 
Asian male with a dark complexion, 
pointy nose, and wearing a heavy green 
plaid shirt with large dark squares, was 
seen by several CMU security officers 
and CPS employees as he ran out of the 
room. According to Officer Paul Helffrich, 
who gave pursuit and filed the subse
quent report, the thief exited Wean 
through the patio doors and entered 
Porter Hall.
According to LaPaglia, CMU secu
rity had several cars and officers on 
Frew Street. We thought we were in 
pretty good shape to find this guy. 
However, both security and CPS em
ployees confirmed that no one was 
seen leaving Porter during the pur
suit and the thief was not found. This 
has led LaPaglia to the conclusion that 
the perpetrator probably had some
where to go.
The thief left only two pieces of. evi
dence at the crime scene: a trap door was 
left open and a two-headed screwdriver 
was dropped as tlie thief exited 5419-A.
Computer-related crime is not new 
to Carnegie Mellon and is a growing 
phenomenon in universities around
the country. LaPaglia has been head
ing an initiative sponsored by CMU 
Security to develop more effective tech
niques for preventing and dealing with 
computer-related crime. In addition 
to working closely with the Pennsyl
vania State Police Computer Crime 
Unit and the Pittsburgh and Allegh
eny County police, CMU has beensharing information with several other in
stitutions including Stanford, Yale, 
and MIT.
Carnegie Mellon Security has issued 
a request for anyone who may have 
any helpful information to come for
ward. They give their assurance that 
any help will be treated in a most 
confidential manner.
Board of Trustees raise tuition 4.3 percent
By JOHN BIGGS The Board was concerned about
Tartan Forum Editor a negative reaction to the change,
and rightfully so. I think its 
pretty damn poor, said sopho
more creative writing major Greg 
Marks. I think I get my moneys 
worth, but the fact that I have to 
President Robert Mehrabian, by get more of my moneys worth tude may be prevalent, the probinflation and a need for a continevery year is kind of annoying. lems stem from higher sources
Undergraduate tuition will rise 
4.3 percent next year, placing the 
fall1996 tuition figure at $19,400. 
This move was prompted, said
tracurricular activities and sup
port services for graduates.
I think its bullshit. said fresh
man Freddy Azures. They over
price things enough and we dont 
get anything more out of paying 
more. While this student attiued increase in 
quality. Tuition 
will rise $800 from 
the current rate of 
$18,600.
The change was 
enacted by the Uni
versity Board of 
Trustees as well as 
a council of stu
dents who were asked about the 
changes. We intended to keep
I didnt even know it was hap
pening. I cant even afford the 
tuition the way it is now."
 Sophomore Eric Gaghan
than the administra
tion.
Reduced spend
ing by the federal 
government has 
forced all major re
search universities 
to assume a greater 
share of the cost of 
education and re
search, said Mehrabian.
Similar increases have occurred 
yearly, and this increase is only 
one of the many that have ocI didnt even know it was hap
pening, said sophomore Eric 
the combined tuition, room, and Gaghan. I cant even afford the
board increases close to the protuition the way it is now.
jected rate of inflation, said In order to assure that a correcurred. Because of this, re-engiMehrabian. The 4.3 figure was lation between quality and a rise neering programs have been en
acted to cut waste from univer
sity spending. This has allowed 
the monies routed from adminis
trative slack to be used by the 
departments for improvements 
and expansions. Its a regular 
thing, said Santosh Mathan, a
I on the common projection in tuition does exist, a benchf inflation, 3 percent. However, mark system will be enacted in 
the Board of Trustees felt that which an examination of each 
rising only to the minimum would departments improvements will 
Qot improve quality, and that a be noted. Mehrabian said that 
1-3 percent increase should be the rise in tuition will be used to 
added to cover improvement. improve academic programs, exgraduate student in CS. Its to 
be expected.
CMUs student costs remain 
$1325 below the average of other 
top schools, according to 
Mehrabian. However, the board 
was concerned that CMU also 
have an equal or greater amount 
of academic quality as compared 
to these top schools. This was not 
the case, and the improvements 
are designed to fill this rift.
We have made great progress 
in the past few years in improv
ing the undergraduate experience 
at Carnegie Mellon, said 
Mehrabian. Weve improved 
teaching and advising and in
vested in the facilities and tech
nology needed to provide ex
panded opportunities for under
graduate research.
While overall student opinion 
seems to be negative, the Board 
of Trustees were convinced that 
the tuition hike was for the best. 
We will remain on a path of 
continuous improvement, said 
Mehrabian, so that we can keep 
administrative costs low while 
increasing the quality and value 
of a Carnegie Mellon education.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996
Page Z...
IRA, England continue to 
struggle towards peace
BELFAST, Northern Ireland, Feb. 
16 (AP)  The IRAs decision to end 
its cease-fire, killing the hopes the 
truce had awakened, has pulled North
ern Irelands citizens together to de
mand peace. However, theres one big 
catch to these shows of solidarity: Dont 
ask how peace should be achieved.
There have been dramatic demon
strations of both harmony and frac
tiousness in recent days. On Friday, 
more than 8,000 people rallied at 
Belfasts city hall for peace  a crowd 
that included members of the IRAallied Sinn Fein party. But the night 
before, a TV show devoted to discuss
ing peace quickly degenerated into a 
rowdy shouting match. In Ireland, 
meanwhile, the national RTE broad
casting service went quiet for a minute 
atl2:30 pm to coincide with the Belfast 
rally. And Irish Foreign Minister Dick 
Spring urged Irish citizens to wear 
white ribbons to demonstrate they 
want  to get back the peace they had.
There are people out there who 
still think they can resort to vio
lence, and they claim to speak on 
behalf of the Irish nation and the 
Irish people, Spring said of the IRA. 
 That is so far removed from reality 
that we should send them a very 
strong message.
If history is any guide, however, 
these public demonstrations will have 
little impact on the IRA, an outlawed 
group that has never required popu
lar sanction for its actions. Everyone 
in Northern Ireland claims to want 
peace, even the Irish Republican Army 
leaders who are bombing London 
again to press their demand that the 
British province become part of the 
Republic of Ireland. Undeterred by 
anti-IRA statements from the plat
form at the Belfast rally, Sinn Fein 
figures stood in the crowd holding 
placards calling for peace talks.
The last time Northern Ireland 
was swept by cross-community 
peace protests was November 1993, 
when trade union leaders demanded 
the Right to Live following backto-back murders by the IRA and by 
Protestant loyalists who want to 
remain part of Britain.
Sporadic killing continued, but the 
following month, the British and Irish 
governments took the protests as in
spiration to offer Sinn Fein a place in 
negotiations if the IRA called a cease
fire. Back-to-back truces by the IRA 
and Protestant loyalists came the fol
lowing fall, giving Northern Ireland 
its first fragile peace in a quartercentury.
Senate fails to pass ban on 
liqour drive-thru windows
SANTA FE Feb. 16 (AP)  A bill 
banning drive-up liquor sales has died 
on the Senate floor as the clock ran out 
on the 30-day legislative session.
It had passed the House just a 
minute earlier on a 59-11 vote Thurs
day.
It was the closest the drive-up ban
 sought for several years by antiDWI activists' had ever come to 
passage.
The House changed the bill from an 
outright prohibition on drive-up sales, 
which the Senate had endorsed, to a 
measure giving communities the op
tion to close the windows.
The change sent it back to the Sen
ate just a couple of minutes before the 
noon adjournment. There was no ef
fort at that point to get the Senate to 
agree to the revised bill.
Senate Majority Leader Tom 
Rutherford, D-Albuquerque, said 
there was no concerted effort to kill 
the bill; the clock simply ran out.
Its sponsor, Sen. Gloria Howes, DGallup, said there wasnt time to deal 
with it. She said she was very disap
pointed at the outcome.
So was Attorney General Tom Udall,
who has pushed legislation to close 
drive-ups for several years.
This means the continuation of 
more dangerous highways for the 
people of New Mexico, Udall said.
There are about 260 windows in 
New Mexico where motorists can buy 
liquor without leaving their vehicles.
Gov. Gary Johnson had said he 
would sign the bill with the provision 
for local option elections. He didnt 
like the version that was an outright 
ban on them.
Although he had proposed that law
makers pass a local option bill, 
Johnson said at a news conference 
after adjournment he doesnt believe 
closing drive-ups would make a dif
ference to the drunken-driving prob
lem.
Supporters of the ban, including 
relatives of people who died in 
drunken driving accidents, had testi
fied during the session that the win
dows create a perception that drink
ing while driving is acceptable.
They said the windows contribute 
to traffic fatalities and make it easier 
for drunk or underage motorists to 
buy liquor.
Clinton supports Russian reform
WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 (AP)  The 
Clinton administration urged Russian 
reformers Thursday to join forces be
hind a single presidential candidate and 
sharply attacked Communist leader 
Gennady Zyuganovs fondness for the 
Soviet era.
In the first of what is likely to be a 
series of U.S. comments on Russias elec
tion campaign, State Department 
spokesman Nicholas Burns said the 
United States has interests in the out
come, and we do not support the anti
reform part of the Russian political spec
trum.
He stressed that the Clinton adminis
tration supports the reform process in 
Russia and credited President Boris 
Yeltsin for steering a course in that 
direction. But he made plain that its the 
process, not a particular reformer, that 
is attractive to the United States.
In this vein, Burns urged what many 
analysts have suggested, that reformist 
candidates rescue the movement from 
the likes of Zyuganov, the front-runner 
in the polls.
We believe it would be advantageous 
and wise for the various reform parties 
to coalesce around a candidate in these 
elections, Bums said. The reason for 
that is quite simple: number one, we 
support reform and reformers. Were 
not going to support individual candi
dates, but we certainly support that pro
cess.
He said Secretary of State Warren 
Christopher intends to meet with a wide 
range of political forces on his trip to 
Moscow in mid-March for talks with 
Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov. 
Only ultranationalist Vladimir 
Zhirinovsky is being ruled out because 
of his views, Bums said.
Bums specialized in Soviet affairs as a 
member of the National Security Coun
cil staff under President Bush. His ex
tensive and blunt remarks at the State 
Departments daily press briefing could 
reflect growing U.S. anxiety that Yeltsin 
cannot win re-election.
Similarly, Vice President A1 Gore 
stressed last month during a visit by 
Russian Prime Minister Viktor S. 
Chernomyrdin that U.S. support for eco
nomic reform goes beyond Yeltsin or 
anybody else. We support a set of prin
ciples, not a single individual, Gore 
said.
Yeltsins popularity has plummeted, 
his policies are in disarray and he has 
heart trouble. Multiple reform candi
dates could split pro-democracy support. 
Meanwhile, despite his lead, Zyuganov 
is unlikely to win without attracting 
non-Communist voters.
On Thursday, in his hometown in the 
Urals, Yeltsin announced he would seek 
a second presidential term and described 
himself as the only guarantor of democ
racy and stability in Russia.
It is not the place of the United States
to intrude on this electoral process, 
Bums said to reporters seeking the 
administrations position on Zyuganovs 
candidacy. It is not the place of the 
United States to declare that we are 
going to favor one candidate or another.
Then the State Department spokes
man continued:
I can tell you what we do favor, how
ever. We favor reform, and by that I 
mean the efforts of individuals across 
the political spectrum in Russia to pro
mote democracy, to promote elections, 
to promote the rule of law, to promote 
economic reform and to promote a Rus
sian foreign policy that pays due respect 
to the territorial integrity and sover
eignty of Russias neighbors and to good 
relations with the United States.
So the United States has interests 
here that are very important, but we are 
under no illusions that we can affect 
these elections. And you will not see us 
declaring our support for any party or 
any candidate.
Zeroing in on Zyuganov, the U.S. offi
cial said the Communist candidate ap
parently has suggested a referendum on 
reestablishment of the Soviet Union. 
Wed criticize most harshly any at
tempt to recreate it or to reverse the 
sovereignty of the 11 republics that de
clared independence along with Russia 
in the 1991 breakup. said Bums.
Police bust potselling pizza joint
BENTON, 111. Feb. 16 (AP)  For 
more than a year, teens wanting a deliv
ery of marijuana knew they could rely on 
their local Dominos Pizza here, police 
say.
A part-time librarian and a Dominos 
night manager have been charged with 
using their jobs to front their more lu
crative business of selling pot.
The joke is that in most towns, 
Dominos pizzas have 12 toppings. Here 
they have 13, Franklin County sheriffs 
investigator J.R. Moore said.
Moore, who participated in a fivemonth investigation that led to two grand 
jury indictments last month, on Thurs
day said that more charges could come 
after the grand jury reconvenes today. 
Moore said neither the Dominos fran
chise owner nor library personnel knew 
of the alleged activities.
The franchise owner has been active 
in an anti-drug program and was to
tally in the dark about the marijuana 
deliveries, Moore said.
Part-time Benton librarian Ella J. 
Jackson, 25, and the local Dominos Pizza 
night shift manager, Korby E. Kirkman, 
20, were indicted January 12 on calcu
lated criminal cannabis conspiracy 
charges.
This was a big source for people here 
in the 16- to 21-years-old crowd, Moore 
said. Most of the customers are basi
cally pretty good kids whove never been 
in trouble before. You mention jail to 
them, and they start crying. 
Authorities say the unusual delivery 
system in this southern Illinois town of 
7,216 people worked like this: 
Customers would visit or phone Jack
son at the library and give her mari
juana orders and advance payment. At 
weeks end, she would drive to the 
Belleville area to fill the orders from a 
supplier now under investigation. Moore 
said Jackson and Kirkman then would 
distribute the marijuana in Dominos 
Pizza delivery boxes during weekends.
Two trains collide killing 11 people
SILVER SPRING, Md., Feb. 16 (AP) 
Federal investigators combed through 
the twisted wreckage of a deadly rail
way crash Saturday, looking for reasons 
why a local commuter train and an 
Amtrak passenger liner collided on a 
snowy evening, killing 11 people.
The essentially head-on crash oc
curred when both trains were in motion 
at the junction of a cross-track switch 
that the Amtrak Capitol Limited was 
entering to continue its journey to Chi
cago.
It was not a crawl, said National 
Transportation Safety Board member 
John Goglia. We dont know who should 
have stopped and who had the right of 
way, he said. There was no immediate 
indication of problems with the wayside 
signals that direct train movement, rais
ing the possibility that either one of the 
trains passed a red light or the signals 
had not been properly set.
Goglia said the safety board is review
ing recorders that monitor the signals 
and switches. Obviously the whole sys
tem needs to be examined. Thats what 
were doing right now. Most of the 
victims were Job Corps trainees travel
ing home from West Virginia for a holi
day weekend, but the three members of 
the commuter train crew were also pre
sumed dead.
President Clinton said Americans ex
tend our thoughts and prayers to the 
families of the accident victims. We 
are working hard to find out what caused 
this tragedy.
Labor Secretary Robert Reich, whose 
department administers the Job Corps, 
called the fatal crash an especially poi
gnant tragedy because the students had 
made a decision to make something 
more out of their lives.
After surveying the wreckage, Mary
land Gov. Parris Glendening described 
the scene as devastating. ... All I can, 
pray for is that those who died, died 
instantaneously.
The 11 bodies recovered from the 
wreckage were taken to the Baltimore 
medical examiners office, where DNA, 
tests and dental records would be used 
to make identifications.
Goglia said the commuter trains engi
neer appeared to have applied brakes 
moments before the crash. But it was 
unclear whether there had been an at
tempt to stop the Amtrak train as well.
Four-Day Forecast
MondayCloudy with a few 
sprinkles in the 
afternoon. High in 
the mid 30s.
TuesdayCloudy and breezy. 
High near 55. 
Chance of rain 80 
percent.
Wednesday
Rain likely. High 
around 50. Low In the 
30s.
ThursdayMostly cloudy with 
chance of showers. 
High in the 40s. Low 
in upper 30s.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, February 18, 
1946: A Tartan editorial criticized 
National Brotherhood Week, 
which was dedicated to religious 
and racial tolerance, for the lack of 
real equality in society. The fact 
that it is necessary to set aside one 
week of the year in which we be
come aware for a brief moment of 
the of the equality of man, reveals 
the ironic truth that we are failing 
to achieve these high-minded and 
worthy goals. The editorial called 
for readers to make a conscien
tious effort to eliminate prejudice 
from their daily lives.
25 YEARS AGO, February 18, 
1971: An article in the Tartan 
advocated recycling as a solution 
for reducing the waste produced 
in Pittsburgh.
Modern industry has reached 
such a great output, and is ex
pending resources at such an 
ever-increasing rate, that the 
time has come to worry about the 
availability of future resources. 
GRIP (Group Recycling In Pitts
burgh), was cited as an example 
of how to successfully organize a 
recycling program.
10 YEARS AGO, February 18, 
1986: Senator Joseph Biden de
livered a speech deriding the for
eign policies of the Democrats 
and Republicans as simplistic and 
naive.
Biden said that when they en
tered office, Carter and Reagan 
were both blank slates regard
ing foreign policy, and that they 
consequently developed reactive 
policies.
Biden advocated multiple steps 
for revamping foreign policy, in
cluding achieving parity with the 
Soviet military; better articula
tion of current policy to the Ameri
can people; cooperation between 
the U.S. and Soviet Union on 
topics such as the environment 
and nuclear proliferation, and the 
development of a sophisticated
view of the Third World that does 
not divide countries into good 
guys and bad guys.
FIVE YEARS AGO, February 
18,1991: An article in the Tartan 
examined the relationship be
tween CMU and the Gulf War. 
According to the article, many 
departments at CMU receive 
funding from the military, and 
while the majority of it is for basic 
research, CMU occasionally takes 
task-oriented projects.
The article cites a program
ming project as an example of 
task-oriented projects that the 
University handles. In the 
project, students designed a re
placement for the militarys 
schedule system. The old system 
was unable to handle the data
load from the Gulf War. The CMU 
programmers created a new sys
tem that could handle the cur
rent load.
A student who worked on the 
project expressed dissatisfaction. 
I wasnt told ahead of time what 
I was doing, because I probably 
wouldnt have done it if I had 
known ahead of time, said the 
student, who was not identified 
in the article.
The article concluded that while 
most research at CMU is innocu
ous, some of it finds direct appli* 
cation with the military, such as j 
artificial intelligence research 
that has been incorporated into 
sophisticated weaponry.
Compiled by 
ANDREW McDERMOTTThe Tartan
Number 16Cariiede-Mellon University
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
February 11, ^986^. 
The Tartan celebrates its 90th anniversary this year. Heres the papers 1986 flag---------------------------------------------------

Increased competition may lower phone, cable TV prices
COMPETITION, from page I
video conferencing, satellite up
link, cellular services, data and 
voice wiring for the campus and 
phone lines, wiring, voice mail, 
and long distance for CMU stu
dents. According to Mary L. PretzLawson, head of Telecommunica
tions at CMU, many of these could 
be affectedby the new bill andnew 
services could arise.
I expect competition to open 
up new services to all of campus, 
includingstudents, withmultiple 
services perhaps being provided 
by few vendors and possibly over 
the same media. For example, 
phone service, cable TV, desktop 
video may be offered in the future 
over the same wiring. Competi
tion should drive the prices lower 
too. She says these changes will 
likely take about 2 years to come 
to fruition.
Hills expressed similar opti
mism about the bill, saying, We 
can hope to get better rates and 
maybe higher speed circuits, more 
features, things like that.
There were some underlying 
concerns expressed about the bill, 
however. There is a danger to it 
though: and the danger is that 
one of these companies, AT&T or 
one of the others, might become 
so big that they could leverage 
themselves into becoming a total 
monopoly again forcing the oth
ers out of business, he said. The 
only thing that prevents that from 
happening is the antitrust law 
that is already in the booksthe 
Sherman Act [and] the Clayton 
Act, said Hills.
New rules mean new choices, 
notedPretz-Lawson, In the short 
term, we need to predict when 
these new opportunities will be 
mature enough to buy into, while 
getting in early enough to 
Set the best deals. If successful, 
we can bring new services to cam
pus, with attractive rates, and 
keep our competitive edge in be
ing a leader in computing and 
communications technologies. 
These new services are already 
starting to be implemented, just 
5 after the signing of the bill. 
Hills said that AT&T is definitely 
*ery interested in providing local 
telephone exchange service not 
>>ly in Pittsburgh, but in markets
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
international destinations 
Discounted' domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
f:r.'.HY.Xv 
c'.HXNU i.'1Y.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
all across the country. Bell Atlan
tic, which until recently had a 
monopoly on local telephone ser
vice in this area, is now interested 
in becoming a long distance pro
vider. According to Hills, Just the 
other day, Bell Atlantic filed for 
permission in several states in the 
Midwest and South to become a 
long distance carrier in those 
places. Those companies have to 
meet some special requirements 
before they are allowed to go into 
the long distance market.
Just as the bill will affect CMU, 
CMU has had an effect on the bill 
in some sense. Hills, Marvin Sirbu, 
and Ben Bennington have been 
involved in the national debate on 
deregulation ofthe industry. Pretz~ 
Lawson has been involved at the 
state level with the Pennsylvania 
Public Utility Commission.
Hills believes that the notori
ous Rimm study may have had 
an affect on the Internet inde
cency provision of the bill. The 
Rimm study appeared on the 
cover of Time magazine, so one 
can imagine that certainly had 
some impact on the national de
bate about this issue, he said.
While some have called the bill 
revolutionary in nature, Hills 
believes that the end result of 
the new law, the deregulation of 
the telecommunications indus
try, would have happened any
way, law or no law; I would say,
first of all, that the changes that 
are happening were going to hap
pen anyway, whether they hap
pen by virtue of this particular 
legislation or not. What we find 
is that a lot of things are driven 
by technology. When technology 
makes it possible for things to 
happen, a lot of times they hap
pen, one way or another. In this 
case, technology has completely 
changed the economics of the tele
communications industry. It did 
not require an act of Congress to 
do this.
He said an alternative means 
could have been used to achieve 
the same ends:  The same effect 
could have happened, competi
tion in local exchange and cable 
TV service, by two things hap
pening: a decision by [the judge 
who presided over the AT&T case 
from the last decade] and a deci
sion by the FCC.
As to the reasoning behind the 
bills enactment, Hills said Prob
ably the underlying reason that 
it happened was because the tech
nology had gotten to the point 
[where] it made sense for these 
industries to be competitive. For 
one thing, it makes sense for wire
less [communications] because 
wireless completely changes the 
economics of the local telephone 
industry [by reducing start-up 
costs associated with traditional 
initial cable investments].
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Electronic grading to be introduced next fall
Next fall, professors wont be writing out grades 
by hand. By tapping a few keys, their As, Bs, and 
Rs will be sent over the internet.
The faculty will be able to enter grades, pull up 
student information, and submit an encrypted 
file to the Registrars office in less time than it 
would have taken me to find the No. 2 pencil I use 
to fill out the scanner sheet, said Mark Stehlik.
While students will not be affected, the glad 
smiles of the less stressed professors will be a 
welcome sight in next year.
Sophomore honored
Gil Alterovitz, ECE major, won an honorable 
mention in USA Todays All-American Team for 
a SURG project entitled DNA Classification 
Using a Neural Network. His advisor, Professor 
Jose Moura, and the Undergraduate Research 
Initiative were cited as important parts of 
Alterovitzs research.
Teaching center receives $2.5 grant
The Eberly Family Charitable Trust has awarded 
CMU a $2.5 million grant to create the Eberly 
Center for Teaching Excellence. This grant will be 
used to expand the activities of the University 
Teaching Center, a program founded to help fac
ulty and graduate students enhance their teaching 
skills.
This center can be an asset to educators at many 
area institutions, said manager Robert Eberly. It 
can make a real difference throughout our region 
in the quality of the preparation available to stu
dents at every level.
The money will be used to develop and rede
sign courses and facilities at the current Teach
ing Center. It will also be used to benefit the 
work of CMUs Center for Innovation in Learn
ing, an applied research group that examines 
how students learn.
Compiled by 
JOHN BIGGS
FEBRUARY ISAmerican Heart 
Association^
Fighting Heart Disease 
and Stroke
For more information, contact your local American 
Heart Association or call 1-800-AHA-USA1.
IAS VEGAS n
LOS ANGELES
HIM MIEI IIHUHtSo
SALT UWE CITY
Si14
If you want to get away from it all this'winter, Amtrak" is the wayto go. Especially when you can save 15% off awesome getaways with the 
Student Advantage Card. Call 1-800-96-AMTRAK to get your card. And, take your pick of cool places, hot spots and hundreds of other 
colorful vacation destinations designed to take your mind off the winter blues. Pick your destination now and call your travel 
agent or Amtrak for reservations at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Winter getaway seats are limited so call today 
while the gettings good.
All prices are one wav, based on round-trip coach lare with 15% Student Advantage Card discount. Fares are based on availability and are subject to change without notice. Seats are limited. 
Additional charge lor First Class or other accommodations. Other restrictions may apply.
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996
Iraqi professor urges U.S. to lift sanctions
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The only human thing we can do is to 
call for the lifting of the embargo, said 
Abbas Ali, a professor of management at 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania, 
when describing the conditions in Iraq 
and Americas role in creating them dur
ing his talk at Carnegie Mellon.
Ali, who has extensively researched 
and written about the Gulf War, was 
bom in southern Iraq, and emigrated to 
the U.S. in 1976. The last time he visited 
Iraq was in 1981.
Alis lecture stressed the fact that the 
Iraqi people are suffering. The economic 
embargo against the Iraqi people is the 
highest form of racism that we might 
encounter in the contemporary world, 
he said. He then cited statistics stating 
twice as many Iraqis have died from the 
embargo than were killed during the 
war. He also said that the U.S. Depart
ment of Agriculture reports stated that 
five million Iraqis are facing starvation 
because of the sanctions.
Critics of the embargo have claimed 
that diseases are also devastating Iraq 
because the embargo has prevented the 
importation of medical supplies. Ali said,
The number of people dying and the 
variety of diseases are unimaginable.
The embargo and war have also so
cially affected Iraq. They have crippled 
a country that once was one of the most 
developed third-world nations. The re
duced standards of living have also af
fected the morals in Iraqi 
society. The morale and 
morals of Iraqis are chang
ing and might be changing 
forever, said Ali, citingthe 
increase in prostitution 
and bribery in the country 
following the war.
Ali attributed Saddam,
Husseins rise and the cur
rent problems to Americas 
attempts to influence the balance of 
power in the Middle East. He spoke 
about Americas desire to have coun
tries ruled by dictators because they are 
easier to control than democracies.
Ali said, [Saddam] is a gangster. He 
has no loyalty, except to those that he 
thinks might have some power over 
him, and that might explain his loy
alty to the United States for many 
years, because he thought that the 
U.S. was able to dictate what was 
going on in the region.
Despite all the focus on removing 
Hussein during Desert Storm, he still 
remains in power. The Clinton Admin
istration is saying that we are not going 
to lift the embargo unless Saddam 
Hussein is going to be kicked out, and at 
the same time saying that Saddam
Hussein is the only acceptable leader we 
have, so the embargo stays, said Ali.
Before the invasion of Kuwait, the 
U.S. supported Saddam because they 
saw him as a way to balance Irans 
growing populist influence in the re
gion. Many ofthe dictators in the region 
might have been deposed if this had 
succeeded, lessening Americas influence 
in the region.
Ali feels the American people really 
dont understand the tragedies that oc
curred in Iraq.
Alis speech was preceeded by the video 
Lines in The Sand which analyzed the 
Gulf War and the American successes 
from a propaganda viewpoint. The video 
stated that the Gulf War media cam
paign fully erased all the doubts about 
war that were raised by the Vietnam 
War, and the U.S. made 
the war seem like a neat 
video game with the 
militarys footage of smart 
bombs and surgical strikes. 
According to the video, 93% 
of the bombs dropped on 
Iraq were unguided bombs, 
and that the smart bombs 
were only part of the story. 
With the severe restric
tions on the press during the war, many 
of the tragedies were overlooked, ac
cording to Ali. One of these was the 
bombing of the Ameriya shelter, which 
was a bomb shelter for women and chil
dren; only six people escaped alive. 
Scenes like this one didnt draw major 
attention, and so the victory appeared to 
be a bloodless conflict.
Ali hopes that the U.S. government 
will lift the five-year-old embargo on 
Iraq and ease the suffering of the Iraqi 
people.
Net protests 
telecom bill
INTERNET, from page 1
physically located upstairs [in Warner 
Hall], but they rent space from the 
University... so what Lycos does with 
their page is their business. As for 
the Universitys policy, he said, CMU 
had no policy with respect to its web 
pages. If someone within CMU chose 
to turn their pages black [they could 
have]. He did say that he observed 
certain web sites that were not ac
cepting requests from users which had 
the suffixes .mil [military sites], .gov 
[government sites], or .edu [educa
tional institutions] during the pro
test period.
This latest protest against what 
some call Internet censorship is not 
the first such incident. In an earlier 
protest of the same bill in December, 
over 20,000 net users phoned, faxed, 
and emailed members of Congress, 
according to Jonah Seigler of the Cen
ter for Democracy and Technology. 
Seigler added that another event in
volved an [Internet] online petition in 
the spring of 1995 which generated 
over115,000 names in support of Sena
tor Leahys alternative to the CD A.
"The economic embargo against 
the Iraqi people is the highest form 
of racism that we might encounter 
in the contemporary world."
 Professor Abbas Ali

---------------------------------------------------

REMEMBER WHEN DAD TOLD YOU WATCHING TV WAS A WASTEOf
TIME?
In the emerging world 
of interactive television 
(ITV), your TV savvy and 
strong CS or EECS 
background could be worth a lot more than what's 
behind Door Number 2.
At Wink Communications we're creating the 
software that will make interactive television a 
reality. But our major industry partnerships won't 
be enough to ensure our static-free reception in this 
new 500-channel world. Only your awesome 
technical skills, creativity, drive, and extensive TVwatching experience will keep us on the right 
channel.
In addition to a fun small-company environment, 
you'll get the training, responsibility, encourage
ment, and gear you need to take a project from start 
to finish. ("Cable TV in my office? Cool.")
But wait, there's more: on top of a great salary,
medical and dental benefits, 
your hard work will earn 
you stock options!
So if you're looking for a 
great job, put down the remote and come see our 
company presentation on February 28th from 7 to 9 
pm in the Career Center (#19 Warner Hall, Room 
207). Interviews will be held the following day, 
Friday the 29th, from 9 am until 4:30 pm. We are 
interviewing on a preselected basis, so if you are 
interested, please submit your resume and 
transcripts as soon as possible. Resumes should be 
submitted to the Career Center (#19 Warner Hall, 
Room 207). Please mark them "Attn: Todd Swanson 
for Wink Communications."
If you miss our presentation and interviewing 
schedule, we would be delighted if you would send 
us your resume and transcript anyway, to the 
address below.
HE LIED.
MOA :Urr'O.PHOUC
Please send your resume and transcript to: 
Wink Communications, 1001 Marina Village Parkway, Alameda, CA 94501. Attn: College Recruiting. 
Wink Communications is an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 19965
"At Teradyne new ideas are welcome and Hie 
environment is conducive to growth. You get as 
much responsibility as you want."
Regan Mills
Hardware Deskj. Engineer 
i:xiussii?.i Consumer Division 
Boston,' EIA
BS Electrical Engneefiwj 
MssscCtiuseits Institute of Tect 
Cambridge. MA. 1992
Clintos Don unp rlintos oliRn olate
The right placefor you.
Qeradyne is the right place for people 
like Regan Mills. It's a stimulating 
environment that challenges people every 
day. Youre free to do the things you think 
need to be done, with a minimum of 
rules, regulations, and bureaucracy. We 
want people who dont need to be led by 
the hand. We want talented, bright people 
with new ideas and the initiative to give 
those ideas a shot.
Youll have plenty of opportunity at 
Teradyne. Were an $800 million electron
ics company that competes in the global 
market, working with the world's largest 
companies. Our technology is unmatched,, 
and our commitment to Total Quality 
Management is unwavering. In other 
words, were big... but not too big!
If you want to learn more about your 
place at Teradyne, visit your Career 
Services Office or check out our home 
page on the Internets World Wide Web at 
http://www.teradyne.com
An Equal Opportunity Employer
?r.'ei OXXi lAib.' cAAX
By YOSEF BIRNBOIM
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Dining Services has undergone 
many changes recently. One of these important 
changes is the addition of the new kosher/vegetar
ian section in Morewood Gardens.
Annette Allison, head of Carnegie Mellon Con
tract Services, said, we have contracted with Ohev 
Shalom to provide the service. David Lusky, the 
owner, has over 30 items available and is currently 
increasing the product line sold in Morewood as it 
has become quite popular. He grows his own herbs 
and his products are all-natural, with no additives 
or preservatives.
Lusky was a chef in Israel and his products were 
featured in a story in the February 1995 issue of 
Pittsburgh Magazine. The masgiach, supervisor of 
Ohev Shalom, is Rabbi Weiss of Young Israel of 
Pittsburgh. Young Israel is an Orthodox congrega
tion in Squirrel Hill.
Our pretzel vendor, CK Pretzels, also sells ko
sher, vegetarian, and vegan gourmet pretzels. 
Allison said. This is the first of the kosher plans 
that are being made for CMU.
Glen Siniawski, head of the Student Dormitory 
Council ood committee seemed pleased with the 
new changes. Rabbi Art Donsky of the Hillel Foun
dation and Jewish University Center was also 
quite pleased with the additional kosher food.
According to Donsky, until now the only ko
sher food on campus was in the form of frozen 
meals which could be obatined at Highlander. 
These meals were intended to be a temporary 
solution to the demand for kosher food, but 
students were not pleased with the way they 
tasted.
Dining Services also is investigating the feasi
bility of a kosher meal plan in Highlander for the 
fall semester. As we do not have enough kitchen 
space to dedicate to the preparation of kosher 
food, and further comply with specified dietary 
regulations of preparation, the best option would 
be to have it contracted with a local kosher 
caterer who would freshly prepare meals in 
their store and deliver it at meal time, said 
Allison.
Plans are also underway for a kosher cart to be 
run by a vendor from Squrrel Hill. Further details 
are not yet known.
Crime and Incident Report
2/10 OPEN LEWDNESS, 3:18
am. Campus police officers pa
trolling the fraternity quad ob
served a male urinating on a tree. 
He was issued a citation.
2/10 NOISE VIOLATION, 
5:05 am. Having received com
plaints since midnight, campus 
police finally responded to Ca
thedral Mansions, where there 
was a fight in progress. Both par
ties admitted to their actions, and 
apologized for the disturbance.
2/11 PERSONAL ACCI
DENT, 2:52 pm. While patrol
ling the College of Fine Arts, an 
officer observed students enter
ing the freight elevator. The of
ficer felt that it would be danger
ous for the students to ride in the 
elevator, so he tried to warn them. 
However, while warning them, 
his hand was injured by the clos
ing elevator doors. Officers and
student EMS responded and 
transported the officer to West 
Penn Hospital.
2/15 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 8:05 pm. An officer was 
dispatched to Margaret 
Morrison Apartments after it 
was reported that paint balls 
were being thrown at the front 
door of one of the apartments. 
The officer found several orange 
and yellow splotches, but re
ported that no maintenance was 
necessary, because the paint 
came off with a wet towel. No 
one saw who threw the 
paintballs or in which direction 
the person ran.
2/15 MEDICAL, 10:38 pm. 
Campus police and student EMS 
were dispatched to Doherty Hall 
to attend to a student with a cut 
hand. The student had been us
ing a table saw. He was trans
ported to th Presbyterian Emer
gency Room.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
 Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
9 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: theEditorin-Chief the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter who types the report.
 All personal names of complain
ants, victims, suspects, and frater
nity names are omitted from the 
printed report. Ethnic descriptions 
and other personal details aregiven 
only in the context of a complete 
description.
9Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKE
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks article Conference tackles police brutality, it was stated that Pittsburgh 
police officers pulled over Jonny Gammage in Brentwood and suffocated him to death. 
However, the officers were actually Brentwood police officers and they followed him into 
Pittsburgh city limits. All other references to the Pittsburgh police in the article were 
intended to read Brentwood police.
In the February 5 issue, the article Library renovations to relieve space crunch, it was 
stated that the relocation of Instructional Technology was a problem caused by the construc
tion, and was forced to move out because of the construction. IT moved out last year when 
they found space that suited their needs.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, please contact Tartan 
Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. Kraemer at 268-2111.
f1.' s.T gAR.PAXU EATONNU DOiT.XV
TMf A mug
Are you ready to get involved in something? Use your college 
years to do more than just study. The Tartan is currently look
ing for enthusiastic people to take leadership positions as 
news reporters.You do not need any writing experience. What 
you do need is the ambition and determination to get the 
facts. We'll teach you how to write the story. Writing for The 
Tartan gets you more involved on campus. Youll have a bet
ter understanding of how the University works, and youll 
accomplish something you can be proud of. Email es59 if you 
have the drive and desire to do something real.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University19 February 1996
Oakland, Squirrel Hill 
residents need busses
Carnegie Mellon recently decided 
not to expand its shuttle service to 
include the PAT (Port Authority 
Transit of Allegheny County) UZone bus routes; however, because 
of limited housing and parking at 
CMU, the University must imme
diately develop a new plan to offer 
free or inexpensive transportation 
to off-campus students in Oakland 
and Squirrel Hill.
PATs U-Zone busses run along 
Forbes Avenue  perpendicular to 
the present CMU Shuttle routes. 
Pitt students are allowed to ride 
these busses to Shadyside and Oak
land for free while CMU students 
must pay the regular $1.25 per ride. 
These routes were created last year 
after PAT claimed Pitts busses 
(which CMU students could ride 
for free) were infringing on their 
routes. PATclaimed thattheir char
ter gave them exclusive rights to 
these mass transportation routes.
Negotiations to include CMU in 
the U-Zone plan began last spring, 
but the bus company demanded too 
much money for CMU students to 
have the same right as Pitt stu
dents. In fact, it would have cost 
more per student than if the Uni
versity bought monthly passes for 
the students who would ride these 
busses along Forbes to Squirrel Hill 
and Oakland every day.
The University must offer a solu
tion to the Squirrel Hill transporta
tion problem; the problem is too old 
to continue tabling and ignoring. 
Specifically. CMU should offer to 
subsidize PAT bus monthly passes 
to students who live off campus in 
areas not served by the CMU 
shuttle.
Why should the University fund 
transportation for off-campus stu
dents? It already does; students in 
Shadyside can ride the CMU 
Shuttle for free.
The University has a severe short
age of on-campus housing. Every 
year, increasing numbers of fresh
men are forced to live in an Oak
land hotel for a few weeks, and 
many of them end up in off-campus 
housing. The situation would be
come a nightmare for the Univer
sity if more upperclassmen decided 
to live on-campus.
The University cannot just forget 
about its students that open up 
much-needed space for freshmen 
by moving off-campus. CMU caters 
to the needs of students living in 
Shadyside and North Oakland by 
offering the CMU Shuttle. How
ever, those who live in the Squirrel 
Hill area are left with few transpor
tation options. There is also an in
credible shortage of on-campus 
parking, so driving to campus is 
difficult. Harsh winters make walk
ing and biking to campus nearly 
impossible at times; the only option 
left is riding PAT busses, which is 
too expensive to be feasible.
Undergrads are not the only ones 
effected by this transportation 
stranglehold. Graduate students 
who live in Oakland and Squirrel, 
Hill face the same problems.
The University does offer limited 
transportation to all off-campus 
residents; Escort Service will give 
students a ride home at night. How
ever, students can only get a ride at 
night, and they cannot get a ride to 
campus unless they are picked up 
at off-campus University housing, 
such as Cathedral Mansions. This 
isnt enough for students who must 
constantly walk long distances to 
campus early in the morning when 
itis bitterly cold. In addition, this is 
an inconvenient and inefficient so
lution for busy students.
The University must quickly de
cide on a plan to help these stu
dents with their transportation 
problems. CMU must either subsi
dize monthly passes for students in 
Oakland and Squirrel Hill, or the 
school should challenge PATs pre
posterous monopoly and offer its 
own shuttle thatruns along Forbes.
Students deserve 
minimum wage raise
$4.25. That number is an all-toofamiliar number to many students 
who have on-campus jobs at 
Carnegie Mellon. This number is 
CMUs minimum hourly wage, and 
it is simply too low.
CMUs minimum wage is the same 
minimum set across the United 
States. However, it is not compa
rable to minimums set at other lead
ing universities. MIT currently sus
tains a $6.75 minimum, and plans 
to increase it to $7.25 this June, as 
the MIT administration feels that 
many students cant meet their ex
pected financial aid earnings and 
cant pay for bills.
At Yale University, the overall 
minimum wage is $5.90, unless you 
work in the dining system, in which 
you can earn union wages of $8.74 
per hour.
Granted, these schools are located 
in distinctly different economies 
than that of Pittsburgh, but the 
local Pittsburgh economyis notnecessarily reflected in the inflated 
and sometimes unreasonable prices 
for convenience goods and meals 
on-campus; the average price of an 
on-campus lunch is around $5.00.
For many students, their campus 
job is a lone source of income to get 
them through the school year; it is 
the means to buy books, supplies 
and food and to pay bills. For oth
ers, campus jobs are part of a finan
cial aid agreement. Very often, stu
dents must work much more than
.: jiuo; 
fiNA-Y Attir...
Up's see, ib TfJ
loWH jabse. papo h
Iranm :TvAhifva i!i'ut Vl&ET W^ So LWfWl I Avi 6 goYtuHol. jgj|
Letters to the Editor
Scarce student 
types examined
Letter to 
the Editor
the average ten hours per week to 
fulfill their financial aid award  
lost time which can severely in
fringe on studies.
But whatever the case, the vital 
money that students work for and 
need to get through college just 
isnt enough.
While it is true that many cam
pus employers have a pay-raise 
schedule in the area of $.25 per 
semester, the wages for many jobs 
simply do not reflect the effort or 
stress connected with that job. For 
instance, a student clerk, whose 
prime responsibility is filing phone 
messages can often receive the same 
pay as an intern in another depart
ment.
While some students opt to find a 
better-paying job off-campus, this 
is an infeasible option for the ma
jority of students. With busy sched
ules, its hard to find an off-campus 
job that has the relative scheduling 
flexibility that on-campus jobs tend 
to have. Also, the costs of transpor
tation to and from an off-campus 
job can easily offset any additional 
amount that a student may make.
The administration should make 
serious efforts to solicit student 
opinions about their realistic earn
ing expectations and their finan
cial needs. There is a very real need 
for an increase in the CMU mini
mum wage, and we look to the ad
ministration to see an increase 
through.
Editor: & n
Question: If Jason 
Ermer and Jon Orris 
were to be magically 
transformed into ani
mals with the wave of a 
wand, what would they 
end up reappearing as, I wonder?
Answer: Spotted owls who happen to 
have highly marketable skills in C/C++.
Of course, I know neither Ermer nor 
Orris personally and do not wish to belittle 
them as individuals. However, I cannot 
avoid noticing the way in which both col
umnists evince an implicit sense of insecu
rity about their status in the human foodchain [Writer examines socially handi
capped, 2/5/96 and Proposals allow in
creased security, 2/12/95, respectively].
After categorizing CMU students as ei
ther technical or non-technical and social 
or asocial, Ermer had me chuckling over 
his description of the fedora-wearing, 
walking-stick-toting, cape-draped, JeanLuc-worshipping, Magic-card-playing 
among us. This subset of the student popu
lation does not merely exhibit distasteful 
levels of personal hygiene and wear cer
tain garments and accessories identifying 
them as members of a minority; they are 
extremely proud of their freakishness. It 
is this very extraoverted introvertedness 
which is so troubling for the author. Malodor aside, what has really gotten Jason 
Ermer so worked up as to bestow his 
readers with this episode in his forthcom
ing Loser Watchers Handbook?
The answer, I suspect, lies in the univer
sal habit of excluding those who are mys
terious, bizarre, or foreign for the very fact 
that they are just that  mysterious, 
bizarre, or foreign, even downright queer. 
This type of reaction to others forms the 
basis for a slew of social infirmities: any
where from racism and sexism to xeno
phobia and homophobia.
If you perceive your own superiority to 
be threatened, what do you do? You lash 
out on others. And you conform to the 
majoritys standards with even greater 
passion. Because your desire to make it to 
the top  and stay put  is so great, you 
become willing to lead a life of robot - like 
devotion to the same values no one ever 
seems to put into question.
As a young child you learn to stay in line 
and keep your hands to yourself, so that 
Teacher will give you a cookie for being so 
good. The peer pressure thing runs ram
pant on pubescent cheerleading and foot
ball teams. If you just learn how to put on 
the right makeup and wear a short skirt, 
or conversely, if you learn how to be macho 
and how to score, then youre guaran
teed to be a success amongyour peers. As 
long as you try your hardest to play by the 
rules, you gain freedom from the ridicule 
of not fitting in. No longer will people 
accuse you of belonging to a fringe group, 
you ... you uncool person.
If you think these petty rules change in 
adulthood, then request a reality check at 
the next Career Fair. Beloved CMU stu
dents, Orris intones, Think about all the
studio, and in front of a computer. Think 
about the times when youve had to go 
without sleep, sometimes several days 
in a row, to keep up. Thats right, we 
learn the chants by heart and we prac
tice punting in insanely cold tempera
tures, anxiously awaiting our chance to 
outshine others during the real game of 
life. As college graduates, the payback 
for this diligent practice, in Orris words, 
is the ability to find a good job and 
command a high salary right out of 
school.
Whew, what a relief.! I had the high
est eagle jump, I set a record for inter
ceptions. They liked my performance 
during the interview. I got the job. Im on 
the road to success! At last, somebody 
will deem me worthy of love. Hopefully 
someone will find me more lovable as 
well. Now that I have money, I can 
actually enjoy life, and nobody  hun
gry, illiterate, foreigner, dying, or lazy 
 is going to take it away from me. I 
alone am entitled to enjoy the fruits of 
my labor.
And why not let Orris and the rest of 
the technocratic elite keep their hardearned money? I personally see no need 
to deduct unreasonable amounts from 
their monthly paycheck in the form of 
income taxes. I would find it more satis
fying to see their dollars sucked away as 
a result of exorbitant taxes on every 
conspicuously consumable item under 
the sun: from cellular phones, to pin
striped suits, to BMWs, and the list goes 
on and on and on. Albeit mine is an 
idealistic solution, but how fitting for 
people to become the slave drivers, after 
having served their own sentence as 
slave to consumerist society.
Christy Callahan
Junior
English
Escort exhibits 
lack of quality
to arrive, and that he will then enjoy a 
scenic ride around Pittsburgh before he 
gets home. I have waited for more than 
an hour for a van to arrive followed by an 
hour ride home. This means, he will 
discover, that he cannot make any plans 
about getting home at a specific time, 
that he cannot plan on dinner with his 
family, in fact, that he cannot make any 
specific plans for the evening because he 
will have no idea just how long his ride 
home will take. In addition, it would 
appear that Dean Murphy is unaware of 
the escort vans schedule, or perhaps he 
is unaware that in December Pittsburgh 
gets dark at 5 pm. Obviously, Murphy 
has never looked out the window at 4:30 
trying to decide whether to walk home 
or to stay and finish that last thing and 
then wait for an hour and a half for the 
escort van to officially start running. 
Perhaps if Murphy were living on a 
graduate students salary and had to 
ride the Escort home if he were going 
home late, he would be more sympa
thetic about a Squirrel Hill shuttle.
David Redish 
PhD student 
CS
Cheating poses 
student problem
Letter to 
the Editor
Utttn to th Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I was deeply sad
dened to see the re
port that the discus
sions between CMU 
and PAT have finally 
broken down. Last 
year, when we were able to ride the Pitt 
shuttles, there was at least a regular 
way to travel home in the cold, the snow, 
the rain, or the dark. Now there is no 
option except for the escort van. If the 
estimate really did exceed $500,000 per 
year, then CMU should have returned to 
the fallback plan that was put forward 
when the Pitt shuttles vanished: a CMUrun Squirrel Hill shuttle with a regular 
route and a regular schedule.
I was, however, even more troubled by 
Dean Murphys comments about the es
cort van. The escort van is a valiant 
effort run by some wonderful people, but 
it is being asked to do too much. Obvi
ously, Dean Murphy has never tried to 
call escort for a ride home between 
6:30pm and midnight. He would find 
that the van will take from fiteen minlong hours spent in a lab, a library, a utes (if hes lucky) to an hour (if hes not)
Editor:
I am pleased that 
the Tartan covered 
James Hoburgs ECE 
seminar Cheating at 
CMU: A Case Study.
The administration 
has really let us all down, not just Pro
fessor Hoburg, not just the T.A., not just 
the hard-working students in the class 
who were earning their grades. All of 
us.
I think the evidence is clear that the 
student cheated. Its obvious that 
Hoburg and his T.A. feel that way. The 
first disciplinary committee also agreed 
the student cheated. Even if he didnt 
cheat, he did something so stupid that 
caused enough doubt in his credibility 
that he should have been considered a 
cheater. Still, a second disciplinary com
mittee, thought there are motivations 
other than cheating for marking over 
the graders pen and claiming the mark 
is his answer. What those motivations 
are was not made clear, but the admin
istration cleared him of all charges.
I am appalled by the administrations 
lack of integrity and willingness to forgo 
that which is right for what is easy. 
There are many students that work hard 
with great integrity to earn their grades. 
Its bad enough for these same students 
when cheating is discovered but insuffi
cient evidence prevents acting on it. But 
for these cases, its not worth giving up 
the basic tenet that were all innocent 
evidence that he altered the exam afterthe-fact. Theres no reason not to make 
him responsible.
Richard Voyles 
Graduate Student 
Robotics
Consumer freedom lost in regulation mess
James Stepanek
Last year I wrote 
a column on the 
subject of freedom. 
The central con
cept was that it 
was not merely 
being able to do what you want to do, it is the ability to do things 
for which you can be responsible. Responsibility is the core 
issue in freedom. The core guarantee of freedom, however, is 
the free market.
The free market is a very simple thing which allows huge 
complexities in its final results. It is about people making 
voluntary deals with each other. Say I have some money, and 
I want some corn. A farmer has some com and wants some 
money. He can easily sell me some com. Both of us have 
benefitted from this deal. He got what he wanted. As did I. 
Both of us have been allowed to take advantage of the fruits of 
our labor in a way that we wanted.
Why is this about freedom? Because we made all the choices 
involved, and did so in a responsible manner. I didnt try to rob
him, and he didnt try to rip me off. We both made the deal of 
our own accord. Both of us can now go on from this and 
accomplish other things with the proceeds of the transaction. , 
He can invest in seed or equipment, or go to a movie. I can eat 
the corn, give it to friends, or sell it to someone else. Options 
abound.
In our current world of taxes, price supports, subsidies, 
tariffs, minimum wage laws, and regulation, we rarely get to 
glimpse a free market. With the government having a hand in 
so many things, its hard to have a transaction be quite so 
simple.
Let me address all these intrusions by the government into 
the free market, and by extension into our freedom. The first 
is the most obvious: taxes.
Our tax system is a horrifying mess. It has more to do with 
capital redistribution in the name of fairness than income 
collection. People pay a percentage of their income that is 
based on a scale which nails those who are more productive 
harder. One thats not even in proportion to their productivity.
Please see REGULATION, page 8

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 19967
Loss of Pirates bolsters Pittsburgh Pessimism
Jason Togyer
I sure hope Kevin McClatchy 
kept the receipt.
McClatchy is the new headcheese-in-charge of the Pitts
burgh Pirates. I suppose hes no
ticed that the Pirates arent a 
particularly wise investment.
To begin with, major league 
baseball is in trouble  it hasnt 
recovered from the black eye it 
received during last years strike. 
Sports live and die by television 
revenue; Pittsburgh is a small 
TV market, with no cable 
superstations to shore it up. And 
McClatchy may be the heir to a 
newspaper fortune, but lets see 
how deep his pockets are next to 
George Steinbrenners.
Worst of all, hes running up 
against the dreaded Pittsburgh 
Pessimism. Let the Pirates 
leave, says a Pittsburgh Pessi
mist. I cant afford to watch those
rich bums anyway. Who needs 
them, the commies?
Then, he or she drops the bomb
shell: Besides, people around 
here had better wise up  Pitts
burgh is just too small to support 
a baseball team. And wingo! Your 
Buccos shuffle off to Buffalo, or 
Charlotte, or wherever else the 
locals have ready cash.
(Yes, they are your Buccosol 
Kev-bo is into CMU for a cool 
million or two.)
The most potent thing about 
Pittsburgh Pessimism is that its 
self-fulfilling. When you think 
small, you are small. People here 
are so used to watching things 
that theyve grown fond of leave. 
First the steel mills left, then 
Gulf Oil, then Dennis Miller and 
maybe 300,000 other people be
tween 1980 and 1990.
Everybody asks me where Im 
planning to go after I graduate. I 
say, Probably home, although I 
may do a few donuts on the Cut 
before I leave. They cant believe 
it. Get the hell out of Pittsburgh. 
Theres no future here, they say.
Thats the old Pittsburgh Pes
simism at work; its so contagious, 
it even spreads to people who 
arent from here, and therell be a 
nationwide epidemic if the Pi
rates move out. Pittsburgh will 
be installed as a permanent 
former. The former Steel City. 
The former corporate headquar
ters. And the former home of 
the Pirates. Lets face it, besides 
a bridge, what is Brooklyn re
membered for other than losing 
the Dodgers?
The number one thing needed 
to keep the Pirates in town is a 
stadium. At the same time, Pitts
burgh needs a bigger convention 
center and more hotel space. And 
while the Lazarus department 
store chain wants a new store 
downtown, a mall wouldnt hurt 
either. Mayor Tom Murphy is 
currently ransacking the couch 
in his office, looking for spare 
change to build one of those. The 
question is, why not build all four, 
and let the developers pick up the 
tab? All the city needs to do is 
coordinate the planning of an en
tire Pirates complex, a la Camden 
Yards in Baltimore.
Put a convention center and 
hotel together with a shopping 
mall and a Lazarus store. Set 
them around your baseball park 
and add mass transit to make the 
game part of a bigger package. 
Conventioneers stay in. the hotel, 
shop downstairs, quaff a beer, 
and walk across the street to the 
ballpark.
Theres even precedent for that 
kind of one-stop center right here 
in town: Station Square has ev
erything but the stadium, and 
thats only a short boat ride away.
And frankly, I dont see why 
the Pittsburgh Pirates need to 
stay within the city limits.
If the city cant play ball, Im 
sure there are a number of Mon 
Valley mill towns that would s tep 
up to the plate.
Plunk the Pirates down next to 
the Sandcastle water park in 
Homestead, one-time home of the 
Negro Leagues Grays. Satchel 
Paige Field has a nice ring to it, 
dont you think? Of course, this 
would require vision from our 
elected officials, some of whom 
are carriers of Pittsburgh Pessi
mism. I would remind them that 
a former Pitt chancellor was 
asked why his university spent 
so much time and money on foot
ball when some academic areas 
were suffering.
Name another department in 
this university that lands our 
name in every Sunday newspa
per in the country, every week
end during the fall, he replied.
No matter how famous other 
things in Pittsburgh become  
the Pitt medical center, CMUs 
Robotics Institute, Neil ODonnell 
trade rumors  only one of the 
regions institutions is going to 
splash the citys name around 
the world several times a week. 
Dem Bucs. A spiffy new ballpark 
and adjoining development are 
the best long-term antidotes to 
Pittsburgh Pessimism that 
money can buy.
And some good starting pitch
ers wouldnt hurt, either.
English major Jason Togyer is 
a Pittsburgh native and longtime 
Pirate fan who never threw flash
light batteries at Dave Parker.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Meltons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Ed.-in-Chief.. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Managing Ed. Andrew McDermott
Business Manager........Amit Kar
Acting News Co-Ed. Matthew Solitro
News Co-Ed......Becky A.Cowser
Forum Editor..............John Biggs
Sports Editor...........Paul Boothe
Features Editor.............Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Diversions Editor.........Ena Khan
Acting Calendar Ed.Kenneth Flagg 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
..............................Jennifer Zleserl
Dossier Lit. Ed.........Kevin Meehan
Art Editor...........Gabrien Symons
Photo Editor.....Jason Siegendorf
Production Mgr.Elizabeth Neuman 
Advertising Manager Chintan Shah
Systems Manager...........1-Ping LI
Acting Copy Mgr... Winter Mason 
Asst. Diversions Ed.... Jay Mlolla 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Personnel Mgr............Eric Salzman
Asst. Production Mgr. . Jennifer Li
Contributing Editors 
Francine Gemperle, Shannon 
Gibney, Lauren Heinz, Kathy Liu
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovltz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Darren Chlappetta
Staffwriters 
Rahul Aggarwal, Amber Benezra, 
Yosef Birnbolm, Chris Cannon, 
SteveCharnoubi, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil 
Donnely, Jason Ermer, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, Adam 
Klivans, David Koran, Wladimir 
Labeikovsky, Alex Lewin, April C. 
Moate, Angela Molloy, Dizzy 
Murphy, Suzanne Paddock, Sudhlr 
Reddy, Rick Rlkoski, Dan 
Rosenberg, Rick Simmons, James 
Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, Jason 
Togyer, Bill Vandermark, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Andrew Wang, Adam 
Vincent, Susan Watson, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Art
Mark Eggert, Liz Morgan, Ryan 
Rhoads
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hlromi 
Hasegawa, Shawn C. Knight, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger
Photo
Jaroslav Delapedraja, Josh Free
man, Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Ellas Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelli, Mimi 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Hel
ena McGahagan, Victor Ortega, 
Catherine Senderling, M. J. Wil
son, Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Diana Bartolotta, Alex Cheng, John 
Defazlo, Annemarie Devine, Ryan 
Donovan, F. Colt Foutz, Alvin Gavin, 
Alexandra Grundeman, Will 
Isenhour, Elizabeth Kanabe, Anukul 
Kapoor, Hanjay Kim, Diana Lalor, 
Ian Loew, Dizzy Murphy, Kenneth 
Namkung, Tracey Odell, Derek 
Robinson, RonakSinghal, Zulekha 
Spencer, Minh Tran, Julee White
The Tartan is llie student newspaper of Camegle Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students 
during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of tne University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
Individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. lottors to tho Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter Intended for publication must be signed and Include tho writers address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request The Tartan requests that letters be no longer 
than 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves tho right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright  1996 by The Tartan. The Tartan 
editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy It deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: 412/268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegle Mellon Univer
sity/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890Funded in part by your Activities Fee. ____
A! rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN *: 0890-3107.
Tho Tartan is a member of the Associated AIIV
Press. 
Internet Act reduces freedom, rises ire of columnist
Jon Orris
The information superhighway is ... a 
revolution that in years to come will tran
scend newspapers, radio, and television as 
an information source. Therefore, I think 
this is the time to put some restrictions or 
guidelines on it.  Senator James Exon 
'(D., Nebraska)
Mr. Exon got his wish. On February 8th, 
President Clinton signed into law the Tele
communications Act of 1996. Contained 
within this bill is the Exon Amendment, 
;the so called Communications Decency 
[Act. This obscene amendment will im
pose a similar, if not worse, level of censor
ship on the Internet than currently exists 
in broadcast medium. It imposes harsh 
fines and possible jail terms on those that 
allow persons under 18 to access inde
cent material. Also, by amending the in
famous Comstock Act to refer to the 
Internet, it is possible that information on 
abortion will also be prohibited.
The bill also mandates that all new 
televisions be constructed with a V-chip, 
so that offensive programming can be au
tomatically screened out. They already 
have this in Canada, and the government 
there has taken to using its capabilities to 
block selected broadcasts from the United 
States, without the consent of its citizens. 
The possibility that this could happen here 
is chilling.
There is a general feeling of optimism 
that this amendment will be easily struck 
;down in the courts. I would ask those who 
;are optimistic, What facts of reality lead 
;you to this conclusion? Decades of regula
tion and case law prove you wrong.
Look at the state of affairs on the Internet 
and for bulletin board providers presently. 
Theres the famous Amateur Action case, 
where a postal worker in Tennessee joined 
the Amateur Action bulletin board of his 
own free will, downloaded something that 
he found offensive, and notified the au
thorities. Though based in California, the
couple that ran it were convicted in Ten
nessee, sent to prison, and had millions in 
assets stolen under civil forfeiture. This 
case is one of the factors in the decision of 
CMU to ban the. erotic binaries groups.
Look at the broadcast media. The Su
preme Court already defines obscenity 
in a vague, non-objective way, which boils 
down to some sort of community stan
dards judgment in practice. The rules for 
indecency are even worse. Indecent 
speech is pro
tected by the 
First Amend
ment, but in the 
case of broad
cast media, the 
FCC is given 
broad discre
tionary powers 
to regulate con
tent. This is en
forced with 
fines, as well as 
the fact that 
broadcasters 
continually re
new their li
censes; in ef
fect, obtain the 
governments 
continued sanc
tion to use their 
own property.
Faced with the 
possibility of 
random bu
reaucrats seizingtheir prop
erty and de
stroying their 
life, broadcasters often take the attitude 
of better safe than sorry, refusing to 
broadcast anything that might bring down 
the wrath of the FCC. It doesnt even stop 
with indecency. It wasnt that long ago 
that the Fairness Doctrine was in place, 
which had the effect of stifling a great deal 
of speech opposed to the government. All 
of this , started out back in the thirties, 
when the airwaves were deemed public 
property, that should be controlled for 
the public good. Note that the same sort
of language is being bandied about in 
discussions on regulating the Internet.
As to the abortion prohibition in the bill, 
the government says that the prohibition 
is probably unconstitutional, and wont be 
enforced. This fails to reassure me. As far 
as I know, a constitutional amendment to 
ban abortion is still, sadly, part of the 
Republican platform. Pat Buchannan, who 
is doing dismayingly well in the Republi
can primaries, has well known views on
abortion, and they arent favorable. It 
wouldnt surprise me in the least to see 
him enforce the law if he became presi
dent. In 1987, Buchanan urged President 
Reagan to get the FCC to start yanking 
licenses of broadcasters who were show
ing things he disagreed with. Do you think 
hell behave any differently in regards to 
the Internet, especially on a topic like 
abortion?
Although I am pessimistic about this 
bill, it still can be and must be struck
down. Most of the talk in opposition to the 
CDA has been about its impracticality, 
that its a technical impossibility to imple
ment. While true, this is the wrong basis 
for opposing it. Those wishing to oppose it 
must clearly stand up for the moral issues 
involved. The owners of the information 
media, be it radio and television stations, 
or Internet providers, have sole rights to 
decide what content will and will not be 
offered. They have the right to decide 
whether to carry only family sen
sitive programming, to block cer
tain newsgroups and web sites, or 
to carry anything under the sun. 
Any government regulation that 
compels them to do so is a gross 
violation of their rights. It is on 
the grounds that censorship is a 
violation of individual rights that 
the CDA and all other such regu
lations must be opposed.
To those who actually favor 
the CDA, as well as restrictions 
on broadcast media, I have little 
more to say than Get the hell 
out of the way. Get this 
through your skulls: The radio 
stations dont belong to you, 
the television stations dont be
long to you, and the Internet 
doesnt belong to you. You did 
not work to create them, you 
dont own them, and you have 
no right whatsoever to enforce 
your views at gun point on those 
that do.
Your self righteous presump
tion that you have the right to 
compel your fellow human beKenneth Namkung/Tartan Artist ngS to adhere to your irrational standards, that you have the right to 
seize the property of the broadcasters and 
grant them the use of it at your discretion, 
has no place here in this country.
If you dont want your children to see 
what may offend you, change the channel, 
buy SurfWatch or turn the damn ma
chine off. If you want to live in some 
bubble, do so, but get out of the way of 
those of us who want to live on earth.
Jon Orris a fifth year physics major.
The future will be a world 
of beautiful things that are 
shiny and harmless. This is 
all thanks to the Communi
cations Decency Act. We 
asked the student body: 
What do you think of the 
Act and its implications.?
Anne Castle 
Senior 
Art
I belive that people should 
look at what they want to look at 
as long as theyre paying for it.
Damien Bierman 
Junior
Cognitive Science
Its wrong, but it really comes 
down to a matter of regulation 
and I dont think theyll be able 
to regulate it at all. The people 
who wrote the bill dont know 
how to police the internet.
Elizabeth Zambelli
Senior
Art
Nothing on the internet 
should be censored.
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Chris Miller
Junior
English
I dont like it at all. Its an
other opportunity for monopoly.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996
Signs show end of world draws nigh
Douglas Howe
The world is surely coming to 
an end. Ive just been informed 
that John Denver was arrested. 
DUI.
He was pulled over in Colo
rado, for driving ______________
faster than the 
speed of light.
The cop found 
John in a state of 
Rocky Mountain 
High.
A breathalizer 
test showed that 
he was lit up like 
a Christmas tree. John was tossed 
in a cell, without Grandmas 
Feather Bed. My complete moral 
belief system has been knocked 
out of kilter. The Easter Bunny 
and Santa were bad enough, but 
finding out that John Denver isnt 
who I thought he was is too much 
for me. Apparently, as much as I 
wanted to believe otherwise, the 
world has truly gone to hell.
There are so many things that 
make our generation what it is. 
And as much as the Yuppies and 
Baby Boomers want to consider 
us evil, there are, or were, some 
redeeming qualities that we had. 
One of them was John. He may 
not have been Prince (currently 
known as Squiggly Man), Ma
donna, or Michael, but no matter 
what, we could always depend on 
him being there, to guide us and 
watch over us. Why do you think 
he was in Oh God! ? He may not 
have been hip or sexy, but if there 
was one episode of the Muppet 
Show we all remember, it was the 
one that he was on. Some would 
say the episode that Superman 
came on was the most exciting, 
but deep down, they too would 
admit John was the best. He kinda 
looked like Kermit, I think. We 
trusted him. And no one worked 
better with those hand puppets 
than him. He was our last hope. 
Though not much was ever really 
said about John in the news, you 
always knew where he was and 
what he was doing. He was up in 
the mountains of Colorado, sit
ting by the fire, sipping hot cocoa, 
writing songs about nothing and 
everything. He was sweet, pure, 
honest, and kind. He always 
fought for what was right. I bet 
our generation wouldnt care as 
much about the envirnoment if it 
wasnt for John. He made us want 
to preserve those Country Roads 
that would take us home, to a 
place that we belonged. Even 
West Virginia was made kind of 
groovy by John. Not everyone can 
make West Viriginia cool. But 
John did.
I might have suspended my 
disbelief if I just heard John was 
a bit toasty. Nothing is wrong 
with putting a little mountain 
whiskey in your cocoa to keep it 
fresh. Or even that he was driv
ing. Id trust John to know when 
to say when. He probably wasnt 
driving recklessly, just fast. He
was most likely on the way to a 
peace rally or to a meeting with 
Smokey and the Bear. The fact 
that threw me was that he was 
driving a Porsche. I doubled 
checked the report and it did, in 
fact, say that it was his. It pains 
me to think that the evils of this 
material world have conquered 
even John. And it was red too. Im 
scared folks. I really am.
I started getting frightened 
when Bob Ross died. For those of
"The world is surely coming to an 
end. I've just been informed that 
John Denver was arrested. 
you who dont know Bob, firstly, 
you should be punished, but then 
Id tell you that he was the white 
dude on cable with the afro who 
painted landscapes and talked 
softly. Ive yet to meet anyone 
who actually painted with Bob, 
but that really wasnt the point. 
People watched just to spend time 
with Bob. He was one of a kind. I 
used to tape his show and then, 
whenever I would get in a bad 
mood, I would pop it in and watch. 
Bob made life better. He made 
me more confident and, in so 
many words, let me know every
thing was all right. He passed 
away last year, and I have no 
doubt that he is still painting 
puffy, white clouds up in heaven.
Then that figure skating thing 
happened. Tanya Hardings body
guard clubbed the living daylights 
out of the big-teeth chick and she 
almost couldnt go to the Olym
pics. The fact that it happened 
didnt bother me as much as the 
fact that it seemed to bother ev
eryone else. For weeks and weeks, 
all anyone talked about was fig
ure skating. Thats when things 
got really frightening. I suppose 
figure skatinghas its place, along 
with bingo and tractor pulls, but 
to be concerned was way too much. 
Folks, its figure skating. Scott 
Hamel does it, remember? Its 
the worst job in the world to have. 
You start training when youre 
three. You wake up every morn
ing at five to practice for hours on 
end before school. Then after 
school you go back to practice. If 
you are lucky and have that one 
in a million chance of actually 
getting anywhere with it, you 
spend your time doing flips to 
cheesy music until you make it to 
the Olympics, where someone 
from an Eastern Bloc country is 
going to win anyway. Then, youre 
a professional. No second chance 
at a medal. Then whats your 
fate? The Ice Capades. Thats it. 
You get to skate the rest of your 
career with Disney characters or 
do specials on Saturday night TV 
when football season is over.
The political thing has always 
given me the jitters too, even when 
I considered myself very active. 
For a while, I was a gung-ho Re
publican. Mainly because my 
grandmother was, and she brain
washed me as a child. She used to 
take me to the local Republican
headquarters in Bucks Country, 
PA, and let me listen in on the 
conversations about the evils of 
the democratic party and what 
cruel and unusual things should 
be done to them involving twine 
and farm animals. Kids are so 
easily influenced. I used to get 
into heated debates with people 
over politics, then I came to my 
senses and realized how idiotic 
that was. The bums in Washing
ton arent helping or changing
_____________ anything. Why
should/waste my 
time?
I think people 
who devote them
selves to one thing 
too seriously need
______________ to be careful, or
they might end up 
on a ranch in 
Waco, Texas, saying, David, my 
Lord and Savior, should I light 
the little boys or girls on fire first? 
Politicians are the same way. Too 
serious.
Thats why Im so glad Sonny 
Bono and Gopher from The Love 
Boat are in Congress. They cant 
take themselves too seriously, be
cause nobody else is going to. But 
Clinton and Dole and Newt?
Too frigid. You want to know 
my vote for president this No
vember? O.J. Without a doubt. 
Simpson would make a great 
president. Hes a hero, both ath
letically and judicially. He could 
do so much for the government. 
He knows how to pick a team that 
will fight to the end and convince 
people of anything. Johnnie 
Cochrin and Robert Shapiro 
would be wonderful Cabinet 
members. In a matter of weeks, 
they could convince everybody we 
owe money to that it wasnt us 
who borrowed it. The gloves didnt 
fit. It must have been Canada. 
And poof! The deficit problem is 
gone. No one would stand in his 
way. No political opposition. The 
Congressmen would just say, 
Youre gonna vote against the 
bill? But hell kill you! Legisla
tion would pass like wildfire. And 
he already knows how to golf. 
And how cool would it be to have 
a president that was in all three 
Naked Gun movies? Hes got my 
vote.
I always ask people what rea
son they have for voting for a 
particular candidate. Most people 
really dont know. They usually 
vote either party line or looks 
line. Thats how JFK won. But 
my roommate gave me the best 
answer.
He told me a story that when he 
was just a kid, about nine, he 
didnt want Reagan to win the 
reelection because he was afraid 
of nuclear weapons, and he 
thought Reagan was likely to use 
them. The reason he was scared 
of nuclear weapons?
He thought the bomb would be 
dropped before hed have a chance 
to have sex.
Thats what I call thinking with 
your head. Maybe there is still 
hope for us all.
Doug hates figure skating due 
to a tramatic past experience in 
Cub Scouts.
Managing the elements of change
Triple Point Technology, Inc., a cutting-cdge software developer 
for the commodities trading industry, will be conducting oncampus interviews for full time positions on Wednesday, Feb. 28. 
Interested candidates will possess a degree in computer science 
and an interest in the financial industry. This challenging career 
opportunity offers a competitive compensation package along 
with a unique opportunity to gain valuable experience. If you are 
unable to meet with us. forward your resume to: Triple Point 
Technology, 71 Rowayton Ave., Rowayton, CT 06853.
Fax: 203-831-4106. E-mail: jobs@tpt.com
TRIPLE POINT
Regulation 
inhibits
REGULATION, from page 6
A flat tax would tax 
people in proportion to what 
they made, which we 
certainly dont have.
We also have price supports 
and subsidies. Price supports 
are possibly the dumbest idea 
I have ever heard. My tax 
dollars are being used to en
able people to charge me more 
for food. Subsidies are about 
the same. The government 
uses tax dollars to prop up 
industries which couldnt sur
vive without help. Mind you, 
the beneficiaries are usually 
chosen more as a result of 
lobbying power than any ra
tional concern. The ways in 
which the market is violated 
by these travesties is more 
than self-evident.
Tariffs and trade barriers 
are another interesting viola
tion of the market. We, to our 
dismay, get to listen to Pat 
Buchanan extolling the vir
tues of protectionism. Protec
tionists love to explain how it 
will create jobs and prevent 
businesses from leaving. 
What it really does is protect 
businesses which are non
competitive and create jobs 
by making consumers pay 
more for things. Lets face the 
simple fact: protectionism is 
simply a subsidy on indus
tries which cant compete in a 
global free market. Its not an 
obvious government subsidy, 
but a subsidy paid for with 
the increased price of goods.
I can bet many of you have 
been waiting to see what my 
beef with minimum wage laws 
is. More money to each worker 
means less workers. Mini
mum wage laws upset the 
natural balance of supply and 
demand. There used to be 
many low paying jobs which 
simply have vanished with in
creasing minimum wage. You 
can say its good that those 
underpaid workers no longer 
have to struggle, but in all 
truth those jobs went to kids 
who worked for extra money. 
Now we come to the hidden 
means by which the free mar
ket is violated by the regula
tion. The total cost of regula
tion imposed on the economy 
is in the hundreds of billions. 
You dont even get a choice in 
the matter. The government 
is too busy trying to protect 
you from yourself. That, plain 
and simple, is not freedom.
Stepanek is a PhD in MSE.
Literacy spells trouble
siM)eIwAsuasi
Derek Robinson
eople dont 
speak good En
glish any
more. It dont 
matter. Or 
does it? If it 
doesntmatter, 
why would the 
National Com
mission on Ex
cellence in Education think that 
our schools are being drowned by 
a rising tide of mediocrity? Why 
do some people fear the fact that 
American students generally 
rank behind other nations on 
placement tests? Maybe our edu
cational secretary had it wrong 
when he said that American stu
dents are spending too much 
time watching mind-numbing 
television.
Or maybe the statistics are 
wrong? Maybe the nations ver
bal SAT score didnt drop by 50 
points in the last 35 years. Maybe 
the University of California was 
mistaken when they released the 
fact that 40-60% of their students 
had to take remedial English. Or 
maybe Wisconsins best schools 
for journalism dont reject 40% of 
their applicants because of spell
ing.
But the point is, the average 
persons ability to use the En
glish language is declining. Ten 
states have shown decreases in 
state wide reading-levels. None 
showed improvement. The typi
cal view of literacy is that of read
ing and writing; but the more 
modem view of literacy extends 
to that of cultural literacy, or 
competent knowledge of ones 
culture.
Why is this happening? Televi
sion isnt the only cause, but it 
can be considered a major one. 
Electronic media caters to the 
lowest denominator, and people 
who view it begin to assume that 
viewpoint as well. The fact is that' 
these forms of mass media tend 
to be geared more for presenta-1 
tion, and less for intellectual sub] 
stance.
Obviously, no one wants this to 
happen, right? Maybe not. Uni
versities leave students and fac
ulty alike little academic free
dom. Professors themselves seem 
to push more and more special
ization in ones field (partly be
cause of their gratuitous researcji 
and development money), anrl 
less generalization.
What should be done theii? 
More concentration is needed on 
the analytical process of writing. 
A firmer knowledge of our cul
ture is needed as well. Students 
who possess a better grasp of the 
language will be more able to 
express complex ideas, without 
being overly-specialized in a 
single field. The breakdown of 
our language will eventually; 
equate to the breakdown of 
thought. The preservation of our 
society depends on the preserva
tion of our language.
DerekRobinsonis anundecided 
Freshman in H&SS.He welcomes 
any responsible replies.
great scores...
GR.....
great skills...
Kaplan students get the most 
complete test preparation materials 
available including computer-analyzed 
practice tests, home-study materials, 
books, software, and a training library. 
And at Kaplan, we've got experienced 
teachers who really care.
Kaplan helps you focus your 
GRE studies and build your 
confidence so you can get a 
higher score.
Call 1 -800-KAP-TEST
get a higher score
KAPLAN
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

D&fiv-erinj}' The Parked Pizza/
Oakland/Shadyside 
443 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
I One 16" Extra 
I Large One Topping
1 
I 
I
T------------------T
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
Now hiring delivery people.682-7272
PAPAWe accept Visa/Mastercard
$7
95
| Additional toppings $1.50 each 
. Not valid with any other coupon 
I Valid only at participating stores$11
98
Additional toppings $1.25 on each 
pizza Not valid with any other 
coupon. Valid only at participating
One 14" Large 
One Topping
h
98
+ Tax
(Mon. - Hiurj. 1 lam-4pm, 9pnvclose) 
Additional toppings $1.25 each 
Not valid with any other
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An 
Order of Breadsticks
99
+ Tax
Additional toppings $1.25 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
stores Valid only at participating stores |
~DeadlineFebruary2
Writer contact: Kevin Meehan, [km5v] 
Artist, Designer contacts: Jennifer Zieserl, [jz25] 
Brockett Horne, [gh27]
Theirs. Ours.
At Oracle, we see the development of information software on a larger scale: Our technology is changing the way human knowledge is gathered, 
stored, retrieved and utilized. If you see yourself working with this decade's top graduates, creating products that run on over 100 different machines, 
providing unified computing resources to over 25,000 customers in 93 countries, join us. With record sales of $3 billion and nearly 50% growth in 
the last year alone, were now hiring over 100 of the best of the Class of '96. If you have a BS/MS in CS, Math-CS, Information Networking, Technical 
Writing, Computer Engineering or Software Engineering, you could become an Oracle Software Developer, Consultant or Product Manager and work
on any number of advanced technologies and products, including:
Digital Library-"Alexandria" Internet Products Object Oriented Databases
Media Objects Object Oriented Development Tools Distributed Computing & Networking
Enterprise Applications Interactive Multimedia Data Security Architecture
Massively Parallel Products Mobile Computing Vertical Applications
Linguistics Based Products Data Warehousing & Mining
Well be interviewing on campus March 5 & 6. Sign up at the Career Center and pick up your copy of Projects at Oracle today. E-mailed resumes strongly encouraged.
w*|[f
Enabling the Information Age
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: jobs@us.oracle.com FAX: 415-506-1073 
For additional information, visit our WEB SITE at: http://www.oracle.com/info/hr/recruiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.

---------------------------------------------------

10- The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996
1 800 CALL ATT always costs less than ByGEEyLEAATLRO
And always gets you the reliable AER3T Network.
Use it whenever you're off campus.
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice'
*EmE
Your True Choice
 For interstate alls. Promotions excluded
I-8OO-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCI. ' C1996 AT&T
Underdog schools seek NCAA upsets
UPSETS, from page 11
Princeton have dominated league 
plsfy' over the last several years. 
Pttfi is the last Ivy League team 
to-make the Final Four, achieving-that feat in 1979 (the same 
Final-Four as Michigan State with 
Magic Johnson and Indiana State 
with Larry Bird).
Although its unlikely that this 
years representative from the 
conference will be able to dupli
cate that feat, they will most likely 
prbVi'de a large scare for a team 
for which they should technically 
be no match.
We traverse the country for our 
next stop, the West Coast Confer
ence, a conference steeped in basketball tradition, featuring 
almni such as Bill Russell (San 
Francisco), John Stockton 
(GoftZaga), and the explosive duo 
o&Hhk Gathers and Bo Kimble 
(Loyola Mary mount).
js year, the conference rep
rsentative could very likely be 
S^Oj^a Clara, led by three-point 
th|gat Steve Nash. This team, 
more known for its players surf
ing penchant, upset Arizona two 
years ago in the tournament and 
could pull another upset this year.
We end our trip in the south at 
the-College of Charleston, where 
the,. Cougars are 20-2 but are 
unfeure if they will get an invite to 
th Big Dance.
They are ineligible for their 
conferences automatic bid since 
they have been a Division One 
team for only seven years but are 
hoping that their two competi
tive losses to Syracuse and Connirticut on the road will prove 
thr Worth to the committee.
Player of the Week: Miles 
Simon of Arizona.
Simon hit a 65-foot threepointer at the buzzer to lead his 
' Wildcats to a three-point vic
tory over the Cincinnati 
Brcats, a top-10 opponent.
Gat of the Week: Miles 
Simon of Arizona.
This Thursday against UCLA, 
Simon had a chance to win the 
ganre for his team with seconds 
left after UCLA was called for a 
technical foul for having too 
many men on the court.
But Simon missed both free 
thfows, Arizona committed a 
foul, and UCLA converted a free 
throw with one second left to 
ke out the one point victory.
(Same of the Week: Tonight 
SiOjie Big East, Georgetown 
jfa&f off against Connecticut. 
.T^etHuskies are seeking to be
come the first Big East team 
ever to go through the entire 
regular league season without 
a blemish on their record. The 
Hoyas, in the midst of a nearly 
impossible end of the season 
schedule, are looking to secure 
the first place spot in the Big 
East 7.
Ronak Singhal is a junior 
ECE major.
CMU Undergrads
' Participate in a 3 session 
''experiment for $18. The 
sessions are spaced over 3 days, 
one per day, and last less than 
an hour. Your task will be to 
learn to achieve goals with a 
computer simulated sugar 
factory. Dates are 3/1/96 - 
3/3/96 and 3/8/96 - 3/1 1/96.
Contact 
gibson+study I @cmu.edu for 
available times and participation 
____________ details.
CAiyCUN a NA8SMJ <7 Mgbts w/M-l
S50-S100DISCOUNT OFF
SELECTED FLIGHTS!
UMITED SPACE! CALL NOW! 
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
RIobCikib^Nttoo  M4cCtanm.Tk cfeno opaaor o Tir 
A Btti Srafca TnreL TV ina araniai Ht Prndbi Ainap ud 
 'Viraa Air Smict An Operas Oprim fa nrcqnrca
Lakers skip All-Star game to head straight toward finals
ALL-STARS, from page 11
according to his Islamic faith, 
had just four points and three 
rebounds in 14 minutes.
Olajuwon says he will lose 
about 10 pounds over the course 
of a month and also states he will 
continue fasting two days a week 
year-round. Hakeem claims he 
plays quicker at a lower weight, 
but he may lose some inside
battles against the Wests best 
centers.
More important than who was 
at the All-Star game might be 
who wasnt. There wasnt an L.A. 
Laker in the game  although 
Magic Johnson helped out at the 
broadcast. None of the Laker 
starters could make the team on 
the fanss ballots or the coachess.
Still, the Lakers are my favor
ites to make the finals because 
they have everything a team 
could want: high scoring in Cedric 
Ceballos, the classic point-guard 
in Nick The Quick Van Excel, a 
defensive-minded power forward 
in Elden Cambell, a consistent 
center in Vlade Divac, and  
perhaps the NBAs most under
rated player in shooting guard 
Eddie Jones.
Jones is a do-everything guy 
and one of only two starters in 
the NBA to have more steals 
than turnovers (the other is NBA 
steal-leader Mookie Blaylock, 
who also wasnt at the All-Star 
game). Off the bench, add Magic 
Johnson, who is not only a living 
legend, but can play any posi
tion, and this team may shock a 
few people.
Exciting and valuable players; 
now thats something everyone 
can agree on.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major. His IM 
basketball team, the 69ers, is giv
ing him the chance to tackle that 
rushing yards record. Everyone 
else knows it isnt football season, 
but dont tell Chris.
They I.X''XON it out for your orthodontist bills.
Coughed it up for your car insurance. 
And forked it over for that cib t&Tlk accident.
Yet they still ITlSlSt you call collect.
Touched by their undying love, you spare them further expense.
vU' dial 1 800 CALL ATT.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 199611
NHL rookies contend for Calder Cup
On Net
by Jessica Strelitz 
and Chris Adukaitis
The ballots for the Calder Cup wont 
go out for a few months yet, but with 
each team over the 50-game mark, the 
rookies in contention are making their 
offensive and defensive marks on the 
National Hockey League.
Eric Daze, at 20 years of age, leads 
the rookie pool in goals scoredat last 
count tallying 26 in 55 games played. 
He is also second in overall scoring with 
40 points. As a left winger with the 
Chicago Blackhawks, one would expect 
that at 64", 200 lbs, he would crash his 
way to the net.
In reality, Daze has been praised for 
his soft hands and ability to controlplay with finesse. His emergence as a 
scorer is a tremendous asset to the 
Hawks, whose only other consistent 
producers are captains Jeremy Roenick 
and Chris Chelios  Chelios being a 
defenseman.
Staying in the West, the Los Angeles 
Kings started out the season sharp re
maining undefeated for seven games, 
with much help from their highly 
praised rookie right-winger Vitali 
Yachmenev. His entrance into the 
league came after a two-season stint 
with the North Bay Centennials, where 
he posted 114 goals and 218 points in 
125 games.
Yachmenev seemed on pace to con
tinue this caliber of play in the NHL, 
posting points in each of the first 20 
games this season. But he has barely 
produced in the 30+ games since, even 
while remaining on the Great Ones 
line. If the Kings want to make the 
playoffs, Yachmenev needs to return to 
his original form.
While a lesser player may have 
dwindled into mediocrity on a team 
like the anemic 11-423 Ottawa ' 
Senators, Daniel 
Alfredsson has 
stepped for
ward as the 
number-one 
rookie scorer 
with 42 points 
in 55 games.
The winger is 
second in goals
scored, with 18 goals on a team 
that rarely finds th back of the 
net. He leads the Senators in scoring, while players Alexei Yashin and 
Alexandre Daigle lag far behind. 
Alfredssons strong, dedicated play gar
nered him a spot on the-All-Star squad 
 the only All-Star rookie this year. 
Maybe the Senators will do him a favor 
and send him elsewhere so that his 
talent will be a little 
more appreciated.
New Jersey Devils 
rookie Peter Syorka 
did not show his full 
potential until mid
way through the sea
son. However, once 
combined with winger 
Bill Guerin, his offen
sive production in
creased significantly. 
Sykora now leads all 
rookies in power-play 
goals with seven.
His continued de
velopment is essen
tial for the defending 
Stanley Cup champi
ons, whose offense 
has otherwise disap
peared this season.
Last weeks Player 
of the Week was 
rookie netminder J ason Muzzatti of tfte
Hartford Whalers, beating out last years 
Rookie of the Year, Peter Forsberg of 
the Colorado Avalanche.
His distinction came after posting a 
30 record for the week, his first NHL 
games ever played. But one has to be 
wary of sparks of brilliance from rookies 
(i.e. Boston Bruins goaltenders Scotty 
Bailey and Blaine Lacher).
This years crop of rookies, in perspec
tive, is pretty thin. There are no Teemu 
Selannes in this crowd. No 150-point 
scorers, MVPs, or 76-goal tallyers. But 
the rookie season doesnt dictate the 
rest of a players career. Eric Lindros, 
last years Hart Trophy recipient, scored 
under 40 points his rookie season in 92 
 93. Last season he tied Jaromir Jagr 
as the number-one scorer in the NHL.
And now, the hockey gurus 
present this years Calder Cup 
predictions:
Jess  I predict that the judges 
will go all Daze.
He has been heralded all year, has 
consistently produced with a middleof-the-road squad, and doesnt play 
like a freshman. Hell grind towards 
the net for several years to come.
ChrisI predict Daniel Alfredsson 
will pick up the goods this year. He 
leads the league in rookie 
scoring while playing for 
the worst team in the 
league.
Chris Adukaitis is a 
junior civil/environ
mental engineering 
major who will be 
drinking out of the Cup 
this summer with Eric 
and the boys.
Jessica Strelitz is a 
sophomore professional 
writing major who will of
ficially become a Flyers fan 
if the Bruins miss the play
offs this season for the 
first time in 28 years.
Chris and Jessicas col
umn, On Net, will be ap
pearing bi-weekly oppo
site From the Point, by 
Jason Andracki.
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Editor
*NNugTO' MOR. cAiT.'i U.O'u.HX r'.XYTAHi
The Alley Oop
by Chris Cannon
Imagine more than 30,000 people. Now 
imagine those people booing. An uncom
mon sight? Not in sports. Not uncom
mon to baseball, theyve got the Mets. 
Not uncommon to football, or even Texas, 
theyve got the Oilers. But the sound of 
30,000 people, in the Alamodome, boo
ing, at an All-Star game, while the great
est player to ever play the game gets 
handed a trophy, is a little hard to take.
On February 11, Michael Jordan re
luctantly accepted the 1996 All-Star 
MVP trophy. After playing 22 of the 
first 33 minutes in the game, Jor
dan sat down late in the third 
quarter and never returned.
He had scored 20 points, 
missed only three shots, 
and not committed a 
turnover.
Jordan left after the 
East squad had just 
finished ppunding 
the West. If any
one doubted 
who had led 
the trounc
ing, they 
werent 
paying very 
much atten
tion.
Back to the 
end. While Jor
dan stood awkwardly at center court, 
the would-be MVP Shaquille ONeal 
could not be found. He was pouting in 
the locker room. After scoring 25 points, 
registering 10 rebounds, and putting 
some excitement in the fourth quarter, 
Shaq undoubtedly felt that he deserved 
the award. The fans agreed with him.
Shaq did deliver the most exciting 
play of the game, on what could be called 
a slow-break. Late in the game (when 
the outcome was pretty much decided) 
Shaq got the ball at the top of the key, 
dribbled, jumped, then flew over and 
through David Robinson (last seasons 
MVP) to slam the ball.
If you didnt see it, imagine Nate New
ton. Now imagine him flying. Now imag
ine him dunking over Superman in the 
Fortress of Solitude. Get the picture?
While exciting, its hard to call Shaqs 
performance valuable. In Shaqs 28 min
utes, there never was much defense 
played, in contrast to Jordan, whp 
matched-up (favorably) against tji 
Wests smaller and quicker point guards,. 
Shaq took more shots (16) and free throws 
(11) than anyone else. He missed twice 
as many free throws (six) as everyone 
else in the game combined.
Whats more important to consider is 
how the All-Star game will affect .'the 
rest of the season. Shaq is definitely 
pissed off and absolutely the type to hold 
a grudge. Teammate Penny Hardaway, 
whose play may have been even more 
valuable than Jordans in the game, will 
certainly want to get some respect for 
the big man. When you add in the East
ern powerhouse Knicks and Pacers (each 
upset about only having one all-star 
each), you should definitely get ready far 
an all-star royal rumble when it gefcsX 
be playoff time.
Out West, 
'things get even more 
muddled. Seattles Shawn 
Kemp had eight points in the first quar
ter of the game, but just five the rest, of 
the way. Kemp is having his career year, 
20th in scoring, 15th in blocked shots, 
fifth in field goal percentage, and third 
in rebounding. But hes mistake-prone, 
leading the league in turnovers and.hjgh 
in personal fouls.
The Sonics Gary Payton is also in his 
best year, which could also be his last in 
Seattle; hes a free-agent at the en,d;of 
this season.
Throw in the Spurs, Jazz, and Rockets, 
(three more teams with two all-stars, 
each) and you have the NBAs version of 
a demolition derby.
Both all-stars on all three teams played 
well, with the exception of Hakeem 
Olajuwon. The Dream, who is fasting 
Please see ALL-STARS, page 10
Small schools bring hope to tournament
The Sixth Man
by Ronak Singhal
The Musketeers, the Phoenix, 
the Fighting Blue Hens, and the 
Chanticleers. What do 
all these nicknames 
have in common?,
Are they the po
tential new 
names for the 
Washington 
Bullets? No, 
although 
these are bet
ter than any 
of the names 
suggested for 
the Bullets, these 
are the nicknames of 
a few of the smaller schools that 
have become major factors in the 
NCAA college basketball tourna
ment over the last few years.
What makes the NCAA college 
basketball tournament, and es
pecially the first two rounds of 
games, so exciting is the possibil
ity that schools rarely mentioned 
through the course of the regular 
season can come in and destroy 
the hopes of teams from major 
conferences. The greatest ex
ample of this type of game 
occurred several years ago 
when the Princeton Tigers, 
led by Kit Mueller (where is he
now?), almost defeated the Alonzo 
Mourning-led Georgetown Hoyas 
in the first round of the tourna
ment. Will this year be any differ
ent? Probably not. Heres a Quick 
look at the conferences likely to 
produce the team that will pull 
this years Upset Special.
Any discussion of conferences 
likely to produce teams that could 
cause upsets has to start with the 
Mid-American Con
ference.
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Editor
This conference is the home to 
such teams as Eastern Michi
gan, Ball State, Ohio University, 
and Miami of Ohio. Eastern 
Michigan is currently ranked in 
the top 25, while Miami produced 
one of the biggest upsets of last 
years tournaments when Devin 
Davis and his hair led the 
Redskins to victory over the 
Damon Stoudamire-guided Ari
zona Wildcats. This year, East
ern Michigan is unlikely to 
sneak up on anyone because of 
their ranking, but they are 
most likely going to have to 
upset a major conferences 
at-large team to move into 
the second round of 
the tournament. 
Our second stop 
on this tour 
through middle 
America is the 
Midwestern Col
legiate Confer
ence, home to the 
Phoenix of Wisconsin-Green 
Bay. Last year, 
this team played 
like its namesake 
and refused to 
die, losing by only 
one point to a heavily 
favored Purdue team. 
This year, they are 
21-2, and looking to 
cause a lot of havoc 
n March.
As we head back 
east, we visit the 
fabled Ivy League, 
where Penn and 
Please see UPSETS, page 10
YNOiic.X
JOBS
career within this industry or just to 
make some extra money, please call 
366-7446.
Alaska Employment-Students 
Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up 
to $3,000-56,000+ per month.
Room, board, and transportation. 
Male or Female. No experience 
necessary. Call (206) 971-3510 ext. 
A52361.
Earn $500 or more weekly stuffing 
envelopes at home. Send long SASE 
to : Country Living Shoppers, Dept. 
C22, P.O. Box 1779, Denham 
Springs, LA 70727.
Counselors for co-ed N.E. PA., 
Overnight Jewish Federation Camp 
3 hours from NYCgeneral, sports, 
waterfront & arts. Call 1-800-973- 
3866. On campus interviews 
available.
Chinese tutor fluent Chinese 
preferably Cantonese for tutoring. 3-
5 hours a week in 2 or 3 sessions.
$10/hour. Time of day negotiable. 
Formal lessons not required. Must 
like young children. 361-3557.
Movie extras neededUSxtras, the 
country's largest "extras only" 
company with offices in Connecticut 
and Los Angeles, is currently opening 
an office in Pittsburgh. Interested 
students who would like to pursue a
SERVICES
Free Financial Aid! Over $6 Billion in 
public and private sector grants & 
scholarships is now available. All 
students are eligible regardless of 
grades, income, or parent's income. 
Let us help. Call Student Financial 
Services: 1-800-263-6495 ext. 
F52362.
Lose weight for Spring Break! -up 
to 30 lbs. in 30 days. Allnatural 
herbal/nutritional products; doctor 
recommended! 429-5895.
TRAVEL
Free Trips & Cash! Find out how 
hundreds of students are already 
earning free trips and lots of cash 
with America's #1 Spring Break 
Company! Sell only 15 trips and 
travel free. Choose Cancn, Baha
mas, Mazatlan, or Florida. Call now - 
Take A Break Student Travel (800)- 
95-Break!
Always the lowest fares: LA $239, 
Phoenix $189, San Fransico $267,
Miami $178, Tokyo $797, Atlanta 
$118, New York $98, Warsaw &nv 
Prague $485. Northcut Travel atr 
884-6565.
Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT, 
Europe $169 OW & Domestic 
destinations cheap! If you can beat 
these prices, start your own damn 
airline. Air-Tech, Ltd. 212-219- 
7000. infor@acrotech.com. http:? 
/campus.net/acrotech.
See Europe! Free information qn 
Hostel cards, Eurail passes, Interna
tional street ID cards. Call 
Pittsburgh AYH, 422-2282 or http:/ 
/info.pitt.edu/~marianne/ ,
hostel.html. .. :
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........510.00/wk21-50 words.........$12.00/wk'-r.---
51-100 words......515.00/vyk.- ;
MAIL TO: ;
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon Univerisity. >  
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890"
Classifieds must be paid in cash orcheck before first run date
On-campus departments and orgaYiizations may pay by journal transfer  \
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
1 Volume 90, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 February 1996 |
EO'TOH POil.TPONN T.ORi TOYlN. fRA'U aH1.'iTU
Women lose final home game, 89-55Men split pair in UAA
By ADAM VINCENT
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon split a pair of UAA 
games this past week, losing to Wash
ington 78-67 on Sunday and beating 
Emory 69-63 to bring their record to 9- 
12 overall and 48 in the UAA.
In last Sundays game, the Tartans 
played a close match with UAA-division-leading Washington University. 
Unfortunately, they could not upset their 
foe. Senior Jon Blanciak lead the way 
with 20 points on 10-of-ll shooting. Fel
low senior Kevin Byrne chipped in with 
a 17-point performance.
In a pre-game ceremony on Friday, 
the Tartans honored seniors for the con
tributions they have made as members
of the Tartan basketball team. The six 
seniors honored were Byrne, Blanciak, 
B.J. Lang, Steve Hartman, Gregg 
Lassan, and Eric Ronzio.
Five of these six seniors started the 
game against Emory. They showed their 
leadership and ability by starting with 
an 11-0 run, paced by Byrne. The Tar
tans dominated for most of the first half, 
but poor officiating helped Emory stay 
in the game at 3227. The second half 
proved to be exciting as Emory tried to 
pull into the lead. However, the Tartans 
never relinquished the lead on their way 
to the 69-63 victory.
The seniors combined to score 54 of 
the teams 69 points. They were led 
again by Byrne, who scored 21 points 
and had nine rebounds. Lassan scored a 
career high in his last home UAA 
game with 17 and also had nine 
rebounds. Blanciak led the 
rebounders with 10, including 
eight offensive boards.
The thing that has held us 
back all year has been our inabil
ity to shoot the ball, said coach 
Tony Wingen. As a team we have 
not shot well all season. There 
was only one game that we shot 
better than 50 percent from the 
field. There have been at least 
five games that can be directly 
attributed to poor free-throw 
shooting. Our defense has been 
good enough all year; our re
bounding has been good enough 
all year. In these two areas ... we 
have done well enough to post a 
good record.
The Tartans face LaRoche Col
lege tonight in an away match
up. They finish the season at home 
next weekend, with a Thursday 
game against Thiel College at 
7:30 pm and a Saturday game 
against UAA foe University of 
Rochester at 2 pm.
In their last meeting, at Skibo 
Gymnasium on January 6, CMU 
edged out Rochester 67-63.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor
Senior center Jon Blanciak drives hard to the 
hoop against Emory on Friday night.
Track teams perform well at Bethany, Oberlin
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore guard Marcelle Steele brings 
the ball up the court in Fridays game 
against Emory University.
in four minutes, prompting a 
CMU time out. The Tartans 
settled down a little but could 
not make up the deficit. They 
battled within 13 points at 24 
11 on two free throws by junior 
Kristen Kupfer and stayed there 
after a three-pointer by junior 
Kelly Gaitens made it 28-15 
Emory. With 7:10 left, it was 
30-17, Emorys lead. Abaseline 
basket by sophomore Marcelle 
Steele brought the Tartans 
within 11 points, the closest they 
would get to Emory on two dif
ferent occasions. Any momen
tum gained by the Tartans on 
that play was promptly lost on 
Emorys next possession. 
Emorys Amy Carter, who fin
ished the game seven of nine 
from three-point range, was 
fouled in the act of shooting a 
three. She made the three and 
the ensuing free throw to com
plete the four-point play and 
turn the freshly trimmed 11- 
point lead into a more comfort
able 34-19 score. The next time
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan 
Junior forward Kristen Kupfer shoots 
heads of the Emory defenders. Kupfer 'led the 
Tartans with nine rebounds on the night
down the floor, Emory hit an
other three to make the lead 18 
points. With 2:30 left in the first 
half, the score was 41-24 with 
Emory on top. CMU sophomore 
Katie OLeary then worked the twomari game with senior Penny 
Sumlrnerville for a basket and a foul. 
With OLearys made free throw, 
Carnegie Mellon was down by a count 
of 41-27. A steal and breakaway lay-up 
by Summerville kept the Tartans within 
14 at 43-29, and the half-time tally was 
47-31 in favor of Emory.
While the first half didnt look very 
good for the Tartans, the second half 
didnt look much better. The Tartans 
played tough interior defense and scored 
seven unanswered points after an 
Emory basket to pull within 11, only to 
have Emory run off seven unanswered 
points of their own. Emory then began
was out of the game. Over time, the 
score just seemed to go up of its own 
accord. A shot block by sophomore Kerry 
Riley with five seconds left got the crowd 
on its feet, but by then CMU was down 
by 34 and the game was over. OLeary 
led the Tartans in scoring with 11 and 
Kupfer led the Tartans in rebounding 
with nine.
The Tartans have two games left in 
the season.Tomorrow, they play away 
at Chatham, a team they beat 9718 
earlier in the year. The squad then 
travels to the University of-Rochester 
for the season finale on Saturday, Feb
ruary 24.
Heading to the playoffs...
By RICK SIMMONS
Trtan Staffwriter
This past Friday a portion of 
the mens indoor track team par
ticipated in a meet at Bethany 
College, following last weeks 
quad-meet at Oberlin College. 
The Womens team also competed 
at Oberlin, winning the tri-meet. 
Both meets were successful for 
several individuals, as many per
sonal records were broken.
At Bethany, senior E.J. 
Tsangaris reached new personal 
bests in the shotput, with 42'1", 
and in the 35-lb. weight throw, 
with 41'10". Freshman John 
Rohrbacher outdid himself with 
a leap of 5'10" in the high jump. 
Sophomore Peter Hunt, the 
teams leading high jumper, has 
been out the last two meets due to 
an injury.
Junior Zack Conley gave a firstplace performance in the 55m 
hurdles. Freshman Froelen 
Montenegro placed second in the 
55m sprint with a time of 6.6 
seconds. The team also placed 
first in the 4x800m relay.
On Friday, February 9, at 
Oberlin College, the Tartans com
peted against Oberlin, Allegheny 
College, and Denison University 
in a quad-meet. The Tartans 
placed third overall, with 43 
total points.
Sophomore Rick Rikoski and 
freshman Aaron Binkley per
formed well in the pole vault, 
both placing in the top six.
Freshman Steve Wetter and se
nior Hiro Kanaya placed in the 
top six in the shot put, both set
ting new personal bests. Wetters 
41'8.5" shot put throw earned him 
second place.
Freshman Kristo Kreichbaum 
won the 1500m run with a time of 
4:14.27. Freshman Chris Loucks 
claimed first place in the 800m 
run with a 2:01.89 performance. 
In the distance medley, the relay 
squad took first in 11:24.56.
Other second-place finishers 
were Conley in the 55m run (8.38), 
junior Casey Smith in the 400m 
(55.01), and junior Ron Polcawich 
in the 5000m (16:04.27).
The womens team also trav
eled to Oberlin to participate in a 
tri-meet. The team won first place 
with 53 points, crushing Denison 
and Oberlin.
Junior Vonquitra Bebee led the 
scoring for the women by win
ning the 55m (7.79) and 300m 
(48.24), and anchoring the win
ning 1,600m relay (4:33.46).
Sophomore Melissa Lott broke 
the Oberlin Field House record
Pirates look to develop pitching staff
BRADENTON, Fla. (AP)  The Pittsburgh 
Pirates opened spring training camp Friday with 
actual team members.
Replacement players were a distant memory 
as manager Jim Leyland started the process of 
picking 11 pitchers.
Even with Thursdays signing of Zane Smith, 
Leyland and pitching coach Ray Miller probably 
must find at least two starting pitchers and 
certainly three or four relief pitchers.
The coaches have been pretty patient the last 
two years," Miller said. Weve had a lot of young 
pitchers and had to let them get their feet wet. 
We had to let everybody grow up. But its time to 
say, All right, now youve got to produce.
Leyland said it last year and hes saying it 
again: The Pirates have some of the best arms in 
the league. That doesnt mean they know how 
to pitch yet, but we have the arms, he said.
Third baseman Charlie Hayes agreed. Hes 
batted against these arms the last three years 
while playing for Colorado and Philadelphia. 
Great arms, he said. When theyve gotten 
hurt, its when they made mistakes. That comes 
with experience. .
Denny Neagle showed last season what can 
happen when a pitcher gains some experience 
and learns how to pitch. He went from 9-10 with
a 5.12 earned-run average in 1994 to 13-8, 3.43, 
the All-Star game, and a two-year contract worth 
$5.4 million in the last year.
The left-hander, though, is in the minority on 
the staff. The only other starters Leyland has 
said will be in the rotation are Paul Wagner and 
John Ericks, who are a combined 25-41 in the 
major leagues.
Wagner, who was 5-16 last season, could be 
the breakout guy this year, as Neagle was last 
season.
Youve always got to say he could emerge at 
any minute, Miller said. Its a matter of his 
stabilizing his emotions. He has the arm.
Ericks was 39 with a 4.58 ERA as a rookie 
last season. He lost his last five decisions. If you 
look at his hits-per-innings (ratio), he quietly 
pitched as well as anybody, Miller said.
Ericks allowed 108 hits in 106 innings. He 
walked 50.
Those vying for the two other starting posi
tions include right-hander Esteban Loaiza, who 
was 8-9 (5.16 ERA) as a rookie last season; 
Danny Darwin, the 40-year-old who has permis
sion to report a day or two late because of prior 
charity commitments; and Jason Christiansen, 
the left-hander who worked out of the bullpen 
last year.
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer
Junior right winger Jim Buck skates past a defender in Saturdays 6-4 home loss against Allegheny 
College. The team traveled to Allegheny Sunday night for a rematch and heads to Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania this weekend for the hockey playoffs.
with her first-place finish in the 
5,000m (18.12.3), while junior 
Becky Buchheit took second 
(18.26.5).
Freshman Erica Magliaros 
high jump of 4'8" brought in an
other second-place finish for the 
team, matched by additional sec
ond-place finishes from freshman 
Rosemary Perezs 32'5.5" shotput 
performance and Emily Slavys 
5:27.03 1,500m run.
Mens coach Gary Meckley said 
that the team is doing as well as 
can be expected. We just dont 
have a place to work, which puts 
us at a huge disadvantage to 
teams that have indoor facilities, 
he said. [The team] is progress
ing as well as they can progress. 
If we push any harder, we run the 
risk of injury.
Both teams traveled to Denison 
University this past Saturday.Edith Pong/Tartan Junior Staff
By ALVIN GAVIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens basket
ball team wrapped up its home schedule 
Friday night against Emory University. 
The Tartans (616 overall, 1-11 UAA) 
were looking to pull out a victory in their 
last home game of a somewhat disap
pointing year. However, Emory (15-6 
overall, 7-5 UAA) proved to be too tough 
a team, winning 89-55.
The tone of the game was set early, as 
Carnegie Mellon scored the games first 
points on a short jumper, then sat back 
and watched as Emory ran off 14 points

---------------------------------------------------

E Ec EaE*O I. Hi O ROr HiLI V lliVJ
Volume 90, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 February 1996
|k90 |,[,7wgE,g Eyf [adgw d.p 6f*w
By S. VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Editor
The onset of spring marks one of the 
Chinese cultures most significant cel
ebrations the Lunar New Year. Syn
chronized with the lunar calendar, the 
Chinese year follows a pattern of twelve 
stages that coincide with the changes 
in nature that occur in each respective 
stage. The distinctions were originally 
created in order to facilitate farmers in 
planning and harvesting schedules. 
The Lunar New Year takes place to
day.
The first three days of the new year 
are nationally observed in China, with 
all major businesses closed for the holi
day, signifying the importance of the 
occasion.
Dating back to the 1850s, one expla
nation of the origination of the Chinese 
New Year is relayed back to a monster, 
Nian, which feasted on the Chinese 
peoples on the eve of the new year. The 
legend continues that an immortal god 
saved the villages from Nian, by hang
ing red paper decorations from houses 
 red, being the monsters most feared 
color. To this day, the Chinese still 
celebrate the New Year, Guo Nian by 
decorating the streets with this red 
paper.
Each of the twelve cycles are marked 
by twelve animals which characterize 
the personalities of those bom in that 
cycle. The order of the cycles follow rat, 
ox, tiger, hare, dragon, serpent, horse, 
sheep, monkey, rooster, dog and the 
boar. 1996 is the Year of the Rat.
Those born in 1996 are supposedly 
charming, imaginative, and generous 
to those they love. They are prone to be 
quick-tempered and overly critical. 
They tend to be opportnists and are 
born to be happy salesmen, writers, 
critics, or publicists.
In addition to being a very tradi
tional time of year, the lunar new year 
provides many commercial 
oppurtunities while families spend
money on gifts, food and other types of 
paraphernalia that help to celebrate 
the auspicious occasion. Red envelopes 
filled with money are distributed to 
relatives, houses are cleaned, and fami
lies buy new clothing.
Dinner is a big deal for the new 
year, said Cindy Hwang, a sophomore 
computer science major and vice presi
dent of the Taiwanese Students Asso
ciation. Preparations usually take two 
to three days in order to ensure that 
leftovers will remain  a sign of pros
perity in the new year.
. On campus organizations such as 
the Asian Students Association and 
the TSA commemorated the new year 
this past weekend by holding bashes 
that were open to everyone.
Id like to say that [the lunar new 
year] is celebrated in full on campus, 
said Hwang. Ideally, if the entire cam
pus sees the event being celebrated , 
and they are given an opportunity to 
celebrate it themselves. Then the new 
year can be remembered.
The TSA sponsored a dinner and 
dance at Club Joy this past Saturday, 
for which tickets were sold in front of 
Doherty Hall all week. 102 tickets were 
sold. People tend to feel that its just 
an Asian thing*, but really, its for 
everyone, said Hwang.
The lunar new year i s a family event, 
so if we provide an oppurtunity to spend 
it with friends, it will make it easier to 
be away from home, said Jessica Fang, 
a senior psychology and industrial 
mangement major.
Following this idea, ASA threw a 
party last Friday in the Margaret 
Morrison Apartments.
For many Chinese students such 
gatherings provides an opportunity to 
remember Chinese culture and heri
tage.
Its a big family thing, said Victor 
Sie, a junior communication design 
major and president of ASA. Many 
students probably wouldnt observe it 
unless we organized an event.
Ryan Rhoads/Tartan Art Staff
CMUs honor societies recognize student
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
Honors societies are notorious for two things: 
selling things and dressing up. While both of 
those things apply to CMlFs groups, there is also 
much more going on.
An honor society, for those who never went to 
high school, is a group of people who are distin
guished by their scholarship, leadership, and 
service abilities. They are chosen yearly and are 
given the task of being a beackon of philan
thropy on an otherwise dull, lifeless, and non
service oriented campus.
Usually the cream of the crop, these organi
zations deal mostly with selling things and dress
ing up. At CMU, honor societies are not funded 
by Student Senate, thus must raise their monies 
on their own. However, a few other important 
aspects rate higher than mere appearence and 
retail.
We accomplish alot, saidRachael Nass sopho
more communication design major and a mem
ber of the Lambda Sigma Sophomore Honor 
Society. Its a great group and a positive expe
rience.
Lambda Sigma consists of sophomores who 
received a 3.5 or higher their freshman year and 
are selected based on an interview.
Largely a service organization, the group has 
helped with the Carnegie Centennial, the Bear
Run Nature Conservatory, and the Mortar Board 
Food Bank this year.
Also social, they funded and or
ganized a Chocolate Study break 
for all students during final ex
ams. Their pride, however, is their 
chance to socialize among them
selves. Group outings include regu
lar, member-sponsored dinners 
and treks to Gulliftys for dessert.
All work and no play makes the 
common sophomore a dull student, 
and the same goes for the seniors.
That is why Mortar Board was 
founded.
We get the best of the best, said 
Mortar Board president Michael 
Leonard. This senior organization 
also prides itself on leadership, 
scholarship, service, and selling 
bagels for charity.
Currently, their service is based 
around childrens issues like 
malnutrion, literacy and general 
education.
The group has been very active 
in planning food drives, raising 
money for the Ronald McDonald 
House, planning Dare to Share activities, and 
organizing a gigantic kickball tournament involv
ing the faculty, students, and staff in a collabora
tion of gym-related excitement.
While most of their activities are philanthropic,
others, like 
the campuswide kickball 
tournemant, 
are just for 
fun. We dont 
want to go 
crazy. said 
Leonard. So 
we do weird 
stuff. The 
weird stuff in
cludes plan
ning wacky 
activities and 
selling bagels.
Juniors are 
currently be
ing selected 
for next years 
group. All 
those with a 
3.5 or greater 
are sent invi____________________________ tationstojoin
Gabrien Symans/ Tartan Art Editor anc[ are given
an informational packet. After they have been 
notified of acceptance, the current Mortar Board 
members call the new members to two meetings
achievements
where they decide on the officers for next year.
These meetings are very informal and are 
based mostly around placing the new members 
in the necessary positions and letting the re
cruits get to know each other. In that way, the 
Mortar Board membership is constantly renewed 
and the organization more or less becomes im
mortal, feeding of the each years crop of juniors.
Leonard says that all of the members are from 
the best of a lot of majors and extracurricular 
activities.
Therefore, the group is a sort of a reward for 
hard-working seniors who can unwind with the 
group and rest, albeit gently, on their laurels.
Other honor societies on campus include: Phi 
Beta Kappa (the group with the infamous key), 
Tau Beta Pi, and the Order of Omega (the Greek 
honor society).
These groups, like Lambda Sigma and Mortar 
Board, also hold their basic tenets as leadership, 
scholarship, and service.
These groups fill a void on campus for those 
who have worked dilligently their four years and 
deserve some socialization, good times, and com
munity service.
These groups recruit members in the Spring, 
so be on the look-out for them and their wares.
For more information on Lambda Sigma or 
Mortar Board, Matthew Kenworthy or Michael 
Leonard.


---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996
Winter Activities Fair falls short 
of student organizations needs
By ANNE MARIE DEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Office of Student Activities held 
an activities fair last Thursday to intro
duce the various groups on campus to
K, said that the fence should have been 
painted and her club would have done it 
if asked. Pat Hamed of the Office of 
Student Affairs offered that it is much 
easier to advertise the fall fair because 
of freshman orientation and everyone 
more people, but, according to partici* was expecting the annual event. Her their time at the fair talking to other 
pants, it didnt really accomplish that office hung up signs around campus and groups to possibly establish partnergoal. placed an ad in The Tartan last week, ships in their projects. The people here
Few students were found in the Drill Although the fair was not scheduled are the people who are the most active, 
Deck that werent already associated to end for another half hour, by 6:15 said Dahl, The people who will do the 
with a booth. Low tumcampus more active... and to show a 
commitment to enriching and diversify
ing campus. The best way to do it is 
through student groups that encourage 
student involvement.
The members of Circle K spent part of
out was blamed on many 
factors, two of which were 
weather and location.
Amber Benezra, a repre
sentative from the 
Womens Center, said, It 
was a bad idea to have it 
in this basement place.
Following Benezras 
sentiment Will Tran 
from CMUout felt that a 
more central location 
would have increased 
student numbers. It 
needs to be on the cut, 
he said. Its a lot more 
successful in the fall. You 
couldnt help but notice 
it as you walked by.
Many believe that such 
problems will be 
allieviated with the opening of the Uni
versity Center. Once campus is cen
tralized physically that will increase 
participation, said Hillary Lewitt from 
the Jewish University Center.
One group contended that fraternity 
parties are better advertised than the 
fair was. Kris Dahl, president of Circle
most.
Members of The Soci
ety for Creative Anach
ronism, who research 
and re-create the 
middle ages, found the 
fair worthwhile. Wed 
probably get dressed up 
anyway. Weve spent 
the time talking to each 
other and having fun, 
said Lynne Powell.
Hamed said that Stu
dent Activities didnt 
plan the fair until they 
met with leaders from 
student activities. 
Enough people have 
historically come that 
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor it was worth having it, 
The Student Alumni Relations Council took part in the activities fair. she said. We want to
reach out to students 
about half of the groups were packing who didnt get plugged in the fall. 
up their stuff and leaving. Tom One such student was Tobin 
Lawrence of CmuOUT said, Were goMcDaniel, a freshman ChemE major.
ing to stick it out to the bitter end. 
The groups that were represented did 
not regret taking the time to come to the 
fair. Levitt said, [Coming to the fair] 
shows theres an effort to make the
He explained his reasons for coming to 
the fair, I concentrated on my studies 
first semester. Im going to become 
more involved on campus. I need more 
of an outside life from books.
Organizations observe Valentines Day
By ANDREW WANG
Tartan Staffwriter
It seems that there are so 
many cynical people here. It 
would be nice if more people 
could get caught up in the 
spirit, said Justin Hildebrant, 
a sophomore studying electri
cal and computer engineering, 
when asked about his percep
tions ofValentines Day at CMU.
A handful of student 
organisations have tried to 
make the best ofValentines Day 
while the majority of the stu
dents at CMU let it pass.
Organizations capitalized on 
Valentines Day this year 
primarilybyproviding 
Valentines gifts and services.
Both Sigma Phi Epsilon and 
the Korean Student Associa
tion sold and delivered roses to 
raise funds, while the Chinese 
Student Association delivered 
candygrams. Tri-Delt and'Delta Upsilon 
delivered Hugs, Slaps, and Kisses to 
raise funds for the Childrens Cancer 
Charities, and theGreek Council spon
sored Have a Heart to support the 
American Heart Association.
I think its a great idea! It benefits both 
the campus and the organization, said 
Brian Curfinan, a junior in MCS and 
H&SS, when he was asked for his opinion 
on student organizations capitalizing on 
Valentines Day.
Out the of 32 students surveyed in front 
of Doherty Hall on Valentines Day, 88 
percent had positive attitudes towards
Amlt Kar/Tartan
student organisations capitalizing on 
Valentines Day while sixpercent of the 
survey group were neutral and six per
cent had negative reactions. The 25 per
cent of the survey group who bought gifts 
or servicesfrom thestudentorganisations, 
spent an average of $17.86 each. Its cool. 
People have got to make money, so why 
not sell love? said Dave Malli, a sopho
more industrial management major.
Im going to take a limosine to the 
Vista with my girlfriend where I have a 
suite set up with all the amenities, said
Malli when asked what he planned to do 
on Valentines Day. Of the students sur
veyed 31 percent did Valentines Day - 
related activities such 
as going on a date or 
celebrating while the 
other 69 percent either 
had to work, study, do 
homework, or do other 
common CMU activi
ties.
 [I am going to] sit 
alone in a dark room 
and cry, said Peter 
Ward, a senior biology 
major.
Study for semicon
ductors, said David 
Paul, a sophomore 
majoring in electrical 
and computer engi
neering, when asked 
the same question.
________________ Some students recBusiness Manager ommend that student
organizations might be able to raise more 
funds by hosting even more events to 
foster the spirit ofV alentines Day. There 
needs to be some sort of dance, said 
Adam Vincent, a sophomore information 
and decision sciences and political sci
ence major.
I think a lot of people have negative 
feelings about today. Valentines Day is 
not only about love, it is about friendship. 
People should realise that, said Bader 
Al-Essa, a sophomore studying mechani
cal engineering.
Federal budget 
cuts hurt women
CRACKING THE MYTH
By Suzanne Paddock
This will be a critical election year 
for women. Republicans have used 
the excuse of balancing the budget to 
propose cuts in welfare and medicaid 
and abolish affirmative action, which 
directly affect women and minorities. 
Rather than blindly accepting such 
political rhetoric, it is important to 
ask some probing questions. Will bal
ancing the budget benefit most Ameri
cans? How will restrictions imposed 
on affirmative action affect job oppor
tunities for women and minorities?
According to the Womens Budget 
Project of the Womens International 
League for Peace and Freedom, Con
gress wants to cut $245 billion from 
Medicaid, cut $270 billion in taxes for 
the rich, and give the Pentagon $6 
billion more than it asked for. The 
majority of the cuts will 
occur in the discretion
ary section of the bud
get which accounts for 
36% of the total federal 
budget. Of the discre
tionary section, military 
costs consist of 50% of 
the expenses. The U.S. 
remains as the country 
which spends the most 
on the military.
Investing in the mili
tary is devestationalnot 
only to the environment 
but to women as well.
Women are severely under-represented in the 
military and receive 
fewer military contrac
tor jobs.
Because women and 
minority men are still 
under-represented in 
the military and other 
job areas which offer 
higher pay, affirmative 
action remains a vital 
assest to most women 
and minority men. For 
many people, affirma
tive action offers a 
chance at education or a 
job that they normally 
would not be able to ob
tain. According to a 
1995 study, an esti
mated six million 
women wouldnt have 
the jobs they have today 
were it not for affirma
tive action.
The media and some 
republicans have tried 
to make affirmative ac
tion into a race issue 
to divide and conquer 
those who normally 
would have supported 
affirmative action. Af
firmative action is a race
issue but its also a sex issue as well. 
In 1993, Hispanic women earned a 
median income of $16,758, AfricanAmerican women earned a median 
income of $19,816, and white women 
earned a median income of $22,023. 
White men earned a median income of 
$31,089.
Lately there has been a resurgence 
of the discriminated white man who 
cant find a job and feels that he is 
being blamed for all the problems in 
the U.S. Those people who think that 
abolishing affirmative action will pro
vide them with new jobs should pres
sure Congress to cut military spend
ing and invest it in social investments 
such as employment and training and 
education, so that all of us can have 
jobs. In this election year it is impor
tant that you ask your self how cutting 
federal aid to the poor and restricting 
affirmative action will help to balance 
the budget. Or better yet, how will 
cutting and restricting such 
programsreally benefit the majority 
of Americans.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior Liter
ary and Cultural studies major and 
minors in gender studies.
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Editor
Features
is looking for writers interested in 
writing human interest pieces on a 
weekly basis. Anyone interested 
ilyDuld email sv2f or call . , i
" I I W ^1 O 1*1 I I I * I \ i t91 1 l.\The Tartan at x8-241 l&'f
'fi
F
Sr(
Medical miracles start with research
American Heart
Association*^^
Fighting Heart Disease 
and Stroke
BLOWOUT SALE!
NASSAUWONOHOi
I REFUSE TO BE UNDERSOLD!
ITI DEUT TRAVEL Fligbu lo Caocun. Nassau aal Mzzailan are Public Qunoi-The chanex opera is TaJie A Break Suxfcm TraL 
ranm:TvAhiffi!f IT* direct air carriers ate Paradise Airways and Vitcouni Air Soviet. An Operator's Option Plan is requirc_

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996L3
|ONcA'HO iYbAAN iUiT.R 
X'Ari Occ'ROT1. OYTAH
SAN FRANCISCO February 
16 (AP) _ The University of Cali
fornia Board of Regents agreed 
to give school administrators a 
little more time to get rid of 
affirmative action.
The regents unanimous deci
sion Thursday in a voice vote 
settled the issue 
on how to imple
ment the contro
versial policy, 
which drops race 
and gender con
siderations from 
admissions deci
sions and other 
areas.
I say thank 
God the regents 
have put an end 
to this sorry soap 
opera that domi
nated our meet
ings, said Lt.
Gov. Gray Davis, 
also a regent.
The policy has 
been roundly 
criticized by mi
nority and 
womens rights 
activists.
.University 
President Rich
ard Atkinson had 
battled with the 26-member 
board over its original mandate 
that the changes be made by 
fall 1997.
Sanity prevailed, said re
gent William Bagley.
Sparks flew last month when 
Atkinson announced that the 
boards July vote dropping race 
and gender from admissions de
cisions would be delayed until 
fall 1998.
Under pressure from several 
regents, including Republican 
Gov. Pete Wilson, Atkinson 
agreed to implement the raceblind admissions for graduate 
and professional students en
tering in September 1997.
But he insisted that he 
wouldnt be able to get rid of 
affirmative action in under
graduate admissions until fall 
1998.
Ten regents then ordered a 
special meeting to review 
Atkinsons performance, an 
ominous measure last taken in 
1967 when Clark Kerr became 
the only president fired at the 
university.
The review was averted 
when Atkinson apologized and 
offered spring 1998 as a com
promise for undergraduate ad
missions.
The ban says the university 
shall not use race, religion, sex, 
color, ethnicity or national ori
gin as criteria for admission to
the university or as a criterion 
in its employment and contract
ing practices. However, it says 
social and economic disadvan
tages can be taken into account.
Some board members, in
cluding Atkinson, said the bail 
was loosely worded. Others, in
cluding the' 
proposals au
thor, Ward 
Connerly, 
said the bans 
intent was 
clear.
Connerly 
said he and 
other regents 
who pushed 
f o r t h e 
changes still 
arent con
vinced that 
Atkinson 
needs the ex
tra time. But 
they kept 
quiet in the 
spirit of coop
eration. 
Atkinson, 
the former 
chancellor of 
UC-San Di
ego, took over 
as head of the 
nine-campus system of 154,000 
students in October.
In a related development, a 
student newspaper today sued 
Wilson and the regents, accus
ing them of violating public 
meetings laws before their vote 
in July.
The Daily Nexus at UC Santa 
Barbara accused Wilson of cir
cumventing the requirement 
that regents actions be pub
licly debated when he lined up 
support beforehand in tele
phone calls and private meet
ings with individual regents.
Amit Kar/Tartan Business Manager
Columnist opposes abortion 
censorship on the Internet
Focused on the Internet
By Kenton Shaver
Here in these times of fear 
1 and lack of trust it is hard to 
see afuture ahead when any 
of our problems resolve, but 
for this we need only look to 
1 the past.
You are here to prepare 
' for the future, but let us for 
:a moment talk of these past 
times. Once there was a fo
rum where any man could 
peak any words without 
fear of government repris
als such as those suffered by 
college students of Beijing 
University who were put to 
death by the Red Army of 
their countrys tyrannical 
Communist masters for dar
ing to peacefully gather in 
the town park in support of 
democracy. They still perse
cute or imprison the survi
vors of that demonstration 
that Communists crushed 
seven years ago.
The world that I speak of 
was built on shared experi
ence and driven by the dis
semination of knowledge on 
such a scale as of which 
Confucius never dreamed. 
Im speaking of a medium 
set up by those dedicated to 
pursuit of knowledge, men 
of science, and now almost 
empowered to bring man
kind a learning of such 
greatness as to in time res
cue us from ignorance and 
the suffering it brings.
But that past has ended 
and the future threatens a
new dark age. There will be no 
more voices but those guard
edly spoken by users held in 
fear of reprisal. The advance 
of technology will soon put in 
the hands of our keepers weap
ons of retina scan and a me
lange of like technologies that 
these future tyrants can sup
press voices of moderation by 
using to irrefutably verify ev
ery origin of dissent to the 
status quo as well as every 
one of us daring to speak 
thoughts not shared by those 
in power. Our elected govern
ment is vesting itself with the 
ability to conduct not just un
reasonable but instantaneous 
and continuous search of each 
citizen. In the years ahead, 
their control of a medium that 
has become ubiquitous in our 
lives will be without check or 
balance.
The Bill of Rights documents 
which has given birth to a two 
hundred and seven year de
mocracy, guaranty against 
these unreasonable searches 
and such must continue to 
extend that guarantee lest the 
nightmare of an Orwellian 
future of instant forced search 
and easy, continual monitor
ing rip away the freedoms we 
hold. The thought police are 
on our doorstep and empow
ered to an extent than George 
Orwell never imagined when 
he wrote.
We are marching in lock-step 
towards a future where 
governmenthas vest itself 
with fundamental control of 
the medium of the New Age. 
Even as I write this the only 
barrier to fine or imprison
ment for just talking of abor
tion on the computer networks 
is the restraining order of a 
Federal Judge. But none of us
have so much strength to 
throw down the barriers to a 
new age of learning forces of 
tyranny have now seek to 
bolster. The Chinese college 
student filmed holding back 
a column of government 
tanks with nothing more 
than his will and belief 
would weep to see, if he still 
lives, the weapons of free
dom we let rust in our hands 
as we allow silence on the 
global communications net
works to settle undisturbed.
No one has so much 
strength to pull the Internet, 
a guilded chalice of informa
tion, out of the mud which 
our elected government has 
plunged it, than us. OUr 
children must be heard, so 
futrure generations can can 
nourish themselves with the 
nectar of knowledge it con
tains. Our generation must 
serve as guardians and sav
iors of the inheritance we 
have come into because 
penultimate times have 
surely not come. Any war 
refugee, any impoverished, 
any suffering under degra
dation of the ecosystem, any 
victim of disease, any men 
living under tyranny will 
shout and cry that there are 
problems yet to solve.
But as the hours pass the 
mud entombing this chalice 
of knowledge from which fu
ture free men must drink 
from hardens, making any 
rescue more difficult. Rise 
up now and add your 
strength to the hands that 
pull the treasure out of this 
quagmire lest the freedom 
to think be lost in our time.
Kenton Shaver is a senior 
English major.
Students should walk like Charlie Chaplin
PULP FREE
By Eric Salzman
Walk like Charlie Chaplin. 
I think youll see the differ
ence almost immediately. 
Forget all those lose 15 
pounds in three hours diets 
or the get happy by stand
ing on your head and listen
ing to this cassette pro
grams. All you need to do is 
walk like Charlie Chaplin 
in order to maintain a well 
balanced, happy life.
No matter how constipated 
your brain is, theres noth
ing like a little waddling to 
get a bit of mental levita
tion. You can try this tech
nique in the comfort of your 
own home, but the ideal set
ting is outdoors. Imagine, if 
you would, the Oh shit! 
clock out on the Cut reads 
^somethinglike 12:57. Every
one is rushing to get to their 
one oclock on time. Suddenly, 
from out of the sky descends 
the hilarious one  Mr. 
Chaplin.
Walk like me and you will 
see the light, he tells the stu
dents on their way to class. 
With a baah and stomp of 
the hoof, students suddenly 
relinquish the projectile mo
tion of their academic spew, 
and begin to walk like ... no, 
not an Egyptian, but rather, 
like Chaplin.
Heres how: angle your feet 
out about 60 degrees from nor
mal. Lean back ever so slightly 
so that more weight is resting 
on your outer thighs and butt 
(bum for you English folks or 
tushy for you Yiddish speak
ers). Tilt your head back ever 
so slightly so that you get a 
view of the world that falls in 
just a bit above eye level.Find 
out whats up there.
You may find that your tush 
gets a bit tuckered, but hang 
in there. The muscles will only 
tighten.
The hustle and bustle will 
most likely continue even as 
our campus seems to develop
some sort of odd penguin epi
demic. However, CMU will be 
just about the happiest place
sonal experiment. .
Indeed, even I get grumpy. 
So, on one of those rare occa
sions when I was a bit down 
in the dumps, I started walk
ing around the way that 
helped make the late comic 
so famous. The result was so 
uplifting. First I laughed at 
myself. Then I laughed at 
everyone else. To gain a 
sense of full appreciation, 
youll just have to try the 
walk. I cant explain it all 
here.
That Charlie must have 
had a blast walking around 
like that all the time. And 
you could too. All it takes is 
a couple of feet, a tough tush, 
and some serious waddling 
ability. Come on kids, get 
with it. Waddle! Waddle! 
Waddle! The time has finally 
come!
Eric Salzman is a junior 
philosophy major with no 
Amit Kar/Tartan Business Manager' prospect for a summer job, 
internship or otherwise 
meaningful ways to spend 
his time. He welcomes any 
charitable donations or job 
offers.
in the world. See, thats the 
beauty of walking like Charlie 
 its impossible to be grumpy. 
I know this because of a perLOVE OVERBOARD
You are cordially invited to join the members 
of Spirit for an evening of dinner, dancing 
and a moonlit cruise aboard the Gateway 
Clippership for the 1996 Cultural Unity 
Formal. Friday, February 23rd from 
8pm to 12am. Transportation provided. 
Tickets are $20 and are available at the 
Info. Desk or contact Rosalyn Rice at 2-3162 
or rr3u for more information.
Get off it. Exercise.
American Heart
Association-^^Positions Available for students interested in 
providing a summer of recreation for special needs 
children and adults. Beacon Lodge Camp located in 
Central Pennsylvania, is seeking camp counselors 
for summer camping program beginning May 28 
and ending August 14. In addition there is a need 
for WSI; Lifeguards, Program Director, Unit 
Director, Nurses; and the following instructors: 
Canoeing, Kayaking, Archery, Riflery, Games, Arts 
& Crafts, Music/Drama, Nature. The summer offers 
a well-rounded program of activities from bowling 
to overnight camp outs, and canoe trips down the 
Juniata River. To request an application and/or 
additional information, write to:
PA LIONS BEACON LODGE CAMP 
114 SR103 SOUTH 
MOUNT UNION, PA 17066-9601 
PHONE 814-542-2511 
FAX 814-542-7437
Summer Housing in Neui Voih Qlii
Live at New York University in the heart of Greenwich Village while 
you work, do an internship, or just enjoy summer in the city.
 Minutes from New Yorks business and cultural centers
 Apartment-style and traditional residences, single and 
double occupancy
 Outstanding sports-recreation facility
 Over 1,000 courses offered day and evening
Housing available May 19-August 10 
For more information, call toll free
1-800-771-4HVU, ext. 903
_________________New York University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.

---------------------------------------------------

Pittsburgh finally Has A Low-Fare Airline.
Our Promise To Pittsburgh: 
Low Fares Every Day, 
Everywhere We Fly.
Everyday Low ValuFares
ATLANTA$59
CHARLOTTE$69
MEMPHIS/NASHVILLE 
SAVANNAH$89
JACKSON NEW ORLEANS 
RALEIGH-DURHAM$99
DALLAS-FORT WORTH 
KANSAS Cm'$119
Florida ValuFarc
ORLANDO TAMPA$19
FORT LAUDERDALE 
FORT MYERS/JACKSONVILLE 
MIAMI / WEST PALM BEACH$89
If youve ever wished airfares were lower, your 
time is coming. Because on March 1, Valujet will begin 
flying three daily nonstops to Atlanta. And every seat on 
every flight is just $59 for travel through March 31,1996. After 
that date, fares as low as $59 will still be available with a 21-day 
advance purchase. Seats are available now.
From Atlanta youll be able to make convenient, 
low-fare connections to seven sunny Florida cities, for feres 
as low as $79. You can also connect through Atlanta to cities 
around the south, including New Orleans, Savannah, and 
Dallas-Fort Worth. And you may find that the great, big 
airlines will lower some of their fares to those destinations 
now that Valujets come to town. Which is why we say,
The fares not feir, unless Valujet flies there.
Whais A Valujei, Anyway?
Valujet is an Atlanta-based airline founded on the 
principle of offering low airfares and friendly, enthusiastic 
service. We dont have a First Class section, we won't serve 
airline food, and we cant fly you to Europe. But our low fares, 
positive attitude, hassle-free ticketless" reservations system, 
and lack of restrictions (Valujet never requires a roundtrip 
purchase or a Saturday night stay,) have resulted in such a high 
degree of customer loyalty that \frlujet has been described 
as, "the most successful start-up in airline history. 
We invite you to find out why for yourself
1-800-VALUJET
Valujet
Visit us on the Internet at http:/Avww.valujet.com
Fare to Atlanta is good for ever) seat on every flight for travel through March 31,1996. Fares are based on Vfclujet's 21-day advance purchase Off-Peak fares, 
and will still be available on that basis after conclusion of this special offer. Off-Peak times (we call them VkluDavs) are: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday; Thursday 
before 2:00 PM and after 7:00 PM; Friday before 11:30 AM; Saturday before 9:00 AM and after 12:00 Noon; Sunday and Holiday periods are Peak. Our lawyers insist 
we tell you that schedules and fares are subject to change without notice. An Airport Passenger Facility Charge of $3- $6 may apply, but we can't do anything 
about that. All fares are subject to availability. All fares are one-way and non-refundable. Alls well when you fly Valujet.
little italy
pizza Pie. coMPduy
Cpizza au' natural)
3>W fifth aucdug ro.Gr / oohland pa.
GCMPCCAY Ol GCMPCiGG
pizza, -pasta, 
baogtes, calzone 
5+roMboli, salads
i HOTG.
ve.Ge.taRian ,. 
CC!RHTVe.Rou2 
cubine.
-------5
large plain /'pick ap j 
 spacial ________^
FRe.e. v Re.chLe.22 pe.uve.Ry 
acce.pt a l l 
C0Mpe.tTt0R2 
Coupon^'
thats right, 
we match any\ 
artificially low 
prices offered/ 
by the
evil corporate^ 
giants we one' 
day hope 
to become.
Disclaimer: the word reckless is intended to mean wreck 
As in: Impeccably safe & courtious drivers wreck less.
less.
t
Ash Wednesday 
February 21, 1996
Mass and 
Distribution of Ashes
12 Noon 
5:00 PM 
Drill Deck 
Student Center / Navy Building
5:15 PM 
Donnelly Chapel
Ryan Catholic Newman Center 
4450 Bayard Street
681-3181
HEYCMU STUDENTS!
Are you looking for some 
LIVE ACTION this winter?
SCHENLEY PARK 
ICE SKATING RINK
 gives you some exercise
 is cheap
 is a great group activity
 has a pumping sound system!
You can also rent the ice for parties 
and hockey. There is a party room available for 
fraternity and sorority functions  whatever!
It's cheap and within walking distance of Skibo.
(For more information, call 422-6547)
COLLEGE I.D. NIGHT
FROM 9:30 to 11:30 EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT 
and also l:30-3:30pm EVERY WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON 
The special rate is $1.50 for admission 
and $ 1.50 for skate rental. 
TOTAL OUTLAY: $3.00 
CALL 422-6547 FOR A COMPLETE 
LISTING OF RINK HOURS.

---------------------------------------------------

DILBERT  by Scott Adams
'T.. ELIMINATE SICK, DAYS?'! 
MAKE THE/A USE VACATION 
DAYS WHEN THEY'RE ILL. 
CALL IT A "TIME BANK "
CAT6E.RT THE EVIL HUMAN 
RE.5QUKCE5 DIRECTOR
HERE'S THE REVISED 
STANDARD EMPLOYMENT 
AGREEMENT. SIGN IT 
OR BE FIRED.
THIS AGREEMENT IS 
BETWEEN THE COMPANY 
(HEREAFTER REFERRED 
TO AS 'THE ONLY COMPANY 
THAT WOULD EVER HIRE 
YOU') AND YOU (HERE
AFTER CALLED?^ 
'PUDDING J 
HEAD')."
IT SEEMS 
TO HAVE 
A BIT OF 
ATTITUDE.
 50fAfAN THE 
OF
OUR LAWYERS 
TURNED ON 
US. 1 SU5PECT 
RABIES.
THE EMPLOYEES HAVE 
TOO MUCH TIME OFF. 
XTMUST BE STOPPED,IT'S PLAYFUL... 
ITS CRUEL... I 
( LIKE IT.
ACCORDING TO THIS, 
ANYTHING WE EVEN 
THINK OF BECOMES THE 
COMPANYS PROPERTY. I'M 
SURPRISED THEY DON'T 
CLAIM OUR FIRSTBORN 
SONS! , \ c~-~-p
I CAN'T BELIEVE THEY 
EXPECT US TO SIGN THESE 
NEU EMPLOYMENT AGREE
MENT FORMS.
WHAT DO YOU SUPPOSE IT | 
MEANS WHEN THEY 
COPYRIGHT OUR "DNA 
AND ALL DERIVATIVE J 
WORKS1 T / THEY'D MAKE AN 
11 EXCEPTION FOR
J\YOU. ____
IT'S PROBABLY BECAUSE 
OF THE HYPE, BUT I'M ' 
THINKING THIS WOULD 
BE EVEN BETTER WITH  
WINDOWS IS."
I KNOW I SHOULD BE 
OFF TORMENTING f 
PEOPLE...
BUT I CAN'T PRY k 
MYSELF AWAY FROtA 
THIS MOST 
EXCELLENT BUTTv 
WARMING DEVICE. )
LOOK AT THE AGREEMENT MY 
COMPANY 15 FORCING US 
TO SIGN. THEY CLAIM THE 
RIGHTS TO ANY IDEA AN 
EMPLOYEE EVER HAS.
WOULDN'T 'A MAYBE YOU 
THAT BE COULD TUST 
DISHONEST?! SHOW THEM
- -------- ------ SOME OF YOUR
IDEAS AND 
THEY'D GRANT 
WAIVER.
X HEARD 
THAT THE 
NEW CO-OP 
ONLV LASTED 
ONE DAY.
YOU'LL BE SHARING 
THIS CUBICLE WITH 
OUR OTHER CO-OPS.
AS A CO-OP EMPLOYEE, 
YOU CAN'T EXPECT THE 
SAME LUSH CUBICLE 
ENVIRONMENT THAT THE 
REGULAR EMPLOYEES 
ENJOY. , -j.
NO PROBLEM. TUST RETYPE 
IT WITH A FEU STRATEGIC 
OMISSIONS AND SIGN IT. 
THEY CANT PROOFREAD 
EVERY ONE.
HE OIDNT 
FIT XN.
Vfe certainly shall not! This is a highly respected news organization  we do riot pay sources!
Iran m:TvAhi fr 
Arh a: !: 
!mv'u !Ir t:<j
Abv <!:mai :Ar s 
I:m !: vbmi
If it's cash-fortrash you're after, try some other shop! Our integrity is not for sale!
trme.I!
!Itmtp
SOMEONBS\
FLASHING^TV ^ J
!rA obA!r< ] [ bAAr:!bp 
!:vbms fIrmr v!g:A<s Iry< 
vmt frc S ':obAbA 
e v TY!!w" / 
rTrN=.'--- - IraIn r:
To: Roland Hedley Assume you're famil iar with "Primary Colors," the novel based on the '92 Cl inton campaign.
So how much is  my true identity worth to you, Mr. Hedley? Shall we say $25,000? ,--
Iras 'IvmTbri PUMP THE \ WAR CRIMES \ 
*1 hbr'ri b
I happen  to know who the mystery author is.
Interested?
ubh<i ta v ':oh!rm vAh g<!! < v! !Ir h::Ar<tma rTr'!m:Ab' !:eA Ivs <5 http://www. doonesbury. Com
After the money's been deposited, Ill reveal my name to you, along with full documentation. Tomorrow night, you break the story of the year.
,-v " -
Oh, that's different. No problem. How do we 
get the ^ money to M you?^^^H
Irf:A! 
<vas b! 
o<! tr 
v hmvAus
Sorry, pal, we don't pay news sources !
What about it, i Mr. Hedley? fcnt j to know who wrote the roman  clef I of the decade? i
Iras 'IvmTbri :! <:orp 
t:ha :ApArfI: 
<va< Ir uA:f< 
fI: fm:!r 
yhmbovma al 
':T:m<Cy / L
WONPER 
WHERE 
1SHOULP j 
PUT THE 
I EMMY... J
oa.qhps 
hbh Ir 
bhrA!bNa 
Ibo<rTNW
Ill 1 e-mail i 
my bank account number to you tonight.
Will this be your , first r Emmy, 
?LSYW I
What'syour
name
Anonymous.
I'm not a source -- I'm a consultant.
trvmbA bA 
obAh a:ymr 
<b!!bA v! 
hr!rm erAj
AbA<U !rmp 
*^SogAvT V
Just who do you think you're dealing with here, fellah? This is incredible! How dumb do you think I am?
m:TvAhn b!< k 
CvA:Aao:<Ci 
!Iv!y< fI: 
fm:!r !Ir  
to t::ui VxJ
Wait a minute.. . Why would you blow your cover for $25,000 when your byline as "Anonymous" could be worth millions?
Your rock-solid reputation for fairness, I guess. Also, with your awesome investigative skills, you were bound to get me eventually.^
h:A! tr 
q <mrn 
t:<<sTr! 
ot 'Ir'u 
Ibo :!sss
SOME TIP/] THE GUY
ForumemraeiVEHIS 
Avory S8
Something doesn't j add up here, pal! L This has been a big scam from the start, hasnt it? _>-------
IoosssIr 
'rm!vbATa 
<rro< S 
Trb!sss J
Thanks for logging in, Anonymous, why'd you r pick me? J
e<! <Ia 
:Nhvahvan I 
v< b! !mA< 
1 :!....'
: AS1P ms w*jd3?-Q& "Wsevzwmi 
i &
AM TH
PGEAP VEM3 OF 
; 5tnPpcfp
1 miee 
\\ 1,"xitm. m&(*i  
or-we mx r.
the tESTBDVEK 
TE PEPffk.1
OOT 
THE HA1ZP WAV'
thwihe initials 
'B.F STAMP FOR SLOP PASkq'
ANJP fJOT
BREATH WAT
&MH16 LIKE PISH
XaH.^AT  \ W^fiTT I 
ltJ TVSZlM j 
THgV'"
vgrr y
we njKgoF ^ 
PK>mjcnoM 
Aip peaHMawae
PIABOUCAL---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Itpe trt tySZ?*Heuu 6VIEZMBKJH
THE MANY MOODS OF BOB DOLE
~the
m
bu S/lawr, C
K* kt
U)HEN '"POLITICAL CORRECTNESS" 
HITS ZETA R.ETICULI THERE 
All pr icespar ooo
C MUsh onr
CMU ciet  RESEARCH -m.
(c) boj Sha^ Q, Knigi^f
rgzuduavdmlwed Feed
<Tjm :hvbse .t vpvTo <vg 
vhgev yc<SjShm iYwa Sm <Ig Ivg 
e<"a:y j/vg bv I<hv bjalC"q/a 
b< <"gcevh/vegN Iv ut< cWaw <"b 
<Ib< bv ?Cvhy j TCLT ?ivhi: 
.<jhe jy :eb"??C
'bs' je<ub bCuvC 
Ivs/v SvvI iyCj/: 
Nn bCe Sjbc<<u FoR HOUR.S
YAU&ER
w.ONTU
f<T TH MiFFLlKJ1 TartnS 6oAA.fc(?WE's 6uoATifJ<=>.
IVe t)oio rr! iVfc 
L-O vakIiteP Tue PiP A^ 
rrj Mifo^TV <XTY
CofiA)PrT]OHl
bOOp-ic 
$i7eu 
He'LA^ 
l^fTVL
EsrATfc
/ |VE twnj applHouSA^Oi aF
[ 5^ Dt>Z,6^S
I 0i hjl PlVarev\ M^rPg io
V_ Trtg i^cgSS'
Aw) YcnA. /Vu_ fcu&tevU
f/VMC> oJ Pe> tlTD ou\) f
i -shovJeD Vu(; u.. .
-flu. KAPLNIO CMU., ifn/l*-> n> " OMT//06tEt) 

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Break 1996
TRAVEL FREEH
Jamaica. Cancun, Bahamas 
Panama City, Pavtona. Padre 
** Great low, low prices 
** Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE 
information 
'~~7Vr ' oacket ! m Sun Splash Tours 
1-800-426-7710
Thank you
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
Earn over $80 each 
Call 624-9106
On behalf of the thousands of people who will benefit from 
your contribution to the 1992 United Way campaign.
Every day, your gift is making a difference in someone's life, 
Thank you for your generosity.
United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania 
1992 campaign total: $34.3 million.
Unibed my
The best investment 
in your hometown
Whew, ow! Its time to do it. Graduate, find a new reality, 
and get started with a career. We can help. Talk with us at 
our information session.
First USA Informaiioii Session 
February 21 
Time: 7-9PM 
Place: Student Center 203
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT 
SUrTES INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, 
CABLE MOVIES, FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND 
RESERVED PARKING.
This is a really good move for smart, anaylitica! thinkers. 
(Thats who we employ and thats who has taken us into a 
leading position in the credit card industry - now with over 
12.9 million MasterCard and Visa Cardmembers.)
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 
2 BLOCKS FROM WALNUT STREETS 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 
12 DELICIOUS RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN A HOTEL ROOM
CilspfmP5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232 
PHONE: 441-4444 
INTERNET: http://tig.com/Pittsburgh/SUITE LOCATION
ndustrial IVJ.anagement\ Melln 
Dean's List Fall 1995 \
vuNormarina Ahmad* 
Kristine Bonaim* 
Edmond Fong* 
Eduardo Garza* 
Michael Goettsche* 
Jason Grieder* 
Bobby Gujavarty* 
Hayden Hartland* 
Lisa Hung*
Sangita Jinwala 
Mark Kasperowicz* 
Sean Keane*
Robert Locke*
James Mason
Jacqueline King* 
Holly Miller* 
Bobby Mukherjee* 
Olivia Raharja* 
Sylvia Raharja* 
Jonathan Schoen 
Wee Lin Sim* 
Matthew Simon* 
Hendrick Sin* 
Philip Swire 
Ananda Thananart 
Porter Welch*
Jian Yu*
Scott ZawitzAll current residents who
want to live in UniversityMichelle Allen* 
Leslie Brown* 
Katherine Chang* 
Joshua Curtin 
Timothy Faulkner* 
Dominick Frollini* 
Robert Hamady 
Douglass Hudson 
Amit Kar*
Leticia Kathol 
Kenneth Kraemer*
Sharda Krishnappa 
Larissa Longnecker* 
Cem Mimaroglu 
Humza Naviwala* 
Noritoshi Sano 
Chintan Shah*
Craig Snethen 
Brian Vasquez 
Calvin Yao 
I ei Zhang
Housing
Housing Deposits areDianne Bae 
John Bae*
Hsiang Chen* 
Kwokchi Cheunk* 
Meredith Knezek
John Stephan* 
Kimberly Umeda 
Chauncey Upson 
Sofia Zuberi
Sarah Campen*;; 
Lin Dai 
Kyle Dupre* 
Tamara Gabriel* 
Gustavo Ioschpe
Sue Kwon 
Rishav Mehra 
Chin-Chiang Wang 
Latoya Williams
High Honors

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 February 1996DIVERSIONS
Latest production of Yerma leaves critic unsatisfied
Jason Seigendorf/ Tartan Photo Editor 
Actress Holly Hunters name can be seen 
on the green room wall.
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan. Staffwriter
Of the many flaws of Federico Garca 
Lorcas Yerma, the one that is most 
noticeable, and most annoying, is the 
dialogue. Its impossible for me to say 
whether this is the fault of Lorca himself 
or of the translator, Lourdes De la Rosa 
Benedicto (who also plays the title role), 
or both. At any rate, the play constantly 
bombards us with lines like, In a man, 
must I look only for the man and nothing 
else?
First, I have no idea what this means. 
Second, people do not talk like that! The 
arguments in Yerma (which are too great 
in number and consistently loud and 
weepy) sound more like shouted presi
dential debates; each character waits
for the other to finish before releasing 
their own tirade of emotion, and nothing 
ever seems to be solved.
Yerma is an unhappy woman in an 
unhappy marriage who wants to raise 
unhappy children. Alas, she is incapable 
of conceiving, and her husband, Juan 
(David Metz), is firmly against the no
tion anyway.
But Yerma lives in a world where 
youre not a real woman unless you can 
give birth to and raise as many children 
as possible, as she is often told by the 
gossipy women around town.
It seems a difficult premise for a 90s 
audience to swallow, but I didnt even 
reach that step of consideration because 
I didnt care about Yerma from the very 
beginning.
The opening scene sets the tone: tear
ful melodrama with some musical inter
ludes. Yerma starts to fight with Juan 
over the same issue about which they 
will spend the rest of the play fighting: 
their lack of children. Then she sud
denly bursts into a mostly Spanish song 
that merely recounts the feelings shes 
already expressed and adds nothing to 
the narrative.
This is true of all the musical pieces, 
but most especially the penultimate 
scenes disturbing, frenetic, allegorical, 
half-bullfighting, half-religious proph
ecy song-and-dance.
It is just plain weird, and when its 
over, the characters simply go back to 
what they were doing (in Yermas case, 
descending into a madness of Blanche 
DuBois proportions, but without the 
believability or sympathy that Tennes
see Williamss characters command), 
had no idea what to make of this sceneand it felt like the actors had the same 
reaction.
In fact, no one on the stage seemed 
particularly comfortable with the play. 
Movements were stilted, listening was 
erratic, and there were many pauses 
between lines that would make even 
Harold Pinter wince.
The two elements that did work.quite 
nicely were the sets, designed by Juli^ 
Aquino, and the lighting, designed by 
Michael T. Cummings. This seems odd 
since the sets were essentially quite 
simple, while the lighting effects were 
very elaborate. But it all somehow came 
together and created a convincing and 
magical atmosphere for the play. It seem^ 
a shame that no one else was on boardi
Sets for Kresge productions are created in the scene shop.
Jason Seigendorf/ Tartan Photo Editor 
Graduate student Craig Choma shows a model of a set piece.
Courtesy of Kresge Theatre 
Lourdes De la Rosa Benedicto plays the title character in Yerma.
Kresge tradition enriches campus culture
Kresge reveals backstage secrets
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
To some, the theater is a magical world 
full of sights, sounds, costumes, and 
words. To others it is a world full of 
synthetic smells, loud noises, and exces
sive amounts of wood. The latter, the 
view CMU Drama students face, is the 
world behind the stage at Kresge The
atre.
The students here work hard the 
minute they land on campus to the 
minute they leave, four years later, 
said MFA directing student Joe Deer. 
We make sure everyone knows every
thing: lighting, design, costumes. All of 
this hearty work begins in the design 
offices. Here students use AutoCAD and 
other design programs to lay out stages, 
lights, and set designs. However, the 
students dont always lean on the crutch 
of their computers. All must learn draft
ing and artistic design. After these flat 
representations are made, designers 
build small, realistic models of what the 
finished sets will look like.
The drama season is laid out in ad
vance by a council of faculty, who then 
assign the students to various positions. 
For instance, in the upcoming musical
She Loves Me, graduate designer Craig 
Choma was given the task of creating 
detailed scenic designs. However, his 
previous duties have included costume 
design, painting, and general grunt 
work.
After the models are prepared, the 
sets are planned and built. In a sawdustfilled room, drama students cut wood, 
luon, and foam into unusually complex 
shapes. The workshop is very sparse, 
as compared to larger shops, said Deer. 
But the department puts handicaps on 
the students to help them design with 
imagination.
Most of the dramats wear worn clothes 
and a harried expression. This expres
sion is further augmented by the won
ders of the paint shop.
Here the sets are intricately painted 
and finished. Fine wood grains are pro
duced with a minimum of supplies. Me
tallic stages are built out of two by fours 
and silver paint. In fact, the paint shop 
is the main area where the trompe doeil 
of theatre is produced.
Finally, the sets are hauled up to the 
green room, a garage-like space where 
they are prepared to be placed on the 
stage. The walls of this room are covered 
with the names and dates of nearly ev
ery production that has gone up be
tween Kresges hallowed pillars. Its 
on-the-job training and vocational, the 
work we do here, said Deer. From the 
size and impressive girth of most of the 
set pieces, the casual observer would 
expect a team of burly teamsters to do 
the work that the drama students turn 
out.
Overall, the backstage of the Kresge 
theatre is a little bit dirty, a little bit 
crowded, and quite a bit impressive. 
From the wood-cutter to the high and 
mighty designer, each phase of the pro
duction is the result of a great deal of 
teamwork.
Graduate students have formed a 
close-knit bunch, said Deer. The stu
dents get a lot done together.
Next time you watch a play like the 
upcoming Yerma, think of the time you 
built a birdhouse or something even 
more impressive in shop. Then think of 
how much work it was: sanding, paint
ing, measuring birds to find the right 
diameter of hole. Finally, up the scale to 
the size of a large home and the time to 
complete it all to one month. Now you 
have a yardstick with which to measure 
the work of Drama students behind the 
Kresge productions.
ua.
? CUWSCft
ut*. fivnj/.K'i
Jason Seigendorf/ Tartan Photo Editort 
The green room wall Is covered with the names of stage crew members.
Jason Seigendorf/ Tartan Photo Editor 
The Kresge stage awaits opening night.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996
Must see TV makes mediocre impression
On The Tube
by Dan Rosenberg
. JSvery Thursday, more than one-third 
of Americans who are watching TV have 
their television sets on NBC. The five 
shows that make up this enormously 
popular lineup are usually the highestrated series of the week. Are the shows 
really that good? Well, two are.
. Jh'e evening begins with Friends, un
doubtedly the most overrated show on 
the.air. Dont get me wrong, Friends is 
a mildly amusing series with appealing 
characters and witty writing, but it is 
nob .the masterpiece many viewers and 
critics claim it is. Both Entertainment 
Weekly and People magazines named it 
the best series of the year, and the latter 
had the audacity to compare the sitcom 
tflECheers. Friends is a respectable show 
tliat provides occasional laughs, but 
watching Brooke Shields lick Matt 
LeBlancs hand or seeing David 
Sehwimmer in a dual role is not a pleas
ant experience.
''Following Friends is one of the worst 
pfijjframs on the air: the completely un
original The Single Guy. Guy's premise 
i&:'imple: a younger version of Seinfeld 
with George and Elaine married (to other 
people) and Kramer as an elderly door
man. Jonathan Silverman is annoyingly
smug in the title role and the writing is 
nothing short of pathetic. Guy is cur
rently the weakest link in the lineup, 
losing about a quarter of its lead-ins 
audience. Hopefully, that will assure 
the series a one-way ticket to cancella
tion.
At 9:00 comes Seinfeld, the best sitcom 
of the decade. Last season, the program 
lost some momentum with a series of illconceived plot lines, but has rebounded 
and is once again in top form. Granted, 
I doubt that there will be any episodes as 
wonderful as The Parking Garage and 
The Contest, but recent episodes like 
The Soup Nazi are cer
tainly some of the se
ries best. In addition,
half hour that does not deserve its pre
cious time slot. The only redeeming fac
tor about Caroline is its star, Lea Th
ompson, who does possess some charm. 
Unfortunately, that is not enough to 
make her program watch-able.
The evening peaks at 10:00 with ER, 
the most popular dramatic series of the 
decade. Every hour is an electrifying 
viewing experience, featuring excellent 
writing, superb direction, taut editing, 
and a competent cast. ER did not start 
offthis good, however. Its pilot was poorly 
staged and its initial episodes lacked 
character development: Yet as the show 
matured, the characters be
came more dynamic and 
the show became more
Seinfeld possesses one of the best come
dic ensembles in television history. What 
more can one ask for in a sitcom?
Hoping to ensure at least one success
ful rookie, NBC scheduled Caroline in 
the City after Seinfeld, the networks 
highest rated sitcom. Unfortunately, like 
The Single Guy, Caroline is an insipid
exciting. Bonus points for the recent 
addition of Laura Innes to the cast as the 
antagonistic chief resident. She makes a 
perfect foil.
Friends: B-. The Single Guy: D. 
Seinfeld: A-. Caroline in the City: C-. 
ER: A.
Braveheart, II Postino battle in LA for Oscar
LAS VEGAS, Feb. 15 (AP)  Mel 
Gibsons medieval epic Braveheart 
and the Italian film II Postino are a 
Las Vegas bookies favorites to win 
the Oscar for Best Picture in what 
he says is one of the widest-open 
races in years.
Lenny Del Genio is placing a bogus 
even-money bet that either of those 
films will take home an Oscar when 
the 68th annual Academy Awards are 
handed out March 25.
His predictions came following 
Tuesdays announcement of the nomi
nations, although the predictions are 
made simply for entertainment pur
poses because the casinos dont take 
bets on the Oscars.
All the categories are pretty close 
and best actress, for example, could be 
won by any of the five nominees, said 
Del Genio, a vice president at Ballys 
hotel-casino in Las Vegas.
Del Genio said there were some 
pretty startling nominations, namely 
that of II Postino, the first foreignlanguage film nominated for Best Pic
ture since 1973. Its star, Massimo 
Troisi, died the day after filming was 
completed and has become the first 
actor nominated posthumously for an 
Oscar since 1984.
Del Genio listed Gibson and Michael 
Radford of II Postino as even-money 
favorites for best director, and 
Elisabeth Shue of Leaving Las Vegas 
and Meryl Streep in The Bridges of 
Madison County are his co-favorite 
even-money bets for best actress.
Nicolas Cage in Leaving Las Vegas 
is the favorite for best actor and Ed 
Harris in Apollo 13 is the favorite for 
best supporting actor. Joan Allen in 
Nixon and Mira Sorvino in Mighty 
Aphrodite are the co-favorites for best 
supporting actress.
Apollo 13 is Del Genios 3-1 favorite 
for best picture, followed by Sense and 
Sensibility as a 5-1 bet and Babe as a 
81 bet.
Troisi is a 6-5 bet for best actor, 
Anthony Hopkins in Nixon is a 3-1 
bet, Richard Dreyfus s in Mr. Hollands 
Opus is an 8-1 bet, and Sean Penn in 
Dead Man Walking is a 10-1 bet.
Susan Sarandon in Dead Man Walk
ing is a 6-5 bet for best actress, Emma 
Thompson in Sense and Sensibility is 
a 3-1 bet, and Sharon Stone in Casino 
is a 51 bet.
Kevin Spacey in The Usual Sus
pects is a 6-5 bet for best supporting 
actor, James Cromwell in Babe is a 
51 bet, Brad Pitt in 12 Monkeys is 
an 8-1 bet, and Tim Roth in Rob Roy 
is a 10-1 bet.
Del Genios bets for best support
ing actress are as follows: 6-5 for 
Kate Winslet in Sense and Sensibil
ity, 8-1 for Kathleen Quinlan in 
Apollo 13, and 10-1 for Mare 
Winningham in Georgia.
Mike Figgiss directing in Leaving 
Las Vegas earned him a 6-5 bet, 
while Chris Noonan of Babe is listed 
as a 4-1 bet for best director and 
Tim Robbins of Dead Man Walking 
is an 81 bet.
Phipps implements new programs
Tartan file Photo
Floral designs and exquisite foilage create an incredible display at Phipps Conservatory.
By ZULEKHA SPENCER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
. A two-part educational pro
gram is currently being ex
panded and refined at the 
Phipps Conservatory. The two 
parts consist of structured ac
tivities focusing independently 
on children and adults.
When describing the pur
pose for Phipps educational 
pi'ogram, Robert Alexander, 
the Head of Phipps educational 
program, said, Our goal is to 
promote the beauty and diver
sity of exotic plants to the com
munity. "The childrens educa
tional program works in 
conjuction with educational 
facilities such as schools, day
cares and scout groups. 
Alexander described one activ
ity during which Phipps repre
sentatives went to a local school 
to talk about conservation and 
the'importance of plants to the 
earth. Each child was given an 
Apple which represented the 
'eatth. As the children began to 
sfedtion the apple they were 
taught about fractions and 
when 1/32 of the apple re
mained, lectures explained 
that this was the fraction of 
fertile land currently available 
for growing food on the earth.
For the adult portion of the 
educational program, Phipps 
is working in conjuction with 
;the Community College of 
Alleghany County and offering 
; several classes such as Photog
raphy at Phipps. In addition to 
these stuctured activities, Phipps 
has many opportunities in which 
students can involve themselves 
with the educational programs. 
For example, students are build
ing a childrens garden, sched
uled to openon July 11 of this 
year, next to the existing Victo
rian glasshouse. Phipps is re
cruiting Discovery Garden Am
bassadors to be involved in such 
activities as leading tours and 
helping to develop specialized 
programs. In addition, Phipps 
plans to employ independent 
contractors to put together 
evening and weekend pro
grams.
Phipps also plans to hire 
classical musicians to perform 
on the weekends. Students in
terested in these activities or 
just interested in becoming in
volved with the Phipps in gen
eral can contact Robert 
Alexander, Head of Education, 
at <.412)-622-6915, x 6925.
Another feature of the Con
servatory are its seasonal 
shows, perfect for all ages. 
Freddy Anzures, an industrial 
design major, recently visited 
Phipps Conservatory.
He was impressed by how 
natural the environment in 
Phipps seemed despite the fact 
that it is an enclosed space. 
Phi pps spring flower show will 
begin on March 16 and is en
titled A Symphony of Colors 
in honor of the 100th year anni
versary of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony. The Symphony and 
Phipps are goingto have many 
joint activities.
These new educational pro
grams and special events add 
to theconservatorys already 
breath-taking charm,
Phipps is open Tuesday 
through Sunday from 9 am to 5 
pm. Admission is $3 regularly 
and$3.50during shows for stu
dents with ID.
Dead Man gets killer review
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
When does life cease to be life 
and transmute into something 
entirely different? This is the 
question asked in Dead Man 
Walking, a film directed by Tim 
Robbins and starring Susan 
Sarandon as Sister Helen 
Prejean, a nun in Louisiana, and 
Sean Penn as Matthew Poncelet, 
a man on death row.
What: Dead Man 
Walking 
Director: Tim Robbins 
Company: Gramercy 
Pictures
Centered around Sister 
Prejeans real life, the movie docu
ments her struggle to help 
Poncelet. After he writes a letter 
asking to see her, she drives to 
the state prison and visits him. 
The remainder of the film con
cerns her efforts to take Poncelet 
off of death row and an inner 
quest to find out why she even 
wants to help him. This question 
is particularly hard to answer 
since he has committed such a 
despicable crime  the brutal 
killing and raping of two young 
lovers.
Prejean is put into a difficult 
position after deciding to help the 
killer, as friends and family ques
tion her motives. Nevertheless, 
she continues working to free 
Poncelet, even after speaking
with the victims parents, who 
are incensed, to say the least. It 
seems as if the case has sparked 
a belief in her that the death 
penalty is wrong, and this is what 
dominates her character.
Both Sarandon and Penn turn 
in fine performances, but where 
this movie really succeeds is in 
generating sympathy for the 
killer. By its conclusion, Dead 
Man Walking has its audience 
feeling sympathy for a man full 
of hate. It accomplishes this 
partly through the exploitation 
of scenes with his family, but 
mostly through exposure to the 
innermost confines of his soul. 
As Poncelet, Penn is the movies 
focus, and it is well deserved. 
He conveys the raw anger and 
hate of his character well, bring
ing the audience in and holding 
them with a glimpse into the 
mind of a killer.
Poncelet is a terrifying figure: 
a man who didnt stop to think 
about what he was doing when 
killing a man and raping a 
woman, a man who blames his 
motivation on drugs, an older man 
and everything else, a man who 
enjoys the brotherhood of the 
Aryan Nation. However, through 
the twists and turns of the plot, 
he amazingly enough ends up
partially redeemed as a victim of 
circumstance.
Sarandon is convincing as the! 
nun who takes a chance on Penns. 
Poncelet, but the performance is 
nothing particularly extraordi-1; 
nary.
Perhaps her finest moment is;! 
when she considers what she had;: 
gotten herself into by advocatingclemency for Poncelet. It is intro-1 
spective scenes such as thesei! 
which highlight the conflict? 
within her character.
My only gripe about this movie!; 
is an overuse of flashbacks. Re-j 
peatedly throughout her visits to; 
Poncelet, Sister Prejean appar-]: 
ently has visions of what she pic--; 
tures the crime scene to havei! 
looked like.
As the story develops, we are:; 
treated to these same sights,.-; 
which although clarifying the;; 
plot progression, are unneces-; 
sary. They become tedious soon;; 
after the second flashback, and'i 
wind up being annoying, de
tracting from the brute force of*j 
the picture.
Despite this minor problem,); 
what Dead Man Walking gives'; 
the moviegoer is a dose ofjj 
thought-provoking questions J 
about a topic usually not given || 
much consideration.
|.N.P'OT. E'OXTAH
Wiba7ONcAC' |NOii wHMB
College memories can last a life7* time, when theyre preserved in a 
Balfour Class Ring. Sports, 
academics, degrees, years of 
graduation and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your 
Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1913!
Wednesday & Thursday 
February 21 & 22 
10:00  3:00 pm 
Baker Hall 
$35.00 deposit
Balf Olin., No me remembers in so manyways.
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
SEDONA Systems Corporation, a well capitalized 
start-up company located in Scottsdale, AZ, has 
developed an internet based document 
communications system which will be marketed by 
several major telecommunications and computer 
companies. Business partners now include IBM, 
MCI and Fujitsu, with initial product introductions 
scheduled for this summer. We need to rapidly 
expand our engineering staff and currently have 
openings for qualified software engineers. 
Requirements include a B.S. in Computer Science 
with experience in large scale software integration 
for distributed systems. Internet standards experi
ence with a working knowledge of Windows or 
Macintosh operating systems. Compensation in
cludes competetive saleries, founder stock options, 
full relocation reimbursement and flexible working 
hours. Qualified individuals should FAX their 
resumes to SEDONA Systems Corporation at 
602-970-3745. All responses will be kept strictly 
confidential.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  19 February 1996M
Wy 44nS
movies you may have seen before.
By RYAN DONOVAN
Thursday, February 22
Sunset Boulevard
This movie is about this wacko actress (theres a 
stretch  crazy actresses, nah!) played by Joan 
Crawford or Gloria Swanson or somebody. She does 
a lot of wacky things, double parks, runs with 
scissors, you know the types. Eventually she falls in 
love with a guy who tows her car. I never thought 
that technique actually worked on women. I tried it 
once and she called the cops on me. Go figure.
Sunset Boulevard is probably nothing like Sunset 
Heat starring Michael Parre and Dennis Hopper, 
where Michael Parre has sex with a hot-looking 
redhead. Sunset Boulevard wont have any sex with 
redheads. So go see it anyway, and take one of those 
dramat types.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, February 23
Seven
Ah, the seven deadly sins. How it warms my heart 
to contemplate them. Theres Pride, Avarice, Wrath, 
Grumpy, Sneezy, and Doc. Seven is all about the 
true story of how the seven deadly dwarfs ran into 
Cinderella and started a big, old ruckus. And we 
cant forget everyones favorite, Lust. They all go to 
this cottage near Copenhagen, kill some woodland 
creatures, and ... wait a minute, this isnt right.
Sorry to deceive you, but there are no dwarfs in 
this movie. There are some short people, and there 
might be a guy named Doc, but no dwarfs. Just a lot 
of good wholesome fun with Satan and the rest of the 
brood of hell, including Brad Pitt. Go see it with one 
of the undead legions.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, February 24
The Hunt for Red October
This is one of those seasonal movies, about Rus
sian life in October, starring Sean Connery and Alec 
Baldwin. Everyones running around, doing all sorts 
of kooky things, looking for this ship. Honestly, I 
dont see whats so special about this crappy little 
ship. The Minnow was lost for, what, five years, and 
no one so much as lifted a finger. I bet if Gilligan saw 
this movie, there would be coconuts a-flying, let me 
tell you. People still look for the Titanic and its been 
sunk for years. Life aint fair, I tell ya.
Remember, while the movie is in motion, please 
fasten your seatbelts, and in case of a water landing, 
your seat can be used as a flotation device. Feel free 
ask for coffee, tea, or soft drinks, but I doubt youll 
get them.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, February 25
Them!
This! is about these! and those! which do this! 
stuff. Its really about these killer pronouns from 
outer space. They (also referred to as them, as the 
title implies) invade and replace everyone with 
indirect objects. Theres this great scene with a 
dangling participle. Oh, and I think there are a lot 
of ants in this flick. Really, really big ants. Scary, 
huh? They probably spoil a lot of picnics, maybe 
chew a little wood, and then they eat somebody 
covered in honey.
Check this movie out, because with a title like that, 
this has to be something. Make sure to step on a lot 
of bugs before and after the movie. They deserve it.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
John Biggs is on sabbatical for two weeks.
gTCXA rNOU bMbNMbTi |ka TON.HT
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The weird, twisted, demented 
story is not a modern invention. 
People were writing these stories 
at least around the time of World 
War II. Case in point: 27 Wagons 
Full of Cotton.
This play revolves around a 
rural southern couple, Jake 
Meighan (James Babson) and 
Flora Meighan (Sarah Roberts). 
They live on a small farm planta
tion in Mississippi, where Jake 
gins cotton for a living.
Lately, though, he hasnt been 
getting much work, because the 
Syndicate plantation has been 
buying up all the land around 
and has acquired a gin of its own 
gin as well.
The play opens with Jake and 
Flora inside their house, giggling. 
Jake heads outside to do some
thing, but ends up driving off 
without saying as much as howdo-you-do to his wife.
Then theres an explosion and 
a fire, and thats where all the fun 
finally begins.
I enjoyed this play quite a bit. 
The entire play takes place on
ing. I really wouldnt want to 
know any of them, but it was a lot 
of fun watching them interact on 
stage, especially when they were 
all portrayed so well. Jake is the 
most raw, stereotypically SouthSilva Vicarro, played by James An
thony Carpinello, was such a slimeball, I was glad he and his riding 
switch were up on the stage and not 
in the audience. 
Meighans front porch, which 
though sparse, was a great set. It 
is just a porch: a swing sus
pended from the roof, a window 
hanging in space, a door, and 
some cloth strung behind it all as 
a backdrop.
The characters were outstandem bastard to grace a stage. Flora 
is a nervous ditz (at one point she 
says, Im no good at thinking, 
Im too lazy to think), always 
being skittish around the other 
characters (though she does have 
good reason). Silva Vicarro, 
played by James Anthony
Carpinello, was such a slimeball, 
I was glad he and his riding switch 
were up on the stage and hot in 
the audience.
The basis of the story is a biCof 
an exchange between Jake 
Meighan and Silva Vicarro. 'ft 
isnt a normal exchange though, 
and is never explicitly stated in 
the play. The exchange isljo 
implicit, not even Jake knows tRe 
full deal. It involves a lot of weird 
mind games and some violence 
and sex.
My one complaint is the end
ing. They only hint at whafctihe 
play leads up to in a portion1 of 
conversation between Silva and 
Flora, which makes this ending a 
bit weak. Not only that, blitit 
was probably the least interest
ing thing that occurred*in 
thestudio production.
If this play ever comes around 
again (unfortunately, I think the 
last performance was Saturday)) 
try to catch it.
Mr. Wrong leaves critic looking for Mr. Right
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
When I think of Mr. Wrong, I 
think of Kato Kaelin. Fortu
nately, he was not in this movie. 
Instead, Mr. Wrong stars Bill 
Pullman as Mr. Wrong himself. 
Ellen DeGeneres plays Martha 
Allston, a somewhat-neurotic 
thirty-something producer of a 
daytime talk show that is a per
fect rip-off of the Regis and Kathy 
Lee show.
What: Mr. Wrong 
Director: Nick Castle 
Company: Touchstone 
Pictures
Martha is lonely and one of 
those always-a-bridesmaidnever-a-bride types. She meets 
Whitman Crawford (Bill Pull
man) in a bar one night and they 
instantly fall head-over-heels in 
love. At first, he seems like Mr. 
Right.
This fantasy lasts until she 
informs him that it is okay for 
him to be himself. From that 
point on, life is all downhill for 
Martha. Whitmans real self is 
less like Mr. Right and more like 
Mr. Disaster. When she realizes 
that he is not the man of her 
dreams and tries to break things 
off, Whitman does his best to 
prove his love for her. His antics 
range from bombarding her with 
strange gifts to breaking his own 
finger. Who would have thought 
that Ellen could make such a 
smooth transition from network
TV to the Hollywood big screen? 
Well, not me, because she really 
doesnt. Her character in Mr. 
Wrong is much like the character 
on her TV show Ellen, but on a
Still, her character has a cute 
and quirky demeanor that shi
nes through at different points of 
the film.
I must admit that this movie
U N**^ -'VkYx
Ellen DeGeneres in Mr. Wrong makes a smooth transition from TV to 
the Hollywood big screen.
smaller scale. If youve never 
watched the show, her perfor
mance might seem moderately 
fresh, but if you have seen it 
before, her style is a bit tiresome.
did make me laugh out loud nu
merous times. This is more sig
nificant if you know that it takes 
quite a bit to make me laugh out 
loud at any movie. There are some
hilarious lines and scenes that jn 
and of themselves make, the 
movie worth watching. The prob
lems in the movie, howeverj-aare 
nearly as large as the laughs that
I got from it. ^
The entire time I got the sense 
that Mr. Wrong just didnt knp;w 
what it wanted to be. At times,# 
seems to be an outrageous dark 
comedy, but at other times it falls 
into the fluffy formula of cookiecutter Touchstone romantic com
edy. The writing is inconsistent, 
and the very talented actors dont 
seem as though they really kno,w 
their characters.
I got the strong sense thjtt 
there was someone constancy 
standing behind the camra, 
telling Pullman and DeGener.es 
to tone it down.
If they had been allowed-to 
run amok and be the diverse, 
stlizd actors that they a:re, 
this would have been a much 
more complete film.
As an interesting sidebar, our 
very own senior drama major 
Tucker Christon was a produc
tion intern on the set this past 
summer. We watched it together. 
We laughed, we cried, we hurled.
Mr. Wrong is basically a good 
movie to watch at a Saturday 
matinee. I wouldnt recommend 
spending seven bucks on it,btit 
you wont feel as though "you 
wasted your time by watchmgj&fi. 
While the movie fails to break 
out of the ties that bind it into_a 
more timid film than it should be, 
it is good for quite a few laughs 
and will leave you with a few new 
ideas about the quest for love.
Landscape of the Body gives bone-chilling thrills
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Like most shows in the Studio Theatre, thist 7was a solid and entertaining production, 
skillfully acted and staged, considering the 
multiple locales and technical demands of 
the script.
Holahan (Joseph Upton). The 
play then takes us all over its 
time line, forward and backward, 
There is something about John to show us the events leading up 
Guares weirdness that is undeto Berts murder, 
niably appealing; something in But these events, and indeed 
the eccentricities of his characthe murder itself, finally seem 
ters, their stumbledupon moments of self
revelation, and the sur
realism of his situa
tions. Landscape of the 
Body is no exception.
In fact, at times its so 
out-there that we won
der whether weve 
missed something and 
pray for the moment of 
exposition that will fill ^ 
us in. secondary to the insights we reBut those moments almost ceive about Betty, whose life in 
never come, leaving the oddities Maine was innocent, timid and 
of the play to speak for themproper, as opposed to what its 
selves, unabashedly Landscape is become in New York: an exista kind of nor-ish murder mysence riddled with drugs, crime 
terycumbio-play,toborrowsome and pornography, 
film terms. It centers around Its difficult to say whether or 
Betty (Loren Rom), an out-ofnot this character exploration 
towner  to borrow a New York works effectively.
City term  who one day finds Bettys story is certainly enherself living in New York, and grossing, but there is also someabsorbing all of its seediness. thing missing  her transiHerl4-year-oldson,Bert(Fred tion, a character element that 
Koehler), is a thief and a muralways gives playwrights 
derer when shes not around. We trouble. We see in one scene, 
find out at the beginning of the where she has taken on her dead 
play that Bert has been murdered, sisters position at a travel 
then jump back in time to a bruagency, a Betty who is shy, withtal interrogation of Betty, the drawn, and terrified of the 
prime suspect, by Captain sexual advances and salesmantrickery put forth by her boss, 
Raulito (Juan Rivera). In the 
next scene, she is suddenly bois
terous, promiscuous and lewd.
The play almost comes off as 
an anti-New York City piece, es
pecially considering the final
scene: Betty is on a ferry, leaving 
New York to start a new life, and 
what should she find but a conve
niently placed, handsome and 
cunning man from earlier in the derer seem to be Guares gloomy 
play, who is prepared to sweep testaments to the realities of New 
her off her feet. York City. Maybe we should ail
Is this a play about a character go to Los Angeles, instead. ;
FEMALES 18-25APARTMENTS
UNLIMITEDEarn $15Studios 
1 & 2 Bedrooms
Participate in a blood1 3 Bedrooms
pressure study. No blood' 3 Bedrooms \v/ den t r 
will be taken & nothing isShadyside and ,;Ii:
painful!
Squirrel Hill 
Call for further info.Call 383-2202(412) 521-7838University of PittsburghSpring, Summer, Fall, Occupancy
whose actions are her undoing , 
and later her salvation? Or is4t 
about several characters and 
their passive absorbence of New 
Yorks immorality?
Like most shows in the Stu\ 
dio Theatre, this was a Irana 
and entertaining pro
duction, skillfully acted 
and staged, considering 
the multiple locales and 
technical demands of 
the script.
Particularly notewor
thy is Fred Koehler as 
Bert, whose antsy move
ments and naively cojatemptible speech paint 
an engaging portrait, ofa 
likable but misguided adolescent.
The manner in which Berths 
body is founddecapitated-^, as 
well as the revelation of the mur---------------------------------------------------

Nfgf372
Free advertising for events! Sub
mit calendar entries to emu@andrew 
over email, or call The Tartan office 
at 268-2111. Announcements are 
due Wednesday before print date to 
ensure publication. Entries should 
be succinct and list contact numbers.
Submit Vox Populi entries over email 
to emu@andrew. Anonymous entries 
can be submitted in the Vox Populi 
box onto the Tartan server. Submis
sions are due on Wednesday prior to 
print date. Contact emu@andrew to 
answer questions/ find details.
 INRi
Sunset Boulevard will play this Thursday in DH 
2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Seven will play this Friday in DH 2210 at 5,7:30, 
10 pm, and 12:30 am.
The Hunt for Red October will play this Satur
day in DH 2210 at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Them! will play in DH 2210 this Sunday at 6, 8, 
10 pm, and midnight.
The Carnegie Museum of Art (MO A) Depart
ment of Film and Video presents Knocks at my 
Door, director Alejandro Sadermans gripping 
portrayal of the moral dilemma confronting many 
small democracies in South and Central America. 
Knocks will run at 8:00 pm on Friday. On Satur
day and Sunday at 8:00 pm, Leonce Ngabos Gito 
the Ungrateful, one of the most popular African 
films in recent times, will be showing. Both 
movies will be showing at the MOA theatre.
Capillary action is COOL.
This is not a chawade...
Brad Pitt is a hotsy-totsy
Chuck and Ed are demi-gods. Well, 
maybe not Ed.
Congratulations to the Landscape cast 
and crew! You guys were the best.
j. -piano guy
I like cookies, said the town 
bishop.
Mustard uiell applied is a hot 
dog in the rough.
I like walnuts, said the fairy 
queen.
^ tod*
I like whole wheat and rye, said 
the Emu of the Eye.
Wahhhhhh!
Whooosh! went the whim
sical rhinocerous to the poi
gnant tree sloth...
Womens Basketball will be competing away 
against the University of Rochester this Saturday 
at 2 pm.
Mens Basketball will be competing right here at 
CMU against Thiel College at 7:30 pm on Thurs
day, and away against the University of Rochester 
this Saturday at 4 pm.
Mens and Womens Indoor Track will be com
peting away against Slippery Rock Universty this 
Saturday.
Mens and Womens Swimming will be compet
ing in the UAA Championships at Washington 
University this Wednesday through Saturday.
Brad Pitt Is sweaty, bruised, and mean in Seven, playing 
The Forbes Gallery presents the works of 
CMU seniors Chris Craychee, Andrew Nau, and 
Steve Shaw. Their works will be on display 
from this Tuesday through Sunday. There will 
be a reception on Friday from 7-9 pm. All are 
welcome.
The Heinz Architechtural Center presents A 
Century of Women Landscape Architects and 
Gardeners in Pittsburgh, February 20 through 
June 2,1996. This exhibition will highlight 
several women who worked in the Pittsburgh 
region. Guest curated by Judith Hull, the show 
features original drawings of landscape designs 
supplemented by photographs.
this Friday in DH2210.
Borders Books and Music will be hosting a 
poetry forum on Tuesday, hosted by Jan Beatty 
of WYEPs Prosody program. Ms. Beatty will 
be reading the works of local poets. For more 
information, call 854-BOOK.
The National Conference of Christians 
and Jews will be hosting an Interfaith Lun
cheon this Thursday at noon in the Reflections 
Room of the Sheraton in Station Square. 
Registration is $20 per person. For more 
information, call 281-1237.
The University of Oslo announces the 50th 
session of the Oslo International Summer 
School (ISS), running from June 22 to August 2 
on the Blindem Campus of the University of 
Oslo in Norway. For application materials or 
other information, write to Oslo Summer 
School, do St. Olaf Coliege, Northfield, MN 
55057-1098, or call 1-800-639-0058.
Sally Ride, the first American female astronaut 
in space, will be speaking at the Carnegie Science 
Center on Thursday. Dr. Ride is a professor of 
physics at UC-San Diego. Her video-slide presen
tation is entitled To Space and Back: A Pioneers 
Perspective. For more information, call Sheila 
Fisher at 661-6796.
*'T
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts The Week
end Factory, named after Warhols studios in 
New York City. Free with Museum admission, 
the Weekend Factory is open Saturdays and 
Sundays from 12 pm to 4 pm. The studio is 
located in the Museum Underground. For more 
information, call 237-8300.
A Century of Exploration and Collection, an
exhibit celebrating the Carnegie Museums 
centennial year, will be on view beginning 
January 27. The exhibit traces 100 years of 
scientific activities through 80 artifacts selected 
for historical significance. Call the Museum at 
622-3361 for more information.
Birds and Beasts of Ancient Latin America,
a new traveling exhibit exploring the relation
ship between humans and animals in the PreColumbian world, will be on view at the Carn
egie Museum of Natural History January 27 
April 14 in the Changing Exhibits Gallery. For 
more information, call 622-3361.
The Art Warehouse presents For the Love of 
Flowers, a unique display of one-of-a-kind florals 
in various mediums that will last forever. These 
flowery delights will be on display from Febru
ary 14 through March 10 at the Art Warehouse, 
Scenic Route 40 at Bennington Rd. in Hopwood, 
PA. For more information, call 439-1667.
The Hewlett Gallery presents Alchemical 
Blue, a mixed-media installation by Janet 
Towbin. Alchemical Blue will be on display from 
February 15 though March 9. Admission to the 
gallery is free.
ARC-Alleghenys Expressions art show will 
be on display at the Gateway Center Complex 
until February 29. This original and creative 
display features work by mentally challenged 
artists and represents the winners from the 
1995 Expressions competition. For more infor
mation, call AR-Allegheny Communications at 
322-6008.
Environ / Mentality, an exhibit featuring the 
works of Jill Anderson, Frank Ferraro, Alexi 
.Goodrich, Carlos Szembrek, Paul Vanouse, Jill 
Watson, and Anne Wolf, will be on display at the 
.Brew House Space 101, located at 2100 Mary 
Street, from February 9 through March 3. For 
more information, call 381-7767.
The Goodwill Literacy Initiative is looking 
for volunteers to help adults learn about reading, 
writing, and math. The tutor training sessions 
began in January. Call for more information at 
481-4836.
Join the CMU Ballroom Dancing Club to
stay in shape and have a terrific time. Learn to 
dance the waltz, fox-trot, tango, cha-cha, rumba, 
swing, and salsa. Classes are on Thursdays at 7 
pm and 9:30 pm in. the Drill Deck, Student 
Center. Singles and couples are welcome. Semes
ter fees are $15 for students, $25 CMU staff or 
alumni, $30 all others.
Connelley Technical Institute and Adult 
Education Center is looking for volunteers to 
tutor reading and/or math to adult students. 
Time and place will be accommodated to meet 
your schedule. Free training and materials are 
provided. If interested, please contact 338-3711.
The Coalition for Christian Outreach is
pleased to announce Jubilee 96, a three-day 
conference covering all aspects of Christian life 
as it applies to college students. The registration 
fee for this event, which takes place this week
end, is $75 for commuting and $120 for non
commuting students, $80 and $130 for non
students. For more information, call 363-3303.
The Beehive Reading Series presents the 
poetry of Ed Ochester and Judy Vojlmer this 
Thursday evening at the Forbes Beehive. There 
will be an open mike at 8 pm and the reading 
starts at 8:30. For more information, call Micki 
Myers at 441-2859.
Eb.OT'.
The Carnegie Mellon Department of 
Drama presents Yerma, a play by Federico 
Garca Lorca. Directed by MFA candidate 
Shoshana Partos, Yerma goes up Friday, 
February 16 and runs from February 17-24. 
Tickets are $10 for the general public and $5 for 
students and senior citizens. For more informa
tion, call 268-2407.
kCiY
WQED-FM, in celebration of Black History 
Month, presents the U.S. Marine Band Tribute 
to Black Composers this Friday at 11pm. Pieces 
to be aired on the show include Fela Sowandes 
African Suite, Marvin Curtits The City On 
the Hill, and many others.
Music on the Edge, the University of 
Pittsburghs new music series, presents the 
works of Paul Chihara and others on Tuesday 
at 8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium on 
the Pitt campus. Chihara is best known for his 
work on China Beach and Crossing Delancey. 
For more information about this concert and 
the Music on the Edge series, call 624-4125.
CMU AB Concerts presents legendary Cleve
land indie-rockers My Dad is Dead at Morewood Gardens Cafeteria with locals the Karl 
Hendricks Trio and Blunderbuss. The concert, 
which happens on Saturday at 8 pm, is free 
with a valid CMU ID, and $5 without.
