LEHIGH GAME 
VARSITY CLAN 
FRIDAY, FEB. 23(Ihr (lari an
JUNIOR PROM 
MUSIC HALL 
FRIDAY, FEB. 23
Ilf
VOL. XI. NO. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAFEB. 21, 1917
JUNIOR CLASS HOLDS PROM IN CITY'S 
MOST BEAUTIFUL HALL NEXT FRIDAY
FOUR SCHOOLS MEET IN LARGE I ASSEMBLIES IN MUSiC HALL
Night Students As Well As 
Day Students Will Con
veneS. H. Church Will 
Spsak
The second general assembly of the 
day students of the four schools was 
held in the Music Hall this morning 
at 10:30. The program for the morn
ing was prepared by Deans Breed 
and Bossange, who chose Col. Samuel 
Harding Church as the chief speaker. 
Col. Church is president of the board 
of trustees of the Institute. His sub
ject this morning was "The Obliga
tion of Knowledge.
The general assembly of all night 
students, to be held this evening, is 
similar in purpose to the day assem
bly. The night students, even more 
than the day students, need some
thing to co-ordinate their aims and 
activities. It is with this idea in 
mind that the Director has been 
chosen as the speaker for this even
ing. The aim of Dr. Hamerschlags 
talk will be to acquaint the night 
students, both men and women, with 
the work of the school, and with some 
of its aims and ideals. Particularly, 
the Director will show what part the 
night men have in the affairs of the 
school. Introductory to the Directors 
speech, there will be a short talk by 
Judge MacFarlane.
M. M. C. S. JUNIOR PROM 
SURPASSES OTHER YEARS
Lobby of the Administration 
Building Changed to Beau
tiful Dining Room
SCIENCE ORGANIZATION 
WORK MAKES PROGRESS
Commttees on Constitution 
ReportNew Secretary Is 
Elected
The Science Organization Commit
tee has held two meetings latelyone 
on Tuesday, the thirteenth, and the 
other on Monday, the nineteenth. At 
the iirst meeting, F. I. Lawson was 
elected secretary of the committee in 
place of M. C. Kinder, who has drop
ped out of school. Then the com
mittee heard a report from the sec
ond sub-committee concerning that 
part of the constitution which deals 
with the powers of the council. The 
report aroused, apparently endless 
discussion, and since the members of 
the committee are rather inexperi
enced in the matter of constitutions 
and legal phraseology, it seemed al
most impossible to agree on the word
ing of certain sections of the report. 
Finally the report was referred back 
to the sub-committee for further con
sideration. At the second meeting 
last Monday the other two commit
tees reported, and the same trouble 
was experienced with their reports.
The 1918 Junior Prom, was held 
Friday night, February 16, in Car
negie Union. The last Prom is al
ways the best, and in no way was that 
rule altered this year.. From an or
dinary, every-day club room the girls 
managed, by means of ferns, palms 
and potted flowers, to create a most 
attractive ball room, and with this 
setting and with the accompanyment 
of Oliver Riehls splendid Orchestra, 
the rainbow of girls dresses, and the 
general festive atmosphere, the charm 
and success of the affair was inevit
able.
Between 11 and 12 oclock a delight
ful supper was prettily served by 
Luther, on the first floor of the central 
building.
The committee responsible for the 
arrangements and success of the 
function was Elizabeth Mason, chair
man; Helen Hilary and Helen Senn, 
Rachael Beatty and Grace Crawford, 
together with their corps of capable
V V
Special Favors, Cotillion Dances, and 
Other Features Promised By Com
mitteeNirellas Orchestra to Play 
GREEN LEADS GRAND MARCH
assistants.
STUDENTS ACTIVITIES 
HOLD BUSY MEETING
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
LEAD IN REGISTRATION
The enrollment in the School of 
Applied Science shows the greatest 
number of students taking the course 
in mechanical engineering, with the 
electrical engineering course as the 
second most popular.
The distribution of students is:
Mechanical Engineering ................121
Electrical Engineering ....................108
Chemical Engineering ................... 75
Commercial Engineering................. 64
Civil Engineering ........................... 64
Metallurgical Engineering ............ 38
Mining Engineering ....................... 12
Sanitary Engineering .................. 5
Last Wednesdays meeting of the 
Board of Student Activities was 
rather more eventful than usual. In 
the first place, since M. S. Garber has 
dropped out of school, .it became 
necessary to elect a new manager for 
tho advertising bureau. The board 
decided to complete that matter at 
this time, and took up the written ap
plications which it had received. In 
addition Nelson P. Rice, one of the 
applicants, appeared before the board 
in person to state his experience. Af
ter considerable discussion the board 
elected Rice manager for the rest of 
the year.
The Choral Club renewed its re
quest that the board give them au
thority to produce the opera "Robin 
Hood, and advance the necessary 
money. Schtz, the president of the 
club, stated that the students would 
back such a production. Mr. Weber 
presented a budget, which totaled as 
follows: Cost of production, $760;
proceeds from house, $1,700. On this j 
authority the board decided that the 
club might proceed with the produc
tion, and assumed financial responsi
bility for any amount under $500. Con
sequently the Choral Clubs produc
tion of Robin Hood will occur some
time this spring.
Greulich, president of the Radio 
Club, appeared before the board to 
ask that his club be recognized as an 
activity under the board. He then 
asked permission from the board to 
sell the large aerial, which the club 
now owns, and to buy more apparatus 
with the proceeds. This change is 
desired by the club because only a few 
of the more expert operators can 
handle the large set, while smaller ap
paratus would be of benefit to all. The 
board authorized the change as rej 
quested, provided that the bureau of I 
supplies assured them that the old 
outfit would sell for $200.
The Annual Prom of the Science and Design junior class will 
be held for the first time in the history of the school in the Car
negie Music Hall at 9:30 p. m. next Friday evening. The com
mittee with L. Miller as chairman and consisting of J. B. Shumaker, 
II. C. Brockman, G. L. Morgan, II. P. Bremmer, L. M. Collins, L. K. 
Morrison and R. W. Spring has added several new features to the 
premier social event of the school year.
For several weeks the men, fortu
nate enough to be going, have been 
Counting over their spare change and 
mumbling to themselves "Five for a 
ticket, and two-fifty for a taxi, and the 
dickens knows what for a dress suit, 
etc.; but its going to be done! 
eral weeks the men, fortunate enough 
to be going, have been counting over 
their spare change and mumbling to 
themselves "Five for a ticket, and 
two-fifty for a taxi, and the dickens 
knows what for a dress suit, etc.; but 
its got to be done!
Wonder if I got. a shine on these 
old pumps, whether any one would 
notice it?
Do you think Ill need a new 
vest? "Naw, wear your gym shirt.
No one would notice it under that red 
thatch of yours.
And so on. But they would rather 
live on sentiment and boiled cabbage 
for a month than miss it. And not 
without reason, either, are they will
ing to do this, for this years Prom 
is not one of the ordinary three 
dozen in a bunch, six packages for a 
.quarter kind of things that the ordi
nary college calls the Junior Prom.
In tho first place, this Prom, is being 
held at Tech. Thats enough to put it 
in a class by itself. Then it being 
held in the Music Hall Foyerthat 
doesn't happen every day, either.
their ball room, if that were possible, 
has secured a generous supply of 
palms and ferns and flowers and 
plants from tho Phipps Conservatory, 
with which to decorate. Does that 
not auger well for tho enjoyment of 
the lover of beauty as he watches tho 
dancers glide through the figures of 
tho dance to the accompaniment of 
the orchestra, than which no hotter 
exists in Pittsburgh? For Nirella has 
furnished Herbert. Gilg and eight 
other artists to entrance tho oar and 
lighten the feet, and to spin, with tho 
magic of harmony, that enchanting 
and seductive web from which no 
dancer wishes to escape, nut would 
lovo to continuo forever.
Tho Grand March will commence at 
0:30 oclock and, led by tho president 
of the Junior Class of Design School, 
Ed. Green, tho guest of tho Junior 
classes, and tho classes thomsolvos, 
will dedicato the everting to pleasure 
and the night to dancing and joy. 
When fifteen numbers have provided 
portion of. tho. evening's entertainmont, Nierella will givo way to 
Kuhn that tho latter may sot before 
tho assembled guests the supper for 
which ho Is famous.
The ladles who will grace tho oc, 
casion by acting as patronesses aro 
Mrs. Bossango, Mrs. Looto, Mrs. HamVARSITY RETURNS FROM MOST SUCCESSFUL BASKETBALL TRIP
DRAMATIC PLEBES 
STAGE TWO PLAYS
First Productions Brings Out 
Excellent TalentLand of 
Hearts Desire Directed by 
Students
Besides, tho clmmittee, to further in-1 erschlag, Miss Breed, Mrs. Mott, 
crease the beauty and splendor of I {Continued on Page Two.)
PLEBES FAIL TO STOP DESIGN SOPH BANQUET
Mr. E. B. Lee, Guest of 
Honor, President Rice Was 
Toastmaster.
The Design Sophomores put one 
over, as the saying is, when they 
held their banquet last Tuesday even
ing without giving their deadly 
enemies, the Plebes, the slightest In
timation of their intention.
The Seventh Avenue Hotel was the 
scene of the successful culmination of 
their secret, well-arranged plans. At 
7 o'clock the Sophs congregated in the 
lobby of the hotel, and from there ad
journed to the festive board, escort
ing in their midst Mr. E. B. Lee, an 
architect of prominence, and one-time 
instructor in architecture at Tech. 
So completely in ignorance were the 
poor Plebes that, out of charity, the 
(Continued on Pace Four.
ALPHA TAU APPLIES FOR 
FRATERNITY CHARTER
Industries Honor Society to 
Be Incorporated
The Alpha Tau honorary fratornlty 
of tho School of Applied Industries, 
rocently filed in common pleas court 
before Judge James McF. Carpenter 
an application for a charter. The pur
pose of the organization, as given, is 
to support and further industrial and 
scientific education by admitting to 
membership only those students who 
have attained honorary scholastic 
standing. 
The directors named for the first I 
year are Prof. C. C. Leeds and Fred j 
J. Hartman of Pittsburgh, R. J. Wean I 
of Pottstown, Pa., R. J. Brocker of i 
Irwin, Pa., and C. K. ICoontz of 
Waynesboro, Pa.
It is expected that the charter wlF 
be granted before the commencement 
in June.
All things have their beginning. 
The Plebes of tho Dramatic Arts De
partment had theirs last Thursday af
ternoon, when they produced two 
plays about the Irish"The Land of 
I-Ioarts Desire, by W. B. Yeats, and 
The Flight of Deirre," an interlude 
from an Irish folk tale, by Thomas 
Wood Stevens. This beginning was, 
indeed, an auspicious one. In tho 
memory of tho writer it was the best 
exhibition of new talont that has yot 
boon witnessed In the school. The 
work of now students always cluillongos Interest, a sort of curious In 
t.erost in what tho young product can 
do. But there was nothing curious In 
tho performances Thursday. They 
woro loo smoothly and delightfully 
done for that. Instead, tho Intorosl: 
that was aroused was one of admira
tion and rospocttho sort of Interest 
that makes ono contomplato, with 
Icoon rolish, tho time when those now 
(Contlnuod on Pago Three.)
MRS. FISKE VISITS DESIGN SCHOOL THEATRE
Mrs. Flsko vlsltod tho Dramatic De
partment on Friday afternoon and 
watched tho rohearsal of ono act of 
Ibsen's "Pillars of Socloty. She was 
very much Interested In our school 
and what we are doing. She was es
pecially interested In our Ibsen play, 
as she played the part of Lona ITassol several years ago.
On Friday afternoon, February 23, 
at 4:30, two one-act plays will he 
glvon"The Doad Aro Dead, by tho 
upper class students, and "Holbein In 
Blackfrlars, by the "Plebes.M
EXHIBIT OF PAINTINGSNOW IN ; .......
An exhibition of paintings, sketches, 
pastels, charcoals and water colors 
from the Chicago Art Institute and 
Armour Institute, along with somo 
f.rom Philadelphia, is to be seen in the 
large exhibition room of the Design 
School.
This is one of the most interesting 
collections ever hung in the building. 
Already many have visited this ex
hibit, and it is hoped that many more 
students will seize the opportunity 
this week.
Defeats Juniata for First 
Time in History of Athletic 
RelationsAlso Collects the 
Scalp of F. & M.
Friday night found our boys at 
Juniata, where they waded through 
for a 32-20 victory over the strong 
Juniata aggregation.
The game was marked by the fast
est passing on our part all year, and 
also by tho splendid guarding of Fin
lay and Levy.
"Nig" played a whirlwind game, 
caging 6 baskets, with Captain Greene 
and Abrams following closely on his 
heels with 2 and 5, respectively.
Juniata played a good game, but 
had to bo content, with long shots, as 
they could not got a cloar shot dur
ing tho gaino.
Juniata. Tech.
Ollor ..................F................ Abrams
Newcomer .........F...Greeno, (Capt.)
Baker.................C.................. Gretzler
I-Iornor ..............G..................... Finlay
Wright .......... ...G...................... Lovy
Substitutions'-'"Juniata, Fowl or for 
Newcomer; Tech, Foxon for Greono; 
Williams for Finlay.
Field goalsAbrams 5, Greono 2, 
Finlay C, I-Iornor 1, Wright 2, Fowler 
1.
Foul goalsAbrams I! out of 1.4, Oi
ler 12 out of 17.
Referee* -Bronnor.
Loses To Penn State.
Saturday Tech suffered a roverso 
at tho hands of Ponn State on tho 
(Continued on Page Throe.)
PITT AND TECH HOLD 
JOINT Y.M. C.A. MEETING
NEW HAMPSHIRE STUDENTS IN MILITARY DRILL
ATTENTION, ALUMNI
M. M. C. S. ALUMNAE 
DANCE POSTPONED
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
If you are one of the negligent ones j Dance, scheduled for Friday, Februamong the alumni, who have not yetiary 16, was postponed indefinitely, 
turned in the desired information for owing to death in the family of. Miss 
the alumni records, please do so at j Helen Anderson, president of the 
once. Alumnae Association.
Rev. Robert MacGowan Ad
dresses the Students of 
Both Schools
About 135 Tech and Pitt men, in
terested In Y. M. C. A. work, attended 
the joint mooting In tho Bolloflold 
Presbyterian Church last Snuday at 
3 oclock. Rev. Robert MacGowan, who 
had made himself popular at the joint 
smoker tho night before, spoke of 
more serious matters on this occasion.
Tho singing was rendered by tho 
Y. M. C. A. quartet of Pitt and R. K. 
Morker of Tech, as soloist. The Y. 
M. C. A. has started a movement by 
this meeting that cannot but mako 
for tho closer union of the two fore
most educational institutions of this 
district.
Students of Norwich university, lu Now Hampshire, practicing military maneuvers on snowshoes.
J. S. TAYLOR SPEAKS 
BEFORE BIBLE CLASS
The Dorm. Bible Class enjoyed a 
very interesting talk on "The Poetry 
of the Bible, by Mr. J. S. Taylor of. 
the Industry School. There were 
twenty-two present, although there 
might have been more had not this 
meeting conflicted with one held at 
the Bellefleld Presbyterian Church, 
in connection with the Pitt and Tech 
Y. M. C. A.s 
Mr. W. B. Doyle of tho language de
partment of the Science School will 
he the speaker for next Sunday after
noon at 2:15 in the W. Dorm. Club 
Room.
DR. KERR TALKS TO 
M. M. C. S. ASSEMBLY
During the assembly hour last 
Wednesday Dr. Kerr, of tho Shadyside Presbyterian Church, talked to 
tho M. M. C. S. students. Dr. Kerr Is 
a favorite with the girls, and they aro 
always glad to listen to him. On 
Wednesday, February 28, Mr. Woods 
will be tho speaker.
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page twiTHE TARTANWednesday, February 21
lljr (Haran
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.___________________________________________________
Entered in the postoflicr oil Pittsburgh us ,socund-dass matter. 
iSUlSCKI ITION KATES 
Yearly, $1.50 5c the copy Canada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chicf.... 
Business Manager., 
Managing Editor..
Phone Schenley 9067 
Phono Schenley 0107 
Phone Schenley. 9022-1
Alfred M. Stachle, 17 
. .Paul W. Emme), 17 
. ,.W. II. Scaright, 17
News Editors.
J. Russell I-Ioxworth, '17 
Phone Schenley 9031 
A. G. Pearce, '18, assistant. 
Athletic Editor 
J. J. Konnedy, '17 
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
J. P. Davis, '18 
P. C. Tucker, '19 
Advertising Manager 
Nelson P. Ilice
Editors 
M. D. Meyerson, '19 
Alex. Sharove, '18 
Sue Smith. '17 
P. H. Armor, '19 
Associate Editors 
F. C. McConnell 
II. J. Scohell, '18 
A. J. Morris 
Ida Richter 
Circulation Manager 
R. R. Mumma, '17 
Phone Schenley 9070
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours4-5 P. M., School Days.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for policy o this paper; the Managing 
Editor for the inalco-up.The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed, 
the signature to he withheld if desired._____________________________
All business communications should be sent to the (Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re
ported to the Business Manager at once._______________________________________
All news items must be in the student postoiiice, Central Building, by 
Monday noon. __________________________
THE PITT-TECH SMOKER
If the Pitt-Tech smoker may be taken as an indication, the 
past few. years have been very effective in healing that ill feeling 
which very evidently vised to exist between our two great institutions. 
Hospitality was given and received that evening in a spirit of 
friendship which was obviously remarkable for two colleges which 
are in membership, situation, and purpose such intense rivals as are 
Pitt and Tech. The two student bodies appeared to mix well. 
Each listened respectfully to the others song; each was enthusias
tic over the others part in the program. Both in the general con
versation and in the regular program, there was nothing stilted to 
be noticed, for everyone acted as naturally as we would in one of 
our own club rooms.
These various indications of growing acquaintance and mutual 
respect between the schools speak more than ever for our hearty 
support of all common interests in the future. Just at present 
there are the joint meetingsof the two; Y. M. C. A. organizations 
1;o be attended. There are athletic contests coming between the 
schools at which we shall have an opportunity to show that al
though we are rivals we cannot be enemies. There are a hun
dred and one different ways in which we may personally put to
une a little of that good feeling which is always generated by such
affairs as this smoker. In this way the Pitt-Tech smoker may be
just as lasting in effect as it was successful.
THE BASKETBALL TEAM
Tho basket ball team, its coach and manager are deserving of 
considerable credit for their trip which they have just completed. 
The result of the trip was that Tech defeated Franklin and Mar
shall, and Juniata, and went down to defeat at the hands ofLehigh 
and Penn State. These facts alone do not seem so wonderful inas
much as only half of tho games were won. But when one con
siders that this trip marks the first trip which a basket ball team 
re presenting Carnegie Tech has taken in three years in which any 
out of tpwn games have been won, and also that this is the first 
lime iu many years if not the very first time that Tech has de
feated Juniata in basket ball, the performance of tho Tech lessors 
seems rather praiseworthy.
When any particular branch of athletics has gone along in a 
rut for several seasons it requires something, out o.l! the ordinary to 
put it back in its proper place. And this is what has been done. 
The players and managers agree that a large share of credit is due 
Ooael; MeCulloch. And H now occurs to us that there were sev
eral doubting M-homases about; the .Tech campus at the time when 
the new coaching system was installed last fall when the part 
'time coaching system was relegated to the rubbish pile, who were 
rather loud in voicing their sentiments that the new system would 
not. work. It seems that their complaints were rather premature, 
wind without foundation!
Although the work of the Plaid five has not been exactly 
'phenomenal, the games lost have been closely contested, and a 
decided progress in Tech basket ball has taken place. The Lehigh 
game was very close, and the Penn State game was similarly played 
until the strain of the journey and hard games began to tell and 
Tech lost its lead. This bears out the fact that the team is play
ing well.
We congratulate Coach McCullocli and the team for their good 
work!
ONE COUNTRY, ONE FLAG
ANNUAL PITT-TECH 
SMOKER HELD ON 
SATURDAY EVENING
Pitt Outdoes Tech in Her 
Demonstration of Hospi
tality
JUNIOR CLASS HOLDS PROM
THE JUNIOR PROM
The premier social event of the entire school year will be held 
at the Carnegie Music Hall next Friday night.' It marks the first 
time in the history of the school that the prom has been held in 
this hall. The plans of the committee for the annual junior class' 
event are a decided departure from those of previous years. We 
believe that this change is indicative of greater success for the 
coming prom than has marked those of past years.
A social event of this nature requires a great deal of planning 
and a great deal of work, which, as is usual, with non-athletie ac
tivities is marked with little praise, recognition or honor. The 
members of the committee are given little thought as a rule by 
those attending the dance, unless something goes wrong, in which 
ease many may be found to join in unison to voice their displeasure.
Although the prom of the classof 18 is not a matter of 
history as yet, we feel safe in saying that the committee will have 
proven before our next issue, that credit given them now, will have 
been well deserved.
Tlie Carnegie Music Hall, if dancing proves successful on its 
floor, should be an ideal place for the prom, it is certainly one 
of the most beautiful and elaborate halls in Pittsburgh. The special 
favors and feature dances promise to lend unusual attractiveness 
to the affair. All indications point, to a. most successful prom.
Last Saturday evening the men of 
Tech, in number somewhat less than 
four hundred, traveled across the val
ley to accept the hospitality of our 
neighbors on the hill. As each Tech 
man entered the Trees gymnasium, of 
which Pitt may well be proud, he was 
given a pipe, a sack of Tuxedo and a 
card-board disk on which to write his 
name and to then pin on his coat as 
an identification. In this way our 
hosts in the annual Pitt-Tech smoker, 
started the evenings events. After 
our men had arrived, the leader of the 
evening's events, Mr. Willison, an
nounced Delphi and Armstrong in a 
dancing sketch. If those gentlemen 
can handle their brains in the same 
way they handled their legs, an or
dinary mortal would have small 
chance in competition with them.
Jack Thompson put on a Negro 
sketch that raised doubts as to 
whether Thompson was really a white 
man or the real article. A short in
terval was used in getting acquainted, 
and then the Y. M. C. A. quartet en
tertained with old songs. A double 
quartet rendered a medley of South
ern and modern songs. Lutz, of the 
dental school, talked into an imagin
ary telephone in such a realistic man
ner that you could almost hear the 
party on the other end of the line.
Rev. Robert McGowan, a man 
amongst men, was present and demon
strated his possession of a sense of 
humor that was refreshing in a minis
ter, Scotch at that.
A pie-eating contest, put on by 
Freshmen of the two institutions, was 
apparently won by Tech.
At the close of tho evenings enter
tainment the eating began in earnest, 
and lasted until the party broke up, 
with a record of over seven hundred 
men gathered to represent the two 
schools.
In this royal way, Pitt has amply 
demonstrated the good will she holds 
for this institution, and set a mark 
which,we will have difficulty in sur
passing next year.
(Continued from Page One)
Mrs. McCorkle, Mrs. Zeller, Mrs. 
Trinks, Mrs. Doyle, Mrs. Follows, Mrs. 
Crabtree, Mrs. James and Mrs. 
Hoover.
The committee announces that the 
programs, which are beautiful works 
of the decorators art in leather, are 
coming from Philadelphia, and will be 
distributed as soon as they arrive. 
The committee also has left the mat
ter of the giving of flowers to the 
choice of each individual, that he may 
follow his own desires in the mat
ter.
M. M. C. S. SOPHOMORES 
HOLD DANCE FOR PLEBES
CoM<e R ESTAMPANT ligiBoys 435-5 23Ill fVOlL.lXN00 Way . to Ea t
Phone 9634 Grant
THE BLOSSOM 
RESTAURANT
(The Original)
3719 FORBES STREET
(MSMSMSM2MS
Here Youll Find the Com
bination That Pleases 
Cuisine, Service and Tempt
ing Dishes
^f^lMrirp QOna/JttwisARCADa ''ufoullxL/LlvcirT nloiprrrsBtmctfSINGER PEN GIFT SHOP
Jenkins Arcade
Dance Committees: 
See R. C. Cosgrove, Junior Commercial School of 
Applied Science 
for your Programs and Favors and get our special rates.
DO YOU DANCE?
A new class composed of students only starts Monday Evening, 
March 5th
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, CRAIG AND FORBES 
No new people will be received until that date.
Tuition10 lessons, $3.00 $1.00 per week until paid.
BUY A SHIRT
EVERY ONE A DOLLAR MEN'S FIXIN'SOPEN EVENI .GS
UNITED DOLLAR SHIRT SHOPS, 207 Fifth Ave.
On Saturday evening, February 17, 
the Sophomore Class Of Margaret Mor
rison held a dance at Carnegie Union, 
to which the members of the Plebe 
Class were invited. The majority of 
the members of both classes were j 
present, about 125 couples attending..
Excellent music was furnished by, 
Riehls Orchestra. The programs j 
were attractively planned in the form | 
of Valentine hearts. Throughout the 
evening an unlimited supply of punch 
and cakes was served.
The committee, consisting of 
Misses G. Fleming, chairman, R. Toberg, P. McMarlin, M. Hollar and E. 
Mellon, deserves praise for the un
usually good entertainment furnished.
The chaperones for the evening 
were the Misses Hinman, Caverly, 
Browning, Ernst and Rhoenigk.
M. M. C. S. SENIORS 
HEAR VOCATIONAL TALK
Miss Eleanor Smith, of the Pitts
burgh branch of the Collegiate Voca
tional Bureau, will speak to the 
Margaret Morrison Seniors 011 
Wednesday, February 21. Girls, 
please turn out well. This is one of 
your hopes for -getting a job.
raj ^THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE
SHOP IN OAKLAND
Wear-Well
Shoe Shop
VALENTINE PARTY AT 
THE COMMONS CLUB
EVOLUTION AND 
CHRISTIANITY TO 
BE DISCUSSED
The life of George John Romanes will 
be the subject matter of a lecture by 
Dr. Lucius H. Bugbee at Christ 
Church, Center and Liberty avenues, 
this Sunday at S p. m. Romanes was 
a contemporary oS Darwin and Hux
ley in their work on the theory of 
evolution, and his character and life 
offer interesting study to students, 
especially those of philosophy and 
science. There will be excellent music 
and the service will last hut one hour. 
Students of Carnegie Tech and of the 
University will be particularly wel
comed at this hour to hear Dr. Bugboo.
A delightful valentine party was 
given 011 the evening of February 14 
by the Commons Club in its new home 
at 1046 Murray Hill avenue. The 
house was beautifully decorated for 
the occasion with red, green, yellow 
and blue streamers. The dancing did 
not cease until the small hours of the 
following 'morning.
: Everyone had fun. That statement 
may be authenticated by the fact that 
the chaperonesMr; and Mrs.' Dwight 
B. Gerber, Mrs. Sayre and Mrs. Clark 
and the ex-oificio caterers who sup
plied the ice cream, cakes, punch and 
sandwiches placed'their O. Iv. on the 
affair, and they (socially and financi
ally speaking) hope that a repetition 
of the evening will occur again in the 
near future. It will, if Cupid Young 
has anything to say about it!
TECH BIBLE CLASS
WAS ENTERTAINED
The Tech and the Pitt Bible 
1 Classes were given an informal reI ception last Friday evening at the 
home of Dr. and Mrs. F. T. Galpin, 
of the First Baptist Church of Pitts
burgh. More than fifty members were 
present from the two classes, and all 
enjoyed a very delightful evening.
I Prof. Lee, of the Department of 
j Psychology, wrlio w'ill be the future in
structor of the Tech Bible Classes, 
I was present. The Tech Bible Class 
is organized for the purpose of con
scientious Bible study and a whole
some means of social intercourse.
Between Fifth and Forbes on 
Oakland Avenue
3MSM33J3MSM0M3JSM3M3M5MMS3MS.
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
7:45 P. M. Splendid music, short 
sermons.
Shadyside Presbyterian |
Church |
AMBERSON, Near Fifth. I
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR |
(The Nearest Church) |
MORNING AND EVENING E
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 8 P. M. |
AT 9:45 OCLOCK 
Young Mens Bible Class G
Mr. Harry Calvert [f;
Attorney-at-Law J
Mens Bible Class i
Prof. William R. Farmer re
Western Theological Seminary |
Margaret Morrison Class E
Mrs. Frederick B. Shipp @
Womens Bible Class E
Mr. George M. Kirk |
CHURCHES
East End Christian Church
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. RHamiltons Class. All young womer> 
to H. C. Youngs Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park carto Alder street.
JOHN R. EWERS, Minister 
(University of Chicago.)
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
8hady and Northumberland Avenues
Graded Sunday School 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and> 8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D.D., 
Pastor
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and 
Holy Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 p. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium, 
Craig street.
| Grace Reformed Church
(The Church Beautiful) 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS.
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
Bible Classes at 9:45, Morning Wor
ship at 11, Evening Services at 7:45, 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Bright, Popular Evening Services. 
Sermons for head and heart. 
Students Heartily Invited.
That is best which God sends; it 
was his will; it is mine.O. Mere
dith.
PITT and TECH MEN 
MEETING, 3 P. M., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 18TH 
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, FIFTH AVENUE 
SUBJECTS:
FEBRUARY 18Unseen Allies
FEBRUARY 25The Eternal Fire
MARCH 4The Sin of Neroz
. MARCH 11-Remember
Strictly Un-Denominational Special Music 
Auspices Student Young Mens Christian Associations M
M0Mi?MSJi3in!Jc!MMMiSli3fi5JclJi?li3fi3Mc!Jc!ni!i3M3Mi3M3M3M3MS/SM3J3M3M3J2MSMSJSM2J51
TARTAN CALLS FOR CANDIDATESJ ---------
The Tartan wishes to announce that a call for candidates for 
p The Tartan staff is issued. New men are needed to carry on the
work of The Tartan next year. Several vacancies are open at
[!il present, and many more will be open by next June. The offices of
E] Editor-in-Chief, Business Manager, Managing Editor, News Editor
and Athletic Editor will be left vacant by graduation. There are 
|i>i not enough competent members on the present staff to fill these
ii] vacancies. A new man will have about equal opportunity with the
S present staff to compete for there positions. The appointments will
p be made next May.
E] All those who are interested in becoming members of the staff
[g of The Tartan, are requested to meet in the Tartan office, Design 
Itj School, Room 162, next Monday afternoon, at 4:30 oclock.
LINCOLN R. GIBBS
Lecturer and University Professor at Asbury Church, Forbes 
and Murray, January 28-February 25
SNOTABLE SUNDAY EVENING SEBMON-LECTUBESS
General Subjects:The Witness for Religion in Modern 
Literature.''
February 4Brownings Saul or Faith and Pessimism. 
February 11Lowells Vision of Sir Launfal or Finding 
Christ in Service.
February ISChristian Ethics in Writings of John Ruskin. 
February 25Faith and Poetry.
Special MusicUniversity Quartet, W. P. C. W. Glee Club, 
Ampliipn Society, Asbury Vested Choir.
Tech students will be especially welcome to hear this 
gifted speaker on the great theme announced.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 21THE TARTANPage Three
Highest Quality, Strictly Reliable 
Guaranteed Typewriters
/New, slightly used and factory rebuilt,
$8 up; positively lowest prices; No. 5 Un
derwoods, $30; portable typewriters, $10 to 
$45; Remingtons, $15 to $48.50; Smiths, $8 
to $29; Coronas, $28.50 to $45; Olivers, $15 
to $29.50; Royals, $17.50 to $39.50; Pitts
burg Visibles, $5 to $18.50; all makes 
bought, sold and repaired. Every machine 
sold with written guarantee. See us before 
buying a typewriter at any price. Adding 
machines, $10 up. - Call or write.
FORT Pin TYPEWRITER COMPANY
428 Fourth Ave., Near Postoffice
3M3MSMSM3M3J3M3J3MSMc!iSMSMSM3M3M2JSMSMSMSMSJSM2ic 
BELEEFIELD AVENUE FIFTH AVENUE
== SCHENLEY FARMS =====
Schenley Farms with it3 restrictions and wide, 
well lighted streets,
Its nearness to all parts of the City, 
make it the ideal home location.
We build and finance for you.
The Schenley Farms Company
Phone Grant 3 1414 Farmers Bank Bu'lding, City
KURTZ, LANG8EIN & SWARTZ
535 WOOD STREET, PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Slide Rules, Manheim, Polyphase, 
Duplex, Log Log-, Polyphase Duplex, 
Merchants, Electrical, All Fitted With 
the New Frameless Indicators
]SM3M3M3M3M3Mclli
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE,
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince Alberts, 
etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT COMPANY
6001-2-3 Jenkins Arcade 
[g Both Phones. Night Bell
JpM3i3JSM3M3MSMSM3M3M3M3MSM3MSJ3M3M3M3M3M3M3JSMSM3M3M3M2M3j
A PERMANENT POSITION
Thats what a Prudential agency contract 
means for the man who makes good. The 
Prudential has agents who have been with us 
more than thirty years.
Write me about an agency.
FRANK C. PIERSON, Manager
Western Penna. Agency, Ordi...Dept.
Tenth Floor Diamond Bank Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
iasjSMaaaaasHaaaEHiiSHBiasEHarasiEEfSMSEE/BEMSJSMaifgwsHasisisffla
McDOUGALL DANCING STUDIOS
SHADY AND PENN AVENUES EAST LIBERTY
Beginners' Classes: Monday and Thursday
Advanced Classes: Monday, Thursday and Saturday
46l6 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Beginners Classes: Tuesday
Beginners and Advanced Classes: Friday
Ojie-step Club Dance, Saturday Evenings. 8:30 to 11:00 
SATURDAY EVENING SOCIAL CLUB DANCE
TUITION 10 LESSONS $3.00
Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change your type in an instant from one 
tyle to anotheror any language.
THE
MULTIPLEX
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in each machine. 
,4Jut Turn the Knob Presto one or the other 
SimpleCompactPortable
Beautiful workbeyond compare. 
Ifnot inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilt.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons: President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val Dr. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant Bishop John G. Murray William Dean Howells also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 East 69th Street 
New York Ciiy. N. Y.
BESSEMER BLDG., PITTSBURGH
Pierpont. Siviter & Co.,
ENGRAVING PRINTING
LITHOGRAPHING EMBOSSING 
Engraved Calling Cards 
Wedding Invitations 
AnnouncementsDance Programs 
Phone 358 Hiland.
119 SHADY AVENUE
Trustees oE the University of Illi
nois have outlined a definite building 
program for the next ten years which I 
they propose to present to the next 
legislature. This proposed program j 
involves the building of a new agri
cultural plant, a new engineering 
plant, a new university library, a new
JUNIO
lO* PENCILNO MATTER WHAT COURSE
YOURE TAKING YOU NEED
THIS FAMOUS PENCIL!
 Because of the superlaJk tive quality of material 
I \ and workmanship, VENUS 
is admittedly the finest 
pencil it is possible to 
make.
If. you like a thick soft 
lead that marks so that 
you can read the writing 
half way across the room, 
Choose the soft degrees 6B5B 4B.
Fort short-hand notes or ' easy 
writing 3B2BB (medium soft) 
are popular.
For sketching, general writ. 
ing purposes, etc. HBFH 
2H (medium) will prove 
desirable.
For drafting, a medium 
hard pencil gives the best re
sults and youll like 
3H4H5H6H.
For very thin, narrow lines 
for extremely accurate graphical 
charts, maps, details, etc., 7H8H 
9H are available, rncr Look for the distinctive 
rnHLwater mark finish on each of 
the 17 black degrees and hard 
and medium copying. Your 
professors will confirm these 
statements as to the merits 
of VENUS pencils.
For sale at the college 
book store.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. G, N. Y.
Note: Send us
your name and ad
dress and we shall 
be pleased to have 
sent to 
you for 
test a 
box of 
VENUS 
drawing
pencils, VENUS copying pencil and 
VENUS Eraser FREE!
DRAMATIC PLEBES
STAGE TWO PLAYS
iCoutinued From Page One.) 
actors will be seen in plays of wider 
scope and in parts of greater re
sponsibility.
The Land of Hearts Desire was 
given here two years ago. but the cur
rent production was superior accord
ing to members of the original cast 
who saw it. This was, in great meas
ure, due to the stage direction of 
Theodore Vieliman and Katherine 
Jones, both of whom played in the 
earlier production. At best the play 
is difficult to play. Its import is quite 
realistic, but its treatment has the 
gossamer-like weave of a fairy play. 
This fantastic note is struck through 
the medium of the fairy child, which 
was admirably played by Sarah E, 
Bennett. The dishevelled sparkle of 
her expressive eyes, the mysterious 
quality in her voice and the spontane
ous canter of her dancing, made the 
illusion of the little queer old woman 
cloaked in green quite clear and-joy 
ful. Helene L. Shaffer, as Marie 
Bruin, the lovely of heart who with
ered away into the land of hearts de
sire, played her part with sincerity 
and force. Her wistful expression 
and quiet dignity were particularly 
pleasing and right. B. Irving Dickin
son, as the newly married husband, 
played with rustic candor. His sym
pathetic voice had all the fervor and 
feeling of budding spring and his gal
lant manner was like that of a noble 
knight. Entirely unconscious, but 
quite artistic, was the attitude of 
gentle tenderness in which he ap 
proached the fragile spirit of his 
bride.. The picture of these two, as 
they sat together against the back
ground of the old brown settle gave 
beautiful expression to the poets ex
quisite metaphor which she speaks to 
him, O, you are the great door-post 
of this house, and I the red nastur
tium climbing up.
The performance of the Flight of 
Deirdre was noteworthy, not only 
for the finish of the acting, but for 
the beauty of. the inscenierung. Rarely 
has anything quite so fine been 
staged here. The play, written, as 
well as directed, by Mr. Stevens 
showed throughout the perfection of a 
single directing artist. The stage set
ting was not alone beautiful, but it 
was a correct background for this lit
tle imaginative interlude. Scenery 
too often exists for its own sake or 
for the glorification of the artist who 
executes it. But in this instance the 
setting was an harmonious part of 
the performance. In this connection 
credit also is due Nicholas H. Muller, 
who made the designs for the settings 
and costumes, and to George C. Tra* 
bert, who had the task of making the 
light changes.
The performance of the players was 
even and satisfactory. Special men
tion might be made of the splendid 
carriage and affecting voice of Carl 
B. Reid, whose work in both plays be
spoke much for future excellence. 
Because of its rarity, a romantic fig
ure is always welcome on the stage, 
and Mr. Reid, in every detail, was the 
personification of manly grace and 
neroic splendor. Anna C. Dice was 
most successful as Deirdres faithful 
companion. Her opening scene with 
the king was full of dignity and pow
er and her scenes with Deirdre were 
marked for their restraint and tender
ness. Miss Dice is gifted with a voice 
which she uses well. It possesses, 
not only authority, but a tranquil soft
ness .that is compelling. Dollie. E. 
Braun played the exacting role of 
Deirdre satisfactorily. She was, above 
all things, a. . charming and lovely 
creature to see, and throughout the 
piece kept in the character of the dis
tracted Celtic maiden, Her move
ments and gestures were particularly 
well directed and well executed. 
James S. Church made an erect and 
dignified king, but would have been 
better had he made his movem'ents 
correspond more to the fine authoratative qualityof his voice. William 
F. Viehman, as the Druid chancellor, 
struck one of the most interesting 
notes in the performance. The ascetic 
quality of his voice and expression 
made him stand apart from the rest 
which seemed to suit the purposes of 
Carthnas character. His final ad
dress, spoken in a deep nocturnal 
darkness, was rich with color and feel
ing.
worked wonders with the team in its 
games abroad, for in them all the 
boys displayed a game far superior in 
every respect to their previous games, 
and it was his fine perserverance and 
general coaching that, made this trip 
so successful.
The line-up:
Penn State.
Blakeslee (Capt.)F .
university museum plant, a new gym
nasium for men and one for women. 
If this schedule is approved by the 
legislature it will entail a total ap
propriation of from five to seven mil
lions of dollars.
VARSITY RETURNS FROM MOST 
SUCCESSFUL FOOTBALL TRIP
Labacli .......
Adams .......
Walton .......
Wilson .......
... F. 
.. ..C. 
. ..G. 
.. .G.
Tech.
............. Abrams
..Greene (Capt.)
............ Gretzler
............... Finlay
.................. Levy
SubstitutesPenn State, Blakeslee 
for Adams; Fast for Wilson; Wagner 
for Walton; for Tech, Foxen for 
Greene: Williams for Finley.
Field goalsAbrams 2, Greene 1, 
Gretzler 3, Finlay 1.
Foul goalsAbrams 9 out, 1*1. 
Blakeslee 10 out. of IS.
Score end of first halfPenn State, 
17, Tech 11.
RefereeTaggart.
PROFESSER SOLLOM 
STILL IN ENGLAND
(Continued From Page One.)
State floor, by the score of 38-23, after 
Tech had held them to a very close I 
score in the first half.
The game was marked by much fast 
passing as in the Juniata game, but 
the hard trip had told, and the team 
lacked the final punch it had in all 
the previous games.
Blakeslee, Wilson and Walton put 
up a magnificent game for State, 
while the whole Tech. team deserves 
credit for the splendid fight and the 
way they followed Coach McCul
loughs instructions.
Too much credit cannot be given to 
Coach OcCulloch for the way he has
The Director has received the fol-. 
lowing letter from Proressor Sollom. 
formerly of the Design School:
Care of London and Brazilian Bank,
7 Tokenhouse Yard. London E. C.
January IS, 1917. 
My Dear Director: 
No doubt you will be wondering 
what has become of me. However, 
my card, bearing Xmas and New 
Years wishes, will have shown you 
that at that time I was still in the 
land of the living.
Although engrossed in studying for 
the examinations at the time, I man
aged to remember the majority of my 
friends. I had no time to write, so 
sent cards, as plain ones as I could 
obtain, risking their being passed by 
the censor. All cards and photos 
have been bound for sometime.
Two or three months ago I posted, 
to a friend on your side of the pond a 
photo of myself in uniform. Eventu
ally it was returned with a polite inti
mation not to do it again. Personally 
I did not think it so atrocious, at all 
events the photographer made no 
complaints about his camora after
wards.
Had I been the censor I would have 
passed it and shouldered the re
sponsibility for its delivery upon I he 
commander of some enemy sub
marine.
After spending nine weeks of good 
hard training with the Artists Rifles, 
drilling, muskotry practice, all sorts 
of fatigues, guard duty and route 
marches, etc., I was sent to one of 
the largest camps in the kingdom.
The work there was very interest
ingapart from drilling, I was 
amongst horses all the time.
Stables were from (! a. m. i:o 7 a. 
nr. and again from 4 p. in. to 5 p. in 
The balance of the day was ocoupiod 
with drills and riding school. I had 
no fatigues or guard duties.
The riding instructor was a very 
good man, a regular tartar though 
when he got going.
The last three weeks were devoted 
to; study intermixed with drills, etc. 
We attended three lectures a day. 
Toward the end of December wo went 
through the final riding test, and two 
written examinations, then had to 
clear out to make room for others at 
the school. This sort of thing is go
ing on all over England, the organigation is marvellous.
In about two weeks T was notified 
of my commission as second lieuten
ant. and ordered to report for duty. 
One knows nothing in the army until 
the very last moment. Where I shall 
be sent is a matter of conjecture. 
Im as fit as a fiddle and ready to go 
anywhere.
You asked me to let you know be
fore the end of February what pros
pectsthere might be for my return in 
September. It is a difficult question 
to answer, for there are so many ru
mors afloat. Then if I am ordered 
East it rather complicates matters, 
for I am not at all sure peace with 
Germany would bring immediate 
peace with the Eastern Nations now 
at war. The end is as elusive as the 
race-track sharpers tricknow you 
see it, and now you dont.
Well stick it to the last. It's amus
ing where all the men come from. 
When in camp thousands came, and 
went. They would march away some
times at night with their bands play
ing them off. . . . You know the
deep interest I took in my work at 
the school, and still have in its wel
fare. My thoughts, I assure you, often 
turn westward, and I wonder how the 
good work is progressing.
Many thanks for your kind thoughts 
and Mrs. Hamersclilags, as also for 
the characteristic card just received.
Again may 1 express my sincere 
wishes that the year will prove one 
of much happiness for you and yours, 
and great success for the cause you 
have so much at heart.
Very sincerely yours,
VINCENT P. SOLLOM.
Carnegie Institute of Technology
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of 
Science. Also courses in science in preparation for teaching or 
for research.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
painting, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic 
arts, open to men and women, loading to the degree o Bachelor 
of Arts.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Also a course for training indus
trial teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in 
Industrial Education. Short courses of eight months are offered 
in machine shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, electric 
wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and bricklaying for inoro ma
ture applicants who have had soino experience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Offers a 
regular day course of general training, with particular emphasis 
on home-malcing, followed by specialized training in household 
economics, secretarial economics, costume economics, homo arts 
and crafts, general science, or social work, loading to tho degree 
of Bachelor of Science. Also courses for tho training of teachers 
in tho above subjects.
Night CoursesThe four schools offer night, courses In prac
tically all of tho above subjects to provide educational opportu
nities for Lhoso who are at work during tho day.
FeesTho total foes for a. day courso are .$'18.00 a year for 
residents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. Tho total 
feos for night courses are $1(5.00 for residents and $1.8.00 for nonrosidents.---------------------------
For further Information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
fcericks.
CAN notmc VI acm/icE
ALL VICTOR RECORDS, EVERY DAY
And the Victrola to Play Them on
Demonstrations 
at any time
W. F. FREES
635-37 Smithfield St., PITTSBURGH
mm
The greatest man is he who chooses 
right with the most invincible resolu
tion.Seneca.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTION
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNI8HING8 AND HAT8 
FOR MEN, BOY8 AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD 8TREET

---------------------------------------------------

mftaMfhmad
REMEMBER  Turkish to bacco is the worlds most famous tobacco for cigaA Corporation
Makers of the Highest* Grade 
Turkish and Egyptian Ciga
rettes in the World.
Page FourTHE TARTANWednesday, February 21
ONE DOLLAR THE BOX
llllllllllllllllllllllllllillB
1916 was the Ban
ner Year in the sale 
of R. V. B. Choco
lates.
It was far in the 
lead in all Points 
from which a Box of 
Chocolates could be 
judged.
SALES
QUALITY
APPEARANCE
STUDENT LUNCHEON j|J 
Milk or Coffee, 5c
Pie, 5c per cut j| 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c [| 
Ice Cream, 10c 
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
Iroquois Block.
ap A TALBOTNclv _A R ROW
JwhJtt COLLARS
are curve cut, to fit the 
shoulders perfectly 
Cluctt, peabody fiCCodnc.^Makcrs
ojSJSiSMSMS/SMIMJli!]] uUM
Forbes Quality 
Shop
PORBE8 and BOUQUET 8T8. 
LUNCH AND SODA
I?MHBJHBHB1/1S!/^J5JM0M^I)0/̮/9MSJ
(GMJ6U3MMM
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phono 239 8ohonloy.
Moving, Pncklna nnd Storing 
of Furnlturo and Planoo. Gen
eral Hnullng Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4910-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
(SiSMHMSiSJ3MS/0iGlM3/c!Mcl/SM3M0J
ATHLETIC LETTER CLAN fD BE ORGANIZED
Manager Gearhart Gives Out 
Interesting Dates
Immediately af.tei* the Lehigh game 
Friday evening, Manager Gear
hart plans to assemble all the letter 
men ho can In the Union for the pur
pose of organizing the Tech Athletic 
Letter Clan. Tickets to the game 
have been went to the letter men In 
Pittsburgh to assure their presence.
The customary dance after the 
game this week is planned especially 
for the Plebes and Sophomores.
In connection with the formation of 
the letter clan, Manager Gerhart gives 
out the following interesting informa
tion:
Of 285 men who have won their 
letters, there are 38 still in school 
and 247 out of school. Forty-one men 
won letters in two sports and five 
won letters in three sports. These 
last are, Blanchard, Halferty, Coldren, Charles and Henning.
The letter men are divided among 
the sports an follows:
Football .......104 Track ..............76
Baseball ....... G5 Tennis ...........JL7
Basket Ball .. 41 Hockey ...........28
THEiTHISTLE WANTS YOMAP-SHOTS
It Also Wants Your Support 
in the Other Departments
The art department of the schools 
is lending every effort to make the 
1917 Thistle eclipse all previous ones, 
by supplying the necessary posters. 
Everybody is working! How about 
you? Two ,or three of those snap
shots you took are interesting enough 
to be printed, and why not turn them 
in? It is by this means only that this 
section can be made of general inter
est, and it is important that they bo in 
by Saturday. Hand them to any mem
ber oC the stall. Then, too, you can 
assist by purchasing your receipt at 
the same Lime.
THE SOUTHERN CLUB TO HOLD OPEN HOUSE
"Are you from Dixie? If so, come 
lo 5072 Forbes street, at 8:30 oclock, 
Wednesday evening, February 21, 
1017. We want to know you, and 
want you to know us. Como and well 
got acquainted. Lots of smokes, 
plenty of eats and a jolly good time. 
Are you with us?
CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS HOLD TWO MEETINGS
Social Meeting on Wednes
day Pieceded the Election 
of Officers on Friday
On Wednesday evening, February 
14, the Civil and Sanitary Engineers 
Society held a very interesting and 
enjoyable meeting. At the invitation 
of the society several members of the 
alumni were present and spoke of 
their experience since their gradua
tion. The following men spoke: 
Messrs. Lathan, '09; Bell, 11; Kaul, 
'12; Dornberger, '13; Miller, '13; 
Wells, '14; Lucas, 14 (night); and 
Whitehead, 16 (night). All of the 
remarks were entertaining and in
structive.
Mr. Dornberger, who has renounced 
civil engineering for the brokerage 
business, related his experiences in 
Europe in the fall months of 1914. 
Mr. Lathan spoke of some difficulties 
encountered by young graduates in 
the structural field, and Mr. Lucas, 
very modestly, offered the following 
very valuable advice: Keep an ab
solute silence, so as not to display 
your ignorance of practical matters.
Just before the meeting was opened 
President Karl made the disconcert
ing discovery that the expected re
freshments were among those miss
ing. Being a resourceful man, lie 
hastily summoned his no less re
source associates and outlined the 
ijecessary details. As a result, when 
the speeches were finished, the so
ciety set its guests and itself down to 
a very inviting course of refresh
ments. Ice cream, cakes and coffee 
were served. The coffee was made 
by W. R. Porter, chief coffee maker 
in Dr. Esquerres calorie factory.
On Friday morning the election of 
second semester officers was held. 
The results were as follows: T. E.
Orr, president; John Towns, vice 
president; Karl, treasurer, and Pearce, 
secretary.
Capital
MELLON
NATIONAL
BANK
PITTSBURGH
510-5 4 Smithfield St. 
40-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
$6,000,000 I
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstovvn 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is aa often 
as not told by his footwearif he la 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more Important things. If 
you v/ill buy your shoss here, you 
n-.iiy be certain of lookin'] all right, 
feeling all right and impressing oth* 
t'T. with the -act that you ara all 
r-ght. Our Shoes "re built by soma 
of the most representative Shoe Mai*
1 ||(* ufacturers in the world.$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
I GET YOUR HAIR CUT
i TECH BARBER SHOP
3 Nearest to Tech
| COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
| FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS HOLD MONTHLY MEETING
M m 1 1 I 1 m @ 
E il i
Cameraphone
BC8T PHOTOPLAYS
 All The Time  
EAST LIBERTY
E/5J5/5J5J515J5JBI5f5J5Jc!M5Jc!J5J5M5M5JB/5JBJ51Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Corner of Wlnthrop Street 
Bell Phone Schenley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 
DELIVERED
fW
PLEIIES FAIL TO STOP
DESIGN SOPH BANQUET
(Continued From Pago One.) 
blg-hoartod Sophs decided to lot thorn 
know what was up before the event 
had complotoly passed Into history. 
Thoy, thereupon, dispatched a tologrnm to the Plebe President, notifying 
him of tho unkind manner In which 
the Sophs had hoodwinked him and 
his follows.
Tho menu and program wore ar
ranged in a most, unique manner, the 
carte being us follows:
Stumlck Stutters.
Plebe a la Sink.
Buulds. Fluted Corinthien
An Acquatic Projet With a 
Little Entourage.
Hot Venus de Coupe.
(Bred in Schenley Park.) 
Hair-Cut de Schenley Park, 
Monthly Allowance.
Heliwa Charette.
That Frigid Plebe Banquet. \ 
Sweet Essence of First Mention.
Dark Wash.
As toastmaster, Nelson P. Rice, 
president of the Sophomore Class, out
did all his previous attempts and kept 
things humming.
D. H. Sandow, the Sophs song-bird, 
assisted by Otto Olson, kept music in 
the air. Hans Muller, when he was 
not tinkling on the piano, gave ex
cerpts from his itinerary of Hawaiian 
dances, and Mr. Lee proved himself 
one of the boys by relating anecdotes.
The past history of the class was 
reviewed by John Todd in a very 
able manner. Ira S. Stark, as class 
prohpot., onterod into the prophetic 
vein and, pulling aside the curtain 
from tho misty future, took his class
mates into the year 1927. Varied and 
wierd were tho prognostications. Men 
of the class of 1919 wero doing every
thing from acting us dean to n 
Womens college to building StatoCapitols in Colorado.
I I 
$I
The A. T. E. E. held its monthly 
meeting lust Wednesduy in Room 11 
of Mnchinery Hall. The early part of 
the evening was given over to reports 
and reminiscences of the inspection 
trip taken to Erie, Buffalo and Ni 
agara Falls during the week between 
semostors. The speakers were A. L. 
Morley, F. I. LaAvson, Blalock, J. J. 
Kennedy, L. 11. Hale and C. II. Kindi. 
The reilectoscopo was kept busy dur
ing the evening, showing the numer 
oils snap-shots taken on the trip.
After tho regular meeting the 
Thistle picture of tho club was taken, 
Tho meeting was so interesting that 
members barely had time to do away 
with the refreshments provided in the 
club room before the lights were 
turned out.-a rare occurence.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY HEARS
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
"THE OAKLAND BANK"
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Mr. J. A. David, instructor In 
physics in the Industries School, gave 
a monologue of Ida Tarbells story, 
"lie Knew Lincoln, at the regular 
meeting of the Industries Assembly 
last week. The story of "Billy Brown, 
of Springfield, 111., and his relations 
with Mr. Lincoln, as depicted by the 
author, was recited by Mr. David in 
his usual pleasing manner, and was 
greatly enjoyed and appreciated by 
the student body.
LAWTOCHFRARIE PLANS FOR SECOND SEMESTER
New Member to Be Elected 
From the Sophomore Class. 
Society Plans for Dance.
At their last meeting the Lawtochfrarie Sophomore Society found them
selves with only nine instead of ten 
members, owing lo the loss of. one 
member at the end of the semester. 
At the next meeting of the society, on 
February 27, the active body will 
oloct. a member of their own class to 
till tho vacancy. With their number 
again brought up to the required ten, 
the society hopes to go on into the 
second somostor with renewed energy. 
It is planned to hold a Lawtoehfrarie 
dance on March 23. Tho society is 
somewhat handicapped by the few 
ness of its members, but they hope 
to liavo all of (lie thirty active and 
inactive members in school present. 
The dance is to be informal, and will 
probably be held in the Union. Mem
bers of some other societies may be 
invited.
Do Business by Mail E
It'o profitable, with accurato lists of prot 
pcctflOur catalogno contain vital informaPhone 1254 Grant
j&uti Rental (cu
406 PITTSBURGH LIFE BUILDING
FOR RENTAL
FULL DRESS AND ALL MENS FORMAL WEAR, FOR 
DAY OR EVENING
No Extravagant Statements, But Good Service.
quantity 
guaranteed. Such
Mail Advertising. Also I 
6,000 nationul mailing list
War Material Mfrs. Wealthy Men 
Cheese Box Mfrs. Axlo Grease Mfrs. 
Shoo Retailers Auto OwnersIB Contractors Tin Can Mfrs.
Druggists Farmer*, Etc.
3HU Writo for tlliB 1*>1j1o reference liook; also fa lit prices and samples of fac-nimilo letters.
IKH llavo us write or reui'''your Sales Letters. j
Ross-Gould, 1019 K Olite SL
Ross-Gould
Mailingt-is-frsSt.Louis
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
Clothiers, Tailors, 
Hatters, Furnishers
JSi5MS/5/S/5J2/5/S/5J5M5J5i5i5M5J5MB/5i5i5/5/2J5M5/5/5JSiS/5JSJ5jBMSM5J5MBi5ISiSJS/5/5J5J51
GREGSONS
TEA ROOM AND CAKE SHOP 
j - LUNCHEON12 to 2 P. M. AFTERNOON TEA3 to 5 P. M.
Phone 2052 Hiland 5909 PENN AVENUE
604-506 Federal Street, 
North Side
ENTERPRISE CLEANING CO.
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work In Ladles, Children!
and Household Work. 
Orlontal Rugs and Draperies r 
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland 
Work 4912 Hiland.
East End Dances
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING 
in McCrory Building 
6019-23 PENN AVENUE 
Elevator to third floor.
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD ST8.
Phones 1603161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH
STUDENTS |
FLOWERS for all OCCASIONS |
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS I
FLORAL EXPERTS |
5936 PENN AVENUE g
I I Near Highland Avenue &
OAKLAND | HARDWARE CO. |Hardware and ;j; House-Furnishing Goods UN 3606 FORBES ST. f Pittsburgh, Pa. ?
H. W. Gottfried, Electrical, writes 
from Mexico City that he is now en
gaged in the commercial engineering 
field in this city. He is handling the 
agencies for several large manufactur
ing establishments and is making 
good with a venegeance. He was re
cently elected a member of the Board 
of Directors of. the American School, 
which is quite an honor.
