y RIC MEDROW
artan Editor in Chief
Student Senate sponsored a debate 
nween the candidates for Student Senate 
resident last Wednesday.
WRCT radio covered the debate that a 
owd of about 40 witnessed live. Candidates 
Lrted with an opening statement, ansLred two questions from each of four pane
ls: Student Senate Chairman Alexandra 
Loulakis, Tartan Editor Ric Medrow, 
Indent Dormitory Council President Jeff 
Lei and Student Senate Chairman of 
Ipneral Campus Information Pat Schmitt, 
fielded questions from the audience. 
Here is how the candidates stand on the
Grondwalski  Did not participate in the debate.
Ted Hughes  Hughes is running on a 
platform of communicating more effec
tively with his constituency. His methods of 
accomplishing better communication 
include changing Nates column into a 
serious forum, pretty wild partying, cam
pus mail and the dreaded computer mail. 
Hughes said if he ever seriously disagreed 
with his constituency, he would have to 
resign. He also said he did not foresee such a 
split of opinion. As for lowering tuition, 
Hughes did not feel much could be done. 
The best thing I can say is transfer.
Bill McConnick  McCormick sees the 
president as a liaison between administra
tion and students. He feels that he is most 
qualified because of his relationship with
administration, developed during his tenure 
as president of United Fraternal Organiza
tion. In order to make Student Senate more 
effective, McCormick would like to change 
the current representation by college to class 
representation. He would also try to get a 
better sense of student opinion by using a 
roll-call opinion poll of senators.
Marc Olin  Olins main thrust as pres
ident would be in improving campus social 
life. He would like to initiate a Rathskeller 
that would serve alcohol to students over 21, 
and divert money from student organiza
tions that are under-budget to be invested in 
more campus-wide parties. As for other 
issues, Olin feels that The Tartan and 
WRCT have been ignored. He would like a 
weekly address on WRCT in addition to a
photo by Eric Targan
try Ann Sacco, Marc Olin, Bill McConnick, John Pane, Peter Corless, and Ted Hughes (1. to r.) field questions in Wednesday's 
sidential debate.
weekly column. He also feels that if you 
can get a good, working relationship with 
administration, you can get them to do 
things for you. Olin feels that his expe
rience as head of a Doherty Apartments 
activities organization gives him the expe
rience he needs to accomplish his goals.
John Pane  Pane is running on a 
platform of experience. He has three years of 
Senate experience behind him, including a 
tenure as chairman of Rules Committee. 
Last year Pane did a comprehensive revamp 
of the constitution in order to make Senate 
more efficient. Most recently Pane lias 
spoken out against the faculty referendum 
to restrict students from Kresge Faculty Din
ing Room, an area that Pane feels should be 
open to students just as any area in our 
supposed student union should. Pane finds 
that such experience has given him insight 
into how to deal with administration. I 
think Ive made my respect known.
 Mary Ann Sacco  Saccos main initia
tive would be in making Student Senate 
more effective by setting up a series of work
shops that senators would attend to teach 
them about efficient student government. 
Other specific goals include adding new 
courses and phonathons to raise money.
 Peter Corless  Corless dropped out of 
the race because he wants to throw his sup
port to other candidates. He says that 
Hughes is a joke candidate and urges stu
dents to vote for either McCormick, Olin or 
Pane. Corless says that his loyalty to the 
students of CFA forces him to drop out, 
because he is very active on the Art Student 
Advisory Committee and that is very impor
tant to him.
Voting will be from 9:30 am to 9:30 pm on 
Wednesday and Thursday of this week in 
Grey Matter, Skibo.
ittsburgh students go to university peace lobby
FELICIA PRATTO
Staffmriter
ie first university peace lobby since the 
1960 s was held last Wednesday. Over 
I students from the East and Midwest, 
lluding over 30 from the Pittsburgh area, 
fxl their congressmen to take legislative 
|on to end the arms race, 
phe lobby platform supports a legislative 
-ze on the testing and production of 
weapons, provided the Sovietpu< lear
Jion does the same within a certain time 
The platform also calls for a freeze
fr this Issue
becoming changes......................page 2
Hater at Kiltie............................page 5lures
lsiness conference..........................page 7
^avaganza!....................................... page 8
tertainment
burgh Opera joins CMU .... page 11
( Raybeats are coming.............I^age 12rts
1 arums lost* playoffs.................page 13
jmate Frisbee at CMU ............page 17
boriai
0ut and vote............................jjage 20
on anti-satellite and space based antiballistic missile systems. The safety of such 
systems has been questioned since they 
could give the United States a first-strike 
capability and knock out Soviet communi
cations satellites at the crucial time. The 
student lobbyists also hoped to convince 
their representatives to call for negotiations 
between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. on space 
based weapons systems.
The Pittsburgh students had the oppor
tunity to speak to Representative Bill Coyne 
(D-Pa.) and Senators John Heinz (R-Pa.) 
and Arlen Spec tor (R-Pa.). Coyne responded 
positively to suggestions and committed 
himself to vote for the legislative freeze. 
When Pitt student Michael Fry asked if he 
was pressured by large corporations in Pitts
burgh to vote for defense bills, Coyne said he 
was not because the corporations probably 
saw no hope of persuading him since his 
voting record against nuclear weapons 
spending has been so consistent.
Senators Heinz and Specter were some
what less receptive to the lobby platform. 
Both oppose the size of the Reagan defense 
budget, but have chosen to bargain with the 
President to reduce defense expenditures by 
voting for percentages of the requested pack
age. An aide of Heinz explained the tactic, as 
voting for 50 MX missiles instead of 100 last 
year and 10 instead of the Administration 
request for 40 this year. Heinz avoids becom
ing one of those Senators who the President 
need not look to because Hes one of those 
guys who never votes for you.
Heinz only met with the 200 Pennsylva
nia students for about 10 minutes because he 
had a previously scheduled Finance Com
mittee meeting. However, he explained that 
he would continue to vote for the MX 
because Reagan needs the MX as a bargain
ing chip to get the Soviets to reduce their 
SS-18 and SS-19 missiles. A handful of peocontinued on page 3
photo by John StilwHl
Delta IJpsilons rousing rendition of H.M.S. Pinafore won them a Greek Sing tide. For 
more Greek Sing info, see the supplement.
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 20.. March 13, 1984.
enate presidential candidates debate views

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 13, 1984
Alumni Awards dinner moved to springHomecoming faces long-term changes next fall
photo by John Stilwell
The traditional Homecoming game will not be altered, but other Homecoming 
changes are imminent.
By KAREN CERRONI
Tartan Staffunritrr
For the last several months, the Alumni 
Executive Board, in partnership with the 
Alumni Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Trustees, has been brainstorming ideas for 
future Homecoming programs. Most of the 
planning concerns long-range changes, 
although some are effective next fall.
' This year Homecoming will take place 
October 12, 13, and 14. Many familiar 
events, particularly those involving students 
will continue: the bonfire, the pep rally, fire
works and the ox roast.
The major change next year will be the 
Friday night Alumni Awards dinner. It will 
be held next spring, in an attempt to initiate 
a spring Homecoming program.
In addition to the fall weekend, the Board 
nas agreed to postpone the Alumni Awards 
dinner until the Sunday night of Com
mencement weekend. The awards dinner 
would replace the party President Cyert 
holds in his home for honorary degree par
ticipants. Thus, the following day the 
alumni will be able to participate in 
commencemen t.
Linda Schorr, director of Alumni Rela
tions, explained, Weve been considering 
the idea of having more than one HomeA Phi O to conduct annual Ugly Man On Campus 
contest tomorrow and Thursday at DH or Skibo
coming event in a school year for a whik 
now. Originally, Homecoming 
Camegie-Mellon was held around the tim 
of Spring Carnival. With the build up0f th 
athletics program a switch took place in 
30s so that Homecoming was in the fall
The possibility of eliminating the fe 
Homecoming schedule was disregarded; 
order to retain an increasing student interes 
in the weekend. If it was changed to only 
spring event, the activities would exclud* 
students. Alumni activities would induA 
attending classes and living on campusdu 
ing the week after commencement, and 
ticipating in many social affairs in ordert 
renew old acquaintances.
In place of the Alumni Awards Dinm 
this fall, some suggestions considered; 
along the lines of informal gatherings, 
that the first Friday of the weekend is nots 
hectic for arriving alumni. According 
Schorr, Many of the Alumni will be ami 
ing Friday between four and eight. Pe 
a seafood buffet, a social hour or a wine a 
cheese party will take the place of the form 
dinner. Then visiting alumni wont havei 
run straight to their hotel rooms and chanj 
to suits and dresses.
The Homecoming Committees it 
concern is deciding on a theme and lin 
up honorary guests in the same vain as 
years Hill Street Blues cast. This task h 
been described by Schorr as a tough act
By KATHLEEN ROM AN IK
Special to The Tartan
Who do you think is the ugliest man or 
woman on campus? Youll get a chance to 
decide for yourself very soon. Alpha Phi 
Omega National Service Fraternity is spon
soring their annual Ugly Man On Campus 
contest tomorrow and Thursday from 10:30 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
The contestants for the coveted title are: 
Jim B. from ZBT, Scottie Dog from Tech 
House, Orpheus Allison, The Man Which 
Time Forgot from ATO, John Mattaboni 
from DTD, Kathy Faley from DTD, Fang 
from DU, Biafra Andropov from WRCT, 
Playboy Bunny from KKG, E.T. from A Phi
Students are seeking less help 
from Counseling Center tutors
By MARIA RIVAS
Tartan Production Manager
The Counseling Center semester tutors 
say students have not been seeking as much 
help as they did last semester.
The counseling center hues tutors for 
seven subjects and tutoring is available 
Monday through Thursday nights. Tutors 
are prepared to aid students who have prob
lems or questions in the areas of writing, 
calculus, chemistry, physics, H&SS Math, 
Philosophic Methods & Social Values, and 
German.
Cath McCafferty, senior creative writing 
major, said that tutoring is a good service 
and resource but people are not talking 
advantage of it.
A sophomore in ECE, Frank Ciarallo 
tutors in calculus and is also concerned. I 
am sure more people could use the help. 
Laurie Schorr tutors for Philosophic 
Methods and Social Values and said she has 
not had one person come see her this 
semester.
Tak Cheung, chemistry tutor, is allowing 
for the possibility that chemistry is a course 
that is taken, in general, in the fall.
According to Vince Matsko, a tutor in 
H&SS Math, Things will pick up now that 
midterms are out. Towards the end of the 
semester students will start to come in a lot. 
From the other side of the fence
Syllabus helps to ease the student's heavy workloa
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
It happened again last week.
Id pulled an all-nighter to finish a paper 
and skipped two classes when I collapsed 
into bed. When I awoke, I dove back into my 
books to catch up on what Id 
missed in class. That was fine 
for the first class; I just pulled 
iout my syllabus and got to work. 
Unfortunately, the teacher for the other class 
doesnt use a syllabus. When I got to class 
the next day, I was lost.
Over fifty percent of teachers at CMU 
dont use a syllabus. Reasons for this range 
from I could never stick to such a rigid
schedule to My class is unstructured in 
nature. I really dont know what the most 
beneficial assignment might be next week.
Nobody ever said a syllabus had to be 
strictly followed. Nothing is carved in stone. 
What students need is some kind of guide
line to help plan ahead.
Lets face it. Students at CMU have a 
heavy workload. Its a struggle to keep our 
heads above water for the smartest. And for 
those of us who try to stay here on hard work 
and desire. . .
Im not complaining. Dont get me 
wrong. We expect to work hard. But give us 
a chance to keep up. If I know that Ive got a 
ten page paper due on Friday, Ive got to
spend Monday and Tuesday getting 
in my other classes or find myself 
when I finally get up from typing theP"
Heres one more for you. Imag1,ie 
youve got a meeting with your dep# 
head at 2:30. The students in your 1 
demand that you keep lecturing unU 
How are you going to explain that 1 
friendly department head? Its just as 
for a student to explain to one teacf^ 
another teacher kept him late. Bel>eve 
not, our time is valuable too.
This is the second in a series of ^ 
The Tartan is printing in hopes of ft 
ing enthusiastic efforts to create a cu 
teaching to match the culture of reSt 
CMU.
in Skibo.
A vote can be cast for a candidate by put
ting money in the box under his/her picture 
for a penny per vote. A person can vote as 
many times as he or she like, i.e. a dollar may 
be placed in someones box to cast 100 votes 
for him/her. The proceeds from the contest 
will be donated to St. Judes Childrens Hos
pital. Last year over $400 was raised for this 
charity. So dont forget to vote for your 
favorite ugly person.
Photos by Mike Pilewski
Activities Fee may be raised
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffxvriter
It will be decided by a school-wide referen
dum whether or not to increase the existing 
activities fee of $25 a semester to $30.
The increase was proposed by student 
senator Pat Schmitt at a senate meeting at 
the beginning of the semester.
Hie activities fee has not been raised in 
the past four years, and, in the opinion of 
Fran Fitzgerald, a member of Senate 
Finance committee, the increase will pro
vide much needed funding for such organi
zations as lacrosse club, mens and womens 
rugby, and other clubs searching for funded 
recognition.
Fitzgerald expresses his hope for a big 
student turnout for the voting because 
believes that the activities fee is an import 
issue, and that it will affect everyone. ^ 
of voter turnout continues to pose a pn 
lem, sometimes dropping as low as 
which is pretty ridiculous according 
Fitzgerald.
A proposed increase in the activities! 
was turned down last year, but StuA 
Senate seems to be optimistic.
A few students believe the activities 
increase will be very beneficial andag 
number feel it is needed, but an alam 
number of students know little, if anyth11 
about the proposed increase.
O, and The Lobster from A Phi O.
Pictures of the candidates will be dis
played in front of Doherty Hall if the 
weather is good or else they will be displayed
The following subjects are tutored Mon
day through Thursdays between 7 and 10 
p.m.: Writing in BH 229B; Calculus in PH 
225C; Chemistry in BH 245; Physics in PH 
226B; H&SS Math in PH 226C; Philosophic 
Methods in BH 235A.
German is also tutored on Tuesday and 
Thursday from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. in PH 
226A.

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1984The TartanPage 3
Students gather in Washington to protest MX
fltinued from page 1
who were frustrated with Heinzs treat,nt of the lobbyists, including several 
ttsburghers and Temple University Pro
hor Mark Sacharoff raised the issue with 
einzs aide for foreign affairs and defense, 
Jijforge Tenet. Tenet admitted that the MX 
the quantities available is a useless wean and that the Soviets are probably 
ondering why the U.S. is wasting its 
i^oney" on it.
Specter spent a half hour answering ques
ts from the lobbyists, despite his aides 
. tinually reminding him he was late fora 
'fleeting. He said the 13% Reagan increase in 
 Defense budget is too high, and that 
would support an increase close to the 5% 
crease proposed by Senator Pete Dominici 
-New Mexico). When asked what defense 
r^ograms he would cut, Specter replied that 
is up to Department of Defense, not the 
^nate, to find where to make cuts. Another
student asked what the Senator thought of 
Star Wars weapons. Specter replied that 
we ought not to be in space, and that he 
would vote for a resolution calling for a 
treaty with the Soviets on space based wea
pons. He refused to make a commitment to 
vote against the MX this spring because as 
of today, it would be irresponsible of a U.S. 
Senator to say how he would vote since 
they have to watch the Soviet Union in 
the coming months. Specter also said the 
President has used some anti-Soviet rhetoric 
in the past three years which would be better 
left unsaid.
The lobby day was organized by United 
Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War (UCAM) 
and the Princeton Alliance to Reverse the 
Arms Race. Participants were addressed by 
Congressman Patricia Schroeder (DColorado), who serves on the House Armed 
Services Committee, Peter Stein, co-founder 
of UCAM and professor of physics at Corphoto by Mike Pilewski
e destruction caused by a one megaton air burst would be devastating.
GOIMG AWAY?
IP YOU ARE 
HEADING SOUTH 
FOR BREAK, DOM'T 
BE CAUGHT SHORTLESS. WE HAVE DYED 
COTTOM SHORTS Id 30 COLORS.
ifM
I
rMACND
FROM 10$
406 5. Craig St. Oakland 
683-6486
Monday-Saturday 10 a.m.-5:30 p.m.
nell University, student organizers Peter 
Heller and Matt Turdreymen of Princeton, 
and Randy Keiler of the National Freeze 
Campaign.
Schroeder told how to effectively lobby 
legislators. Politicians like resolutions, 
she said, because they dont have to do 
anything about them. The House passed a 
freeze resolution last year, which was 
defeated in the Senate. Schroeder said she 
expected to lose many freeze supporters on 
the legislative freeze vote. She also described 
the history of the MX missile in Congress, 
pointing out that the MX has failed its pur
pose of becoming an undetectable, nonstationary missile, since the only basing 
modes the Reagan Administration has been 
able to come up with are stationary.
In describing satellites as the eyes and 
ears of the planet to hopefully preserve the 
planet, she warned that anti-satellite wea
pons would make a nuclear freeze unverifiable since satellites can be used to detect 
nuclear weapons testing and production. 
She urged that Congress pass a resolution 
for the U.S. to return to the space weapons 
negotiations with the Soviets, which the
U.S. walked out of after the invasion of 
Afghanistan.
Randy Keiler welcomed the students as an 
important part jf the grass roots work 
which has made the freeze campaign suc
cessful, saying It isnt going to happen in 
Washington. He also told students that the 
fight would be a long-term battle, but that 
politicians are too caught up in the institu
tions of government to end it. Our only 
hope resides in each other.
The lobby may represent the beginning of 
nationally coordinated lobbying by campus 
peace groups. In preparation for the day, 
peace groups at many campuses, including 
the CMU Peace Alliance, registered sympa
thetic voters and collected proxy forms sup
porting the lobby day platform in order to 
show congressional representatives that 
they can be effective political forces. 
Towards that end, UCAM began holding 
regional training sessions for campus peace 
activists on the 1984 elections in January 
and February. The organizers vowed to 
sponsor future lobby days and to coordinate 
other political activities with their 500 con
tact campuses.
Student phonathons garnered 
$52,442; total goal is 3.1 million
By USA BERNSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Student phonathons for 1984 were held 
for six weeks this January and February. 
Two hundred five students contacted 10,000 
alumni, and 1,172 alumni promised sup
port totalling $52,442. Of the pledges, 608 
were new or increased gifts.
Twenty-two organizations volunteered 
their time to contact alumni throughout the
country. As incentive, an award for the 
organization with the highest dollar figure 
and highest number of increased gifts was 
offered. AIESEC won both categories and 
received $200 for their efforts.
The money raised from student phona
thons is used for capital projects on campus 
such as classrooms, laboratories, and office 
renovations, as well as financial aid.
This years total alumni donation goal is 
$3.1 million.
A complete professional 
computer-aided design and 
drafting system for only 59,995,
For architects, engineers, system designers and others who require 
a low-cost design and drafting capability
Includes:
 The Texas Instruments 
Professional Computer 
with 256K memory
 Dual 320K disk Drives
 Color Display and 
Graphics Board
 Numerical Co-Processor, 
Digitizer and Plotter
 AutoCAD Software 
with advanced drafting 
package
 Initial Training and Support
The capabilities of the Ti/AutoCAD design and drafting system 
can only be appreciated bjrtryinp it for yourself We invite you to 
visit our showroom fora hands-on demonstration
(^//computer 
RESEARCH inc
AUTO m
'not including tax
Two Airport Office Park 
(Near Greater Pittsburgh Airpc 
400 Rouser Road 
Pittsburgh. PA 15108
(4121 262-4430

---------------------------------------------------

>w*wewee*ee*wwwwi*lWWWWWIII^
(weiiijtiii :~ : ; i'v'rj~: y r 11 r r f f
Our driver* earry less than $20.00; Limited delivery
area.
01983 Dominos Pizza, Inc.
r30 minute guarantee
If your pizza does not arrive within 30 minutes, present this coupon to the driver for 
$3.00 off.One coupon per pizza
Fast, Free Delivery310 N. Craig St.
 Phone:681-1700

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1984The TartanPage 5
EMS, Housing, and Senate sponsor CPR course
Bv DIANA MELAMID
Tartan Staffwritrr
Thirty-eight CMU studertts took part in a 
Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation course on 
Saturday, March 3.
'The course was sponsored jointly by the 
Emergency Medical Service (EMS), the 
housing office, and Student Senate and 
taught by four CMU-EMS members: Gerry 
Vaerwyck (president of EMS arid a certified 
Paramedic), Mike Gilmore (vice-president 
of EMS), Mark Sander (Captain), and Rob 
Schnorr.
The CPR course, which served as a com
pliment to the first aid course that EMS 
offered last semester, was held in Morewood 
Rec Room. Many students were there to be 
recrdfied, since certification lasts only 
twelve months. The six-hour course 
included one and two-man CPR, mouth-tomouth resuscitation, and CPR for infants 
and children.
The EMSs purpose is to help improve 
the already existing emergency care that is 
provided by CMU police. One way this is 
accomplished is through education, like the
CPR course that was recently offered. There 
are presently 17 active EMS members, of 
whom one is a paramedic, four are Emer
gency Medical Technicians, and four are 
training for the EMT exam.
There is an EMS member on call 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week. EMS personnel are 
present at every buggy freeroll and push 
practice and will be on duty during Spring 
Carnival. Members of the organization run
regularly with the Swissvale Ambulance 
Corp. and hope to be called to all emergen
cies in which Campus Police officers are 
involved.
The club, established last year, is slowly 
but surely making its presence known on 
campus. The members are working to real
ize the clubs purpose of increasing emer
gency care available to the campus, both 
through service and education.
Skiho flood causes trouble
photo by Mike Pilewski
ikibos water shut-off Wednesday prevented Kiltie from serving most beverages.
Last week in
Senate
Introduced by Pat Schmitt  Expressing 
e need in Skibo amd on campus in general 
)r an area where students can meet and 
rialize away from the pressures of classes 
Whereas, it has come io the attention of 
e student body as a whole that the status of 
e area in Skibo currently known as the 
'acuity Dining Room is being re-examined, 
nd
Whereas, it has long been recognized that 
ere is a shortage of recreational space for 
tudents in Skibo, our Student Union, 
nd on the campus as a whole, THEREORE BE IT
RESOLVED, by the representatives of the 
[TUDENTS OF CARNEGIE-MELLON 
UNIVERSITY, in STUDENT SENATE
ssembled, that we do not support the exclu)n of students from any areas in Skibo. 
passed by a majority voice-vote.
By HOLLY BIERTEMPFEL
Tartan Staffivriter
Flooding in Skibo caused water to be shut 
off in Kiltie Cafe last Monday.
According to Bob Choate, Director of 
University Dining Services, water was rising 
to a dangerous level near a transformer in 
the basement of Skibo, and the water had to 
be shut off.
Physical Plant was unavailable for 
comment.
Juice and soft drinks could not be pre
pared from concentrate, and lunch and 
dinner were served on paper plates due to
the lack of watei* Dining Services staff 
planned cold meals in case loss of electricity 
to the building would make them unable to 
prepare the hot lunch and dinner entrees.
We cant lock the doors to the campus 
when problems arise, said Choate. We 
must continue to provide the food and ser
vice that people expect.
The water had to be shut off again on 
Wednesday due to the same problems. 
According to Choate, Such major prob
lems can be expected to occur at least once 
during the school year. We have to deal with 
problems as they come.
EPARTMENT OF SECURITY 
CRIME RESPONSES
Total Total Total
Engineering Grads:
Computer Science/Computer Engineering/Electrical Engineering
JOIN THE FASTEST GROWING INDUSTRY IN ELECTRONICS TODAY
DATA COMMUNICATIONS
tature of callFeb83 Feb84Yr
ssault5319obbery0210ifeent exposure006rglary0119fcft2620213rspass3013
uspi(ious person(s)1328229'isorderlv conduct5450authorized person(s)49115tranks
I brassniem3
53g19
60I inb threat022
<9/V. <9-a o0o 
<
Youve worked hard getting ready to play an 
active role in the great technological develop
ments of the 1980s. And when graduation 
comes, we think outstanding young engineers 
should have an outstanding place to grow.
For over 28 years, dynamic growth has kept 
Racal-Milgo on the leading edge of communi
cations technology. Were planning to stay there 
the best way we know...by cultivating individual 
achievement.
We encourage our engineers to think creatively. 
To turn their innovative ideas into successful 
products in an atmosphere of friendly, profes
sional teamwork. We provide them with the 
industrys most challenging and rewarding 
responsibilities. And one of the nations most 
advanced engineering facilities.
When you work at Racal-Milgo, we work with you. 
In your first year, our Rotation Program gives you 
the opportunity to get involved in all our product 
areas  modems, multi
plexers, sophisticated net
work management systems, 
and more. To help you find 
the engineering areas that 
interest you the most.
expanding to meet evolving data communica
tions needs, our facilities are also growing. An allnew corporate headquarters is currently near 
completion in Broward County, one of the nations 
fast-growing electronics centers. This 100-acre 
complex will give us even greater flexibility to 
accommodate future growth.
Broward is at the center of Floridas Gold Coast, 
an area famous for year-round sunshine and 
recreation. But those are only the most obvious 
aspects of South Florida. Its multi-faceted life
style is state-of-the-art, with all the elements of a 
bright, productive future.
We offer a competitive compensation/benefits 
package, of course. But best of all, we provide a 
stimulating environment to get your career 
started in the right direction. And our double 
track career program lets you choose your own 
path into technical leadership or executive man
agement.
Racal-Milgo: the growing 
alternative
Just as our product line is
Stop by and talk to us:
Monday, 
April 2nd
On-Campus interviews
If you want to put your de
gree in computer science, 
electronics, or electrical 
engineering to work for you, 
call your Career Placement 
Office today. Make your ap
pointment for an interview, 
and look into the future with 
Racal-Milgo.
Racal-Milgo
7800 W. Oakland Park Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 33321 Telephone (305) 748-3507
Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

VOTE VOTE
Wednesday March 14 Thursday March 15
9:30 a.m.9:30 p.m.
Skibo
THE ARMY ROTC 2-YEAR PROGRAM. UP TO S1.000 A YEAR PLUS A COMMISSION.
It you passed up Army 
ROTC d uring vour first two 
years ot college, you can 
enroll in our 2-year pro
gram before you start your 
last two.
Your training will.start 
the summer after your 
sophomore year at a six-week 
Army ROTC Basic Camp
It'll pay off, too. You'll 
earn over $600 tor attend
ing Basic Camp and un to 
$ 1,000 a year for your last 
two years of college.
But, more important, 
you'll he on your way to earn
ing a commission in today's 
Army which includes the 
Army Reserve and Army 
National Guard  while you're 
earning a college degree.ARMY ROTC.BE ALLYOU CAN BE.
all
ou can 
e at CMU
risit
apt. Michael Schultz 
econd Basement, 
fargaret Morrison 
17, MMC
or
11: 578-2205
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Get that Greats Look
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
 
NO
APPOINTMENT
NECESSARYEHPECJTiOnS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
Student Government President 
Student Senators 
Referendum for $5 per semester 
increase in Student Acdvity fee
VOTE VOTE

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
$ARC to hold conference
Workshops tell about getting a job, strategies for promotion, writing good resume
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor 
One problem a lot of people have today is 
finding a job. And even if theyve secured 
one, is it the right job for them? Then theres 
also the question of how to advance up the 
ladder.
Well, dont lose any more sleep over these 
and similar questions. Why? Simply put, 
the Student-Alumni Relauons Council 
(SARC) and the Pittsburgh Mens and 
Womens Clans are sponsoring their annual 
business conference.
Entitled Managing your career: skills 
and strategies for getting ahead, the confer
ence is slated to be held at the end of March. 
According to Anthony Gale, SARCs direc
tor of Alumni Relations, The conference is 
not for students alone  those hunting for 
jobs. Its also for the alumni and any others 
interested. After all, SARC pulls students 
together with alumnists.
Gale points out an interesting note  the 
conference consists of a series of workshops, 
not lectures. We sat down and realized that 
if the lectures were usually successful in the 
past, then workshops would be more so 
now. After all, a workshop setting is much 
more intimate. People get a lot out of it  
its very two-way. 
This years topic was planned a while 
ago. Delegates from SARC and the Mens 
and Womens Clans got together to figure 
out what the most pertinent topic would be. 
It had to be broad enough to include a var
iety of ideas but not so broad as to be vague.
by Eric Targan
Anthony Gale
The conference also needed to consist of 
specific aims that would draw people to it 
but not too specific as to exclude them.
The job was a tough one, but between us 
and both Clans we finally narrowed down 
the ideas to our present one. Then came the 
task of finding people to come and speak. 
That was a little tougher, states Gale.
A variety of subjects dealing with the job 
market will be discussed in the workshops. 
Topics will include evaluating your per
sonal skills, strategies for promotion, writ
ing a good resume, the changing workplace, 
and others.
The main aims of the conference, says 
Gale, are fourfold. These workshops apply 
to those interested in finding a summer job, 
those seniors about to graduate, students 
who have graduated a short time ago and 
alumni that could be re-entering the market 
or going from one job to another. Basically, 
anyone looking for employment or a way to 
make their present job better should attend.
SARC, in this joint venture with the 
Clans, hopes to draw at least 50-75 students 
on the day of the conference. Saturday was 
chosen to hold the workshops not only 
because of the way its been done in the past 
but also because a Saturday is the best time 
for most people.
The workshops will run from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. on March 31 with several breaks in 
between. For more information, contact 
Susan Hernandez, Associate Director 
Alumni Relations at x2060. Reservations are 
a must.
Apple demonstrates its latest brainchild the Macintosh
By JESSICA S. RUDNICK
Tartan Staffwriter
On Saturday, February 18th, and Sunday, 
February 19th, a demonstration of Apples 
latest brainchild, was held downtown at the 
Buhl Science Center. At the gathering, 
Apple explained the rationale of the Mac 
[and those attending were encouraged to try 
jit and the other Apple machines. The public 
left the demo, if not completely sold on the 
Mac, at least with a greater understanding of 
it.
Apples premise in designing the Macin
tosh was to create a computer that would 
appeal to and could be easily mastered by a 
novice user. They believe they have pin
pointed the user as opposed to the
tines allows consistency and speed in the 
user interface. Since the high-resolution 
screen takes up 22K of RAM, Apple decided 
to build the Mac with 128K, so that memory 
would not be a constraint on what could be 
done with the computer. The Mac uses a 
customized version of the Sony 3'A inch 
MicroFloppydisk, which can store 400 kilo
bytes of information.
The unifying feature of the Mac is the 
mouse, a one-button pointing device that 
rolls around on the tabletop, and the key
board, a standard 58-key detachable model, 
that complete the user interface. Almost 
everything can be done using the mouse.
The Mac is considered second genera
tion Lisa technology. The Lisa was
Apples hot creation last year, and although 
it never sold that well, it had several of what 
might be considered the Macs nice features. 
The difference between the two machines 
are: 1) The Mac runs at 7.83 MHz; the Lisa 
runs at 5 MHz with the same microproces
sor. This allows the Mac to complete the 
same task in less time. 2) The Mac uses its 
memory more efficiently because its subrou
tines are written in 68000 assembly laguage, 
as opposed to the Lisas, which were written 
in Pascal. 3) The Macallows only one major 
application to run at a time, which is a 
disadvantage compared to the Lisa.
There is a lot of good in the Macintosh. It 
is compact, clever, and cute. But the Mac has 
its share of drawbacks too. First, it is too
expensive to be a viable computer option for 
most average families interested in buying a 
machine for home use. It is also possible that 
young engineers and the like that can afford 
it might think the Mac to sweet and simple 
for them. This leads to the second problem. 
The mouse is a good idea, but limiting the 
user to exclusive use of it could prove to be 
frustrating, irritating, and time consuming. 
And finally, the basic system comes with 
only one disk drive (unbelievable but true), 
which requires extensive, annoying con
stant disk swapping maneuvers.
Apple has done well by itself with the 
Mac. It may not be exactly what they wanted 
to create, but it is a step in the right direction.
Gosling builds
By W.J. HANSEN
Special to the Tartan
James Gosling, developer of the most 
popular version of EM ACS for Unix, is now 
building wm and be, as the user interface for 
the ITC workstation. He talked about this 
interface at the most recent ITC/CDEC 
seminar last week.
To describe wm and be let me recall that 
the user visible parts of the workstation are 
the keyboard, the mouse, and the mega
pixel bitmapped display. This screen is far 
bigger than standard glass teletypes. The 
display screen can show 52 lines of 128 char
acters each, when none of the screen is taken 
up with pictures.
With so much screen space, it is nice to be 
able to have several different items on screen 
at once. For example, I can have this article 
in the lower left two-thirds of my screen with 
the system command reader above it. On the 
right I could have a list of the files in my 
current directory and a clock (analog, not 
digital). The clock can be set so it will begin 
flashing when it is time for me to go home.
Wm is the traffic cop hat divides the 
screen into areas for the programs I want to 
be running. Each area is called a window;
acker, and produced the computer that 
Wl provide the average person with the 
a Vantages once reserved for the hard-core 
COmPuter fanatics. Now you can have a 
computer, use it, understand it, and not need 
any advanced knowledge to do so.
e heart of the Mac is its Motorola 68000 
^Coprocessor. The speed of this microproessor allows the Mac to have high speed 
on lts 9-inch video monitor. 64Kof 
nicely binds together the system and 
US(r interface. This toolbox of subrouwm, be for ITC workstation
thus wm is short for window manager.
In addition to splitting the screen, wm 
assists programs written for the system. It 
displays characters in any of (right now) 
some 50 fonts and draws lines betweeen any 
two points. The clock face, for example is 
made of 21 lines and 48 dots. Another service 
wm provides is to decide which programs 
get keystrokes from the keyboard and button 
pushes from the mouse.
The mouse is generally used to point to 
items on the screen. I can point to the start 
and end of a phrase and then erase it with 
one keystroke. By pointing at a line between 
windows, I can pick it up and move it to 
make the window on one side bigger aiid the 
other smaller.
When I press the middle button on the 
mouse, a rectangle temporarily replaces the 
part of the screen I am pointing at. It con
tains a menu, a list of operations I can ask 
to occur. For example, when using be I can 
ask to cut the cunendy selected phrase, paste 
in the most recently cut item, rewrite the file, 
exit, or even change the appearance of the 
current phrase: bold, italic, bigger, indented, 
etc.
So what is be? It is an editor designed toJames Gosling
serve as a ?asis for applications; thus, it is a 
true text editor because it moves words from 
line to line so each line is as full as it can be. 
As a basis for applications, the most impor
tant property is that text cut from one win
dow can be pasted in another.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanMarch 13, 1984
Movement Extravaganza to be innovative
By DOUG OTT
Special to the Tartan
The percussion musicians at stage left 
play a mystical, oriental rhythm with flute 
and chimes. The spotlight focuses on centerstage where a muscular black man dressed 
in white hakama kneels before four concrete 
slabs set on a platform. He jumps to his feet 
in a low, strong stance, bellows, and breaks 
the four slabs with his forehead.
Thats only the introduction to the Move
ment Extravaganza of the Martial Arts, an 
innovative traveling stage production that 
features members of the CMU Martial Arts 
Club. The Movement Extravaganza, differ
ent from other martial arts demonstrations, 
is explained by Curtis Smith, the shows 
founder and coordinator. Most people are 
used to the Bruce Lee movies and routine 
board-breaking demonstrations. Our show 
offers all the speed, power, and grace of the 
arts, the beauty of the movements, and their 
philosophical and cultural meanings in 
addition to their combat effectiveness.
Smith, a third degree black belt instructor 
of Karate and Ju-Jitsu, commented, The 
Extravanza has three objectives: one, to educate the public about the martial arts; two, to 
provide exposure for a broad spectrum of 
different world cultures; and three, to enter
tain the audience. The success of the third 
goal is always assured. The Extravaganza, 
sponsored by AB Lectures in September, 
1981, drew a record crowd to the Ballroom.
The format of the Extravaganza combines 
a narra dve history, a professional drum 
troupe, and a cast of talented martial artists 
from around the world. The narrator con
veys the origins, purpose and philosophy of 
the arts. Renowned musicians Cecil Valdez 
Washington and Company provide the per
cussion rhythms which accentuate the mar
tial artists strikes and movements. The 
artists perform exhibitions of weaponry 
forms, chi (international strength), and 
advanced skills. Highlights include nunchaku, spear, and sickle forms, tension brea
thing, hand reflex drills, bed of nails, and 
breaking. Also performed will be choreo
graphed skits depicting self-defense situa
tions for women, children, and senior 
citizens and advanced self-defense tactics 
against multiple opponents.
The variety of martial arts among world
cultures is virtually unlimited. According to ters, having earned a History degree in lmer
Smith, All cultures have martial art. He national Studies from the University 0[ 
speaks with some authority on cultural matcontinued on page g
Mb
Curtis Smith (1) and Andy Hahn (r) prepare for Extravaganza.
Sooner Or Later 
Youll Get Responsibility Like This. 
In The Navy Its Sooner.
Youre maneuvering 
445 feet of guided 
missile frigate through 
the navigational 
hazards and non-stop 
traffic of one of the 
worlds busiest ports.
But youll dock 
safely. Because you 
know your equipment.
You know your men. And even when the 
responsibility weighs in at 3,600 tons... 
youre ready.
After four years of college, youre 
ready for more responsibility than most 
civilian jobs offer. Navy officers get the 
kind of job and responsibility they want, 
and they get it sooner.
Navy officers are part of the manage
ment team after 16 weeks. Instead of boot 
camp, officer candidates 
receive four months 
of leadership training.
Its professional school
ing designed to sharpen 
their technical and 
management skills.
Then, in their first 
assignment, Navy 
officers get manage
ment experience that 
could take years in 
private industry. And 
they earn the decision
making authority it 
takes to make that 
responsibility pay off.
As their manage
ment abilities grow, 
Navy officers can take 
advantage of advanced education and 
training in fields as varied as operations 
management, electronics, and systems 
analysis. In graduate school it would cost 
you thousands; in the Navy we pay you.
And the Navy pays well. The start
ing salary is $17,000 (more than most 
companies pay). And thats on top of a 
comprehensive benefits program that 
can include special duty pay. After four 
years, with regular 
promotions and pay in
creases, the salary is up 
to as much as $31,000.
If you qualify to 
be an officer in the 
Navy, chances are you 
have what it takes to 
succeed. The Navy just 
makes it happen faster.
rI
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 344
INFORMATION CENTER
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? I'd rather have responsibility sooner. Tfell me more about the Navy's officer program. (0G)
Name______________________________________________First (Please Print) Last
Address_________________________Apt. #___________
City___________________State____________Zip________
Age________tCollege/University____________________
tYear in College________________*GPA________________
AMajor/Minor_______________________________________
Phone Number_(Area Code) Best Time to Call
This ia for general recruitment information You do not have to fur
nish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we 
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.
i

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1984The TartanPage 9
"Unique structure
By LAUREN SCHNEIDER
Special to The Tartan
The general goal of the CMU Peace 
Alliance is to foster a respect for peace. To 
achieve this goal, the Alliance employs a 
unique organizational structure.
It is comprised of research groups, each 
coordinated by a member of the Alliance 
who researches particular peace issues and 
presents the findings to the rest of the 
Alliance and the campus community in gen
eral. By enhancing the publics knowledge 
of relevant peace issues, the Alliance encour
ages activism on these issues.
The International Relations Committee, 
coordinated by Martin Stacey, aims to put 
the powers between the superpowers into a 
wider context by examining world conflict 
from other nations perspectives. The group 
is presently studying the societies, econo
mies, and internal and external politics of 
the nations of Central America.
The U.S. Policy-making Committee 
examines the manner in which the United 
States has arrived at its current nuclear wea
pons policy position, and attempts to 
increase the publics understanding of this 
position. Coordinated by Richard Wallstein, the group meets every two weeks to 
discuss mutually agreed upon readings.
The Weapons Technology Committee is
peace
headed by Ed Clarke and monitors informa
tion about weapons and related 
technologies.
What are the Soviets international poli
cies anyway? The Soviet Policy-making 
Committee approaches existing Soviet foreign policy and the body of attitudes sur
rounding it with a spirit of critical and 
opening inquiry. Dan Rosenblum heads 
this committee.
The Arts Committee, coordinated by Joe 
Hasper, attempts to communicate the need 
for peace to our society through the arts. 
There are wide latitudes for activities of this 
particular committee and interested persons 
are welcome to bring them ideas.
The United Campuses to Prevent 
Nuclear War held a University Lobby to 
End the Arms Race on Wednesday, March
7 in Washington. The Peace Alliance, along 
with the Pitt Arms Race Study Group and 
several other campus peace groups, partic
ipated.
The Platform for the day was:
Cut off funding for testing and deploy
ment of nuclear weapons systems, conting
ent on reciprocal Soviet action;
Call for negotiations with the USSR on 
treaties to establish a mutual, verifiable 
freeze on nuclear weapons, and to ban test
ing of antisatellite and space-based AntiExtravaganza seeks to show 
its influence on cultures
continued from page 8
Pittsburgh. What is interesting, and what 
the Extravaganza seeks to show, is how the 
fighting arts are influential toward the cul
ture and vice-versa. The show has featured 
authentic performances of Thailand kick 
boxing, Ukrainian Cossack sword fighting, 
Caribbean stick play, African foot fighting, 
Brazilian Capoeira, and a Samoan fire 
ritual.
Even though we like to bring in other 
artists to display their talents, explains 
Smith, the Movement Extravaganza has a 
core group of very versatile performers. 
They are: Master Andy Hahn, 1977 AAU 
Tae-Kwon-Do fighting champion and 
founder of the CMU Martial Art Club; 
Tony Haddad, instructor of Chin-Na and 
Ho Chin Pi Kung-Fu; Ruriko Masutani, 
renowned teacher of the graceful artform 
Aikido; Glenn Hairston, expert in several 
styles of Karate and Tai-Chi and practioner 
of dynamic tension breathing; Robert 
Opalsky, Tae-Kwon-Do black belt and 
instructor of the CMU Martial Art Club;
and Joe DeMar, black belt instructor of ju
jitsu.
Of course, the most integral member of 
the Extravaganza is Smith, its founder. 
Three times the district and the regional 
champion in AAU Karate, he was also a 
silver medalist in the AAU Karate Weapons 
Category in 1977. Smiths prestige as a mar
tial artist has involved him in a number of 
demonstrations, seminars, and TV and 
radio appearances. This experience gave 
Smith the idea for a much larger stage pro
duction, entirely choreographed and set to 
music.
While in Africa during the summer of 
1978, Smith studied African foot fighting. 
The exchange of information between him
self and his African mentors showed Smith 
that although they were from different cul
tures and their art forms had different subtle
ties, their needs were the same. He knew 
then that his large stage production must 
emphasize this cultural focus.
Extravaganza skits frequently depict a 
continued on page 18
Ballistic Missile (ABM) systems.
The Peace Alliance also lobbied for im
mediate cutoff of funds for the MX, B-l, and 
deployment of cruise and Pershing II miss
iles.
This lobby day was endorsed by several 
leading national peace groups: Nuclear 
Weapons Freeze Campaign, Union of Con
cerned Scientists, Freedom of American Sci
entists, SANE, Coalition for a new foreign 
and Military Policy.
The Peace Alliance newsletter is available 
to all those interested. If you want to receive 
the newsletter in the mail, contact the Peace 
Alliance, c/o Felicia Pratto, Psychology
Department. A $3 contribution is requested. 
If youd like to receive the newsletter online 
just send mail to AH35@CMCCTD with 
your computer address.
Meetings are usually held on atJtemate 
Wednesdays at 5 p.m., though different meet
ing times are being considered in order to 
give the greatest number of interested faculty, 
staff, and students the chance to get 
involved.
Membership on all Peace Alliance Com
mittees is open to everyone in the campus 
community. They are designed to be educa
tional for the committee members, as well as 
the entire campus.
photo by Bob Fishel
Unfortunately, this type of weather is not behind us.
Want to get Involved??
CIA
CARNEGIE INVOLVEMENT ASSOCIATION
SPRING CARNIVAL
BUGGY GAME BOOTH PARTIES RACQUETBALL
IF ANY OF THESE INTEREST YOU. WE ARE 
LOOKING FOR GOOD PEOPLE TO:
PUSH BUGGIES 
MAINTAIN BUGGY 
HANDLE BUGGIES
CREATE A BOOTH 
BUILD A BOOTH 
KEEP STATISTICS
JUST HAVE SOME FUN
MEETING: TUES. MARCH 27th 
skibo room 11, 9:30pm
EVERYONE WELCOME
All-nighters are bad enough, but this is ridiculous.
photo ot non rishelfunded by activities fe

---------------------------------------------------

\ 1 y100 WATTS
W R C T
100 WATTS
8 8 o 3
PROGRAM GUID
WRCT News every 9am, Noon, 3pm, and 6pm 
SUNDAY
Crestea\Iguana
w/Ann
Classi ca1 
Space
The
/Cai i forni a Beat
w/ Importer
Modern Pock 
Progress 1 ve 
New Wave.
/Turn It Up\
Dance Noise' for Young 
Paramours
[Progress ive.Funk kAvanteGarde. Dance,
Dynami c Vegi tation
w/Norman
.Hardcore .New \Space,
\Po 1 kas !
MONDAY
re Will A1 
Go Together
w/Eric Blair
Anything but Reggae
Ha World 
w/Mark Edwards1
Wave, Comedy Progress i ve.
Idies
New Wood 
w/Peter
Folk. etc.
Aural 
Hygiene
w/Mr. Clean
Avante-GardeProgress ive, Space
The 
Jump i n'
Show
[E xper 1 men ta 1 New Mus i c,
RSB .F unk
n Style 
w/Joe StaffordI 9)**krogressive Stuffi 
and Fus i on
Morphic 
Resonance w/Chris KAvante-Garde IContemporary . jE xper S menta 1 ilectroni
Guts and Passion w/Bambi
Punk. Post-Punk ivante-Gard
3a. 7X
Request Lines: 578-2
TUESDAY 
Anarchy 
in the AM 
v/ l. P.
Punk ,Hardcore Ska
Storm Warni ng
w/Steve Storm
Punk .IHardcore. Reggae lew Wave .01dies
No Soap 
Radi o
w/Jo-L
F unk .Fusi on f Progressive ass ica
;est Thin<
Since Wipped
v Creamw/Bob^the Aqua Madonnasy 
pop. Jazz
OH MY 
w/Mr. Nobody
Rock ' n' Rol 1
Thund wi th Th
\p r ogrns! 
Hard 
Oidi
raw
The Ble
aij[M i X i ng
Sty
> mw(
Dice
Hamstfl
w/Fr
|S trangij
Rock, 
01d|
Unsi 
and
wfi
I ndusl
3^1
Ait1
iKVfKi iiriofiiflH rriKhsjig VT *

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Showman Billy Joel to play Civic Arena
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Asst. Entertainment Editor
To many, 1984 may be remembered as the 
vear of the concerts. Although we are hardly 
well into the year, there have already been 
two major sold out concerts (namely Neil 
Diamond and Van Halen, both 
at the Gvic Arena), and there are 
three more sold-out shows on 
the way: Billy Joel, John Cou
gar Mellencamp, and Culture Club.
This seems to show a new trend in popu
lar music; the listening audience is growing, 
and thus more profits are coming to those in 
the field. In fact, it is concert appearances 
which net the greatest amount of money for 
the performer; royalties from album sales, 
often do not add up to much.
Sure, there are other forms of income. For 
example, the Jacksons signed a multi
million dollar contract with Pepsi Cola to 
appear in Pepsi commercials, as well as to 
allow Pepsi to promote the Jacksons 
summer tour. Ticket prices for the tour are 
rumored to cost between 20 and 25 dollars 
piece, of which a substantial percentage will 
be split among the Jacksons, Pepsi, and 
promoter Don King. Pepsi has, just recently, 
also signed Lionel Richie for a similar con
tract, which Richie said is at least equal to 
Michael Jacksons $5 million contract.
But these contracts are rare examples of 
external forms of income for todays popu
lar music artists. Instead, many simply rely 
on their own personal talent and charisma 
to make money via live performances. Such
Billy Joels appearance in Pittsburgh promises to be another crowd-pleasing concert. Joels 
latest album garnered him three Grammy nominations.
is the case with Billy Joel, appearing next 
Saturday at the Civic Arena.
Joels greatest appeal is his songwriting
ability; this reflected by his slew of platinum 
albums and Grammy awards (five at pres
ent) and nominations. And yet Joel is also a
comsummate performer. As stated in the 
Los Angeles Times, Joel is fiery . . . and 
quite a dazzling showman. This statement 
can be verified by anyone who has seen him
live. He is full of energy, scampering about 
the stage, singing to the audience, or just 
playing the piano, and he is able to make a 
smooth transition from a strong rocker to a 
mellow balladeer with little effort.
His upcoming concert promises to be no 
exception; Joels latest album, An Innocent 
Man, has netted Joel three top-10 hits, three 
Grammy nominations (Album and Record 
of the Year, as well as Best Pop Performance 
by a Male), and is full of music just dying to 
be heard live. An Innocent Man is Joels 
tribute to the music of the past, though, as 
he says, Im not living in the past, Im 
celebrating today. In fact Joel himself
promises an entertaining show when he 
says (of An Innocent Man) I decided I 
wanted to have as much fun as I could have, 
and I wanted it to sound like I was having 
fun.
All of us that will be there are planning 
on having fun with Joel. We are looking 
forward to a raucous performance by a mel
low musician. We are looking forward to 
seeing the Piano Man become an Inno
cent Man. But most of all, we are looking 
forward to seeing Billy Joel, and to hearing 
his music. Its no wonder Joels concerts are 
sellouts across the country; he has become 
one of the top vocalists of the decade.
Forbes Gallery shows varied styles, mediums
By KEITH RECKER
Special to the Tartan
Renee Martonik, Claudia Fieo and Riri 
Nakasone will show their work at the 
Forbes Gallery this week. The show begins 
with an opening celebration from 7:00 to
9:00 pm.
Renee Martonik has been working with 
landscape and still life in recent months. 
She brings to these two traditional sets of 
subject matter a painterly concern with the 
marks of the paint on a surface as opposed to 
a faithfulness to the subject matter. Some of 
her work is done from memory of places 
visited. Martonik tries to establish a definite 
mood in each piece I want to impose some 
feeling on the viewer, to affect the viewer, 
usually in an uneasy way. In some of Martoniks recent work, the separate interest in 
still life and landscape have combined;, 
paintings of dormant steel mills resulted.
' I |le huge, looming shapes of smokestacks 
and the colors of aging industrial objects 
combine to fulfill Martoniks goal of mak
ing a mood.
Claudia Fieo will show her prints. The 
goal of much of Fieos work is to make the 
viewer examine closely things which normally go unnoticed. One should take 
nothing for granted in these prints. Figures 
f people which have been abstracted and 
educed to black and white loom out in 
some prints and multi-colored landscapes 
shine from others. One print, This Thing 
ls locking My View, touches on a theme 
which appears in several of Fieos pieces. A 
sPhntered wall of black timbers stretches 
crss the background of the print. Light 
through some of the cracks on the 
all; a feeling of frustration comes from not 
lng able to get around it. The viewer 
^mediately understands the purpose of the 
nr>t, and carries this understanding away.
Nakasone works with woodcuts. She 
^es a great deal of material from her Japaheritage, and works with landscapes 
n^Prtraits. The landscapes, for the most 
were done before the portraits. I 
a great deal about the meaning of
color, texture, and shape when I moved into 
the portraits, says Nakasone. The portraits 
are in either color or in black and white, and 
vary in emotional flavor. Some are peaceful, 
such as Memory. Others are filled with a 
foreboding, almost overwhelming tension,
such as one of the self-portraits included in 
the show. Still others have a lyrical, narra
tive quality, such as Ghost, and a woodcut of a small Japanese girl dreaming of 
exotic foods over nothing more than a small 
sweet potato. The' quality of Nakasones 
woodcuts is rich; even when there is no con
sciously developed narrative, a story still 
fights its way to the surface.
Martonik, Fieo and Nakasone will be at 
the Gallery until March 10. Gallery hours 
are Wednesday"- Fridav,.10-6, and Saturday, 
12-5.
Pittsburgh Opera forms Center; holds auditions
PITTSBURGH, PAGeneral Director 
Tito Capobianco is pleased to announce 
that, in accordance with the policy of the 
Board of Directors of the Pittsburgh Opera, 
conversations have been initiated between 
the Pittsburgh Opera and the music depart
ment of Camegie-Mellon University to 
form the Pittsburgh Opera Center, a special 
training program for young American 
artists.
Mr. Capobianco met recently with 
Richard M. Cyert, president of CamegieMellon University, Akram Midani, dean of 
the college of fine arts, and Harry Franklin, 
head of the music department. The purpose 
of the meeting was to develop a working
plan that will benefit talented young sin
gers, instrumentalists, conductors, stage 
directors, coaches and technical personnel 
who show great potential for professional 
careers. Paricipation from Camegie-Mellon 
University will be a vital element of the 
Pittsburgh Opera Center, which is currently 
in formation.
The Pittsburgh Opera Center is designed 
to follow models of the American Opera 
Center and the San Diego Opera Center, 
founded by Mr. Capobianco at New Yorks 
Juilliard School of Music in 1968 and Cali
fornias San Diego State University in 1977. 
Similar models have been created by the San 
Francisco Opera and the Lyric Opera of
The Core, a band which started in Pittsburgh, will appear at The Decade this Thursday and 
at The Razzberry Rhino on Friday.__________________________________________________
Chicago. The Pittsburgh Opera Center is 
being established to bridge the gap for 
young artists between formal college studies 
and fully-professional careers.
In addition to the alliance with CamegieMellon University, Mr. Capobianco and 
Professor Franklin are studying possibilities 
for including other Pittsburgh musical 
organizations in the opera training pro
gram. By pooling our resources, Mr. 
Capobianco said, we are best able to build 
operas future in Pittsburgh through the 
training of the young talents of today.
The Pittsburgh Opera will also hold 
open auditions for singers who wish to join 
the Pittsburgh Opera Chorus during the 
1984-85 season. Final auditions will be held 
on Saturday, April 14, 1984 from 2-5 p.m. at 
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts.
Conference held
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The University of Pittsburgh is sponsor
ing the eighth annual Writers Conference. 
The Conference, which takes place from Fri
day, March 16 to Sunday, March 18, features 
E.L. Doctorow, Maxine Kumin and Gor
don Lish. The Conference Director is Lee 
Gutkind, and Pittsburgh based writer, Asso
ciate Professor of English and Director of 
the Writing Program at Pitt.
Tickets for the Conference are free to all 
Pitt students, faculty and staff and $5.00 to 
all others. Tickets are only available in 
advance at the University of Pittsburgh 
ticket office in the main floor of the William 
Pitt Union.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 13, 1984
fun and sober concert
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre and Stage Left present "Rose" from March 23 through 
April 14, Thursdays through Sundays, at their 420 North Craig St. Theater.
Islam Grotto
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffivriter
Nothing is as frustrating and pointless as 
going to what should be a fantastic rock 
concert and watching a poor one because 
the musicians are so drunk they cant per
form. Such is the history' of Van 
Halenhide the women and 
ready the drunk tank.
But not this time. Last Wed
nesday night, before sold out Civic Arena, 
this California-based quartet proved they 
are not just a pack of reckless rowdies, they 
are a band who relishes playing to a recep
tive audience. Even in the upper levels the 
crowd was standing through the entire 
show, and with good reasonthe sound 
was strong and clear, the light effects were 
right, the stage setting was an interesting 
mixture of speakers and scaffolding, and the 
band was just plain fun.
David Lee Roth, Van Halens trademark 
stage personality, seemed to enjoy himself 
quite a bit, and was in fact enjoyable to 
watch as he performed his usual kicks and 
leapsat one point while juggling a 
sword  and bantered with the crowd during 
breaks. While a bit hoarse, he was physically 
in good shape and the fans appreciated his 
anticsand his sobriety.
Eddie Van Halen proved beyond any 
shadow of a doubt why he is one of today s 
leading guitar players in his almost-toolong solo, during which he displayed a bar
rage of talents, including speed, twohanded technique, harmonics, and mastery
of other-than rudimentary' scales. Leaving 
most of the hell-raising to partner Roth, 
Eddie sat back and played a very solid show, 
both on guitar and on the few keyboard 
parts.
While Alex Van Halens percussion work 
was adequate if unspectacular, Michael 
Anthonys bass solo must go down as one of 
the worst in recent history. After climbing to 
the top of the girdered set and striking a few 
open notes, he hurled the bass at the stage, 
lept on it, and kicked it several feet, produc
ing a wave of discordant garbage. He closed 
with a few diving shoulder rolls (thank 
goodness for wireless transmitters!).
The numbers flowed together very well 
and included a tasteful mix of cuts from 
1984 and older classics. Hot For Teacher, 
Panama, and in particular Jump were 
well received, as were Running With the 
Devil, Everybody Wants Some, and 
Pretty Woman. A few older tunes were 
dissapointingly absent, however, including 
SoThis is Love? and Beautiful Girls.
Van Halen has become a class act. By 
abandoning the recklessness that was a large 
part of their initial appeal, they have shed a 
stagnant, dated skin and opened the door to 
longevity. The most touching moment 
came at the end of the regular set before the 
encores when the four band members 
joined hands on stage and bowed in uni
son to the SRO crowd. It was an equal 
participation show, the fans loving the band 
and the band loving the fans. After all, play
ing live is what rock n roll is all about.
The Raybeats and 96 Tears arrive to do dance
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor
Rolling Stone calls them the hottest 
instrumental combo in the U.S. The New 
York Times says they are already pio
neers. Billboard describes them as fun. 
Who is this band and can they justify their 
rave reviews? They are The Raybeats, and 
Pittsburgh will find out just how good they
Allegheny 
Womens Center
(^/com/p 
u/tperlmpg erp.'mur 
mmHoh txjmth (pd 
dmgpmoy fc/m pr/plr 
irh/ u(cr
an out patient 
medical clinic offering
* abortion
* tree pregnancy tests
* personal counseling
* birfh control services
* gynecological tare
* Mormng Alter Irejtment
362-2920
are when they play the Islam Grotto, Friday 
March 23.
The show is part of a -15-date tour and 
coincides with a brand-new video and The 
Raybeats recent LP release Its Only A 
Movie.
The Raybeats were formed in 1979 in the 
Midwest. The tradition of instrumental rock 
dance bands brought Don Christensen, 
Jody Harris, Pat Irwin, and Danny Amis 
together to make an instrumental rock sin
gle and later, an EP and two albums.
The bands sound merges surf music,
Ventures-style rock and roll, punk, funk, 
psychedelia, jazz, and avant-garde into 
inventive dance music. Were a dance 
band, said Irwin, co-founder of the group, 
and when people hear us we want them to 
get up and dance.
The Islam Grotto is practically custommade for dancing, with a huge, open floor 
that Pat McArdle, promoter of the Islam 
Grotto, described as the biggest dance floor 
in the city.
96 Tears, one of Pittsburghs most popu
lar local bands, will open for The Raybeats.
96 Tears shared the bill with the B.E. Taylor 
Group at an AB Dance last October, and 
according to McArdle, it is rumoured to be 
their last show.
All ages are welcome to the performan 
next Friday, and tickets are available 
advance for $5 at Jims, Heads Together,
Eides, record Recycler, Garbage Records, 
and Record Graveyard. Tickets will be $6at 
the door.
The Public to hold Director's Forum
Allegheny romens Center.
Medical Center last Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Pittsburgh Public Theater Artistic Direc
tor Larry Arrick will be guest speaker at the 
Directors Forums to be held on Sunday, 
March 18, at 5 p.m., and Saturday, March 
31, at 5:30 p.m., immediately following the 
matinee performances of NORA-JULIEon
Did you ever consider serving as a
priest?
...( lmfr eoylr /f 
u/mmmomrpo (pd 
erlf ftlfmllmrpo?
Call:
Father Rudolph Silvers
Vocations Office
412/456-3070 
or write:
Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh
i l l Boulevard of 4be Allies Pittsburgh, PA 15222
those dates. Directed by Mr. Arrick, NORAJULIE is Ingmar Bergmans adaptation 
and coupling of Henrik Ibsens A DOLLS 
HOUSE and August Strindbergs MISS 
JULIE. This is the English language as well 
as the American premiere of this landmark 
production. Both A DOLLS HOUSE and 
MISS JULIE are classic dramas that have 
influenced much of the theater of the twen
tieth century.
The Directors Forum on Sunday, March 
18, will be interpreted for the deaf. Both of 
the Direcors Forums are open to the public 
free of charge, rhose not attending the mati
nee performances should plan to arrive no 
later than 5 p.m. on March 18, and no later 
than 5:30 p.m, on March 31. Seating will be 
on a first-come basis.
. WOUJARO _JownsonJ
WHERE DO YOU 
SEND VISITORS?
Howard Johnsons Motor Lodge in Oakland 
"WeVe Changed SEEING IS BEUEVINGI
STOP IN AND VISIT OR CALL 
WE'D LOVE TO SHOW YOU AROUND
683-6100
3401 Blvd. of Allies Pittsburgh 15213
Van Halen finally gives

---------------------------------------------------

Ice Tartans fall in O.T. to Dukes in playoffs
By MIKE HALLORAN
Special for the Tartan
On Wednesday night, the defending 
champion Camegie-Mellon Hockey team 
played host to the number two seeded 
Duquesne University in the semi-finals of 
the WPCHA playoffs. The Tartans came 
into the game confident after already beat
ing Duquesne twice in the regular season. 
However, the Dukes proved to be the hung
rier team by posting a 4-3 victory in overtime 
before a packed house at Lakeview Ice 
Arena.
CMU came out strong in the first period 
and quickly took a 1 -0 lead when Eric Spray 
put in a rebound of a Tim Kenny slapshot 
just 30 seconds into the game. Less than two 
minutes later though, the Dukes tied the 
game 1-1 when Captain Rich Rupp beat 
CMUs Bob Kosakowski on a breakaway 
with a wrist shot. CMU roared back into the 
lead when Captain Andy Andrejko 
unleashed a slapshot that fooled the 
Duquesne goaltender. Both teams played 
intense but conservative hockey, each team 
waiting for the other to make a mistake. 
With less than three minutes left in the first 
period, the game was again tied by Rupp 
when he snuck a wrist shot past the screened 
CMU Goalie.
The second period was all Duquesnes as 
CMU played virtually shorthanded the 
entire twenty minutes. With defenseman 
Tim Carlin in the penalty box due to a 10 
minute misconduct, Duquesnes Pete Flana
gan scored to give the Dukes the lead 3-2 
after two periods.
CMU came out for the third period know
ing that it would be their last 15 minutes of 
the season if they couldnt score. They knew
The play was frenzied around the net in the
what they had to do and before Duquesne 
had a chance to savor their lead, Kevin 
Scully took a pretty give-and-go from win
ger Caleb Corkery, and drilled a wrist shot 
past the Duquesne goalie to lock the game at 
3-3. Both teams played all out the remainder 
of the period, but neither team was able to
Tartans loss to the Dukes.
capitalize. At the end of regulation time the 
score was still 3-3 and the tension built as the 
teams went into sudden death overtime.
CMU never really got moving and had 
trouble breaking out of their own end. As a 
result, the Dukes kept their composure and 
dominated play. At 5:48 of . the overtime
photo by Steve Winawer
period CMUs season came to an end when 
the Dukes Joe Barbara put a rebound past 
Kosakowski to give Duquesne the victory 
It was a disappointing loss, though the 
Tartans had nothing to be ashamed of. 
They won their division and played strong 
all year long.
West Penn Conference 
Final Hockey Standings
by Steve Winawer
Goalie Bob Kosakowski looks dejected after the season ended for CMU.
Tartan Sports Schedule
Greater Pitt. Div.WL
CMU153
Duquesne144
West Virginia810
Bethany810
PSU-McKeesport512
West Penn. Div.WL
Gannon162
IUP117
Slippery Rock108
AJlegheny116
Wheeling117
Championship game: Duquesne vs.Gannon
GAPTS.
3730
5928
9016
10516
11311GAPTS.
5032
65oo
9920
1163
2242
.
photo bv Stfw Winawrt
Mar. 13-15 
Mar. 21-23 
Mar. 21-24 
Mar. 24 
Mar. 31 
April 4 
April 11
April 11
1 p.m. 
April 13SPRING CARNIVAL 1984
W.C tjQ'iCUfclJi'l o .U'aKosakowski lets the pack get by him as the opposition scores.
NCAA Div. Ill Swimming Championships, Atlanta, GA. 
NCAA Div. Ill Fencing Championships, away.
Track, Domino Relays at Gainesville, Fla.
NIWFA Fencing Championships, away.
Lacrosse, at W&J, 2 p.m.
Mens tennis, at Westminster College, 2 p.m.
Track, PAC Relays at Case Western.
Mens Tennis at Theil, 1 p.m.
Golf, PAC Invitational at Hiram, 1 p.m.
Track, vs. W&J and Bethany, at Bethany, 3:30 p.m. 
Mens tennis, at Hiram, 2:30 p.m.
Golf, Invitational, Speidel Country Club,
Wheeling, WV, I p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Candidates for Student Senate President
Bill McCormick Maryann Sacco
For information on presidential candidates see page 1.
Chris GrondwalskiMarc Olin
Edward HughesJohn Pane

---------------------------------------------------

Candidates for Student Senate seat
CIT 4+1 half-term
Francis Fitzgerald
I have served on the Senate for the past 
two semesters. I am currently chairman of 
the finance committee. In this position I 
feel I can serve CIT as well the campus in 
general best. The Senate has a lot to do 
and I think I can play a vital role.
I am urging everybody to vote. 
Remember, this is your Senate and it can
not function without your support.
MCS 2 
During the past year I've met with many 
of my classmates. I've listened to your 
complaints, problems and I've tried to 
answer your questions. I've also tried to
* take your views into account and remain 
available as I will continue to do so in the 
future.
On Senate I've served on both the 
senate finance and general campus and 
| information committees. I feel that during 
this time senate has improved relations 
with both student organizations and the 
student body.
I would like to continue serving you and 
the student body so please vote Michael 
I Bett - MCS Senate. Thank you.
H&SS 2+1 half-term
Peter Cohen
My name is Peter Cohen, and I am run
ning for Student Senate as a representa
tive of H&SS. I took my constituents 
seriously when they nominated me for 
Senate, so I am going to give it my best 
shot. Sure, I may be running just so it will 
look good on my resume, but that's not the 
case. I hope I can help make CMU more 
unified. If I am elected maybe I can help 
Student Senate lower the level of apathy, 
maybe students will develop a sense of 
unity, and maybe we can take Senate 
seriously.
AMS 1
Hilary G. deBroff
Being a senator requires more than just 
being there at Senate meetings to "repres
ent" the students. It means taking an 
active interest in what happens here on 
campus and what's planned for the stu
dents in the future. It means understand
ing the student body, and interpreting their 
wishes without neccessarily getting a lot 
of feedback. Of course, promoting a posi
tive response from the students is a major 
goal. Also important is strengthening the 
Student Senate as a whole and as a body 
of representatives, not individuals out for 
personal gain.
Vote for Senate Happy Hours.
Michael Bett
\v
Paula Patula
Exerpts from Election Procedure
a) In order to vote in a Student 
Government election, a student 
must present a permanent, validated 
CMU I.D.
b) There will be one polling place, 
located in the grey matter of Skibo.
c) There will be three (3) poll workers 
on duty at all times, including at least 
one (1) Election Board member.
d) Poll workers must be informed of 
and follow the rules regarding the
Todd Goldman
y Ta * ?.# > + * *  > * ? * ? * > ^ ? "* i ? ? v* * v *
Steve Weller
As a sophomore majoring in mechanical 
engineering, I am in a good position to 
represent CIT. I have seen CMU over the 
past two years from a number of different 
perspectives. My involvement in the 
mechanical engineering SAC and Student 
Corporation have given me a chance to 
see what can be accomplished. It has 
pointed out a need for the Student Senate 
to set clear goals for the next semester, 
and spend the entire semester working to 
accomplish those goals. Student Senate 
can accomplish a great deal with dedi
cated members. I will be such a member, 
so vote for Steye Weller.
running of the student elections.
e) The ballots will be locked up at 
night.
f) The ballots will be counted within a 
twenty-four (24) hour period after 
the closing of the election polls.
g) The ballots will be counted twice 
by two (2) separate groups, under the 
supervision of the Associate Dean of 
Students.
h) Tentative winners will be notified 
within twenty-four (24) hours after 
the closing of the polls. Final verifica
tion will occur seven (7) days follow
ing the closing of the polls.
Rules and Regulations
a) The limit to campaign funds spent 
shall be thirty-five (35) dollars for a 
candidate for Student Senate, and 
one hundred (100) dollars for a can
didate for President of Student 
Government.
b) Neither the name nor the seal of 
the University or the Student 
Government Corporation is to be 
used on letters or other written 
material in a manner that implies 
Unive4sity or Student Government 
support of a candidate.
c) There is to be no faculty, adminis
tration, or departmental interference 
in the Student Government 
elections.
d) There is to be no campaigning
Diane Weaver
I feel that the Student Senate is an 
important organization in the life of this 
campus. I am running for Senate because I 
want to become a more useful part of the 
University community. By becoming a stu
dent senator I will have the opportunity to 
learn more about this school and the peo
ple involved with it. When elected, I will do 
my best to represent the best interests of 
my fellow students. Remember to vote for 
Diane Weaver for CIT Senate on election 
day.______________________________
Heyl Wait a second!! I knowyou have35 
spare seconds to read this. At least give 
me a chance to introduce myself before 
you burn the whole paper. I know . . . 
everybody always says all kinds of stuff 
just to get elected, but never mean it. Well, 
I'm not gonna do that!
All I'll say is my name is Jeff Soller. I'm 
running for MCS Senate. Vote Greek! Vote 
for me!
I really do appreciate those two votes I 
received in the last election that were 
responsible for my placement on the 
Senate. I am hoping this time around I'll do 
a little better, now that I'm a legitimate 
candidate. I'm not going to feed you a lot of 
garbage about the great advances I've 
made in the relm of CFA representation on 
this campus because I haven't made any. If 
I'm re-elected, I'm going to do what you 
would want any representative to do, and 
that is to cut through the cow poop and get 
down to the business of presenting the 
opinions of CFA.
Jeffrey G. Duer
within a sixty (60) foot radius of the 
polls in Skibo. (This includes the 
entire first floor of Skibo, except the 
Tartan Grill.)
e) A candidate may run for only one 
Student Government office in an 
election.
Penalties 
a) Violation of rules 1 a, 1 b, or 1 c will 
result in a 10% reduction of the can
didate's total vote count.
D) Violation of rule 1 d will result in a 
10% reduction of the candidate's 
total vote count, and will subject the 
candidate to disciplinary action by 
the Election Board
c) Any person caught intentionally 
destroying a candidate's campaign 
material will be charged a twentyfive (25) dollar fine, and will be sub
jected to disciplinary action by the 
Election Board.
d) Any student who attempts to vote 
more than once, or attempts to vote 
for a candidate outside of his or her 
college will be subject to disciplinary 
action by the UDC.
e) Any action by a candidate or his 
supporters which compromises the 
conduct of a fair election will result in 
disciplinary action by the Election 
Board (subject to approval by the 
UDC).

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 13, 1984
Ciminelli untouchable as fencers win three of four
By MAURA SAVINI
Tartan Staffivritrr
The CMU fencers have been busy in the 
last two weeks, winning three of their last 
four matches and doing well in their 
last two tournaments.
The Tartans beat the Penn State  Fayette 
tencers twice. Dunng the match with PSUFayette on Feb. 21st, team captain Tom 
Ciminelli performed unbelievably well, 
winning all his matches and not receiving 
one touch. And, following his lead, Mike 
Cramer, Mark Accetta, and Bob Williamosky also went undefeated. These three 
also remained undefeated during the Feb. 
23rd match with PSU-Fayette, again lead
ing the Tartans to victory.
This week the Tartans fenced California 
University of PA and IUP. Both times the 
CMU team was forced to fence with a small 
team, and they came out on top only once, 
against IUP.
The Tartans fenced Cal St. without some 
of their more experienced fencers, and lost 
by five bouts.
Against IUP, the Tartans mens A team 
won two, the mens B team won one and tied
one, and the womens team lost one and tied
one.
On Sunday, Feb. 19th, the CMU fencing 
staff went to Pitt with some of their new 
team members and students from fencing 
classes. A total of 20 fencers participated in 
this novice tournament, 8 of them from 
CMU. All 8 of these fencers from CMU 
made it to the semi-finals, and seven made it 
to the finals, winning first and second pla
ces. Jamshid Mahdori took a first and Elliot 
Jaffe took a second. Other fencers from 
CMU were Beth Myers, Liz Mushat, Treva 
Formby, Chris Bool, Steve Bailey, and Kevin 
Steele.
A CMU squad travelled to the North 
Atlantic Conference Tourney and took the 
bronze medal with 13 points losing to PSU 
with 16 pts. and NJIT with 13 pts. This is a 
spectacular acheivement for this young 
team.
Kurt Knodts fencing was outstanding, 
giving CMU its first N.A. squad place
ment, Coach Jane Fisk said after the confer
ence tournament.
Cramer, a four-year varsity member, is
The foils touch as CMU fencers battle in Thistle Hall.
awaiting word from the national selection 
committee. He will receive word on the 13 th 
at the NCAA nationals. His chances are very
photo by Todd Prario
good, and his performances have been 
impressive. Fisk has confidence and hopes 
that he will make it.Russian goalie has ideas of playing for Canadians
By Lesley Brunker
Vladislav Tretiak is an elite.
No other Soviet athlete has managed to 
strike such curious appeal, such mys
tique, such respect,and to own a defini
tion of perfection in the 
United States. His name is an 
universal equivalent of goaltending excellence. He has 
seen four Olympiads, winning three gold 
medals and one silver. And now 
speculationrumorruns that he will 
defect and play in Montreal.
Tretiak became a household name 
particularly in Canadaduring the Can
ada Cup games of 1972. The series was to 
total eight games, four in Canada and 
four in the Soviet Union, played by the 
top men from both opposition, with such 
guns as Phil Esposito, Gilbert Perreault, 
and Frank Mahavolich bombing the 
Soviets goaltending.
The opening game was played in hock
eys mecca, the Forum in Montreal, on a 
hot early September evening before a 
roaring home country crown. The 
Soviets won, 7-3, lead by the strong goaltending of army prive Vladislav Tretiak.
Exclaimed Phil Espositio (in his autobi
ography Hockey is My Life, Whoever 
scouted their goalie better look for a new 
job. While Canada did go on to win the 
series four games to three plus a tie, no 
one forgot Tretiak.
He next appeared in the 1976 Olympics 
to take his second gold medal, then in the 
1979 Challenge Cup fiasco. This, like 
the Canada Cup, was to be our best vs. 
their best. Unlike the 72 series, the North 
American team was made up of NHL 
All-Stars hastily assembled in mid-season 
for a three game series. They featured 
such names as Bossy, Trottier, LaFleur 
and Barber. After Splitting the first two 
contests, the Soviets won the rubber 
match, 6-0, with the shutout going to 
Vladimir Myshkin.
Tretiak did not set America on fire in 
1979, but he did take the Soviets to 
another World Championship in a tour
nament in which team USSR both scored 
the most goals (51) while allowing the 
fewestonly 12 against. Tretiak was 
down again in 1980 when he was pulled 
(in favor of Myshkin) with one second 
remaining in the first period of the OlymServe in Appalachia
This summer the Glenmary 
Home Missioners, a society of Catholic priests and Brothers, 
are offering opportunities for Catholic men to serve the poor 
of Appalachia. These volunteer programs will enhance 
your perception of those in 
need. Come and learn with Glenmary. Your choice of 
week-long sessions is avail 
able as follows:
May 19-25,1984 Jane 9-15,1984 
July 21-27,1984 
August 4-10,1984
Name__
College _ 
Address
For more information, please complete the coupon 
below and forward it to: Reverend Jerry Dorn, Glen
mary Home Missioners, Box46404, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45246.
-----------------------------------------------------------------Age.
Year of Study
LCity________
Telephone (_
State.Zip.
I
pic game against team USA. From there, 
however, he anchored his team through 
three more world championships and the 
1984 Olympics, during which he gave up 
five goals in eight games en route to his 
third goal medal.
Around the time of the 1979 Challenge 
Cup, Tretiak made some public state
ments that have been implicitly trans
lated to have a spectrum of meanings, 
from I admire the Montreal Canadians 
organization to My dream is to play for 
the Canadiens, and I will it the price is 
right. This was five years ago, and the 
rumors are renewed whenever Soviet 
hockey games are on North American 
television.
Dont hold your breath waiting for 
Tretiak to make the jump. There are sev
eral Czechoslovakian defectors in the 
NHL, the best known of whom are Peter, 
Anton, and Marian Stastny of Quebec, 
brothers who left their homeland indi
vidually, and Miro Dvorak of Philadel
phia. But all double agents, secret police, 
and iron curtains aside, Tretiaks leaving 
the Soviet Union is a different story.
Yes, he might very well like to play for 
the Canadiens. Its supposed to be the 
dream of every young Canadian boy; why 
cant one Soviet athlete want to play for
More Features . . .
an organization that has embodied the 
essence of hockey supremacy for most of 
this century? And why should anyone 
expect the Soviets to let him leave? He is 
considered the best goaltender in the 
sportwould any team let him leave? 
Would Edmonton let Wayne Gretzky 
waltz off to Europe for a season or two?
There are other considerations as well. 
Tretiak is in his early thirties. In the 
Soviet Union, under their training sys
tem, he will probably see two more 
Olympiads. In the NHL, he might see 
three to five seasons. Also, he is endowed 
with a wealth of self-confidence and a 
huge egohe knows he is number one 
and expects to play every game. In the 
Soviets 44 game season plus the world 
championships, hell get the bulk of the 
starts. In the 80 game plus playoffs NHL 
format, his role would be slightly 
different.
The way the Habs have been fighting 
to stay on the right side of .500 this sea
son, the addition of a fine goaltender 
would be welcome. But dont expect to 
see Vladislav Tretiak in (le bleu, blanc, et 
rouge).
Lesley Brunker is a sophomore in crea
tive writing and a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Extravaganza will instruct 
audience of self-defense
continued from page 9
lone (often female) performer dispatching 
fouf or more assailants. But Smith instructs 
his personal-defense students never seek to 
subdue an attacker. Rather, if talking fails, 
strike quickly, escape, and flee. He explains 
the apparent discrepancy by noting, We try 
to choreograph the action so that the 
defender is given no route of escape and
VD Testing
Affordable & Confidential 
EVENING Hour Services 
(formerly the Pgh. Free Clinic) 
call 661-5424
must confront the attack. In the skits, 
women, children, and senior citizens suc
cessfully defend themselv^S against assault. 
We believe this is an important statement 
and we want to stress the idea that everyone 
and anyone can defend himself. By showing 
this on stage, we encourage people to believe 
in themselves and build self-confidence. 
Experience an exciting live performance 
of Smiths Movement Extravaganza of the 
Martial Arts on Wednesday, March 28 at 
8:00 p.m. in the David Lawrence Hall, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh. Immediately follow
ing the Extravaganza, see Bruce Lee lake on 
Chuck Norris in Return of the Dragon. 
Tickets are available at Pitts Student Union 
and the door. Admission is $2.00 for Pitt 
students and $3.00 for all others. Sponsored 
by the Office of Urban and Community 
Services and the Oakland School of Per
forming Arts. Mtil f/..! wh no /yniq

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1984The TartanPage 17
Itimate frisbee club shoots for the ultimate goal
5v yR ICM EDOWp
[artan Staffurriter
Among Carnegie-Mellons successful
portsteams, there exists one team that is
ften overlooked. The Ultimate Frisbeeclub 
as compiled a record of 13-1 in its camigns against clubs formed at other univer
ses and independent clubs.
The sport of Ultimate, although still 
/olving, is growing rapidly. The rules are 
mple. A team must advance the frisbee 
om one end of the 80 yard field to the other, 
oving the frisbee solely by passing it 
ong teammates. The first team to score 14 
mes wins.
Ultimate is organized to be a non-contact 
irt__contact with opposing players that 
For an Ultimate player quickly becomes 
stranger to contact with the ground. A 
lead first dive to catch the frisbee is one of 
e most spectacular aspects of the sport not 
ly for spectators but also for the players 
emselves. It was the clubs quest for a soflr landing area that lead them to aban1)0 the hard clay I.M. fields and move to the
cut.
This year marks the first year of national 
collegiate competition in Ultimate. Seventythree teams from seven regions will be vying 
for the chance to play in the Nationals 
which should be televised on network TV. 
CMUs Ultimate club plans to make a 
strong showing, and the problem of getting 
the team back together for Nationals after 
school lets out is a real concern for team 
captain Rob Berkowitz.
Making it as far as Nationals in Boston 
would be a great accomplishment. In order 
to get there the club would have to beat clubs 
from schools the size of Princeton and Penn 
State.
The success that the club does experience 
is only a result of its overflowing enthusi
asm for the sport of Ultimate. Success in 
Ultimate Frisbee has yet to mean wides
pread publicity. The members of the team 
spend the time and money to participate 
only because they have discovered Ultimate 
Frisbee is as much fun to play as it is to 
watch.Frisbee, as shown here, is a sport for all seasons.
photo by John Stilwell
For the 1984 Stanford Summer Session Bulletin and 
application. mail this coupon to Stanford Summer Session, 
Building 10. Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305.STANFORDSUMMER
JUNE 25 THROUGH AUGUST 18
All students in good Unding arc invited to attend.
Grad student/ballet teacher takes on third role as head of gymnastics dub
By ANDRE GLENN
Tartan Staffivriter
Graduate student Alison Corvington, 
prompted by her ballet students encourage
ment, has begun a gymnastics club here at 
CMU. Corvington has been involved in 
gymnastics since the sixth grade, and she 
started a club of the same type at her pre
vious school.
The club has had only three practices so 
far this semester, and consists of 15 to 20 
people that regularly show up. Presently, 
the club practices on Saturdays from 1:30 to 
3:00 in the Thistle Hall Gym. The practices 
are fairly simple since most of the people are 
beginners and the rest havent worked out in 
years. The main emphasis is put on getting 
in shape, especially since the equipment is 
not of the greatest quality. The club does 
exercises that build up endurance and 
strength while also increasing flexibility, 
such as situps, pushups, tumbles, and flips.
After warming up they work out on the 
parallel bars and the balance beam.
The club is open to anyone willing to 
work to develop their skills. Corvington is 
the main supervisor of the club but the other 
students help out each other. The club con
sists of both men and women.
As of right now, the group has no plans to 
become a varsity team. The main reason is 
lack of time together to get into competitive 
form. Another reason is poor equipment. 
They only have one old balance beam, one 
set of parallel bars and a few mats. This 
limits their practices to warm-up exercises 
and basic rolls and flips. Corvington said 
that the club might consider varsity status 
after they spend more time together and get 
better equipment. If you are interested in 
becoming a member of the club, go to their 
practice in Thistle Hall this Saturday or call 
Alison Corvington at 363-2321.
photo by David Loren
m Tartan track team heads for Gainesville, Florida, over Spring Break for the Domino
Shapiro, lacrosse 
gin '84 season
% JANICE BULLARD
H an Staffivriter
Lacrosse Club started its second seawith a 12-6 loss to Wheeling College on 
Bday. The Tartans fought closely with 
Heeling until the third quarter, when 
got tired and Wheeling blew the game 
stated Neil Shapiro, organizer and 
h f the club. He added a few comments 
^individual players in the game. Our 
le> Charlie Johnson, played tough but 
Hdnt meet the challenge of fierce shots..
high scorer was Roy Teresky, with 
I? goals, then Roy Rentko with one, Alex 
|li with one, and Shapiro had one.
I he lacrosse Club is a member of the 
lsheny Lacrosse League, along with 
other teams in the area. Twenty-six 
students participate, most of whom 
freshmen and sophomores. Assisting 
lro in coaching is Dan Cohen. Sha> feeling enthusiastic about the coming 
)n despite the shaky start, announced 
I spectators are encouraged. The club 
on the I.M. field.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnsncy Testing
For a confidant ial friand ca
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0605
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
AUDITIONS 
For 
IDLEWILD PARK 
UVE ENTERTAINMENT
We are looking for Singers FfancersMusi
ciansVariety ArtsActors and Ac tresses.
Auditions will be held Saturday March 31,1984 
12 noon to 6.00 p.m. Rm. 206 School of Music 
Building at Duquesne University, Pittsburgh 
AND
Sunday April 1,1984 12 noon to 600 p.m. at the
Steak-Out Restaurant. Rt. 30 West (across from 
Idlewild Park) IJgonier. Pa.
Please call 1-412-238-3666 for further details.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMarch 13, 1984
Mission accomplished
36th annual IM night produces basketball champs
photo by Eric Targan
The Mission: (from 1. to r.) Luke Demo, Jimmy Rogers, Robert Keibler, Roger Roble, Dave 
Lynch, Bobby Joe Smith, and Dan Pavlick.
More features . . .
By SEAN QUINN 
AND CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Beware the Ides of March  Julius Cae
sar by Shakespeare. March 15th plans to be a 
big day in Intramurals, so pay attention. 
The day starts with the I.M. Board meeting 
at noon. Then the remainder of the day is 
the last chance to enter rosters for: CO-REC 
BADMINTON, CO-REC TABLE TEN
NIS, WEIGHT LIFTING, SOFTBALL, 
TEAM BADMINTON, FRISBEE, FENC
ING, and TRACK. In addition Tuesday, 
March 27 at 4:30 is the dme for the Softball 
rules meeting. It will be held in the womens 
gym.
The eve of the Ides, the 14th is the 
swimming meet (4:30 at the pool). You can 
enter right then and there as a team or 
individually.
The big event of last weeks IM action 
was IM night, held on March 8th. 
Led by balanced scoring and fantastic 
defense, the Wolfpack defeated MEMS for 
the Intermediate Championship of Basket
ball. Joe Glinka had 17 points, while Mariso 
Tavema scored 16. This game began the
evening.
The key to this game was the defense 
Tavema and Rob Fleischman blanketed 
guard Ed Joyce and held him to nine points 
Center John Hillibrand at 6'8" had 15 
points for MEMS.
After the trophies were distributed by IM 
Director E.J. Birdy and IM Board President 
Brian Taubler, the major league champion
ship of IM basketball. The Mission faced 
Betas A team.
Mission accomplished. Led by Bobby Joe ^ 
Smiths fifteen points and Dan Pavlicks 13 
points, the Mission defeated Beta 66-45. The 
score did not tell the whole story. It was a 
much closer game. But the Mission made 14 
free throws in the second half to open up the 
lead. Robert Keibler, Luke Demo and 
Jimmy Rogers were important factors on 
the boards, while Roger Roble handled the 
ball and pestered Betas offense.
Brad Humar had 11 points for Beta while 
Guard Sansoti had 10.
Both Birdy and Taubler request that 
those winners who were not at IM night 
pick up their trophies.
New contraceptive device available from health center
Allegheny Reproductive Health Center, a 
complete gynecological clinic in its ninth 
year of operation, will now be offering a 
new contraceptive device. Sold under the 
name TODAY, the device is a small contra
ceptive sponge that remains effective in a 
womans body for 24 hours.
Approximately 2 inches in diameter, the 
cup-like sponge provides protection in three 
ways.
A commonly used spermicide is incorpo
rated into its structure and released automat
ically inside the body.
The sponge-like material has properties 
which allow ample absorbtion, thereby 
reducing the number of sperm available for 
fertilization.
The sponge covers the entrance to the 
uterus from the vagina, blocking the path of 
the sperm.
In addition to these three protective quali
ties, the sponge has many other features
which give it a definite advantage over other 
methods of contraception.
Since the sponge can be inserted up to 24 
hours in advance of intercourse, it allows a 
greater degree of spontaneity than is possi
ble with either vaginal contraceptives or the 
condom. Both sponge and spermicide pro
vide continuous protection throughout that 
time, regardless of the frequency of inter
course. It is quite easy to use, and, in contrast 
to foams, creams, suppositories and diaph
ragms, the sponge is not messy at all.
Anyone purchasing the Today sponge 
from Allegheny Reproductive can also be 
assured that counselors are on hand to 
answer questions regarding its use.
Allegheny Reproductive Health Center is 
located in the Highland Building at 121 
South Highland Avenue. For more 
tion on the sponge or any of Allegheny 
Reproductives services for both men and 
women, please call 661-8811.
CMU BASEBALL. . . 
YES!!!
We have a baseball team
think youre good enough, 
hnw ns what youve got.
If you_______,
come show us
Practices daily: 4:30 in the Gym
For more information, call
Tim Nagy 687-4519 
Bob Flaherty 682-1474

---------------------------------------------------

V I
100 WATTS
FM S
SPRING 1984'
100 WATTS
T E R
3 and 621-WRCT
DAY
m Show

fdanci ng\ 
Grover ^ 
hot Ros;Ink , Ink , 
I unk
etko
in
and
1K>I
al.
)oral Jgue 
iakim
Space
icore
Radio Calendar every 8am, 1pm,
FRIDAYTHURSDAY
An i ma1 Crackers
w/Sarah
Me 1 1 ow . Oldies 'azz . Space Reggae
The Casuat\^__Observer vp.
w/Steve qanTUl
Mu tant Pop ^Jazz
BMTCOTW 
w/Nigel Chedwi
Space,Classi cal Rock
E i sbarsei n\ 
w/Steve \ 
]irp^L and Ramona IForeign and i Female J r t i s t s
sychedel i Headphone 
Music|E xper l menta 1 E1ec troni c, Me 11ow, Space
In Searc) 
of the Ultimate
[Pizza Steak
B1uegrass 
Jazz
Morni ng 
fCons i tut i ona
Progress i ve.New Wave.Hardcore
Your Pac^ or Mine 
w/Karen [Vom Fuschia FishLNew Music. Motown JB 1 ues .Jazz JSpace
E. Wade the K Show
ricxvi1[Psychede 1 ic ,Punk ti Rock, Funk B1ues
PervertedInnosence
w/Thew-32ychede1ic.Punk Country 1 ues.
Q
< Without" 
ouchi ng
/Wayne
opular Music
'Chosen Timev 
w/Gum Parker
xper i menta 1 .Funl Comedy,
a nee.
Time Out 
w/Bi1ly Pilgrim
<M.|Space, New Wave Jazz, Rock,
B1 ues
Random 
Truck 
SMn. w/Tony
New Wave 
Jazz
7pm, and 11pm
SATURDAY
^ Paranoi a 
In Pittsburgh
?am w/Nei 1New Wave. Punk Hardcore 
^Rock
/The/Music Hole 
I w/RogerQcon\Jazz. New Wave.\ Hardcore
\Rock

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.1
Five minute vote saves semester of misery
It is election time once again at CamegieMellon University. Student Senate elections 
will be held Wednesday and Thursday of this 
week. Elections will be for Student Senate pres
ident and several senatorial positions. The 
CMU student body will once again get a 
chance to elect their representatives.
However, there is a major problem. In the 
last election, only 6.7 percent of all CMU stu
dents took advantage of their right to vote. 
This number is astonishing considering the 
number of people on this campus who com
plain about the senate is much higher than 6.7 
percent.
There are many reasons that cause this lack 
of voters. A major factor is the lack of publicity. 
People do not know when the elections take 
place. Last week, a certain student senator was 
asked during his office hours the dates of the 
election, his response was, "I don't know." 
One presidential candidate thought the elections were last Friday.
However, it is the students who must 
shoulder most of the blame if the percentage 
remains low. Posters are up all over campus. A 
debate was held last week to present the presi
dential candidates to the public. The Tartan 
has made a concerted effort to publicize the 
election. The campus community should be 
well aware that the time to vote is now.
As proved by the recent events involving 
student senate members and former members, 
it is important who is elected to our govern
mental organization. As one presidential can
didate points out, "Student senators cannot 
work miracles, but they can help to make 
CMU a better place to live."
Along with voting for people to represent 
you, you will be voting on what the seante does 
with your money, and how much of it. There 
will be a referendum on this year's ballot 
which will decide whether or not to raise the
Student Activities Fee.^ This fee is somethin 
we all pay in addition to our tuition.The f< 
helps pay for student clubs and organizations 
including WR Cl,The Tar tan,Thistle 
new organizations such as the Gymnastics 
club. The proposed increase in the fee is 
approximately ten dollars. If you are sick of 
paying more and more money to the school 
then state your opinion and vote no on the 
referendum. If you are in'an activities fee 
funded club or organization,in order to keep 
your organization's budget in tact, get out and 
vote yes. ^
The presidential election is brewing to be a 
heated race. One candidate called another a 
"joke candidate" and then dropped out of the 
race in order to support another candidate, 
With six candidates in the running for presi 
dent, there must be someone that appeals to 
everyone.
Greek ViewFraternity and sorority Spring Rush final
By Cheryl Potter
Many of the fraternities and sororities on 
campus have just finished a successful 
Spring Rush! Here are some results:
ATO  We didnt have a Spring Rush, 
but congratulations to the houses 
that did!
DG  We are thrilled with our 
four fabulous Spring pledges! 
They are: Melissa Lamont, Mary Kay Mizicko, Sue Sidoti, and Chris Sipowicz.
1 hanks, Kim Ruane, for some fun parties!
Kappa Kappa Gamma is proud to 
announce the results of their spring rush. 
The three new additions are Ann Caretto, 
Amy Miller, and Chris Plato.
Pi Lambda Phi  We had a very success
ful spring rush, which ended February 10 
with our Pledge Night. Our nine new 
pledges are Bill Baxter, Jeff Calderas, Dave 
Forbes, Mike Kostolansky, Kevin Madzia, 
Jeff Melton, Steve Pleva, Steve Slominski,
and Eric Witt. Congratulations to our larg
est spring pledge class ever!
Through the combined efforts of our 
Rush Chairman, Michael Difiglia, and 
Social Chairman, Rob Katz, a busy schedule 
of events was prepared. The, the whole 
house participated quite actively in making 
this a highly successful Spring Rush for 
Sigma Nu. The nine new pledges are: Jay 
Bender, Jim Buell, Duane Delaney, Gabriel 
Eszterhas, Wayne Gordon, Bob Klemm,
Frank Orgain, Brad Roberson, and Jo 
Sakach.
Greek Sing thank yous:
Thanks Claude and Physical Plant fcj 
putting up our banner! Thanks Frank Mo 
tag for helping us prepare to paint the feno
Cheryl Potter is a junior in biology ar\ 
English and is one of several who writer 
Greek View.Democrats better decide soon to beat Reaga
By Stuart Shapiro
The race for the Democratic Presidential 
nomination may or may not be over when 
the day is done. It might be better for all 
concerned, i.e. all concerned about the possi
bility that Ronald Reagan may 
have his White House lease 
extended, if it was. If the contest 
continues along its present 
course through the summer, the Democratic 
Party could once again find itself with a 
candidate so bruised and battered from the 
campaign for the nomination that Republi
can strategists will find half their job already 
done for them.
Just a short while ago, the principal side
show erf the race consisted of John Glenn 
sniping at Walter Mondale. The fact that 
Glenn was fading as fast as Mondale was 
seemingly advancing, however, tended to 
reduce Glenns criticism, which was never 
all that inspiring anyway, to little more than
an annoyance. But that was before New 
Hampshire. And Maine. And Vermont. 
Suddenly, Mondale is in trouble. The Hart 
campaign is picking up speed and the Mon
dale people are extremely nervous to say the 
least. As a result, the gloves are now off. 
Walter Mondale is unleashing a string of 
verbal attacks on Gary Hart almost as brutal 
as his criticism of Ronald Reagan. Hart, 
although not quite as scathing in his criti
cism, has responded in kind.
The chief beneficiary of Mondales new 
tactics, unfortunately, is Ronald Reagan. 
He enjoys the advantage of no serious oppo
sition to his renomination while his poten
tial Democratic opponents bloody 
themselves in their pursuit of the opportun
ity to go after the brass ring. Such an advan
tage is certainly not a given for an 
incumbent Presidentjust ask Gerald Ford 
or Jimmy Carterbut it sure is nice if you
O/dMcTartan's campus farm
By Bill Garrison
Old McTartan dumped his farm 
Right on CMU
He thought that it would do no harm 
But I have news for you.
Through this campus where 
sweet birds once sung,
I refuse to breathe through my 
 nose.
And amidst the piles of animal dung,
My steps are carefully chose.
Yes, where students play and frisbees soar, 
Rests waste from those who tread on fours. 
Our campus beautiful is now manure, 
And makes me feel like doing chores.
The physical plant is not to blame,
Their job is to grow the grass.
But what theyre shoveling, will bring CMU 
fame,
As the first campus "from a horses a-.
We should all wake up to the crow of the 
cock,
And eat a breakfast of smoked sausage and 
beans.
And instead of taking classes well feed the 
stock,
And be fans of Mr. Green Jeans.
I can hear the dinner bell, Dickie, calling us 
home,
To the Tartan campus where well find, 
That stuff found only where buffalos roam, 
And mostly what they left behind.
For $10,000 we get to live on a farm,
Set right near the heart of a city.
And although it only does my nasals harm 
I still think its pretty shitty.
Bill Garrison is a junior in technical and 
professional writing and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.
can get it. So while Mondale and Hart slug 
it out, Reagan strategists will gleefully note 
every verbal blast that is potential ammuni
tion for the general campaign.
The blame for this, however, does not lie 
solely with the Mondale campaign. After 
defining the campaign as a struggle for the 
soul of the Democratic Party, Hart could not 
seriously expect moderate rhetoric from Mr. 
Mondale. In effect, Senator Hart challenged 
Mr. Mondale to a duel. Once results in New 
England made acceptace of that challenge 
unavoidable, it would have been damned 
peculiar if Mondale had not started attack
ing in earnest. This race has already dis
played an affinity for the peculiar, but not in 
this case. Mondale waded in and the rest is in 
the process of becoming history.
If the resulting batde does run until 
August, picking up the pieces will definitely 
be a nontrivial task. If things stay nasty 
enough long enough, the party may be too 
divided to produce the consensus and com
mitment the Democratic nominee will need 
in order to have a reasonable chance of dislo
cating Mr. Reagan in November. At the 
same time, the Democratic candidate will 
find himself reliving the campaign for the 
nomination as Republican strategists take 
pains to remind voters of what Mr. Mondale 
had to say about Senator Hart or vice versa.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.Columns are the opinions of individual authors
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the
opinions are not necessarily those o/The Tartan
Editorial Board. .Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Which is not to say that all this cou 
certainly be avoided. As the Democrat] 
Party struggles to redefine itself, 1984 cou 
very well turn into a watershed year. Pel 
haps GaryHart and Walter Mondale realj 
are engaged in a battle for the soul of t 
Democratic Party. Unfortunately, 
struggle could come at the expense of fo 
more years of Ronald Reagan. On theotl 
hand, the results of that struggle could pnj 
vide the vision that will defeat him. Giv 
past experience, however, that may turnc 
to be an idle hope.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student j 
applied history and is a columnist for 
Tartan.
TheMit
Editor in Chief..........
Managing Editor 
Business Manager
News Editor.............
Features Editor.........
EntertainmentJEditor
Sports Editor.............
Photography Editor . 
Production Manager 
Typesetting Manager 
Contributing Editors
.............RicMf
..............Susan Pf
.............Karen fl
.. Neil J. Gieentt 
.. Neal W. Jhni 
................Mark Lrt
Chnstopher D
............Mike Pik*
Maria ^
...............Patti Cari
.............Pauline"
Pauline Ko>
............David Fi
.........Adam 1
SCO
.........Bonnie
Gialal
Asst. Pro....................................
Asst. Ent. Editor.....................
Asst. Sports Editor.................
Assc. Business Manager...........
Production Staff: David Fields, Elena 
Andrew Ghali, Stephen Volan.
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The 
reserves the right to withhold from public ^ 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Kxlitona . 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Off 1 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21  
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 
Funded by the Activities ieeAll rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Greek Sing. 1984
By MARK LEVINE 
and ADAM HANIN
Tartan Entertainment Editor
and Tartan .Iwf. Entertainment Editor
Amid unstoppable screams and shouts 
that almost drowned out Co-Chairpersons 
Debra Yasinow and Douglas Derr, Greek 
Sing began last Friday at the Syria Mosque. 
Each Fraternity and Sorority would sneak 
out in the darkness and do a surprisingly 
short batch of songs, usually selections 
from a popular Broadway Musical. Soreh
missed were the Brothers of ZBT, who 
always put on a good show, but they were 
there in the spirit of one of Pi Lambdas 
songs (see lyrics on previous page). The 
evening started inauspiciously enough with 
thex Brothers of Alpha Tau Omega who 
wisely told the judges to stop scoring, 
because we just dont care. They went on to 
do a pretty tasteless and at one point antiSemitic show. One could feel the audience 
getting uncomfortable. Things picked up a 
little with Beta Theta Pis show, half of
which consisted of a skit between two bums 
(and ex-CMU students). They sang New 
York, New York and left quickly, but they 
had some funny jokes and one nice touch - 
trombonists in the garbage cans.
The real singing began with the Brothers 
and Little Sisters of Delta Tau Delta. They 
had an interesting medley of Motown Hits 
with imitations of the Temptations, Stevie 
Wonder, The Jacksons and others. It was 
here that the incompetence of the sound 
crew really came to light. Many of the mini
groups of DTD were much to loud. Maybe 
they were holding the microphones too 
close but many other groups had that prob
lem also. By far the best part of DTDs act 
was their rendidon of Baby Love which 
sounded rather close to the original. The 
imitation choreagraphy was nice also.
The first sorority to perform was the Sis
ters of Kappa Kappa Gamma. They did 
selections from Sweet Charity, with cos
tumes for different professions to go along 
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

SupplementPage 2 The Tartan, March 13,1984
Photos by John Stilwell
The Tri-Delts pul together their own USO 
show to win the Second Place Award in the 
Womens Competition.
KISS THE SCHOOL GOODBYE
(Sung to the tune of Kiss Today Goodbye)
The stage is filled with El Gallos as Phi Kappa Theta does their rendition of The 
Fantasticks.
The sisters of Delta Gamma sing some serious songs about being female in their 
selections from Im Getting My Act Together and Taking It on the Road.
Kiss the school goodbye, 
Thanks to I5-III,
I had barely learned Karel. 
When the system crashed, 
Now my life is trashed,
Schools been shot to hell.
Phil gave this reply,
Youre leaving here tomorrow, 
No more hacking shall you do, 
Go to Lebanon,
Fight the Viet Cong,
Were deleting you.
Gone, little hackers gone,
His inspired song,
Still lives on forever.
Now my keyboards cold,
You think Im gone forever, 
but Ill be back to hack again . .
Dont forget, 
youll regret, 
my revenge will come.
The Brothers and Friends of Pi Lambda Phi win the First Place 
Award in the Mixed Competition with their traditional CMU Songs.
Co-Chairperson for Greek Sing/Swing 
Debra Yasinow announces the next act.
 -
MY FINANCIAL AID 
by Heather Newton
(Sung to the tune of My Favorite Things)
Pell grants that come at the governments bequest, 
l^oans to be paid back at twelve percent interest, 
Scholarships won from my towns Ladies Aid, 
These are all part of my financial aid.
Child support checks from a dad who feels guilty, 
Work study jobs washing dishes at Kiltie,
All summer earnings that Ive ever made,
These are all part of my financial aid.
Grants from my state for a few hundred guineas, 
Grants that dont cost CMU one damn penny, 
Money adjusted according to grades,
These are all part of my financial aid . ..
The whole gang from Delta Upsilon proceeds to blast the audience with H.M.S. Pinafore, 
the First Place Award winner for the Mens Competition.
When the bill comes.
Yes the bill comes,
When Im feeling sad,
I only remember my financial aid, and then I know 
IVE BEEN HAD!

---------------------------------------------------

Penn got its winos, 
tt has got its bums,
CMUs got Big Brad Walter, 
es a teetotalin son of a gun.
eah hes nice and sweet as a man can be when hes getting his point across, 
when the frat presidents get together at night, 
u know they all Call Big Brad Boss just because
,nd they say . . .
You dont serve mixed drinks at your parties, 
You dont let in people under eighteen, 
You dont take the lid off the old Jack Daniels, 
And you dont mess around with the Dean.
You dont serve mixed drinks at your parties,
You dont let in people under eighteen,
You dont send drunk freshmen to the old hospital, 
And you dont mess around with the Dean.
Well a hush fell over the courtroom,
Brad came bopping in off the street,
And when the cutting was done,
The only part that wasnt bloody was the soles of that fraternitys feet.
The Brothers and Sisters ot Theta Xi did 
their version of South Pacific .
OU DONT MESS AROUND WITH THE DEAN
ung to the tune of You dont mess around with jim)
SAE took the Second Place Award in the Mens Competition for their Brigadoon. Here, 
Harry Beaton is dead but nobodys too terribly depressed.
Well out of south campus came a fraternity,
They said Were looking for a man named Brad, 
eah were a shot drinking house,
The name is Zeta Beta Tau,
In the quad they know were bad.
Yeah were looking for the dean of Forbes Avenue,
[
les driving a drop top Cadillac, 
ast week he took our charter,
Jut he should have been smarter,
Zause weve come to get our charter back.
\nd everybody say, Hey, Zebes . . .
)ont you know f . .
Yeah, their buggy was out of the races,
They couldnt do Greek Sing anymore,
And you better believe the Zebes sang a different song 
, When Big Brad took the floor .. .
Now they say .. .
No, its not Diana Ross but it sure sounded like her as 
the brothers and little sisters of DTD sang a medley of 
Motown Hits.
You dont serve mixed drinks at your parties, 
You dont let in people under eighteen,
You dont take the lid off the old jack Daniels, 
And you dont mess around with the Dean.
T unes.
The brothers of Kappa Sig sang a version of Jesus Christ Superstar which sounded 
suspiciously like Grease.

---------------------------------------------------

continuad from page 1
with the song'Theres Gotta be Something 
Better Than This! And of course you cant 
do Sweet Charity without doing Big 
Spender, which they did complete with 
adapted tuxedo-type costumes.
The Sisters of Delta Gamma came on 
with a costume idea that was used by several 
of the other organizations - dress everybody 
the same! It made for a nice stage picture. I 
especially enjoyed their choice of musical 
selections; songs from Im Getting My Act 
Together and Taking it on the Road, a 
serious musical with songs that have mes
sages for women of today. Their perfor
mance was a nice diversion from the silliness 
of some of the other acts.
But if you wanted silliness, all you had to
The Sisters of KKG did not mince words 
with their act Here theyre doing the showstopper ''Big Spender" from "Sweet 
Charity."
Alpha Tau Omegas version of Billie Jean 
was probably not what Michael Jackson 
had in mind.
Greek Sing/ Swing Co-C Chairperson 
Doug Derr
do was wait for the next act. A great drum 
solo flanked the only audience participation 
song of the evening, which involved a bear 
and a couple of pink tennis shoes. It was the 
Zoo Tune for this year, and the Brothers of 
Sigma Nu slithered on and off while the 
drums were going.
The last act before the intermission gave 
us a taste of the more serious competitors to 
follow. The Brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha 
took some selections from Shenendoah, 
added a few lines, and presented a very, very 
short version of the entire musical. They 
tried to create some semblence of a set, also, 
with a firing cannon and other sundry 
Civil War items. A General took care of 
the choir direction.They won the Third 
Place Award for the Mens Competition.
The Brothers of Phi Kappa Theta took 
over the show after intermission, with three 
selections from The Fantasticks. All of the 
Brothers were dressed as the character El 
Gallo in black and white caped outfits. 
Their choreography had a very linear feel to 
it, which worked nicely on the Syria 
Mosques gigantic stage. They also had a 
little orchestra put together for the show, 
with some nice violin solos by Carl Ott, Jr.
The Brothers of Kappa Sigma had listed 
in the program that they were doing Jesus 
Christ Superstar, and that is indeed the leadin that their little band played, but they 
mysteriously went into Grease and never 
looked back. A fairly fun act, they had a nice 
rock n roll band.
The acts just kept getting better. Follow
ing Kappa Sig. were the Brothers of Delta 
Upsilon, the winners of the First Place 
Award in the Mens Competitions. They did 
several songs from HMS Pinafore, and did 
them very well. Authentic naval costumes 
and good crowd choreography are what 
won them the award. The whole act had a 
nice flow to it, and I was especially 
impressed with the way the chorus was 
always on; they were always acting very 
professionally.
The next act was the First Place Award 
winner in the Mixed Competition, and by 
far the act most steeped in tradition. It was, 
of course, the Brothers and Friends of Pi 
Lambda Phi with their CMU Songs, the 
lyrics of which appear earlier in the supple
ment. Although Pi Lams performance was 
not studded with the showy choreography 
which so many of the other acts had, it was 
nonetheless quite entertaining, drawing 
screams of approval from the enjoying 
audience.
Following Pi Lam came the second place 
winner in the Mixed category; the Brothers 
and Sisters of Theta Xi, with their rousing 
interpretation of South Pacific. Besides their 
appropriate costuming, Theta Xi also pres
ented excellent choreographed dance 
sequences, and their vocal prowess was also 
stressed by their performance.
Next, the Brothers of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon took the stage in traditional Tartan 
outfits and performed selections from Brigadoon. Their vocal abilities and unique stag
ing won them the second place in the 
Fraternity part of the competition. It is very 
possible that SAE nearly walked away with 
the award; the final decision must have been 
a very difficult one for the judges.
The Tri-Delts were next to hit the stage 
with their idea of a U.S.O. show. Besides 
showing an incredible talent for vocal har
monies, the Tri-Delts also provided a very 
colorful stage (most were dressed in flowered 
shirts). To make the show complete, several 
of the sisters dressed in army drab, and 
simply sat on the edge of the stage and 
watched. The performance was completed 
by the presence of a trumpet player during 
Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy. The Tri-Delts 
easily walked away with second place in the 
Sorority part of the competition.
The clear winner in the Sorority area, as 
well as over-all, was the last act; the Sisters of 
Kappa Alpha Theta who rightly performed 
selections from Cats, a slightly altered form 
of their acronym. Besides their beautiful cos
tumes and exquisite choreography (the feel
ing of seeing real cats was definitely there),
It was the Civil War all over again as the brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha sang selections from 
Shenendoah to win the Third Place Award in the Mens Competition.
The brothers of Beta Theta Pi give a drunken but heartfelt rendition of New York, New 
York.
Kappa Alpha Theta performed selections from Cats garbed in appropriate attire.
Kappa Alpha Theta showed unparalleled 
vocal prowess.
Winding up the evening was the singing 
of Thank You, a song written especially 
for the Hospice Organization, to which all 
the proceeds from Greek Sing went. Unfor
tunately, the audience members showed 
complete inconsideration by leaving during 
the song, distracting those who wished to see 
and hear this touching song.
In all, Greek Sing was a very entertaining 
experience. Congratulations are certainly in 
order to Doug Derr and Debra Yasinow, as 
well as to all who participated in the event. 
Although not everybody won an award, all 
were winners; the Hospice Organization 
truly benefitted, as did all who attended 
Greek Sing. Heres to next years produc
tion; may it be all that 1984s Greek Sing 
was, and more.

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1984The TartanPage 21
etters:andidate drops candidacy
itor:
I am sorry to announce my resignation as 
ndidate for Student Government Presi1.1 would shortly like to state my reasons 
resigning, and to show that they are 
litical, not personal.
There is a candidate running on a jokete. With seven candidates, student suprt will be split. Unfortunately, support 
r this jokester runs high. With Student 
nate being criticized in the past for being 
efficient, elitist, and ultimately, worthless, 
ny people feel that Student Government 
i joke, and therefore, treat it as such. 
There is a lot of work that Senate has to 
|o, and we cannot afford to lose any credibil
ity. To have a joke as a president, one 
ithout experience or purpose, would be 
r0rse than having no president at all. It 
,'ould make any work we could do twice as 
lard to accomplish, it would be counteriroductive.
Secondly, but more importantly, is the 
lllegiance I owe to the students of the Col;e of Fine Arts. It is hard to get strong 
ipporters for CFA, and it is more importnt that I stay in my present position as 
:FA senator and Art Department SAC
representative. As president, I would have to 
split myself to represent all students. I feel I 
could better serve my constituents.
I would now like to urge you all to vote. 
Take it seriously, because if we act like child
ren, we will be treated as such. Vote for 
someone who you think could do a good 
job, someone like Marc Olin, or even John 
Pane (even though Im convinced he would 
make a better Senate chairman.) Dont vote 
for Ted Hughes, A.K.A. Acid Ted 
Hughes, who has no experience and no 
clear goals.
I would invite you to call the candidates 
(their numbers are probably in the C-book), 
find out what they think they can do, what 
experience they have had in organizational 
management, and then go out and vote for 
the one who you think will best represent 
you..
The election is Wednesday and Thursday, 
Skibo Grey Matter, bring your I.D. and I 
want to see a good turnout!
Remember, its your activities fee, its your 
university and its your election. Do with it 
as you will.
Peter Corless 
CFA Student SenatorMADD member addresses President Solano with concern
|Vn Open Letter to Nate Solano
)ear Nate:
You dont know me and I only know you 
rom what I hear on campus and what I read 
n The Tartan. You can learn a lot about a 
>erson when they expose themselves in
tint.
I read with much interest your uncompasonate and cruel attempt at humor when 
|ve (MADD) were working hard on the 
unk driving legislation. I accepted your 
pology, in the following Tartan, for the 
ree sleepless nights you didnt know you 
laused me. I was unable, at that time, to 
I nswer you in print because my sole contrilution to the lobbying effort in Harrisburg 
Iras to stand with a poster made up of piclures of my son and his friend, (who were 
lilled together), two other friends, (who 
L'ere killed two months later), and some 
local young people who lived and died 
I within a few miles of each other (some 
attending each others funerals), and cry. I 
Iras willing to expose my agony so that
legislation could be passed; but I was unwil
ling/unable to expose myself further so that 
you could learn a lesson. It seems that my 
involvement, at that time, was unnecessary 
because others, mosdy students, took you to 
task resulting in the apology. Sometimes 
people lacking in compassion and common 
sense get forgiven.
I havent forgotten about you since that 
time, Nate. Youre hard to forget. When I 
heard about the Orpheus Allison incident I 
knew it would only be a matter of time 
before you would write and I would get to 
know you again. (You never disappoint 
me.) Your article in last weeks Tartan also 
did not disappoint me. It was pure Nate. I 
want you to know that I resisted the great 
temptation to be sarcastic in kind.
You said you feel sorry for Orpheus. Your 
sympathy is misplaced. He knows who he is 
and where hes going. You may not like 
who he is, but that doesnt matter.
I hope you will leam, from your experien
ces here as well as your classes, what you
need for a good productive life. You can 
gain strength from pain and extreme adver
sity. Ive learned that. What you need to do is 
face the truth and stop looking for cute ways 
to excuse/explain yourself to your peers. 
You broke the law, whether you agree with 
that law or not. All that remains is to leam 
from the experience. I have great faith that 
you will leam. You are obviously a creative,
intelligent young man with much more 
going for him than just an education. Dont 
waste that on hate; its so destructive. Try' 
forgiveness. Forgiveness is such a healing 
balm; it soothes both the forgiver and the 
forgiven.
I wish you love.
Mary Ann McClain 
MADD, MCS Deans Office
Pacifist position naive
bortion letters emotional
Here we go again. It seems that every week 
he Tartan sees fit to print at least one letter 
n abortion. I am quite surprised that the 
Iditors of The Tartan have chosen to make 
I his issue a standard feature of their paper. 
I I should think that The Tartan could find 
jome other public issues that are actually 
ylated to the Camegie-Mellon campus to 
lebate in a public forum such as the campus 
Iiewspaper. The subject of abortion is an 
motional one  and one that will not be 
I solved on the pages of The Tartan. To 
I Hint letters in which pro-choicers continI ally beat down pro-lifers and vice versa is
a good waste of newsprint and Tartan space. 
Where is the investigative reporting this 
campus needs so badly? Where are the arti
cles about events in the city of Pittsburgh, of 
which the Camegie-Mellon campus is a 
part?
At any rate, I do get a good laugh out of 
the narrow-mindness and amateurism of 
The Tartan every week. I do find myself 
wondering, however, why the Tartan tries 
to pass itself off as a real campus newspaper, 
instead of the humor publication it so 
obviously is.
Mary Dallman 
Baker Hallthristmas Past opened show
minutes, though, the majority of people in 
I I wish to comment on Neil Greenblums my area (and we did not have front row or
itor
I wish to comment on Neil Greenblums 
cent review of the Pittsburgh Duran 
luran concert held February 28. In his artieMr. Greenblum stated (and the article 
l*( implied) that Duran Duran was their 
lvn pening act! However, this was not the 
lseA five-man band which appeared to be
u,an Duran initially performed before the 
Jv>< Arena audience. Like Mr. Greenblum, 
(and others seated in my section) believed 
l( band to be Duran Duran. After a few
minutes, though, the majority of people in 
my area (and we did not have front row or 
floor seats!) realized it was not Duran 
Duran, judging from both the music and 
the band members themselves. To be cer
tain, I later called the Civic Arena Event 
Information office, and was informed that 
the opening bands name was Christmas 
Past.
Thank You.
d vi
Lorena Miller
Editor
I would like to comment on Ms. Prattos 
article on pacifism in the February 21st issue 
of The Tartan. The opinions and solutions 
presented are slighdy naive and the only 
reason she can argue such idealism is 
because she carefully avoids facts which 
would disprove her theories.
The entire article is full of unsupported 
statements, e.g. we didnt get involved 
when the Nazis took over Europe until we 
were attacked. This is simply not true. 
American military production increased 
rapidly between 1939 and Pearl Harbor. For 
instance, military aircraft production 
tripled in the U.S.A. between 1940 and 1941 
and military aid to Great Britain escalated. 
The German Navy attacked and destroyed 
several U.S. ships in the North Atlantic 
which were carrying military goods. Just 
because war was not declared technically 
does not mean that the U.S.A. did not take 
sides. The American-British Conversations 
(ABC-talks) started in January of 1941, a full 
eleven months before Pearl Harbor. Wil
liam Fiske III, a fighter-pilot, became the 
first American to die in combat (mid-1940). 
In view of all this, I find Ms. Prattos state
ment didnt get involved very weak.
When you compare civil nghts struggles 
with military conflict, you are comparing 
apples and avocados. With all due respect: 
life goes on with or without social changes. 
However, in war it is survival you are fight
ing for. The British were not facing tear-gas 
and policemen, they were up against reallife Stukas and Messerschmitts. Passive res
istance is good and useful many times, but I 
doubt that gathering at Trafalgar Square 
and singing Its a long way to Tipperary 
would have weakened the heart of any SSman.
Ms. Pratto also mentions persecution of 
Christians under the Roman Empire. She 
mentions passive resistance, the persecu
tions by Diocletianus and finally says 
Eventually, the Roman Empire ceased 
these persecutions. As we all know, the 
Roman Empire was approaching its sunset 
at this time (303 A.D.). Only 150 years later, 
the barbarian Odovakar defeated the once 
proud empire. So that is one reason the 
Roman Empire stopped persecuting: they 
ceased to exist.
Ms. Pratto speaks of the Roman Empire 
as if it was a unit. The fact of the matter is 
that this was a time of change; Christianity 
was expanding. In fact, Diocletianus was 
succeeded by Constantine the Great, who 
favored Christianity. Furthermore, several 
emperors were Christians. With reference to 
these fact, I dare say that pacifism was not 
such a determining factor as Ms. Pratto 
implied.
Later on in her article, Ms. Pratto talks 
about how Bishop Kiril saved the Jews of 
Bulgaria. Let us look at this closer. Bulgaria 
is an agricultural nation, with a population 
of mainly Slavic, pardy Turkish origin. I 
have no statistics, but an educated guess 
would be that there were no more than 
100,000 Jews in Bulgaria at the time. Why? 
Well, Jews are usually industrious people, 
members of the upper-middle class, the pop
ulace concentrated in larger cities. Bulgaria 
is farm country. How many Jews are there 
in Nebraska? Furthermore, Bulgaria was 
militarily unstable. The last thing Germany 
needed was a bishop (Bulgaria is strongly 
Greek-orthodox) leading passive resistan
ce/actions. So it was a trade-off. Meanwhile 
in Germany, Holland, Poland, etc., six mil 
lion were slaughtered. Im not depreciating 
Bishop Kirils effort, I just want the cornea 
perspective on it. Finland is also mentioned 
Finland saved all but four of its Jews fron 
deathcamps. Finland was a German ally. 1 
is bad policy to kill any part erf your allvs 
continued on pag 23

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanMarch 13, 1984
More to art than what is found in most museums
By David Moskowitz
Fed up with my weekly hack I decided to 
read through some of the bboards on which 
I noticed an interesting comment entided 
Art and Architecture, addressed To all 
you CIT closed minded fools. 
Its author puts down Wean Hall 
(its architectural value) and 
praises the IT exhibit. Hedescribes Wean Hall as obviously one of the 
most dull and uninspiring places short of 
the Sahara or Death Valley and calls it an 
ugly and boring and monolithic object. 
From what I hear, this seems to be some
what of a consensus on campus, especially 
with CFA people. In contrast to this I pro
pose that Wean Hall is one of the best 
designed and aesthetically pleasing build
ings on campus.
Unlike painting or sculpture, architec
ture is art with a functional purpose. The 
purpose of any building is to make the most
regard to a specific purpose, while remain
ing aesthedally pleasing. This is the essence 
of any good building design and is the 
essense of Wean Hall.
Any work of art (that lives up to this title) 
is an expression of a concept in physical 
form. The essential concept of Wean Hall is 
high technology, which is characteristic of 
the departments inside. High technology 
implies efficiency and sleekness, progress 
and purpose, all characteristics of Wean.
Anyone walking from Doherty into Wean 
must be overwhelmed by the contrast, feel
ing he is entering a World of the Future. 
The inner spacing is efficient, with simplic
ity its key, allowing it to serve its purpose to 
the fullest. There is no searching for rooms 
that cant be found. Windows in many pla
ces allow fantastic views of the surround
ings, a much needed break from what goes 
on inside. Enter the lobby, you imagine you 
are in a high class hotel, with its elevators,
dows. After just coming in from ground 
level, walking straight ahead will put you 
five stories above ground, a startling effect. 
Overall, the inside design is one of elegance, 
derived from simplicity, simple geometry, 
and purpose. To better appreciate this, com
pare it with Doherty Hall and its lack of 
interior organization.
The exterior design of Wean keeps with 
the ideas portrayed inside. Looking at it, 
you might envision a futuristic space port. 
The largest building on campus, it is also 
the simplest in design. One feature which is 
striking is the immense, monolithic block 
which hangs over the entrance. First impres
sion says it serves no purpose. Its lack of 
windows lead you to believe that there really 
arent any classrooms or lecture halls inside 
it. There is no need for elaborate ornamenta
tion (that doesnt make art), just simplicity, 
elegance, and most importantly, purpose. 
Many artists forget that the exterior of a
interior, not a false front (imagine the elec 
trical engineering department housed in 
CFA). Note the elaborate, sometimes vulgg, 
dress worn by many CFA people. Is thj3a 
true reflection of themselves? I hope not 
Wean Hall makes a definite statement to 
me in regard to its theme  high technol
ogy. Reading from the ground up  
down to earth (i.e. reality) [as portrayed^ 
its length and horizontal lines] and you Stu 
reach the stars [its sloping roof] but dont 
lose sight of your purpose [its upper cutoff 
of the slope]. I realize this may be stretching 
it a bit, but it is a good attempt for a < 
minded CIT fool.
For a better understanding, go out ant 
look at Wean, outside and inside, with 
open mind, remembering the few points! 
stated.
David 'Moskowitz is a freshman in cm 
engineering and is a columnist for
efficient use of the space available, with overlooking levels, and large tinted winbuilding should be a true reflection of the Tartan.Supreme Court ruling attacks working class
By STUART SHAPIRO
Its always nice to discover a way of avoid
ing one of lifes litde inconveniences. Ameri
can businesses now have a way of avoiding a 
rather large one. The same people who 
brought you Escape From Title 
*4* 1 IX are also responsible for the 
Union Contract Shuffle.
Several weeks ago, the 
Supreme Court ruled that a bankruptcy 
court may free a company from its union 
contracts without requiring proof that the 
company would otherwise face imminent 
failure. The Court has thus officially sancti
oned the strategy employed so successfully 
by such companies as Continental Air Lines 
to escape from cumbersome labor agree
ments. Given that stamp erf approval, the
threat of invoking Chaper 11 of the Bank
ruptcy Code is likely to become a standard 
weapon of management in collective bar
gaining. Chaper 11 is no longer simply a 
defense against creditors, but is now a means 
of attacking organized labor as well.
The Courts decision gives individual 
bankruptcy courts a great deal of discretion 
when determining whether a companys 
financial situation is sufficiendy bleak to 
warrant permission to abrogate labor con
tracts. So in theory, bankruptcy judges will 
simply deny relief to those petitioners who 
try to use Chapter 11 merely to breach incon
venient union contracts. In theory. Unfortu
nately, we live in the real world. In the real 
world its not so clear, given the amount of 
individual discretion involved, that less than
absolutely flagrant abuses wtii be caught. In 
any case, the real impact will probably not 
lie in the actual use of Chapter 11 so much as 
in the threat to petition for bankruptcy.
Ruling on the second issue in the case, the 
court decided that from the filing of a peti
tion in bankruptcy until formal acceptance, 
the collective bargaining agreement is not 
an enforceable contract. In other words, 
filing for bankruptcy automatically voids 
any union contract. Thus, American busi
nesses now have the ability to legally make 
unilateral changes in labor agreements. A 
union contract may still be worth more than 
the paper its written on, but it sure isnt 
worth what it once was.
As a result, management now has a pow
erful weapon with which to force unions to
make concessions, ine Courts decision 
constitutes a bargaining chip of temendous 
value. Any time a company wants to renego 
tiate a union contract, all it need do is 
threaten to use Chapter 11. Such a thn 
places considerable pressure on the union 
must either grant concessions or risk losing 
its contract altogether. The Court claims 
that while the company is still obligated 
bargain on a replacement contract, breac 
ing the old one after initiating the use o 
Chapter 11 does not constitute an unfaii 
labor practice. Clearly, if this is the law then 
the law is dead wrong.
The results of the ruling may even gi 
beyond its effects on union contracts 
touch business contracts of any kind. Bank 
continued on
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest . . . Now try the BEST!
CAPRIPIZZA
***********
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.rn. 
Sundays 3 - 2 a.m.
nweth 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
$2.99 + TAX
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
Eat in or order out.
This price for lunch/dinner
3415 Forbes Ave., Oaklandtele: 681 -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1984The TartanPage 23
eg a!zed abortion an American holocaust
L lot can be learned about a society 
lough its garbage.|My religion teacher in eleventh grade Ice said that we live in a disposable society. 
If we dont want something, we 
throw it away. But our garbage 
is much more than the cans, bot
tles, papers and scraps that most pple consider trash. 
rf everything that every American throws 
ay in a single year was placed in one pile, L would you find? Somewhere, hidden [the pile so as not to be termed garbage Lid be thousands of dead children. Some luld be burned from saline, some hacked
:ourt decisionttacks unions
| ntinued from page 21
ruptcy will undoubtedly be more attractive a means of escaping bad business deals in 
ineral. Which is not to say that companies |ll soon be declaring bankruptcy en masse, appeals quite possible, however, that lapter 11 will no longer be considered the al alternative for a financially ailing business.
The ultimate impact of the Courts decilin on business contracts in general is only 
. I natter of speculation at the moment. But 
| impact on union contracts in particular 
already a matter of history. Fortunately, 
Ration to reverse that decision has 
l eady been introduced in Congress. MeanBiile, however, an excellent tool for union 
sting is now available to those companies 
a position to use it.
Mmrt Shapiro is a graduate student in appmd history and is a columnist for The 
flirtan.
into bits, but all would be legal garbage. 
Something along these lines could have 
been found in Europe forty years ago. Back 
then and even today it is given the term 
holocaust. Over here, todays holocaust is 
shrouded with euphimisms such as termi
nated pregnancy or even an individuals 
right. The only difference is that the vic
tims of todays holocaust are unborn. I guess 
thats supposed to make it legitimate. So, if 
someone doesnt want a baby, all they have 
to do is get a doctors help to throw the baby 
away.
Also in the pile, somewhere below the 
unborn trash, is a form of garbage that is 
becoming more popular. People throw it
away more oftenthemselves. For the first 
time in U.S. history, suicides outnumbered 
murders last year. Finding no reason to go 
on living, people decided to dispose of them
selves. Some used guns, others used pills or
some other human invention initially 
intended to improve life. Now theyre used 
to make tragedy, to make death, to make 
garbage as people find even themselves to be 
far from indisposable.
Some items that people throw away 
would not be quite so tangible, however. 
Items such as marriage. If a marriage isnt 
working, most couples dont take the time 
or put forth the effort to fix it. They get rid of
it. They throw it away. They can always get 
another one.
Or how about the elderly? A lot of people 
throw them into old folks homes. They get 
rid of the bother. They dispose of them.
If you were to look at the very bottom of 
the pile, you would find something else that 
people are throwing away more often. The 
fact that people throw it away may be the 
main reason why there is so much human 
garbage. At the very bottom of the pile, you 
would find faith and belief in God.
Michael Hoff is a sophomore in profes
sional and creative writing and is a colum
nist for the Tartan.
<roop MoWliUk
WRe PRletJT AWP I'D DK_ 
You To KNOW...
\
Oli ^ENWANJD
BBRvr CT tior 
odRLwri SdhwuwTI
that on The ecomw* IM 2T 
'RoMLD 'REfAVJ,
OM ARMS Co*m?OL 
I'M WOT
dRLwri ahwHsI
wLiRLflRThLg 
I55UE5, I'M HOT
dRLwri dhwHwf3
so. 0|R wbh yRfloes
Liiyone
leally 
]are... ?
ddeednas porb 
cds infalW 
y.v ln yn h.4 
falvi .0.vi 
dlcyu
HIS IS NOT
wpC g mg, 
g-q :q g 
dAvvdhe. sdyfx
Eydna h.REfs.
MD:mgw,m nP 
Mbmb-MopW
v.a 4d. Ea4 
nfaye.ss 
qMbJm Ev. 
MCmo-gppC
fda.4 Pnv 
dP. h.REfs. 
MbC eERI 
b-bwq Pnn4G
fONT YOU 
IELP? EACH 
'OLLAR YOU 
END TO CARE 
^LL GIVE A 
ERVING Dk 
ddjTRITIOUS 
00D TO 50 OF
c.s. -Mopx
,JbwG
PREGNANT?
V You dMn t MM to bf  a pregnancy test and 
iaf*mial help, call
84rthriBhtt621-1988
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107Type It RightFootnoteswithout tears
Full service word processing specialists Theses, Term-Papers, Dissertations Disk Storage Pickup & delivery available Open six days a week Mon.-Fri. 7 AM - 7 PM Sat. 9 AM - 12 NOON
Type It Right
5909 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15206 661-3386
COLLEGE JUNIORS AND SENIORS
Tuition Assistance
The Navy is seeking exceptional students with the necessary 
physical and personal qualifications to enter our Nuclear Propul
sion Officer (NUPOC) Program. Navy Nuclear Officers have the 
critical responsibility of managing our nuclear submarines and 
surface ships and their associated engineering plants.
Students eligible for the NUPOC program can receive:
 $1000 per month for up to 24 months before graduation 
plus a $3000 signing bonus.
 Starting saiary of over $24,000 increasing to over $46,000 
after four years.
 Six months graduate level study in engineering in Orlando. 
Florida.
 Full medical and dental coverage even while in school
This is not ROTC and your only responsibility is to continue your 
education to graduation. To qualify you must be a U.S. citizen 
between 19 and 26, pursuing a bachelors or masters degree, have 
completed at least one year of calculus and physics with a "B 
average or better overall. Students majoring in engineering, 
physics, math and chemistry preferred.
Call NAVY at 412/644-6435 or Toll-free 1-800-242-3736. In WV. 
OH and MD call Toll-free 1-800-245-1772 or send a letter and 
transcripts to:
Navy Officer Programs (60) 
Room 711
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanMarch 13, 1984
PLCB should be abolished says Libertarian
By Dan Tobias
Recently, the governor of Pennsylvania 
proposed that the state get out of the liquor 
store business. This is a very sensible prop
osal, as the state should never have gotten 
\ into that business in the first 
place. However, the proposal 
has faced vicious opposition 
I from various narrow-minded 
special interest groups, and may take years 
to pass, if it ever does.
The newest and most reprehensible tactic 
the pro-state store interests have devised is a 
radio commercial which they started to air 
recently. In it, a woman says, in effect, that if 
the liquor business is opened up to private 
operators, some teenager will go to a private 
store, where the salesclerk, corrupted by 
thoughts of his commission, (instead of 
being impeccably honest, as we all know is 
the intrinsic nature of all government 
employees) will sell him a bottle of liquor. 
The teenager will then get drunk, get into 
his car, careen down the road, and run over 
your young daughter. Honest, thats what 
the commercial says!
This is blatant propaganda, playing on 
the emotions of people to whom "liberty 
and "free enterprise are meaningless 
abstractions when compared to a vivid 
image of a litde girl being run over by a 
drunk driver. However, there is no basis in 
fact to the assertion that drunk driving 
would in fact increase if liquor sales were 
privatized. You can get just as drunk on beer 
as on liquor, and beer is sold by private 
companies.
Also, bars and nightclubs are privately 
run, and it seems to me that people are 
actually more likely to drive drunk after 
leaving a bar, than after leaving a liquor 
store, since most people buy liquor to bring
home, rather than drink on the spot, at a 
liquor store.
Actually, while the abolition of the state 
liquor store system would be a step in the 
right direction, I would not be fully satisfied 
with anything short of the total elimination 
of liquor laws. According to Libertarian 
principles, the only area in which the 
government may morally intervene is to pre
vent a person from inflicting direct harm to 
another. By that standard the mere sale of 
alcoholic beverages is not something the 
state can regulate.
The mere possibility that somebody 
might do something harmful does not jus
tify prior restraint by the government, as 
someone may just as easily drink the liquor 
in the privacy of his home and not harm 
anybody. Of course, as a corollary of this, I 
feel that somebody who causes harm to 
anybody while drunk (or on drugs) must 
bear full responsibility for his actions; the 
fact that he was not sober at the time should 
not be a legal excuse.
I consider the drinking age, especially 
when it is as high as 21, to be a particularly 
offensive law. It carries a presumption of 
irresponsibility among those of a given age 
group, despite the fact that in the last three 
years of that period you are considered 
responsible enough to select our political 
leaders (not that there is any real choice in 
elections, but that is another story), and 
must register for the draft.
The Reagan administration is presently 
attempting to bully this high drinking age 
through the legislatures of all the states that 
have so far held out in favor of the rights of 
young people. Since alcohol is an integral 
part of society (for better or worse), drinking 
age laws turn young people into secondclass citizens, and impose an arbitrary bar
rier between two classes of college students,
those under 21 and over 21, often forcing 
them to have separate parties, and thus 
impeding fraternization between people 
caught on opposite sides of this barrier.
If the direct application of liquor laws is 
offensive, some of the indirect uses govern
ments have put them to are even more so. 
For example, many localities have banned 
such forms of expression as topless dancing 
from licensed nightclubs. This seems to me 
to be out of the range of liquor authorities, 
as it does not direcdy concern alcohol, but 
they interpret the laws very broadly so as to 
justify regulation of every aspect of any 
establishment that has a liquor license.
An especially horrendous example of the 
use of liquor laws for "immoral purposes 
is the state of Oregons ban of Coors beer. 
This brand of beer is not explicitly named in 
a law, but is caught in an archaic law ban
ning beer that is not pasteurized. Coors is 
purified using a different process, which 
makes it just as pure, but is not covered by 
the law. However, the state legislature has 
refused to repeal this senseless law, and the 
reason is not hard to find.
Labor unions have a grudge against the
Coors company dating from a strike 10years 
ago, and they were the only people lobbying 
against legalization of that brand of beer in 
Oregon. So this is a clear example of how a 
bw ostensibly for the public safety is used to 
unpose one narrow groups grudge on the 
entire population of a state.
For these reasons, I feel it is imperative 
that all liquor laws be repealed, and alcohol 
be treated like any other commodity on the 
free market. In fact, before Prohibition it 
was largely this way, and there was only 
scattered regulation. However, as soon as 
the government showed that it had the right 
to take away the peoples right to drink, the 
use of alcohol became a privilege to be 
granted or revoked by the government.
The LCB should be abolished, and in 
fact, I would not object too much if al] 
agents of this organization were imprisoned 
as the criminals they truly are. Oh, yes 
Orpheus Allison is an accomplice, and 
should share the blame. I knew I couldn't 
get through a whole column on alcohol 
without mentioning him.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in apphei 
math and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Pratto's pacifism naive
continued from page 22
population, as the nation as a whole will 
take offense.
I believe in civil defense and passive resist
ance as an integrated part of the national 
defense. Relying solely on it is idealistic, 
self-deception. If you do, you are assuming 
every person to be good and just, or at least 
that the evil people will not be allowed to 
rule. Instead of just talking about Europe, I 
suggest Ms. Pratto goes there. Go to Finland 
and see Soviet defectors sent back "home 
never to be heard from again. Go to Sicily
and see the Mafia knock off local Commul 
nists. Go to Babi Jar, Auschwitz, Treblinkaj 
and Theresienstadt. Talk to people wh 
spent time in a death camp, and hear theitl 
bitter resentment towards what happened! 
Or talk to people who lived in Norway oil 
Holland during the war. Will you sayi 
them: Great Britain and the U.S.A. shou 
not have taken military action. You shou 
have used more pacifism. If you do say this! 
Ms. Pratto, they will think you are tooide 
istic, just as I do.
Thomas
Memorable careers in
COMPUTERSJoin a market leader!
We design megabytes of high-per
formance semiconductor memor
ies to expand some of the most 
popular high-power minicom
puters. Dataram is also well-known 
for innovative design and manu
facture of peripheral controllers 
and related products.
To keep pace with our success, 
were coming to campus to hire 
several graduating Electrical En
gineers in computer science 
courses.
Dataram is unique. Our manage
able size fosters an exciting, 
pleasant daily environment. Top 
management sets the tone for an 
informal, personal working at
mosphere, with everyone in the 
company on a first-name basis.
If you want to put your ideas into 
action, dont forget to make an 
appointment to see the Dataram 
interviewer.
March 27
HELP WANTED
BSEE seniors wanted to 
help create state-of-theart computer systems. 
Exciting Design Engi
neer positions at our HQ 
near Princeton. Friendly 
company with excellent 
salaries and benefits.
Call the colleges Career 
Placement Office today 
to schedule an interview. 
Dataram Corporation, an 
Equal Opportunity Em
ployer (M/F)....an un
equalled opportunity for
Carnegie-Mellon Career Services & Placement578*2064
Make some state-of-theart memories with us!

---------------------------------------------------

f ' ^ JfFunnies.
- ' ' ' *' 'f  '<
CAPTAIM KROAJ KITE ANDfctA tXHJ^ o/tp. 
OLD 155^5 OF THE CAMPU5 NEWSPAPER 
THF TARTAR pR)t-L
ROBOTICS INSTITUTE PEVEL0PE5...
MARCH '?a.: ADMIN ISTR.ATORS PISCUSS 11% TUITION
HIKE....... TOITION HIKE EXPLAMED-------
XBK - CMU COMPUTER DEAL..........
TWO YEAR. T*AWS/STftW TO RC.'s ANNOUNCED... 
APRIL, '?3 : LATEST MODEL XPM COMPUTER. 
ARRIVES____ A COMPl/TE^ IN EVER* Kooh ?.. .
XIM BEG-INNJNGTo SEE A PATTERN IN 
' [ ALL THIS, R.EX.......... IXVE SEEN THIS BEFORE...
LOOKINGUP 
FROM HI5 PAPER, 
THE CAPTAIN 
NOTICES THAT 
SOMETHING15 
"DIFFERENT 
OUTSIDE THE WlflDOVV.......
/BEY I TW/WmWA 
WASNT THERE F/VE 
/jlWfES A&Q5
'' '4*
POINDEXTER
pjftDCF..- 
vmrrim K THAT 80S Sfwz>
V T8rfltr?
> .VT&ur io .NWJ07BS A6o:
'V
TlLGrte 1WAT0tlS Fivr Iwr/MWU^. trooesH s-^ swo* op, r/w 
frcontiu
. / X y^r
MINUTES?
TMiAr.
SPRRRIN GC CAN CGVLGGF
TNEED 
C4RXOOK/15S
V\T OS W^YTVME 
W SHiftO SCj <58. 
CAU-UJ AT x 2.111 
OH. xi-lll I

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
Theater
Mar. 13-Mar. 17 The Singular Life of Albert 
Nobbs by Simone Benmussa. Boyce Campus 
Theatre, CCAC, Monroeville. Tue.-Sat. 8:30 
p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 733-4319.
Through Mar. 24 Orpheus Descending by 
Tennessee Williams. Univ. of Pgh. Theatre, Ste
phen Foster Memorial, Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
624-4101.
Through Mar. 25 The Elephant Man by Ber
nard Pomeranee. The Ridge Avenue Theater, 
CCAC Allegheny Campus, Ridge Ave., North 
Side. 237-2678.
Through Apr. 1 Nora-Julie by Ingmar Berg
man. Pgh. Public Theater, Allegheny Square, 
North Side. Tue., Wed. & Fri. 8 p.m.; Thu. 8c Sat.
2 8c 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 8c 7 p.m. 321-9800.
Mar. 23-Apr. 14 Rose by Andrew Davies. Pitts
burgh Laboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oak
land. 621-2879.
Music
Mar. 13 Graduate Recital: Paul Lennartz 
(trumpet). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 
578-2372.
Mar. 13 Foghat Concert. Stanley Showcase, 
Downtown. 8 p.m. 765-2266.
Mar. 13 Montserrat Torrent (organist). 
Including works by Bach, Cabezon & Bruna. 
St.Pauls Cathedral, N. Dithridge St., Oak
land. 8:30 p.m. 621-8525.
Mar. 14 Alumni Recital: Ellen Ginzberg (vio
lin). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578- 
2372.
Mar. 14 Benita Valente (soprano), with Cyn
thia Raim (piano). Y Music Society, JCC 
Morris Kaufman Audit., 315 S. Bellefield 
Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 521-8010.
Mar. 15 Zakir Hussain (tabla). Univ. of Pgh. 
Dept, of Music, Frick Fine Arts Audit., Schenley Park Dr., Oakland. 7:30 p.m. 624-4126. 
Mar. 15 Student Convocation. Alumni Con
cert Hall, CFA. 12:30 p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 15 Junior Recital: Jeffrey Nicodemus 
(trumpet) 8c Pat Phillips (voice). Alumni Con
cert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 15-17 Pgh. Symphony, conductor Her
bert Blomstedt. Including Haydns Sym
phony No. 102 8c Regers Variations 8c Fugue 
on a Merry Theme of Hiller. Thu. 8c Sat. 8 
p.m.; Fri. Pgh. Symphony Society, Heinz 
Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Downtown. 8:30 
p.m.392-4900.
Mar. 16 Junior Recital: Cathy Devor (voice) 8c 
Timothy Truschel (voice). Alumni Concert 
Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 16 Two Centuries of American Music. 
Including works by Ives, Billings, Buck 8c 
MacDowell. The Pgh. Camerata, Frick Fine 
Arts Bldg., Schenley Park Dr., Oakland. 8 
p.m. 247-4853.
Mar. 17 Senior Recital: Jody Hinton (percus
sion). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 3 p.m. 578-
2372.
Mar. 18 Missa Solemnis, by Ludvig von 
Beethoven. Pgh. Symphony Orchestra, con
ductor Robert Page, 8c Mendelssohn Choir, 
with Faye Robinson (soprano), Florence Quivar (mezzo-soprano), Alan Crabb (tenor) 8c 
William Powers (bass-baritone). Pgh. Sym
phony Society, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., 
Downtown. 8 p.m. 392-4900.
Mar. 19 Martino Tirimo (piano). Including 
works by Beethoven, Schubert, Liszt 8c Deb
ussy. William Pitt Union Audit., Fifth Ave. 8c 
Bigelow Blvd., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4126. 
Mar. 19 & 20 Pgh. Chamber Music Project 
Concert. Including Bachs Partita #2 in d 
minor for violin 8c Villa-Lobos Sexteto 
Mistico. Wildsisters Restaurant, 27th 8c Jane 
Sts., South Side. 8 p.m. 241-4243.
Films
Mar. 13 Ninotchka with Greta Garbo, Melvyn Douglas 8c Bela Lugosi (US 1939). Pgh. 
Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 
9:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 13 Panama: And You Thought It Was 
Only a Canal (Travel Adventure Series). Car
negie Institute, Carnegie Music Hall, 4400 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1 8c 7 p.m. 622-3314. 
Mar. 14 Some Like It Hot with Jack Lem
mon, Tony Curtis 8c Marilyn Monroe (US 
1959). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 15 Lion In Winter with Katharine 
Hepburn 8c Peter OToole (US 1968). Activi
ties Board, Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8:30 8c 11 
p.m.
Mar. 15 The Awful Truth with Irene 
Dunne, Cary Grant 8c Ralph Bellamy (US 
1937). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 16 Sophies Choice with Meryl Streep, 
Kevin Kline 8c Peter MacNichol (US 1982). 
Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 
8c 10:15 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 16 Werner Herzog Eats His Shoe (US 
1979), Sprout Wings and Fly (US 1983) 8c 
In Heaven There Is No Beer? (US 1983) by 
Les Blank. Museum of Art Theatre, Carnegie 
Institute, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 
622-3212.
Mar. 16 & 17 Fighting for the Obvious dir. 
Virago Video (US 1983) 8c Thriller dir.
Sally Porter (US 1979). Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 
Oakland Ave., Oakland. Fri. 8c Sat. 8 8c 10 p.m. 
681-5449.
Mar. 17 The Tin Drum dir. Volker Schlondorff (Germany 1980). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 10 p.m. 621-4445. 
Mar. 17 Senso dir. Luchino Visconti (Italy 
1954). Museum of Art Theatre, Carnegie Insti
tute, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622- 
3212.
Mar. 18 The Bigamist with Joan Fontaine, 
dir. Ida Lupino (US 1953). Pgh. Film-Makers, 
205 Oakland Ave., Oakland. 2 8c 8 p.m. 681 - 
5449.
Mar. 18 You Cant Take It With You with 
James Stewart 8c Lionel Barrymore, dir. Frank 
Capra (US 1938). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:45 p.m. 621-4445. 
Mar. 18 The Great Great Lakes (Travel 
Adventure Series). Carnegie Institute, Carne
gie Music Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
2:30 p.m. 622-3314.
Mar. 19 A Boy and His Dog with Jason 
Robards (US 1975). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m. 621-4445. 
Mar. 20 Sweet Charity with Shirley 
MacLaine 8c Sammy Davis, dir. Bob Fosse (US 
1968). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30 8c 9:50 p.m. 621-4445.
Current Films
Blame it on Rio with Michael Caine, Joseph 
Bologna 8c Valerie Harper (R). Kings Court, 3807 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 682-2334.
Broadway Danny Rose with Woody Allen 8c 
Mia Farrow (PG). Squirrel Hill, 5824 Forward 
Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-7900.
El Norte/The North by Gregory Nava (R). 
English subtitles. Manor, 1729 Murray Ave., 
Squirrel Hill. 421-1633.
Harry 8c Son with Paul Newman 8c Robby 
Benson (PG). Manor, 1729 Murray Ave., Squirrel 
Hill. 421-1633.
Silkwood (AA Nominee) with Meryl Streep 
(AA Nominee), Cher (AA Nominee) 8: Kurt Rus
sell (R). Regent Square, 1035 S. Braddock Ave., 
Edgewood. 241-2332.
The Dresser (AA Nominee) with Albert Finney 
(AA Nominee) 8c Tom Courtenay (PG). Squirrel 
Hill, 5824 Forward Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-7900.
Readings
Mar. 13 Jenny Hegedus (poetry) 8c Mary Moodey 
(fiction). The Back Room, Hemingways, 3911 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-6642.
Mar. 14 George Garrett (fiction). Adamson 
Wing, Baker Hall 135. 8 p.m.
Mar. 20 Michael Chat>on (poetry) 8c PamelaTur 
ley (poetry). The Back Room, Hemingways 
3911 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-6642
Exhibits
Through Mar. 18 "Susan Rothenburg." 
temporary paintings. Gallery D, Carnegie 
Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212 
Through Mar. 25 Pittsburgh Print Group Exhi
bition 8c Valda Cox: Forms in Porcelain. AAP 
Gallery, Pgh. Center for the Arts, Fifth Sc Shadv 
Aves., Shadyside. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun 
2-5 p.m. 361-0873.
Through Apr. 8 Artiture: Furniture of the 80 s." 
Pgh. Center for the Arts, Fifth 8c Shady Aves. 
Shadyside. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 2-5 
p.m. 361-0873.
Through Apr. 13 Photography in the Gallerv: 
Tom McGovern. Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oak
land Ave., Oakland. Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-8 p.m.; 
Sat. noon-3 p.m. 681-4445.
Through Apr. 21 Fairfield Porter (1907-1975). 
Realist Painter in an Age of Abstraction. Galler
ies 12 8c B, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3200.
Through Apr. 21 Japanese Prints by Utagawa 
Kunisada I (Toyokuni III) 1830-1860. Gallery
10, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m ' 
622-3200.
Through Apr. 29 Arctic Plant Life: Adaptations 
for Survival. Changing Exhibits Gallery, Came 
gie Museum of Natural History, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3283. |
Through Apr. 29 Natural World Photographic 
Exhibition. CMNH Gallery, Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283. 
Through Apr. 29 Joan Witek: Drawings, 1976-1 
1984. Gallery 1, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 ( 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; j 
Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3200.
Mar. 18-Apr. 15 James P. Nelson, Harry Levine, I 
Diane Ranker 8c Elizabeth Whiteley. Pgh. Plan I 
for Art, 407 S. Craig St., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 101 
a.m,-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 683-7600.
Sports
Mar. 14 SOCCER. Pgh. Spirit vs. St. Louis. Civic 
Arena, Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642-1800.
Dance
Mar. 15-18 The American Dance Ensemble. Pgh 
Playhouse Theatre Center, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 621-4445.
Mar. 20 &21 Alvin Ailey Dance Theatre. PgM 
Dance Council, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Avel 
Downtown. 8 p.m. 392-4900.ROAD SCHOLAR
Get o free T-shirt when you rent from Notional.
Rent a car from National at any of the locations below and enjoy the benefits. Low 
prices. No mileage charge. Clean, comfortable cars. And now, a free T-shirt, too!
T-shirts are available to all first-time renters. Just pick up and complete a free T-shirt 
coupon (available around campus or at the National Car Rental office nearest you) and 
submit it when you rent your car.
Well even make renting a car easy for you. You must be 18 or older, have a current 
student ID and drivers license. You can use a major credit card or submit a cashqualifying application 24-hours prior to your rental. Either way, the T-shirt is yours free. 
Offer good while supplies last
National Car Rental
Available at:
Doug Hess Exxon(4621 Forbes Ave.-Oakland)
WE GIVE Y01 NATIONAL ATTENTION." 
ANDTHATSTHETRLTH.
682-1444
ACTION RESUMES
 LOW COST STUDENT 
RESUME PACKAGES
 PERSONAL INTERVIEW
 INDIVIDUALLY
DESIGNED & WRITTEN
 UNIQUE COVER &
FOLLOW UP LETTERS
 PERSONALIZED
WORD PROCESSING
 JOB SEARCH
STRATEGIES
o FREE - 15 TYPED
ORIGINALS OF YOUR 
ONE PAGE RESUME 
JON DELL ENTERPRISES 
345 FOURTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH. PA 15222 
412-391-4278

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
99-100 STRATEGIC M CLEAR POLICY
Is nuclear winter for real . . . 
does it matter?
A Campus-Wide G>urse Open to All 
C-Ml I ndergraduate and Graduate Students. 
Faculty, Staff and Their Families
APRIL 20 AND 21, 1984
Housing
AvailApr-L Shadyside unfum. apt. 2d fir., 1 br.
References, lease, $325 + utilities. Same, avail. 
^Iay i, 1st fir. 621-0812 day; 767-9942 eve.
Jobs
Earn $3-00/hour by helping a local hospital and 
CMU in a Patient Reintegration Program. For 
more info call Deborah x2806 or sign up in the
Psychology Department (subject pool table). 
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
85713.
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
85713.
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
85713.
Help Wanted: 2 full-time positions available in sunny Santa Barbara, California. Lisp systems 
programmer  will be developing 68,000 Lisp. 
Knowledge engineer  will be developing expert system on Symbolics 3600. Contact Denison Bollay, inference technologies division of The Original Computer Camp, Inc. 800-235-6965.
Services
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
T-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for 
the campus community. Call the T-Shirt Company at 578-3535 and speak to John for details.
L Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/acaWdemic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
^Attention CMU sunbathers! Surfs up but our 
(prices arent! From just $109  spend 7 fun-filled 
ys in sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organ
ize a small group and travel FREE! Great for 
lubs, too! Call LUV TOURS 800-368-2006, ask 
or Annette.
Typing/word processing. Theses, term papers, 
nanuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
md Turabian manuals strongly followed). Speialize in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour ser
vice 371-3657.
Income tax returns prepared by professional  
| reasonable. Call for an appointment. 261-1860 or
421-6932.
eligion
Mondays are special! Every Monday night from 
8-9, in Skibo Room 39, an Informal Bible Discus
sion group meets to talk about Gods Word as it 
relates to campus life. Everyone is welcome to 
participate in this time of learning and fellow
ship. For further information, please call 441 - 
0819 and ask for John.
TECH HOUSE: CMUs on-campus, Catholic, 
co-operative house is looking for students inter
ested in joining the house for the 84-85 school 
year. Interested men and women are asked to call 
Andy,. Lisa, Michele, or Judy at 621-2911. Please 
call as soon as possible as we are filling the house 
now.
Bible talk group meets every Monday evening at
8 in Skibo Room 39. For a great time of learning 
and fellowship, this is the place to be. Set some 
time aside and be there! For more information, 
call 441-0819, and ask for John.
Calvary Episcopal Church, Shady Ave. 8c Walnut 
St. in Shadyside, is offering two additional servi
ces of Holy Eucharist to its regular weekly sche
dule: Thursdays at 12:10 p.m.; and Sundays at 6 
p.m. rhese services are short and informal, 
designed specifically to accommodate those with 
limited time schedules. Those attending the 
Thursday services are invited to bring their 
lunches along; coffee and tea will be provided. 
Following the Sunday services, Calvary' will hold 
a weekly Lenten supper at minimal cost; advance 
reservations are requested and may be made by 
calling 661-0120.
Clubs
Explorers Club. Kayaking, cross-country skiing, 
and hiking trips. Meetings on Thursdays, 6:30 
Skibo Room 12.
Student entrepreneurs interested in establishing 
or running a business on campus are invited to 
contact Student Corporation at x3535.
General
For Sale/Wanted
I_______________________________
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U. 
I S. Government5 Get the facts today! Call (312) 
 742-1142 Ext 3401A 
Adoption: lx>ving , well-educated, financially 
secure couple desires white newborn. All 
expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call us col(617)358-6354.
---------------------------------------------------------
Byzantine Catholic Mass. Divine Liturgy is cele| rated at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Skibo 39. All 
yzantine Catholics and anyone interested in the 
I astem rite church is invited to join us.
Ijpeace: Personal, Community and World Issues 
the Catholic Oratory invites you to attend a 
-enten Lecture Series scheduled for the six Sunkysfrom March 11 through April 15 at 2:30 p.m. 
-n Synd Hall (behind St. Pauls Cathedral on N. 
I Craig St. in Oakland). For more informarion, 
\ the Oratory at 681-3181. Set aside some time 
ls Lent for adult Christian education and 
nrichment.
j ^atholk Oratory  undergraduates interested in 
I e Oratory Undergrad Felloship Night are
I jailed to meet at 5:30 p.m. on Wednesdays at the 
1 ((h House (next to Donner Hall) for the walk
I 0 the Oratory.
Have you any compliments or complaints about 
anything academic at CMU? Please tell is at Aca
demic Affairs Comm, c/o Skibo Info Desk.
If you found a plaid scarf (mostly blue) in DH 
2210 on Friday, March 2, please, call x8677. Of 
sentimental value.
Ray Yutzi, outgoing president of the Three Riv
ers Paddling Club and co-chair of the AYH Pgh. 
Council Kayaking Program, will present a show 
of white water trips in western PA 8c WV moun
tain streams. Techniques will be discussed for 
running white water in a raft, canoe, kayak 8c 
inner tube. The program will take place at the 
monthly meeting of the Sierra Club Allegheny 
Group, Wednesday, March 14, 7:30 p.m., at the 
Pgh. Garden Center, Fifth 8c Shady in Shadyside. 
The Pittsburgh council of the American Youth 
Hostels will hold a free rock climbing workshop, 
Wednesday, March 14, at 7 p.m. at the Pittsburgh 
council AYH headquarters in Mellon Park in 
Shadyside, adjacent to the Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts. This free beginner climbers workshop 
will cover all aspects of ropes, knots, slings, hard
ware and techniques. Information call: 421-7114 
or 521-6404.
INPO (Instititue of Nuclear Power Operations) 
has recently awarded a fellowship in the field of 
health physics to the University of Pittsburgh 
Department of Radiation Health for the 1984-85 
academic year. The fellowship will be offered to a 
masters level student who intends to pursue a 
career in power generation health physics. It will 
provide the student with a stipend of $6,500 with 
an addiuonal $2,500 educational allowance to 
help defray the cost of tuition and fees. For 
further information contact: Dr. Joseph A. Wat
son, A512 Crabtree Hall, Graduate School of 
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pitts
burgh, PA 15261, (412) 624-2732.
LECTURES AND DISCUSSIONS 
BY OVER A DOZEN LEADING 
INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS
This course will consist of three major parts:
PART 1: BACKGROUND
An exploration of the history and evolution of 
strategic nuclear policy; a review of current 
policy; and a summary of current and projected 
force postures.
(Afternoon and evening of Fridav, April 20)
PART 2: WEATHER AND CLIMATE 
IMPACTS OF NUCLEAR W AR
A review of the present scientific evidence on 
possible weather and climate impacts of nuclear 
war. Separate sections for technical and non
technical participants are planned; discussion of 
ecological implications: exploration of the 
nature and implications of uncertainties. 
(Evening of Friday, April 20 and Morning ot 
Saturday, April 21)
PART 3: HAT ... IF ANYTHING . ..
SHOULD WE IK) DIFFERENTLY
Presentations and an extended roundtable dis
cussion of the implications for strategic nuclear 
policy of evidence.
(Afternoon of Saturday, April 21)
rHE COURSE WILL BE OPEN FOR 
TWO UNITS OF CREDIT OR FOR 
Al DIT. There will lie a modest reading and 
writing assignment for those taking the course 
for credit.
Al l. ATTENDEES MIST REGISTER.
Registration tables will lzp set up in the Skiln> 
Libby at mid-day on selected davs m late March 
and early April. (Lall campus extension 2672 or 
visit Baker Hall 12*) for further information.
Hi Icourse is sponsored l>\ the Office < the President ami 
I liemg organized h\ a tai uit\ committee consisting ot 
Professors H. (joulam. (, McRae. (, Morgan (chairman). 
H. Simon am) M Salomone.
CAU. 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

GRAND OPENING
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
Fast FREE Delivery
6 8 3-0400
4740 Baum Blvd, OaklandPgh, PA.
13 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
PEPPERONI GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
BACON GREEN PEPPERS MUSHROOMS
1216
Cheese...................$4.29 ..........................$6.08
1 Item.............. 4.98 ........................ 6.98
2 Items............ 5.75 ........................ 7.95
3 Items............ 6.52 ........................ 8.92
4 Items............ 7.29 ........................ 9.89
5 Items........___ 8.06 ........................10.86
SPRI NGCI AVLLC 5 ITEMS FOR THE PRICE OF 4
pi I iyP PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS, ONIONS, GREEN PEPPERS* M bLUAb SORRY NO SUBSTITUTIONS_______________
FREE DELIVERY* 
WITHIN 30 MIN.
10 MIN. PICK-UP
STORE HOURS:
SUN-THURS 11 AM-2 AM 
FRI 8c SAT 11 AM-3 AM
*WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.
VALUABLE COUPONS
I COUPON  mm   COUPON 
ui "  KWSK
$^offJJhi$ \
I PON mm mm mm m
 FOUR STAR
coupon m* mmm mm
  fO
OFF1 *3I
____ - _____nivI PT77A !I
PEPPIBONI, SAUSAGE. MUSHKUOMS,     I I XjLL 1 1 A 1# JM iii 
ONIONS, ANO G*EEN PEPPERS   M M HI W
AND FOUR FREE 16 OZ. CUPS ^ 1(l jpg AND FOUR FREE 16 02 CUPS AND TWO FREE 16 07 O PS
M
QFOOKE   OF POKE___________
NAMt ADD SS I  name ADD SS II<Jccm gg
ONE COUPON PtBP'TT*coupon e*pis 6/1/84MVE fit SIB.S TNE .bc|a mc 
OU PEUI
AND FOUR FRFE 16 02. OJPS
OF CUkJL.ADDBESS
0*1 COUPON Pt8 PiZZa 
COUPON {XPIBESwe ${ Tnf
BIGHT TOl'MiT Og DEI
ONE COUPON Pf  PIZZA *iBStBv{fHf " ONI COUPON PEB BIZZA 13COUC PNt
BIGHT TO LIMITCOUPON tXP'KtS A/1/R4 IVHUIIMH ___ iwrun C/t/O A UHI IWl'MM _ COUPON X PIBfS C/I/QA - ------- -----------------------
 OUBOEtlVIBV ABiA  M O' 1/84 OgB DEl'VfBV ABEA  m OUfi DEUVEB* AfilA i| ^
mm coupon  mM mm mm coupon     coupon    
BIGHT aR UMiT OuBDEl
-D:Dw (xpiacs 6/i/g4
COUPON
d 4.ed0.vi EhT
