FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Dancing with the Stars starts of strong  B6Mens and womens soccer come out on top  A10TOC, BOC can be held at more convenient times  A8
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 23, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 5
PARK(ing) Day transforms Oakland parking spaces
CHRIS GALVIN
Junior Staffwriter
This past Friday, members 
of the Pittsburgh community 
gathered for PARK(ing) Day, 
a one-day worldwide event 
where volunteers, including 
Carnegie Mellon students, 
convert metered parking spots 
into temporary public parks.
The PARK(ing) Day projects mission is to call attention to the need for more urban open space, to generate 
critical debate around how 
public space is created and 
allocated, and to improve 
the quality of urban human 
habitat, according to the 
PARK(ing) Day website.
The project was started by 
an art and design studio in 
San Francisco in 2005 and has 
since spread across the globe. 
The 2011 PARK(ing) Day inspired 975 parks in 162 cities, 
35 countries, and six continents.
Participants of the project 
have gone beyond the original 
pop-up park design to create 
one-day events within a metered parking spot. 
These call attention to other social issues in their speci?c 
communities with projects 
like free health clinics, mini 
farms, political discussions, 
ecology demonstrations, and 
art installations.
Pittsburgh has participated 
in PARK(ing) Day since 2008, 
with up to 30 parks sprouting around the city each year. 
Masters student in design Emily Abell and senior industrial 
design major Sharon Winter, 
along with four other graduate students in design, set up 
a parking spot on Forbes Avenue near Atwood Street last 
Friday from 8 a.m.  3 p.m. 
They fed the meter and used 
an arti?cial grass carpet, potted trees, branches, stumps, 
and a makeshift bench to create their park.
We wanted to focus on 
recycling and sustainability; 
everything we used we found 
in our own backyards or in 
Schenley Park, except for the 
fake grass, Abell said.
The group also included 
interactive components in 
their park, inviting passers-by 
to write their thoughts about 
public parks on Post-it notes 
and to plant seeds in disposable cups from nearby food 
vendors. 
The notes were displayed 
in the park on wires strung 
between the potted trees; they 
included expressions of love 
for biking, hiking, picnicking, and clean air, as well as 
sketches of parks and trees.
The park garnered attention throughout the day from 
pedestrians who frequently 
stopped to ask questions, write 
down their ideas, and even eat 
lunch with the students. We 
got a group of of?ce workers 
from across the street. They 
said they had been watching 
us all day and just had to come 
down and see what we were 
doing, Winter said.
Other memorable onlookers included an enthusiastic 
Courtesy of Emily Abell
Friday was PARK(ing) Day, a worldwide event for which volunteers turned metered parking spaces into small parks.  
See PARKING, A3
Tepper alumna authors book
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
Bold: Get Noticed, Get 
Hired, a book written by a 
Tepper School of Business 
graduate and two University of Pittsburgh graduates, 
focuses on trying to make 
a meaningful connection 
with in?uential people in 
order to land a job.
The book was co-written 
by Liz Madsen (TSB 11), 
Joshua Siva, and Melanie 
Feldman, Pitt graduates 
who took an entrepreneurship course at Carnegie 
Mellon. It was of?cially released Aug. 27, and is available in physical or digital 
versions on Amazon. Bolds 
website describes the book 
as based on creative strategies from real people who 
went from the middle of 
the rsum pile to the top, 
promising, We break down 
exactly what they did and 
how they did it so that you 
can build your own strategy 
off their success.
Especially to the attention span of a recent college 
grad, this book will be very 
useful. It gets to the point, 
Feldman said.
The book covers examples and stories involving 
personalities such as ESPN 
sportscaster Neil Everett, as 
well as those of Alec Brownstein, who created a social 
media experiment where 
top advertising executives 
saw ads directed at them 
speci?cally when they performed a Google search of 
their own names.
Our goal was to have a 
product we can get behind 
and would read ourselves, 
Feldman said.
Weve put everything 
behind this, Siva said, adding that reader feedback 
has new ideas coming up 
in parallel.
Madsen added, the 
whole idea of the book is to 
help people land jobs, and 
described the possibility of 
second and third editions 
containing stories and examples from readers.
Siva explained that their 
group had tried all different sorts of tech ventures, 
but none of us are coders. 
It just so happened that Mel 
had gotten a job in a very 
different way.
Co-authors Siva and 
Feldman met in the Tepper 
class Topics in Entrepreneurship taught by professor R. F. Culbertson. Both 
Siva and Feldmen were Pitt 
students at the time, and 
took the class through the 
Tepper School of Business. 
Culbertson described via 
See BOOK, A3
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
Michael J. Tarr will take 
up the role of head of the 
department of psychology 
in January 2014, according 
to a university press release. 
Tarr, currently the George A. 
and Helen Dunham Cowan 
Professor of Cognitive Neuroscience, will succeed Michael 
Scheier, who has occupied 
the position for more than a 
decade.
Tarr, who grew up in Pittsburgh, joined the faculty in 
2009 after holding several 
positions at other universities. He received his Ph.D. 
from MIT in 1989, subsequently spending six years at 
Yale University and 14 years 
at Brown University before 
arriving at Carnegie Mellon. 
When asked why he chose 
to come to Carnegie Mellon, 
Tarr pointed to the awesome 
interdisciplinary training offered by the psychology department.
His research focuses on 
how the brain takes 2-D images from the retina to create 
3-D perceptions of events and 
items. His faculty biography 
notes some of his areas of 
expertise, including face and 
object recognition, visual 
categorization, and computaTarr makes a mark on psychology dept.
Courtesy of Michael Tarr
Michael Tarr, professor of cognitive neuroscience, was recently named 
head of the department of psychology.
See PSYCH, A3
Tepper graduate sheds light on entrepreneurship and jobs
LILAH BUCHANAN
Junior Staffwriter
Micah Rosa (TSB 11) in 
his two years out of school 
with the launch of his media 
consulting business, Shoutside Media. The company  
was featured in the Pittsburgh 
Business Times earlier this 
month.
Rosas knack for entrepreneurial endeavors started well 
before he graduated, when he 
created Shoutside Medias 
predecessor SurhRosa in the 
course Introduction to Entrepreneurship. 
According to the Pittsburgh 
Business Times, SurhRosa was 
a Web design agency that 
grew from a class project to a 
business serving restaurants 
around the city.
Now a CEO in the world 
of media advertising, Rosa 
offered advice to current and 
recently graduated Carnegie 
Mellon students.
Above all else, Rosa advocated for the importance of 
computer skills in an increasingly online world. 
No matter what department you are in, ?nd a computer science student and be 
friends with them, Rosa said 
in an interview. Otherwise, 
bring the computer center 
cookies, and ask to watch. 
You need to know computers. You need to know 
someone who really knows 
computers, he said.
In the same vein, Rosa emphasized that students should 
forget Spanish, forget Chinese, forget Japanese  and 
learn Java or HTML5.
Shoutside Media provides 
mobile website design and 
online advertising for companies looking to participate 
more effectively in the information age. Calling on the 
skills of computer programmers, Rosa has carved out a 
pro?table niche in the media 
world.
According to Shoutsides 
website, Marketing does not 
just mean TV and Newspaper 
anymore. From YouTube ad 
campaigns to Facebook Like 
Gate promotions-we know 
FEATURE PHOTOMulticultural Night held in the UC 
Courtesy of Jim Chang 
Sophomore information systems major Nathan Oh and sophomore chemistry major Sukjin Jang prepare 
kabobs at the Asian Student Associations table at Multicultural Late Night in Kirr Commons last Friday.
Especially to 
the attention 
span of a 
recent college 
grad, this book 
will be very 
useful.  It gets 
to the point.
Melanie        
Feldman
Co-author 
You need to know computers. 
You need to know someone who 
really knows computers.  
Micah Rosa
Tepper alumnus 2011
See ADVICE, A4

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 23, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFCampus celebrates CIT Pride Day 
WEATHER
Makeup Bag Theft
Sept. 13, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to the University 
Center in response to a theft 
report. According to the victim, her blue Vera Bradley 
makeup bag containing cosmetics valued at $150 was stolen from the UC locker room. 
The bag was taken some time 
between 12:30 p.m. on Sept. 
12 and 12:00 p.m. on Sept. 13.
Hit and Run 
Sept. 14, 2013
      University Police responded 
to a minor hit-and-run accident in the East Campus Garage. A witness saw a silver 
minivan hit a parked, black 
SUV. According to the witness, 
the driver of the minivan did 
not check for damage or give 
information. The driver of the 
minivan is being charged in 
relation to the accident.
Disorderly Conduct 
Sept. 14, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Gesling Stadium in response to an unattended black backpack. 
Upon investigation, the bag 
was found to contain a small 
amount of marijuana and 
drug paraphernalia. The owner of the bag was cited for disorderly conduct after the bag 
and all of its legal contents 
were returned to him.
Underage Drinking
Sept. 15, 2013
Upon responding to reports of a combative male in 
the Doherty Apartments parking lot, University Police realized that the male was carrying a false ID card. Of?cers 
calmed the man down and 
CMU EMS evaluated him before city medics brought him 
to the hospital. The male is 
being charged with underage 
drinking and carrying a false 
ID card.
Public Drunkenness 
Sept. 15, 2016
University Police, city police, and city medics responded to a call at The Porch at 
Schenley in regard to an extremely intoxicated Carnegie 
Mellon student. The student 
was brought to the hospital 
and will be cited for public 
drunkenness by the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police.
Money Scam
Sept. 16, 2013
A male Carnegie Mellon 
student ?led a report regarding a money scam. According to the student, on Sept. 
9, right after 2 a.m., a black 
woman in a white sedan 
pulled up next to the male 
and asked for gas. The woman told the student that she 
was an attorney named Paige 
who needed to get to the hospital to see her sick mother. 
The student gave the woman 
$40 in cash, thinking that the 
woman would reimburse him 
the next day. The student never received the money. Similar scams have been reported 
around the Oakland area over 
the last year.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jason Chen/Junior Photographer
Friday marked CIT Pride Day, a celebration of Carnegie Mellons college of engineering. At the celebration, CIT students received free T-shirts, water 
bottles, and other CIT-branded gear. Students who wore CIT shirts received even more CIT paraphernalia. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Carnegie Mellon named 
Neil M. Donahue as director 
of its Steinbrenner Institute 
for Environmental Education and Research (SEER). 
Donahue succeeds David A. 
Dzombak, who left SEER to 
become head of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering.
Donahue is a professor of 
chemical engineering, chemistry, and engineering and 
public policy, and he is founding director of Carnegie Mellons Center for Atmospheric 
Particle Studies.
Its a great opportunity 
to lead such a diverse and 
dynamic institute as environmental issues continue 
to emerge. I look forward to 
having our research complement ongoing work at the 
newly created Scott Institute 
as we all strive to solve the 
environmental and energy 
issues of the 21st century, 
Donahue said in a university 
press release.
Donahue has been at 
Carnegie Mellon for over a 
decade, ?rst joining the faculty in 2000. 
He has more than 150 
peer-reviewed publications; 
his research focuses on the 
behavior of organic compounds in the atmosphere.
Mark Kamlet, Carnegie 
Mellon provost and executive vice president, is excited 
to see Donahue head SEER. 
We look forward to having 
Neil as the new director to 
continue to help the Steinbrenner Institute change the 
ways the world thinks and 
acts about the environment, 
Kamlet said.
New head of Steinbrenner Institute announced
CMU English professor publishes book
Jon Klancher, a professor 
of English at Carnegie Mellon and director of the literary and cultural studies program, recently published a 
book titled Trans?guring the 
Arts and Sciences: Knowledge 
and Cultural Institutions in 
the Romantic Age.
Klanchers book takes an 
interdisciplinary approach 
to looking at Romantic literary and critical writing to 
transformations in the history of science, history of the 
book, and art history.
The new cultural institutions reached out to the 
public and engaged them in 
discussions about the ongoing arts debates and scienti?c controversies, Klancher 
said in a university press release. There were constantly changing arguments about 
what the sciences are, where 
poetry ?ts in, how print media and the visual arts were 
transforming the shapes of 
public knowledge. 
Klanchers studies have 
focused on the Romantic 
and Victorian eras, history of 
books and reading, and the 
sociology of cultural ?elds. 
His previous book, The Making of English Reading Audiences, 1790-1832, was a 
sketch of the Romantic era 
in England based on reading patterns and relations of 
new reading audiences during the time period.
Ex Of?cio ReportSergeant-at-Arms
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
75 / 54
SATURDAY
High / Low
74 / 59
SUNDAY
High / Low
68 / 55
TUESDAY
High / Low
70 / 48
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
71 / 51
THURSDAY
High / Low
73 / 52
Thursdays ex of?cio report 
came from Pascal Petter, director of dining services; Tom 
Caccavo, CulinArt regional 
district manager; and Larry 
Lee, associate dean of student 
affairs for operations. Lee and 
Petter, who are new to Carnegie Mellon, discussed their respective roles and their plans 
for dining and campus life.
Caccavo, Lee, and Petter 
also addressed current CulinArt contract negotiations 
and protests recently staged 
by CulinArt employees. The 
speakers took questions from 
several Senators about both 
the CulinArt protests and the 
future of housing and dining 
at Carnegie Mellon.
The speakers also discussed changes that they were 
planning to make to campus 
housing and dining, including a better system for getting 
comments and questions from 
students. 
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Vacancy Elections
Vaasavi Unnava, a ?rstyear economics major, gave 
a brief speech before the 
Senate voted that she become Sergeant-at-Arms. 
Unnava will handle 
meeting logistics, such as 
creating slide shows based 
on the agenda, and will 
hold the Senate tablecloth.
Several new membersat-large were also inducted 
on Thursday. To become a 
member-at-large, a student 
must attend at least three 
Senate meetings and be 
nominated by a Senator.
All of the potential members-at-large introduced 
themselves and talked 
about why they wanted to 
get involved in Senate before the Senate body voted 
for their induction.
Two new Senators were 
inducted after this weeks 
vacancy elections. First-year 
CIT student Nkind Ambalo 
and sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering major 
Nandini Ramakrishnan are 
now Senators. Ambalo and 
Ramakrishnan both gave brief 
speeches about their experience and motivation for being 
in Senate.
Ramakrishnan, as a sophomore, wanted to get involved 
in Senate her ?rst year at 
Carnegie Mellon but only now 
has the time. 
Ambalo has extensive experience in student government and Model United Nations from his high school. 
Another vacancy election 
will be held next week for 
the empty seat in the Tepper 
School of Business. There are 
still three empty seats in CIT, 
three in CFA, and one in SCS.
Members-at-Large

---------------------------------------------------

blogger who took a video of 
the park, three deaf students 
who communicated through 
Post-it notes, and a group 
of 20 bikers touring all 20 
PARK(ing) spots in the city. 
People asked if we were taking donations or what the 
purpose of this was, but its 
all just to get people to think 
about the way we use urban 
space, Abell said.
The project triggered conversations about the desire 
for more public space, the 
need for improved public 
transport to decrease traf?c and pollution, and rising 
prices in parking meters. The 
project also brought to light 
other urban issues and alternatives that many guests to 
the make shift parks admitted 
to never having considered 
before. People asked us if 
we got any negative remarks, 
but we didnt really; everyone 
was really positive and excited about the idea, Abell said.
Abell and Winter graduate from Carnegie Mellon 
in the spring, but they hope 
that other Carnegie Mellon 
students will participate in 
next years PARK(ing) Day 
and that the project will continue to grow in support and 
interest, both within Carnegie 
Mellon and the larger Pittsburgh community, and inspiring more people to change the 
way they use urban space.
More information about 
PARK(ing) Day in Pittsburgh 
and around the world can 
be found at pghparkingday.
wordpress.com and parking 
day.org.
email that their book offers 
example after example of individuals who just went after 
it - got upset with the current process (emotion is often what it takes) - and found 
their own solution [] I think 
?nding the people and getting 
their stories is great.
Culbertson went on to describe that Entrepreneurship 
is so often a mindset more 
than an exact science, and 
the mutual love of sales was 
the common element about 
Mel and Josh.
Weve had a sounding 
board in R.F. Culbertson, 
Siva said. His major mantra is to focus on the pain 
that people have and treat it. 
Theres a lot of pain for recent 
graduates.
Junior business administration major Laviniu Filimon 
feels that the books connections to Carnegie Mellon 
could have a good effect on 
current students who will enter the workforce soon. Having a Tepper grad participate 
in this guide book will encourage CMU students to be more 
active in their job searches, 
Filimon said.
The book has received really positive reactions. Were 
off to a better start than we 
thought, Feldman said. People we didnt expect had read 
the whole book and were organically spreading it.
Were young. We just did 
this, Madsen said. We went 
through that pain, so were 
writing this in real time.
September 23, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
How many law schools can ?t  in one room?
Tuesday, September 24, 2013    11 a.m.  2 p.m.
Rangos Ballroom, 2nd Floor, University Center
3rd Annual Law School Fair
Current students and alumni are invited to Carnegie 
Mellons 3rd Annual Law School Fair. Meet with 
representatives from more than 50 of the countrys  
top law schools right here on campus. 
The Fair will be held on the Carnegie Mellon University 
campus on Tuesday, September 24, from 11 a.m.   
2 p.m., in the Rangos Ballroom on the 2nd ?oor of the 
University Center. 
A program of three workshops will both precede and  
follow the fair, from 10  11 a.m. and 2  3 p.m. These 
will occur in the McKenna, Peter and Wright rooms,  
also on the 2nd ?oor of the University Center, adjacent  
to the Rangos Ballroom. 
The workshop topics will be:
	The	Road	Less	Traveled:	Law	as	an	Option	for	 
Students in Science, Technology and the Arts
	A	Mock	Law	School	Admissions	Committee:	 
Three Case Studies of Law School Admissions  
Decision Making
	When	to	Go	to	Law	School		Right	After	College,	 
or Later? Trends and Advice
For a schedule and to register, visit 
www.hss.cmu.edu/lawschoolfair
For more information, please  
Dr. Joseph Devine  
at jd0x@andrew.cmu.edu.
Need a code reader? 
Download at  
www.i-nigma.mobi
touro
vermont
yeshiva
The members of Upsilon of Pennsylvania, the Carnegie Mellon 
University chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, are pleased to 
recognize and congratulate the following seniors who have been 
elected to Society membership, and who will be initiated into 
the Society on September 26, 2013, 4:30pm, Danforth Lounge, 
University Center:
Victor Bass 
(Biological Sciences)
Zachary Branson 
(Economics and Statistics)
Abigail Burton
(Chemistry)
Evan Cavallo 
(Mathematical Sciences)
Colleen Eagan 
(English)
Shannon Gallagher
(Mathematical Sciences)
Emily Gibson 
(History & Drama)
Joseph Grinstead 
(Mathematical Sciences)
Marcy Held 
(Global Studies)
Zane Hintzman
(Computer Science)
Alexandra Johnson 
(Computer Science)
Rachel Kuhn 
(Global Studies)
Angela Lo 
(Biological Sciences & Music)
Anna Nelson 
(Creative Writing & Art)
Daniel Nesbit 
(International Relations & Politics)
Rachel Sewell 
(Biological Sciences & Psychology)
The ceremonys Keynote Speaker is David Shribman, PulitzerPrize winning journalist and Executive Editor of the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette. Reception immediately follows in the same location. 
All members of the campus community are invited to attend.
tion vision.
According to the press release, Tarr has been co-directing the Center for the Neural 
Basis of Cognition (CNBC) 
since 2009. The CNBC is a 
joint center between CMU 
and the University of Pittsburgh devoted to investigating neural mechanisms and 
their impact on human cognitive abilities, according to 
the press release. His tenure 
at the center has been very 
successful  the press release 
notes the CNBC has been responsible for the hiring of 
?ve faculty members and has 
raised upwards of $5 million 
in funding.
Tarr also co-founded a 
startup company, Neon, in 
2012. According to the companys website, Neon creates 
accurate video thumbnails 
by using models of how the 
brain perceives images and 
can predict which ones people 
will prefer.
Michael Tarr is an outstanding scientist who has 
spent the past four years advancing Carnegie Mellons 
impact on the brain and behavioral sciences, John Lehoczky, dean of the Dietrich 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences, said in the 
press release.
Carnegie Mellons psychology department boasts 30 
core faculty members, several 
research centers, and a childhood education center with a 
preschool and kindergarten.
Tarr feels very fortunate 
to be leading an already successful department, rather 
than a department in need of 
reform. 
Tarr noted in an interview 
that the psychology department at Carnegie Mellon is 
one of the top-rated departments in the world, and he 
hopes to maintain that quality and create new partnerships within Carnegie Mellon 
and its colleges, and particularly with the School of Computer Science.
While maintaining the 
quality, research-intensive 
program that the program 
boasts, Tarr hopes to move 
the department into new areas when appropriate. Its a 
wonderful department. Im 
really pleased, and [I am] in a 
lucky position, he said.
PSYCH, from A1
Tarr hopes to maintain psych departments top-rated status
Book gives job hunting advice
BOOK, from A1
Courtesy of Liz Madsen, Joshua Siva, and Melanie Feldman
From left to right: Joshua Siva, Liz Madsen, and Melanie Feldman. 
PARK(ing) Day transforms parking spaces into parks
Courtesy of Emily Abell
Post-it notes marked the boundaries of the Oakland parking space taken over by volunteers on PARK(ing) 
Day on Friday. 
PARKING, from A1
Courtesy of Emily Abell
Volunteers sit in a converted parking space on PARK(ing) Day. 

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 23, 2013
Tepper alumni start online advertising corporation
Courtesy of Shoutside Media
From left to right: Michah Rosa, CEO of Shoutside Media, and managers Cheryl Spencer and Brent Vaccaro.
ADVICE, from A1
what it takes to increase your 
social reach.
Understand that the Facebook news feed is the most 
read news feed in the world 
Facebook will give you a lot 
of image, but will it give you 
$60,000 worth of image? 
Rosa asked. 
Thats where Shoutside 
Media comes in. For most 
companies, the development 
and maintenance of a media 
presence doesnt warrant a 
full-time position. Shoutside 
Media has a staff that will 
work with companies to create an effective online presence. 
For Rosa, career events 
such as the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) 
and the Business Opportunities Conference (BOC) last 
week failed to incite the traditional Carnegie Mellon nervousness and anticipation. 
By that time in his education, he already had a job: 
running SurhRosa.
From his position as a 
self-employed student, and 
his newfound perspective as 
a CEO, Rosa offered advice 
speci?c to job fairs and the recruitment process.
You are at Carnegie Mellon, and thats why we are 
here. We know you are ?ne. 
What we really need to know 
is Do you make me feel good 
having you around? 
Rosa recommended that 
students attending the TOC, 
BOC, or other job fairs break 
out of the traditional interview structure and get 
recruiters to talk about themselves.
Perhaps the most striking 
advice Rosa offered was directed toward presentation. 
Most students attending job 
fairs like the TOC and BOC 
arent yet employed, and its 
important to keep that in 
mind when applying for a position. 
Be professional, but dont 
be a professional. Youre not, 
he said. 
You are at 
Carnegie Mellon, 
and thats why we 
are here. We know 
you are ?ne. What 
we really need 
to know is Do 
you make me feel 
good having you 
around? 
Micah Rosa
Tepper alumnus 
2011
Thursday
Cilidh Weekend Kick-Off BBQ
11 a.m.  2 p.m.
The Student Cilidh Committee 
hosts a BBQ to kick off a weekend of 
Cilidh events. 
Alumni Faculty & Staff Reception 
(invitation only)
12:302 p.m.
The Office of Alumni Relations and 
Annual Giving hosts a lunch for 
alumni faculty and staff to honor 
their continued commitment and 
service to the university community.
Required: registration.
Katanyagi Prize for Research Excellence Award Presentation & Lecture
3:305 p.m.
The School of Computer Science 
recognizes and honors Stanford professor Pat Hanrahan at this event.
Pittsburgh Chapter Happy Hour
57 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Alumni Chapter invites all alumni to enjoy an evening 
of food, beverages, and lively conversation at The Porch in Schenley Plaza. RSVP required online at 
www.alumni.cmu.edu/porch.
Diwali/Eid
6:3010:30 p.m.
Sponsored by Mayur SASA
Join Mayur SASA in an event that 
combines Diwali, the celebration of 
good defeating evil, and Eid al-Fitr, 
the celebration of enhanced piety. 
Required: registration and payment.
Friday
Golden & Platinum Continental 
Breakfast (invitation only)
9:3010:30 a.m.
All Golden (1963) and Platinum 
(1962 and earlier) alumni and their 
families may enjoy a casual graband-go breakfast.
Required: registration.
112 Years of CMU History & Tradition  in 60 Minutes or Less!
10:3011:30 a.m.
Join Holly Hippensteel, Assistant 
Dean of Student Affairs, in recalling 
the universitys history and folklore.
TOBOM Demonstrations
Noon1 p.m.
The School of Computer Science 
introduces a new fall race this year, 
TOBOM, where members of the 
community can  create down MObile roBOTs that race on the slalomcourse in front of Wean Hall.
Saturday
Presidents Address
9:3010:30 a.m.
Subra Suresh, as part of his listening 
tour, makes his first Presidents Address.
ROTC Pre-Ga.m.e at the Tent
10:30 a.m.12:30 p.m.
Meet ROTC, military alumni, and 
current cadets at this pre-game event 
near the stadium. 
Required: registration.
Cilidh Zero Waste Tailgate Party 
& KidZone Activity Center
11 a.m.1 p.m.
Grab lunch before the game at this 
event co-sponsored by the Steinbrenner Institute for Environmental 
Education and Research and Green 
Practices.
Carnegie Clans 10th Annual Chili 
Cook-Off
Noon1:30 p.m.
Enjoy  catered chili, free mugs, and 
corn bread while you vote for the 
campus organization with the most 
delicious homemade chili. 
Getting Your College Student Back 
 Handling Your (Almost) Adult 
Child When He/She Comes Home 
For Vacation Or Summer Break
12 p.m.
Join Deborah Gilboa (A 92) in a discussion about young adults and their 
transition to full adulthood.
Evolution of Buggy Technology
23 p.m.
At this event, Tom Wood (E74) walks 
though Sweepstakes history and includes behind-the-scenes insight into 
Buggy technology.
Required: registration.
Kiltie Band Alumni-Student PostGame Event
34 p.m.
After the football game, current and  
former Kilties are invited for food, 
fun, and socialization. 
Required: registration.
Legacy Family & Student Reception
34 p.m.
Legacy members are alumna, student 
with a family member that graduated from Carnegie Mellon, or current faculty/staff/student. All Legacy 
students and alumni are invited to 
celebrate this special affiliation with 
other legacies.
Class of 1963 Reunion Celebration
57 p.m.
Join fellow classmates in  celebrating your 50th reunion, a landmark 
reunion. Platinum alumni are also 
invited to join and welcome you into 
the Platinum community.
Required: registration.
Scottish Beer Tasting
79 p.m.
Join alumni in tasting and learning 
about several different Scottish beers 
at this event. Music from a piper will 
be included.
Required: registration and $20.
Sunday
CEE Alumni Awards Luncheon
Noon2 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon invites civil & environmental engineering alumni and 
a guest to celebrate the 2013 CEE 
Alumni Award recipients in an afternoon of excellent company, conversation, and food.
Required: registration.
Cilidh Weekend Events
Sep. 26-29 (Thursday-Sunday)
For a full calender of Cilidh Weekend events, go to 
http://www.cmu.edu/ceilidh/schedule.html.
Calendar by Jennifer Coloma

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Recent alumni help students catch a steal with DormDeal
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
Have a textbook you want 
to sell? Furniture you want 
to get rid of? Tickets to a 
game or concert you cant 
make anymore? One option 
is DormDeal, a new web app 
developed by a team of Carnegie Mellon alumni that allows members of the campus 
community to buy or sell used 
goods in a safe environment.
The app was developed by 
Jonathan Bender and Nolan 
Carroll, both information systems students who graduated 
this past year; Collin Buchan, 
a ?fth-year electrical and computer engineering masters 
student; and Patrick Hogan, a 
recent mechanical engineering graduate. Bender currently holds the position of CEO, 
Carroll is the web developer, 
Buchan is the Android developer, and Hogan is in charge 
of design.
The group members began 
as best friends who decided to 
enter the 2013 TartanHacks 
competition during their senior year. Nolan actually had 
the domain [dormdeal.com] 
since freshman year ... so we 
thought it would be a great 
idea to actually make it at the 
competition, Bender said.
The team ended up winning the eBay Best of eCommerce Hack award, which 
inspired the group to take the 
project further. I dont think 
any of us expected for it to take 
off as much as it did from TartanHacks, Hogan said.
Despite having only been 
developed this past January, DormDeal already has 
over 1,200 users. Currently, 
the main universities that are 
parts of the system are Carnegie Mellon, the University of 
Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania 
State University. The app aims 
to connect buyers and sellers 
in the same location.
We operate under the assumption that people have 
physical access to their university and can make deals on 
their campus, Buchan said. 
Bender added, The way 
we view it is that if were right 
down the street from Pitt, why 
not walk 200 yards and get a 
textbook for $20 cheaper?
A user must have a university-associated email address 
in order to create an account.  
This really helps ensure that 
layer of trust that the people 
youre dealing with are members of your community, and 
since theyre not anonymous, 
they will be held accountable 
for their actions, Buchan explained. He also mentioned 
that in other used-goods markets, such as Craigslist, users 
will create more than one account to barter with sellers unfairly. On DormDeal, however, 
you can only sign up once.
Another feature of the app 
is that it is very image oriented. People like to know what 
theyre getting. Personally, I 
would never buy something 
on Craigslist unless I can see 
a picture of it, Carroll said. 
Though it is not required for 
sellers to use pictures, there 
is a ?lter option to search only 
for products that come with 
pictures. Search results can 
also be narrowed to speci?c 
product categories, such as 
books, furniture, electronics, 
appliances, apparel, and tickets.
Ticket sales have been very 
popular  particularly at 
colleges such as Penn State, 
which boasts a prominent 
sports culture. One of the 
things were looking at, especially for ticket sales ... is being 
able to have it show the bids of 
other people so you can have a 
bidding war, Bender said. 
While ticket sales may be 
popular at certain universities, 
DormDeal may discover other 
niches at different schools as it 
expands. Its tailored to each 
different college, to see what 
their community is like, and 
the things theyre looking to 
buy and sell, Hogan said.
Some future directions 
that the team is taking include 
deals for housing, promotions 
in Pittsburgh, a ride-share program, and developing an iOS 
app. DormDeals new housing section will allow students 
to contact members living in 
off-campus housing who are 
graduating or looking for new 
roommates, as well as allow 
people to be pulled into open 
slots in on-campus housing. 
Were looking to have that 
done in the next couple of 
months, Bender said, so that 
it will be ready before room 
draw happens. 
The section on promotions in Pittsburgh will allow 
restaurants and other local 
companies to offer student 
deals through DormDeal. Ride 
share will endeavor to connect 
students who want to carpool 
home for breaks or for other 
reasons.
We really want this to be 
a service to students, Bender 
said. We want to make it 
something that is eventually 
the ?rst thing you think of 
when you think of selling your 
textbook because its easy and 
free to you.
Courtesy of Jonathan Bender
Carnegie Mellon alumni (from left to right) Jonathan Bender, Collin Buchan, Nolan Carrol, and Patrick Hogan created a startup that provides a safe 
environment for students to buy and sell products.
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Junior Staffwriter
Whether studying for an 
upcoming exam, following a 
daily routine, or merely recognizing day-to-day objects, everyone is dependent on their 
memory to complete even the 
simplest tasks. Despite the fact 
that memory is such an integral part of our lives, scientists 
are only just beginning to understand the complex science 
behind our ability to remember.
The concept of memory 
can be generally broken up 
into three main categories: encoding, storage, and retrieval. 
Encoding deals with converting perceptions into chemical 
signals; this begins with our 
senses. According to howstuffworks.com, as our senses take 
in a variety of stimuli, the hippocampus and the frontal cortex  two parts of the brain 
 decide if the information 
is important enough to be remembered. If the information 
is deemed worthy, it is converted into chemical signals 
that travel through nerve cells 
in our brains.
The main action of encoding, however, occurs at synapses, which are the spaces 
in between nerve cells. When 
chemical signals reach a synapse, they ?re across the gap 
to the next nerve cell, which 
releases neurotransmitters 
that create a link between the 
two cells.
As information is processed 
in this manner, a network of 
links between nerve cells is 
created throughout the brain. 
This process records all sensory perceptions including (but 
not limited to) visual, tactile, 
and emotional stimuli. The 
network constantly changes 
as more stimuli are encoded 
and is strengthened through 
repetition.
The second major aspect 
of memory, storage, is divided 
into sensory storage, shortterm storage, and long-term 
storage. Sensory storage is 
used only for the initial perception of stimuli. Once the 
brain has decided that the 
information is worthy of being remembered, it is sent to 
either short-term or long-term 
storage. According to USA Today, short-term memory storage can hold approximately 
seven items for about 30 seconds. Anything past that is 
sent into long-term storage, 
where practically unlimited 
amounts of information can 
be stored inde?nitely.
New stimuli are often 
linked with previous signals 
that are kept in long-term 
storage, which explains why 
it is often easier for people to 
remember things that are related to prior knowledge. A 
simple example of this is the 
use of mnemonic devices. By 
relating new information to 
something that the brain is 
already familiar with  such 
as the alphabet  the brain 
is forced to use neuron paths 
that have already been solidi?ed by repetition. It then becomes much easier to remember new information.
The ?nal category is 
memory retrieval. In order 
to remember something, the 
encoded information is unconsciously retrieved from the 
network of neurons present in 
the brain.
Dif?culty in remembering 
something can be caused by a 
defect in any one of the three 
areas of memory. The stimuli 
might have never been properly encoded. The brain could 
have failed to store the information due to distractions 
or a glitch in short-term or 
long-term memory  or there 
could be a problem with the 
retrieval of the information. 
This last problem generally 
occurs when there is a discrepancy between the prompt the 
brain is using to remember the 
signal and the original signal 
that was encoded, according 
to howstuffworks.com. 
Through encoding, storage, and retrieval, humans are 
able to recognize everything 
from the time of day to complex mathematics. This allows 
people to perceive, understand, and respond to the variety of stimuli we encounter 
every day.
HOW THINGS WORKConnections between neurons may record memories
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 23, 2013
Chemistry professor leads effort to ?ght water pollutants
ROHAN VARMA
Junior Staffwriter
The world we are delivering to the next generation is 
utterly unsustainable.
These are the words of professor Terry Collins, senior 
member of the Institute for 
Green Science and honorary 
professor of green chemistry. 
In recent years, because of 
the exploitation of carbonemitting fossil fuels, the 
growing industrialization in 
developing countries, and the 
damaging treatment of the 
environment, green chemistry has emerged as a necessity 
for ensuring that our planet 
remains viable.
Green chemistry is the 
study and research of new 
methods and processes that 
limit the use of hazardous substances emitted into the environment. This problem of an 
unsustainable future has been 
at the center of Collinss career 
and at the center of the ?eld of 
green chemistry.
Collins has been one of 
the primary leaders of green 
chemistry. My career started 
in 1980, and green chemistry 
didnt come along till 1991. 
But the 11 years before green 
chemistry, I was doing green 
chemistry, he said. In fact, 
as a result of Collinss heavy 
investment in green chemistry even before its onset, 
Carnegie Mellon was the ?rst 
institution to offer classes on 
the ?eld.
While there are myriad 
pathways in the ?eld of green 
chemistry, Collins has his 
sights on designing a way to 
reduce water pollution. Currently, different molecules 
?ow into the water supply 
from medications, waste, puri?ers, and other hosts. Many 
of these molecules have detrimental effects on not only 
humans that drink the water, 
but also on the aquatic life that 
lives in the water. Collinss lab 
focuses on endocrine disruptors, which are some the most 
harmful toxins currently being excreted into the water 
supply.
The endocrine system 
controls the development of 
bodily functions, whether it 
be growth, tissue functions, 
reproductive functions, or metabolism. Endocrine disruptors are the most devastating 
toxins in water because if any 
stage of development is distrubed, the organism could 
be permanently changed or 
mutated.
The endocrine disruption 
problem is the reason that the 
chemical enterprise is currently unsustainable, Collins 
warned. If I can take some 
pressure off through the water, then that is wonderfully 
rewarding, personally, he 
said.
With this goal in mind, Collins has spent the last 15-20 
years perfecting a method of 
removing these harmful toxins 
from the water. His invention, 
and the hallmark of his career, 
is the tetra-amido macrocyclic 
ligand (TAML) catalyst. Collins and his lab engineered 
this catalyst to oxidize and 
destroy harmful toxins in the 
water. A unique property of 
this molecule is that very small 
amounts of it are able to target 
and destroy numerous kinds 
of harmful wastes.
Its essentially like putting ?re with water; minuscule amounts of TAML oxidize 
toxins down and take them 
all out. Thats what you want; 
you want a generic blow torch 
that goes in and gets rid of all 
the toxins in the water, Collins said.
According to Collins, the 
oxidation properties of the 
man-made catalyst are actually working better than natural 
catalysts. They are out-performing the enzymes. We are 
able to put them in water with 
tiny amounts and they work, 
he said.
Collins is working in conjunction with other institutions to start a company that 
will commercialize and utilize 
his catalyst to clean water in 
both Europe and the United 
States. However, one of the 
major concerns and points 
of further investigation, is 
whether or not the TAML catalysts themselves are harmful 
to humans. Over the last decade Collins has researched 
and documented the effects 
of his catalyst on organisms 
at unprecedented levels. The 
main goal of the research has 
been to prove that the TAML 
catalyst does not act as an endocrine disruptor.
We are mapping the entire 
territory on how to design to 
not create an endocrine disruptor. Weve done more than 
anyone has ever done. People 
just dont do these studies, he 
said. The lab has been working 
mainly with ?sh species to test 
the effects of TAML. While ?sh 
are a similar model to humans, 
the lab will do further research 
to con?rm that there are no 
side effects on mammals.
Abigail Burton is a senior 
in the chemistry departments 
joint BS/MS program and a 
part of Collinss lab. I ?nd 
Professor Collinss research 
interesting because its important and currently relevant 
to the real world. It is interesting academically because 
we do things that no one has 
ever done before, but it is also 
interesting because the problems our research solve are 
relevant to all life on our planet, she said.
The research being done on 
TAML catalysts has enabled us 
to envision new ways of maintaining the ecosystems we occupy. With further successful 
testing, one day we might see 
the fruits of Collinss career 
enriching the lives of millions 
around the world.
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon Department of Chemistry
Professor of chemistry Terry Collins is leading research that uses a catalyst to rid the water supply of endocrine 
disruptors.
CMU startup expedites the process of converting apps
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
Due to compatibility differences between smartphone 
platforms, apps for mobile 
devices can often only be developed for a single operating 
system. Researchers at Carnegie Mellon are working on 
ways to expedite the process 
of converting apps between 
operating systems through 
their startup and computer 
platform: Apportable.
Collin Jackson, an assistant research professor at 
Carnegie Mellon CyLab and 
the Information Networking 
Institute (INI) on the Silicon 
Valley campus (CMU-SV), 
developed the idea with cofounder Ian Fischer and Chinmay Garde, a graduate student at CMU-SV. The startup, 
now located in downtown San 
Francisco, has grown in popularity and translates apps 
from iOS to Android platforms. We solved a problem 
and helped developers so that 
they dont have to individually 
deal with the hassle of always 
translating the coding for one 
device into another language, 
Jackson said.
Jackson came up with the 
idea for the startup while 
looking up apps on an iPhone 
and realizing that they were 
not available for Android, 
the most commonly used 
mobile platform worldwide. 
He noticed that it could take 
developers a long time to release the Android version of 
some iOS apps due to technical barriers that hinder 
cross platform development. 
These technical barriers are 
a slow and expensive process 
to overcome because they require the developer to rewrite 
the app in a new language and 
maintain a second code base 
for the Android version. Apportable helps make the process of translating between 
platforms faster, cheaper, and 
easier, while maintaining the 
quality and functionality of 
the original app.
In the early days of Apportable, Jackson and his 
team members developed a 
version of Objective-C, the 
language used to build iOS 
apps, that runs on Android 
phones. The team then developed prototype applications 
in iOS and ported them to 
Android using this technique. 
The prototypes were presented to Google Ventures, the 
venture capital investment 
arm of Google Inc., in order 
to fundraise for the project. 
The funding was then used 
to recruit technical teams to 
develop Apportable, a commercial product that grew to 
have 10s  of millions of users.
Currently, many game developers use Apportable and 
subsequently help promote 
Objective-C as the language 
for building apps across all 
platforms. Future directions 
for the company involve 
implementing the user interface framework used by certain photo sharing and music 
apps, like Bjorks Biophilia 
album for Android, which is 
the ?rst music app to be released for Android that was 
?rst written in Objective-C. 
The team is also helping nongame developers launch apps 
for Android through Apportable by building Android development tanks into their 
platform, allowing it to receive automatic support from 
a wide range of devices.
Making Apportable compatible with various devices 
was challenging. Major challenges involved paying attention to a large number of little 
details to get Apportable to 
run perfectly, Jackson said. 
In one particular example, 
Apple developed an app that 
provided a ton of functionality, but the team had to provide equivalent functionality 
for Android hardware that 
was not designed to run iOS 
code, which required a lot of 
time, he added.
Although much of their 
work focuses on converting 
apps for Android, Apportable 
is aimed at letting customers 
translate apps between different programming languages. 
The teams favorite part of the 
startup? According to Jackson, its simply helping people 
overcome a time-consuming 
hindrance.
Courtesy of Terry Collins
The structure of TAML, a catalyst that can oxidize and destroy harmful toxins in the water.
3-D printed objects may help blind use Internet
Blind children in Japan 
can now feel the results of 
their latest web search. Hands 
On Search, sponsored by Yahoo! Japan, is a project aimed 
at making Internet search results tactile, rather than just 
visual and auditory.
The Special Needs Education School for the Visually 
Impaired, af?liated with the 
University of Tsukuba, Tokyo, has a custom-made 3-D 
printer which looks like a big 
puffy cloud. When kids ask 
the machine for things, it processes the request using voice 
recognition, searches for the 
relevant 3-D data and prints 
out the object.
Source: CNET news
Breakthrough in Alzheimers diagnosis
Researchers have developed a way to illuminate a key 
protein associated with Alzheimers. Until very recently, 
all research on Alzheimers 
was based on detecting 
amyloid, a sticky substance 
that develops in the brain 
of people suffering from Alzheimers. However, another 
protein called tau, also associated with Alzheimers, piles 
up in the brain in the form of 
harmful tangles.
Researchers at  National 
Institute of Radiological Sciences in Japan, have discovered that a class of molecules 
can latch onto tau tangles and 
help illuminate them during 
PET scans. 
Source: Science News
iPhone 5S raises privacy and security concerns
One of the highlights of 
Apples newly released iPhone 
5S is a ?ngerprint scanner to 
unlock the phone. This does 
away with the need for a passcode, making the phone much 
more secure against theft and 
misuse.
However, concerns have 
been raised about the collection of sensitive personal data 
like ?ngerprints. In addition 
to a possible privacy concern, 
its a potential security hazard 
as well; If ones ?ngerprints 
fall into the wrong hands, 
hackers can impersonate him 
or her for the rest of their life, 
as they are inalterable. 
Source: The Washington Post
Vitamin E ?ghts static electricity
It has been found that Vitamin E can get rid of static 
electricity. Static electricity, 
known for the tiny jolts that 
one gets while walking barefoot on a carpet, can cause 
shocks that spark ?res and explosions in electronics. 
When surfaces rub against 
each other, uncharged molecules called free radicals 
are generated in addition to 
the static electric charges. 
Researchers at Northwestern 
University have shown that 
these radicals help stabilize 
the charges that develop. Vitamin E is a radical scavenger, 
which absorbs these radicals. 
Thus, when the objects are 
dipped in a Vitamin E solution, the charges are destabilized and static electricity 
cannot be generated.
Source: Science News 
Yeast strain can endlessly rejuvenate
Scientists at the Max 
Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics 
have found that a certain type 
of yeast can stay young forever by rejuvenating every time 
it reproduces.
In general, microbes reproduce by splitting into two 
halves and dividing the cell 
material between the two 
halves. In most cases, one of 
the halves gets all the new 
material and the other gets 
all the old and damaged material. 
In one yeast type, however, 
when the cell splits, an equal 
amount of old and new material goes into both the resultant halves. As both cells get 
only half the damaged material, the resultant cells are both 
appear younger than before. 
Source: SciTech News
Comets may be source of life 
New ?ndings support the 
hypothesis that life on Earth 
arose from the wreckage of 
comet collisions. Experiments 
have found that when a steel 
projectile is collided with a 
comet-like concoction, amino 
acids are produced. Amino acids are the building blocks for 
proteins, which are the key 
molecules for life. It is possible energy from the impact 
of the comets with the earth 
may have catalyzed the transformation of simple carbon 
compounds into amino acids.
This is an alternative to the 
traditional hypothesis that life 
arose on earth from combination of chemicals that existed 
in the earths atmosphere and 
deep-sea vents.
Source: Science News
Compiled By
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

www.cmu.edu/suresh-inauguration
This is the ?rst symposium in a year-long series celebrating the inauguration of 
Carnegie Mellon Universitys ninth president, Dr. Subra Suresh.
#CMUsuresh
Understanding the brain is a grand 
challenge of science.  
What role can CMU and Pittsburgh 
play in the federal governments new 
BRAIN Initiative?
Saturday, September 28  | 10:45 a.m.  12:15 p.m. | McConomy Auditorium  | University Center
OPENING REMARKS 
President Subra Suresh
MODERATOR 
Michael Tarr, CMU Director, Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition
PANELISTS
Philip Rubin 
White House Of?ce of Science and Technology Policy
Emery Brown 
Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Marlene Behrmann 
Tom Mitchell
Nathan Urban 
Carnegie Mellon University Faculty

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Sneha Kannoth, 
Karyn Michela, Satvika Neti, Mackenzie 
Nicholson, Gates Palissery, Syed Rahman, 
Taylor Rawley, Kevin Reichek, James Wu
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banerjee, Yong 
Gun Choe, Gordon Estes, Sara-Remi Fields, 
Anne-Sophie Kim, Mina Kim, Linging Sun, 
Tangrui Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 23, 2013
Improve alcohol education, not crackdown
The Pennsylvania Liquor Control 
Board is spending $70,000 to cut 
down on underage drinking in Oakland, Squirrel Hills Rep. Dan Frankel told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 
The money was split into two grants, 
with $40,000 going to the Oakland 
Planning and Development Corporation, and the remaining $30,000 going to Carnegie Mellons University 
Police.
The allocation for the Oakland 
Planning and Development Corporation will be used to hire off-duty police of?cers to crack down on alcoholrelated crimes and code violations. 
They will gather data on drinking to 
target outreach programs with landlords and students. The executive 
director of the corporation, Wanda 
Wilson, said that she will crack down 
on pay-to-enter house parties, which 
promote dangerous drinking. University Police will use its share to 
provide additional training for of?-
cers, and pay for increased underage 
drinking patrols.
Underage drinking is a concern 
at Carnegie Mellon, as it is at every 
institution of higher learning, but a 
focus on catching students seems to 
miss the point. While breaking up 
large house parties to reduce highrisk drinking is worthwhile, spending more money on catching students is unlikely to deter them from 
drinking in signi?cant ways.
The money might be better spent 
educating students about alcohol in 
more effective ways, and giving them 
better risk assessment tools for the 
still-likely event that they drink. Online alcohol education is the punchline of many jokes on campus, and 
for good reason. Every year students 
?nd ways to skip the inconceivably 
outdated videos. The quizzes are no 
real guarantee of understanding and 
students have little motivation to do 
the program  even less to invest in 
how they do it. 
Providing more engaged learning may deter drinking more than 
crackdowns would. More hands-on 
learning, possibly through a single 
weekend class, could give students 
more motivation to digest the material presented to them traditionally 
through online programs.
Carnegie Mellons University Police and the Oakland Planning and 
Development Corporation should 
not waste money working to reduce 
drinking signi?cantly; students will 
continue to drink, and may resort to 
more risky drinking in less suitable 
locations than houses, in response 
to crackdowns. Risky drinking could 
be made riskier in unsafe locations. 
Instead, the grants should go toward helping students drink more 
responsibly.
Net?ixs piracy battle bene?ts subscribers
Recently, Net?ix revealed that it 
adds movies and television shows 
to its catalog based on which media 
people most often stream or download from piracy websites, according 
to BBC News.
This move by Net?ix obviously 
bene?ts the company and producers 
 they gain revenue and customers 
that they would otherwise lose to piracy sites  but it also bene?ts viewers, particularly college students. 
Piracy can be more effectively combatted if major streaming services 
work toward the same goal.
While there is debate over whether piracy helps or hurts viewership, 
Net?ix ensures that viewers already 
paying for their subscription service 
do not resort to illegal (and often unreliable) websites with pop-up advertisements or computer virus threats, 
such as The Pirate Bay. On these 
sites, users have to sort through links 
for what they deem to be the most 
reliable third-party hosts. In contrast 
to these sites, Net?ix provides users with a reliable hub of television 
shows and movies for a relatively low 
monthly price  $7.99.
For college students, this budgetfriendly subscription is a viable and 
welcome alternative to piracy sites. 
The subscription costs less than $100 
each year. However, a paid subscription often cannot compete with the 
free option, despite any risks associated with it.
Regardless, Net?ix rewards customers by providing them with wanted content. Some users may still use 
piracy sites to ?nd content that Net?ix does not carry, but the service is 
aiming to reduce visits to these sites 
by anticipating and researching 
what their users want. Other video 
streaming services, like Hulu and 
Amazon Instant Video, could bene?t their customers by doing similar 
research. By combining forces to ensure that popular television shows 
and movies are available to the largest audience possible, these services 
should decrease visits to piracy sites.
According to The Guardian, Kevin 
Spacey  star of the Net?ix original 
series House of Cards  said during 
the Edinburgh Television Festival, 
The audience wants control. They 
want freedom. If they want to binge 
... then we should let them binge.
The iTunes store has thrived off 
the concept of giving users easy access to content when they want it. 
Apple stocks its library full with 
movies and music that are accessible 
on various platforms. By researching 
which television shows and movies 
are most often pirated, streaming 
services like Net?ix give users similar control to binge on the content 
they want.
Carnegie Mellon held its annual 
Technical Opportunities Conference 
(TOC) and Business Opportunities 
Conference (BOC) last week, where 
students dressed professionally and 
perfected their rsums in search of 
employment or summer internships 
from about 300 recruiters.
Theres no denying that the TOC 
and BOC are invaluable resources for 
Carnegie Mellon students, and ones 
that the student body may often take 
for granted  but the timing of these 
events limits job and internship opportunities for some students due to 
con?icting academic schedules.
The TOC and BOC are held from 
10:30 a.m.5 p.m. on their scheduled days  Tuesday and Wednesday for the TOC and Thursday for 
the BOC. For students who have days 
?lled with classes, ?nding time to 
search for an internship or employment opportunity at these conferences is problematic. Students may 
have to rush to the University Center 
during a short break between their 
classes, sometimes foregoing their 
lunch to do so. They might even miss 
class to attend these events.
Academic schedules should not 
limit the opportunities students have 
to obtain jobs or internships during 
the TOC and BOC.
Professors should strive to become more understanding of potential con?icts with the TOC and BOC, 
and permit students to miss class for 
the conferences, or at the very least 
not schedule exams on the same day 
as one of these events. 
Alternatively, it may be possible 
to change the times during which 
the TOC and BOC are held. Recruiters often stay overnight for the job 
fairs, so it is worth exploring the 
option of holding these events after 
standard class hours  perhaps from 
48 p.m. With times in the evening, a 
far greater number of students may 
have the opportunity to attend these 
important events without rushing 
through them.
The TOC and BOC are great opportunities that bene?t Carnegie 
Mellon students. However, to curb 
people from missing classes or recruitment events, professors must 
either adapt their courses to allow 
students to miss classes on these 
days, or the university should work 
to move the TOC and BOC to more 
accessible hours.
BOC, TOC must be accessible to students
Indian chief minister may be damaging for country
CHLOE THOMPSON
The Bharatiya Janata Party announced last week that Narendra 
Modi would be its candidate for 
prime minister of India in the upcoming 2014 elections, according 
to The New York Times. Modi is the 
current chief minister of Gujarat, a 
western state of India, and one of 
the most controversial politicians 
in India today. Modi has supervised 
the improvement of Gujarats economy in the last decade, and wants 
to encourage Hindus to vote as a religious bloc, rather than be divided 
by caste. Caste division in India is 
analogous to racism in the United 
States, so subverting these divides 
would be a great step forward for 
India. However, Modi is also a Hindu radical who has been accused of 
encouraging the anti-Muslim riots 
that swept Gujarat in 2002. Because 
Muslims constitute roughly 13 percent of Indias population, having a 
prime minister with such virulent 
anti-Muslim sentiments will seriously damage the unity of India.
Back in 2002, anti-Muslim riots 
broke out barely a year into Modis 
ministership of Gujarat, in response 
to the deaths of 60 Hindus in a train 
?re, according to BBC News. Over 
a thousand people  800 Muslims and 250 Hindus  died in the 
chaos. Citizens have gone so far as 
to accuse Modi not only of negligence, but of purposefully allowing 
the riots to continue. He was never 
charged, but several of his associates 
were convicted of inciting a riot.
These events took place, for the 
most part, over a decade ago, but 
many Indian Muslims still hate Modi 
with passion. This hatred intensi?ed as more riots broke out in Uttar 
Pradesh last week after legislators 
from Modis party released a falsi?ed video of Hindus being lynched 
by a Muslim mob, according to The 
New York Times. During the riots, 
44 people died, and 42,000 people 
were displaced from their homes.
Despite the darker aspects of 
Modis political history, he has had 
some undeniable successes. One of 
his most visible victories is the economic strength of Gujarat today. Gujarat, which accounts for 5 percent 
of Indias population, produces 22 
percent of its exports and 16 percent 
of its industrial products, according 
to The New York Times. According to 
the BBC, output from farms in Gujarat is nearly seven times the average in all of India, and its growth 
rate has remained in double digits 
for the past decade. While economic prosperity is a complex and 
multi-layered phenomenon, Gujarats fortune looks good for Modis 
campaign, especially when the Indian economy is looking shaky, according to The New York Times. Furthermore, Modis constituency resides in 
Maninagar, which is one of the most 
well-run and orderly neighborhoods 
in India. It has round-the-clock energy, functional streets, and a working sewage system. Maninagar is a 
wonderful place to live  except for 
the few Muslim communities within 
the town. These successes do not 
outweigh Modis history, but they do 
give him the appearance of a leader 
who can ?x Indias ills.
Modis economic policy is not the 
only enticing aspect of his potential 
leadership. The minister wants to 
eliminate political barriers between 
castes as much as possible, creating 
a single Hindu voting bloc. One of 
the ways he plans on doing this is 
by focusing on young Hindu voters. 
In fact, he recently took to Twitter 
to encourage voters between ages 
18 and 24 to register to vote, according to The Economic Times. For 
young people, Modi is a dynamic, 
impassioned leader who has the potential to both improve the economy 
and minimize caste divisions. Modi 
is even more appealing when compared to aging leaders of other parties, or to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who is 80 years old.
For a young Indian person, Modis message is incredibly appealing. 
He offers economic and political stability on a platter, and both of these 
things would make life easier in India. However, Modi is also dangerous because his message of unity is 
subtly tied to the discrimination of 
Muslim Indians. India, like America, 
is drifting toward being more politically polarized every day. While 
Hindus represent 80 percent of the 
Indian electorate, they have never 
bonded to form a political bloc because of caste divisions. If Modi can 
mobilize Hindus to act as a political unit, which he has the potential 
to do  especially with the lure of 
dynamic change and improved economic policy  they could very easily control Indian politics. 
This cooperation would not be a 
bad thing. In fact, having India move 
past caste divisions would be a great 
cultural and political boon for the 
nation. If this cooperation is linked 
to anti-Muslim sentiment, however, 
it would eventually cause division 
among all Indians.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Greg Hanneman/Senior Staff

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The ?nal episode of Breaking Bad airs next week, so we asked
What would you use as a cover for your drug empire?
Compiled by Justin McGown and Kate Groschner
Miranda Jacoby
Art
First-year
A sugary breakfast cereal 
corporation.
A.D. Tony Rollett
Materials Science & Engineering
Professor
Scary as the thought of an illegal 
business empire is, I suppose I 
might run a fleet of street food 
stands to provide frequent casual 
contact with people.
Jason Kelso
ChemE
Senior
A male stripping business, like 
Chippendales.
Blair Graham
Materials Science & Engineering
Junior
Materials Science & Engineering 
professor.
Alina Rath
ECE, Materials Science & 
Engineering
First-year
A philanthropic organization 
promoting healthcare amongst 
the poor.
September 23, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Cyrus deserves a break, 
Thicke deserves a stake
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Junior Staffwriter
To appreciate the disturbing gender divide in popular media, one 
only has to take a hard look at two of 
the most talked-about artists in recent months. Robin Thicke, the man 
behind Blurred Lines, and Miley 
Cyrus, who made news last week 
with her hit Wrecking Ball, almost 
beg for a comparison.
At ?rst glance, the two artists 
seem radically different. Thicke is 
36 years old and married, with almost two decades of experience in 
the music industry. Cyrus is only 20, 
and a former Disney Channel star.
It is highly disconcerting, however, that there is such a large disparity 
between the widespread condemnation of Cyrus and the comparatively 
minimal criticism of Robin Thicke 
for their work as artists, as well 
as their performance at the 2013 
VMAs. It takes two to tango, but 
the phrase does not seem to apply 
to their performances. Cyrus was 
practically burned at the stake, but 
Thickes only regret after grinding 
on a girl 16 years his junior may have 
been that she stole the spotlight.
Lately it appears Cyrus has been 
doing everything in her power to 
scrub away her persistent image 
as Americas sweetheart. Needless to say, Cryuss decision to take 
a ride on construction equipment 
in Wrecking Ball and to twerk it 
out in her single We Cant Stop 
has been controversial. As a result, 
the wholesome sweetness of Hannah Montana has been erased.
But perhaps that is the point. 
What right do people have to dictate 
the career choices of a performer in 
the midst of rede?ning herself? Horri?ed fans of a younger Cyrus would 
have her stay stagnant, crying foul at 
the shearing of her trademark wavy 
locks, and at her provocative wardrobe. They throw around words like 
slut, trashy, and pathetic.
Such treatment is not only unrealistic, but grossly unfair. Many people fail to recognize that the celebrities they fall in love with are liable 
(and justi?ed) to change. In pushing 
boundaries, Cyrus is creating an unforgettable buzz, gathering a new 
fanbase, and establishing herself 
as a performer with staying power. 
Frankly, it does not matter if a million people ?nd Cyruss clothing 
distasteful and her actions crude. 
She has the right as an artist to 
make choices about how she wants 
to be perceived, as well as a right as 
a woman to do with her body what 
she will.
While Cyrus has been criticized 
for her performance and rapidly 
changing image, Thicke has enjoyed 
resounding popularity for the blatantly misogynistic Blurred Lines. 
The song hides behind a smooth 
beat and annoying catchiness, but 
the closer one looks, the less it 
sounds like sexy dance music and 
more like an endorsement for sexual 
assault. 
Lines like I know you want it, 
Im gonna take a good girl, and Do 
it like it hurt, resemble classic justi?cation for sexual assault. Thickes 
song promotes the destructive idea 
that consent itself is a blurred line.
Nowhere is the contrast between 
Thicke and Cyrus more apparent 
than in the music videos for their 
latest respective hits. The uncensored music video for Blurred 
Lines features Thicke fully dressed 
and in control as a trio of topless 
models clad only in nude G-strings 
strut around for his viewing pleasure. Cyrus similarly strips down 
in her Wrecking Ball video, but 
while Thicke and the models have 
taken relatively little abuse for their 
display, Cyrus has been mercilessly 
vili?ed for daring to show her body.
This huge difference in public reaction is telling. Our media-saturated generation has become numb to 
Thickes brand of misogyny. Objecti?cation of women is nothing new to 
us. Cyruss exhibition in her Wrecking Ball video is an instance not of 
a woman being sexualized by the 
media, but choosing to place herself 
in a position of sexual power. Maybe 
this choice is unusual enough that 
the public rejected it offhand.
Whatever the underlying cause 
behind Thickes praise and Cyruss 
criticism is, it might be useful to take 
away this: Knee-jerk reactions often deserve a second look. The next 
catchy song could glorify something 
terrible, and the next wild pop star 
could just be growing up.
Criticism of millennials holds true
XIYU WANG
Older generations seem to always 
complain about younger ones, and 
the present older generation bears 
no exception. 
It is not uncommon to ?nd editorials or articles criticizing the millennial generation  those born from 
the late 1980s to around 2000. A 
2008 op-ed in The Wall Street Journal, which refers to millennials as 
trophy kids, reports that many 
older managers view the millennial generation as more entitled and 
high-maintenance than previous 
generations. An article published last 
May in Time magazine focuses on the 
narcissism of the me me me generation. There is an overall notion that 
millennials are more self-absorbed 
and entitled than those who came 
before them.
This criticism, while harsh, is almost certainly true. 
Although it varies from case to 
case, it seems like the number of 
self-absorbed people has never been 
greater. Everybody wants others to 
read their daily Facebook statuses, 
Tumblr posts, and Twitter feeds. 
Some people need to take photos 
of themselves and their dog twice 
a day. Instant grati?cation, unwarranted self-importance, and ?rstworld problems are abound.
This criticism is not just some 
anecdote-based gut feeling either. 
According to a study published in 
the American Psychological Association that analyzed values of people 
ranging from 1840 years old, the 
millennials view money, fame, and 
image as more important than selfacceptance, af?liation, and community; they also have less concern for 
others and lower civic engagement 
than previous generations.
Given the way millennials were 
raised  myself included  it is  
unsurprising that we turned out the 
way we did. For over a decade, we 
were told to expect more, want more, 
and feel better about ourselves.
Millennials were born in a time 
when it was good to be an American. 
The nation was strong and ?ourishing. We watched the Soviet Union 
fracture and fall while the United 
States became the strongest, freest, 
and most developed nation in the 
world. The American dream was 
more than a dream; it was taken 
for granted that, by the age of 30, a 
hardworking individual could have 
a stable job, a suburban home, and 
two or three kids.
This feel-good era was rife with 
feel-good values. Much fuss has 
been made about the every child 
gets a trophy mentality in school 
activities, but it is really only part of 
the larger self-esteem movement. A 
plethora of Disney movies told millennials to never settle for anything 
less than our hearts desires. Books 
and television shows told us to celebrate individuality. Schools were 
plastered with motivational posters 
that told us to dream big, disregard 
the naysayers, and never conform.
Each generations values are directly in?uenced by the society they 
grew up in  and with the advent 
of smartphones and social media to 
serve as enablers of self-promotion, 
it may very well be that the values of 
this generation are here to stay. However, with the nation still mired in 
war, recession, and political con?ict, 
it is impossible to tell exactly what 
the next generation will be like. But 
the values of the millennial generation may constitute a new normal, 
and in time, people may have to reconsider what it means to be selfabsorbed.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
MACKENZIE NICHOLSON
Junior Staffwriter
During the 2014 Miss America 
Pageant on Sept. 15, Nina Davuluri of Fayetteville, N.Y., became the 
?rst woman of Indian descent to be 
crowned Miss America. Following 
the announcement, riled pageant 
viewers unleashed a toxic deluge of 
racist and xenophobic tweets targeted at Davuluris win.
These tweets, some of which were 
complied on the popular website 
BuzzFeed, ranged from objections 
such as I swear Im not racist but 
this is America to extremely offensive personal attacks calling Davuluri Miss 7-11, Miss Terrorist, and 
Miss Al-Qaeda. One person laughably claimed, we all know Obama 
bought that pageant!
As goes without saying, such 
comments are indefensibly bigoted 
and hopelessly illogical. President 
Obama is about as likely to have 
done a deal with Miss America pageant owner Donald Trump as Muslim 
extremists are likely to enter bikiniclad catwalk competitions. In addition to these peoples obvious errors 
is their utter misunderstanding of 
American values. America is a nation 
of immigrants. 
Isnt the idea of a great American melting pot among the ?rst of 
the values that patriots and pageant 
contestants should represent? Comprised of many races and unique ethnic groups, the American population 
ought to prize diversity as much as 
any other national value  and certainly shouldnt be protesting it.
Yet despite the outrageous nature 
of these tweets, and despite reactions to them ranging from righteous 
anger to mockery, one reaction has 
been almost nonexistent: surprise. 
Almost nobody, it seems, is in any 
way surprised by this gross display 
of racism; the incident has been described as a tired theme by CNN.
This lack of shock is among the 
most troubling aspects of this story. 
Racism of this kind is apparently 
commonplace enough that it is unsurprising even when it is written 
publicly with no concealment of 
identity. 
According to a World Values Survey published this year, the population of America is among the least 
racist in the world, and yet Americans are quite used to racism. The 
national struggle against bigotry is 
clearly too far from won.
Certainly, enormous progress 
has been made in American cultures overall standing with diversity. 
From the civil rights movement of 
the 1960s to modern-day immigration reform, Americans as a whole 
increasingly accept diversity and 
condemn prejudice. This positive 
trend will hopefully and probably 
continue. However, the nation has a 
long way to go until racist vitriol of 
the sort exhibited following the Miss 
America pageant is rare enough to be 
anomalous  preferably shocking 
and wholly impermissible.
Miss America backlash is surprising
Xiyu Wang/Junior Artist
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Although it varies 
from case to case, 
it seems like the 
number of selfabsorbed people 
has never been 
greater.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 23, 2013
Shadyside
Carnegie Mellon
376
MarketDistrict.com
Shadyside
5550 Centre Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
412.681.1500@hR@ +h=&D @D= D
?h@DHR ,=hD00?
@0ah'H+, h=hD:'hD0hD?
any restaurant purchase
Limit one coupon per customer. Not valid with any other offer. Not subject to doubling. Copies and facsimiles not accepted. Coupon is worth no cash value. Excludes purchases of prescriptions, gasoline, convenience store items, gift cards, tobacco, cigarettes, alcohol and other items prohibited by law.
$5 OFF
Expires 10/8/13
Shadyside Market District Bus Routes: Made-to-order subs piled high with the best meats and 
cheeses on housemade bread  mmmmm!
 Hearth-baked, fresh-made pizzas with our own 
dough & sauce
 Amazing fresh salads, HUGE Hot & Cold bars & 
fresh-made sushi 
 Made-to-order smoothies, energy drinks, freshly 
squeezed juices and more!
Back on campus? Use this homecoming coupon 
for a Chef-made meal, with choices including:
 Seating for up to 100 (the patio is great) & FREE WI-FI!
 More registers to make paying quick & easy 
 500+ beers, draft beer, wine by the glass & 
take-out growlers!*
 *Must be 21; proper ID is required.
Reconnect with CMU friends in our newly remodeled 
Restaurant Caf with:
 71A and 71C PAT buses
 CMU Shuttle B (weekdays)  or AB (weekends) 
Free with CMU ID
SUVRATH PENMETCHA
Junior Staffwriter
After a string of 10 victories, the mens soccer team 
found the net more often this 
week starting with a 30 victory over Washington & Jefferson College earlier on Wednesday. The Tartans ended the 
week pummeling the visiting 
Bethany College Bisons 50 on 
a rainy Saturday afternoon.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
?rst got on the scoreboard in 
the 19th minute when ?rstyear Tristan Lockwood tapped 
in a well-placed ball from senior defender Ben Bryant for 
his ?rst goal of the season. The 
play started off with a free kick 
by Bryant, who lobbed a pass 
near the right crossbar where 
it rebounded off a defender, 
meeting Lockwood who was 
right there to put in the goal.
Lockwood was very active 
in the ?rst half and had many 
quality breakaways on the 
sideline. One of them led to 
a goal by senior forward Max 
Tassano who had a brilliant 
low shot to the corner of the 
net in the 22nd minute.
The Tartans frenetic attack, 
consisting of several through 
balls and great ball control, 
led to another goal in a matter 
of ?ve minutes. This time, senior Mike Ferracos cross-pass 
into the penalty box found a 
sliding Lockwood who scored 
his second goal to put the Tartans up 30.
Near the end of a fabulous 
?rst half for the Tartans, Tassano found the net again, this 
time with a header off senior 
Jerome Reanos cross that 
sailed to the back post.
It was de?nitely a con?-
dence booster for me to get 
two, Tassano said. I have 
been struggling recently with 
scoring.
As it turned out, it was 
also a con?dence boost for 
the whole team, as the Tartans emptied their bench in 
the second half. Senior Kevin 
Pierce had an easy goal into 
an empty net off a pass from 
Reano in the 60th minute. The 
Tartans continued their attack 
and had quality shots on goal.
We made sure to be positive from the bench and make 
sure that we were cheering 
them on, said senior Chris 
Wysocki, who was selected as 
the Division III Mens Disney 
Soccer/NSCAA Player of the 
Week last Tuesday.
As impressive as the offense was in scoring ?ve goals, 
the defense held its ground 
and allowed the Bisons to get 
only ?ve shots on goal. Our 
defense has been stellar this 
year, Tassano said. Its been 
huge for us because we know 
they are probably not going to 
score, and if we get one or two, 
we got the game.
Overall, it was a perfect 
game for the Tartans both offensively and defensively as 
they improved their record 
to 71. The Tartans will compete next against Grove City 
this Saturday at 4:30 p.m. at 
home.
Tartans dont look back as they score four in ?rst half
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Junior Colin Shaffer controlling the ball against Bethany College with ?rst-year Tristan Lockwood in the background. Despite the rainy conditions, the Tartans dominated in their 50 victory. 
Lockwood led the Tartans with two goals and one assist.

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
ISI THCS SL HIPD
OMY LAPC TOE ARTD
ALR HETE .GN HIEG
LAE TRTA ATE THIN
SEA ONCL YAI URGT
 .CE NY
Think youve got skills? Prove it.
Visit NSA on campus 
Career Catalyst | Oct. 9
EOC Career Fair 
and Interviews | Oct. 10 - Oct. 11
MIT_5.15x6.61_Prove_It.indd   19/12/13   3:54 PM
On behalf of the faculty and staff of 
the Tepper School of Business, we 
congratulate the undergraduates and 
alumni listed here for earning Spring 
2013 Dean's List honors. 
Dean's Office, Tepper School 
Deans List, Spring 2013
Undergraduate Business Administration
Class of 2013 
Austin Buit, Tricia Chiou, Grace Chung, John Crawshaw, Olubunmi Dairo, 
Sunghee Gill, Michael Hahn, Thomas Hofman, Arthur Hong, Alice Jun, 
Megan Kwan, Emily Lee, Wan Joon Lee, Jung Yub Lee, Vineeta Malhotra, 
Caroline McCool, Marc McGeary, Jake Nardone, Jeffrey Papai, Laethitia 
Patadji, Vincent Pisztora, Kenton Plourde, Spencer Rice,Jun Mo Seo, 
Tyler Vogt, Jooho Yu, Yijia Zhou
Class of 2014 
Aman Agarwal, Hae Won Baek, Joseph Belechak, Liting Chen, Weimeng 
Chen, Yu Chen, James Christensen, Carolina Flores, Megan Garvey, James 
Gui, Ronny Ho, Michael Jeffcoats, April Jianto, Ryan Jok, Linda Ju, George 
Lang, Katharine Langstaff, Jovan Laurent, Jung Hwan Lee, Sang Hoon Lee, 
Carmen Lin, Christopher Madden, Craig Matturro, Benjamin Mawhinney, 
Neel Nadkarni, Matthew Remaley, Regena Reyes, Anthony Rizza, Zachary 
Roman, Tejasvi Samala, Ayaka Sato, Stephen Serrao, Jeffrey Setian, Jae Won 
Shin, Mia Skinner, Alexander Smith, Andres Velez, Matthew Wilson, Eric 
Yun-Chung Yi, Aleksandr Zeltser
Class of 2015 
Karthik Annaamalai, Derek Cobb, Melissa Dileo, Kevin Donohue, Laviniu 
Filimon, Justin Fischler, Gregory Foster, Nicholas Gardiner, Matthew Gode, 
William Gong, Ari Halevy, Kyle Henson, Christina Ho, Hantian Huang, 
Erin Jung, William Kenney, Tristan Kowalski, Gerard Kramer, Chang Hwee 
Lee, Thomas Li, Dixon Liang, Tianyi Lu, Anna Millerman, Daniel Mock, 
Sanika Natu, Douglas O'connell, Grace Pan, Susanna Park, Brandon Peck, 
Anton Pleshakov, Bryn Raschke, Ajay Rawani, Katelyn, Sittler, Megan 
Winsby, Amery Xu, Alice Ye, Yinan Yue
Class of 2016 
Benjamin Alderoty, Ajit Bopalkar, Shannon Burke, Yiqun Cao, Jeffrey Chan, 
Zeyu Chen, Robert Citrone, Anqi Cong, Omar El-Sadany, Matthew Elchik, 
Rachel Fowler, Jordan Friedlander, Ryan Hung, Qiao Kang, Sophia Kim, 
Audrey Celine Lao, Dong Hyun Lee,  Xun Liu, Willa Lu, Daniel Manners, 
Hamza Nadeem, Joon Young Park, Lucy Pei, Yan Shen, Brian Sinko, 
Jacquelyn Tencza, Hue Tran, Danning Wang, Michelle Wong, Jerry Wu, 
Christine Yang, Julia Yang, Anthony Yeung, Zhao Zhang
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Cleveland Browns 
have been the epitome of futility since they were refounded 
in 1999. The original Browns 
franchise moved to Baltimore 
in 1995, was renamed the Ravens, and has since won two 
Super Bowls, further proving 
that Cleveland is where sports 
teams go to die.
After another disappointing season and a transfer of 
ownership to businessman 
Jim Haslett, the Browns replaced their entire management, ?ring head coach 
Pat Shurmur and general 
manager Tom Heckert. Rod 
Chudzinski was hired to replace Shurmur and Michael 
Lombardi to replace Heckert.
The new management began the slow and arduous process of bringing the Browns 
out of the gutter and back to 
the level of their AFC North 
brethren: the Baltimore Ravens, the Pittsburgh Steelers, 
and the Cincinnati Bengals.
Normally, the standard 
ineptitude of the Browns 
isnt headline news with the 
merry-go-round of head 
coaches, starting quarterbacks, and exceptional teams. 
This time is different, however, as the Browns have made 
one of the most shocking 
trades in NFL history: trading running back Trent Richardson, the third overall pick 
in the 2012 NFL Draft, to the 
Indianapolis Colts for a 2014 
?rst-round pick.
The trade came as such a 
surprise that no one is quite 
sure who made the better 
deal, and more importantly, 
what in the world the new 
Browns management was 
thinking.
Richardson has been a polarizing player since his days 
at the University of Alabama. 
He ?rst made an impact as the 
backup to the 2009 Heisman 
Trophy winner and current 
New Orleans Saint Mark Ingram. He then lead Alabama 
to a national championship in 
2011 as the feature back, being named an All-American 
and winning the Doak Walker 
award for best college running back.
In the 2012 draft, the top 
two players were clearly quarterbacks Andrew Luck and 
Robert Grif?n III. The Colts 
had the ?rst pick and drafted 
Luck, while the Washington 
Redskins traded up from the 
sixth pick to snatch Grif?n. 
The Browns were also interested in trading with the St. 
Louis Rams for the second 
overall pick but were outmatched by the Redskins offer 
of three ?rst-round picks.
This left the Browns in an 
interesting spot, holding the 
fourth overall pick while the 
Minnesota Vikings sat in front 
of them with the third pick. 
The Browns decided to pass 
on quarterback Ryan Tannehill who fell to the Miami 
Dolphins at No. 8, and instead made the curious move 
to trade up one spot with the 
Vikings. The Browns then 
?lled their quarterback need 
by taking Brandon Weeden, 
the oldest-ever player taken 
in the ?rst round, with their 
28th pick.
Which brings us to the 
present day. Normally, moves 
such as bailing on the third 
overall pick after only 18 
games are reserved for coaches and general managers who 
know their days are numbered. But in this case, it appears that Clevelands front 
of?ce is taking the exact opposite approach, looking to 
the long term.
To return to relevancy, 
the Browns need a franchise 
quarterback. The Weeden experiment has failed; its failure 
is further pronounced when 
the other quarterbacks of 
Weedens draft class  Luck, 
Grif?n, Tannehill, and thirdround pick Russell Wilson  
have established themselves 
as franchise cornerstones.
This upcoming draft is 
likely to be full of NFL-caliber quarterbacks with Teddy 
Bridgewater and Heisman 
Trophy-winner Johnny Manziel leading the way. The 
trade appears to be setting the 
stage for the Browns to pick 
any incoming quarterback 
and make the necessary trade 
to get him with multiple ?rstround picks in their arsenal.
For the Colts, this is an 
interesting move. Rarely do 
teams get the chance to bring 
in a potential Pro Bowl talent 
for only a ?rst-round pick. 
The Colts gave up a chance 
to draft a great player for one 
they believe is already proven. 
But history will tell whether 
or not Richardson becomes a 
Hall of Famer, or another in 
the long line of running back 
busts who cant last more 
than a few years, given the 
wear and tear they receive on 
a weekly basis.
If Richardson can help 
protect Luck from blitzing 
linebackers making the Colts 
offensive line look like Swiss 
cheese, and if the Colts can 
rebound from a tough 11 
start to make the playoffs, the 
move will be considered genius. In addition, if the Colts 
legitimate passing threat 
forces teams to stop crowding 
the line of scrimmage against 
Richardson  thus making 
his pedestrian yards-per-carry rise to the level of a great 
player  the Browns will 
have added another item to 
their long list of poor moves.
The two teams are clearly 
heading in opposite directions, with the Browns looking toward the future and the 
Colts making it clear that they 
aim to win now. Lets see how 
both teams fare in a year or 
two after all of the pieces have 
fallen into place.
SPORTS COMMENTARYWhat are the Browns doing?Womens soccer continues dominance in 20 victory
WILLIAM PARK
Assistant Forum Editor
The womens soccer team 
continued its streak of dominance last Friday, beating the 
La Roche College Redhawks 
at home 20 in convincing 
fashion.
The win  their fourth in 
a row  improves their record to 511.
The Tartans started scoring in the 10th minute when 
senior defender Rachel Contopoulos curved a corner kick 
into the top right corner of 
the net for her ?rst goal of the 
season.
The Tartans cruised for the 
rest of the game, controlling 
possession in La Roche territory while pressuring the 
Redhawks into turnovers in 
the rare instances where they 
had the ball
The Redhawks only shot 
of the game came in the 18th 
minute and harmlessly soared 
over the net. The Tartans ended the game with 24 shots. 
Sophomore Louisa Pendergast scored her second goal 
of the season in the 57th minute.
We switched our positioning  instead of having two 
center-mid[?elders], we had 
two attacking mid[?elders], 
she said.
Sophomore Amanda Broderick advanced the ball to 
outside the penalty box and 
found Pendergast on her 
left, who struck the ball with 
her left foot past the goalies 
stretched arm.
No one was defending 
me. It was an easy shot, she 
said.
For the Redhawks, the 
game was one long, self-tormenting cycle. With the Tartans keeping possession in the 
La Roche half, the Redhawks 
took many goal kicks. Unfortunately for them, their goal 
kicks bounced back to Carnegie Mellon players, which 
allowed the Tartans to restart 
their attack in great position.
They dropped off a lot 
of defensive players, Pendergast said, which allowed 
them to win the opposing goal 
kicks. And they were short.
Over their four-game winning streak, the Tartans have 
outshot their opponents 60
14.
Despite their recent success, Pendergast says there is 
still room for improvement. 
I think we have a lot to work 
on, she said. The progression has been going well, but 
we really need to start putting 
teams away.
Once we touch up our 
attacking third, I think well 
have a solid season, she said.
On Friday, the Tartans had 
an opportunity to increase 
their lead in the 30th minute. 
Junior Lucy Havens  taking 
a penalty kick after sophomore Carson Quiros was 
taken down in the box  shot 
right into the diving goalies 
hand.
In the ?rst half, ?rst-year 
forward Megan Bartoshuk 
caused havoc on the left ?ank, 
creating chances for her teammates by advancing the ball to 
the goal line and crossing the 
ball into the penalty box. 
In the eighth minute, she 
created a chance of her own 
as she beat her defender and 
drove a shot that clanged off 
the crossbar.
The Tartans will play 
Wednesday at home at 7 p.m. 
against Juniata College.
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Soccer
Univ.WLTConf.
Brandeis71000
CMU71000
NYU61000
Rochester51100
CWRU30300
Wash. U.31100
Emory53000
Chicago32100
Football
Univ.WLConf.
Chicago3000
CMU1200
CWRU1200
Wash. U.1200
Volleyball
Univ.WLConf.
Emory14100
NYU11100
CMU11300
Wash. U.10300
Chicago9500
CWRU8900
Brandeis6900
Rochester41300
Womens Soccer
Univ.WLLConf
Wash. U.61000
Brandeis51000
CMU51100
Chicago52000
Emory52100
NYU33100
Rochester33100
CWRU34000
Upcoming Schedule
Mens Soccer
Sept. 28
Grove City at Carnegie  
Mellon, 4:30 p.m.
Oct. 5
University of Chicago at 
Carnegie Mellon, 11 a.m.
Womens Soccer
Sept. 25
Juniata College at Carnegie 
Mellon, 7 p.m.
Oct. 5
University of Chicago at 
Carnegie Mellon, 1:30 p.m.
Football
Sept. 28
Geneva College at Carnegie Mellon, 1 p.m.
Oct. 5
Carnegie Mellon at St. Vincent College, 1 p.m.
Volleyball
Sept. 24
Frostburgh State at Carnegie Mellon, 7 p.m.
Sept. 27
Carnegie Mellon vs. Farleigh Dickinson, 10:30 a.m. at 
York College
Mens Tennis
Sept. 2830
ITA Regional Tournament, 
University of Mary-Washington
Oct. 5
Carnegie Mellon at Oberlin 
College, time TBA
Womens Tennis
Oct. 5
Carnegie Mellon at Oberlin 
College, time TBA

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 23, 2013
Jason Chen/Junior Photographer
Despite going 22 over the weekend, the Tartans are still a respectable 113 for the season. On Friday, they 
beat Geneva College 31 but lost to Otterbein University in the evening. The Tartans began Saturday with a 
loss to John Carrol University 32 and ended the weekend with a 30 win over Farmingdale State College.
FEATURE PHOTOSWomens volleyball goes 22 in DoubleTree Tournament
Jason Chen/Junior Photographer
First-year Molly Higgins going up for a serve against Otterbein University on Friday night in Wiegand Gym. 
Higgins ?nished the weekend with a total of 45 digs. The Tartans will play against Frostburg State University 
at home this Tuesday. 
Jason Chen/Junior Photographer
Junior Ali Celentano was named UAA Athlete of the Week for Sept. 17.
ALINE NARODITSKY
Junior Staffwriter
After suffering a seasonending injury last year, junior 
William Duncan is excited to 
be back on the court as part of 
the mens tennis team.
It was miserable not being 
able to play, Duncan said.
During his ?rst year, he 
started experiencing extreme 
pain in his shoulder, especially 
when serving. After a visit to 
the doctor, he discovered that 
he had a SLAP tear. Deciding 
to get the necessary surgery 
was dif?cult, but Duncan persevered through a year without tennis.
I am still trying to get back 
to where I was, Duncan said. 
Though he doesnt claim to 
be back to 100 percent, the 
results suggest he is getting 
close.
After ?ve matches, Duncan 
remains undefeated. Duncan 
was also named the University Athletic Association Mens 
Tennis Athlete of the Week 
Sept. 17.
The team  which has a 
short fall season  will compete next in the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association (ITA) Regional Tournament in Fredericksburg, Va. this weekend. 
The winner of the tournament 
will play in the ITA National 
Small College Championships 
in Florida.
Although the team has 
fallen short of making the national tournament in the past, 
Duncan believes that this year 
the goal is within reach.
We have high expectations. We expect to make the 
NCAA, Duncan said. If they 
do, Duncan will be a big reason why.
[His] desire and heart has 
always been unquestionable; 
[they] are something any family would love to have on their 
team, said his doubles partner, junior Christian HeaneySecord.
Duncan is a computational and applied mathematics 
major looking to double major in computational biology 
and hoping to go to graduate 
school for bioinformatics.
Having to manage ones 
time while playing a varsity 
sport can be dif?cult, but Duncan is able to manage his time 
well. I dont feel like it gets 
in the way [of school] at all, 
Duncan said. Its like anyone 
else  you have busy weeks 
and weeks that arent as busy.
Having started playing tennis at the age of 6, Duncan has 
grown through tennis both as 
a player and as a person.
When asked what his favorite part about tennis was, Duncan excitedly mentioned the 
competition. When you win, 
its like youre better than the 
other player and youre just 
proving that, he said with a 
light in his eyes.
Winning, however, isnt everything to Duncan; using his 
entire potential is much more 
important. After every match, 
Duncan wants to feel he 
played his best even if he loses.
While tennis is largely an 
individual sport, Duncan also 
embraces playing as part of a 
team.
Everyone cares, everyone 
wants to win, [and] everyone 
is working really hard to get 
better. And its good to be in 
that kind of environment; you 
can push each other, he said.
His teammates are also 
glad Duncan is returning to 
the courts.
Willy Dunks is quite possibly the hardest working and 
most dedicated person I have 
ever met, Heaney-Secord 
said.
As a team member, Duncan 
also plays an important leadership role.
One of his newest teammates, ?rst-year Kenny Zheng, 
has found Duncan to be someone he can look up to. [His] 
work ethic and determination 
make him a great role model for the rest of the team, 
Zheng said.
After he ?nishes college, 
Duncan hopes to continue 
playing tennis competitively, 
though he recognizes that it 
may not be as accessible. Until 
then, Duncan will try to make 
the most of his time at Carnegie Mellon.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Junior William Duncan returns to the courts after missing last springs season. He is undefeated in ?ve matches 
this year and will next play in the ITA Regional Tournament this weekend. 
ATHLETE PROFILEWilly Dunks showing he is still the king of the courts

---------------------------------------------------

Alien She 
The new Miller Gallery exhibit delves 
into the world of feminist punk   B8
09.23.13 Volume 108, Issue 5

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Turtles are embroiled in a civil war and other 
crazy things this week in comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents a series of films whose titles 
all begin with the letter M.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jason Chen
8
3456
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Vocellis 
and last-minute requests.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Angel Olsen
The singer-songwriter will perform at the Andy 
Warhol Museum tomorrow.
3
Lecture
No Church In The Wild touches on queer 
anarchy, pop culture, and political subversion.
4
The Idiot Box
This latest production at the Purnell Center 
brings laughs as well as introspection.
5
Dancing
Dancing with the Stars returns with new faces 
in the traditional format.
6
S.H.I.E.L.D.
The Avengers television spinoff promises to 
stand on its own.
7
Alien She
The new exhibit at the Miller Gallery explores 
feminist punk movement Riot Grrrl.
8
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
kakuro puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Find out what the universe has in store for you 
this week.
14
Calendar
All you need to know to stay entertained this 
week both on campus and off.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.23.133
Olsen plays at the Warhol
Promising singer-songwriter to perform in Pittsburgh
Angel Olsen is the kind of singer-songwriter 
that belongs to an older time  a time before 
computers, when all music was made using purely 
natural sounds. Raw talent and emotion shimmers 
throughout her work, both in terms of her beautiful 
singing as well as her lyrics. Olsen will be performing 
tomorrow at the Andy Warhol Museum on the North 
Shore.
Chicago native Olsen first made her name known in 
2011 with the release of Strange Cacti. Since then, 
she has been garnering acclaim everywhere she 
goes. Half Way Home, released last September, was 
met with critical praise from the likes of Pitchfork.
com and Allmusic.com. Half Way Home is built upon 
the sound of its predecessor, adding more countrylike arrangements and at times a fuller instrumental 
sound.
Olsens music is heavily folk and country inspired, 
which makes every song sound a little familiar even 
if youve never heard it before. She generally uses 
just her voice with soft acoustic or electric guitar 
accompaniment, which is no problem because 
her voice is truly the crux of her talent. Within a 
single song she can go from a soft whisper to a full, 
yodeling sound that gives many tracks a large range.
Her recent single Sweet Dreams features a full 
band, forcing Olsen to prove just exactly who the 
star of the show is. Her lyrics, while not of the same 
caliber as her musical skills, offer insights into 
topics such as death, falling in and out of love, and 
loneliness. Acrobat touches on the longing to be 
connected to another in every single way including 
the finality of death.
Miranda shows her taking on the role of a police 
officer reading a lying lover his or her rights before 
questioning. While not every song touches on such 
bleak subject matter, the overall mood of her music is 
despondent. Despite the sad words, however, on the 
whole the songs come off as more comforting than 
depressing, following the construct of her country 
and folk influences.
If previous performances accurately predict, Olsens 
upcoming show at the Andy Warhol Museum 
should be an intimate and engaging affair. Olsens 
is definitely a name to watch; she is one of those 
singer-songwriters who can truly bring it all to the 
table, and these days thats an increasingly rare 
commodity. Next time youre alone but dont feel like 
going out, I recommend looking to her for company.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Photo courtesy of PitchPerfect
Advice for awkward people
Hey Batman,
Would you be willing to write a last-minute Advice for 
Awkward People? New Patrick(s??) isnt getting back 
to us.
Sincerely,
Expecting Vulgarities And Nothing
Hey EVAN,
Yes.
What have you gotten yourself into,
Batman
____________________________________________________
Dear Batman,
How did you get the email batman@cmu.edu? Who do 
I have to bribe or give sexual favors / DineX / Vocellis 
to in order to get a rad email like you?
Sincerely,
Fake Reader, Especially Since Having Meaningful 
Advice Now
Dear FRESHMAN,
You dont have to bribe or give sexual favors/DineX/Vocellis 
to anyone to get a rad email, but I will take all of the 
Vocellis you can feed me, preferably quad pineapple thin 
crust. Its coupon code 700, but who cares about saving 
money when youre using DineX?
Just go to http://www.cmu.edu/computing/email/cmuname/
index.html. Its easier than C@CM. Unless you failed C@CM. 
Then this would be awkward.
Twerker@cmu.edu will look great on your rsum,
Batman
____________________________________________________
Dear Batman,
Why Batman?
Sincerely,
Do Even Enlightened People Quite Understand Even 
Sometimes Truth Is Only Non Sequitur
Dear DEEP QUESTIONS,
Because Im the hero Carnegie Mellon deserves, but not the 
one it needs right now.
Or, because when I chose my name in Chinese, it got me 
thinking  why cant I just change my name in English?
Sometimes its only madness that makes us what we 
are,
Batman
Need advice? Send queries to advice@thetartan.org.
Photo courtesy of PitchPerfect 
Singer-songwriter Angel Olsen will bring her 
gentle singing to the Andy Warhol Museum 
tomorrow.
Chicago native Angel Olsen will perform songs from 
her country-inspired album Half Way Home at the Andy 
Warhol Museum.

---------------------------------------------------

4events
pillbox 09.23.13
Kanye West, Lady Gaga, and Wes Anderson rarely make 
it into academia as subjects of study, and theyre even 
less frequently cited in this sense as renowned theorists 
like Judith Butler, Michel Foucault, and Emma Goldman. 
But a combination of pop culture and high-brow 
intellectualism was precisely what queer theorist Jack 
Halberstam brought to Carnegie Mellon in his Thursday 
lecture. The lecture  sponsored by the Center for Arts 
in Society, the English department, and Trans-Q TV  
was titled No Church in the Wild: Queer Anarchy & 
the Aesthetics of Chaos and focused on a discussion 
of queerness and anarchy through the lens of popular 
culture.
Halberstam is currently a professor of English and 
the director of the Center for Feminist Research at 
the University of Southern California. He is a gender 
and queer theorist, and his books cover topics like 
female masculinity, critiques of heteronormativity and 
capitalism, and popular culture. His most recent book, 
2012s Gaga Feminism: Sex, Gender, and the End of 
Normal, looks at the signi?cance of Lady Gagas fame  
what she symbolizes and why it matters  and results 
in a manifesto of sorts, calling for a new type of feminism 
that encourages creative chaos and ?uidity.
Halberstams talk on Thursday was focused on ideas 
of the Wild and queer anarchy: what they are, where 
we see them, and what they could mean for the future. 
Halberstam de?ned anarchy as a new form of opposition 
to the state and to institutionality in general and drew 
on political movements like Occupy to demonstrate that 
people are turning now to political projects of anarchy. 
The talk was extremely accessible even to those without 
a background in queer or political theory. Halberstam 
relied on popular culture reference points to guide his 
talk.
According to Halberstam, the current movement toward 
anarchy is all about disrupting the system and calling 
into question all of the social norms that we take for 
granted. The majority of the talk focused on where 
we see these ideas in popular culture, including Wes 
Andersons 2009 ?lm The Fantastic Mr. Fox and Jay-Z 
and Kanye Wests Watch the Throne. Art is a special 
place for experiments with anarchy, Halberstam said, 
noting that in art, theres less concern for practical 
consequences.
Fantastic Mr. Fox is a story about a fox that steals 
chickens from wealthy farmers every night until the 
farmers catch on and try to kill him. The fox and his 
family retaliate, outwitting the farmers and creating new 
homes underground. According to Halberstam, this ?lm 
can be interpreted as a radical tale of queer anarchist 
disruption. The foxes literally go underground to escape 
the farmers, but this could be viewed as them creating a 
subculture that rejects capitalism and traditional ideas of 
male heroism.
Halberstam also discussed Jay-Z and Kanye Wests 
hit song No Church in the Wild, from their hit album 
Watch the Throne. The song embodies many major 
themes of the album as a whole: fame, wealth, power, 
and the challenges of these successes. R&B singer Frank 
Ocean  who happens to be gay, a point Halberstam 
?nds worth noting  sings the refrain on the song: 
Human beings in a mob./Whats a mob to a king?/
Whats a king to a god?/Whats a god to a non-believer?/
Who dont believe in anything?
I hear anarchy in that lyric, Halberstam said, 
discussing the dif?culty of non-believing in a world 
where theology and existing power structures rule. 
Halberstam believes in the power of people to change 
society through solidarity with others who want the 
same things. By subverting the power of markets and 
the average persons status as a mindless consumer, 
Halberstam believes we can be heroes like the 
protagonists of The Fantastic Mr. Fox and create actual, 
productive change.
Halberstam closed his talk with a discussion of drag 
culture and a few queer artists who continue to push the 
limits of art and disruption, before opening the ?oor to 
questions.
Im not convinced that anarchy is even supposed to 
be laid out in terms of a political regime, Halberstam 
said, in response to an audience question about how 
anarchy can be understood through the most recent 
Batman movie. He emphasized his point that the 
anarchy he sees is more a means of disruption to our 
typical ways of thinking. Were not really debating new 
forms of subculture, but we are turning to anarchy to ask 
questions, he said.
Attendees were left with a lot to think about, from how 
we interpret popular culture to what questions we ask 
about political structures. Halberstam acknowledged 
that he, too, still has questions, and that thats okay: Im 
happy to sit with some of this material and not know.
Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Peter Lee | Junior Photographer
Professor Jack Halberstam from USC used many 
pop culture examples in his discussion of anarchy 
and the words many meanings.
Kanye West and anarchy discussed in lecture
No Church In The Wild used pop culture examples in political contexts

---------------------------------------------------

theater 
pillbox 09.23.135
The Idiot Box inspires laughter and thought
Carnegie Mellon production touches on the modern American life through our love of television
Once the canned laughter ?lling in all the funny (and notso-funny) jokes disappeared from the background noise 
of The Idiot Box, something clicked. The play, originally 
by playwright and screenwriter Michael Elynow, 
produced a revelation among audience members. Amid 
the pregnant pause of expectance, both the characters 
and the audience realized that the reality in which they 
had existed was simply a carefully crafted, false universe 
and that it was time to face the terrifying real world. 
That poignant moment of silence perfectly encapsulated 
the message behind The Idiot Box.
The production, which ran Monday through Saturday 
in the Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theatre of the Purnell 
Center, was co-directed by junior directing major Alex 
Tobey and Pittsburgh guest director Tami Dixon as a 
part of the Junior Performance Projects series. According 
to the show note, written by sophomore dramaturgy 
major Holly Dennis, The Idiot Box is meant to examine 
reality in a modern context  and what better way to do 
that than through Americas obsession with TV?
The show is centered on the cast of a sitcom called Pals, 
a close imitation of the iconic show Friends. During the 
play, the characters go from living a perfectly ordinary 
existence to one fraught with drama. All of the sudden, 
the corny jokes go away, and instead of dealing with an 
untrained puppy, they ?nd themselves grappling with 
issues such as messy breakups, divorce, coming out, 
and depression. Their lives become complicated and 
unplanned, and they must learn to cope with it.
The small cast of this play was composed of junior acting 
majors: Chloe (Colleen Pulawksi), a romance writer 
with writers block; Connor (Jeremy Hois), her doting 
husband; Billy (Luke LaMontagne), a sex-crazed, funny 
man; Fiona (Olivia Brown), a bubbly blonde; and Mark 
(Benjamin Edelman), the straight-edged owner of the 
apartment.
The cast blended perfectly, staying in character through 
both the lighthearted sitcom moments and the dramatic, 
heart-pounding ones. Their perfect chemistry made 
viewers feel as though they were watching a scripted, 
orchestrated television show, until the world fell apart 
and the characters became real.
The show was smart and witty, not to mention painfully 
poignant. In a moment toward the end, when the 
characters are realizing with horror what dealing with 
the real world has done to them, Mark sits down 
with Chloe, who is resisting the return to normalcy. In 
order to convince her to forget Omar (Mitchell Edwards) 
 the dashing stranger with whom she has fallen in love 
and has made plans to escape  Mark describes his 
harrowing experience as a medic during 9/11. Seeing 
how Elyanow wrote the play in response to the medias 
unresponsive attitude toward the crisis, it seemed 
appropriate for the show to close on such a somber note.
In essence, the cast and context of the show  eight 
friends, eight rooms, one big penthouse in the Big 
Apple  represented the carefully protected and 
forced innocence of Americans. When that naivety and 
blindness is shattered, the characters are tossed into 
crisis mode and are forced to come to terms with reality 
by discovering that their canned world is an illusion.
Through Dixons careful planning and design choices  
from having the cast pose as if in an opening scene to 
introducing a theme song for Pals that closely resembles 
that of Friends the message of the play is clearly 
conveyed, despite the risk of it getting lost in the many 
details of the plot. The entire cast and crew of the play 
should be applauded for creating a believable and 
meaningful play within a play scenario that resonated 
even after the lights went down.
Laura Scherb | Personnel Manager
Jason Chen | Junior Photographer
The cast of The Idiot Box is forced to face real-life issues. From left to right: Stephanie (Cathryn Dylan), Connor 
(Jeremy Hois), Fiona (Olivia Brown), Mark (Benjamin Edelman) and Chloe (Colleen Pulawski). Laying across the 
back is Billy (Luke LaMontagne).
Jason Chen | Junior Photographer
Junior acting major Luke LaMontagne plays the sexcrazed Billy.

---------------------------------------------------

6television
pillbox 09.23.13
Season 17 of Dancing with the Stars kicked off on 
Monday night promising a new format, new production 
 and of course, new stars. But this time, the shows 
classic formula showed through: Its the same dancing 
show time after time because stars success relies on 
dancing ability and likability in equal parts. As the 
seasons progress, there are a few cookie-cut roles that 
remain constant.
There is the athlete. This season, its Keyshawn Johnson, 
who moves in the stiff athletic way of a 64 former pro 
football player. His performance was marked by poor 
dancing and low scores.
There is the love interest  the partners that make us 
question if theyre more than just dance partners. This 
season its Pretty Little Liars actor Brant Daugherty 
and his partner, Peta Murgatroyd. The two quickly 
established that they were single and attractive, and 
there was a notable level of passion in their performance.
There are the forgotten stars  namely singer Christina 
Milian and actresses Elizabeth Berkley and Leah Remini. 
Milian came out strong with great choreography. Berkley 
seemed sweet and was a fair dancer, and Remini 
brought a lot of personality to the stage.
Actor Corbin Bleu danced dynamically. He is one of the 
few male dancers in the shows history to really draw 
attention rather than let the professional do all the work. 
He displays a will to push himself, which resulted in a 
performance earning one of the top scores of the night.
There are the heartwarming stories. Former reality TV 
star Jack Osbourne focused his introduction on his 
experience with multiple sclerosis. He came across as a 
genuine, soft-spoken guy and impressed everyone with 
his dancing. Another inspiring story came from actress 
Valerie Harper: She was given just months to live due 
to lung and brain cancer, but she is now beating the 
odds and thriving on the show. She stole the hearts of 
many viewers not just with her story but with her sweet 
mannerisms and grace. She ?oated across the ?oor in an 
elegant, simple routine.
There are the stars that draw in a large number of 
viewers: Snooki, the self-proclaimed hot mess, took 
the stage looking strikingly thin. She promises that 
her partying days are over and she is ready to be more 
mature, but this claim fell ?at as she shrieked ew and 
perv at her dance partner. Personality aside, she was a 
great dancer, receiving praise from the judges. 
Bill Nye is the kind of contestant that makes this show 
so special. Nye offered an admittedly poor performance, 
receiving the lowest scores of the night. But the crowd 
chanted his name as he ?nished and booed animatedly 
when the judges criticized him.
Bill Nye was a true class act. He brought a rose for 
his partner in a ?ask, taking time to teach us the 
difference between a ?ask and beaker. He spoke in lovely 
expressions, exclaiming, Even a blind squirrel ?nds a 
nut sometimes, discussed evolution, and danced in 
an endearing way. As judge Carrie Ann Inaba put it, he 
is the heart of the show. While he cannot keep up in 
dancing ability, his personality might just be enough to 
buy him a few more weeks.
Credit must be given where due, and Glee star 
Amber Riley stole the stage Monday night. Judge 
Bruno Tonioli described her as the tigress of season 
17. She performed with ferocity and precision and 
received praise and high scores. While she is not the 
most widely-known star, she quickly grabbed viewers 
attention with her charisma. She spoke about wanting 
to be a role model for girls her size, wanting them to see 
her throwing this weight around. She was the most 
captivating and inspiring performer of the night and will 
surely go far in the competition.
While Dancing with the Stars is deeply rooted in the 
traditional format, it has yet to feel tired. The fresh crop 
of stars brings new life to the show and a promise for a 
season of fantastic dancing and dynamic personalities.
Gwen Luvara | Junior Staffwriter
Dancing with the Stars sticks to old formula
Bill Nye and Glee star Amber Riley are among the celebrities to take the stage this season
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Glee star Amber Riley captivated audiences with her 
skillful performance and positive attitude on ABCs 
Dancing with the Stars.
Self-proclaimed hot mess Snooki tries to prove her 
partying past is behind her on ABCs Dancing with the 
Stars.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons

---------------------------------------------------

television 
pillbox 09.23.137
TV premiere season has begun, and on Tuesday night 
comes one of the seasons most anticipated pilots: ABCs 
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
To be clear, this isnt The Avengers. This is the team that 
?nds the superheroes, sorting through the weird to ?nd 
the spectacular.
The ensemble features Melinda May, a seasoned ?eld 
agent portrayed by Mulan voice actor Ming-Na Wen; 
newly recruited Grant Ward (Brett Dalton); hackerturned-team-member Skye (Chloe Bennet); and Leo 
Fitz and Jemma Simmons (Ian De Caestecker and 
Elizabeth Henstridge), a tag team of a tech genius and 
a biochemist. Together the team is the face of a new 
initiative formed by Agent Phil Coulson (Clark Gregg) 
following the events in The Avengers. Their job is 
to ?nd and keep tabs on emerging superheroes and 
otherworldly events, so that S.H.I.E.L.D.  the Strategic 
Homeland Intervention, Enforcement, and Logistics 
Division  can have a better handle on superhuman 
events and threats.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. is a continuation of The Avengers 
universe; currently, there are no plans to feature any of 
Marvels big-name superheroes, such as Iron Man or 
Thor, in any storylines. Executive producer Joss Whedon 
revealed at the Television Critics Association (TCA) 
Press Tour panel that the show is not intended to be 
an Easter egg farm for the Marvel universe. The show 
will be able to stand on its own, instead of constantly 
referring back to the past Marvel ?lms.
Whedon is no stranger to TV shows, having produced 
such classics as Buffy the Vampire Slayer and the shortlived Fire?y. Most recently, Whedon wrote and directed 
The Avengers and adapted William Shakespeares Much 
Ado About Nothing to the silver screen. Unfortunately 
for the show, he is also working on the sequel to The 
Avengers, which could reduce the amount of time he 
spends on Agents.
The shows format will be serial in style, like its time slot 
competitor, CBS crime drama NCIS, but will feature a 
continuous storyline to bring the season together. 
TvLine.com reported that Avengers veteran Cobie 
Smulders, reprising her role as Agent Maria Hill in 
the pilot, will be the one to plant the seeds for the 
overarching mystery. Although currently her appearance 
has only been con?rmed for the ?rst episode  a 
surprise kept secret until the closed screening of the 
pilot at this summers San Diego Comic-Con  perhaps 
viewers will get to see more from Agent Hill after 
Smulders ?nishes as Robin Scherbatsky in the ?nal 
season of How I Met Your Mother.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.s Agent Coulson was last seen 
in his death scene in The Avengers, but hes back to 
head this new team as they head out on cases. For those 
confused about his resurrection, dont worry  that 
story will come out. Whedon revealed at the panel that it 
will be something of a drawn-out explanation.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. premieres tomorrow at 8 p.m. EST.
Mairad Pettit | Junior Staffwriter
Avengers spinoff to premiere tomorrow
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. promises to stand on its own despite connection to hit movie
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
(Note: FREE as part of Ceilidh Weekend!)
Superman is back but with a whole new look. Zach 
Snyder and Christopher Nolan join forces to reboot 
Americas favorite superhero with more action and 
spectacle. The movie does not disappoint: Its brutal 
action sequences add a sense of exhilaration in 
scenes with Superman, played by the genetically 
blessed Henry Cavill, who struggles as a quiet alien 
hero amongst men.
Man of Steel
Thursday, Sept. 26
10
Monsters University
Saturday, Sept. 28
7 9:30
Sunday, Sept. 29
7
In the latest Pixar installment, Mike and Sully are back 
in school, training to become the scariest monsters on 
campus. A genuinely heartwarming prequel to Monsters, 
Inc., the ?lm is a great story about friendship and 
growing up that doesnt bank on nostalgia. Also, for all 
of us with Tartan pride, one of the Monsters University 
campus buildings looks just like Hamerschlag Hall. 
Perhaps Pixar looked at Carnegie Mellon for inspiration? 
Watch Monsters University to ?nd out!
Margin Call
Friday, Sept. 27
7:30 10
One of the smartest Wall Street movies in recent years, 
Margin Call provides a thrilling look into the world of 
Wall Street within a period of 24 hours. The movie is 
a ?ctional account of an investment ?rm in Manhattan 
scrambling through a transformational night of the 
2008 ?nancial crisis. Director J.C. Chandor crafted a 
methodical thriller that proves engaging and intelligent. 
Featuring a solid ensemble cast and a marvelously sharp 
and clever screenplay, the ?lm leaves the audience with 
just as many questions as it does answers as to whether 
?nancial ?rms are doing more harm than good.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

8art
pillbox 09.23.13
The Miller Gallerys newest installation, Alien She, explores the creative in?uence of the Riot Grrrls, an underground 
feminist punk movement rooted in Los Angeles that started making noise in the 90s. Curated by former Riot Grrrls 
Astria Suparak and Ceci Moss, the exhibit [re?ects] on this movements in?uence on a generation of people, 
according to Moss. Alien She opened on Friday and will run through Feb. 16 before touring the country.
Alien She presents mesmerizing display
The feminist punk-inspired exhibit presents a perversely fascinating collection of works
Above and top left: Allison Mitchells Ladies 
Sasquatch features a small collection of large, furry, 
unidentifiable animals with strangely human attributes. 
Top center: The first floor displays archival material 
on the Riot Grrrls, including a wall covered in posters 
and paraphernalia. Top right: Another display features 
tear-off flyers of free downloadable documents. Right: 
Ginger Brooks Takahashis Feminist Body Pillows 
eerily resembles a pile of headless torsos.
Jason Chen | Junior Photographer
Jason Chen | Junior PhotographerJason Chen | Junior Photographer
Jason Chen | Junior Photographer
Jason Chen | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

ONE NIGHT ONLY, TUESDAY OCTOBER 8
The last chance to see The Legend of Zelda: Symphony of the Goddesses as it returns to Heinz Hall by popular 
demand with SECOND QUEST! Expect breathtaking new visuals and music exploring additional chapters from the 
Zelda franchise as well as your original favorites. Dont miss the final area performance before the Quest ends in 2013.
With thePittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
FOR TICKETS, call 412-392-4900 or visit www.pittsburghsymphony.org
13SYM019_Zelda_Tartan_FINAL.indd   19/18/13   9:24 AM

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.23.1311
Chans Life by Karen Nguyen
kanguyen@andrew.cmu.edu
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 09.23.13
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.comcshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman
One Day... by The Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 09.23.1313
Solutions from Sep. 16
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Medium Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 09.23.13
1. PBS science series
2. Take down ___
3. Hindu music
4. Virginal
5. Guess
6. Tooth-bearing bone
7. End for Siam
8. Thorax
9. Country singer Tucker
10. Struck, old-style
11. Swiss river
12. Dracula author Stoker
13. French summers
21. Cutting tool
23. Glisten
25. Strike caller
26. Helping theorem
27. Conjunction
28. Japanese form of fencing
29. Queue after Q
31. Anonymous John
32. Water lily
33. Diciembre follower
34. Bowler hat
39. Family man
40. Luges
41. Acapulco aunt
42. Available for a pass
44. Dashboard abbr.
48. Suffix with glob
49. Entertained
51. Main artery
52. Dummy Mortimer
54. One of a matching pair
55. Actress Russo
56. Canadian gas brand
57. Lots and lots
59. Rejection power
60. Actor Julia
61. Buffalos county
64. AFL partner
65. Spring mo.
1. DEA agent
5. Bounce
10. Kemo ___
14. Colorful fish
15. Figure skater Cohen
16. Trading center
17. Lyras brightest star
18. Twixts partner
19. Dies ___
20. 1992 Wimbledon champ
22. Methods
24. Skye cap
25. Mormon state of western USA
26. Tepid
30. Ran without moving
35. Wind dir.
36. Sugar amt.
37. Peter of Hermans Hermits
38. Inclination
41. Small loudspeaker
43. Related to form
44. DI doubled
45. Metro area
46. Battery terminal
47. Corded silk fabric
50. Morse element
53. Shade tree
54. Federal crime
58. Body of work
62. Sunset direction
63. Summary
66. Cauterize
67. Not ___ many words
68. Nonsense
69. Sewing case
70. Inert gas
71. Bedeck
72. Pineapple vendor
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Dare to be optimistic and dream big. It could happen.
taurus
april 20may 20
Just remember: It could always be worse. Be grateful for 
what you have.
gemini
may 21june 21
Your just-getting-by attitude will not work this week. Its time 
to pull your socks up and take some pride in your work.
cancer
june 22july 22
You know whats going to happen if you do it. But if you still 
want to, go for it.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You dont do it for the recognition, but you enjoy the 
recognition, so keep it up.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Dont let your successes get to your head; nobody will care 
in a month from now.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
If you dont expect anything, youll never be disappointed.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
You may think you deserve it, but everyone has to earn it.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Every answer leads to more questions, but it will get easier.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Youve been working hard all of your life, and its finally 
going to pay off.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
You might blame your problems on your rotten luck, but 
you have to believe in yourself for things to go right.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Your solution might seem over the top, but its actually fairly 
elegant if you think about it.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.23.1315
TUESDAY9.24.13
Angel Olsen. The Andy Warhol Museum. 7:30 p.m.
The singer-songwriter will perform songs off her folkand 
country-inspired album Half Way Home, as well as other tunes. 
Tickets are $12 with a valid student ID and $15 without one.
WEDNESDAY9.25.13
Kurt Vile. Carnegie Lecture Hall. 8 p.m.
Indie songsmith Kurt Vile will be performing with his band The 
Violators at Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tickets are $15 with a valid 
student ID and $18 without one.
THURSDAY9.26.13
Danny Brown & Action Bronson. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
The two rappers will perform on the Pittsburgh stop of their 2 
High 2 Die tour. Expect haziness. Tickets are $22.
Downlink & ill.Gates. The Rex Theater. 8 p.m.
The two musicians will bring their bone-crushing brand of heavy 
dubstep to the Rex. We recommend bringing earplugs from Hunt 
if you plan on attending. Tickets are $15.
FRIDAY9.27.13
DJ BL3ND. Whim Nightclub. 10 p.m.
The Internet sensation will bring his weird mask and crowdpleasing mixes to Whim Nightclub this Friday. Hopefully he 
dances as well in person as he does in his videos. Tickets are 
$25.
Bill Burr.  Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
The successful comedian will be performing his unique brand 
of observational humor this Friday at Heinz Hall. Expect a lot of 
fanboys hanging around until the end to see if he knows anything 
about the Breaking Bad ?nale.
Gallery Crawl. Pittsburgh Cultural District. 5:30 p.m.
The latest installment of this free quarterly showcase of 
Pittsburghs arts and entertainment offerings will take place this 
Friday. Attendees are free to explore the galleries and events at 
their own pace, and given how much there is to see even a quick 
stop could prove highly rewarding. For more information, visit 
trustarts.org/events.
The Rubber Duck Bridge Party. Sixth Street Bridge. 5:30 p.m.
As a kick-off to the Pittsburgh International Festival of Firsts, the 
Sixth Street Bridge will be closed in order to welcome a fourstory-tall, three-story-wide rubber duck as well as to host the 
Pittsburgh Downtown Partnerships Night Market, featuring art 
and food vendors. This may be your only chance to see such an 
impressive rubber duck. For more information, visit 
culturaldistrict.org.
SATURDAY9.28.13
Baths. Altar Bar. 8 p.m. 
The electronic musician brings his breathtaking falsetto to 
Pittsburgh. Tickets range from $12 to $14, and the event is open 
to all ages.
ONGOING
Art Interprets Alzheimers. Society for Contemporary Craft 
Satellite Gallery. Through Sept. 29.
Sculptures by George Roby and photographs by Herbert 
Ascherman capture the emotional impact of Alzheimers through 
the eyes of patients and their loved ones.
Summer Flower Show. Phipps Conservatory and Botanical 
Gardens. Through Oct. 6.
The Summer Flower Show at Phipps incorporates glass 
artwork into the gardens, creating a colorful and whimsical 
fusion of the arti?cial and the natural. For more information, visit 
phippsconservatory.org.
Express Burlesque. Cabaret at Theater Square. 8 p.m. 
Through Oct. 12.
This exciting, burlesque-style dance revue combines an old 
burlesque feel with a provocative-yet-classy twist of today.
Defending the Caveman. Cabaret at Theater Square. 8 p.m. 
Through Oct. 20.
This is a one-man comedy show featuring humorous insights 
regarding gender and relationships.
Roads of Arabia. Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Through 
Nov. 3.
This exhibit transports visitors to the sands of Saudi Arabia, 
where recent archaeological ?nds rede?ne our understanding of 
the region. For more information, visit carnegiemnh.org.
UPCOMING
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & Illustration.  
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation (Hunt Library, Fifth 
Floor). Sept. 27 through Dec. 19. 
The exhibition will include 41 artworks by 41 artists from 
10 countries. The Institute established the International 
series in 1964 with the hope of supporting and encouraging 
contemporary botanical artists. Every three years, the 
International series features the works of talented botanical 
artists from around the world.
Our Town. OReilly Theater. Sept. 27 through Oct. 26.
The Thornton Wilder classic about life in a small town and just 
how extraordinary such a life can be will be brought to the stage 
in an upcoming production at the OReilly Theater on Penn 
Avenue in Pittsburgh, directed by Ted Pappas and starring 
Pittsburghs own Tom Atkins. For performance dates and tickets, 
visit trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 09.23.13
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presented Spank! The Fifty Shades 
Parody at the Cultural Districts Byham Theatre this past 
weekend. As the title suggests, the show spoofed E.L. James 
bestselling Fifty Shades of Grey and featured Danielle Trzcinski 
as protagonist Tasha Woode and Patrick Whalen as love interest 
Hugh. Student discounts to future Cultural District productions 
are available through the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
Spank!
