The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 12, December 7, 1982.
phoco by Gene Yonisb
People all over Pittsburgh are getting into the holiday spirit as Christmas and Hanukkah approach. Children here enjoy a train ride with 
Santa in a local store. , ;
Some SA Cs work, departments say
Prof mugged 
near campus
By PAULINE WENTartan Staffwriter
Thursday, November 18 around 10:15 
p.m., Richard L. Longini, a professor of 
electrical engineering at CMU, and his wife 
were walking from Forbes Avenue to the 
Bureau of Mines. About fifty feet in from the 
Forbes Avenue exit of the Bureau of Mines, 
Longini was suddenly knocked out and his 
wife was grabbed and thrown to the ground.
According to Longinis wife, one of two 
men got on Longini, who was unconscious, 
and started to hit him. When she screamed 
for him to stop, he got off. The two males, 
one white and the other black, ran away 
with a purse and a wallet. Longini was left 
with a bruised hand and broken shoulder, 
and his wife got a bruised knee.
Longini regained consciousness a short 
while later, and he and his wife walked to 
their car at Wean Hall. She drove both of 
them to the CMU police, who then took 
them to Montefiore Hospital. The assailants 
have not been apprehended.
Longini commented that it would be a 
good idea if the police would notify people 
as to what are the danger zones and what to 
do and not to do.
"There has been nothing on campus, 
said Chief of Security Bob Fadzen. In fact, he 
commented that this is one of the slower 
periods for the campus police. He added, 
however, that there have been a number of 
incidents in the surrounding communities 
necendy.
This is in concurrence with the usual rise 
continued on page 7
Novembo erm1
BY AUCE ALFONSI
Tartan Editor in Chief 
The CMU campus mourned the death of 
Valerie Brandt last week. Brandt was a 
senior majoring in professional and creative 
wnting. She died Saturday November 27 of 
a massive cerebral hemorrhage.
A memorial service for Valerie Brandt 
will be held in the Gallery of the Hunt 
Botanical Institute on Thursday, December 
9, at 3:30 p.m. All are welcome.
VALERIE BRANDT 
1961-1982
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Student Advisory Councils. What are 
they? What do they do? Most importantly,
Val Brandt was very active and popular 
member of the CMU community. She was 
co-captain of the womens basketball team, 
as well as a member of CIAs winning push 
team during last springs buggy races. She 
was also a freshman counselor for two years.
Commented Lois Cox, Associate Dean of 
Student Affairs, Val was a tremendously 
active and wonderful camp counselor.!
During her years at CMU Brandt partici
pated in the band, the Oakland Review, and 
was a social member of Kappa Kappa 
Gamma. In addition to her work study jobs, 
she wrote for Focus, helped with the CMU 
press, and was a research assistant for Eng
lish Professor Jean Carr.
Carr, who was also Brandts advisor, said, 
I was most impressed by the grace with 
which she was a student. She worked hard. 
She was active, yet she had a lot of heavy 
course work, and she carried it on in her 
own work. At times she would stop into my 
office to argue some point shed just heard in 
a literature class  not for any other reason 
than because it was important to argue it. 
Shed find interest in almost anything and 
make it exciting. It was nice to work with 
her.
According to Cox, Brandt had indi
cated to her father she thought it was a great 
idea when people die to give their organs to 
help others live. Upon her own death, Brandts 
wishes were honored, and her organs 
were successfully donated.
are they doing anything this year?
The Student Advisory Councils, com
monly called SACs, are a means of student 
input for department heads, and are run by 
individual departments. Through their 
department SAC, students can issue com
plaints and make suggestions about every
thing and anything from their curriculum 
to their professors teaching.
Each SAC includes two representatives 
from each class (excluding the freshman 
class), two graduate students, the head of the 
department, and the faculty senators. The 
student representatives are elected by their 
fellow class members, except the seniors 
who are chosen automatically after being
Donation made
By MONICA J. CELUO
Tartan News Editor
Last week Student Senate voted to honor 
Valerie Brandt, the senior who died recendy, 
with a memorial book and a charity 
donation.
Andy Stahl suggested that $50 be put 
toward a library book in Brandts memory, 
and that another $50 be donated to a charity. 
Brandts parents will be asked to choose the 
charity.
At the same meeting, elections were held 
for the chair, vice-chair, and committee 
chairs. Alexandra Kavoulakis was re-elected 
as chair and Janelle Malloy retained her 
position as vice-chair. The committee chairs 
are Laura Sabadell (Finance), John Pane 
(Rules), Linda Quarrie (General Campus 
and Information), and John Snyder (Aca
demic Affairs).
Two alternates were also appx)inted to the
junior representatives. This election/selec
tion process differs from department to 
department.
Different departments operate differendy according to what is best for them, 
elaborated Braden Walter, dean of Student 
Affairs.
It appears that the SACs have been 
formed, said Walter. For the past few weeks 
Student Affairs has been receiving replies to 
Walters letter of inquiry into the SACs in 
each department. Many of the departments 
have had their first meeting and some out
lined their plans for the coming year.
Professor Sorensen, head erf the physics 
continued on page 7
University Disciplinary Committee. They 
are Judy Mont and Elizabeth Fox.
In this issue
Editorial
In memory of Val Brandt ...............page 2
News
CivE joins honor society ......... page 7
lany Harmon joins faculty ...........page 8
Features
Guns over butter in Russia .............page 9
Carnegie has been to Princeton .. page 12 
Entertainment
CFA minors discovered.......... .. page 15
The Core: an exclusive interview. page 16
Sports
Mens basketball wdn thriller.... page 19 
Lady's hoop get trounced.... .. page 19
CMU mourns Valerie Brandt
Senate honors Brandt

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
In memory of Val Brandt
Dear God,
We dont know why you take lives. Maybe you have to, but why so young?
When you took her, our classmate, so suddenly we couldnt believe it. She was so full of life on 
this campus. Bouncing a basketball, pushing the winning buggy during carnival, laughing at 
some remark in the back of class, she had all the energy a 21 year-old brunette could have had  we 
thought.
The strongest feeling that stays with us after the anger, after the grief, after the sadness, is shame. 
We feel shame at not having realized how precious every living moment of each day is. How could 
we have forgotten what a gift it is to be alive. We are ashamed of how petty we were about things  
grades, checkbooks, gossip  things that since her death, dont matter.
And how did we even dare worry for more than 10 seconds about not being good enough, or not 
doing something well enough. How dare we take our lives for granted.
Maybe all the energy she had wont die with her. If her death can make us realize how lucky we all 
are to be alive, then she wont die. A little bit of her will live on in our memories, poking at us, 
making us remember how honesdy she lived, and humbling us when we forget to thank you, God, 
for allowing us to walk, sleep, wake, breathe  live.
A memorial service for Valerie Brandt will be held in the Gallery of the Hunt Botanical Institute 
on Thursday, December 9, at 3:30 p.m.
Nate tells a seasonal favorite CMU style
By Nate Solano
A CMU Christmas Carol 
I refuse to apologize to Dickens 
It was Christmas eve 1982 and Wrad Bal
ters (Dean of Student Affairs) was working 
f| at his small desk adding up tui| tion figures. Suddenly the door 
burst open, and the room grew 
noticeably colder with the pres
ence of Ebeneezer Sighert.
Balters, he bellowed, arent you 
through with those figures yet?
Y-yes s-sir, Balters stumbled, b-but I 
seem to be having trouble j-justifying them. 
I promise to have them soon.
Make sure you do, Sighert sneered. 
Tomorrow is Christmas Day, sir, and if 
it isnt too much trouble, I might like the 
day off.
It is too much trouble, but if you must 
have it, you must. Be sure to be in three 
hours early next time and plan to stay late. 
Yes sir, thank you sir, and Merry Christ
mas, sir.
Bah, humbug.
Later that night as he lay sleeplessly in 
bed, Ebeneezer thought to himself, Ive got 
to cut down on the caffeine, my doctor says 
that it keeps me awake.
Oh . . . Ebeneezer!
Christ, Ive really got to cut down on the 
caffeine.
Oowwoo . . . Ebeneezer, its not the caf
feine, it is I, Andrew Carnegie faint sound of bagpipes in distance. Tonight you will be 
visited by three spectors, the first when the 
dock strikes midnight.  bong, bong, etc. Lights dim  silence, curtain opens. The scene: Tech Field, 1950 B.M. (Before Mellon). A large crowd is watching a football game; Fight for the glory of Carnegie!''
Those were the days, Sighert said, 
cheap tuition, a good secretarial school, 
and everybody carried slide-rules. Who are 
you, anyway?
A jolly figure speaks, I wouldve thought 
you would have guessed by now. Im the 
Ghost of Students Past. My time is up now, I 
have to get back to my blue collar job. Youll 
be visited again at two oclock.
And Ebeneezer finds himself back in his 
bed ... Thank God, Im safe, (bong, bong, 
etc) damn!The scene: A plush office on the sixth floor of Hamer Wall.
"Why, thats me, and Wrad Balters. Hes a 
good man! Incidentally, who are you?
A denim-clad figure responds, burp  
Im the Ghost of Students Presidents. Now 
watch as events unfold.
Foreign object strikes window and 
shatters.
The image of Sighert speaks. What was 
that, Balters?
A cookie, sir.
What? 
I-I said, a cookie, sir.
Well, see if you can disperse the goofballs who are responsible.
Sighert suddenly appears in front of 
Hamer Wall, amidst a mass of flying coo
kies. He reaches out to stop a student but his 
hands pass through the wrist of the misled 
activist.
They are only images, said the ghost.
They cannot see or hear you. Well, Ive got 
to hurry now because the last ghost is 
expected back at four and I dont want to 
run into him.
What?
Goodbye.
 damn.
The scene: A darkly-clad figure somewhat 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur n
1984 races: Kennedy drop-out changes game
By Stuart Shapiro
A week ago, the one sure thing in life 
besides death and finals  which often 
amount to the same thing  was that 
Edward Kennedy would seek the 1984 
Democratic presidential 
nomination.
A week later, you can still 
count on death and finals, but 
not on a Kennedy nomination. Rarely 
have political pundits (and nonpundits) 
been taken so much by surprise. The Demo
cratic favorite didnt even get to the starting 
gate, let alone the home stretch. Suddenly, 
all bets are off as the gurus start recomput
ing the odds.
Odds are this little development will ulti
mately help the Democrats and hurt the 
Republicans. Kennedy was leading the 
other unofficial contenders in the public 
opinion polls and appeared likely to end up 
with that which he unsuccessfully fought 
for in 1980. Campaign staff was being recruted. The 1982 election had been used to test 
television commercials that would, it was 
hoped, defuse the character issue. All sys
tems were go for a Kennedy run at the White 
House.
That Kennedy wont be making that run 
is good news for the Democratic Party. AExperiencing CMU (again)
By Maria Barbu to
Back to CMU? Me? No, no, no, I wont do 
it, I refuse, Im just gonna sit right here on 
my suitcases cause theyre still going to Har
vard and so am I. Whine, whine, whine, I 
glared at my mother the entire last week of 
August. Back at CMU, bag those/
memories of Europe and get set 
for three months of tension wire
- living. Oh shit, I have to pick a 
department. Dont make me do 
this to myself. No, I still dont know what 
the hell I want to do with my life. Ask me 
next week. Alright, alright Ill decide for the 
seventh time.
Lets go drama department. But this is 
weird. Christ, I dot know anything about 
the theatre. O.K., Ill learn. No, no I wanna 
be a computer programmer. Wheres my 
drop-ad? Oh shit, schedule conflicts. What 
department are you really in? Just dont ask.
O.K., O.K., Ive been here three weeks. 
Thats pretty good. Things are setding 
down. Midterms. My grades suck. Ill work 
for IBM, just drop out of my whirlwind life 
into their clammy polyester hands. End of 
turmoil and general up-in-the-air status.
Routine, yeah! I dont wanna feel like a 
bombarded alpha particle anymore. And 
bag fine arts cause I cant live like a heathen 
slime anymore. But I bet I cant smoke 
cigarettes in front of the personal 
computers.
Its actually November now, thats what 
the unicorn on my calendar says. 
TRANSFER, I scream at everyone stand
ing in the snake lines running through 
Baker Hall for spring semester registration. 
Those days were good. I would saunter by, 
Novemvbr1 ov page 4
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. . 
Letter* to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Kennedy nomination would almost cer
tainly have divided the party in much the 
same manner as his 1980 challenge. When 
you come right down to it, Kennedy is just I 
more liberal than a lot of Democrats feel 
comfortable with these days. The Old Left 
would undoubtedly have been enthusiastic, 
but the rest of the party would have felt a bit 
left out in the cold.
So would a lot of voters. Nothing in either 
the 1982 election results or the opinion polls 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur n
Thefotan.
Editor in Chief.................................Alice Aifonsi
Managing Editor...........................Vince Guint
Business Manager..........................Louise Crocoll
News Editor...................................Monica Oellio
Features Editor................. ............ Geof Bed
Entertainment Editor.........................Sue Petne
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor.....................John Stilwell
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager.....................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Contributing Editor.....................Gregg Bosslff
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Saving
Assoc Features Editor.............Pauline Kraii#
Associate Photo Editor.....................Gene Yoru5*1
Asst Opinion Editor...........................Peter Bain
Asst. Ent Editor...........................John Can1*
Asst Sports Editor............................Ric MednJ
Asst Business Mgr........................Kathy Wa*1
Production Staff: Margaret Eissler, And5** 
Ghali, Monica Safrin, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Bo^ 
reserves the right to withhold from publication ^ 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offi^ 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo* 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21 IS. 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

December 7, 1982The TartanPage 3
Letters.
Holocaust course offered
Editor:
In the Schedule of Classes for Spnng 1983 
which all of you used while registering a few 
weeks ago, one course that was not listed but 
which will in fact be offered is course #66- 
315 The Holocaust: Toward an Interreli
gious Understanding. This is a 9-unit 
course, and is offered as an interdisciplinary 
elective, sponsored by H&SS.
The Holocaust course has had a very suc
cessful history over the past few years. Essen
tially, it is designed as an attempt to 
understand the Holocaust in light of histori
cal, psychological, philosophical, literary, 
and religious concerns of our own time. The 
course focuses on a personal search for 
meaning in a post-Holocaust age. The 
course is also unique in that it is teamtaught by Jewish, Protestant, and Roman
8aunmed b0ome
Editor:
I feel the obligation to respond to the 
death of one of my colleagues, Valerie 
Brandt. She was not a close friend, however 
she had been in many of my classes over the 
course of my four years here. She would 
have graduated with me this spring in my 
major, professional writing.
I happened to be in the Joyce class but not 
in attendance the day on which she became 
ill and three days later passed away. Eve
ryone in the class feels a great loss. No one 
really knows what caused Valerie to die 
I unexpectedly. She seemed in perfect health, 
la basketball player and an all around 
athlete.
Unexpected tragedies happen all the 
time. This one was particularly painful for 
all those students who knew Valerie. It 
seems ironic to die a day before Thanksgiv
ing. I extend my sympathy to Valeries 
| parents.
Leslie Weinberg
Catholic chaplains to the CMU campus  a 
reflection of the courses interdisciplinary 
and interreligious focus.
The Holocaust course will meet through
out the Spring semester on Wednesday even
ings, from 7-9 p.m., in Baker Hall 225D. If 
you have questions about the course please 
call Rabbi Joseph Levine (Bnai Brith Hillel Director for the Pittsburgh campuses, 
621-8857), Pastor Paul H. Sampsell (campus 
pastor at the Lutheran University Center, 
682-6886), or Sister Bernadette Young (a 
Divine Providence Sister, and a campus 
minister with the Roman Catholic Oratory, 
681-3181).
To Register visit the H&SS Academic 
Advisory Center (Baker Hall 161), and enter 
your name o the class list, and fill out an 
add/drop form. The course has a limit of 
40 spaces; if interested, you should sign up 
as soon as possible, but certainly before leav
ing for Christmas vacation. Questions on 
registration procedures: x2925 (H&SS Aca
demic Advisory Center).
Jay Devine
CMU: Trouble in Three River City?
Steve Smith, a 1982 graduate of CMU, 
was student government president during 
his senior year. The following is a letter 
which he submitted to Newsweek. He felt it 
would be interesting to Tartan readers.
 Editor
Editor
What is CMU trying to do in Pittsburgh? 
Are they racing to become the first college in 
the country to replace the student-faculty 
ratio with a student-computer ratio in their 
admissions brochures? clammoring for 
technological supremacy, is CMU losing 
sight of its educational purpose?
CMUs proposal to require all students to 
purchase personal computers is certainly 
unique, but uniqueness alone cannot legi8uaoub :05rpd parorpr.me
Editor
I have viewed with distress, the verbal bat
tleground which The Tartan has become 
[ over the past few months and, at the risk of 
sounding repititious [sic], feel that I have to 
j present my views.
The primary intent of this letter is not to 
| attack the university, fraternities, of individi uals, that has been done far too often since 
the begining of the semester. Rather the aim 
of this letter is to shake up The Tartan itself 
in the hope that it will awaken to a fact that I 
j consider a crying injustice.
The fact to which I refer is yoUr^blase 
I attitude toward what you select for print. I 
use the word select loosely, for it appears to 
me that you do not judiciously select arti| cles, but merely print anything and every
thing that comes your way. This is 
j especially noticeable in the editorials. You 
have stated more than once this year that the 
[editorials printed are not of origin within 
The Tartan.
Hne, but you do have the responsibility to
your readers not to allow the editorials to 
become a circus of name calling and accusa
tions. When you allow an article to be 
printed which singles out certain individu
als in an attempt to maliciously attack their 
character through foul language, all of 
which is printed, you are not only using bad 
taste, but questionable journalism. Granted, 
people have a right to their opinion, but 
when someone submits an article, you not 
only have the right, but also the obligation 
to return that article, if necessary, to the 
writer for revision.
It seems easy enough to ask a person to 
clean up the language in an article before 
being printed. The quote from the 
November 23, 1982 edition of The Tartan, 
We print all opinion, gives me an uneasy 
feeling. It is unsetding to think that some
one who perhaps has a beef against myself 
could write a letter calling me every name 
under the sun, and have it printed for thou
sands of people to read.
In closing, I would like to say that over the 
years I have enjoyed The Tartan and con
sider it a good college publication. None of 
us are without flaws however, and it is some
times helpful to have others point them out. 
It is my hope that this letter will be taken as 
constructive criticism and be useful in pre
paring future editions of The Tartan.
Mark Oberkirchner 
d0: ME
We do edit libel. If a person is willing to 
sign his name to an opinion that is not 
libelous, we will print it.
Editor
P.S. We do sincerely note your criticism.
timize a project whose benefits are at best 
questionable and whose costs are real and 
appalling. An objective cost-benefit analysis 
must be conducted before we allow the direc
tion of education in our nations colleges to 
swing irretrievably toward an impersonal 
distribution of knowledge which ignores 
the importance of personality development 
as a goal of the system.
A year ago when this idea emerged from 
Warner Hall, I was serving as the President 
of Student Government at CMU. At that 
time my objections were dismissed or 
ignored by the administrators involved. 
Now as an ex-President of Student Govern
ment and a graduate of CMU, I feel obliged 
to meet the national attention paid to this 
proposal with a public statement of my own 
objections. My goal is to stimulate intelli
gent discussion of the merits of this new 
direction in higher education.
CMUs undertaking is simply the product 
of the recognition that computers are and 
will increasingly become vital to our society. 
Even though I disagree with CMUs idea, I 
believe that I can fairly identify three goals 
that CMU hopes to attain. The first aim is to 
provide each student with instant access to 
computer resources. This access simply 
eliminates the frustrating and inefficient 
wait for an open terminal that occurs often 
at CMU and other schools.
CMUs second goal is to increase the use 
of computers in the everyday life of its stu
dents. Students are encouraged to take 
advantage of the word-processing capabili
ties to compose personal letters and to pro
duce resumes and cover letters for their 
summer job searches. In addition students 
can send computer mail to a friend which he 
can receive when he next logs in; interactive 
conversations are also possible between con
current users. And of course students can 
amuse themselves by the familiar and everexpanding array of computer games availa
ble on the system. These and other 
nonacademic uses of the personal computer 
are a part of CMUs mission to prepare stu
dents for life in the computer age.
CMUs third goal is to increase the role of 
the computer in the academic area. Already 
students use the computers for various class 
assignments in history, engineering, mathe
matics, philosophy, etc. With the imple
mentation of CMUs plan, students of all 
academic departments in all colleges will be 
required to use the computer in class work. 
Eventually student-professor communica
tions and even individualized testing will 
occur on the computer. This goal and 
indeed all three of the above goals are 
unquestionably attainable through CMUs 
innovation.
My view is that these benefits do not over
come the high practical and social costs of 
the proposed plan. In what follows I will 
detail my objections and concerns with the 
plan and then proceed to suggest an alter
nate plan which would yield all of the 
important benefits without the accompany
ing costs of the present proposal.
The practical problems associated with 
the plan are numerous. The residence halls 
are inadequate to accomodate the new 
tenants. The rooms lack space; there are few 
electrical oudets; and the electrical systems 
are easily overburdened. The logical solu
tion" is to assign one less person to multipleoccupany rooms, leaving the present singles 
to the unwary incoming freshman. But 
CMU has already experienced a serious 
housing shortage which necessitated the 
leasing of nearby apartment houses to 
accomodate students. And, despite requests 
from the student body to reduce enrollment 
and build a new dormitory, the problem still 
exists.
Along with general dormitory inadequa
cies come the attendant problems of mainte
nance and security. Does CMU, after 
requiring students to purchase personal 
computers, expect them to pay for repairs? 
Installation? To see what problems may 
arise, consider the fact that intoxicated stu
dents in the past have seen fit to throw desks 
out of third floor fire escapes.
The security problems are obvious. Dor
mitory theft is not foreign to CMU and the 
addition of a valuable personal computer to 
each room will only make the dwellings 
more attractive to thieves. Would the stu
dent whose computer was stolen be required 
to purchase a new one? Must all students 
arrange for theft insurance?
And a special case arises for the non
resident. In an off-campus housing situa
tion students dont have the luxury of 
having their computers hardwired to the 
main system. Should the apartment dweller 
be asked to tie up his telephone for long 
periods of time? Should he be forced to 
acquire two telephone lines? Should the stu
dent who lives with his family monopolize 
the family phone? And the attendant secur
ity problems exist with equal if not greater 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanDecember 7, 1982
Negative effects of computer plan can be avoided
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur ,
force for the non-resident.
Even if these practical pitfalls can be 
avoided, there are inevitable sociological 
problems inherent on the surface, but they 
become very real when viewed from the stu
dent perspective.
One of my strongest concerns is that stu
dents will have no escape from the compu
ter. Most students find computers 
unbearably frustrating throughout their 
education. With the computer-in-everydorm-room plan, students will be forced to 
face their nemesis at the start and at the end 
of each day.
Another of my fears is that students will 
use their computers to excess, at the expense 
of interpersonal relationships and academic 
success. The problem of the student lacking 
in oral communication and social skills 
already exists at CMU. In addition many 
students seem to become addicted to the 
computer and spend countless hours play
ing games til dawn while their class assign
ments are lost among the reams of computer 
paper. Increasing the availability of compu
ters to all students will doubdess aggravate 
the problem by giving all student instant 
access to solitude.
Finally I fear that this plan will contrib
ute to the depersonalization of education. In 
the article which appeared in the Education 
section of Newsweeks November 1 issue, J. 
Ray Scott of CMUs computer science 
department expressed my fear quite accu
rately when he said, We are working 
toward the day when students and faculty 
would not even have to come in to campus. 
Is an empty campus a desirable goal? Do we 
hope to eliminate all personal encounters?
My concerns take on greater meaning 
when considered in light erf the dual pur
pose erf college education. College purports 
to provide the student with the opportunity 
for intellectual growth AND personality 
development. The notion of personality 
development is difficult to articulate, but it 
can be characterized as the product of friend
ships, of group projects, of male-female rela
tionships, of student-professor encounters, 
of coexistence in residence hall.
I believe the two goals to be equally 
important. But it would seem that CMUs
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur R
casually flipping through the 789 pages of 
courses in the Harvard catalog. In fact, I 
spent so much time picking my courses over 
and over again in various sequences that 
Harvard finally said I should wait till I got 
there to decide. Fine with me. I can make it
 what, another month or two? Im just 
gonna cruise through, lay back, be mellow 
and enjoy things for a change.
I can be a real fool sometimes. But I was 
doing fine for awhile. I really was, really 
was. Then I ran into the emotional obstacle 
course that I inevitably put myself through 
each semester. Please dont talk to me I am 
sooo depressed today. And Id wake up at 4 
a.m. to make minute rice in my roommates 
hot pot because I saw myself shopping with 
my mother for career woman clothes just 
after Id seen myself as an entry-level writer 
for Plumbing Annual. You gotta start 
somewhere, yes? But I wanted to start wher
ever they keep the black mazeratis and 
Greenwich Village apartment. Thanksgiv
ing break. Last time I talked to my mother 
she didnt mention anything about purchasproponents of the proliferation of personal 
computers strive to dismiss personality 
development from the curriculum. This 
omission is blatandy inconsistent with the 
goals of a school that prides itself in produc
ing competent professionals and future 
corporate presidents.
It seems to me that there is a way to 
achieve the important goals while eliminat
ing the prohibitive costs. CMU can stop at 
one of the intermediate step in the present
ing a computer and I bet the batteries in my 
sisters Walkman are dead, I just know none 
of the kids I went to high school with will 
ask me what I got in 211. Safe from CMU 
sysmptoms for at least four days. Peace.
Maria, why dont you have your shit 
together yet? Youre a junior now and youre 
still as disorganized ... Wine. I need lots of 
wine and where are those gnocchis? Im just 
gonna eat these gnocchis and not say any
thing because Ive been saying the same 
thing for the last two Thanksgivings and no 
one listened to me then so I should just eat 
these gnocchis. You didnt let me go to 
Northwestern or University of Pennsylvania 
or ... I dont know how I said anything 
with all those gnocchis in my mouth but I 
guess I did.
CMUs a good school so dont hit me 
with that guilt trip. Im just gonna munch 
this pumpkin pie until I hear all the stories 
about all the famous people who went to 
CMU and didnt poo-poo the whole thing, 
and then Ill find out about all the things 
that CMU does for its students and humanplan without giving up their dreams of gj^. 
duating students who will rise to promi
nence in the age of the computer. By 
providing computer rooms in the dormitory, CMU can give students instant access 
through which they can use the computers 
for class work as well as for personal uses, 
With this plan CMU students will be com
petent in a technological as well as sociolog
ical sense. The change is definitely worth it.
Steven L. Smith
ity because it says so in the magazines.
But I wanted to go to Princeton. I said 
that very distinctly even with Cool Whip 
hanging over my bottom lip. You know, I 
really think Im in the wrong school. Better 
grab one of those Italian cookies my grand
mother always makes before I get the next 
blow. Well its good enough for a lot of 
people. Yeah, and so is basic training.
Alright, so I never wanted to be a doctor. 
In fact, I cant ever remember having a cal
ling in life. I mean, I thought I heard 
whispers, maybe an occasional monotone 
message (comp, sd., comp, sci.) but I knowl 
never had the PA system push it takes to 
keep your marbles in this place.
Youre too young to be depressed. 
Theres an age limit? So when am I legal? 
Youre being spoiled. Im always being 
spoiled. Look, CMU is just peachy keen if I 
wanted to be an engineer or a computer 
sdentist or an actress or in fact, it would 
probably be perfectly acceptable for any
thing that I could decide I wanted to be in 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur n
Decisions, decisions
Novembo u,Rriu5mbo uR0vo puamma pc0rpm
The countless readers of such 
great Michener historical novels as 
Hawaii, The Source, and The Cov
enant will recall that they are set in 
vast time frames; die action in Space 
covers only 40 years, but the setting 
extends for billions of miles beyond 
the surface of Earth.
The incredible successes of the 
Gemini and Apollo manned flights 
... the Viking landings on Mars... the 
breathless performance of the 
Columbia ... the encounters with 
Jupiter and Saturn  these and 
other awesome achievements of our 
space program (and the planning, 
experimenting, and political 
maneuvering behind the scenes) 
blend with a brilliantly imagined fic
tional landing of Apollo 18 on the 
far side of the moon  a scene that 
ranks with the most memorable ever 
created by this master storyteller.
$17.95
emu bookstore*
An un pa railed collection from col
lege humor, including cartoons, 
jokes, sketches, parodies and stories, 
from more than % college maga
zines. Peter Amo, Robert Benchley, 
Art Buchwald, Whitney Darrow Jr., 
F. Scott Fitgerald, Rube Goldberg, 
Dr. Seuss, Booth Tarkington, James 
Thurber and S.J. Perelman are just 
some of the contributors.
$9.95
Offering a complete range of 
recipes  from Barbecued Ribs, foie 
with Almonds, and Glazed Chicken 
Wings for appetizers to Pork Chops 
in Raisin Sauce, Baked Coconut 
Fish, Fruited Pot Roast, and Curried 
Chicken as main dishes to Glazed 
Apple Rings, Creme Brulee, and 
Plums in Wine Sauce for dessert, this 
is another certain winner from the 
name that American homemakers 
trust the most
Here is the perfect guide for mil
lions of people who want to explore 
further the pleasures of their 
sexuality.
$11.95
With all the insight, sensitivity, 
and concern he has shown in his 
earlier writings, Dr. Buscaglia tack
les a number of difficult questions  
how individuals, people or leaves, 
can be mortal while life itself can be 
immortal; why this enigma makes it 
easier for us to understand the deli
cate balance between life and death; 
what makes it all so glorious. Fred
die and the other friendly leaves on 
his tree, who pass through the sea
sons of the year only to fall on the 
ground with the winter snow, are 
symbols of us all, passing through 
the days of our lives, enjoying and 
living while we can and then accept
ing our mortality with dignity and 
equanimity. The lovely full-color 
photographs throughout add to the 
beauty and calm of this gem of a 
book. A perfect gift and a wonderful 
learning experience.
ic:hL
Now, for the first time, the mil
lions of Garfield fans can see him in 
his Sunday best, in full-color from 
the Sunday paper. In this oversized 
collection, Americas favorite cat 
bears a bath, sees a sunrise and eats a 
pair of sweat socks!
ic:hL:
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Note: All staff members should come to the elections. Members will be able to vote for their individual section editors.
\ %
Editor-in-chief........
Managing Editor___
News Editor............
Features Editor........
Entertainment Editor .
Sports Editor............
Photography Editor ..
Art Editor...............
Business Manager___
Production Manager . 
Typesetting Manager . 
Associate News Editor 
Assoc Photo Editor .. 
Assoc Bus. Manager .
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here 
Your name here
Production Staff: Your Name, Your Name, Your 
Name, Your Name, Your Name, Your Name, and 
Your Name.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
Tartan Elections
Tonight 6:00 p.m.
Highlander Room
Election of editors for the Spring-Fall 1983 term will occur 
Tuesday, December 7 (Tonight!).
Funded by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
Positions Available:
Editor in Chief 
Dossier Editor
(require 1 semester experience)
Managing Editor 
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor 
(no experience necessary)
Business Manager 
Production Manager 
Advertisement Manager 
(appointed  be there anyway)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanDecember 7, 1982
President Solano updates Dickens' h Lcar1o,u1 Lua0g
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur R
resembling Darth Vader and smelling distincdy of machine oil approaches Sighert  
Sighert flees and trips over a bag erf money.
"Damn Balters, I told him not to leave 
this out here. Who are you anyway?
The ghost says nothing. O.k., Ill guess. 
Now lets see, the first ghost was of students 
past and the second was of students Presi
dents, so you must be either the Ghost of 
Students Future or a realistic, life-size, Star 
Wars action figure.
A blinding flash of light.
Where are we now? Why, this looks like 
my office, but where are all the people? 
WTiere is Balters? He used to have a desk 
there. The spector merely shakes his head. 
Where is my desk? It should be here. 
The spector points to a dimly lit comer of 
the office.
Sorry spector, although I feared the first 
students, I fear thee worst of all. Tell me, is 
this the future that must be or that might 
be?
The spector urges him forward again and 
Sighert screams.
"My God! Its a computer. Ive been 
replaced by a computer. Wait! It has an 
inscription. It says: PRESIVAC by IBM, 
dedicated to Ex-President Sighert who now 
works at the 7-Eleven with George G. 
Sighert falls to his knees and clutches at 
the feet of his spector. When he opens his 
eyes he is clutching the leg of his desk. The 
sun has just risen.
"Thank you, oh spector, thank you so 
much, it wasnt true, it doesnt have to be, I 
can change. He throws open his window 
and shouts to an obviously hung over boy 
lying in the street.
"Boy, what day is it today?
Why, its Christmas day, sir.
WTell then dont just stand there, run
down to the 7-Eleven and buy a Big Gulp 
and a Snickers bar and deliver them to Wrad 
Balters house. Ill give you half a crown. 
Sure, why not?
Time to visit Wrad.
A short time later at Wrad Balters 
residence.
Why, President Sighert sir, do you need 
me to work today?
Why would I want that, Wrad? Its 
Christmas Day. May I come in?
Sure, President Sighert, theres enough 
Coke and Snickers for everyone. They mys
teriously arrived here with no explanation. 
Wrad, I need you to do me a favor. I first 
need you to have a Merry Christmas. And 
dont come back until January eleventh. 
When you get back, well begin construc
tion of a new Student Union. Then well 
lower tuition by 19%. And I almost forgot,
cancel the contract with IBM. Do that today, 
in fact.
Pardon me, Dr. Sighert, while I order a 
pizza from Dominoes.
But Balters didnt call Dominoes, he 
called the Trustees. Hello Trustees, it looks 
like the boss has finally lost it. Im recom
mending electroshock therapy.
Within thirty minutes or less, the men in 
the white coats cleverly disguised as Domi
noes pizza delivery boys were dragging Dr. 
Sighert from Balters abode.
God bless us, every one, quothe Sighert.
Any resemblance to persons living or 
dead in this story are supposed to be by 
coincidence and are written in the pursuit of 
fun.
Special thanks to Rob Devoy (not Dean of 
Student Affairs) and Jon Maiman without 
whom this story would never have been
written.
Ill be in the office most of the time this 
week. If you have any concerns, see me there 
or call at 687-6404. Listen for my first annual 
Christmas Special on WRCT Thursday, 
December 16 between 6 and 10 p.m. We still 
need members for a back-up brass band and 
all I ask is that volunteers have not touched 
their instruments since high school. We also 
need carolers for special Christmas requests 
also.
Merry Christmas 
Happy Chanukkah, 
and get a job,
Nate Solano is a junior (now)majoring in 
public policy and management and (in case 
you havent figured it out yet) is President of 
the Student Government.
Trying to find oneself a place is difficult
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur 5
the span of a normal lifetime. So whats 
you problem, cookie breath? Its deciding. 
It always is. But by process of elimination, 
Ive totally bagged nearly all occupations 
within the current realm of the work force 
and even most in the areas of projected 
growth.
All Ive got left on the list of desirable 
vocations is heiress to the throne of any 
country in Western Europe and Laurie And
erson. Be practical was the choral reply 
from the dinner table. Well Laurie Ander
son is already Laurie Anderson, but I read 
an article in Harpers that said there were 
eleven countries, in the world this is I think, 
that have queens as sovereign rulers^. Thats 
probably my best shot.
Back from break, back from break and Im
EVEN STRAIGHT A'S CAN'T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION.
Ttxlay. the toughest thing about going 
to college is finding the money to pay for it.
But Army ROTCcan help two 
ways!
First, you can apply for an Army 
ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, 
books, and supplies, and pays you 
up to $ 1,000 each school year its 
in effect.
But even it you re not a 
scholarship recipient, ^ a 
ROTC can still nelp . 
with financial assis
tance up to $1,000 &iti 
a year for your 
last two years in 
the program.
For more 
information, 
contact your <r 
Professor of 
Military Science gfst fCMU:wl gkk tCF UgA y:
For further information please contact 
Cpt Thom Tuckey or 
Cpt Michael Schulte 
Department of Military Science 
B7, MMCH, 2nd Basement 
578-2205/21%
feeling rather trapezoidal lately  I know I 
just dont fit in. Oh I bend and twist and 
turn and squeeze but still, there are all these 
Maria edges that cant be tucked neady into 
one of CMUs pre-packaged departments. I 
still think its my fault though. Im looking 
for chromosomal aberrations now.
But let me say something nice. Ive met 
some of the most unique people here and 
thats not something I regret at all. Ive 
learned a lot from the people, things that 
cant be found in a textbook at any of the 
schools I still dream about.
After I searched for the utopian institu
tion last semester and found that it didnt 
exist, I really thought I could be blissfully 
pleased with any atmosphere. Maybe I just
didnt try hard enough. But I just bet that 
somewhere out there, in some country or 
some monastery or even some cave, theres 
this school for people like me (yes, there 
could be more) and if/when I find it, Im 
gonna bow down on its green lacrosse field 
(it will have a lacrosse field) and worship, 
praise, glorify and like it a hell of a lot. And 
then Ill start thinking about what I want to 
do with my life.
Maria Barbuto has spent three years at 
CMU and has at different times majored in 
the following: biology, technical writing, 
computer science, drama, creative writing, 
etc., and she is a guest columnist for The 
Tartan.
fmbbmeds 0voReagan to be on defensive
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur R
shows voters, despite a distinct lack of 
enchantment with Reaganomics, willing or 
desiring a return to those days of yore when 
liberals attempted to cure all of societys ills 
by throwing money at them. Actually, Im
not all that sure we ever left those days 
behind; the Reagan administration seems 
determined to employ the same strategy to
rectify our perceived defense deficiencies. Or 
maybe I just fail to grasp the subtle distinc
tions between the two approaches.
The Reagan team, on the other hand, has 
not failed to grasp the fact that theyve got a 
whole new ball game on their hands  
assuming, of course, that our illustrious 
leader decides to try for an encore. Voters
'00
C|A charismatic 
k>-H prayer meetin 
(Jevery Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Beliefield Ave. 
f"! (Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
i| Oakland, Pa. 
I^call Rege for 
jljlfi information: 262-3950.
strong perception of Kennedy as a tradi
tional big-spending liberal would have pro
vided an oratorical target so the Great 
Communicator could have hit it even with
out his cue cards. Reagans record would 
have taken a back seat to Kennedys liberal
ism as the dominant campaign issue.
But alas, it is not to be so. Reagan may 
now be forced to face (I hope) one of the so 
called neo-liberals who are attempting, with | 
only limited success so far, to raise the 
Democratic party out of its intellectual dol 
drums. Not only would a candidate such as 
Colorado senator Gary Hart offer a palata 
ble alternative to Reagans obsolete vision of 
America, he could draw broad based sup
port both from inside the party and froni the 
electorate as a whole.
Im afraid I just wont miss you that much 
Ted. But its very comforting to know that 
Ronald Reagan will.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
history and is a columnist for The Tartan
PREGNANT? can ata
Lets talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
I'ii and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
a non-profit organization

---------------------------------------------------

December 7, 1982The TartanPage 7
ByPAULINEWE Thur sTTd
OMQO/NM6E CONCERT DDWHOUR PRESENTS:Tlub4Q BECOWIED LIVE II COMmpia EdidtorC ONCEIfT SjBBIES m fam THIS WEEK: MjOlII
TUES-8:30PM RADIO CLASH INTERVIEW WITHMUNTS
GHECK EACH WEEK FOR MORE^fc FETURE ANO 
SPECIALS CALL 578  OR 6MKT
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
FRIDAY FILMS
a ROBERT CHARTOFF-IRWIN WINKLER production  ROCKY II! SYLVESTER STALLONE -TALIA SHIRE BURT YOUNG  CARL WEATHERS and BURGESS MEREDITH as Mickey  director of photogr^hy BILL BUTLER, A.S.C. music by BILL CONTI  produced by IRWIN WINKLER and ROBERT CHARTOFF written and directed by SYLVESTER STALLONE qftsffsyr United Artists............. MdMMBIB! 1ECHMCOLOTCarnegift c sC so uuudd bpgtc. Letghth Caeraemtgap Ll ,gifth ,chcptc.
DEC. 106, 8, 10 p.m. and Midnight 
DH 2210 $1.00 W/CMU ID
Faculty, students pleased[
SACs in some departments called effective
Novemvbr1 e0o. 8aur x
department, called the SACs a "communi
cation between department and the stuBy MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Last week CMU was accepted into the 
national civil engineering honor society Chi 
Epsilon.
CMU was officially accepted on Friday at 
a ceremony at Pitt. According to Tom 
Ragno, senior president of the CMU chap
ter, Pitt has been a member for 12 years. 
They asked to participate in the ceremony
dents. He believes the physics SAC has 
been successful.
There have been certain things that were
since they will be hosting the societys 
national conclave in 1984.
Ragno stated that CMU has not had a 
chapter in the past because the CivE classes 
werent big enough. In the past two years, 
however, department head Dwight Sangrey 
was looking into it, Ragno said, and the 
students petitioned for acceptance. Last 
years seniors actually did the most work, 
he said.
unsuccessful, but overall its been good for 
us, he said. The physics SAC meets about 
once monthly and they have discussed every
thing from academic interests to the new 
alcohol policy.
Weve gotten quite a bit accomplished, 
commented Charles Bauer, a senior on the 
chemistry department SAC. Bauer has been 
a representative since sophomore year. We 
were able to change the p-chem book, and in 
scheduling and course times weve mosdy 
gotten what weve wanted. Bauer com
mented that he gets most of his student 
input in class, especially in the twice weekly 
chemistry labs.
Cyert is a strong advocate of the SACs. It
was one of the first things I did as dean [of 
GSIA], he added. It is the facultys belief 
that the usefulness depends on the quality of 
the students on them. When there is a good 
student leader, the group functions 
together. He also pointed out that the stu
dents need not be elected, and the depart
ment heads have the right to apppoint 
students.
Cyert does not feel the departments have 
been delinquent in their organization of 
their SACs this year and suggested that the 
students themselves could organize the 
SACs if they wanted.
Cyert ended cautiously, In past years the 
SACs have been generally useful.
CivE joins honor society
hamu b0o 1utmC Mue.mb 1ud1
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur x
in criminal activity every year during the 
holiday season. The Christmas season is a 
high crime period, he said, and there is a rise 
in purse snatchings and muggings. Fadzen 
warns students to be cautious in the Oak
land, Shadyside, and Squirrel Hill areas dur
ing the evening hours always, but especially 
during this time of year.
He also cautions students to be alert at all
times and to be careful not to leave valuables 
in the open. This may bean invitation, he 
commented. He suggested that it would be 
wise to have a partner when walking at 
night and to avoid secluded areas.
Specific places to beware of are Oakland, 
Shadyside, Squirrel Hill, and the bridges on 
Forbes Avenue and near Schenley Park, Fad
zen said.
SHARE THE COST OF LIVING.
BWl MC MTl gslfUgA UgAUlf HCUlMt:
THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED AS A PUBLIC SERVICE.This demonstration of at least one students opinion appeared in Skibo last week. The 
students responsible, whose names are unknown, earned 30C from the venture.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanDecember 7, 1982
Questions concerning this scholarship 
can be answered by contacting the Depart
ment of Military Science, 2nd Basement 
Margaret Morrison, Extension 2205/2196. 
In addition, a forum will be conducted in 
BIO Margaret Morrison 2nd Basement on 
December 8, 1982.
The Army Officer Commissioning pro
gram at CMU is offering three and two-year 
scholarships for freshmen and sophomore 
students. As in the past, these scholarships 
are open to all full-time freshmen and 
sophomores regardless of whether they are 
currendy participating in the Officer Com
missioning program.
The scholarship covers full tuition, books 
and supplies, lab fees, and in addition pro
vides the student with a $100 per month 
stipend. Students may continue graduate or 
professional schooling after comissioning if 
they desire.
The application period for freshmen is 
between 15 January and 15 April 1983. For 
sophomores it is between now and 15 
March. Applicants for either scholarship 
should contact the Department of Military 
Science at the earliest opportunity to make 
arrangements for completion of the medical 
portion of the scholarship application.
A COLLEGE 
GRADUATES 
IDEAL 
CHRISTMAS GIFT
A gift certificate for a Profes
sionally Prepared, Highly Effec
tive and Personalized RESUME. 
Designed and printed on Elec
tronic Word Processing equip
ment, with high quality printer. 
No one should enter todays job 
market without the best market
ing tools. We have 15 years 
experience and are experts in 
the employment field. Special 
rate of $39.95 including copies. 
For more info, call: MartgoAndrews Resume Service, 391- 
3232.
ROTC offers scholarships
Pittsburgh auditions will be held Tuesday, December 14,1982,12:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. at the 
Meiodia Performing Arts Center, 634 Penn A/e
For more information contact Opryland Entertainment Dept 
2802 Opryland Dr Nashville TN 37214 615/889-6600 ext 4343
Larry Harmon demonstrates glass blowing techniques in his lab in Mellon Institute.
Development officer named
Robert L. Dey has been appointed senior 
development officer at CMU.
In the newly-created position, Dey will 
plan and direct the universitys local and 
national corporate and foundation relations
Correction
In the Fall issue of Dossier, we incorrectly 
credited a drawing. The artwork on page 15 
was done by Smith Huntchings, not Mike 
Mangiafico, as stated in the Table of 
Contents.
programs, according to Alvin P. Brannick, 
vice president for development.
Dey most recendy was executive director 
of development for Eisenhower College of 
the Rochester Institute of Technology. He 
was formerly a United Way executive in 
Maryland and New York, and a public 
affairs and development officer at the Uni
versity of Rochester.
Dey, a native of Rochester, holds a bache
lors degree from the University of Roches
ter. He studied law at the College of Law 
and Jurisprudence of the State University of 
New York at Buffalo.
wanted to be part of a university with 
research programs like CMUs.
It would be a good idea, Harmon sug
gested, to have a course or some type of 
program in glassblowing for graduate stu
dents here so they could learn to make 
things for themselves. This skill could be 
important, he explained, because in a small 
lab, or company that doesnt have a glassblower, work would have to be sent out. The 
ability to do more minor jobs would save 
time and money.
Harmons glassblowing is not like the 
type you see done in mails around Christ
mastime. The first thing done to a piece in 
the shop is to heat the glass to around 1200 
to 1300 degrees Celsius. It is then shaped 
using tools, blowing and spinning on a 
lathe.
When the shaping is finished, the piece 
must be allowed to cool slowly, otherwise it 
will shatter. Finally, the glass is baked in a 
closed chamber overnight, and is ready in 
the morning.
Harmon is a craftsman and all of his work 
is done precisely. After all, what good is a 
100 ml flask that is actually 102 ml big?
Application achievement, extracurricular 
activities and leadership potential are the 
key factor in selecting winners. Historical 
data reveals that at least 50% of those that are 
nominated for the scholarship actually win 
it.
By STEVE WINAWER
Tartan Staffwriter
Very recendy, CMU added glassblower 
Larry Harmon to the faculty, who arrived 
early last month from the University of Ken
tucky where he ran the glassblowing shop.
The glassblowing shop at CMU is located 
in Mellon Institute, Room 116. Contained 
in the shop are many interesting projects 
Harmon is currendy working on. Accord
ing to him, the shop is "like a carpenters 
shop for scientists.
Most of the work done at the shop is for 
graduate students or professors. The glassblowers job involves both modifying exist
ing pieces of equipment and fabricating 
new pieces to the specifications of the user.
The shop rate for CMU users is about $20 
per hour, whereas if one was to go to a 
company like Coming the price would be 
double or triple that.
Harmon started out his career as an engi
neering major at Akron University, where 
he took his first glassblowing course from 
the chemistry department. From there he 
trained as an apprentice to a glassblower for 
BF Goodrich. He came here because he
Opryland show park, in Music 
City. USA. is looking for sev
eral hundred of the best young singers, dancers, 
conductors, musicians, stage managers and tech
nicians for our 1983 season of I've entertainment 
We'll produce a dozen, different musical 
theater shows every day. and we want first-rate 
professional performers and technical'personnel 
who know their crafts and want to work hard for 
top directors and choreographers
The competition is stiff, but 
the rewards are excellent, 
good pay. experience and exposure, includ
ing performance opportunities on mapr 
broadcast productions and the Nashvitle Net
work nationwide cable television network.
Your first step up to the stages of Music City 
is your Opryland audition You must be at least 
16 to work at Opryland So if you know you're 
good, come show us

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Behind the Iron Curtain: seeing the real Russia
By LESLIE WEINBERG
Special to the Tartan
We arrived in Moscow almost numb after 
a seventeen hour plane trip and two hours of 
security harassment. Baggage in Helsinki, 
raincoats detained at customs, they took us 
not direcdy to our hotel but to a Bolshoi 
Ballet welcoming performance.
As expected, the Bolshoi was an impres
sive introduction to Russian culture. The 
technical perfection of the corps de ballet 
and the pure classicism of the choreography 
were magnificent. Children of twelve 
danced with the poise of twenty-five years. 
Ballet talent is one of the ways a young 
person in Russia can attain a level of status 
in society. At the age of seven or eight the 
dancers are chosen and cultivated in private 
schools where they do nothing but breathe, 
sleep and dance. The select few who make it 
are considered in the upper ranks of society 
and given special privileges.
I thought there werent supposed to be 
ranks in the U.S.S.R. That was the first of 
many misconceptions I had about the Soviet 
Union. We wondered about Russian guides 
who were better dressed and groomed than 
the average citizen. We had read about spe
cial stores for special people and we began 
noticing slight class distinctions, like a 
Gucci leather bag carried by one of our 
guides.
The tourists also had their own special 
stores with merchandise far superior to any
thing we saw in Russian stores. These 
shops, known as the Beriozka, sold laquerware, fine cloths and furs, and of course 
black caviar and fine Russian Vodka. There 
was tight security to prohibit Russian citi
zens from entering these stores. They only 
accepted hard foreign currency. So our dol
lars came in handy since the Beriozka shops
Assassination lecture
were the only stores we found selling any
thing of quality.
The ghost of Stalin also permeates the air 
of Downtown Moscow. Huge murals of his 
face appear on the sides of buildings with 
tiny workers in the background. All the bill 
boards and art decorating the city are of a 
political nature. Propaganda is the only art 
form. Posters of Brezhnev were also fre
quent, a lean handsome and young ficti
tious representation.
A good way to learn about Moscow is to 
wander around through the city alone. Me 
and my shadow, a civilian with an arm
band, went for several walks. I couldnt help 
feeling that Big Brother was always there. 
One day I entered my hotel room to find the 
headset of my tape recorder had been dismanded. Another time I received a phone 
call asking if I would be in my room that 
afternoon. When I said, yes, a click and a 
buzz were my reply. Subdety is not among 
the finer attributes of Russians.
Perhaps the most interesting experience I 
had in Moscow was a visit to the local zoo. 
We happened to be lost in the city after 
taking a subway. No one would speak to us 
for fear of being seen, so we wandered aim
lessly until we found th^ incredible zoo. To 
me, animals in the cramped pens were a 
reflection of the people I saw walking 
around the city. Glum faces in confined 
spaces. The worst sight was the caged dogs. 
How could it be that dogs were in a zoo? Yet 
the children gathered around the mutts in 
awe. I thought of my golden retriever at 
home, wishing there was some way to 
explain.
The common Russian on the street knew 
two English words: dollars and jeans. They 
wanted dollars to trade on the black market 
in exchange of 6 times the official exchange
rate. If I had lived up to a true blooded 
American capitalist I would have sold my 
jeans for at least one-hundred dollars. How
ever, I wouldnt let them get away with such 
hypocrisy.
The Russians have their own stores. On 
the western side of Red Square stands the 
magnificent Gum department store. Its Vic
torian facade with colorful awning and 
neady arranged windows inticed my Ameri
can shopping instinct. However all such
illusion quickly vanished upon entering its 
drab and cluttered interior. It was reminis
cent of an indoor flea market with long lines 
of aggressive Russians waiting to get to the 
bacus. There was little to buy and it was 
displayed in heaps which people rummaged 
through. The merchandise in the Gum 
showed clearly that the Russians have 
chosen guns over butter.
On the southern edge of Red Square 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur xS
Author cites evidence disputing accepted account
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Author David Lifton, on tour to promote 
his book, Best Evidence, gave his first lecture 
of the year at CMU, on November 22. That 
date, which marked the nineteenth anniver
sary of the assassination of President John F. 
Kennedy, was symbolic for Mr. Lifton
 because Best Evidence presents the thesis 
that Kennedys body was surgically altered 
on its way from Dallas to Bethesda.
Mr. Lifton, who graduated from Cornell 
University with a B.S. in Engineering Phys
ics, became intrigued by the Kennedy assas
sination when he saw a film of the shooting 
taken with a home movie camera by a Dallas 
clothing manufacturer named Zapruder. 
The backward snap of Kennedys head told 
this physics major that the bullet couldnt 
have come from behind, said Lifton. 
Physics cant be wrong. Lifton showed 
the Zapruder film accompanied by a sound 
track of Dan Rather.
Once he became interested, Lifton began 
an investigation of his own, gathering evi
dence from FBI documents, the Warren 
report, and individuals who had been part
of the chain of events which were set in 
motion by the Secret Service after Kennedy 
was shot. What bothered Lifton the most 
were the discrepancies in the autopsy reports 
filed first in Dallas and later in Bethesda. 
The Dallas autopsy report noted a wound 
about the size of an egg in Kennedys head. 
The brain was reportedly still inside. The 
autopsy report filed in Bethesda, on the 
other hand, noted a huge hole in Kennedys 
head. Most of the brain was missing.
Lifton uncovered other discrepancies. 
Kennedys body left Dallas wrapped in 
sheets; it arrived in Bethesda in a zippered, 
plastic body bag. Before leaving Dallas, the 
body was placed in a bronze ceremonial 
casket weighing approximately 1000 lbs. In
Bethesda, the body was removed from a 
plain shipping casket which weighed about 
60 lbs.
Because different autopsy reports exist, 
Lifton considers the Kennedy assassination 
a play with two Act Is. He maintains that 
President Kennedys body was surgically 
changed in order to make what was actually 
an entrance wound seem like an exit w'ound. 
Although he is reluctant to draw any con
clusions about Lee Harvey Oswalds invol
vement in the assassination, he believes that 
the evidence of an interrupted journey (from 
Dallas to Bethesda) and an intercepted body 
imply that false links were created to indi
cate that the man in the building [Oswald] 
shot the man in the car [Kennedy].
Royal fillies visit Philly
^ppizan stallions strut their stuff.photo by John Cantine
w JOHN CANTTNE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
1982 marked a special event in the world 
of horsemanship. For the first time in 18 
years, the Spanish Riding School of Vienna 
brought its world-famous Lippizaner stal
lions to America in a three-city tour that 
included New York, Philadelphia, and 
Washington.
The Spanish School, founded by the 
Archduke Charles of Austria in the sixteenth 
century, got its name from the fact that the 
horses used in the school were descended 
from Spanish stallions. They were bred for 
the school near the town of Lippica, Aus
tria, from whence the name Lippizan 
derives.
When most people think of the Spanish 
Riding School, they think of the unique and
powerful Schools Above the Ground. Deve
loped in the Middle Ages as movements 
designed to destroy an enemy, the high leaps 
and kicks have been refined into one of the 
most amazing gymnastic displays ever 
performed.
Though the Spanish School performed 
the Schools Above the Ground in its Ameri
can tour, it prides itself more on the ensem
ble work in the movement known as the 
Quadrille. Eight riders split into two groups 
of four, and the groups perform intricate 
maneuvers and formations as mirror images 
of each other. Refined over years of practice, 
and possible only through a close rapport, 
almost a melding, between man and horse, 
the Quadrille is a show of rare beauty, one 
that non-riders can enjoy as much as riding 
expats.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanDecember 7, 1982
U:rbr0b1 em1parRme
Friends and foes of nukes have differing perceptions
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
On Friday, December 3rd, Dr. Richard 
Eiser of the University of Exeter hosted a 
psychology colloquium on Attitudes 
Toward Nuclear Technology: Polarization 
and Choice. Dr. Eiser, who received his 
bachelors degree from Oxford and his Ph.D. 
from the London School of Economics, 
addresses the issue of opposing perceptions
of nuclear power risk.
Attitudes opposing nuclear power have 
been increasing dramatically, especially fol
lowing the scare at Three Mile Island over 
three years ago. The question of why peo
ple feel the way they do wasnt considered 
up until a few years ago; the issue [of nuclear 
power] wasnt exciting to the public, said 
Eiser. He stressed that there is more to peo
ples perceptions of nuclear power than risk.
Investment Club meets
By LEE SHEPARD
Special to the Tartan
Last week was joint venture week 
between the Investment Club and AIESEC. 
Each club attended the others meeting, and 
to conclude the festivities a party was held 
Friday night.
On Wednesday, the members attended the 
weekly AIESEC meeting. Headed by Sean 
McKaffney, AIESEC resembles a corpora
tion and this enables people to gain practi
cal experience in handling and making 
management decisions. After reviewing the 
club, McKaffney introduced a sp>ecial 
speaker, I.S. Tuba.
Tuba is from United Technology Center, 
Inc. He has travelled extensively around the 
world and has experienced communism, 
socialism, and capitalism. Of them all, he 
favors capitalism. Tuba spoke about 
increasing the interaction and information 
transfer between engineers worldwide. 
Among his plans is a hall of fame for engi
neers which will be eventually located in 
Pittsburgh.
At the weekly Investment Club meeting 
held last Thursday night, President Cutler 
gave an overview of the clubs individual 
goals. Investment knowledge is a must for 
everyone, especially CMU students, said 
Cutler. The members then viewed a short 
animated film portraying a mythical com
pany that went public (sold stock) on the 
New York Stock Exchange to raise capital. 
Next a seminar on stock options was given 
by Wayne CutJer and David G us tin.
Basically, stock options allow an investor 
to control large amounts erf stock with small
amounts of money. This is known as 
leverage.
There are two different types of stock 
options: a put option which gives the right 
to sell 100 shares of a certain stock at a 
certain price, called the striking price within 
a specified p>eriod of time; and a call option, 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur xx
Studies on peoples attitudes concerning 
nuclear p>ower in countries including Great 
Britian, the Netherlands, and Austria have 
suggested that peoples estimate of what 
other people think colors their attitudes, 
said Eiser. As you become more opposed to 
an issue, you think that are people are more 
opposed to an issue, you think that are peo
ple are more opposed, and vice versa. A 
study done in northwest England concern
ing the Windscale power plant proved 
that people in favor of and against nuclear 
power labelled their opponents negatively, 
using adjectives such as materialistic, 
elitists, emotional, alarmist, and illinformed.
When asked to pick specific areas on a 
questionaire which they felt were most 
important, subjects again used evaluative 
language in such a way to attach positive 
valves to their own side and negative values
to the other side, according to the social 
psychologist. Anti-nuclear subjects chose as 
their most important areas: restrictions on 
civil liberties, risk of nuclear terrorism, risk 
of military nuclear proliferation, and risk of 
serious nuclear accidents. Subjects who 
favored nuclear power listed : total energy, 
related hazard to health, total eneigy-related 
environmental damage, strength of U.K. 
economy, and the U.K.s ability to meet 
future demands.
Eisen feels that the attribution of labels 
enables us to discount the opposition. The 
use of language is very important function
ally for describing attitude differences. The 
Englishman concluded that attitudes on 
nuclear power are relevant to the extent that 
the issues warrant extensive research. The 
relationship between processes of selective 
attention for and against nuclear power 
should be explored, according to Dr. Eiser.
Running background jobs with TOPS-20
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffumter
I was tempted to write this on a 
typewriter.
It seems like everybody is on the computer 
for the last two weeks of school, writing 
papers, running statistics, and writing pro
grams. This is great, except that when more 
people are working at any one time, the 
load on the system goes up and makes 
response time slow. Sometimes really slow, 
other times outrageously slow.
Between ten a.m. and nine p.m., most of 
the systems are pretty busy. A lot of people 
doing a lot of things. During the final weeks 
of class, the computers are even busier. It can 
be frustrating as hell waiting 30 minutes for 
your lousy ten page report to Scribe, only to 
find that you forgot some insignificant right 
paren.
You could always work between mid
night and six a.m. when the load tends to be 
down to reasonable levels. Or, if you need to 
do something at normal times, you could 
take advantage of a couple system features 
that would allow you to do more than one
thing at a time.
Say you want to run Scribe. You type in 
Scribe, hit return, give it a file name to Scribe 
and it starts working. Type a couple control - 
cs and interrupt the program. Then, when 
youre back at the @-sign, type in CON
TINUE, (dont forget the comma after the 
command Continue, or youll be right back 
in the program you interrupted!), and when 
you see the @@-sign, typ>e in BACK
GROUND. Then type a return, followed by 
another return until youre back at the origi
nal @-sign.
This is called running a program (or 
fork) in background. You can check on 
your fork by typing In Forks. This will 
tell you what forks youre running, the 
name of it, its status (i.e. running or 
halted) and its number.
You can pick up your fork by typing 
CONTINUE and the fork number or name. 
In this case, CONTINUE SCRIBE would 
make my active fork Scribe again (that is, the 
fork Im actually using at the terminal; inter
acting with). Otherwise, the program will 
just continue to run in background, and
when its done running, youll get a message 
like SCRIBE WANTS TTY. This means 
you should CONTINUE SCRIBE so it can 
finish up. Its handy because while SCRIBE 
is running on one paper, you could be edit
ing another instead of just sitting there hop
ing it would hurry up.
Naturally, running things in background 
adds to the load factor, but so would your 
running it interactively.
Through the past semester, Ive covered 
everything from trying to tell you what Im 
trying to do to Xerox problems to IBM per
sonal computers. Next semester I hope to 
continue this column, first with a refresher 
in January followed by some advanced top
ics. On the other hand, Id really like to 
address questions from readers with general 
problems.
But Id have to hear what kind of prob
lems you are having! Think of something 
you DONT like doing on the computer, 
and Ill see if theres a way to do it better. All 
you have to do is type MS SEND AC1H@TOPSD (or TOPSB), hit return and fol
low the instructions. So lets hear from you.
8cm wud wm wmam
Complaints about Tech men, war authority consolidated
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffumter
In Bleak House, by Charles Dickens,. . 
.Whoops, I forgot I wasnt doing my Eng
lish paper now. Instead I am doing the Tar
tan article. Maybe I shouldnt even bother, 
since everyone on campus is too busy doing 
work to read stuff like this. Theyre even too 
busy to post the frivolous stuff on the Com
puter dub BBOARDS which so offended 
Mr. Czajkowski. And Im too busy to finish 
this introduction, so lets go on with the 
column. . .
30 YEARS AGO: December 9, 1952
Every Saturday the Morewood girls usu
ally sp>end half their dating time listening to
the Tech engineers spin their tales of woe 
concerning the heavy academic load they 
cany. If they really always have so much 
homework to do, where do they find the 
time to waste (their time and everyone elses) 
building snow walls?
Many Morewood girls were late for their 
1:30 classes and had to suffer with wet feet 
for three hours. If that is an example of the 
kind of male we now have at Tech, many of 
the men may find themselves with nothing 
to do on Saturday nights but build snow 
walls. Signed,
A sneezy Home Ec. 
40 YEARS AGO: December 8, 1942 
The banner headline is MANPOWER
COMMISSION TO CONTROL TECHS 
STUDENTS. At any other time this might 
be regarded as an ominous intrusion of BigBrother-like government, but since there 
was, after all, a war going on, it was reported 
that The Administration. . .is pleased that 
the centralization of authority for the con
trol over all man-and-woman-power-an 
authority that embraces and coordinates 
those activities until now independendy 
pursued by numerous armed forces, war 
industries, civil branches of Government,
Commission--has been announced by Presi
dent Franklin D. Roosevelts Executive 
order, providing for the most effective 
mobilization and utilization of the nations 
manpower,  transferring the Selective Ser
vice system to the War Manp>ow^r 
Commission.
Among the changes was an order forbid
ding all future enlistments into the armed 
forces and their reserves.
Another article announced that, due to 
the war emergency, they would make engiSelective Service, and the War Manpower neering courses available to women.Exploring the real USSR
lk,u1 1va:ar1mWhat I want on Dec. 25th
By Christopher Johnston
Dear Santa,
I wanted to write to you and assure you 
that I have pursued the ideals of a pious and 
clean minded son of a John Birchin' Ameri
can boy with Pavlovian dedica
tion, so that you will give me 
what I want for Christmas. But 
before you shower me with 
materialistic treasures, of which the more
specific items Ill presently mention, I have 
some questions to put to your wizened and 
hairy old face.
Some of my friends are saying that you 
dont exist And that even if you did exist, 
you use illicit animal labor to tow your 
sleigh, that you pay the elves below min
imum wage because they are a minority, 
that Mrs. Klaus is a battered wife who isnt 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur xx
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur h
stands Moscows most famous and splendid 
monument, the Cathedral of St. Basil. It was 
built by Ivan the Terrible in the I500s to 
celebrate his victory over the Kazans. Legend 
has it that Ivan blinded his architects so they 
could never create anything of such beauty 
again. The cathedral with its cluster of mul
ticolored Byzantine domes topped with gold 
leaf has come to be a symbol of Russia. To a 
westerner it is exotic and mysterious. While 
gazing at this structure it is easy to forget that 
Russias cathedrals are churches only in 
memory.
To the right toward the eastern side of
Red Square is a monument of far greater 
religious significance - Lenins Tomb. This 
imposing marble edifice contains not the 
body of American rock hero John Lennon. 
Rather, it houses the immortal spirit of the 
communist party. There is no God, but 
there is Lenin. As the great clock on the 
Kremlin tower strikes each hour, people 
flock to watch the big event, the changing of 
the guards. The scene is somewhat like 
Buckingham Palace, only the guards have 
slighdy different costumes. The red starred, 
brown belted toy soldiers kick their legs 
amazingly high as they goose step through a 
choreographed ceremony.

---------------------------------------------------

December 7, 1982The TartanPage 11
A cuddly tot's holiday plea to old St. Nickolaus
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur xS
even in NOW, and that you discriminate 
against Jews.
I responded by pointing out that they 
couldnt prove that they themselves existed, 
that reindeer dont depend on unAmerican 
oil, that elves are in fact handicapped people 
since theyre short and probably homosex
ual, (one never saw female elves until the 
1970s; it was better back in the old days, 
when elves were men, and women werent 
seen.) It keeps them off the welfare rolls.
Mrs. Klaus deserves to be beaten, since all 
she does is nag that youre out all night. I 
would advise you to beat her often, since 
thats the human ethic-hurt something and 
it will be nice to you. And as for the Jews, 
they got eight Christmass when we only 
have one. So if you would like to go on the 
Tonight Show and clarify some of these 
issues and silence these liberal types, Id 
appreciate it.
Anyway, heres what I want for Christ
mas, please take meticulous note of your list 
and check it twice, for if I dont get every
thing, Ill kill you. First of all, I want some 
nuclear missiles to protect my self-interests. I
figure if you can give Reagan the MX mis
siles and let him expect 15% of them to get 
destroyed by the Russians before he even gets 
to char broil the commie trash, you can at 
least give me one, which I can assure you Ill 
use.
Next, I want to be bigger and meatier, so 
that I can do things like play football and be 
viewed by my fellows as a true God of Amer
ica. That way I will also be able to back up 
what I say with threats of injury, so everyone 
will love me.
I would also like the power of judging the 
souls of my friends. I have lately become 
religious. I assume that the people I tried to 
scare the Billy Bee Geebers out of were going 
to Hell. I would like sound assurance.
Last, I want to make sure that yo dont 
give any toys to those narrow minded, opin
ionated, death-deserving, syphilitic, verbose, 
conservative, irreverent, gaudy, tasteless, 
redundant, sarcastic, and unfratemal people 
who make up 104% of our society. But dont 
send them coal or sticks or any other possi
ble heat sources, especially if theyre poor, let 
them freeze. You might assume that I am
heartless, but that really isnt true, Im really 
a liberal, sensitive guy. I believe it is O.K. for 
men to cry, I do it all the time.
Liberals like myself are becoming fewer 
every day, but I want you to know that I still 
embody the real age of enlightment, the 
1960s. As a result, please put marijuana in 
my stocking this year. As a grooving dude 
like yourself knows, dope brings people 
together, breaking down social barriers, and 
numbing otherwise damaging emotions 
that inhabit the realm of the uncool.
And so venerable grand sire, when you 
trundle through the harsh crystalline snow, 
and heave your bulky form into a seat that
demands that you conform to its frontiers, 
an imaginary sack of toys in the back-which 
will keep merchants in the black for another 
year, and to take off into the night-your 
reindeer slam dancing across the sky, 
remember that youre being tracked by 
NORAD and you and your sleigh could be 
destroyed by a heat-seeking missile at any 
moment, fired from an F-18 which is keep
ing the skys safe for democracy.
I wuv you Santa 
Lil Chris 
Tyke about Town 
Christopher Johnston is a sophomore in 
H&SS and is a columnist for The Tartan.
AI ES EC board gains Gulf rep
AIESEC-CMU welcomes three new 
members to its Board of Advisors: Jon 
Franks, Director for Recruiting and 
Placement-Gulf Oil Corporation; Timothy 
Kurtz, Director of Management ServicesMain Hurdman; and Walter Schmid, Direc
tor, Corporate Planning-H.J. HeinzInvesting in scholarships
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur xS
which is the right to buy 100 shares of a stock 
at a certain price.
For example, a November call on Abbott 
Laboratories with a striking price of 30 
recently traded at 7% per share. This means 
that for $762.50 an investor could buy the 
right to purchase 100 shares of Abbott stock 
for $30 per share. At the time, Abbott stock 
was trading for about $35 per share, so $5 of 
the options price is to make for the price
differential (intrinsic value) and the other 
$2% represents a time value for the option. 
Therefore, if the price of Abbott stock rises 
past 37% (30 + 7%) before the 3rd week in 
November (expiration date), the investor 
would make a profit. If the price did not rise 
above 37%, the investor would lost money, 
and if the stock were to drop below $30, the 
option would be worthless and the investor 
would lose 100% of his original investment. 
An option such as this expires on the first
Saturday after the third Friday in the expira
tion month.
President Cuder then went on to thank 
the anonymous donor who gave $100 to the 
clubs investment fund. The club is trying to 
raise $20,000 to provide a sufficient capital 
base from which to achieve a diversified 
investment portfolio, as well as sponsor 3 
$1000 scholarships per year for deserving 
high school students who submit an 
advanced research project.
Company. The members of AIESEC-CMU 
are looking forward to working with these 
business people.
Two other members have recently 
resigned from the Board. Virgil Hanson, 
Manager of Human Resources at Gulf Oil 
Corporation, resigned from the Board when 
he retired from Gulf Oil at the end of spring. 
Hanson joined the Board in 1976, the year 
AIESEC-CMU began, and had been an 
active member for the past six years.
Howard Spicher, Secretary of the H. J. 
Heinz Company Foundation, resigned in 
November. Spicher, a relatively new 
member of the Board, had served as advisor 
to the AIESECs fundraising committee and 
continues to be an enthusiastic supporter of 
AIESEC.
The members of AIESEC-CMU thank 
these men and all the Board members for 
their support of the organization and advice 
to its members.
Student Senate Agenda 
Dec. 7, 1982
1. Call to order. 7:00, Wherrett Room
2. Roll Call
3. Approval of the minutes
4. Audience Participation - All students are 
invited to address the Senate on any matter of 
concern to them.
5. Officers Reports
Dean Walter - Administration
Dean Cox - Administration
Nate Solano - Student Government President
Mark Marsella - SDC
Charlie Krafft - GSO
Gina Fleitman - UFO
Alexandra Kavotdakis - Senate Chairman
Jane lie Molloy - Senate Vice-Chairman
6. Senate Internal Committees
Rules
Academic Affairs
General Campus and Information
Finance
7. 'New Business
8. General Discussion
9. Announcements
10. Adjournment
THE SECONDS OF STUDENT SENATE 
30 NOVEMBER 1982
In the next to last meeting of the Student Senate for the year of 
1982, the newly elected Senators joined the old on the Senate. In 
a battle of mostly acclamation, Alexandra Kavoulakis defeated 
no one, re-elected to Chairmanship unanimously. Likewise 
Janell Molloy enjoyed the cigar of victory as the re-elected 
Vice-Chairman, by acclamation. As to the committees, Senator 
John Pane ran unopposed, to become the Rules Chairman. As 
for the Finance Committee, Laura Sabadell retained her posi
tion as Chairman, undisturbed by opposition. For Academic 
Affairs, John Snyder once more climbed the greasy pole to 
re-elected status, unopposed. In the only contest of the night, 
Senators Rajan and Quarrie showed a spirited competitive flair, 
with Miss Linda Quarrie emerging triumphant to be the new 
Chairman of the General Campus and Information Committee. 
The torch has been passed to a new generation. ..
Else wise, the Senate joined in grieving the death of student 
Valerie Brandt, and voted to symbolize its condolences, by 
appropriating $50.00 for a book to be donated to the school, and 
$50.00 for a charity donation. The Senate is expecting to hear 
from all groups that havent registered their existence yet; for 
example, the Circle K club, affiliated with the Kiwanis, a com
munity service group, may be revitalized at the next meeting. It 
is VITAL for all groups, especially funded, to contaet the Rules 
Committee via the Skibo Box. From the Secretary, a fond good
bye to all my colleagues and Senatorial companions who have 
helped ease me into retirement from the electoral fun and games. 
Do not go gently into that night . .
Respectfully Submitted, 
Ralph M. Sherman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanDecember 7, 1982
AAUS conference: narrative of Princeton events
By LEROY and QUIGLEY (mostly 
LEROY)
Tartan Staffivriters
As you get out in corporate life, especially 
as a super smart CMU graduate, you will 
probably be asked to make business trips. If 
this possibility is presented to you, dont 
despair. It is the single biggest opportunity 
to have fun on the company; all you will be 
expected to do is give an account of your 
trip-mahe your bosses think it was a cost 
effective investment. Learn what your bosses 
want and fulfill their expectations. Could 
anything be easier? Heh, heh ask anybody 
involved in a working relationship.
Anyway, since the CMU student is our 
boss, that means you by virtue of the prepaid 
activities fee, here is our report. Hope it 
fulfills, we had a great time.
November 18; 11.-07 p.m.
After a couple weeks of enthusiastic plan
ning Quigley and I found ourselves in Pitts
burgh International Airport facing an hour 
wait because our plane to Newark had been 
delayed. Oh joy! An international airport 
terminal for an entire hour.
We explored the airport looking for inter
nationalness and found instead that the pin
ball and video game room closed at eleven 
oclock. All the bars were closed, and inter
nationalness was in the garage for the night. 
The only life outside of cleaning units was 
in the 24 hour cafe northeast of the main 
reception area, so we went inside.
The cafe was selling beer, but at stadium 
prices so we opted for coffee and cole slaw. 
Always thinking of that activities fee. At 
least thats what I chose, Quigley had the 
cottage cheese and cardboard milk. His 
ulcer, he explained. (After the chili dogs 
from the O and the stuff to put out the fire 
we started, the trip with his stomach must be 
a chapter from Dante.)
c . , Photo by LeroySam, the buanan. *
While we refueled I surveyed the area for photo opportunities. Man with vacuum cleaner. Hmm, looks good, like modem something, Ill call it art.It was something: the American Nightmare. The mans na.ne was Sam and he used to own a market in Aliquippa that his father started in 1915. The market was called 
Crystals before it went bankrupt; smce then Sam has worked for the airport. It was the blacks, Sam said. Not all of them, but enough old ladies were knocked down to put him out of business. Maybe a simplistic analysis, but its not the color of their skin, its the attitude that kills.11:48 p.m.Our exuberance temporarily subdued, Quigley and I grabbed our receipts docu
ment expenditures; its the second law of expense account traveling, the first law is st>end. We grabbed our receipts and ran to
for drinks. Bad luck. 
November 19, 2til a.m.
the loading gate. We made our 12.W flight 
and settled in.
It was my first jet airliner flight and I kept 
hearing Steve Miller singing from some
where.Quigley assured me that it wasnt the 
plane intercom since it was playing Crash 
and Bum by Pat Tavers. So both of us were 
jet flight neophytes. We joked about bar
becues until people in adjacent seats asked if 
we wanted to be the appetizers.
Faced with a hostile audience we quietly 
planned what to do once the plane landed. I 
learned the trick from politicians: plan for 
the future to forget about impending doom. 
It worked pretty well as ground vibration 
slid into air vibration back into ground 
vibration before I was certain we had left 
Pittsburgh. The big clue that we were air
borne came when the free drinks were 
dispensed. In Princeton, when we met the 
Student Senate contingent, who took an ear
lier flight, we discovered that they had to pay
In Newark, off the plane, and Im taking 
pictures like a dog marks where its been. 
Quigley pointed out that unlike a dogs refillable marker, we had a limited amount of 
film. Good advice, but oh so much to shoot. 
For example, the strange species of student 
from WVU who broke through the circle of 
people grouped around the baggage retrie
val device, jumped to the center and rubbed 
himself most peculiarly. He then rode 
around the conveyer belt on his back, I guess 
waiting to be claimed. No one did, though 
he got scattered applause. Some people like 
anything, even Skibo food, really.
Quigley and I claimed our baggage and 
made for the Hertz rental car agency. / 
wanted a photo of Quigley jumping ova 
something, but we bowed to the drillinstructor-like attendents disapproving 
stare. We grabbed the receipts and hopped 
into our brand new four door Toyota 
Corolla. After a quick pass through some
Bottle with a message inside found on beach by Quigley. 
Jamica.
Student conference held
The Midatlantic region of the American 
Association of University Students held a 
conference on November 19th and 20th on 
the various ways that the media affects uni
versity students at Princeton University, in 
Princeton, New Jersey.
The AAUS is the dubious offspring of the 
American Association of Universities of 
which CMU is a recent member. Member
ship is limited to Universities that are the 
centers of major research. The University of 
Pittsburgh is also a member institudon 
whose Chancellor augmented the nomina
tion of CMU into the organization. The 
idea of the AAUS is to advocate student 
rights in all issues relevent to them.
According to Jeff Katz,Executive Director 
of the AAUS, the idea erf the organization is 
to establish a network between schools, -like 
administrators do, and to exchange infor
mation and effective programs.
For instance, if your school wants to 
know what other schools are doing to com
bat draft registration, the AAUS can help 
you to exchange that information he said. 
Katz hopes to spawn interaction between 
schools by holding 5 more regional confer
ences throughout the U.S. and one national 
conference this year. We at the national 
office will also publish a newsletter, conduct 
research programs, and help with smooth 
interaction between AAUS members.
The Conference presented workshops for 
student government delegates on Friday, 
November 19. A few topics discussed were, 
Black Action Society, "How to fight a 
tuition increase, and Focus on Womens 
Concerns; a Model for Womens Involvement. That evening a party was provided 
for delegates by the AAUS. On November 
20, workshops were presented for the 
government officials on The Medias 
impact upon University students, directed 
by Student Media representatives, including 
these two reporters. An in depth description 
and analysis of how these workshops apply 
to CMU is included in other accounts on 
this page. Later that evening a buffet dinner 
was provided for those who could afford it
John Lord from Penn State University, 
Regional Chairperson of th AAUS, thought 
the conference was a success. He also elabo
rated on plans of the AAUS in the future. 
Wed like to strengthen the existing pro
grams and services that we are providing 
and I would like to see the National Confer
ence held in the mid-Atlantic region, in 
Washington, New York City, or even Pitts
burgh. If the National Conference were held 
jointiy at CMU and the University of Pitts
burgh, it could be easily run, he said.
Reactions to the conference from dele
gates were mixed. Cindy Tindell from Geor
getown University said, They had heat' 
ideas about the media and how student 
government officials can get things done. 
However, Connie Karagesorgis, also ol 
Gerogetown thought that too much 
emphasis was on Student Government and 
Media. They should have had more on stu
dent life. Nate Solano, President of Student 
Senate and a CMU delegate, said, I didnt 
think it was very well planned. I was at a 
better conference last summer.
part of Newark that looked strangely like 
parts of the Strip district we turned towards 
Long Branch Beach. Princeton was only an 
hour and half away and we had about seven 
hours to get there, so why not?
One reason could have been the freezing 
temperature, but the ocean never freezes and 
we found a bottle washed up on the beach. It 
even had a message in it. The message gave 
directions to a treasure buried exactly in the 
center of the cut. You thought physical 
plant was always digging up CMUs anti
quated steam lines. So did I, but Quigley 
and I now know different.
This article is being written from the ter
race of a Jamaican hotel overlooking a bril
liant white beach while I sip from the best 
gin r tonic I have ever tasted. Yipes! The gin 
b tonic just changed to an Iron City beer and 
the beach to a blank sheet of typing paper. 
Someone give me some coffee, quick!
The message had to be read through a 
minor and after deciphering it} Quigley and 
I found a phone number and an invitation 
to call collect. We did, the other part) 
refused the charges, but we wont give up 
that easily. Its worth a try; they might know 
something about Jamaica.
9.-03 a.m.
Quigley and I arrived in Princeton feeling 
the bit of deja mi. I was driving, Quigty 
sleeping when I crossed the Carnegie Lab* 
where Princetons crew crew trains and 
races. Holy technocrats, that man sowed 
worker dollars everywhere. Then we passed 
the Frick Laboratories; like father like son.
Princeton is huge and beautiful. Two 
hundred acres filled with examples of 
Gothic, Victorian, ancient Greek, and earl) 
American architecture support an under 
graduate population of about 4400 student
Novemvbr1 ov ^

---------------------------------------------------

December 7, 1982The TartanPage 13 
    11 
Princeton Provost interview too
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur xR
and a graduate population of 1600 students. 
Quigley and I parked. It just occurred to me 
that I havent yet told you why we were in 
Princeton. Small oversight. The AAUS 
(American Association of University Stu
dents) held a three day conference at Prin
ceton to exchange ideas between different 
colleges on how to improve student life.
Underlying that noble intention was the 
effort to forge communication links 
between schools; we werent told why. Qui
gley reminds me, as I type this report, that 
we were told why on Sunday, but he doesnt 
remember either. CMU was invited to send 
representatives because we belong to the 
organization, though no one knows how. 
For one more big mystery, on Sunday, dur
ing the AAUS business meeting, the 
national officers informed us that Pitt and 
CMU were under consideration to be hosts 
for a national conference scheduled some
time in early 1983.
Friday was Student Senate day, Saturday 
Student Newspaper day, and Sunday was 
AAUS day. Quigley and I checked in, got 
the phone number and addresses of the Prin
ceton girls who were to be our gracious hosts 
for the weekend, and decided to explore the 
campus. We hit the student newspaper 
office, the student radio station, the compu
ter center, the administration building and 
the art museum. Yes, Princeton has its own 
art museum. Special exhibits that day 
included African art and a survey of Impres
sionism. It also featured one of Warhols 
Marilyn Monroes.
Another interesting feature of Princeton:
several schools, such as music, architectu
re,and art have their own libraries. Abun
dance seems to mark much of Princeton. 
Both the radio and newspaper offices had 
large amounts of state-of-the-art equipment 
and staffs that numbered over 200 students.
Quigley and I scored a great journalistic 
victory when we visited the administration 
building. Vice Provost Richard Spies gra
ciously granted us an interview. We covered 
a lot of ground during twenty minutes. 
Unfortunately, most of it is lost to the ages, 
because my house burnt last weekend, along 
with my notes and all of our carefully pre
served receipts. (Note: this excuse, although 
painfully true, should be used with discre
tion when explaining to bosses where all the 
money went.)
We remembered to ask Spies the five star 
question and his answer was Compare our
selves to CMU? Well, we consider Harvard 
and Yale to be our major competition, but 
when it comes to engineering we do look at 
CMU. Although he feels that computers 
are very important, he thinks that the cur
rent intense interest in them is a passing 
phase. Big concerns of Princetons adminis
tration now and in the future involve 
improving the social life on campus and 
easing minority tensions.
8:38 p.m.
As day turned to night, Quigley and I felt 
it our duty to check Princetons social scene. 
With that in mind we looked up our hos
tesses and put the question to them: what is 
there to do on the weekend in Princeton? I 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur RR
Minority concerns was a topic of discus
in at the AAUS conference in Princeton, 
J on November 20. Questions addressed 
ere the scope of newspaper responsibility
0 minorities, how those papers can increase 
iwareness of minority needs, and who in a 
ewspaper decides if a minority activity is 
ewsworthy.
The delegates decided that it was imporant to define the tension between the stulent newspapers and minorities, have 
lewspapers assign stories to minority stuents, and recruit their reporters from the 
ninorities.
The Tartan really hasnt taken any excesive responsibility toward the CMU minoriies. There exists on this campus an amazing 
ack of communication between blacks and 
vhites. This reportei sp>ent most erf his 
-MU experience assuming that whites were 
lot even allowed to attend any Spirit 
unctions. There are only 3 fraternities on 
ampus with black brothers. As a result, an 
11 black fraternity exists within the college 
ommunity. Theyre the guys that walk 
?round dressed in army boots and red 
weatshirts.
it can be agreed that we have a racial 
^oblem, it would be logical to assume that 
The Tartan could help bridge the existing 
?ap between CMU blacks and whites. But 
here are no blacks on The Tartan staff, not 
^use they are excluded, but because none 
13ve volunteered to write for the Tartan.
Perhaps The Tartan should recruit from 
he CMU minorities, but pierhaps the 
minorities should get involved with the Taran n their own. After all, The Tartan 
taesnt go out o its way to recruit from the 
vhite student population. There are no 
}uotas on this newspaper.
The people who decide whether or not a 
Minority concern is newsworthy are the edi0rswho are all white. There is a meeting 
n December 6 to elect next years editors, if
1 ac^s want to get involved with the paper, 
l0w *s big chance.
unication between the campus
Photo by Leroy
football in Princeton last week. Hot n heavy action like above should be expected.
vs. minorities?
College papers compared by students
College newspapers were a topic of dis
cussion at the AAUS conference in Prin
ceton, New Jersey on November. .20., 
Delegates discussed differences between 
daily and weekly college newspapers and 
how to improve both.
They agreed that a Daily college news
paper, such as Princeton Universitys Daily 
Pnncetoman, can have more student inter
action than a weekly, such as our own CMU 
Tartan. A daily can also act as a legitimate 
news source, presenting information hap
pening in the world, while a weekly can 
only print news of no great urgency, fea
tures, and opinion.
ANALYSIS
The Tartan suffers a lot since its not a 
daily. Accusations of it being full of nothing 
but opinion are not completely unfounded; 
but not completely true either. It has features 
on various issues and presents information
that is not immediately vital, but neverthe
less important, and it has plenty of opinion.
It may or may not cover issues objectively, 
it depends upon ones point of view, but this 
is a result of a larger problem, apathy. These 
reporters had the opportunity to visit the 
building in which the Daily Princetonian is 
housed. It has 3 floors erf that building itself. 
The Tartan has six small rooms. The 
Prince, as it is called, has better equipment 
than the Tartan, more financial support, 
and most importantly, a more dedicated 
staff and student body.
We have to admit that I didnt stick up for 
the Tartan, when the walls of the room in 
which a Princeton person was explaining 
the use of some excellent typesetting equip
ment to us in a production room lined with 
the certificates of Rhodes scholars who had 
been a part of that paper.
The better equipment and financial sup> 
port the Prince receives is something that is
to be expected of venerable institution such 
as Princeton as opposed to CMU which is 
relatively new. However, the student apathy 
is one thing that could change at CMU. The 
Prince has a staff of over 200 students on a 
campus that has only 4400 undergrads, the 
Tartan has a staff of under 50. The Pnnce 
charges students who want to receive it as 
their regular newspaper $15.00 per semester 
to have it delivered to their rooms, The 
Tartan has trouble giving away copies to 
people who need something to line their cat 
boxes with.
Students at Princeton seem to care about 
their newspaper,while CMU students really 
dont. Many pjeople complain about the 
quality of reporting that appears in the Tar
tan, nobody want to do anything about it. 
Which is not to say that CMU has as bad a 
newspap)er as Pitts or NYU, it just doesn't 
rank with the Ivy League. We have the tal
ent, but lack the ambition.
newspaper and the Campus administration 
was a topic of discussion at the AAUS con
ference on November 20 at Princeton, New 
Jersey.
Questions addressed included whether or 
not a student newspaper can be censored by 
the administration, whether or not the 
paper has a responsibility to the administra
tion or to the student body, or neither, and 
how can students effectively use the paper 
when in conflict with the administration.
Predictably, almost all conferees agreed 
that the newspaper shouldnt be censored by 
the administration, nor should it in any way 
control the papers editorial policy. One 
exception was New York Universitys 
Washington Square News, which has an 
administration appointed task force which 
reviews it. Last years staff was pretty bad, 
admitted News Editor Shaun Assael it was 
becoming all opinion. But were doing a lot
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur x5
Photo by Leroy
Leroy and Quigley relax in a restroom between seminars in Princeton.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanDecember 7, 1982
TUNE IN. . .
This Thursday Dec. 9 for
The Final 
Eclectic Radio
. . . a retrospect. 
Join Herb Stencil from 8 to mid. as he bids
_u^ay._a f ond_ _^e 11_.  _____________
Also next Thursday, Dec. 16 for
The 1st Annual Christmas Special
with Nate
featuring many celebrity guests 
and even a visit from
Santa Claus
The wonders of modern technology will 
bring you this special via the Miracle of 
3-D Radio! ! !
Pick up you 3-D Radio Packets now at the 
Skibo Information Desk 
Radio will 
Next Thursday 6-10 p.m. on a Special 
Edition of Baby Snakes with 
Chuck Farley.funded by your Activities Fee.
r *
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Pregnant? 
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621 -1988
AAUS wrap-up meeting.
Students censored?
Communication between the campus 
newspaper and the Campus administration 
was a topic of discussion at the AAUS con
ference on November 20 at Princeton, New 
Jersey.
Questions addressed included whether or 
not a student newspaper can be censored by 
the administration, whether or not the 
paper has a responsibility to the administradon or to the student body, or neither, and 
how can students effectively use the paper 
when in confict with the administration.
Predictably, almost all conferees agreed 
that the newspaper shouldnt be censored by 
the administration, nor should it in any way 
control the papers editorial policy. One 
exception was New York Universitys 
Washington Square News, which has an 
administration appointed task force which
reviews it. Last years staff was pretty bad, 
admitted News Editor Shaun Assael it was 
becoming all opinion. But were doing a lot 
better this year.
Many delegates decided that a student 
paper usually owes allegiance to whomever 
funds it. It serves the students if it is funded 
by their activities fees, or the adminstration 
if they are providing the funds. If supported 
by subscription, as is Princeton Universitys 
Daily Princtonian, it might cater to the 
views of its readership.
The delegates agreed that a student newpaper can affect administrative decisions if 
the campaign is orchestrated correctly.
ANALYSIS
In its idealic sense, the Tartan should paoStudent press: ideals vs reality
some sense what its readers will form an 
opinion on. If it were to cover what a great 
guy that its editors thought Cyert was every 
week, then that opinion might flow into the 
campus community.
The administration hasnt every really 
tried to control Tartan editorial policy, and 
it would be interesting to see how they 
would go about it. Since it is funded by 
activities fees, they couldnt financially 
threaten it, unless they were to deny staff the 
luxury of school financed trips like the one 
that enabled this reporter to writer this 
article.
The Tartan has been an effective tool for 
the students, some might say too effective, to 
use against the administration. The tuition 
rally and the resulting photo of protesting 
students on page one of the November 2nd 
issue of The Tartan scared the tuition board 
enough that the increase probably wont be 
19% next year. However, if the Tartan had 
reported on why the increase was warranted, 
and if the administration had been smart 
enough to stress justification of the increase 
more, the 19% tuition increase might be
FINALS WEEKS SPECIAL
December 6 - 17, 1962 
$1.00 LUNCH 
(with this coupon)
Soup, Sandwich, Dessert, Beverage 
(one each)
11:30- 1:30 
Lutheran University Center 
4515 Forbes Avenue 
One Coupon Per Person Per Week
activities fees, they couldnt financial 
threaten it, unless they were to deny staff th 
luxury of school financed trips like the om 
that enabled this reporter to writer thi 
article.
The Tartan has been an effective tool fa 
the students, some might say too effective, to 
use against the administration. The tuitioc 
rally and the resulting photo erf protestinj 
students on page one of the November 2it 
issue of the Tartan scared the tuition boan 
enough that the increase probably wont b 
19% next year. However, if The Tartan ha 
reported on why the increase was warranted 
and if the administration had been smai 
enough to stress justification of the increas 
more, the 19% tuition increase migh & 
reality.
AAU workshops
By LINDA QUARRIE
Special to the Tartan
One Saturday afternoon workshop at th 
recent Regional conference of the AAU 
was dedicated to the discussion of nations 
media and its response to university sw 
dents. Topics of interest were television 
impact cm political attitudes of the genen 
public and the universal influence of tele'1 
sion, and sensationalism in reporting stu 
Novemvbr1 ov 8zSR
Idealistically, The Tartan should pro
vide objective information slanted in favor 
of nobody, but in the past it has always 
taken the students point of view into 
account more than the administrationss. 
An example would be the way The Tartan 
covered the personal computing issue and 
the tuition rally. Theoretically, all opinion 
would stay on page 2, but often some bias 
slips into news stories themselves.
This bias also applies in the sense that 
what The
vide objective information slanted in favor 
of nobody, but in the past it has always 
taken the students point of view into 
account more than the administrationss. 
An example would be the way the Tartan 
covered the personal computing issue and 
the tuition rally. Theoretically, all opinion 
would stay on page 2, but often some bias 
slips into news stories themselves.
This bias also applies in the sense that 
what the Tartan chooses to cover dictates in 
some sense what its readers will form an 
opinion on. If it were to cover what a great 
guy that its editors thought Cyert was every 
week, then that opinion might flow into the 
campus community.
The administration hasnt every really 
tried to control Tartan editorial policy, and 
it would be interesting to see how they 
would go about it. Since it is funded by
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur x,
better this year.
Many delegates decided that a student 
paper usually owes allegiance to whomever 
funds it. It serves the students if it is funded 
by their activities fee or by the administration 
if they are providing the funds. If supported 
by subscription, as is Princeton Universitys 
Daily Princetonian, it might cater to the 
views of its readership.
The delegates agreed that a student newpaper can affect administrative decisions if 
the campaign is orchestrated correctly.
ANALYSIS

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
'Tooth of Crime" loses 
essage in sloppy music
,y TOM WOODLEY
'arum Staffwriter
The Tooth of Crime, a play with music 
owing at the Pittsburgh Laboratory 
eatre leaves you thinking that you couldK
- ve seen a very good production. Uniortutely, unoriginal musical compositionsF
d unpolished performance of these pieces 
lied the effectiveness of the play in a 
ightly disappointing show.
I Written by Sam Shepard, The Tooth 
1 (Crime is based in an imaginary culture of 
Bx:k stars and rock music, mixed with 
Irugs, crime, and the Mafia underworld,
i he aging and tired Hoss (G.W. Rooney) 
I as worked himself to the top of the rock 
I iarts by controlling territory and making 
I ie necessary marks and hits on previous 
lars.
I Hoss is ready to reap the benefits of his
 me and power when he notices that his I orld is not as stable as he believed it to be. I ie style is changing, the rules of the game 
le different, the friends are disappearing,
 id Hoss, being too old, cannot adjust to
 iese changes. Hoss is finally challenged by 
lie young, radical gypsy punk, Crow
(Douglas Pona) in a showdown waged with 
| yle and song, the winner of which will face
 ie new changes, inevitable with the future. I The life created by Shepard, upon which 
I ie play was set was extremely interesting 
I id unique. With this world of his, Shepard 
I cplored our own world, its iniquities and 
I rtues, and our beliefs in fame and its powI s. The play also displayed the necessity of 
I regression and change in life and the sub1 quern renewal and rebirth.
I The play also presented several fasdnating stage concepts. In one scene, Hoss sits at 
I interstage while a supporting actor per|>rms his thoughts for the audience. The 
lusidans on stage constandy fluctuated
 itween the role of actor and backgroundCFA opens program
one moment Hoss being aware of their pres
ence, the next minute, Hoss being blind to 
them.
Despite the personality and life of the tiny 
theatre, where many flaws can be oversha
dowed by the energy on stage, some prob
lems could not be ignored. Possibly the 
result of opening night jitters, the musical 
aspect of the play was not strong. Consistendy throughout the show, sour and 
untuned notes dimmed the feeling gener
ated by the story and the actors. Much of the 
significance of the story was lost through 
unclear vocals, as well. For instance, the 
batde scene between Hoss and Crow lost 
much of its interest and meaning because of 
gutteral, incoherent singing by the actors.
The Tooth of Crime was much more 
than just a showdown between two oppos
ing forces. It was intended to be a statement 
about our culture and attitudes by showing 
Hosss opposition, acceptance, and finally 
despair over the change in his culture. Had 
the play been slighdy more polished and 
ironed out, a truly chilling climate could 
have enveloped and lingered with the 
audience.
photo by Beth Bangor
Drumming up enthusiasm was a member of CMUs Jazz Ensemble, who played at the 
Ballroom last Thursday. ____________________________________________________________
Chosen uses cinema to probe characters
By ERIC PATTERSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Though the stage is almost always the 
most effective way for actors to convey the 
feelings and motivations of a plays charac
ters, sometimes a work must be enacted 
beyond the limitations of the
jj* The Chosen is an outstanding
example. Based on Chaim Potoks book, this film version is an excellent 
character study. It is the story of two boys on 
the verge of deciding what to do with their 
lives, while trying to cop>e with the philoso
phical differences between their fathers that 
put a huge strain on their friendship.
Lacking the mobility of cinema, a stage 
version would be woefully inadequate. 
When Director Jeremy Paul Kagan shifts 
his viewer from an encompassing view of a 
wedding scene rich in Hassidic tradition, to 
the home of one boy, to the home of the 
other boy, to the college they both attend, he 
brings about a completeness to the character 
that could never be accomplished on stage. 
Because the characters backgrounds 
become more clearly defined, The Chosen 
becomes a movie more worth seeing.
ine Arts minors aid mix of disciplines
PAM SNYDER
fWtortan Staffwriter
Picture yourself in a small unfamiliar 
|>wn after just taking the wrong exit off of a 
ajor highway. You can see the road that 
3u want to get back on to, but you cant 
to figure out how to do it. Ingeniously, 
Ju stop at a gas station for directions and 
ive the answer, You cant get there from 
e, sonny!
Prior to the 1982-1983 academic year, a 
1U student seeking a minor in fine arts 
ay have found himself in this very same 
|tuation  but no longer! The connecting 
ad was put through this fall in the form of 
^^disciplinary programs from the Colfge of Fine Arts.
These interdisciplinary programs include 
^nes of seven minors in Art, Architecture, 
J'chitectural History, History of Arts, 
lusic, Theatre Arts and Visual CommuniJtions. According to Akram Midani, Dean 
the College of Fine Arts, each minor is 
Me up up three different types of courses: 
^requisite, required and elective. 
Prerequisite courses allow the student to 
pelop a level of proficiency, and elective 
purses urge the student to tackle more 
uense work in areas of special interest. 
verV minor in this program consists of a 
llnimum of six courses or 34 units.
prerequisite stage in which a student 
iSesses his own self interest is an integral 
art f the fine arts minor. These fundamencurses can be taken by any student inter
red in dabbling in a given area without 
Pairing that student to commit himself to
a minor. In fact, there is a whole selection of 
elective courses in fine arts which coexist 
with the minors and are open to all students.
Dean Midani explained that the main 
idea behind the fine arts minors is to blend 
students of different disciplines who can 
leam from each others different modes of 
individual thinking. The program builds 
cm increasing levels of intensity, but moves 
at a "nice relaxing pace which takes a stu
dent gradually into intensive studies.
When the CMU student interested in 
minoring in fine arts leams that nearly all of 
the courses he will be taking are for fine arts 
majors rather than sp>ecialized for non
majors, he may become hesitant and begin 
asking questions like: Am I talented 
enough to handle this?, Do I need to audi
tion or submit a portfolio? and What is 
meant by Permission of Instructor Needed
 can I even get registered in these courses?
Dean Midanis answer to these questions 
was that the fine arts minors should be 
tackled as an amiable and intellectual 
challenge, rather than just to breed frustra
tion. Auditions and portfolios are not 
required; however, it is possible, after a cer
tain number of units which vary by depart
ment, for a student to submit a portfolio or 
audition in order to be evaluated for admis
sion to that department.
This article was originally suggested 
because of a general undertone on campus 
about problems with obtaining the fine arts 
minors. When questioned about the validity 
of this undertone, both Dean Midani and 
Dean Penna, Assistant Dean of the College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences who is
very involved with the interdisciplinary pro
grams, expressed that they have not been 
confronted with many problems. In fact, 
only one curriculum-related problem has 
arisen. This problem is within the theatre 
arts minor and is supposedly being ironed 
out p>resendy. Any other problems have 
been to scheduling which is common in a 
school such as Carnegie Mellon with so 
many required courses on all levels.
Dean Penna has a suggestion for all stu
dents: if you are having problems with a fine 
arts minor  communicate them! He is 
more than willing to sit down with an indi
vidual and straighten these problems out. 
So, if you still finding yourself on the wrong 
road and unable to reach your destination
 speak up! The directions are available 
and maybe you are just asking the wrong 
people.
Reuven Mol ter and Danny Saunders are 
two Jewish boys living in 1940 Brooklyn. 
The two relate to each other well, yet their 
fathers feel the need to hold their friendship 
under close scrutiny. The differences of 
opinion between the two fathers over reli
gious matters are the reasons for this 
distrust.
Dannys father, a Hassidic Jew, believing 
in strict tradition, constandy stresses the 
importance of thought, of living life 
through ones soul. To him, words are 
incapable of describing this inner world.
Reuvens father is quite the op>posite. He 
writes articles analyzing Jewish scriptures, 
something Dannys father objects to as a 
matter of doctrine. The Torah and the Tal
mud, he feels, can only be understood by the 
heart, not by the head.
This tense, dogmatic argument becomes 
only kindling compared to the fiery dispute 
that results over the question of a Jewish 
state. How this argument puts a strain on 
the two boys friendship, and how the two 
cope with a problem as diverse as the differ
ences between Orthodox Jews and 
Reformed Jews, is one of the many interests 
erf this movie.
The main interest of this film, however, is 
how these two will decide what to do with 
their lives. Reuven, as he spends more time 
in Dannys environment and begins to 
investigate his religion much more in depth, 
finds the thought of becoming a rabbi much 
more appealing than before. Yet, he 
becomes frustrated many times with the 
strictness of thought and tradition he will 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur xc
Luo1 1oaud RupF o0 Noub5md
by MICHAEL SCHMITS 
and ARTHUR MUHK
Tartan Staffwriten
The Stray Cats return to the Stanley 
Theater on December 8. This will be the 
Massapequa, N.Y. trios second appearance 
in Pittsburgh this year. Since their debut 
here, which sold only a thousand tickets, 
their American following has grown 
dramatically.
The Stray Cats (Jim Phantom on drums, 
Lee Roker playing stand-up bass, and 
singer-guitarist Brian Setzer) started per
forming their rockabilly in New Yorks
clubs during the late 70s. Not satisfied with 
their limited popularity, the band headed to 
England on a lark. They got gigs at small 
clubs and were greeted with surprising suc
cess. Two hit British releases later the group 
decided to return home.
Since then, they have been touring the 
States continously and their only American 
release, Built For Speed, has climbed to the 
number eight position on the charts. By all 
accounts, their first appearance at the Stan
ley was simply electric and we can expec t an 
even more exciting show tomorrow night 
with a crowd more familiar with the music.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanDecember 7, 1982
Constant change defines originality of The Core
The Core members indude: (bottom) Kurt Resch, (1 to r) Ken Grisafio, Tony Miles, Tom 
Chock la, and Brook Duer. Not shown is Marc Reisman, their manager.
The Core, a local band who recently 
opened for The Clash at CMU, has reached 
a level of stability that only constant change 
and re-definition can produce. Having 
experienced alterations not only in their per
sonnel, but in the direction of their music as 
well, The Core has settled in with four regu
lar members, a manager, a road crew, and a 
style thats all their own  with a little help 
from the flavorings of reggae, new wave, 
rhythm n blues, and jazz.
The band has just released the single, 
World Citizenship, which is regularly 
played by WRCT and also WYDD-104. 
They have just completed a mini-tour in 
Michigan; and in the spring, they hope to 
release an EP of all new material.
In the following interview, The Core talk 
about themselves, their goals and their 
music. The interview, synthesized from sev
eral conversations was conducted by Susan 
Petrie, Tartan Entertainment Editor. Tartan: What are your primary influences? 
Tony Miles (lead singer): My influences 
vary. My strongest influences are right here! 
(points to buttons on his shirt of various 
vocalists). I like Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra
 I like crooners, too. Alphalfa on the "Lit
tle Rascals was a crooner. It ranges, you 
know.Tartan: So you guys really consider your music to be a real mixture?
Kurt Resch (lead guitarist): Oh yeah, its a 
mixture of everything  thats why we call 
it core music.
Miles: We like to call it reggae rock cause 
its got a strong reggae influence and a rock 
influence.
Resch: Its just a fusion. . . theres just so 
much we can do now.
Brook Duer (bassist): I think the music is 
just as new or newer as any other band that 
operates on this level. The reason why the
reggae thing comes in is because those guys 
have the same influences as we do  were 
going back to the same thing, Sam Cooke, 
Marvin Gaye.
The people from Jamaica created a really 
good filter for interpreting folk songs into a 
pop structure.
I think the reason were so successful in 
this town is that were creating something 
thats basically more working class than any 
other form of new music thats going on in 
this town. Its a lot more communicative to 
the average person.
Resch: People of any age can get into this 
music, you know? It doesnt hurt your ears 
to listen to it, and its got a meaning to it... 
not a bunch of crap. Its not a fad  thats 
one thing its not.
Duer: The thing that I enjoy is to be in a 
band that has such a clear expression of their 
ideas  that total clarity of expression. You
can have great conceptions in your band 
and have all these really advanced ideas, but 
youre not going to live them out at the 
Decade, or Lous, or some litde bar; you 
have to be realistic about what youre going 
to get across in that exact setting.
This band isnt going to try anything that 
isnt going to be able to come across in this 
kind of atmosphere, and I also think thats 
why we have such a wide range of appeal  
to older people, too. . . you have to be 
attuned to where you are.Tartaru I had asked Kenny this before, but. 
. do you think there are any political roots in this band?
Resch: I think there are some political roots 
in it, but its not straight out or forward... or 
harsh. We do say stuff about our system, but 
its just our views. Were not really trying to 
tell people how to live, you know.
Miles: Were not political, but were serious.
. . Lets keep peace on this earth so that our 
children can grow. Teachers teach this 
world, so teach them good things. I want 
these people out here in the United States to 
know that The Core is strictly seriousness 
(laughter) and were coming out with an 
impact thats totally foreign to any eyes that 
enhance it. . .
The feelings that go through the room an 
like neutron bombs hitting Cupids bow 
and making love vibrations.
Tartan: Thats cool... do you think yourea spiritual band?
Miles: Oh yeah, were very highly spirited. 
We are an emotional band; we deal with the 
emotions  thats our job. And its nothing 
fake; its for real... cause everybody out there 
is somebody  somebody. . .Tartaru How would you describe tht response to the new single?
Duer: Its been really good. I think that 
World Citizenship it probably one of the 
best pop songs to come out of this area 
People are really picking up on that sheet 
energy thats coming off that record, and the 
production by Marc Reisman really did ii 
justice.
Airplay has helped a lot... its a lot of fut 
to play a gig and to hear people react in 
World Citizenship  they know the 
record now and thats a nice feeling... Tha 
piece of vinyl has a positive statement andi 
is a great pop song.
Id just like to say, for the record, here, 
think everybody should check out WYD1
 they will play anything you want to heat 
.their station manager is a pioneer; he 
really out in the forefront of things. Tartan: Ken said that the band has nevt sounded better. Do you agree with that? 
Duer: I didnt come see the band very mud 
before I joined it, so I dont really know...
Novemvbr1 ov page 1!
Great Moments 
in the history of hoir
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech "If 
this wa$ feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals
and guvs.
PRECISIONHAIRCUT COLOR(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NOAPPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR ALL STYLES 
$25.00
Mon.. Tues.. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
(sflmtCNfCOlTMRS.
PRECSON HAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
687-3500 Oakland Post OfficeNO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
r > 3415 FORBES AVENUE
OAKLAND 
Next to Arbys 
681-2202 or 681-2203
Pizza
JUNIOR 
SMALL 
MEDIUM 
LARGE 
X LARGE
LARGE SELECTION OF EXTRAS__
PEPPERONI MUSHROOMS - SAUSAGE - 
GREEN PEPPERS - ONIONS - ANCHOVIES 
BLACK OLIVES - EXTRA CHEESE - 
HOT PEPPER RINGS
Hoagies
ITALIAN 
HOT SAUSAGE 
MEAT BALL 
CAPICOLLO 
STEAK
MUSHROOM STEAK 
HAM/CHEESE ' 
ROAST BEEF 
SALAMI
QUARTER POUNDS
Visit Our Bar & Dining Lounge
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
Free Delivery
Business Hours
Sundays 2 00 PM - 2:00 AM 
Mon.  Tues. - Wed 10:00 A M. - 2:00 A M 
Thurs - Fri.  Sat 10:00 A M - 3:00 A.M.

---------------------------------------------------

December 7, 1982The TartanPage 17
ew group puts on enthusiastic "Godspell"
JOHN CANTTNE
tan Assistant Entertainment Editor
his past weekend saw the opening of 
ew professional theatre group in this 
the Pittsburgh Renaissance Theatre, 
the companys first production, Man
aging Director Dan Fallon 
 chose Godspell, a play that he 
has worked with in the past. 
It was a fortunate choice. 
dspell is a youthful play, and demands 
oung and enthusiastic cast. The PRT 
uction had that youth, and then 
e. The action onstage resembled a 
ee-ring circus more than a play. The 
ire cast was full of energy that could 
be confined to the stage, or to the 
-hour production. Many of the cast 
mbers continued their dancing right 
ough intermission. It was impossible 
resist the spirit of ensemble and just 
in fun that pervaded the play, 
he cast was somewhat mixed, made 
both of drama students and of actors
o have played in several professional 
uctions, but the performances were 
formly good. Of course, the two stars, 
^de Jones as Jesus and Manuel Galo as John the Baptist, impressed 
mselves on the audience more than the 
porting cast, but there was not a weak 
k in the group, which functioned as a 
t-knit team.
n staging the play, Director Fallon has 
de a few changes to bring Godspell 
the 80s. In the PRTs production, 
audience comes into contact with 
-speak, Pac-man, and Burger King 
gles. And, somehow, these attempts at 
ernization are so spontaneous, so 
ny, and seem to fit so well into the 
[ginal spirit of the play, that they enterrather than offend.
The FRTs future, however, may be 
hurt by the companys location. It cur
rently operates out of Chatham Colleges 
Eddy Theatre, and the theatres secluded 
location, and its remoteness from the cen
ter of the city, have caused attendance 
problems. On the second night of the 
plays three-week run, the players must 
have been disappointed to play to a half-empty 
theatre.
The Eddy Theatre was perfect for 
Godspell, however. It is about the size 
and shape of most high-school auditori
ums, and the PRT cast was sure to exploit 
this intimacy to the fullest. They danced 
in the aisles, and mixed freely with the 
audience throughout the play.
The Pittsburgh Renaissance Theatre 
was established to entertain playgoers 
with their favorite musicals, plays that
they enjoy seeing again and again. With 
its first production, at least, the PRT has 
succeeded admirably.
Godspell will play in the Eddy Theatre 
every Thursday through Sunday night 
through December 19. All night perfor
mances are at 8:00 p.m., with matinee 
performances every Saturday at 2:00 p.m. 
All seats are $6.00. For ticket information 
call 331-0219.
LAy uaor1o1 1c0w erima1rod rb trRma w0aF
p
By SARA RATCHYE
Special to the Tartan 
The four artists exhibiting work at Forbes 
Gallery this week, Kristi King, Pat Marshall, 
Julie McCoy, and Thadine Ryan, work 
with fiber. However, each artist has manip
ulated and added to the medium 
to create four divergent styles.
Kristi Kings unsettling, 
three-dimensional forms 
express the paradox of lush, multi-colored 
beauty and its pious containment by rough, 
crude means. King creates luxuriously textured and colored forms by layering hand
made paper, woven fabric, patterned and 
hand-drawn fabric, and found objects. 
Wrapping, and consequent shaping and 
containing, of the forms creates a resdess 
tension in Kings work.
Thadine Ryans concern with memory 
and remnant is expressed in her giant quilt. 
Measuring thirteen feet by thirteen feet, the 
quilt is composed of twelve unique squares. 
Beyond the traditional functions of keeping 
the user warm and visually and texturally 
delighted, Ryans quilt is involved in the 
users mood and simple games. For exam
ple, small books to be removed and read are 
attached to the Square-for-a-Rainy-Day. In 
the pocket of another square is a stuffed cat
 there to be taken out and played with.
Julie McCoy uses many different kinds of 
fabric and the trappings of the theatres stage 
to describe (he characters and environment 
in the subconscious world. McCoys stage 
excludes reality. The viewer sees and expe
riences another world through the stage. 
McCoys drawn, sewn, embroidered, and 
shaped compositions are ordered within a 
stage format of a curtain, fringe and a level.
One three-dimensional wall piece, made 
of shaped and stuffed canvas, contains the 
artists personal characters, a button and the 
cone, within an elaborate stage. The two 
characters seem to be props, rather than 
actors, around which the viewer performs. 
McCoys interest in creating new environ
ments is stepped up in scale and experience 
with her wall panel and cavern panel.
The viewer is forced to become physically
involved with the work. As in the wall piece, 
the viewer must be an actor within the 
artists world.
McCoy is also showing pastel drawings of 
figures inside boxed compositions. The fig
ures expressions and gestures indicate that 
existence in McCoys compositions is not 
always pleasant.
Pat Marshalls metal sculptures and float
ing groups of small, paper pillows contrast 
the space created by nearly weighdess and 
heavy objects.
King, Marshall, McCoy, and Ryan are all 
artists. However, the labels of craft and 
hobby are still applied to their fiber work. 
Their shows title, Neo Hobby Art, is an 
astute poke at the instant aesthetic acclaim 
for neo-expressionistic art and the art com
munitys preservation of an antique, unsus
tainable attitude toward fiber.
Two men face choices in Lc01mb
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur xL
have to face if he follows the religious path.
Danny, on the other hand, is finally dis
covering the outside world. He spends more 
time in the library, something his father has 
stricdy forbidden. He uses his gift of remar
kable photographic memory to pursue an
interest in psychology. Still, he becomes 
frustrated in college by the stifling method 
">f thought he will be forced to follow. This 
is the only valid interpretation of Freud, his 
professor states. Leam it.
And never can Danny forget his fathers 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur x"
Senior Portraits
delivered by 
Strem-Varden Studios 
Thurs. December1982
Skibo Gray Matter
a.mm
Balancetime!
Please bring your receipt.
This delivery applies only to the 1st photo session.
Funded by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanDecember 7, 1982
The Core examine direction for their future
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8rur xn
know what I thought of the band before I 
was in it and what I think of it now, and its 
a lot tighter now and a lot tougher. Theres 
just a lot more clarity now toward whats 
coming out of the speakers, and everything 
is much more defined.Tartan: Do you think youve been influenced by Rastafarianism a lot?
Duen No, Im not. The brotherhood of man 
is more important than some idea above 
man; thats the way I feel... the ideas of like, 
communal living, the community kind of 
living, I can identify with  I think its a 
very valid idea for the future. Whats going 
to happen to our culture if we dont all stick 
together?
The speakers shift to Ken Crisafio, drummer of the band, at this point. Having 
been talking before the rest of the group 
arrived at Lous, we decided that a lot of 
what we discussing was worth taping. The 
conversation appears in its original form. 
Tartan: What exactly are your future recording plans?
Crisafio: Probably in February were going 
to go into a 4 song EP, a 12 inch EP Tartan: Do you have that signed with anyone?
Crisafio: No. Were going to put it out our
selves again. Itll be released in the spring. 
Tartan: Do you have any developments going on with record labels at all? 
Crisafio: No, because we couldnt market 
the last single we did since most of those 
people arent even with the band any more. 
We couldnt use that to take it around to 
record companies or anything like that. 
Tartan: Who writes most of the material? 
Crisafio: Everyone just about. Tony and 
Kurt and Brook write a lot of the lyrics and 
music is generally composed by all of us.
Its just that someone will play a line, the 
melody maybe of a song, and well all add 
our parts or work it out; more or less jam it 
out till it takes form. Then we throw around 
ideas for arrangements. It falls together 
really easily.
Tartan: How about your touring plans? 
Crisafio: Well, we just had a successful litde
III'Milmmi.MMHill1 IH1inaili
8cm Auarbm1 L055mnm 
0t Av1rp
157 East 74 Street, New York, N.Y. 10021 (212) 737-0700
MAJOR FIELDS OF STUDY
Ensembles in Residence The New York Philharmonic Wind Quintet 
The Dorian Wind Quintet The Galimir String Quartet
Special Guest Ensemble The Empire Brass Quintet
PIANOEdward AldweU Arkady Aronov David Bar-Illan Claude Frank Richard Goode Jeannette Haien Eugenia Hyman Lilian Kallir Edith Oppens Marie Power*Josef Raieff Nadia Reisenberg Peter Serkin Nina Svetlanova Mildred Waldman Diane WalshHARPSICHORDKenneth Cooper Eugenia EarleORGAN aid CHURCH MUSICFord Lallerstedt William WhiteheadSTRINGED INSTRUMENTSNina Beilina, ViolinRaphael Bronstem, Violin and ViolaIsidore Cohen, ViolinFelix Galimir, ViolinShirley Givens, ViolinAm Kavafian, ViolinYoung Uck Kim. ViolinSally Thomas, ViolinPaul Doktor, Viola and ViolinJohn Graham. ViolaSol Greiuer, ViolaKaren Tattle, ViolaClaus Adam. VioloncelloTimothy Eddy. VioloncelloJean Schneider Goberman, VioloncelloYo Yo Ma. VioloncelloPaul Tobias. VioloncelloJulius Levine, Double BassHomer Mcnsch, Double BassWOODWIND and BRASSKarl Kraber, Flute Andrew Loiya, Flute John Wioa, Flute Elaine Douvas, Oboe Albert Gokzer, Oboe Ronald Roseman, Oboe Gervase de Peyer, Clarinet David Glazer, Clarinetv. Clarinet
Leonard Hindell, Bassoon Judith LeClair, Bassoon Allen Won, Saxophone Antonio Iervolino, French Horn Ranier Delntinis, French Horn Philip Myers, French Horn Mel Broiles, Trumpet James Smith, Trumpet William Vacchiano. Trumpet John Ware, Trumpet Per Brevig, Trombone Gilbert Cohen, Trombone and Bass Trombone Donald Harwood, Bass Trombone Warren Deck, TubaTYMPANI and PERCUSSIONNorman Grossman Howard Van Hyning Walter RosenbergerHARPLucile LawrenceCLASSICAL GUITARLeonid Bolotine Roslyn Diugin Eliot Fisk Frederic Hand Herbert Levine Michael Newman Robert Secrist Albert Valdes-BlainVOICECharles Bressler Thomas Cultice Peter Elkus Ellen Faull Jane Gunter Antonia Lavanne Dan Marek Jan Peerce Judith Raskin Marian Thompson Theodor Uppman
ORCHESTRA and ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTING Sidney Harth, Music DirectorCHORUS aad CHORAL CONDUCTING Amy Kaiser, Music DirectorMANNES OPERA THEATEREARLY MUSIC PROGRAMCOMPOSITION
THEORY PROGRAM
Scholarship* are available. B.M., B.S., M.M., Diploma, Post-Gradnate Diploma.
Call or write: Diane Newman, Director of Admissions, The Mannes 
of Mask, 157 East 74 St., New York, N.Y. 10021, (212) 737-0700.
trip up to Michigan and it kind of estab
lished us up there. Theyd never seen the 
band and they liked the band a lot, so well 
be going back up there. Were working on 
some clubs in D. C. and Baltimore, well be 
heading there real soon. A litde farther off 
will be Philadelphia and farther south like 
Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, and 
Florida.Tartan: All the way down South.? 
Crisafio: Right, our circle keeps spreading 
farther and farther out. It only takes time.
Tartan: Do you mostly play clubs, bars and colleges?
Crisafio: Id say we do most of our work in 
college towns, in the bars. Thats our most 
perceptive audience. Thats basically 
because theyre in tune with new music and 
even though it doesnt get airplay on com
mercial radio stations, they still know 
whats going on.Tartan: Marc gets most of your club dates and things like that, doesnt he?
Crisafio: No, I do. He doesnt do booking.
Tartan: How did you get into that? 
Crisafio: In previous bands Ive been doing 
it and I just built upon it. I was basically the 
only one who wanted to do it. Before Marc 
came into the band in June, I had done it 
and basically handled all of the business for 
the band. Marc kind of took all of that off of 
my shoulders, the one part of it. It eased 
things up for me so I didnt have to do that 
and play. Now I just do that. If I find a new 
club, I tell Marc to send things out and plus 
hes good consultant, he helps us make good 
decisions. He organizes things and takes 
care of business at home while were away.
A manager isnt really a booking agent, 
theyre two different things. As long as I can 
keep doing the bookings, we dont have to 
hire a booking agent who will want two or 
three hundred dollars a week to do that for 
us. Its not worth it, yet.
photo by Rhoda Funk 
Lead singer Miles during opening (or 
CMUs Clash concert in October.
Tartan: What do you think your biggest problem is when youre on the road? 
Crisafio: Well, like this Michigan date, we 
didnt make a whole lot of money. We made 
enough money to cover expenses. We had a 
place to stay, some friends up there put utv 
up. We werent starving, we had a few bucks 
in our pockets. When you first go in there, 
because youre an unknown band, youre 
not going to make a whole lot of money first 
off, youre not going to draw real big crowds 
first off. Next time we go there, the people 
who were there will bring their friends and it 
will keep building, thats the way it happens 
all over. Each new place were going to go to 
it will be the same thing. If we go there for a 
week, itll be kind pf slow the first one or two 
times until the people find out who we afe' 
and theyve heard us and we get them to 
come out on a regular basis when were 
there, it just takes time and patience to do it. 
Were going to do it.
Did you find a difference playing CMU than other college campuses?
Crisafio: Well, yeah. I think people liked it
 they had all heard us before. . . at least 
World Citizenship. It was really good. 
People responded to it.
Okay. That was The Core.
Cast gives good showing
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur xc
wish, and what he feels should be his wish: 
to become a rabbi and later replace his father 
as leader of the Jewish community.
The interaction between the two boys, at 
home, at college, or walking down a Brook
lyn street replete in period flavor, is what 
ultimately drives the story towards its 
conclusion.
Rod Steiger gives a sterling performance 
as Dannys father, a charismatic leader of 
people gradually realizing that his son may 
not turn out to be what he wanted. Its very 
pleasing that this excellent actor can still do 
better movies than The Amityinlle Horror.
Maximillian Schell gives a very solid perfonnance, as does Barry Miller in an impres
sive debut as Reuven. Miller is very 
successful at conveying his characters 
bewilderment. Even more impressive is 
Robby Benson. Anyone who thought that 
this perennial teenager lacked acting talent 
will be pleasandy surprised by the work he 
does in diis film.
The Chosen is not perfect. As a charactfi' 
study, the movie is not as good as the Oscarwinning Chariots of Fire. That comparison 
shouldnt make The Chosen any less worth 
seeing, of course.
And, impossibility of all impossibilities, 
sometimes cinema can be a better medium 
for actors than the stage.LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
John S. Brendel 
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle & Buerger*,Professional Corporation
TEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS
(GREEN CARDS)
LABOR CERTIFICATIONS 
RELATIVE PETITIONS CITIZENSHIP 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
Pennsylvania does not recognize or certify legal specialties.

---------------------------------------------------

__________________________Sports.
ukowski's last second jumper gives CMU win
doug phocbyhocStaffwriter
ter a shaky start, the Tartans eased a 6 
nt halftime deficit and edged out the 
tminster Titans 60-59 in boys basketlast Wednesday night. Outstanding 
Lnd half performances by sophomore 
[g Gabriel, and senior Carl Mulac and a 
[ second jumper by Bob Kukowski gave 
| Xartans their first victory of the season. 
Early in the first half, the lead changed 
hk and forth 3 dmes. The Tartans got off 
L early 6-4 lead, while forcing the Titans 
o the 1 and 1 with 11:30 remaining in the 
f. Westminster jumped back on top 16-14 
tiind the shooting of Kevin Haynes and 
jv Woods. Three long distance jumpers 
Pete Bennett of CMU gave the Tartans a 
i20 edge with 6:18 left. After trading 
Skets for a couple of mintes, the Titans 
lished out the half strongly by outscoring 
; Tartans 17-9 and went into the locker)m with a 37-31 lead.
The Tartans game plan was very different 
that of Westminster. CMU concentrated 
their fast break led by Gabriel and their 
iility to move the ball inside for the best 
t. On the other hand, Westminster relied 
vily on their outside shooting.
e Tartans opened the second half in a 
n to man defense and kept switching 
ween that and their 3-2 zone defense, 
stminster opened up an 8 point lead a 
nute into the second half and from there 
it was all downhill for the Titans. Two 
tside jumpers, one by Bennett and the 
er by Kukowski trimmed the lead to 39-
[From the 18 minute mark up until the 10 
knute mark, both teams traded baskets up 
Id down the floor. Again it was CMUs 
[nsition game versus Westminsters long 
lge jumpers. During this stretch, Mulac 
Dred 3 baskets inside and Gabriel hit a 15 
)ter for CMU, while Woods pumped in 
20 footers for Westminster. Like the first 
the Tartans forced Westminster into 
e 1 and 1 early, this time with 10:09 
[maining in the game.
The turning point of the game came with 8 
[inutes left in the game after a Mulac lay 
With Westminster leading 49-48, they 
cided to hold the ball and force the Taris to come out and play them.
|They initially traded baskets, with 
abriel hitting a 15 footer and Brooks hitig a jumper of his own. The next four 
ies up and down the court produced 2
photo by Gene Yonish
Bob Kukowski (22) skies for a rebound vs.
lay-ups for Mulac and 2 jumpers from Ran
dall. With 2:07 left the Tartans still trailed
57-55.
After a Westminster time out, they 
decided to go box and one against Gabriel 
and shadow his every step. After a Tartan 
time out, Mulac was fouled. Trailing by 
one, Mulac sun both ends of a 1 and 1, and 
the Tartans took the elad 58-57 with only 38 
seconds remaining.
The scoring wasnt over yet as the Titans 
pushed the ball up the floor and Dave 
Richards hit a jumper with 27 seconds left to 
put Westminster on top 59-58.
The Tartans called a timeout with 19 
seconds left in order to set up for the last 
Novemvbr1 ov 8aur RS
Westminster. The Tartans beat the Titans, a team who lost to Pitt bv onlv 13.Hockey mangles Wheeling
By WILLIAM A. HEYSE
Tartan Staffwritn
It was a hats off game in Wheeling as 3 
Tartan players collected hattricks in a 16-5 
win over Wheeling College.
CMU started slow as it took over 7 min
utes for Eric Spray to put in the first one.
Shordy later Rob Katz got the first of his 
hattricks. Wheeling then got their first of the 
night. Then Mike Hallovan picked the 
comer of the net on a pass from Tim Carlin 
for the first goal of his CMU career. The 
Cardinals then got their second of the night.
Then with 20 seconds left in the first period 
Chris Byrne got the first of his hattricks. Rich "Pinhead Lund.
xued c00:1oma1 nmo evbFme
Wheeling started the second period by 
scoring their third. Chris Byrne, Rick 
Samuelson and Bob Koch scored one each to 
add three to the Tartan total. Wheeling got 
the forth. Kaleb Corkery then scored the first 
of his hattricks. Wheeling then got their 
fifth and final goal. Finishing the second 
period Rick Samuelson, Chris Byrne, and 
Rob Katz each scored to make the score 11-5.
In the third period Ted Dawson, Rob 
Katz each scored, Kaleb Corkery got two, 
and for the highlight of the evening Bill 
Pinpoint Schwartz scored on a feed from
photo by Gene Yonish
le game against Cal. Slate began on a sorrow note as the Tartans wore black ribbons in 
1(>ry of their late teammate, Val Brandt.
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
Unlike the mens team, the CMU women 
hoopsters failed in their attempt to conquer 
a Division II squad, losing to the Vulcans 
from California State 79-55.
The Tartans suffered from a lack of speed 
and size as Cal. State repeatedly ran the fast 
break past CMU with Vulcans Jenise Lock
hart and Denise Heam being the prime 
benefactors. By the end of the game, CMU 
had been out rebounded by a whopping 
63-36 margin. Cal. State also employed a 
3-1-1 full court press which effectively 
caused many turnovers and tired the starung 
five of CMU.
The first half of play far resembled the 
final score. The Tartans kept it close mainly 
due to the fantastic play of Deborah Durr 
who ended up with 29 point and nine 
rebounds. Unfortunately for the Tartans, 
there was no one else under the boards to 
help Durr clog the middle and collect 
rebounds. Because of it, Cal. State grabbed a 
significant number of offensive boards 
which led to points. Vulcan Benita Jones
had 17 rebounds in the first half.
However, a tenacious CMU defense led by 
sophomore Michelle Schlegel and point 
guard sophomore Laurie Aren das kept the 
score within shooting distance. The first 
half ended with Cal. State up 32-34.
The second half was quite a different 
story. The Vulcans, using point blank 
shooting from Heam and Maria Zangari, 
outscored CMU 15-2 at the beginning of the 
half. By the time Tartan coach Kathleen 
Paczkowski called a time-out the lead was 
up to 21.
From there on it was garbage time. CMU 
tried a small comeback by cutting the lead to 
49-36, but eight straight points off a steal 
and some fast breaks put the game out of 
reach.
The game was played on a somewhat 
somber note as all the Tartan players wore 
black ribbons on their uniforms in remem
brance of their former teammate, senior Val 
Brandt. Brandt had died suddenly two 
weeks earlier during a class.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanDecember 7, 1982
CLUB VINTAGE CLOTHIERdNOMYMOUS
284 M0REW00D AT CENTRE TUE/FRI12-6 SAT. 11-6 
CLASSIC CLOTHING FOR GUYS & DOLLS 681-9387
Carl Mulac (34) uses his muscle to score two of 18 against Westminster
Stall turns game around
gA :5ud0tt 1mu10b p0,rbn4
Tylenol Killers 
PILAMrx
Our Gang 
M 8c Ms
WIN
2
3
1
0
3
LOSS
2
1
2
3
1
625 STANWDC ST DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH * (412) 562-1900
Marcelle's Typing Service
SpocitMrm in Word %
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term $ 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon
-------------------------------------------------------r
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur xh
shot. The T artans tried to get Gabriel free. 
Finally, with only 9 seconds left Bob 
Kukowski was open at the comer of the foul 
line. His 15 foot jumper swished the net and 
CMU led 60-59. Westminsters last second 
effort fell short as CMU triumphed.
Greg Gabriel led all scores with 19 and
Carl Mulac poured in 18.
The Tartans also played Friday night but 
lost to a tough Grove City team at Grove 
City 72-64. CMU was led by Mulac who 
poured in 17.
CMUs next game will be Wednesday 
night at 8 p.m. at Skibo Gym. Their foes 
will be Pitt-Johnstown.
3-PERSON
VOLLEYBALL
MAJORS (G)WINLOSS
Theta Xi A20
USTALAR20
Coachs All Stars11
Networkers22
EE03
Steves Team01
LEAGUE HWINLOSS
Whankers02
Theta Xi B21
Harrys TavernLoomis 40
J3K02
Cherwonik12
LEAGUE JWINLOSS
ZBTB02
OTA30
SUPA Heroes22
The Millermen12
Theta Xi C11
LEAGUE KWINLOSS
Kappa Sig21
Misc11
Orient Express12
SAE C20
Crick Rats02
LEAGUE LWINLOSS
Harrys Tavem-Branch11
Pi Lam A20
ZBT A04
FTW20
SAE III11
MINORS (M)WINLOSS
Grimmer-Schmidt12
Slush Puppus12
Pi Lam B30
Wish We Could12
TEAM VOLLEYBALL 
STAR TEAM
ALLFirst Team 
Mike Matthews 
Joe Bares 
John Kmeta 
Eric Kaufman 
Mark Spademan 
Steve Melynchuck 
Second Team 
Frank Grubitch 
John Laird 
Dave Chait 
Heinrick Pan 
Robert Schorr 
Mike Ehrgott
USTALAR 
USTALAR 
Theta Xi A 
Theta Xi A 
USTALAR 
USTALAR
USTALAR 
USTALAR 
Theta Xi A 
Theta Xi A 
Theta Xi A 
Theta Xi A
MVP - Mike Matthews 
USTALAR
GYN
ABORTION 
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL
COUNSELING
UJomens HealthServices.
Well folks, its intramural playoff time 
again and that means excitement ranging 
from the chess board to the bowling alleys. 
Playoff schedules for all current IM sports 
will be posted on the IM bulletin board or 
your commissioner will inform you of the 
schedules.
Elsewhere, Jon Bruno would like all All 
School and MVP Touch Football ballots 
brought to him at BTP.
Comm. Kris Tutde would like it if teams 
regular court sign up procedures for 
make up IM Racquetball games.
Schedules are out for Backgammon.. 
Comm. Art Benjamin, 683-5945, will get the 
season going next semester for those who 
t failed out by then.
Important!! Did you know that you could 
sign up for IM Basketball this semester? 
Thats right. Why wait till January? By then 
youll probably forget and youll have 10 
guys screaming at you. There are four div
isions, Major-tough ball, Intennediate-good 
ball, Minor-just fun, and Women-just fun 
for the spectators. The same sign up system 
used for other sports is employed here. So, 
just dribble on over to the Gym and fill out a 
form. Commissioners are needed for all 
divisions.
Next meeting for the all important IM 
board will be Jan 13,1983. Be There! Aloha!
TABLE TENNIS
MATORS (A)WINLOSS
Kappa Sigma10
PIKA0 ,3
Phi Kap A10
Samurui02
The Defaults11
Butterslag30
MINORS (B)WINLOSS
Army ROTC50
DU12
DG-221
Adams Paddles02
Harrys Tavern11
GWANGI20
DARTS
WIN LOSS
Theta Xi A 
Theta Xi B 
ATO A 
ATO B 
EAE 
DU
Phi Kap
CHESS

---------------------------------------------------

TAKES ON EXCITING NEW DIMENSIONS
December BI 1982The TartanPage 21
Computer-generated design for investigating 
structural strengths and weaknesses.
Developing and managing Air 
Force engineering projects could 
be the most important, exciting 
challenge of your life. The 
projects extend to virtually every 
engineering frontier.
" Ugfllf IlkVH ICf lABAllfH
astronautical, civil, 
electrical, mechanical and 
nuclear. Hundreds of diverse 
specialties are included in a wide 
variety of work settings. For 
example, an electrical engineer 
may work in aircraft design, 
space systems, power production, 
communications or research.
A mechanical engineer might be 
involved in aircraft structure 
design, space vehicle launch pad 
construction, or research.
jfCdlUM flHjCAHwkMt UCslH lgfkt
/
Air Force electrical engineer studying aircraft 
electrical power supply system.
Engineering opportunities in 
the Air Force include these 
eight career areas: aeronautical, 
aerospace r architectural.
Air Force mechanical engineer inspecting 
aircraft jet engine turbine.
Most Air Force engineers 
have complete project 
responsibility early in their 
careers. For example, a first 
lieutenant directed work on a 
new airborne electronic system 
to pinpoint radiating targets. 
Another engineer tested the jet 
engines for advanced tanker and 
cargo aircraft.
CjjCfMFAMlH A MTl Al2 FHgI HjgUl UCssgAV
Artist's concept of thePSCS III Defense Satellite 
Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.)
Recently, the Air Force 
formed a new Space Command.
Its role is to pull together space 
operations and research and 
development efforts, focusing on 
the unique technological needs of 
space systems.This can be your 
opportunity to join the team that 
develops superior space systems 
as the Air Force moves into the 
twenty-first century.
To learn more about how you 
can be part of the team, see your 
Air Force recruiter or call our 
Engineer Hotline toll free 
1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 
1-800-292-5366). Theres no 
obligation.
I AI A4 Ulflll MLiivi niunAIRFORCE
hico rebounding from tough start
JEFFREY BERGMAN
Sports Editor
lost week. Oh well. The first time 
>ar I go with the surprise teams, 
and New Orleans, they lose, 
luck. However, watch those best bets. 
7-2 since the strike, 
week  (5-8)
- (29-40)
Bets  (2-1)
- (7-8)
est bets this week: Minnesota, Cincinatti,
-. Louis.
lome teams in caps)
EW YORK over Philadelphia. Giants are
rolling. Eagles arent.
SAN FRANCISCO over San Diego. Soggy 
grass sinks Air Coryell.
GREEN BAY over Detroit. Packers are now 
the class of the league.
New Orleans over ATLANTA. Ill try em
one more time.
NEW YORK over Tampa Bay. Those swi
rling cold winds will confuse Williams and 
the rest of the Bucs.
ST. LOUIS over Washington. Skins have 
let down from big game vs. Cowboys. 
MINNESOTA over Baltimore. The Colts 
still stink.
CINCINATTI over Cleveland. After last 
weeks embarrassment, Gregg will be crack
ing the whip.
LOS ANGELES over Denver. Broncos in 
disarray.
Miami over NEW ENGLAND. Who
knows with the Patriots.
KANSAS CITY over Los Angeles. Chiefs 
have to break out sometime.
Pittsburgh over BUFFALO. Bills have 
stunk the place up since strike. 
HOUSTON over Dallas. Another intrastate 
Monday Night rivalry.
! Pssr~ ~ ; J Yes.
; f vekything ! ' Wf /"lAKfT? ; ; ou* Mo VF
L_ I *' f ,HVONiwr..,f " ~i ------------/1/ 1/

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanDecember 7, 1982
The Perfect Pair For Pittsburgh Lovers
Introducing...
Poor 
Mans 
Guide to 
Pittsburgh
4.95
By the Pair 7.50 Gift Packaged 
ae Ua.8b7 wooG7eo0r7 
Va8a0e.ave Heo0aa 
ArD7eav17
Hitchhiker's guide to AAUS conference in Jersey
The parties followed the fraternity patt
ern: bands played mainstream rock, plenty 
of beer, and individual dancing. Quigley 
and I tried to reintroduce contact to dance 
with a bit o the slam, but no one picked up 
on it. Oh well. I also discovered the difficulty 
of trying to explain the excellence of Peter 
Gabriels concert to someone who had never 
heard of him.
November 20; 11:12.4 a.m.
Today was Newspaper day and we were 
supposed to be in a meeting. I locked the 
keys in the car with the engine running. 
Luckily we had another set, but back in the 
room, of course. Quigley was pissed. The 
Senators also locked their keys in the car; 
unfortunately, they had no spare and had to 
employ a locksmith to make them a new 
key. We made the workshops; for summarkey. We made the workshops; for summar
ies see other articles in this section. (Quigley 
wrote those and he wants you to read them.)
After the workshops and before hitting 
the clubs on Saturday night, Quigley got 
some sleep, the first in no one knows how 
many hours. I couldnt sleep so I went into 
Princeton to buy beverage and take photos.* 
One personage whose portrait (I apologize 
for the cheeky alliteration, please keep in 
mind that I was in Jamaica earlier in this 
article) I took stands out clear in my 
memory.
I walked into a pharmacy on Nassau 
Avenue to buy cigarettes. The manager 
noticed my camera and asked me what I was 
going to do with the rest of my life. I was 
f loored, there was no preliminary corwersa 
tion whatsoever. I managed to babble some
thing about writing the Great American 
Novel, but he didnt laugh. Instead, He 
launched into a tirade on the economic ills of 
America and how those ills destroyed peoples 
chances for finding happiness.
He ploughed on with the bitter precision 
a grave digger. I could only listen. It 
turned out that in his youth he wanted to be 
a doctor but couldnt afford the education so 
he opted for pharmacy school. Apparently 
he was doing alright: he owned rental prop
erty, successful business, and he was sending 
his son to the University of Pennsyl >ania. 4 
The son was studying to be a doctor. I won
dered if his son made the choice, but I didnt
National media
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur x5
dent and campus activities.
After ninety minutes of bantering, partidcame to some general conclusions. 
First, most media content (television pro
gramming in particular) is a narrow distri
bution with its center aimed slightly to the 
right of center on the standard political^ 
spectrum.
Secondly and rather obviously, television 
is a major common denominator in our 
sodety. Finally, national and local media 
are usually willing to report exclusively on 
the extremes of student activities.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS A HOWARD W KOCH PRODUCTION AIRPLANE II: THE SEQUEL ROBERT HAS 
JULIE HAGERTY LLOYD BRIDGES  CHAD EVERETT WILLIAM SHATNER DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY JOE BIROC. A.S.C. 
PRODUCED BY HOWARD W KOCH WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY KEN FINKLEMAN A PARAMOUNT PICTURE .Sit.
PG nwenu gudmc susgesth^
%om mm mot sf sureasli fom chudw
11 t*v (ofkwiMof' An Araerveo *W'!$
Opens December lOth at a theatre near you.
Novemvbr1 p0o. 8aur x,
doubt we could have found three more hos
pitable and knowledgeable girls in all of 
Princeton to spend the weekend with. They 
knew where all the parties were and how to 
get us in. If any lecherous grins are creasing 
the faces of Tartan readers, for shame. It was 
a completely honorable arrangement and 
Quigley and I conducted ourselves like 
gentlemen.
Princeton is the name of a town and a 
university. We were told that nothing much 
happens in the twon after sundown, and it 
did look pretty dead when we cruised the 
main street, Nassau Avenue. Prospect 
Avenue was a different story. On it were 
Princetons counterparts to CMUs fraterni
ties, only Princeton calls them clubs and 
most are nonsexist. People have to be
initiated and they have officers, but only the 
officers live there. Otherwise, the clubs are 
the social center for Princeton 
upperclassmen.
Freshmen and sophomores live in what 
are called colleges. Each college has its own 
dining hall, rec rooms and libraries. In addi
tion, faculty members frequently eat at the 
colleges. According to Vice Provost Spies, 
such contact improves faculty /student/ad
ministration interaction and further unifies 
the social life of the campus.
Jeannie, Adrienne, and Sue took Quigley 
and me to several clubs on both Friday and 
Saturday night. It was hard to tell if the ease 
of admission had anything to do with our 
hosts, our guest status, our good looks, or a 
general benevolent attitude on the part of 
club door watchers.
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medial clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland)Pittsburgh, PA 15213(412) 687-TEST
Sa* trrtw i to apM * IM
Mtdkil Center Ul Building 
PentHou** Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pitt*burgh. PA 1ShCenter

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
OE FRESHMAN
You GO \ TO GOUEfcf !FORBES GALLERY December 7 to December 
11. Show of fiber, drawings and metal work by 
Kristi King, Pat Marshall, Julie McCoy, and 
Thadine Ryan. Opening: December 7, 7-9 p.m. 
Hours: Wednesday through Saturday, 11 a.m. to 
6 p.m. Forbes Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue, Pitts
burgh, PA 15217. Phone: 578-2081.
S \)f KlD-- 
Oak another TRicvcii?
WELL,\\ YfAH, V
GUT \N ovembr 1
I'i.i are
PRESSURE 5...
' LIKE FWAl^.. 
And of
cour.se IT 
Co^>TS A 
c R*T MHl11E EE f ANOYove8aund
A>0UT 6R^ES.
ln y
Social ufI -- fSNO 70C>S  &NO  ^ WvJO... J
theatre
Central Catholic Masque opens its theater season 
with the Broadway hit that made the Navy and 
life on a cargo ship laughable, Mister Roberts. 
The delightful comedy drama will be presented 
the first two weekends of December. Masqut 
Director Lee Tommarello promises an enjoyable 
evening for all as the adventures of Mister 
Roberts and Ensign Pulver unfold. Tickets may 
be purchased in advance (621-8189) for $2.00 orat 
the door for $2.50. Performances at the Oakland 
school are at 8:00 PM on Friday and Saturday, 
December 10 and 11. For further information, the 
school number is 621-8189.MlLLimL
The New Group Theater is presenting the pre
miere of NERVOUS WOMEN, the first in a 
series of new plays to be presented by the Group, 
December 9 thru 19 at Carlow Colleges Anto
nian Theater.
NERVOUS WOMEN will run Thursday thru 
Sunday evenings at 8 p.m., December 9 thru 19, at 
Carlow Colleges Antonian Theater, the comer 
of Fifth and Craft Avenues in Oakland. Tickets 
are sdll $2, and there is plenty of free parking 
available next to the theater. Reservations can be 
made by calling 431-7662.
bility, (Quigley was pissed, he demanded to 
drive) and we discovered that Hertz National 
has absolutely no idea how the local offices 
decide billing rates.
December 5; 1:22 p.m.
Here is our humble narrative of a wee
kend away from home. Quigley is some
where in Jamaica still recovering while Im 
searching for the return key on the typewri
ter and gulping Iron City. We hope the story 
fulfills your expectations. You paid for it. 
Comments and questions can be addressed 
to Leroy and Quigley, c/o The Tartan, 
Skibo, room 50.
By GEOF BECKER 
and CHRIS JOHNSTON
8emvbr1 p0o. 8aur RR
ve the courage to ask.
As the proprietor ground on, I contrasted 
s bitterness with Sams seemingly content 
meanor. Something weird was in the air. I 
isnt sure what, but later when I tried to 
plain it to Quigley, he just shook his head 
rtly and offered me some beverage. Why
ovember 21; 1:29 p.m.
Sunday dawned bright gold, and after sevil cross-state phone calls, Quigley and I 
cided to drive back to Pittsburgh. The 
ather degenerated around Harrisburg, we 
imed that Toyota Corollas bounce off 
lard rails with surprising directional sta
THE PITTSBURGH METROPOLITAN 
STAGE COMPANY, in cooperation with the 
CMU music department will present the Metro 
Family Festival, Saturday and Sunday, Dec. 18 
and 19 in Alumni Concert Hall in the College of 
Fine Arts at CMU.
Photo by Leroy
Disillusioned druggistPRIDE
WRCT Party
Thursday, December 9 
at 9:00 p.m.
at HEAVEN
105 6th St. 
free beer from 9-10 
supplied by Carsickness 
& The Wake 
who are the entertainment 
for the night
SEE THE ENTIRE COLLECTION OF 
HERFF JONES COLLEGE RINGS
CfVlf tCFf MfgVMCAgk UsF fAB Cf IgHTCA fAB CA
DATEMFlHVgt 9 2lVAlHVgt 
VlUlswlf c 9 "
PLACEwgylf Tgkk
HERFF JOMESDivision of Carnation Company
Wa ,unded ^ student activities feeixL VljCHM fl3FflV

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
theatre
Starting Here, Sorting Now  a musical review. 
Starring Risa Brainin. Wiley Kidd & Maxine 
Lapiduss. Directed by John McDaniel. Kresge 
Theatre, CFA.' Tonight, Dec. 7 at 8:00 8c 11:00. No 
admission charge!
GODSPELL Performed by the Pittsburgh 
Renaissance Theatre. Thursday thru Sunday, 
December 9-12, 16-19, 8 p.m. Saturday matinees, 
2 p.m. Eddy Theatre. Admission: $6.00. Box 
Office: 331-0219.
music
The annual College of Fine Arts Christmas 
concert at Carnegie-Mel Ion University will take 
place at 11:30 a.m., Tuesday, Dec. 7 in the lobby 
of the College of Fine Arts Building.
Music department instrumentalists and the 
CML' Chrous will present two selections: 
excerpts from Handels Water Music and The 
Great Chorus from Handels Messiah. Wemer 
Torkanowsky, director of orchestral studies, will 
conduct. Max Peterson is director of choruses.
The concert is open to the public without 
charge.
WRCT (88.3) features: Monday, November 22, at 
9 p.m. and Friday, November 26, at midnight the 
B-Sharp Concert Series with The Dickies; Wed
nesday, November 24, at 9 p.m. and Saturday, 
November 27 at midnight the BBC College Con
cert Hour with Translator Live In Concert', every
day at 8 a.m., 1 p.m., 5 p.m., and 11 p.m. the 
Radio Calendar, Pittsburghs daily events; 21 
hours everyday FREE FORM. Non-commercial 
music on WRCT.
Tonight: 11:30 AM. Traditional Christmas Pro
gram College of Fine Arts Lobby. 8:00 PM. Con
temporary Ensemble Concert  Leonardo 
Balada, Director. Alumni Concert Hall.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project will 
present the third in its series of eight free concerts 
on Tuesday, Dec. 14, 8 p.m., at 726 St. James 
Street in Shadyside. The program will include 
two works by J.S Bach; the Suite No. 3 in C 
major for solo cello and the Sonata in A minor 
for violin solo. Ravels Sonata for Violin and 
Cello will conclude the concert. The musicians 
are Jill Levy, violin, and Adriana Contino, cello. 
Few further information, please call 682-1746 or 
241-4243.
quesuons.
VIRA L HEINZ SUMMER STUDY AWARD.
Women students who are currently completing 
their j unior year and who plan to study abroad in 
the summer between their junior and senior years 
are eligible to apply for the VIRA L. HEINZ 
TRAVEL AWARD. This award provides $2500 
to a woman student at Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity through the Pittsburgh Foundation as a 
result of a gift of Mrs. Vira L. Heinz, a trustee 
emerita.
Junior women interested in being considered for 
this award should pick up an application form in 
Dean Coxs Office, Room 206, Warner Hal. The 
application includes sections in itinerary, 
budget, course of study and reasons for desiring 
to participate in the program.
The deadline for submi tdng completed applica-, 
tions is January 28. Applicants will be requested 
to be present for an interview with the Selection 
Committee on February 10. The award will be 
announced immediately thereafter.
club
THE CMU PEACE ALLIANCE will meet Wed
nesday, Dec. 8 in Room 8325, Wean Hall, at 5:30 
p.m. to discuss future plans. All people interested 
in nuclear arms issues are invited to attend.
The student senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the senate during audience 
participation.
LAW CLUB MEETING GSIA Room 225, Dec.
7, 7:00 p.m.. CMU grads now in law school will 
attend and relate.
WRCT (88.3 FM) features 
. . .Wed. (9 p.m.), Dec. 8 and Sat. (mid.), Dec. 11: 
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR  UB40 
recorded live in concert
. . .everyday (8 a.m., 1 p.m., 5 p.m., 11 p.m.): 
RADIO CALENDAR CONCERT LIST  
Pittsburghs daily events plus concerts coming in 
the next 3 weeks
. . .Tuesday (8:30 p.m.), Dec. 7: LIVE INTER
VIEW WITH THE SHUNTS  during 
RADIO CLASH (next week SWEET OLIVE)
. . all the time, anytime: WRCT MAILING 
LIST  add your name to the list of listeners 
. . .every' Fri. (9 a.m.): NEWSWEEK-FM  
recorded interviews and music with several of 
todays music stars on WRCT
scholarship mjsc.
Full Tuition Scholarships available for FRESH
MEN AND SOPHOMORES to include 
BOOKS, SUPPLIES and MONTHLY STI
PEND. MEETING scheduled for Wednesday, 
December 8, 1982 at 6:00 p.m., second basement, 
MMCH, Room B10 to discuss details and answer
What sits on Forbes Avenue, houses the dino
saurs, exhibits great art and needs you as a volun
teer? Carnegie Institute does. The Museum of 
Natural History and the Museum of Art provide 
opportunities for volunteers to assist curators, to
train as interns, to serve in the gift shops, or in 
any of a large number of areas in the museum 
world. Call Ailsa Thompson in volunteers at 
622-3318 for information.
The Association of Student Chapters of the
American Institute of Architects (ASC/AIA) of 
Camegie-Mellon University has begun this year 
with strong commitment from students inte
rested in enriching their architectural education. 
Some of the activities planned by the ASC/AIA 
are showings of AIA films on architecturallyrelated subjects, sale of tracing paper, and sale of 
architecture T-shirts designed by students. Events 
that have taken place include a tour of WilliamTrebilcock-Whitehead, a prominent Pittsburgh 
architectural firm. Meetings are held Thursday 
nights, in Room 206 CFA, starting at 7 p.m. All 
architecture students are welcome to attend.
THE PITTSBURGH RENAISSANCE 
THEATRE a professional theatre company, 
presents GODSPELL in the Eddy Theatre at 
Chatham College. Performances will run from 
December 2 thru the 19th., on Thursdays thru 
Sundays. Curtain time for all performances is 
8:00 p.m. with two performances on Saturdays at 
2:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. All seats are $6.00. For 
ticket information call: 331-0219.
John P. Cretine, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30-3:30, BH 
260.
classified
Women: Are you an Academic Bag Lady? Join us 
Thursdays 12-1 p.m., 4-6 p.m. at the Lutheran 
University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Questions? 682-6882.
Be Nice to Luan Today!  A message from the 
Trombone section.
For sale  68 Volvo black 2-door sedan. Best 
offer. Call between 6 and 7 weekdays, anytime 
weekends. 362-2140.
Off-campus apartment: Interested in Oakland 
living? Two bedroom, kitchen and living room, 
bath speaks for itself. Very inexpensive, $110 
month. 687-1544 call Dave.
Speakers: Seiko (made by Pioneer) S-1001; 100 
watts; 1982 model; retail for $750; best offer of 
$500/pair; respond by Dec. 10; call Tim at 4664;
BRAND NEW!!
Subjects needed for computer experiment. Must 
have had only one computer programming com
puting course or are now taking introductory 
computing course. Session will run 4-5 hours 
with a following session of one hour one week 
later. Pay $2.50/hour and $5.00 for completion. 
Call Betty x2591 or Kamilla x2618 in the evenings 
and weekends.
Female wanted to share spacious Squirrel Hill 
house: Private room. Walk to CMU! $200. Peggy, 
578-2469 or 682-6968.
Schenley Park efficiency.Available Dec. 1, 
$185 (all utilities paid) call: 621-2654 (M. DUnil
SCRIBE spoken here! Need help with an imp** 
tant research paper or thesis? SCRIBE got 
down? Let me SCRIBE it for you in your owj 
account. Tables, math, etc. Reasonable rates, 
/cash only. 781-7044.
Seldom seen student seeks comfortable ap^ 
ment close to CMU-Pitt for January. Paul 681, 
0404, evenings.
FREE mailed Bible corresp>ondenee cour 
home Bible study, or councelling from the Won 
of God, write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 1054? 
Pgh., PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560.
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine 
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction 
drama, and artwork. Submissons should I* 
placed at Skibo Info Desk, c/o Editor, Oaklan 
Review. Deadline is February 25,1983. Question 
and special arrangements: call Kristin Kovaq 
x4242.
Professional Typing/ Word Processing: Th^
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive lettei 
etc. (MLA - APA 8c Turabian strongly observed 
Large variety of typefaces and 24 hour servio 
available. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satisfactia 
guaranteed.
Improve your grades! Research catalog  
pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 25097C 
Los Angeles, CA 90025, (213)477-8226.
Guitar lessons  classical, jazz, pop. 3rd yea 
CMU music student. Hhr - $6; 1 hr - $10. 01 
Jozsef Toth - 683-7331.
Professional typing and word processing. R 
efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscrip 
research papers, term papers. 24 hr service. Sato 
faction guaranteed. For best results call Ms. Wes 
371-3657.
Will type term papers, dissertations, 
resumes, manuscripts, and so forth. Reasonat 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Loving professional couple seeks adoption 
infant Can you help us? Call after 6 p.m. Billan 
Gloria, 856-5827.
CMU! Skiers! Winter break ski trip to Killings 
or Smugglers Notch ski resorts in Vermonl 
days skiing, 5 nights lodging in slopeside cond 
with kitchens, and nightly parties from 
CALL (800) 368-2006 TOLLFREE ASK F01 
NANCY. Go with friends or organize a srna 
group and ski for FREE.
Talented programer student wanted to go ini
business partnership or P/T work. 367-058 
p.m.
Hempfield Recording Lexicon, Delta Lab, i 
nheiser and Neumann. Small 8-track stu 
including state of the art outboard equipn 
creates excellent recording opportunity at reas 
nable fees. 864-0786.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES 
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cons (& quarts)
STROHS
10WEN8RAU lt.. Ok.,- bottles
MICHilOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHUTZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHUTZ
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIEIS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tuno  Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steok  Sausage 
Veol  Chuck  Chicken Pormeson
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 amWE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday I pm-2 am Imports. Cans. Quarts. Draft Pitchers/ Mugs Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oz 6 pk 
featured eoch weekSTROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ OLD ENGLISH 000  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK'S Lt . Dk Germany 
BASS ALE-England 
HARP LAGER  Ireland 
M01S0N GOLDEN -Conodo 
HEINEKEN lt.. Dk -Holland 
10WENBRAUGermany 
0 KEEFE AU-Canada 
PILSNEft URQUELL-Czech 
KIRINJapan
MACKESSON STOUT - k eland 
OLD VIENNA LAGER-Canada 
55 LAGER-Canodo
ST PAULI GIRlGennony 
DOS EQUIS XXMexico 
JOHN COURAGE  England 
WATNETS - England 
CARLSBERG ELEPHANT -Den 
CARLSBERG ROY AU - Denmark 
CARLSBERG DARK-Denmark 
TSINGTAO-Chino 
HACKER PSCMORR  Germany 
lABATT'SConodo 
MUR PHY-Ireland 
COOPER & SON-Australia 
FOSTER S LAGER-Australia
TCM VCB HTCjH6 AU
Open
9am-3:45om Sun-Thurs 
9om-4:45am Fri-Sat 
Call 621 7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 
Pgh., PA 15213
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
CAU 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
