The Carnegie Tartan
Voi 38 No. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944
SELECTIVE SERVICE RELEASES
QUOTA FOR ENGINEERS
Carnegie Tech To Be Allowed Dr. B. E. Warden 
Deferments For 160 Students Leaves For Naw
New KKG Chapter 
Formed By Merger 
Of KPhi And Beta Pi
In September, the Kappa Phi Del
tas of Margaret Morrison petitioned 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, one of the 
countrys best known national so
rorities and were granted a char
ter. This group from Maggie 
Murph will merge with the Beta 
Pis from Art School and will be 
installed as the Delta Xi chapter 
on February 17, 1944. The new 
chapter at Carnegie Tech will be 
the 76th chapter of Kappa Kappa 
Gamma.
In the present war, Kappas war 
work has centered around service 
to the women in the armed forces. 
They have furnished a lounge in the 
U. S. O. building in Des Moines, the 
WAC training center, and San 
Francisco alumnae have furnished 
a lounge for WAVES at Treasure 
Island. The first lounge for all 
women in the armed services was 
established at the Biltmore Hotel 
in New York. Lounges in other cit
ies are being planned.
Besides war work, the fraternity 
encourages a high standard of schol
arship, loyalty, sincerity, and 
friendship among its members, and 
their active support and interest in 
college and campus affairs. To this 
end sixty actives, eleven pledges, 
and fifty alumnae will pledge them
selves on February 17th. The Delta 
Xi installation is the first one at 
which all the national officers will 
be present.
While the initiation of the new 
members is important, it is only a 
small part of the program of in
stallation. An entire week has been 
devoted to this program. There will 
be various ceremonies and events 
which include a formal banquet at 
the Hotel Schenley on Saturday. 
The entire ceremony will culmin
ate in an open house in the foyer 
of the Fine Arts Building on Sun
day, February 20. The hostess for 
this affair will be the Delta Xi 
Chapter of Kappa Kappa Gamma. 
And from this time on, you will al
ways be able to recognize a Kappa 
by her golden key . . .
Dr. Doherty Honored By 
Eng. Inst, of Canatla
An invitation to honorary mem
bership in the Engineering Institute 
of Canada has been extended to Dr. 
Robert E. Doherty by th Institutes 
secretary, L. Austin Wright. The 
invitation recognizes Dr. Dohertys 
exceptional work during the past 
few years as chairman of the Engi
neering Council for Professional 
Development, as well as for his 
Continued on page 4
Student deferment procedures 
have been established jointly by the 
Selective Service System and the 
War Manpower Commission. The 
National Roster of Scientific and 
Specialized Personnel, a division of 
the War Manpower Commission, 
has been assigned the administra
tion of student deferment proced
ures.
Because of the pressing national 
need for young men in the armed 
services, the Selective Service SysWhat Determines Eligibility?
The new policy governing the oc
cupational deferment of students is 
in accordance with the provisions 
of Selective Service Activity and 
Occupation Bulletin 33-6, amended 
January 6, 1944, which was publish
ed in the Tartan on February 1st. 
The National Roster has advised 
that In determining the students 
for whom deferment requests are to
Quota Committee Appointed
A special Quota Committee has 
been appointed at the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology to make rec
ommendations to the National Ros
ter of Scientific and Specialized Per
sonnel. According to Director Web
ster N. Jones, this Committee, with 
the cooperation of the department 
heads, is now preparing a list, con
taining information on each man 
recommended, for submission to the
tem has decided that it can allow 
the deferment of only 10,000 under
graduate students for the entire 
United States in the fields of engi
neering, chemistry, physics, and 
geology and geophysics.
The Carnegie Tech quota has been 
established at 160 students.
The National Roster had no 
authority in connection with the de
termination of the over-all nation
al quota; the function of the Roster 
is purely administrative.
be made, it should be kept in mind 
that this program is predicated 
upon the vital and demonstrated per
sonnel needs of civilian war indus
try. Thus, students who, because of 
academic ability and other factors, 
seem most likely to succeed in such 
civilian war work and who intend 
to enter civilian employment, 
should be given first consideration.
National Roster for its approval.
The individual student will be no
tified of his status at the earliest 
possible date. It will not expedite 
matters for the student to contact 
the Office of the Director. However, 
if the students receives a communi
cation from his local board, he 
should immediately inform the Of
fice of the Director of the College of 
Engineering.
CAUafUai
Contitu hT Continued on page  ub iu upnuiu me
i J  Ciut&xa U.S
- - mi mm
What Do The Regulations Mean ?
The quota for educational deferments assigned to Carnegie Tech has 
just been announced. One hundred sixty deferred students will remain 
in school to be trained in engineering and scientific subjects so that they, 
after their graduation, can carry on the work of our civilian industry. The 
article above embodies all the official information released thus far, but it 
leaves many questions unanswered.
There are at present roughly four hundred students in the College of 
Engineering, some of them under eighteen, some 4F, but all the rest can
didates for the quota. The big question in all their minds is of course, 
What are my chances to get a deferment; how are they going to select 
boys for the list of 160? The article states that students who, because 
of academic ability and other factors, seem most likely to succeed in civil
ian war work . . . should be given first consideration. This seems to 
mean that students will be selected not only according to grades, but also 
participation in extracurricular activities and other things which show 
ability to deal with people and to fill a responsible position in later life.
There are many more questions in our minds about the operation of 
this new system; they will all be answered in the due course of events. 
In the meantime we must all carry on as usual until the authorities decide 
in which capacity we shall be most useful to the war effort. If we are 
needed as soldiers we shall be glad to take up arms and fight together 
with millions of our countrymen. If we are selected to remain in college as 
civilians, we shall be proud to do so, realizing that America depends upon 
us to uphold the essential work of civilian industry.
Dr. Beryl E. Warden, Director of 
the Division of Student Personnel 
and Welfare, and Dean of Students, 
has been commissioned a Lieuten
ant (s. g.) in the United States 
Navy. He has been ordered to re
port to Princeton University on 
February 25, and after a period of 
indoctrination and training, he will 
receive a special assignment.
Director Warden has been one of 
the most active members of the Fac
ulty and the Administration during 
his fifteen years on the campus. He 
received the A. B. degree from the 
University of Iowa in 1926, and the 
J. D. degree from that same univer
sity in 1927. He joined the staff at 
Carnegie Tech in 1929, and until 
1937 was Assistant Professor of Eco
nomics. In 1937 he became Advisor 
to Men and Secretary of the Execu
tive Board. As a member of the 
Executive Board, he supervised all 
Continued on page 3
A-12 And V-12 Exams 
To Be Given March 15
In order to test the aptitude and 
general knowledge required for all 
civilian students desiring admit
tance to the Army Specialized 
Training Program and the Navy 
College Program, the third Nation
al Army-Navy College Qualifying 
Test will be given in room 104, I.
H. on Wednesday, March 15 at 9:00 
A. M.
According to Mr. Charles E. 
Wangeman, Head of the Bureau of 
Placement, all those students who 
are interested may obtain an admis
sion-identification form in a leaflet 
of general information which is be
ing distributed through his office in
I. H.
The form properly filled out will 
admit students between the ages of 
17 and 21 inclusive to the test who 
are high school graduates or who 
will graduate by July 1, 1944. Intent 
to take the test should be made 
known immediately tOrlVJr. Wange
man in order that the necessary 
test supplies may be ordered.
At the time of the test each can
didate will be given a chance of 
service preference but taking the 
exam does not obligate the candi
date to enlist in the service. Though 
the candidates for the Army-Navy 
Qualifying Test usually are notified 
of their eligibility for the program 
within a month and half after the 
exam, the Bureau of Placement has 
only recently released the names of 
the students who qualified on No
vember 9.
Continued on page 4
Lm

---------------------------------------------------

ATHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944
A>utuUtcU>iThe Outlook . . .
As long as men live together in a group, and as long as there are in
fluences affecting that group, rumors will exist. As long as there is such 
an organization as the Army, or the Navy, or the Boy Scouts, or the Asso
ciation for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ex-Newspaper Editors, opinions 
mixed with fact will fly about with reckless abandon. And these opinions 
will never contain more than one percent of actual information.
And this is only natural. The very fact that a man will go to the trou
ble of inventing a rumor proves his interest in his surroundings. It is 
probably regrettable that a larger percentage of fact cannot be mixed 
with the scientific deductions to provide a sounder basis for them, but 
therein lies the crux.
Rumors, per se, are harmless. They are wanderings of the mind 
which provides, more than anything else, laughter and a little easing of 
tension. They are an outlet for all the pent-up fears which are all too evi
dent in an organization like the Army. In themselves, rumors are bene
ficial to the man in uniform.
But the major point, the drawback which overshadows all other con
siderations, is that some rumors hit home. It is the old story of smoke and 
fire. If enough rumors are circulated on a certain subject, one of them is 
bound to have more than a grain of truth. And if enough rumors are cir
culated on enough subjects one of them will reach quarters which have 
no business knowing anything about the matter. It is melodramatic to 
talk of spies and saboteurs, but nevertheless, information which is the sole 
property of the Army of the United States has no business being in the 
possession of those who are outside the organization.
This is not a tirade against the invention of rumors; it is a plain state
ment of fact. We are, we believe it or not, members of the Army of the 
United States. As members of this Army, we have access to information 
which is not available to anyone else. We do not have the authority to 
give this information out, consciously or not. It is, therefore, our duty to 
this country and to those G. I.s who might be affected by such a happen
ing, to keep our mouths closed in regard to anything which is not in gen
eral ciruclation.
Rumors are a lot of funbut, Handle With Care.
J. V.
Letter To The Editor
Dear Editor:
No one will question that the Hut canteen is doing a fine job in serv
ing the soldiers and civilians at Tech. There are, however, a few im
provements which seem desirable. One of these is the old business about 
selling milk. It is becoming almost past history that ACAC once said that 
milk would be served at various spots on campus. The congestion at the 
Grill has reduced, and perhaps this is a justifiable reason for deciding not 
to provide milk elsewhere, but the fact remains that many students bring 
their lunches, or have classes crowding their lunch-hours into quarterhours snatched between one and one-fifteen. For these students there is 
certainly a justification for requesting milk.
Another question is that of the hours. Why isnt the Hut open before 
twelve? There might well be plenty of trade to keep the place going, and 
certainly the civilians, if not the Army, are free to use its facilities. There 
would be little need for a full staff, but what about one or two people be
hind the counter?
The Hut is doing a good job. It fills a definite need, and fills it satis
factorily. The only question is whether or not, it could fill it still better. 
Some of the students think that these are some of the possible improve
ments. Practical or impractical, they are ideas. It is only through such 
ideas that improvements can come about. %
Bill Gladstone.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
mCh icaghoh mcaBcg
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief ..........................SC. 6888
Business Manager......................SC. 8951
MMC9CNTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
InS eptmbr, hKaP iaD lrsP iP lP
Chicago  Boston s tnA Aroei.es  Sar Frarcisco P
Entered as second-class matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March S, 1879.Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination period*.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor.......................................................................................................................Louisa Saul
Military Editor.............................................................................Cpl. Allan E. Van Patten
Business Manager............................................................'..................................... Nick Reed
Managing Editors....................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
News Editors................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Pfc. L. M. Van Deusen
Makeup Editors................................................................................... Al Perry, Cy Corwin
Copy Editors ............................................................. Marshall Nuremburg, Nick Georges
feature Editors...........................................................Jerry Brickman, Pfc. James Vaughn
Headline Editor ............................................................................................. Wally Ellman
Printing Editor ........................................................................................... Adeline Herlick
Sports Editors..............................................Marshal Nurenberg, Pfc. Irving Perlmutter
Assistant Business Manager.............................................................................Merle Wolfe
Personnel Manager ............................................................................................ Geri Racusin
Reporters: Alma Weinberger, Lucille Emmel, Jeanne Boltey, Dorothy Caplow,
Jo Svirman, Miriam Frankel, Helen Miller, Ruth Tisherman, Clara Herron, John 
Regal, Anita Newell, Georgette Pal jug, Rosemarie Lang, Mary Jane Horridge, William 
Gladstone, Mary Jane Ferguson, Carolyn Srulson.
Today the war has struck a 
mighty blow to the already weak
ened colleges of this country. Nine
ty percent of the present 2A and 2B 
deferments will soon be cancelled 
only ten thousand civilian students 
will remain in the technical and sci
entific colleges of America. The 
monster that is war put an ever 
greater demand on our armed 
forces, and more and more civilians 
will have to take arms to defend the 
United States on the many fronts.
Of the ten thousand engineering 
and science students who remain 
one hundred and sixty of them at 
Carnegie Techrests a tremendous 
responsibility. Their Anabasis will 
not end with the cry thalasha! 
it will just reach a crucial point 
with the shout of peace. On them 
rests a twofold task  during the 
war they will have to uphold Amer
ican industry and scientific re
search; it will be their job to see 
that more and ever more guns, 
tanks, and planes reach their com
rades in uniform. But once our 
enemies will be conquered they will 
take their place in the front lines 
of democracyfor then the country, 
the world will depend upon them to 
revert our immense resources to 
construction instead of destruction; 
they will have to furnish America 
and the rest of the world with the 
implements of peace which then 
will be as important as the tools of 
war are now. They, as the leaders 
of industry, will have to provide 
employment for the millions of re
turning soldiers; they will have to 
furnish the materials of reconstruc
tion in every country of this world.
But the earth would be in sad 
equilibrium were it to rest on this 
base alone. For sound and lasting 
balance it will need the abstract 
support of international coopera
tion, the intangible aid of democ
racy and liberalism. True, the war 
must be won first, but if we are not 
going to achieve a sound peace pro
gram by lack of thinking and plan
ning we might as well prepare for 
another war. The problems of the 
postwar world are manifold and 
evidentbut answers to them re
quire sound knowledge of the sit
uation.
You who are chosen to continue 
your education as civilians, there
fore, have two tremendous tasks. 
You have been selected among 
many others as the most promising 
future engineers and scientists  
show yourselves worthy of this 
trust. Remember that remaining 
in college is a privilege and that it 
carries a responsibility which you 
cannot escape. Each one of you will 
have to fill an important position in 
industry and research, and in order 
to do that you must absorb as much 
technical knowledge during your 
days at Carnegie Tech as you possi
bly can.
But this is just half of your job. 
The most complete knowledge of 
engineering will be of no use to any
one if you will not be able to apply 
the results of your skill. The tech
nical developments you will orig
inate, the inventions you will make, 
will, after this war, know no fron
tiers, no national limits. The world 
will be the market for your pro
ductsand without the knowledge 
of the international situation you 
will be lost. Furthermore, it will be 
your responsibility as citizen to help 
organize a new world in which you 
and your children will be safe, and 
to do that you must know the faults 
and shortcomings of our present 
status. Newspapers and the War 
Activities Group are as important 
as textbooks and lecturesif you do 
not use the former you ijiight as 
well forget about the latter.
Student Employment .. ACAC Minutes ..
Off Campus
Boys
Driving delivery truck for grocer. Mur
ray Avenue. 65-70c per hour. Any free 
hours, know Squirrel Hill district.
Running lathe for company downtown. 
Mechanical or Electrical Engineer. 65c 
per hour.
AttendantsPsychiatric Hospital; $3.35 
for 8 hours.
HandymanSaturday; home of faculty 
member; 50c per hour.
Boys and Girls 
Counselors for Brashear Association 
Settlement, 3:30-5:30, 7:30-9:30. About 
65c per hour.
Girls
Receptionist Womens Hospital; $2 a 
day, 2 meals.
Care of children, regularly or occa
sionally.
On Campus
Boys
Boiler room helpers, 5-12 during week, 
60c per hour.
Clerk in receiving office, 50c per hour.
Glee Club
The response to last weeks call 
for men for the Glee Club left a 
little to be desired. There is no 
question that the gang is really 
hard up for singers. If you can 
shatter a glass with your voice, fist, 
or hydraulic ram, come out. Al
most any kind of voice is accepta
ble if the added volume is not over
shadowed by the added discord. 
Meeting Monday and Wednesday 
5:00 MMCC Auditorium.
Thirty-third Meeting 
February 9, 1944.
The meeting was called to order at 5:30 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Marcus and Robbins; 
Misses Schadel, Skillington, Rial, and 
Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social
Miss Rial read a petition from the 
Cwens asking for permission to hold an 
all-school dance on February 26 from 
nine until one oclock.
Miss Rial moved that A. C. A. C. ap
prove this petition.
Motion carried.
Miss Rial reported that the date for
merly set for Spring Carnival might be 
changed, because the members of the A. 
S. T. P. want to have an affair similar to 
Spring Carnival later in April. She sug
gested that the two tentative events be 
combined into one.
The members of Council decided that 
the two events should be combined if pos
sible and the date changed to late April. 
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Marcus moved that Mr. Fairchilds 
resignation from A. C. A. C. be accepted.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM,
Secretary.
Notice
There will be an I. R. C. meeting 
today in room 104, M. M. C. C., at 
4:00 oclock. The topic under dis
cussion will be Major Mistakes 
Made After the Last World War. 
Due to mid-semester finals, there 
will be no meeting next week.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the Dogs
One of the most familiar figures 
at Tech is Eric, the General Grant 
on four legs. No one can forget his 
first view of this behemoth, obliter
ating the landscape on one of his 
leisurely strolls around the campus. 
Therefore, when the powers that 
be decided to interview Eric, and I 
discovered that I was to beard the 
lion in his den, my teeth began
beating against each other with an 
amazing rapidity.
When I arrived at the frat, I 
learned that Eric would be receiv
ing visitors shortly. While waiting 
for his majesty, I questioned the 
DUs on Erics acquisition. They' 
said that he came from a Dane farm 
in Columbus, Ohio, and that every
one chipped in and bought him. 
Finally I was admitted to the living 
room where Eric was lying com
fortably in front of the fire. I in
formed him of my misson. He nod
ded his head in approval, pointed to 
a chair, and invited me to be seat
ed. The DUs had told me some of
AST Diversion Offered 
By Current Pictures
I havent got a thing to do this 
Sunday, sighed a listless ASTP 
man. What is the answer to this 
restlessness? Movies! Mr. Rollin V. 
Davis has announced that motion 
pictures will be shown every week 
for the enjoyment of all ASTers on 
Carnegie Techs campus. They are 
all current features which may be 
attended by servicemen. So all 
you men who need a little diversion 
on some future Sunday come to the 
Little Theatre, which is located in 
the front hall of the Fine Arts 
Building. The feature begins at 
two oclock. A list of the pictures 
for each month will be published.
The program for this month is as 
follow^:
The Meanest Man in the
World ..................February 20
Falcon in Danger..........February 27
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
rer.SF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
. . . Eric Von Ellsman
Erics habits so I had a few ques
tions to start out with. His answer 
to my inquiry as to why he allowed 
the mailman to place the mail on 
the table and then refused to let 
him out, was a look that implied his 
impatience with such ridiculous 
questions.
The first thing I learned was that 
his full name is Eric Von Ellsman 
and that his family is one of the 
oldest in Denmark. He recounted 
with a sort of pride that his list of 
victories includes one Delt, and one 
Sigma Nu, bitten; he is now going 
into training for a Beta. Eric seem
ed a little ashamed about the time 
he slipped into the TX pantry and 
enjoyed their dessert and that de
lightful day he walked off with 
SAEs steaks. Since we were on the 
subject of food, he said that he eats 
once a day, but the Delts and SAEs 
feed him constantlyconsequently 
he is fearful of acquiring a bay win
dow.
The most enjoyable time of the 
day for Eric is at noon when he goes 
walking with the DUs. His pride in 
his great size is understandable: he 
weighs 150 pounds stripped (with
out collar) and can jump over the 
senior fence.
Herr Von Ellsman stopped talk
ing and stretched luxuriously. Tak
ing advantage of the pause, I asked 
the two stock questions that any 
Tartan interviewer must use: What 
do you think of Tech women? and 
How do you like being written 
about in the Tartan? The former 
was answered by a simple 
Aroumff! But at the second ques
tion he snarled so unpleasantly that 
I beat a hasty retreat from the room.
On the Record
The program for the daily record 
recitals given in room 157, Fine 
Arts, between 12:00 and 1:00 is as 
follows:
Tuesday, February 15
Symphony No. 4....................Brahms
Wednesday, February 16 
Request program
Thursday, February 17
Pierrot Lunaire............Schoenberg
Friday, February 18 
Request progtam
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIAS MOST COM
PLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
FPDGEFS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
2)*. IdJaAxHe+t . . .
Continued from page 1 
public occasions including the Bac
calaureate, Commencement, and 
Carnegie Day when it was held. He 
was also a member of the Calendar 
and Schedules Historical Records, 
and Publications Committees. From 
1938 to 1939 he was Dean of Men 
and again Secretary of the Execu
tive Board.
Later, Dr. Warden played an im
portant part in two recent major 
administrative changes. Under the 
supervision of President Doherty, 
he served as Chairman of a Commit
tee that merged the Departments of 
Intercollegiate Athletics, Intramur
al Athletics, and Physical Education 
into the Division of Physical Wel
fare. He is now a member of the Ad
ministrative Committee of this new 
division. Again working under the 
supervision of President Doherty, 
he organized the Division of Stu
dent Personnel and Welfare in 1939, 
and became its director. As direc
tor he was in charge of the coordi
nation of the administrative commitees and supervised such units of 
the Division as the Office of Regis
trar, the Office of the Dean of Stu
dents, the Department of Student 
Health, the Bureau of Placements, 
and the Bureau of Measurement 
and Guidance. At the same time 
he became Dean of Students and 
continued as the Secretary of the 
Executive Committee.
Administrative activities do not 
take up all of Director Wardens 
time. He also belongs to the Delta 
Upsilon, Gamma Eta Gamma, Del
ta Sigma Pi, Phi Kappa Phi, Alpha 
Phi Omega, and Omicron Delta 
Kappa fraternities. He is a member 
of the National Association of Deans 
and Advisors to Men, and served 
on the Executive Committee of that 
organization in 1943.
The entire Campus wishes Dr. 
Warden the best of luck in his new 
position in the armed forces of the 
United States, and hopes that he 
will return to Carnegie Tech soon 
to carry on the excellent work he 
has already started in the years that 
he has been there.
mm
#
rs aeeta^
IS takeV^rV callsb0aldA?ai'e'ow4ea "U Jot artie boards ar ckatteT1& pfcs oi
shortage f els ate VxeV n ueVf
opera10 cvStetocalc**
TekUTcorfe k' realce
^for^^:Viot9tolagtapfe yyUaiO'=
 eiM-viOo so s\&\ Wad,_T._&o
^iCaU fm beUeimportai
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy 
... That*s why your call may be delayed.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 144
Swcuiika *7o
Young German Golf King Swings 
Right At The Fuehrers Face
Under the microscope, the first 
issue of the youthful term, is Cpl. 
Frederick H. Gann, an individual 
modeled on the general lines of an 
Apollo, soft-voiced, brilliant, im
mensely popular. This young man 
has experienced a past which reads 
like an echo of Berlin Diary, or 
Inside Nazi Germany, born and 
raised in Potsdam, Prussia.
Fred, attended the University of 
Berlin back in those days when 
Hitler and his mad schemes were 
beginning to seethe under the cloak 
of assumed righteousness. While 
there he gained a workable knowl
edge of English, which he now 
speaks almost perfectly, along with 
French, Italian, Dutch, Rhaetian, 
and Spanish, the last of which he is 
now in the process of digesting. 
His studies were interrupted by 
compulsory service with the Labor 
Battalions in October of 1936.
A life of virtual slavery opened. 
Training was of the most brutal 
type imaginable. There was the 
famous German contribution to the 
making of a man into a slogging 
robotthe goose-step, taught by 
loading a man with full equipment 
and forcing him to balance on one 
leg, the other extended at nothing 
less than right angles from the body 
for varying periods of time. There 
ivas the ditch-construction work, 
often done in several feet of slimy 
water. There were full-pack night 
marches accomplished without 
lights, at several minutes notice, 
and with only a compass bearing for 
direction. The strong became part 
of the Greater Germany. The 
weak perishedthey were unfit.
Following six nightmarish months 
under this system, Fred found him
self scheduled for two years service 
in the regular army. However, an 
opportunity for freedom now devel
oped, its basis in near tragedy.
Freds father had been a banker, 
one of the most influential in Ger
many, and one, who, strangely 
enough, foresaw at an early date the 
future of Germany under Nazism. 
(Fred himself was, for the years be
tween 1930-33, a member of the 
Stahlhelm Jung, a youth organiza
tion under the Republic, which 
fought the Hitler movement.) He 
had spent many years in the United 
States, England, France, Persia, and 
South America, and possessed a 
keen insight into world affairs. He 
predicted the ultimate plans of the
haughty paper-hanger: Verstaatlichun, complete federation of in
dustry, and a ruinous, disastrous 
war. Consequently, he labored un
ceasingly against the growing pow
er of the Brown Shirts, and was ar
rested in the Great Purge of 1934. A 
series of well-placed tokens of es
teem (good Reichsmarks) were 
sufficient to secure his incarceration 
in the family home in Potsdam, a 
castle which had once belonged to 
Czar Alexander III, together with 
fifty fellow prisoners, Socialists for 
the greater part. Some of the 
atrocities practiced on several of 
these unfortunates can be visualized 
by anyone who has read Out of 
the Night. A short time later he 
contrived his escape to England.
It is little wonder that Fred had 
determined to follow suit. This 
was accomplished by the applica
tion of a series of gifts to a long 
line of thorough but corrupt of
ficials who were already giving evi
dence of being worthy disciples of 
The New Order. Permission was 
gained for a vacation, actually a fur
lough, to visit an uncle in Holland. 
Fred duly set out, carrying with 
him all the law allowedthe equiv
alent of $2 50 and sufficient clothing 
for precisely a fortnight. A last 
outpouring of pfennig procured an 
indefinite extension for the fur
lough.
A period of drifting from position 
to position with banking firms in 
Amsterdam, Paris, and London fol
lowed. At last, in August of 1938, 
the opportunity for coming to the 
United States presented itself. Fred 
was not slow in seizing it, and, 
shortly thereafter, landed in New 
York.
He was drafted on February 12, 
1942, an auspicious date for the 
beginning of any American career. 
After serving some fourteen months 
with an anti-tank unit, the ASTP 
decided that this polished chap re
quired a bit more gilding and secur
ed him for training under a differ
ent sort of system.
An all but perfect illustration of 
the Nazi principle lies in Fred 
Ganns love of a certain sport, 
namely golf. In his own words:
Liking golf very much, I played 
hard at it and became National Am
ateur Champion of Germany for 
three years, and holder of several 
Austrian and Czechoslovak trophies 
as well. After I had escaped to 
England in 1938, I was notified that
2>*. ^b&ke'Uif. . . .
Continued from page 1 
recognized ability in the electrical 
engineering field.
The Institute was founded Febru
ary 24, 1887 and gained its present 
title by an Act of Parliament in 
April, 1918. Numbered among its 
founders is the famous consulting 
engineer, Casimir Gzowski. Today, 
its members represent the finest en
gineering talent in Canada, who 
carry on the Institutes objective: 
to advance the scientific and engi
neering knowledge of each member 
and to set a high standard of pro
fessional competence and ethics 
among engineers.
Dr. Doherty was to have attended 
the Institutes annual meeting in 
Montreal on Friday to receive his 
certificate of membership. How
ever, illness has prevented him from 
making the trip. H. H. Henline, 
Secretary of the American Institute 
of Electrical Engineers, will accept 
the certificate in Dr. Dohertys be
half.
V-12 C&amA. . . .
Continued from page 1 
The following C. I. T. men were 
successful in their application for 
enlistment in the Navy V-12 college 
program given last year:
Ambrose, Robert M.
Bean, Theo. B., Jr.
Berggren, John J. A.
Cook, Wm. S.
Davis, Marshall E.
Gazda, Theodore E.
Krummell, John D.
Miller, Jock R.
Mower, Wm. H.
Reilley, Victor B.
Straka, Robert C.
Walton, Delbert E.
White, Chas. R.
Zehnder, Calvin T.
Berkowitz, Ralph D.
Bowen, James O., Jr.
Daly, Wm. G.
Duff, Samuel E.
Hahn, Jerome P.
Hugus, John A.
Kelly, Jos. L.
Mayer, Wm. J.
Moore, Paul F.
Shutzer, L. L.
the title was in danger and was 
guaranteed a safe passage to and 
from Germany by the Sportsfuehrer 
himself if I would agree to return 
and defend it. I won again and 
reached the border slightly ahead of 
the Gestapo, warned by a friend 
that my life was in danger.
My family and I were not good 
enough to be allowed to live as Ger
mans under the New Order, but I, 
son of a former political prisoner, 
was good enough to be used to gain 
one bit more of glory for das vaterland.
GET HEPPED 
ON YOUR HIT PARADE
BY BUYING 
HIT RECORDS
ATMAJESTIC 
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bldg.
Dr. Robt. Mehl On 
Good Neighbor Tour
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, Director of 
the Metals Research Laboratory and 
Head of the Department of Metal
lurgical Engineering at Carnegie 
Tech, left last week for Brazil to 
lecture at the Escola Politecnica of 
the University of Sao Paulo on ad
vanced practices in the application 
of the science of metallurgy in the 
United States. During his stay in 
Brazil he will also inspect mines 
and plants all over the country, con
fer with students and engineers, and 
advise and assist Brazilian indus
tries. His plans include visits to 
Argentina and the West Coast of 
South America. The entire trip will 
take almost four months, with three 
months in Brazil, and three weeks 
traveling.
Dr. Mehl is one of the three 
American scientists to go to Brazil 
under the joint auspices of the of
fice of Nelson A. Rockefeller, Coor
dinator of Inter-American Affairs 
and the Escola Politecnica. The 
project is administered by Stevens 
Institute of Technology through the 
Coordinators office. Dr. A. Allan 
Bates, manager of the chemical and 
metallurgical department of Westinghouse Electric and Manufactur
ing Company research laboratories, 
opened the series of lectures at Sao 
Paulo last summer. Dr. Mehl will 
be followed by Professor Arthur 
Phillips of the Hammond Metal
lurgical Laboratory, Yale Univer
sity.
Dr. Mehl left from Miami by 
plane last Sunday, and, after stops 
at Trinidad and Belem, will arrive 
today in Rio de Janeiro. The first 
two weeks of his tour will be spent 
in Brazil visiting plants, and the 
first of his lectures will be given on 
March 1. Each week he will deliv
er two or three formal lectures to 
industrialists in the community of 
Sao Paulo. He will also hold con
ferences with students, engineers, 
and industry at both the Escola Pol
itecnica and Institueo de Pesquizas. 
In preparation for the trip Dr. Mehl 
has been studying Portuguese for 
five months. His lectures, which 
will stress the physical metallurgy 
of iron and steel, will be delivered 
partly in Portuguese and partly in 
English.
The American scientist will assist 
the University authorities in devel
oping a curriculum in metallurgical 
engineering. In connection with 
this, Dr. Mehl will take with him 
lecture notes in bibliofilm of all the 
metallurgical courses, undergradu
ate and graduate, taught at Car
negie Tech, and present them to the 
Escola. According to those mem
bers of the Coordinators staff who 
have been instrumental in the form
ulation of the project, it is antici
pated that concrete technical results 
of considerable importance to the 
United Nations war production 
may be expected from the project 
and that it will also be beneficial 
from the viewpoint of hemisphere 
relations.
Sao Paulo, where most of the ac
tivities will be centered, is known 
as the Pittsburgh of South Amer
ica. Its industries and population 
are growing at an amazing rate. It 
is 40 miles from the ocean, and in 
addition to being South Americas 
largest industrial center, from its 
port is shipped all the coffee used 
in the United States.
YOU CANT LOSE{MlYOU CARRY TRAVELERS CHEQUES!
Thats right! Because if your American Express Travelers Cheques are 
lost, stolen, or destroyed uncountersigned, American Express will 
promptly refund your loss. These Cheques are handy to carry, the size 
of a dollar bill and are readily spendable anywhere.
American Express Travelers Cheques are issued in denominations of 
$10, $20, $50 and $100. The cost is % of 1% (75 on each $100 
purchased), minimum 40fi. For sale at Banks, and Railway Express offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
TRAVELERS CHEQUES

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
A'utuf, Go+tisiact
Actually Carnegie Is 
Making No Profit
By Clara Herron
In view of the fact that there has 
been considerable interest shown on 
campus both by the civilian and 
ASTP students toward the contrac
tual basis on which the Army pro
gram operates at Carnegie, and 
since there appear to be many misderstandings as to the financial ar
rangements between the college and 
the Army, it has been decided that 
certain pertinent facts be publish
ed during the next few weeks in 
the Tartan for the edification of 
the students.
One of the questions most often 
heard from all quarters is, Just 
who is making money on this deal? 
The answer is that neither the Unit
ed States War Department nor Car
negie Institute of Technology makes 
any financial profit from the edu
cational agreement made. The con
tract is set up on strictly an actual 
cost basis. The policy of the U. S. 
War Department in relation to all 
the Army college programs in the 
nation is to compensate a non
profit educational institution on a 
basis of actual costs incurred by 
that institution in furnishing the fa
cilities and services used by the 
Army. Under this policy, it can 
be clearly seen that there is no 
profit accruing to any college oper
ating under Army contract.
A study of the general plan of 
financial maintenance agreed upon 
by the school and the Army may 
serve to clarify matters and to con
vince all interested parties of the 
fairness of the contract. Carnegies 
part of the bargain is to furnish the 
Army students with the following 
facilities necessary for their main
tenance and their educational ad
vancement. The school will furnish 
space for living quarters, class
rooms, laboratories, and infirmary 
requirements. It will furnish sup
plies and labor needed in messing, 
housing, and medical care. It will 
also provide instructors in the 
courses to be taught to the AST stu
dents. The Army will pay directly 
for all books used by the ASTP and 
Language and Area men and these 
books will be considered the prop
erty of the United States Govern
mentnot the individual Army 
man. For the services provided by 
the college the Army will compen
sate the school in the following 
manner: For the use of facilities
such as classrooms, laboratories, and 
the mess hall, a certain percentage 
of the value of the actual space used
YOU AND YOUR
OUT-OF-TOWN FRIENDS
Will find comfortable accommodations
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make reservations well in 
advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
TECH MEN AND WOMEN ARE 
ESPECIALLY WELCOME
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Oppoiite Mellon Institute
MAyflower 7700
Way Of The World 
Slightly Out Of It
By Hanna Esterman
After the trend towards realism 
shown in the Drama Departments 
last three productions, The Way oj 
the World is a refreshing change. 
The current presentation at the Lit
tle Theater is a typical play of the 
Restoration period, a broad satire 
on the upper class life of the time. 
Subtlety was unknown in those 
days, and each of the characters is 
exaggerated to make him the em
bodiment of some particular trait. 
Evn the names of the characters 
give a clue as to what one may ex
pect of them.
In keeping with his spirit, the 
acting and the scenery are highly 
stylized. The whole production is 
strongly reminiscent of Fashion, 
which some of you may remember 
as one of the most delightful pre
sentations of past seasons. Unlike 
Fashion, however, The Way of the 
World is not a musical comedy 
which has no other purpose than 
satire. It was written more for the 
amusement of fashionable society 
than for its edification, and there is 
room for doubt whether it should 
not be played a little less broadly 
than it is in the present production.
Be that as it may, the show as it 
stands is highly entertaining. The 
plot is extremely complicated, and 
we arent going to help you out by 
telling you what its all about  it 
took us until the middle of the sec
ond act to catch on, so why should 
we make it easy for you?
The acting, although not altogeth
er superlative, is generally compeexclusively by the Army will be 
paid to Carnegie on a monthly basis 
at a fixed rate comparable to ac
cepted depreciation rates. For act
ual educational equipment, the col
lege is compensated by an annual 
allowance also comparable to 
normal depreciation ratespracti
cally the same standards used for 
taxing purposes being employed. 
Instruction, medical care, Mainten
ance and Operations, and housing 
and care of classrooms, will be paid 
for on the basis of the strength of 
the Army force on campus per 
month. Under the heading of sub
sistence, or meesing, the Army will 
pay on a cost per man per day basis.
Further explanation of the con
tract will be printed next week.
Let's go to
eSAtY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Alliea
tent, and in some cases, exceptional. 
A single bad performance is often 
enough to spoil a whole show, as has 
often been demonstrated by the 
Drama Department, but, at least in 
the cast this reviewer saw, there 
was no such bad performance. One 
serious fault of almost the whole 
cast is that, as with Shakespeare, the 
players are apt to fall over their 
tongues in pronouncing the outmod
ed English making it difficult to un
derstand them well. This fault com
bined with the old-fashioned lan
guage which would be hard to un
derstand anyhow makes following 
the windings and turnings of the 
plot more confusing than ever. The 
chief offender in this direction is 
Marquis Patterson; we hope that he 
will learn to overcome it for in all 
other ways he is a very handsome 
and convincing leading man. Mary 
Laura Wood as the heroine was 
very beautiful and charming but 
acting honors go to Rita Sheinman 
in the difficult part of the old widow 
anxious to remarry. She gave an 
excellent performance and we are 
really interested in seeing whether 
Miss Strober, who is double in the 
same role, can do as well. Next to 
Miss Sheinman in our opinion
In a letter from a former Tech 
student, Lee Levine, Lee tells us 
that Navy life isnt so sweet after 
all. We quote him:
Florida! Land of milk, honey, 
and free and easy women. The milk 
is dehydrated, the free and easy 
women are about as safe as a shepanther suffering from apolexy, 
and who likes honey anyhow?
In my length of service with the 
United States armed forces (1 year 
come November ) I feel that I have 
come to know Florida fairly well. 
Eleven months of the best years of 
my life have been squandered in 
Florida. I hit Jacksonville in Jan
uary of 1943 after a gruelling ten 
weeks of boot camp in a darling 
little mud hole called Bainbridge, 
Md., but thats another story. As I 
said, I hit Jacksonville, and was im
mediately informed that this 
wasnt Florida at all, not the real 
Florida. This was merely southern 
Georgia! O. K., so I spent three 
months in southern Georgia, and all 
the while my return address was 
Jacksonville, Florida. Whos crazy?
I spent three months there Rook
ing for some of that Southern hos
pitality, exalted in fiction and fa
ble. Not only was it lacking, it was 
downright non-existent!
Having served my time in Jack
sonville, the U. S. N. trundled me 
off to Pensacola, the Annapolis of 
the air! All my childhood dreams 
were to be realized. For years I 
had seen movies and read stories 
about Pensacola. All the movie 
heroes took their cadet training at 
Pensacola. A veritable heaven!
Well, here I am at Pensacola, but 
its not the real Florida. Its merely 
southern Alabama. Ive been in 
Southern Alabama for seven
stands Frank Stevens in the part 
of the unsophisticated country 
cousin, the only really human char
acter in the play. Mr. Stevens plays 
the clown with becoming restraint, 
even in his drunk scene, which is 
extremely gratifying in view of his 
strong tendency towards over
acting.. Milton Levine and Clark 
Marlor seems to be enjoying them
selves thoroughly as two young 
fops, roles very similar to that they 
played in Fashion. The rest of the 
cast comes under the classification 
of good, but not deserving of spec
ial attention.
The parts of the girls are double 
cast, the other set playing the sec
ond half of the run. The play di
rected by Mary Morris, with scen
ery designed by Richard V. Hare, 
dances arranged by Genevieve 
Jones and music by Milton Levine, 
will run until Friday, February 18.
In this our first critical venture 
we had hoped to pan a play thor
oughly, but somewhat to our disap
pointment we find that we cannot. 
If the rest of the seasons produc
tions are up to The Way of the 
World in quality Tech students are 
in line for some delightful theater
going!
months and my address is Pensa
cola, Florida.
The inhabitants are a bit more 
congenial, especially the cock
roaches. Jacksonville cockroaches 
were a bit snooty, but these babies 
are quite chummy. Perhaps it is be
cause they are more mature and 
have been around.
Every morning I peek in my lock
er and catch them at play. Instantly 
they hit for nooks and crannies, but 
soon their shyness wears off and I 
muster them in. All are present 
and accounted for. In fact, a few 
have brought friends. These new
comers invariably find my locker 
so accommodating that they stick 
around for a fortnight. But on the 
whole they are well behaved little 
chaps. However, as in all societies, 
there is always a wise guy in the 
crowd, such as the rusty old char
acter who was using my toothbrush 
to groom his fur, or feathers or 
whatever the hell a cockroach has.
Youve heard about Florida mos
quitoes. Probably what youve 
heard is a bit exaggerated. They are 
not as large as bats; only three men 
can ride comfortably on them. One 
got lost in a squadron the other day 
and a second class Aviation Me
chanic gassed him up with twelve 
gallons before he realized the mis
take.
But then, Ive never seen Florida, 
not the real Florida.
ARE YOU A BLOOD DONOR?
The Pittsburgh quota for blood 
donors will be raised in March to 
5500 pints a month. So far C.I.T. 
has only 950 volunteers from the 
soldier and civilian body. Cant 
we do better than that? It is our 
patriotic duty to donate blood and 
thereby help to lessen the casualty 
lists. Wont YOU help? Sign up 
in the Administration Building.
^ale in Khaki . . .
By Jerry Brickman

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944
s
OLDIER 
PORT 
L A N TS
Monday, February 14, marked the 
beginning of the second Company 
Basketball League. The League 
last term had many obstacles which 
almost thwarted its success. The 
flu epidemic was, of course, the 
chief obstacle. Mistakes may have 
been made last season, but these er* rors were noted. Using these errors 
as a basis for revision, a smooth 
functioning league has been plan
ned.
A non-commissioned officer will 
supervise every league game this 
term. The use of these men will be 
an excellent method of preventing 
the petty and utterly distasteful 
lack of sportsmanship which arose 
occasionally last term.
A roster of capable and competent 
officials has been made. An ade
quate number of these officials has 
been assigned to each game. This 
measure will indubitably prevent 
the reoccurrence of a referee short
age such as existed last term.
Without a doubt, many things 
were learned in the administration 
of the league. This writer is joy
ous indeed to see that an attempt 
is being made to rectify those inac
curacies which were previously evi
dent. To those who prompted these 
attempts, we give our heart-felt 
thanks. We are glad to see the 
League off to a successful start and 
we are sure that it will complete its 
schedule just as successfully.
* * *
An interesting record was broken 
in the Regimental-Camp Reynolds 
game Saturday night. Steve Gaza 
broke the existing record for the 
number of points scored on the Car
negie Tech basketball floor by one 
player in one game. The record was 
held by Mel Cratesly with 34 points. 
Gaza netted himself 37 in the last 
game . . . Nice shooting, Steve.
I. M. P.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$828jj $3.00 per 
S Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
__SPORTS
Start, of the. Week
Sailor-To-Be Joe Kelly Leads 
Carnegie Cagers Offense
Any ardent basketball fan who 
has paid a recent visit to the Skibo 
gym could hardly leave without 
having noticed Carnegies scrappy 
forward, Joe Kelly. Joe, who has 
been the chief offensive threat of 
the Tartan five throughout most of 
the season, probably hit the peak 
of his basketball career against 
Westminster when he astounded 
everyone present by scoring 30 
points on the small New Wilming
ton floor. After the half, the game 
became a scoring duel between 
Kelly and the Titans giant center 
Noble Jorgenson. Jorgenson, how
ever, was held by the much small
er Carnegie quintete to only 21 
points.
Varsity sports are no novelty to 
Joe, as he was a member of virtual
ly every team on the Avonworth 
High School athletic curriculum. 
Nevertheless, his favorite sport has 
always been basketball, and he still 
likes to recall the games he played 
with the Avonworth iron men. 
That was one team, remarked 
Joe, on which every member of 
the first team played the entire four 
quarters. Incidentally, in Kellys 
senior year Avonworth won the 
class B WPIAL championship, and 
no Avonworth team has been able 
to do it again.
When the basketball season was 
over, Joe dusted off his glove and 
decided to try his hand at a little 
baseball. Shortstop was his favor
ite position, and he must have been 
a pretty good one as he was elected 
captain of the team. At the con
clusion of the baseball season, Kelly
Everybody Is Happy 
As Tartans Triumph
Anyone who missed the Case 
game really missed a gay time. The 
real fun started after the victory 
was won. Practically everyone 
present was in a state of wild jubi
lation, especially the team.
With captain Jack Sherman, who 
played a beautiful game, comforta
bly riding on the shoulders of four 
of his teammates, the boys marched 
down to the dressing room. In the 
midst of the singing, head manager 
Leon Levy entered the den of mer
riment. Mr. Levy was last seen 
heading in the direction of the 
showers escorted by the team. In
cidentally, Leon was fully clothed 
and dressed for a date.
Also on hand to greet the boys 
was Mr. Burns. Very few Techites 
know Mr. Burns, but he has attend
ed practically every game this sea
son, including those on the road.
C. S. EDMANPRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
rounded out his sports program by 
playing quarterback for the football 
team. Anyone who played against 
the Independents in last seasons in
tramural football is familiar with 
Joes effectiveness on the gridiron.
Next Saturday against Geneva, 
Joe will play his last game for Car
negie, as he is leaving for the navy 
on March 1. When he leaves, he 
should have plenty of fond memor
ies of his days at Carnegie, and one 
of the best should be the fact that 
he came within four points of the 
high scoring record set by Mel 
Cratesly against West Virginia.
Duffets shoots one in the Case game 
* * *
Next Saturday 
Carnegie-Geneva 
ASTP-Sharpsville Merchants
Carnegie Five Trips 
Case In Close Game 
To Win First Victory
At last the boys on the basketball 
team have succeeded in winning a 
game for Max. By now, I suppose 
that every student on campus is 
reasonably familiar with the details 
of the victory over Case. However, 
the season is still not over, and we 
can all hope that last Saturday 
nights victory was merely the be
ginning of a delayed winning 
streak.
For the first six minutes of the 
opening period, things looked rather 
black for the Tartan five, but when 
captain Jack Sherman sunk a beau
tiful long shot the Skibos began to 
roll. By the end of the first quar
ter, Carnegie had the early Case 
lead whittled down to one point. 
The score at that stage of the game 
was 7-6.
Joe Kelly began to find the range 
as the second quarter got under 
way, and his four points put Car
negie out in front by a 10-7 score. 
From that point on, the battle see
sawed back and forth with neither 
team able to hold anything re
sembling a decisive lead. At the 
half, Case was on the long end of 
a 22-21 score.
What Max said to the boys during 
intermission was pretty effective, 
because the Tartans really got mov
ing in the third period and at the 
end of it they were out in front by 
nine points. At the start of the third 
period, Sherman proved himself to 
be quite a long shot ace. He took 
two in a row and made them both, 
which must have rather been dis
couraging to coach Jeff Carlin of 
Case.
During the fourth quarter, the 
Rough Riders fought desperately in 
a final attempt to ward off defeat. 
With two minutes left to play, they 
succeeded in reducing the Tartan 
lead to one point. When things be
gan to look gloomy,- however, Jack 
Sherman once again came to the 
rescue; this time via the foul line. 
His charity toss was the final point 
scored by either side, and the Tar
tans emerged victorious 44-42.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech Case
Kelly, f........... 17 p,Zwiesler, f.... 8 P.
. 7 P.Foulke, f.......4 P.
Shott, ..,c.... 2 P.Groniger, c.. 2 P.
Hathaway, g... 7 P.Clark, ...g...19 P.
Festenstein, c.. OP.Jarosz, g. ..6 P.
Sherman, g..2 P.
1 P.
Landon, f.... OP.
Lund, c.......... OP.
Dance 
Where It's Young and Gay 
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on th
CONTINENTAL
Flu Tax? * iiC
* * * niiiTl
85
$UHi

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
at
icmpuA ilhcghaA
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
Tech ASTP.... 63 
Camp Reynolds 50
Finding the hoop with the unfail
ing accuracy of a howitzer, the onehanded push shots of Steve Gaza, 
center for the ASTP five, spelled the 
difference between the Carnegie 
Tech and Camp Reynolds service 
quintets as the former team surged 
ahead in the last half to win 63-50, 
Saturday night. The former Indi
ana University star deluged the 
basket with 37 points, 27 of which 
were garnered in the last half of the 
game. The 3302nd Service Unit 
Regimental Basketball team has 
every right to the mythical service 
championship of Western Pennsyl
vania.
The local quintet piled up a 9-3 
lead before the up-state boys found 
the range and closed the gap to 15- 
13 at the end of the first quarter. 
The lead see-sawed in the second 
stanza. Camp Reynolds tied the 
Uniteers at 19 all and then went 
ahead to 21-19 with two fouls. Two 
field goals by Gaza at this point 
pulled the ASTP ahead by two 
markers. A score by Reynolds tied 
it up again at 23-23. A field goal 
by Cranmer finished the first half 
with Tech AST ahead 25-23.
Again in the second half, the lo
cals started fast and established an 
eight point lead before their op
ponents scored. With Acker hitting 
the hoop consistently, the Camp 
Reynolds quintet whittled away at 
their handicap to trail 40-37 at the 
end of the third quarter.
Gaza drew first blood in the final 
period with a two-pointer that 
brought the tally to 42-37. He fol
lowed this with seven more field 
goals and a foul to bring his total to 
17 points for one quarter. This scor
ing rampage stymied the visitors 
threat. Cranmer threw in the last 
bucket of the game to end it 63-50.
Bob Renner, the six-foot-eight 
center from Camp Reynolds, lead 
his team in dunking in eighteen 
points.
TechP.Camp ReynoldsP.
Cranmer, f. ... .13Kane, f...............
Chapman, f. ..mCooper, f...........1
Gaza, c.............17Butler, c...........8
De Bortoli, g.... 3Acker, g............11
Brown, g........... 0Lambert, g. .... 4
Kennedy, f. .... 0
Renner, c.........18
1* *Scott, f.............?,
Campbell, g. ... 2
Total ..........63Total ............50
SPORTS
League Leaders Meet Defeat 
In Scrambled Intramural Race
Proof that any thing can happen in be easy victims for the victory 
intramural basketball can be easily starved Kappa Sigs. Kappa Sigs 
obtained by examining the results really swished the hoops in trimof last weeks games. At the beginming the DUs 30 to16. 
ning of the week, we felt that the Thursday evening proved to be 
race would be limited to the the grand finale of a hectic week. In 
SAEs, Delts, and Tau Delts, with the opening game, the unbeaten Tau 
every other team left out of the Delts were matched against winless 
running; however, each of these Citcom.
teams met defeat last week. Citcom must have been practicing
The opening game was between all week for this game however, for 
the DUs and the SAEs. Much to the league leaders were unable to 
everyones surprise the DUs, who dent the commuters stout defense, 
had not won a game, upset the SAE and as a result wound up on the
aggregation by a 19-17 score. In the short end of a 31-18 score. In the
second game of the same evening, nightcap, the SAEs bounced back 
the Tau Delts continued their wininto the scrambled race by defeatning streak by defeating a rather ing the Delts 25-22. 
strong Beta five 20-17. League Standings
Tuesdays first contest was beTeam Won Lost
tween the unbeaten Delts and the Delta Tau Delta........ 3 1
Beta Sigs. Throughout the first Tau Delta Phi ............ 3 1
half the game was exceptionally Sigma Alpha Epsilon .. 2 1
close, but in the last period the Beta Beta Theta Pi .............. 2 2
Sigs began to fade and the Delts Beta Sigma Rho.......... 1 2
emerged the victors by an 18-11 Citcom ......................... 1 2
score. The DUs must have had Delta Upsilon ............ 1 2
quite a gay time after their victory Kappa Sigma................ 1 2
over the SAEs, as they proved to Theta Xi ....................... 1 1
Company Basketball League 
Starts Schedule This Week
The Company Basketball League The five teams will be Company 
is scheduled to start its second proA team, Company B team, 
gram Monday the fourteenth of Company C team; D and the 
February. The first three games reserves will comprise the fourth
scheduled to be played are: A
versus C Monday, C versus D  ^ laroerJ  team. As the companies are larger,
on Tuesday, and E  versus A on each company, it is hoped, will have 
Wednesday. more material from which to draw
The schedule has been planned so and will therefore have better 
as to allow each of the five teams to teams this season. Much interest
play two games per week. The has been displayed on the question
games will be played in the girls of which team will win the comgym at six oclock. pany basketball league this season.
Unit Team Bows To 
Mellon Institute, 52-45
In a closely-fought scrap at the 
Skibo Gym, the regimental cagers 
dropped a tough one to the team 
from Mellon Institute, 52-45. The 
locals, without the services of Steve 
Gaza, put up a real scrap, with 
Chapman notching a 6-3-15, and 
Cranmer on his heels with 6-2-14 
for his nights work. For the visit
ors, Skiles, a Bellevue High pro
duct, and Haines, from Bucknell, 
each chipped in 24 markers to ac
count for 48 of Mellons 52 points.
The first quarter gave a preview 
of things to come, with both teams 
using a fast break. Tech led at one 
time 16-10, but the score at the end 
of the period was 16-16. The second 
stanza ran the score to 19-19, where 
the visitors moved ahead, never to 
be stopped up to a 28-23 margin at 
half-time.
The third quarter continued the 
seesaw action and the G. I. hoopsters managed to knot the count 
once again at 30-30. The boys from 
the Institute forged ahead 39-33, and 
then led by 5 points at the end of 
the third period, 40-35. With 7 min
utes to go, Capt. Pickrels lads tied 
up the ball game for the last time, 
40-40. Skiles sent the Mellonites 
ahead with 2 fouls and a field goal, 
and they were never in trouble 
again.
Our boys put up a hard, clean 
game, but against two hot players 
like Skiles and Haines, they couldnt 
quite match the pace. Its hard to 
single out any individual starthey 
played more as a team than as in
dividuals.
TechT.P.MellonT.P...14Skiles ......... .. .24Monroe............ 0Haines... .24..15Samson__0.. 0Phelps.. . . 0.. 4Whipple ....... 4De Bortoli. .. 5Petrich. . . . 0Van Wooden ,... 2__ 0... 3
1
1
45
52
RefereeKnight; UmpireKostecki.
Have a Coca-Cola = Heres to old times
It* natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tion*. That* why you hear 
Coca-Cola called Coke.
...or welcoming home a sailor son
There is real welcome in a snack shared in the kitchen. With 
ice-cold Coca-Cola to add refreshment, you have all the makings 
for a good time. As our men in camp and overseas so often tell, 
theres no more cordial invitation than Have a Coke. At your 
icebox, the same as in P. X.'s around the globe, Coca-Cola stands 
for the pause that refreshes, has become the global symbol of 
American hospitality.
BOTTLED UNDER AUmHPFemY PF mHE iPiA-iPtA iPrPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY. PITTSBURGH, PA*

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1944Situ Carnecjie plaid
Major C. B. Stanton 
Is Now Supervisor 
Of Evening School
When he isnt on his way to the 
King Edward for a man-size lunch, 
Mr. Charles B. Stanton (better 
known to his many friends as Ma
jor) can be found in his modernly furnished office in Industries
Hall. His position as Supervisor of 
the Evening School and the Sum
mer Session is only one of his many 
duties on the campus.
A veteran of World War I, he 
spent two years in France where he 
served as captain and major with 
the 15th Engineers, A. E. F.: dur
ing the last few months in the serv
ice, he was assistant to the director, 
A. E. F. University, College of En
gineering, Cote DOr, Beaune, 
France.
He came to Carnegie Tech in 1911 
as a member of the Department of 
Civil Engineering where he con
ducted courses in railroad engineer
ing, highway engineering, transpor
tation, and surveying; for years he 
operated the summer surveying 
camp. In 1940 he was relieved of 
his teaching duties to carry on his 
important work as administrator of 
Techs war training program, which 
includes Allegheny, Geneva, Wash
ington and Jefferson and Westmin
ster Colleges. The establishment of 
the Army Specialized Training Pro
gram last year placed new responsi
bilities on his shoulders because of 
his appointment as liason officer 
for the local unit. Being president 
of the Pittsburgh section of the 
American Society of Civil Engineers 
is just a sideline, he says.
Major Stanton and his charming 
wife (his childhood sweetheart) are 
frequently seen at evening school 
social affairs. In pre-war days, when 
one had vacations, they traveled all 
over the United States, especially in 
Washington and California. TTiey 
always beam with pride at the men
tion of their four grandchildren and 
two sons, one of whom is serving as 
a lieutenant (j. g.) in the Navy. Mrs. 
Stanton is active in civilian defense 
work as well as in womens affairs 
here at school.
The Majors only hobby now, he 
says, is trying to keep all his jobs 
going. People who procastinate are 
his pet peeve. He believes in getThings to Think About
(This is the third in a series of articles 
discussing the decline of registration in 
the evening school).
After the first shock caused by 
the curtailed registration has worn 
off one looks around to see what is 
signified by the drop. It was noted 
that there was considerable shift
ing in occupational employment and 
district movement. We now find a 
distinct shifting in classroom 
study, types of study, and jurisdic
tional study. The last named move
ment is very significant since it 
changes the purchaser of the courses 
of study, if one may so use the 
word.
The jurisdictional aspect has by 
far the largest significance. The gov
ernment has altered the picture 
somewhat by stepping in and as
suming some of the financial re
sponsibilities and aspects which 
heretofore were the problems of the 
students.
Take for instance the large num
ber of civilans who have been reg
istering under the Civilian Defense 
Program, or those who are regis
tering for the present Engineering, 
Science and Management War 
Training Program. These classes 
are being given at Carnegie Tech 
as well as at the Pennsylvania State 
College and the University of Pitts
burgh.
The program is sponsored by the 
U. S. Office of Education. The 
courses of study constitute a pro
gram of war training which is uni
que for the period, although very 
essential. When classes first started 
under the new war program there 
was a large group of former stu
dents who shifted from the regular 
courses offered at Carnegie. For a 
time students were taxing the fa
cilities of the campus. Now with 
the falling off of regular Carnegie 
students, there is ample room for 
the war program courses.
On the campus in another govern
ment program are students in the 
armed service taking training un
der the A. S. T. P. setup. The stu
dents in all these groups are lost 
to Carnegie when considered as 
normal registered students private
ly assuming the obligation of tuition 
and so are not recorded as such.
In the E. S. M. T. program the 
tuition is free and the only cost to 
the student is the purchase of text
books and supplies. However, even 
though the student follows a course 
through, there is not college credit 
given for the work. In the A. S. T. P. 
the soldier gets his pay while at
tending classes under the regula
tions.
When one considers the vastness 
of the movement and the drain on 
the ranks of regular students on the 
campus of Carnegie it can hardly be 
wondered at that the registration
ting the job done without any 
squawking. He delights in teasing 
his friends and has an undying 
sense of humor. To a remarkable 
man with an unusually bright out
look on life, the Plaid tosses its bou
quet of the week.
Engineers Banquet 
Date Set for April 1
The 29th Annual Engineers Stag 
Banquet is to be held in the Gold 
Room, Roosevelt Hotel, Saturday, 
April 1, 1944.
Gentlemenmake a note of this 
date and ask the sweety to excuse 
you for the night. The program 
will include: a full course dinner, 
entertainment and souvenirs. Tick
ets will be on sale next week so be 
sure to get yours early.
Those students wishing to serve 
on the social committee and earn 
points for an Insignia Award can do 
so by contacting Joseph Rymar, 
President of College of Engineering,
C. I. T., Box 353.
You know there is a lot of work 
connected with this affair and the 
only way to make it a success as of 
past years is to come out and help.
Valentine Party 
A Huge Success
Oh for another dance such as the 
one held last Saturday night! You 
can imagine the scramble when the 
Broken Heart dance came up! 
Everyone thought it was a grand 
way to get our evening students ac
quainted with one another. And the 
Ping-Pong tables will probably need 
retreading after the wear they re
ceived on that gala evening of fun. 
I wish you could have seen the play! 
You would have split, Im sure. Did 
you ever see a lamp walking? Well, 
I did! Believe me, Im not kidding. It 
brought forth more laughter than 
you would think possible. But what 
really got me was how everyone 
participated in the community sing
ing. Maybe it was because it brought 
back memories and afforded every
one a feeling of fine relaxation and 
contentment which mingled 
through the crowd. The tag dances 
went over big too! Was it fun 
watching the girls whirl from part
ner to partner! But when it came to 
the girls tag, well, that was really 
IT. Perhaps it was the strange look 
on the faces of the fellas, but what
ever it was, amusement seemed to 
register in everybodys face. And to 
top the evening off, Arlenes and 
Gladys sandwiches were just the 
right senders to please all appetites. 
(My that cake was good!wonder 
if any was left?) These modern Cinderellas! No slippers were left be
hind which indicates that they 
werent in a hurry to leave. But 
then, who wouldnt regret leaving 
after having such a wonderful time?
has fallen so much. The redeeming 
feature is that education has not lost 
ground, rather it is being widened 
and more people are being made ac
quainted with the fact that formal 
learning hardly knows any bounds 
so long as there is a will to learn and 
an effort put forth to carry into 
force this will.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor 
Joseph Rymar 
Photographer
George RifflePage edited by Evening School Students of Car negie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Da? School staff.Staff
Gladys Bayer Elmer Decima Norma L. DeLillo Mary DeMaria Albert C. Flanders John Hundertmark Doris Kenneweg Thelma KitchenFred Vichich
William E. Kuskie Joseph E. Luncher S. W. Marcinizyn E. E. McDenald Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray Caroline Noll Dorothy Papa
Phi Nu Fraternity will hold a 
card party in Margaret Morrison 
Recreational Hall Saturday, Febru
ary 17 at 8:30 P. M.
Hello folks, remember me? Im 
the Eight-Ball column that you 
didnt read last week. I was chuck
ed full of news, all ready to give 
you the latest dirt, but no one 
found me lying there in the drawer. 
I should have rolled right out be
fore the eyes of this Plaid Staff, 
but Im too shy.
I hear tell, for the first time this 
semester, Mr. Lew took a mirror to 
Voice & Speech class last week. That 
relieves this weary mind; I think 
Mrs. Skinner was on the verge of 
becoming quite provoked.
That 8:30 Voice & Speech class 
on Tuesday Evenings is going to 
suffer quite a loss . . . Uncle Sam 
has made George Riffle one of his 
little boys in blue . . . Bon Voy
age to you, George and to Bob 
Aungst, former E. E. student, who 
has just returned to the University 
of Illinois after having enjoyed a 
seven-day furlough.
Why, Caroline Noll! Out of the 
clear sky, Caroline just exclaimed, 
Its cold in Schenley Park, now. 
Meow, meow, how does she know?
The married men on the campus, 
and off, are worse than A1 Flanders 
(just kidding, Al) . . . Joe Rymar 
was seen walking out of the Ad
ministration Building Wednesday 
night about 11 oclock with two fe
males.
Mrs. Rymar:
It was strictly business. (It says 
here).
A/eiu Rep.i&letticUloeJ.
At the last meeting of Evening 
Student Council, held on Sunday, 
February 6, Ruth McGraw and Ar
lene McMurray of the College of 
Fine Arts were elected as represen
tatives to Council. The new repre
sentatives will replace George Rif
fle and Mary Crum. Mr. Riffle has 
resigned as President of the College 
of Fine Arts and Chairman of the 
Social Committee to the fact that he 
has recently enlisted in the Navy 
and is now subject to 24-hour call. 
Ruth Crum is no longer a student 
of Carnegie Techs Evening School. 
Miss Crum suffered an attack of ap
pendicitis at the end of the last se
mester and was unable to register at 
the beginning of the new term