Thursday, Jan. 21. 1971
ine Arts To Be
bo Vandalized 
ttle Off-Campus Thugs
Inspected Monthly
punched, jumped from behind, and beaten to the ground. Rosen, his glasses knocked off, groped blindly, found them, and he and Roger got out into the street. From there they ran to Morewood Gardens for aid. Both were sent to Shadyside Hospital for X-ravs and released.
At the same time, Mark Squires, of SAE, was crossing Morewood Avenue from his fraternity, heading for E-tower. He noticed a disturbance at the corner, and when he reached the other side of Morewood Avenue, he was set upon by four strangers.
LOAN
Lets ask this guy, he heard one of them say. They asked Squires if he had any money. Squires said, No, and then was hit in the face and knocked to the ground. Squires saw that he was about to be kicked as well, and managed to roll away and get to his feet.
His face bleeding, Squires dashed back across Morewood Ave., into ATO where he found two brothers, Tom Zinn and Paul Comoromy. Both immediately ran outside to find out what was happening, and were set upon in front of PKA by club-bearing assaultants. Zinn received two puncture wounds in his hand from nails in one of the clubs and Comoromy was slammed over the head with the blunt side of another.
PHI ALPHA!
Squires meantime went over to his own fraternity and cried out the fraternal danger call, Phi Alpha!. Five SAEs immediately ran from the living room out onto the street, expect
ing as normal, to find that someone had been painting the houses decorative white lions.
(Continued on Page 2)Campus Reacts o Incident
by DOUG CAMPBELL
Sunday evening, after the early morning incidents on Morewood Avenue, Dean Williams met with members of several fraternities in the dining room of SAE.
Dean Williams pointed out that the incident had not been a black-white confrontation, but rather yet another problem with high school kids. He pointed that the same things had happened, to a lesser degree, after last semesters Livingston Taylor concert.
The fraternity people agreed.
Dean Williams then pointed out that rather than reacting so violently and personally, the fraternities should have allowed campus security to deal with the problem. The Deans comment was followed by passionate disagrement from the fraternity members.
Security never notified us of their plans or of the potential danger, they said. What were we supposed to do, let everyone on Morewood Avenue get beat up?
Dean Williams pointed out that many more people were
(Continued on Page 2)
Following an inspection tour of the Fine Arts building by insurance and city fire inspectors just before Christmas vacation, a wave of rumors swept the campus to the effect that the building would have to close. This obviously has not taken place, but the Physical Plant Department, along with the city fire inspector and a representative from the company insuring the building plan on making monthly inspections of the building. In addition, the university will shortly let contracts for install
ing a fire alarm and sprinklersystems.
It is hoped that the inspections will have a generally educational effect in terms of fire prevention. The building requires special attention because of its intensive use and because large quantities of paper, paints, turpentine, canvas, and lumber are used there. There is additional danger because the building is used by about three times as many people as it was designed for.
Peaceniks Seek Support 
Present Viet Treaty
The 1970 CARNEGIE MEL
ON* will go on sale 
Monday at the Skibo In
formation Desk.
* Note: The Carnegie Melon 
is the 1970 Yearbook
by ROSELLE MANN
Two delegates from the National Student Association spoke to a group of student senators Monday afternoon in the Wherett Room, concerning a peopleto-people peace treaty that has just been formulated, involving the American and Vietnamese people. Davul Ishkin, president of the NSA, and Doug Holstetter, briefly explained the idea of student groups all over the world, and then proceeded to discuss the basic concept of the peace treaty. Nearly every country has a national union of students, funded by government money. This network of students operates as part of the International Youth Movement, which they described as an existing reality. Five hundred college campuses belong to the NSA, Americas union of students. Carnegie-Mellon is not part of this, and the two men came to ask for our support.
The NSA sent delegates to Vietnam for the purpose of formulating a peace treaty with Vietnamese student groups, the South Vietnamese Student Union and NLF students. Dave served as head of the southern delegation, had difficulty along with the others in obtaining visas from the South Vietnamese government, and went on to North Vietnam. Doug spent three years in a small South Vietnamese village, involved in community development there. He speaks the language fluently, and has a genuine understanding of the Vietnamese people. Doug has witnessed the growth of antiwar protest groups in Saigon, and the rest of South Vietnam. He said that the people realize the Thieu-Ky regime does not represent them, and they know that if peace is to come about, Americans must first undergo total withdrawal, and cease their destruction of the land and its people.
Dave and Doug stressed many times that the treaty is not mere
ly a petition. It is a pledge, a committment on the part of every 
individual to establish and preserve peace between the people of two nations. The underlying concept behind the creation of this treaty is that the people of Vietnam and of America are not enemies, nor at war with one another, but that our governments are the ones at war. Thus, since our governments are having trouble making peace, we are taking matters into our own hands.
This treaty requires each individual to examine herself or himself as a person. It entails discovering the ways in which one contributes to the war - either by carrying a draft card, or paying taxes which will be allocated to the military, or belonging to an institution which subsidizes war productionand then ceasing to perform these actions. The two delegates urged 
that a majority of people sign the treaty, first students, and then hopefully, administrators; all must then observe it conscientiously. Both feel that the American people have more power than they are aware of, and can be useful if they unite in effective action such as economic boycotting of corporations supporting the war, or mass resistance to the draft.
JOINT TREATY OF PEACE BETWEEN THE PEOPLEOF THE UNITED STATES AND THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM AND NORTH VIETNAM
Be it known that the American and Vietnamese people are not enemies. The war is carried out in the names of the people of the United States and South Vietnam but without our consent. It destroys the land and people of Vietnam. It drains America of its resources, its youth and its honor.
(Continued on Page 4)
by DOUG CAMPBELL
Street fighting broke out between off-campus elements and members of two campus fraternities early last Sunday morning after three C-MU students had been assaulted.
The outsiders, mostly high | school students, had been attract% ed on campus by a dance in the Skibo ballroom sponsored by SPIRIT. About 450 people, many more than had been expected, attended the dance which was to be open to SPIRIT members and their guests only.
Many of those present, however, were uninvited, and they were not to be denied entrance, the Ballrooms door, off its hinges, swarmed inside. A Ballroom door opening onto the Skibo patio pulled so hard that its metal 
frame bent, causing its glass bend, snap, and shatter onto ground.
OPEN HOUSE
Dance authorities then decided it best to allow the intruders to attend, trying to make the best of a bad situation.
Inside the dance a fight broke out between two off-campus people over an undelivered $7.00 sale of marijuana. Both were taken to the campus security office.
Meanwhile, a cash box containing $17.00 of change was stolen from the Tartan Grill, and an attempt was made to steel an electric typewriter from the TARTAN office. Total damage to Skibo was estimated at $250.00.
Anticipating trouble when the dance let out, Security Head Ron Taylor called in the midnight shift of the Campus Security Patrol early, and at 11:20 asked for stand-by assistance from the Pittsburgh Police. Four to six squad cars and a Tactical Police Force Van were present during the next hour, cruising the Fifth and Forbes Avenue areas near Morewood Avenue.
PARTY OVER
At midnight, the dance ended, and the crowds left the Skibo area without incident. At 12:15, however, two C-MU students, Vic Roger and Dan Rosen, returning to Morewood Gardens from the Dorm Movie, were assaulted at the traffic light on f orbes near the foot of the cut.
A crowd of people, none of them familiar to either victim, were standing at the light. Someone asked the students where they could find a restaurant. As 
Roger and Rosen pointed toward Oakland, they were both sucker---------------------------------------------------

Street Fight
(.' /- !%:< 1 '
Instead, they found Squires bleeding and dashed off with Zinn and Comoromy towards Fifth Avenue to find the attackers. At the corner of Fifth and Morewood. they came upon about fifty people. Some were waiting for a bus; others were waiting for the people from the fraternities. By this time Security Head Taylor and Dean Williams were present and they attempted to keep the two groups apart.They had some success.
A small scuffle broke out between eight to ten people, but it ended quickly. Rumor has it that at least one off-campus student produced a knife; that report cannot be confirmed. No one was seriously injured.
ROUND TWO
In the meantime, three more SAEs followed by several ATOs came running toward Fifth Avenue. This group, however, was cut off by about 25 off-campus people coming off the hill in front of Sigma Nu, some of them brandishing three foot two-bytwos, highlighted by several four-inch nails.
The two groups faced off in the center of Morewood Avenue, halting traffic, screaming and brawling while curious girls in nightgowns hung out of their Morewood Gardens windows.
Page 2THE TARTANThursday, January 21, 1971
SAEs Mark Hart and Jim McCurley were both clubbed. Hart uas hit on the head with the corner of a two-by-two and required twenty stitches at Shadyside Hospital. McCurleys wrist was punctured by two nails wielded by someone described as wild-eyed and screaming mother-fucker! McCurley was sent to Shadyside Hospital for emergency treatment and then released.
WANDERERS
Two disinterested pedestrians were also injured during the fighting. Both were warned not to go down Morewood Avenue by director of Student Activities Bob McCurdy. But they insisted on going over to Fifth Avenue in spite of the trouble. Both were taken to Shadyside Hospital for facial injuries and then released.
One other innocent non-student pedestrian was jumped and beaten by the wandering crowds on Forbes Avenue, near the Morewood Gardens Parking lot as he returned from Gino and Petes pizza shop.
A total of six people were hospitalized. The entire incident came to a close with the arrival of several police cars, a Tactical Police Force Van, and a PAT bus. Most of the off-campus people crammed onto the bus and went home. Those left behind, ran over the hill behind Mudge. No arrests were made.
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items 
3711 FORBES AVENUE Phone: 683-2181
Campus Reacts
Continued from Page 1 )
Student Senate Meets
Numerous reports were presented as the first Student Senate meeting of the new year became reality. Of note, Grace DAlo complained that the Publicity Committee was $15 in the red due to unauthorized spending. John Gross presented a rather complete account of current investigations into the feasibility of student-owned and operated housing. He noted the recent establishment of a 12-unit course to study the possibilities and cited the successful experience at Portland State University, the only American school at which student owned housing has been realized to date. (The Portland student housing project was the beneficiary of a $3 million federal loan.) Patrick Cavangah interjected the concern that the housing must be planned with the interests of the community in mind as well as those of the students.
Senator Mike Spring expressed his concern and disapproval of the present practice of selling only certain newspapers in the Tartan Grill, and suggested that students should individually inform Mr. Prillaman that there would indeed be a market for more than the Pittsburgh Press in the Grill. Following which Clay Prestia presented an analysis of recent U.S. Policy in Southeast Asia and suggested that the C-MU student senate consider support for a peoples peace treaty endorsed by the National Students Association. The peace treaty is a document to be signed by citizens of Vietnam and the United States expressing their mutual dissatisfaction with the policy of war as conducted by their respective governments. The Senate voted to establish a commit
tee to study the treaty.
The announcement portion of the meeting culminated in President Cavanaghs report of the recent trustees meeting. At this meeting the trustees voted to accept the Statement of Goals, Rights and Responsibilities. Two measures designed to alleviate C-MUs financial straits were outlined: (1) The maintenance staff is to be reduced by 40 per cent, and (2) Numerous properties originally bought for $1.25 million with an eye to future expansion are to be sold for $1 million.
The first order of old business saw several amendments to the Senate Constitution passed. The amendments are designed to clarify certain ambiguous instances of senator status. After this the Senate came to grips with the issue of incorporation and discussion ensued concerning implications of such a move. The question was finally called, and the Student Senate voted 31-4-7 to appropriate $100 to cover legal fees of incorporation.
An item was introduced by Mike Spring who noted with impassioned indignation that Mr. Greuber, the man who handles the C-MU health insurance program was utilizing school stationary in solicitations to sell insurance to graduating seniors. Spring moved that the Senate send a letter to the administration censuring the action of Mr. Greuber.
hurt than would have been as the result of the fraternities rushing out to do battle in thestreets.
The feeling among the involved fraternities is that the campus security force at present is incapable of dealing with troublesome large crowds which they feel are becoming more and more frequent.
What they want now is an assurance that incidents such as Sunday mornings will not occur again.
In a letter to the campus community, Dean Swank announced that Dean Williams, Mr. McCurdy, and Security Director Taylor will be undertaking a series of meetings to review the campus response to the problems encountered on Saturday night and Sunday morning.
Among matters to be considered, he wrote, will be a review of the pattern of Security staffing to be undertaken by Mr. Taylor, and a study of methods of scheduling and controlling functions at Skibo to which offcampus personnel are invited, to be undertaken by Dean Williams and Mr. McCurdy.
Urgent: ROOMMATE(s) Want
ed. Four Bedroom House  
5506 Wilkins Ave., 5 min./ 
C-MU. $75 month or less + 
util. Oesparate! Call Jim or 
John, 422-7470.
FILMMuseum Of Art 
THE INTERNATIONAL 
TOURNEE OF ANIMATION
Friday, January 29, 8 and 10 in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tickets $1.50, 
Students $1.00. Information 621-7300 
Ext. 360.
MESSIANIC JEWS 
Offer free Bible Literature 
concerning their precepts 
and beliefs.W^rite:SCRIPTURES Dept. C-888 151 Prospect Drive Stratford, Conn. 06497
HAYRIDE
dial 835-9687 
thru beautiful South Park 
Valleybrook Stable 
Fairgrounds
EXPERT 
VW REPAIR 
687-5173
CABART OBOE
Excellent Condition 
CALL 366-1941
BABY SITTING IN MY HOME 
18 Hours Weekly 
beginning late January
521-9150
FREE INFORMATION
Low Cost, Safe, Legal
ABORTION
in New York
Scheduled Immediately 
212 TR-7-8562
MRS. SAUL CERTIFIED ABORTION REFERRALAll Inquiries Confidential
The Features Editors want CONCERNED ART STUDENTS to 
cover art exhibits on the campus (Student Art Gallery and 
Hewlett Gallery) and special student-interest exhibits in the 
city. (PLEASE! We need serious reporters!) Anyone interested 
should call the TARTAN office and leave his or her name and 
phone number.
ATTENTION LONG HAIR!
Fashion of today. Do you have a hair problem, taking care of your long hair? 
Do you want to be a new you? Visit ENR|CO, he's a genius in that field, 
because it requires Ability and Tfecbnique as a Talented Artist like ENRICO; 
Haircutting isn't just a matter of snipping! This famous hairstylist actually 
shapes each section of your hair, to suit your own facial contours. And to 
give you that casual look of 'ROMEO," the "CAESAR," the "SHAG," the 
"WIND BLOWN" cut of today fashion. Every man should know about Thin
ning Hair ... is your Hair weak or flimsy? Do you suffer from dandruff, 
itchey scalp? Why worry? ENRICO, he's a genius. He can advise you to 
condition your hair and scalp. Also Customized in the new Julius Caesar 
hairpiece's. 5.
The New Enrico Salon
207 Oakland Ave. below Forbes by Appointment 682-3738
Moihe/ii
The Pinnacle of Pizza Parlors
Superiority in cleanliness, lower prices 8c taste & quality 
(dough for pie shells made daily on the premises plus finest 
8t freshest ingredients), now announces superiority in service:DELIVERY
Sun.-Thurjs.: To Morewood Gardens 10:15 P.M.  
Fraternities 10:25,  Donner Hall 10:45. 254 
CHARGE FIRST ITEM, no additional charge for 
extra items. Call well in advance.
Other days, times 8t places, inquire. 254 charge for 
orders over $5.00.
CENTRE (at Craig) 621-6755
2 SHOWS NIGHTLY - 8  lO NO RESERVED SEATS^ TICKETS*2 50 without. ON SALE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK. BUY EM EARLY

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, January 21, 1971THE TARTANPage 3
SAC To Question 
Academic Affairs
WHY GREEK?
(Co should you, as a fresh
man at C-MU join a fraternity? 
What does the Greek system on 
nCt C-MU campus have to 
offer you?
It is virtually a unanimous 
concensus that the foremost 
objective of a college fraternity 
is twofold: first, to further the 
individuals academic effort and 
to aid him in his search for 
knowledge; and second, to in
still within every member the 
essence of true brotherhood, the 
will and ability to live success
fully and in harmony with his 
fellowman. To quote Elvis J. 
Stahr, President of Indiana Uni
versity:
"Speaking both as an educa
tor and as a fraternity man, I 
feel that the fraternity system 
of today and tomorrow should 
increasingly focus its energies 
upon the twin ideals of brother
hood and scholarship.
The college fraternity should 
promote scholarship. That's one 
of the basic reasons it exists. 
Most of our fraternity chapters 
at Indiana are laying heavier 
and heavier stress on these ob
jectives.
I would suggest also that in 
a land and a world where auto
mation and pressures for confor
mity make it increasingly diffi
cult for the individual human 
being to sort himself out from 
the mass, to achieve a genuine, 
inward feeling of personal dig
nity and worth, a fraternity can
not only give him that feeling 
of 'belonging' which is a basic 
human need, but can teach him 
in a small group of his fellowmen the kinds of attitudes he 
should have toward all fellow 
men. In other words, we hope 
that in all fraternities one not 
only finds friendship but also 
the meaning and worth of friend
ship, that one not only is accept
ed as a brother but is taught 
how to be brotherly throughout 
his life to all who will or might 
accept him as a brother. The 
friendship we find around the 
chapter hearth should help us 
understand that friendship is a 
human urge, not just a Greekletter urge, and that it is en
riched, not lessened when we 
share it.
As we have ventured and as Mr. Stahr has confirmed, academics and brotherhood must and do go hand-in-hand in any fraternity system.
Perhaps the next most pressing question that confronts a freshman is, What does fraternity life offer mewhat makes it outstanding? One of the most obvious benefits of fraternity living is the social
aspect. Every house has at least three or four major parties or dances during the school year as well as frequent live band dances and fraternity-sorority exchanges. As a fraternity man you will enjoy participating in other campus-wide social events; for example Homecoming,Spring Carnival, and Sweepstakes.
In addition to the social aspect of fraternity life, the Greek system offers opportunities to participate in a large and fiercely competitive intramural program encompassing almost every conceivable form of athletics from football and track to water polo and ping-pong. Also you .will have a voice in your own governing body, the Council of Fraternity Presidents. Although certain aspects of social life, student government, and intramurals may be found outside the Greek system, one all all-important factor is lackingbrotherhood.
So why whould you go Greek? Because it offers you the opportunity to enjoy yourself socially, while maturing into a leader and at the same time realizing your academic aspirations and forming a lasting bond of understanding and friendship with your fellow man.
Carnegie-Mellon University has announced the appointment of S. William Gouse, Jr., as associate dean of Carnegie Institute of Technology and of the School of Urban and Public Affairs. The appointment was effective January 1.
Dr. Gouse joined CarnegieMellon in 1967 as professor of mechanical engineering and principal research engineer for the Universitys Transporta---* ------
by TERRI ZALUSKA
At the last meeting of the Academic Affairs Board, the members present decided that the prime function of the AAB this semester would be information gathering. A questionnaire has been prepared and distributed to all Student Advisory Committees. SAC groups will then meet with department heads to discuss departmental policies regarding grading student input into curriculum, and innovative courses. (Special thanks to Jim Matey and Vince Misitano.) -
The position of Director of Academic Affairs now has direct input to Faculty Senate (parallel to Faculty Senate rep to Student Senate). Let me quote a letter I receibed from Dr. Akram Midani (Chairman of the Faculty) dated January 12: The results of the Faculty referendum are complete, readmitting the Director of the Academic Affairs Board of the Student Government to sit as an ex officio member of Faculty Senate. The
tion Research Institute. For the past year he has been on leave of absence as technical assistant to Dr. Lee Dubridge and Dr. Edward David in the Office of Science and Technology, Washington, D.C.
Gouse is a specialist in energy conversion, ground transportation, mobile source air pollution, and urban systems. He has received national attention
, . . -xx..:xx xcz
vote was a resounding 155 for to 42 against. Prof. Midani has explained that the office is an elected position of the Student Government and therefore it would be understood by the students that their representative in the Faculty Senate is directly accountable to them. (taken from Faculty Senate minutes of Dec. 8). This input and vote have no meaning unless used constructively, and naturally demands a tremendous amount of student feedback. I will make myself available to any student or faculty member wishing to discuss this or any other academic concern. I can be reached by mail (Box 2-c-10 Morewood Gardens) or by phone (687 7687).
Any student serving the university in an advisory capacity (such as sitting on a faculty senate committee, etc) and wishing to receive credit for it, may do so as a humanities elective. Please contact Rick Stafford first.
Also, any student interested in working on either the Research policy or Planning Councils please let me know. In addition, Educational Policy Council needs one Fine Arts rep and one AWS rep. If interested please contact me at the above address.
through his support of alternatives to the internal combustion engine and has been a consultant to a number of major corporations.
Associate Dean Named

---------------------------------------------------

If you are, you're the one we have In 
mind. The Pennsylvania Department of 
Transportation wants Civil Engineers who 
will work for a future for themselves and 
their country. The challenge for a safer 
and faster transportation system is some
thing we would like to see you handle.
The Civil Engineering requirements of 
the Pennsylvania Department of Trans
portation are rapidly expanding. This 
means that personnel demands for higher 
posts are constantly being created. So, If 
you have the drive, intellectual motivation 
and imagination of a forward looking Civil 
Engineer, come see us at the Pennsylvania 
Department of Transportation. We have 
the challenges to keep you stimulated and 
the incentives to keep you with us. Look 
for us on your campus.
Interview Date: 
JANUARY 29,1971
ituuet duP agoPt
PLACE-PH 100
TIME-Jan. 22-6, 8, 10 pm
ADMISSION850
100 Discount Card 
available FREE at Skibo 
Information Desk.
NEXT WEEK:
THE STORY OF WILL ROGERS
Jan. 29 - 7, 9:30 - PH 100
L
Clyde was the leader. Bonnie wrote poetry. C. W. was a Myrna Loy 
fan who had a bluebird tattooed on his chest. Buck told corny jokes 
and carried a Kodak. Blanche was a preachers daughter who kept 
\her fingers in her ears during the gunfights. They played checkers 
and photographed each other incessantly. On Sunday nights 
w they listened to Eddie Cantor on the radio. All-in-all, they killed a 
18 people. They were the strangest damn gang you ever heard of. 
a a ? ? ? ? S3 ? ? ? ? a ? a a ? ? ?
'fBonnie and Clyde "
2nBQBnnonnnEBQaQBnnnnBEQnnBQnQnnnnEnBnBBBaQBQEiEDnnnnQDnnnnEnonnnnneQ
the U.S.-supported regime.
8. The Americans and Vietnamese agree to respect the independence, peace and neutrality of Laos and Cambodia in accord with the 1954 and 1962 
Geneva conventions and not to interfere in the internal affairs of these two countries.
9. Upon these points of agreement, we pledge to end the war and resolve all other questions
in the spirit of self-determination and mutual respect for the independence and political free, dom of the people of Vietnam and the United States.
By ratifying the agreement, we pledge to take whatever actions are appropriate to implement the terms of this joint Treaty and to insure its acceptance by the government of the United States.
Poge 4THE TARTANThursday, January 21, 1971
Treatyfrom page 1
We hereby agree to end the war on the following terms, so that both peoples can live under the joy of independence and can devote themselves to building a society based on human equality and respect for the earth.
1. The Americans agree to immediate and total withdrawal from Vietnam and publicly to set the date by which all American forces will be removed.
The Vietnamese pledge that as soon as the U.S. Government publicly sets a date for total withdrawal:
2. They will enter discussions to secure the release of all American prisoners, including pilots captured while bombing North Vietnam.
3. There will be an immediate cease-fire between U.S. forces and those led by the Provisional Revolutionarv Government of
South Vietnam.
4. They will enter discussions of the procedures to guarantee the safety of all withdrawing 
troops.
5. The Americans pledge to end the imposition of Thieu-KyKhiem on the people of South
Vietnam in order to insure their right to self-determination and so that all political prisoners can be released.
6. The Vietnamese pledge to form a provisional coalition government to organize democratic elections. All parties agree to respect the results of elections in which all South Vietnamese can participate freely without the presence of any foreign 
troops.
7. The South Vietnamese pledge to enter discussion of procedures to guarantee the safety and political freedom of those South Vietnamese who have collaborated with the U.S. or with
MANAGEMENT JOBS
FOR ENGINEERS
J etion 
Sale
UF  68% OFF
ENTIRE STOCK GOES ON SALE 
STARTING THURSDAY, JAN. 21 
FASHION CLOTHES FOR THE YOUNG
Zke Different Drummer
WALNUT STREET AT COPELAND 
Open Daily 10 to 5:30
Penslvana
Dept-otTransportatioH
Bureau of Personnel/Harrisburg, Pa. 17120
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
2) 4fr (2mm i6 1t0teeus d Wd0Ctgk1AE Pts1tt eu qt0Cdue0dg k1 aeeg 6useutt1eus 
nCeE lOutp Ct1t eE du kyyk1nOueno 8k1 d y1ks1dm gtdPeus nk utd1-8OnO1t mdudst1edg 
1tEykuEeWegenetE eu du tuseutt1eus tue1kumtun.
m2qiAaK afqPAN4p wenC 8et ygdunE duP 0kuEn1O0neku d0neenetE Ey1tdP W1kdPgo 
kt1 nCt ruentP SndntEp eE kut k8 nCt wk1gPAE gd1stEn mt0Cdue0dg 0kun1d0nk1E eu nCt 
0kuEn1O0neku 8etgP duP eE Etd10Ceus 8k1 d 8tw lOut s1dPE nk tunt1 enE P1kjt0n APmeu
eEn1dneku T1deueus P1ks1dm. TCt y1ks1dm eE CesCgo d1etP duP eu0gOPtE n1deueus WknC 
ku nCt jkW duP Wo s1kOy Etmeud1E nk k1etun nCt okOus tuseutt1 nk nCeE Poudme0 duP 
CesC ydoeus euPOEn1o (uk gkusp ntPekOE CkO1E ku P1d8neus Wkd1PE eukgtP). TCeE k1
sduezdneku wenC $60 meggeku yt1 duuOm EdgtE eE EkgePgo 8kOuPtP duP eE Emdgg tukOsC Ek 
nCdn td0C tuseutt1AE dWegenetE d1t tdEego 1t0ksueztP duP 1twd1PtP.
A R6PR6S6NTAT2V6 k8 m2qiAaH afqPAN4 wegg Wt 0kuPO0neus 0dmyOE eunt1
etwE ku lduOd1o 25p 1971. akuEOgn nCt Pgd0tmtun f88e0t nk d11dust 8k1 okO1 yt1
Ekudg eunt1etw.
(frmDNAT 4frR 8OnO1t gkkk Wtnnt1 wenC m2qiAaH afqPAN4! !

---------------------------------------------------

FORTY
FREE 
ALBUMS
Of 
CAPTAIN BEEFHEART 
And 
RY COODER
(Who will be appearing at Skibo,
January 29th, 8 and 10 pm)
ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
THROUGH THE FOLLOWING
-Once In A Lifetime-Exciting-Sensual-Arousing-Stimulating-Legitimate 
(honest to goodness)- 
CONTEST DRAWING
I Complete the following and turn in at the Skibo InforI motion Desk, or send via Campus Mail to: ACTIVITIES 
I BOARD, SKIBO 103 no later than midnight, Tuesday, 
January 26, 1971.
QUESTION 
"In what building is the SKIBO Ballroom located?" 
YOUR ANSWER:
YOUR NAME..... 
and ADDRESS... 
PHONE (if any).
Thursday, January 21, 1971THE TARTANPage 5
THE DRAWING will be held at 12:30, Wednesday, January 
27th. The first 40 entries randomly drawn with correct 
answers will receive Record Albums. Employees of Warner 
Bros. Records, their affiliates, and members of the C-MU 
Activities Board are not eligible. Names of winners will be 
posted at the Information Desk upon presentation of their
I.D. Card, Winners can pick up their FREE ALBUM.
 LICK A DECAL 
HEADREST
by RICHARD BRAVERMAN
Captain Beefheart and the Magic Band are going to be performing in concert on Friday, January 29, at CMU. It should be an interesting concert, to say the least. Assuming that it would be ridiculous for me to attempt to describe Beefhearts music with a few adjectives, I wont. I suppose the fact that Beefhearts albums are produced by Frank Zappa might tell you more, but thats only an afternoon thought of mine. Anyway,
Im getting hungry. Captain Beefheart himself would tell you that There are only forty people in the world and five of them are hamburgers. Everybodys colored or else you wouldnt be able to see them. Do you know what I mean?
He still takes another heaving breath and says, Nobody digs the blues anymore.
Beefheart was listening to the blues in the middle 1950s as a teenager in Lancaster, CaliforCAPTAIN BEEFHEART...a
nia. According to his friend Frank Zappa, theyd steal leftover pineapple tarts from Beefhearts fathers pastry truck and listen to records all night, ditching school the next day to sleep. Later Beefheart and Zappa wrote a movie script. Captain Beefheart Meets the Grunt People, which Zappa says he will produce someday.
On the Vietnam War: Its getting pretty desperate when you have to shoot somebody with a bullet just to say hello.
Everyone drinks from the same pond. . . .another piece from a collection of Beefheartian wisdom.
Along the way, when recording his brilliant first album, Beefheart met Ry Cooder, a guitarist. Both were into the blues. Ive known Ry a long time, Beefheart says. Hes an only child, too. Which is why we like the blues. Were a minority group. Cooder played on that first album. Since that time, Ry Cooder has established himself as one of the best of the studio players  one of the anonymous but highly regarded musicians known only to other musicians. He has added his guitar and mandolin playing to the albums of many familiar artists: NeilYoung, Arlo Guthrie, Taj Mahal, Gordon Lightfoot, and the Rolling Stones included. Listen again to Love in Vain. on the Let It Bleed album. Cooder now has a new album of his own out on the record racks under the Warner Bros.Reprise label. He and Beefheart are currently making a national tour which stops for two shows in Skibos notorious ballroom ... 8 and 10 p.m. ... a rather unique evening? If Dave Ploeser were here, hed probably enjoy it. Or, as Captain Beefheart would say: Im not really here, I just stick around for my friends. Dont kid yourself. You just stick around for your friends too.
Nkw okOA1t ku okO1 wdo Oy.
Some people think getting to the 
top means scaling skyscrapers.
At Hoover, the top is on the 
fourth floor. Of a neat brick build
ing. On tree-lined streets. In a 
quiet town. Where the air is fresh. 
And the horizon is sky.
That's where youd start.
E3ut not necessarily where 
you'd stay.
Hoover has 14 plants in 9 coun
tries on 5 continents.
Two-thirds of the
university.
Or you might go to one of 
Hoovers 155 District Offices. And 
learn how we move over 80 differ
ent home products.
Whatever you do, you'll grow 
fast. Youll have to. Just to keep 
up. Hoover's a fast growing com
pany.
First half sales in 70 were 
up 13%.
The year before 
, , ^ wasnt a bad year, either. 
J C.l-. iQhQ Hoover s total21,000 Hoover people̫>^*!^,^^J,a>In 1969, 
work nufsidp I ) S A > y v s^net sales were over $309
f" R V ~ "^-million.
work outside U.S.A.
You dont have to go.
You might stay at 
Hoover s home office. Go 
into marketing, finance, 
manufacturing, engineer
ing.Take graduate courses 
at the local colleges and
V;
So, if you want to go 
' up, go down to your placeiment office.
! Sign up for an inter11 '  I view. Well be on campus 
(ConCti uedPa
(To about the 68th Hoof.)

---------------------------------------------------

Pag THE TARTANThursday Jonuory 21 1971
Editorial
(tggp Cdyyo utw otd1 81etuPE. Ht1t eE okO1 8e1En 0Ctt1op 
OyWtdn TARTAN tPenk1edg k8 nCt otd1p 0C1kuk0geus nCt 1eEt 
duP 8deg k8 nCt G1tdn 2PtdE k8 (tEnt1u qdu. fO1 8e1En G.2. k8
(.q. nk EO88t1 PtukOtmtun nCeE otd1 eE nCt )kkP )k1 Ptd0t SufTn f0 Sw06n
y1ks1dm. 2n nO1uE kOn nCdn OuPt1 nCeE genngt tOyCtmeEm kO1 
skt1umtun CdE ukn kugo setu dwdo 8kkP 8k1 ytd0tp WOn d1mE 
8k1 wd1p Ek mduo d1mE nCdn nCt Ptundsku CdE gkEn n1d0k. Ay
yd1tungo nCt jkW k8 kttyeus n1d0k k8 wCt1t duP 8k1 wCkm wt 
y1kmknt ytd0t Wo seeus dwdo sOuEp d jkW wCe0C wt d1t nkgP 
eE ukut k8 nCt Amt1e0du POWge0AE WOEeutEEp eE nkk 0kmygtx 8k1 
ttu nCt Sndnt duP Dt8tuEt Dtyd1nmtunE. SkmtCkwp nCt wCkgt 
EenOdneku wkOgP ukn Wt Ek Pty1tEEeus e8 wt CdP gkEn n1d0k k8 
Ckw mduo CkOEtEp k1 n1d0nk1Ep k1 mtPe0dg 0geue0E wt CdP 
setu dwdo. iOn eE EttmE nCdn wenC kO1 y1tEtun 8k1tesu ykge0o 
en eE tdEet1 nk set dwdo ndukE nCdu 8kkP k1 ECtgnt1.
LETTERS T<B
To the editor:
Its so nice to read an article in the TARTAN thats interesting and even educational and/or meaningful. Thank you, Herb Simon!
Amy Lippman Graphic Design 72
fO1 Et0kuP G.2. k8 (.q. nk ndkt d Wtdneus nCeE otd1 eE 
nCt yt10tyneku nCdn nCeE euEnenOneku eE PtkntP nk CesCt1 tPO0d
neku 8k1 enE EnOPtunE. TCt mkEn 0kmmku PeE0OEEeku 2 Cdt 
Ctd1P nCeE ydEn wttk wtun EkmtnCeus gekt nCeE.
2 Cdt nk sk duP stn mo dPP duP P1ky 0d1PE EesutP.
(Cdn d1t okO ndkeus?
(tggp 2 n1etP nk ndkt nCt Etmeud1 eu SkmtnCeu-k1-knCt1p 
WOn en CdE 8kO1no ytkygt eu en. TCtu 2 n1etP 8k1 RtdPeusE eu 
(Cdn-0Cd-md-0dggenp WOn nCt y1k8 EdeP nCt1t wt1tuAn tukOsC 
WkkkE 8k1 nCt ytkygt dg1tdPo eu en. Sk nCtu 2 n1etP nk stn eunk 
qduOdg TCt1dyo 22-Ap WOn nCto d1t kugo gtnneus Eex EnOPtunE 
duP 8et 81etuPE k8 nCt y1k8tEEk1 ndkt nCdn. TCtu nCt mttn
eus nemtE k8 mo nwk 1tqOe1tP 0kO1EtE wt1t 0CdustPp Ek ukw 
nCto 0ku8ge0n.
Sk wCdn d1t okO ndkeus?
2 0kOgPuAn stn duonCeus 2 wduntPp Ek 2Am ndkeus ik1eus 
T1eed 2V-i duP )k10t )ttPeus 222 St0. Q. AuP d8nt1 2 W1kkt 
Pkwu duP 01etP nCt y1k8tEEk1 gtn mt eunk APdu0tP aOn duP 
PdEnt ku d y1kWdnekud1o WdEeE. (Cdn d1t okO ndkeus?
fC wt PkuAn Cdt mduo tgt0netE. 2Am' ndkeus nCt 8kO1 
1tqOe1tP 0kO1EtE. 2Am eu Et0nekuE lp qp a duP R. 2 0duAn 1t
mtmWt1 nCt y1k8tEEk1EA udmtE. 2nAE nkOsCp okO Cdt nk stn nk 
nCt Etmeud1E td1go nk stn d Etdn eu nCt dOPenk1eOm.
aCdu0t f8 A me8tnemt
TCt TARTAN eE CkgPeus enE 8e1En duuOdg meP-otd1 
1t01Oenmtun P1et. (t tEyt0edggo uttP d NdnAg dPt1neEeus 
mdudst1p d 0e10Ogdneku mdudst1p RtEtd10Ct1Ep 0kyo duP 
gdokOn End88p duP N6(S End88. 28 okO1 eunt1tEntPp Ett OEp 
0dgg OEp k1 gtdt d uknt.
J'accuse
On Saturday January 16, McCurdys Marauders once again struck Skibo. Who are the Marauders? What are they? Well, McCurdys Marauders are these so-called human masses of heifers who come to Skibo to damage property, and threaten employees and students, after their war dance. For about $250.-00 to rent the ballroom, the University must pay out anywhere from $1,400.00 to $4,000.00 for damages that have been caused. Well, on the 16th of Jan., McCurdys Marauders really did their thing. Smashing the windows out completely in one of the ballroom doors, damaging the wooden doors leading into the ballroom. From there the heifers rambled into the Tartan Grill, stole an undetermined
amount of cash, taking over the Tartan Grill, shaking up Bridget Clayton, Barbara Mearns, and another student helper who is not known by name. Result: the students who should have access to Skibo and the Tartan Grill were shut out completely. They, the students, who pay for the privelege of using this building for studies and recreation, and relaxation, were stopped cold from using their building by outsiders, some of whom were not old enough to be in high school, let alone old enough to wipe their asses.
There was pot smoking, wine, whiskey, vodka bottles, puke, shit, and water one to three inches deep in the bathrooms. You name it, it was there. Mr. McCurdy, who is supposed to be an intelligent adult, just walked in as if nothing was going on. Where was Security? Standing around doing nothing (it is not Securitys fault, just like the Pittsburgh Police, they have orders - investigate but do not touch.) Where were the Information Desk Employees? One was hiding in the office, then running all over the place like an idiot; the other watchdog was -sitting in the lobby on a couch with his arm around some dame, too engrossed in his little foray for the night. When every
thing was over, McCurdy and the other watchdogs were slowly slinking their way down the backstairs leading from the lobby to the basement.
When one of the Security Sargeants was asked by one of the custodians, why didnt McCurdy screen these animals?, the Sargeants only answer was No comment. Then he mumbled, McCurdy has a wife and family. The custodians answer was, so do we. If Bob McCurdy is such a trustworthy soul and a good Joe that these clowns do not have to be screened, then who is responsible? The students as well as the custodians demand an answer, and deserve an answer and some form of respect. There are four alternatives to take if these dances continue:
1. Screen thoroughly every outside group who wants to hold any dance in Skibo.
2. At the first sign of trouble, call the dance off, and ask them to leave (no refund of money.)
3. Have these groups chaperoned by experienced and responsible persons.
4. Hire professional bouncers.
As for the custodians, they are not, and will not be wet-backs who are to be forced to work under these conditions. The
(Continued on Page 7j
V
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Published Every Thursday 
Editorial and Business Offices  Skibo 50 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone: 682-4557
DAVE CANEY, Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager...............................................................................Beverly Noretsky
News Editors.....................................................Doug Campbell/Debbie Holdstein
Features Editors..............................................................Sam McCool/Sherry Sukol
Sports Editor....................................................................................................Stork Weborg
Managing Editor .......................................................................................................G. D. Zipf
Copy Editor..................................................................................................Barbara Hobbs
Photography Editor........................................................................................Don Whipple
Layout Editor......................... . . ......................................... Ralph Pritts
Editors at Large......................................................... Joyce Love
Assistant Photography Editor..............................................................Seth Karpen
Local Advertising Manager Mary Lipsett
News Staff: Bill Yard, Jon Manon, Sue Zimmerman, Roselle Mann,
and Karin Asin.
Features Staff: Rick Braverman, Mike Harbadin, Terence Palso,
and Mark Fromm.
Copy Staff: Duane Eilertson, Sydny Weinberg, and Cyndy Schmidt 
Photoqraphy Staff: Neil Binstock, Eliot Arons.
Sports Staff: Jude Heller, Lenny Beer, and Howie Shapiro. 
business Staff: Jude Heller and Tom Lampl.
<33QDi5QnQ55B!3M!aannQQaEQ!5a3nnQaBaanQ!3B2nnnaan!2aQQi
Any organization or group interested in building a booth for Midway 71 must submit in writing the name, address, and telephone number of both the president and booth chairman to: Jim Fennell, Midway Chairman, Phi Kappa Theat, Campus Mail. This information must be received no later than Wednesday, February 3.
Finnegan
Announcing the twelfth annual competition for the James A. Finnegan Fellowship Foundation Awards.
Eligible: Any Pennsylvaniastudent enrolled in an accredited college or university, or any non-resident student enrolled in an accredited Pennsylvania college or university, who is interested in making a career of work in politics or government.First Award: Six weeks internship to be served during the period from June to September (the exact dates to be set as mutually agreeable to the awardee and to the Directors of the Foundation), in a suitable governmental or political office, at a weekly stipend of $125.00.
Second Award: A similar sixweeks internship at a weekly stipend of $110.00.
Honorable Mention Awards: Aid in obtaining six-weeks internships at standard trainee compensation rates, plus cash prizes of $50.00 each.
Closing Date For Applications: March 1.
Awards will Be Made on or about March 26. All contestants will be notified.
Judges: The Directors of the Foundation will appoint an impartial Board of Judges to evaluate all applications and essays submitted in connection therewith, make all necessary investigations regarding applicants, and determine the Award winners on 
the basis of academic background, constructive participa
tion in extracurricular activities, and demonstrated aptitude for a career in government or politics. The decision of the Judges will be final.
For Application Forms - Write to James A. Finnegan Fellowship Foundation, P.O. Box 314, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108.
Volunteers needed:
To Rap with high school students and community groups about drugs, womens lib, the war, racism, campus unrest, the sexual, revolution and youth culture.
To tutor elementary and junior high students, especially in math language arts, and basic science.
To work with and supervise groups of junior and senior high kids.
Especially needed are people to teach arts and crafts, homemaking and sewing skills and any of the fine arts.
To become involved with community-change agencies (e.g. Free Clinic, Lettuce Boycott, Louise Child Care Center, Recognize All Potential) and to share and develop their ideas about community change on a continuing basis.
CONTACT: Y-office of Community Affairs, 57 Skibo, 621- 2600, ext. 239 or 416.
If you are interested in communication workshops, sensitivity groups, various lab situations  CONTACT: Y-Office of Community Affairs, 57 Skibo, Extension 239 or 416.
The 1970 Carnegie Melon will go on sale Monday at the Skibo Information Desk.
If you are interested in communication workshops, sensitivity groups, various lab situations CONTACT Y office of Community Affairs, 57 Skibo. Ext. 239 or 416.
Metropolitan Opera auditions are Sunday, January 24 at 1:30 in Exhibition Hall, Fine Arts Building. THE PUBLIC IS INVITED!
Judge: Andrea Velis of the Metropolitan Opera Company.
Bnai Brith Hillel Foundation on the college campuses will offer a free beginners course in Israeli Folk dancing, beginning Monday, January 18. The group will meet every Monday, from 3 - 5 p.m. at the YM&WHA at 315 S. Bellefield in Oakland, and is open to all interested college students.
Federal Service Entrance Examination test to be given on iCampus: Saturday, January 23, at 9 a.m. in Baker Hall 145 B&C.
Note: Engineers and othertechnically trained individuals need not tane the FSEE.
For further information: Bureau of Placements, 10 Skibo Hall.
Note: The Carnegie is the 1970 Yearbook.Melon
A limited number of openings for students desiring a group counseling experience will be available through the Counseling Center during Spring Semester. Students who are interested should contact one of the Secretary-Receptionists in Baker Hall 342-E as soon as possible but no later than Thursday, January 21.

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, January 21, 1971THE TARTANPage 7
THE EDITOR
0
*
r
(Continued from Page 6)
Union will not back the custodians up. Who will? If this condition happens again, they will refuse to work, because of the dangers to health and safety.
Then let McCurdy and Company clean up shit and puke - and see how well they stand for 
it.
A night-turn custodian in Skibo.
Dts1dPdneku
Letter to Ed. No. 3
The Department of Drama in its never-ending attempt to degrade, disenfranchise and generally dump upon its students, injected into an already tense and shoddy student-faculty relationship a document which it was pleased to entitle Rules for the Department. This travesty of the students basic right as human being, in the name of the spirit of cooperation occurred at the beginning of the school year.
The selection of William Nelson, the Departments law and order representative, to preside
fYOFF!
over the secret all-faculty drafting committee which convened over the summer was an efficient, if obvious move. Mr. Nelsons strong disciplinary ideas are reflected adequately, but apparantly not offensively enough for the Departments student artists.
Nor did the students seem terribly upset when they were neither informed, nor consulted about the drafting of these rules and objectives of the Department.
The rationale behind this documentwhich the students seem to have swallowed hook, line and sinkeris that it is merely the articulation of already understood, albeit unwritten, established rules of conduct; generally reflective of professional concern, attitude and principle.
It is, in actuality a contemptuous negation of even the most moderate of contemporary attitudes toward the newly-evolving student identity as committed and responsible individual. Another ton has been unloaded on the shit-bin.
We urge the students to join with factions currently engaged in dialogue with those responsible for this travesty, and to watch for interesting developments.
Name Withheld by Request
Youth City
To the campus :
Being in Pittsburgh over Christmas vacation, I found a worthwhile pasttime (!), which I would like to share with anyone who might be interested in helping a promising organization grow up a bit.
Youth City was officially organized a few months ago by Bill ONeil, a man not unfamiliar to many people here. While ostensibly an organization dedicated to trying to solve some of the personal problems which turn many young people to hard drugs, its purpose goes far beyond that idea. It is an attempt to create centerscitiesin the Pittsburgh area, where young people can get togethermaybe help each other, talk over their
L
OFF!
itseueus
)1ePdo S( ||
' * EVERYTHING!
q m i m (e{ okO 0du Wtgett ee !8n! )
200 SLAX $4.99 100 KNITS ..........2.99 BIG $PEGIAL$
200 JEANS ...$2.99 100 SWEATERS . 4.99 100 SHIRTS ... 4.99 .
BROTHERHOOD
ugu 2)4f)rm )61r01  Near University of Pktsburgh 
s W)k 46A Ef)q1  Downtownlllllllllllllllll
Both Locjfiorts
... Ougpgg yO 
uOgp80ss
AgetuE RtmeuPtP Tk Rtyk1n 
APP1tEEtEp f1 6gEt...
problemsmaybe exchange ideas and skills and find the faith to solve their own problems. Even more basic to the goal, though, is to build a place where young people can find others like themselvessomewhere where they can grow as individuals without being thrown out for loitering.
It is a promising idea, I think, and one which deserves to find the right people to help carry it through these rough early stages. Youth City is in desperate need of people who have the desire to devote a little piece of themselves to young people who have lost faith in other people, in the world, in themselves. It is a place where you can perhaps, find some personal fulfillment.
Although Youth City is far from solvent, there are a number of organizations and individuals helping with funds. Also, there has been a favorable amount of help offered by some Point Park College students.
CM-Us student body includes many people who could make tremendous contributions of ideas, man-power, and faith, (it really isnt corny) towards the development of an environment where young people could really find some fresh air. Youth City needs your help its a beautiful dream that needs people to fulfill it.
If you would like to know more about what you could do for Youth City, please call me (687- 1159), or, better still, visit the center at 304 Ross Street (downtown), at 281-4132 if you dont have traveling time. See whats happening theretalk to the people. Theyre helping to make this world a little better.
Thank you Lori Kaufman Sophomore, Drama
Immortal Rear
Editor, the TARTAN:
Whatever happened to Rattlesnake Charley Rear and immortal humor? I think his return from a rather lengthy vacation would be appreciated (at least by me).
Solemn A Soul
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, RaymondF. Farrell, announced today that non-citizens must report their addresses in January under a provision of the 1952 Immigration and Nationality Act.
More than 4,000,000 aliens reported their addresses last January. The figure is expected to reach at least 4,150,000 in January, 1971.
The address report requirement applies to all aliens admitted for permanent residence who have not yet been naturalized, as well as to aliens in the United States temporarily.
The Commissioner noted that the only exceptions are noncitizens in diplomatic status and foreign representatives of international organizations of which the United States is a member, such as the United Nations.
Aliens may fill out an address report card at the local United States Post Office or at the nearest office of the Immigration and Naturalization Ser
vice, or may mail it to the nearest office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. More than 90 percent of the aliens who reported last year filed their reports at local post offices.
Parents or guardians of alien children under 14 are required to fill out address reports for such children.
Legal guardians of aliens in custodial care should fill out address reports for such persons.
Commissioner Farrell said any alien who is ill may send a friend or relative to obtain the Address Report Card (Form 1-53) for him and then return the card by mail to the nearest office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.Aliens who are not in the United States during January must report their address to the Service within 10 days after their return.
Serious penalties may be imposed upon an individual who wilfully violates the Alien Address Report requirements.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Applications for the following positions will be accepted at the Skibo Information Desk until Tuesday, January 26.
1. Two juniors to work on theSpecial Events Coordinating Committee. This committeeplans the commencement ceremony, including such details as whether or not caps and gowns should be required.
2. Two students for the Campus Design Committee of the
Planning Council of Faculty Senate. The function of the Design Committee is to advise President Stever and the faculty concerning the physical development of the campus, location and design of new buildings, renovations, landscaping and other related matters.
Applications should include address and telephone number and should be addressed to: Patrick Cavanagh, Student Government.
GOOD EARTH NATURAL FOODS
2218 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
We provide a complete line of 
Natural Grains, Nuts, Honeys, Oils, Juices9 
Cheeses, Dried Fruits, Vitamins, 
and Organic Vegetables.
We want to nourish you with pure, unadulterated food,
... so come visit us at the above address.
NIXON
ON STAGE! 
IN PERSON!
M\
oo
Th
tnJZ-Aru
NOW THRU SAT., FEB. 13
EXACTLY AS SEEN ON BROADWAY
PRICES: Monday thru Saturday Eves, at 8:30 P. M. Orch $9.00- Men. $*.00; Bale. $6.00, $5.00. $4.00.
Wednesday Mai. at 2 P. M.Saturday Mat. at 2:30. Orch. $7.00: Men. $7.00; Bale. $5.00, $4.00. $3.00.
Make checks or money orders payable to NIXON THEATRE and 
mail to: Nixon Theatre, 956 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15258. 
You MUST enclose stamped, self-addressed envelope.I
THEATRE PARTIES: For Groups of 25 or more, call 281.0242 FOR TICKET INFORMATION. CALL 281-6773
GOOD SEATS NOW AT NIXON BOX OFFICEAlso all National Record Marts & Hilton Hotel Ticket Aqency

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANThursday, January 21, 1971ErAEkA)1rWErA
Chatham Calendar Poetry Forum
BONNIE AND CLYDE  January 22, 6. 8, 10 p.m.STORY OF WILL ROGERS  January 29, 7-9:30 p.m.ACT ONE  February 5, 7-9:30 p.m.HEART IS A LONELY HUNTERFebruary 12, 6 -10:15 p.m.BIG BOUNCE-February 12, 1 -1015, 8:15 p.m.ILLUSTRATED MAN  February 19, 7-9:30 p.m.HOTEL  February 26, 7-9:30 p.m.
DIABOLIQUE REFLECTIONS IN A GOLDEN EYE - March 5, 8-6-10 p.m.CHARLEYS AUNT - March 26, 7 - 9:30 p.m.WHOS AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF - April 2, 5:45-8, 10:15 p.m.LA BOHEME  April 9 , 7 - 9:30 p.m.RACHEL, RACHEL  April 16, 6 - 8,10 p.m.LOOK BACK IN ANGER - April 30, 7 - 9:30 p.m.NAKED RUNNER  April 30, 7 -9:30 p.m.
All films will be shown in Porter Hall 100
A Memory of Two Mondays
A Memory of Two Mondays, a play by Arthur Miller, represents the first in a series of NET playhouse productions concerning American life during the thirties. It is a portrayal of the bleak life of the American bluecollar worker during the Depression years.
Starring in the production are Kristoffer Tabori, Estelle Parsons, Jack Warden, George Gizzard, and Cathy Burns. It is produced by Peabody award winner recipient Jacqueline Babbin and directed by three time Emmy winner, Paul Bogart.
The Broadway Musical Man of La Mancha will be presented January 27 thru 30 at Westminster College, New Wilmington, Pa. The Beegley players will perform an 8:15 show nightly and a matinee at 2 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Box office (412- 946-8212) will be open daily from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. beginning January 11.
This production of Man of La Mancha is under the direction of Earl C. Lammel, assistant professor of Speech and Drama at Westminster College. Musical direction is by Carol A. Schoenhard. Louis A. Lager is the scenic designer. The choreography is being staged by Eileen Lager, instructor at Slippery Rock State College.
TRIVIA
by BARTON SCHINDEL
A recent survey of litter along 
a one mile stretch of two-lane highway in the State of Kansas found 770 paper cups, 730 empty cigarette packages, 590 beer cans, 130 pop bottles, 120 beer bottles, 110 wisky bottles, 90 beer cartons, 90 oil cans, and
456 other pieces of assorted litter.
A new law in the state of Michigan makes it possible for a convicted litterbut to be sentenced to three days of hard labor picking up litter.
( Continued on Page 10)
PITTSBURGH PREMIERE THIS WEEKEND! 
NINE NEW SHORT FILMS FROM 
INDEPENDENT YOUNG FILMMAKERS
. A C1NEMUS MAXIMUS
DATE: January 22, 23 and 24 
TIME: 8:00 p.m.
PLACE: 120-121 David Lawrence Hall (Common Facilties) 
ADMISSION: $1.50/students $2.00/all others
February and March
January 17 - February 7  Falk Hall Foyer, Exhibit of Prints and Drawings by L. Corinth (Smithsonian)
Monday, February 1, 8 p.m.  The Chapel, ALEX HALEY Author, Autobiography of Malcolm X
February 5 and 6, 8:30 p.m.  The Chapel, CHATHAM COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF DRAMA, Murder in the Cathedral by T. S. Eliot
February 14 - March 7  Falk Hall Foyer, Exhibit - Sculpture by Carl Heeschen
Monday, February 15, 8:30 p.m.  The Chapel, Amram-Barrow Quartet, with David Amram Jazz Concert
Thursday, April 1, 8 p.m.  The Chapel, William Jay Smith, Poet
The INTERNATIONAL POETRY FORUM will present Alexander Scourby in an evening of readings entitled Walt Whitmans America.
Mr. CScourby, noted actor of stage, screen, radio, and television, will come to Pittsburgh to launch 1971 at the International Poetry Forum on Wed. February 10 at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland.
Tickets are available at Pitt Student Union, Duquesne Student Union and the Forum office in Carnegie Library, Oakland.
Tchaikovsky
Tchaikovskys Swan Lake, in one of the few full-length performances in the nation, will be presented by the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre at Syria Mosque, Friday, February 26, at 8 p.m.
Ticket information and reservations may be had by calling the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre office at 391-4100.
At The Playhouse
January 7 - January 31  No Strings February 4 - Marcy 7  Catch Me If You Can March 11 - April 4  Under the Gaslight April 8 - May 9  Plaza Suite May 6 - May 30  Guys & Dolls
Man of La Manchamuseum of art
Two new collections at the Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute:
Mary Thaw Thompson Collection of Lace, in the Treasure Room, through January, and Selected Water Colors and Drawings from the Collection, the Balcony of Decorative Arts
Hall, continuing for an indefinate period.
Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Galleries are open until 9 p.m. on Tuesdays through March 23. Sunday hours are from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
PR6GNANT? 
N66D H6mP?
YOUR QUESTIONS ON
ABORTION
CAN ONLY BE FULLY ANSWERED BY
PRf)6SS2fNAmS
CALL (215) 878-5800 
2b hours 7 days
FOR TOTALLY C0NFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
LH>I Abortions Without Delay
1965 
Midnight Blue GTO
Loaded  Good Condition 
Best Offer Accepted 
CALL 563-4695
Virtuoso
Piano virtuoso Earl Wild will be soloist with the CarnegieMellon College/Community Orchestra at a free concert in Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland, Sunday, Jan. 24 at 8:30 p.m.
Gallery
A collection of Eskimo Prints and Drawings is presently being shown in the Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts. The gallery is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekdays. The exhibit will be open until January 29.
Godounov
Tickets for the opera Boris Godounov are now on sale in Room 100, College of Fine Arts. Dates of the opera: January 21 and 23. Price of the tickets: $2.00 Location: C section of second balcony in Syria Mosque.
FEATURES
EDITORIAL
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos and Pipes 
in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 FORBES ST. 681-6045
Nationally Advertised Pipe
SEEK CAMPUS REPS
Students or campus organi
zation sought to represent us 
on-campus for leasing and 
purchase of tax-free cars for 
use in Europe by students 
and faculty. Earn flat fee  
big bonus earnings potential.
For application write: Dir. Student 
Faculty Program, Car-Tour* in Eu
rope, 555 Fifth Avenue, NYC 10017.
Last semester, in an attempt to make the TARTAN more of a campus newspaper, we, the Features editors, devoted 30-60 inches of space each week to what we considered to be articles that were often uninventive. Due to the fact that the newspaper is for the campus community, we wanted it to SERVE the community. However, we found that oftentimes these univentive, more necessary articles pre-empted what we considered to be wellwritten articles by students. In several instances our ability to exercise editorial descrimination was infringed upon by political obligations to specific individuals.In addition, at the same time that one of our contributors was taking up space, he advocated defunding the TARTAN. Ironic, isnt it?
Though this particular contributor has gone with the wind, we are bothered by the fact that
the members of the university community have requested the defunding of the TARTAN and have disfigured the open-minded intent of this years TARTAN staff while refraining from offering any constructive suggestions. For some members of the university community it is easier to condemn the TARTAN staff as a group of cliquish, criminal editors rather than to recognize them as unadvised innovators of journalism. Though some faculty and students want to take away the necessary money from the TARTANs weekly publication, we suggest that an alternative be considered. Give the TARTAN the necessary journalism advisor, the necessary instruction and academic credit to staff members so that the paper might better serve the campus community.
Sherry Sukol and Sam McCool Features Editors

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, January 21, 1971 THE TARTANPage 9
boVan dlize tOan
Perhaps a good indication of the state of the film industry in 1970 is the fact that there were more contenders for the list of the ten worst films than there were for the list of the ten best. After deliberation, however, this writer has managed to eliminate some of the hotter contenders and has arrived at the following list of films which he would recommend be seen only as an alternative to a thirty-fifth rerun of I LOVE LUCY.
THE ADVENTURERS. Nothing has been left out of THE ADVENTURERS! screamed the ads, but unfortunately they were wrong. Good taste, acting, direction, pacing, and a plot line that could be readily accepted by anyone with an IQ greater than that of an over-ripe cantalope were all missing from this over-long, overblown Harold Robbins epic.
BLOODY MAMA. It was too much to expect another BONNY AND CYLDE, and anyone who saw that this was an American-International film expected a lot less. Shelley Winters attempted to play Ma Barker, but the odds and seemingly every man in the cast was against her. From the first memorable scene where she gets raped by her father and maybe her brothers, to the rest of the movie where with her murderous sons she proves that incest begins at home, this film went steadily downhill.
NED KELLY. Tony Richardson was given the assignment of directing Rolling Stone Mick Jagger in his first movie. Unfortunately Richardson appears to have been out to lunch while the film was being made, for not only does it lack direction, but even with his satanic majesty the picture turned out to be about as interesting and exciting as a soft-boiled egg.
MYRA BRECKINRIDGE. Michael Scarne directed the film version of Gore Vidals pornographic classic with all the good taste of someone who gets his kicks by putting cushions on chairs at parties. Acting in this fiasco were Rex Reed in a tailor-made role, Raquel Welch proving that she can act, Mae West who has become the sexiest living corpse this side of a zombie flick, and veteran director John Houston who should be ashamed for not knowing a lot better.
BEYOND THE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS. Former nudie king, Russ Meyer clearly showed that a film cannot survive on lots of' beautiful, well-endowed, naked women as his first major film became not only the worst film of the year, but one of the worst movies of all time.
THE OUT-OF-TOWNERS. Jack Lemmon (who used to know a good role when he saw one) starred with Sandy Dennis (Who still looks like the drunk she played in WHOS AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLFE?) in this film about a loud-mouthed man and his mousy wife who get into all sorts of idiotic predicaments in New York City. Most of their fixes result from their own stupidity.
SOLDIER BLUE. Definitely not a film to see before, after or during lunch, this picture showed the glorious living color massacre of harmless, helpless indians by the cruel white man. Attempting to be relevant, this film succeeded only in being a confused, sensationalistic, horrible motion picture.
MOVE. 1970 saw four Eliot Gould films released. In M*A*S*H he reached the zenith of his powers. In this film he hit rock bottom. Lets face it, moving to another apartment just isnt an exciting, confusing, surrealistic experience.
C. C. AND COMPANY. When it comes to acting, Joe Nemath is one helluva quarterback. Looking as if he was not quite sure what was going on, he managed to deliver his lines in such a manner that at any minute the audience expected him to say, Yeah, Chris, that was a great play. . . Ann-Margret did little to advance her career either in this motorcycle film that was even a poor sample of the genre.
WHERES POPPA? George Segal tried to save this film, but it was like trying to bail out the Titanic with a fleas navel. The first fifteen minutes of the film are really funny, but thats about all of the laughs which can be dredged out of a plot which involves a young mans attempts to kill his senile mother because he promised his dying father that he would never put her into a home. The widely touted tush scene is not worth the price of a bad five-cent cigar, let alone admission. What thrills; what a sickening mess.
CHALLENGING POSITIONS
in Manufacturing, Research & Develop
ment, and Sales are available with FMC 
CHEMICALS.
Our Recruiter will be on campus 
FEBRUARY 4, 1971 
to interview Seniors and Graduates in
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
CHEMISTRY 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING
FWq qHEW1q)fS
Putting deas to Work in 
Machinery * Chemicals * Defense * Fibers & Films 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
OF 
1970
by TERENCE N. PALSO
RUGS
)fR m6SS
(WITH YOUR ID CARD)
1000-9x12 RUGS
$15, $19, $25, $29
ALSO 6x9'*, 12x12', 12*15'*, ETC.
CHASE'S
5432 Walnut St., Shadyside
Open Daily 10 am to 9 pm 
(Saturday 10 am to 5 pm) 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 621-1025
_______________CLIP AND SAVE.
LOW COST, SAFE, LEGALABORTION
IN NEW YORK 
SCHEDULED IMMEDIATELY 
(212) 490-3600
PROFESSIONAL SCHEDULING SERVICE, Inc 545 Fifth Ave., New York City 10017There is a fee for our service.
Any list of the best of anything for the previous year should be accompanied by an explanation of the viewpoint taken by its compiler. Without such a reference point, it becomes difficult for the reader to properly evaluate and place into perspective what he is reading. As the last thing that this writer desires to do is cause confusion and consternation among everyone out there in reader land, he will explain his basis for choosing his ten best films.
The films below were selected from the one hundred and fourteen films which this writer saw during the last year. Due to the fact that many films do not get into Pittsburgh for several months after they have played in New York, a number of excellent motion pictures such as THEY SHOOT HORSES, DONT THEY?, and Z which this writer saw during the past year are not included on this list since they were commercially released before December 31, 1969 and to qualify for this list, a film had to be released during 1970.
So now thats out of the way, here in the order in which he saw them are what this writer feels to have been the best films of1970.
M*A*S*H. This was a wonderfully irreverent motion picture which made the most out of the talents of Elliot Gould and Donald Sutherland. Robert Altmans direction was excellent and his expertise kept the audience laughing while the veins, both comic and otherwise, kept spurting.
PATTON. This film starred George C. Scott, no, scratch that, this film was carried by George C. Scott, who gave the performance of the year in a role with subplots, or even romantic entanglements. For almost three hours he was seldom off the screen and the audience never noticed the time.
WOODSTOCK. A fantastic documentary which captured the event instead of just chronicling it, Michael W'adleighs motion picture proved to be far more than just an overblown sequel to MONTEREY POPit was simply THE pop festival film.
LOVING. Probably the most overlooked film of 1970, this picture played for something like two days in a first run blitz of local theaters and ever since has infrequently been on the second or third parts of the bill at drive-ins and neighborhood theaters. Directed by Irvin Kershner, the film starred George Segal and Eva Marie Saint in a beautifully acted drama about the disintegration of a middle class marriage.
THE VIRGIN AND THE GYPSY. Christopher Miles directed Joanna Shimkus and Franco Nero in this gentle, fragile motion picture dealing with a young womans struggle to choose a life style which is not full of the hypocracies which she finds in Victorian England. The film was excellently phogographed to capture the cold, formal tones of Victorian society.
JOE. Peter Boyle played the hard hat title character with such effectiveness that any long haired freaks who saw the film will think twice before walking past a construction site. Low budgeted, but well done, this film worked its way to a climax which shocked even those who were prepared for it.
THE DIARY OF A MAD HOUSEWIFE. Frank and Eleanor Perry did an excellent job on this picture which should be required viewing for anyone who is even contemplating marriage. Although Richard Benjamin was more of a caricature than a character, the ability of actress Carrie Snodgrass was more than enough to carry the film across to the audience as a winner.
BORSALINO. The American gangster film is alive and well in France. Jacques Deray directed Jean-Paul Balmondo and Alain Delon in what may well become a classic of the genre. Containing probably the best sets and costumes of any film this year, this picture was magnificent in almost every detail.
LOVERS AND OTHER STRANGERS. Very simply, this film was the comedy of the year. The best example of ensemble acting in recent memory, the picture kept moving at a hilariously even pace making audiences laugh at the institutions which they hold dear until they ached. Director Cy Howard clearly knows what comedy is all about, and he makes even the cynics in the audience remember.
THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT. This film shows even those who do not go wild over the mention of Barbara Streisands name that the lady can certainly do more than sing. An excellent comedianne, she makes the perfect foil for George Segals straight intellectual character. Together under Herbert Ross skillful direction they emerge as the comedy team of the year.
Applications for 
Chairman of Freshman Orientation
are now available 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
They must be turned in by January 26th.
-------1
REA COFFEE HOUSE
I
CHATHAM COLLEGE
(Basement of Rea House)
OPEN 9 P.M. - FRIDAYS
Films and Entertainment
FREE ADMISSION

---------------------------------------------------

; $,-'V
Anyone interested in Coming Out 
For The Track Team Should Come 
To Field House (under Donner Hall) 
on Monday, 25 January 
at 4:30 P.M.
C-MU vs. LOCK HAVEN
400 YDS. MEDLEY RELAY LH, 4:15.2.
100 YDS. FREEFreeman (C-MU), Bloxham (LH), Sivak (C-MU), 
13:15.7.
200 YDS. FREEHammer (LH), Marks (C-MU), Kacinko (LH), 2:18.9.
50 YDS. FREEHammer (LH), Climer (C-MU), Edwards (LH), 0:23.9.
200 YDS. IND. MEDLEYWeaver (LH), Miller (C-MU), Haysan (CMU), 2:24.2.
DIVEProvan (C-MU), Ohlson (C-MU), Briggs (LH), 112.35 pts.
200 YDS. BUTTERFLYLaRochelle (C-MU), Marks (C-MU), Bloxham 
(LH), 2:39.
100 YDS. FREEHammer (LH), Climer (C-MU), Crapster (C-MU), 
0:54.5.
200 YDS. BACKMiller (C-MU), Lowry (C-MU), F. Kacinko (LH), 
2:28.8.
500 YDS. FREEFreeman (C-MU), Sivak (C-MU), Edwards (LH), 
6:31.8.
200 YDS. BREASTWeaver (LH), Haysan (C-MU), McDaniels (LH), 
2:39.
400 YDS. RELAY-C-MU (Crapster, LaRochelle, Freeman, Climer), 
3:49.6.
FINAL SCORE: C-MU, 67; Lock Haven, 46
Page 10THE TARTANThursday, January 21, 1971
TRIVIA
( Continued from Page 8)
According to the Coca-Cola company, if the 15,000,000,000 soft drinks sold in throw-away cans and bottles sold nationwide were sold in returnable bottles, this would save the consumer $600,000,000.
Air pollution filters out sunlight which causes higher lighting bills. Chicago loses 40 percent of its sunlight and New
York City 25 percent due to air 
pollution.
The automobile is responsible for 60 percent of all air pollution and up to 90 percent in some urban areas.
A Japanese newspaper, Mainich Shimban, discovered that polluted water can be used to develop photographs. On September 4, 1970, the paper printed a photograph developed with water collected from rivers.
qpW0 mEB0A
WkESAf1rG
One thing can be said for C-MUs newest varsity sport wrestling; things have to get better. Before our semester break the Tartan grapplers lost to Westminster at New Wilmington by 32-7. Renzo Venturi won by forfeit in the 190 pound weight class and Tom Diller tied at 150 pounds.
Despite its rather inauspicious beginning, the wrestling team was anxious for its first home meet last Saturday, Jan. 16. Head Coach Paul Steva (also the school trainer) took the responsibility of publicizing the meet with flyers passed out during registration. There was a crowd of 200 fans in Skibo Gym to witness the first varsity wrestling match in the history of Carnegie-Mellon. Unfortunately, the visiting Allegheny College team was unaware of the afternoons historic signicance. Theirs was not a friendly visit. After trailing 10-8 with the completion of the first four matches, the Gator grapplers won the last six matches by pins. The final result was a 38-10 victory by Allegheny. Phil Youngkin in the 126 pound class won by default and Peter Kelston in the 142 pound class pinned his opponent to lodge the only individual C-MU victories.
Obviously varsity wrestling is nothing like the theatrical showmanship of Studio (TV) wrestling. Intelligence plus physical strength and fitness are necessary to implement the intricate and strategic moves. Come out and support this fast-moving, exciting and enjoyable new sport. All home matches will be in the Skibo Gym.
SW1WW1rG
The well-established swimming team seems to be in spectator competition with the newly founded varsity wrestling. While wrestling was making its debut before a substantial crowd in the gym, the swimming team was in the process of drowning Westminster. Unfortunately, the official statistics have been misplaced, but unofficially we won 60 something to 30 or 40 something.
The diving competition has greatly improved over the past years. Sr. Scott Provan has been doing outstandinly well this year. His protegee, Freshman Mark Ohlson, is usually close behind.
The swimming team in general is stronger than it has been in previous years. Despite small crowds, the swimmers continue to excell in their meets.
On Jan. 23, the swimming team will meet the swimmers from Washington and Jefferson at 2 p.m. in the Tech pool. Even though its cold outside its still nice and warm near the pool, so why not show up and support the team?

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, January 21, 1971THE TARTANPage 11
BB GOES WILD AT HOME!!
GENEVA
prospects of a 16-3 season loom now for the C-MU basketball team after an exciting 80-75 victory over Geneva on Dec. 11 at Skibo Gym. The Tartans now have a 1-3 record and need only 15 more victories to equal the C-MU record for wins in a season. But nobody will really care about the score of each game if they are as close and thrilling as the last.
C-MU had the lead almost the 
tue1t game but Geneva came back 
nk within two points at 63-61 and 
nCt 8Ou began. Mike Conrad hit a jumper from the corner just be
8k1t he fouled out to make it 65-61, 
duP after Geneva missed two foul 
ECknEp the wonderfully imagina
net referees called a jump ball at 
0tunt1 court after a tie-up on the 
8gkk1. C-MU won the jump, their 
8e1En triumph of this sort since 
akd0C Moe fled the campus, and 
ukw it was clear that fate was 
ku nCt Tartans side.
Gene Turner put in four points among several Geneva free throws to make the score 69-67, and with 2:10 left Frank Westmeyer made a clutch play by tipping in a missed C-MU shot to make it 71-67. Then Kevin Cotter found himself all alone underneath the hoop for a layup and CMU kept the lead by trading points the rest of the way.
The foul shooting in the last few minutes, as in the entire game, was horrendous, except for Turner and Cotter, but C-MU shot a sizzling 56 per cent from the floor, in comparison to Genevas 41 per cent.
C-MU shot so well because they took good shots. At times they ran, giving them some easy layups, and when they set up they worked the ball around until somebody was open.
Most of the time this was Turner, who scored 31 points, or Cotter, who had 16 points and led C-MU in rebounding with 12 grabs. Turner also took control of the Tartans on the floor and this was the main reason for C-MUs improved play.
Freshman Mike Wegener started his first varsity game, played 36 minutes before fouling out and looked very impressive.
Other highlights were Jeff Hollis excitations after Gene Turner sank some clutch free throws at the end of the game and a stirring traditional rendition of the National Anthem before the contest, led by former C-MU great Dave Stobbe.
C-MUs next victim is Westminster, and reports indicate that bookmakers have taken the game of the board, afraid of C-MUs newly-found power.
WESTMINSTER
There it was, in the flesh on the court, in front of thousands of anxious eyes (a slight exaggeration), a driving, pulsating force not be be resistedthe C-MU basketball team!
The cause of these praising phrases? Simply a tremendous come-from-behind victory by CMU against a heavily favored Westminster team which had defeated them easily earlier in the season.
The final score was 89-71 but several more important facts arenecessary:
1. Odds were given before the game, Westminster by 20 points.
1. C-MU trailed 47-44 at the half.
3. C-MU trailed 59-48 in the second half.
4. C-MU scored 16 straight points in the second half.
5. C-MU outscored Westminster, 41-12, in the last 14 minutes.
6. C-MU scored 10-12 foul shots to bring them from behind.
It just had to be seen to be believed, Mike Conrad putting in four baskets within several minutes, Gene Turner leading the offense, Jeff Hollis seemingly everywhere rebounding, running and shooting, Kevin Cotter playing his usual consistent game.
Westminster ran into foul trouble and the Tartans took advantage of this. The Titans also had an off night shooting, but nothing should be taken away from the super effort of the Tartans.
(Another big winner for the Tartans was Dexter Murphy, who skillfully confiscated $5 from this reporters wallet by confidently placing his money on C-MU.)
ST. VINCENT
Early in December the C-MU basketball team lost to St. Vincent, 82-62, on a Wednesday night. Prospects of a good season seemed doomed as the Tartans played one of the sloppiest games on record. The Tartans played catch-up ball for the majority of the game but just couldnt put anything together. It was a good example of a young team still trying anxiously to find their strong points.
When Geneva visited Skibo gym later in December the Tartans went into a run-and-gun type of ball game and literally blew the Tornadoes off the floor, 80-75. The Tartans found a competent field marshall in Gene Turner and got the ball to him whenever they could.
Westminster came to Pittsburgh looking for another win (they beat C-MU earlier in the year, 89-80, at Westminster). The Tartans, however, were overflowing with confidence. Although they trailed for the majority of the game, their running-and-gunning techniques accomplished two
C-MU 80, GENEVA 75
C-MUFG FTPts.GenevaFGFTPts.
AOg00- 00Aggtu01- 11
aku1dP60- 012AOgnmdu24- 48
aknnt156- 616Dtad1gk20- 44
HkggeE01- 21SCt88etgP109-1229
Rodu21- 35HOWWd1P80- 116
TO1ut1217- 931TeuEnmdu22- 46
(tEnmtot111- 23a1tdEmdu20- 04
(tstut160- 312Hdgg00- 00
fuOEkd31- 27
ZtC00- 00
Totals3216-2680Totals2917-2875
C-MU 62, ST. VINCENT 82
C-MUFGFTPts.St. VincentFGFTPts.
AOg04- 64DemOEek61- 213
aku1dP31- 37V1dWtg66-1018
aknnt100- 00it11et120- 04
HkggeE50- 210f'SCtd32- 38
Vku meuPt1u00- 10Ktggto53- 313
Rodu13- 45RkEd1ek10- 32
TO1ut1144- 4324t1ty104- 524
(tstut120- 04Totals2512-2062Totals3316-2882
C-MU 48, GROVE CITY 71
C-MUFGFTPts.Grove CityFGFTPts.
(tsut122- 36it1ne43- 411
aknnt111- 23qkunskmt1o12- 24
aku1dP00- 00RkC1t140- 08
Rodu10- 02adeytu31- 17
TO1ut164- 416Ndso33- 49
HkggeE20- 24(d1P105- 625
AOg00- 00ad1110- 02
(tEnmtot171- 115RkWt1nE12- 24
Vku meuPt1u00- 00Rknnmtu01- 21
(1esCn10- 02Totals208-1248Totals2717-2171
things: first and most important, they moved C-MU into the lead (the tying point and the go ahead point were two consecutive shots by Jeff Hollis) and secondly, the fans loved it.
Sporting an improving record, the C-MU basketball team traveled to Grove City this past Saturday and learned a valuable lesson. They discovered that what youve done in the past games is not as important as concentrating on the game youre in. The Tartans played with a conceited confidence that they could break the game open again as usual. C-MU lost, 71-48. The defense was good at preventing Grove City from getting a good shot but the rebounding was terrible which allowed the Grovers to capitalize on their missed shots. Frank Westmeyer played a good offensive game, looking for the open shot and not throwing the ball away.
The Tartans are now 2-4. They seem to be a hometown ball club that is excited and motivated by the crowds. If youve seen the exciting C-MU hoopsters in action, then you know what I mean. They may not win all of their remaining games but after Saturdays loss you can be sure they will be running and rebounding and giving 110 per cent in each and every game. The next home games are scheduled for Friday and Saturday, Jan. 29 and Jan. 30. You know the team is exciting, why not come and support them!
ATHLETIC 
BOARD
The newly re-organized athletic board held its first meeting in the blue conference room on the sixth floor of Warner Hall at 3:30 Tuesday afternoon.
The attendance was surprisingly lacking. M. Weiner, W. Weborg (Stork), and J. Fricker were there as student representatives; E. Fisher from Fine Arts and R. MacCamy from math represented the faculty. One faculty member, H. Paxton from metallurgy was excused. Two students representatives, J. Dzura and T. Lee, and the entire alumni representation, A. Frank, A. Komer and J. Ewalt were AWOL. Other Members present were Dr. Kibby, Mr. Haynes and Dean Swank.
This was a general introductory meeting. Actually, it was more of a bull session with many ideas, opinions and areas of concern explored. Two areas were agreed upon as requiring more intense discussions. The first is in enhancing the defunct communication systems supposedly at work on campus. The second area concerns projecting a more efficient method of recruiting both good athletes and excellent scholars. Both areas concern getting people (students, prospective students, faculty, alumni, etc.) to know w hats happening at C-MU.
If you have any particular items that you think require the attention of the athletic board, please refer them to your representative and ask him to be at the next meeting. Although no specific date has been set for the next meeting, it will be soon.
JEFF HOLLIS
Doesnt Wear 
A 
Jockstrap
STORKS
SPORTS
TROPHY?
by LENNY BEER
The IM trophy, for those of you who are unaware, is awarded to the organization that accumlates the most points in intramural sports during the school year. Points are awarded to the first through fourth place teams in a sport such as basketball, as well as to league champions. A team finishing in first place could earn 12 points. The trophy is usually taken by an organization with upwards of 70 points.
It is my contention that the IM trophy and the battle for points that it produces is the only negative aspect of the C-MU intramural sports scene. Due to the existence of the trophy, the intramural board has constructed rules limiting people from crossing organizational lines and playing with the people that might otherwise be teammates. For example, graduate and undergraduate students cannot participate on the same team in a major sport (a team which is competing for precious points), independents cannot participate on a fraternity team, and beginning this year the Old Men grad team has been separated from the Mudge grads. Can this move possibly be a reflection of the fact that the fratenity dominated intramural board is trying to stop last years champions, the Old Men.
Intramural sports are for those (of us) who either cannot or choose not to play varsity sports. Why then must we be pressured by restricting rules and by those striving for the all-sports trophy? Competition in each sport will not be reduced and enjoyment might be greatly enhanced by the elimination, or shall I say the retirement of the IM trophy.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
WRESTLING - C-MU action against Waynesburg JVs this Saturday, Jan. 23, in Skibo gym.
Next Wednesday, Jan. 27, CMU grapplers take on Gannon, away.
SWIMMINGSwim team takes on Washington and Jefferson this Saturday, Jan. 23, in Skibo gyms pool.
BASKETBALLHoopers against St. Vincent on Saturday, Jan. 23, at St. Vincent.
Basketball action at Waynesburg Monday, Jan. 25.
COMING UP! Important, exclusive interview with Marchie Schwartz!
Gf 
TARTANS...

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANThursday, January 21, 1971
Applying to a GRADUATE SCHOOL?
ENGineering?  DENTal? Mg W&fKtk 
NURSing? - LCB Photos? mM
Pgduueus d T1ey HX9 H 
fV6RS6AS?
Passport  Visa  Immigration
B0)A)q 1/2 Hour Service 
rllV  V9 While-U-Wait
AMERICAN-INTERNATIONAL PASSPORT PHOTOS
Downtown, 2nd Floor, 969 Liberty Ave. Call 261-4941
10% DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD
experiences which makes this film so disturbingly intriguing: the viewer begins to wonder if he is enjoying the film, or if he is enjoying being reminded of some of the good times he has lived through.
This writer suspects that the latter reason is more responsible for making the greater part of the film enjoyable than the picture itself. LOVE STORY is unsettling because it is just too, simple, too beautiful, and too perfect of a story. Hillers direction makes the most out of what he has been given, but towards the end it becomes too much for him to handle and he lets the film degenerate into the worst kind of pathetic tear-jerker imaginable. One scene in a hospital room especially is so embarrassingly maudlin that it will probably be repeated in practically every film that can get away with it this year.
The cinematography is also, of course, beautiful. It entails the sort of shots that can make slushly New York streets seem to be so wonderful. Ali McGraws crooked tooth comes across as being so marvelous and wonderful that after a while one begins to believe that Hiller could show Miss McGraw squeezing a pimple and even that would lyrically stunning.
The film stars Miss McGraw who just happens to be married to the head of Paramount (well, its not the first time that that sort of thing has been done), and Ryan ONeal. While Miss McGraws role just calls for her to look pretty, desirable and intelligent while occasionally showing how adapt she is at swearing. Mr. ONeals role calls for more. He has to run around in cold weather without a sufficently warm jacket as an undergraduate (he gets warmer clothes when he goes to law schoolcould this be a symbol?), while maintaining a cold attitude toward his rich father and at the same time loving Miss McGraw. It is a credit to both of them that inspite of what they have to work with that they almost make the entire thing believeable.
It is John Marley, however, playing Miss McGraws father who steals every scene that he is in and turns in the best performance of the picture. Mr. Marley is the same man who was so tremendous in FACES and here he clearly shows that that performance was no mistake. Marleys acting even overshadows that of veteran actor Ray Milland who as ONeals millionaire, father looks like he had one too many lost weekends.
There is little doubt that LOVE STORY will be a box office success. As the majority of the film audience is under 30 and this film clearly plays upon their emotions and memories, it cannot fail. What is unfortunate, however, is the fact that Hollywood likes to try to repeat successes. If the rash of musicals spawned by the SOUND OF MUSIC is any indication, movie audiences in the future are going to be subjected to a rash of tearjerkers as the film industry moves ahead into the forties.
STUDENT
HELP
CENTER
683-2133
{ Between Classes or at Study Break |
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3913 FORBES AVENUE j
. . . and ... *
 ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE }
Change for the better 
with AlcoaQALCDA
leaving the theater. LOVE STORY is that type of a movie and if there is anyone left who has not read the book, let them be forwarned.
This writer was one of the uninitiated and was shocked to find female members of the audience in tears from the first two minutes until the credits at the end. From what he was able to gather, the film was the book and oh, so much more. Now this is very interesting since the film came first and was withheld from distribution when the book became the 
hottest selling property the publishing industry has seen in a long time.
LOVE STORY is just as simple as the title implies and was clear
ly played for every tear it was worth by scriptwriter Erich Segal. A great deal of credit must be given to director Arthur Hiller who greatly resisted what must have been a strong impulse to milk every scene for all the sentiment that he could. Hiller has instead kept the film for the most part within the bounds of sensibility with the disturbing result that the viewer actually begins to believe and accept what is being shown. In fact, one can actually identify with some of the incidents being shown, for they are the type of things that happen to all but the hardened cynics when one has a had an undergraduate affair with a beautiful, intelligent young woman. It is this reminder of past loves, lovers, and
We think so. Because honest 
improvements are always 
welcome.
The aluminum 2 x 4 is part of 
the completely new Alcoa^ 
Alumiframe* building system. 
And it just might revolutionize
by TERENCE N. PALSO 
What can you say about a movie about a 25 year old girl who dies? First of all, the best thing to do would be to warn the uninitiated to bring at least three boxes of Kleenex along if they are the type that cries at weddings and funerals, because they are going to use
every last tissue. It would also be a good idea to borrow the hip boots that the guy across the street uses to go fishing, because they will be necessary if one desires to keep ones shoes from being soaked and ruined from stepping in the puddles of tears that will be encountered entering and
the homebuilding business.
Its light, strong, economical. 
Goes up quick and easy. Wont 
give way to weathering or 
termites.
And it saves beautiful green 
trees for the better things in life.
The Alumiframe system is just 
one example of the fine ideas 
in aluminum that come from 
Alcoa. A company that cares 
about tomorrows world.
Trademark of Aluminum Company of America.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
