PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
FORUMSCI-TECH
Pa. legislators would be wise to privatize liquor sales  A8The Lion King roars into Pittsburgh  B6Researchers pave way for self-driving cars  A4
ALVIN MATHEW
Staffwriter
The Tepper School of Business may be expanding in 
the not-so-distant future. On 
Sept. 23, an undergraduate 
student town hall meeting 
was held to discuss preliminary plans for a new, larger 
building on campus devoted 
to the school.
Consultants from Brightspot Strategy, led by founder 
Elliot Felix, delivered a presentation in Posner Halls Mellon Auditorium that aimed to 
get input and reactions from 
students about the companys 
design requirements brief 
draft for the new building.
According to a written design brief draft from Brightspot, In 2010, the Tepper 
School engaged the architecture ?rm Kohn Pedersen Fox 
(KPF) to plan for its expansion and relocation, including 
selecting a site on the Morewood lot across Forbes Avenue as well as determining an 
initial program of spaces and 
building massing concept.
Three years later, this collaboration with Brightspot 
is continuing with an update 
to KPFs work by creating a 
future design that quanti?es 
and relates the components 
of the building. The document and Felixs presentation 
suggest that there have been 
various complaints about the 
present facilities used by Tepper, including that Posner 
Hall does not create an ideal 
or convivial atmosphere for 
students; that there is little 
?exibility to accommodate 
change; and that there is not 
enough space designated to 
the school in terms of classrooms, communal areas, and 
larger spaces for events.
The design requirements 
NOL UM 
News Editor
Many CulinArt employees 
stepped out from behind the 
cash registers of Entropy+ 
and Carnegie Mellons campus 
eateries onto the sidewalk of 
Forbes Avenue to hand out ?yers asking for increased wages 
last Wednesday.
Since the universitys contract with CulinArt Inc. expired on June 30, 32BJ Service Employees International 
Union (SEIU)  the union 
representing Carnegie Mellons service workers  has 
been ?ghting to increase the 
wages of it members at Carnegie Mellon.
CulinArt employees at 
Carnegie Mellon currently 
earn $10.30 per hour, which is 
$3.05 over the minimum wage 
in Pennsylvania. 
Workers have been complaining that although the 
price of the meal plan has increased by 37 percent in the 
past decade, the revenue has 
not been passed onto the employees.
According to 32BJ SEIU 
calculations, the average 
Carnegie Mellon CulinArt employee gets paid $21,424 per 
year. 
Director of 32BJ SEIU Hermaine Delaney reported that 
Carnegie Mellon CulinArt employees get paid less than food 
service workers at Duquesne 
University and the University 
of Pittsburgh.
The union believes that 
CulinArt employees are not 
being paid wages comparable 
to their skill sets, which include learning how to cook, 
avoid cross-contamination, be 
aware of food safety zones and 
food temperatures, and learn 
how to accommodate to various dietary needs.
32BJ SEIU ?eld representative Peter Schmidt commented, In some fast food places, 
service workers are making 
as much as $15 per hour, and 
most of the skills learned by 
CulinArt employees are not 
required there at all. Workers 
here are providing a very speci?c skill sets and should be 
compensated ?nancially for 
that.
Schmidt added, One of 
the things we are trying to 
accomplish with our union 
membership is to make sure 
that everybody has one good 
job that they can rely on without having to work a second 
or third job. So that theyll 
have time to go back to school 
if they want to, spend time 
with their families, live a normal life instead of constantly 
working.
Due to the nature of working at a university, many 
CulinArt employees are laid 
off for holiday breaks.
Vashawn Davis, a CulinArt 
employee, said, It de?nitely 
makes it harder, the [school] 
work schedule. Some people 
have to apply for unemployment every summer, and you 
have to keep re-?ling for unemployment every two weeks. 
Some workers have to spend 
up the money they worked so 
hard to save during the year 
just to get by during the summers.
Davis clocks in 40 hours 
a week through his 7 p.m. 
to 3:30 a.m. shifts. After his 
shift ends at 3:30 a.m., Davis, 
whose primary form of transportation is the bus, waits 
around in the UC until 5:30 
a.m., when the buses start 
running, so that he can return 
home.
Whenever I get off work 
in the mornings, I sit downstairs and watch T.V. until 
5:30 when I can take the bus. I 
wont get back to my home until 6 a.m., which is about the 
time everyone else is waking 
up, Davis said.
Bus passes are $100 per 
month, but if I had more money, I would try to get a car, he 
added.
Right now, 32BJ SEIU is in 
talks with CulinArt to negotiate a new contract that could 
potentially offer its Carnegie 
Mellon employees better wages for the next four years. 
In the past, Carnegie Mellon and its previous food service company Parkhurst, were 
able to negotiate agreeable 
wages.
This year, through ?yers, 
CulinArt employees and 32BJ 
SEIU hope to raise awareness 
among students about increasing their wages.
Our goal is that we want 
people to understand that 
the folks who cook the meals 
and have these personal relationships with the students, 
theyre also real people who 
have real lives too, Schmidt 
said.
Theyre trying to keep up 
with the rising costs of everything that students have to 
deal with  the gas, the rent, 
groceries, bills, he added.
Support from students 
and the university is an effective thing. For the workers, it 
is helpful being able to know 
that the people who they work 
for actually appreciate what 
they do, Delaney said.
Senior economic and statistics major Bernard Yuan 
commented on the situation, 
lobbying for raising the wages 
of CulinArt employees. 
The backbone of your 
business is your workers, and 
if you cant satisfy your workers, you dont have a strong 
backbone, and youre not going to have a quality business, 
he said. 
 If the workers are not 
happy, I feel like management 
should do something about 
it because if the workers are 
satis?ed, they will ultimately 
be more ef?cient and deliver 
more quality service. So Id be 
okay if they raised the wages, 
Yuan continued. 
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 9, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 3
CMU professors help change street parking ratesStudents look to mentor locally
CulinArt employees lobby for higher wages 
FEATURE PHOTOPresident Suresh begins listening tour
Last year, Carnegie 
Mellon alumna Sarah 
Peko-Spicer and director of 
undergraduate economics 
Carol Goldburg began to pilot a new chapter of Moneythink, an organization that 
serves underprivileged high 
school students.
Carnegie Mellons student-run Moneythink chapter seeks to prepare innercity high school students for 
post-secondary education 
and ?nancial management.
The chapter will be accepting fall membership applications until Wednesday; 
membership is open to both 
undergraduate and graduate students.
Sophomore statistics 
and economics major Anusha Kukreja, sophomore 
statistics and economics 
major Jillian Ward, and 
sophomore international 
relations and politics major 
Satvika Neti will lead the 
chapter in fall 2013.
Once accepted candidates are noti?ed, mentors 
will travel to Pittsburgh 
schools once a week to provide in-class instruction. 
The chapter has already 
formed partnerships with 
Northside Urban Pathways 
Charter School and Westinghouse High School.
In the CMU chapter, we 
have over 200 students that 
have expressed interest.... 
Its amazing to see CMU 
becoming just as passionate about Moneythink as we 
are, Ward said.
The establishment of a 
Moneythink chapter presents the Carnegie Mellon 
community with an opportunity to become part 
of a fast-growing force for 
change.
Moneythinks mission 
has received nationwide 
recognition, and as a result, a number of nationally 
recognized organizations 
and corporations expressed 
interest in developing relationships with Moneythink 
members.
The national Moneythink team is working to 
establish employment pipelines for Moneythink mentors at corporations including J.P. Morgan and Chase.
These employment 
pipelines are set up via partnerships with the corporations as well as through 
alumni currently working 
Tepper building planned to occupy Morewood parking lot
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
CulinArt employees hold a meeting in Schatz Dining Room in the University Center to discuss ways to increase wages.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
President Subra Suresh conducted a listening tour this past week, 
including a stop for undergraduate students in the Hillman Centers 
Rashid Auditorium.
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Acting News Co-Editor
Recently, a group of Carnegie Mellon professors petitioned the Pittsburgh City 
Council to change parking 
rates along Margaret Morrison Street, Tech Street, Frew 
Street, and Schenley Drive.
The rate for parking on 
Schenley Drive and Margaret Morrison Street is now 50 
cents per hour, down from the 
previous $2 per hour. On Frew 
and Tech streets, the rate is 
now $2.25 per hour, a slight 
increase from the previous 
$2 per hour. The changes in 
parking rates will be accompanied by new signage that 
designates Margaret Morrison 
Street and Schenley Drive as 
Economy Parking and Tech 
Street and Frew Street as Premium Parking.
The project that led to the 
change in parking rates was 
headed by professor of economics Stephen Spear and 
associate professor of organizational behavior and theory 
Mark Fichman. According to 
Fichman, the change in parking rates is intended to facilitate the ideal parking usage 
for maximum revenue and 
convenience for students and 
professors alike.
It just seemed like things 
were not working right, and 
we thought we know how it 
could be done better, and the 
city council was supportive of 
this idea, Fichman said.
After parking rates on 
Margaret Morrison and other 
nearby streets increased last 
year, there was a surge in applications for on-campus parking, according to Fichman. 
This generated a long waitlist, 
while much of the street parking around campus remained 
largely empty.
Fichman considers the 
ideal utilization of the affected parking spaces to be 80 
See PARKING, A3
Annette KoArt Editor
The 
establishment 
of a 
Moneythink 
chapter 
presents the 
Carnegie 
Mellon 
community 
with an 
opportunity 
to become 
part of a fast 
growing force 
of change.
See TEPPER, A3See MONEYTHINK, A3
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 9, 2013
NEWS IN BRIEFActivities Fair hosted on CFA lawn
WEATHER
Underage Drinking/Noise 
Complaint
Aug. 30, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to a second-?oor 
room in Resnik House in response to a noise complaint. 
Of?cers identi?ed several 
students as underage and issued 12 underage drinking 
citations. Two citations were 
issued to the rooms tenants 
for furnishing minors with alcoholic beverages.
False ID Charge
Aug. 31, 2013
University Police along 
with CMU EMS responded 
to the second ?oor of Mudge 
House A Tower in reference to 
an intoxicated female. During 
the course of this call, of?cers 
recovered a fake ID. Alcohol 
Amnesty applies to this incident in reference to any alcohol offenses; however, the 
student was charged with carrying false identi?cation.
Robbery
Sept. 1, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
was robbed by a man on a bicycle near 128 N. Craig St. at 
approximately noon. The victims iPhone was stolen when 
a perpetrator, described as 
a black male in his 20s with 
dark shorts and black shirt, 
rode by, grabbed the cell 
phone, and continued on his 
bicycle out of sight on N. Craig 
Street. The Pittsburgh Bureau 
of Police is investigating this 
incident.
Underage Drinking
Sept. 2, 2013
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol observed a University of Pittsburgh student carrying two alcoholic beverage 
containers. When the student 
saw the police vehicle, he 
tossed the beverage containers into nearby shrubs. The 
of?cer identi?ed the male as 
being under the legal drinking age of 21 years old. The 
male was cited for underage 
drinking and released from 
the scene.
Art Supplies Theft
Sept. 3, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
contacted the University Police to ?le a theft report. The 
student stated that the lock 
on his assigned locker in the 
B300 corridor of Doherty Hall 
had been cut off. The victim 
had $250 in art supplies stolen 
from the locker between Aug. 
29, at 5:15 p.m., and Sept. 1, 
at 5 p.m. This investigation is 
ongoing.
Hit and Run Incident
Sept. 3, 2013
University Police responded to the parking lot behind 
1085 Morewood Ave. in the 
Greek Quad after a student 
reported her vehicle had been 
struck by another vehicle. 
University Police investigated 
the incident and determined 
that another Carnegie Mellon student had struck the 
victims parked vehicle with 
their own vehicle. University 
Police issued a citation for the 
hit and run offense.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
The Fall Activites Fair was held this Wednesday on the College of Fine Arts lawn. Carnegie Mellons many campus organizations set up tables and 
displays to attract new members and showcase the variety of extracurriculars avaiable. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Recently, Jonathan Cagan 
 the George Tallman and 
Florence Barrett professor of 
engineering and co-director 
of the Master of Product Development program  was 
appointed the director of innovation and entrepreneurship for the College of Engineering.
I am quite excited about 
leading new activities that 
bridge engineers to other 
disciplines on campus and 
to promote entrepreneurial and innovation activities 
and education, Cagan said 
in a university press release. 
Carnegie Mellon has a long 
history of innovation in research and strong success in 
commercialization of these 
successes. There is an opportunity within the College of 
Engineering to more explicitly teach students the skills 
necessary to succeed in product, technology, and service 
innovation, and the ability 
to develop new businesses 
around those innovations. I 
also look forward to exploring more synergies with our 
Silicon Valley campus, and 
leverage the Silicon Valley 
environment to promote new 
innovation potential.
Cagan has written four 
books about product development and holds several 
patents addressing computational design and products. 
Cagan is also a fellow of the 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers and has 
received numerous awards, 
including seven Best Paper 
awards and at premier engineering design research conferences, the 2007 College 
of Engineering Outstanding 
Teaching Award, the 2002 
Teare Teaching Award, and 
the 2000 Dowd Teaching Fellowship.
James H. Garrett Jr., dean 
of the College of Engineering 
and Thomas Lord professor 
of civil and environmental 
engineering, supports Cagans appointment and lauds 
his contributions to Carnegie 
Mellons growing entrepreneurial ecosystem.
In this new post, Jon will 
seek to bring greater visibility 
to all aspects of innovation 
and entrepreneurship in the 
college, Garrett said in a university press release.
Jonathan Cagan appointed director of innovation and entrepreneurship
We are pleased to recognize the outstanding 
research achievements of 
Doug James and Pat Hanrahan, said Randal E. Bryant, 
dean of the School of Computer Science. Although 
the two prize winners were 
selected independently, 
they both have made major 
contributions to the ?eld of 
computer graphics. Their 
work has yielded many bene?ts, ranging from more 
realistic animation for Hollywood movies to improved 
modeling and visualization 
of real-world systems and 
new approaches to high-performance computing.
James, an associate professor of computer science 
at Cornell and former assistant professor of computer science and robotics 
at Carnegie Mellon, will receive the Katayanagi Emerging Leadership Prize and a 
$5,000 honorarium, and will 
deliver a lecture at 4 p.m. 
this Thursday in the Gates 
Hillman Complexs Rashid 
Auditorium.
James is an Academy 
Award recipient and shared 
the 2012 Technical Achievement Award for his role in 
developing Wavelet Turbulence software, which generates realistic swirling smoke 
and ?ery explosive effects 
used in more than two dozen 
popular movies.
Hanrahan, the Canon 
USA professor of computer 
science and electrical engineering at Stanford University, will receive the Katayanagi Prize for Research 
Excellence and a $10,000 
honorarium, and will give a 
lecture at 4 p.m. on Sept. 26 
in Rashid Auditorium.
Hanrahan, in addition to 
Academy Awards and three 
university teaching awards, 
has received the Spirit of 
America Creativity Award, 
the SIGGRAPH Computer 
Graphics Achievement 
Award, the SIGGRAPH Stephen A. Coons Award, and 
the IEEE Visualization Career Award.
Both the winners are 
very active and innovative 
leaders in the ?eld of computer graphics, which has 
a big impact on our rapidly 
evolving modern society, 
said Hiroyuki Kameda, dean 
of the Tokyo University of 
Technology School of Computer Science. Their activities in both research and education are helping to make 
our daily lives more comfortable and more sustainable.
Approval of Senate BudgetUniversity Center Allocatons Board and Committee on Student Organizatons 
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
65 / 47
SATURDAY
High / Low
68 / 50
SUNDAY
High / Low
72 / 55
TUESDAY
High / Low
87 / 72
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
86 / 70
THURSDAY
High / Low
76 / 59
The Senate Finance Chair 
presented Senates budget for 
the 201314 academic year, 
which must be approved before Senate can distribute 
funds for special allocations 
or internal needs. After being delayed until this weeks 
meeting, Senate voted to pass 
the budget.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
After a presentation from 
Student Body Vice President 
of Organizations Corinne 
Rockoff, a ?fth-year psychology and decision science double major, the Senate initiated 
a vote to approve this years 
Committee on Student Organizations (CoSo) and University Center Allocations Board 
(UCAB). 
Rockoff also called for applicatons for both organizatons, as both are below the 
maximum member counts and 
UCAB is below its minimum, 
with only two members. Applicatons for UCAB and CoSO 
can be found on The Bridge. 
Senate also voted to approve the members of both organizations.
Ex Of?cio Report
Kevin Monahan spoke at 
this weeks Senate meeting. 
Monahan, who took up the role 
of associate dean for career and 
professional development at 
the beginning of this academic year, outlined his plan for 
improving Career and Professional Development Services 
and asked for student feedback 
and input.
Senators had the chance 
to ask questions; some points 
addressed the lack of support 
from Career and Professional 
Development Services for certain majors within the College 
of Fine Arts and the lack of 
opportunity students of some 
areas of study face at Carnegie 
Mellons many job fairs.
Finance
There was one special allocation this week for Sigma 
Phi Epsilons Labor Day Barbecue. Due to time shortages, 
however, the ?nance allocation was postponed until next 
week.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
CMU announces CS prize recipients
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI

---------------------------------------------------

in these companies. Kukreja said.
In addition, Moneythink 
recently established an 
alumni board, which has become a fast-growing internship resource for current 
mentors, and recently developed a partnership with 
Teach for America (TFA), 
according to Kukreja.
The TFA partnership 
means that we are working 
closely with TFA teachers 
on a national level to get 
into more classrooms. It also 
means that our mentors are 
a selective pool of individuals being recruited by TFA. 
TFA values our mentors and 
is very interested in having 
them apply, she said.
Other bene?ts for members include discounts at 
local businesses, as well as 
free or discounted packages 
for courses through organizations such as Kaplan and 
Wall Street Prep. Though a 
recent organization, Moneythink has already made 
lasting impacts. The organization was honored by 
President Obama in March 
as a campus champion of 
change, along with four 
other student organizations.
Kukreja, who attended 
the annual Moneythink 
Leadership Conference 
this summer, learned that 
through Moneythink courses, one student was able to 
use budgeting tactics to enable his family to keep the 
heat on through the winter, 
while another was able to 
save enough to buy his sister reading glasses so she 
could stop struggling to see 
the board and start keeping 
pace in her classes.
Though the organization 
has started by reaching out 
to high-need, low-income 
groups, it ultimately aims 
for a much larger scope.
In talking to others, 
weve found that no matter the background, most 
high school students are not 
well informed about how 
to make and manage their 
money, Kukreja said. Moneythinks mission is to make 
a ?nancial literacy course 
mandatory for high school 
graduation by 2030.
We have a vision for 
Moneythink here at CMU, 
and the best part of joining 
now is getting to shape that 
vision, and graduate CMU 
leaving a legacy of the chapter and the impact it has in 
our city, Ward said.
Moneythink members 
develop a curriculum and 
then travel to inner-city 
high schools once a week as 
mentors to teach the curriculum to students. 
The organization originated at the University of 
Chicago, and has chapters 
at 30 universities across 10 
states. In the spring of 2012, 
Family Services of Pennsylvania (FSWP) approached 
the Tepper School of Business to propose a partnership in creating a Moneythink chapter.
Following the FSWP visit, Goldburg attended the 
2012 Moneythink Leadership Conference and initiated collaboration between 
FSWP and Carnegie Mellon 
economics students. FWSP 
brought members into contact with Pittsburgh public 
schools, and Peko-Spicer began going into classrooms as 
a Moneythink mentor.
I loved the idea of giving 
back to the community [and 
I was] committed to founding the CMU Moneythink 
chapter, Peko-Spicer said.
We were all immensely 
excited upon hearing about 
the program, Kukreja said 
via email. Within a week, 
we were the three co-presidents of the CMU chapter, 
and its been an incredible 
journey, especially this summer, to see us work as a team 
to develop the chapter.
brief draft states the new 
Tepper building will be located 
near Hamburg Hall, in the area 
next to Forbes currently used 
as Morewood Gardens parking lot. The future building is 
envisioned as being part of the 
new generation of Carnegie 
Mellon, with other buildings 
also expected to be built in the 
area.
Felix and Brightspot envision, with the advice of students and faculty, a new building that showcases a pride in 
Tepper and its entrepreneurial 
initiatives.
It will be a game changer, 
Felix said. Another focus 
brought up during the town 
hall meeting was that the new 
Tepper should be inclusive of 
undergraduates. A complaint 
brought up by students was 
the divide between the undergraduate and graduate business cultures.
Students also mentioned 
how currently, Tepper students are forced to have classes 
and business club meetings in 
other buildings such as Wean 
Hall, because Posner does not 
have enough rooms to accommodate its business population. The hope is that we can 
accommodate many undergraduate business or economics classes, Felix said.
There are currently preliminary plans on the layout of the 
building. Felix stated it might 
be as high as eight stories, with 
a lobby and a public area on 
the ?rst ?oor. The ?oors would 
progressively get more private 
the higher they go, with the 
eighth ?oor containing faculty 
and Ph.D. work space. Its undecided if a corridor (similar 
to those in Wean Hall) or suite 
structure (similar to those in 
Warner Hall) will be used for 
faculty of?ce spaces. There 
are plans to incorporate various types of rooms, such as 
breakout rooms that have 
eight seats, Wi-Fi connection, 
and whiteboards on two walls; 
?at, ?exible classrooms with 
60 seats; and auditoriums 
with more modern seating 
arrangements.
The plan is to have two dining spaces, one possibly a coffee shop and the other a mealoriented area. There were 
other ideas tossed around, including having a library space, 
lounges for students, research 
centers, a ?tness area, a book 
store, study spaces, and even 
a space devoted to entrepreneurs; feedback is needed for 
many of the plans.
Hue Tran, a sophomore 
business administration major who attended the event, 
is enthusiastic about the new 
building. Well, I am most excited about the fact that there 
will be many more rooms designed for students to practice 
and brainstorm for various 
events like case competition 
and class presentation, Tran 
said. This will signi?cantly 
improve their performance 
since it is much easier for them 
to practice now. The extra 
space from the new building 
[would] also make students 
want to stay there longer, creating a stronger sense of Tepper community.
Sophomore economics major Jobert Sauray, thinks a new 
building is a good idea. Im 
planning on switching to Tepper, so it would be good, he 
said.
The planning for the new 
Tepper building is in a ?uid 
state, and Brightspot wants input from students and faculty. 
Over the next month or so, we 
will respond to the feedback, 
?nalize the design brief, and 
use that as a basis for picking 
out an architect, Felix said.
Comments and opinions on 
the plans to expand Tepper can 
be submitted at http://bit.ly/
newteppercomment.
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
An unprecdented number 
of students from the Carnegie Mellon Rwanda (CMU-R) 
campus have been successfully 
landing big corporate internships recently.
According to a university 
press release, 23 of the Rwanda campus students spent last 
summer interning at companies such as IBM, Visa, Microsoft, and Marriott. The Carnegie Mellon Rwanda website 
also shows that students were 
offered internships at companies such as MTN Group, 
Citrix, Husk Power Systems, 
and MFS Africa.
CMU-R welcomed its ?rst 
class of 40 students in 2012. 
The campus is offering a master of science degree in information technology, which according to the of?cial website 
is a multidisciplinary curriculum that strikes a ?ne balance 
between technology, business, 
and innovation, preparing the 
next generation of IT leaders 
in East Africa.
They will also begin offering a master of science in electrical and computer engineering that provides students 
with an opportunity for indepth specialization in aspects 
of the ?eld next year.
Michel Bzy, associate director of CMU-R and distinguished service professor of 
engineering and public policy, 
helped organize the internship 
efforts.
It wasnt easy, Bzy said. 
Theres no culture of internships in Africa.
Bzy went on to explain 
that companies generally 
dont pay anything or have a 
prepared program.... With our 
students, we want them to do 
a real job. Not only that we 
want them to be paid a serious salary, Bzy said, adding 
that some made $2,000 in a 
summer, which is greater than 
Rwandas per-capita GDP.
Kevin Rudahinduka is a student in the master of science in 
information technology program at CMU-R and recently 
completed an internship with 
Visa. Rudahinduka said in a 
university press release, Every 
CMU-R student should aspire 
to have an internship in a Fortune 500 company because it is 
the best, eye-opening, worldclass experience I have ever received, and it has inspired my 
dreams of tomorrow.
Bzy explained, for many 
of them it was their ?rst time 
out of Rwanda. For some, it 
was their ?rst time on an airplane.
The students were well 
received by their employers, 
with Bzy recalling that some 
of the students received offers 
for a job from the company 
they worked for.
Bruce Krogh, director of 
the CMU-R campus and professor of electrical and computer engineering added on 
to that idea. The students are 
remarkable in spirit, ambition, 
and doing what it takes to be in 
the program, Krogh said.
But running the Rwandan 
program is not easy.
Every day has had challenges on all sorts of fronts, 
Krogh said. The government of Rwanda is supporting Rwandan students. Our 
$40,000 tuition is obviously 
astronomical to African students. So its dif?cult to get 
non-Rwandan students.
The opening of a Carnegie 
Mellon campus in Rwanda 
generated some controversy 
when ?rst announced. Rwandan President Paul Kagame 
visited Carnegie Mellons Pittsburgh campus as part of the 
announcement, and was met 
with protests by students who 
objected to his administrations restrictions on the press.
Former University President Jared Cohon remarked at 
the time that Carnegie Mellon sees as part of its mission 
not only becoming a global 
university, but having global 
impact. Africa is a part of the 
world that really is in desperate need of higher education 
resources.
Our agreement [with the 
Rwandan government] says 
that were entirely in control 
of hiring, admissions, and academics, Krogh said. He added 
that Rwanda is a total outlier 
in Africa in terms of ?ghting 
corruption, saying, Even the 
critics agree that Rwanda says 
what its going to do.
Were very interested in 
letting students know they 
could come spend a semester 
in Kigali.... Kigali is just as safe 
as Pittsburgh, Krogh said.
Bzy spoke of the internship program, saying that it 
was very good for our visibility.... We are not here only to 
deliver masters degrees. We 
want to be integrated into the 
economic development of this 
region.
percent. 
Thats our goal. If it goes 
above 80, we raise the price 
to bring it back to 80; if it 
goes below 80 we lower the 
price until it gets back up to 
80.
Fichman cited SFpark, 
a project used to improve 
parking in San Francisco, as 
an inspiration for the plan 
to change parking rates at 
Carnegie Mellon. 
Fichman also credits assistant professor of operations research and public 
policy at Heinz College Robert Hampshire for the idea.
According to SFparks 
website, the project 
collect[s] and distribute[s] 
real-time information about 
where parking is available 
so drivers can quickly ?nd 
open spaces. To help achieve 
the right level of parking 
availability, SFpark periodically adjusts meter and garage pricing up and down 
to match demand. Demandresponsive pricing encourages drivers to park in underused areas and garages.
The rationalization behind the price adjustments 
at Carnegie Mellon was 
similar, Fichman said. On 
a monthly basis we use 
data from the city. The city 
parking authority gives us 
a ?le with 20 to 30 thousand parking occasions  so 
where you parked and for 
how long  and we use that 
data to determine whether 
the capacitys underutilized 
or overutilized and then 
send the parking authority a 
note saying wed like to keep 
parking prices the way they 
are, or wed like to change 
them in the following way. 
Then they make the changes, 
we see what happens, and so 
it continues.
If rates are too low, 
parking availability will be 
scarce, with low turnover 
throughout the business 
day. This creates a competition among commuters for 
parking spaces early in the 
day and presents real challenges throughout the day 
for individuals who need 
to park for an hour or two 
in order to attend a class, 
meeting or even make a delivery, said Spear in a university press release.
Rates that are too high 
will cause all drivers to 
avoid using these parking 
areas, which underutilizes a 
resource and ultimately lowers revenue.
Becca Wol?nger, a sophomore electrical and computer engineering major 
who likes to park on or near 
campus, echoed Spears sentiments. Its bene?cial to 
the school to have the parking spaces closer to campus 
lower in price; it makes it 
much easier for professors 
and students who live far 
from campus to get there 
and ?nd somewhere to 
park.
Fichman hopes that in 
the future Carnegie Mellon 
can adjust the parking rates 
for the parking garage and 
other parking lots on campus to re?ect utilization of 
nearby street parking.
According to Fichman, 
the project seems to be 
working so far. 
The parking authority is, I think, feeling pretty 
good about what weve 
done. I think from their 
point of view theyre getting 
more revenue, and were 
establishing the idea that 
parking pricing can be managed in a way that is bene?-
cial for everyone, she said.
Meter rates on campus changedPlans presented for new Tepper building
PARKING, from A1
TEPPER, from A1
New organization teaches ?nance
MONEYTHINK, from A1
Greg Hanneman/Senior Photographer
With the Tepper School of Business having outgrown its space in Posner Hall (left), current campus planning calls for a new building for the school on 
the site of the Morewood parking lot (right).
CMU Rwanda students ?nd internships
Rachel Cohen/Pillbox Editor
September 9, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 9, 2013
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
Imagine a future in which 
you could get in your car, enter your destination in a GPS, 
and sit back and relax as your 
vehicle transports you without 
so much as your ?nger on the 
wheel. Well, theres no need to 
imagine  that day is already 
here. A 15-member team at 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
consisting of faculty, full-time 
research staff, post-doctoral 
researchers, and graduate 
students worked with General 
Motors (GM) to develop an 
autonomous driving car that 
can navigate through the everyday traf?c of the roads of 
Pittsburgh just as well as  if 
not better than  any human 
driver.
Carnegie Mellon has been 
working in the ?eld of autonomous vehicles since 1986. Raj 
Rajkumar, a professor in the 
department of electrical and 
computer engineering and 
co-director of the General MotorsCarnegie  
Mellon Autonomous Driving Collaborative Research 
Lab, became involved in 
2006. There was a competition called the 2007 DARPA 
[Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency] Urban Challenge, Rajkumar said. The 
competition they had was basically making vehicles that 
can drive themselves in an 
urban-like setting through a 
60-mile course in less than six 
hours. 
On race day, only six teams 
successfully completed the 
course, with Carnegie Mellon 
in ?rst place for a $2 million 
prize. This competition made 
us realize that automated driving vehicles are no longer science ?ction, Rajkumar said.
GM was Carnegie Mellons biggest sponsor for the 
competition. After Carnegie 
Mellons ?rst-place win, GM 
decided to invest more in the 
project and started the General Motors-Carnegie Mellon 
Autonomous Driving Collaborative Research Lab on 
campus. The lab continued 
to work on the vehicle from 
the competition, which was a 
2007 Chevy Tahoe; this huge 
SUV was completely ?lled 
with electronics and looked 
nothing like an ordinary car. 
There were about 20 sensors 
all hanging around the car, 
and a huge cylinder on top, 
Rajkumar said.
However, in 2011 the 
group bought a Cadillac SRX, 
a crossover SUV, right from 
the dealers lot here in Pittsburgh. Rajkumar explained 
that the car was developed using three subsystems. The ?rst 
was the sensors: These are 
radars, cameras, and lasers, 
which basically sense what is 
around the vehicle in terms 
of obstacles, other vehicles, 
pedestrians, and bicyclists, 
Rajkumar said.
The second subsystem is 
made up of computers that 
grab this information from the 
sensors, process it, and fuse it 
all together. This is the component that determines the 
location of objects, the speed 
at which they are moving, and 
their direction.
The third subsystem is 
called the actuators, 
which basically applies the brakes, 
sends gas 
to the engine, shifts the transmission, puts on turn signals, 
and turns hazard lights on, he 
said. This new-and-improved 
automated vehicle looks like 
any car you would ?nd on the 
road, both on the exterior and 
the interior.
The main bene?t to a driverless vehicle  and one of 
the motivations for its invention  is that they can potentially decrease the amount 
of vehicular crashes, most of 
which are caused by human 
error. Humans are extremely 
smart but can be rather stupid 
as well, Rajkumar said in a 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette article. 
We can be distracted, angry, 
mad, sleepy, drunk, driving 
while eating, shaving, applying makeup, and even changing clothes. If we can take the 
basic human emotional and 
physical problems out of the 
equation, we expect injuries 
and fatalities will go down.
However, there are also 
some downsides to an automated driving car 
that the team is still  
working on improving. For example, the car lacks the intuition 
and experience that a human 
being would possess. When it 
brakes at stop signs or traf?c 
lights, the action seems abrupt 
when compared to the way 
a human driver would slow 
down gradually. 
The car is also unable to 
characterize the objects it sees 
the way a person would. The 
autonomous car has 360-degree coverage, and while humans cannot see past their 
peripheral vision, the autonomous car can only recognize 
an object as a person, and 
cant differentiate between a 
child or an older person. It can 
see signs, but it cannot necessarily read them all. There is 
also the  
 
 
 
possibility of sensors failing.
Nevertheless, the future of 
vehicles has changed with the 
success of Carnegie Mellons 
and GMs autonomous car. 
The technology [for commercially sold autonomous cars] 
will be ready by 2020, Rajkumar said. But then there is 
also social acceptance, regulations to put in place, insurance 
liabilities, and so on, which 
will take a bit longer.
Currently, the target price 
for such a car would be between $5,000$7,000 in addition to the cost of the car 
itself. So for $5,000$7,000, 
you would basically have your 
own chauffeur to drive you 
around! Rajkumar said.
Once a fantasy, self-driving cars are close to reality
Scientists rede?ne how the brain learns information
RAGHUNANDAN  AVULA
Staffwriter
At Carnegie Mellon, students often ?nd themselves 
spending long nights cramming for tests. Hours of staring at a book can lead to 
headaches and sometimes 
frustration as to why something just doesnt make sense. 
Clouded by this frustration, 
many students can sometimes 
forget the incredible ability of 
the human brain; it constantly 
rewires the massive network 
of nerves to ensure that by the 
test, the student has mastered 
the concept at hand.
Scientists have been intrigued by how the brain 
works for years, and with every day they understand more 
about what makes thinking, 
learning, and memory possible. Sandra J. Kuhlman, assistant professor of biological 
sciences at Carnegie Mellon, 
explored how inhibitory neurons in the brain function during critical periods of learning. 
Kuhlman collaborated with 
researchers at the University 
of California, Los Angeles and 
University of California, Irvine; their results were published in the journal Nature.
The neural network can be 
pictured as a massive system 
of roads, with thousands of 
delivery trucks carrying messages from one part of the 
brain to another. These networks are made up of neurons, 
nerve cells that transmit electric signals across the cell and 
release chemicals that generate electrical stimulation of 
neighboring cells. The propagation of these electric signals 
around the brain is vital to the 
brains function.
Roads are often connected at intersections governed 
by traf?c lights that control 
the movement of cars. In the 
brain, the neural network is 
constantly being modi?ed by 
excitatory neurons that act as 
green lights, allowing for the 
generation of electrical signals 
and thus the ?ow of information from one cell to another. 
Conversely, inhibitory neurons act as red lights, preventing the propagation of electrical signals. 
Kuhlman and her team 
wanted to observe the workings of inhibitory neurons 
during times of heightened 
learning by exposing mice to 
new events and stimulating a 
model for learning. However, 
80 percent of neuron cells 
are excitatory, which posed 
a challenge to the project. If 
youre just going blindly and 
observe cells, you are going 
to learn about excitatory cells 
because thats what you will 
bump into, Kuhlman said. 
Such ubiquity makes it dif?-
cult to learn about the speci?c 
neurons they were interested 
in.
However, the development 
of new technologies enabled 
the study to label different 
parts of the mouse brain using dyes. Kuhlmans team utilized this, along with powerful 
microscopes, to identify the 
inhibitory neurons and used 
electrodes to measure active 
electrical stimulations.
Prior to their experiment, 
the typical line of thinking was 
that inhibitory neurons release 
the chemical neurotransmitter gamma-Aminobutyric acid 
(GABA); it had been hypothesized that increased GABA enabled the brain to learn things 
quickly. The researchers, however, chose to investigate this 
theory.
After teaming with collaborators at UC Irvine, Kuhlman explained that the new 
ideas brought forth by the new 
members of the team questioned the theory about GABA, 
which propelled the team forward. After the experiments, 
the team learned that when a 
person has a new experience, 
inhibition is reduced and less 
GABA is produced. This leads 
to the remodeling of circuits in 
the brain.
Kuhlman found it interesting that this was only seen in 
young brains. Older brains can 
also learn but the inhibition 
is removed differently and is 
harder to invoke. The next 
step of her research may be to 
understand how the mechanism works in older brains.
The project challenged a 
paradigm and changed the way 
scientists understand the role 
of inhibitory neurons in these 
critical periods of learning.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Neurons, shown above, are cells in the brain that transmit chemical signals. 
Courtesy of Raj Rajkumar
The General Motors-Carnegie Mellon Autonomous Driving Collaborative Research Lab has recently produced a Cadillac SRX that has self-driving capabilities.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 11th
11 a.m.  2 p.m.
University Center, Rangos
Taste what Dining Services has to offer
Free samples, giveaways, music & more
www.cmu.edu/dining
TARTANS
Taste of the

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 9, 2013
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
At a school that requires 
students to spend many late 
nights working, its not uncommon to hear a phrase 
similar to, I am so addicted to 
caffeine! Its awful. According to U.S. News & World Report, caffeine is a daily ritual 
for roughly 90 percent of the 
American population. It is naturally found in chocolate, coffee, and tea, and is added to 
sodas, energy drinks, and certain diet pills and medications. 
Though we are accustomed to 
having caffeine in our daily diets, it is technically classi?ed 
as a psychoactive stimulant  
it alters the chemistry of the 
brain, and affects our bodies in 
more ways than we may know.
Once caffeine enters the 
body, it is absorbed by the 
small intestine and enters the 
bloodstream. Since it can dissolve in both water and fatbased substances, it can pass 
through the blood-brain barrier to enter the brain, according to howstuffworks.com. 
The brain naturally contains the chemical adenosine 
 which is responsible for 
making us feel tired  and 
norepinephrine, a stimulant. 
When unaffected by caffeine, 
the brain has a certain amount 
of receptors for each of these 
chemicals to bind to in order 
to maintain the bodys normal 
cycle of lethargy and alertness.
Caffeine alters the activity 
of these receptors, largely because of its close resemblance 
to adenosine. Once caffeine 
enters the brain, it is recognized by brain receptors as 
adenosine, and is able to bind 
to the adenosine receptors. 
Through this process, caffeine 
essentially stops adenosine 
from locking into the brains 
receptors and slows down 
nerve cell activity. In turn, the 
sudden increase in brain activity triggers the adrenal glands 
to produce more adrenaline. 
As a result, caffeine produces 
a feeling of alertness that 
usually lasts from four to six 
hours  until the caffeine 
is metabolized. After longterm exposure to caffeine, the 
brain increases production 
of adenosine, and decreases 
production of the stimulant 
norepinephrine to maintain 
equilibrium with the caffeine 
intake. Caffeines ability to 
alter the brains chemical production is the root cause of 
both its adverse and bene?cial 
effects on the body.
Because caffeine blocks adenosine from binding to receptors and slowing down nerve 
activity, it hinders the body 
from going into deep sleep, according to Smithsonian Magazine. Long-term use causes a 
cycle of sleep deprivation. The 
lack of deep sleep, combined 
with decreased production of 
norepinephrine, causes the 
body to become increasingly 
dependent on caffeine to remain alert. Therefore, regular caffeine consumers begin 
to experience withdrawal 
symptoms after 1224 hours 
without consumption. Common withdrawal symptoms 
include fatigue, headache, dif?culty focusing, and depression. Though consuming two 
to four cups of caffeine per day 
is generally considered harmless, research has shown that 
people are likely to build up 
a tolerance for caffeine after 
two weeks to one month of 
consuming it regularly. Fortunately, in most cases, caffeine 
addiction is not dif?cult to 
overcome. After seven to 12 
days without caffeine intake, 
the brains production of adenosine and norepinephrine 
return to their base levels.
The effects of caffeine 
are not entirely detrimental. 
Because caffeine blocks adenosine from binding to its 
receptors, it reduces the risk 
of developing Parkinsons disease and is currently being 
researched as a treatment option. 
In addition, caffeine naturally contains antioxidants 
and can therefore reduce the 
risk of contracting diseases 
such as liver cancer, colon cancer, and diabetes. It can also 
treat migraines by constricting 
the brains blood vessels. Aside 
from medical bene?ts, certain 
studies show that adults consuming the equivalent of caffeine in one cup of coffee were 
better able to perform problem solving tasks. 
HOW THINGS WORK
CMUs drug of choice: How caffeine affects the brain
ROHAN VARMA
Junior Staffwriter
Imagine youre sick. What 
if your doctor told you that 
the only way to cure your sickness was by injecting you with 
millions of viruses? This treatment could be a reality in the 
next decade, with the growing re-emergence of bacteriophage research and medical 
therapy.
Named from the Latin root 
phage, which means to 
eat, bacteriophages  also 
called phages  are viruses 
that systematically infect and 
kill bacteria. While they were 
discovered and used to treat 
previously incurable infections in the20s and 30s, they 
were abandoned as a remedy 
after the discovery of antibiotics in the 40s. However, with 
increasingly pervasive antibiotic-resistant bacteria, doctors throughout the world are 
reviving old bacteriophage 
practices.
Each phage targets a speci?c strand of bacteria to use 
as a host. After identifying 
an accommodating host, the 
phage injects its genetic material into the bacterial cell, 
hijacks the machinery of the 
cell, and converts it into a 
phage production factory. In 
this way, the phage helps itself by reproducing and helps 
humans by eliminating the 
targeted bacteria.
With the emerging ?eld, 
faculty at Carnegie Mellon 
partnered with the Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute to 
offer the Phage Genomics Research course to undergraduate ?rst-years from the Mellon 
College of Science. With the 
overarching vision of learning 
more about bacteriophages, 
the Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute is working with almost 90 other universities to 
put on this course.
The course exposes students to research by sending 
them on a phage hunt. Students have the opportunity to 
?nd their own unique phage, 
sequence its genetic material, 
name it anything they would 
like, and publish their phage 
to a growing database of bacteriophage species. Because 
phages exist everywhere in 
the world, students collect 
a sample of soil from their 
hometown and bring it with 
them to Carnegie Mellon. After isolating the phage from 
the soil through experimental techniques, students use 
computational methods to 
sequence its genetic material.
We are the only institution, of the 87 schools that offer this program, that has our 
students sequence the DNA 
of the phages, said Maggie 
Braun, one of the courses 
teachers and Carnegie Mellons assistant head for undergraduate affairs at the Mellon 
College of Science.
After naming and publishing their results, the students 
have an opportunity to partake in a group project where 
they can explore and research 
any aspect of the phage they 
wish.
The biggest thing that 
I see students get out of the 
course is making connections 
between what they heard 
about in their classes and actually putting those things to 
use in a lab, Braun said.
The research course goes 
beyond introducing students 
to lab work. Phage research 
has enormous potential in 
the ?eld of medicine. Jennifer Huang, a ?rst-year biology major currently taking 
the course, said, The phage 
course is very exciting because it exposes us to research 
in an emerging ?eld that has 
intriguing questions yet to be 
answered.
There are hundreds of 
thousands of phage species 
still to be found, and every 
additional phage adds to the 
growing body of research. According to Braun, every student that takes the class has 
discovered their own unique 
phage.
Though each students 
work might seem insigni?cant 
on the grand scale, people 
one day might be treated and 
cured by a phage analyzed by 
a student at Carnegie Mellon.
Phage course provides ?rst-years with hands-on research
Dolphins and bats may have similar gene evolution
Scientists have recently 
discovered a set of genes in 
bottlenose dolphins and some 
bats that may contribute to 
their shared ability of echolocation. The study was led 
by evolutionary geneticist 
Joe Parker from Queen Mary 
University of London. The 
researchers analyzed the genomes of 22 mammals, which 
included animals that could 
and could not echolocate. A 
computer then analyzed the 
genomes and compared the 
mutations that contribute to 
echolocation. The results indicated that almost 200 genetic regions across the species had evolved together.
However, some colleagues 
question the results. The 
authors are not really being 
cognizant of the limitations 
of their methods, said David 
Pollock of the University of 
Colorado School of Medicine.
Source: Science News 
Video game shown to sharpen brains in older people
A report published in the 
journal Nature shows that 
playing the racing video 
game NeuroRacer improves 
the mental acuity of elderly 
participants. The study was 
led by Adam Gazzaley of the 
University of California, San 
Francisco.
The game has participants 
drive a car along a narrow 
and winding path. Throughout the game, distracting 
signs pop up on the screen. 
Older patients were initially 
much worse at the game than 
their younger counterparts. 
However, after playing for 
12 hours over the course of a 
month they were able to beat 
20-year-olds playing it for the 
?rst time. Laboratory tests revealed that the older participants also had an increased 
working memory and attention span.
Source: Science News
Researchers give access to quantum computing
Users will soon be able to 
access quantum computing 
using their own computers. 
Those interested in running 
quantum algorithms on their 
own devices will be able to log 
in and access a two-qubit chip 
that is connected to the Internet. Quantum computers run 
on qubits, which differ from 
typical bits in that they can be 
zero and one simultaneously, 
rather than sequentially. Researchers theorize that qubits will allow for much faster 
computation. The qubit chip 
is being provided by the University of Bristol in the United 
Kingdom.
Quantum computers have 
previously only been available to a select few academics and laboratories such as 
NASA. Researchers from Bristol stressed the need for increased public access to quantum computing.
Source: New Scientist
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZER
SCITECH BRIEFS
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Students in the phage genomics course have the opportunity to sequence the genomes of a bacteriophage, 
shown above. The phages DNA is made up of a long string of base pairs, represented as A,T,C, and G.  
Write for SciTechscitech@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

HIGH HONORS
Faiz AbbasiKamal AbdulrazaqAnna AlbiSarah AmickJenna AsperslagRaphael AstrowMarie AvilezSeungyeon BaikSpencer BaughHalley BayerTaylor BeisellJessica BenensonLaura BerryVladislav BouchouevZachary Branson
Marisa Breitfeller
Emma Bright
Stephanie Brown
Haley Bryant
Benjamin Burgess
Paul Carboni
Laura Caton
Jason Chen
Joanna Chen
Sherry Chen
Stephanie Cheung
Hoon Choi
Kelsey Choing
Jonathan Chung
Ashlyn Clark
Arielle Cohen
Christophe Combemale
Anthony Corletti
Lindsay Corry
Allison Cosby
Stephen Crawford
Nicole Crimi
John Cusick
Kristina Dacosta
Stefan Dasbach
Sarah Deiuliis
David Demerson
Wyatt DEmilia
John Devine
Kristin Dlesk
Ryan Donegan
Lara Dorko
Tatiana Duchak
Micaela Dudley
Colleen Eagan
Rachel Edelman
Emily Etzel
Hannah Evans
Mostafa Fahmy
Jaime Fawcett
Tamar Feigenbaum
Matthew Finlay
Rosa Floreak
Caroline Flowers
Inez FoongRonald FudalaSana GhaziZora GilbertMadelyn GlymourMax GoetschelElana GoldbergJason HaNathan HahnWesley HallLucy HavensChloe HawkerAmber HeklerMarcy HeldAlexandria HernandezJoshua HixsonJinsub HongSung Jin HongMaksim HorowitzTsz Chung HungTahsin IslamAlexander JamesRachel JueHeather Jue-Wong
Kyongche Kang
Michael Kashaf
Braden Kelner
Do Sung Kim
Jae-Won Kim
Yong Hwan Kim
Stanley Krasner
Ivy Krislov
Rachel Kuhn
Hannah Kumar
Daniel Kusbit
Ryan Kwok
Sara Ladley
Nicholas Lam
Samantha Landen
Emily Larosa
Meghan LeachJoheun LeeJonghwan LeeLek Heng LeeDominic LeoneBonita LeungMaggie LiWeikun LiangJiunn Haur LimAngela LiuBryn Loe  erCaitlin LohmanOlivia LondonVanessa LopezYi LowIlan MachAngela McCarthy
Amira Millette
Michael Mingo
William Misitano
Richa Mohan
David Moss
Rubini Naidu
Daniel Nesbit
Angela Ng
Allison Ngo
Kaytie Nielsen
Tennley Noble
Nathan Oh
Sayre Olson
Mei Huey Ong
Ahmed Osman
Jae Young Park
Senna Parsa
Gabriela Pascuzzi
Rupa Patel
Martha Paterson
Julia Pattison-Gordon
Sarabeth Perry
Jessica Phoa
Ariel Polako 
Emily Pond
Alicia Pottmeyer
Carson Quiros
Chanamon Ratanalert
Savina Reid
Corinne Rocko 
Stephen Rosnick
Jaclyn Ross
Gabriella Rueda
Eunhyun Ryu
Vivek Sainanee
David Sandor
Rintaro Sato
Marielle Saums
Kevin Schaefer
Arley Schenker
Kristina Schi  auer
Graham Schilling
Emily Schlossman
Isaac Shamie
Katarina Shaw
Dipika ShrihariSiddarth SivakumarNatalie SmithElizabeth SnyderWon Woo SohnZachary StahlCatherine StephensonStephanie SternEve Sto elJordan SucherAndrew SungMadeline SverdloveJoshua SwansonChristopher  amKatherine  omasEstelle TianBrian TrimboliChu Ying TsaiJennifer TuttleNoel UmAnna Vande Velde omas VielottKayla Walker
Samuel Walters
Steven Wang
Yusuo Wang
Rebecca Warshofsky
Logan Watanabe
Shayna Weiss-Perea
Samantha Wilson
Marisa Wiltsie
Von Wise
Ema Woodward
Ming Yan Wu
Christopher Wysocki
Jasmine Xie
Zhongyuan Ying
Catharine Youngs
Ronald Yurko
HONORS
Whitney Aaronson* Hawra Abdulla* Stephanie Abi Gerges* Ammar Abouelghar*Haris Aghadi*Shamma Al-Hetmi*Haya Al-Khalifa*Noora Al-Maslamani*Maryam Al-Mohanadi*Dana Al-Mu ah*Sara Al-Mulla*Ghaya Al-SulaitiHyeram AhnTristan AmondSwathi Anand
Zachary Anderson
*Nur Aysha Anggraini
*Ernest Appiah
Elisabeth Arndt
Preeti Badve
Sujaya Balachandran
Jacqueline Barnes
Sophie Batton
Michael Joseph Bautista
*Nawal Behih
Mary Behnke
Dina Berdichevsky
Zachary Betka
Pralav Prashant Bhansali
Jenna Blake
Jonathan Blake
Katherine Blakely
Austin Bohn
Michael Bove
Matthew Briselli
Rachel Bullen
Noelle Byrd
Avery Calkins
*Srinjoy Chakravarty
Sheila Chan
Joshua Chang
Bradley Charna
Shannon Chen
Stephanie Chen
*Daniel A.R. Cheweiky
Jia Chin
Kevin Chiu
Sung Bum Cho
Jason Choi
Emily Clark
Joshua Claudio
Rachel Cohen
James Colmar
Christopher Compendio
Julia Constantine
Shane Copelin
Dylan Corwin
Rachel Crown
*Ola Daher
Samantha DickinsonAlexander DinardoChi Chi Do-NguyenAnna DonohoePatrick DustmannRobert EckelsJulien EckstromNathaniel Eliason*Farah ElsakkaSara Faradji*Nihal Fathima*Flavio FenleyDaniel FergusonKerry FiltzEvan FinkelsteinJoseph FrickNancy Geronian*Zuhair GhalibAditya GoyalChristina GrahamJordyn GreenbergNicholas GuestoShivranjani GuptaSeung-Hoon Han
Joshua Harvey
*Aliya Hashim
*Ahmed Hashmi
*Afrah Hassan
Brent Heard
Aurelia Henderson
Christa Hester
Ruth Hiatt
Charlotte Himeles
Jennifer Hirsch
Sarah Hodgson
Stacey Hsi
Rebecca Jacobs
*Tasneem Jahan
Anika Yeji Jung
*Sama Kanbour
Lisa KesslerAnita KimChristine KimEunsol KimIrene KimJae-Eun KimJin Seok KimJulie KimKaylyn KimLisa KimWon Seong KimWoongki KimYe Ji KimEliot KnudsenJocelyn KongMargaret KowalskiElizabeth Kramer
Robert Kudler
Nikhil Kumar
Yuvraj Kumar
Jacob Kushner
Terence Kwak
Cindy Lai
Taeyeon Lew
Michelle Lin
Christopher Lindsay
Elizabeth Lorenzi
Eric Mackiewicz
Guillermo Marce
Nina Mast
Alvin Mathew
Justin McGown
Allison McGugan
Duncan McIsaac
Shifa Merchant
Maureen Meyer
Christina Mitas
Robert Mohen
Dana Molt
Olivia Mora
Aubrey Moraif
Ava Murphey
Alexander Murray-Watters*Sarah Mustafa
*Ali Naqi
Benjamin Nealy
Phoebe Ng
*Noshin Nisa
Adetunji Olojede
Ryan Ott
Christine Pak
Joseph Pane
Hae Jin Park
Roy Park
Song Park
Yeon Soo Park
Emily Peel
Sarah Peko-Spicer
Natalie Peracchio
Julia Petrich
Peter Podniesinski
*Muhammad Polin
Taylor PoulosCharles PrimbasHayley RahlBharath RajaramHarsha RaoSri RaoRachel Ratzla  ShriverAngelique ReinChristian ReyesJae Ho RheeJoseph RobertsonEnrica RosatoAdhip SachetiPeter SadoskyBarnik Saha*Juan SamMarissa SavinoLaura ScherbMaya SchumerSoham SenguptaMichael SetzerSoniya Shah*Omar Shamiyeh
Molly Shanley
Vira Shao
Joo Hwan Shin
Daniel Shlyuger
Ashley Sobhani
Leonard Sokol
Christopher Sparks
Megan Steinmetz
Jordan Stephenson
Adria Steuer
Sonya Subramaniam
Jichao Sun
Angelina Sung
Kristine Swarts
*Abdulrahman Takiddin
Marco Talabacu
Kevin Alastair Tan*Humaira TasnimAayush TekriwalNicholas  iemeCatherine  orntonLinda TimkoJaime TrujilloLisa TuKavita VaradarajanGabriel Vegh-GaynorMatthew VelaKyla VickAbigail VolynskySamantha WalkerAnna WalshJillian WardSkylar Weaver
Nancy Wei
Carrie Weintraub
Allison Wilson
Hannah Wirt
Sophie Wirt
Jaclyn Wolf
Justin Wong
Timothy Wood
Hannah Worrall
Bingying Xia
Lydia Yi
Yerin Yi
Stephanie Yim
Sung Jun Yoon
Catherine Yu
Deahan Yu
Jonathan Yu
Amanda Yuan
David Yun
Je rey Zayas
Siyan Zhao
Quan Zhou
Olga Zubashko
* Information Systems 
Program Qatar
BACHELOR OF HUMANITIESAND ARTS
Harrison AppleRachel Asbel Asya BorahanCharles BurlinghamHanbbit Chang Molly CookLaura ConteroRene CuencaRosalyn DentonAlex DeRondeEmily FaberRachel FranzSarah GaoDaniel GatenioEmily GibsonJillian GoodwynKayla HeglasCole HeinerAlexander LeeKatherine LeeTalia LevinJoshua LevitinMelody LuNicolas MarltonMargaret MartinezEmma OlsenAlexandra OssowskiLaura PaikDanae PaparisCatherine PaquetteJuddson PoeskeSejal PopatTyler PortenTaylor PrestonSarah ReadGina SmithIsabel Smith-BernsteinHyo Seul Grace SohnAndrew StaigerJulia SwearerSamantha WardEliana WeinerMinnar Xie
Yu Zhao
SCIENCE AND HUMANITIES SCHOLARS
HIGH HONORS
Su BaykalAbigail BurtonEric ChandlerRebecca ChenErnest Kin Hoe ChiewChristophe CombemaleYidan CongDaniel DavisZachary DellEmily FeenstraEmily Furnish
Naomi Gunawardena
Kelsey Hallinen
Chelsea Hulse
Erin Kiekhaefer
Gi Hyun Kim
Justine Kim
Leslie Kim
Kathleen Kupiec
Lazar Lalone
Jessica Laubach
Hannah Loo
Amritha Mallikarjun
Michael Matty
Alexandra McCluskey
Kathryn McKeough
Danielle McKinney
Jeremy Meza
Purumeh Nam
Lauren ONeil
Caitlin Selvaggi
Yoona Seon
Kelly Shibuya
Christopher Sickler
Anthony Spadaro
Wan Xin Teo
Jennifer  arp
Lanya Tseng
Rachel Walsh
Chen Wu
Fan Yang
Fan Yang
Sophie Zucker
HONORS
Riddhima Agarwal
Stephanie Blotner
Andersen Chang
Vivian Chang
Helen Chao
Madeleine Clute
Charlotte DarbyJohn FooNathaniel FruchterLinus HamiltonYao KangSneha KannothJe rey KurishSean LeibowitzBrendan MacNabbAdil MajidKeisuke OsumiVictoria PereiraRishi SonthaliaNicholas TakakiLeslie TayDavid Zimmerman
Nicolas Zuniga-Penaranda 
Deans List Spring 2013
On behalf of the faculty and sta  of the Marianna 
Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, we congratulate the DC, SHS, and BHA 
undergraduates listed below for earning a place on the 
Spring 2013 Dietrich College Deans List.
                      Dietrich College Deans O  ce

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN *
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Acting News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Francesca Begos, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Blaine Greenberg,  Satvika 
Neti, Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern
ADVERTISING
Gretchen Tan
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 9, 2013
After a summer of public debate 
and discussion, Pennsylvania legislators have again failed to privatize 
liquor stores.
Liquor sales in Pennsylvania are 
governed by the Pennsylvania Liquor 
Control Board (PLCB), a prohibitionera government agency that grants, 
renews, and validates all liquor licenses in the state. In a USA Today 
column, Matthew Brouillette, founder of the Commonwealth Foundation, recalled a remark by former 
Pennsylvania Governor Gifford 
Pinchot after the PLCBs creation in 
1933. Pinchot stated that the purpose of the PLCB is to discourage 
the purchase of alcoholic beverages 
by making it as inconvenient and expensive as possible.
Such tight control of Pennsylvanias alcohol market is no longer 
necessary. Pennsylvania and Utah 
are the only two remaining states 
that maintain full state control over 
liquor sales and distribution. It is for 
this reason that alcohol is conspicuously missing from convenience 
stores, and there is an extremely rare 
and limited sale of beer and wine in 
grocery stores or other stores not certi?ed by the PLCB.
This summer saw a resurgence of 
the movement to end state control 
of alcohol, with legislators debating 
the issue and submitting privatization proposals, according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
A recent editorial in the PostGazette, stated that 61 percent of 
Pennsylvanians support the measure 
to privatize liquor; however, by the 
conclusion of the summer legislative 
session, legislators did not pass any 
bill on the matter.
Liquor privatization would allow 
a greater number of liquor stores, 
expanded hours of alcohol sales, and 
cheaper prices  all due to greater 
competition. Increased competition 
would most likely expand the liquor 
sector, lead to more jobs, and produce greater tax revenue. Additionally, it would give people the option 
to buy beer, wine, and hard liquors 
in the same stores; right now, people 
do not have this option since beer 
distributors are licensed separately.
It is time for Pennsylvania to join 
the majority of America in allowing 
liquor stores to function in an unconstrained free market. It is only 
through this option that people will 
see greater selections, longer hours, 
and lower prices for alcohol. Pennsylvania politicians may not have 
passed legislation regarding privatization this summer, but Lehigh 
Valley local newspaper The Morning 
Call mentioned that this issue may 
be debated in the fall. Lets hope our 
legislators make the right decision.
Legislators would be wise to privatize sale of alcohol
John Hannon, associate dean of 
student affairs, recently emailed students not in university housing information about living off campus. The 
information encompasses appropriate off-campus conduct, police presence, student-neighbor relations, 
landlords, over-occupancy, garbage, 
and parking. 
The email provides information 
often overlooked or forgotten and is 
a welcome resource for students; it 
is a positive sign from the university 
that it encourages a safe community 
for not only students living on campus, but for upperclassmen living off 
campus as well. However, the email 
could have been organized more effectively to interest students in the 
information.
While some information in the 
email may be obvious, such as the increased presence of police in nearby 
neighborhoods, other bits of information could easily be unknown. 
For example, the email describes 
that city zoning codes require that 
no more than three unrelated people live in a single-family residence. 
Landlords may overlook this rule, 
but the rule can later be enforced to 
evict students if police ?nd that they 
have violated the zoning codes. The 
email gives students the opportunity 
to comply with the code and other 
city laws, such as parking laws, if 
they do not currently.
The university should be recognized for reaching out to its students 
to provide them with information 
that can ease the transition to living off campus. This compilation of 
city information is a useful resource 
that can be referenced as needed 
throughout the year.
Unfortunately, this helfpful information was buried in block after block of poorly formatted and 
hard-to-read text, and this information should be placed on a university resources page for off-campus 
students. A more inviting email or 
website may encourage students to 
read this generally useful information. The attempt by the university 
to reach out to students living off 
campus is appreciated, but that attempt to reach out must be more visible, rather than hidden in a lengthy 
email.
Email contains welcome but disorganized information
CHLOE THOMPSON
President Barack Obama is seeking Congressional approval of a military attack on Syria after the Syrian 
government launched a sarin gas 
attack in late August, according to 
Reuters. The chemical attack killed 
over 1,400 people, many of them 
civilians. The United States long 
history of involving itself in foreign 
affairs necessitates a response to 
the attack. The U.S. should involve 
itself in the Syrian con?ict, but not 
through military force.
The American population is not at 
all convinced that a military attack is 
the solution to the Syrian issue, with 
only 36 percent of Americans in favor of such action, according to a recent Gallup Poll. The editorial board 
of The Seattle Times argues that the 
situation is both uncontrollable and 
unpredictable, and ultimately not 
the responsibility of Americans, who 
are tired of being at war despite the 
recent atrocities that the Syrian government has committed.
However, the Syrian governments actions are unconscionable, 
and must be addressed. The recent 
chemical attacks are only part of the 
violent situation that Syria has faced 
during its current civil war, which 
has been going on for nearly 30 
months. Two million refugees have 
been displaced to surrounding nations while 4.2 million people have 
been displaced internally  over 
half of whom are children, according to Human Rights Watch. The 
displacement of Syrian citizens is 
not the only problem spilling into 
surrounding nations: The instability 
of the country could easily spread 
throughout the region, according 
to Freedom House, which cited Turkey recently engaging Syrian forces 
across the border and Israel bombing a convoy on the outskirts of 
Damascus.
But what can be done about this 
situation, given the American publics reluctance to commit military 
resources? Thankfully, intervention can come in forms other than 
bombs, and many organizations 
have suggestions as to how to aid 
Syria without direct military action. 
Human Rights Watch advises that 
the G-20, a forum for international 
cooperation on important global issues, make a priority of aiding refugees and stopping the ?ow of arms 
into the region. One of Syrias biggest weapons suppliers is Russia, 
which is a member of the G-20. The 
G-20 can pressure Russia and Syrias 
surrounding nations to stop dealing through trade sanctions speci?-
cally targeting arms deals. Freedom 
House suggests that the U.S. provide ?nancial support to Syrian civil 
rights groups, in order to aid the 
development of democratic institutions. With this support, Syria could 
move toward stabilizing itself.
Of course, many call for justice, 
as well as aid. Sixty-four countries 
have urged the United Nations Security Council to refer Syria to the International Criminal Court, according to the Human Rights Watch.
The refugees are of great concern 
at this time, as they are among the 
people most damaged by the Syrian con?ict. Aiding them and the 
countries that support them without 
resorting to military attacks could 
ease some of the regions tension. 
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
U.S. must deal with Syria
SATVIKA NETI
After the publication of Stephenie 
Meyers Twilight series, young adult 
literature once again became a viable genre. New fantasy ?ction became popular, one of these series 
being The Mortal Instruments, written by Cassandra Clare. Its an elaborate series with incredible fantasy 
elements and ?eshed-out characters 
that has gripped millions of readers.
Too bad the series is allegedly 
plagiarized. Clare started writing 
under the moniker Cassandra Clare 
in a Harry Potter fan base. She was 
popular in those circles because of 
her fan ?ction, The Draco Trilogy, 
which paired Draco and Ginny from 
Harry Potter  a moody bad boy 
paired with a feisty redhead. Do the 
characters sound familiar to those 
from The Mortal Instruments?
Of course, this similarity isnt inherently bad. Basing a story off of 
characters that have already been 
written about is not a crime. It traverses into gray areas, though, when 
an authors characters are based off 
of interpretations of another authors characters that have already 
been used in another franchise.
It gets worse. One day, Harry 
Potter fans awoke to ?nd Clares 
story removed from the Internet. 
Slowly, the news got around: Huge 
chunks of her story had been  copied and pasted from other works 
that werent even Harry Potter. The 
characters were hers, but the witty, 
snappy writing that her readers fell 
in love with was not her own.
Fan ?ction is a gray area for copyright anyway, because the source 
text is someone elses work. Some 
authors have spoken out against fan 
?ction based on their works, but J.K. 
Rowling is not one of those authors. 
She has made it clear, though, that 
she doesnt want money being made 
from Harry Potter fan ?ction. And 
while what Clare did with The Draco 
Trilogy was wrong, she wasnt making money off of the Harry Potter 
series or the other books she had allegedly plagiarized from  until she 
published The Mortal Instruments.
When her ?rst book, City of Bones 
came out, Clares fan ?ction readers were excited, until they actually 
started reading the book and experienced dj vu. The protagonist Clary 
was Clares interpretation of Ginny 
in The Draco Trilogy; Jace was her 
Draco interpretation; Luke was her 
idea of Lupin and some of the writing seemed lifted off of the pages of 
her fan ?ction, most of which she 
had allegedly plagiarized from other 
sources. Now she is making money 
from a series based off of fan ?ction that was based not only off of 
Harry Potter but of other source material she liberally borrowed from.
With a movie now out, this woman keeps making money with recycled writing and characters that are 
not even hers, and she wont listen 
to anyone against her. Authors who 
plagiarize do not deserve the pro?ts 
and acclaim that Clare has received, 
and de?nitely not the promotion of 
her work in the form of a major motion picture.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
City of Bones is plagiarism
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Sesame Streets focus on STEM elements admirable
The perennial childrens educational TV show Sesame Street has a 
special place in the hearts of many 
Americans. The show and its worldwide counterparts have taught children the fundamentals of learning 
and life lessons since 1969.
Recently, the program that is 
home to Big Bird, Elmo, and Cookie 
Monster expanded its curriculum to 
develop a stronger focus on the science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics (STEM) ?elds. 
According to The New York Times, 
the program is putting more of 
an emphasis on urging children 
to investigate, as opposed to simply explore. Teaching this kind 
of analytical thinking  even at 
a very early age  is crucial, and 
Sesame Street should be applauded 
for expanding the shows content to 
include STEM topics.
According to Forbes magazine, the 
science and engineering workforce 
is responsible for over 50 percent of 
the nations sustained economic expansion; however, only 5 percent of 
the overall workforce is employed in 
these ?elds. This disparity between 
expansion and job demand occurs at 
a time when the educational leaders 
of the U.S. are decrying an innovation de?cit.
Only 17 percent of high school 
seniors are both interested in pursuing higher education in STEM and 
quali?ed or skilled enough to do so, 
according to The Washington Post. 
Thus, its imperative that children 
not only receive a STEM education 
at an early age, but also develop a 
strong interest in science and analytical thinking.
The success of Carnegie Mellon 
and other STEM-focused institutions 
is dependent on a steady source of 
inquisitive and intelligent students 
and faculty. STEM is shaping so 
much of the job market that leaving 
it out of a childs education would be 
equivalent to preparing them for a 
world very different from ours today. 
Programs like Sesame Street 
deserve the recognition for being pioneers in developing such 
an accessible STEM curriculum for 
young children, and hopefully the 
countrys own public education system follows suit.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is still settling into classes this week. So we asked,
What is your favorite class so far?
Compiled by Kate Groschner
September 9, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
BRADEN KELNER
Former New York City police 
commissioner and Los Angeles police chief Bill Bratton aims to launch 
a social network for police of?cers 
called BlueLine at the International 
Association of Police Chiefss annual 
conference in October, according to 
the Associated Press. Bratton hopes 
the network will connect the nations 
police and allow them to more easily 
combat gangs and terrorists, as well 
as share their best practices.
While Brattons intentions for a 
social network are innovative for 
preventing crime in theory, it must 
be asked if the site is a necessary or 
useful addition to the arsenal of tools 
already at police disposal.
Although Brattons attempt to 
introduce a social platform for a respected group of professionals is admirable, there may be more effective 
ways to connect of?cers privately. It 
is understandable that with the popularity of social media sites, Bratton 
wanted to jump on the bandwagon, 
but these sites may not be appropriate in a professional context. Other 
professional social networks like 
LinkedIn are open to the public, 
and pro?les are under scrutiny by 
other professionals. In a private setting, law enforcement of?cers may 
be more likely to share personal or 
sensitive information that could be 
released to the public by another 
individual using the site. Perhaps it 
would be more appropriate for of?-
cers who have sensitive jobs to use a 
traditional intranet website that does 
not emulate Facebook pro?les.
Bratton hopes that BlueLine will 
solve the lack of communication between of?cers, but the small potential user base for the site may prevent 
increased talk. 
Through platforms like Twitter 
and Facebook, the world has seen 
that social networks can strengthen 
the relationships between various 
communities, from college students 
to businesses. These platforms are 
successful, though, because they 
cater to large audiences  unlike 
BlueLine, which is limited to one 
profession.
According to the Bureau of Justice 
Statisticss 2008 Census of State and 
Local Law Enforcement Agencies, 
there are currently more than 1.1 
million state and local law enforcement personnel in the United States. 
This number may seem large, but not 
compared to the 1.11 billion users 
worldwide that Facebook says it has. 
Now compare these numbers to what 
Facebook estimates to be 2.7 billion 
people worldwide who have Internet access. With little quali?cation 
needed to create an account on Facebook  or other sites like Twitter and 
Pinterest  there is a current potential user base of 2.7 billion people. 
Now, compare this to the seemingly 
insigni?cant 1.1 million potential law 
enforcement of?cers who could use 
BlueLine. The potential user base 
seems, and will probably be, relatively small  possibly too small to gain 
traction among of?cers.
Furthermore, 20for25.com  another social networking site for police of?cers  already launched in 
August, according to NBC News. The 
existence of more than one police 
networking site could further lower 
BlueLines user base by dispersing of?cers across the Internet.
Brattons vision to unite of?cers 
across the nation is highly desirable 
in an increasingly connected world, 
but a website identi?ed as a social 
network may not have a large enough 
audience or the professional quality 
needed to achieve this vision.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Forum editor 
for The Tartan.
WILLIAM PARK
When it comes to political policies, the public wants simple answers 
to blunt questions: Is politician As 
new strategy good? Are country Bs 
actions deplorable? Policy is easy to 
judge when the issue is black and 
white. In every debate, however, 
there are gray areas  these make 
writers jobs challenging when dealing with polarizing issues.
In the Aug. 30 edition of The 
Washington Post, Betsy Karasik explored gray areas in her op-ed, The 
unintended consequences of laws 
addressing sex between teachers 
and students. As uncomfortable as 
her argument is, she raises a worthy 
discussion, and the article does not 
deserve the backlash it has received.
Karasik argues that the criminalization of consensual sex between 
teacher and student  resulting in 
law proceedings that are often drawn 
out and heavily scrutinized by the 
media  does more harm than good.
The intensity of criminal proceedings  with all the pressure 
they put on participants, the stigma, 
the community and media scrutiny, 
and the concurrent shame and guilt 
they generate  do the opposite of 
healing and protecting the victim, 
she said.
Her article was written in response to the 30-day sentencing of 
teacher Stacey Rambold, who pleaded guilty to raping a 14-year-old student, and it has enraged readers.
One readers comment states, 
As far as Im concerned, [Karasik] 
is as bad as a sexual predator. She is 
able and willing to rationalize sexual 
predation to the point that if she witnessed it, I doubt she would do anything to stop it.
ThinkProgress, a progressive blog, 
criticized and simpli?ed Karasiks 
argument down to the idea that consensual sex between student and 
teacher should not be criminalized.
Critics miss many of Karasiks 
points by overlooking the gray areas.
Karasik never explicitly states that 
student-teacher sex should not be 
criminalized. Although legal action 
may not be taken, she advocates for 
professional action. In fact, she says, 
Teachers who engage in sex with 
students ... should be removed from 
their jobs and barred from teaching unless they prove that they have 
completed rehabilitation.
While having sex with an underage student is a blatant abuse of 
teacher power and rightfully falls under the crime of statutory rape, the 
public attention and the stares from 
classmates can do more harm to the 
student than good. In the case Karasik references, the student committed suicide two years after the initial 
incident, as the case was pending. No 
one will ever know what led her to 
take her life, but the timing suggests 
that it was the events following, rather than the sex itself, that pushed her.
It is unfortunate that many readers drew such hasty conclusions, as if 
one must be either for or against the 
criminalization of statutory rape. The 
moral spectrum Karasik proposes, 
however, is much more delicate and 
complex than such binarism.
What Karasik offers is not a solution to a dividing issue, but a starting point for a new discussion. To 
interpret her argument as a de?nitive 
proclamation on what must be done 
would be to overlook the gray areas 
that Karasik tries to clarify.
William Park (wkp@) is assistant 
Forum editor for The Tartan.
Argument over statutory rape simpli?ed too much
New networking site may not be appropriate for police
Universitystereotypesdont re?ectcampus life 
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor 
...with the 
popularity of 
social media sites, 
Bratton wanted 
to jump on the 
bandwagon, but 
these sites may 
not be appropriate 
in a professional 
context.
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Junior Staffwriter
The ?rst time I stepped onto 
Carnegie Mellons campus last fall 
for my campus tour, I couldnt help 
but notice countless festivities occurring beside the Fence, plaid as 
far as the eye could see, and a diverse array of students. Little did I 
know that just a year from my ?rst 
visit, this campus would become a 
place that I would learn to know 
and love.
I thought that my social life 
would be the price Id have to pay 
to go to a school that excelled academically. Stereotypically, Carnegie Mellon is known as a school 
with all of the work and none of 
the play. 
However, it is clear that this stereotype isnt accurate after my ?rst 
few weeks as a student.
The people I have befriended 
remind me of myself. The various 
events throughout Orientation 
week, such as Playfair and House 
Wars, have revealed just how social, friendly, and exciting the student body is at Carnegie Mellon. 
The campus is very different 
from where I was raised in rural 
Pennsylvania, and different in a 
fantastic way.
When I began classes, my love 
for Carnegie Mellon continued to 
grow. I was amazed by how much I 
learned each day. In a single week, 
I have learned what would have 
taken weeks or months in high 
school. 
My professors are the best in 
the game, and have already helped 
me to discover things I never realized. When I nerded out over an 
explanation of how integrationby-parts is essentially the opposite 
of the product rule, I realized that 
this is where I belong.
There is, however, one Carnegie Mellon stereotype that seems 
to hold true: This university is 
a place where each and every 
students heart is in the work, a 
mentality that is perhaps the best 
thing about Carnegie Mellon. The 
people I have met thus far, from 
?rst-years to seniors, are passionate about what they do. 
There are future CEOs, engineers, Hollywood actors or actresses, and scientists taking part 
in the hefty workload that has 
already brought so many before 
them to success. While the workload here is undeniably demanding, the students still take part in 
activities that they love and enjoy 
social lives, contrary to any stereotypes. A walk through the hundreds of tables at the Activities Fair 
is enough to prove that students 
are passionate and are active on 
and off campus.
Carnegie Mellon is a place 
where people have fun, whether 
theyre working or playing. There 
is never a dull moment. Whether 
they are spent exploring the city 
or determining the name of a mystery function in Principles of Imperative Computation, every day 
at Carnegie Mellon promises to be 
an exciting one.
Brian Walsh
Business
First-year
15-112 because Professor 
Kosbie is very supportive.
Shahana Ganesharajah
MechE & BME
Junior
Rehabilitation Engineering because it puts us in a perspective 
we dont usually think about.
Dan Miele
Drama
Sophomore
Music, Cinema, Culture! It is 
a wonderful cross-disciplinary 
experience.
Bryan Lewis
ESTP
Graduate Student
Weight training because I dont 
have to think.
Ben Perion
ECE
First-year
Introduction to BME because we 
had a lecture about zombies!

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 9, 2013
Womens soccer opens with 11 tieReano goal leads Tartan 10 victory
SPORTS COMMENTARYNFL preview: Steelers strive to rebound in crowded AFC
Alan Vangpat/Staff Photographer
Junior forward Savina Reid (top) maneuvers for the ball against an Ohio Northern University defender during Saturdays home game. The Tartans 
tied with the Polar Bears, 11, in the ?rst game of the Carnegie Mellon DoubleTree Tartan Cup.
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
After four teasing weeks of 
preseason while only getting 
glimpses of the starters, we 
?nally get some real football. 
This weekend saw the start of 
the NFL season, and predictions abound as to how each 
NFL division will ?nish come 
January.
AFC East
For the past decade, this division has been dominated by 
the New England Patriots under head coach Bill Belichick 
and quarterback Tom Brady. 
The Miami Dolphins represent 
the only real threat to their 
reign, but even with their highpro?le free-agent acquisitions 
of wide receiver Mike Wallace and linebacker Dannell 
Ellerbe, they still appear to be a 
few years and few playmakers 
away. 
The Buffalo Bills and New 
York Jets are starting rookie 
quarterbacks E. J. Manuel and 
Geno Smith, respectively. Both 
teams rely heavily on their defense, but neither looks to be a 
serious contender.
AFC North
Home to the Super Bowl 
champions Baltimore Ravens 
and the Pittsburgh Steelers, 
this is shaping up to be the 
toughest division in the AFC 
yet again. 
The Ravens, Steelers, and 
Cincinnati Bengals are likely 
playoff contenders. The Bengals look to be in the drivers 
seat to win the division with 
third-year quarterback Andy 
Dalton and his top target A. J. 
Green. Combined with the best 
defensive line in the league, 
these assets have turned the 
Bengals into a Super Bowl 
threat. The Ravens are dealing with major losses on both 
sides of the ball with leader 
Ray Lewis retiring and veteran 
wide receiver Anquan Boldin 
being traded away. The Steelers are still aging and returning 
many of the same pieces that 
produced a disappointing 88 
season a year ago. The Cleveland Browns, while improving, 
are still easily the worst in this 
division.
AFC South
The Houston Texans look 
to make another appearance 
as division winners under defensive lineman J. J. Watt and 
running back Arian Foster. The 
only major addition is former 
Ravens safety Ed Reed, who is 
starting off the season with an 
injury. The Indianapolis Colts 
surprisingly made the playoffs 
last year under then-rookie 
quarterback Andrew Luck and 
look to repeat the feat this year. 
It may be dif?cult, though, as 
many expect the team to hit a 
sophomore slump and take a 
step or two back. The Tennessee Titans and Jacksonville 
Jaguars are both trying to 
evaluate their young quarterbacks, Jake Locker and Blaine 
Gabbert, in an attempt to decide whether or not to move on 
from their young projects.
AFC West
The Denver Broncos have 
put the division in their rearview mirror as they focus solely on winning the Super Bowl. 
Quarterback Peyton Manning 
knows he only has a year or 
two left and is giving it everything hes got. The Kansas City 
Chiefs are a completely new 
team after trading for quarterback Alex Smith and signing 
former Philadelphia Eagles 
head coach Andy Reid. The 
San Diego Chargers are under 
new management with a new 
coach and general manager, 
but most of the personnel remains the same and thus so 
will their record. Unsurprisingly, the Oakland Raiders are 
in disarray with quarterback 
Terrelle Pryor coming out of 
nowhere to steal the starting 
quarterback job.
NFC East
Every year the fate of this 
division comes down to the last 
game, and this year seems to 
be no different. The New York 
Giants, Dallas Cowboys, and 
Washington Redskins each had 
a chance to win the division 
in the ?nal game of last years 
season and all come back with 
virtually the same teams. With 
some substantial injuries to 
Redskins quarterback Robert 
Grif?n III, and the Cowboys 
and Giants lines, this will likely 
be a war of attrition. The only 
major changes come with the 
Eagles, where Chip Kelly has 
replaced Andy Reid as coach. 
Kelly brings a very up-tempo 
college offense with him and 
looks to shake up the NFL, but 
is likely not to be competitive 
this season.
NFC North
This is another division that 
looks to be a dog ?ght with all 
four teams having legitimate 
playoff aspirations. The Green 
Bay Packers look the best on 
paper, but their rookie-based 
running games and sketchy 
secondary could be their 
downfall. The Minnesota Vikings hopes rest solely on the 
shoulders of MVP Adrian Peterson, with quarterback Christian Ponder acting more as a 
facilitator than a playmaker. 
The Chicago Bears and Detroit 
Lions both underperformed 
last year and have serious questions speci?cally concerning 
the offense for Chicago and the 
defense for Detroit.
NFC South
With the return of coach 
Sean Payton, the New Orleans 
Saints are looking to bounce 
back from a disappointing season. The Atlanta Falcons are 
returning a very similar team 
to last years division-winning 
squad with veteran running 
back Steven Jackson replacing 
Michael Turner. The Tampa 
Bay Buccaneers and Carolina 
Panthers are both trying to 
evaluate their young quarterbacks, Josh Freeman and Cam 
Newton, who are not quite living up to expectations they set 
after their ?rst few years in the 
league.
NFC West
This is by far the most 
stacked division in the NFL. 
The San Francisco 49ers and 
Seattle Seahawks are debatably the top two teams in the 
NFL and will be slugging it out 
for the division. Both feature 
young mobile quarterbacks 
and very strong defenses. The 
St. Louis Rams look to make 
major strides under their second season with coach Jeff 
Fisher, and they have hope after ?nishing 411 in the division last season. 
The Arizona Cardinals are 
the wild card with new coach 
Bruce Arians and quarterback 
Carson Palmer. If Palmer can 
?nd his timing with all-pro receiver Larry Fitzgerald, look for 
the Cardinals to have a good 
season.
JENNIFER COLOMA
Publisher
Carnegie Mellons womens soccer team kicked off its 
season with one tie (11) and 
one loss (32) in this weekends DoubleTree Tartan Cup. 
The Tartans started the season ranked ?fth, their highestever national ranking, in the 
NSCAA/Continental Tire Division III.
The ?rst game of the DoubleTree Tartan Cup, a tournament among the top ten 
nationally ranked teams, featured Carnegie Mellon against 
Ohio Northern University last 
Saturday. 
The Ohio Northern Polar 
Bears struck ?rst 26 minutes 
into the game. Goalkeeper 
Anna Albi was forced to leave 
her net due to a challenge on 
the right wing by Ohio Northerns Sandy Plunkett.
Down 10 at halftime, the 
Tartans dominated the second half. In the 54th minute, 
junior forward Amanda So 
scored The Tartans ?rst and 
only goal of the match. 
The goal came after senior 
defender Rachel Contopoulos 
lobbed a pass right behind the 
Ohio Northern defense to So, 
who anticipated the ball and 
snuck it beneath the goalie. 
Despite controlling most of 
the possession and outshooting the Polar Bears 122, the 
Tartans failed to score the decisive goal, resulting in a 11 
tie.
The following game on 
Sunday saw Carnegie Mellon 
womens soccer team facing 
Johns Hopkins University, 
ranked as the seventh-best 
team nationally. 
In the 18th minute, So 
opened up the scoring again 
for the Tartans. So made it 
a hat trick for the weekend 
when she scored six minutes 
later after a through pass from 
sophomore Carson Quiros.
Johns Hopkins responded 
and evened the score within 
the next seven minutes. Hopkins scored the game-winning 
goal in the 56th minute with 
a penalty kick by Sydney Teng 
and would hold onto the lead 
for a 32 victory.
On Wednesday, Carnegie 
Mellons womens soccer team 
will travel to Washington & 
Jefferson College to compete 
against the Presidents and try 
to improve their 111 record.
JOSH SMITH
Editor-in-Chief
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens soccer team began 
September with a crushing 
double-overtime loss at Dickinson College last Saturday, 
only to emerge victorious in 
a shutout at Elizabethtown 
College yesterday, bringing 
its record to 31.
The match started with 
an early Dickinson lead after 
their only regulation goal by 
Dickinson mid?elder Isaac 
Pitkow in the ?fth minute. It 
wasnt until the second half 
that the Tartans got on the 
board with senior mid?elder 
Matt Saretts score against 
Dickinson goalkeeper Reed 
Milbrath with less than 15 
minutes in regulation left.
However, the major upset came in double overtime 
with two seconds left, when 
Dickinson forward Alfred 
Hylton-Dei scored the decisive goal.
Senior mid?elder Mike 
Ferraco gave the Dickinson 
team credit for their performance on the ?eld. Dickinson was the best team we 
played this week, Ferraco 
said. The best team weve 
played so far.
The main talking point of 
the match against Dickinson 
was de?nitely how unbelievably close it was between the 
two teams. It was a crazy 
game, really bizarre, said 
senior defender Ben Bryant. 
Ferraco agreed, saying that, 
It was ridiculous game, everything that could have happened did.
After the heartbreaking 
defeat at Dickinson, the Tartans were ready to bring their 
A-game to Elizabethtown, 
Pa. for their next match. We 
were trying to learn some lessons from [Saturday]s loss, 
Bryant said.
After an early barrage of 
shots by the Tartans against 
Elizabethtown, senior defender/mid?elder Jerome 
Reano delivered, scoring the 
only goal of the game in the 
42nd minute. 
With some crucial saves 
by junior goalkeeper Jacob 
Rice, the team was able to 
hold for a 10 shutout win 
against Elizabethtown, leaving the Tartans with a 31 
record.
The team was motivated 
after Saturday to execute and 
come back strong on Sunday. 
We bounced back really well 
today, Ferraco said. Its 
hard to come off of a loss like 
that.
Four games into the season, the team is looking forward to making the grade. 
Our next few games are 
where we are really going to 
have to prove ourselves, Ferraco said.
The Tartans are hopeful 
that their experiences so far 
in the season will help do 
exactly that. You learn from 
your mistakes, Bryant said, 
and thats something we 
want to carry on.
The mens soccer team 
will face Geneva College this 
Wednesday at a 7 p.m. match 
at home, followed by an away 
game against Allegheny College on Saturday at 1 p.m.
UAA Sports Standings
Football
Univ.WLConf.
CWRU1000
Chicago1000
CMU0100
Wash. U.0100
Mens Soccer
Univ.WLTConf.
Brandeis40000
Emory40000
NYU40000
Chicago20000
CMU31000
Rochester31000
CWRU10200
Wash. U.21000
Womens Soccer
Univ.WLLConf
Wash. U.40000
Brandeis30000
Rochester31000
CWRU21000
Chicago21000
Emory21100
NYU21100
CMU11100
Volleyball
Univ.WLConf.
Wash. U.8000
Emory7000
CMU8100
NYU6100
Chicago4200
CWRU4400
Brandeis3400
Rochester2600

---------------------------------------------------

The Lion King 
The Broadway musical favorite comes 
to the Pittsburgh stage  B6
09.09.13 Volume 108, Issue 3

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Discover all you can do in a kilt in this weeks 
comics.
8
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents two summer movies in 
McConomy Auditorium this weekend.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith 
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Joan Marcus
6
45
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about managing 
your time in these first few weeks of classes.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Fall fashion
Learn how to work your favorite summer 
garments into a fall wardrobe.
3
Warhol Museum
The Andy Warhol Museums three summer 
exhibitions are unique and provocative.
4
American Horror Story
The hit horror TV show is set to return this fall 
with more hair-raising stories.
5
The Lion King
Broadway Across America presents a stunning 
show in Disneys The Lion King.
6
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks sudoku and 
kakuro puzzles.
9
Horoscopes
Find out whether the stars have aligned in your 
favor this week.
10
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for arts and 
culture happenings both on campus and off.
11

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 09.09.133
Fall ushers in new fashion
Septembers chills are reason to revamp your wardrobe
The start of September brings cold weather in the 
mornings and evenings while youre walking to and 
from home, but warm weather during the day when 
youre walking around campus. As a result, many 
people might currently be facing the dilemma of 
what to wear.
Since its too early for winter clothes and too chilly 
for summer wear, the natural solution is to mix 
elements of the two. Not only will this better prepare 
you for the ever-changing climate, youll also be able 
to wear your favorite sundress for longer than you 
expected. Below are a couple tips that will help you 
dress for current weather patterns and transition 
your summer clothes into the fall.
Summer Skirts and Dresses
If you think its time to put away your summer skirts 
and dresses, think again. With boots and socks or 
tights, they can make for a great fall outfit. Try either 
type of legwear in a pattern to add interest to the 
look, but make sure they dont clash with the pattern 
of your skirt or dress. Shorter boots are better for this 
look  combat boots are especially fashion forward.
You can also make your skirt or dress weather 
appropriate by throwing on a light fall jacket, a 
cardigan, or a sweater. Common choices of jacket 
for this time of year include denim or, as it gets 
colder, leather. Military jackets have been in style 
for a while, and they make perfect fall jackets. When 
theyre paired with floral skirts and dresses, the 
result is a girly-meets-edgy look.
Maxi Dresses
Maxi dresses are a comfortable warm weather outfit, 
but theyre difficult to style. Can such a summer 
staple be worn in the fall?
Some experts say no; others say yes, so its all a 
matter of personal opinion. Fashion blogger Lauren 
Conrad indicated on her blog that the style is 
...perfect for transitioning your summer wardrobe 
into fall. Conrad also advises that proportion is key 
and recommends cropped sweaters and jackets to 
complete the look.
Maxi dresses are on the bohemian side as far as 
trends go, and Free People Clothing Boutique is a 
useful source for inspiration on how to style them. 
In general, the maxi dresses featured on the website 
have been paired with short combat boots and follow 
LCs advice with sweaters and jackets that are a 
shorter length.
Other Pieces
Summer tank tops can also make for versatile pieces. 
They provide an alternative to wearing sweaters and 
pullovers during colder weather, since you can layer 
them with cardigans. Add a light scarf to make the 
look more interesting and add a little extra warmth. 
Tank tops that are a longer length could be worn 
with leggings or jeggings and tall boots.
As for shoes, sandals and flip flops might be 
wearable for another week or two, but as it starts 
getting colder you should begin making the change 
to close-toed shoes. Oxfords and ballet flats are both 
useful intermediates between summer and winter 
shoes, though some people feel comfortable enough 
wearing their boots all year round.
When transitioning your wardrobe from summer to 
autumn, the key is to mix and match elements from 
both seasons while making sure that colors, patterns, 
and proportions are all in order.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Advice for awkward people
Dear Ryan,
I thought taking five 
classes and joining a 
bunch of clubs after the 
Activities Fair was a good 
idea and that Id totally be 
able to handle it, but I was 
so, so wrong. How do I 
handle this stress and still 
do everything I want to 
do? I thought college was 
supposed to be fun!
Sincerely,
Oh Boy; Vexed, 
Increasingly Oblivious 
Underclassman, Seriously 
Lost, Young Abductee 
Feels Really Eager, 
Shows Hopefulness, 
Maddeningly Aggressively 
Naive
Dear OBVIOUSLY A 
FRESHMAN,
There are two things youre 
going to need to learn, and 
learn quickly, if youre going 
to survive at Carnegie Mellon 
(and at college in general). 
Youve got to learn to 
prioritize your activities and 
manage your time. 
If youre taking a class that 
you really dont like, dont 
be afraid to reorganize 
your schedule (especially if 
that class is not required). 
Who knows  you may 
end up finding something 
you like better to put in its 
place. Theres a certain 
push at Carnegie Mellon 
toward taking 70 units each 
semester because hey, you 
can do it, right?
Maybe. But instead of taking 
that extra class to get that 
fifth minor, try joining some 
clubs. Lots of clubs! But 
then only stick with the one 
or two you really like and 
enjoy being a part of. You 
can like writing more than 
life itself, but if you have a 
nasty editor it can make 
the whole experience turn 
sour  something that this 
writer can happily admit 
he has never experienced! 
Just remember that you are 
here to get a degree, so if 
you find yourself struggling 
to pass your classes (and 
that is pass, not get all As), 
perhaps its time to revise 
your commitments.
Second, you must manage 
your time efficiently. Im not 
going to sit here and preach 
good time management, 
since if youve gotten 
into Carnegie Mellon you 
probably have a pretty good 
idea of what works for you 
(and I would not recommend 
my time management style 
to anyone). 
That said, once youve 
planned a schedule, do your 
best to stick to it. Because 
once you get off that plan, it 
gets infinitely harder to get 
back on it.
But above all, you should 
monitor yourself and your 
well-being. If youre not 
happy with something, or 
you find yourself lying awake 
at night questioning your 
decisions, make a change. 
These years are about you. 
That said, dont forget about 
your friends. There really is 
no substitute for someone 
who takes you out of your 
own head for a while.
For the love of all that you 
hold dear, be happy.
Or maybe it just gets 
worse,
Ryan Black
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About keeping your priorities straight
           Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 09.09.13
True to form, the Andy Warhol Museum currently has 
three unique and thought-provoking exhibits set to 
close on Sept. 15. S/HE IS HER/E is a retrospective on 
the work of artist Genesis Breyer P-Orridge; All Through 
the Night features photographs of Pittsburghs LGBT 
community taken by photographer Caldwell Linker; and 
The Patron Saint of White Guys That Went Tribal and 
Other Works features sculptures by artist Nick Bubash.
S/HE IS HER/E
This exhibit features the work of Genesis Breyer 
P-Orridge (born Neil Andrew Megson), a revolutionary 
artist who has been creating since the mid 70s. The 
pieces in this exhibit de?nitely make a strong impact. 
Exploring themes such as open-ended conceptions of 
identity and rebelling against societal norms regarding 
sexuality, S/HE IS HER/E features a number of collages 
that are incredibly violent and sexual. Untitled is a 
passport photo showing two different versions of the 
same underlying face, while Princess of Clubs features 
images of sexual bondage. At times, S/HE IS HER/E 
can be overwhelming, but one thing is for certain: 
This exhibit will make you think more than any other 
exhibition currently at the Warhol.
All Through the Night
This simple exhibition of Linkers work celebrates the 
human experience while showcasing Pittsburghs 
vibrant LGBTQ community. One walks in and sees an 
entire wall of photos depicting life in all its ups and 
downs. Veruca, After Getting Beat Up depicts a young 
person with a black eye in the shower, highlighting 
the struggle for acceptance still faced by the LGBTQ 
community.
Not all the photos are so somber, though. Lee Relvas 
& Silky portrays two young lovers sharing a tender 
moment in a bedroom. The piece brims with the 
happiness and excitement of teenage love.
The entire collection is incredibly varied. Alaska & 
Veruca shows a couple trying on wedding dresses, 
while in Megan & Libbi a woman in heavy makeup 
appears nude in a bathroom stall. The subjects in All 
Through the Night have a lust for life that is undeniable 
and infectious; after visiting, one gains renewed passion 
for his or her own life.
The Patron Saint of White Guys That Went Tribal 
and Other Works
The museum describes this exhibition as a collection of 
sculptures made from bric-a-brac, toys, tattoo needles, 
and other inexplicable consumer culture cast-offs, and 
thats pretty spot on. Artist Nick Bubash has created a 
number of visually stimulating and diverse sculptures. 
They range from the incredibly ornate Patron Saint of 
White Guys That Went Tribal to the sparse Man Is 
Praying, Prayingmanis, a reproduction of the Venus Di 
Milo with a seashell hat.
Many of the pieces are very colorful and appear to 
contain several hundred components at the very least. 
Portrait of a Serial Killer features tiny cats and skulls 
with glowing eyes with references to voodoo dolls and 
other seemingly evil spirits. Cacophony of Cacophonus 
looks just as it sounds  a collection of ?gures made 
from junk found in the bottom of a toy box all standing 
together at attention. While Nick Bubashs works dont 
leave the same impact as P-Orridges or Linkers, they 
are still something to marvel at.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
The Warhol presents three provocative exhibits
Genesis Breyer P-Orridge, Caldwell Linker, and Nick Bubash are among artists on display
Caldwell Linkers photography exhibit All Through the Night explores challenges unique to the LGBTQ community.
Courtesy of the Andy Warhol Museum
Part of a retrospective exhibit on the art of Genesis Breyer P-Orridge, Dopplegangered is among many 
photographs in S/HE IS HER/E that challenge conventional notions of gender and sexuality.
Courtesy of the Andy Warhol Museum

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 09.09.135
Warning: This article contains spoilers for the ?rst two 
seasons of American Horror Story.
October is just around the corner, and with it will come 
the premiere of the much-anticipated third season of 
FXs American Horror Story.
American Horror Story is a miniseries, meaning that 
each season has a plot line independent of previous 
seasons. For this reason, little is known about what to 
expect in the third season, but heres what we know.
FX recently announced via the of?cial American 
Horror Story Facebook page that the new season, 
titled American Horror Story: Coven, will premiere on 
Wednesday, Oct. 9 at 10 p.m. EST. The 13-episode 
miniseries will revolve around a coven of witches who 
are mysteriously attacked 300 years after the Salem 
witch trials and who come into contact with voodoo 
priestesses; it will take place in both the 1830s and in the 
present, according to The Latin Times.
Series veteran Jessica Lange will be a part of the coven 
as Fiona, the Supreme Witch, says FX via Facebook. 
Fiona will teach young witches to protect themselves 
from the mysterious attacks at a witch academy. Lange 
has played standout characters in previous seasons: 
youth-obsessed neighbor Constance Langdon in the 
?rst season and discipline-crazy Sister Jude in the 
second season. Her insecurities in both seasons made 
her characters relatable, yet her actions also made her 
unlikable. In the ?rst season, Langes character was 
ashamed of her daughter and her own wrinkled face, and 
in the second season, her character was overwhelmed 
with guilt about the death of a young girl.
FX also revealed on the American Horror Story Facebook 
page that actress Taissa Farmiga, who played Violet 
Harmon during the ?rst season, will now play a young 
witch named Zoe, one of Fionas pupils. Sarah Paulson 
 Lana Winters in American Horror Story: Asylum  
announced at the Television Critics Association fall 
previews in August that she will play Fionas daughter, 
Cordelia, according to TV Guide. Other returning cast 
members con?rmed by FX include Lily Rabe, Frances 
Conroy, Evan Peters, Denis OHare, and Kathy Bates. 
New cast members include Gabourey Sidibe, Patti 
LuPone, Emma Roberts, Alexander Dreymon, and 
Angela Bassett.
Bassett will play real-life ?gure Marie Laveau, a Voodoo 
practitioner known throughout New Orleans in the 
1800s, while Bates will play Delphine LaLaurie, a historic 
serial killer known for murdering slaves, according to TV 
Guide.
Absent from the cast of returning characters is Zachary 
Quinto, whose presence will be sorely missed. Quinto 
appeared in both previous seasons, but had an integral 
role in the second season as a psychiatrist with a dark 
side. Quinto delivered a truly disturbing performance in 
the second season, providing periods of unnerving calm 
in tense situations and releases of anger that were sure 
to make viewers tremble with horri?ed pleasure.
Beginning Aug. 29, FX released a series of teaser 
trailers for Coven. The ?rst trailer, Detention, depicts 
women ?oating in the air pressed against various 
walls of a white room and hanging in the recesses of a 
blackened ?replace. Other teaser trailers depict witches 
burning on stakes, a mysterious person punctured by 
pins like a voodoo doll, and a woman buried alive but 
calmly moving about beneath the ground. The teasers 
are snappy and hint at what will hopefully be another 
visually stunning season. The ?rst season provided 
intense images for the viewer to cling to, such as the 
black-suited Rubber Man and a white-walled bathroom 
with its white bathtub, while the second season was 
more atmospheric with its elaborate set pieces including 
the laboratory of Dr. Arthur Arden and the cells of the 
asylums patients.
Sarah Paulson claimed that the show will have a lighter 
tone than previous seasons, according to The Today 
Show. However, the teasers hint otherwise.
The ?rst season successfully incorporated lighthearted 
elements into its disturbing plot, which revolved around 
a haunted house with murderers and baby-stealing 
ghosts. For example, mother Vivien Harmon, played 
by actress Connie Britton, joined a bus tour led by an 
eccentric guide that passed by her new home  dubbed 
the Murder House  in order to learn about its past. 
The characters were also provided escape from their 
horrors through various normal locales, such as homely 
kitchens and family-friendly neighborhood streets.
The series is most intriguing, however, when its 
characters are subjected to elements of classic horror. 
While the ?rst season was scary, the second season 
raised the bar by placing its characters within an 
asylum, with no reprieve from the horrors that confronted 
them. Moments of humor were replaced by mad 
scientists, possessed nuns, and monstrous experimental 
creations.
The atmosphere of the second season was more effective 
at creating a truly terrifying experience for the viewer, 
and this relentlessness is something that the creators of 
the series would be wise to continue throughout season 
three.
The latest season of American Horror Story is shaping 
up to be a promising installment in the anthology-like 
miniseries from the minds of creators Ryan Murphy and 
Brad Falchuk, with what will hopefully be a strong set of 
scares from an all-star cast.
Braden Kelner | Forum Editor
American Horror Story: Coven approaches
The mysterious third season of FXs chilling hit series is set to return next month 
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
What happens when a group of spoiled and rebellious teens robs the homes of 
Hollywoods elite? They appear in a movie about their debauchery directed by ?lm 
princess So?a Coppola. While it is based on shallow indulgence with pop culture, 
The Bling Ring proves to be entertaining. Emma Watson nails the Valley Girl persona 
as the ringleader of Hollywoods most notorious gang. Coupled with a banging 
soundtrack and cameos from the faces of pop culture (ahem, Paris Hilton), The Bling 
Ring is deliciously enjoyable and provides a peek into the lives of Hollywoods most 
dangerous wannabes.
The Bling Ring 
Thursday, Sept. 12 7:30, 9:30 
Sunday, Sept. 15  9:30
Iron Man 3
Friday, Sept. 13  7, 10 
Sunday, Sept. 15  7
In the most recent installment of the most exciting series Marvel has produced, 
Robert Downey Jr. appears on screen as the explosively charismatic Tony Stark 
(a.k.a. Iron Man). A refreshing summer experience, the ?lm explores whether or 
not Stark should retire the iron mask and live a peaceful life with his girlfriend, 
Pepper Potts (played by Gwyneth Paltrow). Iron Man 3 appropriately mixes humor 
with entertainment while infusing character with its energetic cast. Also featured 
are Jon Favreau, Guy Pearce, and Ben Kingsley.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature 
pillbox 09.09.1376feature
pillbox 09.09.13
Nants ingonyama bagithi Babasithi uhm ingonyama!
With the classic opening notes that have been so deeply 
ingrained in so many childhoods, the musical rendition 
of Disneys The Lion King roared into the Benedum 
Center. The show, which will run until Sept. 29, is 
arguably one of the most celebrated musicals ever to 
grace the Broadway stage.
According to a Pittsburgh Cultural Trust press release, 
The Lion King has toured in 70 cities across the United 
States  but thats one of the least stunning statistics 
about the show. 
The press release goes on to describe how The Lion 
King has been performed for nearly 68 million theatergoers across all the continents (except Antarctica) to 
gross over $5 billion  more than all the Star Wars ?lms 
combined.
Clearly, this show is doing something right, and its 
easy to see why its successful after attending the 
Sept. 4 show of the current North American production 
tour. Funded by PNCs Broadway Across America 
program, the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, and the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, this stop on the tour is the encore 
performance following the shows hugely successful 2004 
and 2008 runs.
The show was, in a word, breathtaking. From the 
larger-than-life costumes, to the African drums that beat 
from either side of the stage, to the moments in which, 
yes, even as an almost-20-year-old, I was crying, the 
performance was the de?nition of a spectacle.
The tour also features Carnegie Mellon alumnus Michael 
Hollick (CFA 95), who tours with the show as a standby 
for Scar  Simbas cunning and dangerous uncle played 
by Patrick Brown  and for Pumbaa (Ben Lipitz), the 
lovable warthog who, with Timon (Nick Cordileone) the 
meerkat, adopts Simba after he runs away.
After attending the precollege program in 1990, Hollick 
was offered early admission to Carnegie Mellon upon 
auditioning for the School of Drama. One of four students 
admitted that summer, Hollick entered his senior year of 
high school knowing that he was Carnegie Mellon and 
Pittsburgh bound.
Hollick loved his time at Carnegie Mellon and credits 
most of his acting ability to the schools professors and 
his peers. Don Wadsworth is a remarkable teacher 
who teaches speech and diction, and the things that he 
taught I still use today. And the thing thats wonderful 
about him is that he remains in contact with alums, 
including me, Hollick said.
As a standby, Hollick must be ready to ?ll in for either 
role at the drop of a hat if the actors are sick, injured, on 
vacation, or just taking a personal day.
Its a lot of pressure, particularly for a production like 
this one. Its so highly regarded, and its a well-respected 
performance  in every city we go to, we sell out, 
Hollick said. These are top-tier, amazing performers: 
You cant drop the ball.
Despite the pressure, Hollick always feels prepared to ?ll 
in, should the occasion arise: Fortunately for me, I went 
to CMU. And that sounds cheesy, but its the truth. The 
fact that Im able to go on at a moments notice. I rely 
on a lot of things I learned there to keep my body, voice, 
and mind in shape to be ready to go on.
Its easy to see how the role of a standby for this show 
could be intimidating. Billed as the worlds number-one 
musical, The Lion King leaves nothing to be desired.
Perhaps the most entrancing part is the entire visual 
element of the show. Utilizing the entire theater as 
opposed to just the stage, animal puppets stampeded 
down the aisles and cloth birds ?ew jauntily overhead 
to the amusement of the many children sprinkled 
throughout the theater.
Much more engaging than the 1994 movie, the musical 
portrayed the animals in the story through extensive, 
intricately detailed puppets. The characters and their 
emotions were surprisingly easy to distinguish and 
identify based on the masks that the actors wore and 
the personalities that the performers were able to portray 
even through the simplest movements.
The masks, puppets, and other details had a distinct 
African in?uence that ?t in the musical perfectly. African 
nuances were also woven throughout the music, which 
heavily featured two sets of bongo drums and tribal 
chants. Played perfectly by Brown Lindiwe Mkhize, the 
character of Ra?ki  the mystical baboon who inspires 
Simba to see that his father lives on in his heart  used 
the African chanting most prominently.
Furthermore, multiple numbers in the show used a 
simple shadow puppet method of storytelling, while 
From the African savannah to Pittsburghs Benedum Center: The Lion King
The Tony Award-winning Broadway musical production features stunning performances, dazzling visuals, and appearances by Carnegie Mellon alumnus Michael Hollick
L. Steven Taylor plays Mufasa, Simbas father, whose 
spirit becomes a source of strength for Simba as the 
younger lion goes to challenge his tyrant uncle.
            Courtesy of Joan Marcus
by Laura Scherb | Personnel Manager[]
featuring chanting and dancers dressed in colorful, ?owy 
costumes that were expressive and engaging. This was 
beautifully done and added another cultural element to 
the show that made it deeper and more meaningful.
[Elements] were drawn from cultural theater, so in 
the show, youve got all of these different cultures 
represented. Its got meat on its bones; its not just a 
frivolous musical, Hollick said.
Hollick, who previously acted in the Las Vegas show, 
describes The Lion King as a phenomenon.
Its risen to the level of classic material, he said. 
Youve got these intense emotions, quick and hilarious 
comedy, and then an amazing set and costumes to tie it 
all together. Its an actors dream job, really.
The only underwhelming elements in the show were 
the original songs added to the lineup. In general, the 
audience seemed less engaged during these unfamiliar 
songs. 
This was particularly noticeable during the beginning 
of the second act: In the ?rst half of this act, no songs 
from the well-loved movie were featured. The songs The 
Madness of King Scar, Shadowland, and Endless 
Night, were all beautifully sung and choreographed, 
only adding to the beautiful representation of the 
destruction of Simbas kingdom and the peace of the 
paradise in which he hides. But a restless energy 
seemed to ?ll the seats as this new material washed over 
the audience. After all, when one goes to see a musical 
based on one of the most adored childrens movies of 
all time, one expects to experience the familiar, not be 
introduced to new material.
The lull dispersed, however, the moment the opening 
notes to Elton John and Tim Rices Can You Feel the 
Love Tonight ?oated out into the jungle night. The song 
proved to be one of the highlights of the musical, mostly 
due to the perfect comedic timing of Timon and Pumbaa 
during the introduction and the synchronous energy that 
emanated from the ensemble. 
From there, the score became the familiar themes that 
the audience was used to, and the show ended on a 
poignant note as Simba (Jelani Remy) ascended Pride 
Rock.
Perhaps the most powerful moment in the entire 
production was during the reprise of He Lives in 
You, when Simba looks into the water and sees his 
father staring back at him. The number was beautifully 
performed, not only by the actors but by the symphonic 
accompaniment as well, and the representation of 
Mufasa (L. Steven Taylor) that appeared in the stars was 
positively magical. 
At ?rst, ensemble members merely waved beautiful 
golden ?ags shaped like pieces of a face in time to 
the music. But then, as Simba realized that his father 
truly lived in him, a regal representation of Mufasa 
solidi?ed in the night sky, shining down on Simba and 
the audience. In that moment, it wasnt just a musical 
version of the movie I watched with my brother when we 
were kids.
The Lion King represents the beautiful simplicity of 
childhood  and that representation, through the 
musical, will continue to touch the childhoods of many. 
Hollick encourages Carnegie Mellon students to make 
the trek down to see the show, saying that its an event 
that will teach everyone a powerful lesson.
The Lion King will get their wheels turning intellectually 
and emotionally, relating to the characters. These are 
human issues and problems, and theyre rich, and CMU 
students should run down here to get a taste. Itll enrich 
them; it will fuel their minds as they wrestle with the 
issues presented, Hollick said.
Scar (left, played by Patrick R. Brown) and Mufasa 
(right, L. Steven Taylor) face off in the Broadway Across 
America production of The Lion King.
Courtesy of Joan Marcus                 Courtesy of Joan Marcus
Nala, played by Nia Holloway, stands with an ensemble of her fellow lionesses.

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 09.09.13
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 09.09.139
Solutions from Aug. 26
CrosswordMedium DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of 
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

10horoscopes
pillbox 09.09.13
1. Folk singer Joan
2. Look at amorously
3. Clairvoyant
4. Incinerate
5. Lessened
6. Squander
7. Cheer for Manolete
8. Neeson of Rob Roy
9. Doze
10. Vinegary
11. ___ chance!
12. Predictive sign
13. Rocket launcher
21. Clear as ___
23. Astrologer Sydney
25. Camera stands
27. Tirades
28. Army leader?
29. Food and water
31. Pile
32. Hatch on the Hill
33. Cheers waitress
34. Affirmatives
36. Author Morrison
40. Chew the scenery
41. Wharves
44. Serious in intention
47. Kitchen gadgets
49. Jumble
50. Soundness of judgment
53. Ages between 13 and 19
54. Actor Penn
55. Actress Turner
56. Warts and all
57. Titanic heroine
59. Work without ___
60. TV handyman Bob
61. Breyers rival
64. PBS benefactor
1. Anjou alternative
5. Mil. truant
9. Ecclesiastical rule
14. Antiquing agent
15. Indonesian holiday resort
16. Pueblo Indian village
17. Gen. Robert ___
18. On the ocean
19. French beans?
20. Village near the Matterhorn
22. State in the NW United States
24. Red as ___
26. Long March leader
27. Raved
30. Musical composition
35. Staggering
36. Wedding cake feature
37. Buffalos lake
38. Compass dir.
39. Large spotted cat
42. ___ Tafari (Haile Selassie)
43. It may turn
45. Queue before Q
46. Express a viewpoint
48. Shaped like a bagel topping
50. Views
51. Emeritus: Abbr.
52. Post
54. Defame
58. Shackle
62. Artists support
63. Dedicated to the ___ Love
65. Childrens author Blyton
66. Licorice flavoring
67. Dispatched
68. Be dependent
69. Beastly
70. New Orleans is The Big ___
71. RR stops
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Youve fallen into that same old routine, and its time to mix 
things up a bit.
taurus
april 20may 20
You might have this feeling that youve forgotten something, 
but its just the stress of having so many things on your 
schedule. Just try to relax.
gemini
may 21june 21
You have been repressing your ideas and feelings because 
thats whats expected of you. Its time to break out and just 
go crazy.
cancer
june 22july 22
Just learn to listen to your gut and youll be fine.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You can make it as big or small as you want. Its up to you, 
but you have to make a choice.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
When you learn the truth, dont try to deny it or hide from it.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Be careful how you dress  it might cause a case of 
mistaken identity.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Youre going to have to choose between a rock and a hard 
place, so be prepared and make that decision wisely.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Try to keep busy this week, or you might get into trouble.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
What you need is already right in front of you.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Trust your own judgment and stick to your guns.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Others are looking for an easy target, so dont be too quick 
to accept the blame.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.09.1311
MONDAY9.9.13
Chet Faker. Altar Bar. 7 p.m.
The house/disco artist will be backed by a four-piece live 
band along with samples and an electronic soundscape.
TUESDAY9.10.13
Mayer Hawthorne. Altar Bar. 7 p.m.
The soul artist with in?uence from contemporary hip-hop 
and R&B will perform at the Altar Bar.
OBrother. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
Supported by Native and Daylight, American rock band 
OBrother will bring its complex and spacey music to 
Stage AE.
North Mississippi All Stars. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 7 p.m.
The popular southern rock/blues band will be playing at 
Mr. Smalls.
WEDNESDAY9.11.13
Dada Life. Club Zoo. 9 p.m.
Popular house music act Dada Life will bring its deep 
bass tracks and poppy hooks to Club Zoo along with DJ 
Strobe and DJ Nature.
THURSDAY9.12.13
Mission of Burma. Altar Bar. 7 p.m.
The Boston quartet will play a mix of punk, pop, art rock, 
and avant-garde experimentation.
The Gaslight Anthem. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 7 p.m.
The high-energy Jersey punk act with strong in?uences 
from Bruce Springsteen and other old folk/soul acts will 
play at Mr. Smalls. The group will also perform on Friday.
FRIDAY9.13.13
Rancid. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
Nineties punk-rock act Rancid will bring its snotty attitude 
and raucous, shout-along choruses to Stage AE.
Ukrainian Food Festival. St. Peter & St. Paul Ukrainian 
Orthodox Church in Carnegie, Pa. 11:30 a.m.  7 p.m.
The festival will feature delicious homemade foods such 
as pierogies, kielbasa, and more.
The Souls of Art Folk. August Wilson Center for AfricanAmerican Culture. 6 p.m.
An array of talented local artists will perform a variety 
of pieces examining what it means to be considered a 
problem, speci?cally focusing on this sentiment as felt 
by the LGBTQ and HIV+ communities.
SATURDAY9.14.13
Headphone Disco. Altar Bar. 7 p.m.
This unique experience involves every attendee listening 
to the same DJ through sets of headphones.
Queens of the Stone Age. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
Josh Homme and crew will perform songs from their 
recent hit album ...Like Clockwork, as well as old classics.
GWAR. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
Known for infamous and over-the-top stage shows, the 
hardcore metal band will be tearing apart Mr. Smalls and 
throwing things at the audience as well as playing a few 
songs here and there.
Tom Browne. Kelly Strayhorn Theater. 7 p.m.
The internationally acclaimed trumpeter will perform 
smooth rhythm and blues as well as sizzling jazz.
SUNDAY9.15.13
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic. Carnegie Music Hall. 
8 p.m.
Under the direction of Andrs Crdenes, the Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic will begin its season featuring one of 
last years concerto competition winners sophomore Mimi 
Jung, who will perform Tchaikovskys Violin Concerto.
ONGOING
Defending the Caveman. Cabaret at Theater Square. 
8 p.m. Through Oct. 20.
This is a one-man comedy show featuring humorous 
insights regarding gender and relationships.
Express Burlesque. Cabaret at Theater Square. 
8 p.m. Through Oct. 12.
This exciting burlesque-style dance revue combines an 
old burlesque feel with a provocative-yet-classy twist of 
today. 
Low Tides & Bucolic Daze. Hillman Center for 
Performing Arts. Through Sept. 22.
This exhibit features a collection of hand-painted 
photography landscapes and seascapes by artist 
Rosemary Pipitone.
Art Interprets Alzheimers. Society for Contemporary 
Craft Satellite Gallery. Through Sept. 29.
Sculptures by George Roby and photographs by Herbert 
Ascherman capture the emotional impact of Alzheimers 
through the eyes of patients and their loved ones.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

12gallery
pillbox 09.09.13
Alan Vangpat | Staff Photographer
Students enjoy their last few weeks of warm weather by heading 
outdoors. Top: A group of bronies chalks outside the University Center 
Merson Courtyard. Bottom: Students play volleyball on the Cut.
the great outdoors.
