Pub welcomes crowd to grand opening
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Farrahkan defends views in Pitt lecture In This Issue:
Standing room and idle bartenders were 
both hard to find when CMUs new student 
pub, Scotland Yard, opened this weekend to 
crowds of enthusiastic students,
From the turnout and response, we would 
say that the campus is definitely ready for 
the pub, said Scotland Yard President Cliff 
Sharpies.
In a speech to Pub Committee members 
at an exclusive opening ceremony Thursday 
evening, CMU President Richard M. Cyert 
called the new student nightspot a small 
downpayment on what he said would be a 
great improvement in student life at CMU.
Students sampled non-alcoholic drinks 
and platters from Scotland Yards menu, and 
for the most part commented 
upon the decor, which features two massive 
Scottish gazebos for booth seating, mood 
lighting and a number of historical 
photographs.
You dont feel like youre in Skibo any 
more, said Adam Stoller, a graduate 
student. And its nice to be served. 
Students doing the serving from the new
ly installed kitchen and bar were doubly 
busy, according to one student bartender, 
Tim Cleary. We were not prepared to 
that busy, but we handled it pretty well. We 
even got tips.
The weekend openings live entertainment 
included George Dittmeyers jazz trio, jug
gler Nick Santoro and the CMU Jazz Choii 
on Friday night. On Saturday, student magi
cian Jim Lane performed table-to-table 
tricks, followed by musical group Son of 
John.
Vice-president of Entertainment Maria 
Cousineau said her committee would be 
holding auditions for live entertainment 
throughout the year, adding that anyone 
with an act would be welcomed.
Sharpies said the Scotland Yard will be 
open this semester on Thursday, Friday, and 
Saturday evenings from 7 p.m. to 2 a.m., 
adding that if student response continues, 
the pub would expand its operations to 
possibly five nights a week next semester.
By MARK CARR
Special to The Trtan
Controversial black leader Louis Far; rakhan delivered a lecture at the Univeristy 
j of Pittsburghs Fitzgerald House on the eveni ing of November 14.
The speech was delayed for 
over an hour while members of 
the capacity crowd filtered 
through metal detectors. Securi
ty was provided by university police and the 
I Pittsburgh police force as well as Farrakhans 
personal bodyguards; several members of the 
speakers entourage stood next to him on 
jj stage during the lecture.
After intoning an Islamic prayer and 
making a brief declaration of his Muslim 
faith, Farrakhan flatly stated that he was not 
a bigot and had no intention of spouting any 
f the anti-Semitic rhetoric which has 
brought him national attention. He 
j characterized himself as a man feared by
 those in power, someone who challenges con
ventional notions about the status quo of 
American society.
Clutching a copy of the Koran, Farrakhan 
condemned the misuse of knowledge by 
governmental and corporate institutions; 
claiming that knowledge has become a tool 
for the exploitation and oppression of 
minorities, he urged blacks to expand their 
mental capacity. He argued that members 
of the academic community, both blacks 
and whites, need to question authority and 
look beyond what they learn.
Farrakhan then attempted to refute his 
critics and then explain the meaning of his 
oft-quoted remarks that Hitler was a great 
man and Judaism is a dirty religion. He 
claimed that he first locked horns with the 
Jewish community over its opposition to his 
friend Jesse Jacksons recent campaign for 
presidential nomination.
While professing to understand Jewish ob
jections to Jacksons view on the Middle East, 
he argued that the Jewish response was un
necessarily severe and created a climate of 
hatred which could have led to the can
didates assassination. Farrakhan likened 
himself to a meteorologist, warning the Jews 
that they were stirring up powerful, poten
tially destructive forces. The speaker em
phasized that he did not explicitly praise 
Hitler, but rather used great to 
acknowledge the powerful consequences of 
Nazism, just as one would describe the ef
fects of a violent earthquake. He aid that 
he finds the dictates and beliefs of Judaism 
worthy of respect, yet the Israelis are guilty 
of hypocrisy and thereby dirty their 
religion. Farrakhan laid the blame for the 
furor about his remarks at the feet of the 
media; he often turned to address himself 
directly to the reporters and cameramen 
present.
Drawing his talent as orator and rhetori
cian, Farrakhan made these arguments 
sound quite convincing. While his 
continued on page 2
News 
Board of Trustees meeting.page 2 
Crime and Incident report...page 5
Features
Payroll problems..................page 7
A look at finals....................page 9
Entertainment
James Galway.....................page 13
Windam Hill Review..........page 15
Sports
Harriers come close............page 17
Tartans in playoffs..............page 17
Editorial.............................page 22
ACME,..............................page 27
In Scotland \ard (clockwise from top): students gather Friday evening for live conversation; Erik Horn and Wendy Boyd, 
waiter and waitress, order at the crowded bar; Nick Santoro, "the American Juggle-o, keeps an eye on his hatchet.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 19, 1985
ABoa soon as you get a job .you could get the American Express^ Card.If youre a senior, all you need is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented iob. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. (And even if you dont nave a job right now, dont worry. This offer is still good up to 12 months after you graduate.) Why is American Express making it easier for you to get the Card right now?Well, simply stated, we believe in your future. And as you go up the ladder, we can help in a lot of ways.
The Card can help you begin to establish your credit history. And, for business, the Card is invaluable for travel and restaurants. As well as shopping for yourself.Of course, the American Express Card is recognized around the world. So you are too.So call 1-800-THE-CARD and ask to have a Special Student Application sent to you. Or look for one on campus.The American Express Card. Dont leave school without it.SM
waitiKM XXXOBBt
3112 ^SOOb
Trustees review plans for capital improvement
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Visual presentations documenting CMUs 
plans for capital improvement highlighted 
the Annual Board of Trustees meeting Oct. 
25-27 at the Greenbriar resort in White 
Sulphur Springs, West Virginia.
In an unprecedented means of studentadministration exchange, Student Senate 
President Karen Lee and Senator Cherie 
Jagerski also attended the meeting.
Lee gave a speech to the board requesting 
earmarking of funds for the renovation of 
Skibo from CMUs $100 million capital cam
paign. The capital campaign is well on its 
way, said Lee. The Board is really suppor
ting (the renovation of Skibo).
Lee reported that the board passed the 
Masterplan, a long-range recommendation 
developed by CRS Sirrine, Inc., for the 
locatiion of new or improved campus 
facilities.
The plans for a hotel and conference 
center were accepted as part of the 
Masterplan, but actual construction may be 
delayed until sometime in 1987. Parking has 
posed one problem in planning.
The hotel was not passed separately, but
AMERICANCANCERSOCIETY*
the Masterplan is a plan for 20 to 30 yearrs. 
It is not a stringent plan, commented Lee. 
It is a general guideline.
Lee said that CMU President Richard M. 
Cyert, in his progress report to the Board, ad
dressed concerns about the Software 
Engineering Institute: (Cyert) doesnt want 
(the SEI) to be a fortress that students cant 
walk through. He wants to minimize the 
aspects of classified information.
Andrew Achenbaum, Associate Vice 
President for Academic Affairs and 
Associate Professor of History and 
Philosophy, gave a report on the progress of 
the Core Curriculum, a set of universitywide course requirements. The developing
programs implementation began with this 
years freshman class.
I was against (the Core) at first because 
I thought it would mean extra classes, said 
Jagerski. But the Core is going to take a lot 
of the requirements we already have and put 
them in written form.
Edwin Fenton, Director of the University 
Teaching Center and Professor of History 
and Philosophy at CMU, gave a presentation 
on the functions of the Teaching Center.
Jagerski said the premise of the center, 
which is to help professors with problems 
they may have in communicating with the 
students or presenting the material is very 
effective because its low-pressure. (The 
Center) can get teachers to come in through
Faculty Course Evaluations or Student in
put.
The weekend also featured exhibits on new 
developments at CMU. A Demonstration of 
the Advanced Function Workstation, A Bit 
of Vision: Hardware, Software, Everywhere," 
and The Proposed New Graphic Identity 
Program among others, were very well., 
received by the Board, according to Lee. 
They also seemed truly interested in how 
the students view these changes.
Lee added that she would like to see 
students attend the Board of Trustees 
meeting every year: 1 have much greater 
confidence in the administration (after) 
coming out of that meeting.
Farrakhan lectures at Pitt on his ideals
continued from page 1
statements about Hitler and Judaism are 
defensible when interpreted in the most 
literal sense, it cannot by denied that they 
carry insulting connotations. While it is true 
that great doesnt mean good, it is usually 
a term of praise, especially when applied to 
a person rather than a national disaster.
Although Farrakhans original words were 
that Hitler was wickedly great, this eleva
tion of so hated a figure was obviously in
tended to antagonize the Jewish communi
ty. In the same sense, the phrase dirty 
religion is emotionally charged, regardless 
of the context in which it is spoken. The 
speaker also made it clear that, in his opi
nion, the Israeli nation has no right to ex
ist, since it was founded on lies, thievery, 
and murder. It would seem that Farrakhan 
himself is guilty of contributing to an at
mosphere of hatred.
Nonetheless, Farrakhan appeared as 
anything but the frothing militant he is 
generally depicted to be. In the final section 
of his lecture, he freely criticized members 
of his own race and declared that is is time 
for blacks to stop living off aid programs and 
start producing on their own. With the ex
ception of a few bitter comments about 
slavery and discrimination, he succeeded in 
conveying a theme of universal brotherhood 
and tolerance. Some of his arguments 
against sexism and the stagnation of 
knowledge rang quite true.
A few protestors occasionally shouted in
sults from the floor while the blacks in attendence were vocal in their support of the 
speaker; however, there were no incidents of 
violence in the seating area. Farrakhan pro
mised that the evening was going to be an 
experience, and he did not lie. He is a 
dynamic, sometimes abrasive individual, but 
he is definitely more than a rabble-rousing 
bigot.
 American Expm* Travel Rrla*r'l v>cr\ByK ( ,>mpan\. ir*
Please support
And you didn t mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
Women'sHealthServices-.
Gyn Check-Ups
 Abortion Services
Free Pregnancy Tests.
 Confidential
Counseling
107 6th 8t.-Downtown Pjh. 
Mill MI-1900
PREGNANT?

---------------------------------------------------

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES IS LOOKING FOR ANOTHER VOLTA.
We wouldnt ask you to create a battery out of 
layers of copper and zinc and cardboard soaked 
in saltwater. Our laboratories are more advanced 
than that. In fact, theyre among the bestequipped in the world.
All we ask is that first-rate training youve had, 
and your restless, unsatisfied, curious mind that 
would wonder how to store an electric charge. 
Long before anyone knows what to do with one.
Thats what we need from you. What you 
need from us is opportunity. The chance to take 
chances. The worldwide scope of United
Technologies, its elevators and aircraft engines, 
spacesuits and silicon wafers, helicopters and 
heat pumps.
A place to grow in, with all rhe rewards that 
go with growth, and the company of 12,OCX) 
other engineers in all positions. We speak your 
language.
Shouldnt you take your inquiring mind to the 
campus placement office and inquire? Or write 
for more information and a reprint of this ad to 
United Technologies, P.O. Box 1379, Hartford, 
CT 06143.
UNITED 
TECHNOLOGIES
United Technologies means 
Pratt &. Whitney, Hamilton 
Standard, Otis, Carrier, 
Automotive Group, United 
Technologies Microelectronics 
Center, Norden, Chemical 
Systems, Essex, Sikorsky 
and United Technologies 
Research Center.
An equal opportunity 
employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 19, 1985
Student Senate minutes: Fall Budget Approval
Members Present:
Bett, Chu, Chun, Cohen, DeLeon, Flynn, 
Hynes, Jagerski, Kissner, A. Lee, K. Lee, Mur
phy, Mukherjee, Novak, Rocher, Taylor, 
Whysel, Lonsky, Appelbaum, Greenberg, 
Noesen, Cousineau, Lossing, Kombrek, Patnaik, Dean Cox
Members Absent:
Salomon, Kansak, Trampel
Funding and Recognition: Fall Budget 
Approval
Carnegie Involvement Association (CIA) 
$4,325
Chinese Student Organization $945 
Computer Club $2,007 
Emergency Medical Services $2,150 
Forbes Gallery $7,000 
Fringe $2,258
Macintosh Users' Group $2,273 
Mayur $540 
Oakland Review $1,695 
Robotics Club $4,295 
Rugby $1,334 
Scotch n Soda $2,063 
Shotokan Karate Club $195 
Sky-Diving $1,410 
Spirit $3,922 
Spring Carnival $8,870 
Sweepstakes $5,550 
Ultimate Frisbee Club $650
TOTAL $54,772
Any questions concerning these budgets 
should be directed to Dean Cox at x207S or 
x2074, or Tamal Mukherjee at the Senate of
fice, x2115.
SDC:
(1) PS AC meeting this week bring issues to 
Karen.
(2) Auxiliary Service move will be decided this 
week Karen will have info by Friday.
(3) Q; What happened to the Senate Auxilary 
Services Investigation committee?
A: There are membership problems. Any stu
dent Senator interested in serving on the 
Senate committee should contact Karen.
SDC:
(1) The RA exchange was a success and there 
will be a conference this weekend in Delaware.
(2) Ballet tickets are available for Dec. 22, 
and symphony tickets for Nov. 24.
(3) Alcohol awareness discussions were held 
at Morrison's this week. Upcoming events in
clude an assertiveness-training workshop, a timemanagement help session, and a massage clinic.
(4) Problems with vending are due to its be
ing understaffed. A security phone may be put 
in the MG D-Tower laundry room and the pro
blem with the front door to Welch will be look
ed into.
IFC:
No report.
Chairman:
(1) IFC rep Fred DeLeon was the only one 
to petition for the position of treasurer. He was 
accepted by acclamation.
(2) There will be a reception next week for 
new senators. As Mike graduates in December, 
this will be his last meeting as chairman. Best 
of luck to you.
Academic Affairs:
(1) The honor code got a front-page write
up but a retraction will be printed next week 
as it was not voted down as stated in The 
Tartan.
(2) An Educational Affairs Committee 
meeting will be held Tuesday about the possi
ble  grading system and the core curriculum.
(3) In place of a Deans List, CFA has an 
Honors List for any student receiving a QPA 
of 3.5 or higher.
Campus Affairs:
(1) The suggested pro rating system will be 
taken to the Parking Commission.
(2) The lithography studio is in poor condi
tion and has been posing a health hazard for 
some time due to chemicals and poor ventila
tion. The ceramics studio also is known to con
tain toxic dust. Karen will mention these pro
blems at the PSAC meeting.
(3) Reports to the committee include the leak
ing roof in the Alumni Concert Hall that is 
damaging instruments, the weightlifing im
provements discussed in previous weeks, and the 
possible elimination and cuts to Pell Grants.
Public Relations and Human Resources:
(1) Float meeting Monday.
(2) The committee needs manpower.
Old Business:
Concerning last years proposed changes to 
appeals process, sparked by what has come to 
be known at The ZBT Incident, have evolv
ed into an exploration of a possible intermediary 
appeals board. A committee has been formed 
to look into the feasibility of this.
New Business:
(1) Scotland Yard opens this weekmake the 
opening a success.
(2) Peter Cohen questioned the lack of 
publicity for Senate elections.
(3) Peter Lonsky suggested a Tartan ad 
recruiting help for the float.
Announcements:
Academic Affairs, Monday, 7:00.
Funding and Rec after this meeting.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:30 with best 
wishes to Mike in his continued success.
Quadriplegic Kim Cochran 
with son, Craig.
'Each day as I watch Craig grow,; I grow myself, in strength and confidence."
United vyby
DECORATE YOUR . SPACE
r with our PRINTS
20* off
with student I.D. 
everyday!
CAPI
|l 1 OJSTOM FRAMING SHOP
--------------------------------GALLERY Of PRINTS
323 Boulevard of the Allies, PiUburgh, PA 15222
412/281 2133
Monday thru Friday 8 45 to 5 30 Saturday 9 30 to 5 30
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 (412)687-1112
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT 
DIVISION
invites you to a 
presentation for students 
on
Artificial Intelligence Engineering 
Projects at Northrop
Thursday, November 21; 1985 
7:00 PM Room 12 
Skibo Hall
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 5
NORTH AMERICA INVESTMENT BANK
OPERATIONS AND SYSTEMS
MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM 
INFORMATION SESSION
CITICORP
Crime and Incident report
By DEBBIE YUE
Tartan Staffwriter
Tuesday November 5
(12:30 p.m.)  A CMU faculty member reported that his briefcase 
was stolen from his office in Hamerschlag Hall. It was later found in the 
Wean Hall PC clusters, but a few American Express Travelers Checks 
were missing from it.
Later that same evening, a Childrens Hospital security guard, while 
arresting a 24-year old black male for trespassing and assault resisting 
arrest, discovered the missing travelers checks on him, along with some 
credit cards that belonged to another CMU faculty member. After 
Childrens Hospital notified CMU, CMU security arrested him and charged 
him with the two thefts. He is currently awaiting his trial in a criminal 
court. This particular individual has been arrested by CMU on two other 
occasions in the past and has a criminal history in the Pittsburgh area. 
Thursday, November 7
(5:43 p.m.) A male CMU student attempted to remove some books 
from the Engineering and Science Library. The case has been turned 
over to the dean.
Friday, November 8 
(7:25 p.m.)  A student was caught trying to take a CMU parking 
lot sign. The case has been turned over to the dean.
Sunday, November 10
(3:17 a.m.)  A freshman room on the first floor of Mudge House 
was ransacked. Dresser drawers were found open, and the mattress in 
the room had been moved. The perpetrator apparently gained entry by 
breaking a window screen. Nothing was reported stolen.
(4:26 a.m.)  Two adjacent freshman rooms on the first floor of 
Hamerschlag House were ransacked. It is believed that the intruders might 
have entered through an unlocked window. Nothing was taken.
Monday, November 11 
(6:17 p.m.) A freshman apartment in the Marybelle Apartments was 
ransacked. A screen was broken. Nothing was taken.
The previous three ransacking incidents are currently being investigated 
by CMU security.
II
Student Senate reps 
elected for Spring term
By A.E. GREEN
Special to The Tartan
Student Senate held its semester elections 
for student representatives from CMUs six 
schools on November 12 and 13 in Grey 
Matter.
Incumbent senator Cherie Jagerski led the 
race for Carnegie Institute of Technology 
seats with 96 votes. Evan McDonnell, with 
91 votes, Myles Greenberg with 75, and 
Edward Welsh with 73 votes took the re
maining three seats.
Humanities and Social Sciences repre
sentative Uday Patnaik returned to Senate 
on 65 votes, with the two remaining seats go
ing to Steve Volan and Allen Greenberg with 
63 votes and 59 votes, respectively.
The Mellon College of Sciences four seats 
went to Maria Cousineau with 78 votes, 
followed by Cindy Taylor with 76 votes, Seth 
Kaplan with 65 votes, and Toby Ayre with 
12 votes.
Chrissy Hynes with 20 votes and Bob Boll
inger with 12 took the two open seats for the 
College of Fine Arts.
Elections for seats in the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration and the School 
of Urban and Public Affairs resulted in 
three-way ties which will be broken at 
tonights Student Senate meeting.
Help bring the world together. 
Host an exchange student
International Youth Exchange, a Presi
dential Initiative for peace, brings teenagers 
from other countries to live for a time with 
American families and at
tend American schools 
Learn about partici
pating as a 
host family.
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE 
Pueblo, Colorado 81009
The International Youth Exchange.
Date: November 21, 1985 
Time: 7-9 p.m.
Place: More wood Rec Room 
Morewood Gardens 
Carnegie-Mellon

---------------------------------------------------

fdit Bata fraltery Chart f ormt(
Bata
ope...
Close
Crash of 1929
Crash of 1929|Saue 
Sane fls
Crash of 1929
[Order: 11 1
m Plot Seriesilfll
92fc t927
\92S1929
950
)92t 1922 1923 1924 1925 t926 927 92 t9
NOW Available at the
Macintosh 512K $1,560 
Macintosh 128K $1,160 
upgrade to 512 K $410 
Extra Drive $350
CMU Computer Store:
Imagewriter $430 
LaserWriter $4,500 
Imagewriter II* $460
Make the crash of 29 look good
With a MacintoshTyou can make anything That's just one example of how Macintosh 
look good. Whether it be term papers, thesis papers helps students work smarter, quicker and more
or presentations. creatively. And the beauty of Macintosh is, you
Because with programs like Microsoft " dont have to know diddley about computers to
Chart, wtaher youre drawing charts or drawing use one.
conclusions, you can combine text and graphics The point being, a Macintosh
to illustrate your ideas like theyve never been can make a lot of things look good,
illustrated before. Including you.
 NKS \f.ple Qmiputer. Inc Apple and the Applt logo are registered trademarks erf Apple Gmiputer. Inc. Macintosh is a trademark of Mdniosh I jhoratory Inc. and is heinR used with its express permission.Micnsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
*not yet available

---------------------------------------------------

Page2Thr
The United Nations at forty
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Forty years ago the United Nations form
ed in an effort to establish an arena for pro
moting world peace. Among the U.N. 
founders was Donald Stone, adjunct pro
fessor in the School of Urban Affairs at 
CMU. Today, Stone is one of the last two sur
viving members of the original delegation 
that proposed the U.N. Charter back in 
1945.
With the media focusing attention on the 
U.N.s 40th Anniversary this year, it is a time
ly opportunity to evaluate and assess the 
need for world safety organizations such as 
the U.N. According to Professor Stone, the 
need for the U.N. is greater now than ever. 
He said, If were going to live together on 
this globe, weve got to have something like 
the U.N.
The continued existence of the U.N. 
should be of prime concern to students, since 
future world peace depends on good rela
tions between countries. And, because the 
U.N. is the worlds meeting ground for in
ternational affairs, it should be expanded to 
adapt to changing times.
Stone said that although the U.N. has im
proved the living conditions of some coun
tries and the relations between others, the 
the U.N. has lost the United States respect. 
Stone feels that the U.N.s loss of respect is 
partially due to its behavior on the interna
tional scene and partially due to its actions 
concerning foreign policies. Stone said, It 
(the U.N.) has lost respect from other coun
tries because the U.S. makes unilateral deci
sions and asks other countries to support 
them. No matter how the U.N. appears to
the public, it remains an important vehicle 
for communication between countries.
Abolishing the threat of war has always 
been the paramount concern of the U.N. To
day, we not only face the threat of conven
tional war, but we face the threat of absolute
destruction and extinction from a nuclear 
war. The summit currently being held in 
Geneva is just one example of world leaders 
converging to promote peaceful world rela
tions. In a recent television address President 
Reagan spoke of the need for global
cooperation through joint reductions in 
I nuclear arms.
There are other international problems 
that deserve the consideration and attention 
of safety organizations. For instance, Pro
fessor Stone proposed that the U.N. establish 
a special court to handle the problem of ter
rorism. Recent violent terrorist acts against 
Americans abroad, such as the brutal 
murder of cruise-ship passenger Leon 
Clinghoffer, brings terrorist action into the 
media spotlight and prompts action from 
the U.S. Obviously, something must be done 
to protect American citizens in foreign coun
tries and Stone proposes a U.N. coalition of 
countries determined to work together 
against terrorism.
On a smaller scale, University students are 
joining together to battle the impending 
world threats such as war, loss of freedom, 
terrorism, and poverty. One such group of 
students at CMU, the CMU Peace Alliance, 
is currently focusing its campaign against 
nuclear war. The Peace Alliance held a talk 
about Soviet-American relations on the eve 
of the summit on Thursday, November 14, 
in Baker Hall. The Peace Alliance would 
like to educate students on important global 
issues and have students take an active stand 
on the issues. The Peace Alliance is just one 
organization available to students concern
ed with knowing more about world affairs.
Students should be especially concerned 
with the status of foreign relations. After all, 
the disruption of world peace is the disrup
tion of our future. Education and participa
tion on the part of the students can help pur
sue the quest for world peace.
Problems at the payroll office
By JEFF HENDRIX
Tartan Staffwriter
It is possible that a student could actually 
go for eight weeks without being properly 
paid on account of an antiquated payroll
system?
People turn and look at each other befuddledly and say, Nooo. Cant be, This is 
Computer U. With all of the high tech 
capability that we have here at CarnegieMellon, how could something like this hap
pen? Well, it has and maybe it has happen
ed to you, because, according to Jim 
Boshears, the Payroll Supervisor, It happens 
all the time.
The unfortunate student in this case is 
David Thompson a sophomore chemistry 
major who holds down work-study jobs with 
two colleges, MCS and H&SS. It all started 
with his first pay, September sixth, for his 
work as a teaching assistant for the Introduc
tion to Computing course and research assis
tant for Paul Karol, the Associate Dean of 
MCS. The pay was supposed to be $315. 
Thompson had mailed several checks on 
that Friday morning, thinking that he would 
get paid that day. However, after hours of 
frustrated efforts, Thompson finally receiv
ed a check for only $75, which he returned.
His problem was that he works for two 
different departments, and one of the 
departments neglected to turn in the time 
card on time, so he didnt get paid, says 
Boshears. However, according to Thompson, 
his time cards had been sent in and Person
nel lost his Personnel Action Notice (PAN) 
and told him that he wasnt on the payroll.
Departments may send over the time 
card with a roster, but if that person isnt on 
the payroll system when we check the com
puter, then they cant be paid, says 
Boshears. In his case there was a combina
tion of reasons. Backing off of his previous 
statement about the time card, Boshears 
added, We may have had the time card.
There was a communications problem. Here 
all we do is put together information that 
comes in from the departments. In most 
companies this is centralized.
The following Monday Thompson receiv
ed a check for $275 and thought that things 
would now be straightened out. But the next 
pay period Thompson once again received 
no pay. He was supposed to get $65, but 
Payroll was trying to recollect the $275 that 
it had just paid him, when actually they still 
owed him $40. Prior to this pay period 
Thompson says that he and the department 
had asked what was needed to do, and Per
sonnel has said that nothing needed to be 
done. After I failed to receive my pay again, 
I talked to Jim Boshears and he said the 
secretary didnt reprocess the time card. But 
we had called three times and they had told 
us there was nothing to do.
Thompsons pay continued to be a pro
blem and was only recently corrected. One 
time H&SS didnt turn in a time card, but 
by this time I didnt know what I was sup
posed to be getting. I guess I put in about 
20 hours trying to get my payroll situation 
correct. The last pay period was the first one 
that was correct. Credit for this must be 
given to Boshears, who personally looked in
to matters.
However, Thompson is not the only per
son to have missed a paycheck because of 
some error. One time the faculty didnt get 
paid, because the departments didnt send 
in the paperwork, says Boshears. With the 
University Dining Service (UDS) its prac
tically a yearly event, because they are con
sistently late with turning in their PANs. But 
Joan Holzman, the Student Employees 
Records Coordinator in Financial Aid, says 
that this year UDS got their paperwork in 
on time.
Every September the PANs have to go 
through the financial aid office. According 
to Boshears, Holzman has to process about
m-h
1800 to 2000 of them in a week-and-a-half, 
a lot of paperwork for a school thats so in
volved with computers. I have support 
whenever theres a crunch, says Holzman. 
Ill have help from a couple of work-studies 
and my supervisor.
Boshears mentions that they can now roll 
information directly from the budget into 
the payroll system, but this procedure only 
covers the stafffaculty and students still 
have to submit PANs.
The present payroll program is old it 
was purchased in 1978. So why doesnt the 
University buy a new payroll program? 
Were always looking at new payroll systems, 
and the University will be upgrading to a 
new system in the future, says Boshears. It 
has to be worked into the budget, and right 
now it appears that the addition to Skibo 
and the new gymnasium will get priority 
over this.

---------------------------------------------------

s snow covers the English countryside, the great dining halls of medieval castles are filled with the sights, sounds, and aromas of preparation for the Madrigal Feast. Yuletide in 16th century England is a busy, happy occasion with celebrants gathering holly, ivy, and pine to decofate the tables, musicians rehearsing, and cooks preparing the traditional boar's head dinner, complete with the festive wassail bowl and flaming plum pudding.But the food is not all that fills the evening with the joy that it brings. The Jester and jugglers practice their trades. The magicians prepare their newest feats of magical skill. The dancers perfect their routines. The singers choose their festive songs.All of this ceremony and more will be brought to Camegie-Mellon University as the third annual Madrigal Feast is held in the Great Dining Hall ofSkibo Castle. The Office of student Activities the Department of Music invite you to join the lords and ladies, Renaissance musicians and Madrigal singers, jugglers and magicians for this festive occasion on Friday, December 6. Dress in your best 16th or 20th century finery and join us for a Renaissance feast served in the candlelit Skibo Ballroom.
Menu:Location:Information:
Until SoupApple and Nut SaladRoast Baron of BeefPan Roasted Potatoes with SkinsFresh Green Beans with MushroomsIndividual BreadsChoice of BeverageFruits and Nuts
6:00 pm Reception - Skibo Lobby 7:00 pm Dinner - Skibo Ballroom
Price:
$9.00 non CMU students $7.00 CMU studentspartial credit will be given to contract holders; total amount may be deducted from Validine account$4.50 children
Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk Thursday, November 21-December 5. (Monday through Friday (9:00 am-5:00 pm)
Entertainment will be provided by the Camegie-Mellon University Chamber Choir and friends. Guests are invited to wear traditional clothe.
Sponsored by the Office Of Student Activities. For more information, call 578-2107, Monday through Friday 9:00 am-5;00 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 9
A satirical examination of finals week
By MITCHELL REICHGUT
Tartan Staffwriter
It all starts suddenlywithout any big 
fuss. One day youre going about your 
business, lets say a Tuesday. Youve just taken 
a Stats exam and your day is more or less 
over. So you take a deep breath and grab an 
issue of The Tartan to take back to your 
dorm. You plop your books down and lay 
back as you start to flip through the paper. 
All of the sudden there it is! It hits you hard 
and unrelenting. You knew it was coming 
but not so soon! It is the inevitable Finals 
Schedulethe master death list for all CMU 
students. You dont want to look at it, but 
you know you must. You spot your first test, 
not bad you think nervously, its on the 
10th. Then you see the second, on the 
twelfth, hmmm maybe that will be the last 
one. You hope against hope as you search 
for the other classes, theres one...rats its on 
the 14th...oh no! You found the last test, 
its your worst class and guess what day it 
is Friday the 13 th.
The paper falls from your limp, pale 
hand. You sit back and stare up at the ceil
ing for an indefinite amount of time. All 
sorts of crazy thoughts begin flying through 
your head. You see your Stats professor sit
ting on a dark throne laughing as he looks 
down at you and points to Friday the 13th
on the calendar. Wait, you have to get a grip, 
finals are weeks away! Thats right, you have 
plenty of time to study and to catch up in 
all your classes. You relax, and for now the 
terror is gone. After all, youve gone through 
this beforeno problem. So time goes by. 
The finals schedule is now just another thing 
cluttering your bulletin board. Once in a 
while you look up at it and get a small chill 
in your spine, but for the most part youve 
accepted it and learned to deal with it. Then 
one day you wake up and realize that you 
only have two days until your first test! Panic 
sets in. You look at your schedule, read your 
notes, call your friends, call your parents, go 
to the library, and eat a pop tart. Nothing 
helps, but you feel better that you tried so 
you call it a day and go to sleep.
The next morning you wake up a bit late. 
Everything is all right, you have the entire 
day to study, and the entire night. No pro
blem. You shower and then get something 
to eat. After you return you look at your 
study notes on your desk and decide that 
your room could really use some tidying. So 
you make your bed, straighten your desk, 
listen to the radio for a while, and then you 
make your roommates bed.
It is getting pretty late in the afternoon 
now, and you are beginning to realize that 
you are avoiding studying. So you take a
KDKA Radio Station
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
It is time for an addition to the selec
tor knob on your stereo. Youve got your FM 
and your FM stereo and your AM. Now you 
may want AM stereo as well. On November 
2, 1920, KDKA made the first broadcast by 
a commercially licensed radio station. For 
eighteen hours, they covered the election 
returns of the Harding-Cox Presidential 
election. In a recent interview with a cur
rent KDKA announcer, Leo Rosenberg, who 
was the announcer of the original KDKA 
broadcast said, At that time, all radio was 
done by ham operators talking back and 
forth to each other. People would use a 
tuner, a piece of wire wrapped around a 
Quaker Oats box, and a crystal detec
tor. . . and they would look for new stations. 
We knew a number of people would pick up 
KDKA by this roundabout method. 
KDKA followed this historic first broad
cast with many other innovations 
throughout the early twenties, including the 
first broadcast of a Presidents innaugural 
address, made by Warren G. Harding in 
March 1921. They were also the first to 
broadcast live sporting events, with play-by
plays of baseball and football games.
KDKA is owned by the Westinghouse cor
poration. The general manager of the 
station, Rick Starr, believes that KDKA has 
continued to lead the broadcasting world 
because of the technical expertise of Dr. 
Frank Conrad of Westinghouse, who 
founded KDKA. Starr points out that, Dr. 
Conrads experiments with the electro
magnetic spectrum led to radar, static-free 
FM radio, television, and low-power long 
distance communications.
After 65 years of being in Pittsburgh, 
KDKA is something of an institution in the 
city and is still setting the standards for the 
radio industry, this time with AM stereo.
TRAM WTIH THE NUCLEAR MDUSimTS 
LEADER, AM) YOU COUII) END UP 
LEADMGTHEMDUSTRY
Over half the nuclear reactors in America are operated by one orj^nization. The Navy The technology is the most advanced in tne world. The men in charge are the industry's best, niat's  hv the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Otficer Candidacy program is
;e juniors and seniors who qualify lor the program can earn S 1,000 a month II in school. In addition, you get a $3.000 bonus upon entrance into the . an additional S3.000 when you complete your Naval studies
the most sophisticated training available It has to Be College juniors while still 'program, --------------------------------,  . . . , .And. as an officer in today* Nuclear Navy, you receive a. year o! paid graduate-level training gaining the experience and credentials that can put you at the loreiront ot the nuclear industry.You must be a U.S. citizen. 26*/j vears of age or younger upon commissioning, working toward a bachelor's or master's degree. You must also have completed a minimum of one year each ol calculus and calculus-based physics wuh a B average or
So if youVe started thinking about a career in the nuclear field, think about starting at the top. You can apply after vour sophomore year. Call Navy Management Programs for more information: 4i2/644-6435.
Representative on campus December 4.
In PA call toll-free 1-800-242-6289. In OH, WV, and MD call toll-free 
1-800-245-1772.
NAVY 0FFKBIS GET RESP0NSBHITY MSI
deep breath, crack your knuckles, sharpen 
your pencil, and then go to Entropy to get 
a snack. That night is sheer hell! Cramm
ing and more cramming mixed with panic 
and an uncontrollable urge to order pizzas. 
It is the beginning. After that point you 
know you are in the twilight zone. Finals
week has arrived, and you are a helpless
victim. Your mind and your body will be 
subject to many forms of abuse. So you sit 
back, blink your eyes a few times, and think 
to yourself that joining a circus is not such 
a bad option after all.
ON CAMPUS
Members of Our Technical Staff 
December 5,1985
Research challenges for PhD/MS graduates with interests in
 Machine Intelligence
 VLSI
 Image Processing
 Signal Processing
 Optics
 Digital Systems Design
 Satellite Communications
 Microelectronics
To arrange an interview, contact your Placement Office or send your resume to Marilyn L. Bodnar, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, 244 Wood Street, Lexington, MA 02173 (617-863-5500, ext. 7050). U.S. Citizenship required.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
Lincoln Laboratory
UPGRADE
Unlock the potential of your Macintosh by increasing its 
memory to 512Kb. Expand the capabilities of your current 
software. Take advantage of powerful titles like Jazz, 
Excel, Switcher, ect... Our high quality upgrade is 100% 
compatible with Apple's, comes with a 120 day warranty, 
and costs only $225. Call 683-6244 for more information.
KAMQUEST
SYSTEMS

---------------------------------------------------

Hitlerism 
and the 
Holocaust
Lecture
Wednesday 
November 20 
8-00 pm 
Skibo Ballroom
DISCOVER IP. 
THE FEELING!
THE MUNICIPALITY OF METROPOLITAN TORONTO
Forbes Travel and Professional Women on Campus
present
Join us in a Holiday Shopping Weekend!

SPECIAL PACKAGE TO TORONTO INCLUDES:
* Round trip air fare via USAirDeparting Dec. 7th (Sat.) and 
returning Dec. 8th (Sun.)
* Accommodations at the lively superior first-class hotel The 
HOTEL PLAZA II (sister to the Park Plaza.)
* Round trip airport transfers.
*City sightseeing tour.
$149.00 TOTAL per person, double occupancy.
For further information and reservationsFORBES TRAVEL SERVICE 
5875 FORBES AVENUEPITTSBURGH, PA 15217 (412) 521-7300
THE
|lOJ
P
IZZA
IN
OAKLAND
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 11
CMU's Super Security Guard "Betty
//
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Contributing Editor
Six years ago, Betty Moesleins husband 
died unexpectedly of a massive heart attack. 
Her daughter, Donna Kadlecik, was five 
months pregnant. Donnas husband had left 
her. There was little money in the bank. Pitt
sburgh was in the throes of recession.
Moeslein says her husband was a good 
man, the type who was a provider and 
pillar of strength for his family. He never 
complained, and he had no problems before 
the heart attack, says Moeslein. It seemed 
things would go on like that forever. How
ever, an unexpected death left Moeslein 
and her family without the head of the 
household they had lived with for so long.
My daughter wanted to go out and get a 
job, recalls Moeslein. But I didnt think she 
should in her condition. So it was up to 
Moeslein to put on the table the food that 
her husband had been putting there for so 
long.
She applied for cleaning jobs, but the 
employers wanted people from their own 
neighborhoods. She applied at drug stores, 
but they never got back to her. She applied 
at Gimbels, but she didnt have retail ex
perience. She applied as a camp cop, but 
she didnt have the security training. She ap
plied everywhere for seven months and didnt 
get a job.
Meanwhile, Bettina Kadlecik, Moesleins 
granddaughter, was bom with a urinary 
tract infection that was to last in its acute 
state for two years. Caring for her daughter 
was a full-time job, ending all prospects that 
Donna could add to the family income. It 
also created new expenses. We wanted to 
give her the best of care. I dont know what 
Id do without her. Shes a real special kid, 
says Moeslin. So they took her to several 
specialists and to Childrens Hospital. But 
the money was running out. We were just 
about cleaned out of our savings, says 
Moeslein.
Thats when Moeslein heard from a friend 
that CMU was looking for a security monitor 
at the gym. Security Chief Robert Fadzen 
and Athletic Director James Banner need
ed someone who could get along well with 
the people who used the gym and help re
duce the incidence of break-ins at the facili
ty. I think they wanted an older woman, 
says Moeslin. And I guess that was me.
Since she was hired, there has only been 
one serious incident. The gym had been 
broken into several times during Moesleins 
lunch hour, so she changed her break in an 
effort to catch the suspect. I was on my 
rounds one day when I saw a man in the 
locker room. He was trying to hide from me, 
and I asked him What are you up to?, 
Moeslein remembers. She immediately 
radioed for back-up help. The prowler was 
caught and, there hasnt been any 
remarkable trouble at the gym since. We 
have a darned good security force here and 
a real good chief, exclaims Moeslein.
She also feels she is capable of doing the 
job in an emergency. If she were to see a stu
dent being attacked while on her rounds, I 
would radio in right away, then Id go up and 
try to stop it, she says. I have confidence 
because I know I wouldnt be alone for long. 
Our campus police respond real quickly 
Moeslein does not carry a gun as a security 
monitor, although she is equipped with 
mace.
Since Moeslein started her job at CMU, 
Bettinas infection has improved con
siderably, Donna has gotten a part-time job 
(as soon as her daughter went to school), and 
the financial situation has stabilized 
somewhat. We eat well, and I pay the bills. 
I make good money here, Moeslein says.
She also likes her job at the gym. I love 
security workalways did. The people who 
come into the gym and the people who work 
here are all so interesting.
There are only two things Moeslein likes 
better than her work, the first of which is 
her granddaughter. The grandmother brags, 
Shes such a comic. Just the things she says 
are enough to crack you up. Like the other 
day she saw me take my time card and 
punch in. And she says to me Boy Grand
ma, you have a good report card. Bettinas 
report card is also good. So far she has won 
three awards with her good grades.
She loves Bettina so much, in fact, that 
in her spare time she does volunteer security 
work at the Arlington Elementary School. 
She got involved in the program in response 
to a letter from the principal expressing con
cern for the safety of the children in the 
morning before school and during recess. 
With me and the other guards there, 
nobodys going to come up and grab one of 
the kids. I think its a good program, ex4>FIND YOUR PLACE 
IN THE SKY
If you have the talent, ambition and determination to become part of an elite group, you may have what it takes to meet the challenge of the 
infinite frontier...the sky.
Air Force pilots are a unique breed. They accomplish and experience things that are beyond the grasp of most people. They know the exhilaration of flying sophisticated multi million dollar aircraft that are 
on the leading edge of technology.
In addition, we can offer good starting pay with regular increases, complete medical and dental care, educational opportunities including college tuition, and 30 days of vacation with pay every year.
If you would like to share the skies with a very special group of people, please contact :
TSgt. Dale Patterson at 
<412)644-2705
AIR
Security Guard Betty Moeslein at the
plains Moeslein. Moeslein intends to con
tinue doing the work after Bettina leaves 
Arlington. I enjoy the work so much. I just 
love kids, says Moeslein.
The other passion Moeslein indulges in is 
dancing. I just love to dance, she exclaims. 
It doesnt matter what the occasion  
weddings or whatever. I just love to dance.
gymphoto by Olve Peersen
The economic success Moeslein has 
achieved has given her a ch?.nce to look to 
the future. I wont be getting married again. 
My husband was the man for me, Moeslein 
has decided. Besides, my life is fulfilled. My 
family is everything to me. I dont know what 
Id do without them. But what would they 
do without her?
Bring  A  Friend 
get a 
FREE SiSSIOM
FORCE
A flreat way of life.
EVERYONE KNOWS BRONZE IS BEAUTIFUL! 
HAVE A RICH DARK TAN ALL YEAR ROUND
FREE TANNING SESSION 
By Appointment only 
Offer Expires Nov. 30,1985
Also available by appointment: Manicure  Pedicure  
Facials  Therapeutic Massage
5850 Forward Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
422-8266/422-TANN
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANCER ? CAREER DOUBTS
 FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS  
SEXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS
 LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPINC OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you. psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you arc interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy ARA a skiing fee scale, caR 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized
JL
Can Tel-Aid 
at
281-4664 Tape *6006 
For a preview of 
who we are and 
what we do
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 
211 H Wh*fld St. Pittsburgh, Pa. 1S2Q* A prrvste clink in the public service

---------------------------------------------------

 91 v in 1SMWS
Scotland Yard 
Open
Thursday, Friday, Saturday
7 p.m.2 a.m.
.. *>-k' i. '  :  & * -v. -f  \i/-

---------------------------------------------------

By ELLEN RILOFF and ERIK HARE
Special to The Tartan
The Man With the Golden Flute, James 
Galway, is an entertainer as well as a master 
of the classical flute. His almost narrative 
style of presenting himself in full eye con
tact with each member of the audience in 
turn is certainly unique. This, along with his 
expressive ability, made for a personal and 
enjoyable evening of classical music.
Galway did not seem to enjoy conducting 
nearly as much as he enjoyed performing on 
the flute. The performance of Mendelssohns 
Hebrides Overture, while still solid, opened 
a bit fast and was marked by wide discrepan
cies between the tempo taken and what the 
composer called for. There were moments, 
however, where the subtle, mystic intensity 
of the piece came through admirably, and 
Galway seemed to commune better with the 
ensemble at these times. Although Galways 
conducting ability was technically perfect, 
the fire and involvement of his playing was 
quite noticeably missing.
After a short pause while Galway fetched 
his flute from backstage, the audience was 
treated to the virtuosity for which he is 
known. He continued the concert with 
Mozarts Flute Concerto in D Major, K. 314, 
in which the audience could share in his love 
of the flute and of this concerto. In this 
piece, one of the more famous flute concerti, Galway demonstrated the liveliness and 
vigor which are essential to Mozarts works.
While the first movement was performed 
brilliantly, there was a slight tendency to 
drag in the second movement. This may 
have been attributable to his lyrical style; 
however his attempts to conduct the tempo 
back up during passages without solo sug
gest that the fault may have been with the 
orchestra at large. This was negligible andJames Galway, perhaps the greatest flutist alive, delighted Carnegie Hall last Wednesday.
Is it the end for The Stainless Steel Rat?
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Rat is back. The Stainless Steel Rat 
that is, that bank robber, con man and 
extra-legal entrepreneur of the distant 
future. A Stainless Steel Rat is Bom is Harry 
Harrisons sixth and supposedly last book 
about the adventures of James Bolivar Slip
pery Jim diGriz, self-styled folk hero, the 
Bishop. After Jim rescues The Bishop from 
one of the most popular characters in science 
fiction.
This volume takes us back to the beginn
ing of Slippery Jims career. On the placid 
world of Bit OHeaven, a kind of galactic 
Columbus, Ohio, farm boy and juvenile 
delinqent Jim diGriz seeks out the mysterious 
and elusive master of crime known as The 
Bishop. After Jim rescues The Bishop from 
the long arm of the law, the grateful archcriminal schools Jim in the ways of his craft, 
teaching him what he needs to know to 
become a stainless steel rat, scurrying 
through the cracks and crevices of the 
futures technologized, computerized and 
bureaucratized society.
The novels nearly random, roller-coaster 
plot takes us from Jims home world to the 
planet Spiovente, a thoroughly unpleasant 
world with an anarchic culture, wretched 
cuisine, and such holidays as Wormfeast 
Day. Caught in a struggle between feuding 
warlords, Slippery Jim manages of course to 
come out alive and make some easy money 
along the way.
A Stainless Steel Rat is Bom is tongue-incheek action-adventure, somewhere between 
straight space opera and off-the-wall Hit
chhikers Guide to the Galaxy-type parody, 
with lines like Get out here, he shouted, 
scratching his head so hard that a shower 
of dandruff sparkled in the sunbeam amid 
the outrageous action. Harrisons efforts at 
social satire are rather middle-brow; Bit 
OHeaven boasts a chain of automated fastfood restaurants that specialize in burgers 
made from mutant porcuswine beast  
the chain is called Macswineys and is 
heralded by beckoning platinum arches. 
A Stainless Steel Rat is Bom is a silly, 
mindless book, but good-natured, fastpaced and a lot of fun. If you like dry wit 
and adventure that doesnt take itself too 
seriously, then you might not mind letting
the Rat infest your imagination. And hey, 
its in paperback, so those of us who dont 
go robbing banks like Slippery Jim can af
ford it.
was compensated for by his warm, poetic 
style. The third movement once again show
ed the fun that Galway can have with a lively 
piece of music.
After a brief intermission, Galway played 
a representative piece of the Mannheim 
school of composing, the Flute Concerto in 
G Major by Carl von Stamitz. While this 
work was distinguished more by form than 
style as compared to Mozart, Galway made 
the piece come alive. His technique was im
peccable throughout the entire perfor
mance, and his expression brought to this 
work an elegance beyond the staid simplici
ty of Classical era music.
Galway got another chance to 
demonstrate his conducting ability in the 
final piece, Mozarts Symphony -29 in A ma
jor, K. 201. He obviously enjoyed leading 
Mozart much more, since he was able to let 
his movements flow with the music this time 
around. His lyricism sometimes got the bet
ter of him, though, and he tended to roman
ticize the melodic passages to a great extent. 
The overall effect, however, was a more ex
pressive and personal style that radiated 
warmth and feeling to an appreciative 
audience.
In reponse to a standing ovation, Galway 
answered his own question, Have you had 
your daily Bach today? by playing the 
Badinerie from J.S. Bachs Suite in B Minor. 
A cute and lively work, it once again let 
Galway show off his remarkable technique. 
As a final encore, Galway chose a work by 
The national composer of Ireland, a fellow 
called Anon., known as Brian Borus 
March after the great Irish king. This was 
typical of the fun-loving spirit and en
thusiasm which has made Galway famous.
We had an opportunity to speak with 
Galway about his conducting after the per
formance. When asked about whether or not 
he intends to continue conducting, he 
replied, A little here, a little there. Keeps 
ya from gooin stale in th business. From 
this it would seem that his reputation for ver
satility is well founded, and we certainly wish 
him the best.
CMU prof at Hemingway's
By JOHN KENNEY
Special to the Tartan
Unlike most barroom crowds, the large 
gathering that filled the back room of Hem
ingways in Oakland last Tuesday night was 
strangely silent. Drinks temporarily forgot
ten, those present listened and waited. Jim 
Daniels, poet and assistant professor of 
English at CMU, was about to give a reading 
of his work.
After settling onto his stool, he opened with, 
a humorous piece entitled At the Poetry
Forrealism at Forbes Gallery
Random Rock
When Alice Cooper (real name Vin
cent Fumier) was in grade school, he 
wore a suit and carried a brief case to 
school.
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Louis Aruelo, Page Darrow, and Smith 
Hutchings will be showing paintings, draw
ings, collages, and sculpture during For
realism, which will be in the Forbes Gallery 
from November 19 to November 24. For
realism opens tonight at 7:00 p.m.; refresh
ments will be served.
The CMU Writers Guild will be sponsor
ing a Reading at Forbes on Thursday, 
November 21 at 7:00 p.m. Tom Dugan will be 
reading some of his short stories, and John 
Feins and David Yezzi will be reading poetry. 
Refreshments are also served during the 
Readings at Forbes.
Louis Aruelo lists Mondrian and the Rus
sian suprematists among his influences. His 
non-representational paintings make special 
use of color and shape, defining themselves 
with their very sharp, crisp lines. He assures 
us that the dates he chooses for the titles of
his paintings and drawings are very 
significant.
Page Darrows paintings, on the other 
hand, are recognizable depictions of their 
subject. The paintings that will be in the 
Forbes Gallery this week show a bedroom 
window; their odd perspective and distortion 
of color and shape both contrast and form 
links between the inner world of the 
bedroom the leaves and glimpses of sky out
side the window. Page will also be showing 
drawings and sculpture for Forrealism.
Smith Hutchings is showing collages of 
paper, photographs, and paint on plates of 
glass. His collages make use of layers of 
familiar images, such as the Statue of Liber
ty, to comment upon the other elements in 
the work. The results are often witty and 
amusing, often frightening. Whether you 
regard them as amusing or all too true, its 
difficult to ignore words like Im in love with 
a moron/ouch.
Reading, a collection of some of the unusual 
things said at such readings, Daniels began 
in earnest. Speaking softly but clearly into 
the microphone, his voice colored by a 
strong Michigan accent, he seemed slightly 
nervous, but all the more honest as a result.
Starting off with a group of poems that 
dealt with his early days in his home town 
of Detroit, Daniels read three groups in all. 
The second group centered on Daniels fic
tional character Digger, and the last describ
ed the poetic side of the workplace.
These poems covered a lot of ground, 
ranging from such pieces as Denim Jackets 
and Black Gloves, which captured the 
rebellious spiritand the accompanying 
frustration  of a blue collar teen, to the Dig
ger poems, which told of the life of a middleaged, hard-nosed Detroiter who, after a few 
beers, can solve all the Lions problems.
Daniels poems spoke of love, death and 
family as well. Perhaps the best among them 
was My Grandfathers Tools, a powerful 
piece about death in this blue-collar world, 
in which Daniels told of how his grandfather, 
who showed the engineers how things really 
worked and whose old Packard still runs 
despite all logic has grown old. I smell death 
in his hands; already dirt is gone from under 
his nails.
Typical of all the pieces Daniels read, this 
poem was filled with striking imagery and 
was charged with emotion, yet subtly so; it 
was never overstated.
Daniels provided a meaningful evening, 
not just for poetry enthusiasts, but for 
everyone.
Entertainment.
The magic flute of James Galway in concert

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 19, 1985
Senior Rep: An Evening with Georges Feydeau
By JONATHAN STEELE
Tartan Staffwriter
The second half of the 1985 Senior Rep 
program is An Evening With Georges 
Feydeau, three one-acts by the master of 
French farce. The Senior Rep is a new no
tion in CMUs Drama department, and it 
seems to be off to a fine start. The talented 
Senior Class has balanced the dark, despair
ing post-World War I tones of Odon von 
Horvaths Tales from the Vienna Woods with 
the bright, bubbly champagne of the preWorld War I Feydeau farces. The juxtaposi
tion of the two shows illuminates the change 
in attitude and world view from the turn of 
the century pre-War world of Paris, to the 
Depression era of post-War Vienna. Europes 
spiritual decimation due to the Great War 
is visibly presented in this pairing.
Feydeaus mastery of the farce form is evi
dent in the three plays selected for this even
ing. In the first, Romance in A Flat, he takes 
a situation of mistaken identity and cross 
purposes, and gets every ounce of humor 
possible. His use of asides gives an almost 
modern feel to this early comedy, written in 
1886.
The second play, Caught With His Trance 
Down, was a preposterous concoction involv
ing hypnosis, mesmerism, Sigmund Freud, 
and servants turning the tables on masters. 
Once you accept the premise that the butler 
can hypnotize his master on a moments 
notice, the fun is off and running. Overall, 
this was the most well done of the three 
Senior Rep one-acts.
The final piece was Tooth or Conse
quences, or Hortense said: No Skin off my 
Ass. This was a sketch set in a dentists of
fice. The dentists domestic difficulties
mount in complexities, and he takes out his 
frustrations on his patients in very funny 
scenes that are evocative of every nightmare 
you ever had about going to the dentist.
Director Anthony McKay did a fine job 
in pulling all the disparate elements of this 
production together. Getting the sense of 
polished farce is a challenging proposition 
under any circumstances, and the Feydeau 
farces were written with clown/character 
prototypes redolent of centuries-old skills 
and traditions. Stock character types and 
comic servants go back to the ancient Greeks 
and Romans, but we rarely see them any 
more in the modem theatre. Still, the inter
pretations and comic timing produced an
On Thursday, November 21, Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers will celebrate the grand re
opening of the Fulton Theatre as a showcase 
for quality American and foreign films. 
Opening night festivities will inaugurate 
Filmmakers at the Fulton and will honor 
documentaran Tony Buba and animator 
Paul Glabicki, two independent filmmakers 
whose work has received national recogni
tion. A special screening at 8:00 p.m. of 
Bubas and Glabeckis work will highlight the 
evening.
Special guests who will share in the 
festivities will be the prestigious screenwriter 
and television producer, Abby Mann and the 
Director of the American Film Institute, 
Jean Firstenberg.
Funded by the Howard Heinz Endow
ment, Filmmakers at the Fulton is a pro
gram of Pittsburgh Filmmakers produced in
evening filled with laughs, and the audience 
left pleased and satisfied.
Overall the Senior Rep performances were 
solid. In Romance in A Flat, Lynn Clark, the 
innocent young miss, and Craig Waletzko, 
the bumbling country lothario, cashed in on 
numerous laughs. In the second play, 
Caught With His Trance Down, the entire! 
cast made a complicated sketch, revolving 
around a preposterous conception of hyp
nosis, work quite well. Robert A. Woronoff 
as Boriquet, Thomas Mills Wood as Justin, 
and Court Whisman as Valencourt were 
standouts, while Marcus Lovett, Therese 
Barr and Anne Altieri were also good.
The final piece, replete with a perfectly 
chilling dentist chair, got some big laughs.
cooperation with the Pittsburgh Trust for 
Cultural Resources. Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
has served as a center for film production, 
education, and exhibitions programs since 
its founding in 1971. The inauguration of 
Filmmakers at the Fulton represents an ex
pansion of its Exhibitions Program to in
clude two screening facilities: the current 50 
seat screening room on Oakland Avenue and 
the larger, classic downtown movie house, 
the Fulton Theatre.
Filmmakers at the Fulton is committed to 
establishing a showcase for independently
Photo Opportunity 85, a national 
photographic competition and exhibition 
juried by Susan Harder, opened at the Blatent Image Gallery/Silver Eye Photographic 
Workshop this Saturday. The show continues 
through January 2, 1986.
The competion received a response of over 
300 photographs, from photographers work
ing all across the country. From these, juror 
Susan Harder selected fifty, giving the jurors 
award to Pittsburgh photographer Robert 
Pointon. The wide-ranging geographic 
origins of the work Harder has selected yield 
a captivating variety of images, as well as a 
thrilling sense of parallel accomplishments.
Susan Harder has been a curator and adThe whole cast helped keep the action mov
ing briskly, with Tom Willmorth, Sydney 
Sidner, Kevin Black, Court Whisman and 
Ming-Na Wen especially effective.
The costume design by Susan Kistler was 
excellent. Her costumes changed gradually 
as the period moved in time, and also clearly 
evoked socio/economic levels. Scene design 
by Natalie Wilvers was also very good, the 
change of locale from act to act was smooth 
and effective. Lighting design by L.S. Colclasser and sound design by Christopher M. 
Dudas were also solid.
An Evening With Georges Feydeau was a 
challenge for the Senior Rep, and they made 
it work quite enjoyably.
produced International and American 
Cinema. It will feature films that received 
critical attention and popular audience sup
port in other cities here and abroad and will 
also feature revivals of classic favorites, such 
as the double feature of James Deans East 
of Eden and Rebel Without a Cause in 
December.
After the opening night celebration, Film
makers at the Fulton will officially launch 
its winter season on Friday, November 22, 
with the award-winning docu-drama 
Kerouac.
visor to such well-known photographic col
lections as the Newhall Collection in Albu
querque, New Mexico, and the LIGHT 
Gallery in New York, a new gallery with a 
sole emphasis on photographic aret.
Gallery hours for the exhibit are Wednes
day through Saturday, 12:00 to 5:00 p.m.
The gallery will be closed Thursday, 
November 28, Wednesday, December 25, 
and Wednesday, January 1
we carry compiere
line of products: |
NEXK/S ? TCX ?
SEBASTIAN* {
REDKEN
T f MON.-FCI. 9n>9L6W1S SAT. 9TO 5
01 i S. Ajken Ave  Shadyside
m4063 ,
Lewis coupon
^ 1.00 OFF PURCHASE OF $ 00 0B MORE
Exprs 12/51/65 B ,
The CMU Association for Life 
presents the controversial film
THE SILENT 
SCREAM
Tonight at 7:30 in DH 1112
Admission is free
THANKSGIVINGBREAK RATE
Make your break with us. 
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu
dent I.D. and a cash deposit. 
Stop by to fill out a short 
m <cash qualification form at
* Rate available from noon Wednesday, Nov. 27 to Monday, Dec. 2. Certain daily minimums apply. Rates will be 
slightly lower for drivers over 25.
least 24-hours in advance. 
You pay for gas used and 
return car to renting loca
tion. We also accept most 
major credit cards.
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevrolet Chevette
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similarsize car and is subject to change without notice. Specific cars subject to availability.Call for details.
National Car Rental,
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667
Pittsburgh Filmmakers reopen the Fulton
The Blatent Image Gallery

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 15
AB Concerts: An Evening with Windham Hi//
by David Lorenz Winston
Not only does Liz Story play the piano 
well, but she also has nice hair.
By NANCY OTT
Special to the Tartan
Fantastic. Thats the only way I can 
describe November 14ths An Evening With 
Windham Hill, at Carnegie Music Hall in 
Oakland. Just fantastic. Pianist Liz Story, 
guitarist Michael Hedges, and the quartet 
of violinist Darol Anger, guitarist Mike Mar
shall, bassist Mike Mannering and guitarist 
Jon Jorgenson, gave over two solid hours of 
the best in contemporary jazz/acoustic/ 
bluegrass music.
Pianist Liz Story kicked off the evening on 
the right note with a set that combined dry 
wit and passionate playing. Things With 
Wings, a flying, fast-flowing piece, was 
dedicated to all flying thingsespecially 
bats. Bats, Story announced, are much 
better than birds to have as pets. If youre 
going on a trip for two weeks, you can just 
hang them in the fridge, and theyll hiber
nate.
Other selectionsthe moody Wedding 
Rings, Solid Colors, and the hymnlike 
Devotionwere in a more sober, evocative 
mode. Her best selection of the evening, 
Unaccountable Effects (the title cut from 
her newly-released album), inspired by laws
Bach and Handel celebration
An evening of great music  
commemorating the tercentary of the birth 
of Bach and Handel is scheduled for St. 
Pauls Cathedral, Oakland, on Sunday, 
November 24, at 8:30 p.m. The event marks 
the twenty-third anniversary of the dedica
tion of the famous Beckerath Organ, and is 
open to the public without charge.
Jan Hora, Professor of Organ at the Con
servatory of Prague and one of Europes 
great orgaists, will play. A winner of many 
competitions on the continent, Mr. Hora is 
well known in Europe both through his 
recordings and his many recitals in West East 
Germany, Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, 
England and Scandinavia, Austria, Poland, 
Japan, the USSR, Italy and Spain, Bulgaria, 
Roumania and others. This is first tour in 
America. His program, in addition to three 
youthful works of Handel, include the Bach 
Prelude and Fugue in C Major, the great B 
Minor and the stupendous Passacaglia in C 
Minor.
The Cathedral Choir will perform, as part 
of the program, the Cantata No. 79 The 
Lord is a Sun and Shield of Bach. This
HOWARD 
JOHNSON
Lodge
119 Newly Remodeled 
Rooms
3401 Boulevard of the Allies 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 16213 
(412) 83-6100 (800) 246-4444
great work, composed for the Reformation 
Festival of 1735, received its first perfor
mance in Leipzig exactly 250 years ago. Paul 
Koch, well known Pittsburgh musician and 
Director of Music at the Cathedral, will 
conduct.
Noriko Fujii of Cleveland, a native of 
Tokyo, will be soprano soloist for the Can
tata. Miss Fujii has appeared in concert 
throughout the United States, Europe and 
the Orient. She is a member of the music 
faculty of Cleveland State University. Milutin 
Lazich, a native of Yugoslavia and a member 
of the music faculty of Cleveland State Col
lege, will be bass soloist. Lazich has perform
ed all over the United States and Europe, 
and recently with the Belgrade Opera in 
Yugoslavia. Franklin Watkins, Organist and 
Director of Music at Peters Creek United 
Presbyterian Church and prominent Pitt
sburgh musician, will be organ accompanist.
that exist outside of cause and effect, was 
powerful and reminiscent of the Far East.
Guitarist Michael Hedges brought a com
pletely different style to the stage. Describ
ed by Story as being the violent side of Win
dham Hill, Hedges did not disappoint his 
admirers. His opening number, Dylans All 
Along the Watchtower highlighted his 
brilliant, physical, almost frenzied style of 
playing and his incredible technique. 
Hedges managed to make one lone acoustic 
guitar sound better than a full backup band.
A self-proclaimed submarine freak, 
Hedges dedicated Rickovers Dream an 
underwater sounding instrumental  to the 
songs namesake. Other songs were drawn 
from experience. My Front Porch, and the 
frantic, percussive Silent Anticipation 
painted musical images of youth in the 
Midwest. Funky Avocado, a whimsical look 
at disco-madness, was bom late one night 
in Hedgess apartment atop a health foods 
store next to a discotheque. In a novel move, 
he attached a burning stick of incense to his 
guitar to recreate the mood he felt while 
composing Total Aerial Boundaries.
The crowd loved every minute of it, and 
gave Hedges a standing ovation. As an en
core, he led the hall in a sing-along to a 
decidedly funky version of the Beatles 
Come Together complete with parts for 
people with ordinary voices, people with 
high voices and people with colds.
Following Michael Hedges performance 
was the Anger-Marshall quartet, featuring 
Darrol Anger on violin and Mike Marshall 
on mandolin in a foot-stompin, handclappin rollicking bluegrass-influenced 
opener. Quartet members Anger, Marshall, 
Mike Mannering (Windham Hill bassist ex
traordinaire, according to Marshall), and 
Jon Jorgenson continued the high-spirited 
example set by Hedges. Talking through the 
violin, carrying on high with fellow band 
members, and responding to one or two 
hecklers in the audience, Anger, Marshall, 
Mannering and Jorgenson had tremendous 
fun while playing an extremely intense set.
Gator Strut, a piece of what Marshall 
termed electro-acoustic funk, dedicated to 
the state of Florida, was easily their catchiest 
tune. Chasing one another around stage in 
a manner reminiscent of rampaging 
alligators, the quartet became caught up in 
the spirit of the evening.
Beneath the Surface broke out of the 
bluegrass mood set in the first few songs with 
a Japanese/French/Oriental sound, inspired 
by Pacific tide pools and featuring Jon 
Jorgenson on guitar synthesizer. Piacenza 
was influenced by the ethnic music of Italy, 
and featured Marshall on mandolin. Free 
D featured a dueling banjos sectionwell, 
actually, a dueling violin/guitar synth 
section  between Anger and Jorgenson. 
(Jorgenson won, but only from technical 
sophistication).
Anger, Marshall, Mannering and Jorgen
son were also given a rousing ovation by the 
enthusiastic crowd. Their encore, a violin 
duet, was as funny and as fantastic as the 
rest of their set. Afterwards, the two came 
out to sign autographs and albums in the 
foyer of the hall.
Sound in the Anger-Marshall section of 
the concert was not quite as good as it had 
been for Liz Story and Michael Hedges. 
Bassist Mannering experienced some minor 
feedback, but most annoying was a certain 
fuzziness from Jorgensons guitar-synthesizer.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible bv bus from CMl
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
Masitrfirrf. Visa uci epied 
< .all <//>/X jimmctu
Exciting and Challenging Career Opportunities
Master of Business Administration
A small, highly selective MBA program has 
been designed by The Ohio State University 
to provide professional management 
education to students with nonbusiness 
academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time 
program
 facilitates a high level of student and
faculty-student interaction
 has no prerequisite course work
 is especially attractive to students with
liberal arts, scientific, and other 
nonbusiness backgrounds
 is built upon a tightly integrated study of
foundation management tools and 
concepts
 offers the opportunity to concentrate in one
or two management fields through 
elective course work
 is offered by one of the top 25 schools of
management in the country and is 
accredited by the American Assembly of 
Collegiate Schools of Business
Last year's graduates were very successful in 
finding career opportunities Examples of 
positions they selected include the following.
 assistant to the chief executive officer.
Midland Mutual Life
 field marketing manager. Ford Motor
Company
 management trainee with an
international assignment. Chase 
Manhattan Bank
 assistant product manager, Pillsbury
 financial analyst, Hewlett Packard
 inventory control manager. IBM Corporation
 account executive, Merrill Lynch
 consultant. Price Waterhouse
 management trainee with an international
assignment. Procter and Gamble 
For a brochure describing this program and 
application information, please 
contact:
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
614-422-8511
The Ohio State University

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA  PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA 
<
<NN
810 IVY STREET682-3333
CDri~ .. Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 am
B>
We sell pizza by the slice
LARGE $
PIZZA
<NN
<NN
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
FREEK
>
Liter of Coke With Purchase Of Large Pizza
PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA
NN>
walk-tn tutoring program 
ach wokSunday thru thursday 7pm-10pm
' < WjS
Calculus PH - 126A
Pie I. N.W
Physics PH -1266
Chemistry PH - 2256
Engftsh as a BH - 1356
second language
Economics PH - 226B
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 235B
JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST HEART DISEASE
SUPPORT THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION, WESTERN PA. CHAPTER
"BIG HEART" BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
NOV. 22-23 at CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
FRIDAYPOINT PARK VS. PITT-JOHNSTOWN, 7:00 
CARNEGIE-MELLON VS. LaROCHE, 9:00
INDIVIDUAL GAME 
TICKETS ARE $3 
FOR ADULTS AND 
$1.50 FOR STUDENTS
SATURDAY-CONSOLATION GAME, 6:00 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME,8:00
TOURNAMENT TICKETS 
ADULTS-$5 
STUDENTS-$2
PRIZES WILL BE GIVEN AWAY EACH NIGHT 
$100 SCRAMBLE SATURDAY NIGHT
FOR TICKETS CALL 578-3087, 578-2211 or 731-7500
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE"

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
NCAA
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
For the first time in over ten years, the 
CMU cross-country team did not earn a 
berth in the NCAA National Champion
ships. The top three teams in the region go 
to this meet and CMU finished a frustrating 
fourth in last weeks Eastern Regions. The 
team was plagued with some bad luck and 
weather conditions but Head Coach Gary 
Meckley is not using this as any kind of 
excuse.
It gets tougher every year. When you run 
against a team that has state funding and 
backing they can afford to draw more 
students. The priorities are different, and 
the athletes have minimal academic pressure
while here at CMU academics comes first. 
Its hard to compete against something like 
that. When I put it all into perspective, all 
their money and facilities, I dont look at it 
that we did so badly. We are maintaining 
our level of competition .Meckley stated in 
regard to CMUs performance.
Some of the runners fared rather well with 
three making the All East team. These same 
three were also CMUs top finishers at the 
tournament. Paul Carnine came over first 
for the Tartans with a time of 27.43 in this 
5.1 mile race. Next was senior Mark Sulecky 
at 27.50. followed closely by freshman Pat 
Noll at 27.52. The over all standings were 
Glassboro State first, then Haverford Col
lege, Frostburg State and CMU.
The schools finishing before us have a dif
ferent type of academic reputation and put 
their emphasis, both financial and personal, 
on different areas of the collegiate ex
perience. Its getting tougher to recruit. 
These other schools are making a commit
ment to putting more emphasis on sports... 
After a year or two at school the priorities 
change. Theres nothing wrong with that, 
but sometimes running slips down to four 
or five instead of being second. Meckley 
added.
Im proud of their performance though, 
they ran a very good race. In the PACs Grove 
City finished first, in the NCAAs we put 
three guys in front of them. Grove City 
finished 13th this year. They usually end up 
around sixth or seventh, he commented on 
the race.
When asked about his feelings concern
ing his appearance in Sports Illustrated 
Meckley responded The way my team is set 
up, it allows me to become very close to every 
individual. I enjoy what I am doing and I 
enjoy the people I work with. I get letters 
from runners that went to school here a long 
time ago and I hear about how they have 
made successes out of their lives. I am pro
ud of the fact that these students are suc
cesses and that maybe I helped them or had 
a hand in it. I am more proud of that. I am 
more proud of what these kids are doing 
with their lives than any mention I could get 
in a magazine. He added however, I dont 
usually buy Sports Illustrated, but I did that 
week. It will probably be lost by Christmas 
time though.
Tartans assigned Salisbury in Division III playoff
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
This is it. After three Saturdays of sitting 
around watching other people score touch
downs, rooting for Penn State and watching 
the scoreboard for other games, the 
Carnegie-Mellon Tartans finally get to play 
g| football again. It is a privilege 
they have earned.
O' It is right now Sunday morn
ing at 11:30 a.m. The Tartans 
first round playoff game will be this upcom
ing Saturday. It is early in the day, that is 
all we know right now. As a Tartan football 
fan and as a reporter, the research begins, 
with the aid of fellow fan and reporter John 
Friedmann, to find out some facts. There 
are four teams in the Southern region of the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA). As of last week, those four teams 
were, in order, Lycoming, Carnegie-Mellon, 
Gettysburg, and Salisbury State, a Maryland 
school.
Except for Carnegie-Mellon, all of those 
teams played yesterday. One score is in the 
Pittsburgh Press. Salisbury State has con
firmed their playoff berth with a 44-14 rom
ping of Ferrum College. The other two scores 
require further research. Until then, lets 
look at Carnegie-Mellon.
October 29, the Tartans defeated Bethany 
to complete their 8-0 undefeated season. 
The problem is that most other teams play
nine or ten games and started a week later 
than the Tartans. So CMU will get a few 
weeks off. Will the time off hurt the Tartans? 
Who knows? No one. The only way anyone 
will know is watching the game on Saturday.
The Tartans are led by the Presidents 
Athletic Conference offensive Most Valuable 
Player Mike Hensel. A junior quarterback 
from Mars, Pa., Hensel threw better than 
many expected this year, completing 62 of 
109 passes for 1131 yards and nine 
touchdowns. Everyone knew he could run, 
which he did; 256 yards and seven 
touchdowns. But more important than all 
those stats is the way he handles himself on 
the field. Hensel keeps the Tartans under 
control: he can drop back to pass, roll out 
and throw or run. His diversity is perhaps 
the most important facet of the Tartan 
offense.
Senior linebacker Mike Paterchak leads 
the defense. A first-team all-conference 
selection, his leadership and his ability to 
make the big hit at the right time make him 
the best linebacker in the conference. He lost 
out as defensive MVP to Orlando Williams 
by one vote. Williams was kept under tight 
wraps against CMU tackles Rob Butts and 
Cam Poluszek. It was Paterchaks big hit on 
punt returner Tom Dominic of Bucknell the 
second week of the season that turned that 
game and the whole season around.
Research continues. According to Fried
mann, according to what he calls the Rob 
Butts sports information service, Gettysburg 
tied Franklin and Marshall, and number 
one ranked Augustana of Illinois lost for the 
first time in four or five seasons. What do 
these scores mean? For now, the Augustana 
score doesn't mean anything. It might fur
ther down the playoff highway, but not now. 
Gettysburg should still make the playoffs; 
their 9-0-1 record is still third best in the 
region, and Franklin and Marshall is a good 
team. However, it does mean that CMU will 
remain second in the region after falling 
from first last week.
Friedmann is now calling the Gettysburg 
sports information director at home to con
firm these scores. Bruce Gerson, CamegieMellons vaunted SID, isnt home. He has 
deserted us on perhaps the most important 
day of the year.
The NCAA takes many things into ac
count when determining home field advan
tage. Wait, a confirmation on the scores. 
John has gotten to Bob Kenworthy, Get
tysburgs SID. Gettysburg did indeed tie 
Franklin and Marshall in an offensive explo
sion, 0-0. Lycoming defeated Lebanon 
Valley, 59-0. No confirmation on the 
Augustana score. Carnegie-Mellon should 
remain number two, as the teams around us 
did nothing to change their status.
Men's Et Women's Basketball Preview
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Editor in Chief
After a 9-13 (7-5 in PAC) record last year 
and a second place finish in the PAC, the 
Tartan mens basketball team opens its 
1985-86 season this Friday night against 
LaRoche College in the opener of the Big 
Heart Classic.
In the opening game of the tournament 
which begins at 7:00 p.m., Point Park plays 
Pitt-Johnstown. Carnegie-Mellons game 
begins at 9:00 p.m. Second round games 
begin at 6:00 p.m. Saturday, November 23 
with the consolation games, followed by the 
championship game at 8:00 p.m. All pro
ceeds of the tournament benefit the 
American Heart Association.
The womens basketball season opens 
Saturday night, with an away game versus 
St. Vincent College at 7:30 p.m. Their 
home opener is Tuesday, December 3 
against Seton Hill College at 7:30 p.m.
It is a season that opens with great op
timism. Both head coaches, Larry Ander
son and Gerri Seidl, had great recruiting off
seasons. Anderson landed junior transfer 
Pete Cwalina, a 66, 228 pound forward 
from Bethel Park via Clarion. One inform
ed observer said, If Pete stays healthv, he 
will be the PAC player of the year.
Of the freshman, 67 Daren Moffatt and
63 Dave Sikora have looked the best in 
scrimmages, while others will also con
tribute, including 64 Darryl Long, who has 
been injured, 67 Ronald Johnson, and 62 
guard Erik Swenson.
Captains for the 1985-86 season are for
wards Richard Neff and George Debski. 
Neff averaged 8.1 points and 5.5 rebounds 
in 1984-85, while Debski scored 6.5 points 
and grabbed 3.7 rebounds. Center Hart 
Coleman, last years Post-Gazette Small Col
lege Freshman of the Year and the PACs 
Co-Rookie of the Year, returns to join Neff 
and Cwalina in what should prove to be a 
very formidable starting front line. Coleman 
led the league with 9.0 rebounds per game 
and scored 10.1 points per contest.
The Tartan men also have two new assis
tant coaches, Bill Kinavey and Herb Lake. 
Kinavey is a former assistant at Elizabeth 
Forward and Steel Valley, and played at Cal 
St. of Pa. Lake is a former Pitt player, is 
working towards his degree in speech and 
communications at Pitt.
Womens head coach Gerri Seidl will have 
seven new faces on her bench. Emma 
Fischer joins the team as an assistant coach. 
A former assistant to Seidl at Northgate 
High School, Fischer is a 1972 graduate of 
Pitt. Seidl also has six freshman on her 
squad, led by 510 Aimee Reber and 57
Lisa Lightner. Reber scored over 1,000 
points in her high school career, and gives 
the Tartans height that they havent had in 
recent years. A graduate of Norwin, she has 
had early season problems with a jammed 
knee and a previously injured foot, but 
claims these hurts will not bother her dur
ing the regular season.
Lightner, a graduate of Bishop Guilfoyle 
High in Altoona, Pa., was the third leading 
scorer in her schools history with 794 points 
and their fourth leading rebounder, grab
bing 444. A good outside shooter, Lightner 
is a good all around player with excellent 
court sense.
Also expected to contribute are guards 
Roseanna Neupauer and Beth Virgin. 
Neupauer, a point guard, is an excellent 
foul shooter, while Virgin, at 58, will also 
swing up to the forward position. Patti Spar
row, a 510 forward will also see plenty of 
playing time.
Returning starters include their lone 
senior, point guard Nancy Dilulio, and 
junior guard Val Sooky. Monica Zalevsky 
and Vivian Joy Braxton will also play vital 
roles on the team.
This could be the year that the Tartan 
basketball program makes some strides 
towards catching up to the vaunted football 
progtam. Stay tuned.
As I was saying, the NCAA takes many 
factors into account in determining home 
field advantage. Field condition is one of 
them, and that could hurt CMU. They have 
had to practice at South Stadium, which has 
lights and artificial turf. Its sunny today, so 
maybe Tech Field will dry out. I think its 
sun, I forgot what it looks like. It helps that 
Gettysburg tied, Carnegie-Mellon has a betcontinued on page 19
Ice Tartans 
beat Penn State
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie -Mellon hockey team beat 
up on Penn State McKeesport by scoring an 
easy 11-2 win. The win was keyed by four 
goals by Tartan standout Rob Katz. The Tar
tans kept constant pressure on the Penn State 
goalie and controlled the puck for most of 
the game. The win was the Tartans fourth 
of the year, moving their season record to 
four and two.
Carnegie Mellons domination was ex
emplified by the amount of shots on net, as 
Penn State goalies were subjected to 54 shots, 
while the Penn State offense could only 
manage a mere nine shots on Tartan 
goaltender Bob Kosakowski. The Tartans 
opened up scoring early, as Mark Licata 
scored only one minute into the game. The 
Tartans were able to score two more times 
on goals by Pat Merchak and Rob Katz 
before Penn State scored their first goal. The 
Tartans were able to add to their lead before 
the end of the first period on Rob Katzs se
cond goal of the game.
The second period opened much the same 
as the first, as Rob Katz scored, giving 
himself a hat trick. But Penn State came 
back and scored again before Carnegie - 
Mellon was able to shut them out. John 
Blackwood then scored with two minutes left 
in the period, to add to the two assists that 
he also garnered in the game. The second 
period ended on a goal by Carnegie Mellons 
Steve Desrochers, which added to the assist 
that he scored earlier in the contest.
As the teams played the third period, 
Penn State began to resort to foul play to try 
and stop the Tartan onslaught. But it was 
just not enough as Ned Spells. Paul Rusao, 
Mark Licata, and Rob Katz scored for the 
Tartans to close out the scoring in the big 
Tartan victory. Other Tartans who had assists 
in the game were Meade Rudasill, Paul 
Russo. Vernon Hopkins. Pete Malkemes. Bill 
Schwartz, and Joe Bailey. Two assists were 
added by Don Heyse and one more was 
tallied by Tartan player of the game. Rob 
Katz.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 19, 1985
An equal opportunity employer
& 1985 Apple Computer. Inc Apple and the Apple logo arc registered trademarks of Apple ( (imputer. Inc.
Help us sponsor your 
schools winterbreak 
ski trip and ski free!
Possibilitof artificial turf on Tech Field?
CMU Athletic Director Jim Banner
by John Friedmann
If there ever was a field that needed ar
tificial turf, its Tech Field. Seldom has a 
patch of ground taken as much punishment 
as Tech Field has over the past few years. 
Besides the Saturday football games, it plays 
host to all home soccer and field 
hockey matches. Plus occasional 
practice. After all, where else 
can you play?
But with all the wear, Tech Field is becom
ing more dirt (or mud, depending on the 
vagaries of the Pittsburgh weather) than 
grass. And it looks to stay that way.
So far Ive made CMU sound like an ac
count that turf salesmen would kill for? Why 
dont we have fake grass?
Like everthing else, the question comes 
down to money. In order to get the field 
done properly, it would take on the order of 
$1.5 million dollars.
Properly is also a key word. As CMU 
Athletic Director Jim Banner explains it, 
certain changes would differentiate any 
facility from earlier intallations such as
South Side Stadium. Gone would be the 
injury-inviting water drain grates. Banner 
explained that the field would be placed on 
top of porous material, allowing water to 
drain quickly through the field and into a 
gutter-like drainage system underneath.
Banner also noted changes that would 
benefit other sports. The cinder track would 
be incompatible with the new turf, as the 
carpet would act like a giant brush, absor
bing the cinders. And while theyre at it, the 
turf would be made wide enough so that a 
pair of IM football (or soccer, etc.) games
could be be played crosswise, leaving the up
per grass areas as stricly practice grounds.
Well, if CMU decided to invest in artificial 
turf, how long would we need to wait? As 
Jim Banner estimates, the lead time would 
be about nine to twelve months. But no 
decison has been made, and no money is in * 
the budgeti so dont hold your breath.
John Friedmann is a sophomore majoring in 
industrial management and is Business 
Manager and a sports reporter for The 
Tartan.
This Week's M Report
Delta Tau Delta, after winning the major 
league IM water polo championship, took 
on the undefeated TX minor league water 
polo champions in a match to determine the 
CMU All-School IM water polo champion. 
The Delts started out strong by scoring 3 
goals in the first quarter and 3 goals in the 
second quarter to take a 6-2 halftime lead.
TX came out swimming in the third quarter 
to score two fast goals to cut the score to 6-4, 
but the strength of the Delts swimmers took 
its toll on TX and the Delts went on to win 
the match 9-4.
Congratulations to both teams for a great 
season and final All-School championship 
match and also to commissioner Hal Levine 
who did a super job of water polo 
commissioner.
Tuesday, November 19 will be the last day 
to enter your three-person volleyball team. 
Sign-up in the IM office room 101 gym or 
contact commissioner Dom Colangelo Beta 
687-t 59.
A i ch delayed playoff for the minor 
league co-rec volleyball title was played last 
week here in Skibo gym, with PILAM 
defeating DU-B for the 1985 title.
After a close hard fought defeat in the first 
game 15-8, DU tied in the second game and 
last 15-2 to a very fine PILAM co-rec team. 
Congratulations to PILAM and co-rec com
missioner John Kmetz-TX for a great co-rec 
volleyball season.
In soccer, Real Mellcn leads, second sees 
a three way tie for the majors. In In
termediate, KDRho leads in a tie with 
Chesga-1, in front of a tie for second. The 
minors have AEPi leading with Green in se
cond and Donner Weenies in third.
Sorry, Varsity soccer players who played 
varsity soccer this year are NOT permitted 
to play IM soccer in the 1985 season.
In the IM Table Tennis league, Have the 
Odds is in first with Beverage Drinkers se
cond, and The Slammers in third. IM Racquetball standings are PhiKap leading with 
Second Try and Pilam/SAE following in a 
third place tie.
Run with a fest crowd
As an MBA or engineer working at Apple Computer, 
you hit the ground running. You take a project and 
define it. There are no rules, just problems and solutions. 
Your solutions.
We enjoy the constant change involved in staying 
ahead of the volatile personal computer market. In fact, 
the only ones complaining about the pace at Apple  
are our competitors.
Far from running in circles, we have a very
definite long-range goal. Apple Computer is going to 
change the way the world thinks.
To succeed, weve got some very big shoes to fill. 
Learn more about our opportunities for MBAs and 
engineers by attending our on-campus reception. Wed 
like to see you, and your resume, Tuesday, December 
3rd at 6 p.m. Or send your resume to: Apple Computer, 
Inc., College Relations, Dept. CM/85, 20525 Mariani 
Avenue, MS9-C, Cupertino, CA 95014.
In team volleyball, Spycho leads follow
ed by Physics Grads and ECE. In the 
womens league, Mankillers come in first 
with second and third going to Orange Dot 
and 3c&d respectively.
Darts schedules are out and can be pick
ed up in the IM office. Last call for IM 
Backgammon. Entires are due Thursday 
November 21. The next IM meeting will be 
held Thursday November 21 at 12:30 pm in 
the IM office, room 101 gym.
THE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS 
FACTORY OUTLET
WINTERBREAK
(800) 368-2006 TOLL FREE

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 19
CMU ranked second going into playoffs
continued from page 17
ter record, and we should get home field 
advantage.
BULLETIN: Mankato State 35,
Augustana 27. Score courtesy of United Press 
International. Mankato State, where Johns f ' cousin went to school. John called his mom
my to find out the spelling. Its in Minnesota. 
Mommy wasnt home, but father 
remembered. This is the first time 
Augustana has lost since any of us have been 
in school.
Bruce Gerson finally came home. He said 
he was out. He is calling Athletic Director 
Jim Banner now to find out if he knows who 
we play next week. Wait, the phone has 
rung. Its Bruce. Were playing at Salisbury 
f' State of Maryland. After Sports Editor Bon
nie Jacobson uses the computer to write her 
story, Ill give you a preview of the Sea Gulls 
of Salisbury State.
The Sea Gulls are led by Head Coach 
Mike McGlinchey. In his fourth year at SSC, 
McGiinchey won his 30th game Saturday, 
with nine losses and one tie. Salisbury State 
made the playoffs in 1983, defeating, you 
guessed it, CMU by the score of 16-14. They 
were defeated in the semifinals by Union
* College, 23-21. They lost their first game this 
season to top-twenty ranked C.W.Post, 28-13, 
and have won nine straight since.
Offensively, they are led by senior quarter
back Robb Disbennett and senior fullback 
Dwayne Humenik. Humenik gained over 
1000 yards in 1983, and was second on the 
team in rushing last year to senior Maury 
Jarmon. This year, Jarmon has moved to the 
defensive backfield, and Humenik has taken 
over again. After seven games, Humenik had 
L gained 466 yards on 91 carries. He has pro
bably gained considerable yardage since, 
because SSC scored 62 points against 
Ramapo three weeks ago and 44 against Ferrum this past week.
Disbennett set an NCAA playoff record 
for completion percentage in the game ver
sus Carnegie-Mellon in 1983, completing 
18-20 passes for 90 percent. He also holds 
the NCAA record of 16 consecutive comple
tions in a game versus Randolph-Macon last 
season. Disbennett holds just about every 
SSC passing record there is. After seven 
games, he had completed 68 of 114 passes 
for 1012 yards, eight touchdowns and four 
interceptions.
The defense is led by a solid line, in
cluding sophomore Tom Kress, who had fif
teen sacks last season.
Now, for the most important part of this 
story: for you die-hard and not so die-hard 
lartan fans, here are The Tartan suggested 
travel plans if you would like to travel to 
games. Starting from my room on the cor
ner of Forbes and Morewood, take Forbes 
fast to Murray Ave., take a right on Mur
ray. Take Murray to the Parkway East (376 
toward Monroeville). Take the Parkway East 
to route 76, the Pennsylvania turnpike. Get 
on 76 east to Breezewood, Pa. Stop for gas
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
SKIERS!
Join 2000 other 
college students for a 
Winterbreak skifest at 
Killington from $188*'
and food and make that pit stop your kids 
have been complaining for. This is exit 12 
on the turnpike.
At Breezewood, take 1-70 East, which will 
be called the Baltimore National Pike, even
tually, probably once you get into Maryland. 
1-70 crosses the Maryland border at Han
cock. Take 1-70 all the way toward 
Baltimore. Get off 1-70 at 1-695 south, which 
is the beltway around Baltimore. If there is 
no south, just remember to go 
counterclockwise around the city.
Take 1-695 to state route 2 south. Take 2 
south to route 50/301 right around An
napolis. You will cross over beautiful 
Chesapeake Bay. (By the way, if you havent 
made a pit stop since Breezewood, theres 
probably a big mess in your back seat.) 
Route 50/301 splits up about 15-20 miles 
after you cross the bay. STAY ON 50. Route 
50 does a lot of turns and bends, and there 
is a narrow bridge over Choptank inlet (be 
careful motor home drivers), but route 50
does go all the way to Salisbury.
Once you are in Salisbury, we are as lost 
as you are. Follow the signs and ask ques
tions. As far as we can tell, the College is 
on a road south of town called 529, but we 
cant be sure. John is calling Steve Blake, 
SSCs SID at home to find out. Oops, Mr. 
Blake has moved on to the University of 
Virginia. Tim Cline is the new SID, but we 
cant find him. So we call the SSC Flyer, the 
student newspaper. Through the magic of 
telephone, we can find out almost anything.
Oh well, no answer. Youre on your own. 
Hope to see you there. And if you cant make 
it to the game, tune in to 88.3 fm, WRCT, 
who will make the trip to Salisbury and 
broadcast. The game will start in Salisbury 
at either 12:30 or 1:00 according to Mr. Ger
son. Listen to WRCT for air time.
Tartan football playoff fever. Gotta love it.
Christopher D. Lewis is a junior major
ing in Professional Writing, is Editor in 
Chief o/The Tartan, and has covered Tar
tan football for three years.
Knowledge is of two kinds. 
We know a subject 
ourselves, or we know 
where we can find 
information upon h."
BonrcU, U/tofJokmnm(r7f)
Federal Depository 
library Program
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
(800) 368-2006 TOLL FREE
HOW LESS LEAD IN GASOLINE WILL AFFECT TOUR CAR
USE OF ALCOHOL-GASOLINE BLENDS REQUIRES YOUR CAREFUL SELECTION
The Environmental Protection Agency is reducing the amount of lead allowed in leaded gasoline by more than 90%. General Motors supports this effort to reduce lead in the atmosphere. But our customers need to know how this action may affect their vehicles.In simple terms, continue with the same gasoline youve been using. You probably wont notice any difference at your service station. Just be sure your gasoline meets the requirements below.For post-1974 model cars and light trucks (less than 6,000 lbs.). Continue to use unleaded gasoline only. The new lower-lead limits for leaded gasoline are still too high: lead in gasoline will harm the emissioncontrol system.For 1971-74 model cars and light trucks. Use either unleaded or the new lower-lead gasoline. These vehicles were designed to run on either one.For all pre-1971 model cars and trucks.Use the new lower-lead gasolines. These vehicles need leaded gas to lubricate exhaust valves. The lead raises octane ratings and helps to avoid knocking and pinging. The lead is most important during continuous highspeed, high-load condi
tions such as towing a heavy trailer or large boat over a long distance. In a pinch, you can even use unleaded gas for normal driving.Tip: Use only enough octane to avoid frequent knocking. An occasional ping wont harm the engine.The new lower-lead gasolines should always be used in: 1971-78 trucks over 6,000 lbs. post-1978 trucks over 8,500 lbs.The effect of alcohol blends. To meet the new regulations, oil refiners will turn to other methods to maintain or increase octane ratings. Some will elect to refine gasoline more intensively. Others may add octane enhancers such as ethanol and methanol (more informally known as grain alcohol and wood alcohol).General Motors supports the use of such alternative fuels to lessen our nations dependence on imported oil. But to avoid operating and other problems, don t use gasoline containing more than 10 percent ethanol or 5 percent methanol. And in the case of methanol, be sure it contains cosolvents (to prevent separation of the alcohol from the gasoline) and corrosion inhibitors.
General Motors is taking steps to ensure that its future vehicles can operate problem-free with gasoline containing alcohol. For now, you should know the contents of the fuel going into your gas tank. Thats why we support the requirement that gas pumps show the alcohol content of the fuel. Such labels are being used in some states, but they are needed nationwide.To get the efficiency, driveability and performance we design into your GM vehicles, be sure you use the right fuel. The proper identification and use of gasoline is good for both GM customers and GM cars and trucks.
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks 
and the company that builds 
them.
Chevrolet  Pontiac 
Oldsmobile  Buick 
Cadillac  G MC Truck

---------------------------------------------------

The A1&T Gird eliminates fumbfing with coins and hassling over bills.
The AT&T Card. The fast, easy way 
to call long distancefrom anywhere 
to anywhere, anytime. The AT&T Card makes 
keeping in touch with Mends and family a lot more 
convenient when youre at school.
Youll be able to get through on almost any public 
phoneon campus or offwithout bothering with 
coins. And youll actually pay up to 50tf less than for 
AT&T collect, third-party or coin state-to-state calk 
In fact, for most calk, its the lowest rate next to 
direct dialing. And theres no charge to order the 
Card; no minimum usage fee.
You can also use your card to make calls from 
other peoples rooms: the charge will show up on your
bill, not theirs. No need to call collect or charge it to a 
third party.
Youll also eliminate a lot of hassle if you share a 
phone with roommates. With the AT&T Card, youll 
get your own separate monthly bill itemizing only 
your calls. Youll pay more per call than if you dialed 
directbut youll save a lot of headaches trying to 
figure out who owes what.
As you can see, the AT&T Card eliminates all 
kinds of hassles. And you can get one whether or not 
you have a phone in your own name. Put The Eliminator 
to work for you. Sign up for your AT&T Card by com
pleting and mailing the attached application. For more 
information call toll free 1 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 4589.

---------------------------------------------------

Complete and mail to: The AT&T Card, College Program, 
P.O. Box 5362, Cincinnati, OH 45201- 5362
Pleose Print___________________________________ APPLICANT INFORMATION
Applicants Full Name (Last, First, Middle)Date of BirthSocial SecuVity Number
Street Address (college)Apt#CityStateZip Code
Telephone Number (college) 
( )
How long at address 
yrs.mos.
Number of Dependents Including Spouse
College Telephone is in
? own name ? roommates name ? spouses name ? do not have a phone in my room ? Other
Name of Parent/GuardianAddressCityStateZip CodeParent/Guardian Telephone No.
( )
Are you aU.S. Citizen? ? Yes ? No
Citizenship
COLLEGE AND EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION
College NameStudent Status
? Full Time ? Fr QJr ? Grad? Part-Time ? Soph ? Sr
MajorGraduation DateDegree: ? Associate Degree? Bachelor? Graduate
Student Housing
? Dorm ? Rent-House/Apt ? Own ? Parents? Fraternitv/Sororitv fl Relatives Other
Monthly Housing Payment $ ...
Present EmployerPresent PositionHow long?
yrs. mos.
Monthly Income F rom Present Job
Source of Other Income ? Grant, Scholarsh (check any which apply) ? Summer Job ? Allowance n Other (identify}
PAnnual of Other 
$
AmountIncome
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Credit references (include charge accounts, installment contracts, finance co., credit cards, rent, etc.). Give complete list of all amounts owing.
Name of CreditorCity/StateType of AccountMonthlyPaymentsBalance Due
$$
$$
$$
Student LoanFinanced by$$
Auto/Motorcycle (Yr. & Model)Financed by$$
Other Obligations$$
? Checking ? Both Checking? Savings & Savings
Bank NameCityState
? Checking ? Both Checking? Savings & SavingsBank NameCityState
ADDRESS WHERE YOU WANT BlLL MAILED (card will be mailed to this address
AddressBox #City/StateZipPhone where you may be reached
( )
I agree to pay for charges to the account in accordance with the terms of the applicable tariffs as explained in the AT&T Card Account Agreement which AT&T will send me when my application is approved. I understand that my AT&T Card Account is subject to a maximum monthly usage limit of $100. I understand that once the monthly usage limit is reached, my AT&T Card will be deactivated until payment is received.
I am aware that information gathered about me will be assessed to determine my eligibility for the AT&T Card Account. If I ask, I will be told whether or not consumer reports on me were requested and the names and addresses of the credit bureau that provided the reports. I am aware that I must notify AT&T of any address changes.
SIGNATURE: X____________________________________________________________________Date
Note: In order to be considered for an AT&T Card, you must complete and sign this application. Omission of any of the information requested in this application may be grounds for denial.
AT&T
The right choice.
______________________FOR RESEARCH ONLY__________________
During an average month how much do you spend on long distance 
telephone calls to places outside your area code?--------------------------
 1985 AT&T Communications

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The necessity of an 
honor code at CMU
Cheating. Its a problem that must be dealt with 
at Carnegie-Mellon because it reflects not only the 
pressure to perform well at this university but our at
titudes as students about our education here. Will an 
honor code help? Only if students are as concerned 
about their education as they are about reaping a pro
fit from the enormous amount of time and money they 
expend during their years here.
It probably feels very nice to have a diploma from 
Camegie-Mellon, and as this school continues to strive 
for an improvement in its academic outlook and 
physical facilities, it will feel even nicer. Still, the 
realistic image  that potential employers care for 
nothing but a well-stocked resume and a high grade 
point average  can prove too tempting for students 
who have not taken the time to think about what kind 
of education they wish to receive here. Getting around 
four years and looking good should not be the primary 
objective. That was high school.
Presently, the overflow of one classs students tak
ing exams is moved to different rooms so that students 
will be at least three feet away from anyone else. At 
the University of Virginia, students are given takehome final exams and told how much time they are 
allowed to complete the exams. Now, either everyone 
at the University of Virginia is lying, or there exists 
a profound difference between their facultys views of 
their students and themselves, and our facultys views 
of our students and themselves. If nothing else, the 
adoption of an honor code would mean that we as 
students had reached some level of adult responsibility.
An honor code would not always be pleasant. A stu
dent would not only be required to refrain from 
cheating, but to agree to notify someone if he or she 
saw another student cheating. Sadly, many students 
are wary of falling into the depths of narkdom, and 
probably consider it a greater crime than cheating 
itself. Social convention almost demands that students 
adhere to a laissez-faire philosophy: Dont bother me 
and I wont bother you, but Im going to try to do bet
ter than you, and the way each of us chooses to go 
about it is relatively unimportant. Its safer socially 
to compete negatively for grades rather than positively.
An honor code, if properly implemented, could im
prove our academic atmosphere, but not if it is treated 
as an intangible form of discipline. Ideally the 
discipline should come from each of us, if we care 
about what kind of students we really are. However, 
this is Camegie-Mellon; academic pressure does not 
encourage students to be ideal. Therefore, Student 
Senate has endeavored to create the next best thing.
And what of the present efforts to create an honor 
code? The movement in Senate which is spearheaded 
by senior Senator Cindy Taylor, the energetic chair
man of the Academic Affairs Committee, resulted in 
a skeletal policy statement. After debating its merits 
for over an hour, Senate voted that the measure be 
made a referendum on the November ballot; a week 
later, Senate decided that the statement wasnt even 
ready for a referendum, and referred it to a commit
tee for further consideration.
The main argument against the proposal, as il
lustrated by Senator Jean Novak of SUPA and 
members of the audience, was that it was not com
plete enough to be put into immediate effect. Novak, 
who made a concerted effort to get the opinions of 
her constituents, reported that they would vote down 
such an honor code in a referendum, because it did 
not explain what procedures to follow to enforce itself. 
The Senate eventually came to the same general 
conclusion.
Few people disagree with the fundamental idea of 
an honor code. The Tartan believes, however, that such 
a code would need a complete plan of action before 
Camegie-Mellon students can be expected to support 
it  and to uphold it.
M<SnSS*4iJ
Letters:
Freedom shouldn't be assumed
Editor:
It was pitiful to read the con
fused, narrow-minded ramblings 
of Norbert Schindler Math/Music 
86 last week. His confirmed isola
tionist view that the U.S. has no 
vested interests beyond her 
borders was quickly contrasted 
with his interest in the subject of 
apartheid in South Africa. Do you 
really care Norb? It was more sur
prising that Norbert could not 
make any connection between his 
personal freedom to make such a 
statement as this and the men who 
gave their lives for a society that 
permits it. His liberal application 
of the tired cliches used to 
describe American foreign policy 
by the dissidents of a decade ago, 
reveals an extremely shallow and 
simplistic view of international af
fairs. It is true that the members 
of the military sacrifice some of 
their personal freedoms in order 
to function as an effective unit. I 
venture to say that the members 
of an orchestra also make conces
sions in order to perform a con
cert. This discipline in no way
restricts their personal strengths 
and initiative, instead a synergy 
develops that multiplies their ef
forts. Discipline and mindless, 
dogmatic obedience are not the 
same. Military actions, as with any 
human endeavor, can be fallible 
both in conduct and result but 
this cannot be used to infer that 
the motives of those who take the 
action are less than honorable. 
Norbert its time for you to turn off 
your terminal and take a trip to 
see of the countries that are our 
allies and our enemies, study the 
history of the human race and at
tempt to get beyond the stereotype 
views that are so restricting. In a 
message to Congress on January 6, 
1941 President Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt stated Four Freedoms 
should prevail throughout the 
world  freedom of speech and 
expression, freedom of worship, 
freedom from want and freedom 
from fear. Just see if they are out 
there and see what people are 
willing to do to win and keep 
them. For everyone else, take note 
of Norberts true message, people
who have been given freedom 
without understanding its value, 
take it for granted. These are the 
first to surrender it whenever the 
opportunity arises.
Tom Cobcum is a graduate student 
in Elec trical and Computer Engineering.
They don't want 
our money
Editor:
As of November 8th, 
Cashstream Machines and Mellon 
Bank Machines do not accept 
deposits or payments. (Machines 4 
located at Mellon Bank Branches 
still perform these functions.)
This Annoys Me. Id really like 
to see these services restored, 
especially at the CMU Banking 
Center in Skibo.
The number to call to com
plain is 234-6644.
Lets see if we can hassle this 
guy enough to get it fixed.
Jeff Koechling
Registration is like good sex
by Bob Glickstein
Ive just completed registration 
for my spring classes. Two classes 
I couldnt get into, and for one 
class I had to opt for an inconve
nient recitation section. The inconve<3^ nient recitation sec
tion ensured that I 
will not be able to eat lunch at all 
next semester. Two friends were 
shut out of classes they needed to 
take, and one friend needed to 
take three classes whose schedul
ed meeting times mutually ex
cluded each other.
I love registration.
Registration at CMU is ex
citing. Having completed registra
tion, I am completely exhausted. 
My limbs feel like water, and my 
very thought processes are swirl
ing around like dead leaves in a 
sudden wind. At CMU, registra
tion was designed to be deman
ding, both mentally and physical
ly. In this respect and others, 
registration is like good sex.
It seems every semester around 
this time an article appears on our 
antiquated system of registration. 
Certainly in this age of computers 
and automation, we can find a 
more convenient electronic way to 
place students in classes. At least 
we can find a way to allow Bob to 
eat lunch, or to allow Frank to
take all the classes he needs to 
take. But computerizing registra
tion would be defeating its 
primary (but hidden) purpose: to 
sexually fulfill the students. 
PerhapS it is a morale  boosting 
device; in any event, its no acci
dent that registration is like sex.
You dont believe me? Think 
about it. Before registration, some 
people become quite nervous, and 
some even suffer from perfor
mance anxiety. Will I get into the 
section I want? Will the Universi
ty let me get in? After registration, 
one can be serene and fulfilled-or 
sorely frustrated.
continued on page 26

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 23
Hawks, Doves, and Owls interprets nuclear policy
by Jim Miller
I Youre such a wimp, said the Hawk to the 
I Dove as they sat in the early dawn sharing I the same branch of an oak tree. It should 
I be obvious that cats can never be trusted. 
I Theyre always hungry. They would devour 
every mouse in the field and 
xf leave none for me and mine if it 
r{ & werent for my constant 
I vigilance.
Hold on a second, cooed the Dove. 
I When you get screeching like that its not 
possible to get a word in sideways. Besides 
I youre wrong. Its true I may not be a meat 
1 eater but it should be clear to anyone that 
the field is large enough so that cats and 
i birds can coexist even when some of us must 
compete with them for food. There are picn
ic ty of mice for all who need them. All we 
need is to work out a proper agreement. 
Hal scoffed the Hawk. Are you ever 
featherbrained. You turn your back on one 
of them and itd pounce and youre breakfast 
or lunch or dinner or a between meal snack. 
Razor sharp talons, a slashing beak and 
lightning fast maneuverability are what 
stand between being free to live as were 
meant to live and being feathers and a smile 
on a cats lips.
But cant you see, pleaded the Dove, 
that all of your belligerent crying, all your 
talon sharpening and your swooping and
* diving on cats does nothing but antagonize 
them. You become too much of a threat to 
them and win or lose they will start pounc
ing all over the place and it wont be just 
hawks with broken wings, or worse yet, 
broken necks.
So, what would you do? asked the Hawk 
sarcastically. Waddle up to one of those 
tangled fur balls and say, Nice Kitty. Want 
to play hide and seek. One thing for sure 
it would be glad to let you hide in its
Intellectually, the students populating 
Wean Hall are among the top 5% in the na
tion. They can do triple integration, depthfirst search, fourier transformations, token 
passing, and a myriad of other 
academic gymnastics; but they 
or cant ride elevators. I often climb
many flights of stairs just to 
avoid another Wean elevator ride. I have 
been quiet about it till now, but a recent 
event prompted me to write this complaint.
Last week, I was' on a crowded Wean 
elevator headed to the fifth floor. I was stan
ding approximately in the center of the 
elevator. Standing to my immediate left and 
right were female students (whom I did not 
know). Naturally, or so I thought, I decid
ed to give them both the chance to step in 
front of me to get through the door when 
it opened. But the slight hesitation necessary 
to accomplish this courtesy was misinter
preted my the guy behind me as a signal that 
I was not getting off, and he proceeded  
without even an excuse me to prod me off 
to the side with his arm so he could escape. 
I was further abused by the crowd outside 
the elevator that immediately came rushing 
in like it was the last chopper out of Saigon.
I know that this behaviour occurs because 
? door control circuitry on Wean elevators 
works somewhat like the shutter mechanism 
0n a 55mm camera; but there are solutions 
to the problem. Each elevator has a button 
labeled Door Open. Believe it or not, it ac
tually works. The door will remain open as 
long as the button is depressed. Pushing the 
button will even cause a closing door to 
reopen. Also contrary to popular opinion, 
the elevator was not the precursor of the 
Vegomatic. It only takes a slight tap on the
stomach. What we really need is a few more 
hawks. Maybe we can even recruit an eagle 
or condor or two. The cats see one of those 
monsters circling over them and they will 
have a second thought about their plans to 
overrun the field.
Or, if you make a big deal of this, mur
mured the Dove despairingly, they may 
figure that it is better to hunt a few hawks 
and doves now than to wait and have to 
worry about eagles and condors later. 
Especially, if they think you would restrict 
them to too narrow a portion of the field. 
Its even rumored that they are already 
bringing in lions and tigers.
All the more reason for eagles and con^ 
dors, cried the Hawk. 
As the Hawk and Dove continued to argue 
they failed to notice the Owl which, return
ing from a nights hunt, glided silendy to rest 
on an adjacent branch. After listening to the 
debate for a bit the Owl cleared its throat. 
You know friends, I think you are missing 
some important considerations. Both of you 
seem to think that an all out war between 
cats and birds will occur either through 
weakness or provocation, when one side or 
the other makes the calculated judgement 
that it is better to strike and fight than not.
I am concerned that you give too much 
credit to reason. I believe that it is not the 
laws of reason which are most powerful here 
but Murphys Law. We are much more like
ly, it seems to me, to find ourselves caught 
up in a fight to the death because of a 
mistaken judgement or an accidental con
frontation than because either we or the cats 
judge that we want all out war.
So, you would be in favor of a much less 
bellicose stance? asked the Dove.
I knew it. Another Pollyanna, spat the 
Hawk with disgust.
Well, yes and no, hooted the Owl. You
black rubber panels to reopen or keep open 
a closing door. I guarantee that you will not 
lose any part of your body.
It is possible that many students have not 
had extensive real world experience in 
elevator riding. They may in fact be surpris
ed to learn how elevators are used in in
dustry. For example, no one would ever think 
of entering an elevator until all those who 
wish to get out have had ample time to do 
so. It is also not uncommon for men to step 
aside or hold the door to let women exit first, 
even though everyone wants to get off at the 
same floor. And sometimes, people will ac
tually communicate out loud with total 
strangers to coordinate activities in a poten
tially complex elevator situation.
Now dont get me wrong. Im not saying 
that when the doors open Im expecting to 
find; as a local comedian put it, everyone 
holding hands and singing Kumbaya. But I do 
expect people to respect each other and show 
a litte courtesy. Otherwise, were just acting 
like cattle being driven to slaughter. (Did I 
say slaughter? I meant Calculus Exam).
Clearly, some guidelines for elevator eti
quette are in order.
I suggest the following:
1. The crowd waiting for an elevator must stand 
to either side of the doors, leaving a path 
straight out of the elevator for those exiting it.
2 . The crowd may not begin entering the elevator 
until all those who wish to exit have done so. 
Individuals in the crowd who are closest to the 
doors should use their hands to keep the doors 
open.
5 . Those inside the elevator, but not getting off,
see it is not enough to be nonconfrontational with the cats. Surely, anyone 
can see that they have interests which can 
conflict with our own and can threaten 
many things which we value in life. We need 
to have evident strength, enough to protect 
our interests. But at the same time if we 
deliberately create or encourage high states 
of tension between ourselves and the cats, 
if we set both sides on a hair trigger, then 
it might be the most innocuous event (a 
chance encounter over a single mouse) which 
begins a conflict that neither side can halt 
until both sides are virtually destroyed.
You would favor strength, then? urged 
the Hawk.
Yes, agreed the Owl, but I would be very 
cautious about involving eagles and condors. 
If I could choose, I would increase the 
number of hawks and refine their combat 
capabilities, but I would keep eagles and 
condors to a minimum and keep those that 
I had on short tethers. The cats, of course, 
might also increase their numbers but 
perhaps they would also show caution in in
cluding lions and tigers among their 
number. Neither of us should forget that 
eagles can eat hawks as well as cats and that 
tigers can eat cats as well as hawks.
Certainly, you would favor a declaration 
that stated that no bird would ever send 
eagles or condors after cats first, tested the 
Dove.
No, Im afraid not, confessed the Owl. 
If you are going to have such deadly force 
at all, it is unlikely that cats would believe 
such a declaration regardless of what was 
said. If eagles and condors are not only aim
ed at deterring the unleashing of lions and 
tigers but also conventional aggession by or
dinary cats, then a certain degree of am
biguity is desirable. However, in any ordinary
sides so others may easly enter.
should assist by either pressing the Door
Open button, or by moving to the back and
4 . If you are travelling one flight; for example, 
from the 5th floor down to the library on the 
4th floor, take the stairs. Only the handicap
ped, pregnant women, slugs and pieces of fur
niture should be permitted to ride the elevator 
for one flight.
I Believe that these rules will make Wean 
Hall a more comfortable place to [live if 
youre a hacker-and] work. But for those of 
you who insist on practicing hand-to-hand 
combat on the elevators in Wean Hell, I can 
only offer this small reminder of the implica
tions of your inconsiderate attude: There are 
no up^elevators in Hell... Thanks for hear
ing me out.
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
conflict I would explicitly plan for turning 
to such force as a last resort strategy and 
would strictly control the process by which 
that decision could be made. And, 
regardless, I would explicitly refrain from 
having sufficient eagle and condor power so 
that the cats might believe that I could 
eliminate all of their lions and tigers in one 
fell swoop.
Clearly, neither the Hawk nor the Dove 
were satisfied with the Owls views. However, 
both seemed to agree with the Owl that in 
the long run neither birds nor cats can rely 
on forces of such massive and devastating 
destruction. The longer we depend on these 
the greater the possibility for Murphys Law 
to take effect. We simply have to find alter
native ways for birds and cats to live together 
in the same field.
A concluding note: All this talk of birds 
and cats is a free interpretation of the con
tent of an important book about nuclear 
arms policy and the prospects of nuclear 
war. The book like this column is entitled 
Hawks, Doves and Owls. I would urge any 
and all who are concerned about the issues 
of arms control, the arms race and efforts 
of nuclear war to read this work. Beyond 
that, today, the President of the United 
States and the Premier of the Soviet Union 
begin a summit meeting which could pro
vide an opportunity for genuine steps toward 
an increase in global stability and a decrease 
in the threat of a nuclear holocaust. The 
CMU Peace Alliance and the CMU Campus 
Ministry Council are co-sponsoring a vigil 
from 5-8 p.m. this evening. This is a non
partisan, non-ideological event in which all 
who share an aspiration for world freed from 
the terror of nuclear weapons can join 
together in a common affirmation of their 
yearning for peace. Please, come and join us.
-----------------------------------------------------------
Correction 
Two errors were made in last weeks front
page article about the honor code. The quote 
on page five that began It is most important 
to respond to student concerns to cheating .
. . was made by Student Senator Brett 
Whysel, not Fred Deleon. Also, Senate did not 
vote down the proposed honor code, it voted 
to further examine the issue.
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor...............Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor.........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ... Anthony Datri 
Features Editor.. .Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor.............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor.........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor ..............Michele Keane
Art Manager..................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager .....................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter
ACME Director ...................Vijay Reddy
Editorial Asst....................Albrecht Powell
Asst. News Editor..........Carolyn Kelly
Asst. Art Manager..........Mark Kissner
Asst. Production Manager Don Gamble 
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2115. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, CamegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
Wean Hall elevators hardly uplifting
by Tom Cobourn

---------------------------------------------------

Dossier is looking for 
submissions.
The deadline is December 
2nd, and submissions can be 
turned into the Skibo Infor
mation Desk.
funded by Activities Fee
Discuss Your Future 
With General Electric
Who? BS and MS candidates in electrical engineering,
computer science, mechanical engineering, 
chemical engineering, aeronautical engineering 
and nuclear engineering.
What?The General Electric Technical Recruiting Team 
will be conducting campus interviews for 
challenging career opportunities within one of 
the most diversified companies in the world. 
Contact your placement office to schedule an 
interview with one of Our technical managers. 
Various entry level alternatives are available 
such as:
 Edison Engineering Program
 Manufacturing Management Program
 Chemical-Metallurgical Management Program
 Software Technology Program
 Individualized Direct Placement
Opportunities exist in such field as:
Artificial Intelligence
Expert Systems
VLSI
Robotics
CAD/CAE/CAM
Computer Graphics
Plastics
Metallurgy
Ceramics
Software Engineering 
Signal Processing 
Controls
When and 
Where?
For more information on these programs and 
the major business areas available refer to the 
General Electric file located in your placement 
office.
Monday, November 25th and Tuesday, 
November 26th in your placement office
What else? Sign-ups will commence Monday, November 11th
The future is working 
at General Electric
An equal opportunity employer
BSE
Save Your Breasts and Your Life
One out of eleven women develop 
breast cancer at some time in their 
lives.
Breast self-examination is simple to 
do, does not take much time, and 
can be fit easily into your personal 
care routine. Doing regular BSE 
will give you monthly peace of 
mind and may save your life.
Trained professionals from the 
CMU health center will be there to 
demonstrate the self-examination 
technique and to discuss what the 
early signs of breast cancer should 
look and feel like. Aids in helping 
you remember to do the examina
tion and to fit into your normal 
personal hygiene routine will also 
be discussed.
Thur. November 21, 4:00 p.m.
The lounge in Mudge House(just right of the front door)

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 25
[Bett recounts joys and sorrows of studenthood
By Michael Bett
So this is it, Im no longer with you. Im 
I dead and youre alive.
I had some of my best times with you. It 
I was here that I first really discovered the op. posite sex, all nighters, hall par
ties, and the best of friends. 
Friends that last a lifetime.
r~T*wir----- But its over; youre here and
f Im gone. Was my time here worth the strug
gle? Some weeks, I wasnt really sure. Yet, 
deep down I thought I was doing what was 
best for me.
While I was with you I often found myself 
thinking that I hated Carnegie-Mellon, I 
hated what I was doing, and I didnt want 
to be here. But what I really felt was frustra
tion. After a while, I realized that I really 
did like what I was doing. Sure, the work 
was hard, but the courses were what I real
ly enjoyed. This was what I wanted to do. 
jit wasnt the easy path; it was my path.
And I knew that I had many close friends 
who would be there for me if I needed them 
land I was there for them. No, I didnt hate
being here, my family was here.
These are the same people that I had gone 
out with, talked with, and sharedmy hopes, 
dreams, and even fears. These are the peo
ple I want to be with and this is the place 
where I wanted to be.
But my time has come. Now I am gone,
thrust outside, bom a second time. It is time 
to face new challenges in a new world. You 
have prepared me, molded me, like a pot
ter who molds his clay. You have made me 
ready, for that I owe you much.
I will be thankful for not quitting, sur
viving the rough times to enjoy the good
times. I take from you memories of some of 
the best times of my life. Thank you 
C amegie - Mellon.
Michael Bett is a senior majoring in 
Mathematics and will be graduating this 
December. This mill be his last column in 
The Tartan as Student Senate Chairman.
Computerized registration is unromantic
continued from page 22
Registration is a steady crescendo of 
activityfrom obtaining the R3D and class 
schedule, through receiving ones advisors 
approval, through pre-registration, then 
through registration itselfand what a 
climax registration is! A mad dash from one 
department to another, a mass expenditure 
of physical and psychic energy, a tangle of 
hopes, fears and questions! You dont see the 
scenery around you! You dont notice other 
people! You make mistakesyou go to the 
wrong rooms, you leave your pen here, you 
leave your jacket there. You arrive in the 
room you wantyour name is takenyoure
on the class list : you made it! And then one 
relaxes, finished, depleted, exhausted. Some 
even smoke afterwards.
Registration is like sexI missed three 
classes to do it. Beforehand, one takes ad
vice from ones friends. Afterwards, there are 
those who brag about what they accomplish
ed. It is important to plan ahead and select 
alternate electives  not unlike selecting 
birth control. The Spring Semester 
Schedule of Classes is a guide in the same 
sense that, say, The Joy of Sex is a guide. 
There are those who register very quickly 
and efficiently; there are those who draw the 
process out and make it last. Some people
laugh during registration, some cry; some 
simply assume a pained expression. You can 
cross-register at other schools (kinky). You 
can take only the courses in your major 
(straight). You can also double-major 
(swinging). And, of course, you can register 
alone (through the mail) But its not as 
much fun. And woe be to those pitiable souls 
who are wait-listed.
So lets not improve the CMU registra
tion process by making it more computeriz
ed or technological or efficientthat would 
be unromantic. Instead, lets fantasize about 
it, write poetry about it, and wonder if its 
going to be good this time around.
Launch hour. Throttles an* at full 
power a* a supersonic roar sweeps 
across the flight deck. And you're 
the* pilot.
The catapult tires and (i forces 
slam you hack into your seat. Sec
onds later, you're punching a hole 
in the clouds and looking good.
Nothing heats the excitement of
Navy flying. And no other job 
can match the kind of manage
ment responsibility you get so 
quickly in the Navy.
The rewards are then*, too.
promotions and pay increases.
lake off for tomorrow in tin* 
Navy. With top-level training 
to help you build technical and 
managerial skills soull use tor
Around-the-world travel oppora lifetime. Dpnt just settle into
Utilities with a great starting 
salary of S1H.200. As much 
as S;i:},(iOO after four \ ears with
a job; launch a career. See \ our 
Na\ v Recruiter or
CALL 800-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES! 
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
is YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Collegiale Delivery Services, Inc.
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at...
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
NOAPPOINTMENTNECESSARY
j want 
<81
sHrecTimans
COLOR
MUSTERING COUPON | SAVE $2.00PttaSIONHAIRCUTComp** wm thampoo  ttyUng
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
OlHr m&mNovember 30fvR9S!uv(uinm
$25.00
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
UNISEX HAIR SALON
687-3500 
No Appointments
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, eta 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call687-FOOD
5:00 pm to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Enroll in Americas largest management 
training programALOTOF CAPTAINS OF INDUSTRY STARTED OUT AS SECOND LIEUTENANTS.
How can you get the experience will teach you leadership and manageyou need to succeed in business? ment skills, and train you to handle real
These top executives started out challenges, 
as Army officers. Right out of college, If you want to prepare for a
they were given the kind of responsipromising future in business, begin 
bility most people in civilian life work your future as an Army officer, with 
years tor. Army ROTC. You too might wind up a
If you begin your future as an captain of industry!
Army officer, you could further your caFor more information, contact
reer plans. the Professor of Military Science on your
How do you become an Army campus. 
officer1 A great way to get the training ADJ^KV PfiHTf
you need is in Army ROTC. E Mil I #Ay NG
ROTC is a college program that ISfc ALL YV^U VdiVN Dfi*
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
Captain Perry Colvin in B7 of Margaret Morrison Hall
*rii
Earl G Grave, Editor & Publisher 
Black Enterprise Magazine
John G Breen, Chairman, President Si CEO 
Sherwin-Williams Company
Rawleigh Warner, Jr, Chairman, Mobil Corp.Walter F Williams, President &. Chief Operating Officer Bethlehem Steel Corp

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements Classifieds
Short Story Contest Open: Creative writers are 
invited to enter the 1986 Raymond Carver Short 
Story Contest sponsored by Humboldt State 
University. The winner will receive a $250 cash 
prize and publication in Toyon 86, Humboldts 
literary magazine. Submissions are limited to one 
unpublished, fictional story, not to exceed 25 
double-spaced pages. Two copies of the 
t manuscript should be sent with the authors 
name, address and title of the story, typed on a 
cover sheet. Writers should also include two selfaddressed, stamped envelopes for notification of 
receipt of manuscript and announcement of win
ners and runners-up. Manuscripts will not be 
returned. The judge for the 1986 Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest is Charles Baxter, 
author and recipient of a National Endowment 
for the Arts (NEA) Grant and a Guggenheim 
Fellowship. The entry deadline is December 1, 
1985. Entry fee is $5 payable to the Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest. All entries should be 
mailed to Carver Contest, c/o Department of 
English, Humboldt State University, Areata, CA 
95521. For more information call (707) 826-3758.
Carnegie-Mellon Drama Department Needs
You! Usher twice and you can see the play free. 
The plays are Odon Von Horvaths Tales from 
the Vienna Woods on November 20,21,22,23 and 
George Feydeaus One Acts on December 4,5,6,7. 
For more information call 578-2407.
LOST: Silver Chain and Phoenix Pendant of
sentimental value. REWARD call 687-8596.
WANTED-roommate to share luxury Racquet 
Club apt. Monroeville.$290 (includes member
ship) 856-7248 or 256-2488.
Needed: Teachers,for jewish religious schools! 
Subjects: Hebrew language, religion, history, 
customs and ceremonies, music, dance, drama, 
etc. For further information call: Dr. Ronald A. 
Brauner, Director, The Hebrew Institute, 
521-1100.
Typing ($1.10/d.s. page), Editing, Wordprocessing. Call Karan at 521-8383.
PRIVATE ADOPTION Happily married cou
ple anxious to give baby secure home/future. 
Send first name + phone to P.O. Box 110146, Pitt
sburgh 15232. All replies confidential.
Wanted: Native French student to help me with 
French homework. Salary Negotiable, or if 
preferable, I will help you with your English. Call 
Tina at 682-5726.
$60.00 per hundred paid for remailing letters 
from home! Send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope for information/application. Associates, 
Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203
THANKSGIVING FOR FRIENDS DANCE
for Singles, Ginny Lou Lounge, Rt. 51S, Nov. 23rd 
8:30 till 2:00. $5.00 per person, $6.00 for any 
two guests. Bring a friend and save. Info: 341-4070 
or write The Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh, 
P.O. Box 313, Pgh., PA 15230.
Ruths Pathway for the Contemporary
Woman Bible study on Crisis and Opportuni
ty. Wed. in Nov. 12-12:30 pm, Doherty Hall 2122. 
Run by Lutheran Campus Ministry.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, PO Box 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Word Processing/Typing Services! Resumes, 
case studies, term papers, theses. Call 553-2410 
Mon.-Fri. $1 per page.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO AND 
CAR STEREO EQUIPMENT. CONTACT HAL 
AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 P.M.
PARTY SUPPLIES FOR BIRTHDAYS, WED
DINGS, LUAUS, X-MAS PARTIES, NEW 
YEARS PARTIES AND MUCH MUCH MORE. 
YES, WE EVEN HAVE EYEGLASSES FOR 
YOUR HAMSTER AND
KNUCKLEMAN. . .PAPERMART, 
MOREWOOD AVE AND BAUM BLVD 
681-8900. ITS A NICE WALK FROM CAMPUS. 
DECORATIONS, INVITATIONS, NOVELTIES, 
AND FUN!
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES: WE HAVE 
EVERYTHING FOR YOUR PARTY AT 
PAPERMART.. OVER 10,000 SQUARE FEET 
OF FUN IN OUR PARTY SUPERMARKET. 
BAUM BLVD AT MOREWOOD AVE. 
681-8900. . STROLL DOWN MOREWOOD 
TO A WORLD OF FUN.
BOLD NEON BEER SIGNS, BEER MIR 
RORS, BEER LIGHTS, BEER SIGNS; GREAT 
FOR GIFTS, HOME BARS, DORMS, APTS. 
CALL DAVE AT 963-8840.
Miscellaneous
Bicycler Alert: If you are interested in bicycl
ing cross country this '86 summer, please contact 
Margot at x4590 as I am looking for companions.
Meddy*s Brickyard, Open two nights a week!
College Student Volunteers Needed for the Na
tional Youth Pro-Life Coalitions Thanksgiving 
for Life Convention to be held at the Sheraton 
South Hills on November 29th thru December 
1st. Volunteers will serve as workshop 
moderators, hospitality guides or audio-visual 
aides for a three-hour time slot. Volunteers get 
free registration (which normally costs SI5) to the 
entire convention. For more information contact 
Rebecca Marshall at 624-8811 or write to Box 
1291, 3990 5th Ave., Pittsburgh 15213.
Events20
Wednesday
Movies
19
Tuesday
Movies
Secret Honor, starring Philip 
Baker Hall in a one man show portraying 
Richard Nixon and his presidency. Written by 
Arnold M. Stone and Donald Freed. It premiered 
first at the Three Rivers Arts Festival last sum
mer. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Silent Scream, by Dr. Bernard Nathanson, 
former director of the worlds largest abortion 
clinic. Presentation afterwards by Dr. James Dattillo, obstetrician. Doherty Hall 1112, 7:30 pm.
Recreation
Ta> Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercises. Skibo 12,2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm.
Clubs
Pittsburgh Go Group. GO is an ancient orien
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Student Senate Meeting. Skibo Wherrett Room,
7 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Total System Concept in Building Design,
presented by Jack Gearhart, Vice President, New 
Headquarters Project, TRW, Cleveland. Spon
sored by the Department of Architecture. Wean 
Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Community Events
Peace Vigil. A candlelight vigil in support of 
arms control and reduction will be held on the 
first day of the Reagan-Gorbachev Geneva sum
mit, from 5 pm to 8 pm outside in front of Skibo 
Hall. There will be speakers, music, and other 
entertainment. In case of precipitation or sub
freezing temperatures, the vigil will be held in 
the Skibo Ballroom from 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm. 
Sponsored by the CMU Peace Alliance and the 
CMU Chaplains Association.
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 24 for details.
Cal, starring Helen Mirren, John 
Lynch, Donal McCann. A young Catholic 
teenager is caught up in the turbulence and 
despair of present day Northern Ireland. A Pitt
sburgh premiere. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, by Oden Von 
Horvath. Presented by the Drama Department. 
Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. General admission $7, 
faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5.
Gilbert 8c Sullivans Ruddigore, presented by 
the Pittsburgh Savoyards. Bob Whitley, general 
director, and Rob Plotz, stage director. Antonian 
Hall, Carlow College, 3333 Fifth Ave., Oakland, 
8 pm. General admission is $7. Admission for 
Senior Citizens & Students is $5. For more infor
mation and tickets call 422-5559.
Scotchn Soda presents Line. Mellon Institute 
Auditorium, 8 pm. Tickets $2 at Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
Music
Carnegie-Mellon University Symphony Or
chestra, Wemer Torkanowsky conducting. This 
concert is presented as part of the festivities com
memorating the 150th anniversary of the Andrew 
Carnegies birth. Carnegie Hall, Oakland, 8 pm. 
Burning Spear, with special guests Little 
Women. Graffiti, 4615 Baum, 9 pm. Tickets $9 
at the door, $7 in advance at Graffiti, Heads 
Together, Kaufmanns, and One Love One 
Heart.
Recreation
La Table Francaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
The Hebrew Table. Salads Plus, 12 pm to 2 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Orthodox Christian Fellowship, weekly meeting 
for Bible study and discussions. Skibo 39, 7 pm 
to 8 pm. Everyone welcome.
CMU Astronomy Club. Are you ready for the 
return of Haileys comet? Doherty Hall 2304.
Lectures
Hitlerism and the Holocaust, presented by 
Alfons Heck, former Nazi youth group leader and 
glider pilot, and Helen Waterford, Auschwitz 
concentration camp survivor. Skibo Ballroom, 8 
pm.
Mental Image and Internal Representation,
presented by Chiu-Shui Chan, part of the Ar
chitecture Seminar Series. CFA 206, 12 noon.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 24 for details.
21
Thursday
Movies
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 12,
8 pm. Beginners welcome.
CMU Investment Group, members learn how 
to invest and manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 
6:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 24 for details.
The Lion in Winter, starring 
Katharine Hepburn (Oscar Winner), Peter 
OToole, Anthony Hopkins. Directed by Anthony 
Harvey. A fictional account of Henry II of 
England and his family during one Christmas 
Eve. Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
La Cage Aux Folles. Doherty Hall. 6 pm, 8 pm,
10 pm, 12 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, by Oden Von 
Horvath. Presented by the Drama Department. 
Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. General admission $7, 
faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5.
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the 
Year. For more information call 624-4101.
Scotchn Soda presents Line. Mellon Institute 
Auditorium, 8 pm. Tickets $2 at Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
Music
Convocation: Jazz Choir, Mark Burnell, direc
tor. Alumni Concert Hall, 12:30 pm.
Electronic and Computer Music Concert: Dr. 
Marylin Taft Thomas and James Lovendusky, 
directors. Skibo Ballroom, 8 pm.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
22
Friday
Movies
The Emerald Forest, starring 
Powers Boothe, Charley Booreman, Rui 
Polonah. Directed by John Boorman. A young 
American boy who wanders into the jungle while 
his father is helping build a dam in the Amazon. 
The boy is kidnapped by a jungle tribe. Ten years 
later, the father finds his son, but the son doesn't 
want to return. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:40 pm, 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Beverly Hills Cop. Doherty Hall, 6 pm. 8 pm, 
10 pm, 12 pm. Admission $1.
Accident. A Joseph Losey Director Series. 
Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art Theater, 8 
pm. General admission is $3. Admission for 
members, students, and senior citizens is $2.50.
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, Oden Von Hor
vath. Presented by the Drama Department. 
Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. General admission $7, 
faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5.
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO!" Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafka's Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the 
Year. For more information call 624-4101.
Gilbert te Sullivans Ruddigore, presented by 
the Pittsburgh Savoyards. Bob Whitley is the 
general director and Rob Plotz is the stage direc
tor. Antonian Hall, Carlow College. 3333 Fifth 
Avenue, Oakland, 8 pm. General admission is
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
SKIBO 40A 578 2921
11IrGo homo without m hossfm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanNovember 19, 1985
$7. Admission for Senior Citizens & Students is 
$5. For more information and tickets call 
422-5559.
Scotchn Soda presents Line. Mellon Institute 
Auditorium, 8 pm. Tickets $2 at Skibo Informa
tion Desk.
Music
Graduate Recital: Sangwon Shinn, cello. Col
lege of Fine Arts Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm. 
Sports
CMUs Big Heart Tournament. See Saturday, 
November 22 for more information. 7 pm & 9 
pm.
23
Saturday
Movies
The Purple Rose of Cairo, starr
ing Mia Farrow, Jeff Daniels. Directed by Woody 
Allen. A funny film about a waitress who is 
obsessed with movies, one of the actors leaves the 
screen and falls in love with her. Rated PG. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Gremlins. Doherty Hall, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 
12 pm. Admission $1.
HO ft C JAT3LC 
Wednesdays'^=
anytime 12:00 to 2:00 
in Salads Plus 
EVERYONE WELCOME
m3
**/cFunded by Activities Fee
Study Abroad Through Syracuse University.
Study in one of SU s 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain, and other locations. Grants are 
available for a semester, a year, or a summer of study abroad.
SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!
Marne
Address 
City____.State..Zip
clpei
Phone
School
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244 4170 (315) 423-3471 57
Plays
Tales from the Vienna Woods, Oden Von Hor
vath. Presented by the Drama Department. 
Kresge Theatre, 2 pm. General admission $7, 
faculty $6, students and senior citizens $5.
Music
Graduate Recital: Joy Montgomery, french 
horn. Alumni Concert Hall, 3 pm.
Contempory Ensemble: Leonardo Balada, direc
tor. Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Sports
Mens Cross - Country away meet. NCAA Na
tional Championship.
Swimming away meet at Grove City Relays, 1 
pm.
CMU Big Heart Tournament. Home games 
against Point Park College, La Roche College & 
Pitt-Johnstown, 1 pm & 3 pm.
24
Sunday
Movies
Gone with the Wind, starring 
Clark Gable, Vivian Leigh, Thomas Mitchell, 
Leslie Howard, Olivia De Havilland, Hattie 
McDaniel. Voted Best American Film of all time 
by the American Film Institute in 1977. Oscars 
to just about everybody. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Animal House. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm,
10 pm, 12 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Carnegie-Mellon University Trio Concert:
Harry Franklin, piano; Werner Torkanowsky, 
violin; George Sopkins, cello. This concert is 
presented as part of the festivities com
memorating the 150th anniversary of Andrew 
Carnegies birth. Carnegie Hall, Oakland, 7 pm
Pittsburgh Symphony, Yoshima Takeda con
ducts Copland, Elgar, and Rachmaninov; with 
guest artist Malcolm Frager, piano. Heinz Hall 
2:30 pm. For more information call 392-4821
Organ Recital, Jan Hora, Prague, 
Czechoslovakia. St. Pauls Cathedral, 8:30 pm. 
Admission free.
Bach: CantataSim and Shield, The Cathedral 
Choir. Paul Koch, conductor. St. Pauls, 
Cathedral, 8:30 pm. Admission free.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. Sponsored by 
Student Affairs and the Counselling and Student 
Development Center in Morewood Gardens, E 
Tower, x2922. Tutoring: Calculus Pre, I, II, H] 
in Porter Hall 126 A; Physics in Porter Hall 126 
B; Chemistry in Porter Hall 225 B; English as 
a second language in Baker Hall 135 B; 
Economics in Porter Hall 226 B; Introduction to 
Computing in Wean Hall 5415; Financial Ac
counting in Porter Hall 226 C; Academic Writing 
Problems in Baker Hall 235 B. 7 pm to 10 pm.
25
Monday
Movies
My Dinner with Andre, starring 
Wallace Shawn, Andre Gregory. A talk session 
between a playwright-actor and an avant-garde 
director in a ritzy French restaurant. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 24 for details.
Next Assignment: Your future with Perkin-Elmer
Perkin-Elmer believes the future belongs to 
those who can develop and perfect todays 
technologies to meet tomorrows challenges.
At Perkin-Elmer, the people with this kind of 
vision and ability are quickly recognized and 
well rewarded. These achievers and their 
achievements have enabled Perkin-Elmer to 
be on the leading edge of technology in analytical 
instrumentation, semiconductor processing 
equipment, computers, electro-optical systems, 
and thermal spraying.
Take advantage of this opportunity to launch your 
career with a multi-industry leader who shares 
your interest in your future.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
WILL BE CONDUCTED ON 
Wednesday, December 4
Contact Ybur Placement Office 
For Full Details
An equal opportunity employer.
PERKIN-ELMER
tnNoov mb2av1
j~Save Fve~DIIars!~i
406 South Craig St. j Present This Coupon And
Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
Receive A
HAIRCUT $10
 Chmnm  Hmr Cutting Soaoai Cmc MrWM HmrCoor
 Mens Or 
Womtfii$15
Save Six Dollars! 1 ------------------------------------------------------------i
Present This Coupon And j 
Receive A COMPLETE
9,85 AMERICS
Reg. ,
* Includes: Haircut, Price |
Time to... 
Care More, 
Share More
United Wy

---------------------------------------------------

In celebration of the
150th Birthday of Andrew Carnegie
The Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series
presents two lectures:
I Andrew Carnegie: Right Man, Right Time
presented by Dr. Harold Livesay
author of  Andrew Carnegie and the Rise of Big Business  
and chairman, history department, Virginia Tech
11:30 a.m. Thursday, November 21 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
 Andrew Carnegie: A Millionre s Motivation 's '
presented by Dr. Peggy Farrah
author of Andrew Carnegie: A Psychohistoral Sketch
4:30 p.m. Monday, November 25 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
A birthday celebration will follow

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
Zurk
HI,WE'RE. HERE TO PICK UPA 
TURKE FOR THINKS GIVING.
by Nabil Liumang
Murray the Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
FOR NOR BERTA MADONNA 
POSTER AMD A SwATCtf 
WATCH.
FOR 5AMMY - A WALL / 
AKJD OATE ^ COMPACT 
DISC AND
an i b n
DOTMATRIX 
PR.INJTER.
Poindexterby Don Beyer
Llc AT TMC TApR/vJCrSALAP-y In  urep 
TMe APPL'CAr^N /
rdfTu THey tpr/vie
TO FILL 
WfTW N/UM0P/
1 TH0U6HT 
 4^W A 
D^CtMACP&rNT IN
THeP.
V TOMATO^ 1 *  I,
PAJ OFfpefoo?
r
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh & Co.
<VX^'/<> 'V*L

---------------------------------------------------

November 19, 1985The TartanPage 31
The Top Floor
fff, I JI/ST 
MOVEP IN NEXT POOR AND X 
RYMCI MnSMMS H0ISE...1 THOUGHT 
SOMETHING, MG
VHI/ iM 
5hE71A...IV 
BEHN MEANING 
TO STOP BY 
AND 5AY 
HELIO...
7
sowtx A&oirr IONOISE... MY 
BROTHER AND HIS 
FRIENDS AfcE 
INTO ROLE" PLAYING GAMES/hfjs&r
by M
VlHffl BESPECTACLED fOOL 
DARtST \HTR0Pt 1nto -THfe
Of &1
if -thou toucher  
fA'LOfiP I shall -s 
CUT THEe VJP IMTO 
Pieces 5o s/aalL th, 
K10U6HT R/*A|N$
Puffy Pigby Peter Godlewski
M t 
1
t 1
vnn

TEXTILES ~
(S);
 #
UJ
PUF/TPIG SE2- _ ,Af|/
-yaf
Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw
fThis is my husband George. .. he9s been <y \ 4>;\ 
bringing his work home with him lately  cSSP
BLOOM COUNTYby Berke Breathedprovided by SDCra
Student
Dormitory
Cotuicil
s Farhkn aderfsdrhd veieddvdir
Tartn rNewasarEwwm FwkikFin Fa PFft we lldsnt Fi e 
subject Fa nfwwdi tsrr/WY fw fidcwdurdw Fa their iHfmwce... FwfnI wess/\
/ *
so/A NEW NOSE JOB BYwee, nh T: uFvveiwdw 
oP rhd lk Fa rhd peone. 
dhT m/s is wdvFuseuP
sfi wap."
odrlddi iFl eiw Agkn m TONKjHT, PLEASE PIAI  1-800-555-6001 IF YOU PREFER me NEW. MPRPVEP NOSE 1-800-555-6002 IF YOU PREFER INE OLP, XLHSStCNOSE. OR 1-800-555-6003 IF YOUTHNKTJEVANGELIST PAT
sFodsrnFit lkrhFslrrhFfre EjNp NSjmU ypmU RWyS 'S-GR-E NSHpp H-OEppNS -EU YjH - HpUm'WL-E MUHpyWLBpybIN 1988.
TO HECK WITH pemocracy I lher this COUNTRY NEEPS ISAurne tess nedaEioESp clh F umAFhCM, .UKt ROYAUy/
WHEN YOU REACH OUR SW/TCHBOMP, YOUR VOTE WtU BE INSTANTLYREGtSTEREP.. NT WHICH TVAE HRS. GRABOWSKI HERE WtUmemm.Y nePt *nFssP; PFfsCALL CAN NOT BE COMPLETE,P.' WHICH FOOLS THE PHONE CO.INTO NOT CHARGING US FOR THE CALL.
.. UKE PRINCE CHARLES ANP PIANA WHO. BY THE MAY,
Cfnr vmrep enr ldd,ANP WHO, IF I MAY BE SO 50LP. COULP BOTH USE A UTTie N056 dOWNCr . ^ THUtCf?
A'vmYW.r
WHY PO I HAVE THE FEELING THAT PEMOCRACT ANP HONKER AESTHETICS' MAKE AN EXPLOSIVE COMBINATION ?
UKE HOW I CAME FUU CIRCLE ON THAT ONE 7
/
THE WRY THEY WALK, TALK ..PRESSSIT... LAUGH PELCATELY rrs YAGUE ..ABSTRACT, 1 CANT PUT MY FINGER ON IT...
THE NATIONAL I HR# TOTAL PHONB -IN POUFAITH NTHE MMG OPUS WSypmBCpELp EpR EjNp WN jDpH -EU LjjE pDN Gj yjySL <SjHNp NpENp8 LjUmypH Hjj jYySpEj'm YjH ySp HpNmyN1 -NNpN
WELL / PRMCE CHARLES AMP PIANA HYWE BEEN bONE FOR A WEEK NOW. BUT I GUESS I PONT H/WE TO TEU YOU THAT THE SHOCKmes ARE STILL REVERBERATING* w/v/T?  ... , &KWT  m>WARP SIX, WHERETO, MR SIAM. SCOTTY T
\ /
AHEM.THE RESULTS* ARE AS FOLLOWS.
X the A of emeu <s m* * mmui 8* remetrm* rortn
PRP.THE WOMAN HAS BECOME ATYRANT/. SHE'S (MEN THB BOOT TO ALL OF CHARLES FRfMPS.. RETHROWS SUFFERS AT MM. SPENPS AU US MONEY ON CLOTHES, FIRES 1RS STAFF, MAKES HIM EAT EGGS ANP SPWACH RAH*..ANP OFTEN PRESSES HM UKE 'BOV GEORGE'WHILE SHE PANCESTO'WHAM'** lIEOPARP-SKM TTbHTS.'00*
WELL - UN 1HE UNTAMEP
weidr Fa vFwdserdP jHNypEjGH-USpHNI
COME AWN T
1% YOTEP FOR THE NEW NOSE. IS % YOTEP FOR THE OLP. CLASSIC' NOSE... ANP m% YOTEP FOR MMESHATELY REPLACRKr THIS COMC STRIP WITH PRINCE VALIANT: THOSE LATTER VOTES ARE PISQUALIFIEP.
J4_LU.
WELL YOUTHINK OF A THIS JUST PLANET. ISN'T THE SAMESULU WtTHOUTTHECAPTAIN\ un
\ I
MA6&S//
/ "
vm
'tier
\
OKAY. IMAPE WE 
LAST ONE UP,Bvrrm saENX 
tiMsmsM,,
mewwmf
cvmMw
BUSO Apr YOURFFWCT. nW soutp
w* sa,

---------------------------------------------------

WERE
CHANGINGTHE MEANINGOF THE WORD.
in*no*vator (in'e-va'ter) n. 1. One who begins or introduces something new; one who is creative.2. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES.
AND YOU CAN TOO.
Ideas spark innovation. Imagination fuels 
it. Achievement realizes it.
At The Travelers, we challenge your po
tential so you can strive for innovation.
So let your ideas help shape our future. 
And yours.
Write to: Rubin Fisher, Assistant Director, 
College and Professional Recruiting, Depart
ment 31, The Travelers Companies, One 
Tower Square, Hartford, Ct 06183.
TheTravelersj
The Travelers Companies 
Hartford. Connecticut 06183
