TWELVE MORE DAYS 
BEFORE 
EXAMINATIONS(Jaran
M. M. D. ALUMNAE 
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE 
FRIDAY, DEC. 3
VOL. XV. No. 10.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
I"
AS ARTS DIVISION SHOW
Goodrich, Schmertz, Perkins 
funsters make book. Music 
Dept will furnish scorc.
FREY, AUTHOR OF PIERROT 
SCENE WRITES NUMBER
Plans for the Arts Division Mu
sical Comedy to be held this year 
are already well under way, altho 
the actual production will not be 
made until sometime in February, 
perhaps the eleventh and twelfth. 
Instead of an extravaganza with ela* 
borate scenery and costume effects 
such as was carried out last year, 
the production this year will be 
more in the form of a musical com
edy proper. More emphasis will be 
placed upon the plot, and the acting 
will be a feature of the piece to a 
far greater extent than was the case 
previously.
The committee on the book, which 
is now busy turning out that article, 
is composed of Robert Schmertz, 
George Goodrich and Willard Per
kins, who are considered about the 
best and most original funsters in 
the Division. The plot is a naughtical one, but that is about as far 
as they will divulge it. The songs 
will no doubt be the work of mem
bers of the Music Department, as 
they were for the most part last year, 
and Frey, who wrote the beautiful 
Pierrot Scene for last years produc
tion, will contribute another for this.
The custom of giving an annual 
Musical Comedy which was inaugur
ated last year by the members of 
the Arts Division will, it is hoped 
become one of the traditions of the 
school. It gives the students a chance 
to show what they can do practically 
in almost every line. The Architects 
design and help to build the scenery, 
the Musicians contribute the Musi
cal numbers, the Drama Students 
work along their lines of acting and 
directing, and also help with the 
scenery -and costumes; and even the 
Sculptors will be busy on properties 
and other plastic portions of the 
sets, as they were in the case of the 
elaborate Egyptian set last year.
Taken as a whole, the production 
lends itself very well to the purpose 
of representing the whole Division, 
and with the Heads of all Depart
ments assisting and advising as they 
did and have promised to do this 
year, the show will be n great suc
cess,
ARTS SOPH DANCE SUCCESS
Design Jazz Orchestra Furnishes 
MusicProgram Good.
Awarded a typical Indian Sum
mer evening for the occasion; .f. 
Pluvius being conspicuous by his 
absence; Design School turned out 
in numbers -to attend a dance stag
ed by the Sophomores for the School 
in honor of the Plebe Class. It was 
generally agreed that the affair was 
ope of the nicest informal dances 
that has yet been put on in the 
Division of the Arts.
The music, by the "Design Jazz 
Orchestra, was a mixture of Hertz 
Pepper and Jazz Harmony; you had 
to move when that stuff tickled your 
ear drums. Mrs. Turner's punch had 
just the right tange for dancing peo
ple and was almost too popular, the 
space around the festive bowl being 
somewhat crowded. The naive little 
program, designed by Soph. Sclioepf. 
was indeed a success; your poor dead 
grandfather was forgotten in watch
ing the struggles of Ike and Mike to 
pour out the Soph Dance.
Every effort was made by the 
Sophs to get the dancers acquainted, 
a white card being supplied to each 
person on which his or her name 
w-as written and the card pinned on. 
Another feature was the Hertz Paul 
Jones.
The Chaperons were Air. and Mrs. 
Ray Simboli and Mr. and Mrs. H. S. 
Hubbell, the committee beirig made 
up of Misses Marjorie Van Winkle, 
Dorothy Chalmers, Marion Hick, Mil
dred Williams and Messrs. H. S. Torbert, C. F. Bowers. J. N. Franklin, 
K. H. Snyder, A. G. Kendrick and H.
S. Watterson,- not forgetting Mr 
Henry A Moeser, Treasurer of the 
Class.
INDUSTRIES SOPH DANCE
On December 4th, the Ind. Sophs 
intend to give way to their feelings 
to the extent of one big Industry 
dance. There will be four quarters, 
and each will be more jazzy and pep
pier than the preceding one. All In
dustry men are invited. Tickets on 
sale by any Industries Soph.
M.M.D. SCHOLARSHIP DANCE
Lets Support the Girls  Give 
Wally an A No. 1 Man.
On Friday evening, December 3rd, 
the Margaret Morrison Division Al
umnae are giving a dance for the 
laudable purpose of creating a Mag
gie Murph Football Scholarship. 
When it comes down to brass tacks, 
the girls are always there when it 
comes to boosting the old school 
They're doing it for the school, and 
its the duty pf every man to borrow, 
beg, steal, or if necessary, earn-the 
necessary $1.50. Dont worry about, 
that old dress suit mothers got lay 
ed away in moth-balls, as this is in
formal. Do you want a girl? Ask 
any girl in or around school, she'll 
jump at the chance of going. Let: 
put this over with the hope of giv
ing Wally another A No. 1 man 
for next years team.
The committee in charge: Elinor 
Mellon, 'rg, Chairman; Glenn Sher
iff. 20; Lorna Williams, 15; Helen 
Stewart, 12; Bernice Kruger, 19.
The Chaperons: Pres, and Mrs.
Hamerschlag, Director Mary B. Breed, 
Dean Scales, Miss Roberta Johns, 
Mrs. Helen Anderson Rush, Miss Hel
ene Pope, Dr. Baker.
Tickets are on sale by everyone 
but mostly by Miss Stewart at the 
Alumni office, Miss Kruger in Dean 
Morris office, and at Frank Haarens 
office.
TECH RIFLE CLUB BEGINS 
SHOOTING THIS WEEK
Eighteenth Regiment Armory 
Range to be UsedRifle 
for Every Man.
Meeting Thurs. Evening, Dec. 2
Before this week has parsed by. many members of the Tech Rifle 
Club will be boasting of the Bulls 
eyes" they have hit, and the bulls 
eyes they have not hit; for com
mencing this week one of Techs new 
sports will be in full swing.
The Club was organized on Oct. 
26, with a charter membership of 
one hundred and eleven members. 
At this meeting it was decided to 
produce out of its membership, two 
teams to represent Tech in the In
tercollegiate matches commencing 
the first week in February, each 
year. At present the Club has the 
use of the Eighteenth Regiment Ar
mory indoor range located in the 
second block from the Schenley Ho
tel running up towards Pitt from 
Fifth Ave. The range is available 
from 3:30 p, 111. till 6:00 p. m. on 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday af
ternoon. This indoor range is one 
of the largest and best equipped 
ranges in this vicinity, it Is so fitted 
that seven men will be handled at 
one time.
All indoor shooting will be done 
at seventy five feet with special .22 
calibre armory rifles, and will last 
up until the middle of April, when 
outdoor range work will be taken 
up, with the use of .30 calibre rifles.. 
The indoor work taken up during 
the winter months will prepare ev
ery man to qualify for the three 
ratings offered 011 the outdoor range, 
marksman, sharpshooter and expert 
rifleman. Besides insignias for these 
ratings, the National Rifle Associa
tion offers a medal to the man mak
ing the highest score for the season.
A meeting of all members and 
prospective members will be held 
Thursday evening December 2. in 
Room 102, Arts Bldg., at seven-thir
ty p. 111. Each and every member is 
urged, and requested to be present, 
for at this meeting the days, and 
the specific time of shooting for each 
individual member will be arranged, 
likewise the assignment of rifles-will 
be made. The outline for the sea
sons future doings will be given, and 
the possibilities and probabilities of 
setting up and owning an indoor 
range will be discussed. The necesfContinued on paue 3.)
M. M. D. GIRL vs. DESIGN 
GIRL-FORUM DEBATES
The Carnegie Forum will hold 
the first debate next Tuesday night 
at 8 oclock. The place Will be an
nounced on the bulletin boards. The 
committee selected the following 
propositions for debate: Resolved:
That a M. M. D. girl will be a 
better wife for a Tech" man than 
a Design girl. Resolved: That good 
athletes are of a greater advertising 
value to Tech than good scholars.
There will be two men 011 each 
team or eight in all on the two de
bates. This will assume varied styles 
of delivery and deversified opinions.
Members are urged to be there and 
anyone interested is invited. Th-.* 
"Forum has come to stay and will 
conduct many interesting debates 
this winter which will be announced 
from time to time.
T GIVES ANNUAL SCIENCE NITE SMOKERMYSTERIOUS NIGHT, DEC. 10 
ANNUAL BOHEMIAN REVEL
Dean Mott Urges Reading Gen
eral LiteratureDr. Ihrig 
Comments on Attitude.
Painting and Decoration Dept 
Celebrates in Artistic 
Fashion.
Dec. 18 Science Nite Banquet! See the Smocks Nevervthing
Klannicht, the Science Nite frater
nity, sprang a pleasant surprise last 
Wednesday evening, November 24. 
when it was announced that Science 
Nite classes for the evening were 
dismissed, and everyone was to ad
journ to the Union for a get-togeth
er Smoker. This smoker has been 
given annually by Klannicht for the 
last six years, with one exception 
only, and was always, as in the pre
sent case also, an enjoyable affair.
Mr. Pettay started the ball rolling 
by rapping on the table and calling 
for volunteers to furnish some music 
till the talent arrived. The call was 
answered by Heinz, who played pop
ular songs and led the fellows in 
singing. Dean Mott was the first 
speaker, and gave the Nite men some 
sound advice, as well as encourage
ment. He spoke especially of the 
value of technical literature to the 
technically trained man. but sound
ed a warning at the same .time, not 
to confine reading to technical mag
azines and textbooks only, but to 
take advantage of the large store of 
general literature also, to guard 
against becoming warped and nar
row minded. Dr. Ihrig, head of the 
Nite School of all four Divisions, 
spoke of the value of the English 
language to the students and regret
ted the fact that the curriculm com
mittee found it impossible to sche
dule languages for the Nite men, due 
to the limited time available for 
classes at Nite. He raised a cheer 
when he spoke of the better attitude 
which Nite men in general show towards their work.
All speed records were broken in 
the Pretzel Contest when Patterson 
absorbed the standard number o( 
pretzels, well salted, in the record 
time of one minute, fifty seconds, 
and emitted a whistling  sound to prove that fact. I11 commemoration 
of the event lie was presciited Vi-itrithe hand-painted china pig, appro
priately decorated with pale blue 
ribbon.
President Greenwald made the first 
announcement of the Science Nite banquet, which as he announced, will 
be held the evening of December 18. 
Price and place have not yet been 
decided on. he stated, but a commit
tee is at work to make the banquet 
the best the Nite men have ever been 
privileged to attend.
Mr. Ed. Morgan, one of the found
ers of Klannicht, told of the begin-, 
nings of the society, and of its pur
poses.' He was the last speaker of 
the evening, and the smoker was 
brought to a close by the singinng 
of "Dear Old Tech, led by Mr. 
Heinz at the piano.
RELIEF FUNO FOR
The European Student Relief Fund 
originated as a result of the inves
tigations made by the World Stu
dent Christian Federation and the 
American Relief Administrat ion. The 
hope of these organizations is to re
lieve the pressing needs of the stu
dents and professors of Central and 
Eastern Europe. The relief scheme 
will be as far as possible on sound, 
economic lines, and self help will be 
encouraged in every possible way.
Other students movements, among 
them the British, Australian, South 
African and Dutch, have already un
dertaken relief for the students of 
Europe and have sent large quan
tities of food and clothing.
Will you. THE STUDENTS OF 
AMERICA, after reading and consid
ering the following facts, help in 
making life and education possible 
ling facts were revealed: 
for the students of Europe?
In Budapest, the following starf26% of the students were living 
on two meals or less a day.
33% of the students possessed two 
suits of clothinng or less.
(Continued on page 4.)
DESIGN NIGHT ASSEMBLY
A General Assembly of the Night 
students of all Schools of the Divi
sion of the Arts will be held Thurs
day, December 2d in the Theatre 
of the Division at 8:30 P. M. Pres
ident Hammerschlag will speak tq 
the students 'for a few minutes. 
There will be a little music and 
perhaps a short play .after which 
an opportunity will be given to the 
students to meet and transact any 
business they have on hand. It is 
most important that all registered 
Students are urgently repuested to 
be prompt. Classes will be held as 
usual up to eight-thirty.
Myterious Night, the annual Bo
hemian Revel of the members of the 
Department of Painting and Decor
ation and their friends, will be cele
brated this year on the evening of 
Friday, December tenth. This dance, 
while on a smaller scalc, of course, 
is second only to the Arts Ball, the 
costume affair of the season, as ev
eryone on the campus knows. The 
Artistic atmosphere of Myterious 
Night has always been sustained in 
a most satisfying manner, and the 
dance itself perhaps comes nearer to 
the spirit of the Arts School than 
any other function of the year.
One of the stipulations for . the 
evening is that everyone attending 
must wear a garb of artistic nature. 
Anything from a fancy costume to 
an artists tarn and smock. Some 
of the decorative smocks which have 
been made for this occasion in pre
vious years arc still the joy and 
wonder of all the Division. They are 
always original and sometimes highly amusing.
The large studio on the P.,and D. 
floor is used for dancing, and only 
the tables arc removed so as not to 
destroy the Bohemian character of 
the affair which is maintained 
throughout. Entertainment of a na
ture to correspond with the spirit 
of the occasion is provided during 
the evening, and some very interes
ting stunts are promised.
Last years Mysterious Night wns 
was the most successful one ever put 
over, and if this one comes up to 
the standard in any way, which it 
certainly will, those who are invited 
will have something to look forward to.
MR. SCLZO, MUSICAL CLUB DIRECTOR FOR 10 YEARS
Mr. Scalzo, Graduate from Leip
zig Conservatory, Director 
of P. A. A. Orchestra.
BAWD ISSUES CALL FOR 
TROMBONE PLAYERS
The Carnegie Tech Band is having 
a most successful year. They start
ed right and their display during 
the football season was one of the 
best. But now that the football season is over the band begins in earn
est to build up a repeteriore for the 
many concerts that are planned for 
the next quarter. This requires a 
complete band and they are lacking 
in trombones. The manager requests 
that anyone playing a trombone re
port for practice. Tuesday evenings 
7:30 oclock in the Union. There are 
trombone plabyers in school and the 
band needs them, so answer the call.
TECH PUCK CMS DEFEAT FIFTH AVE. NI 10-0
Coach Gordon pleased with work 
of teamJewel, Schmertz 
show up well
DECEMBER 1, 1920.
SOPHS ALLOW PLEBES 
TO BANQUET FFER RE OF
The Science Plebe Stalled in 
Having Banquet. Sophs Show 
Too Much Pep and Ag
gressiveness.
PLEBES PERSUADE PRES. 
GREEN GO TO CLEVELAND
MR. HODGDON WILL ASSIST
Mr. Gregorio Scalzo will, this year, 
'ake over the directorship of the 
Mandolin Club for his tenth consecuive season. He took over the Club 
for the first time when it was in its 
infancy and since then has developed 
and turned out one good, first class 
mandolin club after another.
Mr. Scalzo has made a wonderful 
record in the musical field. After he 
completed the entire course of studies 
.Deluding the course in orchestra di
rection he went to the Leipzig Con
servatory from which place he gradu
ated. He then took up solo work and 
toured Europe and South America as 
a mandolin soloist. From South 
America Mr. Scalzo came to the 
United States and at his first concert 
;iven at the Waldorf Astoria in the 
presence of a number of the most 
noted critics he was proclaimed to be 
one of the greatest mandolin soloists :n the country.
For four years Mr. Scalzo has di
rected the orchestra in the Eliza'lethian Room of the William Penn 
TIotel and is now director of the or
chestra at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
Mr. Roy Hodgdon, who will make 
his first appearance this year as di
rector of the Glee Club, is by no 
means a new man in connection with 
he musical clubs nor with Carnegie Tech.
Mr. Hodgdon graduated from Tech 
;n the year of 1912 after completing 
^he course in interior decorating. 
While in school Mr. Hodgdon was a 
very active member of the Musical 
Clubs, having been a member of the 
quartette for three years and soloist 
during his last year. Any person who 
was present at the Home Concert 
during the year of 1912 will, no doubt, 
remember the great hit Mr. Hodgdon 
made as soloist for the clubs. Time 
after time he was forced, by the thun
der of applause, to reappear on the 
stage to give encore after encore.
Mr. Hodgdon has had considerable 
experience in directing male choruses, 
having done a good bit of directing in 
various churches and also in a num
ber of industrial concerns. At present 
he is director of the male chorus at 
the Miller Saw Trimmer Company.
With the direction of two such very 
capable men another uccessful year 
in the annals of the Carnegie Musical 
CJubs will be assured.
On Tuesday night December 7th, 
the Musical Clubs will give their 
first concert of the present season 
at Mayview.
This concert at Mayview is an an
nual affair and will this year inaug-1 
urate a very promising season. !
Tech hockey team defeated Fifth 
Avenue High in the first game of 
the season last Friday afternoon at 
Duquesne Gardens by a score of 10-0. 
With some of the best men out of 
the line-up the Plaid puck-ehascrs 
displayed an excellent brand of hoc
key, and received the praise of coach Gordon for their good work.
Team-work was noticable by its 
absence in the first half of the game, 
but the Tartan seven got together 
in the second period and showed 
they werent strangers to each other. 
Jewel and Schmertz were the largest 
individual point makers,- being re
sponsible for the biggest part of the 
scoring. Dickey, Andrews and Hilde
brand each managed to cage the 
puck once. Little opportunity was 
afforded the defense men to get into 
action as Tech's goal line was never 
in danger, the disk being kept in 
Fifths territory the majority of the 
time.
Coach Gordon made soveraj sub
stitutions during the latter part nt 
the game so that he might see all 
his action and was greatly pleased 
with the material he has on hand. 
.N'.imoj;ous errors in individual and 
team play came up during the eontest which he will endeavor to cor
rect in the future practice sessions. 
Summary:
Tech10 Fifth Avenle11
Martollo ............Goal................. Maud 'I
Dickey ...................C. P  Levinson
iviertz .............;.....P............ Shelby
Hildoxrand .......II. W................. Ludln
Schmertz ..........R.W.. Miller
Andrews .................L.C................. Schwartz
Jewell ....................C................ Nesvisky
Substitutions: Tech; Lamphear for 
Hildebrand, Jones for l.amphear, 
Marlhia, Lynch. Shememan, Miller, 
Fifth; Fishbino for Shelby,
Goals; Jewell 4, Schmertz An
drews r, Dickey 1, llildeband 1.
Officials: Referee, Schmertz, Pitt. 
Judges, Levinson of Fifth, and Mur
ray of Tech.
23 PLEBE STATISTICS
Freshmen have been wondering why 
they were subjected to such a search
ing personal examination and asked 
to answer questions of married 01 
single and if so, why not? type. 
The records of last years Science 
Plebes will prove of interest to them, 
as well as to the school as a whole, 
since Plebe classes correspond in a 
general way lrjin year to year.
Last years class, however, was dif
ferent from most in that such a large 
number of men had been out of sclioo. 
for a year or more, due to the war 
which gav_ the class as a whole an 
older age average. That these men 
were richer in experience, no one wih question.
The Depaitmcnt of Psychology 
took the records of four hundred ant. 
seventy piebes. Of these:, -ixty-fivc 
per cen'; came from Pennsylvania ane 
thirty-five per cent from the Pitts
burgh district. Seven per cent were 
born outside of the United States. 
These foreign-born men were as suc
cessful in completing the year as the natives.
 Financially, seventy-four per cent 
were partly or whclly dependent upon 
their own efforts, one in five being en
tirely self-supporting. Forty-four per 
cent planned to earn part or all of 
their expenses during the year.
Those with working experience 
were ninety-three* per cent, but thirtp 
three per cent had less than six 
me nibs of such experience. Nine per 
years or more.
It iti worthy of note that those 
whose schooling had been interrupted 
were, on the whole, as successful as 
the others in finishing the years 
work. In fact, more than five year;; 
out of school seemed to be favorable. 
Of last years cla;,H, thirty-four per 
cent had an interruption of six months 
or more, and one-fourth, a year or 
more. Nearly one-fourth were above 
(Continued on page 4.)
"The flatter the plate the fewer 
the soup." Such was the slgan of 
the Sophomore Class of Science in 
their recent drive to prevent holding 
of the Science Plebe Banquet. In 
fact so devoted were the Sophs to 
the cause that when banquet time 
approached the plates were not only 
flat but one might say they were 
convex and the soup would have re
mained in them about as long as 
water 011 a ducks back.
Things began to stir 011 Thursday 
before tin* \Y. & J. game. Faint ru
mors were heard of the possible 
proximity of the affair and immedi
ately the Sophs set to work. Griggs. 
President of the Plebe Class, was the 
first object of attack and for two 
days remained the prisoner of the 
wielders of the rod." He was releas
ed, however, on Saturday morning 
to see the \V. & J. game and need
less to sav was never again in trou
ble.
The Plebe's awaiting the "pyschological" moment captured Gree.11, 
president of the Sophomore Class, on 
Saturday evening taking him to Hen 
Avon for the evening. Hut that was 
to close to the campus so promptly
oil Saturday morning he was remov
ed to Cleveland. Here he was treat
ed no longer as a prisoner but rather 
as just one of a jolly crowd and 1 
merry time was had by all. Monday 
evening ho was returned to Pitts
burgh and held at the Seventh Av
enue Hotel.
In the interim very "confidential" 
conferences could be discerned here 
and there on the campus and it wns 
plain to all that the Sophs were 011 
the war path. Permanent headquar
ters were established at the Fort 
Pitt Motel -if having* been learned very hlgen lon.dy, Hod the banquet
was to take place there on Tuesday 
evening. Kvery station In town wn . 
guarded in the hopes of catching 
Green as he was returning, and con
stant watch was placed over every 
entrance to the Hotel.
The time lor the banquet came 
and as the I'lehe's appeared in two'; and fours they were politely ushered 
to two special freight cars, li wav. 
thol by I he Sophs t li;it if (Jrenu did 
not return that evening the banquet 
might Itransferred to Cleveland, 
The IMebes however did not "use 
that kind of a slide rule" and had 
they been shipped to Cleveland, I 
venture to say that only the truelu 
of the cars would have reached their 
destination. The Sophs found it nec
essary to use water and other ini 
plements of war to quiet the impris
oned onesand by the time hostili
ties ceased the two box cars looked 
like a latticed garden house.
The section loaders were a little 
more fortunate for early Tuesday 
morning they were removed to tins 
jail otherwise known as Dormitory 'Six.
Some special hawser line had been 
brought in from a trans-Atlantic 
traveler and applied to Green along 
with a supposedly well secured gag. 
In this condition he was furnished 
with a taxi, generally used for an 
ambulance, and shipped to the 
Port Pitt Hotel. On the way down 
by some herculean effort he removed 
the gag and immediately on his ar
rival called for help. Of course he 
was rescued and with this point set
tled it was decided to let the banquet proceed.
The order for the Cleveland Special" was recinded and a total of 
sixty five Plebes were marched into 
the feast. President Green, upon in
vitation afterwards addressed the 
Plebes praising them for their spirit 
and thanking them for the treat
ment and good time he had.
The whole affair was in keeping 
with the spirit of last week. Each 
side acted practically as a unit anti 
did its utmost for their cause. The 
general spirit of friendliness which 
followed the fray is to be especially commended.
WHERE IS MUH CHEE-LD?"Where is mull chee-ld? is the 
title of the playlet which will en
tertain subscribers of the Annual 
Dorm Hop to be given by Dorm Lory 
I and f>, Dec, 10 in the Union,
This little play is taken from be
hind the scenes of one of the biggest-comedy drama, now playing on 
Broadway and will be depicted by 
the Dirty Dozen from the fourth 
Moor of Dorm (>. This wonderful 
little drama makes its Mrst private 
appearance in Pittsburgh, Dec, 10-  
The Arts Orchestra will furnish, and 
something different in the way of 
decorations and programes are plan
ned, Subscriptions $1,50.

---------------------------------------------------

TWEL two.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY,.DECEMBER 1, 1920.
0% (Haran
Published every week by undergraduates of the Curneifie Institute of 
Tochaoloiry under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in tho postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Editor-in-chief ..................................................................................Lawrence Paquin
Bugine* Manager ................................................................................Don A. Sillers
Schenley 9211
Bill SaysEDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
William I). Hull 
Assistant Editora .1. T. Amca Fred. L. Knowles
Athlotic Editor 
Stuart P. Smith 
N cwn Editor 
Donald S. Harding
Divisional AssistantsM. M. D.............................Helen LewisArts...........................V. II. Stromquist
Science.................Industries............
... I. Sissman Jj. K. Biever
Night Editor Edward A. Brand 
Exchange Editor Kenneth Arnold
Cartoonist.................
Photographer...........
M. G. Winalow 
. It. H. Guyton
BUSINESS STAFF
Circulation Manager 
William H. Obenour 
Assistants on Business Staff 
Robert Mills Walter Heilc)
Ackerman 1). SonnemannLU .___________________
The Editor-in-Chief VM responsible 
aging Editor Tor tho make up.
for the policy of this paper; the ManEXCHANGES
OUR SUPER-SOPIIISTICATEI) NEIGHBORS
A certain amount of reserve is a wonderful tiling. It is :> great asset 
to be so blase that even the greatest kind of a victory cannot so much 
as stir one from ones staid and placid calm. Year after year of celebra
ting sensational football conquests by declaring a holiday the next day 
and sleeping in to commemorate the occasion naturally dulls on s appre
ciation of the finer values of a real spirited exhibition ol pep. Ibis being 
the case it is no wonder that our friends across the valley were led to 
remark with scorn upon Tech's plebeian and even bourgeoise demonstra
tion of the memorable Saturday and Monday. We arc glad that this is 
so. We should hate to think that we had become so dignified that we 
could not show enough spirit and loyalty to appreciate what our team, 
working against odds which our worthy critics never can realize and 
never will experience lias accomplished. We have had*to be exhorted by 
members of our teams to come out and root for them. We have some
times railed at ourselves for our own good, but every man in a Plaid 
athletic organization has always realized that the student body is with 
him to a man. We are young, and we are perhaps over-enthusiastic. If 
so, we thank the powers that be that such is the case. We neither need 
nor desire chastisement which our worthy living dead on the other bill 
have signified their willingness to administer.
WELCOME
Altho this seems rather late for a word of welcome, a copy of the Tech
nical Journal which is the latest addition to the list of Campus publica
tions has just come to our hand. The paper shows promise, and we wish 
to take this opportunity to congratulate the publishers of this worthy 
contemporary, and wish them all success.
ROSES AND EGGS
Last spring we became posscscd of the idea that a column in the 
Tartan where those who had a grievance against anything or anyone in 
particular or in general, might air their views to their hearts content, 
would bo a good thing. With that end in view, and a contributor who 
was willing to air his views in order to "start something, what is still 
known as "Bills Column was made a part of the paper. Bell was rather 
radical at times, and he succeeded in starting at least no heated and 
instructive argument.This year, Bill's Column has been carried on after a fashion, but no 
one has come forward with an opinion which varied enough from the 
majority to cause any discussion. It was at one time intended to change 
tho name of the column, and call it the Open Forum, but an organization 
in tho school desired to use a very similar name, and the idea dropped.
Now there comes a contribution which shows enough feeling to stir 
up those who think differently than does the writer, and we think it 
worth while to print it under Bills Column. At the same time, it is only 
fair to explain tlmt Bill has nothing to do with tho contribution. The 
column is to bo considered as a clearing house for opinions on all ques
tions of tho student interest. Contributions are welcome, and solicited. 
If you have any pot theory which may interest the student body, write 
it down, sign it, and drop it into the Tartan Box, addressed to Bills 
Column. Tho name of Ibo writer will not be published, but it is evident 
that unsigned contributions are worth nothing, Wo liopo that the Hazing 
question will bring out some replies,
GIVE THIS PLEBE IIIS DUE
Thu practice at Tech and in fact at any school is to ltd the Pluno do 
"it" when it comes to any real labor. Tlds was adhered to in the case of 
biuldlng tho new stands at Tech Field during the last few weeks, and the 
lowly freshman answered nobly. We cant help but feel Him! a vote of 
thanks is due those who worked so well, even though tho work was expected of them.
STUDENT CALENDAR
December ;vAlumni Dance................................................................................Union
December ,jSophomore Industries Dance to
All Industries Students....................................................Union
December ioDorms No. 4 and G Dance......................................................Union
December 11M. M. D. Guild Bazaar............................................................Union
December 18First day of Christmas Recess.
FALL QUARTER REGISTRATION 
DAY SCHOOLS
Division of Engineering and Science................................................................ 1006Division of Industries........................................................................................... 5(34
Margaret Morrison Division ............................................................................. 329
Division of the Arts............................................................................................... 344
Division of Applied Psychology.......................................................................... 78
Total ................................................................................................................... 2,321
NIGHT SCHOOLSDivision of Engineering and Science................................................................. 446
Division of Industries .....................................................................................   974
Margaret Morrison Division ................................................................................ 72
Division of the Arts........................................................207
Division of Applied Psychology.......................................................................... n
Total ................................................................................................................... ^ 710
Total Registration . ................................................................................4 031
FOOD FOR THOUGHT
"I should have known better than to 
have oaten that, mother-in-law soup", mused the stricken cannibal as he 
sought the medicine man, "She never did agree with me, anyhow,"
YOU NEVER CAN TELL
1 met a plebe the other day. and 
lie was wondrous wise. He shunned 
the wicked Maggies gay; he scorned their naughty eyes. 1 grasped that 
chappie by the hand, he had the per
fect dope, 1 lauded him throughout 
the land, his future shone with hope. But woe, alas, the other night 1 
went to visit Claire, arid lo, to my 
astonished sight, that cursed plebe
was there. I hesitated in the hall, 
my thots were dark and glum, if he 
had not been quite so tall, he'd gone 
to Kingdom Come. But I went in 
and sat me down; I thot I'd stay 
him out. The dirty cuss, he stuck 
around 'till one or thereabout. I bad 
to leave to catch a car and don't 
know when he went; 1 don't know 
that 1 ever saw a more persistent 
gent. He seemed to he the family 
pet on most familiar terms, I vowed 
right there I'd got him yet and 
make him food for worms. He took 
her to his manly chest, he did it 
with a vim. then joked about my 
fancy vest, O! What I'll do to him. 
To-day I met him here at school, 1 
thought I'd cut him dead. 1 knew 
him for a simple fool, but this is 
what he said, "I'm glad you called 
the other night." My thots burned 
to a blister. "Belcive me, kid, Claire 
is alright. How do you like my sister?
The moral is: Oh! Gents, go slowAnd never judge before you know.
Specific proofs of evolution, i. e., 
that man, despite Pittsburgh's pros
perity, is relatively near the atoneage, are rather frequently being ob
served iri the pleasures of the soph
omore class. They delight in their 
infliction of cleanliness upon thq 
plebes by the forcible use of variou.-. 
basins ranging from a blue print 
wash tub to a reservoir; they set 
new hair modes for both sexes; they 
stamp the frosli with head bits to 
subordinate his supposedly super
normal head and most marvellous oi 
all is the thrill of those august bodies 
(they call themselves so, so they 
must be so,) who conduct what they 
term councils for the keeping oi 
school rules made by some now far 
flung groupe of ex-sophomores. Amen
All well and good you say and 
you are with the majority and of 
course the majority is always right. 
But J, being merely in the minority, 
most humbly protest, and as every
one has a right Lo the airing of his 
own opinion in this country, let me 
please but air mine, tho it be a little 
to the adverse of the majority.
Now - does that sort of thing ever 
do anybody any good? Are we in the 
higher institutions still governed bj 
less than infantile methods of noth
ing better than a howling mob ol 
bourgeoise? if we learn the rules oi 
culture and conducts of dignity, is 
it often out in our perfect system of 
commercialism? Ara we still a small 
town high school? Do we represent 
higher learning? Then why in the 
name of all the orthodox hold holy 
and the unorthodox hold unpliable, 
do we adopL methods of the best 
known rules for near perfect ladies 
and gentlemen?
Force never overcame an idea, 
right or wrong. The only thing that 
can overcome a wrong idea is a 
right one and most certainly the on
ly thing that can overcome a right 
idea is a better one. "Spirit. If we 
didn't have hazing, we wouldn't have 
spirit. What kind of spirit can be 
got by force? The same kind of spir
it that is forced by the invading 
army upon the subjected country. 
If, on the other hand, the stronger 
would protect and be a brother t:o 
the weaker, what real kind of spirit 
might not result? You may talk as 
you please of "No hazing, no spirit. 
I11 one of the largest middle western 
universities, hazing does not exist 
and yet in that institution, students 
have never failed to support their 
alma mater. They have never failed 
to root the harder for their loosing 
team. They have never failed to 
plap their defeated teams on the bade instead of throwing in their faces 
that it was their fault: they didn't 
win. That university has a respect 
for its scat of learning that lives as 
an inspiration to mend the bad qual
ities.
The majority accept the hazing in 
a sportsmanlike manner so as to be
come greater liazors their next year 
Hut there are a few in this Institute 
whose temperament does not go with 
majority. There are those who are 
not understood by oven our prosaic 
lot, The unorthodox God in making 
his few of mankind made them of 
the lot which gives understanding, 
which given, however does not lessen in the least horror of the torture 
inflicted by tho majority. I mean 
simply that an artist resents, with
out being physically or biologically 
able to do otherwise, any infringe
ment of the majority upon his per
sonal self and peculiarities. But th 
pharisees, worldly-wise, think to drag 
this queer lot out of their channels 
into viler pleasures. "Make a man 
out of him, is their motto. And 
look at the man they would make 
him. A Future Captain of Industry, 
contributing to an already over liellized world of damned souls. Spirit, 
spirit, the undaunting spirit of pro
gress with its worship of the al
mighty dollar. Would the majority 
in its blindness, take away the faith, 
the childlike faith of the artist in 
mankind and his fellow-men and 
make him cynical? Why cant the 
majority merely leave the plebe and 
especially the artist plebe alone? 
If it cant do the big thing, for after 
all evolution is a slow process and 
we cant expect the milenium over
night, why cant the majority leave 
youth to find himself? Respect can only be gained by respecting-.
A Junior.
Note: The name of the writer and 
of the University mentioned in this 
article may be had upon application to the Editor.
The University of California leads 
American Universities in enrollment 
of full time four year degree course 
students with a total of 11,154.
Girl swimmers ol the University 
of Utah have organized a swimming 
club.
Engineers of the University of 
Penonsylvania have chsen "The Nut 
Factory by C. L. Simon, 21 for pro
duction at their annual show.
Of 62 captains of college football 
teams in this section of the country 
30 are line men.
STARTLING STATIATICS
Did you know that:
Andrevr Carnegie was not born in Skibo Inn?
Dean Tnrbell does not sleep in hi, dress suit?
Professor Goeckler once thot that 
two and two equaled three?
The Graduate Manager does manage the grauates?
There is a flapper in Design W 
does not use lip-stick?
(Name on request to reliable parti. ..,
Our own Tustin and Brady chariot 
was never used by Ben llur?
Maggie Murph is not the name an Irish martyr?
Dr. Esquorre is no relation to Lydia Pinkhnm?
All science grads do not become 
street car conductors, some turn out to be white wings?
Benzine is often harmful to stomach?the
Ohio State is conducting a cam
paign to raise a million dollars to 
be used 11 building a huge horse
shoe stadium capable of seating 63- 
000 peoplethe largest in the country.
The Spanish department of the 
University of California has arrang
ed a serives of five entertainments, 
consisting of illustrated travel talk? 
and songs and dances with Spanish 
costumes and setting's.
The only Sunday College paper is 
published by the University of Mich
igan. It contains feature articles 
written bv the faculty and students.
Girl (at game)But dont they 
get awfully dirty?
FreshYes, but you see, we have 
our scrub team.
Princeton has challenged the Un
iversity of California to a debate 
during the Christmas recess, and has 
been accepted.
: First Church of Christ, Scientist
CLYDE STREET
: 0
I Services Sunday11 A. M.and 8 P. M.: Wednesday Testimony: Meeting 8 P. M.; Sunday School. . .11 A. M.
^ ALL ARE CORDIALLY : INVITED TO ATTEND.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
ORDAYAS 8:30, 8:00, 3:00, 10:00 nix) 11:*0L M. on Sunday and Holy Day.
Vespers on Sunday at 7:80 P. M.
Pew 68, Middle Aisle, for Tech Students.
DUCK BOYS!
George"He was. 1-Ie quailed ev
ery time lie heard a shot.
Chaporral.
CRAMPED
Kindly Man to Prisoner"You 
seem lo be in a tight place, my poor 
man.
roomy for a guy with loose habits 
like mine. Gargoyle.
Physiol Prof.What do you know 
about cells?
StudentNot very much, sir. Ive 
only been in two.Gargoyle.
M. I. T. has an organized Chess 
Club which plays matches with other 
eastern clubs.
llUKin!IIWliniHfflllll!imilllllimiinaniWl!HII!linWllll!!:ilil!!:!!H!,l!l!!IilllltlBUU^ 
WEVE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS |
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON I
SHOES AND HOSIERY fi 
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 1
MENS BROGUES
$12.00 to $16.00 |
We are showing; a fine lot of g 
newFall and Winter Broques g at prices that are going to g 
make them very popular, in 
CORDOVAN - BOARDED 1 
CALF AND SCOTCH g 
GRAIN 
OXFORDS AND BOOTS ..
STETSONS 1
OXFORDS AND BOOTS 1 
$13.00 to $16.00
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:Sunday School9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for students, 15c, at 6 oclock.Christian Endeavor7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Head and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefleid and Fifth Avenue
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister
Preaching Service 11 and 8.Sunday school at 10. |ChrlBtlan Endeavor at 7.
Wo want the Tech boys to attend our services and learn to know RBF as the congregation of Friendly People. A hearty welcome awaits you.
MWWH
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenue 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to alL
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers' Equipment, lnstru>, ments of Precision, Blue Print , and Brown Print Papers and , ,  Cloths.
: b, k. elliott co.::
! 12 8IXTH STREET
Patronize TARTAN Advertisers
MM i
What Is Air?
EFORE 1894 every chemist thought he knew what air is. A 
mechanical mixture of moisture, nitrogen and oxygen, with 
traces of hydrogen and carbon dioxide, he would explain. 
There was so much oxygen and nitrogen in a given sample that he 
simply determined the amount of oxygen present and assumed the rest to be nitrogen.
One great English chemist, Lord Rayleigh, found that the nitro
gen obtained from the air was never so pure as that obtained from 
some compound like ammonia. What was the impurity? In 
co-operation with another prominent chemist, Sir William Ramsay, 
it was discovered in an entirely new gasargon. Later came the 
discovery of other rare gases in the atmosphere. The air we breathe 
contains about a dozen gases and gaseous compounds.
This study of the air is an example of research in pure science. 
Rayleigh and Ramsay had no practical end in viewmerely the dis
covery of new facts.
A few years ago the Research Laboratories of the General Electric 
Company began to study the destruction of filaments in exhausted 
lamps in order to ascertain how this happened. It was a purely 
scientific undertaking. It was found that the filament evaporated 
boiled away, like so much water.
Pressure will check boiling or evaporation. If the pressure within 
a boiler is very high, it will take more heat than ordinarily to boil the 
water. Would a gas under pressure prevent filaments from boiling 
away? If so, what gas? It must be a gas that will not combine 
chemically with the filament. The filament would burn in oxygen; 
hydrogen would conduct the heat away too rapidly. Nitrogen is a 
useful gas in this case. It does form a few compounds, however. 
Better still is argon. It forms no compounds at all.
Thus the modern, efficient, gas-filled lamp appeared, and so argon, 
which seemed the most useless gas in the world, found a practical application.
Discover new facts, and their practical application will take care of itself.
And the discovery of new facts is the primary purpose of the 
Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company.
Sometimes years must elapse before the practical application of a 
discovery becomes apparent, as in the case of argon; sometimes a 
practical application follows from the mere answering of a theoret
ical question, as in the case of a gas-filled lamp. But no substantial 
progress can be made unless research is conducted for the purpose of 
discovering new facts.
emu
General OfficeiralEleetric
Schenectady, N.Yt

---------------------------------------------------

fact:
All through hint Benson 
nt the Polo Ground, New 
Vorlc, the Giant'a home 
field, the * * fillin' ' in the 
(traiulstiind an well an the 
hlcachcm, bought more 
Fati m;iu than any other 
cigarette.
In one way, at least, 
smoking is just like eating
TOY25 cents
hi the reputar fotl-'turafificd 
pnckuyc. slho obtainable In 
round Jim TIQIIT tiniof O.
TECH RIFLE CLUB BEGINSSHOOTING THIS WEEK
EDWARD BROS.,
ANN ARBOR, - MICH.
Christmas Presents!
(Buy now to get beet selections) 
Wallace Nutting Pictures and Calendars 
Inexpensive Novelties with Greetings Fountain Pens Eversharp Pencils Leather GoodsMonogrammed Stationery and Die-Plate with Calling Cards. Beautiful Cards and Booklets. 
(1000 styles.)
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
JENKINS ARCADE
Your Checks 
I Carry Two Names |
your name and the |
name of your bank. The 1
| name of a strong bank\
\ ing institution on his |
or her checks is of value |
to the depositor. Pres|
j tige counts.
Capital and Surplus,
$! 1,124,136,20
Mellon National Bank
Pitt sjjg^yih. Pa.
WEDNESDAY, -DECEMBER 1,1920. THE TARTAN. PAGE THREE.
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM 
Beit Meals at reasonable prices
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
DO YOU DANCE?
Dmcing Lesson 
Class and Private
Jacques Dancing Academy
Craig and Forbes
;Ui!iBI!!llIlHIlUUlQiilll!li!lillll!IliStiilllllUDilU!ilUllii!linilllllliliiliniUillIIIIBl!IlP
Schsnley 5120
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. W*rnr, Prop.
Oakland's Most Popuar Eating Placa"
^imauiuuiUiia^uiuuuiUiuuiiiiinnui^uittiuuiiswrKiiunaiiaiwyfiHimg
TMBMSIOP !
NEAREST TO TECH j
Cor, Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency
f BELLEFIELD f 
:: SHOE REPAIR j
; Finest Work *
:: OPPOSITE LIBRARY |
On the Plaidj Screen
By Stuart P. Smith.
BASKETBALL PROSPECTS
With the passing of the football season and the postmortems about 
over, we are now looking ahead to next month when Tech opens the 
hardest basketball schedule it has ever attempted. How will the team 
shapa up and what are the prospects for closing it successfully, are the 
big queitions. This is how things stand. Four letter men from last years 
Varsity are back and five from the Freshman team. Half a dozen Fresh
men are out for the squad who came here with excellent high school 
reputations, and there are forty candidates in addition to those mentioned 
to pick from. Our new coach, Hal Iddings, has had a wealth of experience 
and his record shows he knows how to mould a championship team. On 
the other side of the ledger, stands that old bogie to all Tech cage men, 
a small gym to practice in. If Iddings can overcome this handicap and 
tutor his men so they wont become lost when they play on a large floor, 
ne should turn out a team that will be able to give such aggregations as 
Penn State, W. Va., and W. & J. a real battle.
OTHER BASKETBALLERS
Reports are beginning to come in from the colleges on our basketball 
schedule and they will indicate these institutions are going to be repre* 
sented t his winter by strong teams. Coach Stadesvoid at W. Va. is 011 
the job and has five veterans to start practice with. At Grove City where 
they have a knack of turning out high-class quintets, Coach Thorn has 
been putting his proteges thru the traces for ever a month. He has three 
old men back from last year, among them Capt. Joe Smith who was the 
best forward seen on the Tech floor last year. Penn State has four letter 
men back and Lehigh three.
PITT
The extra bleachers which were set up at Tech field for the W. & J. 
game were loaned to the school by the University of Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association without charge. The Pitt football squad were our guests at 
the game and they entertained our squad with sideline seats at the State 
game. We thank them very much for these courtesies and know all Tech 
men appreciate them.
SOME MORE PITT
Listen to what our neighbors across the valley have to say in the Pitt 
Weekly about the W. & J. game which we are afraid surprised them more 
than it did us.
Tech beat W. & J. for the same reason that they always held us to a 
low score. Playing the Saturday before Thanksgiving, it was their big 
game to which they had pointed the entire year. Coming between W. & 
J. and State, it was always one of our so-called easy games. Coming be
tween Pitt and West Virginia the same applied to W. & J. last Saturday. 
The psychological difference between a team on edge and a team taking 
it easy explains everything."
There may be a bit of truth in this, but look out Pitt this new psycho
logical difference alibi may not be as easy to shovel out a few years 
hence as it is now.
sity of a range on the campus looms 
up as being very essential; for one 
of the most difficult tasks encoun
tered by the officials of the club, 
was the procuring of the range in 
use at present. It was through a bit 
of strategy that the consent for its 
use was given for the three after
noons, however, the officials seetn 
far from satisfied; for its their hope 
and wish that the club will possess 
a range that may be used at *\ll 
times.
Regarding the two teams, there 
will be a varsity, and a freshman 
team with each team consisting of 
ten men. The ten places will be held 
each week by the ten men posessing 
the ten highest scores from the pre
vious week. This gives every man 
the opportunity to be one of the ten 
men on the team. All details for in
suring good work, and rapid pro
gress has been worked out. A sys
tem has been arranged by which 
every man will shoot with the same 
rifle each time. At present there are 
twelve rifles to carry on indoor work 
and it is expected that before long 
there will be around twenty on hand. 
So with over one hunderd and fif
teen to pick from, and plenty re
serve, the Rifle Club promises two 
teams that will be like every Tech 
team in fighting for Tech.
"Pitt Soph President Kidnapped" 
headed the Plebc Banquet write-up 
in one of the down-town papers-- 
wonder if the editor knows there are 
two schools out in Oakland.
Northside Gun Battle60 Tech 
Kreshies Kidnapped, Shipped away 
in Box Cars, says one paper in head
liners across the front pageand 
they sold out.
FJ
Tech is very fortunate in securing 
the services of a man of the type 
of Frank Willard Moses as the head 
of their Physical Education Depart
ment. As a man to fill this position 
on the Tech Faculty, he is every
thing that should be desired. His 
training is just what it should have 
been, while on top of this, he has 
had valuable experience that will 
stand him in good use in his work 
here. "Man to man, "Fellow to fel
low, he is just the sort of a Good 
Scout that it takes to run a Gym
nasium, he is that sort of a fellow 
that is always ready and willing to 
help the other fellow out in his 
troubles. Mr. Moses doesnt seem to 
be a member of the faculty, rather 
on the contrary, he has always seem
ed to be one of usand such is 
just the way a "Gym teacher should 
be.
Before his affiliation with Car
negie Tech, ho was Associate Phy
sical Director at the Y. M. C. A. >1 
Worcester, Mass., and before his 
connection there, was Director of 
Physical Education and Coach it 
Sangara Boys School, of Vancouver. 
B. C., Canada. At this school, luhad complete charge of all athletic 
teams put out by the school, includ
ing hockey, football, baseball, track, 
and swimming. His training for this 
work was received at the Y. M. C. 
A. College of Physical Education at 
Springfield, Massachusetts. Before 
entering the Y. M. C. A. College 
he had attended the Goddard Sem
inary, of Bane, Vermont.
His Athletic work at the Goddard 
Seminary consisted of football, track, 
and hockey. In football, he has the
E GIN ill DRILL INJUNDAMENTALS
Several Games Scheduled with 
Ohio Teams During Christ
mas Vacation.
With the termination of the foot
ball season basketball will furnish 
the flashes and thrills during the 
coming fall months. The squad of 
.jo men is out daily under the guid
ance of Hal Iddings and is progres
sing rapidly in the fundamentals of 
basketball; along such lines as drib
bling, pivoting, passing and shooting.
Light scrimmages* were held last 
week with Gibson, Dosey, and Allen 
showing ood form. However, the var
ious teams picked seem to bo about 
evenly matched and iddings will 
have a difficult job in picking his 
first varsity lineup. In order to ob
tain a better idea of his men Hal 
has decided to schedule a few games 
during the Christmas vacation thru 
Ohio, with industrial teams. In all 
probability there will be about four 
games and in these, Hal expects to 
sort the diamonds from the rough.
Practice will be held every night 
until vacation time, with a few prac
tice games possibly thrown in.
benefit of two years playing at Left 
Half. In track, lie also had two years 
experience, having run the 100, 220 
and 440 yard races. At hockey, he 
also played, having to his credit one 
year on the Right Wing.
At the Y. M. C. A. College, he has 
to his credit one year on the soccer 
football team, at Outside Right; one 
year playing at Right Wing in Hoc* 
key; and three years of track, run
ning in the 100 and 220 yard dashes.
Before the War
a pacaseDuring the War
and 
a package
The Flavor Lasts 
So Does the Price!
ALAN BRiCHT TELLS OF 
HOCKEY EXPERIENCE
Alan Bright, former College Hoc
key Star Expresses Satisfaction 
over Revival of Hockey at Tech 
I am very glad to note the re
vival of Hockey as a major sport at 
Tech. Mr. Bright told the writer." In 
this branch of inter-collegiate ath
letics. to years ago, Tech was rated 
with the best college teams.
Lack of natural and artificial ice 
in recent years compelled the ath
letic association to abandon this 
branch of activity, but now with 
the Duquesne Gardens re-opened, it 
will be possible for us to regain the 
place which we formerly held.
Pittsburg has always taken an ac
tive part in this sport, and when the 
Gardens were first opened, followers 
of the sport will recall that the best 
school and professional teams of 
North America met here, to compete 
for championships.
In those days the following teams 
were usually on Techs schedule, 
Yale, Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania 
State, Pitt, Troy Poly-Tech, Case, 
Western Reserve and others.
In the winter of 1909-10 the Var
sity C was awarded to the Tech 
Hockey team for winning the Penn
sylvania Championship.
Formerly, it was an annual event 
to hold in Pittsburg, the contests in 
speed skating, for the worlds cham
pionship, and reference to the Amer
ican Amateur Athletic Association 
records, bears out this statement. 
The 660 yard (1904), 880 yard (1916) 
One mile open (1904), 5 mile (1910) 
records were all made here.
In the last two years I have noted 
that many Canadians and men from 
the northern cities appear in our en
rollment. Combined with the other 
men at Tech who play hockey, they 
should be able to get a group of 
skaters to establish our old prestige 
in the game.Mr. Bright is to be one of the 
Coaches of the team and with Maj. 
Gordon, who is also an expert play
er there will be developed a team 
worthy of the Tech plaid. Major 
Gordon, who is stationed at Tech, in 
the R. O. T. C., has had much ex
perience in the game, and has, in 
his time, coached the team repre
senting the United States Military 
Academy at West Point.
All things seem to indicate that 
Tech may look forward to a real 
team.
Saturdays victory for the Navy 
evens them up with the West Poin
ter's In games won and lost, each 
being credited with eleven victories. 
"Come eleven has been the watch
word at the Academy this fall, and 
next year they will be crying for 
a pair of sixes.
MIMEOGRAPHING
PROMPT, ACCURATE SERVICE 
Mathematics and The Sciences our 
Specialty. Let us bid on your work.
IDDINGS, COACH BASKET 
II BALL, STEFFENS TEAMMATE
Besides Coaching Track, Iddings
has Produced some Champion 
Basketball Teams.
Carnegie Tech is exceedingly for
tunate, this year in having for n 
Basketball coach, a man who has 
for the past 17 years, been engaged 
in the coaching of champion teams. 
He is a basket-ball player of great 
ability, and his knowledge of the 
game will be invaluable to the Tech 
squad.
The man who will be responsible 
for the performance of the Plaid 
baskct-shooters this year is Harold 
J. Iddings.
Iddings was a team mate of Wal
ter Steffens, on the famous Chicago 
Football team. He played basket
ball at Chicago in the year 1907. 
After this time his coaching was 
confined to football, but in 1910, he 
coached the State University of Ken
tucky sphere tossers. From there 
he went to Simpson College, in Iowa 
where he was athletic director. In 
that institution, he produced the 
state champion team in 1912.
Yankton college then attracted Id
dings and he coached the teams 
there, after which he took up work 
in Otterbein University, of Wester
ville, Ohio, where he produced the 
most successful football team in the 
history of that Institution. The year 
19:9 was spent coaching at his old 
alma mater, Chicago.
Coach Iddings comes to Tech -with 
a most successful record and repu
tation, and it is quite safe to say 
that Carnegie Tech may look for
ward to the brightest basketball year 
in the history of the institution.
THE TECHS
Stevens Tech at Hoboken, N. J., put out a football team this year which 
went thru the season without a defeat. They did not play a very difficult 
schedule but won from all their opponents by large enough scores to in
dicate they must have had an eleven of much strength. We would like 
to see more technical schools on our football schedule, but since Case 
found us too rough last year we have not met any of the scientists. A 
football game with Stevens and a cross country meet with Massachusette 
Tech would be very attractive events for next year.
REMliMBEREVERY FOOTBALL MAN BACK NEXT YEAR
T
HE more rich and delicious a certain food in, the 
more care people take to avoid eating too much o! it 
for instance, plum pudding or BWectH.
Similarly, many smokers avoid straight Turkish ciga
rettes because they are too rich. They contain too much 
Turkish.
I?ut in turning to part-Turkish or Turkish Blend ciga
rette, men often find a disappointing lack of taste, due to 
too Itttie Turkish.
So naturally, men look for a cigarette containing just 
enough Turkish. And sooner or later, they "discover Fatima.
They find that while Fatima contains less Turkish than 
do straight Turkish cigarettes, it contains more than any 
other Turkish Jilendin other words just enough Turk
ish to give them that delicious Turkish taste without any 
over-richness.
Try smoking just enough Turkish.
iraal E etlcA hougnno Co.
FATIMA
CIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1920.
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE
rENUSPENCILS
"COR the student or prof., the superb VENUS outrivals all for perfect pencil work. ^ 17 black degrees and 3 copying.
American Lead Pencil Co.
Z20FifthAvc.New York s&A
it The 
arreit telUm 
quality fendi 
lit the world
of such distressing circumstances.
If funds were available, carefully 
worked out plans for self-supporting 
dormitories and dinning-rooms could 
be put into operation; cooperative 
farms, wood-cutting camps, etc., 
could be established to be run by 
the university students, both men 
and women, if there were money on 
hand for the initial expensefi Sucecssful trial of such schemes, under 
the direction.of the Friends Society, 
has proved their tremedous value in 
giving students on apportunity for 
work with fair return and in preventing pauperization. Lack of funds, 
however, now makes their continu
ance impossible.
I! nWhat is to be Done
It is left entirely with the stu
dents and professors of each institu
tion to determine how best to meet 
this responsibility. It is suggested 
that there be a presentation of the 
appeal through the college press, 
and a collection of funds at some 
college assembly or convocation, fol
lowed up by personal solicitation.
All funds should be remitted to A. 
J. Hemphill, Treas. American Relief 
Administration European Student 
Relief Fund Guarantee Trust Com
pany, New York City.
The Students of Europe are living 
under these conditions NOW, and 
are facing more intolerable condi
tions with the approach of winter. 
Their lives and the future education 
of Europe depend upon IMMEDIATE 
relief.
23 PLEBE STATISTICS.
(Continued from page 1.) 
twenty-one pears of age at the time 
they entered Tech.
And now comes the gloomy part. 
Thirty-five per cent of the entire num
ber entering were not present at the 
end of the year. Of those who left, 
forty per cent were dropped on ac
count of jpoor scholarship. It behocves this years plebes to take 
warning and act accordingly.
This comprehensive data was com
piled from those records taken at the 
beginning of the year bp the Psycho
logy Division. It will be interesting 
to compaie it with the record of our 
new Plebes. T. C. II.
KUPPENHE1MER Tlnfhoc CLOTHCRAFT tlUlllCa
Jageman & Spicket
The Mens Store ol East End
6121 Penn Ave., - East End
Patronize TARTAN Advertisers
BATTERY
Exi de
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Baum and Melhvood 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS&TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
LOST4 overcoats at the Fo6tball Smoker Nov. 20. Owners have 
left their names and descriptions of 
coats in rny office. Dean Tarbell.
LOSTSeveral brass cuspidors be
longing to the faculty. Club , were 
taken from the Faculty Club Room 
on the Night of the Football Smo
ker, Nov, 20. Information concern
ing them is requested by H. G. Pot
ter, Secretary, Faculty Club, c/o Ma
chine Shop, Industries,
LOST -Silver key ring with 6 keys 
between Science Bldg., and Cafeter
ia. Kinder please return to Dean 
Tarbells office.
Lost a bunch of keys, last Friday, 
Nov, the 19th, around the School of 
Industries, or in the Beanery. Kind
er, will please leave the lame in 
Dean Morris office, or in Dean Tarbell, or in room 108 and receive a 
reward.
Stolen: A Dodge Touring Car Li
cense 142364, Engine 432037, Mfg. 
389561, on Monday, November 22, 
Division of Industries, between 8:30 
and 9:30 p. m. Information leading 
to its whereabouts willbe greatly 
appreciated by its owner? Leo A. 
Schaffer, 155 lavel St., Pittsburgh, 
night student Division of Industries.
REWARD
PITTSBURGH CLAN
DINNER DEC. 2
Remember the next dinner of the 
Pittsburgh Clan, Thursday, Decem
ber 2, at 6:30 Fulton Cafeteria.
A good program is being arranged 
and a review of the football season 
will be made.
Remember the date, time and 
place. Do some personal work. Get 
other Tech men and women there.
WROUGHT IRON MANF
On Thursday, December 2, those 
interested in the manufacture and 
uses of wrought iron will have an 
opportunity to listen to an address 
011 that subject at a joint meeting 
of the Carnegie Mechanical Engin
eers Society, Mining and Metallurgi
cal Society, and the Chemists Club. 
The speaker will be E. M. Byers of 
the E. M. Byers Co., Manufacturers 
of Wrought Iron.
RELIEF FUND FOR
EUROPEAN STUDENTS 
(Continued from page 1.)
15% of the students were without 
coats.
15% of the students had but one 
pair of sicks or none at all.
The increase In prices of all com
modities everywhere is staggaring.
Sugar which formerly cost 0.86 
Kr. now costs 5:45 ICr.
Clothes which formerly cost 80.00 
Kr. now costs 2500-5000 Kr.
Figues for textbooks, stationery, 
etc,, have increased in like manner.
Medical statistics show an alarm
ing Increase In student sickness, 
required medical treatment in 1919-
In Hungary 19% of the students 
1920 as against 6.9% in 1913-1914. 
in Vienna last year out of 1600 stu
dents 144 wore tuberculosis. In Bres
lau 655 students received treatment 
and of these 14% wore tuberculosis.
Living Costs
In Vienna, the bare minimum on 
which a woman student can live 
(without any allowance whatever 
for clothing) is 500 Kr. a month: the 
utmost she can earn is 300 Kr. a 
month and a few can earn that. In 
Budapest the bare minimum on which 
a student can live (allowing for on
ly two meals a day) was 1032 Kr. in 
June 1919, and it is now considerab
ly higher. The usual monthly in
come a student can earn is 620 Kr., 
and 45% of the wage earning stu
dents have to help support parents 
or relatives. 42% of the students 
are wage-earners; 58% are not, and 
this is principally because they can
not find employment. Incidentally 
manual labor is impossible for them 
because long-continued undernour
ishment has s apped their strength.
Many people have asked why stu
dents do not work. The great ma
jority of them do work while they 
study. But one must realize that 
there is an enormous amount of un
employment in Europe at present 
and it is impossible for the students 
to support themselves completely. It 
would be equally difficult for them 
to get work if they ceased studying 
enntirely, both because of the gener
al unemployment and because of the 
hostile, well-organized labor unions.
Brief Summary of the Situation
There are no words which can 
possibly describe the distressing con
ditions under which men and women 
are studying in Europe today. The 
essentials of living are lacking. Stu
dents are trying to liyp on two meals 
a day, one of which .consists of black 
bread and very thin soup. They are 
coming home at night to study in a 
room without heat, and with n<> 
lighting facilities except a candle. 
They are trying to keep warm thru 
the long winter months with their 
clothing in rags. Many of the men 
are wearing their old army uni
forms, now badlbv worn after sever
al years of service. Others wear thin 
overcoats, buttoned up tight to the 
neck to conceal the absence of shirt
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the large 
number of her cubs.
How many cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time? she asked the LIONESS.
Only ONE, replied the Lionessbut is a 
LION.
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 10BUT THEY'RE MURADS!
MURADS would be lower priced if we left out 
all or part of the 1 00% Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and beit varieties grownor if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MUR ADStheyd only be 
Foxes!
Judge for yourself!
Special attentiqn is coifed
in Murad20$ in Tin Boxes trifuilgu ivj anjQgantiamtlieVMi
BRIEF CASES HAND BAGS
BOSTON BAGS TRUNKS
SUIT CASES LAUNDRY BAGS
10 per cent discount to students.
943 LIBERTY AVENUE .:. .:. PITTSBURGH, PA.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
Laboratory Aprons
TECII STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS 
Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
12 FORBES STREET, COR. HOQUET
M-H'K-k -K -K-H-M -K-M-H-H-K-K
W*### **<#* ?-M-M-K-X--M-M-H-H-M-H-*-
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
or underwear. The condition of the 
women students is even worse. Many 
are clad in little more than rag?, 
which have become filthy and ofltime verminous, for soap and a bath 
are luxuries which students cannot 
afford, in Vienna very few of the 
students have had a daily breakfast 
since 1917, Many have had only a 
crust of bread, and others took their 
first meal at noon. The majority* of 
them have not tasted butter or choc
olate for four years. Two authentic 
cases are known of two students who 
had gone to bed from hunger and 
exhaustion, only to be found dead 
some days later. One cannot forget 
the pitiable plight of a girl student 
with open sores on her hands, who 
when asked if she had received med
ical treatment, admitted that she 
would have to choose between that 
and a meal, and that gnawing hun
ger had compelled her to choose a 
meal.
Stories of professors who are obiiged to sell their most cherished pos
sessions in order to buy food and 
keep a roof over their heads are dai
ly occurences. One of Europe's most 
famous savants at the University of 
Viena, recently remarked that it 
would be quite impossible for him 
to live at all and work, were it not 
for the supplies which he received 
from his English and American 
friends. Another world-famous pro
fessor. now eighty-one years of age, 
has been subsiding for the past three 
months on tea and soup alone. In a 
great many instances the professors 
have deprived themselves of what 
would seem to us the necessities of 
life, in order that they might assist 
students who were in greater need.
Space does not admit of further 
presentation of facts, but there are 
innumerably other examples that 
could be cited. Relief must be given 
this winter and this necessitates im
mediate effort to raise the desired 
funds. It seems fitting and proper 
that American students should be 
called upon to respond to this appeal for help. Tliep cannot fail to 
appreciate the difficulties involved 
in studying under such conditions, 
and to realize that only a very real 
love of learning can keep these stu
dents at the universities in the face
SK1B0 INN j
Remodeled and Enlarged |
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME,
* FOOD
* Served at bejft prices j
% CIGARS CANDY *
* T
Young, one of the screen's tcchnica 
geniuse:; directed.
GRAND
Should an actress give up her car
eer in order to make a home for a 
man and rear children? This is one 
o fthc problems brought up in Kath
erine MacDonald's greatest photodrama, Curtain/' which will bf pre
sented at Pittsburgh's Million Dollar 
Grand all next week, starting Mon
day morning. December (>. 'J lie pic
ture is founded, upon Rita Wieman's 
widely read magazine story of the 
same name, and it provides the beauMiss MacDonald, who calls this her 
city home, with the most appealing 
and intensely interesting role in 
which she has ever played. James
DAVIS
Laughter promises to be the im
pressive factor in next week's pro
gram of Keith vaudeville at the Da
vis Theatre. Among the nine acts 
which will be offered at daily mati
nees and evening performances, be
ginning Monday afternoon, Decem
ber 6, there will not be a serious 
moment. The headline feature is t<> 
be Santos and Hayes Revue, herald
ed as the most proton tic ensemble 
attraction and the greatest laugh 
rovoking act in the annals of polite 
varieties.
FOUNDIn Cafeteria Wednesday 
noon, Nov. 17, class ring with en
graved initials inside. Call Dean 
Tarbells Office,
LOSTFountain Pen, Nov 18, 
Please return to Dean Tarboll's offiico,
FOUND-Gold cuff link on cam
pus, Apply Office of Dean of Men.
FOUND'2 overcoats. 1 scarf and 
1 hat at the Football Smoker, Nov. 
No. These articles have been turned 
in to my office and await identifica
tion. Dean Tarbell,
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boots, Slippers, Hosiery for Men,
Wome nand Children
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGO 
Michigan Blvd.lldif. Corn or Washington St.
ST. LOUIS Arcade Build I mi
NEW HAVEN 
Hotel Taft 
BOSTON 
Little Building 
CLEVELAND Athletic Club Bldg.
WASHINGTON Woodward Bldg. 
opp. Slioroham Hotel SAN FRANCISCO Whitney Building 13.'l Geary Street
