The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 9, November 9, 1982.
om
photo by Rhoda Funk
[lucklebee (Jerry Smith - Niles), El Gallo (Lothair Eaton), and Bellomy (Abe Feldman) plan the rape of Bellomys daughter in this scene 
The Fantasticks. See story on page 17.
Computing forum held
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
Members of the administration met with 
about 80 students to discuss personal com
puting at the forum held November 2. 
Richard Van Horn, provost, Doug Van 
Houweling, vice-provost, Alan Newell, pro
fessor of computer science, and Brad Walter, 
acting dean of student affairs, fielded ques
tions from the audience about the contract 
recendy signed between CMU and IBM, and 
about the future of computing at CMU.
Questions ranged from the exact type of 
equipment to be purchased to the impact 
that computing will have on the relation
ship between the college of fine arts and the 
rest of the university.
Van Horn said that the contract signed 
primarily provides for software develop
ment over the next three years. According 
to Van Houweling, a couple hundred tran
sition machines will be bought per year 
over the next two years. These IBM compu
ters, which are much less powerful than 
continued on page 7
rofessor promotediTheNwT spahr po shf CC rhnpTNahsN ghpr
y NANCY RITCHEY
artan Staffwritcr
The electrical engineering department 
as chosen as its new head Dr. Steve W. 
)irector. The electrical engineering search 
ommittee made their selection in late Sepmber and Director accepted their offer in 
)ctober.
New York bom, Director received his 
achelors degree at the State University of 
view York, Stony Brook. His masters degree 
md PhD were completed at Berkeley. Before 
le joined the faculty at CMU he taught for 
line years at the University of Florida. He 
ook a one year sabbatical to work on 
^search for IBM.
According to Director, the reason he 
ccepted the post was, "I wanted to be a part 
>f an active, world renowned department. 
Of the two courses that Director presently 
eaches, one graduate and one undergraduate, one has been taken over by Dr. Stanley 
Charap, the associate head. Director will not 
teach at all next semester. He said, Ive got 
to get myself organized.
Director said the electrical engineering 
department has the greatest potential for 
advancement. He said he felt it was a chal
lenge to be able to choose the direction that 
would make the department move forward.
Director recognizes the need to upgrade 
the facilities in the department and to 
change the obsolescence erf the building. He 
said he felt gratified to know the administra
tion recognizes these needs also. Were liv
ing out of a 19th century coal mine, he said.
His goals for the department are to for
malize and begin arrangements for two or 
three research centers within the department 
in such areas as magnetics, computer-aided
design and optics. I would like to see these 
become outstanding centers of activity, how
ever not to the exclusion of the other 
research activities, he said.
Director plans to maintain active contact 
with and support for the students in his 
department. He plans to remain active with 
the Student Advisory Committee and the 
IEEE. He said he also wants to help pro
mote further progression and success erf the 
electrical engineering honor society, Eta 
Kappa Nu. A new undergraduate lounge for 
the students and faculty is also on his agenda
as well as individual appointments with 
students, as they are needed. Students are 
our most important resource and also our 
most important product, he said.
I intend to continue an active research 
program at a somewhat reduced level, he 
said erf his research plans. Right now, how
ever, Directors goals are directed more 
toward the department. I have plans to 
make sure the undergraduate laboratories 
are second to none, he said. I hope the 
students can benefit from our striving for 
quality.
Senate studies computing
fy MONICA J. CELLIO
artan News Editor
The Student Dorm Council and Student 
^nate have created a joint committee to 
nvestigate the computing issue.
The purpose of the committee is, accordnS to Senate Chair Alexandra Kavoulakis 
ind SDC President Mark Marsella, gather 
nfonnation. The committee has spoken to 
tlrninistrators and compiled information
on CMUs computer plans (see page 8), and 
they plan to conduct a survey of student 
opinion in the near future.
The committee is chaired by Senate Vice 
Chair Janelle Molloy. Half of its six 
members are SDC representatives, who were 
chosen by Marsella, and half are senators, 
who were chosen by Kavoulakis.
Molloy said that the committee hopes to 
receive input from students.
Editorial
0st Benefit U..................................page 2
^ews
( MU forum held...................page 7
inters moved...............................page 11
Features
No-Nukes.......................................page 13
Beat the system...............................page 13
Entertainment
Pilobolus .......................................page 17
Furs reviewed .................................page 19
Sports
Harriers take PAC........................page 23
Hockey action ..............................page 23Creative pumpkin carving is almost an art at this time of year.
photo by Edward Zak

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Cost/Benefit vision projected by Cyert 'n' Friends
Over the past several weeks, the issue of com
puting at Camegie-Mellon University has pro
voked extreme reactions from both students and 
the administration. Now that the dust has settled, 
it is time to step back and ask some hard ques
tions of the people in charge of new product 
development at CMU.
One step in that direction was taken last 
Tuesday, when a multi-faceted panel of experts 
hosted a question and answer session on the 
plans for the new computer system. A questioner 
there expressed dismay at what he felt were con
tradictions in the statements of various officials. 
One panel member, Dr. Van Houweling, 
acknowledged that contradictions had been 
made. But, he said, that is only natural when 
many people express their own hopes and objec
tives for the computer network.
Clearly, the administration is excited about its 
new plans. So are the scientists. Both groups for 
widely different reasons, see a brand new flower 
of technology blossoming right before their eyes. 
Oooh . . . feel the electricity.
We at the Tartan are also excited, but with 
some reservations. And it is not the contradic
tions that concern us, it is the consistency of 
administration actions that are worrisome.
In the October 26th isue of the Tartan, Presi
dent Cyert expressed his hopes in connection 
with the new computer system. I hope every 
student has one [a computer], and by the year 
2000 everyone will want and need one. It is one 
way to make life long learning a reality.
Yes, President Cyert, computers are a tool for 
increasing students learning capabilities, that 
much is indisputable. But, what will future 
CMU grads want to learn? Will they even know, 
for example, that Tempest, as welj as being the 
name of a popular video game, is also a play by 
some guy called William Shakespeare? Surely, 
you are not suggesting that the only things worth 
knowing will be technologically oriented and 
accessible only by computer, but the decisions erf 
your administration provoke our asking that 
question.
Consider the criterion for departmental alloca
tions voiced by Cyerts right-hand rheostat, Dr. 
Van Horn at Thursdays Future of Computing 
seminar. Departments choose a direction that 
will ensure at least national recognition, Van 
Horn said, then, if we agree with their choice, 
they receive funding. In these days of economic 
saew-tightening, such cost/benefit analysis may 
be as necessary for a university as for a corpora
tion. Maybe more so for a university that consid
ers itself a corporation. However, must the
benefits be so construed that national recognition 
is the goal, and not education?
Several departments have problems that result 
from, at least in part, the administrations obses
sion for national recognition. Take, for example, 
the English Department, where deep divisions 
have resulted from the concentration in rhetori
cal studies to the detriment of literary studies. 
The existence of a fine rhetoric department need 
not preclude the existence of a fine literature 
department, although it does here.
Literary studies at CMU have become so per
verted that in the last few years there have been no 
courses taught on Hemmingway. He is not the 
only or most notable exception, but, when one 
considers the debt rhetors owe to Hemmingways 
prose style, he becomes significant merely by his 
absence. In fact, an in-depth study of Hemming
way just could shed some light on current prob
lems in communication; problems that we hope 
our computers will help us solve. Dear reader, are 
you confused? Cant find the connections? Blame 
cost/benefit analysis.
The English Department is not the only victim 
to fall to love of the limelight. The Design 
Department is facing the abyss of deconstruction 
as administration officials balance the benefits 
versus the costs of keeping the department. The
threat to Design is very curious when one realizes 
that at its very core, Design is concerned with 
technology. Unfortunately for the designers, they J 
think about how humans interact with technology, not necessarily with developing the new, 
innovative, on the leading edge, look-at-usworld-were-better-than-you-technology that 
seems uppermost on Cyerts wish fulfillment list.
Cyert must have been possessed by prophetic 
visions on October 26th. He expects that the 
planned computer system will be looked back 
upon in 25 or 30 years as the most significant 
move in the twentieth century as far as higher 
education is concerned. i
Perhaps the significant move pondered by 
historians will be his decision to choose areas of 
research based on the amounts of money and 
publicity that he hopes the research will 
generate.
The students, faculty, and administration oL 
CMU will be most definitely affected by the'' 
planned computer system. The manner and level 
of affectation is just beginning to peek through, 
but its true character has not yet been exposed. As 
future weeks peel back more layers, as commit
tees are formed and decisions made, let us hope 
that all qualities of education, knowledge, and 
decency will be given their just due.
SG Prez assesses repercussions of tuition rally
By Nate Solano
Considering the multiple purposes given 
by various persons concerning why indeed 
the tuition rally was held, I feel the need to 
address this question. The following are 
some various suggestions.
1.) To have fun
2.) To embarrass the 
Administration
3.) To get Tuition lowered
4.) To make a student presence known
5.) To get publicity
6.) To protest the arrogance of the 
Administration
7.) To protest the lack of effective stu
dent input and information granted by the 
administation
8.) To vent aggression
9.) To whine and complain
I suppose that most of these could have 
been seen as pertinent to the protest, but 
what I found most important about the rally 
was the fact that it proved that students can 
and will organize in the face of outrage. 
Student apathy is generally accepted among 
college students (not just those at CMU, but 
nationwide), and administrations undoubtably depend on it to insure any actions 
wrhich overstep their ethical bounds. It 
seems the past generation has seen a move 
away from idealism to a self centered or 
more pragmatic philosophy. This is not 
necessarily bad, however it appears to have 
taken organizational confidence away from 
society. Many persons refuse to support a 
cause for fear that it will somehow strip 
them of individualism and thus make them 
the same as everyone else involved in the 
cause. Fortunately I believe our rally proved, 
not only to the administration but to our
selves, that students can unite when issues 
demand it. Of course this tool must be used 
sparingly as not to wear c>ut its effectiveness; 
nonetheless we have proved that the tool 
does in fact exist (Dig it!) Whether one 
agrees with the content or reasoning of our 
protest, one must be heartened at the fact 
that a great number of students at CMU are 
not blindly loyal to perceived authority.
Inciciendy (hardly!), dont forget the tui
tion forum at 4:30 on Thursday, November
11 th. The basic idea is to make the adminstration justify the 19% tuition increase. I 
will be holding a meeting at 6:00 tonight in 
order to formulate a coherent group of ques
tions concerning the increase. ANYONE
may attend. (That especially means the guy 
with the axe who wanted to bum down 
Warner Hall and still may be supported in 
that action. Just kidding, Dr. Cyert) We will 
meet in the Senate Office, Room 59 Skibo.
Some preliminary results of the tuition 
rally: Besides granting Thursdays forum on 
tuition, the Administration has also offered 
to grant students three more seats on the 
tuition board. It may not yet be money in
our pockets, but it might be considered a 
start.
Well, I guess the columns have been 
pretty dry recently and the time has come to 
remedy this state of affairs. Thus I begin the 
first chapter of my memoirs: Moby Nate 
(ORN)
CHAPTER ONE 
Call me Ishmael . . er . . Nate. A child
adrift in Monroeville when McDonalds was 
the only fast food franchise and Howard 
Johnsons was a good place to go for ice 
cream. But the simple, pleasant times would 
not last, (notice obvious forshadowing)
(Next week, the birth of the Monroeville 
Mall)
Nate Solano is a junior in AMS and is j 
president of the student government.
How do nuclear war and morality mix?
By Stuart Shapiro
If debate over nuclear diplomacy was 
murky before, its pitch black now. The 
National Conference of Catholic Bishops 
(NCCB) has decided to transform the debate 
on nuclear strategy into one on 
nuclear morality. And the word 
from the bishops is that the two 
dont mix.
Thats the message in a draft of a pro
posed pastoral letter to Americas 51 million 
Roman Catholics. If its supposed to shed 
some light on the confusing complexities of 
strategic issues, the NCCB is in for a big 
surprise. They raise some important ques
tions, but the end result, unfortunately, is 
many more questions and just as few 
answers.
No sane individual, I think, could argue 
that nuclear war is moral. If the deliberate 
destruction of most of the life on this planet 
is not immoral, its difficult to imagine what 
is. Accepting this premise, its difficult to 
argue that threatening to unleash nuclear 
devastation is any less immoral. Now if only 
it was that simple, wed be in great shape.
But it isnt. There is an inherent schizoph
renia in the world of nuclear strategy. 
Nuclear weapons produce a kind of twilight 
zone in which conventional logic is twisted 
and distorted until it becomes unrecogniza
ble. From such an aberration come theories 
to match: mutually assured destruction 
(MAD) and the associated balance of terror, 
insuring survival entails assuring destruc
tion. Deterrence requires a willingness to 
plunge into the abyss.
All of this tends to blur the clean lines of 
the bishop argument. If threatening
More columns on pages 4 and 5
nuclear destruction is indeed immoral and 
we choose to abide by our morals, then we 
have already lost the game. We will have 
surrendered our means of retaliation and 
therefore our means of deterring the very 
thing we could no longer retaliate against.
But if the unthinkable does in fact occur, 
then our retaliatory capacity will have 
already failed to perform its function. 
Would there be any meaningful point to the 
decimation of another large fraction of 
humanity?
In that sense, is nuclear war really any 
more immoral than conventional warfare? 
Soldiers die. Civilians die. The inncxent 
suffer. Philosophically, is the death of mil
lions any more evil than the death of one? 
Some wars may be necessary; they will never 
be moral.
The bishops ponder the problems of 
nuclear morality somewhat removed from 
the bizarre world of nuclear strategy  a 
world with a perverse logical consistency all 
its own. Must we make a choice between 
defending our ethics and defending our
selves? It seems that we are literally damned 
if we do and damned if we dont.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letterv to-the-Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter.
Nuclear weapons create ethical, theologi
cal, and strategic complexities that defy 
quick or easy resolution. They must be care 
fully considered and discussed at the greatest 
length. Of course, if we thought about it that 
carefully, wed all get rid of them before one 
of the bloody things goes off.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
history and is a columnist for The Tartan.Thelarh>ii.
Editor-in-Chief.......................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor................................Vince Guinto
Business Manager.............................Louise Crocoll
News Editor..........................................Monica Celli0
Features Editor....................................... Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor..........................Susan
Sports Editor.....................................Jeff Berjpnan
Photography Editor...........................John Stilwel
Contributing Editor...........................Gregg Bossi*
Art Director.............................................Diane ThocM
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager............................................BonnieTopf
Typesetting Manager......................Patu
Associate News Editor................Joanne Savine
Assoc Features Editor................Pauline Kramer
Associate Photo Editor.....................CJene Yonis
Asst Ent Editor..................................................John Cantine
AssL Sports Editor..................................Ric
Asst Business Mgr....................Kathleen
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Margaret
Wasch
Eissler,
Andrew Ghali, Chris Johnston, Phil Masn 
Monica Safrin, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from publica^ ^ 
copy it deems until for publication. Editorial . 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: SkW 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113 VIji 
address: Box 17, Sthenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

November 9, 1982The TartanPage 3
jtters
iTpN n-hrMho lwwr lwT lThogahs
Editor
A crisis has arisen on our campus and 
the staff of the Tartan has failed to make 
note of it. It concerns fraternities and particlarly their freshman pledges. It seemed that
ll freshman pledges are being forced to stay 
n meal contracts with Marriott service on 
lpus. Many pledges would much rather 
ne at their respective fraternity than eat the 
ood available in the various contract food 
ocations. Enough (probably too much) has 
said in the past about the quality of the 
ood served by the people from Marriott I am 
ore concerned with the social importance 
eating with and, thus getting to know, the 
rothers.
The smallest meal plan available to freshpledges is one of five weekday meals 
lunches). This is highly impractical due to 
iy pledges class schedules. The next 
mallest plan is one of ten meals a week, 
lis is quite a burden for anyone eating ten 
eals at his house each week. Basically, the 
ledges are being forced to pay for someing that they do not want and do not need, 
e people at Marriott have not come up 
'th any explanation for their actions. Of 
ourse, they do not have to answer to the 
wly, free-thinking freshman, but it would 
nice to know why pledges are being 
reed to stay cm contract 
d thought that I could survive by using my 
ntract money to stock my refergemtor, but 
en it hit me. A half pint carton of milk 
om Marriott cost $.40. That works out to 
6.40 a gallon. It does not take a brilliant 
countant to realize that this is not at all 
radical.
Various suggestions have been brought 
p: designing a new meal plan to help these
hundreds of freshmen, forcing them to keep 
a fifty-dollar balance in Validine (account), 
or even allowing them to drop Marriots 
service completely. The last suggestion 
seems just a bit too radical, but seems to be 
the most popular among the pledges. I do 
not want to imply that no one is trying to 
resolve this problem, but the two sides are 
not talking freely. It tends to remind one of 
the ongoing football strike. I understand 
that the people from Marriott consider this 
case closed. This will not be the case, if the 
pledges have their way.
I am listed in the C-Book if you have any 
questions, suggestions or comments. I will 
be glad to talk with any pledges, brothers, 
independents and concerned citizens, but I 
am particularly interested in hearing the 
response from Marriott, i can promise the 
people from Marriott that I will not throw a 
tantrum in front of them and will not have 
hundreds of angry pledges waiting to greet 
them. I only want to have a few questions 
answered.
By the way, I am currently a pledge at 
ZBT.
Jeff Kenausis
Inedible, expensive and for your own good
Editor
On the front page of the October 26 edi
tion of The Tartan there was an article 
about how the food services were improved. 
Ken Stover had some interesting things to 
say, but he did sidestep some important 
issues.
I am a steward in ZBT fraternity and feel it 
is my duty to point out some of these omis
sions. First of all, he failed to mention that
tallone review lacking
tor
To borrow a phrase from Tuesdays elecon coverage, I must take strong excepon to Eric Pattersons review of the movie 
irst Blood, starring Sly Stallone. 
Pattersons assertion that it will leave 
y audience in stitches throughout charcterizes his immense ignorance of the enor
mous and complex issues behind this film, 
amely the post-Vietnam attitude, or lade of 
>ne, toward veterans of the war in this counry. The audience that I was part of was far 
*om laughing throughout 
Rather, we were taking in and attempting
0 comprehend the intense mental struggle 
lat many Vietnam vets, symbolized here by 
tallones character, Rambo, underwent due
o their experiences in Vietnam and upon 
burning to a less than gracious United 
tates of Confusion.
I will give a few choice examples of Patterons review and counter-anrue. Ram bos , ftjreen Beret commander in Vietnam 
ppears on the scene while local police are 
Sganizing a hunt (literally) for Stallone, 
vho camped up in the wilderness of a 
fountain in Washington state.
Patterson asserts that this Green Beret 
^mmander simply "always reminds the 
heriff in a preach way of what a prime 
UP Rambo once was. This commander 
id warn the sheriff of the extent of Stalone s guerrilla-type warfare expertise, but 
le Was also trying to explain to this ignornt> back-of-the-woods sheriff the VietnamBused reasons and implications of their 
lunt fr him, and therefore Rambos kill 
)r be killed hunt on them.
Even so, Rambo did not kill anyone  he 
nm'lv set each hunter up in a near-fatal trap 
nd let them live after warning them to stop 
)Ursuing him, even though they tried to kill 
'tollone at every chance. I doubt that anyone 
with the hunters, as Patterson suggest 
Vlew this information which was omit
ted from the review.
Finally, Pattersons evaluation of Stal
lones performance as one-dimensional is 
both cliche' and miserably blind. I, as well as 
several others that I talked to, consider this 
his best performance to date, including the 
Rocky series. Maybe Patterson just isnt used 
to seeing Stallone in a less than alloontinuad on page 6
food services food is close to inedible. As a 
result of this many freshmen would like to 
drop their contract. Those of us who 
remember the food service uproar of last year 
know that this is not allowed.
In the past freshmen who pledged frater
nities could save themselves from Kiltie by 
going on their frats food plan. This year, 
however, food service in their money 
hungry wisdom has changed this.
At best, a pledge can now drop to five 
meals a week. Most houses do not have 
breakfasts or Sunday meals so a five meal 
contract plan could be useful. Unfortu
nately, the meals must all be lunches.
One might not understand food services 
reasons for this, but they claim they do have 
a reason. Mr. Stover said he thought stu
dents would not want to pay extra money 
for a less rigid contract. Isnt that good of 
him to think of the students! If he really 
cared though, he would know that paying
for something you dont want no matter 
how cheap and $235 is not cheap, is not in 
anyones best interest, but his (and his 
salarys).
Food service in the past has made argu
ments such as freshmen on contract avoid 
cooking in dorms. They also admitted that 
the extra money is needed. A pledge would 
not be cooking, he would be eating at his 
house.
By eating at the frat pledges get better food 
and an opportunity to socialize with future 
brothers. Fraternities can also use extra 
money by having more pledges on our con
tracts; however, we do not charge them to 
make a profit, we give people what they pay 
for.
It all comes down to a single point, food 
service is trying, and succeeding, to extort 
money from freshmen pledges.
Steven Coopersmith 
AMS Soph.
Debugging The Tartars computing editorial
Editor.
Your editorial Camegie-Mellon: Press 
comes before students grabbed my atten
tion more than others, since you are discuss
ing media relations, the area which I oversee 
at CMU.
You assert The Tartan is not upset with 
this (IBM) contract, but we are upset with 
the apparent insensitivity of the president in 
releasing this information. You ask, 
Come on guys, why was the press told 
before the students? You boast, The Tar
tan will attempt to keep CMU informed The 
this on-going issue as best we can... Upon 
first glance, you, the Tartan editors appear 
to be neglected, overlooked and even 
ignored. Im not able to understand the 
guise you are assuming. Nor, do I accept 
blame myself or for any other administrator 
for you not being aware of the personal 
computer plans of this university. Let me 
explain.
To your first charge of the president 
releasing information to the press before 
you received it, thats simply not true. You 
were invited to attend the same press confer
ence which announced the details of the 
IBM affiliation and, for a period of years, 
not months. Tartan reporters were involved 
intimately in the discussions about personal 
computing on campus.
You, the present editors, failed when it 
came to researching the background of the 
personal computers arrangement, but I 
assure you, you should have known more 
facts when you arrived at the press confer
ence. And you would not have had to look 
far to find those facts.
For example, you might have at least read 
bade issues of the Tartan. The personal 
computer arrangement has been analyzed 
throughout Tartan pages for years. On Feb.
3, 1981, you published Reed Vickermans 
article Five year computer improvement 
plan announced. You only played the story 
on page 7, so perhaps, you had trouble find
ing it in your files.
Next, on Nov. 3, 1981, you quoted Dr. 
Cyert as saying, My own view is that we 
will be the first school to go to a requirement 
for a personal computer for every student. 
Does that sound like a president who is 
hiding information from the Tartan? This 
interview, in November of last year, gave 
numerous specific pieces of information 
which foretold future developments. Your 
blame of Dr. Cyert is unfounded. Hes been 
participating in Tartan interviews on this 
topic for more than one year, but you didnt 
do enough homework to find that out.
Let me continue. On Nov. 24, 1981, you 
announced on page 1 New committee
created: Task force investigates future of 
computing. In the article you interviewed 
Allen Newell, head of the Task Force. Last 
spring, your coverage continued. An adver
tisement announced an open forum on the 
future of computing on April 13, 1962; 
Monica Rawiczs coverage of the task forces 
future plans was printed on April 20; 
Joanne Savinell summarized Computing 
to expand next year in her front page arti
cle on April 27; and the Tartan printed on 
May 4 a letter advising CMU to spend com
puter funds elsewhere.
This fall, less than six weeks before the 
IBM announcement, you ran Plans for per
sonal computers expected soon. I would 
have suspected that your interview with 
Douglas Van Houweling on Sept. 7 would 
have advised your readers  and reporters, 
as well  that something was ahead. In fact 
your reporter, Monica Cellio, wrote erf Van 
Houweling that, He expects a decision to 
be made in late September or early October. 
As it turned out, the IBM agreement was 
signed on Wednesday, Oct 20, as the vice 
provost anticipated, and your paper carried 
that announcement on Sept. 7, plenty of 
time for the Tartan to prepare its facts for the 
big announcement.
I contend that there has been no insensicontinued on page C

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 9, 1982
Open letter to Cyert: why the insensitivity?
The following is a letter sent to President 
Cyert via computer. It is reprinted in The 
Tartan by permission of the author.
Dear Dr. Cyert:
I have been an undergraduate at 
Camegie-Mellon since the fall of 1978 and 
will graduate this December with a Bachelor 
of Science degree in Metallurgi
cal Engineering and Materials 
Science. During this time, I have 
noted that you have been less 
than aware as to the lifestyle which is hap
pening around you. The insensitivity got to 
me, particularly after the events of the past 
two weeks, and I felt that I must speak out.
There have been several incidents before 
in which you took actions which were con
tradictory to the role a college president 
should take. As a co-op student, I was here 
during the summer of 1981 when Professor 
Chen died. It is one thing for someone in 
your position to mention that you thought 
the death was suspicious. You went over the 
line, however, when you phoned in to 
KDKA radio your thoughts that there were 
Taiwanese spies on this campus!
A man in the position of president should 
know that statements like this create an 
atmosphere of distrust among the two differ
ent factions of Taiwanese students. Your job 
erf keeping the peace on campus should 
come before the job of getting CMU public
ity, which, as we all know, was quite 
effective.
Two other areas where you showed insen
sitivity to the situation of the students were 
in the areas of government aid and the 
announcement of the new alcohol policy. 
When you announced that you felt that 
Camegie-Mellon should give the new 
Washington policies of financial aid cut
backs a chance, I was appalled!
Already, CMU is digging deep into its
endowment to give financial aid to students 
and your job is, after all, to protect the best 
interests of the university. What was particu
larly stunning was at the same time, your 
staff was organizing a write-in campaign to 
Congress to keep federal aid to colleges from 
being slashed. No manager should so publically undercut the efforts of the people who 
work for him. It breeds distrust.
As for the alcohol policy, that was not 
well thought out. The problem is the arbi
trariness of the announcement. You know 
that to treat the fraternities differently than 
the dormitories is an unfair policy, but the 
original policy would have allowed them to 
serve alcohol at parties. It would have made 
certain adult social events (there are so few of 
them anyway), such as the Metals dub, 
Sworddance, etc., illegal and told depart
ments not to treat the students in them as 
equals.
The events of the last two weeks showed 
gross insensitivity. First, there was the 
announcement of the IBMCMU agree
ment to develop a personal computing net
work. The basic contract I do support and if 
you had simply announced it, first to CMU, 
then to the world, there would have been no 
problem. However, there is a fair amount of 
opposition to it because of the way yor 
handled the situation and the feeling that 
you dont care about student opinion. ^
I first read about the proposed agreement 
in Newsweek, which stated that students 
were going to have to pay $750 per year for & 
personal computer (that this was your per
sonal opinion was not mentioned). Before 
telling The Tartan about the press confer
ence about the announcement, you notified 
national news organizations. This move 
cost you for it was embarrassing for the 
CMU paper to receive a call from ABC News
about this conference and not know any. 
thing about it. This is why the editorial 
board took such a negative view.
WRCT didnt even leam about the press 
conference until after it was over, a fact 
which angered them since they were going 
to broadcast it. .You still could have saved 
yourself some respect by simply announc
ing the agreement, but instead, you inter
jected your personal belief that all students 
should have the computers. This angered 
Senate because they felt they should have 
been consulted.
Last (but not least), your "goofball stu
dents statement in front of other students 
was unforgivable. What student will believe 
anything you say if you have such a low 
opinion of those who disagree with you?
The last thing I wish to mention is your 
response to the tuition protest rally last Fricontinued on page 12^
Venerable Vodrey comtemplates adulthood
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
When I was very young, I had some defi
nite, set ideas about what being an adult 
would be like. I would be able to drink Coke 
any time of the day, even if it wasnt a special
* occasion; I would be able to 
1 curse as much as I wanted; I 
^ | would be able to call all my par1 ents friends by their first names. 
There were some other things I looked for
ward to as well. . .
I would be able to sit in the front pas
senger seat of the car. It never occured to me 
that, as an adult I would probably be the 
driver more often than the passenger. This 
used to be a great honor in our family; my 
brother William and I would race, at brea
kneck speeds, to get to the passenger seat
first Whoever made it (pushing, pinching 
and screaming were allowed, so it was a 
harrowing experience every time) would zip 
into the car, quickly lock all doors, and grin 
fiendishly at the panting loser through the 
glass.
I would never EVER have to empty the 
dishwasher. Warnings of, Some people 
dont even have dishwasher, did no good; 
all I knew was that we had one, and it always 
needed to be emptied. Sometimes I sus
pected my mother of loading it with clean 
dishes, just so it would be full again when I 
got home from school.
I would be able to read in bed as late as I 
wanted. We each had a set bedtime, but we 
also each had a flashlight in our bed side 
tables. After climbing into bed each night, I
would count to one hundred, take a deep 
breath, and steathily pull out the flashlight. 
This done, I read underneath the covers for , 
an hour or more, always fearing a quiet step | 
on the stairs and a call of, Catherine? Are j 
you asleep?
Now that Ive reached the ripe old age of f; 
20*/, Ive realized that all these things aria 
trivial and have litde bearing on the real 
meaning of being an adult. Being an adult is | 
turning the other cheek, laughing in the face  
of adversity, doing work on time, and 
all that stuff. I have to work on those things, j 
But I still race to the car with my brother! jj
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
in HbSS and is a columnist for the The 
Tartan.
NEED
ft
$$$CASH?
WE ARE BUYINGUSED RECORDSROCK * JAZZ * FOLKclassical soundtrackscorned/ 
- IN GOOD CONDITION -
a| THEUsed-Record Saleat:emu foccKstcre
IN BAKER HALL
NOV. 10  11  12 
WED  THUR B FRIBRING IN YOUR LPs FOR QUICK CASH
Philharmonic  Chorus
Werner Torkanowsky, Music Director and Conductor
Max Peterson, Director of Choruses
Featuring World Premiere: Concerto for Violin and Orchestra byLeonardo Baiada
Fritz Siegal, Violin Soloist
TheNwsp arofC n gNsi-eMN Cel Uv tyw Tw,,PeMbu 
g15r23CgVo n gNsi-eMN em T,w8s, 
9ryrfr n .eM[bhce meh 2Pe8PM wMk (h[-b,chw 
JSCfSygg(aC n gNsi-eMN Cel U) (iE, vG Lt3cw8PwMdBA
November 14,1982  8:00 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall, PittsburghNovember 21,1982  8:00 p.m. Carnegie Hall, New York City
The concerts are complimentary to all alumni, their families, and friends! For New York 
concert tickets, send a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Susan Hernandez, New York 
Concert Coordinator, Carnegie-Mellon University, Alumni Association, 5000 Forbes 
Avenue, Warner Hall 505, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. For information, call Camegie-Mellon
(412) 578-2060. After September 21, in New York, calf (212) 430-6407.

---------------------------------------------------

November 9, 1982The TartanPage 5
uclear freeze: route to international suicide?
By Ralph M. Sherman
On the recent ballots of about thirty per|cent of the American electorate, there was an 
opportunity to vote yea or nay on the 
nuclear freeze, via various referenda. In all 
of the nine states and the District 
of Columbia, only Arizona 
! rejected this freeze.
This attempt at townfmeeting foreign policy is well-meaning and 
sincerely inspired; it is also misguided and 
imistaken. As long as there are official classi
fied secrets, it is illogical to pretend that the 
jublic can be well-informed enough to craft 
;nsitive foreign policies, no matter how 
deeply motivated. It is wrong of the intellec
tuals, such as physicists, to attempt to scare 
the American people out of attempting civil 
lefense techniques that could save lives 
jnder nuclear attack. It is morally bankrupt 
a scare Americans out of defending themslves by promoting the policies of fear and
terror the freezers use.
Yes, there are enough weapons in the 
world to kill all its citizens several times 
over; there are enough non-nuclear as well 
as nuclear weapons to do so. Why are the 
freezers not decrying the horrible bio
chemical weapons, probably being used 
against the Afghani rebels and Cambodian 
tribesmen, by the Soviets and Vietnamese 
occupation armies alike, instead of the 
nuclear weapons? Why do the freezers advo
cate we join the no first strike pledge of the 
Soviets, when this no first use of the nuclear 
weapons is meaningless compared to the 
horrors faced by Polish workers, Afghani 
citizens, and the terrorized citizens of the 
Soviet Union itself?
The Soviets are more than willing to 
strike first with conventional weapons, just 
as deadly and horrifying, and enslave people 
to their system of government, as ugly a 
prospect to me as radioactive death.
Are the people urging this freeze Soviet 
dupes? I certainly dont believe so, at least in 
the majority of cases. Are, however, the 
Soviets the beneficiaries of this effort? 
Clearly so. It is the Soviets that have been 
building up their military, detente or not, 
while the U.S. has chosen not to engage in 
building such items as the B-l bomber and 
the MX missile system until recendy. The 
Soviets have armed heavily terrorist organi
zations across the world, such as the P.L.O. 
and the Baider-Meinhoff gang, promoting 
another version of Soviet goodwill to var
ious and sundry portions of the world.
The freezers will naturally argue that, 
surely, it is not proper to link the Soviets 
behavior to the nuclear arms issue, impor
tant enough on its own. Surely they are 
either naive or mistaken in this arguement. 
It is not logical to believe that the Soviet 
brand of morality that established Gulags, 
imprisoned Polish laborers, lent aid and
loe Freshman
comfort to international terrorism, and 
oppressed the Afghani, will rise to the occa
sion and mature to the level needed to trust 
them on nuclear arms freezes. It is irrational 
to throw away any incentive to barter or 
bargain, by ceding the Soviets thfcir arms 
build-up as a given. It would entail aban
doning Western Europe to a potential con
ventional onslaught of ^Soviet troops and 
armaments, were we to castrate our tactical 
nuclear weapons force by a foolish no first 
strike pledge.
Nuclear war is horrible and entirely unde
sirable. But there are things worse than 
death and there is no form of life more 
abominable than slavery. America needs a 
strong dose of anti-freeze administered 
immediately.
Ralph M. Sherman is a senior in Political 
Science and History and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.
by Mark Levine
ipology for Kappa Sig
Editor
I would like to apologize to the fall 
pledges of Kappa Sigma fraternity fora mis
take in my first letter of several weeks ago. 
The two people accused were not in fact 
pledges of the frat even though they were 
wearing pins. One is a brother, the other is a 
friend of the house. It is also true that I didnt 
recognize them by their pins. You see, I 
knew them by name before the alleged inci
dent. Not being familiar with fraternity cus
toms I did not realize that the spring pledges 
lhad already been initiated.
The facts remain, though, and it upsets 
me that the fraternity of the accused have 
decided to deny the incident as if it never 
happened. My first letter was indeed about
responsibility and not a cheap shot at Kappa 
Sigma. I wrote it with the hope that by 
exposing the weaknesses of the frats they 
would make the next step to amending and 
preventing the incidents like that which 
cause bad sentiment. Things have to be 
improved before the Greek track record mer
its praise.
Sound too idealistic? Maybe. But then 
again maybe someone will think twice 
before committing an act of injustice like 
harrassment, even if its only two boys in 
particular. As to Kap Sigs remark about my 
involvement with alcohol, all I can say is 
that they would know a lot more about 
intoxicating beverages than I would.
Andrew Hudson
Peter Fallazzi Haircutters
813 South Aiken Avenue
Special 25% off on all services with Anne and Rich. 
Open Sundays 2 for 1 special with Rich.
Ride the
APhiO
Shuttlebus
to the Airport.Thanksgiving Nov. 24
Morewood 11:45 3:15
Donner
12:003:30Limited Seating Tickets on sale Nov. 12, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 9; 1982
More lettersDr. Jain is outstanding in his field
Editor
I just heard about the petition that the 
students in Dr. Jains 36-209 Probability and 
Statistics course signed. Unless I was mis
taken, the petition referred to Dr. Jains 
teaching capacity and not the course itself. If 
this is the case, boy do I have news for 
everyone.
I think that Dr. Jain is a great teacher. 
Sure hes foreign. And sure hes a litde hard 
to understand. And sure he cant pronounce
some erf the English words. But big deal. He 
knows his stuff and he can teach it.
And the thing that is great about him is 
that he takes the time to make sure the stu
dents understand the material. He wants the 
kids to leam. Also, the kids in my class 
complained that the test was so much more 
difficult than the examples we get in class. 
There are two points to make here:
1) The examples that Dr. Jain gives are far 
superior than at least one of the other ProbaStahl has tongue-in-cheek
Editor:
Recendy, I have had the extreme pleasure 
of reading a couple of Andy Stahls columns 
and/or letters to the editor. Indeed we have a 
rare case of head-in-sand, or in simpler 
terms, head-up-rectal-cavity.
I really couldnt think of a better way to 
increase the job market for men than by 
sending women off to war to be shot at. That 
is a really good idea Andy. Well, since your 
mother is probably too old for the draft, its 
safe; but do you have any sisters?
I bet youd enjoy opening up an issue erf 
Newsweek and seeing whats left erf your 
sisters face after a nice big mortar attack. It is 
extremely difficult to tell whether your 
column is serious or not. Were you kidding? 
Or were you serious?
But if you were serious, I feel sorry for you. 
Now how do you think you can consider 
yourself a legitimate candidate for student 
govt, president? You said that the Food Ser
vice was awful. I think its pretty good. You 
said you were going to lower the tuition.
I dont believe you. You said many things 
which were so predictable as a candidate.
Whenever you go to open your mouth,
there will be extreme laughter from the 
audience. Please, Andy, you waste space in 
The Tartan, next time . . . write something 
that makes sense. Because so far there are 
two words that describe the endty or the 
realm of thought which you come from: 
GRAVY HOG. Joe Toth
Moore homework
[eMcPMEbk mhes iwFb 
tivity on the part of the president or anyone 
else; only reporters who have not done their 
homework. R. Keith Moore
Vice President
Mr. Moore, while you have done your 
homework in proving that The Tartan was 
informed, you fail to convince us that all of 
the students knew about the nature of this 
decision.
Our editorial was not a self-pitying state
ment that The Tartan was not informed, 
but a cry that students and parents did not 
receive correct information. It is our opinion 
that the administration should have made a 
personal correspondence on this issue  as 
they do with tuition increases. .__Editor
bility and Statistics professors. I only know 
kids in this one other course and they dont 
stop telling me how bad their professor is. In 
fact, when I show them examples that Dr. 
Jain gives our class, it helps them out a great 
deal. Also,
2) As far as the test goes from 11/1/82, the 
Statistics department screwed us, but good. 
If those tests are not scaled, then I will make 
a petition.
But my point is that I simply cannot 
comprehend how intelligent students ,at 
CMU can object to the outstanding teach
ing skills of Dr. Jain.
Bob Fishel 
Sophomore HfcSS
"CUBAT IP ^00 CAtf OOSrnpV IT. 
TWtS I Art eiu\c$ CLA&5. "
Senate candidate forum set
Editor (i.e. Student body):
There are only seven shopping days left 
until Student Senate elections. We are giv
ing you an unprecedented opportunity to 
check out the candidates next Tuesday at 6 
p.m. in the Ballroom (thats Nov. 16th)! 
This will be your chance (as an interested 
student body member) to meet the candi
dates and ask questions. In the past voter 
participation has been poor. Go with the 
flow, baby  change with the times  its 
the year erf the tuxedo  get out and vote! 
An inspirational cheer
Boom! Get a rat trap bigger than a cat 
trap.
Boom! Get another one bigger than 
the other one.
BOOM! BOOM! BOOM!
Sisk! Boom! Bah!
VOTE! VOTE! VOTE!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
See you at the forum.
Bring a date.
Sincerely yours, (and we mean this in 
earnest)
The General Campus and Information 
Committee of the Student Senate,
Gina, Sri, & Linda 
P.S. Elections will be held in the Skibo 
Grey Matter Nov. 17 & 18 from 9 a.m. to 9 
p.m.
Cry for Sly
[eMcPMEbk mhes iPFc 
American, heroic role.
Whatever the case, Stallones performance 
and the unsatisfying conclusion (accord
ing to Patterson) had the audience in tears, 
not stitches, and everyone left the theater ina 
thought-provoking, emotionally-moved 
state of mind. This is a movie well-worth 
seeing.
R. Matthew DeCarlucd
SPRING SEMESTER 1983 REGISTRATION
Registration for the Spring Semester 1983 has been scheduled for November 10 and 11,1982. Freshmen in CIT and 
MCS will receive separate registration instructions from Dean Kail and will not register at this time. All other students, 
graduate and undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they wish to be on the rolls for the Spring 
Semester. If you will not be returning for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly 
marked for Spring 1983) with your department If you are studying off campus, or for some other reason cannot 
register on November 10 or 11, ask your advisor to process a registration for you or call the Registrar's Office for 
special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet will be available after November 1, at the Public Relations Office, Baker Hall 160, and 
the Information Desk in Skibo. The Class Schedule contains a list of the courses which will be offered next semester, 
the schedule and classrooms for each, the instructor's name, and complete istructions for registration. Please obtain 
one and carefully read and follow the instructions contained in it
A single registration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used for 
registration. It will provide an additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic information on file 
for you and provide a form on which to list and have approved your program for the coming semester.
1. Pick-up your R3D Form from your department and correct the demographic information.
(Forms for H&SS freshmen and sophomores will be available in the H&SS Advising Center).
2. Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved.
3. Between 9:30 am. and 4:00 p.m. on November 10 or 11 go to each department teaching
the courses in which you wish to register to obtain registration approval.4. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D Form to your department You keep the last
(yellow) copy.
ff you need further information or assistance, please call the Office of the Registrar, 578- 
2004.

---------------------------------------------------

November 9, 1982The TartanPage 7
MUSIC ENTERS A NEW 
INDUSTRIAL AGE.
MEN AT WORK
Australia's hottest band finds gainful 
employment in the U.S., Business As 
Usual. Their American debut. Featuring 
the # t hit, Who Can It Be Now?' I
plus the new single, Down Under | 
and "Be Good Johnny 
On Columbia Records and Tapes.
It greets the public without one dud, 
and those who take it home will find the 
album delivers all it promised.'
ROLLING STONE
Available at:
Oasis3712 Forbes Ave Oakland
A Paradise of price 
$6.49 album or cassette 
offer good through Nov. 21
Pioduitd by Pelei Melon Cokjmbio is o Itodemwi ol CBS The c 198? CBS lot
Forum held
A dministration discusses the IBM contract
Aid kept from resisters
Appearing at Stanley Theatre, 11/12
[eMcPMEbk mhes iwFb 
those to be implemented the fall of 1985, 
have graphic displays and Vi million bytes of 
storage. Their current cost is $13,000 each, 
but the actual price to CMU should be sub
stantially less.
The computers to be purchased in early 
1985, although they do not exist yet, will 
share disc storage units and should be availa
ble to CMU for less than $6000. Van Horn 
said that the computers will not be particu
lar to this school, which will make them less 
expensive and easier to maintain. We 
would like to see these machines used very 
widely, said Van Hom.
Several questions centered on the Infor
mation Technology Center, to be estab
lished and funded by IBM at CMU, and how 
it will be operated. The ITC will employ 
IBM personnel, faculty researchers, and
some students. According to Van Houweling, the contract signed provides IBM with 
copyrights to software developed by CMU 
faculty at the ITC, but computation center 
software copyrights belong to the university.
Students were also concerned about the 
social impact of individuals owning com
puters, and about their usefulness. Alan 
Newell commented that Its hard to do very 
precise planning because one simply does 
not know the phenomenon that one is 
going to run into.
Computers will be useful to H&SS stu
dents for text editing, said Newell. Although 
editing does not require all the power that 
the computers will have, Starting out with 
word processors not networked puts blind
ers on the way it will move, said Newell. 
Van Houweling added, Our technological 
writing majors do not only write.
One fine arts student asked whether CMU 
might become a conservatory of computers. 
The university becomes what the depart
ments are interested in, said Van Hom. It 
has entirely too much good sense to just 
become a computer conservatory.
Van Houweling referred to Dartmouth 
University in answer to a question of 
whether the type of people CMU attracts 
will shift to only people interested in com
puters. According to Van Houweling, stu
dents at Dartmouth, which instituted a 
similar computer plan, did not all become 
hackers.
As Walter was closing the forum, a drama 
student shouted, In no way is CFA ever 
going to use computers as an integral part of 
itself. Calling CFA a rock in the shoe of
the university in regards to the computer 
issue, he said, Its a better idea that CFA be 
removed from the university and set up a 
different institution.
Van Hom denied that CFA is a roc k in the 
universitys shoe. Each discipline ends up 
with a series of special facilities that enhance 
that discipline, he said. If you dont need 
them (computers), you probably wont have 
them. However, there will probably be no 
tuition breaks for CFA. Said Van Houwel
ing, Its a less expensive way of providig 
computers, not a more expensive way.
At the very end of the forum, another CFA 
student commented, Students are going to 
be more selective; there will be a different 
breed of students coming in.
(CPS)The U.S. government has officially 
signed up another draftee in its effort to 
track down and punish men who-h^ye not 
registered for military service: college finan
cial aid offices.
Aid officers, however, are not willingly 
accepting their draft notices to deny aid to 
nonregistrants.
 Our job is to help students go to school, 
said Thomas Scarlett, aid director at Michi
gan State, not to be an enforcement arm of 
the government.
Aid officers now find themselves cast as 
the bad guys, added Francis Mondragon, 
Cal-Berkeleys aid director. I dont see our 
position as being the police.
But as of next July 1st, Scarlett, Mon
dragon and their peers will in fact find 
themselves as important cogs in the registra
tion process. Under a law signed last month 
by President Reagan, male students must 
show proof of military registration before 
they can get financial aid.
The aid officers who must enforce the law 
look at it as a govemment-rriade change in 
their job descriptions.
They also fear it will bury them in paper
work, overload their office staffs, muddy 
their mission, force them to discriminate 
against male aid applicants, increase their 
administrative costs and even make them 
into targets of lawsuits from disgruntled 
students.
Most of the worrying is anticipatory, since 
the government hasnt yet told them exactly 
what they have to do to implement the law.
The Selective Service and the U.S. Dept, 
of Education are working on a 50-50 basis
m?""!prayer vjjevery Friday
night at 8 p.m.
at Mellon
Institute
Bellefield Ave.
(Across from
Heinz Chapel)
Oakland, Pa.
call Rege for
... information:
j 262-3950.
in figuring out ways to enforce the law, said 
Education Department official Bob Jamroz.
The main problem, he said, is determin
ing how do we go about verifying that a 
student is telling the truth.
The burden of proof, said Betty Alex
ander, a spokeswoman with the Selective 
Service, will be on the [aid] applicant or the 
financial aid office.
Among the alternatives now under dis
cussion are requiring aid offices to send a list 
of 18- to 20-year-old students to Washing
ton, DC, or to compare lists of male appli
cants to a list of registrants supplied by the 
Selective Service.
In addition, students must have to sign a 
[eMcPMEbk eM iwFb 
Top administrators answer questions from students and faculty about personal computers 
and the contract with IBM.

---------------------------------------------------

Fact not Fiction: the CMU/IBM Contract
A Menage From the Joint SDC/Student Senate Committee on Computing
The Student Senate and The Student Dormitory Council have recently formed a joint committee to examine the issues related to the recent 
CMU/IBM computer contract. The purposes of the committee are to compile information on the plans for the future of computing here at CMU, 
to disseminate the information to the campus community at large, to provide a forum for student input, and to provide feedback to the 
administration based on the student input.
THE CONTRACT
CMU and IBM signed a three-year contract on October 20,1982, which provides for research into the development of a distributive network 
capable of supporting up to 10,000 personal computers. The contract provides for the formation of the Information Technology Center (the 
ITC). This Center will be the laboratory facility for the development of tlte.software for the project.
A summary of the major provisions of the contract: ^''"S..
1) CMU is not obligated to buy any personal computers.
2) CMU will provide physical space for the Information Technology Center. IBM wilT jiayrent to cover the costs of this space.
3) CMU will provide IBM with rights to use the CANVAS and ACCENT programs from the SFfE Research Project of the 
Computer Science Department. CANVAS is a user interface and ACCENT an operating system.
4) CMU and IBM will each provide up to fifteen researchers for the ITC CMU will provide any necessafy^upport staff 
(administrators, secretaries, etc.) for the Center. Through the contract, IBM has agreed to pay the salaries otthe^CMU 
researchers and staff as well as the salaries of their own employees.
5) CMU has the right to buy up to 40 IBM personal computers (the CS-9000 series) at a reduced cost.
6) IBM will provide $90,000 for social science research related to the impact of a high density computing environment. The 
research will be done at CMU.
7) IBM owns any software developed at the ITC or any software developed under contract at the computation center.
8) CMU and IBM will begin discussions on the next phase of the project within two years.
Currently planned, but not specifically stated in the contract:
1) The ITC will temporarily be housed on the second floor of the newly built GSIA addition. Permanent space will be provided 
in a building to be constructed on the site of the Coal Research Laboratory. The Laboratory is scheduled for demolition as soon as 
its current residents can be relocated.
2) It is expected that CMU and IBM will each contribute ten researchers to the ITC.
COMMON QUESTION
1) Should every student be forced to buy a computer?
If the network functions well, it is the administrations goal to have every student buy a computer. Some students may show 
that they will not derive enough benefit from the machines to justify their expense. If this is the case, the administration does not 
currently plan to force such students to buy them.
2) What is the life expectancy of the machines?
The computers should be useful for many years after graduation, however, they probably will not be marketable to incoming 
students. As the system evolves, new editions of the computer will come out like new editions of a textbook. Trying to use old 
models of the computer will be like trying to use old edition of a textbook in class.
3) If students are required to buy the computers, how will maintenance and security be handled?
The administration is concerned about security and maintenance, but really has not studied these issues yet.
4) How will space be made for the machines?
The administration admits that the machines will require a significant amount of space. They intend to experiment with 
various configurations in order to determine how to best integrate the machines into the dormitory environment. However, no 
specific plans have been made yet.
5) Who will pay for the research currently planned for the network?
IBM is footing the bill for this stage of the project. Their intentions, of course, are not entirely academic; they are providing 
the research capital for a massive effort to determine whether such a network is feasible, in hopes of creating a marketable 
product.

---------------------------------------------------

NACYRINITY
Between now and 1986, a transition will occur to lay the foundation for the implementation of the large network. This does not mean that 
CMU will definitely build such a network. CMU expects to purchase the 40 CS-9000 computers. Between two and four hundred additional 
personal computers, of a currently unspecified type, will be purchased. These computers will replace some of the existing terminals as well as 
augment the current computing facilities. The University believes they can supply a great* amount of additional computing power through the 
personal computers than they could have supplied through the addition of large timesharing machines like the Decsystem 20s. Some machines 
will be issued to faculty to develop software and others will go to the public terminal rooms. The work stations will be able to serve as terminals for 
the timesharing system or act as independent processors.
After the three year development contract expires, there is a possibility for an additional contract to implement the network system. This 
contract would be negotiated independently of the current contract. The second phase is optional, it will only take place if both parties are 
interested in continuing. There are two options currently being considered for the second phase: clusters or individually owned computers. The 
clusters option would provide groups of computers to be shared by the students in the dormitories. The other option would be to issue each 
incoming student a personal computer, the cost of which would be amortized over the course of the students years at CMU. At the end of each 
students term at CMU, he will own the computer and will be able to take it with him. There are plans which would enable alumni to have access 
to the network from anywhere in the country through telephone lines.
';,4
THE EQUIPMENT
Both options would use machines that are linked together into a massive network. Rather than using individual disk storage, groups of 
between fifty and one hundred work stations will share a file server through a local network. The clusters will be linked together and to the main 
computers and disks through a backbone network. When an individual logs into his Work stations, his files will be transferred to the file server 
from the main disks. All file access and use will be accomplished through this server. Any additional files used will be summoned from the 
networks disks to the file servers as needed. Large mainframe computers will still be present for jobs too big for the individual work stations to 
process. Otherwise, most actual computing will be done on the work stations.
The CS-9000 computer (the transition machine which CMU will purchase shortly) is based on a 16 bit Motorola 68000 processor. The 
machine has a half megabyte of internal memory, and comes equipped with a ten megabyte Winchester type disk system. The CS-9000also has a 
bit-mapped display capable of high resolution monochrome graphics.
To enable most computing to be done on the individual work stations, the administration has set goals on their computing power. Each 
personal computer will have a 32 bit processor with virtual memory capable of executing between 0.5 to 1.0 million instructions per second, and 
between 0.5 and 1.0 million bytes of random access memory, a high resolution bit-mapped graphics display, a graphics tablet, and keyboard input. 
In areas where different applications necessitate more powerful computers (in the Art Department, for example, where color graphics capability 
may be required), clusters of better, more expensive machines will be made available.
COSTS
The administration has not determined what will be the cost of the computers. The most common guestimate of the cost, if the students are 
required to buy the machines, is $3000. Students will have to bear the brunt of the costs of the personal computers, whether it will be through 
increased tuition or by a separate fee added onto each semesters bill. Of course, any additional cost due to the machines will be considered in 
computing each students financial aid.
PEOPLE TO CONTACT FOR MORE INFORMATION
The two administrators most active in the operations of the project are Provost Richard Van Horn and Vice Provost for Computing and 
Planning Doug Van Houweling. Both can be reached at their Warner Hall offices. Dr. Van Houweling oversees all computing on campus and 
runs the day to-day operation of the project. Dr. Van Hom makes the overall policy decisions for the project. Both have expressed a willingness 
to meet with students either in forums or in private to discuss current computer issues.
It is imperative at this stage that student input be made into the process. The Committee will be publishing a survey in the near future to 
determine what is the student opinion on the subject and will appreciate your cooperation in order to make the survey a success. In addition, 
students are invited to attend committee meetings or to call committee members. Their phone numbers are:
Janelle Molloy (chair)x4608
Francie Elikanx4835
Paula Franklinx4438
Jon Maimanx8610
Stephen Paff621-7252
Laura Sabadell621-6508
Scott Safierx4111
Please call if you have any questions or comments to make on the computing issue.
This announcement is funded by the Activities Fee and The Student Dormitory Council.

---------------------------------------------------

FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12 
9:00 P.M.-2:00 A.M. 
BALLROOM
music: B.E. Taylor
& Wham 
movie: 'Beach Party".

---------------------------------------------------

November 9, 1982The TartanPage 11
Federal aw massed
Draft dodgers not entitled to financial aid
[eMcPMEbk mhes iwFb 
form swearing they had registered and to 
show some kind of proof that theyre telling 
the truth.
The actual guidelines wont be out for 
two or three months, according to Educa
tion Department spokesman Duncan 
Helmrich.
Aid officers arent happy about any of the 
possible alternatives.
Kansas State University Aid Director 
Robert Evans said comparing lists of appli
cants and registrants raises memories of try
ing to cope with inaccurate government 
information during the Vietnam era.
Unless [Selective Services] database sys
tem is improved, real problems [of delayed 
aid awards] could occur, he says.
At Florida State, supplying the govern
ment with a list of male aid applicants 
w'ould not be a problem, said Aid Director 
Edward Marsh, but thinks it would cause 
considerable trouble at schools still on a 
manual system of processing 
applications.
At computerized Berkeley, supplying lists 
will create a tremendous amount of work 
in our office, Mondragon said.
Michigan States Scarlett dismissed all the 
mentioned alternatives as more bureau
cratic red tape.
"It was a tough bill for Congress not to 
pass, observed Dennis Martin of the 
National Association of Student Financial 
Aid Administrtors, because voting against it 
would suggest voting for the felony of regis
tration resistance.
Opposing the bill, added Florida States 
Marsh, would have been equivalent to 
opposing God and country, mom and 
apple pie.
Few aid administrators raised the possibil
ity theyd refuse to go along with the law, 
however.
Penalties for colleges that dont obey the 
draft law is one of the grayer areas, Martin 
said.
Berkeleys Mondragon is worried the new 
law will force him to break an older civil
rights law. It forces him to place a condition 
on mens educations that he doesnt have to 
place on womens, which, he fears, violates 
Title IX of the Higher Education Amend
ments of 1972.
Title IX forbids discrimination on the 
basis of gender.
Congress has passed a law and the presi
dent has signed it, jamroz said. We have a 
law we have to enforce.
The only college to take any sort of offi
cial stand against the new aid law is Earlham College in Indiana. Earlham, a Quaker 
school, is not not complying with the 
law, said Aid Director Kathy Malutich.
But it is committing itself to finding like 
aid to any serious registration resister 
who is cut off from federal student aid for 
military reasons.
Print studios to be moved
photo by John 5>ulwell
Some students are still burning up over President Cyert's handling of the future of 
computing at CMU.
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffwriter
The printmaking studios of the depart
ment of art are being moved from the Coal 
Research Building next to Warner Hall to a 
U.S. Bureau of Mines Building, so the old 
building can be tom down and a new one 
built for the ITC (Information Technology 
Center).
The art faculty and students have no pro
test against the move which is expected to 
take place November 12 and 13, since the 
Bureau of Mines building appears to offer 
adequate facilities. Next May they will move 
to a permanant home in the sub-basement 
of Doherty Hall.
Originally, some faculty and students 
feared the new facilities wouldnt provide 
adequate ventilation, but according to printmaking professor Bruce Carter, Were look
ing forward to the move, and the 
printmaking staff will work through the 
Thanksgiving vacation to insure that the 
new area is prepared for the students. 
Carter said he understands the universi
tys desire to receive free computer equip
ment from IBM, which will be housed in the 
new building. This may demonstrate the 
priorities of the university, but I think it will 
give the student a preview of the real world, 
he said. The ITC building is expected to cost 
the university between three million and 
four million dollars to build.
STUDENT SENATE AGENDA
Nov. 9, 1982
l .w88 ce (hkbh pGG) 7-bhhbcc 5ees
Ol 5e88 .w88
l riiheIw8 em c-b JPMEcb,
Ul rEkPbM[b TwhcP[PiwcPeM0 r88 ,cEkbMc, whb PMIPcbk ce
wkkhb,, c-b ,bMwcb eM wMN 
swccbh, em [eM[bhM ce c-bsl
l (mmP[bh, 5biehc,
Dean Walter - Administration 
Dean Cox - Administration 
Mark Marseila - SDC 
Charlie Krafft - GSO \
Gina Fleitman - UFO
Nate Solano - Student Govt. Pres.
Alexandra Kavoulakis - Senate Chairman 
Janelle Molloy - Senate Vice-Chairman
Rl gbMwcb gcwMkPMF .essPccbb 5biehc,
Rules - General Announcements
Academic Affairs - Two resolutions concerning
teaching assistants
General Campus and Info. - General
Announcements
Finance - General Announcements
l )HBFIN 9E,PMb,,
Dl WbMbhw8 fP,[E,,PeM
vl rMMeEM[bsbMc,
Gl rkqeEhMsbMc
A
THE SECONDS OF STUDENT SENATE 
November 2, 1982
In this session of YOUR Student Senate, the Senators heard 
Miss Monica Cellio take advantage of the Audience Partic
ipation period to reiterate her belief that she should be 
able to join the Senate-SDC sponsored Joint Committee on. 
Computing. This period is open to all CMU students and can 
allow one person to actually make a real difference . Dean 
Walter said he was very pleased with the response to the 
recent Student Affairs Forum, at which about 125 students 
showed up. He would like any feedback from concerned stu
dents. Dean Cox, stressing the importance of filling out 
and returning organizational survey forms, especially 
urged funded organizations to do so . The forms are availa
ble at the Skibo Information Desk. Student Government 
President Solano thanked all who helped with and attended 
the Tuition Rally, and believes it really showed student 
strength and committment. The Senate also approved of 
certain members of the A Phi 0 organization to constitute 
the Election Board. SDC President Marseila told Senate of 
some issues his organization was working on. These 
include a report requested by the Board of Trustees Bldg. 
and Grounds Committee on need for possible new dorm. SDC 
will strive to get off-campus complaints fixed faster and 
will also urge that better accomodations in the Commuter 
Lounge be made. UFO is still attempting to drop the food 
requirements for fraternity pledges to a zero-level as in 
past years. The Chair, Miss Kavoulakis, appointed Gina 
Osborn as Chair of the General Campus and Information Com
mittee, whose last chair, Miss Leigh Ritter, resigned 
from Senate tonight. Vioe-Chair Molloy announced the 
Judioial Committee was still looking into establishing a 
Judicial branch of Student GTtmSSRl. T potential sur
vey for is being prepared. In other items, the bus drivers 
are operating so that there is always one work-study and
one regular employee on at all times. Once more, all stu
dents are urged to speak to the Senators, in their offioe 
hours, and on campus, and also cone to the Senate Meetings 
Tuesdays at 7 p .a. in the Wherrett room, and to speak dur
ing the Audienoe participation period.
Respeot fully submitted, 
Ralph M. Sherman 
Secretary of Senate

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 9, 1982
Tanzer disputes CMU's "competition
[eMcPMEbk mhes iwFb U
day. Specifically, the statements made by 
you in that days Pittsburgh Press. The 
insensitivity here really showed. You 
couldnt understand why students were get
ting upset over next years tuition increase. 
Well, with the recession, $1200 is too hefty a 
chunk of money for most middle class fami
lies to afford. Nineteen percent is greater 
than triple the current inflation rate.
When you mention that this year we are 
bargain basement-priced compared to Bran
dis, Harvard, Yale, and MIT, our competi
tion, you are in fact lying. Those schools are 
not our competition and you know it. Our 
competition are schools like RPI, CaseWestern, University of Rochester, and Geor
gia Tech. If we were ever to compete with 
Harvard and MIT, wed have library facili
ties open 24 hours a day, ample classroom
space, and most of the departments ranked 
in the top 10 or 15 in the nation. Only a few
are.
Your statement in The Tartan that tui
tion is published well in advance so students 
can change schools if they cant afford to go 
here is elitist. Most presidents would state 
that this much lead time is to give student 
input and comment into the figures. With 
such insensitive statements, it is no wonder
that the protest rally was such a success.
I hope you will listen to what I have to 
say. Im glad Im getting out of here, because
I like being in an environment where I feel 
that those in charge listen to me.
Regretfully yours 
(but only until December) 
Aaron Tanzer 
Aaron Tanzer is a senior in MEMS, and is 
a columnist for The Tartan.
If youve always looked for what s around the comer rather than what is straight ahead, consider a career with Linkabit.Linkabit didnt get to where it is today by way of tunnel vision. Were a leader in the design, development and manufacture of satellite and terrestrial communications equipment, specializing in local communication networks, encryption, forward error correction and high speed modulation. Our people are very creative, free thinking individuals who look beyond obvious solutions to find advanced, innovative ways to meet the demanding needs of this industry.To help keep new ideas flowing, weve made surethat all career paths are flexible. Our engineers, forinstance, are assigned to projects depending on theirinterests and abilities. As one assignment is, , , ______________________ _ > oiroil^nlp in acompieieu, new opponuiniieb aie avu.1........variety of areas.Because our projects are very diverse and complex, we utilize the most advanced equipment available. And our staff is comprised of professionals
with a wide range of expertise.Our company is expanding rapidly, and were constantly looking for talented people interested in communications systems, digital hardware or software engineering. We have positions available in San Diego, Boston and Washington, D.C.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19.Please contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an interview appointment. If you are unable to meet with our representatives, please forward your resume to: Dennis Vincent, M/A-COM LINKABIT,3033 Science Park Road, San Diego, CA 92121.
-JL M/A-COM LINKABST, NC.
Equal Opportunity/
Affirmative Action Employer
Were looking for people who dont think straight.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Anti-nukes come toPgh.
By NELSON GUDA
UpTNps vNpllfTtNhT
This Thursday and Friday CMU, Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and over 500 other univer
sities across the nation will participate in a 
large-scale effort to inform the public on the 
increasing threat of nuclear war. This 
nationwide campus convocation is being 
sponsored nationally by the Union of Con
cerned Scientists, Physicians for Social 
Responsibility, United Campuses to Pre
vent Nuclear War, and Lawyers Alliance for 
Nuclear Arms Control.
Locally, however, the event will be organ
ized by the University of Pittsburgh Arms 
Race Study Group, Chatham Arms Race 
Study Group, and the CMU Arms Control 
Study Group now known as the Peace 
Alliance.
The keynote speaker for the convocation 
will be William Kircade, execudve director 
of the Arms Control Association in 
Washington, who will speak on the subject 
of Future Directions for Arms Control  at 8 
p.m., Thursday, in the Graduate School of 
Public Health auditorium, University of 
Pittsburgh. The main emphasis of the con
vocation, however, will be on the work
shops and films given Thursday at Pitt and
Friday at CMU from 9:30 a.m. to 5.00 p.m.
The workshops will cover such topics as 
arms reduction proposals, the impact of the 
arms race on our economy, foreign policy 
and weapons, historical perspectives on the 
arms race, and mutual perceptions of the 
U.S. and U.S.S.R. The films, most of which 
will be shown in Hunt Library, include: a 
fifteen minute short on the after affects of the 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings; The 
War Game, a realistic depiction of a 
nuclear attack on Britain produced by the 
BBC and banned for public broadcast; and a 
Soviet film on the dangers of the neutron 
bomb.
- The convocation will end in Hunt 
Library with a visual and musical produc
tion called Music for an Apocolypse by 
SOFEX and an improvisational dance 
against the arms race by the Pittsburgh 
Dance Alloy.
Exact information on the times and pla
ces of the workshops and films will be avail
able at the convocation. For more 
information on the convocation, or if you 
are interested in joining the CMU Peace 
Alliance, call Dr. Wolfenstein at x2752 or 
Peggy Domer at x2496.
Rath and Bethel'Alcohol awareness program intoxicates students
By TERI BRIER
Tartan Staffwriter
Drinking and Driving Issues was the 
topic of the second lecture in the Alcohol
Awareness Program sponsored by the 
Department of Student Activities last Thurs
day. The featured speakers were Vernon 
Rath, M.E.D., D.U.I. (Driving Under the
Influence) coordinator at St. Francis Hospi
tal, and Paul Bethal, an Oakland probation 
officer.
Thirty-three percent of all U.S. traffic 
fatalities are caused by drunk drivers, says 
Dr. Rath. He feels this percentage can be 
lowered by harsher treatment for first-time 
D.U.I. offenders along with mandatory jail 
sentences and fines.
Dr. Rath discussed St. Francis Acceler
ated Rehabilitated Disposition (A.R.D.) 
probation, a program unaffiliated with the 
court system designed for first-time offend
ers that has had much success in the Pitts
burgh area educating people to the dangers 
of drinking and driving.
Before laws can be changed, Dr. Rath 
states, we must change peoples attitudes. 
We live in a society where it is acceptable to 
drink, so existing D.U.I. laws are not as 
vigorously enforced as they should be.
Officer Bethel continued with the legal 
aspects of drunk driving by outlining the 
court process as well as explaining the 
methods of testing for intoxication, such as
breath and field sobriety tests.
A major portion of the evening consisted 
of the two speakers remarking on the signifi
cance of various statistics. The most impor
tant statistic is the well-known 
blood-alcohol content (BAC) at which one 
is considered legally intoxicated  0.10 per
cent. While driving at this level, one has 
seven times more of a chance of having a 
collision than when sober. At 0.15 percent 
BAC, that risk greatly increases to 25 times 
more.
Dr. Rath warned the audience of several 
common misconceptions people have about 
alcohol. The truth is that alcohol does not 
contain nutrients, only calories; it is a depres
sant, not a stimulant; and the only way to 
sober up is through the passage of time.
Both Dr. Rath and Officer Bethels pres
entation led to the same point. Blood and 
alcohol mix only too well; if you drink, 
dont drive.eating the system: using and misusing BBOARDS
y ALEX CZAJKGWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter 
There is an interesting and amusing conlict growing on the inside of the Decsystem0, namely the use and mis-use of 
^BOARDs.
BBOARDs are like computer mail, except 
it anyone can read the messages on the 
ABOARD, or post them on the BBOARD.
id sometimes its too bad.
First of all, BBOARDs do have some uses; 
!ore and more professors are using them to 
)st c^ass assignments and test solutions, 
[he GENERAL BBOARD can, on occa[0n have something worthwhile on it (Van 
lalen tickets for sale, for example. What 
^se would you do with Van Halen tickets?). 
lese official BBOARDS are accessible 
fm any system.
ot*ler hand Computer Club 
()ARD references several private 
uARDs. Although anyone can read 
fittnand post on them, you have to know 
*here they arc, what theyre called and have
time, energy and inclination to waste on 
them. What fun it is to make Rock jokes 
on TOPSD [tz01]Random! What a waste of 
system resources!
But you should know how to play, as 
BBOARDS may become more respectable 
and more useful. They are a convenient way 
to reach a bunch of similar interested indi
viduals without having to clog the system 
with a million mail messages.
The format of the BBOARDs are like that 
of Mail files, and they are accessed in a sim
ilar way. The best way to start is to type 
BBOARD at the @ sign and hit return. 
Youll get the BBOARD prompt.
Type ? to get your command options, as 
always. Youll see the commands and the 
system bboards. I suggest you start by typing 
READ GENERAL/ MORE-MODE and 
hitting return. (If you type another ? after the 
GENERAL, youll see all of the potential 
switches you can choose from.)
The next thing thatll happen is a 
HEADER line will appear with a date, 
name and subject on itYou should also see
a line with -more?-- on it. This is the More
mode. If the subject interests you, just type a 
return and youll see the complete message, 
otherwise, type an N to see the next message. 
Again type a ? to see your options. Play with 
it! Leam to find your way around in the 
BBOARD.
You might want to look at some other 
BBOARDS, but probably not. So far, unless 
the BBOARD has a very specific purpose 
(i.e. for a class), theyre not very exciting. 
Few people currently use them, or even 
know about them.
[eMcPMEbk eM ibFQ U
82 Yiddish festival
November offers a variety of interesting 
programs about Yiddish drama. Each is a 
part of the 1982 Yiddish Festival, sponsoi ed 
by the Jewish Community Center, Labor 
Zionist Alliance and Workmens Circle.
The first, is a lecture by Professor Itche 
Goldberg, Sunday, November 14 on the his
tory erf Yiddish drama. Professor Goldberg 
is a well-known author, editor, lecturer and 
editor in chief erf the magazine Yiddish Kultur. He is also director of the Service Bureau 
for Jewish Education, and the Shidowsky 
Foundation.
He will appear at the Squirrel Hill Irene 
Kaufmann Building. Tickets are $3.
On November 22, the Yiddish Festival 
presents the Golden Land, a portrayal of 
the Jewish immigrant experience in Amer
ica, beginning before the turn erf the century. 
Through songs and scenes of life in the new 
country, the program is a tribute to those 
who helped lay the foundations of Jewish 
life in America. Arranged through the 
Workmens Circle Education Department 
of New York, the program costs $7, $5 for 
senior wkE8c, and ,cEkbMc,l

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 9, 1982
te...
continued from iwFb 13
There are, of course, advanced BBOARD 
tricks, just like there are for Mail programs. 
If there is enough interest in them, Ill write 
about them. But not here. A BBOARD 
would probably be the most appropriate 
place, eh?
But try reading a BBOARD, try the GEN
ERAL one. Its on all systems, and when 
you POST something to it (BBOARD] 
POST GENERAL [ret]) it will eventually 
appear on all the TOPS systems. Its not a
bad way to communicate, considering how 
everybodys spread out over six machines. 
The only problem is these few 
write the most inane, stupid things 
ever read. Sometimes its fun to read them so 
when you see the jerk you can point and 
laugh and stare. Please do so.
Questons and comments can be sent to 
AClH@TOPSD or TOPSB. Or even 
dropped off at the Tartan. Or posted on the 
HirSS BBOARD. Just follow the instruc
tions above.
The tree by the fence eerily splits the light beaming from Doherty.photo by Brian Yen
Sleeping baggers check out a possible future at CMU.
Investment Club votes
' Last Thursday, the Investment dub dis
cussed and voted on two stocks  William 
Electronics and General Nutrition cen
ter. Each club member has the right to 
bring a prospective investment to the floor 
for debate. A vote is then taken on each 
investment, with a 2/3 quorum (defined 
as 2/3 of the voting members) needed to 
approve it.
When the votes were tallied, William 
Electronics had 55% for approval and GNC 
had 58%.
Eric Spray researched and presented Wil
liam Electronics. This company produces 
video games and some are well known  
Defender, Stargate, and Moon Patrol. 
Sprays arguments supporting it were four
fold: Williams is in a growing industry, they 
are leasing the software cartridges to Atari, 
the price/earnings ratio (Relationship 
between the companies earnings and the 
stock price) was low and on an upward 
trend, and they were diversifying into the 
gambling industry.
Spray did not try and mislead members. 
He pointed out that Williams is very risky. 
Unless they constantly produce new and 
innovative video games, theyll go nowhere 
and they are in a highly competitive 
business.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cans (& quarts) 
STROHS
L OWENBRAU lt., Dk.,-bottles
MICHftOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON C'TY 
ERLANGER -bottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texos)bottles 
DOUBLE DARKbottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottl<
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHE10B LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tuna  Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steok  Sausage 
Veal  Chuck  Chicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday 1 pm-2 am 
Imports, Cans, Quorts, Draft Pitchers Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different !6oz. 6 pfc. 
featured each week
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK S L* Ok Germany 
BASS ALE  England 
HARP LAGER  Ireland 
MOLSON GOLDEN Canada 
HEINEKEN It Dk -Holland 
10WENBRAU Germany 
0 KEEK ALE-Conado 
PILSNER URQUELL -Czech 
KIRIN-japan
MACKESSON STOUT - h eland 
OLD VIENNA LAGER-Canada 
55 LAGER  Canada
ST PAULI GIRLGermany 
DOS EQUIS XXMexico 
JOHN COURAGEEngland 
WATNETSEngland 
CARLSBERG ELEPHANT-Den 
CARLSBERG ROYALE  Denmark 
CARLSBERG DARK  Denmork 
TSINGTAO Owna 
HACKER PSCMORRGermany 
LABATTS-Canada 
MURPHY  Ireland 
COOPER & SON-Australia 
fOSTfR S LAGER -Austrolio
NOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs 
9am-4:45am Fri-Sat 
Coll 621 7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Ave, (Oakland) 
Pgh,, PA 15213
The University Outreach
Presents
THE
ga3CS 9rCf
In Concert
Conference Hall 
Mellon Institute 
S. Beliefield Ave.
Oakland
November 19, 1982  8:00 p.m. 
Free Admission
CALL REGE (262-3950) 
for more information
The second stock, GNC, was investigated 
by Amy Achre. GNC is a retail nutrition 
company with over 900 stores nationwide. 
The company was founded in Pittsburgh 
and went public (sold common stock) in 
1980.
Achre was enthusiastic about the com
panys future. She supported her judgement 
by showing that GNCs eamings-per-share 
(net income/common shares outstanding) 
doubled since last year. This means that 
GNCs profits had increased twofold. Achre 
expanded by pointing out that GNC is constandy growing and is presendy in the pro
cess of opening 100 new stores in the U.S. 
and some in Europe. After thorough discus
sion, it was evident that GNC was looked 
upon favorably, however its market price of 
23% seemed unwarranted.
Both stocks received a better than majority 
vote but it was not enough to reach the 2/3 
approval level.
Members were excited about the prospects 
and many gained insight into how to pres
ent a stock for consideration. Although 
neither investment was approved, it shows 
that members are listening and weighing 
arguments both for and against the invest
ment and not throwing darts when 
choosing a stock.
PREGNANT? Can NoN
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
Free and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INCa non-profit organization
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
Flashback: America vs. Russia ... in Cuba
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Im too lazy to write an introduction for 
this column, so there isnt any. Some nitpickers will say that this paragraph actually 
consitiutes an introduction despite my 
claim that it is not one. Those sort of people 
should ponder the following sentence: 
Dont believe anything you read in this 
column, including this sentence.
20 YEARS AGO: Nov. 7, 1962
disheartened,
8c tartand. 
the store selling books - 
distrusted my looks! 
their petty decrees 
de(sign)ed to displease 
inauspidously direct 
any personal effect
to a table near the door 
(so one wont relieve the store 
of something he shouldnt!)
continued on page 16
Bboard does tricks
It is reported that Professor Wolfenstein, 
of the Physics department, gave a speech on 
the Cuban situation. He stated that The 
nuclear armament of Cuba would represent 
no new or unique threat to American secur
ity. The missiles stationed within the Soviet 
Union are adequate to annihilate the mil
itary potential of the U.S. He also criticized 
our double standard in calling everything 
the U.S. does right and everything Russia 
does dishonest and wrong. He claims if 
we force the Soviets to stop arming Cuba,
they might force the U.S. to remove our 
bases from Turkey and other foreign coun
tries. If we refused, a full-scale nuclear war 
might erupt.
30 YEARS AGO: Nove. 11, 1952 
(From the Letters page)
Editor, the Tartan:
So this is Tech!
By heck 
Im confused, 
amused,

---------------------------------------------------

November 9, 1982The TartanPage 15
Flashdance adds sparkle to Pittsburgh
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
If you walked past Carnegie Institute on 
Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday of the last 
week in October, you probably noticed 
something a litde unusual. For one thing, 
Q was calling itself The Pittsburgh Dance 
and Repertory Company. For another, 
men with walkie-talkies were keeping peo
ple away from the front entrance.
The reason for all of the commotion was 
flashdance, a movie about a female welder 
from Pittsburgh who decides to enter the 
wonderful world of dance.
You say you never heard of it? That could 
be because it doesnt open until May of next 
year But last week, the cast and crew came to 
Carnegie Institute to film some on-location 
shots.
The Flashdance crew started filming in 
Pittsburgh on October 18, and filmed scenes 
downtown, in an unfinished subway tun
nel, and on the Southside. On Wednesday, 
October 27 it brought Hollywood to Oak
land, as trailer trucks bearing the Para
mount Pictures logo blocked off most of 
the Cl front parking lot, and part of Forbes 
as well.
The films producers, Don Simpson and 
Jerry Bruckheimer, are no strangers to film. 
Simpson has been President of Production 
at Paramount until this past June. Bruck
heimer has produced such films as Ameri
can Gigolo and Young Doctors in Love.
Bruckheimer explains why they decided 
to film in Pittsburgh. The script (by Tom 
Hedley and Joe Eszterhas) called for a nor
theastern industrial town. So we came here, 
among other places. Pittsburgh is a good 
industrial town. Adrian (Lyne, the films
director) fell in love with it. It looks almost 
like a small European town.
Though tne crew and the pnncipal cast 
members came from Los Angeles or New 
York, all of the extras were hired in the 
Pittsburgh area, including many from 
CMUs drama department.
Since most of the parts called for steel
workers, however, Bruckheimer and Simp
son asked the steel unions for unemployed 
workers. We needed people who knew cer
tain jobs, Bruckheimer said, Welders, 
rivetters, and so on. They did a great job. In 
fact, some were so agressive, in a good way, 
we hired them as pa*. of the crew.
The movies star was hired in somewhat 
the same way. Simpson and Bruckheimer 
decided that they wanted to cast an 
unknown actress in the leading role. They 
and the director traveled to key cities 
around the country, auditioning for the 
part. Out of 5000 auditions, the decided on 
Jennifer Beals, an eighteen year old student 
at Yale. Understandably, Beals decided that 
Flashdance was worth taking a year off from 
school.
Beals shouldnt be intimidated because of 
her lack of film experience. The male lead, 
Michael Nouri, has not had a major role in a 
motion picture. He has appeared, however, 
on televisions Gangster Chronicles and 
Search for Tomorrow.
Like Nouri, the director has not had 
much film experience. Lyne has done 
many spots on British television, and has 
won awards at the Cannes film festival for 
them. His only American film, though, was 
Foxes, which starred Jody Foster.
After filming in Pittsburgh until October 
29, the Flashdance crew left for Los Angeles,
where all of the studio shooting will be 
done. The movie is scheduled to appear in
theaters in May. Who knows, maybe youll 
be in it.
Adrian Lyne, director of Flashdance, was impressed with the many Pittsburgh extras.
Flashdance, a film about a Pittsburgh female welder who turns to dance, was filmed in front 
of Carnegie Institute with a few extras from the CMU Drama Department.
Marcelle's Typing Service
vnhetp-tyho ts ,wTr 
PTwehootsM
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
ipoN ClltethsN bhpowspu-h 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
152 rtoew3sN ftNg ew3nws
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Che CUCKRS
2236 CTnJMJkY &VNU 
pnxseuRCb. P&. *217
52J-0249
An old-time shop 
where nice old books 
are bought, sold, appraised, 
searched for, and appreciated.
Browsers welcome.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 9, 1982
Flashback: game of tag
continued from page 14
I must infer
40 YEARS AGO: Nov. 10, 1942
h/tOij ITjtflfiUU l/1il AfAjU *
the manager 
believes 
were thieves!
This asininity 
is contradictory.
the evil avatar 
assumes we are 
to prevent 
one wickedly bent
from copping, when able 
my book from the table?
Mr. Manager:
O.K. Were all immoral wretches. So 
Ill take my books along wherer I go.
Signed, 
K.E.L.
Last Monday, Dr. Daniel E. Koshland, Jr., lectured in the Wherret Room on the topic of Chemistry as a Form of Behavior. Koshland, who 
is a member of the National Academy erf Sciences, spoke here courtesy of the Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series. His lecture correla
tions between the behavior erf basic forms of life such as snails or salmonella bacteria and the behavior erf humans. The neurons in both hu
mans and lower forms of life, Koshland said, operate according to similar principles of chemical behavior. One result of his and other researcers work has been an increased understanding of chemical causes of schizophrenia. He expects even greater breakthroughs in analyzing 
human mental diseases from chemical perspectives, but cautioned that implications of changing the chemical composition in the brain are 
not all beneficial. -
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech. a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
'Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals
and guys.
PRECISION HAIRCUT (ANY LENGTH)
$12.00(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE) 
NO APPOINTMENT
COLORPERMS FOR ALL STYLES 
$25.00
SggCNfCCJVTWRS.
PREOTON HAfCUTTERS
Mon., lues.. Wed. 10-7 237 Atwood Street
Thurs., Fri. 10*9 Across the street from
Sat 9-6 687-3500 Oakland Post OfficeNO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
When the Germans occupied the Sudentenlian in February, 1938, Paul Peter 
Gibian, now a freshman Aeronautical Engi
neer, was living with his parents and two ' 
brothers in Prague. Because his father was 
Jewish, and was at that time manufacturing 
American business machines contrary to 
German ruling, the family thought it best to 
move to England, which was then still at 
peace. After finally securing a permit from 
the Gestapo, the Gibians escaped through 
Italy to London.
The article goes on to descibe how they 
survived air raids in London with bombs 
dropping as near as fifty feet away, and 
finally crossing the ocean to the U.S. while 
playing a game of tag with a German 
submarine.
Bring this coupon to your Herff Jones 
Representative and get...
$10.00 OFF
On The Uttrium College Ring Of Your Choice, 
(Yellow or White)
Limited Time Offer
Tuesday, November 9 $15 depositDate* Wednesday, Nov. 10 required
_ ' Thursday, Nov. 11Race: Baker Hall 1 ime: 10 a m4 p.m.
I ;
j Take advantage erf the lower priced precious metals 
j market!!!
I SAVE NOW ON GOLD RINGS!
CUPTHE pQr a ||mjtc<j time only,COUPON Herff Jones is offering aAND SAVE. $10.00 discount when you 
purchase your Ultrium College Ring. You can 
now have the College Ring of your choice 
in Yellow or White Ultrium. To take advantage 
of this savings, clip out the coupon and present 
it to the Herff Jones Representative on Ring 
Day. We have a wide selection of the very 
latest College Styles. See the Herff Jones
Representative for a perfect fit.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
iiobolus troupe shows riginality at Heinz Hall
iy DIANE THODOS
artan Art Director
You are at Heinz Hall on Tuesday night, 
t is ten oclock and you are applauding six 
'ormers, almost totally naked, zipping 
lCk and forth across the stage on a 
waterslide. Who on earth could 
these people be? You look at 
your program: Pilobolus, of 
course.
The Pilobolus dance theater visited Pitts)Urgh on October 26 with performances of 
x)th old and new pieces, this being their 
Seventh year of performance.
The group began at Dartmouth College 
vhere philosophy/science major Jonathan 
Volken enrolled in an experimental dance 
lass as part of a physical education require
ment. Innocently enough, nobody in the 
lass had any idea of what dance should be. 
ays one of the Piloboli, Moses Pendleton, 
We couldnt copy from other types of dance 
scause we didnt have any background to 
opy from.
From such a premise, or should I say lack 
if premise, Pilobolus style took shape. Peole are used as basic building blocks, from 
(vhich are constructed wholes which lend 
lemselves to be amorphic creatures and 
onfigurations; bodies climb, push, pull, 
rap, swing, and teeter over each other, 
heir movements are based on physics, 
sing the laws of gravity, momentum, 
inetic energy, and mass, mimicking these 
uvs to make their creations alive and believble. What is seen on stage may not be familu, but is convincing through the illusion 
f believable physical properues.
Some have claimed their work to be closer to 
ymnastics. On this subject, Wolken says 
Gymnasts are tight. They show how diffih things can be. But the movement of the 
iloboli seem to be effortless illusions, and 
mnastics are only a means by which to 
press some intention. So the Piloboli can
not be said to be either dancers or gymnasts 
in any traditional sense; rather, their work 
comes closer to mime.
The group was named after a sun-loving 
fungus which Wolken encountered in his 
fathers CMU biophysics lab while doing 
some research. Adding to the history of 
CMU involvement with the group, a gradu
ate of this school, David M. Chapman, 
became production manager for the group 
in 1978 and designed stage lighting for 
numerous pieces, for which he has 
some degree of acclaim.
Apart from receiving awards in Europe and 
America, Pilobolus has also had exposure 
on TV, appearing on segments of 
Street and the PBS Great Performances 
Dance in America series in 1977 and 1980.
The Heinz Hall Pilobolus performance 
began with Mollys Not Dead from 1978. 
This piece shows the premises behind a lot 
of the Pilobolus style, humor, and wit. The 
audience nervously laughs at a peculiar 
human ball being bumped around by 
two equally curious dwarf-like creatures.
Later, a mournful man walks onstage ear
ly ing the dead body of a woman and sobs 
Mollys dead, she ate some leaves. Two 
other men come out and do the same, one 
with another woman, the other with a sadly 
misplaced man who tries his best to play a 
dead Molly, much to the audiences 
delight. However, the pieces to follow take a 
more serious attitude.
The second piece, called What Grows in 
Huy gens Window, was a world premiere. It 
began with four sheeted figures, which 
moved to a quasi-Oriental theme and 
music. Two exaggerated arms, twice the 
normal length, poked out from under the 
sheets, which had a Mummenschantz-like 
quality of puppetry. The figures were 
serene, calm, guru-like.
Later the figures came out from under the
Human Sculpture by Pilobolus was performed at Heinz Hall.
photo by Herbert Migdoll
sheets and did some faster-paced but dis
tinctly Pilobolian choreography and 
dance, roughly reacung to the tempo of 
the music. In the end, the guru figures 
appear to be giving birth to people, to 
whom they gave their hats, and then with
er and fade.
The last piece, Day Two, was choreo
graphed to the music of new-wave artists 
Brian Eno, Dave Byrne, and the Talking
Heads, with selections from My Life in the 
Bush of Ghosts, Remain in Light, and 
Another Green World. The arrangement 
began fast and violent. People in large and 
small human sculpture performed with tor
mented and abrupt movements. The sharp 
and unsettled aspect of the dance ended 
when the Piloboli erupted from a plastic 
sheet which they had crawled under. From 
continued on page 18
an Halen at hard-rocking best in live performances
ly TOM WOODLEY
jaran Staffmriter
I Van Halen is definitely a group to be seen 
||i concert. All the energy, talent and excite
ment underlying their music on album is 
Magnified several times on stage  many 
times.
Van Halen is the kind of 
group that what you like on 
record, you will love in concert, 
ad singer David Lee Roth was as enjoya|y obnoxious and offensive as ever whileit the beach ith AB party
Surfs up at CMU and just when you 
ught it was time to start digging out the 
gjohns, wool scarves, flannel PJs, and 
mittens its time instead to break out 
>ur shorts, bikinis, beach towels and sunlotion! This Friday, November 12th, the 
Dance Committee will be sponsoring 
9 ' Beach Party-a perfect chance to put
I your dancin shoes and reminisce about 
I'1 summer nights.
II he salty ocean ^ 'vvni be rockin from 9
to 2 a.m. with music by B.E. Taylor
 Wham; and, if your feet get tired you 
H1 relax with the movie Beach Party star| g Hankie and Annette, (who else?^ ^ 
Hj nember, for a Complete with volleyH11 on the beach, incredible tunes and a 
Ia* Wave of fun--come to the ballroom this 
|day and give your O.P.s one last fling 
ore next summer!
guitarist Edward Van Halen carried the 
musical load flawlessly without ever letting 
the tension drop.
The group played a wide selection of 
songs from their repertoire, concentrating 
on their most recent release, Diver Down. 
Disappointingly however, they played only 
one song, Unchained, from their musi
cally fullest and melodic album, Fair 
Warning.
Unquestionably, the highlight of the con
cert was the guitar performance by Eddie. 
One of the more professional and innova
tive guitarists today, Edward seemed to be 
able to play lead and rhythm guitar at the 
same time.
Edward took several extended guitar 
breaks during which he did a live version of 
Eruption, a lightning fast solo played 
with both hands on the guitar neck. Little 
Guitars, another solo song with two mov
ing pieces to the solo was handled with the 
ease and finesse that only Edward can 
project.
The rest of the group was not without 
talent, however. B^lSt Michael Anthony 
provided thumping groundwork for 
Edwards soloing. He was also particularly 
strong in his background vocals in selec
tions like Jamies Crying ancj Where 
Have All ^yc Qood Times Gone, some
times even overpowering lead singer Roth. 
Anthony took a prolonged bass solo early in 
the concert where, with the help of synthesiz
ers and electronics, he turned his bass into a 
laser gun and began shooting into the 
crowd.
Unfortunately, Van Halen is also the 
kind of group whose bad points are not 
hidden in concert. Roth was much better at 
his strutting on stage and telling of rude 
stories than he was as a singer. Overall, the 
concert would have lost some of its life had 
Roth, his acrobatics and strobe routines 
been absent, but he could easily stand to 
work on his voice quality and vocal 
precision.
Drummer Alex Van Halen seemed to play 
with a philosophy of quantity, not quality. 
He kept the band tight and muscled out 
some rocking beats but might have concen
trated a litde more on complementing as 
opposed to powering the music.
Between this combination of Alex and 
Roth, much of the music tended to lose its 
clarity. Songs like Runnin with the Devil 
and Pretty Woman, which thrive on a 
dominant and articulated guitar part, 
tended to lose their kick.
Most Van Halen songs always sound 
good no matter how they are played, but 
Van Halen in their stage environment and 
personality is something that cannot be rep
roduced on album  only live.
Fantasticks good, but weak
By RAMONA WALLS
Tartan Staffunriter
Perhaps it was opening night jitters.
The Fantasticks, a romantic story 
about young love and the ways of the world, 
was presented on November 4, 6, and 7 by 
 CMUS Scotch N Soda. The/
play, known for its uniquentss
 one of the main char^js 
was.a wall -was somewhat of a 
il^xjintment.
I had heard about The Fantasticks from 
two friends before. One loved it and the 
other didnt, which is about how the pro
duction left you feeling  you might have 
loved it, but you didnt.
The play did have its attributes, though. 
The performances were considerably better 
in the second act once the cast seemed to
have gotten over their nerves. Donna King 
played a pretty good mute; perhaps uic rea
son for her characters success was that she 
didnt have to sing.
No doubt the weakest aspect of the play 
had to be the vocals. While the characters 
were generally successful  acting out their 
roles they seemed to have some trouble get
ting the tunes right. Lothair Eaton had a 
fairly good voice, though a litde weak, and 
portrayed El Gallo, the romantic villian, 
very interestingly. Jeff Koechling provided 
some good comic relief as Henry. The 
music, or gypsies, was provided by a few 
good music students.
All in all, the play was a way to spend the 
evening, but I dont know if it was worth the 
cover charge. ................................................

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 9, 1982
Carnegie Mellon Freshmen
Some of our classrooms 
arent classrooms.
An environment that challenges your 
physical and mental skills ^vill be your 
classroom in Army ROTC.
Rappelling, Orienteering, Rifle 
Marksmanship, Survival Techniques, 
Mountaineering, Adventure Training 
Exercises.
Youll find an excellent opportunity 
for leadership development, as well as 
adventure training.
George Gee fulfills his dream with swing band
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Four a.m. in a CMU dorm room: a 
second-year AMS student is faced with a 
major exam later in the morning, and the 
numerous cups of coffee have taken their 
toll. The student sighs heavily, rises from his 
chair, and confidently throws his book out 
the window. It is the end of his academic life 
at CMU.
Im going to pursue the big band dream 
of my life, the disgusted student announces 
to his roommate, whose expression now 
indicates complete astonishment.
Youre crazy, is the reply.
But the fantasy is pursued. In less than a 
month, the annual Spring Carnival will 
begin, but the young man wastes little pre
cious time. With the help of his successful 
WRCT radio show, Make-Believe Bal
lroom, he is able to contact and enthuse 
seventeen CMU students about forming a 
band  one able to put on a real show at 
Carnival  in only several days.
This performance at the 1980 Spring Car
nival was the biggest step for George Gee 
and the Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra. 
Their repertoire included only three 
numbers, but the band still received three 
standing ovations  enough to warrant an 
encore.
Its been a long two years since George 
Gee initiated his first dream, but the 22- 
year-old native New Yorker is reaching his 
goals. The Make-Believe Ballroom Orches
tra has played all over the tri-state area  
from major country clubs to the discotheque 
Heaven, where they served as house band
A Leader in 
Management Education
Specialized Electives 
Management Consulting Field Experience 
International Management Internship 
Domestic Field Experience for 
International Students
For Information Connut:
Graditali Admission .Office 
liabson College, Habson Park 
Wellesley, Massachusetts 02157 
(hi?) 2J5 12(H), ext .*/ 7
for four months. The Orchestra has also 
played Pittsburghs Top of the Triangle as 
well as the Electric Banana.
Still, George Gee recognizes his roots, and 
thats good ole CMU. Not only has he and 
the cats performed at H&SS Spring Flings 
and the Greeks Watermelon Bash, but they 
have scheduled a special concert at Skibo 
Ballroom tonight.
The swing orchestra has the most com
plete repertoire of swing music in the area, 
according to Gee, which includes approxi
mately 120 tunes. Some favorites include 
In the Mood, At Last, and The Near
ness of You.
Besides the greatest bunch of band 
members in the world, George Gee likes to 
credit his behind-the-scenes members. Mary 
E. Wells, for example, is the groups man
ager who takes care of bookings, promotion, 
and accounting. She, as are the rest of the 
non-performing staff, is paid by 
commission.
Gee also credits road manager Robert 
Anschwetz; sound engineer Susan Bidish  
also the mother of the band; and music 
director Keith Jackson, who helps to whip 
the band into shape during rehearsal.
Tonights show has been designed to be a 
re-creation of a Make-Believe Ballroom with 
a forties-like atmosphere. Its sort of a fan
tasy, says Gee. Its a thank you for all the 
love and support the school has given us. 
The show will begin at 7:30; a one dollar 
donation is 
Billy Joel will be appearing at the Civic Arena this Thursday, November 11. Tickets are 
available at the Arena, Kaufmanns, and selected National Record Marts. Joel, whose past 
hits include Piano Man, Say Goodbye to Hollywood, and Still Rock n Roll to Me, 
has just released a new album, Nylon Curtain.
Pilobolus turns a new form of
continued from page 17
thence began a religious Asian theme to 
which the Piloboli created strange religious 
apparitions and ritualistic mechanisms, 
using a few poles as part of their human 
architecture.
Despite my attempt to describe these piec
es, there is something which I cannot 
answer to in Pilobolus. Their nonrepresentationality is important here. Their 
movements suggest things we know, but 
never be concrete about. We are
dance into expression
left to explore the inexplicable possibili
ties they present to us, which is for them to 
give the audience some credibility of 
imagination. The movement stands by itself, 
with a meaning that can only be known and 
sensed without words. The result: a new 
form of human expression that never existed 
before. The potentials of this inspiring 
group of artists stands as proof that the lim
itations of dance, mime, and theater have 
not yet been defined.
30-204 3 units A  W 230-3:20 30-205 3 units A - M 4:30-6:00
B-W 4:30-5:20 B - Th 11:30-1:00
C - By Appointment
An introductory cuUT2? driiined to enable the 
student to recognize and effectively *
survival situation. Instruction includes deter
mining directions; finding and preparing food 
and water, constructing traps, snares and im
provised snettCT8' *** snake and insect 
bites; and overcoming o^^
The first half of the course provides an in* 
troduction to rifle marksmanship techniques 
n,,'ny ^ 99. caliber competition rifle. The sec
ond half ofthe course provi2  introduction 
to the sport of orienteering, which is a cor 
bination of cross-country running and land 
navigation using a topographical map and 
compass.
For answers to questions concerning these or other Military **irae8' the
Military Science Department, MMC B-7, 578-2205.
BE ALL YOU CAN BE
When you pre-register for Spring 
Semester, include one of the no 
military obligation courses listed below 
and add a new dimension of excitement 
and adventure to your campus life.
Students learn the art of rappelling at McConnells Mill State Park.
SURVIVAL TECHNIQUESINDIVIDUAL SKILLS

---------------------------------------------------

November 9, 1982The TartanPage 19
a unid People with Ughtbulb Heads
The Furs: What a difference two years make
By C RHOADES
Tartan Staffwriter
What a difference two years can make!
I was at Heaven last Thursday, amidst a 
growing crowd of trend-conscious voyeurs 
and a truly hideous mixture of Top 40 dance 
music when I started to 
remember The Man with the 
Lightbulb Head. . .
Ted got me into The Talking 
Heads concert. We were sitting halfway 
back on the floor of John Carroll Universi
tys gymnasium (AB Concerts is not alone), 
watching the colorfully costumed Hallo
ween crowd when from clear across the floor 
I caught the sight of this tall, dark man with 
a white lightbulb head. It was 1980 and my
first chance to see The Talking Heads.
What does this have to do with Thurs
days Psychedelic Furs concert? Plenty! Not 
only because while I watched all those bour
geois punks with their meticulously messy 
hairdos, I thought of The Man with the 
Lightbulb Head  (got that image?) but 
because of the unexpected opening group 
for that Halloween concert: The Psychedelic 
Furs.
I had listened to most of the songs from 
their self-tided debut album since WRCT 
had received it earlier that fall semester. I had 
played a few of them on my show: Imita
tion of Christ, Susans Strange1, and, erf 
course, India. But their music seemed to 
me, at first thought, incompatible with The
Talking Heads. Still, I was pleasantly sur
prised when they were announced as the 
opener and I remember my expectations, 
while limited, were running high.
Back at Heaven, with a disappointing 
$2.50 Heineken in hand, I realized that my 
expectations for this concert were running 
even higher now that I had developed a deep 
appreciation for the Furs over the last two 
years. Analyzing these expeciations before 
the concert, I figured that it is their general 
sound that first appeals. But its the words 
that raise their music above the standard 
angry music genre. No wonder hard core 
Furs fans weep with disappointment when 
first hearing the comparatively sparse 
Forever Now. What a live performance
would bring, though, was anyones guess.
At John Carroll, the Furs performance 
had been strained. The crowd had simply 
wanted The Heads and the Furs dark 
sounds couldnt satisfy. I dont remember 
anything outstanding about the show other 
than how it had been my first exposure to a 
totally new style for a live band  a different 
attitude toward playing. But after the con
cert, I decided that I liked their recording 
better.
I couldnt come to such an easy conclu
sion after Thursdays concert at Heaven.
President Gas started the show with 
Butler wrapped in a gray raincoat His stage 
manner was a curious mixture of aloof poscontinued on page 22
Tuesday readings bring students and poets together
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
An attempt to create an informal coffee
house atmosphere to bring the communities 
of Pitt, CMU and the Pittsburgh Poetry 
Exchange has been coordinated by Bruce 
Dobler, Professor of English at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
This attempt is the Tuesday night read
ing series. It is sponsored by the writing 
rogram of the English department at the 
University of Pittsburgh and offers a selec
tion of recent work by area writers. The 
selections include poetic, non-fictional, and 
fictional works of these writers.
Each reading is held in the back room of 
rustines (located on Forbes Avenue) at 8:30
p.m. Bruce Dobler is the host; he introduces 
each speaker. Refreshments are available for 
purchase during the reading and time for 
conversation is allotted.
Open readings are held intermittendy. 
Anyone who plans to attend an open read
ing and would like to read should contact 
Professor Dobler a week prior to the date of 
the reading. According to Dobler, more 
open readings are planned for the spring 
semester in which twelve tentative readings 
have been scheduled.
Three readings have been held this semes
ter. On October 26, Jim Daniels, Visiting 
Lecturer of English at CMU, read poetry at 
Gustines. Four additional readings are
scheduled throughout this semester.
On November 9, three poets from CMU 
will give readings. These poets include Jef
frey Schwartz, Judith Harris and Rosaly 
Roffman. On November 16, Lynne Barrett, 
Associate Professor of English at CMU, will 
give a reading of fiction that will be fol
lowed by an open reading.
On November 23, Mary Tissera, a gradu
ate student at Pitt, will give a poetry reading 
and Dennis Bartel, a graduate student at the 
same university, will read fiction. Lasdy, 
two students in the Master erf Fine Arts pro
gram at Pitt, Dan Lowe and Dave Martin, 
will read fiction at Gustines on November 
30.
No salvage for "Monsignor"
'Fast Times" slow movie
ly SRIKANTH RAJAN
Tartan Staffwriter 
What happens at Ridgemont High 
100I? Certainly not fast times. Universal 
)ictures Fast Times at Ridgemont High is 
lowhere near what the title implies; rather, 
| it is a feeble attempt to bring to 
the screen the Animal House
aura.
The movie traces the life of 
lifomia high school students in their 
nior year. Hey, wow! This should be a 
t movie right5 Wrong. The most serious 
efect is that the actors do very litde acting 
t all. You get the impression that theyd 
ther be surfing, sleeping or whatever, than 
on the set making the picture.
All the segues and actions are predictable, 
th an unusually large number of stock 
aracters: Ray Walston (remember him?)
portrays the strict history teacher whose only 
job is to prevent students from having fun, 
and since I cant (fortunately) remember the 
other names, theres the straight guy, the 
Anne-Murray 15-year-old and her friends, 
the druggie, and . ., well, need I say more?
What about the humor? What humor?! 
The movie is replete with platitudes and BS. 
There was also an element of discontinuity 
between some scenes, keeping me guessing 
how that happened while I got some pop
corn. Anything miraculous or revealing 
must have happened in this five minute 
interval.
So if you want to save $4 for the Billy Joel 
concert at the Civic, or order Dominos 
tonight or whatever it is that CMUers do 
after a massive physics test or when theres 
nothing else to do . . .
By DEMILLE RECKER and BERK
LEY SCHATZ
Tartan Staffwriters
DeMille: Oh my God.
Berkley: Can you believe this?
DeMille: This movie would have been 
good if everyone had been played by 
penguins.
Berkley: Whats black and 
white and black and white and 
\ black and white?
! - 3MP DeMille: I dont know.
Berkley: A nun rolling downhill.
DeMille: But seriously. We have to give 
them what theyre expecting ... a profes
sional review.
Berkley: Why?
DeMille: We have a commitment. 
Besides, we owe it to them to make it clear 
that they shouldnt go within twenty feet of 
a theater showing Monsignor, unless they 
want to hear John Williams well-done-butunfortunately-placed score.
Berkley: This movie is as cohesive as a fart 
in a windstorm.
DeMille: Stow it ... be real. Nobodyll 
believe that . . . its worse. Makes less sense 
and isnt quite as fun as putting your litde 
finger in a blender set on liquify.
Berkley: That, too. Whats black and 
white and black and white and black and 
white?
DeMille: Cut it out. . . Okay. What?
Berkley: A penguin rolling downhill.
DeMille: Bag your face.
Berkley: Cut the Tab talk. Well, we could 
mention any number of things. First, theres 
the noticeably bad make-up and all those 
red robes running around the Vatican.
DeMille: Fine. Lets continue by mention
ing the violendy ugly sets and the straightfrom-high-school acting.
Berkley: How about the fact that Gene
vieve Bujold, the romantic interest, the 
orgasmic nun, is supposed to be about 
twenty-four and looks forty . . . she has the 
skin of a day-old danish.
DeMille: Daccord. We could move into a 
Sani-Flush analysis of this films screenplay. 
Abraham Polonsky and Wendell Mayes 
should be forced to take a vow erf silence. 
Their plot is completely unreal. The mix of 
politics, church, sex and scandal, although 
possible in the Catholic Church, is pres
ented with as much realism as an S 8c M 
scene starring Peter Pan.
Berkley: Dont forget the total lack of 
continued on page 20
MENS VOLLEYBALL CLUB TRYOUTS
Tuesday 4 p.m.
November 9 
Womens Gym
Open to anyone interested in competing on a Varsity or J.V. level. If interested and cannot attend, call Mike Matthews 682-9580.CHU VBC Sponsored by Student Senate
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.

---------------------------------------------------

, Pg 20Th Tww-Nwiwlwr 9.1982
Cabaret gives students a chance to perform
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
"Its a place where people can come to 
perform and not worry about how talented 
they are  just so they areable to enjoy their 
own performance. Stacy Alabardo, em-cee 
of CMUs Cabaret, had this to say when 
asked to explain what the Cabaret was 
designed to accomplish.
Two cabarets have been held this semes
ter, the first of which was on October 23. 
Four additional cabarets are to be held 
throughout the remainder of the fall semes
ter, the last being scheduled for December 4. 
Each cabaret begins at 9 p.m. and is held in 
the Morewood Gardens Recreational 
Room. Refreshments are supplied and the 
admission is free.
Alabardo emphasized that one can leave 
or enter the Cabaret at any time during the 
show. She stated, 'There is an informal 
atmosphere where people come together 
and socialize. Participation or conversation 
is welcome as long as it is in good taste.
Any CMU student can become involved 
in the Cabaret, as a performer or writer. 
Performances are limited to approximately
four songs or musical selections and "fifteen 
minute routines  dramatic or comical.
Tony Martin, Director of Housing, origi
nated the idea for the Cabaret last year. 
Rhonda Malone, area coordinator, is 
involved in the enlistment of performers.
Any interested student should contact the 
housing office in Morewood Gardens.
In addition, Stacy Alabardo can be con
tacted with any suggestions or comments 
concerning the Cabaret. Stacy considers her
self to be a controlling force in the program
m r* 4*.
and likes to vary types of performances.
A final comment of Alabardo was, A lot 
of people on this campus dont smile or talk 
to oth^Sfudents. The CaBareTgives these 
students a chance to meet people by opening 
up in an informal atmosphere.Renowned poet Wallace gives reading
(The following is the original, correct 
article, which, through no fault of the 
writer, was printed last week in improper 
form.
-Ent. Ed.)
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Siaffwriter
Last Wednesday, Robert Wallace gave a 
poetry reading in Baker Hal) 231 at 8.-00 
p.m. At this reading, Wallace read selections 
from his three previously published books 
and also from two books Wallace expects to 
have published in the future.
Gerald Costanzo, professor of English, 
introduced Wallace as a craftsman who, 
indeed, has something to say to us. Cos
tanzo, who has published Wallaces works, 
asked Wallace to give this reading at CMU.
He began writing poetry in his grade 
school years and was first published in his 
second year of schooling at Cambridge. 
Poets that had the greatest influence on Wal
lace included Wilbur, Moore and Nemerov.
When asked about his views on modem 
poetry, Wallace replied, Poems today are
Sinful com
too loose and slack. I wish they had more 
form. About his own preference in poetry, 
he stated, Poems with humor seem to last 
longer for me than serious ones.
Other books that Wallace has had pub
lished include two childrens books: Critter 
continued on page 21
Prielt sins, critics gag
continued from page 19
background which might have given this 
flick some solidity. Why the hell is Chris 
Reeves character a priest? Father Flaherty 
my arse.
DeMille: True. After Reeves ordination, 
the first thing we see him do is gun down
Your
MfSrSri

doesn't
surprise 
us...
At TRW it's what we're all about.
We've created an environment 
encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual 
professional goals.
So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach 
to your technical growth. An 
approach that includes . . .
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking.
Co-workers who value the free 
interchange of ideas.
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement.
A broad spectrum of challenging 
projects to choose from 
Projects ranging from large data 
base software systems, 
communications spacecraft and 
alternative energy sources, to 
scientific satellites, high energy 
lasers and microelectronics.
And you'll appreciate the 
opportunity to see these 
projects to completion.
In the long run we think 
you'll find that TRW offers 
an environment that brings out 
the uniqueness in you.
TRW will be on campus 11/18, 19
hiring graduates in most Engi
neering and Scientific disciplines 
at all degree levels.
See your Placement Office for 
more information.
Collega Relations
TRW Electronics and Defense
Bldg. R5/B196, Dept CM
One Space Park
Redondo Beach, CA 90278
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required
some Germans. This is a sin. The second 
thing we see him do is start playing politics 
and blade market This is a sin. We have no 
concept of Reeve as a man erf the cloth in any 
sense.
Berkley: Yeah. And then he screws wouldbe nun Bujold. BIG sin.
DeMille: Not as big a sin as Christopher 
Reeves acting.
Berkley: No depth, no consistency, no 
credibility. All this beefchunks got is a great 
pair of baby blues.
DeMille: Contacts, Berkley, contacts. Any
way, since we dont have any concept of 
Reeve as a priest to begin with, it doesnt 
make any difference that in the end he tries 
to make up for what hes done.
Berkley: Mea culpa, mea culpa, mea max
ima culpa.
DeMille: It's not your fault
Berkley: I know, but Im Catholic. I cant 
believe we spent money on this. You know 
the quote  How dare we rich Christians 
in an age erf hunger?
DeMille: We should have sent the bucks 
to missions in Africa. Hey  dont we need 
some more intelligent criticism?
Berkley: Why waste the space? I think 
they already got the point
DeMille: Rating: one Renaissance cru
cifix in new wave colors.
Berkley: Well get letters...
DeMille: Okay, FINE. Hows this:
(illustration by
Dinty Moore)
Bodywear
Legwear
Footwear
Also, we design 
and make 
costumes
Pittsburghs Most 
Complete Line of
THEATRICAL and 
DANCE SUPPLIES
jU Q. ttalpk }
3007 Jenkins Arcade 
Downtown Pittsburgh
Phone 391-1422
0091 d (O*)

---------------------------------------------------

fabric work key to Loftus' artistry
November 9,1982The Tartan Pege 21
photo by Diane Thodos
By DIANE THODOS
Tartan Art Director
A showing of fabric art by ex-CMU stu
dent Brigid Loftus hung in the Squirrel Hill 
Library during the month of October. The 
pieces were made according to the method 
| of material applique called San\ Bias, practiced on the San-Blas 
Islands in the Caribbean.
The practitioners of the SanBlas method are mostly albino men. 
Because of their hereditary skin condition 
they are not allowed to work in the fields, 
because the sun would kill them. They 
were given to do womens work, becoming 
more than anyone else, experts in the SanBlas technique.
The traditional San-Blas sewing process 
is fabric applique, an additive process where 
fabric shapes are sewn onto a material base. 
Loftus process is subtractive; she starts with 
layers of fabric which are already sewn
Pitiful pain brings movie to a dose
By KID KRAMER and 
| THE GREAT CANTINI
The movie is The Missionary. The 
ie is an enormous English country home 
Ion a sprawling estate. The butler escorts a 
visitor to see his mistress, ceremoniously 
leading him through a maze of 
long hallways and elaborate 
drawing rooms, and finally 
arrives at his destination.
"H^ opens the door and they enter a broom 
closet. he mumbles, "Thais not it 
And they corttij^ue their quest for the lady of 
the house. '"s.
Like the hapless butter* Michael Palins 
Screenplay wanders confusedly.^rom sub
plot to subplot, constandy fetchingup at 
dead aids. ^
For an R rating, the sight gags were fairly 
clean and were handled well. Most erf the 
jokes were double entendres (a bishop ask
ing a well-endowed maid for two of her best 
... cups of tea, that is) but overall we felt that 
the film did not deserve an R rating. In fact it 
is a shame that the ad campaign trumpets 
what is actually a subde sexual theme in the 
film.
The missionary erf the tide is G W. Fortescue (Palin), who is charged with of the 
task of establishing a Mission for Fallen 
Women in London at the turn of the 
century.
While erecting this mission, Fortescue 
inadvertently beds a number of women, 
including a wealthy patroness (Maggie 
Smith) and assorted ladies of the evening. 
Dont get us wrong, however, there are" ~^.. This film is a big change for Michael
exception of Maggie Smith, who is merely 
adequate, and some actor who sounds as 
Scottish as Aldo Celia, the cast was uni
formly entertaining.
The films understated comedy was 
almost upstaged by director Richard Loncraines tremendous ability to set up a mem
orable shot. He can convey the grittiness erf a 
London street or the misty beauty of the 
Scottish highlands equally well.
All erf the great photography in the world 
could not save this plot as it wanders, like 
the befuddled buder, never finding the right 
room.
At first, the plot seems to be a story erf a 
continued on pege 22
together, and cuts away sections of layers.
Many of the pieces on display in the 
library showing were warped. This was due to 
the sort of fabric used and the tension in the 
stitching. According to Loftus, I never tried 
to control the warping; it brings out the 
essence of each material.
However, warping caused problems with 
the pieces presentation. "To put the piece 
on the ground or on a couch or on part of a 
dress would have been one way to end it but 
to put them on a wall I had to keep the 
essence of what they are, buckled and not 
square, says Loftus. The answer lay in the 
framing process. The artist did not view the 
frame as separate from the work, but inte
grated with the piece. Most of the fabric 
pieces were loosely attached to a frame 
which allowed the buckled, uneven quali
ties in the fabric to show.
The design of the pieces usually began 
with a simple motif, like a grid. The artist 
then somehow distorted the design, throwing 
it off from being a simple repetition.
Loftus was a metalcrafts student at CMU 
from 1975 to 1977. However, in her fresh
man year she began to take a serious interest 
in drawing and design. Says Loftus about 
her teachers at CMU, Bill Libby was a 
wonderful influence on my life for color, 
as Doug Wilson was a wonderful influ
ence on my life few design  they are two of 
my men tews. She now visits CMU on occa
sion to use the shop and visit friends and 
teachers.
One of her pieces was commissioned by a 
man who hired her to do some interior 
design work. Also, she has sold a couple of 
her pieces to friends. Loftus comments that 
while Pittsburgh is not a great place to sell 
her work, people will come and look, and 
thats really nice.
enough funny scenes in The Missionary 
jto compensate for the confused plot. Like 
the constandy repeated buder scene, most of 
the gags are drawn out a typical English 
technique, but the kick at the end was worth 
waiting for.
Palm;ije wrote, co-produced, and starred in 
the film, witli no apparent help from his 
Monty Python buddies.
As an actor, Palins strength is the play of 
oppressions on his face; nobody can look 
confused as well as Michael Palin. With thew
contini.allace reads selections
sntinued from page 20
and Charlie Joins the Circus. Finally, he 
wrote a textbook entided Writing Poems 
which is used in the Survey of Genres: Poecourse at CMU.
Wallace began by reading one excerpt 
Jfrom Views from a Ferris Wheel which was 
Published in 1965 and the tide poem from 
^Ungainly Things, published in 1968.
lirdly, Wallace read a poem entided 
|Myth, Commerce, and Coffee on United 
flight #622 from Cleveland to Norfolk 
rom his book Swimmer in the Rain. At this 
5int, he read many selections from a book 
at is expected to be published in the fall of 
|1983, Girlfriends and Wives.
These poems are, like the majority of 
Wallaces poetry, based on his own personal 
experiences. They included poems such as 
f Linda Lou, a poem about a girl he knew
in the first grade and Anne, a poem about 
one of his wives.
Wallace ended his reading with works 
that he plans to publish in book form after 
the publication of Girlfriends and Wives. 
These works included Kick the Can, a 
poem about a childhood game that Wallace 
used to play and Hurricane, a poem that 
relays the story of a man witnessing the 
destruction of a hurricane.
Wallace was bom in Missouri, and 
through a scholarship, attended Harvard 
University, from where he received his 
continued to page 28
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medial clinic oIferinR 
' abortion counseling  free pregnancy tests 
* personal counseling * birth control services 
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 1S213
(412) 687-TEST
H*'
Mrdxjl (ntn (Ml luifcfcng Prnlhouw RigtM t*k Hoorl 21 North WMIifM Mr** Pimburgh PA ISM
<V
GYN
CHECK-UPS
r ABORTION 
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELINGWomens Health Services
625 STANWDC ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 562-1900
fc

I
GOES ON
BETWEEN
THE
LINES
The Tartan staff meets every
Monday at 8 PM
in Skibo Room 13

---------------------------------------------------

fl
Page 22The TartanNovember 9, 1982
Gallery artists show kaleidoscope of designs
By SARAH G. RATCHYE
Special for the Tartan
The public will get a chance to see the 
world through a designers eye this week at 
Forbes Gallery. The work exhibited by six 
graphic designers  Anita Driscoll, Janet 
Eberle, Laurie Mizrahi, Amy Morton, 
Arthur Silber, and Karen Thomas  
emphasizes each individuals decisions and 
unique approaches to various design prob
lems. Posters, publications, logo designs, 
and photography are among the many 
works currently on exhibit.
Through primarily two-dimensional vis
ual means, graphic designers strive for clear, 
ordered and stimulating communication. A 
designer is concerned about the way things 
look and often shows the viewer of their 
work a new way of seeing familiar objects, 
events or places. For example, Arthur 
Silbers book, Textures, is a series of plates, 
printed with wooden and metal type on a 
letter press. With color, varied ink applica
tion and different alignments, Silber trans
forms letters and numbers into the frenzied 
participants at an abstract Hatters Tea.
Amy Morton, Laurie Mizrahi and Janet 
Eberle are showing their month-pages of a
class-designed academic calendar. Each 
designer in the class was responsible for one 
month. Within the limits of an imagery 
involving design tools, the use of only black 
and white and the inclusion of the letters 
CMU; each of the three pages is surprisingly 
different. It is exciting to see the creative 
freedom each person formed out of the lim
its, and the pleasing unity the limits 
imposed on the calendar.
Designers photography is also on 
exhibit. Amy Mortons photography book 
contains no text, and instead causes the 
viewer to read the cameras relationship 
with its subject, a woman seated in an other
wise empty dance studio. Through the var
ious close-up and angled views, we see the 
woman as a dark, organic form set against 
the geometry of the floor and the ballet bar. 
In the final picture, the viewer makes con
tact with the woman when she abrupdy 
turns her face to the camera. The rooms of 
Bona vita Mansion are the setting for Karen 
Thomas eerie dream-like photographs. As 
in Mortons book, the viewer is startled into 
reality in the final picture when the ghostly, 
Mansion guide confronts the camera.
Collaboration, whether it is among 
designers or between designers and other 
professionals, is an important means of put
ting design into the environment. Several of 
the posters seen on campus have been the 
result of collaboration between the designers 
represented in this show. Morton and Dris
coll designed this and last years posters for 
the Campus Convocation concerning the 
threat of nuclear war. Thomas and Morton 
designed last years carnival poster "The
Lure of the Sea. Individually designed pos
ters are also on exhibit.
Janet Eberle extends her design into the 
realm of movement, with animation. The 
viewer can watch her video presentation and 
see separate cells used to make the video 
tape. Eberle is showing work in both black 
and white, and color.
The Forbes Gallery show will extend 
through Saturday.
Film suffers painful ending
continued from page 21
naive holy man too pure to understand the 
evil ways of the city. It seems we will witness 
the triumph of good over evil. No, thats not 
it. Palin has not found the right door.
In a quick jump, Fortescue unwittingly 
falls into bed with his fallen women. Now 
we seem to have a story of a corrupted man 
using his cloth for a bed sheet. No, thats not 
it.
Then his patroness, whom he unaccoun
tably loves, discovers just how involved he
The Furs lacked their best at dub Heaven
continued from page 19
turing and callous showiness. He would sit 
and withdraw from the crowd then return to 
the stagefront to sway and shake over his 
monitors.
Guitarist John Ashton seemed hidden 
backstage. His sound wasnt as prominent 
as I would have liked. In fact, the entire 
shows sound mix was disappointing. Not 
only was Ashtons guitar strangely absent, 
but other instruments would fade out and
overpower at random. The augmenting sax
ophonist and cellist suffered in the mix. 
Feedback was too much of a problem for the 
show and especially marred what would 
have been a surprisingly good rendition of 
No Easy Street.
The bands performance teased. It felt like 
they had just gone through a 40-minute 
sound check. Songs like Only You and I, 
Into Liek a Train, Danger and No 
Easy Street promised a performance of new
songs and old ones interpreted in a new way. 
But others flady disappoitned: Yes I Do 
and Pretty in Pink were the most unfulfilling. Usually a song would promise more 
than it would deliver. Susans Strange, for 
instance, could have been a great change of 
pace for the concert, but the new sax part 
seemed too out of place.
It just seemed that The Furs didnt know 
where to go-back to the angry past or into a 
continued on page 28
really is with his fallen women. Now are we 
watching a drippy-sap plot where love con
quers all suspicions and spats; the lovers ' 
united in spite of themselves? No, thats not 
it.
Then, Palin, in a last-gasp effort to juice 
up the plot, trots out his white stallion and 
tries to gallop into an adventurous finish. 
Are we going to see a furious finish a la 
Raiders of the Lost Ark? No, thats not it.
Finally, Palin tires of juggling these var
ious plots, drops them all, and walks away. 
The ending crumbles under the weight of 
confusion, just as the mission for falli 
women crumbles under the wrecking ball. 
Everything is perfect  too perfect. The 
ending is painfully pat. The guy gets the 
girl, the other girl gets another guy, another 
guy gets another guy, and the missionarys 
worthy cause is freed from the hypocrisy of 
the church.
In The Missionary, Palin the comedian | 
is as sharp as in his Monty Python days, but 
Palin the scriptwriter should, as the butler 1 
finally exclaims, go bade to the beginning ] 
and start over.,  i
SOLUTIONS TO THE
NUCLEAR
ARMS
RACE
Keynote Speaker
Music & Dance 
"Music for an Apocalypse* 
(multi-media) by SOFEX 
'Synergy IV : Enola Gay* 
by Pittsburgh Dance Alloy 
Friday, November 12thf 6:30pm CMU Hunt Library Multi-purpose Room
William Kincade 
Director of the Arms Control Association, 
Washington, DC 
"Future Directions for Arms Control* 
Thursday, November 11th, 8pm 
Graduate School of Public Health Auditorium, 
5th Avenue & DeSoto, Oakland
University of Pittsburgh 
Thursday, November 11th 
10am to 5pm 
Information Desk in Forbes Quadrangle
Workshops & Films
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Friday, November 12th 
9:30am to 5pm 
Information Desk in Skibo
Sponsored by Pitt and CMU Arms Race Study Groups

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Steve Winawer
John Wessels and Mike Short, middle, finished one, two to lead the cross country team to the PAC championship title,
Harriers take PAC title; on to regionals
Tartans beaten badly by Blue Streaks
By DOUG REINSTEIN
Tartan Staffumier
The CMU Tartans finished their season 
on a sour note by losing the season finale at 
the hands of the John Carrol Blue Streaks. 
Despite a valiant second half comeback, the 
Tartans came up on the short end erf a 20-14 
score. They finished with an overall record 
of 6-3 and 4-3 in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference.
CMU fell behind early in the game as the 
Blue Streaks rolled up 17 points in the first 
quarter. Brad Cantwell streaked 47 yards 
down the sideline on die second play from 
scrimmage. This led to the first of two Mark 
Schroeder field goals. He connected chi a 25 
yarder that gave John Carrol an early 3-0 
lead.
CMUs next possession turned out to be a 
costly one. After starting from their own 
twenty, they were unable to get a first down. 
On fourth down, a Mike OShip punt was 
blocked by linebacker Nick DAngelo and 
recovered in the end zone for a touchdown. 
CMU trailed 10-0 and only 3:49 had elapsed 
in the first quarter.
On the Tartans next possession, a Bill 
Kiselick pass was intercepted by Blue Streak 
free safety John Verhotz. This was the first of
three that he would pick off by games end. A 
penalty on the runback put John Carroll on 
the Tartan 41. After an illegal procedure 
penalty, quarterback Dan Schovowski hit 
wide receiver Tom Catanzarite for a 25 yard 
completion down to the CMU 18. Three 
plays later, PAC leading rusher Brad Cant
well ran 5 yards for John Carrolls second 
touchdown. Following the extra point, the 
Blue Streaks led 17-0 with only half of the 
first quarter gone.
The Tartans mounted a drive of their 
own mid-way through the first quarter. 
Kiselick connected three times, twice to wide 
receiver Randy DaCanal and once to Dan 
Fry. This, combined with the running of 
Jim Morrison and Joe Vasalani, the Tartans 
moved from their own 20 down to the John 
Carroll 15. The drive halted there and a field 
goal attempt by Rob Fleischman was 
blocked by the John Carroll defense.
Following a John Carroll punt, Dave Zito 
replaced Bill Kiselick as the Tartan quarter
back. After running for a first down, Zito 
connected with tight end Harley Carroll. 
This play was good for 52 yards. However, 
CMU lost the ball on downs as a fourth 
down attempt fell incomplete.
Defensive back Mark Compo intercepted
a pass that set up John Carrolls next score. 
Schodowski hooked up with Catanzarite for 
a 13 yard gain to theTartan eight Schroeder 
nailed a 25 yard field goal and CMU trailed 
20-0.
The Tartans turned it around in the 
second half. On the first possession, Kiselick 
engineered a 70 yard TD scoring drive. It 
was highlighted by four passes that led to 
first downs. They were 13 yards to DaCanal, 
22 yards to Fry, and 11 and 12 yard passes to 
Brad Huwar in the flat Joe Vasalani
punched it in from 2 yards out with 5:50 
remaining in the third quarter.
After trading punts, the third quarter 
ended with the Tartans trailing 20-7. At the 
start erf the fourth quarter, CMU marched to 
the John Carroll six yard line. Again, CMU 
turned it over on downs.
The Tartans final surge came late in the
fourth quarter when Fran Diegelman 
blocked a John Verhotz punt and recovered 
it for a touchdown. CMU trimmed the lead 
to 20-14. The ensuring scramble on the 
onside kick eventually showed that John 
Carroll had recovered. Thus, CMUs last 
effort fell short.
Hockey defrosts Allegheny
By STEVE WINAWER
Tartan Staffwriter 
The game started and ended the same 
way, in the fog.
The big difference between these two 
times was that at the beginning, the score 
was 0-0, and at the end it was 7-1 CMU.
In the span of about 20 minutes of playln time CMU scored seven goals while only 
allowing one. The first goal came at 1:50 of 
the first period as Danny Heyse took a pass 
from Eric Spray and backhanded the puck 
over the fallen Allegheny goaltender.
Then at about the halfway point, the 
game was stopped because the fog caused by 
the unseasonal temperatures was so bad, vis
ibility was about eight feet. After about two 
minutes, the fog lifted and play resumed.
That didnt stop CMU as Heyse scored 
again on a pass from Spray. At 6:35 of the 
Penod, Bill Heyse and Andy Andrejko set 
UP defenseman Craig Janek for a goal
which careened off the goalie and into thenet.
CMU s next two goals came within 35 
fronds of each other as Eric Spray and Rob
Katz both beat the goaltender from the right 
side at short range. Nine seconds later Kaleb 
Corkery took a pass from Andrejko to beat 
the now shell-shocked goalie cleanly.
Allegheny averted a shut out as the CMU 
goalie let up the Gators only goal on a 
break-in play.
By the start of the second period the fog 
had dissipated and Allegheny came out a 
little more determined. However, CMU 
widened their lead at 10:36 when Mike 
Panno scored with Rob Katz and Chris 
Byrne getting the assists. The fog then 
started up again and the referees were forced 
to call the game.
Afterwards, coach Seth Gutnam said, "It 
was good to win but if the team has to face a 
tough game in their next match, this twenty 
minute session will not have helped.
The hockey team looks good and many 
of the players are optimistic about the 
upcoming season. Captain Rick Swede 
Samuelsen and freshman Chris Byrne both 
played fine hockey as did the entire defense 
led by Craig Janek.
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffivritrr
The season is over but the CMU cross 
country team is still doing what it does best
 winning. On Saturday, November 6, 
CMU began its post season competition by 
winning the PAC championship meet at 
Highland Golf Course in Cleveland.
The CMU cross country team ended its 
season on October 23 at a triangular meet 
against Hiram College and Youngstown 
State University. The Tartans won the meet 
easily by shutting out both teams. The team 
ended its season with a 13-0 dual meet record 
and two second places and a third place in 
big invitationals. After a two week break 
without a meet, the Tartans began post sea
son competition last Saturday by cruising to 
an easy victory in the PAC championship 
meet. The CMU runners took the top three 
places, and five out of the top six places to 
secure their best conference meet victory to 
date. The Tartans also won conference titles 
in 1978, 1980, and 1981.
Finishing positions for CMU woe as fol
lows: 1st place-- John Wessels (time: 24:09), 
2nd place -- Mike Short (24:37), 3rd place  
Kevin Brewer (24:42), 5th place - Chris 
Shafer (24:48), 6th place -- John McGowan 
(24:55), 12th place - Mark Merlie (25:12), 
and 13th place - Eric Lee (25:14).
The Tartans ran together throughout the 
entire race, finishing close together. CMUs 
top five finished within 46 seconds erf each 
other, and the entire team crossed the line 
within 1 minute and 5 seconds. These are 
CMUs best splits erf the year. Also, the Tar
tans set a new PAC record for scoring. CMu 
scored 17 points in this years meet, beating 
its own mark of 19 from the 1980 race. In 
addition, John Wessels winning time of 
24:09 is the best time run by a Tartan this 
year, and, according to Coach Gary Meckley, its as good as any hes seen in the 
country.
Coach Meckley was very pleased with his 
teams performance, saying that everybody 
ran an outstanding race. However, the. team 
is entering the toughest part of the year, and 
has three tough races to run in three straight 
weeks. The Tartans are off to a good start, 
having won the first meet, but the next two 
will be the real challengers. Coach Meckley, 
however, sees this years team as better than 
last years, and he thinks that this team can 
do well as long as the runners remain 
healthy.
The hockey team began the season on the right skate by beating Allegheny 7-1
equoiO YbutS 90Bfl smiA UMO bne ttiS yd beioenoqS /

---------------------------------------------------

Hosted by West Coast Comedian 
A. WHITNEY BROWN
THIS SA TURD A Y 
NOV. 13 
8 PM 
SKIBO BALLROOM
sponsored by AB Lectures and AB Coffeehouse Funded by Activities Fee
IN
1st Annual AB 
AIRBAND CONTEST

---------------------------------------------------

Il-league intramural football ballots out
Ballots for selecting All-School team and 
VP for the majors division of IM football 
re available in the IM office. Give all ballots 
o Jon Bruno when they are filled out. He 
ives at the Beta house, so drop them off 
here if you cant get in touch with him.
Water polo playoffs start this week. Check 
he IM bulletin board for playoff schedules 
>r call commissioner Hal Powell at 578- 
5732. PJayoffs also begin for team volleyball 
:>n November 11. Also check the bulletin 
board for these schedules.
The second round of table tennis games 
should be played by this week. Report all[
cores to the IM office. Racquetball scores 
hould also be reported to the IM office after 
zompletion.
Important! Mr. Birdy still needs a com-I
nissioner for backgammon. If anyone is 
nterested, see him at the IM office or call 
78-2211.
C'C
Soccer
MAJOR LEAGUE
TALYWINLOSS
7irst Natl Bank12
KS A11
Stars20
i>achs All Stars11
^ka A11
rSlA Kickbacks12
GERMANYWINLOSS
>AE A11
iPP21
?hi Kap A15
HEFeat02
Sayem-Mellon10
jargoyles20
CU11
3CD Morewood 
Seniors Plus 
5th Floor A 
5th Floor B 
KKG
WIN
1
02
0
1
MINOR LEAGUE
POLAND
Soccer
Flailing Gyros
PLP
ZBT
Pika C
ZOO
FRANCE
KOZO
3rd Fir. Schlag 
No Names 
T&A
GWANGI 
SAE B
ENGLAND
ATO 
Strikers 
KS B
Little Rascals
Booters
IVCF
WIN
1
0
0
1
12
WIN2
m
m
m
o
Ta
WIN
3
3
02
0
0
LOSS
1
1
02
0
LOSS
1
2
1
0
1
0
LOSS
1
Ta
VA
2
VA
LOSS
0
12
02
BRAZIL WIN LOSS
DU 0 2
Schlag 69ers 3 0
Molson Men 1 2
TX B 11
TX A 2 V 0
Doherty Deadheads 0 0
Team volleyball
MAJOR LEAGUE 
G WIN
Theta Xi A 0
USTALAR 4
Coachs All Stars 0
H WIN
Theta Xi B 2
KILLIU 2
GSIA 2
Bossmen II 0
Whankers 1
Phi Kap A 0J ' WIN
DU I 1
Networkers 3
SUPAPUPS 0
Spikes City 1
Thump Mores 2
Pi Lamba Phi 1
LOSS2
02
LOSS
0
0
0
3
1
1
LOSS
1
1
22
1
1CMU takes 2nd in Olympics
By CLARKE V. SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
The first Army ROTC Cadet Olympics 
were held last Sunday, October 31. Members 
of Army ROTC units from CMU, Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and Duquesne took part 
in such track and field events as the 100-yard 
dash, two-mile relay, long jump, pushups, 
and 300-yard shutde run.
The top two finishers from each team
were scored and CMU did particularly well 
in the mens 440 dash and the womens onemile run, taking both first and second in 
each event. In the half-mile coed relay 
CMUs team took first, leaving Pitt second 
and Duquesne third.
One star in the days events was CMUs 
Karen Dann, a junior in design, who took 
first place in the womens one-mile run.
continuad on page 28
K WIN
Bossmen I 0
The Studs 1
KS A 4
Seven 8c Seven 2
SAE 0
L WIN
Army ROTC 0
KS B 1
ZBT A 2
Busters 4
Harrys Tavern 4
MINOR LEAGUE 
M WIN
DU II 2
Nads 3
Bossmen III 4
Armadillos 1
PLP B 0
PLP C _ 3
WOMENS LEAGUE
W
DG
Spiked Punch 
Harrys Tavern 
No Name
WIN2
4
4
0
Water polo
TEAMS
Comp Sri 
PKT 
PLP 
SAE
Theta Xi
ZBT
TEAMS
Tylenol Killers
M8cMs
TX
Our Gang 
Pi Lam
WIN
7
72
6
12
WIN22
0
0
1
LOSS
3 
1 
0 
1
2
LOSS
4 
3
3 
0 
1
LOSS
22
0
4 
3 2
LOSS2
12
5
LOSS
12
6
1
8
7
LOSS
1
0
1
2
1
COLlfGiCONCERTurA
CONCERT SERIES
THIS WEHifT~|
THIS WEEK:TVLKINGHEVDSLORDS OF THE NEW CHURCT-F
r ani
_____vWUtMY-MWUIT
Editop AMO
kltoY-MDMJJTELMOffiOM ( HR
Mwi(n(f(waff aii _____yum on ai-mi
JUNIOR
SMALL
MEDIUM
LARGE
X-LARGE
LARGE SELECTION OF EXTRAS 
PEPPERONI - MUSHROOMS - SAUSAGE - 
GREEN PEPPERS  ONIONS  ANCHOVIES 
BLACK OLIVES - EXTRA CHEESE - 
HOT PEPPER RINGS
ITALIAN 
HOT SAUSAGE 
MEAT BALL 
CAPICOLLO 
STEAK
MUSHROOM STEAK 
HAM/CHEESE 
ROAST BEEF 
SALAMI
QUARTER POUNDER
Visit Our Bar & Dining Lounge
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
]|
11111 Free Delivery
Business HoursCO
V> V? Sundays 2:00 P.M. -- 2:00 AM K
v-O Mon  Tues  Wed 10:00 A M' " 2 00 A M ? tf Thurs - Fri - Sat 10:00 AM - 3 00 A M
*1
Hoagies
VIZZA $
FORBES AVENUE 
OAKLAND
Next to Arbys 
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPUS MAIL POLICY
Items sent through campus mail do not require postage.
Moretvood and Mudge mailroom Hill Dorms and Doherty
Box number is not room number. There is usually more than one person to a box.
residents nameresidents name
room numberbox number
mailroomDonner Hall mailroom
All box and room numbers are listed in the C-Book.
Fraternities Sororities
residents name 
fraternity name
address to Student Activities in Skibo
residents name 
sorority name 
. DonnaHall mailroom
Non-Campus Mail
At this point in time, campus mail does not provide service to University Off-Campus Housing or Roselawn. US. Mail will deliver to these areas at the 
following addresses, postage required.
Hampshire Hall
7
Tudor HallShady side Apts.Chatham College
residents name 
box number
4730 Centre Ave., 15132
residents name
room number
4825 Centre Ave., 15232
residents name
room number
5115 Centre Ave., 15232
residents name 
box number 
Woodland Rd., 15232
Louisa rt Apts.Carol Apts.Shirley Apts.Roselawn
residents name 
room number 
3510 Louisa St., 15213
residents name
room number
4909 Centre Ave., 15232
residents name 
room number
133 N. Dithridge St., 15213
residents name 
house number 
Roselawn Terrace, 15232
Faculty and taff
Name and department only; room number is irrelevant. Departments should notify the Post Office about visiting faculty and staff 
and those working in the department who are not on the payroll list.
Large quantity campus mailings
Break down by mailroom area: Morewood, Mudge, Dormer, and departments. Please do not mail in bulk by alphabetical order. If mail 
is to be sent to everyone on campus, it is not necessary to address it at all.
Moretvood and Donner Mailroom Hours:
Monday - Friday 9:30 - 1:30
3:30 - 7:30
Saturday 9:30 - 3:30
It is possible that the mailroom may be closed for several 
minutes during these times.
Baker Hall Post Office Hours:
Post Office Hours:
Monday - Friday 8:30 - 4:30
Cut off times for:
Money Orders - 2:00 
Registered Mail - 2:45 
Express Mail - 3:30
The post office is a contract station. Therefore, these hours must 
be respected for special mailings.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
events
The Fine Line Theatre Company will be hold
ing open auditions for the fourth production of 
its season, Sam Shepards True West, which 
will run from January 7th through January 30th,
1983.
The play is the third of Shepards family 
trilogy and concerns itself with the vanishing 
American ideals of family, artistic integrity and 
love of the land. Called Shepards most accessible 
play, True West is a realistically portrayed look 
t the confrontation between two brothers that is 
vicious and tender, violent and funny.
There are roles for men aged 30-50 and one role 
or a woman aged 55-65. The play will be directed 
y Curt DeBor who will be making his directiorJ debut at the Fine Line.
Auditions will be held Saturday, November 
13th from 1-4 p.m. and Monday, November 15th 
rrom 7-10 p.m. at the Fine Line Theatre, 3300 
ifth Avenue in Oakland.
ittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
The Tooth of Crime by Sam Shepard, running 
Jovember 19 through December 19 (Thursday 
rough Sundays at 8:15 p.m., with madnees on 
mber 5, 12 and 19 at 2:30 p.m.)
All performances of The Tooth of Crime 
/ill be at the Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre 
enter at 420 N. Craig Street in Oakland. Searing 
s limited and advance reservations can be made 
y calling 621-2876.
orbes Gallery: Show of graphic design by Anita 
riscoll, Janet Eberle, Laurie Mizrahi, Amy Mor
in, Arthur Silber, Karen Thomas. November 
]. Opening Tuesday, November 9, 7-9 p.m. 
9 200 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15217, 578-
 081. Hours: Wed.  Sat. 11-6 p.m.
1 iov. 14 Radio on (1979). Directed by Christopher 
PVtit. An existential road movie which examines 
ne confusion and isolation of living in Modem 
turope. Music by David Bowie, Kraftwerk, Devo, 
Ind Robert Fripp form the landscape through 
^hich tlv. driven hero moves. Lecture Hall, Carlegie Institute at 7:30 p.m. $2.50 gen. admission.
e Pittsburgh Dance Alloy will perform Synigy IV: Enola Gay, a dance against the nuclear 
rms race, on Friday, November 12, at 6:30 p.m. 
t CMU in the Hunt Library Multi-Purpose 
oom. Music for the dance will be played by the 
erforming Artists for Nuclear Disarmament. 
Illso, on the same program, the multi-media 
I joup SOFEX will present Music for an 
lipocalypse.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, in conjunction with the 
Weavers Guild of Pittsburgh under a grant from 
the Howard Heinz Endowment, will present 
recent works by two internationally acclaimed 
artists, Sheila Hicks and Daniel Graffin, continu
ing through December 5, at 407 South Craig 
Street.
Student Senate is sponsoring a forum to meet the 
candidates in the upcoming election. It will be 
held in the Skibo Ballroom on Nov. 16,1982, at 6 
p.m. Everyone is invited to attend the regular 
Senate meeting which follows the forum at 7 
p.m. Elections will be held Nov. 17 & 18 in Skibo 
Grey Matter from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Vote!
You are invited to take part in the dances of 
England, New England and Appalachia on Sun
day evenings November 14, 21 and 28 in the 
Social Hall of East Liberty Presbyterian Church,
Highland Avenue at Penn Avenue, at 8 p.m. All 
dances are taught by leaders from the Country 
Dance and Song Society of Pittsburgh. Partners P||J he
are not necessary. Beginners are welcome. For _____________
further information phone 362-5162 or 781-1345.
George Gee and his Make-Believe Ballroom 
Orchestra. Come swing with the best. The show 
is tonight, beginning at 7:30 p.m. at the Skibo 
Make-Believe Ballroom; $1 donation requested.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Opera Theatres pro
duction of the fairy tale opera Hansel and 
Gretel returns to the Syria Mosque for two per
formances November 28 and 29 at 7 p.m. Tickets 
are available at all Kaufmanns or call 421-0197 
for reservations. Group discounts are available.
Nov. 21 Priest of Love (1981). In this portrayal of 
D.H. Lawrence, filmmaker Christopher Miles 
concentrates on anecdotal scenes that pick up the 
famous and controversial writer toward the end of 
his life. The film shows the influence he had on 
the people around him: his wife, the grown 
daughters shed abandoned as little girls to run 
away with him, assorted literary people, patrons, 
and hangers-on. An entertaining biography, Priest 
of Love is a reminder that there was a sexual rev
olution, and that Lawrence had a lot to do with 
making it possible.
SDC Saturday Films 
November 13, 1982
The Point/ The Bugs Bunny Road Runner 
movie
The Point is an animated musical fantasy about 
Oblio, a boy with a poindess head, bom in a 
pla&e where everything has a point. Well, sure 
enough he was banished to the poindess forest 
and then. . .
The Bugs Bunny Road Runner movie is your 
chance to see a compilation of cartoons starring 
the greatest cartoon characters ever. YtS, EVER!
WRCT (88.3 FM) features 
. . . Wed (9 p.m.) Nov 10 and Sat (mid) Nov 13: 
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR  Lords 
of the New Church recorded live in concert.
. . . everyday (8 a.m. and 11 p.m.): RADIO 
CALENDAR CONCERT LIST  Pittsburgh 
concerts coming up in the next 3 weeks 
. . . serveral Tues (8:30 p.m.): INTERVIEWS 
with local bands
... 21 hours everyday: NON COMMERCIAL, 
FREE FORM MUSIC ON WRCT
IEEE Meeting. Chi Wednesday, November 10 Dr. 
Chen erf General Electrics Research and Devel
opment Center will present, GE Careers  An 
Engineers Perspective. The meeting will start 
at 6:30 PM in the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity 
house. A brief business meeting will precede Dr. 
Chens talk. Everyone is welcome. Refreshments 
will be served.
A nondenominational Bible discussion group
meets every Monday evening at 9, in Room 39, 
Skibo. This discussion group is open to all CMU 
students. Feel free to bring a friend. For more 
information, call 441-0819, and ask for John.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation.
The Mortar Board Word erf the Week: Pellicle 
a thin skin or film. Usage example: as the day 
warmed the skaters began to fall through the 
pellicle of ice.
Pre-Law Club. Organization Meeting for all 
interested in a Pre-Law Club, Room 225, GSLA, 
7:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 23.
official
Thursday, November 11 at 4:30 p.m. in Gregg 
Hall (PH 100) a forum discussing the Financial 
State of the University will be held.
Panelists will be President Richard Cyert, Pro
vost Richard Van Horn and Vice President Fred 
Rogers. Acting Dean of Student Affairs, Braden 
L. Walter will moderate.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, "602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, 
December 1, 1982. Students who wish to meet 
with the president should telephone his office, 
578-2200, to set up an appointment.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30 - 3:30, BH 
260.
classifieds
Attention all skiers and snow bunnies: when the 
first snowfall arrives, wouldnt you like to be out 
on the slopes? Well, you can and something more 
... A free room in a rural modem cabin near 
Seven Springs could be yours. (Space is limited). 
For more information, call 682-9455 between 
11:30 a.m.  1:30 p.m. or after 5 p.m. Leave your 
name & telephone number for best service.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
We have your buggy(s)! New and used buggies 
for sale/lease. Call Pi Kappa Alpha. 682-1474.
Infertility robbed us of our precious babies. Help 
us find a baby to love and adopt. Our experience 
with previously adopted baby so great that we 
desire another child. Confidential, medical 
expenses paid. 487-1430.
Dear Bill, These past 365 days have been the most 
wonderful of my enure life. Thank you. ILY 
always. Catherine.
Free mailed Bible correspondence course, home 
Bible study, or counselling from the word of 
God, write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 10542, 
Pgh, PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560.
CMU PIG The Pro-Choice Involvement Com
mittee, will hold its monthly meeting on Tues
day, Nov. 9th at 8:30 p.m. in room 13 Skibo.
Adoption - not abortion. If you know of someone 
who can help us find a baby that needs a family, 
call 443-5451.
Guitar lessons  Classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
CMU music student. H hr.  $6; 1 hr  $10. Call 
Jozsef Toth. 683-7331.
Improve your grades! Research catalog  306 
pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 25097C 
Los Angeles, CA 90025. (213)477-8226.
Professional Typing/ Word Processing: Thesis, 
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters, 
etc. (MLA - APA 8c Turabian strongly observed.) 
Large variety' of typefaces and 24 hour service 
available. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satisfaction 
guaranteed.
More classifieds on page 28
ARE YOU CONSIDERING PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL?
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
IS LOOKING FOR FUTURE LEADERS IN PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 
COME LEARN ABOUT HARVARDS TWO-YEAR MASTERS 
PROGRAM IN PUBLIC POLICY, LEADING TO EITHER THE 
MASTER IN PUBLIC POLICY OR CITY AND REGIONAL PLAN
NING DEGREE.
MEET WITH:
DATE:
TIME:
CONTACT:
PROFESSOR H. JAMES BROWN
DIRECTOR OF JOINT CENTER FOR URBAN STUDIES
AT HARVARD AND MIT.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1982
2 PM AND 3 PM GROUP INFORMATIONAL SESSIONS
ANN W1TCHNER 
STUDENT SERVICES 
578-2107
SESSION WILL BE HELD IN: SKIBO HALL ROOM 11. 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS, ALL YEARS WELCOME! JOINT 
DEGREE PROGRAMS OFFERED WITH HARVARDS OTHER PRO
FESSIONAL SCHOOLS.
ORIGINAL 
THINKING
In the age of information technology, a company 
whose sales of $1.7 billion annually and whose 
products and components extend from data acqui
sition and information processing through data 
communication to voice, video and graphic com
munication  is making original thinking a reality 
for their new graduates.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
December 7th and 8th
Electrical, Civil, Industrial and Mechanical 
Engineering, Applied Mathematics and Computer 
Science Majors 
Make arrangements at the Placement Office.
HARRIS
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H/V
CALI 378-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanNovember 9, 1982
ROTC tough in Olympiad more classifieds
continued from page 23
Later in the day, Karen did an amazing 60 
military pushups in two minutes and 90 
gut-wrenching sit-ups in an additional two 
minutes, winning both of those female 
events.
CMUs Laurand Lewandowski, a sopho
more Chem E, was an outstanding per
former in the long-distance running events. 
First he won the mens one-mile run with a
time of 5:02, then in the two-mile run he 
lapped all of the other contestants at least 
once to win with a blistering time of 10:19.
Outnumbered by Pitt 2-1, CMUs highquality team couldnt maintain their early 
lead. At the end of the track meet, the 
exhausted CMU team had to settle for 237 
points and second place. Pitt took first place 
overall with 283 points while Duquesne fin
ished a distant third with 83 points.Psychedelic Furs at Heaven
continued from page 22
more mellow future. The mix, I think, 
exemplified this loss of direction, too. For 
one thing, it was incredibly loud. It might 
have been a lame attempt to capture the 
jagged, wall of sound their first two albums 
used and that the third sometimes touches. 
But any effect was lost because of the 
muddiness-not crisp, like the endings to 
Dumb Waiters or Wedding Song.
It was confusing to try to judge The Psy
chedelic Furs. Its obvious that theyre mov
ing in a different direction, but they risk 
losing their cult of fans. Their uneven per
formance didnt totally discourage me. I 
think the cello in their music adds to their 
previous distinctive sound. Perhaps as they 
become more sure of their direction and 
familiar with its musical expression, The 
Furs will be the intense concert experience 
that I had hoped for Thursday.
Meanwhile, the Man with the Lighbulb 
Head bums out and looks for another trend 
to screw into.
Audio Recording Hempfield Recording Lex
icon, Delta Lab, Sennheiser and Neumann. 
Small 8-track studio including, State of the 
Arts outboard equipment. Create excellent 
recording opportunity at reasonable fees. 864- 
0787.
Available immediately. Furnished efficiencies
share bath, 5 min. from CMU campus. Referen
ces required. $150 & $175, utilities included. Call 
621-0815 between 9 and 4.
LOST at Tuition Rally on Fri. Oct. 29 a very 
special watch with broken twist-a-flex band and 
stopwatch function. This is an heirloom with 
special emotional value. I am offering a 
REWARD for its return. If you have any infor
mation please contact Bruce Blair at 681-8881.
- . -  V vProfessional typing and word processing. Fast, 
efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
research papers, term papers. 24 hr. service. Satis
faction guaranteed. For best results call Ms. West. 
371-3657.
Loving professional couple seeks adoption erf 
infant. Can you help us? Call after 6 p.m. Bill and 
Gloria, 856-5827.
Quiet, responsible woman needs housing. Nonsmoker, semi vegetarian (more veggie than semi) 
Martha, 941-6924 Evenings before 11 p.m.
JITNEY will play through November 20 at the 
Fine Line Cultural Center, 3300 Fifth Avenue in 
Oakland. For reservations and information call
621-9364.
CMU! Skiers! Winter break ski trip to Killington 
or Smugglers Notch ski resorts in Vermont! 5 
days skiing, 5 nights lodging in slopeside condos 
with kitchens and nightly parties from $156. Caij 
(800) 368-2006 TOLL FREE ASK FOR NANCY 
Go with friends or organize a small group and ski 
for FREE.
Wallace at CMU
continued from page 21
Bachelor of Art. In addition, he graduated 
from Cambridge University in England 
with a Master of Art. He is presently a pro
fessor of English at Case-Western Reserve in 
Cleveland, Ohio.
Wallace gives approximately three or four 
readings each year by invitation. He limits 
himself to this amount bacause he wants to 
avoid becoming repetitive or stale. In 
his leisure, Wallace enjoys swimming and 
frequent visits to Paris, France.
This Desk Can Reach Mach 2.
Some desk jobs are more exciting than others.As a Navy pilot or flight officer, your desk can be a sophis ticated combination of supersonic jet aircraft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know how you need.In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership.Your path to leadership starts with officer training thats among the most demanding in the military. Its intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And its all geared to prepare you and other college graduates for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is tough but | rewarding.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 216
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becom
ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tfeam. (0A)
Name.
One important reward for Navy officers is decisionFirst(Please Print)
Address.
City-------
Age--------
.State.
_ tCollege/ U ni versi ty_
tYear in College.
AMajor/Minor__
Phone Number.
making authority.In the air, and on the ground, you have management responsibility from the beginning. And your responsibility grows as you gain experience. No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying.The salary is exciting, too. Right away, youll earn about $18,000 a year. Thats better than the average corporation will pay you just out of college.And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $30,400 after four years. Thats on top of a full package of benefits and privileges.Before you settle down to an earth-______________, bound desk job, reachfor the sky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Aviation Tbam. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound.
.Apt. #.
.Zip.
.?GPA.
(Area Code) Best Time to Call
This is for general recruitment information You do not have to furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify.
Navy Officers 
Get Responsibility Fast
