Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
FORUMSPORTSSCITECH
Linderella running wild in New York City  A8Facebook Parenting fathers actions justi?ed  A6Researches say manganese may ?ght E. coli  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 20, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 19
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
Around 60 members of the 
university community met last 
Tuesday afternoon to discuss 
Carnegie Mellons options 
amid a state funding crisis 
that has the Port Authority of 
Allegheny County proposing a 
cut of 35 percent of its bus and 
light rail service.
Ryan Wolfe, Carnegie Mellons director of Campus Services, led an hour-long town 
hall meeting in the University 
Centers Danforth Lounge to 
inform attendees about the 
proposed cuts and to answer 
questions about how the university could compensate for a 
reduction in bus service.
Wolfe presented an analysis of Carnegie Mellons use of 
the Port Authority system and 
how it would be impacted by 
planned route cuts. In the six 
months from July to December 2011, students, faculty, 
and staff have taken around 
900,000 rides on 100 different routes. Nearly 90 percent 
of the ridership is concentrated in the 20 routes most 
frequently used by members 
of the university.
Among the top routes, the 
Port Authority has scheduled 
the 64, 69, and 58 for elimination in September. Another, 
the 28X, would stop at Robinson Town Center and no 
longer serve the airport. The 
buses most frequently used by 
Carnegie Mellon riders, the 61 
and 71 series, would continue 
to exist with service reductions. Of these, only the 61B, 
71A, and 71D would continue 
to operate after 10 p.m.
At Tuesdays meeting, discussion of Carnegie Mellons 
response to the proposed transit cuts fell into three areas: 
direct talks with the Port Authority, possible lobbying of 
the state government in Harrisburg, and enhancing the 
universitys shuttle and Escort 
routes.  Many of the audience 
questions concerned shuttle 
expansions, but Wolfe cautioned that a university-run 
service would be much smaller and more focused toward 
campus than the public buses.
Were not even in a position to replicate the top 20 
routes ... with our own shuttle 
and Escort system, he said. 
Still, he said it would be possible for Carnegie Mellon 
to replace a few key routes, 
perhaps jointly with the University of Pittsburgh. Service 
to Green?eld and the airport 
would be the top two priorities, though airport service 
would likely operate at reduced hours compared to the 
current 28X.
I guarantee you that, if 
theres no 28X, we will ?nd a 
way to get people to the airport, Vice President for Campus Affairs Michael Murphy 
said at the meeting.
An audience member suggested that the current Pittsburgh Technology Center 
(PTC) shuttle could stop in 
Green?eld on its way to Second Avenue. Lieutenant Joseph Meyers, who directs the 
shuttle and Escort program 
for University Police, said that 
he had already been thinking about reworking the PTC 
route.
My original thought was 
to run it through Oakland 
(at least on the return run) 
to provide another option 
for any Oakland folks to get 
to campus, he wrote in an 
email after Tuesdays forum. 
I really hadnt considered the 
Green?eld possibility because 
no one has ever expressed 
a desire for Green?eld service.... Its certainly something 
I would explore if requested.
Other attendees asked if 
it would be possible to combine shuttle operations with 
neighboring universities or 
adding connecting routes to 
the East Busway. Meyers said 
that Carnegie Mellon and Pitt 
students can already ride each 
others shuttles with proper 
ID, and Carnegie Mellons 
current A, B, and AB shuttles 
already make stops at the East 
Busways Negley Station.
The ?nancing of bus rides 
 whether by campus shuttles 
or by the Port Authority  was 
also a recurring theme during 
the forum. Carnegie Mellon is 
set to open talks with the Port 
Authority this week over the 
universitys next ?ve-year contract with the transit agency, 
which will begin later this 
year.
Campus seeks solutions to Pittsburgh transit troubles
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
A diverse group of people 
with careers in media held 
a discussion called New 
Media/News Media in the 
Steinberg Auditorium last 
Wednesday. The six panelists 
spoke in front of a nearly full 
auditorium about the current 
state of media and the directions they see it taking in the 
future. The panel was held by 
the Center for Arts in Society, 
a collaborative effort between 
faculties in the College of Fine 
Arts and the Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences that explores the interaction of society and art.
The panel consisted of an 
editor from the Pittsburgh 
City Paper, a columnist and 
an editor from the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette, a reporter from 
Essential Pittsburgh Radio, a 
blogger, and a Pulitzer Prizewinning photographer. 
Professor of art James 
Duesing introduced the program, and associate professor of English Kathy Newman 
introduced the panelists. An 
informal attitude prevailed, 
with panelists referencing 
each other and discussing the 
points others raised. The panel closed with questions from 
the audience.
Chris Potter of the Pittsburgh City Paper presented a 
slide show about his experiences integrating social media 
into his work. He explained 
the importance of distinctions 
between of?cial and unof?cial 
online presences for journalists by sharing a lighthearted 
tweet claiming that a local 
television reporter known for 
gross inaccuracies was not a 
person at all, but 12 marmots 
bundled up in a suit.
Potter also talked at length 
about website design for print 
publications. Designers and 
writers are making America 
dumber by increasing white 
space and decreasing text, he 
said. He ended his presentation by asking for donations 
for his newborn daughters 
college fund, exclaiming, 
Print journalism is dead, everyone!
Tony Norman, a Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette columnist, said 
that he does not believe print 
journalism is dead yet, but 
likened mainstream media to 
dinosaurs right before the asteroid impact, and blogs to the 
?rst mammals. However, he 
believes that after mainstream 
media loses its pro?tability, a 
series of aspirational changes will allow the industry to 
reclaim a unique environment 
similar to that found at tech 
companies like Google.
We joke about the established media being dinosaurs and falling apart, said 
John Allison, associate editor for the Post-Gazette, but 
were resilient, were creating 
something people want. Allison later said that while he 
was glad to be invited to give 
his views and learn campus 
attitudes through the tone 
of questions, he found that 
young people lack the romance for print his generation held.
Andrew Schwartz, a ?rstyear information systems and 
statistics double major who attended the event, concurred, 
saying, I get my information 
from my Twitter feed, I subscribe to Anderson Cooper, 
I subscribe to The New York 
Times. However, he enjoyed 
and recommended the panel, 
although only for those with 
an interest or stake in journalism.
The other panelists were 
more hopeful for the future of 
media. Photographer Martha 
Rial explained her new af?nity for journalistic slideshows 
that combined photography 
and narration. Award-winning blogger Maria Lupinacci 
went over how she managed 
to achieve success in the 
blogosphere, and explained 
how she believes the future of 
journalism will be a balance of 
traditional and new media.
Deanna Garcia of Essential Pittsburgh Radio said that 
while the future of all media, 
radio especially, seems to be 
somewhat unclear, Carnegie 
Mellon students may have 
an edge. The mix of backgrounds and the strength of 
the programs here ... may 
mean that a student or professor here may know more 
about whats going on in the 
world of new media than ... a 
station owner or editor, Garcia said.
Local journalists debate new media
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Ryan Wolfe, the director of Campus Services, presents information about Carnegie Mellons bus usage.
Photo illustration by Celia Ludwinski/Contributing Editor
See BUSES, A3
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
FEATURE GRAPHICIncoming students to pay 4% more
Greg Hanneman/Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellons Board of Trustees approved tuition changes for the 
201213 academic year on Feb. 15. Tuition for incoming students will 
rise by 4 percent to $44,880, while tuition for current students will rise 
by 3 percent. Housing and board costs will rise by $260 and $180, 
respectively. The total cost of attendance will rise by 3.97 percent for 
incoming students and 3.19 for current students. According to the 
email announcing the changes, this years tuition increase is among 
Carnegie Mellons smallest since 1975.

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 20, 2012
Mark Goulthorpe
Monday at 6 p.m. 
Carnegie Museum of Art
Mark Goulthorpe, a professor of architecture at the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, will give a lecture on digital design and architecture. 
Goulthorpe is the head of 
dECOi Architects, an architectural ?rm that has published several books on digital architecture design. The 
?rm specializes in adaptive 
architecture  architecture 
which changes to suit the 
needs of its users  and has 
worked on projects internationally. It was named one of 
the Architectural League of 
New Yorks Emerging Voices in 2006. It has completed 
projects ranging from an of?ce refurbishment in Boston 
to a computer display system 
with a surface that physically 
moves.
Literary & Cultural 
Studies Colloquium: 
David Golumbia, 
University of Virginia
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Steinberg Auditorium  
(Baker Hall A53)
David Golumbia, an English professor at the University of Virginia, will deliver 
a talk titled Why Digital 
Humanities Hates Literary 
and Cultural Studies: The Secret History, and What to Do 
About It. 
The lecture will discuss 
the ?eld of digital humanities. Golumbia believes that 
those in the ?eld of digital 
humanities wish to drastically change traditional humanities, that they do not place 
enough value on what they 
would like to preserve about 
the latter subject.
Golumbia obtained his 
Ph.D. from the University of 
Pennsylvania. He specializes 
in cultural studies and linguistics, and has participated 
in several humanities and 
computing projects.
Real Life Story Series: In 
Defense of Logistics
Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
Connan Room, 
University Center
Carnegie Mellon alumna 
Emma Friedman, the logistics manager for the U.S. Department of Defenses Phased 
Array Radar Programs, will 
share her experiences in the 
competitive, largely male 
?eld of defense. 
Friedman will describe 
some ways in which her time 
at Carnegie Mellon helped 
to prepare her. As logistics 
manager, Friedman oversees 
the design, acquisition, and 
upkeep of defense systems 
internationally. The six programs that she manages have 
a combined budget of over 
$20 million.
Swartz Entrepreneurial 
Leadership Series
Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. 
Posner Hall 153
Barry Silbert, the founder 
and CEO of SecondMarket, will speak as part of the 
James R. Schwartz Entrepreneurial Leadership Series. 
Founded in 2004, SecondMarket is an online marketplace through which users can buy, sell, and trade 
non-liquid assets such as 
loans, stocks, and bankruptcy 
claims. With over 75,000 registered users, SecondMarket 
is the second-largest secondary market of its kind in the 
world.
SecondMarket was recently named a 2011 Technology Pioneer by the World 
Economic Forum. It has also 
been named one of Fifty 
Tech Startups You Should 
Know by BusinessWeek. Before he founded SecondMarket, Silbert was an investment banker. His specialties 
were in ?nancial restructurings, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate ?nancing transactions.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
The article Budget de?cit threatens bus service 
(News, Feb. 6) incorrectly stated that a 2007 planned 
Port Authority service reduction was scaled back from 
35 percent to 15 percent. The scale-back actually occurred in 2010. Additionally, Port Authority spokesperson Heather Pharos name was misspelled as Heather 
Pharos.
The feature photo (News, Feb. 6) was incorrectly attributed to Jennifer Coloma. The actual photographer 
was Jonathan Carreon.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry.
Lecture Preview
The Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, along with 
the University of Pennsylvanias School of Engineering 
and Applied Science, received a $3.5 million grant 
last Wednesday which will 
fund research related to the 
improvement of transportation. The grant, which spans 
the next two years, focuses 
speci?cally on initial inquiry 
into, and eventual development of, innovative technologies that will make transportation safer and more 
ef?cient.
As a result of the grant, 
a new initiative called the 
University Transportation 
Center for Technologies for 
Safe and Ef?cient Transportation, or T-SET UTC, will be 
developed by Carnegie Mellon and Penn, and located on 
Carnegie Mellons Pittsburgh 
campus.
Carnegie Mellon electrical and chemical engineering professor Raj Rajkumar 
will serve as the director of 
the UTC. State-of-the-art 
computing and communication technologies can signi?-
cantly advance the safety and 
ef?ciency of transportation, 
since extending the physical 
infrastructure is both very 
expensive and limited by existing road layouts, Rajkumar said in a university press 
release.
The center will also work 
closely with Traf?c21, a multidisciplinary research team 
currently working on the development of technologies 
that will deploy information 
to improve safety conditions 
of transportation options.
The Carnegie Mellon and 
Penn UTC was chosen as one 
of 22 grant recipients out of 
63 applicants.
A group of professors, 
graduate students, and postdoctoral fellows from Carnegie Mellons department 
of engineering and public 
policy researched the risks 
hurricanes pose to offshore 
wind turbines in the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf Coast regions. 
Recently, the researchers released their ?ndings. They 
say that some turbines are at 
risk.
Engineering and public 
policy professor Paulina Jaramillo is the primary author 
of the paper summarizing the 
results, which appeared last 
week in the Proceedings of 
the National Academy of Sciences. The groups research 
focused on the shore regions 
with the most accessible offshore wind resources. Those 
regions were struck by hurricanes more than 90 times 
between 1949 and 2008.
The U.S. Department of 
Energy has estimated that 
if the U.S. is to generate 20 
percent of its electricity from 
wind that some 50 [gigawatts] of power will have to 
come from offshore turbines 
that may be vulnerable to 
hurricane damage, Jaramillo said in a university press 
release. While no offshore 
wind farms have been built 
in the U.S., there are several 
in advanced stages of planning.
The research team proposed the development of 
prevention and safety measures that would allow these 
turbines to measure wind 
direction. Ideally, such measures would help prevent 
serious hurricane damage in 
the future.
Compiled by
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
CIT awarded new grant for transportation improvement
Research reveals offshore wind turbines at storm risk
Singles gather for Valentines Day soire
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
47 / 39
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
49 / 40
THURSDAY
High / Low
49 / 40
FRIDAY
High / Low
42 / 29
SATURDAY
High / Low
36 / 28
Suspicious Person
Feb. 9, 2012
University Police responded to a call for a suspicious person who was trying 
to enter 411 S. Craig St. The 
male said he needed to talk 
to someone, but didnt know 
who. When of?cers arrived, 
he said he needed to talk to 
someone about God. He was 
advised that Carnegie Mellon 
is private property and was 
asked not to return.
Noise Complaint
Feb. 11, 2012
University Police responded twice to Fairfax Apartments for a noise complaint. 
University Police cleared 30 
to 35 guests from a party in 
the area, and the resident was 
cited for excessive noise.
Vandalism
Feb. 13, 2012
University Police responded to Doherty Hall for a report 
of vandalism. Different obscene words and phrases were 
written in black permanent 
marker on different pieces of 
equipment in a lab. This case 
is still under investigation.
De?ant Trespassing
Feb. 14, 2012
While of?cers were responding to a burglary call in 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
Hall, they found and stopped 
a suspicious male in the vicinity. Of?cers learned that this 
male had previously been issued a de?ant trespass warning for being on campus when 
he was not supposed to be. 
They also found that there 
was a warrant out for the man 
in Chicago, Ill. 
The male was placed in 
custody, and later transported 
to the Allegheny County Jail 
and charged with de?ant trespassing.
Carrying a False ID
Feb. 16, 2012
A Carnegie Mellon security of?cer found a wallet in 
the computer cluster in West 
Wing. 
The wallet was turned over 
to University Police. During 
an inventory of the contents 
of the wallet, a fake drivers license was located, along with 
the owners real identi?cation. 
The owner of the wallet 
responded to the University 
Police station to recover her 
wallet. Upon the owners arrival she was cited for carrying a false ID.
De?ant Trespassing
Feb. 16, 2012
A staff member at the Mellon Institute called the Carnegie Mellon security desk to 
report a suspicious male wandering through the building. 
The security of?cer receiving 
the call recognized the male 
from the description given, 
and detained him until University Police arrived on the 
scene. The male initially gave 
the of?cers a false name. The 
of?cers were able to positively 
identify him. 
He was issued a de?ant 
trespassing warning letter 
and told that if he returned to 
Carnegie Mellon property, he 
would be arrested and prosecuted for trespassing.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Civil and environmental engineering masters students Ankita Gupta, Catherine Hanna, and Anusha Srinivasan hung out at the Singles Soire on 
Tuesday, Feb. 14. Organized by the Activities Board, the Soire featured a dinner buffet, a jazz band, and free dance lessons.
Statistically Speaking
As this years newest line of smartphones and tablets hits the shelves, customers may be surprised to see 
a trend towards larger devices. In fact, this years new 
Samsung Galaxy Note reigns as the largest smartphone 
ever released in the United States. Here are a few statistics documenting the history of cell phone growth:
4.5x2.31
38%
Approximate percentage of size increase from the 
iPhone 4S to the Galaxy Note
13x3.5
Size in inches of the Motorola DynaTAC, the ?rst cellphone sold 
commercially3x6
Approximate size in inches of Samsungs Galaxy Note
Compiled by 
COURTNEY WITTEKIND
Sources: www.slate.com and 
www.samsung.com
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Size in inches of the iPhone 4S

---------------------------------------------------

February 20, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
KECHUN MAO
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon is participating in the three-week Campus Conservation Nationals 
(CCN) competition from Feb. 
6 to Feb. 27.
CCN is the ?rst national 
competition aimed at motivating college students to reduce 
electricity and water consumption on their campuses. 
All the participant schools 
about 150 colleges this year 
 work together to reach one 
collective goal: to save one 
gigawatt-hour of electricity 
consumption.
In response to the nationwide CCN, Carnegie Mellon 
has organized a competition 
among residential halls on 
campus. 
The nine buildings in the 
contest are Boss House, Donner House, Hamerschlag 
House, Henderson House, 
McGill House, Mudge House, 
Scobell House, Stever House, 
and Welch House. The residence hall that conserves the 
most electricity will be rewarded with a pizza party.
Barbara Kviz, the co-chair 
and environmental coordinator of Carnegie Mellons 
green practices committee, 
is in charge of the event. According to Kviz, Facilities 
Management Services (FMS) 
obtained the baseline electricity consumption before Feb. 6 
in the competing residential 
halls. 
The data will be compared 
to the consumption rate during the competition in order 
to determine the percent reduction. 
On Feb. 6, FMS launched 
a website where students can 
check real-time electricity usage data as well as previous 
data. According to Kviz, the 
real-time data has been helpful in pinpointing anomalous 
energy usage.
We are ?nding in one  
particular building, in Henderson, something is going 
on there that is generating a 
tremendous amount of electricity, Kviz said. We are trying to investigate what that is, 
because we dont know what 
it is.
Julie Woo, a ?rst-year in 
CIT who lives in Boss House, 
said in an email, I was aware 
of this competition because I 
saw it on the whiteboard that 
I walk past everyday [sic] on 
the way to my room. I think 
posting it in the dorms and 
high traf?c areas where people walk by daily is a good way 
to publicize the event.
However, she also said that 
the competition really hasnt 
changed the way she consumed energy because it had 
already been her habit to turn 
the lights off when she left the 
dorm.
Not all students are aware 
of the competition. Alex Gerber, a ?rst-year math and economics major who also lives in 
Boss House, said in an email, 
No, I have never heard of the 
contest. I would like to know 
more about it, as it sounds like 
a promising incentive to conserve energy on a daily basis.
Zac Vennard, a senior international relations major 
and an RA in Boss House, said 
in an email, Students can be 
better exposed to the competition through more promotion 
in general. Weve received 
very few emails about this, 
and the few outlets of information (posters and here-say 
[sic]) that are being used are 
too passive. I believe that if 
we really want to get the word 
out, we need to make a much 
bigger deal of the competition 
and our participation in it.
He said that the website 
would be a very good tool to 
better promote the competition and to get students actually interested in the event.
According to Kviz, the 
website will remain active after the competition ends. She 
said that the competitions 
organizers are searching for 
a student who can help them 
to improve the websites interface.
Dorms compete to conserve energy
Under the current agreement, the university pays 
the Port Authority a preset 
amount each year, no matter 
the actual number of rides 
taken. Murphy said that the 
sum works out to around 
$1.08 per ride, up from 58 
cents ?ve years ago. 
Outside of Carnegie Mellon, Murphy said, the Port Authority takes in approximately 
$1.30 per ride but spends 
more than $4. 
Some in the audience questioned whether Carnegie Mellon should offer to pay more, 
either for pragmatic or ethical 
reasons. In a follow-up interview, Wolfe said that extra 
payments from the university 
would have little effect on the 
authoritys service level or 
bottom line. They have a $64 
million problem, he said of 
the Port Authority. Even if we 
were able to give them a million more dollars, thats not 
helping. In the grand scheme 
of things, its not enough to 
help. Carnegie Mellon paid 
approximately $1.5 million 
for bus passes this year, Wolfe 
said.
Carnegie Mellons next 
contract with the Port Authority will include the use of 
smart cards that users will 
tap against fare boxes rather 
than showing them manually 
to the driver. Pitt has already 
tested and converted to a 
similar system. According to 
Wolfe, the university will begin a test over the summer and 
fully convert to the new cards 
over the course of next school 
year.
Smart cards will tie transit 
pass validity automatically to 
records in the Carnegie Mellon Card Of?ce instead of requiring an expiration date to 
be printed on university IDs. 
The cards will also facilitate 
more precise ridership tracking and change Carnegie Mellons contract with the Port 
Authority to a per-ride payment rather than a lump sum.
But with contract negotiations in the future, the Port 
Authoritys cuts still not ?nalized, and a transit funding bill 
pending in the state legislature in Harrisburg, Carnegie 
Mellons ultimate response to 
any public transit cutback is 
also yet to be decided.
On Tuesday, Wolfe encouraged audience members to 
participate in the Port Authoritys public hearing process, either by ?lling out the authoritys online comment form or 
by attending a day-long hearing scheduled for Feb. 29 at 
the David Lawrence Convention Center downtown. 
He said the university 
will likely release an of?cial 
statement through the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, a nonpro?t group of area business 
and university leaders whose 
goals include improving the 
regions transportation infrastructure.
Student Senate Chair Will 
Weiner, a junior statistics and 
social and decision sciences 
double major, said that student 
government is planning a trip 
to Harrisburg to lobby in favor 
of House Bill 2112, a proposal 
to fund public transportation 
in the state with $200 million 
from Pennsylvania Turnpike 
revenue.
 Senate has also launched  
www.stoppatcuts.com, where 
visitors can sign a petition in 
support of the bill.
Ultimately, concrete action 
depends on the Port Authoritys ?nal service plan  due 
to be voted on by the agency 
April 27  and the state legislatures budget hearings later 
this month and in March.
There are so many variables and unknowns right 
now for us to begin to even 
formulate a strategy, Meyers 
said in an email. My main 
concern right now is getting 
some de?nitive answers about 
[the Port Authoritys] fate in 
enough time that we can react 
thoughtfully and decisively.
Wolfe agreed, saying that 
the university is, to some extent, playing a waiting game. 
Were going to watch what 
we see out of Harrisburg, kind 
of what the tone of the whole 
situation is, and as we get closer to April I think were going 
to start seeing what is the likelihood of these cuts actually 
coming true, he said. Were 
going to probably experience 
a certain amount of cuts. 
Whether or not itll be the full 
35 percent, its probably too 
early to tell.
Future of local transit up in the air
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
A man convicted of insider trading warned Tepper School of Business students in a video conference 
on Tuesday not to make the 
same mistakes he did.
Garrett Bauer, a proprietary trader, pled guilty to 
insider trading in December 
2011. Bauer was the tippee, 
as he put it: The person who 
trades on secrets given to him 
by an insider. 
In Bauers case, the insider was his long-time friend, 
mortgage banker Kenneth 
Robinson, as well as lawyer Matthew Kluger. Bauer 
traded on Robinson and 
Klugers secrets for $37 million, according to the federal 
governments estimates. The 
proceeds were split among 
the three men.
Since being released on 
a $4 million bail, Bauer has 
spoken at numerous business schools about the consequences of insider trading.
I really want to prevent 
you from committing my 
crime, insider trading, or really any crime in general, 
Bauer said in the short prepared speech that began the 
conference. There are catastrophic consequences which 
nobody believes is going to 
happen to them. Bauer said 
that insider trading is common in the ?eld of business, 
and he wants to ensure that 
todays students do not engage in it, for their and others sake.
In his prepared remarks 
and during the question-andanswer session that followed, 
Bauer described in detail how 
he had committed his crimes, 
how he was prosecuted, and 
what the future likely holds 
for him.
Roshan Sriram, a ?rstyear Tepper student, said 
that one of the most interesting aspects of Bauers speech 
was his descriptions of life in 
jail. It was really interesting 
[hearing about] everything 
from his whole experience in 
the process, his whole time in 
jail, Sriram said.
Bauer shared many details of his experiences in jail, 
from ?nding a spork that he 
used for every meal to being 
issued a phone card that never worked. He said that if he 
gets his anticipated sentence 
of nine to 11 years, he will 
probably be held in a minimum-security prison, which 
is arranged more like a camp 
than a jail.
Jennifer Cai, ?rst-year 
business administration major and activities director of 
the Undergraduate Finance 
Association, which coordinated the event, said that she 
hoped the talk gave students 
a personal look at insider 
trading.
His personal anecdotes 
were amazing. Some of it 
was so emotional for me, Cai 
said. I could really imagine 
being in jail.... I liked how he 
shared so much of his personal experience. He could 
have talked a lot more about 
investment and trading, but 
instead he talked a lot about 
how he felt.
The questions students 
asked ranged from personal 
to business-oriented. One 
student asked whether Bauer 
had spoken to Robinson since 
he had turned him in. Another student asked whether 
Bauer had ever heard a trader refuse to trade on insider 
secrets. To both questions, 
Bauer said he had not. One 
student asked for the speci?c 
names of ?rms that Bauer 
had gotten good deals with, 
but Bauer did not provide 
them.
Sriram felt that the conference was effective. You 
hear about [insider trading] 
a lot. Its a very present problem in this country, he said. 
I didnt know that the consequences were that severe. His 
future is basically ruined.
Cai agreed. She said that 
Bauer was an important and 
unusual speaker to have. 
Were interested in preparing our members for careers 
in ?nance, and I think a lot of 
times some ethical issues are 
overlooked, and I thought 
this was a good chance to emphasize the ethical issues, 
she said. I thought it added 
a lot of value to what we do 
as an organization.
Insider trader tells students his story
I really want 
to prevent 
you from 
committing 
my crime.... 
There are 
catastrophic 
consequences 
which nobody 
believes is 
going to 
happen to 
them.
Garrett Bauer
Former proprietary 
trader
Juan Fernandez/Staff
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Greg Hanneman/Contributing Editor
BUSES, from A1
They have a 
$64 million 
problem. Even 
if we were able 
to give them a 
million more 
dollars, thats 
not helping.
Ryan Wolfe
Director of Campus 
Services

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 20, 2012
Musical challenge 
bridges machine 
learning, creativity
LIGIA NISTOR
Junior Staffwriter
This month is February Album Writing Month 
(FAWM), an annual online 
songwriting challenge for 
musicians to write a collection of songs in a months 
time. Though the challenge 
of composing 14 songs by the 
end of February may seem 
daunting, the technology 
embedded in the challenges 
website, FAWM.org, is designed to give participants 
some help.
The creator of the challenge, Burr Settles, is a Carnegie Mellon postdoctoral 
researcher in the department of machine learning. 
He thought of the project as 
a graduate student at University of Wisconsin-Madison in 
2004. What started as a fun 
extracurricular activity gradually turned into a platform 
for musicians to share new 
songs globally. 
Settles explained that 
in the last couple of years, 
FAWM has spawned new research used for building statistical language models to 
help songwriters overcome 
writers block. The interactive 
tools featured on FAWM.org 
that try to facilitate creativity include Titular, LyriCloud, 
Struxxure, and Plot Spline.
Musicians can use Titular 
to generate song titles and 
start the creative process. 
LyriCloud displays a number of semantically related 
words, starting from a seed 
word given as input. When 
typing in life, for example, 
some of the words that one 
might receive are delish, 
freebie, soul, taxicabs, 
or unexamined. 
These are not random 
words, Settles explained. 
They are based on automated 
analysis of song lyrics from 
the internet and of frequently 
associated words.
Struxxure helps with generating song structures, such 
as verse/chorus/bridge constructions. Plot Spline is a 
framing device for creating 
a songs plot. An example of 
a generated spline, according to the website, would 
be: Write a song in second 
person (you) in which the 
main character is thinking 
out loud. The story takes 
place in the present, and the 
scene is a moving vehicle.
The FAWM website has 
become a testbed for interactive machine learning 
technology to support online 
communities and creativity, Settles said. It has facilitated the study of social 
in?uences, such as whether 
leaving comments or collaborating on a song motivates 
individual success or if those 
behaviors are associated with 
the number of songs a user 
writes. 
For example, if FAWM 
newcomers receive comments in the ?rst couple of 
weeks after posting, they 
are more likely to continue 
to contribute. Ideally, every 
song will get at least one 
piece of feedback.
Anyone who publishes 14 
songs is automatically declared a winner. So far this 
month, there are roughly 50 
winners.
Vincent Poprocky, a senior at the University of 
Pittsburgh majoring in information sciences, has 
participated in the FAWM 
challenge multiple times. 
Although he plays bass in a 
band, he uses the website 
for his own songwriting. The 
one-month deadline is his 
motivator for writing many 
of the songs that he plans to 
use for solo shows this year. 
Completing the challenge 
is a good opportunity to 
have something that you can 
be proud of and show people, Poprocky said.
In a world where artists are constantly looking 
for innovation, the FAWM 
challenge tries to give some 
direction, Settles said; it 
helps users to come up with 
ideas that are plausible but 
novel, while drawing some 
boundaries. 
Although technology has 
been utilized as an art medium, Settles said, it has not 
been used enough to help 
humans in the creative process. This project tries to use 
computer science in support 
of the humanities and the 
creative arts.
Manganese may ?ght E. coli toxins
MICHAEL SETZER
Staffwriter
When multiple children 
died of an  E. coli outbreak 
that stemmed from a Jack in 
the Box restaurant in 1993, 
the bacteria made national 
headlines. Millions of people 
around the world continue to 
die from multiple strains of 
Escherichia coli and other organisms from the Shiga toxin 
family of bacteria despite efforts by the federal government to ?ght the strain, according to an MSNBC article. 
To aid in this ?ght against 
the toxin, researchers at 
Carnegie Mellon may have 
found a friend in the element 
manganese.
Shiga toxin bacteria has 
been the culprit in millions 
of deaths, especially in developing nations, according to 
a Carnegie Mellon press release. Although there are currently antibiotics to ?ght the 
bacteria, the treatment forces 
the dying bacteria to release 
more toxins. This discharge 
can prove fatal for some patients. 
Searching for a solution, postdoctoral researcher 
Somshuvra Mukhopadhyay 
and professor Adam Linstedt, 
both within the department 
of biological sciences, discovered the effects of the metal 
manganese. Their research 
was recently published in a 
January issue of the journal 
Science.
Much of their answer came 
from searching one of the 
most basic units of life: cells. 
The Shiga toxin entering a cell 
will quietly take over and shut 
down ribosomes, the cellular 
machines that create essential 
proteins for the body. 
The researchers observed 
that the toxin would latch 
itself onto GB3, a fatty membrane found in some cells. 
The toxin would then enter 
the cell, roaming around and 
interacting with a protein 
named GPP130, which Linstedt discovered in the mid90s. From there it would visit 
other cellular regions, and 
eventually the ribosomes. 
Without ribosomes, the cell 
is deprived of important proteins; this can create major issues within the body.
Even after looking closely 
at this model, the researchers were unaware of how the 
toxin was able to successfully bypass so many parts of 
the cell. They knew that the 
GPP130 protein played an important role in the movement 
of the toxin, but they didnt 
know how to stop it. 
The original idea can be 
traced to a phone call from 
Don Smith at UC Santa Cruz, 
a toxicologist working on 
[manganese], Linstedt said 
via email. He thought he 
saw an effect of [manganese] 
on GPP130. We started a collaboration and my lab, especially Somshuvra, veri?ed and 
then extensively characterized 
the effect of manganese on 
GPP130.
That effect of manganese Linstedt spoke of was 
that the metal can cause a 
deterioration of GPP130, 
leaving the Shiga toxin all 
dressed up with no place 
to go. In addition to being 
barred from the cytoplasm, 
the toxin was displaced to 
the lysosomes where it could 
be destroyed. The treated 
cells were 3,800 times more 
protected than those without 
manganese. 
The next step was to test 
the effectiveness of manganese in mice. After formulating a safe dosage, the 
researchers exposed groups 
of mice to the Shiga toxin 
along with the manganese, 
and another group with just 
the toxin alone. Within four 
days, the mice treated with 
manganese were completely 
unharmed  in contrast to 
their stiff counterparts in the 
control group.
This discovery is promising 
for health advancements and 
brings enticing possibilities 
for future Shiga toxin treatment. Manganese is a relatively inexpensive and abundant 
metal. If the research gets past 
human trials, it could be a feasible treatment.
Researchers still need to 
check if manganese can protect against E. coli. Although 
it is a clear protector against 
pure Shiga toxins, there needs 
to be more research to see 
how the manganese affects 
the bacterium that carries the 
toxin.
Mukhopadhyay, however, 
is con?dent. It is very likely 
the manganese will also work 
against the bacteria, he said. 
He added cautiously, however, that it is by no means an 
absolute certainty.
In addition to ?guring out 
the effect on bacteria, the researchers want to test the effectiveness of manganese in 
combination with antibiotics. 
Linstedt plans to study the 
manganese after the toxin 
has already created intestinal 
damage  their success in 
mice was only a preventative 
treatment.
Human trials, while distant, are in sight. These assays will take a few months to 
a few years, Mukhopadhyay 
said, assuming that all the 
studies will go as planned.
Eight years after discovering the connection between 
GPP130 and Shiga toxin, the 
researchers have ?nally found 
an ally in manganese. Although more research must be 
done, the manganese brings 
possibilities for the millions 
suffering from Shiga toxininduced bacteria.
Courtesy of Microbe World via ?ickr
Escherichia coli bacteria and similar organisms cause illness and death, and can be dif?cult to treat due to the toxins they release. New research by 
Carnegie Mellon scientists suggests that the metal manganese can provide protection against the toxins, working as a preventative treatment against 
infection.
Courtesy of Somshuvra Mukhopadhyay
Biological sciences department researchers Somshuvra Mukhopadhyay and Adam Linstedt conducted research exploring the bene?ts of manganese 
against E. coli infections.
Daniel Tkacik/SciTech Editor
Burr Settles, a postdoctoral researcher in Carnegie Mellons machine 
learning department, created an online songwriting challenge and 
tools to assist with the songwriting process. 
[Its] a testbed 
for interactive 
machine 
learning 
technology to 
support online 
communities 
and creativity.
Burr Settles
Postdoctoral 
researcher

---------------------------------------------------

February 20, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
HOW THINGS WORKPersonal digital assistants utilize voice recognition
NIHARIKA SINGH
Staffwriter
Each year, companies announce a new 
slew of cell phone features. Personal digital 
assistants, like Siri for Apples newest iPhone 
and Iris for Android phones, have made using cell phones easier than ever before. These 
digital assistants make using a cell phone 
more intuitive: Instead of having to press 
buttons to give commands, one can simply 
talk to the cell phone as if it were another 
person.
The technology underlying these digital 
assistants has some of its roots in our campus. 
In May 2003, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency initiated a project 
called Cognitive Assistant that Learns and 
Organizes (CALO) under its Personal Assistant that Learns program. The CALO program brought researchers from several universities, including Carnegie Mellon.
Alex Rudnicky, a research professor in the 
computer science department involved with 
the project, described CALO as having revolved around the notion of having a computer system that would know about you, things 
you liked, and provide you access to information. CALO was run by SRI International, 
an independent non-pro?t research institute 
that conducts contract research for government and business agencies. In 2010, Apple 
acquired Siri from SRI International and released it as an app. 
Personal digital assistants require the use 
of two technologies: voice recognition and 
information synthesis.
Voice recognition helps the devices accurately convert human sounds into words, 
while information synthesis interprets what 
the human user needs and ?nds the information needed to complete the request.
According to the website SmartPlanet, 
voice recognition technologies have 
been around since 1940.  Scientist at Bell 
Laboratories Homer Dudley patented a 
machine called the Parallel Bandpass Vocoder, which could recognize and output 
sounds based on what it heard. The ?rst technologies of this kind could only recognize a 
few words by comparing them to signals in 
their memories and selecting the ones that 
best matched. 
Since then, the technology has become 
more ?exible and accurate, but its basic 
structure has remained the same. Because 
machines are not capable of understanding 
human speech, the best they can do is form 
reasonable guesses about what certain words 
sound like and when humans are likely to 
speak certain words.
Madison Calhoun, a sophomore chemical 
and biomedical engineering major, is a longtime iPhone user. Calhoun said that while 
the technology is an improvement over what 
came before and is very convinient, its still 
not very good at recognizing voices. However, as more people use voice recognition 
technologies, the more data these machines 
gather and the more intelligent they become.
After voice recognition, personal digital 
assistants synthesize the information that a 
user requests. This essentially involves a form 
with several slots for questions. For each slot 
you have a question, like Where do you want 
to ?y?  Rudnicky explained. 
The digital assistants software comes 
with many such forms, and attempts to ?t the 
words it hears into one of them.
For example, the software might have a 
form for looking up restaurants nearby. This 
form might have a blank space to be ?lled 
with the type of cuisine that the user wants. 
If the digital assistant hears the phrase 
Japanese food in the users request, it could 
make use of the keyword food to realize 
that the user wants to look up restaurants. 
Then, it could default to this form, ?ll in the 
missing information, and perform a search 
for local Japanese restaurants. If the form is 
incomplete, the digital assistant might ask 
questions or ask the user to provide more 
details. 
Digital assistants also continuously improve themselves by tailoring to their users; when a user tells the phone it is wrong, 
the phone remembers this and learns from 
its mistakes by ?ne tuning its algorithms to 
match the users needs. While this might 
sound long and complex, Rudnicky said that 
a lot of these things whittle down to a fairly 
simple process. 
The technology behind personal digital 
assistants is still fairly new, but one of the 
limitations Rudnicky would like to see it 
overcome is its exclusivity to smartphones. 
The machines could also be more intuitive 
and more accurately understand a wider set 
of accents and colloquialisms. Until then, 
Calhoun said that she will stick to typing 
with her ?ngers because its much faster most 
of the time.
Photo illustration by Alan Vangpat/Senior Staff
SCITECH BRIEFS
Texting affects ability to accept and interpret words
A linguist at the University 
of Calgary in Canada claims 
that texting has a negative 
impact on a persons linguistic 
ability to interpret and accept 
words. The linguist, Joan Lee, 
asked 33 university students 
questions about their reading 
habits, including text messaging, and presented them with 
both real and made-up words. 
The study found that 
people who read more traditional media such as books 
and newspapers were more 
accepting of new words, while 
those who read less but texted 
more were less accepting. 
The people who accepted 
more words did so because 
they were better able to interpret the meaning of the word 
 or tolerate the word  even 
if they didnt recognize the 
word, Lee explained in a Science Daily article.
Source: Science Daily 
Space junk janitor plans to clean up outer space
Scientists at the Swiss 
Space Center are designing a 
machine that would clean up 
space junk orbiting around 
Earth. Since 1957, nearly 
6,000 satellites have been 
launched into Earths orbit, 
but only an estimated 800 are 
still operational. The remaining satellites are classi?ed as 
space junk. 
The new machine will 
clean up this space junk by either capturing a piece of it and 
self-destructing by burning 
up in the Earths atmosphere, 
or by propelling it into Earths 
atmosphere to burn while the 
cleaning machine remains in 
space.
Source: Sky.com news, 
European Space Agency news
Study shows babies understand words at six months
A study performed by researchers at the University 
of Pennsylvania found that 
infants between six and nine 
months old can understand 
words spoken to them before 
they even learn to speak. 
The scientists showed 33 
babies aged six to nine months 
images placed side by side.
They then tracked their eye 
movements while a parent 
asked them questions such 
as, Where is the apple? The 
study found that the babies 
were more likely to ?x their 
gaze on the correct image, indicating that they understood 
how the word was associated 
with the object.
Source: Fox News
Why do some dinosaur fossils look so weird?
Many fossilized dinosaurs 
have been found in twisted 
postures with their heads 
and necks abnormally arched 
backwards. Scientists have 
always thought that this occurred from death spasms, but 
two researchers from Switzerland and Germany have recently come to the conclusion 
that these twisted con?gurations may have occurred long 
after the dinosaurs deaths. 
After experimenting with 
chicken carcasses, they found 
that a ligament in the upper 
spine released energy as surrounding muscles and other 
soft parts decayed, causing 
the neck to arch backwards. 
The scientists believe a similar 
process occurred in dinosaurs 
after death.
Source: Science Daily
Research reveals true cost of meat-based diet
Researchers at Lancaster 
University in England found 
that if everyone in the United 
Kingdom switched to a vegetarian diet, the reduced 
greenhouse gas emissions 
would be equivalent to a 50 
percent reduction in exhaust 
pipe emissions from the United Kingdoms entire passenger 
car ?eet. 
The scientists calculated 
the amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions that result from the 
production of various foods, 
and found that meat had the 
highest emissions. They concluded that switching to an 
all-vegetarian diet would decrease greenhouse gas emissions associated with food 
production by roughly 25 percent.
Source: Lancaster University 
news
Facebook hacker sentenced to eight months in jail
The hacker who breached 
Facebooks cybersecurity last 
April received an eight-month 
prison sentence this past Friday. Last April, 26-year-old 
British student Glenn Mangham stole sensitive information from Facebooks internal 
network while in his bedroom 
in York, a city in northern 
England. 
Prosecutors described the 
incident as the most serious 
case of social media hacking 
to date. Facebook, which currently boasts 845 million users, released a statement saying, We take any attempt to 
gain unauthorized access to 
our network very seriously.
Source: Time magazine
Compiled by
DANIEL TKACIK

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 20, 2012
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
CHRISTA HESTER *
Co-Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
KATIE CHIRONIS * 
Online Editor
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
MICHAEL KAHN 
Contributing Editor
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Stephanie Blotner, Connie 
Chan, Jay Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Matt 
Mastricova, Sage Po, Michael Setzer, Stephanie 
Stern
LAYOUT
Jennifer Coloma
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY *
Co-Publisher 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
Facebook Parenting father does not cross the line
Small tuition increase reasonable for new students
Correspondents remarks exhibit issue with society
North Carolina father Tommy 
Jordan posted a video on YouTube on 
Feb. 8, titled Facebook Parenting: 
For the troubled teen, of himself discussing a recent Facebook post made 
by his daughter Hannah. For the ?rst 
seven minutes of the eight-minute 
video, Jordan chastises his daughter 
for posting her complaints against 
her parents, calling it rude and disrespectful.
Citing that this wasnt the ?rst 
time she was irreverent, Jordan then 
proceeded to shoot eight bullets into 
the laptop that he bought and upgraded for his daughter.
As of last Friday, the video had 
26.5 million views. The popularity 
of this video demonstrates the frustrations that many parents feel when 
they cannot control their childrens 
behavior online. While it may seem 
rash or extreme, Jordans actions 
neither cross the line nor become 
unacceptable.
The use of a gun in the video has 
drawn the most ire from critics. According to KSLA News 12, Child 
Protective Services visited Jordans 
home in order to make sure it was a 
safe environment for his daughter.
While his daughters safety is 
the primary concern, she was never 
in danger. Jordan never physically 
threatened his daughter during the 
video, only promising that she was 
going to be grounded for an extended amount of time. His use of the 
gun, while extreme, was controlled. 
He was not in a ?t of rage while 
shooting  he very calmly shot the 
laptop.
Jordans video is a form of discipline that, while more public than 
most, does not cross the line. While 
the video may not be indicative of 
the entirety of the relationship, the 
actions in the video correspond 
appropriately to the nature of his 
daughters behavior. 
Jordans daughter should be 
more embarrassed of the comments 
in her own post than of her fathers 
reactionary video.
When everything is posted, 
blogged, shared, and tweeted, the 
disciplining of children is also becoming more public. While his methods are far from normal, Jordans actions are justi?able and indicate the 
frustrations parents have at a time 
when children have many public 
outlets.
President Jared Cohon emailed 
members of the university last week 
with two important announcements: 
the Inspire Innovation capital campaign hit the $1 billion milestone, 
and tuition for the 201213 academic year is going to be increased. The 
fundraising milestone is a major accomplishment for the university and 
its supporters, and we hope potential 
donors continue to invest in Carnegie Mellons future.
That said, most current and prospective students were more interested in the tuition increase. Although 
we regret the necessity of annual 
tuition increases due to in?ation and 
economic pressures, we support the 
Board of Trustees decision to implement a relatively modest increase in 
tuition rates next year.
Many students ?rst reaction to 
tuition increases is frustration or anger  after all, Carnegie Mellon already has one of the highest tuitions 
in the country. However, the universitys rapid rise in prominence in 
recent decades has created ?nancial 
shortfalls relative to comparable institutions. University leaders would 
prefer to fund ?nancial aid, for example, largely from the endowment, 
but they are currently unable to do 
so. Only through continued fundraising successes like the Inspire Innovation campaign will these goals 
be reached.
Additionally, we support the universitys leaders in their efforts to involve undergraduate students in the 
consideration of each years tuition. 
Michael Murphy, vice president for 
Campus Affairs, hosts an annual dinner where administrators, faculty, 
parents, and students discuss the undergraduate experience at Carnegie 
Mellon, particularly tuition and fees. 
These events, and others like them, 
should continue in future years.
University administrators are 
aware of the ?nancial and human 
costs of tuition increases, but they 
also have a responsibility to continue improving Carnegie Mellons 
educational quality and student 
experiences. 
This years modest tuition increase is an effective balance between students ?nances and the 
universitys future.
Late last month, the Pentagon released a report that stated the rate of 
sexual crimes within the U.S. Army 
 most frequently rape, sexual assault, and forcible sodomy  has 
increased by 64 percent since 2006. 
Of these reported sex crimes, 95 
percent were committed against 
women.
Liz Trotta, a correspondent for 
Fox News and the ?rst woman to cover a war for a broadcast news channel, commented last Sunday that 
these feminists  as she seems to 
call women who serve in the military 
and those who support the notion 
that these sex crimes are happening 
 have only themselves to blame. 
Now, what did they expect? 
Trotta said during a Fox News segment. These people are in close 
contact, the whole airing of this issue 
has never been done by Congress, its 
strictly been a question of pressure 
from the feminists.
Trottas statements are erroneous 
on several accounts. Her ?rst mistake 
was assuming that the 64 percent 
increase in reported sexual crimes 
was due to the steady increase in the 
number of women in the military. 
At a Pentagon press conference 
last Wednesday, Defense Secretary 
Leon Panetta rightfully pointed out 
that this statistic is only indicative 
of the number of reports of sexual 
assault within the military, not the 
actual number of assaults that have 
taken place. 
Last year, there were 3,191 reports of sexual assault within the 
military. Panetta suggests that the 
true estimate is around 19,000.
The fact that the percentage of reported sexual assaults has increased 
so dramatically over the past six years 
should be viewed as a good thing because an increase in reports does not 
mean an increase in sexual assaults. 
However, Trotta also condemned recent increases in funding to support 
programs that assist victims of sexual assault in the military. It is likely 
that without these programs, even 
more of the alleged 19,000 victims 
would be unheard, too ashamed or 
unwilling to step forward.
Trotta also fails to recognize that 
a signi?cant number of the victims 
who havent stepped forward are 
probably men. 
The armys ranks are currently 86 
percent men and 14 percent women; 
forced sodomy among men is probably much more common than the 
statistics of sexual assault reports reveal, due to the emasculation of the 
act.
Trottas remarks re?ect the larger 
societal issue of blaming rape on 
victims. 
Not only should Trotta quickly release an apology for her comments, 
but our culture as a whole needs to 
change so that victims are comfortable reporting these crimes and receiving the help they deserve from 
society.
Good behavior absent in American children
ELANA GOLDBERG
Junior Staffwriter
Generally, I think children are 
sticky and noisy, and that they spit 
a lot. Perhaps those are just the preschoolers I know, as well as the ones 
on Toddlers and Tiaras. These are 
the kids that ?t the hyper, bratty image of the typical American toddler.
Sociocultural theorists state that 
a child is raised by the values and 
traditions of its society. In the book 
Bringing Up Bb, Pamela Druckman observes the sociocultural differences in child-rearing between 
Americans and Parisians. She concludes that French parenting is superior to American parenting. I cant 
help but agree that French children 
are raised to be more polite, patient, 
and overall civilized.
Its rare to see a quiet, idyllic family enjoying a peaceful meal at Pamelas or The Cheesecake Factory. 
Kids in restaurants can be tyrants: 
They throw forks at their parents, 
race around the tables, and scream 
into the waiters ear. This scene does 
not happen in Paris. French children 
sit quietly, eat their meals, and contribute to conversation, all while 
having their napkin folded on their 
lap.
In a nutshell, French parents are 
?rm and authoritative. They do not 
cripple under the crying, screaming, 
or demanding of their children. They 
draw clear boundaries that their 
children know not to cross, so the 
obedience seems almost automatic.
It appears as though American 
children today have evolved to innately know that if they shed enough 
tears, they will eventually get their 
way. Their parents or babysitters instantly concede because no one has 
the time to endure tantrums. It all 
?ts into the frame of the busy American lifestyle.
Middle-class French parents are 
excited about their kids. They talk to 
them, explore with them, dive into 
literature with them, and enrich 
them with culture. They are granted 
several public services (such as free 
preschool programs) that allow 
them to build this special hands-on 
bond that American parents seem 
unable to form.
American parents, who dont 
have access to free preschool and 
other similar child development 
programs, are swamped with work 
and rely on daycare and nannies. It 
is impractical for American parents 
to engage in the same routine child 
outings because there is not enough 
time or energy in the day to do so.
It is not rational to expect parents to raise children by a universal 
standard, and therefore unrealistic 
to expect all children to develop the 
same. 
However, it is undeniable that 
French parenting results in children 
that are, essentially, easier to handle 
than American children. In this current state, it is not always possible 
for American parents to cut back on 
work hours or take the occasional 
day off.
So, unless there are more minutes in the day or more economically available public services, American parenting wont emulate French 
parenting anytime soon. Although 
American children are sticky, noisy, 
and prone to cause disruptions, it 
would be fantastic to have a dinner 
conversation not interrupted by a 
wailing toddler.
Taxpayer support integral to birth control argument
CARL GLAZER
Junior Staffwriter
Last week, the Obama administration backed off of its previous 
demand that religiously af?liated 
institutions  such as Catholic hospitals or Baptist colleges  provide 
birth control to its female employees 
for free. 
This previous demand would 
have lumped these institutions in 
with regular employers, but instead 
left religious institutions, such as 
churches and synagogues, alone. 
Religiously af?liated organizations 
currently receive taxpayer funding, 
yet are not required to follow the 
same laws as the secular organizations receiving government handouts. 
Religiously af?liated institutions 
have no right to force their beliefs on 
their employees or customers, when 
they are being supported by taxpayer dollars.
When Congress passed the 1965 
Civil Rights Act, it was mainly focused on eliminating racial discrimination, but it also included a clause 
about religious af?liation. Religious 
institutions that want to hire based 
on religion or expect employees to 
follow a strict moral code must explicitly state that expectation and 
demand at the time of hiring.
But what if an employee changes 
his or her views, or the views of the 
institution change? In a Catholic 
hospital, every doctor has to agree 
to follow the hospitals ethics code 
that bans all contraception, abortions, and all other procedures 
banned by the Catholic Church. 
These doctors are also forced to follow any new moral medical guidelines the Church adopts during their 
tenure.
Many times when patients need 
to be hospitalized, they do not have 
the ability to choose the hospital 
based on religious af?liation. In 
these cases, patients lose many of 
their rights, since some hospitals 
enforce a moral code that nulli?es 
many legal documents  such as 
living wills  and at times puts patients lives in danger.
No institution has the right to decide what is moral or even best for 
its employees, particularly when it 
comes to the employees own health, 
based on religious principles that 
they may not believe in. There is an 
expectation of privacy and personal 
choice under our constitution and 
currently religiously af?liated institutions are not protecting or accepting of this right. 
While there is a need to protect 
religious institutions, they should 
lose this protection when serving 
public needs and getting taxpayer 
funding. Once an institution accepts 
government funding, it should be required to adhere to all government 
regulations and laws like any other 
organization. 
Religiously af?liated institutions 
must make a choice between strictly 
enforcing their morality, and accepting government funding with all of 
the laws and regulations that come 
with such support.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
February 20, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon
Were hungry at The Tartan. So we asked,
What snack food personi?es you and why?
Visual cigarette warnings value American publics health
BRADEN KELNER
Junior Staffwriter
Due to the ill effects of smoking, 
the federal government is pushing for 
graphic images of emaciated lungs, 
decayed teeth, and stomachs after 
surgery, to be required on cigarette 
packages. 
This order, which comes from the 
Family Smoking Protection and Tobacco Control Act of 2009, allows the 
government to regulate the tobacco 
industry. 
Even though major cigarette producers are complaining that the new 
law violates the First Amendments 
freedom of speech clause, the use of 
these labels is necessary for the protection of peoples health.
When it comes to the question of 
an individuals health versus a companys freedom of speech, the health 
of the individual should be the priority. 
This is particularly noteworthy 
when the number of people who die 
each year from tobacco-related conditions averages around 443,000 per 
year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the 
article Tobacco Use: Targeting the Nations Leading Killer At A Glance 2011.
Cigarette companies are clearly 
arguing that their freedom of speech 
is being infringed upon for their own 
self-interest. 
If they truly cared about the health 
of their consumers and, in turn, the 
overall health of the nation, cigarette 
manufacturers would have already 
searched for a healthier alternative 
or been more willing to warn potential buyers of their products negative 
effects. 
Because the companies themselves made such little effort for 
change, they now have to ?ght government regulations such as these 
graphic warnings.
As noted by the Food and Drug 
Administration on its cigarette health 
warnings website, tobacco use is the 
leading cause of premature and preventable death in the United States. 
Complete freedom of speech, 
as advocated by cigarette companies, is detrimental to the welfare of 
Americans. 
This freedom contributes to a 
practice that has been deemed dangerous by various institutions, including a group of 22 states that recently announced their endorsement 
of the graphic labels.
The fact that cigarette companies 
are opposed to these new labels, 
when other countries have had these 
measures in place for years, is extremely disturbing. 
According to journalist Lara 
Salahi of ABC News, the United 
States is now playing catch-up to 
more than 30 countries that have 
similar graphic cigarette label laws 
already in place. 
There is no doubt that these labels would encourage consumers to 
quit or avoid these habits in the ?rst 
place, as they do in other countries.
Even though not all of these countries promote freedom of speech 
to the same degree that the United 
States does, the warnings required 
by these nations must be considered 
a model for the United States if the 
government hopes to signi?cantly 
curb the amount of smokers in the 
country. After all, these new labels 
more clearly convey the factual implications of smoking.
Many critics claim that if the 
gripes of the cigarette companies 
are heard before the Supreme Court, 
they will win the battle that they 
have been ?ghting for almost a year 
now. 
If this were to occur, the Supreme 
Court would clearly be showing the 
nation that the rights of large corporations are valued over the health 
and rights of individuals.
I do not know how to respond 
upon learning that Carnegie Mellon University is touting a percentage increase of only 4 percent 
in tuition for the 201213 school 
year, which will bring the tariff 
to an astounding $44,880 per annum. Sticker shock sets in for 
those of us who are old enough to 
remember college tuition of the 
dark ages of the 20th century.
I attended Carnegie Mellon after graduating from high school 
in 1974. The tuition for the year 
at that time was $2,950. My late 
mother, piano performer and 
teacher Gloria Siegle Spiegler, attended Carnegie Tech from 1939 
to 1943. When she began this wonderful period of her youth, the tuition was $150 per semester. 2012
13 tuition is more than 15 times 
that of 1974. If the prices of all essential commodities and services 
had increased by that amount, the 
American people could not afford 
to live.
I understand that most CMU 
students receive some type of ?-
nancial aid, but that does not 
negate the fact that a quality college education is generally unaffordable. One must be fabulously 
wealthy to pay sticker price to 
attend Carnegie Mellon University. 
It would be interesting to learn 
what changes would be made in 
administrator and employee compensation and other lavish university expenditures if an independent ef?ciency expert examined 
the ledger with an eye toward cutting fat.
Oren M. Spiegler
Pipeline construction could bene?t economy
KYLE HENSON 
The Keystone XL pipeline, which 
has been hotly debated the past few 
months, was denied its permit last 
month by President Barack Obama 
on the grounds that he did not have 
enough time to adequately review 
whether the pipeline would be 
safe. This was after a compromise 
between Republican and Democratic members of Congress resulted 
in a deadline for a decision on the 
pipeline.
Republican members, led by 
Speaker of the House John Boehner, 
resurrected measures late last month 
to construct the pipeline. Boehners 
goal is to give the House Committee 
on Energy and Commerce the power 
to grant the pipelines permits instead of the president. 
Construction on the pipeline 
should be approved because it would 
create a number of jobs, allow the 
U.S. to decrease its dependence on 
foreign oil, and be environmentally 
safe.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
projects that 250,000 jobs would be 
created by the pipelines construction. According to a report by ABC 
News, Boehner said that the pipeline 
would add about 100,000 jobs to our 
economy. 
More modest projections from 
TransCanada, the company trying 
to construct the pipeline, claim that 
around 20,000 jobs would be created 
directly through construction. 
This doesnt include the indirect 
economic stimulus that the construction would provide by acquiring supplies, or through the money that the 
workers would inject back into the 
economy.
Regardless of which projection 
is correct, a project this massive is 
an easy free-market solution to creating shortto medium-term jobs 
through the construction and longterm maintenance of the pipeline. 
The pipeline has the potential to 
jump-start some long-term economic 
growth. This would be a much needed shot in the arm for our stagnant 
economy.
Opponents of the pipeline claim 
on several blogs and environmental awareness websites, notably 
grist.org, that it doesnt aid U.S. energy independence because much of 
the oil going to Gulf Coast re?neries 
is set for export and not sold to U.S. 
markets. 
Though they would be correct, 
the reason that this oil is being exported is because proceeds on oil 
exports are tax free, according to 
tarsandsaction.org.
If the U.S. were to equalize tax 
rates and make the domestic market 
as competitive as the foreign market 
for oil, then the Keystone XL pipeline 
would be just half of a two-part solution to increasing energy independence. 
If tax reform is enacted, then we 
will have a gateway toward a safe 
oil partnership with Canada, a nation with which we have a history of 
friendly trade relations. As of right 
now, however, even if the U.S. were 
to enact this tax reform, we still 
wouldnt have developed the domestic oil resources needed to be independent. This is why development 
of the pipeline would help give the 
United States options in the future if 
we want to promote energy independence.
The biggest objection to the Keystone XL pipeline is its environmental 
impact. The pipelines route would 
go through the Ogallala Aquifer, 
which provides drinking water and 
agricultural support for many in the 
Midwest and hosts a large wildlife 
population.
However, the pipeline is the 
most technologically advanced and 
safest pipeline in the world, according Rep. Ed Whit?eld (RKy.), a 
member of the House Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. TransCanada 
has designed it to have 57 improvements on U.S. standard safety requirements. 
In addition, there are 200,000 
miles of comparable pipeline in the 
U.S. that have managed to operate 
with little or no harm to the environment.
The pipeline would help the U.S. 
economy in many ways without a 
large environmental impact. Congress needs to approve its construction for the economic security of our 
country.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Juan Fernandez/Staff
Juan Fernandez/Staff
Nick Gasabarro 
H&SS Undecided
First-year
SunChips, because.
LETTER TO THE EDITORTuition too costly for students
Alex Lam
Computer Science
Sophomore
Two-year-old Smartfood popcorn 
thats been under a cushion of a 
couch. No reason.
Ian Hartwig
MechE
First-year
Nutella and Wheat Thins, 
because its the most amazing 
snack ever. And a glass of milk.
Amanda Ko
Computer Science
First-year
Ice cream, because Im really 
cool.
Jason Yoder
Percussion Performance
First-year
Goldfish, because of the silly 
smile.

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 20, 2012
Tartans basketball faces Emory and Rochester at home
Mens basketball tops Emory EaglesWomen sti?e Yellowjackets sting
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
After several close games 
that ended in defeat, the 
Tartans ?nally pulled out a 
clutch victory against the favored Emory University Eagles on Friday. With the ?nal 
seconds of the game ticking 
away, sophomore guard Sean 
Brophy hit a game-winning 
three-point shot. The game 
was tied at 79 points, but Brophys shot gave the Tartans a 
8279 lead and the victory 
with 0.6 seconds left. 
The Tartans have lost three 
close games since Jan. 15, but 
they ?nally exhibited composure in the clutch. 
We focused on not beating ourselves. In late game 
situations, we emphasized 
knowing the situations, being 
careful with the ball, and not 
always taking the ?rst option 
on offense, said sophomore 
guard Rashaun Riley.
Senior forward Joe Kromka led the way with 18 points. 
Sophomore forward Christian Manoli and senior John 
Duhring put together solid 
stat lines. Manoli put in 17 
points and four assists while 
Duhring added 15 points, 
eight rebounds, and four 
assists.
But Brophys only ?eld goal 
of the game was the biggest 
for the underdog Tartans.  
They made their free 
throw and Coach decided 
not to call a timeout, said 
sophomore guard Marshall 
Massengale, who has been 
on the injured list for the last 
two weeks recovering from 
a concussion. Christian got 
the ball, drove to the left side. 
He drew two defenders and 
kicked it out to Sean. The rest 
was history. 
The Tartans shooting was 
excellent, hitting 48.4 percent 
from the ?eld and 50 percent 
of their threes. Additionally, 
they hit 93.8 percent from the 
free-throw line, clobbering 
the Eagles 59.1 percent mark.
On Sunday, the Tartans 
faced another conference foe, 
the University of Rochester 
Yellowjackets. Despite digging out of a 14-point gap, the 
Tartans could not pull a victory, losing 8174.
Just past the halfway mark 
of the second half, the Tartans were down 5238. Coach 
Tony Wingen then called for a 
full-court press, which sti?ed 
the Yellowjackets, and the 
Tartans made their run.
We were consistent with 
our press defense. We also 
tried to give as many ball 
screens as possible and run 
pick and rolls for our big 
men, Riley said.
The constant attack in the 
paint opened up the ?oor for 
Carnegie Mellon, and a three 
by Riley tied the game with 
6:52 left. 
The Tartans were up by as 
many as ?ve points, after a 
three by junior guard Andre 
Moore and a ?oater by Riley. 
But late-game turnovers did 
not help, as the Yellowjackets 
regained the lead and held on 
for the win.
Riley led the way with 18 
points on seven-out-of-nine 
shooting. Brophy had a double-double with 12 points and 
11 rebounds. The Tartans put 
together a solid team-scoring 
effort, with seven players 
scoring six or more, shooting 
53.2 percent as a team.
Their play this past weekend brings the Tartans to 
816 for the season, and 310 
in University Athletic Association play.
KATIE KNOX
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
womens basketball team was 
dealt another loss at home 
last Friday night. The Tartans 
hosted the Emory University 
Eagles in their second and 
?nal meeting of the season. 
The Eagles extended their 
winning streak to four games 
with Fridays 8360 win, 
while the Tartans have now 
lost three games straight. 
The game looked promising early on, as the Tartans 
had a quick 90 lead from 
three-pointers by ?rst-year 
guards Chandler Cau?eld and 
Gabrielle West. The Eagles 
full-court press rattled Carnegie Mellon and hindered their 
offensive rhythm. However, 
the Tartans managed to break 
through and ?nd some open 
spots at the basket.
Carnegie Mellon maintained the lead for most of the 
?rst half, until the Eagles went 
on a 150 run to halt the Tartans strong start. With 6:18 
remaining in the half, Emory 
took a 2221 point lead. The 
Tartans could not regain the 
lead for the rest of the game. 
The Tartans tried to battle 
their way back in the second half, but trading baskets 
with the Eagles did not close 
the gap. The Tartans needed 
stops on defense, but offensive rebounds gave the Eagles 21 extra shots to further 
extend their lead. Although 
Carnegie Mellon handled the 
Eagles full-court press in the 
?rst half, it got the best of 
the team in the second. They 
turned the ball over 17 times 
in the second half.
In the second half, we 
werent guarding the arc on 
defense as well in the second 
half, and had no inside-out 
game on the offensive end, 
?rst-year guard Aspen McKeever said.
The Tartans ?nished the 
contest with four players in 
double ?gures. West led the 
team with 14 points, and 
sophomore guard Jacquie 
Shaw added 13 points. McKeever and junior forward Emily Peel pitched in 11 and 10 
points, respectively.
I think we just need to 
focus on playing together on 
both the offensive and defensive ends, as well as running 
through the offense and getting good looks for everyone, 
McKeever said.
Yesterday, the Tartans 
hosted the University of Rochester, the No. 11 team in Division III, winning the contest 
by a ?nal score of 6762. The 
win pushed the Tartans record to 915 for the season 
and 310 in the University 
Athletic Association conference. 
The Tartans held on to a 
?ve-point lead with clutch 
free-throw shooting. The 
Yellowjackets senior center 
Jodie Luther had two clutch 
buckets late in the game, but 
free throws by Cau?eld and 
Shaw helped seal the victory.
Yellowjackets junior guard 
Kristyn Wright air-balled a 
three at the end of the game, 
but Shaw was able to rebound 
the miss and run out the 
clock.
Peel poured in 20 points 
on only 11 shots and seven 
rebounds. Shaw added 17 
points, eight rebounds, and 
?ve assists. McKeever also 
scored in double digits with 
14 points.
We didnt do anything 
differently to prepare for this 
game, we just had to play as 
a team, West said. We had 
great intensity for all 40 minutes of the game.
The Tartans ?nal game of 
the season is this Saturday. 
Tipoff is at 3 p.m. in Skibo 
Gymnasium. 
Swimming and diving at UAA
SPORTS COMMENTARY
The story of Linderella running 
wild for the New York Knicks  
CARINEH GHAFAFIAN
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
swimming and diving team 
traveled to Cleveland, Ohio, 
last Wednesday and stayed 
through Saturday for the University Athletic Association 
(UAA) Championship meet. 
The mens team took ?fth 
place in the conference, while 
the women came in third 
overall.
Swimming in his ?rst season for the Tartans, ?rst-year 
Anton Razanav had a strong 
performance. Razanav won 
the 200-yard backstroke on 
Saturday; his time of 1:51.53 
was not only a season best, 
but an NCAA qualifying time.
This season, as a rookie, I 
want to make a good name for 
myself in Division III swimming as well as in the UAA. If 
my times allow me passage to 
nationals in March, then the 
only thing I can hope for is 
to improve even further. But 
I am focusing on one thing at 
a time in order to maintain a 
clear view of my goals, Razanav said.
The Tartans next-best 
?nish came from junior Daniel Glaser-Garbrick ?nishing second in the 200-yard 
butter?y with a provisional 
time of 1:51.42. Following Glaser-Garbrick, junior 
Brandon Yee also placed in 
the same race, coming in 
fourth place at 1:53.00.
With a personal goal to 
make it to the NCAA meet 
this year, sophomore Austin 
Bohn came out strong at the 
UAA meet, winning the consolation ?nal of the 200-yard 
breaststroke in 2:08.20.
At the deeper end of the 
pool, senior divers Eli Fatsi 
and Mike Alexovich ?nished sixth and seventh on 
the one-meter board with 
437.70 and 400.40 points, 
respectively.
For the womens swimming team, ?rst-year Debra 
Lin won the consolation ?nal 
of the 200-yard backstroke 
at 2:06.99, a season best for 
her. First-year Kelley Sheehan 
also placed in the same event, 
?nishing in third place with 
2:08.40.
Sophomore Soleil Phan, 
who has been swimming since 
she was seven, swam in the ?-
nals of the 100-yard freestyle 
and ?nished sixth with a time 
of 52.78.
Junior Breanna Stillo followed closely behind, coming 
in seventh with 53.23 in the 
same race. Speaking about 
her experiences and goals, 
she said, It was an awesome experience being part 
of the ?rst womens relay to 
go to Nationals last year, so 
it would be great to send an 
even bigger group of people 
there this year.
Junior Price Kinney ?nished in fourth place in the 
200-yard breaststroke with a 
time of 2:24.59, a season-best 
time for her. Sophomore Tatiana Duchak made the ?nals 
with a preliminary time of 
2:28.50, but was disquali?ed 
during the ?nal run.
At her last UAA meet, senior Hannah Gonzalez swam 
in the consolation ?nals for 
the 200-yard butter?y, ?nishing strong in third place with 
a time of 2:10.87.
The men and women who 
made an NCAA provisional 
mark this season are waiting 
to hear if they made the draw 
for the National championship meet that will be held in 
Indianapolis, Ind., in March.
CARL GLAZER
Junior Staffwriter
Linsanity is sweeping the 
nation. The story of Jeremy 
Lin, the undrafted New York 
Knicks guard from Harvard 
University, has exploded in 
the media since his performance on Feb. 4 against the 
New Jersey Nets. He is the ultimate underdog. Two weeks 
ago, he was unsure of his job 
security; now hes the Eastern Conference Player of the 
Week. He has set the record 
for the most points scored in 
a players ?rst six starts, and 
he single-handedly put the 
Knicks back into playoff contention when they were falling by the wayside.
Lin led the Palo Alto High 
School basketball team to a 
California state championship, but he wasnt recruited 
to a single Division I basketball program. He went to 
Harvard University, where 
the academic competition is 
strong but the athletic prowess is not. Lin played against 
substandard competition but 
still solidi?ed himself as a 
good college player.
He was undrafted out of 
college, but was signed last 
year by the Golden State Warriors and struggled to stay on 
the team. After getting cut by 
the Warriors, he was signed 
by the Houston Rockets and 
cut before he was able to play 
a single game. Ironically, Lin 
has since blossomed with the 
Knicks.
Lins rise to fame could not 
have come at a better time 
for the NBA. With the end of 
the NFL season, the NBA was 
ready to capture the interest of the American public. 
Basketball fans are always 
aware of the up-and-coming 
NBA stars before the players 
are even out of high school 
 Miami Heat forward LeBron James high school games 
were broadcast on ESPN.
Typically, the big stories 
involving young players center around them failing to 
reach their potential. That is 
why Lins story is much more 
enthralling. He came out of 
nowhere and captivated the 
sports world, both in America 
and abroad. In the U.S., Lins 
jerseys have become a leading seller in sports apparel. 
Globally, multiple Asian television providers now carry 
Knicks games, so the ?rst 
Taiwanese-American NBA player can be broadcast across the 
world.
Lin got his shot in the worst 
of situations. He was pulled 
off the bench as a last-ditch 
effort by Knicks coach Mike 
DAntoni to save his ?oundering team. The Knicks were 
desperate for a solid guard 
since Chauncey Billups, now 
with the Los Angeles Clippers, 
left the team last season. Before Lin, the Knicks were in 
bad shape. After starting the 
season 64, the Knicks lost six 
straight and hadnt reached 
a .500 record, until Lin and 
their subsequent winning 
streak.
He has played incredibly 
well the past two weeks, but 
his scoring pace is going to be 
nearly impossible to maintain. 
With the return of all-star forward Carmelo Anthony, Lins 
game has to change. With Anthony averaging over 18 shots 
a game, Lin will be forced to 
be a more balanced point 
guard than a high-volume 
scorer.
Its important to realize 
that Lin is only human. While 
he was scoring the most 
points for any NBA player 
through his ?rst six games, 
he was also shooting far too 
many shots. Lin has to accept 
that most nights he will be 
the Knicks third-best scoring 
option. He showed signs of 
progress in his ?rst game with 
all-star teammate forward 
Amare Stoudemire, taking 
on six shots but dishing out 
13 assists in 26 minutes of 
playing time. That night, Lin 
showed the kind of weapon he 
can be for his team. With his 
ability to drive to the basket, 
Lin can draw in defenders, 
opening up his teammates 
for uncontested dunks and 
three-pointers.
Lin has been a godsend for 
New York, but fans must realize its not his scoring ability 
that makes him great: Its his 
ability to open up the ?oor. He 
wont average 25 points per 
game for the rest of his career. 
But eight assists per game is an 
attainable mark. The quicker 
Lin, the Knicks, and the public can understand this, the 
faster we can stop celebrating 
Lin for the high-volume scorer 
he has been, and embrace the 
amazing point guard he can 
someday become.
Kate Groschner/Staff
First-year guard Chandler Cau?eld is second on the team in assists with 
48 this season.
File photo by Jennifer Coloma 
Sophomore Austin Bohn won the 200-yard consolation this weekend.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Sophomore guard Sean Brophys last-second three lifted the Tartans 
over the Emory University Eagles, 8279.

---------------------------------------------------

02.20.12 Volume 106, Issue 19
Oscar-nominated shorts
Short films show wide variety of     
creative influences  B6HAIR

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out the latest installment of Apartment 
4H.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three movies and the 
Academy Awards.
7
Paperhouse
WRCT discusses managing hype and building 
relationships with artists.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
CO-PUBLISHER Christa Hester CO-PUBLISHER Patrick Gage Kelley EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Courtesy of Christian Fleming
8
34910
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about 
roommates and girlfriends.
3
...diversions
...this week only
SMBCZach Weiner, author of Saturday Morning 
Breakfast Cereal, visits Carnegie Mellon.3
Jazz NightsInterval Monday and Space Exchange offer 
weekly jazz performances.4
From the TopNPR program records young musicians show 
live in Pittsburgh.5
Short FilmsA review of films competing for this years LiveAction and Animated Short Film Oscars.6
Film FestivalArtHang and Film Club present student films at 
The Frame Gallery.7
Hair ReviewDrama students put on compelling 
performance of classic musical.8
ScotchnSodaStudents present a new take on a Greek classic, 
Eurydice.9
Did You Know?
Fifty years ago, the International Club hosted a 
Mardi Gras-themed masked ball.
10
Puzzles
Test your skills with this weeks sudoku and 
hexadecimal sudoku.
13
Horoscopes
Discover your future through this weeks 
horoscopes.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh.
15
Reading
The Creative Writing Student Series begins 
with Hearts (And Other Organs).
10

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 02.20.123
SMBC author comes to CMU
Zach Weiner discusses new book, connects with audience 
Author and illustrator of the popular daily webcomic 
Saturday Morning Breakfast Cereal Zach Weiner 
came to Carnegie Mellon last Thursday to give a 
lecture in McConomy Auditorium, sponsored by 
the Activities Board. The content of his lecture, 
from a preview of his new book to a Q & A session, 
solidified the reason why his work is so popular on 
campus.
While McConomy wasnt packed with attendees, 
the enthusiasm that accompanied Weiners entrance 
made up for it. Weiner greeted the crowd, adorned 
in a Carnegie Mellon scarf and socks with sandals.
His lecture consisted mainly of two parts. The first 
involved him presenting an Adventure of Your 
Own Choosing, plotted out in a Microsoft Word 
document and projected for everyone to read. It 
is the current version of a book he hopes to have 
written, illustrated, and published in a few months.
Without giving too much away, the book involves 
the reader choosing among various vocations, 
dealing with interesting people and places named 
after Czech curse words, and making heinous 
decisions. When confronted with a future career 
path, the crowd, of course, chose for the protagonist 
to be an engineer.
This is unhygienic, even for the engineering 
department, Weiner said, quoting a passage from 
the book detailing a gruesome fight scene. He knew 
his audience too well.
It was different from most lectures, said Lauren 
Ruoff, a sophomore in the College of Fine Arts. 
While the Q & A was usual, it was cool that he had 
the book preview.
Nerdy and humorous references abounded as 
Weiner presented the rest of the novel, and 
his comedic nature really exhibited itself. In a 
community like Carnegie Mellon, often deemed 
socially awkward even by its own students, such 
humor thrives because of its geeky perspective.
After the Adventure of Your Own Choosing 
portion, Weiner then proceeded to the Q & A portion 
of the lecture. While the advance preview of his new 
book was funny and entertaining, this part of the 
evening was much more interesting.
Weiner usually focuses his comics on the topics of 
science, math, love, religion, history, and phallic 
humor. When asked about the prominence of 
nihilism in his comics, Weiner responded, Nihilism 
is funny. Its kind of depressing, but its fun to put in 
comics.
His ability to connect to the audience had less to 
do with the subject matter of his comics and works, 
and more to do with his genuine persona. He 
was just a very cool guy, said Karl DeStefano, a 
sophomore physics major. He was very nice. Before 
the show he was doing drawings and talking to 
people. In many ways, Weiner could have been a 
student at Carnegie Mellon. He was very attuned, 
both in appearance and speech, to the populace of 
the university.
During the talk, Weiner also described his writing 
process, often sending ideas to a joke congress 
comprised of his friends and wife before they 
become comics. When a comic that his wife did 
not find funny becomes popular and receives a 
lot of views, Weiner described it as, Winning the 
relationship. He added, Im way ahead.
Weiner really connected with the audience 
throughout his lecture. While the book preview was 
humorous, it was his casual talk with the audience 
that really shone through. Its how his perspective 
comes through in person and in his work, in 
addition to the subject matter and style of his 
comedy, that made this lecture memorable.
Josh Smith | Forum Editor
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
My roommate got a new 
girlfriend, and I have 
mixed feelings about it. 
Hes never in the room 
anymore, which is great. 
On the other hand, I 
hate seeing him happy. 
He used to be full of 
contempt and rage, but 
now hes mellowed, full 
only of hatred and anger. 
Is there a way I can keep 
him out of the room and 
unhappy?
Thanks,
Need Original Tips, 
Laughter Of Neighbor 
Encourages Lonesome 
Yearnings
Dear NOT LONELY,
It may seem like a smart 
idea to sabotage his new 
relationship, but if they break 
up hell probably spend a 
few weeks moping around 
your room, complaining 
about the noise, your mess 
on the floor, and his abject 
despair. And thats much 
worse than having him out of 
the house and happy.
The key is to keep them 
together and to make him 
unhappy in other ways. For 
instance, if she has a friend 
he hates, suggest they go 
on double dates together. 
Convince her to take him 
clothes shopping. If he 
wants to look good in front 
of her, you can use that to 
get him to do stuff for you. 
Just remember: Its more 
important that you have the 
room to yourself.
Dont worry about 
your own encroaching 
loneliness,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I just got a new girlfriend 
and Im spending a lot of 
time with her, so I havent 
been hanging out with my 
roommate as much. Its 
pretty clear hes getting 
jealous and lonely, but 
wont admit it. How do I 
get him to open up?
Sincerely,
Cant Appreciate 
Roommates Position
Dear CARP,
Well, the first thing you 
need to do is rub it in his 
face. Really let him know 
how happy you are in 
your relationship. Let him 
stew in his envy. At some 
point, itll boil over and hell 
do something passiveaggressive, like writing 
about you in his newspaper 
column. Then, get him 
drunk. Hell probably make 
a tearful, heartfelt confession 
about his feelings. You can 
hold this over his head for a 
long time.
If that doesnt work, try 
bringing your girlfriend 
around your apartment for 
visits. The three of you could 
all hang out together! He 
definitely wont hate that. 
Maybe the two of them 
could become besties. You 
could even try to set him up 
with her friends. Im sure he 
wont mind your unsolicited 
intrusion into his personal life 
one bit.
Or just take him to a bar 
to cry into some whiskey,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About roommates and girlfriends
SMBC author and illustrator Zach Weiner gave an 
entertaining lecture to a small but enthusiastic 
crowd last week.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 02.20.12
A city that used to be a veritable hotbed of American 
Jazz, Pittsburgh has seen what could be described as 
a process of jazz atrophy. Cultural institutions like the 
August Wilson Center and the Manchester Craftsmens 
Guild feed off a legacy of jazz, not a vibrant scene.
Traditional venues, like CJs in the Strip District, have 
strict age restrictions (CJs is closed to patrons younger 
than 30) and prevent jazz from being experienced across 
generations. Additionally, WDUQ, formerly Pittsburghs 
only jazz radio station, changed to an NPR news station 
last year. There are simply not enough lively hubs for the 
cultivation of an innovative jazz scene in Pittsburgh.
In light of this seemingly atrophied jazz environment, 
two events in Pittsburgh reveal that the local 
contemporary jazz scene is rekindling: On Mondays, 
AVA Lounge in East Liberty hosts Interval Monday, and 
the Thunderbird Cafe in Lawrenceville hosts Space 
Exchange on Tuesdays.
On what is considered the weeks dead night for 
entertainment in Pittsburgh, AVA Lounge offers one of 
the hottest jazz jams, incorporating silent ?lm projections 
and an open stage. The weekly session was founded by 
pianist Howie Alexander in July 2007, and is now known 
as the premier event for jazz music in Pittsburgh due to 
the local and nationally recognized talent it attracts.
Typically, the sessions consist of two sets. The ?rst set 
belongs to the Interval Trio (Alexander, Paul Thompson, 
and James Johnson III), while the second set opens 
up the stage to musicians in the audience. The jam 
session features both jazz standards and original 
compositions, and resident DJ J. Malls (also known as 
Jason Molyneaux) spins classic jazz vinyl during breaks. 
A documentary-style web series, called The Interval Trio 
& Friends, is currently being produced that focuses on 
the lives and sessions of the musicians.
In contrast to the Interval Monday jam sessions, 
Space Exchange at the Thunderbird Cafe is marked 
by an approach that resembles a New York City 
artist residency, something rarely seen in Pittsburgh. 
Saxophonist Ben Opie, drummer Dave Throckmorton, 
guitarist Colter Harper, bassist Matt Booth, and 
guitarist/drummer Chris Parker are the core members 
of Space Exchange, and they collectively oversee the 
programming for the evenings.
In 2011, the group decided to approach Thunderbird 
Cafe owner John Pergal for a shot at a weekly residency. 
Because Pergal has supported the groups past efforts, 
this collaboration seemed natural. However, the group 
has actively argued that Space Exchange neither be 
billed as a jazz event nor as a jam session. As a result, 
patrons wont ?nd musicians casually strolling in to 
display their skills in a speci?c genre. Rather, they will 
?nd a variety of ensembles associated with the core 
members, rotating in and out of the Thunderbird Cafe, 
waltzing across the boundaries of styles.
Aiming to develop a lasting presence in Pittsburgh, 
the group draws on the public interest in some of 
the collectives established bands like Opie and 
Throckmortons Thoth Trio, Harpers Rusted Root, and 
Opies audacious free jazz orchestra, Opek.
Given the history of Pittsburghs local jazz scene, events 
like Interval Monday and Space Exchange give hope for 
a playful and innovative scene in the future. As it stands, 
jazz enthusiasts need not fear a continued atrophy of the 
local scene. Jazz is happening; now it is up to the 
audiences to continue sharing the experience.
Future performances at Space Exchange will 
feature Opie performing the works of American 
composers Thelonius Monk, Anthony Braxton, and 
Ornette Coleman, alongside bassist Jeff Grubbs and 
Throckmortons Book Exchange.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
Lively jazz nights rekindle ?ame in Pittsburgh
Interval Mondays and Space Exchange promise vivacious weekly performances
Juan Fernandez | Staff

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.20.125
Paperhouse
On hype
Last October, M83s sixth album, Hurry Up, Were 
Dreaming, was released. After months of build-up, a pretty 
good single, and a music video about runaway telekinetic 
kids who throw a super-hip party in a warehouse (or 
something like that), critics and fans alike devoured it.
As a huge M83 fan, I was just as pumped as everyone else 
for the supposedly epic double-album that would forever 
change the way that I would perceive music. After listening 
to the album a couple of times, waiting for that moment 
of spiritual awakening, I realized the awful truth of Hurry 
Up, Were Dreaming: It was just another M83 album. A 
very good M83 album, but an album that was hyped to an 
absurd extent.
Due to this hype, it was impossible for me to tell if I 
genuinely liked the album. I eventually got so sick of all the 
praise that I started to hate it on principle. On the ?ip side, 
when my friend introduced me to M83s debut album a 
couple years ago, I didnt have some exterior force telling 
me how I should react to it. I felt like I was truly discovering 
something, building a relationship with the music.
This relationship-building is why there are so many 
venerated classics that continue to be played to this day: 
Pink Floyds The Wall, Led Zeppelins Led Zeppelin IV, 
pretty much everything The Beatles ever put out. But our 
inability to detach ourselves from this relationship and 
our continued insistence on publicly extolling them has 
prevented anyone who came after their time from building 
a real, individualized relationship with the music.
So if you have an album you really love or a band that you 
would give anything to see live that you just have to show 
people, check yourself. Suggest it and let your friends 
discover it for themselves. The only way that good music 
will survive the generation it was composed for is if a new 
generation can view it as genuinely meaningful, and not 
just as a facet of culture.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Gonjasu?  MU.ZZ.LE 
The Black Keys  El Camino
Brain Fruit  1.1
Jakob Olausson  Morning & Sunrise
Guided By Voices  Lets Go Eat The Factory 
Sigur Ros  Inni
Roll the Dice  In Dust
El Rego  El Rego
Lamb of God  Resolution
The Jezabels  Prisoner
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
NPR features young musicians
From The Top records episode at Carnegie Music Hall
Making their way to their seats at Carnegie Music 
Hall last Tuesday night, the shows attendees must 
have wondered if theyd come to the right place 
to see From The Top, an NPR program hosted by 
renowned pianist Christopher ORiley. A showcase 
for musicians under age 18, From The Top was in 
Pittsburgh for a live recording.
The stage looked more like it was set up for a 
three-ring circus than for a live taping of a radio 
show: Along with the music stand and grand piano, 
there were four microphones on stage right, a high 
wooden chair and small table on stage left, and 
a curious black box covered with a black cloth. 
One could almost visualize jugglers dancing about 
the stage and the young performers playing their 
instruments while dangling from trapezes.
The black box ended up being an actual magic trick: 
The shows announcer, Joanne Robinson, placed 
a red suitcase on the black box and proceeded to 
pull out an assortment of plastic ?owers and plant 
them in a vase on the small table. The box then 
got up and walked off stage  there had been a 
woman handing Robinson ?owers from the box. 
Other theatrics included one of the shows producers 
cartwheeling on stage and an announcement that 
coughing during the music is punishable by death.
Once the actual recording began, a euphonium 
soloist was the ?rst to perform. It was certainly an 
odd opener, but 17-year-old Grant Jameson made the 
instrument  a mini-tuba of sorts  sound like a 
lilting, brassy bassoon. The versatility he presented 
was astonishing.
What truly made From The Top different from a 
classical recital were the interviews. After every 
young musicians performance, ORiley would 
chat with him or her at the microphones on stage 
right. These interviews seemed to be planned out 
in advance, but they were still interesting. They 
served to let the audience know a little more about 
the young musicians, while adding some comedic 
entertainment.
Two of the acts  17-year-old violist and 
Pittsburgher Daniel Orson, and the Temple 
University Music Prep Honors String Quartet  
were very good, but paled in comparison to the two 
best musicians of the night.
Aleksandr Sasha Voinov, a home-schooled 
14-year-old from the riverside Pittsburgh suburb of 
Sewickley, has been arranging and composing his 
own music since he was six years old. He gifted 
the audience with a ?ashy performance of Frdric 
Chopins Polonaise, the Romantic composers lets 
rock out piece for piano. Quite the little showman, 
Voinov took moments to recoil from the piano like a 
cat crouching to pounce, so that he could have the 
momentum to pound out some of the more exciting 
chords.
During the interview, Voinov revealed that his 
showmanship tends to control how he presents his 
performances. For example, last year he arranged 
a version of Frosty the Snowman for piano and 
orchestra, and performed it with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra  dressed as a snowman. He 
?nished the interview by going back to the piano, 
donning a frizzy black wig, and playing his own jazzy 
arrangement of Niccol Paganinis famous Caprice 
No. 24.
The shows peak, however, was violinist Kelly 
Talim, a 16-year-old Illinois resident and student of 
Carnegie Mellon music professor Cyrus Forough. 
She performed Bel Bartoks Second Rhapsody with 
seeming effortlessness. Judging her solely by that 
performance, one could rightfully say that shes 
bound to have a successful career.
The show itself wasnt ?awless: While interviewing 
Jameson, who was talking about how he comes from 
a long line of brass players, ORiley made the remark, 
I enjoy a line of Jamesons, now and again. There 
was also some feedback during the interview with 
the Temple University Quartet, so part of it had to 
be re-recorded. However, the phenomenal young 
musicians de?nitely made up for the inherent pitfalls 
of a live radio show.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
From The Top, and all of NPRs shows, air on WQED 
89.3 FM.
This episode of From the Top was recorded at 
Carnegie Music Hall.
Courtesy of Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

6film
pillbox 02.20.12
Regent Square Theatre has been showing the 
2012 Oscar-nominated short ?lms since Feb. 10, in 
preparation for the Academy Awards on Feb. 26. This 
years Oscar-nominated shorts showcase a variety of 
creative in?uences in the ?eld. While some are certainly 
stronger than others, all of the contenders have a unique 
story, style, and perspective.
Live-Action
Pentecost, an Irish ?lm directed by Peter McDonald and 
Eimear OKane, follows the story of Damian, a young boy 
who is forced to serve as an altar boy when he would 
rather be out playing football (soccer). This comedic ?lm 
portrays Damians tough decision between conforming 
to what his parents want him to do and following 
his heart. Pentecost had the audience laughing all 
throughout the credits and into the opening of the next 
?lm.
Raju is a German and Indian ?lm directed by Max Zhle 
and Stefan Gieren. The story shows a German couple 
that travels to India to adopt a young boy. The couple 
faces a moral dilemma when they ?nd out that the 
child they are adopting was not abandoned, but rather 
kidnapped. The ?lm was well made and featured an 
excellent soundtrack, but the nuances of the story would 
have been better in a feature-length ?lm with more 
background about the couples relationship.
The two ?lms that followed, The Shore and Time 
Freak, were enjoyable but forgettable. The Shore was 
the longest of the short ?lms and seemed to drag on. 
Despite its heartwarming message of making peace 
with regrets and facing a troubled past, the ?lm lacked 
any compelling reason to pay attention for 31 minutes. 
Time Freak is an American ?lm about an inventor who 
creates a time machine, but gets caught up traveling 
around yesterday. The short was funny and the audience 
seemed to enjoy it, but its cuteness also made it seem a 
bit amateur.
The last ?lm for this category was Tuba Atlantic. 
Directed by Hallvar Witz, this Norwegian short follows 
the ?nal days in the life of Oskar, a 70-year-old man who 
is going to die in six days. He is faced with the challenge 
of making peace with his brother before he dies, and is 
only able to do this by sending huge sound waves across 
the Atlantic Ocean from a giant tuba that he and his 
brother built when they were younger. The ?lm brought 
tears to my eyes three separate times in 25 minutes, 
and it was the only ?lm in the Live-Action category that 
received applause from the audience at the end.
Animation
The ?lms in the Animation category were less 
impressive as a whole than the live-action ?lms.
Dimanche/Sunday, a Canadian ?lm directed by Patrick 
Doyon, followed the story of a familys Sunday routine 
and a young boys imagination. The animation was 
cute and the music was excellent, but by the end the 
audience was left underwhelmed.
A Morning Stroll shows the story of a New Yorker 
who walks past a city-savvy chicken on his morning 
promenade. The scene is shown three separate times  
once set in 1959, once in 2009, and once in 2059. Each 
scene has a different animation style, which made it one 
of the more visually interesting animated shorts.
Wildlife, directed by Amanda Forbis and Wendy Tilby, 
follows the story of a young Englishman who travels 
to the Canadian frontier to become a cowboy, only to 
?nd that he doesnt quite ?t into his dream life. His 
life is compared to that of a comet throughout the ?lm, 
and in the end, the young man sees a comet in the sky 
and freezes to death in a snowy ?eld. The story was 
interesting, but the ?lm seemed to drag on for much 
longer than 13 minutes.
The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore is 
an allegory about the healing powers of books. The 
animation was sophisticated and impressive, and the 
message of the story felt very relevant when it seems 
like few people read novels anymore. The ?lm was a bit 
cheesy at times, but it was enjoyable and delivered a 
poignant message.
The last ?lm of the evening, La Luna, was a comingof-age fable about a young boy who helps his father 
and grandfather clean stars off the moon every night. 
The story was well written and humorous, and left the 
audience with a positive message about ?nding oneself.
Predictions
While all of the short ?lms deserve their spots as 
nominees, two ?lms stood out. Tuba Atlantic will win 
in the Live-Action category. The story was beautiful 
and the ?lm was expertly produced. Humorous and 
heartwarming, it was impossible to walk away from the 
theater without making some sort of positive comment 
about the ?lm. The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. 
Morris Lessmore will win in the Animation category. 
It was perfect: perfect story, perfect animation, perfect 
message, perfect for the award.
Allison Cosby | Pillbox Editor
The Oscar-nominated shorts are showing at Regent 
Square Theatre through Feb. 23; the Academy Awards 
will take place on Sunday, Feb. 26.
A review of Oscar-nominated short ?lms
Live-action, animated short ?lms provide varied perspectives on growing up, making peace
The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore is 
a heartwarming story of healing after a tornado.
Tuba Atlantic is the story of an old man who must 
make peace with long-lost brother before he dies.
Courtesy of IMDb
Courtesy of FilmAf?nity

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 02.20.127
On Friday, The Frame was transformed into a sleek 
display of video art. The Frame Film Festival, a combined 
effort of Carnegie Mellons student organizations 
ArtHang and Film Club, displayed the diverse and 
eclectic ?lm work of students.
The show was largely formulated by sophomore art 
majors and ArtHang heads Caroline Record and Michael 
Bennett; Claire Gustavson, a sophomore Bachelor of 
Humanities and Arts student in art and philosophy; 
and Film Club president and senior art major Benjamin 
Welmond. Sophomore Bachelor of Computer Science 
and Arts student Andrew Bueno, digital media manager 
for ArtHang, was the technical head who worked 
behind the scenes and really got the show on the road, 
Gustavson said.
The downstairs portion of The Frame was dedicated to 
the work produced by the Film Club since 2010. These 
narrative pieces included 2010 works like Zombie 
College: The Musical, 2011 short group projects 
from Film Club, and more professional pieces like the 
trailer for Static Shock, a fan ?lm by senior directing 
major Stefan Dezil, which will be released in March. 
Rows of metal chairs sat facing the projection, and the 
notoriously creepy underground space of The Frame was 
transformed into a theater.
Talia Levin, a ?rst-year Bachelor of Humanities and Arts 
student in directing and creative writing, explained her 
experience in Film Club while watching the projected 
shorts downstairs. All that you really need to make a 
movie is people who want to do it.... Film Club is a nice 
way to know these people, she explained. The only 
way you can learn [how to make ?lms], especially in a 
place that isnt a ?lm school, is to keep doing it over and 
over again.
The upstairs portion of the The Frame was dedicated 
to the student work submitted to ArtHang. The 
dividing walls from last weeks show were kept intact 
in order to create four separate viewing spaces for 
the work. Two of the sections displayed several small 
televisions with their own DVD players and headphones 
displaying videos on a loop. These devices were slightly 
hypnotizing to watch, as viewers walked from one TV 
to the next. Other sections were transformed into larger 
viewing spaces with seating and ?lms projected onto 
the wall. The work displayed on this ?oor varied, but was 
generally abstract rather than narrative.
The technology that was working to keep the show 
running seemed to seamlessly continue the loops 
of video, deliver the audio needed, and run without 
noticeable glitches. Bueno admitted that the 
technological aspects of the show provided a challenge, 
since each separate television had to be working and 
also have a headphone jack.
First-year linguistics major Edward Wojciechowski 
III commented upon leaving, I liked that the array of 
?lms showed varied in genre. There was something for 
everyone.
This show displayed over 30 student works in an 
intimate and engaging space. The integration of two 
student groups allowed for a more thorough display of 
the many different types of ?lm work created on campus, 
and provided for a successful show. 
Samantha Ward | Junior Staffwriter
The Frame Film Festival displays student work
ArtHang, Film Club present wide variety of student ?lms, transform gallery space into theater
Jesse Kummer | Staffwriter
Like Crazy is a romantic drama that 
won the Grand Jury Prize at last years 
Sundance Film Festival. Jacob, an 
American design student, and Anna, 
a British exchange student, fall in love 
over a years time and stay together 
for a summer. After visiting family 
in England, Anna is denied re-entry 
into the United States, forcing the 
couple into a strained long-distance 
relationship. Like Crazys script was 
improvised almost entirely by the 
actors. Fun Fact: The ex-wife of the 
director has stated that the movie is 
basically a re-enactment of their own 
romantic history.
Like Crazy
Thursday, Feb. 23
8 10 12
Wet Hot American Summer
Saturday, Feb. 25
10 12
Wet Hot American Summer is one of 
the most underrated comedies to come 
out in the last 15 years. It stars a bevy 
of comedic actors including Janeane 
Garafolo, Paul Rudd, Amy Poehler, 
Michael Ian Black, Michael Showalter, 
Elizabeth Banks, and many more. The 
movie shows these men and women as 
camp counselors who hilariously make 
it through the ?nal week of summer 
camp. The ?lm is very tongue-in-cheek 
about itself. Several scenes are too over 
the top to even describe. Its the perfect 
movie to just sit back, turn your brain 
off, and watch. And isnt that a fantastic 
thing to do around midterms?
A Very Harold and Kumar 
Christmas
Friday, Feb. 24
8 10 12
Set six years after the sequel, the 
franchise that helped relaunch Neil 
Patrick Harris career is back and 
just as funny as ever. This ?lm follows 
the fearless duo as they embark on 
another spectacular journey after Kumar 
accidentally burns down Harolds 
fathers prize Christmas tree. Its silly, 
yes, but what else would you expect? 
Fun Fact: Danny Trejo, who plays Mr. 
Perez in the movie, wears an ugly 
Christmas sweater in the ?lm; that alone 
should be reason enough to see this.
Academy Awards
Sunday, Feb. 26
7
The Activities Board is showing the 
Oscars in their entirety in McConomy 
Auditorium this Sunday. This years 
event will be hosted by Kermit and 
Miss Piggy. There will be snacks and 
plenty of opportunities to make fun 
of the stars from the comfort of a 
squeaky chair. Nine ?lms are competing 
for Best Picture this year: The Artist, 
The Descendants, Extremely Loud 
& Incredibly Close, The Help, Hugo, 
Midnight in Paris, Moneyball, The Tree 
of Life, and War Horse. Will your favorite 
movie come home with any Oscars?
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

8theater
pillbox 02.20.12
Vibrant. Visceral. Introspective.
Thats how Christian Fleming, a senior directing major, 
described his rendition of Hair, which was performed 
last week in the Helen Wayne Rauh Theater in Purnell. 
Fleming was behind the scenes of the show that served 
as his senior thesis. Instead of documenting the journey 
of a generation of youths, Fleming explained, we are 
trying to create a compelling, personal story of one 
mans life. This plot adjustment was intentional, and 
Fleming said it contributed to his desired vision for the 
production.
As audience members ?ltered into the theater, they were 
greeted by Claude (played by junior acting major Jacob 
Tischler), the shows main character, sitting silently in 
a hospital bed in the middle of the stage. Claude thinks 
back to the moment he received his draft card for the 
Vietnam War. He is greeted by some familiar faces: From 
behind a 30-foot white sheet come the 11 members 
of the tribe, spinning Claudes hospital bed as they 
parade around him. Their leather vests, bell-bottoms, 
and voluminous hair provide colorful and vibrant contrast 
to the drab, hospital gown-wearing man weakened by 
post-traumatic stress disorder.
The tribe whisks him back to the time when he was 
young and rebellious, when he adopted the title 
Aquarius. With this con?dence and bravado, Claude 
drops out of school, not holding back in expressing 
his true feelings to his principal, who is scandalously 
imagined as a Nazi. The free-spirited hippies show 
Claude a new life, unbounded and full of beauty.
However, Claudes parents pressure him to start being 
an American and get a job. The beauty of the stage 
is exempli?ed in a great scene when Claude explains 
everything he has to his parents. During this song, called 
Ive Got Life, the members of the tribe were seamlessly 
integrated into the scene as background dancers. 
Tischlers voice dominated the song, from the slower 
emotional parts to the energetic wordy bits.
Claude deals with a dif?cult dilemma in the show: He 
wants to make change, but doesnt want to go to war 
to do it. When he receives his draft card, however, he 
begins to think seriously about his departure. Claude 
then sings Hair, the title song, a number dedicated 
to the luscious and lengthy locks that de?ned the late 
60s. This song is the epitome of the shows message 
the importance of self-expression. It begins slowly, with 
 Claude and fellow friend Berger (played by Rodney 
Jackson, a junior drama major) harmonizing gradually 
before exploding into a lively parade of expression and 
resistance.
In a pivotal scene, the members of the tribe surround 
a ?re with the men lining up one by one, each tossing 
his draft card into the ?ames. Claude is last in line, and 
as his friends cheer him on, he approaches the ?re. 
But when he goes to toss it in, he cant. This moment 
of indecision is emphasized by the pianos high notes, 
played by junior piano performance major Stephanie 
Mao.
And suddenly, reality hits. The playfulness of the ?rst half 
of the show is gone, and the impending dangers of war 
quickly approach. Those in charge of the shows props 
did an excellent job, especially in this portion of the 
performance, substituting canes for muskets and bent 
wire hangers for bows and arrows.
All too soon, the grim and gritty reality sets in as fellow 
soldiers are shot while crossing trenches  wonderfully 
accompanied by a sharp, low crash on the piano. Some 
take their own lives with imaginative yet disturbing 
depictions of self-strangulation and lighting themselves 
on ?re. The dramatics continue as Claude ends up in a 
one-on-one ?ght with an enemy soldier.
Claude steals his opponents knife and fatally stabs him, 
but is so horri?ed by what hes done he convulses in 
horror and begins to cry. In the end, Claude falls victim 
to the violence of war and suffers several knife gashes 
 accentuated with a loud piano crash, reminiscent of 
the slashing from the infamous shower scene in Alfred 
Hitchcocks Psycho.
The tribe members return him to the hospital bed where 
the show began, giving their goodbyes. The light goes 
out on the tribe, shining only on Claude as he curls up in 
bed. Total darkness ?lls the stage as the tribe sings the 
last lines of Let the Sun Shine In.
This show is as big as the hair its named after, but the 
theater only had a 140-person maximum capacity, so 
scaling down the big production was no easy task. The 
cast of 12 tackled an impressive 24 songs, each member 
getting his or her own solos throughout the show. A 
single, static set with just the right amount of detail 
served as the backdrop to the show. Despite being a 
scaled-down version of the original, this production of 
Hair hit all the right notes. 
Nick Guesto | Staffwriter
Hair packs punch despite small-scale production
Drama students take fresh approach on classic musical, put on compelling performance
Members of a hippie tribe help Claude (junior Jacob Tischler) choose between going to war or giving up on his 
dream to make change.
Courtesy of Christian Fleming

---------------------------------------------------

The Greek myth of Orpheus and Eurydice is a tragic tale 
of love and loss, says the directors note in the playbill 
for ScotchnSodas Eurydice. The 90-minute show, which 
had three performances last weekend in the University 
Centers McKenna/Peter/Wright room, was directed by 
Andy Minton (junior ethics, history, and public policy 
major) and Brad Sherburne (third-year architecture 
major).
According to Minton, the realization of this production 
began more than a year ago, when he first approached 
Sherburne with the script, written by American plawright 
Sarah Ruhl. The directors vision was immediately 
evident in the beautiful set. The McKenna/Peter/Wright 
room was transformed into an immersive world, which 
brought about a sense of whimsy and wonder.
Metallic objects such as ladles and eyeglasses hung from 
the ceiling; the quirky trinkets seemed like they were 
floating due to magic rather than fishing wire. The set 
teleported the traditional Greek myth into a more modern 
era, although the exact time period was ambiguous. 
The blue palette of the set  from the wallpaper to the 
umbrellas framing the stage  was a clever nod to the 
frequent references to water throughout the play.
Eurydice follows the story of two lovers, Eurydice (played 
by Jasmine Peterson, a sophomore computer science 
major) and Orpheus (played by Raz Golden, a first-year 
international relations and politics major). On their 
wedding day, Eurydice encounters a Nasty Interesting 
Man (played by Will Weiner, a junior social and decision 
sciences and statistics double major), who lures her to his 
apartment with promises of a letter written by her late 
father (Eli Diamond, a junior drama major).
Unnerved by the suspicious character, Eurydice tries to 
leave but falls down the stairs and enters the Underworld, 
joining her father. She also joins three Stones: Big Stone 
(Christine de Carteret, a fourth-year architecture and 
history double major), Little Stone (Larissa Jantonio, a 
sophomore communication design major), and Loud 
Stone (Erika Tang, a junior economics major).
The Stones function as a stylized version of a Greek 
chorus, bringing the play back to its traditional roots. 
Offering explanation and commentary, the Stones 
provide a necessary contrast to the rest of the piece, as 
they speak rhythmically and often in unison. The three 
actresses hard work on characterization was obvious, as 
each Stone had a distinct personality, walk, and voice. 
Their dark blue and green costumes were almost gothic; 
elements such as corsets and dark lipstick helped portray 
the darkness and bizarre nature of the Underworld.
The Underworld itself was denoted by a creative use of 
lighting: Colder, bluer lighting separated it from the more 
cheery, warmly lit Overworld. The blue lighting was no 
doubt used to conjure up the idea of water. After dying, 
Eurydice arrives via a rain-filled elevator: Water dripped 
from some invisible source above the stage, creating an 
aesthetically pleasing effect.
Although Weiners performance as Nasty Interesting 
Man was captivating and unnerving, he really shone as 
the Lord of the Underworld. The strange, childlike being, 
with a colorful, oversized bowtie and buttons, rode down 
the aisles on either side of the audience on a comically 
tiny tricycle. Weiner was perfectly creepy and hilarious as 
this character, and successfully portrayed the suspicious 
similarities between his two characters.
Golden, as Orpheus, was incredibly moving with his 
expressive face and entrancing voice. Since his character 
is left alone in the Overworld quite early in the play, the 
majority of his performances were monologues as he 
expressed himself through letters to Eurydice. While 
this had the potential to be redundant, Goldens emotive 
performance kept the audience interested.
Although the acting was on par, it was the design 
that had everyone talking afterwards. First-year vocal 
performance major Ethan Crystal said, With the 
limitations presented by the room, especially with the 
lighting, I thought they did an excellent job. I was really 
impressed.
Lindsay MacGillivray, a sophomore mechanical 
engineering major, was captivated by the bold stylistic 
choices made by the directors. The set and everything 
was really artistic. I felt it really captured the essence of 
the show ... and when the back door opened and there 
was the waterfall  that was really, really cool, she said.
The small performance space had its strengths and 
weaknesses. It increased the feeling of intimacy, since 
everyone was so close; the performance was often 
brought right into the aisles next to the audience. 
MacGillivray said, I left feeling very incorporated into the 
show even though I was just sitting there watching.
The only drawback of the space is that those sitting 
any further than four or five rows back may have had a 
difficult time seeing the stage, particularly when actors 
were sitting or lying on the floor. However, given the 
intricate emotions in the delicate piece, perhaps the 
intimate space was the right choice.
For audience members who were already familiar with 
the traditional Greek myth, the show was a refreshing 
take on the story. It was the traditional story of Orpheus, 
but with a twist.... It was much more relatable, 
MacGillivray said. The directors efforts of more than 
a years work were worth it, as cast and crew came 
together to create this stylized piece in a cohesive 
manner.
Gabriela Pascuzzi | Junior Staffwriter
theater
pillbox 02.20.129
Courtesy of Guillermo Gomez
The Stones (played by sophomore Larissa Jantonio, junior Erika Tang, and fourth-year Christine de Carteret, in 
order of appearance) served as an Underworld version of a Greek chorus.
ScotchnSoda puts on rendition of Eurydice
Adaptation of Greek classic, impressive set design captivate, unnerve audience

---------------------------------------------------

10literature
pillbox 02.20.12
The undergraduate English department kicked off 
the Creative Writing Student Series on Thursday 
night with its ?rst event for the spring semester. The 
event was loosely themed around Valentines Day, 
and was aptly titled Hearts (And Other Organs). 
Three students were featured readers and a few 
other students participated in the open mic portion 
toward the end of the event.
Held in The Gladys Schmitt Creative Writing Center 
in Baker Hall, commonly known as The Glad, the 
event had a feeling of intimacy and comfort. The 
lights were dimmed and attendees sat around the 
room on an assortment of couches, tables, and 
rocking chairs. Instead of feeling crowded, the 
setting made the event feel more like a gathering of 
good friends. The bookshelves that line the walls and 
the coffee maker in the corner made it obvious that 
the out-of-the-way location is a favorite of writers.
The series is under new management this semester: 
Ila Foley, a senior creative writing major; Ines Pujos, 
a senior creative writing major; and Madeleine 
Barnes, a senior art and creative writing double 
major, are now running the series. They recruited 
readers to participate and ran a raf?e after the 
readings had concluded. All undergraduate students 
in the English department are eligible to perform 
in the series, but students can only read once per 
semester.
Foley felt like event was a success; she remarked 
that she was glad to see people come out, and that 
it was nice to see lots of familiar faces. Since the 
event is held in such a tiny space, the audience was 
fairly small. However, all members of the Carnegie 
Mellon community are invited to attend and enjoy 
some original readings as well as pizza, soda, and 
candy.
Thursdays readers were senior creative writing 
major Brian Sherwin, junior creative writing 
major Austin Moyer, and sophomore creative and 
professional writing double major Anna Albi. Their 
prepared works, along with the pieces shared by 
the few students who participated in the open mic 
portion, made for an enjoyable evening. Barnes 
described the night as being ?lled with vivacious 
readers and lots of crunching candy hearts.
Since most in attendance were af?liated with 
the English department, there was a real sense 
of community and support for one another 
throughout the evening. Foley described the series 
as good community building, and the post-show 
environment supported her description. Patrons 
talked, joked, and ate while the pink and red 
streamers that decorated the walls were removed 
and the lights came back up.
The series de?nitely started off on a high note. Two 
more events are scheduled, with the ?nal reading 
taking place at The Frame toward the end of the 
year. This last event in the series will showcase all of 
the senior creative writing majors.
Although it is nice to maintain a special bond within 
the English department, it would be nice to see 
future events marketed to the broader Carnegie 
Mellon community. Perhaps next time the crowd will 
be even larger and more varied, so more students 
can watch these writers share their work.
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Student readings start strong
First event of the year showcases student work, close community
Sophomore creative and professional writing 
double major Anna Albi shares her work at the 
student reading.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Feb. 15, 1912
There is a new tardiness policy for the 
spring semester: All tardies to class 
must now be followed up with a letter 
to the dean explaining the nature of the 
lateness and asking for pardon. The 
Tartan jokes that Carnegie Mellon will 
soon turn out the next great American 
novelist due to all of the explanations 
students must write.
50years ago
Feb. 28, 1962
A Mardi Gras-themed masked ball 
has students excited to spend Friday 
night in the Skibo Ballroom. Hosted by 
the International Club, the event will 
feature traditional dances from various 
countries followed by a floorshow 
hosted by the Queen of Mardi Gras, 
with prizes for the best costumes.
25years ago
Feb. 17, 1987
Love and sex are the central themes 
of this weeks editorial section. One 
writer criticizes the lack of condom 
advertisements by major news 
networks, and another writer explores 
whether true love exists at Carnegie 
Mellon by asking the question, Does 
Carnegie Mellon exist?
10years ago
Feb. 18, 2002
SciTech runs a review about a new 
piece of musical technology: the 
iPod. Toted as sleek and unique, 
The Tartan writers give the device 
a big thumbs up for innovation and 
usefulness. The iPod can store around 
1,000 songs, costs around $400, and 
is the size of a deck of cards.
5years ago
Feb. 19, 2007
A 1980 Carnegie Mellon alumnus 
writes a letter to the editor arguing for 
the Scottish terrier as the new mascot. 
He argues that the Scottie mascot 
has already been unofficially used for 
a while and will be more effective at 
selling merchandise than a highlander 
or piper  which the alumnus fondly 
refers to as a man in a skirt.
1year ago
Feb. 14, 2011
Both the mens and womens tennis 
teams came out victorious in their 
weekend matches. The men took on 
Robert Morris University and moved to 
62 for the season. The womens team 
also achieved a victory over Slippery 
Rock University, moving their record to 
31 for the season.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.20.1211
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 
When Shes Angry by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 02.20.12
Procrastination Yields Panic by Reza Farazmandpoorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
Online at www.poorlydrawnlines.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.20.1213
Solutions from Feb. 13, 2012
CrosswordMedium DifficultyHard Difficulty
Hexadecimal Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Hexadecimal Sudokus courtesy of 
www.krazydad.com/hexsudoku/
Using traditional Sudoku rules, fill in the 16 x 16 grid with 
16 hexadecimal digits. Each row, column, and 4 x 4 block 
contains the digits 0 to 9 and the letters A to F.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 02.20.12
1. Cruising vessel
2. Bellowing
3. Jackies predecessor
4. Blank look
5. Borodins prince
6. Centrepiece of the human face
7. Citrus coolers
8. Become visible
9. Fraud
10. Prince Valiants son
11. Sharp-edged instrument
12. Grenobles river
13. Bowler hat
18. NFL scores
21. Swabs
25. Flutter
26. At a great distance
27. Demanding
28. Dough
29. Cry of discovery
30. Involuntary muscular contraction
31. Half a fly
32. Versifier
34. Common article
35. French possessive
36. Decade divs.
38. Lacking slack
39. Encouraging word
44. Ogle
45. M*A*S*H* name
46. Astonish
47. Pull on
48. Brown-capped boletus mushroom
49. Bicker
50. Turbulent
51. Blender setting
52. Cruise stops
55. Queue after Q
56. Cries of discovery
57. Relocate
59. Day-___
1. Edible roots
5. Actress Balin
8. Mite
14. I smell ____!
15. Deity
16. Unit in a sentence
17. Torpid
19. Armored
20. Salon stylist
22. Eyeball
23. Forest makeup
24. Saddle horse
26. Pert. to the thigh
29. Giant Mel
32. Word after Anglo
33. Tawdry
37. One recording the past
40. Body of salt water
41. Derive
42. Double curve
43. Let loose
45. Heavy napped woolen fabric
48. Wrist bones
53. ___ Darya (Asian river)
54. Divided into four parts
58. Short swordlike weapon
60. Salesgirl
61. Rhododendron kin
62. The last letter of the Hebrew 
alphabet
63. Peter Fonda title role
64. Sharp reply
65. Application
66. Baby blues
 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
What have you been up to lately? There are many people 
who would like to know, and this may be a surprise to you. 
Take this new information as a sign to pause and really 
think about your actions.
taurus
april 20may 20
Challenge yourself this week by using only Shakespearean 
insults whenever you get angry at someone. Start with 
calling someone a clay-brained minnow, and then work 
your way up to the juicier ones.
gemini
may 21june 21
Spring Break is upon thee. Make haste: Fun and sun await 
those who seek them out.
cancer
june 22july 22
This week will be filled with surprises and drama, so hang 
in there.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
This week, ditch the episodes of The New Girl or anything 
on the SyFy channel, and watch nothing but day-long 
marathons of educational documentaries and Antiques 
Roadshow.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Reality is such a bore. This week, avoid reality and live a 
fantasy world created from your own delusions, sadness, 
and fear. Have fun.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Your doppelgnger is running amok around campus, and 
you havent the slightest idea how to stop it. Leave records 
of everything you do to prove you are not responsible for 
the misdeeds committed by your doppelgnger.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
There arent enough urban legends floating around 
Carnegie Mellon. Take some time this week to come up 
with something really good in order to frighten as many 
first-years as possible. 
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Even though change is taking place all the time, that 
doesnt mean we get used to it. There are changes on the 
horizon for you, Sagittarius. Stand and meet the change 
with your inherent grace and confidence.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Something seems to be missing. Find it quickly or suffer.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Tune in and drop out without the LSD. Reach for the 
remote and use the moving pictures to make things better.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Theres not enough color in your life. Brighten your day by 
brightening your wardrobe.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.20.1215
MONDAY2.20.12
Im Not A Toy. The Gallery 4, 206 S. Highland Ave.
This exhibition showcases the toy creations of local 
graphic designer Chase McBryde. Each ?gure has been 
handcrafted by McBryde to convey the artists uniquely 
contrasting tastes in contemporary toy design.
TUESDAY2.21.12
Pittsburgh Improv Comedy Jam. Cabaret At Theater 
Square, Seventh Street and Penn Avenue. 10 p.m. 21+
Improv comedians from all over Pittsburgh will perform 
unscripted scenes on stage. The show will pair 
comedians into random teams to generate unpredictable 
comedy.
WEDNESDAY2.22.12
Medicine for Melancholy. 720 Records, 4405 Butler St. 
9 p.m.
This love story follows two African-American twentysomethings as they deal with the changes of a swiftly 
gentrifying San Francisco. Medicine for Melancholy is 
part of a series of independent ?lms being shown every 
Wednesday in honor of Black History Month. Suggested 
donation is $5.
THURSDAY2.23.12
Sweeney Todd. Phillip Chosky Theater, Purnell Center 
for the Arts. 8 p.m. Through March 3.
Composed by Stephen Sondheim, this award-winning 
play explores love, loss, and revenge. Guest artist Joe 
Calarco directs the bloody tale of Todd and Mrs. Lovett as 
they kill and bake their victims into pies. Tickets are $17.
FRIDAY2.24.12
A Separation. Regent Square Theatre. 1035 Braddock 
Ave. Showtimes TBA.
Golden Globe Winner for Best Foreign Language Film 
in 2011, A Separation tells the tale of a woman ?ling for 
divorce in contemporary Iran. Directed by Asghar Farhadi, 
this story presents an intriguing narrative that examines 
guilt and innocence from multiple perspectives.
SATURDAY2.25.12
JACK Quartet. Andy Warhol Museum. 8 p.m.
Comprised of violinists Christopher Otto and Ari 
Streisfeld, violist John Pickford Richards, and cellist Kevin 
McFarland, the JACK Quartet focuses on performing new 
and interesting works. The quartet will perform Richer 
Textures, a new string quartet piece written by Pittsburgh 
composer and educator Amy Williams. Tickets start at 
$10.
SUNDAY2.26.12
Sunday Night Jazz. James Street Gastropub & 
Speakeasy, 422 Foreland St. 6 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Jazz Society (PJS) highlights local jazz 
artist Eric Johnson. The PJS presents local jazz artists 
every Sunday.
ONGOING
Oscar-Nominated Shorts. Regent Square Theatre. 
Through Feb. 23.
Both live-action and animated short ?lms will be shown 
at Regent Square Theatre in preparation for the Academy 
Awards on Feb. 26.
Cathy Wilkes. Carnegie Museum of Art.
Through Feb. 26.
The museum features paintings and sculptural 
installations by Cathy Wilkes that focus on her personal 
experiences.
Intimate Science. Miller Gallery. Through March 4.
The exhibition showcases interdisciplinary artists who 
incorporate science and technology into their creative 
processes, as well as scientists who use their technology 
and resources to create art.
Compiled by Christa Hester | Co-Publisher
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.20.12
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Culinary historian and writer Michael Twitty gave a lecture last Thursday on the origins of 
African-American food, sponsored by the University Lecture Series. Twitty provided food for 
attendees as part of the lecture, including black-eyed peas and rice, okra soup, and plasas greens.
food.
