r
FRESHMAN SHOW 
ALL WEEK 8:30 P.M.
MATINEE FRIDAY
BASKET BALL 
PITT AT TREES GYM 
TONIGHT
VOL. XIX No. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1925PITT CRUCIAL TEST TONIGHT
TED WEEMS TO PLAY FOR PROM
GENEVA LOSES 
AND W.&J. WINS 
IN CLOSE GAMES
Individual Thistle Pictures Must
LAll Be Taken Before Friday
Skibos Play Contests Away 
From Home; Games 
Hard Fought
GREEN TEAM SHOWS 
BIG IMPROVEMENT
During the past week the Plaid j 
passers were called upon to disj 
play their wares in two very hotly , 
contested games, winning tlie first 
from Geneva 31 to 28, and losing 
the second to Wash-Jeff by the close 
score of 33 to 27.
We have the word of Dan Daugh
erty that the game with Geneva was 
the fastest t'nat he ever refereed. 
This statement speaks a great deal 
for our representatives on the floor. 
There are no adjectives that could 
fittingly describe their playing. They j 
played like supermen, and did not 
let up until the last minute was 
played and the final wliistele had 
blown. It was due to this fighting 
spirit that the first game was won, 
and the other very nearly so. No 
discredit goes with the defeat, how
ever, for the boys gave their best, 
it was merely the breaks of the 
game that gave the contest to
W. & J.
On Tuesday evening the Tartans 
appeared againsL Geneva and Gene
vas floor. Immediately after the
whistle blew to start a real battle 
"was on. For those who did not see 
the contest it is hard to conceive 
of the action that the game con
tained. Every moment was filled 
with spectacular play, and the specta
tors were kept on their toes during 
the entire periods. The pace set was 
terrific but both sides seemed to will 
it that way and neither showed any 
sign of weakening. The fortunes of 
the game swayed first in the favor 
of the one them and then in tho 
favor o the other much in the man
ner of a giant pendulum. Each team 
had the lead several times, so it can 
be seen that it was anybodys game.
Probably the factor that gave the 
game to Carnegie was that at critical 
stages they were able ,to shoot tho
fouls which were called in their fa
vor. Any particular outstanding 
player cannot be named for fear 
that in so doing the others deserv
ing of meritorious mention would 
be slighted. Every man played the 
best that he was capable of. No 
more could be expected. The sum
mary follows:
. Carnegie Tech31. Geneva28.
Donahoe ..............F..................... Lipp'e
Matters .................F.......... Rubenstein
Conrad .................C..................... Clark
Lynch ...................G.............. Hamilton
Beede ...................G................. Shoupe
Substitutions: GenevaBorren for 
Clark, Wilson for Hamilton, Clark 
for Boren, Hamilton ror Wilson. 
Field goalsDonahoe 5, Matters 4, 
Conrad 3, Lippe 4, Rubenstein 2, 
Clark 3, Hamilton 2. Boren 1. Foul 
goalsLippe, 0 out of 2; Rubenstein, 
0 out of 2; Hamilton, 3 out of 3; 
Shoupe, 1 out of 3; Donahoe, 3 out 
of 6; Matters, 3 out of 5; Lynch, 1 
out of 3. RefereeDaugherty, W. 
& J.
One-half of the individual pictures for the Thistle have 
been taken thus far. The staff -will be grea tly hand capped it! 
the rest of these pictures are not taken at once.
The photographer mil be in room 149 Industries from 
10:30 a. m. to 3:30 p. m. daily from Monday, January 19, to Fri
day, January 23, inclusive. If your picture has not already been 
taken or -is not taken during this week, it will be necessary to 
omit it from the Thistle entirely. Absolutely no more pictures 
-will be taken at the McClay studio in 'Wilkinsburg.
If you wish to use last years picture, you may do so at the 
same cost, $1.00 for the first print and 50 cents for each addi. tional.
Pictures of all Seniors, active members of all fraternities 
and sororities on the campus must be taken; likewise the pictures 
of the members of the following organizations: Eta Kappa Nu, 
Tau Beta Pi, Alpha Tau, Tan Sigma Delta, Theta. Tan, C 
Club, Mortar Board, Castle, Thistle Board, Tartar Board, Technieal Journal Staff, Puppet Staff, Shilling Staff and Scalp and 
Blade.
SECOND PRELIM 
I PROM TICKETS 
NOW ON SALE
DR. BARKER TO SPEAK
AT CHAPEL THURSDAY
Mike Goodwin. President of 
Arts Junior Class, to Lead 
Traditional Grand March
ALUMNI ARE INVITED
WASH-JEFF33; CARNEGIE27
On Friday evening our team again 
went into action. This time the 
scene was laid in W. & J. territory. 
The W. & J. quintet at once took the 
lead and before many minutes had 
elapsed,, the Tartans were trailing by 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Hines Brothers Orchestra 
Will Be Syncopators At 
Womens Junior Prom
Annual Social Affair to be KiltieS Arrange For 
Held in Schenley Hotel -r . -t,, , 
Ballroom on 28th T"P ThlPUgl] fcaSt
Concerts to be Under Auspi-FAVORS TO BE UNIQUE
The annual Junior Promenade oC 
the Carnegie women is scheduled for 
Friday evening, the twenty-eighth of 
February. Every succeeding group 
of Junior girls has incorporated the 
best features of the former proms 
with their own new and brilliant ideas 
so that every year a more gorgeous 
affair is held.
Everyone knows that when a 
woman decides to do a certain thing 
that its all over except the arguing. 
Well, the women of the class of li)2G 
have decided to set this years Prom 
on a pedestal for coming fair Juniors 
to admire, but never to surpass or 
even closely approach. Thats that is 
the echo from the chorus of treble 
voices.
Jan Garber and his galaxy of mel
ody producers are avoiding the wintry 
blasts by syncopating in balmy Flor
ida, where only soft zephyrs rustle 
the palms. However, Jan has been 
kind enough to leave his acclimated 
musicians stay in the cold, cold north, 
and they call themselves Hines 
Brothers Orchestra. They are the 
snappy bunch that played at the wil
lows this summer, and who have the 
imitation of the Mound City Blue 
Blowers that is better than the 
original.
The Arts Ball participants who 
were scarlet-fevered. out of Garhera 
sweet refrains last year, determined 
to try again. Therefore, Hines' 
Brothers, the apple of Jans discrim
inating eye, will furnish irresistible 
music to guide the costumed figures.
Some girl in the Arts School went 
and told the Maggie Murphs all about it, and they wanted to hear this 
wonderful orchestra too, so every
thing ended happily when it was sug
gested to have the cute little Hines 
Brothers play for the Womens Jun
ior Prom.
It has been hinted that the orches
tra will waft their plaintive blues 
in the ball room of the Schenley 
Hotel. The cuisine of this neighbor
ing hostelry can not be surpassed, 
and the midnight supper will be a 
thing of delight. Something entirely 
novel for favors for the men and wo
men have been selected by the comContinued on Page Four.)
ces of Eastern Clan
The first number on the augment
ed program now being arranged for 
the Kiltie Band will bo a three-day 
engagement at the New dchenley 
Theatre in Oakland. The Schenley 
has been billing some of the finest or
chestras in the East, which makes 
their request for the Carnegie Band 
quite a compliment. Tho concerts 
will probably be held February ID, 
20, and 21. All other arrangements 
have been completed.
A special program of classical and 
popular scores are being prepared for 
this event. In addition, a jazz or
chestra is being formed within the 
band, Obie Newman will sing, and 
Bernard Maslan, an Art Plebe, will 
give a chalk talk.
The big surprise is the contemplat
ed eastern trip during spring vaca
tion. A trip is planned with concerts 
in Johnstown, Harrisburg, Philly, 
New York, Buffalo, and Erie, under 
auspices of the Carnogio Clans in 
those cities. Forty-live men will be 
taken on the trip in two special Pull
man cars, business inanagor Owens, 
and his assistant Corutti going ahead 
as advance agents. This trip, which 
seems assured of going through by 
the preliminary work, will be one of 
the most daring projections ever at
tempted by a Carnegie organization.
Plans are almost completed for a 
week-end trip to Wheeling, West Vir
ginia. In the near future. Lyons, 
Ohio, has also sent in requests for an 
engagement. All these concerts are 
being booked under the personal su
pervision of Dave Garber, manager.
Garber is very well pleased with 
the progress of the Band. The num
ber of pieces has been cut from sixtythree to forty-five, eliminating all 
who were not showing the proper in
terest. Every man that is left is an 
enthusiastic Kiltie worker, and is 
proud of the distinction.
Rehearsals will be held every 
Thursday night till after the final 
examinations. During next semester, 
rehearsals will be held each Tuesday 
and Thursday evening. There are 
several openings for flute and piccolo 
players; The Kilties will play at all 
home basketball games during the re
mainder of the season.
Next Week Will Bring Hallucinations and Quite a 
Few Fond Perturbations, Correcting Mental 
Aberrations, So We Can Take Examinations
Bye Bye
At the end of this otherwise calm 
and uneventful week, it has been 
forecasted by the stars Taurus and 
Mawruss, a dreadful carnage will be 
perpetrated. The usually milk and 
meek representatives of the salt of 
the earth, the assistant profs and 
scrub instructors will come into their 
own.
Give us a chance, say we. Here is 
an examination that we should like 
to give to certain members 9f the 
erah, we're afraid to say it but you 
know what department we mean. Its 
as fair as most of the exams theyve 
shot at us and we dont mean may
be. (Boston papers please copy.) 
Examination in KKK. Prof. Kleagle. | 
(Write on one side of the sheet only.)
1. (a). Name and describe four
methods of procedure in each of the 
following:
1. If your hair is falling out, 
laugh it off.
2. How a chorus girl gets a Rolls 
RC/yce out of agarage. (You 
thought we were going to say an
old oil can, didnt you?)
3. A man gets 5 Bs, 6 As and
2 Cs, giving him a semester
grade of R.
4. A hen and a half lays an egg 
and a half in a day and -a half. 
How many hard-boiled eggs are 
there in the faculty?
(b). Draw logically and to scale: 
Specific gravity, two logarithms to 
the base, 10 eating a mantissa, a 
ratio. Ohms Law, applied art, and a 
decimal point in three positions with 
reference to the X, Y, and Z planes.
2. Noah had an arc. It was twice 
as long it was broad, four times as
high and it was deep, and had a mo
ment of inertia. The animis want
ed to play poker. Find the size of 
Noahs cellar. He kept them from 
playing poker by sitting on the deck. 
(Use a triple integral. You may as
sume the first amendment to the Con
stitution of Siam.)
3. Write a three-thousand word 
theme on the subject O.
' 4. Who wrote the following ex
pressions and what books are they 
taken from?
1. I am.
2. You are.
3. He, she, it, is.
4. We are.
5. You are.
(!. They are.
7. That goes for your old man too.
8. Define and sketch: Banana oil,
ants antlers, snakes hips, hiccoughs, 
delirium tremens, absolute zero.
On the night of January 30, just 
one week from Friday: the William 
Penn, gayly decorated and resound
ing to the strains of Ted Weems 
famous orchestra, will be host to our 
Juniors. For months tho Prom com
mittee has been looking forward to 
this night, and has done everything 
in its power to insure that no detail 
will be overlooked. Perhaps it may 
bo interesting to know that their ef
forts have been so succest'ul by the 
sale of tho preliminary tickets, that 
the accommodations may not be 
adequalo to take care of everyone.
Tho second preliminary ticket was 
placed on sale last Tuesday, and may 
still be purchased at the prico of 
$2.50. If a first preliminary ticket 
was not Obtained tho prico is $4.00. 
The remaining $5.00 may be paid at 
tho Prom or a final ticket can be pur
chased. Everyone is urged to obtain 
their tickets now, as reservations 
will be made for a certain number 
only, this number to bo determined 
by the advance sale of tickets.
As announced at General Assembly, 
Tod Weems Orchestra, of New York 
Instead of Oxleys will play, tho con
tract with Oxleys having been brok
en by mutual agreement, between the 
managors and th< comm it toe. Tod 
Weems Orchestra needs no introduc
tion. it is nationally known and is 
a popular favorite among eastern uni
versities and colleges. It was this 
Orchestra that furnished the music 
for the Penn State Prom, and Car
negie is indeed fortunate in securing 
musicians of such high caliber. With 
twelve instruments being played as 
only Tod Woems men can play thom, 
we are absolutely assured of all the 
inspirationand assistance which the 
best of music can lend to dancing. 
Plans aro being made by tho com
mittee to have tho music broadcasted 
by a local radio station during tho 
entire evening.
The Prom will begin at nine and 
continue until two. Mike Goodwin, 
a member of Delta Skull, Scarab, 
Druids, and President of the Junior 
class of Arts will load the grand 
march. Dinner will be served at 
twelve.
The Publicity committee, hoaded 
by Murphy, has been doing commend 
able work in heralding tho coming of 
tlie Prom. It Is due to tho efforts 
of tills committee that the Campus 
has been so well supplied with news, 
write-ups, and notices concerning the 
event. Some of the Art students 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The last chapel of this semester j 
will be held Thursday at 12:30 in j 
the little theatre. Dr. Percival II. > 
Barker, pastor of the Point Breeze! 
Presbyterian Church of East Liberty! 
will probably accept Dr., Baker's inj 
vitation to speak. Dr. Baker is pas-1 
tor of one of the largest churches iu ! 
the city. He has been at Carnegie ! 
almost every year since chapel has | 
been instituted, and those who have 
heard him speak are eagerly antici
pating hearing what new message he 
has for their inspiration and self-1 
betterment.
There will be no special solo music, 
and the time usually given to that 
will be devoted to singing hymns in
stead. Arthur Bodycombo, a fresh
man of the music department will be 
the organist.
GRILL ROOM OF CARNEGIE 
INN WILL BE OPENED NEXT 
WEEK FOR STUDENT USE
WORK ON SOPH 
HOP IS BEGUN
V. Bowser Temporarily 
Assumes Charge of 
Committee
DATE SET FOR MAR. 6
The Soph 1-Iop Committee has beo.u 
appointed by the presidents of tho 
four schools. Tho tomporary chair
man Is J. V. Bowser, from Sclenco. 
Tho committee is composed of two 
members from oach school.
The dato for tho Soph hop has boon 
definitely set for March (!. Tho place 
has not boon arranged, but hope Is 
hold out that It may ho tho spacious 
ball-room of the -William Pom. 
Wledomelor's Orchestra, ono wellknown in tho east, has boon selo.ctod 
to play.
The Soph hop Is tho big ovont of 
tho year for every Sophomore and 
always to bo onjoyod by ovory ono 
who attends, Including tho many uppor-classmon. Tho 'Sophomoros havo 
always derived an unholy pleasure 
from this ono social function whoro 
they may appear and tho Plobos may 
not. Tho Sophs this yoar plan a 
numbor of surprise foaturos, includ
ing, favors, and none of tho usual 
features of a good dance will bo 
lacking.
The committee Includes J. V, Bow
ser and P. A. Medei't from Science, 
If. F. Petorson and Clifford McWil
liams from Industries, I. F, Tornov 
and Ida Waldron from Arts, and Mary 
Sevallow and Alice Rlblott fropi M. 
M. The presidents of tho Sophomoro 
class In each school aro Loonard 
Flowers, Sclonco; Sid Forbes, Indus
tries; Wally Lynch, Arts; and Emily 
Fulton, M. M.
(Continued on Page Four)
CARNEGIE TO HAVE 
NEW SEAL DESIGN
TERRA COTTA INST.
TO BE HELD MAR. 17
A tree days Terra Cotta Institute 
will be held at Carnegie in coopera 
tion with the National Terra Cotta 
Society on March 17, 18, and 19. The 
meeting, which is announced as the 
first of its kind arranged in this coun
try, is being planned for the benefit 
of architects and the building, terra 
cotta, and ceramic industries.
With the exception of a registra
tion fee of one dollar no tuition fees 
or other charges will be made to those 
who attend the institute. It is ex
pected, that the thre days affair will 
appeal particularly to persons con
nected with the related industries in 
Western Pennsylvania although any 
one who is interested will be wel
comed.
The three days institute will be 
conducted under the jurisdiction of 
the Department of Industrial Rela
tions at Carnegie Tech, with Dr. C. 
B. Connelley, Director of the Depart
ment, in charge. A committee repre
senting the several professions and 
industries interested in the meeting, 
Is cooperating with Dr. Connelley In 
arranging a program.,
Among the lecturers already en
gaged for the sessions are: F, S. Lau
rence, Executive Secretary, of the 
National Terra Society, on Terra 
Cotta fn^ Architectural Design; 
Adolph Hottinger, . Treasurer, The 
Northwestern Terra Cotta Company, 
Chicago, on a technical subject In 
ceramic science; Cecil Ffdler, of the 
Atlantic Terra Cotta Company, Perth 
Amboy, N. J., upon requirement; of 
construction In terra cotta: A. H. 
Sheffield, TerraCotta Service Bureau, 
Chicago, upon a general subject of 
terra cofta.
All of the meetings of the institute 
will be held in the College of Fine t 
Arts.
To Represent Particularly All 
the Student Body
Carnegie is going to have a new 
seal. That Is, it is going to have one 
which will represent more particu
larly the student body; one which 
can be used at the will of tho Stu
dent Council, unhampered by the 
faculty. The committe, whose chair
man is P. PI. Sload, prefers one which 
will somewhat rcsqmble the official 
Institute seal, and ha3 already taken 
steps to have it designed. It was 
hoped that the work would be finish
ed in time to use the design on fa,vors 
for the Junior Prom, but now that 
Dean Tarbell has given permission to 
use the official seal, it is not neces
sary to hurry matters, and sufficient 
time can be taken to produce a fine 
seal.
Work on the seal is being done by 
E. F. Miller. He has already sub
mitted two designs which are well 
liked by the committee. The essen
tial is that the 3eal shall resemble 
the official one. The name of the 
school and date of founding will prob
ably bo around the edge. Within 
there will be thistle, and perhaps tho 
lamp of knowledge; and the letters 
I, 'A, S, M, standing for the four 
schools will bo Interspersed, Tho 
difference will chiefly bo in the cen
ter. The inscription In tho middle of 
the official seal, "My heart is In the 
work must bo replaced by something 
else, as it Js copyrighted.
Tho two ketches submitted Involve 
these details. The committee has re
quested Miller to make another how 
ever, and the best of the three will 
be selected. It is expected that the 
seal will be ready by the end of the, 
semester. With this advent the In
stitute will have a seal; the students, 
will have one, and both may use Its 
own image without restraint.
Late Arrival of Specially 
Made Furniture Delays 
Opening Day
$80,000 EXPENDED
DIED
Tho opening of tho now Carnegie 
Grill Room has been unavoidably do-, 
laved owing to the lato arrival of I 
furniture. Tho Grill furniture being 
specially nnado in GraM Rapids, was 
not completed in time, thus retard
ing tho opening date until tho week 
of January 25, 1925,
LJ"LCarno^i Instituto**-has1' spent $80,- 
000 In completely roniodellng tho old 
Field house to provide facilities for 
the better preparation of foods and  
to prosent attractive surroundings.
The Grill suggests a* colonial tavern. 
The celling Is low, accentuated by 
the size of tho room. Tho buff coll
ing, suportod by four mnsslve pillars 
and two heavy beams, blonds Into tho 
walls of natural wood paneling, brok
en by I'-^ad, dark stained vertile 
strips. Tho floor Is of cypress wood 
blocks similar to tho now gymnas
ium floor, but layed in an attractive 
design,
From tho stroot, a spacious hard
wood stairway outers ono end of tho 
room botweon a tiled wash room aud 
a large fire place of a topo, toppoi] by 
a wooden mantel, sot back Into the 
wall. At the othor end of tho room Is | 
a completo soda fountain; though not 
intended to rosomblo a bar, It boars 
that resemblance, owing to tho wood
en panollng hiding a glitter of white 
enamel and nickol soda dlsponsors. 
A room directly to tho left has num
erous shelves to display an assort
ment of canned soup, moats, and 
fruits; boxes of toa biscuits and 
cakes, All tiloso delicados aro avail
able to those desiring refreshments 
after study or to rofrosh tho garrul
ous clique that gather In dorm 99.
Two long thick topped tables with 
honchos of similar construction, will 
grdoo tho floors length. Small tables 
situated around tho wullr. will bo 
lighted with small alindo lamps, while 
tho entire room will receive subdued 
light from several hammered wall 
brackets and tho log fire, both re
flecting their light upon the bull! coll
ing.
Ono can little realizo how attrac
tive tho grill Is, with Its colonial at
mosphereheavy furniture; Froneh 
windows curtained a marino design 
cretonno, low celling, subdued light
ing, enormous hoarthed fire placo, 
and un elaborato floor display of 
cuspidors.
Tho Grill Is to bo open from 7:30 
a. m., to 12:30 a. in., dispensing re
freshments and standard meals at. 
nominal prices. The standard moal 
will make possible bettor food at low 
cost. Patronize tho new Carnegie 
Grill.
The death of another very 
' faithful and valuable employe * 
*1 must be recorded. Antony -J* 
fScliuley died on Monday morning, v 
> January 12, of pneumonia. Ho ?>
* began his work at Carnegie ? 
?J* eighteen years ago as a helper *J* 
?I* in the bricklaying department. <*
Later he was attached to the 
maintenance department. Dur?!* ing his years at Carnegie ho !* 
was distinguished by his oxceptional politeness and desire to
? please. He was much respected >, 
because of his high character >. 
his kindliness, and his interest:
in lils work. >
STEFFEN SPEAKS 
AT CLAN LUNCH
Gold Footballs Given to Let
ter Men Before Big Crowd 
at Clan Luncheon
JUNIORS TO HOLD TEA
DANCE IN UNION WED.
The Junior class will hold a tea 
dance tomorrow afternoon In tlie 
Union at the usual time and the usual 
tax. The object is to raise money 
in order that the working expenses 
on the prom may be met. Juniors, if 
you want to help the committee and 
save it worry and trouble, support 
this dance. It is given for you and 
Is for the benefit of your biggest soc
ial affair.
Be sure that yon do your part t<* 
make it a success.
WILL RETURN IN 1925
Tho varsity clan luncheon, held at 
tho William Ponn last Saturday afternoon proved to be one of tho boat 
attended and most enjoyable over 
held. There were between four and 
five hundred proaont, including th-v 
captains of all the high school (,oamr< 
In the W. P. I. A, L. who wore tlior.y 
as tho guests of tho Pittsburgh Clan.
Tho principal speaker was, of 
course, Wally Steffen, Ho wan pro-, 
coded by Dr. Baicor, Col. Church, 
John L. Porter, Orr, president of the 
Varsity Clan, Laboon, president of 
the Athletic Council, Messrs. Garland, 
McArdlo, and Herron from tho City 
Council, and Bob Waddol,
Each speaker had a good word for 
tho lino work of tho team during the 
past season, and congratulated tho 
Institution on its coachos and good 
sportsmanship. When Mr. Lanuhun, 
who was loustmastor, aroso and an
nounced Wally as the last sponsor, 
the crowd showed plainly for what it 
had boon waiting. Wally gas given 
an ovation lasting for nearly fifteen 
minutes. It was lils day.
Wally spoko, as was expected, upon 
the past season. 1-Ie told how the 
team had been molded, in tho absonco 
of any particular star, into an elevenman unit. He told how the boys rea
lized that they had nothing but fight 
to carry them through and how nobly 
they responded , to this Idea. Bob 
Waddol was given a great deal of 
credit for his work with the loam 
during each week when Wally was in 
Chicago, and Obie Newman came in 
for praise when Wally said that he 
was one of the greatest captains a 
Carnegie team ever had.
Among other things, Wally an
nounced that he would be back next 
year, thus answering a question which 
has been bothering undergrads ever, 
since the close of the season. Ho 
said, Im not going to fool myself 
any longer, I dont want to quit coachContinued on Page Four.)
Many States, Nine Countries Are
Represented in Student Body
Pennsylvania Leads With 
1,491; Ohio, New York and 
West Virginia Follow in 
Order; Canada Leads Out
side United States
Stud out at Carnogio come from 42 
states in addition to tho District of 
Columbia. Nino foreign countries aro 
also represented among tho students.
Pennsylvania Is represented by 
1491 students, Including 551 who live 
In tho Pittsburgh District. Ohio Is 
next with 227, New York Is next with 
'104, and West Virginia has 60 en
rolled. Othor state with compara
tively large representations Include: 
New Jersey, 27; Michigan, 21; Con
necticut, 21; Indiana, 17; Maryland, 
17; Massachusetts, 15; Illinois, 11; 
Florida, Virginia, and Tennessee, 10
leach; Alabama, Nebraska, and Cali; fonila, 8 each. The District of Colum
bia Is claimed by 19 students as their 
I home.
Other states, with from one to 7 
I students as representatives, include 
j Arizona, Colorado, Delaware, GoorI gla, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, 
j Maine, Minnesota, Montana, New 
Hampshire, North Carolina, North 
I Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, . Rhode 
i Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, 
j Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin, 
j and Wyoming.
I Canada leads with tho largest reI presentation from countries outside 
of tho United States, with four, Mex
ico has throe, Roumanla has two, and 
India, Norway, China, aJpan, Holland, 
and the Philippine Islands have one 
each.
The widest geographical distribu
tion by states is in the College of 
Fine Arts whose 575 students come 
Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1925
CarniplMan
Published every week by undergraduates of tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the PoHtofllce of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED. C. SMITH....................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
F. I). ROSSINI A. K. KltOGH E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Canion R. R. Bitzler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS................................................................................Schenley 0102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ........................................................................................Schenley 1)070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin G547-.J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS...............................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
It. L. Lepper, M. Holllnsliead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, II. Hand,
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzclla, M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. 
FREES II. L. MyerB, L. Y. Twolilg, F. Finn, Wlngohl Kelly, F. A. Kold.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CIIKISTOFF .....................................................................................Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margaret McFall, J. F. IlarrlB, ,1. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernard!, B. Kristol'.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON....................................................................................  ;Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
N. C. WESER ........................................................................................Schenley 9122
cmcULAT|ON MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ ........................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINE3S ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. }3auerle, J. P. 
Strlzalc, Lola Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Carl, B. Supowltz, L. SachB, H. 
Kandoll, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, It. L. Grlbble.
The Editor-In-Chief HE reHponalble for the policy of till paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan weloomoH all communications of Btudent interest, if aigned. 
Signature will be withheld If deaired. All news itema must be in the sUdent 
post oillce before 4:30 Thuraday. ______________________________________
Tartan Oillce-Room G-A, Industries Building. Oillce houraDaily 12'30- 
1:20.
DRINKING FOUNTAINS
One mail cannot think o everything, ancl we cannot blame him 
ii he forgets something once in a while. We have a good illustration 
oi: this' Dact in the new gym. The building is eMnplete in every de
tail except one, and that is so obvious that it must have escaped tlie 
notice oi' the architect. There are no drinking fountains. There is 
not a place in the whole building where a man can get a drink after 
a hot game.oJ: basket ball, except by the unsanitary methods ol: drink
ing directly from a spigot or from a pitcher which is, used by every 
other fellow in the class.
Of course it is rather impractical to install drinking fountains 
at once but something should be done. It would, be simple to place, 
at various parts ol! the building, stands containing the usual water 
bottles with a device for distributing paper cups beside it. The cost 
would, not be great, and surely the students can expect them to be 
installed. Attention should be given the matter, for drinking water 
in tho gym lias boon needed urgently ever since elasscs started at 
the beginning of the semester.
CUTS
Since writing the last editorial on cuts, we have been talking to 
a certain professor who was very emphatic on the subject. He 
claimed that our present excuse system is a joke, and that we will, 
soon or or later, come around to a definite, cut system. As it stands 
now, anyone can get an. excuse, whether or not lie has grounds for 
one. Doc Marks cannot be expected to chock up closely on the mul
titude ol! excusos which ho receives during a week, and, consequent
ly, many students are given opportunities to make up work which 
they do not dosorvo.
On the other hand, it is impossible in some eases for students 
who really were sick to be excused. They thus miss work through 
no l'nult ol! their own.
Ilndor the Mil; system no excuses would bo issued for absences 
which wore not for the entire day. The habit ol! some students of 
obtaining excusos boeauso they overslept, and missed an oight-tlvirty 
.would bo brolcon, and a more prompt attendance would result.
Tho fact that the cut system has suporsodod the old l!ashioned 
excuse idea in all the foremost collogcs in tho country, and the fact 
that the continued use has led to tho discovery ol! no marked disad
vantages is a, powerful argument for its adoption hore. It could 
easily bo installed next year with proper publicity and would be a 
distinct step forward in tho administration ol! student alVuirs.
SUCCESS
K.xporieuoo has proved that success m campus activities results 
from consistent, hard, earnest, every-day plugging, rather than from 
any spasmodic Hashes ol! unusual genius. Just take for instance, the 
student managers. It is very seldom that, any man who lias stuck 
earnestly to the job for three years misses out in the end. There is 
always a job for the man who sticks. And thisis just as it should be. 
Someone has said: _ . .Genius is one-tenth inspiration, and nine-tenths perspiration.
But there is one fallacy to this system as applied to a college, 
and it is this. There may be men, who have not worked who have 
more individual ability than the men who get the jobs. Of course 
they do not deserve recognition; but, on the other hand, the school 
is the loser. When the best man obtainable is not in charge, the work 
will not be done in the best way possible. This is not meant as a 
criticism of any man who sticks three years and then gets his job. 
They are not given sufficient credit and recognition for their work as 
it is.The men with ability should get out and work. It a man can 
do something in the line of school activities, lie owes it to both his 
school and himself to get out and work in that line, be it athletics, 
managing or writing.
It is a sad commentary on our school spirit that we find the same 
men handling several of the major activities of the school: sad, not 
because they are unable to do it, but because* otherstudents do not 
show enough interest to do the work. It is* not necessary to quote 
examples. Any one who thinks will admit that practically all the 
work of running the activities is thrust on the shoulders of a small 
group who are willing to sacrifice their own personal inclinations for 
the good of the school. Activities offer a wonderful field for experi
ence to tho college student, and how few of our students take advantable of it!
We do not expectin fact we know that this article will not. per
suade.any students to get into activities. Those who arent interested 
simply will not come out.
BUT, if you are not connected with activities, dont, criticize the 
activities of those who are. Youve got to pay to get in before you 
can criticize the show, and in this case the price of admission is 
INTliRKST.
! The Week 
in theI
I Worlds News
By LESLIE P. BEEBE
1. SECRETARY HUGHES RESIG
NATION.
2. FRANK B. KELLOGG.
3. THE PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT.
4. THE DETAILS OF THE FINAN
CIAL AGREEMENT.
Political Washington lma had much j 
to talk about and speculate upon, in 
the resignation of Hugiies as Secre
tary of State, Kelloggs subsequent 
appointment, Haughton'a shift from 
our Embassy in Germany to the Court 
of St. Jamea and Coolidgea intention 
to appoint C. B. Warren as the new 
Attorney General.
It was common knowledge that 
Hughes had in time intended to re
sign but his realgnation was not ex
pected juat now and the newapapera 
have been rife with suggeationa con
cerning the real reaaon. That cer
tain large induatrial firms had offered 
the Secretary of State big fees if he 
would take certain apecial cases and 
that, after twenty years of contin
uous public service, lie desired to re
coup his private funds was known. 
Then again it is always good specu
lation to say "Presidency in 1928; 
but there are no grounds for hope. 
Borahs chairmanship of Foreign Re
lations Committee, and the fact that 
his policies were in many ways dia
metrically opposed to those of 
Hughes, and that four years of oppo
sition would have been neceasary 
must have influenced his decision 
somewhat.
Mr. Hughes lias been a very faith
ful public servant and his qualities 
of industry and ability to grasp a 
large body of facts are known to all. 
Educated at Colgate and at Colum
bia Law Seliol, ho has, since his 
graduation, been much in the public 
eye. Counsel for the Stevens Gas 
Commission in 1905 and the Arm
strong Investigation Commission in 
1900. Associate Justice of Supreme 
Court in 1910. Nominated for Presi
dency on the Republican ticket in 
191G, and Secretary of State under 
Harding in 1921, ho has given much 
to his country.
To illl the (Hughes vacancy, the 
President has appointed Frank B. 
Kellogg of Minnesota, now Ambassa
dor (o the Court of St. James, to 
take office oii March 4. Kellogg came 
first into the limelight in the Inter
state Commerce investigation and 
that of the Standard Oil, causing the 
dissolution of the latter into thirty 
separate companies in 1911. He 
came to the Semite in 1917, and suc
ceeded Harvey at the British Post in 
1923. He has proved his worth there, 
and helped to further closer relation
ship with the Empire so that his poli
cies in the Department of State will 
follow quite closely those of his pro-' 
deeessor. The English seem to be 
well pleased with the change to Alanson B, ITaughton and feel that he will 
fill Kelloggs place admirably.
'I'lie statement from the President 
says that outside of the changes men
tioned, and the appointment of C. B. 
Warren of Michigan to fill the va
cancy loft by Attorney General Stones 
resignation, there will be only one 
other cabinet change before March, 
that of Gores place in the Depart
ment of Agriculture. His policies, 
both domestic and foreign aro to con
tinue the same. The statement was 
Intended to allay any suspicion which 
still lingers that a now foreign policy 
will bo inaugurated by Borah, parti
cularly the recognition of tho Soviet 
and tlife resumption of trade relations 
with them, it is rumored that the 
chairman of Foreign Relations has 
in mind a political mission to Russia 
to determine just llie conditions, of 
affairs before we begin new relations.
Following the statement of' agree
ment of tlio Allies and the  United 
States which we published last week 
in this column come the details, 
which are of particular interest to us 
as they seem to mean a new step in 
our foreifgn policy. They are in part:
1. The sum .of 55,000,000 marks (?13,- 
750,00) is to be paid the U. S. an
nually until the entire cost of the 
Army of Occupation ($240,000,000 
be met.
2. The United States is to receive 
2^4 percent, of all the reparations 
receipts from Germany available un
der the Dawes Planno one years 
total to exceed 45,000,000 marks.
3. The Wordsworth agreement is 
superceded by this settlement. (The 
Wordsworth agreement was on costs 
of the Army of Occupation).
4. This percentage share sliall not 
be reduced without the consent of 
the United States.
The President has put his stamp of 
approval 011 the negotiations and does 
not feel that there is need for Con
gressional approval. The important 
fact remains that MAR are in Europe, 
linked up definitely with the Allies, 
interested in all their policies, be
cause now they will affect our inter
ests. Tills is just one step nearer to 
the International Cooperation which 
must come in time.
Student Calendar
Considerations to Use In Selection of a Career are 
Set Forth By C. H. Murray In Interesting Lecture
 NIGHT STUDENTS 
ASSEMBLY FRIDAY
Positive results are being accom
plished in helping the college grad-j 
uate find the work he is best fitted 
to do. A following out of certain | 
specific considerations will materi
ally aid the young man who, after 
four or more years of intensive 
training such as is now offered in 
the major schools of the country, 
faces lifes work. The terms "ca
reer" and "lifes work" are used 
advisedly because in most cases 
the college graduate has fairly w-ell 
decided what he wishes to do. After 
this his major problem is the se
lection of the particular organiza
tion in which he is to give his 
energies play. On the other hand, 
there are a large number of young 
men who have little idea of the 
line of work in which they can be 
most effective, and here again the 
choosing of a company 111 which 
they may properly "find' them
selves is most important.
A few years ago, except in iso
lated cases, there was apparently 
no scientific method in any young 
mans mind as to how such a prob
lem could be approached. As a 
result, the man, <as well as industry, 
lost a great deal of time in getting 
to the place where a proper contri
bution could be made and reward
ed. With the recent growth of an 
increasingly close relationship be
tween educational institutions and 
industry, however, the program 
begins to take definite shape; and 
it is our belief that in later years 
the average student will attack 
this problem of choosing the conv 
pany with which lie wishes to be
come affiliated in much the same 
manner as he attacks any labora
tory test; first setting up his prob
lem, then getting together all facts 
necessary to its solution, and final
ly tying them together and arriving 
at a logical conclusion.
Technical skill of every class 
must be employed in successfully 
carrying out the varied programs 
of the larger industries as they 
function today; and in them are 
found positions of major, responsi
bility which should he attractive 
to the college man. --It is thus that 
men trained in any of the engineer
ing fields, as well as in other lines, 
find full play for their efforts and 
ideas in a single organization, and 
it is not uncommon to see the me
chanical, civil, electrical, chemical, 
mining and metallurgical engineer; 
the trained salesman, accountant, 
publicity man, and social service  
worker carrying out under the ; 
same roof important phases of 
large companys undertakings.
Assuming, again, that by special
izing in his college work and sup-1 
plemenling this technical training 
by practical experience during the I 
vacation periods, a man has prej 
pared himself for a specific line of I 
work, he is led to the place where 
the problem of what particular 
company is best adapted to the ef
fective outlet of his capabilities is 
paramount. There are hundreds ol! 
well managed industrial organiza-! 
tions established in this country | 
today and the "measuring stick 1 
which we are presenting is suffi-J 
ciently elastic to apply to any.
First, there are certain obvious | 
considerations such as realizing j 
that the problem cannot be worked I 
out over night and that often a few; 
.-years of actual observation on a 
job or various jobs may be necesj 
scry before a decision can be arriv
ed at; that of dodging the soft | 
spots which may prove to be "dead 
ends, a disrogard for Initial mone
tary return when balanced against 
experience and future possibilities; 
and a number of other factors 
which are important, blit with 
which wo are not concerned^liere. 
It is the specific considerations in 
which wo are now most interested. 
Experience has shown that those 
set forth below should be most 
carefully regarded:
1. What is the character of tlie. 
personnel and management of the | 
company? The personnel and manj 
agement of an organization must 
be studied together as the two are | 
so closely related that one cannot 
be effective without the other. A far j 
visioned and understanding man[ 
agement is sure to build up a con-1 
tented and "producing" personnel j 
and if any of these factors is lackj 
ing the company is not one in | 
which the ambitious technically! 
trained man can effectively cash j 
in on his ability.
2. Is it a basic industry; i. e 
one of Hie fundamental industries j 
011 which other lines of work dej 
pend? This is important to insure | 
the steadiest growth of a mans caj 
reer. There are many non-basic j 
industries which are successful j 
and operate with little interrupi 
tion, yet there is surety that a j 
basic industry will carry out these 
factors to a greater degree.
8. How big is it? Although a 
rise to the top is usually easier in j 
a small organization than it is in a | 
large one, because of the fact that 
competition is less keen, the ulti-1 
mate gain will not nearly approach j 
that w'hich is in reach of men in 
the larger organization.
4. What has been its history in j 
expansion and labor relationshas; 
it been a follower or a leader? It j 
is comparatively easy to study the! 
history of our larger organizations, j 
and it is important, because as an j 
organization has functioned in the | 
past, so will it function in the fu-1 
ture, provided, of course, that its 1 
management and personnel remain! 
practically the same.
What is the breadth of its mar-1 
ket? A company whose market is 
wide in scope is naturally wide in 1 
the opportunities which it can give 
the individual members of its or
ganization and offers an outlet for 
the functioning of many different 
forms of effort.
6. Is the product diversified? A 
business whose distribution de
pends upon the economic situation 
of one particular group "is likely 
to offer unstable and interrupted 
employment to the members of its 
group.
7. How is-the company general
ly regardedby its own personnel, 
competitors, and persons in other 
line of work? The method of get
ting the answer to this question 
and the conclusions to be drawn 
from the answers are obvious.
8. What is its financial stand
ing? Anyone has access to the bal
ance sheets of the larger Industrial 
concerns. It is well to study these 
closely in order to be sure of iden
tifying oneself with a going con
cern.
9. Study the general appearance 
and layout of plants and offices. 
Just as the dress and carriage of 
an individual show something of 
his personal habits, so does the 
outward appearance of an indus
trial organization reflect its meth
ods of management.
10. Have other men made prog
ress? Where other men with sim
ilar qualifications have made prog
ress, it is natural to assume that 
the new man will move upward in 
a like manner. An organization 
loaded with potential leaders who 
have stood still for a number of 
years is 0110 to avoid.
11. Are there many young men 
in executive positions? This con
sideration is directly in comparison 
to that mentioned above. Anor
ganization which gives full play to 
the 'ambitions and ideas of the 
younger members of its personnel 
should attract those young men 
who are seeking places of responsi
bility.
12. What is the policy of promo
tion? A company which fills its 
Important positions from within its 
own organization may be counted 
uiion to offer regular progress;
that which hires its executives 
from outside its own doors has us
ually a discontented and constant
ly shifting personnel.
13. Are there many organization 
changes made? Regular changes 
in organization due to expansion in 
a companys size and scope are 
healthy. Those which are caused 
by a constant shift in supervisory 
positions would indicate that there 
is a lack of team work and that 
even when gained, a responsible 
place in that organization is inse
cure and, therefore, not to be es
pecially sought after.
14. What are the facilities for 
training? Every right-minded tech
nically trained man, realized that 
additional and constant study is 
necessary to his future advance
ment A company which offers un
der its own supervision, a variety 
of courses with which a young 
man may supplement his college 
training gives him. the advantage 
of those necessary studies which if 
acquired on the mans own initia
tive might be expensive as well as 
misdirected.
15. What outside activities does 
the company sponsor? Interest in 
civic affairs, the furnishing of rec
reation places where the members 
of its organization may meet to
gether, the support of athletic 
teams; in short, the promotion of 
a general plan for an outlet for its 
individuals "play energies, and 
the moulding of good citizenship 
are a very close indication of what 
may be expected from that com
pany along other lines.
16. What are the opportunities 
for investment in the company? 
When a man lias confidence in the 
future of the organization with 
which he is affiliated, he is often 
moved to divert all his available 
financial as well as >liis physical ef
forts into that company for his own 
well being. A company which of
fers an easy method of purchase 
for its securities is setting up the 
opportunity for an investment 
against the future in the same 
measure as it does in offering ad
vancement on the job.
As mentioned previously, the 
above considerations have purpose
ly been made elastic so that they 
will fit any number of companies 
in various lines of endeavor. There 
are, undoubtedly, other individual 
considerations which a man must 
consider before allying himself 
with one particular organization, 
but these will depend very largely 
on local conditions and must be 
met and handled as they occur.
The important thing is the recog
nition of the fact that these fac
tors represent a very vital part of 
a young mans entry into the busi
ness world and that a closer study 
of the problemalong scientific 
lines is becoming a greater neces
sity from day to day. We feel that 
it is well for the college graduate 
to know that personnel depart
ments of companies throughout the 
country are as anxious to see prop
er placement made as are the men 
themselves and that in most cases 
whole-hearted co-operation can be 
gained from this source in working 
out such a plan as has been set 
forth here.
The above mentioned factors 
seem to make up a very complicat
ed program for the college man to 
carry out, and it is true that con
siderable effort will have to be ex
pended in order to arrive at a suc
cessful conclusion. Yet the plan is 
far from being unworkable, especi
ally if the man begins its study 
early in his college career. We be
lieve, further, .that the time is not 
far distant when the necessity of 
such a program will be so univer
sally recognized that courses in vo
cational guidance will be a regular 
part of our college curricula.
General Patrick, Chief of Air 
Service, Main Speaker 
at Exercises
The First Annual Assembly of the 
night students will be held next Fri
day night in the Music Hall. The 
purpose of the meeting is to give 
opportunity to the night students of 
the three night colleges to meet each 
other socially and to establish closer 
bonds of association.
As the principal speaker at the ex
ercises, Dr. Baker has secured the 
acceptance of Major General Mason 
M. Patrick, Chief of the Air Service 
of the U. S. Army, who will speak on 
"Aircraft in National Defense. Gen
eral Patrick, a native of West Vir
ginia, has had a long and enviable 
record as a soldier, winning promo
tion during the World War to the 
post as Chief of the Air Service with 
the A. E. F. In 1921, he was ap
pointed as Chief of the Air' Service 
of the U. S'. Army.
Because of his war record and his 
subsequent efforts to place the Air
craft Service on a firm and substan
tial basis for both defensive and 
economic reasons, General Patrick is 
one of the best known army officers 
in the country. The United States 
has honored him with the award of 
the Distinguished Service Medal, and 
foreign nations have honored him by 
appointments to Commander in the 
Legion of Honor, Commander of the 
Order of St. Maurice and Lazarus, 
Knight Commander in the Order of 
the British Empire, and Commander 
of the Crown of Belgium.
Other features of the program at 
the assembly will include music by 
the symphony Orchestra of the 
Music Department, whose personnel 
is about 50% night students, and im
portant announcements by President 
Baker.
Special invitations to attend the as
sembly have been sent out to more 
than 900 employers of the Carnegie 
night students. The meeting will 
also be open to relatives of the 
students.
Plans for the assembly call for the 
dismissal of all night classes next 
Friday night at 8:15 to permit the 
students to go direct to the Carnegie 
Music where he exercises are sche
duled to begin at 8:30.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Grace Reformed Church
Dithrldge and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Bible Class ...........................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 AM. 
League of Youth at 6:30 P. M.
PITTSBURGH PLAY HOUSES]
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20
Basket Ball Pitt Varsity and riches...........................
Iphigonia.....................................................8:80 I. M.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21.
i{Iplngbniftn.....................................................8:80 P. M.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22
Chapel.............................................................12:50 P. M.,
<Ipliigeuia,,.1...................................................8:30 P. M.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 23 
EXAM INATIONS BEG IN
Iphigenia.  ...........................--.................-4:00 P. M.
Vlpliigenia..................................-................8:30 P. M..
Niglit School Assembly.......................................8:30 P.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 24
*  Ipliigenia  ....................................................2:15 P. M.
 Iplngejlia J.....................................................8:30 P. M.:
............At Pitt
Little Theater
Little Theater
Little Theater 
Little Theater
, Little Theater 
, Little Theater 
M., Music Hall
, Little Theater 
, Little Theater
PLEBE DRAMATS WILL GIVE
MATINEE FRIDAY AFTERNOON
The patrons of tho Little Theater 
were much pleased by tho perform
ance of the freshman drumats in 
their first production,. 'Tphlgenta of 
Tauris, which opened last night for 
a week's run. They wore taken un
awares by so finished a presentation, 
which is quite a credit to the new 
students who have worked unceasiugly to make it a success.
There will be a student matinee on 
Friday, January 23, at 4:00 oclock in 
the Little Theater.
DAVIS
Henry S'antrey and his Cameo Re
cord Orchestra will head the bill at 
this theatre this week. In liis or
chestra, Mi. Santrey has a group of 
ten temperamental soloists, from 
which one may gather that the en
semble will be one to afford the lis
teners much enjoyment.
Adelaide and Hughes, who have 
been called the American Represen
tative Dancers, will share the honors j 
with this Orchestra on the bill. These 
two terpsichoreans will have a little 
skit called Tlie Elopement of the 
Toys.
Harry & Anna Seymour, who are 
really brother and sister, will give 
Breezy Bits of Mirth and Melody. 
Mr. Colby Davies will be at the piano. 
In droll mimicry and exchange of 
cliat and patter, they are not ex
celled by any of the comedy purvey
ors of the present day.
. Thomas F. Swift and a company of 
aiders and abettors will put on a 
Nauglitical Skit called The Gob 
its worth sea-ing!
Ferry Corwey, the musical clown 
will interlace pantomime biiffonery 
with clever musicianship.
Arthur Millard and Minna Marlin 
will play Honeymooning.
Les Pierre ttys will do comic acro
batics.
ture at the Grand this week. This 
picture lias been adapted from tlie 
stage play by the same name, and is 
casted with Blanche Sweet, Bessie 
Love, Robert Agnew, Mathew Betz, 
and others.
In-addition to the picture, Paul 
Zimm and the Chicago Orchestra will 
afford entertainment.
A Larry Semon comedy Kid 
Speed, said to be his greatest, will 
be the third feature of the bill. The 
Topics of the Day will close the 
show.
THE SCHENLEY
Second Church of Christ, Scientist
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 
Announces a
FREE LECTURE ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
r-by------
MISS LUCIA C. COULSON, C. S., OF LONDON, ENGLAND
Member of tlie Board of Lectureship of the Mother Church, the First 
 Church of Christ, Scientist; in Boston, Massachusetts
Thursday, January 22, 1925, 8:15 P. M.
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL, NORTH SIDE 
Ohio Street, Near Federal 
The Public Is Cordially Invited To Attend.
ALVIN
Wildflower is coming back* with the 
samo company.
SHUBERT-PITT
' If you haven't seen Thurston, you 
better go this week.
GRAND
Those Who Dance is the big picDorotiiy Riese and Herbert Hendrie, a musical team with extraordi
nary talent, will be presented as the 
musical attraction at the Schenley 
Tlieater during the entire current 
week.
Lionel Barrymore, the distinguished 
Belasco star, appears in Meddling 
Women, on Monday, Tuesday and 
Wednesday. In support of Lionel 
Barrymore there are two interna
tionally famous stars in the duo per
sonalities of Sigrid Holmquist, known 
as Swedens Mary Pickford, and Dagmar Godowsky, the exotic movie 
vamp. Eddie Lyons will be present
ed in a comedy, Only a Bill Collec
tor. An Aesop's Fable will be 
shown in addition to the latest News 
Film.
The Beloved Brute which will be 
shown on Thursday, Friday, and Sat
urday, is a picture of open spaces, 
the dance hall, the traveling circus 
and a near lynching bee. It features 
Marguerite de la Motte, Victor McLaglen, William Russell, Mary Alden 
and Stuart Holmes. The photodrama 
is an adaptation from tlie famous 
novel by Kenneth Perkins. Felix 
the Cat, Sportlight Film, and a News I 
Film will also be shown.
ALL
SEATS
25cGRILOMLFSEATS
25cTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
Direction Enterprises Theaters Co., HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
LIONEL 
BARRYMORE
Americas Most Distinguished 
Actor in His Greatest Screen 
Masterpiece
MEDDLING 
WOMEN
Eddie Lyons in Only a Bill 
Collector, Comedy; Latest 
Camera News and an Aesops 
Fable.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
THE
BELOVED
BRUTE
With Marguerite de la Motte, 
Victor McLaglen, William Rus
sell, Mary Alden and Stuart 
Holmes.
A picture with the tang of the 
sawdust ring.
Felix the Cat in a new comedy. 
News and Sportlight Films.
SUNDAY, J
Music Department Recital.............
FRIDAY. J. 
FIRST SEMESTER ENDS
\
Migration of the Rat.
The rat was carried from India and jANUARY 25
.....-v? ^ kittle Theater I .eri.ja to England In 1727, by 1750 had
ivNL AR l 30 j ni&de its way to France and thence
 spread throughout Europe.
All WeekAdded Musical Attraction 
| Dorothy Riese and Herbert Hendrie
g Artists with extraordinary musical talents, singing harmonious meloj 
| dies with pleasing vigor and sway.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
C A NMEWB EPIMLPWRG C
Cross Word Puzzle No. 5
By STANTON WILLIAMSFRAT-DOM TEAMS 
SECURE FINE START
Twelve Contests Are Waged; 
Games Will Resume 
After Exams
! The lid of the 1925 Inter-Fraternity| Dormitory Basket Ball League was 
I pried off with a bang last week when 
| twelve games were gotten off the 
schedule. Only one of these was for! feited, th majority or the others beI ing close, hard-fought games. Credit 
I 1!is due the Physical Education Dej partment for the manner in which i the contests were run off, promptly 
, and efficiently, and satisfactorily to j spectators, o which there .were a 
I goodly number, as well as players.
A bitterly contested game resulted 
j the first night when Pi Kappa Alpha, 
! last year's champions, was forced 
j overtime to defeat Theta Xi and 
prove that they are still in the race.
I Kohne for the victors, and Horni bostel and Dyan for T. X., did the 
! best work. Delta Upsilon with Stults 
I and Goodwin starring,- just nosed 
j out Beta Sigma Rho by one point; 
j while Sigma Nu rather easily beat 
Delta Mu, due mainly to the playingThe key words in this puzzle are very familiar to every Carnegie man 
and woman. They look easy, but watch outsome of them are stickers.
The puzzle last week was so easy that we are not going to publish the j of Maurer and Sheppard, 
-answers this week. We might say, however, that there was a misprint in 
the definition for No. 27; the answer was cave, not save as indicated by 
the definition.
We have given out a large number of designs to persons wishing to 
make up a puzzle, but so far few have been turned in for publication. Let 
us have them, and see your puzzle in print.
Horizontal.
1A well-known man at Carnegie.
6Laughs.
8Dwelling (coloq.).
11Part of the body.
12To rest on the haunches (past 
tense).
14A sort of luncheon.
15A college (Abbr.).
16President of Womens A. A. at 
C. I. T.
18Province in Canada (Abbr.).
20A conjunction.
21A struggle (not a "tea struggle).
22A thing necessary in kissing.
24A continent (Abbr.).
25What some students wont, have 
after the Prom." (Some dont 
have it now.)
26A girls name.
28Mud.
29An aid (Abbr.).
30An international ' organization 
(Abbr.).
33A sharp blow.
35Point of the compass.
37Prefix meaning above, beyond.
38Helper.
39Amphoteric base (Symbol for).
40To perceive mentally.
42Player on Plaid basket ball team 
(nickname).
44Signal of distress (Abbr.).
45A fish.
47Appointed to arrive.
48What some men take at the Prom.
49Popular social event (Coloq.).
51Great in quantity.
52Jurist well known at C. I. T.
Vertical.
1Electrical unit.
2A state (Abbr.).
3Bellow.
4A Catholic school (Abbr.).
5Point.
6What some men cry for.
7Human ingenuity.
9^A make of automobile.
10Educator who is called the "Fath
er of the public school.
12A kind or class.
13A thin piece of clay.
15A gathering place for students.
16What a fellow must be to play un
der Coach Steffen.
17Nothing.
19Term applied to Carnegie ath
letes.
21Leader of a popular orchestra.
23A checkered pattern.
25To utter loudly.
27Poisonous snake.
31With (Latin).
32What this country is since pro
hibition (Coloq.).
33Place for birds.
34Recline.
36Lament.
39A conceited individual (Coloq.).
41Always (contraction used by 
poets).
43A stiff flour pudding.
44Thus (Latin).
46The (Spanish, PL).
48Woman under certain religious 
vows.
50An elevation (Abbr.).
51Pronoun.
CHAPLAIN OF PENN FOOT
BALL TEAM WILL ADDRESS
STUDENT MEETING
The Rev. John R. Hart, Jr., one of 
the student-pastors of the University 
of Pennsylvania will speak at a mass 
meeting of the students and faculty 
of Pitt and Carnegie on Sunday, Feb
ruary 8, 1925, at the Parish House of 
St. Peters Episcopal Church at the 
corner of Forbes street and Craft
avenue. Mr. Hart is one of the best 
liked men on the campus at Penn 
an indication of his popularity being 
the fact that he was chosen by the 
Penn Football Team as chaplain on 
their trip to the coast this year. He 
is an ex-Penn baseball man and all
round athlete. Those who attended 
the Silver Bay conferences will re
member his strong personality and 
friendliness. More details of his visit 
will be given later.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
THE ONLY
NOWLKK8: 3L:: 
0:RP8K N3.T
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbea
WRIGUYSlifter every meal /
Convincing.
Election Candidate  Now, my 
friends, when you vote you dont want 
to vote for a pig in n poke; you want 
to vote for me and get the genuine 
article!London Tlt-BIts.
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
| evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday eveningsPrivate lessons 
j by appointment.
This is 'a School
Not a public dance hall.
A pleasant and agreeable 
weet and a 5 - a -s-f-i-n-g 
benefit as well.
Good for teeth, .breath 
and digestion.
Makes the next cigar 
taste better.
Europeasa Totssrs
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
4>4 Days
$395 and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
For full particulars address
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Tours Division 
XIO East 42nd Street New York
DXT LKTSU RSXraTc UT IefXo
More than 450 courses in I-Iistory. English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoolog , Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your coliegc program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
furnished on request. Write today.
95 ELLIS HALLCfje Unfoetitp of (Cijicago
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
STEFFEN. THE JURIST. AND THE FACULTY
Wally Steffen, the coach, did not disappoint the vast audience that gath
ered at the football luncheon at the William Penn Saturday. He told every
thing that was to bo told in a football way; told why the Tartan machine, 
at the outset so discouraging, was so successful in the end; told why the boys 
fought so hard that they will go down in Carnegie Tech history as the 
Fightin-est team that over represented the Plaid; told why the outlook for 
next year SHOULD bo bright: and told it all in a way that gripped the 
heart-strings of his hearers, kept them tense, alert, grateful throughout his 
discourse.
But Steffen, the jurist, had something to say. He oxploded a bombshell 
when he declared that he did not see the justice of denying a student the 
right to represent his college in athletic competition just because that 
student could not Quite come up to the mark arbitrarily set by any college 
faculty, a mark from which there was no deviation or exception. He defied 
any group of men to set any mark that would be fair to every student, especi
ally those who would try faithfully to reach the mark hut could not. This 
could be due possibly, to the inct that the boy's previous experience and 
heredity was not conducive to producing in him a high typo of-mentality, one 
which would successfully enable him to cope with men originating from 
literary stock. In such cases, Steffeu said, the boy should bo allowed to 
represent his school.
Judge Steffen admitted, however, as did Graduate Manager Overend a 
little earlier, that in possibly nine cases out of ten the faculty was right. 
The student did not try faithfully. But in the other case, the student should 
have allowances made for him.
There is food for thought in the Judge's words. Everyone at Carnegie 
Tech could profit from them.
PLEBE QUINT LOSES 
TO W.-J. YEARLINGS
Apparently Underestimate 
Vice-Presidents and Are 
Routed
Wednesday saw another close game 
when Kappa Sigma bowed to Beta 
Theta Pis last quarter rush. Ver 
little scoriing was done for the first 
three quarters, six points apiece be
ing the total, but in the final period 
Smith and Bastiau rang up enough 
to offset Forbes good work for the 
losers. Diffley and Koppes did much 
to insure Della Tau Deltas win from 
Welch Hall the same eveninf.
The only really one-sided game was 
Thursday night, Scobell Hall having 
little difficulty in defeating Delta 
Phi Delta 37 to 1. The nearest to 
an upset occurred in Kappa Epsilon's 
victory over Sigma Epsilon Phi, SikI 
and Baum being largely responsible. 
The win of Alpha Tau Omega from 
Henderson was not unexpected, howeven.
At present the teams showing up 
strongest seem to be the PI Kups, 
D. U.s, Betas, Kappa Sigs and Scobell Hall. This is open to argument 
naturally, as the winners usually 
look best, but is a fair estimate of 
the material displayed to date. Half 
of the league has yet to be seen on 
the floor anyway.
There will bo no games for next 
two weeks on account of examina
tions, etc., but play will be resumed 
on February 3.
Results of games played so far
are:
NATIONAL
Alpha Tau Omega................................26
Henderson Hall ...................................19
Dolta Upsilon .......................................12
Beta Sigma Rho....................................11
Pi Kappa Alpha....................................14
Theta XI.................................................11
Woodlawn Club ..................................16
Boss Hall ............................................... -1
AMERICAN
Beta Theta PI........................................14
Kappa Slgnm ....................................... 6
Kappa Epsilon .....................................28
Sigma Epsilon Phi............................... 9
Sigma Nu ............................................18>
Delta Mu .............................................. 5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon..............
Acacia .....................................Forfeit
FEDERA TE
Delta Tau Delta .................................17
Welch Hall ........................................... 8
Kappa Sigma Rho........................... 20
Iota Sigma Delta................................ 7
McGill Hall .........................................22
Delta Chi Rho...................................... 7
Scobel Hall ...........................................37
Delta Phi Delta.................................... 1,
TARTANS MEET TEST
Coach Lubics proteges will stack up against their old rivals this evening at Trees gym. The chances are that there will not be half enough room 
to accommodate the large crowd that will clamor for admittance, so it is 
urged that if you want to see the game be there early. Trees gym is 
smallmuch too small for a game of such proportions and vital interest.
Since resuming athletic relations with our friendly enemy the serios 
in basket ball is deadlocked. Pitt last year won from the Tartans in our now 
gym, while the Plaid reciprocated by winning from the Panther in Motor 
Square Garden, at that time Pitts home lloor. The game tills evening will 
give one team or the other an edge until the teams again meet in February.
It is.hoped that Donohoe, Lynch and Captain Midge Matter will bo at 
their best for the fray this evening, though it, is reported that these mon 
secured minor injuries at Wash-Jeff which are liable to take the keen edge 
off their playing. This game means a great deal and every man on the 
Carnegie team must be at his best if we are to win.
CARNEGIE FIGHTING SPIRIT
From what we have been able to learn rogardlng the Plobe-W. & J. Freshmen game last, week, we only wish that the members of the Plobo team 
could have heard Wally Steffens inspired address at the luncheon Saturday. 
We have been told that the Carnogle yearlings wont into the fray feeling 
over-confident, underestimating tlielr opponents. Wallys remarks would 
certainly have been appropriate and timely.
It must be rememborod that the Plebo team, according to Coach John 
Irwin, does not,possess a wealth of material. That tho Plobes made a good 
showing in their first game against Penn State was duo mainly, it is said, 
to the light they1 displayed. Thoy knew they had to battle for ovory point, 
and they did. At Wash-Jeff it was different. Tho result was practically a 
rout.
Plebes, you are meeting our traditional rivals tonight. Just how do 
you feel about it?
Read the Telescope column on tho Alumni Pago of tills issue, 
learn some of the high lights oC tho football luncheon.
You will
Bert Munhoimer sure did como In for somo sharp digs in tho courso of 
tho afternoon. Novor mind, Bert. Wally was just paying you back for tying 
up his clothes Into knots during tho football season. Or didnt you do it?
That noarly reminds us. Wo don't romomber whether It ./as Staycomb 
No. 1 or Staycomb No. 2, or was it Max Bastlan who asked Bert one ovoning 
the subject of stiff beards and shaving having como up for discussion 
"Bort, dont you think I havo a stiff board? You know, my father has an 
awfully stiff beard." "You must tako after your mother," said Bort.
Some of the speakers at tho luncheon who are promlnont In civic af
fairs expressed surpriso over tho fact that Mr. Lanahan was such a. wonderful 
toastmaster. Thoy stated that horoaftor tho Chamber of Cominorco would 
not be caught sleeping when In nood of a real l.oastmastor. O. K. to that 
statement. Mr. Lanahan Is tho host we over heard, and wo pride oursolvos 
with having watched somo good onos In action.
Basket ball leaguers, sot asldo your togs for a couple of weoks and pass 
thoso exams. Plenty of time to rosumo basket ball after making a Hook 
of P. Qs.
To those toams that lost: Cheer up, thero Is a season yot beforo you,
with doubtless a good reason behind you.
May the best team win.
Making Iron Rustproof.
According to Professor BarIT, If Iron 
Is subjected to tho action of superheat
ed steam at a temperature of 050 de
grees Centigrade for. from six to seven 
hours It becomes covered with a coat
ing which Is proof against rusting or 
the action of a file. A great advantage 
of the system Is that. If a part Is 
left untreated and begins to rust tho 
rusting does not spread sideways to 
the treated portions.
MUSICAL CLUBS TO 
LEAVE CITY FEB. 23
Mandolin and Glee IHWD Will 
Go to Springdale For 
Concert Friday
The Plebo baskot ball team was 
defeated last Friday evening by tho 
W. & J. Froshmon. Tho score In 
this, the second gnmo of tho Plebes' 
season, was 26 to 16. Tho game, 
on Carnegie's part, was characterized 
by loose teamwork and a resort to 
tho individualistic typo of playing.
To those who saw tho Plobes in 
action against the Penh State Fresh
men tho aggregation of last. Friday 
night did not look like the same 
team. The only explanation offered 
is that tho Freshmen underestimated 
their opponents, and were swept off 
their feet by tho President's strong 
attack. Many of tho Plaids attempts 
at the basket missed by only tho 
narrowest of margins, and thoy were 
not offered many foul shots by moans 
of which they might have narrowed 
down their opponents lead. The contost was, as a. whole, exceedingly 
fast and typified by tho clean play
ing of both teams. The score at tho 
end of the first half was 12 to 9, in 
favor of tho home team.
All eyes are now centered on tho 
Pitt game of this week, and tho fol
lowers of the Freshman squad are 
willing to forgive them their two de
feats garnered thus far If they make 
a good, showing against tho Panther 
Cubs. The Pitt yearlings are known 
to havo a very good squad this sea
son and it will tako tho best brand
of baskot ball that tho 'Sklbo Plebes 
aro capable of. to beat them.
The lineup:
Plobes16. Vico Presidents26.
Monroo .................F............... Mcllnoa
Grossklos .......F.................. Vedolt
Rltts ....................C................... Crlm
Cowan ..................G....... McCullough
Sebastian .......G...................... Bier
SubstitutionsSturbls for Mcllnoa, 
Spills for McCullough, Illlg for Mon
roe, Bromley for Ritts.
Field goalsMclllnoa 4, Sturbls 1, 
Vedolt 1, Crlm 3, Ritts 3, Cowan 3.
FoulsCarnegie, 6 out of 9; 
Wash-Joff, 2 out of <i.
RoforooBuck Baird, Ponn State.
WHOS WHO
IN BASKETBALL
WALLY LYNCH
Tho only player of last years fresh
man team to oarn a regular berth on 
tho varsity so far this soason is Waldo 
Lynch; who is going groat guns at 
present and getting hotter with each 
succeeding game. Wally oarned tho 
position on account of his ability to 
diagnose tho plays and broalc them 
up. Wally is a good shot from tho 
foul line and a clever floor man. Ho 
plays a guard position along with 
Dyko Beode.
Lynch comes from Rochester, N. Y., 
where ho played for four years on the 
High School team of that place. Ro
chester at that time had a groat team. 
I.ast year Wally played third base on 
the Carnegie baseball team. Ho is 
quite active in school affairs, being 
President of tho Sophomore Class in 
Arts School, a membor of Theta Xi 
fraternity, and of Druids. Lynch is 
taking tho Architectural course.
PLAID SWIMMERS MAKE 
CREDITABLE SHOWING
Reversed Conditions.
"You are careful to set an example 
for your son?" "I used to try to set 
him an example," replied the serious 
man. But now I study him atten
tively to asc-rrtaln what kind of clothes 
I ought to wear and the style of con
versation that Is considered smart.
Interfraternity Basketball League
STANDINGS
NATIONAL
Won.Lost.Pctg.
Alpha Tau Omega ___. 101.000
Delta Upsilon ................. 101.000
Pi Kappa Alpha ........... 101.000
Woodlawn ....................... 101.000
Beta Sigma Rho ........... 01.000
1.000
Henderson ....................... 01.000
Theta Xi.........................1.000
AMERICAN
Won.Lost.Pctg.
Beta Theta. Pi ..............01.000
Kappa Epsilon ..............01.000
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..01.000
Sigma Nu ....................... 101.000
1000
1.000
Kappa Sigma ................1.000
Sigma Epsilon Phi. 01.000
FEDERAL
Won.Lost.Pctg.
01.000
01.000
McGill .............................01.000
01.000
Delta Phi Delta ............1.000
1.000
1.000
Welch .............................1.000 J
When Florence Was Capital.Scientific Child.Florence has bad some previous asRobert, thotour-year-oldBoclation with the Italiancourt, toiscientific manlad lived inthe coun-in 1864 It was made thetemporarytry most of his short life.Ono day acapitalof Italy, and In the followincaller,wishing to make friends with
year the king and courtremovesthe little fellow, took him on Ills
there. In the ^ame year the first asknee and askedAre there any falr-sembly of the Italian parliament tookes In your woods here, Robert? No.place there. Not until 1871 did therepliedRobertpromptly, but theregovernment remove to Rome as theare plenty of edible fungi.Youth'scapital of Italy.Companion.
The reporter did not go to tho re
hearsal of tho Musical Clubs Sunday, 
because he was sure that he would be 
in the way. Ho heard tho Manager 
say that the Clubs Avero hard at work 
for tho first concert away from Great
er Pittsburgh, to be given Friday, 
tho 23, so he knew that tho directors 
would be putting the men through 
secret practices.
However, it is alleged, as the say
ing goes, that the men in tho Clubs 
are gradually being whipped Into 
shape and that the Mandolin Club is 
better than evereven better than 
last week. Director Johnson of the 
Glee Club says he has a fine club with 
the exception of the First Tenor sec
tion. He asks that any of the mem
bers of the Drama Department whose 
voics may no have changed who care 
to come around and see him at their 
earliest convenience. He regrets that 
the Engineers have no First Tenor 
voices, for he says they make excelled 
bass materialhoping not to offend 
any Engineer by mis-spelling bass 
and as Baritones, they are fair.
Manager Lumlqulst has oeen East 
over the vacation, and he says that 
things look pretty good out that way. 
The writer was East, also, and he 
thinks the sameboth think about 
different things. However, Cal says 
he is going to get the clubs east of 
Edgewood If he has to take them in 
President Stimmlers car. He says they 
have tried for a number of years to 
get Into the land of culture, but some' 
how the field Is crowded by such 
clubs as Brown, Dartmouth, Prince
ton, and the other greater colleges.
This Friday evening tho Clubs are 
going out to Sprlngdnlo to put on a 
real snappy concert, and It Is hoped 
tlmt everything will go well. Spring
dale is a dandy town to play In, and 
the concert should be well received.
In tho opon moot at. tho 1. A. A. on 
Saturday ovoning four of Carnogias 
swlmming team woro ontorod and al* 
liiough no polnts woro garnored by 
tho Tartan, a vory orodltablo showIng was mudo.
Tho mon ontorod In tho nicol woro 
Bob Follansboo and Ross In tho 50- 
yard dasli and Charlio MQrlli and 
Don Gaylor in tho broast strolco, YB 
sald boforo nono of thoso mon placod, 
bui. Follansboo Look a tlilrd in bis boat, 
whlch provod lo bo tho fastosi, boat 
in th C0-yard dasbos, as tho il rat two 
mon In Bob's boat placod finti, and 
spcond in tho final boat.
Tliis I tho finii, competitivo inviliimlng tlmt any of thoso mon havo 
dono whLlo mombors of Carnoglo's 
first swlmming, and tho resulta woro 
partloularly gratifylag to Coach Ilotilcomu wlio consldors tUat all of libi 
offorts woro not In valn.
A genomi lmprovomont bus boon 
noted In tho Jiquad or lato and boforo 
tho soason ls ovor It would not bo 
aurprising to soo somo Oarnegie mon 
llstod among tho wlnnors In somo of 
tho locai inoots.
WILLY DONOHOE
One of the best forwards on the 
Tartan baskotball team of recent 
years Is tho distinction acquired by 
Wilson W. Donohoe. Ho made Ills 
lottor two years ago, but was not in 
school last fall owing to difilculties 
which could not be ovorcomo. Two 
years ago ho was in a largo measure 
responsible for tho dofoat handed 
Grove City after the Grovors had been 
riding over every ono of their oppon
ents and establishing a wonderful rec
ord. Donlo Is well knowu on account 
of his football ability, and Steffen Is 
expecting groat things from him in 
football next soason.
Donohoo was president of the fresh
man class In Science School two yoars 
ago, and had boon oloctod prosidont 
of tho sophomoro class tho following 
year, but did not return to school. Ho 
ls rated a sophomoro this year, and 
Is taking tho Machinery Production 
Courso In Industrios at tills tlmo.
Donlo halls from Edgowood. Ho 
was a star basoball and baskotball 
player on tho Edgowood High team 
Xor a couple of yoars. The pocullar 
thing about him is that ho novor 
played football until ho camo to Car
negie. At t.lio prosont tlmo Donohoo 
is working hard to remain ollglblo for 
baskotball noxt. somostor. Ho is a 
member of tho Delta UpHllon fratern
ity.
Babylon Had Woman'n College.
In an ancient Babylon province 
there have been discovered records 
on clay tablots belonging to the period 
of about 2400 B. O., showing that awoman's "college" or "university" had 
boon established In a suburb of tho 
city called Bunia, and that womon had 
equal rights with moil In commercial, 
property -1111(1 political affairs.
TYPEWRITTEN AND COPY 
WORK
AT REASONABLE PRICES 
Havo that, thesis typowrltton 
and got, a bettor grade. 
Work Absolutely Guaranteed. 
Special Rato to Students 
25o per shoot.
rInnnn Sophie 8ohutzor 
010 Boneduni Troo Building 
221 Fourth Avonuo 
Phono Court 4127
Fato of "First of tho Tribunes."
On tho eighth of October In 13G4 
RIenzI, the Italian patriot, who headed 
a revolution at Romo which overthrew 
tho power of the aristocracy, was kill
ed. He bad been placed at the bead 
of the Roman government under tho 
title of tribune of the people. His suc
cess went to Ills head and he was 
finally killed In a riot which Ills ilLconsldered conduct had provoked.
I Oakland Savings & f
Trust Co..t,
Mei.Voer Federal Reservo
System. .j.
Capital - -....................$300,000.00 
Surplus..........................$300,000.00 .j.
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 *t*
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
TUXEDO AND FULL DRE88 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All now and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
006 Stato Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avonuo, Pitsburgh, Pa.
C. M. STATJFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and 
Supplies for Students.
mmmmmmmmmmmmmnmmS
General
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces u series of eight Sat
urday Evening 8upper Dances 
In the Rose Room at 9 o'clock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Davea 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
unparalleled 
(90I& Inclusivelburs 
*> EUROPE
GRI LOM OFM CANENWB CPIDXFEDR
Large choice of 
itineraries: tours 
by leading Liners 
every few days 
during season
Rate from /255
Four uxeki all expftuc tour,viti ting Paris. 
Versatila 'Bruiteli, Antwerp, London,etc.
DWM Reputation is Your Guarantee!
THOS. COOK & SON
PHILADELPHIA 
130 South 15th Street
Chivalry.
The ago of chivalry Is never pact 
di long aa there Is a wrong left unredressed on earth, or a man or a 
woman left to say: I will redress
that wrong or spend my life In the at
tempt."Charles Kingsley.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At heridan Square East Liberty
/

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1925
EMmdOW NEDL&
APPOINT ALUMNUS 
REGIONAL OFFICER
M. V. Shortley to Adjust 
Claims of Sick, Disabled 
and Dependent Veterans
[ CLAN NEWS j
THENEW YORK CLAN
Tho Nov/ York Clan committee for 
tho annual banquet 1 reporting great 
stride. Tho big affair will bo hold 
on February seventh, ul the McAlpln 
Hotel.
Beautiful "El Patio(Spanish
M. J. Shortloy, formerly the placej Room) was Selected by the comMEMBERS OF FACULTY AT Art M _  1 CARN EGIE MOURNS OVER
WASH. SCIENCE GATHERING r00tD2ll 7YvCn HOnOrCU PAULS SUDDEN DEATH
ment officer of the Pennsylvania dis
trict, has been put In charge of tho 
new regional office for the adjust
ment of the claim of tho Hick, dis
abled, and dependent ex-service mon 
at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mr. Shortloy served In the A. E. 
V. uh a lieutenant, and \vas In charge 
of wounded casual In Franco, Ho 
was educatod at Carnogio, Duquesne 
University, and tho Catholic Univer
sity of America.
Recently, he PWE appointed region
al manager for the adjustment of 
claims for tho ox-servlco men at 
Pittsburgh. Tho work in which Mr. 
Shortley 1b engaged has grown rapid
ly, and at prosent there are measures 
under way to entabliHh five control 
areas; namely, Boston, -New York, 
New Orleans, Chicago and Sun Fran
cisco. In Pennsylvania two regional 
offices havo boon established: one at 
Pittsburgh and tho other at Philadel
phia. Formorly Philadelphia was the 
only district headquarters, and this 
served lor the entire state. But with 
tho new system of rehabilitation, on
ly one-half of the state will bo under 
tho Philadelphia headquarters. Bet
tor results are now to bo expected.
Rapid stridos have boon made in 
making this a most efficient system, 
and according to tho report sent In 
by Gen. Frank T. Hines, director ol 
tho Unitod States Veterans Bureau; 
the entire plan of decentralization is 
ready for operation. This system 
littB igono into effect more rapidly 
than Gen. Hines anticipated.
It is quite an honor that a former 
Carnogio man was placed in such a 
responsible position. Mr. Shortley is 
a man of whom Carnogio may justly 
bo proud.
mlttee. Wilson's Orchestra will syn
copate. Several prominent guests 
will favor the occasion. A typical 
McAlpln dinner will bo served 
promptly at seven o'clock. The key
note of tho affair is best expresed: 
"On with tho Dance."
Tho first announcomont was sent 
out over a wldo area this past week. 
Members of other Clans who may be 
in Now York on February seventh 
are cordially Invited to attend. For
mal invitations to send representa
tives aro being despatched to other 
Clans.
If there are any alumni In this sec
tion who aro not listed in tho Direc
tory or who do not receive the Tar
tan, tho committee would appreciate 
your sending their names and ad
dresses. Members may invite a few 
of their friends to the affair if they 
so advise in advance.
Tho Interest manifested assures a 
larger crowd than ever before. Spac
ious El Patio may have to be aug
mented by additional space. New 
York officers are listed elsewhere in 
these columns. Alumni will kindly 
advise them at once.
Another big evening is expected on 
the occasion of tho Basket Ball Came 
hero with C. C. N. Y., on February 
twenty-first: Tho alumni will
doubtedly attend the game in a body 
and hold a party after it is over.
FORMER CARNEGIE MAN
HAS WORKS IN ART SHOW
Kevin OCallahan, formorly a studont in tho Applied Art Department 
at Carnogio, bus nn exhlblt of wood 
cuts on display al: Tochnlcal High 
School, Buffalo, New York.
O'Callahan carne to Carnogio from 
thls high school Ilvo yoars ago and 
romalnod at Carnogio untll last 
sprjng. He was well known about 
tho campus, boing a mombnr of tho 
Puppot Staff and on noverai Art 
Ball Commlttoo.
OCallahnns worlc is charaotori/.od 
hy smallnoHH of lino and dotali. Ho 
in at bis beat In bis fino froo lance 
worlc, mOBt of whloh Iv In block prlnt.
8ECOND PRELIM PROM TICKETS 
NOW ON SALE
(Continued From Pago One.) 
havo boon provallod upon to furnlnh 
tho painted posters which havo ap
peared during tho paid, few days, and 
over 750 invitations havo been sent 
to Alumni, no that ovory means in 
being used to Insure that the Prom 
will be well attended, Tho Oocoral. 
lug committee also, In actively ongaged In helping to nmlco thin Prom 
one whloh will be long remembered, 
Tho programs have boon selected 
as boing worthy of Carnegie's most 
successful Prom. Thoy will bo on 
graved and along with tho favors 
will add materially to tho grandeur 
of tho affair.
'So como now, Juniors, make haste 
and procure thy tickets at once.
HARRISBURG CLAN
Dr Baker attended the meet\ng of YaTSitV BanOUCt
the American Association for the AdJ 1
vancement of Science during the ---------------
holiday He road a paper on 'The, g ^ and Presentation of 
Rights of the Unintelligent. Other r 
members of the faculty who attend-1 
ed this meeting were Mrs. Hinelinej 
of the M. M. faculty and Professor 
Hower of the Physics Department in 
Science.
Tills was the annual mseting of the 
Association and.was held in Washing
ton. Those who attended came from 
every part of the country, and many 
of them from college faculties.
TELESCOPE
New Instructor in 
Printing Department
Gold Footballs Are 
Features
William E. Orr of Texas to 
Succeed James Creech
On January 2, the Harrlpburg Clan 
hold their annual holiday party for 
Carnogio alumni and students. Every
body assembled for this fete at the 
Harrisburg Civic Club.
Real Christmas spirit prevailed. 
The ballroom was decorated in 
Christmas rod and green and a large 
Christmas tree which was appro
priately ornamented. The largo plaid 
Carnogio Banner gave tho final touch 
to the hall.
John Todd, President of the Clan, 
presided at tho party. Don" Mawhlnney, "Ed Croene, "Cy" Comfort, 
"Rich Lawrlo and Henry Shnub 
woro sneakers at tho dinner. After 
all had been fed, tho football films were 
shown, giving a review of tho 1021 
Carnogio Football Team In action.
An announcement has been made 
this week to the effect that William 
F. Orr, a'practical printer and press
man, has been appointed instructor 
in presswork in the Department of 
Printing at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Tho appointment be
comes effective immediately.
The newcomer is a native of Texas. 
Formerly he held the position of in
structor in tho School of Printing at 
the South Dakota State College, in 
Brookings, S. Dak.; and ho has had 
several years experience as a press
man, a foreman pressman, and man
ager in printing establishments in 
Ripon, Wis., Baraboo, Wis. and Beav
er Dam, Wis.
Mr, Orr succeeds James E. Creech, 
who left Carnegie to accept an ap
pointment as superintendent of the 
printing department of a newspaper 
in Hollywood, Fla.
Another change In the printing de
partment is the promotion of John 
C. Martin. Mr. Martin has been in
structor in machine composition for 
a number of years, and he has re
cently been appointed Head Instruc
tor In the Department' of Printing.
NEW YORK CLAN OFFICERS
OF COMING YEAR ELECTED
STEFFEN SPEAKS AT
CLAN LUNCH
(Continued From rage Oue.) 
ing. It lias been of some embarrass
ment to me in my legal work, but... 
Ive completely reversed my views on 
giving it up. Coaching football is like 
a fatal disease; when it once gets in
to the blood, you* cant give it up."
His talk was one worth listening to, 
as everyone who was there will read
ily attest.
Most of the credit for the success 
goes to graduate manager Buddy Overand. He worked hard on the affair, 
and the results speak for themselves. 
It is hoped that the future luncheons 
may be as good as the one given for 
the team of 1024.
Riches Are Dangerous
Riches without law are more dan
gerous than Is poverty without law. 
Henrv Wurd RponbmAVo Specialize lu 
STUDENTS
DRAWINGOUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A"'; for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
At tho recent meeting of tho Now 
York Clan, the elections for tho en
suing year woro hold and tho follow
ing mon oleotod,
Prenldont, J. M. Gutor, 15 Park Row, 
N. Y. C.
Vice ProHidont, J. A. Cameron, 13(1 
Park Ave., Tuckahoe, N. Y,
Socretary and Treasurer, S. A. 
Smith, K Went 40th 'St., N, Y. <!.
Publicity, It. II. Qoldonson, r>or> 
Fifth Avo N. Y.
Theno names and nddronHon will 
Hiipornodo thone published in the Clan 
Directory previous to thin late,
WORK ON SOPH HOP IS DEGUN
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Work in woll under way on this 
dance, bOc.aUHO (lie Sophomoro ofllcors have been planning for it nlnco 
early fall. Bids from many difforout 
orchestras havo boon under consider 
ation for somo tlmo, and tho com
mit loo believes the selection to be a 
good ono. Tho other details are soon 
to be decided.
GENEVA LOSESi AND W. & J.
WINS IN CLOSE GAMES
MR. R. B. MELLON NEW 
TRUSTEE OF CARNEGIE
Mr. Richard Beatty Mellon, a Pitts
burgh banker, has recently been ap
pointed as a trustee of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, to take the 
place of Mr. Lucien W. Scaife, who 
died a short time ago.
Mr. Mellon, who is a native Pitts
burgher, began his career with the 
Ligonior Valley R. R., of which he 
later served as' president. He is now 
president of the Mellon National 
Bank Pittsburgh, and has beeu a 
director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland since 1017.
mmmmmtmmmimmmttmmnnn:
Compliments
of
Skibo lie
umtmmmtmmmtmmmnmmttmmt
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
Tho placo where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORwES ABOVE CRAIG
(Continued From Page One) 
five points. But the game was only 
In its early stages, and Iby courage
ous playing the Presidents were 
forced to do their best to maintain 
the lead which they had gathered. 
The first half ended wri.h the score 
18 to 13 In favor of tno outfit from 
W. & J.
In tho second half tho Plaid1 crept 
n]V to within two points of tho Presi
dents, but were unable to overcome 
(.lie lead, or at any tlmo to assume 
It. The 'efforts of tho Sklbos seemed 
only to cause the Red and Black to 
fight all tho harder to maintain the 
lead over tho entire course. Tho 
defeat which tho Rod and Black had 
Buffered at tho hands of Bethany 
only the night boforo Boomed to havo 
tho effect of making them fight all 
tho harder, and If anything Beomod 
to make, them play their best brand 
of ball. Thoy woro unbeatable, and 
tho Iivv which was chalkedi up 
agaliiBt our boys loaves no bad tast 
Naturally it was a bad pill to take, 
defeat always Jh, but in tills caso it 
was not ono of thoso affairs which 
Is always talked about with caustic 
criticism.
Tho playing of the men was above 
criticism and although there was 
much roughness displayed at times, 
tho origin could not be traced 
to any particular personal desire for 
reciprocation. With one minute to 
go, W. & J. was leading uy two points, 
and before the final whistle blew 
thoy had collected four more due to 
tho efforts of Fredericks, their cap
tain, and1 Eaton.
Fredericks and Eaton were the out
standing players for the Presidents; 
while Lynch and Donahoe kept the 
Tartans in the running with their 
persistent sallies for goals. Unfor 
tunately Wally Lynch was injured in 
a scrimmage in the early part of the 
game, and had to be replaced in the 
third quarter. This was a bad blow 
to Carnegie.
Tonight the Tartans face the cru
cial test of the season. Pitt, with a 
big, fast team will oppose the Plaid at 
Trees gym, and indications point to 
a fast and furious, though friendly 
battle between the two great rivals 
of the city.
Last year these teams broke even 
in a two-game series. The Panther 
took the first earnest from the Tar
tans in the opening game in our new 
gym after playing an extra five-min
ute period, the score being Pitt 2S, 
Carnegie 25. The second game play
ed in Motor Square Garden resulted 
in a victory for the Plaid by a score 
of 31 to 26. It was sweet revenge 
for the earlier defeat.
Tho game tonight will be the first 
of another two-game series this year. 
The noxt game will bo in tho new 
gym at Carnogio on February 13. It 
Is doubtful that Lynch, Donalioe and 
Captain Matter will bo at their best 
this evening, as they woro handled 
rather roughly in tho game Friday 
and havo not fully rocovored for tho 
offects of tho treatment accorded 
them.
The lineup at Washington Friday 
was:
Wash-Jeff-33. Carnegie Toch27.
Friedrichs ..........F............... Donohoe
Eaton ...................F................... Matter
Thomas .............G................. Conrad
Carlin ..................G.................... Lynch
Lvle .....................G..................... Beere
SubstitutionsW. & J.; Bounton 
for Friedrichs, Friedrichs for Boun
ton. Carnegie Tech: Newman for
Conrad, Glanz for Linch, Conrad foj 
Newman, Newman for Conrad, Cool-' 
for Newman. Field goalsFriedrichs
As the daylight faded and the Pitts
burgh smoke hurried the approach of 
dusk, a horde of banqueters stepped 
out of the William Penn Hotel from 
what was probably one of the best 
banquets over staged by Carnegie men. 
Every person present seemed to be 
glad that he had not only identified 
himself with Carnegie but that he was 
present to hear the excellent talks 
given and to eat the splendid menu 
provided by the members of the Pitts
burgh and Varsity Clans in honor of 
the heroes of Carnegie.
Before one oclock, the spacious 
banquet hall, well set with china-lad
en tables, was filling up rapidly. The 
High Lights, Alumni, Members of the 
Faculty, Athletes, Students and
Friends; crowded in and sought out 
their respective places while the har
monious strains of the Collegiate Imps 
permeated the air.
Scarely had the last course been 
served, when the toastmaster, Mr. 
Frank Lanahan, started the program 
of "the Committee. Colonel Church 
being tlie first speaker gave a short 
inspiring talk in which he eulogized 
the football team. Following the
Colonel, Mr. Lanahan introduced Presi
dent Baker as Professor Baker. Dr. 
Bakers talk, given from the heart, 
was right in the spirit of the occasion.
After hearing from the President of 
the Athletic Council Laboon and Orr 
of the Varsity Clan, the toastmaster 
presented the most popular man on 
the campus who was none other than 
Buddy Overend. Buddys talk, which 
was easily presented and well receiv
ed, was followed by a short address 
by John L. Porter, which had the true 
ring of Carnegie Spirit in it. Among 
the many interesting speakers were 
three of the city councilmen, Robert 
Garland, P. J. McArdle, and John S. 
Herron.
All those present were anxious to 
hear from the principal speaker of the 
banquet and after a few words from 
the assistant coach, Bod Waddell, tho 
toastmaster rose to his greatest 
height by setting the stage for the 
great Carnegie coach, Judge Walter 
P. Steffen.
Wally was rapturously received with 
an ovation which could not help but 
touch the heart of the Judge and, if 
such a tiling be possible draw him 
closer to Carnegie and her adherents.
Steffen reviewed the past soason 
and at times lot his hearers in on 
some of his conching methods. He 
praised the team for their persistent 
courage and spirit; pointing out that 
it was not tho individual skill but. 
that by working together as a unit 
with the combined courage of tho 
toam that made possible tho success 
of tho season.
Every one listened eagerly to the 
words uttered by Steffen. Ills remarkable command of an audience 
was displayed as ho talked of football 
ovents and without effort held them 
In a tense state.
The closing part of tho program was 
the handing out of the gold footballs 
awarded to tho varsity men which 
was dono by Wally himself. Each one 
was presontod to its owner with a 
fitting remark which oiijly tendedto 
embarasH somo of tho more bashful 
and modest ones. Eighteen men in 
all received the coveted emblems.
Around the school, in the hustle 
and bustle of life, we are meeting 
many new faces and the old familiar 
ones whom we pass every day. We 
are so busy that we hardly miss one 
individual in our rush. But scarcely 
can one walk across the campus to
day and not miss the familiar salute, 
and the cheery hello which greeted 
uy as we met the familiar figure of 
Paul, "the gardener.
He was always to be seen along the 
walk, on the lawn, or terrace, any 
time of day. Paul never worked by 
whistles. He was on the job any and 
all the time.
Judge Steffen, as he was handing 
out the gold footballs at the Varsity 
Clan Banquet, not only lauded his 
regulars but he praised the scrubs 
or second string men for their faith
ful performance. Two of the awards 
were made to second-string men.
Manager Reed is the proud posses
sor of a gold football carrying the his
torical score.
The Judge is wondering whether 
being married will detract from the
... ,___. _______i.. efficiency of his 140-pound substitute1-Ie will long oe remembered by the , * ,.used so often last season.students of Carnegie.
! The witty toastmaster, Mr. Lanaj ban proved himself equal to the occa! sion if he did have to resort to the 
Corapolis Bull story.Cleveland Clan Holds 
Luncheon and Bridge
____________ | Mefort will probably carry his new
! name, "S'tacomb Number Two as Plans Made for Benefit Bridge christened by Mr. Steffen, for some
and Scholarship Fund
time to come.
The Carnegie Womens Clan of 
Cleveland are putting their Chapter 
on the map by their many activities. 
The Clan held their January Lunch
eon and Meeting on Saturday, Jan
uary 17, at The Alacazare, with Miss 
Jean Gray, Vice-President of the Clan, 
as hostess.
This luncheon and get together 
proved to be an important as well as 
an enjoyable affair. Plans were made 
and the necessary Committees ap
pointed for the Annual Benefit Bridge 
and Tea to be given early in March.
The Committee in charge are plan
ning to use the proceeds of this Bene
fit in conjunction with a previously 
j established Scholarship Fund to a' ward an Annual Scholarship to a Car-1 
negie girl who has graduated from a 
Cleveland high school.
With this end in view, the Clr.n is 
stirring up much enthusiasm and 
hope to keep the present Activities 
going during the winter.
The December Meeting was a de
lightful affair in the form of a Lunch
eon and Bridge. It was held at the 
Bolton Square Hotel with Miss Geor
gia Clark as hostess.
Buddy in making his remarks did 
not pass up the opportunity of thank
ing the newspaper men, some of 
which were present, for their sup 
port in publicity.
Captain Obie Newman was highly 
praised for his splendid leadeiship 
shown during the past season. Chet 
Hable had quite a time convincing 
the Judge that it has been only five 
years since he came to Carnegie.
ARTHUR LUBIN WINS 
SUCCESS IN DRAMA
Carnegie Graduate Successful 
In Motion Pictures on the 
Pacific Coast
DRAMA GRADUATE WINS 
SUCCESS IN NEW YORK
M. M. College Offers 
Two Special Courses
Marketing, Weaving Courses 
Will be Offered Soon
HINES BROS. ORCHESTRA TO 
SYNCOPATE AT W. J. P.
(Continued From Page One.)
mittee this year, who are very sec
retive about the size, shape, and color, 
and in fact about any details what
soever.
It will not be long now until the 
collegiate boys will be dusting off 
their shawl collared tuxedos and the 
girls will be writing home for a new 
dress, for it is Prom season, and the 
hustle and the bustle denotes a big 
year for the Juniors.
MUSIC STUDENTS WILL 
GIVE RECITAL SUNDAY
Two special courses in home econ
omics, for housewives, brides-to-be, 
and others interested in home prob
lems are announced for the late win
ter and early spring months at the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 
of Carnegie Tech. The classes are 
intended for women who have suffic
ient leisure, and are interested in in
telligent development of the prob
lems of *he home.
One coarse will be given in "mar
keting and meal serving, the other 
in "weaving. There are no aca
demic requirements for entrance, the 
only restriction being that applicants 
should be IS years of age or older.
Each course will consist of one ex
ercise a week, for a period of from 
eight to ten weeks, either morning or 
afternon. A feature in their offering 
is that the hours can be regulated to 
suit the members of the class.
The course in "marketing and meal 
serving will consist of problems of 
food production and distribution, dis
cussion of the local market condi
tions, planning, preparing and serv
ing various types of meals with spe
cial reference to tho solection and 
cost of food. Tho courso in "weav
ing is to include instruction in tho 
uso of tho hand loom and tho weav
ing of textilos, dyeing of threads, and 
a study of colors.
Registrations aro announced for 
January 2S and 20, from 10 a. in., to 
1 p. m., with classes to start early 
in February.
Making Cement Waterproof.
To make cement waterproof try 
mixing 10 per cent of heavy oil with 
hf> first rnnt r>e fhp cement plaster.
Another recital is to be given Sun
day, January 25 at 8:30 P. M., by the 
students of the Music Department. A 
varied program has been arranged 
which will bo sure to please those 
who attend.
The talent of the music students 
is well known to Carnegie people and 
a good audience is assured. These 
recitals form a part of the course of 
each music student and at the same 
time offer delightful entertainment 
for many others.
This is the interesting program 
which has been arranged:
PROGRAM
1. Mendelssohn..............
Variations serieuses 
Rosemary I-Ieyl
2. Gluck-Buck................
O Saviour, hear me 
Alberta Irvine 
Violin obligato, Paul Kleyle
Karg-Elert.............Clair de Lune
Bonnet-----Variations de Concert
Alfred H. Johnson 
Massenet. Aria, "Pleurez!
pleurez, mes yeux! (Le Cid) 
Bessie Weirich
Chopin-----Nocturne, Op. 27, No. 2
Bach-----Prelude and Fugue
in C sharp 
Katherine Hessler 
Mozart. .Piano Quartet in G minor 
Allegro 
Nancy Fast, Marie Kleyle,
Paul Kleyle, Ella Scanlon 
Accompanist, Alice Nelson.
3.
5.
G.
Herbert Claris a Pittsburgh boy 
who was at one time a Drama stu
dent at Carnegie, is making good on 
the stage in New York.
After leaving Carnegie, Mr. Clark 
secured an engagement with the 
Brockton Stock Company in Massa
chusetts, and later played with a 
stock company in Toronto. He then 
went to the Theatre Guild and played 
bits in "From Morn to Midnight, 
Back to Methuselah, and He Who 
Gets Slapped. Through the sudden 
illness of one of the leading players 
Back to Methuselah, Mr. Clark 
was given the opportunity to play a 
principal role, and made good in it.
At present Mr. Clark is playing the 
title part in My Son" at the Bayes 
Theatre in New York. Since open
ing with My Son Mr. Clark has 
been engaged for the lead in two 
pictures.
Arthur Lubin, who studied drama 
at Carnegie in 1020, 21, and 22, has 
been exceptionally fortunate in hisdramatic work on the Pacific Coast. 
In his recent letter to friends at Car
negie, Lubin expresses a most opti
mistic outlook, and it seems assured 
that he will some day be a major 
luminary in the dramatic w'orld.
Lubin has been playing the leadsat the Pasadena Community Play
house for more than a'year. Two of 
his greatest successes were in "Liliom, in which several western crit
ics feel that Lubin was more master* 
feel that Joseph Scliildtkraut, who 
played the part at New York, and as 
He, in "He Who Gets Slapped, the 
powerful tragedy of Leonid Andreyeu.
He has also taken minor roles in. 
several motion pictures, including, 
The Woman on the Jury, which 
showed in Pittsburgh recently. He isnow starting' work on two pictures. 
Being a close personal friend of the 
William De'Mille family, Lubin wTill 
no doubt get ample opportunity to 
rise to the heights in this work. In 
addition to his professional work, 
Lubin is conducting plays at one of 
the coast colleges.
Mary Skurkay, a graduate of the 
Dramatics School, was recently enter
tained by Lubin. Miss Skurkey was 
highly enthusedwith life on the 
coast. She and her father havebought property in California, and 
will no doubt make this their perma
nent home.
It is certain that if the artists leav
ing Carnegie continue to meet with 
the success in life that they have met 
with in the past, the world at large 
will soon learn that Carnegie Institue of Technology is much more than 
a technical school.
FRIENDSHIP DRIVE
CLOSES SUCCESSFULLY
The Student Friendship Drive which 
was carried on last week has been 
brought to a successful close, through 
the tireless efforts of the general com
mittee, and other members of Technon Club who acted as salesmen. Up 
to the time of the writing of this ar
ticle, the amount of money taken in 
had not been ascertained, but it is 
hoped and believed that the drive has 
been a financial success.
The Friendship Drive this year was 
given a greater impetus by the pres
ence of Mr. Roy. II. Legate, executive 
secretary of tho Student Friendship 
Fund. Mr. Legate gave a very inspir 
ing talk at the General Assembly last 
Tuesday, and later in the week gave 
a less formal, though none the less 
inspiring talk to the members of Technon Club at their weekly meeting.
Mr. Legate told of some of the ac
tual needs of European students, and 
also explained how these needs are 
being relieved by the Student Friend
ship Fund. But the thing which Mr. 
Legate emphasizes most was not so 
much the actual money which is con
tributed, but the good will which it 
represents, and being built up between 
the college students of American and 
European Universities.
We were told by Mr. Legate that be
tween six and seven hundred Ameri
can colleges contribute to the Student 
Friendship Fund, as well as numerous 
colleges in other, countries. Surely 
Carnegie should be proud to be num
bered among these.
Rotarians Will Entertain 
Students of Local Colleges
 A dinner and reception in honor of 
all sons and daughters of Rotarians 
attending the local colleges and uni
versities will be given on Friday 
night, February 20, at Carnegie In
stitute of Technology by the Pitts
burgh Rotary Club. The invitationr 
it is announced, is extended to all 
Rotarians sons and daughters en
rolled at Pitt, Carnegie Tech, Penn
sylvania College for Women, Duquesne University and other institu
tions of similar rank in this city.
A special program is being arrang
ed by a committee of Pittsburgh Ro
tarians. Dancing will be one of the 
features.
MANY STATES, NINE COUNTRIES 
REPRESENTED IN STUDENT 
BODY
(Continued From Page One.) 
from 33 different states. The Collegeof Enginering, upper class students, 
however, lead in the world-wide dis
tribution with representatives from 
20 states and seven foreign countries. 
The 306 upper class students in the 
College of Industries represent 27 
states and three foreign countries, 16 
states have their daughters regis
tered among the 405 students at the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, 
while the 354 students in the combin
ed freshman class of the College of 
Engineering and the College of Indus
tries come from 23 states and two for
eign countries.
Sherwood Anderson Will 
Speak Wednesday Evening
5, Haton 5, Thomas, Carlin 2. Lyle 
2, Jones 3, Matter 2, Linch 3, Glanz. 
Deede. Foul goalsW. & J., 3 out 
if S; Carnegie Tech, 7 out of 11. 
RefereeBaird, Penn State.
Sherwood Anderson, well-known as 
a novelist and writer of short stories, 
will appear at the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall Wednesday night, January 21, at 
8:15. The lecture is given under the 
auspices of the Quill Club of the 
University of Pittsburgh, national lit 
erary honorary society, and tickets 
may be obtained at B. K. Elliot Co. in 
the Schenley apartments.
Sherwood Anderson is a writer of 
the new school, his best works hav
ing appeared comparatively recently. 
His latest work was, A Story Tell
ers Story, and was first published 
in a Pittsburgh magazine, Phantasmus. Among his best are "Winesburg Ohio, and "Im Fool.
Mr. Andersons talk will be of great 
interest to everyone who is interest
ed in modern literature, and Carnegie 
students are invited to attend.
A Moles Tunnel
'A mole has often made a passage 
100 feet in length In a 6ingle night 
when the ground has been softened 
from rain. Often a mole house un 
derground Is complete hi every den* 
with big rooms and convenient ui 
lets.
Might Be Good Idea.
Jud Tunkins says there would nev
er be any coal shortage if all the peo
ple who used to sing Down in a Coal 
Mine would get picks an shovels an 
be as good as their word.
Why Jack Should Be Gay.
The way things are looking there 
Is no excuse for Jack being a dull boy, 
as long as no work and all pay are 
conducive to gayety.New Orleans 
Times-Picayune.
Education Worth the Cost
A cultured man is better satisfied 
with his culture than without it. Col
lege educations are worth the cost.
Ocean Floor Comparatively Flat.
Nowhere on dry land are there such 
vast flat plains as occur at the bot
tom of the oceans. The success of 
the submarine telegraphic cables is 
due in part to the  flatness of the 
ocean bottom. Steep slopes are rare, 
and it is in such places that breaks 
In the eahle' usually oceur.
Students desiring to do even
ing shopping for gifts and greeting cards, can get into the Sing
er Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins 
Arcade, until 9:30 p. m.
When You Face the 
Business World
When your school life is over and 
you face the business world, you 
will appreciate the. bank connec
tions that you form today. The ex
perience in financial matters which 
a bank account affords, will 
strengthen your confidence and 
make more likely your chances of 
success.
We invite your consideration of the 
Mellon National Bank. Regardless 
of the size of your account you will 
find hero a genuine spirit of serv
ice in the conduct of your financial 
affairs.
Capital and Surplus $13,500,000.00
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbufe-dh, Pa.
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
