The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 2 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945STUDENT COUNCIL PLATFORMS
Candidates For Student Council Announce 
Their Plans For a Peacetime Carnegie
The following platforms have been submitted to the Tartan by students 
running for the position of representative on Student Council.
Annual United War 
Fund Campaign Opens 
Techites Askedl to Help
The Allegheny County Red Feath
erUnited War Fund Drive is com
mencing its task of raising over five 
million dollars to aid in building a 
better community, nation, and 
world. Eighty-eight local welfare 
agencies have combined with nine
teen war-relief and war-service 
groups of the National War Fund in 
this last big war-created campaign. 
The main appeal of Drive is in its 
slogan, Be grateful  be gener
ous.
Though the victory is here the 
task of these organizations is far 
from complete. To the millions of 
men still overseas this money will 
bring comfort and pleasure. To the 
stricken countries of Europe, to our 
war-torn allies, to the islands of the 
Pacific, this fund spells future hope.
That, however, is but a part of the 
goal. Nearly four million dollars of 
the total $5,415,122 will work for 
good right here in Allegheny Coun
ty. The sick, the homeless, the local 
families in distress, and the district 
in general receive the major bene
fits of the drive.
Techs share of this amounts to 
$6,050. The faculty, administration, 
and staff will join the students to 
put the drive over the top. During 
this month ten minutes off schedul
ed class periods will be devoted to 
solicitation. Those who are not con
tacted are asked to make their 
pledges at the Office of the Cashier.
Remember, Be gratefulbe gen
erous.
Instrument Engineers 
Convene at Carnegie
The Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology and the Instrument Society 
of America will jointly sponsor a 
conference on Tuesday, Wednesday, 
and Thursday, October 16, 17, and 
18 in Room 104, Industries Hall, Car
negie Tech. The probable post-war 
alterations in technical education 
that will be needed to meet the tech
nological changes and developments 
brought about by the expansion in 
industry during the war will be dis
cussed. Considered particularly will 
be the problem of providing the 
skilled manpower capable of build
ing and applying the necessary in
struments for measurements, in
continued on page 8
Notice
There will be a meeting of the 
Thistle Business staff 5:00 Friday 
in the Carnegie Union for all those 
interested in advertising sales and 
circulation.
The posts of Assistant Business 
Manager, Advertising and Circula
tion Manager are still unassigned 
and will be chosen from those who 
prove most active in their staff 
work.
Lois Brunn
As non-v o t i n g 
member of Student 
Council, I shall 
strive to promote 
the rapid reconver
sion of the Tech 
campus back to its 
p r e-w a r state of 
pleasant confusion.
I shall always keep 
the wants and wish
es of the rest of the students in 
mind and try to answer with direct 
action the question: Why doesnt 
Student Council do THIS.
Millicent Hay
I, Millicent Hay, 
if elected for Senior 
Representative from 
Fine Arts to Stu
dent Council, prom
ise to vote for all 
matters which are 
in the interest of 
Fine Arts, in partic
ular, and Carnegie 
Tech as a whole.
I will try to make possible more so
cial functions between the various 
departments so as to better acquaint 
the students. If elected, I promise to 
try to arrange more activities and 
functions between the three schools 
on campus.
Mary Jane Horridge
If I am elected to 
Student Council as 
a non-voting assist
ant secretary, I 
shall endeavor to 
keep all records as 
complete and hon
est as is possible. I 
shall try to keep 
these records in a 
manner representa
tive of the good work which Student 
Council has been doing. I shall try 
to do my part to help Council get 
Tech back on the pre-war basis.
Iris Kwall
As a petitioner 
for senior MM rep
resentative to Stu
dent Council, I put 
before you my rea
sons for desiring 
election.
The Student 
Council has a big 
job on its hands in 
the reconversion to 
a peace time campus. There is still 
much to be done.
I know the school and Ive seen 
its possibilities. If Im elected Ill try 
my utmost to help bring back 
Techs good ole days,
Mary Lou Lerch
As Senior Repre
sentative, I pledge 
my sincerest efforts 
in support of a dem
ocratic school gov
ernment which will 
voice the opinions 
of the majority.
With the passing of 
war-time restric
tions, I am in favor 
of campus activities that more close
ly resemble pre-war college life. I 
will give time and energy to forecast 
our hopes for the future by accom
plishing the best possible in the 
present.
Jean Price
I, Jean M. Price, 
believe that an or
ganization such as 
our Student Coun
cil should have ac
curate records. If 
elected for the posi
tion of assistant sec
retary, I shall do 
my best to help 
keep the records of 
Student Council. Although this posi
tion holds no voting power, I shall, 
if elected, try to see that fairness 
and justice are dealt out by the 
voting members.
Ben Schwartz
If elected to Stu
dent Council, I will 
do my best to stim
ulate social activity 
on campus. I will 
seek to help bridge 
the gap between the 
three schools by 
promoting activities 
of common interest 
to all of them. I 
will endeavor to eliminate dis
crimination against any student or 
group of students for any cause 
whatsoever, in short, democratize 
Carnegie Tech. I will ever strive to 
promote the interests of the student 
body of the school by whatever 
means I may have at my disposal.
Merle Wolff
I entered Tech in 
1942 in normal 
times, and my plat
form is to do my 
utmost to restorestudent activities to 
their previous level.
The one event 
which will do most 
toward achieving 
this goal is an old 
time Spring Carnival with top name 
bands, Mardi Gras, pushmobile 
races, and all the rest. But student 
council should not stop there. It 
should encourage and back bigger 
and better dances throughout the 
year with name bands when possiContinued on page 6
Carnegie Alumni 
Plan Homecoming
The Carnegie Alumni will hold 
their annual homecoming on Friday 
and Saturday, October 19 and 20. 
The first affair will be held in the 
Imperial Room of Webster Hall Ho
tel on Friday evening at 6:00 p. m. 
and will be a buffet supper. There 
is no particular program planned 
for this first affair, but it is hoped 
that this supper will sponsor good 
fellowship, good food, refreshments, 
and entertainment. Reservations 
must be made at the Alumni Office, 
246-A, Industries Hall, on or before 
October 18.
Saturday from nine oclock in the 
morning until noon all departments 
and offices at Carnegie will be open 
for inspection by the alumni. This 
particular day has been built around 
the idea of bringing the alumni to 
the campus. Luncheon will be serv
ed at noon on the campus in the 
newly remodeled dining room with 
alumni, faculty, administration, and 
seniors in attendance. The annual 
meeting of the Alumni Federation 
will also occur and there will be an 
election of officers.
The remainder of the day will be 
open for visiting and parties. Re
union classes for this year will be 
1910, 1915, 1920, 1925, 1930, 1935, and 
1940. Although this meeting prob
ably will still not be up to peacetime 
standards, still it is hoped that 
everything possible will be done to 
make the Alumni Homecoming as 
successful as is possible. The suc
cess of this affair depends upon 
everyone helping the Alumni see 
Carnegie and all its new repairs.
Margaret Morrison 
Frosh Plan Elections
Election of officers for the Fresh
man Class of Margaret Morrison 
will be held Tuesday, October 23, 
from 12:00 until 2:00. Nominations 
are now being accepted by Miss Orr 
in the Deans Office for the offices of 
President, Secretary, Treasurer, and 
Senate Representative, and will be 
accepted until Friday, October 19 
at 5:00.
As in previous elections, nomina
tions will be made by petition. Each 
Freshman who desires to run for 
one of these positions must have her 
petition signed by 10 of her class
mates. Margaret Morrison Senate 
cautions the Freshmen, however, to 
sign only one petition for each office. 
Duplicate names will be eliminated 
from both petitions and may result 
in the nominees having insufficient 
number of signatures.
The voting booths will be opened 
during the usual lunch hours, and 
it is hoped that all Freshmen will 
have sufficient interest in the or
ganization of their class to vote for 
its officers.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945
dU&i'. AntncUcUn.End Man on the Senior Fence
Too Little
Last Spring when the Administration decreed the destruction of the 
Canteen and the old Skibo, there was great sadness felt by all of Carnegies 
students who had found so much pleasure within the walls of these old 
campus institutions. Many of the students then voiced the opinion that the 
Canteen ought never to be destroyed because it was one of the few shreds 
of real campus tradition left us by the war; there were others who thought 
that the razing of the canteen was at least a bit premature; but the majority 
opinion was that the Administrations plans for the new Skibo looked ex
tremely promising. It was decided therefore that this column would not 
voice what was then a minority objection to the change. This fall, however, 
we find that the facilities provided in the new structure are generally deem
ed inadequate. At present the luncheon service in the Coffee Shop and Bean
ery combined is not rapid enough to serve all the students in the rush hours 
in time for them to get back to their afternoon classes; the Coffee Shop 
which is the only service provided on Saturdays is of insufficient size to 
accommodate the luncheon trade on that day; and above all, there has 
been no provision made in the new Skibo for a student recreation center to 
take the place of the Canteen.
The administration is undoubtedly to be commended for the excellent 
job of construction which they accomplished during the summer in spite 
of the shortage of both labor and materials. Both Skibo in general and the 
Coffee Shop in particular are very attractive. Since individual members 
of the administration have spent so much time and energy in trying to 
create an adequate and satisfactory eating place for the students, their 
views should, in all fairness, be discussed here. They have provided in 
the new Skibo, a seating capacity which is greater than that of the Grill 
and the old Beanery combined; it has been diffcult for them to hire suffi
cient help to maintain speedy lunch-line service; they expect that, as in 
past years, the number of students eating lunch on campus will decrease 
after the first few weeks; and lastly they feel that the blame for the CoffeeShop Crush lies with the students because when both are open more people 
eat in the coffee shop than in the dining room although the larger room 
contains 315 more seats. Members of the administration are somewhat dis
gusted because the lunch service in the Coffee Shop which the students 
now object to was provided because the students last year asked that food 
be served in the old Canteen. In analyzing their stand, we find in short 
that the administration feels that the employment of more workers when 
 ; available, the customary reduction in the number of students
mpus, and a more balanced division of lunchers between the 
larger cafeterias will solve the service problem and will leave 
__ iuuiix xor recreation in the Coffee Shop.
We are willing to wait for the worst of the crowd to abate, and we wish 
to suggest that students interested only in eating and not in recreatioon go 
to the dining room instead of the grill, but we feel that this will offer a 
solution which is not even temporarily adequate. Even at present all three 
counters are inadequate in their service of the lunch time crowds, and as 
enrollment increases it will be absolutely necessary, even when more em
ployees are hired, to use the Coffee Shop entirely as a restaurant during 
the noon hours. Some other recreation center obviously must be provided 
for in the future, but it is definitely needed now. There is no place to dance 
in the new Skibo. It may be stated that not many people danced in the 
Canteen, but there were actually quite a few who did, and the number was 
increasing as the students became accustomed to the place. There is a 
definite need for a little space in which to jitter somewhere on campus. It 
is true that it would be nice to play bridge on the square tables in the Coffee 
Shop, but there are always people eating all over them at noon, and later 
they are wet and sticky with food The students need a place where they 
can sit together and talk, they need a place where thy can kibitz around 
the bridge tables and get acquainted with each other, they need a place with 
room enough to dance. They need that place during their lunch hours 
when the Coffee Shop and the Beanery are jammed with lunchers, and 
they need it now. The new Skibo may provide a greater setting capacity 
than did the old Grill and Beanery, but it will never be able to provide 
the facilities or the spirit that was found in the old Skibo and the Canteen.
We shall try to see that the students temporarily use the facilities pro
vided in the new Skibo wisely, but we suggest that the administration 
provide a campus gathering place where Techites can dance, get a coke 
or a sandwich, play bridge and have fun without having seatless and indig
nant lunchers spilling soup down their necks and glowering behind their 
backs.__________________________________________________________________
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MPNE8ENTCD FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc. After Office Hours Call
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief ..........................................SC. 6519
420 Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager................................EM. 9424
EndMaot * Bostor  Los heoSiSr  Sar Francisco
Entered as seeond-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor ........................................................................-............................ Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor .....................................................................................................Augie Binder
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. B Girts
Reporters: Jeanne Boltey, Lucille Emmel, Cammille McCullough, Don Clendenen, 
Joe Stein, Imogene Grove, Audrey Wilkens, Rosemary Lang, Georgette Paljug, 
B. J. Kreimer, Bob Teasdale, Jane Hussey.
(In which, the End Man explains 
the why and wherefore of it all and 
gives a few pertinent remarks on 
the care of infants, the ratio of in
sanity per square mile, semi-colons 
and the voice of the turtle.)
Overlooking several gossip col
umns in last years TARTAN, this is 
our first attempt at columnizing the 
incoherent mundane mummery 
that comes our way every night 
about this time. So armed with cop
ies of Funk and Wagnalls College 
Standard Dictionary, Whos Who at 
the Zooour C book, and a copy 
of the Beveridge Plan, this writer 
makes an attempt to begin what 
promises to be a weekly column in 
this honoured newssheet; my Coro
na and Clara Herron willing.
It is our fervent hope that End 
Man on the Senior Fence will bring 
back treasured college memories 
should you happen to locate a copy 
of the TARTAN some fifty years 
hence and-who-are-we-trying-tokid?
There are some things you should 
know about the End Man first. He is 
that way about semi-colons; he 
loves the silly little things and hes 
just telling you so youll understand 
if you come across a paragraph 
sometime with nothing but semi
colons in it. If that should happen, 
youd just naturally know that the 
End Man was in a very romantic 
mood when he wrote that column. 
As he said before, he loves semi
colons. And it isnt platonic. Then, 
too, you should know that Yours 
Truly is the greatest master of the 
split-infinitive this side of Louella 
Parsons. The End Man is also quite 
fond of exclamation marks, dots, 
parentheses, and dashes, and his 
spelling is something to see and then 
die. Which goes to show absolutely 
nothing except perhaps that our 
English Department will never be 
able to read this column and then 
proudly say: Thats OUR Boy! 
What the hell! Hes a sophomore 
now and has left Lytton Strachey 
to rest in excelsis deo and as far as 
the End Mans concerned, Hamlin 
Garland and William Makepeace 
Thackeray can go the way of all 
flesh.
The columns motto (every 
good column has one, you know) 
is a little gem of wisdom from the 
revered pen of Miss Gertrude Stein 
(no relation) who says: When the 
inside has become so solidly inside 
that all the outside could be outside 
and all the inside inside. We dont 
know what shes talking about 
either, but the motto will be easier
By Casey Stine
to live up to that way. See what we 
mean, huh?
In following columns (we were 
going to write either proceeding 
columns or preceeding columns, 
but we didnt know which it was 
and Funk and Wagnalls College 
Standard Dictionary just fell down 
behind the radio) you will find a 
pot-pourri, like vegetable soup a la 
Beanery, of almost everything. 
Since the End Man would rather go 
without sleeping than go without 
gossip, youll find plenty of that 
hereafter. Yours indubitably has a 
passive interest in Greater Pitts
burgh and surrounding communities 
and youll find a whats what, where, 
and why summary of same. Youll 
find reviews of current books and 
get an insight into why your End 
Man got such miserable grades on 
his book reports. The reader (should 
there be any left by now) will read 
about the current offerings at the 
Little Theater, the Playhouse,, Syria 
Mosque, and the Nixon and inter
views of celebrities too, if the End 
Man doesnt have to use an Iron 
Maiden to get them. As for the 
moooom pictures, well leave that 
to Harold Cohenwhich is possibly 
the meanest thing weve ever said. 
Yes, this will be da colyum classy. 
So what have you got to lose: You 
want to be well read; well, read us! 
String along with this poor mans 
Pepys Diary, and we shall see what 
we shall see-and-isnt-that-a-statement? Much less a sentence.
End Man on the Senior Fence 
will have everything. In fact, we 
dont know why the editor doesnt 
let us write the whole confound
ed TARTAN (What-am-I-saying?) On second thought, we do 
know why. Visualize a football 
game as described by the End Man: 
Somebody dressed in a Mainbocher creation with an embroidered 
bathing cap, made a home run and 
threw the golf ball over the tripod. 
Then Whats-His-Name fell flat in 
the mud. He was a bloody sight, I 
can tell you. And so on, but we 
cant think of one good reason why, 
now.
And speaking of falling asleep 
(as we werent) youll have com
pany because right now, Morpheus 
and I are batting it out. Come next 
week, if you havent changed 
schools because of this column or 
after reading it, dived into the near
est man-hole, well-look for us; well 
be looking for you; come in and 
look for(hey! we got that all 
screwed up!) Never mind, Joyce 
Jordan will clean it up in the morn
ing.
Student Council Minutes
Present: Messrs. Straka, Aisenberg,
Binder, Stine; Misses Irwin, Emmel, 
Clark, and Haushalter.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Freshman Regulations:
Freshman Week was discussed and de
tails completed.
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg reported that Brad Hunt 
was not available for November 3, 1945; 
the other three bands were available, 
however, and prices were to be investi
gated. It was moved that Alpha Phi 
Omega be in charge of the Coke Stand at 
the Student Council Dance on November
3, 1945.
Mr. Aisenberg appointed Lucille Em
mel, Pinky Clark, and Augie Binder as 
members of the Social Committee. This 
was moved, seconded, and carried.
Mr. Aisenberg proposed that if the 
Council deemed it necessary, each organ
ization listed below should hold an AllSchool Dance, retaining no profit and suf
fering no loss, but should do it as pay
ment for a place on campus:
Interfraternity Council 
Panhellenic Council 
Interhonorary Council 
TecVets
Mens Dorm Council 
Womens Dorm Council 
Citcom
?Womens Guild 
*Cwens
*Keep profits for Scholarship Fund.
A Committee was appointed to discuss 
and investigate this proposal before the 
next meeting.Continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Reporter Investigates 
Manpower Situation 
On Carnegie Campus
Gather round me everybody for 
I have some sad, yes, and some glad 
statistics for you! All this week Ive 
been counting noses  oh nobody 
noses what work it was!
For there are girls and Engineers 
and females and Fine Art students 
and women and Maggie Murphs. 
You catch on quickly. There are ex
actly 662 women to 800 men on cam
pus.
Of the total 1462 individuals on 
campus, 610 are freshmen. (Where 
are those dinks?) Engineering school 
has enrolled 302 frosh, its first 
normal freshman class since the war 
began. Fine Arts and Maggie Murph 
are competing with 171 and 137 stu
dents respectively.
Engineering college is also in the 
lime-light with the largest enroll
ment of the three schools:561 stu
dents versus 454 in Fine Arts and 
425 Maggie Murphs.
It is estimated that there are 
about 250 vets on campus doing col
lege and graduate work. An exact 
record of the birdie bearers is not 
available. (It probably was lost 
along with the list of married men 
on campus.)
46 Thistle Pictures 
Scheduled Oct. 20-21
The Nineteen Forty-six Thistle has 
announced the following schedule 
for group pictures to be taken at the
Tartan Supports OSchnook !;i,cITv (uil,I Sele; lsI I ^ Book by Miss Schmitt,In Student Council Election Carnegie Professor
Union:
Saturday, October 20
12:00Interhonorary Council
12:10Alpha Phi Omega
12:20Cwens
12:30Eta Kappa Nu
12:40Mortar Board
12:50Phi Kappa Phi
1:00Pi Tau Sigma
1:10Sigma Alpha Iota
1:20Tau Beta Pi
1:30Theta Tau
1:40C.W.C.A.
1:50Chapel Choir
2:00Citcom
2:10Home Ec. Club
2:20I.R.C.
2:30Modern Dance Club
2:40Radio Club
2:50Science Club
3:00Tecvets
3:10W.A.A.
3:20Womens Glee Club
3:30Mens Glee Club
3:40Womens Guild
3:50Y.M.C.A.
4:00Thistle
4:10Tartan
4:20Scottie
4:30Technical
Sunday,October 21
1:30Student Council
1:40Margaret Morrison Senate
1:50Dorm Council
2:00Interfraternity Council
2:10Panhellenic
2:20Beta Sigma Rho (officers)
2:25Beta Sigma Rho (actives)
2:35Beta Sigma Rho (pledges)
2:40Beta Theta Pi (officers)
2:45Beta Theta Pi (actives)
2:55Beta Theta Pi (pledges)
3:00Delta Tau Delta (officers)
3:05Delta Tau Delta (actives)
3:15Delta Tau Delta (pledges)
3:20Delta Upsilon (officers)
 3:25Delta Upsilon (actives)
3:35Delta Upsilon (pledges)
3:40Phi Kappa (officers)
3:45Phi Kappa (actives)
3:55Phi Kappa (pledges)
4:00Pi Kappa Alpha (officers)
4:05Pi Kappa Alpha (actives)
4:15Pi Kappa Alpha (pledges)
4:20Kappa Sigma
Mr. Dimpledneez OSchnook is the 
only man for the job of representa
tive from the library school to the 
Student Council. Mr. Dimpledneez 
OSchnook is both a gentleman and 
a scholar! M r. Dimpledneez 
OSchnook is the Peoples Choice! Mr. 
Dimpledneez OSchnook is the pride 
of the Fifth Ward! Mr. Dimpledneez 
OSchnook is You Personified! Vote 
for Mr. Dimpledneez OSchnook-and 
rest assured that you have done 
everything possible to make Car
negie Tech a bettermore beyoutifulmore delightfulmore demo
cratic place to go to school. If youre 
disgusted with Techdont transfer 
to Pitt  vote for Dimpledneez 
OSchnook, and therell be some 
changes made. Hurrah for Dimpled
neez OSchnook ! ! ! ! ! Mr. Schnook 
was born in the Black Hole of Cal
cutta which makes him a native of 
Greenland. Sir OSchnook, his fa
ther, was a carpet bagger in the 
War of the Roses while his mother, 
Sylvia OSchnook was a lady-inwaiting to Oscar Wilde. Dimpled
neez went to Vassar, Wellesley and 
Bryn Mawr but couldnt get in be
cause of some silly rule about no 
gentlemen allowed. He then took 
a post-graduate course in kinder
garten and passed his entrance ex
am for Tech. Here he isand here 
he has been since 1918. Hurrah for 
Dimpledneez OSchnook !!!!!! 
The Tartan is proud and happy 
to print below his platform. Says 
Mr. OSchnook: If I am elected to 
the Student Council, I shall do my 
damndest to do my duty to God 
and my country and to obey the 
Scout Law. I shall see that Boots 
does not get divorced and shall see 
that we have a school holiday to 
commemorate the passing away of 
Flat-Top. I shall recommend to 
Mr. Robert Straka, President of the 
Student Council, the following five 
point plan:
1. That Student Council open each 
meeting by the singing of the 
Pitt alma mater.
That penalties be inflicted on any 
of the Council members who 
have not learned, by heart, the 
Congressional Record for the 
past nine years.
3. That keys not only be given to 
members of the Council but 
door-bells, porch lights, umbrella 
stands, and knockers as well.
4. That all Art Students have a full 
knowledge of budgets, deficits 
and fruit cakes.
5. That Mr. Straka have a full 
length portrait of himself made 
which will be hung somewhere 
on Flagstaff Hill as an inspira
tion to future members.
I shall do all in my power to have 
the pronunciations of Fine Arts 
changed to Feen Aats and gymna
sium changed to jimenasium. I shall 
carry a horse-whip to instruct err
ing freshmen in the paths of right
eousness. I shall always vote at my 
countrys call and never think of 
thinking for myself at all. Vote for 
me and expect great things to hap
pen. Reconvert with Dimpledneez 
OSchnook. I thank you. Hurrah 
for Dimpledneez OSchnook ! ! ! ! !
Intramural Touch Football Season Starts 
As Nine Teams Enter Stiff Competition
The intramural touch football 
league at Carnegie Tech was inaug
urated on the cut last night as three 
games went underway. The league 
is comprised of nine teams: Delta 
Upsilon, Delta Tau Delta, Beta 
Theta Pi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Scobell Hall, Independents, Theta Xi, 
Pi Kappa Alpha, and Phi Kappa. 
Each team will play the other once. 
The league will  terminate on the 
first of November and will be fol
lowed by any playoffs which are 
necessary to determine the cham
pionship of the school. Scheduled 
to play this week are: on October 
15, Delta Tau Delta versus Phi Kap
pa on field 1; Beta Theta Pi versus 
Pi Kappa Alpha on field 2; Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon versus Theta Xi on 
field 3; on October 16, Scobell Hall 
versus Independents on field 1; Del
ta Epsilon versus Kappa Alpha on 
eld 2; Delta Tau Delta versus Theta 
Xi on field 3; on October 17, Beta 
Theta Pi versus Independents on 
field 1; Sigma Alpha Epsilon versus 
Scobell on field 2; Phi Kappa versus 
Theta Xi on field 3; on October 18, 
Delta Upsilon versus Independents 
on field 1; Delta Tau Delta versus
Scobell on field 2; Beta Theta Pi 
versus Sigma Alpha Epsilon on field 
3. Field number one is designated as 
the one closest to Fine Arts build
ing; the other two are next to 
Forbes street in order. The next is
sue of the Tartan should carry some 
interesting news on the outcome of 
these games.
Basketball
Fifty potential varsity basketballers reported to Coach Hannum last 
Monday night. It looks like Tech is 
getting back in stride. Lets plan 
right now to back this team one 
hundred percent. It is no fun to play 
your heart out before an empty row 
of bleachers. Coach Hannum feels 
that he has one of the-best squads 
in years. It is up to the rest of us to 
give the team one of the best cheer
ing sections in years; and to give 
them something to go all out for.
Miss Gladys Schmitt, assistant 
professor of English at Carnegie 
Tech, received word the last of Aug
ust that the Literary Guild wanted 
her novel, David, The King, to 
be its selection for February, 1946. 
This psychological novel based on 
the life of David, besides being of
fered through the Literary Guild, 
will be published January 21 by 
Dial Press, in a first edition of 
twenty thousand copies. To write 
a book striving only for literary 
merit and to have for it not a few 
scattered readers but an unlimited 
audience seems to Miss Schmitt All 
this, and heaven too!
When her publishers asked her al
most five years ago what her next 
novel would be, her response, A 
book about David, was practically 
involuntary. The stories about Da
vid, the forgiven sinner, had been 
in her mind since those Sunday 
School days when they first en
thralled her. Almost subconsciously 
she realized she someday would 
have to write this story of a mans 
growth from complete egoism, 
through experience, into complete 
selflessness. Now after her years 
of research, thought, and writing, 
we will be able to read David The 
King.
Miss Schmitt, born in Pittsburgh, 
received her first recognition from 
the literary world when she won 
third prize in a poetry contest 
sponsored by Scholastic. While 
studying creative writing at the 
University of Pittsburgh, she was 
awarded first prize in the WitterByunt National College Poetry Con
test. She worked as an editor of 
Scholastic in New York where 
she finished her first novel, The 
Gates of Aulis, which received 
the Dial Press Award for the best 
novel by a young writer concerning 
problems which confront youth to
day. This was in the spring of 1941.
The fall of 1941 Miss Schmitt, now 
Mrs. Simon Goldfield, came to Tech 
to aid in planning and teaching 
Thought and Expression, a compre
hensive English course especially 
for freshmen in the drama, music, 
and painting and design and archi
tecture departments. Since then, 
while she has been teaching gram
mar and love of literature, balanced 
sentences and tolerance, straight 
thinking afid social consciousness, 
she has also been writing the David 
novel and short stories. Her stories 
have appeared in the Atlantic 
Monthly, Story, Harpers Bazaar, 
Mademoiselle, and Colliers. One 
will be published in Good House
keeping . soon. Last year one short 
story by Miss Schmitt was included 
both in the volume, O. Henry Me
morial Award Prize Stories of 1944 
continued on page 8
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
WHATS A PICTURE 
WITHOUT A ROOM?
We reverse the procedure to suggest that 
we have a large collection of color repro* 
auctions of OLD MASTERS, MODERNS 
and CONTEMPORARIES, also MARINES 
and SPORTING PRINTS that will just 
dress up the room. Reasonable.
Oestreichers
1208 6th Ave. (Dept. 15) New York 1, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945
DRUCPRODUCTS
SUN
DRUG STORES
Reliable Prescription Service
Robert Noyes Elected Editor-in-Chief 
As 1945-46 Staff is Chosen for Scottie
Since the trial issue of the Scottie Womens Editor.......Ann Sweeney
that was sold on registration day, These four in turn chose the rest 
every student has been wondering of the staff members:
if the Tech humour magazine will Associate Editor.......Evelyn Kane
continue publication. Because of Feature Editor .... Jack Sherwood 
student enthusiasm for the magaCirculation Manager ... Burt Quint 
zine, the faculty gave their consent Exchange Editor ... Bill Dougherty
to it. They made several suggestions Photographer...............Dan Franks
to the staff in order that this pubLayout Editor  To be appointed
lication may show the originality from Printing Department.
of a true humour magazine. Advertising Editor  Open, pendWith student-faculty approval ing results of work done,
given, an operating staff for the
1945-46 issues was chosen by the Kappa Fraternity
Publications Committee and Stu-r, mi . Trdent Council. Since several memReopens Their House
bers of Publications Committee Omitted from last weeks article
were directly concerned in the staff, on fraternities was the fact that 
alternates for each of the four Exthe Phi Kappa House reopened on 
ecutive Board members were preMoorewood Place the beginning of 
sented to Student Council for the this semester. Under the leadership 
final decision. The leading staff of President Andy Pepper the framembers were chosen as follows: ternity has just completed a very
Editor-in-Chief ............. Bob Noyes successful rushing season, and is
Managing Editor .. Adeline Herlick hopefully looking forward to a year 
Business Manager.......Merle Wolff of great activity.
Johnstone Succeeds Keeble 
As Director of Fine Arts
B. Kenneth Johnstone has been 
apointed Director of the College of 
Fine Arts and will assume his duties 
on November 1. He will succeed
Glendenning Keeble, who is on 
leave because of illness.
Professor Johnstone is a native of 
Chicago, Illinois. In 1928 he gradu
ated from the University of Illinois, 
where he was very active in extra
curricular activities, being President 
of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, 
Business Manager of several publi
cations, and an active member of 
many committees. In 1929 he re
ceived a second degree, the B.F.A. 
in Architecture, from Yale Univer
sity. During the next three years 
he traveled in Europe and the Orient 
and attended the American Acad
emy at Rome. In 1933 he returned 
to the United States and became a 
member of the faculty at Penn 
State. In 1936 he was appointed 
Head of the Department of Archi
tecture at that college.
Mr. Johnstone won the Prix de
Home in Architecture in 1929 and 
the Scarab Gold Medal in 1941. He 
is a member of the American Insti
tute of Architects, Society for the 
Promotion of Engineering Educa
tion, Pennsylvania Society of Archi
tects, Association of University Pro
fessors, Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Tau, 
Phi Eta Sigma, Scarab, Gargoyle, 
Alpha Delta Sigma, and Mask and 
Bauble. He is a registered architect 
in Pennsylvania and has engaged in 
private practice. In addition, he has 
written several books and numerous 
magazine ai tides on architecture.
Mr. Johnstone has been in Pitts
burgh the past week getting ac
quainted with his duties at C.I.T. 
but his family has not yet moved 
here from State College. He has not 
been here long enough to make any 
extensive plans for the future
Program Announced 
By Shadyside Forum
The Shadyside Community For
um this year presents eight nation
ally famous speakers in six pro
grams. Forum sessions are on the 
fourth Wednesday of each month 
from October to April. Speakers 
will present outstanding programs 
offered to students at a season price 
of $1.20. This price is made possible 
by the Jefferson Club of the First 
Unitarian Church.
The program for October will be 
a discussion by Rodger N. Baldwin, 
director of the Civil Liberties Union, 
on How Goes The Bill of Rights.
All students are cordially invited 
to participate in the forthcoming 
programs of the Jefferson Club 
which wil-l feature for October The 
Future of Atomic Power by Pro
fessor Demas Barnes of Pitt and Dr. 
L. O. Grondahl, chief of research 
at the Union Switch.
onpa ge8Ctiautd6
stood up throughout the war
PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY TOR THE BELL SYSTEM. 
WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
LIKE the famous old ship, your telephone has come 
J through the war with colors flying.
What other aid to modern living has been so depend
able under all conditions and so free from mechanical 
troubles?
During the war years, when so little new telephone 
apparatus could be made for the home front, even equip
ment made many years ago by Western Electric has 
served you faithfully and has been a national asset in 
time of war. Quality shows best when the going is tough. 
? ? ?
Western Electric, supply unit of the Bell System, is 
now tackling its biggest peacetime job. Furnishing 
materials and equipment to meet the Systems immedi
ate needsthen to carry out the Systems $2,000,000,-
000 post-war construction programpromises record 
peace-time production and a level of employment 
higher than in the years just before the war.
Western Electric

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
New Book Written 
By Dr. Max Schoen
On October 15, a new book by Dr. 
Max Schoen is scheduled to slide off 
the presses of the D. Van Nostrand 
Company. Bearing the title, Human 
Nature in the Making, this volume ^ 
was expressly written for an Art 
School course. Designed for a first 
course in psychology, it has a three
fold purpose: to present the prin
ciples of psychology in a simple, 
readable manner; to show the read
er how psychological principles op
erate, and to illustrate how these 
principles may be used by the read
er for self-improvement. Dr. Schoen, 
himself, said, I have felt all along 
that what the student needs is some
thing he could understand. Psy
chological texts are so loaded up 
with factual material that the pupil 
cannot see the forest for the trees. 
He cannot apply the principles to 
himself because he cannot recognize 
them.
A member of the Carnegie Tech 
faculty since 1921 and present Head 
of the Department of Psychology 
and Education, Dr. Schoen is an astoundingly prolific author. This lat
est work is his ninth book.
The publishers have decided that 
the book is of such a scope and is 
written in such a style that they 
have published a trade edition in 
addition to the regular text copy. 
These will go on sale for the public 
in regular book stores.
In addition to this book mentioned 
here, Dr. Schoen has in the process 
of printing still another work which 
should prove very interesting. Its 
title is Thinking About Religion; its 
publication date is sometime next 
spring.
Red Cross Extends 
Invitation to Lectures
Professional people, including 
teachers, nurses, and social work
ers, have been invited to attend a 
course of lectures on Nutrition of
fered by the Nutrition Department 
of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
American Red Cross. Any others 
who wish to attend are invited to 
do so. Those interested in register
ing may do so by calling GRant 
1680 and asking for the Nutrition 
Department, Extension 115, or by 
writing or stopping at the Pitts
burgh Red Cross Headquarters in 
the Wabash Station.
The first and second of these lec
tures were given by Miss Helen G. 
Everett, Assistant Director, Nutri
tion Service, Eastern Area, Ameri
can National Red Cross, Alexandria, 
Virginia; and Miss Hester Griffin, 
Head of Home Economics Depart
ment, Mount Mercy College, Pitts
burgh, on the subjects Are Ameri
cans Well Fed? and Food for 
Energy.
Lesson plans and dates as outlined 
for the remainder of October are: 
The Body Building Materials, by 
Dr. Richard H. McCoy, assistant re
search professor, Department of 
Chemistry, University of Pitts
burgh, on October 16; The Body 
RegulatorsMinerals, by Paul B. 
Ernst, D. D. S., on October 23; and 
The Body RegulatorsVitamins, 
by Miss Ruth Roth, Nutritionist, De
partment of Health, Pittsburgh, on 
October 30.
Tech has at last found a new sys
tem for organized wolfing. The sys
tem is very simple to operate with 
a T.S. or Freshman Report Card and 
pencil (to make it look more legal) 
and a likely-looking Frosh of the op
posite sex. This is all very legal, for 
being an upperclassman at CIT en
titles one to demand the name (and 
telephone number) of any Freshman 
seen violating Freshman regula
tions. The names are to be turned in 
to the Student Council Court so that 
the Freshman may be justly punish
ed. The upperclassman may use the 
telephone numbers as he sees fit.
Some of the Freshmen, however, 
are rebellious, mutinouseven de
fiant. They have actually been heard 
to say, when an upperclassman 
pleasantly inquired their name for 
reference to the Court, Whats it 
to ya? or the electrovalent equiva
lent thereof. A few have the com
mon politeness to offer excuses as to 
why they are not wearing their 
dinks, excuses such as, I just came 
from Chem lab and it fell into a 
puddle of sulfuric acid. (Here the 
cynical upperclassman would ask 
what the Frosh was sailing in a 
puddle of acid besides his hat.) An
other good excuse which almost al
ways works on the kindly hearts of 
the loving upperclassman is, My 
girl friend sewed a zipper across the 
top of it and is using it for a purse. 
How could any upperclassman turn 
a Frosh in to the Court in the face 
of such heartbreaking pleas?
Some Frosh try another tactic 
besides pleading. Instead of throw
ing him-or-herself on the tender 
mercies of his-or-her superior, he 
belligerently says he didnt see the 
one he was supposed to speak to 
because he was conducting an intel
ligent discussion on Social Relation^ 
with his classmates. He then calls 
a court of his peers (other Frosh) 
complete with judge, jury and wit
nesses to decide whether he is guil
ty. The timid upperclassman, quav
ering in his unrationed shoes, and
overwhelmed by the numbers and 
spiked clubs of the frosh says that 
its perfectly all right since the frosh 
couldnt possibly have seen him. Of 
course, when the numbers and spik
ed clubs are on the side of the up
perclassman . . .
Not all Frosh are problem chil
dren and potential delinquents. We 
have cited only the outstanding and 
horrible examples. The greater ma
jority have been dutifully wearing 
their dinks and ties like the fine 
upstanding citizens of CIT that they 
hope to be. May they not have to 
lead an audience of jeering millions 
on Fun Night! ! !
Shula-SkeeboDrive Initiated For 
New Pronounciation
At long last comes the announce
ment of a change overshadowing all 
other campus alterations. The li
brary may have bfeen moved to In
dustries; the Hut may have become 
the Canteen and then have vanished 
completely; lights may have reap
peared in long-darkened fraternity 
houses; the male enrollment may 
have increased from something re
sembling a second order infinitesmal. These changes, however, all 
fade into insignificance.
For now it seems that with the 
tearing down the old Skibo and 
the establishment of the new comes 
an announcement that the former 
pronunciation of the name should 
be changed. Thus, the old Skibo 
(Skybo) becomes the new Skibo 
(Skeebo). It seems that the name 
taken from Andrew Carnegies cas
tle in Sutherlandshire, Scotland, 
was originally Skeebo. Probably be
cause of phonetic laziness the name 
gradually became Skibo as far as 
C. I. T. students were concerned. In 
accordance with the cultural lag 
mentioned in all eminent Freshman 
Social Relations courses the Admin
istration is just becoming fully 
aware of the practice. Therefore, as 
a major postwar project looms the 
changing of the old pronunciation 
to go with the new eating place. 
Regardless of the importance of the 
variation however, we shall all 
probably continue to patronize the 
place, mutato nomine.
Notice
All persons who are interested in 
writing or working for the Tartan 
are requested to attend a very im
portant Tartan meeting at the 
Union on Friday, October 19, at 7:30 
P. M.
ALBERT L. 
BRAHM CO.
Meats
Wholesale and Retail
404 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa,

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945
Student Platforms
Continued from page 1 
ble through larger student attend
ance.
Emphasis should be placed on all 
student activities, and intramural 
sports should reach more students. 
As a method of creating additional 
interest in activities and a means of 
reward for those who do good work, 
I propose the reinstating of class 
honoraries.
I have had experience on A. C. A. 
C., the war-time student council, 
and I feel that I am well enough ac
quainted with its functions to fully 
represent the Engineers interest on 
Council.
George Scottie Yurchison
1. Promotion of stu
dents, scholastic
ally and morally.
2. Expansion of so
cial and athletic 
activities so as to 
affect the stu
dents directly.
3. Abolition of po
litical blocs which 
represent groups 
of students instead of all the stu
dents.
Thomas Ladowski
My only intentions are to serve 
the student body of 'Carnegie Tech 
as directly as possible. Many of us 
have ideas about what is necessary 
in campus activities, but so few are 
actually brought to the attention of 
the Student Council. A representa
tives duties are: to hear all sug
gestions and act upon them; inform 
his fellow students of any activities 
planned or discussed on the campus; 
and finally to present his ideas to ac
tion. My wish is to fulfill these du
ties to the best of my ability.
Dell Miller
I, Dell Miller, if elected to the of
fice of Junior non-voting member 
of Student Council from Fine Arts 
will try my best to see that Student 
Council has more important duties 
than merely arranging a social cal
endar and will also try to see that 
the students of Fine Arts take a 
more active part in campus activi
ties.
Paris Hat Designer 
Addresses Students
Madame Suzy, Paris Hat Design
er, will speak to all students inter
ested today, October 16, 1945,
in Recreation Hall, Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College, at nine-thirty 
oclock In the morning. No registra
tion is necessary, and the speech is 
open to everyone interested.
Interfraternity Council 
Elects New Officers
At its first meeting of the new 
semester, Interfraternity Council 
elected new officers to lead it 
through what may well be the most 
important period of its existence as 
the school begins to return to its 
normal schedule. The men who will 
direct the organization through this 
crucial time are:
Robert Skinkel of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Director.
Louis Umbach of Theta Xi, Secre
tary.
Robert Graham of Pi Kappa Al
pha, Treasurer.
Interfraternity Council is made up 
of one representative from each of 
the social fraternities active on cam
pus, usually the president; it acts 
as a general clearing house for any 
subjects affecting the several mem
ber organizations.
Murray Slone
As non-voting member of student 
council I, Murray Slone, will do all 
I possibly can to see that there is 
resumption of the student activities 
which have been previously discon
tinued, and I will also try to pro
mote an expanded social program. 
Dottie Stewart
Now that campus activities are 
beginning to come back to normal, I 
think the one big problem were all 
facing is that of bringing the three 
collegesFine Arts, Margaret Mor
rison, and Engineering  back to
gether again. Our so called school 
spirit seems to have gone the sad 
way of our football team, but I think 
that some high-powered planning on 
the part of Student Council can 
start the ball rolling again. Id like 
very much to be a part of a Student 
Council that will wade in and really 
lick the probem.
One oi
A bright little smile, a cheery 
hello, and a flow of endless energy; 
youre sure to be looking at Lillian 
Simpsonbetter known to Tech in
mates as Lil. She was born away 
back in Cadiz (pronounced Kadis), 
Ohio, which, she claims, is the 
proudest small town in America 
home of Clark Gable (and of 
course Lil).
At present she is living with her
Dramats Star in 
Summer Productions
Supplimenting last weeks story 
of the summer activities of drama 
department students, the Tartan 
supplies the following more com
plete report of these enterprises.
It is generally believed that Tech 
dramats, after eight strenuous 
months at school, go home and fold 
up. In some cases this may be true, 
but this summer a sizeable number 
of our drama students upheld the 
traditions of the department in a 
summer theater which they organ
ized at the well-known artists col
ony, Woodstock, New York.
The kids did a wonderful job, and 
the drama department is duly proud 
of its students and graduates. Start
ing from scratch, they rented an old 
home and a theater. But a place to 
live and a place to work was only 
the beginning. It was necessary for 
each of them to join Equity. Then 
came the formidable task of fur
nishing sets, cotumes, lighting. They 
braved all the difficulties and pro
duced ten shows, Blithe Spirit, Uncle 
Harry, Goodbye Again, The Man 
Who Came to Dinner, Hotel Uni
verse, Arsenic and Old Lace, Papa 
Is All, Private Lives, Thunderrock, 
and Ladies in Retirement. The place 
was soon flooded with critics and 
talent scouts. B. Iden Payne, the 
noted Shakespearian director, play
ed the lead in The Man Who Came 
to Dinner, and Mary Morris starred 
in Ladies in Retirement. Bob Gill, 
a Tech graduate and former faculty 
member, did two shows, Blithe Spir
it and Uncle Harry. Private Lives 
was played by Gerald Savory, who 
has directed Little Brown Jug, soon 
to be seen on Broadway. He is the 
author of Hand in Glove, the next 
Playhouse show. Steve Elliot, last 
seen in The Tempest, did the lead in 
Thunderrock and played opposite 
Mary Morris in Ladies in Retire
ment. To sum up a successful season, 
I will say that while most summer
the Girls
. . . Lil Simpson
aunt in Wilkinsburg. When shes not 
busy as a secretarial senior in Mar
garet Morrison (teacher-training 
too), her duties as President of Panhellenic and as a member of Delta 
Delta Delta take up the remainder 
of her time.
Her one and only hobby at this 
point is a manSam! She says she 
likes her men short, stumpy, and 
squatty, but wouldnt say whether 
this was his description or not. After 
she finishes schoolin the 30th cen
turyshe intends to marry Sam 
to whom she is now engaged.
Reech Deeches including ice 
cream, cake, and pie seem to be her 
favorite food. Her great loves are 
Dick Tracy, Lil Abner, Dennis 
Morgan and Dick Haymes (claims 
she simply cant swoon over Frank 
Not-so-hotra).
Lil is a regular fireball and can 
really do it when it comes to jitterbugging. Her vivacious personal
ity made her a very hep drum 
majorette in her high school days.
She has only one pet peeve  
people who are not sincere  the 
two-faced. Unfortunately, a very 
important matter interrupted our 
much too short interviewLil had 
to run off to meet her Sam.
Student Council
Continued from page 2 
Publications Committee:
Mr. Binder read the names of the Pub
lications Editors:
Tartan: Editor, Clara Herron; Business 
Manager, Harold Gottesman.
Thistle: Editor, Jean Lisle; Business
Manager, John Seiple.
Technical: Editor, Julia Randal; Busi
ness Manager, Augie Binder.
Mr. Binder moved that the position of 
General Business Manager be abolished 
and the power of the Business Manager 
of each publication be restored to its 
normal duties.
Motion carried.
It was moved that the Council recom
mend to the Executive Committee that 
the Scottie be retained as a Publication 
on Carnegie Tech campus.
Motion carried.
It was moved that the Council recom
mend the Publications Committee to de
termine the Scottie editors and staff. 
Anyone interested in becoming a mem
ber of the staff should sign up on the lists 
posted on the Bulletin Boards.
Motion carried.
Special Committee:
Mr. Stine was appointed to investigate 
the details of the old Scotch and Soda 
Acts held at the various dances during 
peace time.
Points and Keys Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg was appointed as Chair
man of a committee composed of Bob 
Straka, Augie Binder, and Boyd Stine, to 
investigate a new Points System for men.
The meeting was adjourned at 10:15 
p m.
Respectfully submitted.
BARBARA IRWIN,
Secretary.
theaters fold up, Woodstock counted 
$4,000 in its coffers when it closed 
on Labor Day.
The staff of the company included 
Alex Siegel, director, Milton Levine, 
business manager, and Ruth Sabotka, scene designer. Glo Goldsmith, 
Lyn Bloom, Pat Walker, Rita Sheinman, Elise Cox, Lois Nosich, Cecele 
Strober, Ruth Storm, George Stupakis, Jack Hochauser, Frank Stev
ens, and three men not of Tech com
prised the rest of the company.
Congratulations, kids! It is pluck 
and spirit such as yours that the 
American theater needs and is look
ing for today.
THE Q UAH TER 
HITS THE LINE-1903
In that year, for the first time in college annals, 
the quarter could run with the ball snapped 
direct from center. Brains and speed succeeded 
crude mass play, and the modern game began. 
It was a popular innovation. Like Railway Ex
press round-trip service for college laundry and 
baggage, the new method once tried out became 
nation-wide standard practice. Make a standard 
practice, too, of packing and wrapping securely, 
addressing clearly and starting early whatever 
you have to express. It will help all concerned.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Veterans Interviewed 
By Roving Reporters
Your roving reporters finally re
moved their feet from the table tops 
at Skibo, spurred on by last weeks 
Tartan reports of thirty surplus men 
on campus and have decided to find 
out just what these men, mostly 
vets, think of our grand old institu
tion. We finally managed to button
hole three, between bridge games,
Our first victim was Sam Moses, 
a freshman studying chemical engi
neering. Sam was in the army and 
seems to like his new environment 
well enough to want to stay four 
years. He chose Tech because it of
fered a better course in the field of 
his interest than other schools he 
investigated. Sam finds the atmos
phere here is friendly and says 
there are a lot of opportunities for 
social activities on campus. Sam al
so likes the casual treatment he re
ceives as a vet. He says you can 
hardly tell him from any other lousy 
freshman.
That being all we could wrangle 
from Mr. Moses, we passed on to a 
dramat-crowded table. We selected 
Jack Otterson, an Army refugee, 
who is also a frosh. Jack shares Mr. 
Moses enthusiasm for Tech and 
Tech life. He likes acting and inter
esting people and finds Tech a good 
place to associate with them. Jack 
agrees that Tech needs more inter
collegiate sports and, in best dramat 
style, he threw himself on his knees 
and begged for a place to dance in
formally on campus. Jack feels very 
much at home here.
Feeling slightly nonplussed, we 
moved on to another shining gold 
button in a blue serge suit inhabited 
by Ben Schwartz, electrical senior. 
Mr. Schwartz spent one month here 
in 1943 and when asked for a com
parison between now and then, said, 
At that time, I didnt know what 
was going on. I still dont know, but 
I wont admit it. Ben says the 
school seems very much the same 
as in forty-three, but thinks we could 
use some more equipment in the 
labs. He, too, agrees that we need a 
place on campus to dance informally 
and play bridge without crowding 
out eaters.
Skibo Scraps
Things picked up last week and in 
picking up, we picked up our ears 
and picked up odd bits of gossip, 
news and what have you. We keep 
things like that in a little note book 
and below you will find the things 
written as they were scribbled in 
said note book:
Pat Cautley is engaged . . . 
Clark Sloan and Eph Abrams were 
home . . . Ben Schwartz spent Sun
day afternoon wiping Iris Kwalls 
face with a piece of wet paper . . . 
Nancy Morrison was married to 
George Jackson (Delt) . . . the 
DUs, the Betas and the SAEs going 
out to PCW for a Satiddy night 
dance . . . Ted Hill causing rrrufffs 
from the Rrruff Girls . . . Andy 
Groomes and Don Poskin out at The 
Pines . . . Loo West and Soldjer 
making the rounds . . . Goobee 
proposing to Straka . . . Jack Ot
terson and Pepe Walk, Jack Otter
son and Ellie Hovde, Jack Otterson 
and Mary Laura Wood . . . Doris 
Becker and Tony Arrott at the Tar
tan office . . . Carroll Henson flirt
ing with the Labor Problems teach
er .. . Dotty King telling that Mike 
Riggle will be home soon . . . Ruth 
Pivorotto and Scottie Yurchison at 
the Delt House . . . Mary Liz Kane 
and Johnnie Schmidt at the Beta 
House . . . where is Dick Andres 
DU pin? . . . Artie Shaeffer wear
ing Grant Kavenders DU pin 
and The Lieutenant being home 
. . . Red Baney home too . . . 
Fred Mitchell leaving for the Army 
next week . . . the comment classy 
of the week: Skinkle and woman 
were crossing the cut and it looked 
like it was going, to rain. Said 
Skinkle, looking heaven-ward, If 
you must precipitate, for Gods 
sake, snow!! . . . Lois Slessinger 
and Bob Lambert (Judys brother) 
in Skibo . . . Dunkle has pinned 
Dotty Yost (again) . . . Ralph 
Kindblom had a roaring date with 
Elaine Mayberry . . . Ken King 
rushing the Freshmen Women . . . 
Delt pledge Frank Clark is gazing 
longingly at Mary Jane Horridge 
but shes pinned  tough . . . 
Clara Herron dating Jerry Clack, 
home from Princeton . . . Ernie 
Balfrey, ex B-17 pilot and Delt
pledge with Theta Ginger Hall . . . 
Merle Wolfe has been going to 
bed with his key chain on his pa
jamas . . . Big question about Ed 
Thompson and Murph . . . A1 Murrer is a traitor! Dated Pitt girl, 
Susie Hart . . . Ernie The Dumb 
Swede has been dating a Scandi
navian . . . Ann Stansbury and War
ren Snow at the Pines  big news!
. . . there were three extra girls at 
one of the Betas rushing parties . . . 
Perry, who gave his Beta pin away 
in a moment of madness, found that 
the girl was dating another . . . 
Casey Stine and Lucy Seibert down 
at the Railroad Station the other 
night . . . whats this about McGill 
Hall practically being taken over by 
the SAEs . . . has anyone seen 
Bob Ayres doing the bunny hug?
. . . For the first time in its history 
the SAE House now has a dramat, 
Tom Rumbaugh . . . Patty Jones 
and Howie Griffner seen at the Delt 
House . . . June Shannon dreaming 
of West Point and those dawling 
white uniforms. . . . Sam Marcus 
was in for a Tau Delt get-together.
Nat Williams reported to prefer 
the Navy to Bob Straka . . . Ray 
Lansbery conducted a public survey 
at the Greeks last night it has been 
rumored . . . Fritz Popes date is 
still recovering from eye-strain due 
to the blinding effect of his now 
famous (?) sport coat . . . Familiar 
sight at DU House . . . Pap Seerist 
conducting class in marriage rela
tions . . . Steve Gress claims that 
he doesnt get his dates until Fri
day night in order to give returning 
servicemen first crack . . . Burt 
Quint busily engaged with Joan 
Braunstron last Saturday night . . . 
Danny Franks last seen with fourpoint Litt . . . Ben Schwarts efforts 
as a playwringht proved to be utter
ly out-of-this-world . . . Ernie Lowenstein is doing himself up swell as 
Managing Ed of V.P.I. paper. . . .
That does it for this week. Please, 
everybody, if youve got any dirt  
hand it in to the Tartan Office (in 
the Union) on Friday night. You 
get mad when your name isnt men
tioned, but how are we supposed to 
know everything about everybody? 
Give us some help, huh?
Coke 
cornin up
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Mens Fraternities 
List New Pledges 
From Rush Season
The fraternities on the Tech cam
pus have announced that the follow
ing men are pledging the various 
fraternities. Many returned veter
ans are among the pledges.
Phi Kappa
Francis Goldcant 
Joe Harmuth 
Vince Benya 
A1 Macyauskas 
Tom Lakowski 
Tom Popielski 
Pi Kappa Alpha
Bob Alexander 
Preston Bergen 
Ed Clark 
Mike Costa 
Les Engle 
Bob Herbert 
Jack Lee 
Larry Maley 
Don Owens 
Mario Varese 
Dan Weller 
Tau Delta Phi
Martin Chetlin 
Sam Moses 
Delta Tau Delta
Ernest F. Balfrey 
Jay N. Maratta 
Frederick T. E. Frank 
Neil E. Smart 
William T. Fields 
Francis A. Clark 
Raymond H. Stehle 
Edward W. Boland 
^"unk J. Knoble 
nes E. McNutt 
Ge jrge E. Yurchison 
Abram G. Hopper 
Frederick K. Haller 
Robert I). Hutchinson 
James A. Morgan 
Edwin A. Thompson 
Donald J. Stokes
H. Herbert Jackson 
Beta Sigma Rho
Charles Freed 
Bill Benswanger 
Irv Haus 
Si Prussin 
Stan Kohn 
Alex Sherman 
Delta Upsilon
Anthony Arrott 
Richard Kennedy 
William Hagmeyer 
James Schuetz 
James De Rolf 
George M. Weis 
Donald F. Dunbar 
Steven G. Gress 
Robert Ripple 
Sigrma Alpha Epsilon
Robert C. Ayers 
Calvin E. Benson 
David Berry 
Gerald M. Daurelle 
James McNeal 
John Mosley 
Harry A. Thor 
Joseph Amadee 
Ivor Davis 
Oscar Lofgref 
George Smith 
Beta Theta Pi
Ken Whitmoyer 
Ted Hill 
Norburt Kurty 
Don Hunter 
ernon Neubert 
Warren Dickson
Student Employment
All students who received summer jobs 
through the employment office are re
quested to report to Mrs. Kreigline in 
Room 155-A, Ind. Hall, if they have not 
already done so.
Girls
Several positions open for girls who 
have had some experience in group work 
and teaching crafts.
Girl to do filing on Saturday morning 
from 9 to 12. $10.00 per month.
Girl to tend switchboard and reception 
desk in Y.W.C.A. several evenings a week. 
60c an hour.
Boys
One boy wanted for evening work on 
campus.
Radio service man wanted to work on 
Saturdays.
Holiday work. The Post Office is now 
lining up boys for work during the 
Christmas season. Those interested 
should report to Mrs. Kreigline for further 
information.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1945Carneijie (plaid
Royal York Scene of 
Annual Insignia Banq
The Annual Insignia Banquet was 
held this year at The Royal York 
Wednesday, July 25.
This banquet is an annual affair 
at which time Evening Student 
Council Awards Insignia Pins to 
those students who during the 
school year had participated in ex
tracurricular campus activities.
Excellent food, and an air of 
pleasant informalty topped off by 
some really interesting discourses 
by guest members, Mrs. Yon, Dr. 
Jones, Mr. Daniels, Mr. Stanton, Mr. 
Kent Schaffer, Mr. McKelway, Miss 
Winchester and Mr. John Elliot 
made this banquet highly success
ful.
Z&Uosi'i. NoteA.
The enrollment this year in the 
Evening School has taken quite a 
rise over enrollments of the last few 
years. To the returning students we 
want to say Welcome back, and 
to the new membersWere glad 
to have you here.
There were a few changes made 
on the Camnus during the summer 
[ut, which was built 
;t World War for the 
oldiers and then used 
as a student library, has been raz
ed. The Inn has been closed except 
to residents of the dormitories, but 
the building originally called Langhich was used as a 
all, has been recon3 Beanery, called Skibo, for all you people who wish to 
satisfy the pangs of hunger before 
attending classes. Arrangements 
have been made to accomodate 650- 
700 students and it is open from 7 
a. m. to 8 p. m., seven days a week. 
Make a date to meet and eat there.
Again let us say Welcome to 
Tech. Lets make this, the first 
peacetime year, the best year.
Workers Are Needed 
To Carry on Activities
Come on all you evening school 
students interested in extracur
ricular activities. Here is your op
portunity to get acquainted with 
your fellow students and make this 
years evening school program a real 
Success.
The location of the PLAID office 
has been changed from Industries 
Hall to the Carnegie Union, corner 
of Beeler and Forbes Street, third 
floor, room 7. Anyone interested in 
working on the PLAID should make 
it a point to be there on Friday eve
nings from 8:30 to ? Address any 
inquiries to Evening Student Coun
cil, Box 256, C. I. T.
The number of letters already re
ceived by the Evening Student 
Council from students interested in 
extracurricular activities is very 
gratifying. To John J. Uhl, Audrey 
Myers, Luke R. Gill, Annette Segal, 
Jack C. Griffin, Anne Shack, Mary 
M. Kolson, Charles Amian, Joy A. 
Ridgeway, and Jane Gregg, the 
writers of these letters: come out 
next Friday night to the PLAID of
fice in the Carnegie Union and you 
will be put to work.
Oh joy, oh bliss! Real honest to 
goodness men of the M-A-L-E var
iety sprawl all over the place 
these days. Females with hearts on 
the verge of collapse from lack of 
stimulation sauntered into their 
class in Industries and the impact 
of manly odors just about floored 
them! Theres just nothing like good 
old, beat up old tweeds reeking of 
stale tobacco to perk up a gal, and 
from latest observation those five 
gals were cast into another world 
that world of 1939 and 1940 when 
every gal had a guy or six . . . 
GAMS and more gams which de
scribes a certain would-be writer 
who cant focus his eyes above the 
hem line. The latest odds we can 
get around the PLAID office are 50 
to 1 that he couldnt recognize a 
single girl from the class if they 
sabotaged him and wore long skirts 
to class . . . The Administrative 
staff is just sitting around and unlaxing these dayswith eager beav
ers like the Marcinizyns, all future 
enrollments are a cinchand rival
ling them as to whos cutest and 
smartest and will. reach Tech 
(natch) first are the Ehrlichs and 
the Gassnersone each baby of the 
usual male or female variety arriv
ed in each home recently and were 
all sharing their happiness . . . 
Not to be outdone in this familyman game, Johnny Heinz reached 
the conclusion its a mans duty to 
save at least one gal from that fate 
worse than death and the lucky Mrs. 
is his childhood sweetmeat. Mary 
Welch is tossing her Rs away and 
taking her Voice and Speech class 
ever so seriously with gesture. Her 
throat has gone to bat for her and 
she is now tossing all 26 letters to 
the breezethe poor lass is suffer
ing from loss of voice (Lari-something-or-other) and a fate any 
worse cant befall a lady  just 
imagine no last words. Steve Gatti 
is back and rivals Ed. McDonald 
when it comes to finding it difficult 
to schedule an untried subject . . . 
Bill Blundon left Germany dry as 
a bone and was ever so glad to hit 
Pgh. where the soft drinks flow like 
scotch and soda . . . The manage
ment is not responsible for the 
above and all libel suits become the 
property of yours truly and libel 
spelled backwards looks pretty silly, 
doesnt it.
Workers and Friends 
At Well Earned Picnic
One beautiful Sunday afternoon, 
June 24, 1945, to be exact, the work
ers of Tech Evening School with 
their friends enjoyed a well-earned 
picnic at Washington Grove, North 
Park. After two semesters of hard 
work the time to relax had come, 
and relax is just what we did.
The fun started early; many of
the picnickers arriving in time for 
lunch. The fresh air and strenuous 
exercise, invigorated everyones ap
petite and it wasnt long before the 
odor of roasting hot dogs filled the 
air. Of course, there were other good 
things to eat and drink like potato 
salad, baked beans, cookies and pop.
Some of the fellows and girls 
played mushball on the big field 
next to the grove while others went 
swimming in Wildwood Pool. It was 
a perfect day for swimming and sun 
bathing. Some of the girls found a 
slide nearby and using wax paper, 
they made it so slippery you could 
barely stand on your feet when you 
reached the bottom.
In the evening, by the light of a 
large, yellow, full moon, the ex
hausted boys and girls lolled around 
the fire and harmonized all the old 
and new tunes. Then, weary and 
happy, they departed for their 
homes and the begfnning of another 
week.
nnoiUtte*U fyiaun&l
At last its here! After the past 
few lean registration years, the Eve
ning School enrollment is showing 
an upward trend. It is believed that 
this increase is only the beginning 
of bigger and better years to come. 
The following figures, available at 
this time, uphold this prediction:
19451944
Engineering .............484383
Arts ..........................363220
Margaret Morrison .... 6045
8155
Constitution Being Revised
The revision of the Constitution 
of the Evening Student Council is 
progressing in a normal manner. 
Several meetings of the committee 
have been held and it will soon be 
be possible to present the amended 
constitution in its finished form.
The revision has been necessary 
since there have been many changes 
made on the campus, both as to the 
nature of the studies offered and the 
divisions into which the groups 
and classes hftve been made.
JletteSi to the, Cdiiok
As a reader of the PLAID I wish 
to congratulate all those who have 
taken part in this successful edi
tion.
This paper is the only way for 
the evening students to know just 
what is being planned for their ben
efit. It also provides a means of 
finding out WHOS WHO at Tech.
The PLAID is that colorful tie 
which binds the students into a 
more friendly relationship socially 
and educationally.
Party Scheduled 
For October 27. 
Postponed to Nov. 2. 
Details in Next Issue 
Of the Plaid
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News Editor Frank Mihelich
Associate EditorsVirginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
StaffOlive Baumgardner Nancy E. LewisIrene Koerner Arlene McMurrayEmma Jean Lewis Edw. E. McDonaldDorothy Shields
Council Contributes to Fund
Reviving an old custom of some 
years ago, the Evening Student 
Council made a donation to the 1946 
Endowment Fund. The donation is 
in the amount of fifty dollars, and 
it is to be applied towards the Stu
dents Activity Building, a project 
which the Council establishel near
ly twenty years ago.
The donation was authorized at 
the last meeting of the Council. The 
amount would have been larger had 
there been a greater balance re
maining in the Councils funds.
Study Room 130 Ind. Hall
Gas rationing has been lifted, but 
the car share plan is still in ex
istence; so all you students who 
have to wait around for an hour or 
so for your ride can make good use 
of your spare time by studying in 
Room 130, Industries Hall. This 
room has been furnished with all 
the comforts of home for your con
venience, so lets make good use of 
it to allow yourself more time for 
recreation.
Instrumentation
Continued from page 1 
specting, testing, and control.
More than 400 scientists, indus
trialists, and educators will attend 
the morning and afternoon sessions 
to be held all 3 days. On Tuesday 
Dr. B. R. Teare, Head, Department 
of Electrical Engineering, Carnegie 
Tech will speak. At the Tuesday 
dinner at the University Club, Dr. 
Robert F. Mehl, Head of Depart
ment of Metallurgy, .will be toast
master, and Dr. Robert E. Doherty, 
Carnegie Techs president, will wel
come the guests. Wednesdays pro
gram will include an address by Dr. 
E. M. Williams, Associate Professor, 
Electrical Engineering, Carnegie 
Tech.
David9 the King
Continued from page 3 
and in Martha Foleys collection, 
The Best Stories of 1944. This 
year Miss Foley chose another 
Schmitt story for her 1945 anthol
ogy, which will be available soon.
(Students interested in a prevue 
of David The King are invited 
to attend the Jefferson Club of the 
First Unitarian Church Sunday 
evening, October 28 when Miss 
Schmitt will read from the book.)
Notice
There will be a chapel service 
held in the Little Theatre Fine Arts, 
Tuesday October 23, 1945 at 11:00 
oclock. Dr. L. B. Moseley, head of 
the First Baptist Church will speak 
on Achievement,
