L
* CAR N E G I ETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 57  NUMBER 16WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1964
Freak Explosion In Chem Lab 
Injures Two Dnring Vacation
 Photo by Jim Pawley
Chem lab table after blast involving normally harmless chemicals.
During semester break on the 
afternoon of January 29, a grad
uate chemistry major was ser
iously injured as a result of a 
freak explosion in the organic 
laboratory of Engineering and 
Science Hall.
The explosion resulted from 
.^unexplained conditions during the 
distillation process of ethyl ozodicarboxylate, described by chem
ists as a very routine operation.
Mrs. Bronner 
Leads Series
The YMCA, YWCA and Mens 
J Dorm Council are sponsoring 
MARRIAGE FOR MODERNS, an 
informal series of lectures and 
discussions on modern marriage 
by Mrs. James Bronner, a com
petent specialist who works with 
the Planned Parenthood Center of 
Pittsburgh. It will be held on 
Thursday afternoons at 4:30 be
ginning February 20 and continu
ing through Mai'ch 12 in Room 
J 40, Skibo. The cost is $2.50 per 
person. Registration will be in the 
YMCA-YWCA Office, Room 57, 
Skibo, from now until February 
19. The course will be limited 
to 36 students, so it is important 
to register early.
The course will begin with dis
cussions on the meaning of mar
riage and its expectations. Mrs. 
Bronner will deliver a sex-knowledge inventory as a useful tool 
/for understanding emotions, and 
open a discussion in this area of 
feelings and attitudes. Members 
of the group will have an op
portunity to raise problems which 
they wish to have covered during 
the series, but Mrs. Bronner ex
pects first to cover the initial 
factors of marriage, the prob
lems of the working wife, the 
family budget laws, family plan
ning, and early marriages.
The force of the blast smashed 
beakers, ripped out a two-foot 
section of granite from a chem
istry lab table and shattered thir
teen windows.
Two people were injured by 
the blast. A graduate student, 
Mrs. Aline Nieckars, was hit by 
the granite section of the thighs 
and stomach and escaped serious 
eye injury from the flying glass 
of the shattered beakers because 
she was wearing glasses. The 
other student, Gary Long, a senior 
chemistry major, suffered facial 
cuts.
Both students were sent to 
Shadyside Hospital, escorted by 
Dr. Robert Carlin, head of the
Technical 
Adds Features 
In New Issue
As the cover design of the Feb
ruary Carnegie Technical indi
cates, vectors point to the many 
directions the magazine takes 
this month. Appearing on the 
stands this week, the Technical 
will offer five articles by Tech 
undergraduates, plus articles in 
two new feature departments.
A variety of articles includes a 
study of medical engineering by 
Franklin Borkat, an interpretation 
of Moby Dick and the Puritan 
God by Susan Broadhead, an in
troduction to bionics by Janet 
Scharp, an analysis of phenylretonunia by Lee Alyce Weller, 
and a pictorial essay on Eta 
Kappa Nus pledge projects.
The Technicals new features 
are a math quiz and a schedule of 
job interviews this month on 
campus. Answers to the quiz will 
be printed in the Technical's 
March issue, as will a continua
tion of interview listings.
Department of Chemistry, who 
was summoned after the explo
sion. Mrs. Nieckars, who under
went immediate surgery upon her 
arrival at the hospital, is pres
ently recuperating there and is 
expected to be released some time 
this week. Long had been re
leased within a few hours of his 
arrival on the day of the explo
sion.
At the time of the blast, there 
were four other students in the 
laboratory. There were Sung Ki 
Lee, Pauline Zwithowits, Ingeborg Schuster, and Allan Huff
man. Long had been working on 
an experiment directly across 
from .Mrs. Nieckars.
Hornes Runs 
Film Festival
In conjunction with Show Mag
azine. Homes will stage a weeklong salute to Pittsburghs cul
ture, February 10 through Febru
ary 15. The February issue of 
Show Magazine pays tribute to 
Shakespeare and THE NEW 
PITTSBURGH and its arts. One 
of the events at Homes is:
A SHAKESPEARIAN FILM 
FESTIVAL to be shown in the 
Special Events Center, seventh 
floor, daily. All showings are open 
to the public at no admission. Two 
films have already been shown 
this week, but the remaining 
schedule is as follows:
Thursday, February 13 at 2:00 
p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Richard 
III" with Laurence Olivier, 
 Claire Bloom, John Gielgud, 
and Sir Ralph Richardson. 
(Running time: 2 hrs., 35 min.) 
Friday, February 14 at 2:30 p.m. 
Julius Caesar" with Charlton 
Heston. (Running time: 1 hr., 
30 min.)
-Saturday, February 15 at 11:00 
a.m. and 3 .p.m. A Midsum
mer Nights Dream (Running 
time: 2 hrs., 12 min.)
Campus Religion Conference 
Features Dr. Markus Barth
The annual Campus Conference on Religion will climax 
with an assembly to be held in the Wherrett Lounge of Skibo 
on Tuesday morning, February 18, at 11:30 a.m., featuring 
Dr.- Markus Barth. Dr. Barth, presently a professor of. the 
New Testament at the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary will 
speak on The Apostle Paul m the Light of Contemporary Schol
arship.
B.efore coming to Pittsburgh, he 
was associate professor of t he 
New Testament in the Federated 
Theological Faculty at the Uni
versity of Chicago. A native of 
Switzerland, Dr. Barth received 
his Doctor of Theology degree 
from the University of Goettingen,
Germany, in the field of the New 
Testament. He" is the author of 
several books on New Testament 
theology. He is the son of Pro
fessor Karl Barth, also an out
standing theologian of Basel,
Switzerland.
The assembly follows a number 
of discussions based on the topic 
Whats Wrong with Religion?
Student leaders and faculty re
sources for these discussions par
ticipated in a training session on 
February 3, with Dr. Barth. Fol
lowing the assembly, in the eve
ning. at 5:45, there will be a din
ner with further discussion in
cluding questions from the floor.
Tickets for this dinner, to take 
place in the Highlander Room, 
will be available in the Office of 
Religious Affairs. Those on conDr. Markus, BarHi
tract in Skibo or Morewood need 
pay only the 40 cents service 
charge; others may purchase 
tickets for ,$1.65. Those who wish 
only to hear the discussion may 
come to the Wherrett Lounge at 
6:30 p.m.
CFP Opens Formal Rush: 
VandeLinde Delivers Address
Council of Fraternity Presidents second semester rush 
officially begins tomorrow. A11 those students interested in 
learning more about what fraternities have to offer are given 
this formal opportunity by Carnegie Techs twelve fraterni
ties. Numerous dinner dates are available. President Dave 
VandeLinde will deliver an Orientation talk at which the in
terested student can find out more about the fraternities he 
is interested in.
Schedule of Events 
Thursday, February 13  Rush begins. Orientation talk by 
Dave VandeLinde, President of C.F.P.  7:00 p.m. 
in the Wherrett Lounge, Skibo.
Friday, February 14  Dinner  Party
Monday, February 17  Dinner
Wednesday, February 19  Dinner
Thursday, February 20  Commuter lunch  Dinner
Saturday, February 22  Dinner  Basketball game.
Mademoiselle Selects Entrants 
In College Board Competition
Mademoiselle has announced that Bonnie Austin, a 
senior in Drama and Joyce Bowie, a junior in Painting and 
Design will represent Carnegie Tech in the magazines an
nual College Board Competition.
The competition is designed for women students with 
talent in art, writing, fashion,*----------------------------------------------------.
merchandising, promotion, or ad
vertising. Board members, chosen 
on this basis, will report news 
from their colleges to Mademoi
selle. They are eligible to compete 
for the twenty Guest Editorships 
awarded by the magazine in May 
by submitting a second entry to 
show their specific aptitudes for 
magazine work.
The twenty Guest Editors will
be brought to New York City for 
the month of June to help write 
illustrate, and edit Mademoiselle's 
August 1964 college issue. They 
will share offices with the maga
zines editors, advise the staff on 
campus trends, interview wellknown artists and writers, amf 
represent -the magazine on - visits 
(continued on page 3).

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 12, 1964
BULLETIN BOARD
S V S Auditions
Cast member auditions . for 
Scotch n Sodas 1964 production 
will be held on Saturdays, Feb
ruary 15 and 22 between 1:00 and 
5:00 p.m. and on Friday, February 
21 between 3:30 and 7:30 p.m. in 
the Wherrett Lounge, .Skibo. Any 
Tech student may participate in 
S n S. Students in the Drama 
Department may not be in the 
cast, but they may work in any 
other capacity with S nn S. As 
the show is a musical comedy, 
everyone is asked to bring a pre
pared number' to the auditions. 
This may be a ballad or a spe
cialty number.
Judges for the auditions will be 
the director, Kenneth Johnson; 
musical directors, Dennis Kahle 
and Sherman Himelblau; choreo
grapher, Larry . Miller; author, 
David Hildebrand; and the presi
dent of S n S, Regina Ress. Other 
S n S board members will be at 
the Wherrett Lounge door to take 
names. Sign-up sheets for crews 
will also be available.
Home Economics 
Association
All home economics students 
are invited to join the Tech chap
ter of the American Home Eco
nomics Association. Projects con
cerning various aspects of the 
field of home economics are sched
uled for each of the monthly meet
ings in 1964.
Interested students may join by 
contacting Ann Carten, Jay Priest, 
or Sue Seibert. Dues are $1.00.
Opera Tickets
Tickets for the opera PAGLI
ACCI and CAVALLERIA RUS
TICANA are now on sale in the 
Office of the Dean, College of Fine 
Arts. These operas will be per
formed at the Syria Mosque on 
February 20 and 22. Price of stu
dent tickets: Thursday, February 
20, $1.50 each. Saturday, Febru
ary 22, $1.95 and $2.10.
Gettysburg College 
Choir
The Gettysburg College Choir 
will present a concert of sacred 
music in Heinz Memorial Chapel, 
University of Pittsburgh at 8:45 
p.m. on Friday, February 14, 1964.
Highlights of the program in
clude the motet Sing Ye To The 
Lord by J. S. Bach, Psalm 
Ninety-Eight by Ditzler, and 
works by Ingegneri, Schumann, 
Lockwood, and Poulenc. The pub
lic is invited to attend.
Tech Teaches Journalism
Its, not a regularly scheduled 
course. Its not accredited. It cant 
five you a degree.- But it can give 
you the necessary training in 
journalism, be it rudimentary or 
advanced, depending on the inter
est that you take in learning. The 
Tartan is in the process of solidi
fying a strong news staff; report
ing, re-writing, special features, 
editorials.
If you are in the least interested 
in the thrill of news journalism, 
then make an effort and contact 
the Tartan office through Dale 
Chodorow, News Editor (683-0661 
or 682-4557).
WAAs Fencing Team 
Recruits Members
The Womens Athletic Associa
tion has started its membership 
drive for the fencing team. To be 
eligible, some experience is pre
ferred. Hours for weekly practice 
are on Wednesdays at 3:30 and on 
Thursdays at 3:30.
Miss Birkby, a Pittsburgh pro
fessional fencer, will coach the 
team. Presently, she teaches fenc
ing classes at Tech.
Those interested in trying out 
for the team should contact Edythe 
Mills at 761-6544 before February 
12.
ASME Meeting
How to Size up a Company for 
Employment is the topic of this 
weeks ASME meeting, being held 
at 7:30 on Wednesday, February 
10, in the Wherrett Room of Skibo. 
Mr. W. C. Holloway, of Proctor 
and Gamble is the speaker. Re
freshments will be served. All in
terested students are welcome.
Photo Staff
Students interested in joining 
the Tartan ..photo staff are urged 
to call the Tartan office at 682- 
4557 any time day or night, or 
write to the newspaper in care of 
Campus Mail.
The Tartan is in need of two re
sponsible people who will learn to 
operate its professional news 
camera: a 4 x 5 Polaroid Speed 
Graphic.
Past experience in photography, 
though helpful, is not required. 
Only an interest in taking news 
pictures is nceessary.
Student Congress
I Student Congress will hold an 
important meeting today at 4:30 
p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
The agenda includes reports on 
the present and future state of 
student government. Visitors are 
welcome.
Three positions in Student Gov
ernment are now open. Those in
terested in Publicity Chairman of 
Student Congress should submit 
letters of application stating their 
qualifications to the Chairman of 
Student Congress in care of Dr. 
Stricks office, 103 Skibo. Letters 
are due by 4:30 p.m. Friday, Feb
ruary 14.
Applications for Chairman of 
Homecoming (Fall Festival) com
mittee and a position as justice 
on Student Court will be due 4:30 
Thursday, February 20. These 
letters should be submitted to Ex
ecutive Council in care of Dr. 
Stricks office, 103 Skibo.
TGIF
Frustrated by faltering fall fac
tors? Oppressed by parental pen
ury? Enmeshed in endless educa
tive endeavors? Get away from it 
all. On Friday afternoon, from 4 
to 6 p.m., Skibo ballroom will 
shake to the screamin sounds of 
Dino and the Delrays. The dance 
kicks off the 1964 TGIF schedule 
planned by the General Campus 
Committee of Student Congress.
A.B.Ch.E. Meeting
The Student Chapter of the 
A.I.Ch.E. is holding a meeting to
night Wednesday, February 12 at 
8:00 P.M. in the auditorium. The 
guest speaker will be J. S. Baker 
of Proctor and Gamble, who will 
speak on the topic of Pilot Plant
Summer Theatre 
FOR SALE
intimate, charming theatre in 
the round  seats 250  
fully equipped, excellent re
putation operating success
fully for 12 seasons.
Modest investment
must sacrifice excellent oppor
tunity for a group of theatre 
majors who want to gain ex
perience and run their own 
theatre.
Call 212 FL7-7209
or write to Miss "M. Byer, 45-50 
193rd St., Flushing, N.Y.
Strand
633-6992 
fllRISCH COMPANY.: EOWAHOLALPERSN
v vflrno Amm
ROBERT MITCHUM 
JACK HAWKINS
RAMPAGE'
HAMLET ST. THEATER
cmuiiim risk
Suspense 5m!. By HtS
CRAFT AVE. THEATER
CLOSES SUNDAY
THE TENTH MAN
ABSORBING COMEDY DRAMA
Tues. thru Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30 Sat. $2.00 Other Nights $1.50 
Tickets available at Pitt Book Center 
Reservations 621-4445
Scale-up of Laboratory Reac
tions. Refreshments will be serv
ed after the meeting.
Dance
Are you only a wall-flower? 
Then heres your chance to put 
some fun in your life. Classes in 
social dancing are now being 
plannedCHA, CHA, FOXTROT, 
RUMBA, SWING, TANGO, 
WALTZ, etc . . .
Girls, boys, undergraduates, 
graduates, everyone is welcome. 
We will have a charming, experi
enced instructor! So come to our 
meeting on Thursday, February 
20 at 4:30 P.M. in Skibo, Room
56. If you are interested, but can
not come to our meeting, send a 
postcard to Charles Ho Fook, Box 
263, Campus Mail. Come swinging 
 we have a date on the 20th ..
Bqch Choir Auditions
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh is 
now preparing for its second con
cert of the 1964 season, to be pre.L& 
sented on May 1 at Carnegie Hall, El 
Oakland. The choir will present 
Parts II and III of Handel's 
Messiah. There are openings 
available in all voice parts. Audi
tions may be arranged by calling 
531-3517.
Remember: you're "expected home" at 10
Home by phone, that is. When you set a regular 
day and time to call your parents, youre sure of 
reaching them. Why not make a definite arrange
ment next time you phone homelike tonight.
From Rome came a salesman gregarious, 
to Sweden for seductions nefarious.
The girls were so fair, 
and some of them bare, 
and what happened is downright hilarious!
"loEedxOPndffaBetf
A GEM OF A FILM
-Bos/ey Crewlher. NX. Times
CONTINUOUSLY
AMUSING!
A movie that demonstrates 
again that the best come
dies these days are being 
turned out in Italy."
'-Hollis Alpert, Saturday Rovie*
<&
EXCELLENT... DELIGHTFUL!
AMOROUS ADVENTURES, CERTAIN 
TO SET HEARTS A-HAMMERING IBrofKfaJl Glllt The Ntw Yorktr
DINO DE LAURENTIIS raonio* sTMRwc^lbsriO Sordid
floBed-or ntif foBetf
6GuildML
NOW! Penna. Premier
Dally: 6:10  6:15  10:25

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February lg, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  rate S
^School Notes Passing Of 
Physics Professor Williamson
London-born Charles Oliver Williamson, associate pro
fessor of physics at Carnegie Tech died last January 19 in 
| Shadyside Hospital. He was 72.
Following his retirement 
j member of Carnegie Techs 
| was invited to teach an upgraded 
j physics course in Neville High 
i School in Monroe, Louisiana. The 
| course was part of a program 
j sponsored by Olin Mathieson 
j Chemical Corporation and the 
1 Monroe School system to improve 
| the quality of high school science 
^courses. In 1961, Professor WilJ liamson returned to Carnegie Tech 
| as a lecturer in physics, 
a Professor Williamson held dej grces from Lafayette College, Mc| Gill University of Toronto, Canl ada, MacDonald College, Juillard 
| School of Music, and the Univer% sily of Pittsburgh. He also at| tended the New York Institute of 
Acoustical Arts.
'k His list of organizational mem^ berships included Sigma Xi, the 
I Acoustical Society of America, the 
1 American Association of Physics 
| Teachers,. the American Associa
te tion of University Professors, the 
| Western Pennsylvania Association 
] of Physics Teachers, and Pi Kappa 
jj Alpha fraternity.
A consultant in architectural 
I acoustics, Professor Williamson 
% made his home in Forest Hills, 
I Pennsylvania. During World War 
I II, he had also been a supervisor 
J of Carnegie Techs branch of the 
1 Manhattan Project.
in 1960, after forty years as a 
faculty, Professor Wiliiamson
College Graduates 
? Needed in Africa
For the fourth consecutive year, 
Teachers College, Columbia Uni
versity, is seeking American col
lege graduates to prepare for 
teaching service , in the secondary 
schools of East Africa. The col
lege has undertaken recruiting, 
selecting, and training candidates 
at the request of the Agency for 
International Development of the 
p'-. State Department.- The teachers 
'* are needed in Kenya, Tanganyika, 
Uganda and Zanzibar.
The East African Governments 
have requested more than 100 
tcachcrs in any field for employ
ment beginning in the fall of
(continued on -page 4)
All-Pen 
cartridges fit all these pens
Guaranteed for
 Sheaffer
 Parker
 Esterbrool*
 Wearever
 Venus
 Eversharp
For two-pen studentsfor those with pen-giving relatives. Be preparedstart using All-Pen ink cartridges in your present cartridge penl 
Don't walk a mile for a cartridge. Come in and get AU-Pen Cartridges.Washable Blue, Washable Black Peacock Blue, Jet Black, Cardinal Red, Blue 
Black and Green.
Get All-Pen Cartridges 
C ARN EGR RN I ARN SGR
CIT 
Book Store
Students Receive 
Art Scholarships
Fifteen student in the Depart
ment of Graphic Arts at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology have been 
awarded National Graphic Arts 
Scholarships from the Education 
Council of the Graphic Arts In
dustry, Inc., totaling more than 
$9,000.
Those receiving scholarships, 
varying in amount from $100 . to 
$1,000, were freshmen William T. 
Benunison, James A. Boyd, Irene 
E. Liberman, Kennewi M. Marx, 
John A. Mulholland, PeterE. Nemeroff, Joseph L. OConnor, Alan 
J. Rothchild, Albert T. Sherlock, 
Stephen Silver, and Lanny Up
church; sophomore Henry D. Segalini; juniors Al:an P. Pollock 
and Russell L. Stmeuaugh; and 
senior Joseph E; Sheldrick.
Fourteen of the recipients are 
in the management option and 
one in graphic design.
ACPRA Awards 
Citation To 
Russell Bintzer
Russell Bintzer, vice president 
for development at Carnegie Tech, 
has been awarded the 1964 MidAtlantic District citation for his 
distinguished contribution to edu
cation by the American College 
Public Relations Association 
(ACPRA), the organization of 
which he was a past president.
He is widely known in the field 
of engineering education, and as 
an effective fund raiser. Under 
his direction, the development 
program which began at Carnegie 
Tech in 1957 has achieved over 
80 per cent of its 10-year goal of 
$32,225.00 .
Mr. Bintzer was formerly di
rector of the Second Century 
Fund at Washington University 
in St. Louis, which produced $17 
million in two and a half years. 
He directed a program that re
sulted in construction of a $2 
million laboratory at Drexel In
stitute of Technology, where he 
was assistant to the president and 
executive director of development.

WHERE ELSE
But From the Factory Author
ized Dealer such as M. W. 
Motors can you get a new
VOLKSWAGEN
with everything on it. and in it. that goes with il. Service booklet wilh 300 and 3,000 mile inspections, instruction manual. Factory installed U. S. specifications, (includes genuine leatherette seats) and the factory guarantca honored by every authorized VW dealer In the world.Price is a low $1678 and delivery
M. W. Motors also has the best 
values In used VWs
Today's Best Buy
'58 Volkswagen Sedan 
fully equipped one owner 
$895
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
Phi Kappa Phi 
Initiates 17 
Netv Members
Seventeen seniors at Carnegie 
Tech have been elected as mem
bers of Phi Kappa Phi, the scho
lastic honorary here. They were 
welcomed and initiated at a din
ner held last month in Skibo.
The following were elected 
from the Margaret Morrison Car
negie College: Mary Breitenstein, 
a senior in business and social 
studies; Judy Ann Gray, a senior 
in business and social studies; and 
Mary Ann Gruen, a senior in 
business and social studies.
From the College of Fine Arts 
the following were elected: Doro
thy Roskos Burleigh, a sub-senior 
in music; Louis J. Dezeran, a sen
ior in drama; Michael A. Futterman, a senior in architecture; 
Marilyn. Taft, a senior in music; 
and Terry Scott Heckler, a senior 
in graphic arts.
The following were elected 
from the College of Engineering 
and Science: Wils L. Cooley, a 
senior in electrical engineering; 
Eddie M. Greenawalt, a senior in 
chemistry; Harold J. Hovel, a 
senior in electrical engineering; 
Joseph W. Kownacki, a senior in 
electrical engineering; Walter E. 
Lawrence, a senior in physics; 
Martha R. Miller, a senior in chem 
istry; Roger A. Patterson, a senior 
in electrical engineering; William 
J. Schlitt, a senior in matallurgical engineering; and Ronald T. 
Slivka, a senior in physics.
Mademoiselle 
Selects Entrants
(continued from page 1)
to publishing houses, stores and 
advertising agencies.
They will also be photographed 
for .the college issue, and will be 
considered for future staff posi
tions with Mademoiselle. (As a 
special bonus, the 1963 Guest Edi
tors were flown to Switzerland, 
where they spent six days being 
photographed in the mountains, 
and touring Zurich, Bern, and 
Geneva.)
Ski Club Reports On Stowe; 
Laurel Mountain Trip is Next
By Tom A. Glassberg
On Thursday afternoon, very few minutes after their last 
finals were over, an advance party of four left from ift front 
of Morewood to Stowe, Vermont. Arriving at seven Friday 
morning, the exhausted and weary expeditioners were ready 
to attack the slopes. Skiing was fine the first day, so the 
venturesome foursome called back 
to Pittsburgh to let the rest of 
the Tech Ski Club know that 
Stow was typically ski-able."
Nine more skiers left Tech at 
the unlikely hour of five Saturday 
morning and joined the original 
four .on the mountain Sunday 
morning. The lucky thirteen Tech 
ski clubbers enjoyed a weekthat 
started off with one day of light 
rain (perfect for sitting in front 
of a fire and meeting all the snow 
bunnies!), followed the next day 
by almost one whole lot of beau
tiful, soft, dry powder snow.
Monday morning, before dawn 
had a chance to crack, the crowd 
was anxiously waiting by the en
trance to the Mount Mansfield 
Double Chair lift in order to get 
the first chance at the new ac
cumulation of powder. Skiing con
ditions were excellent for the first 
part of the week, and Stowes im
mense Mount Mansfield and 
Spruce Peak provided fine skiing 
for all class skiers.
For the beginner there is Toll 
Road, a four mile, gradually slop
ing, twisting path that is used 
as a road during the summer 
months. With the professional 
struction available, the beginner 
spends only a few days on this 
paradise for lazy skiers until he 
progresses to the intermediate 
areas. For the more advanced 
skier there are trails unlimited.
The Tech group intermediates 
found Lullabye, Charley Lord.
Hayride, Martinstreet, and Sterl
ing the finest of the numerous 
runs available to them:
If the intermediates had a lot 
of running room, then the experts 
really had their heyday. Nose
dive, National, International, and 
the Shutes were the most popular 
of tho expert trails. Besides all 
these slopes, practically everyone 
took  run or two down through 
the Glades. The Glades is an area 
semi-densely populated by trees 
and in deep powder, novice to ex
pert can traverse foralmost an 
hour through the Glades making 
new trails and following others.
Between Classes or at Study Break   
-SCOTTY'S
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES-AVENUE 
...and ...
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
JUNIORS, SENIORS and 
<iUNQCQ> GRADUATE STUDENTSOn-Campus Interviews
------ MARCH 3rd-----------
Both Permanent and Summer Positions Are Available In Philadelphia, 
Penna., Dallas, Texas, and Toledo, Ohio For Men In These Fields;
 CHEM. ENGRG.
 MECH. ENGRG.
 ELEC. ENGRG.
 CHEMISTRY
 OPERATIONS RES.
 MATHEMATICS
Vis?# your Placement Office now to Schedule an Appointment. If per
sonal interview is inconvenient, write to Co//ege Relotions Division 
SUN OIL COMPANY
1608 Walnut Street Philadelphia 3, Penna.
An Equa/ Opportunity Employer
 ACCOUNTING
 BUSINESS ADMIN.
 IND. MGMT./ADMIN.
 ECONOMICS
 MARKETING
 TRANSPORTATION
Enough about the skiing . .  
now about the living. For $1.55 
a night and a sleeping bag (is that 
cheaper than Morewood?) the ski 
club found the Vermont State Ski 
Dormitory quite reasonable. Col
lege students come from all over 
the eastern United States and the 
Techites made many new acquain
tances (right Carol?).
This is not meant to be an ad
vertisement for either the Tech' 
Ski Club or the Mount Mansfield 
Ski Area. However, we all know 
that in skiing the old maxim the 
more the merrier always holds 
true. If you already ski, there is 
no heed for encouragement; how
ever, if you have been sitting in 
that dorm or fraternity house and. 
watching all these snowy week
ends drift by . . . then quit that 
incessant studying, take a break, 
and learn to ski.
On Sunday, February 16, a 
charter bus will leave campus for 
the Laurel Mountain Ski Area. 
Special rates have been arranged 
so that the-novice will pay twelve 
dollars and receive a full day's 
siding, an hour professional in
struction, transportation and free 
rental on skis, boots, and poles 
. . . all you need! The rate is 
eight-fifty without the rentaL 
Those interested should call Ski 
Club President Tony Williams at 
683-5496 no later than this Fri
day in order to reserve a seat.
See ya on the bus!
BIG is the world's finest 
writing instrument-writes 
on and on-yet it costs only 
19$. Only GIC .is guaran* 
teed* to write first time \Wj
every time. BICVDyamite* yif
Ball Point is the hardest 
metal made by man. Get a 0IC, now at 
your campus store. BIC "Crystal' I9$j 
BIC pens available with blue, red, greenj 
and black ink. Made in U.S.A. *For re* 
placement send pen to:
WATERUAN BIC PEN CORP., MILFORD, CONft

---------------------------------------------------

Page   CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 1, 1964
Film Close Up
by Stillwater Pierce
Knife in the Water
.(Shadyside Theatre, Walnut St.: showing at 6, 8 and 10 p.m.)
Knife in the Water, a new Polish experimental film, 
_turns gut to create only a minor ripple in the stream of 
current cinema. The work of Roman Polanski, a graduate of 
Warsaws highly successful state film school, this movie sets 
up an interesting situation and then fails to deliver the 
goods.
We are introduced to a young married couple, about 
to embark on a one-day sailing expedition, who pick up a 
teenage hitch hiker. The hitch hiker is invited abroad, and 
the three of them set out for some nautical fun under the 
sun. But, of course, that eternal triangle transcends oceans, 
and soon we sense a certain tension between the husband 
(captain) and young stranger (first mate). The reader may 
feel that he has seen this movie somewhere before and 
indeed he has, in Rene Clements magnificent Purple 
Noon. But the difference between Clements handling of 
this situation, and Polanskis execution, is that difference 
between mastery and cloying artiness. Clement seasoned 
his melodramatic stew with pinches of homosexuality and 
sadism, lending to it a distinct', subtle flavor. Polanski sea
sons his Hitchcock (see Lifeboat) porrage with yester
days left-overs, giving it only a distinctly stale quality.
He tries to compensate for his lack of originality by 
introducing some tricky camera techniques. We see most 
of the action from the ground, looking up, as though we in 
the audience were a shiprat scurrying about the deck.
Polanski also shoots past ears and noses, filling half of 
his screen with the actors facial characteristics. These 
devices occasionally make the film an aesthetically pleasing 
experience, but unfortunately his pretentious artiness is 
seldom justified in terms of the content.
Polanski has taken the patch of most new film makers, 
choosing to follow one simple event in all its complexity, 
rather than to chronicle a lavish spectacle of sorts. He uses 
only three actors, which proves, if nothing else, that Cecil 
B. DeMille is indeed dead. However, neither are the char
acters interesting enough, nor the dialogue sufficiently en
ticing to sustain our attention. The conflicts between hus
band and wife anger no true insights into their relationship; 
the husbands attack on the hitch hiker is provoked by 
childish jealousy and seems quite contrived. Finally, an 
elaborate irony at the end doesnt quite work, since weve 
encountered the same ironic situation so often before. In 
short, this movie seems to embody almost every failing of 
experimental cinema: it is self-conscious to the point of 
embarrassment, unorthodox for no other reason than to be 
orthodox, and tedious where it should be suspenseful.
Shadyside housewives are not known for their cine
matic perspicacity. A moviehouse, to most of them, is a 
place where one goes to chat with a friend while the lights 
are down. But among this well-groomed canasta set we 
sometimes find an enlightened sophisticate. Such a cultured 
matron was the woman in front of us during this film. 
When it had ended she rose, clutched her mink, and said to 
her companion: That was the most pointless film Ive ever 
seen. Her critique deserves consideration, for Knife in 
the Waters ultimate flaw is its lack of a raison detre.
This Week In Pittsburgh
ON CAMPUS:
Film Arts, An American In Paris, Thursday,
February 13, 4:30, 7:00, and 9:30.
OFF CAMPUS:
Carnegie Music Hall, the Music of Vincent Perichetti, 
Saturday, February 15, 3:00 p.m.,  Admission free.
Carnegie Music Hall, Department of Music Concert 
in cooperation with Misericordia College, Dallas, 
Penna., Wednesday, February 19, 8:30 p.m.
Syria Mosque, Pittsburgh Symphony: featuring Zino 
Francescatti (violin) playing Saint-Saens 
Concerto No. 3 in b minor for Violin, John Pritchard, 
conducting; 8:30 p.m., February 14 and 16.
YM-YWHA, February 13, 8:15  "The Idea of 
Comedy lecture free.
Congress 
Meets Today
Tom Miller, President of Ex
ecutive Council, and Bob Mer
cer, Chief Justice of Student 
Court, are featured speakers at 
todays 4:30 Student Congress 
meeting in S k i b o  s 'Wherrett 
Room. Miller, anticipating spring 
Congress elections, will present 
his ideas on the representative 
structure of Techs student gov
ernment. Mercer will recom
mend several changes in the 
campus judicial system which he 
has served for three years.
Butch Davis, chairman of the 
Finance Committee, is compos
ing the 1964-65, $15,00 campus 
activti.es budget. Over half of the 
organizations who received 
money last year have not yet 
submitted their requests.
The student body will soon be 
asked to consider the school cal
endar. The faculty calendar com
mittee is discussing several pos
sible holiday changes and con
sidering a proposal to push fi
nals to before Christmas. This 
would be done by starting school 
earlier in September, and end
ing in mid-May. The alterations 
. involve the 1965-66 year.
The Worlds Fair has offered 
Congress tickets at a discount if 
sold on compus in blocks of 50. 
Interested fair-goers should con
tact Congress representatives.
The Chairmanship of the Pub
licity Committee is open due to 
the resignation of Chris. Macosko, who is now heading Fresh
man Orientation. Interested stu
dents should apply to Tom Pyke.
Send CBook Corrections 
To CBook 
Box 579 
Campus Mail 
Deadline February 21 
Include old listing
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Small Cylinders
Columbia U. 
Seeks Teachers
(continued from page 3)
1964. To date, Teachers College 
has selected and trained some 
400 teachers under this program.
Those interested are urged to 
apply immediately. Applicants 
must be United States citizens. 
Accepted candidates will receive 
training fellowships at Teachers 
College, Makerere University, 
Kampala, Uganda, or at both in
stitutions. Upon completion of 
training, the teachers will receive 
two-year appointment as salaried 
education officers in East Africa.
A brochure with details of the 
program can be obtained by writ
ing to: Teachers for East Africa, 
Teachers College, Columbia Uni
versity, New York, N.Y. 10027.
Recently the neverending battle against wrongdoing** 
has moved against cigarettes. It seems that cigarettes are 
harmful; since they are harmful, society should protect 
any individual who chooses to smoke (against his best in
terests) by regulating advertising, raising cigarette taxes, 
etc. These suggested reforms are meant to protect the 
coming generations from the scourge  the present one is 
hopelessly corrupted.
The idea of publicizing the reports linking smoking^, 
with cancer seems good  prospective smokers should be 
fully aware of what they are getting into. However the idea 
of restricting cigarette advertising does not follow. Why 
should the cigarette companies not be allowed to persuade 
persons that the pleasure involved in smoking is worth the 
risk? As has been previously discussed, value judgments, 
like this one, should be made by the persons concerned, not 
by groups.
If persons are persuaded, then perhaps some of the4? 
persuaded individuals will die earlier than otherwise; this 
may cause hardships to their families. Thus it can be claim
ed that smoking does really harm others, and therefore is a 
legitimate concern of government.
But is this harm direct? If a person is not allowed to 
take an action which concerns only his own body, then 
there is no reason why his every movement can not be 
supervised. Only where the immediate or certain effect of 
an action is harmful to the province of government  and 
even then to eliminate the harm may cause more damage / 
than the harm itself.
Cigarette smoking may be unhealthy, and this may 
cause harm to a smokers dependents, but the happiness 
resulting from smoking may be greater than the unhap
piness that results from the ill-effects. The decision can be 
made by each person only for himself.
No groiip, no matter how wise, can set itself up as a 
judge of any mans happiness. (One mans meat is an-r 
other mans poison.) To allow a government to make suchsubjective decisions would mean the acceptance of the 
idea that one man has the Tight to control another mans 
life. This is a perversion of the idea of government as an 
instrument to further the individual wellbeing.
One final note: the above arguments can also be applied 
to other narcotics.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk GuitarFred Albitz  Featured at the Casbah and many other Pittsburgh spots  and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons at The Peter Hughes School of Music. Call: 731-1844.
LOST  Would person who accidentally took' my green trench coat from PiKA Dec. 6. 1963, please call Dennis Taylor,
Street 662-0638.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNO
Editor in-Chief............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor .............................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ...........................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager..................................Michael McCoy
News Editor .......................................... Dale Chodorow
Layout Editor .................................-...Drew Lippay
Assistant News Editor ................................Alma Rock
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...............................John Norris
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor  ..............................Tom Johnson
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Ine. 
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, fcorbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Glassberg, Bob Griscom, Karen Mihm, Marti Moore, Marion Mulligan, Jim Panepinto, Ellisa Parker, Peggy Rlva, Penny Ross. Grctchen Smith, Bob Wohlford.
Features SUIT: Jeffrey Axelrad, Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg, Martha Hodgson, Arlene Kadish, Marlon Mulligan, Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells, Stephen Yafa. % Sports Stall: Jay Arnold, Ron Bldula, Dick Elder, Randy French, A1 Green,"/ Chris Macosko.Layoot Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder. Drew Lippay, Beverely Phllofsky, Ted 
Picrce, Marion Mulligan, Barbara Thorton, Marylu Recco, Brucc McDonald,Sharon Shuttleworth.
Ream, Mike Grcenawalt, Nancy Green.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarlan. Beth Carton, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, Carol Kamell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vlnograd, Carol Young.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 12, 196  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pace 
Radio System Helps Operation 
Of Carnegie Tech Security Police
y
Had it not been for the swift action of Carnegie Techs 
Security Police Department last month during the aftermath 
of the chemistry lab explosion (See Page 1, Column 1), the 
injuries to those - involved would have been a great deal 
worse than they were.
Recently the Security Police De
partment of Carnegie Tech acquir
ed use of radio equipment and. 
with a. maximum range of six 
miles, the eight receiving and four 
transmitting c r y s t a 1-controlled 
walkie-talkie units have immense
ly aided the operation of the de
partment. During 'a recent fire in 
Machinery Hall which erupted 
from a short-circuit.in an electric
al panel, the campus police were 
better able to control the situation 
through the use of these radios.
On that afternoon of January 
29, though, Officer Robert Graeser 
of the campus police department, 
who had just begun his 4 oclock 
to midnight shift, heard the ex
plosion from Engineering and. Sci
ence Hall as he passed the flag
pole toward Skibo. The time was 
3:55. He immediately called the 
Security Office on his radio, a 
portable unit about the size of two 
cigarette packs and weighing only 
thirteen ounces, and reported that 
he had heard the sound of shatter
ing glass coming from Engineering 
and Science Hall.
Officer Graeser ran to the build
ing, entered, and found Gary 
Long in the corridor with blood 
on his face. Both of them were 
taken by the other students who 
had seen the explosion to Mrs.
Nieckars, the other injured person.
Graeser then called the Secur
ity Office again and asked that 
they summon an ambulance. The 
base station, located in the secur
ity Office with a thirty-foot an
tenna mounted on the roof of Ad
ministration hall, thencalled for 
an ambulance and relocated two 
other officers, one to Forbes Street 
and one to Frew Street, to meet 
the ambulance when it arrived.
During the second call, Officer 
Graeser was able to furnish more 
complete details of the explosion 
with regard to lire, danger and 
state of the injured.
The ambulance arrived at 4:05 
 a short span of only ten min
utes! Dr. Carlin then escorted the 
two injured parties to Shadyside 
Hospital.
The radio system, which en
abled the summoning of help at a 
minimum loss of time that day, is 
not localized for only Carnegie 
Tech use. It is on the same fre
quency as the University of . Pitts
burgh. Their antenna is located 
on the top of the Cathedral of 
Learning, giving them a greater 
range than that of Tech, but the 
system here operates with more 
power.
Although someone is always in 
the Security Office at Tech to re
ceive calls, the frequency duplica
tion at the two schools provides 
for a corraborating monitor sys
tem for each and greater knowl
edge and co-operation between 
them. Pitt also has mobile trans
mitters and receivers, which al
low Carnegie Tech to summon
aid and equipment if it is need
ed here.
Previous to the installment of 
this system, the Security Police 
of Carnegie Tech had to depend 
upon administrative public phones 
to relay messages back to their 
offices. The radio system has 
given their department much 
greater independence, for it has 
saved time in note taking (each 
security officer must record spe
cific information for reports) and 
it notifies the office of suspicious 
conditions in anticipation of 
trouble, as in the case of the re
cent lab explosion.
The system has also given the 
officers of the department a great 
deal more of their own security, 
because the use of such a system 
guarantees the summoning of as
sistance at their call.
 Mr. Young, director of the Se
curity Police Department of Car
negie Tech, feels that the sys
tem has allowed a better and 
more efficient direction of opera
tions. It is his opinion that a 
man with a radio is worth three 
officers with regard to the work 
he can do, for it is easier to.di
rect him to areas where his ser
vices are most needed.
SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
Some FINANCIAL HELP in Order to Complete Their 
Education This Tear and Will Then Commence Work. 
to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION. INC.Educational Fdn, 610 ENDICOTI BLDG., ST. PAUL
UNDERGRADS, CLIP AND SAVE nB
TEACH IN AFRICA?
YES:  If you . . .
1.  Have a Bachelors, or preferably, a Masters Degree.
2. Have at least 30 semester hours credit in one of the follow
ing; a. chemistry, b. physics, c. biology, d. mathematics, 
e. industrial arts, t. English, g. French, h. business educa
tion or business administration.  ^3. Have a real desire to teach in Nigeria of Ghana at the high 
school level.4. Are single, or married without children or no more than 
one'child below school age.
5. Are in good health.
If you are Interested, please write to:TEACHERS FOR WEST AFRICA PROGRAM 
Elizabethtown College, Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania
Photo by Howard SchwartzCampos policeman shows use of newly adopted radio.
rAN OPPORTUNITY TO GROW AIN THE HIGHEST PROFESSIONAL jWORKING ENVIRONMENT 1
TUTOFHLOYU TheLhTTHm 
Dr.mLOLmFm
EVSATHEMATICIANS
FMakusa,B NMiNMdMut,tsoMd RA tkM nLFHT ORNiRN,tsRu 
csBB pM aRuybatsug sutMNosMcd Ru a,libd 
February 14
MITRE designs and develops systems that enable our mili
tary commanders to detect attack and retaliate instantly. 
Typical systems include Nuclear Detonation Detection and Reporting System, North American Air Defense Combat 
Operations Center, and Back-Up Interceptor Center. 
MITRE is also experimenting with techniques for future air 
traffic control systems.
For the young systems engineer there is no more rewarding 
work. You associate with the top men in your field. You 
work in an atmosphere that allows you to extend your 
capabilities professionally and academically.
At MITRE, men trained in single disciplines are encour
aged to grow beyond their original fields of interest. Systems designers learn to work from an increasingly broad base.
You may work in such diverse'areas as information 
theory, computer design, display techniques, propagation, 
or human engineering. You may analyze. You may syn
thesize. You may deal with systems or individual compo
nents. At the highest levels, you may have to consider 
political, economic and social factors ... as well as the 
available and predictable technology.
Requirements, B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in these disciplines  
electronics, physics, and mathematics. MITRE is located in 
pleasant, suburban Boston, and also has facilities in 
Washington, D.C. and Colorado Springs. If an interview 
will be inconvenient, inquiries may be directed in confidence 
to Vice President  Technical Operations, The MITRE 
Corporation, Box 208, Dept.CN7 Bedford, Mass.
ARRANGE FOR AH INTERVIEW THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
MITRE
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Pioneer in the design and development of command and 
control systems, 'MITRE was chartered in 1958 to serve 
only the United States Government. The independent nonprofit firm is technical advisor and system engineer for the 
f Air Force Electronic Systems Division and also serves the 
^ Federal Aviation Agency and the Department of Defense.V_______nvTrmrmi_____--Tr-Tl-Tr^i

---------------------------------------------------

race S  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 12, 1961
Students, New Grads9 Alumni 
Find Job Opportunities 
With Placement Bureau Aid
February marks a significant 
time at Carnegie Tech for every
one. For the student body, its the 
commencement of second term 
studies. For seniors, it's a time to 
consider, besides preparation for 
graduation, the acquisition of post
graduate employment. This com 
bination poses a situation of ex 
treme complexity for them, for 
each is difficult in itself. 
Operations
The Bureau of Placements, with 
a staff of only nine  four ad 
ministrative and five clerical  
personnel, accomplishes this ser
vice for not only seniors, but eve
ning students and alumni. The 
purposes of the organization are 
to provide a centralized bureau 
for job placement to serve under
graduates, graduates, and alumni 
students of Carnegie Tech who 
wish permanent or temporary em
ployment.
To best understand these opera
tions, it is wise to break them 
down into five phases  student 
files, company visit scheduling, 
office facilities, evening place
ment, and alumni placement. 
Student Folders
Each year around September 
requests are sent out by the Bur
eau to the Registrars office for 
senior transcripts. Along with 
these are requested appraisals of 
the students by at least three fac
ulty members or the department 
office.
Each of the evaluations which 
are submitted remain confidential 
despite student requests to see 
their folders. Because of this pol
icy, the faculty is given complete 
freedom of expression in evalu
ating students. This does not 
imply that he is free to disparage 
the students, for it is the policy of 
the Bureau to dissuade all such 
evaluations and send them back to 
the department with instructions 
to appraise not belittle. A basic 
intention is to view the good side 
and the talents of every student, 
and to increase the students 
chances of securing a job.
Through correspondence with 
companies and industrial firms, 
the Bureau arranges times when 
companies can visit the campus to 
hold interviews. Presently com
pany interviews are scheduled up 
until April, 1965. These scheduled 
interview sessions acquaint the 
students with the companies and 
the companies with the students. 
Interview Lists
At the beginning of each year, 
all seniors receive a list x of the 
companies scheduled to appear on 
campus for interviews. Through
out the year, supplementary lists 
are sent out and notices of job 
interviews are printed in the Tar
tan and Technical. Outside Suite 
10 in Skibo, the Bureau of Place
ments office, final notices of the 
time of company interviews are 
posted. These notices are usually 
posted ten days before a com
panys arrival on campus.
Upon arrival on campus, the 
companies will be introduced to 
the applicants, and view the stu 
dent folders which the Bureau has 
compiled. Many companies feel 
that the folders tell an incomplete 
story of the student and rely 
mostly on the proceedings of an 
interview. Although the folder is 
often used its importance varies 
with different companies.
The item that is most stressed 
by the companies is the back
ground and the qualifications of 
the individual. They are more 
concerned with the why of a stu
dents talents than the whats. In 
other words, not satisfied with 
mere knowledge of a students 
capabilities, these companies 
strive to learn the individuals 
thoughts on his qualifications and 
under what conditions they were 
developed.
A students folder becomes 
more complete as letters, records 
of interviews or additional information is added as a result of 
meetings and sessions with com
pany representatives.
The Bureau attempts to follow 
up a students dealings with com
panies from the time the initial 
transcripts are procured until the 
time when he accepts a position. 
Students Relate
The Bureau also asks that the 
students relate pertinent informa
tion back to the Bureau concern
ing acceptance of a position or j 
any change which is made after 
this position has been secured. 
They stress that all such forward
ed information will be treated in 
confidence. In this way, the Bur
eau is best able to adjust to 
changes in the process of securing 
employment and aid future stu
dents in their approach to job 
procurement. They try to under
stand the best ways by which he 
can get results. Instructed by the 
Bureau in correct methods of 
making the right impression, he is 
best able not to hinder his own 
efforts.
The busiest time for counseling 
in the Bureau of Placements is 
between February and May when 
senior students are seeking post
graduation employment. Ad
vanced degree candidates have 
their interviews scheduled in the 
early part of the school year be
tween October and January. 
Evening Students
The evening students who seek 
employment are relatively few, as 
most evening students hold jobs 
during the day anyway. Yet there 
is a placement .service for them, 
and the Bureau is just as eager to 
find them. employment as anyone 
else who seeks it. The Bureau also 
refers students for summer em
ployment.
During the year, there are about 
100 alumni who register for 
placement. There are also be
tween 200 and 300 offers received 
each month by the Bureau for ex
perienced personnel. Before last 
July, this service was merely an 
added feature of the Bureau. At 
that time, a decision had to be 
made to either disband alumni 
operations or establish a separate 
department for them, which they 
did, as a full-time alumni em
ployment service.
Bureaus Success
The . Bureau estimated that by 
graduation, about 90% of all En
gineering and Science and Indus
trial Management seniors have 
jobs. The remaining 10% invariaWHATSMEW
IN THE FEBRUARY
ATLANTIC?
J,ua, D,aP,Nyf vFkM Luo,dsRu RAPrivacy; Information is power. This revealing article shows how much and how and by whom it Is being ferreted out about Americans.
"Exhlbltlonshlp**: An expostulation by Ernst H. Gombrich, prompted In pari by the decision to send the Venus de Milo to Japan for the Olympics. 
"Is Thera a Naw Germany?": Martha Gellhorn reports on whether the young* - er generation In Germany could in time be responsible for a new Germany.
PLUS AN ATLANTIC EXTRA
"The Ghastly Blank**: Alan Moore* head describes the first exploration of the vast central part of Australia. - 
And poetry by William Stafford, Thomas Hornsby Ferril, Robert,/ Graves. Fergus Allen. Stuart HomsJey and 4 new poets.
Month in, month out The Atlantic's editors seek out exciting expressions of new and provocative ideas.And whether these expressions take the form of prose or poetry, fact or fiction, they always attain a remarkably high level of academic value and literary Interest.Make room in your
* rPhoto by Jim Pawley
J. Dennis Ryan, Assistant Director of Bureau with company representative.
bly become placed at the close of 
the summer. Concerning the Fine 
Arts and Margaret Morrison Car
negie Colleges, it was more diffi
cult to secure accurate percentage
figures as the conditions under 
which these seniors face the busi
ness world after graduation is far 
different from that of other de
partments. The MMCC placement
is dependent on conditions of 
marital status and limitation of 
opportunities for women, and the 
Fine Arts placement is difficult in 
(continued on page 8)
I X!
'64 EXCITING CORVETTE-Sting Ray Sport Coups
YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER HAS MORE TO OFFER:
luxury cars, thrifty cars, sport cars, sporty cars, big cars 
small cars, long cars, short cars, family cars, personal cars
45 DIFFERENT MODELS OF CARS
Why one stopat your Chevrolet dealer's is like having your own private auto show
And if we had room here we could go on and list all the engines Chevrolet offers, j 
ranging up to an extra-cost 425-hp V8in the big Chevrolet. And all the different: 
transmissions. And the umpteen different exterior and interior color choices.' 
And the models with bucket seats and those without. And the hundreds of 
different accessories, including the new extra-cost AM-FM radio. But thats best  
left to your Chevrolet.dealer. That and exactly how reason
able the price can be for you to be able to enjoy so much car.
THE GREAT HIGHWAY PERFORMERS Chevrolet - CheveUt  Chevy II  Conair  Corvetta,
See them al your Chevrolet Showroom

---------------------------------------------------

md*el*r. February 1. 19*4 - CABNEGIE TARTAN - f.te 1
, Teth-Duquesne Suspend 
AtUetk Relations
By DICK ELDER
Following the February 15 Tech-Duquesne game at the 
Pitt Feld House, athletic relations between the neighboring 
schools will be suspended.. This action, initiated by Tech 
Athletic Director and Basketball Coach Mel Cratsley culy minated a slowly wideneing rift between the two teams 
* which has increased tension since ?;-----------------------------:-------------
the days of the free swinging 
Dukes player Mike Rice.
Mr. Cratsley announced the 
suspension following a fight be
tween the two jayvee teams on 
Februray 3 preceding the DuBetas, Delts 
Favored 
In Bowling
Perennial champions Beta Theta 
Pi completely outclassed the 
usually rugged Grad Eagles last 
Saturday afternoon on the Strand 
Alleys. Beta, led by Roy Giugerys 
* 597 set, rolled a 2,523 while the I 
Grads could manage only a 2.270. 
Lew . Doughty was high for the 
Grads with a 507.
Delta Tau Delta beat the Maiirauders 2286-2063, with the Delts 
Weissenstein having a 479 and 
Snyder high for the Maurauders 
with a 4B2.
The Dorm Trojans rolled over 
} Tau Delta Phi 2440-2330. Fitch 
for the Dorms had a 520, while 
Piscitelli of TDP had a 539.
Sigma Nu qualified for the 
semi-finals by beating Sigma Al
pha Epsilon 2386-1988. Hender
son of SN rolled a 547 and Har
vey Gammon of SAE was . high 
with a 457 set.
In contention for the top spot, 
BTP and SN will meet next 
week with the winner playing the 
' victor of the DTD-Dorm Trojan 
match.
Grove City 
Tournament
Grove City College First AnI nual Men's Invitational Bowling 
Tournament is to be held Febru
ary 22 and 29, 1964. Costs have 
been kept at a minimum. They 
arc $22.50 per six-man team com
plete except transportation. This 
includes bowling, trophy fee, pinboy tips, and administration. Tro
phies will be awarded for first, 
second, and third place in the 
} following events:
A. Team Event  Trophy pre
sented to school
B. Double Event  Individual
C. Singles Event  Individual 
Information and applications
may be obtained by calling 683- 
3055,
Hey UM AC! 
Watch For
UMOC
quesne-Santa Clara ganie. Threefourths of the way through the 
game, a jump ball situation ex
isted between a Tech player and 
a Duquesn j player, but another 
Duquesne player . piled onto the 
struggle. A fight insued with few 
officials or police anxiqus to break 
the players apart.
During the following DuquesneSanta Clara fight, Crasley de
cided that the basketball theories 
of the two schools no longer coin
cided.
Tartans Start 
Strong, Finish 
8 Points Down
St. Vincents basketball team 
was to have been the whipping 
post for a discouraged Tartan 
team which was still experienc
ing pain from its defeat by Pitt 
and Westminster. Neither the 
visiting Bearcats nor the officials 
were willing to concede the game 
to Tech; however, as the papers 
and apparently too many Tar
tans had already done.
The game began as though the 
predictions were to be realized 
as the Tartans were effectively 
moving the ball for open jump 
shots. to built a 20-8 lead. Al
though the Tartan pefcentage was 
lowin shooting and St. Vincent 
was controlling the defensive 
boards, Tech would hustle back 
to an aggressive 1-3-1 defense 
which was frustrating Bearcat
 Photo by Walter Grayman
Tartans nofeli another two points on the scoreboard.
If you are preparing yourself for a career in en
gineering, it will pay you to consider West Penn 
Power. Whether your major is in Electrical, Me
chanical, Industrial or Civil Engineering, youll 
find 'challenging work with this progressive 
company serving a dynamic, growing industry. 
Capable, ambitious engineers will find oppor
tunities for exciting work in transmission, distri
bution, power station and sales engineering 
including work in research and computers. Talk 
to our representative when he visits your campus 
and get the full story.At West Penn Power, engineers have a vital 
role in keeping our business alive and growing. 
In ten years, the electric power industry will 
double its generating capacity... exciting proof 
that you can find not only chalienging.engineering, 
positions... but great opportunities to move into 
management capacities. Youll learn from your 
talk with our representative that, at West Penn, 
engineers fill important posts in. many phases of 
the companys operation. Were a company that 
knows and talks your language.
If you are looking for a career where ,you can 
put your engineering skills to work... and have the 
opportunity to move ahead as well, be sure to sign 
up today for an interview with West Penn Power.
Find out on February 25
WEST PENN POWER COMPANY
O,psu rsBB2 eNMMudpbNg2 DMuud1Bo,RB, 77- 2

---------------------------------------------------

rue S  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 18, 196
St. Vincent Defeats 
Hopeful Tartans
(continued from page 7) 
attempts to pass among them
selves. .
Tartan hopes for an easy rout 
began to' diminish as the visitors 
began to press their 1-3-1 de
fense to bother Tech and steal 
passes which they recovered and 
were converting by penetrating 
the Tartan, defense under . the 
basket. St. Vincent was scoring; 
ten points while Tech was at
tempting to reorganize and be-, 
ginning to experience the tight 
officiating which was giving free 
throws to the visitors at a high 
pace.
By the half, however, Tech had 
regained some composure and was 
holding a 40-31 lead despite nu
merous fouls.
Hopes that Tech could regain 
its superiority for a second halfrout dribbled away as Tartan 
shots were rimming the basket 
before falling into Bearcat hands 
and St. - Vincent was driving 
around the defense to close the 
gap in score.
With 8:05 gone in the second 
half, St. Vincent had. gained a 
46-46 score which was to spell 
Tartan downfall as Tech lost 
"most of its composure and the 
Bearcat realized how fallible Tech 
had become.
Kalin fouled out with nine min-utes gone, but Tech was still 
holding out on an exchange of 
baskets basis. St. Vincent changed 
into a man-to-man defense, how
ever, to further confuse the Tar
tan offense which was losing most 
of its offensive attack while Tech's 
defense continued to foul.
By fifteen minutes through the 
half, Niedra was out on fouls with 
McGeary to follow within twenty 
seconds and Tech had lost its 
most effective inside men. With 
them gone, it was merely a mat
ter of procedure until the Bear
cats would gain command which 
they did on free throws and held 
to the 69-61 victory.
St. Vincent stands at 2-9 and 
will again meet Tech at Latrobe 
on February 29. Till then, Tech
NYU Offers 
Junior Year 
In New York
College students wishing to in
vestigate the unique opportunities 
offered by New York City in the 
arts, business, international af
fairs, and other fields can do so 
by enrolling in New York Uni
versitys Junior Year in New 
'York'' program now in its sev
enth year.
To be accepted, a student must 
have a good scholastic average, a 
recommendation by the dean of 
his college, and a program of 
study approved in advance by the 
advisor of his home college. It 
is understood that the Junior Year 
student will return to his home 
school for his degree.
The NYU program is sponsored 
by three of the Universitys di
visions: Washington Square Col
lege of Arts and Science, the 
School of Education, and the 
School of Commerce, Accounts, 
and Finance. Students may take 
courses in any of the three di
visions.
The Junior Year program is de
signed to allow students to com
bine academic studies with ex
ploratory contracts in fields of fu
ture careers and experience with 
New York Citys theaters, con
cert halls, art museums, and the 
Wall Street business district, all 
less than 20 minutes from Wash
ington Square in Greenwich Vil
lage, where the program is cen
tered .
Further information can be ob
tained by writing to: Junior Year 
in New York Program, New York 
University, Room 906K Main 
Building, New York City, 10003.
must first meet Penn State to
night at home and Duquesne at 
the Pitt Field House at 1:30 
before the Pitt game.
Barnett Holds 
Exhibition
An exhibition of photographs 
by Herbert K. Barnett, public re
lations photographer for Carnegie 
Tech, will be held today through 
February 22, in the Porter Gar
nett Gallery, Administration Hall.
More than 40 photographs, in
cluding some'taken in Korea and 
Japan, will be shown. Gallery 
hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. week
days and from 9 a.m. until noon 
on Saturday. The exhibition is 
openVto the public.
- Mr. Barnett is president of Pho
tographers in Industry, Greater 
Pittsburgh, and regional repre
sentative for the University Pho
tographers Association. He has 
taught photography at the Arts 
and Crafts Center.
Graphic Arts 
Offers Courses 
This Summer
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogys Department of Graphic Arts 
will, for the first time, offer three 
six-week summer courses in 
graphic design beginning June 22.
The courses will be in typo
graphic design, photography, and 
processes of graphic reproduction 
and modern print-making. They 
are intended for people who are 
students, teachers, or professionalsin design and art. Students may 
enroll - in more than one of the 
courses and will have the oppor
tunity of using Techs extensive 
new facilities in typography, pho
tography and modern offset li
thography.
Experienced students may pur
sue advanced individual investi
gations with professional faculty 
guidance. Specific information 
about course content and pre
requisites can be obtained from 
the Department of Graphic Arts, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa., 15213.
Bureau of Placements Of fers 
Aid For Post-Graduate Work
(continued from page 6) 
evaluation because of the co-ordination of individual perform
ances of the students. Companies 
also rarely seek those with this 
type of training in the arts. 
Fashion Show
To give an idea of the scope of 
this organization, last spring 
under the supervision of the Bur
eau of Placements, a fashion show 
was given for senior women. The 
program was designed to acquaint 
graduating co-eds with the ap
propriateness of dress in the busi
ness world. Special guest for the 
day was Bernice Dodson, fashion 
director at Kaufmanns Depart
ment Store and past winner of 
Pittsburghs Best Dressed Award.
The facilities of the Bureau of 
Placements are comprised of the 
administrative offices, the clerical 
area, five interview rooms each 
with an intercom to the clerical 
area, a brochure distribution room 
maintained by the companies, a 
reception room, staff lounge, and 
a reference room maintained by 
the Bureau for the*storage of re
search books, company literature, 
career-orientation books, and vo
cational guidance books, along 
with current placement maga
zines. The Bureau also has use of 
six activity rooms in the activity 
section of Skibo until 4;30 each^4 
day. Regardless of the annual aca
demic schedule, the Bureau is 
open all year.
Those who have used the Bu* 
reau of Placements are aware of 
the facilities and the operations. 
Those who have not can learn a 
great deal both about a valuable 
school service offered by Carnegie 
Tech and about themselves with 
regard to vocation and job oppor. 
tunities. It must be understood * 
that the job market is constantly 
changing, and the best way to 
keep up with it is to follow the 
institution which concentrates on 
those changes  the Bureau of 
Placements: Charles Wangeman, 
Director (Evening and Summer 
Placement); J. Dennis Ryan, As
sistant Director (Engineering and 
Science, Industrial Management); 
Mary Lou Haugh, Assistant Director. (Fine Arts, Margaret Mor-# 
rison Carnegie College, Women's 
and Teacher Placement); and L.
G. Thomas, Jr., Alumni Placement 
Officer.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: MIKE HARRIS
Mike Harris (B.S.E., 1961) is an engineer who has demon
strated to New Jersey Bell that he can capably handle both 
. pure engineering and administrative jobs.
As an engineer in Trenton, Mike reviewed day-to-day 
problems which arose in building-space planning and cen
tral office equipment programming in the Red Bank district.
More recently, Mike was promoted to Traffic Manager, 
a supervisory job on which he is responsible for Toll Office,
Information Bureau and Dial Service Unit employees.
So, in less than two years with New Jersey Bell, Mike 
Harris has shown he can handle any challenge he meets  
engineering, supervisory or other.
Mike Harris, like many young engineers, is impatient 
to make things happen for his company and himself. There 
are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed 
or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
0TUU FTUTDr9hT O9nDYhLTm
n
