Carnival
hoto by Colin Rafferty

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2Spring Carnival 1985
Chris Bliss closed the show with a dazzling juggling displayNRBQ was a hot yet free ticket Friday night
As soon as you get a job jrou could 
get the American Express'* Card.
If youre a senior, all you need is 
to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job.
gs. No gimmicks. (Ai 
even if you dont nave a job right now,
Thats it. No strings. No gimmicks. (And
dont worry. This offer is still good up to 
12 months after you graduate.) Why is 
American Express making it easier for 
you to get the Card nght now?
Well, simply stated, we be
lieve m your future. And as you 
go up the ladder, we can help 
in a lot of ways.
XjUktiSinM/l AL-:
The Card can help you begin to 
establish your credit history And, for 
business, the Card is invaluable for 
travel and restaurants. As well as shop
ping for yourself
Of course, the American Express 
Card is recognized around the world. 
So you are too.
So call 1-800-528-4800 and ask to 
have a Special Student Applica
tion sent to you. Or look for one 
on campus.The American Express Card. Dont leave school without it.SM
Bliss7 juggling 
makes music 
come alive
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
To most people juggling tennis balls and 
contemporary music have little in common 
but as soon as you see Chris Bliss you would 
think they were made for each other. At clos
ing ceremonies of Spring Carnival Saturday. 
Chris Bliss performed his unbelievably 
talented act of mixing music with juggling 
and it was a true Concert For Your Eyes
Once Chris Bliss started his show everyone 
knew that we were going to be dazzled. He 
started out by juggling to the great blues 
playing of guitarist Eric Clapton. The music 
and the sights of .his juggling created an 
unusual effect we were watching the music 
come alive not just listening to it. He went
and did even more spectacular juggling and
music mixes the images he created in his 
finale with The Whos The Rock were 
fantastic.
What makes Chris Bliss so amazing is not 
his super human juggling tricks, but rather 
his artistic expression. An accurate descrip
tion of his interpretation of what music 
should look like would be creative genius
Instead of saying how difficult his jugg
ling is, you walk out saying how beautiful it 
looked, sounded, and most importantly^1 
Because Bliss makes his juggling look 
fortless and natural (much of it is imprvis 
ed), the lines of communication between 
performer and audience are far reaching
Talking with Bliss after the show, he stress 
ed the fact that what he does is on a mre 
direct level and so I can really comrnunic^ 
with the audience. He went on to say ^ 
key is communication  telling a storyall this comes from the music. Although t 
music as very important, the act was a 
show-stopper as a result of the sophistic 
lighting and sound system that Bliss hi 
designed. In fact, the images 
technological wizardry creates makes ^ 
performance into a string of true 
videos.
It is a shame that all the fun and ga1 hadthat accompanies Spring Carnival ^ 
end, but thanks to the creative high sp 
Slazenger slinging of Chris Bliss it en . 
a high note.

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival 1985Page 3
Tom the Mime, Jazz Choir 
brighten Friday evening
Delta Upsilon, Chi Omega Booth competition winners
By TERI BREIER
Tartan Staffwriter
In a very diversely entertaining 
doubleheader, pantomime Tom Willmorth 
and the CMU Jazz Choir performed backto-back Friday evening in the Tent.
Willmorth, affectionately known as Tom 
the Mime, has been astonishing CMU 
students with his talent since 1981. He per
forms regularly in the Morewood Gardens 
Cabaret, as well as other various campus 
functions.
In Fridays performance, Willmorth, a 
junior acting major, began with a challenge 
to the American Mime Federation: I am 
a talking mime, he confessed. I could be 
arrested at any minute. Willmorth, however, 
remained a free man and proceeded to 
amuse the packed house with both old 
favorites and new routines.
Some of his reprisals were the poetic 
Olympiad, the dramatic Icarus, and the 
ever-popular Death series, including 
Death by Nail File, Death by Dental Floss, 
and the world premiere of Death by Bub
ble Gum.
Willmorth adamantly declared that he 
would not honor requests for other mimes 
routines, such as something Marcel Marceau 
would do. Qualifying this statement, he 
agreed to do variations of such, and 
demonstrated with Biff Caught in a
Blender.
Other new routines include How to Use 
the Macintosh, and Actor in Ballet Class, 
which was dedicated to Judith Conte, a 
Drama department dance instructor. By far 
the highlight of the act, however, was a 
routine entitled The Tympanist. Set to 
rousing orchestral music, it tells the sordid 
truth behind what really goes on in the per
cussion section during a concert.
Following Tom, the CMU Jazz Choir per
formed, under the direction of Mark 
Burnell. Their repertoire consisted of several 
Manhattan Transfer songs, as well as selec
tions by Rare Silk and the Swingle Singers.
The choir, which consists of both music 
majors and non-majors, sounded confident 
and together on Transfer tunes Occapella, 
featuring soloists Pat Phillips and Patty 
McKay, Until I Met You, with Cathy Devor, 
Yugo Ikach, Anne Svedberg, and Phillips, 
and a medley, Twilight Tone/Spies in the 
Night, spotlighting Diana DiMarzio, 
McKay, Ikach, Gary Lindemann, and 
Burnell, along with a very effective syn
thesizer accompaniment.
Two songs Burnell arranged himself were 
Moon Dance and Puttin 42nd Street on 
the Ritz, the latter an interesting combina
tion of the two Broadway hits. Both these 
songs were skillfully performed. Moon 
Dance contained solos by Jamie Golden,
At the completion of their performance, the Jazz Choir was given a standing ovation.
Jennifer Neslund, Svedberg, Ikach, and 
Devor. Another piece, the popular All of 
Me, featured DiMarzio and scat soloists 
Devor, McKay, Ikach, Phillips and Golden.
Neither of the remaining two selections 
was up to par. Joy, a Rare Silk arrange
ment, was just plain messy. Ward Swingles 
A Lover and His Lass, the only a capella 
song in the program, sounded out of key, 
and was almost drowned out by the noisy 
generator on the midway.
All in all, however, the overall quality of 
the show more than made up for any faults.
The vocal talents of those already mention
ed, plus Scott Adler, Hannibal Klein, Gary 
Middleton, Joyce Teolis, and Steve Volan, 
make the CMU Jazz Choir one of the most 
entertaining performing groups on campus, 
and off. The choir has performed at the 
Beaux Arts Ball and the Oxford Center, 
among other places.
The group was backed by Burnell on 
keyboards, Rolando Morales (Jazzbusters) on 
drums, and Kurt Lorence (Most Dangerous 
Band in Pittsburgh) on bass.
judges, the Delta Delta Delta sorority booth 
was unique, as it involved hurling whipped 
cream pies at the sisters under the grinning 
face of the cartoon cat Garfield.
Rounding out the overall top three and 
placing second among the fraternities was 
Delta Tau Deltas multi-storied Dungeons 
and Dragons booth, finishing with 1025 
points, only 20 behind Chi Omega. DTDs 
booth, constructed largely out of papier 
mache, was by far the largest booth on the 
Midway this year. Finishing third and fourth 
in the fraternity category (and ninth and 
tenth overall) were Sigma Alpha Epsilons 
elaborate Pinnochio booth and Theta Xis 
replica of the Flintstone residence.
Three fraternities that had booths, Beta 
Theta Pi, Sigma Nu, and Alpha Tau 
Omega, were not rated by the judges. Also
not rated was the Zeta Beta Tau club, which 
assumed all of the responsibility for the 
information booth, and the efforts of the 
swimming team and the hockey and baseball 
clubs.
Highest ranked among the independents 
was the sophomore honor society, Lambda 
Sigma. The groups booth, which earned 929 
points, forced the participant to roll 
boulders over desert terrain in an effort to 
halt the RoadRunners speedy progress. Also 
in the top ten among the independents were 
SDC and CIA, ranked sixth and seventh 
respectively. The Computer Club, which 
garnered a respectable total of 643 votes, was 
a crowd favorite. Not only did they field a 
unique video game written by Marcel 
DePaolis which involved saving CMU from 
the invasion of Maclntosh-like machines.
uelta Upsilons Jungle Book was awarded 1101 out ot izuu possioie points.Chi Omegas Winnie the Pooh" won the sorority competition.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Delta Upsilons adaptation of The Jungle 
Book earned the fraternity the first place 
trophy in the 1985 Spring Carnival Booth 
competition, which featured a theme of 
Animation. The judges awarded DU a total 
of 1101 out of a possible 1200 points, out
distancing other competitors by over 50
treehouse brought Chi Omega the dual 
honor of first place in the Sorority category 
and second overall. The booth, one of the 
last to be completed, scored a 1045 in the 
competition. Other sororities that were rated 
highly were Delta Gamma, who fielded a 
Yogi Bear booth, and Kappa Alpha Theta, 
which successfully pulled off a somewhat dif
ficult combination of Snow White and

---------------------------------------------------

1In

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 6Spring Carnival 1985
Supplement photos by:
Bob Fishel, Erik Horn, Liz Johnson,
Heather McCarty, Evan McDonnell,
Olve Peersen, Colin Rafferty, and Edward Un,
CIA's women set a 
new record with a 
time of 2:45.
Sigma Nu's
the winner. From the lead car it was difficult 
to see whether either buggy was at fault, but 
it did appear that Hebert had taken a 
straight line on; the outside lane.
Colugo, thought to be the fastest buggy 
last year, never made it though the chute in 
two attempts in last years sweepstakes. This 
year , driver Colleen McNally had all year 
to get used to the buggy. McNally drove a 
flawless race on finals day after racing Col
ugo to a time of 2:09.05 on Friday, just five 
one-hundredths of a second off the course 
record of 2:09 flat, set by Pikas bullet in 
1983.
Colugos winning time was the slowest to 
win on finals day since 1981, when CIAs 
Black Magic finished in a time of 2:10.74.
There was much talk during the two days 
of races focused on the new timing methods 
for buggy races. For the first time this year, 
a video timing system was used to make tim
ing more accurate. The only drawback is 
that it takes too long to view the tape, so long 
that the times given for the mens heat were 
not official until Saturday. It was originally 
believed that Sigma Nu had raced to a new 
record of 2:08.93 in its preliminary heat on 
Friday, but Saturday the offical time was
Pilam's Miss
Budweiser is still 
the most colorful
buggy.
An oil spill delayed heats for almost two
hours Friday.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Sigma Nus Colugo defeated Beta Theta 
Pis Vixen to win the mens division of the 
1985 Sweepstakes competition in a time of 
2:10.09.
Pi Kappa Alphas Mach I, last years win
ner and one of the favorites this year was in
volved in a very controversial crash with 
Betas B-buggy, Nike, which resulted in 
Mach I spinning near the Panther Hollow 
Road intersection and hitting a tree. Driver 
Audrey Greenfield escaped without serious 
injury.
The crash resulted in protests by Green
field and Pika chairman Paul Loebig that 
Beta driver Paulette Hebert cut her off, and 
that Mach I deserved a re-roll. Head judge 
Nancy Burns told them just before the final 
race between Sigma Nu-A and Beta-A that 
no re-roll would be allowed.
But after Sigma Nu posted the winning 
time, Burns reversed her decision and 
awarded the re-roll. However, the course had 
already been opened to Pittsburgh traffic, 
and though the attempt was made to clear 
the course, it was deemed unsafe and the reroll was again denied, and Sigma Nu was

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival 1985Page 7
Dan Gercak (left) gave Echo a push off of hill two against Kappa
Sigma.
victor
reC[ at 2:09.05.|ave Bechtel, Sigma Nus hill one pusher, olugo to the exchange in an unofficial 
0f 14.8 seconds, an unbelievable time. n seconds is considered excellent. He 
aided by pushing against Betas Dave jen" Richards on finals day. Bechtel 
ly edged Richards, who also had an exjit time.the womens races, CIA-A set a new ,ns record with a time of 2:45. 
Kappa Alpha Theta would have finsecond, but were disqualified when hill 
pusher Gaitri Pathak lost her balance 
pushing off and stepped out of the lane 
as running in, and Fringes a buggy 
fit ran over her foot. Pathak stumbled 
e ground, and the Thetas were out.was awarded a re-roll, but finished 
,nd as CIAs time held up. the alumni heats, Pika rolled Bullet and finished one-two. They set a new nirecord of 2:16.27, which would have :d them seventh in the mens heats. 
t fist two-wheeled buggy, Delta UpHorned Screamer, made it through hute Friday and finished in an unoffical time of 2:24.22, putting them in fourteenth palce.The poor luck of Mach I proves how hard it is to repeat with any buggy. The last buggy to repeat was Betas Echo in 1978 and 1979. With new buggies every year, it is harder and harder to keep a buggy in shape to win for more than one year. Many new buggies this year were rolled as B-buggies hoping to make further modifications for next year, as was done last year with Colugo. Sigma Nus Yama Bachi, Pikas Breathless, and Betas Nike are a few of the buggies to be watched next year Breathless and Nike made the final six this year, while Yama Banchi finished seventh. Breathless won their final race against CIAs Black Magic, but was disqualified when it failed its brake test. CIA finished in a very disappointing 2:20.14, which would have placed them twelfth on Friday. Black Magic rolled the course in 2:15.06 in its preliminary heat.Theta Xis Little Nip, Pikas C-buggy Godzilla and Fringes Benefit rounded out the top ten. Phi Kaps Gumby was the only other bueery to finish in under 2:20, with a time of 2:19.96.The Horned Screamer takes a low turn 
to get through the chute.
lelow, Fringe's 
iuggy comes 
round the chute 
id up hill three, 
[here Cynthia 
lassagli picks it up
(right).

---------------------------------------------------

Jim Slater (left) helped push Beta's Nike to a third place finish.
WOMEN S HEATS
CIA-ABlack Magic2:45.33
TX ALittle Nip2:48.92
FRINGE-ABenefit2:51.48
CIA BSpectre2:56.16
PILAM AFalcon3:06.61
SN-ALemur3:08.41
KS AMinuteman3:10.30
SDC BBlue Haze3:11.47
SDC-AOpus3:20.26
FRINGE BFlying Buttress3:21.03
CIA CInterceptor3:21.64
KS BATF3:31.78
PIKA-AGodzillaDQ
BETA AEchoB.T.
DU AHomed ScreamerF.O.
MENS FINALS 
OFFICIAL TIMES
SN-AColugo2:10.09
BETA AV ixen2:13.27
BETA BNike2:15.93
CIA ABlack Magic2:20.14
PIKA AMach Icrashed
PIKA BBreathlessB.T.
Page 8Spring Carnival 15
GROUP
SN-APIKA-A
PIKA-B
BETA-A
BETA B
CIA-A
SN-B*
TX-A
PIKA-C
FRINGE-A
PKT-B**
TX-C
PIKA-D
DU-A
BETA-C
CIA-B
PiLAM-A
SAE-B***
TX-B
DTD A
CIA-C
PKT-A
CIA D
KS-D
SDC-B
TX-D
KS-B
KS-A
PiLAM-C
SPIRIT-A
SAE-C
SAE-A
SDC-A
SN-D
PiLAM-B
FRINGE B
MENS HEATS 
BUGGY
Colugo 
Mach I 
Breathless 
Vixen 
Nike
Black Magic 
Yama Bachi 
Little Nip 
Godzilla 
Benefit 
Gum by 
Rapier 
Bullet
Horned Screamer 
Echo
Interceptor 
Falcon 
Hustler 
Sabre 
Crisis 
Spectre
King Kong Bundy 
Dark Star 
Mirage 
Blue Haze 
Vapor 
ATF
Minuteman 
Miss Budweiser 
Pegasus 
Limo 
Intrepid 
Opus 
Lemur 
Legend
Flying Buttress
*  All times following asterisk are the 
unofficial times determined by the judges 
before viewing video tape. **  Gumby is
PhiKaps A-buggy that ran in its B slot.
***  Hustler is SAEs A-buggy that ran in 
its B slot, ftOpu$ was awarded a re-roll, 
but The Tartan does not have that time.
B.T. failed the braketest. F.O. fell over. 
DQ-disqulaified. N.A.not available.
Pika's push bar technology worked well 
here, but backfired in the finals.
In this women's race, the Screamer made it through the chute, 
but toppled on hill three.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

BUS POEM 
t 1 s
design: nancy baird
CLOTHES FOR HEROES
lynne schtz
design: nancy smith
DIE HEIMAT 
erri 1 swartz
design: bonnie siegler
LAOTIAN SUPERVISOR, FACTORY FLOOR 
judith merrill
design: eve waldron
Dossier welcomes submissions from 
any students enrolled at CarnegieMellon University. All manuscripts 
must be typed. Please include your 
name, address and telephone number 
on a separate cover sheet only. Due 
to plagiarism laws, anonymous sub
missions and submissions under 
pseudonyms cannot be accepted.
All submissions are reviewed by at 
least three staff members, including 
the editor, to ensure a balanced 
review of the work.
All unpublished submissions will be 
returned by the end of each semester. 
Acceptance notices will be sent no 
later than one week before publi
cation.
V OLUME'6 NUMBER 3 
April 23, 1985
senior issue
Editor: Michele Keane
Contributing Editors: Judith Merrill, Terri Swartz
Literary Staff: Christy Casamassima, Pam Horn
Design Editors: Christopher Johnson, Jennifer Taigman
Contributing Design Editors: Jeffrey D. Pacione
Joshua Mutchnick
Production Assistant: Peter Bain

---------------------------------------------------

RON ROPPO
ONE SHADOW EACH SIDE }
Quickly,
I turned to follow.
I ran so fast, but the shadows disappeared 
Behind a comer store 
Before I could get there.
Then a flash of two headlights.
Parting across an open field.
Lights growing dimmer;
Till they faded away.
Leaving scarcely a footprint 
And one shadow on each side.
A drizzle sprinkled down to form a mist 
On my head.
Still largely unaware 
As two dark shadows raced 
From under a porch awning.
Turned back around,
And the distance held
The one I left behind
Being dragged awayone shadow on each side.
Moonlit night.
Left her with the cat 
To walk out on the street.

---------------------------------------------------

2
THE SEDUCTION OF PROFESSOR P.
His collegiate days spent sweaty and sore,
Knee deep in a mudded field,
Stadium eyes upon him.
And in the classrooms, girls with billowyflowered dresses passed by discreetly, 
brushing bare arms against letterman sleeves.
Yet, Harvard, the gridiron and rosy-cheeked girls
faded quickly. Seduced by words of wit from Emerson
and Whitman, he settled into marriage and a teaching career.
Now, having failed the former, he wallows in knowledge 
tainted with feeling, much like a cow wades 
through the murk at the mouth of a riverbed.
And small comfort is found in college coeds arms, 
as daily, he is reminded of mortal progression 
by the stray hairs on his pillowcase 
of white cotton percale.

---------------------------------------------------

-i' V . 'v. .V.
,:> i ,
: i.-:
V.-'-  :   :;vmA
,iP; Min
<:x': :" .  .:Vi*,:a f  : V -.. V
He drives through a steel 
town where the men shuffle 
in and out of bars 
in shifts (lunch crowd, 
dinner crowd) 
now that all the mills 
are closed. Jerome 
loves Ophelia forever 
in red above the back 
seat. I am sitting 
in the back seat 
because it makes 
them think Im tougher 
than most white 
college girls. My collar 
is turned up, too.
As the bus nears my stop 
I walk to the front, hands 
in pockets, without holding 
on. If the bus lurches,
I compensate, control, 
but I dont hold on.

---------------------------------------------------

?THEY COME INTO MY APARTMENT AND HE IS DRUNK, A 
BEER IN HIS HAND. SHE DARTS INTO THE BEDROOM AND 
OPENS MY BOTTLE OF CHANEL NO. 19. SHE MURMURS, 
MMMMM, DABS PERFUME INTO THE V OF HER ORANGE 
SWEATER, MOTIONS HIM INTO THE ROOM. SHE WAVES THE 
SCENT UNDER HIS NOSTRILS.
SO, HE SAYS, IT REMINDS ME OF HER. HIS HAND MAKES A 
MOTION TOWARDS ME. SOME OF THE BEER SLOPS ON HIS 
TROUSERS.
I WAS IN LOVE WITH HIM ONCE. BUT WE ARE ALL 
CHAMELEONS.
I WATCH AS HE SETS THE BEER UNCERTAINLY ONTO MY 
OAK DRESSER. I MOVE TO TAKE IT AWAY BEFORE THE 
BEADS OF SWEAT ON THE CAN SLIDE TO THE WOOD AND 
LEAVE MARKS. HE CATCHES MY WRIST AS I REACH FOR IT, 
SAYING, WANT SOME?
NO, I SAY, IT REMINDS ME OF YOU.
THE ASSUMPTIONS. HE MUST MARRY A WOMAN WHO LOVES 
THE COLOR PINK. THAT IS THE EASY PART OF PICKING HER 
OUT. A LIGHT, AIRY, DELICATE PINK, ONE THAT SHE CAN 
STAND AGAINST AND BE EVEN MORE DELICATE, EVEN 
MORE PINK. OF COURSE, THIS PINK IS A DECEPTION. IT IS 
ONLY THE COLOR SHE NEEDS TO BE HOUSED IN; SHE DOES 
NOT HAVE TO BE THE COLOR.
THEY ARE HERE TO BORROW A BOOK. A BOOK OF LOVE 
POEMS. BETWEEN HER AND ME, THERE HAD BEEN CERTAIN 
PROMISES. I INTRODUCED HIM TO HER. I HAVE NO PLANS 
TO INTROCUCE HER TO THE MAN I AM SEEING NOW.
HXMWzo
LETS GO TO THIS PARTY, SHE SAYS, A COMMAND FROM NO 
WHERE.
WHERE, KASIA? HE ASKS, AND I THINK OF HER NAME, 
WHICH IS THE ONLY THING I HAVE EVER REALLY LIKED 
ABOUT HER. IT IS EXOTIC AND RUSSIAN AND MOVES 
THROUGH MY THROAT WITH POINTS AND SIGHS. IF I 
COULD LIKE HER, I WOULD NAME A CHILD WITH HER 
NAME.
IM NOT DRESSED, I SAY.
WELL WAIT, HE SAYS.
MY BOYFRIEND IS COMING OVER LATER, I SAY.
SO CALL HIM UP AND TELL HIM TO MEET US, KASIA SAYS. 
COME ON, KARA.
AND HERE I AM REMINDED OF HOW OUR NAMES FIT 
TOGETHER LIKE GLOVE AND HAND, OF HOW WE USED TO 
GO TO BARS TOGETHER AND FLIRT WITH MEN. WE WERE 
REPTILES IN A ROOM FULL OF MAMMALS, OUR MOTIONS 
DELIBERATE, COLD-BLOODED, CALCULATED.
s
55
b2wXt/)
XH
bs
zwXH
Ch?Jhu<Xui
XHH<XHw01 <  < 

2 
w X H
OH
a>>*<
Pi WX
H w ?J
s 
HO2C/3<oH w w04 O <
O H w5H w O0 H01 w >
 h w wS w < u w X t/1
QzwMOiu.>-O(AUzwXH
Os
XwH2
soHQOXHwS
(0 < H PS 
0 tf Ha Z
PS
u
i Id 
g l0 1 t I
- SIS id H - *S: 
i i

---------------------------------------------------

IT MUST BE HIM. OR ALL THE ONES LIKE HIM. HE MUST BE 
WHY I DO THESE STUPID THINGS ALTHOUGH I AM SUPPOS
ED TO BE IN LOVE WITH SOMEONE ELSE. I GO FROM MAN 
TO MAN TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT EACH ONE WANTS, 
TRYING TO BE WHAT HE WANTS, AND USUALLY WHEN I 
FIGURE IT OUT, THE MAN FINDS SOMEONE NEW. LIKE 
KASIA. OR I FIND KASIA. I DONT KNOW WHICH.
BUT HERE THEY ARE, IN MY BACK SEAT, AND HE IS TOO 
DRUNK TO DO ANYTHING ABOUT HER COME-ON. THE BEER 
CAN IS STILL IN HIS HAND.
HEY, I SAY SUDDENLY, HEY, DONT SPILL ANY OF THAT SHIT 
ON THE UPHOLSTERY. HE ROLLS DOWN THE WINDOW AND 
PITCHES THE CAN INTO THE STREET.
I SEE HIM GRIN IN THE REAR-VIEW MIRROR. OKAY, HE 
SMILES. OKAY, BABY.
YOU ARE SUCH AN ASSHOLE, I TELL HIM.
KASIA REACHES THROUGH THE TWO FRONT SEATS AND 
POKES ME IN THE RIBS. THATS NOT NICE, SHE SAYS. WE RE 
YOUR FRIENDS.
THIS IS PART OF HER GAME. BE NICE TO THE ONE SHE HAS 
DESIGNATED IN CONTROL. IM IT.
o73**1Xe0C/1C70M
>O*vC/i
73
3w
_XC/i
3c/im>>C/iC/3
s
*C/isMC/1>
>70>>
HWzor*0rC/1?4z
S*
MXw
0?M?-470zM
H3XMM>>HX
?<JO0MC/i0
M2
SHE SAYS, IF YOU WANT TO STAY HERE AND SLEEP, I DONT ONIXIVM. SI VISVM dMV WOOV OMIAIT 3H1 CXLNI MTTVA1 I

---------------------------------------------------

DieHeimat
"Of course, some personal belongingsthose specified in the will have already been 
removed," the lawyer was saying. He had opened the front door and ushered me inside 
the kitchen. Almost nothing had changed. Grandpa's clutter in the pantry, the collection 
of odd plastic containers, a stack of newspapers bundled for recycling. Things were clean 
enough, but untidy, just as I always remembered the place.
"I think everything is in order," he said, "You have my card?"
"Yes, and thank you for everything, Mr. Ochester. I think that's all I'll need." I shook 
his hand, took the house key from him, and stood in the doorway to watch his car wind 
down the drive. The house was almost six acres back from the main road, and the drive 
was little more thart a long stretch of dust. Sometimes in the winter you had to park 
along the roadside and walk back. But Grandpa would never move, never give up "his 
own place." He had bought it during the Depression, half the land of a friend who 
couldn't afford to keep it all. By the time I was born he owned the whole thing. "246 
acres: 130 forested, 50 cultivated, and the rest to mow," he told me when I was five, "a 
lot to do when you get a little bigger."
Grandpa had stood in the middle of the meadow, turning around watching me and 
calling "Remember, the clutch is on the left, the brake is on the right." Ten years old and 
riding the tractor alone for the first time, I had to sit on the edge of the seat to reach the 
pedals.
"Am I doing O.K.?"
"You're doing fine," he called and sat down in the grass to watch. I could barely hear 
him over the noise of the motor and the blades. "Just keep in second gear for now. And 
don't bother with the hillside; it's too steep. I'll take care of it later."
I mowed that hillside when I was twelve. He had pretended anger but smiied to 
himself at my defiance. It went like that until I was eighteen: he made his warning then 
went to his own work; I mowed the hillside while he was gone. Each time he was sur
prised, not so much that I had mown that steepness again, but that I had grown up so 
fast.
 i i i
I closed the door and looked around the kitchen again. There were still dishes in the 
sink that no one had bothered to wash. I brewed some coffee and cleaned up the dishes, 
then took a cup of coffee into the livingroom. The house was so quiet, so empty. It was 
my house. The deed lay on the table where the lawyer had left itand on it my name. I 
took everything out of my pocketsthe house keys, my wallet, a letter, and some loose 
changeand put it on the table beside the deed. I stared at my signature and thought 
how he always said someday his place would be mine. Mine.
Beside the table was a brown leather recliner. I sat down and pushed my head back 
so that the bottom of the chair raised. The day had been long, and I was tired, so I clos
ed my eyes and waited to fall asleep. After a while, still awake, I pushed the bottom of 
the chair back down, sat forward, and put my chin in my hands.
The letter on the table had been part of the stack of mail that had come while I was 
away. It was from "Die Freie Universitt Berlins" where I had just interviewed for a 
teaching fellowship.

---------------------------------------------------

Five of us had been chosen to interview from the 200 who had applied. The others 
were all from ivy-league schools. I was sure I didn't have a chance. I had expected the 
letter to be informing me of my elimination from the competition. It was not. I unfolded 
the letter and read it again:
We are pleased to be able to offer you this fellowship for a period of two years. Upon 
University review, you may be invited Jo stay on an additional two years as a special 
faculty member. A booklet fully describing the responsibilities and restrictions of this posi
tion is forthcoming under separate cover.
They were pleased to offer ME the fellowship. I put the letter down and stared at it. 
"You may be invited to stay on an additional two years as a special faculty member." I 
stood up and stretched.
The coffee had gotten cold. I ignored it and looked around the room. Folding the 
afghan that lay in a heap on the sofa, I noticed that the photograph of Grandpa as a boy 
was not on the wall. The lawyer had told me it had been left to my brother. I turned on 
the television and stared at a game show. A woman was jumping up and down, scream
ing, and hugging the host. He was enjoying it. The game show was over: host grinning, 
contestant happy. A dog food commercial.
I
I thought about calling my brother, but changed the channel instead, and then took 
the coffee to the kitchen and dumped it. To waste some time I surveyed the refrigerator 
and made a sandwich. Grandpa usually had some Coke around for me. I found it in the 
pantry and drank one. Warm. It was the time of day when networks dnly run soap 
operas and game showshousewife prime time. The soap opera story lines confused me 
and the game shows all seemed to have the same contestants, hosts, and prizes: a 
Cadillac or a Hamilton Beach blender as consolation. Or sometimes a vacuum cleaner or a 
year's supply of Turtle Wax. In any case, neither a prize nor consolation.
My brother had been waiting for me at the airport last week when I got home. He had 
touched my arm and said, "I tried to reach you, but you couldn't be found."
I just looked at him.
"It was three weeks ago," he said. "We didn't know where you were," then silence.
I looked down at the suitcase in my hand, then at the flight schedule on the screen 
above us. "How?" I asked.
"A stroke. I went out on Sunday to take him to church and he didn't answer the door. 
I let myself in and found him in the bathroom." He paused, staring at his shoes. "The 
paramedics took him to the hospital. A couple of times he woke up, but he couldn't 
move. He would look at me and work his mouth, trying to say your name." My little 
brother's eyes glistened, and he pressed a palm across his cheek.
"Frankie," I said. He looked up from his shoes, and I hugged him.
Th living room was paneled with knotty pine, highly varnished and glossy. Every 
spring we scrubbed it down with Murphy's Oil Soap. I paced a little around the room 
while I finished the sandwich and tried to think of something else. Europe. *i"he faces of 
the people in East Berlin, and the reality of the Wall. At the university there I could never 
be alone. So many professors wanting to tell about the East and hear about the West, a 
kind of tortured excitement in their eyes. They followed me, begging for my attention 
with offers to share lunch, dinner, teaanything. They craved stories of the West and 
were desperate to hear them, as if the very thought of that freedom pulsing on the other 
side of the Wall kept them alive.
Through the University I had gotten a 90-day visa to travel in East Germany. After my 
interview I had toured the GDR collecting notes for a sort of comparison paper I was 
working on.
I was also looking for my family. Grandpa had told me his father came from a little 
town in Silesia, a place called Schlossberg. There were pictures of the old man in an 
album that Grandpa used to show me. He would tell the story of how his grandfather 
had been a count who had had his land and money taken away by a Catholic prince 
because he was a Lutheran. There was no inheritance for my Grandpa's father, so he 
brought his wife to America. Grandpa loved to tell how he was born on the ship in the 
middle of the Atlantic and how he couldn't figure what nationality that made him.
All the albums were in a desk in the back bedroom. When I was a boy, it had been 
my room during summer visits. Now the desk and a chair were the only furniture in the 
room. The albums were stacked in a deep drawer. I took the one I knew to be the oldest 
and looked through it. The pictures were of people I'd never met, but recognized from all 
the times I'd looked at them with Grandpa. He had been a funny-looking boy with ears 
that stuck out He used to tug on mine and call them the "family ears." His father had 
had them, too.
In the back of the album he had saved the invitation to my college graduation. During 
the ceremony he had wept. He shook my hand and kept it a while, kept it in that stillfirm grip, and looked me over at arms length.
"Still the same ears, boy," he said, cocking his head. "Some things you can never get 
away from, no matter how far you go." He smiled uncomfortably, as if it hurt.
When I was seven and following him around the garden, he had taught me to plant 
marigolds between the beans. "The rabbits hate the smell of marigolds," he had said. 
"They won't come near your beans." Beside that simple farmer now I felt both proud 
and foolish. I stood, in my cap and gown, just graduated, and he talked of my ears.
I
TerriiiSwartzi

---------------------------------------------------

During the drive home we had talked very little. We had coffee in his kitchen, and 
while I rinsed the cups he went into his bedroom to look for something. From behind me 
he spoke. "You are a good man; I'm proud of you," he said, and held out a gold watch 
as I turned around. It was his father's. "Take it. A graduation present."
"But it's your father's."
"I have no use for it," he said. "I know what time it is."
In the next album were wedding pictures and shots of my mother as a baby. She 
looked like her motherno Ottenberg ears. There were pictures of my grandmother 
whom I didn't remember. She had died of tuberculosis when I was three. Grandpa never 
looked at these pictures with me.
My uncle had two thick albums that didn't interest me much. Instead I took out the 
album with pictures of me and my brother; a lot of them had been taken right here on 
the farm. There was one of Grandpa helping me hold up the first fish I ever caught in the 
lake down behind the barn. We were standing between the lake and the willow, and I 
was grinning from ear to family ear while Grandpa stood behind me trying not to steal 
my glory.
About three years ago Grandpa had remodeled the place and cut a big window in the 
back wall of my room. He used to call the room my study and said he made the window 
so that I could look out over my place while I wrote. I put the album down and walked 
to the window. You could see beyond the sagging snow fence at the far end of the farm 
to the foothills of the mountains. By late September most of the trees were already in 
beautiful color. The barn needed to be painted again. And I'd have to mow the hay in the 
upper meadow before the first snowfall.
I leaned my forehead against the cold window pane and whispered "Dammit." I was 
crying.
One day last week, my brother and I had gone to The Mosey Inn, a local bar, to 
celebrate my getting the fellowship. It was in his neighborhood, and he was a regular
there.
"What'll it be, Frank?" the bartender had asked.
"We'll have a couple of beers."
We took two seats at the bar, and Frank introduced me to the bartender, then asked 
me about my trip and the University.
"Everything is so different," I had told him. "The atmosphere, the people, everything.
It's like they're always looking behind them to see if there's someone following them.
And always looking West. They tune into Western radio at night, even though the 
government tries to jam the signals. But during the day, everyone pretends to be such a 
devoted comrade. In Berlin, the state has tried so hard to make it beautiful, but in the 
rest of the country people live so badly. Everything is slanted by the government's view, 
but underneath the people aren't changed."
"You'll have to teach their way, too," Frankie had said, "do you really want to do it?"
I tried to explain that history is always skewed to someone's point of view, but that 
wasn't what mattered. It was the people and their secret humanity. Their private reality. It 
was the way they dealt with the difference between what they wanted and what they 
had. I couldn't explain it to him because he'd never been there, never felt it. The 
bartender came over and started to talk about baseball.
"Who do you like in the series?" he asked.
I didn't really listen to Frank's answer. A few times he had wrapped his arm around 
my shoulder or slapped me on the back and told the bartender "Let's have another one 
for my big brother."
After a while he looked at me over his fourth beer and asked "What about the farm?" 
"I don't know," I said, and ran my finger around the edge of the beer mug. "I was
thinking maybe you'd like to take care of it for me."
"Jan and I talked about this already," he said. Jan was his wife. "She really doesn't 
want to pick up and move out to the country. Not that I'd mind, but she doesn't want to
do it."
"I can understand that," I said.
"You could maybe lease it to someone else," he said, "so you wouldn't have to sell 
it." *
"I guess so," I said. I had never thought about having to sell it. We ordered two more
beers.
It was the end of October before I went to the cemetery. For a while I just sat in the 
car, the sun through the windshield warm on my leg. Warm and silent and touching me. 
Then I got out and walked toward the grave:
"Grandpa," I said, as if waking a late sleeper. "Grandpa," again, but there were no 
other words. "I mowed the upper meadow." The stone, plain, only FATHER, his name 
and dates. It was beside another stone MOTHER in a plot that had overlooked a green 
valley when they bought it. Now, below was a village with houses clustered into 
neighborhoods, a factory at the rivers edge, and a highway that sprang from between 
two hills and dissolved into the horizon.

---------------------------------------------------

Judy Merrill
In tight jeans and a Nike t-shirt
she's no Geisha girl. I would have sworn
she was born in a trailer park and raised on hot dogs
except she laughs with all her teethas no Yankee can 
and she chops off English at odd corners.
At supper, she says she wants to be a lady. 
She wants an engagement like the movies 
where men shower women with diamonds 
over dinner. Girlfriends tell her 
ladies do not swear on the shop floor, 
nor gossip about their sex lives 
between machine punches. She squirms, 
munches French fries, puzzled. All 
she wants is to make friends.
Over early morning beer, she says she arrived at nineteen 
knowing nothing. She taught herself English, 
shattered quotas for her promotion. Other Laotians 
accuse her of forgetting the past.
The long scar on her neck, never covered 
with diamonds, is a reminder of Asian days.

---------------------------------------------------


