SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Greek Sing exceeds philanthropy goal   B8
SCITECH
HERB: a robot that can separate Oreos  A4Upsets abound in March Madness  A10
thetartan.org
@thetartan
March 25, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 21
Elections preview: candidates prepare for ?rst debate
BRENT HEARD
NOL UM 
News Co-Editors
With student government 
elections less than a week 
away, students can look forward to hearing candidates for 
Student Senate outline their 
platforms during debates, 
which will be held today and 
tomorrow.
Debates for the positions of 
student body president (SBP) 
and vice president (SBVP) 
will be held on Monday from 
67:20 p.m. in McConomy Auditorium, and debates for student body vice president for 
?nance (SBVPF) and student 
body vice president for organizations (SBVPO) will be held 
on Tuesday 6:309:30 p.m. in 
Rangos 3.
Polls will open online 
March 28 at noon and will 
close April 2 at 6 p.m.
Two tickets are running for 
student body president and 
vice president. Junior biology 
major Lindsay MacGillivray 
and sophomore social and decision sciences and philosophy 
double major Peter Masters 
are running together; junior 
mechanical engineering and 
engineering and public policy 
double major Thomas Healy 
and junior business major 
Caitlin Jones run on the other 
ticket.
Neither pair has submitted an of?cial platform to the 
student government elections 
website.
The candidates for SBVPF 
are sophomore statistics major 
Jalen Poteat and sophomore 
psychology major Joshua 
Swanson.
While Poteat has not submitted a formal platform to 
the of?cial elections website, 
Swanson stated, One of my 
?rst priorities would be to immediately ?nd out how students feel about the various 
activities offered on campus. I 
want to know what you want 
to see more or less of, how you 
think your money should be 
allocated, and what groups 
think about the process involved with applying for, receiving, and using funding.
He went on to state that 
he hopes to improve communication between the Joint 
Funding Committee (JFC) 
and organizations during the 
activities budget approval process.
The candidates for SBVPO 
are sophomore business major Susanna Park, sophomore 
economics major Radowan 
Khan, and junior psychology 
and decision science double 
major Corinne Rockoff. None 
of these candidates has submitted a formal platform.
The VPF debate will begin 
Forum highlights personal wellness
LAUREN WILLIAMS
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University in currently in the midst 
of a search process for a new 
vice president and chief ?nancial of?cer.
The position of vice president and chief ?nancial of?cer 
(CFO)  a singular position 
 organizes the central ?nancial services of the university, 
including the budget, payroll, 
accounts receivable and payable, the treasurers of?ce, internal audits, and sponsored 
projects.
According to current Vice 
President of Campus Affairs 
and search committee chair 
Michael Murphy, One very 
important facet of the role beyond his or her immediate organization  is collaborative 
involvement and leadership in 
the whole of the administration. President Jared Cohon 
and Executive Vice President 
and Provost Mark Kamlet have 
nurtured this kind of teamwork exceptionally, in the best 
Carnegie Mellon tradition. 
Mark Kamlet is the current interim CFO.
Speci?c duties of the CFO 
position include issues such 
as proposing tuition and fees, 
negotiating research overhead rates, developing budget 
plans, advising on property 
acquisition, and monitoring 
the effectiveness of international initiatives.
It is a critical role, if perhaps somewhat less visible to 
students than some, Murphy 
continued.
Although many students 
are unfamiliar with the responsibilities of the CFO, his 
or her actions play a vital role 
in the universitys day-to-day 
activity. When approached, 
most students were eager to 
learn more about the role 
of the CFO and to give their 
opinion regarding the position.
First-year logic and computation major Deanna Daly 
said, I hope that the new 
vice president is one who really considers the position of 
individuals, and not just the 
institution as a whole. Even 
though we are getting a great 
education, being a student 
here is ?nancially straining on 
our families, and I think that 
really has an impact on student lifestyle. This is de?nitely 
something that Im hoping to 
see improved.
CMU, NSA search for student hackers
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
In response to Januarys 
Town Hall on Carnegie Mellon culture, the student 
government  in conjunction with the department of 
student affairs  devised a 
strategy to combat the issues 
discussed. An event organized by Students for a Deliberative Democracy (S4DD) 
was held in the University 
Centers Rangos Hall last 
Tuesday.
The purpose of the event, 
according to S4DDs program 
manager and Ph.D. candidate in rhetoric Tim Dawson, 
was to bring together multiple voices, multiple perspectives and to facilitate conversation on campus stress 
culture.
Meela Dudley, student 
body vice president and creative and professional writing double major, said that 
Januarys Town Hall opened 
the ?ood gates of conversation. After the Town Hall, 
Dudley said that student government needed a stricter 
way to collect that data, but 
we still wanted to have a 
face-to-face conversation, 
rather than a survey.
The event was based on a 
structure developed by S4DD 
meant to bring more inclusive conversation to campus, 
according to Justin Mando, a 
Ph.D. candidate in rhetoric 
and an of?cer in S4DD.
Around 80 people attended the event, Mando said.
We asked anyone who 
would be interested in attending to ?ll out a survey 
form that asked why they 
want to attend, rate how big 
an issue it is, say what they 
think of the issues at play. 
We had a really big response 
from this, but it was also a 
manageable response, so we 
randomly selected constituents to try and get the most 
diverse response, Dudley 
said.
S4DD, Dawson said, 
helped develop surveys, 
helped develop background 
materials, helped them 
structure the event; we 
helped train moderators and 
note -takers.
At the roundtable event, 
small discussion groups of 
seven or eight people were 
hosted at each table, assisted 
by a moderator and recorded 
by a note-taker. Afterward, 
there was a resource panel 
and a Q&A session. These 
Hunt for next CMU VP/CFO continues
See HACKING, A3
See CULTURE, A3
See SEARCH, A3
See ELECTIONS, A3
Photo courtesy of Tim Dawson
The Center of Deliberative Democracy held an additional forum on 
Carnegie Mellons stress culture. 
ALVIN MATHEW 
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon 
teamed up with the 
National Security 
Agency (NSA) to create a high school 
hacking competition 
known as Toaster 
Wars, which takes 
place April 26 to May 6. 
Sponsored by the 
NSA and supported by 
Carnegie Mellons own 
hacking group, the Plaid 
Parliament of Pwning (PPP), 
Toaster Wars has been developed into a high-pro?le hacking competition. 
It came into being through 
a large amount of effort put 
forth by PPP and the Entertainment Technology Center 
(ETC).
Formed in 2009, the PPP 
is self-described as a security 
interest group. According to 
Tyler Nighswander, senior 
computer science and physics double major and also one 
of the 
PPPs 
leaders, the 
group often 
creates and competes in Capture the Flag hacking exercises.
We create security puzzle 
type things for exploitation, 
hacking, et cetera, Nightswander explained. Then 
we go in, 
break into stuff, 
and hack into 
things.
The PPPs  
adviser and an assistant electrical and 
computer engineering professor David Brumley 
notes the PPPs success. PPP 
is actually ranked in the world 
for security research groups, 
even [among] professional 
teams. It has competed in 
various contests, and its next 
competition is to be held in 
South Korea. A lot 
of people would be 
interested in computer security from 
this opportunity, 
Brumley said.
As a part of the 
Toaster Wars competition, high 
school hackers 
will be given a 
scenario 
in which 
they are 
told to 
use their 
hacking 
skills 
to repair a robot from 
space and to 
?gure out some of his 
secrets.
According to the competitions of?cial website, The 
competition is a series of 
challenges centered around a 
unique story line where participants must reverse engineer, 
Photos courtesy of the respective candidates 
From left to right, Thomas Healy with Caitlin Jones and Peter Masters with Lindsay MacGillivray, for student body president and vice president. 
Annette Ko/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  March 25, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFNagoski presents in?uential music
WEATHER
Underage Drinking
March 15, 2013
An intoxicated student 
was observed walking in the 
Greek Quad and Morewood 
Avenue area. University Police 
stopped the male and ensured 
that he would not need medical attention. The male was 
left with a friend and was cited for underage drinking.
Vandalism
March 16, 2013
University Police observed 
broken keypads on the vending machines located in the 
Stever House lobby. The police questioned several individuals concerning how the 
machines became vandalized. 
This investigation is ongoing.
De?ant Trespass Charge
March 16, 2013
University Police were contacted in reference to a male 
who was near Carnegie Mellon housing on Morewood 
Ave. The male was previously 
issued a de?ant trespass notice on a prior date. The male 
was escorted to the police 
station, where he was later 
released after being issued 
another citation for de?ant 
trespassing.
Suspicious Male
March 17, 2013
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol observed a black 
male talking to a mailbox located on Forbes Avenue, outside of the University Center 
driveway. The police  of?cer 
approached the male and 
identi?ed the male as being 
homeless and intoxicated. The 
male agreed that he was capable of walking, at which time 
the male was asked to continue down Forbes Avenue. 
The male was advised to stay 
away from Carnegie Mellon 
property.
Theft
March 18, 2013
University Police was summoned to take a report concerning cash stolen from a 
business kiosk located on the 
second ?oor of the University Center. The complainant 
reported that approximately 
$165.00 was stolen from the 
cash register drawer. Employees believe that the money 
was taken between March 8, 
2013 and March 18, 2013. 
This investigation is ongoing.
Fire (Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall)
March 18, 2013
University Police, along 
with the Pittsburgh Fire Department, responded to the 
C-Level of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall in reference to a 
dust collector catching ?re. A 
student was able to extinguish 
the ?re prior to the of?cers arrival. No one was injured during this ?re and only the dust 
collector was damaged. 
Vehicle Accident 
March 19, 2013
A student riding her bicycle was struck by a vehicle 
moving  on Fifth Avenue near 
Amberson Street. The driver 
of the vehicle did not stop. 
The victim was transported to 
the hospital and examined for 
minor injuries.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Independent record producer, musician, and ethnomusicologist Ian Nagoski presented the story of people in?uenced by the music of those who had 
suffered displacement, tragedy, and other uncontrollable events. The presentation of international 78 rpm recordings focused on these life stories. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Mark Kryder, professor of 
electrical and computer engineering, and Philip R. LeDuc, 
professor of mechanical engineering, attended the Grand 
Challenges Summit at Savoy 
Place in London from March 
1213. 
At the Grand Challenges 
Summit, global thought leaders, including Bill Gates, discussed ideas for solving some 
of the worlds most signi?-
cant problems. 
Kryder, former director 
of Carnegie Mellons Data 
Storage System Center, said 
that the summit allowed him 
to focus on the ideas of data 
storage in a global context. 
In addition to hearing 
from some great speakers, 
there were many panel sessions dealing with global 
challenges and much discussion after each panel. It was 
a stimulating experience, he 
said.
The Grand Challenges 
Summit is a new event, sponsored by the National Academy of Engineering, the Royal 
Academy of Engineering, and 
the Chinese Academy of Engineering.  
The purpose of the summit is to put world-renowned 
thinkers into discussions 
about the worlds most critical issues. This was a wonderful opportunity to meet 
leaders from a broad sector 
of academia, industry, and 
government, LeDuc said.
LeDuc won a competitive 
Grand Challenges Explorations Award in 2011 from the 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for his work on nutrition 
for infants and children in 
underdeveloped countries. 
He is currently working on 
adjusting the cell mechanics 
of leafy vegetables in Africa 
to make them more palatable 
for children. 
It was a great event because it gave me the opportunity to build and develop 
the collaborations, networks 
and tools needed to solve our 
common global challenges, 
LeDuc said. 
The summit is planned to 
occur every two years; it will 
reconvene in China in 2015. 
CMU professors attend London summit 
Professor wins Air Force research award
Assistant professor in mechanical engineering Carmel 
Majidi was awarded a threeyear, $360,000 grant from 
the Air Force Of?ce of Scienti?c Research (AFOSR) for 
his work in soft robotics.
The term soft robotics 
refers to a relatively new 
sector of robotics in which 
researchers combine organic 
chemistry, soft materials science, and robotics.
Majidis research will 
be used by the Air Force to 
improve electronic power 
sources and sensors for air 
vehicles and ?ight suits.
Majidi also heads the research conducted by Carnegie Mellons Soft Machines 
Lab, where he works on soft 
electronics and sensors to 
improve the ?exibility of 
medical devices and electronics. 
Im extremely grateful 
for this award as I continue 
my research into producing 
soft matter electronics that 
are elastically deformable 
and extend these technologies for harvesting electricity from their environment, 
Majidi said.
Ultimately, this new domain of ?eld robotics will 
help us focus on elastic and 
multifunctional materials. 
These types of new materials 
will be the building blocks 
for a new generation of devices and robots composed 
entirely of soft material and 
?uids, he said.
Campus LifePolicy on Cheating and PlagiarismWellness Course and C@CM
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
44 / 37
SATURDAY
High / Low
48 / 38
SUNDAY
High / Low
47 / 40
TUESDAY
High / Low
38 / 29
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
36 / 29
THURSDAY
High / Low
38 / 30
Student Senate is in 
contact with administrators in an attempt to integrate more students onto 
The Bridge. 
This system will then be 
used to help organize the 
poster policy, with students 
being able to upload an 
image of their poster and 
receive the date by which 
they must take it down.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
NOL UM
Holly Hippensteel, assistant dean of student affairs, 
spoke to Student Senate regarding academic integrity at 
Carnegie Mellon. 
Hippensteel presented 
proposed changes to the universitys policy on cheating 
and academic integrity. 
The draft policy has been 
approved by faculty senate, 
and is in the process of receiving feedback from other 
groups. 
Speci?c discussion centered around what constitutes plagiarism and communication between professors 
and students, as well as the 
role of collaboration in assignments.
Chair Report
The chair report focused 
on discouraging absences 
from Student Senate meetings 
to make sure that the Senate 
stays at quorum. Additionally, 
meetings have been scheduled with in?uential ?gures 
from the Craig Street area 
in order to improve the way 
Craig Street is associated with 
the campus and is related to 
Carnegie Mellon culture.
Special Allocations
The Carnegie Mellon 
University Chinese Students 
and Scholars Association 
(CSSA) petitioned for funding to host a two-day summit 
featuring eight panels on 
topics such as smart building and art, as well as a business competition. $2,000 
was allocated to CSSA. Additionally, the Japanese Student Association (JSA) was 
allocated $683.40 to help 
fund its Japanese spring festival on campus.
Discussion was held on 
whether the course being 
developed on Carnegie 
Mellon culture and wellness should be required 
for ?rst-year students, and 
whether it should be integrated as a part of the already required Computing 
at Carnegie Mellon course. 
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

March 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
break, hack, decrypt, or do 
whatever it takes to solve the 
challenge. The challenges 
are all set up with the intent 
of being hacked, making it 
an excellent, legal way to get 
hands-on experience.
Kaiyang Zhang, a masters 
student in entertainment 
technology who helped create the Toaster Wars competition, said, We think its a bit 
hard for high school students 
to give a theme and get them 
interested, so they can learn it 
and progress.
Danielle Corporon, a masters student in entertainment 
technology, feels that, We 
chose to develop the game 
for all ages, so kids, for example, dont think its limited 
to younger kids.
The competition, therefore, was developed to encourage high school students 
to participate in and enjoy  
hacking. Additionally, the 
contest will also help students 
learn how to identify security 
vulnerabilities and perform 
real-world attacks. 
The hope is that it will also 
encourage interest in computer science and its applications 
to cyber security. 
Learning computer science in school is important to 
real-life situations, said Tim 
McMullan, a masters student 
in entertainment technology.
Brumley agreed and added that he has expectations 
for more people to be interested in cyber security. 
A lot of people [are] interested in computer security. 
Our college kids have siblings, 
[so] hopefully well have 
[more] people interested.
In addition to their ?nancial sponsorship, the NSA has 
also been a vocal supporter 
of the Toaster Wars hacking 
competition. 
NSA representative Vanee 
Vines told the Associated 
Press, America increasingly 
needs professionals with 
highly technical cyber skills 
to help keep the country safe 
today  and to help the country meet future challenges 
and adapt with greater agility. When it comes to national 
security, there is no substitute 
for a dedicated, immensely 
talented workforce. We need 
the best and brightest to help 
us out-think and defeat our 
adversaries new ideas.
Toaster Wars has gained 
national attention for its efforts, receiving coverage from 
major news outlets such as 
NBC News.
Students look to candidates to unify campus community
mixed groups of undergraduate students, graduate students, and faculty discussed 
questions such as How do 
we maintain our high standards of a rigorous curriculum and cultivate a stronger 
ethic of care and community 
support for each other? and 
Why might students feel they 
need to navigate challenges 
without seeking help? The 
questions addressed issues in 
the realms of academic environment, personal wellness, 
and how the Carnegie Mellon 
community de?nes success.
Thomas Klein, a sophomore computer science major 
who attended the event, talked about some of the issues 
discussed, such as the role of 
Counseling and Psychological 
Services (CAPS). 
One of the big issues was 
with CAPS; people were confused about its role, what its 
supposed to provide. Another 
issue was student-faculty relationships  is it okay to 
reach out to students, if students want that? Both students and faculty agreed that 
it would be bene?cial to have 
this stronger bond.
Klein said that he thought 
the event was overall pretty 
helpful.
Gina Casalegno, dean of 
student affairs, said that there 
are several measures already 
being put into effect. The 
health center is offering a pilot group discussion program 
at the end of the semester. 
Not group therapy, but more 
like Alcoholics Anonymous 
meetings; much more a peer 
support group than directed 
group therapy. 
Casalegno also discussed 
other measures already put 
in place to combat stress culture outside of student affairs 
and student government. In 
some residence halls, RAs 
and CAs have started weekly 
discussion groups. There 
are many grassroots experiences that are occurring in 
residence hall and Greek life 
communities.
Casalegno talked about 
the academic side of the issue. 
Were trying to see what we 
can be doing from an advising 
side, what we can do to help 
students with course registration, see how [students] sequence courses or put courses 
together in a current semester 
 see if we are still capturing the right workload with 
course credits.
Dudley also mentioned 
the student governments 
plan to work with organizations already trying to combat 
stress culture. We wanted to 
make sure those groups that 
already had ideas on how to 
help stress had support, and 
that people knew what they 
were doing, as well as the 
resources that were being 
made available to students....
The student government is 
currently working on putting 
together a database of those 
organizations. Were working with CAPS right now and 
Health Services to make a 
place on the Internet where 
there can be a directory of all 
these kinds of resources.
There will also be, Dudley 
said, a fund for organizations 
with ideas to combat stress 
culture. Its kind of like a 
grant fund where organizations can apply to the deans 
of?ce, but you can apply with 
proposals, speci?c projects 
that you want funding for that 
will attack this issue. Anyone 
can apply for it.
When asked about future 
events, Dudley was clear that 
they would be diverse. Yes, 
were going to have to try to 
have more Town Halls, but 
were also going to balance it 
with these more moderated 
discussion events that provide 
more organized and concrete 
data for addressing exactly 
what these problems are.
Casalegno followed up 
with the information that 
we are not planning any additional deliberate democracy 
groups, but we havent made 
the decision that we wont 
have any more in the future.
The results of Tuesdays 
event will be compiled and 
analyzed to come up with 
measures to address problems 
within campus culture.
 Were compiling the answers  what are the core 
issues and what thoughts do 
people have about which areas we should most directly 
focus on as their immediate 
priorities, Casalegno said.
Campus ?ghts student stress 
VP/CFO position examined 
The search committee is 
looking for a candidate who 
has the proper educational 
background and ?nancial expertise. 
The committee believes an 
ideal applicant to be someone 
who has leadership experience, a strategic and insightful mind, excitement regarding the accomplishments and 
potential of the university, 
and a dedication to building 
an environment in which the 
community can thrive.
Carnegie Mellon is a complex organization  and is 
still young and has comparatively lesser resources than 
many of our peers. We play 
big for our size, as they say, 
and that requires someone 
who is smart, hard working, 
and innovative, Murphy said.
The search process for the 
new CFO began this past November with the development 
of the search committee, and 
the search ?rm was selected 
in January. 
Applications and nominations are now being accepted, 
and interviews will be conducted later this spring. The 
university plans to have a new 
CFO working in July.
Subra Suresh, PresidentElect, is involved with the process and will assume of?ce at 
roughly the same time as the 
new CFO. 
Additionally, a small number of student leaders will 
probably be able to meet with 
?nalists.
The nature of this highly 
quali?ed position requires an 
individual who is diligent, organized, and conscientious, 
sophomore psychology major 
Lauren Simicich said. 
The expectation is for this 
person to assume the numerous responsibilities that are 
expected of them and have 
them completed in an ef?cient and timely manner, 
she continued. If they can do 
that with an enthusiastic attitude, then you have found 
your new VP and CFO.
at 6:30 p.m. while the VPO 
debate is scheduled to begin 
at 8:00 pm. 
During these events, the 
moderator will present candidates with presubmitted questions and give them a limited 
time to respond.
Additionally, the candidates will have a period where 
they can openly discuss issues 
among themselves without 
restrictions on speaking order 
or individual time. 
Finally, there will be a period where the candidates will 
accept and answer audience 
questions.
To run for an executive 
of?ce, a student must obtain 
signatures from at least 100 
current undergraduate or 
graduate students. 
Candidates for Student 
Senate must provide a petition with at least 25 signatures from members of their 
college.
According to the of?cial 
position descriptions, the 
SBP must act as an advocate 
for Carnegie Mellon students 
both on and off campus, and 
oversees the running of the 
Executive Branch of student 
government. 
The president is assisted in 
this job by the vice president. 
The SBVPF is in charge of the 
Joint Funding Committee, 
which allocates funding to 
Carnegie Mellon student organizations.
SBVPO is responsible for 
overseeing, advising, and 
advocating for student organizations, as well as serving 
as chair of the Committee 
on Student Organizations, 
which oversees the process 
for recognizing different student organizations.
In response to the elections, students stated that 
they desire student body 
leaders who understand the 
community well in order to 
accurately represent Carnegie 
Mellon as a whole.
Senior composition major Eric Dietz said, I think 
the most important thing in 
a student body president is 
someone who knows the CMU 
community and can engage 
with many students across 
our departments and understand their mindsets. Because 
if you have a good handle on 
most everything, you can lead 
sort of from the inside, and 
I think thats an important 
factor.
First-year international relations and politics major Ariel Lee agreed. I think the student body president should be 
someone who recognizes and 
fairly represents all sectors of 
our school  someone who 
knows about different departments, and doesnt only have 
one perspective on the community.
Lee went on to stress the 
importance of having leaders who understand the tense 
academic environment of the 
school. 
Especially in light of recent discussions about CMUs 
stress culture, it would be nice 
to have a leader who realizes 
that stress is an issue, and be 
able to help solve that problem. Because the happiness of 
students is important not only 
to maximize on our education, but also to help stimulate 
personal growth.
NSA looks for cyber warriors
CULTURE, from A1
SEARCH, from A1
ELECTIONS, from A1
HACKING, from A1
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Vice President of Campus Affairs Michael Murphy (right) hosted a VP/CFO search Town Hall last month.
Photos courtesy of the respective candidates, photo of Jalen Poteat by Kate Groschner/Photo Editor, 
Carnegie Mellon Elections Board logo courtesy of cmusenate.org
From left to right, descending, student body vice president for organizations candidates Corinne Rockoff, 
Radowan Khan, and Susanna Park, and student body vice president for ?nance candidates Joshua Swanson 
and Jalen Poteat. 

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  March 25, 2013
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
HERB  the Home Exploring Robot Butler  can often 
be seen through the glass 
walls of the Personal Robotics Lab in Newell-Simon Hall 
picking up iced tea bottles or 
taking books off a bookshelf. 
Complete with ?ngernails and 
a British accent, HERB is the 
perfect caregiver: He can open 
doors, microwave meals, and 
even separate an Oreo cookie 
from its cream.
The focus of the Personal 
Robotics Lab is physical interaction with the world  opening doors, picking up objects, 
cleaning, said Siddhartha 
Srinivasa, director of the lab 
and associate professor in the 
Robotics Institute. The focus 
is on complicated manipulation tasks with a lot of uncertainty and a lot of clutter. 
If you look at a factory ?oor, 
robots can do magical things. 
But if you look at a home  
at least my home  it looks 
nothing like a factory ?oor. 
So were trying to get robots 
like HERB to move from the 
factory ?oor to homes so they 
can perform useful tasks that a 
caregiver would perform.
When Nabisco ?rst approached Carnegie Mellon 
and requested an Oreo-separating robot for its Cookie 
vs. Creme campaign, Robotics Institute project scientist 
Prasanna Velagapudis initial 
reaction was, If there was 
going to be a robot that could 
do this, it would have to be 
the Home Exploring Robot 
Butler. I mean, thats exactly 
what youd want a butler for, 
right?
Srinivasa was enthusiastic about the challenges potential for public outreach. 
Weve always struggled to 
get technology and robots to 
be appreciated and understood by people other than 
scientists, Srinivasa said. Its 
a cool robot and we want everyone to know how cool it is.
However, he admitted that 
in the beginning they did not 
know if HERB had the precision and dexterity to actually 
separate an Oreo cookie. It 
would be like having a giant 
football player wearing winter 
gloves trying to manipulate a 
tiny Oreo, he said. It was by 
far the most fragile, delicate, 
small, sensitive object we have 
ever manipulated.
Nevertheless, HERB rose 
to the challenge and starred 
in what is now a widely circulated YouTube video documenting the robots success in 
separating an Oreos cookie 
from its cream. Not only is 
HERB the only research robot to have ever completed 
the task, but the process 
through which its algorithms 
were improved to separate an 
Oreo resulted in the creation 
of new tools that will be useful in completing other tasks 
in the future.
The true color of a good 
algorithm, explained Srinivasa, is that it is very generalizable. HERB can get a meal out 
of the fridge, microwave food, 
clean up after a mess, and 
separate an Oreo. The underlying algorithms are the same 
across all these tasks and 
are even generalizable 
across robots.
Velagapudi described the Personal 
Robotics Labs goal as 
building up libraries and 
algorithms that are not just 
specific 
to individual 
tasks, 
   but can be applied 
to a broad range of activities. 
We see each task not as something we have to design an 
algorithm speci?cally for, but 
more like points in the space 
of solutions that we should be 
able to cover, he said.
Despite HERBs 
technical capabilities, he still needs 
to work on his 
manners. One of 
the things that weve 
noticed is that we 
spent 
five 
years on improving capability, 
but people are still hesitant to 
accept robots in their homes. 
Its not just about capability  
its about behavior, how situationally aware it is, and how 
sensitive it is to your own personal space, Srinivasa said. 
The Robotics Institute works 
with the Human-Computer 
Interaction Institute to study 
what robot designs users ?nd 
most acceptable. The Oreo 
demo gave us an opportunity to play around a lot with 
HERBs expressiveness, Velagapudi said. Walking up and 
down the hallways of NewellSimon Hall and putting his 
hand on Srinivasas shoulder 
at one point, HERB certainly 
seemed like a very friendly 
robot.
Srinivasa envisions a future where robots in the home 
will be more common. The 
amount of technology we 
have now in our homes is 
more than what the biggest 
research labs had 25 years 
ago, so I think its inevitable that were going to 
have more and more automation, he said. With 
HERB paving the way, 
personal robotic butlers 
are no longer a part of 
science ?ction, but a reality 
that is currently being developed on Carnegie Mellons 
campus.
Robot butler can open doors, talk, and separate Oreos 
Pipeline aims to help online projects
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
Its easy to get the ball rolling for an online project, but 
managing them is a different 
story. Kurt Luther is out to 
make the managing aspects a 
whole lot easier. A postdoctoral fellow at Carnegie Mellons 
Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute, Luther is the creator 
of Pipeline, a tool that will 
help people collaborate on online projects. After researching the way online collaborations currently work, Luther 
identi?ed some key problem 
areas.
On one hand, the creator 
can just trust himself and 
everyone else in the project 
is not trusted. That ends up 
looking like a benevolent dictatorship and is sort of a top 
-down style of leadership. 
On the other hand, the creator 
can trust almost everyone in 
the project, causing it to look 
like a wiki system where software doesnt constrain what 
people are allowed to do, Luther said. Instead, [Pipeline] 
allows the people involved in 
a project to communicate with 
strangers who arent involved 
but have an interest.
The idea for Pipeline originated while Luther was completing his dissertation as a 
Ph.D. student at the Georgia 
Institute of Technology. He 
had just ?nished a degree in 
computer graphics and animation, but his adviser, Amy 
Bruckman, was interested in 
online communities. While 
looking for an issue that overlapped both of their interests, 
Luther discovered collaboration on creative projects online that have failed due to the 
leader being overwhelmed by 
a centralized management.
Luther then formulated 
studies to ?nd issues that the 
creators faced, discovered different challenges in collaborative online projects, and thus 
found a way to manage them. 
It only seemed logical to develop a tool that improved 
success rates of online collaborative projects.
According to Luther, Pipeline is a web application that 
is a cross between a project 
management tool and a peer 
production platform. Not 
only does it have conventional 
project management capabilities, but it also allows others 
to easily search for projects 
in which they are interested 
by giving creators the option 
to make their works public. 
People interested in a project 
can ask to join the effort, stay 
in it for as long as they want, 
and leave when they feel they 
had done their part.
Compared to pre-existing 
project management tools, 
which only allow a small 
group of closely knit people to 
work on private projects, Pipeline distributes leadership by 
allowing the project creator to 
trust as many or as few people 
as he wants. 
Therefore, leadership is 
decentralized: The creator 
can assign tasks of varying 
importance to others, making them subleaders, or give 
project participants equally 
weighted responsibilities. In 
addition, Pipeline automatically updates changes made to 
the project.
All of these qualities facilitate completion of complex 
online creative efforts, much 
like the one that he featured 
in his Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative 
Work and Social Computing 
(CSCW) lecture in San Antonio, Texas. He discussed 
developing Pipeline for Newgrounds, a website that allows 
people to create and distribute creative virtual projects 
such as short ?lms, games, 
and artwork. According to Luther, less than 20 percent of 
the projects started on Newgrounds come to completion.
Luther decided to apply 
Pipeline to one such project, 
called Holiday Flood. Holiday Flood was organized during November and December 
2011 and featured 30 artists 
from more than 12 different 
countries across ?ve different continents that gathered 
to develop a digital calendar. 
Two pieces of artwork were 
submitted for each of the 
12 days of Christmas to the 
Newgrounds site, and their 
thumbnails were lined up to 
give a preview of the actual 
calendar. Later, the interactive gallery was submitted, 
and site visitors were able to 
see all the artwork accompanied by a new rendition of 12 
Days of Christmas playing in 
the background.
In retrospect, Luther argued that Pipeline improved 
distribution of leadership 
for Holiday Flood and made 
it easier for people to know 
what others were working on. 
This way, the creator of a project no longer had the task of 
administering everyones duties  anyone can contribute 
ideas to improve the quality 
and success rate of an online 
artistic enterprise.
[Pipeline] 
allows the 
people involved 
in a project to 
communicate 
with strangers 
who arent 
involved 
but have an 
interest
Kurt Luther 
HCI postdoc
New discoveries in physics reveal a lumpy universe
A group of cosmologists 
controlling the European 
Space Agencys Planck satellite recently completed a 
long-term study that created 
a heat map of the universe 
around 370,000 years after 
the Big Bang. 
This snapshot of the baby 
universe, taken using cosmic 
microwave analysis, largely 
reinforces the theory emerging over the past 20 years 
that the universe is expanding. This is mainly the theory 
of a universe dominated by 
the mysterious concepts of 
dark energy and dark matter 
(the map indicates the universes total mass make-up 
as 4.9 percent normal matter, 
27 percent dark matter, and 
68 percent dark energy).
However, like any major 
scienti?c discovery, the map 
also raised many questions. 
It seems that the universe 
is slightly lumpier than expected, with a large, anomalous cool spot toward the 
northern portion of our sky. 
Further, the map indicates 
the universe is actually 100 
million years older than previously thought and that its 
rate of expansion is actually 
slower, coming in at 13.8 billion years and 67 kilometers 
per second per megaparsec 
(an astronomical unit).
The study, launched in 
2009, is being well received 
by the cosmological community. Many cosmologists look 
to the discovery as a great 
tool for further re?ection and 
analysis into the mysteries of 
the Big Bang and dark matter.
Source: The New York Times
Computing takes a quantum leap in processing speed
The major military contractor Lockheed Martin has 
announced that it plans to 
buy an early-developmentalstage quantum computer 
from the Canadian company D-Wave Systems. If DWave has created a successful quantum computer, this 
could have huge applications 
for the world of computing, 
especially in the hands of 
Lockheed Martin.
Quantum computers operate on the basis of quantum 
mechanics, which include 
some principles that are 
pretty strange and foreign to 
most people. In terms of computing this means that a bit 
(1s and 0s of computer code) 
can be interpreted as either a 
1 or 0 or both, all at the same 
time. 
Scientists in this ?eld have 
reformed the vocabulary 
here to refer to these new bits 
as Qubits (for quantum bits). 
This kind of computing can 
allow for computations up 
to a million times faster than 
the fastest computers today.
Many are skeptical about 
whether D-Wave has actually 
accomplished what they say 
they have, but if they have, 
the applications are endless. 
Lockheed Martins chief technical of?cer says they plan 
to test the technologys applications in complex radar, 
space, and aircraft systems, 
but it will still be a while until quantum computing becomes commercially viable.
Source: The New York Times
Compiled By
LACHLAN LANCASTER
SCITECH BRIEFS
Courtesy of Jason Campbell
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Left: HERB hangs out in the Personal Robotics Lab. Middle: Siddharta Srinivasa poses with HERB, his labor of love. Right: HERB attempts to pick up a book with Velagapudi standing by.
Courtesy of Kurt Luther
Kurt Luther, a postdoctoral fellow in HCI recently created Pipeilne a 
program which aims to help online collaborative projects.

---------------------------------------------------

March 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Staffwriter
The Defense Advanced 
Research Project Agency 
(DARPA)s robotics challenge 
has been pushing scientists to 
create robots that surpass any 
they have developed thus far. 
Tartan Rescue Team, a team 
from Carnegie Mellons National Robotics Engineering 
Center (NREC), is developing 
the CMU Highly Intelligent 
Mobile Platform (CHIMP) robot 
to compete in the challenge.
DARPA created the robotics challenge in response to 
the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear 
crisis, in which dangerous 
and health-threatening conditions prevented an effective 
human response. After the 
nuclear crisis, robots were 
not capable of properly dealing with the disaster. DARPA 
aims to promote the improvement of robotics technology 
to develop robots that can ef?ciently work in dangerous, 
degraded, human-engineered 
environments, according to 
the Tartan Rescue website.
Toward this end, the Tartan 
Rescue Team is engineering a 
class of robot that integrates 
robot autonomy with human 
control. This approach entails 
that a human controller would 
make high-level decisions for 
the robot, such as determining the path it takes, while 
the robot would have enough 
capability to avoid sudden collisions and maintain stability.
The team members include 
Siddharta Srinivasa, David 
Stager, Eric Meyhofer, Bryan 
Salesky, Alonzo Kelly, Maxim 
Likhachev, Clark Haynes, Herman Herman, and Drew Bagnell  all of whom are af?liated with  NREC or the Robotics 
Institute. The teams sponsors 
include Kollmorgen, OshKosh, 
Pratt & Miller, and Honeywell, 
among others.
The CHIMP robot has 
sensors, such as cameras and 
laser range?nders, in its head 
and limbs to detect obstacles 
in the environment and to stop 
the robot before a collision occurs, explained Tony Stentz, 
Tartan Rescue Team leader 
and NREC director. The robot 
is also intelligent enough to 
perform simple tasks, such as 
stepping onto rungs of ladders 
or turning steering wheels, 
without needing step-by-step 
control. The supervised autonomy method allows for a 
highly capable robot without 
the risk of technical dif?culties and complications that 
could result from a fully autonomous robot.
The primary advantage of 
supervised autonomy is that 
it is easier to achieve than 
full autonomy. Supervised 
autonomy provides a way for 
a remote human operator to 
control the robot via high-level commands and to help it get 
out of trouble, Stentz said.
In addition to practical integration of autonomy and 
human control, CHIMP has a 
number of innovative physical features that would make 
it the ideal candidate to respond to disasters such as the 
Fukushima crisis. The CHIMP 
robot includes a number of 
technical advances in mechanism design, robot motion 
planning, perception-enabled 
grasping, advanced mobility, 
and multilimb manipulation, 
Stentz said.
One such advantage, 
namely its ability to switch 
between moving on rubberized tracks and on two limbs, 
provides tremendous advantages for physical stability as 
well as programming ef?ciency. When moving over rough 
grounds or debris, CHIMP maneuvers itself on rubberized 
tracks located on all four of 
its limbs. Moving with all four 
limbs on the ground prevents 
the robot from losing balance, 
even during a period of power 
failure or technical dif?culty. 
It also avoids the complex programming required to coordinate a robot that only moves 
on two limbs. However, in the 
event that the robot needs to 
perform a task such as using 
tools or climbing ladders, it is 
able to switch to maneuvering 
on two limbs.
For robots geared toward 
responding to crises similar to 
the Fukushima nuclear crisis, 
Stentz believes it is imperative 
to make the robot as autonomous as possible. For disaster-response scenarios, the 
communication link from the 
human operator to the robot 
may be unreliable; therefore, 
it is important for the robot to 
be as autonomous as possible. 
There are many hard technical problems, but I would say 
that the perception, grasping, 
and manipulation tasks are 
the most dif?cult to conquer 
to achieve greater autonomy, 
he explained.
As detailed on Tartan Rescue Teams website, robots 
will be judged on capabilities 
that include opening doors, 
climbing ladders and navigating walkways, and breaking 
through concrete panels using 
tools. The robots will also be 
assesed on more speci?c criteria, such as ?nding and closing valves near leaking pipes, 
and replacing components like 
cooling pumps.
According to Stentz, if the 
team were to win the robotics 
challenge, the ideas incorporated in CHIMP would be used 
in future robots.
CMU roboticists develop CHIMP for DARPA challenge
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
While Pittsburgh weather 
might have you feeling otherwise, spring is of?cially upon 
us. And even though that currently means a high of 45F 
with ?urries, soon the mercury will rise and the skies 
will clear. One necessary component of spring and summer 
will probably be sunglasses.
Besides being a fashion accessory, sunglasses provide 
necessary health bene?ts. 
Howstuffworks.com explains 
that a high-quality pair of sunglasses can provide protection 
from harmful ultraviolet (UV) 
rays, protect your irises from 
overexposure to intense light 
and glare, and block out certain frequencies of light. And 
even though all sunglasses  
whether theyre Ray-Bans or a 
$10 pair from Walmart  are 
made of some sort of tinted 
plastic or glass, you might be 
sacri?cing some of the aforementioned bene?ts for price 
or style. But how do these accessories manage to protect 
your eyes from the sun?
First, some background on 
the phenomenon of light. The 
different colors of visible light 
 the ones we see in a rainbow  each have a unique 
wavelength and frequency. 
Light from the sun is white 
light, which is a combination 
of all colors. Other forms of 
light, such as UV radiation, 
have frequencies so high that 
our eyes cannot see them.
There are three different 
categories for the light we do 
see: direct, re?ected, and ambient. As you might expect, 
direct light is light that comes 
directly from the source to 
your eyes. You would encounter direct light if you stared 
at the sun or a streetlight 
(not recommended). Re?ected 
light, typically called glare, 
is light that has bounced off 
a re?ective surface: Water, 
sand, and snow can form particularly harsh re?ected light. 
Ambient light is light that has 
no clear source, an example 
of which is the glow that surrounds a city at night.
The ideal pair of sunglasses uses multiple technologies to shield against harmful 
light. The most familiar and 
obvious technology is the tint 
of the lens. Each tint  gray, 
green, yellow, brown, and 
even purple  has its own different function. 
While a gray tint is more 
all-purpose, yellow tinted 
glasses speci?cally ?lter out 
the blue wavelength to give its 
wearer a clearer, crisper image. The lenses become tinted 
by a process that includes 
smearing molecules that can 
absorb light wavelengths onto 
clear polycarbonate (plastic) 
lenses.
Another form of technology that sunglasses typically 
use is an ultraviolet coating. 
UV light is grouped into two 
categories based on its wavelength: UVA and UVB. Your 
cornea can typically absorb 
all of this light, but they can 
sometimes penetrate to the 
lens of your eye. 
This prolonged exposure 
can eventually form cataracts 
or even cause eye cancer. 
Sunglasses protect your eyes 
by absorbing the UV wavelengths, which is done by 
applying a UV coating to the 
lenses.
One last, popular piece 
of technology in sunglasses 
is the photochromic lens, 
which are able to change color when exposed to UV light. 
Many well-known sunglasses 
brands, like Transitions lenses, are made of plastic lenses 
that are coated in a ?lm of 
organic molecules. According 
to The New York Times, these 
organic particles undergo a 
chemical reaction when they 
interact with UV rays and 
change shape so that the lens 
becomes tinted. Lenses that 
are made of glass typically 
have crystals that can also 
alter their orientation when 
exposed to UV light.
As you can see, a proper 
pair of sunglasses utilizes a 
lot of different technologies 
to protect your eyes. So the 
next time youre shopping 
for a new pair of shades, look 
closely at the label to see what 
protection it offers. Now that 
youre aware of the importance of eye protection, you 
have no excuse to forgo function for fashion.
HOW THINGS WORKWhen it comes to shades, its function over fashion
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University Tartan Rescue
The CHIMP robot was created to help in emergency situations, such as the Fukushima nuclear crisis.
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University Tartan Rescue
The CHIMP robot is also equipped to climb ladders, as shown above.
Photo illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  March 25, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Jackson Lane, Daniel Tkacik, Alan 
Vangpat
COPY
Swathi Anand, Sawsan Boutemine, Matt Brown, 
Nivedita Chopra, Ellie Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, 
Jordyn Greenberg,  Chris Han, Satvika Neti, 
Joey Peiser, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
HERB paves way for human-like household robotics
Programming camps useful for basic tech education
Sexually transmitted diseases 
(STDs) are on the rise, both nationwide and in Allegheny County. 
According to a recent article in the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, there has 
been a 6 percent increase in cases of 
chlamydia and a 22 percent increase 
in cases of gonorrhea and syphilis 
in the county in 2012 compared to 
2011.
This increase may stem from the 
rise in the number of people who are 
willing to get screened, or it may reveal an actual increase in STDs in the 
county. Either way, Carnegie Mellon 
students must remain cautious when 
participating in sexual activities in 
order to prevent the spread of STDs.
The importance of sexual protection may seem straightforward, but 
it cannot be stressed enough. Although some students may feel that 
using protection is so obvious that it 
doesnt need to be discussed, 2010s 
National Survey of Sexual Health 
and Behaviors found that only one 
in four acts of vaginal intercourse are 
condom protected in the U.S. The 
numbers rise to one in three among 
single people. However, this number 
still only signi?es a small percentage 
of adults that use condoms during 
vaginal sex.
According to a study conducted 
by the American College Health Association in 2009, 61 percent of surveyed students at Carnegie Mellon 
engaged in either oral, vaginal, or 
anal sex within the past year; a survey performed by The Tartan in 2011 
found the same statistic. This percentage is only slightly lower than 
the national average of 66.5 percent, 
which allows for generalization of 
national statistics to the Carnegie 
Mellon community.
Approximately 6,300 undergraduate students are currently enrolled 
at the university; approximately 
3,800 of those people have had sex in 
the last year. The National Surveys 
results suggest that around 2,550 
of these people did not use protection during that encounter. The fact 
that 2,550 out of 3,800 sexually active students do not use protection is 
both worrying and dangerous.
Unprotected sex is a risky proposition. Students must understand 
these risks, and protect themselves 
accordingly. Condoms, dental dams, 
and other forms of barriers protect 
not only students, but also their 
partners. 
To protect themselves, students 
can take advantage of the resources 
and events that Student Health Services offers, such as Free Condom 
Friday.
As STDs are on the rise in Allegheny County, protected sex bene?ts 
everyone.
The Home Exploring Robot Butler (HERB), a product of Carnegie 
Mellons Personal Robotics Lab, recently performed the frustrating task 
that all Oreo lovers face  separating the cookie from the cream  as 
part of Nabiscos Cookies vs. Cream 
campaign.
In a recent YouTube performance, 
HERB con?dently separates the two 
halves of an Oreo before removing 
the precious cream and wiping the 
cookie clean.
Although this task may not demand the abilities of an advanced 
robot, HERBs newfound capabilities 
are an impressive feat and a step toward making robotics technology accessible to the public.
HERBs Oreo feat brings the 
public into contact with the current 
capabilities of robotics. Director 
Siddhartha Srinivasa and the other 
researchers presented HERB as a 
charming robot capable of performing a relatable task, that most people 
have tried at least once. This choice 
makes the robot accesible and novel 
to the average citizen. HERB normally tests algorithms, software, and 
other technology to perform tasks in 
a home or business setting, but the 
Oreo Challenge brings the publics 
attention to how advanced current 
robots can be.
Separating Oreo cookies from 
the cream seems like a deceptively 
simple task to a human, but there 
are a myriad of dif?culties for a robot to overcome. First off, an Oreo is 
a brittle and easily breakable cookie, 
which meant that HERB had to be 
able to pull it apart ?rmly enough 
to separate the cookies, but gently 
enough to avoid breaking them. To 
further complicate matters, no Oreo 
cookie is the exact size as any other, 
so the researchers had to program 
HERB to ?gure out how to deal with 
each individual cookie. These tasks 
seem simple to people because we 
have ?ne motor control skills, but 
those skills are extremely dif?cult to 
replicate in robots. HERB had to preform a delicate task that had a lot of 
variation within it, which indicates 
that HERB has a great capacity for a 
variety of complex endeavors.
Though the separation of an 
Oreo cookie is a trivial matter, this 
achievement shows the enormous 
strides the scienti?c community has 
made in recent years. Splitting the 
cookie from the cream is only the 
beginning of an exciting new age in 
robotics.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Carnegie Mellon has a number of 
programs that focus on developing 
science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics (STEM) education for youth in the Pittsburgh area. 
An example of these programs is CMITES, where children from kindergarten to 10th grade attend summer 
camps on campus to learn skills in 
the STEM ?elds.
Programs like C-MITES are an 
effective way to promote programming education for younger students, which will prove to be a vital 
skill in the future job market.
Another program is the picoCTF, 
a competition that teaches high 
school students hacking and computer security. The program then 
challenges students to improve those 
skills. 
According to a Carnegie Mellon 
press release, Students participating get hands-on experience in security topics such as cryptography and 
codes, computer bugs, exploits, and 
defenses. The competition, hosted 
by Carnegie Mellon-af?liated organizations Team Osiris and the Plaid 
Parliament of Pwning, looks to cater 
to students of all skill levels.
In a world where technology is an 
increasingly important and prevalent part of everyday life, technological illiteracy may turn into a major 
barrier to overcome. 
The demand for programmers 
in the workforce is skyrocketing:              
1 million jobs in the tech sector may 
remain vacant because of the lack 
of people with programming skills, 
according to code.org. There are elements of basic programming that 
can be applied to any career path 
one pursues. Programming fosters 
the ability to develop algorithms and 
enhance ones capacity to apply logic 
to problems.
Too many students are entering the workforce with little-to-no 
knowledge of basic computer programming. Events like picoCTF 
and programs such as C-MITES 
help combat this, and are crucial to 
changing the idea that programming 
education isnt important enough to 
start teaching before college.
Use protection when participating in sexual activity
XIYU WANG
After a series of shootings last 
year  including those in Aurora, 
Colo. and Newtown, Conn.  several nationwide efforts were made 
to improve Americas relaxed gun 
legislation and enforcement, especially on the federal level. However, 
there are also detractors and gun 
advocates who have been critical of 
these changes.
Last month, one Colorado sheriff, John Cooke, said that he would 
not enforce two gun-control laws 
that would be signed by governor John Hickenlooper (D-Colo.). 
Cooke called these laws feel-good, 
knee-jerk reactions that are unenforceable. Other Colorado sheriffs have made similar statements, 
while sheriffs in other states, such 
as Oregon and Kentucky, stated that 
they will not enforce federal gun 
legislation.
The stance that these sheriffs 
have taken is highly problematic. 
Such of?cials are supposed to enforce the law to the best of their 
ability. Refusing to enforce laws, or 
only enforcing certain laws, is akin 
to teachers refusing to teach or doctors refusing to treat people. Unless 
there are very good reasons for their 
actions, sheriffs refusing to enforce 
the law are not doing their jobs.
In the case of Colorado, the laws 
in question aim to expand background searches and limit ammunition magazines to 15 rounds. Enforcing these laws would not require the 
sheriff to actually track down and 
con?scate guns; rather, they only 
require that one makes sure vendors 
are properly ?ling paperwork, and 
that they are not selling too many 
rounds. There is no good reason 
why these laws cannot be enforced.
Although Colorado has been traditionally known for its cowboy 
culture, it is surprising to me how 
resistant some of its citizens have 
been to gun enforcement laws, especially considering last year's deadly 
theater shooting in Aurora.
This intransigence is a testament 
to how deeply entrenched gun culture is in certain parts of America. 
Many of the new gun legislation 
laws certainly do not nullify the second amendment, but it seems like 
they have nonetheless stirred mistrust and panic in gun a?cionados.
There is an almost irrational fear 
among gun lovers. Consider the 
recent increase in gun purchases 
made, as evidenced by The New 
York Times, after Vice President Joe 
Biden announced that he would propose measures to curb gun violence. 
He did not actually propose the 
measures, but simply announced 
that he would propose them.
To reduce gun violence and better regulate the sale of ?rearms, the 
policy required is simple  stricter 
background checks, a national gun 
registry, and the tracking of guns 
over time. The real challenge may 
lie in confronting die-hard gun advocates and changing Americas gun 
culture.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Sheriffs must be gun-ho about enforcement
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVEPresident talks elections
This week marks the start of the 
2013 Student Government Elections. This is an important time in 
the year that gives you the power to 
make a positive impact in the community here. Over my four years, 
Ive seen a lot of progress in student 
government and the continuation of 
that progress begins with this election. I hope you will agree with me 
that the size, publicity, and impact 
of student government has been on 
an upward trajectory this year. Student involvement in this election 
will ensure that progress continues.
For those of you who were here 
during last years elections, there 
was, unfortunately, a great deal of 
turmoil and controversy surrounding the elections. Im glad that this 
year there is a much less contentious 
environment, but I do not want that 
to detract from the attention that 
was paid to that election, which had 
the highest turnout in recent memory. I urge those of you who read this 
to not only do your part and vote 
in the election, but to also remind 
your friends and classmates to vote 
as well. There are a small number of 
positions you will be voting on and 
voting itself is online, so making 
your voice heard is a very small time 
commitment that has an important 
impact. The winning margin last 
year for President was 64 votes. The 
year before the margin was 50 votes. 
Given low turnout rates in the past, 
this means extra votes really do have 
tremendous power in this election.
As an undergraduate in the election, you are able to vote for Student 
Senators to represent your college. 
All students are able to vote for 
president, vice president for ?nance, 
and vice president for organizations. 
There are great candidates running 
for these positions and I urge you to 
attend the debates today and tomorrow to learn more about them and 
their platforms. Within these three 
positions, there is a tremendous 
amount of power, as those who ?ll 
the positions advocate for students 
with the administration, manage 
student organization recognition, 
and decide funding among many 
other duties. I can say on behalf of 
all student government execs that 
these positions all hold very meaningful responsibilities that require 
a lot of dedication from the winner. 
By voting you are not only choosing 
who you want to take on those responsibilities, but you are ensuring 
they are held accountable. By voting 
for one of these excellent candidates 
you are helping to positively shape 
your CMU experience.
Voting will open this Thursday 
at noon. Before then you can read 
up on the candidates platforms at 
cmu.edu/studentvote  the same 
link where you can vote. To get 
more informed please attend the 
debates, which are hosted by The 
Tartan: Student Body President is 
today in McConomy at 6 p.m. Vice 
President for Finance is tomorrow 
at 6:30 p.m. and Vice President for 
Organizations is directly after that 
at 8:00 p.m. Both of those debates 
are in Rangos 3. I wish the best of 
luck to all of the candidates involved 
and am excited to see what next year 
holds for student government.
Will Weiner
Student Body President
Chair: Elections Board

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
March 25, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
After spring break, The Tartan could use some motivation. So we asked,
Whats keeping you going until Carnival?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Matthew Early
Biology/Psychology
Sophomore
The thought of three days with 
no work and so many great activities to look forward to.
Grace Ju
Economics/Statistics
Sophomore
The excitement that awaits; the 
anticipation of hard work paying 
off!
Hannah Schmitt
Architecture
Junior
Deadlines.
Nitesh Turaga
Computational Biology
Graduate student
Its sunny outside and thats 
keeping me feeling good.
Carlos Gil
ECE
Junior
The personal projects Im working on.
MARTHA PATERSON
Junior Staffwriter
After the highly publicized trial 
surrounding the Steubenville rape 
case, where a 16-year-old girl was 
raped at a party by two high school 
football players, it's natural that the 
media had an immediate response 
to the rapists sentencing. Their response, however, was less than ideal.
Rather than bemoan the fact that 
these rapists received the minimum 
sentence  both serving a year for 
the rape and one serving another 
year for circulating pictures of the 
rape  major news outlets like CNN 
grieved the guilty verdict. CNN correspondent Poppy Harlow, while reporting from the scene, stated how 
dif?cult it was to watch "as these 
two young men, [who] had such 
promising futures  star football 
players, very good students  literally watched as they believed their 
[lives] fell apart."
The judge of the case mentioned 
that "this is the problem with social 
media." A correspondent for NBC 
again emphasized the sadness of the 
future of the rapists: "Both boys had 
promising football careers  Mays 
the quarterback, Richmond the receiver  on the beloved high school 
team and dreams of college. In court, 
their lawyers and parents pleaded 
with the judge not to impose a harsh 
sentence."
In what world is this a proper reaction to a rape sentencing? Despite 
how promising their careers may 
have seemed before this trial, the 
guilty verdict is not what ruined their 
futures. What ruined their futures 
was their decision to commit a rape.
A boy can be a football star and 
an excellent student, but that doesn't 
mean anything if he is also a rapist. 
These boys made the conscious decision to take advantage of a girl and 
brag about it on social media, and 
none of that says "promising future." 
They committed the crime and they 
should have to pay the consequences 
for their actions. A few years in jail 
and registration as juvenile sex offenders is a lighter sentence than 
they would have gotten had they 
been tried as adults.
The most disturbing part of these 
reactions is not the fact that they 
happened, but the fact that they happen so frequently. As a country, we 
decry India and Egypt for being rape 
friendly, but we close our eyes to 
what happens on our own soil. The 
reaction to the Steubenville case was 
abhorrent, but it was not unusual. 
When someone tries to take their 
rapist to court, it is common for rape 
apologists to come out of the woodwork to ask questions and draw conclusions that don't matter. "What 
were you wearing? Were you drunk? 
Do you have casual sex? Did you lead 
him on? Was it really rape, or just sex 
that you regretted in the morning?" 
These are just a few questions that 
rape survivors must answer  its 
no surprise that 97 percent of rapists 
never spend a day in jail, according 
to the Rape, Abuse & Incest National 
Network (RAINN).
The reaction to rape needs to 
change. It's sickening to live in a 
country so saturated in rape culture 
that we blame the victims for ruining 
the lives of the rapists. 
Without a drastic change in the 
way we react to cases of rape, there 
is no way we can change anything 
else about the crime; everything 
from how often rape is committed 
to how many rapes go unreported is 
a direct result of valuing the rapist 
over the victim. In a report published 
by the U.S. Department of Justice, 
women admitted that they feared 
reprimands from police of?cers for 
reporting an incidicent.
Rape is a problem in America, 
and it's clear from the reactions to 
the Steubenville case that people 
don't even realize it.
Media response to rape unacceptable
KYLE HENSON
This isnt your fathers Republican Party anymore. America is going 
through a typical shift: After a party 
gets trounced in an election cycle, 
new faces emerge, new messages 
make their way to the surface, and 
the old ones get phased out.
Senator Rand Pauls (R-Ky.) 13 
-hour ?libuster and Senator John 
McCains (R-Ariz.) reaction exemplify this emerging divide perfectly. 
After Attorney General Eric Holder 
declared that it would be within 
presidential rights to call a drone 
strike upon a U.S. citizen who doesnt 
pose an immediate threat, Paul took 
to the Senate ?oor to defend our 
Constitutional rights of due process. 
McCain later called Paul and his supporters wacko birds.
Remembering that, in 2008, McCain was the Republican presidential candidate (the leader of the party), its interesting to note that Paul 
is drawing a lot of new support from 
Republicans while McCain is slowly 
becoming obsolete.
Paul is a libertarian conservative 
and McCain is a neo-conservative. 
While Paul believes that the government is too big and interferes too 
much in day-to-day affairs, McCain 
believes in using big government to 
achieve conservative ends like national defense. 
Additionally, Paul believes in 
federalism. He advocates for states 
rights in issues such as marijuana legalization and gay marriage. This is 
the way our country started and the 
way the Founding Fathers intended 
it to be.
The shift between big government conservatives to more marketoriented libertarian conservatives is 
important, not only because it shows 
that the party is reacting to its message becoming obsolete, but also 
because it shows that conservative 
principles in America are evolving.
In the past, conservatism implied a pro-rich, racist, and bigoted 
attitude. Now, conservatism is beginning to imply a belief in an opportunistic society thats true to constitutional principles.
This is a message that a lot of people want to hear. As marijuana legalization starts to garner more and 
more support, the Republican party 
could make huge strides in gaining 
support for itself by bringing that 
stance to Washington. The libertarian arm of the party is already starting to do so, but as more people like 
Paul emerge, the entire Republican 
Party may back the issue. 
The same holds true for gay marriage, which recently received historically high support (58 percent) in a 
poll by The Washington Post, and is 
now supported by Senator Rob Portman (R-Ohio), who was a frontrunner for Romneys vice president pick.
Politically, Republicans lose support by being the less sexy party  
one of old, rich, white people. The 
party could gain lots of support by 
taking the idea of limited government and running with it. 
Libertarianism is now becoming 
trendy. Gary Johnson, the libertarian 
candidate for president in 2012, was 
the only presidential candidate who 
crowd-surfed during his campaign. 
Republicans can become the 
younger party of ef?cient government, equality of opportunity, and 
government reform.
The new wing of the Republican 
Party is starting to take shape and 
oust the establishments of Republicans who previously dominated the 
party. 
This is a good, natural shift that 
re?ects winning policies. Pauls ?libuster and Portmans switch to supporting gay marriage are hopefully 
just the ?rst of many indicators of 
a broad shift in ideology for the Republican Party.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Republican ideology shift positive
SATVIKA NETI
The stop-and-frisk policy of 
the New York Police Department 
(NYPD) has always walked the line 
between being constitutional and 
being illegal. Now there is a federal 
case that started hearing testimony 
this week from people affected by 
the policy, in order to judge which 
side of that divide the policy lies on.
To me, the policy has always 
been the epitome of our failing justice system; the fact that it is being 
contested and has a chance of being 
repealed is wonderful.
The stop-and-frisk policy, which 
the NYPD has been implementing 
for almost the entirety of New York 
City mayor Michael Bloombergs 
administration, is basically New 
Yorks interpretation of the Fourth 
Amendment. However, instead of 
needing probable cause to search 
someone in New York City, anyone 
can be stopped and searched if there 
is reasonable suspicion that something illegal is happening  looser 
wording that leads to more searches.
This policy, combined with the 
NYPDs quota system  20 summons and one arrest per month  is 
a bad idea because it forces police 
of?cers to see crimes where there 
might not be any in order to avoid 
being humiliated by other of?cers. 
More importantly, these policies 
create an air of suspicion and racial 
pro?ling. 
According to The New York 
Times, Hispanic and black men between the ages of 14 and 24 made 
up 41.6 percent of those stopped 
and frisked even though they only 
constitute 4.7 percent of the citys 
population. The pressure that the 
stop-and-frisk policy puts on police 
of?cers leads them to make stops 
and arrests that are usually baseless.
The quota system and stop-andfrisk policy dont even help ?ght 
crime, as Bloomberg and NYPD of?cers claim. We were handcuf?ng 
kids for no reason, said of?cer Adhyl Polanco of the NYPDs 41st Precinct in an article published in The 
New York Times. In the same article, 
Polanco talks about a time when his 
commander tried to ful?ll a quota by 
telling him to write a summons for 
a man without a dog license even 
though Polanko did not see the 
dog. When he confronted a lieutenant about it, he was stripped of his 
badge and gun and faced disciplinary proceedings.
The case against stop-and-frisk 
is a class action lawsuit that will be 
concerned speci?cally with the experiences of 11 black or biracial men 
and one Hispanic woman. However, 
it is representative of the numerous people who have been frisked 
by the city police without suspicion 
because of race. The lawsuit claims 
that the stop-and-frisk policy violates both the Fourth Amendments 
prohibition against unreasonable 
search and seizure and the Fourteenth Amendments equal protection clause.
Hopefully, this lawsuit draws the 
line and causes the discontinuation 
of these baseless frisks.
Satvika Neti (sneti@) is staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Time to put an end to 
stop-and-frisk policies
The pressure that 
the stop-and-frisk 
policy puts on 
police of?cers leads 
them to make stops 
and arrests that are 
usually baseless.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  March 25, 2013
SPORTS COMMENTARYMarch Madness de?ned by bracket-demolishing upsets
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
March Madness is the time 
of year when the sports world 
stops what its doing and focuses on college basketball for 
three weeks. Of?ce pools for 
the NCAA tournament destroy 
productivity and more employees can be found in bars than 
in cubicles watching a plethora 
of games involving teams no 
one has heard of, but that everyone suddenly has opinions 
about. This is the time of year 
when Cinderella underdogs 
steal the heart of the nation, 
except for the people whose 
brackets are ruined by an improbable upset.
This year has been no different. With competition at 
the highest its been in years, 
no real powerhouse team has 
dominated opponents and 
small unknowns have beaten 
the longstanding powerhouses 
during the regular season. The 
level playing ?eld has been apparent throughout the ?rst two 
days of the tournament.
After an uneventful ?rst 
round, the second round 
opened on Thursday, and the 
University of Pittsburgh Panthers were quickly sent home. 
Pitt, an 8 seed in the tournament, was dominated by 
Wichita State University, a 9 
seed. The game was a slug fest 
with the two teams combining 
to shoot only 337 from threepoint range and both teams 
averaging less that 40 percent 
from the ?eld.
Both 14 seed Davidson 
College and 16 seed Southern University came within a 
few minutes of overthrowing 
3 seed Marquette University 
and 1 seed Gonzaga University, respectively. Davidson 
led for most of the second half 
and had a chance to seal the 
deal with ?ve seconds left, but 
threw an errant pass out of 
bounds, allowing Marquette 
to make a quick game winning 
layup. Southern University 
took a brief lead in the ?rst half 
only to turn into a down by one 
situation after missing several 
shots in the last two minutes of 
the game.
The traditional 125 upsets 
continued with the University 
of Oregon beating Oklahoma 
State University and the University of California, Berkeley 
beating the University of Nevada, Las Vegas in a buzzer 
beater. Oregon exerted its 
dominance early, taking the 
lead for good half-way through 
the ?rst half. The game was not 
even close in the second half, 
with the Oregon lead slipping 
into double digits. California 
kept the game closer, but never 
trailed in the second half as 
they cruised to victory.
The real upset of the night 
came in one of the late games, 
with Ivy League champion and 
14 seed Harvard University 
defeating 3 seed University of 
New Mexico with relative ease. 
Harvard shot over 50 percent 
from the ?eld and 44 percent 
from three-point range.
Friday had many more upsets with 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 seeds 
all losing to double-digit seeded opponents. Fifteen seed 
Florida Gulf Coast University 
knocked off the perennial basketball powerhouse Georgetown University in impressive 
fashion. This was only the 
seventh time since the tournament expanded to its current 
64+ team format that so many 
upsets occurred; last year notable upsets included Lehigh 
University defeating Duke University, and Norfolk State University toppling the University 
of Missouri.
The 13 seed in the West 
Region, La Salle University, defeated the 4 seed Kansas State 
University, albeit in less convincing fashion than some of 
the other lower seeds. La Salle 
nearly choked, surrendering 
the lead late in the second half. 
They reclaimed the lead with 
30 seconds to play and barely 
held on through a missed Kansas State jump shot that would 
have given them the lead with 
less than 10 seconds left.
Five seed University of 
Wisconsin-Madison fell to the 
University of Mississippi, winner of the Southeastern Conference (SEC) tournament. 
Mississippi is home to March 
Madnesss most animated 
player, Marshall Henderson. 
Henderson became known 
for his on-court antics after 
Ole Miss ran through the SEC 
tournament to earn their spot 
in the NCAA tournament. His 
most infamous move is the 
Florida gator chop sign, which 
he created after taking the lead 
against University of Florida in 
the SEC tournament ?nals.
Eleven seed University of 
Minnesota never trailed in 
their game against the historic 
basketball program of University of California, Los Angeles. They did it with lights-out 
shooting, making over 50 percent from the ?oor and over 
56 percent from three-point 
range, ending the game with a 
20-point margin of victory.
Iowa State University 
rounded out the double digit 
team success with its win over 
7 seed University of Notre 
Dame. Iowa State scored early 
and quickly took control of the 
game, cruising to an 18-point 
victory.
As we go forward into the 
tournament, it appears that 
brackets will continue to get 
busted left and right. The upsets continued in the third 
round on Saturday, with ?rst 
seed Gonzaga falling victim 
to Wichita State, and Oregon 
continuing to play bracket 
buster, this time defeating 4 
seed St. Louis University.
This is the year of the unknown as parity reaches an alltime high in college basketball. 
While some of the traditional 
powers still remain (University of Louisville, University of 
Kansas, Indiana, Duke, Michigan State University), it seems 
just as likely that this years 
Final Four will likely consist 
of newcomers to elite college 
basketball.
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
Both the Carnegie Mellon 
mens and womens track 
and field teams headed to 
Lexington, Va. this past week 
to compete in the Virginia 
Military Institute-Washington and Lee University Track 
and Field Carnival at Washington and Lee University.
The Tartans had three 
impressive finishes for the 
women in the 5,000-meter 
event. Senior Emily Wobb 
finished third with a 17:57.96 
time, and sophomore Halley 
Bayer sprinted to finish with 
a time of 18:27.19, earning 
fourth place. Junior Elise 
Halls time of 18:44.09 gave 
the Tartans another top-10 
finish in the race, as Hall 
earned eighth place.
Junior Jacqueline Guevel 
had two outstanding finishes, earning second place in 
both the 100-meter hurdles 
with a time of 15:10 and 
400-meter hurdles with a 
time of 1:04.74.
Sophomore Erin Kiekhaefer also competed well in 
two events. In the 1500-meter race, she ran a 4:54.42 
time and earned sixth place 
and earned another seventh 
place win in the 800-meter 
run with a 2:21.82 time.
Finally, sophomore Sasha 
Spalding ran successfully in 
the heptathlon, placing fifth 
with a total of 3,763 points.
Members of the team are 
positive about the results of 
the various events. Overall 
as a team I believe we performed well, Spalding said 
via email. Even though the 
weather was not ideal everyone performed to the best of 
their abilities.
On the mens side, Thomas Vandenberg won the Tartans the only first-place victory of the event as he won 
the 800-meter race with an 
astonishing time of 1:53.31.
Senior Billy Littlefield 
crossed the finish line of 
the 10,000-meter run with 
a time of 32:38.20, earning 
third place.
Two Carnegie Mellon athletes placed in the 
hurdle events. Junior Mike 
Standish ran a 58.53 time in 
the 40-meter hurdles, and 
first-year Ben Neiman finished the 110-meter hurdles 
with a 16.21 time. Both athletes earned eighth place.
Junior Zachary Erra-Hernandez represented Carnegie Mellon well in the field 
events. 
In the hammer event, 
Erra-Hernandez was able to 
throw the hammer his career-best distance of 50.60 
meters. He also was able 
to throw the shot put a distance of 15.08 meters, earning fourth place, and the discus 42.45 meters, earning 
eighth place.
Junior Nathan Cheek also 
competed in the shot put 
and hammer events. Cheek 
threw the shot put 13.97 meters, leading to a sixth-place 
finish. Cheek also placed 
seventh in the hammer event 
with a 46.46-meter throw.
Tartan sophomore Gino 
Pilato was the other Carnegie Mellon athlete to place 
in the discus event. Pilato 
placed seventh with a throw 
of 42.69 meters.
Finally, first-year Max 
Reinertsen jumped an amazing 12.81 meters in the triple jump to earn seventh in 
the event.
With a solid showing at 
Washington and Lee, the 
team is confident. Its still 
very early in the season, 
Spalding said, but I believe with good training, the 
mens team should be able to 
win UAAs again, and hopefully the womens team can 
finish in the top three.
Both the mens and womens teams will next compete 
in the Carnegie Mellon MiniInvite on Saturday.
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Junior Staffwriter
The mens tennis team 
captured a major win against 
the 24th-ranked University 
of Mary Washington, beating 
the Eagles 72 at the Lakevue 
Athletic Club and improving 
the Tartans record to 83.
Carnegie Mellon initially 
suffered losses in two of three 
doubles games, creating momentum for the Eagles, but 
the Tartans soon recovered 
with a sweep of the six singles 
games. 
No. 1-seeded player Christian Heaney-Secord credited 
6-seed player Harsha Rao 
with carrying the team forward, praising him for winning a tough match when 
the team needed it. HeaneySecord praised the teams 
overall performance in crucial 
tiebreak points and attributed 
them to the strong singles 
play.
In addition to HeaneySecord and Rao, ?rst-years 
Abhishek Alla, Yuvraj Kumar, 
and Kosuke Hasegawa, and 
senior Duke Miller experienced crucial singles victories. 
The lone win from doubles 
play came from the team of 
Hasegawa and Kumar, demonstrating the importance of 
the young players to the mens 
tennis team.
Individually, the matches 
were very close. I may not 
have played the best, but I got 
the job done, Alla said via 
email. It was important [that 
I won] the third set.
Alla praised the Eagles, 
saying Mary Washington is a 
solid team. They have strong 
doubles pairs and solid singles. It was a good win for us.
Kumar credited the strong 
singles performances, saying 
The fact that there was a lot 
of energy and they wanted to 
come back after spring break 
was important, adding individually we did very well and 
 had a good comeback after 
spring break.
He continued, Its really going to help us with our 
ranking, and the momentum 
will help especially when 
were playing Johns Hopkins 
University and Kenyon College, a No. 2-ranked team, in 
the next couple weeks.
Moving forward, the team 
is facing two back-to-back 
games against Washington 
and Lee University and Johns 
Hopkins, ranked 23rd and 
eighth, respectively.
We need to start off early 
and get the lead after doubles 
 and we have to ?gure out 
a way to use our deep team 
to win every single match 
against top teams such as 
Hopkins or Kenyon, who have 
strong singles lineups, Alla 
said. The win against Mary 
Washington followed a streak 
of three painful losses, including an 81 shellacking by 
Trinity University.
The team has high hopes to 
?nish off the season. HeaneySecord said, I want us to 
make the NCAA tournament, 
since last year we missed it 
and it was very tough for the 
team.
Track and ?eld teams make strides at Washington and Lee
Mens tennis team defeats Eagles in ?erce competition
File photo by Alan Vangpat/Senior Photographer
The Tartans competed in the shotput event at the ?rst meet of the 2012 season. This weekend, the Tartans 
headed to Lexington, Va. for the Washington and Lee Track and Field Carnival.
File photo by Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
The Tartan mens tennis team faced the University of Mary Washington 
Eagles last Saturday at home at the Lakevue Athletic Club.
WRITE FOR SPORTS!sports@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

International Film Festival 
This years event explores the many roles 
of media in our lives  B5
03.25.13 Volume 107, Issue 21
GREEK SING

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Read the comics for hilarious observations on 
topics ranging from the weather to duck faces.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films takes you to Middle Earth this 
weekend.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Alex Webster
8
34610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about fireworks 
and breaking out the dance moves.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Opera
School of Music vocalists put on an impressive 
and entertaining performance.
3
Phipps
The conservatory presents a captivating, 
colorful spring flower show.
4
Film festival
The International Film Festival sparks 
discussions surrounding the Faces of Media.
5
SXSW
South by Southwest exposes listeners to new 
artists and sounds.
6
Trust
The Toronto-based synthpop duo gives a solid 
performance at brillobox.
7
Greek Sing
The Greek community raised over $74,000 for 
the Childrens Institute of Pittsburgh this year.
8
What We Collect
The Hunt Botanical Institute displays recent 
additions to its art department in Hunt Library.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that a first-year fell into the 
Engineering and Science Library 10 years ago?
10
Puzzles
This weeks Kakuro is so easy that a monkey 
could solve it.
13
Horoscopes
This weeks horoscopes tell it like it is.14
Calendar
Check out this weeks calendar for onand offcampus events.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 03.25.133
Vocalists perform vibrant show
The School of Music presents opera scenes showcase
When we think of opera, we usually picture a large 
soprano in a Viking helmet belting a high, quavering 
note. Its perhaps not the most flattering image, 
and, unfortunately, many people have negative 
associations with opera as a genre. But the School of 
Musics performance of Lovers & Dreams: An Opera 
Scenes Showcase last Thursday and Friday showed 
that, far from being boring or inaccessible, opera can 
be wildly entertaining.
The showcase was held in the small Rauh Black Box 
Theatre in the Purnell Center for the Arts, making for 
a simple and intimate venue. Instead of a stage, the 
vocalists performed on black platforms that held very 
few props; only a desk, a stone bench, and a few 
potted flower plants lined the edges of the theater.
The brevity and variety of the performances kept the 
audiences rapt attention throughout the program. 
Each five-minute piece was enough to show an 
impressive amount of talent  often exploring 
nearly every note of the vocalists range  but 
short enough to keep the program moving at an 
entertaining pace.
Interspersed between performances was playful 
commentary by many of the vocalists who 
performed. Though somewhat cutesy and clearly 
scripted, their remarks helped to give context to 
each of the pieces  something that School of 
Music shows oftentimes lack.
The showcase presented a unique challenge for the 
vocalists, performing in a genre that probes and 
tests the human voice, laying bare every strength 
and weakness a singer might have. In this case, the 
strengths were many and the weaknesses were few. 
Although all of the individual performances were 
impressive, some of the voices were perfectly suited 
to the pieces they performed. Though not quite as 
powerful as some of her peers, senior voice major 
Samantha Sugarman delivered a beautiful rendition 
of Mir ist die Ehre widerfahren from Richard 
Strauss Der Rosenkavalier with her sweet vibrato 
and impressively high range. At the end of the 
program, senior voice major Ashlinn Dowling gave 
a powerful performance as Butterfly in Tutti i fior? 
from Puccinis Madama Butterfly, filling the entire 
theater with her strong, resonating voice.
Although the solo performances were all excellent 
showcases of individual talent, the group 
performances unquestionably stole the show. 
Perhaps the highlight of the entire eight-part 
program was Nous avons en tte une affaire, 
a boisterous scene from George Bizets Carmen 
featuring junior voice majors Mariko Reid, Chloe 
Holgate, Richard Wood, and Scott Cuva, and 
fifth-year senior English and voice double major 
Stephanie Johnson.
Although (understandably) breathless at times, each 
vocalist in this act delivered rapid, complex musical 
phrases in speedy succession  and in French, 
no less. In addition to impressive vocal talent, the 
performance was also exuberantly acted and elicited 
cries of laughter and shock as the characters began 
plunging knives into each other at the end of the 
piece.
From vibrant acting to jaw-dropping vocal talent, 
Lovers & Dreams: An Opera Scenes Showcase 
certainly had a lot to showcase. Not only were the 
performers talent and dedication apparent, but 
their enjoyment and passion were also contagious, 
resulting in a program that could sway even the 
most skeptical opera critic.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
On the way back from my 
spring break road trip, 
I bought some legal 
fireworks. Nothing too 
crazy  just some M-80s 
and Roman candles they 
were selling behind a gas 
station in Tennessee at 
4 a.m. How can I make 
the best use of these? I 
would prefer to keep all 
my fingers and stay out of 
jail, so keep that in mind.
Thanks,
Freely Igniting Rogue 
Explosives, Careful, 
Rockets Are Cool, Kids 
Enjoy Detonations
Dear FIRECRACKED,
Nothing lights up a young 
mans heart more than 
fireworks. Not fame, fortune, 
or a sidelong glance from a 
lovely lady. No, that rockets 
red glare as it burst in the 
sky reminds you that this 
is America: Our national 
anthem has explosions and 
so should our daily lives! You 
can pry my cherry bombs 
out of my cold, dead hands, 
Obama!
Though it may seem like a 
fun and hilarious mix, you 
should keep fireworks and 
alcohol away from each 
other. Sure, alcohol makes 
everything better, but you 
probably want to be thinking 
straight when you play with 
explosives. Before you 
do anything, just think to 
yourself, Does this sound 
like the first half of a Darwin 
Award nomination? 
Be sure to put it on 
YouTube too,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
A while ago, you wrote 
about your amazing 
dance moves. I added 
them into my rotation, 
but women have not 
yet started throwing 
themselves at me. Are 
your dance moves all 
theyre chalked up to be? 
If women arent throwing 
themselves at me, how 
am I supposed to dance 
with them? And dont say 
something crazy like walk 
up to them.
Thanks,
Shimmying Obnoxiously 
Lonely, Other 
Temptresses Avoid, Need 
Gamboling Opinions
Dear SOLO TANGO,
Hold your horses right there, 
bucko. Dont go throwing 
blame on my famous 
dance moves, renowned 
throughout multiple states. 
Clearly you are not dancing 
properly. How much are you 
waving your arms around? 
If the answers not a lot, 
youre doing it wrong. You 
should stop just short of 
punching your neighbors 
in the face. Nothing rocks 
harder than an epileptic fit.
If the women are somehow 
resisting your amazing 
moves, which I must stress 
is impossible, then you may 
have to show some initiative. 
Once youve got peoples 
attention, you can show 
them how you trip the light 
fantastic.
Just dont actually trip,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About fireworks and dancing
Jennifer Coloma | Publisher

---------------------------------------------------

4community
pillbox 03.25.13
Combining the whimsy of Frances Hodgson Burnetts 
The Secret Garden and the powerful punch of a colorful 
?ower at the end of a dreary Pennsylvania winter, the 
Phipps Conservatorys annual spring ?ower show once 
again exceeds expectations.
The show, named after the book upon which it is based, 
is arguably the most celebrated event the Conservatory 
puts on throughout the year, attracting more amateur 
photographers than the butter?y garden does 
caterpillars. From the moment visitors enter through 
the glass doors, nods to the classic story are sprinkled 
throughout the exhibit, which spans the entire premises.
The jewel-colored tulips and white-picket fences that 
?rst greet viewers set the tone for the exhibit: magical, 
old-fashioned, and sweet. In stark contrast to the dreary 
weather Pittsburgh seems to be cursed with, the show 
is a breath of fresh air. Filled with ?owers of every 
imaginable color that were traditionally found in gardens 
of Victorian England, the garden beds also incorporate 
winding stone paths and charming statues.
Signs in each room explain the connections between 
the ?ora and the literature. Though the ties to the book 
could have been stronger and better explained, the effort 
is there, and Phipps never fails to wow visitors with the 
simple beauty and ?awless execution of its exhibits.
The centerpiece of the exhibit is the Wild Garden portion 
of the Secret Garden. Ferns line the window boxes, 
tulips bloom cheerfully, lilac-colored blossoms whisper 
of a magical concept called spring, and rocks wind their 
way to a pond.
Though the Wild Gardens layout was clearly intended 
to be the standout room in the exhibit, the Riotous 
Victorian Pattern Garden in the main alcove stole the 
show. The garden is fashioned in a bold pattern that 
includes bursts of orange, yellow, and red ?owers, 
green foliage, and the stark white of pebble paths. At 
the center is a sophisticated fountain with a Romanticrevival statue. The stately palms guarding the corners 
of the brick walk only further the image of Victorian 
perfection. This room in particular is so stunning 
because of how well it goes with the architecture of the 
Conservatory. Somehow, the light streaming through 
the white glass panes and domed ceilings manage to 
complete the vision of travelling back in time.
The exhibit is fabulously colorful, exciting, and 
deliciously serene at the same time. The sign in the Wild 
Garden brags that the mystery surrounding the garden 
was one of its greatest charms.
The mystery of how Phipps manages to produce mindblowing shows that enchant visitors of all ages is indeed 
one of its greatest charms. And thank Mother Nature for 
it, because after a seemingly endless winter, goodness 
knows that Pittsburgh could use a Secret Garden of its 
own.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager
The Secret Garden displays a variety of vibrant flora, 
such as this daylily.
Phipps presents stunning ?oral display
The Secret Garden raises conservatorys standard of charming and vibrant exhibits
The Sunken Garden room hosts one of the many charming and well-executed displays that comprise Phipps 
Conservatorys recently opened annual spring flower show, entitled The Secret Garden. 
Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

community 
pillbox 03.25.135
Film festival explores Faces of Media
Collaborative Carnegie Mellon event offers international ?lms, discussion, camaraderie
The Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival opened 
last Thursday at the Melwood Screening Room. Walking 
into the Melwood Screening Room was like walking 
into a room ?lled with small treasures: You could feel 
the memories of old, obscure movies screened in the 
past. There was a small concession stand surrounded 
by classic Hitchcock posters that evoked an intimate 
surrounding and a love for cinema. It was the perfect 
venue for the festival.
This years theme is Faces of Media, a central part 
of our everyday culture. Each year, we try to explore 
a different theme that is all around us, even though 
we may not always be fully aware of its critical 
importance.Media seemed like a great direction to go 
in this year, as smartphones and social media are greatly 
impacting local and global societies, said senior history 
major and festival intern Sara Faradji.
On its opening night, the ?lm festival kicked off with 
world-renowned ?lmmaker Michel Gondrys The We 
and The I. Set in the present-day Bronx, the ?lm centers 
on high school students on their last day of school. 
However, instead of focusing on their pre-summer 
festivities, the ?lm takes place on a bus with all of the 
students eagerly on their way back to their homes. I was 
expecting it to be claustrophobic and constrained, but it 
was instead ?lled with spunk and endless energy.
The ?lm left some with mixed impressions: Was it 
brilliant or was it too rushed? Regardless, viewers 
became hooked on the characters and their stories: 
When the bus ?nally reached its last stop, its safe to 
say that everyone in the screening room was sad to 
see the last of the teenage passengers depart from the 
bus. It was like a Bronx edition of The Magic School 
Bus  except with more heart and the feeling that 
youre actually a quiet observer on the bus rather than 
an audience member. Viewers were able to relate to the 
ways in which these teenagers connected to each other, 
especially in todays media-heavy world.
You couldnt expect anything less from Gondry, whose 
?lmography boasts such vivid works as Eternal Sunshine 
of the Spotless Mind and Be Kind Rewind. The ?lm 
did not exaggerate the use of media; rather, it melded 
media into each of the students lives. As a result, we 
could truly identify with and feel the impacts of media 
and instant communication on a personal and grand 
scale. That feeling was quite powerful and heightened 
anticipation for the upcoming ?lms in the festival and 
how these ?lms will embrace the role of the media in our 
world today.
After the screening of the ?lm, there were bounties of 
small French delicacies such as quiche and macaroons 
 carefully themed after Gondrys French nationality. 
There were, of course, beverages, which made for an 
even more entertaining night. With stomachs ?lling with 
bread, cheese, and red wine, viewers were able to enjoy 
some great conversations about the ?lm, which led to an 
atmosphere of genuine camaraderie.
The ?lm festival also featured Paul Goodmans Faces 
of Work as a tribute to the ?lmmaker, world-renowned 
psychologist, and Carnegie Mellon professor who passed 
away last year. Four of Goodmans short ?lms will 
accompany seven of this years ?lms that connect to the 
theme of media and work. Goodman made ?lms about 
how media have impacted peoples work around the 
world. His proli?c ?lmography inspired the directors of 
the festival to feature his short ?lms before the featurelength ?lm of the night.
Another of Goodmans contributions was his 
collaborative spirit, which had de?nitely made its mark 
on the festival. One of Goodmans passions was to 
engage all parts of Carnegie Mellon, and this year we 
really feel that this is true, Faradji said. Professors 
from various departments at Carnegie Mellon are 
collaborating with some of the professional ?lmmakers 
to support this years festival, along with professors from 
the University of Pittsburgh, the Art Institute, Point Park 
University, and Robert Morris University.
With the incredible support and collaboration from 
such diverse sources, the ?lm festival has been able 
to organize post-screening Q & A sessions, ?lmmaker 
workshops, and even lectures corresponding to certain 
courses at Carnegie Mellon. Scott Hamilton and Petr 
Lom are two of the featured ?lmmakers who will be 
offering such workshops to the community. Faradji 
added that by working with professors, we hope that 
students from all different schools and departments will 
have the opportunity to see compelling international 
?lms and learn more about global cultures. It is as though 
the ?lms serve as new and fascinating course texts.
Looking ahead, another way that the ?lm festival is 
engaging the community beyond Carnegie Mellon is its 
Student Short Film Competition, which will screen ?lms 
by rising students from all universities. To connect with 
this years theme of media, competing students must 
address media and their global impact.
The Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival runs 
through April 13 and is a great chance for students 
to see what experiences ?lm and media have to offer. 
You cant say no to a compelling ?lm  or to the 
complimentary food and wine.
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
Students sell festival tickets outside McConomy 
Auditorium, wearing T-shirts announcing this years 
theme, Faces of Media.
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

6music
pillbox 03.25.13
One hundred venues, 2,200 performers, 20,000 
attendees: The scope of South by Southwest (SXSW) is 
massive, drawing multitudes of hip twentysomething 
musicians, ?lmmakers, and partygoers to Austin, Texas 
every spring. Since its advent in 1987, it has continued 
to grow in size; music is typically one of the more 
popular aspects of the festival, with shows running 
concurrently for six of the 21 days of the festival.
Though the music portion spans a variety of genres, 
I was drawn primarily to the electronic showcases. 
The festivals diversity makes it an excellent forum for 
discovering new artists. These were two of the most 
notable shows that I saw, and I will certainly keep track 
of these artists.
Andy Stott
Andy Stott has always been a stylistically agile artist. 
His performance at Resident Advisors of?cial showcase 
on March 13 was a dark and dubby representation of 
his techno-in?ected approach, displaying much of his 
more recent remixes and Luxury Problems releases. 
Lo-? production and dirge-like rhythms chugged along 
somewhere in the 100 BPM region, incorporating odd 
elements of existential dread that recalled old Joy 
Division records.
For those unfamiliar with Stotts work, it is haunting 
and atmospheric. His 2012 album Luxury Problems is 
laced with vocals from his old piano teacher, Alison 
Skidmore. In equal parts mournful and seductive  
sometimes even operatic  she gives his music a sexy 
and haunting feel; her lyrics and Stotts applications 
of reverb and delay made his performance particularly 
wistful. While his melodic layering and deep basslines 
may not suit everyone, those interested in techno (and 
experimental electronic music in particular) would be 
taken in by his live interpretations of his own work.
To fully appreciate Stott, its crucial to have subwoofers 
or a good pair of headphones cranked up to 11. The 
venue, Elysium, was perfectly suited to the artists 
visceral bass lines, and I was only able to gather a better 
understanding of his music by being immersed in that 
environment. That being said, regular listeners and 
newcomers to the experimental techno scene should still 
give him a shot.
Flying Lotus
Flanked by sheer monitors, the L.A.-based electronic 
artist Flying Lotus (also known as Stephen Ellison) made 
his presence just one part of the spectacle by projecting 
trippy images onto overlapping screens. The next 90 
minutes were ?lled with transitions and layer blending 
that would enthrall any EDM fan, and most individuals 
in the audience will likely remember his selection of 
curative audio and choice samples (including Beastie 
Boys Intergalactic and his own Astral Plane).
The driving force of psychedelic emotion that Ellison 
evoked in his performance was largely due to his sample 
choice and manipulation. Like Amon Tobin, FlyLo  
as his fans call him  is capable of recontextualizing 
samples in creative and distinctive ways, often 
producing entirely new instrumentals by rearranging 
existing musical parts. All the Secrets from Until 
the Quiet Comes, for example, does an excellent job 
of subtly altering piano melodies to bring about more 
dream-like, abstract themes. These themes are echoed 
in Thundercats vocals in DMT Song (with an obvious 
nod to the psychedelic drug of the same name). Though 
numerous overlapping patterns saturate his songs, he 
has a penchant for using a number of samples and vocals 
without cluttering his arrangements.
Graceful, humble, and enthused, FlyLo ?nished his set 
in a way that many did not expect: calmly. There was no 
?nal drop, no loud explosions of confetti or laser lights, 
and no gratuitous into-the-mic shouting matches. If 
anyone understands the ?ow and energy of a show, it is 
FlyLo: He knew that the audience had just danced itself 
into exhaustion for two hours. Lulling listeners back 
into a relaxed state (as he is known for with his Adult 
Swim-produced beats and bumps), Ellison left the stage 
to the chants of One more song! and faded into the 
background, letting the audience re?ect back on what 
they had just experienced.
SXSW was both an opportunity to harvest a deeper 
understanding of familiar music and a unique chance 
to experience genres beyond ones comfort zone. I 
recommend following SXSW blogs to discover more 
about the showcased musicians and attending the 
festival next year, if youre able.
Chloe Lula | Staffwriter
SXSW exposes listeners to new sounds
Annual music festival encourages music lovers to branch out from familiar artists
Courtesy of WRCT and Peter Leeman | Junior Photographer 
Among the musicians featured at the festival was 
Tampa-based band Merchandise, which performed at 
the Viceland showcase hosted by Vice magazine.

---------------------------------------------------

Driving beats, dark vocals, and disorienting fog ?lled 
Bloom?eld music venue brillobox last Tuesday for a 
concert by synthpop duo Trust.
A Toronto-based duo comprised of singer Robert Alfons 
and drummer Maya Postepski (of pop group Austra), 
Trust performed on Tuesday with a third performing 
member on the keyboard. The group formed in 2009 and 
released its debut LP TRST in February 2012, receiving 
generally positive reviews.
Trust relies on goth and post-punk in?uences to create 
a heavier sound than the genre tag synthpop might 
suggest. With deep, nasally vocals and relentless beats, 
Trusts music carries a super?cial aura of darkness  
reminiscent of 90s synth groups and current bands like 
Crystal Castles  and creates a faint feeling of nostalgia 
in the listener, though for what is unclear.
Brooklyn-based rock band Eraas and Pittsburgh-based 
synthpop group Ennui opened for Trust, though most of 
the audience didnt show up until just before Trusts set. 
The crowd  made up entirely of hip twentysomethings 
 was enthusiastic; there were lots of applause and 
verbal af?rmations of enjoyment, despite a surprising 
lack of dancing. The shift from light head-bobbing to 
more involved movement happened only during Trusts 
most popular songs, like Bulbform, Heaven, F.T.F., 
and Sulk.
The show at brillobox on Tuesday was both a visually 
and aurally immersive experience. A fog machine was 
blowing throughout the show, and the drummer and 
keyboardist were in sync with a strobe light, making it 
easy to get lost in the show. Colored lights lit the stage 
from behind, creating a disorienting silhouetted effect; 
the black outline of lead singer Alfons hopped around the 
front of the stage throughout the set, but that was really 
all you could see from the dance ?oor.
Trust opened the show with crowd-favorite Shoom  a 
sprawling song that combines every great element of the 
group into ?ve-and-a-half minutes you wish would never 
end  and played nearly every other song from their 
debut album, coming back on stage for a single-song 
encore after their set. The music translated well into a 
live set, but the show lacked some of the energy and 
depth of the album. The balance seemed off during part 
of the show, with low vocals and overpowering beats. 
Alfons deep, brooding voice  a de?ning characteristic 
off the bands songs  sounded ?ne live, though less 
clean than on the album, which perhaps contributed to 
the shows lack of energy.
With just one album and a few singles out to date, the 
show could have been a dud, with nothing new brought 
to the table. But the immersive visuals and the quality 
of the live instrumentation and vocals made the show a 
success. In all, it was a night of great performances, and 
Trust certainly lived up to the hype theyve been riding 
on for over a year.
Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Trust puts on immersive performance
Toronto-based synthpop duo lives up to critical acclaim despite lack of new material
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
The Hobbit is Peter Jacksons long-awaited return to Tolkiens Middle Earth. He has a 
solid cast, some returning members, and his reliably beautiful cinematography  but 
why such a God-awful movie? Of course, the ?rst reason is that it favors technology 
over narrative. The discussion surrounding the ?lm is never about Bilbo; its about 
the brilliant CGI and 48FPS projection rate. Though I appreciate the goo?ness of the 
opening (so much singing and plate tossing), the injection of comic timing courtesy of 
Martin Freeman, and the somewhat more prevalent levity, theres only so many deus 
ex machina I can take: Gandalf apparently can stomp his staff and cause everyone 
in the room to fall down. Those endless swirling helicopter shots of people crossing 
mountains have returned, and its impossible for me not to giggle at (subtitled) orcs 
furious at elvish ?lth and dwar?sh scum. Its ultimately patience-testing and not 
nearly as thrilling as intended. But you can go for the special effects. 
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey 
Friday, March 29
7 10:30
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Rings
Saturday, March 30
7 10:30
Jacksons take on the Shire is considerably more happy-go-lucky than Tolkien fans 
might expect; the ?reworks are grand, but life for the Hobbits is strangely akin to 
an Irish jig. Despite the Shires exaggerated sense of joy and normalcy, Jackson 
has stunningly authenticated Tolkiens mythic landscape. Blue waters wash against 
?owery green pastures. There is a sense of belonging here, as if weve ?nally 
stumbled across that old friend weve only seen in dreams and read about in the 
thumb-worn pages of Tolkiens novels. At three hours, Fellowship of the Ring soars, 
its pitfalls miniscule when compared to the jaw-dropping splendor of its remarkable 
set pieces. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring stars Elijah Wood, Ian 
McKellan, and a host of other spectacular supporting players. It is the ?nest entry into 
the trilogy and is not to be missed.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center
music
pillbox 03.25.137

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 03.25.1398feature
pillbox 03.25.13
Greek organizations on campus came together last 
Saturday night to perform a series of 13-minute musical 
skits, both as a fundraiser for the Childrens Institute 
of Pittsburgh and as a celebration of their hard work 
this semester. The most successful acts took one of two 
approaches: Some fraternities and sororities poured their 
hearts and souls into putting on a crisp and professional 
performance, while others walked into Greek Sing 
knowing that they had a limited time span to put on 
something kitschy and funny.
The best example of the latter, more comedic approach, 
was Sigma Alpha Epsilons Law and Order: Special 
Victims Bluenit. This skit told the harrowing tale of Steve 
Burns, his dog Blue, and a crime-solving kindergartner 
named Trevor in their quest to ?nd the dog Magenta. 
Through the discovery of three vital clues, the trio 
eventually discovers that Magenta was kidnapped 
by a bar of soap, because she was dirty and needed a 
bath. Highlights included a hard-bitten police chief and 
a parody of The Lion Kings Can You Feel The Love 
Tonight, entitled Can You Feel the Suds Tonight.
Clearly, the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon had a 
great time putting this show together; the set consisted 
entirely of frat boys wearing cardboard cutouts of 
trees and boulders, rolling or crawling across the stage 
to show when Steve was moving. The kindergarten 
character who made potty-humor jokes, such as how 
he was still in need of diapers, was overdone, but Blues 
sarcastic cynicism was highly entertaining.
Special Victims Bluenit worked because it didnt try to 
be something it wasnt. The fraternity rolled with the 
slight slapdash feel of the performance and managed 
to create something really funny. Clearly, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon was well prepared, but they emphasized the 
humor and playfulness that are such an integral part of 
Greek Sing.
On the other end of the spectrum, Delta Gamma and Pi 
Kappa Alphas rendition of Rock of Ages put on a nearprofessional show. The skit was an abridged version 
of the Broadway musical and told the tale of Sherrie, a 
young girl who wants to be a rock star in Los Angeles, 
and The Bourbon Room, a bar on the verge of being shut 
down. In an attempt to salvage his business, the bars 
owner hosts a concert for the famous Stacee Jaxx, but 
the rock stars performance draws the ire of the mayors 
wife, Patricia Whitmore.
The sets were not overly complex, but the costumes 
were bright and eye catching. Members of both Delta 
Gamma and Pi Kappa Alpha threw themselves into their 
performance with an energy that lit up the room. Beyond 
even their clear passion, they performed with precision 
and care, resulting in a skit that was overall clean, crisp, 
and fantastic.
One show that walked the line between these two 
approaches was Alpha Phi and Alpha Epsilon Pis 
production of Rent. This skit was not merely an abridged 
version of the Broadway musical, but a parody of it, 
focusing on the struggles of Roger, Mark, and Mimi as 
they attempt to save Blockbuster from closing. Benny, 
the owner of Net?ix and Mimis father, unfortunately 
thwarted that goal.
Alpha Phi and Alpha Epsilon Pi altered the lyrics of a 
classic musical just enough to be hilarious, without 
awkwardly clashing with the original songs. Take 
Me or Leave Me became a con?ict between Benny, a 
proponent of Net?ix, and Mimi, a lover of Blockbuster. 
Goodbye Love became a farewell to Blockbuster, while 
Seasons of Love was about the amount of time the 
characters had spent watching Blockbuster videos over 
the years. This skit effortlessly turned a deeply emotional 
musical into a funny, lighthearted sketch. This rendition 
Greek Sing is a musical, philanthropic success
Greek organizations surpass philanthropy goal, perform professional, entertaining skits
Members of Delta Gamma and Pi Kappa Alpha presented their highly professional rendition of Rock of Ages, which won first place in the doubles division.
                  Alex Webster | Staff Photographer
by Chloe Thompson | Personnel Manager[]
of Rent was a high-quality skit, but it retained the air of 
ridiculousness and fun that characterizes Greek Sing.
However, Greek Sing is more than just a performance 
from fraternities and sororities; the event is the 
culmination of a huge effort to fundraise for the 
Childrens Institute of Pittsburgh. After the performances 
concluded, a representative of the Institute showed a 
brief video of a student, a young boy named Noah. The 
audience held a near-imperceptible air of impatience 
before the video began; the past two hours had been 
entertaining, but long, and everyone was hungry.
But the video was an important reminder of the 
importance of the efforts of the Greek organizations, and 
an example of the importance and impact of charity. The 
video let the audience see a particular person whose 
life was greatly improved by the efforts of the Childrens 
Institute. However, sophomore civil and environmental 
engineering major Michelle Coust said, I would have 
liked a more detailed look at all the different things [the 
Childrens Institute] does or even heard from the kids 
themselves more... Hearing from the mother that the 
school changed her kids life is encouraging, but hearing 
from the kid himself just warms your heart.
Though everyone was enthusiastic during the 
performances and the Childrens Institutes video, 
the most intense energy of the evening came during 
the awards ceremony. Most audience members who 
were not af?liated with a Greek organization sat in 
the upper balconies, while the fraternity and sorority 
members themselves ?lled the ground ?oor. This seating 
arrangement created an odd sensation in the upper 
levels of the audience; the relatively calm audience 
members looked down on the mass of Greek members 
as they howled with excitement and approval at the 
awards. Alpha Epsilon Phi and Pi Kappa Alpha split the 
Chairmens Choice Award, while Sigma Phi Epsilon 
won the Fraternity Philanthropy Award. Delta Gamma 
won the Sorority Philanthropy Award, after raising over 
$12,000. Delta Delta Delta came in second, raising over 
$10,000.
The initial goal of these fundraising efforts was $150,000 
over the course of four years, all for the Childrens 
Institute. In the ?rst year, Greek organizations raised 
$42,000, with $55,000 fundraised in the second. This 
year, their goal was $60,000. They actually raised 
$74,000, which put them at $171,000, well above their 
initial goal. Junior psychology major Caroline Flowers, 
the Greek Sing Overall Chair from Delta Delta Delta, said 
via email that Greek Sings support of the Childrens 
Institute will continue for the fourth and ?nal year of their 
commitment. Although we have already met our goal, 
we are thrilled to be able to support them for at least one 
more year, Flowers said.
In terms of performance awards, the teams were divided 
into two categories. The singles division consisted of 
fraternities that had performed alone, and the doubles 
division consisted of paired fraternities and sororities. 
For singles, Sigma Alpha Epsilon (Special Victims 
Bluenit), came in ?rst, with Phi Delta Theta in second 
and Delta Upsilon in third. In doubles, Delta Gamma 
and Pi Kappa Alpha (Rock of Ages) came in ?rst, Kappa 
Alpha Theta and Delta Tau Delta came in second, and 
Delta Delta Delta and Kappa Sigma came in third. The 
competition was a close one, and Flowers said, This 
years shows were some of the highest quality weve 
seen since Ive been in school.... each show we saw this 
year was de?nitely successful.
Though this show was open to the public, the main 
focus of the evening was the Greek community. Greek 
Sing celebrated the intense fundraising efforts of all of 
the Greek organizations on campus and the work put 
into producing the performance itself. Saturdays show 
may have been the work of mere college students, but 
the members of the fraternities and sororities gave it 
their most creative and professional efforts.
 Alex Webster | Staff Photographer
Greek Sing Overall Chair and emcee Molly Shanley excitedly announced the $74,203.31 total that Greek 
organizations raised for the Childrens Institute of Pittsburgh this year.
 Alex Webster | Staff Photographer
The brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon performed a comedic musical skit titled Law & Order: Special Victims 
Bluenit, which won first place in the singles division.

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 03.25.13
As one would expect from the title, What We Collect: 
Recent Art Acquisitions 20072012 features artwork 
acquired by the Hunt Institutes art department. 
The exhibit, which opened last Friday at the Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documentation on the ?fth 
?oor of Hunt Library, is the accumulation of art 
dating back to the 1800s, making for a unique 
environment with a quaint feel. While some may 
ask, Who would want to see pictures of plants? 
the charm of the exhibit stems from the individual 
perspectives of the plants that each artist expresses.
Speaking of the artists, there are a plethora of 
them featured at the exhibit, making it enjoyable 
for a wider variety of people. Such artists include 
Pancrace Bessa, whose works were featured 
at the library four years ago in his own exhibit, 
called Pancrace Bessa and the Golden Age of 
French Botanical Illustration. Bessa was a French 
natural history artist whose botanical illustrations 
are characteristically detailed, probably a result 
of his years as a student of engraver Gerard van 
Spaendonck. His realistic illustrations of fruit 
and ?owers transport the viewer to a garden or 
countryside abounding with beautiful ?ora.
Another 19th-century artist whose works are 
displayed at the exhibit is James Sowerby. An 
English naturalist and illustrator, Sowerby made 
illustrations that, upon ?rst glance, look quite similar 
to those that Bessa produced. However, further 
examination shows that Sowerbys style appears 
less realistic, though just as beautiful. While his 
older works were reminiscent of an old English 
countryside, his newer, more modern pieces of art 
have somewhat of a different feel.
One of the more contemporary artists whose work 
seems similar to those of Bessa and Sowerby is 
Beverly Duncan. Though her art also portrays a hint 
of the old-time feel that the other illustrations have, 
one views them differently knowing that they are 
newer. In fact, Duncans paintings reminds one of a 
kitchen, which is not necessarily a bad thing. Her 
paintings were mainly watercolor on vellum, an 
interesting combination that ?t well into the theme 
of the variety of media.
The exhibit could be described as quaint, historical, 
and varied because it features so many different 
artistic methods. These ranged from watercolor on 
vellum, as in Duncans work, to charcoal drawing, 
even to wood engravings and copper etching. Not 
only were there detailed images of plants, such 
as those done by Bessa and Sowerby, but also 
seemingly accurate cross-sections of plants featured 
at the exhibit. The What We Collect exhibit is 
educational as well: One can learn how the history 
of peoples views of plants have changed and grown 
more intricate over time through the old and modern 
?eld guides and textbooks included in the exhibit.
This exhibit is open to the public and is free of 
charge. If you ever feel like taking a break from 
studying while at the library, or have an interest in 
artwork relating to nature, check out the exhibit for a 
truly unique experience.
Nikita Mishra | Junior Staffwriter 
Hunt presents quaint exhibit
What We Collect displays intricate engravings, drawings
What We Collect: Recent Art Acquisitions 20072012 showcases intricate botanical illustrations. 
Haley Bryant | Junior Photographer
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Feb. 27, 1913
The Third Year Night Science Class 
held a swimming party last week. After 
members complained of being too 
tired for sports on the weekend, the 
group met at the bowling alley for its 
weekend fun. Afterward, they spotted 
a sign nearby saying Eat, and the 
night ended with good food and good 
company.
50years ago
March 20, 1963
Pittsburgh Police has decided to step 
up its monitoring and punishment of 
illegal parking around Schenley Park. 
Previously, cars were tagged and 
ticketed for illegal parking in the area, 
but the new policy will have cars towed 
away immediately if they are found 
illegally parked anywhere near the 
park.
25years ago
March 15, 1988
Pittsburgh Police had a busy week. 
It issued a state citation to a buggy 
participant who did not cooperate 
when an ambulance had to drive 
through the buggy course during push 
practice. A fire was also started in MI 
143, and the police suspect arson.
10years ago
March 17, 2003
A 15-year-old first-year student fell 
backward into the Engineering & 
Science Library while outside Wean 
Hall. She fell back and through 
the skylight above the library, hit a 
bookshelf, and landed on the library 
floor. She was released from the 
hospital on the same day with only a 
scratch on her finger.
5years ago
March 24, 2008
In 2002, the Princeton Review ranked 
Carnegie Mellon as the most politically 
apathetic college or university in the 
entire country. With the Pennsylvania 
primaries quickly approaching, 
students are proud to have shed 
the six-year-old image of political 
indifference. 
1year ago
March 26, 2012
Sex educators Rachel Dart and 
Marshall Miller speak to a full Doherty 
lecture hall about the female orgasm. 
Sponsored by the new student group 
Ms. CMU, which focuses on womens 
issues, the talk was entitled I <3 
FEMALE ORGASM and was an open, 
interactive conversation.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 03.25.1311
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew.cmu.educrinkledcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 03.25.13
Sittin on the Fence by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
jorge@phdcomics.comphdcomics.com
Hark! A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comharkavagrant.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 03.25.1313
Solutions from Mar. 4
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 03.25.13
1. Greek portico
2. Desire
3. Jump on the ice
4. Long-necked ruminant
5. Mail-related
6. Girder
7. Fabled bird
8. Devices for fishing
9. Italian sausage
10. Erin
11. Oscar winner Patricia
12. Canadian gas brand
13. Simmer
21. People and places, e.g.
23. Is wearing
25. Shouting
27. Yoga posture
28. Split radially
29. Step
31. Take ___ from me
32. So spooky as to be frightening
33. Prophets
34. Spread out
36. Up to it
40. Magazine copy
41. Some Celts
44. Inhibit
47. Inert monatomic gaseous element
49. Night flight
50. Sacred place
53. Stadium used for sports or musical 
events
54. Hairless
55. Plains native
56. Give ___ for ones money
57. Diamond stats
59. Architect Saarinen
60. Bamboo stem
61. Very, in Versailles
64. Business mag
1. Festoon
5. Fishing reel
9. Trig functions
14. Cab
15. Its blown among the reeds
16. Give it ___!
17. Doozy
18. Religious offshoot
19. Flat contract
20. Capital of Georgia
22. Lacking depth
24. Frothy
26. Doc bloc
27. Tricky
30. Facility
35. Seductively beautiful woman
36. Choir member
37. Abstruse
38. Hail, to Caesar
39. Brother or sister
42. Seminary subj.
43. Close
45. Fall prey to a banana peel, say
46. Director Kurosawa
48. Hans Christian
50. Religious dissent
51. Little, in Lille
52. Merrily
54. Lodger
58. Esteem
62. ___ Grows in Brooklyn
63. Coffin support
65. Drop of water expelled by the 
eye
66. In sorry shape
67. ___ uncertain terms
68. Writer Sarah ___ Jewett
69. Compact
70. Read quickly
71. Denials
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You want answers, but no one is listening. Be patient.
taurus
april 20may 20
You let go during spring break, but now its time to pull up 
your socks and get back to work.
gemini
may 21june 21
Focus on what you have rather than what you dont have.
cancer
june 22july 22
I know youd rather be somewhere else, but just go with 
the flow.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Your significant other is not what he or she seems.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
If you ask someone how they are doing, you might get too 
much information; be careful.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Make sure everyone clearly understands what you mean. 
Explain yourself.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
It might not be the worst thing that youre becoming more 
compassionate.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Let people know that you appreciate them and their efforts.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Your efforts will be rewarded and it will be a game-changer.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
If given the option, choose to get out.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
You are a role model for others, so be careful what 
examples you set.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 03.25.1315
MONDAY3.25.13
Eduardo C. Corral lecture. 201 Wood St. 6 p.m.
Eduardo C. Corral, winner of the 2012 Yale Series of 
Younger Poets competition, will speak on Monday as 
part of Point Park Universitys Writers Series. Mondays 
event will include reading from his ?rst poetry book, Slow 
Lightning. The event is free and open to the public.
TUESDAY3.26.13
Carrie Mae Weems lecture. Kresge Theatre. 5 p.m.
Artist Carrie Mae Weems will give a lecture as part 
of the Carnegie Mellon School of Art Lecture Series. 
Weems is known for exploring gender roles, racism, and 
sexism through a variety of media, from photographs to 
installations and videos. Some of her work is currently 
on display at the Mattress Factory as part of the Feminist 
and... exhibit. The lecture is free and open to the public.
Ian McEwan lecture. William Pitt Union Ballroom 
(Forbes Avenue at Bigelow Boulevard). 8:30 p.m.
Author of Amsterdam, On Chesil Beach, Atonement, and, 
most recently, Sweet Tooth, Ian McEwan will give a talk 
hosted by the Pittsburgh Contemporary Writers Series. 
The talk is free and open to the public.
WEDNESDAY3.27.13
Phosphorescent. Club Cafe. 8 p.m.
Lo-? folk musician Phosphorescent will perform at Club 
Cafe as part of his 2013 Muchacho Tour. Special guests 
Strand of Oaks will also perform. More information and 
tickets are available at clubcafelive.com.
THURSDAY3.28.13
Aziz Ansari. Heinz Hall. 7 p.m.
Comedian Aziz Ansari, known for his role as Tom 
Haverford on the NBC comedy Parks and Recreation, 
will put on a show at Heinz Hall on Thursday. 
More information and tickets are available at 
pittsburghsymphony.org.
Brillo Rock Show. brillobox. 9 p.m.
Brillo Rock Show will feature Pittsburgh folk rock band 
Rake, Columbus-based rock band SPD GVNR, and 
Pittsburgh pop rock group The Lampshades. The show is 
for ages 21+ and costs $5 at the door.
Mykki Blanco. 6119 Penn Ave. 10 p.m.
Pittsburgh music collective VIA and 92.1 WPTS present 
rapper Mykki Blanco, also known as the New York poet 
and performance artist Michael Quattlebaum. The show 
will open with performances by Stacian, Gel Set, Shisa, 
Edgar Um, and Lauren G, with visuals by Kevin Ramser. 
The event is for ages 18+ and costs $10 at the door.
FRIDAY3.29.13
Basement Miracle: 2013 MFA Thesis Exhibition. 
Miller Gallery. 6 p.m.
Masters of Fine Arts candidates Scott Andrew, Felipe 
Castelblanco, Craig Fahner, Steve Gurysh, Luke Loef?er, 
Dan Wilcox, and Erin Womack present ?nal work in 
their thesis exhibition. An opening reception will be held  
6  8 p.m. on Friday. More information is available at 
millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
SATURDAY3.30.13
Grizzly Bear. Carnegie Music Hall. 8 p.m.
Brooklyn-based indie rock band Grizzly Bear will perform 
at Carnegie Music Hall with Owen Pallett in a concert 
presented by 91.3 WYEP. Tickets and more information 
are available at wyep.org.
Detour presents Jacques Renault. 6119 Penn Ave. 
10 p.m.
Disco, funk, and electronic DJ Jacques Renault will 
perform at 6119, in a show hosted by Pittsburgh music 
collective DETOUR. DETOUR resident DJs Gusto and 
Mirko (senior industrial design major Mirko Azis) will open 
for Renault. Pittsburgh visual artist Ben Tabas will provide 
the visuals for the evening. The event is for ages 18+ and 
costs $7 at the door.
ONGOING
Power Pixels. Wood Street Galleries. Through April 7. 
The Wood Street Galleries are hosting an exhibit by visual 
artist Miguel Chevalier that features two self-generative 
video installations. More information and gallery hours are 
available at woodstreetgalleries.org.
CMU International Film Festival. McConomy 
Auditorium. Through April 13.
Sponsored by the Humanities Center, the Carnegie 
Mellon International Film Festival presents Faces of 
Media. This years festival features Pittsburgh premiere 
screenings of over a dozen award-winning ?lms from all 
over the world. More information on the festival, including 
information about tickets and screenings, can be found at 
cmu.edu/faces.
Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years. 
The Andy Warhol Museum. Through April 28.
The Andy Warhol Museum celebrates the 50th 
anniversary of Warhols famous Campbells Soup Cans 
with contemporary Warhol-inspired pieces and works by 
the pop art visionary himself. Admission to the museum is 
free for Carnegie Mellon students.
Feminist and...The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs.
What We Collect: Recent Art Acquisitions, 2007
2012. Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Through June 30.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation presents 
an exhibition of recent acquisitions to the art department, 
from the early 19th century to the present. More 
information on the exhibit is available at huntbot.andrew.
cmu.edu/HIBD.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 03.25.13
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Concert pianist and Pittsburgh native Awadagin Pratt performed at Kresge 
Theatre yesterday as part of a Steinway Society of Western Pennsylvania concert. 
According to the School of Music website, the Steinway Society strives to 
promote the piano by presenting nationally and internationally acclaimed artists 
of the highest caliber in solo recital for the Pittsburgh audience.
solo recital.
