NECrAMTAN
VOL. 42No. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1949
Music Students 
Give Concert
Orchestra And Chorus 
To Premiere Selections
A free concert will be given by 
the Student Symphony orchestra 
and chorus of the department of 
music on Wednesday evening, 
March 23, at the Carnegie Music 
hall. Tickets for the concert, which 
begins at 8:15 p. m., may be ob
tained from the music depart
ment office.
Opening the program will be 
Beethovens Overture to Egmont 
and Concerto No. 5 in E flat con
ducted by Mr. Nelson Whitaker, 
Carnegie instructor in piano.
Following the intermission, the 
chorus and orchestra directed by 
Joseph Stecko combine on When 
Johnny Comes Marching Home, 
Turn, O Liberated, and Fog. 
The latter two selections will be 
played for the first time in Pitts
burgh.
In another Pittsburgh premiere 
accompanied by the orchestra, 
Herbert Wilson, baritone, will sing 
Mad Song. Roland Leich, in
structor in music composition, will 
conduct his own selection, Four 
Songs. Tenor Charles Tritle, will 
Sing Loveliest of Trees, How 
Clear, How Lovely Bright, Elu
sive Sleep, and Mr. Finneys 
Turnip.
The final selection, also being 
played in Pittsburgh for the first 
time, will be Aaron Coplands 
Lincoln Portrait. Norman Keats, 
a drama student, will act as nar
rator.
Glee Club Announces 
Five-Concert Schedule
Carnegie Tech Mens Glee club 
has announced a tentative fiveconcert schedule for the remain
der of this semester.
Their first appearance will be on 
April 3, when the group will sing 
at the First Methodist church. The 
concert will be followed by an in
formal party. On April 27, the 
men will join the Womens Glee 
club of Pennsylvania College for 
Women for a formal concert and 
dance, and on May 4 a concert will 
be held at the Calvary church.
Both the mens and women's 
clubs will join on May 18 for their 
annual spring concert. This com
bined sing will be held at the Car
negie music hall. On May 20 the 
men will hold their banquet at 
the University club.
Why Its Flat
Your Tartan will come to you 
starting with this issue with 
only one fold. This is a result of 
being printed on a rotary press. 
As a result the Tartan will ap
pear earlier because of the 
speed of the rotary press. A 
better grade of paper will be 
used and slightly more space 
will be available on each page.
Civil Expert Talks 
On .City Planning
Speaking on The Development 
and Planning of American Cities, 
Mr. Harland Batholomew, noted 
civil engineer, architect, and city 
planning expert for over thirty 
years, will appear at the Carne
gie theater on May 10.
Mr. Batholomew is classed as 
an expert on this subject, having 
worked in all fields of design, in
cluding streets, parks, airports, 
recreational centers, and housing 
units. He has also taken part in 
constructing plans for fifty Cana
dian and American cities, includ
ing Washington, D. C.
Dr. Edward Creutz Is Named 
Physics Department Head
Present Head Dr. Seitz 
Goes To Illinois July 1
Dr. Edward C. Creutz will be
come head of the physics depart
ment on July 1 when the resign
ation of Dr. Frederick Seitz, the 
present head, becomes effective. 
Dr. Seitz will become head of the 
department of physics at the Uni
versity of Illinois.
Effective i m m e d iately Dr. 
Creutz will be a full professor and 
assistant head of the department. 
After he received his doctors de
gree from Wisconsin in 1939 he 
was an instructor at Princeton be
fore working on the atom bomb 
project at the University of Chi
cago during the war.
From there he w^t to Los Ala
mos, New Mexico, where he wit
nessed the first atom bomb ex
plosion. He joined the Carnegie 
faculty in 1946.
Dr. Seitz, who came to Carnegie 
in 1942, instituted nuclear re
search efforts at CIT and was in
strumental in bringing Professor 
Creutz and other leading physicPiDE Banquet Denied 
Publications Support
Editors of three campus publications last week indicated that 
they would not support a publications banquet sponsored by Pi 
Delta Epsilon, national publications honorary.
Although a PiDE publications banquet is a long-standing tra~ Edition on the Carnegie campus,Vacation Notice
There will be no classes on 
Saturday, April 9. Thus Easter 
vacation will effectively begin 
for most day students at 4:30 
on Friday, April 8. Students 
who ordinarily have Saturday 
classes will get an additional 
half day of vacation.
The plan of starting a holi
day on a day other than Sat
urday has been established by 
the Executive Board as an ex
periment in eliminating the 
problem of students cutting 
classes on Saturdays preceeding vacation. If the ex
periment is a success and no 
noticeable drop is observed in 
attendance at Friday classes this 
policy will become permanent.
However, if the Saturday cut
ting is transferred to Friday the 
old policy will be re-instated.
Cyclotron Progress Obstructed 
As State Asks $100*000 Bond
Dr. Creutz and those of his associates responsible for the con
struction of the cyclotron are rapidly becoming hardened to low 
blows when they arent looking.
Two weeks ago, however, the camels back was almost broken
when the highway commission of^
Pennsylvania supplied the last 
straw by requiring a bond of 
$100,000 from the trucker who is 
to move the cyclotron coils from 
Kittanning to the site of the cy
clotron at Saxonburg.
No precedent for a bond of 
that size could be found and no 
bonding firm would underwrite 
such an issue. Recently the truck
er obtained an insuiance policy 
to cover possible road and bridge 
damage, and, with fingers crossed, 
plans are being made for the 
last lap of the journey.
Aspirin A Necessity 
This latest delay has not been 
the only cause for the high con
sumption rate of aspirin in the 
Physics department. Original plans 
for truck transport from Brook
lyn to Saxonburg were discard
ed when Pennsylvanias highway 
commission raised objections to 
carrying the bulky load over cer
tain bridges in the eastern part 
of the state.
Fortunately, several alternative 
routes had already been planned 
and the water route through the 
Gulf of Mexico and up the Mis
sissippi and Ohio rivers was 
chosen.
Unloading A Problem
Labor difficulties slowed the 
passage at Huntington, West Vir
ginia. Finding a site to unload the 
coils became a major problem as a 
dock with a railroad crane and 
loading space for the truck which 
is to carry the coils was needed. 
A site at Kitanning was finally 
picked, but there the problems did 
not end.Army ordnance stepped in to 
proclaim the dock too weak to 
support the crane and its load. 
Hydraulic jacks raised each coil 
slowly and tediously the eleven 
feet necessary to get them out of 
the well-type barge.
John Biewener, Thistle editor, 
Walter Ambrose, Technical edi
tor, and Robert Johnson, Tartan 
editor, jointly decided that they 
would prefer to hold separate 
banquets for their staffs.
They will appear before Stu
dent Council today to explain their 
plans and their break with PiDE.
According to Robert E. (Hap) 
Hazard, PiDE president, he had 
already obtained a toastmaster 
and speaker for the PiDE ban
quet on April 28 and had made 
arrangements for a location.
The capacity of the PiDE ban
quet would have been 80 persons, 
including PiDE members, accord
ing to Hazard. This would have 
included only a small proportion 
of the staffs of the three publica
tions.
The publications plan to give 
banquets which will include all 
members of their staffs. Funds 
for such banquets were included 
in their budgets from Student 
Council at the beginning of the 
year, but the fate of all banquet 
appropriations from Council is 
right now undecided.
Civil EngineersC7
Display Work 
At Open House
ASCE Sponsors Exhibit 
Of Latest Engineering 
Activities In America
Displays covering all phases of 
civil engineering work will be 
shown at an open house tomorrow 
by Carnegies student chapter of 
the American Society of Civil En
gineers.
Theme for the occasion is The 
functions of the civil engineer in 
the social, economic, and indus
trial phases of American life. 
Centered in the civil engineer
ing department, hydraulics lab
oratory, and materials testing lab
oratory, the show is open to all 
students from 3 until 5 p. m., and 
to the public from 7 to 10 p. m.
Three types of bridges used 
during the war  the Bailey 
bridge, the floating pontoon, and 
timber trestlewere loaned by 
the military science department 
for the exhibit.
Photographs from the state and 
local highway departments of re
cently completed improvements 
will be part of the transportation 
display. A sketch of the CommerGirls To Be Sponsored cial street bridge under construc
tion near Frick park is one of sevProf. Edward C. Creutz* * *
ists to the Carnegie Tech campus. 
He was active in pre-war atomic 
research at the University of Chi
cago.
CarnivalQueen 
To Be Chosen 
By Students
Ten Men Chosen 
To Represent CIT 
Tn Matli Contest
Ten men from Carnegie will 
take part in the ninth annual Wil
liam Lowell Putnam mathemat
ical competition which will be 
given Saturday, March 26, in IH 
210.
George Baldwin, Millard F. 
Brown, Robert F. Burke, Richard 
E. Cutkosky, Richard M. Drisko, 
John N. Grace, David R. Lide, 
Paul D. Luckey, Robert W. McKelvey, and Douglas H. Shaffer 
will represent CIT either as - in
dividual contestants or as mem
bers of a team of three. Names 
of those on the team will remain 
secret until after the examination.
Hans Weinberger, who won an 
honorable mention as a member 
of the 1948 CIT team, will review 
previous examinations with this 
years contestants March 12 and 
19.
By Campus Groups
Spring Carnivals 1949 Queen 
and her court will be chosen in an 
all school election on April 29, 
Joe Vogan, chairman of corona
tion and call day announced this 
week.
Each sorority, dormitory, and 
Citcom may sponsor a maximum 
of three candidates who must be 
from the senior class. Names of 
the candidates must be turned in 
to Miss Stewart in the Dean of 
Mens office by April 21.
The court will be composed of 
the five girls who receive the 
highest number of votes. The 
Queen will be the member of the 
court who receives the most votes.
Last year the court was chos
en by popular vote and the final 
selection of a Queen was made by 
a group of outside judges.
The names of the members of 
the court will be published in the 
issue of the Tartan following the 
election, but the Queens identity 
will not be revealed until the 
coronation on Friday, May 13.
Scottie Refunds
Students holding subscrip
tions for the Scottie should leave 
their names in the Dean of 
Mens office before March 29. 
Refund payments will be made 
the first week in April. No re
funds can be made after April 
10.
eral perspective drawings.
Steel is to be torn apart and 
concrete will be compressed dur
ing tests identical to those of in
dustry in demonstrations in the 
field of Materials and Construc
tion. Methods used by engineers 
to measure and control the flow 
of water will be demonstrated in 
the hydraulics laboratory.
Technical Offers 
Fifty Dollar Award 
In Essay Contest
Engineering and science stu
dents who like to see their work 
in print will find Carnegies Technicals prize article contest to 
their liking. A prize of fifty dol
lars will be offered by the Tech
nical from its own funds, editor 
Walter Ambrose announced last 
week.
The contest is open to all reg
istered students at CIT with un
dergraduate status. Articles should 
not exceed 3,000 words; illustra
tions or photographs are accepta
ble. Topics may include any 
branch of engineering or science.
All articles should be typewrit
ten, double spaced on S^xll inch 
paper, and must be submitted no 
later than April 2.
The winner will be announced 
in the May issue of the Technical.
Campus Chest Proposal Plans 
Combining F und-Raising Drives
Combining all campus solicitations into one drive was the pur
pose behind the Campus Chest program presented to Council last 
week. Organizations such as the Red Cross and Community Chest, 
Which usually raise funds separately, will receive specified portions* 
of the drives proceeds, according#
to Stan Siegel, who brought up 
the idea.
According to the supporters of 
the plan, the Campus Chest ide 
has been used with outstanding 
success on other campuses. The 
main advantage is the solution of 
the psychological problem of con
tributors resistance encountered 
by every soliciting group after 
the first one each year.
The Campus Chest would allow 
for one concentrated drive, early 
in the school year, and none there
after. Since the money would be 
proportioned between the various
philanthropic agencies, each or
ganization would get a fair share, 
regardless of when its drive might 
ordinarily have been held.
At the present time the idea is 
in the hatching stage. Pat Ryan, 
Council president, is expected to 
appoint a committee to investigate 
the idea and report on its possi
bilities to Council.
Success of the Campus Chest 
rests on the understanding of the 
principles of the plan by the stu
dent body. It will not be just 
another collection, but the colleclection.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. MARCH 16, 1949
(Carnegie T arian
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951! Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ........................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ................................................ Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ........................................... Burton L. EpsteinPersonnel Manager .................................. Richard B. Mitchell
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Sports EditorPaul Offermann, Copy EditorBert Kimmel, Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Art EditorRussel F. Kulberg, Features EditorFrank Roth, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.
Proof EditorJohn Braun, Asst. Business Manager Herbert Stone, Personnel AssistantRay Mangold, Chief ReportersBennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy Joseph Weinrich, Frances Hamborsky, Lauri Ehni, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger. Copy StaffJohn Bornman, Hamilton Bartlett, John Gerum. Analee Gelman, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Jane Lawton, Elizabeth Asche, Features StaffA. Starke Drisehell, Gene Feist. Jack Johnson, Makeup StaffA1 Bader, PhotographerLeland Green.
ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Joan Blumenthal, William Lyell Nancy Sitler, Tom Birch. Cub ReportersSally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Kams, Edward Koos, Sus MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Anita Tabellini, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood, Sports Staff Robert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lithgow, Art Mensing, Gerry Conlon, John Roslund.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon, Herman P. Alexander.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean, Shirley Dixon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized October 21, 1918.
EditorialsMake It Comfortable
Well all have a chance to help determine 
school policy on the starting days for vacations 
on April 9. As a matter of fact the policy right 
now is in the hands of the student body. If we 
recognize the benefit that many students will 
get from the cancellation of Saturday classes 
and refrain from cutting classes on Friday, this 
privilege will be granted as a regular policy in 
the future.
Remember, you make your own bed.
Misguided Zealot
It is high time that we acknowledged a rather 
serious error which we made some months ago. 
In a naive moment we acclaimed Arbon Lang as 
one who would be a constructive addition to Stu
dent Council and recommended him as such.
At the time we didnt realize how much dam
age Mr. Lang could do. We know now. With a 
passion that is generally reserved for life and 
death matters, and with a lack of knowledge of 
activities that is abysmal, Lang has claimed the 
existence of a set of so-called controversial is
sues.
Having now communicated these to some 
of his Dormicom cohorts, who were elected 
to Student Council on a nebulous platform 
full of meaningless and unrealistic mouthings, 
he has for the first time in our memory 
threatened to create a destructive dog-eatdog fight and completely destroy any effect
iveness Council might have.
After convincing himself that controversial 
issues exist, and that only skulking, dishonest 
fraternity men are ranged against the pure in 
heart, i. e. Dormicom, he apparently has deter
mined that if he must pull the house down to 
drive out the rats, he will do just that.
Lang has one important virtue, and he has 
demonstrated it well. He is interested in the 
constitutionality of Student Council proceedings, 
and in having a well-written constitution and by
laws. Fine.
But neither he nor his willing pawns on 
Student Council have as yet defined any goals 
beyond these. If any conclusion can be drawn 
from his actions thus far and from his re
fusal to run for Council it is that he has no 
such goals. He has shown a desire for pow
er, but without responsibility attached. The 
other members of Dormicom at least had the 
guts to accept the responsibility of Council 
membership.
He attacks fraternity machines, but frater
nity machines at the height of their power never 
showed the passionate zeal nor the dedication 
to form rather than accomplishment that is cur
rently being shown by Lang and his disciples.
By his attitudes he has long since lost any 
chance of convincing onlookers of the impartiali
ty or the soundness of any of his ideas. Even J. K. 
OHare, independent who has been on Council 
longer than Lang has been in school and one of 
the most respected men on the campus, among 
both independents and fraternity men, has be
come disgusted with Langs hate-mongering.
And John Fockler, new publications chairman, 
one of the most constructive and hard-working 
Council members last semester, and active in in
dependent ranks even before the war, finds him
self at odds with Lang.
The interest and activity Lang has shown 
are commendable, but his accomplishments 
are primarily destructive, and they promise a 
stalemate on constructive developments.
Stop The MusiciDPs May Be 
Brought Here
IF And Dorm Councils 
To Support Students
Three displaced persons are to 
be given a CIT education under 
the provisions of a plan now un
der consideration.
According to the project, as yet 
in a tentative planning stage, Interfratemity council, Mens Dorm 
council, and Womens Dorm 
council are being sought as sup
porters.
If the idea materializes, three 
displaced persons will be brought 
to Carnegie Tech for the school 
year beginning in September. Tui
tion will be absorbed by the 
school, while each of the three or
ganizations supporting these dis
placed persons will provide for a 
students housing, food, and 
clothing.
At recent meetings, both Inter
fraternity Council and Mens 
Dorm council have voted to sup
port the plan if and when it is 
realized. Both organizations are 
awaiting more information from 
the Dean of Mens office which 
will handle all arrangements.
Womens Dorm council as yet 
has not discussed the play at its 
meeting. However, more concrete 
details can be worked upon now 
that positive interest has been 
shown.
Historical Committee 
Gathers Carnegiana
Trying to keep a finger on the elusive pulse 
of Carnegie Tech, as well as digging obscure de
tails out of the dim recesses of the past, in the 
interest of posterity, is the difficult but challeng
ing task of the Historical Records committee 
headed by Dr. Charles W. Paape, associate pro
fessor of history.
Even in the short 49 years since the founding 
of the school much that the committee would 
like to have in its records has escaped or has 
been lost, through negligent or incomplete record 
keeping and other ordinary weaknesses of any 
institution.
Carnegies Wishes 
Among the records safeguarded by the 
committee are the wishes of Andrew Car
negie regarding the administrative and ed
ucational policies of the school as set forth 
in his will.
Although not needed for daily use, frequent 
reference must be made to these records so that 
the school does not, through procedure incomDo You Keep A Diary?
Would you like to turn your personal 
memoirs of college days over to Carnegie 
Tech to aid future historians in deciding just 
what students of this era did to amuse them
selves?
Information concerning student life is 
very sparse in the files of the Historical 
Records committee. The best type of record 
would be a diary kept by some student dur
ing his or her days at Carnegie Tech. Stu
dents who keep a diary and have no objec
tions to having it recorded by the committee, 
are requested to contact Dr. Paape, IH 229-E.
patible with Carnegies wishes, forfeit any bene
fits allocated to it under the terms of his will.
Other material, such as the correspondence 
of former presidents, and minutes of various 
other faculty committees on campus, are also 
filed with the committee.
Publications Kept 
Of more interest to the student is the com
pilation of all articles which shed light on 
CIT and its operation. All available note
books and papers left by students are filed, 
since these are considered valuable in il
lustrating the educational aspect of the in
stitution. Books published by the school are 
collected, and records and ideas of former 
teachers and presidents may be inspected.
Extra-curricular activities are not eclipsed 
by education, however, for this committee is in 
possession of a large amount of information on 
sports and amusements, and has news clippings 
of general interest pertaining to the school. Backissues of the various campus publications are 
on file, including those which, for one reason 
or another, are no longer being published.
First Issue Of Tartan
More unique items, such as the cap and gown 
of the first president and a page of the first is
sue of the Tartan, donated by Mrs. Carnegie,
[Continued on page 3]
What makes it worth having?
B
Y ITSELF, a Bell telephone is useless. What 
makes it so valuable to you is that it brings 
the world within easy speaking distance when con
nected to the Beil System network.
This network ha? billions of parts. All had to be 
designed and manufactured to work together for 
good telephone service.
To assure a dependable source of good equip
ment that will work together with all other parts of 
the nation-wide telephone network,Western Electric 
long ago was made the manufacturing unit of the 
Bell System.
 As members of the Bell System, Western Electric 
people can work most closely with Bell research people 
who design equipment and Bell Telephone company 
people who operate it. Result: You get the most de
pendable, most valuable telephone service on earth.
Western Etectric
A UNIT OF THE BELLSYSTEM SINCE 1882

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
APO To Aid 
In Publishing 
C-Book Earlier
s Working in conjunction with 
the public relations office, Alpha 
Phi Omega, service honorary, is 
making plans to give CIT stu
dents their C Books next fall at 
a much earlier date than was pos
sible this year.
Stanley R. March, speaking for 
the public relations office, said 
that increased speed of produc
tion of the directories would be 
gained by the elimination of one 
time consuming step.
Time has been wasted in copy
ing information from the rail
road ticket which the student fills 
out at registration. In copying the 
card for the directory all the in
formation must be changed about 
until it is in the proper order for 
the C Book.
It is planned that next year 
there will be one or two clerks at 
the end of the registration line 
who will pass out address cards on 
which the student will write his 
C Book address, phone number, 
and department.
These cards may then be ar
ranged and sent directly to the 
printer, thus eliminating the ted
ious process of copying informa
tion from each students card and 
arranging it in proper order for 
the printer.
Gift From A tidys Daughter
APO Closes 
Book Exchange
Larger Scale Operation 
Planned Next Semester
As Alpha Phi Omegas book ex
change closed for the semester last 
Thursday, plans were being made 
to reopen the service next fall on 
a larger scale.
Looking back on their experi
ment, the rrlembers of APO were 
highly satisfied with the results 
produced. The exchange was con
ducted during the second semester, 
when a relatively small number 
of books are needed by students, 
to give APO some indication of the 
number of people who would use 
the servict
A critique of operations showed 
that 55 of the 123 books offered 
for sale were sold. Math books of 
all kinds were in greatest demand 
while upper class social relations 
books were next in preference.
Few changes will be made when 
the book exchange again opens 
next fall. Incoming freshmen will 
be notified of the exchange before 
they arrive for registration so that 
present freshmen will have a 
market for their used texts.
Final Banquet Plans Arranged 
As Council Agrees To Cooperate
Banquet To Be Paid For By Those Who Attend; 
Ryan Appoints Budget Committee Chairman
Cooperation plus was the keynote last week as Council set
tled the particulars of its much discussed banquet. Because both old 
and new members voted in the previous meeting, President Ryan 
declared the vote taken then out of order. With the slate wiped
--------------------------------------------------?clean, it was decided that the non| date banquet be held March 24,
Council Committee 
Heads Appointed
This painting of CITs founder 
corridor of Administration hall.
* * * ?
will hang in the second floor
Dr. Doherty Obtains 
Painting Of Founder 
From New York Mansion
Carnegie Tech is the new owner 
of a Howard Russell Butler paint
ing of Andrew Carnegie which 
previously hung in the Carnegie 
Mansion in New York.
President Doherty recently ob
tained the painting, one of the 
favorites of Carnegies wife, from 
Mrs. Roswell Miller, daughter of 
CITs founder and wife of one of 
its trustees. He requested that it 
be sent here after learning that 
the family mansion was being 
turned over to Columbia univer
sity and that all of the paintings 
of Carnegie were being sent else
where.
The picture will be hung as 
soon as possible in the second floor 
hallways of Administration hall, 
replacing the painting of Car
negie which presently hangs there.
Canterbury House Sets 
Open House Tomorrow
Canterbury House will hold an 
open house for all students on 
St. Patricks day, March 17, 
from 4 to 6 p. m. A special in
vitation is extended to those 
who have not yet visited Can-, 
terbury house.
&
V Webster s  
Collegiate 
Dictionary
Regular Price $S.WW
Sale Price
gjgI3ai3/3JS3Jai3M5MS15ii
hatmkeas iwwo krvnge?k
3811 Fifth Avenue MA. 3689
T artan Awards 
Trophies To 
CIT Athletes
Cups To Be Presented 
By Newspaper Staff 
At Spring Carnival
Two new athletic awards will 
be made by the Tartan at Spring 
Carnival this year. One award 
will be a cup for the most out
standing varsity athlete of the 
year and the other will be a sim
ilar award for the outstanding in
tramural athlete of the year.
Varsity Award 
The varsity award will be made 
on the basis of the individuals allaround value to his team. This 
does not necessarily mean that 
the trophy will be awarded to a 
participant in a major sport such 
as football or basketball. Full con
sideration will be given to all 
sportscross country, swimming, 
track, tennis, golf, etc.
Coaches and managers will be 
asked to confer and select the one 
or two members of their individ
ual squads who were outstanding 
the entire yearnot spectacular, 
but consistently good throughout 
the season. After these candidates 
have been selected, a committee 
composed of athletic director 
Buddy Overend, varsity coaches, 
and members of the Tartan will 
meet and select the most valuable.
Intramural Honor 
Selection of the best intramural 
athlete of the year will be turn
ed over to the Intramural board 
and the Managers club for the 
initial voting on candidates. Fol
lowing this, members of the Tar
tan will confer with Mr. David 
See, Mr. Raymond Haynes, and 
the presidents of the aforemen
tioned organizations to narrow 
down the selection and probably 
make the final choice.
It is expected that these awards 
will be made on an annual basis in 
the future.
John Fockler, long time ac
tive in independent ranks, has 
been named publications chair
man of Student Council by 
President Ryan.
Other new committee heads 
are Lynn Gashe, president of 
Cwens, freshman regulations 
committee; Ted Goodson, new 
Dormicom council member, so
cial committee; Dave Sapper, 
Technical business manager, 
points and keys committee; Rob
ert Sinclair, budget committee; 
James Reynolds, elections com
mittee; and Jack Horner, special 
committee.
Heads New School
Prof. G.Bach
Bach Named 
Acting IA Head
Planning Group Has 
Provost Smith As Head
Professor G. L. Bach has been 
appointed acting director of the 
new School of Industrial Admin
istration.
The formation of a planning 
committee with Provost Smith as 
chairman, and consisting of Prof. 
Bach, Directors Cleeton and 
Mehl, and President Doherty, ex 
officio, has also been announced 
by the Board of Trustees.
The planning committee is re
sponsible for the arranging of the 
program of the school, including 
personnel and other requirements 
leading up to the formal estab
lishment of the school.
Dr. Bach assumes the acting di
rectorship in addition to his other 
duties as head of the department 
of economics, and acting head of 
the industrial administration de
partment.
and will be personally financed by 
those attending it.
After settling the banquet is
sue, Council heard a report and 
recommendation from former 
Councilman Shaffer concerning 
the budget committee. Councilman 
Meyers presented the report of 
the constitution revision commit
tee and several of the proposals 
presented by the committee were 
accepted.
Councilmen to Pay 
The vote of March 2 concerning 
the banquet was declared out of 
order because Council members 
felt that the constitution did not 
intend that both the old and new 
members be allowed to vote on all 
questions during the transition 
meeting. Council Sedgwick pro
posed that the banquet be paid 
for by those who attend it. After 
much discussion and consultation 
of Roberts Rules this idea was 
accepted.
Shaffer proposed that the 
council bylaws be changed to 
make the budget committee head 
yearly instead of half-yearly posi
tion. Having had a year of ex
perience as chairman, he felt it is 
a distinct disadvantage for a new 
person to take over the compli
cated duties only to relinquish 
them when he has obtained a 
knowledge of the duties.
Shaffer requested Council to al
low him to continue his duties un
til the bylaws can be revised to 
put the position on a yearly basis. 
Arbon Lang stated that Shaffers 
record as budget chairman was 
excellent, but he would be unable 
to continue his * duties because it 
would be a violation of the by
laws.
Vote Of Confidence Given
Not being able to evade Langs 
unconstitutionality a r g ument, 
council gave Shaffer a vote of con
fidence and made him a member 
of the budget committee. Pat Ryan 
appointed Robert Sinclair to head 
the committee for the semester.
Two of Meyers suggestions for 
constitutional revision were ac
cepted after lengthy discussion 
over wording and definitions. Lack 
of time prevented the considera
tion of all of the proposals so the 
remaining ones were tabled until 
the next meeting.
Councilman Engel asked that 
the minutes of each meeting 
should include the names of mem
bers present and in the case of a 
roll call vote, a record of the vote 
of each member should be kept.
Carnegie-Illinois Official 
To Be SAM Speaker
Fridays SAM speaker will be 
William Wigham, Jr., a staff as
sistant in the Industrial Relations 
division of Carnegie-Illinois. The 
topic of his talk will be Man
agement Alignment.
Tau Beta Pi Designs 
New Application Forms
New letters of application and 
questionnaires are now being de
signed by members of Tau Beta 
Pi to facilitate their plans for a 
spring call.
Chairman of the elections com
mittee, which is preparing the 
new forms, is Patrick McCurdy. 
Those on the committee include 
Douglas Shaffer, Robert Sin
clair, and John Curley. Norman 
Franz heads the banquet commit
tee and Alan Forsythe is chair
man of initiations.
Historical
[Continued from page 2] 
are also in the committees files. 
In addition, these files contain 
graduation and theatre programs, 
pictures of social events, and similiar material.
Some of the documents that 
the committee holds are avail
able for student usage, but oth
ers, such as the letters and 
memoranda of former President 
Baker, are accessible only to 
those whom the committee feels 
have the education and qualifi
cations necessary to digest the 
material.
Information Lacking 
The members of the committee, 
Professors Estep, Hitchens, Long, 
Parshall, and Voight, and Messrs. 
Elliot, March, and Miller, along 
with Dr. Paape, the chairman, 
feel that their task is be
ing satisfactorily carried out in 
most instances, but regret that 
they have been unable to obtain 
any appreciable amount of infor
mation as to the opinions of stu
dents regarding the various phases 
of college life at Carnegie.
Except in the instances of let
ters directed to the administration 
or school publications, opinions of 
such nature are rarely in writ
ten form, and are conspicuous by 
their absence.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1949
Paul OffermannV
Varsity Teams Need 
Support; Indepen 
Hold Key to Spirit
Dr. Eddie Baker hit on a solid point the other night in 
his initial address to the football plaj^ersa point that the doc
tor has always been known to stress. He emphasized the part 
that student spirit plays in the molding of a winning football 
team, such as the teams he has coached at Carnegie in the not 
too far past.
School spirit during the past two years lias been nothing 
to brag about on the Carnegie campus, especially when visiting 
schools march into Forbes field and into our own gvmnasium 
and are frequently able to drown out our cheers. Yet, on their 
own trips to near-by schools, the Tartans have very little yell
ing support behind them. We cite the last basketball game of 
the season at Westminster, when the Plaid came within four 
points of pulling the major upset of the season, as a time when 
a small handful of Carnegie students could have helped cut 
down the home floor advantage.
During: the past two football seasons the backbone of 
school spirit have been the fraternities. In fact, school spirit 
and fraternities have been synonomous in more than one 
instance; -for example, the reception given the football team 
at the Pennsylvania station last fall upon their return from 
St. Louis. Despite the opening game defeat to Washington 
university, almost all fraternities had a large turn out to 
greet the players. Thats real spirit!
If the fraternity and independent members of Student 
Council would turn some of the energy they lose in their use
less quibbling to the organization and promotion of student 
excursions to next years football games, they would be mak
ing a monumental contribution to the return of winning foot
ball on the Carnegie campus.
And what better time for the start of such excursions
then the opening game at Bethany next September?
WHAT PRICE, SPORTS?Sergeant Reed, Carnegies rifle 
coach, has come up with a promising rifle squad this year. 
In fact, the squad has showed enough prowess in their matches
?the past few weeks that their
coach thinks they are good
enough to represent Carnegie 
Tech at the pre-intereollegiate 
national championship matches 
in New York next month. So, 
its off to New York for the 
rifle men.
The only catch is that the 
individual members are pay
ing, pro rata, all of their ex
penses. The reason: non-avail
ability of school funds. It 
seems odd that other schools 
with lower tuition rates are 
able to support many more 
sports than Carnegie does.
We picked up a sport release 
from an eastern school the 
other day and found that they 
supported more intercollegiate 
sports in spring alone, than 
Carnegie has all year. Yet, this 
school has a smaller student 
body and a lower tuition rate.
TX Cinches Its 
League Title
In Close Battlem
Big
.What go mk
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
lee Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Male Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
ibkv
Dr.DEd
mou
'fvtlCsP
contains Viratol
eAU NwITtOg UAan FAIgawOH
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural... 
it feels natural... 
arid it stays in 
place 1 Try a bottle.
* This special compound gives lustre... 
keeps bair in place without stiffness.
"flic (MI
~oJv'iiot
(
Fastuca (extreme left), TNT 
Theta Xi in the TXs 41-39 win 
Federal league race. Waiting for 
Dean and Mancusco of TNT, and 
quired an overtime period before
TX, TNT B Clinch 
1M Basketball Titles
TX-TNT 44A Tilt Season High Spot 
As IM Basketball Nears Finish
Theta Xi pulled a thriller out of the fire last week in intramural 
basketball as they toppled TNT A from the ranks of the undefeated 
in an overtime match and thus cinched the Federal league title. 
TNT B took the National league title.
? In the TNT B-Theta Xi game, 
the most exciting of the week, the 
TXs were forced to call on the 
high scoring services of Joe Winklman to gain them their 41-39 
win.
Despite the absence of their 
ace, high scoring Tasso Katselas, 
TNT B easily crushed the Wildmen under the avalanche of E 
55-30 score. SAE, though not tak
ing part in any action, ended up 
in second place in the National 
league, while the Big Five took 
third by overwhelming the Dons, 
39-24.
Pi Kappa Alpha showed a flash 
of their last years form in up
setting the favored Kappa Sigma 
A team in the American league 
by a score of 51-50. But despite 
this loss the Kappa Sigs retained 
their hold on first place.
The Freshman Arthitects re
mained within striking distance of 
first place by downing the Obe
lisks, 57-20. The league title was 
to be decided last night as the 
Kappa Sig A and Freshman Ar
chitects met. '
The playoff for the school cham
pionship will begin tomorrow.
Basketball Results
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Beta 1 56] Purple Raiders 22Emanon A 541 Sigma Nu 16PiKA 51| Kappa Sig g 50Purple Raiders 35(Beta Sigs 33571 Obelisks 20
guard, blocks a shot by Oxley of 
that clinched first place in the 
the rebound are left to right, 
Winkleman of TX. The game rethe TXs eked out the win.
new Vaseline cream hair tonic
IM Basketball 
Playoffs Start 
Tomorrow
Annual Foul Shooting 
And Soccer Competition 
Slated To Begin Soon
Play-offs for the IM basketball 
championship will be off to a fly
ing start tomorrow night when the 
National league winners, TNT-B, 
meet the American league cham
pions. The second game of the 
play-offsscheduled for the fol
lowing Monday, March 21will 
see the American league cham
pions versus the Federal league 
champsthe TXs. Friday, March 
25, has been advanced as a ten
tative date for the third match of 
the play-offs with the TNT-Bs 
meeting the TXs.
If a school champion* is deter
mined in the span of the sched
uled game, the Tech champs will 
be hosts to the winners of Pitts 
IM league the following week.
All Foul Shooting entries for 
both team and individual competi
tion must be in today. IM Four 
Shooting - competition is to begin 
on Monday, March 21. A foul 
shooting team must be composed 
of from five to ten men. The top 
five teams are eligible for com
petition in the finals.
March 21 is the deadline for 
Soccer entrants. It is hoped that 
games will be underway by 
March 28.
Sports Staff
There will be a meeting of all 
staff members of the sports de
partment this Friday evening at 
8:00 p. m. The meeting will be 
very short. Any persons inter
ested in writing sports are en
couraged to attend.
Plaid Matmen 
Outclassed In 
Three Matches
% Pitt, Wilkinsburg 
Boys Club Conquer 
Inexperienced Team
Tartan wrestlers dropped three 
matches last week as they were 
outclassed and outpointed by 
Downtown Y.M.C.A. 17-5, Pitt 
25-5, and Wilkinsburg Boys Club 
16-10 in rapid succession. The 
Plaid grapplers are greatly lack
ing in experience, for only four 
members of the team wrestled be
fore coming to Carnegie Tech. 
The teams that have furnished 
the opposition are staffed with 
former A.A.U. men and wrestlers 
with six or seven years experi
ence behind them.
The main objective of this years 
wrestling competition is to build 
up the team and possibly garner 
enough material and interest in 
the sport to start a varsity squad 
next fall.
Summaries 
vAa BL. mSYMCSYM 181
Murphy (Y) decisioned Seeburg (CIT) in the 145 lb. class. Botts (Y) decisioned Pratt (CIT) in the 155 lb. class; Hawkins (CIT) pinned Hogg (Y) in the 165 lb. class; Yost (Y) decisioned Mavrigian (CIT) in the 165 lb. class; Granger (Y) pinned Homann (CIT) in the 175 lb. class; Fascetti (Y) decisioned Shihda (CIT^in the heavyweight class.
vAa BL. 2'CC
Capelli (PITT) decisioned Coyle (CIT) in the 128 lb. class; Horsch (CIT) tied Hutchison (PITT) in the 135 lb. class; Pratt (CIT) decisioned Abraham (PITT) in the 155 lb. class; Dudzik (PITT) decisioned Stevens (CIT) in the 155 lb. class; Skirpan (PITT) decisioned . Carpenter (CIT) in the 165 lb. class; Cookliss (PITT) pinned Hawkins (CIT) in the 165 lb. class; Supinsky (PITT) pinned Taylor (CIT) in the heavyweight class; Conklin (PITT) pinned Shihda (CIT) in the heavyweight class.
vAa BL. UlKMdf. iSyL vlud
Coyle (CIT) tied Thompson (WBC) in the 135 lb. class; Bloom (CIT) pinned Bennett (WBC) in the 145 lb. class; Welte (WBC) decisioned Stephens (CIT) in the 155 lb. class; Amarino (WBC) decisioned Hawkins (CIT) in the 165 lb. class; Klien (WBC) pinned Homan (CIT) in the 175 lb. class; Taylor (CIT) decisioned Dileo (WBC) in the 185 lb. class; Ivory (WBC) decisioned Shihda (CIT) in the heavyweight class.
Fr. Arch.
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Theta Xi Kappa Sig Betas 2 DeltsPhi Kappa 49ers TNT A Theta Xi Beta 2 Billikens
411 TNT A 371 Dragons 36| Billikens 36| FPHA 851 Dragons 391 Billkens 331 Delts 48| ASCE 34| FPHA 471 Dragons
ATO Big 5 Tau Delts Emanon B TNT B 
Citcom
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
40| Wildmen39j Dons 36| DU 431 Phi Kappa B 55| Wildmen 48| Dons
39291921323427211734
352428313031
Basketball Standings
AMERICAN LEAGUE
WonLostKappa Sigma A81Fr. Architects71Emanon A72Beta 162Stanley Steamers52Pi Kappa Alpha53Purple Raiders36Beta Sigma Rho37Obelisks27Sigma Nu18Scobell Hall08
FEDERALLEAGUE
 WonLostTheta Xi100TNT A81Phi Kappa A62Beta 253ASCE4349ers44Delts45Kappa Sigma B35Billikens38Dragons010FPHA19
NATIONALLEAGUE
WonLostTNT B90Sigma Alpha Epsilon62Big Five52Citcom63Delta Upsilon63Alpha Tau Omega44Tau Delta Phi44Wildmen35Emanon B26Dons18Phi Kappa B09
Paid Advertisement .....
Tke UAan vgIhc 
kgIe kraIg Twek8
There are a few openings for 
Carnegie Tech married veter
ans to make substantial earn
ings with an established firm. 
It is essential that applicants 
have^ cars. Hours can be ar
ranged to suit your schedule 
and can be varied. Several 
Carnegie Tech men are already 
adding to their income in our 
employ. Summer employment 
will be available to those who 
show initiative. Any men in
terested may arrange for an 
interview by sending their 
name and phone number to 
CIT Box 100.
...Paid Advertisement ______

---------------------------------------------------

IF YOU SKITTERING HENS DON'T ABSQUATULATE I'LL MACERATE
WhyI /iCl
I CAN'T U N DERSTAN Q\ VVHAT VI SEES IN 
SUCH A GOON ! J
'THIS CLASS ODE IS REALLY \ GOING GREAT GUNS, V(,THANKS 
TO YOU AND JOHNNY ^
THANKS TO PHILIPMORRIS
.you MEAN/My GOOD PENTAMETRIST/ ,OKAYI'LL TRY ANYTHING ONCE
lmourn,ate$! weqradoatband so Incontinently shatter 
the finest class in anystafeand that's no lauqhinq matter
M EXCELLENT, Pli MELVIN, rt3\ EXCELLENT/
HE'S MY FAVORITE POET-you T.tt<E A, Y/* BOW/TOO/jOHNNy I
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1949
Happier Grid Picture Seen By 
Doc BakerA Winning Era9
With the emphatic words, Next year Carnegie Tech is going to 
win football games, coach Eddie Baker addressed last years foot
ball team at a party for the team given at the Kappa Sig house
last Friday evening. ?-----------------------
All we need is a little confiAs Plans Are 
Laid For Mayhem 
On The Gridiron 
In Coming Season
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
dence and a lot of hard work, and 
we can start a new era at Carne
gie Tech, a win era.
I Like To Win
Coach Baker continued by com
menting, the CIT football play
ers here now are older, more ex
perienced, stronger, and faster 
than many of the teams I coached 
in the past. And Ive been with the 
good and the bad, he added.
Ive been in this same position 
before, when we won one and 
two games a season. Theres noth
ing I like better than to win. I 
hate to lose. And men, were go
ing to win.
We dont intend to be Simon 
Legrees on you fellows, but we 
must not lose sight of our objec
tive; to win ball games for our
selves and for Carnegie Tech, he 
concluded.
Spring Drills
The newly appointed coach then 
outlined plans for spring prac
tice. Starting March 21, indoor 
blackboard drills and workouts in 
the gym will be held.
Plays will be outlined on the 
board one day, and the squad will 
walk through them on the gym 
floor the next. As soon as the 
weather permits, the gridders will 
move outside to the bowl to start 
scrimmaging from their new 
winged-T formation.
TX Takes Two 
League Titles
Phi Kaps Set Record; 
Bill Repovz Stars
With the seasons schedules all 
wound up, Intramural bowling 
and table tennis competitors sat 
back to await the playoffs for the 
campus crowns.
Powerful Theta Xi, two time all 
points champions, bounced back 
into the limelight with league ti
tles in both sports. Rolling three 
victories over the Sigma Nu No. 2 
bowlers last Saturday, the TXs 
clinched the Strike league title 
and with it the right to meet the 
Sigma Nu No. 1 keglers in the 
finale on Saturday, March 26.
Almost forgotten in the cham
pionship excitement was Phi 
Kappas second place record total 
of 916 for a single game. Led by 
Bill Repovzs record smashing 
242, the Phi Kaps amassed their 
seasonal high while topping the 
Betas in three straight to forge 
ahead of the Delta Tau Delta 
quintet.
On the table tennis front, the 
TXs anxiously awaited the out
come of the Skibo league competi
tion where unbeaten Emanori was 
setting the pace. Led by the 1948 
individual champion, Dave 
Holmes, the independent team had 
swept through seven games with
out a defeat and seemed almost 
certain to continue their winning 
ways through their last two con
tests.
Table Tennis Standings
SCOTS LEAGUE SKIBO LEAGUE TX
Tau Delts PiKA Beta Sig ATO , phi Kap Citcom
0 Emanon1 Betas2 DTD4| Kappa SigDU SAESigma Nu TNT Dorm A
Bowling Standings
SPARE LEAGUE Sigma Nu 1 20 1Emanon 19 PiKA DU SAE
Kappa Sig Beta B TS
1199970
STRIKE LEAGUE
TXPhi Kap DTD Citcom 12| Tau Delts 121 Beta A 14| ATO 21| Beta Sig I Sigma Nu
21. 18 15 14 10 9 9 5 2 1
Dr. Eddie Baker, left foreground, pictured with some of the foot
ball players at the stag smoker held by the squad for the new coaches 
at the Kappa Sig house last Friday night. Baker promised the squad 
that he would work for a winning team, but promised that they 
would have to work hard themselves. It was announced at this 
meeting that spring practice would begin with indoor drills next 
Monday.
Theodore Is Captain Again: 
All-Opponent Team Selected
For the third consecutive season, Mike Theodore has been elect
ed captain of Carnegies basketball quintet. The reelection of Mike 
by his teammates simply backs up what the records have shown 
all seasonconsistent high scorer, 33 points in one game, 13 field 
goals in the same game, 10 free^
throws against Pittall of these 
marks being individual highs for 
the season.
In addition, Theodore cut the 
chords for 324 points in 21 games, 
setting a new individual high 
mark for a Carnegie player.
Best In Ten Years
The team, as a whole, made out 
well, setting up a string of eight 
wins against thirteen losses, the 
best Skibo team record in the p6st 
ten years. The record-breaking 
75-48 defeat of Case, the 32 field 
goals against Case, the 47 free 
throws attempted in the first Pitt 
game, and the 27 free throws 
made in the same encounter, were 
some of the team high marks at
tained in the past season.
Following the election of big 
Mike to next years captaincy, the 
team selected their all-opponent 
team for the past season. Because 
of Sammy Davids consistent 
scoring to the tune of 50 points in
the two Pitt-CIT skirmishes, he 
was voted the most valuable op
ponent. David, incidentally, was 
the only unanimous selection for 
the all-opponent first team.
Tough Crew
Martin of Bethany and Blackwell of Oberlin were chosen to fill 
the forward positions, each man 
receiving six out of twelve first 
team ballots. Karmarkovich of 
Waynesburg was elected to the 
center slot, and McCullough of 
Westminster was placed at the 
other guard position.
The second team had Hankins 
(Lawrence Tech) and Milich (Ge
neva) at forwards; Unruh (Brad
ley Tech), center; Humerickhouse 
(Bradley Tech) and Canterna 
(Pitt), guards. The third team is 
composed of Stepler (Lawrence 
Tech) and Simon (Penn State), 
forwards; Dembinski (Westmin
ster), center; Vlasic (Geneva) and 
Addison (Oberlin), guards.
CAMPUS CAPE*,thssW
VtZeC-TS TkOFAe awUgIm g 
VITHYGAMBIC TRIUMPH/
I CAN'T HELP IT' ^ TRYING TO BEAT OUT THIS ELEUSINIAN
RAPTURE AND
NECAMT VAOO 
L. 42o14 9RRGI 
1S 1UF 1IH.
I DON'T MEAN TO EXPOSTULATE, BUT
EVEN IF YOU ARE SALUTATORIAN/^
YOU'RE GETZ-^P TING MEANER/ 0 EVERY 
DAY U
THAT'S MEL, THE CLASS POET IN ONE OF 
HIS FRENETIC AMMOODS
CIGARETTEHANGOVER
/MEL(YOUVE GOT 
CIGARETTE HANGOVERyou OWE IT TO YOUR
SELF TO CHANGE TO PHILIP MORRIS,THE *
0/V CIGARETTE PROVED PEFIN 
ITELY LESS IRRITATING/
QU/ET EVERYBODY 
-MELS GOING TO REAP US A , 
POEM-7H 
CLASS OVE MAY6E
/Sfx
~Kzr------s&gr-----
Come -tone the sfrinq-and let 
us sin^ a clear triumphant 
chows -Jif! ( The cigarette, the finest yet is . 
gfi ihatuUedPMip Morris / \
- - WAIT THAT'S THE WRONG ODE...
BUT THE RIGHT DENOUEMENT.., YOU'VE 'ODE' A LOT 
TO PHILIP MORRIS/,
///goocfstories/non?/:
Behind our playful plot, our intentions are serious: we want 
you to discover for yourself the welcome DIFFERENCE in 
cigarettes that philip morris can bring you.
Established Proof of that difference is too extensive to be 
detailed herebut pre-medical and chemistry students, who 
will be especially interested can get it in published form 
FREE, by writing our Research Dept.^Philip Morris Co., 
119 Fifth Ave., N. Y. _
philip MORRIS
Use These Words with Tongue-in-Cheek!
52lEM CS uL0 SM0 0B0by Y00Kq3
gih7tgatOgak 5EdsL4uSCsuslEC03saS ,RbEP
vA?gIkaak nge?wFkI 5/SMDC -bSMSuMR0 'C9 
duC -l0EL0 /SMDC 'fMSb0 'C3paVEC LCEl0 
LPSK0/sSuC CELC09 CVEC C'fVC /by (00l'Mf 'M ySub 
CVbSEC /u0 CS LPSK'Mf.
mkewtkTkea 5/EysMSSsP0MC3paV0 ('MEl 
Y'M/su-.
mAan8IgTiAv 5/'CVs00sbEPsd'K3pkRLCEC'R.
kOkthAeAge 500HlSSsL'M,0sEM3 p NbSP kl0uL'L9 
YV0b0 ?b00K Sbf'0L CSSK -lER0.
kr2whatOgak 50KLs-SLsC0YslEC03 s aS b0PSMG
LCbEC0. X
NIkekaAv 5(b0Ms0CCs'K3pNb0M$'0/.
AevweaAekeaO8 5xMsRSMsC'Ms0MCsl003 s U'CVSuC 
RSMCbSl.
TgvkIgak 5PELLs0bsEC03pvV0Y u-.
2keagTkaIAha 5-0MsCEPs0Csb'LC3 p m0BSC00 S( 
-0MCEP0C0b9 E -S-ulEb -S0C'R P0C0b.
hgOtagawIAge 5LElsuC0sEVsCSbsyEM3 p wM0 
YVS -EyL S(('R'El Cb'duC0.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1949
board to hear both sides, arrive at 
a decision, and report to the gov
ernor.
The panel was designed to serve 
as a last resort in settling the 
more stubborn of utility strikes 
which are so effective in paralyz
ing the activities of business and 
the individual.
Labor Consultant
He is the author of the Car
negie Mental Ability Tests and 
co-author of the book Executive 
Ability. He has had a somewhat 
closer relation with labor prob
lems in his capacity as consultant 
on labor relation problems for a 
number of industrial firms and 
trade associations, two of which 
are the American Transit associa
tion, and Doubleday and Com
pany.
In addition to Professor Cleeton, the arbitration panel is made 
up of eleven prominent educa-; 
tional, business, labor, and polit! 
ical leaders.
Talbot Pearson \ 
A ble Director
S n S Production Head 
Qualified In Musicals
Director for this years Scotch 
and Soda production of Molecule 
Man, Talbot Pearson, is no novice 
at directing musical shows.
Keenly interested in this type j 
of production, Mr. Pearson directI 
ed Trial by Jury three years 
ago. A fine musician himself, he 
is more than enthusiastic about 
this years book and music.
Mr. Pearson, an English born 
naturalized American citizen, has 
had twenty years experience with 
community theaters, among them 
the famous Dallas Little theater. 
While living in the west and 
southwest he was also on the 
faculty of the Max Reinhardt 
school in California.
OuRK'0L: ('M0 CSdERRS -'RKL ySu 
uYV0M ySu:b0 lSY .   RElPL 
ySu /SYM YV0M ySu:b0 C0ML0q
Scholarship 
Applications
Applications for scholarships for 
the year 1949-50 may be picked 
up in the Dean of Mens office. 
The completed forms must be 
turned in no later than April 18.
Duplicate Books Being 
Sold By Main Library
The CIT library is selling ex
library duplicates and some un
catalogued books at ten and twen
ty-five cents. The books are 
shelved in IH 360 and can be pur
chased at the circulation desk.
Play Tickets
Tickets for the drama de
partment production of Oliver 
Goldsmiths She Stoops to 
Conquer will be available in 
room 100 of Fine Arts at 4:00 
p. m. Friday. A student may 
present two registration cards, 
each of which entitles the hold
er to one ticket.
Greene Speaks 
At Conference
Painting Professor To 
Discuss Art Education
Professor Balcomb Greene of 
the P&D department is one of 
three American artists who will 
speak on Art EducationFocus 
for World Unity during the sev
enth annual conference of the 
Committee for Art Education. The 
conference, sponsored by the Mu
seum of Modern Art, will open 
Friday in New York city.
On the second day of the con
ference Professor Greene will talk 
about art education in the degreegranting professional school. The 
three day conference will be held 
in the New York Central high 
school building.
Yesterday, Professor Greene 
opened the annual Pepsi-Cola ex
hibition with a talk on Dictator
ship Without DirectionIn the 
Art of Today. This exhibition 
was held in the Butler Art insti
tute, Youngstown, Ohio.
DormBagpiper 
Here To Stay; 
Staff Grows
With the publishing of the sec
ond issue of the revived Dorm 
Bagpiper, the editors announced 
that the publication is here to 
stay and was not just a campaign 
idea.
Girls from the womens dorm
itory have been added to the staff 
and the second issue was thought 
to show great improvement over 
the first, which appeared just be
fore the recent council election.
Several features, sports write
ups, and general news of dormi
tory activities comprised most of 
the second edition. Editor Tom 
Sedgwick believes that the pub
lication is a real necessity to dorm 
life, and he plans to expand the 
staff in an effort to put out a bi
weekly edition at first and later 
a weekly edition.
Sedgwick believes that the pa
per should provide information 
and entertainment as well as ex
perience for residents of the 
dorms.Ornate a, it/etcr
Professional Attitude
Mr. Pearsons daughter, Anne, 
Is also playing a large part in 
the production as the dance di
rector. Although they do admit 
its difficult, the attitude of this 
father and daughter team on the 
job is quite professional.
Trying not to discuss Scotch and 
Soda at home, the Pearsons save 
their ideas for board meetings 
It wont last, skeptically com
ments Mrs. Pearson, Wait until 
rehearsals begin in earnestthen 
all Ill hear is Scotch and Soda.
Rehearsals Exhausting
And they have begun. After the 1 
first rehearsals, Mrs. Pearson was I 
exhausted; Mr. Pearson raved I 
about the fine script, courtesy of I 
Riebling and Putch, and the pul! 
sating music of Gene Mulligan.
The combination of the Pearj 
son family in full action will help j 
to make Molecule Man the show j 
of the year...S.//M.F.TlacAy Stxu&s Meant Rne 7>acco
Director Cleeton Appointed To 
State Labor Arbitration Panel
Director Glen U. Cleeton has been appointed a member of a 
twelve-man panel to arbitrate labor disputes in Pennsylvanias 
utilities industries. The panel, appointed by Governor Duff, has the 
duty of mediating such disputes as have resisted solution through 
the usual labor-management discussions.
Concerning the plan, Director^
Cleeton said: The arbitration!
plan established by the Pennsyl
vania law seems to me to be em
inently fair to both labor and 
management, and at the same 
time it protects the public inter
est. I believe its application will 
be successful.
Will Arbitrate
Under Pennsylvania law, em
ployees of utilities (gas, electric, 
water, and steam heat) must wait 
thirty days before beginning a 
strike. During this time the states 
labor department attempts to set
tle the matter. Failing in this, the 
two principal parties can either 
continue negotiations privately or 
enjoin the governor to appoint
three of the twelve men on the Director Glen U. Cleeton
OuRK'0L: ('M0 CSdERRS -uCL ySu SM CV0 b'fVC l0B0lpthe Lucky
levelto feel your level best, do your level best.
Thats why its important to remember that GY,CP IVBACW 
LWDM 9AMW 4E6D,,Eumild, ripe, light tobacco that makes a 
thoroughly enjoyable smoke. No wonder more independent tobacco, 
expertsauctioneers, buyers and warehousemensmoke Lucky 
Strike regularly than smoke the next two leading brands combined.
Light up a Lucky! Luckies fine tobacco picks you up when youre 
low, calms you down when youre tense. So get on the Lucky level 
where its fun to be alive. Get a carton and get started today!COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. MARCH 16, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Co-editors .......................... Robert Ellstrom, Frank Mihelich
Associate Editor .........................................Raymond Schwalm
Circulation Manager ........................................ George Dawes
Staff
George Bogovich, James Flaherty, Cecille Zellner
Editorial
Time For Elections
The time has come,' the walrus said, to speak of 
many things, and this week we want to bring up a ques
tion which has been discussed many times. But unfortunately, 
like the weather, everybody talks about it and nobody does 
anything about it. It seems about time that the evening school 
return to the former practice of holding elections. It has been 
many years since the students have voted for their representa
tives to council, and now something should be done.
It is not the fault of any one person or group, but rather 
a result of circumstances. During the war the enrollment drop
ped to so low a figure that it was impossible to get enough 
people out to hold an election. Student interest in extra-cur
ricular activity was at a minimum, and the group then in of
fice could not get a large enough body out to vote.
Now the registration has increased and apparently the 
interest of the students has been revived. You have the privilege 
and duty to request that Evening Student Council call a gen
eral election for the purpose of determining the proper num
ber of representatives from the various schools. Its up to you. 
You have the floor, so lets hear your side.
Every Nite This Week .
RAY EBERLE
Young America's Singing
gaAEMC'R zz4
Two Things That Go 
TogetherCoke and 5<
Ask for it either way 
... both trade-marks 
mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY Y 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
o 1949, The Coca-Cola Company
NewsAnd
V ie ws
Apparently we are not as wide 
awake as we pretend to be, for it 
has taken two previous attempts 
in News and Views to correct an 
error, and we are still wrong 
about the date of the square dance 
instructions. The correct informa
tion, please note, is that square 
dance instructions will be given 
March 18 and every other Friday 
evening thereafter.
The engineers are drawing lots 
to determine who will get the 
opportunity to preview with Dick 
Van Halanger the show to be giv
en at the Engineers banquet. 
Council wishes it could always get 
the fellows as eager as this to 
tackle its problems.
Although we dont know his 
name or in fact anything about 
him, we think the evening jani
tor in the administration building 
is the friendliest caretaker at Car
negie Tech. He has a kind word
h-0R'El OuMRV0L (Sb 
hCu/0MCL EM/ iuL'M0LLP0M
11:0 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
alscf
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.
Westinghouse Electric Speaker 
Headlines Engineering Banquet
Celebration Of Thirty-fourth Annual Dinner 
Will Include Entertainment And T)oor Prizes
The thirty-fourth annual Engineers Banquet will be held on 
Saturday evening. April 30, in the Gold room of the Roosevelt Hotel. 
Glen U. Cleeton, director of evening school, will be the toast
-master at this year's banquet. 
The principal speaker of the 
evening will be Frank R. Bene
dict, manager of the Headquar
ters Engineering department of 
the Westinghouse Electric and 
Manufacturing Co. Mr. Benedicts 
talk will be augmented with 
slides.
In addition to the principal 
speaker, other friends and guests 
of the Carnegie Tech evening 
school will be on hand to extend 
their greetings.
Peg Lanagan will provide the 
entertainment for the evening as 
she has been doing for the last 
ten or twelve years. Chairman of 
the banquet, Richard Van Halan
ger, promises to select the best 
from the acts Miss Lanagan has 
to offer.
Door prizes and souvenirs are 
arriving daily. This will make it 
possible for everyone present to 
go home with a load on . . . 
of souvenirs naturally.
The tickets for the banquet 
will be $3.50 and will be avail
able in the very near future from 
student council members and 
workers and from Mr. McKelway 
in IH 237-A.
For That Quick Bite, theSPORT (ENTER GRILL
z81z N'(CV gB0Mu0
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
and pleasant smile for everyone 
that passes him.
Incidentally council is. confident 
that it has solved a riddle that has 
been troubling it for some time, 
namely how to get students out 
to council affairs. The last two 
affairs were successes from the 
standpoint of attendance, and 
council feels that the increase was 
due to the fact that before each 
dance postal cards were sent to 
each evening student announcing 
the affair. Although this was an 
added cost council was willing to 
spend the money to interest stu
dents in an evening of enjoyment.
Our hurrahs this week are di
rected towards Tony Barbarino 
for generous assist when Social 
Chairman Ray Schwalm found 
himself without a public address 
system for the last dance. Help
ful Tony obtained one from West
inghouse and thus Ray was spared 
an embarrassing situation. The 
equipment was lent council free of 
cost. It is these little deeds that 
make otherwise discouraging tasks 
more bearable.
Sigma Delta Phi evening school 
fraternity held its monthly meet
ing at the Union. After a short 
business session the group and 
their guests were entertained at 
a merry social.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
OkwegImDh Tkeh hnw2
Oakland
CAMPUS CHOICE
kr2kIa Ik2gAIh
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE.MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
tt TEAKS EXPERIENCE
em skiw oWwrvnW
ARROW 
GORDON 
OXFORDS $3.95
Only Arrow oxfords have all 
these features:
 Perfect fitting Arrow 
collars
 Mitoga shape for 
trimness
 Sanforized label
 Anchored buttons
 Crisp, long-wearing 
Gordon oxford cloth.
See your Arrow dealer 
for Gordon oxfords todayl
ARROW
hnAIah EM/ aAkh
temkIUkgI  ngemokIvnAkNh  h2wIah hnAIah 
PA'Amwwvsmw.vAmwmvV.V.V.S
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATIantic 2964
,\AEW.
UinarcJ Studios 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in E hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Cornet Atwoad) Room 41S
ank
vO
Oco
Good Meals Anytime
Try IJs Soon 
TSbM9 e'fVC9 Sb eSSM
aV0 vlSRK
3814 Forbes St.

---------------------------------------------------

f AMERICA'S 
BaskestblsRu
MAKE YOURS THE M I KPlRSf-CtBitmT
MORE COUE6E STUOEMTS SMOKI CHESTERFIELDS THAN ANY OTHER|CfSARETTEptoftVcrvey
Mildness counts with me, 
and Chesterfields are 
MILDER-MUCH MILDER.
hagIIAe? Ae
1oAhh Ae ank mgIo1
g UgIekI iIwh. 2IwmtvaAwe
W/'ls....... ........... ...............
Copyright 1949, Fla~VV It Hrm Tomcob Co
TTTE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. MARCH 10. 1P49
Scotch *11 Soda Seeks All-Seliool 
Cooperation To Produce Revue
An all-school production is the aim of the Scotch and Soda 
club in their presentation of Molecule Man." As the cast stands 
now. thirty-six parts are already filled by students outside of the 
drama department. ?-----------------------------------------------------
With this policy in mind the 
club will soon issue a call for 
approximately 150 students in 
Margaret Morrison and Engineer
ing schools to work on crews.
A majority of vacancies can be 
filled by anyone who is eager to 
be a part of Scotch and Soda and 
is willing to work hard. There 
are, in comparison, relatively few 
positions open that require pre
vious theatrical know-how.
The experience and pleasure 
that are derived from being an 
integral part of the production is.
in reality, minor to the opportu
nity of making contacts outside of 
the department represented by 
the student.
Anyone and everyone who gets 
the slightest thrill of being around 
grease paint, or who thinks they 
would like the experience of be
ing backstage, watching and help
ing with the workings of a pro
fessionally staged musical show 
is asked to be on hand when 
Scotch and Soda issues its call for 
costume, paints, light, carpentry, 
props, work, sound, and make-up 
crews.
Liaison Committee 
4.dds Four Men 
In Latest Meeting
Four new undergraduate mem
bers were added to the StudentFaculty Liaison committee for the 
College of Engineering at its 
meeting last Wednesday. They are 
Walter Blenko, L. George Lang, 
Barry Rowles, and Howard Sine.
The primary problem consider
ed at the meeting was. the load on 
freshmen in the college as deter
mined by a poll made by Dr. Rosenbach. Questions were raised 
about the need for taking hygiene 
and physiral educaton courses. A 
course in sex-education was sug
gested to replace the present hy
giene course.
Dr. Miner reported that the 
committee studying the problem 
of cutting Saturday classes prior 
to vacations had decided that no 
holidays should begin on Satur
day.
AIGA Holds Election; 
Seaquist Is President
Newly elected officers of Car
negies student chapter of the 
American Institute of Graphic 
Arts are Calvin . Seaquist, presi
dent; Jack Braun, vice-president; 
Robert C. McCain, treasurer; Rich
ard Johnson, corresponding sec
retary; and Robert J, McCloud, re
cording secretary.
Metals Club Elects 
Horigan As President
Members of the Metals club, a 
student group of metallurgical en
gineers, held election of officers 
last week for the coming year.
Elected were president, Lee 
Horigan; vice-president and treas
urer, Jack Brown; and secretary, 
Mike Stavish. ,
SUNDAES
SANDWICHES 
MILKSHAKES
. .. at...Seemillers Forbes and Craig
