Inside
Calendar......
Classified....
Diversions...
features.......
Forum..........
Sports..........
Vox Populi...
..LL2..LLO,...L5
Sports
Hockey is here 
see page 9
Features
4&2LS-.
CMU forgets Martin Luther 
King, Jr.-  see page LI
Diversions
Movies! Movies!  
see page L5THE TARTAN
Volume 89, Issue 13Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190623 January 1995
Student Govt President gives guilty plea
IX-'''
\
& Sv
Tartan Rie Photo 
SGP Declan McCullagh at a rally last year.
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
Student Government President Declan 
McCullagh was convicted of harassment 
in a Pittsburgh court after being ar
rested on December 5 on a domestic 
violence charge. Donna Riley, a gradu
ate student in Engineering and Public 
Policy, brought charges after McCullagh 
allegedly pushed her down a flight of 
stairs during an argument. McCullagh 
was charged wih simple assault but 
pled guilty to harassment. His harass
ment conviction resulted in a $271 fine 
and a 90-day suspended sentence.
Im innocent of all charges and will be 
exonerated, said McCullagh. These 
charges are politically motivated. I have 
been victimized, as has the entire Uni
versity community.
According to the Pittsburgh Police re
port, After arguing for some time, [Rileyl 
said she was leaving [McCullaghs house! 
and taking her things with her.
Vocabulary of terms relating to abuse cases
According to the Womens Center and Shelter of Pittsburgh
Abuse occurs when the abuser coerces, ma
nipulates or forces someone to do what he or she 
wants without regard to the other person's rights 
or health. Abuse occurs on a continuous basis. It 
is the controlling behavior of one partner over 
another in an intimate relationship. This ultimately 
lowers the victim's selfesteem. The victim may be 
hurt physically, mentally or financially.
Battering has the same basic definition of abuse, 
but it is an ongoing pattern of behavior.
Domestic violence is physical, sexual or emo
tional abuse causing the victim to be controlled by 
a person with whom he or she is currently or had 
formerly been involved in an intimate relationship. 
Domestic violence is an ongoing pattern of behav
ior that forces the victim to do what the abuser 
wants without regard to the victims heath, .emo
tional well being, or civil and human rights. It is not 
a one time incident. Domestic violence is a term 
used with regard to intimate partners. It can be in 
a dating, gay, lesbian, or husband and wife rela
tionship.
Simple assault falls under Pennslyvania law 
code 2711. Under this law a police officer may 
place an individual under arrest without a warrant 
if he has probable cause that the defendant vio
lated the law. The officer may not make an arrest 
unless physical injury on the victim is present.
:  Emily Rosenthal
McCullagh said no. Riley went upstairs 
and got her things. They argued some . 
more and while at the top of the stairs, 
McCullagh pushed Riley down the stairs. 
Riley said she started screaming and 
McCullagh came from behind her while 
she was still on the ground and covered 
her mouth to stop her screaming... [the 
police] observed scratches to both of
Rileys arms. Riley also had a brush 
burn from the fall on the carpet on her 
right cheek. Also according to the re
port, when they [witnesses] went up
stairs to investigate, they heard a fe
male say let me go youre choking me. 
Riley declined comment on the details 
of the case. Domestic violence does hap
pen on college campuses and it does
happen at CMU, she said. She and 
McCullagh began dating in October.
Since Rileys court case, Crystal Trexel, 
a 1994 graduate in Industrial Manage
ment, has also come forward with abuse 
charges. I have been assaulted also, 
said Trexel. She and McCullagh started 
dating in March of 1993 and had been 
living together. Things were good for 
about a year, she said. Then, in the 
beginning of 94, we started fighting a 
lot.
When Trexel returned from a summer 
in Europe, she and McCullagh spent 
that weekend talking and arguing, said 
Trexel. Sunday, we broke up. The fol
lowing Sunday is when he got physical. 
He hit me once; I screamed, and he 
shoved his hand in my mouth to keep me 
quiet. I had bruises on my face and 
bruises on my arms. In hindsight, I 
should have called the police then, said 
Trexel. 
Trexel brought University Committee 
Please see McCULLAGH, page 5
Sudden deaths stun campus
Second year MSE student dies of alcohol poisoning
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
Justin Chambers, a secondyear Materials Science and En
gineering, student, died of alco
hol poisoning Sunday, Decem
ber 11, after attending a pri
vate Christmas party at Pi 
Lambda Phi fraternity.
Chambers, who was a mem
ber of r PiLam, was taken to 
Presbyterian University Hos
pital where he passed away. 
Michael Murphy, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs, said The coroner 
ruled that [the death was] from 
accidental alcohol poisoning. 
Campus Police said that 
Chambers Blood-Alcohol ConCourtesy of MSE 
Justin Chambers
centrtion (BAC) was 0.54.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
stated that Chambers had been
attending a private party at his 
fraternity house where alcohol 
was provided.
Partygoers said they saw 
Chambers several times, but 
never noticed anything wrong. 
Chambers friends maintained 
frequent checks on him through
out the night.
Murphy said that the Univer
sity had not yet decided on what 
repercussions, if any, would re
sult from the tragic incident. An 
officer of the fraternity said, Stu
dent Affairs released a policy and 
we are sticking by it.
Pi Lam did not offer any other 
comment. Since the death, Cam
pus Police have begun policing 
the common grounds of the fra
ternity. Campus police can go 
into any area they feel is neces
sary, said Murphy. Generally, 
we dont go into private areas..
Chambers fraternity broth
ers held a memorial service at 
the Fence on December 11. 
Murphy did not know Cham
bers personally. He did say, 
however, It is a tragic loss for 
the whole community, espe
cially for those who were close 
to him; its very sad.
The Tartan has learned 
through sources that PiLam 
might have to vacate their fra
ternity house within the next 
three weeks.
Final decisions on the move 
will be announced this week.
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
CFA freshman fatally wounded in gang-related shooting
m
Javon A. Thompson, a fresh
man art student, was brutally 
shot and murdered in a Garfield 
residence early in the morning 
of December 20 while playing a 
video game with a few of his 
friends. Benjamin Wright, an 
18-year-old gang member, en
tered the house of Leah Lam
bert through an unlocked base
ment door. He then proceeded 
to walk upstairs and wave a 
gun around. The victims imme
diately recognized him and 
threatened to call the police as 
they had done in the past. Wright 
became panicky and began wav
ing the gun around saying, This 
is a jack.
This jack resulted in one death 
and two severe injuries. Wayne 
Scott, an 18-year-old freshman 
at Clarion University, was shot 
in the left buttock and thigh as he 
ran for the stairs. Larry Milton, a 
17-year-old senior at Peabody 
High School, was shot five times 
in the left leg and arm while run
ning for the door. And Thompson
IS
Courtesy of Gloria Hill at CMAP 
Javon Thompson
was fatally shot in the chest 
and stomach.
Thompson started his career 
at Carnegie Mellon at the be
ginning of the Fall 94 semes
ter. He had previously taken 
advantage of CMUs Sleeping 
BagWeekendinhis senior year 
of high school. Mike Beard, a 
senior art major, was his host. 
I was really excited to see an
other African-American in the 
Art department . Javon had the 
talent to make it, there was no 
doubt about that. The last week 
Please see JAVON, page 3
In Morewood Gardens...Scotland Yard rises again
Jason Siegendorf /Tartan Photographer
Students enjoy their meals and each other's company when Scotland 
Yard reopened its doors Friday.
Hock Hey iskh re prsaokr gokroi
By MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
After more than a semester of 
discussion, compromise, and 
waiting, Scotland Yard opened at 
8 pm Friday night in the Faculty 
Dining Room of Morewood Gar
dens.
There has not been a Scotland 
Yard since the demolition of the part of administration that 
Skibo. There is space reserved in Scotland Yard would lose too 
the new University Center for much money. Director of Dining 
ScotlandYard,butmanystudents Please see, YARD page 5
--------
wanted a Scotland Yard for the 
interim. Early in the Fall 94 se
mester, there was a planning 
meeting involving students and 
Student Government President 
Declan McCullagh. The purpose 
of this meeting was to get student 
input toward what the Yard 
should be.
However, there was concern on
*y .L24.L& S-IX'L
%rtan Staffwriter
I After much deliberation by the Presi
dential Committee on Dining, the future 
(fWean Wok has been decided. AccordPg to Mark Hamlin, director of dining 
ervices, the former Wean Wok will be 
Nrlocated to room 221 of the Student
The location (in Wean) is not appropri
ate as a food service outlet;it is not 
ventilated, has little or no trash disposal 
capacity, no seating, and is a long way 
from the service elevators, Hamlin said, 
The menu has become more popular 
over the last two years, and has out
grown the space provided for it.
Over the summer, there was  push 
Renter, the area formerly reserved for by the residents of Wean to have the food 
|ne GSO coffeehouse. If everything goes carts removed, but when the students 
fe planned, pending review by the returned, there was a backlash from 
fOunty Health Department, the new student government to avoid the rejatery will open on Monday, January moval.
fi* Since the name must obviously Dining Services was directed to find a 
;nge, a name contest will be conducted more appropriate location. The search 
week. was conducted by the Presidents Comi Michael Rosenthal, the SDC food chair, mittee on Dining, which considered 
that the residents of Wean Hall
Brenden 0. Mielke, chairman of the 
Presidential Committee on Dining said, 
After a great deal of research the new 
location was selected. People contacted 
regarding the room included Anne 
Witcher [Assistant Dean of Student Af
fairs], Tim Mallow, member of GSO, 
Marsha Gerwig, Martin Dixon [of the] 
Activities Board, Michael Murphy, [Dean 
of Student Affairs, and] Paul Tellers, 
the University Architect, were all con
sulted. The final decision was made be 
Dr. Patrick Keating, VP of Business 
Affairs, at a meeting with Mark Hamlin, 
Declan McCullagh [Student Body Presi
dent], Dean Witchner, and myself.
The new, soon-to-be-named eatery will 
operate with the same hours that Wean 
Wok currently has, 11:00 am to 1:45 pm.... --------  wx ..v-uu GSIA, Porter Hall, Morewood, and Scaife  xx.w u w
j,ave been increasingly complaining Hall, but these buildings did not offer However, Hamlin said, We hope to exout Wean Wok for the last several enough space. There are plans to uppand the menu offerings into deli and 
[ears. They complain that the trash, grade vending machines in selected acasalad selections with later operating 
>lse, and smell are major problems demic buildings, by offering coffee and hours. Right now the hours being con"it disturb their working environment, fresh sandwiches. sidered are 11:00 am to 9:00 pm.
Tartan File Photo ;
The currently overcrowded Wean Wok, above, will soon move to the second floor of 
the Student Center, ending the lack of a dining facility there. The move will provide 
students with an accessible eating facility.
)

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995
SiT
un
Ski
ifZcr
fMSk
mni

9miZ'ssmlfS#7Jr
Mlflr^grTHIS JUST IN...
9cCckoho ocirMUscyo 
fcshoh tnLuu aocrMh
JAPAN, January 21  Japan was 
rocked by an earthquake which mea
sured 7.2 on the Richter scale on Tues
day.
With a death toll of more than 4,900, 
it was the countrys deadliest earth
quake in more than 70 years. As many 
as 50,000 buildings were damaged or 
destroyed, and 230 people are still 
listed as missing. Nearly 25,500 people 
were injured.
Japanese Prime minister Tomiichi 
Murayama said on Friday that his 
coalition governments response to the 
quake had been confused.
It is imperative that we rethink 
and restructure our clisaster-relief 
policies, Murayama said.
About 36,000 soldiers, police, and 
firemen have been sent as part of an 
accelerated relief operation, as well as 
rescue teams from Switzerland and 
Prance.
The area which was hardest hit was 
Kobe, a coast city with a population of
1.4 million people. Osaka, Japans sec
ond-largest cby and a financial hub, 
also suffered significant damage.
Tokyo escaped unscathed. In the city 
of Kyoto, bomt to many cultural trea
sures, several priceless statues and 
temple buildings were i-eported as 
damaged.
The epicenter of the quake was in
the village of Hokudan on Awaji Is
land. The island is sparsely popu
lated, but what was there was de
stroyed. The grounds of the Shinsenji 
temple were ripped by huge cracks. 
Sacred objects from the altar were in 
cardboard boxes in. frontofthe temple.
The quake also shattered Japans 
belief that its newer buildings and 
roads would go undamaged in a quake, 
unlike American roads.
Sections of several major express
ways collapsed, despite sophisticated 
engineering.
Quakes this size often trigger tsu
nami, or tidal waves, which are often 
as destructive as the earthquake. 
However, since the quake was cen
tered in the Inland Sea, almost sur
rounded by land, there were no tsu
nami.
Ironically, some of the flimsiest 
buildings remained intact. Shacks 
with tar-paper roofs remained stand
ing, while homes with, heavy tile roofs 
collapsed.
Late Saturday the Kobe area was 
shaken by an aftershock measuring 
4.1, the strongest aftershock to date. 
More than 500 aftershocks have 
shaken the area.
A quake of magnitude 6.2 shook 
Japan's northern island on Saturday, 
but there were no reports of damage.
psKfKao ,eJ,oi yK..h -
JUNCTBEIT LID JUNCTION, Israel, Janu
ary 22  Eighteen people were killed 
and more than 60 were injured when a 
suicide bomber detonated two explosives 
near a bus stop crowded with Israeli 
sodiers. The attack was claimed by Is
lamic militants.
After rushing to fche scene, Prime Min
ister Yitzhak Rabin said most of the 
dead were soldiers. Many of the soldiers 
were members) of a unit deployed to 
guard bus stops1.
Moshe ZariaiJ, a warden at a nearby 
prison, said I'got up, and people were 
screaming. From my experience in the 
army, it was a very big bomb.
The two Explosions were about three 
minutes apart. The first erupted near a 
kiosk. S-fcldiers began chasing a man, 
who the set off an even more powerful 
bomb ^Crapped to his body.
ThSre is no doubt in my mind that 
this action now is another attempt by 
the extreme Islamic terror groups to 
achieve their dual goal of killing Israelis 
and halting the peace process, said 
Rabin.
An anonymous caller to news offices in
the Palestinian self-rule area of the Gaza 
Strip claimed the attack was the respon
sibility of the Islamic Jihad, a radical 
offshoot of the Islamic Resistance Move
ment.
The claim did not follow the usual 
pattern of a written statement or video 
announcing the name of the suicide at
tacker. Islamic militants opposed to the 
Israel-PLO accord have carried out a 
series of similar attacks inside Israel, 
including a Tel Aviv bus bombing in 
October that claimed 22 lives.
Rabin toured the bombing site while a 
few spectators heckled him with shouts 
of How much longer?
We have to grit our teeth and go on, 
said Shulamit Aloni, minister of com
munications. She said attempts by the 
settlers to keep the West Bank would 
create a binational state that would have 
to cope with such attacks forever.
There was a group of people around 
the snack bar, and they flew into the air 
from the blast. I saw parts of their bod
ies. Many people were injured. Its a 
very horrible sight, a witness named 
Eitan said on army radio.
Russian soldiers capture palace
GROZNY, Russia, January 19  On 
Thursday, Russian troops hoisted their 
flag over Chechnyas presidential pal
ace, the symbol of the republics inde
pendence drive during five weeks of war 
with Moscow.
Earlier on Thursday, Chechen fight
ers had abandoned the palace as well as 
the railroad station. The withdrawal 
gave the Russians control of Groznys 
center. It was not immediately clear if 
the rebels would fight to regain the cen
ter or move to the hills to fight a guer
rilla war.
Rebel fighter Aindi Beksultanov said 
there were no plans to retake the build
ing. Why? Its just a skeleton.
In the ground assault, a few hundred 
Chechens had battled one of the worlds 
most powerful armies to standstill in the 
citys center. The first prisoner exchange 
of the war took place on Wednesday. 
One Chechen was exchanged for one 
Russian. At a Kremlin meeting on 
Wednesday, Russian President Boris 
Yeltsin said that direct peace talks with 
Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev 
were out of the question.
Gingrich accuses Democrats
WASHINGTON, January 19 (DJ)  
House Speaker Newt Gingrich today 
accused Democrats of using a strategy of 
personal destruction against him 
rather than debating Republicans on 
the issues.
A day after bitter shouting matches on 
the House floor over Democratic criti
cism of the speaker, a feisty Gingrich 
said he finds the opposition tactics 
pretty sobering in America.
I expect Democrats to take every shot 
they can get, Gingrich told his regular 
pre-session news conference.
He quoted from a column saying Demo
crats were trying to destroy Gingrich 
and added: I think a strategy based on 
the personal destruction of somebody is 
pretty amazing if its a genuine strategy. 
Theyre not used to being in the opposi
tion. Theyre not used to having to obey 
the rules and its a new experience for 
them.
Before Gingrich spoke, representatives 
of both parties went at it again in televi
sion interviews.
It seems to me youre just seeing a 
play here of people who have decided 
that disruptive tactics will substitute 
for their lack of ideas, Gingrich ally 
Rep. Robert Walker, R-Pa., said on Fox 
Morning News.
Rep. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., appear
ing with Walker, responded. What you 
saw yesterday is that absolute power
breeds an arrogance ... We will not per
mit ourselves to be gagged. We will not 
create precedence for stopping free 
speech on the House floor.
Pipe bomb stops Presidential visit
LOS ANGELES, January 17  Presi
dent Clinton canceled his scheduled tour 
of California State University when de
vices resembling pipe bombs were found 
in an earthquake-damaged building.
Clinton went ahead with his sched
uled speech, but security seemed tighter 
than usual. The Secret Service investi
gated, but they did not believe there was 
a bomb.
Officer Rico Romera, a spokesman for 
the Los Angeles Police department, said 
The bomb squad was called at 7:40 am 
after the Secret Service found three de
vices resembling pipe bombs. They are 
still there. Thats all.
Secret service spokesman Carl Meyer 
said that during a routine search of the 
science building, investigators found 
some pipes in a cabinet, including a 
capped pipe. Bomb-sniffing dogs were 
brought in, and one of them found a 
potential concern.
White House Press Secretary Mike 
McCurry said, erring on the side of 
caution, we decided to scrub the tour.
The unidentified material was found 
during a routine security sweep. The 
construction workers who were working 
in that building werent able to identify 
the material quickly, erring on the side 
of caution. (We) thought it would be 
smarter for us to make some changes, 
said McCurry.
U.N. to assume control over Haiti
UNITED NATIONS, January 18  
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali proposed that the U.N. 
assume control of the Haiti military op
eration at the end of March. However, 
his report fell short of ringing endorse
ment of U.S. security assessments in 
Haiti.
The Security Council still needs to 
give final authorization for the mission. 
Members will begin serious consider
ation this week and vote before January 
31. Russia, which in the past has de
layed Haiti resolutions in protest against 
lack of U.N. support for its Georgian 
operations, wants time to study the re
ports and not rush decisions.
The official report will include a state
ment from the U.S. command in Haiti 
certifying that a secure and stable envi
ronment exists.
Boutros-Ghali warned that security 
was fragile in Haiti and that murders 
and rapes were on the increase. He added 
that political violence had decreased
appreciably since the U.S. intervened^ 
October. Overall, there is a feeling 
liberty and a sense of security which di; 
not exist previously, he said.
At most, the U.S. had 21,000 troops ij 
Haiti. About 6,000 remain as well 
2,000 troops from other nations.
Rams to move to St. Louis in 95
ST. LOUIS, January 17After spend
ing 49 years in southern California, the 
Los Angeles Rams will move to St. Loui; 
this fall. St. Louis has been without 
professional football since the Cardinal: 
moved to Arizona in 1987.
St. Louis was one of the cities which 
recently lost a bid for an expansion team. 
A new domed stadium is being built foi 
football.
The NFL must still officially approve 
the move, but that is considered a for. 
mality. The club is hoping to open the 
1995 season in St. Louis.
As a part of the deal, the teams owner 
sold 30 percent of the club to a St. Loui; 
businessman for about $60 million, ac
cording to the Los Angeles Times.
Simpson trial to open today
LOS ANGELES, January 20Open 
ing statements in the O.J. Simpson mur 
der case will occur on Monday, January 
23. This past week, prosecutors offi 
cially claimed for the first time that 
Simpson beat his first wife. This accusa 
tion contradicts Marquerite Simpson 
Thomas comments to police, in which 
she denied being abused. Thomas is re 
sisting a prosecution subpoena, and the 
accusations were filed in an effort to 
force her to testify at Simpsons trial.
On Thursday, Judge Lance Ito rulei 
that allegations that Sirhpson beat am 
stalked his ex-wife, Nicole Brown 
Simpson, for years before her murdei 
can be admitted as evidence. Prosecu 
tors will say that Simpson killed his wife 
and her friend Ronald Goldman in 
jealous rage.
Bloomingdales employees will testify 
that Simpson had gloves from the Ne 
York store identical to the ones staine< 
with blood after the killings. However 
Ito agreed to a defense request to bar 
this material from early stages of the 
trial.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Briefs Compiled by 
Max Chittister
Layout by 
Max Chittister
Mellon College of Science 
Merit Award and Special Award
Please help honor MCS's staff members by submitting your nomination for our newly 
established MCS Merit Award. Nominations are also being solicited for the Special 
Award described below. 
One Merit Award, designed to salute excellence, will be given each year to recognize a 
staff member (or team) who has shown outstanding meritorious service to the College. 
(For the purpose of this award, team is defined as a group organized to work together.) 
In addition to the Merit Award, the committee will review nominations for and reserve 
the option to confer a Special Award to honor someone outside MCS for outstanding 
service to the College. 
Nominations are solicited from the entire CMU community  including administrators, 
fellow staff members, faculty, and students. NOTE: Committee members are not eligible 
to be a nominee or nominator. 
Nomination forms are available In the MCS Dean's Office and In each Department office 
and should be submitted to Everett Tademy, Whitfield Hall, or via email to 
etl 9@andrew.cmu.edu. You may submit more than one nomination. 
The deadline for submitting nominations is February 15, 1995. The awards ceremony 
will be on May 1, 1995.
If you have any questions or suggestions, please bring them to the attention of any 
member of the MCS Staff Recognition Committee. Your support of this program will 
help promote excellence in MCS.
The MCS Staff Recognition Awards Committee:
Valerie Bridges, Chemistry 
Sue Haslett, MCS DeanS Office 
Patsy McCarthy, Mathematics
Everett Tademy, EEO/AA (ex-officio)
Daniel Farkas, STC
Franclne Johnson, Mathematics
Elvira Prologo, PSC 
Helena Frey, Biology 
Robert Kraemer, Physics
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences (PGSS)
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU is available 
with the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. 
The PGSS is a five-week summer school for extremely 
talented high school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching 
Assistant/Counselor appointments are available in the areas 
of biology, chemistry, physics, computer science and 
mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the 
start of the program. Preference will be given to applicants 
with outstanding academic records. You will be expected to 
simultaneously serve as dormitory counselor and to live in 
the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the PGSS 
disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct program and social 
activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1100 - $1500 
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board 
PGSS is in session from June 25 to July 29. 
Counselor duties begin June 21, and July 29. 
Applications are available in DH 2201 or MI 271.
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, Ext. 8-6669. 
Application Deadline: March 3, 1995.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 19953
CMU student gunned down in gang-related attack
jAVON, from page 1 ------- ------------------------------------------------------  .jAVON, from page 1
of exams, I was discussing Javon with a 
b professor that the two of us shared. I 
asked the professor how Javon was ad
justing, and the professor thought that 
the process was going along well. Then a 
few days later, I saw that he had been 
shot. I was upset to see so much poten
tial cut short like that. I also thought it 
was really ironic that Javon died in the 
same manner that he fought so hard to 
stay away from.
Adrian Young, Javon Thompsons 
mother, expressed how her son despised 
gangs. He felt they were senseless. He 
was raised in a church, she said, He 
believed in love among his brethren. He 
I didnt understand what they were angry 
I about.
Thompson explained how Thompson 
supported Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
[He] was a pioneer for blacks. When 
asked how Thompson would have felt 
about attending class on Dr. Kings holi
day, Young replied, Javon would feel 
that was an insult... because of what he 
stood for, she said.
Young described Thompson as artis
tic. He loved colors ... he would use 
crayons on the walls ... when he was 
three years old.
Thompson was a resident in Shirley 
Apartments during the Fall 94 semes
ter. His Resident Assistant, Suzanne 
Paddock, said, Although I didnt know 
him that well, he seemed like a good kid. 
He kept to himself and spent a lot of time 
in his room. He got along well with the 
other residents so I had no complaints. 
It was a shame to hear what happened. 
Sgt. Bill Ricci of Campus Police felt 
the same way. I wasnt on campus when 
the incident occurred, but when I re
turned to campus and picked up the 
shuttle roster it hit me hard. Javon was 
a super kid. He drove Escort Shuttle for 
me and I never had any problems with 
him. It was a terrible shock to see his life 
end so soon in such a violent manner. 
Thompson was also involved in the 
Carnegie Mellon Action Project, or 
CMAP. The director of CMAP, Gloria
Kerry Hagen /Tartan Photographer
An unnamed person(s) took the liberty of decorating the elevator in CFA as a 
memorial to Javon Thompson.
Hill, was equally upset to hear what had 
happened. Javon had taken the sum
mer bridge program with CMAP and he 
showed a lot of promise. He was fighting 
so hard to leave behind all the gang 
violence of his neighborhood and he saw 
CMU as a payoff for being good. Al
though he had been accepted to other 
schools, he felt that CMU was the best 
place to become the best that he could 
be. He was adjusting to life on campus 
very well. He was very excited and proud 
to have been a student at CMU. He 
viewed Carnegie Mellon as an alterna
tive to all of the violence that he had 
watched as a child growing up. 
Students at CMU also felt that 
Thompsons death was an unnecessary 
tragedy. The third floor of the CFA build
ing holds a tribute to Thompson outside 
of the Art offices. However, perhaps the 
most touching tribute is to take a ride in 
the CFA elevator.
Standing in the elevator, one begins 
to get a sense of what type of person
Javon Thompson was. The first thing 
that is noticed in stepping into the eleva
tor is the back wall, which plainly states, 
R.I.P. Javon A. Thompson 1976-1994. 
Then as the doors close. The phrase 
When will the innocent stop being pun
ished for their innocence?Bob Marley 
appears. This directs attention to the 
other walls of the elevator.
Thompson was very active in his com
munity, through such programs as Ur
ban Youth Action. This program helped 
young people become successful in aca
demics.
He wrote a very personal article for 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which ap
peared on July 16,1994. It was a part of 
the My Generation column. The ar
ticle begins with two accounts of racism 
in the earlier days of America.
The first account is of Martin Luther 
King, and the second involves Rosa 
Parks. Thompson states, How happy I 
was not to have lived in those times. But 
what time do I live in?
Is Civil Rights a Forgotten Cause?
[Ed. Note The following article appeared in 
the PitlsburghPosl-Gazette on July 16,1994.]
The assassination of Martin Luther King, 
though heinous, heldoutthe promise of strength
ening the black community. We were going to 
realize his dream. ! can remember asking my 
parents about the days of "black solidarity' and 
the transition of blacks.
My mother and grandmother vividly recall the 
account of Rosa Parks defiance of white South
erners in staking her claim to a seat not avail
able to her. A black woman not being able to ride 
in the front of the busl How happy I was not to 
have lived in those times. But what time do 1 live 
in?
I have grown up in Pittsburgh as gangs began 
to blossom and flourish. I have watched my 
peers assess themselves by their success in 
the drug trade or who was considered the most 
vicious. I have watched in horror as many of my 
friends died meaningless deaths. It became 
dangerous for me to go to Homewood to contfnue my lifetime friendship with my own cousin. 
He was warned to renounce me because i lived 
in Garfield and was considered to be a Blood."
I had to maneuver around neighborhood gang
sters. " 1 barely escaped the hostility shown to 
those who tried to remain neutral.
My God-given gift as an artist helped me 
escape the fateful results of fence-sitting and; 
gave me acceptance with my peers. But escape 
only disheartened me further as 1 surveyed the 
fragmented state of our generation-with no 
purpose and without a cause, i began to think 
about all that had been done for us as a people 
historically and 1 became angry. 1 watched my 
peers wearing Malcolm X attire, selling drugs, 
hating each other, killing each other. Now i pose 
this question: Is civil rights a forgotten cause?
^ Oh yes, you will see plenty of today's blackyouth 
;sporting black slogans, wearing red, black and 
green, and blaming the white man for all their 
ailments, but what have we done as a genera; tionto preserve the rights ourforefathers fought 
: and died for? What has caused the lethargy that 
 has become a slap in the face of our patriarchs? 
How could we turn the blood, sweat, and tears 
of the past into shame and hopelessness? It 
calls to mind the old adage, If we forget the 
past, we are doomed to repeat it. This time we 
are our own slave masters and we show no 
mercy, no redemptive qualities. We have emascuiated our hard-earned civil rights. After all, you 
cant vote in jail. Only eight percent of this 
i nations population is black, but we represent
53 percent of the prison population, according 
to the FBI. Where is our political power? Ourgeneration has demeaned the voting process. 
We have become so diluted and weakened as a 
people (especially black men in numbers), that 
our voice is no longer heard on Capital Hill. 
Hampered by stiff jail sentences and high mor
tality rates, the voice of blacks has become a 
whisper. We are considered an endangered 
species.
No one is refuting that the system has under
mined most of our civil rights. Take, for in
stance, Bakke vs. the California Board of Re
gents ruling which ended the quota system. 
Most blacks would have stood at closed doors 
if whites were not forced to hire a certain 
number of blacks. There is no question that the 
damage done by this is irreparable. Whites 
screaming "reverse discrimination" managed 
to overturn a major milestone for blacks.
No longer .can. we rely upon civil rights. We 
must sharpen all tools available to us to carve 
outour future. It has to start with us as a people. 
Because we dont have strong young leaders 
today, the government no longer respects us. if 
our generation does not rise above the horrible 
stench we have created, we will never be re
spected or heard.
We must understand why the Civil Rights Act 
was necessary to facilitate change for blacks. 
8efore the Emancipation Proclamation was is
sued Jan. 1, 1863, and until the Senate ap
proved it on Dec. 18, 1865,: blacks had no 
rights. President Lincoln proclaimed that, Ail 
persons held as slaves henceforth shall be 
free." U.S. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood 
Marshall, the Rev. Martin Luther King and oth
ers changed the course of history for blacks. We 
made great leaps in education, politics, free
dom of speech and the pursuit of personal 
happiness. How have we regressed to such-a 
dehumanizing state? ;;
Dr. King said, "if you are afloor sweeper then 
be the best floor sweeper you canbe." My motto 
is. Be the best that you can be. We are 
confronted daily with poverty, drugs, gang vio
lence, single-parent families, welfare and police 
brutality . but we must not focus on the 
quicksand, but on the way out. As 1 hold tight to 
my education and family values, and with the 
support of my mentors; i mean to rise above this 
quicksand. Maybe a few will grab on to me and 
find their way out as well.
javon A. Thompson, a graduate of Peabody 
High School, has just enrolled at Carnegie 
Mellon University.
Fire strikes Theta
By MAX CmTTISTER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
At approximately 1:30 am on 
January 20, a fire was reported 
at the Kappa Alpha Theta so
rority house. The origin of the 
fire was Margaret Morrison 
Apartment 104.
By the time city fire units 
responded, LynnBabyak, a jun
ior Biology major, had used a 
dry chemical fire extinguisher, 
which knocked down and ex
tinguished the fire. Pittsburgh 
fire crews found smoldering 
debris and a mattress. The 
mattress was thrown out the 
window and the debris was put
in a; third floor shower stall 
with the water on. The city fire 
department used a smoke ejec
tor to exhaust.smoke from the 
third floor.
The victim was Michelle 
Forney, ajuniorChemistry ma
jor. Apparently, she had left 
her room with a candle burn
ing on her desk. She was out of 
the room for about fifteen min
utes before the fire alarm went 
off.
There was damage to a desk, 
bookcase, bed frame, mattress, 
and personal belongings owned 
by Forney and her roommate, 
Marissa Timperman,: a junior 
Drama major.
CIT earns grant from Hewlett Packard
By JASON HEINLEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Hewlett Packard corpora
tion recently awarded a 1.2 mil
lion dollar grant to the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology to be di
vided among the Mechanical En
gineering and the Electrical and 
Computer Engineering depart
ments. There is a stipulation in 
the grant that 20 percent of the 
total amount would be provided 
by Carnegie Mellon, so that 
Hewlett-Packard will actually be 
donating a total of about 
$960,000.
Within the mechanical engi
neering department, much of the 
money is aimed at workstations
and supporting peripherals that 
will be used to create open labo
ratories, said Dr. Stephen Di
rector, Dean of CIT. Director said 
the open laboratories are places 
that students will have access to
24 hours a day, and be able to do 
experiments and run simula
tions. Students will be able to do 
things that they are not able to do 
now because we dont have the 
equipment or the supporting fa
cilities.
The new equipment will be 
used for measuring, recording and 
analysis; essentially, almost all 
mechanical engineering experi
ments, said Dr. Adnan Akay, 
Head of the Mechanical Engineer
ing Department. Were thrilled.
Its not every day that you get 
three quarters of a million dol
lars worth of equipment.
The new labs and equipment 
will also go a long way toward 
keepingthe mechanical engineer
ing department competitive with 
other universities. Akay said, We 
already had decent laboratories, 
but now were really looking to be 
the best in the country.
The grant also provides funds 
for two new labs in the depart
ment of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering. Dr. Robert White, 
head of the Electrical and Com
puter Engineering Department, 
said the grant will provide both a 
logic design lab and a semicon
ductor lab. In the logic design lab,
students will work in teams to 
design and develop a basic micro
processor.
In the semi-conductor lab stu
dents will measure electrical 
characteristics of semiconductor 
devices, White said.
It [the EE labs] will have a 
digital systems focus, said Di
rector, and it will be used as a 
first step toward the realization 
of what they call their virtual 
laboratory.
[It] is a concept whereby the 
students can run experiments 
from their dorm rooms and other 
places on campus, access the in
formation on the network, and 
run experiments as if they were 
in the laboratories, he said.
Student Discount
HAIRCUTS $17.95
A*(Men and Women)
The Philip Pclusi* salons offer great 
savings on the exclusive Volumetries haircut 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric3 haircut and related services for just 
$16.95 with selected designers. Every haircut 
appointment includes consultation, shampoo
ing, conditioning, blow dry and styling and a 
styling lesson!
Present your Student ID Card to get your 
Student Discount Card.
Ask About Design Team 
Training Sessions, Haircuts Just $ 10.95.
A Cut Above the Rest'
Squirrel Hill 
521-1200 
One Oxford Center 
261-550 
Century III Mall 
55-940 
Villcge Square Meli 
833-0770
Ross Park Mall 
36-1555 
Robinson Town Centre 
788-0204 
Monroeville Mall 
372-7520 
Westmoreland ^cil 
336-70
29 Years
SCHOOLOFTHEARTS
International Theatre Workshop in Amsterdam
June 19-August 5,1995
MelonCgf
This intensive seven-week workshop provides 
professional training in contemporary acting, 
performance, and dance techniques.
You will train with an international faculty of 
accomplished theatre and dance professionals 
in newly renovated studios. Students live in 
the center of Amsterdam with easy access to 
concert halls, theatres, and art museums.
Special summer activities include the 
International Theatre School Festival, the 
acclaimed Holland Festival, and other perfor
mances in contemporary dance, jazz, 
and theatre.
For more information, return the coupon 
or call (212)998-1811.
Tisch School of the Arts New York University Summer Session 721 Broadway, Room 1258 New York, N.Y. 10003
New York University is an affirmative 
action/equal opportunity institution.
? Please send me more information on the International Theatre ttbrkshop in Amsterdam.? I would also like an NYU Summer Bulletin with course listing) In New York
Name
AddressApt. No.
City 
( )
State Zip Code
1W.No.Soc.Sec.No.
School AttendingA32
tin CampusInterviews
There are platforms and protocols, operating systems and architectures. 
But theres only one standard: Adobe Systems Incorporated. We are 
the unquestioned leader in communication and presentation tools. How 
 have we earned that position? Simple. The power of individual thought. 
We are sparked by a creative, intelligent team that is focused on 
constantly raising the standard for excellence and innovation in 
product technology. If the standard you set for your future is just as 
high as ours, sign up for an interview today and learn more about the 
following opportunities.
Driver Development Engineer 
Associate QA Engineer 
OEM Product Support Engineer 
Associate Software Engineer 
Members of Technical Staff
(Application Development, Systems QA, Systems Engineering)
Positions based in Mountain View, CA and/or Seattle, WA
Interviews will he held:
Thursday, January 26th and Friday, January 27th 
Carnegie Mellon Career Center
If unable to attend, please send your resume to: 
Adobe Systems Incorporated, College Relations, 
1625 Charleston Road, RO. Box 7900, Mountain 
View, CA 94039-7900. We are an Equal Opportu| nity/Affirmative Action Employer and Welcome and 
Encourage Diversity in the Workplace. PrincipalsOnly, please.  1995 Adobe Systems Incorporalo!. Ali right* reserved. 
Adobe .jid the Adobe logo are trademark* of Adobe System Incorporai) or 
iu subsidiaries and may l>c registered in certain jurisdictions.
335PT

---------------------------------------------------

-Iv-!I -Iv-!5
Mastery Retake
pcrsiacn 9cksci !
eligible students can sign up by contacting: Becky Clark 
Wean Hall 3111 
X8-6737
Only $1,736. Or about $33 a month.'
* - ' 7.&5I/P^l
Macintosh Performa' 636 w/CD 
8MB RAM/250MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
14" color display, keyboard, mouse and all the 
software you're likely to need.
Only $2,994. Or about $58. a month*
Macintosh Performa' 6115 w/CD 
8MB R/IM/350MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
15" color display keyboard, mouse and all 
the software youre likely to need.
Only $5,021. Or about $95 a month.'
Power Macintosh' 8100/80 w/CD 
16MB RAM/500MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
17" color display, keyboard and mouse.
Before you need to make a single payment, ski season will have passed, the groundhog will have seen his shadow and youll have consumed your bodys weight in pepperoni.
BUY AN APPLE MACINTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER.'
Were not just making it easier for you to buy a Macintosh" were making it easier 
for you to buy something else you really needtime. Because for a limited 
time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can 
own a Macintosh personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph
erals without making a single payment for 90 days: Combine that with no hassles, 
no complicated forms and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use 
Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day 
Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the . ^
power every student needs. The power to be your best? ADDIC Vt
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
^Deferred Apple Computer Loan offer expires February 17, 995. No payment of interest or principal will be requiredfor 90 (lays. (Some resellers may require a deposit to bold merchandise while loan is being approved.) Interest accruing during Ibis 90-<lay period will be ailded to principal, and tbe 
principal amount, as so increased, will tbereafler bear interest which will be included in the repayment schedule. Monthly payment is an estimate based on tbe following information: For tbe Peiforma' 636 w/CD iystem shown bere, a purchase price of $1,85752, which includes 7% sales tax; intituling 
loan fees, tbe total loan rnmint is $1,965.63, which residts in a monthly payment obligation of $33- For tbe Perfomuf 6115 w/CD system shown bere, a purchase price of $3,20358, which indutles 7% sales tax; including loan fees, tbe total loan amount is $3390.03, wbicb results in a monthly payment 
obligation of $58 For tbe Power Macintosh' 8100/80 w/CD system shown bere, a purchase price of $5372.47, which indutles 7% sales tax; including loan fees, tbe total loan amount is $5,685-15, ubich results in a monthly payment obligation of $95 Computer system prices, loan amounts ami sales taxes 
may vary. See your authorized Apple Camjm Reseller or representaliivfor current system prices, loan arul tax amounts. Loans arefor a minimum of $1,000 to a maximum of $10,000. Vou may take out more than one loan, but tbe total ofall loans cannot exceed $10,000 annually. A 55% loan 
origination fee will be adtled to tbe requested loan amount. Tbe interest rate is lariable, based on tbe commercial paper rate plus 535% For tbe month ofNoivmber, 19% tbe interest rale was 10.85% with an Annual Percento,ge Kale of 12.10%. 8-year loan term with no prepayment penalty. The monthly 
payment arul tbe Annual llnxtilage Rate shown assume the 90-da/ deferment of principal and interest described abm v atul no olber deferment ofprincipal or intensi. StuiLnts may defer principal payments up to / years, or until graduation. Deferment will change yvur monthly payments. Tbe Apple 
Computer Loan is subject to credit approixil. Apple Computer Loan and 90 Day Deferred Payment Plan offers available only io qualifying students, faculty and staff. Offers available onlyfrom Apple or an authorized Apple Campus Reseller or representative 994Apple Computer, Inc All rights 
reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Perfomta and The power to be your best" are regisleretl trademaris of Apple Computer, Inc AppleDesign atul Pouer Macintosh are tradenuirks oftipple Computer, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995
tudents return to The Yard
Jason Siegendorf /Tartan Photographer
Matt KcKeon, Nootan Bharani, Patience Moreno, Christine Brill, AzmeerSalleh and 
luan Davila-Santiago all enjoy the new Scotland Yard.
yARD, from page 1 want to price everyone out of the marServices Mark Hamlin recommended ket.
bat Scotland Yard not open because it In the past, labor costs were in the 
s. uid lose money, detract from the dinvicinity of 50 percent of the budget, in 
ngroom space, take business away from order for income to flow back into the 
She Corner Oven, and could not be the campus, Hamlin said. The new Yard 
lame as the old Scotland Yard. Also, a will have a smaller wait staff than benanager could not be found conveliently.
One initial plan to reduce costs injluded having no wait staff in the Yard 
ind running it as an upscale coffeelouse with no kitchen or grill. How>ver, that plan was eventually rejected.
Hamlin said that Business Affairs and 
Student Affairs have both donated 
noney toward covering Scotland Yard 
losses. He stated that, in the old Scotand Yard space during the fiscal year 
1993-94, the Yard lost $28,000. Two 
nain factors were food cost and labor 
:ost. Food cost was very high, from a 
msiness point of view, Hamlin said, 
ideally, food costs should be 25-35 per:ent of the price. The old Yards was 53 
jercent, since Student Affairs, who ran 
Jcotland Yard before, demanded that 
;he fees for food be low. The new Yards 
bod costs will be around 45 percent, 
since, according to Hamlin, we dont
fore.
The original menu included only cof
fee, beverages, and desserts. According 
to Mike Breen, a Computer Science 
sophomore, Declan talked them into 
having real food. In addition to options 
from the Comer Oven, the menu fea
tures several meatless selections, such 
as baba gonough, hummus, andtaboulee 
salad, as well as a sampler plate of all 
three.
Blender drinks are included, as well 
as coffee, bottled juice and soda. Garlic 
bread and French bread pizza are in
cluded on the grill menu, and the dessert 
menu features Chocolate Death Cake 
and a Mystery Dessert, which will change 
nightly. The bartender on opening night, 
Rick Zdan, an H&SS freshman, said 
that the blender drinks were the most 
popular beverage that night.
Root beer floats could not be included 
on the menu since the electrical system
cannot handle the additional load of a 
freezer for ice cream.
One of the biggest issues earlier in the 
year was whether Scotland Yard would 
be smoking or nonsmoking. Students 
clearly preferred that at least part of the 
Yard be smoking. However, in order to 
include a smoking section, a new venti
lation system would have been neces
sary. The cost would have been about 
$40,000. Due to the cost, Scotland Yard 
is completely nonsmoking.
There was an informal student com
mittee led by Breen. If people had input 
for Scotland Yard, they could email it to 
him, and he would add them to his dlist. 
Breen said that [Declan and I] did most 
of the work.
Breen and McCullagh set up a deco
rating party last Thursday. People do
nated memorabilia and came to the Yard 
to assist in decorating. The Scotland 
Yard neon sign, which had been stored 
by Bill Elliot, Vice President of Enroll
ment, since Skibo was torn down, sits in 
a window facing Morewood ETower. 
Four of the tables from the old Yard line 
one wall of the room.
Plans for the new University center 
are hanging on the wall, as well as sev
eral old photographs and paintings. So 
far, the Yard, has received donations 
from Scotch n Soda, the Presidents of
fice, Alumni Relations, the University 
Architects and University Archives.
There is a stereo with a CD player on 
loan from the Student Dormitory Coun
cil. In the past, the wait staff brought in 
CDs . Breen hopes that customers will 
also bring whatever music they want to 
hear. A trophy case will be purchased in 
the near future, as well as a bar. Both 
the pianos are staying, Breen added. 
He hopes that people will be able to sit 
down and play when they want to. One 
of the hallmarks of the old Yard was live 
entertainment. Breen said that in order 
to set something up, performers only 
need to talk to the manager. However, if 
sound equipment is necessary, perform
ers must contact AB Tech personally.
Dave Perry/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Marybelle Apartments, located on Clyde Street, was the site of a number of unusual 
robberies over winter break.
Students robbed of 
their pocket change
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
Marybelle Apartments, which houses 
CMU students, reported four cases of 
robbery when residents returned from 
winter break last weekend.
According to James LaPaglia, Chief of 
Campus Police, There were no forced 
entries in any of [the apartments]. He 
said that all the robberies were similar 
in that each victim reported that, appar
ently only coins had been taken. The 
amount stolen ranged from $5.00 to $50. 
There was an isolated case in which the 
victim stated three CDs were removed 
from her holder. Barbara Thompson, a 
junior Biology and Physiology student, 
said that she was robbed of $50 worth of 
quarters and dimes. They were on top 
of the radiator, she said. Thompson
said that the robbery was not evident. 
She realized it when a friend pointed the 
missing coins out. Thompson said that 
the only people who had access to her 
room over the break, were CMU and the 
buildings maintenance crew.
The coins were in plain sight. The 
apartments werent ransacked, said 
LaPaglia. [There was] no injury or dam
age to property that we are aware of. 
The police report said one of the victims 
stated that a member of the building 
maintenance staff was in the room over 
break. LaPaglia would not comment on 
the investigation.
He did say that campus police were 
pursuing a lead in the case, however the 
details of the lead were not disclosed. 
LaPaglia only said, Campus Police is 
actively involved in this and is following 
up on the leads.
Separate charges brought 
against student president
Correction...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Lauren Heinz at x8-2111, or write her in care of The Tartan.
cally, it takes six to eight months 
to bring a case to trial, while a 
summary decision can resolve the 
case quickly.
InMcCullaghs hearing, he was 
charged with simple assault and 
pled guilty to harassment. The 
simple assault charge was dis
missed. A summary offense [ha
rassment] is a speeding ticket, or 
spitting on the sidewalk, said 
McCullagh.
McCullagh was arrested at his 
house through Pittsburghs new 
Mandated Arrest Policy. In do
mestic violence cases, the policy
Im innocent of all these charges 
... in fact, I am the most recent in 
the long line of political victims of 
my accuser [Riley]
 Declan McCullagh 
Student Government President
VIcCULLAGH, from page 1
an Discipline (UDC) charges 
igainst McCullagh, but due to 
Jniversity policies regarding 
UDC cases, the result of the pro:eeding has not been revealed.
Riley and McCullagh have also 
Bled UDC charges against each 
)ther. The results of Rileys hear
ing have not been released, and 
VlcCullaghs has been postponed 
indefinitely.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy refused to com
ment on the hearings, but did 
peak about the UDC process. If
matter is ______________
leard exclu
sively off cam)us, that is, the 
University 
would no way 
De involved in 
t; [or] it didnt 
nvolve mem
bers of the Uni
versity commuoity, the Uni
versity would 
have the preogative of reviewing that case after the fact if allows the police to arrest someuch a case were of an extremely one if they see there are visible 
serious nature. bruises on the victim. That way,
The administration enjoys the victim does not have to decide 
adjudicating spurious charges then and there whether or not to 
ike these because it disempowers press charges, 
egitimate student political acTrexel, who is currently living 
;ivity, said McCullagh. I am a with her family in California, said, 
victim of politically motivated Its very odd and very weird for 
barges. I am being victimized by me to classify myself as abused. 
;he process. Someone no longer It feels strange to say Ive been 
nvolved with the University comabused. Its never something I 
nunity [Trexel] has nothing to 
ose by pressing charges. There 
^e no longer any disciplinary 
actions that can be taken against 
hem. McCullagh would not com
ment on what possible political 
Motivation a former student 
vould have to press abuse 
barges.
^ Ann Hazlett, a legal advocate 
r the Pittsburgh Womens Cenand Shelter said that because 
the large number of domestic 
^olence cases, most are solved at 
he preliminary level. She also 
lajd that few victims want their 
ases to go beyond this level. Typican put behind me, but its some
thing I have to learn to live with. 
Riley described this situation 
in terms of the victim vs. survi
vor. She said, I dont think of 
myself as a victim, I think of 
myself as a survivor. The word 
victim evokes images of a person 
whos helpless, defeated, whos 
defined herself as being trauma
tized by some dramatic or bru
tally violent event. A survivor is 
someone who just goes on and 
lives her life; and while the vio
lence that shes experienced does 
impact her life, it does not control
___________ it.
Im innocent of 
all these charges 
... in fact, I am the 
most recent in the 
long line of politi
cal victims of my 
accuser [Riley], 
said McCullagh. 
These politically 
motivated charges 
could not and 
would not stand up 
in a public hearing 
... the disciplinary 
process is being abused. 
McCullagh said he does not in
tend to resign as Student Gov
ernment President.
[Ed. Note: Tartan Contribut
ing Editors Andrew Sproule, 
Samuel Greenfield and Jason 
Togyer; Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Lauren Heinz; and Tartan News 
Editor Edward Hayes contributed 
to this article.]
NEWS
HAPPENS
Call the Tartan at 268-2111 If you would like to cover it.
Dt&wiKf The* Pizza./
Voted the ^1 
Pizza in Pittsburgh 
by the Post Gazette.
Our competitors 
pizza was com
pared to card
board with sauce."
Try the rest, buy 
the best!
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
682-7272
Carryout Special
One 14 Large One Topping
$5."
PAPA JOHNS VALUE MENU
10 Small14 Large16 Extra Large
Cheese Pizza4.956,959.95
One Topping5.657.9510.95
Two Topping6.358.9511.95
Three Topping7.059.9512.95
Four Topping7.7510.9513.95
Five Topping8.4511.9514.95
Garden Special7.2510.2513.25
Mushrooms, Onion, Green Pepper, & Black Olives
The Works8.4511.9514.95
Party Special j
One 14 Large with The Works 
& One 14" Large Two Toppings
Pepperoni, Ham, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Green Peppers, & Black Olives
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Party Special
TOPPINGS
Ham
Pepperoni 
Sausage 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Anchovies 
Extra Cheese 
Mushrooms 
Onions 
Black Olives 
Green Olives 
Green Peppers 
Jalapeno Peppers
EXTRAS
Breadsticks........................................... 1.79
Delicious oven-baked sticks with plenty 
of Papa John's Special Galic Sauce &
Nacho Cheese Sauce
Extras.............................................................28
Extra Pepperonclni, Special Galic 
Sauce, Nacho Green Sauce
Cheesesticks....................................... 3.20
A Chicago-cut taste treat smothered in 
cheese & Special Garlic Sauce
Drinks..............................................................61
12 oz. can of Coca-Cola classic.
Sprite^ or diet Cokd
Prices do not include sales tax
U
*13:95
One 
14" Large 
One Topping
OR
Two 
14" Large 
One Topping
$6.98
SZrm98
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Perfect Brunch or 
Late Night Munch
One 10" Pizza One Topping & 
Two Cans of Coca-Cola classic
99*5.+tax
(Daily 11am-4pm. 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon ^^^lid^nly^^parlicipating^tores^^^^j

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University23 January 1995
gekKfrKekh fMc..oklo 
#fgs..clM7h c,K.Kr
In December, Student Body 
President Declan McCullagh 
pled guilty to harassment, the 
, result of a domestic violence case 
filed by grad student Donna 
Riley, his former girlfriend. Since 
then, Crystal Trexel has come 
forward and made similar 
charges of abuse against 
McCullagh. As members of the 
community he represents, we feel 
that his effectiveness as Presi
dent has been severely limited, 
arid that his credibility is in ques
tion. We call for McCullaghs res
ignation.
McCullagh has been convicted 
of a very serious charge  ha
rassment  but he dismisses it 
as a summary offense. This is 
true in the eyes of the law, but we 
can not accept it from our high
est elected representative. He is 
a campus figure and the most 
visible student leader on cam
pus. He is responsible for provid
ing an example for, and acting as 
representative and advocate of, 
our student body. In his actions 
he has failed that task. 
McCullagh is not just any stu
dent; because of the press cre
ated around the bboard censor
ship debate, he has been quoted 
in Time, on ABC radio, in the 
Chronicle of Higher Education, 
and in other venues, giving him 
national attention. With this con
viction, can he still serve as 
spokesperson for the student 
body? The answer is no.
The more serious allegations 
make the soapboxes, which have 
been McCullaghs political plat
forms as Student Government 
President, appear hypocritical in
retrospect. He claims to be a sup
porter of womens rightshes a 
member of the Womens Center 
 yet has allegedly pushed one 
woman he was dating down a 
flight of stairs. This begs the 
question: When he compiles sex 
and crime statistics, will he count 
himself among them?
Perhaps the worst aspect of 
these charges is that McCullagh 
has yet to publicly acknowledge 
them; he has gone about busi
ness as usual, as if nothing hap
pened. His policies of openness 
and trust have been compro
mised, for it seems as if 
McCullagh has something to 
hide.
Regardless of the public per
ception, it narrows down to a 
question we as students need to 
ask ourselves: Do we want to be 
represented by a person who has 
taken these grave events so 
lightly? Domestic violence is an 
important issue  one that is 
very rarely reported in many of 
its occurrences. Riley was the 
first to press charges against 
McCullagh (and we applaud that, 
since few women take that step); 
since then, it has become clear 
that this may not have been an 
isolated incident.
McCullagh should resign. If he 
doesnt, we feel that Student Sen
ate should act immediately and 
move to impeach him. It is their 
responsibility as leaders, as well 
as ours as students under their 
leadership, to assure that our 
representatives are above suspi
cion. McCullaghs actions are un
acceptable, and we can not let 
this incident go unnoticed.
AkKoihKr ZcK.sio re 
Mekei #*P Zishricroh
Monday, January 16, was the 
official day to recognize the birth
day of Dr. Martin Luther King 
Jr. After four weeks of vacation, 
the administration felt that it 
was important to get back to 
school immediately regardless of 
the fact that many other schools, 
all banks, and every federal and 
state office had honored the holi
day.
CMU completely ignored Kings 
acheivements as the greatest 
civil rights leader the United 
States has ever seen, and one of 
the greatest of the twentieth cen
tury. This policy conflicts the 
Universitys professed goal of fos
tering a community diversity.
By not celebrating this holi
day, CMU sends a definite mes
sage to the student body about 
its priorities. Is this school really 
committed to diversity? It does 
not seem so.
Priorities appear to be busi
ness and academics rather than 
diversity, intellectual pursuit, 
and respect. Because of this, the 
university shouldnt be surprised 
that more students of color dont 
attend this school. Why would 
they feel comfortable in a place 
that doesnt give the slightest 
respect to a man who fought so 
much for them?
It is true that CMU did an
nounce their official celebration 
for Kings birthday  on Satur
day, January 14, before many 
students were back. One of the 
main points of the celebration
L\y.e it news-.. 
UM... THAT kUWMEU UKJS
fops I c,L-es!
MvMM'VI/M. WJD "Haoretz" 
s A Bf\R_ fZOull.
0'7ll.'7Wu,i c-*(u,
Drug legalization a necessity
Andrew Sproule
The past month saw Pittsburgh play
ing the perfect host to a contradiction 
that our whole country suffers from: our 
now famous, and ridiculous, war on 
drugs. A batch of pure heroin found its 
way into the
volved, we see no officials going after the 
dealers of this drug that killed. State 
liquor stores are probably confident that 
they wont be raided and hauled off to 
jail. Neither are the corporations that 
manufactured the alcohol. Yet, they carry 
just as much blame as the dealers and 
drug manufacturers of heroin.
Weve got trouble with a capital T, 
th^t rhymes with C and that stands for 
Contradiction. Illegal drugs  mari
juana, opiates and hallucinogens  are 
considered bad because they are illegal.
If the U.S. made these drugs legal ...we 
could make money  instead of losing it by 
pouring it into a failing war.
hands and veins 
of anxious us
ers. They died.
This sent police 
into a frenzy try
ing to track 
down the dealers before any
body else died from overdosing. What 
happened to the war? This is the equiva
lent to our fighting another country and 
then arresting our arms manufacturers 
for making weapons too lethal. What 
better way to win a war than to have the 
enemy kill themselves?
Here at CMU, a student died from 
drinking too much. While there is much 
debate on how wrong this was and vari
ous rumors as to the punishment that 
will be handed down to the parties inThats a tough circle of logic to break 
through. If we believe everything weve 
been told is bad for us is bad for us, not 
only are our weekends going to be a lot 
duller than usual, but were going to 
have start treating everything that is 
bad for us in the same way.
Tobacco and alcohol are the leading 
causes of death in this country, yet they 
remain legal. Actually, since the govern
ment subsidizes tobacco farmers, it is 
more than legal, its officially endorsed.
The United States is proud to be thf 
sponsor of lung and throat cancer. 
Regardless of those facts, of one mil 
lion prisoners in this country, approxi 
mately 30 percent of them are in jail fo 
drug offenses  many for.simple po; 
session. We pursue these offenders wit] 
a vengeance, even though the drugs the] 
choose to use dont do nearly the damag 
that our legal drugs do.
A few European countries, such a 
Denmark and Sweden, have experi 
mented with making heroin and othe 
drugs available to 
diets. Crime rates havi 
plummeted, people 
arent dying from over
dosing, and the violenci 
associated with illegal 
drug dealing has almo:
-  completely disappeared
If the U.S. made these 
drugs legal, we would see the same re 
suits, we could make money  insteac 
of losing it by pouring it into -a failing 
warby taxing these drugs in the same 
way we tax alcohol and tobacco. And, wf 
wouldnt have to live with the mora 
contradiction we now do.
Senior Creative Writing major Andrew 
Sproule is actually concerned about thi, 
issue  7 lot just looking for a way to ge
was to have students volunteer 
for community organizations to 
honor King. A nice idea, but Stu
dent Affairs is constantly trying 
to get students to volunteer at 
these very same places and there
fore, there is nothing about the 
idea that makes it special to this 
specific holiday. People should 
volunteer as a matter of course, 
not just on one day, for one holi
day. And if they do, it should be 
just as that  a volunteer.
We realize that many may 
think we are simply whining be
cause we would like another day 
off. However, this is not the point 
We are trying to make. If we are 
attending classes, the day should 
at least be marked with speeches, 
movie and video showings, and 
perhaps an entire program of 
events dedicated to remember
ing Dr. King and educating 
people about his impact on soci
ety.
There were some isolated of
fices and individuals on this cam
pus that made an effort to mark 
the day, and they should be com
mended. However, because of the 
responsibilities the University 
has and because of the claims it 
has made, the Administration 
needs to make commemorating 
this holiday a priority. If they 
dont, the University is continu
ally going to find it difficult to 
enroll any students who are truly 
interested in experiencing a di
verse, intellectually stimulating 
environment.
*cT.ohhkohh Mch Krh rKJo cka C.cfo
IhfulljU
------------ a cold and vicious murder and should be prosecuted accord
ingly.
Many argue that Salvis actions were justified because 
millions of babies have been killed since the Roe vs. Wade 
ruling in the 1970s, and change does not seem imminent, sc 
the only way to cut down on abortions is to eliminate those 
Ronak Singhal who conduct them. While scare tactics such as this maj 
HSHHHHHHHHHIHHHHHiHHHHHIHHHBii initially work, in the long run they serve no purpose because 
When laws are created, its expected that the citizens will the issue becomes the killing of workers, not babies. Foi 
either obey the laws or be punished for violating them. If the change to occur, the most effective route would be through 
law needs to be overturned, the ballot box exists as the main the government, not through the use of a gun. 
impetus for change. Sometimes, however, that method of Another problem with lawlessness is the manner in whicl
instigating change does not yield the desired results quickly many are allowed to get away with breaking the law. One 
enough. Then the blatant disregard of the law can often create example of this occurs here on campus where the use 
the spark needed to incite a change. Yet this blatant disregard illegal drugs and underage drinking is disregarded by those 
is becoming all too commonplace in our society and sets a in charge. In comparison, students have been turned in foi 
dangerous precedent. painting on public property, while doing no permanent
Possibly the most famous use of lawlessness in America to damage. The fear of being caught for certain activities ha; 
achieve a change in society was during the 1960s by the late been removed from this campus where students are allowed 
Martin Luther King, Jr. His concept of civil disobedience almost totally free reign over their domain. While this maj
helped India win its indepen
dence and helped change the 
segregation in America. By dis
regarding the laws that existed, 
King was able to change the 
laws of our society by forcing 
people to realize the idiocy of 
the current state of affairs. In 
this case, lawlessness was used 
to change the system peace
fully.
The fear of being caught for certain 
activities has been removed from 
this campus where students are 
allowed almost totally free reign 
over their domain.
be a popular policy, it is 
not a good policy 
cause of possible conse
quences. This was 
shown when an under
age CMU student died 
from blood poisoning 
after consuming too 
much alcohol. To search 
students would be 
wrong, but it would be
Today, the great debate among people is abortion. Some feel no more wrong than totally ignoring the laws of our country, 
that the killing of a child is all right because a woman should however right or wrong they may be. 
have the choice to decide what happens within her own body. This type of lawlessness suggests to citizens that they 
On the other hand, many feel that abortion is wrong because have the right to impose their own code of law without regarc 
it is nothing short of the murder of an innocent human, to what our nations laws state. This, of course, would create 
Whatever a persons view on the issue is, as American law an extremely dangerous setting in which to live, as peoplf 
currently stands, abortion is legal in most cases. There are could do whatever they wanted without regard for how 
many groups working to change this state of affairs, and, affects others.
hopefully, the newly elected Congress will help make this act Lawlessness has a time and place. When used correctly,
illegal. can be used as the impetus for change. But when usei
However, for people to kill those who work in abortion incorrectly, it can have deadly consequences. Also, the tota 
facilities is a very ill-conceived way to bring about change. Of disregard for punishing those who do break the law is si 
course, I am referring to John Salvi, who killed two people in dangerous as allowing people to roam freely in an anarchi[ 
a Massachusetts abortion clinic. Such an act hinders the cause society. The laws of our country are not perfect, but, in mo? 
of those opposed to abortion by galvanizing the other side and cases, the best way to bring about change is through lawfr 
giving them more ammunition in their fight to maintain the means.
status quo. This is also not to underplay that Salvi committed Ronak Singhal is a sophomore in CIT.
T

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995
g#A7h iohrieeJh kol.ofr rMo kooah eZ TeJok
Mahua Dutta
For most of the United States, 
Monday was a holiday to celebrate 
Martin Luther King Day. For 
those of us privileged to attend 
CMU, it was the first day of 
classes. For me, it was also the 
first day of my period, that 
monthly pal that I love so much. 
This round  yes, a boxing term 
is appropriate  provided a mi
nor crisis. I managed to get 
through the day fairly well, but 
around 9 pm in the evening, I 
almost fell apart. Headaches? 
Cramps? No, this was far more 
serious.
As I crouched to reach the sa
cred box that I store under the 
sink, I realized that I didnt have 
anymore tampons. Okay, no prob
lem _ a quick trip to the Co-Op for 
over-priced tampons would serve 
as a remedy. The Co-Op was
closed. Still, no problem  En
tropy would surely be open. I was 
wrong. Thus, my hour-long quest 
began.
I called female friends, none of 
whom were home. I even rang up 
a male friend who tried to help 
but couldnt. On the verge of tears, 
I ended up at UniMart, where I 
got my tampons and frightened 
the clerks who will no doubt fondly 
remember me as the psycho-tampon-chick.
This trauma, which all women 
have unjustly suffered at least 
once in their lives, could and 
should have been avoided. How, 
you ask? The answer lies not in 
solving scheduling problems at 
the Co-Op and Entropy. Its sim
pler than that: Fill the tampon 
machines in the womens public 
restrooms on campus.
I have never come across a func
tioning tampon machine at CMU. 
For example, two prime spots that 
have faulty dispensers are the 
gym and Doherty Hall. Im sure 
that a good number of women 
have been at either building, or 
for that matter any campus build
ing, and have been cruelly disap
pointed by the empty machines.
This problem is not unique to 
CMU. Other universities have 
this problem. I know from experi
ence that Princeton University 
neglects to properly maintain its 
tampon machines. Of course, its 
not just schools. Its every place. 
America is filled with public 
restrooms that fail to provide ad
equate dispensers. Its a national 
issue.
I dont understand why we have 
to tolerate this insanity. Dispens
ers cant be all that difficult to
and ready to be used. Why cant 
tampons machines be main
tained? Are they really that hard 
to refill or check? Somehow, I 
dont think so.
The days of not addressing 
womens needs because the issue 
might be embarrassing have 
been over for a long time. Women 
menstruate. Its common knowl
edge, as any sixth grader can tell 
you. There is no excuse for this 
neglect.
Now, there is the issue of re
sponsibility. I should be responmaintain. Hell, its just a vending 
machine. Candy, soda, and 
condom machines are usually full
Francine Gemperle/ Acting Co-Art Editor
sible for myself. I should have 
been prepared. I should have fol
lowed the American Express Card
Rule: Never leave home without 
it. (This rule has an amendment 
which is: Always have at least 
half a box in the bathroom.) I try 
to live by this rule. Most of the 
time Im successful. However, 
sometimes, as Monday nights es# 
capade demonstrated, I find my
self in a bit of a predicament, 
which is why tampon dispensers 
exist.
And, when in such a predica
ment, I believe that I, along with 
every other woman in America, 
have the right to be able to pur
chase a tampon from a dispenser 
in a public restroom. Maybe I 
cant change every restroom in 
this nation, but I can try to change 
the ones on this campus. CMU 
women, think globally and act 
locally. Fill out a request for 
Maintenance to fill the dispens
ers. Complain to Housing and 
Residence Life. Talk to your RA. 
Demand your right to tampon 
access!
Mahua Dutta is a senior Pro
fessional Writing major who feels 
that a tampon delivery service is 
an excellent idea.
*c,o.Kkl eZ Ce.KrKfc. CcirKoh eoihKJC.KZKoh KoTh
James Stepanek
Its funny how we often get stuck 
with baggage which is both of no 
use and often a hindrance. A prime 
example of this is the political 
spectrum. This is the tendency of 
everyone to describe their politi
cal views in terms of a one dimen
sional location defined by left 
and right. By this standard, Im 
on the right, and most of this school 
would seem to be on the left. This 
system is totally inadequate. Ones 
political views are far more com
plicated than such a scale.
The whole left-right spectrum of 
political views came about during 
the French Revolution. After Louis 
had been disposed of (he lost his 
head), the ruling body of France 
met in a large hall. The radicals
were seated on the left of the 
room, while those who were more 
conservative were on the right. 
Were still stuck with an arbi
trary seating arrangement as the 
nomenclature of our politics. Does 
this seem stupid to you as well?
Of course, the way in which the 
left and right designations 
have been applied have been even 
more haphazard. We end up with 
totalitarian regimes perched at 
opposite ends of the spectrum. 
We have the communists on the 
left and the fascists on the 
right. These are both repres
sive governments which end up 
with similar means of control. 
You endup with no rights. Whats 
so different?
This example shows how the 
scale is defined. Its simply in 
terms of the ownership of prop
erty in the sense of private versus 
public ownership. In the commu
nist case all property is public. In 
the fascist case there is private 
property, but the government 
controls it all anyway by making"
the industries tow the line. They increases the complexity too much 
still end up mighty similar. and makes display difficult. With 
Now this simplistic system this new chart we can arrange all 
leads to gaping holes of logic. By the groups in respective positions 
this analysis we have libertarwhich, at least to some extent, 
ians next to fascists and anargive a good idea of what theyre 
chists next to communists. NeiUke. It may still be a bit shallow, 
ther of these quite work. I mean, but you end up with things placed 
libertarians are extremely abhorin a more informative fashion.
The spectrum is 200 years old and 
what is defined as left and right seems 
to shift with each passing political fad.
rent of large government and anThe new system will enable you
archists believe in none whatsoto distinguish the difference beever, yet theyre placed right next tween fascists, communists, libto the archetypes of totalitarian ertarians, and anarchists by pogovemments. We emphatically sitioning them in roughly the four 
need a better system. comers of the scale. This is not
Okay, now for my suggestion, wholly honest since libertarians 
We add an axis based on state believe in some government, but 
control vs. freedom. This is not well make do with it. Other parquite adequate in all respects, ties can be placed somewhere on 
but the further expansion beyond this map. New Deal Democrats 
a two-dimensional system both fit somewhere in the northwest
quadrant while Neo-Conserva
tive Republicans are rather to 
the east, with a small bend 
south. You can work to fit your
self onto this map. Welfare will 
lean you towards the west, while 
tax cuts will move you east. 
Regulation of business is a 
northern trek, while 
privatization of government 
functions will send you 
south. Granted, this scale 
still shoehorns people into 
positions, but its a step up.
Its only reasonable to 
scrap the old scale. The spec
trum is 200 years old and 
what is defined as left and right 
seems to shift with each passing 
political fad. Parties and views 
can be placed on the new chart 
without such anachronistic bag
gage as the right and left wings 
and without the traditional 
gross oversimplifications which 
characterize political labeling.
James Stepanek is a PhD Stu
dent in MSE.WKhfshh g#A7h Cie,.oJhn hsffohhoh rMieslM ZeisJ
The Editors Notebook
The Editors Notebook presents the indi
vidual opinion of the author only, not 
necessarily the opinions of The Tartan or 
of the Editorial Board.
I went to Health Services and they said, 
youre sick (I knew that; thats why I 
went) and all they did was give me Advil. 
Could I please have an English-speaking 
TA this semester? The career center is 
confusing. Every time I go to High
lander I pay six bucks and then all Ill 
want is a sandwich. Theres no sense of 
community; theres nothing that brings 
the five colleges together. I hate it when 
students walk out of my lecture 10 min
utes into it: The Administration is trying 
to destroy the Greek system at CMU. 
Ive heard these complaints in many 
different ways from a large variety of 
people. As a new semester begins, I would 
like to see the Forum section of the Tartan 
be more of a forum to both student and 
faculty/staff frustrations, as well as an 
opportunity to point out a few of the good 
things that happen at CMU. Yet, to do so, 
I need your help. Yes, Im asking some
thing of you, (yes, you!) and that is to write 
one column about something you feel ve
hemently about, something about the 
school that bothers you or that you really
like. Collaborate with some of your friends. 
Tell us what its like to be you at CMU. 
Whats the life of an art major? Whats it 
like to be a foreign student? Write out an 
interesting debate or discussion that you 
had. If its your opinion (in approximately 
700 words) and if its well written, it will be 
printed. As long as it does not challenge 
tasteful ethics.
My plea is not solely directed at stu
dents. It would be great to have an edito
rial each week from the faculty or staff and 
get a different point of view of life at CMU. 
With all the griping by students about food 
service, Health Service, book prices, shuttle 
service and countless other topics, how do 
the responsible parties respond? Guilty or 
not guilty? Are there factors that most do 
not take into consideration? Concerns are 
often addressed by the faculty and staff
through letters to the editor, but Im 
offering more space and a nice, big head
line.
Why should you do this? Why, when 
you have 10 trillion other things in your 
life, should you spend an hour of your life 
to write something for the paper? Ill let 
you in on a secret: if its good, if its 
something that gets to people on an emo
tional or intellectual level, youll have 
people writing you email to discuss' it 
further; youll have people coming up to 
you saying, Whoa, I really agreed with 
what you said. And, best of all, youll 
bring the campus a little bit closer and 
maybe change things for the better.
Kris Hinrichs is a sophomore in IM/ 
GCM. You can contact her through email 
if youre interested in writing for Forum.
Monday was the first day 
of classes but also Martin 
Luther King Day, a national 
holiday. Many businesses 
and schools closed to ob
serve the holiday, but CMU 
did not. What did you 
think about having 
classes on Martin Luther 
King Day?
Lisa Essig
Sophomore
Biology
We shouldve had the day off 
out of respect for people who 
celebrate the holiday, just like 
we should for religious holidays.
Brian Van Essen
Freshman
CIT
To tell you the truth, I didnt 
even know it was Martin Luther 
King Day so it didnt really 
bother me. 
Kris Dahl 
Freshman 
CIT
It didnt really matter to me, 
though it probably offended 
many people.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Eric Silinsh 
Fifth year Senior 
Architecture
I thought it was kinda silly 
considering that Monday was 
the first day of classes and at 
least we couldve pretended that 
we care.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Ed.................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor..........Kris Hinrichs
Sports Editor.... Matthew Solitro 
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Glbney
Jonmichael L.T. Moy
Div. Editor........Paul Tabachneck
Calendar Ed......Roula Abdel-Baki
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne 
Acting Art Co-Eds.Gabrien Symons 
Francine Gemperle
Photo Editor...................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr.........Derek Wahila
Personnel Mgr.......Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr.......................Eric Strauss
Systems Mgr..........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed.........Max Chittister
Asst. Div. Ed......Natalie Wochele
Asst. Prod. Mgr...............Kathy Liu
Darkroom Mgr....... Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Mgr...........David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Samuel Greenfield, Abby Schiff, An
drew Sproule, Jason Togyer
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Declan McCullagh, An
drew McDermott
Staffwriters 
Jason Andracki, Eric Applewhite, 
John Biggs, Steven Burns, Carey 
Clevenger, Mahua Dutta, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Helnleln, Vladimir 
Labelkovsky, Deena Newsom, 
David Osorio, Ronak Singhal, Jon 
Slenk, James Stepanek, Bethany 
Sutton, Bill Vandermark, 
Sharmlla Venkatasubbeen, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
John Weber, Heather Zindle, Corey 
Zinn
Art
Justin Carroll
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunsklil, Nick 
Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowltz, Christopher Nelson, 
Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
VineetAgarwal,TusharDubey,Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, An
drew Flores, Kerry Hagan, Janet 
Lee, Pat Prasangsit, Jason 
Slegendorf, Jackson Tam, Marla 
Valenti, Cheryl Vlaud
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings, 
Jen Urso
Production 
Heather Alexander, Lester 
Manzano, Carrie McDonough, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Shantanu Rana, 
Katie Swango
Copy
Lee Abernathy, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Winter Mason, 
Diane Ohm, Ed Slavishak, Roger 
Wang
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, David Branning, Seth 
A. Covitz, Beth Garlano, Manoo 
Halati, Adam Klivans, Ron Kurti, 
Rolf Neill, Suzanne Paddock, Nicole 
Poisson, Emily Rosenthal, Caleb 
Sidel, Lance Thomas, Daniella 
Topol, Daniel Yanger
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper published 
by students during the fall and spring semesters, at 
no cost to members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Sub
scriptions are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section are the official opinion of Tho Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are 
the opinions of individual creators. Tho Tartan re
serves the right to reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Lottora to tho Editor arc opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, mem
bers of the University community. A letter Intended for 
publication must be signed and Include tho writer's 
address and phone number for verification. Names 
may be withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 500 words. Tho Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright  1995 by TJio Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial 
board reserves tho right to withhold from publication 
any copy It deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mel
lon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
- &1

---------------------------------------------------

r
HOW TO KEEP PEOPLES 
HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY.
ft Carry only enough cash to last the day.
Anyone who tries to borrow your last five spot 
isn't a friend, anyway.
ft Label your spare-change jar beetle farm.
Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled 
spare change."
ft Mark up every space on checks.
Don't leave room for someone to fill in their 
name and extra zeros.
ft Keep your wallet in your front pocket.
It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing 
really tight pants.
ft Put your picture on your credit card.
A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else
to use, unless they look just like you.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 89, Issue 13Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190623 January 1995Womens basketball struggles in league play
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens basket
ball team has seen a lot of action over the 
past month and a half. They have spent 
most of their time on the road and have 
turned in a 35 record during that time 
ing them a 6-7 record, 1-4 in the 
UAA.
Most recently, they traveled to 
Brandeis and first place New York Uni
versity.
At NYU this past Sunday, the Tartans 
fell 62-33. Sophomore Kristen Kupfer 
led CMU in scoring with 10 points and 
five rebounds in the losing effort. Senior 
Christina Isaly pulled down 10 rebounds 
for the Tartans and tallied nine points. 
Freshman Katie OLeary helped out the 
Tartans with eight points and seven 
rebounds.
On Friday, the team played at 
Brandeis. The game went into overtime, 
but the Tartans lost 62-55.
The Tartans returned home on Janu
ary 15 to play UAA rival Johns Hopkins. 
John Hopkins came out ahead 7749 by 
shooting over 50 percent from the field
and beyond the three point arc. OLeary 
scored 14 
points and 
added nine re
bounds while 
Kristen 
Kupfer tallied 
17 points and 
Penny 
Summerville 
posted 10 
boards.
A few days 
earlier, the 
team found 
themselves in 
Grove City.
The Tartans 
held their op
ponents to un
der 20 percent 
shooting from 
the floor in a 
low scoring 
game. Katie 
OLeary 
scored 12
Tartan File PhotoThe Tartans have lost three straight 
without Gretz in the lineup
points and grabbed 10 rebounds while tans traveled to Thiel where they sufKupfer added 10 points and 12 rebounds fered a let down in a 57-45 loss. Rebecca
in the Tartans 39-27 win.
The win, however, 
came at a high price. 
Senior co-captain Jenny 
Gretz aggravated a 
stress fracture in her leg 
and is out until late Feb
ruary.
Losing Jenny hurts 
us, remarked head 
coach Gerri Seidl. We 
hope to get her back at 
least for the last two 
games of the season.
At the time of the in
jury Gretz was the team 
leader in scoring and 
assists.
The Tartans are cur
rently working on filling 
the gap left by the loss of 
Gretz as 11 players are 
averaging over 10 min
utes of playing time per 
game.
Two days before the 
Grove City win, the TarMcCadney and Katie OLeary scored 14 
points and 10 points respectively in the 
losing effort.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans 
headed to the University of Rochester. 
Summerville led the Tartans in scoring 
with 17 points while OLeary, Kupfer, 
and Gretz all scored more than 10 points. 
R McCadney added 16 rebounds as the 
Tartans defeated Rochester 61-53 for 
their first UAA win.
I was very happy with our perfor
mance, said Seidl. We played well at 
all ends of the floor.
To close out 1994, the Tartans trav
eled to Ohio to take part in the Ohio 
Northern University Tournament. 
Carnegie Mellon played the hosts in the 
first round.
Ohio Northern jumped ahead of the 
Tartans early and never allowed them 
to get any rhythm in an 87-54 loss. 
OLeary led the Tartans with 17 points 
and 11 rebounds while Gretz added 12 
points and five rebounds.
The Tartans then faced Albion in the 
consolation round and pulled out a 62- 
57 decision. Jenny Gretz scored 13 points 
and added 11 rebounds in the winning
effort, and Tracy Coalter added 12 points 
on four 3-pointers.
Along with the win over Albion, the 
team got a major uplift during the tour
nament by the return of sophomore co
captain Summerville who had been side
lined the entire year with a stress frac
ture in her lower left leg.
Were glad to have Penny back, said 
Seidl. She is already contributing a 
great amount.
At the beginning of December the team 
hosted William Smith and dropped a 
75-63 decision. The Tartans got off to a 
slow start in the first half. They made a 
run at it in the second half but it wasnt 
enough to overcome the 15-point halftime deficit.
The tandem of Gretz and Kupfer led 
the Tartans in scoring with 23 points 
and 19 points respectively while 
McCadney chipped in with 13 points 
and five rebounds.
The Tartans are looking ahead to a 
challenging schedule over the next two 
weeks as they played UAA foes. They 
will face tough matches against the 
University of Chicago on Friday and 
Washington University on Sunday.
defyo hrcirh hoJohroi hriekl clcKkhr 3okk prcro cka 3Krr
By ERIC APPLEWHITE 
& COREY ZINN
Tartan Staffwriters
The Carnegie Mellon Hockey Club blasted off to 
a quick start this semester with two big wins over 
Penn State West and cross-town rival Pitt.
Saturdays matchup against Pitt was of utmost 
importance, as CMU was in first place in the 
division with Pitt only a half-game behind. Both 
teams knew this and came out of the block playing 
very aggressively.
CMU started early when sophomore forward 
Jim Buck scored on a power play one minute into 
the game, assisted by sophomore defenseman Chris 
Adukaitis and senior captain John Cardillo. Pitt 
scored to tie the game after eight minutes of backand-forth action.
CMU scored a big goal with under a minute left 
in the first as senior forward Dan Kodesh sent a 
short pass right in front to freshman forward Scott 
Fitzgerald, who chipped it over the goaltender on 
his backhand. Pitt re-tied the game with only a 
minute and a half expired in the second.
With 13:06 left in the period, Kodesh received a 
crisp pass from sophomore forward Ray Ardire and 
sent a solid backhander in past Pitts goalie.
In keeping with the back-and-forth pace of this 
game, Pitt again tied
shots were taken in a flurry of action, and he finally 
managed to beat Pitts goaltender, assisted by 
Cardillo and junior center Roger Maddalena.
This goal sent CMUs largest crowd of the season 
into a frenzy as the team cel
ebrated. Pitt was not fazed by 
this, however, and pulled to 
within one less than twenty sec
onds later.
The final 10 minutes of the 
game were characterized by 
staunch team defense as CMU 
stymied a focused comeback at
tempt by Pitt, despite being 
shorthanded. Once again,
Kliegman made his best saves 
in an already strong game in 
the final 10 minutes. Time and 
again, CMUs defense, anchored 
by Kliegman, crushed Pitts 
chances to tie the game.
Kliegman continues to play 
his best hockey of the season, 
making key saves on a regular 
basis. Fitzgerald contributed 
two key goals, excellent penalty 
killing, and strong two-way play
fense throughout the game, briefly replied, We got 
scared towards the end; they were coming out 
strong, but we held them by playing strong de
fense. The fans also played a key role in the game
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Sophomore Jim Buck breaks away and shots over Pitts goalie. The goal put the Tartans up 1-0 early 
in a game that had lots of action back and forth.
in undoubtedly the best game of his college hockey
the game as a forward 
took a pass from a 
defenseman, broke into 
the zone, and froze 
sophomore goaltender 
Jon Kliegman on a nice 
move and scored. That 
sent both teams to the 
locker rooms knotted at 
three in a very close 
game.
At the start of the 
third, CMU came out 
extremely strong. They
received a huge boost from Ardire when he blazed 
into the zone while shorthanded and rifled the 
puck past Pitts goalie.
Six minutes later, Fitzgerald scored the eventual 
game-winner with perseverance as a couple of
The fans ... played a key role in the game with 
their enthusiasm and general noise level... hav
ing such fan support made a huge difference in 
keeping team morale high throughout this drain
ing struggle.
career. Based on his strong performance, CMU 
realized they had one more weapon in their already 
capable arsenal.
When asked about the game, freshman 
defenseman Paul Voulgaris, who played solid dewith their enthusiasm and general noise level.
Fitzgerald and Kodesh commented
----------------- that having such fan support made
a huge difference in keeping team 
morale high throughout this drain
ing struggle.
CMU won its first exhibition 
game of the semester in a close 
match against Penn State West on 
Friday, 32. The game did not get 
off to a good start.
The beginning was delayed due 
to a broken Zamboni, causing the 
' ice to be only half-cut for the start of 
the game.
Because an EMT failed to show 
up for the first period, CMU was forced to kill a five 
minute major penalty to begin the game. Only 2:16 
into that penalty, CMU lost senior defenseman 
P. J. Mann to a game misconduct.
Despite starting in this deep hole, CMU killed off
both penalties - while skating three on five  with 
quality skating and excellent goaltending.
Seconds after the penalties ended, CMU received 
a huge boost when Maddalena took a pass from 
freshman defenseman 
Bryan Campo and 
scored to put the Tar
tans up 1-0.
Things looked even 
better in the second 
period when
Maddalena converted 
a nice breakaway op
portunity, once again 
taking the pass from 
Campo, making it 2-0 
Tartans. About two 
minutes later, PSW 
stormed back to finally 
beat Kliegman.
With 4:01 remain
ing in the period, it 
looked as if PSW 
would tie the game 
when a PSW forward 
shot the puck past a 
fallen Kliegman, but 
senior defenseman Blair Echols was there to chop 
the puck away with his stick, saving a goal. At the 
beginning of the third, PSW scored again to tie the 
See HOCKEY, page 13
#ok7h ,chyor,c.. aieCh rTe re A11 eCCekokrh
By LANCE THOMAS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
It was a rough weekend of UAA 
competition for the mens basketball 
team. The suffered losses at the hands
T Tartan File Photo
artans let their lead over Brandeis slip away in the 
second half.
of both New York University and 
Brandeis University.
At NYU this past Sunday, the Tar
tans lost 86-62. Junior Kevin Byrne 
led the Tartans with 17 points and 
seven rebounds. Junior Jon Blanciak 
crashed the defensive 
boards for six rebounds 
and tallied seven points 
on the offensive end. Se
nior Steven Athanas was 
second on the team in scor
ing with nine points. The 
defeat left them with a 
record of 8-7 overall and 
2-4 in the UAA.
CMU suffered a tough 
loss to Brandeis Univer
sity on Friday, 86-83. 
They relinquished an 
eight-point lead with just 
over two minutes left, but 
the Tartans could not 
mount a comeback of their 
own. Brandeis forward 
Snyder accounted for 14 
points in the final four 
minutes of a game that 
had been controlled by 
CMU up until then.
It was a disappointment. We season with extensive experience, 
should have won, Coach Tony Byrne has been named UAA player of 
Wingen said in regard to the comethe week twice this year. Rich Bodnar 
back. We played very well until the added 14 points and senior captain 
last two minutes, but we just didnt Steve Athenas, posted 11 points, just 
finish the job. under his season average, and dished
Defensive breakdowns and cruout six assists, 
cial turnovers plagued the Tartans We had them, Blanciak added. We 
in the last minutes. These mental blew it at the end. We committed too 
mistakes allowed Brandeis to kindle many dumb fouls and had trouble movthe comeback flame and erase the ing the ball at the end of the game. It 
Tartan edge that had existed for the was a rough one. Blanciak scored fourfirst 38 minutes of the game. CMU teen points and brought down seven 
turned the ball over three times in a rebounds.
minute and a half and played a sort CMU needed a win on Sunday at 
of prevent defense intended to safeNYU to even up the road trip. NYU 
guard their lead. This had the same was 122 going into the weekend and 
sort of result that it often provides in was ranked ninth in the country for 
the NFL: miraculous comebacks. Division III basketball. This is absoWhen youre trying to finish somelutely a big game. At the outset of the 
one off, you have to hammer down, road trip we were determined to split 
Wingen said. We were a little tenat worst, Wingen commented, pointtative on defense [and with thatpreing out the importance of the NYU 
vent setup] we let down a little on game. Well have to handle the press 
defense. Pretty soon, Brandeis was [because like Brandeis] they area presscoring on us quickly. sure team. [In addition,] rebounding
Kevin Byrne put in another strong will be our number one priority. 
game for the Tartans scoring 27 This week the Tartans will host the 
points and grabbing nine rebounds. University of Chicago on Friday and 
The only player to come into this Washington University on Sunday.
Scoreboard
Mens Basketball  UAA
WLPct.Overall
Washington401.00011-0
New York610.85713-1
Rochester420.66710-3
Brandeis430.5717-6
Chicago220.5007-7
Case Western230.4005-7
Carnegie Mellon240.3338-7
Emory130.2504-9
Johns Hopkins070.0001-12
NYU 86, CMU 62; Brandeis 83, CMU 86; CMU 83, 
Johns Hopkins 63
ThisWeek: Friday _ Chicago at CMU, 8 pm; Sunday - 
Washington at CMU, 1 pm
Womens Basketball UAA
wLPct.Overall
Emory401.00011-0
New York610.85713-1
Washington310.75010-3
Johns Hopkins430.5716-6
Chicago220.5008-4
Case Western230.4007-7
Brandeis250.2865-9
Carnegie Mellon150.1675-9
Rochester150.1671-12
NYU 62, CMU 33; Brandeis 62, CMU 55 (ot); Johns
Hopkins 77, CMU 49
This Week: Friday  Chicago at CMU, 6 pm; Sunday - 
Washington at CMU, 3 pm
Hockey Club  WPCHA, West Division
WLIGEQAPts.
Carnegie Mellon41129199
Allegheny31028196
Pitt32037196
Slippery Rock22128255
CCAC-South23029264
Edinboro0509520
CMU 5, Pitt 4; CMU 3, Penn State West 2
This Week: Friday  Allegheny at CMU, 8 pm; Sunday
 Edinboro at CMU, 1 pm____________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Location
and
evelopment 
Program
School-year Internships 
Off-Campus Part-Time Employment 
Temporary Openings
Get
the
EHperience
you
need!
Mellon
College
of
Science
Deans 
List 
Fall 1994
The faculty and 
staff of the Mellon 
College of Science 
congratulate our 
students for their 
outstanding 
academic 
performances 
during the fall 
semester.
Mathematics
Ambrose, David*
Beatty, Ann*
Burtoft, James*
Canavan, Scan* 
Capsambclis, Mark 
Casciato Jr., Nicholas 
Chccker, Stephen 
Cushman, Matthew* 
Czerska, Monika*
CJaal, Michael 
Galehousc, Ben*
Hsu, Katy*
Kallbcrg, Jarrod*
Knapp, Bethany* 
Leonard, Michael*
Liang, Ying*
Lillis. Scott 
Mhaskar, Sachin*
Myers, Daniel*
Porter, Edward*
Ribar, David*
Sadusky, Scon*
Tobak, Jeffrey
Biological Sciences
Abinanti, Nicole 
Allen, Shanncn 
Anton, Lee 
Baltazar, Romulo 
Bhakta, Roshni 
Bhaumik, Apala* 
Bianchi, Nicholas* 
Cerrone, Richelle*
Culp, Sandra 
Demasi, Joseph 
Eck, Jeffrey*
Fox, Stephen* 
Friedrichsen, Danielle 
Gindin, Tatyana 
Jayakumar, Arun 
Kallenbom, Melissa* 
Keen, J. Dianne 
Knapp, Stefanie 
Lau, Chris 
Levy, Jodi*
Loik, Valerie 
Maneckshana, Bejon 
Manomaitis, Lukas* 
Maples, Chris 
Miljus, Kristin*
Myers, Cena 
Nagy, Joseph 
Odell, Sean 
Pizzurro, Mark* 
Rathbun, Kristen* 
Santory, Melissa 
Shereck, Evan 
Singh, Amoolya* 
Stevenson, Todd* 
Suntoke, Tara*
Swango, Katie* 
Thompson, Barbara* 
Van, Phil
Wroble, Minhnoi*
Chemistry
Bronstein, Hindy 
Daigler, Heidi* 
Dalkiewicz, Molly 
Ebcioglu, Zeynep 
Ekberg, Christopher 
Hackney, David*
Jenzcr, Gregor 
Kukura, Stephanie 
Lcychkis, Yan*
Love, Jonathan 
McIntyre, Kerry*
Mohan, Maya 
Neal, Everett*
Petruska, Melissa*
Rail, Christina*
Sablosky, Rachel 
Solitro, Matthew* 
Summers, Julie 
Urban, Jeffry*
Zciszler, Lee*
* Deans List High Honors
Physics
Anna, Shelley 
Blecksmith, Sarah* 
Foster, Michael 
Friel, Matthew* 
Humensky, T. Brian* 
Kersting, Nicholas* 
Lim, Daniel* 
McCausland, Wendy 
Miller, Kurt*
Ng, Fong Lui* 
Oganesyan, Vadim 
Presby, Andrew 
Rokop, Terence* 
Santoro, Andrea* 
Semoroz, Alain 
Soha, Aron*
Steiner, Andrew 
Tableman, Adam* 
Williams, David
Freshmen
Blanton, W. Bo 
Boothe, Paul 
Childs, Erin* 
Deutschbauer, Adam 
Dipasquo, Daniel* 
Douglas, Ty 
Edwards, Jacob 
Fischer, Michael 
Forlincs, Clifton* 
Fridd, Jennifer 
Gherman, Benjamin* 
Haentjens, Gavin* 
Jordan, Brian*
Kich, Jessica 
Kingman, Seth*
Lee, Vincent 
Lewitt, Jeremy 
Matcuk, George* 
Morales, Carl 
Moreno, Patience* 
Nair, Pradccp 
OMalley, Jennifer 
Osborne, Michael 
Peel or, Adam 
Phua, Hcc*
Proekt, Alex* 
Ramaprasad, Saroja* 
Reel, Juslin 
Rick, Jason* 
Stoddard, Victoria* 
Sun, Jing 
Wcisberg, Aaron 
Werner, Jonathan* 
Wu, Lccjay* 
Ximnoch. Todd
Register now!
Career Center 
Warner Hall 19
JLD REGISTRATION CARD 
Return to Warner Hall 19, Career Center
NAME
LastFirstMiddle Initial
LOCAL ADDRESS, 
PHONE NUMBER_ 
MAJOR__________
EXPECTED GRADUATION DATE
EMAIL ADDRESS. 
SIGNATURE_____
SOCIAL SECURITY #
DATE
UNDERGRADUATES, GRADUATE STUDENTS AND ALUMNI
Attend the 11th Annual 
Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
and Carnegie Mellon University Career Center
8ofMke.el 
9e, 6cKi
Speak with the regions leaders representing the 
following industries:
Engineering 
Environmental 
T elecommunications 
Professional Services
Architecture 
Biotechnology 
Computer Science 
Test and Measurement
Dress  Professional 
Resumes  Required
Thursday, February 9,1995 
10 am - 4 pm 
The Student Center Drill Deck

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995
junior forward Kevin Byrne of the 
men's basketball team and freshman 
Wayne Nickles of the mens swimming 
team were named UAA Atheletes-ofthe-Week.
In the Tartans 97-90 loss to Savan
nah College of Art and Design Byme 
scored a career-high 36 points and 
snagged 12 rebounds. In CMUs win 
over Johns Hopkins University, tallied 
18 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. 
HeleadstheTartanswithal7.8 points 
per game average.
Nickles picked up two first-place and 
one second-place finish in the Tartans 
tri-meet with Hiram College and Mount 
Union College. He won the 200-meter 
butterfly in 2:07.55 and the 1,000- 
meter in 10:59.96. In the 500-meter 
freestyle, a time of 5:23.70 earned him 
second place.
Senior forward Alex Amezquita and 
senior goalkeeper Dan Warren were 
named Mid-Atlantic Region Adidas 
Scholar-Athlete Soccer All-Americans. 
Amezquita, who was named to the 
second team, led the team team with 
27 points on nine goals and nine as
sists. Warren posted 7.7 shutouts and
1.18 goals-against average.
Junior Melissa Baustert of the 
womens track team qualified for the 
NCAA Division III Indoor Track Champi
onships in the 800-meter run. Her time 
of 2:17.51 at the Kent State University 
Open earned her a spot in the champi
onships this March.
SophomoregoalkeeperJillWeberand 
junior forward Nicole Poisson of the 
womens soccer team, and senior for
ward Mike Brazinski men's squad, were 
named to all-region teams by the Na
tional Soccer Coaches Association of 
America.
Weber, who was chosen to the first 
team All-Mid-East Region, led the UAA 
with a 0.45 goals-against average. She 
also posted 84 saves and 10 shutouts.
Poisson, a third-team selection, led 
the Tartans with 32 points on 13 goals 
and six assists.
Brazinski, a second-team All-Mid-At
lantic Region selection, was the Tartans 
third leading scorer with 24 points on 
seven goals and 10 assists.
Weber was also named as a firstteam All-American. She became the 
first womens soccer player to be hon
ored as an All-American since the start 
of the varsity womans soccer program 
four years ago.
The following Tartan football players 
were honorred as All-UAA selections: 
First team  Chris Dee, QB; Jason 
Grusky, FB; Kevin Keir, OT; Matt 
Neiss WR; Merle Atkinson, DT; Sean 
Keane, OG; Aaron Neal, TE; Robert 
Locke, DB; Todd Smith, PK.
Second team  Paul Volchko, OT;
Joe Ferris, DB; James Meyers, C;
Mike Mathias, HB; EJ. Tsangaris, LB; 
Mark Kasperowicz, LB; Alex 
Rutkowski, OG; Todd McManus, DT; 
Nathan Morgan, DB.
Honorable Mention  Robert Locke, 
Punt Returns; Jarrod McAdoo, LB; Frank 
Triggiani, P.
ErnestJ. ("EJ.") Borghetti was named 
interim sports information director. He 
replaces Bruce Gerson, who has moved 
to the Public Relations internal 
communiacations staff.
Compiled by 
MATTHEW SOLITRO
1995 IMMIGRANT 
VISA LOTTERY
SS,000 PERMANENT 
RESIDENT VISAS
Available in Lottery Beginning 
January 31,1995
For more information contact: 
Ventresca & Ventresca Attorneys at Law 
(412) 261-5366
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Euraii Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(offs. Craig in Oakland)
Niners talent looms over underdog Chargers
Steelers dominated the game sta
tistically on both sides of the ball.
However, the Chargers also 
playedagreatgame. Most impor
tant of all, the Chargers were 
able to shut down the Steeler
Quarterback Sneak running attack> forcins NeilV ODonnell to throw the ball by John Weber an(j throw he did. In fact, 
 ODonnell broke the AFC Cham
pionship game record with the 
most passing attempts and 
completions in any AFC Champi
onship game ever. However, the 
Chargers never gave up, and with 
the help of two bombs, they were 
able to take the lead 17-13 with 
just over five minutes left in the 
game. Eventually, it all came 
down to one play: fourth and goal 
from the three. I think everyone 
knows what happened next. Even 
though the Steelers lost, theres 
no reason to believe they didnt 
give it their best shot. This was a 
great football game, and every
thing else that was said before 
and after the game cant change 
that. The Steelers are young, and 
they will be back next year.
A few hours after the Charger 
victory, the game that many be
lieved was the real Super Bowl 
kicked off. Thanks to early turn
overs, San Francisco built an in
credible 21 to zip lead about half
way through the first quarter. 
From that point on, the game 
went back and forth, eventually 
ending in the favor of the 49ers, 
38-28.
The Cowboys may have lost the 
game, but I was impressed with 
the effort they put forth. Despite 
the fact the Barry Switzer seemed 
to be no help (in fact he cost his 
team a 15-yard personal foul in
the fourth quarter), the Cowboys 
just wouldnt give up. The 49ers, 
however, were the better team. 
Their machine-like offense 
quickly took advantage of every 
Cowboy turnover while their 
tough defense
for 60 minutes no matter what 
the scoreboard reads.
The 49ers are the complete op
posite of the Chargers. The 49ers 
are loaded with talented players 
whose biggest problem in the past
Last week the battle lines 
were drawn for Super Bowl 
XXIX. In the AFC Champion
ship game the Chargers upset 
the Steelers 17-13 and in the 
NFC Championship game the 
49ers defeated the Cowboys 38- 
28.
Last Sunday at Three Rivers 
Stadium, the Chargers came 
back from a 13-3 third quarter 
deficit to upset the Steelers. 
Some say the Chargers played 
a better game  they didnt.
GabrienSymons/ActingTartanArtCo-Editor
Some say that the Steelers were 
looking past the Chargers and 
had entered the game filled With 
too much confidence  they 
hadnt. Despite the fact that 
the Steelers had a Super Bowl 
rap video planned, they played 
one heck of a game. In fact, the
held the Cow
boys to 28 
points. For the 
49ers,the third 
time was the 
charm.
So this 
brings us to the 
Super Bowl 
this coming 
Sunday. First 
lets look at 
what the 
Chargers bring 
to the table, 
then well take 
a look at the 
49ers. The first 
thing you find 
out when you
look at the Chargers is that they 
are not the most talented team in 
the league. Sure they have 
Natrone Means and Junior Seau, 
but this teams success stems not 
from individual talent but from 
an incredible team effort put forth 
each and every week. This should 
be no surprise when you realize 
that Coach Bobby Ross and quar
terback Stan Humphries came 
from Joe Gibbs Washington 
Redskins. The Redskins, under 
Gibbs, won Super Bowls with in
credible team efforts and aboveaverage talent such as running 
back John Riggins and quarter
back Doug Williams.
Therefore you can expect the 
Chargers to play their guts out
will try get the ground game roll
ing with Means to set up the play 
action pass. Means is a punish
ing runner, but San Francisco, 
has a young, tough defensive line 
ready to shut him down. Defen
sive linemen Bryant Young and 
Darren Stubblefield, backed up 
by linebacker Plummer, may be 
able to slow up the rushing at
tack, forcing Humphries to go to 
the air. With Sanders and Hanks 
in the secondary, throwing the 
ball wont be a easy chore, so you 
better believe the Chargers are 
hoping that they can get their 
running game going.
When the 49ers have the ball, 
the Chargers are in trouble. Last 
week, the Chargers let the 
Steelers throw the ball in order to 
stop the run. This Sunday, how
ever, the Chargers will probably 
drop back into pass coverage a 
little more. Even so, the 49ers 
Franclne Gamperle/Acting Tartan Art Co-Editor offensive attack will dissect the
Chargers weak secondary and
has been to stay motivated 
through the course of a game and 
through the course of an entire 
season. This season, free agency 
has brought players like Deion 
Sanders, Rickey Jackson and 
Gary Plummer to the 49er de
fense, changing it into one of the 
best in the NFL. Meanwhile, the 
offense continues to light up the 
scoreboard with the same old 
players (Young, Rice, Taylor and 
Watters). In addition, the 49ers 
have stayed motivated through
out the entire season and are on 
the verge of winning their first 
Super Bowl in four years.
Now lets take a look at how 
these two teams match up. When 
the Chargers have the. ball they
rack up the passing yardage. 
There isnt much more to say 
about the Chargers fate.
Expect the Super Bowl to have 
a lot of big plays. The 49ers will 
pass at will against the Charg
ers, neutralizing any effect Jun
ior Seau could possibly have on 
the outcome of the game. The 
Charger offense will probably be 
able to throw with some success, 
even without a running game, 
but they will not be able to score 
nearly enough points to win.
Final score: San Francisco 55, 
San Diego 28
JohnWeber is a senior civil en
gineering major.
6.eiKac ricKkKkl CioCh hTKJ rocJ Zei RoT Deiy riKC
By DAVID OSORIO
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens swim teams 
were in New York last weekend partici
pating in two meets. They traveled by bus 
 a long, eight hour trip - to swim against 
their opponents in the Big Apple.
The trip to New York was one of the few 
trips that was a cultural and competitive 
experience. Coach Jim Cutrone said, My 
swimmers are excited about the prospect 
of seeing a little bit more of New York 
than just swimming pools. I think they 
will enjoy themselves a lot.
Saturdays meet pitted CMU against 
New York University and the Merchant 
Marine Academy.
Cutrone expressed enthusiasm in this 
match because weve never before had 
the opportunity to swim against NYU. It 
will be a good experience for my swim
mers, especially since NYU is a UAA 
opponent.
Friday, the team took on Columbia, the 
first-ever Ivy League opponent for CMU. 
Before the trip, Cutrone said, the team 
and I are extremely excited to go to New 
York and compete against a team of their 
caliber.
The CMU team was well prepared for 
last weeks meet. During the winter break, 
the team had the opportunity to train in 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Cutrone ex
pressed that, even with the University 
contribution, the trip cost each swimmer 
about $500 apiece, but it was the best 
training trip weve ever had. The team 
trained six hours a day - including a one 
hour bus trip to the training site  from 
December 28 until January 12. Coach 
Cutrone calculated that each swimmer 
swam about 80 miles in those fourteen 
days.
Coming back to Carnegie Mellon, the 
team found that the pool had been sched
uled to be drained, acid washed, and re
grouted in their absence.
The problem occurred when the com
pany contracted to clean the pool took too 
long in completing this task. January 3 
was the day the pool company was sched
uled to finish the job, but it was not until 
January 11 that the pool was finally 
cleaned and filled.
According to Cutrone, the chemicals in 
the water needed time to settle, so with
out the pool, I had to modify my workouts. 
Pitt was very nice in letting us use a few 
lanes in their pool for us to train in.
Gabrien Symons/Acting Tatan Art Co-Editor  
The CMU mens and womens swim teams were definitely not freezing cold over winter 
break. They trained in the comfort of the Florida sun.
THE FORMULA FOR FAST-TRACK SUCCESS
Record-breaking perfor
mance is a way of life at 
Parametric Technology 
Corporation  whether 
you're talking about our revo 
lutionary mechanical CAD 
software, our continuing 
spectacular growth or the 
potential we offer for fasttrack careers.
PTCs team is made up of 
exceptional individuals
people from a variety of back
grounds united in their pursuit of 
excellence. 
We offer
The complete Formula One 
race car assembly contains 
more titan 40 subassemblies 
and over 300 parts. PTC's 
Pro/EWGINEER software 
product family accelerates 
the mechanical design 
process through a unique, 
parametric, feature-based 
solid modeling technology.
challenge and growth of the high
est degree to students graduating 
with a BS or MS in a technical 
degree. The following opportunities 
are available:
Boston. World Headquarters
 Software Engineers
 Programmer/Analysts
 Customer Support .Test Engineers
Boston OR U.S. Field Offices
 Application Engineers
 Education Specialists
 Database Specialists
PTC offers a dynamic, energized 
environment where exceptional 
professionals enjoy competitive 
compensation, a matching 401 (k) 
plan, employee stock purchase plan 
and a fully-paid benefits package.
To explore a high perfor
mance future with PTC, 
please visit your Career 
Placement Office. Direct 
resumes are also accepted: 
send or fax to Dept. P.)., 
Parametric Technology Corp., 
128 Technology Drive, 
Waltham, MA 02154.
Fax: (617)398-5674.
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/D/V.
PARAMETRIC
TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION
ON CAMPUS FEBRUARY 13TH.

---------------------------------------------------

EXPAND YOUR HORIZONS
at
CAREER 
WEEK 95
If students have a sense of belonging to their 
learning environment, they will be more 
responsible participants in its future.
To MOTIVATE YOUR STUDENTS tO the
point that they are inspired to teach is more than a 
talent. It's an affirmation of a 
job well done.
If you have been inspired by 
your instructors and want to
be an active participant in.the learning 
environment of over a thousand students every 
year, you have the opportunity. You have it now.
vtude4-In Go-''r
Workshop is hiring instructors for 
the Fall of 1995. Come to the Information 
Session on Thursday, Februar)' 2 at 4:30pm in 
the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 136A. 
Refreshments will be provided. 
Applications are available in the CSW office 
in Baker Hall 140B, on the CSW Student Server in 
the Clusters zone, and in -cwOO on Andrew. 
Completed applications are being accepted 
through Friday. February 3 at 5:00pm.
For ut&L -Imt&u24-tI please contact 
P-s.L''L GL-iL'D micki+@CMU.EDU, or 
c2I l2u uL&L&D dk3t+@andrew.cmu.edu.
Ho c keyish rip
ATTENTION 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Undergraduates and 
Graduate Students
Carnegie Mellon
Skills for Leadership
A Workshop for Emerging Studmt Leaders 
and Current Student Leaders
ag9
Looking for a Summer Job?
Want to Gain Valuable, Career-Related 
Work Experience?
Join The Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
For a University Summer Jobs Program 
Information Session and Pizza Break 
Monday, February 6, 1995 
Student Center, Room 207 
7:30-9 pm 
Sign up in the Placement Office 
January 30 - February 3
Sunday, February 5,1995 
Noon - 5:30 p.m. 
The Student Center
Attend to find out about actual summer job op
portunities with Pittsburgh-based high technol
ogy companies and let us help you find real 
world experience this summer.
Dress  Casual Resumes  Required
 Regis
 Infori
Hnl For More Information, Contact Anne Witchner at 268-8704
Sponsored by the Department of Student Activities
Registration forms available at the Student Center 
Information Desk, Student Activities & Student Affairs.
(

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 199513!
ADMINISTRATION
|M Director Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214; Asst. DirectorMikeGrzywinski, 
683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle 
Matta, X8-2053; President  Jim 
Saxon, X2-3872; Womens President 
-Amy Watchom, X2-2629; Vice Presi
dent  Matt Williams, x2-2490
DATES OF IMPORTANCE
Wednesday, January 25 IM Board 
Meeting, 4 pm, Gym Conference Rm. 
Email Basketball entries due by 4:30 
pm, mzlO+@andrew.cmu.edu 
Thursday> Jan 26  B-ball entries 
due by 4:30 pm, IM Office 
Monday, Jan 30B-ball Rules Clinic, 
4:30 pm, Thistle Hall 
Tuesday, Jan 31  First Night of Bball Games 
Wednesday, Feb 1  Email Floor 
Hockey entries due by 4:30 pm, 
jnzlO+@andrew.cmu.edu 
Thursday, Feb 2  Floor Hockey 
entries due by 4:30 pm, IM Office 
Friday, Feb 3  Floor Hockey rules 
clinic, 4 pm 
Monday, Feb 6 First night of Floor 
Hockey games
BASKETBALL
The 1995 intramural basketball ros
ters are due in the IM Office by 4:30 pm 
on Thursday, January 26. All teams 
should turn in their rosters as soon as 
possible. Last seasons 101 teams 
v/as the second-highest total in the 
school's history.
All teams that turn in their rosters 
must attend a MANDATORY Basketball 
Rules Clinic on Monday, January 30 at 
4:30 pm in Thistle Hall. All teams must 
have a representative at this meeting. 
Teams will not receive a game sched
ule unless they attend.
To get information on basketball, 
please call the IM Office (X8-2214 or 
X8-2053) or stop by the IM Office lo
cated in Room 101 in the gym.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
All faculty and graduate students 
who want to play in the Sunday after
noon league must contact the IM office 
or call Chris at X8-7121. Entries are 
due on Thursday, January 26.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Floor Hockey entries are due in the 
IM Office by 4:30 pm on Thursday, 
February 2. A mandatory rules clinic for 
all teams will be held on Friday, Febru
ary 3 at 4 pm in Thistle Hall. ALL teams 
must have a representative at this 
meeting.
Practice times for all Floor Hockey 
] teams will begin the week of January 
30 from 7-11 pm. Please check next 
weeks Tartan dr call the IM Office atx8- 
12214.
OFFICIALS
Work-Study and non-work study stu
dents who have an interest in basket
ball or floor hockey and wantto become 
officials should contact IM Director Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214, for more infor
mation. Interested students do not need 
to have officiating experience to work.
INTRAMURAL REMINDER
To enter your team by way of email, 
you MUST USE AN OFFICIAL ENTRY 
FORM. Acopywill periodically be posted 
to the official.athletic-dept-news" bboard.
EMAIL ENTRIES WILL NOT BE AC
CEPTED ANY OTHER WAY. Send the 
completed form to
mzlO+@andrew.cmu.edu. ALL EMAIL 
ROSTERS ARE DUE *24 HOURS* PRIOR 
TO THE ACTUAL DUE DATE. NO EXCEP
TIONS WILL BE MADE.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
6ishricroa Zckh ZsJo eoi ao.c Kk Rd* hochek
salaries and continuing labor disagree
ments. People may say that, but I have a 
difficult time believing it. I am also frus
trated, but that by no means is it going to 
keep me from enjoying the season thats 
ahead. I would bet money that those who 
say they are going to boycott hockey will
frustration grew.
I think thats the kicker for me and 
maybe for some other fans as well. Some
how the sport of hockey, and maybe sports 
in general, should be better than a simple 
profit making industry. There was some
thing epic and somehow pure about the
all we did to decide the game was sit onj 
the couch and wear a jersey!!! Sports are} 
immensely personal and tied to our ideas* 
of who we are. The strikes and lockoutsj 
this year have shattered a lot of illusionsj 
about the purity of the game. Most of] 
us heard the strike was coming though,}
Now, HonestLy!
by Eric Applewhite & Corey Zinn
Now, HonestLy! is a weekly column 
where Eric and Corey discuss, and 
argue, their views on topics in the NHL. 
This week, they discuss the recently 
settled lockout, and the settlement itself.
COREY: I must start off by saying that 
I am excited that the season has been 
saved, albeit abbreviated. I know these 
labor situations, shall we call them, are 
much more complex than the average fan 
realizes, but I still dont understand how 
it managed to last so long. Players were 
losing money, owners were losing money, 
and fans were distraught. And, as pointed 
out by others, the NHL was in a prime 
situation to increase their fan base and 
exposure with the cancellation of the base
ball season, but that opportunity came 
and went back in October.
For most of the lockout, the prime stick
ing point was the salary cap or tax. Own
ers said it was imperative, and players 
said was ludicrous. [Side note: of the four 
major professional team sports, football 
and basketball are the only two with fulllength seasons this year.] Well, I guess it 
wasnt as necessary as the owners said, 
because the new contract has no salary 
cap. However, the players gave way in 
the other major hold-up: free agency. The 
players originally wanted to be unre
stricted free agents at the age of 28; the 
owners said 32. The final six-year deal 
has players as unrestricted free agents at 
age 32 for the first year and 31 for the 
final five years. Both sides gave in on key 
issues, and thats what it is all about: 
compromise!
I must admit that I usually side with 
management when these strikes/lockouts 
occur because I just cant understand the 
need for more than a couple million dol
lars a year, anyway. In this case, I was 
getting very frustrated and disappointed 
with both sides. Ive also heard people say 
that theyre going to boycott hockey be
cause they are fed up with escalating
watch at least a game or two this season, nature of professional sports franchises, and baseball certainly prepared us. Even*Qononiol nr nnrinrrf ttrt i-1____1 T 1 1 lespecially during the 
playoffs. Im glad the 
differences have been 
settled (at least for 
the next four years, 
as both sides have the 
right to reopen the 
contract after four 
years), so let the 
games begin!
ERIC: Thank God!
Hockeys finally here.
W O 0 H O 0 ! ! !
YEEESSSSSS!!!! and 
all that stuff. Just 
when it looked dark
est, owners and play
ers salvaged a some
what anemic 48 game 
NHL season. Each 
day of the lockout, my 
suitemates and I ea
gerly watched ESPN 
for any positive signs 
that owners and play
ers might be making 
progress, and each 
day, we were disap
pointed. Every day 
we heard rumors, 
confirmed and other
wise, about dead
lines, and we whis
pered to one another 
wistfully about an 
ending to the hockey lockout that seemed 
to be as elusive as the Holy Grail itself. We 
desperately watched IHL games in a kind 
of half stupor, desperately hoping to see 
play worthy of the NHL. We cursed our
selves for buying cable when we werent 
even going to get to watch the NHL. Fi
nally, sick at heart and shaking our fists in 
vain, we purchased the Nintendo game 
NHL 95 figuring that if nothing else we 
could fake having a season by playing an 
imaginary one against one another. I 
couldnt believe the NHL had the audacity 
to deny its fans a season. As I watched the 
mud-slinging between players and own
ers drag on for a month, my sense of
Gabrlen Symons/Acting Tatan Art Co-Editor
The game was about more than the $2 
concession stand cokes, luxury sky boxes, 
and unproven rookies who somehow be
come millionaires overnight! Professional 
sports allow us to experience most of what 
is good about being human - competition, 
human excellence and athleticism, sports
manship, grace, and strength combine to 
make human athletic endeavors sacred to 
us. Most of us live and die by our vicarious 
team loyalties, at least around playoff time 
anyway. As much as we might try to deny 
it, we let the success and failure of our 
sport teams say something about who we 
are as people. When our team wins, we win 
and other fans become losers - even when
though I knew hockeyj 
was a business about' 
egos and dollars, I; 
wanted to believe that! 
I mattered to the game.| 
I wanted to believe that 
fans like me were what; 
gave a special impetus? 
to the game and madej 
it possible for these; 
players and owners toj 
be paid so well for play
ing a game! In the end, 
I wasnt even consid
ered, can you believe 
it?!!! Neither could I atj 
first, but welcome to! 
reality.
So what does thatj 
leave for fans whose il-! 
lusions stand on shaky; 
ground? Not much ex-; 
cept to kick back and! 
enjoy the season! Some! 
hockey is better than! 
none at all, if youre a! 
fan. I guess in the end! 
Ill take what I can get ! 
its just that I dont have ! 
to like it. Ive raged and! 
ranted about boycotting! 
the season and punish-! 
ing owners and players j 
whose egos are bigger! 
than the World Trade I 
Center, but in the end I know I wont, i! 
like hockey too much to ignore it when! 
its being played, and I think most fansi 
are the same. What we need more to do! 
as fans is show players and owners who! 
the game is really about - us. Unfortu-! 
nately, I dont think we have the disci-! 
pline to do so. So, well limp back to the! 
ice this season and slowly rediscover our! 
trust and enjoyment of the game.
Eric Applewhite is a senior psychol
ogy /philosophy major and Corey Zinn isa economics /material science engineer
ing major. They are currently tied at one 
apiece in their Nintendo season.
Hockey stays atop division with tough wins over Pitt, Penn State
HOCKEY, from page 9
game.
With around five 
minutes remaining, it 
looked as if CMU had 
pulled ahead when 
Cardillo sent a nice 
pass from Maddalena 
across the crease into 
the net. However, the 
goal was disallowed by 
the referee, who stated 
that Cardillo was ille
gally parked in the 
crease.
Cardillo was enraged 
by this call, but he and 
the rest of the team re
bounded to play strong 
the remainder of the game.
With only 2:46 remaining, CMU 
went ahead for good when Ardire 
rifled a wrist shot into the upper 
part of the net, following a re
bounded shot and a scuffle in 
front of the net.
CMU had anxiously been awaitJfm Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor 
Junior Roger Maddalena and fiis teammates celebrate a goal against Pitt.
ing Ardires return this semester football 
after the ending of the Tartan tion of
season and rehabilitahis injured shoulder.
Ardires superior of
fensive skills and 
monstrous checking 
proved to be worth 
waiting for as he put 
the Tartans ahead to 
close the scoring.
The game was far 
from over, though, as 
PSW played hard in 
the final two minutes 
and Kliegman was 
forced to make his fin
est saves of the game 
in a flurry of action. 
CMU had to feel good 
about this victory 
heading into 
Saturdays show
down with Pitt.
Kliegman had undoubtedly his
finest game of the season, as he! 
made many clutch saves through-! 
out the game. Ardires return and! 
Maddalenas offensive prowess! 
also boded well for the team. !
Not to be overshadowed, CMUs! 
tired defense, consisting of only! 
four skaters, played extremely! 
well.
After this important victory,! 
CMU now focused on the all-im-! 
portant game against Pitt.
With Saturdays victory over! 
Pitt, CMU upped their league' 
record to 4-1-1.
Next weekend, CMU takes on! 
Edinboro at Golden Mile IceArena on Friday at 10:30 pm and  
Duquesne at Neville Ice Arena 
on Saturday at 8 pm.
gW
8O1W(O
VISIT A NEW KIND OF MUSIC STORE...
Alternative, blues, jazz, imports, pop/rock, reggae, ska, 
techno, world plus 50 other categories...
JANUARY SALE
ALL $8.00 CD's: 3 for $20.00 
thru 1-31-95
10,000 new and used CD's,
hear any CD before you buy it,
low prices, buy or trade program, 
cheap large posters,
and the best deals in the area.
201 South Craig Street
Monday-Friday Oakland Saturday10am to 6pm 687-6626 11am to 5pm
Weve Made It Easier For The Class Of 95 To Drive The Class Of 95.
8d( 1** R(H 8)D)81 8(Og(*
Dual Air
More Power
More Safety 
Features
Side Door 
Impact Beams
Better Gas 
Mileage
1RW 8d( 8)D)81 g)**(4( 4O1W 3O)4O1#0
There's no better way to enter the work force than behind the wheel of the all-new, always dependable Toyota Tercel.
And its easy with Toyota's special college graduate program... you get Toyolas premier rate*, no down payment, no payments for 90 days, 
and a year of free roadside assistance. Just see your participating Toyota dealer for all the details.
WERE MAKING IT EASIER FOR COLLEGE GRADS.
 COLLEGE GRADUATE PROGRAM FINANCED THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION'S 60 MONTH PREMIER RATE  TOTAL FINANCED CANNOT EXCEED MSRP PLUS OPTIONS. TAX 
AND LICENSE FEES. FINANCING AVAILABLE WITH APPROVED CREDIT THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION. DEFERRED FINANCE CHAPGES ACCRUE FROM THE CONTRACT DATE 
SEE PARTICIPATING DEALER FOR DETAILS.
TOYOTA
Love V.hai You Do For Mr

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA OUTLET
Tailored to your hometown taste
1 I /
687-9555
FREE DELIVERY
E/LARGE 16 CHEESE PIZZA DELIVERED
TOPPINGS EXTRA. ONE COUPON PER ORDER. PLEASE 
MENTION COUPON WHEN ORDERING. NOT VALID 
WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. EXPIRES 2/15/95.

---------------------------------------------------

Franclne Gemperte/ Tartan Acting Art Co-EditorMartin Luther King Day reduced to forgotten dream
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Its common knowledge throughout the rest of 
the country that Monday, January 16, was Martin 
Luther King Day. However, if you attend CMU you 
may not have known. As the rest of the country 
took the day to reflect upon the lifetime achieve
ments of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we were 
attending the first day of second semester classes.
The Universitys failure to observe Martin Luther 
King Day has triggered anger as well as apathy 
throughout Carnegie Mellons campus. Sydney 
Kamlager, a first year graduate student at the 
Heinz School for Public Policy, said, I was and still 
am appalled by the refusal of the school to observe 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr/s birthday, especially 
after what special interest groups and concerned 
citizens have had to do to get a national holiday.
She added, After the state of Arizona decided 
that they would not acknowledge the holiday, the 
entire nation went up in arms. And yet that state 
seems to be more representative of... this countrys 
[race relations than we really thought.
Some students feel that since the situation is out 
of their control, it is pointless to make a big deal 
about it. Our opinions arent really heard, said 
Tasha Cartar, a junior chemical engineering ma
jor. Besides, I have so much work I dont have time 
to devote to this to make an effective change. 
Patrick Silver, a graduate student who teaches
anything to get done. The students on this campus 
do not have the time or the power to fight this. The 
administration uses this to its advantage. This is a 
private institution. It doesnt have to do anything. 
Despite these views, the administration claims 
that the University does, in fact, observe Martin 
Luther King Day. Michael Murphy, Dean of StuIts not so much that they had classes, but I saw nothing 
about this holiday on campus. This school is supposed to 
be about diversity, but nothing is done to promote diversity 
 Ayanna Sawyer, freshman biology major
Argument and Interpretation classes as well as a 
few 200-level English courses, feels that the stu
dent body is so busy with their studies, jobs, and 
other activities, that they cannot do much about 
the controversial problems that arise on CMUs 
campus.
He said, A great deal of diplomacy is required for
dent Affairs, said, The university does observe 
Martin Luther King by celebration every year. In 
the past, there has been a formal program of 
speakers and music and a candlelight vigil through 
the campus on Martin Luther King Day. This year, 
the decision was made to have the celebration in 
the form of an active community service project in
Dr. Kings memory. The program was held on 
Saturday and was orchestrated in conjunction with 
the Shepherd Wellness Community.
He added, I think everyone involved was excited 
about a celebration which focused on actual giving 
to the local area, consistent with Dr. Kings mes
sage of hope and investment in one community.
Murphy also stated that if a student wants to 
miss class on various holidays he or she has the 
freedom to do so.
He said, Given the national, religious, and cul
tural diversity of this campus, it is reasonable to 
expect that many members of the community will 
have days of celebration on which classes are held 
and offices open, and so personal accommodation is 
a very important consideration. For students them
selves, the expectation is that they may arrange 
with faculty or supervisors for due consideration 
on special days of celebration which may result in 
a missed class or work assignment.
Despite Murphys comments, it is evident that 
events held in memory of Dr. Martin Luther King 
have been poorly advertised throughout the school 
Please see MLK, page L3
Civil rights leader achieved greatness
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Martin Luther King Jr. 
stands out as one of the most 
influential forces in the Ameri
can Civil Rights Movement, as 
well as one of the most brilliant 
orators, leaders, and propo
nents for equal rights that this 
country has ever seen.
His legacy of organized non
violent resistance to the injus
tices of institutionalized rac
ism have left an indelible mark 
on the consciences of Ameri
cans of all races.
Because of this dedication to 
equity, Kings birthday was 
declared a national holiday in 
1983.
King was born in Atlanta, 
Georgia in 1929, and was 
schooled in sociology, theology, 
and philosophy at Morehouse 
College, Crozear Theological 
Seminary, and Boston Univer
sity, respectively.
He studied Mahatma Ghandi 
in his philosophical studies and 
incorporated many aspects of 
his concepts of nonviolent pro
test into his writings and stratIn 1960 he became president of 
the Southern Christian Leader
ship Conference (SCLC). During 
the next four years he traveled 
throughout the South, advocat
ing voter registration campaigns.
In 1963 he organized the enor
mous March on Washington, 
where he gave his famous I Have 
a Dream speech. The following 
year he became the youngest re
cipient of the Nobel Peace Prize 
in 1964 and was the first black 
man to be dubbed Time 
magazines Man of the Year.
Kingbegan to focus on economic 
as well as social oppression after 
a tour of northern cities in 1965. 
He called for a reconstruction of
the entire society, a revolu
tion of values, as he became 
aware of the complementary 
relationship between poverty 
and economics to racism.
While championing stronger 
civil and voting rights legisla
tion and a substantial poverty 
budget, he publicly opposed 
the Vietnam War in 1967.
King was assassinated in 
1968 while organizing a multi
racial march on Washington 
for the poor.
Although James Earl Ray 
was convicted of his murder, 
the question of conspiracy has 
still not been conclusively an
swered.
In 1954 he accepted a posi
tion as a pastor in Montgom
ery. Alabama, where he and 
his peers successfully organized 
a year-long bus-boycott to proIn a real sense, all life is interrelated. The agony of the poor 
impoverishes the rich; the betterment of the poor enriches 
the rich. We are inevitably our brothers keeper because we 
are our brothers brother. 
 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
CMU celebrated MLK Day in past
By ALLEE KING
Tartan Staffwriter
For the past eight years, the 
Carnegie Mellon Action Program 
(CMAP), has been sponsoring and 
organizing events on campus in 
observance of Dr. Martin Luther 
King Jr.s birthday, and in recog
nition of the causes that he fought 
for during his life.
Beginning in January of 1987 
and continuing through last year, 
CMAP has organized a memorial 
service for Dr. King every year. 
The services brought speakers, 
choirs, students, staff, adminis
tration and others together for a 
time of awareness and thought.
The first memorial service in 
1987, entitled The Man: The 
Legacy, was an hour-long ser
vice held in the Drill Deck that 
included a guest speaker from 
the Calvary Baptist Church and 
a performance by the Carnegie 
Mellon Voices United Gospel 
Choir.
In 1991, a campus Candlelight 
Vigil was held in mid-evening, 
following a service that brought a 
guest speaker from WPIX-TV 
Channel 11 News.
According to Lavalla Wilson, a 
counselor at CMAP, the memo
rial services have been a continu
ing success since they first be
gan. Even last year an estimated
100 people trekked through ter
rible weather to attend the ser
vice. Each year, posters andmassmailings would go out to the com
munity informing them of the 
upcoming event, as well as de
tailing the service.
This year was the first year 
that the program was different. 
In observance of the nation-wide 
push for involvement in commu
nity service, a service project 
rather than a memorial service 
was scheduled.
Entitled Kingian Nonviolence 
in Action,it was designed around 
the notion of empowering future 
generations to serve. The celebra
tion was held in the Drill Deck on 
January 14, two days before the 
start of the second semester.
Despite the fact that a lot of the 
community was still on vacation, 
and the transitional period be
tween semesters is busy, Wilson 
felt positive about the success of 
the event.
Some students even came back 
early just to attend.Twenty-eight 
people, a combination of students 
and staff, signed up in total, which 
was, Wilson said, a sufficient 
number for participation. It was 
a really good experience.
Various student groups and 
university offices on campus, such 
as Voices United Gospel Choir, 
the Student Affairs office, the In
terfaith Council, and Spirit orga
nization, have been involved in 
the programs that CMAP has or
ganized in the past.
This combination of people, 
however, is only a small number
of the CMU community as a 
whole.
Although the turnouts were 
successful for events sponsored 
and organized by only a few cam
pus organizations, the numbers 
of people who have attended the 
memorial services and this years 
community service project have 
been small relative to the univer
sity population.
A question here to be asked is 
whether or not it is in call for the 
university as a whole to hold more 
extensive events to successfully 
reach the entire community, and 
to communicate Dr. Kings im
portance and influence to every
one, and not just a small percent
age of the university.
Michael Murphy, the Dean of 
Student Affairs, supports the idea 
of a more extended program in 
observance of Dr. King. I think 
CMAP, Lavalla Wilson in par
ticular, has done a wonderful job 
with the programs have run .... 
for various university offices and 
student organizations to host 
other programs would be a nice 
tribute.
In addition, he sees taking 
advantage of other activities in 
the city and perhaps combining 
the past memorial service and 
Candlelight Vigil as ideas for cel
ebrations in the future.
Murphy recognizes the diffi
culty of organizing events at the 
beginning of the semester for 
many of the groups on campus.
T TTTT1T/Nma niara mani raraL1V11U
Volume 89. Issue 13The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania23 January 1995
----- ----------- - BMIHBIlWffl'MlllllllillHlllllll^id

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995
Getting up-close with President Mehrabian
By GEL ALTEROWITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
What is the role of a president of a university? 
:What types of issues does the president address 
and how does he feel about these issues? I con
ducted an interview with President Robert 
Mehrabian in order to find out what goes on behind 
I ,the scenes, as well as to discuss future plans for the 
university. Mehrabian commented on other issues 
which concern students, such as how the univer
sity helps students adjust to college life, and the 
fact that universities are constantly competing for 
reputation, top students, and government grants. 
Additionally, the interview reveals that the presi
dent serves as a role model, while helping to create
- a plan for the future of the University through his 
participation in and commitment to a variety of 
committees.
Q: What new projects and innovative enT deavors is the university currently under
taking to enhance academics and the quality 
of life?
A: In the quality of life, of course, we have ... the 
i University Center and the Performing Arts Center 
which we will be building. We have also added 
significantly to our advising programs. Each of the 
departments are doing that on their own, the 
colleges are doing that, the university central ad
ministration is doing that.
We have a whole series of new programs that 
came out of the various task forces that Dr. Erwin 
Steinberg, Vice Provost for Education, established 
over two years ago concerning how to improve 
undergraduate education and quality of life on 
campus.
Those task forces came up with recommenda
tions that we are implementing now, including the 
ease with which students can move from college to 
college, and being able to take a minor in another 
college very easily.
Then, we are paying a lot of attention to our 
teaching programs. Especially at our teaching cen
ter, where we focus on making teachers better 
teachers. That is a major endeavor and we have 
made new investments in that... the most recent 
one that we are focusing on is a whole new plan that 
will focus on innovation in learning ... and that 
includes teaching them problem solving skills. We 
have increased the number of the opportunities for 
students to do research, for example.
Q: What types of projects and changes have 
you seen while you were President of 
Carnegie Mellon University?
A: I think the biggest thing that has happened is 
that we have fairly cleanly articulated our priori
ties. We have to really put a lot of emphasis on 
undergraduate education and make that as dy
namic, as intellectually challenging, and as inno
vative as a lot of the other things that we do.
We have to maintain our mode of doing interdis
ciplinary research and keep the fact that we focus 
on a few areas that we can be really good at. Next, 
we need to build the physical infrastructure of the 
university which is the building.
The new GSIA building was built, the University 
Center, the Arts center, and we have a new mate
rials building that we are going to build in front of 
Hamerschlag Hall. Next, we need to build a much 
closer affiliation between the university and our 
community. We are building a technology park by 
the river. And we have to put much more emphasis 
on what we can do for the community, especially 
programs like K-12 education programs, outreach 
programs to the community, and helping the eco
nomic development of the community.
Q: How will the new University Center be 
different from the old one?
A: First off, it will be much more spacious. It is 
about 240,000 
square feet of us
able space versus 
the 90,000 that 
we had in Skibo.
Plus it has a base
ment area that is 
another 40,000 
square feet. We 
probably wont 
put it in immedi
ately but it will be 
available for fu
ture renovations.
So it is going to be 
three times as big 
... If you go inside 
the building, 
there would be a 
significantly 
larger number of 
spaces for student 
activities includ
ing offices, confer
ence facilities, 
club activities, etc.
There will also be 
athletic facilities 
in there which 
were not present
Tartan Rie Photo
Carnegie Mellon University President Robert Mehrabian
ally gone up... and a lot of the government research 
programs that were available in the 1970s and 
1980s are being cut. So universities in general are 
under a lot of financial pressure that they havent 
been before.
Q: What are the goals of a university?
A: The first and foremost goal of a university is to 
serve the educational needs of its students. Within 
that framework, especially in research universi
ties, we have to conduct scholarly activities to keep 
the intellectual environment of the university sus
tained and rejuvenated continuously.
Q: From your 
position, what 
do you think 
are the
strengths and 
weaknesses of 
Carnegie 
Mellon?
A: We are prob
ably the most in
novative educa
tional institution 
in the nation and 
we have been 
that way for a 
long time as evi
denced by how 
our programs 
have grown in 
things like our 
business school, 
our computer sci
ence school and 
the initial 
Carnegie Plan 
that combined 
technical educa
tion with liberal 
arts education.
in Skibo. We will have a swimming pool, a diving We are probably the most interdisciplinary envipool, basketball courts, racquet ball, and handball ronment in the country among universities.
courts. We will have dining facilities that will be 
far superior to anything we have now. We will have 
a really first-class facility for lectures and getting 
together.
Q: Do you see any overall trends in univer
sities currently?
A: Yes, the biggest trend affecting universities is
People here cross intellectual and disciplinary 
boundaries very easily as evidenced by our capa
bility to maintain approximately 50 centers of 
excellence in research, compete, and get funded. 
For example, we were recently one of the six recipi
ents of major funding across the country in the new 
digital libraries that are being sponsored. We won 
our part of the program  the use of digital video 
that they are finally being faced with the same for information. We have been recognized for our
types of issues that industries have confronted in 
the recent past, and that is one of the changes that 
has happened to us too.
We have had to really improve the management 
of the university in terms of how we use our limited 
financial resources. Universities are being chal
lenged to adopt processes like quality manage
ment in the way they operate, examine the things 
they should and shouldnt do in terms of programs, 
and focus on things they can be good at.
There is recognition that the costs of going to 
school have been increasing far too fast, and that 
people cannot afford it. We have to slow down the 
rate of tuition increases. The demand on the uni
versity for scholarships and financial aid has re
capability to work with industry.
Our weaknesses are primarily in the kinds of 
things that we are trying to address today. We have 
historically had a weakness in not having really 
good physical facilities for activities which are 
outside the classroom. Thats why we are building 
a university center. Thats why we built all of East 
Campus in our master plan. Thats why we are 
building a center for the arts and so on. The other 
weakness is that we have not put the same energy 
and dynamic emphasis in our undergraduate pro
grams as we have in our research programs. We 
have always had really good undergraduate pro
grams, but to have them be commensurated with 
our research, we would have to really put empha
sis on that. And frankly that is my number o^ 
priority. That includes improving the retention o] 
our students as well as the things that students do 
outside the classroom, including athletics.
Q: What are Carnegie Mellons strongest 
departments?
A: First and foremost, we are ranked number one 
in the nation in computer science. We have the 
largest program in the nation in computer science 
We spend approximately somewhere between 80 
and 90 million dollars a year in research for com. 
puter science and information sciences. We also 
have one of the most sophisticated computer networks in the country that cuts across all of our 
disciplines.
While we have about 7,000 students (4,200 undergraduates and 2,800 graduates), we have 9,500 
computers on this campus plus two supercomputers. 
And of course our engineering is very strong and so 
on, but I dont want to leave the impression thatv?( 
are just an engineering and a technology school 
We probably have the number-one ranked rhetoric 
graduate program in the nation.
Simultaneously, we have one of the highest rank
ing programs in cognitive psychology and a very 
successful program in applied history. And then 
you can go to fields like-art where we have the 
oldest program in drama and one of the nations top 
ranked colleges in drama. So our strengths are not 
just in one area, but they cut across various disci
plines.
Q: From your perspective, what do you 
think are the biggest changes that students 
face in the transition between high schoo 
and college?
A: The biggest transition, I think, is that when 
you go to college, there are two things that happen 
First, the amount of work and responsibility in 
creases significantly. Its not like going from elev 
enth to twelfth grade. There is almost a quantum 
jump in that.
Along with that, comes a significant factor in thi 
independence of the student in managing his or he 
life and his or her time. Its kind of coupled issue 
With the freedom, comes increased responsibility 
What happens at Carnegie Mellon and other goot 
schools like ours is that there is an additiona 
component that comes in.
Most of our students were doing really well in 
high school and were the very smart students 
very good grades, and they had a comparative 
advantage over the other students. And when the] 
come here, they find out that all of the othei 
students are just as smart or enjoyed similar 
tributes in high school. The students find them 
selves in a much more competitive environment... 
so in schools like ours ... there is the need to work 
hard in order to stay ahead and be competitive and 
successful.
Q: How would you describe Carnegie Mellon 
to someone who has never been seen it be
fore?
A: Innovative, entrepreneurial, hard-working, 
interdisciplinary, and small enough to work as 
family and large enough to be intellectually chal
lenging.
Womens Center offers resources
By SHARMILA 
VENKATSUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Womens Center is one of 
the many resources offered at 
Carnegie Mellon. It is an organi
zation aimed at providing infor
mation and a viable arena in 
which to promote feminism and 
activism on campus. Open to both 
sexes, the center hosts a variety 
of issues that affect womens lives 
, and their existence in todays so
ciety.
We feel that there is an impor
tant role for the CMlFs Womens 
. Center in identifying and ad
dressing the problems, needs and 
goals of women... in the commu
nity, said Jennifer Potter, a 
Carnegie Mellon graduate who 
now works on campus.
One of the centers main goals 
is to dispel the traditional image 
of the feminist; an embittered 
anti-men and anti-sex being that 
I intimidates most people.
People have always had a pre
conception that the center is 
mainly politically motivated, 
some sort of feminist party line, 
but thats not the case here, ex
plained Potter.
The idea was bom in the spring 
I of 1989, after three graduating 
seniors approached the adminis
tration with a collective number 
of signatures supporting the cre
ation of an on-campus womens 
j center. Because Carnegie Mellon 
is an institution that is primarily 
male dominated due to the ex| treme ratio of males to females, 
by January of 1990, the Center 
opened with the approval of the
Student Senate, the Office of 
Student Affairs and other ad
ministrators. The structure of 
the Center revolves around a col
lective, in which everyone has an 
equal voice and is welcome to 
join. Its [the collective] purpose 
is very broad, open to any ideas 
and concerns as long as they per
tain to womens issues, said Pot
ter. To become a member of the 
collective is relatively simple; just 
show up to two meetings, she 
added. The collective meets on a 
regular basis at the Centers fa
cility.
The Womens Center also acts 
as a meeting place for various 
campus groups who need a place 
to gather, such as Stop Rape, 
Survivors of Sexual Assault, Riot 
Grrrlz, IVCF Womens Bible 
Study Group, Campus Associa
tion for Reproductive Rights, 
cmuOUT and Lesbian Avengers.
One rational to the low num
bers of members can be attrib
uted to a misconception of the 
Center as another organization 
focusing on the promotion of gay
and lesbian rights. While the 
Center is definitely gay-friendly, 
and some lesbian oriented issues 
are brought up, it is not the un
derground lesbian headquarters, 
responded Potter.
In the past the Center has pro
vided numerous services and pro
grams from film festivals to ac
tive involvement in the Student 
Dormitory Councils Sex Week, to 
the hosting of feminist activist 
speakers on and off campus. The 
Centers facility serves as a space 
for women to hang out, feel com
fortable, watch movies and find 
books and information in its li
brary which is a main project of 
the members this semester. The 
library houses over 700 books, 
from journals to comics. The cen
ter also offers an ear to listen to 
any problems that women in the 
community are facing, but does 
not have counseling services.
The Womens Center is located 
on Margaret Morrison Plaza. Any
one interested in becoming a mem
ber can call 268-3595 or send email 
to women+@andrew.cmu.edu.
LAW OFFICES OF GARY STEINER
? IMMIGRATION LAW - Permanent Residence (Green Cards), Work 
Permits, Change of Status
? INJURIES - Accidents, Improper Medical & Dental Car e, Dangerous 
Products - No fee unless we collect
& FAMILY - Divorce, Custody, Pre-nuptial Agreements 
-Ct BUSINESS - Contracts, Start-ups, Negotiations, Joint V entures, Real 
Estate & Business Transactions 
tV EMPLOYMENT LAW - Wrongful Discharge, Discrimination, SexualHarassment
ENTERTAINMENT, ARTS, & MEDIA LAW
ONE OXFORD CENTRE - PITTSBURGH 255-3777
At Bolt Beranek and Newman our 
innovative expertise makes us a 
magnet for the best minds in high tech.
Headquartered in Cambridge, MA, Bolt Beranek and Newman (BBN) is a trailblazing 
leader whose research and development have set the course for many of todays most 
advanced technologies. BBN offers hands-on involvement in creating the technologies 
of the future  in an environment that supports individual achievement and growth.
Create 
the next 
course 
technology 
will take
Being part of BBN is being part of a worldwide community of 
more than 1,500 employees dedicated to scientific and techni
cal excellence. The challenges are as diverse as your interests 
 and the advantages as appealing as fully competitive salaries 
and benefits...tuition reimbursement and in-house scientific 
development programs.. .and an exceptional workplace offering 
libraries, exercise facilities and advanced computer tools.
If youre about to graduate with a 
degree in Computer Science or a 
related field, consider joining our team.
To explore our leading edge career 
opportunities, sign up to interview on 
campus, or send your resume 
to Dept. PB,
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.,
10 Moulton Street,
Cambridge, MA 02138;
E-Mail: pbagley@bbn.com.
We are an Equal Oppor
tunity Employer M/F/D/V.
NETWORKING 
SPEECH & NATURAL 
LAN C. L AG E PROC ESS IN G 
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
SENSOR & SURVEILLANCE 
SYSTEMS 
PARALLEL PROCESSING 
MARINE ENGINEERING 
ENVIRONMENTAL &
UNDERWATER ACOUSTICS 
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS 
AUTOMATED SYSTEMS 
EDUCATION 
TECHNOLOGIES 
STATISTICAL DATA 
ANALYSIS 
DIGITAL SIGNAL 
PROCESSING
We will be on 
campus 
Feb. 1st

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995L3
MLK Day unnoticed
MLK, from page LI
campus.
Greg Bolton, a teaching" associate of 
Literary and Cultural Theory said I 
heard nothing about these events this 
year or last year.
Ayanna Sawyer, a freshman biology 
major, feels as ifthe school did nothing 
about the holiday. She said, Its not so 
much that they had classes, but I saw 
nothing about this holiday on campus. 
This school is supposed to be about 
diversity, but nothing is done to pro
mote diversity.
However, many feel the University 
should observe all national holidays, 
particularly this one. Bolton said, I 
dont normally have class on Martin 
Luther King Day, but usually it isnt 
the first day of the semester.
Because classes started on the 16th 
it was difficult to cancel class because 
I didnt want to confuse students by 
leaving a sign that says See you on 
Wednesday.1 
Bolton was skeptical about cancel
ing class because it may have caused 
problems with those students who 
needed to register or ask him ques
tions about the course.
I did, however, hold class for no 
more than 15 minutes and then ex
plained to my students the reason for 
the early dismissal, he said.
The fact that classes began on Mon
day for the first time enraged Bolton. 
He said, It was sort of like a slap in 
the face.
Silver, who also decided to caricel 
class on Martin Luther King Day, said, 
I dont always cancel class for na
tional holidays, but I did for this one 
because it should be more on the pub
lic mind. Martin Luther King is a 
symbol of the entire Civil RightsMovement. Heis a symbol of a fight that has 
been going oninthis country, andheis 
such an important part in the history 
of the United States.
He added, I did not want to signal 
disregard to my students. I did not
want them to think that history does 
not mean anything to me. 
Kamlager also believes the univer
sity should not hold classes on Mar
tin Luther King Day.
I honestly feel that we should ob
serve Dr. Kings birthday. We cel
ebrate every dead president we have 
ever had, and yet the man who stood 
for, fought for, and died for change, 
and probably the only man who re
ally m ade a difference in this country 
still cannot get recognition.
By not celebrating Martin Luther 
King Day, said Bolton, it seems as if 
the University does not care about 
this important American.
He added, I am certain that if 
CMU had a larger black population, 
there would be no question about 
celebratingMartin Luther RingDay. 
Bolton believesthe University views 
Martin Lutlier King day as a black 
holiday when, in fact, it is a day that 
affects all of America.
The holiday is not taken seriously 
by many Americans. This is one of 
the most important national holidays 
we have.
Indeed, the fact that CMU does not 
recognizeMartinLuther Kings birth
day as an important holiday has 
brought doubt and controversy to the 
student body.
As the institution emphasizes di: versity, it is reluctant to promote the 
historical events that have shaped 
the culture of our country and are so 
much a part of our lives.
Kamlager feels the University is 
failing its students,
She said, The thing that really 
upsets me is that this is an academic 
institution which claims to strive for 
excellence in all:areas; an institution 
which claims to foster international 
relation between students through 
academic study and interaction. How 
will this ever come about when their 
objectives say one thing and their 
policies another?
Memorization of periodic table leads to life of restless introvert
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
Now that Ive come back from winter 
break ready, willing, and able (hope
fully) to suffer the slings and arrows of 
academia, I have abandoned my sched
ule of sleeping 13 hours a day and doing 
nothing productive the other 11. Oh, to 
live those halcyon days again...
Anyway, I have ______________
since come up with a 
new schedule to try 
and take whats com
ing to me:
out part lasts from 4:30 pm to 12:00 am, 
and on Saturday it lasts all damn day 
until another lame and boring Satur
day Night Live comes on.
Ah, yes ... I live the life of the CMU 
introvert.
Normally the most exciting thing that 
happens to me all night is getting a 
phone call, and thats a very rare occa
sion.
I was thinking about starting an In
troverts Club here on campus, but Im 
sure no one would come.
As far back as I can remember 
0Goodfellas voice starts here) Ive al
ways been an introvert.
Its not that I hated people or didnt 
want to associate with anybody, they 
just called me weird and those other
7 am: Get up. Hit 
snooze bar every 
seven minutes until 
roommate throws 
cold water over my 
head.
8:30 am-12:30 
pm: Classes.
12:30-2:30 am: Classes or work.
3:00-4:30 pm: Classes or, if Im 
lucky, dinner.
4:30-8:30pm: Sparse interludes of 
television.
8:00-11:00pm: Think about going 
out, but not muster enough courage 
and gumption to actually do it.
12:00 am - Collapse into slumber 
awakened at different intervals from 
sugar and caffeine consumed since 
1987, asking repeatedly, Why the hell 
didnt I go out last night?
This schedule can be applied to almost 
any day of the week, except Friday and 
Saturday.
On Friday the thinking about going
Normally the most exciting thing that happens 
to me all night is getting a phone call, and 
thats a very rare occasion ... I was thinking 
about starting an Introverts Club here on cam
pus, but I'm sure no one would come.
adjectives I remember so well (a com
plete list would take up about two pages 
of newsprint).
Stuff like that in elementary school 
age tends to hurt ones character.
Also memorizing the periodic table in 
fourth grade doesnt really do that much 
to alleviate the situation.
I found that out the hard way. To this 
day I still get asked by people about the 
atomic number of neodymium. I was in 
the Gifted Club in school, of course, and 
that was about it.
I was rotten at chess (I still am; if any 
chess player needs to boost his/her con
fidence come to Donner 231 and bring 
your set).
I couldnt ski. I couldnt sing. I cant act 
despite what some people have told me.
All this often left me sitting in 
homeroom with my face buried in a 
textbook, half-heartedly looking at the 
actual words.
But that was then, and this is now. I 
have to look at the words.
Im still trying to find venues to break 
out of my shell of shyness.
However, since I dont own any Magic 
cards or know where to get such things, 
the chances of that happening are very 
small.
So, I have developed some fun activi
ties that any introvert like myself can 
partake in the privacy of their very own 
campus. One is subsisting on Ramen 
noodles six days a week.
Another is doing stuff on your com
puter for five hours straight (Person
ally, I dont have 
a computer, and 
my roommate 
has a password 
lock on his, so I 
just have to 
press some keys 
and imagine).
Another is fil
ing lawsuits 
just for the heck
Others include 
riding exercise bikes, running on a dark 
stadium track and seeing the bats fly 
around West Wing and Resnik, finding a 
free computer and reading all your mail 
six times over, and climbing over the 
fences of the University Center construc
tion site and playing in the giant mounds 
of dirt. The dirt thing is very therapeu
tic.
Tom Harper, Physics / CS major and 
English minor, thinks "Saturday Night 
Live should be renamed The Chris 
Farley show with occasional cameos by 
Norm MacDonald and Mike Myers.  Just 
for fun hell add about six new boards to 
the growing graffiti.donner_2e tree and 
buy a 2 gigabyte hard drive. The com
puter might have to come later, though...
).a #ck Wekkoi7h Jocr,c..hn hrKivZi caa hCKfo re aeiJ .KZo
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Welcome back to Old Man 
Donners kitchen! A hearty happy 
New Year to you all, and I hope 
you had enjoyable, filling, and 
delicious breaks.
I, for one, was visited by Santa 
with new cooking toys  a real, 
hand-cranked pasta maker, a 
cookbook, and a Calphalon wok 
(for those of you who dont know, 
Calphalon is the best thing since 
sliced bread; its anodized alumi
num: easy heating, no-stick, and 
okay with metal utensils  no 
Teflon scraping off into your 
scrambled eggs [mm, mm, 
tasty!]). So, see if you can trace 
these threads as I take you on a 
culinary journey...
Cucumber Sandwich 
Appetizer
that miniature rye bread
cucumber
mayonnaise
lemon pepper seasoning
Appropriately enough, well 
start with a starter: this makes a 
classy opening to a nice dinner 
with friends, or a simple snack 
whenever.
Simply skin the cuke however 
you please (stripes look cool) and 
slice it up.
Spread a little mayo on each 
slice of bread, slap on a cuke 
slice, and sprinkle that season
ing. Deee-lish!
An alternate recipe might in
clude a little mustard, or you 
could try cream cheese, or even 
tuna (straight or as a salad). 
However you do it, this is a dish 
any bonehead  er, novice  
could handle in no time.
Meatballs
. ground beef
egg
bread crumbs
Italian seasonings
This is another easy one. I told 
you months ago how simple it is 
to make your own spaghetti sauce, 
and I still encourage it highly, 
but this is a good way to add 
interest to a mass-produced, 
store-bought, jarred and pasteur
ized corporate conglomeration of 
old tomatoes and cheap spices. 
Just combine the above ingredi
ents in likely proportions.
Okay, I guess if I leave it at 
that, Im not quite earning my 
keep.
Lets try, a pound or two of beef, 
one egg, a cup of crumbs, and 
however much spice you think it 
takes.
Your Basic Stir-Fry
chicken
red & green pepper
mushrooms
garlic
onion
snow peas
bean sprouts
broccoli
soy sauce
I realize that meatloaf is something of 
a bastion of middle class suburban 
mediocrity; but if well done, its a credit 
to any menu.
Make into balls, and either bake 
(for crusty-style) or fry in olive oil 
(turning gradually). Throw them 
in the sauce at least a little before 
its done (1530 minutes would 
probably be good if you can), and 
enjoy.
I should also add that this is a 
pretty basic meatloaf recipe, too. 
I realize that meatloaf is some
thing of a bastion of middle class 
suburban mediocrity, but if well 
done, its a credit to any menu.
If you do a meatloaf, think 
about adding lamb or other highgrade meat; also, chopped pep
pers, onion, garlic  whatever. 
Just make it interesting.
stir-fry oil 
rice wine vinegar
Now I realize that few of you 
have woks, but this should work 
in a frying pan OK
Also, I dont have rice wine 
vinegar either, but any clear vin
egar should make a decent sub
stitute.
Finally, my stir-fry oil came 
with the wok, so I dont know 
about substitutions, except to say 
that youll need more spices (hot 
pepper, frinstance) if youre only
using olive or vegetable oil.
That said, chop everything into 
small pieces, except: strips of 
chicken, minced garlic, pick off 
the ends of the snow peas, and for 
Petes sake, leave the sprouts 
alone!
First put the chicken in a bowl 
with 1 tablespoon of soy sauce 
and the garlic.
Heat up the pan to high with 1 
tablespoon oil in it; when its hot, 
add the chicken, turning and stir
ring until its all white.
Heat in stir-fry is all-impor
tant, for thats what keeps meat 
tender, veggies crisp, and sprouts 
unwilted.
Once the chickens done, take it 
back off, add a bit more oil, and 
throw in the hard veggies  all 
but the sprouts, shrooms, and 
broccoli.
Cook them for three minutes, 
then add one tablespoon each of 
the soy, oil, and vinegar (a little 
less vinegar, depending how 
much its like rice wine), then 
throw in the remaining veggies.
Heat for two more minutes, stir
ring all the while, then return the 
chicken, pepper the whole thing, 
and remove from heat. Ready to 
serve.
Obviously, your choices will 
vary with availability, expense,
and taste  thats fine.
Other possibilities include cab
bage (soft vegetable), bamboo 
shoots, waterchestnuts, carrots 
 whatever; also, any meat or, of 
course, none at all will do just 
fine.
Stir-fry is all about variety (and 
that little thing I like to call Yumyumminess)so go nuts! [Ed.  
He means metaphorically; dont 
consider this a recommendation 
to run amuck with a machine 
gun].
Well, thats about it for this 
week. Id like to have some feed
back from yall, so, at great risk to 
my own person and the privacy of 
my family, Im going to ask you to 
email any questions or comments 
you have, and Ill respond in a 
couple weeks.
My address is jr4q@andrew, etc. 
I can hardly wait to hear from 
you all (God help me).
Apres moi, la deluge.
Jason Roth is just about out of 
here. Although he studying archi
tecture here at CMU for a fifth 
year, he practices culinary wiz
ardry on the sly. After the conclu
sion of the semester, he is off to the 
exciting world of alumnus status 
... Yahoo!
Carnegie Mellon University Learning Services announces:
Study Skills Tutoring
Is the amount of time you study reflected in your grades?
If not, then you may benefit from study skills tutoring that can 
demonstrate more effective study strategies and techniques:
note taking
test taking strategies
defeating procrastination
managing stress and test anxiety
one on one assistance in time management
Available FREE OF CHARGE to any and all CMC! students.
Contact the Office of Learning Services, located in Building D, Room 159, 
at 268-6878 for more information or an appointment.
Come worship with those who live 
with God^siheir Shepherd.
Church of mef scnsion
Where students and the Gospel of Jesus find their home 
At the comer of Neville and Ellsworth
Sunday Services at 11:00 a.m.
Friday college fellowship group 7:30 p.m.
Church Office 621-4361 
E-mail bv22@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Se?t Weeii entertains
'ddfivn to Bedroom play
break
Ztset^i)
<iuipmenl
MSS
/32pPssS]
^citation graH,
calculus &[ E
Se?(ua[ diversity e^pbredieves stress
,An^rsts'
Tartan Recruitment Meeting 
Wednesday, February 1,7 pm 
Doherty Hall 1112
FREE PIZZA
The Tartan has been the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
since 1906. If you would like to become a part of this tradition, join us 
at our recruitment meeting:
We offer positions for writers, editors, photographers, artists, proofreaders, 
accountants, advertising representatives, and layout designers.
Call the Tartan Office at 268-2111 or stop by the Student Center room 104 for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 89, Issue 13Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190623 January 1995
Paul Tabachneck/ Tartan Diversions Editor 
Francine Gemperle/ Tartan Acting Art Co-Editor
Post-Apocolyptic flicks create worst case scenarios
FILE 13
By Carey Clevenger
Hello, once again. I hope that 
everyone had an enjoyable va
cation. But, like the saying goes, 
All good things must come to 
an end, and that includes win
ter break. And, as we will see 
this week, the planet Earth is 
no exception.
There are maiiy ways that a 
planet such as ours could suffer 
an untimely demise. For ex
ample, it could be the victim of 
devastating atomic wars. Or, 
another wandering planet could 
just smack into it, like in When 
Worlds Collide. Or, a good old 
Biblical Armageddon could just 
wipe it out of existence. But, 
whatever the case: nothing lasts 
forever.
Scientists have predictedthat 
the Earth will be swallowed by 
our own benevolent sun in sev
eral million years. Personally,
I think thats a little dull: for 
one thing, I wont be here to see 
rt. And second, its just not as 
exciting as the above possibili
ties.
When MTV actually showed a 
variety of music that you actually 
cared a little bit for? When you 
could get a McDLT at 
McDonalds? When you could turn 
on the television at 3:00 am and 
not see a single infomercial? 
When we were all terrified of 
nuclear war? Ahhhh, nothing like 
? the good old days!
Fortunately, the past lives on! 
Someone realized that you could
genre. Allow me to cite a few 
examples:
1. If youve ever wondered what 
the world would be like if devas
tated by nuclear war, and every
one drove around in souped-up 
vehicles, check out the Mad Max 
trilogy. The advantage of these 
films is that theyre cleverly writ
ten, and actully fun to watch. 
Besides, they helped launch the 
career of 
Mel Gibson 
as Max, 
post-apoca
lyptic ren
egade and 
heartthrob.
2. If 
youve ever 
wondered 
what the 
world would 
be like if 
devastated 
by nuclear 
war, and 
everyone drove 
around in 
souped-up 
vehicles, 
check outHeter sorei
Heres Demi Moore. She was in an apocoiyptic 
Armageddon-type film called the Seventh Sign. Obviously, 
shes always won against the odds... Otherwise, shed be
Moore no more! She might then ride around in a soupedup vehicle, though, so thats okay.
Warriors of 
the Waste
land. The 
advantage
make all sorts of spiffy postapocolyptic films, and they did! 
Nuclear War Boy, did they ever!
There really is something for 
Remember the good old days? everyone in the post-nuclear film
of this film 
is that the 
special effects are laughably bad, 
and that theres lots of witty dia
logue (The Lord did it!, They 
believe in something 
called...God.). Besides, it helped
launch the career of Fred 
Williamson as Nadir, archer and 
possible Soul Train cast mem
ber.
3. If youve ever wondered what 
the world would be like if devas
tated by nuclear war, and every
one drove around in souped-up 
vehicles, check out Damnation 
Alley. The advantage of this film 
is that theres a cool scene with 
giant cockroaches, and a really 
cool tank.
Besides, it helped launch the 
careers of Jan-Michael Vincent 
and George Peppard, who went 
on to fly Airwolf and lead the 
A-Team, respectively.
4. Ifyouveever wondered what 
the world would be like if devas
tated by nuclear war, and every
one drove around in souped-up 
vehicles, check out Extermina
tors of the Year 3000.
The advantage of this film is 
that theres a cyborg kid that gets 
his arms ripped off, and then later 
throws a rock into a bad guys 
skull. Besides, Im sure someone 
in this film went on to be in an
other one, but I am not sure who 
it would have been.
5. If youve ever wondered what 
the world would be like if devas
tated by nuclear war, and every
one drove around in souped-up 
vehicles, check out Endgame ... 
or Future Kill ... or 2020 Texas 
Gladiators ... or practically any 
other science fiction film made in 
the mid 1980s. Besides, Im sure 
you can rent these off of the bar
gain rack, and they probably only 
last an hour and a half.
Armageddon: Underrated?
Unfortunately, there just arent 
very many films that deal with 
just plain eerie ways to destroy 
the Earth. There are, however, a 
few worthy of mention.
For example, in The Seventh
Sands bite out a guys tongue and 
spit it into a frying pan! Watch 
him drink boiling human fat! 
Watch him attack Simon Belmont 
rip-off Richard E. Grant! Watch 
him tangle with Bryce Lynch!
You can watch him do all 
sorts of things!
Closing out this category 
is one of the strangest films 
I have ever seen, The Rap
ture.
This movie takes more 
dips and turns than most 
roller coasters, and leaves 
you feeling almost as un
easy at the end. I wont 
spoil any of the surprises, 
but X-Files fans will be 
happy to see David 
Duchovny in equally weird 
plot twists.
In Lethal Weapon, Mel Gibson played a 
cute but psychotic renegade cop, but 
that was an extention of his work in the 
Mad Max series, where he played a cute 
but psychotic renegade. In a souped-up 
vehicle, of course.
Sign, its up to Demi Moore to 
stop her husband Bruce Willis 
from making Striking Distance . 
Whoops! Sorry about that ... al
though Im regretful that that 
was not her actual goal.
Actually, it is up to her to stop 
the omens that lead to the end of 
the world as we know it. I feel fine 
in recommending this film for all 
apocalyptic film buffs, as well as 
fans of the death penalty.
Two more fine examples are 
the Warlock films. Watch Julian
What does this button 
do?
Chances are, your local 
video store is just brim
ming with apocalyptic 
flicks of every design. A 
quick stroll over to the sci
ence fiction or horror sec
tion will fullfill your fatalistic 
needs for hours of viewing plea
sure.
Everyone says that disco is 
making a come back; maybe we 
will be able to say the same for 
the post-apocaplytic film genre 
in a few years.
We can only hope.
Carey Clevenger is a junior cre
ative writing major. He enjoys 
driving around in souped-up ve
hicles in his spare time.
Learning crams too muchPassage provides honesty
One of the earliest scenes of the film depicts a 
white woman grabbing her purse tightly while 
riding in an elevator with a black man. If Higher 
Learning had stuck to such subtleties in order to 
discuss real racism on college campuses, it could 
have made a point. Instead, a troop of neo-Nazis 
runs around campus beating up any minority in its 
path, in order to inform the audience that racism 
exists. Realistic? Maybe. Common? No.
By the end of the film I found myself wanting to 
thank Ice Cube for lending 
at least a touch of quality 
acting. His performance 
shone brilliantly among a 
relatively mediocre cast.
Michael Rapaports per
formance was one of in
trigue, as his presence on 
the screen made me want 
to leave the theater. I cant 
figure out if he was that 
good or that bad since his 
character was supposed to 
be kind of annoying any
way.
To Singletons credit, a 
few scenes were done with 
quite a bit of skill and origi
nality. While much of the 
movie was reminiscent of 
an after-school special, the films date rape scene is 
incredibly bold.
Singleton manages to add enough confusion to 
the dialogue that the situation actually seems real 
 real being the key word because the rest of the 
movie is anything but.
My main disappointment was with the fact that 
I went into the theater looking for an honest 
portrayal of racism on college campus and got a 
cartoon spewing out political paraphernalia. In 
Higher Learning, Singleton does not offer any
thing interesting for the audience to mull over on 
the ride home; he only reinforces what already got 
them into the theater in the first place.
And I really wanted to like this 
film.
Ice Cube (Third from left) makes Higher Learning at 
least somewhat bearable, the same way he did for 
Boyz N TheHood.
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
' I walked into John Singletons Higher Learning 
wanting to dig the flick big time. While I missed 
Poetic Justice, I caught Boyz N the Hood, and was 
truly impressed. Previews and pre-release hooplah made Higher Learning seem like Singleton was 
going to make an original statement about race 
relations on college campuses as well as about 
college life in gen
eral.
Too bad he blew
it.
Higher Learning 
has some impres
sive goals and importantmessages to 
share, but fails mis
erably by trying to 
do too much. Direc
tor/writer John 
Singleton attempts 
to cover date rape, 
roommates, race re
lations, homosexu
ality, lesbianism, 
neo-Nazis, college 
life, and e-mail in 
one big swoop.
The movie manages to be a huge politically 
correct yawn. Because so many issues come up, 
none of them receive the time they need to be 
discussed in depth. At the movies end, audiences 
can leave the theater knowing that Singleton be
lieves rape and racism are wrong. However, the 
people who go to see Higher Learning will probably 
already know this. I was looking for something a 
bit more thought-provoking.
I can forgive Singletons absurd Hollywood im
age of college life in which students seem to have 
just one class, find the love of their lives in the first 
week of classes, and name their mentor after one 
yisitto office hours, because a two-hour flick has its 
limitations.
What doesnt fly is how extreme Singleton insists 
on taking the issue to make his
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
Movie: Safe Passage 
Starring: Susan Sarandon, 
Sam Shepard, Robert Sean 
Leonard.
off, this film stars Susan 
Sarandon, one of my all-time fa
vorites, as a tough-loving mother, 
Mag Singer. Her screen presence 
has always dazzled me, and I am 
consistently moved by the effort 
she puts in her roles. This is no
movie had ended. He may not 
be going for the same gallons of 
saltwater in his role as Alfred, 
the anal-retentive first-born, 
but the light in his eyes is as 
moving as anyone elses, per
haps moreso with him than with 
anyone else in this picture, save 
Sarandon.
The plot is centered around 
the Singer family, which con
sists of seven sons, a mother 
(Sarandon), and an estranged 
father (Shepard), One of the 
sons, Percival, is stationed in 
the Middle East , and works 
around a building that has been 
bombed and destroyed. One call 
from Mom and the whole fam
ily comes running home, add
ing a wonderfully varied cast of 
characters to the scene. Theres 
a doctor (well, a scientist), a 
lawyer, a couple of collegebound twins, an athlete, and 
the 14-year-old mamas-rebel 
son, Simon.
The characters are extremely 
well-formed; one can see the 
upbringingin every one of them. 
The athlete, Gideon (played by 
Jason London), never breaks 
his posture, showing a self-disPlease see PASSAGE, Lll
In my opinion, the movie in
dustry has been in a steady 
downfall since its invention. Re
cently, it seems that the term 
movie theater has become an 
oxymoron, since the word the
ater implies that actual acting 
is involved. With Safe Passage, 
director Robert Allan Ack
erman has brought that aspect 
back.
movie star  Jim Carrey is a 
movie star. This is an actor.
Also, it marks the re-arrival of 
Robert Sean Leonard, whose por
trayal as the hopeful actor Neil in 
Dead Poets Society had millions 
(including myself) reaching for 
their tissues... for at least an 
hour after the
Lorey Sebastian
Susan Sarandon and Sam Shepard play an estranged husband and 
wife in Safe Passage, a family film from New Line Cinemas.

---------------------------------------------------

the phone, buy 
an order of 3.99!
Call Us: 681-1700 315 N. Craig Street
11 am-2 am Sun-Thurs; 11 am-3 am Fri-Sat
Gg1#3ApN3O(pp 1gg(38(WF Now accepting VISA and MASTERCARD
Right now pick up 
any pizza, and get 
NEW ^.for $
2 *1O4( 8H) 
8)33/R4 3/BB1p 
6)O Y14.99
Add a two liter of Coke or 
Diet Coke for $1.88
Expires soon!
#)O( H/R4p
30 Wings $11.97 
50 Wings $15.99 
100 Wings $30.99
3 Great Sauces:
barbeque, cayenne hot,
Expires soon! tabasco red hot
6O(( #(W/A# . 
8)33/R4 3/BB1
When you purchase a 
large 2 or more topping 
thin crust or deep dish 
pizza at regular price
Expires soon!
The Mellon College of Science 
Deans Student Advisory Council Invites YOU To...
Get it off your chest!
Hard as life is at Carnegie Mellon, weve all had bad experiences that made 
things even tougher. While waiting in those long lines, youve probably 
thought of some great ways to cut red tape and eliminate the hassles.
Heres your chance to give a choice earful to the people in charge. In a 
series of three forums, youll go straight to the top with your suggestions, 
complaints and feedback. All students are welcome!
Wednesdays, 5 pm, Bach Auditorium in Posner Hall
January 25: Registrar, Cashier, and Financial Aid
THIS WEEKEver gotten the runaround during registration? Come to 
this forum to talk to the heads of these three departments and their boss!
February 1: The Career Center
What is Carnegie Mellon doing for your future? Hear it directly from the 
Career Centers administration!
February 8: Computing Services
How often do you get on a computer right when you need one? Make 
your thoughts known to the User Services director!
Suggestions? Questions? Send e-mail to km3u@andrew.cmu.edu.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995L7Mirror reflects on riots
3y JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Staffwriter
Like a well-crafted es
say on race relations,
Anna Deavere Smiths 
Fires in the Mirror is a 
close and artistic look at 
the Crown Heights riots 
of 1991. Dealing with 
identity and misunder
standings, Smith begins 
this originally one-woman 
show with an examina
tion of the ideas of indi
viduality and mirrors, 
moves on to the affects of 
appearance, and finally 
discusses the problems of 
race as related to Jewish 
and African-American in
teractions. Seullen Fitzimmons
StarrmgChrystal Bates Jenn-fer Mendenha jsone of the twoand Jennifer Mendenhall, women that bring Anna Deavere Smith,s 
Fires m le irror is a p;res n tfle ^rror tQ |ife> sending a powerful message to the audience.worthy production of City 
Theatres 1994-95 season.
Full of passion and fury, the two 
women jump from person to per
son in a series of monologues 
taken from interviews conducted 
by Smith. From Bates portrayal 
ofJNew York Human Kights Comto the unusual juxtapositions that 
occur on stage. Also, the begin
ning definitions of the various 
ideas presented in the play ask 
the audience to rethink their opin
ions and concerns about race,
missioner Robert Sherman to her identity, and language, 
transformation into Reverend A1 If anything negative can be said 
Sharpton, the jumps can often be about Fires in the Mirrorx it is 
confusing but are for the most that it is not a fun night on the 
part enjoyable. town, but more of a documenThe set is a multi-media systary on the Crown Heights riots, 
tem with television cameras that With little or no background, howrecreate the incidents and play ever, the play is hard to follow 
over the actors as they go through until the final, more poignant 
their paces. Recalling that most scenes appear, 
of our news and knowledge comes From the use of a slide projecfrom mass media, directors Marc tor to captions with the characMasterson and Sara Chazen (who ters names and professions to 
was involved in CMXJsMachinal) the use of footage from the New 
use language and scenery to add York riots and Crown Heights
b.elsir cJshohn okroircKkh
residents, the play seems as if it 
would be better on PBS and not 
on stage. However, it is an in
teresting use of the dramatic 
medium, and cannot be panned 
on that account.
Bates and Mendenhall por
trayed their various characters 
with amazing fluidity. The use 
of accents and dialects added to 
the believability and strength 
of the actors. Memorable mo
ments occur when the white 
Mendenhall and the black 
Bates become Anonymous 
Young Man #1, a JamaicanAmerican Crown Heights resi
dent.
Other poignant moments oc
cur when Mendenhall becomes 
Norman Rosenbaum, the 
brother of a Hassidic Jew killed 
in the riots, and Bates becomes 
Carmel Cato, the father of the 
boy whose death under the 
wheels of a Rabbis van sparked 
the violence that slowly esca
lated in the summer of 1991.
Do not see Fires in the Mirror 
for a good time. See it for its 
comments on the nation and the 
problems of racism. The work 
makes you consider the various 
roles we play in life, and if this 
interests you, Fires in the Mirror 
is a fine production.
If, however, you wish to escape 
from reality for a moment, this is 
not the play to see.
Fires in the Mirror runs until 
Sunday, February 5, and shows 
Tuesday - Fridays at 8pm and 
Saturdays at 5:30 and 9:00. Mati
nees are on Sunday at 2pm and 
half-price tickets are available fif
teen minutes before performances. 
Call 431-CITY for more info.
of Love For Yous. Aimeee Defoes bassoon adds 
salt to the watery flow of this band, which particu
larly complements lead guitarist George Kuhls 
infectious solo in Squishyman, and her back
ground vocals are the cherry that tops the sundae 
that is Oprazon (Dont you ever catch me on 
Oprah/Dont you ever catch me on Oprah/If you 
ever catch me on Oprah, put a bullet in my brain.) 
Drummer Roger Hsiao is just too damn good. Hes 
so good, that at times, you dont even realize that
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
Artist: Blogurt ..........
Album': We Like To Eat
Suggested Tracks: Squishyman,@#$!* Is A Pup
pet, WHT, Love For Yous
The art of satirical music is a fine craft; if the 
sword of humor is not wielded properly, the humor
ous aspect can be lost in the flashiness of the .this group has a drummer, because most drum
mers either overachieve 
or underachieve, 
instead of just 
earnestly back
ing the band.
You cant get 
this sound 
out of a ma
chine, nor will 
any session 
musician 
come close.
H a v i n 
seen this 
band in its 
earlier incar
nation, Ive 
got to say that 
I really like 
the way this
band interacts a lotmore than the way the old one 
did. In *$!?%s A Puppet (actually named after a 
cute little blue Muppet with a distance fixation), 
the interaction between the band members is 
unspeakably good, as the background vocals share 
the lyrics with MacArchick, whereas originally, I
Giant Sucking Sound Productions 
Every aspect of this album is 
unique, including the CD itself, 
which contains an amusing 
fictional dictionary excerpt.Giant Sucking Sound Productions '
The group (L to R): Dave Chief Rubin (bass),
Aimeee Defoe (bassoon), Roger Hsaio (drums),
George Kuhl (lead guitar), and frontman Dave 
MacArchick.
singer. A prime example of the downfall of this 
genre lies in the music videos done by Weezer, 
whose Look Ma, Im funny-type antics serve to do dont remember the interaction being there. The
nothing but annoy me. Blogurt, a Pittsburgh quin
tet, has managed, however, to shatter that obstacle 
with much fanfare. Led by vocalist and co
songwriter Dave MacArchick, these five collegiatetypes crank out an honest 
rock-funk jam, whilst 
MacArchick weaves an in
tricate web of lyrical wit. In 
Love For Yous, he belts out 
My love for you is coated 
Billy Grahams/Chocolate 
Moses, Marshmallow Abraham/Smore. Andno one will 
ever forget the touching ode 
to William Howard Taft in 
WHT (He was the 27th 
president/He was the 27th 
president/He was the 27th 
President/He was number 
27.) But although I could 
spend years complementing 
MacArchicks twisted ran
kings (which are too wellthought-out for one to even 
write the originality off as drug-inspired insanity), 
there are four other members that deserve the 
spotlight. Dave Chief Rubin, co-writer and bassist, 
lays down a diverse range of basslines, from the
Giant Sucking Sound Producutions 
We Like To Eat is Blogurts first release, and 
hopefully not their last.
group has five different distinct personalities, 
which just shine out on every track while not 
sticking out of the musical sphere that they cre
ate. Its amazing the way Blogurts sound has 
evolved.
Aside from their sound, 
the packaging is great. One 
look at their pictures and I 
feel like Ive known them for 
years. The disc has a large 
Blogurt logo (a chemical bin 
with BLOGURT stenciled 
diagonally across it), as well 
as a Sniglet-esque definition 
of the word blogurt and a 
picture and description of 
their manager, describing 
him in terms of a medical 
affliction marked by inflam
mation of the ego. In any 
case, the album is only at
tainable at gigs right now, 
but its worth going. Their 
show is equally tight, and 
even when I saw them in a tiny theater space at 
Friday Nite Improvs, I didnt go deaf. Really good 
balance, and you dont feel like theres a clique or 
in-crowd involved in the deal.
Artist interviewed
COMIC BOOK CHRONICLES
By Jason Andracki
Welcome back to Comic Book Chronicles! Hope 
everyone had a great break and caught up on 
your comic-book-reading. Well, Im really 
swamped with things to 
cover in this column so Im 
going to jump right in.
Way back in November, I 
had the p leasure of attend
ing the Mid-Ohio Conven
tion in Columbus. I spent 
almost all of my day there 
wandering around the 
guest room collecting auto
graphs. Also, I set up a few 
interviews, the first of 
which I will recap here.
Roger Stem, one of the 
most prolific writers who 
has left his mark on just 
about every Marvel and DC 
title will now gain infamy 
for one series of stories he 
helped write in the fall of 
1992. Yes, Roger Stern 
helped to kill Superman 
(Dan Jurgens killed him. I 
wrote the obituary?). In late spring Stem will 
return to Superrhan, following his departure 
after Action Comics #700, with anew quarterly. 
This book. Man of Tomorrow, will give readers a 
Superman comic every week all year round, 
when combined with the other titles. Tom 
Grummet is scheduled to do the pencils on this 
book, which will probably be a 64-pager.
Stern began his comics career with Marvel in 
the mid-1970s as a copy editor. He was a proof
reader on the reprint books, doing touch ups and 
fixing old typos. By 1976 Stern was promoted to 
regular writer for Marvel Presents and has since 
amassed an impressive body of work that not 
only includes his run on Action Comics, but also 
the Avengers, Captain America, and Tragedy
_ DC Comics 
Stems work extends into Action 
Comics. Above is a frame from 
his Tomb of Superman story.
and Torment, starring Doctor Strange and Doc
tor Doom, the only graphic novel truly worthy of 
being packaged in hard cover with a high price, 
graced with beautiful artwork by Mike Mignola 
complimenting Stems haunting storytelling.
Although 70 percent (of his writing instruc
tion) came from Archie Goodwin in six weeks, 
Stem lists his influences as Everything Ive ever 
read, from O. Henry to Stan Lee. Even stuff ! 
havent liked has an influence, Stem began 
reading comics thanks to his grandfather and 
selected books like Superman, Batman, and the 
Justice League.
Stem believes the current trend of blood and 
guts are just a passingphase since, 
Everyone wants to be first to be 
second. This was the case when 
everyone jumped on the Death of. 
bandwagon following Supermans 
death.
Although extreme violence isnt 
his style as far as the Comics Code 
goes, I wish it wasnt there. Its 
never consistent. Sorta like an ap
pendix, you dont need it but its 
there.
An interesting note concerning 
the hottest comic book story of this 
decade: Stem believes that with 
the Death of Superman,The fine 
details could have been stronger. 
There were little errors people 
didnt notice. (Lois Lane and Jimmy 
Olsens) helicopter pilots name and 
race changed.
Stern got the chance to rectify 
these slips when Bantam Publish
ing and DC decided to put out the novel The 
Death and Life ofSupermany a job for which Mike 
Carlin (editor of the Superman books) recom
mended him.
In addition to the Man of Tomorrow, Stem is 
also developing many new characters himself, 
half a dozen of which he is currently marketing. 
Some are super heroes, some have super hero 
overtones, and some are totally unique.
Jason Andracki, a sophomore Professional Writ
ing major, is just beginning to get swamped with 
class work, but is already overcome with things to 
cover for his column. There will be reviews of a 
couple of sample books plus interviews with Walter 
Simonsen (Star Slammers) and Jeff Smith (Bone).
accent-notes in In A Drum, to the slapback style If you want good satirical music, go for Blogurt.
Dog Eat Dog just bites
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Artist: Dog Eat Dog
Album: All Boro Kings
Well, by the song titles on this 
album, one may get the impres
sion that this very well could be 
the soundtrack to the new Jerky 
Boyz: The Movie. Then one 
would most likely look at the 
liner notes to see what kind of 
music that one is about to hear. 
One would then catch that there 
is a strong emphasis on saxo
phone usage throught the al
bum, and based on the other 
instruments listed, would expect 
some jazz stylings. Well, so far 
we are, as John McLaughlin
voice mix sounding like early 
Beastie Boys, both in rhythm and 
rhyme. Saxophone on these two 
tracks are thrown in comically, 
not unlike how the British alter
native group Maddness 
used theirs. Track three,
No Fronts, plays like the 
groups anthem, a song 
genre utilized by Black 47 
and Deee-Lite, as well as 
many others. It states 
their agenda quite plainly, 
clearly enough that youre 
almost willing not to lis
ten to any more of what 
they have to say.
Now we enter the realm 
of the fourth tune, Pull 
My Finger, not unlike a 
phrase a not so favorite 
uncle or grandfa
ther may have said 
to you when you 
were young. The 
pacing of song beBy this time in the album they I 
realized they were paying a bass I 
player to be in the studio with, 
them and as a gift gave him the \ 
opening solo in In The Dog-!
Danny Clinch
The picture says it all; the group is made I 
up of a bunch of different guys, and a! 
whole bunch of different styles.! 
gins like many of Unfortunately, the styles clash instead of < 
the Red Hot Chili blending, resulting in musical chaos. ! 
Peppers early proTodd James
Dog Eat Dogs All Boro Kings mixes rap, 
Rollins, and Metallica to create a fusion 
that bites despite the bark. Better luck 
next time, boys.
would put it, WRONG.
The first song on the album,
If These Are Good Times, gives 
us a teaser of our assumptions, 
but suddenly it switches to a 
cross between a heavy Metallica 
sound with a Rollins Band men
tality. Nice choral effect, great virtues of stripping in, believe it 
voices for this genre of music, or not, a song called the Strip 
just destroyed due to the quality Song. Very bad pacing with the
ductions and slows down 
periodically to announce 
a totally out of place rap, 
which could have sounded 
better on a better record
ing. Each of the cuts so far 
have very violent topics, 
ranging from murder to 
rape, so take your pick, 
post-modern America! 
Whos The King is a hard 
song, really hard. Subjects 
throughout this song 
range from Elvis to New 
Kids On The Block (see 
Funnel King) to a reggae 
rap about Rodney King ... 
cute. Oh yippie, I get to 
flip sides ... so far Im not im
pressed, and I doubt many other 
would be by this time in the al
bum either.
Side two begins, once again with 
a very Metallica-esque guitar, and 
breaks into rap, preaching all the
of the recording (we received a 
cassette tape). The second cut^ 
Think, starts with a hollow 
sounding drum kit, with the
rhythm section, sounds like the 
drummer was constantly asking, 
6/8 time, now, uh, no, now? 
What?
house. At the end of the track, 11 
was thinking, hmmm, thats 1 
where this album is so far...Great,! 
a song about beating up on nerdy i 
kids ... that should go over well | 
here at CMU<grin>... Carefully I 
reading over the lyrics enclosed! 
in the cassette, in comparasionto ! 
what I heard in the music (the! 
term music is used sparingly! 
here), I found that there is alot of! 
material encased in their raps in! 
the cuts that never showed up,j 
and some stuff that showed up i 
was never mentioned ... hmmm.! 
During the course of Funnel! 
King they compare their rising! 
fame to that of N.K.O.T.B. (New \ 
Kids On The Block).Gee, what a! 
comparison. Im glad they didnt | 
shoot as high as to compare themj 
selves to the Beatles.
The last song, What Comes! 
Around, should take a lesson! 
from the phrase that usually! 
preceeds it (what goes around...) \ 
and this album has definitely gone! 
around, but as far as this re-1 
viewer is concerned, what came J 
around was garbage. We were! 
lucky we didnt have to pay for! 
this promo. You shouldnt, either..!

---------------------------------------------------

#)R/8)O g)#31RD
INFORMATION ENGINEERING
- Our idea of a Software Development Environment:
Object-Oriented 
Jeans and T-shirts 
Graphical User Interfaces
Excellent Salaries
Cappucino Maker 
Mind Bending Business Models 
Fun and Games
.LO ,5 Ta rtnRT5tiOte
The people at Oracle are fast moving, fiercely competitive and smart. Oh, youll hear someone say were proud... and maybe we are. Were also technology innovators, 
business pioneers and industry-shaking deal makers. Our RDBMS software, suite of tools and services are undisputed world leaders. Leaders. Of course, the fun is 
keeping it that way.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer  Technical Analyst  Consultant  Product Manager 
Well be on campus February 15 & 16. E-mail your resume TODAY!
Information Engineering is the software development division of Monitor Company, a world-wide man
agement consulting firm. We are currently searching for top-notch programmers and decision support 
consultants to join our rapidly growing group. 
See our binder at the CMU Career Center to find out more about this exciting opportunity. We will be 
accepting resumes from interested CMU students until February 1,1995.
Theirs.Ours.
ORACLG
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: Islynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995L9
Voyager will go boldly where no Trek has gone before
By DAVBD KORAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Show: StarTrek: Voyager 
Network: UNP (WPTT, locally)
Together we waited, as time 
ticked by on our digital watches 
until 7:59 pm approached. The 
screen fizzled into existence, and 
so did the flagship program of the 
newly formed United Paramount 
Network (UPN): its new series, 
Star Trek: Voyager. My compan
ions and I knew that this show 
would make or break this net
work from the very start. UPN 
was betting on Voyager for its 
success.
Very watchful eyes scanned the 
scenes presented to us, looking 
for improvements over Voyager's 
predecessors. The show opened 
with a Star Wars-esque chase 
scene between the Cardassians 
and the Maquis, immediately 
raising the excitement level in 
the room.
With all the pre-series media 
hype, it was easy to pick out the 
new stars. Almost too easy. The 
plot was laid out before us, quite 
plainly, many in the room sug
gesting that well have a repeat of other Star Trek premiere shows. The story itself was quite fancidefending the human condition To our surprise, this was not the ful, written around the premise 
plots that have plagued many case. of being far from home in a dis
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Now boarding Starship Wean... In honor of the premiere of StarTrek: Voyager, some anonymous Trekkies 
decorated the elevators of Wean Hall with their own personal Trek-touch. And they say Carnegie Mellon 
students are geeks.
tant part of the galaxy, with no 
chance of making it home with
out some kind of miracle. The 
final episode of this series almost 
writes itself with the present 
storyline.
On the other hand, many of the 
original generation Star Trek fans 
see this as a return to the roots of 
the series. Discovering new races, 
planets, civilizations, and other 
anomalies is what allowed Star 
Trek to gain its original popular
ity and maintain it to the present 
day.
Purists see this as a good sign, 
although many ofthe discussions 
on the grafitti.Voyager bboard 
here at CMU focused on the pos
sible rehashing of sublime 
storylines and plots of the past.
The most heavily discussed 
item among the press as well as 
fans is the placement of a woman 
in the role of a Starfleet Captain. 
Capt. Janeway, played by Kate 
Mulgrew (Mrs. Columbo) takes a 
big step along Gene Roddenberrys dream of a future with
out lines drawn along sex and 
race, much the same way Avery 
Brooks character of Capt. Ben
jamin Sisko did in Deep Space
Nines premiere.
The special effects used so far  
in the series have a heavy relii 
ance on computer animation, to 
the point of looking unrealistic. |
There seems to be a smaller I 
reliance on models, which has I 
been prevalent in previous ST x 
series, and is waning towards a . 
Babylon 5 kind of feel, with com! 
pletely rendered objects and other i 
scenes.
Music in this series was writ! 
ten by Jay Chattaway, famous I 
for his score for the PBS series ! 
Space Age. The new theme sounds ! 
more like Deep Space Nines in I 
the way its arranged, departing 1 
from the original theme written ! 
by Alexander Courage and re\ 
arranged by Jerry Goldsmith for 1 
the first movie.
Taking into account all the j 
changes that Voyager has made 
over previous Star Trek series, 
UPN may have a winner on it's 
hands.
Given a little work and revi
sion, this series will most likely 
have longevity that will bypass 
all of its predecessors, look for
ward to it lasting well past the 
year 2000.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995New art exhibit inspires
By NATALIE WOCHELE
Tartan Diversions Assistant Editor
form of arcs, is present in the Radiant Arc* 
exhibit. It is beautiful! The coffee conveyer bell is 
supported by luminous strings against a deep 
Between January 16 and February 4, Hewlett blue tapered background, and as the lighting 
visitors can encounter artist James Lone/s sculpreflects on the piece two arcs are formed on the 
turai display and excersize in geometrical expreswooden floor. The other displays in the front
sion, Radiant Arc. 
Radiant Arc is 
not the only cre
ation in Loneys ex
hibition, but it is the 
one that has ex
plored and applied 
the different prin
ciples of alchemical 
science, physics,
It is within the circles that 
Loney has kept his angular 
compositions, symmetry, and 
compression.
gallery reflect the 
many studies of Loney 
before he started the 
Arc. It is so interest
ing the concept he used 
for understanding the 
celestial meaning be
hind the work; apply
ing many metallic pigments and taking
and astronomy. Much of Loneys work still carries many pictures of tree reflections. The curious 
aesthetic materials such as glass, wires, and rubthing to note is that in every picture and drop of 
ber suspended in cords, even though much of his metallic pigment the circle or arc is present, 
exhibition concentrates on the relationship beLoneys work carries in itself an essence of tentween site and sculpture. sion, stress, and balance. It is within the many
The objective of this exhibit is to concentrate on circles that Loney has kept his angular composithe recurrence of the circle in Loneys work; The tions, symmetry, and compression. His preoccucircle, in every imaginable permutation, is the one pation with these are what has been best pre
symbol that is repeatedly applied to making sense sented in the Arc. As James Loney said, Radiofthe universe. The artist says that he has tried ant Arc is both realization and celebration of this 
to look for recurrences of the circle in all of his discovery.Whowouldhavethoughtthatacircle 
works. The truth is that the circle, even if in the had so much meaning?Red wraps up film trilogy
By WLADIMIR LAVEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Film monuments have always been a rare phe
nomenon. Although filmmakers tend to nurture 
their own ambitions (and then brag about them), 
rarely do their works make for real landmarks. 
Kieslowskis Three Colors trilogy is one of these 
rare monuments, a work that even though clearly 
representing its directors style, stands on its own 
as a legacy from and for modem times.
The trilogy (consisting of the films Blue, White 
and Red) is supposedly fashioned after the French 
flag and the ideals of the French revolution (lib
erty, equality and fraternity respectively). But 
after seeing the films one realizes that although 
Kieslowskis has examined in some way these 
ideals, his treatment is rather obscure. The films 
are not about nor celebrate these themes and 
actually the message seems to be that the world 
doesnt really agree with them. These ideals are 
really a pretext for Kieslowski to explore once more 
the visual possibilities that he is able to imagine at 
the same time present his meditations on love and 
transcendence.
The first story in the trilogy is about a woman 
that has her life swept from under her feet. Julie 
(Juliette Binoche) loses her husband and daughter 
in a car accident. She decides to start a new life 
from scratch but her past keeps pulling her back 
while she discovers that her past life wasnt en
tirely what she thought it was. Julie is perhaps the 
strongest character in the trilogy but in the end is 
not clear whether she really attained the freedom 
she looked for.
Referred to as the scherzo of the trilogy, White, 
ironically enough, makes for a dark comedy. Karol 
Karol, a polish hairdresser, is abandoned by new 
wife Dominique (Julie Delphi) because the mar
riage is never consummated. Humiliated, he 
smuggles himself back to Poland where he man
ages to become a wealthy businessman in a plan to 
get Dominique back (or get back at her?). White 
represented an opportunity for Kieslowski to ex
amine how the new world order really affected 
eastern Europe through what at times feels like 
warped slapstick.
With Red, Kieslowski resorted to a less bom
bastic and more nostalgic atmosphere. Valen
tine (Iran Jacobi) is an estranged lover in Swit
zerland who runs into a bitter god (actually a 
retired judge) who has forgotten how to love. 
This is the subtlest film in the trilogy and per
haps the most beautiful. As the cycle closes we 
realize how the three different stories are really 
one, the story of love in the modem era.
What makes this trilogy more of a legacy is 
that it is Kieslowskis final opus (he announced 
his retirement after doing Red). He has always 
been a sort of guerrilla filmmaker in the way he 
managed to make his films with help from differ
ent countries. He is the true independent film
maker and he is now probably their patron saint.
Uninterestingly enough, Red could not be 
nominated for the Oscar because they couldnt 
figure out whether it was a French or Polish or 
Swiss film. This complies, of course, to the applepie view that anything that cant be labeled 
better be ignored.
Kieslowskis detractors often criticize his am
biguous style of narrative and his sometimes 
extravagant eye. But this ambiguity in his 
films only obeys to a way of making what Wenders 
has called emotion pictures. Kieslowskiis much 
more an artist than a storyteller in the way he 
can move us with mere images that many times 
border in a deceptive simplicity.
This is not to say that his stories are empty, 
quite the contrary. Each time you watch the 
trilogy you find new aspects of the stories, new 
stories glimpsing at you through the images or 
through the music. Music plays an important 
part in the trilogy, especially the works of Van 
der Budenmayer (actually a fictional composer 
created way back in The Double Life ofVeronique). 
However it is precisely this way of telling a 
story what makes it so real and moving. The 
contradictions and the complexity that appears 
as simplicity define life itself, and it also defines 
these films.
Blue and White are now on video. Red is now 
playing at the Beehive (Call 687-WHAT for show 
times).
Szechuan Gourmet provides unique food
ANCIENT CHINESE 
SECRETS
by Ido Ben-Shachar and 
Aaron Weisberg
Youre sitting around, and sud
denly you develop an intense crav
ing for Chinese food. Unfortu
nately, you know of only two Pitts
burgh restaurants that can ac
commodate: Silly Pagoda and 
Yummy Wok. (These names were 
grossly misspelled to protect the 
innocent.) You have a dilemma. 
This fate befalls a CMU student 
all too often. Surely, there must 
be a Chinese restaurant within a 
five mile radius worth your 
money!
Enter Aaron Weisberg and Ido 
Ben-Shachar, eaters of Chinese 
food. We dont know whats in it, 
we dont know how to make it, 
and we dont even speak Chinese 
very well. We just eat Chinese 
food. We are told by many that 
the food that we eat is not even 
authentic Chinese food, but 
rather an Americanized 
bastardization. Still, we are some
how drawn to it, and have dedi
cated our college years to finding 
the best Chinese restaurants near 
Campus.
In this column, we plan on in
troducing a new Chinese restau
rant each week. We will be look
ing specifically for high food qual
ity, pleasant atmosphere, and 
reasonable prices. At the end of 
the semester, we will award the
coveted Golden Tso award to 
the restaurant demonstrating the 
highest skill in the preparation of 
General Tsos chicken.
This week, we ventured into 
the depths of Shadyside and dis
covered Szechuan Gourmet (709 
Bellefonte St., 683-1763). Al
though not as flashy as other res
taurants in the area, its one that 
we had never visited before. Ac
tually, we werent even planning 
on going in until we glanced at 
their menu and noticed that the 
first two dishes on the Chefs 
Suggestions were our two favor
ites: General Tsos Chicken and 
Orange Beef!
Going inside, we noticed that 
the decorations were rather plain, 
and it didnt look very authentic, 
not that weve ever been to China. 
However, the restaurant was kept 
clean, and we were struck by the 
colorfully decorated flatware, not 
to mention the faux flowers be
side them.
When we were seated, the wait
ress was kind enough to bring us 
some tea, and the fun began. Our 
soup, wonton of course, was 
served almost immediately, and 
was rather impressive. It seems 
that Pittsburgh Chinese restau
rants, for some unknown reason, 
make their wonton soup resemble 
either French onion soup or 
chicken-noodle. Szechuan 
Gourmets fit into the former cat
egory, and is one of the best 
wonton soups in the area, good to 
the last drop.
Being on a tight budget this 
week, we could only order two 
dishes, so we ended up getting 
General Tsos chicken and orange 
beef. We have eaten many types 
of General Tsos in the past, but
this was definitely a new experi
ence.
Believe it or not, we paid $9.95 
for a dish that tasted like Kentucky Fried Chicken with a touch 
of ginger. While the crispy bread
ing is a style that might bear 
merit in the future, for now it 
belongs in a bucket.
The orange beef, on the other 
hand, was much more enjoyable. 
Strangely enough, it also tasted a 
lot like Kentucky Fried Chicken, 
(except that it was beef).
Although this dish had more of 
a ginger flavor than the tradi
tional orange flavor suggested by 
its name, we found it to be a 
refreshing new take on an old 
favorite. This is not one of the 
best recipes for orange beef we 
have tried, but it is certainly the 
most original.
Overall, wed rate Szechuan 
Gourmet as a fine restaurant, 
one that we would recommend if 
youre looking for some variety. 
The prices are reasonable (about 
$10 for the chefs suggestions), 
especially on the lunch menu 
where almost all combination 
plates are under $5.
The food wasnt too bad, and 
the atmosphere was pleasant and 
quiet. We could almost say that 
the service was wonderful, ex
cept that the tea they brought us 
was never hot enough. The people 
there are friendly, friendly 
enough for free delivery.
We give Szechuan Gourmet 
three out of five Tsos.
Fortune of the week: A good 
way to keep healthy is to eat 
more Chinese Food.
So where are we going next 
week? Ancient Chinese Secret!
IIIETARTAN. THE'Mim id4MAN THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN HITARIAN THE TAK1M THE TARTAN THE TMIAN THEvmmjw/fmm mimm mmm mm
im/mm
THE TARTAN THE 
F TARTAN THE TARTAN
mmmmmm/mmt ime tartan the
THE TARTN THETARTOT4RTIS -! -.
TARTAN Tin; TARIM THE
classified
Madball Sets reviewer Off
ROUSING
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffiuriter
Group: Madball 
Album: Set It Off
Maybe I should write reviews 
more often. At least that way I 
would be assured of getting good 
music, or at least listenable mu
sic, someday. This weeks gar
bage is called Set It Off, by the 
group Madball. Now, if you look 
back at the so-called super
groups in any category of music, 
do you find anything even re
motely close to the connotation 
that Madball brings up?
I think that the closest I come is 
Twisted Sister, and thats not 
sayin much either. The point Im 
trying to make is that with a 
name like Madball and the trash 
that iB on the album, you aint 
goin nowhere.
Thats only my opinion of 
course. Someidiotsawfitto record 
these morons, so, who knows? 
Someone once suggested to me 
that in order to give my readers 
an insight to the music that I was 
reviewing I should compare them 
to previously established groups. 
UMMMMM.
Okay, um, unless theres a band 
out there somewhere that I dont 
know about that records in a
metal chamber that echoes like 
crazy...well, then there just aint 
no comparison.
The fact that this album sounds 
like it was recorded on a street
Roadrunner Records 
Madballs album art shows an 
anti-gun sentiment.
comer in New York City at rush 
hour can only be explained by the 
fact that I think it was. There are 
13 songs on this album. I knew 
there was a reason that I thought 
13 was an unlucky number. Now 
Ive confirmed it.
Anyway, there are a slight few 
redeeming qualities to this al
bum. The title track, Set It Off, 
is bearable if you skip the intro
duction. And, the last song, The 
World is Mine, has that, you
know, domination kind of feel to 
it. For those that like power 
struggles I highly recommend 
the last song. But dont be like 
me and get stuck with a tape. I 
was forced to listen to the whole 
album in order.
Well, there isnt a whole lot left 
to say. One positive thing that I 
want to leave you with comes 
from the inside cover of the al
bum. The liner notes contain a 
message which I feel compelled 
to share with you. The inscrip
tion is as follows:
This record is dedicated in 
memory of David Singer and 
Rawn Beatty who died as a re
sult of guns. At the time Set It 
Off was recorded (March/April 
94) 264 people were killed by 
guns in NYC. That number has 
more than doubled since its re
lease (approximately 2 1/2 
months). STOP THE VIO
LENCE!!!
I think that this is the only 
thing that the band and I agree 
on. Now, I could be really mean 
and speculate as to why the rate 
increased after the release of the 
first song, but Ill just leave the 
message to stand as it does.
From me to you, Stop being 
part of the problem and become 
part of the solution. Stop gun
play.
Female medical student seeks 
to share security furnished , 
apartment at Webster Hall, Fifth 
Ave. Everything included/ 
reasonable. To see, call office at 
621-4132.
Summer and fall rental.
Shadyside one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to 
campus. On campus shuttle 
bus route. Close to shopping. 
Very clean and spotless. Private 
bathrooms and kitchens. 
Spacious bookshelves. Roomy 
closets. Very secure apartment 
buildings. From $235. Call 
683-0776.
Earn $2000+ monthly. Parttime/full-time. World Travel. 
Caribbean, Hawaii. All positions 
available. No experience. Call 
602-453-4651.
Cruise Ships Now Hiring - Earn 
up to $2,000+/ month working 
on Cruise Ships or Land Tour 
companies. World travel (Ha
waii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 
etc.) Seasonal and Full-Time 
employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
information call 1 -206-634-0468 
ext. C52362
TRAVEL
SERVICES
**Spring Break '95 ** Cancn, 
Bahamas, Jamaica, South 
Padre, Margarita Island,
Panama City, Daytona - Quality 
vacations at the guaranteed 
lowest prices! Group discounts 
for 10 or more people! Spacing 
is limited! Breakaway Travel & 
Tours Inc. @ 1-800-214-8687.
Travel free! Spring Break 95!
Guaranteed lowest prices, 
lamaica, Cancn, Bahamas, 
Florida. Book early & save $$$! 
Organize group travel free! 1- 
800-426-7710
JOBS
Spring Break 95**
America's #1 Spring Break 
Company! Cancn, Bahamas, 
Florida! 110% Lowest Price 
Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 
and travel free! Call our final
ized 1995 party schedules!
(800) 95-BREAK
Men/Women earn up to $480 
weekly assembling circuit 
boards/electronic components 
at home. Experience unneces
sary, will train. Immediate 
openings your local area. Call 
1-602-680-4777 ext. 102C
international Students: DV-1 
Greencard program by U.S. 
immigration. Greencards 
provide permanent resident 
status. Citizens of almost all 
countries are allowed. For info & 
forms: New Era Legal Services, 
20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, 
CA 91306, Tel: (818)-998-4425; 
(818) 772-7168, MondaySunday 10a.m.-11 p.m.
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words..........$8.00 / wk
51-100 words......$10.00/wk
Classifieds must be paid 
in cash or by check before 
the first-scheduled run 
date.
Due by 5 pm the Thurs
day before publication.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 January 1995Lil
Thursday, January 26
Rivers Edge
Looks like theyre getting bitter at DH2210, be
cause now theyre showing movies about people 
who die on the edge of rivers. Starring Crispin 
Glover, Keanu Reeves, and Dennis Hopper, this 
movie was directed in 1986 by Tim Hunter and 
seems pretty OKAY.
Well, either that, or it stars Ray Milland, An
thony Quinn, and Debra Paget, and was directed in 
1957 by Allan Dwan.
If it was made in 1986, itll be a drama about a 
bunch of wacky teenagers who have trouble abrewin in their waters, when one of the darn kids 
goes and murders one of the other kids, leaving her 
to rot at the rivers edge. And get this; Crispin heyyou, get-your-damn-hands-off-her Glover is the 
leader of this crazy bunch!
If it was made in 1957, however, its about a 
dastardly villain going on a crazy-kooky-wild trip 
across the border with his ex-girlfriend and hus
band (the ex-girlfriends, that is), and a huge suit
case full of moolah.
So its like this, boys and girls; you either get 
decomposition, or large denominations of cash! Its 
rotting or revenue! Fertilization or funds! Its the 
thrill of currency or the smell of dead feet!
Youre probably into money, but if youre not into 
dead people, you might be taking a chance on this 
one. If you like corpses though, you cant miss!!! 
Also, if you like corpses, be sure to catch The Corpse 
Grinders on Sunday (see review below).
At 6, 8,10 pm, 12 midnight.
Friday, January 27
Drugstore Cowboy
A lot of people ask me if I ever see the movies I 
review in this thing, and the answer is a resounding 
sort of. This movie, however, I did see, and to top 
it all off, I saw it twice\ If that doesnt make up for 
all the plots Ive made up and synopses Ive asked 
other people for, I dont know what will.
Drugstore Cowboy stars a lion and some hyenas. 
The lion is played by Matthew Modine, I think. Or 
Matt Dillon. And it was directed by Stephen 
Speilrock, aka Gus Van Sant. And it co-stars Sally 
Field or Kelly Lynch, I think. The movie is all about 
how Dillon knocks over drugstores and steals heroin 
and codeine and really addictive cough syrup. With 
a brief cameo by William Burroughs, the writer of 
Tarzan or something, this is a very, very, good 
movie. See it twice for twice the fun!
At 6, 8,10pm, and midnight.
Saturday, January 28
The Lion King
If you dont know what this movie is about or 
havent seen it yet, youre a dork, so for the rest of 
this review Im going to repeat the words Hakuna 
Matata, which means dork in lion language, I 
think.
Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna Matata. Hakuna 
Matata. Hakuna Matata.
At 5:30, 7, 8:30,10,11:30 hakuna, and 1 matata.
Sunday, January 29
The Corpse Grinders
Why are they showing a movie called The Corpse 
Grinders, you ask? How the hell am I supposed to 
know? This movie is about what, you ask? Corpse 
grinders. Thats what Id assume most of the cam
era time is dedicated to. There are no lions, no 
hyenas, no scary, drug-addled authors. Corpse 
grinders, kids. And this comes out of your activities 
fee.
Anyway, if you enjoy B-movies, Im sure youll 
enjoy this one. I mean, if youre going to DH2210 on 
Sunday at all, you might as well see something 
directed by an unknown and acted by a bunch of 
whiny teen-agers. Hakuna Matata.
At 6, 8,10pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Woolf bores
By JOHN BIGGS their lines simply by rote. In fact,
Tartan Staffwriter it was easy to hear the actual
stresses and bold-faced words in 
It seems a great disservice has the text. Then, at times, the play
been done to either a fine script 
or a fine team of actors. Although 
paradoxical, this is my criticism 
of Edward Albees Whos Afraid 
of Virginia Woolf, now showing 
at the Playhouse Theater.
Albees convoluted creation 
shines at moments, as do the ac
tors. However, neither shine at
itself grew convoluted. Unfortu
nately, it is hard to tell who is at 
fault and I was forced to submit 
and watch the duration of the 
play.
Laine, as George, was seem
ingly the most experienced of the 
troupe, and he was often quite 
good. However, the other characthe same points, and this causes ters only acted well when they 
a great many problems. Starring acted drunk, excepting Delany as 
Raymond Laine, a Point Park ProHoney, who seemed to be drunk
f e s s o r , 
Point Park 
graduates 
Doug. 
Mertz and 
Robin 
Walsh, 
and stu
dent, Col
leen De
lany, this 
story 
about two 
married 
couples 
battling 
over each 
others 
truths and 
illusions
John Fobes
The actors enduring the swinging-door 
injustice that is this production of Whos 
Afraid of Virginia Woolf are (Lto R): Raymond 
Laine, Robin Walsh, Colleen Deiany, and 
Doug Mertz. Are the actors suffering or the 
script? You decide.
the whole 
time. The 
result left 
a bad 
taste in 
my mouth 
and a dis
appoint
ment in 
the play as 
a whole. 
Although 
I respect 
Albee and 
his work, 
this pro
duction 
left much 
to be de
sired.
grew tiresome as the three long 
acts progressed.
Punctuated by fine perfor
mances by each of the four actors, 
the play plodded at points and 
ran at others, never reaching a 
pleasant tilt.
The play, written in 1962, deals 
with George, Martha, Honey, and 
Dick and their various problems. 
All are alcoholics or are quite 
fond of the bottle, for the duraTo recap, the play was long, the 
script was hard to understand, 
and the actors were weak and 
loose. The strength that could 
have been made apparent was 
not, and I hope that in future 
productions, more of the strength 
will appear.
However, on the night I saw 
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf, it 
didnt seem anyone was afraid of 
Virginia Woolf, and, it seemed,
tion of the play was spent at the the actors just were afraid they
wet bar.
The four danced around themes 
that might have been powerful 
had they been delivered more 
keenly and moving had they been 
written with a more gentle hand. 
By the end, a protagonist is not 
found, nor is there a clear under
standing as to what just went on. 
Here we find the paradox.
wouldnt be allowed to end the 
production.
Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf 
is showing at the Playhouse The
ater, 222 Craft Avenue, until Feb
ruary 5. Show times are Wednes
days through Saturdays at 8pm 
and Sunday at 2 pm. Student 
discounts are available. Call 621-
Pizza judged
THE PIZZA REVIEWS?
By Jon Slenk and the PRB (Pizza Review Board)
Welcome back to a new year and a new series of pizza reviews! 
We dive right back into the thick of things with a review of Pizza 
Perfecta.
The Pepperoni
One reviewers comment sort of sums up our attitude to the 
pepperoni pie:Did this come from Pizza Outlet? (note that the 
reviewer in question doesnt really like Pizza Outlet). The crus!; 
was thin and a tad on the crispy aide, but didnt really have ant' 
flavor. Instead, it added a vaguely of gritty taste to things. 1
The sauce was pretty straight-forward, not outstanding, not 
awful. Some thought it could have been more tomatoey. We fell 
the cheese was, again, average (with, debatably, a faint rubbery 
feel to it).
Finally, the pepperoni was of the thin variety. Some found it 
quite agreeable while others members of the board didnt dig 
that format. -
The Special
Here, again, the crust was nothing exceptional. What made 
the pizza was perhaps not so much what it had but what it didn't 
have - tomato sauce was replaced by tomatoes and the mozzar 
rella was swapped for feta (mmm, goat milk fat!) and, to top 
things off, spinach was added. This pizza went over quite wel) 
with the board, who found the feta and tomato to be a lively ..
blend. Not everyone on the board really likes spinach, but th 
quality of the spinach itself was considered adequate.
Crust: We have a low of 5 and a high of 6. ,;
Sauce: Achieved a low score of 5 and a high of 6.5.
Cheese: General agreement here, a flat 5.
Pepperoni: A low of 4, a high of 6. , ;
Special: This ranged from 6 to 8.
In Conclusion
The pepperoni wasnt anything to write home about. It was 
acceptable, but we felt that there wasnt anything that made it 
better than average. The special was a fair bit better, perhaps 
due to the lack of sauce and change of cheese. Overall, wed 
suggest you think of Perfecta as a source ol'more exotic pizzas.
If we do some quick number juggling, we get an overall granpl 
score of 6.
The actors, at times, delivered 4445 for more information.Murmurs deliver folky style with feminine touch
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
Artist: The Murmurs 
Album: The Murmurs 
Suggested Tracks: You Suck, 
Basically
Fads may come and go, but the 
sound of an acoustic guitar will 
never go out of style. The beauty 
of six strings resonating through 
an oddly-shaped piece of deli
cately-sliced wood stays in the 
hearts and minds of music appreciators everywhere.As with 
any genre of music, however, folk 
music faces a strong stereotype, 
mainly that of the old fart singing 
about Lynda Lou and the Froggy 
that picked up chicks in bars and 
called it courtin.
MCA Records 
The Murmurs debut has a great 
folk feel to it.
Enter the Murmurs, two 
women who have come from out 
of nowhere to give us their new 
twist on the style of songwriting 
that has been original musics
mainstay for countless decades. 
Both Heather and Leisha (their 
last names are not given in the 
album sleeve) play guitar, and 
share the vocal chores, harmo
nizing much like the Jayhawks.
Whether attacking old lovers 
(You Suck) or lamenting the 
death of a loved one (Beautiful 
Place,) the Murmurs pull out 
one beautifully interwoven vo
cal after another, creating a 
sound that can only be achieved 
through authenticity and hon
esty.
Particularly touching is the 
empathic Basically, which fo
cuses on the pains of entering 
mid-life, knowing that meno
pause is not far behind (How do 
you hold inside/the rage that you 
must feel/watching your body give
up on you.) Mission is a deeply 
introspective tune, where feel
ings of remorse, love, and hope 
clash together with an extremely 
soft-spoken outcome that grabs 
the very heart of the listener. 
Its not all sadness and depres
sion, though; on many songs, such 
as Ticket To Zen and Bumble
bees, show a fantastic side to the 
duo. Talk of dreams, angels, and 
castle towers show the vividly 
imaginative side of this group.
The performance is beautifully 
tight; you can feel that the two 
have a common link that extends 
far beyond you play a guitarj I 
play a guitar, lets be a band a'nd 
get real far. tT
Try em out for yourself; its 
worth the price of a CD to experi
ence new music this good. >
Safe Passage shows struggle, triumph in family life
PASSAGE,, from page L5
dpline above and beyond normai pride, one 
reserved for; those disciplined in their craft.
Izzy, the scientist, is constantly hanging at 
his father's heels, revealing the lack of atten
tion that he nomaliy feels from him. Merle 
ami Darren, the ( wins. are pretty darn bland 
.(when pointing out the roles of the other kids 
in the family, Percival, age 18 says, Gideons 
the athlete, Izzys the brain, the twins are the 
twins...), Simons frankness with Mag dis
plays the freedom with which he has been 
raised; Ins parents-have been liberal with 
him, having, figured out how they want to 
bring him up.
But the real stars are Sarandon and Sam 
Shepard "(who pi ays Patrick, the father); these 
two have got the routine down pat. Their 
characters know each others every move, 
tight down to how many times Patrick dunks 
his teabag before throwing it over his shoul
der and into the sink.
Throughout the film, all of the characters 
are forced to come to terms with the mistakes 
they have made whilethe children were.growing up; as with any turbulent family: situa
tion, the moments of truth are frequent, and Susan Safandon an(j Sam shepar(j had great kjds huh? 
in fact, rule the show. The parents, most of all, An amazing ca8t adorn8 th|s fi|rrli givlng this fam|| a 
have to level wrth themselves, and face the yariance and unseen ln past family mov[es. 
fact that, no matter how any of their children s
TimoUiy White/New Line
lives have prospered, they cant:, 
take solo credit for it, as all/ 
parents improvise their teachh, 
ings from day one to the end ofc. 
their term as Mom andDad .f J
There is no rhyme or reason-, 
to it, no classes to take on being.; 
a better parent; they can only^ 
rejoice in the fact that, asl 
Alfreds girlfriend Cynthia* 
(Marcia Gay Harden) saysyj 
theyre all good, decent men;
The Singer family is no bunch!- 
of Cleavers; but they clearljw 
and openly love each other with./ 
their whole hearts, and do wonti/ 
derfully in pulling together ini* 
the face of a possible death in-; 
the family.
I have never seen a family,.) 
film more honest than this one&r 
as a person who has bratallyCi 
frank conversations with hisl* 
parents and sibling I apprec&t 
ate the authenticity in the te i 
teractions that this film islaced < 
with, and would recommend itl 
to anyone whos sick of watch
ing fluff and cheese. ; .
Go see it. You wont be sorry.;J

---------------------------------------------------

.RUMS
Rivers Edge will be playing in Doherty Hall 
2210 Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Drugstore Cowboy will play Friday in Doherty 
Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Lion King will be shown this Saturday at 5:30,7, 
8:30, 10, 11:30 hakuna, and 1 am matata in 
Doherty Hall 2210.
The Corpse Grinders is playing Sunday in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Second Annual Israel Film Festival will 
be held during the month of February. The films 
will be shown at the Beehive in Oakland. Six 
films will be screened and shown on Sunday to 
Wednesday throughout the month.
.SPORTS
The mens basketball team will compete at 
home against the University of Chicago on Janu
ary 27 at 8 pm and Washington University of 
Missouri on January 29 at 1 pm.
The womens basketball team hosts the Uni
versity of Chicago on Friday at 6 pm and Wash
ington University of Missouri on the 29 at 3 pm.
The mens and womens swim team will com
pete at Washington and Jefferson College on 
January 27 at 6 pm and at Allegheny College on 
January 28 at 1 pm.
The mens and womens indoor track team
will compete all day at the Slippery Hock Univer
sity of Pennsylvania Invitational on January 28.
.RELIGION
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech House 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 8 pm. All 
are invited. For more information, call 268-2484.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Student 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. Week
end Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm 
every Sunday in Posner Hall. For more informa
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681- 
3181.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Av
enue (near South Craig Street), will perform 
Eucharist every Wednesday at noon and Sunday 
at 11 am. Call 682-6886 for more information.
ART
The Beehive in Oakland, 3807 Forbes Avenue, 
presents Superbowl Saturday Improv! on Janu
ary 28 at 8 pm. Admission is $5.
The Carnegie Museum of Natural Historys
Changing Exhibits Gallery presents a 1500-year 
tradition celebrated in The Fetish Carvers of 
Zuni on display from January 21 through April 
9. Admission for adults is $5, $4for senior citi
zens, and for children and students with ID is $3. 
For more information call 622-3131. Free 30- 
minute highlight tours of the exhibit will be 
offered on Saturday, February 18 and March 11 
at 1 pm and Sunday, February 19 and March 12 
at 3 pm.
African Odyssey: Photographs by Donald
M. Robinson will be on display at The Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History Gallery from Janu
ary 21 through July 2 during regular museum 
hours  Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10 
am - 5 pm and Sundays from 1-5 pm. Admission, 
which includes all permanent and special exhibi
tions in the Carnegie Museum of Art and Natural 
History, is $5 for adults, $4 for senior citizens, $3 
for children and students, and free for members. 
For more information, call 622-3131.
Silver Eye Center for Photography in con
junction with the Kingsley Association presents 
A Sense of Common Ground: Photographs from 
African Refugee Communities and showing at 
the Kingsley Association is Reflections of the 
Cycles of Life and Exhibition of Traditional Afri
can Art: thought-provoking programming about 
contemporary African culture and politics. The 
exhibition dates for both exhibitions are Febru
ary 1 through March 18. The receptions for both 
shows are planned for February 11 from 46 pm 
at the Kingsley Association and from 4 - 8:30 pm
at the Silver Eye. Contact Silver Eye at 431-1810 
or Kingsley Association at 661-8751.
James Loney, a local artist, will present a sitespecific installation at the Hewlett Gallery en
titled Radiant Arc from January 16 to February
4. Inspired by the most recent solar eclipse, Loney 
broadened his ongoing explorations of alchemy 
with studies of celestial events. For the Hewlett, 
he has composed a large scale on-site installation
 reminiscent of a crescent  of a found object 
curved and balanced by hundreds of luminous 
strings. Gallery hours are 11:30 am - 5 pm week
days and 1-4 pm on Saturdays.
The Andy Warhol Museum will be showing 
Sleep, a film directed by Andy Warhol, on January 
25 and 27 at 12:30 pm, January 26 at 7 pm, 
January 28 at 7:30 pm, and January 29 at 3 pm. 
Splendor in the Grass (directed by Elia Kazan) 
with Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty will play 
on January 25 and 28 at 3 pm, January 26 and 29 
at 12:30 pm and January 27 at 7:30 pm.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents the 
following exhibitions: The Age of Elegance: 18thCentury Prints and Drawings from the Collec
tion, through February 5, The Art of Deception: 
Understanding Whats Real, through March 5, 
The Cave, through March 19, Bonsai from 
Phipps Conservatory, through April, Karl 
Friedrich Schinkel, 1781-1841: The Drama of 
Architecture, from February 11 through April 
16, and Other Places, Other Times: Photographs 
from the Collection, from February 11 through 
May 28.
An Evening of One-Acts presented by PittsburghNew Voices and featuring William Loeffiers 
Wolverines. Diana Osbergs Elephant Blind, 
and Scott C. Sickles Holidaze will be performed 
on January 25 at 8 pm at Victoria Hall, 201 South 
Winebiddle Street in Bloomfield. For more infor
mation or reservations on this fundraising event, 
call 734-8951.
City Theatre, 57 South 13th Street, presents 
Fires in the Mirror, a play by Anna Deavere, 
through February 5. Performance times are Tues
days through Fridays at 8 pm, Saturdays at 5:30 
and 9 pm, and Sundays at 2 pm. Memberships and 
single tickets are on sale at the City Theatre Box 
Office. Half-price tickets are available a half-hour 
before the performance to students and senior 
citizens with proper identification. Discounts and 
special packages are available for groups of 10 or 
more, and reduced-price tickets for a weekday 
matinee performance are available for groups of 
students or seniors. For ticket information call 
the Box Office at 431-CITY.
The Beehive Tea Room presents a night of 
stand-up poetry with Kathy Jo Kramer, a Carnegie 
Mellon Alumna on February 10 at 9 pm.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra presents The 
Canadian Brass, a world-famous quintet that will 
play a selection of favorites ranging from Bach 
and Mozart to Gershwin and Dixieland on Janu
ary 23 at 7:30 pm, and Celebration of American 
Music, with conductor Matthias Bamert and pia
nist Radu Lupu, on January 26 at 7:30 pm, Janu
ary 27 at 8 pm, and January 28 at 8 pm. The 
program will feature Cadmans American Suite, 
Beethovens Concerto in C Major for Piano and 
Orchestra, Opus 15, and Brahms Piano Quartet 
in G minor, Opus 25. For more information and 
tickets, please contact the Heinz Hall Box Office 
at 392-4900.
Lucianos, 1023 Forbes Avenue, presents Cajun 
and Zydeco. Learn to dance the Cajun two-step, 
jitterbug and waltz, as well as some Zydeco steps 
on February 6 and 20 and March 6 and 20. Dance 
instructions start at 8 pm and are followed by live 
music. Beginners are welcome.
Borders Books and Music in the South Hills 
announces that jazz performances will be fea
tured at the store every Friday night at 7:30 pm. 
The free performances will take place in Cafe 
Expresso located on the upper level of Borders. 
Jimmy Ponder will be appearing on January 27. 
For more information call 854-BOOK.
River City Brass Band presents the Pittsburgh 
debut of The Wallace Collection, a brass and 
percussion ensemble at Carnegie Music Hall in 
Oakland. Ticket prices are between $11, $15, $18 
and $25. For information call 1-800-292-RCBB.
Lucianos presents Kid Early, Lucy Vansickle, 
and Wattz on February 18 at 10 pm.
Hakuna Matata! Hakuna Matata! Hakuna Matata!
.NOTICES
Reclaiming Our Urban Riverfront: New
Perspectives for Public Space Development, a 
free public forum hosted by the Heinz Architec
tural Center of the Carnegie Museum of Art and 
sponsored by Friends of the Riverfront will be 
held January 28 from 9 am - 4 pm in the Museum 
of Art Theater to review existing proposals, and 
explore the views, opportunities and public poli
cies surrounding them. For seat reservations and 
information, call 231-0754.
Goodwill Industries of Pittsburgh is looking 
for book lovers who are willing to volunteer a few 
hours a week at its South Side location to help 
sort thousands of donated books in preparation 
for its Annual Great Book Sale in the spring. 
Volunteers can select their days and hours to 
meet their own schedules. Goodwills 1995 Great 
Book Sale will be March 31 through April 2. To 
schedule a time to volunteer, call 481-9005, Ext. 
260.
Fallingwater seeks volunteers to greet visitors, 
answer questions, perform light office work, an
swer phones, landscape, and take part in special 
events. Fallingwaters season is from April 
through November, and a commitment of at least 
two days a month is desired. Contact Mark 
Tomlinson at 329-8501for more information.
Three Rivers Juggling Festival hosted by the 
Carnegie Mellon Juggling Club and the Northland 
Juggling Club will be held on January 28 from 
noon to 11 pm. There will be door prizes, contests, 
vendors, representatives from the International 
Jugglers Association, public shows, workshops, 
instructions and lessons. Admission is free. Ev
eryone is welcome from beginners to experts even 
if you have never juggled before. For more infor
mation contact Joe Lyons at 931-1841 or Andrew 
Stellman at 862-3662 or via email at roo.
Residential Assistant Information Session 
will be held on January 26 at 8 pm in the Donner 
Reading Room. Applications are available in the 
Residence Life Office and are due by January 31.
Special Interest House Applications are cur
rently available in the Residence Life Office and 
are due by February 4.
The Jewish University Center invites every
one to join them for a big Superbowl Party on 
January 29 at 6 pm at the Jewish University 
Center. Free food and drink will be available. 
Email rsbj with questions.
Powdermill Nature Reserve presents The 
Origin and Importance of Fur Trade on January
29 at 2 pm, On the Light Side, about healthy 
snacking on February 5 at 2 pm, and The History 
and Use of Snowshoes on February 12 at 2 pm.
The Walt Disney Company. All rights reserved.
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Architecture
Department will offer a 10-week course entitled 
Architecture for Children from January 14 
through March 18. The class meets from 9:30 - 
11:30 am on Saturdays. Cost for the program is 
$130 for grades 3-8 and $175 for grades 9 -12. 
All class materials are included in the course fee. 
To register, call 268-1542.
MEETINGS
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning Room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for more infor
mation.
The Fencing Club meets on Sundays (at 2 pm), 
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at 6:30 pm in 
the Fencing Club Room (formerly Activity Room 
B) in the main gym. For more information, email 
cd2b,call 862-2899, or subscribe to emu,- 
student.fencing.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See their bulletin 
board near the front of Doherty Hall for informa
tion on upcoming activities.
Student Environmental Action Coalition
(SEAC) meets every Thursday at 8:30 at the 
SE AC office, Student Center 112. If you think 
environmental changes need to be done on cam
pus, or if you would like to participate in environ
mental issues on campus and nationally, then 
come and join. For more information, email Teresa 
Leonardo at tl29 or Noemi Barabas at ng25.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For more information, email cd2b, call 862- 
2151, or subscribe to assocs.Kenpo_Karate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information please call 268- 
2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email ks59 or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians meets at 9 pm 
on Thursday nights in DH1217. For more infor
mation, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
ALLIES meeting will be held on January 23 at
8 pm in the Student Center, room 210.
Iu) ^  Submit Calendar and Vox Populi announcements! Announcements should be 20 words or less and are due Thursday at 5 pm.
(Li) 1L O jp' vLIL 1L JL Drop them off at the Tartan office in the Student Center or email to ra37.
Vice  ill IPeople Get prepared for the Valentines Day Vox Populi special issue! Submit a message to your loved one now. Deadline for entries is February 9.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

ui
c= 

- -, t
lill%,- .VniiV---o; a^MiUs iccs 3N3H Wfi) . KVVJ 01 K'.1W3 ION l WJ. rCK
SW203 3iV\ MK 3W3> GW SWBW' }\13N3S> OlNi KWWfcd T,.l
ainm NMo sw oi 9NKsaai 3SSMNft 3HJ. 3dWS% NO VWW 1NH1 NOliiSOdOd rtl 01 33390 W 3MDKB0 HI
M* 'ASUV130S 'i "53 01^ swos vu 'da Noaa i mS
 MONX Ql Q33V) 
OJ, 1WM Sil ,'SMBN 
VJ0'D>3 SS3Nl\tt3>.3 SWHl
_*k. 
iSflJ SS>3T<n3H UllW 
QBIH'lW 38 QTCKS flQJL MW rOK TOI TOH 
QNV S3MW13H TOlilSKM 
'SNI880S JO SWOOa 9NIM13rtl 
TO W01S 3H1 135 TON
cOK 3B WllDIK 1X3N 3rtl
aioo ;s3ioe SsfioD
aftBttS QNV SXWM3CHS QHasii'ids-oocna .svqn Vuyf ss3>um'3>>3 wo ixan
4
m*..'jfapgjlr^jI ' \M 7
-I-0< \^r
3:?!%,3h\
^ ^ vHioa^/1 
01 3MYV iON BaXiOiv 
il hTZO.i QW OS OSaaaaa%^
38 witvws S31VWU aim
* O o xS^o. _:'4^D'V
f 35.13 TW V" 
l 3N03V ML / b30N! 
^-------------./ nWOlll
^ 'ao xcma fv
y1""
f
aar\s
Norton
OK 3V
o </ /SVilHltoty ' 
^ aoj j&aa w.T j
74^'
/ sanwdocn \\ BAOT I 1
ZindS BiaWOHi iOHrtbS 
HooUoW. >N>7 df'M^qqnd 
On0 X3H qo03 b>^D^
y/l
i
-Zpr
/y/>
SpjOM UMO
jnok ui uoiy>|rt p mg] 
suo^ms^ uieid<3 i

---------------------------------------------------

sronratN 
' iO SNUONKs toiwum 58 01 3SM3B I
3*wa3ioi raw ii Ca iiva^Qi
W) T i\ tAON> UtOQ 1
>' / S3MV, - NW1330sanawi WHi aMCgGa SWHW iO 12Q\ 3WC6 5NM-lSr>Vl 3U0 '-35.3VO=K)ijdwi oi a^cao v -35s,: svicumo'na vava* 3M a(G>. no Suoo notc w*
iC3acs sin N-m oQ o; ?\ H13W05 iscxr li si ao
.(HisrfiN TT3H, 3N\iBa v d HV3KHO
hwf.bU
ivo:-. / b 
bJ?507i 3W Niaw 5NI Liw
iw3a3ijia isr\r su NMui /amia. insi =rwj)\A ki'^aSMO aivanoi cu. Q33>i 3ia ow 
arm lendr s1. r.s.i fd 
D31SJ& 3)3 3Ml'Jl3a *W Slf'Ttfi. MUM TVJ sv ina

---------------------------------------------------

^HE'SBACKON THS HILL. 
ONLY-THIS VMS THS6.0.P. 'S 
FUNNING THE COMMITTEES!
SIR., THIS \ COMMITTEE 
OUJESYOU 
A FULL 
APOLOGY! \
U/H AT? 
tUHATIS rr.MtKs*rs TarrtAGAIN...
f^\/KES NIGHTMARE SCENARIO.\
MR. BUTTS, FOR] L=T7 '' '
THS FIRST TIMS _ T> -.d. NoteTh flw
i[ng arcgpPs d
. lpbicsul-G y  /^% / 
z-cbbggJ jr - u L
nPes olsGardenrSp 
nGcilT 1 LB000-6/B!
I ALMOST F0R6OTTHS 
CHAIRMANS SQUARELY . 
fr IN MY POCKET.'AS SOMAS
ws mu
CHAIRMAN L ARRIVES.' A
OH...THEicmmm
MR. BUTTS. I \ HOPS )WFA -1 
LTZETNAJEMN 
THOUGH KJUAf5\ 
NOUJAMONG AUJES, MS 
snu-Mmr HAVS TO ASK 
THEOCCASIONALTOUSH QUESTION. J
NOW, THEN. 
SIR! UHICH 
ISMORSSAT1SFYING, MsmoLon 
REGULAR?
Y IKES! THAT 
ISAT0U6H 
ONE! 1ST f
ih mm... J
\ I UNDERSTAND,
Z.
(S^UtsCteuA 1 *
\ BUTTS? mAUTOGRAPH, ]"y { SENATO?!/./
icWrc
;:<*p
r=-"
MR. BUTTS,THE AMERICAN PEOPLEOVEYOU AN APOLOGY...
FOR YEARS.
THSJRRSPRESENTAHYE50N
TrilZCCMMlTTEEHAVE RUTHLESSLYHOUNPSP
YOUR/NPUSTRY...
.. INVESTI6ATING 
YOU, DEMONIZINS YOU, TAXJNG TOU! 
HJEU., SIR, YOUR 
NkSHTMARE/S 
OVER! FREEDOM \ dB srGt dS 
kExCp
0H...UM...50RM.did Dko mm , SCMS-r^jT
"ITWAS A NIGHTMARE! I 
FROM THE LATE NIGHT  
VISITS FROS\N!CO-NAZIS..
..TDTHS RELENTLESS FSRseamoN -ki E. ^.hhPuu 
fTmr* 
Woi:CFROM MBMR. BUTTS, DID 
THSCONGRESSIONAL UJTTZH HUNTS MAKS 
UFB DIFFICULT 
FOR YOU AND 
YOUR FAMILY?
UM... MR. CHAIRMAN, THATUM..SORR] n ms 
FROMTHS O&PLAYEOOK. \
THENHOU! ABOUT THS 
STUPES 
YOUSUPSO VIE 
RISK OF 
GETTING CANCER*
-,WHAT
famous

---------------------------------------------------

EXPLAIN? HOLU 
J.J., R CAN tOU EXPLAIN
i F:C f| jams mem, EXPLAIN..]] TYOPFKHIFGS. 
 GUN NUTS AND
A**- MICHAEL,
S2S* fe*'YOLTLLHARPLY
fence ANY h:hmncceecttsrzt ,/T'w'
I PIPNT HEAR YOU CORRECTLY, MIKE. YOU COULPNT POSSIBLYHAVE Jim TOO? ME THAT YOU \VTEPREPUBLICAN'
 I CANT U LOOK.J.J. BELIEVE 1 PITTING A 
WEARS VcmS TO THE 
HERE [RIGHT HAS A 
MICHAEL A LOTOFAPVANFOR INSTANCE, CONSERVATISM 
MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO TRANSFORM YOUR PESPEST FEARS 
INTO OPEN CONVICTIONS!
UKEUIHAJ, WELL, LIKE 
M&7 WHAT THE RELATION-mn/rro wGwyw1hcwcIVHAir STILL HAVE TO [Iir'[TALK IN COPE.REALLY TALKRACEANP IH6 ABOUT CRIME.
I MEAN,1 STILL OPPOSE PtSCRJM!NATION, 1STTLL StPPORTR&ROOJCTTVE FREEDOM,
,__ I'M STILL GIVING TO
^ ANTI GUN GROUPS...3^
JM...OKAY, I \ 
OP STOP PAYMEtfTGLTHAT 
CUE CHECK. j
J.J.,1 PONT KNOW WHAT 
YOURE GETTING SO WORKEP 
UP OYER. TT5 NOT LIKE IJOtNEPTHERAPtr 
CALRIGHT...
HOW I ABOUT 
LESBIAN
ARTISTS']
kHEhr
BESIPES, I STILL HOLP THE SAME CORE CONVICmCNSANPPRJNCIKEGT ALWAYS HAVE!
WELL, eXCUS5 ME, MIKE,BUT 
HJHEN YOUVEUVEPWiTH SOMEONE FOR A LONG 77ME, ITS A 
mCFASHOCKTOMAKEUP 
ANP SUPPENLY FINP VLAT...
HOW LONG FIVE
HOVE you YEAR
BEEN ys=
J.J.,1 PONT 
SEEWHATTHE 
BIG PEAL 15 
HERE-TVS " ONLY POLITICS..
WHAT7
YOU KNOW, THE IRONY OF 
THIS IS THAT EVEN THOUGH 1VOTEP REPUBLICAN. I 
PONT REALLY FEEL ALL 
THATCONSERVAVVE...rwM.
GUESSYCUVEALUAYSSEE.'.
L,KMOST
PEOPLE
WHAT IVE BEEN FEEuNG 
LATELY 15 A CEEPYEARNING , FOR. 4 RETURN 10 ACCOUNT
ABILITY, TO SANITY, TO 
CIVILITYJUST LIKe 
MOST PEOPLE*\

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDE
By GARY LARSON
"Situation's changed, JulesTake my buffalo gun 
and hand me my mime rifle."
Artist: G. Larson 
Medium: Ink on paper 
Title: It Was Late and I Was Tired
"CHICKEN UP!"
"You ewer get that urge, Frank? It begins with looking 
down Irom 50 stories up, thinking about the 
meaninglessness of life, listening to dark voices 
deep inside you, and you think, Should I? ... 
Should I? ...Should I push someone off?"
"Oh, yeah! Well, I'd rather be a living corpse made 
from dismembered body parts than a hunchbacked 
little grave robber like you!"
"The first thing I'm gonna do is wipe 
that smile off your face!"
Until God warned him to knock it off, Noah would 
often try to get a little poker game going with 
some of the dumb animals.
"Well, hell no, I cant tell Harriet!... First thing 
she's gonna ask me Is what was I doin' 
checkin' out a decoy!
"He's making his nest now ...There! See it? 
That son-of-a-... He's got himself a futon!

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDE
By GARY LARSON
Well, it was a private table."Giorgio Armani at home
Your dog had both motive and opportunity, ma'am: 
He hated the cat and he's had training in operating 
heavy machinery.... Your husband, we feel, was 
just in the wrong place at the wrong time."
You folks like flies? Well, wait 'til 
you see the parlor!"

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDE
By GARY LARSON
Hunting lodge readings
CLOSE TO HOME john m^phersonCLOSE TO HOME fdCv neCotidv
"JOHNSON! BACK IN FORMATION!... Dang,
I hate sidewinders."
CLOSE to HOME john m=pherson
Im sick of stubbing my toe on this doorway."
/ O.-AUi';
I Won . \M>ni fa \ 
^ .Jo that1
Early checkers
Good news! The exploratory surgery 
turned up negative!
Everyone can just put down their loot and plunder, and 
Sven here  yes, old Sven, who was in charge of 
reading the tide chart  has something to say to us all."
At the Hair Club lot Men quality-control cenler.

---------------------------------------------------

CLOSE 4t HOME
JOHN MCPHERSON
, X lytNKikis/1MD0WMisi)~'l0l& 7f/R^s] WILL REALLY COMPLEMENT ; OHE HEAD MG J \ YOUR NATURAL SCENT/ y ' YOUR WAY HEAD \ 
HER Off Ar MEATS cx.:
AND GIVE HER ASHOT) 
OF PESEftr DUSK. JIM ALLERGICYOU IDIOTSf
Just minutes into their shopping spree, 
Jean and Lisa are ambushed by a gang 
of hostile cosmetic clerks.
Si
"Ever since we had the grease fire in the kitchen, 
George has been a bit overprotective."
"It's all yours!
Mcfefjcrr
Rather than risk biting into a chocolate that 
she didn't like. Barb pulled out her 
creme-filling detector.Oh, LASER. Well, I'm sorry, but that still looks like 
an 'O' on your application to me."

---------------------------------------------------

CLOSE e5 HOME
JOHN MCPHERSON
d i[ngi[Pbb \WITH TETfY YOU \ . COMB YOUR HAIR.
\ YOUNb nANffsnno NjJV THE CORUERf /
the Wickman family did its best to make the usualty 
dull task oi detrimming the tree more lively.
It didnt take much to upset Mrs. Stegler.
. t15,>vn Uteri-leni'V N >*tl!
Your root canal is pretty straightforward, 
Mrs. Zagler, so I'm going to turn things over to 
he Auto-Dentist. If you have any problems, 
just pull on that cord above your head.
Although she had endured many horrendous 
gas-station rest rooms, Susan had a feeling that 
this one would go down in infamy.
Lyle liked to think of himself as a full-service waiter.
Oh, those are our wedding photos. We had 
them all taken using that new 3-D technology!"
"Good afternoon, sir. My name is Daryl, 
and I'll be your ticketing officer."Its one of the new easy-open twist-off caps."
d/tse^/l

---------------------------------------------------

SMAfc OMS YOU GET UP  
ft)J ALREADY I5CRwy,w 
-._______, THINGS ARERt - ?A. I GO't'iG T0
;?C* ,X \ GO WELL
THEYRE THE iw OF 0MSw You PL5hoA bhPe usO in:
PUT YOUR PAJAMAS BACK 0. 
MAKE SOtAE HOT CHOCOLATE. 
MAO PAD COMIC BOOKS iM 
: BED VI ITU TOE COVERS UP 
f UUTIL TOC VJORLD LOOtfi MORE 
ENCOURAGING.
OU GRAY OMS. WHEU IT'S SHOWING 
OR RAINING. 1 TOINK YOU SHOULD 
BE. ABLE TO CAU. UP A JUDGE AUD
--------ft, TAKE "AN OATO TOM W\1
. " 1 JUST READ A GCGD BOOK
I IU \ AIL DAY. AND HE'D AUQW 
|. \ YOU TO STAY HOME
GC ECpc tI'H 
$C TO SCHOOL 
ON SUlUlY PASS'
WELL NO, ON SUMW 
DAYS TOE JUDGE 
WOULD LET SOU 
PLAY CMTSIDE.
HE'S QUITE 
A 6V)Y.
UE'D MAKE YOU GO 
TO SCHOOL IF IT 
WAS HOT. HW1. AKD 
HUMID WlTO A LOT 
s. OF BUGS.
OU. THANKS FOR 
TOE BIG HELP /
THATS A THREE. FOLLOWED EY
y -
I'LL SFOUT SIMPLISTIC OPINIONS FOR 
HOURS ON END. RIDICULE ANYONE 
WHO DISAGREES WITH ME. AND 
GENERALLY FOSTER DWISWENESS. 
CYNICISM. AMD A LOWER LEVEL 
OF PUBLIC DIALOG,-'
WEH nEfJHEW HE HEH HEH UEH' 
c Bert t. 7CG t. BoY
OBN'OUSLY l'ME TAPPED INTO 
SOtAE PRlMEVJAVWELL OF 
TOE HUMAN PSYCHE
/7 /kw
