FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
Several hundred people 
gathered around the Fence at 
a rally on Monday to demand 
justice for Trayvon Martin. 
The rally was organized by 
Carnegie Mellons Black Graduate Student Organization 
(BGSO).
Martin, a 17-year-old African-American boy, was shot 
and killed last month in Florida. The admitted shooter, 
George Zimmerman, says that 
he was acting in self-defense. 
Under Floridas stand-yourground law, any level of force 
is justi?ed if a person believes 
that his or her life is threatened. Unless it is proven that 
Zimmerman was not acting in 
self-defense, he cannot be arrested or charged.
Critics say that Florida authorities have not conducted 
an adequate investigation to 
determine whether Zimmerman acted in self-defense, 
and that Martin was racially 
pro?led. Phone records show 
that Zimmerman, a member 
of his neighborhood watch, 
followed Martin against the 
express instructions of a 911 
operator.
Protesters at the Fence 
wore hoodies  the clothing that Martin wore the day 
he was shot, which allegedly 
made Zimmerman suspicious 
of him  and passed out 
Skittles and iced tea, the items 
Martin had just bought from 
a convenience store when he 
died. Many carried signs that 
said, I am Trayvon Martin.
Four Carnegie Mellon students, two University of Pittsburgh students, and a local 
artist spoke at the rally. Vice 
president of the BGSO Brittany Claud, a masters student 
in Tepper School of Business 
and the Heinz School of Public Policy and Management, 
introduced the speakers and 
kicked off the rally.
Several of the speakers 
stressed the importance of 
demanding justice in concrete 
ways, such as voting in local 
elections. Its not enough to 
vote for a black president, 
said Jennifer Saint-Preux, a 
Pitt law student who spoke 
about the legal aspect of the 
situation. That is not what 
is going to change these laws 
on the books. This is a state 
issue.... If the only thing 
youre doing is voting for your 
president, youre not doing 
enough for your country, 
youre not doing enough for 
your state, and youre not 
doing enough for someone 
like Trayvon Martin. You need 
to be at every election. You 
need to take that hour and 
vote.
Kimberly Ellis, a local artist who goes by the name of 
Doctor Goddess, stressed the 
same point. Ellis tied it into 
the story of Jordan Miles, a 
local African-American teenager who was beaten and 
stunned by three Pittsburgh 
policemen while walking, unarmed, through Homewood in 
2010. Laws can be changed. 
But you have to show up at the 
voting booth. And you cannot 
just react.... So those of you 
who were in high school when 
[Miles was beaten], youre 
probably now old enough to 
vote. And if youre not registered, shame on you. Its not 
just about the vote. What hapSchool of Music celebrates centennial  B8Womens tennis upsets Washington and Lee  A7Trayvon Martin case shows need to confront racism  A5
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 2, 2012
Volume 106, Issue 23
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
Student Body President 
Jake Flittner is happy to be 
back to work.
On Feb. 23, the Undergraduate Student Senate 
voted to begin impeachment 
proceedings against Flittner, 
a senior mechanical engineering and engineering and 
public policy double major. 
For three weeks, he was constitutionally prohibited from 
performing any of his presidential duties. Last week, 
when the Graduate Student 
Assembly (GSA) failed to 
reach quorum at a joint meeting to vote on the matter, the 
motion expired, and Flittner 
was reinstated as president.
One of the rationales that 
Senators who moved to impeach Flittner gave was that 
he had failed to carry out 
his constitutional duties, but 
Flittner maintains that he 
performed those and more. 
Among other complaints, 
some Senators accused 
Flittner of not attending or 
sending a representative to 
every Student Senate meeting, which he is constitutionally required to do.
For the course of this 
whole year, between myself and [Student Body Vice 
President Sangita Sharma], 
weve gone to basically every 
meeting, Flittner said. Have 
there been one or two that, 
just because of schedule con?icts, we havent been able to 
make? Yeah. [But] weve been 
in the upper 90 percents. I believe theres been one or two 
one of us hasnt been there 
for. First semester, I went to 
most of the meetings, and 
then second semester, Sangitas been going to almost all 
of the meetings.
Flittner does not believe 
that one or two missed meetings over the course of a year 
constitute a failure of duty.
I ask myself the question, 
Why is going to Senate, why 
is going to GSA in the actual 
constitution? Well, if you 
look at my actual powers, I 
have the ability to veto. So if 
theres any sort of motion that 
goes through Senate, I have 
the power to veto that motion. 
I think that its important for 
myself to know what is going 
on in the actual Senate meetings. And I think that that has 
been completed from either 
Sangita or myself going to the 
meetings, as well as through 
our conversations in [Executive Committee meetings].
In addition to his constitutional duties, Flittner says 
that he has done considerable work on the platform on 
which he was elected, which 
he claims is more detailed and 
comprehensive than previous 
presidents have been.
The pillars of Flittners 
campaign platform were community building; government 
relations; health and safety; 
transparency; and previous 
initiatives. Speci?c initiatives 
included promoting healthy 
eating; introducing a campus 
diversity honors program; 
revamping Parents Weekend; increasing governmental 
transparency; evaluating and 
improving escort and shuttle 
services; developing a cab 
service for Carnegie Mellon 
students, called Tartan Taxi; 
and introducing Friday Frenzies, a series of small campus 
celebrations on the four Fridays leading up to Carnival.
Flittner asserts that he succeeded entirely at some of the 
intitiatives, such as Friday 
Frenzies and healthy eating. 
The ?rst Friday Frenzy occurred last Friday, and two 
more are scheduled to take 
place this week and next. 
Flittner said that other initiatives, such as the overhaul of 
Parents Weekend, were accomplished independently by 
the university administration 
or other bodies. In those cases, Flittner said that he lent 
support where possible.
In the cases of the diversity 
honors program and the Tartan Taxi, Flittner said that he 
simply discovered, after working to put them into place, 
that they were not possible. 
Tartan Taxi, he said, was a 
program similar to those that 
other universities have implemented. But for legal reasons, 
he discovered that Carnegie 
Mellon could not implement 
its own cab system, and no 
Pittsburgh cab companies 
were interested in the project.
Similarly, Flittner said that 
the only way to implement 
the diversity honors program 
would have been to make it a 
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
The search to replace 
University President Jared L. 
Cohon, who will be stepping 
down on June 30, 2013, is 
under way.
Ray Lane, the chairman of 
Carnegie Mellons Board of 
Trustees, named the of?cial 
search committee of 17 members in a letter published on 
the universitys website last 
February. The committee will 
be directed by Jim Rohr, the 
chairman and CEO of PNC 
Financial Services Group and 
chair of the boards Nominating and Governance Committee.
This committee includes 
eight university trustees and 
eight faculty members in addition to Rohr. The recommendation from this committee will be submitted to the 
Board of Trustees for the selection of Carnegie Mellons 
next president. 
Materials science and engineering professor Anthony 
Rollett is a leader of the presidential search committee. He 
described his role as working with basically everybody 
in the university to try to 
identify candidates.
In a Feb. 12 message, Lane 
wrote, While the committee, 
aided by a search ?rm, will 
lead the process and ultimately recommend a candidate to 
the board, every member of 
the university community  
students, alumni, faculty and 
staff  will have the opportunity to participate and provide input.
The of?cial search timeline consists of three phases: 
the quiet phase, the public 
phase, and the ?nal phase.
The quiet phase takes 
place from February to August. It consists of the proper 
formation and establishment of a search committee, 
as well as the inclusion of a 
?rm to assist in the search. 
The public phase will take 
place from September 2012 
to spring 2013, during which 
candidates will be sought and 
narrowed down to a small 
list. The ?nal phase, scheduled for the spring of 2013, is 
when the ?nal group of candidates will be interviewed 
and the search committee 
will make its recommendation.
The of?cial announcement of Carnegie Mellons 
new president is expected to 
occur before the end of the 
spring 2013 semester.
In order to make the university community aware of 
the happenings surrounding 
the presidential search, and 
to gather public opinion on 
See TRAYVON, A3
Nicole Hamilton/Comics Editor
Hundreds of Pittsburghers and local students surrounded the Fence on 
Monday at a rally seeking justice for slain 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
Trayvon Martin rally draws crowdCampus looks for 
Cohon successor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Operations Manager
The ?ve student body presidential candidates debated 
and discussed their campaign 
and positions last Monday in 
McConomy Auditorium. The 
debate was held by the Elections Board and The Tartan; 
WRCT and cmuTV sponsored 
and broadcast the debates.
Most of the debate questions focused on individual 
tickets and their platforms. 
For example, Amy Quispe, 
a junior computer science 
and math double major, was 
asked to explain her open 
data position.
I promised that we would 
have APIs for the school data. 
That means that we want to 
have data sets open in a way 
such that its easy for people 
to interface with that data 
and to use it, Quispe said. 
Ive worked on this problem 
from a tech perspective, but 
Ive realized that its not just a 
technical problem; its a policy problem. I hope that from 
the talk we can start to in?uence administrators to open 
up data sets so that developers, but also other people, can 
use these data sets to create 
new things and to solve the 
problems in their surroundings.
Neither junior information 
systems and human-computer interaction double major 
Brian Groudan nor his running mate, junior decision science and psychology double 
major Amanda Ho Sang, has 
held any student government 
position. They were asked 
how they would compensate 
for their lack of experience, 
and how their roles in other 
organizations helped them.
We do have experience 
through other organizations. 
I dont think thats the biggest drawback, Groudan 
said. Through my leadership 
in my fraternity, I ran a huge 
PR game that re-branded 
us.... Amanda and I have had 
a number of leadership positions ... and so I think that we 
have the leadership experience that it takes to be in this 
position. And when you think 
about what the purpose of the 
student government is, its to 
be the voice of the people.... 
Well be strategically picking 
our cabinet and the people 
that we work with to make 
sure that they complement 
our strengths and our weaknesses.
Senior materials science 
and engineering and biomedical engineering double major 
Matthew Biegler said that he 
was not in the election to win, 
but rather to send a message. 
Biegler thinks the university 
should incentivize the student body president to ensure 
that he or she accomplishes 
goals and initiatives.
[Getting elected is] my 
worst nightmare, Biegler 
said. Honestly, I think Ive 
heard a lot of compelling arguments from people saying 
yes and no. At this point, Im 
hoping Im not elected. But if 
I am, Im not sure what Ill do 
 Ill have to cross that bridge 
when I get there.
Junior information systems major Seth Vargo mentioned that the university is 
currently employing new fees 
and cuts on alumni donations, speci?cally mentioning 
the central administration 
fee which was introduced last 
year. The fee began, Vargo 
said, at about 4 percent, and 
will peak at 9.6 percent.
I think its time that we 
start asking the university 
to give back, Vargo said. If 
theyre going to start levying 10 percent taxes, I feel 
like we have another Boston 
Tea Party on our hands. And 
I think that, as students, its 
our responsibility to be civil, 
not hostile, like the Boston 
Tea Party, and start asking the 
Five SBP candidates debateJake Flittner speaks out
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
The ?ve candidates for student body president met on Monday to 
debate and explain their platforms.
Kate Groschner/Staff
Jake Flittner maintains that he has ful?lled his constitutional duties.
See SEARCH, A3
See DEBATE, A3
See FLITTNER, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 2, 2012
Hans Vetter Memorial 
Lecture: Peter 
Stutchbury
Monday at 6 p.m. 
Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater
Peter Stutchbury will 
present a history of design 
thinking, in?uences, and 
outcomes. Stutchbury is the 
head of Peter Stutchbury Architecture, an architectural 
?rm based in Sydney, Australia. The ?rm has won 41 
Royal Australian Institute of 
Architects awards, and its 
work has been exhibited internationally, including two 
exhibitions at the Venice Architecture Biennale. Stutchbury and his ?rm focus on 
sustainability in their design.
William C. Weldon
Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. 
Mellon Auditorium
William C. Weldon, the 
chairman of the board and 
CEO of Johnson & Johnson, 
will speak about his experiences in business. He is also 
a member of the board of directors of JPMorgan Chase & 
Co. Weldon also serves on the 
Liberty Science Center Chairmans Advisory Council, and 
is a member of the board of 
trustees for Quinnipiac University.
Umut A. Acar
Wednesday at 1 p.m. 
Gates Hillman Complex 
6501
Umut A. Acar, a researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Software Systems, 
will deliver a lecture titled 
Greedy Sharing: Scheduling on Weakly Consistent 
Memory. 
Acar will present the recent unpublished results of 
his and his collaborators 
work on greedy sharing, a 
new algorithm for load balancing on processors with 
weakly consistent memory.
The algorithm relies on 
work-sharing, which results 
in synchronization. Acar will 
present experiments which 
show that the algorithm is 
practical, and discuss future 
research directions.
Philosophy Colloquium: 
Branden Fitelson
Thursday at 4:45 p.m. 
Baker Hall A53
Branden Fitelson, a professor of philosophy at Rutgers University, will deliver 
a lecture titled Accuracy, 
Coherence, and Evidence, 
based on his and his collaborators work. 
Fitelson will brie?y discuss the traditionally accepted accuracy, coherence, and 
evidentiary norms for full 
belief, as well as the Ramseystyle reasoning that one 
should be skeptical of analogous norms for partial belief. 
He will then describe alternative accuracy and coherency norms for partial belief, 
and the ways in which analogous norms for full belief lead 
to a new coherence norm that 
is weaker than deductive consistency.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
In the article Greek Sing shines with amusing performances (Pillbox, March 26), Jake Yosafat was incorrectly reported as having served as his house Greek Sing 
chair. He has never held said position.
In the article Motion to impeach SBP Flittner fails 
(News, March 26), Seth Vargo was incorrectly identi?ed 
as a senior. Vargo is a junior.
In the article Record ?ve tickets run for SBP, SBVP 
(News, March 26), Seth Vargo and Joe Fricks majors 
were switched. Vargo is an information systems major 
and Frick is an economics major.
In the article Record ?ve tickets run for SBP, SBVP 
(News, March 26), the Boston Red Sox were incorrectly 
referred to as the Boston Red Socks.
The article Cosplayers invade Downtown (Pillbox, 
March 26), contains incorrect information about the 
founding of Tekkoshocon. The convention was founded 
in 2003 by a University of Pittsburgh alumnus.
The article Statistically Speaking (News, March 
26), incorrectly states that the Fences caps are 20 inches 
in circumference. The caps have a diameter of 20 inches.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry.
Lecture Preview
Ray LaHood, the U.S. 
secretary of transportation, 
has named Carnegie Mellon electrical and computer 
engineering professor Raj 
Rajkumar to the Intelligent 
Systems Program Advisory 
Committee (ITSPAC).
This is a great honor 
for me as my research team 
works to develop and implement technologies for improving the safety and ef?ciency of transportation, 
Rajkumar said in a university 
press release.
ITSPAC advises the secretary of transportation on the 
study and development of intelligent U.S. transportation 
systems. 
Members of the committee make recommendations 
about which proposed areas 
of intelligent systems research should be funded and 
by whom.
Rajkumar is an expert in 
smart systems for vehicles 
and highways. He is currently doing work in vehicular information technologies, autonomous vehicles that drive 
themselves, and vehicular 
networks.
State-of-the-art computing and communication 
technologies can signi?cantly 
advance the safety and ef?ciency of transportation, 
since extending the physical 
infrastructure is both expensive and limited by existing 
road layouts, Rajkumar said 
in the press release.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
The National Science 
Foundation has awarded 
Carnegie Mellon mechanical 
engineering professor Jonathan Malen an Early Career 
Development Award. 
The award will give Malen 
$400,000 over the next ?ve 
years to study organic-inorganic hybrid materials. These 
materials combine the properties of superconductors 
with the scalability of plastics. Malens research uses 
laser-based technologies to 
study photon transport.
Im extremely pleased 
with this award because it 
will fuel my experimental 
studies of how energy in the 
form of heat is transferred 
through organic-inorganic 
hybrid materials, Malen said 
in a university press release. 
This is not Malens ?rst 
research award. Malen previously received the Air Force 
Of?ce of Scienti?c Research 
Young Investigator Award. In 
2011, Malen received the Petroleum Research Fund Doctoral New Investigator Award 
from the American Chemical 
Society.
In addition to his work 
with organic-inorganic hybrid materials, Malen is currently working on a PhononSimulator, an educational 
initiative to teach the origins 
of heat transfer in Pittsburgh 
public schools.
The local focus will be 
under-represented pre-college students from PPS as 
well as students at Carnegie 
Mellon, Malen said in the 
press release.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Secretary of Transportation names professor to ITSPAC
Professor awarded grant for study of hybrid materials
FEATURE PHOTO
First Friday Frenzy takes place on Cut
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
71 / 44
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
59 / 37
THURSDAY
High / Low
55 / 34
FRIDAY
High / Low
56 / 38
SATURDAY
High / Low
61 / 45
Alcohol Amnesty
March 25, 2012
University Police responded to Roselawn Apartments 
for a report of an intoxicated 
female. Upon arrival, Carnegie Mellon EMS and Pittsburgh EMS checked the student; she was taken to the 
hospital via ambulance. No 
citations were issued because 
the alcohol amnesty policy applied.
DUI
March 25, 2012
University Police spotted 
a motor vehicle accident 
on Forbes Avenue near the 
University Center turnaround. 
The vehicle struck a curb and 
blew out its front tire. Of?cers 
initiated a traf?c stop and 
determined that the driver 
was under the in?uence of 
alcohol. The driver will be 
charged by summons.
Disorderly Conduct
March 26, 2012
University Police were 
called to the fraternity quad 
for a report that a black male, 
wearing a black and white 
checkered hat, had urinated 
on the exterior doors of Alpha Chi Omega. This incident 
was not reported until an 
hour after it had happened, so 
the suspect was no longer on 
scene. This case is still under 
investigation.
Theft
March 27, 2012
Members of Alpha Epsilon 
Pi fraternity reported that 
an unknown person stole a 
Dewalt Miter saw from their 
front porch between 8:30 p.m. 
and midnight. The saw is valued at $600. This incident is 
under investigation.
Theft
March 28, 2012
A student reported that she 
left her cell phone at Skibo 
Caf at approximately 12:30 
a.m. She returned to see if 
anyone had turned her cell 
phone in and was told that 
a manager had found it and 
placed it behind the counter, but another female had 
claimed it almost immediately 
afterward. This case is under 
investigation.
Alcohol Amnesty
March 30, 2012
University Police responded to a Morewood Gardens Etower restroom for a report of 
an intoxicated female. Upon 
arrival, Carnegie Mellon EMS 
checked the student, and she 
was allowed to return to her 
room in the care of a friend. 
No citations were issued because the alcohol amnesty 
policy applied.
Auto Theft
March 30, 2012
A student reported to University Police that she had 
parked her vehicle in the 
lower part of the Morewood 
parking lot at 8:30 p.m. She 
stated that when she returned 
at 1:00 a.m., her vehicle was 
gone. This incident is under 
investigation.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Student Body President Jake Flittners initiative came to fruition last Friday afternoon when the ?rst Friday Frenzy was held on the Cut. Students 
were offered free chips and drinks and had a chance to socialize with each other and meet members of the student government executive branch.
Statistically Speaking
Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old African-American boy, 
was shot and killed in Sanford, Fl. on Feb. 26. His shooter was licensed to carry a ?rearm, though he was encouraged not to as a neighborhood watch chief. Heres 
a look at the control and use of ?rearms in Florida and 
across the United States:
26%
47%
The percentage of American households that own a gun
35%
The percentage increase in gun-related fatalities in Florida from 
1999 to 2009
746,430
The number of active gun licenses in Florida
Compiled by 
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY
Sources: Centers for Disease Control, 
www.justfacts.com, and
www.gallup.com
Source: www.weather.com
The percentage of Americans who believed handguns should be 
banned in 2011
Kate Groschner/Staff

---------------------------------------------------

April 2, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
VP candidates debate policy
course, which he feels would 
have violated the spirit of 
what he and Sharma were trying to achieve. Sometimes, he 
said, you just dont know what 
will work until you try.
Platforms are a promise to 
work on issues. A lot of these 
issues that you come up with, 
its not a question of, You 
should have known that you 
cant do this. You dont know 
until you really start getting 
into that process. After a lot 
of work, thats when you ?nd 
out this can work or this cant 
work.... And I think that want 
to try, want to have happen, 
is maybe where theres a miscommunication between candidates and the student body, 
where somebody thinks, If I 
vote for Jake, there will be a 
Tartan Taxi. Thats not what 
we said. It was, We want to try 
to have a Tartan Taxi, so were 
going to work on trying to get 
it. Will it happen? I cant tell 
you for sure, because I havent 
started working on the project. 
Despite the work that 
Flittner says he and Sharma 
have done during their term, 
there is one area of his platform in which he admits failure: transparency. [Student 
government transparency] is 
one thing I dont think that 
weve done to where wed like 
to. Ill admit that. We put it as 
a lower priority ... because our 
main focus was trying to get 
initiatives done. Thats kind 
of how we focused. And in the 
process, we made it so that we 
werent as transparent as wed 
like to be. We pretty much just 
followed previous precedents 
that were put in front of us. 
And I think this is something 
that, when leaving of?ce, 
were really going to push to 
other future presidents that 
this is something that should 
be made a high priority.
In fact, Flittner hopes that 
increased transparency will be 
one of the byproducts of the 
motion to impeach him. Currently, he said, each president 
improves in small ways on the 
job that previous presidents 
did. But, Flittner said, the 
impeachment process has allowed for student government 
to have a conversation about 
what the role of the president 
should be. His hope is that the 
next president will be able to 
improve in big ways because 
of that conversation.
 He pointed to one constitutional duty of the president 
that he believes to be the most 
important: Facilitate representation of the student body 
throughout Carnegie Mellon Universitys Pittsburgh 
campus. This is the line that 
Flittner says is responsible for 
the way that the role of the 
president develops.
It is abstract, Flittner 
said. Its designed to be that 
way ... So that you can have 
some ?uidity in your actual 
presidents. So you can have 
different styles of presidents.
Ideally, Flittner said, future 
presidents will be transparent with the student body. In 
the best of all possible worlds, 
the president would speak directly with the student body 
on a regular basis, to get ideas 
from them and to share what 
he or she has been doing. But 
in order for future presidents 
to really communicate with 
the student body, Flittner says 
that the student body has to 
change as well.
I would like to see a lot 
more student body support, 
Flittner said. Right now, for 
instance, if I try to have a town 
hall, the town halls that Ive 
tried to have, you get a few 
people show up.... When I held 
my town halls, I had 20 people 
at a town hall, and that was a 
success. Because students are 
so busy here.... So if you have 
a more open-dialogue culture, 
I think it would allow for an 
ideal president to be able to really be out there in the campus 
community, really be out there 
having larger town halls, having larger addresses, having 
larger open communication 
with all of campus.
As for how to create such a 
culture, Flittner said that the 
changes have already started 
to happen. The key, he said, 
is patience. I think its something that has been developing. Its a process. You cant 
just ?ip a switch. You just have 
to slowly develop your community and develop your relationship with that community 
by doing projects and just trying to make campus better.
pens is we look to President 
Barack Obama. We look to the 
feds and say, Please do something, and you completely 
overlook the local community 
where you can actually see an 
impact. You can feel it. When 
my city councilwoman wasnt 
doing what I wanted her to 
do, I put her out!
Voter registration forms 
were available at tables beside the rally.
Ive been in Maryland 
for the last ?ve years, but Im 
moving back to Pittsburgh, so 
I need to register, said James 
Cole, a Morgan State University student who registered at 
the rally. I felt I needed to do 
this. I felt like they were talking to me, even though I just 
got back in town. It was a very 
informative protest.
I know in the black community, we feel like our vote 
dont count, said rally-goer 
Brandy Mangham. Because 
we see all these laws that are 
so against us. Its basically 
institutionalized racism.... 
I feel like Im more empowered now. I can go back, I can 
share the information that I 
heard from the speakers that 
presented today, and I can 
tell people that we can make 
a difference. We cannot allow things like this to keep 
on happening when it is ultimately our ability to vote that 
can prevent it.
Other speakers emphasized the importance of combating racism on a daily basis.
 Is this man a monster? 
is the question I ask, said the 
second speaker, sophomore 
information systems major 
Christopher Lindsay. No. 
Racist? Potentially, yeah. But 
no more than me or any one 
of us. Im just as wrong when I 
joke about my Hispanic brothers being illegal or assume my 
Asian brothers know karate. 
Im just as wrong when I assume a white of?cer is only 
following me or pulling up 
beside me because Im black. 
In this way, Im no better than 
George Zimmerman. Martin 
Luther King Jr. once said, Injustice anywhere is a threat 
to justice everywhere. If we 
desire to demand justice for 
Trayvon, we all must exercise 
justice on a personal level.
Business and public policy 
and management dual masters student Ricky Burgess, 
the president of the BGSO, 
spoke last. 
In order to break the cycle 
of carnage, we must change 
our culture, Burgess said. 
First, we must remember, 
as Chris said, we are George 
Zimmerman too. Fundamentally, Trayvons death wasnt 
about unjust laws or poor policing. It was about fear. Like 
George Zimmerman, we too 
often fear those who do not 
look, talk, act, or speak the 
way we do. We may not be 
killing innocent men in cold 
blood, but every day, we take 
small actions that perpetuate 
the culture that led to Trayvons death.... Together, let us 
honor Trayvons legacy by creating a world where he could 
have lived.
what Carnegie Mellon should 
look for in a new president, 
a series of public forums was 
held last week.
The student town hall was 
opened by Student Body President Jake Flittner, a senior 
mechanical engineering and 
engineering and public policy 
double major. Flittner said 
that the overall purpose of 
this town hall is to gather information for a white paper ... 
and also to help the presidential search committee to ?nd 
aspects and characteristics for 
the next president.
The white paper will be 
drafted by the faculty committee and then used to create 
a job statement and description for potential candidates.
Cohon spoke at both the 
student and faculty town 
halls, but was unable to attend the staff forum. Rohr 
spoke in his stead.
Adam Rauf, the president 
of Staff Council, opened the 
staff forum. 
We as the staff members 
are kind of like the troops on 
the ground, so to speak. We 
know all the interworking 
of the university. Thats why 
its so critical for us to make 
an impact, Rauf said in his 
opening address.
Each of the three forums 
followed the same format: After a brief presentation on the 
changes in Carnegie Mellon 
during Cohons tenure, the 
audience contributed questions about and hopes for the 
next president.
Students called for a president who pays attention to research, is socially responsible, 
continues to improve student 
life, maintains ?nancial security, and balances science and 
the arts within Carnegie Mellon. 
When expressing their 
thoughts on the traits that 
should be held by the new 
Carnegie Mellon president, 
responses focused on approachability and an understanding of what one student 
dubbed the Carnegie Mellon 
spirit.
At the staff meeting, audience members expressed 
concerns that some staff 
members, especially lowerpaid employees, felt like they 
were struggling ?nancially. 
Others pointed out that Carnegie Mellon was shy as an 
institution, stating that the 
next president needed to be a 
cheerleader in chief.
The faculty forum was 
opened by Irene Fonseca, 
a member of the presidential search committee, stating that the town hall was to 
construct a shared vision of 
the characteristics ... wed like 
to see in the next president. 
The faculty delivered responses focused on limiting 
restrictions and bureaucracy 
within the university. They 
also sought a president who 
would better interdepartmental relations.
Mathematics professor 
John Mackey described his vision for the next president by 
saying, We need a very aggressive, yet thoughtful person.... Our danger is becoming complacent.
Rollett said that no preference is being stated or discussed as to whether the 
next president would come 
from within the university 
community. Regardless, one 
staff member did request that 
the next president come from 
outside of Carnegie Mellon. 
In addition, Rollett encouraged students to express 
their suggestions regarding 
the search either on the of?-
cial website or by ?nding individuals related to the presidential search, whose names 
can be found online.
A forum for alumni will be 
held during Spring Carnival.
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
The candidates for Vice 
President for Organizations 
(VPO) and Vice President 
for Finance (VPF) debated in 
Rashid Auditorium last Tuesday. The debates, which were 
more lightly attended than 
Mondays student body president and vice president debates, were held by the Elections Board and The Tartan. 
WRCT and cmuTV sponsored 
and broadcast the debates.
Junior lighting design major and longtime member of 
student government Jon Mark 
is running unopposed in the 
race for the position of VPF. I 
understand that, pending the 
greatest write-in campaign 
in history, this is pretty much 
in the bag for me, but I feel I 
should be held to the same 
standards as other politicians, Mark said.
The key points Mark made 
in his platform were a 20 percent increase in the student 
activities fee, raising it from 
$95 to about $114, and encouraging resource sharing 
between similar clubs when 
merging is not possible. He 
also said that he would like 
to provide audits to any club 
that makes a reasonable request, and make the value 
and power of the position of 
VPF more readily apparent so 
the position may attract future contenders.
After Mark ?nished answering audience questions, 
sophomore electric and computer engineering major 
Alyssa Danesh and sophomore business administration 
and decision science double 
major Rishi Patel took the 
stage. Danesh and Patel are 
campaigning for the position of VPO, a position within 
student government which 
works alongside the VPF to 
manage student organizations on campus.
We dont have enough 
money or space, Patel said in 
his opening statement. Raising the [student activities fee] 
should be a last resort. Patel 
believes that before raising 
the fee, three actions need to 
be taken by the VPO: Encouraging campus organizations 
to appeal to their alumni for 
additional funds; promoting 
collaboration between related 
organizations through more 
meetings; and increasing ef?ciency by making students 
aware of CollegiateLink, a 
service which will soon replace OrgTracker and BudgetTracker.
Danesh said her focus as 
VPO would be on creating 
a third tier of organizations 
with of?cial campus recognition but no funding, and creating a wiki with information 
on the forms needed to start 
and run a campus organization. She said that she would 
make clarity the overall goal 
of her term. Danesh cited her 
experience as the Committee 
on Student Organizations 
chair of recognition this past 
term.
Voting for the VPO and 
VPF positions began on Saturday and will close on Tuesday.
university to give back to us.
Vargo said that a way the 
university could give back was 
to pay for the security cost of 
Carnival, such as paying for 
the police of?cers. This, Vargo 
said, would severely cut the 
costs students have to pay.
As the chair of Undergraduate Student Senate, junior 
economics and statistics and 
decision science double major 
Will Weiner has been highly 
involved with transportation.
This depends on what 
happens with Port Authority. 
My biggest thing is reaction 
area, Weiner said, speaking on how he would stay 
involved in the issue. My 
involvement here has been 
making sure that what I feel 
are the vital services to the 
university stay here.... I have 
established the connections 
to make sure that stuff like 
the buses stay intact.... That 
being said, if everything goes 
?ne, the busses are safe, then 
its up to us to go to our feedback collection to see what 
the people want.
The audience also had the 
chance to ask questions. One 
audience member asked for 
each ticket to name three organizations neither of them 
had been in, and one that 
currently didnt exist but that 
they wished to see made.
None of them mentioned 
media organizations. That 
was something that was interesting to me, said Matthew 
Baron, a sophomore electrical and computer engineering 
and Hispanic studies double 
major.
I think that [the debate is] 
the same kind of thing every 
year, with varying experience 
amongst candidates, said 
Turi Alcoser, a senior materials science and engineering major. If experience will 
be the deciding factor, then 
thats not enough. But I still 
think they did well and I dont 
have anything against them.
Voting opened on Saturday and will close on Tuesday.
FLITTNER, from A1
DEBATE, from A1TRAYVON, from A1
SEARCH, from A1
Flittner opens up about role of student body president
Rally urges civic actionSBP candidates vie for votes
Forums discuss new leader

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
WILL PENMAN
Staffwriter
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ALLISON COSBY
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
COURTNEY WITTEKIND *
Contributing Editor
GREG HANNEMAN
Contributing Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Contributing Editor
CELIA LUDWINSKI
Contributing Editor
STACEY CHIN
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL KAHN
Contributing Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Asst. Pillbox Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Rachel Bullen, Stephanie Blotner, Connie 
Chan, Hannah Dellabella, Nicole Lee, 
Samantha Landen, Sage Po, Michael Setzer, 
Stephanie Stern, Laura Stiles
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
A4  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 2, 2012
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
SBP, SBVP candidates tout feasible campaign goals
BGSO should be applauded for Trayvon Martin rally
For the past two years, The Tartan 
has refrained from endorsing a candidate for student body president. 
This year, because we are not entirely supportive of any one platform, we 
choose to do the same. There is an 
unprecedented number of presidential candidates running, and each 
ticket has certain ideas that sound 
relevant and feasible. We review 
each ticket and their ideas below.
Quispe and Wade
Presidential candidate Amy 
Quispe and vice presidential candidate Bryan Wade seem primarily concerned with their Open Data 
initiative and the reformation of the 
Committee on Student Organizations (CoSO) into a two-tiered process. The idea to reform CoSO in a 
way that separates student organization recognition and JFC funding 
may result in the creation of a lot 
of similar clubs, thus forcing these 
similar organizations to ?ght for 
members.
The Open Data initiative is a realistic goal; its focus is on opening 
up more opportunities and tools for 
students to be creative and approach 
community problems. This initiative 
could have an immediate effect on 
the entirety of campus, not just those 
involved in student organizations.
Weiner and Dudley
Presidential candidate Will Weiner and vice presidential candidate 
Meela Dudley have a plethora of 
initiatives, with a majority of them 
falling under the categories of public relations or event attendance. 
Public relations and greater visibility 
on campus can easily be introduced, 
and could be a great success, if the 
candidates continue to publicize 
and update their website as well as 
advertise in more physical ways on 
campus.
The initiatives geared towards 
event attendance, such as town hall 
meetings, attempt to address the 
more intangible problem of apathy 
in the student body. There is no cut 
and dry solution to this problem, and 
the success of the initiatives created 
to address it depend on increased 
visibility, event interest, timing, and 
community collaboration.
Vargo and Frick
Presidential candidate Seth Vargo 
and vice presidential candidate Joe 
Frick are running on a platform 
geared towards unifying what they 
see as a divided campus. Their ideas 
to extend DineX to include more 
off-campus locations and make Entropy+ accept meal blocks are interesting ones.
The idea to secure additional 
contributions from the university for 
campus-wide events like Spring Carnival seems to be a well-thought-out 
goal. Especially in the case of Carnival, an excellent public relations and 
alumni event, it seems that it would 
behoove the university to invest in 
student events in terms of advertising and in terms of donations.
Groudan and Ho Sang
Presidential candidate Brian 
Groudan and vice presidential candidate Amanda Ho Sang are also promoting a diverse set of initiatives in 
their platform.
Some, like the transformation of 
the space underneath the Pausch 
bridge into a recreational area and 
the increase in outdoor seating, 
seem doable. Others initiatives, like 
the airport shuttle, would be extremely dif?cult to accomplish and 
are already being addressed (or, in 
the case of the shuttle, will be addressed if the 28X bus is cut) by the 
university.
Beigler and Friedman
Presidential candidate Matthew 
Biegler and vice presidential candidate Amy Friedman ran on a scattered platform, admitted by Biegler 
to be a joke campaign. The campaign 
critiques the effectiveness and ef?-
ciency of student government.
We are glad that all candidates 
stressed a need to increase visibility 
of student government initiatives on 
campus and emphasized collaboration within the community to accomplish their goals. 
We are hopeful that  whichever 
ticket is elected  they will focus on 
solving the most prevalent problems 
on campus, set realistic and concrete 
goals, and above all continue to increase communication and visibility 
on campus.
Trayvon Martin, an AfricanAmerican teenager in Florida, was 
shot and killed unarmed last month 
by George Zimmerman, a man whose 
mother is from Peru and whose father is white. Zimmerman claims 
self-defense; Martins family argues 
it was a racially motivated murder. 
To make matters more complicated, 
Zimmerman was not arrested after 
the incident and still remains free 
today. 
This gives the impression to many 
that local government either didnt 
care or didnt do its job in an unbiased manner.
We support investigation into 
Martins death and protests to inspire 
police reform and racial equality. We 
especially support Carnegie Mellons participation in the Rally for 
Justice for Trayvon Martin protest 
at the Fence last Monday, sponsored 
by Carnegie Mellons Black Graduate 
Student Organization.
The rally was a great example of 
ability of the Carnegie Mellon community to come together in a show 
of activism. Educational institutions 
are often instrumental in fostering 
ideas and movements, and university settings are an apt practice ground 
for the movements to make policy 
changes.
The protest at the Fence was well 
attended, primarily by non-Carnegie 
Mellon students. 
However, it may make students 
reconsider Carnegie Mellons role in 
shaping local response to national 
controversies. Pittsburghs racial 
history is not spotless; it involves 
continuing deep rejection, fear, 
and avoidance of other races. We 
should actively promote interracial 
relations.
We should take Martins death 
as an opportunity to help shape our 
world to prevent future tragedies, as 
well as to foster community activism 
on campus.
Sanctions against Iran are mostly ineffective
DANIEL COHANPOUR 
President Barack Obama announced further oil sanctions on 
Iran last Saturday, hoping to put a 
dent in Irans ever-present nuclear 
program. 
There is a suf?cient supply of 
petroleum and petroleum products 
from countries other than Iran to 
permit a signi?cant reduction in the 
volume of petroleum and petroleum 
products purchased from Iran by or 
through foreign ?nancial institutions, Obama said. The sanctions 
would be implemented in three 
months and would show their effects a few months later.
What Obama failed to mention, 
however, is the historical lack of success of sanctions on Iran. 
Since the 1920s, sanctions led by 
the United Nations on the Iranian 
economy have been minimally effective. The objective of chipping away 
at Irans nuclear facilities is far from 
being reached.
Irans President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad stated his intentions in 
2008 to wipe Israel off the map if 
Iran were to acquire nuclear weapons. Israel and the United States 
continually press the notion that 
a nuclear-viable Iran is not just a 
threat to Israel, but a global threat. 
The issue has heated up this year, 
with constant talk about a potential 
Israeli strike on Iranian nuclear facilities in the coming months.
As Israeli journalist Merav Batito 
put it in an article for Ynetnews.com, 
Economic sanctions are a superb 
solution for those who believe in 
the basic principles of democracy, 
such as accountability to ones citizens, the holding of free elections 
and guaranteeing the basic right 
of human beings to make a living, 
speak up, or just express their views 
openly. The Islamic Republic of 
Iran is not that kind of state and will 
not react to further sanctions. All 
past sanctions on Iran have proven 
to raise oil prices, instead of deteriorating Irans nuclear program. 
There is no sense behind the belief 
that further sanctions, especially at 
the highest point in Irans nuclear 
developments, will work.
The only thing that is missing, in 
this heap of policies and reactions 
to Iranian nuclear advancements, 
is any trust in Israels ability to act. 
We are no longer that same old 
herd being led to the slaughter, as 
was the case in the early part of the 
20th century. We have progressed 
a little since then; we also acquired 
some weapons during that time, 
Israeli journalist Hagai Segal stated 
on Ynetnews.com, in response to 
doubts about Israels ability to effectively attack Iran. Increased belief 
and support in Israels defensive capabilities are more important than 
the historically disproved sanctions 
route.
Diplomatic negotiations have 
never worked with the KhameneiAhmadinejad government, and they 
never will work. Just as Iran has a 
window of opportunity for negotiations, Israel has a window of opportunity for beginning its militaristic 
approach. If Israel wants to impact 
Irans nuclear facilities effectively, 
it needs to do so in the coming 
months.
Nip it in the bud is an appropriate phrase, and whether this comes 
in the form of an Israeli offensive or 
a joint American-allied offensive is 
yet to be seen. 
What is certain, however, is that 
sanctions are passive and have been 
proven ineffective against this type 
of regime.
Daniel Cohanpour (dcohanpo@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
LETTER TO THE EDITORStudent Senate showed commendable efforts
I would like to take a minute to 
respond to the article in last weeks 
Tartan which criticized the Student 
Senate for not commit[ting] to reforming itself, citing the impeachment of the student body president 
as the only supporting evidence. For 
The Tartan to say, The situation 
shows how Student Senate has been 
unable to follow through on initiatives that would bene?t the student 
body, its editorial board is undermining every other initiative Senate 
has completed with great success 
this year.
Examples include: an unprecedented $14,000 allocation from the 
senate operating reserve to AB Concerts, which made this years artist 
selection (Passion Pit) possible; substantial changes to 76-101 (Interpretation and Argument) that will be 
seen next year; a new sound system 
in Kirr Commons; and the overhaul 
of the University Center game room 
that is currently under way. For 
more information, come to a regular 
meeting at 5 p.m. on Thursdays in 
Margaret Morrison 103 for committee reports. They typically last until 
5:20 p.m.
As for the impeachment, if the 
Graduate Student Assembly had 
maintained quorum and the vote 
had been legal, the end result would 
still have been that Senate voted by 
a slight margin not to remove Jake 
from of?ce. 
Regardless of my views, I support the independent thinking of my 
peers, and the open discourse that 
led to that decision.
So instead of criticizing Senate 
for not blindly rubber-stamping the 
removal of an executive of?cer without considering his/her defense, I 
think The Tartan should be commending every elected of?cial who 
took the time to attend the hearing, 
listen to the facts, and reach the 
decision they felt was best. That is 
the job of an elected of?cial, and I 
applaud every Senator for ful?lling their duty to this process with 
aplomb.
Student government has spent 
enough time focusing on this impeachment. It is time to focus our efforts back on other important issues, 
and work with the executive branch 
to end the year on a positive note. 
I look forward to seeing what else 
Jake and Sangita will do with the remaining weeks of the semester.
Jon Mark
Senate Finance Chair
SBVPO Candidate

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Yesterday was April Fools Day. So we asked,
What is your favorite prank to pull on someone?
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma and Jonathan Carreon
April 2, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A5
LETTER TO THE EDITORResponse from SBVP candidate
Trayvon Martin case shows social stigmas have yet to disappear
ZANETA GRANT 
Many people know about Trayvon Martin, the 17-year-old boy who 
was shot and killed in Florida by a 
neighborhood guard named George 
Zimmerman on Feb. 26. Zimmerman 
chased down Martin, who had nothing on him but a bag of Skittles and 
an iced tea, and killed him after the 
boy allegedly begged for his life. Zimmerman wasnt arrested because he 
claims that he felt threatened, which 
allowed him to use excessive force to 
defend himself under Floridas standyour-ground law.
This tragedy has sparked a reaction to the injustice done to a boy 
whose only crime seemed to be 
wearing a hoodie and being AfricanAmerican.
Although it is encouraging that 
many people are outraged by the injustice, the incident raises a deeper 
issue that cannot be overlooked. This 
shooting was a hate crime, not a misunderstanding. 
It was not because of what Martin 
was wearing. It was because he ?t a 
certain pro?le that society identi?es 
as menacing.
According to reports, Martin was 
not sporting any gang tattoos, ?ags, 
or showing any signs of being a menace. He was wearing a hoodie  the 
same kind of hoodie many people buy 
from the Carnegie Mellon bookstore. 
The only other physical factor that 
could have set off an alarm in Zimmermans mind was the boys race. 
Sadly, he ?t the racial pro?le that 
many people associate with crime 
and other negative actions.
Many people agree that this was 
an act of racism. The fact that racism 
is still prominent to such an extent is 
a challenging issue, but there is a far 
more complex problem at hand.
The internal issue behind this 
tragedy is that our society has become blind to many forms of racism. 
Just because segregation is now illegal does not mean that social stigmas 
have disappeared. Yet many people 
claim that racism is no longer an issue in our country. 
Because of this, racism has been 
allowed to root itself in our society 
through peoples mindset toward minorities. Contempt toward another 
race does not have to manifest itself 
in the form of killing, as it did in the 
case of Martin. The negative beliefs 
that people harbor about AfricanAmericans and other minorities are 
apparent in the way people behave 
and talk.
I came across something very disconcerting shortly after the Martin 
incident. There were some angry and 
racist remarks on Twitter due to the 
fact that one of the main characters 
in the movie The Hunger Games was a 
black girl. These harmful comments 
show something very disappointing 
about the beliefs being passed on to 
youths about race. 
These comments suggest that the 
character was somehow inferior to 
their expectations because of her 
race. This subtle kind of racism is 
damaging to the image of minorities and has been allowed to hide 
for too long under the guise of jokes 
and words such as Not to be racist, 
but....
This is the kind of mindset that led 
to Martins death. The fact that something like this still happens shows 
how stereotypes are dangerously potent. Zimmerman saw Martin as inferior because of his appearance. He 
did not think that Martins life was 
valuable, so he shot him on the spot 
without reasonable cause.
America cannot let Martins death 
fade away. It was not self-defense; 
Martin was not going to beat Zimmerman to death with his bag of 
Skittles. 
The fact that Zimmerman was not 
immediately arrested is a slap in the 
face to minorities in America. If there 
is any justice in America, this man 
will be punished for what he did and 
because of his bigotry. 
An incident like this gives our 
youth a chance to uproot racism and 
?ght back against hatred, a chance 
to create a better and more united 
America for posterity.
Zaneta Grant (zcg@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
This letter is a written response 
to The Tartans March 26 Forum 
article titled Dudley should not be 
elected SBVP and the 122 online 
comments it received.
Students, Teachers, Faculty, 
Peers:
First and foremost I would like 
to thank all of you for your unending support this past week.
I have written a response to 
last weeks Tartan article Dudley 
should not be elected SBVP but 
due to certain length restraints involving letters to the editor, I have 
chosen to publish my response 
on Will and mys campaign site, 
www.WeinerDudley2012.com. 
I spent a lot of time on my response and sought out advice from 
many of my peers and advisors, 
and because of this I am of the 
opinion that the letter should only 
be read in its entirety.
I urge all who are interested to 
please visit our campaign site to 
read my response and I thank all of 
the Tartan readers for understanding this decision.
Will and I wish the best to all 
of the candidates running in this 
years election and we look forward to hearing the results.
Meela Dudley
SBVP Candidate
Parents intervention deprives children of life lessons
JACKSON LANE 
According to an article published 
in The Huf?ngton Post, Colorado 
Springs canceled its annual Easter 
Egg Hunt due to too much anticipated parental intervention.
Ideally, kids participating in the 
hunt search around Bancroft Park for 
plastic eggs containing candy while 
parents sit back and watch from behind a gate. In recent years, however, 
parents have broken the rules and 
have started jumping the gate to help 
their children ?nd eggs. 
Since bringing parents into an 
Easter Egg Hunt is like dropping 
an atomic bomb  not only does it 
make things end in seconds, but it 
starts an arms race  the organizers decided to cancel this years hunt, 
much to the dismay of children and 
rule-abiding parents. 
Regardless of whether the hunt 
was canceled or not, interfering 
parents are depriving their children of important lessons and life 
experiences.
I can understand what motivates 
these interfering parents, particularly those of toddlers and smaller kids, 
to break the rules. The Easter Egg 
Hunt itself isnt fair. The older, bigger, and more aggressive kids have 
an advantage over other children, 
and theres a good chance that some 
kids might not get any candy without 
parental intervention. Its not like 
the bigger or more aggressive kids 
deserve the candy more than their 
smaller and more timid peers, so the 
egg hunt is not fair. Nobody knows 
this better, and is more outraged by 
the unfairness, than the parents of 
a child who went home without any 
candy.
If the goal of the egg hunt is just to 
give out free candy to kids, then parents would have good reason to jump 
the fence and grab up the candy. But 
arent there better solutions? If candy 
were the only goal, the best solution 
would be to distribute the candy 
equally amongst all the children and 
cancel the hunt. Or if you wanted to 
keep the hunt, why not have all the 
candy the children ?nd go into a collective pot which would be divided 
evenly at the end amongst all the 
children?
While all of the above might make 
the egg hunt more equitable, even 
the interfering parents at Colorado 
Springs would balk at the idea of a 
collective pot because the hunt and 
its competitive nature is part of the 
towns tradition; preserving such a 
tradition has some value. 
The unfortunate part is that the 
competitive nature of the Easter Egg 
Hunt tradition primarily bene?ts the 
children, and parental intervention 
deprives them of that bene?t.
If nothing else, the hunt teaches 
kids that life isnt always fair and 
that there will be times when you 
try your hardest but you wont succeed. Its obvious now, but for many 
of us when we were younger, it was 
counter-intuitive. Of course, the 
sooner we realized that we would 
never be astronauts or sports stars, 
the sooner we were able to move on 
and tackle the real challenges in life 
we had been ignoring. Hopefully for 
most of us, this moment came long 
before we entered Carnegie Mellon, 
so we didnt have an existential crisis when, even after pulling two allnighters, we didnt earn a good grade 
on an exam. There are no As for effort in life.
By sheltering their kids from failure, the aggressive parents at the 
Easter Egg Hunt at Colorado Springs 
are setting their children up for disappointment and disillusionment 
later in life. And for what, just candy? 
Its not worth it.
Jackson Lane (jlane@cmu.edu) is a 
senior staffwriter for The Tartan.
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Juan Fernandez/Staff
Moni Sallam
ECE
Junior
Elaborate ones, because its 
more of a surprise.
Cherry Meng
ECE
Senior
This one time my friend put 
toothpaste on the white parts of 
the Oreo. I didnt eat it.
Chelsea Motie
General HSS
First-year
Swapping places with my twin 
and messing with belligerent 
customers.
Christine Pak
Psychology and Decision Sciences
Junior
Last year we decided to go into 
our other friends room and post 
this one funny photo everywhere.
Rob Kalkstein
Business Administration
Sophomore
I did the one today where I had 
my roommate call my sister and 
say I was missing.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 2, 2012
SCITECH BRIEFS
Discovery points to new species of human ancestor
A team of paleoanthropologists recently discovered foot bones in Burtele, 
Ethiopia that are 3.4 million 
years old and may point to a 
new species of hominids or 
human ancestors. The only 
other hominid bones found 
from that period belong to the 
specimen Lucy, a collection 
of bones believed to be a close 
relative to modern humans. 
Lucys discovery has provided 
insight into how humans may 
have evolved to have larger 
brain sizes and walk on two 
feet.
The newly found bones 
belong to a hominid from the 
same time period as Lucy, but 
their shape is signi?cantly different. These bones suggest 
that the hominid was bipedal, but also had the ability to 
climb trees.
Source: The Christian Science 
Monitor
Scientists from faster than light experiment resign
Two scientists at the CERN 
Laboratory who reported the 
discovery of particles traveling faster than the speed of 
light resigned this past week. 
Spokesperson of the group 
Antonio Ereditato and scientist Dario Autiero resigned, 
claiming that increasing 
tension within the research 
group was the reason for their 
departures.
In early September, the research group revealed results 
showing neutrinos (neutrally 
charged subatomic particles) 
to be moving faster than the 
speed of light. Their results 
shocked physicists around 
the world by disproving one 
of the fundamental ideas of 
modern physics. Recently, the 
group had reported that their 
earlier result may have been 
due to a malfunctioning clock 
that measured the time of the 
neutrinos journey.
Source: New Scientist 
Team designs tiny robots that will inspect health
A research team based at 
Newcastle University in the 
United Kingdom is currently 
designing a tiny in-body robot 
that will travel through a patients bloodstream to look for 
signs of illness. Scientists are 
modeling the robot after the 
sea lamprey, a parasitic ?sh 
common to the Atlantic ocean 
that senses its environment 
extremely well.
The robot will be less than 
a centimeter in length and 
will be coated with mammalian cells that naturally have 
sensors that respond to light 
and smell. Using the data 
from the sensors, scientists 
will be able to see the inside 
of the human body. The team 
is currently building the individual components of the robot, but hopes that the robot 
will be used on people within 
?ve years.
Source: LiveScience
XUEXIA JIANG
Junior Staffwriter
Sneezing, coughing, and 
itchy eyes bring torment to 
many during what should be 
the joyous coming of spring. 
Allergies, seemingly trivial 
compared to other ailments, 
are one of the biggest public concerns due to the sheer 
number of people that suffer 
from them. 
The speci?c form of allergies that brings sneezing, coughing, and itchy 
eyes is called allergic rhinitis  meaning that it causes 
in?ammation of the mucus 
membranes in the nose. More 
serious allergies can be life 
threatening, such as severe 
food allergies to peanuts and 
crustaceans. Other allergies 
can develop over time in reaction to certain cosmetics and 
food additives.
Allergies are an immune 
system response to antigens, 
or pathogenic particles. The 
immune system responds 
to antigens by producing 
antibodies, the defensive 
proteins that allow the immune system to ?nd invading 
substances. The antigens in 
food are harmless; otherwise 
many people would suffer 
from food toxicity. According 
to the Utrecht Center for Food 
Allergy, when an allergycausing antigen is present in 
the body, immunoglobulin E, 
or IgEs, antibodies that ?ght 
antigens, are produced and 
released.
If an antibody comes in 
contact with its antigen, the 
antibody causes the release 
of factors that result in common allergy symptoms. These 
factors trigger the body to 
begin three basic processes: blood vessels expand to 
increase their permeability which causes in?ammation; stimulation of mucus 
secretion, which is seen as 
a runny nose; and stimulation of nerves, which induces 
sneezing. The ?rst process 
increases blood ?ow to the 
area and allows immune 
cells through the blood vascular walls so they can begin 
to ?ght the expected infection. The latter two processes block incoming particles 
from reaching the cells and 
attempt to physically remove 
the invading species.
One common way of detecting which substances people are allergic to is a radioallergosorbent test (RAST), 
which looks for the presence 
of IgEs against known antigens by injecting the antigens into the body. Another 
technique is a skin prick test, 
which exposes patients to a 
variety of antigens; the doctor examines the prick site to 
analyze redness and swelling 
in the area. However, these 
tests have low accuracy. Just 
because IgEs are present in a 
patient doesnt mean that patients will develop a clinical 
response upon exposure; redness and swelling are highly 
subjective and are dif?cult to 
measure.
According to the Utrecht 
Center, a double blind 
placebo-controlled food challenge is the best test despite 
its high cost. The test involves 
having patients consume 
foods that may or may not 
contain various antigens in 
various concentrations; both 
of these variables are initially 
unknown to both the doctor 
and the patient. These tests, 
however, are not often administered because they take 
several days to complete and 
require specially trained personnel to administer.
The worst possible outcome of any allergic reaction 
is anaphylaxis, or allergic 
shock, which is caused by 
extreme immune responses. 
Blocked or spasmodic air 
ways cause breathing dif?culties. Dangerously low blood 
pressure then leads to unconsciousness and possibly heart 
failure. Less severe symptoms 
are hives or swelling, dizziness, and nausea.
Allergies present a huge 
market for pharmaceutical 
companies. Unlike antibiotics 
for infections, patients never 
stop taking allergy treatments, which allows for continuous revenue. In addition, 
according to the Asthma and 
Allergy Foundation of America, allergies in the United 
States appear to be increasing. During every exposure 
to foreign particles, the body 
will make antibodies, making 
it increasingly important to 
examine the nature of products we use and are exposed 
to.
HOW THINGS WORKInner workings of allergies
Juan Fernanadez/Staff
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
Last week, after ?nishing 
her quantum physics exam, 
Ashley Disbrow moved on to 
her next task of the day: working towards a better understanding of stars, galaxies, and 
the origins of the universe.
Disbrow, a sophomore in 
the physics department, is 
currently working on a project analyzing redshift distributions of quasars in the 
universe from data collected 
at the Apache Point Observatory in Sunspot, N.M. In other 
words, she is determining the 
positions of thousands of luminous, highly energetic galaxies relative to each other. 
A better understanding 
of this kind of data can help 
scientists draw more concise 
conclusions about the origins 
of the universe. Disbrows 
work is supervised by Shirley 
Ho, an assistant professor of 
physics.
Disbrow is passionate 
about physics and cosmology, 
and explained that the continuous explorations in these 
?elds have come to de?ne part 
of who she is today.
Ive always had hobbies 
in astronomy through middle 
and high school, Disbrow 
said. I wanted to pursue that 
as a major.... I thought that 
would be a great thing to do 
for my job in the future.
She recalled her time as 
an eighth grader running 
through mission simulations 
at Space Camp in Huntsville, 
Ala. She pointed out that after 
the experience, she decided 
she wanted to be an astronaut. This interest ultimately 
led to Disbrows current position as an undergraduate 
majoring in and researching 
physics at Carnegie Mellon.
So what does a typical day 
in the ?eld look like for this researcher?
When I go to work, I normally just log off my Windows 
partition and pull up Linux, 
Disbrow said. I open a terminal and I type. Theres a lot of 
programming involved, especially in IDL, which is the programming language Ive been 
using.
IDL, or Interactive Data 
Language, is a data analysis 
programming language used 
often in the astronomy and 
cosmology ?elds. While picking up the language was initially a dif?cult task for Disbrow, constant development 
in this environment helped 
her learn the ropes.
A lot of the data that I produce goes into the algorithms 
written by the post-docs that 
Im working with, Disbrow 
said. Theyll sort of include it 
in the simulations or the models that theyre making. Plus 
they helped me program in 
IDL, so that was good.
In addition to the Carnegie 
Mellon physicists she collaborates with, Disbrow also gets 
constant exposure to the larger scienti?c body around the 
?eld of physics.
Ive gotten to meet a lot 
of really interesting people 
through this research, Disbrow said. The Cosmology 
Department has weekly seminars all planned out between 
Carnegie Mellon and [the University of Pittsburgh]. Theyll 
?y someone in from out of 
town [to speak]. So Ive gotten to meet some cool people 
involved in physics from different universities around the 
country.
Excluding research, Disbrow is taking 41 units of 
classes this semester and explained that balancing classes 
with her research is no easy 
task.
It can be a struggle, she 
said. I think that the best way 
to tackle it is to manage your 
time really ef?ciently.
Aside from her research 
and academic schedule, Disbrow is also involved in multiple other extracurricular activities. She is on the Carnegie 
Mellon water polo team, and 
just recently picked up an interesting hobby.
Ive taken up gliding as a 
sport this past summer, Disbrow said. Its a lot of fun.
From space camp to quasars: student pursues origins of universe
Ive gotten 
to meet a 
lot of really 
interesting 
people through 
this research.
Ashley Disbrow
Sophomore physics 
student
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Ashley Disbrow has applied her passion for astronomy and cosmology to 
her undergraduate research in the physics department.
Google tests self-driving car on blind man
Google has taken the next 
step in testing their self-driving car by placing a civilian 
behind the wheel. Steve Mahan, a man who is 95 percent 
blind, sat behind the drivers 
seat while the self-driving car 
drove him around to pick up 
his laundry and go through a 
Taco Bell drive-though. The 
car used information in its 
computers database to obey 
speed limits. Mahan said that 
it was some of the best driving that he has ever done. 
Since announcing the selfdriving car project in 2012, 
Google has registered over 
200,000 miles of computerled driving. The car relies on 
laser range ?nders, radar sensors, video cameras, and detailed software to successfully 
make automated driving safe 
and practical.
Source: Discovery News
Branson to rival Camerons trip to the deep trench
After movie director James 
Cameron recently made his 
trip to the bottom of the Mariana Trench to ?lm the environment, Sir Richard Branson, billionare tycoon and 
adventurer, announced plans 
to make his own deep sea trip 
to the ?oor of the Puerto Rico 
Trench.
Unlike the Mariana Trench, 
which has been explored extensively, the Puerto Rico 
Trench has a depth greater 
than the height of Mount 
Everest and is relatively unexplored. In addition to satisfying his thirst for adventure, 
Branson hopes to uncover British and Spanish galleons that 
are suspected to have settled 
on the sea bed. As the founder 
of Virgin Group, Branson will 
use a newly built Virgin Oceanic craft to conduct his voyage in four months.
Source: The Telegraph
Bees display self-medication when infected
Researchers at North Carolina State University have 
found that when bee colonies 
are infected with fungus, the 
bees produce 45 percent more 
resin to ?ght off the pathogen. 
Normally, bees use a resin 
called propolis to ?ll cracks in 
their hives to protect it from 
fungus.
Due to the increasing fear 
of bees becoming extinct, 
scientists are trying to understand more about the insects. 
This new knowledge helps 
beekeepers understand that 
the resin is the bees natural 
defense  the bees use their 
anti-fungal characteristics to 
ensure survival.
Source: Science Daily
Compiled by
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA

---------------------------------------------------

April 2, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A7
Womens tennis takes downNo. 4 Washington and Lee
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The No. 5 ranked Carnegie Mellon womens tennis 
team hosted the No. 4 ranked 
Washington and Lee Generals 
on Saturday. After losing their 
last encounter with Washington and Lee 54 in the ?nals 
of the ITA Division III National Team Indoor Championship, the Tartans turned the 
tables and defeated the Generals 54 at home.
The Tartans split their ?rst 
two double games. First-years 
Chelsea Motie and Bryn Raschke won 83, but sophomore Katie Cecil and ?rstyear Angela Pratt suffered a 
tough loss 84.
The ?nal doubles win 
came from the No. 1 pair, seniors Laura Chen and Courtney Chin. They fell behind 
63 before making a run to 
win 97. This gave the Tartans 
a 21 advantage going into 
singles play.
The womens tennis team 
sealed their victory winning 
the ?rst three singles matches. First, Motie won in straight 
sets 61, 62. Next, Pratt 
won in straight sets, but had 
a slightly harder time. She 
needed to go to a tiebreaker 
in the ?rst set for a 76 victory 
before winning the second set 
64. 
Finally, senior Cze-Ja Tam 
clinched the victory winning 
in straight sets 76, 63.
With the victory sealed, 
the Tartans struggled, dropping their last three games. 
Chin battled hard, taking the 
?rst set into a tiebreaker but 
ultimately losing in straight 
sets 76, 61. Chen put up 
a tough ?ght dragging the 
match out to three sets before 
?nally losing 61, 26, 62. 
Cecil also pulled her match 
out to three sets before falling 
60, 16, 64.
After losing to them at 
indoors, everyone came out 
?red up, especially since we 
were playing them at home. 
Being ahead after doubles 
was huge and everyone did a 
great job keeping the pressure 
on their opponents, Cecil 
said.
With this win, the Carnegie Mellon womens tennis 
team improves to 133 for 
the year, having defeated ten 
nationally-ranked teams this 
season.
Editors note: Courtney Chin is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Senior Cze-ja Tam clinched the ?fth win for the Tartans in their 54 victory over Washington and Lee.
Dive into journalism. Write for The Tartan.
sports@thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

April 2, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A8
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Less than two weeks after 
he was released by the Indianapolis Colts, future Hall 
of Fame quarterback Peyton 
Manning signed with the Denver Broncos. Manning chose 
the Broncos over the Arizona 
Cardinals, Miami Dolphins, 
Seattle Seahawks, Tennessee Titans, and San Francisco 
49ers  all teams he had 
visited during the Manning 
Free Agent Tour.
The Denver front of?ce 
and coaching staff were some 
of the main selling points for 
Manning. With former Broncos Hall of Fame quarterback 
John Elway leading the front 
of?ce and experienced head 
coach John Fox directing the 
team, the Broncos management is both quarterbackfriendly and experienced in 
the NFL.
The Broncos also have a 
much better supporting cast 
than the Colts have had over 
the past few years. Denver 
has a young, top-tier defense 
headed by linebackers Von 
Miller and Elvis Dumervil, 
who carried the team to the 
playoffs last year, and good 
receivers in Demaryius Thomas and Eric Decker.
The Broncos will also be returning most of their leagueleading rushing attack led 
by running backs Knowshon 
Moreno and Willis McGahee.
Adjusting to the Broncos 
will be a challenge for Manning. This will be the ?rst 
time in his professional career 
that his home stadium is not a 
dome and is wide open to the 
elements. For Manning, who 
forces the offensive play calling to pass ?rst and uses the 
running game as a change of 
pace, the weather can potentially grind his offense to a 
halt.
There is also the issue of 
altitude. Aside from the effects on the actual football, 
the altitude change makes 
it harder for Manning and 
his teammates to catch their 
breath. He frequently used to 
hurry the offense in Indianapolis as a way to tire out the defense and to stop them from 
resetting after each play. With 
this altitude, Manning may be 
forced to slow down his offense so the larger offensive 
linemen have time to recover 
in between plays.
Manning may also have 
trouble adapting to some of 
the key role players around 
him. With the addition of 
Manning, the Broncos are 
switching from the running 
spread attack they used last 
year under starting quarterback Tim Tebow  who has 
since been traded to the New 
York Jets  to a much more 
pass-heavy offense.
Because of this transition, many players roles are 
changing dramatically. Tight 
ends in last years offensive scheme would focus on 
blocking ?rst, with running 
routes and catching passes as 
afterthoughts. But with Manning under center, the Broncos tight ends are expected 
to be more like wide receivers than offensive linemen. 
To ease this transition, the 
Broncos have acquired former 
Colts back-up tight end Jacob 
Tamme who, due to injuries 
to starter Dallas Clark, has developed a very good rapport 
with Manning.
The biggest challenge for 
Manning will ultimately be 
his health.
While it is true that he was 
one of the best quarterbacks 
in Indianapolis, he is coming 
back from four neck surgeries. The team obviously believes he is at least close to his 
previous level of play, but the 
risk is still there.
The Broncos have a lot 
more riding on Manning than 
just money. Even though 
their contract with Manning 
has health contingencies, the 
Broncos will still be in serious trouble if he goes down. 
They do not have a competent backup yet, and they 
still need a quarterback for 
when 36-year-old Manning 
inevitably retires.
The partnership of Manning and the Broncos is not 
without risks, but both sides 
seem to think the possible rewards outweigh them.
There will be high expectations of playoff successes, and 
any struggles will have Broncos fans enraged about the 
swap of winning, fan-favorite 
Tebow for Manning.
SPORTS COMMENTARYManning on his way to Broncos
ATHLETE PROFILEKasey LaMothe comes backstrong after suffering injury
Courtesy of Kasey LaMothe
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Even after herniating two discs in her 
lower back and tearing her psoas muscle, 
junior Kasey LaMothe returned to the volleyball court. It is extremely hard coming 
back from an injury. Besides the mental 
issues, it is hard to get your body back in 
shape after being out for so long, LaMothe 
said.
She is hard-working and faces obstacles 
that are put in front of her with poise and 
dedication, said sophomore teammate 
Amy Friedman.
Volleyball is a fall sport and LaMothe is 
already looking ahead to her next season, 
which will bring her to her twelfth season 
of playing. 
I am hoping to continue to better my 
skills even though it is my last season. I 
dont want to get lazy and I want to really enjoy the sport. I have high hopes that 
the team will come out on top in the UAA 
and even make the NCAA tournament, 
LaMothe said.
LaMothe feels that team camaraderie 
really helps them work toward their goals. 
My proudest moment was when we came 
back and won a game against a very tough 
team. We had to ?ght hard and everyone 
was so involved in the game. It was a really 
exciting game, LaMothe exclaimed.
During the off-season, the volleyball 
team continues to lift and train regularly. 
One of LaMothes funniest moments happened during preseason. During preseason, we get some time for aquatic practices. Coach [Kim Kelly] allows us to do 
water aerobics, which is hilarious to participate in and watch, LaMothe said.
LaMothe enjoys her time on the volleyball team. The best thing about being on 
the volleyball team is the actual team. I 
know that I can rely on any of the girls at 
any time, LaMothe said.
Kasey is a hard-working and talented 
player, and without her my freshman year 
would not have been as fun. I couldnt have 
asked for a better passing partner, bus partner, working out partner, and best friend on 
the team, said ?rst-year teammate Jessica 
Uphoff.
LaMothe is currently majoring in biological sciences with a minor in biomedical 
engineering. In the future, she is looking 
into a career in the biomedical engineering 
?eld.
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
tennis team hosted the No. 19 
Washington and Lee Generals and the No. 4 Kenyon College Lords. The mens team 
?nished the weekend 11, 
improving its season record to 
95. 
On Saturday, the Tartans 
took the court and topped the 
Generals 63. Even though it 
was a chilly morning, the Tartans started off strong with 
a 21 lead in doubles. No. 1 
doubles team of junior Duke 
Miller and ?rst-year William 
Duncan brought in an 84 
win, while No. 2 team of junior Harsha Rao and ?rst-year 
Thomas Cooper had a decisive 
victory of 81.
In singles play, ?rst off 
the court for the Tartans was 
?rst-year Christian HeaneySecord with a quick 63, 61 
win. Duncan followed suit at 
No. 3 singles with a three-set 
victory, scoring 36, 62, 62. 
Miller clinched the match victory over the Generals with 
a 76 (5), 64 win at No. 1 
singles. Rao added another 
win at No. 4 singles for the 
Tartans, bringing the teams 
total to six wins.
The Tartans took on the 
Kenyon College Lords on Sunday. The No. 13 Tartans had 
a 21 lead after doubles with 
wins from No. 1 duo of Miller 
and Duncan 86 and No. 3 
tandem of Heaney-Secord and 
?rst-year Bryce Beisswanger 
97.
In singles play, Duncan 
brought in a 63, 62, straight 
set victory at No. 3 singles. 
Miller and Heaney-Secord at 
No. 1 and No. 2 singles, respectively, had long three-set 
battles. Miller fell 64, 57, 
62 while Heaney-Secord ?nished shortly after falling 64, 
57, 63. The last win for the 
Tartans was No. 6 singles junior Jooho Yu, who was victorious in three sets 36, 63, 
62. 
The Tartans fell one win 
short of a victory over the 
Lords, and the match ended 
with a ?nal score of 54 in favor of Kenyon.
The Tartans will return to 
the court next Wednesday to 
take on Grove City College at 
home.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
First-year Christian Heaney-Secord hits a serve during his doubles 
match against Kenyon.
Mens tennis ?nishes 11 on courtTartans golf wins Titan Invitational
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens golf team won the 2012 
Titan Invitational hosted by 
Westminster College at the 
New Castle Country Club on 
Monday. Led by sophomore 
Ian Bangor, who was the top 
individual medalist at the 
event, the Tartans scored 313 
to beat second-place Clarion 
University by nine strokes. 
This was Bangors ?fth 
top-10 ?nish of the season, 
the most top-10 ?nishes on 
the team. His round score average of 76.1 on the 201112 
season is also a team best. 
Most of it was solid putting and just staying patient 
on a tough day for most of the 
competition, Bangor said.
Bangor shot a 73 at the 
event, followed by senior Michael Cheng who shot a 77. 
Senior Terence Einhorn shot 
an 81 and sophomore Grant 
Strimel shot an 82. First-year 
Justin Fischler rounded out 
the team scoring an 84.
The Tartans also entered 
two individual golfers whose 
scores did not count towards 
the team score. First-year 
Derek Cobb carded an 82 and 
sophomore Matt Wilson shot 
a 93.
The conditions were 
very dif?cult. You know that 
the scores were going to be 
high, so if you were playing 
bad you just had to try to do 
some damage control, Wilson said. We were fortunate 
enough to put up some decent scores and win the tournament.
The Tartans did not compete in this event last year, 
but this victory is their ?rst 
?rst-place ?nish since the 
Grove City Fall Invitational 
on Sept. 13, 2011. 
The next event for Carnegie Mellon mens golf is 
Sunday and next Monday at 
the Mid-Atlantic Regional. 
The event will be held at the 
Hershey Country Club, with 
the ?rst day starting at 11 
a.m. and the second starting 
at 8 a.m.
Mens track and ?eld athletes set several personal bests
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
track and ?eld team competed 
at the Washington and Jefferson Invitational last Saturday. It was the teams throwers and distance runners that 
were the most successful in 
Washington, Pa.
In distance events, sophomore Josh Newby won the 
1,500-meter run with a time of 
4:00.69. Senior Rob Morhard 
placed sixth with a time of 
4:06.69, slightly ahead of 
sophomore Kenneth Murphy, 
whose 4:07.86 time placed 
him seventh.
First-year Thomas Vandenberg competed in the 800-meter run, placing second with a 
time of 1:54.85. Junior Graham Shorr ?nished fourth in 
the 10,000-meter run with a 
time of 33:41.04.
Senior Ryan Kissells long 
jump of 6.40 meters put him 
in third place.
Sophomore Nathan Cheek 
won the hammer throw with a 
personal best of 51.50 meters. 
Cheeks throw also set a new 
meet record. Senior Anthony 
Hernandez also threw a personal best of 49.75 meters in 
the hammer throw, placing 
third in the event. Sophomore 
Zachary Erra-Hernandez ?nished ?fth in the event with a 
throw of 46.13 meters.
Erra-Hernandez also competed in the shot put, winning with a personal best toss 
of 15.57 meters. His success 
continued in the meet during 
the discus throw with another 
personal best mark of 44.34 
meters. Cheek shot putted 
14.00 meters and placed ?fth 
in the event.
The mens track team takes 
the ?eld again on Saturday at 
10 a.m. at the annual Carnegie 
Mellon Quad Meet.
File Photo by Tommy Hofman  
Sophomore Kenneth Murphy placed seventh in the 1,500-meter run.

---------------------------------------------------


04.02.12 Volume 106, Issue 23
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
CELEBRATES
CENTENNIAL

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
This weeks comics question what can be 
considered art and science.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three Spielberg movies this 
weekend.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about Rachel Ries 
songwriting career.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Patrick Gage Kelley
8
34510
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about sprained 
ankles and Game of Thrones.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Kaleidoscope
The Frame Gallery hosts annual exhibition of 
BXA student projects.
3
Gestures
A new exhibit opens at The Mattress Factory, 
combining art, architecture, and activism.
4
Cursive
The indie rock band performs in Pittsburgh 
with Cymbals Eat Guitars and Conduits.
5
Adrienne Rich
A Tartan writer says farewell to the renowned 
poet who died at 82 last week.
6
Electric Baby
Carnegie Mellon alumna works with 
Pittsburghs Quantum Theatre on a new play.
7
Centennial
The School of Music celebrates its centennial 
with a concert at the Benedum Center.
8
Brody Condon
The New York-based artist demystifies his 
unconventional performance art.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that Carnegie Mellon had rifle 
teams 50 years ago?
10
Puzzles
Numbers, letters, and computer science. A 
hexadecimal Sudoku is coming your way.
13
Horoscopes
Wisdom and magic in the world dont come 
from within. They come from Disney. 
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh this week.
15
4

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 04.02.123
Frame shows BXA student work
Interdisciplinary art exhibited at annual Kaleidoscope show
The Frame was once again transformed into a new 
space last Friday night  this time decked out 
in rainbow streamers, Skittles, and new student 
work. The BXA Kaleidoscope Show, an annual 
showcase of the work done by students in the BXA 
interdisciplinary program, featured a diverse range 
of work that exemplified the spirit of the program. 
According to the BXA programs website, the 
mission of the program is to foster the creativity of 
students who explore innovative approaches to the 
academic environments of two colleges.
The work featured in the show included technical 
architecture projects, video, photography, sculpture, 
and drawing, as well as a musical performance. Each 
piece was unique, but the range of artwork from the 
17 submissions was confusing at times. The only 
factor tying the pieces together was that the creators 
were all BXA students, so each piece was the result 
of the creators combining their two distinct passions 
into a single work.
The back room of the gallery was transformed 
into a laser maze made out of streamers where 
participants had to avoid the lasers in order to 
retrieve a Hersheys Kiss from a bowl in the corner. 
Henry Armero, a first-year studying computer 
science and art, said, Its wonderful, it makes 
me really happy! When asked about the show in 
general, Armero said that he was a fan of the wild 
dcor and the streamers running throughout the 
gallery.
Trashy Fashion  a piece by Janet Lorenz, 
sophomore Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student 
in environmental studies and art  was a fullscale victorian-inspired dress made of plastic bags, 
bubble wrap, and a paper bag. Junior Bachelor of 
Science and Arts student Shephaly Soni showed two 
paintings. The first depicted a body with a harsh, 
diseased-looking red spot consuming its right side, 
while the second was a more abstract piece, painted 
in fleshy tones of what appeared to be flowers and 
vein-like lines running through it. The description 
of the piece read, Im a painter who wants to be 
a surgeon. While art is a part of who I am, I hope 
to pursue medicine, global health, and specific 
surgery.
Julie Mallis, a senior Bachelor of Humanities and 
Arts student in art and anthropology, and Madeleine 
Barnes, a senior Bachelor Humanities and Arts 
student in art and creative writing, curated the 
show. When asked about the large number of Skittles 
and rainbow paraphernalia, Mallis responded, We 
thought that was sort of like an emblem for us, like 
taste the possibilities of combining your majors. 
Mallis also shared that after reading an article in 
The New York Times explaining that Skittles have 
recently become an symbol of support for Trayvon 
Martin, they decided to include the candy as a 
gesture of support. Its kind of nice to say we also 
stand in solidarity with Trayvon Martin, Mallis said. 
And I think thats in the spirit of interdisciplinary 
as well  bringing people together and embracing 
differences.
At 8 p.m. a band called The Faculty, which includes 
senior Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student in 
architecture and economics Samuel Lavery, played 
in the corner of the gallery. The group teamed up 
with Pittsburgh rapper FRZY to create a hybrid jazz 
and rap sound. The first song they played began 
with a funky rendition of My Funny Valentine, 
which transitioned into a smooth rap and then a few 
minutes of improvisation by the various instruments 
in the seven-piece band. This included saxophone, 
drums, guitar, standing bass, keyboard, a female 
vocalist, and FRZY. The music drew in a variety 
of visitors as the music flowed through the space, 
giving the event a more welcoming vibe.
Samantha Ward | Staffwriter
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Last week, I played dizzy 
bat  a game that 
involves a hollow wiffle 
ball bat, spinning around 
in a circle, and swinging 
at a can tossed in your 
general direction  and 
sprained my ankle. How 
can I use my sprained 
ankle to pick up chicks?
Thanks,
Usually Not Comically Out 
Of Rational Decisions, 
I Need Anything To 
Ensnare Damsels
Dear UNCOORDINATED,
A sprained ankle is one of 
the worst injuries you can 
get  theres nothing sexy 
about it. The only way to 
make this work is with the 
story, and your story sucks.
Instead, start telling them 
this story: The other day 
I was walking home after 
volunteering at the hospital 
when I saw a puppy with 
a hurt paw trying to cross 
the road. Then a giant SUV 
came barreling down the 
road, and the driver didnt 
notice the puppy. So I dove 
into the street to rescue 
the puppy, but I twisted my 
ankle in a pothole. I then 
delivered the puppy into the 
waiting arms of a little girl 
whose dad had just been 
shipped off to Afghanistan. 
As she clutched the puppy 
to her heart, she whispered, 
Thank you, sir; youre a real 
hero, just like my daddy.  
That story has everything 
liberal college girls love to 
get self-righteous about.
THAT story will get you 
laid,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Ive heard a lot about the 
show Game of Thrones, 
and the new season just 
premiered. But Im not 
sure if I should watch 
it. What do you think? 
Should I watch it?
Sincerely,
Too Lazy To Make An 
Acronym, Gonna Go Drink
Dear TLTMAAGGD,
Game of Thrones has it 
all: sex, incest, violence, 
incest, and a lot of incest. It 
has great acting, fantastic 
writing, and beautiful 
directing. And tasteful incest. 
The second season has just 
started, so you may have 
some qualms about getting 
into it. You should definitely 
watch the first season 
beforehand. Once youve 
finished the incest-filled first 
season, you can start the 
less-incest-filled second 
season. There are giant 
wolves, zombies, dragons, 
and that chick from 300.
Once youve become 
obsessed with the universe 
of the TV series, you can 
start on the books. They 
have all the details the show 
leaves out. The books are 
full to the brim of maps, 
chronologies, and incest. 
The writing is great, and 
at least 50 percent of it is 
descriptions of food. Plus, 
youll get to say, The book 
was better.
Plus Peter Dinklage is a 
boss,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About sprained ankles and Game of Thrones
In her piece Trashy Fashion, BHA sophomore 
Janet Lorenz constructed a victorian-inspired dress 
out of plastic bags, bubble wrap, and a paper bag.

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 04.02.12
The Mexican War Streets district of Pittsburghs North 
Side is the unlikely host of many small artistic treasures. 
Along Sampsonia Way, the fenced-in backyards and 
cratered streets stand alongside historic row houses 
painted with colorful murals. Among these hidden 
treasures is the Mattress Factory, a museum that 
specializes in installation art.
Despite its modest location, the museum attracted 
a signi?cant crowd for the opening of its newest 
exhibit on Friday night. Gestures: Intimate Friction, 
guest curated by Carnegie Mellon adjunct associate 
professor of architecture Mary-Lou Arscott, showcases 
an intersection of the work of artists, architects, and 
activists. Keeping true to the museums focus on 
installation art, the exhibit features engaging and 
interactive pieces that charm viewers and explore how 
art can expand into the spaces around us.
The exhibit is being displayed in a smaller building 
on Monterey Street, rather than the museums main 
building on Sampsonia Way, so the venue for the 
reception was very small. The turnout continued to grow 
over the course of the reception; the narrow hallways 
and small rooms were crammed with guests casually 
chatting, drinking beer, and viewing the art.
Adjunct assistant professor in Carnegie Mellons School 
of Architecture Nick Liadis Space of Sound/Sound of 
Space features hundreds of thin, white, braided ropes 
hanging from the ceiling. Viewers had to ?ght through 
them and oftentimes inadvertently thwacked each other 
in order to pass.
Artist and Carnegie Mellon Masters of Fine Arts alumna 
Jenn Gooch took a different approach to playing with the 
space in her work, Home Splice: Doorway. With a video 
projected onto a door-sized wall, Gooch created the 
illusion that viewers were glimpsing a woman from the 
other side of a door that had been left ajar. Even though 
the woman was an image on a wall, the piece evoked 
a sense of forced intimacy. Goochs and Liadis work, 
among others, enabled museum guests to physically 
engage in the art, simply by being part of the space 
around them.
While artists and architects have a large representation 
in the exhibit, activists have their voices too. One 
piece titled Inside, Outside, Inside: walls are built 
by Braddock initiative Transformazium was created to 
bring about change in a neighborhood that faces many 
social and economic challenges. Artfully arranged debris 
from a deconstructed Braddock parish house and other 
materials give viewers an artistic lens through which 
they can view a very real and tangible activist effort. 
This piece was a welcome contrast to some of the more 
abstract works featured in the exhibit.
The highlight of the exhibit was undoubtedly architect 
and activist Ling Hes Wish exchange dandelion, 
playfully showcased in a room ?lled with red and white 
balloons. Volunteers and museum staff encouraged 
people passing through to write their wishes on ribbons 
and attach them to the balloons. This piece was by far 
the most interactive in the exhibit, relying exclusively on 
the guests willingness to take part. It is de?ned with 
how much each participant would like to give, said the 
pieces description in the gallery program. In a ceremony 
later that evening, museum guests took the red balloons 
outside and released them into the air.
While a nice idea, the balloon-releasing ceremony was 
less than practical. Several of the balloons made little 
progress before getting caught in telephone cables and 
trees. Despite these dif?culties, however, the ceremony 
had the lovely effect of bringing all of the museum 
guests together. While museum-goers usually live in 
their own worlds, viewing the art at their own pace 
or socializing in small groups, this part of the exhibit 
created a rare, unifying set of circumstances: The art 
became a means through which people connected to 
each other, rather than merely connecting to the art.
The Gestures: Intimate Friction exhibit engages its 
audience in every sense of the word. By viewing this 
exhibit, guests of the Mattress Factory have the chance 
to physically experience art, rather than simply look at 
canvases mounted on a wall. This newest exhibit is a 
prime example of exactly what the Mattress Factory 
does best: expand the boundaries of art until the art 
literally inhabits the space around us.
Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Gestures: Intimate Friction will show at the Mattress 
Factory through Nov. 30.
Susie Ferrell | Staff
Museum visitors gather outdoors for a balloonreleasing ceremony as part of Wish exchange 
dandelion by artist and activist Ling He. 
Gestures exhibit experiments with space
Mattress Factory opening reception physically engages viewers with installation art

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 04.02.125
Paperhouse
On Rachel Ries
Hailing from the vast expanses of South Dakota, Rachel 
Ries can bring grown men to tears.
Songwriting is an inextricable part of existence for Ries, 
who is constantly crafting songs. She has released myriad 
recordings, two highlights of which are On Laurel Lake EP 
and Without a Bird.
Besides over?owing with massive doses of honesty, On 
Laurel Lake EP reveals skilled production and recording 
techniques. In this album, Ries trembling harmonies 
punctuate her sophisticated melodies. Her craftsmanship 
is apparent on this exquisite folk album. From the slightest 
wavering of vocals to the gentlest of brushes on the guitar 
pickups, Ries captures it all on the recording.
Ries tackled the album by herself on a personal retreat 
in Tennessee and dug deep to patch the songs together. 
While not as seemingly hip as Bon Ivers Blood Bank, 
her recordings on the EP have a poignant delicacy that 
allows it to exist free from hype. In a different vein from the 
folk-oriented pastorals of On Laurel Lake EP Ries 2007 
release, Without A Bird explores her relationship with the 
city of Chicago.
Across albums, Ries music constantly grapples with the 
tumultuous dichotomy between life in the city and life in 
the country. In her own words: This life Ive chosen felt 
suddenly precarious, muddled, and far too far from the 
source. What do we really need? Out here in the real 
world I ask for so much more than family, faith, food, and 
shelter. So much vapor.
While Ries songs are heartbreaking, they are not love 
songs. They speak to life  its joys and its anguish. 
Memories, dreams, and illusions sit beside anguished 
lonesomeness in Ries songs to create a heart-wrenchingly 
powerful combination.
Juan Fernandez | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Psychic Ills  Hazed Dream
Grimes  Visions
Shanimal  Rough & Tumble
Frank Macchia  Swamp Thang
Young Magic  Melt
Undivided  Moves Between Clouds
Tito Carrillo  Opening Statement
Roll The Dice  In Dust
R.E.M.  Part Lies, Part Heart, Part Truth, Part Garbage: 
1982-2011
of Montreal  Paralytic Stalks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Crowd goes loopy for Cursive
Cymbals Eat Guitars and Conduits open at Mr. Smalls Theatre
Given the chill and nostalgic music that has been 
trending recently, it is not uncommon to go to a 
concert in which a majority of the crowd simply 
stands and watches a band play. Listeners check 
their phones and talk to their friends. They have the 
exact same experience they would have listening 
to an album in their car. This is not, however, the 
experience of a Cursive concert. Last Wednesday, 
Cursive performed at Mr. Smalls Theatre with 
Cymbals Eat Guitars and Conduits and provided 
an energetic musical experience that kept fans 
engaged throughout the show.
Conduits, an indie rock sextet based out of Omaha, 
Neb., was the ?rst opening band. Despite releasing 
their debut album on March 20, they performed 
a cohesive set that mixed the straightforward 
arrangements of pop rock with the sonic textures 
of shoegaze and psychedelic rock. The crowd was 
small for Conduits set, but it was clear that the 
pulsating bass lines and beautiful guitar   imagine 
rippling water as a sound instead of a vision  
captivated these dedicated fans completely.
By the time Cymbals Eat Guitars, a Staten Islandbased quartet, took the stage, the audience had 
grown considerably. The band delivered a visceral 
performance of material mainly off their album 
Lenses Alien. The highlight of their set was their 
performance of ...And the Hazy Sea off their 
debut album, which featured spastic lighting and 
an improvised solo by lead singer and guitarist Joe 
DAgostino. The feel of their set contrasted sharply 
from their recorded material. While their records are 
cleanly produced, their live performance sounded 
much more like a wall of sound, which highlighted 
their shoegaze in?uences.
Before Cursive even began its set, audience 
members began chanting the name of lead singer 
and guitarist Tim Kasher. When the band took the 
stage, however, the members did not seem to take 
notice of the packed room and immediately began 
their set. While the audience had been receptive to 
Conduits and Cymbals Eat Guitars, it was absolutely 
enraptured with Cursive. Fans screamed and sang 
along to the ?fteen-song set and four-song encore 
that Cursive provided, while several fans moshed 
spontaneously throughout the night.
While the opening bands both sounded very modern, 
Cursives sound straddled the angsty pop-punk 
characteristic of the early 2000s and the more recent 
indie trends. Their songs would drop suddenly from 
a hard-hitting melody to Kasher singing softly into 
the mic with lyrical dexterity. About half an hour into 
the set, Kasher addressed the crowd as if they were 
old friends and indulged some drunken fans in an 
argument about whether Millvale or Pittsburgh was 
better.
While a majority of the audience had come for 
Cursive, it was dif?cult not to leave as a fan of all 
three groups. Between the unique and captivating 
performances and the band members themselves 
manning the merchandise table, concert goers were 
treated to a night of musical participation instead of 
passive co-existence.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Courtesy of Jason Persse via Flickr
Cymbals Eat Guitars performed at South By 
Southwest in Austin, Tx. two weeks before 
continuing their tour to Pittsburgh.

---------------------------------------------------

The news of Adrienne Richs death pulled me from bed 
to bookshelf. Three of her tomes were there, spines 
broken and pages dog-eared. Well-loved and well-worn, 
these books were my refuge, my release, my rage-fuel. 
But now they were not ?lled with the words of a living, 
breathing, ?ghting woman; rather, they now were the 
legacy of Rich.
Rich was a woman, a Jew, a lesbian, and most 
importantly, a poet. Across more than twenty poetry 
collections, Rich de?ned a voice that explored feminism, 
love, homosexuality, politics, aging, marriage, and 
war. Under nearly all of it was a burning anger against 
inequalities and injustices in our world. She was a 
master of re?ning those topics into brutally stark 
emotions and clean framings of complex issues.
Richs ability to harness her own perspectives and 
feelings into verse is why she won dozens of awards 
over the 60 years she was publishing, and why her 
poems are so deeply treasured by those who read them. 
In her foreword to the 1984 publication of The Fact of 
a Doorframe, she said, Over the years it has seemed 
to be just that  the desire to be heard, to resound in 
anothers soul  that is the impulse behind writing 
poems. That is what she achieved for me, for an entire 
generation before me, and for countless more as we now 
collect the entire body of work that she left us.
The themes in her work are still so desperately 
needed today. A womans gender still puts her at a 
disadvantage, two people of the same gender cannot 
have equal relationships under the law, and we continue 
to kill human beings as we jump from war to war.
But even if we had equality, acceptance, and peace, 
Richs language is a paragon itself. The beauty in her 
poetry is not just in her confrontation of issues that are 
of the utmost importance to her and the minorities she 
supports, but is also in her passion for language. This is 
poetry: A master using words and phrases to evoke an 
emotional response layered in a palimpsest of cultural 
fragments and societal issues.
My hope for our future is that we can all take a moment 
from our days ?lled with the injustices of society, 
the continued warmongering, the rush and pace of 
modern technology, and, for just a moment, visit Richs 
authentically human voice. My hope is that you can let 
her speak to your soul as she has to mine.
In Diving Into the Wreck, Rich, narrating, took her 
camera, her knife, her book of myths: They were her 
tools. They were the devices with which she explored 
and dug into the world. For me, and for myriad readers 
living today, we need more than that. For us, Rich was 
the knife. She was the camera. She showed me how to 
dig deeper than I thought possible. She taught me how 
to see myself, how to explore, and how to rage. Farewell.
Love,
Patrick Gage Kelley | Staffwriter
6literature
pillbox 04.02.12
A farewell to beloved poet Adrienne Rich
Last week, Adrienne Rich passed away at 82; we recount her life, impact, and poetry
Patrick Gage Kelley | Staff
Excerpts from Twenty-One Love Poems
III
Since were not young, weeks have to do time
for years of missing each other. Yet only this odd warp
in time tells me were not young.
Did I ever walk the morning streets at twenty,
my limbs streaming with a purer joy?
did I lean from any window over the city
listening for the future
as I listened here with nerves tuned for your ring?
And you, you move toward me with the same tempo.
Your eyes are everlasting, the green spark
of the blue-eyed grass of early summer, 
the green-blue wild cress washed by the spring
At twenty, yes: we thought wed live forever.
At forty-five, I want to know even our limits.
I touch you knowing we werent born tomorrow,
and somehow, each of us will help the other live,
and somewhere, each of us must help the other die.
XIII
The rules break like a thermometer,
quicksilver spills across the charted systems, 
were out in a country that has no language
no laws, were chasing the raven and the wren
through gorges unexplored since dawn
whatever we do together is pure invention
the maps they gave us were out of date
by years . . . were driving through the desert
wondering if the water will hold out
the hallucinations turn to simple villages
the music on the radio comes clear
neither Rosenkavalier nor Gtterdmmerung
but a womans voice singing old songs
with new words, with a quiet bass, a flute
plucked and fingered by women outside the law.
1974-1976
Originally published in 1976 by Effies Press, later included 
in The Dream of a Common Language, 1978 Norton.
Adrienne Rich died on March 27, 2012 in her home. 
Her last book of poetry, Tonight No Poetry Will 
Serve: Poems 2007-2010, was published in January 
2011.

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 04.02.127
Its new every day. As a director youre watching the 
same thing day after day, but you have to start fresh 
each day as if you dont know anything at all. This helps 
you to look at it in the perspective of the audience.
This is director Daniella Topols personal philosophy 
when it comes to directing. Topol received her Bachelor 
of Fine Arts and Masters of Fine Arts in directing from 
Carnegie Mellon and is known for her contemporary 
work. She has gained critical acclaim worldwide and 
has recently been working with Quantum Theatre in 
Pittsburgh on the world premiere of playwright Stefanie 
Zadravecs The Electric Baby.
The production features a number of Carnegie Mellon 
alumni in addition to Topol. Actor Nick Lehane, who 
received his Bachelor of Fine Arts, and lighting director 
C. Todd Brown, a current faculty member in the School 
of Drama, both make an appearance.
The Electric Baby tells the tale of a baby born to a 
Nigerian father and a Romanian mother who now lives 
in Pittsburgh. The play is a heart-wrenching personal 
story integrated with Romanian folktales. Zadravec 
described it as an earnest, heartfelt play that she 
wrote during a trying period of her life. Her trials and 
tribulations in struggling with her own sons illness were 
an inspiration for the story. Given the personal nature of 
the story, Topol admitted that this play was a step out of 
every cast members comfort zone.
The world premiere of The Electric Baby was last Friday. 
The production is a joint venture with Quantum Theatre, 
a theater that has found unique footing in Pittsburgh. 
We are a company that explores the language of theatre 
and how theatre communicates, said producer Karla 
Boos. Keeping this idea in mind, Quantum Theatre has 
lent the play a new perspective by using unconventional 
spaces to stage the environment. The audience is part 
of the setting and by virtue a part of the play. In this 
manner, Quantum Theatre has successfully transformed 
the role of the audience by drawing them into a colorful, 
sensory experience.
The cast came from diverse backgrounds with a wide 
range of experiences, and each cast member brought 
something unique to the play. Talking about the biggest 
challenge for each cast member, Topol said, People 
always go through an internal struggle in producing 
their best work.
Topols personal philosophy on directing has helped her 
achieve personal ful?llment and success in her career. 
She aims to make each piece of theater an educational 
experience. Topol, Boos, and Zadravec also came to 
campus last week to speak to dramaturgy students 
about their personal experiences in the ?eld of theater. 
Their presence and Topols personal success were an 
inspiration to the students in the School of Drama.
Shalaka Nanda Kumar | Junior Staffwriter
The Electric Baby will run through April 22 at the 
Waldorf School of Pittsburgh.
CMU alumna directs new play The Electric Baby
Daniella Topol works with Pittsburghs Quantum Theatre, discusses directing philosophy
Jesse Kummer | Staffwriter
Jurassic Park is a sci-? adventure 64 
million years in the making. When 
an eccentric billionaire and his team 
of scientists discover how to clone 
dinosaurs using ancient DNA found 
in mosquitos, a team of specialists is 
sent to endorse a theme park created 
around these unique attractions. 
Unfortunately  spoiler alert  a 
harmless tour ride is interrupted by a 
massive storm and suspicious power 
outage that leaves them facing a threat 
they never thought possible. Fun Fact: 
This is still director Steven Spielbergs 
highest-grossing ?lm.
Jurassic Park
Thursday, April 5
7:30 10 12:30
No Instruments Aloud
Saturday, April 7
8
In place of another Spielberg movie, 
Saturday will be ?lled with the sounds 
of ?ve of Carnegie Mellons a cappella 
groups. No Instruments Aloud, an a 
cappella event hosted by The Originals, 
will feature performances by The 
Originals, Treblemakers, Counterpoint, 
Soundbytes, and Joyful Noise. The 
proceeds from the event will go toward 
creating a Carnegie Mellon a cappella 
album and an Originals album.
The Adventures of Tintin
Friday, April 6
8 10 12
Spielberg week continues with his most 
recent ?lm, released in December 2011. 
Based on the popular European comics 
that were primarily published in the 
30s, 40s, and 50s, The Adventures 
of Tintin is Spielbergs ?rst animated 
?lm. The ?lm was shot entirely with 3D 
motion capture technology. The movie 
follows the adventurous reporter Tintin, 
his dog Snowy, and Captain Archibald 
Haddock as they set off on a hunt for 
the treasure of an old sunken ship. 
Fun Fact: The screenplay features the 
writing trio of Steven Moffatt (Doctor 
Who), Edgar Wright (Shaun of the Dead 
and Hot Fuzz), and English comedian 
Joe Cornish.
Saving Private Ryan
Sunday, April 8
7 10 1
If youve never seen this ?lm, go this 
Sunday if only for the epic opening 
sequence of the D-Day Normandy 
invasion. Featuring an ensemble cast 
including Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, 
Tom Sizemore, and Ed Burns, the ?lm 
has been called one of the greatest war 
movies ever made. Saving Private Ryan 
also nabbed Spielberg his second Best 
Director Academy Award. Fun Fact: 
Matt Damon was the only principal 
actor who did not go through limited 
Basic Training in preparation for the 
?lm, so that the other actors would feel 
a deeper sense of resentment towards 
him on camera.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 04.02.1298feature
pillbox 04.02.12
The Carnegie Mellon School of Music has a lot to be 
proud of. Founded in 1912, the school celebrates its 
100th birthday this year. The list of Carnegie Mellon 
alumni who have gone on to hold high-caliber positions 
in leading orchestras and opera houses is extensive, and 
with the continuation of the schools rigorous training, 
the success stories show no sign of stopping.
To celebrate the School of Musics centennial, special 
concerts and events are taking place. One such concert 
was a collaboration between the Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic Orchestra and Choirs, which took place 
Downtown last Saturday at the Benedum Center. The 
performance featured School of Music alumni, current 
students, and guest artists.
A Brief History
The School of Music, which expanded from the 
Department of Music in 1997, has always placed an 
emphasis on excellence. Maintaining this view, the 
programs focus has varied over the years as leadership 
positions have changed hands within the school. The 
?rst brick of the College of Fine Arts building was laid 
on April 25, 1912. The building now stands complete 
with magni?cent pillars, elaborate ceiling frescoes, 
and marble ?oors, and it serves as the hub for Carnegie 
Mellons music and art departments.
The Carnegie Mellon music department was 
originally created to train future Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra (PSO) members. Although PSO operations 
were suspended between 1910 and 1926, the two 
organizations had a close relationship from the 
beginning, with former and future PSO musicians 
frequently hired as faculty.
Both World War I and World War II drew attention away 
from the music department. In its early years, the school 
focused heavily on music education, producing many 
music teachers for public schools in the Pittsburgh area.
Later, with the arrival of renowned artists like composer 
Leonardo Balada and choral conductor Robert Page, the 
school took a turn for the more performance-oriented. 
In the 80s and 90s, additions to the faculty included 
Grammy-nominated violinist Andrs Crdenes and New 
York Philharmonic principal ?autist Jeanne Baxtresser. 
These additions further advanced the schools standards 
and introduced a conservatory culture.
Within this time, a Baroque Ensemble and a 
Contemporary Ensemble formed. New programs were 
introduced, including a music and technology degree, a 
composers forum, a musical theatre program, and 
a major in bagpiping  all of which broadened and 
deepened the impact of the School of Music.
In an effort to discover details about the early years of 
the century-old music department, assistant professor 
of musicology Robert Fallon researched the Carnegie 
Mellon archives. Fallon found that standards of 
performance were likely quite high in the institutions 
early days. Programs show that repertoire included 
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovskys Violin Concerto and Johannes 
Brahms Clarinet Sonatas, challenging works that require 
advanced pro?ciency on an instrument.
Associate head of the School of Music Natalie Ozeas 
has been involved with the Carnegie Mellon music 
department since 1955, when she enrolled as a student. 
Ozeas has earned numerous degrees and certi?cations 
at Carnegie Mellon and has been on faculty for 24 years. 
In her time at the university, Ozeas has witnessed 
substantial change. It has been a delight to see the 
School of Music grow in size and quality, she said. 
Most recently, the school is expanding to provide 
opportunities for the development of skills necessary for 
musicians in the twenty-?rst century.
As the career ?eld for music performance suffers with 
the downturn of the economy, the school has recognized 
the need for its students to learn entrepreneurial skills 
and to develop a practical career goal within the music 
industry. There is no doubt that the institution will move 
in a positive direction while maintaining its historical 
reputation for excellence.
Centennial Celebration Concert
The celebratory concert on Saturday was an exciting 
success. Created with the diverse and global perspective 
of Carnegie Mellon in mind, the program demonstrated 
the impressive skills of musicians associated with 
Carnegie Mellon.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Orchestra, Repertory 
Chorus, and Concert Choir joined forces, comprising 200 
current students in its entirety.
Concertmistress Sonia Shklarov led the orchestra 
unwaveringly throughout. Manu Narayan, an alumnus 
screen actor and vocalist seen in the movie The Last 
Airbender, was Master of Ceremonies.
The show opened with the Philharmonics rendition of 
British composer Bernard Rands Danza petri?cada. In 
this mysterious piece, delicate woodwind and brass 
solos interwove through strong string melodies.
Next on the program was the jaw-dropping ?rst 
movement of Henryk Wieniawkis Violin Concerto No. 1 
School of Music celebrates centennial
Centennial Celebration Concert features current students, alumni performers, guest artists
The Centennial Celebration Concert took place last Saturday at the Benedum Center in Downtown. The 
same concert will be performed on Monday at Carnegie Hall in New York City.
                  Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
by Erin Yanacek | Junior Staffwriter[]
in F-sharp Minor, Op. 14. Here, senior violin major Emma 
Steele, a recent Sibelius International Violin Competition 
?nalist, took center stage. Her technical pro?ciency was 
showcased as she executed the works double stops, 
glissandi, and arpeggios with seeming ease.
The third piece on the program featured two male 
vocalists who graduated from Carnegie Mellons music 
department in 2003. Jeffrey Behrens and Liam Bonner 
gave a dramatic rendition of La donna  un animale, a 
selection from Gaetano Donizettis opera Lelisir damore. 
Wind and brass players were well-mannered with their 
intermittent musical statements, allowing the bold vocal 
soloists to shine.
Robert Schumanns Konzertstck concluded the ?rst 
half. Alumnus Dale Clevenger, horn player in the Chicago 
Symphony Orchestra for the last 45 years and threetime Grammy award winner, conducted the piece. The 
work featured four amazing french horn soloists. William 
Caballero, principal horn in the PSO and artist lecturer 
at Carnegie Mellon, led on ?rst part with a warm and 
con?dent sound. Principal horn of the Atlanta Symphony 
Orchestra Brice Andrus, alumnus Howard Wall of the 
New York Philharmonic, and alumnus Peter Rubins of 
the San Antonio Opera ?lled the other three spots. These 
four brass voices blended with impeccable intonation 
and accuracy, making the ?ery piece a success.
Deborah McDowell, a ?rst-year masters student in 
horn performance, also performed as a member of the 
accompanying orchestra for the piece. [This piece] 
is really one of the most dif?cult compositions written 
for horn, she said. To hear it played so well is really 
inspiring.
Throughout the concert, music directors Ronald Zollman 
and Page, former choral conductor, took turns directing 
the ensemble. After the intermission, Page took to 
the podium. A legend himself, Page worked with the 
Cleveland Orchestra from 1971 to 1989 and has worked 
with the PSO and Carnegie Mellon choirs ever since. 
The second half of the performance featured four popular 
songs with vocal soloists.
Agustn Laras Granada, a love song featuring alumna 
Lisa Vroman, opened with a sensual Latin trumpet solo 
by senior trumpet major Dan Blumenfeld. Blumenfelds 
spicy melodic lines set the stage for what was to come: 
Vroman danced along with the piece, ending with a 
?amenco kick and an impassioned kiss for Page.
The Carnegie Mellon Choirs joined in on George 
Gershwins classic Our Love Is Here to Stay. The piece 
was arranged by Page and orchestrated by David Gedris, 
who graduated from Carnegie Mellon in 1996 with a 
degree in trumpet performance.
Later in the evening, a haunting ballad from the 
Broadway hit Ragtime, Back to Before, featured 
soprano alumna Christiane Noll. Noll is known as one of 
the most versatile stage performers of her generation. 
She sang the part with experience and conviction.
Zollman reclaimed the podium for the ?nal work. In 
collaboration between the orchestra and choirs, students 
rounded out the night with Alexander Borodins folkloric 
Polovetsian Dances from the opera Prince Igor. A 
virtuoso solo was executed by Kelly Coyle, a masters 
student in clarinet performance. Here, the idiosyncrasies 
that arise when coordinating instrumentalists with 
vocalists were handled nicely.
The Centennial Celebration Concert was a highly 
successful event, featuring an impressive array of alumni 
and student performers.
The concert will be performed for a second time on 
Monday at Carnegie Hall in New York City.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Saturdays concert featured 200 current students in the Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic Orchestra, Repertory Chorus, and Concert Choir, as well as many alumni and guest 
performers. Music directors Ronald Zollman and Robert Page took turns directing the ensemble throughout the show.

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 04.02.12
They love artists at the IRS, joked performance 
artist Brody Condon during his lecture in 
McConomy Auditorium last Tuesday. The lecture 
was part of the College of Fine Arts lecture series. 
Condon has been fully engaged in his art since he 
graduated with a Masters of Fine Arts in visual arts 
from of the University of California at San Diego in 
2002, but still has no answers for the IRS when it 
comes to how long his company has been running.
After receiving a classical education in sculpture, 
Condon stepped into performance art and 
installation. In his 1998 sculptural performance art 
piece titled Room, Condon addressed his posttraumatic stress. In the piece, Condon set up a 
bare wooden frame of a room in a dried-up lake bed 
outside of Los Angeles. He then suspended himself 
for hours within the frame, held up only by pig 
intestines. His only audience for this piece was the 
all-terrain vehicles that would infrequently pass by 
the installation.
Condon now draws audiences everywhere he goes, 
from the New York Museum of Modern Art to the 
Los Angeles County Museum of Art to an expansive 
park in the Netherlands.
Condon often works with live action role-playing 
(LARP) in his performance arts. At the Dutch 
Sonsbeek Sculpture Exhibition in 2008, Condon 
directed a complex LARP performance, titled 
Twenty?vefold Manifestation. During the piece, 
the players created entirely new personas and 
cultures. They fabricated new gods around the 
sculptures of other artists, and even spent days on 
end in a sculptural tower of worship.
Condon asserted that he still wanted to hold on 
to the subculture of LARP and let the performers 
add their own detail to the scenario. They bring 
their own material and their own interest. I only 
worry about their subjective experience if it gets 
dangerous or they break character, Condon said.
In another performance art piece called LevelFive, 
Condon focused on the authenticity of the 
participants experience. The piece, which was 
installed multiple times throughout 2010 and 
2011, is a reference to the self-realization seminars 
that became popular in the 1970s. The twoday experiment pushed volunteers to extremes 
in an attempt to recognize their true faculties. 
Condon said it was kind of like creating a sort of 
experiential essay.
Condon would at times debrief with his players, in 
order to roll through what looks like a very extreme 
experience. Additionally, he established tools 
that enabled the participants to check in with one 
another emotionally without breaking character. 
For me personally, thats the audience  thats the 
point, Condon said.
Third-year graduate student in the ?ne arts Agnes 
Bolt identi?ed the contrast among performance, 
role-playing, and technology in Condons work. 
[The] work speaks for itself... about the space of 
messiness in our mind, Bolt said.
Crystal Yip, a ?rst-year art major, knew about 
Condon from a class taught by visual culture and 
critical theory professor Melissa Ragona. Its 
interesting, Yip said. We still dont understand 
everything. Nonetheless, Yip said the talk helped to 
demystify some of Condons work.
Susie Ferrell | Junior Staffwriter 
Condon demysti?es work
New York artist explores unconventional performance art
Performance artist Brody Condon lectures about 
his work surrounding live action role-playing.
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
March 14, 1912
A news article discusses the poor 
turnout for an engaging speaker 
who was brought in to lecture to the 
Crucible Club. The speaker lectured 
on mining in the West and described 
the condition of Western forests. He is 
affiliated with the Department of Mining 
and engages in government work.
50years ago
March 28, 1962
Traveling to the Naval Academy in 
Annapolis, Mary., both of Carnegie 
Mellons rifle teams are successful in 
the regional competition. The A team 
placed sixth and the B team placed 
eleventh. A team members also 
managed to take home eight medals in 
individual competition over the course 
of the weekend-long event.
25years ago
April 1, 1987
In the spirit of April Fools Day, The 
Tartan runs a gag issue full of colorful 
language and moderately offensive 
articles. The issue confirmed the selling 
of the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences to the University of 
Pittsburgh to pay for a new parking lot 
near Schenley Park.
10years ago
March 25, 2002
In an attempt to help the males of 
Carnegie Mellon find women, one 
arts and living writer suggests making 
time for a study session at the Hillman 
Library at the University of Pittsburgh. 
He reminds students that smart and 
pretty girls at Pitt are often ignored for 
their less intelligent counterparts.
5years ago
April 2, 2007
Two authors give their opinions of four 
local places to get cupcakes. Ranging 
from bakeries to supermarkets, there is 
a wide range of options for cupcakes 
in Pittsburgh. Evaluating environment, 
taste, originality, and price, the authors 
share substantial information regarding 
the art of finding the best cupcake in 
town.
1year ago
March 28, 2011
Professor William Red Whittaker, 
a robotics expert who worked on 
the 1979 Three Mile Island incident, 
gives a lecture hosted by the Civil and 
Environmental Engineering department. 
He is a leading member of a team 
involved in a Google competition to 
land a robot on the moon.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.02.1211
Bee Thomas by Adelaide Cole
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
ajcole@andrew
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.02.12
Settler by Doghouse Diaries
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com
Fish and Bird by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
doghousediaries@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.02.1213
Solutions from March, 26, 2012
CrosswordMedium DifficultyVery Hard Difficulty
Hexadecimal Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Hexadecimal Sudoku courtesy of
 www.krazydad.com/hexsudoku/
Using traditional Sudoku rules, fill in the 16 x 16 grid with 
16 hexadecimal digits. Each row, column, and 4 x 4 block 
contains all the digits 0 to 9 and the letters A to F.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.02.12
1. Mar. honoree
2. Declaim
3. Greek goddess of fortune
4. Squelched
5. Breezy
6. Tramp
7. Male sheep
8. Sure thing
9. Copper-zinc alloy
10. Deep blue
11. Grammy winner Erykah
12. Seine feeder
13. Table scraps
21. Like some arts
25. Fores partner
26. Curators deg.
27. Dealer in textiles
29. Must
30. Skater Lipinski
31. Desktop picture
32. South African grassland
33. Baby blues
34. Official records
35. Grand
36. Apply powder to oneself
37. Go back, in a way
42. Prince Valiants wife
45. Part of ETA
46. Floor covering
49. Of little width
50. Medical
53. Bridge declaration
54. Horrify
55. Dupe
56. Bandleader Shaw
57. Chicken of the sea
58. Addition column
59. Abba of Israel
60. Appraise, charge per unit
62. Zwieback
64. Beetle juice?
65. Charlottesville sch.
1. Drunkards
5. Give it ____
9. Forbidden
14. ____ Little Tenderness
15. Dies ____
16. Broadcasting
17. Agreement
18. Hind part
19. Middle
20. A ramjet
22. Depressed spirits
23. Itty-bitty
24. Type of ray
28. Incompetent
34. Adjust
38. Paving material
39. ____-deucey
40. Alter
41. King of pop
43. Related
44. Block
47. African antelopes
48. Nah!
51. Artery that feeds the trunk
52. Jewelled crown worn by women
57. _____ is human
61. Fur hunter
63. Open, as a gate
64. Mentor
66. PDA entry
67. Cool!
68. Alamo rival
69. Delhi wrap
70. Good _____
71. Fire
72. Plumlike fruit
ACROSSDOWN
Faith, Trust, and Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Take it from an old spectator. Lifes not a spectator sport. 
If watchin is all youre gonna do, then youre gonna watch 
your life go by without ya. Laverne (The Hunchback of 
Notre Dame)
taurus
april 20may 20
Oh yes, the past can hurt. But from the way I see it, you 
can either run from it, or learn from it. Rafiki (The Lion 
King)
gemini
may 21june 21
When you find out who you are, youll find out what you 
need. Mama Odie (Princess and the Frog)
cancer
june 22july 22
The truth sounds insane sometimes, but that doesnt mean 
its not the truth. Linguini (Ratatouille)
leo
july 23aug. 22 
A lie keeps growing and growing until its as plain as the 
nose on your face. The Blue Fairy (Pinnocchio)
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Around here, however, we dont look backwards for very 
long. We keep moving forward, opening up new doors and 
doing new things, and curiosity keeps leading us down new 
paths.Walt Disney (Meet the Robinsons)
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Youre mad, bonkers, off your head. But I tell you a secret: 
All the best people are. Charles Kingsleigh (Alice in 
Wonderland)
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
They say if you dream a thing more than once, its sure to 
come true. Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty)
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
A woman doesnt know how precious her voice is until 
shes been silenced. Ursula (The Little Mermaid)
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Look inside yourself. You are more than what you have 
become. Mufasa (The Lion King)
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
You cant always sit in your corner of the forest and 
wait for people to come to you... you have to go to them 
sometimes. Pooh (Many Adventures of Winnie The 
Pooh)
pisces
feb. 19march 20
The very things that hold you down are going to lift you 
up. Timothy Mouse (Dumbo)
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.02.1215
MONDAY4.2.12
School of Architecture Lecture. Carnegie Museum of 
Art Theater. 6 p.m.
Peter Stutchbury, of the acclaimed Austrailian ?rm Peter 
Stutchbury Architecture, will present the Hans Vetter 
Memorial Lecture, By the Light - of the Silvery Moon.
Julianna Barwick. The Underground. 7:30 p.m.
Brooklyn-based musician Julianna Barwick will perform 
at the Underground. Johanna Soderlund, a Bachelor of 
Humanities and Arts junior in music and global studies, 
will open for Barwick. The concert is sponsored by AB 
Underground.
TUESDAY4.3.12
Grateful Dead Night. Brillobox. 9 p.m. 21+.
Guests will listen to live, studio, and outtake tracks in a 
casual social setting. Tuesdays event is the ?fth in the 
series of Dead Night gatherings, which takes place on the 
?rst Tuesday of each month.
Cloud Nothings. Brillobox. 9:30 p.m. 21+.
The Cleveland-based indie rock band will perform at 
brillobox with A Classic Education and Pet Clinic.
WEDNESDAY4.4.12
Ron Wilson Trio Featuring Lou Stellute. Papa Js 
Ristorante. 7 p.m.
Pittsburgh Jazz Hall of Fame saxophonist Lou Stellute will 
appear with the classic jazz group.
THURSDAY4.5.12
ToonSeum MiniCon. 113 N. Paci?c Ave. 6 p.m.
This two-day expo will celebrate the art of cartooning with 
a series of workshops and discussion panels as part of 
a larger effort to foster the arts in Pittsburgh. The expo 
continues through 9 p.m. on Friday.
FRIDAY4.6.12
1,2,3. Rex Theater. 8 p.m. 21+.
Pittsburgh-based indie rock group 1,2,3 will perform with 
Mariage Blanc and Pet Clinic.
The Whiskey Holler EP Release Show. Howlers 
Coyote Cafe. 8 p.m.
The event will celebrate the release of HiveSongs, The 
Whiskey Hollers ?rst EP.
SATURDAY4.7.12
Inhabit Host Skull: Part Four. 707 Penn Ave. Time 
TBA.
The Pittsburgh/Santa Fe band Host Skull will showcase 
its ?rst art installation. Part four of the Host Skull Festival 
features a ?lm presentation by the Dock Ellis Perforated 
Heads Society and a performance by Pittsburgh musician 
and artist Matt Wellins. All events are free.
SUNDAY4.8.12
Shabazz Palaces. Shadow Lounge. 10 p.m. 18+.
VIA and 92.1 WPTS present the Seattle-based hip-hop 
collective Shabazz Palaces, which will perform with 
Expensive Shit and Tracksploitation. Tickets are $10 in 
advance and $15 at the door.
ONGOING
Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival. Through 
April 15.
The festival continues with a screening of the ?lm 5 
Broken Cameras and an appearance by the ?lms director, 
Emad Burnat, next Thursday. Iranian ?lm Mourning and 
Romanian/Hungarian ?lm Best Intentions will show later in 
the week, and the festivals closing night will feature Black 
Butter?ies, a German, Dutch, and South African ?lm.
Spring Flower Show. Phipps Conservatory. Through 
April 15.
This seasons display features a celebration of gardens 
from around the globe, including plants from the South 
Paci?c, Greece, China, France, and the United Kingdom. 
A special display of Dutch tulips will be showcased.
Native Pennsylvania, A Wild?ower Walk. Fifth ?oor, 
Hunt Library. Through June 29.
This collaborative exhibition between the Hunt Institute 
and the Carnegie Museum of Natural Historys 
botany department celebrates Pennsylvanias natural 
environment, featuring collections of plants and 
watercolors.
Gestures: Intimate Friction. The Mattress Factory. 
Through Nov. 30.
Carnegie Mellon adjunct associate professor of 
architecture Mary-Lou Arscott guest curates this 
collaborative exhibit featuring installations by artists, 
architects, and activists. The exhibit is displayed at the 
museums location on 1414 Monterey St.
UPCOMING
Art in Bloom. Carnegie Museum of Art. April 1215.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents its fourth annual 
Art in Bloom celebration, which features a Dutch-inspired 
collection of art and ?owers and a series of festivities. 
Pittsburgh-area garden clubs, organizations, and ?orists 
arrange the ?oral displays.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Assistant Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 04.02.12
Jennifer Coloma | Photo Staff
Students, including senior mechanical engineering major Mike Mackin (above left), participated in a paper 
airplane-?ying competition hosted by Red Bull last Thursday in Wiegand Gymnasium. There were three 
winners from Carnegie Mellon: Doctoral candidate in civil and environmental engineering Jeff Taneja 
won for distance, ?fth-year architecture student Sam Faller won for hang time, and junior statistics major 
Doug Heckmann won for aerobatics.
paper airplanes.
