The Carneg ie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1942
Stephen Vincent Benet, wellknown American poet and novelist, 
will be the principal speaker at 
Authors Night, which will be held 
this evening in Carnegie Music Hall 
at 8:15 P. M. Pittsburghs Book 
Fair will be celebrated at the Car
negie Library in Oakland with a 
Book Show and lectures by visiting 
authors. Both features will be free 
to visitors throughout the entire 
week. Visiting hours are from 9 A. 
M. to 9 P. M. today, tomorrow 
Thursday, and Friday and from 9 
A. M. to 6 P. M. on Saturday. Gen
eral theme of the show is Books 
in a World at War.
A graduate of Yale, Stephen 
Benet first achieved recognition for 
his novel, The Beginning of Wis
dom, which was published after the 
first World War. He next received 
attention for his long narrative 
poem, which is a complete book, 
John Browns Body. At the moment, 
Mr. Benet is concentrating on short 
stories, and within the last six 
months all his published tales have 
been collected in two volumes.
Other celebrities helping to ob
serve Authors Night are: Carl
Carmer, author of the famous Stars 
Fell on Alabama, Captain John 
Craige, author of What the Citizen 
Should Know About the Marines, 
and Stefan Heym, who is a refugee 
and author of Hostages. No tickets 
will be required for admittance.
Tomorrow night, Childrens Book 
Night opens in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall at 8:15 P. M. Robert Lawson, 
notable as the illustrator of Ferdi
nand and Wee Gillis, will be the 
main speaker. Free tickets may be 
secured at the Carnegie Library and 
its branches. The Book Show dis
plays, sent by fifty of the nations 
leading publishers, will be exhibited 
every night. Open House will be 
held in all departments of Carnegie 
Library, including printing and 
book-binding, on Friday and Sat
urday nights.
Dorm Council to Back 
Recent P. R. Proposal
Recently the Dorm Council made 
its bid for representation in the Stu
dent Council, if that body becomes 
the dominant council on campus. 
The general feeling is that dorm 
men do not want to be ruled by fra
ternities, and that is exactly what 
would happen should Student Coun
cil take over now.
Along with its decision to attempt 
getting a Mens Dorm representative 
on Student Council, and in keeping 
with its policy, Dorm Council voted 
its official backing of the Propor
tional Representation system pro
posed in last weeks Tartan, and, at 
the same time, threw its hat in the 
polticial ring. A committee of one 
man from each dorm was formed to 
decide the policies of the council 
in regard to cooperation with other 
independent groups on campus, par
ticularly Citcom Clait
night and also with the Kiltie Band between halves at the Pitt game through the 
courtesy of J. P. Harris. Miss Brown attended the University of Southern Calijornia 
and learned to ice-skate there. She thinks the Kiltie Band is tops.
Dorrie Piper Informs Campus 
Of Waves Activities in Letter
Dorothy Piper, who graduated 
from the General Studies Depart
ment of; Maf'garet Morrison last 
April, is now an Officer Candidate 
for the WAVES. The following let
ter to Mrs. Jessie Yon presents an 
interesting first-hand report of her 
novel experiences as a new member 
of the United States Navy.
U. S. Naval Training School 
Smith College
Northampton, Massachusetts 
October 12, 1942 
Dear Mrs. Yon,
I can hardly believe that Im up 
here and the first week is over. Oc
tober seemed so very far away last 
summer when I came to see you.
It seems strange to be back in 
school again, but with a sea of en
tirely unfamiliar faces and names. 
Getting acquainted up here is quite 
different from meeting people at 
Tech. No Big and Little Sister Tea, 
no Freshman Reception, no sorority 
rushing. You learn the names and 
faces of the people who march be
side you and your roommatesand 
from there on its up to you. I sup
pose when we get our uniforms we 
will have more of a feeling of be
longing here.
The first few days we were here 
there was a universal sighing over 
our high heels and sheer stockings 
of the past. Tell the girls at Tech 
that they havent really felt low un
til the first time they put on lowheeled black oxfords and lisle hose.
Ugh! But you soon get hardened 
to it. My pride may have suffered 
but not my appetite. Fortunately, 
the food is pretty good, but I think I 
would appreciate it more if I saw a 
few more people from Tech.
As a rule the folks Ive met up 
here have been very fine, but I do 
miss the old familiar faces. I meant 
to stop on campus for an afternoon 
before leaving Pittsburgh, but I had 
about two hours between leaving 
the office and catching a train, so I 
didnt do much of anything.
Please remember that the civil
ians duty is to keep up the morale 
of the Army and Navy, and the best 
way to do that is to send them mail, 
knit them sweaters and bake cook
ies. Now I can knit my own sweat
ers, and we eat all the time any
way so any more cookies would just 
make me fatter, but I would hate to 
be reduced to writing letters to my
self. I know you are terribly busy 
yourself, but you might suggest to 
the Mortar Boards that they make 
writing to the WAVES one of their 
war-time projects. The more I think 
about it the better I like the idea.
Maybe the Dragons would like to 
carry on a project like that, too. 
Im not a bit fussy. Ill read and an
swer mail from ANYBODY.
Its five minutes to ten. Taps in 
less time than it takes to address an 
envelope. Maybe I should bear a 
hand with this.
Sincerely,
Dorrie Piper.
Student Symphony Orchestra of 
Carnegie Tech, under the direction 
of Dr. J. Vick OBrien, will present 
its first concert of the season this 
Sunday in Carnegie Music Hall at 
8:15 P. M. Members of the orches
tra are music students for the most 
part, but there are a few members 
from other colleges on campus who 
play instruments sufficiently well to 
merit their participation in the or
ganization.
Techs Student Symphony was 
started in the fall of 1913 and grew 
rapidly. At first, it was the policy 
of the department to have music in
structors play the first parts in the 
orchestra; but this was given up 
shortly afterwards, for it was de
cided that the students needed the 
experience. Tech is unique in this 
practice, for many school still have 
teachers in the first chairs of their 
orchestras.
Primary purpose of the musical 
group is to give concerts and to ac
company seniors in the Music De
partment who are required to play 
concertos with the orchestra before 
their graduation.
Program for this Sundays concert 
is as follows:
Beethoven................... ..........Concerto No. 5
for Piano and Orchestra 
Robert Drumm, piano
Chopin.........................Concerto in F minor
for Piano and Orchestra 
Gloria Siegle, piano 
Tchaikowsky.. ...............Symphony No. 5
Tickets of admittance may be se
cured today from Miss Lawton in 
the Music Office, Room 153, Arts.
Parisian Dance Closes 
Dorm Social Season
The All Dorm Dance scheduled 
for November 7 is strictly a hushhush affair; however, the following 
meager details were pried from a 
very reticent dance committee.
Couples will dance from nine un
til one in a Parisian cabaret setting 
to the tunes of Tommy Whitelys 
West Virginia Steelers. The deco
rations will be of an entirely differ
ent nature than any others ever 
used before, and will be planned to 
make the dance a long remembered 
affair.
Dancing will be held in the 
gymnasium, and as is the custom, it 
will be free to all Dorm residents 
and their dates. Any others com
ing will be charged admission.
This dance is to be a climax to the 
Dorms social activities for this 
semester. For the last few weeks, 
these activities have consisted of 
parties by each dorm for the rest of 
the dorms; however, the dance is 
under the supervision of the Dorm 
Council as a whole.
Stephen Vincent Benet 
Speaks At Book Fair 
In Carnegie Museum
OBrien Directs 
Tech Symphony

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1942
Scientific Representation
Is This Democracy?
No democratic government should be set so definitely that it cannot be 
changed to a form that is considered still more democratic. Before stu
dent council is a plan for replacing our present method of election with that 
of proportional representation. We believe it to be much more democratic 
than the plan now used since it will elect a council that is representative 
of the voters.
In ancient Greece a simple majority rule was true democracy. That 
held as long as the citizens voted directly for all the issues. Today at Tech, 
however, we elect representatives by a simple majority; the council thus 
elected can then pass laws by majority vote. This council does not rep
resent the student body, but only the majority vote of the student body. 
Consequently, issues can be passed by council members representing less 
than fifty-one per cent of the voting students, and even as low as 26 per 
cent of the voters.
Minority Protection
If we had a two party system at Tech, the minority would be given a 
fair hearing because it would represent a definite threat to the party in 
power. At Tech, however, no two party system is capable of existence. The 
fraternity combine is very powerful, and the independent organizations are 
barely able to perpetuate themselves, much less swing elections. Under the 
conditions that now exist, elections are a farce, and we are being run by 
one group. We do not blame the fraternities for their position in the polit
ical scheme, for complete campus power is as much forced on them, as it is 
restricted from the minority independents. Having pointed out a means 
of helping balance the scale of representation, we see no reason why it 
should not be passed. It would give the politically disfranchised a small 
voice in the government at present, and promise the fraternities a future 
voice if ever they were outvoted.
Lets Trust Our Deity
Proportional representation is not a cure all. We do not believe that 
there is any system so perfect that once set up will solve all the problems 
that might arise. Similarly, we have no faith in any system that could 
cure the evils of non-voting. This is demonstrated by the trouble our park 
partners Pitt are having with their ideal set up. There is a dynamism 
that should mark progressive government, a willingness to change when 
necessary; and, in addition, a steady progression toward a better form and 
practice. P. R. is not a half-baked scheme thought-up by students. It is a 
tried plan and has worked successfully when wisely used. It is a plan of 
election that is recommended by the majority of modern political science 
text books. It is a scientific method of boosing representatives; and it be
hooves us, a scientific school, to demonstrate our trust in our science and 
democracy, and vote for P. R.
PR In a' Nutshell
P. R. is a little difficult to explain in an editorial; so we advise you who 
are interested to attend the open meeting of the Tech Discussion Group 
today in 229C I. H. Student Government on the Campus is the topic, and 
the benefits of P. R. will be discussed. If enough interest is forthcoming, 
perhaps a student assembly could be used to advantage in discussing P. R. 
and other possible improvements for Techs democracy.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
TTTheCa ron hreCahrn rgiTeCtCha Sp After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief................ ........sc. 9070
College Publishers Representative Business Manager..........................SC. 9855
VcB ,rgCtah wl-k oAm davsk okdkcmoco  Bos IsT  Lot AwaiLg  hiT Deimeomcos Advertising Manager......................BR. 4759
Entered aa second-class matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief.................................................................................................Leonard Chotiner
Business Manager....................... ........................................................................Ted Nierenberq
Co-Managing Editors....................................................................................................   Jack ShoreWalter Haller
Co-Copy Editors...........................................................................................Stanley A. Rosecrans
Jeanne King
Staff Secretary..................................................................................................................Pat Elmjln
Sports Editor...............................................................................................*        Por}T WatkinsPersonnel Manager.............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
Advertising Manager................;............................................................................Wilbur Thomas
Circulation Manager..............................................................................................Staff Artist............................................................. ...................................................Elliott Twery
Staff Photographer.................................................................................................Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.
Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin, Ed Goldstein.
Reporters: Geri Racusin, Norma Caplan, Ruth Nieman, Lola Patton, Alice Sofis, AlanSchneider, Aron C. Beck, Allan Golden, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kalb, Iris Kwall.
On the Campus
Leave all notices for ON THE CAMPUS 
in J'ech P. O. Box 409 by Friday noon of 
the week before publication.
Cwen-Scimitar Tea Dance
First socializing of the week will be 
the heap-big combination Cwen-Scimitar 
Tea Dance being held in Thistle Hall this 
afternoon. In this corner, wearing the 
red jackets and gray skirts, the Cwens; 
and on my right, sporting the white crewcaps, the Scimitars.
Ruff-N-Tuff Travelers
Apparently not satisfied with the Phys. 
Ed. Departments toughening course, this 
group of Citcom hikers will hold their 
third hike this Sunday afternoon. They 
will meet under Kaufmanns clock at 1:30 
P. M. and board a street-car for the start 
of the trek at Castle Shannon._________
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
P. M.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Frey, Hoppel, 
and Miss Gehrett.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget Committee
Mr. Shewitz read a letter from the Tar
tan asking for an increase of $300 in the 
Tartan budget. The reason for this re
quest is that national advertising has de
creased, and also because the staff would 
like to continue publishing the Tartanette. The matter was referred to the 
Treasurer.
Social Committee 
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval 
of a petition from the Womens Guild to 
change the date of their Tag Day from 
Tuesday, October 27, to Wednesday, No
vember 18.
Motion carried.
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval of 
a petition from the Cwens and Scimitars 
to hold a tea dance on November 3 in 
Thisitle Hall from four until six oclock; 
this motion was made with the provision 
that arrangements can be made with the 
administration for the use of Thistle Hall.
Motion carried.
Assefnblies 
The next assembly will be one for 
freshman men on November 3, 1942. 
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval of 
a petition to hold the elections for Engi
neering Senate on November 17, and for 
an all-school election on November 24.
Motion carried.
Publications Committee 
Mr. Munyer moved for the acceptance 
of the revisions in the by-laws of .the Stu
dent Council Constitution. A copy of the 
revisions is on file in the Student Council 
Office.
Motion carried.
CIT Defense Committee 
Mr. Boyce reported that he had attended 
a meeting of the committee. He said that 
the iaculty were co-operating very well, 
but that student co-operation is very lax. 
Permanent Decorations Committee
Mr. Reisacher moved that any organiza
tion that wishes to use the permanent 
decorations for an all-school event be 
charged from $30 to $50, depending upon 
the budget of the particular organization, 
this amount to be decided by the Budget 
Chairman, the Treasurer, and the Chair
man of the Permanent Decorations Com
mittee. Any individual organization not 
sponsoring an all-school event is to be 
charged 15 per cent of the value of the 
equipment they borrow. The borrowing 
organization will be responsible for re
placing at the cost price any material not 
returned as borrowed.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS 
Miss Agnes Aronson asked that Tech 
participate in the International Student 
Service activities on November 17. Mr. 
Van Arsdell appointed Miss Zonge to look 
into the matter and report to Council 
next week.
Mr. McDonald read a proposed plan for 
the composition and election of Student 
Council. The plan involves a method 
known as proportional representation. 
Mr. Bluestein and Mr. Nierenberg an
swered questions asked by Council mem
bers in the ensuing discussion. Mr. Van 
Arsdell appointed Mr. McDonald, Mr. 
Schatz, and Mr. Spitaleri to look into the 
matter and report to Council at the next 
meeting.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,LUCILLE ORR, Secretary.
Cue For Blood Donors !
blood k
out Mm mas
||p||f G
M ^ 
a
iPil i1131 &t % -'HI
mm
tv ,|Ilf 'BgSSl X ; SpfSi HWMm \ ;
Bil
m * fflSW JMbfr& mH
f| , ^P wliMWm ^
Photo by Bill Hulslander
Miss June Cooper points to the 1,000 
pints goal for the Tech blood donor cam
paign. Pledges are still being accepted by 
Miss Cooper in Room 155A.
Gals Intramural KocRey
W. A. A. announces another contest of 
thrills, spills, and chills to be held to
morrow afternoon at 3:30 on the Cut. We 
refer, of course, to the Intramural Hockey 
game which will be played by the gals 
of Gamma Phi Sigma and the chullin of 
Alpha Theta Sigma.
Citcom Gals, Attention!
Betty McNair, Womens Activities Chair
man, has spotted a meeting of the Citcom 
Clan Women for tomorrow afternoon at 
4:30 in Room 114 of Maggy Murph.
Bible Club * '
Members of the Bible Club announce a 
meeting for tomorrow night at 7 oclock 
in the Activities Room of Student Union. 
We believe that this meeting will be of 
great interest to every student on campus 
because of the guest speaker,. Rev. Bruce 
F. Hunt. He will tell of his experiences 
during four separate imprisonments by 
the Japanese.
Military Sec/ieti
Army . . .
Colonel Fred T. Bass, Professor of 
Military Science and Tactics, has 
just been notified by the War De
partment that students in the En
listed Reserve Corps, except Ad
vanced Corps Reserve Officers 
Training Corps Students, may apply 
at any time for transfer to the Army 
Air Corps Enlisted Reserve. All ap
plications will be forwarded to the 
commanding general of the service 
command in which the college is lo
cated, and each applicant will be af
forded an opportunity to appear be
fore an Air Corps Cadet Examining 
Board for the required physical and 
mental examinations. If he success
fully passes these examinations, he 
will be transferred to the Army Air 
Corps Reserve. If not selected by 
the Air Corps Examining Board, he 
will continue in his status in the 
Army Enlisted Reserve Corps. 
Navy . . .
Navy Department announces that 
the College Procurement Program, 
which appointed members of the 
Junior and Senior classes as Proba
tionary Ensigns, has been closed.
Hereafter, all college students 
will be enlisted in either class V-l, 
V-5, or V-7. It was emphasized that 
the age limit for the V-l program 
has been changed from twenty to 
twenty-six years.
Those students enlisted in the 
Navy Reserve, classes V-l, V-5, and 
V-7, are not permitted to send their 
mail free. Only men in active serv
ice are entitled to free postage.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Photo by Dick Bingham
cttaupL And 'Wlufi
Household Ec?s Gain Experience 
In Margaret Morrison Tearoom
By Louisa Saul
On the third floor of Margaret 
Morrison, amidst a pleasant atmo
sphere, the seniors in the Depart
ment of Household Economics learn 
the hows and whys of institutional 
management. Every Thursday from 
11:30 to 1:00, the Tearoom is open 
to the public, and it is through this 
medium that the girls majoring in 
Food and Nutrition gain practical 
experience in quantitative cookery.
The Tearoom is run on a cost 
basis so that luncheon prices are at 
a minimum. However, it is the re
sponsibility of those managing each 
meal, to so plan and so arrange it, 
that the Tearoom does not become a 
liability. At present, between six
ty and sixty-five people can be ac
commodated within the specified 
time if they are taken in two groups. 
Due to the fact that it has so far 
been impossible to accommodate all 
the faculty members and students 
desirous of varying their daily diet 
with an attractive and assuredly 
nutritious meal once a week, the 
managers have required that any 
one intending to come must sign up 
before Wednesday of each week so 
that plans can be made accordingly.
The Tearoom is a non-profit proj
ect, the main purpose of which is to 
give invaluable experience to girls 
interested in large scale food man
agement. There are, however, small 
profits from time to time due to ef
ficient planning and sale of surplus 
food such as cakes, pastry, and 
tasty soups wich are quickly pur
chased by enthusiastic patrons. 
These profits are accumulated dur
ing the year and at the close of the 
term, the girls, together with their 
adviser, Mrs. Marshall, decide upon 
some item which will add utility or 
attractiveness to the Tearoom, and 
this item is purchased. In this way 
such articles as an electric grill, a
sound proof ceiling, and an electric 
fan have been secured. The House
hold Economics Department is 
proud of the enthusiasm and suc
cess with which this project has 
met, and although they cannot al
ways take care of everyone, wish 
that all the students on campus 
could be come familiar with the ex
pert work that is being carried on 
there.
Thistle Pictures ...
Sunday, November 8 
2:00 Welch Hallfront dorm.
2:20 McGill Hallfront of dorm. 
2:45 Kappa Sigma activesat the 
Kappa Sigma House.
3:00 Kappa Sigma pledgesat the 
Kappa Sigma House.
3:15 Pi Tau Sigma.
3:30 Eta Kappa Nu.
3:45 Scarab.
4: 00 Freshmen Orientations Com
mittee.
4:15 Intramural Board.
4:30 Debating Team.
4:45 Tri-Publications Staff.
All other pictures except those 
designated above will be taken in 
front of the Carnegie Union.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
rP^0\ A Trat
$3.00 per 
Xi Month
N&wBloaa*t
Big Water Fight Ends 
In Kick Tuchman Yell
Hi diddle diddle, kick Tuchman 
in the middle, and another intra
dorm feud pokes its head above the 
turmoil of sweat and slavery that is 
Carnegie Tech. The signs, which 
everyone has seen by now, herald a 
new era here, in which one may get 
a piece of some divine bliss merely 
through the expedient of kicking 
Boss Halls ample prexy.
The trouble really started a cou
ple of weeks ago when the men of 
Boss and McGill Halls started a lit
tle innocent water-throwing.
McGill Hall, always on edge for 
excitement, organized and came 
over to duck Bosss seniors. The 
men of Boss resented the move, and 
resisted. Several attempts were 
made to start a water-fight inside 
Boss, but they were all squelched, 
especially through the firmness of 
Joe Tuchman, Boss president.
Resultall McGill was fined to 
the tune of fifty cents a man, Dave 
Drewery, McGill prexy and frosh 
adviser for that hall being fined 
$2.00 for not stopping them. Some 
of the men didnt like the fine, and 
they blamed poor Joe for imposing 
it, as could be seen all over cam
pus. Friday morning it could also 
be seen all over Tuchmans car.
Memorial Services Held 
For Deceased Professors
Memorial services will be held in 
the College of Fine Arts theater to
day at 5:00 P. M. for the late Har
old Geoghegan and Edmund Marion 
Ashe, who were instructors at Tech.
Professor Geoghegan, who died 
on September 4, 1942, taught art 
history here from 1911-1942. Pro
fessor Ashe who was with the Paint
ing and Design Department from 
1920 to 1939, died on May 22, 1942.
President Doherty will preside at 
the services. All friends of the de
ceased are invited to attend.
oviatum
The Carnegie Tartan wishes to 
correct an error made in last weeks 
paper. The head of the Carnegie 
Tech Blood Donor Drive is Profes
sor Parisi and not Mr. Davis, as was 
erroneously reported.
Beacon Theatre
Corner Murray and Beacon
FOR FIVE DAYS
Nov. 4-8 Wed. thru Sun.
First Run in Squirrel Hill
The Talk of the Town'
VVVVVVol.VVVVVV
MARCH OF TIME 
F.B.I. FRONT
STUDENTS!
SuitsDresses RQc
Cleaned and Presaed..
SlacksSweaters 
Cleaned and Pressed..
Campus Cleaners
4600 Forbes Street
We Call and Deliver
iM
Come to GimbeVs
Apply 10th Floor at Employment
Office
GIMBEL BROS. DEPT. STORE
Bring your Social Security Card along when applying
HSwitch to 3/umk,66 Baffle Filter Thrills Smokers
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, 
AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New YorkThe scientific, 
absorbent filter has contributed 
mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men ana 
women who have switched 
to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel 
through 60 baffles before reaching the mouth. Flakes and 
slugs are trapped; and the oke is whirl-cooled as it windssmo___________________its way through the filter.FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

4TH CARNEGIE A&tAtfTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1943
Just in case you dont recognize 
him without the camera, the man in 
the picture is Horatio Nelson 
Crooks. Were not kiddingthats 
really his name.
If you havent seen Nelson around 
lately, we. can tell you why. He is 
spending his spare time in the base
ment of the Beta house where hes 
building a dark-room. Since grad
uation is in December, he is working 
frantically to get it finished.
Nelson has taken pictures for al
most every publication on campus. 
Never seen without his famous cam
era under one arm, he usually carsamples of new print in 
pocket. Youll find that a 
percentage of those prints are 
Orr, his Beta girl.
Speaking of Lu, one of Nelsons 
greatest moments must have been 
when he, as cadet captain, present
ed her with the insignia of honorary 
cadet colonel. We wonder who gives 
the orders in this colonel-captain 
combination.
THE
PLACE TO EAT 
OAKLAND
BILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Colorful Band Wins New Admirers; 
Six Members Sell War Stamps, Bonds
Never in the history of Buffalo 
has a musical organization put on 
such a fine show at a football game. 
Thats what the Buffalo Press had 
to say about our Kiltie bands per
formance at the Tech-Buffalo game.
The band members worked for all 
the honors they won. They led a 
three-mile parade from band head
quarters (The Statler Hotel) 
through the city to the municipal 
stadium. Between halves, the band 
wowed em. They came out on the 
field with the same bomber forma
tion used in the Pitt game, and end
ed the drill on a patriotic note with 
the playing of My Country Tis of 
Thee in a U.S.A. formation. So jubi
lant were they after the teams vic
tory that they covered the three 
miles back across the city in 35 min
utes flat! Tech songs went over big
gest in a half-hour concert given for 
the guests back at the hotel.
Saturday mgnt the colorful Kil
ties doffed the plaid and became 
the fellows. Some went to shows; 
some went to Niagara Falls. Fifth 
columnists Russel Hunter and Cliff 
Taylor were arrested for taking pic
tures of the waterfront. (They were 
released after the film was confiscat
ed.) Six fellows, still in their uni
forms, spent the evening in the War 
Stamp Booth of the Great Lakes 
Theater working for Uncle Sam. 
Dick Hudson, the barker for the out
fit, attracted potential war stamp 
buyers; Chris Bauer, Jerry Heatter, 
and Bob Deisler enticed them with
LOST
Wine-coloredcable stitch
SWEATER
Zipper frontLong sleeves
Leave note on M. M. C. C. 
Freshman Bulletin Board 
for
Adeline Herlick
the fling (da-dum, da-dum, ta da da 
da da ta-dum, KICK), and Jack' 
White and Jack Thompson collected 
the dough. The six of them sold 
$175.00 worth of stamps and bonds, 
breaking all records for that booth!
The train ride both ways was a 
whiz-bang affair. On the way to 
Buffalo the plebes were given very 
special treatmentthey each had to 
bring cigars for Mr. Morrow, the 
conductor, and polishing cloths to 
shine the upperclassmens instru
ments. Going home, someone found 
that the cast of Tobacco Road was 
on the same train. The band went 
back to their car for an impromptu 
talent display. One of the girls in 
the cast sang Tangerine and The 
White Cliffs of Dover with band 
accompaniment. A rousing march 
by the band and a solo by the bag
pipers led up to the climax of the 
evening. Vic Carluccis wild clari
net, Don Embergs solid trombone, 
and Chris Bauers hot trumpet took 
off on Lou Levis rhythm until they 
had the OP train itself rockin out 
the beat. Yeah, man!
Techites deserve to be proud 
when they remember that this colcolorful spirited bunch represents 
their school!
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY 18 REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS 

MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
Seniors  Notice
ORDER 
CLASS DEGREE RINGS
one of the boys
. . . Nelson Crooks
Nelsons second pride and joy is 
the Signal Corps in which he is a 
company commander. Last Thurs
day, one of his platoons won the 
prize in the drill competition.
Always interested in campus ac
tivities, Nelson holds high positions. 
He is treasurer of Tau Beta Pi, Cap
tain of the Varsity Soccer team, a 
member of the Y Cabinet and of Al
pha Tau Omega, past-president of 
Beta Theta Pi, and past-Editor of 
the Thistle.
This Physics senior has never 
subordinated scholarship to activi
ties. Proof of that is the fact that 
he is a charter member of O. D. K., 
national senior honorary. He was 
also a member of the Scimitar and 
Delta Skull Societies.
*i never saw a fighting man who 
didn*t cherish the very thought of 
a pause with Coca-Cola. That 
goes for workers in fac
tories, too. Ice-cold Coke 
is something more than 
the drink that answers 
thirst. It adds the feel of 
refreshment.
Mln war, Uncle Sam re
stricts the supply. But 
theres still enough for 
many refreshing pauses.**
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
AT ONCE
Rings ordered on or before Friday, Novem
ber 27, 1942, will be ready for delivery before 
Commencement, December 20, 1942.
ALUMNI OFFICE THE UNION
lllilllllllllllll

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1942THE CARNEGIE TAUTAJN5
Panthers Down Tech Gridders, 19-6, 
In Hard Fought Homecoming Battle
Covering themselves with glory, 
the vaunted warriors of Skibo bat
tled till the end on a muddy grid
iron; and finally bowed in defeat at 
the claws of the Pitt Panther, in the 
homecoming clash last Saturday in 
the Stadium.
Inspired play of the scrappy Tar
tans, who were out-weighed 20 
pounds to ai man, held the Blue and 
Gold on even terms to the last quar
ter. Carnegies forward wall held 
like steel, stopping drive after drive 
that the Panthers threw at it. Then, 
in the final period, the defense, 
weakened by the loss of Byers, 
Jones, Lindberg, D. Burns, and 
Pantell, gave ground to the Cats 
two big drives of 81 and 44 yards.
Pitts first score came as a result 
of bad breaks. Tech made a goal 
line stand and halted the opponents 
on the eleven. After an exchange 
of punts, McLaughlins fumble was 
snagged up by Dutton who scored 
four plays later from the Tech six 
yard stripe.
Tech returned the kickoff sixtysix yards on passes from McLaugh
lin to Byers, Weise, and Neuman; 
the last was good for thirty-five 
yards. This drive was halted on the 
Pitt fifteen when Kyle intercepted 
the next pass. Pitt stormed back 
on ground plays to the Tech fortyfour. At this point Fritz and Lind
say were carried off the field. The 
Carnegie line charged right back; 
Purcell blocked Duttons pass at
tempt, and Donnie Burns grabbed 
it and scampered fifty-four yards to 
score the lone Tech touchdown. *
Pitt started its second scoring 
drive from its own twelve yard line 
after a brilliant sixty-one yard punt 
by Carnahan had driven them back. 
DiMatteo made fifty-one yards in 
six tries. Tech again made another 
goal line stand and stopped the 
threat on the 5, when Pash jumped 
on a fumble.
The wear of the battle was mak
ing itself felt, Tech was weakened 
by the withdrawal of six starting 
players. Pitt again charged back 
after Carnahan had kicked them out
of scoring territory. DiMatteo, the 
Pitt halfback finally hit pay dirt 
from the Tech 6 on an off-tackle 
smash. The Panthers came back a 
few minutes later to score again; 
Saksa on a reverse ran over tackle 
to the Carnegie 15, lateraled to Dut
ton on the side line, who scored un
molested. West kicked the pointafter, making the score 19-6.
The never-say-die of the Skibos 
still fought on, and threatened to 
score. Jack McLaughlin asserted 
himself as a great passer, complet
ing seven out of eleven tries for 68 
yards before he was stopped by an 
interception on the Pitt 30 yard line. 
Every man on the Tartan eleven 
looked good in defeat, making it 
hard to point out an individual 
standout.
Soccer Team Wins One 
Of First Three Games
Playing four games in eight days, 
the Carnegie Booters ended the 
week with one win and three losses. 
The Tartans topped Allegheny 1-0 
in a close contest last Tuesday to 
chalk up their first win of the sea
son; however, their spirits were con
siderably dampened when they 
were taken the next day by the 
Penn Institute for the Deaf to the 
tune of a 3-2 tally.
Last Saturday our booters were 
defeated 1-0 by Oberlin, the point 
being scored in the second half by 
Hayden. A week ago Saturday the 
Skibos were downed 3-2 in a hardfought game with Geneva.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
HELP WANTED
All Day Saturdays and Monday Evenings
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED 
IN WORKING
ATKAUFMANNS
COME TO OUR
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE ON THE 10TH FLOOR
AT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
FOR AN INTERVIEW
KAUFMANNS
FIFTH AND SMITHFIELD
Touch Football Playoffs 
To Be Held This Week
Last weeks football games, de
cided the winners of the three 
leagues. Coming out on top for the 
Independents were the Zoot Suits of 
League III. In League II the PiKAs 
managed to defeat the Theta Xis 
21-15, to take first place. The Phi 
Kaps of League I were defeated by 
the Beta Sigma Rhos, score of 35-30, 
putting them in the play off posi
tion. These three teams will play
off this week to determine the cham
pion intramural football team of the 
season. The Beta Sig manager drew 
a bye for his team in these final 
eliminations. This means that the 
winner of the PiKA and Zoots will 
meet the Beta Sigs in the decisive 
game.
All three teams are the pick of 
the leagues as elimination have 
shown. It is hard to predict who 
will be the winner. The Zoots will 
have stiff competition considering 
their opposition and depending upon 
who they will play. Hofmann, tail
back and passer extraordinary for 
the PiKAs, and Brinn the super 
pass receiver of the Beta Sigs are 
the strong men of these squads, the 
big trouble-makers. All teams will 
have to play hard heads-up ball. 
Such an incident as managed the 
defeat of the Phi Kaps, first from 
the Kappa Sigs and then the Beta 
Sigs, which was over confidence 
when they sustained a lead, does not 
dare occur. It is usually fatal.
Harriers Triumph Over 
Bethany, Westminster
Last Friday the Tech Harriers 
romped over the Schenley Park 
course to defeat Bethany 23-32. Fin
ishing first was Bill Beamer of 
Tech who just edged out Nestell of 
Bethany. Finley of Bethany finish
ed a half minute behind Nestell to 
win third place. The other places 
went to Tech men. Paul Rotzler took 
fourth, followed by Ben Marcin, 
Puchaski, Teasdale, Kelsey, Teresi, 
and Simon.
The Bethany meet was the second 
win of the season for the Tech boys, 
who, the week before won a close 
one over a strong Westminster 
Team. The freshmen are responsi
ble to a large extent for the suc
cess of the team. Had it not been 
for Teasdale, Kelsey, Green, and 
Alexander, freshmen numerals win
ners, the team might not have been 
so successful.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
TYPEWRISCIamp
But laundry Problems? NO!
Even a Freshman soon learns how to handle Laundry 
Problemsjust send your laundry home by Railway 
Expressand have it returned to you the same way. 
Youll find its really no problem at all.
Low rates include pick-up and delivery at no extra charge, 
within our regular vehicle limits, in all cities and principal 
towns. Your laundry can be sent prepaid or collect, as you 
choose. Psst! Send and receive baggage, gifts, etc. the 
same convenient way.
XPRESS
agency ymr inc. 
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 19423Ttie Carnegie plaid
Registration Card Is 
Ticket For Admission 
To 1st College Dance
That long awaited moment is near 
at hand. Whether you be from Arts, 
Industries, or Engineering, you may 
attend the first dance of the season 
at Thistle Hall simply upon pre
sentation of your registration card, 
/our Mends may attend upon pay
ment of an assessment of $1.10.
In an endeavor to provide the 
campus with something definitely 
new and in the way of a band, the 
officers have been canvassing the 
district for the past three or four 
Weeks. Although they refuse to di
vulge the name of the band at the 
present time, they definitely prom
ise a band of superior quality whose 
music will be pleasing to all the 
students.
Because of the long delay in ob
taining an opening for a dance, this 
promises to be a superb occasion. 
Decorations will be in complete 
- harmony with the season.
The Black Cat Room will be open 
for those desiring refreshments and 
maybe in the cozy atmosphere, new 
friends will be made and old ac
quaintances renewed.
Student Council Officers have 
been working hard on plans for 
this dance, and feel sure that they 
have something truly different to 
present to the students.
HandbookStudents Aid
Every year, and this being no ex
ception, students enjoy a gift from 
Student Council in the form of a 
Handbook.
This is probably the most com
plete manual published. It contains rules governing students on the 
campus, along with th history of 
the institution. All the interesting 
facts and high-lights of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology are enumerat
ed.
In the past, students have fought 
for this priceless possession, but 
now now, in the interest of expedi
ency, one is available at little ex
pense of energy. Simply present 
your registration card at the Regis
trars Office and you will receive 
the handbook.
Student Air Raid 
Wardens Needed
Evening School students or fac
ulty members who are qualified as 
Air Raid Wardens or who have Red 
Cross First Aid Certificates are 
needed to man the first aid and shel
ter zone stations in case of an eve
ning alert.
Volunteers are requested to leave 
a copy of their schedules with Mr. 
McKelway, the evening Registrar, 
in the Registrars Office, which is 
open from seven to nine oclock 
every evening.
The Defense courses with their 
large enrollment, and various other 
activities on campus, make it dif
ficult for the present wardens to 
handle the situation adequately dur
ing an air raid.
Last Monday nights surprise 
practice was just one of a series of 
alerts, most of which will be held 
in the evening. Do your bit for the 
War program by serving as Warden 
during these air raid practices. It 
takes only a little time and will be 
greatly appreciated.
"la *7<4e CdUasi
Im not complaining, just making 
a suggestion. Dont you think it 
would stimulate interest in the Lit
tle Theater productions if we could 
have a review club? Knowing 
whats going on makes a play much 
more interesting for me as Im sure 
it would be for the average person. 
Evening school students are very 
enthusiastic about reviewing the 
plays, since a great many of us at
tend them. Some of the plays that 
are given are unfamiliar, and unless 
one is a dramatic student, one cant 
really enjoy them. For instance, 
last weeks production, Shaws 
Heartbreak House, would have 
been more enjoyable for me, had I 
known what to expect. Day school 
students have had the benefit of a 
review club, why cant we? (Sign
ed) M. W.
We will give anyone who feels 
qualified the opportunity of writ
ing this review. Thanks for the 
suggestion and we promise to give 
it consideration. The Ed.
Write for chart picturing 
1 18 beautiful all-smooth 
. models, telling benefits of
riay?Msnh tiI?PI? BmMI?a
Also same styles, all-etched,
]\\ with Eagle or "V engraved 
PATRIOTIC EMBLEMS 
UlilPPPfniliWi specially designed for men in 
ji engraved on ill service an tcell as civilians.* j| ETCHED BOWL j3 Co.. Inc.. N.Y-A
Johnny Castellano is really be
hind that ball these last two weeks 
it isnt Spring and hes not 4-F 
wonder what makes him so slaphappy . . . Chick Frost deserted us 
for day school this year but his sis
ter, Marion, is here to take over for 
himshucks, she doesnt have a 
bicycle and well miss those rides 
on the handlebars . . . The gals 
really took us at our word (an 
abundance of males on the staff) 
and we really have a swell turn-out 
this weekwho knows, maybe some 
romances will be born . . . Have 
you heard the latest Moron bitHe 
took his nose apart to see what 
made it runO. K. its not the lat
est but then were always weeks be
hind . . . George W. Petrie, III, is 
a Lieutenant j. g., in the Navy(we 
think its something like a junior 
commando) hes really a b-e-a-u-t-iful sight in his uniformespecially 
that one atop the Empire State 
Buildingbe still my heart! . . . 
Wedding bells will keep Steve Marcinizyn from his duties next week 
. . . Cant imagine where Ron Shoff 
is keeping himselfoh! my mistake 
hes got a ball and chain this year 
and that makes a difference . . . 
Patsy ORourke doesnt seem to no
tice a shortage of mencant see 
how she manages to get to school 
at all . . . Who wants to wager! 
the song Dreaming of a White 
Christmas will be forgotten long 
before that timetoo badbut such 
is life . . . What evening college 
president is all ga-ga about our fair 
editor? Watch your step, Al, that 
claim has already been staked.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
All views or opinions expressed in edi
torial column are not necessarily endorsed 
by the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.
Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Staff
June Apel S. Marcinizyn
John Castellano D. Pettigrew, Jr.
Albert Kerstukos Pearl Pettola
Edward A. Macha Joseph M. Rymar 
Robert Poznanski Robert Lenigan
James Flaherty Albert Flanders
Swimming Lessons 
Available At Pool
Most of you missed the time of 
your live? by not attending swim
ming the last five Wednesdays. Cer
tainly we all should take advantage 
of this opportunity to meet our fel
low students and relax a bit after 
the usual hard days work.
A lot of us think we can swim, but 
really can we? Just getting across a 
pool and back isnt so wonderful; 
we should be able to swim distances 
without tiring. The swimming coach 
will gladly teach you the correct 
way to swim.
Come on, all of you students, and 
enjoy an evening at the pool; we 
guarantee that you will want to be 
there every Wednesday thereafter. 
Remember that the attendance will 
determine whether or not this sport 
will be continued.
TOOL and DIE MAKING 
INSTRUMENT MAKING
Courses 3 to 12 Weeks
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
Expert Individual Instruction 
Write, Phone or Call 9 a.m.-9:30p.m. 
---- We employ no solicitors 
TECHNICAL
SCHOOLMETROPOLITAN
260 W. 41 St., N.y. LOngacre 3-2180
Licensed by State of New Y ork
Ojoun. Gatnp.uA. Stone.
W00DLWN PHARMACY
SPECIAL 
Mailing Bags. . $1.49
Alarm Clocks .$1.49 and up
Carnegie Tech Xmas Cards, $1.00 per dozen
Five Hundred Tissues23c
Tech Stationery49c
Complete Line of
Squibb, Parke & Davis, and Abbot Vitamins
New Assortment of
Kaywoodie Pipes$3.50 to $12.00
Parker 51 Pen & Pencil Sets, $1750 and up
