the carnegi
VOL. 40, NO. 2 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946
CAKNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.RTAN
Hornes Give 
Fashion Show
Last Thursday, October 10, in 
the Little Theater, the Joseph 
Home Company presented the 
Kiltie Klassics. Carnegie Tech 
students modeled in the fashion 
show, which featured clothes de
signed from the Cameron of Erracht Plaid, the official Carnegie 
tartan. Mrs. Stewart, fashion styl
ist at Hornes, commented on the 
apparel.
One of the classroom classics 
was a one-piece dress with a Peter 
Pan collar, long sleeves, and a 
dirndl skirt. It had a zippered 
front closing, with one button 
high at the throat and a matching 
button on the simulated leather 
belt. The dress was further ac
centuated by Cameron plaid bal
let slippers, designed by Capezio.
Among the trim suits for date 
and school wear was a Norfolk 
jacketed suit with a slenderizing 
skirt made with a front kick 
pleat. The regularity of the plaid 
pattern was broken by four bias 
cut pocket flaps. Red accessories 
were featured to add color to the 
dark green background plaid.
Slacks and pedal pushers in 
the rich-looking plaid were mod
eled with jackets and vests.
In the new and different de
partment were Cameron plaid 
spats and gaiters. Gaiters are high 
spats which look like leggings, 
and should prove to be very pop
ular for the late fall football 
games.
The models were: Dorothy
Kane, Ruth Pivirotto, Phyllis Petrikin, Betty Floyd, Helen Zim
merman, June Reilly, Caroline 
Cook, Helen Andrews, Jane Mc
Donald, Lisbeth Kephart, Eleanor 
Helfert, and Sue Linderman.
The Cerey Woolen Mills cop
ied the Cameron of Erracht plaid 
in every detail as one of a ser
ies of authentic Scotch plaids 
from an original swatch secured 
from Carnegie Tech. Plaid 
clothes, modeled in the show, are 
to be found exclusively at Jo
seph Home Company.
Pgh. Chosen Site 
Of SAM Meeting
The National Fall Conference 
on Human Relations of the Society 
for the Advancement of Manage
ment will be held in Pittsburgh on 
Thursday, October 31, at the Ho
tel William Penn. The theme of 
the conference will be the import
ant problem of the evaluation and 
exploration of the current trends 
in industrial relations.
Calculated to show both present 
and future developments which 
may require adjustments in man
agement policies, the conference 
promises to be of much interest to 
students. All members of Car
negie Techs Department of Man
agement Engineering are invited 
to attend.
Mr. Charles P. McCormick, 
President, will have the honor of 
presenting the annual award for 
outstanding achievement in Hu
man Relations.
CWCA Gives Tea
The annual Big and Little Sister 
Tea is to be held on Tuesday af
ternoon by the Carnegie Womens 
Christian Association at the Car
negie Union. All freshmen girls 
and all upperclassmen who have 
little sisters are invited.
President Doherty, Dr. B. E. 
Warden, Mrs. Jesse Y. Yon, and 
Charlotte Young, president of 
C.W.C.A. will be present to greet 
the freshmen and their big sisters. 
After formal introductions in the 
reception line, cocoa and refresh
ments will be served.
Kiltie Band Makes Debut At 
Firelit Pep Rally Held in Bowl
The first pep rally in three years 
was held at the bowl on Friday 
evening, October 11. There the 
students of Carnegie Tech gath
ered to rehearse the cheers and 
songs and to assimilate some pep 
and fervor for the football season. 
With them and leading them was 
Techs famed Kiltie band, inaug
urating its first year of full scale 
activity since 1942.
On the following day at Forbes 
field when the Skibos met Oberlin for the first game of the sea
son, the Kiltie band Was on the 
scene offering the traditional se
lection of Tech songs with an un
usual color and precision of music 
brightening the otherwise drab 
and dampening effect of the 
weather.
The Kiltie band, nationally 
famous for its fast marching 
step, is under the leadership of its 
student manager, Irving Palefsky. 
Other offices currently held are: 
student director, Jay Maratta; as
sistant manager, Scotty Yurchison; secretary, Edward Kink; and 
drum major, Robert Davis. The 
position of drum major includes 
complete command of all field 
drilling and was formerlj held 
by Paul Wines, who was at that 
time national baton twirling 
champion and who was later 
killed in action serving with the 
navy. Robert Davis was an un
derstudy of Paul Wines.
The Kilties have fifty-eight 
members at present and hope to
A.V.C. Chapter 
Meets Oct. 16th
The All-College chapter of the 
American Veterans Committee 
will meet tomorrow at 7:30 p. m. 
at the Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church, Bellefield and Fifth.
Three meetings of the All-Col
lege chapter, so named because it 
is composed of students from 
Tech, Pitt, and Duquesne, have 
been held over the summer. Pro
fessor Shattuck, economics pro
fessor at Pitt, and Father Owen B. 
Rice, Area Rent-Control Director 
and Radio Commentator, gave 
talks concerning current topics. 
Although the power strike has 
been a deterrent to the holding of 
subsequent meetings, it is hoped 
the Wednesday affair will inaug
urate a new and active season.
The American Veterans Com
mittee is an organization of vet
erans of World War II. All stu
dents who were formerly mem
bers of any of the armed services 
or of the Merchant Marine are 
cordially invited to attend this 
next meeting.
Student Council Dance 
Ends Frosh Regulations
The first all-school dance of the fall semester this Saturday 
will be sponsored by the C.I.T. Student Council. This event 
will mark the cessation of freshman regulations and will give 
the incoming students a suitable opportunity to become better 
P,, 0 acquainted with their fellow stu-t irst Meeting 
Of Dorm Bagpiper 
Scheduled Oct. 17
expand to eighty members. Com
petitive tryouts will be held for 
aspiring candidates. There is a 
special need for drummers, al
though there are other positions 
open.
Mr. Davidson, an expert of na
tional reknown on bagpipe instru
ments, has been engaged by the 
institute to organize and train 
the bagpipe section. All members 
of the band are clad in the tra
ditional Scottish kilts, authentic in 
every detail.
Keys are given for two years 
membership but the greatest com
pensation is the distinction of be
longing to a band that is famed 
throughout the country.
First Scottie 
Delayed Due to 
New York Strike
During the past week the Scot
tie has been holding a very suc
cessful subscription drive, which 
will continue until the first issue 
comes out. The staff expects the 
first Scottie to apear as soon as 
the second order of covers (the 
first disappeared due to power 
strike complications) arrives from 
New York where it has been de
layed by a trucking tieup. They 
are hoping that this will occur 
early this week.
The staff which will guide the 
Scottie during the coming year 
is headed by Janet Hartman, mem
ber of Kappa Kappa Gamma and 
Mortar Board. Her Managing Ed
itor is Helen Miller, well-known 
AEPhi and Vice-president of the 
Margaret Morrison Senate. Dick 
Kennedy is Business Manager.
Already well on the way to com
pletion, the second issue of the 
Scottie will feature the Homecom
ing game.
Form Out Soon
Form, a magazine for Fine Arts 
students, will soon appear as a 
new publication on the Tech cam
pus. It corresponds to the Tech
nical, which has been the out
standing publication for the en
gineering students. Form will con
tain articles on all of the arts as 
well as features by such notables 
as Ethel Merman, Paul Robeson, 
and Frank Lloyd Wright.
Arrangements are being made to 
put out the new magazine as soon 
as possible under the following 
staff: A1 Clark, Editor; Howard 
Silverman and Bert Pollock, as
sistant editors; and Jack Loftis, 
photographic editor. Any Fine Arts 
students interested in working for 
Form should report to Room 106, 
Fine Arts Bldg., Thursday, Oct. 
17, at 4:30.
On Thursday, October 17, 1946, 
the Dorm Bagpiper will hold its 
organization meeting for the fall 
semester. The meeting, which be
gins at 7:30 P. M. in the Car
negie Union, will be of interest to 
all men and women dormitory 
residents who want to see their 
spokesman, the Bagpiper, takes its 
place once more as one of the 
influential publications on cam
pus.
Last spring, after three years 
silence, the Bagpiper, under the 
guidance of Tut Hoffman and with 
the help of the mens and womens 
Dormitory Councils, found its 
voice, resulting in the printing of 
three issues during April and May. 
The staff, comprised entirely of 
dorm residents, worked unstintingly to get the Bagpiper on an 
operating basis for this fall sem
ester. The spring issues proved that 
the paper was well able to echo 
the viewpoints of the dormitories, 
and to cover all dorm social and 
athletic activities. At that time, 
Tut Hoffman was Editor-in-chief, 
with Anna Jane Zimmerman as 
Managing Editor, and Richard 
Storm and John Fockler as News 
Editor and Business Manager, re
spectively.
Thursdays organization meeting 
will be in the able hands of Tut 
Hoffman. Once again, all dorm 
residents who can write, proof
read, copy-read, type, draw, etc. 
are needed to get the paper in 
full swing.
CIT Joins Forum
In the interest of an informed 
public in Pittsburgh, C.I.T. is 
joining a group which is sponsor
ing a Civic Center Forum. The 
Forum will present discussions of 
important current topics at month
ly Tuesday evening sessions in 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall. Can the United Nations 
Keep the Peace? is the subject 
scheduled for October 15, at 8:00 
p.m. Irving R. Murray 
will be the Moderator of the 
Forum; Mrs. Louis Reizenstein the 
Secretary; and John Coyne the 
Treasurer. Faculty members and 
students who wish to participate 
in this important project in adult 
education may secure reserved 
seat season tickets at $3.00 each 
by calling at the Public Relations 
office, 246 Industries Hall.
Seniors Tested
Graduate Record Examinations, 
r. comprehensive inventory of the 
students knowledge in several se
lected fields, will be held at C.I.T. 
October 28 and 29, under the 
auspices of the Bureau of Meas
urement and Guidance. The ex
ams, basis for admission to many 
graduate schools, will be held in 
Industries Hall, Room 233, at 9:30 
a.m. and will require two half
day classes.
The exams are open to sopho
mores as well as seniors, and con
sist of general achievement tests 
as well as tests in specialized 
fields. For further information 
write to: Graduate Record Exam
inations, 437 N. 59th Street, N. Y.
dents and the upper-classmen. 
The music will be provided by 
Bill LeRoys orchestra for danc
ing from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. in the 
Gymnasium. Bill LeRoy has been 
to many school dances in the past 
and is well known for his smooth 
college style of music. Tickets are 
$1.80 per couple, and since no 
dance was held this year for the 
freshmen, these fortunate new
comers and their guests will be 
admitted free of charge.
Social co-chairmen of this in
formal affair are Dorothy Hallas 
and Fuzzy Thurston, who plan 
to follow an autumn theme by 
decorating the gym with hay 
stacks, fall leaves, and harvest 
moons to provide the desired at
mosphere.
Tickets may be secured from 
any member of Student Council 
and will also be on sale in the 
front hall of Skibo this week. 
Student Council sponsored dances 
have always been among the most 
popular dances of the social cal
endar, so be sure to buy your tick
ets early.
Students Invited 
To Enter College 
Poetry Contest
The National Poetry Associa
tion has announced November 5 
as the closing date for the sub
mission of manuscripts to the 1946 
annual anthology of College Poe
try. The following rules must be 
observed in submitting entries: 
each entry must be on a separate 
sheet and carry the signed state
ment. The verse entitled ..........
is my own personal effort; the 
name of the college attended; and 
the authors home address. There 
are no charges or fees for inclu
sion of verse in this anthology.
Entries should be sent to Na
tional Poetry Association, 3210 
Selby Avenue, Los Angeles 34, 
California.
String Ensemble 
Plans Concert
A concert by the String En
semble, Costa Andreasson con
ducting, has been scheduled by 
the Department of Music, to be 
held in the Little Theater on 
Sunday, October 24, at 8:15 p. m.
The program has been arrang
ed as follows:
Suite in B Minor by 
Bach, for flute, string or
chestra, and continuo 
SoloistJane Peters 
ContinuoHelen Gossard 
La Folia by Corelli, for 
violin and string orchestra 
SoloistAllen Hood 
Serenade, Opus 69 by 
Volkman, for violoncello and 
string orchestra 
SoloistBurton Dines 
Concerto Grosso in D 
Minor by Vivaldi, for two 
violins, violoncello, and string 
orchestra
Solo violins  Allen Hood 
and Lester Trimble 
Solo violoncello  Burton 
Dines
Notice
Student Council requests 
that all organizations hand in 
a copy of their constitutions 
at the Student Council office 
in the Union within the next 
two weeks.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1046
thecar^TARTAN
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
TELEPHONE: SChenley 4557
After office hours: Editor, JA. 3310; Business Manager, EM. 9424
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Entered as second class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 8, 1879. Subscription price $1.10 a year.
Editors..........Boo Girts, Mary J. Horridge Circulation Manager ..................Sam MosesBusiness Manager .Bill Meyers Headline Editor ....Camille McCulloughManaging Editor ..................Ben Schwartz Personnel Manager .................Jean BolteyNews Editor ......................Audrey Wilkins Copy Editors. . .Hub Aaronson, Glen Neil-Sports Editor ......................Dick Heckman son, Dick Eschenbach
Photographers: Danny Franks (head photographer). Bill Weyandt.Columnists: Bob Coleman, B. J. Kreimer, Casey Stine.Sports Staff: Tony Arrott, Amie Christenson, Stan Kohn.Cartoonists: Lisbeth Kephart, A1 Mitchell, Bennard Perlman, Herb Saiger.Reporters: Tony Arrott, Doris Becker, Marie Delli Gatti, Lou Emmel, Viera Kulamer,Rosemarie Lang, Helen Miller, Georgette Paljug, Shirloy Seiner.Cub Reporters: John Fockler, Lizbeth Kephart, Celeste Silberstein, Gerry Sunseri,Barbara Vilsmeier, Sema Moskovitz.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., Collegi Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New York City.
Editors Armchair
Is This Line Necessary?
In the past week, every single student has been faced with 
the unnecessary and unfortunate problem of obtaining the es
sential books and supplies required for his classes.
No one needs to be told how difficult this simple matter 
has become. Its no fun :to stand in line for an hoursometimes 
two hours. Yet most of you have done so at least once this 
week. Furthermore, many of you have missed lunches, classes 
and important engagements while standing in those uncom
promisingly slow lines. Many more, whose schedules do not 
allow for waiting in bookstore lines, are finding themselves 
more and more uncomfortably behind in their work merely 
because they havent the equipment.
Somehow, although this is a day of lines and more lines, 
the congested situation at the bookstore seems unnecessary.
In consideration of the fact the unusually high enrollment 
was neither sudden nor unexpected, a heavy demand on the 
bookstore should have been anticipated long before registration.
Some plans to cope with this demand should have been 
made. There must certainly be a better way of distributing 
supplies.
Additional help at the bookstore during the rush would 
alleviate the congestion to some extent. But perhaps some sort 
of a schedule and arrangement whereby different classes or 
departments would purchase supplies at specified times would 
facilitate handling the crowds. Or a list of required supplies 
could be given the student during registration or at least be
fore the start of classes.
Whatever the solution might be, this bottleneck should re
ceive thoughtful attention. We have been delayed long enough! 
We want our books now, not next semester.
Football, Welcome Back!
A cheer rose from the crowd; the gate opened; the bag
pipes whined and wailed. And the Kiltie Band of 1946 marched 
briskly onto the field.
Football has returned to Carnegie Tech.
Perhaps were getting sentimental in our old age, but after 
two football-starved, school-spiritless years, we couldnt help but 
thrill to the tune of the bagpipes, to the cheers, to the songs, 
and to the sight of our red and gold clad Tartans trotting 
on to the field to line up for the kick-off. 1
It cannot be ignored. There is something about football 
that ties a school together like nothing else ever has or probably 
ever will. Perhaps its just another case of mob psychology, 
but the good sportsmanship and hail-fellow-well-met spirit of the 
cheering section is certainly mob psychology at its best.
Yes, there is something about a football game that trans
forms an ordinary college into the noble Alma Mater and an 
assorted collection of students into a loyaly united student 
body.
On Saturday, football returned to C.I.T. It wasnt a per
fect debut. Rain dampened the big day; and the score dampened 
the hopeful spirits.
However we dont really care about the weather; we dont 
really care about the score.
For in spite of their defects, the students turned out in 
good numbers; and the team, the band, and the cheering sec
tion put on a worthy first show.
That is what counts.
Football is back. And were awfully, awfully glad to have it.
A Roof For Their Heads
Heres some good news on the housing situation. Living quarters 
have been found for all the students of Carnegie Tech. In a time 
of acute housing shortages, this announcement sounds almost mirac
ulous.
However, not a miracle but good organization and planning 
(Continued on Page 5.)
Pi D.E. Notice
All members of Pi Delta 
Epsilon who were not in at
tendance at Carnegie Tech 
last year are requested to 
contact Mary Jane Horridge 
at MO 6340.
Student Returns 
Only to Mourn 
On Eras Passing
Once upon a timeand indeed 
it seems centuries agothere was 
a school in Pittsburgh at which 
the students and the faculty were 
fewbut a happy few, a band of 
brothers. Everyone knew just 
about everyone else, and as one 
wandered around the almost emp
ty campus there was a smile and 
a hello for each passerbythat 
was Carnegie Tech of two, three 
years ago. There was a feeling of 
solidarity, a fighting spirit which 
seemed to defy the troubled times 
to attack this citadel of learning. 
And as day by day more men were 
called into the service of their 
country, the ever dwindling stu
dent body put their shoulders to 
the wheel with renewed vigor, and 
what their activities lost in scope 
was amply compensated by in
creased enthusiasm.
The past is often viewed with 
rose colored glasses, and so the 
[Continued on page 8]
The Passing Parade
By Carl Wlahr
The City of Pittsburgh poked 
its nose into a hornets nest last 
week when it sought and obtained 
an anti-strike injunction.
This type of injunction is some
thing new in the annals of labor 
history. It is a directive, issued 
by a court, which flatly forbids 
a labor union to strike. Workers 
may, under its terms, stay away 
from their jobs as individuals; 
however, if one of them contrib
utes to the strike in his capacity 
of union member, he may be pun
ished for contempt of the court 
which issued the injunction. This 
distinction may seem hairsplitting, 
but it sent the president of a labor 
union to jail, and caused quite a 
furor.
Injunctions have often been 
used to regulate the form of a 
strike. A few months ago, for in
stance, an injunction banning mass 
picketing was issued against the 
striking Westinghouse workers. 
But to ban a strike itselfthis 
vexes labor leaders sorely. This, 
they think, is forbidding them the 
use of their most powerful weapon. 
The arrest of Mr. Mueller, which 
symbolized the anti-strike injunc
tion, unified the divergent A. F. 
of L. and C. I. O. organizations for
News from Here & There
A casual glance through the col
lege publications of the country 
shows that modification, reform, 
revolution, and very often what 
appears to be progress is the gen
eral trend. Reams of newsprint 
are being devoted to changing 
outmoded constitutions which 
were written for the naive college 
student of 1942.
Committees, polls, petitions, 
rallies and all the numerous plow
shares of this post-war political 
era are being pressed into service. 
At Southern Methodist, The SMU 
Campus reports a movement to 
obtain a form of government that 
will be less strictly controlled by 
the faculty. Inasmuch as they are 
merely requesting a system simi
lar to that which we have at Tech, 
it should not lead to a complete 
breakdown of moral discipline. On 
the other hand, the Technology 
News points out that the students 
of Illinois Institute of Technology 
favor a plan of closer faculty su
pervision. They believe that a 
governing body containing six 
professors and eight students 
would lead to more faculty par
ticipation in student affairs which 
would ultimately lead to better
student-professor relationships.
At Penn State, the student gov
ernment has appointed a commit
tee to investigate the behavior of 
the women students. The Col
legian has commented on the fact 
that the coeds are to be regulated 
in a great number of actions that 
have always previously been en
tirely dependent on individual 
discretion . . . we wonder.
The Technology News tells the 
one about the fellow who winked 
at the elevator girl and she took 
him up ... an insurance com
pany sold policies against flunking 
courses on the campus of the Uni
versity of Missouri. . . . An in
structor at Virginia University 
surprised his Russian classes by 
substituting a banquet for a plan
ned quiz. . . . Its a bouncing 
baby buffalo for the students 
mascot at Indiana University. . . . 
Beer drinkers  attention! ! A 
gradual disappearance of draft 
beer from the countrys bars was 
forecast by H. H. Hopkins, gener
al manager of the National Beer 
Wholesalers Association. Reason 
more profit, less trouble to ship 
in bottles.
a moment, and expressions of their 
displeasure cascaded in like a 
deluge upon bewildered city of
ficials. Nationally known labor 
leaders protested by telegram. 
Sympathy walkouts took place in 
the Pittsburgh area in which tens 
of thousands participated, and de
monstrations were held down
town. The Civil Liberties League 
and other non-labor organizations 
were also aroused. Unfortunately 
the local power union took all 
this as a backing of its own stub
born attitude; but the issue trans
cends the local emergency.
The injunction incident serves 
to re-emphasize a great trouble
maker in labor-management rela
tionsthe suspicion and hostility 
present on both sides. It is sus
picion* on the part of labor that 
prompted the flood of anti-injunction protests; it is suspicion and 
fear which support the right to 
strike even against the public 
safety. And this suspicion has 
oftentimes been justified.
In this postwar period unions 
have become a public scapegoat, 
a distinction they do not deserve. 
Their shenanigans are very con
spicuous, but they are not, by far, 
the only ones who sin. Unions are 
by their nature much weaker than 
the corporations which employ 
them, and being weak they are 
very sensitive. From this stems 
labor solidaritythe solidarity of 
the underdogwhich is expressed 
in such practices as refusing to 
cross a picket line. Unions, since 
they are weak, financially and 
structurally, believe they deserve 
special protection from govern
ment. To them the anti-strike in
junction is a direct slap in the 
face. Probably the hostility be
tween labor and management is 
only a passing phase in the de
velopment of an industrialized 
society, but as such, it requires 
tolerance and plenty of give and 
take.
We, the general public, can mi
tigate the suspicion that exists. 
Let us insist that our leaders make 
no more tactless blunders such as 
this injunction. Barring enforced 
labor, a directive of this sort will 
not send discontented men back 
to work; it will only raise their 
anger. Let us insist that our news
papers present the facts without 
bias instead of engaging in hatemongering diatribes. Let us real
ize that there is much to be said 
on both sides of a labor dispute, 
and that a snap judgment can or
iginate only from prejudice.
Jettebi ta the (sditosi
The Doors Swing In
Dear Mesdames:
It has been more or less forcibly 
brought to our attention that the 
law-abiding, God-fearing, and 
student-hating Carnegie Institute 
of Technology has wantonly and 
wilfully violated one of the estab
lished statutes of the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania, namely, 
the door on Skibo goes in instead 
of out. Act 413 of the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania, dated May 
1, 1929, Part V, Chapter 40, Sec
tion 4017, states that The exit 
doors from all places of public 
assembly and from all buildings 
covered by this part of the code 
shall open outwardly.
Why, any self-respecting bar 
has swinging doors. (The Uni
versity Grill is not a self-respect
ing bar.) Neither is the Skibo 
Inn. How else do you think the 
fellows around campus with black 
eyes acquired them? A couple 
weeks ago, when a group of ra
venous engineers spotted the first 
co-ed of the fall season and bolted 
for the door, they piled up against 
the infernal device. When their 
front man was finally peeled 
off the door, he looked as though 
hed been caught in a folding bed. 
So what if it is just a screen door; 
wed rather have mosquito bites 
than crushed noses.
However, we are willing to ne
gotiate with the Administration on 
this grave issue. We wont say 
another word about it, if the Ad
ministration will give the girls 
3:30 permissions every night in 
the week and twice on Sundays. 
Wrathfully yours,
Richard C. Eschenbach 
Douglass J. Wilde.
Nuremburg Trials
Dear Editor,
Tonights newspapers carried 
some stories v^hich have put me 
in that old letter-to-the-editor 
mood, so pull up a chair and read 
a while. You might agree with 
me.
The Nuremberg War Crime 
Trials have finally came to an end 
after many months of arguments, 
counter-arguments, and the ex
penditure of a vast amount of 
legal and police effort on the part 
of the four major victors. Most 
of the criminals who were brought 
to the bar of justice were de
clared guilty and are about to 
meet the fate generally accorded 
to horse thieves and common 
murderers. However, these men 
who have seen fit to dispense 
what they call justice decided to 
free completely such men as 
Schaacht, financier extraordinary 
of the Third Reich, and Von 
Papen, master of intrigue through
a period extending beyond two 
world wars. Others such as Von 
Neurath, protector of Czechoslo
vakia, have been given prison 
terms. Are those who have been 
set free innocent? Has justice 
been satisfied by the giving of 
prison terms to the men who have 
led the most murderous regime 
recorded over the long span of 
human history?
After World War I, the prose
cution of war criminals was turn
ed over to German officials, who 
promptly freed most of their 
heroes and imprisoned the re
mainder on a strict diet of cham
pagne and caviar until the police 
and government officials thought 
it opportune to escort them to 
freedom. However, no occupying 
power planned to make further 
use of the prisoners at that time. 
Their subsequent plotting was 
on their own.
The situation which meets our 
eyes this time is considerably dif
ferent. Great Britain and the 
United States are competing with 
Russia for the favor of the Ger
man people, each preparing to 
fight the other in some soon-tooccur World War III. The Ameri
can pursuit of German personnel 
had been confined largely to the 
capture and use of rocket and supersonics scientists who were far 
[Continued on page 8]

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Jefferson Club 
Plans Events
The Jefferson Club, -a liberal 
students organization, has plan
ned several interesting events for 
college people during the month 
of October. In addition to a Kin
dergarten Party and a number of 
tours through the city, the club 
will present many noteworthy 
speakers for their Sunday evening 
discussions.
The first meeting of the month 
was on Saturday, October 5, when 
the club visited the steel mills of 
Pittsburgh. Speakers for the month 
are P. H. Pratt, editor of the 
Pittsburgh Courier, I. R. Murray 
of the First Unitarian Church, 
and Gladys Schmitt, author of 
David The King. Miss Schmitt 
will read excerpts from her new 
book, Supper As Usual.
All meetings of the club are 
held at the First Unitarian 
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood 
Ave., and everyone is invited to 
participate.
The Jefferson Club is an inter
collegiate organization drawing its 
members from the University of 
Pittsburgh and Duquesne Univer
sity as well as Carnegie Tech. Any 
students who may be interested in 
joining the group are urged to 
watch for details of subsequent 
meetings.
Tartan Notice
There will be a meeting of 
all members of the Tartan 
staff at 7:30 Friday. Beat as
signments will be given out at 
this time.
Chairman Collier 
Invites Students 
To Join Aero Club
Carnegie Techs newly formed 
Aero Club, sponsored by the Aero
nautical Sciences, will meet at 
12:30 on Thursday, October 17, in 
Room 105, Machinery Hall.
At an organization meeting 
held last Thursday plans were 
made for the weekly meetings, 
which will feature technical talks 
to be given by members of the 
club, dealing with various aspects 
of the aviation industry. Also on 
the program for this semester are 
a Halloween hayride, a banquet, 
and trips to aircraft factories and 
to the National Air Show at Cleve
land. At the conclusion of the 
meeting, Chairman Collier extend
ed an invitation to all students in
terested in aviation, regardless of 
department, to participate in the 
club activities.
The officers for the current sem
ester are: chairman, Sam Collier; 
vice-chairman, Mel Snyder; sec
retary, H. W. Plohr; and treasurer, 
Bob Lewis.
Social Season Offers Chance 
To Eat, Drink, and Be Merry
Heres fair warning to all Tech 
coeds to buy new ribbons and to 
all Tech men to sew the buttons 
on their best shirts because there 
will be nothing slow about this 
years social season.
The first affair will be Stu
dent Councils Fall dance on Oc
tober 19. While it honors the 
freshmen, it also serves as the 
culmination of the frosh regula
tion period. Upperclassmen will 
be assessed for this dance but 
freshmen and their dates will be 
admitted upon presentation of a 
registration card. Billy LeRoy 
and his orchestra will play from 
nine to one m the gaily decorat
ed gym.
Coming up in short order, No
vember 16 to be exact, is the Jun
ior Prom, sponsored by Delta 
Skull. Since Tech battles the Uni
versity of Buffalo that afternoon, 
it will be a big weekend. Al
though the orchestra has been ar
ranged for, the name remains a 
surprise; rumors are flying that 
its the best to appear on the cam
pus in years.
The sororities are sponsoring 
the Pan-Hellenic Dance on No
vember 23; on December 14 is the 
Winter Carnival  a pleasant 
memory to take home for Christ
mas; and not to be outdone by 
the girls, the fraternities are 
holding their Interfraternity For
mal on January 11.
At the King of Hearts Ball, 
February 8, the fellows have a 
chance to demonstrate that they 
have beauty as well as brawn, for 
thats when the male counterpart 
of Miss America is chosen. Pre
ceding the dance are weeks of 
eager campaigning in which each 
organization stresses the merits 
of its candidate.
The third month of the new 
year is a big one at Tech, for 
theres the Womens Guild Dance 
on March 1, the Cwen and Scim
itar sponsored Soph Hop on
Cwen Elect Officers 
M. L. Thorpe, Pres.
Cwens, national sophomore hon
orary for women, elected the fol
lowing officers last May after they 
were tapped on Call Day: Mary 
Lou Thorpe, president; Sada 
Thompson, vice-president; Jean 
Gannon, treasurer; and Peggy 
Steele, secretary.
Cwens are now planning the 
traditions exams for Fine Arts and 
Margaret Morrison women which 
will be given Friday. They have 
already helped with this years 
registration and the Presidents 
Reception.
March 15, and the Tecvet Easter 
Parade on March 29. There are al
so two big affairs in Aprilthe 
Mens Dorm Council on the 12th 
and Greek Sing and Swing on 
the 19th.
At last, the affair for which 
everyone has been waiting arrives 
Spring Carnival on May 2 and
3. The fun of this hilarious week 
end is remembered from one 
year until the next, which is even 
more glorious than all of those 
which have come before. The In
terfraternity Sweepstakes, Call 
Day, the booths set up on the Cut, 
the coronation of the Campus 
Queen and her court, and the two 
big dances, make this affair one 
of the most outstanding held on 
American college campuses.
All paths must part eventually, 
so May 23 is the date set for the 
Senior Prom, always a gala affair.
Of course youve come to school 
to study but keep up that school 
spirit by going to all of the so
cial affairstheys as much a part 
of school life as books and classes.
Jrs. Plan Prom
Delta Skull, junior activities 
honorary for men, will soon 
choose eight new members. A no
tice will be posted in time for 
the Junior men to turn in their 
points.
Members of the honorary now 
are busy with plans for the Jun
ior Prom, to be held on Novem
ber 16. Tom Farrahy is chairman 
of the Prom Committee. Working 
with him are the other members 
for Delta Skull: Bob Dismukes, 
Dick Eschenbach, Danny Franks, 
Jay Maratta, Bob Sharbaugh, and 
Norm Zuerner.
HT Initiates Ten
Theta Tau, professional engi
neering society, held its formal 
initiation in the Carnegie Union 
on Sunday at 2:00. Because of its 
high standards, this society has 
been classed at Tech as an hon
orary as well as a professional so
ciety.
A dual celebration will be held 
by the society on October 15, 
which will include a banquet for 
the pledges and the honorarys an
nual Founders Day celebration.
The ten men who were initiat
ed were Vernoni H. Neubert, John 
J. Keyes, John H. South, Hugh 
Frederick Porter, Jr., Harold E. 
DeBolt, George B. Matthews, 
Peter C. Bertelson, Thomas E. 
Burns, James F. Baer, Denis J. 
Obrien, and Joseph W. Tikey. Rob
ert D. Haberstroh and Richard C.
Carnegie Institute Opens Exhibit
YMCA Cabinet 
Invites Frosh
Hopkinson and Franklin C. Wat
kins. Homer Saint-Gaudens, Di
rector of. Fine Arts, Carnegie In
stitute, was chairman of the jury.
As a part of the Founders Day 
celebration, the Institute has pre
sented each year an International 
Exhibition of Contemporary Paint
ing which included an American 
Division. In 1940, in place of the 
International, the Institute offered 
the first of a series of exhibitions 
of American art, which has con
tinued to date. The opening of 
the Exhibition marked the begin
ning of the art season for Pitts
burgh, for which some three 
thousand people assembled in the 
Carnegie Music Hall for the 
Founders Day exercises. At the 
close of the program, President 
William Frew of the Carnegie In
stitute announced the prize awards 
and the Exhibition was declared 
open.
During the time of the exhibi
tion at Carnegie Institute (Oct.
10 through Dec. 8) the galleries 
will be open weekdays from 10:00 
a.m. until 10 p.m. and on Sun
days from 2-6 p.m. Under the 
terms of Andrew Carnegies gift 
of the Institute, the show is free 
to the people.
As a part of the fiftieth Found
ers Day celebration at the Car
negie Institute, the Department 
of Fine Arts opened the exhibi
tion, Painting in the United 
States, 1946, on the evening of 
October 11. There are three hun
dred paintings by as many artists 
in the show.
Seven monetary prizes were 
awarded at the exhibition. Karl 
Knaths of Provincetown, Mass., 
was the winner of the First Prize 
carrying with it an award of 
$1000 for his abstract painting, 
Gear. The Second Prize of 
$700 went to Jack Levine for 
Welcome Home. William Gropper was awarded the third prize 
of $500 for Don Quixote No. 1, 
and First Honorable Mention, en
tailing an award of $400 went to
Bradley Walker Tomlin. With the 
exception of Charles E. Burchfield, 
Second Honorable Mention, and 
Sidney Laufman, Third Honorable 
Mention, the prize winners for 
1946 represent new names among 
the recipients of the Carnegie 
Honors. The three man jury was 
composed of three American art
ists: Vaughn Flannery, Charles
The Carnegie Tech YMCA Cab
inet will hold an informal recep
tion for freshman interested in 
YMCA activities this Thursday 
afternoon, October 17, from 4:30 
until 6:00, in the Carnegie Union. 
Any freshman may come, and 
those men desirous of engaging in 
YMCA activity as part of their 
extra-curricular program are par
ticularly urged to attend. The 
members of the Cabinet will all 
be on hand to greet the men.
Augie Binder, president of the 
Cabinet, and Professor Dennison 
of the Y Committee of Manage
ment will welcome the freshmen 
and tell them of the purpose and 
accomplishments of the Y-Cabinet at Tech. Before leaving, 
freshmen will have opportunity 
to affiliate themselves with the 
Freshman Y-Cabinet.
Mile. Contest Held 
For College Women
Attention, all undergraduate 
girls! Would you like to be a 
Madamoiselle College Board Mem
ber? A Mile. Guest Editor? If you 
would like to work on Mile, next 
June putting out their August is
sue, just submit a trial report on
any new phase of campus life. 
Write on courses, fads, fashions, 
activities, or trends. Send your 
typewritten, double spaced, two 
page report together with a snap
shot of yourself and data regard
ing your college and home ad
dresses, class, majors, extracur
ricular activities, and jobs held 
to: The College Board Editor,
Mile., 122 East 42 St., New York 
17, N. Y.
BOTTLEJ UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PA. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946
TECH SPORTING SCENE
By Dick Heckman
Another season, another bateh of athletes, another football 
team, but the same old bum banging out this column.
So much for introduction. In case you are wondering where 
Max Hannum is, he left. His shoes are being filled by Bob Porteus 
and Dale Stull who, incidently, are doing a bang-up job on C.I.T. 
publicity.
I though that with the advent of a new football team, maybe 
the administrations policy of put
ting the clamps on athletics would Intramural
be loosened a little. No Soap. The I
faculty support reached a new low llUuHUlip
Saturday when two hours before This, the first Intramural
the Oberlin game, one of the boys Round-Up of the new school year
asked to be excused from class so is ne strictly for the recthat he could eat and get over to ?rc* record, by the way,,, , ... is one of the main reasons for thisthe game. The prof came up with, columns, weekIy appearance ,t
Oh, are you boys practicing this has been the aim of your intra
afternoon? Oh, brother! As a mural reporter in the past and will
matter of fact, weve gotten more ke ^he present to pass on to
snrmnrt from the Pittibvrah SunPosterity> and anyone else withsupport irom the Pittsburgh bun nothing better to read? the facts
Telegraph than we have from ancj figures concerning the antics
sources around school as far as of Techs amateur athletes,
the Tartan sports are concerned. As we go to press, entries are
Many thanks to Harry Keck and pouring into the intramural office
especially to Jack Henry for their listing the teams and players
co-operation. ready to take to the gridiron in
Coach Risedorph Scouts Game pursuit of the six-man touch foot,  ball championship. Coach Rise-I saw Coach Risedorph at the dorph and his assistants are now
game Saturday. He was there for drawing up the schedule, and the
two reasons apparently  to see first whistie wiU be blown on
a football game and to find candiTuesday or Wednesday. With
dates for the swimming team. Intwelve greek-letter organizations,
cidently, word has it that George three dorms, the boys from shantyMaley and Co. were prowling towrii and any number of G D>
around Forbes Field Saturday L>s eligible it looks like Tech will
night in the hopes of finding Papsee m0re football in the next
py Pappafava, who disappeared couple of weeks than it has in the
into the mud in the fourth quariast couple of years
ter. George reports they found T, ...  , ,, ..
Pappy in a gopher hole on the  ]*.'seems. 3 lot ot actltVJ,y
pitchers mound, muttering. Let 1 yUr por,ter ?Wv, n,v, Rov, back this summer on the localme at em. Grrr. Rah. Rah. Which ,wav did they go Ill remember softbaU diamonds. Fifteen teams
you TeehtU I die Blub Biu" e" f on the Cut and sweat-Pj .  ed it out under the summer sun.
After forty-eight games, two forSuggestion How about giving feits and six play-offs, an indeall the student vet s wives compendent organization, using the
plimentary tickets to the home ATOs handle and the Beta Sigs
football games. I saw a couple of athletes, squeezed out a couple of
them Saturday paying out the full extra runs which gave them the
Pr^cecampus softball crown.
Looks like Tech had two finds In a nutschell the competition
in cross-country. Igor Davies and was split into two leagues with
Gene Cockerel are looking like a the DUs capturing the one with
couple of champs, (thats several games to spare and the
C-H-A-M-P-S.) ATOs ending in a dead heat with
Super Soap the Sigma Nu outfit in the other.
The soccer team ran into a little However, the championship playtrouble at Slippery Rock. It seems f was ! be between the top two
the Rockets have a new kind oi te/s o fh division. This foulSuper Suds or something. The ed the works, for there were four
claim the water isnt any softer eas tied for second behind the
than Pittsburgh water but the s'
booters had a rough old time getThe Betas the TXs, Forbes Hall,
ting the soap off in the shower. and independent Buffaloes had 
They sang Roll Me Over four their own Play-off for the right to
times before the stuff came off. meet the Sigma Nu s, while theDUs battled the ATO indepenGwan Home, 1 our Mudder s dents. The Sigma Nus easily beat
Callin tbe VOL. 10 to 3, leaving three top
Did anybody get the same imteams still in the running,
pression I got of two male cheerThe ATOs took a thriller from
leaders at the pep rally and the the DUs. With the score 5 to 3
game Saturday? They seem to be jn the last half of the seventh, the
under the impression that the DUs scored a run and put men on
main thing is to do anything for first and second with two away,
a laugh. It looks like a couple of Then came a double steal. The
babies out there instead of grownball was rifled down to third. The
ups. If theyd really cheer for the Ump behind the plate cried safe!
team instead of trying to put on The base umpire called out. The
an individual act, maybe theyd home ump reversed his decision,
get somewhere. The flips and cartancj the game was over,
wheels are good, but the other two si Nu was even
who insist on rolling up their c]oser was seyen jece n
pants wearing hats and mugjnto the extra inni The ATQ,S
ging for the crowd could just as scored tw0 their half and the
well curl up and hibernate Sumsi Nus came back ln their do_
ST UP., ,"the riiS  . Tie or-die-stand and loaded the sacksSchnozz,  Everybody wants ta with nobody out stan Kohn on
get inta de act. the rllbber (or the ATO's bore
Everyone at the Saturday game down. The next batter grounded
got the thrill of their lives when to third while a run scored. The
the Kiltie Band made its debut next batter popped to short, and
again. The boys really looked and when Levi closed his mitts on a
sounded like a first-class outfit, drive deep in center field the game
and gave evidence that theyre was over and the ATOs had a
going to rise to the top again. championship.
Frostburg Booters Here Sat. Final standings of the teams:
The SOCCer schedule has been American League Wont Lost Pet.
re-done and another game has ^eta Txfllon ............... 3 3 500
been put on the docket. Frostburg Buffaloes . . . . . . V. V.. . . . q 3 .500
State Teachers is here this SatPi.!!!!!!! I I iSSS
urday for a game in the Tech Kappa sigma ..............2 4 .333bowl. Sigma Alpha Epsilon .. 2 4 .333
Excerpts from Capt. Ben BakindT" Ift S
larzs pep-rally speech, Were sigma Nu ind................6 1 .857
going to do our best ... and Delta4 3 !}
furthermore, the coaches dope Henderson Hail ........... 3 4 .429
tells us we're going to win tomorXSL ;;;;;; ? I
row. George Maley was then scobei mu ................. 1 6 .143elected The Coachs Dope. [Continued on page
Booters Drop 
Opener to S. R.
The Tartan soccer team got off 
to an inauspicious start last Fri
day when they journeyed to Slip
pery Rock and took it on the chin 
from the Rockers, 2-0.
All things considered, Pat OCon
nors charges did very well for 
themselves. When the Tech team 
got on the field, it was the first 
time this year that any of them 
had seen a soccer goal. Due to 
various and sundry confusions 
which have reigned the Tech cam
pus since the start of the term, 
the squad has been forced to prac
tice on the beat-up contours of 
the Forbes St. field with two 
pieces of stray iron pipe serving 
as goal posts. Also there is the fact 
that the Rockets have been prac
ticing since September 11, and 
had it all over the Tartans as far 
as team play was concerned.
As the teams took the field, the 
Carnegie squad was disappointed 
somewhat in finding a dry field. 
Its the first time they havent 
played in the muck since 1944. The 
elements didnt disappoint them 
for long, however, as it started 
to rain in the third quarter. The 
game wasnt more than 15 seconds 
old when the Tech cause suffered 
a severe setback. Bob Dismukes, 
who stood out in practice and 
promised to be one of the Tech 
mainstays, was kicked in the leg 
and suffered a torn ligament in 
his knee. Coach OConnor shiffed 
Len Kroko to Dismukes centerhalf spot and inserted Otto Abra
ham at left-half.
The home teams superiority 
was evidenced in the first quar
ter as they kept the ball in Tech 
territory 90% of the time. How
ever, the Tartan fullbacks rallied 
when they were needed and the 
Rackets were unable to dent the 
cords. Both teams had yet to score 
as the quarter ended.
Carnegie finally found itself at 
the start of the second stanza and 
made the whole affair a little less 
one-sided. The Tartans missed one 
golden opportunity as a pass to 
Mellott in front of the Slippery 
Rock goal was just a little too 
far for the Tech captain to reach 
and the Rockets kicked it out of 
bounds.
On the ensuing corner kick, the 
Carnegie halfbacks were drawn in 
too far and, when the ball was 
banged up the field, Zyler, Slip
pery Rock center-forward, grab
bed it, went the length of the field, 
beat the Tartan defense and rack
ed up the initial marker for his 
team. The Rockets continued their 
aggressive play and almost had 
two more scores before the half 
ended, but their forward line got 
too anxious at the last minute and 
misfired. The half ended 1-0, Slip
pery Rock.
Shortly after the start of the 
third quarter the Rockets had 
another tally. After a corner kick, 
Griffith grabbed the ball and sent 
a looping fly which found its way 
into the top of the Tech goal. 
From that point on, both teams 
fought it out on an even basis 
with both having several scoring 
opportunities but with neither be
ing able to capitalize. The light 
drizzle which came down during 
the last half failed to affect mat
ters and the game ended, 2-0.
Sidelights on the Game: For the 
Tartans, not enough can be said in 
favor of the fullbacks, Kindblom 
and McGee. These two were con
stantly in the Rockets hair and 
were responsible for holding'the 
score down. Kindblom is a letterman of last year while McGee 
won CS before the war.
Slippery Rock played without 
the services of their ace centerforward, Hendschen, who broke 
his wrist in the Rockets opener 
against Buffalo. Lineups:
Carnegie Heckman ...
McGee ........KindbloomKroko .........Dismukes ...King .......
Marmo ........Riehl .............Moraes .....Mellott ............
G .Slippery Rock .............. DutkinLF .RF ........... CharletonLH ........... ZachariasCH .RH ..... Fitzgibbons
OL.......... Thomson
IL ..CF .
IR ..
OR .
Phi Kappa To Award 
Best Gridder Trophy
In a statement to The Tartan, Jack South, president of .the
Rho Chapter of Phi Kappa fraternity, announced, with the 
hearty approval of the athletic department and the coaches, 
that the Phi Kappa fraternity has initiated a new annual tra
dition, the awarding of a trophy to the outstanding football 
plaj^er of the season at Carnegie Tech.
We, the members of Phi Kappa, writes Mr. South, wish 
to show our appreciation for the task that the football team is
undertaking. Techs present ath
letic policy calls for no support 
for the athlete either scholastical
ly or financially. The only incen
tive that our gridders have is their 
love of the game itself and a 
feeling of loyalty for the school. 
As any Techite would surely 
realize, it is not easy to uphold a 
good scholastic record with the 
added load of long nightly foot
ball practice sessions. To enable 
themselves to maintain a satis
factory scholastic record, the ath
lete must work long into the night 
to ifiake up the time lost in prac
tice. Their rewards for their sac
rifices are very meagre.
It is, therefore, our intention to 
give the athletes something to 
shoot at. At the same time we 
wish to revive interest in all ma
jor sports at the Institute. The 
first task is to arouse the interest 
of the student body, then to trans
fer that interest to the alumni, the 
truly potent factor in determin
ing the athletic policy which is 
to be followed in the future. Tech 
has placed winners on the grid
irons of the nations in the past. 
There is no reason why they 
should not produce winners in the
We Predict
Every year at this time every
one is sticking his neck out and 
trying to predict the winners of 
the nations top football games. 
Most of the men seem to rely on 
pure guesswork, so we figure we 
can do as well as the rest. Here 
goes: Columbia-ArmyThe Kaydets riding for a fall, but though
future.
In connection. with the trophy 
award, Mr. South announced that 
the outstanding member of the 
football squad would be selected 
by the team members and the 
coaches. In this manner the most 
deserving member of the squad is 
certainly to be chosen for the 
coveted award.
Present plans call for the pre
sentation of the Most Valuable 
Player Trophy at the Winter 
Carnival Dance, December 14. As 
a further act of appreciation, Phi 
Kappa has declared Open House 
for all members of the football 
squad to their social functions 
after each home game. The Chap
ter is soliciting its alumni for 
funds to enable them to hold a 
banquet for the members of the 
football squad and the coaching 
staff at the close of the football 
season. The first donation was re
ceived from Dr. Claude Schwob, 
the Chapters Faculty Advisor.
Further developments regard
ing the attempt of Phi Kappa to 
arouse interest in athletics at 
Carnegie Tech will be presented in 
forthcoming issues of the Tar
tan.
unbeaten to date, Columbia wont 
have quite enough to turn the 
trick. Army. Yale-CofnelU-Yale 
will be on the rebound from its 
defeat by Columbia. However, 
Cornells good showing against 
Army should give indication that 
the Big Red is not to be trifled 
with. Well take Yale.
&dent of *
forverystu
Electron*cS
ELECTRONIC EMIMEMM
Famous British Publication Covering 
Electronics! Eladio! Television! Radar!
Now Available to American Subscribers
ORDER YOUR SUBSCRIPTION NOW
Electronic Engineering is a compilation of the very latest dis
coveries, techniques, designs, and formulas in the field of radio. 
Highly esteemed engineers, famed research workers and technol
ogists, distinguished lecturers and noted authors have all con
tributed to this vastly informative periodical. Students partic
ularly will find it extremely valuable and illuminating.
This highly specialized, graphically illustrated technical magazine 
for radio engineers is being offered to a limited number of sub
scribers in the United States. Also availableMonographs on 
Electronicspresenting latest scientific datasee coupon.
_______CLIP AND MAIL TODAY!-----
BRITISH PUBLICATIONS, INC.
150 East 35th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
? Attached is my check or money order for $6.00 for 12 issues 
of Electronic Engineering.
? Also $1.25 for Monograph on The Electron Microscope.
Q Also 75c for Monograph on Frequency Modulation.
? Also 75c for Monograph on Plastics in The Radio Industry.
NAME.
ADDRESSCITY____ZONE NO__
22 STATE,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Tech Bows to Oberlin in Opener, 25-0
Yeoman Power, Experience 
Beat Tartans in Rain, Mud
Bert Munhall, Dean of Trainers, 
Relates Anecdotes of Grid Past
For the past 32 years, theres 
been a large individual on hand 
every time a Carnegie Tech ath
lete got stepped on. Whether it be 
a twisted ankle, a broken leg or 
a falling eyebrow, this individual 
has come to the rescue. Yes, we 
mean Bert Munhall, dean of 
trainers.
To know Bert is to know the 
history of athletics at Tech. He 
has more anecdotes to tell than 
Ripley, Necbit and Kieran put 
together. Put Bert in front of any 
picture in the athletic office and 
he can tell you every players 
name, lys history and how many 
cracked ribs he had.
Bert arrived on the Tech scene 
on his birthday, February 17, 1914 
with a letter of introduction sign
ed by some 250 people. Since 
then he has loosened more mus
cles and straightened out more 
bones than any other man in the 
country. His main contribution 
came on the eve of World War I 
when he was responsible for sav
ing a mans life. The life in ques
tion belonged to a back named 
Alldorfer, who, after making a 
diving tackle, lay on the field in 
utter agonyhis neck twisted and 
broken. Munhall, sensing what 
was wrong, carried Alldorfer off 
the field by putting his hands un
der the chin and lifting Alldorf
er off the ground. This act turned 
out to mean the difference, be
tween life and death to the injur
ed man and was discussed in 
many medical circles for years. 
Alldorfer not only lived, but 
fought in the war, was married 
and still leads a normal life.
But all that has happened dur
ing the Munhall regime has not 
been in such a serious vein. Take 
the time during the days of the 
immortal Tech coach, Wally Steffans. One autumn day the Tartans 
came to grips witk Notre Dams
Bert Munhall
famed Four Horsemen. Notre 
Dame ruled odds-on favorite and 
the onlookers were thoroughly 
amazed when half-time came and 
the score stood 13-13. Steffans had 
a good deal to say to the boys at 
half time, so he left orders with 
Munhall to allow no-one in the 
dressing room except the team. It 
happens that one of Steffans life
long friends came to the door and, 
after much debate, was allowed 
to enter. He stepped to the black
board and outlined a defense 
which, he said, Will stop not 
only the Four Horsemen, but also 
any other team you run into. 
Steffans smiled grimly and said, 
Yes, that defense will stop al
most any team in the country. The 
trouble is, were only lowed to 
use eleven men. When tilb friend 
loked at the board and saw his 
pet defense had 12 Xs, he exited sadder but wiser man. (F.S.
Oberlin punt and crossed mid 
field. For the first time in the af
ternoon the Plaid had penetrated 
enemy territory. Bucking the line 
the Tartans picked up a first down 
and then took to the air. On the 
rain soaked gridiron, passing was 
tricky. After a series of incom
plete passes the offensive bogged 
and Oberlin took over as the game 
ended 25-0. Running from a modi
fied T, the Tartan backs were 
held to a meager nineteen yards. 
Ball handling was exceedingly 
difficult under the adverse weath
er which cramped the return of 
Tech to the district football cir
cles after its war time absence. 
Playing purely defensive ball 
throughout the Tartans started in 
a hole' and were held there for 
the entire first half.
STATISTICS 
TECH OBERLIN
2 Total numb. 1st dws 192 First downs-rushing. 160 First downs fwd pass. 20 1st downs on penal. 119 Net yds. gained rush. 2798 Net yds. fwd. pass. 6927 Net yds. offense plays 34815 Yds. of punt returns 2770 Yds. kick-off returns 0112 Net yards gained ... 3755 Fwd. passes thrown. 61 Fwd. passes complet. 30 Fwd passes intercept. 16 Number penalties .. 511 Number of punts ... 629 3/11 Avg. distance of punts 31 5/161 Fumbles ........................ 21 Own fumbles recovd. 2
Notre Dame went on to win.)
Bert Munhall not only spe
cializes in fixing up players, but 
also is ingenious in fixing devices 
which enable an injured man to 
play ball while he is recovering. 
Berts cabinet is filled with oddlooking pieces of metal and leath
er which have been used by men 
with broken noses, jaws and 
hands. Bert was the first man to 
use Aluminum pieces to brace in
jured areas and he can make a 
guard for any kind of injury you 
can name.
Bert is an interesting person to 
meet, but a few words to those 
who plan on making this venture. 
Munhall has one of the most pow
erful pairs of hands the world has 
ever seen and those who shake 
hands with him often go around 
the rest of their lives with only 
one hand. One more tip and well 
close this chapter. When you enter 
the trainers room to have a kink 
taken out and hear the words, 
Did you know that your left leg 
is longer than your right? Get up 
and run for your life!
Dance Tryouts
Tryouts for the Modern Dance 
Club will be held on Tuesday, Oc
tober 22, at 4:30 in the Gym. Miss 
Kanrich will hold practices for 
the tryouts on Tuesday, October 
15; Wednesday, October 16; and 
Thursday, October 17 at 4:30 p.m. 
All sophomores, juniors, and 
seniors who have any interest or 
talent along these lines are both 
eligible and invited to attend.
Notice
There will be an organiza
tion meeting for all Margaret 
Morrison Freshman on Fri
day Oct. 18, at 4:30 in the . 
MMCC Building.
At 1400 Saturday afternoon Techs hopes were high for a 
successful return to the football scene. By 1700 these same hopes 
(plus 3 halfbacks a fullback and 2 guards) were buried in the 
muck of Forbes Field.
Muck is hardly the word for the condition of Steeler 
Stadium. The rain which came down continuously for 12 hours 
preceding the game made the field a sea of mud and hampered 
the Tartan T formation considerably. Notwithstanding, the 
Oberlin team had too much experience for Tech to cope with, 
and Bill Donohoes charges were 
forced to play for the breaks, 
which never came. The final score 
found Oberlin on top, 25-0.
Oberlin kicked-off to Wilson 
who returned to the Tech 33. A 
line play failed and Korfonta 
kicked to Dipman who slipped 
away from a couple of tacklers 
and brought the ball to the Tech 
46. The Ohioans, shifting from the 
T to the single-wing had a first 
down in two plays. Temporarily 
halted by a penalty, Oberlin took 
to the air. Dipman faded to mid
field and flipped the wet leather 
to Addison, who took it in stride 
on the Tech 20 and outraced the 
would-be tacklers for the first 
score. The conversion-attempt 
went wide. The rest of the quar
ter found the Skibos continually 
back deep in their own territory 
and forced to kick frequently. By 
the time the quarter ended, both 
teams were muddy from head to 
toe and the new gold pants of the 
Tartans were well saturated with 
the Rooney U. mire.
Oberlin Scores Again
Highbergers punting kept Car
negie from further trouble in the 
rest of the period. The outset of 
the second stanza found the Yeo
men on the Tech twelve. The Tar
tans dug in and repulsed this 
scoring attempt. Kicking from be
hind his own goal line, Rapoport 
booted to his forty. A series of 
line bucks and an interference 
penalty brought the visitors to the 
Tech six and scoring position.
Tech held for three downs, but 
on the fourth, Dipman running 
wide around the right end tallied 
again. The conversion was again 
wide and the score stood at 12-0.
Lil Abner Wahrenburg took 
the kick-off and returned it to his 
thirty-two. For the first time the 
Tech offense went into action.
Little Sammy Highberger slashed 
off tackle for five yards, however 
a bad pass from center pushed the 
Tartans deep in their own terri
tory. Once again Highberger was 
forced to kick. In six plays, Ober
lin was on our 16 from where 
Johnson skirted left end to pay 
dirt. Oddisons kick was good and 
the Skibos were behind 19-0. The 
half ended with visitors on our 13.
Tech Flashes Offense
The third quarter ended with a 
score. It was during this period 
that Tech garnered the first of its 
two first downs. Wahrenberg took 
the kick-off and ran to the thirty.
Maley flipped a short pass to Lil 
Abner for nine yards and Maley 
reeled off six yards for Techs 
initial first down. The drive was 
stopped when Donohue was tossed 
for a six yard loss. Highberger 
went back and' kicked to the 
Oberlin twenty-two. Dipman, 
sparking the Oberlin offensive, 
picked up the yardage for a first 
down, but the Tech line playing 
their 5-4-2-defense got tough and 
held the Yeomen stationary, forc
ing them to kick after gaining 
nothing against a revamped Skibo 
line. The game see-sawed back 
and forth around the mid-field 
stripe and as the quarter ended 
Oberlin was once again in high 
gear. In a sustained drive from 
their own thirty Oberlin drove to 
the Tech four and Johnson went 
over for the score. The point went 
wide and the score stood at 25-0.
Late in the fourth quarter the 
Tartan Terror* came to life.
Pappy Pappaiava picked up an
LINEUPS:
Carnegie Tech Pos. OberlinMatonis ...................L.E................... AddisonDeMusey ...............L.T............... McGinnisBaklarz (C) ..........L.G........................ ClarkGroomes ............... C.......................... Bair
Shapiro ...................R.G.................... WrightMeyerfc ...................R.T.................... KeeseyWolfarth .................R.E...............CavanughWilson ..................Q.B........................ RuppKorfonta ..............L.H............Dipman (C)Stewart ..................R.H.................. JohnsonWahrenburg____ F.B.........................Hewitt
Carnegie Tech .......... 0 0 0 0 0
Oberlin ........................ 6 13 0 625
TouchdownsAddison, Dipman, John
son (2).
Point after touchdownAddison (place kick).
Missed tries for points after touchdownsAddison (3 place kicks).
SubstitutionsCarnegie TechBrazon, Williamson, MiUer, Janosky, Edema, Fronko, Trautman, Keats, Schnitgen, Maxton, Guttendorf, Sant, Dom, Vranovich, Heidenreich, Donohue, Papafava, Korfonta, Reich, Maley, ORourke, Irvine, Ware, Highberger.  Oberlin  Mulen, Hacker, Miller, Calvert, Bums, Hirsch, Neblett, Simmons, Zimmerman, Haggard, Kinkopf, Kosanovich, Scott, Spicer, Campbell, Wiley, Tuck, Carey, 
Becker.
Officials  Referee; Karl Bohren, Pitt. Umpire; John Kostecki, Pitt. Linesman; 
Louis Bemmler, Brown.
Editorial
[Cntinued from page 4] 
by the school, plus the spirit of 
cooperation and the generosity of 
the churches, the YWCA, the Red 
Cross, and the public, are respon
sible for rescuing the many home
less students.
Speaking for these students, 
who otherwise might not have 
been able to attend college here, 
we would like to express our ap
preciation to the aforementioned 
groups whose combined efforts 
eradicated a situation that might 
have become quite desperate. 
Thanks for your help.
Science Club Meets
The Science Club of Margaret 
Morriyon will have its first meet
ing on Tuesday, October 22, at 
4:30 P. M. The club is now sell
ing dissecting kits which may be 
octa.ned through Margaret Brow a, 
McGill Uail

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946
44Eureka! At Last. I Made It 
The CIT BookstoreThat Is
SKIBOSCRAPS
Are you standing in line for 
Skibo or the Bookstore?
I dont know! Ive been here 
only a half an hour and the peo
ple in front of me claim we wont 
know until we either smell the 
coffee or are jabbed in the back 
by a T-square.
These alarming conditions are 
just a sample of what has exist
ed at Carnegie Tech during the 
past week. Unsuspecting instruc
tors blithely read to each class 
a list of supplies to be picked up 
at the bookstore. All Carnegies 
eager beavers hurriedly cashed 
checks to cover the amount for 
books. Freshmen, innocently ask
ing their way, were told that the 
bookstore was located beside the 
post office in the basement of Ad
ministration Hall.
But could they get near the 
bookstore? No, of course! Hornes 
nylon line had nothing on C.I.T.s 
book line. Instead of making coke 
dates, progressive fraternity men 
said, See you in the book line 
at 2:45. Ambitious coeds care
fully combed their hair and 
straightened their dinks to be sure 
of impressing the tall blonde fel
low they knew would be getting 
an English book.
G. I.s returning from months of 
standing in chow lines confessed 
that they thought that maybe the 
school was putting on a welcome 
program to make them feel at 
home. (Not that they appreciat
ed the efforts to make their ad
justment to college life easy.) The
AIEE Attends 
Smokers, Picnics
During the summer semester 
the Carnegie chapter of the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers, under the direction of 
Chairman Arnold Horelick, com
pensated for the lack of campus 
social activities by several func
tions. Sunday afternoon picnics 
were held at Twin Willows and 
Forest Hills Parks and there were 
two smokers featuring prominent 
engineers as speakers. All the 
affairs were well attended.
Mr. Lynn, head of the Direct 
Current Machinery Department 
of Westinghouse, spoke at the 
first smoker about his thorough 
study of German Marine equip
ment. At the second event the 
members had the privilege of 
hearing one of the countrys 
leading exponents of radio con
trolled missiles, Dr. R. D. Wyckoff of the Gulf Research and De
velopment Company. Dr. Wyckoff 
presented movies of the develop
ment and actual combat tests of 
the Azon bomb used in the Bur
ma theatre. His discussion of both 
the Azon and Razon bombs 
brought many inquiries from an 
attentive audience.
At the last seminar meeting of 
the summer term, the new offic
ers of the Carnegie Tech chapter 
of A. I. E. E. were elected. They 
are: Cloyd Mettott, chairman;
Walter Renberg, assistant chair
man; Harold DeBolt, program 
chairman; Ken King, assistant 
program chairman; Dennis 
OBrien, secretary; William Hines, 
treasurer; Harvey Johnson, so
cial chairman; James Franz, edi
tor of Large Charge; William 
Martin, professional relations 
chairman; Edward Fronko, pub
licity chairman; William Fry, as
sistant secretary; Warren Dick
son, assistant treasurer; J. E. Sun
der, assistant social chairman; 
Francis Clark, assistant editor; 
Jack Ritchie, assistant profession
al relations chairman; and Fred 
Frank, assistant publicity chair
man. ,
Home Ec, Notice
The Home Economics club 
of Margaret Morrison is hold
ing its first meeting of the sea
son Wednesday, October 16,
In Recreation Hall. The club 
is not limited to members of 
the department; all others in
terested are welcome. Dues 
for the year are $1.00.
beaming faces of so many pretty 
girls sprinkled throughout the 
line helped to shorten the long
wait.
Now we all have our books, and 
are hard at work on advanced as
signments. And do you know, Ill 
bet there isnt any line at all at 
the bookstore today.
Dance Opens Year 
For Newman Club
Friday evening, October 11th, 
the Newman Club sponsored a 
registration dance at Thistle Hall 
from 9 until 12. The purpose of 
this dance was to enroll for the 
fall semester all former members 
and any new members.
The Newman Club is an inter
collegiate organization composed 
of Catholic college students from 
Mt. Mercy, University of Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania College for 
Women, Duquesne, and Carnegie 
Tech. It sponsors group discus
sions once a week, a retreat held 
once a year, and at least one so
cial event a month. Typical of 
these affairs are dances, teas, and 
during the summer rtionths, pic
nics.
The clerical advisor for the club 
is Father Leo A. Kraus of St. 
Pauls Cathedral. Father Kraus 
has had much  experience in 
handling young peoples groups. 
While in Ambridge he. was the ad
visor for a group of 400 members 
and has been with the Newman 
club in our city for four years. 
Gerald Obert of Pitt is president 
of the club, and Jane E. Grim, a 
senior at C. I. T. is vice-president.
Father Kraus is interested in 
getting as large a representation 
from each of the campuses as is 
possible in order to obtain the 
broadest aspect of collegiate life. 
Any Carnegie Tech students who 
may be interested in this activity 
are urged to watch the bulletin 
boards for notices of further meet
ings.
Technical Notice
Expert draftsmen are badly 
needed for work on the CAR
NEGIE TECHNICAL. Anyone 
interested in this type of 
work will be welcomed at the 
TECHNICAL office this Sat
urday from 10:30 through 
4:00.
Hockey, Tennis, 
Archery, Start 
W.A.A. Season
The Womens Athletic Associa
tion has begun its fall sports pro
gram of field hockey, tennis, and 
archery. The varsity hockey team 
begins its practices this week, and 
the season will continue until 
Thanksgiving. Practices are 
scheduled for Monday, Tuesday, 
and Wednesday at 4:30. Candi
dates can sign up in the womens 
gym office at any time during the 
day.
Hours have been arranged when 
the tennis courts will be free for 
W.A.A. use. These hours are 
posted in the gym office. Archery 
has been scheduled for Wednes
day at 3:30 and Thursday at 4:30.
Dance club has started its reg
ular activities. Tryouts for those 
interested in joining the club will 
be held October 22.
The swimming pool is open 
Wednesday evenings from 7:00 
until 10:00 and Saturday after
noons from 2:00 until 5:00, except 
when a home football game is be
ing played.
All women registered at Carnegie Tech are members of W.A.A. 
To be active they need only come 
over to the gym in their free time. 
Team sports are scheduled at defi
nite times, but the gym is always 
open. Girls are welcome to en
ter regular gym classes if they 
consult the instructor beforehand.
Lists are posted in the locker 
room in the womens gym on 
which to sign up all hours spent in 
athletics. Thirty hours win nu
merals; ninety hours, a sweater; 
and one hundred and twenty 
hours, a letter. Further informa
tion about the W.A.A. and its 
award system is posted on bulletin 
boards in Margaret Morrison, Fine 
Arts, and the womens gym.
In the past it has been the cus
tom to open the gossip column 
with a prosaic, list of matters 
which we in the trade call items. 
Careful research among the stu
dent body has disclosed that when 
you open your Tartan you read 
this first. So with this now im
mutable fanfare we disclose the 
more insipid happenings of the 
week.
Well start with Bill Carstesen. 
Seems the hostess at the Canary 
Inn thought he was a war hero 
complete with three gold stars so 
she had a spot light beamed on 
him as she explained that he was 
the pilot of a B-29 and was sta
tioned in Japan. Now every time 
he enters a room all the SAEs 
stand up and bow . . . then
theres Gene Condle whos study
ing the Pittsburgh Pirates via 
Miss Baseball of 1946.
But all is not flowers and blond 
frosh. . . . Betas Daugherty and 
McLain are cutting each others 
time and throats over a certain 
DG . , . and Lil Abner Wahrenburg crippled Merle Wolfe, Delt 
brotherhood, that is.
The PiKAs have won the whocan-marry-the-most - of - its - members-off contest now that Louis 
Wetzel, Jack Russell, Harold Ak
ers, Louis Valentour, and Robert 
Little have taken the oath.
Jim Voelz had the knot tied, as 
did Roger Lopere. . . . Tom DeBolt married Dolores McCreanor.
. . . Jack Moore, Gwen Enery. 
. . . Doc Willis, Ann Dubsic. . . . 
Jean Bates changed her name to 
Page also by the usual method.
Then theres Bob Hanover en
gaged to a girl in Ohio, a fast 
Romeo out of circulation, but Big 
Wolf Griggs is here to take his 
place . . . also femhunting is
Fangs Herrmann so frosh had bet
ter be aware. . . .
Question of the Week ....
Do you believe that some Delts 
stood in the rain and risked colds 
while they talked to their dates 
at a South Park Picnic??
Now we come to the summers 
rather impressive list of pinnings. 
. . . Bon Marshalls is lendleased 
to Janie from PCW. . . . Mary 
Jane Horridge has George Ben
netts. . . . Ken Scheppele gave 
his to Mary Gilliland. . . . Betts 
Baur with Andy Sterretts . . . 
and Shirley Enslin with Andy 
Krestels . . . Sally Thompson has 
Don Armours and Jack Goodill 
gave his to Eleanor Jackson. . . . 
we end up with Helen Zimmer
man wearing Bill Thunhursts, 
comma sob exclamation point;
Don Jochums wife Betty Jane 
had a little girl. . . . The Jack 
Reeses are expecting in two 
weeks, and the Doctor says itll 
be a couple. . . . Howard Seigals 
wife, the former Norma Caplan, 
who went to Tech and who proves 
MMCC girls are good for some
thing, had a little girl.
WHEN STYLE'S IN THI PICTURE
SSL
W.L. DOUGLAS #S HOE CO.. BROCKTON IS. MASS.
PITTSBURGH
205 FIFTH AVENUE
417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. 6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty)
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING
//
a
Wow! This job 
sure keeps me hopping!
TJELIEVE me, fitting all the new dial and manual switchJD board equipment and long distance facilities into Bell 
System central offices all around the country is keeping me 
mighty busy!
In a single big dial exchange there may be 4,000 miles 
of wire. I may have to solder 2,500,000 connections 
before*everythings ready for you to dial a number.
Besides installing this complex apparatus, I build it. 
Thats part of my job as manufacturer for the Bell System.
I also purchase all manner of things for the Bell Tele
phone Companies . . . and distribute these supplies to them 
along with the equipment I make.
Ever since 1882, Ive been helping to make our nations 
telephone service the best in the world. Today. . . with 
the Bell Systems construction program of more than 
$2,000,000,000 in full swing. . . Im busier than ever.
Remember my name . . . its Western Electric.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL4LSYSTEM SINCE 1882

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
j 5 oo Al ill ion Filters Sold 
. . .THIS IS WHY:
I * Reduces nicotine and tars
I * Filters flakes and juicesII * Improves tobacco aroma 
I * Cools and cleanses smoke
| When fillet is stained from 
1 tars and nicotine, replace
I with fresh one.
%IMPORTED
BRIAR
& :
ROYAL DEMUTH
WITH BOX OF 25 FIL
THE CHURCH OF THE REDEEMER
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion-8 A.M.; Morning Prayer-11 A.M.
Tech CANTERBURY CLUB meets Sunday, October 
20th at 6 P. M. at the Rectory back of the Church. All students welcome. REV. HUGH S. CLARK, Rector.
Man on the
Inflation at Tech?
In the past few days rumors 
have been circulated to the effect 
that prices at Carnegie Tech have 
risen excessively. The Tartan 
staff has gathered some statistics 
concerning these rumors which 
should dispel any erroneous ideas 
which have been formed.
Contrary to public opinion it is 
an established fact that dormitory 
rentals have not been increased 
from pre-war levels. Rentals for 
the F. P. H. A. (Federal Public 
Housing Administration) housing 
units for the veterans range from 
$55 a semester for double occu
pancy to $60 a semester for single 
occupancy. Also we see that apart
ments for the married couples 
range only from $25 to $38.75 a 
month. When we note that all 
charges are government approv
ed and include light, heat, and 
water, it is quite evident that 
prices here are very reasonable.
As for food charges, it has been 
established that those eating at 
the campus restaurants must pay 
approximately 18 per cent more 
than in pre-war times. Compar
ed, however, to the national aver
age increase in food costs, which 
is reported to be 25 per cent above 
Pre-war levels, it is evident that 
there has been no abnormal rise 
in prices.
End
Every year, around this time, 
some of my very best friends rate 
lower than Rudy Vallee on my 
own particular Hit Parade. And I 
think Gilbert & Sullivan (in their 
song Ive Got A Little List from 
The Mikado) made a big mis
take in not including that particu
lar brand of human beings which 
cause me more misery than my 
hay fever. About this time every 
year, acquaintances and friends 
(in an effort, I suppose, to 
Strengthen The Ties That Bind) 
dash up to you with an Ive Been 
To Guatemala look in their eye 
and blithely. ask: And what did 
YOU do this summer? Uh huh. Id 
also like to strengthen the ties 
that bindright around their col
lective necks. Little they care 
what you did over the summer, 
but theyre just dying to tell you 
that theyve solved the problem of 
the National Debt, or took all the 
parts in Aida, or whiled away 
the time on a houseboat plying 
between Alexandria and Cairo.
Was a time when people would 
ask me what Id done over the 
summerI would blush and mur
mur incoherently something about 
Rio de Janeiro and the Mardi 
Gras. Then those people would 
say (always) How lovely. Now 
let me tell you about aquaplaning 
on the Dead Sea. But not any 
more. Im going to tell you ex
actly what I did this summer and 
if you dare stop reading this col
umn, the combined ghosts of Wil
liam Allen White, Westbrook Pegler, and Mrs. Roosevelt (I put 
White in there to referee) will 
haunt you for the rest of your nat
ural life. So there.
Other people recite poetry, or 
sing, or play the zitherbut not 
me! Oh no! I type. And I also 
take shorthand. So while others 
were sprawled over the sands 
from Maine to. Key West, I slaved 
away all day over a hot Reming
ton Rand (Noiseless) for the De
partment of State, Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania, in Harrisburg. 
Now that weve established our
selves geographically, I might as 
well tell you what I did; I think 
that would be real nice. Wella 
long time agosome fool decided 
that companies should incorpor
ate and merge. And I, in turn, 
incorporated and merged all sum
mer from eight thirty til five. It 
really wasnt a bad job (in fact, 
I really rather liked it) and I 
have only a few kicks which I 
think are entirely justified. First 
of all, I did not like the idea of 
putting My dear sir at the be
ginning of all my letters. Those 
lawyers were not MY dear sir; I 
probably wouldnt even like them.
Senior Fence
By Casey Stine
Secondly, Mildred (my Rem
ington Rand  Noiseless) had a 
peculiar habit of typing things the 
way I believe they should be 
spelled. After all, how should I 
know you spell DelAware that 
way and not DelEware? Thirdly, 
most lawyers are in a ruttake 
for instance the law firms of Mc
Grath, McGrath, and McGrath or 
Bialkowski, Bialkowski, and Bialkowski. In the fourth place, I 
think lunch hours are entirely too 
short. How can anyone possibly 
pay the telephone bill, go to the 
dentist, see fifteen minutes of the 
new movie which just opened and 
the one you just know you wont 
have time to see the whole way 
through, help old ladies across the 
street, feed the squirrels in the 
park, take back your overdue 
books to the libraryand then ex
pect to find enough time to eat! 
Im all in favor of reforms alon^ 
this line and will wholeheartedly 
support any gubernatorial candi
date who promises three hour 
lunch periods. Lastly, I am also 
in favor of not working during 
the months when it is so hot that 
the only air you get is when you 
push back your typewriter car
riage. I hope I havent given you 
the idea that I dislike workoh 
mercy no! I loooooooooooove it!
And to prove it. Ive just got 
to tell you about the people I 
worked with and then youll know 
why I loved it so. They were all 
such characters (Note to Dick 
Heckman: Shaddup!) and we 
got along fine. There was Annabelle who has a gas refrigerator, 
but who also has a sister who
Notice
The Womens Glee Club has 
scheduled practices for every 
Tuesday and Thursday after
noon at 4:30 in room 103 MM. 
Tryouts were held on Mon
day, October 14th. Interested 
women who missed the tryout 
meeting are urged to turn out 
for the first practice this aft
ernoon.
has no gall-bladder. There was 
Mimi who just cant get nothin 
done today. And then there was 
Dotwhod been in the WACs 
and whose theme song was Sound 
offonetwo etc. We had Lois 
who was a palmist and had fingers 
that were only one-half inch long. 
There was Helen who was buying 
her trousseau; Millie who talked 
about her sister-in-laws baby; 
Renee who sat beside me and con
sequently learned lots of select 
new swear words every time I 
made a mistake; and Blair who 
proofread in a voice that would 
even put Morpheus to sleep. 
Everyone was realwonderful, 
however, and I managed to leave 
before I was asked to resign.
In the three months that I was 
there, nothing really exciting hap
pened. Of course, there was the 
time when I found sixty million 
roaches in a box of envelopes, 
that day when I filed all of the 
Es in the M drawer for no 
especial reason, and then there 
was always the time I got the 
hiccoughs while talking to a law
yer over the phone. And finally, 
there were moments such as when 
I had one of my frequent mental 
relapses and put notes on every
ones typewriter telling them to 
call a certain number. Which they 
all promptly did and got the
Sno-White Diaper Service. But 
little things like that make life 
livable.
Now, Ive returned to school to 
dedicate my life to the Beanery 
and Art (in that order) and, look
ing back over the summer, I find 
I had a real good time . . . 
Harrisburg spelled backwards 
spells grubirraH and does not 
spell enjoyment any way you look 
at it. I guess Im just versatile 
or maybe Im a martyr!
So, my friends, I dont really 
give a hangnail whether you 
were at Biarritz with Elsa Max
well, or whether you were on the 
cover of Popular Mechanics, or 
even if you were voted Miss 
Wildwood of 1946.
Im the Champion of the 
Working Girl. Put that in your 
proverbial pipe and proverbially 
smoke it.
Male Singers 
Organize
The Mens Glee Club of Carne
gie Tech held its organizational 
meeting for* the fall semester yes
terday in room 103, Margaret 
Morrison. Cliff Taylor, student 
director, presided. Discussion of 
plans for the coming year was 
the major business on the agenda. 
In addition to home concerts the 
schedule includes several out-oftown trips.
Although the club has a .large 
number of last years veterans re
turning, there are still a number 
of vacancies to be filled and any 
students, particularly freshmen, 
who may be interested in this ac
tivity are urged to watch the bul
letin boards for notices announc
ing further meetings and try
outs for the club.
WORLD-FAMOUS PAINTER OF THE AMERICAN SCENE
world s
most wanted
oen
 Truly remarkable is the preference for Parker 
51s. Recently, American pen dealers, by a 
margin of 3.37 to 1, named Parker the mostwanted pen. More-wanted than all other lead
ing makes combined.  Today, more 51s 
than ever before are being shipped. So see 
your dealer soon.  Here is a pen made to 
true precision standardsnot just hurried out. 
The sturdy tubular point starts writing 
instantly, smoothly. For the tip is a ball of
micro-polishedOsmiridium.  Onlythe51 
is designed for satisfactory use with Parker 
51 Ink that dries as it writes!  Three 
colors, $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. 
Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Com
pany, Janesville, Wis. and Toronto, Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1946
Elegy
[Continued from page 2] 
true picture of wartime C.I.T. may 
differ greatly from these nostalgic 
reflections. But as the returning 
student views Carnegie Tech to
day, the only thing he recognizes 
from days gone by is the name 
and of course the academic stand
ards. All else is but a memory: 
the small and intimate student 
body has given way to a bustling 
crowd, pushing each other out of 
the way in overcrowded class 
rooms and in long queues for food 
and books; frenzied activity and a 
sense of getting nowhere fast has 
taken the place of the coordinated 
effort we used to know. No office 
seems to have retained its old lo
cation, and instead of the cozy 
Hut there is the coldly impersonal 
Beanery.
There were days when our fra
ternities wondered whether the 
next morning would still see them 
active, when five or ten men, do
ing the work of thirty, struggled 
to preserve an organization they 
loved above all else. Thus the 
brothers were welded together; 
they grew to know and to like 
each other as few people ever 
have the opportunity to do. To
day the fraternities have expanded 
into sprawling and unmanageable 
collections of casual acquaintances, 
some people living at the frater
nity houses, seme at the dorms,
Letter
[Continued from page 2]
in advance of our own workers in 
these vital fields. The British 
government has, however, been in 
active pursuit of its ancient policy 
of Divide the Continent and re
main Supreme. Whereas they 
supported Germany against France 
the last time, they are now sup
porting that beaten nation against 
Russia. I am greatly afraid that 
the freed war criminals will be 
used by the British (they are al
ready reported headed toward 
that zone) as a rally point for the 
German people. The fools appar
ently will never learn until its 
too late that they are inherently 
weak and that the next time Ger
many will be able to take on all 
of us, Russia included, and, with
out the aid of Japan, beat the en
tire world. Their science may not 
be any better than our own but 
their use of it most certainly is, 
as many an American can testify. 
Most of the major improvements 
were first brought to the battle
field by the Wehrmacht and the 
Luftwaffe.
Must the United States continue 
to follow weakly behind the fal
lacious and outmoded policies of 
the British Empire? Whether we 
wish to maintain a firm and last
ing peace, or whether we wish to 
prepare to fight Russia, it must 
be without the aid of Germany. 
A nation which took on the en
tire world virtually alone in two 
separate wars and each time came 
closer to winning will certainly 
be able to complete the job next 
time with the aid of swiftly and 
properly applied atomic physics 
and rocketry. Isnt twice burned 
enough?
HUBERT AARONSON,
Metallurgy, Jr.
Intramurals
[Continued from page 4]
Please Note that opinions ex
pressed in this column are not 
necessarily those of the Sports 
Editor, the faculty, or the other 
eleven fraternities to which this 
writer does not belong.
The intramural schedules will 
be released today and the play
offs will begin tomorrow, Octo
ber 16.
Give To The 
Community Chest
and others all over town, meeting 
each other more by chance than 
by intention in classes or at the 
Beanery.
Of course very little can be 
done about all this at the present 
time. Conditions have changed, 
not only at Carnegie Tech, and in
a way it is certainly an encourag
ing sign that so many persons wish 
to study hereone should not 
wish it otherwise. There is no
deeper meaning behind this Jere
miad, no message hidden between 
its lines . . . it is just a nostalgic 
elegy for bygone days.
TRIPLE KING IN THE REALM 
OF BASEBALL
y&u4&tif ayat/c ..THEY SATISFY!
ALL OVER AMERtC^-CH
40000,,,N22NT,iiMi^MtMMtMMRF1ELD IS TOPS! %
.j.-Jy .....:...... .........  :Copyright 1X6, Liocnr ft Mm* thechh Ca
