4 Public Menace 
pis Weeks Question 
Itndents Protest ' 
lie Yellow Peril :
I By ARTHUR FIZZBRAIN
 SENATOR HUEY LONG/f* n,,] 
ic character, stepped from e Hj union Slallon the other da' Tiler looking around the pJatfor Kr a minute, he suddenly! decided ibat be liiint like the type ot people assembled, and he and bis alodyguard sailed into. the. crowd glilh no bolds barred. The biggest Ibrlof the crowd..whlcli was standing in front of the bodyguard at Hat time happened to be none, filber than our own Professor fiWon. When the. smoke of convict bad lifted and the Professor |[ad taken inventory, he found himsClf io he lighter by two. teeth, sii pencils mmked C.I.T., three, cigai 
Fftults, a copy of Ballyhoo, a B03 gicout KnlTe, and one good humor, gfoheii asked Tor a statement, the 
aiclim replied:
1 fail to see the 
ntt!01T&! !-??/?/$$!!**$.
THIS WEEKS. QUESTION rn'haf is yonr opinion oi Gertrude Jlein? Several members ot the facility were quizzed, and the/-----
) reason for you
TUSDLD 
TO HERTZ
Pfunhp.I. ' BuiMer-iipper. (teM HouseAsk her If Bhe hasj 
^friend. rot.i
s, Ifs dandruff.''Alexander J. Kosfellow-. scmcnt. Arts BuildingSimply! asmpwdous. ' colossal. giganticIn 1 
. even mediocre!"
VN ODE TO THE GREEK SITUATION
J crm always tell a Kappa Sig i* (he goofy ties he wears:J can always tell an A.T.O. r the wav he rants and swear:(J can always tell a Theta Xi by the clrls be dates and such,
n always tell a Beta {BUT you cannot tell him much.
J STUDENTS OF other untveratfiles throughout the country piU no fdoubt be pleased to learn. .ttiat'-tbe s school at Camegle has at last gluten down prrtl decided -to let flhe'rest of the school have a hand in -the finer things of life. Appar-. enliy. decldiDg. that t-faj wenot receiving enoug (he so-called Boheihlau. agreed to pitch in And help with ~PU^QPt^hMLJiter.tej-'tte slide rulerS,outon . one1 u roughest assignments. thejr|..... findn Rood old PuppetyShow. But the boys came;'through, gin fine feuie and haveh handled 'ark better than tbeDramats|them6elvos. We are also Interested *r of the new.'elections'on mpus. Wm. F. . Becker (For,advt.) has been .elected . . . Thurman H. Croft has bejpnnroached hv the Womens Gufld, niton Goldbloom went Pbl Kappa,' at, and Will Landsberg r*~ lledecd by Dragons. Ceriliiry; 
progress!
.................... ..... But this
is NOT inevitable. All the id need do to1 keep out. of this (scrap is to adopt the Flzzbraln |plan for universal tranquility, iniricaie set up' covers more 1 
I4000 pages (shall 1, 
... sloops, and 
polyps in case war is declared so that In no event need there.be any (shortage ot gingerbread, or ltuaslon (dressing. The. secoiid Step,
VOL. 20No. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1935
AT SEA OFF
Paper To Appear Daily; 
Student Council 
Fires Editor
MISSING DEAN
. which
BULLETIN ,
After hurried consultation, stuint council, decidedto fire Editor Landsberg-and to sell the Tart: Hertz Newspaper will publish It dally.
Unable to put up any longer with the radicalism which has been creeping iDto the TiirLin under tie guidance of Willy (St.  George). Landeberg, a known communist, itudent council has been forced to fire Mjr. Landsberg and' to take advantage of a generous offer ma,d6 by:Hertz Newspapers, Inc.,. which will henceforth publish the, Tartan daily; - 
Said William Sahdali Hertzi prea} iderit of the national chain which has bought the Tartans rights (the lefts were tied wjth "  "blue ribbon and sent to northern" Arizona, when 'lie said there be two mates fo every sole): We must wipe from the fair face of Carnegie the rosy blush of communism,' and leaped to his-feet to quote in booming voice the>tlning words.
idard fovs the sting up of a gold stan-___,nim so that the China*
Ith his kopecs need have (nothing to fear from the Prussian ,ii his copeks. This would.-mean it it. would be practically/ijn.PQSle fov any natjon;to h^nch^or....oot cunny-thumb wlthbut, getting, itself into.serious trouble with the 
witch doctors.  -. .V.' .Only by this' andi.by .this alpne ill we be able to free jjiirselves
from';' our Bulgrayian-and-to'keep ' for.Atnerica |Wliat belongs, to Americans.
WHY IS IT that s I today a
whom he uspected to.ha/e been smuggled in from Mxico.
Chanted a chorus from behind
my. invective  Is changing Techls perspective From white to rosy -red. .. 
EDITOR FLEES j. ( Hearing 'o! his defeat.at ,tl
IEvW bMnd5iSa#IW^T mokeIn bie bold letter!, "Down with tbe W. 'AA. It to.nmwja/ttjtliIs heading for northern Siberia, where he will pass the rest of hia life horsing around with Trotsky, famed advocate, of violence am revolution. .Under-the new management th. Tartan expects to do big things starting in tomorrow's sixteen pageditiou will be twd .full-pages c
ueen responsible for Carnegie.; swing to the left and; a complete set Sunday School Lessons' tor
STAFF ENLARGED .in. addition tli Tavtan staff ha? he'en enlarged until it now con, photographer on full.time complete set of underwear 
buttons, who 'will be on half All this' is because o the. garment milkers and. photo snappers code o;. 35,^Sunder which > the Tartan iratesi.- Otherwise we would rtbers and a fine kettle offlab tWat would be with our dea^.
line moved up, to'2:56 and tbe echtortearing his'.hair because
..iv fleet didnt make any 
difference and that if the groundhog.. had seen his shadow there would have been daffodils instead of this sorry drizzle.. ,1 suppse it, hinces back to the tlme.when  Hoover was only, the, president the United States, before he was lirector of the New York Lite Inranee Company. 'In those day: was a relatively simple problem, t-now witii balloons 'sailing ,lnt< 
4 slratosphere-and sphres sail ir> into the balloonostrat, the quesproblem seems to'.take Jum at the .corber^of I Highland. This' danger i fled by the fact that no: longer is ica a fanningv'community but
get your marvelous'insight into ^fr-3robleins^f^merf^v7Mri:Fj
brain? But ;IromithfeVl.ower.pftly -''the ;..drone.. of'.tpie
OR. MILLER PLAGUED 
BYREDS
Wife Makes Me Wear 
Rubbers, Complaiiis 
Nagged Professor
who is missing in the thick fog of Cape Cod where he has a summ1. home.. This exclusive Tartan photo shows tbe Dean rigged up.as-; yatcfasman aboard his sailboat Good Ship Lollyppp. . ' .  -
j1MELO N1ATIIBAT 
KBPLoTO Bp NLBA
SUED
Prominent Carnegie Hero 
Is Sued for Breach 
,Of Promise
" Dubix> all, Carnegie: being sued for ! promise by. Miss'Brown
Fred atound stu< breach ot jThis action catne as a complete surprise to Mr. Dubln who claims tlial. tie treated Tier no' different than his oilier | hundreds of admirers. .Mr. Dubln says: They cannot pin anythingon me. Im perfectly, innocent and my letters will .prove it.1',The following are a few/ofj'-thei letters submitted by Mr. Doibin to prove his point:/  Monday.Dearest'Alice:. Publi cYou should have seen the crow at the station to greet me. There' must have been thousands,iand g09h, even the photographe there. Incidentally, Pres, velt was also nn the train.'Darling, do yourthlnk: the photograph does me Justice? Im sorr  didnt have my helmet on; but juldnt find any large enough flt'and the cameraman had, to take the picture In the backyard'
FRED S. DUB
for breach of promise byadmirers. Mr., Dubin is shown in a characteristic pose in 
backyard..   '..
sensational #vr happens.
IN TODAYS 
'TARTAN
Pressed-'Ham .....................
Date and Nut .........
Nut and Date
Pressed Pants ...................
Baked Ham ................
Ham;on Rye ................
Liver Nunions ...'.... .----
Butter Scotch Sunday.. .......
Weoitdays:-../....,........
Nuts an.4'JDatesV:..;.v ........
Trip^' ,1...' ..........
Hash .v-,y. ; -V*  *
Schnitzand'Knepf.
Knepf
SchnitzHead Lettuce.;. .    ......    
Spinach '. ^ .   :'      
?.emicau. i-..
' G.arhe|fe"Tc-3fe-^p-^. -^<^0
iDudy^P     ........
Mckfees Rocks 
I want some consecrated lye, 
slowly announced, as he entered 
the store. "You mean concenated lyc. suggested tbe druggist 
5 he repressed a. smil.
I do. It does nutmeg any diffei'- 
Tta what I camphor, a 
how. What .does ; it sulphui 
Eighteen cent6 a . can. Then 
give ine a  can. "I -never cinnamon who tUbught hlmselt so witty as you do" said, the driiggisf in agingerly:.manner, feelingrcalled onto do -a . little,-puuntng^imself. "Well - thats' 'not .;, bad,, ether laughed.: .the . customer,v -with a syruptitlous; .glance. >;'!I .ammonia;, novice t'th^ business^-,though I
T60da a-.good t,ia,iy1-p^D?'t > .punsters :reap:'the'credit,of. -Howr
1 ;;'i,doii't^^.care >^coi^er as far,A am .'.concerned;', though , they; |.'OUght;tp-be;tLaiidled .without cloves, till thyv.would not know what is eTth ialter wlth them. Perhaps I
ia' pleasant 'time ana 
'I carraway^ It ; the:dwgg|st.
will atartv'raiing f track. hockeyy.;Swimniing and' socThe ^coaches; just dropped in. They asked' ine to come do.wn and in through:'the new plays-I made,1. hAd;b^.t6r'closc..:f.-Love-and Ivlsses " * .FREDDIE,p. S.Win ;call you Tuesday, know you wont object to my ; /ersing.the charges. "
... Wednesday.
Mr. Dubin: .The picture is too, too flattering td I think :it .was. just too sweet you to talk .to me for half hour last night. H6w can : spare the time from your many tivlties? Do.be careful that you dont become round-shouldered carrying so niucii of the weight of the world on your back.'  SincereMISS BROWN.
-.Thursday.
Dear Bob .Well, I am-on the road to fame, success. and husbandry.' This-time. Im..really .not' ..'fooling. / Im engaged.to the. most beautiful person
Iq life worth living? said 
Nntbrin MjUer as he began 
sileep on the park bench.
"Why, what's the matter, Nat? 
.9jaid a sympathetic Btndent who 
bad just come up and was shocked 
upon seeing the prostrate figure 
<5f the economist whom he was used 
to seeing In attitudes of gesticula
tion.
Dr. Millers Jaw sagged as 
aourned pitifully, TJ.ie Rede 
:ettlng me; my wife makes 
wear rubbers; my women students 
i-nop back at me. Ob, dear! And 
vlth that he pulled down bis .cap 
y.iyer his bloodshot eyes and began 
cry. The student felt. sorry: .for 
and began to pat him on the 
because he. ilked Dr.'Miller. ; 
^ "Now-, now, lie said,1 in a sooth
ing volcc, iMont take It like that. 
'fhe: Doctor reached out a groping 
hand and mourned. I do 90'want to give my students a. quiz , on 
i>londay, but they, won't'let me; oSji, .I'ro^O' .unhRppy,4;;. But .Bijd; 'i]!aeVil^nere'cam8:acTiarig4 in^thr gTlef-Btrlcken face. " ' stentdrian Like another 
flash th'e surprised,student, snapped theabove picture of Dr. Miller In the'recently described upright position with his little pocket camera that be got in his stocking at Christinas. ' There followed a tirade
SSKT
BETTER PICNICS 
We should have bigger and itter. Panics; Im tired of these :tle'.bab'y affairs., At this -momeiit a pretty squirrel sat cocklly on the upper left'rubber. .
lousy Reds
here;
covertly t
(The student smiled -  the littlehe knew the little
__ animalAnd just to'show thelomistied to be so disgruntled, that he coiild talk about subjecj
of note, believe this point grea rain, began to fall-on^tbe pathetic
raining;.iH'irndron/' -s__niining.Drip,- ih'ip;  drop,
ANNOYED
DR. NATHAN MILLER
Dr. Nathan Miller was a mighty pltirul siglvt as he-lay down on p park bench to .sleep his, troublesbeingwife made him ..w ..-- his Btudents were rebelUng. Suddenly he snapped-out of it'. AB snapped the photographer Nat snapped so 1Snappei.up with him. ' Hei
I the
ELECIM1
Spade Murderer Faces 
Death in Chair 
Next Week
RESCUE WORK HINDERED B! HEAVY FOG, 'BRAVE FEAR FELLFOR SAFETY
BULLETIN
CHATHAM, CAPE COD, March 30^(USA)~
A heavy fog settled down over Cape Cod today. Dean 
Arthur Tarbell of Carnegie was lost in the fog in a 
boat. Grave fears were felt for his safety. Shefiff 
Charles Prine, physicist, was out in a boat looking 
for the dean. The U. S. navy was out looking for 
the dean. Dean Green was at Chatham looking for 
the dean. Mrs. Tarbell is looking for the dean.
(Copyread 1936 by the U8A)
CHATHAM, CAPE COD, Mnvtih 30. Stark, 
grim tragedy descended upon the village,oi! Chatham 
on Cape Cod today as fog, the thickest in years* en
veloped the village.
It was not so bad when over fifty men compus 
liift* the fishing fleet ot this little port did not eturn. 
They limi been, drowned. But that js to be exacted of people 
who mnke it living on the sea.. Then too, it mudo flty lc$" 
outlis tor the good wives ot tJic'-flsheilolk to feed.
 But. J>ean Tnrboll WJis missing.
The guiding.hnnd of Cnvncgies lnornls, misses; m\d men.' 
lmd gotten, up cnrly this, morning, .earlier than usuai, ton ;
olook. Grabbing a -snack from-V
"treads" Rescue^
dear, it's Just as iny wife, .toldi taliily , gld IPfft? b.ut that :-
shall too much .for He collapsed. ;', <\
. Well. pal^graduation is June ]:m not - studylng, though; sin* hey ' ca^t^fluhlr.me,;:.Tm;.gett1ng o many'/offerj .too, that: r,hardly;
of them' r,; what;______________ _ _iigbt'open  con-suiting office'.ifor graduates-who 'wanE' tO imo'w .iTF.tcr g^t arib;- -rMust close now as;there is pottr' outsld?
my rubber!_____ . narrow-e:As he drew his coat about him -and tipped bis hat as a lady passed, he'remarked: 
FARMERSHAPPY ' Thisii-make the fiahners bappyi 
and-'lic-smiled htg:.well-known,..bftnljsn mile, for he is really a nice man at heart, thought the student, wfio by now was getting tired of dilly-dallying : around > with the pretty red squirrels and'the jolly professor.'
Well,'1 he said, I'd better be 
off to my' class. ."All right. said the Doctdr, 111 iust-wjnk oii a tew minutes of sleep while I'm here. Oh, yes; buy me some peanuts to feed the squir
rels if you have time."The student looked back as he wentoff, and was amused to see , the kiridly face bending over a whole family of little Red squirpatting their little foreheads, 
and talking gieritly. , .The student thought as he gamboled and'skipped along, \TI1 ;bel that's: where the Hertz-'reporters hear "about.-the Jleds,' and tbe, student chuckled softly as hi thought wVat a nice man'Dr; Miller was.
DONT FORGET TARTAN BROADCASTS:
Tuesday, April 2nd, 1:30-1:45 . - - ^^^H^r
ii/j j . . *i 9-j 7*/< .730 . - "* Tartan Quarter notir
Thur4dayt*\April 4th, V,4SJUargVTfit Varner, Violinist
the Tarlai Intrview.Humbly yours,FRED.
iva evidence: had d befen stricken as - being/; irre-__oiit ''that; -iMIss:i^irly. suing .for;.tlie )tt9"^aU.co6ting-$23.45 ^'^iatgesvhd ! b.en .re: ?&rum0Tjd-that-Mr.'
7 FLL PAGES. 7
PICTURES I
;Shpwhif. Why.^^; Carajpi^ '.Wide1 priveon Reds, Rd^cals> - arid:, ;I^seivtei:s; \is
v in Tomorrows
' TARTN
 Pacing morosely back, and forth 
In his cell in the Oakland police 
fetation, -Fritz: Corshenhauahen, 
spade murderer and bad boy of .the 
Carnegie campus, denied emphat
ically that* he was the man who 
brutally mutilated the dandellons 
on the green (?) sward 
^Carnegie. The torn bodies of the 
once proud flowers were first no-, 
-ticed by Minnie Helm, custodian of 
the dormitories, :who was 
through .iie campus after 
night tryst iu Schenley park. Miss 
who .ia_ avlover pf nature, 
horrifled to see the bodies Iy^j 
ing about on the .grass.
Detective Sergeant Vincet Parlsi, 
campus.: snooper deluxe, Men -has
tily routed from his nice warm bed 
and hurried, to the scene of tbe 
dastardly, perpetration.
SPADE IS USED 
A'spade in the hand of Fritz, the: 
German horticulturist and one time 
professional golf player, wa's 'the 
prosecutions trump card in - the 
epochal events of yesterdays trail!- 
Tho dandelion wine: makers' 
union local No. 3006, bad repre
sentatives at the trial, who in spite 
of repeated.- court demands for: 
silence, continued to heckle tlie attorneys defending Fritz. 'The wine makers claJni that If tlie spade danilellon killer goes free It will jeopardize their business.
Throughout the trial-Fritz maintained a. stolid silence. Only once dld hls stoney features relax. This be. posed, for  on exclusive - nows photograph with bis wife and. fourteen children. A ten-, der liomely.'.expression-, snuck over his..features; ,c. -
STATE SCORES
' 'The trialwas .very niuch one aided with-, the state continually scoring. .Th fact they nearly. ruined! the trial'by. hitting the gong so 
often;The judge became all rapped up 1n-hts:-gavelras:ite:'pron\ineed--tfee sentence that 'thejury:; handed down. ' Fritz, was guilty pt first decree 'murder with! a spadd' upon i dandelions'in the'school yard. Mln-'l nie. was .glad, Fritz was  ore.:  I wont :'talk,. said. ,Fritz to; a repbrter,- in; -an .-/interview .; as .; they dragged  hinioffV to; Uie ccKiler.n
To'day -Fritz is;:back, again pn' tbe campus, spading ;up .dandelions; in hiabaggy ;,trousers .:,'/  Editor's'-, note':;.Question, What 
, aii'out' tlie:trlal?. ' ;
shown above priming himself for his bitttk)-. with the elements, the lower left can' '.be seen equipment with which. Mr. Prlneand the rescue party expect , Vthe waters. Back of Mr. Prl be dimly seen the crowds.
he, icebox as heleft. he^i 
lOshif^iory^'XwhiehritfiTicrtriii^ 
end . ot a. hunky; but! is a smaH.. ?
boat) and rowed out to his sailboat. 
which for the present we shall can : ^^ 
tho Good Slilp, Lollypop-and. away .if 
he sailed off on-the briny deep.' %s
Then-came-the rog blotting out ' 
everything. -'\ - f
Dean Tarbell was in the' fog. V;;For manv-vehrs MrTarbell hnfli . .-Asr. been opb of .the leading citl^enB.-of-^;v,',-.-<t!^ Chatham: which is a little to^m' ' i^ -: noted . chleilv, for its Ashing fleet;: artists, and people who. dont  flsh:: - i and don-t :paint.-  Nows of  the- town s loss spread like wildfire.1 ^
RESCUERS 9ET OUT 
: Rescue. parties setout. Sherrif Charlie Prlne  gathered a rescue 7 party and started combingthe shore lino for the missing educaf 'lor. The U. S. navy, engaced In . . .^spring training nearby, was notified  J' and immediately ceased operation^ ' vto Join In .the search. ...Mrs. Tarbell could give no reai*: ' V son . for herhusband's, disappear? " I ance except tlie fog; The. deans , . boat had a fog honrand:a sky? ' : rocket.- High navy ofilclfelS' e^'V^:.-t prassed grave doubts that, oven-i? ; the-dean did blow, his horn ife: .1wouldn-t - do much good. Sheriff. PrtiT stated that the deaG proba," --' ,bly wouldn't use -the skyrocket a4 ' ? he was an advocate of < safe-andk.-r-( sane Fourth' of J.ulv and oppoBe4^ ' -.i
' Wheu news of the - disaste| - : S-'ieached Carnegie this - afternoon-:- "...
11left bv spec!al;plane to join -search for Dean -The Dean iseather. .
As this goes to nress the hunt la-, becoming more systematic.: -Mr& - Tarbell is of the opinion that'hef. - luiBband will return. But she -is : greatlv worried for he has. not.: taken his medicinetoday..
Just to give readers a chance find out how much they really about what. Is going on right
piled tbe following group of questions; The tst. has been tried members of the staffan average rating Is about 90 for'freshmen, 40 for seniors and 10 for faculty/members;  :
The proposed Bell and Clock
Sie., (c) A  white.'elephant ..(d)-_A myth. , vv
2r-A tissy-prietie >.is draniat (b). An, invertebrate 
Letai-la. (c)_^ji ,inebriate..(d) Pbo.%:. nielan-: Bymbol of fertility. 
3A chrett l ;C): A. bicycle bilt :fof. two (b)' A burnt , piece,f
4Carnegie's mbtt.o?isx(a) VQuqd non solum cibum .Kune :(b) Never do today.; what you can put. 6ttj until tomorrow (c) liilis matho flunkus (d)-.My, band is on my. hip. ; 5Fritz -is(a) .>iick:name fov the-presldent. .(b).; v Th; ctapus
YOUR JAMPUS ? j Chemical Dept 
Burns Up
of Chfemjstry caught .flt^e :ollowli)^.,V; a - hted' rgmentbetween'v'Dr.:-? Janiesand'a'.Tnan^whoicllmedUA iittve ben :th,. inventor ;',ofvithe;nly; dent 'prp'of ga .tanlc op', th iriatiet;^, Fire - engines .were  rusbed . to ;th,;; scene>and inenvbrs o,'.tbe;Departi-J mnti.were iiowerod hurried^,{IrfTi' baskets to the roof  n* J
Uponvinqiijry'dtterwatds-':^
_______;
thciextcati;-ofvtiiG-'-iai .........Iearn^d;that;littlfeham>a3V4ofte.^Vi
Seventeen' nyitilated ,bodies),;iw,er.^ji, pulled <;frerti:.-.i'theV: after: being-.carefully-; pasted^fe^ gether'iwerefound-.to^be^fr^hnMnSi: who'had been ,*maltIng;Vsn> Inspeoyg tlon-;tour of-the Depar:triient:.v,-;'f erial.'of tbem' re ieapettidriovy : -\To prevent sucn' j happeiiingvin; th,p \t dents :'wiU;be^.'req.uirj preservere and' tov the flxst.'andilKth\Sundays

---------------------------------------------------

F TAHNFOIF TAUTEN VONPtV APRIL l.~ 1915
SCOTTISH 
SHORTCHANGE 
 
By FLO HANSON
IT'S. ALL YOURS THIS WEEK to do with as you wish.  Aliy remarks 
you wish to direct towards your Tartan sports staff may be written 
below and sent to the dead letter office. Scotty Charles suggests that 
students use the space for playing tick-tack-toe 1n 1:30 classes.
P; S-DINGER WANTS MANAGERSPINE opportunities for selfimprovement, lucrative positions, healthful recreation. Report to Field
RISEDORF THRU, 
DRAINS TANKARD
With another season 
history, the Plaid tanked team has 
decided to go dry. The retord for 
the past year resembling.the International war. debt in opponent's :: points, the lads have decided to
basis. The Tartan all-stars, having bee'' beaten by .everything ex*, cept. th Irene Kaufman Settlement; and the W.C.T.TJ, water polo squad, figure tliat they could lose ziothlug but a little skin off the stomach crawling through a dry
 UnderQapt. Vonder Lanckep^s .superb though slightly staggering . influence, breath, and leadership.
- aptly set forth by that sterling
.V reached for a further statement'as Vhe.Ja ju9t two lengths ahead ofa ' 'Lancaster sheriff ani'J3ufsllxint ;of Hinge of three farmers* shotguns. JflB plans atthe moment are .rather - indfeflnlte':;but.:they '.^onfi^Jnclude ; jmarrIage-not if he can keep out
'^Holiday, present,leader of Car. - negie8 anchored; wonders.rjfiyrafsfeV that U\e' .prograjn lsVgolDg:*ta.;?iei : different  especially'  wi tho ii t ;  -^C.Qm&<>u trO^The r Or ab * chard; ApkleyJ to' rip the raftera -wlth-.h: audience-scaring yells. Ackley; will'  4ie. kept around the pool next;,sea* on. Just in case ot Are. HIb smile an - clear' any room in thirj'y: sfec..-onds! The. old peraonallly ; plopv < 
, , RtsedOrph, oft-saddtiii j '<mh nt . the mermen, figure that/ifi&^iiry' i'-jpool plan ought to do wonders for - Ihe' Tartan stars. It should im^trove Boutelles turns," stated the.
-, Choose your bank 
as y(iu.e<s>ould choose 
a friend 
' 9
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh,Pa.
juncture he just laughed and 
laughed because he loves tho sight 
of blood and can just visualize the 
doing a one and a half into hes
y. aLnd said, "Wooden duck,
Other swimmers of the team ommenf.ed In various ways on the ew plan. I dont care what they o, said Charles, ns Ion*;, as we. dont have to train. When asked pinion Mr. Hapmerschmidt ignored all but the photographer he said, Im one of the Jones Smith. Derdeyn gloated
EXTRA BUTTER FOR
glad tidings that tbe boys ready out doing 'or 'dying for dear old Carnegie. Dr. 'William L. Marks,
feeling inspired.. 1 like butter t AI Irwin is somewhat skeptical, however. He holds that too much luxury Isnt good for tbe boys.
Tornado Breath. Vorderburg, when asked to express his idea on the subject, spoke as follows: I aint seen nuttin so good in tree years. A committee, composed oi some of the better-known athletes, has been appointed , to thank the athletic cpuncil. With Frank Goon Sanford as chairman, tbe committee should get places. Others
Turton). Lehman. Toothless" (Fa?
liaid, alias' "Fire Chief") Kelly, "Halo -Challinor, \&nd "Jumpy Bowser. Halo, when asked how he felt'obout the whole ailalr, was rather nlry In his remarks.' He said, "This aint so much. Where. I come from wo even have s.uccotash and
i't in favor of high-fallutin: notions, but would let -the other guys enjoy the. stuff.
When the boys, led by the 'tier bonalr "Goon," go to thank the uncjl, Mr. Kelly willspokesman. It is expected tt he
cornerstone at the McKeesport crematory, when he nonchalantly remarked to the boys of the press, "And then, boys, some days I dont even think its worth while getttn
Other comments were significant
We Are Noi
. When, we say that, last Friday, at the Style Show, you 
heard the ............  \ 
New Dance 
Band That
-------Has Everything
Popular! Chess Walters*
Radi Orchestra
THE band that will make your fraternity 
or sorority SPRING FORMAL a success, with:
--- NEWER, SMOOTHER MELODIES
- . REFINED APPEARANCE AND CONDUCT
To assure an open date, immediately phone or write:
WM. R. BUHLLEhigh 4369 
1458 Grandin Avenue 
Pittsburgh (16), Pa.
HALFBRTY SEES 
BRIGHT SEASON
CHUBBY OVEREND, genial kick of >the Scotch A. A., ca puffs his Durham after astonishing hie associates with the statement
. .All. patrons of the FINER arts, 
and' especially the extra special 
finer Art of anesthetic dancing, 
now have a very unusual opportilnity of watching ^hlg;hl)i;,.optimis
tic Wlataguy Halferty'^and bis tal
ented .iroup of twlrps tnreheareal. Any day now at tie; beautiful outdoor stomplng-ground in'the MushbalUFIeid Annex,i: interested fans (nothing to dowitlf-/Sally Rand) may,view this inane^.putQt o interpreters InterpretLng.'at'no extra charge.
Premier Danseuses.;i (plural) 'Frankle-and-Johnnie Glolma and Norm.-; "Songbird.v^iirown are struggling under the terrific tutelage of their terrible taxmaster, and from, the looks ofr things and such (no,Wf.dont get the. wrong meaning) they are grounding out in great shape, or so "Greatboys-working-hard Halferty quotes 
himself as. saying. If ballet slip
pers can only bo found to fit Lily 
Pons Browns dainty size-15-madeto-order horizontals,'he may. be 
able to perk up enough to go on 
for the first performance which will be given on the 13th of April at tbe Eyerene Coughman vSettlell, under the auspices of tho Womens Home Economics Club, for the benefit of undernourished teetolaterp, seats in the^second balcony free to anybody who'll take them. ,
Appearing with Star-on-hisdressing-room1 Frankie .will bo a chorus of 12-BEAUTIFUL BUXUM BLIMPS12, if enough guys come out before that time. The chorus will iuclude such churmfug figures'(French for faces)
Shows Em How
--3PRESS SCRIBES
As the result of the selfishlumerous. Tartan colun
of the copies ot the Ta? although the latter are nla^i the schools halls for the bens* of the student body in general * MTnpaign has been started to ling
Now, we sports scribes woyy 
feimply die if we didnt have 
weekly allotment, or Tarlana 
send home and to keep (or memory books, so we voice a
I MILDNESS!-Every woml'gii preferaa milder cigarette. says Miaa gEfe
tm asarette I've evet found that is , fgIU mildand pleasing fl> your throat.- 
 'JL
i" HEALTHY 
T  NERVES I|J
r  J

---------------------------------------------------

NIGHT SCHOOL RUM RING SMASHED
State And City Officers 
Seize Night Students 
In Raid On Joint
FACULTY MEMBERS 
FOUND ON PREMISE
prominent Council Members 
Arrested.As Owners Of 
The Establishment .
A college rum ring and'? gambling 
joint was smashed last veek in a 
raid Staged by State and City po
lice at Bar-B-Q located on Saw Mill 
nun boulevard,. Police arrested 
an Engineering and an Industriels, 
iiudent'as the confessed owners of the dive. They were Identified by their fingerprints and from police records as Big Time Vensel. and Babv Face Blochinger, ring-leaders of 'this college syndicate. Th hangout was found to be frequented ijy the Night School faculty and
Sll?Csem9 that Baby Face had cently resigned from Night Ste .lent Council so that, he might deo?e more of his time to. the rum running business. After three bouvs of grilling. Big Time Vensel, well known to the underworld, admitted that he has recently purchnsed a new boat to .be used in 
ihe illicit business. The ring has had plenty of protection because it was backed by the politiciansis believed that the police \----tipped off by Scarface Al Lois, for. mer king of the underworld. 
STUDENTS IN RAID 
At Ibe time of the Taitl there ..... T about thirty-live Carnegie Tech students in the place,. The students were seated around the table, in groups, and on several tables oHicers found gallojn jugs of sunshine. Charlie Bozo" Roup wad standing heside a large, roulette wheel rakIofT in tho dough. Arturio Grlnv mlo was managing the drink con cession and was caught redhanded dealing out orange juice and spiice of nennermint.Dai VcKelway and A. W. Tarbell were caught when theytried to escape through a trap door. Lerty White an Art S'ndent, was arrested for distributing lottery tickets 
bL he wouldnt talk.Police found Billiard Ball Noiget hiding in a cupboard. He has been hunted by local officers for the iiast six months; in connection-with 
the knifing of an editor oE a local newspaper. Mr. Noiget'. will / be formnUv charged with murder at the next regular session of Council.Among the'others arrested in connection with the raid were: _R. W Grahamskl, Beer, Baron of Me Keea Rocks, C.'.E. Blockineer (brother of  Baby Face). Billy Graut, E. W.' DrenaenCwhoown? the netny machina, concession).
Aa a result of th pUblldty'gleL Carnegie Tech the facility . hB promised to roimburse the gansters 
for their efforts. v . DUdKY WUCKV'iS N6WAWLE>:, 
At thfs affair, a very ..spectacular game of "Ducky, Ducky,.. Where's 
my Wucky" wad introduced or Eddie. snubblns understudy  boy; what a game what a guyf;what a dnckln the boys got.. This novel form of entertainment brought to the front the cave man . instinct! Yea bo! They caved In in all dl 
Tsctions.A big part of the evening had been devoted to a little Germau band, comnosed of some of county s worst public enemies. Director Smeltz Cox. Tromboner  Heine Stearns, Hans (Tuba) Ihrlg.vand Drummer Karl, Von Schlossnagel were among those who managed lo escape. Das war sehr s.chlecht. Die Polizel wlllen sie sogloich flnden. .It was brought out at the police station that this band, bad a tremendous effect on the morals or ihe students. Olo Tangle Fqot the bc-trnyer, turned states, evidence, and described in detail the antics of Enpy the hook and eye man," . 'Credits'' Bright, ''<5ow2?ate Mixture 1-2-3 Daniels, Sb'ort Cir out Works/, and many , others
j SQUIRREL HILL 
j BARBER SHOP
I 5623 FORBES STREET
This Article Too 
Shajdy to Print
Sally Gland, Famous Dancer, 
To Reform at Eng. Banquet
Engineering Officers Confess To Change In Plans; 
Price To Be Increased To, Defray Small Goat; > 
Fried Onions And Spinach To Be' Served
Technocratic Professors 
Reserve Front Row 
To View Dance
Tis Said
THAT there will not be school, for the next two we because all th Profs have gout Stomach that.THAT Herb Stone wishes
THAT Ed Blochinger is to be exempt from his exams, because of'Hjver-work.THAT "Propeilors Blaldsdale is sure golnq to be up In the air next week. . Yeal hes going to flp to. California and
THAT' although 1 write this Thursday, the dance Is Saturday and probably will be a past suewill have the
THAT Prof. Estep, the gov-mentrshlp enthusiast,Dlrectoresemo of the T. V. A.THAT\ Mechanics" Stoker nd little Ferguson were seen omping too and frocht on the ampus greens In a .new game; intltled Buck, Buck, how many - fingers'up?" 'THAT If you read thle-eol:nn youre Jusl . trained today.'
first.THAT the engineers have changed their, minds ..and have .'decided, to. Invite, the -ladles-to the banquet. Tickets can be ~puci%a>ed frorrutk&^fflo^i'Pikf-A !. THAT beed will bfc so|d af ali ; future affairs . hftld Ir* Thlstla-i -Hall.. C* oy~u 
RUBBERSLIDE RULE
NOVEL DOOR PRIZE
Event Will Bring To A Close 
A Dippy Social Program 
Of Engineers
The officers of the Night Colleg< of Engineering have finally com< of their shell and disclosed the Banquet plans. They have decided that frankness and not secrecy is bestplan to advance interest their' affair.
To begin with they admit that, the price of the dollar fifty is euhigh for this banquet. Those attending are now assured only of a line two dollar meal, dollars worth of souveniers a jr-show worlh'at least two fifty any. Cabaret. . Such a monetary
but speeches by the olSlcers and Adminlstration.arealwaysso bad that etudents should bepald dollars to listen to* them. ..ThiiB the sw'value of th anqnet Is only ie dollar instead of one dollar fifty s charged. . - 'For this one-flfty you will get a meal fit for a king (of a chain gang), But who goes to a banquet to eat y way? We want entertainment. The Engineering oITlcors absolutely promise the appearance of Lobrendition of that specialty dance and .song' called, Why is a nice juicy. Hamburger with ICqtcliup mustard and pickle?* She will be accompanied at the piano by Rubitoff, the well-known varnish re er. Andah! Ha!thatsthe beginning folks, stick around and see the! pan and fubble dancer, the sword swallower, the red hot <;horus. . and the. ice cold Chaperons. Youll love it.; .Now -for the sad part of the whole'affairthe-men In charge.The committee .in charge, wellknown.among entertainment crazed students on., the campus, consists
Perkins and ' -lend .his ...collegians.! through their calisthenics as only Lft-pre^elidouslxbpy ^sen^iWUMg, 1 JbstlerNolgot ^reluctantlyreviewed: niany balletgroups before r~ c^ptirig b'rf" -Fuzrv" Dfoinlees
Grad News
Exams Will Now 
Be Abolished
Dean Green Endorses Th Us
Of Chewing Gum By Students
Faculty Members To Present 
Spectaoul&r Floor Show
recent Combined meeting ot 
the Administration and Faculty it 
yoted.to abolish examinations. 
Dr. lhrls. who  presided at the 
testing, outilned the proposal ot 
substituting a diuner and floor 
In place of the unnecessary 
nation's.' The resolution re' f apvveak
*ed the tests placed betr
.rled .sick while the. students ar.9und.in comparative  ease, professovs - finally ' admitted that they., were imposing on the
The" casb for. the show chosen from members, of the facultyand only those who haye not shown ability to act in the class rooms were' chosen. The leads were assigned to Deans Green and Tarbell who will give-asong and
After little consideration Dal. McKclway. was chosen to perform the well known .Fan Dance. Coach Howard Hamster will be the fea: tured crooner, and blues singer.
' Fred: J. Evans the: well kno^n designer will have charge of the tuines. All costumes designed by Mr. Evans wlll be statically determinate. Mr. .Schoovizer has been assigned the .task of enllglitlng the
A letter has been received' fvoin I 
Oscar Scbmnltz, class of 1917. Ho| 
informs us that during the. paqtl 
year lio has made great prQgrpsd tSil 
the breeding of pigs in'hip mlni&-| 
iur&plg-stles back on thejvf&rm. He 
explains'that he puts glasses with 
convex .ienses on the plgs and p.u^s 
a miniature sty before t^em, there
fore'by saving -both' 'spaced anti' money. Mr. Schmaltz majored ;ln psychology at Carnegie. <  V,
Word comes from Podnnk that Amos Farming (alias Henry the Dope, says this.alumni:has pulled his'biggest job. He has succeeded in seducing the 'lollypop'manufacturers'to' pay .protection. ?rhe.saTe of lollypops has doubled inthe last
will more tuan dbh* bl th'' selllg; price. . The Elam wiBhPs vou siKi'onR Amos majored n In ud rimili  y
In a.n'btice appearlug on the bul
letin boards .. on andabout the 
campus, Dean Green wholehearted* 
ly .endorses the chewing of gum by 
the students. AThile the dean has 
particular preference as to the 
brand of gum most suitable to tho 
faculty -she did mention bubble 
gum.
To' quote Miss Green, .I strongly 
ge and recommend the. use of 
gum chewing both in classes and
The student should.. cult!'..... the habit of chewing gum atall social functions and particularly at dances because in addition to removing halitosis and liquor breath it also aids the rhythm of the dancer?. It adds both charm and poise to tlie lndlos.
In using bubble gum, tbe students .. i given something to bldw about, thereby developing tho lungs. This applies particularly to those  students who are shy and backward or who may havo an inferiority complex. By using gum .they
> the backward tendenoy.
.I also recommend llmt studentB use bubble gum. to dvercome the nervousness - and embarrasstneht due to stammering. If said 4a dents would continually, carry . wad. in their mouths, they would llnd It very, convenient, and much' less embarrassing when unable to finish a word to blow a few bubblesuntil able.to continue th conversation. If the person to whom they were talking is also chewing gum,be started to
performance R. L. Lepper will direct the orchstrain which A, J. Kostollow wiil givo a harp solo.
NOTICE TO 
LOAFERS
All students not Interestod 
in earning needle points to
wards a tin motel, aro ro* 
quested to'report in the sub* 
basement of ThiBtle Hall 
sometime in the past. Beds 
will be furnished upou re
quest. The purpose of this 
meeting  will be to undocor* 
ate for the coming crawl 
which wlli be held last year.
Any Btudent not having 
transportaMon will. be sup
plied with a horse  now 
dont all . moke trouble for yourselves. Sluce this is the last opportunity to earn points, workers are urged no.t to'attend as a bettor opportunity will be pvosonted ip the future. This affords stu* - dents a chance to catch up on sloep which Is lost lu tho class vooni from the interruptions of tho iirofessors.
Moratorium Seen 
As Aid For 
Flunkers
By this declaration all ' .students : who received grades below D uiay have their grades raised by applying to the heads of the various do* partments. Applications must bo 
(Continued on Page Eight.).
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
Page edited by Night School students of Carnegie Institute of Tech* nology. All views or opinions oxpressod In tho editorial column are . not neceseurlly endorsed by the.Eldltovlal Board of the Day School - Staff.editor
Shorty Fues  ,
Staff Lefty Cooklo Sweet William ContributorsGen Scrubavlch Wlncholl,. Jr.Rio Rita J. RamseyDodo Fireman The TwinsBeaks Charter Wholewheat
Botel Webster Hall
... Coffee Shop ...
NOW OPEN 24 HOURS
Dancing Every Saturday 
BUZZY KOUNTZ and His Orchestra
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Go.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
bps WkQkto 
Iktd
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER. FEDERAL 
, RESERVE SYSTEM
m UUA
Samern
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, atl makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented, re?" paired. $3.00 'one . month', $10.00 five months. ' - 
American Writing 
Machine Company801. LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5433 See our School reprsentative 
DICK HAMMOND
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor. Street
LARGEST SBUiCnONO PORTABLE AMP. l STANDASD-SlZEb '-> .
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00Ubcral-TVM . . . Fm Trid . RENT A TTPEWBITERnrt n^^tont^.ReaUI: Appli ~
PORT PITT
r'sMnYsn wWl644 LIBERTY AVENUS
- to anxiety  I bring relief
- to distress----I bring courage
- to achievement - - I bring content
- to loneliness - - I bring companionship
LUCKIES USE ONLY THE CENTER LEAVES . . . CENTER LEAVES GIVE YOU THE MILDEST SMOKE
ill

---------------------------------------------------

: THE'CAHWEGIE'TAKTAJr.~ MONDAT, ATRTL I; 1935
BE A CARNEGIE ^BOOSTER
" To YourFriends At Other Universities ;
MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1935
a Publishing <
The Red Menace
A . Bed Shadow Threatens To Envelope All In Its 
Fiery Tentacles
A reu shadow is hovering over, threatens to tangle all in its fiery tentacles. Students BE. WARE.. Remember what the founders of our country and of our constitution had in mind when they drew up the rules under which this great country of ours was to grow. What would Washington think if he saw a great pink mist hanging around the campus? What would Lincoln say? What would your mother sav? (Offhand I would say that .the mills were running againbut then your mother probably doesnt know about the nulls and it's a mighty poor sport who would'spoil the fun of somebody's mother).
The Yellow Peril
Every Sane Citizen Must Aid In Abetting This 
Creeping Terror Of The Orient
America is fraught on every side with the grovest of dangers and the gravest of these\is the Yellow Peril that is creeping m from the Orient and spoiling our potato crops. It is up to every sane and sensible citizen to support 100 per cent the Hertz papers in their campaign to rid America of this Kconrge. v . The Hertz pap'ers are the most powerful and patriotic.force in the United States today. _They are dedicated to a creed of fundamental American-.
They are solidly aligned against Communism, Bolshevism, Bnddism and the Philadelphia Red Socks.
Lilly Livered Borers
Patriots Must Beware Of Those Who Burrey From 
Within; Stamp Out This Menace!
Boring from within, gnawing at the very intestines of , our .government, are.those who would.see the constitutional and ^ democratic government established by our ancestors 1 over> thrown . ., Patriotic citizens. BEWARE. Par worse than any , plague. :Bfar. wol'se than any pestilence is a woim .that burrows from t^witfcin,' leaving behind it a trail of slime and corruption. sTlte /very foundations upon which we rest are at stake. The very steaks from which we were ground are in danger..We must gird ourselves for the fray. r WE MUST BE PREPARED..v -i ,We.must wipe from this campus every. trace of these cunning, creatures. We must trample these dissenters in the muck and slime m which they breed. We cannot be caught without our flit guns when these germs of communism :bc'gih :their work, of destruction. - -. .. , :When George Washington; that immortal of immortals, ..spoken to his arihy .at the time of that almost disastrous uprising, the Whisky Rebellion, he^said:' .^Beware of Russian Dressing and Livcrwuxst! Pudding.; How can we keep1 America;a land of the free when our citizens insist on drinking French wanes and eating Liverwurst? We must be'on our guard. r  rSo in calling on every PATRIOTIC citizen we feel that we : are .only doing-our duty as protectors of FUNDAMENTAL. AMERICANISM. \ . ,
MenaceIn World
Of Science
Psychology Department 
,Astonishes World . 
With Discovery
Tbe accompanying proofs were 
printed last; week by the Psychol
ogy Department, under tbe direc 
tion of Prof. Swaffer, wbo bag con
duced an ,exteDaive: research in 
tbe jleld of inherited and uninherlted traits. Reading from left 
to right, first row: first generation, 
second generation*, third genera-, 
tion; second row: fourth genera* 
tjon,. fifth generation; ehcth gen
eration; third row: seventh gen
eration. eighth generation and ninth 
generation.
The reader will note/' says the 
famed professor, "tbat the changes 
become more marked as each 
generation evolves. Take for in
stance the fifth generation (in the middle), the dominant trait, which Is by far Ibe most aggressive, appears to a very marked exten,t. In dealing with papa and mamma butterflies of the checkered and flowered calico variety (Dr. Swaffer often talks funny (funny-peculiar,
Costu:marked radical tendenci
The eminent psychologist
He said, You've gotta be as nice s you can now like generation No. , or else". The students caught n immediately, they were so mart; just wait until you gee ^ho's in the class] Every student n the class copied tbe varied diagram shown above, but thore rose great deal of consternation, witbthe class when Prof. Swaffer said they would have to be able reproduce the diagram in the
k0
W,
4jj|g!
anted to be In Ohio all the time, because be bad just fixed up something new), "indeed, it will be very difficult.'Professor SwafTer looked In the apparent disoutstandiog folks should worry about a small matter of hereditary recessive and dominating traits; you have them,
Gosemary Raentzer look6d surprised because she didnt think she had them. So Bhe put on her best ten-pouring attitude and remarked,
butterflies; I lodk lovely in my gossamer butterfly costume that I wear in the W. S. O. ballet." At this Dred Fugan snickered; he is the best little snickerer.At this point, Prof. SwafTer, who is very emotional and inefficient, sought for his handkerchief, set his wmch on the desk nnd, rusher! into the ball In hysterics. Dr. Sax McHeon met him in the hall, and when Dr. Swaffer told him what had happened, he fell Into hysteiwfully funny; the bego.n to laugh and
pretty a
laughing and wrinkling hiB [0r^ head too, because the Psychology department always does Uiines together. . es
The class left after they had as sidiously copied the diagram, vi,iCh has been issued exclusively for this issue of-the Tartan, became ? 'as the April Pool and everylion, being a little risque  omitted for obvlou^ reasons.
University of Mad.iuk (ABCD) Students here announced ladav that since the rainy season wu setting in they would no longer attend classes in their, customary cummerbunds but would don punJabs and jabberodds. This is the first lime in years that tho 4yeu dents of this University have dared take such a stand..
It is believed' that the whole trouble is not really the rainv Reason at all. but merely the fact that cosmic radiation from tbe bathosphere is penetrating through the many layers of atmosphere to cause an excess of vltaniin A In the milk which'is In turn causing a decrease in the ntimber of cases of rickett6. . '
SRIGHTSMF
ANNUAL DINNER 
Dr. Thomas W. Graham, dean df the Graduate School of Theology a Oberlln College will be the princ pal speaker at the annual Cbristia Association dinner on Saturda] April 6 at the Carnegie Inn.
TECH NITE
Both, the . Men's and Womens Glee Clbs ;ae well'as-the Kiltie band will be present at Tech Nlte at'the Sixth  Pj-esbyterian Church at the corner of Forbes land Murray, Sunday, prll7.Representative Clyde Kelly will
Hieres sometliing about a Chesterfield
UL rei one tiling especially like about nevez cjet little ctttmli o^ tvla.ee hi nty mouth
C-'lieitecJjlelJlieutltely ailie jjcom. the ~Jj&ct  the toiacco doesn't spill out an d that
that it's a nillJtet cl^atette_ a.nJL aJltts lot to mijpit
heati a munlez o^ people say the same thin^ ... notice
 .. 'Pl/hlle smoking ClliedctjjlelJt smoi
easute o smoking Them, 
mote an<l mote or hu i(tleitds
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
dents of Carnegie Institute of TechjaBgjpij
\^6
CP^
'JL
ulalMs
