Talks of Environment 
Margaret Mead In Pgh.
Grade/H C NE H&SS Options Set 
"Will Raise Interest" Says MDC Pres
John Tate
Anthropologist Margaret Mead held a 
brief news conference Wednesday on the 
topic Environment for Creativity. In her 
opening remarks she pointed out that most 
responsible observers see massive difficul
ties confronting mankind on a worldwide 
scale, with consequences possibly as great 
as an end to all life on earth. The 1950s 
science fiction myths about hiding from 
fallout in Peruvian mountain valleys or co
lonizing the moon must be dispensed with, 
since no matter where one goes on the 
earth our poisoned air will follow, and the 
only life support system for men on the 
Moon is the earth. DDT has been found 
even in the deepest parts of the ocean, 
carried there by winds and currents, so 
theres no place to hide.
As a result, she suggested that we re
quire creative minds capable of envisioning 
total solutions to our full scale problems. 
In particular she advocates changes in the 
cultural patterns that limit the creativity of 
all members of society. She singled out one 
track educational systems designed to be 
stultifying, disrespect of children by adults,
Mike Hill
An increase in resident interest and par
ticipation will be the major objective for 
MDC in 1972, according to new president 
Barry HAllman. Said Hallman, As it 
stands now, there just arent enough inter
ested people. 1 hope we can generate enough concern towards MDC to attract a 
large involvement in the representative elections next semester. If we have a strong 
representative body, this will create a nu
cleus around which we can expand, and 
increase in function. He added that there 
will be a lot of openings for the September 
elections.
If MDC is ever to become a major organ
ization on campus, this could be the year; 
Hallman expresses confidence in his sup
porting staff, which includes VP Bob Linn, 
Treasurer Lee Fleishner, and Secretary 
Mike ChappieSince they took office in 
February, the new council has already ini
tiated 24-hour parietal hours for the 
dorms, (the whole idea of which was pilot
ed by Hallman when he was chairman of 
the MDC-WDC joint staff) and initiated 
the proposal for extended undergraduate 
co-ed housing. By next year they plan to 
install color TVs in all of the dorms that 
dont already have them. Also, the MDC 
has formed a committee to evaluate the 
present Housing Contract, including the re
strictions on appliances, and the authoriza
tion of Security to enter rooms.
Id have to say things are picking up a 
little now, continued Hallman, who himsfef has worked on the Exec. Board for
Anthropologist Margaret Mead
lack of honesty in family relations, and 
bottle feeding of infants without sufficient 
physical contact with other people as injur
ious to the creative growth of children. She 
said that young people would have more 
confidence in their elders if those in charge 
of planning could so much as learn to 
count.
continued page 14
MDC, and as Chairman of the Committee 
of Counselor selection, asst. Chairman of 
Food Service Committee, MDC representa
tive to Food Service, Publicity CHairman, 
and MDC representative to Womens Dorm 
Council. This is the first time well have a 
really good booth, and were entering two 
buggies in this years Sweepstakes.
In a more recent election, Marty Usberger was voted president of this years Wom
ens Dorm COuncil. The remaining officers 
include VP Linda Arnold, Second VP Carol 
Nemetz, Secretary Chris Loges, and Treas
urer Elsbeth Wichsel.
Students On 
College Boards
Governor Milton J. Shapp has nomin
ated 14 students to serve on the Boards of 
Trustees of Pennsylvanias state colleges 
and Indiana University.
At a news conference in Harrisburg, 
Shapp made the announcement of the nine 
men and five women to fill vacancies on 
the boards. The student nominees are sub
ject to confirmation by the State Senate.
During my campaign for Governor, I 
visited and spoke before student groups at 
a number of campuses in the state, Shapp 
said. At that time, I promised that I 
would do everything I could to see that 
students were put on boards of trustees of 
our higher education facilities. Last No
vember I appointed students to the boards 
continued page 14
On April 12 the H&SS College Council 
met again and completed, after a month of 
hot deliberations, a new grading package 
for the college.
Effective immediately, for the present 
semester, all H&SS students may elect eith
er Honors-Credit-No entry or A,B,C,D,R,
Ira Picker 
Made AB Head 
For Next Year
The executive board of the Activits 
Board has been established for the 1972 - 
1973 school year. Its members are Ira Picher - Director of AB, Leslie Toth - Chair
man of Concerts, Tom Lee - Chairman of 
Lectures, Tom Janicki - Chairman of Films, 
and AB Treasurer, Bob Kleinman - Chair
man of TGIF, and Sue Breckwoldt - Secre
tary of AB.
Presently, fall programming is being 
worked out with the films committee final
izing their 14 week schedule. A new AB 
programming policy which will go into ef
fect in the fall is that there will be a major 
AB event every weekend whether it be a 
concert, lecture, special film or other 
event. Also a new idea in concert program
ming will be put into effect. The fall semes
ter will be programmed so that there will 
be three off-campus pay concerts featuring 
larger name groups and three on-campus 
free concerts featuring smaller name, less 
expensive attractions. Tentatively sche
duled for off-campus concerts are the 
Jaques Loussier Trio for November 11th 
and the Mark-Almond Band for Home
coming, October 21st. These bookings, 
however, are subject to change.
Physicist Yang/ 
Nobel Laureate 
To Speak At CMU
Nobel prize winning physicist C.N. Yang 
of the State University of New York at 
Stony Brook is visiting Pittsburgh as a Buhl 
lecturer on Theoretical Physics.
Professor Yang is one of the leading 
figures in current theoretical physics and 
has made contributions of major import
ance to the physics of fundamental part
icles and to statistical mechanics.
During his stay. Professor Yang wull 
give a series of talks at Carnegie Mellon. On 
Wednesday, April 19 at 2:30 there will be a 
seminar on the Theory of Gauge Fields 
in Science Hall 7500. On Thursday at 3:30 
in Doherty Hall 2210 there will be a semin
ar on Fluctuations and Correlations in 
Multiparticle Production at High Energies.
Dr. Yang will also give a talk for general 
audiences on Wednesday evening, 8:30 in 
the Mellon Institute Auditorium. The topic 
will be Impressions of the Peoples Re
public of China.
"Will Raise Interest"
Says MDC President
for each course.
Pending final approval, beginning in the 
fall, there will be a course by course option 
of credit-no entry or A,B,C,D,R in all elec
tives and core requirements. Grades will be 
required in all major subjects, but the de
partments may grant variances. At no time 
will there be retroactive grades (changing 
old grades from one system to another.)
Freshmen will be on credit-no entry for 
their first semester, but may appeal for 
grades in that period. They will enter the 
mainstream plan in the second semester.
The present written evaluation system 
will continue for all courses and both grad
ing schemes. Final disposition of QPAs 
and class ranking was put off due to con
fusion over the registrars computers capa
bilities.
The Councils final meeting of the year 
will be on April 26.
Orville Winsand 
Appointed Head 
Of P&S Dept.
Orville M. Winsand, acting head of the 
Department of Painting and Sculpture at 
Carnegie Mellon University has been ap
pointed head of the department.
Dr. Winsand, professor of painting and 
sculpture has been acting department head 
since last September and assumed his new 
title this month.
Professor Winsand joined the CMU fa
culty in 1961 as an associate professor in 
art education and has subsequently held 
positions as assistant head of the depart
ment of painting, design and sculpture, 
professor of art education, and professor of 
fine arts in the Carnegie Education Center.
Among his many professional activities 
he has been director of Project Fine Arts, a 
curriculum research project sponsored by 
the U.S. Office of Education; a member of 
the Pennsylvania Advisory Committee on 
Education; and a consultant for the various 
public school systems, as well as the Uni
versity of Kentucky.
In addition to writing and speaking on 
fine arts and the fine arts curriculum, Pro
fessor Winsand has exhibited at the Univer
sity of Wisconsin, CMU and the Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Winsand previously taught art in the 
Wisconsin public schools, 1949-58 and at 
the University of Wisconsin, 1960-61.
He studies at the Colorado School of 
Mines and the University of Wisconsin, 
earning at the latter his B.S. and M.S. degreees in art education and a PhD in educa 
tion and art.
He is a member of the Pennsylvania Art 
Education Association, the National Art 
Education Association, the Eastern Art 
Association, the National Conference on 
the Arts in Education, and Phi Delta 
Kappa.
Carnival News On Pg. 7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972
editors note
Readers of the TARTAN in recent months might well conclude that 
CMU is dominated by the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, and 
that the issues of feminism are hotly debated by the majority of the 
campus. Such conclusions would be erroneous.
Although there are indeed significant and major problems in H&SS 
(which perhaps might better be named H vs. SS) and although the 
problems of women are important and do deserve to be a major concern 
to the campus (and as such will continue to receive extensive TARTAN 
coverage), the fact remains that the vast majority of the CMU community 
is not in H&SS and is not female, and is not regularly appearing in the 
TARTAN.
There are several very obvious surface reasons for this situation. The 
majority of those inclined to write for the newspaper will be humanities 
students who are naturally inclined to report on topics dose to them 
(particularly in a college lacking a journalism curriculum). The arts, 
business, and science/technology people are not generally interested in 
working for a newspaper. Hence we have the aforementioned slanting.
Since no one is really complaining of any slight, this seems at first 
glance to be a problem only to an editor's oversensitive conscience. But 
the Puritan lurking within is absolved, for a larger question looms behind 
this superficial one.
The various segments of this community are diverse, isolated, and 
even fiercely parochial, and as such CM U reproduces in a microcosm the 
industrialized society of today. Just as the areas of specialization in 
society today do not and perhaps cannot communicate, so it is at CM U. 
Intercourse between our major units (CIT, CFA, GSIA, H&SS), and 
sometimes even their subunits, is very rare and growing steadily more so. 
They are even physically separate, and this situation also grows worse as 
the performing arts head toward WQED and CIT and MIS abandon Hunt 
Library.
The most serious gap is that between the technological people and 
everyone else. This lack of communication, for which no one group is 
totally to blame, largely contributes to the phenomenon that many people 
in society feel that their destiny is controlled by small numbers of 
technocrats whom no one can fathom, much less call into account. They 
feel themselves hurtling helplessly into a surreal cybernetized tomorrow 
dictated by a laboratory coated oligarchy.
Man today finds his many facets sealed and inviolate in compart
ments marked art,  science,  humanism.  Only the university is 
capable of reversing this trend.
Everything that rises must converge, and so it is with the threads of 
this editorial. More communication, and, hopefully, more understanding 
must happen among the different sects at CMU. In a humble way a 
newspaper can be one vehicle for achieving that, through news reporting, 
commentary, interpretation, and dialogue.
Is anyone interested in that?
Old business: As preparations go on full blast for Spring Carnival at 
CMU, the war in Southeast Asia continues to continue.
Vietnamization and troop wothdrawal are and have always been a He, 
for the massive U.S. firepower that is the mainstay of the corrupt Thieu 
regime is not reduced. Indeed, in recent days our aerial strength (number 
of planes) has jumped 56%.
A letter from U.S. Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska, just received in this 
office, states that:
 The U.S. air war over Indochina has escalated steadily during the past 
several months, in direct contradiction of President Nixons public 
assertions that the war continues to wind down ... Computer 
technology...aircraft and artillery are creating a U.S. destructive 
presence...foryears to come. 
A massive demonstration is planned for New York on April 22. For the 
political football POWs, for 100,000 Americans remaining, for a land and 
a people horribly scarred for at least a generation to come, for sanity - 
PROTEST!
Steve Jurman
Letters:
Eclitor-in-Chief......................Steve Jurman
News Editor...............................Jeff Ganek
Politics........................................Jim Slivka
Features Editor.....................Judy Narosny
Sports Editor.............................Jim Brogan
Business Manager......................Alice Bright
Entertainment Editors ....Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
Entertainment Staff............Stephen Hamm
Janet Glassman, Walter Koehler 
Terence Pa Iso
News Staff .John Agatston, Anne Friedman 
Mina Gerall, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stern 
Cliff Stevens, Robin Reiter, Mike Hill
Features Staff.......Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Tom Davis
Editor: v,
The overwhelming majority of the 
American people want an immediate end 
to the war in Southeast Asia. Recent polls 
show that 65% of the population considers 
the war to be morally wrong.
Resistance to the war continues to rise 
as millions of workers are thrown on 
unemployment rolls and Vietnam veterans 
remain jobless. The wage freeze proves that 
the Nixon Administration is trying to force 
the nations workers to bear the economic 
burden to the continuing war. The fight to 
end the war is clearly an essential part of 
the fight to check inflation, for full 
employment and for a guaranteed adequate 
income for every American.
The nations depressed economy starves 
schools, hospitals and welfare programs, 
and places the heaviest burdens on 
minorities, especially Black, Puerto Rican 
and Chicano youth. The cost of the war 
precludes adequate housing and decent 
standards of living for all.
Yet the destruction goes on.
55,000 GIs dead. 302,000 wounded and 
the figures rise daily.
More than 1,500,000 Indochinese killed 
and 8,000,000 homeless whilsaturation 
bombing continues at a rate unprecedented 
in history. And one fifth of Vietnam lies 
desolate from chemical defoliants which 
have caused sharp increases in still births 
and genetic deformities. Moreover, as 
Nixon withdraws troops from Vietnam he 
has stepped up the automated air war over 
Southeast Asia. The monthly civilian 
casualty toll under President Johnson was
95,000, under Nixon it is 130,000.
The Nixon Administrations reaction to 
new proposals in Paris demonstrates the 
governments continued intention to win a 
militrary victory. The stalemated Paris 
talks prove that the American people must 
mobilize to demand an end to the war 
now. GIs and POWs can come home now 
if Nixon will yield to the no longer silent 
majoritys demand for immediate 
withdrawal.
In this election year, most of the 
Presidential candidates seem to favor an 
end to the war. Many of us will be working 
for the election of one or another of these 
candidates. At the same time, we feel that 
it is also necessary to maintain 
independent, non partisan pressure for a 
toal American withdrawal from Southeast 
Asia.
Pn April 22, peaceful, legal and massive 
demonstrations against the war will take 
place in New York City and Los ANgeles. 
Join with us to make this mobilization as 
large and effective as possible. Sign up 
sheet, transportation informationand the 
route of the march are at the Y office, 
Skibo 57.
Susan Christian 
Director, YWCA
Sports Staff............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan, Jim Powers 
Jon Swierzewski, Jude Heller
Photography Staff...................Elliot Arons
Ed Levine, Jay Caras
Copy Staff..............................Leslie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising............................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Telephone (412) 682-4557
Editor:
Being in need of a summer job and also 
unaware of all the hubbub about 
discriminatory hiring practices, I went to 
Pittsburgh Brewing Company last 
Wednesday to put in an application. I 
thought it strange that the secretary 
handed me an envelope with my 
application and asked that I mail it in. I 
asked if it were particularly long that I 
might not fill it out on the spot. She 
mentioned something about not having the 
proper facilities, but the address on the 
envelope was identical to that of the office.
I was naturally intrigued about the 
letter and editorial in that afternoons 
TARTAN. I assume now that they had me 
mail the application because they didnt 
want to know my color. Although this is 
only an application for temporary help it 
probably indicates that the company has 
come to a fair compromise in a delicate 
situation and further consumer pressure 
would only frustrate the management to 
the point of unresponsiveness.
I suggest that now all beer drinkers can 
sip their brew with a clear conscience.
Greg Simkins
Editor:
Alpha Phi Omega deeply regrets the 
unfortunate omission of comment 
summaries that were to be printed in the 
fall 1971 FCE in the departments of 
Modern Languages, SUPA, and Social 
Relations. In our haste to make the results 
available, these comments were 
accidentally mislaid and were not printed. 
We are taking steps to prevent this from 
happening in the future. Thank you once 
again for your understanding and 
cooperation.
Kappa of A Phi O.
Editor:
The parents children and teachers of the 
CMU Child Care Center wish to thank the 
brothers oand Pledges of ATO for their 
strenuous efforts to make the Center a 
better place.
CMU Child Care Center
Editor:
We would like to extend an open 
invitation to the university community. We 
are a group of Tech graduates and 
undergraduates who have started a business 
as an independent organization working in 
association with a national corporation. In 
four months we have built our Pittsburgh 
organization to the point where we will be 
handling a volume of nearly $100,000 this 
year. We are now expanding to 
Philadelphia, New York City, and 
Washington D.C. Needless to say, we need 
ambitious people to help in this expansion. 
We are looking for people who are 
interested in either marketing or 
management positions, full or part time, 
who will be in these three areas (as well as 
people for our Pittsburgh operation) during 
the summer. These positions are rather 
rewarding financially and 'ours is an 
extremely flexible organization. This is an 
opportunity to earn while you learn; no 
experience is necessary. Give us a call for 
further information and an opportunity to 
rap. Call 683-0081 almost anytime.
Tech Business Opportunity Group

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  Tuesday, April 18, 1972  Page 3
Announcements:
The Contempory Music Ensemble of CMU
will present a program of contemporary 
and avant garde chamber music at the Winchester-Thurston School Auditorium Wed
nesday, April 19, at 8:30 pm. This new 
group will be joined by bass-baritone Less 
Cass as soloist in it's inaugural concert, 
which is free and open to the public.
The Grand Total of the Bus Shelter Fund is
$3.77. The Commuter Club thanks all who 
have contributed.
The Washington Journalism Center, an in
dependent educational institution in the 
Nation's Capitol, will award approximately
14 fellowships in Washington in 1973 to 
American and Canadian journalists with at 
least two year's professional experience 
and to young minority-group Americans 
who are college graduates and are interest
ed in careers in journalism.
The five-month fellowship program con
sists of seminare with government officials, 
members of Congress, and Washington re
porters and editors and special reporting 
projects or internships. Fellows with pro
fessional experience pursue in-depth re
search or investigative reporting projects. 
The minority-group Fellows work in in
ternships in Washington news organiza
tions. The fellowships provide stipends of 
$3,700 to cover living expenses. There is 
no tuition charge.
The dates and deadlines for the 1973 
program are: November 1, 1972: deadline 
for applications. January 15, 1973: Fellow
ship program begins. June 15, 1973: Fel
lowship program ends. For a copy of the 
Center's bulletin and application forms 
write to: The Washington Center, 2401 
Virginia Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
20037.
Wendell Freeland, chairman of the Federal
Commission on Medical Malpractice, will 
speak orr Friday, April 21, at 7 pm. in the 
Duquesne Room on the third level of the 
Duquesne University Union. His talk will 
be of special interest to pre-law, pre-medi
cal, and pre-dental students as well as those 
who are now enrolled in law, medical and 
dental schools and nursing programs. His 
appearance is sponsored by the Pre-Law 
and Pre-Medical Societies at Duquesne. At
tendance is free and open to the public. 
For further information call Tom Burgunder, president, Pre-Law Society, 434-7778.
There is a paying job in Europe available to
any college student willing to work. Most 
of the jobs are in resorts, hotels, restau
rants, factories, offices and shops in Swit
zerland, France, Germany, England, Italy 
and Spain. Standard wages are always paid 
and free room and board are usually pro
vided.
Student Overseas Services, a Luxem
bourg student organization, will obtain the 
job, work permit, visa, and any other ne
cessary working papers for any college stu
dent who applies.
Interested students may obtain the SOS 
Handbook on earning a trip to Europe 
which includes the initial job applicaiton 
form, job listings and descriptions, and a 
breakdown of the brief job orientation in 
Europe by sending their name, address, ed
ucational institution and $1 (for addres
sing, handling, and postage) to Placement 
Officer, SOSStudent Overseas Service, 22 
Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg, Europe. 
Applications should be submitted early 
enough to allow SOS ample time to obtain 
work permits and other necessary papers.
The film school at the Orson Welles Center
in Cambridge, Mass. is offering summer 
courses in Super-8 filmmaking, 16mm filmmaking, a Video Workshop, and a selection 
of Film Seminars. Study may be arranged 
on a full or part-time basis. Complete infor
mation and a catalog may be obtained by 
writing to The Film School, Box PR1, 
1001 Mass. Ave. Cambridge, Mass. 02138.
The History Department (Department of
History and Philosophy as of 6 April) will 
offer a B.A. in Philosophy. For further 
information, see Dr. Schaefer in the His
tory Office or Professor Annette Baier and 
Professor David Wojick in BH 132 A&B.
Harrisburgh Independent Press, a weekly
alternate newspaper, needs a managing edi
tor and experienced reporters. If you 
would like to join us in our efforts to 
awaken a community parched for responsi
ble journalism (low pay but infinite possi
bilities and challenge), please call or write 
Harrisburgh Independent Press at 1004 
North Third St., Harrisburgh pa., 17102. 
Phone 717-232-6794.
Faculty and staff who will attend Com
mencement on Monday, May 15, are re
quested to park in their regularly assigned 
areas, except in the case of the Skibo re
served lot. That lot will be reserved for 
'honorary degree candidates, trustees, and 
other guests. Those who regularly park 
there are asked to use the lot adjoining 
Morewood Gardens.
The First Unitarian Church of Pittsburgh,
Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues, pre
sents Roving Roundtable on Sunday, April 
23 at 10:00 am. Topic is "The Presidential 
Candidates and Issues." Dr. James M. Mal
loy, Department of Political Science of the 
University of Pittsburgh will discuss this 
most appropriate subject. A question and 
answer session will follow.
On Homecoming Sunday, April 23 at 
11:00 am. the topic will be "Men, Women, 
Children and the Liberation." Our favorite 
words are freedom, brotherhood, creativi
ty, democracy, community. Out of these 
have we, since out beginnings, worked for 
the liberation of all. In the words of Sister 
Corita, "out of all the dark and apparently 
painful stuff labored to make the flowers 
grow."
Audition dates have been announced for
Brier Hill Playhouse.
Lee Melville and Gary Farr, producers 
of the summre playhouse, will audition ac
tors, singers and dancers on Sunday, April
16 from'2 to 6 pm. in the basement of 
Immaculate Conception R.C. Church, 119 
West Chestnut St., Washington; Saturday, 
April 22, from 5:30 to 9 pm. at Mario's 
School of Dance, 5824 Forbes Ave., Pitts
burgh; Sunday, April 23, 2 to 6 pm. at 
Jean King School of Dancing, 68 East Fay
ette St., Uniontown. A pianist will be pro
vided.
The 1972 season opens at Brier Hill 
Playhouse May 17 with the "Peanuts" mu
sical, "You're a Good Man, Charlie 
Brown."
FOOD SERVICE is sponsoring a French
Theme Dinner on Wednesday, APril 19. 
Entrees include Beef, Filt of Sole, and 
Spring Chicken. Please attend this festive 
event.
A team of ABC News foreign and domestic
correspondents will offer their analysis of 
national and world events on a "News
room" special, Friday, April 21 from 10 to
11 pm. on Channel 13, WQED.
This one hour, black and white special 
will give viewers an opportunity to hear 
first hand stories and world-wide events 
that may effect their future.
ABC correspondents participating are: 
Sam Donaldson, Washington correspon
dent; Jim Giggans, Saigon Bureau corre
spondent; Howard Tuckner, Hong Kong 
Bureau chief; and George Watson, London 
Bureau chief.
According to ABC News' Ed Morgan, 
"The first months of 1972 may well en
compass the greatest number of first mag
nitude events in the history of journalism."
FREE - The Subject is Jazz - Nathan Davis,
Black American musician and professor of 
music plus a mime show on April 22, 7:30, 
Science Hall 7500.
The Cmu Sports Car Club will sponsor
"Diamonds are Forever" a Poker/Gimmick 
auto rallye, on Sunday, April 23, starting 
in the Skibo parking lot and finishing with 
a picnic at Keystone State Park. This event 
will be a good beginner's rallye and promis
es to be fun for all who participate, regis
tration opens at 10 am. on Sunday morn
ing, with cars leaving beginning at 11 am. 
Cost is $2.00 per car with a limit of 2 
persons per car. Further information will 
be available during Carnival. Pack a picnic 
lunch and join us for an afternoon in the 
country.
Classified Ads-.
Modern furnished efficiency apartment.
Air conditioned. Summer sublet with 
option. Squirrel Hill (15 min. CMU). Call 
521-0240.
Apt. to sublet, up to 4 people May through
August. Lease open for September, all 
newly remodeled. 687-7091 in Oakland.
Help wanted. Male or female, full or part
time.Camlar Corporation. Phone Mr. Swan 
373-1311.
Sublet June - August. One bedroon
furnished apartment. Ideal Location. 
Beeler St. Call 687-7527.
Female needed to share apartment. Living
room, kitchen two bedrooms. $53/month. 
Call 683-2391.
The Computation Center is accepting
applications for part time experienced 
COBOL programmers. Apply to Science 
Hall, Room 5216.
Wanted: Roommate, spacious apartment,
private bedroom, furnished, $100/month, 
Shadyside, 1 block from Walnut and 
Aiken, May to August, September lease 
open. Call Jean Pierre, 687-7747, 
687-1991.
Compact refrigerators, bicycles (folding)sewing machines, typewriters, and desks for rent. Call 279-7951 after 6 PM.
Earn extra income, part-time business, will
not interrupt your school work. Write 
name and phone number for details to P.O. 
Box 4939, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206.
Spare time modeling assignments available
in promotional, fashion, and photographic 
areas. No experience necessary. Top sala
ries. Write A&R Associates, Box 7220, 
Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
films:
CAMPUS
YELLOW SUBMARINE. Activities Board. 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday; April 20, 21, 
22. 7:00, 9:00 pm. Sunday, Aril 23 at 8:00 
pm. Porter Hall 100. Admission: $.50 with 
Activities Board Film Card.
M.A.S.H. Men's Dorm Council. Thursday 
and Friday, April 20 and 21. 7:30, 10:00 
pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Admission: $1.25.
THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR. Men's Dorm 
Council. Saturday, April 21. 5:30, 8:00, 
and 10:30 pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Free.
CHATHAM
BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE 
KID. Friday, April 21. 7:00, 9:30 pm. 
Chatham Chapel. Admission: $1.00.
"Z" Monday, April 24. 7:00, 9:30 pm. 
Chatham Chapel. Admission: $.50.
COMMUNITY
QUEEN CHRISTINA. Greta Garbo. April 
16th-19th. Pittsburgh Playhouse. 7:30 and 
9:30 pm on weekdays; 7:00 and 9:00 pm 
on Sunday. SUSAN LENNOX with Greta 
Garbo and Clark Gable, April 20th-22nd. 
THE BRIDE WORE BLACK-Truffaut, 
April 23rd-26th.
THE SHOP ON MAIN STREET. Director 
Jan Kadar will be present. Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Wednesday, April 19 at 8:00 pm. 
Admission: $1.00.
OPEN CITY. Directed by Roberto Ross
ellini and written by Frederico Fellini and 
sergio Amedei. Starring Anna Magnani. 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Sunday, April 23 at 
7:30 pm. Free.
INDEPENDENT FILM MAKER: ROBERT 
NELSON. Featuring OH DEM WATER
MELONS. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Monday, 
April 24 at 8:30 pm. Admission: $1.00.
TELEVISION
THE RISE OF LOUIS XIV. Directed by 
Roberto Rossellini. Thursday, April 20 at 
8:30 pm, and Sunday, April 23 at 4:00 
pm. Channel 13.
ORPHEUS. Directed by Jean Cocteau. 
Film Odyssey. Friday, April 21 at 8:30 pm 
on Channel 16. Saturday, April 22 at 8:00 
pm on Channel 13.
Blow Up Your Photo
TO 2 Ft. x 3 Ft. Poster Size
A 2 ft. x 3 ft. Black and White Poster 
made from any of your black and 
white, color,polaroid photographs!
$4.95 includes postage and handling
Add 6% Pa. Sales Tax,
Send: Check or Money Order, name, addreu tot
THE BIG PHOTO COMPANY
BOX 1947 
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 15230

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18,1972
Administration Accused of Stalling on Sexual Equality
*
Mina Gerall
The following excerpts have been taken 
from a letter addressed to Mr. Fred Foy, 
Chairman of C-MLTs Board of Trustees. 
The contents of the letter were prepared 
by the C-MU Monitoring Committee. The 
Committee was assigned to monitor and 
facilitate changes relating to women at 
C-Mu. The letter constitutes the Comm
ittees report about changes in the status 
of faculty women and progress related to 
women students for the academic year
1971-1972.  (This progress report is based 
on findings of sex discrimination published 
on Nov. 1, 1971) Since the letter will be 
published in its entirety in FOCUS, the 
following portions are those pertaining to 
women students only.
INCREASED EDUCATIONAL OPPORTU
NITIES FOR WOMEN AT CMU
According to the Commissions Report, 
one of the most disturbing Commission 
findings was that the educational opport
unities for women at CMU have been de
clining for some time The report re
commended that the University attempt to 
reverse these trends by: 1) seeking ways to 
bring women students and faculty into tis 
predominantly male science, engineering, 
and business administration programs, and
2) considering establishment of new strong 
programs designed to attract and educate 
women.
COMMENT: As far as the Monitoring Com
mittee knows, no effort has been made by 
the administration to implement the first 
part of this recommendation. At the grad
uate level, some attempts to recruit more 
women have been initiated by the graduate 
women themselves. These women have re
ceived support from their department 
chairmen. They also are able to report a 
significant increase in the number of wo
men admitted to these programs.
Several programs of interest to both wo
men and men will be phased out with the 
closing of MMCC in June 1973 (e.g. the 
joint elementary education program with 
Chatham, and the existing child develop
ment program). The subcommittee ap
pointed by Dr. Schatz on the future of 
Margaret Morrison has recommended a De
partment of Human Potential which would 
build on current programs in education and 
human development. Faculty members in 
GSIA have also suggested a Center for Ap
plied Behavioral Science. Even though the 
federal government is interested in prov
iding endowments for a number of centers 
at key universities throughout the country, 
this plan, as well as the recommendaiton of 
the Margaret Morrison Committee, have 
failed to receive any administration sup
port. It is becoming increasingly apparent 
that expansion or redirection into areas of 
applied behavioral research or human dev
elopment research is not an option CMU 
vill consider. Yet programs of this kind 
vould make it possible to attract women 
>f professional and academic stature to 
erve on the faculty and would attract larg
er numbers of women graduate and under
graduate students. It is also an area which 
ihe nation has recognized as being of prim
ary concern to the extent of proposing new 
cabinet positions and expanded support to 
allow for the maximal pursuit of research 
pertaining to human development and po
tential.
COUNSELING FOR WOMEN STUDENTS
One of the recommendations of the 
Commissions Report was special coun
seling programs designed to meet the needs 
of women undergraduate and graduate stu
dents.
COMMENT: As far as the Monitoring Com
mittee knows, the administration has not 
taken any action on this recommendation. 
The Educational Policy Council and the 
Student Affairs Council of the Faculty 
Senate have recently established a com
bined subcommittee to study ways of pro
viding special counseling for women stu
dents.
HIGHER HOUSING FEES FOR WOMEN 
STUDENTS
The Commissions Report recommend
ed that women students should not have to 
pay for special services that they have not 
 themselves elected to receive (e.g., women 
living in Morewood pay higher fees than 
men pay in their dormitories).
COMMENT: It is the Monitoring Comm
ittees understanding from Dean Swank 
that plans are underway to correct this 
situation by the Fall of 1972. According to 
Dean Swank, the University will make less 
expensive living space available for women. 
Also, with the increase in co-ed dormitory 
facilities which Dean Swank has also prom
ised for the Fall of 1972, both men and 
women will have more options in their 
choice of housing arrangements.
PARIETAL RULES
According to the Commissions report, 
steps should be taken to eliminate any pol
icies which tend to perpetuate double 
standard for men and women. Parietal rules 
were specifcally mentioned.
COMMENT: a survey conducted early in 
the Fall of 1971 by the students indicated 
that the majority of both women and men 
students wished to eliminate parietal rules. 
Dean Swank iand the trustees were advised 
of this at the October meeting of the Trus
tees Committee of Student Affairs. The 
Trustees accepted the idea of abolishing 
parietal rules as long as provisions were 
made for students who preferred more con
trols over the hours their roommates and 
neighbors received guests. Dean Swank was 
apparently unconvinced about the advisa
bility of eliminating parietals since no ad
ministrative decision was made regarding 
this issue by the end of the Fall semester. 
Finally, in response to increased student 
pressure, Dean Swank conducted his own 
survey and late in March 1972 announced 
that parietal rules would be eliminated by 
the Fall of 1972. Dean Swank has assured 
those students who wish to retain limited 
hours for receiving guests that specific ar
eas will be reserved for this purpose; he 
estimated 80 spaces for men and 80 spaces 
for women will be needed.
EQUAL PAY FOR EQUAL WORK
During the course of the Commissions 
investigations in the Spring of 1971 it was 
discovered that male dorm counselors were 
being paid, but women dorm counselors 
did not receive any remunreation. This sit
uation was brought to Dean Swanks atten
tion and the Commission was told that 
beginning in the Fall of 1971 women coun
selors would also be paid.
COMMENT: Early in the Fall, the Monitor
ing Committee discovered that once again 
male dorm counselors were receiving a sala
ry and female dorm counselors were not. 
This was brought to Dean Swanks atten
tion but.no corrective action was taken. 
The students again brought it up in the 
Student Affairs Council meeting this 
Spring. Dean Swank stated that he was 
certainly committed to the principal of equal pay for equal work and announced 
that starting next Fall he was eliminating 
all student dorm counselors. It is the Moni
toring Committees opinion that Dean 
Swanks soultion to this problem can only 
be described as irresponsible. It can be easi
ly documented that the dorm counselors 
have played a significant role in the lives of 
students having difficulties adjusting, even 
to the point of preventing potential sui
cides. Th students ojected so strongly to 
Dean Swanks decision that he has agreed 
to reinstate the position of dorm counsel
or. He has also promised that male and 
female dorm counselors will receive equal 
pay beginning September 1972.
GYNECOLOGICAL SERVICES
One of the recommendations of the 
Commissions Report was that gynecologic
al services should be provided for women 
students. The current University health 
policy provides for specialist services if stu
dents are referred by the University phys
ician. The two problems which are directly 
relevant are: 1) there is not adequate in
vestigation of the fees charged by these 
specialists or their professional reputations, 
and 2) young women may find it awkward 
to request a referral for gynecological 
services.
COMMENT: A survey conducted by wo
men students early last Fall indicated that 
the majority of women students at CMU 
would like the University to make available 
the services of a gynecologist. The students 
who conducted this survey have attempted 
on several occasions to discuss with Dean 
Swank ways and means of providing gyn
ecological services for women students at 
CMU. The problem was also discussed at 
the Student Affairs Council during the 
Spring semester. Dean Swank has said that 
he ans Dr. Bamore, who is in charge of 
student health services, are investigating 
the situstion but have been unable to come 
up with a physician who would be willing 
to provide such services. The students have 
suggested to Dean Swank that he appoint a 
student committee to work with him on 
finding a solution to this very important 
problem, but Dean Swank has consistently 
refused to appoint such a committee. On 
all the effort to acoid the question, a sim
ple cost analysis of alternative gynecol
ogical service arrangements has not been 
made. The Monitoring Committee, in a 
March memorandum, requested that Dean 
Swank set up a student committee to inves
tigate relative costs. Although Dean Swank 
requested that the Monitoring Committee 
make recommendations to him about how 
to proceed in this matter, the Committee 
has as yet received no reply to that mem
orandum.
RU6S
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Russ 
SIS S19 S29 $49
abo xfe, 12x12*, 12x15* te.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE  
BEDROOMS, LIVINGROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director CJwiira, BaltoiWy Chain,
CHASES
542 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OPflN DAILY 10 am. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) 
For Information .. . CaM 421*1025
Whyher 
daughter was 
taught religion 
-without a 
catechism
She asked, Mother, how do you know thats what God wants? And her mother said, I dont know for sure. And I dont think anyone does. But as we learn more and more, we find that every man everywhere, religious or not, rich or poor, good or bad, has a part of the truth in him. So Alices daughter learned that not all answers can be recited from memory, but that to men who will open their minds and hearts, the truth is constantly being revealed.
I'll tell you 
what I believe... '*
is often heard among Quakers, for we do not all believe alike. Because we feel that each man can follow what the inner light shows him, we have no inflexible creeds or statements of belief. All men can be seekers and jxitential finders.
Are you interested in a religion that follows no dogma or formula? Would you like to explore the approach of the Friends'? If so, we have some free and quite readable leaflets.
?SOCIETY OF FRIENDS] 4836 Ellsworth Avenue Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213Please send ? free literature j ? location of nearest Friends j Meeting House. I understand j no one will call. j
Low Prices
AMPEX
 Mean Savings
Quality 8-Track
and Cassettes Tapes
for further * 0 0 n T % ninformation call: 003-941 
TRIENDS \
GENERAL\ 
CONFERENCE j

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972 - Page 5
Sex Discrimination at C-MU 
Exposed in London Press
Mina Gerall
The feminists struggle against sex dis
crimination at CMU and Pitt was made 
public recently in a London newspaper 
(THE GUARDIAN, London, England). 
The article written by Ruth Adam is enti^ tied Penny dame, tuppence coloured. 
While in Pittsburgh this winter, Ms. Adam, 
a British novelist, journalist and feminist, 
uncovered some facts and attitudes sur
rounding discriminatory practices of Pitts
burghs universities.
Ms. Adams assessment of the Pittsburgh 
syndrome: Pittsburgh has long been a 
mans world and a breeding-ground for & feminism, and both of its universities are 
currently fighting off accusations of prac
ticing sex discrimination.
University education in the Steel City 
is naturally concerned with the tough, tra
ditionally masculine disciplines, such as en
gineering, physics, natural sciences, and in
dustrial administration. At Carnegie-Mel
lon, the independent university, the commission appointed to stamp out discrimin
atory oractices asked why women are only 
24 per cent of students, compared with 40 
per cent in the past? The admissions office 
supposed it was because few women are 
interested in-for instance-industrial design. 
But in that case why are fewer females also 
admitted to painting and sculpture which is 
more their line? Because men are likely to 
be better qualified than women since they 
have had to brave social disapproval to 
select artistic careers.
The two programmes of special inter
est to women-library science and social 
work-have been taken off campus; the pro
portion of women on the faculty will next 
year be reduced from 10 per cent to 7 per 
cent, more women than men use the bur4 eau of placements but a smaller proportion 
of women graduates are placed in good 
jobs; The commission wonders bleakly 
whether it wouldnt be a good idea in the 
predominantly male university to hire a 
psychologist specially to counsel women 
against the fear-of-success syndrome. 
Ms. Adam went on to discuss the cases 
recently investigated by HEW concerning 
women faculty members at Pitt, who com
plained they were underpaid, underpro
moted, and harassed for being feminists. 
HEW agreed that faculty men tended to be 
paid more than the official norm and facul
ty women less, that two complainants had 
been denied promotion because of their 
sex. The President of UCWR (University 
Committee for Womens Rights) complained that she had been told by her male 
department boss, You know what happens 
to people who are too far away from ciltural norms, they get placed in insane asy
lums, which, from one psychologist to an
other probably does rank as harassment. 
The article concludes with a warning set 
out be Pitts UCWR. A sinister ploy in
voked by university administrators is to
use the black males on the university staff 
to represent the administration at official 
meetings with the white faculty feminists. 
In enlightened university society, in the 
US, a black man has the kind of position 
an Anglican clergyman used to hold in mid
dle-class circles. Wellbred persons are care
ful what they say in his presence in case 
of inadvertently stumbling on something 
that sounds racialist, and if he cares to hold 
forth on that subject, they listen respect
fully. Therefore when the UCWR women 
stormed in to confront the administration 
and found it represented by black males 
(who are a tiny fraction of it in real life) it 
was impossible for them not to be inhibi
ted.
The black males, on the other hand,
frankly admit that They view the womens 
demands as competitive with that of the 
blacks for the limited amounts of funds 
which they say the university will be will
ing to spend on alleviating discrimination 
They are only interested in bias against 
black men. Black males have done vir
tually nothing at Pitt for the job advance
ment of black women. This male bonding 
of black and white against uppity women is 
something new in American society. Whe
ther it stands for progress or reaction it has 
a mournful footnote in the case of Pitt. 
The womens rights activists of today are 
the civil rights activists of yesterday, the 
same women who dedicated themselves to 
helping the black males to achieve their 
places in the university.
National Program of
Faculty Ratings Planned
A new program that allows students to 
evaluate the performance of their teachers 
has been developed by Educational Testing 
Service.
Besides allowing students a chance to 
express their views anonymously about 
courses and teachers, it also gives instruc
tors an objective way to monitor their own 
performance and progress.
Called the Student Instructional Report 
(SIR), the program is an effort to improve 
instruction based on responses to an 
ETS-designed questionnaire supplied to 
students by the colleges themselves.
The questionnaire was developed by 
ETS researchers with the aid of college 
faculty members and students. It is com
posed of questions about specific teaching 
practices and mor$ general topics including 
such queries as:
Did the instructor encourage students to 
think for themselves?
Were the course objectives made clear?
How much effort did students put into 
the course?
Were students informed of how they 
would be evaluated?
The ETS questionnaire also includes 
questions about a students reasons for tak
ing the course and the grade he expects to 
receive. In addition, an instructor is free to 
include questions of his own to learn more 
about factors unique to his particluar class. 
The questionnaire results are reported for
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Bellefiold Avert w
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
RU EUROPE 72
FLY TO THE EUROPEAN CITY OF YOUR CHOICE 
ON AIRLINES SUCH AS PAN AM KLM TIA
Departing A Returning Daily
Office Open (rum 
10:00 a.m. To 10.00 p.m.
WE HAV THF MOST COMPLETE EUROPEAN TRAVEL PROGRAM
 CAB LEASING. RENTALS & PURCHASING, fijlj ; J) 'INTRA-EUROPEAN STUOENT FLIGHTS EURAIL PASSES  TOURS ETC
NATIONAL STUOENT TRAVEL SERVICES
5938 RAVENNA ST., PGH., PA.
each class as a group, not for individual 
students.
Student evaluation of teachers is not a 
new concept. The procedure has been used 
for some time at various institutions, but 
ETS says SIR should provide an instructor 
with information to compare his perform
ance with others in his discipline on a nat
ional scale. The program is available to 
institutions throughout the United States 
and Canada.
More informaiton about SIR may be 
obtained by contacting: Institutional Re
search Program for Higher Education, Edu
cational Testing Service, Princeton, New 
Jersey, 08540.
Child Care 
Center Plans 
Open House
The children of the CMU Child Care 
Center wish to invite all interested admini
stration, alumni, faculty, staff, and stu
dents to their first Open House. It will be 
on April 25, from 7:30 to 9:30 pm. at the 
CMU Child Care Center, Morewood Gar
dens (entrance in rear of building). Re
freshments will be served.
The teachers, parents and children who 
are already benefitting from thin service 
will be in attendance. Please come and 
bring your own children: let them play 
with the equipment and toys while you 
talk with parents who have used the Center 
this year.
The Center will be open this summer 
Monday through Friday from 8 am. til 
5:30 pm. Children from 3 years through 8 
years of age may attend.
During the academic year 72-73, the 
center will definitely care for children from 
3 to 6 years of age. There is a possibility 
that 2 year olds can be accepted.
If you wish to find out more about the 
summre and academic year sessions, come 
to the Open House or call Pat Pringle, 
421-0495 days, or Stephanie Meltzer, 
963-7684 evenings.
There is also a possibility that infants 
from 2 months to two years of age may be 
cared for this fall. Anyone with children in 
this age group who might be interested can 
get more information by calling Dr. Helene 
Borke at 521-7998 evenings or Pat Pringle 
at 421-0495 days.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972
SEATRAINActivities
...and...
  v  W  v  MmBoardThe Sorry Muthas
PresentsFriday, April 21st. 8:30 P.M.
Aw
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
$3.50 with CMU ID $450 without

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18,1972 - Page 7
Spring Carnival
This Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 
some startling things are going to happen 
to Carnegie-Mellon University. First of all, 
the sky is going to be blue for three days in 
}^a row. Then, all of the potholes in Pitts
burgh will disappear. Shortly following 
these two events, the female-ratio at CMU 
will become 2:1. But, all of these occur
rences will not be noticed because during 
those three days Spring Carnival will be 
descending upon us.
During the weekend, there will be some
thing for everyone, and more than one ^ thing for some people. Festivities will start 
Thursday at 4:30 as the Midway opens on 
the Skibo parking lot. Weather permitting, 
CMUs first TGIT will be staged at the 
Midway. Otherwise, the Thank God Its 
Thursday dance will be somewhere in Ski
bo. (Note: those who do not like to dance 
can call it the So Happy Its Thursday 
dance.) In the evening at 9:00 pm. a gala
0 fireworks display will originate at the foot
ball field and light the balmy Pittsburgh 
sky. At least one observer has described 
previous displays as being orgasmic, and
Announcing: The FASPCMSCFT!
f (Thats the First Annual Super Psych Car
negie-Mellon Spring Carnival Frisbee Tour
nament)
This event which naturally preceeds the 
SASPCMSCFT, will be held at 1:30 on 
Friday the 21st, on the Cut.
Now you, too, can experience the 
thrills, excitement, and glory of our Fris
bee heritage. At long last, the official rules 
| of IFA approved Ultimate Frisbee have 
come to Carnegie, and Pittsburgh is a bet
ter place for it. Herewith, the rules to this 
fast moving, dazzling sport.
Teams: Teams will be randomly selected 
on the spot. Each will consist of approxim
ately seven people. If you wish, you can 
show up with a previously formed team 
and compete as a group.
^ Time: Each game will last approximate
ly 15 minutes, depending on the number of 
participants who show up. Please Note: 
There is only a total of one hour allocated 
for the tournament.
Object: The object of the game is to 
gain points by scoring goals. The team with 
the most points at the end of the game is 
declared the winner. A goal is scored when \ a player on the field successfully passes the 
Frisbee to another player on the same team 
standing on the opposite side of the goal 
line.
Throw-Off: Play begins with the
Throw-Off. The referees will determine, by 
the flip of a coin, which team will throw or 
receive. All players must stand on their 
own goal line until the Frisbee is released 
I by one member of the team which is 
throuwin off. As soon as he flips the Fris
bee toward the opposite end of the field all 
players may leave their positions on the 
goal lines. No player on the team throwing 
may handle the Frisbee until it has been 
touched by a member of the receiving 
team.
The Play: The team which has posses
sion of the Frisbee must attempt to move 
the Frisbee downfield into position so that 
they may score a goal by passing the Fris
bee over the goal line. The Frisbee May Be 
Moved In Only One Way: it must be 
thrown. No player may walk, run or take 
any steps while in possession of the Frisbee 
during playing time. The Frisbee may never 
be handed from player to player.
Defense: Members of the team which is 
nt in possession of the Frisbee may gain
hopefully this yearS will produce an equal 
level of excitement.
The following morning the Sweepstakes 
will begin at 9:00 on the Sweepstakes 
Course, which originates in front of the 
Gymnasium. The excitement generated by 
the competition between the buggies, 
which several ignorant observers thought 
were funny looking lawn mowers, is une
qualed on CMUs campus, and will be a real 
treat for all who attend. For those who 
think 9:00 is a little early to watch any
thing, the final heats can still be viewed, as 
the races continue until around 11:00 am.
Staurday activities open again with the 
Sweepstakes finals. At noon, the Midway 
and Arts and Crafts Festival open again. 
Then, at 1:30 on the Skibo Parking Lot, a 
Bike Rally will thrill cyclists who enter. 
Five speed, 10 speed, and no speed bikes 
may enter the slalom and sprint events. For 
people who prefer motorcycles, a similar 
activity for them will begin at 2:00 on the 
IM field. This contest will be a slow speed, 
skill event.
possession in any of three ways: a) a player 
may intercept the Frisbee thrown by a 
member of the opposite team and gain 
possession immediately where he catches 
it; b) a player may block or knock down 
the Frisbee while in flight, gaining posses
sion of the Frisbee where it falls and stops; 
c) a team gains possession of the Frisbee 
whenever the offensive team does not suc
cessfully complete a pass form one memember to another member of their team.
Any single player may guard a player 
in possession of the Frisbee and attempt to 
block his throw. However, he may not foul 
the player. (A player throwing the Frisbee 
is fouled when there is physical contact 
between himself and a member of the op
posing team sufficient to deter the path of 
travel of the throw. A player attempting to 
receive a throw is fouled by any flagrant 
physical action by an opponent: pushing, 
clipping, holding, kicking, etc. which is suf
ficient to arouse the ire of the player
Thursday, April 20
10:00 Sweepstakes Design Judging -- 
Gym
4:30 Midway Opens -- TGIT on Mid
way
9:00 Fireworks Display -- Football 
Field
12:00 Midway Closes 
Friday, April 21
9:00 Sweepstakes Preliminary Races 
12:00 Midway Opens, Arts and Crafts 
Festival Opens
1:00 Picnic, Kite-Flying -- IM Field 
1:30 Frisbee Tournament -- On the Cut 
2:00 Sorry Muthas entertaining on 
Midway
2:30 Girls Relays -- On the Cut 
3:30 Faculty Egg Toss -- On the Cut 
5:50 Arts and Crafts Festival Closes 
8:30 Concert - Carnegie Music Hall 
10:00 Midway Closes 
Saturday, April 22
10:00 Sweepstakes Finals 
11:30 Pepper & Salt v.s. Black Magic -- 
Exhibition Football Game on IM Field 
12:00 Midway Opens, Arts and Crafts 
Festival Opens
1:30 Bike Rally -- Skibo Parking Lot 
2:00 Motorcycle Slalom Event -- IM 
Field
The gym will be the site for the paper 
airplane contest. Representatives of all ma
jor air craft corporations will be present to 
offer the winner top management posi
tions. Then, the Plank Joust will be revived 
after a one year sabbatical from Carnival. 
This event promises to be the muddiest 
event of the weekend, unless of course it 
rains, in which case the picnic may win.
Carnival will come to a hopping halt 
at the dance in the Skibo Cafeteria. In 
addition to enjoyable soulful sounds, those 
who attend will witness the awards ceremo
ny at 11:30. Then, all will return home and 
sleep off the three days of wime, women 
and song.
Of course, the evening events must be 
noted for they are an integral part of the 
weekend! Yellow Submarine, The Tho
mas Crown Affair, and Mash will be 
shown throughout the weekend. Also avail
able for CMUs viewing pleasure are the 
Sorry Muthas at the coffeehouse in the 
Wherrett Room and the Scotch and Soda 
production, A New Day, in the Ball
room.
fouled.)
Scoring: Play continues until a goal is 
scored. As soon as this happens the team 
having scored the point throws off to the 
other team on the signal of the referee. 
Each time a goal is scored the teams switch 
the direction of their attack and defend the 
goal which they have just finished attack
ing. A team is awarded one point for each 
goal legally scored, and there is no other 
way to gain points.
In a nutshell, then, the rules are some
what similar to those used in football. It is 
recommended that you practice before the 
contest in order to familiarize yourself 
with these rules. Prizes will be given away 
to each member of the winning team. Ref
erees will officiate during the games, and 
their decisions will be final.
If you have any questions or comments, 
please see Larry Denburg in 610-E Morewood.
2:30 Paper Airplane Contest -- Gym 
3:00 Plank Joust -- Old Kappa Sig 
Lawn
5:30 Arts and Crafts Festival Closes 
6:00 Midway Closes 
9:00 Dance -- Skibo Cafeteria 
11:30 AWARDS -- at the Dance
COFFEEHOUSE SCHEDULE - Sorry 
Muthas entertaining - Thrusday and Sat
urday at 9:00 and 11:00 pm in the Wher
rett Room, Skibo.
SCOTCH N SODA - A New Day - 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8:30 in 
Skibo Ballroom.
MOVIE SCHEDULE
MDC: M.A.S.H. - Thursday and Fri
day nights at 7:30 and 10:00 pm in Doher
ty Hall 2210.
MDC: Thomas Crown Affair - Satur
day night only at 5:30, 8:00, and 10:30 
pm in Doherty Hall 2210.
Activities Board: Yellow Submarine
Friday afternoon, 3:00
Saturday afternoon, 3:00
Thursday Night, 8:00, 10:00
Friday night, 7:00
Saturday night, 7:00,9:00
Sunday night, 8:00
Shown in Porter Hall 100.
The Midway opens at 12:00, as does a 
new attraction, the CMJJ Arts and Crafts 
Festival. Located on the football stadium 
patio, this sale and exhibit will add atmos
phere to the Carnival, and attract some 
people usually uninterested in Carnival.
At 1:00 a picnic on the IM field will 
offer free food to everyone. The waiters at 
the event will once again be members of 
the Administration. Students can come to 
the picnic and then write their parents 
bragging how you ate a hot dog touched by 
the president of the University! All types 
of sports equipment will be available, as 
well as free kites! Remember, flyers should 
bring their own tails.
Starting at 1:30 on the cut, there will be 
participation events for the fun of partici
pants and observers. First will be the Fris
bee tournament, open to all Whamo Wierdos and frisbee jocks. Girls relays will fol
low, open to all women students who want 
to run and jump. Finally at 3:30 there will 
be a faculty exhibition of the ancient art of 
egg toss. CMUs favorite teachers get splat
tered with extra large eggs.
Friday night Seatrain will entertain 
students again, this time at the Carnegie 
Music Hall. The opening act will be the 
Soryy Muthas, a jug band type group 
who will be preforming at various times 
and places throughout the weekend.
Bike Rally New 
at CMU
New this year for Spring Carnival is the 
Bike Rally. The Rally is open to any CMU 
student or faculty or staff member, and it 
will be held on the Saturday of Carnival, 
April 22. Registration will begin at 1:30 in 
the Skibo Parking Lot.
The origin of the rally is the amazing 
multiplication of bicycles, both coasters 
and the more sophisticated multi-speed 
bikes, that CMU and most of the country 
have experienced over the past few years. 
Bicycles weaving across the cut are now as 
common as long hair. But just missing stu
dents on the way to class is no test of the 
real skill and maneuverability of the bicy
cle or the ability of the rider.
To further this end, the carnival com
mittee has devised a series of five test events to finally determine who are the elite 
of the CMU bicycle community.
1. Slalom: a twisting obstacle course in 
the Skibo Parking Lot. 2.Sprint: 50 yd. 
speed race from a standing start. 3. Hill 
Climb up Flagstaff Hill with a 20 yd. ap
proach to the starting line. 4. Large Sla
lom: longer and more intricate slalom. 5. 
Slow race: 30 yd. straight event where the 
slowest time wins and rider must stay in a 
narrow lane.
Each entrant must enter all five events. 
Points will be given as follows: one point 
for first, tow for second, and so forth up 
and including ninth place. All other places 
will be given the maximum total of 10 
points. The winner is the one with low 
total for all five events. In case of a tie for 
total points, precise times will determine 
the winner. Fouls in any event will result in 
the maximum score.
Prizes will be given to the lowest two 
total point scores in each class. There are 
two calsses: one for coaster bicycles and 
one for multi-speed bicycles. Each ontrrnt 
can only enter one bicycle and in only one 
class.
Registration will begin at 1:30 in Skibo 
Parking lot. After passing a preliminary 
brake test and general bicycle inspection 
each entrant will be sent to the various 
events. A full description of all evnets will 
be available at the registrars table.
FASPCMSCFT arrives

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972
Spring Carnival 72 will turn this years 
Midway into Sesame St. The theme around 
which the individual booths are being built 
is Mother Goose Meets Dr. Seuss on Sesa
me St. While walking down the Midway 
during Carnival, onlookers will see the 
Dutch Boy and The Dyke (Alpha Tau 
Omega) and The Frog Prince (Chi Ome
ga). WHile Peter Pan (Beta Theta Pi) 
goes soaring over the Midway, Willie Won
kas Candy Factory (Pi Kappa Alpha) will 
be hard at work. Tau Delta Phi is at work 
putting Alice in Wonderland and Beta 
Sigma Rho is concentrating on a literary 
criticism of The Cat in the Hat Comes 
Back Again. After stopping off at the A 
Phi O Concession to get something to eat or 
drink, Carnival participants can try climb
ing Jack and Jills Hill (Delta Upsilon). 
Informed sources warn Carnivalites to 
watch out for The Legend of the Cookie 
Monster (Delta Delta Delta) and the old 
witch from Hanzel and Gretel (Womens 
Dorm Council). To keep Carnival running 
on time, Sigma Alpha Epsilon is providing 
Hickory Dickory CLock and Delta Gam
ma is planning to keep Midway clean with 
Stash, Oscars Trash on Sesame Street. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma will remind the jud
ges to be honest with Pinnochio, and 
Kappa Alpha Theta will present Winnie 
the Pooh. Rounding out the Midway are 
Hi Diddle Diddle (Kappa Sigma), Bar
tholomews Hat (Phi Kappa Theta), 
Globetrotters (Spirit), and The Lorax 
(Delta Tau Delta), The Lookie is a Cook
ie (Sigma Nu) and booths by Mens DOrm 
and Theta Xi.
Among some of the changes from last 
years Midway that will be noticeable is the 
specially designed Entrance to the Midway. 
On the Midway itself is an attempt to re
store more of the Carnival atmosphere. 
Judging has been changed to emphasize the 
booths game. Also this year the awards 
ceremony, on Saturday at 11:30 pm. in 
Skibo Cafeteria, will award prizes for elim
inating the distinction between male and 
female groups.
The booth making groups are exhibiting 
their usual creative fervor. In exclusive 
booth previews written by each group for 
the TARTAN, an excited, competitive 
is prevalent.
Beta Sigma Rho: The Cat in the Hat 
Comes Back Again
Beware! The Cat in The Hat is on his 
way back again. This time hes coming via 
his own shiny, new railroad engine. Hes 
also bringing a railroad race game in his bag 
of tricks. As the Cat in the Hat sits atop 
the engine digging whats happening on the 
Midway, his racing railroad trains will go 
zipping around the track at unbelievable 
speeds. Meanwhile, the confounded cus
tomers will try to pick the winner.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Willie Wonkas Candy 
Factory
Well friends, the whell is back. This year 
it has been cunningly disquised as (of all 
things) a Candy Factory. We will be 
operating under the alias of Willie Wonka. 
So bring your hard earned dimes and make 
them our hard earned dimes.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Winnie the Pooh
This is the booth in which Spring 
Carnival arrives and Christopher Robin and 
All His Forest Friends Have A Party To 
Celebrate The Long Awaited Arrival of 
April. Pooh, Piglet, Tigre et al invite you to 
visit Christopher Robins house, join in the 
festivities and play our dearly beloved 
childrens game, Pin the Tail on the Donkey 
(Eeyore). Gloomy, pathetic Eeyore, in his 
typical nature, predicts a snowstorm for 
Carnival.
Delta Gamma Stash, Oscars Trash on 
Sesame St.
The trash cans are hungry! They say 
So take one to lunch, today.
Recycle the trash,
Oscar will stash!
Help in an ecological way.
Delta Delta Delta: The Legend of the 
Cookie Monster
The issters of Delta Delta Delta have 
written and illustrated the legend of the 
Cookie Monster, a famed Sesame St. char
acter. From this we have depicted the 
Cookie Monsters antics. Anyone who has 
watched Sesame Street is aware of these 
antics and will be thrilled to see a big, furry 
monster with bug-eyes bopping up and 
down from a screaming yellow cookie jar. 
The object of the game is, of course, to 
throw cookies into the monsters mouth!
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Pinnochio
Have you ever been swallowed by a 
whale? No? Come and join Pinnochio in
side the whales cavernous stomach. Step 
onto its squishy tongue and walk farther 
and farther inwards to find Pinnochio. See 
Guiseppio, Cleo the goldfish and Jiminy 
Crickett. Try your luck with a ring toss or 
darts. Can you hoop the ring ever PinnochioS nose, or shoot Jiminy Crickett from 
his shoulders? Come to match your skill 
against chance. The prizes? Real live gold
fish! The sponsors? Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Sorority!
Delta Tau Delta: the Lorax
At the far end of the Midway where the 
Grickle Grass grows,
And the rides trun slow and sing as they
go,
Is the street of the Lifted Lorax.
What is the Lorax?
Why is it there?
And why was it lifted and taken some
where?
At the far end of Midway where the Gric
kle Grass grows,
Ask a D.T.D. He knows.
Theta Xi
The Theta Xi booth will take numberland from Sesame Street and put it in the 
Sesame Street Schoolhouse (where it be
longs). Get back at those torturous num
bers by leaving balls at little numbered 
gates; defy the numbery night which sur
rounds you! Then you can see numbers 
hanging in the sky without a formula in 
sight. You just dont know what numbers 
can be until youve been in the TX booth.
Chi Omega: The Frog Prince
There once was a handsome prince 
walking around the countryside who incur
red the wrath of an ugly witch. To show< 
her displeasure she bopped him on the 
head with her magic wand turning him into 
a little frog. The frog prince was doomed 
to spend the rest of his life hopping around 
the countryside unless he could find a 
beautiful princess who was willing to kiss 
him. He did and she did and he was no 
longer a frog.-The legend of the frog 
prince. |
Sigma Nu: Lookie, Its a Cookie
Sigma Nus booth will be a giant roatting, flashing pinball machine. The game 
will be chaperoned by Mother Goose and 
Sesame Streets own Cookie Monster, and 
is approved for all ages. Prizes have been 
donated by the Cookie Monster himself. 
Looks like good times, excitement and f 
cookies for all. Chances are even good that 
Sigma Nus booth will be in operating con
dition for both judgings this year.
... " ~ 'w' >  <
C.C.C.P. Project: Were Off to See the 
Wizard
Yes folks, you too can live the adven
tures of Dorothy, Toto, the Strawman, the 
Tinman, and the Cowardly Lion as they try 
to reach the Emerald City. Can you out| 
race the Wicked Witch and your Friends to 
be the first to see the Wonderful Wizard of 
Oz? COme over the rainbow to visit the 
Wizard at the edge of the Midway.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972 - Page 9
Photo by Jay CarasSn S Presents Sorry Muthas To Appear WithFechtor's Show Seatrain And At Coffeehouse
Im with you, you re with me,We re with everyone.Take a look, and you 11 see,Each one on his way to a new day.
A NEW DAY is this years 
Scotch V Soda spring production. After 
many long months of preparation, this full 
-length original musical, written and direct
ed by Stephen Michael Fechtor, will be 
presented April 14,15,17-22, at 8:30 pm in 
the Skibo Theater. Tickets are $2.00 at the 
Skibo Information Desk and Baker Hall.
Eggheads To Toss 
Eggs on Friday
The faculty egg toss will take place on 
the cut at 3:30, Friday afternoon of Spring 
Carnival weekend. This event features selsct CMU faculty. Members of the faculty 
will be paired off, and each pair given one 
egg to toss until, naturally, the egg slips. 
The winners are those to keep the egg in 
the air for the longest pariod.
Mud Expected 
At Plank Ioust
Beginning at 3 p.m. Saturday April 22, 
the Plank Joust Event will be held. Loc
ation of the event will be the center of the 
old Kappa Sigma lawn, across from Skibo 
at Devon and Forbes.
Located in the Renter of the Kappa Sig 
lawn will be a large pit which will be dug 
out and filled with water. Across the center 
of the pit will be placed a heavy duty wood 
plank. Contestants in the sport are to go 
one on one at the central area of the plank 
with each trying to force his/her opponent 
into the mud. In order to win, the con
testants opponent has to hit the mud be
fore he does.
* In order to make the game a little easier 
for the smaller 'people of th school, each 
contestant will be required to use a pillow 
which will be filled with rags and can use 
this pillow only to force his opponent into 
the mud. .As one can easily see, strength, 
stamina, and agility are dominant pre
requisites for this sport. The contest will be 
performed on an elimination basis. Winners 
advance until there is an official plank 
joust winner, who will receive campus re
cognition and a special award for his 
efforts.
Hopeful contestants can enter by filling 
out an entry blank(which appears on this 
page), and returning it to Dexter Murphy 
at Beta Theta Pi (682-9836). Filing dead
line is 6:00 pm Thursday, April 20.
about that group we bumped for Randy 
Newman in the fall?
The Sorry Muthas?
Yeah.
I dont know. They sound kinda sorry 
to me. Theyre from Minnesota.
Big shit. Sos Hubert Humphrey. Lets 
get him.
Theyre a four-man one-woman group 
consisting of John Kolstad, Bob Stelnecki, 
Cal Hand, Bill Hinkley and Judy Larson 
and they play more than 35 instruments. 
35?
Well, yeah, if you include kazoo, 
spoons, washtub bass, swinette, and a hand 
forn as instruments. Some of the things 
they play are dobro guitar, harmonica, 
banjo, mandolin, and fiddle. Their sound, 
which they call Mutha Music is sort of a 
combination of folk, country and downhome jug-band music.
That sounds perfect for Seatrain. 
Their album, The Sorry Muthas 
Greatest Hits Vol. 3 is really pretty good. 
They do a lot of true American folk on it 
as well as original songs, plus a song by 
Laudon Wainwright called Glad to see 
you Got Religion. Remember him? He 
used to go to school here.
No kidding?
Also this review in Boston After 
Dark says they played at the Unicorn in 
Boston.
Isnt that the place that Rolling 
Stone magazine likes so much?
Yeah, the reviewer liked them very 
much. He says they bring to mind the Jim 
Kweskin Jug Band. I always liked the way 
Jim Kweskin played The Shiek of 
Araby.
Hey, on record theyre a sextet. If we 
get them how many will come?
Gee, I dont know. Maybe 18. Anyway 
besides opening the Seatrain concert on 
April 2J, the Friday of Carnival, they can 
also play at the coffeehouse Thursday and 
Saturday and play on the Midway Friday 
afternoon broadcast over WRCT.
Far-out. Chalk up another one for the 
AB. See, I told you all along it would be a 
good idea.
The Paper airplane contest will be held 
Saturday at 2:00 pm. in <he gym. With 
four categories of competition everyone 
has a chance to win. Contestants may en
ter competition in accuracy, time duration, 
acrobatics, and distance. A five dollar prize 
will be awarded to the best in each catego
ry. Paper and tape will be made available.
Hot Competition 
Expected At 
Women's Relays
Friday of Spring Carnival at 2:30 the 
womens relays will be held. Women may 
sign up in teams of five on a poster in the 
Morewood lobby. Scheduled events include 
Slugger tete-a-tete-a-tete, Let your fin
gers do the walking with an orange! and 
Let your fingers do the walking with a 
yellow! Rules to these and other relays 
will be posted before Carnival Weekend.
In the past, sororities battled sororities. 
This year the relays are open to all women 
on campus. Funny things happen on the 
way to the cut.
Hmm, lets see, Seatrain needs an 
opening act, who can we get?
How about a rock group?
No, no. Thats no good for them. How
Sad Sachs Tells 
Carnivalites To
"Go Fly A Kite"
All Carnivalites are encouraged by Car
nival Chairman, Ken Sachs, to come out 
and fly a kite. In conjunction with the 
picnic on Friday, the Carnival Committee 
will give away fifty kites, complete with 
string, minus tail. Sachs claimed, We 
know you love to fly kites, so this is your 
chance. A free picnic, lunch, and a free 
kite.Carnival "T" Shirts 
Depict Spirit '72
When Dr. Seuss meets Mother Goose, 
whether it be on the Carnival Midway, at 
the plank joust, bike rally, MDC movie or 
right on Sesame St., Sigma Alpha Iota, the 
music sorority, will be spreading the Spi
rit of 72. In an effort to unify the 1972 
Carnival mood, the sorority is selling 
specially designed Carnival 72 t Shirts. 
The shirts are currently on sale in Baker 
Hall, where a $2.00 donation is being asked 
for each shirt.
The shirts design includes a Dr. Seuss 
creature with Carnival 72 lettered across 
the chest. The sorority and the AMS pro
ject group they are working with, plan to 
move sales to the midway on Thursday. All 
proceeds from the sale will go to Sigma 
Alpha Iota.
I want to enter the Plank Joust Competition.
Photo by Ed Levine
Name:
Campus Address:
Campus Phone :
* Height:
* Weight:
*In the early rounds of competition, contestants will be matched closely in these two 
respects.
Females are more than welcome to enter - so enter today!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972
Cycle Slalom
At 2:00 pm. on Saturday April 22, mo
torcycle enthusiasts can enter or watch the 
first Motorcycle Slalom ever at C U on the 
IM field.
Sponsored by the Y Office, this slow 
speed event will test the skills and handling 
of the driver, rather than the cycle itself. 
All of the stunts have been planned so that 
a driver is almost in no danger. The goal of 
the event is to have the fastest time with
out allowing ones feet to touch the 
ground. Among the obstacles in the Slalom 
are a baloon which is lying on a bulge in 
the track, and the Teeth Carry, in which 
the rider must take in his mouth a tongue 
depressor which is on a pole in a course, 
and deposit it on a table five yards away.
Entrants will gather at the IM field be
fore 2:00, when rules and necessary in
structions will be discussed.
Crafts Sale
The CMU Arts and Crafts Festival will 
take place Spring Carnival Weekend, Friday 
and Saturday, April 21 and 22, 12 to 5:30 
pm., and will be set up on the patio in 
front of the stadium. There should be plen
ty of space available for anyone caring to 
participate. It is hoped that those who take 
part can bring their own display materials.
The structure is very informal. Anything 
can be displayed: candles, belts, photo
graphs, silkscreens, jewelery, sketchings, 
needlecraft, painting and macrame. An art
ist can set up his own time for displays (as 
long as the coordinator knows of his ar
rangements) and he/she keeps all income 
from the sales.
MDC Picnic
v*-- ' #  ' * ' ]
The Mens Dormitory Council will spon
sor a TGIT dance to be held either in the 
ballroom or on the Midway on Thursday, 
April 20 at 4:30. Essentially this will be 
TGI F one day early.
On April 21 at 12 noon, MDC will hold 
a free picnic, open to all residents of the 
Mens Dorms, on the IM field. The usual 
menu of hotdogs, hamburgs, potato chips 
and soft drinks will be served. Members of 
the CMU administration will be cooking 
and serving the food, as in former years.
Soul Dance
Spring Carnival Weekend winds to a 
close with a dance in Skibo Cafeteria at 
9:00 on Saturday night. Featured will be 
the Soul Brothers playing with the Pas
sions, a group of girls well into the Supremes. The nights music will be the soul 
music of the 60s. Carnival Committee 
claims this will be a refreshing change from 
the current popular music.
Awards for booth, buggy and the rest of 
the weekends activities will be presented 
at 11:00 during a break in the dance.
FURNISHED APARTMENTS
OAKLAND and SHADYSIDE
Summer and September. Luxurious, 
large, two-bedroom apartments for 
four, w/w modern furniture, porch.
 Drastic Summer Reductions  
day:391-5446 phones eve:422-9S07
WHAT ARE YOU DOING 
THIS SUMMER?
Pick-A-Project. Reach out, expand 
your world of people and ideas at the 
University of Pennsylvania Summer 
Sessions. Over 290 courses, from 
Archaeology to Zoology, offer credit 
toward an undergraduate, graduate 
or professional degree.
For complete information, mail 
this coupon today.
Q First Session: May 23 to June 30 
? Second Session: July 3 to Aug. 11
NAME________________________________
ADDRESS_____________________________
CITY_________________________________
STATE__________________ZIP__________
UNIVERSITY of IHBO
PENNSYLVANIA LSJ
Summer Sessions 
Room 15C, College Hall 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WB RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 FORKS AVENUE
;Student Discount on Most Items: 
Phone: 683-2181
SKI BARN SHOPS, Inc.
South Aiken at Pembroke Place 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232 
Phone 682-9106
Sfct-e,0)1K
BACKPACKING & TENNIS 
Join the mountain move . . . only at the SKI BARN
Come see the mountain mouse in action  
daily 10-5  wed. 10*9
WRCT/9
SPRING CARNIVAL
with
GROVER FUR NIS FRIENDS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972 - Page 11
the SLIMMER Me of SPIRTS C-MU Dumps Pitt, Illinois
Writing a sports editorial for the Tartan that is interesting to Tartan 
readers and says something sports-related is not difficult at this point. Its 
impossible. Hopefully, next year at this time, the editor wont be saying 
the same. As is traditional, / have a set of goals that / would like to see 
realized in the upcoming months. Whether they will be or not depends a 
lot on you.
Athletics as they exist a CMU are completely different than at just 
about any other school you can mention that has a Varsity program. 
There is neither the interest nor the money to support a top notch 
Athletic Department . Intramurals, however, are quite a different story. 
Despite majority opinion, I Ms are not a fraternity oriented activity. Two 
of the top four football teams were independents. Three of the top four 
basketball teams, including the tQp two were also independent. I Ms are 
for everyone.
So where does that leave me? Naturally there will be the sports news 
-Varsity and IM. But more importantly, Id like to use this page or two as 
a focal point for any athletically related event, and hopefully, throw out a 
few new ideas which everyone seems to be overlooking.
My first has to do with football, which is just around the corner. It 
would be nice, both for the spectators and the team to pack the stands on 
Saturday afternoons next fall. Its obvious that this won't happen as a 
result of a mass movement of the student body to Skibo Field, but the 
stands can still be filled. / see no reason why the A thletic Department, in 
conjunction with SPIRIT, Upward Bound, and perhaps the Pittsburgh 
Police Athletics League, could not invite underpriviledged youngsters to 
an afternoon of fun and games. For many, it would be a good opportunity 
to see what organized athletics are. From the schools point, theres 
always the PR angle, if nothing else. There would not have to be any cash 
outlay on its part, and certainly no paying customer would have to be 
turned away. / see no bad points connected with a program of this sort.
So, Ill be sitting here in Skibo waiting to hear from someoneif 
anyone is still listening.
My last paragraph will be a plea for a staff. Whatever your interests, 
theres room for you. We need reporters as well as people to write opinion 
and color articles. The hours are few and the pay is great, so stop by 
Room 50 or just send me a note c/o The TA R TA N.
On March 24, the Carnegie-Mellon Kar
ate Team started on its trip to the fourth 
annual Karate Tournament at the Univer
sity of Illinois in Champagne, Illinois. Spar
ring for Carnegie-Mellon were: Paul Betten, 
Captain, first degree black belt; Takashi 
Fujioka, President, first degree black belt; 
Larry Macupa, third kyu brown belt; Tom 
Thomas, fourth kyu green belt; and George 
Males, Secretary-Treasurer, fourth kyu 
green belt.
The next morning, Mr. Sadaharu Honda, 
fourth degree black belt and chief instruc
tor for the CMU and Pitt clubs, conducted 
a two and a half hour training session and 
we were able to work out with members of 
the University of Illinois. Then, after a 
hasty lunch, the tournament was started. 
Officiating at the matches were Mr. Honda 
and Mr. Okabi, third degree black belt. The 
tournament was set up so that CMU would 
first face Illinois, then Pitt, and finally, Pitt 
would face Illinois. The winner would be 
the team who won the most matches.
George Males opened with a win against 
his opponent from Illinois. Tom Thomas 
sparred next, and lost to his opponent. 
Larry Macupa also lost his match to Illi
nois. Then, Takashi Fujioka defeated his 
opponent after a heated battle. This made 
the score two to two when Paul Betten 
entered the ring. After a tough battle, he 
defeated his Illinois opponent. This made 
the score three to two and gave the victory 
to CMU.
After a few sample matches between
JJii. football?
Well folks, Black Magic and Pepper & 
Salt are going to go at it again. For those of 
you who are unfamiliar with their game 
last semester, Black Magic and Pepper & 
Salt made history by playing the longest 
intramural football game in CMU history. 
The brothers of Black Magic, the underdog, 
battled with Pepper & Salt for three over
times before getting nipped in the bud 
by the arm of Sanford Pee Wee Rivers, 
quarterback for Pepper & Salt. For the 
, rematch between the two teams during 
Spring Carnival, Black Magic will miss the 
services of Baron Broomfield, second team 
allstar last season, and Charles Cookie 
Fields who both have transferred. One pos
ition will be filled very adequately by 
Ronald Yonkers Ron Shinault no. 21 on 
CMlTs football team. Jeff Hollis will be 
engineering the Black Magic team while 
I Sanford Rivers will be taking controls of 
Pepper & Salt.
For those of you who want to see a 
great game, come out during Spring Carn
ival on the intramural field at 11:30 a.m. 
on Saturday, April 22. See you there!
BATTLE OF THE BUGGIES
Dick Figter
The back hills are being paved! After 
so many years of waiting it is finally being 
done. With this, there is a good chance that 
the record will be broken. Now all I have 
to do is say who is going to do it.
At the bottom of this article I will i have two sets of predictions. Since Im 
writing this before the last freeroll, I feel I 
deserve an easy way out. The two groups 
of predicted finishers are separated into 
who should place, and where I think each 
team will actually end up. The first group 
is based on performance in previous freerolls this year and an approximation of the 
respective push team strengths. The second 
|i is based on past performances.
It seems that Phi Kappa Theta has
gone all out this year and has gotten every
thing working perfectly. Pika looks good, 
but not great, but then again, they always 
put the big effort into race day. Beta hasnt 
found the groove yet but their strong push 
team will bring them to the top three.
Sigma Nu has looked poor so far, but 
last year they cut 30 seconds off their best 
practice time on race day. And this year 
theyll pass the brake test. SAE has a new 
buggy but it will probably be a B team 
machine for its rookie year. Their bike is 
consistent and could move them up, but Ill 
bet that it will never go under 2:25. 
Rounding out the consolation will be ATO, 
who, if they use the Goose instead of the 
Stinger, will have and excellent chance. 
Delta Tau Deltas buggy that took a trophy 
last year rolls well but is too heavy to push 
with great success.
Heres how they should finish:
1. Phi Kappa Theta
2. Pi Kappa Alpha
3. Beta Theta Pi
4. Sigma Nu
5. Sigma Alpha Epsilon
6. Alpha Tau Omega
Now for my second prediciton, based on some inside information and 
a lot of guessing:
1. Beta
2. Pika
3. Phi Kap
4. Beta B
5. Sigma Nu
6. SAE
If neither prediction is correct, then 
some combination of the two might work. 
If not, then I might as well hang it up.
some of the higher ranked black belts of 
the clubs, CMU took on the University of 
Pittsburgh. Once again, George Males began 
with a win. Tom Thomas lost his match, 
but wins were then brought in by Larry 
Macupa, Takashi Fujioka, and Paul Betten. 
This meant that CMU has secured first 
place in the Tournament.
Mr. Honda and Mr. Okabi put on a 
demonstration match before Pitt took on 
Illinois to show the spectators some of the 
finer points of sparring. Then the tourn
ament continued. However, the first match 
had to be cut short when Larry Brownstein, from Pitt, broke his toe. Pitt won the 
next two matches, but lost the last two. 
Thus, Pitt and Illinois tied for second.
A party was held after the tournament 
so that the members from the CarnegieMellon, Illinois, and Pitt clubs could get 
together in a more social atmosphere. The 
clubs got up early the next morning to 
make the long trip home. Some came home 
with light hearts, others with not so light, 
but all came away with a good feeling 
toward one another and a little better 
understanding of the art of Karate.
The CMU Karate Club was especially 
proud of this win, for it signified a mile
stone in its development since its founding 
in 1965 under Julius Paulin, Dr. Martin 
Eisen, and Dr. Daniel Sullivan. Our club 
now has a membership of approximately 
150 students and teachers with alumni 
living all across the United States. At pres
ent, the CMU, Pitt, and Duquesne clubs are 
organizing under the Pittsburgh Shotokan 
Karate Association which will be headed 
by its own Black Belt Council. This move 
will make all of the Pittsburgh area clubs 
much stronger in that they will be much 
more organized and have much closer ties 
with other Shotokan Clubs across the 
country. One of the first moves of the 
Association is to organize a Special Train
ing week end for the entire northeastern 
coast Shotokan Karate Clubs. This Session 
will take place in June of this year. It is 
hoped that someday a much broader inter
collegiate Shotokan Karate Program can be 
set up through the United States.
MORE OUTSTANDING ATHLETES
Two Carnegie-Mellon students have 
been chosen to appear in the 1972 edition 
of Outstanding College Athletes of Amer
ica. They are Anthony McKay, a sopho
more track star and Peter Moses, another 
sophomore, and a member of the soccer 
team.
McKay is perhaps one of the best quarter-milers in America. Last year as a fresh
man, he recorded a 47.6 time for the quar
ter mile and has posted some of the fastest 
times of the present NCAA indoor season 
in the 600 yard run. Coach Gary Meckley 
feels that McKay could go to the Munich 
Olympics if he works hard and continues 
to improve.
Off the track, McKay maintains a 3.0 in 
physics and is a member of Spirit.
Peter Moses was selected on the basis of 
his ability on the soccer team as well as his 
contributions to his campus and commun
ity. He has been a first team all-league 
selection for the past two years and Coach 
Marc Krotee felt that he could have been 
an NCAA little college All-American had 
C-MU been in the NCAA.
 Just Like On TV 3 Different Courses
 (54 HOLES) e S200.00 Tournament every Thursday 
PUTT-IHJTT GOLF COURSE Reduced Ratet fer Clubs
4119 Monroevill* Blvd.  MONROEVILLE  Phon: . . . 373-0063

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972
H & SS Commentary
Mina Gerall
As a student member of the H&SS Col
lege Council, I have had the opportunity to 
observe faculty members in the process of 
interacting with each other and expressing 
their views. Just how open faculty mem
bers are in the presence of students is un
certain. However, it is not their honesty 
which I feel compelled, (due to gross disil
lusionment and concern) to question, but 
rather their sttitudes concerning students 
and education.
I suffer a continual bombardment of 
contradictory statements of philosophy, te
chnique and practical reality. At times, ac
cording to varying topics, faculty insist 
that: students must be responsible for their 
own education and educational choices and 
goals; students must be restrained from em
ploying gamesmanship; students must take 
certain courses whether or not they are 
relevant to their educational goals; students 
wishing to pursue and idiosyncratic educa
tion must rely on the traditional systems 
available; students must be held account
able; students must realize that there are 
two liberal arts goals -- one is directed 
towards admissions in graduate schools, 
one is not --; students must know that an 
open grading system would be too difficult 
for the registrars computer to cope with; 
and so on and so on. No one seems to 
believe in education for educations sake. If 
they do they keep that opinion silent.
A great disparity exists between the hu
manities and social science departments. 
Seemingly little effort has been made to 
come to terms with this dispartiy and to 
create a sense of unity within the college 
and to develop a more harmonious rela
tionship between the two schools of 
thought existing in H&SS. If students are 
pleading for more humanistic (qualitative) 
social science departments, why arent the 
departments seeking a more humanistic di
rection? Instead, there is a steady stream of 
rationalizing, there is the pretension that 
they simply dont understand what the stu
dents want. The faculty just cant fathom 
what our discomfiture is all about! If facul
ty committment is not aimed at student 
need, to whom or to what do they owe and 
pledge their dedication?
During the past few weeks Council has 
been primarily preoccupied with establish
ing a grading system for the College. This 
discussion has raised questions of committxnent and accountability, specifically in 
three areas:
Credit/No Entry
Although it was understood that, in the 
interest of quality, D work would be 
unacceptable, and receive a no entry, 
faculty felt free to subvert the system by 
awarding credit, because they needed a 
D.
Advisory System
The Council affirmed that students 
should be allowed to determine their own 
educational goals and grading system. It 
was agreed that a strong advisory system 
was needed to accomplish this end. With 
glib little twitters department heads asked 
us not to forget the ineffectuality of the 
advising system. The students asked that, is 
such was the case, the advisory system be 
strengthened. Glibly we were told it would 
be almost impossible to achieve this desper
ately needed change.
Student Evaluations
College Council confirmed that under 
any grading system adopted by H&SS, the 
practice of student evaluations must be 
continued. We agreed, but questioned the 
existence of evaluations by some faculty. 
With some concern, we were told that fa
culty would be informed and every effort 
would be made to assure thoughtful evalua
tions,; however, if a faculty member did not 
see fit to write evaluations, there was no 
way the department could enforce the 
Council ruling.
For a new college, a floundering college, 
a committed and accountable faculty is 
essential. We came here to be served, not 
short changed. Undoubtedly, many quali
fied men and women throughout the coun
try are available to fill the positions deser
ted by some of our faculty members.
GIRLS... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR 
A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being accepted for the 1972 camp season. 
MUST BE ABLE TO TEACH ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: 
Dancing, Piano Accompanist and Singing, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Scouting and Nature Study, Photography, Boating, Canoeing or Water Sking. 
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS:
Must be college graduate experienced in camping.
Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise large staff.
WRITE CAMP Dl RECTOR. 2409 SHELLEYDALE DR 
BALTIMORE, MD. 21209
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMIT Convenient Headquarter* . 
for Hardware
* lamp* ? Key Servie* ? Artist Broth**
* HotPlat** Portar Paints ? School SuppBe*
:OMBAWWr OMBAW rkwllU
Doesnt General Electric 
realize the days of enormous 
corporate profits are over?
ft
m
There was a time, fifty or sixty 
years ago, when a major corporation 
in America might expect profits of 
twenty or even twenty-five cents on 
the sales dollar.
Those days are over. But not 
everybody realizes it.
What would you call enormous?
In 1970, Fortunes Top 500 indus
trial corporations realized an average 
profit of about 4 cents on 
the dollar.
General Electric fared 
slightly better than 
average. Last year, 
our profits amount
ed to about 5 cents 
on the dollar.
We are occasion
ally attacked, along 
with business in 
general, as being 
too profit-oriented. 
People argue that if social progress 
is to be made, business must make it. 
And that profits stand in the way of 
social progress.
We would argue quite the opposite.
The business of business is not just 
business.
The purpose of a busi
ness, as we see it, is to produce and distribute 
necessary goods and serv
ices to the profit of society 
... and the business itself.
A business must re
flect societys needs. Eco
nomic, political, legal 
and moral, as well as 
social. It must change as 
society changes and, to 
some extent, influence 
those changes.
But if society profits and the busi
ness does not, the business will fold in 
the short run. It will have no operat
ing funds.
How much 
profit is enough to 
keep a business 
operating? How 
much is too much?
Its hard to say.
However, the 
companies mak
ing only marginal
I.***
*W*
AIM*
t."!'use ^---
/
A/LrKlAfvJ jVr1/]IN*
1
W UAM*i*.,
companies provid
ing new employment, creating new 
products or adding to mans scientific 
and technical knowledge.
Marginal companies are not the 
ones making the important social con
tributions today. For a simple reason. 
They cant afford to.
No responsible company wants a 
return to the days of the robber bar
ons. No responsible company wants 
enormous profits. But no company 
can survive without the profit system.
Why are we running this ad?
General Electric is a big, techno
logical company, with the capabilities 
to do a great deal of problem solving 
in this country.
We think profits have a direct 
effect on our ability to solve 
problems. But we realize the is
sue of profits is one with two 
sides. By telling you our side, 
we hope weve moved you to 
think about your side. Perhaps 
even write us about it.
Wed like to hear what you 
have to say. Please write to 
General Electric, Dept. 901 
570 Lexington Avenue, New 
York, N.Y. 10021.
*
f
GENERALELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  Tuesday, April 18, 1972  Page 13
OLD'TBME
FLAVOR
L.-.m.i-.y v.it*
PABST BREWING COMPANY  Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, III., Newark, N.J., U>s Angeles. Cal., Pabst, Ga. 31069
dnderthistfo hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shadyside
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
CoH
422-7900
Womtn'i Medical Assistance
a non-prof it organization
SCOTTY'S
Ant rants AVtNUt 
7*11 KNN AVtNUt 4 town i. MOUTH Of UNA
OPEN TO 
SERVE YOV 24 MOVHS A DAY
Between Classes 
or at Study Break
Czech, film maker JAN KADAR . . .
... His film:.
 SHOP ON MAIN STREET e
(Acad. Award, '65, will be screened) 
Mr. Kadar will be present for dis
cussion. Wed., April 19  8 pm 
Carnegie Lecture Hail. Ticikets: $1.50 
Students: $1. INFO: 621-7300, x-360
INDEPENDENT FLM-MAKER:
? ROBERT NELSON
FILMS AND DISCUSSION
April 24 at 8:30 pm in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Tickets: $1.50. Students: 
$1.00. Information: 621*7300, x-360.
WHY START...!?! 
6 AT THE BOTTOM!
when you can start EXECUTIVE ROW 
as a pilot or navigator in the . . .
. . . UNITED STATES AIR FORCE . . .
? good pay
? steady advancement
? personal satisfaction
, . . ARE JUST A FEW BENCRTS . . . 
open to you as a commisioned offi
cer on the Aerospace team. For Hie 
details: .. . CONTACT:
SGT. DICK ALLEN ... AT 644-5837

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 18, 1972
Pa. campaignMuskie
Jon Manon
Ushered in by a blustery winter-tinged 
wind, presidential aspirant Edmund Muskie 
came to town last Friday (April 7) to offic
ially open his Pittsburgh campaign head
quarters and in so doing to kick off his 
Pennsylvania primary drive. Upwards of 
one hundred supporters and agents of the 
local media crammed into the 311 4th 
Street headquarters, while several hundred 
more contended with the weather and with 
the tenders of the door, unsuccessfully as
serting their legitimacy to be a part of the 
bustle within.
Inside of the crowded-to-sweating head
quarters front office, local political work
ers rubbed shoulders and filled the waiting 
with ward shop talk, (Typically 
heard:Were going to win but it will be a 
tough fight. And throughout the patter an 
uncomfortable strain of Hed better do 
well in Pennsylvania or else it looks bad 
sentiment). Numerous placards punctuated 
the crowd (among them a cryptic message 
read POWIEDZ JAKJEST EDZIU and 
another, blunter, Only Muskie Can Beat 
Nixon). The red, white and blue bunting, 
tried and true decor of American politics, 
hung in profusion, and on each lapel of the 
predominantly white, predominantly mid
dle aged assemblage rested the simple 
Muskie button.
A scant fifteen minutes past the noon
time appointed hour, to the excited cries 
of hes coming the Edmund Muskie mo
torcade pulled to a stop in front of the 
headquarters. Amid orchestrated but en
thusiastic cheering and turmoil, the tall 
Senator from Maine made his wending way 
towards the microphones within the 
first-floor office, pausing repeatedly to 
shake the many pro-offered hands, a con
cerned smile telling each supporter that 
Edmund Muskie was sincerely glad for his
Dr. Mead pointed out the abundance of 
short sighted plans for highways, airports, 
cities and almost all other facilities, and the 
marked lack of success people have had in 
predicting the rapidity with which techni
cal innovations are achieved, and said that 
these are not productive of confidence on 
the part of those who will soon inherit the 
results of those plans. Among adults, jobs 
which dehumanize people by associating 
them with machines in machine like ways, 
and the resistance of labor unions and 
others to the elimination of inhuman jobs 
through automation, both mean that 
peoples minds and spirits are not free to 
invent constructive, humane occupations.
Further, Dr. Mead criticized the nuclear 
family structure common in indusctrialized 
societies as first, not a traditional family 
structure at all, but a 25 year old design for 
family mobility for the convenience of in
dustry; and secondly, as a fragmented, in
secure way of life. Traditional families 
associate three or more generations of close 
and distant relations into clans that, along 
with unrelated neighbors, provide support 
and security in times of stress as well as in 
every day activities.
Dr. Mead indicated that the source of 
inspiration for creative solutions to these 
problems is awareness of the seriousness of 
our situation, and of the fact that we have 
only one small, fragile earth on which to 
rely for survival. She cited humanitys vigourous defense of territory and culture 
throughout the ages as evidence that 
peoples best qualities are brought out in 
protecting their source of livelihood and 
identity. In this regard, she found photos 
of earth taken from the moon to be
begins
confidence in him.
Congressman Norvel Reese officially 
welcomed Mr. Muskie to Pennsylvania 
(Muskie Country) and extended Govern
or Shapps regrets that he was, felled by a 
head cold, unable to be there. Another 
preliminary saw local Muskie boosters pres
ent the Senator with a token of the Steel 
Citys winning ways, a baseball bat, in the 
hopes that he will have similar good for
tune. Accepting which, Muskie addressed 
those gathered inside and those outside via 
loudspeakers, noting that they all want to 
change the leadership, and the politics of 
this country, so that they represent the real 
views of the American people. Referring 
to his disappointing fourth place showing 
in the Wisconsin primary, the Senator told 
a light anecdote about a friend, who doing 
poorly academically, had taken heart in the 
fact that he had placed highest among 
those who failed!; and added that the 
way to react to a setback is to win the next 
one.
Commending the truly representational 
diversity of the party delegates pledged to 
support him from Allegheny County, Mus
kie noted with pleasure that among the 
prospective delegates to the Democratic 
convention were both young and old, black 
and white, men and women, students, and 
labor representatives. Said Senator Muskie: 
As I read the mood of our people in this 
country, what the people are looking for is 
not the victory of any particular candidate, 
but a peoples victory. He was careful to 
specify that he doesnt see a loss of faith in 
America:That is not to say that they 
dont believe in our country, or its capacity 
for decency, but it is to say that they 
understand that at this moment the coun
try is not responsible to the real needs of 
the people.
Democratic hopeful Muskie then pro
ceeded to a stern denunciation of the perNASAs most valuable contribution to the 
creative solution of our problems, because 
they clearly indicate that the single sphere 
of earth is all we have.In answer to the 
newsmens questions, Dr. Mead opined:
Increased technology is essential to our 
survival. We cant feed the expanding bil
lions of people without it.
The movement to return to the land and 
become self-sufficient as farmers is a con
structive spiritual response for some 
people, but cannot make a substantial con
tribution to our survival in the long run. 
She hopes that once people have their 
heads together they will return to full par
ticipation in problem solving for the whole 
earth.
On politics - a country gets the leader
ship it deserves.
On sex - the sexual revolution happened 
after WWI with the widespread introduct
ion of the automobile and the consequent 
end to constant chaperoning: Whats hap
pening now is simply that we are becoming 
willing to talk about what weve been do
ing for 50 years. However, honesty is 
enough to upset elders and make the news
formance of the Nixon Administration:I 
think most Americans want a new presi
dent next November, and this has nothing 
to do with Richard Nixon as a person 
(chuckles from the audience)-maybe-but it 
has a great deal to do with his leadership. 
Semator Muskie charged that President 
Nixon has failed to honor his campaign 
promises of 1968, observing that Nixons 
secret plan to end the war in SOutheast 
Asia is still a secret four years later and 
will always remain a secret to the 20,000 
young Americans who have died in Viet
nam since Nixon made that promise.
Secondly, Muskie chided the President 
for his economic measures, dubbing them 
collectively an economic miracle that we 
could well do without. He concluded that 
it is the war which generated this infla
tion, and bemoaned the fact that the cost 
of Mr. Nixons inflation is felt first by 
those who can least afford it, the burden 
falling especially heavily upon returned ser
vicemen who cant find employment.
Finally, Senator Muskie blamed Presi
dent Nixon for further dividing Americans, 
one against the other. He promised to 
bring us together, but, contended Muskie, 
he personally has never seen a time of 
worse domestic disunity. He praised Ameri
ca for being traditionally a melting pot 
society: Thats the lesson of American 
history and its time we demonstrate it 
again. Muskie reminisced that his father, a 
Polish imigrant to America, had benefitted 
from her great magic of opportunity, 
and the Senator was greeted with sustained 
applause when he proclaimed that Its about time we used that magic again.
Explaining his candidacy, Edmund Mus
kie said that he came to Pittsburgh not so 
much as a political candidate byt rather as 
a man, an American, a citizen looking for 
people to help me change this country and
Cont.
media think that a sexual revolution has 
occured.
Dr. Mead was asked if there are any 
biological differences between the occupa
tions that men and women are suited for. 
She said that aside from the obvious differ
ence that only women can bear and bi east 
feed children, there are none. However, in 
most societies those occupations that are 
regardeas male are those that involve great 
spurts of group muscular effort alternating 
with long periods of laziness, whereas wo
men generally perform tasks which involve 
long periods of steady work at a lower level 
of muscular effort.
On equality of the sexes, Dr. Mead 
stated that it is not sufficient to allow 
women equal employment opportunities if 
the rest of the culture remains as it it. 
Women cannot take advantage of the great
er opportunities if men do not take their 
share of responsibility for the home. Also, 
job opportunitiesare a short sighted goal if 
not coupled with a commitment to a 
change in the culture which determines 
that the jobs are meaningless and in
humane.
to put it on the road again. I seek the 
presidancy because I want my country, to 
be the country my father came here to 
find. He thanked Governor Shapp and all 
of those present who were working in his 
behalf, observing the crucial role that they 
played, and promising to try to live up to 
their expectations. (Ill see you again in 
my mind.) His speech notable absent of 
references to the myriad other Democratic 
hopefuls, the Senator from Maine ex
plained that what were fighting for is not 
Ed Muskie but a peoples victory in Ameri
ca. Concluding his oration with the meas
ured eloquence that he displayed through
out, Senator Muskie asserted that What 
gives us strength as a country is what is in 
our hearts and our minds about what are 
the goals of our people.
And then the local publicity photo
graphs were taken with thrilled Pitts
burghers posing next to the candidate, and 
Senator Muskie slowly made his hand-shak
ing way out of the campaign headquarters. 
Said one onlooker, He was eloquent. 
Said another, a young female supporter, 
He made me cry when he was talking 
about the veterans. As the Senator edged 
towards his waiting automobile, several 
campaign workers initiated a We want 
Muskie cheer. Robust for several seconds, 
the chant died quickly on the cold after
noon air.
Shapp Cont.
of the state-related universities Pitt, Penn 
State and Temple. And now, I am pleased 
to ask the Senate to confirm student trus
tees for the state-owned college boards.
Shapp challenged the students to do 
their part in contributing to the continuing 
development of higher education in Penn
sylvania.
You are the beneficiaries of the pres
ent educational system. You know its good 
points and its bad points, Shapp said. 
Therefore, you are in an excellent posi
tion to give advice and counsel on these 
boards, which all too often, have acted like 
they were running closed corporations.
These young people will now have the 
opportunity to begin the dialog which is so 
necessary at our educational institutions, 
Shapp said. They will provide the boards 
of trustees with input and viewpoints 
which are many times ignored or over
looked.
The students were chosen from a group 
of 54 students recommended by their peers 
and interviewed by Secretary of Education 
John C. Pittenger and members of the Gov
ernors staff.
JOTS PIZZA ;
b bow delivering 
Comport Ottr Fricti I
t V PIZZA________ 
1 ir pizza_______im k
toi  .29 and JO 
| SANDWICH!**
[ HOAGIE ________ 1E NAM__________M 1
MEAT BAIL_______JO
HOT SAUSAGf---------JO .
[ CHECSC-----------------J* j
, SODAS-----------------J* |
ZMteanr Chorgt to IX n*.* j
A JM A 
CALL 21-3233
I 9CXAr JN
ETCHINGS
MARIO REYES
ARTS AND CRAFTS EXHIBIT SPRING CARNIVAL
A Winner of 1968, 70 Exhibit at Mexico's A
Salon De La Plastica Mexicans
To buy directly from the artist via friendstudent, PLEASE ... 
write: BOX 154, C-M U call: 621-8548
Margaret Mead,
