www.thetartan.org9 September 2002Volume 97, Issue 2
Bills, and Inflation
Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since 1906TARTAN
Security shifts 
in response to 
sexual assault
Chief added to CMU lawsuit, 
allegations of discrimination
Judge considers plaintiffs request for extension to negotiate
cy as being a cause of the racial ten
sions within the police department, 
stating that the decisions made by Vice 
President of Enrollment William 
Elliot, Human Resource Director 
Barbara Smith, Equal Opportunity 
Employment Compliance Officer 
Sanford Rivers and others were made 
so that CMU can achieve quota-like 
compliance with diversity5 considera
tions by packing low-skilled positions 
in departments such as the security 
and dining departments with AfricanAmerican employees, and thereby pay 
at least a numerical lip service to equal 
employment opportunities.
On July 23, 2002, the plaintiffs filed 
an amended complaint adding Creig 
Doyle, current chief of Campus Police, 
to the list of defendants. The suit 
states that after Doyle was hired, he 
and Mary Suber engaged in conduct 
amounting to retaliation against 
Budzik and Metz while Budzik and 
Metz were still employed by CMU. 
Moreover, it accuses Doyle of perpetu
ating the. hostilities rather than 
amending them, stating that Doyle 
disciplined Budzik in a disparate fash
ion and for reasons for which similarly 
situated officers who had not filed an 
action against CMU were not disci
plined. The suit also describes a hos
tile situation when Doyle tried to disci
pline Budzik in which Doyle 
screamed at Budzik, demeaned 
Budzik, deferred [sic] to her as missy, 
and claimed that she was insubordi
nate.
Current employee Sergeant 
William Ricci, however, enjoys workby Monica Datta
TAARANChN iReefad toRNaMby Jeannie Choi
UNCllwMRNsM
At 1 am, Sunday, August 25, a 
female student was sexually assault
ed at Gesling Stadium. City of 
Pittsburgh Police later said to The 
Tartan that the incident was a rape 
of the digits, which took place when 
a female student was returning home 
from a fraternity party. Police have 
not made an arrest, nor do they have 
any suspects.
We continue to work very closely, 
almost daily, with the Citys Sexual 
Assault Unit and are continuing addi
tional nighttime patrols around the 
stadium, West Wing, and Resnik 
Houses, said Creig Doyle, chief of 
Campus Police.
Doyle added that students have 
been very generous in expressing 
their concerns. Campus Police will, 
within the next two weeks, light the 
two spots most commonly identified 
as being in need of lighting: the 
Cartwright stairs from the Cut to the 
lower level of Doherty and the path 
from Morewood parking lot to 
Devonshire Road. Police have been 
answering questions and conducting 
crime prevention displays in the 
University Center. Over 200 students 
signed up to attend Rape Aggression 
Defense classes. In response to inter
est, police have scheduled three class
es this semester: September 25 and 
28, October 9 and 12, and October 23 
and 26. Police have also arranged 
several seminars for RAs and their 
residents as well as members of some 
University varsity sports teams.
Often someones tragedy can 
make other students aware of securi
ty and surroundings, Doyle said.
Police are also looking into a stadi
um lighting chart. There are already 
two safety lights on the south and 
southwest corners of the track, and 
police are looking for ways to better 
light the area. Six days after the 
assault, at roughly 1 am, a plain
clothes officer saw a female student 
take the same path traversed by the 
assault victim. Students and police 
would also like to light the lounge on 
the first floor of West Wing. Students 
living near the sororities and the 
Margaret Morrison housing complex 
would like to reopen the recentlyclosed computer cluster. They are 
often forced to cross campus at night 
to print papers.
The safety of our students and the 
security of the campus is a paramount 
concern for every member of this 
community, said Michael Murphy, 
dean of student affairs. It is clear to 
me that students are taking the mat
ter very seriously and  in typical 
Carnegie Mellon fashion  pulling 
together to be supportive and to keep 
one another safe.
Shuttle and escort services operate
Justice has been put on hold in the 
lawsuit against CMUs campus police, 
which accuses the department of 
being riddled with racial discrimina
tion and corruption. Deliberations 
have ceased, while both parties wait 
for the judge's decision to grant the 
plaintiffs request for an extension of 
time. The suit accuses various man
agers of the police department of fos
tering a hostile work environment due 
to the racial prejudice and hatred for 
Caucasians held specifically by 
Lieutenant Mary Suber and Detective 
Martin White, both of whom are 
African-American.
Former Chief of Police James 
LaPaglia died in August 2000 due to 
cardiac arrest. Gail Laf iglia, his wife, 
joined the suit against the University, 
Mary Suber, Martin White, and others 
after her husbands death. The suit 
claims Suber attempted to undermine 
LaPaglias leadership by interjecting 
the view that LaPaglia was prejudiced 
when it came to matters involving race 
and gender. The suit states, 
LaPaglias physical condition was cer
tainly aggravated by the decisions of 
CMUs management to sustain and 
promote the existence of a hostile 
work environment.
The original suit was filed in May 
2001 by former Sergeant Annie 
Budzik, former CMU Police adminis
trative assistant Karen Giran, former 
Campus Security Guard Janice Metz, 
and Gail LaPaglia.
The suit also blames University poliJeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Buzzing the tower
The Goodyear blimps, four in total, showed themselves Thursday afternoon, buzzing the Cathedral of Learning as 
part of the christening celebration for a new addition to the fleet, the Spirit of America.See LAWSUITS, page A5
President appointed to homeland security advisory council
ground in environmental issues may have con
tributed to his most recent national appoint
ment.
To this point in time, the councils primary 
activity has been to review the national strate
gy for homeland security which was released 
by the President in July, said Cohon. My 
background was useful in reviewing those 
parts of the strategy that dealt with nuclear 
waste and infrastructure systems, like water.
Council members are also working to orga
nize senior advisory committees within the 
Homeland Security Advisory Council (HSAC), 
explained Cohon.
Ive been asked to chair the senior advisory 
council for academia and policy research, he 
said.
Cohon says that he travels to Washington, 
D.C. approximately twice a month for council 
meetings, along with board meetings of the 
Heinz Center for Science, Economics, and the 
Environment and congressional meetings on 
behalf of Carnegie Mellon. Cohon does not feel 
that his new federal responsibilities will 
impinge upon his University duties.
Just as my membership on the HSAC was 
starting, my term as chairman of the Nuclear 
Waste Technical Review Board came to an
end, said Cohon.
Jeffrey Hunker, dean of the Heinz School, 
sees Cohons federal appointment not only as a 
testament to his leadership abilities but also to 
the worth of academia within the government.
Hunker, who spent eight years as a senior 
executive in the federal government, including 
a term as the senior director for critical infra
structure for the White House National 
Security Council before his 2001 appointment 
as dean, believes that universities can offer 
unique services to public officials.
Were not lobbyists, and were not a law 
firm, said Hunker. Were an impartial place 
that produces intellectual people that can do 
fundamental research and analysis that can be 
used in the political process.
Hunker would have preferred to see more 
members of academia placed on the council 
and said there is still an underweighting of 
the importance of research in government 
agencies.
Most of the time, academics dont have 
access to policy makers, said Kiron Skinner, a 
social and decision sciences professor who is 
currently serving on Secretary of Defense
the council, said Cohon. 
But it makes sense that 
the president of 
Carnegie Mellon, with 
its great strength in tech
nology, would be called 
on to serve in this capacby Sara Henneberger
uahNMRf,NRhg toRNaM
Carnegie Mellon once again stepped into the 
national spotlight with the appointment of 
University President Jared Cohon to the 
Presidents Homeland Security Advisory 
Council on June 11. Created by President 
George W. Bush in March 2002, the council is 
designed to provide federal advice on national 
security. The 16-member council endeavors to 
develop a comprehensive strategy to combat 
terrorism by improving cooperation between 
government agencies, offering technological 
advice, and collecting research about the feasi
bility of measures to detect, prevent, and 
recover from terrorist threats or attacks in the 
United States.
Members hail from a variety of back
grounds, including government, the private 
sector, nonprofit agencies, and public policy 
organizations. Cohon is the only representa
tive from academia to serve on the council. He 
did not comment on whether Carnegie 
Mellons Department of Defense contracts may 
have affected his council appointment.
I dont know why I was chosen to serve on
Cohon earned his doc
torate in civil engineer
ing from the 
Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology in 1973 
and spent much of his career teaching and 
researching environmental and water resource 
systems analysis. He has also been involved 
with energy facility siting and the evaluation 
of nuclear safety and waste management.
In January 1997, former President Bill 
Clinton appointed Cohon chair of the Nuclear 
Waste Technical Review Board. He continued 
to lead the congressional panel after becoming 
president of Carnegie Mellon in June 1997. In 
May 2002, he testified before the Senate 
Congressional Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources about the implications of 
nuclear waste storage at Yucca Mountain in 
Nevada. Cohon said that his strong backTARNC hieif
See SECURITY, page A4See COUNCIL, page A4
Endowment repositioned more aggressively in equitiesCampus commemorates 
September 11 anniversaryw.thear.n o.gr9nar.n to9nSopmnoh.
row and a University lecture series 
about September 11 throughout the 
week.
In addition, there will be a special 
art installation entitled 
Commemorating September 11: 
Art, Artists and the Community on 
display in the University Center, the 
Purnell Center for the Arts, and 
Baker Hall.
Featuring original work from 
CMU students, it will include visual 
art, music and written words that 
capture personal reactions to the 
years tragic events.
The exhibit will run from 
September 11 to 15.
Although there will be activities 
throughout the entire week,the bulk 
of the memorial activities will take 
place on Wednesday.
After the moment of silence, the 
New York City ceremonies will be 
televised in McConomy Auditorium 
and Kirr Commons from 8:47 to 
10:30 am. Beginning at 12:30 pm, 
the School of Music will hold a con
cert in the College of Fine Arts fea
turing works by Copeland, 
Beethoven, and Rodgers and 
Hammerstein. At the concert, Jim 
Daniels, professor of English and 
creative writing, will also read Us, 
Now, a poem he wrote last fall in 
honor of the Carnegie Mellon alum
ni who were killed in the terrorist 
attacks.
At 4:30 pm, Cohon will unveil and
by Erin Szeto
UNCllwMRNsM
Equities 67%No event since the Vietnam War 
has affected Americas landscape as 
September 11 has. Its been a year 
since terrorists hijacked four 
American airplanes. This week a 
campus and a nation remembers, 
and mourns.
Wednesday at 8:46 am, CMU will 
join the nation in a moment of 
silence, commemorating the instant 
the first hijacked plane careened 
into the north tower of the World 
Trade Center.
All University functions, includ
ing classes, will halt for one minute. 
CMU bagpipers will play music on 
the Cut and the Mall from 8:44 to 
8:46 am.
Carnegie Mellon will join the 
world to remember and to mourn 
the horrendous events of a year 
ago, said University President 
Jared Cohon, in a statement given to 
The Tartan. I was very proud of the 
ways in which our university com
munity responded last year. This 
year, [the campus is] again demon
strating an extraordinary sense of 
community.
Today, the College of Engineering 
will host a panel discussion on 
Running Toward Danger: Stories 
Behind the Breaking News of 9/11, 
a book by journalists who covered 
the attacks on America.
There will be a blood drive tomor
IUW U.S. capital mofkets*
Jeremy Canceko/Art Editor
Chief Investment Officer John Mazur stands next to a chart displaying the 
historical appreciation of stocks, bonds, and other investments. In hopes of 
increasing Carnegie Mellons endowment, the Board of Trustees has enact
ed a new investment policy which has increased equity 
investment by twenty percent. Having invested rather conservatively in the 
past, the University feels secure in its financial position and has decided 
to take on a far more aggressive strategy to accomplish its goal.
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
retaining value to high growth in an 
effort to bring the size of the 
Universitys endowment in line with 
those of its peers.
The University has taken an 
aggressive position in the equity mar
ket. Investment is made in both large, 
small, and international companies 
as well as emerging markets. The 
majority of the endowment invest
ments are made in US index funds, 
mutual funds that keep a portfolio of 
stocks designed to match the perfor
mance of the stock market as a whole. 
These index funds have been very 
weak, as they mirror the perforTHIS WEEK IN TAR TNCTNhby Nick Ennis
UNCllwMRNsM
Lesser freedoms for Americans
Columnists examine losses in civil 
liberties at the hands of the 
Supreme Court and the Bush 
Administration within the last year. 
Forum, A9
Pittsburgh Literature
Local author, boice-Terrl Allen, 
releases his latest novel, Janet Hurst, 
this week.
Pillbox, 12
I can understand their reasoning, 
but I hope it wont affect tuition, said 
first-year CIT student Casey 
Kunimura.
In the midst of a bear market on 
Wall Street, University officials have 
finished reallocating Carnegie 
Mellons endowment fund, favoring 
equities far more than in previous 
years.
Last November, the Board of 
Trustees approved a substantial 
change in its investment allocation 
policy, changing the focus from
Football madness
Tartans open the season with a con
vincing 31-9 victory over the 
Bethany Bison.
Sports, A14
Dining mishaps
A glitch in the dining system on 
campus lead to students with more 
food than they had originally 
banked on.
News, A5
See ENDOWMENT, page A4See EVENTS, page A5

---------------------------------------------------

A3THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
P&ge 
w.thear neog9r Sp.9mbh.r2m0hea
Weather
WorldWire
Iraq: US, Britain 
spreading lies
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)  Iraq 
denied reports saying it is trying to 
collect material for nuclear weapons 
and building up sites once targeted by 
UN inspectors, saying Sunday the 
claims were lies spread by the United 
States and Britain to justify an attack.
The denial came as President Bush 
has begun taking his case for possible 
military action against Iraq to his 
allies, meeting the day before with 
British Prime Minister Blair at Camp 
David and preparing to deliver a key 
speech at the United Nations this 
week.
Blair  the strongest voice in sup
port of Bush amid much European 
criticism  said Sunday he believed 
that those opposed to action would 
change their minds after seeing evi
dence of the threat that Iraqi leader 
Saddam Hussein allegedly poses.
Blair told Sky News Television that 
critics are asking sensible ques
tions, but said they can be con
vinced if they see the evidence.
Iraqi Vice President Taha Yassin 
Ramadan dismissed reports from 
recent days cited as evidence against 
Husseins government.
The head of a UN atomic weapons 
team said Friday that satellite photos 
show new construction at several 
sites linked to Husseins past nuclear 
efforts. And a US intelligence official 
said Saturday that Iraq has recently 
stepped up attempts to import indus
trial equipment that could be used to 
enrich uranium for use in nuclear 
weapons.
There is no such a thing, 
Ramadan told reporters when asked 
about both reports. They are telling 
lies and lies to make others believe 
them.
He said the United States and 
Britain were seeking an excuse to 
attack Iraq.
Welcoming Blair to Camp David on 
Saturday, Bush said the satellite 
images of the construction was 
enough to justify action against 
Hussein.
I dont know what more evidence 
we need, Bush said.
France, Germany, Russia, and 
China have all been outspoken oppo
nents of any unilateral US attack on 
Baghdad. Moscow said Sunday that 
such an attack would cause disorder 
in the Middle East and undermine 
international anti-terrorism efforts.
Iraq has come under pressure from 
Europe and Arab nations to accept 
UN weapons inspectors  barred for 
nearly four years  in hopes of defus
ing the crisis.
Scott Ritter, an American who was 
once on the inspections teams, visited 
Baghdad on Sunday, saying Iraq 
posed no threat and urging it to prove 
that by opening up to inspections.
Cooperation with inspectors would 
leave the United States standing 
alone in regards to war threats on 
Iraq and this is the best way to pre
vent the war, Ritter said on his third 
visit arranged by the Iraqi govern
ment since he resigned from the UN 
inspection team in 1998.
Secretary of State Colin Powell said 
Ritter was no longer in the intelli
gence chain.
Other members of the UN teams 
that investigated Iraqs weapons of 
mass destruction from 1991 to 1998 
have told the Associated Press that 
Iraq probably possesses large stock
piles of nerve agents, mustard gas, 
and anthrax.
They add that while the country 
does not have a nuclear bomb, it has 
the designs, equipment, and exper
tise to build one quickly if it were able 
to get enough weapons-grade urani
um or plutonium.
Russia vs. The 
Rest of the World
MOSCOW (AP)  Russias top 
chess players struggled Sunday in the 
first day of a tournament pitting them 
against international players collec
tively called The Rest of the World, 
with Russia trailing 11.5-8.5 after two 
rounds of play.
In the first round of play in the 
tournament, the Rest of the World 
won three of the ten games while 
Russia won one. The other games 
were draws.
The highlight of the round, played 
at the Kremlin, was Garry Kasparovs 
loss to Vassily Ivanchuk of Ukraine.
Ivanchuk chose one of the more 
obscure responses to Kasparovs 
favorite Najdorf Sicilian.
Kasparov sacrificed a pawn and 
had ample compensation until he 
exchanged queens, after which 
Ivanchuk took over and drove home 
the full point.
I was very short of time and could
nt calculate everything, Kasporov 
said of the end of the game.
Russias only victory in the first 
round came when Judit Polgar of 
Hungary blundered away a piece 
after being outmaneuvered by 
Alexander Grischuk in a long game.
NationWire
Sept. 11 in Kauai 
has extra meaning
HANAPEPE, Hawaii (AP)  
Florence Nakayama speaks of 
September 11 with reverence and 
sadness that dates back long before 
last years terrorist attacks.
Like the rest of the country, resi
dents here will pause to remember 
the tragic events last year on 
September 11, 2001. But they also 
will remember September 11, 1992, 
and Hurricane Inikis devastating 
sweep across Kauai, a lush island of 
green cliffs and pristine beaches at 
the United Statess westernmost tip.
Iniki, with winds up to 150 mph, 
left no part of Kauai untouched. It 
destroyed or damaged more than 
10,000 homes and businesses, killed 
five people and injured more than 
100 others. Damage was estimated at 
roughly $2 billion.
We had such memories already of 
that day on September 11th in 1992, 
and then to add to it what happened 
... in New York and Washington with 
the terrorist attacks, it was very hard 
to grasp, said then-Mayor JoAnn 
Yukimura, 52.
For hours, the storm raged across 
the island, snapping power lines, 
tearing roofs from homes, battering 
resorts, and shearing away trees.
The mountains, for years, looked 
like someone took a weed whacker to 
them, said Chris Cook, who worked 
for the county in 1992.
Mona Nicholas, who owned a 
Hawaiian sundries store in 
Hanapepe, vividly remembers being 
trapped in her home and watching 
the destruction.
We could see our neighbors house 
just lifting up, said Nicholas, 47. 
The whole thing was just lifting up 
from the bottom of the base, and a 
couple yards over it just smashed 
onto the ground.
Today, Cook is the editor of Kauais 
daily newspaper, ncs rCMosh mAeChoy
and has helped document the 
rebuilding.
Its recovered on the surface, but 
Iniki is something that will remain 
with the people who went through it 
for the rest of their lives, he said. 
Therein lies one of the biggest simi
larities between the two September 
11 events.
I think 9-11 brought back the 
memories of the hurricane. Even 
though it was so far away, we could 
relate to what the people in New York 
were going through.
NY and LA may 
feature TheraDate
NEW YORK (AP)  Undeterred by 
the qualms of many experts, a New 
York psychoanalyst is trying to create 
a dating service in which men and 
women would be matched up by peo
ple who know them intimately  
their therapists.
The service, which is signing up 
clients but not yet pairing them, is 
open only to people undergoing psy
chotherapy. In contrast to standard, 
self-composed dating pitches  
great sense of humor, loves the out
doors  clients of TheraDate will be 
assessed on such factors as obsessive
ness, defense mechanisms and ner
vous tics.
TheraDates creator, Frederick 
Levenson, is convinced such data, 
obtained from confidential question
naires completed by a clients thera
pist, can be the building blocks for 
compatible long-term relationships. 
He also believes that people in thera
py are attracted to others with similar 
experiences.
The smartest people are the ones 
in therapy, he said. Theyre wonder
ful people, very bright, very funny.
TheraDate would operate initially 
in New York City and Los Angeles, 
and possibly expand later  assum
ing enough clients enroll.
More than 200 people in each city 
have applied since March, but 
Levenson says matchmaking wont 
begin until the two pools of singles 
reach 750.
TUESDAY
Hi 89 
Lo 59
WEDNESDAY
Hi 75 
Lo 51
THURSDAYHi 74 
Lo 51
FRIDAY
Hi 78 
Lo 57
&
SATURDAY
Hi 78 
Lo 58
Quips quotes
bncs CMs NseeRhg eRsA Cho eRsA 
Na pCVs aNcsMA fseRsPs NcspEW
 Iraqi Vice President Taha 
Yassin Ramadan in response to 
allegations that Iraq is actively 
seeking out nuclear materials.
bUshCNaMA hsso Na ,hosMANCho 
m wRee haN CHHsDN C capseCho 
AsH,MRN fRee NcCN D,NA ADsHRCe 
RhNsMsANA Rh BCAcRhgNah CcsCo al 
Ncs AsH,MRN al Ncs TpsMRHCh DsaS
DesE m wRee haN CHHsDN C capseCho 
AsH,MRN fRee NcCN NRsA Ncs cChoA 
al NcRA CopRhRANMCNRah aM l,N,Ms 
CopRhRANMCNRahA Rh oslshoRhg 
a,M hCNRah CgCRhAN NsMMaMRAN 
CNNCHVAEW
 President Bush on Homeland 
Security on his weekly radio 
address
bBaMeo fCAVsNfCee RA shaMpa,A 
Cho Ncs gCD fsNwssh Ncs qEUE Cho 
Ncs waMeo RA gsNNRhg HeaAsM Cho 
HeaAsME ncCNOA Ncs paAN DaARNRPs 
NcRhg a, HCh HahHe,os lMap 
NcsAs HcCpDRahAcRDAEW
 Borislav Stankovic, FI BAs 
secretary general, upon witnessing 
a U.S. team full of NBA players 
lose not once but three times in 
the World Championships
bnMCgso AsspA Na gRPs ,A C 
Happah oshapRhCNaME Bcsh 
ahs c,MNA ws Cee c,MNE Bcsh Ncs 
CNNCHVso ishhAePChRCy wcsh 
Ncs CNNCHVso BCAcRhgNahy vEuEy 
Ncs CNNCHVso ,A CeeE W
 Rev. George C. Woodruff of 
the First African Methodist 
Episcopal Zion Church in San 
Francisco in recollection of 
September 11
bBcsh a, gsN a,M NCRe VRHVso 
eRVs NcCNy a, oahON lsse gaaoE 
Tho m oahON wChN Ncsp Na lsse 
gaaoE a,OMs haN A,DDaAso Na lsse 
gaao Cfa,N NcCNE -,N NcsAs g,A 
cCPs oahs sPsMNcRhg wsOPs 
CAVso Ncsp Na oa ARhHs wsOPs 
fssh csMsE ncsMsOA ha MsCAah laM 
ps Na lsse eRVs NcsOMs haN hawEW
 Ron Zook, first-year coach of 
the No. 6 Florida Gators after his 
team was routed by No.l Miami, 
41-16
bncsMs RA ha gaao MsCAah Na 
A,fksHN Ncs HahA,psMA al 
HChhCfRA Na Ncs CDDeRHCNRah al 
HMRpRhCe eCwE mh C lMss AaHRsN CA 
a,MAy RNOA ,D Na Ncs RhoRPRo,Ce Na 
osHRos wcsNcsM Na HahA,ps 
HChhCfRA aM haNE W
 Canadian Senator Pierre 
Nolin of the Progressive 
Conservative party on the legaliza
tion of marijuana in Canada
&kaad^ie(Mi
Peepholes create 
fuss at Colorado
(U-WIRE) BOULDER, Colo.  
Police are scrambling to deter
mine the cause of suspicious holes 
found in a second University of 
Colorado (CU) dormitory, hous
ing officials said Thursday.
During new routine safety 
inspections  implemented fol
lowing a recent peeping tom inci
dent at Farrand Hall  house
keepers in a dormitory discovered 
two holes in a housekeeping closet 
wall adjacent to a womens 
restroom and one hole in a house
keeping closet next to a mens 
restroom.
Housing employees reported 
the irregularities to their supervi
sor via email on August 30, but the 
supervisor was on vacation and 
CU Police were not notified of the 
incident until September 3.
One of the first substantial ele
ments of this case is to determine 
when the holes were drilled and 
then well look at people who were 
in that area during that time, said 
University police spokesman 
Lieutenant Tim McGraw.
We did a walk-through yester
day and are doing an additional 
one today, said Deb Coffin, CUs 
housing director.
Were taking this seriously and 
have notified students. Were 
keeping them updated if we hear 
new things.
On April 9, police arrested Michael 
Hall, a 29-year-old electrician who 
worked at a construction site in 
Farrand Hall, on suspicion of seconddegree burglary and unlawful sexual 
contact. Hall is accused of observing 
women showering in a first-floor 
bathroom.
CU Police said they dont believe 
the latest occurrence is related to the 
one in Farrand.
Were probably dealing with a dif
ferent suspect group than we had 
before because no construction is 
going on there, McGraw said.
The manner of investigation is 
pretty similar, but its a different case 
and different set of circumstances.
Coffin was hesitant to label the 
occurrence part of a growing trend.
Were always concerned about 
things related to student safety, but I 
dont know that Im ready to call it an 
absolute trend, she said.
In the first situation we found 
someone and theyre being addressed 
through the courts. We dont have 
any construction in Cheyenne 
Arapaho and were concerned that 
this is a new and different situation.
Hispanics graduate 
slower, says report
(U-WIRE) AUSTIN, Texas  
Hispanic students lag behind in 
attaining college degrees, but enroll 
at higher rates than most ethnic 
groups, according to a report 
released Thursday.
The report released by the Pew 
Hispanic Center, Latinos in Higher 
Education: Many Enroll, Too Few 
Graduate, showed that Hispanic
Newsjoumal
Previous Week
jjjpi Two teenage brothers, Alex 
and Derek King, were con
victed last Friday of murdering 
their father while he slept last 
November.
The brothers, ages 13 and 14, 
were also convicted of arson, hav
ing set the house on fire to cover 
up their crime.
They face 22 years to life in 
prison, and 30 years in prison for 
the arson conviction.
I President Hamid Karzai of 
^ Afghanistan was the target 
of an assassination attempt last 
Thursday in Kandahar.
The shooter, whom Afghan offi
cials suspect had links to the 
Taliban, was killed by Karzais US 
bodyguards.
US troops took over Karzais 
security in early July, immediately 
after the assassination of Abdul 
Qadir, the vice president of 
Afghanistan.
Looking Ahead
$Three hundred Senators and 
Representatives made the 
three hour train trip from 
Washington to New York City to 
convene a special session of 
Congress last Friday, September 6. 
The session was held in Lower 
Manhattans Federal Hall, where 
the United States Congress first 
met 213 years ago, and commem
orated the victims and heroes of 
September 11.
high school graduates are 
enrolling in college at a higher 
rate than whites, but arent com
pleting their college degrees.
Rick Fry, of the Pew Hispanic 
Center and author of the report, 
said the data revealed Hispanic 
students have difficulties finish
ing because they often are nontraditional students.
Factors that play a chief role 
in Hispanics not finishing bac
calaureate degrees are the 
unique ways in which they go to 
college, Fry said. Many attend 
school part-time rather than full
time, and more than any other 
group, Hispanics attend commu
nity colleges.
Data from the study revealed 
that 11 percent of Hispanic high 
school graduates enroll in col
lege. Of those, 34 percent enroll 
in two-year colleges, compared to 
26 percent of their white peers. 
Thirty-five percent of Hispanics 
enrolled in college attend parttime.
Teresa Sullivan, University of 
Texas-Austin vice president and 
dean of graduate studies, said 
while the increasing number of 
Hispanics attending college is 
encouraging, discovering that 
those students are less likely to 
get a degree is discouraging.
Another issue Hispanic stu
dents face is financing their edu
cations.
The total price tag of college is 
scary to most people, Sullivan 
said. Latinos have much higher 
rates of working while in college. 
Sometimes working can erode 
the value of a students educa
tion.
ire
PAT cuts 24-hour 
buses, raises fares
On September 1, Pittsburghs Port 
Authority cut service for several bus 
and trolley routes and increased fares 
for the second straight year. Citing 
the sluggish economy, an inadequate 
government subsidy, and the 
Authoritys first budget deficit in 
almost twenty years, Port Authority 
officials believe the changes will 
cause a nearly five percent drop in 
public transportation usage citywide. They see these measures, along 
with employee layoffs and a wage 
freeze, as the only practical answer to 
their financial distress.
We have a tremendous responsi
bility and obligation to provide the 
highest possible level of quality tran
sit service, said Port Authority Chief 
Executive Officer Paul Skoutelas. 
Thats why it troubles me to increase 
fares, reduce service, and reduce the 
size of our workforce.
Outraged bus and trolley riders 
believe they have a better solution. 
Led by a grassroots organization 
called Save Our Transit, customers 
of public transportation are demand
ing increased state funding for the 
transit system. Save Our Transit 
member Stephen Donahue said the 
responsiblity lies with the state to 
resolve the Port Authoritys monetary 
woes.
The state requires public transit 
systems to operate without a deficit, 
but then the state cuts funding for 
operations, said Donahue. Present 
state policy forces the Port Authority 
to balance its budget on the backs of 
its riders and employees through 
increased fares, service cuts, and lay
offs.
Riders using routes through the 
Oakland neighborhood will not be 
dramatically affected by the service 
cuts, though they may feel the cancel
lation of 24-hour service on all 
routes, including the 61C. The 67E 
Greensburg Pike route has cut its 
weekday afternoon peak trips; 67A 
provides Penn Avenue service during 
that time. The 100 West Busway no 
longer provides direct service to 
Oakland on Saturday and Sunday. 
Instead, customers must use the 33X 
route.
Bush makes visit 
to Neville Island
On Labor Day, September 2, 
President Bush arrived in Pittsburgh 
to attend a Brotherhood of 
Carpenters and Joiners union picnic 
at their headquarters on Neville 
Island. After touring a training pro
gram, he proceeded outside to 
address a crowd consisting of union 
members, and local and national 
politicians.
Bush spoke about several topics, 
including education, the national 
defense budget, prescription subsi
dies for the elderly, and eliminating 
corporate corruption.
Despite the current recession, Bush 
gave reasons to be positive about the 
future of our economy.
Interest rates are low. Inflation is 
low, and thats positive, he said. 
And weve got the best workers in 
the world.
President Bush will return to 
the Pittsburgh area this week to 
visit the memorial site of United 
Flight 93, the plane that crashed in 
Somerset County on September 11 
last year.
Bush will arrive two hours after the 
days memorial service, which should 
be attended by tens of thousands of 
people. The visit will be President 
Bushs first visit to the site, and his 
wife Lauras second.
gl Afghan president Hamid Karzai 
will attend ceremonies in the 
United States marking the anniver
sary of the September 11 attacks.
Karzai will also meet with 
President Bush to discuss the ongoing 
fight against terrorism, as well as the 
future of Afghanistan.
The Afghan leaders spokesman 
said that Karzai is also to address the 
United Nations assembly at its annual 
debate. Karzai has planned a Sunday 
departure from New York.
gg This Tuesday will be the prima
ry seasons biggest day, in which 
12 states and the District of Columbia 
will go to the polls to select their 
party candidates for gubernatorial 
and Congressional offices.
The New Hampshire Republican 
senate primary, a contest between 
Senator Bob Smith and 
Representative John Sununu, has 
been closely watched  Smiths seat 
is coveted by Senate Democrats.
Cardboard cops 
start patrolling
VILNIUS, Lithuania (AP)  
Lithuania this week launched a 
novel program to deal with a 
shortage of traffic police: Its cut 
new ones out of cardboard and 
propped them up on the side of 
streets to scare motorists into 
slowing down.
About 300 of the cardboard cops 
have been placed at road crossings 
near 90 schools in Vilnius, the cap
ital of this former Soviet Baltic 
republic, a spokeswoman for the 
municipality, Rasa Razgaitis, said 
Tuesday.
She said the program coincides 
with the start of school in the 
nation of 3.5 million people. The 
life-sized replicas, painted the 
turquoise of actual Lithuanian 
police uniforms, are expected to 
stay in service for several months.
Its the first project of its kind in 
the former Soviet Baltic states, 
which include Latvia and Estonia.
Denmark tried something simi
lar in the 1980s. But the program 
ran into trouble when many of the 
replicas of police sitting on motor
cycles were stolen, apparently for 
souvenirs.
The 35,000 litas ($10,000) of 
materials required to fashion the 
police impersonators were donat
ed by Kappa Packaging Baltics, a 
leading producer of boxes in this 
Baltic Sea coastal country.
Razgaitis said anecdotal evi
dence suggests the sight of the 
replicas, first deployed Monday, 
has, as hoped, caused drivers to hit 
their brakes.
She said Vilnius has made 
improving traffic safety a high pri
ority.
Lithuania registers among the 
highest road fatality rates in 
Europe, with over 700 people 
dying each year, or around 20 
deaths per 100,000 residents. The 
average annual rate in European 
Union countries is under 10 per 
100,000.
Speedy mystifies 
British detectives
According to newspapers, 
British detectives are looking into 
a peculiar case: a toy race car was 
found cruising along the ground at 
a resort near London  and it was 
being powered by a hamster.
Speedy, as the hamster has been 
nicknamed, was turned in to the 
authorities by passersby, after he 
was found powering the car with a 
treadmill.
It is a model hot rod racing car 
with large wheels at the back and 
small ones at the front, constable 
Quentin Allen said in the vCRe 
tdDMsAAy a British newspaper.
In the center is a typical ham
ster wheel you can buy at any pet 
shop... As the hamster went round 
and round it powered the car 
along at high speed.
For now, Speedy is being held in 
an animal shelter. The detectives 
hope that Speedys owner will 
reveal himself.

---------------------------------------------------

Crime & Incident
Deceptive Business Practices, 
8/27/02, 12:19 pm  A graduate 
student was the victim of a purported 
scam in her off-campus residence. An 
AT&T employee who came to do work 
at her house informed her that he had 
a cousin who installed phone lines. 
On August 17, the employee, rather 
than his cousin, stopped by, went 
right to her phone, pulled it from the 
jack, told her the job would be $150, 
and demanded immediate payment. 
She eventually got him to leave by 
giving him $115, the cash she had, 
and then reported the events to the 
police. AT&T apologized and is inves
tigating.
Disorderly Conduct, 8/31/02, 
1:40 am  Two females were appre
hended dancing topless on the patio 
of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity. The 
women reported that they had been 
encouraged to remove clothing. They 
also said they were paid $100 for the 
show. One woman was issued a cita
tion for underage consumption and 
both were issued citations for disor
derly conduct. Delta Tau Delta was 
issued an internal citation for disor
derly conduct, because of the nature 
of the incident and the large crowd 
that had gathered. Delta Tau Delta 
will be investigated for furnishing 
alcohol to minors.
Criminal Mischief, 8/31/02, 4:16
pm  According to a police report, 
an unknown person maliciously 
placed a 6' metal bread rack into the 
green automatic trash compactor 
located at the University Center dock 
area. The responding officer and the 
complainant were unable to dislodge 
the bread rack. A maintenance 
request will be submitted.
Alcohol Violation, 8/31/02, 
10:31 pm  During a fraternity 
patrol, an officer spotted a plastic cup 
on Delta Upsilons wall. Upon discov
ering alcohol in the cup, the officer 
issued an internal Citation for alcohol 
to the fraternity.
Physical Altercation, 9/1/02, 
12:18 am  Police officers patrolling 
the fraternity quad arrived at the 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon house following 
a fight between a Duquesne student 
and members of SAE. The Duquesne 
student claimed that a brother 
punched him and he defended him
self. An SAE alumni reported that the 
Duquesne student had begun the 
fight. Both combatants were told to 
see the magistrate if they wished a 
followup since the incident had not 
been witnessed by the police.
Liquor Laws, 9/1/02, 1:21 am 
A female, standing on the lawn of the 
Beta Theta Pi fraternity, was spotted 
with a canned beverage, which she 
threw into the bushes. The officer 
recognized the beverage as a 12 oz. 
can of Milwaukees Best before it was 
discarded. The female was issued a 
state citation for liquor law viola
tions.
Suspicious Person, 9/3/02, 
12:30 pm  A female resident of 
Cathedral Mansions was approached 
by a man near her residence who 
propositioned her to do a photo shoot 
that could include lingerie, wet Tshirts, and nude shots. The man was 
described as white male, 45-60 years 
of age, 5'10" or taller. A similar report 
was filed by Pittsburgh Police about 
an incident at Bayard and Dithridge 
Streets. The man was described as a 
white male, 50 years old, 6'2", 175 
lbs., gray shirt, blue work jeans, and 
boots.
Harassment, 9/4/02, 7:32 am  
A local alumnus of West Virginia 
University, and member of the Beta 
Theta Pi chapter there, reported that 
he feels that a string of incidents may 
be related to the CMU Betas, though 
he has no evidence. He said that his 
apartment has been burglarized four 
times in the past two years, and that 
he was almost run over by college-age 
males on bicycles from behind two 
times in the past week. He also said 
two of his cousins had been goaded 
into violence by strangers and that his 
niece had been propositioned by 
strangers. He said that past members 
of the WVU Betas might harbor 
resentment towards him for his par
ticipation in hazing and other acts of 
violence. A report was filed by CMU 
police to document his suspicions, 
despite lack of evidence.
b.2otr.n n0VVor9 lu7, nh Iu,
Thefts:
Suspicious persons:
Disorderly Conduct:
Criminal Attempts:
iCgsA y 5 uapDReso f 
Tim Bowen, Christopher Chung, 
Andrew Conklin, Andrew Johnson, 
Matt Rado
Campus
Vhttlu7o0, ,h0,mo m97p.thea ha uohmI
emu.
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
In the pits
Bob Johnson, of Fine Art Handling, takes a brief 
ventilation system for the artwork in April 2001.
work in his subterranean office. Johnson helped install a
speak? n
TN .J2 Cp ah UsDNspfsM 33y Ncs qhRNso UNCNsA wRee afAsMPs C papshN al AReshHs Rh MspspfMChHs al 
NcaAs eaAN Rh Ncs CNNCHVA al UsDNspfsM 33y Cho Ncs waMVsMA wca eaAN NcsRM eRPsA Rh Ncs MsAH,s sllaMNE
4,500 Aircraft in flight when the FAA ordered the first unplanned shutdown of US air
space in history.
2819 Number killed in the attacks on New York.
151 Minutes it took to clear US airspace.
90 Number of countries victims of the attacks came from.
2, Trips to the Middle East Colin Powell made before September 11.
I Trips to the Middle East Colin Powell made after September 11.
Morewood elevator 
out of commission
Students in Morewood B tower 
experienced some relief this week 
when their long out-of-service eleva
tor finally came back online. 
According to Morewood housefellow 
Wendy Hermann, the elevator origi
nally malfunctioned last spring. Since 
then, all elevators in Morewood A 
through D towers have been replaced. 
However, the new Morewood B eleva
tor has continued to draw complaints 
from residents. Four service calls, 
ranging from stuck doors to complete 
operational failure, have been made 
since the elevator went into operation 
on August 9, 2002.
Morewood B elevators problems 
have caused aggravation for students 
and Housing Services staff alike. 
Housing officials have said they have 
dealt with malfunctions in a speedy 
manner.
This particular elevator cab was 
installed over the summer, said 
Louis McCauley, assistant director for 
facilities. The issues that have been 
complained about have been 
addressed in the same day.
The elevators most recent prob
lem, which was discovered by the 
University's elevator contractor on 
September 4, was caused by a faulty 
door sensor. According to a student 
resident of Morewood B, the elevator 
didn't work before 4 pm on that day.
Some students have expressed 
frustration and concern about the 
unpredictable nature of the 
Morewood elevators.
I usually use A tower [elevator], 
because I don't trust [the B tower ele
vator], said Jennie Keinard, a firstyear bachelor of humanities and arts 
student.
Housing officials say there are cur
rently no known problems with the 
Morewood B elevator, which is under 
warranty for one year. "There have 
been few problems considering [the 
elevators] are new," said McCauley.
'Vandalism has been more of a prob-' 
lem."
As of Sunday morning, the B-Tower 
elevator was once again out of com
mission.
Senate conference 
highlights agenda
Student Body President Brian 
Namey declared his commitment to 
the safety and well-being of students 
during a meeting between university 
media outlets and Student Senate 
leadership last Friday.
Issues before Student Senate 
include a higher level of security on 
campus, September 11 memorial ser
vices, the creation of a recreational 
center in the University Center and a 
program to increase student voter 
turnout.
Student Senate has overseen an 
increased number of patrols on cam
pus as well as a reorganization of the 
shuttle and escort services. However, 
the Senate remains concerned about 
campus safety.
Lighting on campus is still not 
what we want it to be, said Namey.' 
Campus security was one of the 
planks in Namey's platform in securj 
ing the student body presidency last 
spring. In addition to an improved 
lighting system, the Senate would 
like students to be able to wait for 
escort services in campus buildings 
rather than at streetside stops.
Namey said he would like to see the 
installation of a recreation center on 
the second floor of the University 
Center.
"It is my hope that it will be here 
within the year," said Namey, adding 
that the success of the project is 
dependent upon garnering University 
funding.
Student Senate is also sponsoring a 
program entitled Get Out the Vote 
Week which will be an effort to 
encourage students to vote in state 
and federal elections. Election offi
cials will provide voter registration 
opportunities on campus, and several 
state and federal government offi
cials will offer lectures on the value of 
voting.
City Grime
0sDaMNA lMap Ncs uRN al iRNNAf,Mgc 
DaeRHs osDCMNpshNE
Oakland
Theft, 3454 Forbes (Wyndham 
Garden), 9/4, 0830 to 1600
Computer related equipment and 
cell phone taken from room.
Theft From Auto, 3750 Childs,
8/3 - 9/1
92 Lexus, Radio/CD/DVD player 
and headrest taken.
Shadyside
Burglary, 4720 Wallingford, 9/3, 
1000 to 1045
Entry made through first floor rear 
bedroom window, laptop computer 
taken.
Burglary, 323 Hailman, 9/4,
0700 to 2145
Rear door kicked in, Casio electron
ic piano and silver ring taken.
Theft, 905 Maryland, 8/31 to 
9/3
Bicycle removed from locker in 
building basement (secured build
ing).
Theft, 5608 Walnut, 9/3, 1830 to 
1940
Black nylon bag taken from locker
at gymnasium, lock was removed 
from locker.
Sq. Hill / Pt. Breeze / E. End
Burglary, 3224 Beechwood, 8/22 
to 9/3
Residence, entry through 2nd floor 
window, no pry marks, nightstand 
drawer taken with US coins and per
sonal items.
Burglary, 3036 Shady, 8/24 to 9/2
Residence, dining room window 
entry, items moved about, change 
and other items missing.
Burglary, 3190 Shady Ext, 9/3, 
1000 -1630
Residence, unlocked kitchen win
dow, US coins taken.
Burglary, 3220 Beechwood, 9/3 
1030 to 2000
Residence, entry through rear door 
(forced), items taken from bedroom.
Criminal Mischief, 425 E. End Ave, 
9/4,1000 to 1050
Forced rear kitchen door, bedroom 
drawers opened, nothing taken.
Criminal Mischief, 5411 Bartlett, 
8/29, 2230 to 8/30,1000 
94 Buick Century left front door lock 
removed.
Theft, 7723 Lyman, 8/28,1800 to 
8/29,0700
Gary Fisher mountain bike taken 
from front porch, credit cards and ID 
taken.
sohbm B iaph9mat Ve7pd
In the next issue of The Tartan, names of individuals arrested or cited in 
violation of state, city, or federal law will appear in news stories and the 
Crime & Incident (C&I). In respect of the Universitys alcohol amnesty poli
cy, The Tartan does not identify recipients of medical emergencies.
Unless otherwise noted, material appearing in C&I is based on the police 
blotter and incident reports.
All personal names and addresses of complainants and victims are omitted 
from the C&I. Locations of incidents, on or off campus, will appear when 
applicable. Ethnic descriptions and other personal characteristics are given 
only in the context of complete descriptions.
Not every incident that occurs appears in the report. Only three individu
als view the incident reports obtained from Campus Police: the Editor-in - 
Chief, the News Editor, and the staffwriter compiling the report.
Last week, The Tartans fact-checking process failed to properly identify an 
error on page A3 in the News section. We regret the occurrence. The Tartan 
corrects all known errors of fact. To report a mistake or request a clarifica
tion, please phone the Editor-in-Chief at (412) 268-2111 or send email to 
soRNaMRhHcRslzNcsNCMNChEaMgE
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
&kad^ide(^M
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(A 1 0\ 441 -4444I JL. ~~i I jC jl ie jC jl jl
_____http://www.shadysideinn.com____
THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9, 2002 A3


---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
Libertarian gubernatorial candidate tours PittsburghCMU settles 
lawsuit with 
art vandals
by Brad Grantz
toRNaM[Rh[ucRsl
An injunction filed by two students 
accusing the University of failing to hold 
fair judicial proceedings was resolved 
shortly before the case was to be heard 
in court on Monday, August 28. The res
olution means the end of University 
involvement in the Lobster Man saga. 
On March 2, four students were arrest
ed for breaking into and damaging the 
domicile of William Kofmehl III, then a 
senior art major, who was dressed as a 
lobster while building the structure 
next to Doherty Hall.
Seniors Jeremy Nearhoof and 
Christopher Pierce had filed an injunc
tion in the Court of Common Pleas hop
ing to stop the school from exacting 
sanctions against them related to the 
incident. In June, the University 
Committee on Discipline (UDC) sus
pended the students for the fall 2002 
semester. Provided the four students 
completed several UDC directives, they 
would be allowed to return to campus in 
the spring. The students appealed to 
William Elliot, vice president of enroll
ment, who agreed to use social suspen
sion in place of academic suspension 
for the fall semester. Several social sus
pension aspects were upheld in the set
tlement. Pierce and Nearhoof, respec
tively president and treasurer of Delta 
Upsilon, had to vacate their fraternity 
house and cannot socialize or partici
pate in any organization. Per the settle
ment agreement, the students will be 
permitted to dine on campus.
The settlement still requires the two 
students to enroll in an art class and 
complete 240 hours of community ser
vice. However, they can count the 56 
hours they had to complete per a magis
trates decision in the criminal case pro
ceedings held in mid-May. In addition to 
their dining privileges, the students will 
regain eligibility for work-study posi
tions.
Elliotts answer to the students 
appeal was sent on August 19, a week 
before the start of classes. The students 
legal brief stated that Elliotts decision 
came too late for the students to pursue 
alternative appeals. Nearhoof and 
Pierce told The Tartan they felt misled 
by Elliott during the appeal process. The 
lawsuit characterized the University's 
internal and private judicial system as 
unfair, prejudiced, and tainted. Elliott 
could not be reached for comment.
The June ruling handed down by the 
UDC was ultimately signed off by Dean 
of Student Affairs Michael Murphy. 
While he declined to discuss specifics of 
the case, in an email statement he 
wrote, In sum, I believe the process 
worked in this case, both originally and 
in the outcome on appeal. Framed by 
the sometimes competing values of 
integrity and compassion, the standards 
of the community were maintained in 
the end, and that is the most critical 
measure.
While a civil action by Kofmehl 
against the perpetrators still remains 
possible, the settlement closes the 
Universitys role in the highly publicized 
Lobster Man story. Kofmehl received a 
$1,000 undergraduate research grant, 
and plenty of publicity, for constructing 
a house made from scrap wood on the 
side of Doherty Hall. Kofmehl imposed 
a vow of silence upon himself so he 
could study the recording of his night
time utterances. Shortly after the March 
2 break-in, the University evicted 
Kofmehl from the structure, saying he 
was only permitted to nap in the tempo
rary quarters. On March 15, the city fire 
marshal ordered the school to disman
tle parts of the structure, deeming it a 
fire hazard. Kofmehl had hoped that the 
building would be the site of lectures 
and performance art when he finished 
work there.
Gesling rape 
brings review
SECURITY, from page A1
on their regular schedules, and the 
administration encourages their use. A 
new shuttle stop has been added at the 
Information Network Institute, located 
behind PNC Bank on Henry and Craig 
Streets. Last winter, the University 
employed full-time drivers instead of 
student volunteers. Safe Walk will start 
again in late September to walk stu
dents from 11 pm to 3 am. Housing cur
rently pays University Police every year 
for one uniformed security guard to 
patrol the Hill dorm area from 11 pm to 
7 am.
Soon after the late August assualt, 
Chief Doyle sent a message to the com
munity that addressed three other inci
dents involving sexual assault by 
strangers on campus. The first was a 
rape in the Peace Garden next to Hunt 
Library last October. The second and 
third incidents took place in February. 
One student was accosted and the other 
grabbed late at night.
The victim of the most recent sexual 
assault is in good condition and is 
attending classes.
Shes coping as well as anyone can in 
such a situation, said Chief Doyle.
by Cam Crews
UNCllwMRNsM
Doing drugs is not a crime, carrying con
cealed weapons increases community safety, 
and the government holds a monopoly on 
public schools that must be broken. Such 
views have grown popular enough to place 
Libertarians as the third largest political party 
in Pennsylvania and the nation. With 
November elections lurking, Libertarian Ken 
Krawchuk is riding his partys success and 
making a dark horse run for the state gover
nors office.
Krawchuk toured the Pittsburgh area this 
past week and addressed local residents over 
dinner at Dels Bar and Restaurant in 
Bloomfield on Thursday evening.
The event featured words from Dimitri 
Vassilaros, a libertarian contributor to the 
iRNNAf,Mgc nMRf,hs 0sPRswy Krawchuk, and 
Henry Haller, his running mate for lieutenant 
governor.
Vassilaros opened the evening by touting 
the grassroots success of the party. 30,000 
Libertarians are registered in Pennsylvania, 
with 71 elected to public office in the state. 
Vassilaros thanked the audience for their help 
in attaining the 21,000 signatures necessary to
COUNCIL, from page A1
Donald Rumsfelds Defense Policy Board. Im 
pleased that Carnegie Mellon has several 
memberships on government boards.
As one of two academics on the 31-member 
Defense Policy Board, Skinner noted that 
Cohons position on the council will bring him 
close interaction with policy makers and allow 
him a chance to present views not normally 
heard within government bureaucracy.
It puts him in close contact with key people 
in the [Bush] administration, said Skinner. 
He will bring them a perspective on what is 
going on in intellectual life.
Skinner explained that the nature of schol
arly work may prevent some members of acad
emia from moving into public work, but that 
the benefits of such a shift can be innumerfor him appear on the gubernatorial ballot. 
Krawchuks campaign support draws heavily 
upon the Libertarian view that drugs should 
be decriminalized.
Krawchuk promised to pardon every single 
non-violent drug offender.
One-third of all incarcerated people are in 
jail for drug-related crimes. Krawchuk criti
cized this statistic with a pop reference, saying 
people were locked up for smoking a joint 
and watching the Simpsons when the man 
came knocking.
Clearing prisons of drug-related crimes 
would ease the burden upon the overcrowded 
prison systems. Krawchuk offered reassur
ances that his drug policy does not imply a soft 
stance upon crime. Citing that 95 percent of 
crime is committed by five percent of crimi
nals, Krawchuk said he would end parole for 
all violent criminals.
Its insane to let these people back out. I 
will keep them in jail where they belong, said 
Krawchuk.
Haller reassured the audience that if elected 
to office, he and Krawchuk would end the 
racist drug war currently in progress. Haller 
said that blacks are six to seven times more 
likely to go to jail for a drug-related offense. 
Prior to September 11, 750,000 arrests were 
made during 2001 for drug-related crimes
able.
Most academics do solitary research. 
When were able to make the bridge from 
academia to public policy, we have an oppor
tunity to serve both our university and our 
country, said Skinner.
Skinner is conducting research at the 
Hoover Institute at Stanford University this 
semester and travels to Washington, D.C. reg
ularly for board meetings. She credits her 
experiences teaching and her interactions 
with academic colleagues for the unique view
point she brings to the board.
My own academic experience has been 
useful, said Skinner. [The board members] 
are not hearing the same kinds of arguments 
that I am.
Members of the campus organization Zi 
Activism believe that academics have a special
while only one arrest was made on grounds of 
terrorism. Haller says this is a sign the coun
trys priorities are out of order.
I dont want to pay room and board for pot 
smokers, said Haller. Libertarians view drug 
related offenses as medical rather than crimi
nal issues. Krawchuk acknowledged the diffi
culty under his proposed system of pardons in 
assuring that drug addicts receive the medical 
attention that they may need. But the current 
criminal process for dealing with drug offend
ers is harmful, he says.
Right now, [drug addicts] are not getting 
medical attention. Theyre getting criminal 
attention, said Krawchuk. If you were 
addicted, would you go to a cop and say, 
Excuse me, Im addicted to heroin? 
Krawchuk proposes a tax policy on marijua
na, which would effectively legalize the sub
stance and raise money to fund public pro
grams.
This added revenue will be of critical impor
tance for state funding. He also plans to abol
ish the state income tax, which has been in 
effect for eight years.
-We need to get the government out of peo
ples lives, said Krawchuk.
He promises to veto all proposed tax 
increases.
Libertarians argue that guns improve safety
responsibility when serving on government 
committees. Zi representatives met with 
Cohon at the end of August to discuss his role 
on the council and to voice their belief that 
Cohon should use his new position to effect 
positive change within the council.
We believe the Homeland Security appara
tus put in place by the Bush administration 
runs roughshod over civil liberties and acade
mic freedoms, said Stuart Anderson, a junior 
computer science major and member of Zi. 
Anderson contends that institutes of higher 
learning traditionally support both academic 
and personal freedoms and that as the sole 
member of academia on the council, Cohon 
should express such a standpoint.
If the members of the council fail to pub
licly voice their concerns about issues such as 
visa delay or denial, [racial] profiling, intimiand that gun ownership is an unquestionable 
right guaranteed by the second amendment to 
the Constitution. According to Krawchuk, 
ownership of concealed weapons reduces 
crime and should be legal throughout the 
state with appropriate permits.
Some people say what Im calling for is the 
wild wild west, said Krawchuk. I bet you in 
this room tonight there are at least a dozen 
armed people and I feel safer because of it.
In his last bid for governor, in 1998, 
Krawchuk attained slightly over one percent of 
the vote and he is polling in at two percent this 
year, according to the Keystone Poll.
Im coming in under the radar like Jesse 
Ventura did, said Krawchuk.
At the conclusion of the evening, auto
graphed books and bumper stickers were auc
tioned off. Krawchuk even solicited requests 
for show tune renditions performed in a Daffy 
Duck voice to raise some additional funds.
Krawchuk has been trying to raise enough 
money to get his television advertisement out 
over the airwaves. The 30-second spot fea
tures South Park cartoon renditions of Fisher 
and Rendell, spoofing the similarities between 
Republicans and Democrats. To conserve 
money, Krawchuk is traveling the state via 
minivan with his wife in his bid for the gover
nors office.
dation, and roving wiretaps, then I fear the 
impression given will be that this council of 
experts assents to the entire apparatus, said 
Anderson. [Cohon] disagreed.
Saleh Waziruddin, a staff engineer and 
member of Zi, explained that the group hopes 
to compile a formal list of concerns with the 
Homeland Security Advisory Council and 
then encourage Cohon to speak publicly about 
them.
According to Anderson, Cohon has indicat
ed that he would be open to speaking to the 
campus community and to the public at large 
if it was appropriate.
Cohon has proven himself an informed and 
reasonable politician in the past. I have every 
hope he will continue that trend into the 
future, said Anderson.
In light of market conditions, University revises investment policy
10 year DOW
0)3I
O)cino
12000
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000iiiiijs!ifinisnii!iiiisiiii;iiiiniiiiii!inisiiiiiiii!iiiiiiinisiiiiii!ii!iiiiiiiiii!iiiinniiiiii;i;i
9/8/92 9/1/93 9/1/94 9/1/95 9/3/96 9/2/97 9/1/98 9/1/99 9/1/00 9/4/01 9/3/02
fadt
Jeremy Canceko/Art Editor
John Mazur regularly evaluates the performance of the Universitys endowment. In the last ten years the US stock market, represented by the Dow Jones Industrial 
average, has provided steady long-term profits to investors. However, this summer the market was battered by accounting scandals and worries about the stability 
of the American economy.
ENDOWMENT, from page A1
mance of the equity markets.
The Universitys Chief Investment 
Office (CIO) and Treasurer, John 
Mazur said the endowments expo
sure to the summers biggest news
makers like Enron, Worldcom, 
Xerox, and Tyco is through the index 
funds.
Since reaching a high in January 
2000, the Wilshire 5000, the broad
est measurement of the US equity' 
market, closed Friday, down 39 per
cent in the last 32 months.
Similarly, the endowments mar
ket value, which peaked at over 
$900 million around the same time, 
decreased to $671 million in June, 
the end of the Universitys fiscal 
year.
The funds value decreased fur
ther in the month of July to $627 
million, though the August numbers 
are expected to be positive, accord
ing to Mazur. University endow
ments are cash reserves used to sup
plement schools revenue streams 
through investment returns.
Mazur said that monitoring per
formance and evaluating alternative 
strategies is a continuous process. 
Last winter, the Investment 
Committee of the Board of Trustees, 
University officials and Wilshire 
Associates, Carnegie Mellons 
investment consultant, chose to 
reapportion the endowment. 
Wilshire Associates is an investment 
advisory company serving over 400 
institutions. Its assets total over $2.5 
trillion.
The new policy allots 80 percent 
to equities, 15 percent to bonds and 
five percent to hedge funds, subject
ing Carnegie Mellons endowment 
to much more short-term volatility. 
Previously, 67 percent was allocated 
to stocks, 15 percent to bonds and
five percent to hedge funds.
Hedge funds use high-risk tech
niques, such as borrowing money 
and selling short in an effort to 
make significant capital gains, while 
bonds involve much less risk. The 
University is also working to reenter 
the venture capital market, which, 
according to Mazur, is a long 
process.
Venture capital firms are very 
inefficient. Some will go bankrupt. 
We are spending time to find the 
best fund to enter, said Mazur.
Carnegie Mellon invests only in 
government-backed bonds and trea
sury notes.
It has no exposure to corporations 
through bonds. Such fixed-income 
investments typically have much 
smaller returns than equities, but 
are less volatile, even in tough 
times. US Government-backed 
bonds are the most secure.
It is important not 
to be too euphoric 
on the ups or 
despondent on the 
downs.... We must 
have a mature and 
disciplined view of 
the process.
 John Mazur
It is not worth going into aggres
sive bonds because the variation of 
returns amongst them is very 
small, said Mazur.
The ucMahRHes al ]RgcsM to,HCNRah
reported that University endow
ments valued between $500 million 
and $1 billion suffered most in 
2001.
The largest endowment funds 
benefit from so-called alternative 
investments like venture capital. 
Larry Goldstein said in the January 
25th edition of ncs ucMahRHesy So 
much of [alternative investments] is 
based on relationships. Its hard to 
get known to the right people.
Meanwhile, endowments valued 
under $500 million are more con
servatively invested in bonds and 
fixed-income markets.
Many of Carnegie Mellons peer 
institutions have endowments val
ued between four and eighteen bil
lion dollars. The University, howev
er, points out that Carnegie Mellon 
is a far younger university than 
many of its competitors, and so has
nt had the time to accumulate as 
much wealth.
Additionally, Carnegie Mellon 
decided to remove itself from ven
ture capital investments several 
years ago, according to Mazur.
As a result, the University did not 
benefit as other universities did dur
ing the Internet boom a few years 
ago. During that time Harvard 
Universitys endowment realized a 
gain of over 30 percent. According 
to the -Mawh vCRe swAy Harvards 
venture capital investments 
increased by over 400 percent in 
2000.
In these investments, money is 
made available for new companies 
to start operations. The risks 
involved with such an investment 
are very high.
Mazur also said that it is impossi
ble to time the market, and when 
one attempts to do so he or she gen
erally is unsuccessful. Carnegie 
Mellons withdrawal from the ven
ture capital market as an example 
was given as an example.
He was quick to point out that the 
endowments performance has been 
better than the benchmark, which is 
determined by combining the 
Wilshire 5000 and Lehmans 
Aggregate Bond Index according to 
the investment policy. Last year, the 
endowment was down almost seven 
percent, below the 5.2 percent aver
age loss by institutions with similar 
endowment values.
It is important not to be too 
euphoric on the ups and despondent 
on the downs.... We must have a 
mature and disciplined view of the 
process, said Mazur.
Endowment values for the latest 
fiscal year have not been compiled. 
However, in 2001, when Carnegie 
Mellons endowment decreased 
nine percent, Washington 
University in St. Louis experienced a 
decrease of nearly seven percent. In 
the same year Harvard watched as 
nearly $1 billion of its endowment 
value disappeared in the weak mar
ket. Carnegie Mellon is one of many 
universities that have witnessed a 
drop in endowment market value, 
indicated in the financial reports of 
the Universitys peers.
Investment performance is 
reviewed on a quarterly basis, but 
decisions are made on a 20-year 
horizon. It invests to meet current 
operations and reserves assets to 
meet future needs and growth aspi
rations.
The endowment accounts for only 
seven to eight percent of Carnegie 
Mellons operating budget. The 
Investment Committee, as well as 
the University administration, 
believes that potential equity 
returns far outweigh the risks 
involved in the stock market.
The downward trend in the mar
ket is not a prediction of the future, 
said Nick Kirby, a sophomore math
ematics student.
While the equity market and the 
value of the endowment have been 
down over the course of the last 
year, Mazur keeps a positive outlook 
on the Universitys portfolio. 
Because the endowment is an 
extremely long-term investment, 
market fluctuations, like the large 
drop over the summer, will not 
affect the endowment in the long 
run.
The University has all kinds of 
time. We are the ultimate long-term 
investor, said Mazur.
Carnegie Mellons administration 
is not anticipating any unusual 
impact on the operating budget 
because of the decline in the stock 
market according to Mazur. Unlike 
other universities, such as 
Dartmouth College and Alma 
College, the University has not had 
to significantly reduce its operating 
budget.
There is no reason for students to 
be concerned about program cuts or 
unusual tuition charges due to the 
short-term fluctuations in the value 
of the endowment, he said.
In addition to changing its invest
ment strategy, Kyle Fisher-Morabito, 
associate vice president for universi
ty advancement, said the University 
aims to enrich the endowment by 
decreasing the amount of the 
endowment used each year (the 
draw), and increasing donations to 
Carnegie Mellon. By next year only 
five percent of the endowment will 
be withdrawn for use in the operat
ing budget.
The University has been working 
for several years to decrease the 
draw, using only 5.1 percent this 
year and 5.5 percent the previous 
year. Because the draw is based on 
the average market value of the 
endowment over the three previous 
years, fluctuations in value from 
year to year do not affect the operat
ing budget much.
However, reducing the draw dur
ing a period that the endowment 
decreases in value for three or more 
years could have great conse
quences on the Universitys overall 
budget.
Morabito said that Carnegie 
Mellon operates with much tighter 
resources than its competitors, yet 
has managed to rapidly become one 
of the nations top research insti
tutes.
This highlights the strategic, 
entrepreneurial, and agile character 
Carnegie Mellon is known for, she 
said.
While the University says it does 
not expect to see any difficulties in 
meeting its needs in the near future, 
it continues to seek donations from 
alumni and other outside philan
thropists and corporations. In fact, 
these contributions have been able 
to offset the effect of the reduced 
draw.
Carnegie Mellon continues to live 
within its fiscal operating budget 
and reduce its level of long-term 
debt.
Cohon appointed to Homeland Security Advisory Council by Bush
N

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9,2002President holds Q&A session, focuses on safetyDining glitch gives 
students free foodMalaysians are currently undergoing 
background security checks conducted by 
the US State Department.
This is unfortunately a post-September
11 phenomenon, but the school has 
ensured the students that their places will 
be kept for the spring semester. This is all 
the school can do, said Cohon.
But closer to home, the president 
addressed complaints of rising food prices 
and poor food quality by explaining the 
non-profit nature of Dining Services.
We are not out to nickel and dime you 
to death. Our policy for dining and hous
ing is that they operate with a break-even 
policy, said Cohon.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy added that the proliferation of 
different vendors on campus has provided 
competition to provide students with the 
best value meals.
I do not have the exact numbers of how 
prices have increased, but I am confident 
in saying that food is better now than it 
was a year ago, said Cohon.
After ninety minutes of continuous 
questions and answers, Cohon thanked 
the students for their valuable feedback, 
and ended the meeting.
I think President Cohon did a good job 
with the questions. I feel he is quite in 
touch with the concerns of the average 
student, said Michael Sebetich, a student 
senator and senior in information sys
tems.
He covered the major issues on campus 
quite thoroughly. I just wish more stu
dents would attend these meetings, said 
Melanie Harris, a senior in chemical engi
neering.
dents to take responsibility for their own 
safety.
It is especially frustrating for us to see, 
six days after the indecent assault on 
August 25th, another female student 
walking alone on the track, at one in the 
morning, using the same route used by 
the previous victim, said Doyle.
Undercover personnel at the Stadium 
reported that the girl might have been 
intoxicated based on her unsteady gait, 
according to Doyle. Cohons presence on 
the otherwise non-academic HSAC also 
stirred inquiry from the crowd.
This is something good for Carnegie 
Mellon because it raises the profile of the 
school, said Cohon. The council dispens
es advice to President Bush through 
Homeland Security Advisor Tom Ridge 
and does not partake in policy formation, 
says Cohon.
Cohon is the only academic on the 
Homeland Security Council, and has been 
nominated to chair its Science and 
Technology Committee, to examine the 
impact of Science and Technology on the 
framework of homeland security. Cohon 
also noted he knew Tom Ridge from his 
governorship, but did not know why he 
had been specifically asked to sit on the 
Council.
Touching on another federal govern
ment issue, Cohon said that Carnegie 
Mellons perceived intimacy with the 
Republicans was born of the recent con
troversy involving Pittsburgh 
Supercomputing Center and Pennsylvania 
state Republicans. The Pittsburgh 
Supercomputing Center (PSC) had 
entered into a contract with the State
by Justin Ker
UNCllwRNsM
by Andrew Conklin
j,hRaM UNCllwMRNsMPresident Jared Cohon met with some 
forty students and faculty in Rangos Hall
2 last Thursday for an informal town hall 
meeting. The president commented on a 
range of campus issues including several 
violent crimes that have occurred in the 
past two semesters at CMU, his own 
appointment to the Homeland Security 
Advisory Council (HSAC), and the impli
cations of partisan research.
He also addressed more perennial com
plaints of skyrocketing campus food 
prices, declining food quality, and campus 
apathy. The sexual assault on August 25 
was the most pressing item on the agenda.
There were four major incidents last 
year, and the aggravated indecent assault 
at Gesling Stadium on August 25th, said 
Cohon. Technically it was not a rape 
because the student responded quickly 
and averted a rape.
Pennsylvania state law defines rape as 
intercourse, while aggravated indecent 
assault refers to any other type of penetra
tion.
Cohon also said that while there was 
currently no arrest, nor suspect in the 
case, the Carnegie Mellon police were 
working closely with the Citys Sexual 
Assault Unit. The schools response 
includes reviewing which areas on cam
pus need additional lighting and blue 
lights, which Cohon said would be com
pleted in a matter of days.
University Police Chief Creig Doyle, 
who was also in attendance, urged stu
Confusion spread last night throughout campus as 
cash registers at various campus vendors allowed stu
dents unlimited access to meal plan funds. At Skibo 
Coffeehouse, students making last-minute purchases 
with their DineXtra money before the end of the twoweek meal cycle were surprised to find their cards were 
worth much more than they had expected.
Peoples cards never stopped taking, said Seth 
Jones, the Skibo manager working during the incident. 
Students quickly discovered and exploited this glitch, 
paying for crates of water, sodas, and food with their 
DineXtra accounts without ever being rejected.
According to Jones, the University provides no 
instructions for an event such as this.
If anything, the system would shut down, said 
Jones. He explained that these funds would not be 
deducted from the next meal cycle, because there is a 
dead period from 2 am until 8 am on Sunday morning 
when meal plan accounts are not credited at all, after 
which the next meal cycle begins.
Similar incidents occurred in the University Centers 
the Original Hot Dog Shop, and at the Underground. 
According to Zach Miller, the manager on duty at the 
O, at about 8 pm on Sunday the shops cash register 
began to write the word offline on its display and 
receipts when students used their meal plans, and 
employees operating the machine could not access 
account data for the cardholders.
Once again, meal plan holders had limitless buying 
power.
Receipts recovered from the Underground during 
this time period also contain the word offline, imply
ing the same situation.
I just hope we get paid, said Miller.
Ekuctocu niuWiasEAu(kM 9tc-- 
ColDn addressed student questions in 
Ran ;os in the UC Thursday._____________
Rep iblican Party on how to best redistrict 
Pen: sylvania for the Republicans.
T e controversy arose because the state 
Repiblicans held the results of the 
reseirch as proprietary, while PSC had 
beli ved that the research to be in the 
pubic domain. One good thing about 
this is that it has led us to scrutinize and 
revi :w our research guidelines, to study 
hov\ we could have missed such a thing, 
said Cohon.
C)hon also said that sponsored 
rese irch at Carnegie Mellon has increased 
by i 7 percent since last year, representing 
a geat and unprecedented increase. He 
spei ulated that some of this research was 
seci rity related and a result of the 
Sep ember 11 terrorist attack.
Aiother result of the attacks was a 
del y of student visas to eleven Malaysian 
stu<ents. According to Cohon, the
Community remembers and mourns 9-11
Thats my way of mourning and pay
ing my respects.
And though the week will see a 
litany of events, some will find com
fort with loved ones.
I want to spend it with friends, 
said Stephen Roos, a sophomore elec
trical and computer engineering and 
bio-medical engineering major. 
Weve lost a lot, but we should also 
remember the things we do have 
right now.
According to Michael Murphy, 
dean of student affairs, the University 
considered cancelling classes but 
decided against it.
We did consider a variety of 
options, but as we talked to col
leagues at universities around the 
country and learned about the plan
ning in New York, we felt it was 
appropriate to continue with classes 
throughout the day, said Murphy.
Bank.
Im glad ihe school is having so 
many differeit events, said Ileana 
Hernandez, i sophomore business 
major. Beinj here at CMU, I feel kind 
of removed, i s if what happened still 
doesnt seem real.
Off campu:, Dr. Robert Page, a pro
fessor in the School of Music, will be 
conducting a special benefits concert 
in remembrance of September 11 and 
the victims o' Flight 93.
The Wedn;sday night concert will 
take place at Heinz Hall and feature 
the Pittsbtrgh Symphony and 
Mendellsohn choir.
Im lookiig forward to the bene
fits concert, said Leslie Good, a 
senior managerial economics stu
dent. I feel; lot of emotion through 
music, and I think it will be good for 
me to sit th :re, listen to the artists 
and think about those who were lost.
come together and reflect on the year 
of events, said Brian Namey, student 
body president. Weve all come to 
hold very strong opinions about 
whats been going on with the war 
and our interests overseas, but this 
will be a time for us to put those dif
ferences aside and find inspiration 
and comfort in the unity we'll have 
that night.
Several campus groups are also 
sponsoring their own September 11 
events.
The Asian Student Association will 
conduct a brief prayer service 
Wednesday morning, and Greek 
Council is organizing A Can for a 
Candle food drive that same day.
During the drive, students will 
receive a candle for the evening can
dlelight vigil in exchange for their 
canned food donation, which will be 
sent to the Greater Pittsburgh Food
EVENTS, from page A1
dedicate a plaque to memorialize the 
seven lost alumni.
The plaque will be located at the 
base of the tree planted along the Cut 
last October to remember the victims 
of the tragic events.
An important part of the day will 
be the unveiling, said Cohon. The 
Carnegie Mellon alumni who died ... 
their lives will always be remem
bered here.
In the evening, there will be a town 
meeting in McConomy to discuss 
responses to the attacks. At 9 pm, 
Student Government will host a can
dlelight vigil at the Fence, as it did 
last year, with the assistance of the 
brothers of Phi Beta Kappa, an acade
mic honors society.
I hope the vigil will provide an 
opportunity for our community to
ing in the campus police department.The work environment here 
is very good. I am very happy here 
and have no complaints, Ricci said. 
He believes that much of the 
improvement in the work environ
ment at the police office is due to 
Chief Doyles leadership.
Now, two years after the original 
suit was filed, deliberations have 
been put on hold, as both the plain
tiffs and the defendants wait to 
receive the judges decision on 
whether or not he will grant the 
plaintiffs request for additional 
time to make negotiations. 
According to Attorney Walter 
Deforest, who is representing the
ncs lCH,eN Cho ANCll al Ncs uaeesgs al ],pChRNRsA Cho UaHRCe UHRshHsA 
HahgMCN,eCNs Ncs laeeawRhg AN,oshNA laM NcsRM a,NANChoRhg CHCospRH 
DsMlaMpChHsA o,MRhg Ncs UDMRhg 11 AspsANsME
sr0.B9 io9n 
2002
Richard Fay* Teeravit Tharmmaphornphilas
Lauren Feldman (BHA) Buraskorn Torut
Justin Gerle* Mark Von Ohlen*
Elizabeth Glogowski* (SHS) Plato Wai*
Erika Gosttler* Kenneth Weaver* (SHS)
Kevin Gonzalez* Brandon Weber*
Emily Green Casandra Wittich* (SHS)
Crystal Hall Julie Wong
Jessica Hand* Malcolm Wyer
Kenan Hastor Cindy Yang* (SHS)
Saied Hedayati* Soyoung Yoo*
Stephanie Hepner
Brian Holland Sophomores
Harriet Hurworth Connie Amoroso*
Michael Hussey (SHS) Amanda Annick*
Selena Joe* Neil Ardeshna
Michael Jura* Lindsey Arroyo*
Katie Keil Carl Balibar* (SHS)
Kathryn Kilker Christopher Barley (BHA)
Rachel Kingery* Stephanie Bodnar*
Martin Kisselov Gregory Botta
Paul Klingman Eric Buhman
Marina Kobayashi Dwight Bussman
Kristin Lala* Darren Canady
Elissa Lapide* (SHS) Chiung-Kan Chen*
Christopher Laskow>ki* (SHS) Elissa Chin*
Dahlia Leibovich Jeannie Choi*
Joseph Leopold* (SHS) Suzanne Cook*
Stephanie Lesniak 1 Jeff Cullers*
Brian Levinthal Kathleen Davis
Shannon Lynch Erica Dibenedetto (BHA)
Joseph Manger Anne Dollard (SHS)
Sarah Marino* Alexander Dovgopoly* (SHS)
Leah Messina (BHA) Elizabeth Durfee*
Katharine Mincer* Nicholas Ennis
Sean Mintus Joslyn Erickson*
Mohd Yusno Mohd Yunos* (SHS) Katherine Fargo* (SHS)
Sylvia Mosser Oyinkansola Fasehun (BHA)
Brian Namey* Dominic Fattore*
Catherine Ng* Daniel Fernandez*
Virginia Ngai* Brendan Frederick*
Chad Paliotta Ryan Friedman
Demetrios Panagiotou* Colleen Gault* (SHS)
Aashish Patel Michael Gibbons* (SHS)
Neesha Patel* Daniel Gilman
Samata Patel* Brandon Greenland*
Gaelle Pierre* Paul Haag
Lisa Podgurski* (SHS) Kent Haina
Grace Raso Justin Hakuta
Emma Rehm* Rebecca Halperiri* (SHS)
Mark Ristaino Amanda Hamlin
Katherine Roberts Shanshan Han
Alejandro Ruiz Acevedo Whitney Hess*
Katrina Salazar* (SHS) James Hickman*
Eric Sceusi (SHS) Matthew Hockenberry*
Jennifer Schaupp Neil Hunt
Brian Schenker* Marguerite Kailman
Larissa Schyrokyj* Kyle Kirby*
Leland Scruby* Christina Lamano*
Sylvette Sein (BHA) Joann Lee*
Brian Smalley David Lin
Che So Joanna Lovering (BHA)
Amanda Spitalnik Jaclyn Madden*
James Stephenson Joshua Maszle (BHA)
Christina Strellec Maria Matuscak*
Maria Suarez (BHA) Mary McAshan* (SHS)
Alexander McAuley 
James McBride 
Heather McKnight (SHS) 
Richard McMahon*
Daniel Millner 
Julia Myers*
Stephanie Natale (BHA) 
Julie Nusser (BHA)
Nuelsi Pales (BHA) 
Rachel Papemick*
Karen Pelaez 
Monica Petrilli 
Alicia Plocha (BHA) 
Katherine Polit (BHA) 
Pradyut Pratap 
Christina Prested (SHS) 
Aaron Rankin 
Sameer Rathod 
Paul Richelmi*
Kristine Rodriguez 
Kevin Rohmann* (SHS) 
Alicia Sanderman 
Sarah Sandusky 
Anne Saverese (BHA) 
Anna Schardt* (SHS) 
Adam Schoenling 
Ujala Sehgal 
Paul Shatiock 
Nikhil Shetty
Treacy Silverstein* (SHS) 
Sarah Smith 
Emily Stewart 
Anne Talarico*
Ophir Tanz 
Adam Torres 
Nicole Velez*
Miriam Vidaver*
Dana Vinson 
Yanna Weisberg* (SHS) 
Heather Whitman* (SHS) 
Jessica Williams (SHS) 
Alexander Wolfe* 
Christopher Wong* (SHS) 
Ji Yoon
Nicole Yoskowitz*
Ann Yu* (SHS)
Jing Zhang*
Jason Zucker
Edmund Clebome 
Michael Croland*
Dana Crook (SHS)
Kathryn Dahl 
Vishal Daswani 
Joseph De Filippo 
Jonathan De Vries 
Jacob Denne*
Jason Divenere 
Erika Douglas*
Rachel Dougnac* (SHS) 
David Ebersole (SHS) 
Emily Evans*
Adam Fang* (SHS)
Rudy Feiler* (SHS)
Li Feng
Jennifer Ferris*
Andrew Fishbein 
Megan Flocken*
David Fries 
Michael Gelman*
Michael Graham 
Alissa Green 
Julia Harrison*
Zachary Hiwiller* 
Catherine Hofler* (SHS) 
Benjamin Hoxie 
Ounali Jaffery 
Soo Jung 
Kimberly Kettner 
Jasdeep Khaira (BHA) 
Dhananjay Khaitan 
Erin Korber (SHS)
Sarathi Kumar* (SHS) 
Elizabeth Kwak*
Kimberly Lackner 
Samuel Levin 
Kenny Lew*
Jiajun Lim 
Theresa Lin*
Amy Liu
Jeanne Loreftce (SHS) 
Adam Lovrovich*
Elizabeth McNicoi 
Rachel Messham 
Eric Monti* (SHS)
Suraj Mungara (BHA) 
Meghan Myers 
Vincent Ng*
Joanna Penfold*
Elizabeth Przbylski (BHA) 
Elyse Psulkowski*
J. Christopher Purvis* 
John Ramish*
Timothy Renshaw* 
Frances Ritchie 
Sunny Sawlani*
Brian Schmella*
Emily Sieg (SHS) 
Anubhav Sinha*
Cheuk Lam So*
Alexa Sorock
Sinduja Srinivasan* (SHS)
Sarah Steers*
Rachel Svinkelstin*
Veena Thomas*
William Tilburg* 
Lindsey Ward 
Laura Warne (BHA) 
Erin Weber (BHA) 
Geoffrey Willard* 
Dinah Winnick* (SHS) 
Jeremy Wortmari* 
Joshua Yearsley 
Gita Yitta 
Shou-Chin You 
Christopher Yu*
Elizabeth Majewski 
Jillian Mallozzi 
Marisa Manheim (BHA) 
Hiranya Maru 
Alina Mason 
Melissa McMahon 
Jesse Mendelsohn* 
Julia Moran*
Katrina Mott*
Polly Ng*
Christine Oh 
Lara Panis*
Jennifer Pellecchia 
David Platt*
Beth Powell (BHA) 
Vishwas Prabhakara 
Jennifer Resick*
Margo Rice 
John Rinderle* 
Shannon Scott*
Hsi Shen* 
l-Chen Shih*
Jung Shim 
Kim Smaczniak 
Sabrina Small 
Jay Snyder*
Marissa Staller*
James Steigerwald 
Jennifer Stofferahn 
Eric Story 
Joseph Tague 
Chauncey Tse 
Ron Urwongse*
Adam Vahanian*
Nina Verma 
Scott Wabnitz*
Eric West
Leslie Winters (BHA) 
Eric Wolfson (BHA) 
Matthew Wood 
Ho-Jin Yang*
Stefanie Yoon (BHA) 
Ivan Zyla*
Seniors
Mehreen Akhtar 
Mete Akin 
Michael Allen*
Keith Angstadt 
Andress Appoion (BHA) 
Rudy Ash 
Cooper Blake*
Christiana Bruchok 
Matthew Brunner*
Noah Cantwell 
Luis Carvajal*
Rickie Chang 
Christopher Chen 
Faith Cole 
James Cunningham 
Brooke Cutler 
Gregory Densmore 
Beatriz Diaz 
Adrienne Dybes (BHA) 
Asia Eaton*
Matthew Ewalt 
Michelle Fahey 
Jacob Feige (BHA)
Mary Ann Feusner (BHA) 
Andrea Georgiana (BHA) 
Kristin Gilmore*
Brett Gordon*
Lauren Grim 
Aseem Gupta*
Jennifer Habos*
Meghan Hajek 
Joshua Haiko (BHA) 
Marika Haritos 
Ish Harshawat 
Ryan Hennessy 
Jonathan Hoffman 
Margo Hofmann (BHA) 
Tanveer Hossain* 
Huntington Howe 
John Hursh 
Sangkyu Hwang* 
Clairesse Jauregui (BHA) 
Brigitte Joffe 
Raina Jones 
Polina Kats 
Paul Katz 
Aiko Kawakami 
Benjamin Kay*
Su Kim
Ben King (BHA) 
Cassandra Knight 
Myung-Sun Ko (BHA) 
Loralie Koerbel 
Heather Krogh 
Erin Lashbrook 
Pui Kit Lau 
Somi Lee (BHA)
Evan Leonard 
Ernest Lessenger 
Samuel Levitan*
Tyler Lewis 
Andrew Li*
Hode Lin*
David Liu 
Vanessa Lobue*
'with High Honors
Juniors
Sonni Abatta (BHA)
Corinne Allarde 
Jason Apple 
Eric Barker*
Danielle Bennett 
Daryl Book*
Katherine Bouwkamp*
Gillian Brigham*
Erika Burkhalter*
Kevin Carey 
Chin-Tmg Chen 
Clarence Cheung*
Wing Chu (SHS)
Edward Chuang*
Meagan Ciesla*
Melissa Clark (BHA)
Jeffrey Crilley*
Jen Crossan*
Maxim Dolgosheev* 
Christopher Doulgeris (BHA) 
Bethany Elder
Freshmen
Gaurika Anand* 
Rabindra Anketell* 
Elizabeth Asplund 
Adam Atkinson*
Julia Bamford (BHA) 
Reneeta Basu* (SHS) 
Gregory Battaglia 
Alexander Beck*
Lee Berkowitz* (SHS) 
Marla Bradford (SHS) 
Christopher Carroll* 
Alex Chae (SHS) 
Suneal Chandran 
Michael Cheung* 
Jerry Ching*
Victor Chu (SHS)
*

---------------------------------------------------

wnmTHETARTAN.org
The Dean, faculty, staff and students of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences extend best wishes for 
success 
Honors
this year's participants in the H&SS Senior 
iram, as they work toward completing their
senior thesis projects;
ei( Toc( fu^r lai<tM(<ca cuW &kvdAtiM lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
lM(< hcMxiMr Iu-kMvct(ku 9[tiv 
)cu(iaai hiuuittr (tkM[ 
e((MMiu $)cuJ hk^cMWr ni<ocu(<ca lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
/(aa(cu hM(^ocvr lu^a(o 
&oM(tkdoiM hAMxir \o[(<s\[<okak^[ 
lM(xc hAMxocatiMr l<kukv(< 
\itiM &cdMcM(iaakr \[<okak^[ 
Eiuu(-iM &Mkcur \[<okak^[ 
fu[ lkr lai<tM(<ca cuW &kvdAtiM lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
EAt(u /iMair \[<okak^[ 
TiX(u /kucair lu^a(os99 IutiMW(<(da(ucM[ 
lv(a[ /Miiur lu^a(o 
9iOct(cu cOMr lu^a(o 
Ei(<c cuWr lu^a(os\[<okak^[ 
9tidocu(i iduiMr nkWiMu #cu^Ac^is99 IutiMW(<(da(ucM[ 
Tct(i Ti(ar \[<okak^[snkWiMu #cu^Ac^i 
la(i #cvdar lu^a(o 
hM(cu #iX(utocar \[<okak^[ 
9icu n(utAr lu^a(o 
&oko ei( $H(u<iutJ L^r lai<tM(<ca cuW &kvdAtiM lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
Tco iu Uu^r lai<tM(<ca cuW &kvdAtiM lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
/ciaai \(iMMir \[<okak^[ 
#cM(c 9<o[Mkx[>r \[<okak^[ 
eii &o(cuK $TiaX(uJ 9iir lai<tM(<ca cuW &kvdAtiM lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
Siku^ cuu 9ikr &kvdAtiM 9<(iu<isl<kukv(< 
fWcv 9oitcxr \[<okak^[ 
fvcuWc 9d(tcau(xr \[<okak^[ 
Ecvi 9ti(^iMcaWr 9k<(ca cuW )i<((ku 9<(iu<i 
9caa[ 9ticMtr lu^a(o 
&oM(t(uc 9tMiaai<r (tkM[ 
( cu mcur lai<tM(<ca cuW &kvdAtiM lu^(uiiM(u^sl<kukv(< 
hAMcxkMu mkMAtr Iu-kMvct(ku 9[tivsl<kukv(< 
la(cOito ei(r lu^a(os99 IutiMW(<(da(ucM[
dSrVoao.0Sf 0JJVo20noh.9 tmrc Tuesday. October 1. 2002. J nh qxC 
9nmtr.n9 eoVV 9hh. n/rSr0PnrS pr 9rVr2nrt 09 .ogrS9onf .hao.rr9E e/h eoVV 
trgrVhJ Po.0V 0JJVo20noh.9 PhS 9mpao99oh. pf aotxU0.m0SfE 7WWqk
fWW(t(kuca (u-kMvct(kuR Iu-kMvct(ku cuW dMia(v(ucM[ cdda(<ct(ku dc<xit cMi 
cXc(acOai (u toi b99 f<cWiv(< fWX(kM[ &iutiMr hcxiM caa fyGB IutiMitiW 
tAWiut vc[ cak <kutc<t toi &cMui^(i niaaku mMAvcu 9<okacMo(d a(c(kuR )MB 
Ekido )iX(uiB fk<(cti )icu kb99B hcxiM caa fyG $ivc(a 
>WNY@cuWMiB<vABiWAr kM dokui Y8-611GJB UM <kuAat toi mMAvcu 9<okacMo(d 
\Mk^Mcv iO dc^iR BtMAvcuB^kX
Attention:
 Juniors
 4th year students in 5 year undergraduate programs
 Seniors who will graduate after 3 years of 
undergraduate study
Are you...
x in the upper 1/4 of your class?
x interested in a career in government or public service?
x a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the
10yye ar DyOW0o aTusd0y.uct bys2y0W
moi cMM[ 9B mMAvcu 9<okacMo(d FkAuWct(ku c itcOa(oiW O[ &ku^Mi (u 
19Gy c toi k--(<(ca -iWiMca vivkM(ca tk okukM toi 33MW \Mi(Wiut ktoi Uu(tiW 
9tctiB Iu dcMt(<AacMr toi mMAvcu FkAuWct(ku iYtka \Mi(Wiut mMAvcu o(^o 
Mi^cMW -kM dAOa(< iMX(<ir o( AuWiMtcuW(u^ k^kXiMuviutr cuW o( Wi(Mi tk 
iuocu<i iWA<ct(kuca kddkMtAu(t(i -kM caa fviM(<cuB
Iu to( d(M(tr toi mMAvcu FkAuWct(ku $toMkA^o toi mMAvcu 9<okacMo(d 
<kvdit(t(kuJ iix tk iu<kAMc^i cuW AddkMt tAWiut $cOkAt 9N diM [icMJ ok 
ocXi kAttcuW(u^ dktiut(ca -kM aicWiMo(d (u dAOa(< iMX(<iB e(uuiM Mi<i(Xi Ad 
tk $3NrNNN -kM tA(t(kur -iir Okkxr cuW MkkvsOkcMW $$3rNNN -kM toi iu(kM [icM 
kAuWiM^McWActi <okkar cuW Ad tk $2GrNNN (u ^McWActi <okka [dMicW kXiM 
tk kM toMii [icM k^McWActi tAW[]JB
vor

---------------------------------------------------

Teach For Us!
Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
community extend their congratulations to the 
following students, who were initiated into 
Upsilon of Pennsylvania, Carnegie Mellon's 
chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, on Saturday, 
May 18, 2002.
Brianna T. Blaser 
Matthew R. Brake 
James G. Casazza 
Faith Anne Cole 
Zhou Dong 
Katherine Anna Dresler 
Melanie R. Eberhard 
Michelle M. Fahey 
Annika N. Fasnacht 
Mary Ann Feusner 
Mehmet Fidanboylu 
Christian J. Fidler 
Marika G. Haritos 
Ish Harshawat 
Eric David Heutchy 
Matthew L. Jacobs 
Matthew Paul Lanken 
Ernest W. Lessenger 
Janet R. Lorang 
Nathaniel P. Manista 
Alina M. Mason 
Kevin G. Milans 
Lara Kaiulani Panis 
David Wayne Platt 
Konstantine C. Prevas 
Srinivas Pullela 
Thomas P. Purdy 
Erin Reeve 
Jacob S. Richman 
Jeffrey Ian Sarnat 
Christoph H. Schmitt 
Jason Chong Wei See 
Christine M. Siverd 
Kim Noelle Smaczniak
Samuel C. Spiro 
Jennifer E. Stofferahn 
Alex Tang 
Daniel Shaw Ting 
Christopher M. Tremonte 
Christian P. Urrea 
Jane E. Valentine 
Nina Verma 
Ashley B. Wermine 
Xin Zhao\cMt-m(vi
(^o 9tcMt(u^ \c[
lY<iaaiut lYd(Miu<i
Call 412-687-4880 or email iiifb.pittsburgh@review.com
www.PrincetonReview.com / 800-2REVIEW
The Mellon College of Science Honors their Spring 2NN2 Deans List
Congratulations MCS Students! The faculty and staff of the Mellon College of Science are proud of your achievements.
MUlelwUsNe usURhsRuPalmer, Michael?Urrea, ChristianusURhsR & A,gNhUTURu?Silverstein, Treacy
Anderson, Ericka* Pfaendler, Krista?Wattf TerrynAcuUsuusAleNCu?Srinivasan, Sinduja
Anikanova, Yuliya* Pompeani, AudraWiltsee, KristinaAbeles, Peter?Balibar, Carl?Weaver, Kenneth
* Apeltsin, Leonard* Qu, HuaguangYang, Ruo ChuanBoonyatera, Sunya?Basu, Reneeta?Weisberg, Yanna
* Balu, Arthi? Ricou,JoanaBriselli, Jennifer?Berkowitz, Lee?Whitman, Heather
* Bitter, Ralph* Scudiere, SusangNTARgNTUsNe?Buchoff, MichaelBradford, MarlaWilliams, Jessica
* Bollinger, JessicaShah, SapnausURhsRu?Burke, ChristopherChae, Alex?Winnick, Dinah
Bonomo, Benjamin* Singer, Kathleen?Altner, DouglasClark, BryanChu, Victor?Wittich, Casandra
* Bretz, JamiesonSmith, AbigailAscarrunz, Jose?Dahl, CarlChu, Wing?Wong, Christopher
* Cackowski, Frank* Toma, DavidBaginski, Paul?Daniels, LynnCrook, Dana?Yang, Cindy
Chen, Caroline* Valas, Ruben?Blaser, Brianna?Dorando, JonathanDollard, Anne?Young, Margaret
* Chia, Hsin-Ee* Wermine, AshleyBolton, William?Ferrone, Kristine?Dougnac, Rachel?Yu, Ann
Chu, JessicaWestrup, JeniferChan, MingFrankiewicz, Joseph?Dovgopoly, Alexander
* Clavijo, Renato* Wiltrout, Mary EllenChoi, Suzie?Godick, JoshuaEbersole, DavidMNsARelCu lr usURhsR &
Contrera, PamelaWislo, ValerieCholapranee, Ellisa?Hahn, Michael?Fang, AdamNCTu
* De Jong, Deborah* Wu, Michael?Dong, ZhouHargrove, Henry?Fargo, Katherine?Agres, Kathleen
* Drill, Emily* Yuen, Dsu-WeiFeinberg, Seth?Hefferan, Christopher?Feiler, RudiHughes, Jennifer
* Dub, RachelGoldfield, MatthewHenriksen, Jeremy?Gault, Colleen?Marsh, Laura
* Ferozan, BuckysARgUuTCcGranatir, NathanielInderhees, Kevin?Gibbons, MichaelSvigals, Philip
* Fidler, Christian?Basuray, AshishHatnner, BradleyJacobs, Matthew?Glogowski, Elizabeth?Walch, Jeffrey
* Gandhi, Alpa*Biames, Marta?Howard, DavidKnapp, Scott?Halperin, Rebecca
* Hebert, Mindy?Cook, Marcy?Hunt, Warren?Lagattuta, David?Hofler, Catherine
Ho, EvaCooper, Beth?Kane, BenjaminLove, JeremyHussey, Michael
* Hocking, CarolineDu, LeiKats, AnatoliyMarkowitz, JaredKorber, Erin
* Hwang, Joonho*Flynn, Darin?Korenblit, Michelle?Osborne, Christopher?Kumar, Sarathiftamyb ebd spdtpaV
* Katzir, Lirona?Hosgood, H.?Leventhal, Dennis?Polyakov, Michael?Lapide, ElissaOnly students earning a quality
* Khan, Ziauddin*Lehman, Bethany?Mance, William?Purdy, Thomas?Laskowski, Christopherpoint average of at least 3.5 while
* Kim, GraceMarkley, Andrew?Park, Hyun?Schroeder, Christopher?Leopold, Josephcompleting a minimum of
Kisin, JuliaMayer, Sherry?Perkins, Rory?Valencia, MatthewLorefice, Jeanne36 factorable units are eligible for
Kleinbaum, DanielMelnichuk, AnnaPhillips, ToddZaroukian, Benjamin?McAshan, Marythe Deans List. Those earning a
* Liang, WinnieMillstone, JillPutzel, GregoryMcKnight, Heatherquaility point average of 3.75 are
* Lorenzo, Javier?Mitchell, Douglas?Raff, Paul,hfRseNCRf?Mohd Yunos, Mohd Yusnoeligible for the Deans List with
* Mantella, DomenicNoser, ChristopherRapp, Kimberly? Sharma, Deepak?Monti, EricHigh Honors (denoted by ?).
Mehta, NiyatiPark, MatthewRotella, Christopher?Podgurski, Lisa
* Meyers, AndrewRomac, MichaelSedlock, NicholasPrested, Christina
* Miller, Laura* Roman ini, DanteSilterra, Avi?Rohmann, Kevin
* Miller, Ronald* Schmitt, Christoph?Smolinsky, Adam?Salazar, Katrina
* Nguyen, Theresa?Siverd, ChristineValentine, JaneSceusi, Eric
Norton, Stephanie?Sun, Frank 
?Tam, Chi Hong
?Walsh, Samuel?Schardt, Anna 
Sieg, Emily
P3E

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
9 September &kaa&THE TARTANPage d^i
Corruption of UDC process 
exposed by Lobster Man case
r The four students punished for the repre
hensible and foolish destruction of William 
Kofmehl Ills research project learned that 
Carnegie Mellon will use any means necessary 
to uphold the University mission statement, 
which states in the first line that CMU will 
value artistic expression. Administrators 
have apparently ignored the statements sec
ond paragraph, which states the school will 
teach students the value of a commitment 
to...ethical behavior. Tacking on when con
venient might be appropriate since adminis
trators executed proceedings of questionable 
fairness this past summer.
When the University Committee on 
Discipline (UDC) failed to hold a fair and unbi
ased court, the responsibility of honesty fell to 
Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy and 
appeal officer William Elliott, vice president of 
enrollment. Sadly, neither individual 
addressed the procedural faults of the case. 
Not only was the UDC trial riddled with exam
ples of prejudice, but the trial and subsequent 
appeal egregiously violated printed policy.
The fate of the four students was decided by 
a committee, on which only two of the five 
members were students  at an institution 
where four out of five members are students. 
More disgraceful than the unbalanced com
mittee is that the student pool is essentially a 
list of whos who among student elites. The list 
is compiled by Student Life who then forwards 
it to Student Senate for additions and dele
tions. In the Lobster Man case, one student 
representative was the former student body 
president, Erin Fitzgerald, and both students 
were members of Greek Council.
The defendants charge that the school 
failed to include a fifth actor in the incident. 
Before the case went to trial, the student 
turned himself in. But he did not appear in the 
UDC trial with his fellow troublemakers. 
Complicating the integrity of the schools deci
sion is silence; the school refuses to comment 
on specifics of the case  let alone make any
thing about it known.
The defendants charge that the board also 
unfairly rejected nearly all of the 50 questions 
they submitted, which isnt necessarily 
unnerving, since the UDC may have found the 
defendants inquiries to be irrelevant. But the 
UDC trial was based entirely on the testimony 
of the responding police officer and his inci
dent report. Kofmehls statement to the board 
conflicted with the defendants. Kofmehl said
there were a dozen intruders, but the defen
dants said there were six. The case degraded 
into a war of words, resulting in the fourth 
charge against the students: the vague asser
tion of misrepresentation of information pre
sented during the hearing.
Especially disturbing is the bias of the sec
ond student member of the UDC board, Peter 
Schmidt. According to one of the defendants, 
Schmidt told the defendants advisor (respon
dents are permitted one advisior) that the 
board would exact lienency if the defendants 
would stop lying. Schmidt wouldnt comment, 
citing the confidentiality of the proceedings.
During the appeal process, the respondents 
requested that Elliott review the hearing 
tapes. In accordance with UDC guidelines, the 
four defendants agreed to pay the costs of the 
transcription. University policy says that they 
were in their rights to request a transcript to 
find a gross error in procedural processes. It 
doesnt even matter that the school wouldnt 
have permitted Ncsp to review the transcripts. 
Elliott told them he wouldnt authorize tran
scription because it wasnt necessary.
The case dragged on for three months. 
Elliott's decision to swap academic suspension 
with social suspension put the students' acad
emic careers in jeopardy. It's only slightly reas
suring for the student body that the school 
reached an agreeable settlement with the two 
students who filed suit against the University.
Still, the school fails to acknowledge the 
inherent bias in the UDC. Student Life director 
Renee Camerlengo called the process educa
tional, not legal. Punishment may have 
included a research paper on community 
diversity and the taking of an art class, but the 
discipline included payment of restitution and 
loss income that Kofmehl suffered.
Perhaps the most offensive aspect is that 
whatever the UDC ruling, it can be unilateral
ly overruled by Murphy. In spring 2001, 
Murphy alone affected the outcome of discplinary action against Phi Kappa Theta when he 
decided to ignore the second of two Phi Kappa 
Theta UDC rulings. There is no doubt that 
Murphy is a fair individual, possessing an 
exemplary reputation as an advocate for stu
dent interests. But entrusting so much power 
to one person creates a precarious system of 
justice. And the underlying issue is whether a 
process that allows for Machiavellian decision
making has a place on a campus that teaches 
ethical behavior.
Forced Port Authority service 
cuts wont protect night owls
Due to service cuts and fare increases that 
Allegheny Countys Port Authority Transit 
(PAT) enacted on September 1, anyone in 
Pittsburgh who wants to use the public buses 
must be careful not to get stuck without a ride 
home at night. By cutting all eight of its 24- 
hour bus routes, PAT not only inconveniences 
late-night and pre-dawn travelers, but also 
detracts from the already few safe methods for 
students to travel at night. The cutbacks, the 
result of a meager state subsidy, will inevitably 
require some students to brave poorly lit 
streets, leaving them more vulnerable to crime 
at night. In addition, the increase from $1.60 
to $1.75 for one-way adult fare could trouble 
some who have relied on public transportation 
to make daily commutes.
The most striking part of the cutbacks is the 
elimination of overnight bus routes. Many stu
dents frequently use some of these routes, 
such as the 61C, to get to Squirrel Hill for late 
night trips to Eat 'n Park, to go to the movie 
theater, or to avoid a drunken car ride home at 
night. With the elimination of all-night ser
vices and a six percent reduction in total ser
vice, such trips will be impeded severely.
Some who rely on public transport for work 
are reconsidering how they travel through the 
city, since the service is not as convenient and 
affordable as it once was. These are clearly 
unfavorable circumstances for PAT, which is 
prepared for a five percent decline in ridership, according to PAT spokesman Bob Grove, 
in yesterdays nMRf,hs[0sPRswE
People who rely on the bus to get to work
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, xChCgRhg toRNaM
ANDREW JOHNSON, swA toRNaM 
MICHAEL CROLAND, GaM,p toRNaM 
TRISTAN HOFFMANN, UDaMNA toRNaM 
JOHN DAVIN, UHRshHs : nsHchaeag toRNaM 
EMMA REHM, iReefad toRNaM 
JASON REED, uapRHA toRNaM 
MEAGAN CIESLA, vaAARsM toRNaM 
JEFF CULLERS, icaNa toRNaM 
JEREMY CANCEKO, TMN toRNaM 
JASON SUROVY, IheRhs toRNaM 
JOY LEE, ToPsMNRARhg xChCgsM 
MARK RAU, iMao,HNRah xChCgsM 
ERIC FONG, UANspA xChCgsM
JENNIFER LIU, -,ARhsAA xChCgsM
AMY TSAO, UDsHRCe iMaksHNA xChCgsM 
KRISTIN LALA, isMAahhse xChCgsM 
JULIE WATT, uaD xChCgsM 
BETTY KIM, vCMVMaap xChCgsM 
ALEX MESEGUER, TAANE UsRE : nsHcE toRNaM 
MONICA DATTA, TAANE iReefad toRNaM 
CHERYL TOMBLIN, TAANE iReefad toRNaM 
MATT MEURER, TAANE icaNa toRNaM 
NEAL SHYAM, TAANE iMao,HNRah xChCgsM
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Matt Brun, Sriram Gollapalli,
Sara Henneberger, Balaji Sarpeshkar
are not the only ones who will have their 
options limited by the changes in the system. 
An already busy circuit, the 28X airport flyer, 
cut one if its scheduled departures. Several 
other routes also cut Saturdays and Sundays 
altogether from the bus schedule, limiting 
travel options, especially to those who reside 
further from major transit routes.
To combat the effect these cuts will have on 
student safety, the University should expand 
the hours of the shuttle service. 
Administrators should also consider altering 
late night routes to more effectively transfer 
students between neighborhoods. The 
University must rush the hiring and training of 
new Escort and shuttle employees for the 
understaffed department.
PAT needed to make cuts because it must 
operate within a specified budget and without 
funding increases from the state. Such a busi
ness-oriented explanation of the changes is 
sensible  PAT must stay within its means, 
like any other business or organization. But 
late-night risk to students and the inconve
nience imposed on the bus-riding community 
cannot be accepted. Yet local authorities have 
little planned in response.
Funding for mass transit must be more fair
ly distributed by the Legislatures highway 
hawks. By cutting services and increasing 
rates to the eighth highest city bus fare in the 
nation, Port Authority is being forced to com
promise its purpose, which is to see that every
one has the opportunity to move about 
Pittsburgh as inexpensively for a decent price.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906
EDITORIAL BOARD
BRADLEY GRANTZ 
toRNaM[Rh[ucRsl
EiMiv[ &cu<ixksfMt lW(tkMLetters to the Editor
Splendid reporting on fish abuse
Editor:
Bravo to Michael Croland for his article detailing the horrific 
treatment given to the live goldfish awarded as prizes at the Spring 
Carnival (Helpless fish tortured, microwaved, trashed v. 96, i. 25 
4/29/02). It is sickening that people would treat any living beings 
this way.
The 750,000 members of People for the Ethical Treatment of 
Animals applaud VAL (Voices for Animal Liberation) for their rescue 
efforts that helped some of the fish, and hope that they will succeed 
in banning the use of animals for entertainment at Pitt and CMU.
Carla Bennett
Senior Writer, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
Accusations of cheating offensive
Editor:
I am appalled at an April 2002 issue of The Tartan (Cheating: 
should we trust the code? v. 96, i. 25 4/29/02). In the article about 
cheating, [author] Ish Harshawat quoted an anonymous student on 
a new breed of cheater. He described something called the 
Singaporean V:
...where the two smartest students sit at the front of a class with 
students flanking them on either side up to four levels, forming a tri
angular shape. The idea is for students to be able to look over each 
other's shoulders and disseminate correct answers for exam ques
tions.
As a student equally concerned with these issues, the description
read to me as: Singaporeans are cheaters.
The misinformation did have its effect. At one final examination 
in McConomy Auditorium, about a week after the issues circula
tion, I overheard a group of students joking about the Singaporean 
V, that Singaporeans were brilliant to come up with the idea.
I am Singaporean and I have never heard of the Singaporean V. 
I am curious as to the terms origin; it is a dangerously broad term, 
broaching on libel. I am not alone, as the article spawned close to 
thirty emails in the next few hours from the CMU Singaporean stu
dents mailing list expressing anger and disgust. While I understand 
that it is a quote and not a direct opinion of The Tartan staff, the arti
cle could have carried out its point just as well without labeling the 
method as Singaporean, as it is clearly untrue.
A Tartan staff member was asked about the quote and if anyone 
has verified its accuracy; she simply said the information was confi
dential.
I am sure that there is no rule against printing that  if ncs sw 
aMV nRpsA or another professional, established newspaper were to 
print something similar, they could probably get away with it. But 
The Tartan is a student newspaper that caters primarily to members 
of a small, very diverse university, and one expects tact and sensi
tivity towards fellow students. By publishing that quote, the paper 
has upset and hurt the reputation of the third largest group of inter
national students on campus.
I sincerely hope that future issues of The Tartan newspaper will be 
more mindful of the accuracy and usage of their information.
Sylvia Arifin
Senior, Business Administration
[.toRNaMOA haNs isM a,M aMgChR8CNRahOA HahANRN,NRahy bmhlaMpCNRah 
gRPsh Na C pspfsM al ncs nCMNCh9A ANCll ,hosM Ncs HahoRNRah al HahlRS
oshNRCeRN pC haN fs AcCMso wRNc Ch DsMAahEW TooRNRahCeey Ncs PsMCHS
RN al Ncs 6,aNs wCA HaMMafaMCNso f AsPsMCe oRllsMshN MseRCfes Aa,MHsA J
CMU ignores classical education as library suffers
Monica Datta
uahARosM wcCN a, cCPs Rh Ncs ApCeesAN 
HcaAsh eRfMCME T HapDCh al Ncs wRAsAN Cho 
wRNNRsAN psh NcCN Ha,eo fs DRHVso a,N al Cee 
HRPRe Ha,hNMRsAy Rh C Nca,ACho sCMAy cCPs AsN 
Rh fsAN aMosM Ncs MsA,eNA al NcsRM esCMhRhg Cho 
wRAoapE ncs psh NcspAsePsA wsMs cRo Cho 
RhCHHsAARfesy AaeRNCMy RpDCNRshN al RhNsMM,DS
NRahy lshHso f sNR6,sNNs f,N Ncs Nca,gcN 
wcRHc Ncs oRo haN ,hHaPsM Na NcsRM faAap 
lMRsho RA csMs wMRNNsh a,N Rh NMChADCMshN 
waMoA Na ,Ay Ncs ANMChgsMA al ChaNcsM CgsE  
Ralph Waldo Emerson, Society and 
Solitude.
I came to Hunt Library with preconcep
tions. When I was in twelfth grade, I paid a 
quick visit to the Carnegie Mellon 
University representative at my schools col
lege fair. At the time I wanted to study phi
losophy and was ignorant of the 
Universitys calling, so I asked about the 
Philosophy Department. The admissions 
representative answered a bit snobbishly 
that Carnegie Mellon did not study the 
great philosophers, though some courses 
were indeed offered. Instead they had a 
program based in mathematics and com
puter science, called Logic and 
Computation. Surprised by the arrogant 
shrugging off of the entire historical canon
 East and West  I decided that I knew 
where I wasnt going to apply. Nevertheless, 
two months later, I submitted an applica
tion online, the day before the deadline.
Students do not come to Carnegie Mellon 
University for tradition or a classical educa
tion. Most come for innovation in the arts or 
technological fields. As researchers pro
duce information and original works rapid
ly, professors share their current technical 
innovations with students through journal 
articles and their own lectures. 
Development is so rapid that there is some
thing almost futile about library research. 
The University Library system had 981,479 
volumes in 2001, most of which were 
books. Somewhat comparable universities, 
though, likely bankrolled by more substan
tial grants than Andrew Carnegies 1919 
bequest (which actually provided most of 
the older rare books in the library, includ
ing an original Larousse and one of the orig
inal editions of Nicholas Copernicuss 1543 
book in which he presents his heliocentric 
theory) have more copious resources: Case 
Western Reserve University in Cleveland 
has 1.5 million volumes, and the University 
of Pennsylvania (though recognizably a 
much older and better-funded school) has
4.5 million. At CMU, just 
158,898 volumes circulated 
and 90,642 were used in 
the libraries. There were 
546,871 visitors to Hunt 
Library, and as the library 
webpage is the default 
homepage on every library 
computer and necessary for 
catalog searches and course 
reserve pages, the library 
cites 596,894 virtual vis
its.
When I first saw Hunt 
Library, between the archi
tectural marvel of the 
College of Fine Arts and the 
ugly insult to the humani
ties that is Baker Hall, I was 
unpleasantly startled. The 
decrepit architecture fol
lowed a naff aluminum 
structure commonly used in 
Communist bloc Europe.
Prominent in the aluminum 
industry, Mr. and Mrs. Roy 
A. Hunt donated $2.8 mil
lion for the Hunt Library in 
1960. They specified that 
the architect use aluminum 
wherever possible in the 
plans. A fine request  
architects use aluminum 
because it is flexible, strong, 
versatile, and reflects light.
However, the only thing Hunt Librarys 
structure seems to say to the rest of the 
equally regionally-influenced yellow-brick 
campus is that its the Universitys unwant
ed bastard stepchild. Instead of trying to 
improve this image, the University chooses 
to open foreign campuses like CMU-West 
and the one in Greece, and bestow money 
on departments that are already well-sup
ported by foundation grants. It is CMUs 
inferiority complex that forces it to do such 
things that only highlight the very DeVry 
on Steroids mentality it tries to obscure, as 
if it is ashamed of its history. Greedy for 
international attention, the University 
advertises itself during basketball matches 
and markets its CarnegieMellon logo like 
GlaxoSmithKline on TV programs, afraid it 
cannot lure people with what it already has: 
quality research and education.
For those who want to use the library, the 
experience is abominable. There is a com
mon room on the first floor that probably 
measures no more than 100 square feet and 
a study room on the third floor comprised 
of closely-placed cubicles. It uses conven
tional aluminum shelving that obscures 
windows. The librarys architecture is 
damning from the beginning  it creates a
9caa[ hkAtks\oktk 9tc--
Hunt Library often appears as a dilapidated mess of disorgani
zation, sort of like their priorities.
cold, uncomfortable environment. Students 
study there because there is almost nothing 
to distract them. It is like a sanatorium. 
Despite this, if you still need to use it, it may 
not be open when you expect it to be: it was 
closed most of Labor Day weekend.
If the University would like to legitimate
ly use the term world-class in a profligate, 
self-referential manner, it at the very least 
needs a library. The library is the center of 
learning on a university campus and shows 
that education neednt confine itself to the 
laboratory or studio, something less experi
mental schools have had to learn in reverse. 
The CMU library system also sponsors the 
Million Book Project, which plans to digi
tize one million volumes for public use. 
Some people ask if the Internet will make 
libraries obsolete, but people use libraries 
in a very different way from the way they 
use the Internet. The library is an important 
room of books, a sanctuary, and a place to 
gain knowledge. Without knowledge of 
what has existed, the University can only 
present itself as an eternal child.
xahRHC vCNNC (mdatta@J RA C k,hRaM DAS
Hcaeag pCkaME Ucs pC ANRee aws Ncs sw 
aMV i,feRH 'RfMCM AANsp LJE.1 laM C faaV 
eaAN Rh 3F.FE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9, 2002AgSeptember 11: The state of the country a year later
Cases threaten personal privacy, public education, and religion President takes advantage of vulnerability and cuts civil liberties
Adam C. Atkinson
This September 11, millions of Americans 
will once again pay homage to those who were 
killed in the attacks. It will be a time to mourn 
them, a time to unite as a nation, and a time to 
appreciate what we as a people are lucky 
enough to have. It will also be a time to reflect 
on how well weve done those things in the past 
year. In the days following the tragedy, it 
seemed that there was a silver lining to the 
dark cloud of September 11, as the United 
States collectively reaffirmed its values. But 
that communal movement was quickly eclipsed 
by a split among the people  a split between 
those willing to consider criticism of President 
Bush and the US in general, and those who 
were not. Unfortunately, for most of this past 
year, conventional wisdom was firmly on the 
side of the latter.
So often a signpost of the times, the Supreme 
Court has also been scrambling to embody 
firmly American values. Unfortunately, theyve 
been failing, making some of the most unAmerican decisions in their recent history. 
Aside from their lack of respect for the civil lib
erties of detainees, their decisions regarding 
long-controversial issues have been rather 
untimely in their disregard for the 
Constitution.
The war on drugs, a realm one wouldnt 
expect to become grounds for a constitutional 
crisis, has found its way into the show choirs, 
math bowl teams, and poetry slam clubs of our 
nations public high schools. This summer, the 
Supreme Court ruled that since student-ath'letes are tested for drugs, all students who 
compete against other schools are subject to 
random testing. The Court essentially admitted 
fhat American high school students have no 
right to privacy, which in the words of dissenter 
Ruth Bader Ginsberg, is no doubt capricious 
and perverse.
The Supreme Court wasnt finished with 
public schools. In Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 
the Court also ruled that parents of children in 
private schools could receive vouchers from 
the government to help pay for tuition. The 
majority blatantly ignored the fundamental 
American principle of separation of church and 
state. Seemingly saying Gotcha! they decided 
that vouchers would not qualify as government 
'ftinding since checks would be addressed to 
'parents and not the private schools.
^This childish loophole is an outrage, but little 
public outrage was spent on these decisions 
and was instead focused on some very sensible, 
'Snd very unpopular, decisions made by smaller 
courts. One very brave, very rare decision that 
will certainly be reversed was made by US 
District Court Judge Jed Rakoof. He ruled that 
the death penalty, still in practice in many 
states, was unconstitutional because of the 
large number of convicts who were exonerated 
after their executions. Its encouraging to see 
'judges interpreting laws in ways that make 
such good use of the Constitution, but its very 
disappointing to see how the public views such 
rulings.
I No decision was a better example of this than
the landmark ruling by the 9th Circuit Court, 
which found the inclusion of the words under 
God in the Pledge of Allegiance to be uncon
stitutional. The torrent of anger and piety that 
the public unleashed on that decision was sur
passed only by that directed at Osama bin 
Laden. Thousands wrote in to newspapers and 
television shows, complaining that of all times 
to make such an unpatriotic decision, this 
was the worst. However, the majority of 
Americans were considerably shortsighted in 
their rage. President Bush, the man in charge of 
representing and upholding the principles of 
the Constitution, called the ruling ridiculous. 
Many claimed that eliminating under God 
from the Pledge would result in the atheists 
winning, a case of minority rules. But the cir
cuit court ruling only leveled the playing field 
for atheists and polytheists, and it opened up
David M. Anderson
Shortly after September 11, President Bush 
stated in an address to Congress that the ter
rorists of A1 Qaida hate our freedoms  our 
freedom of religion, our freedom of speech, 
our freedom to vote and assemble and disagree 
with each other. Al Qaidas members hope 
that America grows fearful and retires from 
the world and its affairs so that the political 
and theological goals of bin Laden and other 
Wahhabi extremists can be accomplished. The 
Presidents prescription for defeating Al Qaida 
and other nebulous terrorist groups is for 
Americans not to fear, to continue spending on
expressing love of country to all citizens of 
America. Whats more American than that?
Central to the issue is the ability to put ones 
self in the place of another, and the majority of 
Americans proved that is an ability few in this 
nation possess.
Had the court ruled that the Pledge should 
read one nation, not under God, being told to 
simply sit and not take part in such a pledge 
would not satisfy me or any other God-loving 
American. It seems no one can understand the 
situation of atheists and polytheists in this 
country. It seems like an easy comparison to 
make, but in the US, matters of religion and 
patriotism are never easy.
Affirming our values was a crucial step 
towards overcoming the tragedy. The Court got 
that much right. But in striving to be as patriot
ic as possible, they lost sight of what makes us 
American. The decision in favor of vouchers 
lessens the governments responsibility to pro
vide its citizens with an education; as more 
high schools adopt random drug testing poli
cies, more students lose their rights to privacy. 
Both decisions undermine the American dream 
at a time when we should be celebrating the 
rights for which so many have fought and died. 
The decision by the 9th Circuit Court has 
already been stayed, and when it is overturned, 
it will be a twisted tribute to those who died on 
September 11.
ToCp uE TNVRhAah (aatkinso(a>) RA C AaDcaS
paMs HMsCNRPs wMRNRhg pCkaMy wRNc C pRhaM Rh lRep 
Cho psoRC AN,oRsAE
how things have changed
u.s. culture, politics, and courts 
a year into uhe post-9/11/01 era
n(<ocia 9<iMOcusfMt 9tc--
their credit cards, to travel by airplanes, and to 
live our daily lives as if September 11 was just 
like September 10. President Bush reminded us 
that we are in a fight for our principles, and 
our first responsibility is to live by them.
This nation has failed to live by its principles. 
The freedom that Al Qaida supposedly hates 
and that differentiates the United States from 
so much of the world is under siege. The attack 
has not been led by foreigners; instead it has 
been led by the present Administration. The 
President and his advisors are the greatest sin
gle threat to the civil liberties of the average 
American  not Al Qaida, the despots of Saudi 
Arabia, nor even Saddam Hussein.
This Administration, even before September 
11, had been hostile to the ideals of open and 
transparent democracy. An order was issued 
that hid Reagan Administration papers from 
the public. The law mandated the release of 
these papers. In the opening months of the cur
rent Administration, Attorney General John 
Ashcroft issued a legal opinion that stated all 
Freedom of Information Act requests would be 
denied if there was any legal argument against 
public knowledge. The previous position had 
been that information was to be released in all 
but the most extreme cases. The assault on 
public access began before September 11, and 
was justified by the Administrations penchant 
for the lies and unrealistic optimism needed to 
support its agenda.
However, September 11 greatly accelerated 
the deterioration of civil liberties. The Bush 
Administration has decided that the 
Constitutional restraints upon the executive
branch dont apply during wartime. The 
administration supports secret arrests, indefi
nite detentions, and the denial of citizens 
basic judicial rights, such as access to a lawyer 
and habeas corpus. All of these actions are, 
according to the administration, not subject to 
judicial review or Congressional oversight. 
This is an interesting proposition, for they have 
not justified why this war is different than the 
much greater struggles of the Civil War or 
World War II. In each case, there were 
Constitutional violations, such as the imposi
tion of martial law on Union states of suspect
ed loyalty, and the internment of JapaneseAmerican citizens, but the courts and Congress 
had access and the opportunity to change 
these policies.
President Bush, Vice-President Dick Cheney, 
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, and 
Attorney General Ashcroft have implemented 
policies that are scarily reminiscent of the tac
tics of most totalitarian regimes. For instance, 
the Justice Department now believes that 
attorney-client privilege does not always apply 
and that this decision should not be reviewable 
by the courts.
This position effectively strips any person in 
custody of the right to a competent defense of 
his rights. Additionally, the executive branch of 
the government maintains that it has the right 
to suspend the writ of habeas corpus whenever 
it decides that someone is an enemy combat
ant. For instance, Jose Padilla, the alleged 
dirty bomber who was arrested in Chicago, 
has been held in a naval brig in Charleston, 
South Carolina for the past four months with
out a charge being filed against him and with
out access to a lawyer. The administration 
states that he has no rights because it has 
determined such at its own will.
These are just some of the most hideous 
abuses of the concept and ideal of constitu
tional law committed by the Bush 
Administration. They see anyone who ques
tions these actions as traitors. Attorney 
General Ashcroft told several senators who 
questioned his policies that criticism of these 
draconian and illegal policies only gives 
ammunition to Americas enemies and pause 
to Americas friends. There have been several 
brave judges who have determined that the 
rule of law and not of man must be observed 
even during crisis, but again, the Bush 
Administration has either ignored these rul
ings on issues such as making public the names 
of detainees, or have delayed implementing 
the required reforms. All the while, the 
President has campaigned for Republican can
didates in order to pack the bench with judges 
who will not question this executive branch 
power grab.
If President Bushs analysis of the motiva
tions for attacking New York and the Pentagon 
is correct, Osama bin Laden has won. Today, 
our society is less free than it was a year ago. 
Our civil liberties have been curtailed for no 
publicly demonstrated gain in security. If we, 
as a society do not oppose the actions of this 
Administration, then we  in the words of 
Benjamin Franklin  deserve neither liberty 
nor security.
vCPRo ThosMAah CdmaSiaij RA C AsHaho[sCM 
AN,oshN Rh D,feRH DaeRH Cho pChCgspshN CN Ncs 
]sRh8 UHcaaeE
Higher property taxes, poor education  the woes of Pennsylvania
Buzingith eongiwr
How many bills do you think the Pennsylvania legislature can 
propose for reforming education funding in the state? 10? 20? 
50? Try over 70 in a two-day period. That was the number of bills 
proposed last week in a special session called by Governor Mark 
Schweiker. Pennsylvanias educational finances are a mess, and 
people are scrambling to fix them.
On the surface, Pennsylvania looks to be doing well. It spends 
$8,644 per student, almost $1,200 more than the national aver
age. It also ranks fourth among 13 competitor states in terms of 
spending.
However, when you break things down by school district, a 
different picture emerges. Pennsylvania recently received a 
grade of Dfor fairness from to,HCNRah BssVOA Quality Counts 
report in 2002. The low grade resulted from wide differences in 
spending by school districts. Some districts, like nearby Fox 
Chapel, spend thousands more than the average. Some, like 
Juniata County, spend $4,400 per student while others spend as
little as $1,500 per student.
Property taxes and state funding of education cause these 
problems. Although funding for education accounts for the 
largest portion of the state budget, it only provides about 32 perPennsylvania recently received a grade 
of Dfor fairness from Education 
Weeks Quality Counts report.
cent of all education funding compared to 54 percent about 30 
years ago. The rest comes from local taxes. Almost 80 percent of 
these local tax revenues are provided by property taxes.
The result is that poor or sparsely populated areas have diffi
culty keeping up with rising education costs. Elderly citizens also
find themselves faced with rising property taxes while usually 
living on fixed incomes.
A special commission urged the legislature to fix the property 
tax problem 30 years ago, but nothing was done. Now the issue 
is coming to a head (again) with the upcoming gubernatorial 
election and Schweikers special legislative session.
Most of the 70-plus proposals seek to raise non-property taxes 
in one form or another, equalize school district funding, and 
reduce local property taxes.
No one appears to have addressed the backlash thats going to 
come, however, when people in high-spending districts find 
themselves paying more taxes and not getting an equivalent 
property tax reduction.
As Ive written before, local governments around here want 
young people to move into the area and settle down. Higher 
taxes, in whatever form, tend to make attracting these people 
more difficult.
See PENNSYLVANIA, page A10
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906 
SENIOR STAFF 
Christian Restifo, Martin Hock
STAFFWRITERS 
Sonni Abatta, Nasser Abukhdeir, Dave 
Anderson, Adam Atkinson, Sharad Bajaj', 
Andy Baker, Charlie Butcosk, Suneal 
Chandran, Jeannie Choi, Albert Cohen, 
Becky Cornelius, Cam Crews, Shilpa 
Desai, Joe Elliott, Nick Ennis, Paloma 
Figueroa, Kathleen Fischer, Lisa Gentry, 
Arthur Goh, Ryan Hamilton, Colin 
Hinde, Colin Holloway, Justin Ker, 
Jasdeep Khaira, Sam Lewis, Christina 
Lim, Charles Martin, Chris Messina, 
Sean Mintus, Robyn Murphy, Julia 
Myers, Chirag Nangia, Tejas Pathak,' 
Fransesca Reale, R.J. Sikdar, Vivek 
Sridharan, Sinduja Srinivasan, Erin.' 
Szeto, Akhil Wable, Dinah Winnick,
Gita Yitta
ART
Madoka Katayama, John Kim,
Engly Chang, Jonathan Martofel, 
Sarabjeet Sareen, Michael Szczerban
COMICS
Robert Cobb, Christina Dinwoodie,
Ed Ryan
PRODUCTION 
Sean Capperis, Julian Chun, Maggie 
Kucera, J.T. Trollman, Matt Reid
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Callie Alvanitakis, Mark 
Baugh-Sasaki, Jen Airone, Sally 
Bozzuto, Roberta Chiu, Lindsay Clark, 
Luis Cota, Shanmei Lim, Eunice Ng, 
Wendy Wu
DARKROOM 
Erica Barnes, Eve Chen
COPY
James Auwaerter, Lindsey Arroyo, 
Karen Hoffmann, Leah Messina, 
Annalisa Schaefer, Laura Vaillancourt
JUNIOR STAFF 
Aditya Agarwal, Toni Bartone, Mark 
Baugh-Sasaki, Ankur Bhasin, Amy 
Bickerton, Tim Bowen, Marla Bradford,. 
Jonathan Chin, Nanda Chossat, Andrew' 
Conklin, Jamie Davidson, Emily Duff, 
Carolyn Elliott, Todd Frey, Anne Jolis' 
Chelsea Kellner, Brad Kellogg, Michal 
Kollnesher, Ross Krupnik, Tiffany Lee, 
Elizabeth Levin, Jonathan Mendels, Ken 
Pasterak, Celanie Polanick, Matt Rado, 
Grace Raso, Aditi Raturi, Megan 
Robinson, Indu Sekan, Nikhil Sinha, 
Susan Shan, Sharon Su, Kai Wu
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. The first issue is 
free. Additional copies can be purchased for 
$0.25 each. It is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring 
semesters. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for the semester or academic year. 
The editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and polit
ical cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject 
or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not necessarily, members 
of the University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon request.- 
The Tartan requests that letters be no longer 
than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Letters to the 
Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  
2002 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial, 
board reserves the right to withhold from pub
lication any copy it deems unfit for publica
tion. Office: University Center Room 314. 
Phone: 412/268-2111. Mailing address: The 
Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon 
University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890.
Email: w.tw.he.hatrnog9SoraS 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Collegiate 
Press.
aidtoiMtU B13fSlleph.tm9 
Jc seggm0h.tm 
sSSSH Vomll
The tragedies of last September 11 were devastating to all. Like the Kennedy assassination 
and other historic moments, ones immediate reaction is unforgettable, so we wanted to know:A PERSONS OPINION
*/rSr erSr fhm e/r. fhm PoS9n Vr0S.rt 0phmn n/r 0nn02y9A
Compiled by Michal Kollnesher 
Photos by Aditi Raturi
Nithin Reddy
Senior
Computer Science
I had just finished class and walked 
into my friends room.... I just began to 
wonder whether this was an isolated 
event or a prelude of events to come.
Tim Schneider
Senior
H&SS
I was in my room sleeping.... I walked 
to class and halfway to class I turned 
around and went back and called my 
parents.
Ting Ting Wu
Sophomore 
Computer Science
I was in math recitation.... This was 
one of those moments in history you 
thought you would never see.
Akitto Ledda
First-year
CIT
Since I live in Jersey City, which is 
five minutes away from Manhattan, I 
actually saw the Twin Towers fall from 
my calculus class.
Abigail Cyntje
Sophomore
CIT
I was in physics recitation and one 
of the students had a radio.... The first 
thing I thought of was my boyfriend 
because he lives in Manhattan..
aHUM

---------------------------------------------------

AioTHE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
GOD
com
VAVw.sUtroYcuom
WE
DELIVER SANDWICHES.
EAT SANDWICHES.
BLESS AMERICA!
SERIOUS DELIVERY
Got a lew spare minutes? Well show you ways to save more, invest wisely, and live on a budget 
Find these and lots of other smart real world tips at the online source lor smart students.
3444 FORBES UVE. (OAKLAND) - 681.9010 PITTSBURGH
------------ - 2002 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHtSC. IMC. _____
I just dont get it, but at least we will have Mudgewood Education taxed by failure
Loth sihgfn
I dont pretend to be an extraordinarily enlight
ened individual. I scroll through free-market.net, 
read ncs nRpsAy and try not to throw a brick at ncs 
IO0sRee GCHNaMy but sadly thats about the extent of 
my intellectual endeavors outside of a purely acad
emic setting. When, perchance, some information 
that may serve me well happens to float by, Ill 
pause and make a nonchalant attempt to snag it. I, 
like perhaps many of you, am burdened not with a 
love of learning, but rather with a haunting pres
ence that shouts from some dark nether region of 
my skull and taunts my curiosity. I find that I tend 
to learn not so much for the sake of knowing, but to 
prevent myself from not knowing.
It troubles me that there are tens of thousands of 
random tidbits of information out there that seem 
somehow to elude even the strongest steel trap 
minds. Whether this is due to bad luck, poor edu
cation, or sheer indolence, I lament day in and day 
out that there are fewer things I understand than 
things I dont.
Therefore, in an off-week prompted partially by 
more indignant and pious responses to my previ
ous column on the part of more humorless half
wits than Id rather stomach, Ive decided to share 
a few of these pickles with you. While this list is 
nothing if not abridged, I feel it represents a fairly 
decent cross section of facts that keep me staring 
up at the ceiling long after I should have climbed 
off of your mother and fallen asleep.
I do not understand:
 Why, when, and how in the hell the world lost 
its sense of humor.
 Why a university with the conspicuous desire 
to stress diversity has a black faculty population of
3.6 percent (20 of 550 tenure-track professors).
 Why Britney Spearss music is popular (note: 
I have no misgivings as to why Ms. Spears, herself, 
is popular).
 How people can completely ignore Let it 
Bleed and Beggars Banquet while uniformly 
declaring tdRes ah xCRh UNMssN the Stoness greatest 
work.
 How I had never come across Radioheads 
'aAN nMsCA,MsA until a week and a half ago.
 Why Carnegie Mellon, in dire need of addi
tional classroom space, elected to spend money on 
Mudgewood.
 Why the campus police department is too 
busy with internal struggles prompted by poor and 
biased leadership to make the most of its resources 
for the betterment of the University.
 Same question, only in reference to the stu
dent body.
 How two rich frat boys could retain any pride 
after having mommy and daddy defend them to 
the iaAN[rC8sNNs because they got caught destroy
ing someones hard work.
 How the university could ahHs CgCRh drop the 
ball when faced with decisions that needed to be 
made based on official UDC policy, civil rights, and 
basic common sense.
 Why it took from October 14 to late February 
of last year to acknowledge the mere existence of 
the possible sexual assault in the Peace Garden, 
much less to do anything about it.
 Why nothing has been done about it.
 Why aggravated indecent assault is the pre
ferred nomenclature when avoiding the term 
rape for fear that students and  more impor
tantly  their rich parents might form an accurate 
and informed opinion of this school.
 Why our incompetent Student Body President 
sits idly by with an equally incompetent police 
chief discussing the location of blue light phones 
and making statements like You ask in what direc
tion the blue lights project is going, and the answer 
to that is forward, while students are forced to 
look over their shoulders every step of the way 
home.
 Why the cops are all so fat.
 Why the Board of Trustees feels that repeat
edly and drastically increasing tuition is the best 
way to garner future alumni contributions in an 
effort to cover up a severe lack of endowment due 
to past instances of repeated drastic increases in 
tuition.
 How, in 2000, state and local law enforce
ment saw fit to arrest 734,498 people for marijuana-related crimes. (88 percent of those cases were 
for simple possession.)
 How the War on Drugs can be considered 
anything that remotely resembles a success when 
these arrests numbered more than the combined 
arrest tallies for murder, manslaughter, forcible 
rape, robbery, and aggravated assault.
 Why my rhetoric professor doesnt speak 
English.
 How an 18-year-old kid can enlist and go get 
shot in the head halfway around the world but 
cant walk into a bar and buy a beer.
 Where Afro Girl went.
 How you can still be reading this column.
 Why I havent wrapped this thing up yet.
UsCh xRhN,A (smintus@J RA C AshRaM DMalsAARahCe 
Cho HMsCNRPs wMRNRhg pCkaM wcay lMap NRps Na NRpsy 
pChCgsA Na CPaRo ,ARhg Ch aPsMCf,hoChHs al sdDesS
NRPsA ChoKaM Aaoap MslsMshHsA Rh cRA Hae,phE
PENNSYLVANIA, from page A9
---*----------------- ttWB
Consider the proposal of Republican State Senator Nick Micozzie. 
bill would raise the state income tax from 2.8 to 4.5 percent. Add that offlfr 
Pittsburghs 2.2 percent rate, and someone choosing to live in Pittsbufffii 
would be paying 6.7 percent. Many people already refuse to liveg!i 
Pittsburgh because of the taxes. While the extra revenue from his bill 
would be used to both increase school funding and reduce property taxes, 
one can imagine how Pittsburgh residents would feel.
Shifting to income or sales taxes can also cause stability problems. 
Pennsylvania does not tax necessities like food. During bad economic 
times, people tend to spend less on non-necessities; incomes can also go 
down. This reduces tax revenues. Property taxes, on the other hand, pro
vide a more stable revenue base, which allows for easier planning.
Both gubernatorial Democratic candidate Ed Rendell and Republican 
candidate Mike Fisher have stated that they will reform property taxes. 
Fisher has yet to really formulate a plan, saying only that property taxes 
need to be changed. Rendell, on the other hand, proposes three alternative 
revenue sources to increase education funding at the state level.
These additional revenues would come from increased numbers of slot 
machines at racing tracks, efficiency gains in government operations, 
and a doubling of the cigarette tax.
The efficiency gains are the most troubling. Its easy to say that you can 
always do things more efficiently. But government is not business. You can
not lay off people at will, slash costs left and right, and sell off underper
forming assets. Bureaucrats are notoriously entrenched, and no one will 
want to have his or her budget cut.
Our next governor has his work cut out for him. No well-to-do district is 
going to tolerate an increase in taxes larger than a reduction in state edu
cation subsidies. And senior citizens, who tend to vote in larger propor
tions than others, will not want any kind of tax increase. How he handles 
this issue could very well make or break his administration.
ucMRANRCh xE 0sANRla (HMMz) RA C ncRMo[sCM Gesd[nRps x-T AN,oshN CN 
rUmTE ]s eRPsA Rh Ncs Gad ucCDse AHcaae oRANMRHN CMsCy Cho wseHapsA Cee MsADahS
ARfes MsDeRsA Na cRA CMNRHesE
EARN UP TO 1350 PER SEMESTER
FOR 3 HOURS/WEEK MALE GRAD & UNDERGRAD STUDENTS & PROFESSIONALS OF ALL NATIONALITIES NEEDED FOR NATIONWIDE SPERM BANK. 
FOR INFORMATION, CALL 412-687-0358 TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT, CALL 412-687-0335
DIJFyi drtULAA
uMsCNRhg THHsAA Na to,HCNRah
Ever Get A Pol 
Smashed?
HOW TO I TSFx T e x v_/ vjl/Xj
THE BATHROOM.
Are you a graduating 
foreign student with 
questions about your 
visa status?
If so, contact 
James A. Mercolini, Esquire
Klett Rooney Lieber & Schorling 
wvvw. kl ettroonev. com 
jamercolini@klettrooney. com 
412.392.2167
FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS 
DRIVE DRUNK.
iX. I US, Department d Traasportatiao
wm  wmo * ma * mm * a*M
SEU TRIPS AT 
CAMMU,
CU TODAf F8 DfTAIlS
7 Ka9a, know dm you use up to 55 gallons 
of water a day in the bathroom? Its true. So here's 
some simple bathroom training to help conserve 
water. Turn off the faucet while brushing your 
teeth. Take shorter showers. Put a weighted jug in 
your toilet: tank. Itll ait water loss by 15%.
And if you cant remember these tips, take this 
| paper widh you the next time you go. 3Y-14YxU]T/'
IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE.
American Education Services
youcandeaiwitiitcom is brought to you as a publie sen/ice by American Education Services and Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency

---------------------------------------------------

VI7C7 WALL STREET FIRM WANTS IEi MATHEMATICAL MINDS
WORLDCO
FINANCIAL
SERVICES
DO NOT LOSE THIS ADVERTISEMENT 
SHOW IT ONLY TO YOUR MOST INTELLIGENT FRIEND
DELIVRSLAN WC HLAAS.DRTB
Monic acDDttJceSt
rHS btg rceES z btg Ntke sAt3Sppp
Hew Hours;
Monday - Friday 
8:00 AM - 1:00 AM
Saturday & Sunday 
5:00 PM-1:00 AM
Check out the new breakfast menu & new vegetarian options! 
Keep an eye out for upcoming events in Skibo Coffeehouse!
SEPTEMBER 18 20  ALUMNI HALL
Symposium on hot research topics 
*
World-renowned keynote speakers 
C. David Allis, Ph.D.
Errol C. Friedberg, M.B., B.Ch.
Nobel Laureate Ferid Murad, M.D., Ph.D.
Leading-edge researchers -* 
from Pitt and Carnegie Melltm
Scientists froriT local biotech 
and engineering firms
KEYNOTE LECTURES BY 
DISTINGUISHED SCIENTISTS:
C. David Allis, Ph.D.
Errol C. Friedberg, M.B., 8.Ch.
Exhibition of scientific 
products and services
Career talk by biotech entrepreneur 
Carol A. Nacy, Ph.D. # ^
Networking jazz brunch 
highlighting local science jobs
First Look technology showcase
Nobel Laureate Ferid Murad, M.D., Ph.D.
Carol A. Nacy, Ph.D.
For information and registration: www.science2002.pitt.edu
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
Good science is good business.
Start a career as a Proprietary Equity Trader
MICKEY HART
ANDBEMBE 0RISHA
AN UNFORGETTABLE NIGHT OF WORLD MUSIC 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 8 PM 
SOLDIERS & SAILORS MEMORIAL HALL, OAKLAND 
(5 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS)
MICKEY HARTS PLANET DRUM WON A GRAMMY 
FOR BEST WORLD MUSIC ALBUM. NOW THE 30- 
YEAR GRATEFUL DEAD VETERAN IS BRINGING HIS 
AMAZING MASTERY OF WORLD PERCUSSION TO 
PITTSBURGH WITH HIS BAND, BEMBE ORISHA 
(TRANS: PARTY FOR THE SAINTS). THIS WILL BE AN 
AMAZING NIGHT OF HEAVILY PERCUSSIVE DANCE 
MUSIC INCORPORATING AFRICAN, MIDDLE 
EASTERN, AND CARIBBEAN RHYTHMS. HART CALLS IT
UPLIFTING AND CELEBRATORY, 
THE ULTIMATE FUSION MUSIC.
AND IT PROMISES TO BE A FULL MOON.
SPECIAL STUDENT TICKETS $25. CALL PROARTS TICKET SERVICE AT 
412-394-3353 TO ORDER (YOUR TICKETS WILL BE WAITING FOR YOU THE NIGHT OF 
THE CONCERT. YOU MUST PRESENT YOUR STUDENT I.D. WHEN PICKING THEM UP).
CALLidPC
Newswriting 
Business 
^ Art / Design 
^ Programming 
$ Information Systems 
Sportswriting
email The Tartan: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
Have a nose for News?Seeking qualified individuals in:
Contact Information:
Fax full resume with cover letter to: (212) 601-6352 
or e-mail to pattaud@wlclc.com
www.worldcollc.com www.wldc.com
Backgrounds in statistics, mathematics, science, and physics are 
highly desirable.
Experience in quantitative analysis, hedging, financial modeling, computers, 
forecasting, financial technology, pattern recognition, neural networks, information 
automation, video gaming, and electronics are also advantageous.
Candidates can leverage these characteristics and experiences, which describe 
many of the top traders now at Worldco, into a successful and rewarding trading 
career.
Qualified candidates will learn the fundamentals of consistent, profitable trading 
from trading gums who will share their expertise and trading genius in this fertile 
arena. Through this optimal mentoring system, you will use contextual arguments 
and pointed inquiry to understand the volatility, and numeric, historical puzzle of 
the equity markets,
Traders will use the most sophisticated, technologically advanced execution, quote, 
and filter systems, and high-speed internet access available. This translates into 
real-time, live, direct and surgical access to the equity markets.
Worldco provides financial capital for trading activity. Semi-monthly payouts are 
based soley on each trader's profitability. Sponsorship for series 7, 55, and 
24 securities licenses. Team growth opportunities are available, globally, for 
qualified, proven traders.
Worldco clearly discloses the risk that Proprietary Traders share in both the profits 
and losses of their trading activity." Worldco is a self-clearing firm and member of 
the NASD, SIPC, DTC, and OCC
Campusa
F(ucu<(ca 9iMX(<i
Worldco, a leading proprietary equity trading firm, headquartered 
at 110 Wall Street in Manhattan, is currently seeking highly 
intelligent, elite, opportunistic, strategic, and analytical thinkers.
Special individuals who are predictive, consistent, coolly disciplined, 
persistent, focused, intense, brilliant, talented, self-confident, 
intellectual, energetic, and fast.
Aggressive, rigorous, and logical students, MBAs, PhDs, dual degree 
holders, academics, celebrated scholars, chess players and bridge 
players with strong GPAs from Ivy League or other top 
universities.

---------------------------------------------------

UBS Warburg is a pre-eminent global financial services 
firm. Our business encompasses: Equities, Finance and 
Control, Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange, Information 
Technology, Investment Banking and Operations.
The key to achieving growth and change is proactively 
recruiting the best and brightest people into an inspiring 
culture, providing the opportunity and the resources to 
succeed. Our firm is focused on education, but it will be 
up to you to turn that education into your own success 
story. At UBS Warburg, you will have the freedom to 
demonstrate your strength of character in an environment 
where achievement and reward are naturally connected.
Please visit our representatives at Carnegie 
Mellon University Technical Opportunities 
Conference on Thursday, September 19,2002 
and Business Opportunities Conference on 
Friday, September 20,2002.
We also invite the Class of 2003 to come meet 
representatives from one of the fastest growing 
investment banks in the world at our presentation:
Date:
Venue:
Time:
Business Areas:
Wednesday, September 18th
Doherty Hall 2315
7:00 PM - 9:00PM
Equities, Information Technology, 
Operations and Private Banking
We are accepting resumes from the Class of 2003.
We welcome those interested to apply via your career 
office by Friday, September 20,2002 (Operations and 
Private Banking), Tuesday, September 24,2002 (Equities), 
Friday, October 4,2002 (Information Technology).
To apply for a position, please visit your career office 
or our website: www.ubs.com/graduates
www.ubswarburg.comUBS Warburg
UBS Warburg is a business group of UBS AG. In the U.S., securities underwriting, trading and brokerage activities and M&A advisory activities are conducted by UBS Warburg LLC, an indirect 
subsidiary of UBS AG that is a registered broker-dealer and a member of the New York Stock Exchange and other principal exchanges and SIPC. In the U.K., these services are provided by UBS 
Warburg Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of UBS AG that is regulated in the U.K. by the SFA, to persons who are not private customers in the U.K.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 9,2002
Volleyball unsatisfied with second place
by Colin Holloway
UNCllwMRNsM
l Last year was a record-setting 
ygar for the Carnegie Mellon 
Volleyball team. They went 26-7, 
and were ranked 22nd in the nation 
among division three schools. They 
defeated the number one-ranked 
Washington University for the first 
time ever, they finished second in 
their conference, and they took a 
trip to the NCAA tournament, 
becoming the first CMU Volleyball 
team to do so.
But that was last year. Now the 
squad faces the challenge of living 
up to expectations and of duplicat
ing a breakout year. Anything less 
than last seasons success will be a 
let down. The girls took second last 
weekend at their first tournament of 
the season, and took the court this 
weekend at the Ohio Northern 
Invitational looking to make a state
ment to the ranking committee, 
wsWith a preseason ranking of 21, the
Tartans were one of the top teams in 
the tournament, but failed to dis
play their talents on the first day of 
competition.
In their first match on Friday, 
CMU was out of sync, losing to Hope 
(Mich.) in four games. Despite a five 
game victory over Thomas More 
(Ky.) in their second match, the 
Tartans were not happy with their 
first day of competition.
It wasnt my team that was play
ing out there, said head coach Julie 
Webb. We knew we could play bet
ter than that.
The players proved their coach 
right the following morning with a 
victory over the host of the invita
tional, 16th-ranked Ohio Northern. 
Later in the afternoon, the Tartans 
ended the tournament with a loss to 
Mount St. Joseph, the team that 
won the event by going 4-0. CMU 
went 2-2 and finished in second 
place, an accomplishment, but not 
quite what they wanted.
It was a slap in the face for us, 
said Coach Webb of the tournament.
We couldve won.
Despite the disappointment, the 
season looks for the girls. Lauren 
Schmidt, CMUs first volleyball AllAmerican, has had three 30-kill 
games the first two weeks, a feat she 
didnt accomplish once last year. 
Christine Casella joined Schmidt as 
a selection to the All-Tournament 
team, and a victory over a higher 
ranked team gives the squad some 
much-needed confidence.
I know my team, said Webb. 
They were disappointed with this 
weekend, and theyll work hard all 
week in practice and play better. 
Thats the type of team they are. 
This doesnt set a negative tone for 
the season.
After two disappointing second 
place finishes, the Tartans looks to 
establish themselves in their games 
coming up this weekend. They take 
the court against St. Vincent College 
at 6 pm on Friday, and against 
Washington and Jefferson, 
Waynesburg, and Carlow starting at 
10 am Friday morning.
Two Tartan teams ranked nationally
by Tristan Hoffmann
UDaMNA toRNaM
Two Tartan teams were rewarded 
for their stellar seasons last year, 
making the NCAA Division-Ill 
national rankings. In the preseason 
rankings, the womens volleyball 
team ranked 21st and the mens soc
cer team tied for 20th.
Last season was one of the most
successful seasons ever for the vol
leyball squad, which compiled a 
26-7 record and finished second in 
the UAA. They also went to the 
NCAA tournament. This year they 
are returning UAA player of the year 
and second team All-American 
Lauren Schmidt.
The mens soccer team begins the 
season ranked at 20th and as confer
ence favorites. The team is the twotime defending UAA champion and
is looking to become the second 
team in UAA history to win three 
titles in a row. The University of 
Rochester accomplished the task 
from 1988-1990. Last year the team 
finished 14-3 and returns UAA play
er of the year and second team AllAmerican Adam Hibshman.
The team was also a unanimous 
selection as conference favorites in 
the UAA coaches poll. Wash U was 
picked second in the UAA poll.
As unbeatable as Mets pile on the losses
BASEBALL, from page A14
run, the As were unable to pull away from their divi
sion rivals, holding a slim two-game lead over Anaheim 
as of Friday evening. The Angels also happen to be the 
As opponent for six out of their next nine games, with a 
small break as Oakland takes on the playoff-hopeful 
Mariners as well.
All in all, the two streaks will probably end up as
nothing more than interesting trivia a season or two 
from now. If the Athletics have a say, though, 20 con
secutive wins would make a nice footnote for a champi
onship season, while the Mets would just like to forget 
that August ever happened.
xCNN-M,h RA C lRlNc[sCM mxAN,oshNE ]s RA sNsMhCee 
gMCNsl,e NcCN C hsw HaeesHNRPs fCMgCRhRhg CgMsspshN wCA 
MsCHcso Aa NcCN cs ANRee cCA AapsNcRhg Na wMRNs Cfa,NE
Tuesday September 17  IM Board through Thursday nights at the UC 
Meeting at 11:45am in Gym Gym. Schedules are available in 
Conference Room. the IM Office.
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214 or ppC.z 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski x8-2214 or RppRVsz 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
x8-2053 or VRMVz
Intramural President: Derek
Ritchea X2-3923 or oMRNHcsCz 
Womens President: Sandy
Rectenwald x2-2497 or AAMz
Important Dates
Monday September 9  Flag 
Football games start.
Tueday September 10  Tennis 
and Co-Rec Volleyball start. 
Thursday September 12  Rosters 
due for Water Polo, Chess, and 
Bowling in the IM Office by 
4:30pm.
Sports in Season
Flag Football
Games start tonight. They are 
played Monday through Thursday 
nights and Sunday afternoons on 
the IM and Stadium fields. 
Schedules are available in the IM 
Office.
Tennis
Games start tomorrow. Matches 
consist of 2 singles and 1 doubles 
match. Matches are played 
Monday through Thursday 
evenings at the University Tennis 
Courts. Schedules are available in 
the IM Office.
Co-Rec Volleyball 
Games start tomorrow. Teams are 
made up of 3 men and 3 women. 
Matches are played Monday
AP-IM Basketball Poll
Upcoming Sports 
Water Polo
Rosters are due by 4:30 pm 
Thursday in the IM Office. There 
are 5 players per side in the pool at 
a time. Games are played Monday 
and Wednesday nights in the UC 
Pool from 9 to 11 pm.
Bowling
Rosters are due by 4:30 pm 
Thursday in the IM Office. Matches 
are played off campus at the PAA in 
Oakland on Sunday afternoons. 
Rosters are due by 4:30 pm 
Thursday in the IM Office. Matches 
are played off campus at the PAA in 
Oakland on Sunday afternoons.
Tee spCRe MaANsMA CMs o,s J ca,MA 
DMRaM Na eRANso o,s oCNsE
artWork
postcards
We copy everything you can think of.
Camelie Mellonirneine iviei ion
COPY CENTERSwww.ur.cmu.edu/ucc
Mens soccer opens with shut-out win
The defending UAA Champions suffered an injury to leading scorer Adam Hibshman in Victory
by Nikhil Sinha
j,hRaM UNCllwMRNsM
The two-time defending UAA 
champions kicked off the season last 
Wednesday as Carnegie Mellon shut 
out La Roche College, 5-0.
The Tartans dominated the game 
by consistently keeping the ball in the 
offensive zone, preventing La Roche 
from creating any scoring opportuni
ties. La Roche did not register a shot 
on goal until the 69th minute and fin
ished with only two total shots.
While the season opener was a 
strong indicator of the Tartans ability 
to finish scoring chances, it also 
brought a plethora of injuries.
The Tartans persistent attack cre
ated and squandered numerous 
opportunities. Throughout the game 
several attempts on goal missed the 
target, including their first shot 
which bounced off the corner of the 
goalpost in the 40th minute.
However, the Tartans relentless 
pressure in the offensive zone 
enabled them to eventually put 
together some spectacular scoring 
plays. We started slowly and had 
some nerves, but we got more and 
more comfortable, said assistant 
coach Harry Ulrich.
Just moments after being denied a 
goal on a point blank shot, the 
Tartans got on the scoreboard in the 
28th minute with an impressive play 
by sophomore midfielder James 
Steidel, last years UAA Rookie of the 
Year.
At midfield, Steidel took the ball 
and dribbled it down the right side, 
losing the La Roche defender. Steidel 
fired the ball inside the far post, beat
ing the goaltender and recording the
Tartans first goal of the season. This 
was one of Steidels three great 
chances in the first half  his attempt 
on a two-on-one breakaway in the 
17th minute barely went over the 
goalpost, and another shot in the 
37th minute just went wide right. 
However, the Tartans near-impeccable defense kept the score at 1-0 
leading into halftime.
The first half was unfortunately 
marred by injuries to three Tartan 
starters, including senior midfielder 
Adam Hibshman, the UAA 
Conference Player of the Year.
Hibshman left the game in the 
eighth minute, while freshman mid
fielder Dan Mastalski and junior 
defender Eric Buhman had to be 
replaced in the 12th and 26th min
utes, respectively, with leg injuries.
We have five guys injured who 
would be competing for starting 
spots, including Adam Hibshman, 
our top scorer. The injuries could 
affect the teams performance this 
season [if they are serious], Ulrich 
said.
The Tartans second half perfor
mance did not appear to suffer from 
the first half injuries. The Tartans 
continued to mount pressure in La 
Roches zone, and displayed an effec
tive passing game.
Sophomore defender Alex Beck 
scored the second goal of the game in 
the 51st minute on a shot from the 
right side, following a give-and-go 
pass from junior midfielder Andy 
Sukenik.
Eight minutes later junior mid
fielder Mike Leonhard and senior for
ward Matt Crummy combined on a 
well-executed play to extend the lead 
to 3-0. Leonhard was fed a perfect 
pass while blazing down the left side
of the field. He made a quick giveand-go pass to Crummy, setting him 
up downfield. He then cut to the mid
dle of the field alone and easily put 
the ball past the goaltender.
The La Roche goaltender made a 
brilliant punch save in the 71st 
minute on a corner kick cross, but the 
Tartans were not finished scoring. 
Steidel continued his stellar play in 
the second half, and the Tartans fur
ther extended their lead when he 
converted on his second goal a 
minute after Sukeniks shot in the 
77th minute deflected off a La Roche 
player and went in the net. In a twoon-two situation, he maneuvered 
straight down midfield and planted a 
shot directly into the goal, capping 
the Tartans scoring and a five-goal 
lead.
The only thing left to be deter
mined in the games final minutes 
was whether Tartan sophomore goal
tender David Thomas could preserve 
the shutout. With solid defensive play 
in front of him, he recorded the first 
shut out of the year; the Tartans had 
notched their first victory in a season 
with a bright outlook.
After the teams strong perfor
mance, Steidel was optimistic. [The 
teams play] was very, very positive, 
and we have high expectations this 
year, he said. We got off to a good 
start, but weve got stay injury-free. 
The [artificial] turf is hard on our 
feet, and hopefully the injuries are 
not serious.
The Tartans next game is away at 
Mount Union College on September
11. Game time is scheduled for 4:30 
pm. Mt. Union Colleges record is 2-2 
this year. They are 0-2 on the road 
and are currently on a two-game los
ing streak.
We're looking for great minds like yours to join us in the diverse and challenging 
world of energy. Shell opportunities offer you responsibility, innovation, and the 
chance to make a difference. With outstanding national and international career 
prospects and professional variety, Shell can help you set your sights - and 
thoughts - on success.
Sign up for an interview with Shell at your campus career center 
right away.
We're interested in hearing from students in the following disciplines:
Petroleum Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Geoscience 
Accounting/Finance
Chemical Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Human Resources 
MIS/Computer Science
Welcome back to school.
Shell will be on campus this fall.
Thinking about a better future? 
www.shell.com/careers
Shell Companies in the U.S. are equal opportunity employers. The collective expression "Shell* is 
used to refer to the Shell Companies in the U.S., which are separate and distinct entities.

---------------------------------------------------

Thistledown |p
Whos next: Carnegie Melon (1-0) at Grove City 
College (1-0) 1:30 pm, Saturday, September 7 on 
WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Last meeting: In 2001, Carnegie Mellon and Grove 
City College met at Gesling Stadium on CMUs Youth 
Athletic Day. Ricardo Clarke ran for 114 yards and 
helped sparked the offense in the second half, as the 
Tartans took advantage of bad penalties by Grove City 
to erase a 14-7 deficit and win 17-14 on a late touch
down run by senior fullback Adam Urbanczyk.
The skinny: Grove City is coming off a solid 30-7 victo
ry over Hiram last week. That was Grove Citys first 
opening day victory since 1997. However, CMU looked 
very solid against Bethany in the opener, establishing a 
dominating running game.
Look for: Senior Adam Urbanczyk this week was given 
an opportunity to run in all situations. The result was 
120 yards on 22 carries. After being used primarily in 
short yardage and goal line situations, the power run
ning back looks poised to become a vital part of this 
years offense.
Result: The Tartans looked too good and too sharp in 
their home opener to let a team like Grove City upset 
them. They excelled in all areas of the field and were 
able to stifle a solid running game by Bison runningback Will Anderson. Look for the Tartans to build on a 
solid opening win with a victory. CMU 27, Grove City 
10.
Team notes: Senior QB Sebastian Smelko looked solid 
as he took over control of the offense from 2002 gradu
ate Eric Zimpfer. He read the defense well and knew 
when to tuck the ball and run.... Junior Joe Ciccarelli 
added a little spark as he took over the punt return role. 
Showing some elusive moves, he had 73 yards on punt 
returns, including a 31 yard return he broke.... The 
offensive line, with only two returning starters, held the 
Bison defense to just one sack the entire game and did a 
good job opening holes for the running game.
HapDReso f 
Tristan Hoffmann
by Preston Treichel
UNCllwMRNsM
The Tartans kicked off the regular 
season last Saturday with a 31-9 vic
tory in the home opener against the 
Bethany Bison. The teams played a 
close first half, but the Tartans 
pulled away in the final quarter, uti
lizing good field position and a 
strong running game to capitalize on 
scoring opportunities.
The Tartans received the ball first, 
but were unable to get anything 
rolling on the opening drive and 
were forced to punt. The ensuing 28- 
yard punt return by Ryan Nohe of 
Bethany proved harmful, as it placed 
Bethany deep in Tartan territory to 
start their opening drive. The Tartan 
defense held, and Bethany was 
forced to settle with a 35-yard Paul 
Barsotti field goal.
The score stayed 3-0 until the end 
of the first quarter, when the Tartans 
would get their first score of the day. 
Senior Adam Urbanczyk followed a 
21-yard run with a plunge from one 
yard out to give the Tartans a 7-3 
lead.
The defenses held strong in the 
second quarter and the only score 
came from a 26-yard field goal by 
junior placekicker Mike Palmer with 
six seconds left in the half. At halftime the score was 10-3 in favor of 
CMU.
After a scoreless third quarter, the
fourth quarter proved to be all CMU. 
On the sixth drive of the second half 
the Tartans found the end zone 
again. Senior halfback Andrew 
Garrod contributed a nice 10-yard 
prance into the endzone for the 
Tartans, and CMU had a 17-3 lead.
It was a hot summer day, and head 
coach Rich Lackner attributes the 
dominating fourth quarter to the 
depth of the team.
We played more people and had 
more depth, said Lackner. Heat
was a factor, and we wore them 
down. Our running game became 
more proficient.
Senior defensive back Ryan 
McMillen sparked things for the 
Tartans when he took an intercep
tion 35 yards the other way for a 
defensive touchdown. All parts of 
the CMU defense functioned solidly 
all day, as Bethany was having trou
ble putting together anything offen
sively.
The only thing that seemed to be
working for them was the screen 
pass, said Lackner. You cant really 
expect to rely on that to get your 
offense through a game.
The Tartan defense was playing 
with enthusiasm and heart, led by 
senior co-captain Frank Adam. Adam 
led CMU with 7 tackles and provided 
the defense with an intimidating 
presence.
Junior Lane Martin finished out 
the CMU scoring with a 26-yard run 
in which he was hardly touched due
to impressive blocking by the offen
sive line. Palmers successful kick 
brought the score to 31-3.
Bethany answered with a touch
down, but it was too little, too late. 
Pat Crossey found Jeremy Lacaria for 
a short 3 yard pass to score. The 
extra point attempt was no good, 
bringing the final score to 31-9.
The Tartan offense was a little 
sluggish at first, but it picked things 
up as the contest wore on. Senior 
quarterback Sebastian Smelko fin
ished the game 4 of 8 for 84 yards 
with one interception. He had no 
trouble finding junior receiver Chris 
Kay, who caught 3 passes for 69 
yards.
The offense amassed a total of 352 
yards on the ground, with 120 of the 
yards coming from Urbanczyk. 
Sophomore Ricardo Clarke added 60 
yards on 14 carries. Junior Joe 
Ciccarelli had a couple crafty punt 
returns over 20 yards as well, amass
ing 73 return yards.
With one win in what they hope 
will be their 28th consecutive win
ning season, the Tartans are looking 
to next Saturday when they travel to 
Grove City. Lackner plans to work 
hard this week at practice and get 
another victory.
The players arent easily satis
fied, said Lackner. Everyones 
going to focus on improving some 
aspect of their game. If we continue 
to improve, things are going to get 
better.
Sports
9 September 2002 THE TARTAN Page A14.
As are hot while Tenacious D corrals the Bethany Bison in fall opener
Mets plain stink
stgg dzfh
This weeks column is a tale of two 
teams. More specifically, its a tale of 
two streaks. One is the kind every 
athlete dreams about; the magic run 
that comes along once or twice in a 
generation. The other is also dreamt 
about, but those dreams are usually 
followed by a violent awakening and 
a cold sweat.
The two streaks in question are, of 
course, the Oakland Athletics 20- 
game winning streak (broken last 
Friday in Minnesota) and the New 
York Mets 15-game home losing 
streak (broken September 3 against 
the Florida Marlins). Both of the 
streaks were wildly improbable and 
captured just the right (or wrong, for 
the Mets) mixture of luck and skill 
that can make sports so entertaining.
Neither streak came out of 
nowhere; Oakland is an excellent 
team with playoff aspirations and 
two previous 8-game winning 
streaks this season, while the Mets 
are just plain lousy. The Mets, 
though, had been somewhat more 
consistent, not having a single streak 
longer than six games, win or lose. 
During their streak, however, the 
Mets were just plain awful. While 
they did manage to stay 6-8 on the 
road during the streak, that still left 
them with a 6-23 record spanning 
the entire month of August and the 
first couple of days in September.
The Mets losses ranged from four 
one-run games to a seven-run rout, 
and they were outscored by an aver
age of three and a half runs per 
game. More telling is the fact that 
their pitching staff allowed almost 
six runs per game while the offense 
scored just under three and was shut 
out twice (including a 1-0 loss to 
Philadelphia on August 31). Even 
taking their road games into 
account, the Mets scored barely over 
three runs per game and allowed just 
a hair under five per game.
Even in the games with close 
scores, New York was rarely competi
tive. The Mets held leads during only 
four of the 14 consecutive home loss
es, and twice allowed their opponent 
to tie the score in the ninth inning. 
Throw in their 31 errors in 29 
games, and the Mets may have just 
finished one of the worst months in 
baseball history.
Oakland, meanwhile, could do no 
wrong for three entire weeks. During 
their 20 wins, the Athletics averaged 
more than seven runs a game while 
allowing slightly more than three, a 
difference of almost four runs a 
game. After a normal enough start 
(taking the last two of a three game 
series with Toronto), Oakland swept 
six straight series, including 10 con
secutive road wins in Cleveland, 
Detroit, and Kansas City. Granted, 
those teams arent exactly the elite of 
the American League, but winning 
10 in a row away from home is still 
mighty impressive.
As the streak wore on, Oakland 
seemed to succumb to the pressure 
somewhat, as the last three wins 
were by a combined four runs, each 
requiring ninth inning heroics (hap
pily provided by Miguel Tejada each 
time). In what turned out to be the 
final addition to the streak, Oakland 
blew an 11-0 lead against Kansas 
City before rallying to win 12-11.
Clearly reflecting the different 
directions these two teams are tak
ing, the fan response to the streaks 
varied considerably. Attendance at 
Mets games remained almost con
stant at 29,000+ per game during 
the losing streak, while a regularseason record 55,528 crammed into 
Oakland Coliseum to watch win 
number 20.
Those fans in Oakland would be 
well advised to stick around, as 
things should only get more interest
ing from here. Despite their amazing
See BASEBALL, page A13
This Week
Football plays an away game at 
Grove City college Saturday, 
September 13, at 1:30 pm.
Mens soccer continues their sea
son first by playing Wednessday, 
September 11 at 4:30 pm at Mt. 
Union College.
They then will travel to Oberlin 
College to play an away game on 
Saturday, September 14. The playing 
time has yet to be announced.
Womens soccer plays Grove City 
College at home 7:30 pm Wednesday, 
September 11, at Gesling Stadium.
They then travel to Washington 
and Jefferson College fora game 
Saturday, September 14, at 3:30 pm.
Both tennis teams travel to Grove 
City College on TYiesday, September 
10 The time has yet to be announced.
The tennis teams then come home 
for matches against Waynesburgh 11 
am Saturday, September 14 at the 
tennis courts.
Andrew Garrod (9) breaks through the hole on a touchdown run for the Tartans. Right, quarterback Sebastian Smelko runs the option play in his first game as the starting quarterback.
Tennis teams sweep first 
week of fall competition
by Tristan Hoffmann
UDaMNA toRNaM
Last Saturday, the womens tennis 
team traveled to Allegheny College 
to sweep their tournament. The 
team won their its first three match
es to start this season by dispatching 
Penn State-Behrend, Fredonia 
College, and Allegheny College 
without any player losing a single 
match.
The Tartans began the tourna
ment against Penn State-Behrend, 
and Penn State-Behrends Becky 
Snyder and Jenny Zhang, the first 
doubles team, gave the Carnegie 
Mllon the biggest challenge of the 
entire tournament before eventual
ly losing to the Tartans Crystal Fong 
and Diana Yoon 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 
(7-4). After that match, no Tartan 
player even lost a set. Alison Liu 
(first singles), Corace Hwang (third 
singles), and Ann Kozlowski (fourth 
singles) all swept their matches 6-0, 
6-0. The Tartans finished the match 
with a score of CMU 6, Penn StateBehrend 0.
Im very positive about the sea
son because we have a lot of new 
people and theyre working hard, 
said coach Peter Moss. They have a 
positive attitude and I really appre
ciate that.
Next up for the Tartans was 
Fredonia State College. Adare 
Blumenfeld and Meredith Fry 
moved into the first doubles posi
tion, sweeping their match 6-0, 
6-0. First singles player Alison Liu 
also swept her match for the second 
straight time, while Kavita Shah and 
Yoon moved into fourth and fifth 
singles, respectively, to post victo
ries for the Tartans 6-1, 6-0 and 
6-1, 6-1.
Im impressed with the talent 
that we have, said Moss. This is 
one of the strongest teams weve 
had since Ive been here, especially 
with the depth.
In the final round, CMU beat the 
host Allegheny College 6-0. Kavita 
Shah rotated into first doubles with 
Blumenfeld, helping beat Stephanie 
Pera and Eileen Gallagher 6-2, 6-2. 
Liu (6-4, 6-1), Weiss (6-4, 6-1), 
and Hwang (6-3, 6-4) all won for 
the third time on the day, despite 
tougher competition from the top 
three singles.
The mens tennis team was also in 
action this week at Allegheny 
College, playing their first match of 
the season there September 5. The 
Tartans won the match 6-1, with 
everyone winning except first sin
gles player and first-year Paul 
Buyanovsky, who lost to Allegheny 
senior Gabe Higgs-Horwell. 
Sophomores Boris Sofman and 
Derek Li combined to win both of 
their singles matches and also the 
first doubles match, helping get the 
season off to a promising start.
It was more of a match where we 
got a chance to work on a lot of 
things, said junior Jason Zucker. I 
came in there thinking not about 
blowing him out but about what I 
could do to improve. Its the first 
match of the season, youre just try
ing to get ready.
Buyanovsky is just one of three 
first-year starters and six first-year 
members of the team. I think we 
have a good group of freshmen, 
said Sofman. Theres definitely a 
few of them that have pleasantly 
surprised us.
Half the team are freshmen, 
said Buyanovsky. but were all 
ready to come into big games and 
win.
Womens soccer 
starts a solid 3-0
Invigorated with a large group of 
first-years, the womens soccer 
team opened its season by winning 
their first three games convincing
ly. The Tartans season began 
Sunday night at Gesling Stadium, 
when they shut out Penn State 
University:Altoona 4-0. They then 
traveled to Allegheny, where they 
squeaked out a 2-1 victory on the 
road. The first week closed 
Saturday night in Gesling, where 
they dominated the University of 
Pittsburgh-Greensburg 7-0.
The Tartans returned 12 players 
from a team that went 13-5-1 and 
went to the ECAC playoffs, but they 
have benefited from a large pool of 
newcomers. Five first-vears have
already invaded the starting ranks, 
making an immediate impact. With 
so many new freshman, right now 
were just trying to get them comfort
able, said head coach Heather 
Kendra. It feels almost like a new 
team. We need to get the freshmen to 
adjust to a new system.
They showed no discomfort in their 
first games, as CMU was constantly 
on the offensive. Even when the ball 
reached CMU territory, teams were 
too deep in their own zone to get a 
considerable attack going.
With the new players, our talent 
level and team speed has increased. 
On top of that, the returning players 
have all come back in even better 
shape, making the overall team play 
better. Im absolutely pleased with 
our play so far, but we have a long 
way to go, said Kendra.
The womens next game is 7:30 pm 
on Wednesday, September 11, at 
Gesling Stadium versus Grove City
Cross country 
teams go 3-3
On Saturday, the womens cross
country team participated in the 
Duquesne Duals meet at Schenley 
Park. At the meet were teams from St. 
Josephs University, Duquesne 
University, Wheeling Jesuit, the 
University of Pittsburgh, St. 
Bonaventure University, Penn StateAltoona, and Carnegie Mellon.
Scoring for the meet was done in 
round-robin fashion, with each team 
recording a match against each of the 
other six schools.
The womens team finished the 
event, their first of the season, 3-3, 
defeating Wheeling Jesuit 18-43, St. 
Bonaventure 15-50^ and PSUAltoona 15-49. Senior Katie Aerni led 
the Tartans, finishing first overall 
with a time of 18:22. Aerni was 
joined in the top 10 by first-year 
Andrea Garvue, who finished ninth 
in 19:31. CMU also had 4 more in the 
top 30: sophomore Jessica Melanko 
was 23rd (20:09), first-year Jocelyn 
Sikora took 26th (20:28), first-year 
Karen Helmstetter followed at 27th 
(20:29), and first-year Ashley 
Krankowski was 29th (20:32).
The mens team recorded victories 
over Pitt (23-34), St. Bonaventure 
(16-47), and PSU-Altoona (15-50), 
to finish the event 3-3 despite placing 
only one runner in the top 10 overall. 
Junior Matthew Meurer took ninth 
place in 22:03, followed closely by 
first-year Dana Irrer, who took 11th. 
The Tartans only had two other fin
ishers in the top 30: first-year Nick 
End finished 17th (22:18), and junior 
Jared Markowitz was 28th (22:36).
After a weekend off from competi
tion, on Saturday, September 21, the 
team plays at the Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania Invitational.
HapDReso f 
Tristan HoffmannJunior midfielder Merry McConnochie drives the ball up the field against PittGreensburg. The Tartans have started the 2002 season undefeated at 3-0.
F

---------------------------------------------------

TiUfcOX
volume 1, issue 2 September 9, 2002
toi tcMtcu cMt cuW <AatAMi vc^c(ui
Iu(WiR RiX(i kn(Wtku ui caOAvr c ak<ca cAtokM
ui ukXiar cuW kviu ia--Wi-iui <aci

---------------------------------------------------

letter from the editor
And so it continues...
As pretentious as it seems to have a regular letter from the editor appearing in a weekly newspa
per, I assure you that it feels even more pretentions and awkward for me. But after next week, there 
will be no more letters.
Next week is the premiere issue of Dossier, The Tartans literary magazine, within Pillbox. With 
that, youll get a nice, unpretentious letter from Meagan Ciesla, Dossier Literary Editor.
What youll see in this space upon reaching the end of the letters, 
starting with Pillbox number four, will be a photograph. Yes, and a 
caption. Perhaps some unpretentiously artistic shots of campus life, 
perhaps some candid shots, in the style of the ever-popular feature 
photo.
If you know of anything particularly photogenic, give us a heads 
up, and maybe well shoot it and run it. And, as always, I welcome 
your feedback.
Nevermind the bollocks,
Emma
STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Bradley Grantz 
MANAGING EDITOR Christopher Chung 
PILLBOX EDITOR EmmaRehm 
ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Cheryl Tomblin 
ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Monica Datta 
LAYOUT EDITOR Betty Kim 
COMICS EDITOR Jason Reed2-
PHOTO EDITOR Jeff Cullers 
ART EDITOR Jeremy Canceko 
ONLINE EDITOR Jason Surovy 
DOSSIER EDITOR Meagan Ciesla 
COPY MANAGER Julie Watt 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Mark Rau 
CALENDAR STAFF Sarah Crosskey
Pillbox August 23, 2002
3 bTwYRbvH ibFw
SECRETS INSIDE PURNELL & MAKING SCONES 
NG iwMvYwR 
CMU FACULTY HEAD UP ADAMSON SERIES 
(o FwZvYw 
SELF DEFENSE CUSSES FOR WOMEN
9 1RbM
MIDTOWNS NEW ALOUM, OEVE AZZV RUNK RELEASE 
-p ZYv 
CHANGING ROLES OF WOMEN AT CMU 
\% zjR 
LOCAL AUTHOR RELEASES LATEST NOVEL
Lq 1TbwR
NOTORIOUS C.H.O.
LCx M1bMR
YOU KNOW YOU LOVE THEM.
LD MZiwsZY 
LI MiZRRbFbwsR
p4: Cooking ugly scones in a tiny 
kitchen is worth the time!
Pillbox Volume 1, Issue 2
To contact the staff of Pillbox:
The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890

---------------------------------------------------

UViij
Inside the Purnell Center
Students avoid the Purnell Center 
for the Arts like a haunted house. Its 
long, curvy corridors, the confining 
lobby that says to outsiders, This is 
as far as you go, the in and out 
doors in the basement bathroom that 
make you think you are trapped for
ever ... all of them have intimidated 
students at one point or another.
Sure, it looks like the University 
Center. Its across the Cut from the 
University Center. But Purnell is noth
ing like the University Center. In fact, 
only a very small proportion of CMU 
students even entered the impressive 
structure, most of them being the 
scarce drama majors who regularly 
use the facility, built four years ago. 
So its obvious that something is 
frightening away the student body of 
CMU, and its probably not the base
ment restroom, since most other peo
ple know how to work in and out 
doors.
Upon entering the Purnell Center, 
one is welcomed with a restrictive, 
circular lobby. In the far corner are 
the entrances to Chosky Theatre, 
where such large scale productions as 
last years Company are presented, 
and a smaller, more intimate theater 
where drama students frequently 
present small-scale plays. To the right 
of these entrances is Purnells install
ment of the popular campus coffee 
shop, La Prima. This is the extent of 
most CMU students Purnell knowl
edge, if that.
Senior ECE major Mike Beattie has 
never actually stepped inside Purnell. 
I just really never had a reason to go 
inside, I guess. Besides, an engineer 
in Purnell? Id be pretty out of place. 
Should students like Beattie ever opt 
to explore Purnell, they would find all 
that lies beyond the red carpet of the 
lobby.
At the top of the main lobby stair
case, there are numerous stairwells 
that lead to large practice rooms for 
rehearsal, typical college classrooms, 
sound-proof piano rooms, and even 
an art gallery. Theres a lot to be dis
covered, but unless something 
changes, most students will continue 
to stay away.
The other day I told someone I had 
to go to Purnell, and they were literal
ly amazed, says Sarah Smith, a soph
v0Sn0. FoVr d/hnh
The Purnell Center for the Arts: insiders only, or cheapest shows on campus?
omore creative writing major. They 
said, Oh, my God! You go in there? 
Whats it like? as if it were some sort 
of country club.
Indeed, many students treat Purnell 
like an exclusive club they cant get 
into. And this comparison makes 
sense, since many non-dramats view 
drama majors as a group of entirely 
well dressed, good-looking, cell 
phone-using people. Its no wonder 
many CMU students find a compari
son to a gaggle of geese appropriate. 
In fact, its that seeming uniformity 
that turns many students off.
I dont know. They just seem like 
an entirely different set of students, 
like they go to an entirely different 
university, remarked one first-year 
student, who preferred not to give a 
name.
Its unfair, however, to come down 
too hard on the denizens of Purnell. 
They cant help the fact that they are 
forced to take classes with the same 
dozen people for four years. And they 
cant help the fact that the depart
ment actually schedules them to be in 
the building for the entirety of the 
day. Purnell is not a conservatory for 
drama; its just a separate depart
ment, like Physics or Englishone 
that happens to have its very own 
building. Unfortunately, those who 
run the School of Drama often treat it 
like a conservatory.
When most students are heading 
home for rest and relaxation, sopho
more acting major Jenny Gamell is 
preparing for a long evening of stage 
crew. Since sophomores, for the most 
part, arent yet in Purnells produc
tions, they do the unforgiving grunt 
work of maintaining the set. And after 
all this, its time to go home and do 
homework.
Its so manic being a student at 
Purnell. Plus, we see so much of each 
other that there are some days we just 
pray for someone different to turn up 
in here, explains Gamell. When my 
schedule is busy, I try to get people to 
meet me here. But they just get nerv
ous and ask things like, Well, should I 
meet you inside or outside? Whats 
appropriate? I wish I could just get it 
across that this place isnt such a big 
deal. You can come in. If anything, 
Gamell too is frustrated by the exclu
sivity of Purnell and want it to end. 
And her sentiments are shared Ijy 
other drama majors, as well.
Purnell definitely excludes out
siders, and thats definitely a bad 
thing for the students that study 
here, says Crystal Manich, a junior 
directing major. Yeah, its huge and 
set apart, but we want so badly to 
have more interaction with the rest of 
the student body. I think if we had 
more promotion of plays, it would be 
a good start. Too few students come to 
see the productions here, and I think 
if more were able to connect with 
what we do, theyd feel more comfort
able being around here.
wCAs wulMf,ifg nuAccrRMuNR
Almanac50years ago, on September 24,1952
The University experimented with a new policy, dry rush 
week. As part of a general attempt by the administration to 
make Carnegie Mellon a dry campus, drinking was not 
allowed during the recruitment of new fraternity members. 
This was considered a bad idea by most of the students; a sur
vey conducted by The Tartan showed unanimous disagree
ment with the new policy among students from majors as dis
parate as architecture, physics, and drama.
25years ago, on September 6,1977
The University announced plans to begin breaking ground 
on an experimental solar energy lab next to Doherty 
Apartment House in October of that year. The lab was 
designed to address problems of economical solar energy use 
and conservation techniques. The principle investigators 
were two of Carnegie Mellons own professors of mechanical 
engineering, with students also involved in various aspects of 
design, construction, and experimental usage of the facilities.10years ago, on September 8,1992
The 25th International Congress of Psychology ranked 
CMUs psychology department first in the world as most 
influential among researchers. Although the department did 
not produce the highest number of papers or garner the most 
citations, from 1986 to 1990, papers written by Carnegie 
Mellon professors and student researchers were cited the 
most often by leading psychological studies. 199 papers pro
duced by CMU researchers were cited a total of 1,213 times 
by various writers and researchers in Canada, the US, 
Germany, and the UK.
5 years ago, on September 2,1997
Carnegie Mellon University students were officially no 
longer permitted to call their alma mater CMU. The rights to 
the acronym had been given over to Central Michigan 
University, due to its eight year seniority over Carnegie 
Mellon. During student orientation, OCs and RAs were 
admonished not to use the acronym on posters or T-shirts. 
Pamphlets were sent out over the summer which included 
guidelines for proper usage, strongly encouraging students to 
say Carnegie Mellon instead.
1 year ago, on September 10, 2001
President Jared Cohon outlined a proposal for a new build
ing on the Carnegie Mellon campus. The commercially-oriented, 100,000 square foot facility would temporarily house 
several high-tech companies before being turned over for 
academic use within five years. To be built in the Panther 
Hollow ditch, the new structure would be equivalent in size 
to the Margaret Morrison building. Plans for a 300-car park
ing garage in the basement of the facility, valued at around 
$7.5 million, would result in an over ten percent increase in 
available on-campus parking. Cohon stressed, however, that 
nothing was yet finalized, but that the administration was 
attempting to gather feedback on the project from students 
and faculty alike.
hismMyNC b heNy,NA pNyyfNR
3Pillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

uitirep-vn
VlVtWf
Amazing pox-ridden scones
Amy Bickerton/ Junior Staff
Cooking in a small kitchen isnt so bad, when youve got the know
how and a good recipe for diseased-looking scones.
Aay proper chef worth his tall, white hat 
will insist that presentation is a crucial aspect 
of a meal. You wouldnt want to eat a wilted 
salad, you wouldnt want to eat soggy bread, 
and you certainly wouldnt want to eat any
thing that looks diseased.... Or would you?
In fact, one of the best breakfast recipes 
around is for raspberry scones that come out 
of the oven looking anything but fresh and 
pretty. If youre brave enough to give them a 
try, though, its easy to forget just how rashy 
and ill they look. After your first batch, youll 
quickly realize how easy they are to make, 
how healthy they are, and most importantly, 
how great they taste.
I originally tried this recipe with blueber
ries, but even though I ended up with a pic
ture-perfect and delicious batch of little, 
round pastries, I wasnt so excited about the 
way the exploded berries stained my baking 
sheet and mixing bowl. When I found rasp
berries on sale at Giant Eagle, a light bulb 
went on, and I decided that they would be a 
perfect substitution. I headed back to the 
kitchen dreaming of quaint, little, pink polkadotted scones. That was the last time I ever
thought of these scones as cute.
As soon as I started mixing the raspberries 
into the pastry dough, I sensed that some
thing was going horribly wrong. They werent 
incorporating as smoothly as the blueberries 
had. Their delicate skins were tearing at the 
slightest touch, and they bled their seedy guts 
more and more tragically with each knead
ing. The dough itself was becoming alarming
ly wet and slimy, so I hurriedly stuffed my 
concoction into the oven and didnt look back 
until 12 minutes later when the timer went 
off.
Sometimes, when babies are born, even 
the most loving parents are a bit startled by 
their newborns spotty, red bodies. The same 
is true of these raspberry scones. As much as
I wanted to believe that they looked even 
vaguely appetizing, I just couldnt. I only tast
ed them out of a sense of obligation, financial 
guilt about the money I had spent on the 
ingredients, and a fear that all of my friends 
would laugh at their poor, pox-y little faces. 
On the first nervous bite, though, these rasp
berry scones won me over.
They are light, airy, fresh-tasting, and any 
number of other adjectives you can think of
as being desirable for pastries. Once youre 
chewing, youll barely remember how 
hideous they looked on the way into your 
mouth, and if it helps, you can always close 
your eyes while youre eating. And if the taste 
werent enough, these scones have some 
other virtues.
Firstly, neither the list of ingredients nor 
the procedure is very demanding. Take a ten 
dollar bill to the grocery store, stock up on a 
few staples that will last you through several 
batches, give yourself thirty minutes (tops) in 
a cramped Morewood Gardens kitchen, and 
youve got it made. There is no Martha 
Stewart-like finesse involved, as the recipe 
reads like a kindergarten list of instructions, 
and you only need a mixing bowl or two, a 
fork, and a cookie sheet to end up with a 
mouth-watering finished product. It doesnt 
matter that you might have to share your 
kitchen space with your floormates, or that 
your apartment only affords you a few disor
derly inches of countertop space. These 
scones are within your reach.
In terms of nutrition, these scones can do 
no wrong. The typical college student just 
isnt eating the proper food. A single break
fast at Schatz can easily contain more than 
the 2000 calories and 65 fat grams that a 
healthy diet allows for the whole day. These 
scones, however, quite satisfying on their 
own, have only about 150 calories and five 
grams of fat apiece, leaving plenty of room to 
splurge on richer foods later in the day with
out feeling too guilty.
Such are the virtues of pox-y raspberry 
scones, and if youre ready to give them a 
shot, heres the gloriously simple recipe:
1 cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
11/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons butter, slightly softened
1 egg, beaten
3 tablespoons milk
1/2 cup raspberries, washed and dried
1. Preheat your oven to 400F and lightly 
grease a cookie sheet with butter or non-stick 
spray.
2. In a mixing bowl, combine the flour, 
sugar, baking powder, and salt. If you can, its 
best to sift the flour  to give it a quick shake 
through a strainer, getting any lumps out  
so that your batter is as light and smooth as it 
can be.
3. Add the butter to the flour mixture. The 
point here isnt to fully mix the butter into the 
flour, but to break it up into little lumps. The 
dough should look fairly crumbly at this 
point.
4. Add the beaten egg and milk to the flour 
mixture and blend thoroughly, until the 
dough sticks together well. The addition of a 
tiny bit of lemon juice at this point might also 
be a wise idea, since a tiny bit of something 
sour in a recipe helps to enhance the overall 
sweetness. NOTE: This is the last time youll 
need to use your fork, and it might also be the 
last time your batter wont completely repulse 
you.
5. The tricky bit: Using your hands, very 
gently knead the raspberries into the dough. 
This may not be a pleasant feeling. You might 
think youre doing it all wrong, but youre 
probably right on track. The whole mess gets 
very wet and sticky, so dont fiddle with it for 
very long. If the batter is just too gooey to 
even handle, though, add a little flour to help 
keep things sticking together.
6. Pull the dough apart into six balls and 
space them out on the cookie sheet. Sprinkle 
them lightly with sugar. In theory, the sugar 
will help the scones turn a nice golden-brown 
color in the oven, but their tan is usually hard 
to see when all you can notice is their rashy, 
red appearance. Still, the sugar is sweet and 
crunchy, and thats reason enough to include 
it.
7. Stick your raw, baby scones in the oven 
and run. Just be sure to run back about 12 
minutes later, because thats when theyll be 
done. Once they cool off a bit, theyre ready 
to enjoy.
Of course you can try these scones with any 
number of more robust and healthy looking 
fruits (cranberries or the original blueberries, 
for instance), but that just wouldnt be as 
much fun. Certainly, some of the charm of 
these scones is owing to their pox, and there 
arent many things you can say that about. So 
make a batch or two and youre all set with 
nutritious breakfast food. And hopefully, this 
little kitchen experiment will help you realize 
that good food is well in reach for a college 
student.
VMfC,N wRRiig him nuAcc
&k(Pillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

Opening the Adamson Writers Series
The ears of a professor are one of the most vital accessories that he or she 
possesses. Each day, the professor hears the inquisitive voices of his or her 
students in the classroom and then later, perhaps in passing, the excited 
intonation in which they discuss the upcoming party at a particular frater
nity. It is very rare, however, that the voice of the professor is heard outside 
of academic discourse.
It is for this reason that the English Department created Adamson Visiting 
Writers Series, a reading exhibition in which faculty who have recently pub
lished their works, as well as visiting writers, have a chance to speak with 
students, colleagues, and community members on a more personal level. 
Jim Daniels, Professor of English and 
Director of the Creative Writing 
Program, and Terrance Hayes,
Assistant Professor of Creative 
Writing, will celebrate their recent 
publications on September 9 at this 
years Adamson Visiting Writers 
Series.
Each year the Visiting Writers 
Series invites writers to read their 
individual work with hopes of giving 
different perspectives of the human 
persona through poetry, prose, or 
other forms of writing. The title of 
Danielss newest collection of poetic 
verse, RgcN BRNc vMRPs[- UcaaNRhg 
UNCMAy was a creative splice of the 
beauty and tragedy that a person 
experiences throughout his or her life.
The poems in this [collection] are 
a lot stronger than my previous series 
of poems, said Daniels as he com
pared the tonality of RgcN BRNc vMRPs[ 
- UcaaNRhg UNCMA with his simultane
ous publication, vRggsMOA -e,sAy and 
preceding publication rMsCNsAN ]RNAE
They have a lot to do with family and 
working class issues.
Daniels, a native of Detroit, has been a prominent figure on the Carnegie 
Mellon English faculty for the past twenty-one years and this year will be his 
first time reading at the Adamson Series. Danielss forthcoming collection 
of writing, vsNMaRN nCesAy will be in the form of short stories and will be pub
lished in 2003.
Hayes had not always expressed an interest in writing. His passion did not 
surface until his post-graduate career at the University of Pittsburgh. In
August of 2001 he became part of the Creative Writing Program faculty 
after participating in the Adamson Visiting Writers Series in Fall of 2000.
[Carnegie Mellon] has one of the most active creative writing communi
ties that I have ever experienced, said Hayes as he discussed his profes
sional duties (conducting writing workshops, Survey of Form series, and 
leading readings and discussions).
In 1999 Hayes won the Kate Tufts Discovery Award and a 2000 Whiting 
Writers Award for his first book of poetry, x,AH,eCM x,ARHE In 2001, ]RD 
'agRH won the National Poetry Series Open Competition.
The poems in ]RD 'agRH are 
more quirky and associative 
than those in x,AH,eCM x,ARHyW 
said Hayes, veteran to the 
Adamson Visiting Writers 
Series. My goal was to write 
]RD 'agRH and be who I am.
The 2002-2003 Adamson 
Visiting Writers Series has 
scheduled a writer to come in 
every month from September to 
April in order to present their 
work. The visiting participants 
include Mark Brazaitis, Major 
Jackson, Scott Saunders, Susan 
Stewart, C. Michael Curtis, 
Kathleen Lee and Larrissa 
Szporluk. Carnegie Mellon fac
ulty are invited to present their 
works so that they can be on a 
closer level with their students.
The students began to ask 
why faculty never read [their 
works], said Daniels. We try 
to teach by example [at CMU] 
and giving students the oppor
tunity to hear a wide range of published writers present their work and talk 
about their writing is very important. It allows our student writers to imag
ine what their next steps might be, and it exposes them to some of the best 
writing being done today. But it also benefits the larger Pittsburgh commu
nity of writers because it gives everyone a chance to meet writers whose 
work they've read, and it gives everyone a chance to celebrate good writ
ing.
heNRy PisbyMfg w,,uE WMyybiH DCMuiR
eUR E(v )cu(ia cuW miMMiu<i c[i
efmR fWcvku H((t(u^ eM(tiM 9iM(i
elLR 9idtivOiM 9r 8dv
elRlR fWcvku e(u^r hcxiM caa
&U9mR FMii
Pillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

P&geWat
Common sense self-defense
Resources
RAINN (Rape, Abuse and Incest National 
Network). LxlWWx,N,x$dwk 0noh.0V 
Rr5 Z990mVn $r0tVo.rk Zg0oV0pVr 7C 
/hmS9ut0fE D t0f9uerryk
RAD (Rape Aggression Defencse).
PPrSrt pf M0S.r3or 1rVVh. M0aJm9 
dhVo2rk Z .0noh.0V JSh3S0a hPPrSrt PSrr hP 
2/0S3rk Rr99oh.9 eoVV pr hPPrSrt 
RrJnraprS 7N ,xLW Ja o. *r0. $0VV 
DNWWE RrJnraprS 7l lxC Ja z0yrS $0VV 
7qNZ  zk 1hSr 2V099r9 eoVV n0yr JV02r 
h. 2nhprS IE L7E 7q 0.t 7,k FmnmSr 
t0nr9 nh pr 0..hm.2rtk FhS ahSr o.PhSO
a0noh. 0phmn YZs 2V099r9c 2h.n02n 
M0aJm9 dhVo2r PPo2rS 1o2yr.9 0n 
lmlb@andrew. emu. edu.
Physical Intervention Training 2V099r9k 
wSo2 Raon/ hPPrS9 JSog0nr 2V099r9 nh 
3ShmJ9k $r 20. pr Sr02/rt 0n 
esmith@sanda.biz. MV099r9 arrn h.2r PhS 
9o5 erry9 0n NqWD zVh99ha Yh0t o. 
donn9pmS3/k
SafeWalk ghVm.nrrS9 eoVV e0Vy 9nmtr.n9 
0n .o3/n nh n/roS tr9no.0noh.9 9mSShm.to.3 
20aJm9k R0Pr*0Vy 20. pr Sr02/rt 0n 5lx 
RZFwk
Shuttle/Escort eoVV tShJ 9nmtr.n9 0n n/roS 
hPPx20aJm9 tr9no.0noh.9 PSha 20aJm9k 
M0VV :lxYbswk
Campus Police 20. pr Sr02/rt 0n 0VV 
/hmS9 pf 20VVo.3 5lx7q7qk
Sexual Assault Advisors. ThVm.nrrS 
3ShmJ n/0n arrn9 Sr3mV0SVf PhS nS0o.o.3E 
hmnSr02/E 0.t rtm20noh. 0phmn n/r JSrO
gr.noh. hP 9r5m0V 0990mVn o. hmS 2haamO
.onfk wa0oV 1o2/rVVr 4S0p 6mgrab8# hS 
20VV X8-2075.
Vjampus Police are offering Rape Aggression Defense 
(RAD) to the campus community, later this September. These 
classes  for women only  offer self-defense instruction 
based on simplicity and effectiveness against assault. RAD 
classes are free to all female campus members. RAD is a 
national program, the most popular of its kind, and is utilized 
by many universities across the country. RAD differs from 
martial arts clubs and schools, though both of these forms of 
instruction offer women applicable self defense.
RAD classes focus specifically on rapid and strictly practical 
self-defense techniques such as using keys or other common 
items as weapons against assailants. Martial arts instruction 
is more of a long term commitment that includes overall mind 
and body development along with self defense techniques.
While martial arts classes teach only physical technique, 
RAD classes focus on both physical and non-physical reactions 
to attempted assault. The non-physical avoidance instruction 
includes tips about being more aware of ones surroundings 
and knowing how to interpret them.
The key to the eight-hour RAD program is self-reliance; 
given the proper instruction, participants learn how to make 
the right decisions, and in the unfortunate event of an assault, 
survive it. At the end of the course, an optional four-hour ses
sion is held where participants have the opportunity to prac
tice their self defense skills on an armored instructor.
Similar classes are available from non-campus sources as 
well. One such course is available from Physical Intervention 
Training, which also offer martial arts classes. This company 
offers two classes that address womens self-defense: one with 
a total of 24 hours of class time and the other 64 hours. Both
of these classes span over a six-week period. These classes are 
similar to RAD; they address not only physical defense, but 
decision making and psychological concepts.
The difference between programs such as RAD and martial 
arts training is notable. They both teach physical defense 
techniques, but learning a martial art is much more time
intensive and not all material learned is applicable in assault 
situations.
Self-defense is more practical in the short term while mar
tial arts are a long-term discipline, said Eric Smith, Physical 
Intervention Training instructor.
Martial arts trainings greater time commitment allows for a 
more permanent absorbance of self defense movements. The 
disadvantages, with respect to womens self-defense, lie in the 
fact that the material taught is not necessarily geared toward 
assault situations. Initially, most schools focus on the physical 
condition more than actual self defense.
RAD type programs stress simplicity in movement so that 
any woman, young or old, can effectively apply these move
ments to defend herself. According to CMU Police Officer 
Leon Mickens, one of the RAD instructors on campus, selfdefense movements taught in RAD classes are meant to be 
effective for women of all ages, even a grandmother.
Of course RAD classes and their variants are not meant as a 
comprehensive solution to womens self-defense. Using all 
available resources is recommended by the CMU Police and 
most self-defense instructors.
BA,,NR wbtleCNMRg nuAccrRMuNR
Madoka Katayama/ ZSn Rn0PP
Pillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

Member FDIC
The PNC Bank Student Plan. 
Free checking and 24/7 access. 
So you can concentrate on 
more serious subjects.
ft \L&r i Mica(i toct toiMi cMi vkMi (vdkMtcut to(u^ tocu kMM[(u^ cOkAt Ocux(u^B e(to toi \L& 
hcux 9tAWiut \acur [kA'aa ^it -Mii <oi<x(u^r c -Mii <oi<x <cMW cuW akt k-Mii t(viB SkA'aa -(uW toct toi 
<kuXiu(iu<i k3r3NN \L& fmnr iO Ocux(u^ cuW 24sG dokui iMX(<i -Mii Ad c akt k[kAM dMi<(kA t(viB 
9k -kM vkMi -Mii t(vi cuW ai ocair <oi<x kAt toi \L& hcux 9tAWiut \acu tkWc[B &caa 8GG \L&-1NNNr 
kM X((t du<OcuxB<kvstAWiutOcux(u^ kM tkd O[ toi &Mc(^ 9tMiit U--(<i ct 46NN F(-to fXiuAiB
 PlMCBATvK
The Thinking Behind The Money,
Pillbox: a new dose, every 
Monday afternoon
*7
Pillbox September 9, 2002r

---------------------------------------------------

Where it matters most.
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in 
everything from defense and commercial electronics to business aviation and 
special mission aircraft. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of 
exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier and safer throughout the world. 
Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning Night$ightTM technology.
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In 
return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, 
down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules 
designed to respect your quality of life.
Visit our Career Booth 
on Thursday, September 19
So, you can still show off all those great qualities of yours outside workE too.
At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, 
retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.
Opportunities are available in the following areas:
Computer Science 
Computer Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Math 
Physics
Chemical Engineering 
Aeronautical Engineering 
Finance/Accounting 
Human Resources
check out our website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further
information, including a calendar of recruiting events. Start your job search by completing a 
student profile. U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.
Bringing technology to the edgeRaytheon
Pillbox wants you to feed it. 
Email ehr@andrew.cmu.edu
Pillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

x$Ru
Midtown isliving well, vengefully
Pop-punk? Think again, because these guys definitely 
are not. Throw in a couple edgy riffs, a few rousing lyrics, 
and three singers, and then maybe, at that point, you 
could produce something remotely close to the talent and 
sound of New Jersey boys Midtown.
Hours upon hours of practicing and a multitude of 
basement shows helped Midtown 
climb through the piles of demo tapes 
stashed on desks, giving them the abil
ity to shine on their own.
Comprised of Rob Hitt (drums),
Tyler Rann (guitar/vocals), Gabe 
Saporta (bass/vocals), and Heath 
Saraceno (guitar/vocals), the guys 
started jamming during the fall of 
1998. While still first-years at Rutgers 
University, they released their UCHMRlRHs 
al 'Rls EP in February 1999. Before 
long, Midtown was picked up by MCAs 
indie label Drive-Thru Records, home 
of New Found Glory and Finch.
The boys first LP, UCPs Ncs BaMeoy
'aAs Ncs rRMey nicely showcased the raw 
and slightly unpolished sound of 
Midtown. However, two years later, 
their brainchild was born. With the release of their sec
ond LP, 'RPRhg Bsee RA Ncs -sAN 0sPshgsy Midtown shocked 
the world.
The hard rocking vegetarian/vegan quartet puts more 
than just their heart into their work; they put in their 
whole being. With the slightly political, highly relatable, 
and wholesomely truthful lyrics, Midtown escapes the 
standard pop culture gobbledygook and, in their own 
unique style, successfully conveys their personal motto of 
staying true to oneself.
From the beginning of the CD to the last few seconds, 
the guitar riffs, intricate bass lines, and powerful drums 
not only prove that Midtown has matured since Save the 
World, but pack in more punch than would be expected of
a 4.5-inch circular disk.
Ranging from the explosive anthem Become What 
You Hate, to the melodic One Last Time, and the cul
minating track Find Comfort in Yourself, each song 
reveals a unique instrumental and vocal blend. Yes, that's 
right, a vocal blend. You dont get just one great singer. 
No, not two. You get three! Count them! Rann, Saporta, 
and Saraceno. Each equally 
demonstrates his own talent 
and they work together to cre
ate a sound just as tasty as 
Skibos oreo smoothies.
Moral of the story: If punk 
rip-offs are getting sickening 
and you crave something a tad 
more original, give 'RPRhg Bsee 
RA Ncs -sAN 0sPshgs a try. 
Though not textbook punk, it 
still helps to define the terms 
in which lies the true punk 
genre.
I dont think punk is defini
tive of a sound as much as it is 
an attitude and a culture 
where that music comes from. 
Id say a punk band comes from a place where music 
means more to them than just entertainment. The music 
is used to express emotions and ideals that are real, and 
the bands and the people who see them are on the same 
level, stated Saporta (Alternative Press). Midtown does 
just that.
So if your ears are screaming for a new treat, give them 
a little Midtown. Or, if actually paying for a CD is not cool, 
use the ten bucks you saved by downloading at KaZaA 
and buy a ticket for their show with Recover, Taking Back 
Sunday, and Armor for Sleep at Club Laga on September 
17.
DsMy Stccg TtfMiR nuAccrRMuNR
Photo, album cover courtesy Drive-thru Records
1otnhe.E eon/ Yr2hgrSE v0yo.3 z02y 
Rm.t0f 0.t ZSahS PhS RVrrJ 
RrJnraprS LD 0n DJa 
MVmp i030
KLW o. 0tg0.2rE KL7 t0f hP 9/he
*$c
*$wc
*$wYwc
MZR$c
v/r Pm.y hP mgr Z&&f Ym.y
Its definitely a challenge to take a band seriously when they have a name like Ouve 
Azzy Runk. Upon first listening to the band, which the producers of the Dark Night 
Cabaret series have titled as Pittsburghs Itinerant Funk Masters, its a bit difficult for 
someone who doesnt ordinarily listen to funk to get into the music. Giving the band a 
second shot, however, is definitely worth the effort.
The bands latest album, nMssy which was released 
September 7 at the Hazlett Theater, manages to blend ele
ments of funk, rock, and jazz-fusion with solid vocals and 
tight harmonies. Tunes such as Body of Water are both 
catchy and complex, which is definitely a difficult combi
nation to find nowadays. Ouve successfully transitions 
from ballads like Wealth to bluegrass-influenced songs 
such as Brickyard 1931. The fact that the band accom
plished this feat is especially surprising because this 
marks their first full-length studio album.
nMss is a dense compilation of the bands various influences that becomes more enjoy
able with each listen. Anyone who didnt get to catch Ouves eclectic set on Saturday 
should definitely consider check them out at one of their upcoming local shows.
Friday, September 27, at the Quiet Storm on Penn Avenue.
qNOAf vibMf,ifg TtfMiR nuAccrRMuNR
*$c er Z&&f Ym.y
*$wc RrJnraprS 7DE IJa
*$wYwc (morn RnhSa MhPPrr/hm9r 
6NCqW dr.. Zgr.mr# 
MZR$c MhgrS 2/0S3r Jh99opVr
Photo courtesy of Haldane Yall Productions
Ql
Pillbox September 9, 20027

---------------------------------------------------

A9-T
Spontaneous exit art by survivors
Tartan File Photo
TA the anniversary of the largest-scale terrorist 
attack in American history approaches, the Center for 
the Arts in Society and the STUDIO for Creative Inquiry 
at Carnegie Mellon are collecting pieces to be displayed 
in an exhibition entitled Commemorating September 
11: Art, Artists, and the Community. Letters, poems, 
drawings, paintings, songs, collages, photographs, and 
other works are being collected from local artists and 
community members. The event is also sponsored by 
the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts.
Art will be showcased on the Carnegie Mellon 
University campus from September 11 to 15. 
According to Timothy Haggerty, Associate Director of 
the Center for the Arts in Society, the event is a some
what spontaneous event; therefore, it will be dis
played not in a gallery, but on the sidewalks near the 
Purnell Center and the University Center, and in Baker 
Hall, Purnell, and the College of Fine Arts building.
Art historian Robert Atkins will be on campus for the 
event, to give a lecture, The Arts, Community, and 
Activism: A Meditation Inspired by the Events of 
September 11. Atkins, who founded 911  The 
September 11 Project: Cultural Intervention in Civic 
Society, is also media-arts editor for the Media 
Channel.
Atkins will also facilitate a town meeting, which will 
also feature representatives from the University as well 
as Pittsburgh Professionals. Among them will be Tova 
Tarr, clinical psychologist, Gwen Elliot, former com
mander of the Pittsburgh Police, Robert Blose Jr., fed
eral security director of Pittsburgh International 
Airport, and Andress Appolon, fifth-year scholar at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Tova Tarr is a clinical psychologist originially from 
Israel. She seeks to provide understanding of traumat
ic and violent events and personal experiences. Former 
Pittsburgh police commander Gwen Elliot resigned 
from police after 9-11 and began volunteer efforts to 
become active in the community.
Appolon will address student perspectives. Born in 
Haiti and raised in New York, she will discuss what it is 
like to be a first-generation American. Robert Blose, Jr., 
a security guard at Pittsburgh International Airport, 
initially wondered if he was to talk about art, but 
Atkins wanted someone who was present in security 
from an official point of view to present.
The lecture will take place on September 11 in the 
Singleton Room of Roberts Engineering Hall from 4  
5:30 pm. The town meeting will follow, in McConomy 
Auditorium from 7:30  9 pm.
The program is a montage trying to contextualize 
the past year, said Robert Atkins. It addresses the 
general misreading of art during social crisis as a form 
of therapy. Artists have always been engaged socially.
More contemporary situations include AIDS and impe
rialism in South America, but social activism is rarely 
taught in contemporary art history classes. I dont 
think theres a hierarchy betwen inwardly-oriented 
abstractions and what may be considered political 
art.
Since the beginning of the epidemic, Atkins has writ
ten widely about AIDS and in 1990 co-curated, "From 
Media to Metaphor: Art About AIDS," the first travel
ling museum exhibition surveying art about AIDS. He 
was also one of the four founders of Visual AIDS, the 
New York-based organization responsible for the annu
al Day Without Art, the Red Ribbon Project, and many 
other educational activities.
The best AIDS-related art came about 5-6 years 
after it became an epidemic. Time and space from an 
event is necessary. Some artists lives, especially New 
York artists lives ,have been changed profoundly. Work 
in 2003 will be different from work in 2001, he con
tinued.
The program took much planning. Atkins began to 
lecture on the attacks last December, and started plan
ning for the forum in June.
The exhibition is not only to commemorate the vic
tims of the bombing of the World Trade Center and the 
Pentagon, but also, according to the call for artwork by 
Haggerty, to examine the role that art plays in the 
process of remembrance. He states in an e-mail, 
Historically, the university serves as a center for ana
lytic discussion; in the wake of the attacks, we are invit
ing the residents of our community into a discourse on 
the role of art and society. The lecture and the town 
meeting will further examine this idea and also the 
impact of violence upon society and creativity. Atkins 
will view the communitys artwork and incorporate the 
message into both events.
As an artist he speaks with an open perspective, 
said Judith Modell, director of the Studio for Creative 
Inquiry. There will be videotapes, poetry performanc
es, and a ballet group, among other things.
Robert asked participants to think about what it 
means professionally as well as personally, she said. 
We really felt it was important to define arts broadly 
to address 9-11, and to define what commemoration 
means.
Submissions are still being accepted until September 
10 at 5 pm. The works must be on a flat 8.5 x 11 sheet 
of paper, or a 10-minute VHS tape or 5-minute cassette. 
All work is to be submitted to the office of STUDIO for 
Creative Inquiry located in the College of Fine Arts 
building, room 111. Responses will be available for 
pickup by the artist on September 16 and 17.
N-l hiRfNyMt,g nuAccrRMuNR 
k qifM-A SAuuAg w,,uE WMyybiH DCMuiR
Pillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

A9-T
mm^
Currently showing
Since no galleries have openings this week, we offer a run-down of 
exhibits currently open, or that are opening soon, in local art galleries.
Andy Warhol Museum
Strange Messenger: The Work of Patti Smith
September 28 - January 25
(412)237-8300
The Warhol will display singer/songwriter Patti Smiths 
drawings, which meld together text and images. Smiths 
original manuscripts, photography and rare short films, 
including a collaboration between Smith and photogra
pher Robert Mapplethorpe, called Still/Moving, will 
accompany the drawings. This exhibition of Patti Smiths 
photography will open with a Good Fridays event at The 
Warhol on September 27, and a performance by Smith at 
The Byham Theater on September 28.
d/hnh 2hmSnr9f hP nnnon.tpmbomt2Backward on Forward 
Immaculate Perception 
September 21 - November 2 
(412)421-4117
Immaculate Perception features artist Vic Reynaud along with two guests, Rick Bach and 
Ray Appleby. [The exhibition] is an installation of religious objects, Serah Swan of 
Backward on Forward said. Its [Reynauds] collection, but he also did the photography and 
designed the metalwork, which include the frames and shelving. Also, the Side Orders will 
provide live entertainment on the opening night.
Carnegie Museum of Art 
Panopticon
October 11 - August 23 
(412)622-3200
As the Carnegies exhibition Designing Oakland comes to a close on September 22, as well 
as ]seea x Cps mA[ rMa,D tdcRfRNRah al tpsMgRhg mhNsMhCNRahCe TMNRANA on September 29, 
the museum will host Panopticon, a visual arts spectacular at Heinz Gallery. According to 
the website, this exhibition is based on a 19th century concept in which European and 
American art galleries were filled with paintings, sculpture, and virtuoso furniture. This 
show will feature about 500 selections of eclectic art from the Carnegie.
Mattress Factory 
James Turrell: Into the Light 
Skyspace, Unseen Blue 
Through April 30 
(412)231-3169
This exhibit features James Turrells optically deceptive work with light, along with installa
tions by artists Lutz, Kusama, Anastasi, Highstein, Wexler and Woodrow. Also, on September 
14, a part of Turrells exhibition, Skyspace, Unseen Blue, will be open to the public during sun
rise and sunset. This outdoor structure was built for observing atmospheric changes while the 
sun rises and sets.
One World Gallery
American Diners: Work by Steve Boksenbaum
Variations on a Theme and Paris Again & Again: Work by David Bliwas 
Through December 31
Ongoing: All That Jazz, February in Paris, Pittsburgh Stuff 
(412)421-9500
One World Gallery, a two-year-old retail and art show space, is displaying a collection 
of oil and watercolor paints by Boksenbaum and Bliwas, the former of Pittsburgh diners, the 
latter of interpretations of Paris. Boksenbaum has done work on a number of local diners, 
including Charlies Diner on Penn Avenue. Bliwas, the gallerys owner, works with photogra
phy and other mediums to produce his own hand-colored prints. For example, hell do a 
very subtle subway scene made with vegetable oils, said Harry Farzee of One World 
Gallery.
Pittsburgh Glass Center 
Artists Crossing Lines 
November 1 - January 3 
(412)365-2145
As the Pittsburgh Glass Center features The River: Work by Robin Stanaway until September 
15, several CMU-affiliated artists, which include Department of Fine Arts staff and instructors, 
will show their glasswork. These artists, who usually work with mediums other than 
glass, joined with glass artists to create the pieces at this exhibition, Allison Pultz of the 
Pittsburgh Glass Center explained. They came up with some crazy ideas glass artists might 
not have thought of, Pultz said.
d/hnh 2hmSnr9f hP nnnopSwnmtbaogm909r9Vrtl09.uho7p70lw.h.n.,
Wood Street Gallery 
Shared Moments 
Through October 19 
(412)471-5605
The downtown gallery two floors above the Wood Street T Station is hosting the US debut 
of Dutch video artist Peter Bogers, whose work features visceral organic imagery and sound.
PifM ARuifNg atfMiR nuAccrRMuNR
Pillbox September 9, 2002il

---------------------------------------------------

Do you have any regrets about your past, It is time to let that all go 
and live your life, Paris.
I have to go now.
So how is your first day going up there, Paris?
It's nice everything is going well, just getting into things 
here at Manning...
Well I think you will fit in and find your niche in no time.Yeah, I think I've said enough, good luck up there.
DATING STINKS
FROM "P. H. D.QUALIFYING EXAMS f 
STINK / I
LACK OF 
MONEY N STINKS
Same old story: Word meets picture. Word falls in love with picture. Picture is born to the upper 
caste. Word is poor, but honest. Picture, in an unguarded moment, confesses kinky olive fetish. 
Comics. You know 'em. You love 'em. You want to make 'em. Email jcreed@andrew.cmu.edu.
Shades of Manning by Robert cobb
http://fade.to/manning.com
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham
HELLO.' WELCOME TO...
PILED HIGHER AND DEEPER
A COMIC STRIP CHRONICLE OF 
THE WARM, TOUCHING, AND EMO
TIONALLY COMPLEX EXPERIEN
CES OF GRADUATE STUDENTS. 
HERE IS A SAMPLE OF THE DRAMA 
YOU CAN EXPECT 
IN THE FOLLOWING WE
duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
o
A duck? You wish to know about a duck? Well, my 
children, let me tell you about Quackers the Duck, the 
most daring duck I ever had the honor of knowing 
back in my earlier days. You see, I was in the African 
plains hunting wildebeest, as I was wont to do during 
those times, when suddenly I was pounced upon by a 
pride of lions. There was naught that I could do, and I had nearly given up 
hope, but then I distinctly heard the angry quacking of Quackers the 
Duck. In a flash, the lions were off me, and all that I could see was a flur
ry of feathers and flesh, engaged in a horrific battle to the death. When all 
was said and done, I was confronted by a single duck standing in the midst 
of the carnage, a lone feather still clinging tenaciously to his skin. 
Quackers, for that was his name, plucked the remaining feather and hand
ed it to me, saying so that you might always remember me. He then 
turned around and walked off into the gathering mist with more dignity 
than any duck I have seen since.
The Count by Christina Dinwoodie (MEuctooEnW
BB (oc^or^eAe c 
c<V
Cy OO
c,
I /V\pCs.lrl ^rvV f
HycA 
Ar\A OVWACC
^ Co. M -jCVes \v^U_ -for Lyr.' 
So UsL^sei-jo
muo AcaF,eLam9 BtPblLx
UO*AE TO MAKiy STRANGE
i^IDWONPeRfULCREATuREr3...
N TgRWRTHn,eNTlWD B,NT gsSinRq TdoR 
Voracious acoow, 
TdORRvCeRuu Ngn 
s,hhDWWHu-kCCReqqq
WUW.phdcomic.com
ANP,?RUAPS THE WOSTWySTRVOOS,
qM,tfCNR,uiiC 
CREMUREOf THEM Ml:
hhrol diNn wrsnljrh
Nntitmal Grogrnphic
presents?theGRADSTUDENTCall of the Wild
ttPillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

jj uE c ^scQ Ho (gDMRHcCMz) 
http://www.geocities.com/tyler_and_fred/11:45 by Ed Ryan sA9nW
TARNChT CiefaR THAT I
couu> GET Pterry edtiofX <ny -frltnk <rver
J[1 ?!*/ 50Aie vito j 'TWy 
+Bok + <** * chJe/^e-fe vsc 
+K. coo+r#lltr5 iwl4li ihexr 
^jSQM^/ |L /5J
H6Y, ptE. IT L.O0K5 
Cti YO^ HAD  r-' 
LOtfC M6HT.
& /eh. I was vp //
d,t5w. Uo
Harold and the Other Guy by Bob Rosthttp://www.andrew.cmu.edu/-rrost/harold
That sounds ominously 
like a shovel hitting 
someone's heod. I'd 
better check it out.
hello my name is 
stuart i want to 
be your friend
Harold and the Other Guy" does not discriminate on basis of race. All else, however, is up for grabs
Harold! What in the 
name of Jean-Louis 
Gasse do you think 
you're doing?Not yet there isn't.
Monty by Jim Meddick
I UER fmilY, mm WlU-RUtE TUE WORlP m> WEM Will BE KEPT IM CAES FOR BPEEWJGViANVlO SEE I Yu$
HEP PO HE I [ k i 1 EHVZOME ) A $
VWCE... J / f\ *
vftWroY wert stili wmnkte YOU SB& A rwsr PUSVNESSES, \NTWE >SUT WONVEfcJ 'MillFUTURE FoplfAAKE STRVES Ibi i WAEM? j THE YWJESAilE 
&XW TRAPSvmwce-youY ppecawmoN 
'WEARING? J 0O016S. THEY 
VtfSMri1 nww we to i6UttfSe.1H6 m J W ctutRNEEE
m?y WTH&WWP&, Ks/i, NVVJTAMT IMSeCTS 
J2T THESftEOf 'S W A,^TOfAOBIUSS J y\ Will ROAM /^xmewzTU...
/ OK, > ( PISREAK?TUfcT FIRST .ppcMovjNCEifErn'.
HER.MR.?lJ...tQOK W THIS S/J^eT 
dO(#HAL WITH YOUR PRECONlTtONi 
6061ES AMP TEH NUE WHICH STOCKS /. lOCKCODlNTHEBJTJPE... 7
W SOME Y NOT NOW.sumimaoiz ) m. ?\ is
v VW... \4 PEERINS 
WTO W ,, W\ FUTURE VJVTVA v ) V PRECOGNITO 
iV.W fclk Q0661ESWISH? 'NHWTO  YOU S&E?
JmewAArtEP IKIEBWWWS10N&U yCYBERClONES 
<mJW\E 9/8 2//1THROUGH IT THIS WAY, 
V IT UX>KSLIKE^THE .,
miKWE\NONE/WNVE-.
Wi TO... 7toes, ^ 
\M-^rrwosiwvjiweCnn ' H0106RAPHIC 
V5 V IN^RFAtE 
/fK-- fcA COUNT?
W?/.-lET ME UWK 3456704 346ho wth66in3tn 34gnsh
'NHOM.-.&ieRYTHlN LOOKS ) LIKE "THE OETSOMS uLTJ
i ave cd/cd9
Y ^ mi SOPHISTICMEP V NPTICS...UOTK 
N% ) /HWW-ftmRA / 'VrV/A WWAMSTBj?/
' LOOK FURTHER INTO THE i> FUTUREWNMft...I PONT SEE ANYONE 11^ 
YOUR NEW? k future...
FURTHER.Will , EMERFlNP 
TRUE LOVEFURWERm' 1 SEE S0MEM6- 
N SEAUTlFUl v ;xTq[ y
1^
Pillbox September 9, 2002lo

---------------------------------------------------

Dilbert
by Scott Adams
AND I NEED A CODE 
FOR CHARGING MY 
PROJECTS EXPENSES.
NO. I HATE 
YOUR PROJECT.
V A
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF 
YOU HATE IT. YOU'RE 
JUST THE GUY WHO 
ASSIGNS CODES.
WHY IS EVERYTHING 
IN THIS COMPANY 
SO FREAKIN' HARD?
BECAUSE OF 
PEOPLE LIKE 
YOU.
MOUSE TRAINING
WHO WANTS TO SHARE 
AN OPINION ON WHY 
MOUSE TRAINING IS 
IMPOR
TANT?
TODAY I REALIZED 
I HATE EVERYONE 
IN THE ENTIRE 
WORLD.
I USED TO THINK I 
MIGHT LIKE SOME 
PEOPLE I HADN'T 
MET. BUT NOW I 
THINK THEY'RE
WEASELS 
TOO.
-2) J
HOW ABOUT A WIDEEYED AND INNOCENT 
CHILD WHO LOVES 
YOU UNCONDITION
ALLY?
MOUSE TRAINING
TODAY YOU WILL 
LEARN HOW TO AVOID 
PREMATURE 
CLICKCONTORT YOUR FACE 
AND VISUALIZE 
WHAT YOU LOOK 
LIKE WITH A 
CONTORTED FACE.
NOW PAIR OFF AND 
WE'LL DO SOME 
FINGER EXERCISES 
THAT I CALL"THE 
THREE STOOGES."
I'M SIGNING UP 
PEOPLE FOR THE 
MANDATORY MOUSE 
TRAINING CLASS.
I SEE YOU'RE USING 
A WESTERN GRIP. 
THAT'S JUST BEGGING 
FOR CARPAL TUNNEL.
WEAK MUSCLES. . .
I'LL PUT YOU IN THE
TWO-HANDED MOUSE
CLASS.
IIlk 0UCH
s B jgs r /
___-A__
OUR SURVEY OF 
CUSTOMER SATIS
FACTION SHOWS 
IMPROVEMENT.
THE FOCUS GROUP 
SPONTANEOUSLY 
ATTACKED OUR 
RESEARCHERS USING 
NUMBER TWO PENCILS 
AS SHIVS.
THAT'S
AN
IMPROVE
MENT?
LAST YEAR 
THE ATTACK 
WAS PRE
MEDITATED.
Over the Hedge

by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
GENERIC SNACK CAKES'... 
CHEAf> STORE-LABEL SODAS'... 
OFF'BRAND CHIPS'!
'TOUGH WES'?/
THIS HAS NOTHING 
TO DO WITH THE 
TOUGH Tines/ 
THIS IS ABOUT A 
LACK Of OlMlTi... t 
A LACK Of PRIDE... | 
A LACK Of... u
MONEY.
LACK OF MONEY? 
ALL THEY HAVE TO 
DO IS REACH UP , 
AND GRAB SOME... * 
UNLESS... 
OHMYGAHO/... 
DONT TELL ME...
I
SO, IF MONEY 
DOESNT GROW 
ON TREES, THEN 
WHERE POES IT 
COME FROM?
THE SWEAT Of 
THE BROW.
GLOBAL HARMING HAS KtLLEO ALL THE HONEY TREES/
WHY DONT 
HE GET PAIO 
TO LOOT AND 
PLUNDER?
...YOU, SIR, ARE A 
STEELY-EYED MISSILE 
MOUSE.'
YEAH.' 
PLUNDERING IS 
HARD WORK.'
NO...THATS 
NOT HOW IT....
IVE GOT 
SWEAT TRY 
ON MY SOME "BAN" 
BROW ROLL-ON. 
ALL THE 
TIME/
YOU SAY MONEY COMES FROM 
THE 'SWEATOF THEBROW'?... 
SURE IT DOES..-IM STICKING 
WITH IT GROWS ON TREES."
RJ, SWEAT OF THE 
BROW" IS JUST AN 
EXPRESSION FOR...
.WORK."
i VERNE,  
PLEASE...1 'f\ li
...WE DONT USE THAT 
KIND Of LANGUAGE 
AROUND HERE... 
THERE ARE YOUNG, 
IMPRESSIONABLE 
MINDS OUT THERE.
ItPillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 9TUESDAY 10
Running Towards Danger. College of Engineering 
hosts seven journalists who will showcase their 
experiences covering the deadly assaults of 9-11, 
such as the book Running Towards Danger by the 
journalists/authors Cathy Trost and Alicia C. 
Shepards. 4 - 6 pm in the Singleton Room of 
Roberts Engineering Hall. For details call x8- 
5776 or email swaney@andrew.cmu.edu.
Networking Workshop. 4:30 pm at the 
McKenna/Peter Room.
International Student Groups. 5 pm in the Pake 
room, University Center.
Vision for a Just Campus. Short-term campaign 
objectives for a globally-aware university for such 
topics as AIDS, local food and farming, fairly 
traded coffee and extractive industry. 8:30 pm in 
front of Carnegie Library or email 
esparar@aol.com.
Poster-making and strategy planning for 9-11 
action in Market Square. 6 pm at the Thomas 
Merton Center, 5125 Penn Ave. 
Aftermath: Stop the Voice of Hate: Multi-media 
arts installation piece commemorating the 
anniversary of 9-11. 6 pm at Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts, corner of Shady and Fifth Ave.
Lagaan (Tax). Saturday and Sunday at 3 pm; 
Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 pm through 
September 12, at the Regent Square Theater,
1035 S. Braddock Ave. This epic is the story of an 
Indian uprisin against British rule, all set to 
music. In Hindi with subtitles.
Adamson Writers Series for Fall 2002 and 
Spring 2003. CMU presents a series of writers 
beginning with two poets (Jim Daniels, Terrance 
Hayes) from CMUs Creative Writing Program. For 
info, call x8-3580 or email ts2h@andrew.cmu.edu
Carnegie Museum of Art Announces Fall 
Programs for Adults and Children. Designing 
Oakland at the Heinz Architectural Center through 
September 22. Eleven international artists offer 
diverse and inventive approaches to self-portraiture in the exhibition Hello My Name Is... locat
ed in the Forum Gallery through September 29. 
Tours of the museums permanent collection run 
until October 4. For more info call (412)622-3131 
or visit www.cmoa.org
Preparing for Job Fairs Workshop.l2:30 pm at
the McConomy Auditorium. Networking Workshop. 
4:30 pm at the McKenna/Peter Rooms, CMU.
Blood Drive: 8:30 am - 2:45 pm, Connan Room.
Strings Attached? Academic Freedom and 
Career Realities. 4:30 pm in Rangos 1. 
International Graduate Women's Session. 5 pm
in the McKenna/Peter Room.
Garaj Mahal and four other Jazz/world-groove 
hands: 8 pm -11pm at the Underground Caf 
Call X8-2105 for more info.
Interfaith Vigil and Candlelit Walk for Peace.
Bring a candle. 7 pm at Phipps Conservatory, 
Schenley Park.
UK SUBS, Toxic Narcotic, Counter Action. 7 pm
Doors: 6:30 pm at Club Laga. All Ages. $10 
advance/$12 at the door. See www.clublaga.com
First meeting of the CMU Womens Center. 6 pm
- 7pm at the Womens Center (Margaret Morrison 
Street, below the sororities).
Melwood Screening Room, 477 Melwood Avenue. 
Film Kitchen, a series held on the second Tuesday 
of every month, is a presentation of short films 
and videos by local artists. This month features 
Trips by Emmett Frisbee, and Logo by Tetsuya 
Takahashi. Reception at 7 pm; screening at 8 pm.
Pittsburgh Glass Center launches fall courses 
starting September 10. Four and eight-week 
classes and one and two day workshops in begin
ner to advanced hot glass-blowing/sculpting, gob
let making, sculptural flameworking, etc. See 
www.pittsburghglasscenter.orgfor details.
Two-sentence horoscopes 
to live by
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): Avoid large crowds. You are not Eva 
Peron and the proletariat is not there to cheer you on.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Your dream of being just like Bruce 
Willis will come to life when a Japanese gasoline vendor approach
es you regarding an advertising campaign.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Aside from the injured camel incident, 
your life problems can not be blamed on bad lighting, even if you 
are an artist living in the tofu-colored-sky capital of the world.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22) : You may be 
from Cleveland, but you just cant order 
maize at an Indian food restaurant. Its 
not that kind of Indian food.
LEO (July 23 
- August 22): 
Knowing both C + + and Java may 
make you the coolest guy on the floor, 
but it doesn't make you bilingual.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): People will laugh at how New 
York you are when you mistake whatever CMUs Gesling Stadium 
field is covered with for actual grass.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Studying aggression in rhesus 
monkeys is interesting and even amusing until the lab lights are 
smashed and they turn on you.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): Iceland welcomes you with 
open arms, as long as you stop claiming to be the father of Bjorks 
love-child.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): While trekking from 
your off-campus apartment is a pain in the neck, your codinginduced muscle atrophy will finally let up, allowing you to stand in 
an fully upright position.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): Be strong. Organic 
chemistry may not be very fun, but for a narcoleptic klutz, its bet
ter than working at the wax factory with Uncle Jimmy, even if they 
will give you union membership.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Its not your personality 
thats a turn off, just the smell of O Fries.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Your 
inability to distinguish between real life 
and extremely vocal dreams where giant 
psychic hairless cats with adhesive paws 
and animatronic piranhas silendy coor
dinate to attack you will continue to be a 
source of amusement to those around 
you.
SMfAe 2MffM-lg nuAccrRMuNR
Pillbox September 9, 200217

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY 11
Moment of Silence: 8:46 am. The CMU community will 
join America in a moment of silence in remembrance of 
the first attack on the World Trade Center last 
September 11. Faculty are encouraged to observe this 
moment of silence in their classrooms. Televised New 
York City ceremonies will be shown in Kirr Commons 
and McConomy Auditorium, University Center, CMU from 
8 am -10:30 am.
School of Music Tribute and Concert presents works 
by Copland, Beethoven, Rohe, and Rodgers and 
Hammerstein. Jim Daniels will read Us, Now, a poem 
he wrote last fall in tribute to the CMU alumni who 
were killed. Great Hall, College of Fine Arts from 12:30 - 
-1:30 pm.
Moment of Remembrance: Plaque unveiling and dedi
cation. A plaque in memory of the seven alumni who 
were victims of the terrorist attacks on September 11 
will be unveiled and dedicated. The plaque will be 
unveiled at the base of the tree planted in memory of 
the victims last October. 4:30 pm on the Cut.
Sierra Club Monthly Meeting. Slide show from National 
Parks. 7:30 pm at the Phipps Garden Center at the 
intersection of Fifth and Shady. Call (412) 244-9907 or 
email pjwray@telerama.com
"The Arts, Community and Activism: A Meditation 
Inspired by the Events of 9-11. A lecture by art his
torian and activist Robert Atkins. Atkins, an instructor 
at the Rhode Island School of Design, is the founder of 
911 The September 11 Project: Cultural Intervention 
in Civic Society. 4:45 pm in McConomy Auditorium
Candlelight Vigil at the Fence. Support the local com
munity while you observe the September 11 events. Get 
a candle in exchange for donated canned goods. All 
donated food will be sent to the Greater Pittsburgh Food 
Bank. 1 am - 4:30 pm and 7:30 - 9:30 pm outside 
Doherty Hall. Candlelight Vigil at 9 pm, at the Fence.
Town Meeting moderated by Robert Atkins will include 
a panel of representatives from CMU and local commu
nities. Panelists will include Clinical Psychologist Tova 
Tarr, former commander of the Pittsburgh Police Gwen 
Elliott, Robert Blose Jr., federal security director at the 
Pittsburgh International Airport, and Andress Appolon, 
a fifth-year scholar. 7:30 pm at McConomy Auditorium.
Free Getu Coalition meeting. 6 pm in the Peter Room.
Islamic Center Open House. 5 pm at the Islamic 
Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow Blvd.
Inquiry into the Roman Catholic Faith. 7:30 pm at the 
Catholic Newman Center, 4450 Bayard Street. Call 
Sister Bernadette for more info: (412)681-3181.
Commemorating September 11: Art, Artists and the 
Community. A display in the tradition of Exit Art in 
New York City, the installation features visual art, 
music and the written word to capture personal reac
tion to the event of September 11. Through September 
15 at the UC, Purnell, Baker Hall and and the Music 
Bulletin Board.
New Invisible Joy. The Flight 93 Benefit starring John 
Vento & friends in concert at the Iron City Ober Bra 
Haus. 8 pm. 3340 Liberty and Sassafras in 
Lawrenceville. Call (412)460-2583 for info.
THURSDAY 12
Factors Associated with Elevated Nighttime Blood 
Pressure and Increased Risk of Cardiovascular 
Disease in Youth Pittsburgh Mind-Body Center Lecture 
by Dawn K. Wilson, PhD, Prevention Research Center, 
Norman J. Arnold School of Public Health, University of 
South Carolina. The lecture will be in the Social Room 
(third fl.), Mellon Institute, 4 - 5 pm. For more informa
tion, please contact Lori Liller Arnold at (412)624-4734.
University Lecture Series.- Is it Okay to Laugh? The
lecture, featuring Pittsburgh Post-Gazette syndicated 
cartoonist Rob Rogers, examines the function of a car
toonist and the role of humor following the events of 9- 
11.4:30 pm in the Adamson Wing, 136A Baker Hall.
TartanTRAK Info Session. Learn how to effectively use 
the TartanTRAK tool when searching for full-time, 
internship, part-time or campus jobs. 4:30 - 6 pm in 
the McKenna/Peter/Wright Room.
Activities Fair, Fall 2002. Meet representatives from 
student groups and organizations on campus and dis
cover what there is to do and how to get involved. 4:30 
- 6:30 pm on the CFA Lawn (fair weather iocation, 
Rangos Hall).
Free showing of Life and Debt a film on effects of 
IMF/World Bank policies on Jamaica) and meeting 
of Pittsburgh Social Forum. 6 pm in the African 
Nationality Room, Cathedral of Learning Room 
330, University of Pittsburgh.
Meeting to plan October 1st protest against . 
Netanyahu visit. 7:30 pm at the Islamic Center of 
Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow Blvd.
Second City, comedy troop, to the Pittsburgh 
Public Theater. The comedy/improv troupe will per
form in the O'Reilly Theater for four shows,
September 12-14 only. Complimentary hors doeuvres are offered to patrons in the OReilly Theater 
lobby at 6 pm tonight. Show begins at 8 pm. 621 
Penn Ave, Downtown. For details, see www.ppt.org
River City Brass Band presents Forward March! 8 
pm at Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland. For info, call 
the box office at (412)322-7222.
FRIDAY 13
"Beyond 9/11/01: Other Voices, Other Stories," a
town hall meeting. 7 pm in the Posvar Hall Room 
2K56, University of Pittsburgh.
Olivia Newton-John singing her songs live with 
members of the Pittsburgh Symphony. 8 pm in 
Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hali. Tickets from 
$35$120. See www.pittsburghsymphony.orgfor info.
Sweet Nothing, Lexus Jumps, Sick of Trying.
Metal/Indie Rock. 7 pm at Mr. Roboto. $5 admission. 
722 Wood Street, Wilkinsburg.
Dr. Kwasi & The Islanders. 8 pm in the Underground, 
located in Morewood Gardens. Free.
voxpopuliAB ROCKS
official voice of doom and despair
vJtEt nS H 3ttAnkB cD AJt 
MJH3HkS AJnS gttotkuP
BABY ELEPHANT!!!
f5m.d HptadtJ 25S.DD 3td 0am0tpq
People are assholes. Set them on fire.
A: I dont know yon.
B: I wouldnt know me either.Happy B-day Weff!Im sure we could come up with 
something to come up with
you work for the 
government, it 
was your turn.
This is YELLOW journalism.
Cohons evil (neck)ties
Vox Populi is a submissionsbased box of junk. If you want 
some words here, email 
tartan @andrew.emu.du
IIPillbox September 9, 2002

---------------------------------------------------

STAGE (Alternative) plus three special guests! 7
pm at Club Laga. $6 advance, $8 at the door. See 
www.clublaga.com for details.
Music & Art 4 Justice Festival. End corporate 
rule!! Come enjoy awesome bands, speakers, 
poets, radical cheerleaders, drums and 
vegan/organic food. 6:30 - 11:30 pm in Bellefield 
Auditorium, University of Pittsburgh.
My Wife is an Actress. 7:30 pm at the Regent 
Square Theater, 1035 S. Braddock Ave. A romantic 
comedy that focuses on the emotional pitfalls of 
the movie business from the point of view of the 
leading ladys jealous spouse. In English and 
French with subtitles.
Spike and Mikes Sick and Twisted Animation Fest 
2002. 7:30 pm at the Melwood Screening Room,
477 Melwood Avenue. Spike and Mikes newest fea
ture-length collection of 18 rude, crude and com
pletely lewd animated films.
This Night Ill Possess Your Corpse. 11 pm at the
Melwood Screening Room, 477 Melwood Avenue. 
Macabre and bizarre, Jose Mojica Marins (aka 
Coffin Joe)'s films are a twisted blend of Russ 
Meyer and Luis Buuel. This is an even more brutal 
campaign of terror as he continues to search for 
the perfect bride.
Artist of the Year: Adrienne Heinrich will fill 
Pittsburgh College for the Arts galleries with new 
sculptural and installation work. Show runs 
through October 27 and opens with a free recep
tion^^ - 8 pm tonight.
SATURDAY 31SUNDAY 01
Fall Craft Holiday, held by the Benedictine Sisters 
of Pittsburgh, features baked goods, Christmas 
gifts, hand-fashioned baskets, watercolor art, 
handmade greeting cards, gifts for all seasons, 
refreshments and a county store. Held at the 
Benedictine Sisters' Monastery, 4530 Perrysville 
Ave., Ross Township. 10 am - 4 pm.
Symposium: Planning Oakland, 1 - 3:30 pm. 
Free with museum admission. Planning Oakland is 
a lecture at the Museum of Art Theater, presented 
by the Heinz Architectural Center of the Carnegie 
Museum of Art. Speakers include: John F. Bauman, 
Professor, Edmund S. Muskie School of Public 
Service, University of Southern Maine; Edward K. 
Muller, Director of Urban Studies, University of 
Pittsburgh; Bob Reppe, Urban Designer,
Department of City Planning, Pittsburgh; Donald K. 
Carter, Managing Principal, Urban Design 
Associates, Pittsburgh.
International Wildlife Film Festival. 1, 3, and 7
pm at the Carnegie Lecture Hall. A complete list of 
the films and descriptions can be found at 
www.wpfi.org. The afternoon showings are: $5 
adults and $2.50 for children 12 and under. The 
evening performance tickets are: $10 adults, $7.50 
students and $5 children 12 and under.\
Sadaharu, Nimbus, Forward Motion, Farewell 
Euclid. Indie/Rock. 7pm at Mr. Roboto $5 admis
sion. 722 Wood Street, Wilkinsburg.
Black Faculty and Staff Association's 4th Annual Fall 
Gospel Concert. Come listen to the Gospel choirs, indi
viduals and mime groups from all over the Pittsburgh 
area. Free. 4 - 7:30 pm in Rangos.
Lost Horizon. 7:30 pm at the Regent Square Theater, 
1035 S. Braddock Ave.. A restored print that tells the 
classic story of five people who survive a plane crash 
and stumble onto a mystical land where health, peace, 
and longevity reign.
ONGOING EVENTS
Regina Gouger Miller Gallery. Gallery Hours: Tuesday - 
Sunday ll:30am-5:00pm Closed Monday. Exhibits runthrough October 11: Featuring artists Shirin Neshat, 
Philip Glass, and Dominique Blain.
Improv the No Parking Players Workshop. Starting 
now twice every week all semester. Free and no experi
ence necessary. Thursdays 8 -10 pm in BH 235A and 
Sundays 3 -5 pm in BH 237B.
Strange Messenger: The Art of Patti Smith (through 
January 5,2003) and Americanism: Shaping Art and 
Culture in the 50s (through Fall 2003). Museum hours: 
closed Monday, open 10 am to 5 pm Tuesday - Sunday, 
and 10 am -10 pm Friday Admission: Adults $8, Senior. 
Citizens $7, Children/Students $4. Tel. 412-237-8300.
Daily Catholic Mass at 12:30 pm (Monday - Friday) in 
the UC Chapel.
classified
Opportunities
For Sale
Riverview lot for sale by owner. Excellent location - one block from major 
hospitals and universities. Five minute drive from downtown. $35,000. 
(412)605-0332
Squirrel Hill $269,000. Just reduced very well maintained and updated 3 
bedroom, 2.5 bath stone ranch with finished lower level, central air, one 
car integral garage, covered side porch and lots of storage. Close to uni
versities and hospitals at 5161 Beeler Streer. Call Cathy Cohen, Coldwell 
Banker. (412)521-2222 ext 223.
For Rent
North Oakland furnished studio and 1 bedroom apartments. Close to 
CMU. On CMU shuttle bus route. Air-conditioning. Secure apartment 
building. Non-smokers preferred. Free parking. $330-$470. Call (412) 
683-5545
Edgewood, Gorgeous 3 bedroom/2.5 bath partially furnished home. Dog 
ok, deck, fp, yard, c/z, dw, w/d, garage, huge master walk-in closet. Good 
light. Excellent location 10 minutes to CMU, Monroeville. Perfect for grad 
students or family. Flexible lease $1865. (412)242-6633
Shadyside spacious 3 bedroom with sunroom, equipped kitchen, $1150 
includes heat. Great for roommates. (412)363-9910.
Get Green. On campus job marketing electric vehicles. Top pay. Flexible 
hours. Free demo product. Call (212)252-5256.
Part-time office staff needed. $7/hr. Visit www.steelcitymealplan.com and 
contact Rachel at (412)916-2457.
Start your own Fraternity! Zeta Beta Tau is looking for men to start a new 
Chapter. If you are interested in academic success, a chance to network 
and an opportunity to make friends in a non-pledging Brotherhood, email: zbt@zbtnational.org or call 800-431-9674.
Fraternities - Sororities - Clubs - Student Groups Earn $l,000-$2,000 
this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. 
Our programs make fundraising easy with no risks. Fundraising dates are 
filling quickly, so get with the program! It works. Contact 
CampusFundraiser at (888)923-3238, or visit 
www.campusfundraiser.com
smartestpills.com Campus Rep. Wanted 952-943-2400
Travel
#1 Spring Break company is now hiring motivated individuals to promote 
America's best Spring Break vacations. Sell trips, earn cash, go free! 1- 
800-234-7007. www.endlesssummertours.com
Sell Spring Break trips All the fun & all the protections American Express 
Worldwide Guaranteed Best Buy 1 Free Trip for Every 10 Paid or CA$H 
Starting with the First Booking You Sell - We Collect Payments World 
Class Vacations 1-800-222-4432
SPRING BREAK '03 with StudentCity.com! Air, hotel, FREE FOOD & 
DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guaranteed! REPS WANTED! Organize 
15 friends, earn 2 FREE TRIPS, VIP treatment, cash and prizes to pro
mote StudentCity.com! Call 1-800-293-1445 or email sales@studentcity.com today!
Wanted! Spring Breakers! Sun Coast Vacations wants to send you on 
Spring Break 2003 to Cancn, Acapulco, Mazatlan, Jamaica or the 
Bahamas FOR FREE! Call us now at 1-800-795-4786 or email us at 
sales@suncoastvacations.com!
#1 Spring Break Free Trips, Drinks/Meals Lowest Prices Parties 
w/MTV/Jerry Springer Featured w/MSNBC/Travel Channel Better than 
ever!! www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-7710
Miscellaneous
SEARCHING FOR E? www.search4e.org
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash, check, or credit card before first 
run date
 On-campus departments and organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday before publication

---------------------------------------------------

September 11, 2001
