VOL 50No. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MAY 7,1957:;
Thimk and Snile; Its Carnival Time
Carnival Schedule
Thursday, May 9, 1957 
4:30 p.m.Midway Opens.
12:00 (midnight)Midway Closes.
Friday, May 10, 1957 
8:00 aim.Baggy Design Judging. 
rl0:00 a.m.Sweepstakes Preliminary.
 12:00 (noon)Midway Opens.
1:30 p.m.-Coronation and'Call DayFlagstag Hill oi 
(rain).
2:30 p.m.Faculty Egg ThrowFine Arts Lawa..
.3:15 p.m.'Sorority RelaysFine Arts Lawn.
8:30 p.m.Ja2z ConcertKai Winding SeptetGym. 
-12:00 (midnight)Midway Closes.
Saturday, May 11, 1957 
10:00 a.m.Sweepstakes Finals.
.:12:00 (noon)Carnival Midway Opens.
. 2:00 p.m.Plank JoustingCarnegie Union.
9:00 p.m.Coronation BallWoody. Herman.
21:00 p.m.intermissionAwards and Prizes 
12:00' (midnight)Midway Closes. -
CFP Reaches Decision 
About Easter Damage
At the, session held last. .Wednesday, th'CFP Court-imposed ad-, 
ditional pnfshment^pn those rsponsib pr -.the ' darhage'dbne' on. 
the Monday night of Easter vacation. ;  .
The most famous of these nicidents has beruthe tree^ planting 
' in Morewood pond, ^ and this has*'
also proven to -be the most ex
pensive of the evening's festivi
ties. Somehow the total cost 
reached $228.32, alb of which is to 
be borne by members of one fra
ternity in the event of the decease 
of the tree. The landscaiper for 
the new fraternity unit has seen 
fit to have a 50 foot  high syca
more tree removed instead of 
'moving his driveway over two 
-feet, and the removal of this ob
struction should allow more sunlight to reach the replanted sap'ling, possibly saving its life. : 
Other Offenders .
Those individuals involved in 
the attempt to. derail a streetcar 
' courageously admitteed their guilt 
and are now receiving, their retri
bution. They have been placed on 
school probation and suspended 
by their fraternity. The cost of 
the mysteriously broken windows 
in the new unit is being shared by 
two fraternities, as the responsi
bility could not. be pinned down 
on either.
' The Court encountered many 
problems in reaching a fair judg-ment, not the least of . which, was 
conflicting evidence from differ
ent witnesses. They also felt that 
' they had to distinguish between 
acts which were the responsibil
ity of individuals and acts which 
could best be considered the re
sponsibility of groups, and the 
problem was further complicated 
by the participation of fraternity 
guests as well as members.
Preventive Measures
In view of the seriousness of 
the acts, committed, the Court
 wished to point .the way toward 
prevention of such actions in the 
future. They discovered that there 
is no clear system among fratern. ities /or establishing responsibil
ity of members during school va
cations. (This has since been rem
edied by'CFP.) They recognized 
the heavy load of responsibility 
placed upon officers of individual 
froternities by eases of this kind, 
[continued on page 7i
S. C. Elections 
Are Slated 
For Tomorrow
Tomorrow,* Wednesday, May 8, 
Student: Congress will hold one 
of its most important meetings of 
the. year at 4:30 in 100 Porter 
Hall. It will .be a joint meeting 
of new and old representatives 
of Congress.
The main business will bethe 
election of chairman and vicechairman of Student Congress 
Nominations thus far are chair
man, Jo Lacey and Lou Marquet.; 
and vice chairman, Bob Clements, 
Lee Ligo, and Ed Choby.
New Student ' Congress com
muter representatives are: Gloria 
Cofsky, Robert D. Murray, Gwin 
Richards, and Terrie Rudy.
Recently elected fraternal rep
resentatives are: Alpha Tau' 
Omega, Robert Shuck; Beta Sig
ma Rho,. Allen Bornstein; Beta 
Theta Pi, Jack Peng; Delta. Tau 
Delta,-William Montgomery; Kap
pa Sigma, John Bfugos; Pi Kappa 
Alpha, Lou Marquet; Sigma Al
pha Epsilon, William Shannon; 
Sigma Nu, Steve Rinaldi; Tlieta 
Xi, Howard Schafci;.
New sorority representatives 
are: Chi Omega, Marjorie War
ner, Delta Delta Delta, Marilyn 
Lawrence; Kappa Alpha Theta, 
Gail Garvin; Kappa Kappa Gam
ma, Caroloii Fidder; Sigma Kap
pa, Beverly Ciesielski; Alpha Ep
silon Phi, Lu Fields, Delta Gam-? 
ma, Val Armitage.
Still to report their new rep
resentatives are: Delta Upsilon, 
Phi Kappa, and Tau Delta Phi. 
These organizations should sub
mit the names ,of these repre
sentatives to the Dean of Stu
dents office, and make sure that 
these representatives are present 
nt the second meeting of the new 
Congress, tomorrow at 4:30.
More Booths5 Harder Games, Roller Coaster * 
And A Chair oplane Promise A Gala Midway
Draft
the academic year, 1957-1958, 
whether here at CIT oxsome 
other institution and you. are 
under the jurisdiction of Se
lective ' Service Regulations, 
you should report just us soon 
as possible to Room 150 A.H. 
to complete the studentsec
tion of SS Form 109.- If you 
do not discharge this obliga
tion as a registrant, you will 
be classified 1-A and subject 
to .call-, to active duty, .with
- the' armed forces.
57 Leadership 
Conference Date 
Set For May 17 
..In order to promote a-broader 
understariding of Student Coni-, 
gress roles land to -.-fill the need-next '-s 
Corigr&s, iKe^aidirShip .Commit
tee/of Student - Congress has or-, 
ganized a Leadership Conference,- 
scheduled for May 17 and 18.
The Conference will consist of 
two meetings, the first of which 
Will be dinner Friday evening, 
May 17; at 5:30 in the 31ue Room 
of Morewood Gardens. The topic 
to be discussed will be the organi
zation of Student Government  
its place, on campus and its origin
al goals. This meeting will de
finitely end at 7:30.
The second session is planned 
for Saturday morning, May 16 
from 9:30. to 11:30 at the Union. 
Discussion groups of. new and old 
mmbers and chairmen willbe 
organized to consider th various 
major areas of Student  Congress 
work  Carnival, Home-coming, 
Leadership, and lections.
The Leadership Conference is 
primarily intended for old. and 
new Student Congress members, 
chairmen, and officers, and acti
vity heads, but any other inter-esled students and faculty are in
vited. The dinner Friday evening 
[continued on page 121
Spring Carnival wouldnt be carnival-like if it wexenttfor the gaily decorated midway.' This year'the midway 
promises to be . letter than ever according to the plans of 
the sororities, fraternities, and the midway planning com.riiittee. i
The midway committee has announced thaf there will
---------------------------------:-------------------?be four exciting rides this year,
the main attraction beingDance To Music 
Of Woody Herman 
In Modern Setting
Friday evening - will see 'the 
gym overflowing with girls in 
bermud^ shorts and fellows . in 
khakis listening and dancing to 
the music of Kai Winding and his 
Septet. The occasion will be the 
.traditiohal jazz conceit to which 
the price oi admission is included 
in the price paid for the ticket 
to. the Carnival Dance.
...Woody.Herman will be featured 
Saturday Evening at.'the formalAlthough he is, considered one of 
.the.'foremost . jazz . bands,, he . also 
plys^^eiclirit 'dffc^^HsiciV: '
.; At, eleven o'clock announce
ments of awards will be made, by 
Dick Aiken, Spring Carnival 
Chairman, and the trophies will 
be  presented by the Carnival 
Queen. Included in these pre
sentations will be the trophies for 
buggy race, sorority relays, buggy 
design, and the much coveted 
fraternity booth cups.
This year the decorations will 
take a modern twist. Instead of 
the usual balloon and crape -pa
per suspensions, the ceiling will 
be covered with balloons twelve 
feet'in-diameter. Both flats, which 
will ,be set up against the wall, 
will; be of Mondrian design.
Thfese were done by Bob Clem
ents, Chairman' of the Decora
tions Committee, Bob. Jones his 
assistant, Cwens, and Scimitars. 
Saturday the new Delta Scull 
members and the new represent
atives to Student Congress will 
help to put tip the decorations.
Lady Godiva
The S n S publicity stunt proved to be the hit of last Tuesdays 
l.i'oscnlalions. Pictured above are Xi"* Ede as Lady Godiva,' John 
Bos, and liorse.
coaster. The othor.'three rides are j  
a ferris wheel, a merry-go-row^ 
and a new. ri.de, the chairo^plaiie1' ; 
The midway will open officially at . 
7:30 p.m. this Thursdayi Judgmft 
by the record number of twentysix booths will begin 'at 9:3b,'-.- 
Thursday evening. Elaborate - plans. - 
have been*made for the booths'in-- a 
anticipation of this judging. ' . ..-.
AEPhi is using their carriivaL:-. 
campaign theme fortheirboqth,: - 
"Red, Hot and Cool. They de-w 
scribed the: structure as !sbrt iofv;: 
tent like.- The prizes are -to' beinteresting stuffed.animals. 
The ChiOs are planning a  
game that will be'enjoyed, by .ev,. 
eryone, miniature golf. Two. char? -. 
acters depicting their queen ...can
didates will decorate ;\theV'ganieV : 
The Chi Os Kave .also decided' on / 
stufled^aoijmais [ior, their--riiees;jthe DG's booth, The game, which 
will consist of a huge record play
er with a spinning turntable, will 
correspond .to their queen 'cam: 
paign, "Hi Fr. Three prizes are to 
be awarded depending .upon the 
skill of theperson playing ,the 
game. First prize will be a record 
album of Soundproof, Second, 
prize, stuffed dolls named Hi-Fi 
Harry 'and pinwheels  for .-the 
booby prize.'The proceeds of this 
booth will go to the fund for the blind.
The Tri Delts Delta Double 
[continued on ..page 12]
550 Cast Votes 
In Queen Election
On Friday, May. .3, after, a 
week of colorful campaigning by 
the sororities, the male student 
body voted for. spring carnival 
queen. Theij choices were based 
on the presentation of the-sorority 
skits on Fine Arts lawn, at the fra
ternity houses and the dorms; the 
candidate's appearances at dinner 
in the fraternity houses and th 
publicity pictures in Skibo.
Over. 550 men voted, the largest 
number to vote in any election on 
Techs campvis this year.
Of the twelve candidate's, Nan
cy Gardner and Kelly Kejlerman 
of Chi O, A E Phis Frani Jungk, 
Thetas Caroletta Yalencrt, and 
Moo Lautn of TrirDelt were 
chosen to comprise the court. The 
queen will be announced when 
she is ' crowned on Call Day on 
Friday, and she will officially 
open the Carnival weekend.
Congress Elections
Election of* chairman and 
/vice-chairman of Student 
Congress will be lfeld Wed
nesday, May 8, 4:30 p.m., P.H. 
100. It iyill be a joint meeting 
of old and new representa
tives oif congress.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa 2CARNEGIE /TARTAN1Tuesday, May > 1W
Sleek, Shiny Buggies 
Set For Sweepstakes
New designs and the ever-present possibility' of breaking the 
year-old course record are expected lo make the Spring Carnival 
buggy races especially exciting this year.. One dorm buggy and 19 
fraternity *buggies are registered^ to race, with many new designs 
predicted. ?
-Dae-to the many rainy nights in ! 
past weeks, however, practices
have hot been too successful, and; 
it is questionable whether-or hot 
last'years speed record of 2:25.0, 
set ' by ATO,  will be broken. If 
not, it will be, the first year since 
1950 that the course time has not 
been lowered by at least
Thela Xi; Pi Kappa Alpha, Phi 
Kappa, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 
Kappa Sigma^ Beta Sigma Rho, 
and. Alpha TauOmega are each 
entering two buggies, while Sig
ma Nu, Delta "Tau Delta, Tau 
Delta Phi, Delta Upsilon, and Bela 
Theta Pi are each._ entering one. 
A' new entry which is cremating 
much interest is that of the Menrs 
Dorm Council.
Design Competition
Design competition will be held 
at 8:00 Friday morning, behind 
Porter Hall. Judges are Mr. 'Ash
worth of the P & D industrial de
sign department, Dr. Hughes of 
the mechanical engineering de
partment, and Mr. Donath, a patent attorney and registered 
mechanical engineer.
First elimination heats will also 
be on Friday and are tobegin at 
10:00ra.m. The three finalists will 
race in the main event Saturday 
morning at '10:00. Judging the 
races will be 15 members of the 
ROTC and engineering faculties, 
with Dr. Strick as head judge.
Course Description
Each team consists of six men: 
five pushers and one driver, who 
is usually the,smallest man in th 
fraternity. The course will be the 
same as in previous years, with 
the lining up at the bottom ol 
.Tech Street. At the starting gun, 
-.the first With' his. buggy as far as the SIA building 
where it is taken over by the sec
ond usher, who pushes it up onto 
Schenley Drive.
From there the buggy coasts 
-through the park with only the 
driver. At Frew "Street, team 
- members again take it, pushing 
up past Porter Hall and AH and 
to the finish line beside, the. SIA 
building. The tropries, which are 
. reported to be extremely large 
this year, will be awarded at the 
. dance in the gym Saturday night.
Week-long Pitt 
Festival 
After Carnival
. Two days after the Tech Carni
val is over students will have the 
opportunity to continue the gala 
spirit which usually runs high at 
such events.. Pitt is holding its 
Spring Festival from May 14-18.
The theme this year is "Moder
nize the Met a take-off on the 
Metropolitan pera. The Carnival 
is hfld on the Forbes Street lawn 
of the Cathedral and'will. take 
place Tuesday, Wednesday and 
.^Thursday, evenings from 7-11 p.m. 
.apd n Friday 7-12 p!m. On Wed
nesday afternoon at 2:30 the 
Msns Sweepstakes and Womens 
Drtrbywill be held in Schenley 
Pari:.
The w$ek will be capped by 
the Metropolitan Ball, the festival 
dancewhich is being held in the 
Commons. Roomand Bigelow 
Court of the Cathedral of Learn
ing, Scturday evening from 8-12. 
The music will be provided by 
I h e nationally famous Skitch 
Henderson and his orchestra.
' Tickcts for this affair are $4.00 in 
advance and.^$4.25 at the door. 
A* this dance trophies will be 
av/ardsd to the winners of the 
ieslival events and Miss Metro
politan, queen-of the Festival 
Week will be.crowned.
Right
Sororities Present 
Skits Before FA
Tech students crowded "Fine 
Arts lawn last Tuesday at 11:30 
to' -witness the beginning of the 
sorority campaigns. Dick Oden 
was the humorous master of 
ceremonies Who introduced the 
various skits.
Seven groups of brightly clad 
girls entertained the audience* for 
an hour. Kappa Kappa Gamma 
started the program with Bal
ance the . Budget, featuring 
Becky Hughes and .Ann Mehler.
Next on the scene came Alpha 
Epsilon Phi-'w^th Red. Hot arid 
Cool"  and Frani Jungk as th.eir 
candidate. Susie Maucher " and 
Anna Schuck'led the Delta GamPolio Shots
' For the many persons who 
missed their second injection 
of Salk vaccine, the hours 
from 11:30 to 1:30 this Fri
day have -been reserved for 
that purpose. Shota will be 
given in the doctors office.
mas in Hi Fi, after which Delta 
Della Delta gave their Baseball 
skit featuring the Delta Double 
Play Aiin Krutilla ana Moo 
Lauten.
Chi Omega and their candi
dates, Nancy Gardner and Kelly 
Kellerman, gave their version of 
College Days. Following them 
i the Kappa Alpha Theta's 
Whirling on a Hurricane theme, 
introducing Caroletta Valencourt 
an Audrey Smith. Sigma Kappa 
completed the program by pre
senting Sue Ramsey in My Fair 
Lady.
The presentations were well 
received, but the hit of the show 
Tim Ede dressed, as Lady 
Godiva,. complete with 'long red 
tresses. To Ihe accompaniment -of 
he bagpipes, Tim paraded around 
man^y white horse, led by 
John Bos.
Carnival Annuals Are Egg Toss, 
Plank Jousting, Sorority Relays
A newly emphasized event in this years Carnival is to be the 
sorority relay races. Coupled with the de-emphasizing of the queen 
campaign skits, greater attention is being given to these races than 
in previous years,' and they are expected to be unusually enter
taining.
Two of the sixevents have been 
announcedone, a * wagon race 
with one girl riding and another 
propelling it in a manner to be 
discovered at the time of the race, 
and the other, a tug of war be
tween two teams with playoffs to 
determine the winner.
Each of the seven sorority re
lay teams will consist of from 12 
to 15 girls. Equipment for the 
races is to be supplied by the so
rorities, who are requested to 
bring the following:
 . 1 heavy cardboard box l'x  
l'x8" deep.
1 childs, four wheel wagon 
with a handle,, large 
enough for an adult to sit
4 solid oranges.
1 mans felt hat.
1 pair of mans large cloth 
gardening gloves. 
12 cardboard backs from tablts, size 8J/fe. by 11 inches. >
1 burlap sack.
25 feet of heavy clothes line
Further information can be 6b-' 
tained from Barbara Mortson, 
Frart Bebic, or Hettie Osbrne. 
Judging th relays will be two 
field judges, who will see that the 
somewhat novel directions are 
followed, and three or fouT judges 
at the finish line. Sorority. relays 
start at 3:15 on Friday and will be 
held in froht of the Fine Arts 
building. , s
Plank Jousting
Twenty-two fraternity and in
dependent teams have signed up 
for the privilege of being soaked 
in mud in the annur'. plank joust
ing'. competition. Four-inch wide 
planks a/e' set on posts sunk at 
either end of a mud hole, which 
has previously been hosed ..te a 
[continued on page 30]
What I probably like , most'bout 
this job, says Tom, "is that youre 
never tied down to one desk and the 
same routine. There's always'a new 
problem ... a new approach needed 
... new people to meet and work with/
But first, ' what does a, Systems 
Analyst do? "Briefly, we study a cus
tomers present systempayroll, in
ventory control, billing or whatever 
and convert it to a mechanized sys
tem using either conventional IBM 
business machines or IBM's high
speed electronic computers."
Tom works out of the IBM Balti
more Office with some of Americas
Studying euifom.trs prtaenl lyilem
biggest companies as his customers. 
Graduated from Johns Hopkins in 
August, 55, with a B.S.I.E., he came 
'immediately to IBM. Duringhis train
ing period, Tom studied IBM's 
Punched Card and Electronic Data. 
Processing Machines. He learned their 
uses, their applications, and was in
structed in the theories and methods 
of data processing.
Diversified Assignments 
A leading aircraftcompany was Toms 
first major assignment. My job 
there/ he explains, was to analyze 
the application of IBMs latest elec
tronic computerthe 705to regu
late the flow of materials and machines 
used to fill Government contracts. 
Then came a short, but highly sat-, 
isfying assignment. At the Bellwood 
Quartermaster Corps; Tom bet up a 
SOAP system (System for Opti
mum Automatic Programming) deWhats it like to be 
A SYSTEMS ANALYST AT IBM?
Two year* ago, college senior Thomas Wheeler asked himself this qOestion. Today, a Systems Analyst in IBMs Data Processing Division, Tom 
reviews his experience and gives some pointers that may be helpful lo 
you in taking the first, most important step in your business career.
fined by Tom as converting the flow 
of instructions and information into 
the. most efficientoperation for an 
IBM magnetic! drum computer. Bellwood, Tom points out, is the In
ventory Control Center for all
Why Tom chose IBM
How does a senior like Tom, who waa 
interviewed by at least twenty com
panies while in college, select hie 
future employer? "In my case, Tom 
says, "the choice was easy. IBM 
offered the besi opportunities. I knew 
IBM sales were about doubling.every 
five yearsand when I considered 
the tremendous growth potential, of 
the electronic computer fieldI had 
no troublemaking up my mind.
Besides, I was impressed by the 
caliber of IBM personnel. They had 
a broader outlook and an approach to
Quartermaster centers in the country. 
The new system will achieve balanced 
supply and demand of material 
throughout the entire U. S.will save 
money for the Government:and re
lieve many men from the drudgery 
of details/
For the past six months, Tom has 
been working with the Statistical 
. Services Division of Headquarters 
Air Research & Development ComAl Ow control panai of IBM 650
business which I can best describe
Eipjolnlng IBM' 70S elactronlc compultr
mand. "We are designing and imple
menting a system to link eleven 
reporting centers to Headquarters by 
wire transmission, Tom reports. 
Data transmitted to Headquarters 
by this system will be coordinated 
and then processed l?y an IBM 650 
electronic computer.
My future? It looks goodvery 
goo<J. Ive already received-two gen
erous raises in less than two years, 
and at the rate IBM and the elec
tronic computer field are expanding, 
my future is both assured  and 
rewarding!
IBM hopes this message will help to give 
you some idea of what its like to be a 
Systems Analyst in the Data Processing 
Division. There are equal opportunities 
for E.E.s, I.E.s, M.E.g, physicists, math
ematicians, Liberal Arts majors, and 
Business Administration graduates in 
IBMs many divisionsResearch, Product Development, Manufacturing En
gineering, Sales and Sales Assistance. 
Why not drop in and discuss IBM'with 
your Placement Director? He can supply 
our brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Mean
while, our Manager of College Relations, 
P. H. Bradley, will be happy to Answer 
your questions. Just write him at IBM, 
Room 11905, 590 Madison Ave , New York 22, N. Y.inn
INTHNATIONAI 
BUSINESS MACHINES 
COirOIATION
AT* PROCESSINO' ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERSEQUIPMENTIILITAnV PRODUCTS

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 7. 1957CARNEGIE TARTANPate 
Foiirth Annual Theme Issue 
Of Technical Is At Bookstore
This months Technical is the fourth annual number that has 
been devoted to a unifying theme. Started in the spring of 1954 with 
an issue, appropriately enough for a Pittsburgh publication, on metals, 
the theme number has caught the imagination of each succeeding 
staff. ' +-----------------------------------------------------
In 1955, the Infinite Cathe
dral, was a look at engineering 
careers and the professional life.
' Last yearan economic note was 
struck when reporting teams 
were sent to various "one com
pany towns to comprehensively 
study the effects of company pol
icies and practices on the town 
and their inhabitants. 
This year, this month is the 
fourth, and perhaps winters stub
born hanging-on has fogged the 
imagination or perhaps we grow, 
pedantic with old age, but some
how this theme number is not
Loans '
All those who will need 
long-term loans for next year 
should place an application in 
Room 154 A.H. before the 
end of the present semester.
easily described by one or two 
words.
We billed it last month as the 
avant gard of the technical world, 
but that isnt quite right because 
it implies personalitiesthe Arrowsmiths and' Gottliebs, the 
Honeys and Roarks. What is of 
more concern, at this time and 
this place, is the work which 
such men as these (or rather 
their real world counterparts) 
have produced. It is work which 
is a crystal ball of the future of 
engineering and science.
Economic Future
But for now they are exciting 
and relatively unknown areas. 
Both writers and artists have 
tried to convey a little of the ex
citement while exploring their 
topics to give you a better ideas 
of actual research results which 
are of far-reaching importance.
Of great concern to many tech
nologists is the increase in world 
energy requirements and the de
crease in the rate of discovering 
new reserves of standard energy 
sources. Conservation of  fuels 
and increased efficiency of their 
use are commendable engineering 
objectives, blit they are. .limited 
by a highly-industrialized society 
and the second law of thermo
dynamics; .they ,are not. the an-: 
swer to.the long-range problem.
; Where Cometh Energy-?-
In this day of giant stfrel'fur-' 
naces, gleaming rotating-.machinery and 300 horse .powered ^auto
mobiles, one. can hardly imagine 
it. all'stopped by lack of fuels. 
But those who have studied the 
problem show that it is a real 
threat which csin only be met'by 
finding new  sources of energy,, 
and it seems unlikely that the 
gedphysicts will - find them.
'. Strangely . enough, it is back to 
the'^Wuii ^(fr.q^;-Z!s^ience perhaps 
the' ^arth evolved,)>that we turn. 
Two articles in this'issue are con
cerned with new. sources of en
ergy. The first is Solar Energy 
by John Chi (Chem, E, 58). In 
his-first article for the Technic
al,- Mr. Chi shows how we may 
utilize the direct impingement of 
the suns rays upon the earths 
surface to produce useful heat
Fission Bombs
There is another aspect of. the 
suns energy which,- if somewhat 
less explored than the direct use 
Of the suns rays, is nonetheless a 
field rich with possibility. Edwin 
Woll (Phys. *57), who last wrote 
for the Technical  on sub
atomic particles, reveals the ma
jor problems concerned with har
assing the nuclear inactions 
which have been hypothesized re
sponsible for the suns energy. 
The thermonuclear bomb provid
ed the practical example of the 
fusion reaction, but as the As-, 
sion bomb before it, there may 
be benefit to man far outweigh
ing its devastating birth.
. .Getting back to terra firma, one 
realizes that there are more 
prosaic subjects than reactions on 
the sun. In The Dirt About 
Dirt, Stuart Ansor (C.E. 57) 
shows that the civil engineer has 
to know his chemistryanyway 
if he wants to keep the earth un
der his feet and machines firm. 
The soil stabilizers are a recent 
development which may make 
the work of the builder easier, 
safer, more economical and more 
extensive.
Certainly dirt, will never be the 
building material that steel is. In 
the cities one daily sees new 
structures pointing skyward or 
roads leading out tg the markets 
of' the world, all depending to 
some extent on  steel products. 
New  methods of productiftn as 
well as new sources of iron ores 
are required if we are to continue 
.our current-dependance on the 
metal. Cornelius Durdaller (Met. 
57) shows how production in the 
mills might -be impr>ved: with an 
ideawhich goes/back .to Bessem. 'Human' Engineering
- Therevare aspects of the future 
of -technology' which will be of 
more interest to the. individual 
than the larger considerations of 
energy 'and construction. They 
are the individualpleasures' of a 
mans, life. Four of the articles in 
this issue take up subjects which 
bear upon these pleasures.
David Stea (Mech. E. '57) in
vestigates a new kind of engineering which .concerns itself
works. Human engineering form
ally acknowledges that there is 
a limit to mans ability to do 
things in certain alien environ
ments and that science may ex
tend this limit in order to free 
man for his important decision
making ability. Mr, Stea cites the 
problems which the new realm 
of investigation must consider.
Mans food has already come to 
tiiro. in, a vast array of packaglife; 
techniques  cannedifrozeri; de
hydrated, sometimes even fresh.  
Now scientists, looking for ways , 
to utilize the by-products of. our' 
thriving atomic energy industry, 
have decided to irradiate -food 
with radioactive substances. Jack-.
[continued on page 101
Drama Dept. 
Stages Last Play 
Drama At Inish
For their final .performance of. 
the season Carnegie Techs drama 
department will present Drama. 
At Inish, a comedy originally  
written and directed by Lennox 
Robinson, for the Irish . Abbey. 
Players.
The play focuses oh what hap
pens when an acting troupe, 
comes to Inish, a summer resort 
on the coast of Ireland. The-'tpwn_. 
is greatly infiuenced by their per
formance, and the .events which 
follow are-both interesting an<l 
amusing.
The play will run May 16 to the 
25. It is under the direction of. 
Henry F. Boettcher, head of the 
department of drama, and his as
sistant is Miss Nancy Lipe. .Sets 
are designed by Mr. Paul Trautvetter.
Cast
The scene takes placeat the 
Seaview Hotel at Inish, .and the 
characters are Lizzie ' Twohigportrayed by the double cast-, of 
Carole Cox and Sherry Moulton; 
Hellena by Marion Jahn; Chris
tine Lambert by Elizabeth Clem-., 
entson; Eddie Twohig by T. Brook . 
Howard; John Twohig by Lane F.. 
Merrill; Constance Constantia by 
Irene Baird; Hector De La Mare 
by James Goldswig; Annie Two
hig; by Wendy Mackenzie Rob
ertson; Peter Hurley by Clyde 
Sharp; Michael by Richard 
Brown and Jack Randall; John 
Hegarty by Philip Jacobus; Wil
liam Slattery by Harry Williams; 
and Tom Mooney  by Richard' 
Brown and Jack Randall.
The cast is prepared to give, 
a top performance.as..they finish the year with one of .the itiost 
hilarious and enjoyable comediesyou have seen. The reaction of 
the town to the troupes fearfully 
successful drama fills the pre
sentation with a rich play o/ 
cause'and effect, offering an. ex
citing evening to all. Tickets may, 
be obtained at the main office in  
Fine Arts.
THE THUNDERING MARCH 
OF PROGRESS
Today, as everyone knows, is the forty-sixth anniversary of the founding of Gransmire College for Women which, as everyone knows, was the first Progressive Education college in the United States.
Well do I recollect the tizzy in the academic world when Gransmire first opened its portals! What a buzz there was, what a brouhaha in faculty common rooms, what a rattling of teacups, when Dr. Agnes Thudd Sigafoos, first president of Gransmire, lifted her shaggy head and announced defiantly, This here is no stuffy, oldfashioned college. This here, by gum, is'Progressive 
Education. We will teachthe student, not the course. There will be no marks, no exams, no requirements. We will break the iron mold of orthodoxy, hey."
Well sir, forward-looking maidens all over the country cast off their fetters and came rushing to New Hampshire to enroll at Gransmire. Here they found freedom. They broadened their vistas. They lengthened their horizons. They unstopped their bottled personalities.. They foamed 
the campus in togas, leading ocelots <
5. Why. do I say of course because it is a matter of course that anyone in search of freedom should naturally turn to Philip Morris, for Philip Morris is a natural smoke, with no filter to get in the way of its true tobacco taste.)
But all was not Philip Morris and ocelots. There was work and study too  not in the ordinary sense, for there were no formal classes. Instead there was a broad approach to enlarging each girl's potentials.
Take, for example, the course called B.M.S. (Basic Motor Skills). B.M.S..was divided into L.D. (Lying Down), S.U. (Standing Up) and W. (Walking). Once the student had mastered L.D. and S.U., she was taught to W.-but not just to W. any old way! No, sir! She was taught to W. with poise, dignity, bearing! To inculcate a sense of balance in the girl, she began her exercises by walking with a suitcase in each hand. (One girl, Mary Ellen Dorgenicht, got so good at it that today she is bell captain at the Dinkler-Plaza Hotel in Atlanta, Georgia.)
When the girls had walking under their belts, they were allowed to dance. Again no formality was !mposed. They were simply told to fling themselves about in any way their impulses dictated, and believe you me, it was Quite an impressive sight to see them go bounding into the woods with their togas flying. (Several later joined 
the U. S. Forestry Service.)
There was also  lot of finger painting and gourd rattling and sculpture with coat hangers and all like that, and soon the fresh wind of Progressivism came whistling out of Gransmire to blow the ancient dust of pedantry off curricula everywhere, and today, thanks to th pioneers at Gransmire, we are all free, every man-jack of us.
If you are ever in New Hampshire, be sure to visit 
the Gransmire campus. It is now a tannery.
Mate Shutman, 1057
And be sure to tight a Philip Morris when you visit Gransmire, 
or anywhere etee for that matterf because Philip Morris is 
'always a naturally perfect companion and brings you this 
column each week and is ignitable at either end.
Page one item: 
new Arrow 
permanent stay collar
If you*ve ever lost a collar 
Stay (and who hasnt?) this 
smart Arrow shirt with 
permanent-stay collar is for you.
These stays are built right inf 
permanently and invisibly.
They cant get lostever!
Permanent stays are introduced 
.this season in a trim short-pointed 
collar model with French cuffs.
Yours in San forized-labelled 
broadcloth, just $5.00. Pure silk tie, $2.50
ARROWfirst in fashion
SHIRTS . TIES
Campus Headquarters For Arrow Products * Ivy League FashionsLEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD ST.OAKLAND

---------------------------------------------------

FM* 4CARNEGIE TAKTAN^Taesday, May. 7, 1957
WRCT Officers
WRCT, recently elected its 
ecutive council for the1957-58 
school year. The.new officers are: 
station manager, John Russell; 
assistant station manager, Blake 
Berning; busines manager, Don 
Kest; chief announcer, Larry Wil
liams; chief engineer. Jack Isenberg. .
The following were elected by 
the previous fourteen members of 
the', council, plus the five newly 
electe'd officers: music director, 
Lloyd Strieker; publicity direc
tor, Bruce Gowens; special events 
director, George Hutchinson; ad
vertising manager, ' Bill Carr; 
continuity director,. Jean Smith; 
chief audio engineer. Bob Best; 
chief radio engineer, Fred Geil.
Spring Call Day 
Will Include Both 
Crowning, Calls
Friday will bring the official 
opening of 1957 Spring Carnival 
at the Coronation and Call Day 
'Program planned for Flagstaff 
Hill. In case of rain, the program 
-will be held in the gym. Musical 
selections will be given through
out the program by the Kiltie 
Band and Cameron Choir. The 
master of ceremonies will be John 
Bos.
After the general welcome and 
'introduction, the calls to the var
ious honoraries will  be. made. 
Alpha Phi Omega, Pi Delta Epsi
lon, Claymore Clan, Tau Beta Pi, 
Pi Mu Epsilon, Tau Sigma Delta, 
and Sgima Xi will call their new 
members first.
Next, the class honoraries, 
Cwens,' the Scimitar Society, Phi 
Tau Gamma, Delta Skll, Mortar Kappa
will make their calls.
The special individual awards 
will be made next; they include 
the Student Congress Awards (ac
tivities keys), the Edward E. Mc
Donald Award, Phi Mu . Alpha 
Sinfonta Outstanding Senior 
Awards, Kent D. Shaffer Outstanding Service Award-, the Tar
tan Awards in intramural and 
varsity athletics, the Alfred M. 
Cerrito Award, and the Panhellenic Scholarship Cup.
After the awards will come the 
climax of, the ceremonythe pre
sentation of the court and the 
crowning of the 1957 Carnival 
Queen. Dr. Warner and last 
years queen, Barbara Kerr, will 
do the honors. After this exciting 
moment, the queen will officially 
open Techs biggest weekend of 
the yearSpring Carnival.
| Playhouse
Agatha Christies famous court
room melodrama, Witness for the 
Prosecution, which ran for ove: 
two years in London and 644 per' 
formances on Broadway opened 
a four-week run at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Saturday, May 4.
 The play has to do with a shift
less but appealing young man ac
cused of murdering an elderly 
woman who had willed him her 
entire fortune. The Counsel for 
the Defense hopes to win an ac
quittal for his client through his 
wifes testimony until the de
voted wife unexpectantly changes 
her mind about her husbands in
nocence.
Leading roles will be played by 
John Eames, -Jayne Carvel, Wil
liam Skelton, Lincoln Maael, 
Arthur Wilmurt, Pearl Hipps 
Bradford and James Taylor. Phyl
lis Shoemaker, Darrell Zwerling, 
Oscar Wicken, William Rogers, 
John E. Nagy, Nan Vickers, Hal 
Sherwood, Mary Poynt, Edward 
Smith, Bill Galarno, Esther Pierce, 
Peggy Quallich, Leon Ward, Jay 
Doyle, Pearce Poyntz and Tom 
Lester complete the cast.
The Bald Save 
On Haircuts
i By Ron Abrams
I have been watching television 
for about eight years, but it 
wasnt until a couple of months 
ago that I made.a shocking dis
covery. Besides the fact that my 
eyeballs are square from such 
close scrutiny of the picture tube, 
I have found that in many west
erns and whodunnits the villians 
are usually portrayed as being 
disgustingly slick in appearance 
or else partially bald! Why is a 
bald man considered by the movie 
and TV casting directors to be so 
sinister?
Yul Brynner is making movie 
history because of the abscence of 
follical foliage, but his type is 
not what I refer to. The actor 
who is the object of audience 
hatred is usually only a little 
threadbare, and this deficiency is 
kept carefully hidden by a hat 
or camera angles until the dra
matic moment when the hero aims 
a well-timed right to the jaw
The play was staged by Robert 
Bardwell and will feature set
tings by Tom Vawter. Tickets for 
Witness for the Prosecution and 
he new musical revue, Off the 
Top, opening a four-week run 
May 11 may be reserved by 
calling the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
box-office at MAyflower 1-4445. '
which is precisely . calculated to 
expose a shiny scalp to the cam
era lens.
* This makes the villian appear 
even more threatening to society 
and his glowering, countenancc 
more menacing. Why is this? 
Most of us have-at least one rela
tive, friend, or acquaintance with 
an extremely high forehead 
whom we consider not the least 
apt to stealfrom us or murder us.
Bald Heroes
The other facet of this subject 
is the fact that one seldoms sees 
bald men portraying heroism. 
This might lead a. narrow-mind
ed thinker to believe that only 
good people have hair or that 
wavy locks mean a benevolent 
character.
I have on uneasy feeling that if 
we ever get human brotherhood 
straightened out, it will be re
placed by a considerable bad feel
ing arising between the "withs 
and the withouts. I can picture 
the Supreme Court in 2057 pass
ing an anti-segregation law as 
constitutional that permits, bar
bershops the right to cater to 
both groups.
Perhaps the situation isnt as 
bad as that, but that hero-villian 
stuff seems like a personal affront 
to those who must wear a hat to 
keep the sun out of other peo
ples eyes.
Reflections
My familys doctor tells about' 
the time that he had to re-introduce himself to an acquaintance. 
The man thought a moment, then
remarked, I don t, remember the 
iace, but the reflection's rf&miliar' 
He also tells of an old tfriend 
who had not seen him long
time who said. "Well. Ed-- I cee 
youre gaining weight arouhd the 
hair! Apparently, the only wa 
one can escape such wit is to be 
elected president, and this prob
ability is small.
Sense of Humor 
Actually, a man who has the 
ability to laugh at a really funny 
comment deserves much-admira
tion. Its likely that this man has 
a real sense of humor. The rea
son I say this is that nearly all 
men are sensitive to-that kind of 
jest, either consciously or un
consciously, and it takes a big 
man to laugh at himself-^or so 
Im told. .
Im expecting some guests, soon, 
so Ill have to straighten1 my tie 
and take care of my hair. Now 
where did I put that washcloth?
WANTED:
Family Home
University family of five mov
ing to Pittsburgh needs mod
est 3*4 bedroom house north 
or east. Buyor rent. M. E. 
Wrolstad, 148 Springville, Buf
falo, N. Y. . , .
"Youre darned right Fm sold on that 
Burroughs engineering deal!
Techite Polansky, 
All-American Shot
The National Rifle Association 
this week named Victor L. Po
lansky of Carnegie Tch to 
ceive a "Golden Bullet. This 
award is symbolic of his being 
lected as a member of the ten r 
All - American Collegiate Rifle 
Team.
Vic climaxed a successful sea
son by winning the National In
dividual Intercollegiate Rifle 
Championship with a score of 293 
out of a possible 300. In the So
ciety of American Military Engi
neers Trophy Match, he placed 
third in the nation. He consistent
ly led the Carnegie team in scor
ing this season. The Plaid rifle 
teapi finished second in the 
Greater Pittsburgh Intercolleg
iate Rifle League."
This is the third consecutive 
year that a Tartan sharpshooter 
has placed on the "All-American 
squad. John Herr was so honored' 
in 1955 and 1956.
Vic graduated from Central 
Catholic in 1955 and is a sopho
more majoring in physics at Tech.
Q. And just what sold you ort it?
A. Lots of things, really. But when I s
Q. Sure you wont get lost in the shuffle?
A. Not there! I've talked with a lot of outfits, and 
its easy to see Burroughs is a company thats 
pulling for you all the time. Theyre convinced 
that young engineers are the key to their expan
sion. And their policys to promote from within. Thats for me.
Q. Future look pretty good there?
A. Great! Theyve expanded their engineering staff 
seven times since 1945. And with all the new 
products they have on the way, theyre ready for their biggest growth yet.
Q. What's the bulk of their workcommercial or
A. Id say commercial, for sure. Theyre a leader in 
business machines and data processing equipment. And that means plenty of work in mechan
ics, electro-mechanics and electronics. But theyre 
in the thick of defense work, too... that involves 
research and development in ballistic missiles, 
electronics, computation, data processing, optics, 
magnetics, communications, and many others.
Q. I suppose they have a lot of places to work?
A. Detroits the home office, you know, and their 
new multi-unit research centers in Pennsylvania. 
Plants in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
Michigan and California. Oh, yes . . . and in 
Canada, Great Britain, France and Brazil.
Q .Did you go,into company benefits with them?
A. They actually pioneered a lot of the benefits. You 
get hospitalization insurance for yourself and 
your dependents, secure retirement and. educa
tional aid programs, sick benefits, paid vacations, 
of coursethe whole shebang. Why not ask for 
the booklet they put out. It gives you an inter
esting picture of the whole Burroughs setup.
SEND FOR THAT FREE BOOKLET TODAYt 
Get full information on tJie unusual opportunities 
Burroughs offers engineering students. See how fast 
and how far you, too, can go in Burroughs biggest expansion yet. Write:
A. L. Suzio 
Placement Coordinator
BURROUGHS 
CORPORATION
Detroit 32, Michigan

---------------------------------------------------

 M'irT; W5T-ORNO TA*TAN-Fie f
Sororify Skits
Fine Arts Lawn was the scene of the sorority presentations of queen candidates last Tuesday. Pictured abbve are six of the seven sororities.
AS NAVIGATOR OR PILOT
The flying U. S.~Air Force is a team of men who command the aircraft and men 
who plan the attack. These are the pilots and navigators, both equally important to 
the defense of America.
You, as a young man of intelligence and sound physical health, may join this 
select group in the world's most exciting and rewarding adventure. Your training 
will stand you in good stead, whatever your future plans may beand you'll be 
earning over $6,000 a year 18 months after training.*
If you are between 19 and 26% years of age, investigate your opportunities as an 
Aviation Cadet in the U.' S. Air Force. Priority consideration is now being given to 
college graduates. For details, write: Aviation Cadet Information, P. O. Box "7608,
GET ON 
THE TEAM 
THAT DEFENDS 
AMERICA
Graduate-Then Fly...U. S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM

---------------------------------------------------

Pare 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday. Mmy 7, 1957
Congress Record
In the recent interviews for mens honor
aries, the candidates were asked the ques
tion What are some'of the things which the 
Student Congress has sponsored, or accom
plished this year? The answer ranged from 
er-umm to mixer. This vague response is 
probably due in part to poor publicity and in 
part fo the laziness of the individual to pick 
up his free copy of the Tartan in Skibo each 
Tuesday.  However, whose fault it is is 
neither here nor there, the important thing 
is to correct the situation. Since the present 
Congress ,has only one more day before it 
steps aside for a new one, this is an appro
priate time to review some of its accomplish
ments.
first undertaking of the new Congress 
was the sponsorship of Campus Chest. Early 
In the year it elected two competent persons to 
act as leaders of the committee and started 
making plans for the campaign held the last 
part of October. As was noted in the editorial 
last week, it was a $3000 success.
Throughout the year it set up more com
mittees to investigate campus problems and 
spent much effort to get these co-ordinated.' 
In addition it asked and received aid from 
persons not officially elected to the Congress.
You may recall that it was a Student 
Congress suggestion that Tech once again 
adopt an activities fee. The members of the 
Executive Committee felt that such a fee
it their activities-fees.
finally......................
ng the student body e 
is Committee is now
Although the' bill
hopes of giving the independents parties com. parable to the Friday night sorority and fra
ternity parties. The interest shown by the 
dorms in these affairs has encouraged the 
Congress to continue sponsoring parties next 
year.
Probably the committee of which most 
students have the greatest knowledge is the 
Spring Carnival Committee. In the past the 
honoraries took entire responsibility for the 
weekend, but this year it is being handled 
by members of Student Congress selected to 
be committee heads and volunteers from the 
general student body. Anyone who wanted 
to contribute time and ideas 
the
experience planning and organizing Carnival 
week end were not around to be consulted 
when problems arose. As a result some of the 
solutions proposed, and some of the rules made, 
left much to be desired in clarity, and in some 
 quarters of Tech campus confusion reigned. 
On the whole, though, the improvements made 
in sorority campaign publicity; booth and mid
way qualifications outshine the errors in judg
ment.. In addition the fact that more persons 
were eligible to and did participate in the plan
ning of the week end is an accomplishment 
not to be overlooked.
At present the Congress is in the pro
cess of selecting recipients of an activities 
key to be awarded at Call Day on the basis 
of the points system set up by a committee 
elected at the beginning of the year.
As if all of these time consuming activi
ties were not enough to keep any organiza
tion busy, the Student Congress also allo
cated money and approved budgets of all or
ganizations under its jurisdiction, recognized 
newly formed organizations and designated 
all school events.
However, by far the most important thing 
which the Congress has done is to establish 
itself as a functioning part of the Tech com
munity. Starting practically from scratch, it 
has laid a foundation upon which next years 
Congress can build. This was no small job 
and much credit should go to those who have 
worked so diligently to prove the workability 
' and usefulness of a student government.
A.F.
Inquiring Reporter"
Sorority Skits
*3 +He WH\TeS\ 
'Booti. h/e. rules next vjear ?
Letters To The Editor |
Noisy Library
giSSSHS
I have visitd several other co 
and iinone8have I^vTrencoun
those oi us who -want to study 
will have a decent place to do so.
Voting Failures
members oi the Tech stiidenfbody
; who really want to do i
part in .campus activities

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 7. 1957CARNEGIE TARTANFaitiT
Club Presents Colorful Musical 
Club Presents A Colorful Music
By Bob Hamilton
Last nights gala premier of this years Scotch and Soda proJuction"Where Do We Go From Here was the most colorful and 
'he funniest musical success the famed club has ever produced. The 
how is beautifully tied together, satirizing everything fr
residential uprisings in South*-:----------------------------------------
America to the weight-conscious
American woman.
One cant help but leave the 
how "thinking and smiling" over 
uch hilarious skits as Peter Pan 
nd Hypocritic Oaf and singing 
ome of the catchy tunes like
nsomnia, and "Weve Got The 
sst of Everything.
Technically, the show operates 
: smooth as a kid glove, thanks 
John Boss, Sally Lindsay and 
eir crews. The audience is soon 
vare of the gruelling sessions
and numerous hours which must 
have been spent in learning to 
maneuver scenery and prop 
changes with such ease and pre
cision. And speaking of props and 
scenery you have to see the show 
.to appreciate their magnitude and careful detail.
Of course, what makes Scotch 
and Sodas Theatre-i n-theRound so exciting and effective 
is the lighting. Over-head lighting 
gives the audience a completely 
new concept in theatrical enjoy
ment.
The choreography, thanks to 
Bob Protheroe and Caroi Lou 
Fidder, is excellent. The dances 
are skillfully blocked and execut
ed by an extremely talented dance 
ensemble.  Denise Getsie once 
again comes through with a beau
tiful interpretive ballet routine, 
which lends a note of eligance and 
gracefulness to the show.
Three newcomers to S 'n S this 
year, Janet Young, A1 Goldstein 
and Janet Epstein, captivated the 
audience in last nights perform
ance; Janet Young with her ren
dition of Finish Your Dreaming, 
A1 with his many and varied 
comical additions and Janet Ep
stein with her character .portray
als. And needless to say, last 
year's starring recruits, Joan 
Feldman and Frani Jungk are 
fabulously funny:. Jo Todes and 
Bev Salvatore are  back in the 
show this, year againalong . with 
Shirley-Everson.
Student Campaign 
Is Accumlating 
Symphony Funds
In response to the urgent plea 
for funds from the Pittsburgh 
Symphony, Tech students have 
organixed a Save Our Sym
phony drive. This campaign is 
the only one of its kind among 
the citys five colleges and uni
versities.
Under the direction of Mrs. 
Norman Dawes, secretary of the 
campaign for the Symphony So
ciety and wife, of Dr. Norman 
Dawes of CITs history depart
ment, a committee of interested 
students has been conducting a 
campiis fund-raising drive. Chair
man of this committee iS Bud 
Palmer; others taking an active 
part include Stephanie Mackay, 
Ann Mehler, Dina Ghandi, Re
becca Mansh, Ron Barron, and 
Natalie Laird.
So far the campaign has been 
directed at the student body. 
Committee members have can
vassed the towers in Morewood 
and have set up a table in Skibo. 
Last night, sorority members vis
ited the fraternity houses for do
nations. Members of organizations 
on campus have also been asked 
to contribute, either individually 
or as a group. Scotch and Soda 
offered to give a benefit perform
ance, but this was precluded by 
the lack of an opportune time.
The .committee plans to extend 
its campaign to the faculty next 
week, when volunteers will con
tact faculty members personally. 
Any student interested in assist
ing in this phase of the drive is 
asked to-get in touch, with - Bud 
Palmer.: Canvassers are .partic-r. 
ularly needed - to .contact E&S 
.faculty members.
Results' of the drive to date 
have been most gratifying to the 
committee, whose aim is to make 
a worthwhile contribution' to 
th $350,000 needed if the Sym
phony is to continue to exist. Do
nations can be given to the com
mittee or mailed directly to the 
Symphony Society (with a nota
tion of CIT-to facilitate final-'tabulation of the campus drive.)
CFP Action
[continued from page 1] 
and they commended them for 
their prompt action.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE. PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First 
PaaCA RaNAEaNG
3606 Forbes St - MA 1-0933
l/t.llt WEIGHT
TUXEDOS
POWDER BLUE JACKETS
AND
WHITE DINNER JACKETS
Complete Rental Service For Your 
Spring Carnival Dance
STUDENT DISCOUNT
LIBERTY DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
East Liberty,5964 Baum Blvd. HI. 1-5972 
Downtown130 - 7th St. AT. 1-6539J
They also made 4 the discovery 
that, although theoretically there 
school night .watchman servat no time during, this Mon
day evening did any one of them 
make his presence known.-If the
watchman were around,v. he-jnight 
have been able to dissuade .the 
students himself, or at ieast .could 
have contacted a responsible 
school official who could have in
tervened.
SIEGMAN BROTHERS
IPN/a EG/ IPN //T
3520 Fifth Avenue, Oakland 
(Across from Falk Clinic)
MU. 1-8712Free Parking in Rear .
Student Discount Cards Honored
jack
'8.M0.CW
! with his new *
I SONIC
Ever since Jack bought his new 
Sonic CAPRI phonograph ac (he 
local college store  hes become 
the.biggest BMOC ever. You 
cao join him and be the biggest ever, 
too, for you can buy a CAPRI 
phonograph for as little as $19.95.
This month's special is the CAPRI j 
350  a twin speaker high  
fidelity. ponable With 4-speed 
Webcor. aucomacic changer,
-bi' amplifier in attractive - 
two-tone Forest Green., only
at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook. M Y.
YOUR
OPPORTUNITY
in
research, and development 
of missile systems 
at
California Institute of Technology
JET PROPULSION LABORATORY
Pasadena, California
Active participation in the quest for scientific truths  
Definite job security ? Opportunity to expand your 
own knowledge ? Full utilization of your capacities  
Association with top men in your particular field  

Openings now in these fields s 
APPLIED PHYSICS * MATHEMATICS * CHEMISTRY 
AERONAUTICAL, MECHANICAL, ELECTRONIC, AND 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Telemetering  Reactor Physics  Instrumentation  Fluid 
Mechanics  Heat Transfer  Computer Equipment  Inertial 
Guidance  Systems Analysis  Polymer Chemisir/
May 8
Register at Placement Office

---------------------------------------------------

re8-^ARNEGEtATW--TiMd*y>MyT/lS7
Trackers Doivii G ro vors, Bowto Titans
By Eric Suggs
Carnegie Techs thinclads pull
ed somewhat of an upset over 
more highly favored Grove City 
at the latters home track last 
Wednesday but were unable .to 
repeat the feat on Saturday as 
they traveled to New Wilmington 
to meet the Titans of Westmin
ster.
Top Grove City 
The Grove City meet final 
score, decided by the final event, 
was a tight 66-65., Heroes of the 
day were Tom Euston and Del 
Richie, second and third in the 
broad jump, who scored the last 
points Tech needed to win. Del, 
with his next to last jump, came 
from behind to score the final de
ciding point of the meet. The Tar
tans had only seven firsts to 
Grove Citys eight but took 
enough seconds and thirds to tip 
the score their way.
In the winners circle for Tech 
were Larry Bryant, who passed 
Issaco of Grove City in the last 
-80 yards to take-the half mile in
 2:04.4, and Joe Frick, who out
distanced his closest competitor 
by only a fraction of an inch with 
a javelin throw of 161 7. First 
in the two mile was Eric Ottervik 
while Paul Hauser took the high 
jump and Gene Hudak the high 
hurdles. Tech also won the quar
ter mile and the mile relay.
Titans Too - Much 
Tech - was no match for the 
powerful Westminister Titans as 
they were defeated 89-42. The re
sults of the meet were evident 
long before the day was over al
though a few individual  events
Frank Moses 
Is Retiring
Frank Moses beloved Tech ten
nis coach and phys. ed. instructor 
is retiring at the end of 57 years 
of loyal service to the Tech athItic department and Tech stu
dents.
The 68 year old gray haired 
gentleman said that after the year 
is over, Maybe I'll live in Flor
ida. Or maybe I'll go back to my 
home in Massachusetts.
Moses has been Tech tennis 
coach since World War II.
rWhen I was young, I didn't 
think too much of the game, he 
confessed. I was crazy about 
track. I did play tennis but I 
never went out for the team. 
Moses athletic achievement at 
Springfield College, where he at
tended undergrad school, lies in 
his track feats. At a time when 
no one had ever broken 10 sec
onds in the 100 yard dash, Moses 
got down to 10.2.
After graduation from Spring
field, Moses went out to British 
Columbia, where he functioned as 
a one-man coaching staff at Langara School in Vancouver for a 
year. Then World War I came 
along and he served in the Medi
cal Corps.
Moses then coached at the 
Worcester (Mass.) YMCA before 
arriving at Tech.
He has been the tennis coach 
since 1945 and two of his teams 
were undefeated. Moses came to 
like tennis so well that he helps 
out during the summer with Pitts
burghs Junior Davis Cup team.
Frank Moses has been and al 
ways will be loved by his Tech 
students, and Tech students will 
find something really dear to them 
missing come next school term.
Golfers Split 
W edks Matches
By Stan Zionls 
The Tartan golf squad split a 
'pair of matches this past week to 
keep their record even at two and
tWQn Tuesday at the Ncmacolin 
Country Club, the W & J Proxies 
whipped the Tartans. 15% to 3%. 
Friday the Tartans played host [continued on page 101
proved to be exciting contests.
Turner of Westminister won the 
quarter. mile by only inches in 
of the closest races of the 
day. Almost on the heels of the 
quarter came a tie for first in the 
low hurdles between Milt Miles 
ol Tech and Jay DeBolt of the 
Titans. Larry Bryant then ran an 
outstanding 2:01.8 half mile, fight
ing off Chuck Davis bidi for first 
i the last 100 yards.
Following the half-mile Felton 
Brown, Titan sprinter, set a new 
track record by winning the 220 
21.9 seconds. In a previous meet 
he had run a 9.8 hundred yards.
= The long two mile, usually de
cided early in the run, was a three 
way duel right down to the tape
Westminster
s RunL. Osuna C IJkan (C). T.4:45
reco (W). T.:52.<!
3. Barnes (W). T.-1 High Hurdles1.
between Titan Jim Osuna and' 
Techs Dick Hamilton and Eric 
Ottervik. The lead was traded 
cimong these three numerous 
times during the race as the lead
ers played games wiating for an 
opportunity to cinch the win. 
Osuna moved out wilh less than 
a half a lap to go to pass Hamil
ton who finished third. Ottervik 
began his kick too late to catch 
Osuna but in time to get Hamil
ton for second place.
Bryant, Frick Slay Unbeaten
Along with Bryant in the half, 
Joe Frick remained undefeated 
this year as he heaved the jave
lin i60 10 for a first place in the 
event, Don Humes pole vaulted 
to a 10' 6 victory for Tech in the 
only other field event the Tartans
2. Han 
T.26.S
Broad Jump-1. Lynn (G>: 2. Eusto (C); 3. Ritchie (C). D.19'%".Pole Vaultl. Tie HugoMeiner (G)
Netters Top Covies, 
Dukes;Downed byW&J
By Tom Bieg
Coach Frank Moses Tartan squad romped over Duquesne last 
Monday, April 29 to earn a seven to two victory. Playing on the 
Dukes courts, Tech lost only one singles and one doubles match.
Duquesnes Scivaelli played some brilliant tennis in taking the 
second set of the first singles^-
match, but broke down under 
Techs Gene Krygowskis consistattack in the deciding set. 
Steve Rowley and Tom Bieg were 
forced to pull out victories in exr 
tra games of the second and fourth 
singles, while all other Tech wins 
were in straight sets.
Lose at W&J
Tech lost a real thriller to un
beaten W&J last Wednesday. In 
a first singles match that was as 
close as one could ev.er be, Gene 
Krygowski lost to W&Js King 
Hartman, 6-4, 4-6, 9-7. Both met 
traded service breaks early in th< 
final set and then held service.
It was beautifully steady harddriving match in which every 
point was a contest. It seemed 
if Krygowskis experience had told 
over the sophomore W&J star 
when he broke Hartmans service 
and went to match point at 7-6. 
But Techs top man amazed the 
crowd by double-faulting. The 
spell was then broken, and Hart
man ran out the next three games 
in the match.,
Steve Rowley and Larry Dussair 
won equally close matches for 
Techboth played extra games to 
win. Going into the doubles com
petition, the score was tied at 
three all, and W&J won two of 
the doubles in straight sets to cop 
the match.
Whomp Geneva 
On a bitingly cold, cloudy Sat
urday,, the Tartans romped over 
Geneva,. 6-3, to win their third 
victory. As at Grove City and 
Duquesne, Tech clinched the 
match before the doubles were 
played by winning five of six sin
gles contests.
Winning Season?
Tech was scheduled to journey 
to St. Francis 1 yesterday, and 
travels to Westminster, tomorrow. 
The final two matches will be 
played at home next week against 
Duquesne and Pitt, Monday and 
Wednesday. The Tartans'are fav
ored over Westminster and Du
quesne, while not much is known 
about St. Francis, and Pitt will 
be close.
loves to cut loose and cover the miles!
If youre looking for a real "escape artist," 
a car that loves to step out and get 
away from it allwell, it just happens 
that Chevy was born with that urge.
If there ever was a car that loved to 
cut loose and cover the miles, it's this 
one. Yet it's so easy to handle that it. 
even makes city traffic seem a bit 
lighter and parking places a bit bigger.
Chevys pretty easygoing out on the 
highway too. Not pokey. Far from it. 
You find, for example, there isnt a hill 
around that can make it breathe hard
not with Chevrolets high-perform
ance V8 on the pulling end. Youve got 
up to 245* horsepower here for the 
biggest helping of driving pleasure found 
in the low-price field!
Chevys new Positraction rear axle 
(optional at extra cost) adds still more 
pleasure. It delivers greater power to 
the wheel that grips, not the wheel that 
slips. You have surer control and better 
traction op any road surface.
Stop by your Chevrolet dealers 
before another good driving day goes by.
Only franrbiectl Chevrolet, dealersdisplay this famous trademark
See Your Local Authorized Chevrolet Dealer

---------------------------------------------------

Twwl.j, VOL 50 No5.2CAREGIE SCTSCN.UFH Y
(ATOTakesIMTrack 
|KS Is Close Behind
ATO, showing much strength in ruilning events, won the 57 
IM Track meet as Kappa Sig finished second and Sigma Nu third 
This years meet was a t
 success 
testants 
.events.
The ATOs came up with firsts 
in the two lap relay, four lap re
lay, 100 yardkdash and half mile. 
Kappa Sig took a first in the bro&d 
jump, mile, and *220 yard dash. 
Sigma Nu had a tie in the high 
jump, and first in the shot.
.No new records were set this 
year due to the absence of ex-lettermen 
Final Standings.
(1) Alpha Tau Omega........44 %
(2) Kappa Sigma .................37
(3) Sigma Nu..........................26%
(4) Phi Kappa .......................22%
(?) Beta Theta *Pi................15%
(?) Pi Kappa Alpha................ 8
(7) Beta Sigma Rho...................4
Individual Winners 
100 yard dash 
time 11 sec.
. (1) Paris, ATO
(2) Schmidt, KS
(3) Lemmer, PK
(4) Pondy, PiKA
(5) Wilson, DU
220 yard dash 
time 25.4
(1) Schmidt, KS
(2) Lemmer, PK
(3) Pondy, PiKA.
(4) Luppi, ATO
(5) Sopkovich, ATO
- - 440 yard dash
time 58.1.
(1) Dick, PK
(2) Marik, SN
(3) Marquet. PiKA
(4) Hise, BTP
(5) Hough, KS
880 run 
time 2:19.1
(1) Houston, ATO
(2) Summerville, KS
(3) Harbison, SN
(4) Kissell, PK
(5) Jakub, Kfi
Miie run...............
time 5:17.7
(1) .Jakub, KS
(2) Harder; Ind.
(3) Niethamer, ATO
(4) Doblas, BTP
(5) Kusic, ATO
2 lap relay 
time 1:21.7
(1) ATO (Stotsenburg, Ay
ers, Paris, Luppi)
(2) KS
(3) SN
4 lap relay 
time 3.02.2
(1) ATO (Achilles, Klivington, Stotsenburg, Atkinspn)
(2) PK
120 low hurdles 
time 15.5
(1) Moore, BTP
(2) Harsh, Indep.
(3) Lay, BSR
(4) Paris, ATO
(5) Long, KS
IM Dinner
The annual intramural dinner 
will be held at Frankie Gustines 
at 6:30 on Tuesday, May 21.
The dinner will be attended by 
the IM Board, Managers Club, 
Members, and supervisors of the 
, IM program. These include Mr. 
Cratsley, director of athletics, Mr. 
Birdy, head of the IM program, 
and Messrs. Haines, Boyer, Milie, 
and Moses.
The group will honor Mr. 
Moses who is retiring from the 
Tech alhletic department at the 
end of this year.
Nominations In 
For Intramural
Nominations for IM athlete of 
the year where made at the IM 
Board meeting last week.
Those nominated are:
Joe Visconti ................Phi Kappa
Del Ritchie ... .Alpha Tau Omega 
John Hvi2dos ...^....Phi Kappy 
John Wilton .... Delta Tau Delta 
Ron Fahle . Sigma Alpha Epsilon i 
Hank Doney .......Pi Kappa Alpha j
The winner of the award will j 
be announced at call day, during ! 
Spring Carnival.
Faculty; Wins Handball
The Faculty Bulldogs defeated 
the Siaters for the 57 IM hand
ball championship.
The Bulldogs made short work 
of the SIA team by winning three 
sets to none.
In the first match, undefeated 
Mel Cratsley walloped Hirth of 
SIA 15-4 and 15-3. Boyer of the 
faculty defeated Lagenberg 8-15, 
15-0, 15-10, and "Ace Birdy came
through with the final match win
ning over Welsh 15-5, 5-15, 15-9. 
Mr. Haines, ;the fourth .member of 
the winning team, was riot re
quired to play in the finals since 
the faculty wrapped up the match 
with their three wins. ^ 
The Siaters reached the finals 
by defeating Beta Sig. 3-1, while 
the Faculty team beat Beta Theta 
Pi 3-0 to gain their final berth.
OUR LAWLESS LANGUAGE
The laws that govern plural words 
I think are strictly for the birds.
If goose in plural comes out geese
Why are not two of moose.then meeset 
If two of mouse comes out as mice 
Should not the plural house be hicet.
If we say he, and his, and him 
Then why; not she, and sfrjs. and skim t
MOIAIt The singularly plural pleasures 
of Chesterfield King make a man fee' 
tall as a hice. So don't be a geeseI 
Take your pleasure BIG. Take 
Chesterfield King. Big length .. 
big flavor .. . the smoothest natural 
tobacco filter. Try em.
Cheeterflold Kins gives you more 
f what you're smoking fori
$50 goes to Paul R. Salamone, City CoUege of N. Y., for Au Chester Field poem.
Al I*lnlz, lilPi, trying for high jump.rst.
You smoke refreshed
A new idea in smoking..^all-new SaleiTI
r>:v.7.
U *' ' ' A
mg*.
r ; t k/v ... y rwjw ir \ '
 menthol fresh (Think of a Spring breeze blowing over fresh, green grass and youll have a
* good idea how refreshing all-new N,M7F Cigarettes taste. The freshest taste rich tobacco taste t in cigarettes flows through N,M7F19 pure white filter. Rich tobacco taste with
new surprise softness...menthol-fresh comfort. Try N,M7F.youll love era. most modern filteruesdy refreshes your taste

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 7, 1957
Technical
[continued from page 8] 
Walker (Ind. Mgt. 59) discusses 
the possibilities for preserving 
ioods by this novel technique, 
Leisure ' time is also.. time for 
reading. Our industrial society 
' has made . notable communica
tions. Contrary to popular opin
ion, research in .printing did not 
stop with the invention of type. 
William Mowry (Prt. Mgt. 57) 
offers some of the latest develop
ments in printing techniques.
Television 
And after the newspaper is 
read, in the leisure following sup
per, television is the evenings en
tertainment in themajority of 
American homes. Robert Russell 
(E.E. 57) tells how light ampli
fication may make the console TV 
of the present a thing of the past 
in the future.
So much for the individual and 
collective fruits of research. By 
reading the above eight articles 
one. can see how our -industrial
- -growth is sustained by research 
years before the need. But how 
about the fundamental research 
that, which Carl Arendt tied in 
: with, philosophy in the February 
Technical? There is more mist 
in our crystal ball -in this area 
than in applied research ^because 
economics is not the criterion for 
development.
Rather it is man's inexorable 
quest for knowledge which will 
dtermin its nature. For exam
ple, recent events in experiment
al physics, reported by Robert 
Goodrich (Fhys. 58), have top-, 
pled a firm principle  that of 
parity. Many" more principles will 
be built and toppled, even in our 
lifetime. The. fture of engineer
ing and science rests on this as 
much as on the more concret as
pects of applied research.
Relays
[continued from page -2] 
thick-goo consistency. One man 
from each opposing team climbs 
onto an end of the plank and, at 
the starting whistle, tries to knock 
..the other man off with a pillow. If 
' he succeeds, he must himself stay 
on the plank for a required num
ber of seconds to win.
Those spectators who desire 
front row seats for the event, held 
on Carnegie Union lawn at 2:00 
Saturday afternoon, are advised 
to wear old clothes, as the losers 
frequently create rather large 
splashes.
Faculty Egg Toss 
Vying with plank jousting as 
the messiest activity of Spring 
Carnival is the faculty egg toss. 
Members of the faculty throw raw 
eggs back and forth to each other, 
the object being to catch an egg 
.thrown the longest distance with
out breaking it.The psychology department, 
who seem to have a natural ap
titude fpr this sport, will be out 
to. defend their three-year cham
pionship. Students are advised to 
bring their frying pans and be on 
the Fine Arts lawn at 2:30 Friday 
for this event.
Golf
[continued from page 8] 
to Westminster at Alcoma as they 
downed the Titans, 3% to 2%. In 
. the individual matches, Tom 
Schorr won, Fred Heider tied, 
Marty Fertal lost, Jerry Coon 
won, Bill Wilton lost, and Jerry 
Kreuzer won. The medalist laurels 
went to Tartan Tom Schoor who 
shot a four-over-par 76.
The week'we'face WVU and
 Duquesne.Tom Schorr
Tom SchoOF; senior mechanical 
engineer, began playing golf at 
the age of fourteen when he was 
a caddy at the Duquesne Golf 
Club.He started Tech in the fall of 
1953 and by spring was number 
two man, finishing the season with 
a 2-3-2 record. As a sophomore he 
again held second man and im
proved his record to 4-2-1. Last 
year, .with the graduation of Ed 
Glpro, Tom took over as number 
one man and team captain. His 
record held steady at 4-2-1
IM Board Selects Soccer Stars 
Beta Sigs Ko Ko Lay Is MVP
All league and aH-school soccer 
selections were picked at the IM 
meeting last week.
Those chosen are:
. Skibo League 
Livengood, KS Garcia, ATO .
Neubauer, PiKA 
Ferrentino, PiKA 
Long, KS 
Ramsey, KS
Kiltie League
KoKo Lay, BSR 
Zimmerman, SN 
Straus, BSR 
Feldman, BSR 
Mijs, SN 
Garrett. SN
AR-School
Forwards
Lay, BSR 
Zimmerman, SN 
Livengood, KS
IT IS NEVER 
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
| fill Work Pane On Our Premises ~|
Campus Cleaners
Backs 
Feldman, BSR 
Long, KS
Garrett, SN
Most Valuable Player 
Koko Lay, BSR
Being selected most valuable 
player is no new experience for 
KoKo, as he was All-Burma a 
while back.- His' consistent playmaking and driving shots carried 
Beta Sig to the all-school cham
pionship.
Softball Starts; 
Obelisks, ATO, 
Trojans Stand Out
By Hilliard Wood
The 57 IM softball season got 
underway with several games al
ready played.
ATO got off to a good start in 
Tartan League action defeating 
the S.A. Guild 14-3. The Grad 
Ramblers, another strong team in 
[continued on page 12}
FANTASTIC DISCOUNTS
ON NEW FORDS AND ALL MAKES USED CARS 
Call WALLY DONOGHUE
EM. 1-0877BOX 337 CIT
FOR THAT LUST 
FLING BEFORE FINALS:
DUTCH BUILDS LOVELY RATSKELLER 
PARTY ROOM  SPECIAL PRICES 
TO ALL STUDENT GROUPS
DUTCH ST. RESTAURANT
6018 Broad St., E. Liberty EM 1-93
"Business and pleasure do mix...
ROBERT H. WENTORF, JR., Ph.D., University of Wisconsin, 1951
Until I joined General Electrics Research Labora
tory in 1951, I never realized science could be such 
a challenge  or so much fun. My job involves re
search in physical chemistry  the investigation of 
new ideas which can lead to new and better products 
people can use. In a company of this size, I have the 
unique advantage of having the tools and facilities I 
need and the experience of others close at hand. And 
in return, of course, I'm expected to apply myself to 
the best of my ability in each new job. As I see it, 
if a big company like General Electric invests time, 
money and faith in my creative ability, and if I re
spond by creating, then we both benefit. To me, at 
General Electric business and pleasure do mix*/
The achievements of 31-year-old Robert Wentorf 
speak well of his ability to make the most of the op
portunities offeree^ at General Electric He recently
created borazon  a cpmpletely new, diamond-hard 
substance which promises far-reaching effect on in
dustrial processes and everyday living. i
There are more than 27,000 college graduates at 
General Electric. Each is provided the opportunity 
for self-development in the hope that his creative 
ability will bring forth new ideas. As General Electric 
sees it, these new ideas, stemming from man's native 
curiosity, will lead to the development of countless 
products as yet undreamed of for our nation's defense 
industries, and homes.
A physical chemist at General Electric conducts studies of iha 
atomic structure of mailer, and of the way atoms and molecules interact under a wide variety of conditions. 
?h>gress /s Our Most important Thxfixf
GENERAL ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

Taeriar, Mn 7, 1957CARNEGIE TARTANPre Jl_
*3t
,This page edited by Evening School Students of the ' 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
|4dltor ..................................................................................... Emily Muhic
gjReporter ............................................................................... John Van Roll. Jr.
i Emily Muhic Considers School 
^Her Second HomeMisses Techm ...^ Why do you spend so much time'going to all those meetings at 
school? That school is' like a second home to you, you are there so 
Iplmuch! Dont you. get tired going to all; those activities? j|sj How many times these questions were asked., of me? I always
|&jwas happy to rejbly that I have---------------------------------------------------
|;iinet so many wonderful people 
fi.f: at CIT that I found much' pleasure in their company.
True, at times I was a . little 
'j| discouraged in writing for the 
Plaid because I knew there 
so much going on but I-was.
Ijf able to get the information
could pass it on' to the. other 
$3, readers. Im sure we ail would 
have enjoyed extending our congratulations to some one who reccived some honor in. his .chosen 
field. or we would like* to have 
sent ourbest wishes for happii ness to a. newly engaged-.couple 
or newly weds and share in the' 
jov of: a new. baby. Not kowirig 
who these people were disappointSideline News 
And VieT
By John VaVHoll, .
Trinitrotoluene commonly refered to as TNT, has no connec
tion with the activity to take place 
at Mt. Mercys Antonian. Hall on 
Tuesday, May 7,'at 8:30 p.m. In 
this instance TNT means Then,
Now, snd Tomorrow. The scope 
of this play presented by the 
Amethysts Club', traces the history 
of woman in drama, and is'an 
enjoyable  if ' not too authentical 
episode. If you enjoy comedy, 
laughs, music, and drama this 
show will not leave you wanting. 
So, what 'else Is new? .
A recent newspaper story en
titled,  Woman Nam'ed Mother of 
the Year is without a. doubt, not 
an unusual story.' I have yet to 
read an instance wherein the sex 
of the mother was anything olher 
than female.
The fielil continues 
A Veterans Administration offl-. 
cial recently stated that he has 
some doubts that Congress would 
be justified in extending educa
tional benefits of the Korean GI 
bill to peacetime veterans. T. F. 
Daley, VA -associate general 
counsel,, states that in most in-r 
stances a draftee can anticipate 
and' plan for his period of obli
gated service in a manner which 
would minimize its impact on his 
education' and his career. The 
cost of extending benefits to those 
inducted after January 31/ 1955, 
tho present cut-off date, would 
run up to an estimated 540 mil
lion dollars a year by 1962.
It appears that the peace time' 
veteran is being penalized because .
/as not afforded the opportun
ity of firing' a shot' in actual
combat. The fact - that he represents a detefrent to .further ag
gression seems to be taken very 
lightly akin to the fireman whose 
value is .never measured until a 
flre occurs.
Summer workshop 
The College of Fine Arts - will 
offer a summer -workshop 'for 
teachers in addition to the -regu
lar summer sessions courses. The 
workshop consists of such courses 
as metal-work, ceramics, printmaking, and jewelry design. The 
proposed fclan is that each stu-: 
dent'may spend two weeks of in
troduction to these fields, select 
one' to his or her liking, then 
spend six weeks of concentration 
onthe selected course. Registra
tion will begin on Monday, June 
24. '
course of six weeks duration 
(June 24-August 3) is open to 
teachers of printing, employees 
of commercial printing - plants, 
and other graphic arts enthusiasts. 
Previous ducation, training, or 
experience is'not a pre-requisite.
Literary Field 
Joyce and Shakespearel, a 
b'ookwritten by Wililam MSchutte, associate professor of 
English, has been placed on sale' 
by the Yale University Press. The 
book is a study of the nature and 
extent of the Shakespeare mate
rials inJames Joyces Ulysses.
Sorority Has Play 
Night at Playhouse
Phi Gamma Pi members met at  
the home of MrV.Eob$rt;ScKw 
on . -Sunday evening,--...v April >-26...! 
Plans were discussed ^regarding 
the possibility of members attend^-, 
jng dinner and a play at the^Pittsburgh Playhouse early in June; . 
Some of the members who. were.. = 
present included: Ellen Gonter,- . 
Lorraine Harz, Franees . Dubich*;: 
Mary Alice Peterson, Peggy Hast 
and Cleo Mustakis. ..
Two. of our members, who, have.; 
been seriously ill, were. unable/to - 
attend . this  get-together. They . 
were, Sandra Dunn,  president, 
and Emily Muhic. j;.
Newman Banquet 
Scheduled for May
Sunday, May 19, 6:oo P-ni. is 
the date' to encircle in red on; 
your Ngwman calendar. This .is 
'the date of our annual banquet 
to be held at the Carnegie Union. 
-The cost per person Will be $2.25 
and tickets may be purchased 
from John Spisak,  Dolores; Neff; 
Liz Bogus, and Nelson''Nlccolai. ' V :
We have asked His .ExceilencyV 
Bishop. John Dearden to-be'- guest 
speaker. Confirmation has not yetbeen received but we -are  most 
hopetil -that it wil.l be received 
shortly.  > ",
SU/
edlittle.
Now; when trouble paid
 visit. I found just how much my 
association at CIT has meant. I 
miss attending class in the P&D 
i department. I miss all the meetM ings arid friends there, I miss
 writing for the Plaid and I miss 
meeting-whatever group happenH ed to -be at the Union on Friday 
JJ night.vOn those nights I had in
fo teiesting talks with the Chinese, 
- Indian' Hillel and ^International 
gf -Clubs. All of which proved'to be 
ga a delightful way of spending an 
evening. -
Hospital Stay
tri During my stay at the hospital.
I had proof that I. met the best 
:-] and nicest people-at school and I 
*3 would like to thank veryone, 
in particular my fellow Newmanrj ites. I would like to say thanks 
73 lor taking over the Plaid. 
3 Thanks for all the cards, calls, 
gifts, prayers,  and most of all, 
blood donations.
Wfien I return to the hospital 
* for major surgenry in a f 
weeks. I will -take; with me 1 
:> knowledge that .my association 
 j CIT has brought me many friends 
v and I pray that I will conquer 
' > this illness and next year join all 
: ! of vou again.
I hope you all have a happy 
t-x summer and God bless each and 
very one of you.
V Emily Muhic
; :  Plaid Editor
Newmanites Hold 
D. C. Conpntion
Our Nations Capitol, Washing
ton. D. C., made a very impressive setting for the Middle At<< lantic Province Newman Club 
  Convention, which was held 
r:1-? April 26, 27, and 28.
>. John Spisak, Eugene Dragojevich. and Dolores Neff attended 
. ; this convention, representing Eve-. rung School Newman Club. They
- have brought back with them a 
.great deal of valuable infornia- lion and many, many memories 
 a wonderful convention.
One of the many highlights o 
"(the weekend was the presence of 
"^Brigadier General Thomas A_. 
.Lane, engineering commissioner 
MOf the District of Columbia. Brig
adier General Lane was the guest
- speaker at the banquet held on 
srSaturday evening.
-i  The Sunday morning breakfast 
iifwas honored by the presence of 
^yMonsignor John Tracy Ellis. TheiNewman weekend was brought 
^Mo a close by the election and in'6tallation of the province offlccft.

---------------------------------------------------

9g Vt CARNEGIE TARTANTaesday, /May 7, 1*57
Midway
' [continued from ,page 1]
Pia  will feature a baseball type 
game The unique thing about this 
will be that a player will be able 
to plav. the game throughout the 
, Carnival by collecting tickets to
ward a home run and th grand 
pnze. -The grand prize is to be a 
large stuffed animal, while, if the 
accumulated tickets are turned in 
early,: a small stuffed afiimal will 
be awarded.
Koke Kappin
KKGs . booth name will 
"Balancing The Budget, as 
their Carnival' campaign name. 
The game is to be KapaKoke, 
game where a fishing pole is used. 
-Prizes -are paired boy and girl pil
lows.
Th Thetas hurricanes will still 
be in town in the form of their 
booths. The name Hurl arid Swirl 
will correspond to their theme to 
follow the hurricanes. A prize 
will be awarded, if the player 
able to knock the milk bottles 
over - with the Wumber o balls 
supplied._If all three milk bottles 
are knocked over the grand prize 
will be awarded, a stuffed animal. 
Second -and third prizes will be 
wpinwheels.
The Sig'TCaps are having their 
traditional.Basketball Throw. The 
playrs will be able-to accumulate 
.points for : th grand prize. This 
year the Sig Kaps are planning 
special event. On Friday before 
the. jazz concert, they .are planning 
to have  shooting competition be
tween three Duquesn and three 
Tech varsity* basketball players. 
This promises to be a. good show 
' and everyone4s invited to watch.
Fraternity Booths 
ATO will feature a satire o 
progressive, education. The booth
- is going to be completely open 
and *a series of three games is to 
be played for the prizes which are
. being withheld as a Surprise.
" The traditional Duck'a'Beta" 
booth will be seen again on the 
cut. This year, however, the them 
behind the game is to be Earth 
Satellite. To win the plyer must 
. first launch an earth satellite by 
sinking balls into a ring, an'd then,
- by the same process, launch a 
rocket to finally duck the Beta. 
The prize will be the traditional 
pin stating 1 ducked a Beta.
If you want to participate in a 
different game, sHoot the soldiers 
over with a ping-pong ball when 
you go to the SAE's Gaza Strip. 
The SAE's also promise special 
lighting effects as an added attrac
tion.
Pop the Pop Girl
The Kappa Sigs are going to 
have two booths,, although only 
one is to be judged. The theme of 
the. booth to be .judged is Yul 
Brynner. The. game, which prom-' 
ises to be a different one, will in
volve putting hair on Yuls bald 
.dome." Interesting prizes are t 
be awarded which will concur 
with the theme. The second booth 
is to be a'hooting gallery where 
the player will have a chance to 
silence the Regent Pop girl by 
hooting bullets into - her mth.
PiKA, in' accordance with  the 
recent academy awards, is using 
as' 'tfcieir. theme Around The 
World in Eighty Days. Plans for 
an extra-special dart game are 
being made with a slowly revolv
ing world covered with balloons
SHORT, SHORT 
SUMMER COURSES
Scheduled i
Utilize Your Sui Hew Time 
?
? TYPING
? IBM KEY PUNCH
? NCR 3100 
ACCOUNTING MACHINES
Telephone ATLANTIC 1.-5386 for Nl.raluremirre IR0N t|iYUUIT O BUSINESS INSTITUTE
dark ildfl., fi 7Ub ertf Awe., Pittsburgh 22,Pa.
 the target. The main attraction 
to be a twelve foot Oscar in the 
front of the booth.
The Beta Sig's are going to be 
working on the reconstruction 
program as their theme. The peo
ple participating in their game 
will be asked to rac to piaster up 
green bathroom tile Avith bubble 
gurn. |The prizes ar to be novel
ties.
Sigma Nu Has Two
A tent,, .decorated,' and open 
three sides is to be the site of 
the Phi Kaps Lucky Eight elec
tric gambling^game. The prizes 
will be given according to the luck 
of the player, who may be able 
to win his money back.
-Sigma u is going to have two 
booths, . both of which will be 
judged. The name of one booth, 
S&N stamp game, is a take'off on 
the grocery store S&H green 
stamps^ The game will be' the 
same as last years, Chuckaluck basket. The second booth is. 
still a mystery. Only the name, 
Behind the Eightball, has been
1984 is here permaturely in the 
form of the Tau Beta booth. A 
large replica of the city of the 
future with a. hoop game within 
it will be the Tau Delts donation 
to the midway this year. The Tau 
Delts are planning surprise prizes
Canal on Campus
Commuters vent your rage at 
the TX booth will be the motto 
at the display whose theme will 
be the parking problem. The game
which all commuters should be 
interested in, is to be a surprise.
The Suez Canal is being moved 
to Techs campus by the Delts. 
The background for the cjmai is to 
be an Arabiarii tent supported by 
a pyramid. The player of. the 
game .will be given a sling shot 
with which he will have three trys 
to break the booties thus blocking 
the canal. If' he succeeds, he will 
become a Nasser, and appropriate 
prizes will be awarded.
The DUs have as their theme 
this year, the famous mad bomber. 
The [object of their game will be 
to hit a'DU, who will be swinging 
oh a swing supported by two dec
orated towers, with aballoon fill
ed with water.
Conference
[Continued from page 1) 
will cost' $1.25 and is by reserva
tion only. Blanks may be obtain
ed in the Dean of Students office 
today and must be returned by 
next Monday, May 13.
Softball
Return all softball equip
ment to the towel room as 
soon as possible. Failure to 
Thave equipment in by noon 
%fter the game is played will
Softball
[continued from, page 10] 
this league, beat the. Met Grads 
19-16, but were then overcome by 
Kappa Sig 17-9.
Sigma Nu, a strong team in the 
Kiltie. League, beat TX 15-11, 
while SAE \B downed Obelisk 
B 16-10. EE-ME also defeated. 
TKN 8-7.
DU tr.ounced the Civiis 24-2 in 
a wild contest in Scot' league ac
tion. Meanwhile Phi Kap dropped 
the Printers 7-5 and then the 
Civiis came back to down the1
Clyde Street AC 13-12. .
In. Plaid League, games . the 
Obelisk "A lived up to .pre-sea
son billing winning over Citcom 
15-3 and then over the. Betas 7-4. 
Citcom -came back to down Phi 
Kap B 6-3, and the Phi Kaps 
took it. on the chin again* this time 
to the Betas 10-7.
The Trojans, a strong team in 
the Skibo League downed PiKA 
12-11. The Tau Delts also drop4-5 and then beat the Architects' 
ped the Architects 10-5.
In the Tech League, the Deits 
topped ATO B 6-3, while SAE 
overcame the Englishmen 11-10.
Delle-Donne. 
Dance, Studio
presents a special rate 
for C.I.T. students
c
Per Person
For group leSsons in Fox Trotj 
Waltz, Jitterburg, Novelty Pol
ka, rumba, Tango, Samba, Mam
bo, Cha-Cha and Merngue.
3800 5lh Ave., Oakland
Mr. Delle-Donne
says:
Besides making you popular and giving great 
enjoyment, dancing develops admirable per
sonality traits.
Questions students ask DuPont
 and some of the answers iir summary form
"Do you hire men who have deRnite .military commitments?" 
>asks Oran A. Ritter/Jr., qf Louisiana Slate University.
Yes, because Du Pont has always been interested in men on a 
long-term basis.- DuPont has employed many graduates with 
military commitments even though tfcey were due to report 
for duty a few weeks after joining the Company.
"Would a graduate degree help my chances for advancement 
at DuPont?" asks John C. Nettleton, of Villanova University. '
Many factors are involved, and an advanced degree would un 
doubtedly have a favorable effect in all technical work, but 
it would probably be .of mbre direct benefit in research orde* 
velopment at DuPont than in production, marketing or sales.
"Where would I work for DuPont?" asks Gaylord E. Mess, 
of Tufls College.
DuPont has more than 140 plants and research and develop* 
ment laboratories scattered through 26 states. If you have a 
definite preference, and DuPont has an opening there for 
which youre qualified, your chances oi getting it are good.
We can give only brief answers to these questions in 
this space. But well be glad to answer them more 
fully, and to try to answer other, questions you may 
have that bear more directly on your own.iuture.. Why 
not write us today? Address: The DuPont Company, 
2507C Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
"How are chances for advancement in a large company like 
DuPont?" asks Herschel H. Loomis, Sr., Cornell-University.
Good! DuPont is large, but its made up of 11 independent 
departments  like smaller companies  under one manage* 
ment. And its a basic policy to promote from within and on 
merit as Company growth creates openings.
21SS1t Sudying 21SS1t edfdyi
.THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH DUPONT THEATER OH. TELEVISION
