TARTAN
November 1 1977 Volume 78, Number 9 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 152133
Tuition goes to $3700
Novvembr19bom7 Vlbuu N8m98, roem78uuo,7 C8ua 79en8m97 gb9C g,b9bmi a,o-u8v7MConcern arises 
over student illiteracy
by Brian Byrnes
In the past several years, educators in 
this country have become increasingly con
cerned about the decline of college-board 
scores and the amount of students entering
* college lacking basic writing and mathemat
ical skills. There is fear that students are 
graduating from college without learning 
basic writing and grammer skills.
To combat this, the Fund for the Im
provement of Postsecondary Education, a 
government agency, has given grants to 
eight colleges and universities to attack 
the problem of poor writing among college 
students.
CMU had received such a grant, and has 
instituted various services to help its 
students.
In 1975, a committee studying H&SS 
requirements for engineering and science 
students recommended that the Univer
sity should establish a Communications 
Skills Clinic, with the sole function of 
helping students improve their ability to 
write. The Communication Skills Clinic 
(which has since been expanded to the 
Communication Skills Center) is only one 
facet of course and organizational changes 
intended to improve students writing skills 
and their reasoning and comprehension 
skills.
According to Pete Jones, Director of 
CSC, the staff members work with each 
student individually on his/her particular
Court convenes
writing difficulty. The Center is also de
veloping challenging writing mini
courses. The courses were developed at 
Stanford University and use computer aid 
to present and help correct writing 
problems.
In the fall of 1976, Freshmen Writing 
was reinstated as an H&SS requirement, 
the primary aim of the course is teaching 
students basic g,b9bmi skills. Last year, stu
dents were placed in heterogenous classes. 
This year, because H&SS students wanted 
separate sections, and CFA students had 
rom9bme8n om a1i8 U
by Belinda Quan
Despite a profitable operation last year, 
and a tuition hike of $300 this year, Presi
dent Cyert has announced another $300 
tuition increase for the 1978-79 academic 
year, bringing the undergraduate tuition 
up to $3700.
The increase was the result of a commit
tee investigation into college costs for that 
year. This is the third year in a row that 
this process has been followed; and the 
third year in a row in which a tuition in
crease has resulted.
The committee looked into rising util
ity, staff, faculty, and miscellaneous costs. 
The largest controversy arose over faculty 
salaries. Professor James Langer, commit
tee member, expressed concern over the 
fact that faculty salaries are falling behind 
those at other schools. Because of this, 
a $500 tuition increase was discussed, but 
Cyert has stated in the past that he wants 
to keep tuition increases to 10%, so a 
$300-$350 increase was recommended in 
the end.
Vice President of Financial Affairs 
Richard Van Horn stated that some faculty 
members felt that this forced them to ac
cept lower pay and subsidize students. 
However, Langer said that this was not the 
feeling among the faculty.
After the committee, composed of stu
dents, faculty and administration, made its 
recommendations, Cyert approved an in
crease of $300. This increase was an
nounced last August in the annual Parents 
Bulletin.
Cyert wants to keep the tuition low, so 
that middle-income families can afford to
Lounge renovation to begin
by Linda Deak
Renovation to lounge areas is expected 
to begin next semester, but the primary 
obstacle in this project is the lack of stu
dent input, commented NBill Dillon, 
Director of Auxiliary Services.
John Muse, acting as a liason between 
the students and architects for the project, 
agrees with Dillon that student indifference 
to the lounge proposal is only postponing 
the decision. Muse adds, I plan to meet 
with the architects, Damianos and Pedone 
(CMU alumni also responsible for the 
Tartan Grill renovation), to convey ex
actly what the students feel is necessary 
for the lounge areas. Unfortunately, I
dont know what all the students want.
Muse, remarked, Students think that 
their ideas will not be used. Although the 
actual building will be professionally con
tracted, the underlying design will hope
fully come from the students or faculty 
of CMU. He has attended student govern
ment meetings to stress the importance 
of student participation in the project, 
but the results have been disappointing.
The ideas Muse has received fall into
either the categories of recreation or quiet
study areas. Dillon was surprised at the
demand for quiet study areas, commenting,
Years ago there was talk of redoing the
lounges for recreation, now there has been 
rom9bme8n om a1i8 s
by Vivian Hunter
In the most serious case heard before 
the Student Court this year, a student was 
fined $600 and given one year disciplinary 
probation.
At approximately 7:30 PM, October 5, 
a CMU student defaced a newly paved 
sidewalk between Scobell and Boss Halls 
with graffitti.
The contractor reported the incident to 
school officials the next day. Director 
of Auxiliary Services Bill Dillon investi
gated the situation, and found another 
student who could identify the suspect.
The case was brought before the Stu
dent Court October 19. The student 
faced charges of malicious destruction of 
University property. Dean of Student 
Affairs Earle Swank labels this a very 
serious charge. He added that this could 
result in suspension from the University.
The Student Court heard the case, and 
passed down a verdict of guilty with miti
gating circumstances. The Court hoped 
to reduce the punishment to disciplinary
probation through this measure, though the 
mitigating curcumstances themselves are 
not available. The student was immedi
ately notified of the decision.
Dean Swank approved the decision 
October 20. The student is being charged 
$300 for the replacement of the side
walk, plus a fine equal to the charge and is 
being placed on one year disciplinary pro
bation as punishment. Because this 
student is on probation, one more disci
plinary offense could result in his ex
pulsion from the University.
send their children here, according to Van 
Horn, who then compared the $3700 CMU 
tuition to the $4475 tuition at MIT and 
the $4650 tuition at Princeton.
Next year, then, the total estimated ex
pense, including room, board, books, and 
incidentals, will rise to $6550, from 
$5900 this year. Van Horn feels the costs 
have not increased as rapidly here as at 
other universities. He also expects tuition 
to rise $300 annually for the next several 
years, with total expense reaching $8000 a 
year by 1981.
Security reports 
crime stats
by Ed Frankenberry
Generally, we have a safe campus, re
ports Michael Corletti, CMUs director of 
security. Corletti commented on crime sta
tistics for the university compiled from 
January through September, 1977, com
pared with the same period last year.
He feels a very serious problem has 
arisen at the gymnasium, where a total of 
$148.25 in cash and $60 worth of personal 
property was stolen in September. Accord
ing to Corletti, a thief vandalized seven out 
of the eight lockers by cutting off the pad
locks. For the past two weeks, no new 
thefts have been reported, but Corletti still 
advices that students only take the 
amount of cash theyll need, whenever go
ing out. Plans have been made to replace 
the lockers with a jjnore secure type which 
dont require padlocks.
Thefts and burglaries in other areas de
clined by 11% over last year. Thefts in 
dorms during September all resulteu 
from unlocked doors, reinforcing the neccessity for locking doors when leaving or re
tiring. Corletti suggests that one of the 
best deterrents [to crimes of this sort] is 
for residents of any area to let Security 
know about unauthorized persons.
Bicycle thefts rose by 123% primarily 
because not enough people use adequate
rom9bme8n om a1i8 s
insicie
Student given probation, $600 fine
news...
Women march against violence (pg. 5) 
Kutznestov is remembered (pg. 9) 
New MIS Dean discusses job (pg. 3)
Cornell writing professor cant write
(Pg 3)
New column; World News Briefs 
(Pg 3)ci nci iciinment...
Lite as a clown (pg. 13)
Joseph Cotton in performance (pg. 15)
Pittsburgh Ballet Theater enjoys 
partial success (pg. 14)
TuitoTnnn
Gridders capture first PAC title (pg. 20 
|ATO-l.M. football champs? (pg. 20i

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTAN November 1, 1977
Security releases CMU crime figures
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 y
locking devices, Corletti explained. Trac
ing stolen goods is often difficult, he 
says since, there hasnt been as many peo
ple registering the bikes [with Security]
Corletti recommends that cyclists invest in malfunrtionsjis_fco
a U-shaped lock that resists sawing rath
er than securing a $300 bike with a $3 
lock.
False fire alarms showed a 23% increase 
which Corletti attributed mostly to system 
null stations had been
????????????
The SDC space
NEWS BRIEFS
C-Book lacks funding
The C-Book is ready. Well, almost 
ready that is.
The C-Book, the CMU student direc
tory, published annually by the A Phi O 
Service organization, is made up, corrected, 
and has been sent to the printer for publica
tion. However, publication can not begin 
until A Phi O raises enough money to cover 
the expenses* of publication.
Revenue from advertisements usually 
covers the costs of publication. But this 
year, several advertisers recently backed out 
of agreements to advertise in the C-Book, 
leaving A Phi O short of funds.
According to one anonymous A Phi O 
member, Weve been getting ads since the 
summer, but now, after losing them, we 
could be up to $4800 short.
Some revenue could be raised through 
sales. Last year, the C-Book cost $.25 
and sales brought in about $500. But in 
the past, the money has been donated to 
charity; last year to the Cancer Society, 
ind A Phi O hopes to continue to do this 
The A Phi O member guaranteed that 
the book would be published, but added, 
how and when, I dont know.
CMU plans mayoral forum
The four mayoral candidates, or their 
representatives, will participate in an open 
Forum, noon, Friday, November 4, in the 
Wherret Room, Skibo.
According to Student Activities Direc
tor Ann Witchner, the moderator will see
these people responding to questions that
will be submitted beforehand by the cam
pus community. Those with questions are 
requested to turn them into the Informa
tion Desk by November 3.
The program is being presented by Cam 
pus Program Planning.
There Are Many Saints 
In the Church!ALL
SAINTS
DAY
NOVEMBER
I
ALL SAINTS DAY MASSES:Holyday of Obligation
12:00 NOON 
5:00 P.M.
Hunt Library Multipurpose Room 
(Use Frew St. Entrance)
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. 
10:30 A.M.
12:00 Noon
Saturday Folk Mass 
Folk Mass
Solemn Liturgy
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose Room
Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. Chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681-3181
activated, in most cases. There have been 
no serious fires since spring, but several 
exterior waste container fires have been 
started, all of which appeared to be pur
posely set.
By far, the largest increase (160%) in 
violent crimes was in the area of assault.
Corletti related three cases where non-uni
versity persons attacked persons from the 
CMU campus. All instances, he says, were 
fortunately without serious injury.
Corletti also described a very notice
able increase in the number of injuries on 
the intramural field since the soccer and 
football seasons began, requiring medical 
escorts to a nearby hospital once the 
Health Center has closed.
The mumber of indecent exposures has 
more than doubled since last year. Through 
September, three arrests were made for 
the offense.
Corletti pointed out that a new escort 
service is available through the cooperation 
of the Carnegie Tech Radio Club. Begin
ning Friday, members of the club will aug
ment the standard escort service (usually 
provided by Security) for weekend ac
tivities.
Corletti feels that through a contin
uous patrol pattern CMUs open cam
pus has been kept secure. He reminds stu
dents that security the protection of 
your personal property has become a 
state of mind.
Muse accepts 
lounge ideas
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 y
a complete reversal of priorities.
The length of time for the renovation 
project is uncertain at this point. Accord
ing to Dillon, Some areas will require 
much more work and money that others.
He cited the Morewood lobby as a sore 
spot desiring urgent attention.
Dillon remarked, The lounge re 
modeling is the first step into the phase of 
a thorough understanding of students 
future needs. We think we have taken 
care of the urgent projects, such as the 
Morewood boiler and domi room remodel
ing, and are ready to upgrade other student 
facilities. The only way to proceed with 
this next phase is to obtain student input.
Muse stresses that he is open tc any 
suggestion, and that he can be reached at 
5784796, or at 325E, Morewood.
AR POLY POLS^-Si Y MICROTERM VECTOR MICROTERM SUTPC SEALS SUTPC SWTPC MICROTERM SEALS LEAR POLY MICROTERM MICROTERM VECTOR M CTOR POLYv''^ I OR POLY POLY POLY MICROTERH LEAR SUTPC SUTPC VECTOR VECTOR POLY POLY POLY POLY SEALS SEALS SEALS
LY LEAB^ |cTOR SEALS VECTOR VECTOR VECTOR SEALS VECTOR SEALS SEAt S VECTOR LEAR POLY SWTPC LEAR MICROTERM MTUP l*S0LY VECTOR VECTOR SEALS VECTOR SEALS SUTPC SUTPC LEAR MICROTERM MICROTERM VECTOR LEAR SEALS SUI nc ^SSTERM SEALS LEAR SUTPC VECTOR LEAR VECTOR MICROTERH POLY POLY SEALS VECTOR SEALS SEALS SEAL:
v SUTPC MICROTERM MICROTERM VECTOR VECTOR SUTPC VECTOR LEAR SUTPC POLY VECTOR LEAR VI 
TPC VECTOR MICROTERM MICROTERM SEALS VECTOR SEALS SUTPC MICROTERM VECTOR SEALS MICROTERM I 
EAR SUT*^WtICROTERM SUTPC VECTOR LEAR VECTOR SUTPC VECTOR VECTOR SUTPC LEAR SUTPC SUTPC Mil 
vrrTnR VECTOR SUTPC LEAR SUTPC POLY SUTPC POLY SEALS SCALS SUTPC MICROTEI
by Stephanie Waite
The last SDC meeting, held Sunday, 
October 23, consisted mainly of a gripe 
session, with Bill Dillon and Gerry Dalton 
present to hear the representatives com
plaints.
Dillon and Dalton heard complaints about Scobell: the showers dont work, 
ditto the water faucets, and there are prob
lems with the lighting. Dillon answered 
that every pressure was being exerted on 
the company that renovated Scobell to 
finish their job. On the topic of work order 
requests, Dillon pointed out that there is 
now no backlog of work orders in the 
Housing Office, so if you send in an order, 
it shouldnt take too long to get action on 
it. If it takes more than a week, says Dil
lon, check it out, make sure they got it.
The representatives then brought up a 
topic that is of concern to many people; 
whether seniors will be offered housing 
next year. At this point, says Dillon, it 
looks like seniors will be offered housing, 
although it will probably require more de
pendence on Webster Hall housing. In the 
event that seniors cannot get housing, 
however, they probably will not know 
until Room Draw. If students on financial 
aid wish to move off campus, their aid can 
be arranged to cover the costs. Students 
here have access to Pitts Off-Campus 
Housing facilities, and at CMU, it is the re
sponsibility of Student Affairs/Activities to 
inform students about off-campus housing.
The new dorm was also discussed. Dil-t /Tj^LOi 1 l\j >: itjh **u . l7rti . .Ion said the dorm will probably not be 
ready by September of 197&, partly be
cause of hassles with the city. Dillon, 
thinks that after the new dorm is built, 
there will probably be plans for another 
new dorm on the drawing board. Its an 
issue addressing the quality of life says 
Dillon. Triples and quads just arent feas
ible housing in the long run.
The Food Service Committee, after a 
meeting with John Eichmuller, announced 
that the Grill was now open until one on 
Friday and Saturday, but this policy would 
only continue with the help of student sup
port. Eichmuller had complaints about 
people behind the counter giving away 
food to their friends, and also about the 
fact that half of the little orange trays at 
the grill have disappeared.
COMPUTER
WORKSHOP
AR SUTPC SUTPC MICROTEK** LEAR 9# 
AR LEAR VECTOR SMTPC VECTOR ALS SWTPC SMTPC VECTOR SMT 
LY POLY POLY MICROTERMj 
LY VECTOR SMTPC POLY^
ALS LEAR MICROTERM^
LY SEALS LEAR NI
CTOR POLY LEA^CROTERM SEAI
AR POLY 
ALS SEAR 150
EALS VECTOR POLY. SMTPC MICROI 
POLYTHE
COMPUTER
WORKSHOP
M SCALS SEALS LLAR SMTPC SW1PC LEAl 
RM FOLY VECTOR SEAIS SEALS POLY SE. IR POLY SEALS LEAR LEAR MILROTERM M 
rERM LEAR I EAR SM1PC SMTPC SEALJ SEi 
LEAR VECTOR VECTOR SEALS MICROTERM 
MICROTERM MICROIERM MICROIERM SMTPl 
VECTOR SMTPC SMI PC VECTOI 
ALS SEALS LEAR LEARS LEAR SEALS LE Al 
SMTPC 
MICRO AR SUTI
TPC POLY PO 
LY LEAR SEA 
TPC LEAR PO 
AR SEALS SE 
CROTERM MICI 
ALS SMTPC SI ALS MICROTE 
ALS MICROTE 
ALS SEALS V ALS VECTOR 
CTOR SMTPC 
CTOR SMTPC CROTERM SEA 
ALS POLY VE 
ALS LEAR SE 
AR VECTOR V 
CROTERM MIC 
ALS LEAR SM 
LY VECTOR S 
LY SMTPC LE 
AR MICROTER CROTERM LEA 
CROTERM VEC 
CROTERM POL LY MICROTEK 
CTOR LEAR SI 
CROTERM SMT 
AR LEAR POL
ges$373g0byB$r
PERIPHERALS
BQK5
Systems for Home, School, and Small Business
CROAAEMCO LEAR SEIGLER MICROTERM
POLYMORPHIC SYSTEMS SANYO
SEALS SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
SMOKE SIGNAL BROADCASTING 
SOUTHWEST TECHNICAL PRODUCTS VECTOR
41 70 Wm. Penn Highway, Murrysville, Pa. 15668 
(route 22 between the Car Wash and Dick s Diner)
412-327-0455
TOR POLY SE Al  
LEAR LEAR Mil 
OLY M1CR0TERM MICROTERM MIl 
ITPC SE AL S MICI 
f RM MICROTERM 
SE ALS fOLY FOI 
C LEAR VECTOR 
M VECTOR VE CTI 
TPC VECTOR VEI 
FOT E RM MICRO TE 
iLS LEAR LEAR S POLY fOLY 
iLS SE ALS SEAL! 
POLY SEALS SL< 
. SMTPC LEAR SI 
I IEAR VECI OR  
>E Al S Ml CRT ERI I SEALS VECTOR 
SMTPC SE AL SI 
MICROTERM MICI 
LEAR POL POI 
S POLY POLY 
C SEAL S LE AK  R VECTOR POLY 
SMTPC LLAR VI 
LEAR VECTOR VI 
H Y VECTOR VEC 
MICROTERM M 
S IEAR VECI01 
Y L I AR l l AR
WHAT'S FOR DINNER TONIGHT?
Stuffed Pork Chops ---------------------Kiltie Cafe

---------------------------------------------------

November 1; 1977TARTANpage 3
AUTHENTIC GERMAN TORTESMorewood Gardens
DON'T MISS ITU!
????????????
Senate murmurs
by Linda Deak
There was a marked difference in Sen
ates actions during the October 26 meet
ing. As a result of the whirlwind appropria
tion session typifying the previous meeting, 
senators questioned minute details of this 
weeks proposals. A few senators were ag
gravated when many of the motions were 
tabled or postponed, but this conserva
tive action shows that Senate is operating 
with a greater sense of responsibility. 
^ A debate arose over a proposal to fund 
the Watermelon Bash. Ken Meinert men
tioned that the event had been funded by 
Senate until 1974. Dean Swank remarked 
that the event was then considered a Fresh
man Orientation Activity because it was 
held during the first two weeks of school 
instead of being scheduled very near the 
UFO rush. Don Simon also reminded Sen
ate that its by-laws prohibited funding of 
purely social events. The motion was with
drawn to be discussed further.
Senate allocated Activities Board 
$3,300 to purchase a dimmer board with a 
condition that it will be available to other 
organizations on campus. At the request of 
AB, a phone will be installed in the projec
tion room of DH 2210 for emergency 
purposes.
^ Chris Russell directed a question to gen
eral campus committee to clarify why stu
dents were required to pay for permanent 
phone installation this year. Swank an
swered, Students are actually getting a 
better deal this year, by exchanging the
22.00 installation charge for four monthly 
service payments.!
A senator asked to rescind the vote 
**of Oct. 19 which allotted a $150 prize for 
the frat or sorority and $150 for the des
ignated dorm area which has the greatest 
percentage of donation to the Blood Drive. 
Senators felt that this proposal excluded 
commuters, but the motion failed.
Senate will conduct its elections on 
November 15, 16 in the Donner, Morewood and Skibo lobbies. Those wishing to 
'have their name on the ballot, should sub
mit their petition to the Skibo Information 
desk by 6:00 PM tomorrow.
CMU attacks illiteracy problem
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 y
conflicting schedules, the course has been 
divided into three groups to fit the needs 
of the specific departments. CIT/MIS/ 
AMS students use a problem-solving ap
proach to their writing, H&SS students in
tegrate their experiences in the writing 
course with their training in basic skills 
through the Colleges core curriculum, and 
CFA students practice analyzing, inter 
preting, and reporting information to spe
cific audiences.
C-MAP was one of the first organiza
tions on campus to recognize the nee,, for 
a tutoring service. The program it runs is 
primarily geared for minority students and 
educationally/economically disadvantaged 
students. C-MAP offers three types of 
tutoring services: informal three-hour
sessions  several nights a week where 
students can just drop in and get help, 
anticipated need tutoring, where the 
C-MAP staff looks at students in the 
August Program and predicts if they will
need help with studies in the future, and 
tutoring upon request, where students 
make appointments for private tutoring 
sessions. According to Carol Cohen, who 
runs the tutoring program, the tutoring 
sessions are viewed as another recitation, 
and the students are limited to a maximum 
of four hours a week per course.
Peer Help also has a service available to 
students called the Free Academic Student 
Tutoring Program (F.A.S.T.), in which tu
toring in all CIT/MIS introductory level 
courses and some H&SS and AMS courses 
is provided. Tutors help students overcoine difficulties with their courses on 
an individual basis.
Walter Dolde, Assistant Professor of 
Economics, says that he encounters {Joor 
organization of papers on the whole. It 
seems as if individual sentences are written 
at disjoint times.
Part of the problem with writing in 
school, according to Linda Flower, Lectur
er in Communications, is that it doesnt 
have purpose. She explained that students
who write just for a teacher, and not for 
some specific audience, find it difficult to 
write.
David Miller, Assistant Professor of His
tory, added that some problems with 
writing are simply mechanical problems, 
but sometimes students dont answer 
specific questions put to them. They 
tend to think of assignments as letters to 
the professor and not as works directed to
wards an unknowledgable audience.
Writing professor cannot write
The Washington Post reports that the 
Dean of Writing at Cornell University is 
under fire for grammatical errors in his 
writings.
To make matters worse, the Post 
states, Robert Farrell, who heads a $1 
million-a-year campus war on illiteracy,  
appears to have written the brief for the 
prosecution. It came last week in the form 
of a letter to the Cornell Daily Sun. 
The letter, written as Farrells defense  
against attacks on the writing program, was 
claimed by Farrells opponents to be the 
most spectacular illustration of the weak
ness the 'war on illiteracy  was supposed to 
combat.  Even his supporters acknowledge 
the letter as awkwardly worded and has 
more than a few grammatical errors.  
According to the Post, the errors in 
Farrells letter might have been over
looked had they been made by anyone but 
a dean of writing.  He used unnecessary
adjectives twice, such as, for example, 
rigid constraints,  which is redundant be
cause constraints are rigid by definition.
But,  the Post continues, he also 
made several serious basic errors. He used, 
for example, 4are  instead of is  in one sen
tence. He mixed a cliche by trying to Set 
the record clear instead of the more con
ventional Set the record straight.  He 
wrote the following run-on sentence: At 
no time did I approach the provost dir
ectly, since it is not my place to do so; I 
report to the dean, he carries affairs as he 
will from that point. 
In addition, some of his sentence struc
ture is confusing and almost impossible to 
follow. For example, he wrote: I had 
communicated with Dean Levin on the 
general problem several times, starting last 
spring, and the second, that of over acceptance came to me in late August.  _________
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS
Compiled by Steven Kane 
WRCT News Director
Sat., Oct. 22: Panama-Preparations made 
for plebiscite on Canal Treaty.
Bar Harbor, Fla.Strike ne
gotiations begin for East and Gulf Coast 
longshoremen.
Sun., Oct. 23: Washington-Hearings con
tinue on South Korean bribery of U.S. 
government officials.
JVashingtorv^lub^
phrey returns to the' Senate after illness.
Mon., Oct. 24: WashingtonBill proposed 
to boycott air service to any country found 
to be aiding hijackers.
WashingtonConference 
continues in efforts to produce an accept
able energy bill.
Panama-Plebiscite shows 
Panamanians in favor of treaty by a 2-1 
margin.
Wed., Oct. 26: U.N.Proposal circulated
for arms embargo against South Africa be
cause of its crackdown on the black minor
ity there.
Thurs., Oct. 27: WashingtonPresident 
Carter orders arms embargo on South 
Africa.
Fri., Oct. 28: U.N.U.N. condemns Israel 
for settlements in Occupied Arab Terri
tories.
WashingtonHouse and Sen
ate Conference on Eneigy broke angrily 
today because of disagreements on many 
point.
New MIS Dean talks
by Elliot Ohlberg
The new Mellon Institute of Science 
Dean, Dan Berg answered questions from 
the TARTAN in a recent interview. The 
responses are printed below.
My main office is located in Scaife Hall, 
but 1 also have an office in Mellon Insti
tute, (the building where biology and 
chemistry are located with their labora
tories). Scaife Hall was chosen for a num
ber of reasons. I wanted to be conveniently 
close to Science Hall, but not appear to be 
singularly associated with those depart
ments housed there, and not associated 
with biology and chemistry. In addition, 
its clearly very important to integrate 
many of the activities between MIS and 
CIT, and being located in Scaife is very 
convenient for facilitating this.
Pb8g7 ho1751 rC1uu8mi8
The job is challenging for a number of 
reasons. One, intrinsically science is important; its important in a professional way, 
but also I think, in a cultural way. It is an 
important part of our present culture and 
will continue to be. More than that, I 
think exciting things are happening in all 
the sciences. So its challenging just from 
being an intellectual exercise; being asso
ciated with things that are on the leading 
edge of knowledge. Working with people 
who are learning it and teaching it. I find 
exciting and challenging.
....But we also have managerial chal
lenges. We have problems in the college of 
science that have to be faced and resolved. 
The clearest example is the lack of a de
partment head in Biology.
....So the combination of intellectual 
challenges, managerial challenges, people 
challenges, and money challenges....I feel 
challenged all over the place! But it is also 
fun, you have to have the challenge to have 
fun.
2aa,8rb1987 g1,v ,87aom78
I am very pleased that in spite of the
rom9bme8n om a1i8 3c1m d8,iI m8g pV c81mI 79,87787 9C8 bvao,91mr8 ot 7rb8mr8M

---------------------------------------------------

CMU V.LP.
page 4TARTANNovember 1, 1977
Lab technician recalls Kuznetsov
by Douglas Weber
Hundreds of Soviet metallurgists came 
to the United States in the early 1930s 
to study metalography. Three of them 
studied at Carnegie Tech, one of whom, 
Vasily Vasileyvich Kuznetsov, has gone 
on to become the Vice President of the 
Soviet Union. Hubert Brooks, then a 
metalography teachers assistant, became
a close friend with Kuznetsov while Kuz
netsov was here between 1931 and 1933.
Mr. Brooks, now a lab technician 
for the Department of Chemical Engineer
ing, said Kuznetsov was an excellent 
student and a very fast learner. Since 
"Kuznetsov was a student, his aspirations 
were built around his studies, rather than 
politics as is Soviet custom, Brooks added. 
Kuznetsov was sociable within the de
partment and the school, but he kept 
to himself (as many diligent, hard
working students do, Brooks comments).
Brooks recalled an incident that hap
pened to the Soviets en route to New 
York City. They purchased a brand new 
Chevrolet here in Pittsburgh (they re
vived a liberal allowance) and wrecked 
it on the highway. They sold the car for 
$100, took a train to NYC, completed
their business there and returned to Pitts
burgh.
Kuznetsov told Brooks many times 
that he would like Russia, and asked him 
to come back to Russia with him. Brooks 
>aid he was delighted to hear that Kuzletsov was Vice President, though 
lot surprised, as he has been a power 
n the Soviet government for several 
years.
The semester is ha If irai/ over, but...
AIESEC 
Commuter Council 
Intramurals 
Oakland Review 
Peer Help
I SAC* 
Scotch 9n9 Soda
it \ not too
i.
Activities Board 
Student Senate 
TARTAN 
Tech Flying Club
Thistle
WRCT
Student Dorm Council
late to get involved.
No. Nothing is ever almost legal. Especially arijuana. Last year alone 420,000 people were rested for marijuana offenses. Of those,90% were or simple possession.But now a growing number of Americans are hinking seriously about changing the present mariuana laws. In fact, some laws have already been hanged. The state of Oregon has successfully -criminalized the personal use of marijuana. The erican Bar Association, The National Council of rches, Consumers Union and The National ducation Association have urged other states to same. An inevitable chain of events has 
Become part of thatchange. Helpushelpyou
11W/TU |L
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION I OR I MI RI (ORM 
Of MARI IV AN A I AWS
2317 M STREET. H. WASHIKfcTON B C 20037
f~~] I endot SIV0O mcmbttihip it (Student* and Military $10 00 
0 |n not a join but I would till like to h*lp wch * contribution
Send along the following NORMI item* Ail thur proceed* from th*r 
sale go loward furthering the light
!N,|
MICM RS* W<w II 0   
.T SHIR I S ft $< '0 _____
S f AMPS 9 $1 00 pt Sheri 
_______M_______J ^ XI
nonQp.
L____--T SHIRTS  14 S**ih________CVOI D MAR) It \%.\
1 1 AF PINS  St 00 **vh
] %tm1 i)m| ......,.....iA PEL PINS I <*>. h
***** ...........................
 I TV ............................*TATf ........................................... /M
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I


I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I


---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1977TARTANpage 5
Marchers cite crime against women
by Ann Narva and Brenda Reed
Tuesday, October 18, at 8:00 PM, ap
proximately 250 people gathered at the 
Public Safety Building for an event titled, 
Women Take Back the Night, March to 
Stop Violence Against Women. The 
march was sponsored by Pittsburgh Action 
Against Rape, The Karate Women, and 
Save Our Selves.
Elaine Rapping from Save Our Selves 
introduced the evening. She gave a speech 
stating in part, We want to focus on 
violence such as wife abuse, street harass
ment, rape and sexual harassment at the 
workplace, not as a personal issue, but as 
a social and political issue. She explained 
that the route of the march was designed 
to symbolize these concerns. Signifigantly, 
the march began at the Public Safety 
Building, and then proceeded through the 
business district to symbolize the sexual 
harassment women receive on the job. 
The pornography theatres on Liberty Ave
nue were included as representative of the 
exploitation of women in the entertainment 
media, and the march ended at the County 
Courthouse. This represented the judicial 
systems failure to effectively deal with 
violence against women.
The crowd, though mostly women, in
cluded men, children, and a number of 
reporters. There was chanting, banners and 
posters. Marchers carried a large banner 
bearing the title of the march and posters 
with messages such as Pornography is 
the Thought, Rape is the Action. and 
Stop beating your wife and children. 
Marchers distributed stickers and flyers to 
passing cars.aqd pnjookers. **:**> *
'WW 'jMl*-40* r' ' > '
Ms. Rapping said that violence against 
women is rapidly rising in frequency. She 
added that marches similar to this one have 
been taking place internationally with as 
many as 20,000 people participating in 
a single event. She stated that the maledominated courts and police reflect myths 
such as, if women are out after dark they 
are asking for what they get; and in the 
case of wife beating, if a man hits his
wife, it is just a domestic quarrel. Ms. 
Rapping also said, the county judicial 
system has not been responsive to womens 
problems; women work and pay taxes and 
yet are prisoners in their homes after 
dark:
Ann Pride, a member of PAAR spoke 
on the history and statistics of rape, and 
the rapidly growing rate of violence against 
women. She stated that the number of 
rape victims in Pennsylvania increases 5% 
every six months. She gave a eulogy to 
the women who have died from violent 
crimes, a speech which her audience found 
extremely moving. She pointed out that 
the attackers of women are elevated to 
fame while the victims are forgotten, citing 
Richard Speck, Jack the Ripper, and David
rom9bme8n om a1i8 yf
p1,rC8,7 a,o98798n *bou8mr8 1i1bm79 gov8mMMIS Dean Berg Speaks
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 U
problems of MIS, which are clearly there, 
and which will continue for awhile, I have 
met nothing but good will and coopera
tion. Thats true not only of people in MIS, 
but also of people in all the other colleges 
as well as Warner Hall, and a wide variety 
of groups around the University. In order 
for me to be effective for the University 
and for the College, there has to be a cer
tain amount of goodwill felt towards what 
Im trying to do. Ive seen nothing but that 
so far, Im pleased; to me thats very im
portant.
k88n7 von8 to, 79en8m9 bmae9
I want the students to know who I am 
and to have some mechanism to communi
cate with me in a direct fashion. I havent 
really hit on the right mechanism, but I 
need to know the students perceptions, 
both undergraduate and graduate, as to 
where they think the problems and 
strengths lie...And that really goes for 
faculty and staff, too.
d8,i bm*b987 r,b9brb7v
I dont object to criticism or evaluation.
I think thats healthy and needed, but
v8vemev
Morie J. Bryson 
Manli 21, 1956-October 25, 1977
inaiarpVPhysics
people have to assume, and I hope that as
sumption is right, that what Im doing are 
actions taken for the betterment of the 
University and for the College...Ill make 
mistakes and 111 do things out of ignor
ance, but any criticism made should not be 
made without the goodwill. The criticism 
should be constructive, should be made, 
and should be made to me.
Vrb8mr8 bm98i,1987 g8uu
Its kind of a mixed bag here. My im
pression is that MIS is fairly well integrated 
with the college of technology (CIT), but 
not well integrated with any of the other 
colleges. Ive spoken a little bit with Deans 
Midani and Crecine about this point. We 
havent come to grips on it, but its some
thing we will look toward. Theres alot of 
exciting things going on in science that will 
someday be reflected in the arts.
In many ways I think scientists are artis
tically creative people. Not artistic in the 
sense of painting and sculpture, but artistic 
in a thought creative sense. So I do think 
there is a certain interconnection to other 
creative endeavors that go in the university.
w1,9 s ot 9Cb7 bm98,*b8g gbuu 1aa81, m8.9 g88lM
TC8m F8o,ib1 E588tt8 g17 o,bibm1uu 
b77e8n bm yBQLI b9 g17 m19bom1uu 1rru1bv8n 
to, 9C8 8.r8uu8mr8 ot b97 rom98m97 1mn 
a,oner9bomM kog 1*1H-98 bm 9go v1i
mbtbr8m9 m8g 8nb9bom7I ruo9C 1mn a1a8,
-1rlI -o9C 8nb9bom7 rom91bm 9C8 o,bibm1u 98.9 
g,b998m - 9C8 1,9b79 C8,78ut 1mn yfL rouo, 
buue79,19bom7I bmruenbmi a1bm9bmi7 om 8.
Cb-b9bom bm v1ho, ve78ev7 1mn go,l7 
m8*8, -8to,8 788m - 9C8 ae-ubrMAC8 Pblbmi 
w,877 R2 VAScE dEE? O (ULffM 2 
w8miebm -ool ) (yzMBL
CMU BOOKSTORE
BACK 
IN STOCK
AH: NEpw0:A: TE' EY 
pNH:02kF:0EM yfzfM uue7M Us Yeuu 
Nouo, wu1987M po79 v1imbtbr8m9I rov
a,8C8m7b*8 *ouM 8*8, ae-ub7C8n om 
pbrC8u1mi8uo 1mn Cb7 go,lM 01*b7C 1,9b79br 
,8a,oner9bom7 1mn 1e9Co,b919b*8 98.9 *b*bnu 
-,bmi 9o ubt8 9C8 teuu 7roa8 ot 9C8 1,9b7957 
1rCb8*8v8m97M mnM 9C8 Cb79o,br 1mn 1,9b79br 
a8,7om1ub9 ot pbrC8u1mi8uoI 7reua9e,8I 
a1bm9bmiI 1,rCb98r9e,8I n,1gbmi7I 
aCbuo7oaCI g,b9bmiI vo,8M Tb9C teuu *b7e1u 
1mn g,b998m nb7re77bom ot 1H Cb7 go,l7 bmnM 
9C8 wb89I c1*bnI po787I 9C8 N8bubmi ot 9C8 
Vb79bm8 NC1a8uI 9C8 nov8 ot V9M w898,57I 
vo,8M Lff w1i87M yy . y3M E,biM we-M 19 
(LfMff Emu ^sBMBL
F'2W5V 2k2AEpW| AC8 Nu177br Yeuu 
Nouo, Nouu8r9o,57 :nb9bomM Qf c891bu8n 
uue7M 1mn cb1i,1v7I bmnM yQs Nouo, wu1987M 
ACb7 u1mnv1,l RBf? 8nb9bom ot om8 ot 9C8 
i,819879 ,8t8,8mr8 go,l7 ot 1uu 9bv8 b7 1 
ve79 to, aC7brb1m7I 79en8m97I 1,9b797I 1mn 
9C8 v8nbr1uu re,boe7M AC8 ysz a1i8 98.9 b7 
988vbmi gb9C t17rbm19bmi bmto,v19bomM k8g 
bm9,oMI e1ub9 a,bm9bmiI C1mn7ov8 -bmnbmiI 
1mn 1 t1m9179br uog a,br8M
279oemnbmi P1ue8 Emu (QMB
AH: dEE EY AH: Ek: AHESV2kc 
kFHAV 2kc 2 kFHAM A,1m7u198n 1mn 
2mmo9198n - 'brC1,n YM de,9omM ACb7 b7 9C8 
t1ve7 em8.ae,i198n 8nb9bom ot de,9om57 
2,1-b1m kbiC97I o,bibm1uu a,b*198u a1bm
98n - 9C8 de,9om Nue-I gCbrC b7 ,8i1,n8n 
17 9C8 omu rovau898 1e9Co,b919b*8 hmn 
719b7t1r9o, 8nb9bomM yL v1imbtbr8m9 
*ouev87I 3fff a1i87M L . B?zM H1mn
7ov8u -oemn gb9C ,brC 7bveu198n ioun 
1mn 7bu*8, 791vabmiM
E,biM w,b*198u w,bm98n 19 (yysMff 
k8gI Novau898 yL PouM V89 Emu (LBMBL
AH: NEpw0:A: TE'V EY T002p 
VH2:Vw:2':M s buue7M 0e.e,boe7u 
-oemn rovau898 8nb9bom rom91bmbmi 8*8, 
go,nI 9C19 VC1l87a81,8 g,o98/1uu UQ 
9,1i8nb87I rov8nb87 1mn Cb79o,b87I aue7 9C8 
7omm897 89rM ysz a1i87 -oemo bm 7eva
9eoe7 7bv b,91981 u819C8, 1mn 791va8n bm 
7bveu198n iounM E,biM s Poz V89M we-M 19 
$20.00.
c8ue.8 b *ouM :r0 Emu (zMBL
T'A: WES' ETk dEEj :mn9o77
ao77b-bub9b87 1,b78 gb9m 9C878 C1mn7ov8 
*ouev87 ot yBs CbiC e1ub9 -u1ml a1i87M 
Woe 1,8 9C8 1e9Co, gC89C8, oe tbK 9C8v 
gb9C 1 nb1,I mo*8uI ao89,I ,8rba87I 7l89
rC87I hol87I aCo9o7I noonu87 o, gC198*8,M 
2mn 9C8 v1l8 78m719bom1u ibt97 to, 
8*8,om8? doemn 1mn 791va8n bm 7bveu198n 
u819C8, 1mn ioun gb9C v1,-b8b8n 8mn 
a1a8,7M 3 . M (yMBLM
CMU BOOKSTORE

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Blood is thicker 
than responsibility
On October 19, Student Senate allocated $300 to be used 
as prize money in the coming Blood Drive, to be held on 
the CMU campus November 15 and 16. Senate further 
specified that $150 would go to the dorm area with the 
greatest percentage of blood donors, and $150 would go to 
the fraternity or sorority with the greatest percentage of 
blood donors.
On October 26, a senator from M/S moved that the pre
vious week's motion be rescinded, as it made no provision 
for commuters and students living off-campus who might 
also wish to donate blood and be considered for the prize. 
But the motion failed.
As it stands now, only dorm areas and fraternities and 
sororities are eligible to win the $150 prize.
This is a grossly irresponsible act on the part of Student 
Senate. To ignore a large section of the population, whom 
they have promised to serve, shows a deep disregard for 
their constituents. Evidently, some members of Senate, in
cluding both fraternity members and dorm residents, be
came overwhelmed with greed and forgot that their first 
obligation was to the rest of the students and not to them
selves.
Lest some people think that this is no big deal, that com
muters comprise such a small percentage of the entire stu
dent body anyway, remember this: the term 'commuter 
is used loosely and refers not only to the people living at 
home with their parents, but also to a great many soph
omores, juniors, and seniors who live in Oakland, Shadyside, 
Squirrel Hill, and other nearby places.
It was especially disturbing to learn of the Student Gov
ernment Presidents role in the two-week issue. In the origi
nal vote on the motion, on October 19, John Lubon ab
stained. Next week, when the question to rescind the mo
tion came to a vote, Lubon voted not to rescind the motion. 
According to one senator, Lubon cast the deciding vote in 
the 8-5 tally (in favor of keeping the October 19 motion). 
A 213 majority was needed to rescind the motion, and the 
senator believes that Lubon looked around to see how the 
vote was turning out and then cast his own vote. A 9-4 
vote would have been enough to reverse the motion.
We have here a dear case of conflicting interests. Lubon 
himself is a member of a fraternity, and perhaps he too was 
overwhelmed by the thought of what $150 would do for 
his House. So overwhelmed, in fact, that he was unable to 
vote clearheadedly and objectively.
Not only the President is to blame, of course; four other 
senators voted not to rescind the motion. But Student 
Senate, an organization that is supposed to represent all 
CMU students, is no place for such partisan politics. It 
should not become a proving ground for fraternities, soror
ities, or dorm residents; off-campus students must be fully 
represented too. Senates lack of fair play in this issue is 
deplorable.
Fortunately, all is not lost. A petition is circulating 
on campus that, if signed by 250 students, will reverse the 
present ruling. Senate members in favor of resdnding the 
motion hope to be able to present enough signatures to do 
so at tomorrows meeting. We urge all students, commuters 
or on-campus dwellers, Greeks or Independents, to sign the 
petition. One can be found at the Skibo Information Desk.
In todays 'Senate murmurs  column, the writer suggests 
that Senates postponing and tabling motions indicates 
an increased sense of responsibility. In view of the motion 
that was just passed, we have to disagree. Perhaps Senates 
rash of postponing and tabling motions shows an insecurity 
to act, understandable in the light of the motion that was 
just passed, re-examined, and retained nonetheless.
If this is how 21 prestigious people allocate only $300, 
we shudder to think what irresponsible, selfish ways they 
will find to allocate the rest of the $110,000+ that they 
control.
* , vM ii itd :; Sherry Siegel
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
The TARTAN extends an invitation to all CMU administrators, faculty, and 
students to share their views with the rest of the campus on these editorial 
pages. Submissions of 500 to 2,000 words will be considered for publishing 
as a guest editorial. If you have any questions, please call the TARTAN 
at 578-2111, -2112, or -2113.
S.A.R.C.
Editor:
I would like to take this op
portunity to make clear to Mr. 
Seidman (My Favorite Course '. 
Sidewalks), the exact relation
ship between the Carnegie-Mellon 
University Alumni Office and the 
Student Alumni Relations Coun
cil (S.A.R.C.).
Last year, this newspaper print
ed an editorial without, in my 
opinion, investigating the existing 
facts concerning the new organi
zation. S.A.R.C. is sponsored by 
the Alumni Association, as it 
should be due to the nature of 
its dealings, which is making in
roads between 'working CMU 
alumni and students seeking ad
vice from these professionals rel
ative to their career. S.A.R.C. is 
in no way discriminatory in its 
membership, consequently I see 
no reason to accept Mr. Seidmans 
derogatory reference. The entire 
campus is invited to join, and/or 
use S.A.R.C.s resourses.
In the Sidewalks article, Mr. 
Seidman suggested that S.A.R.C.s 
committees had something to do 
with the new sod which had been 
placed along various sidewalks 
prior to Homecoming Weekend. 
Our members are not consulted 
on plans for Alumni Homecoming, 
but do take an interest in making 
it an enjoyable weekend for the 
campus community.
Clare Nadorlik 
S.A.R.C. Publicity
Traumatic Experience 
Endured
Editor:
As I write this letter my room
mate and I are in a state of utter 
chaos and despair. We are resi
dents of Morewood Gardens, Btower, and it looks as if we may 
stay that way permanently. For
tunately, neither my roommate 
nor I is the hysterical, screaming 
type or all of B-tower would have 
been awake at 8:30 this morning 
when we discovered we could not 
get out of our room.
After much beating, banging, 
talking, and coaxing, as well as 
several attempts of help from a 
neighbor, we decided we needed 
help from Maintenance to open 
the door. Fortunately, we have a
TARTAN
Pouev8 Q ko*8v-8, yI yBQQ kev-8, B
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Editor 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
VC8,, Vb8i8u 
d,8mn1 '88n 
:uu8m Vbu*8,v1m 
V1eu N1,ubm8, 
N178 NCbun7 
J8tt,8 G17uog 
Aov dbmmb8 
PM'MPM '1v1m1m
277b791m9 9o 9C8 k8g7 :nb9o,| 
wCo9oi,1aC 791tt|
Linda Deak
Brian Batchelder, Mike Bergman, Skip Brazelton, John Fong, Greg 
Lobowitz, George Lecomte, Ken Ream, Steve Salagaller, Mark Segal
TH UWIT6D STATES OF AOlCR* CA
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112, Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.(. t  )'\ *  i.i Nov e Nm ( . ti .
D 200 'FHAV ':V:'P:c I i

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1977-TARTAN-page 7
more Letters
phone in our room or we would 
have had to yell out the window 
until someone down there paid at
tention to us. I had to call CMUs 
old phone number since no one 
has bothered to give us the new 
Centrex numbers yet. Finally, I 
got the number of the Housing 
Office.
Next, I called the Housing Of
fice, told them my name and 
room number, and said that we 
could not get out of our room. 
The woman on the other end of 
the phone laughed and asked if 
we were locked in or out. I said 
in, and she laughed harder. Per
sonally, I failed to see the humor 
in the situation. Then she asked 
my room number again and said 
someone would be up.
We are considering camping 
out in the Housing Office when 
and if we get out. Were also try
ing to figure out what were going 
to eat and drink for the day. We 
came up with an apple, some stale 
cheese crackers, McDpnaldland 
cookies, and grape concentrate 
without water.
This upsetting and inconveni
ent experience could have been avoided had our request Jfor a new 
door, made 9/15, been taken care 
of sooner. Our door is cracked 
and was broken. It is now held 
together by two pieces of wood 
nailed to the top and bottom and 
bends when it is opened or closed.
I have been to Maintenance no 
less i jlje. pajt
week a^haye^qtt^^gatisfofc, , 
tion. I was told last Tuesday 
(10/4) that the door would be 
checked out, that it had been or
dered on September 15 and 
should be in Friday morning 
(10/7). I was told the door was in 
but theyd have to find a carpen
ter to hang it.
We were told this morning that 
the door had been here but it was 
stolen on Sunday. Someone is 
wandering around campus car
rying our door while we are sit
ting in our room considering tying 
sheets together and climbing out 
the window. Had the door been 
hung when it came in, we would 
not now be wondering about our 
future existence. ... I wonder if 
theyll send the firemen to the 
window or break down the door.
What an interesting story to write 
home to Mother about. Shell 
be glad Im having such a variety 
of experiences at college.
We were told to lock up our 
valuables because in changing the 
door they may have to leave the 
room open without a door. But 
if we can't lock our door, where 
are we supposed to put our valu
ables? I dont think my television 
set will fit in my drawer.
Now they say that theyve or
dered another door, and it should 
be in today. Theyll try to get it 
hung either today or tomorrow. 
I dont understand why the first 
door took two and a half weeks 
to get, and the second is going to 
take two days. We were told 
Maintenance requests were taken 
care of in order of priority. May
be my priorities are wrong but I 
happen to think getting out of my 
room is among the Top Ten on 
the priorities list.
Maybe well be rescued by a 
knight in shining armor. Theres 
always hope. Cross your fingers 
for us and hopefully hell get us 
out of here in time to go home for 
Christmas.
Damsels in Distress
Spitball Deflection 
Editor:
As a Philadelphian, 1 cannot 
{dsslbly''Veiad' the1' letter appear
ing irithe 1*0/18 issue of the TAR
TAN without taking a swing at 
rebuttal. The letter brought out, 
by means of criticizing Ben 
Harrys World Series Prediction, 
some bold-faced errors of 
logical thinking on the part of 
the writer.
Mr. Firm in his letter claims 
that the Phillies are not even the 
best team in the National League 
East... He substantiates (?) this 
argument by claiming that key 
injuries and a miracle from above stopped the Pirates from 
netting the Dodgers in the 
play-offs. Come now. All teams 
must be conscious of injuries. 
If a team can be so hampered by 
injuries, as the writer claims, then 
a weakness must exist here. Good
teams cope with this problem, 
and have acceptable replacements 
for injured players. Do you be
lieve in miracles? I dont, at 
least not in regard to a game of 
skill such as baseball. If base
ball is so reliant on divine par
tiality for its outcome, then why 
is the game even played? Such a 
statement shows the writers inse
curity and sub-conscious recogni
tion of the fact that his argument 
is total assininity and must be 
supported with outlandish state
ments.
The outlandish statements the
ory also explains why Mr. Firm 
cites the history of the Phillies in 
the Series. What effect does his
tory have on the outcome of a 
baseball game? None, I should 
hope, or the game would be play
ed with The Encyclopedia of the 
Social Sciences as bases.
I support Ben Harry for his 
prediction on the series. The 
Philadelphia Phillies had, and still 
have, a lot going for them. Na
tional League President Finleys 
bullheaded determination to fin
ish that final game for the penn
ant in the pouring rain did not 
determine which was the best 
team, but rather which could 
get the wettest. This was unfor
tunate since the outcome of the 
Series may have washed away in 
that downpour.
The letter of 10/18 appears 
to be a poorly executed spitball 
hurled by a frustrated Pittsburgh
er at the Phillies.
WAIT'TIL NEXT YEAR!!!!! 
Fill in the Name
Editor:
The diploma given by CarnegieMellon University is unimpressive. 
Having seen a recent graduates 
diploma, I would say it has the ap
pearance of a form letter, not a 
college degree. The CMU diploma 
needs a face lift. A change as sim
ple as printing it with Old English 
type face would be a vast im
provement. Possibly a class pro
ject in Caligraphy could be insti
tuted to improve this form 
letter. A lot of effort goes into 
earning a degree; a little more 
effort should be put into the de
gree itself.
Martin F. Rooney 
Civil Engineering
Historical Facts
Editor:
In the heated debate over the 
rights of small nations, these con
siderations may be relevant:
1) Jordan and Israel are the two 
successor states to the British 
mandate territory of Palestine. 
Until the suppression of efforts 
to make Jordan a Palestinian state 
in Black September of 1970, Pal
estinian national efforts were di
rected largely at Jordinian and not 
Israeli territory.
2) More Palestinians live outside 
the West Bank and Gaza than re
side within. The West Bank and 
Gaza should therefore not be con
sidered either the natural or his
torical locus of an Arab Palestine 
and it is legitimate to raise the 
question of whether a state estab
lished in that territory could be 
content within its boundaries and 
not irredentist with respect to 
neighboring territory.
3) Neighboring Arab states did 
not permit the creation of a new 
Arab Palestinian entity in 1948. 
From 1948-1967, Hussein occu
pied the West Bank but did not 
permit it to become an inde
pendent state.
4) The Palestinian National Cov
enant of 1974 refuses to recog
nize the right of Israelis who ar
rived since the Zionist inva
sion to remain on the land and 
denies to Israel a national identi
ty. Nothing was done to alter the 
Covenant at the meeting in Cairo 
this spring. Either the PLO na
tional command is too weak to 
effect a change in position on the 
critical right of Israel to survive 
as a nation, or it has not changed 
its position. What kind of co
existence is possible between 
Israel and the PLO under either 
set of conditions?
Daniel P. Resnick 
Professor of History
A Patriot (?) Speaks
Editor:
This past Saturday at our foot
ball game versus Allegheny Col
lege, I had a very troubling ex
perience. While walking into the 
game during the National An
them, 1 saw a policeman standing
at attention saluting the flag. 
Naturally, I stood with him and 
also saluted. To my astonish
ment, not only were we the only 
people saluting, but we were ac
tually being laughed at by other 
students.
The reasons for this country 
being a world power for so long 
are its strong democratic princi
ples, and its nationalism. Do 
these radical-liberal students actu
ally feel that this country will 
stand if its citizens take such a 
nonchalant attitude about it? 
And by not taking an active role 
in this problem, the administra
tion is just as much to blame! In 
fact, they are guilty of breeding 
Communism in their students!
An example of this is Vasily 
Vasilyevich Kuznetsov, a former 
CMU student who is now the Vice 
President of the Soviet Union. 
With the attitude of the adminis
tration as it is now, he will pro
bably be only the first of many 
CMU students who will follow 
this path.
To correct this situation, the 
administration should provide an 
American Flag' for each dorm 
room and classroom, and require 
that students pledge their allegience every day. I would also 
like to recommend that a cen
tral public address system be in
stalled, and that songs such as 
My country tis of thee, God 
Bless America, and The Star 
Spangled Banner be played con
tinuously throughout the day. Be 
it also recommended that courses 
promoting nationalism be requir
ed. Courses such as: Political
Science 101..........Bring back Joe
McCarthy Nuclear Engineering
103...............Lets build a better
bomb! Civil Engineering
How to eliminate a continent, 
should be included in the next ad
dendum. The administration
should also take an active role in 
registering students into the Re
publican Party.
Instilling nationalism in stu
dents should be one of the basic 
goals of any institution, remem
ber : God, guns, and guts made 
America free, lets fight to keep 
all three.
S.J.S.
All letters to the Editor must be 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The TARTAN does 
not print anonymous letters.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
There will be a meeting for.ALL type
setters on November 2, 1977 at 8 PM 
in the TARTAN office. All typesetters 
are expected to attend.
PREMEDICAL STUDENTS: The first
lecture in the current MED-X Lecture 
Series at Shadyside Hospital will be pre
sented by Douglas Spurlock, Administrator 
and chief Operating Officer. The title is 
"Dynamics of Hospital Administration in 
the Urban Teaching Facility." It is sched
uled for Tuesday, November 1, from 7:00 
to 8:30 PM in the Seventh Floor, Main To
wer Classroom of Shadyside Hospital. En
tire campus community is invited. For a 
general audience.
Forbes St. Gallery presents the work of
Michael Bokulich (paintings), Mark Pozzi 
(drawings), and Lucy Russo (sculpture) 
in a show opening Tuesday night, Nov. 1. 
The opening will be from 7-9:30 PM. All 
are invited.
Confidential Services including pregnancy
and V.D. testing, all methods of contracep
tion and counseling are available through
out Western Pennsylvania without restric
tion on age or ability to pay. For referral 
to a clinic near you, call the Family Plan
ning Council of Western Pennsylvania 
toll free at (800)-242-2532.
Shyness Clinic-A group designed to help
you begin to understand and come out of 
your shyness. Dr. Pam Freeman of the 
Counseling Center will first talk to you about the nature of the group and how it 
fits your needs. Please call her at Ext. 
2922 or stop in at the Counseling Center, 
135 Baker Hall, if you are interested. 
Group size in limited.
Anyone interested in learning to typeset
for the TARTAN is asked to come to a 
meeting on November 2, 1977 at 7:30 PM 
in the TARTAN office, or call 6870126.
Lunch with an international student?
Many international students at the Trans
lation Center are interested in meeting with 
American students to share their different 
ideas and cultures. If you are interested 
in meeting people from all over the 
world, contact Anne McKee at the Trans
lation Center, 578-0278.
Campus Program Planning invites the cam
pus community to an open forum with 
the Pittsburgh Mayoral Candidates12 
noon, Friday November 4, in the Wherret 
Room, Skibo.
To be sure you're getting your minimum
daily requirements, check the nutrition 
board Located at the entrance to the 
Kiltie Cafe, meal suggestions are posted 
daily.
PREMEDICAL STUDENTS: All students
who plan to take the New MCAT in 1978 
or later should purchase the second edition 
of the New MCAT Student Manual. This 
should be available in the CMU Book
store by early December. And "illustra
tive test" of 203 items (approximately 
two-thirds the length of a normal test) 
will be published as a supplement to the 
manual. Schools of Medicine, Osteopathic 
Medicine and Podiatric Medicine require 
the New MCAT as an entrance require
ment.
Let's get together, faculty, grad students
and staff, separated or divorced. An in
formal gathering on Nov. I, 8 PM at 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. at Oratory. For in
formation call Nancy at 381-3181.
Student wanted to do light housecleaning a
few hours a week. Hours are flexible. 
Free living quarters in exchange for housecleaning and babysitting Native french

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS8XLASSIFIEDADS________
i:v
general
babysitter desired for bilingual 5 year old 
boy. Driver desired to transport a man to 
work in mornings and wife to hospital 
daily 9:15-12 noon. Lunch steam table 
and pantry person wanted in local res
taurantfull and part time positions avail
able. Part time positions available over 
weekends in plastics factory near by. 
Shifts are: Friday night: 11:00 PM to
7:00 AM, Saturday: 7:00 AM to 3:00 PM 
3:00 to 11:00 AM, 11:00 PM to 7:00 AM 
Sunday: 7:00 AM to 3:00 PM. Security 
Guard needed at downtown department 
store. Hours: 5:30-2:00 AM, and 2:00
AM-10:00. Housecleaning on Fridays: 
9:00-3:30 PM. $20/day, Babysit and live 
in: Boom and Board as Payment. If in
terested in these jobs and more come to 
the Student Employment Office in Skibo 
room 58 during office hours 10:30-2:30 
Monday thru Friday 6-9 in the evenings, 
1-4 on Saturday. This is a service free 
to CMU students as service of Student 
Corporation.
Part of the University general safety and
security program for this academic year 
includes a student escort service during 
late night hours. At present, Security 
provides escort service upon request, 
according to officer availability. Unfor
tunately, the service is often delayed due 
to activities in progress which also require 
immediate attention. In an effort to 
increase the availability of escort services 
during peak hours of activity, Security and 
the Carnegie Tech Radio Club members 
will jointly attempt to broaden this ser
vice for students.
On a trial basis, the Carnegie Tech 
Radio Club will have approximately twelve 
student members available to provide es
cort services. This arrangement will begin 
November 4, 1977, and continue each 
Friday and Saturday night thereafter from 
the hours of 10:00 PM to 2:00 AM. Stu
dents requesting escort services are to call 
Security, Campus extension 2323, or 
direct line 578-2323. Security.will contin
ue to maintain its standard escort proce
dures. We are hopeful that the community 
will utilize personal escort services and 
enable us to substantiate the need for a 
permanent program.
Applied History and Social Science Sem
inar Series. "The Role of the Historian 
in Energy Saving and Assessment will be 
discussed by Dr. Eugene Frankel, Program 
Manager for Energy and Resource Assess
ment, Solar Division, Department of En
ergy, on November 3, at 4:00 PM, in Baker 
Hall.
What: InterVarsity Christian Fellowship's
weekly meeting. Dan Jones will speak on 
his experiences this summer in the Mission 
fields of France and Algeria. Where: 
Skibo, room 45. When: Wednesday, Nov. 
2, 7:00 PM Who: All invited to attend 
and fellowship!
Industrial discards collected by the Crea
tive Recycling Center have been fashioned 
into designs by three Pittsburgh artistcraftspersons. Through a grant from the 
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, Lori 
Hornell, Jean Brenholts, and Walter Yeschke will present their involvement with 
these "waste" materials in an exhibition, a
slide presentation, and a workshop.
The Exhibition begins Oct. 13 through 
Nov. 19 (Tuesdays through Saturdays) at 
the Creative Recycling Center, Bloomfield. 
No charge. All are welcome.
Slide Presentation, Thurs., Oct. 20, 
8:00 PM at the Arts & Crafts Center, 
Fifth & Shady Aves., Pittsburgh,, in the 
Commons Room.
WorkshopSat., Oct. 2210:00 AM to 
2:00 PM at the Creative Recycling Center. 
$5.00 charge. Pre-register. For more infor
mation, call 687-0900.
All the spaghetti you can eatSunday,
Nov. 6, from 4:30-7:00, the Society of 
Women Engineers will sponsor a spaghetti 
dinner, to be held at Pi Lamda Phi frater
nity. Tickets are $2.50 & may be pur
chased in advance from SWE members, 
or at the door.
BUGGY: There will be a meeting for the
Carnegie Mellon Involvement Association 
(CIA) on Wednesday November 2, at 
8:30 in Skibo room 11. All interested 
people are invited. New members are wel
comed. Elections will be held and plans 
for 1977-1978 discussed.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1 30 to 5-00.
The final report of the recently published
membership directory of the undergrad
uate and alumni members of Delta Tau 
Delta at Carnegie-Mellon indicates the 
program was quite successful.
The report shows that the alumni 
directory contributions exceeded the cost 
of the program. Members from various 
locations and graduation classes expressed 
their enthusiastic appreciation for their 
copy of the booklet. Additionally it was 
reported that 10 alumni, who had pre
viously been lost, now have been located.
Know any news? The TARTAN is inter
ested in suggestions for stories from any
one with a hot tip. Ideas can be left in 
the TARTAN mailbox at the Information 
Desk or tacked to our office door. Story 
suggestion may be anonymous.
Every year some 70,000,000,000 beer
and soda bottles and cans are thrown away 
in this country. In 1975, for example, the 
beverage industry used some 7 million tons 
of glass, 2 million tons of steel, and 500,- 
000 tons of aluminum to make beer and 
soda containers, most of which were used 
once and thrown away. A staggering 
waste.
Probably no other product is packaged 
more extravagantly and expensively than 
beer and soda. In fact, the cost of the 
bottle or can is two or three times the cost 
of the beverage itself. And yet, one-way 
containers are used by the consumer for 
just a few moments and thrown away. It 
just doesn't make any sense.
As a necessary response to the throw
away problem, a bottle bill, placing a 5% 
deposit on all beer and soda containers 
would encourage consumers to bring their 
bottles back for refilling or recycling. Ore
gon, Vermont and provinces in Canada 
already have bottle bills in effect and work
ing very well.
Interested in hearing more? Write to 
Pennsylvania Alliance for Returnables, P.O. 
Box 472, Harrisburgh, Pa. 17108.
BUGGY: There will be a meeting for the
Carnegie Mellon Involvement Association 
(CIA), on Wednesday November 2, at 
8:30 in Skibo room 11. All interested 
people are invited. New members are wel
comed. Elections will be held and plans 
for 1977-1978 discussed.
Women's rugby team now forming. No
experience needed. For information call 
661-5402.
ATTENTION S.W.E. MEMBERS-On
Thursday, November 3, at 7:00 PM in the. 
Wherrett Room, The Society of Women 
Engineers sponsors a discussion of career 
opportunities. A representative from General'Dynamics will talk about job oppor
tunities at his company. Members highly 
encouraged to attend.
CMU Law Club will meet on Monday,
November 7 at 7 PM in Room 11 of 
Skibo. Anyone with an interest in law is 
invited.
Attention All baseball playersThere will
be the first organizational meeting of 1977 
of the CMU Baseball Organization on No
vember 3, 1977 at 9:30 PM in Room 11 of 
Skibo. Anyone interested in playing base
ball this spring should attend. If unable 
to attend, leave name, campus address, 
class, and major at Skibo Information Desk 
under the address, 1071 Morewood Avenue 
(ZBT)._________________
scholarshipsawardsprizes
A $1000 grand prize will be awarded in the
Poetry Competition sponsored by the 
World of Poetry, a monthly newsletter for 
poets. Poems of all styles and on any sub
ject are eligible to compete for the grand 
prize or for 49 other cash or merchandise 
awards.
Rules*and official entry forms are avail
able by writing to World of Poetry, 2431 
Stockton Blvd., Dept. A, Sacramento. 
California 95817.
classified
All interested in forming a CMU MAGIC
CLUB please contact Timothy Wenk 
at 682-9502.
Congradulations, John Burge, on winning
the Warner Hall cartoon competition. 
We love you. The Translation Center.
"On October 22, 1977, a Mech. E. project
was accidentally removed from Science 
Hall by the Computation Center Staff and 
placed on the first floor loading dock next 
to the dumpster. It is approximately 100 
cm. tall and 50 cm. square on end. The 
outer casing is clear plexiglass, and the 
inner contents are complex electro-mech
anical sub-assemblies. I have the control 
unit for the project, so the remainder could 
not be of much practical use to anyone 
else. ~ r1
The return of this unit, in any condi
tion, will be appreciated beyond measure. 
No questions asked. REWARD! Contact: 
John Reid, Rm. 211 Boss Hall, 682-9076"
Typing-own typewriter, in my home
(Shadyside), reasonable, efficient, accurate. 
After 6 PM. 665-9531
Good looking young man, 28, Haverford
graduate, good sense of humor, consid
erate, bright and recently relocated to 
Pittsburgh, interested in meeting a very 
attractive, sweet, intelligent, vivacious 
young lady 21 to 28. Send photograph, 
name, address, phone number and a 
brief self-descriptive note to Mark, P.O. 
Box 1804, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. All 
sincere replies answered.
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass 
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458.
One bedroom apartment, Edgewood-Wilkinsburg area. Close to 61 bus. $150/ 
month, includes heat. Call Mary 624-2161 
or 242-4708 evenings.
Very sincere postdoctoral student, Jewish, 
age 28, recently moved to Pittsburgh, 
would like to meet a sincere, well-educa
ted, well-adjusted young woman with 
high moral values. Object: friendship and 
companionship, possibly leading to mar
riage. Depth of personality and warmth of 
character more important than physical 
appearance. Sincere replies only, please. 
If you're suspicious or shy, have a friend 
reply on your behalf. Please write to P.O. 
Box 9068, Bloomfield Station, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15224.
Earn $20.00 a week for 4 or 5 hours work.
Clean my house every week. Call Ext.2790
ISRAEL and JEWISH IDENTITY
ko*8v-8, y 4 yB
At: Bethany College, West Virginia 
Depart: From B'nai B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue
Charge: $15.00
For more information, Call B'nai B'rith Hillel, 621-8875
Bring in or Mail to: B'nai B 'rith Hillel
315 S. Beflefield Avenue, Pgh., Pa. 15213
City
Name ________
Address _____
School ___________________________
Please send me more information 
Enclosed is my $15.00____________
State
Campus Phone
Zipcode
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

November 1,1977TARTANpag 9
Students find Webster Hall inconvenient
by Vivian Hunter
Is it a home away from home, or home 
a long way from home base? Many stu
dents housed in the Hotel Webster Hall, 
located fifteen minutes walking distance 
from the CMU campus on Forbes Avenue 
in Oakland, ask themselves that question 
daily.
CMU leased rooms in the Hotel Webster 
Hall for this fall to help relieve the over
crowded conditions in the on-campus 
dormitories. Room rates in Webster Hall 
/all into the prime (most expensive)
category as each room features carpeting, 
private bath, and weekly maid and linen 
service. However, students have to walk 
fifteen minutes to get to their classes on 
campus, and for those on food contract, 
their meals.
Tommy Dynia feels the fifteen minute 
walk to CMU is like commuting without 
a car.
Luke David Titus agrees, adding that it 
is hard to get friends to come and visit. 
However, Luke seems to be taking the 
relaxed atmosphere in his stride. The
COLLEGE JUNIORSCOLLEGE SENIORS
NUCLEAR PROPULSION
AC8 u81nbmi oa8,19o, ot keru81, '81r9o,7 b7 re,,8m9u 788lbmi rouu8i8 hembo,7 
1mn 78mbo,7 9o 78,*8 17 keru81, w,oaeu7bom ottbr8,7 -o9C om keru81, Ve,t1r8 *8778u7 
1mn keru81, Ve-v1,bm87 eaom i,1ne19bomM m98,8798n r1mnbn1987 7Coeun -8 bm ae,7eb9 
ot 1 d1rr1u1e,8198 c8i,88 gb9C 1m 8mibm88,bmiI ae,8 7rb8mr8I o, v19C v1ho, 1mn 
C1*8 n8vom79,198n 1-bub9 bm v19C 1mn aC7br7 roe,787M 2 vbmbvev ot om8 81, ot 
rouu8i8 aC7br7 1mn v19C 9C,oeiC bm98i,1u r1ureue7 gb9C 1 6d 1*8,1i8 o, -8998, bm 
98rCmbr1u roe,787 b7 ,8eb,8nM Verr877teu r1mnbn1987 gbuu -8)a1bn ea 9o (LIfff ne,bmi 
9C8b, 78mbo, 81, ot rouu8i8 1mn eaom i,1ne19bom 1mn rovvb77bombmi ,8r8b*8 1 81, 
ot i,1ne198 u8*8u keru81, 9,1bmbmi 1mn eaom rovau89bom ot 9Cb7 9,1bmbmi oe gbuu 
,8r8b*8 1 r17C -ome7 ot (UIfffM keru81, Ettbr8,7 gbuu -8 rC1uu8mi8n - 9C8 8m9b,8 
7a8r9,ev ot v1m1i8v8m9 1mn 8mibm88,bmi ,87aom7b-bub9 17 temr9bombmi keru81, 
:mibm88,7M V8u8r9 1aaubr1m97 bm98,8798n bm 981rCbmi v1 -8 8ubib-u8 to, toe, 81, bm
79,er9o, ao7b9bom7 19 9C8 keru81, w,oaeu7bom VrCoou bm E,u1mnoI Yuo,bn1M Ve-h8r97 
91eiC9 v1 bmruen8 v19C8v19br7I aC7br7I 8u8r9,br1u 8mibm88,bmiI C819 9,1m7t8, 1mn 
tuebn tuog v198,b1u7I rC8vb79,I ,81nbo)uoibr1u rom9,ou7 1mn ,81r9o, au1m9 
8mibm88,bmiM 2 rovau898 -8m8tb97 a1rl1i8I a8,7om1u i,og9C 1mn n8*8uoav8m9 1mn 1 
791,9bmi 71u1, 17 CbiC 17 (yLIfff bmruenbmi -ome7 to, 9C8 tb,79 81,M V1u1, 1t98, toe, 
81,7 gbuu 1aa,o1rC (sfIfffM
t oe C1*8 1m bm98,879 bm 8.auo,bmi 1m ot 9C8 1-o*8 a,oi,1v7I au8178 r1uu o, 
g,b98|
LT. JACK REEVES
Nuclear Programs Officer
Placement Office 
Sign Up for Interviews 
3 & 4 November 77
quietness here encourages good studying 
habits, so that I can get my work done. I 
think we can agree that no student in 
Morewood can say the same, he stated.
Winston Thomas likes the privacy of 
living off-campus, but finds that having to 
eat meals at on-campus cafeterias is a 
hassle.
Being here relieves you from the hustle 
and bustle of campus life, says Tony 
Watson. Tony likes living at Webster Hall 
because of the maid service and the quiet 
atmosphere.
Luke likes the maid service too, com
menting, I appreciate not having to do 
much tidying up, even if the linen and
maid service is once a week.
But Tommy claims, Although its 
nice to have someone change your sheets, 
I can really do that myself. And $.50 for 
the washer, and $.35 for the dryer, is 
downright robbery.
Apparently several students share 
Tommys dissatisfaction with life at Webster Hall. Two sophomore transfer students 
from Chatham College housed in Webster 
Hall, have spent the last month'and a half 
trying to get on-campus housing.
As one of the girls put it, The rooms 
are small and not that great, and besides, 
what happens in winter when weve got to 
walk all that way to eat and have classes. 
I really wish I was in Morewood.
NEWS STAFF
Meetings will 
be held every 
Wednesday, 7:30 PM 
Room 50, Skibo
You Are Invited To An
OPEN FORUM
M
WITH
PITTSBURGH'S 
MAYORAL CANDIDATES
1 2 Noon  Friday, November 4th 
Wherrett Room
Members of the campus community can 
submit questions they may have to the 
student activities office before November 4th 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANNovember 1, 1977
Groups protest violence against women
rom9bme8n t,ov c118 3
Berkowitz as examples.
The march was effective. For participants, 
it was worthwhile since information was 
exchanged and excitement roused. Cer
tainly, the sight of 200 women walking the 
march route symbolized that, alone, each 
woman would be taking a grave risk if she 
appeared on the streets at night. It seems 
that further action will be taken on this 
issue.
* * *
The TARTAN learned Saturday after
noon that Sheriff of Allegheny County 
Eugene Coons declaration of a state ot 
emergenoy for the tri-county area, due to 
the recent rash of sex-related murders and 
disappearances, has been received with 
scorn by the three feminist groups.
According to Linda Loar, member of 
PAAR, the three groups feel that Coons 
declaration is insulting to the issue of 
violence against women. By concentrating
on this dramatic aspect only, Loar ex
plained, Coon is ignoring the routine acts 
of violence that women must deal with 
every day.
The groups are also worried that Coons 
declaration might be just a grab for public
ity; that the capture of someone, be he the 
real murderer or not, might be staged in an 
effort to calm down the public.
At 10 AM this morning, the three 
groups held a press conference at Univers
ity and City Ministries in Oakland, at 
which they intended to offer suggestions 
for long-range solutions to curb violence 
against women. They would suggest, Loar 
said Saturday, encouraging community 
organizations for self-protection, installa
tion of alarms and safety guards by individ
uals in private homes, free self-defense 
training for women, and, since so many 
women are now buying guns, free training 
in the use of firearms.
FOUO will be experimenting 
For the November 22 issue
there will be:
NO 
THEME
So, well take anything.
Send us your stuff, old or new. Leave stories at the Skibo Info, desk 
by Monday, November 14th.
ChemicalEngineering
Chemistry
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, 
one of the fastest growing specialty chemi
cals companies and a recognized leader in 
its field, has unique opportunities offering ex
ceptional career potential for Spring graduates 
majoring in the above.
Please visit our Representative 
On November 10
If unable to attend please send your resume to 
Richard Ranieri, Coordinator, Employment/Trainingniuriciru r
Nov
/ STARCISTARCH AND CHEMICAL CORPORATION
10 Finderne Avenue 
Bridgewater, New Jersey 08807
An [ qu.ll <)(>i>i>/(unify I mployl'f M/f
We'll 
Typeset 
Your Resum
for $ 750*
If you wish to have your resume typeset, please place a copy 
of it in the TARTAN mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Mark it ATT: AMY BOYLE. In 34 days you may pick it 
up from the Business Manager at the Executive Office.
'Prices may vary with exceptionally long or short resumes. 
This price is based on the average resume length.
TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

November 1,1977TARTANpage 11
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
C
8uu57 2mi8u7 bmruen8 'o8uu8I bm79,er9o,I c1,,8u d,emoI P1*1 deb98ml1m9I Nu1enb1 Nu1I 
 :nnI p1,7C1 Y1b,-,o9C8,I NC8,u J1m8I 1,bm 01mi8I Y,9C '8rl78b9I 1mn 0b71 V1,e-bmM
Learning by doing
Students plan
by Marsha Fairbrother
When I signed up for this design course 
I had little idea of what was in store for 
me. As one of nine junior and senior 
design students, I received a handsome 
dividenda chance to help in the restora
tion of the Braddock Carnegie Library.
Braddock is located 10 miles from Pgh. 
on the Monongahela River. This mill town 
grew rapidly with the lusty young steel in
dustry in the early 1900s and became pop
ulous and prosperous. The recently formed 
Braddocks Field Historical Society decid
ed it was time to pause and pay tribute to 
the communitys historic past.
July 9, 1755 was the most obvious date 
to remember. On that day, Maj. Gen. Ed
ward Braddock fought and lost the battle 
of the Monongahela. It was this defeat of 
the English in the French-Indian War that 
eventually led to the Revolutionary War.
mmm
WQOC  -
MW
It s tough to breathe when you have cystic fibrosis. But with your help, Marnie Smith 
Geffel is doing well through therapy at the CYSTIC FIBROSIS CLINIC.
Reach out and touch somebody the United Wav ^
restoration
The Historical Society, having decided 
this was a piece of their past to commem
orate, began searching for a starting point 
for their long-term goals of restoring all of 
Braddock. They chose the Braddock Car
negie Library. It was built in 1889 and was 
the first in a line of free public libraries 
donated in America by Andrew Carnegie. 
The members immediately began plans for 
making the building useful again for edu
cational, recreational and cultural purposes 
(Carnegies original intentions). The society 
is fortunate, Rob Kelly, an Andrew W. Mel
lon Fellow, has provided them with a 
group of design students that suit their 
requirements. The group is responsible for 
demonstrating to politicians and local in
dustries, via graphic communication, that 
there is broad based local support for such 
restoration.
Its been estimated that approximately 
$1 million will be needed for repairs and 
restoration. More important, though, is the 
question of who will be responsible for an
nual usage and upkeep. The Society must 
prove that local area residents really want 
the library preserved.
Our group looks forward to seeing the 
inside of the library (there are presently 
problems of insurance: the whole building 
has been closed since 1974). According to 
past records, it was a multi-purpose facility 
which included a barbershop, pool and 
billiard rooms, a gymnasium, a swimming 
pool and a large music hall seating over 
1000 persons. Libraries just are not built 
like that anymore.
My first visit to the library was some
what disappointing. I was struck by the tra
gedy of Braddocks decline over the years. 
The town is suffering as much from ace 
and neglect as the library itself.
If restored, the building could possibly 
become the most important spot in town 
Thoughts of the apparent consensus, such 
as, If we cant save the Library, what 
can we save? seem to reinforce our ob
servation that there is a strong community 
need for this project to succeed). So, with 
patriotic enthusiasm, our group has set 
down on paper many strategies for re
gaining interest in reopening the library. 
Our most important concern is that of 
building membership in the Braddocks 
Field Historical Society. The group is 
rather small at present, limiting the support 
and influence needed to persuade founda
tions and industries to back them in this 
project. We also plan to prepare presenta
tion materials, such as kits and small ex
hibits, for use with foundations, industries, 
and government offices. Similar kits will 
be provided for local use in Braddock to 
promote the Carnegie Library as a restored 
library and a community culture-recreation 
center. An image program (symbol devel
opment) will be developed for the Brad* 
docks Field Historical Society along with 
exhibits and educational materials for use 
by newspapers, radio and television.
There is no better way for us to learn 
than to do what any designer would dowork on the actual problem. One might 
think we would be wary to attack what has 
been termed, a project that will never get 
off the ground. On the contrary, we re
cognize the unique opportunity that we are 
being challenged with. How many profes
sionals ever had the chance to gain early 
experience working on a project of such 
magnitude while still a student?

---------------------------------------------------

page 12-TARTAN-November 1,1977
AB CONCERTS PRESENTS
THE JOHN MAYALL BAND
with special guests
THE JAMES COTTON BAND
FRIDAY, NOV. 11th
TWO SHOWS: 7:30 p.m. & 10:30 PM.
SKIBO BALLROOM 
Tickets: $3.00 with Student I.D.
$5.00 general public
Available at the Skibo Information Desk and Pitt Ticket Office

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
NEWMAN AND LITTLE CRIMINALS
A record review 
Record: Little Criminals 
Artist: Randy Newman 
Label: Warner
by David Doremus
Randy Newman has always been known 
for his unique satiric vision and his minia
ture portraits of various slices of American 
life. His latest album Little Criminals is a 
worthy successor to Sail Away and Good 
Old Boys. His tunes are catchy, singable 
and always beautifully fitted to the lyrics. 
He has an amazing flair for capturing a sub
ject in words and melody in such a way 
that from then on it is completely his own.
The surprising thing about Randy New
man is that, while groups and singers like 
Three Dog Night and Alan Price have had 
enormous success with cover versions of his 
songs, he himself has never had any wide
spread popular acceptance. Newmans ver
sions of his own songs are not only defin
itive, they are better performed, better to 
listen to and completely lacking any taint 
of commercially. His arrangements are 
perfect, excluding an occasional overdose 
of strings. His voice emphasizes odd and 
unexpected bits of songs, making them 
more interesting and involving than a ver
sion sung straight through.
Perhaps Little Criminals will get Randy 
Newman the popular acclaim he deserves, 
if it doesnt one would have to seriously 
reflect upon the nature and taste of the 
record buying public.
This album continues Newmans explor
ation of his favorite themes: prejudice, 
America, and the under belly of society. 
Short People is the closest thing to a per
fect anti-bigotry song ever put on a re
cord. The idea of ridiculing prejudice by 
turning it against height is not original but 
Newmans treatment of it is superb. To a 
bouncy, rock and roll melody he declaims: 
they got little hands and little eyes/ they 
walk around telling great big lies... they got 
grubby little fingers and dirty little minds/ 
theyre gonna get you every time/Well, 1 
dont want no short people round here. 
The lightness of the tune and humour of 
the lyrics emphasize the underlying bit
terness of the theme while, at the same 
time, making .this one of the catchiest 
songs Newman has written, comparable to 
Political Science and Rednecks.
The American dream gets short shritt in 
Sigmund Freud's impersonation of Albert 
Einstein in America. America, America/ 
step out into the light/ youre the best 
dream man has ever dreamed/ and may all 
your christmases be white is the final 
vesse of a very short tune that manages to 
hit Freudianism, Americas obsession with 
gypsy thighs that pound and pound and 
pound and the paradox of a land built on 
the idea of freedom and liberty that in
flicts on its citizens the subtle oppression 
of stereotyping, designated roles and posi
tions in society.
Jolly Coppers on Parade is the tongue in 
cheek account of a child watching a police 
parade, Looks like angels have come 
down from Paradise, and saying to his 
mama thats the life for me... thats what 
Im gonna be. The moral is obvious.
Newmans impression of societys out
casts appears in Little Criminals and You 
Cant Fool The Fat Man. Both are very 
clean rock tunes, characterized by a driving 
beat and sparse but effective use of horns. 
They present two sides of basically the 
same situation. On one side are the little 
criminals who have almost made it to the 
top and spurn the junkie business of 
former associates who might screw us up 
again. The voices that arrogantly say we 
dont need you around here, jerk-off are 
possibly the same ones in You Can't Fool 
The Fat Man, a few years later, a few 
more failures, who are pleading must 1 
pay my whole life long/for just one mis
take?
Of course the answer is youre just a 
two-bit grifter/and thats all youll ever 
be. These portraits are. however, surpris
ingly sympathetic. Newman understands 
his characters, paints them honestly but 
still empathizes with them. They are, after 
all, people and a part of all of us. One feels 
that, unlike the Fat man, he would loan 
grifter 50 bucks knowing that he would 
never see it again but also knowing that he 
is helping a man who is, in the final analy
sis, no better or worse than himself.
A discussion of this album would not be 
complete without a mention of the short 
songs for piano, voice and strings in which 
Newman treats grief and old age. Texas
Girl at the Funeral of her Father is a brief 
but incredibly moving song in which the 
calmness of the lyrics and measured slow
ness of the melody accentuate the sorrow 
and pathos underneath. Old Man on the 
Farm is also short and sweet. Waiting for 
some rain to fall/waiting for some mail to 
come waiting for death. Newman has 
achieved in three short verses what John 
Price spent a long time trying to say in a 
much more involved song. Newmans mas
terful summation of a situation in a few 
words and notes make the impression of 
loneliness, depression and lack of purpose 
all the more powerful.
Little Criminals is, superficially, an al
bum of fine, catchy tunes, easy to listen to 
and beautifully produced and performed. 
Randy Newman enlisted Joe Walsh, Glenn 
Frey, Don Henley, J.D. Souther and Ry 
Looder to play on this record and the 
sound is impeccable. But, on a deeper level, 
it is a social statement of some importance. 
Newmans comments are witty, apt and to 
the point, he does not lapse into a preachy 
tone or proselytize for converts. He merely 
lays out his impressions and in effect says, 
this is the way things are-make of it what 
you will. What makes the album so effec
tive is its humour and affection, this is a 
very warm record, Newman is never bitter 
or spiteful, he is always hopeful and com
forting. The freshness of his point of view 
is a rarity as is his gentleness and laughter. 
There are no weak points on this record, it 
maintains a remarkably high level of com
position, the songs are arranged well for 
maximum effect. One asks, what can he 
possibly do to top this?
CLOWNING AS A WAY OF LIFE
by David Sharp
Steve Smith said he knew that he was 
doing the righf thi i when he looked at 
the job application. Instead of asking the 
usual questions concerning past employers 
and job references, it asked:- When was 
the last time you cried? What is your favor
ite book? So reads the application for 
Ringling Brothers Clown College of which 
Smith is a graduate.
Steve Smith, dressed in the guise of his 
clown, T.J. Tatters, was on campus last 
Thursday to talk to a group of drama stu
dents in the Kresge Theatre. He began by 
performing three mime sketches, Hats 
Off, Marbles, and Daydreams. Then 
he came out and spoke about the clowning 
tradition and life with the circus.
The art of clowning is not to be taken 
lightly, Smith said. Clowning is designed 
to make everybody feel ten years old again. But he cautioned against examining 
the art too closely. Once you start dis
secting comedy, you ruin the spontaneity 
of it. 
Back in the sixties Ringling Brothers 
was sold to a new management. At that 
time they had 15 clowns between the ages 
of 50 and 80. The art seemed to be dying. 
It was then that the new management de
cided to set up a training school especially 
for clowns. Now they receive over 5000 
applications a year and take only 50 stu
dents. Those admitted are enrolled free of 
charge. At the end of their training session, 
roughly half the class is awarded a contract 
by the Greatest Show on Earth.
Steve graduated from Clown College in 
1971, and was hired to perform with the 
Blue Unit of The Greatest Show on Earth 
during its 1972 season. Steve found profes
energy level automatically shoots up. 
Walking into an arena full of people is like 
getting a shot of adrenalin, Smith 
continues.
The college curriculum includes classes 
in gymnastics, juggling, horseback riding, 
elephant riding, yoga, the ctHogy of 
children, ma e-up costur a? d m ly 
more skill-oriented classes. It is a nine week 
training session.
It is an unwritten law that you dont 
copy another clowns make-up. The 
make-up must be an extension of your own 
self. It has got to come from the inside 
out. There are fewer than 200 professional 
clowns in the United States and no two 
clowns have the same make-up, says 
Smith. His own make-up and costume went 
through many revisions before it evolved 
into T.J. Tatters.
It is the clowns job to prime the aud
ience to enter the fantasy world of the 
circus. Smith describes the circus as a trip 
to Never, Never Land. There is no time, 
no cares, no message.
Smith blamed the mass media for ex
ploiting and romanticizing circus life. Life 
on the road is hectic he admits affection
ately. Most clowns only stay in the busi
ness for two or three years. The gripe against the modern circus is that they no 
longer appear in a tent. Everybody says 
weve taken the heart and soul out of the 
circus, says Smith. Well, Ill tell you, an 
elephant smells the same in a civic center 
as it does in a tent. The tents were hot and 
not very safe.
When asked if hed ever quit the circus 
and settle down Smith replied, No, once 
it gets into your blood, theres no getting 
it out.
The Ringling Brothers and Barnum & 
Bailey Circus will be appearing at the Pitts
burgh Civic Arena from Thursday, Novem
ber 3 until Sunday November 6.
sional clowning to be a job that was both 
rewarding and demanding. The biggest re
quirements for clowning, says Steve, are 
fortitude, determination and energy. Its 
hard work being funny for 12 to 16 hours 
a .day. But the satisfaction you get is tre
mendous. All those people laughing and 
clappingits really inspiring!
Life in the circus is not an easy life. 
You must learn to eat, drink and sleep 
circus and you must adapt to it, Smith ex
plains. There are days when a clown does 
not feel funny, but he must go on anyway. 
The make-up will eliminate all of the back
stage garbage. Once you put that on your 
face you become the clown and your
Steve Smith, as TJ Tatters, clowns for Ringling Brothers

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANNovember 1, 1977
PBT FAILS TO CAPTURE ROMANCE
A dance review 
Ballet: Coppelia 
Company: Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre
by Knox Uguccioni
Coppelia, one of the last ballets of the 
romantic, Napoleanic era, has lasteu a hun
dred years without losing its charm. It 
is the story of Swanhilda and her fiance 
Franz, who has lately shown an interest 
in Coppelia. Swanhilda is jealous, of 
course, and when the town Burgermaster 
announces that he will give a dowry to 
those couples who become engaged, at
tempts are made to reconcile Swanhilda 
and Franz.
When Dr. Coppelius comes out for his 
evening drink he accidently drops his key 
which is discovered by Swanhilda. She 
decides to discover Coppelias identity and 
once inside Dr. Coppelius workshop she 
finds that Coppelia is only a mechanical 
creation. When the doctor returns unexpectedly, Swanhilda hides in an alcove 
with the mechanical Coppelia.
Meanwhile, Franz sneaks into the work
shop and is confronted by the doctor. He 
is given a drink containing a sleeping po
tion and when he is asleep, Dr. Coppelius 
brings out Coppelia, unaware that Swan
hilda has switched places with her. Dr. 
Coppelius tries to transfer life from the 
sleeping Franz to the doll, and Swanhilda 
responds, fooling him. When Franz awa
kens, Dr. Coppelius puts Swanhilda back 
into the alcove and as Franz eludes the 
irate toymaker, Swanhilda comes out 
with the Coppelia doll. Dr. Coppelius 
is heartbroken by the trick, but is compen
sated with gold from the town burgermas
ter. Swanhilda and Franz are reconciled 
and the entire village celebrates the betro
thal holiday.
Jo Ann McCarthy danced an excellent 
Swanhilda. Her dancing was flawless and 
she sparkled throughout the ballet. Dennis 
Poole as Franz was extremely slow and 
hesitant at the beginning, but he gradually 
improved and danced the second act with 
more confidence. Gernot Petzold was a 
marvelous Dr. Coppelius, the slightly
wacky but ultimately lovable toymaker, 
and Gragory Glodowski was exemplary 
as the lead dancer for the villagers1 Mazurka. He was vigorous, flashy as well as tech
nically proficient and his performance 
gave a lift to the lackluster dancing in the 
first act. Others in the company were 
dancing poorly for the most part. Their 
tripping and stumbling detracted consid
erably from the performance.
The major flaw was that the ballet was 
like the sets, plain and without depth. 
There seemed to be no character devel
opment at all, not in dancing or in ges
tures. The characters were shallow and 
expressed only simple emotions. The roles 
were simplistic and uninteresting and even
tually it didnt matter is Swanhilda and 
Franz were ever reconciled.
The staging was a set of separate dances 
which were haphazardly linked. This be
came very obvious as the Burgermaster 
called each group of performers onstage 
for their turn. The continuity of the 
story was not carried through to the 
dancing.,
Sadly, the entire production failed to 
capture that special, romantic quality 
which typlifies the era in which Coppelia 
was written. We know the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre can do better.
by John Goodman
The show opening tonight at the Gallery 
differs fundamentally from any of this 
years previous shows. Rather than a survey 
of a field (Crafts, Printmaking, Photogra
phy) we have on display works represent
ing the specific outlooks of three artists: 
Michael Bokulich, Mark Pozzi, and Lucy 
Russo.
Michael is represented primarily by his 
paintings, particularly in a special exhibit 
in the Gallery Plus. The three walls of this 
small room are covered with three large 
paintings in an attempt at modifying the 
space of the room through the surface of 
the paintings. Michaels artistic concern is 
to keep the eyes moving over his work; to 
prevent them from resting on one point. 
This motion is impelled by the transitional 
shapes on the canvas, which always seem to 
be in the process of becoming, and resist 
static impressions. To gage their effects on
the walls of the room was the rationale of 
this Gallery Plus exhibit.
Mark Pozzis work also concerns itself 
with the concept of space. In an almost 
architectural piece (he has worked for 
architects), Mark explores the possibili
ties of sculpture arranged to the exhibit 
area. His work has no fixed format, and the 
monumental pieces, each interesting alone, 
work together to define their own space. 
The sculpture extends beyond its tangible 
borders and into the surrounding area on 
the strength of its cohesive relationships.
The sculpture shown by Lucy Russo, 
like Marks, is built on the relationship and 
arrangement of parts. However, her works 
are self-contained, and like Michaels paint
ings, the intent is to compel the movement 
of the eye. The repetition of similar forms 
within each piece leads to a concentration 
on the action among the parts, carrying 
the attention through the work.
Along with the paintings and sculpture 
are accessory drawings done to comple
ment the concepts of the major works and 
as sketches of similar ideas. This is not a 
show of pretty pictures, but it is an in
teresting display of contemporary artistic 
trends. Again, the show opens tonight, 
November 1, with refreshments provided, 
and will run through to next Sunday, 
November 6.
LAST WEEK'S AD SHOULD HAVE READ:
WHAT DOES ARMY ROTC 
MEAN TO YOU?
1. Leadership Training
2. Management Training
3. Responsibility
4. Challenge
5. Adventure
If you are looking for job or career options come and 
see us.
The next Adventure Day will be
ORIENTEERING
Er9o-8, sBI yBQQ
The bus will leave from in front of Margaret Morrison at 
8:00 AM. 
You don't know anything about Orienteering. Don't let 
that stop you. There will be people from the US Orienteer
ing Federation to teach you. This event is open to everyone. 
For more information call: MSG Adderly 
578-2204 
or
Stop by MM Rm B-5
ARMY ROTC

---------------------------------------------------

November 1,1977-TAR TAN-page 15
20th CENTURY FOX Presents
A RICHARD ROTH Presentation ol A FRED ZINNEMANN film
JANE FONOA VANESSA REDGRAVE 
I-----------------------JULIA------------------------1
& JASON ROBARDS HAL HOLBROOK 
ROSEMARY MURPHY a* MAXIMILIAN SCHELLS,
Directed by Produced by Screenplay by Based upon the story byFRED ZINNEMANN RICHARD ROTH ALVIN SARGENT LILLIAN HELLMAN
Music byGEORGES DELERUE
PGPARENTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTED <S&]PRINTS BY DeLUXEBSOME MATERIAL MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR CHILDREN,1977 20th Century-Fox
OPENS THIS WEEK AT
Squirrel Hill Theatre
S9bu
QUALITY REFERENCE, TECHNICAL & SCHOLARLY BOOKS AT SAVINGS OF 50% TO 85% OFF ORIGINAL PUBLISHED PRICESFOOD S4LE! w
The story oi two women whose friendship suddenly became a matter of life and death.
And bass player Charles Calmese, who 
was 17 when Cotton hired him, recalls, 
1 asked Jimmy for a gig, and he just told 
me, Practice hard, get yourself together, 
and one day 111 hire you. And he kept 
coming by where I was playing, watched 
my little moves, got to know me, and I 
guess when he felt I was good enough, he 
said,Well, Its time. 
For lead guitar, Cotton chose veteran 
Matt Murphy who came up playing with 
men like Wolf, Bobby Bland, and Junior 
Parker. Obsessive about his instrument, 
Murphy has for years probed its potential
Based on a true story.
JAMES COTTON SELECTS A BAND
and worked toward perfecting his tech
nique. His leads dazzle: fast, rich with 
trilling runs, flamenco-inspired intricacies 
and jazzy rhythms.
Because keyboards were prominent m 
his second Buddah album, High Energy 
a collection of funk-inspired boogies that 
take off from blues roots James added a 
piano player to his group, 23-year-old Mike 
Zaitchik. At a gig in the spring of 75, Mike 
jammed with the band, tore the piano up 
and brought the house down, so the 
Boston-bred, musically sophisticated Zait
chik was a natural choice.
And on tenor sax, Cotton now has 
another Massachusetts-based musician with 
formal training and a lot of experience, 28 
year-old George Gregory. The tenor is 
crucial to Cottons contemporariness; it 
provides a swinging bridge between blues, 
boogie and funk.
One of the great strengths in the Cotton 
band is the bond the musicians share: 
theyre all exactly where they want to be, 
and it shows. James himself is the Bands 
center, relentless as a hurricanes eye. Al
though he doesnt think of himself as a 
singer, he uses his husky, burred voice 
without restraint knowing it will never 
fail him exactly as he uses his harp. Hes 
the catalyst, always pushing, extracting, 
giving. Denying human limitations, he 
pours everything into his performances.
James Cotton will perform on the same 
bill as the John Mayall Band at the AB con
cert on Friday, Nov. 11. Shows are at 7:30 
and 10:30 in the Skibo Ballroom. Tickets 
are $3.00 with ID and $5.00 without and 
are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
AB WILL PRESENT 
JAMES COTTON AND 
JOHN MAYALL
Before a performance, James Cotton sits 
alone through his bands opening instru
mentals. Impassive as he listens to the rush 
of sound, he converts the music and the 
crowds energy, making them his own, 
and allowing no distraction to puncture 
his concentration. Then, fully charged, he 
attacks the stage. When his performance is 
overhis eyes glazed and clothes sweatsoaked hes totally drained.
James is natural wonder and as with 
all natural phenomena, energy r the key. 
And commitment to music along with 
determination(he calls himself stubborn)
give direction to his awesome energy.
When he was seven,his mother gave him 
a toy harp, something to make noise on. 
He discovered the legendary harp player, 
Sonny Boy Williamson on radio station 
KFFA, Helena, Arkansas, learned all Sonny 
Boys material, and, at age nine, left home 
to join his idol. Six years later, Sonny Boy 
suddenly left the band in James charge 
and, totally unprepared for the responsibil
ity, his new position went to the teenagers 
head. James says he did everything wrong. 
Because he refused to take any advice from 
the older men in his band, they finally 
just left cut me loose. Cotton had time
then to think about what had happened, 
especially the right and wrong way to lead 
a band, and his philosophy of taking car^ 
of business began to take shape.
After that trauma, he worked with, 
among others, Willie Nix, Ike Turner, and 
Howlin Wolf then spent 12 years with 
Muddy Waters whose effect on him was 
profound. Paternalistic with his music
ians, Muddy was father to James convic
tion that a successful band needs a 
strong leader. In Blues, Cotton tells 
authors Neff and Conner, Any organi
zation has to have a leader. Like when it 
gets cold and geese fly South; they got one 
goose out there in front. They all got to 
believe hes flying the right way.
In 1971, James organized his present 
band. Knowing just what he was after, he 
chose as his drummer a 19-year-old Chica
go rock musician, Ken Johnson. About 
joining Cotton, Ken says, James taught 
me his blues. I couldnt play it when I 
first got with the band. He took his time, 
didnt rush me didnt rush any of us be
cause he knew we had the determination to 
do it anyway.
SUBJECTS BY THE DOZENS. TITLES BY THE HUNDREDS.
? HISTORY ? SOCIOLOGY ? ART ? ECONOMICS
? PHILOSOPHY ? MATHEMATICS ? EDUCATION ? SCIENCE
? HEALTH ? SPEECH ? LAA/ ? ECOLOGY ? TRAVEL
? POLITICAL SCIENCE ? RELIGION ? BUSINESS ? MEDICAL
? ENGINEERING ? LITERATURE ? PSYCHOLOGY
? LANGUAGES ? MUSIC ? MORE. MORE. MORE

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
Jazz master Dave Brubeck will join hii 
3 sons to form the New Brubeck Quar 
tet appearing in Heinz Hall's Cavalcade 
of Great Bands on Tuesday, November 
1 at 8 PM.
Tickets to hear this unique family 
affair are $8, $7 and $6 on sale at Heinz 
Hall, Gimbels, Horne's, Kaufmanns and 
Sears. Discount information is available 
by contacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at (412) 
281-8185.
Appearing as the second feature in Heinz 
Halls Cavalcade of Great Bands" series 
will be the New Brubeck Quartet for one 
concert only Tuesday, November 1 at 
8 PM.
Tickets to hear this special jazz en
semble are $8, $7, and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Sears, Gimbels, 
and Home's.
Music giant Andre Kostelanetz will con
duct the Pittsburgh Symphony Pops Or
chestra in concerts in Heinz Hall on Satur
day, November 5 at 8 PM, Sunday, Novem
ber 6 at 8 PM, and Monday, November 7 
at 7:30 PM. Attendance at Pops concerts 
is by series subscription only. However, 
tickets are occasionally turned back to the 
box office for reassignment. For informa
tion phone 281-5000.
The Vienna Choir Boys will perform one 
concert in Heinz Hall on November 21 at
8 PM.
Tickets for this internationally-re
sown ensemble are $7, $6, and $5 on 
sale at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, Kaufmanns, 
Hornes and Sears. Student, senior citizen, 
and group discounts are available by 
contacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at 281-8185.
The Pittsburgh Symphony, together with 
guest artists Ingrid Bjoner and Spas Wenkoff, will perform music from Richard 
Wagner's beloved music drama "Tristan 
and Isolde in concerts in Heinz Hall on 
Thursday, November 3 at 8 PM, Friday, 
November 4 at 8:30 PM and Sunday af
ternoon, November 6 at 2:30 PM. Atten
dance at Pittsburgh Symphony concerts is 
by subscription only, but tickets are some
times turned back to the box office for re
assignment. For information, phone 
281-5000.
The 415 Players will present a recital of 
baroque chamber music on copies of his
torical instruments Friday evening, Novem
ber 11, at 8 PM. The group consists of 
Larry Kiefer, recorder and baroque oboe; 
Patricia Griffin, mezzo-soprano, and 
Thomas Frankenberg, viola da gamba 
(graduate of the CMU music department); 
and Richard Stern, harpsichord ( a member 
of the electrical and biomedical engineering 
faculties at CMU). The recital, featuring 
works by Bach, Handel, Telemann, Purcell, 
and Sweelinck, will be at Calvary Episcopal 
Church, 305 Shady Avenue, admission is 
free.
An international program, featuring Ameriican, German and Russian composers, 
has been announced by the Pittsburgh 
Symphony for its City Concert, Wednes
day, November 23, 8 PM, in Heinz Hall. 
Admission is free to city residents only 
for the City Concerts, funded by the city's 
Performing Arts Program.
For the 16th year the City of Pitts
burgh is sponsoring four free concerts by 
the Pittsburgh Symphony, the last of 
which will take place in early summer in 
Schenley Park.
THEATRE
Same Time, Next Year, the romantic 
comedy hit starring Barbara Rush and 
Tom Troupe, will continue Heinz Halls
Broadway Theater Series for eight per
formances on November 8-13.
Ranging from $10 to $4, tickets for this 
Broadway smash comedy are on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Gimbels, Hornes, Kaufmanns 
and Sears. Discount information for stu
dents, senior citizens, and groups of 20 or 
more is available by contacting Ms. Nancy 
Sieber at 281-8185.
As part of its artistic expansion plans for 
the 1977-78 season, Pittsburgh Public The
atre will initiate a New Play Development 
Program of staged readings including three 
new plays never before produced. The 
series is intended to develop and refine 
plays with the playwright for eventual 
mainstage performances at the Public. Due 
to extremely limited seating, this series is 
available only to the Publics subscribers.
All readings will be presented on Pitts
burgh Public Theaters mainstage at the 
Alleqheny Theater bn the citys Northside.
For additional information on the Pub
lic Forum, contact the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater at 765-3400.
CINEMA
AB will be presenting Roman Polanski's 
The Tenant. This is the same man who 
brought us such notables as Rosemarys 
Baby and Chinatown. The film will be 
screened on Thursday, November 3 at
6, 8:30 and 11:00 in Doherty Hall.
AB will be presenting David Bowie in The 
Man Who Fell to Earth on Friday, Novem
ber 4 at 6:30, 9, and 11:30. All AB films 
are screened in Doherty Hall.
SDC will present The Bingo Long Travel
ling All-Stars and Motor Kings, a film in
volving black comedy on the baseball dia
mond, on November 5 at 6, 8:30 and 11. 
This one is Free.
The Carnegie Institute sponsors several \ 
films a week in their building down in Oak
land. Admission is always one dollar. Call 
the film section of Carnegie Institute at
622-3212.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery, located in the Build^ 
ing of Fine Arts, will be exhibiting a show
ing of paintings by Clayton Pond, a CMU 
graduate. Mr. Pond is a painter and printer 
who has exhibited internationally; he will 
be on campus for the opening and several 
lectures. The exhibition runs from Novem
ber 1 to 18. Preview is Tuesday, November 
1 from 7:30 until 9:30. Gallery hours are 
Monday thru Friday, 11:00 to 4:00. f
MISC.
TGIF will be presenting a dynamite Pitts
burgh band named Church Street. Theyve 
played in many lounges, discos and bars in 
the area. Theyre set to appear in the Skibo {% 
Ballroom from 9:30 until 12:30 on Nov
ember 4. Get there early.
Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey Circus 
will appear at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena 
Thursday, November 3, through Sunday, 
November 6. A brand-new, completely dif
ferent show will be presented in the first 
Pittsburgh appearance of the Blue Unit of 
the Greatest Show on Earth in four years. ^
From Mexico City, the widely-acclaimed 
Ballet Mexicano de Graciela Tapia will 
present an exciting two-hour "fiesta 
folklorico" at Heinz Hall on Tuesday, 
November 22 at 8 PM.
Tickets for this intense, colorful spec
tacle at $8, $7, and $6 are on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Home's, Sears, Gimbels and 
Kaufmanns.
1977 BENJAMIN F. FAIRLESS MEMORIAL LECTURES
WHERRETT ROOM, 5:30 P.M. 
NOVEMBER 8, 9, 10
r '
SPEAKER: MONROE E. SPAGHT
DIRECTOR, ROYAL DUTCH-SHELL COMPANIES
"THE MULTINATIONAL CORPORATION: 
ITS MANNERS, METHODS AND MYTHS"
LECTURE TOPICS:
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8: "MANNERS" 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9: "METHODS" 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10: "MYTHS"
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK.

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1977TARTANpage 17
. ALPHA TAU OMEGA WINS IM FOOTBALL TITLE
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 sf
and Lou Gatti. The All-Stars were 
noticeably sluggish on both offense and 
defense now. A double pass from Antimarino to Gatehouse to Miller provided ano
ther touchdown to make it 19-6.
The All-Stars could still get nothing 
going as a big gainer to Scott was called 
^ back on an illegal block penalty. The AllStars spirit was sagging and they punted. 
ATO moved smoothly, but were finally
halted. The All-Stars went nowhere and 
punted again.
Antimarino to Gatehouse paid off again 
for six, set up by excellent runs by Anti
marino. With five minutes left in the game, 
ATO was riding high, and the All-Stars 
showed no sign of a spectacular come
back.
The All-Stars did move the ball well 
enough to score again to Jim Fritzinger,
but the seven points came too late. ATO 
iced the cake with a pass to Mike DeBrossi 
to make the final 31-13.
ATO blocking and rushing made the dif
ference as the All-Stars Boron rarely ran 
and was sacked six times. Antimarino 
was caught once. ATOs all-round inspired 
play contrasted the All-Stars lackluster 
performance.
In the semifinals leading to the cham
pionship, ATO embarassed PIKA 44-12 
with just about everybody on the team 
scoring points one way or another. 
Coaches All-Stars dumped SAE again 
40-10 with key interceptions by A1 
Koblin and Boron finding Scattaregin, T. 
Schiffman, Pochan, and himself in the 
endzone. SAE made a game of it in the 
early going with TDs to J. Schiffman and 
Nacy.
'Tarfanettes'
. Second In 
Conference
The Womens Varsity Tennis Team, 
under the coaching of Peggy Russell, fin
ished second in the Pennwood West Con
ference with a record of 4-1. Their only
* loss was to Seton Hill, who finished first. 
The CMU teams overall record was 8-5.
The teams success resulted from the 
combined effort of all the teams mem
bers. CMU didnt lose a Conference match 
at Second Singles, a position shared by 
Denise Ryan and Robin Klar.: Marya 
Piasecki finished the season at Third 
Singles with an 8-2 overall record, and 
P came out of the Conference with a 5-0 
record.
The Varsity Tennis Team finished up 
their season this week by defeating Cali
fornia State on Tuesday with a score of 
3-2, and Washington and Jefferson on 
Thursday 5-0.J m'i O Jb iiXul JVC
-09CJ2 If/holoo .SPflSlm ion> Volleyball 
And Soccer:
Preview
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 yB
Finese, Clams, and Permutations are 
dorm teams that have some former varisty 
competitors.
GSIA will compete with foreign-bred 
soccer players.
In six-man volleyball, Coaches AllStars will defend their title for the second 
year in a row with veterans Dirk Kalp and 
Pete Dixon joined by SAE grads Mike 
Pochan and Ray Smith.
SAE, last years runnerup, will show 
new blood plus veterans Dave Chandler and 
Jim Parker.
Perennial contender FEVA returns again 
under the direction of Phil Karleton.
Schlag, 1976 intermediate champs, 
make a step up with setter Mark Crowley 
running the show.
Beta rounds out the league with an in
experienced team.
When fire destroyed the Abernathys home, you reached out to them through 
the RED CROSS ... a good neighbor when disaster strikes.
Reach out and touch somebody the United Way
WHAT'S FOR DINNER TONIGHT?
Stuffed Pork Chops__________________________________Kiltie Cafe
(Three Point Night) .3
AUTHENTIC GERMAN TORTES___________________Morewood Gardens
DON'T MISS ITU! I

---------------------------------------------------

page 18TARTANNovember 1, 1977
Morewood GardensAUTHENTIC GERMAN TORTES
DON'T MISS (Till
Harriers Head For Showdown With Case
by Cre
Though not quite as challenging as 
dueling the University of Oregon at Eugene 
in May, the Carnegie-Mellon harriers did 
locate a meet to stave their competitive 
desires for the approaching Presidents 
Athletic Conference cross-country cham
pionships on November 5 th.
This weekend the Tartans traveled to
When the hills hit, the barriers accepted 
the pain guttily. By now the leaders had 
shifted back and forth and crossing the 
finish it was Jim Biery, Dario Donatelli, 
and Steve Faloon earning the win. The 
remainder of the squad completed the 
scoring as CMU posted yet another shutout 
of the opposition.
Coach Meckley has been carefully work
ing his team with the consistent effort to 
fully prepare them for the PAC champion
ships. Any stroller in the park has become 
used to the sight of a dozen swift Tartans 
flowing over the leaf-covered trails in 
training. They endlessly run, unified by 
their immediate goal of attaining the vie 
tory laurel at the annual conference show
down. The team remains in high spirits, 
undaunted by the incessant work required. 
Coach Meckley is confronted with the 
problem of fielding the best and most com
petitive team possible for next Saturdays 
meet. With mutual respect and confidence, 
the coach and his runners are showing their 
positive attitude will produce a most 
successful result.
A8rC H1,,b8,7 1,8 -e7bu a,8a1,bmi to, 9Cb7 81,57 w2N
the mountainous South Hills to compete in 
a run-for-fun gathering on Allegheny 
CCs South campus. Finding the extreme
ly hilly six-mile course to their liking, the 
roadrunners cooled the competition early. 
Going out quick from the gun, a large 
pack of Tartans immediately established 
themselves in the front. The leaders were 
soon out of earshot from the assorted 
grumblings coming from the rear.
-199u8 om V19e,n1M
Tartans Drop Terriers
rom9bme8n t,ov a1i8 sf
The offense was able to control the ball 
for the final 3:04 of the game, touching off 
some long awaited celebration. This win 
gives the Tartans a 7-1 record with one
game left in the regular season. 317 yards 
were added by the Carnegie-Mellon offense 
to their P.A.C. total offense record which 
they set last week against Allegheny. The 
Tartans will end the season this Saturday at 
home when they host the Thiel Tomcats.
'brl 081v1m C1n 1 -bi n1 om V19e,n1 17 9C8 7oaCovo,8 ,emmbmi -1rl g8m9 o*8, 9C8 Cemn,8n 1,n 
v1,l to, 9C8 tb,79 9bv8 i1bmbmi yyQ 1,n7 bm sL r1,,b87M
(INCLUDES SHAMPOO, HAIRCUT AND BLOWER STYLING)
Ea8m 7b. n17 
1 g88l RpomM
! ACe,7M 59bu B aMvM? 
kE 2wwEkAp:kA 
k:N:VV2'W
We re the cutters who 
promise to listen to 
the way you want your 
hair cut.
wGxenrsirecmiMts
w':NVEk H2'NSAAkF YE' p:k 2kc TEp:k
w:'p2k:kAVNE0E'kF
sUQ 29goon V9,889 
wb997-e,iCI w1M 3sU 
LQ)U3ff
kE 2wwEkAp:kAV k:N:VV2'W

---------------------------------------------------

November 1,1977-TARTAN -page 19
Booters Finish Fourth In PAC Race
by Gerd Mueller
The Carnegie Mellon University soccer 
team closed out the more than a mediocre 
season by dropping a 5-2 decision to host 
 Allegheny this past Friday. The Tartans, 
playing with a team far from 100 per cent, 
jumped to an early lead only to see it 
dashed by a powerful Allegheny attack.
It was at the fifteen minute mark of 
the first half that the frustrated Gators, 
unable to clear the ball from their own 
penalty area, committed a handball in
fraction in the area to give CMU a penalty kick. Fullback Tom Binnie converted 
the kick to give CMU a short lived 1-0 
lead. The next ten minutes were evenly 
played and both clubs had numerous 
opportunities to score with neither team 
capitalizing. During this period the Gators 
of Allegheny twice beat CMU retainder 
John Hawkins only to be stopped by the 
goal posts on the hosts field.
It was at the 27 minute mark that the 
^ Gators finally scored on a broken Tech
defensive unit. The goal was the first 
allowed by the CMU defense in 7 halves 
of play, a stretch of more than 315 min
utes. Allegheny was unawed by the CMU 
defense however and stormed back to score 
off an indirect kick just 7 minutes after 
their initial score. The play, following an 
obstruction call on Binnie, resulted in a 
low hard shot past Hawkins and it was 
this goal which just seemed to sap the 
reserves from the Tech squad.
Over the following 25 minutes of play 
the Gators were constantly on the attack 
with CMU scrambling to clear the ball 
from their goal area. The Gators of Al
legheny scored with less than two minutes 
to go in the first half and then geared up 
the second half with two more goals in 
under 5 minutes of play to just break the 
backs of the CMU squad.
It was junior Bill Bassett who closed 
out the days scoring, and saved some face 
for the CMU squad, with 20 minutes 
remaining in the game. The outcome 
might have fared better had not CMU
M
Cutout for a weekend
Plus 15# per mile
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you... its time to 
escape. At National Car Rental you can rent an Oldsmobile 
Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. So make 
plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever pastures 
are greener. Make your reservation with National today.
WeJeature GM cars.
4621 FORBES AVENUE 682-1444
National Car Rental
You pay for gas and return c ar to renting city. Kate available Friday noon to Monday noon. 
Non-dlscountable rate subject to change without notice.
TUU ESD AYT,SDEEN OVM BTR DTE8
SUNDAY
NOV. 6
4:30  7:00
SPONSORED
BY: S.W.E.
AT FRATERNITY TICKETS: $2.50
8b9C Ho,n199I omr8 1i1bm u8n 9C8 A8rC 7e1n bm 7ro,bmiM H8 91uub8n 3 io1u7 9Cb7 81, gb9C om8 -8bmi 
9Cb7 7ro,8 1i1bm79 V9M Pbmr8m9M
had to play with captain John Hunt 
plagued with the flu. That, coupled with 
the losses of key players Colin Gement 
(knee) and George Canepa (calf) only 
added to the woes of a very frustrated 
CMU squad who had nothing to say but, 
wait til next year.
Intramurals
JOT THIS DOWN
VOLLEYBALLStarts Tuesday Nov. 
1st. Each team must have^a representative 
attend a rules clinic on Wednesday Nov. 
2nd at 430 PM in the womens gymna
sium. Teams having no representative must 
face the consequences.
SOCCERStarts Tuesday Nov. 1st. 
There also will be a rules clinic on Wednes
day Nov. 2nd at 5 PM in the womens 
gymnasium and all teams are to be repre
sented.
BACKGAMMON, DARTSEntries due 
Tuesday Nov. 1st (today) at 4:30 PM in 
the I.M. office. Check I.M. bulletin board 
for playing dates.
SQUASHWill begin as soon as the 
handball court repairs are completed.
WATER POLO-PARTIAL STANDINGS
No1rC F8m8 u8bmI 1 -b9 nb71aaobm98n gb9C 9Cb7 
81,57 7e1n57 a8,to,v1mr8 b7 uoolbmi to,g1,n 
9o 1 ioon ,8r,eb9bmi 7817omM u8bm 1mn 9C8 A1,91m7 
8mn8n ea z)3M
TEAM
Fox Catchers 
Phi Kappa Theta 
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Swam pm en
WON
4
5 
3 
3
LOST
0
1
1
1
COACHES TO REPEAT?
t9K<
by Joe Kozak
Soccer shows 14 major league teams and 
19 minor league teams, and volleyball has 
5 major, 18 intermediate, 14 minor, and 
10 womens league teams as phase two of 
the IM season begins.
Soccer has some interesting teams and 
players as defending champions Coaches 
All-Stars try to defend their title with one 
play, Pat Wallace, returning from last year. 
The remainder of the team is Coaches 
football team under the direction of Paul 
Neumann.
Three other players from the defending 
champions including 1976 MVP Danny 
Dabby have switched to the Plumbers to 
try and recover the trophy.
Ilker Baybars, 1973 MVP, returns with 
a collection of his friends, known as the 
Terrible Turks, runnersup in 1974.
The Pronads won the intermediate 
crown last year and have decidcd to go 
big time.
SAE was a playoff team the last 3 years 
and return with a verteran squad headed by 
Dave King and Doug Harrigan.
Coalition shows former varsity players 
Pete Kullen and Charlie Lavalee getting to
gether to form a strong team.
ATO will be tough under the head of 
Loti Gat ti and Mike Migrion asthey*$ftw 
that they can play all sports well.
PIKA has some good athletes and ex
perienced soccer players.
Phi Kap is led by former varsity player 
Jim Van Sciver as is Beta with Paul Duff.
rom9bme8n om a1i8 yQChessCorner
by Joseph Bartnicki
White to play and mate in two moves.
SIMM
' 3JBU1 N-N I
XXH <i
: J3MSUV

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDTGRIDDERS CAPTURE 1st PAC TTRE
by Dave Wills
A 48-yard bomb from Rick Brown to 
Tony Diaia with 5:02 left in the game set
up Carnegie-Mellons final touchdown and 
enabled the Tartans to win a hard-fought 
come-from-behind victory over a fired up 
Hiram team. The win also clinched first 
place in the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence, and was CMUs first PAC title ever. 
The game did not come cheaply as Jay 
Meenan and Gus Sunseri were forced to 
leave the game with injuries, the extent of 
which was not immediately known.
The CMU offense took the opening 
kickoff and marched to the Hiram 34 yard 
line. Counter runs of 14 and 6 yards by 
Rich Leaman and inside running by Bob 
Gasior provided most of the yardage be
fore the Terrier defense stiffened. On 
fourth down, several Hiram defenders 
broke through the Carnegie-Mellon line 
and blocked Matt Wehrles punt, recovering 
on the Tartan 27. On third and one, Pat 
Olivo stopped Dave Huen for no gain, so 
Hiram had to settle for a 35 yard field goal 
by Kevin Harter, putting Hiram ahead, 3-0.
Ralph David returned the ensuing kickoff 20 yards to the CMU 35 yard line, and 
a personal foul put the ball on the 50 yard 
line. After a Rick Brown sneak over center 
for 6 yards, Leaman carried the ball 5 
straight times, putting the ball on Hirams 
21 yard line. However, on the next play a
 ................ 
. A.' feK > 
t| |  ~ *
W:,.mm
AC8 NpS ott8m7b*8 ubm8 C17 -88m rom9,ouubmi 9C8 ubm8 ot 7r,bvv1i8 1uu 81,M
Hirams Mike Priebe recovered on their 21 
yard line. Hiram almost scored again on a 
breakaway run by Huen, but Don Stoebe 
put a great open field hit on the Terrier 
runner causing a fumble, which CMU re
covered.
With 9:13 left in the first half, CMU 
got possession of the ball on their own 
20. Gasior picked up a CMU fumble and 
Brown pitchout didn t get to Leaman and turned the play into a nine yard gain. After Brown got 12 yards on a keeper, Gasior 
and Gary Bonn took turns running the in
side veer. A Hiram interception was nul
lified by a roughing the passer call, giving 
Carnegie-Mellon the ball on Hirams 20 
yard line. Three carries by Leamam gave 
Tech the ball on the three yard line. On 
fourth and one, Bonn plunged for the 
touchdown, climaxing an 80 yard drive 
which used over seven minutes on theADE Y, NO VMBM D,R 8
by Joe Kozak
ATO showed poise and intense desire 
as they defeated the previously unbeaten 
Coaches All-Stars in the 1M major league 
football final 31-13. The title was ATOs 
first major league football championship 
in over ten years. The All-Stars loss was 
their second runnerup finish in their five 
years of existence.
ATO set the pace for the game on the 
opening kickoff as Bill Miller ran 40 yards 
for a touchdown. The surprised All-Stars 
worked a drive but were stopped by an 
interception by Bob Gatehouse. ATO
rolled forward with Pete Antimarino con
necting to Miller and Gatehouse, but was 
stopped as Ted Schiffman grabbed the 
ball in the endzone.
The All-Stars improved as Boron found 
Scattaregin and Pat Wallace for first 
downs. The long drive ended with Jim 
Fritzinger catching a bullet on a quick 
post but the extra point was thwarted.
The ATO offense tore right through 
the All-Stars defense and set up a 25-yard 
TD from Antimarino to Gatehouse. The 
blocking was impressive as Pete had all the 
time he needed on a blitz to find Gates.
The All-Stars marched right back on a 
drive lengthened by penalties and set up 
to score from the six-yard line. Three 
times the ATO defense held tough with 
excellent plays by Chuck Mosco and Miller. 
The fourth time, Boron ran it in for the 
score, but the TD was called back on an 
illegal motion penalty on blocking backin-motion Mike Kulak. ATO held again 
and the half ended 13-6.
ATO came out fired up in the second 
half and snuffed the All-Stars offense 
with superb rushing by Frank Pugliano
rom9bme8n om a1i8 yQ
clock. Mike Kostics P.A.T. made the score 
CMU 7, Hiram 3. The Tartans got the ball 
again with 22 seconds left in the half, and 
Brown promptly hit Craig Hladik down the 
left sideline for 32 yards. But CMU could 
not score on the next two plays and time 
ran out in the first half.
Hiram came out for the second half in 
an emotional frenzy. After stopping Carn
egie-Mellons offense cold in their first of
fensive series, the Terriers put together a 
62 yard scoring drive. The two big plays 
were on third down situations, when Hiram 
quarterback Tony Rinella ran a sweep for
10 yards, then passed 12 yards to Bob 
Thomas, before Brian Vance scored on a 6 
yard run. Harter converted the P.A.T. and 
CMU was behind for the second time in 
the game.
CMU couldnt move the ball on the next 
series, but Wehrle got off a 57 yard punt to 
pin Hiram on their own 10 yard line. The 
Tartan defense, with Rick Arturo and Pat 
Olivo making clutch tackles, held Hiram on 
downs, and Ralph David returned the Ter
rier punt 12 yards to the 47 yard line of 
CMU.
A fumble and a mishandled punt kept 
the CMU offense mounting any sustained 
drives, but Don Stoebe, Tac Caine, Rich 
Lackner and Jim Dickenson came up with 
steller defensive plays to keep Hiram out 
of their end zone.
With 7:24 left in the last quarter, the 
Tartans got possession of the ball on their 
20 yard line. Gasior and Bonn alternated 
blasts up the middle, and an offsides call 
against Hiram gave CMU the ball on the 49 
yard line. One play later it was on the 
Hiram one when Brown hit Digoia 
curling over the middle.
Digoia sidestepped a defender and raced 
down the field only to be tripped up at the 
goal line. Brown scored on the next play,^ 
sneaking over behind Bill Daley. The 
P.A.T. wasnt successful, but CMU was ahead for good, 13-10 with 5:02 left in the 
game.
Hiram tried two runs for five yards, 
total before Tac Caine caught the Terrier 
quarterback for no gain, forcing them to 
punt.rom9bme8n om page 18
Where There's "Thunder" There's "Lightening"
so do the offensive line and backfield. 
The Thunder of the blockers that aver
age 6-1, 212 pounds opens the way for the 
Lightening backs to the tune of nearly 
five yards per rushing attempt. The 
trenchmen agreed that the backs have im
proved at reading blocks this season. Al
so the depth in the Tartans backfield has 
been important to the linemen. Meenan 
said, Late in the game, our backs seem 
to have more quickness. This makes our 
blocking assignments easier to carry out.
All of the front line hitters are looking 
forward to the possible chance of playing 
in the NCAA playoffs. There is the curios
ity of how the Tartans stack up against 
top-notch competition. It would be ex
tremely difficult to visualize the combinaj 
tion of strength (Bielich, Meenan, and Ka> 
minski) and techniques (Uram and Daley) ! 
not being near the top.
Defenses are heralded with nicknames I 
like the Steel Curtain, Fearsome Foursome, > 
and Purple People Eaters and running^ 
backs get the glory of touchdowns. But * 
with the exception of the Seven Walls of 
Granite, all an offensive linemen has in 
his search for accolades is the fantasy of re
turning a fumble or deflected pass for a * 
touchdown. Probably none of CMUs 
offensive linemen will have this dream 
come true, but they should definitely take 
pride in their units success this season. 1
by Bob Firm
The most neglected members of a foot
ball team in terms of media coverage are 
without a doubt the offensive linemen. 
Even a second-team placekick holder gets 
more recognition than the men up front. 
However, any honest running back will 
tell you that its his line that makes him 
look good.
This season at Carnegie-Mellon there 
are at least seven regualar backs that thank 
their lucky stars that they run behind 
the efforts of tackles John Bielich and Don 
Kaminski, guards Jay Meenan and Mark 
Uram, and center Bill Daley. The quin
tuplet has paved the way for the Tartans to 
pile up nearly 300 yards per game and 400 
yards of total offense each Saturday after
noon. These outstanding statistics place 
CMU among the best in NCAA Division III.
Seniors Meenan and Bielich echoed 
the main satisfaction that offensive line
men receive from the backs efforts. Mee
nan stated, Yardage is an important 
indication to us as to how well we played. 
If the backs have a good day running the 
ball, then that means we did our job.
Bielich, the largest offensive linemen 
at 6-2,235 pounds, summed it up best whej 
he said, We dont receive the obvious 
rewards like touchdowns or long runs; 
but when you make a block that springs a 
back for the TD, you feel the same excite
AC8 NpS ott8m7b*8 ubm8/RM 9o ,M? JoCm db8ubrCI p1,l S,1vI J1 p88m1mI com 1vbm7lbM Va1,l 
c1u8 mo9 7CogmM
ment that he does.
Head Coach Chuck Klausing has nothing 
but praise for the trenchmen. Theyve 
all improved 100%. Theyre physically 
stronger and have the experience of playing 
together for a year. Theyve dominated 
the line of scrimmage in every game this 
season.
The Tartans have been a balanced blend 
of offense and defense that compliment 
each other well. Kaminski, a junior from 
Baldwin, illuminated that aspect of CMU 
by saying, It helps the defense when we 
can control the ball for long drives because
they get more tired from having to cover 
the entire field while were responsible 
only for zones. On the other hand, it gives 
the offense a psychological edge to have 
the defense shut the opponents down on 
their first possession.
Rielich added, We rely on the defense 
to get the turnovers and good field position 
for us, and they rely on us to take the ball 
in for touchdowns. Obviously, the two 
are working well because the average score 
of a Tartan victory is about 30-5.
Just as offense and defense got together 
this season like Thunder and Lightening,
