iB tartan
January 27, 1976 Volume 76 Number 16
this week
iBtarBnJ uBy2 7,19 6Vy 61o lamy eV,yy 
NBey,a,b T9amBraeB1r c,1ooyt lamy JBd
po,Brm pebgyJ 
6a,earnJ pogBe Tr ssagg
lamy eyr 
lamy e2ygxy
Trustees Discuss Role of Humanities
by Gary Singer
The CMU Board of Trustees, whose 
membership includes some of the nations 
foremost corporate leaders, met for the sec
ond of its three annual meetings on Mon
day, January 19.
The most controversial issue raised dur
ing the three hour meeting was unquestion
ably the discussion on the role of the Col
lege of Humanities and Social Sciences in 
the University. John P. Crecine, the Col
leges new dean who only assumed his full
time responsibilities as Dean at the begin
ning of the current semester, reported that 
H&SS has many problems above and be
yond those encountered by colleges and 
universities in general as well as other lib
eral arts programs.
Crecine reported that the three pro
blems particular to H&SS are: (1) all the 
faculty is currently in the humanities, not 
the social sciences and behavioral sciences; 
(2) there has been a decline in the quality 
of the student body; and (3) there has been 
a decreasing amount of interaction with 
other schools and colleges.
In response to these problems, Crecine 
reported that the college is making crea
tive adaptations which include the recent 
decision by the University to start a Social 
Science Department. The new Dean em
phasized the importance of acquiring a fa
culty whose major commitment was to unergraduate education instead of the present 
arrangement where graduate faculty from 
other colleges lend their time to programs 
within H&SS.
Crecine described the need for rethink
ing the role and content of liberal educa
tion pointing out that despite the great 
changes in the behaviorial and social 
sciences, there has been very little change 
from the classical approach over the past 
40-50 years. Liberal education is current
ly under a great pressure to change, re
ported Crecine, and CMU should grab onto 
the opportunity to fill the intellectual 
vacuum - and build a better mousetrap.
According to its Dean, the better 
mousetrap would establish a program 
which taught students to learn to think 
and operate effectively in a complex en
vironment. This program would be 
broadly based; based on the old Carnegie 
Plan combined with the Psychology of 
Problem Solving. The program would em
phasize analysis and would include more 
instruction on writing and composition.
commented that he hoped H&SS would 
not go too far in deemphasizing English 
noting the recent reports (and examples) 
of the decreasing ability of college students 
to effectively use the English language. 
Both Dr. Cyert and Dean Crecine explained 
that the new emphasis did not detract from 
the teaching of writing and, in fact, while 
only 20% of all English course offerings are 
currently devoted to writing, this number
CMU Board of Trustees meeting on January 19,1976.
Photo by Elliot'Popowitz
Crecine proposed that all students would 
have a common year of course work during 
which time they could decide on their ca
reer choice.
In response to Dean Crecines report, 
John Depp, President of Monsanto EnviroChem Systems, Inc. and Chairman of the 
Trustee Committee on Student Affairs,
will increase to over 50% next year.
Tom Graham, President and Chief Exec
utive 'Officer of J&L Steel Corporation 
then seated that The problems ( in the 
humanities) concern our whole society and 
if CMU is trying to solve it it is biting off 
one hell of a bite. He stated that the uni
versity had a responsibility to incoming
liberal arts students to tell them that they 
would probably not be employable after 
receiving their undergraduate degree. Mr. 
Graham stated that the problem of getting 
jobs for liberal arts niajors is here to stay 
and is not simply a temporary phenomena.
Other members of the Board were con
cerned with how the university would go 
about attracting high quality students to its 
H&SS program. When Dean Crecine 
answered that H&SS would be marketed as 
a school for students who werent ready to 
commit themselves to a career such as 
engineering but who would rather sample 
various academic areas another Board 
member commented that it sounded Like 
a cafeteria A student who doesnt know 
what he wants to do should not be in col
lege, commented Mr. Graham.
Although nothing was solved, the Board 
of Trustees discussion on H&SS raised in
teresting questions and revealed the Board 
to be sincerely interested in the direction 
and educational and financial properity of 
Carnegie-Mellon..
Other items considered by the Board in
cluded a presentation by Student Govern
ment President Douglas Konopka on the 
current concerns of the student body. 
Konopka reported that the housing pro
blem had eased and complemented Dean 
Williams on a fine job. He reported that 
there was currently a committee on camcontinued on page six
Council Set Up to Help Students
by Claire Lee
The Presidents Council on Undergrad
uate Development, set up in the fall of 
75, is beginning to have meetings con
cerning things that really affect stu
dents, according to Professor Cohn, 
a member of the council. The members of
this committee include Deans Kail (CIT/ 
MIS), Lloyd (H&SS), Midani (Fine Arts),
MIS Post Remains Open
by Chip Yeager
No appointment will be made soon to 
fill the post of Dean of MIS, said Provost 
Edward R. Schatz. Schatz, who has been 
acting Dean of MIS since last July, said 
that a committee of MIS department heads
Edward SchatzPhoto by Frank Stein
has a list of a goodly number of appli
cants for the post.
When asked about his seven-month ten
ure in the Deans chair, Schatz replied that 
Theres been no thought of doing it as a 
permanent thing. He added that the in
active search effort resulted from President 
Richard M. Cyerts uncertainty over the di
rection that MIS would take in the future. 
New programs in the math, physics, com
puter science, and biology departments 
have left MIS in a state of flux which 
Warner Hall wishes to resolve before try
ing to match a prospective MIS Dean to 
the school.
As for potential conflict of interest be
tween being Provost of MIS, CIT. and 
CFA, and holding the post of Dean in one 
of those three schools, Schatz admitted 
Its possible. Yet, Schatz said, as Pro
vost, he is simply another educational 
officer. One of the duties of the office is 
to make recommendations to President 
Cyert for faculty promotions, reappoint
ments, and tenure. Such suggestions, said 
Schatz, originate routinely within the in
continued on page six
and Williajns (Resident Life); Dr. Morgan 
(Counseling Center); M. Oliver (Director of 
C-Map); W. Elliot (V. Provost for Enroll
ment Planning); D. Ryan (Director of 
Career Counseling and Placement); and 
Dean Swank (Student Affairs) who is the 
chief coordinator and Secretary for the 
group. The committee is chaired by CMU 
President Richard M. Cyert.
Professor Cohn stated that the council 
was started as a response to a list of univ
ersity student needs. The list included 
the need for closer relations between stu
dents and teachers in and out of class, for 
better academic advising and counseling, 
and for better scheduling and tutoring 
systems.
Itll take some time to get function
ing. Cohn feels that the concern of the 
Council extends from the freshman orien
tation program to the time a student leaves 
CMU (including planning his career in the 
time between). The general work can be
broken down into three parts. The first 
will involve the improvement of the whole 
freshman orientation program for Fall 76. 
Until now it has been composed mainly of 
a short time period which encompasses 
Freshman Camp, a dance, a movie and 
CMU student initiated programs. The 
suggested orientation would include con
sidering how to schedule a student so as 
to give him only the classes he can handle.
After considering orientation resulting 
in suggested guidelines for next fall, the 
Council will take on the project of study
ing the advising and counseling program 
now in existence and see what improve
ments can be made. It will act as a watch
dog committee seeing that each college 
does have an advisory facility. It will not 
interfere with the way departments or 
colleges advise their students, as long as 
they do it. However, the Council will try 
to encourage advisors not only to help 
continued on page six
Housing and Sports Discussed 
by Trustee Committee
by Charles Mitch
Reports presented to the Board of 
Trustees Committee on Student Affairs, 
which met last week, gave an optimistic 
appraisal of the universitys ability to han
dle the diverse problems currently being 
encountered in both housing and athletics. 
The committee also discussed the general 
negative attitude of students toward stu
dent activities and toward alumni of CMU.
Steve Zalewski, Director of Campus 
Services, reported that the university ex
pects to be able to house all who desire 
housing except for married students, dur
ing the next school year. Zalewski explain
ed that leasing of short or medium term 
off-campus residences has been investigated 
for use in the fall of 1976 and stated that 
if necessary, CMU has two options ready 
to sign between February 16 and February 
29. John Depp, Chairman of the Student 
Affairs Committee, asked Zalewski if offcampus housing could be obtained at a 
break even cost level. Zalewski replied 
that breaking even depended on the apart
ment building leased and on our ability 
to negotiate. He felt that with a five year 
lease, the university had a good chance of
continued on page nine

---------------------------------------------------

editors note
IF UNIQUE IS WHAT YOU SEEK
If Dr. Cyert really wants to make CMU an athletic power, he is 
going to have to do more than hire Jim Banner (who, when he Is not 
arguing with a TARTAN, reporter, is dreaming of the Rose Bowl). What 
CMU needs is a truly unique approach which: (I) doesnt violate the 
PAC regulation forbidding athletic scholarships; (2) attracts the most 
qualified athletes currently available; and, (3) draws on the strengths of 
the university, particularly GSIA, CFA, and where applicable, CIT & 
MIS. The obvious solution is for CMU to innovate an Interdisciplinary 
major in Professional A thletlcs.
Many basketball fans still remember the controversy which errupted when 19 year old Moses Malone signed a long-term contract with 
the Utah Stars instead of playing for the University of Maryland. 
College Coaches were appalled that the pro leagues were drafting talent 
directly from high school. The disappointed (and furious) University of 
Maryland Coach Lefty Drelsell commented that Malone was tricked by 
the Stars into signing and that he would have increased his bargaining 
power if he had participated in collegiate athletics before going pro. 
The proposed CMU program would not only halt this infiltration by the 
pro teams but would offer the athlete a strong foundation In the areas 
essential to his/her future professional career.
Current high school talent would be encouraged to come to CMU - 
the only school where they can not only play ball but can also study to 
be a contemporary professional athlete. Students participating In this 
program would obtain the necessary skills to survive In this extremely 
competitive profession; gaining an advantage over their peers who did 
not have the opportunity to take the following courses:
51-460 Fashion Design 12 Units
There is a lot of money in fashion, especially when it Is 
marketed in conjunction with the image of a famous profes
sional athlete. Instructor Joe Namath will discuss the funda
mentals of shirt design and the proper way to sew your signa
ture into labels. Pre-requisite: 70-385.
54-157 Acting for A thletes 9 Units
It is recognized by most athletes that they only have a 
limited amount of time in which to participate in their 
chosen profession. Many athletes have found acting to be an 
effective outlet for their stiffled creativity and depleting wal
let. The course will emphasize that you dont need talent to 
succeed in the movies, just fame. Guest Lecturers will include 
Jim Brown and O.J. Simpson. Pre-requisite: permission of 
the instructor.
57-185 Voice Training 9 Units
This course offers still another alternative for the retiring (or 
even for the off-season, practicing) athletesinging. Instruc
tor Terry Bradshaw will concentrate on vocal communication 
with class projects including a presentation of the "Steeler 
Fight Song.  Pre-requisite: 70-385.
70-385 Personal Financing 9 Units
With million dollar contracts becoming more and more
common place, the professional athlete must be aware of the
various tax loop-holes and investment mediums or else the 
government will profit almost as much as he/she does. This 
course will explore the question "What would I do If I had 
a million dollars?"
70-485 Marketing for Personal Gain 0 9 Units
The only thing as important as athletic talent for the pro
fessional athlete Is an effective image. Instructors Joe Na
math and Bobby Riggs will discuss their own techniques and 
wit help each student participant develop their own particu
lar mage. Pre-requisite: 70-385./
73-366 Collective Bargaining and Contract Negotiations 9 Units
All athletes must negotiate a contract with their teams. This 
course teachs the student the legal background and specific 
skills necessary to negotiate the best possible contract.
73-580 Product Endorsement 9 Units
The professional athlete is often called upon to lend his 
talents, during the off-season, to the endorsement of such va
ried products as hot lather machines and rent-a-cars. This 
course will explore the most effective way to decide which 
products one should endorse and how to go about endorsing 
it. Guest lecturers will include Franco Harris and O.J. Simp
son. Pre-requisite: 70-385.
76-645 Sports Casting Made Simple 3 Units
Many athletes have found enjoyment and money in sports 
broadcasting. This course will explore the basic skills 
involved in this profession including: (1) stumbling over cue 
cards; (2) reading football stories while there is an illustra
tion of tennis on the screen; and, (3) telling dry jokes to 
waste thirty seconds before the commercial. Pre-requisite: 
70-385.
Such a major in Professional Athletics is completely consistent with 
CMUs orientation towards a professional education and the universitys 
committment to this program would finally convince Chuck Klausing 
to stop looking for another job. Student apathy towards athletics 
would be a thing of the past. In fact, we should all run out and buy our 
season tickets right now!
See you at the Super Bowl 
Gary Singer, Editor
letters
An Irresponsible Slur 
Editor:
I think youve done a good 
job with the TARTAN this year. 
I dont mean by that that the 
spelling, punctuation, or proof
ing are up to very high stan
dards, but I do mean that youve 
been thoughtful, that youve 
carried real news, run good fea
tures, and presented a campus 
paper that significantly and not 
too rebelliously attempts to en
gage the mind and conscience of 
the community.
Im the more troubled, there
fore, at what seems to me an 
irresponsible slur in your editor
ial of Jan. 13: The English De
partment spreads the idea that 
journalism is talentless writing; 
an endeavor not deserving the 
talents of their students. I 
dont think thats accurate. I 
know no one within the depart
ment who thinks that way -- out 
loud, at any rate.
Does it matter? Not much, 
perhaps, but so much has been
said so thoughtlessly this past 
term about H&SS that I begin to 
worry.
Arthur Eastman 
Head, English Dept.
We Have Other Interests 
Editor:
Thank you, Jim Russell! Its 
time someone made a comment 
on behalf of those of us who 
have interests which are not, 
and cannot be fulfilled (for one 
reason or another) by C-MU or 
one of the clubs therein.
I, too, was very involved in 
drama in high school, although 
not the acting side. I worked on 
all of the crews and even ran 
lighting for one of the plays. 
Nor was this some half-baked 
club with old equipment and 
even worse productions, but a 
group of dedicated and extreme
ly interested students and fac
ulty. (As a matter of fact, its 
production of Macbeth in
1974, was invited to a national 
convention in Minneapolis: the 
first and only high school ever
to be so honored.)
With this type of experi
ence in my background, I came 
to C-MU and looked for where 
I could apply it. I found notices 
for Scotch n Soda posted 
all over the place - but only for 
those interested in singing, danc
ing, or acting, (none of which I 
am even reasonably adept at). 
So, I went and left a note in 
the S&S mailbox in Skibo ask
ing them to let me know what 
was going on, as I was very 
interested in helping on the pro
duction crews. Someone did get 
in touch with me, but all they 
said, in essence, was; well be 
having auditions for technical 
crews in a few weeks, and you 
should see some signs posted 
about it. That was around the 
middle of last semester, and I 
have seen no notices or heard 
any announcements, save for 
rehearsal calls, since. I wasnt 
even informed of who I could 
call if I wanted to find out 
anything on my own.
Clearly, something needs to 
be done, either with a revision of
continued on page three
Volume 76tartan
January 27, 1976Number 16
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Managing EditorCharles Mitch 
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor: Debbie Rosenkrantz
Entertainment Editor:Mark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor: Rick Costa 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose 
Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Carl West, and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 
621-2600 extent ion656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; [4121 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
ViEUJ ROn THE TO?
6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODF QEDWIlamy A
The recent rise of interest in 
the arts in higher education tend 
to give evidence of the change in 
American temperament. It looks 
as if this generation of the 70s 
is striving to combine self-ex
pression with the sense of pur
pose; a plan for a useful and 
productive place in society, in 
otherwords a job, arduously and 
precisely executed while a joy
ous and sensuously fulfilling life 
must take its course.
In recent years there have 
been few national surveys which 
have signified the rise of the arts 
on the American campuses. 
More students than in any other 
time are choosing the arts, es
pecially through professional 
training, as an educational ex
perience. The result is that 
more universities, without the 
slightest previous knowledge or 
experience, are getting into the 
art act. Many have already in
vested enormous funds, in most 
cases public funds, on new 
buildings and programs with the 
hope that a decline in enroll
ment in one or more education
al areas will be compensated by 
an increase in population in theletters
continued from page two 
Scotch n Soda or in the advent 
of a new drama club. I agree 
with Jim Russell; there should 
be a club which is not limited 
to one musical production a 
year, and which is open to the 
whole campus. Perhaps the very 
existence of such a club, which 
actually got things done, would 
arouse the interest and partici
pation of many more people 
than are presently involved in 
such. At least the idea bears 
consideration.
Janet Lynn Wolkenstein 
Freshman CIT-MIS 
No Sympathy
Editor:
Jim Russells letter of last 
week makes him out to be 
someone caught in a bad situa
tion. However, I really cant 
feel sorry for him, at least not 
while he chose CMU, for the 
slightest inquiry into whether or 
not you can study Math and 
Drama here would have lead you 
to the answer: You cant.
He should know that CMU 
provides professional education 
in numerous fields. Admissions 
tells you that. The catalog tells 
you and President Cyert makes 
speeches about that. Each of 
these fields has its own special 
set of requirements for gradua
tion, and being a professional 
school, you can quess that these 
requirements are numerous. 
Where then, did he get the idea 
that he could study drama and 
math?
Scotch &. Soda, the drama 
club, is a fine way to fulfill his 
great desire for the stage. It is 
too bad he thinks it is a joke. 
Scotch & Soda thinks highly of 
professionally carried out stu
dent works.
Drama here is a very unwelarts programs.
The concept of the education 
of the arts in an institution of 
higher learning was pioneered in 
the Western World by our 
College of Fine Arts. Those 
among us who tend to have a 
modest self-image may think of 
this statement as improbable, 
yet it is true. Since the birth 
of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in the early years 
of this century, the College of 
Fine Arts was conceived as an 
integral component of this insti
tution. The first graduates from 
the Department of Architecture 
went into the profession as 
early as 1908. By 1914, both 
art and education saw for the 
first time an institution of 
higher learning offering detailed 
programs in all fundamental art 
forms. This has been documen
ted on the facade of the Hojnbostel building of this College, 
which went up in the period 
between 1912 and 1914. All 
the arts housed in this beaux 
arts complex were signified. 
Thus five years before the 
Weimar Bauhaus was created by 
Walter Gropius in 1919, a school
coming department. And with 
good reason. Class size is ex
tremely important. If drama was 
to let non-majors take classes, 
50% of the applicant rejects 
would apply to H&SS, get in no 
sweat, and then be a drama 
major in their own peculiar 
sort of way. Great. Now what 
about the bonafide dramats, 
whose class size is now doubled? 
How would they feel? Not only 
would this greatly interfere with 
the philosophy of the school 
and department as to the educa
tional process but would start 
a further separation of dramats 
who justifiably would resent the 
great influx of non-majors into 
their classes.
The drama department makes 
no mention or policy of its 
actors being only fine actors. If 
he is so interested, Russell can 
get his math degree and then ap
ply to drama. If he can get in, in
8 years hell have 2 professional 
degrees. Not only does the dra
ma department want their stu
dents full time, but they, Im 
sure, would like their students 
admitted on the basis of their 
own, dramatic talents, not be
cause of a 5 on the Calculus BC 
exam. Can you begin to see the 
position of the Drama Depart
ment, and do you realize their 
first responsibility is to their 
own students?
What Mr. Russell desires, Im 
afraid he wont find at CMU. I 
can offer however, a possible 
alternative. He should request an 
audition at one of the audition 
dates, and show his talents. If 
acceptable, he should request to 
take classes in Drama,(he will 
still be in MIS). If not accept
able, he has no business taking 
drama courses, (what he would 
like worded on his degree is 
another story). Oh, a bit of adof total art emerged in Pitts
burgh to be administered and 
guided by a single philosophy 
and to offer under one roof 
architecture, art, design, drama 
and music.
A significant innovation was 
created by our College of Fine 
Arts with the establishment of 
the first Drama Department in 
the United States to educate 
and train professionals in the 
arts within a higher educational 
context; the first bachelors de
gree in Drama was awarded in 
1917. Throughout its existence, 
the College has enjoyed and still 
enjoys a strong reputation in its 
training and educating of the 
arts based on the ability of its 
graduates to perform in their 
chosen professions as makers of 
their art, managers, and educa
tors.
Freshman and transfer appli
cations rose steadily from 1367 
in 1971 to 1621 in 1975. Yet 
the highest percentage of admis
sions to applications has been 
41.5% with a total yield of en
rollment of 27.2% of applica
tions. A gratifying result when 
we consider this years populavice when pursuing your ideas 
here at CMU. Dont take no for 
an answer once. Take it about
6 or 7 times from different 
people before you give up. And 
should you give up Jim RusUp With
The article written by Joe 
Orndorff in the Jan. 20 issue 
of the TARTAN demonstrates 
Mr. Omdorffs lack of insight 
into the value of varsity ath
letics. It seems that Mr. Omdorff has never participated in 
a varsity sport, or if he has, has 
received nothing from the exper
ience. When Mr. Orndorff states, 
I dont think it can be proven 
that varsity competition has any 
advantages over intramural 
sport, while it can be seen that 
intramurals are far superior to 
interscholastic competiton, this 
brings several questions to mind. 
It can be seen by whom that 
intramurals have advantages over 
intercollegiate sports? Perhaps 
by Mr. Orndorff, but not us. Mr. 
Orndorff neglected to write his 
reasoning on the shortcomings 
of varsity sports. Varsity athle
tics offers the sense of team 
pride, accomplishment, compettion, and team spirit that intra
murals can only rarely, if ever, 
offer. Intercollegiate competi
tion allows the athlete to exper
ience people and places he might 
never see otherwise. Varsity 
competition allows the athlete 
to meet people from other 
schools and visit other schools, 
which intramurals cannot do. In 
addition, varisty athletics offers 
the best way for the serious 
athlete to improve himself 
through working with people 
who are professionals in their 
field. Intramurals, where the
tion of students in the College as 
the largest in its history without 
the least sacrifice in quality. In 
Fall 1975, the number of fresh
man and transfer students was 
441, selected from 1621 appli
cants.
This seniority position, an 
excellent name, and a perpetual 
self-evaluation effort, should 
give our College the chance to 
express an opinion on the recent 
projects undertaken by many in
stitutions of higher learning to 
expand their arts programs. This 
opinion, although backed by ex
perience, is primarily the con
cern of an educators conscience.
As arts grow in society into 
more than just ornaments, what 
measures are being taken to pro
vide those who graduate from 
the university art programs with 
opportunities to become true 
makers of and contributors to 
their arts?
Andre Fortier, Director of 
the Canada Council on the Arts, 
recently addressed the problem 
which has become more appar
ent on the North American contin^ri, in the United States and 
Canada alike, as a need to equate
sell, there is always a score of 
small liberal arts colleges who 
would welcome your diversity 
of talents.
Michael Salemi 
Sophomore, Design
Varsity
team coaches itself, cannot 
hope to give the serious athlete, 
who desires to improve himself 
to do so, the opportunity for 
intstruction from experienced 
individuals that varsity sports 
offer. For these reasons, varsity 
athletics are necessary to the 
serious athlete.
Mr. Orndorffs statement that 
there are those who are in 
sports for three things: notori
ety, awards, and wimmen [sic] 
and dont really care one way or 
another whether they win or 
lose, is pure fantasy, at least as 
far as the swimming team is con
cerned and as far as I have deter
mined in my acquaintances with 
other varsity athletes. Sure, ath
letes can be found working out 
on a bar stool, but almost cer
tainly not at a critical time, such 
as the night before a meet or 
game. Remember, athletes are as 
human as anyone else, and use 
the same methods of relaxation 
and diversion. Any person who 
devotes so much of his time and 
effort to practice, as a varsity 
athlete does, has to be a highly 
competitive person who hates 
to lose.
In my associations with other 
varsity athletes, I have not found 
that it is such a rare individual 
indeed who is both an athlete 
and a scholar of outstanding 
ability. On the contrary, ath, 
letes have to be among the best 
scholars to maintain their studies
continued on page seven
an interest in the training and 
education in the arts with the 
development of careers and mar
kets for the artists. However, 
the question is inevitable posed, 
when we consider the increas
ing number of graduates who are 
pouring from our university fine 
arts faculties (and from our con
servatories and art schools), how 
will they be employed?
In this context, I would like 
to suggest a revision and possibly 
a redefinition of goals and pur
poses for what has been tradi
tionally considered as an institu
tion for the training and educat
ing in the arts.
The College as Art Centers
Colleges of fine arts should 
assume a greater role as art mak
ers and contributors of cultural 
activities for their own immedi
ate communities and society at 
large. This could happen without 
negating a commitment to a 
highest aesthetic standard in all 
phases of education and training 
activities ranging from classroom 
and studio work to public per
formances, exhibits, and pro 
jects.
Multiple Career Opportunities 
A college of fine arts should 
also understand and fully con
front its responsibility for the 
continuing development of its 
graduates who, when they are 
taught their individual disci
plines, should also learn the re
ciprocal relationships within the 
arts and the role of the aesthetic 
cognition in the process of hu
man civilization, and a method 
which makes further learning af
ter their graduation a normal 
function in their lives. Thus 
their career opportunities will 
multiply beyond the limitations 
of their early commitments. His
torically art programs offered 
teaching as an alternative career 
until market conditions revealed 
an oversupply in this area. A 
more complex approach to op
portunities is required.
It is not uncommon in vari
ous parts of the world for vis
ual artists to work in the film in
dustry; or architects to become 
theatre designers; or actors to alernate between many theatrical 
functions in theatre ensembles, 
especially when such ensembles 
are collectively owned and man
aged by their members; or for 
graphic designers to become de
signers of space and objects in 
consumer goods industries; or 
musicians to play active manag
erial roles in their organizations. 
Research and Development
The third function is to 
assume the role of research and 
development institution in the 
arts. Graduates should be able 
on the basis of their fundament
al training to simultaneously 
contribute to the professions as 
they exist at the time of their 
graduation and to react with 
agility to changes as well as 
cause such changes and intro
duce innovations to the profes
sions.
It is imperative, in this re
definition, that the educational
function remain as the pivot of 
continued on page seven

---------------------------------------------------

announcements _______
_______________________________________ *
lamy YKTHE TARTAN-January ODFQEDW
The TARTAN will print announcements 
which it receives before the announced 
deadline (Wednesday, 12 noon) and which 
are presented in a dear (typed, double 
spaced preferred) manner. The criteria for 
selecting announcements for publication is 
as follows: 1) The event or announcement 
must be free and open to the whole (or 
majority) of the campus community;
2) The event or announcement must be of 
general interest and not for the benefit of 
a very limited sample of people. 
Because of space limitations, the 
TARTAN cannot guarantee placement of 
any announcement but will attempt in 
good faith to include all announcements 
which meet the above criteria.
On Friday evening, Jan. 30, in the hand
J19y Na2 h1R,e,119 1f eVy ry2 :w 1f 
lBeeJzR,mV Na2 pkV11g sRBgtBrm 1r 71,zyJ 
UxyrRyF eVy U9y,Bkar hBxBg NBzy,eByJ 
:rB1r 2Bgg Vaxy BeJ arrRag 9yyeBrmF zymBrL
rBrm 2BeV a JV1,e zRJBryJJ 9yyeBrm ae v o9w 
i,w P1Vr pVaegRk.F raeB1rag UwhwNw:w 
aee1,ryb VartgBrm JRBeJ amaBrJe eVy hwTwUw 
f1, xB1gaeB1r 1f o,BxakbF yekw 2Bgg zy eVy 
Joya.y, ae v-AGw TenJ f,yyw p19y a9aBrm 
art aga,9Brm eVBrmJ Vaxy zyyr k19Brm f,19 
pyrae1, hVR,kVnJ Vya,BrmJ Br eVBJ fBygt art 
eVy,y VaJ zyyr 9RkV 91,y Br ydykReBxy JyJL
JB1rw 6VBJ BJ a kVarky e1 fBrt 1Re art e1 
k1rJBty, 2Vae e1 t1w
Students interested in participating in Psy
kV1g1mb ydoy,B9yreJ f1, fRr art o,1fBeF 
kagg lJbkV1g1mb cyoa,e9yreF SdeyrJB1r 
ODD 1, ODE 1, Jyy iR,Byg Br sa.y, Cagg 
AYOIhw pRz5ykeJ 2Bgg zy oaBt 3OwGG oy, 
V1R,w
Mortar Board will conduct a program on
0,atRaey pkV11gF 6RyJtabF 7yz,Ra,b ODeV 
ae D-AG o9 Br eVy pch ,119 1f i1,y211t 
0a,tyrJw Ugg kR,,yre 9y9zy,J JV1Rgt aeL
eyrtw Ugg 5RrB1,J 2BeV a kR9RgaeBxy m,aty 
o1Bre axy,amy 1f AwO; 1, az1xy 2V1 a,y BrL
ey,yJeyt Br 9y9zy,JVBo Br i1,ea, s1a,t 
QEDWIQEDD a,y 2ygk19y e1 aeeyrtw
The legal, technological, and social prob
gy9J Brx1gxyt Br eVy tyxyg1o9yre 1f yrL
xB,1r9yreag o1gBkb 2Bgg zy eVy JRz5yke 1f 
a oRzgBk f1,R9 e1 zy Vygt ae ha,rymByIiygI 
g1r :rBxy,JBeb 1r [ytryJtabF ParRa,b Ov 
ae D-AG o9w
6Vy f1,R9 2Bgg BrkgRty a oaryg tBJkRJJB1r 
1f eVyJy BJJRyJ zb oRzgBk ReBgBeb k199BJL
JB1ry, Cygyr 4nsarr1rF yrmBryy,Brm o,1L
fyJJ1, H1zy,e cRrgaoF art VBJe1,Bar 
pa9Ryg CabyJw 6Vy fyaeR,yt Joya.y, 2Bgg 
zy Pa,1 iabtaF tB,yke1, 1f eVy TrJeBeRey f1, 
l1gBkb peRtByJ art Na2 ae eVy :rBxy,JBeb 1f 
lRy,e1 HBk1w
The University of Pittsburgh Japanese Club
2Bgg JV12 86Vy 6V,1ry 1f sg11t"F eVy PaoL
aryJy xy,JB1r 1f pVa.yJoya,ynJ iakzyeVF 1r 
[ytryJtabF Parw Ovw Ut9BJJB1r BJ f,yyw 71, 
tyeaBgyt Brf1,9aeB1rF k1reake c,w ikc1rL
agt 1, Cygyr 011t9ar ae WOYI;;Wv 1, 
hVRk. H1zy,eJ ae WvDIQDGW 'afey, ;-GGjw
"Yoga, Food and Health" is the topic of a
f,yy oRzgBk gykeR,y e1 zy Vygt 6RyJtab 
yxyrBrm ParRa,b OD ae D-AG o9 ae eVy lBee 
Urryd sRBgtBrmF k1,ry, pyrr1ee art s1RL
>Rye pe,yyeJ Br 4a.gartw ia,JVagg C1,rI 
JeyBr 2Bgg zy eVy Joya.y,w lgyaJy z,Brm a 
zgar.ye f1, a JV1,e Bre,1tRkeB1r e1 b1ma 
o1JeR,yJ art yae gBmVegb zyf1,y aeeyrtBrmw 
po1rJ1,yt zb Urarta ia,ma ^1ma p1kByeb 
art eVy py9ogy pe,yye 711t h1I4ow
Mortar Board Candidates - Don't forget
eVy m,atRaey JeRtyre Jy9Bra, 1r 6RyJtabF 
ParRa,b OD Br eVy pch ,119 Br i1,y211t 
0a,tyrJ ae D-AGw 0,atRaey JeRtyreJ f,19 
9arb tyoa,e9yreJ 1f hi: 2Bgg mBxy eVyB, 
eV1RmVeJ 1r m,atRaey JeRtByJw
Premedical students: The CMU Premedical
UtxBJ1,b h199Beeyy VaJ a,,armyt a e1R, 1f 
eVy fakBgBeByJ 1f eVy :rBxy,JBeb 1f lBeeJzR,mV 
pkV11g 1f iytBkBry ae O-GG o9 1r 7,BtabF 
ParRa,b AGF QEDWw Te BJ a JoykBag e1R, f1, 
hi: JeRtyreJ 2V1 JV1Rgt m1 e1 H119 
A;YF pkaBfy Cagg ae lBeew 6VBJ zRBgtBrm BJ ae 
eVy e1o 1f cyp1e1 pe,yye rya, eVy lBee 
peatBR9w 4R, V1Je 2Bgg zy c,w Ugzy,e Tw 
NarJBrmF cB,yke1, 1f l,y9ytBkag UffaB,Jw
Project Upward Bound at Carnegie-Mellon
:rBxy,JBeb BJ Jo1rJ1,Brm a O tab ha,yy,IStI 
RkaeB1r pb9o1JBR9 ae p.Bz1 CaggF hi: 
ka9oRJ 1r ParRa,b OE art AGF QEDWF f1, 
agg VBmV JkV11g 5RrB1, art JyrB1, JeRtyreJw 
4r 6VR,JtabF ParRa,b OEF f,19 E-GG a9 e1 
;-GG o9 eVy Jb9o1JBR9 2Bgg Brx1gxy ,yo,yL
JyreaeBxyJ art ydVBzBeJ f,19 9a51, lBeeJL
zR,mV BrtRJe,ByJF k1,o1,aeB1rJF ytRkaeB1rag 
BrJeBeReB1rJ art o,Bxaey zRJBryJJyJw 4r 7,BL
tabF ParRa,b AGF eVy,y 2Bgg zy J9agg m,1Ro 
tBJkRJJB1rJ f1, BrtBxBtRagJ oR,JRBrm ka,yy,J 
Br BrtRJe,bF akaty9Bk BrJeBeReB1rJ art o,BL
xaey zRJBryJJyJw
CBmV JkV11g JyrB1,J art 5RrB1,J I Tf b1R 
Vaxy arb >RyJeB1rJ ae agg az1Re arb eboy 1f 
ka,yy,F ogyaJy aeeyrt(
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon Forum Ser
ByJ o,yJyreJhUM ^4: hUM4S I TM U hSL
iSM6 hUM4S) 1r 6VR,JtabF ParRa,b OE 
ae QO-AG o9 Br eVy [Vy,,yee H119F p.Bz1w 
pgBtyJF ty91rJe,aeB1r art tBJkRJJB1r 1f 
1ry 1f hi:nJ 91,y BrmyrB1RJ ydoy,B9yreJw 
sygByxy Be 1, r1eF eVyb fg1aew 6Vy 9yr 2V1 
8JR,xBxyt eVy ydoy,Byrky8 a,y Vy,y e1 eygg 
RJ V12 eVyb tBt Bel,1fw St !,1.1J.b art 
l,1fw hVa,gyJ 011tJoyytF cyoeF 1f hBxBg 
SrmBryy,Brmw s,Brm b1R, gRrkV art a f,Byrtw 
po1rJ1,yt zb ha9oRJ l,1m,a9 lgarrBrmw
Premeds and other Health Profession
JeRtyreJ6Vy ryde gykeR,y Br eVy iytI? 
u1gRreyy,J NykeR,y py,ByJ ae pVatbJBty 
C1JoBeag 2Bgg zy Vygt ae D-AG o9 1r 6VR,JL
tabF ParRa,b OEF Br eVy pVatbJBty C1JoBeag 
iaBr URtBe1,BR9w c,w caxBt !ae 2Bgg 
Joya. 1r 84zJeye,BkJ0bryk1g1mbw8 Tr eVBJ 
Jy,ByJ Joya.y,J 2Bgg tBJkRJJ JRkV eVBrmJ aJ 
eVyB, e,aBrBrm art ytRkaeB1rF a eboBkag tab 
Br eVy o,akeBky 1f eVyB, fBygtF art eVyB, 
oa,eBkRga, JaeBJfakeB1rJ Br eVyB, o,1fyJJB1rw 
la,.Brm 2Bgg zy f,yy Br eVy oa,.Brm ma,amy 
Bf b1R Vaxy b1R, oa,.Brm eBk.ye xagBtaeyt 
zb eVy pVatbJBty C1JoBeag u1gRreyy,nJ 
4ffBkyw Ugg Brey,yJeyt JeRtyreJ art fakRgeb 
a,y BrxBeytw pyy UwPw pe,yBffF cC OQQYF f1, 
tyeaBgJw
"SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND HU
iUM uUN:SpnnF a ; oa,e f1,R9F 1oyrJ 
[ytryJtabF ParRa,b Ov ae D-AG o9 Br eVy 
[Vy,,ye H119F p.Bz1w c,w Pa,1 iabtaF 
cB,yke1, 1f eVy TrJeBeRey f1, l1gBkb peRtByJ 
art Na2 ae eVy :rBxy,JBeb 1f lRy,e1 HBk1F 
2Bgg Joya. 1r 8iaramBrm eVy Sk1JbJey98w 
larygBJeJ f1, eVBJ yxyrBrmnJ o,1m,a9 a,y 
H1zy,e cRrgaoF h1IhVaB,oy,J1r 1f SrmBL
ryy,Brm art lRzgBk UffaB,J ae hi:# pa9Ryg 
CabyJF cyoa,e9yre 1f CBJe1,b ae eVy :rBL
xy,JBeb 1f lBeeJzR,mV# Cygyr 4nsarr1rF 
UJJ1kBaey cyarF ha,rymBy TrJeBeRey 1f 
6ykVr1g1mb ae hi:w po1rJ1,yt zb ha9L
oRJ l,1m,a9 lgarrBrm# l,1m,a9 1r pkByrky 
art CR9arBeByJ# l,1m,a9 1r p1kByeb art 
6ykVr1g1mbw 7,yy# 1oyr e1 eVy oRzgBkw
"AMERICAN WAY OF DEATH", a 6 part
Jy,ByJF zymBrJ eVBJ yxyBrm 2BeV .ybr1ey 
Joya.y, c,w carByg ik0RB,y aReV1, 1f 
cyaeV zb hVarkyF cyaeV zb hV1BkyF 2V1 
2Bgg tBJkRJJ 8Ur U9y,Bkar ly,JoykeBxy 1r 
cyaeV8w 71, k19ogyey Brf1,9aeB1r 1r eVy 
Jy,ByJF z,1kVR,yJ a,y axaBgazgy ae eVy p.Bz1 
Trf1,9aeB1r cyJ.w
po1rJ1,yt zb ha9oRJ l,1m,a9 lgarrBrmF 
snraB sn,BeV CBggyg Py2BJV :rBxy,JBeb hyrL
ey,F :rBxy,JBeb art hBeb iBrBJe,ByJw
7,yy# 1oyr e1 eVy oRzgBkw
RECREATIONAL VOLLEYBALL - THE
hi: u4NNS^sUNN hN:s 2Bgg 1ffy, arL
1eVy, x1ggybzagg JyJJB1r eVBJ pRrtabF 7yzw 
ae QG-GG a9 Br eVy 9aBr mb9w Ugg 9y9zy,J 
1f eVy ka9oRJ k199RrBeb a,y BrxBeyt e1 
51Br RJw MyeJ art zaggJ 2Bgg zy o,1xBtytw 
iy9zy,J 1f eVy hi: [19yrnJ ua,JBeb art 
hi: iyrnJ hgRz 6ya9J 2Bgg zy eVy,y e1 
aJJBJe art 1ffy, BrJe,RkeB1rw P1Br RJ f1, 
J19y ydy,kBJy art fRrw
The Pittsburgh Association for the Arts
Br StRkaeB1r art 6Vy,aob 2Bgg V1gt BeJ 
fB,Je 9yye5rm 1f eVy bya, 1r 6VR,JtabF 
7yz,Ra,b QO f,19 D-AGIE-AG o9 ae ha,g12 
h1ggymynJ !,yJmy 6Vyaey,w [Bry art kVyyJy 
2Bgg zy Jy,xyt zyf1,y eVy 9yyeBrmw U JoykBag 
o,1m,a9 zb ia,m1 N1xygaky 2Bgg zy oa,e 1f 
eVy yxyrBrmw iJw N1xygakyF f1Rrty, art 
tB,yke1, 1f eVy N1xygaky ia,B1ryeeyJF 2Bgg 
Joya. 1r eVy e1oBk86Vy TrfBrBey ua,ByeByJ 
1f lgabw" Ugg lUUS6 9y9zy,J art yeVy, 
Brey,yJeyt oy,J1rJ a,y yrk1R,amyt e1 aeeyrt 
eVBJ 9yyeBrmF 'oa,.Brm BJ axaBgazgy Br eVy 
ka9oRJ ,ya, g1ej
The spring Sleeping Bag campaigns are
JkVytRgyt f1, Uo,Bg Y art ; art Uo,Bg QQ 
art QOw Tf b1Rnt gB.y e1 V1Je a JeRtyreF 
Jy,xy 1r eVy ogarrBrm k199BeeyyF 1, fBrt 
1Re 91,y az1Re eVy ka9oaBmrJF ogyaJy Je1o 
zb eVy Ut9BJJB1rJ 4ffBkyF fB,Je fg11,F [a,L
ry, CaggF art eag. 2BeV 0aby 1, cyzzByw
Resident Assistant applications for the
QEDWIQEDD JkV11g bya, a,y axaBgazgy Br eVy 
HyJBtyrky NBfy 4ffBkyw Ugg Brey,yJeyt JeRL
tyreJ JV1Rgt oBk. Ro eVyB, aoogBkaeB1rJ art 
,yeR,r eVy9 zb 7yz,Ra,b ;F QEDWw lgyaJy 
k19y Br oy,J1r 2Vyr ,yeR,rBrm b1R, k19L
ogyeyt aoogBkaeB1r J1 ar aoo1Bre9yre 2BeV 
eVy HyJBtyre UJJBJeare Cyat art eVy cyar 
1f HyJBtyrky NBfy kar zy a,,armytw
The Oakland Review will meet Tues., Jan.
OD ae D o9 in H9w ;A p.Bz1w
For the 1976-77 academic year, the Finan
cial Aid Office will NOT be mailing renew
al forms to current aid recipients. All stu
dents, those who are currently receiving 
aid, as well as any other student who 
would like to apply for aid for >976-77, ^ 
must obtain those forms directly from the 
Financial Aid Office, 215 V^arner Hall. All 
material will be available beginning Decem
ber 15, 1975.
Classified
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
your time per week.
Donate Plasma at Sera-Tec Biologicals 
3407 Forbes Ave. (Nextto Arby's in Oak
land). Operr8:45 am - 7:00 pm Mon-Thurs. 
8:45 am - 4:00 pm Fri. Phone 682-3190
Majoring in Math, Computer Science (
lVbJBkJF 1, SrmBryy,Brm) [are a pkV1ga,L
JVBo) hagg WOYIWAEWWAEDw
Personals
Dick Plymouth Hudson Rock Lives! ^
The TECH FLYING CLUB would like to
eVar. 4ffBky py,xBkyJ f1, VygoBrm e1 9a.y 
1R, fB,Je 9yyeBrm 1f eVy Jy9yJey, a JRkkyJJw
Ride to Washington D.C. (any weekend)
21Rgt zy m,yaegb aoo,ykBaeytw [Bgg JVa,y 
ydoyrJyJw hagg ParyF ;OQIvGEDw *JAMJAR/
: :i 29
0 Can You Canoe
In A Cement Canoe?
[y harl,1fw St !,1.1J.bF lVbJBkJ
l,1fw hVa,gyJ 011tJoyytF 
1 hBxBg SrmBryy,Brm
12:30 Wherrett Room 
Bring Lunch And A Friend
po1rJ1,yt zb hi: ha9oRJ l,1m,a9 lgarrBrm

---------------------------------------------------

6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODFQEDWIlamy ;
Cyert Announces Balanced Budget
By Charles Mitch
President Richard M. Cyert gave a State 
of the University address to the faculty last 
Wednesday, January 21. Cyert reported 
that once again the university has a bal
anced budget for the coming fiscal year but 
stressed the importance of increasing pri
vate donations in order to allow the univ
ersity to remain in the black.
Cyert announced a budget of $47 mil
lion, up from last years $45 million. While 
some high priority areas have actually 
received an increase in their budgets, Cyert 
emphasized the overall tightness of the 
budget, commenting the budget cant be 
cut back further without hurting the pro
grams involved. An effort for additional 
fund raising is needed, Cyert stated.
He went on to discuss the difficulties 
encountered in fund raising, saying that 
fund raising requires a great deal of pa
tience. He described how often, many vi
sits must be made to a potential donor, and 
even then a contribution of a large sum of 
money cant be counted on.
Some statistics show just how important 
donations are to the universitys financial 
well being. Over $3 million in unrestricted 
donations are depended on by the univer
sity in order to balance the education and 
general operating (E &G0) budget. With
out such donations, tuition would have to 
be increased by an additional $200 dollars
over the previously announced increase. 
Cyert commented that he didnt like being 
so dependent on donations for balancing 
the budget and he announced that he in
tends to establish a reserve fund to allow 
less dependence on unrestricted donations.
 In commenting on fund raising Cyert, 
also stressed the need for diversifying the 
sources of donations. He reported that 
progress is slow, but progress is being 
made. He announced that several major 
donations have been made to the university
President Cyert, "fiscal solvency is not an end in 
itself, but a means to excellency."
Students Experience the Modern Semester
by Laurie Trask
The way people lived in a period, they 
experienced everthing at once. Thats what 
were trying to do. This, in Dr. Concetta 
Greenfields nutshell, is the moving philos
ophy behind the Modern Semester. A spec
ial, interdisciplinary program, the Modern 
Semester explores aspects of modernism in 
literature, art, films, history, psychology, 
and science.
Last year, CMU received a grant from 
the Carnegie Corporation for creation of 
innovative learning programs. Dr. Green
field, along with Professor Peggy Knapp of 
the English department, wrote up propo
sals for both the Medieval (which took 
place last semester) and the Modern Semes
ters. We need to look at things . . . Not 
only through single disciplines, like study 
the literature of one period and the history 
of another . . . But with a unified ap
proach Dr. Greenfield explained. One 
focal point was the idea of role-playing.
Role-playing has become a very import
ant part of these interdisciplinary semes
ters. Last semester, students researched
what it was like to live over seven hundred 
years ago. Then, they chose a certain role 
to become expert in. These roles were used 
to help gain a greater understanding of 
the period. Students acted out these roles 
in classroom plays, and at last semesters 
successful Medieval Banquet. This semes
ter, however, the role-playing will be car
ried one step further.
A student will assume the role of a 
(specific) person, for example, D.H. Law
rence, who lived at the time . . . The stu
dent will read what the person wrote, how 
he lived . . . And, in class, we will have 
things like . .. authors meeting together in 
Gertrude Steins salon ... When asked if 
the rest of the college community would 
see these reenactments, Dr. Greenfield 
replied, We will have presentations put on 
about these different figures.
Other events, open to the public, which 
will occur in conjunction with the Modern 
Semester, are a series of three movies, fol
lowed by discussions. Tentatively, these 
modernistic movies will be The Seagull 
by Chekov, Jean Cocteaus Orpheus, and
D.H. Lawrences Women in Love.
GOIN'DUNTUN

by Laurie Trask
It was apparent Sunday afternoon that 
something big was up. Every TV set on 
campus had people crowded around, 
watching a (Such blasphemy!)....I mean, 
the football game. But the folks at CMU 
had a very special interest in Super Bowl 
X: Would the Pittsburgh Steelers do it
again?
They did. The Steelers were the proud 
owners of not one, but two Super Bowl 
victories, an exciting 21-17 victory over the 
Cowboys from Dallas. Id watched the 
fourth quarter with great interest, under
standing that I hadnt missed much. 
But,. there was one thing I was deter
mined not to miss. That was, of course, 
the big celebration duntun afterwards. 
So, I hopped into an already over-crowded
and several more are currently being nego
tiated,  ranging in size from $1 million up 
to eight figures. Among the donations 
made was a $1 million contribution from 
the estate of Uncus A. Whitaker to be 
used for the creation of a chair in Compu
ter Science to be named after the donor. A 
similar U.A. Whitaker professorship in 
Electrical Engineering already exists.
In his speech Cyert repeated the goals 
he had set for the university when he be
came president in 1972. He declared that he 
did not accept the presidency in order to 
balance the budget but to make CMU 
into one of the top universities in the coun
try, adding that when he took over as pre
sident he didnt think it was. He went on 
to say that fiscal solvency is not an end 
in itself but a meansto excellency.
A need for planning for academic excel
lence was cited by the president and he
discussed how a long range planning com
mittee had been established in order to 
meet that need. The importance of parti
cipation by all members of the university 
in the making of these plans was empha
sized by Dr. Cyert.
He also discussed another of his con
cerns when he first became president, the 
lack of an intellectual atmosphere on cam
pus. Cyert commented that he felt CMU 
didnt have a broad enough range of visi
tors and seminars and that there was a lack 
of interaction between students and facul
ty. He then described campus programming 
which has been set up through Dean Swank 
and Sue Christian of Student Activities in 
order to handle this problem.
Cyert also expressed a past concern over 
the absence of educational innovation at 
CMU. In order to develop innovation the 
university received a $300 million grant 
over three years from the Carnegie Corpo
ration. Some of the projects which have 
been developed with this money include 
self-paced education, the plato computer 
system, and the medieval semester.
WRCT Goes Top 40
station wagon (by one estimate, 13 of us in 
all) for the trip to Liberty Avenue.
We made it at about six, to find about 
1,000 fans and almost that many (it 
seemed) cops milling around. Cars were 
parading down the street, waving streamers 
and honking their horns. People called out 
from windows Were number one!! and 
shook hands with those on the sidewalk. 
Everyone was ready to have a good time: 
Fun, in other words.
People were encouraged by the police 
to stay on the sidewalks, but, as the crowd 
continued to grow, this became impossible 
and the Liberty Avenue area was closed to 
traffic. People walking around Pittsburgh 
in 18 degree weather passed around beer, 
cheered and waved banners for the Stee
lers. Whereas the Steelers themselves were 
probably out partying in warm Florida.
by Paul Smith
Dave Simpson, Program Director of 
WRCT, the Student Radio Station, an
nounced that WRCT would be gradually 
changing its format from progressive 
rock to Top Forty by the time of 
Spring Carnival. Even though several DJs 
are unhappy over the direction the station 
is taking (after Spring Carnival, the week
day format will gradually change back to 
progressive rock). The changes will not 
only involve shifting from Progressive 
Rock, but also to 3 hour specialty shows 
on the weekend, such as, Disco, Request, 
Country Folk, Classical, and there is a pro
posal to have a French Program done by 
one of the French Teachers that would
place for two reasons, said Simpson, 
first we have to prepare the DJs for 
Spring Carnival when they will be playing 
top Forty, since as they will be outside, 
they cannot play a long light Jazz piece. 
Also we will be preparing the audience for 
the new sound, since you cannot be 
playing one kind one day, and the next 
another and expect to keep your listen
ers. I hope that with the specialty shows 
we will be able to keep some of our DJs 
happy who wont be comfortable with the 
new programming, but also to please the 
widest possible audience. In fact with our 
new style well be playing something for 
everyone, with the exception of 2,000 
year old Egyptian long songs.
Some of the DJs whome the TARTAN 
spoke to expressed regret over the shift
Sol Marcus working on new WRCT master control
have French music, news, and cultural events featured. However, the main sound 
during the week, Monday through Friday 
will be Top Forty, which will mean that 
the DJs will have to become personalities 
and do more than just occasionally an
nounce the title of a song. They will have 
to be able to speak and think coherently 
for 20 minutes instead of the current three 
minutes per hour. The changes are taking
TV cameras, representing all the local sta
tions, as well as the national networks 
were out in force, to cover The Second 
Annual, Official Steeler Super Bowl 
Victory Party.
For me, at least, the party atmosphere 
was soon lost.
I remember being up in Massachusetts 
and watching TV coverage of the (infa
mous) Pirates World Series and The 
First Annual, Official Steeler Super Bowl 
Victory parties, and thinking what a
bunch of crazy folk lived in Pittsburgh. 
Compared to those, this years celebration 
was mild and orderly. The entire time I 
was down there, I didnt see one window 
broken, one car overturned, or one cop 
physically attacked.
continued on page thirteen
room board.Photo by Jim Johnson
to Top Forty, since they do not believe 
there is enough talent on hand to become 
the personality which is required for that 
kind of music. One DJ even went so far as 
to suggest that the Station will be wasting 
the $10,000 which Student Senate gave 
them since no one on campus wants to 
listen to a second rate 13Q, and no one is 
listening right now anyway. To illustrate 
his point he cited the time he offered to 
give away some record which he didnt 
even have, if some one would call him 
up, and no one called! However, even this 
DJ says he will stay on and try his best 
to make WRCT work.
Finally, in addition to the new sound, 
WRCT is the first student organization to 
enable the students to receive credit for 
any work they do. All electrical work done 
at the station, from designing a Master 
Control Board down to wiring it, will re
ceive EE credit if approved by the new 
Faculty advisor, Frank Quick. The credit 
may range from a high of 6 units for a 
senior designing a Master Control Board, 
down to a single unit for a Freshman re
wiring some equipment at the station. In 
these and in other minor ways WRCT 
hopes to improve itself, and further servt 
the student community.

---------------------------------------------------

lamy WK6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODFQEDW
Konopka Addresses Board
continued from page one 
pus considering a new Student Senate con
stitution and questioned the administration 
on its plans for Skibo. Konopka also ex
pressed satisfaction with the job being 
done by the Security Department but com
mented that they were working with inade
quate funds.
President Richard Cyert responded to 
Konopkas charge that students were un
happy about the fact that they could not 
understand their instructors, saying that 
students have to talk to Department Heads 
or Deans since Warner Hall doesnt make 
teaching assignments.
Konopka urged the Athletics Depart
ment to prepare and publicize a list of pri
orities and also expressed an interest in 
knowing exactly what the $100,000 
Alumni Athletic Fund was being used for. 
Konopka ended his presentation with a
Dean Crecine, "Liberal education is currently 
under a great pressure to change."
personal observation, stating that he has 
learned to agree with Dr. Cyerts conten
tion that thfe major function of the Stu
dent Government President is to collect 
opinions of students since once he lets the 
administration know about student con
cerns they can act on them; The admin
istration is happy because they know what 
the students want, the students are happy 
because their problems are solved and Im 
happy because I may get re-elected.
Other issues dealt with by the Board 
included raising graduate tuition to a Uni
versity wide level of $3300/year, approving 
the 1976-77 budget and hearing a presenta
tion by Professor Robert Slack, Chairman 
of the Faculty*Senate.
This meeting of the Trustees was unique 
in that the Board had voted as its first 
agenda item to allow a TARTAN reporter 
to attend and cover this and future meet
ings. This is the first time in recent CMU 
history that a member of the campus press 
had been allowed to be at a meeting of the 
Board.
CCCP Picks Pres.
The Carnegie Commuter Council of 
Pittsburgh (CCCP) held its first election in 
two and one-half years, last Thursday and 
Friday.
Outgoing President Paul Smith an
nounced that George Bachner, a Junior 
Chemistry major, was elected President; 
Jim Miller, Financial Secretary; and Ron 
Prengaman, Dennis P. Mamning, Harvey 
Hinch, Mike Kristefic, and James Finkel 
were elected to the Executive Board.
Smith asserted that since last fall Ive 
been trying to put together an organiza
tion almost single-handedly. With ths elec
tion I feel that the task is almost complete. 
I am hoping that George Bachner will try 
to carry out some of the programs which 
Ive been working on.
An example of the projects planned by 
the CCCP include producing a carpool 
list (promised for next week) and adapting 
the Skibo Commuter Room so as to better 
satisfy the needs of commuting students.
Counseling CouncilLit. Imagination Dropped
continued from page one
students set up their class schedules, 
but also to attempt to answer such ques
tions as where am I going? and other 
future-career oriented concerns.
Thirdly, this Council will serve as a 
clearing house. It will distribute infor
mation concerning new courses and admi
nistrative actions to the departments con
cerned and to the students so as to prevent 
shocks due to the rumor mill.
Cohn feels that the Council, being in its 
infant stages, is a flexible operation. 
Presently it deals only with CMU under
graduate concerns, but graduate problems 
could probably be added to the Councils 
workload in the future. The question of 
student representation has not been for
mally considered by the group. Cohn says
he and Dean Swank see no reason why 
there shouldnt be student representatives 
on the committee. The question is who to 
pick? He feels that the students qualifi
cation would not lie in the groups which 
they represent, but in their commitment to 
the ideals of the council. He even suggests 
that truly interested CMU students contact 
Dean Swank concerning representation in 
this group.
This Council has no specific ideas 
concerning its three main areas of study. 
Cohn says that it will try to meet the 
needs of individual students. He hopes 
that the students themselves will become 
more interested in extra-curricular acti
vities, such as student government, and 
clubs, rather than restricting themselves 
to academic study.
by Joan Konkle
Because of the poor quality of writing 
done by so many students at CMU, fresh
men English next year will not be the Lit
erary Imagination, with its variety of 
courses, but instead it will be one course 
that will concentrate on expository 
writing. Those students who can demon
strate that they are capable writers will 
not have to take the course. It is estimated, 
however, that only about 10% of the in
coming freshmen class will be able to do 
this.
This is due to the fact that during the 
past two or three years the writing ability 
of college students all over the country has 
drastically declined. Several probable rea
sons for this are that teachers are not being 
trained to teach writing properly, students 
take too many of the non-traditional and 
often rather frivolous courses now being 
offered in many high schools, and that 
with so many other forms of entertain
ment, students do too little reading.
An English Department committee, 
chaired by Professor Miles and composed
of six faculty members and three grad
uate students with experience in teaching, 
is presently deciding how the course can 
most effectively help students with their 
writing weaknesses. By the end of the 
semester it will reach its decision about 
how the English Department can best go 
about solving this very difficult, but un
fortunately almost universal problem.
SCIENCE 
TECHNOLOGY 
HUMAN VALUES
Managing the Ecosystem
January 28 Jaro Mayda, Director,
Institute for Policy Studies and Law,
University of Puerto Rico
People, Machines and Productivity
February 11 Donald Burnham, Vice-Chalrperson,
National Commission on Productivity
Economics as if People Mattered
February 25 (a discussion of Small is Beautiful by 
E. F. Schumacher) Hazel Henderson, Co-Directeur, Princeton 
Center for Alternative Futures
Machines and Values
March 10 (a discussion of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle 
Maintenance by R. N. Pirsig) Leon Harmon, Department of Bio-Medical Engineering, Case Western Reserve
Computing and Thinking
March 31 (a discussion of computer usage and its effect on peoples self image) Allen Newell, University Professor, Carnegie-Mellon University
A forums are on Wednesaay evenings at 7:3C pm in the Wherrett Poot, Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning Progragg pn Sciencejpf#Humanities Program on Society and Technology 
Free; Open to the Public. *v  ;
. &--+ -*-T% w%n  I IFx

---------------------------------------------------

[u&) iBta ,yB ,Bfe U6 )f, 1
6CS 6UH6UMKParRa,b ODF QEDWKlamy D
The TOP
continued from page three
these three major functions. Only through 
an interaction between teaching as provi
ded by professionals who practice their 
arts and learning by students who have 
talent and trainability, will a college of 
fine arts be able to meet the challenges im
plied in the revision of its role. The work 
of the faculty, internal or external, will 
always indicate the quality of teaching. 
And the performance of the students will 
lead to a judgement on the quality of 
learning.
A redefinition of functions and goals 
for a college of fine arts will not only
augment career opportunities for its 
graduates, it will also establish stronger 
bridges between the arts-in-the-university and the arts-in-the world, which in 
turn, will make the art professions more 
dependent on the educational institu
tions for new and exciting ideas and a 
constant flow of well trained young 
talents.
Moreover, challenges and higher stan
dards will become instrumental in an 
evolutionary process which will prevent an 
aimless rush on the arts and reduce, hope
fully opportunist and expedient actions 
taken by many enrollment troubled 
institutions.
Akram Midani 
Dean, College of Fine Arts
Varsity Sports
A RECENT HARRIS POLL ON AMERICANS AND THE ARTS
Highlights from a survey of a public opinion on the Americans and the Arts conducted 
late 1974 by the National Research Center of the Arts, Inc., an affiliate of Louis Harris 
Associates, Inc.
Participation in Artistic Activities
* Two out of five Americans currently engage in woodworking, weaving, pottery, cer
amics, or other crafts; another one out of five, representing approximately 26.2 million 
Americans, does not currently engage in crafts but would like the opportunity to do so.
* One out of five Americans currently plays a musical instrument. An additional one 
in four -- about 34.9 million Americans, said they would like to play a musical instru
ment.
* One out of six Americans currently paints, draws, or sculpts; another one in six, 
representing about 21.8 million Americans, said they would like to do any one of these 
activities.
* One out of ten Americans currently writes poetry or does other creative writing, and 
another 7 percent -- representing approximately 10.2 million people -- would like to en
gage in creative writing.
* Nearly one out of ten Americans currently sings in a choir or other group and more 
than that number, about 16 million Americans, would like to.
* 3 percent of Americans currently play in an orchestra, band, or other musical group, 
and more than twice that many -- 7 percent or 10.2 million Americans -- would like to.
* 2 percent of Americans currently work with a theatrical group, but five times that 
many -- 10 percent or 14.5 million people - would like to.
All signs point to greater involvement in arts and culture on the part of the entire popula
tion:
* 45 percent felt that they are more interested in the arts and culture than their par
ents were.
* 44 percent felt they were about as interested as their parents.
* 6 percent said they were less interested.
Attitudes Toward Professions in the Arts
The American public has considerable respect for those who devote themselves full time 
to the arts in a professional capacity. At the outset of the interview, before its cultural 
content was apparent, people were asked the level of respect (a great deal," "some, 
1, "not much respect") they had for professionals in a variety of fields. The highest levels 
1f respect were accorded to doctors, scientists, schoolteachers, and policemen. Yet pro
fessional musicians outranked both bankers and businessmen in terms of public respect 
f1, their professions: 55 percent of the public registered "a great deal" of respect for 
musicians, compared with 46 percent for bankers and 45 percent for businessmen. On a 
oa, with bankers and businessmen came painters and sculptors and architects and city 
planners.
Moreover, when asked whether they would like to see their own children have a career in 
the arts ("say, as a musician or painter"), 50 percent responded positively (49 percent of 
whites and 59 percent of nonwhites). Only one in five Americans would be opposed to 
a career in the arts for their children, mostly because of their concern about financial 
difficulties.
continued from page three 
while participating in a varsity sport. Sure, 
there are the traditional dumb Jocks, 
but they are outnumbered by the athlete 
who excells in his studies. Athletics and 
scholastic aptitude are not mutually exclu
sive. The person who says he wont have 
time to study if he goes out for a sport is 
really saying that he doesnt want to make 
the sacrifices necessary to participate in the 
sport; loss of leisure time, being tired after 
practice, etc. and the team is better off 
without him anyway. Most of the varsity 
swimmers are also good students, as evi
denced by the fact that the swimming 
team has an average q.p.a. of about 3.2, 
and in fact the student who is number one 
in C.I.T. going into his last semester is on 
the swimming team. Our practices are 
run in such a manner that if a 'swimmer 
has to miss a practice because of a class 
or heavy studies, there is no hassle.
Of the four options which Mr. Orndorff offers for the solution of the CMU 
athletics crisis, three are virtually worth
less. The option that CMU begin to recruit 
and go all-athletics, as Mr. Orndorff cor
rectly recognizes, is not the answer. The 
suggestion that varsity athletics be cut al
together is downright ridiculous. I have no 
figures on how many students participate 
in varsity athletics, or how many jobs 
depend on them, but this is not the im
portant point. The point is, it seems cruel 
to tell all the athletes that they cannot 
compete interscholastically anymore. In
tramurals are fine, but they just do not 
provide enough competition for some 
people. These are the people who are wil
ling and indeed eager to put in two or more 
hours a day to practice for a sport, and
then compete against a team from another 
school which has prepared similarly.
Perhaps the most thoughtless suggestion 
made by Mr. Orndorff is to phase out the 
sports which are consistent losers, and de
vote more resourses to those with-respec
table records. Besides the injustices to 
the athletes whose teams are phased out, 
there is an added consequence. This years 
swimming team, as neither Mr. Orndorff 
nor Elly Zimmerman, in her article in 
the Jan. 13 TARTAN, mentioned, is going 
to be excellent, especially compared to 
the teams fielded in the past years. This 
improvement was made possible by the 
presence of no less than eight swimmers 
not here one year ago who are making a big 
contribution to the team. If Mr. Orndorff 
had his way, the swimming team might 
have been phased out as our record has 
not been good in the past, and all this 
young talent would have been wasted.
The proper way to improve CMUs 
athletics is to begin recruiting on a small, 
cautious scale, with an eye towards acadeic as well as athletic prowess. In this 
manner we can improve our athletics 
without lowering our academic standards. 
Perhaps if some of the articles about our 
varsity teams with good records and big 
improvements, instead of concentrating on 
weaker teams, playing up their shortcom
ings, would encourage some support for 
our varsity athletes who give so much time 
and effort to represent the entire school, 
not themselves.
hi: ua,JBeb p2B99Brm 6ya9
Do You Know About 
Food Service Coupon Books?
UcuUM6U0SpSave 5% on Meals
Purchasing Power, Even When Your Funds 
Run Low
74H [C4iAnyone  Students, Staff or Faculty Members 
Any Individual Interested in a Reduction Food 
Expenditures at Any Food Service Facility.
UuUTNUsNSSkibo Room 201 
Book Store
COST:

---------------------------------------------------

lamy vK6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODFQEDWNational College News
MARGO ST. JAMES
HOOKER HOWLS ABOUT 
DISCRIMINATION
The star lady of the afternoon was 
Margo St. James, founder and chairmadame of COYOTE (Call Off Your 
Old Tired Ethics), an up-and-coming 
loose womens organization fighting 
for decriminalization of prositution.
Looking understandably weathered, 
but still feisty, the 38-year-old St. James 
was greeted by a raucous applause and 
scattered wolf-whistles. Anticipating the 
audiences first question, she admitted 
her status as a retired harlot. Im too 
busy talking about it to do it, St. James 
remarked.
The government is the worst pimp  
and the strongest, St. James decried. 
Prostitution laws are enforcement of 
one-sided monogamy, she continued, 
A man is considered virile if he has 
numerous experiences where a woman 
is thought of as cheap, vulgar, or dirty 
if she does.
St. James tried to dispel some of the 
myths surrounding hookers and the 
profession. They are not all lesbians 
and jaded despisers of men, she pointed 
out. Money is the biggest reason and 
adventure is the next. She also de
nounced the notion of the wealthy 
trollop, as prostitutes are subjected to 
wage drainage all down the line from 
bellhops, hotel owners, doctors and 
cops. The police either want a piece 
or money, she said.
Engaging in some legitimate inter
course with the audience, St. James was 
asked about the demand for male pros
titutes during a question and answer 
period. How often can a man work? 
she answered. Woman can work for 
$5 a trick, but a man turning $5 tricks 
would be burnt out.
Illuminating the audience as to the 
cost to the taxpayer in bringing a street
walker before the courts, St. James 
stated The cost of arresting a prostitute 
in San Francisco is $1,700 and since 
public prosecutors are used, the cost 
is about double. She added And if 
theyre customers theyre paying three 
times.
The audience was curious about the 
ins-and-outs of the business. What it 
comes down to is taking turns doing 
each other, the ex-call girl stated. 
Most women dont do flatbackers, 
she stated, adding, Sure we enjoy it 
if the customers good.
DAILY NEXUS 
University of California 
at Santa Barbara
COMMON MARKET FOR GRADS
A newly implemented Academic Com
mon Market will allow Florida graduate 
students to enroll in out-of-state univer
sities on an in-state tuition basis.
The program, which is sponsored by 
th Southern Regional Education Board,
is an interstate compact among Southern 
graduate schools to exchange programs 
that are otherwise unavailable to each
FLORIDA B LAM BEAU 
Florida State University
GREER DISCUSSES IWY
International Womens Year (IWY) has 
been ineffective due to lack of money 
and time, said Germaine Greer, author 
of The Female Eunuch.
Greer spoke to about 1,200 persons 
in C. Y. Stephens Auditorium. She re
counted observations and anecdotes 
from her world travels and from the 
IWY conference held this summer in 
Mexico City.
In spite of claims that women are 
treated humanely in other countries, 
Greer said that many times women are, 
in fact, mentally and physically abused.
Greer said she saw women in 
Morocco, India and Iran carrying heavy 
burdens, while at the same time being 
impeded by the veils and wide ankle 
bracelets they wore because of tradi
tion.
I also didnt realize that women had 
strong fears of castration of their own 
genitals. Women in Sudan undergo cir
cumcision, which involves anything from 
a simple nick on the clitoris, to complete 
removal of external genitals, she said.
According to Greer, the worst prob
lems at the conferences were those of 
communication  between the represen
tatives.
Most nations spent a lot of time talk
ing about the positive aspects of their 
countries, instead of discussing the 
problems of the women there.
For instance, much of the second 
day was spent discussing the good 
fortune of women who are born in Sri 
Lanca, she said. It was pretty hope
less.
Greer responded to a question about 
Alice Doesnt Day, the national strike 
day for women during a question-andanswer period after the speech.
It wasnt a bad idea, but it wasnt 
surprising that the efforts at a strike 
were invisible, she said.
Greer attributed the lack of participa
tion in the strike to lack of time and 
money to organize it. A strike fund 
should have been set up for women 
who might have lost their jobs, and the 
nation should have been canvassed for 
general acceptance of the idea, she 
said.
She also answered a question about 
the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). 
1 think it (ERA) will work, not be
cause of the wisdom of the government, 
but because of the extreme determina
tion of the women of this country.
A reporters response to Greers talk 
was that her desire to improve the 
rights of women in the world was in
spiring," and her presentation was
moving, forceful and balanced with 
charming humor. Yet, in the question 
and answer session, the reporter con
tinued. It was disappointing to see 
the tactic used of shouting men down 
and giving them theirs. That tactic can 
be used to make men open their ears 
and eyes. But when they are already at 
a lecture, its obvious theyre ready and 
willing to listen. Further attacks and 
denunciations only  turn people off.
Movements make progress with 
strength. The potential for success is 
increased as more persons  male and 
female  are persuaded to that side. To 
exclude men from the womens move
ment may have helped in its infancy. 
But in America, the movement has 
grown beyong the conceptual, talking 
stages.
Now is the time to include men in 
the sphere of confidence and reach their 
minds as human beings. To threaten 
men and shout them down does little 
to add them to the ranks.
IOWA STATE DAILY 
Iowa State University 
Ames, Iowa 
CHEATING GAINING FAVOR 
Cheating on college tests is:
A. Limited
B. Widely practiced
C. Looked down on
D. Glorified
E. All of the above
If you copied your neighbors answer 
to this question you are an average 
college student.
A marked increase in cheating has 
caused many college officials to take a 
new look at the traditional honors sys
tem of test taking. In a poll of Kansas 
University students, 45 per cent ad
mitted to cheating while at K. U. 
Seventy-five per cent of these people 
said the reason they cheated was be
cause of the institutions stress on 
grades.
There are two common types of cheat
ing and in their practice, cheaters polish 
their art to a point of finesse. The first 
type of cheating is cheat sheets, which 
consists of information written on small 
pieces of paper. These papers are then 
concealed in their hand, under the test, 
up their sleeve, taped onto a pencil, 
slid under a watchband, in socks tops, 
pants cuffs or any other secret easily 
accessible place. Cheat sheet informa
tion can also be written on hands, arms, 
desk tops, kleenex, shoe soles and 
matchbooks.
Copying is the second most common 
type of cheating. Obtaining answers 
from someone elses test requires a sly 
eye. The drawback in this type of cheat
ing is that you arent assured of the 
right answer. byG arSin
Cowley County Community College 
Arkansas City, Kansas 
SWING TO BUSINESS:
ECONOMY AFFECTS ENROLLMENT
Students are looking practically ahead 
to where the jobs are, Marie Hodge, 
assistant dean of the Bowling Green 
College of Business Administration 
said in explaining increased enrollment 
in business courses.
More and more students are picking 
up business courses to back up their 
majors. Hodge added that the account
ing and journalism departments have 
also experienced increases. To a large 
extent this increase has to do with the 
job market.
A new course at Bowling Green will 
focus on telling students what they can 
do at the university to enhance their 
chances for employment and the per
sonal enjoyment of the jobs. Helping 
students recognize their strengths, 
priorities, values and goals is the ob
jective of the course. Those who know
themselves best and have the clearest
vision of what they want to do with
their lives have the best chance to find
good jobs and to be satisfied in their
work, says Dr. Miller, the course
instructor. _The BG NEWS
Bowling Green University
GREGORY: YOU GOTTA 
CHANGE THIS WORLD
Comedian and civil rights activist Dick 
Gregory challenged about 1,000 East 
Stroudsburg State College students yes
terday to hit this country with a new 
wave of morality.
He told the young people to stop 
worrying about Pepsi and reefers and 
start doing something about correcting 
a white racist system that is sick, in
sane and degenerate.
The games are over, he said. We 
need honesty and integrity. The truth. 
All the money and military strength 
dont mean anything. He attacked the 
CIA, FBI and special interest groups 
that he claims are trying to ruin the 
country by economic disaster.
He said the special interest groups 
that allegedly perpetrated the gasoline 
shortage a year ago can do the same 
thing to your food supply. They can 
bring this country down on its knees. 
Do you know theres only enough food 
stored away now to feed the 200 million 
Americans for three days?
He predicted that in 18 months the 
price of sugar will skyrocket again and 
instead of dope pushers therell be 
sugar pushers and a new kind of 
policeman  sugar busters.
DICK GREGORY
Its not the population explosion thats 
causing the food shortage but such pricefixing deals as the sale of wheat to the 
Russians, Gregory charged.
Did you know this country produces 
98 per cent of all the munitions on this 
planet?
So many Americans think were 
dumb enough to believe were on Israels 
side but were training the Arabs in 
Texas to fly fighter jets. Were on the 
side where we can make money.
The white racist system has messed 
up your mind and makes you think bad. 
The schools should start educating you, 
not indoctrinating you. Dont go to 
school under false pretenses. The worst 
reason to go to college is to be better 
off than somebody else. Dont put too 
much empahsis on your college trans
cript. Learn to get along with your 
fellow man.
He referred to the anti-Vietnam War 
demonstrations which he claimed put 
pressure on the Pentagon and the White 
House and eventually stopped the war. 
He said the young people face a lot of 
responsibilities with few solutions, but 
you can make the difference. You, 
individually. You did it before. You 
can do it again.
East Stroudsburg State College 
East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania
National College News Service 1976

---------------------------------------------------

6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODFQEDWIlamy E
Shamos Makes Innovations in 15-104 Structure
by Claire Lee
Dr. Michael Shamos, a new Assistant 
Professor of Math and Computer Science 
at CMU, believes he has the secret for 
teaching 15-104 successfully. This is the 
Introduction to Computing, a class with 
310 students. His goal for the students is 
for them to be able to understand com
puters and to use them in their future 
work both at CMU and after.
This is how he proposes to do that. The 
students meet 4 times a week for 1 hour 
sessions. Dr. Shamos believes this combina
tion will generally prevent student bore
dom and, at the same time, increase their 
exposure to the subject matter. Two of 
these times the 310 students gather in 
DH 2210 for the Doctors lectures. His 
lectures are not all from the texts; he feels 
it very important that both the teachers 
and students time not be wasted, but be 
made profitable. He also uses all visual and 
audio equipment available to arouse in
terest and enthusiasm from the students.
During the other two one-hour sessions, 
the class is divided into numerous small 
sections with around 20 students in each. 
Each group is under one instructor who 
grades all the work done and who gets to 
know the students well so as to be able to 
discover any possible problem early. Stu
dents having trouble in the study can 
receive special help and those finding the 
work rather easy can receive special or 
more advanced projects to complete.
Dr. Shamos and the present 13 instruc
tors have weekly meetings in which 2 basic 
things are done. He receives critical feed
back on his lectures from the instructors 
who attend the lectures and sit among the 
students. He then coordinates with them 
the subject matter to be dealt with in the 
coming lectures and classes so that there is
general consistency between the two.
The facilities available to the students 
are also encouraging. Not only do they 
have Dr. Shamos and the 13 instructors but 
there are also 5 computer consultants who 
are in the computer room for 50 hours a 
week to give the student any assistance he 
may need. Dr. Shamos says that there is 
more than enough computing power for 
his students to use, yet there are conges
tions because students tend to wait until 
the last moment for completing their 
assignments. The only assignments given 
are real problems that occur in different 
disciplines; the emphasis is not on mem
orization, but on the learning of how to 
use the computers to solve all different 
kinds of problems. In Dr. Shamos mind, a 
student in 15-104 who can take a com
putational problem in any scientific dis
cipline, analyze it, develop an algorithm, 
make a correct program to implement it, 
run the program, and produce results,
Dr. Michael Shamos, Assistant Professor of 
Computer Science. Photo by Kathi Leichter
GO IN' DU NT UN

contir.^dd from page thirteen 
think she was badly hurt.
By 7:00, all of my earlier enthusiasm 
had left me, and I started off in search of a 
bus for the trip back to CMU, (Id long be
fore lost track of the kids Id come with). 
I got lost a number of times, for I was told 
to find The courthouse. Thats the 
nearest place you can get a bus back to 
Oakland. At one point, I got back to 
within two blocks of the mob.
Apparently, the police were doing their 
best to break up the crowd. I saw scuffles 
occuring down the street, with cops arres
ting anyone for not obeying them (in fair
ness to the police, no one was formally 
charged and everyone was released by mid
night). There were about five of us on the 
corner, watching what seemed to be mass 
insanity two blocks away. Three cops 
strutted over and told us to move along. 
One girl, swaggering and very drunk, began 
bad-mouthing a cop. Her boyfriend pulled 
her away but she wouldnt leave. Another 
guy came over and defended the girl 
against the cop, throwing in a few remarks 
of his own. He was arrested. The drunk 
girl very nearly was as well, except her boy
friend finally got her out of the way. A
:MTuSHpT6^ 4HU64H^ 47 
6CS C4N^ plTHT6 lUHTpC jULf/
hi: hUil:p
SATURDAY MASS.............................................7iOO :JA. - Toch Trus
SUMO AY MASS.........................10:30 A JA.  Sclonco Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-frl.|....................................StOO PJA.  Toch Houm
Fathers John Walsh or Dob Cngllsh 
Toch Houm SI 23 Margaret Morrison 421-2911
would get an A for the course.
Dr. Shamos suggests that there was no 
specific reason for the dissatisfaction of the 
students last semester; rather, it was the 
result of many little things combined. 
The first possible reason was that, the text 
used was held in little esteem by the stu
dents. He believes that such a text was 
chosen because the professor was of the 
opinion that it was the best and most ap
propriate book available at the time; there 
was and is no classical text book for 
computer science since it is a fairly new 
field of study. Dr. Shamos is now using 
Fortran Programming: The Spiral Ap
proach as more of a guide than as the 
foundation of the course material. He 
places emphasis on the material covered in 
the lectures and the classes. Dr. Shamos 
recognizes the limitations of the present 
text and sincerely feels that no text book 
will ever completely teach computer 
science; it must be learned by frequent 
exposure and practice, almost like an 
apprenticeship.
Secondly, the class schedule was poorly 
constructed. It consisted of 3 sessions a 
week: one 2-houp la b session and two 
1-hour lectures. Many students felt that the
labs were so large that they defeated their 
purpose of allowing free discussion be
tween the studeents and teacher. The lec
tures were held in dreary" rooms, with 
no microphones nor visual aids. The labs 
are now replaced by 15 small class ses
sions and the lectures are livened up 
as much as possible.
The third change that has taken place in 
15-104 is the professors entire attitude 
toward teaching the course. Dr. Shamos 
believes that his personal style differs 
from that of his predesessors. If it works, 
I will teach this course once a year from 
now on. Since this course would be offer
ed during both semesters, 15-104 will be 
taught during one semester by Dr. Shamos 
and during the other by another professor 
(working with Dr. Shamos).
After only 2 weeks of teaching 15-104, 
Dr. Shamos is unable to give any definite 
results relating to his amount of
success in practice. He and the instructors 
are keeping a very close watch on the
course $ progress and will make all changes 
necessary' to help the students learn (and 
be interested), and to improve constantly 
what the course has to offer-and how it 
is all presented.
Housing and Sports
large, middle-aged cop glared down at me, 
Move along! he boomed.
Even though the inside of the police van 
was probably much warmer, I decided to 
to be a good citizen so I kept walking, 
finally -finding my way to the courthouse 
and a bus to Oakland.
It was then I discovered I was a nickel 
short of bus fare....
MIS Dean?
continued from page one 
dividual department involved and filter up 
to the appropriate Dean who relays them 
to the Provost, whether Schatz or his collegue Provost Arnold Weber. From there 
suggestions go to Cyert.
As of now, the list of applicants for the 
post of MIS Dean is sitting quietly awaiting 
action. The post, left vacant by the resigna
tion of Aksel A. Bothner-by last year, was 
advertised in Science magazine and the 
Chronicle of Higher Education. Some ac
tion may come soon. The search commitee 
is being reconstituted. As of now, 
though, no definite date has been set to 
announce the new Dean of MIS. .
continued from page one
getting a break even agreement.
When questioned about the universitys 
inability to guarantee housing for married 
students, Zalewski denied that there was 
any intent to phase out married stu
dents. Instead, he stated that they have 
declared a moratorium on married stu
dents housing.
The committee meeting began with a 
report from James Banner, Director of 
Athletics, on the current status of the Ath
letic Department. He told the trustees that 
his number one priority was for the im
provement of life time sports facilities. He 
denied that he had any intent to go big 
time football reiterating his goal to be the 
best in the Presidents Athletic Conference 
and in Division III of the NCAA. Banner 
indicated that he thought progress was be
ing made in varsity sports. Commenting on 
the Basketball team he stated while were 
still lacking victories were coming close. 
He explained the decision was made to 
terminate Joe Gasparella as Head Football 
Coach because the organizaiton necessary
to be better than 5-3 was lacking.
Banner also reported that donations to 
the alumni fund had allowed the athletic 
budget to be increased by $30,000. He ex
plained that this $30,000 was part of the 
$100,000 which the department hoped to 
raise over a three year period by soliciting 
former athletes from CMU. This led to a 
discussion by the Trustees over whether 
students were aware of the contributions 
which alumni make to the university. Stu
dent members of the committee reported 
that most students have a negative attitude 
towards alumni. This prompted the com
mittee to conclude that an effort was nec
essary to make students more aware that 
Alumni contribute over one million dollars 
annually to the university.
Banner also reported that three full-time 
football coaches were being hired and he 
announced plans for increasing the size of 
the football team so that we will have 
more to choose from. He also reported 
that bids were being collected for resur
facing and adding lights to the tennis 
courts.
LEATHER COAT 
SALE!
o *164
Values to *250
All by the very 
best makers. Wraps, 
double breasted and 
trench styles. Choose 
from over 100 Coats.
ae211t ae f1,zyJ
(across from the black angusl
-*%7
10 9 men & fri
10 6 tues , wed , thurs & sat

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-January 27,1976
continued on page eleven
Photos by Shamlian & Fabian
Skibos elegant ballroom was the scene 
of a fashion show featuring the designs of 
Mark Pennywell of California, on Sunday 
evening, January eighteenth. The show, 
titled Swing into Spring featured a total 
of twenty-eight styles divided into four cat
egories: daywear, cocktail wear, evening 
wear, and bridal. At the conclusion of the 
showing, a wine and cheese reception was 
held in the faculty lounge, enabling the 
audience to meet and talk with the design
er.
Pennywell, a Pittsburgh native, has 
worked extensively on the west coast, 
designing for Soul Train, The Ben Vereen 
television special, and various other tele
vision shows. Although he designs for men, 
his first Pittsburgh showing featured only 
womens clothes. The designs are flowing 
yet tailored to accent the feminine form, 
an aspect which unfortunately wasnt as
KJ
U
evident as it might have been, due to the 
sizes not always fitting the models. The 
models consisted of two professionals and 
six Carnegie-Mellon girls. Despite several 
delays throughout the show, the styles 
were well received by the audience, which 
was luckily comprised mainly of students.
Pennywell believes clothes should be 
comfortable without being baggy or full 
of folds. He favors a tailored, casual look 
that allows a woman to move. He uses the 
fabrics chiffon and jersey extensively, and 
his colors are vivid. Details, such as lettuceedged hems and silk flowers give many of 
his designs a fresh, organic look while 
others range more toward the theatrical.
Previously available only through pri
vate auction, Pennywells designs will be 
available to the Pittsburgh market in late 
February. They will be available at the 
Niche, a boutique which will also feature 
the work of other couturiers.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
is exhibiting a group of thirty-seven prints 
in various media and two reliefs by Louise 
Nevelson. Famed as a sculptor of assem
blages constructed from diverse shapes of 
wood, Nevelson has experimented with the 
development of texture in her grapic work 
as well as in her sculpture. The exhibition, 
which spans twenty years of Nevelsons 
life, explores the relationship between her 
sculpture and her prints.
Louise Nevelson, born in Kiev, Russia, 
in 1900, came with her family to Rock
land, Maine in 1905. She studied at the Art 
Students League, New York and with Hans 
Hofmann in Munich; later she was mural 
painting assistant to Diego Rivera. Begin
ning as a painter, she did not exhibit sculp
ture until 1941. Numerous important 
group and one-man shows have followed, 
including retrospectives at the Whitney 
Museum in New York and the Museum of 
Fine Arts, Houston. Nevelson has exhibited 
in several Pittsburgh Internationals and in 
1967 served on the Jury of Award.
The Nevelson exhibition which has been 
made possible in part by a matching grant 
from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts 
will continue through February 15 in 
Heinz Gallery D and may be viewed Tues
day through Saturday from 10:00 am until 
5:00 pm and on Sunday from 1:00 until 
6:00 pm. The Museum is closed on Mon
days.
Mr. Bs Restaurant, on Route 19 North 
in the North Hills area, is starting a new 
dinner-theatre policy and is opening on 
January 23rd with the sensational singing 
and dancing priest, Father Tom Smith. 
The dinner-theatre will operate all year 
round with shows every Friday and Sat
urday at 9:30 pm and an occasional Sun
day performance at 7:30. The Father 
Tom Smith Show will run for six week
ends, January 23rd through February 28th.
There are plans for future productions of 
Godspell, Jesus Christ Superstar, 
Camelot and Man of La Mancha at 
Mr. Bs. Information about, and reserva
tions for Mr. Bs new Dinner-Theatre can 
be had by calling 391-1310 or 766-2967.
Andre Watts, the 29 year old American 
pianist, acclaimed throughout the world as 
a supervirtuoso, follows the monumental 
Stern, Zukerman concert for the Y Music 
Society Recital Series with his own brand 
of electrifying and daring musician
ship.
The phenomenal pianist is scheduled to 
appear on Sunday, February 8 at 7:30 pm 
in the Morris Kaufmann Auditorium of the 
Jewish Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue, in Oakland.
His program will feature music by Schu
bert and Gershwin including a little known 
piano version of the Rhapsody in Blue 
which Gershwin, himself, arranged by fus
ing the original piano score with the orch
estral parts. Gershwins inimitable Three 
Piano Preludes will also be heard. Vaises 
Nobles, Three Impromptus and A Major 
Sonata, all by another great song writer, 
Franz Schubert, will be featured on the 
first half of the program.
Although the Y Music Series is sold out 
by subscriptions, a limited number of 
single tickets are now available for this con
cert. For information, call 521-8010.
The International Poetry Forum will 
initiate the second half of its tenth anniver
sary season on February 4 with Anthony 
Hecht and Sandra McPherson at 8:00 pm 
in Carnegie Lecture Hall. Pulitzer prize 
winning poet Anthony Hecht is the author 
of A Summoning of Stones and The Hard 
Hours. In addition to his own poetry, Mr. 
Hecht is well-known for his share in the in
vention of a new form of comic verse, 
known as the double-dactyl, which resulted 
in Jiggery Pokery. He has also translated
Uw sw NSh6:HSp X plShTUN SuSM6p
PRESENTS
SENATOR
tuetDt icRolfHm
 -girl.
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 4th
SKIBO BALLROOM 8:000 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODF QEDWIlamy QQ
Aeschylus Seven Against Thebes, which 
was published by Atheneum. Mr. Hecht 
has also writtten poetry reviews and essays 
for the Hudson Review.
Sandra McPhersons books include Ele
gies for the Hot Season and Radiation. Her 
poems have appeared in The New Yorker, 
Field, Poetry Northwest and many other 
magazines.
Half-season subscriptions are available at
In concert this past Saturday, a 
versatile John Hartford amused his 
packed audience by performing his 
own form of comical music. The 
AnIreIsepoi opened the show with 
jsome of their own fine country 
playing. All the grass-roots folks who 
flocked to the concert seemed to be 
mighty glad they did.
Photos by Elliot Popowitz
the Poetry Forum office in Carnegie Lib
rary, Oakland. The half-season subscription 
is available for $10.50 and to senior citi
zens and students for $7.00. Single tickets 
are $3.00 and $2.00.
The International Poetry Forum is spon
sored by Carnegie Library under a grant 
from the A.W. Mell<5n Educational and 
Charitable Trust. For more information 
call 621-9893.
Top:"...I wanna get the words to this 
song right."
Above: A virtuoso on the Cheeks, 
John gives a rendition of 
Dueling Banjos".
*
%
C-MUSIC
By Sherry Siegel
Too much contemporary music sounds 
like what I would imagine computer drop
pings to sound like, if indeed there existed 
such a substance. Modern composers seem 
intent on creating the ugliest noise and the 
clumsiest rhythm possible. Remember ton
ality: That was when you could tell what 
key the music was in. One could even hum 
along with the tune or tap a foot in time. 
But these ideas, I understand now, are oldfashioned, (we must continually push out 
on our musical boundaries, search out bold 
new sounds that have before been heard!) 
and so I have resigned myself to the task 
of listening to present-day cacophony with 
open ears and an open mind.
You know, its really not so terrible, 
this Modem Music.
On Tuesday night, the C-MU Depart
ment of Music presented its first Student 
Composers Concert of the year, and the 
original pieces performed were, for the 
most part, surprisingly enjoyable. The 
concert opened with Amy Brodo playing 
Phantasm for Cello Alone, by Stephen 
Horelick. The music called for abrupt 
shifts in mood to complement the dra
matic changes in musical texutre. Brodo 
gave an excellent performance.
James Rubbo, tenor, then sang the 
beautiful Melville Songs by Scott Norris. 
Based on the Civil War poems of Herman 
Melville, the songs are elegant and power
ful. The piano part, often just an open 
chord repeated, contributes a dramatic 
intensity to the rough lyricism that Rubbo 
picked up on so well. The songs build to an 
effective climax that leaves the listener 
ready for the quiet conclusion.
The next composition, Harry Hnatkos 
Intimations of a Summer Rain, performed 
by Dan Delisi on guitar, was a pleasant 
enough piece of music. It was followed by 
Sdnor. composed by Brenda Hutchinson.
This was easily the most entertaining 
piece of the evening, and was enthusias
tically received by the audience. In keep
ing with the title, the music opens with a 
quiet murmur that grows to include the 
wails of a clarinet, flute, violin, trumpet, 
cello and string bass: there is humor in
this piece of music. Behind the instrumen
talists wait a formidable line-up of percus
sionists, ready to play xylophone, vibra
phone, standing cymbals, tam-tam (the 
immense Chinese gong), temple blocks, 
assorted drums and the strings inside a 
piano. The music becomes a showcase for 
textural diversity. Just as the music is 
about to lose our interest, we are stunned 
into wakefulness by a surprising climax. 
Sopor is a refreshing piece which, thank
fully, does not take itself too seriously.
Kim Kaufmans Sonatina for Two 
Violins, performed by Pam Hockenberry 
and Fred Kaempf, and Doug Pettys Sona
ta for Oboe, with Fred Birght on oboe and 
Leslie Purcell on piano, were the most 
difficult pieces of the evening to listen to. 
Kaufmans demanding Sonatina required 
absolute precision in rhythm and intona
tion, and the two violinists gave a convin
cing performance.
The concert ended with Dave Berlins 
Patterns, a sonata for saxophone quartet. 
Knowing the melifluous sonorities a sax 
quartet is capable of making, I found the 
harsh sound of Patterns a disappointment; 
the piece does not do justice to the instru
ments.
At the end of the concert the composers 
gathered onstage to field questions from 
the audience. The discussion was led by 
Roland Leich, theory and composition pro
fessor, in his usual erudite and witty man * 
ner. Most of the questions went, understan 
dably, to Brenda Hutchinson. All in all, the 
evening was delightful. I am eagerly look 
ing forward to the next Student Compo
sers Concert, scheduled for April 23 
Perhaps there is some good to be found in 
contemporary composition after all.
i
WOMEN'S CULTURAL FESTIVAL
Sponsored By: Undergraduate 
Women's Union
317 Student Union 624-5944
Wednesday, Jan. 28
-8pm, ballroom: KATE MILLET 
PHYLLIS CHESLER 
"The Contemporary Feminist Movement: 
Our Roots Are In The Past
Thursday, Jan. 29
-12 pm, ballroom: "200 YEARS: WOMEN IN THE U.S." 
Panel discussion followed by workshops: 
Vernell Lillie, MINORITY WOMEN 
Maurine Greenwald, WOMEN AND LABOR 
Rachel Maines, WOMEN AND NEEDLEWORK 
Linda Pritchard, WOMEN AND RELIGION 
Marilyn Goldsmith, WOMEN AND SEXUALITY 
-8pm, ballroom: RUBY DEE
WILLIE MAE REID 
"Black Women In The U.S."
Friday, Jan. 30
-12 pm, ballroom: LOUISE BERNIKOW 
"Halfway Up From Slavery:;WomenJs Poetrq/ 
Women's Experience
followed by a creative writing workshop 
-8 pm, ballroom: MYRNA LAMB 
"Grantsmanship:
The Survival of the Female Artist''
Saturday, Jan. 31
-2 pm, Dining Rooms, A.B.C. CARMA HINTON 
"Women in China discussion, slides 
 Co-sponsored by U.S.-China Peoples Friendship 
Association 
-8pm, Concert: BUFFY ST. MARIE 
and THE McGARRIGLE SISTERS
Sunday, Feb. 1
-2 pm, Dining Rooms, A.B.C.: "Pittsburgh Feminist 
Network An open meeting of feminists to 
discuss the future of the Women's Movement in 
Pittsburgh.
PLUS:
NEEDLEWORK DISPLAY, 5th Ave. entrance S.U. 
sponsored by Center for the History of Am. 
Needlework.

---------------------------------------------------

lamy QOKTHE TARTAN-ParRqqb ODFQEDW
THIEL TOPPLED BUT HIRAM'S STILL NO. 1
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon basketball has been 
characterized the last few years by being 
able only to play well in spurts. This year 
under first year coach Dave Maloney, the 
spurts have been longer and more frequent.
Last Wednesday night, the Tartans dis
played the type of.ball the entire second 
half that any tearp would be justiy proud 
of. They dominated in all. phases of the 
game as they blew the Thiel Tomcats off 
the floor, 69-57.
Coach Maloney commented after the 
game that CMU looked like it was starting 
to put thin^ together, both offensively 
and defensively. He said, We played our 
best defense of the season in the second 
half.
Also, the problem of not being able to 
handle the pressure of having a lead, that 
has plagued the Tartans many times this 
year, was nowhere to be found at Skibo 
Gym. They worked with precision in keep
ing the lead and building up a large margin 
that stretched to 18 points late in the game.
Probably the biggest factor in the sec
ond half was the superior rebounding ef
forts of center Paul (The Franchise) 
Hamerly and Marty Costa. They did a 
yeomens job underneath the hoop limi
ting Thiel to just one shot many times and 
giving CMU second and third chances at 
the offensive end. Costa had a game high 
14 bounds, while Hamerly pulled down 7.
CMU blew several opportunities to open 
the game wide in the first half due mainly 
to poor shooting and critical turnovers. 
The Tartans could not pull away after 
breaking to an early lead. With Larry 
DiCicco sitting out eleven minutes of the 
half, the Tartans couldnt find the fire po
wer to stay in front. Thiel kept the pres
sure on and moved to a 26-24 halftime 
lead.
The second half belonged all to CMU as 
they took the lead for keeps early into 
the final 20 minutes. A brief six point ex
plosion near the 12 minute mark, gave Tech 
a comfortable nine point lead.
A power move lay-up by Hamerly, two 
free throws by the 6-9 star from Penn Hills 
High School, and an 18 foot jumper by 
DiCicco took the steam out of the invaders 
and gave CMU a cushion to coast to victo
ry.
CMU displayed a balanced scoring at
tack as four men hit for double figures. Ha
merly led all scorers for the night with 19. 
He was backed by DiCiccos 16, Dane Wukichs 15, and Costas 12. John Quinlin and 
Curt Campbell shared high point honors 
for Thiel with 16 apiece.
Maloney, whose team evened theirr
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES 
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original - 5c 
Multiple copies per original:
1st copy 
2nd-50th copies 
51st
4
3c2c
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating  3-hole punched 
colored paper  legal si/e
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N. Craig St. 681 5411
Photo by Courtney Larson
Larry DiCicco going up for two against Hiram meanwhile Hiram's No. 11 intentionally fouls him.
conference record to a 2-2 and overall to 
2-7, had the opportunity to give everyone 
some playing time in the last minute of the 
game.
CARNEGIE -MELLON 
PLAYER FGM FGA REB PTS
Hamerly714719
DiCicco715416
Wukich71715
Costa4101412
Derringer1124
Boykins1A0A
Deabrunzzo0510
Ward0
THIEL
A20
PLAYERFGMFGAREBPTS
Campbell717716
Quinlin818516
Pompelia514A10
Fan tine1129
ThiermanA1156
Thiel0420
Fox0440
CMU DROPS GAME TO HIRAM 78-67 
Hameriy unable to play because of flu
by Bob Firm
Hiram showed why it is alone at the top 
of the Presidents Athletic Conference bas
ketball race as they worked the fast break 
to perfection and got some unexpected 
outside scoring to down Carnegie-Mellon, 
78-67.
Hiram, widely known for their cherry 
picking offense, build up a large halftime 
lead with the running game and used the 
hot outside shooting of Ted McDivitt to 
stave off the Tartans furious comeback 
efforts in the second half.
Coach Dave Maloney said, I told the 
team before the game started that we 
would have to stop their fast break and 
handle their defensive pressure. We werent 
able to do so and thats why they got the 
halftime lead. However, Maloney was 
quite pleased at the second half effort 
of the Tartans because they hung in 
there and never quit hustling.
CMU raced to an early five point
advantage in the first half due to good 
shooting and a quick defense. But the 
visitors came back with eleven unanswered 
points mainly on fast break baskets by 
Tony Bolden and Ernie Pasqualone.
The Tartans played some bad ball in 
this stretch as they turned the ball over, 
took poor shots, and werent crashing the 
boards well. Hiram used these to their 
full advantage, building leads of as many 
as 14 points.
Previous Tech teams might have fallen 
completely apart, but the 1975-76 edition 
was not about to give up so easily. They 
pressured the Terriers and forced them 
into mistakes. Their hustle and desire 
narrowed the gap to four points with a 
, couple of minutes left in the half.
Hiram kept their composure and scored 
eight consecutive points before halftime 
to lead, 47-35.
It was periods like these that the servi
ces of Paul Hamerly were sorely missed. 
The towering center missed the game due 
to a case of the flu. His absence greatly 
decreased CMUs needed rebounding and 
scoring punch.
CMU effectively stopped the Hiram 
fast break in the second half, but the 
shooting of McDivitt built the Ohio col
leges lead to 19. McDivitt a 6-3 forward 
burned the nets for 22 points.
The Tartans made several comeback 
attempts in the second half on the scoring 
abilities of Marty Costa and Larry DiCicco. 
The two junior forwards had 22 and 18 
points respectively.
A play that typified the CMU hustle 
throughout the game was a sensational 
blocked shot by Dane Wukich as he came 
out of nowhere to thwart a Hiram fast 
break.
The Tartans enthusiasm was not enough, however, as they missed on many 
critical 1-and-l situations. They were never 
able to get closer than ten points to the 
high-flying Terriers.
Besides Costa and DiCicco, Dennis Der
ringer scored in double digits with 10 mark
ers for CMU 
Pacing Hiram were McDivitt; Pasqualone 
with 17; Bolden, whose outside shooting 
rivals a grade school girls team, with 15; 
and Ray Vaughn with 10.
Carnegie -Mellon, whose record dropped 
to 2-3 in league play and 2-8 overall, 
travels to Washington & Jefferson tomor
row night and is home Saturday afternoon 
at 2:00 p.m. against Allegheny.
ISRAEL WEEK 1976
At CMU -- Skibo Lobby
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3
11 a.m. - 3 p.m. Information Booth and Kibbutz Exhibit
11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. Falafel Stand
3 p.m. Movie: "Kasablan" Wherrett Room-Skibo
TpHUSN cU^ U6 lT66 p6:cSM6 :MT4M I 7SsH:UH^ Yw ;F W
Israeli Exhibits, Information Booth, Falafel & Movies 
Call 621-8875 for more information
0HUMc 7TMUNS K pU6:HcU^w 7SsH:UH^ D
At Oakland Jewish Community Center Auditorium, 31 5 S. Belief eld
7:35 p.m.
8:30 p.m. 
Donations: 
Sponsored by:
Israeli Falafel & Arts & Crafts Sale 
ISRAEL IN SONG, DANCE AND DRAMA with GADI ELON 
Students: $1.00; Non-students; $2.00
AZYF-lsraeli Shaliach, B'nai B rith Hillel, Israeli Student
Organization, Hamagshimim, Jewish Community Center, AZF,
El Al, Israeli Ministry of Tourism

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANParRa,b ODFYEDWIlamy QA
PRIDE'S NO. 1 IN IM B-BALL
CARNEGIE -MELLON
PLAYER FGM FGA REB PTS
Costa1017522
DiCicco7201118
Derringer47210
Wukich3718
DeaBrunzzo0335
Ward0012
Thomas1322
Boykins0110
Duncan0 2 
HIRAM
10
PLAYERFGMFGA REBPTS
McDivitt1014822
Pasqualone615217
Bolden715315
Vaughn44410
Chambers36137
Niehaus2565
Kitchen0. 012
Mills0220
Davis, Tim0130
by Roger Geddes
A short jumper by Mike Hopkins with 
30 seconds left in overtime gave Pride a 48- 
46 win over Beta and the best record in the 
majors after the first week of the season. 
They stand at .3-0 with other wins over 
GSIA, 45-28, and SAE 55-36.
Beta sent the game into overtime when 
Gary Bonn hit for "a field goal with 9 sec
onds left in regulation time. After Hopkins 
put Pride ahead to stay in overtime, Beta 
could manage only two shots in the last 
30 seconds, the last one with two seconds 
left. Both were unsuccessful as an incident 
on the sideline caused both benches to 
empty with two seconds left.
In other major league action, ATO and 
PIKA remain undefeated as both won their 
first two games.
ATO won their first game 28-27 against 
the Orangatangs when Rich Marusic hit the 
winning basket with 10 seconds left after 
a strong ATO press had stolen the ball. 
Their second win came handily over Black 
Heat, 31-22, as Bill OMara poured in 13 
points.
Photo by Popowitz
Dennis Derringer taking a jump shot against Thiel. CMU won 69-57.
PIKA, also 2-0, won a nail-biter over 
GSIA, 37-36, and then demolished the 
Studs 50-29 with Chuck DAngelos 14
for 21 points.
TOP MAJOR LEAGUE SCORERS
points leading the attack.1.White (S&P)22.0
In their only game thus far, Salt &2.Hopkins (Pride)16.3
Pepper, last years champions, got stiff3.Lefferty (Studs)14.5
competition from Phi Kap but held on to4.DAngelo (PIKA)14.0
win 51-41. White led the pack with 225.Hanna (SAE)14.0
points.6.Coates (Pride)13.3
The two top rated intermediate teams7.Chandler (Orangatangs)11.3
had no trouble winning their first games.8.Burner (BTP)11.0
Badd ran up the score against GSIA-B9.Binnie (PIKA)11.0
69-37 as Leon Fuller hit for 20 and Greg10.Marusic (ATO)11.0
Chambers added 19. Katoosh won easily
over the Clams, 62-41, as M. Sherwin hit OPINION
U.Nielsen (SAE)11.0
ATO PICKED TOW IN
The competition this year in the major 
division of intramural basketball looks to 
be more fierce with 12 teams playing for 
six playoff spots. This is more teams than 
the major division has seen in recent years. 
However, no one team looks good enough 
to run away with the championship. 
There is much more of a balance in talent 
and there should be a few new teams in the 
playoffs. Here is how the playoff bound 
teams look: SALT & PEPPERChampions 
of the league last year, S&P does not look 
to be as awesome as in previous years. 
They field a physical team with Berman 
a stalwart on the boards but they do not 
have the hot shooting guards they are 
usually famous for. They will win a lot 
of games with their power underneath 
the boards. ATOThe frustration of 
losing in the finals for two straight years 
should make them one of the top con
tenders in the league. Another strong 
physical team with height, ATO also has 
the class guards in Duquette and OMara, 
who set the pace of the game. PRIDEA 
playoff team last year, PRIDE will run a 
lot of teams into the ground with their fast 
break. In Hopkins and Coates they have 
the quickest and best shooting guards in 
the league. Not especially strong under
neath, they do have some height and 
a lot of shots. ORANGATANGS-Another 
playoff team from last year, the ORANG
ATANGS have a good pair of guards but 
not much to go along with them. 
Domenic runs the team well and Chandler 
is a good scorer but the rebounding is not 
very strong and will hurt them in future 
play. BTPFielding one of their best teams 
recent years, Beta has not made the play
offs in a long while. They are tall and 
strong underneath the boards and get a lot 
of rebounds. However, they have not ap
peared to be a good shooting team. The 
addition of a classy center in Gary Burner 
has made them a playoff contender. PKACentered around a pair of good ball hand
ling guards, especially Dangelo, Pika al
ways fields competitive teams. Kazero 
takes the burdens of the boards as he does 
not receive much support.
The playoffs this year will consist of 
teams with the top six records. The top 
two teams will probably receive byes while 
the next four will battle for two spots. 
After all of this , look for the semi-finals to 
consist of ATO, PRIDE, BTP, and S&P.DOWNTOWN
continued from page five
I suppose this was the year for the cops
to get back at us.
By 6:15, police riot control (with HUGE 
German shepherds) closed off the intersec
tion of Liberty and Sixth by about a block 
on any side. After then, anyone who tried 
to walk down to Gateway Center, was 
turned back. Some firecrackers were set
off, and a beer bottle or two were thrown 
around.
By 6:30, an arrest was made.
I walked around a block, then returned 
to find the crowd even larger than before, 
with most of the celebrants in the intersec
tion, trying to have a good time. I stood on 
a sidewalk in front of a bank, and a mob of 
people ran down the sidewalk, yelling 
something about a police dog. I turned and 
ran too, then stopped and looked back, 
to see if anything had really happened. I 
was bumped into, but not knocked down, 
although several people had been. One
was even slightly trampled, though I dont 
continued on page nine
JOT THIS DOWN
HANDBALL AND WATER BASKET
BALL - Entries due Tuesday, January 27 
at 4:30 in the I. M. office.
TABLE TENNIS (singles and doubles)  
Entries due Tuesday, February 3 at 4:30.
RIFLE AND CALL POOL 
February 3rd at 4:30 in
- Entries due 
I. M. office.
DIRECT FROM N.Y.C. LIVE! ON STAGE!!
Meet David Twerski
An American Oleh to Israel (Kibbutz Gezer)
TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 3. 1976
Personal Interviews & Information on Aliyah
9:00 a.m. -12:00 noon 
2:00 p.m. - 4:00 pan.
For appointments call Ron! Ofer - 683-7277 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4. 1976 
11:30 'i.m.
"The dancingest
show in town
12 noon -4 pm 
8:30 p.m.
Lunch with the Press, University of Pittsburgh 
(Schenley Hall)
Aliyah Table, University of Pittsburgh
Aliyah - You & Me", B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge 
Oakland
AAA A A A A A A A A AAAA AAA AAA AAAA AA
Broadway hit 
since Feb. *72 
- it still is!
SYRIA MOSQUE THEATER
THURSDAY, JAN 29th 8 pm FRIDAY, JAN 30th 8 pm
TWO NIGHTS ONLY 
$7.50 / $6 50 / $5 50 
ALL TICKETRON LOCATIONS HARTS - IN NEW KENSINGTON
ALL KAUFMANS WESTON - IN FRANKLIN
SEARS - (DOWNTOWN) PENN TRAFFIC - IN DU BOIS
GIMBLES AND HORNES (DOWNTOWN) STATE COLLEGE 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 412 344 4130

---------------------------------------------------

lamy QYI6CS 6UH6UMIParRa,b ODFQEDW
Seton Hill managed to close the gap to 18 
points but they could not overcome the 
halftime deficit.
CMU shot at a 46% rate from the field, 
led by Karen Azinger, who hit 8 out of 11 
for 73%, most of which were from the 
outside. Defensively CMU was on and off. 
The team seemed to have long streaks of 
giving up only low percentage shots. Then, 
Seton Hill would get an easy set shot. The 
problem was probably due to the 20 point 
lead maintained throughout most of the 
game and the good offensive movement by 
Seton Hill.
The team, whose overall record is three 
wins against zero losses, which includes 
two exhibition wins, plays Wednesday at 
W&J and Saturday at California State 
College of Pennsylvania.
CMU WRESTLING TOURNAMENTOPEN TO ALL CMU GRADUATE AND 
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, FAC
ULTY MEMBERS AND STAFF.
WHEN: Practice sessions scheduled for the 
weeks of Feb. 2-6 and Feb. 9-13. Matches 
will be Feb 16-17 and Feb. 19. Exact sche
dule and pairing will appear by Feb. 12. 
HOW TO ENTER: Fill out Entry form - 
include name, your weight and team (if 
any), return to I. M. office by Jan. 29. 
Entry Forms available in Room 104 Gym. 
WHERE: C-MU Gym, Thistle Hall.
WT. CLASSES: Tentatively - 132, 143,154, 
165, 175, 185, 195, 205, unlimited. Weighins, Feb.16.
MATCHES: Preliminaries: 1-2-2; Finals
2-2-2; Collegiate Rules.
AWARDS: 1st Place Awards, - both indi
vidual and team. 2nd place finishers will 
be considered in Final Team standing. 
PRACTICE SESSIONS: Feb. 2-6, 9-13 P.M. 
in the Dance Room of the Gym. It will be 
mandatory that at least three sessions be 
attended.
Alone & Pregnant? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
WOQIQEvv
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
f^ThereJsa^  difference!!! .
J PREPARE FOR 
/
Over 35 years 
of experience and success
Small classes
MCAT 
OAT LSAT 6RE ATGSB T 
[
; ECFMG : NUT MED BOS*
Voluminous tum 
study materials 

 

Abloipi SnuS uop EsbdiSudSt: lrTuSpT E

RuepNlri hbo amIiipT tpiibdi H 
Local Classes
6S1-9735
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TtST TheTCMCUBoM
*H<jAtisTS aMra ita
Id, AnInr
IftncKtl it Mw
OkX HOAD k
Pm 13217
K U 9 Oia
TheLoving Cup
WOMEN TAKE OPENER 
Smash Seton Hill 76-42
by Gordon Morrison
The C-M.U Womens Basketball Team 
won its regular season game on Saturday 
night by defeating Seton Hill 76-42. The 
team effort was led by Elly Zimmerman, 
who had 28 points and 24 rebounds. In
grid Goedicke and Karen Azinger added 
16 points each. The team started out very 
slowly, getting behind 7-0 at the begin
ning of the game. The CMU Women then 
took charge, outscoring the Seton Hill 
Women 13-2, never again falling behind. 
Seton Hill put on a full court press to try 
to stop the ball from getting down court 
where the accurate outside shooting took 
over once CMU got warmed up. But the 
press was easily broken and layups were 
the usual result. CMUs lead grew to 20 
points at halftime. In the second half,
SWIM TEAM 
SET RECORD
by Diane Maddock
The CMU Swim team traveled to Wash
ington & Jefferson on Saturday with the 
hopes of repeating last years victory. Trav
eling with the team were Donna Maillio 
coach, and the two managers Joe Caine 
and Bob Hantz. But somehow the team 
was unable to capture a win. The final 
score of 74-39 didnt justify the efforts of 
the swimmers. Two school records were 
set: the 400 Medley Relay with a time of 
3.5900 and Tony Carrington captured op
tional diving record with 194 points. Next 
Saturday the team plays John Carroll at 
home at 2:00.
Chuck Klausing, CMU's Head Football Coach, is here to stay. Photo by Eniot Popowitz
OPEN ADMINISTRATION?
by Elly Zimmerman
Last week it looked as if Chuck 
Klausing, CMUs new Head Football 
Coach, was going to end his coaching ca
reer at CMU with a perfect record. The 
local media reported that Klausing had 
applied for the Head Coaching position 
at West Virginia University causing un
certainty about his status at CMU.
The controversy ended with the an
nouncement by WVU last Tuesday that 
their new Head Coach would be Frank 
Cignetti.
Coach Klausing was approached by the 
TARTAN to clarify confusion stemming 
from conflicting reports. When asked
whether he had been considered for the 
job at WVU, Klausing commented, I 
dont know whether I was or not. Jim 
Banner, CMUs Athletic Director, told 
the Trustees last Monday, that CMU would 
not know whether Klausing would be 
leaving until WVU made their announce
ment on Monday or Tuesday. This 
indicates that Klausing was definitely 
under consideration for the job.
Klausing was asked if he had signed 
a five year contract with CMU. He replied, 
Has that been officially announced? That 
is something Mr. Banner would have to 
answer. Thats a private matter.
The major controversy centered around 
Klausings contract with CMU. When 
asked how he planned to get out of his 
contractual obligations with CMU he 
answered, I dont really know how to 
answer that.
In an effort to find some answers, 
the TARTAN contacted Jim Banner, the 
Athletic Director but Mr. Banner refused 
to comment on any of the above matters.
