nside
Rendar...............................................................LIO
assified.................................................................IO
mies........................................................................L5
torsions.................................................................L7
satures..................................................................jiim......................................torts.........................................9
jxPopuli..............................................................LIO
Diversions
Visit the Warhol 
museum  page L7
Sports
Track prepares for 
Chicago  see page 9
Features
Save the Earth!  
see page LI
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
THE TARTAN
lume 89, Issue 22Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 1906An drewW ARRC
Printer drops Union
By EDWARD HAYES
Iartan News Editor
Type Craft Printing Inc. informed CMUs open-forum newspaper, The 
Student Union, that they will not bid on their publication in the upcoming fall. 
The decision was announced to Lenny Young, the business manager of the 
caper, on Tuesday, when a representative of the printers called him.
"They [Type Craft] said they were not going to renew our contract in the fall 
due to a history of printing [material] that the president and the owner found 
offensive, he said.
Young said that the earliest offense cited was an issue from a few years ago 
ionceming free speech. The cover was planned to read FUCK in 250-point 
font. The scary thing is that theyve been compiling these things for at least 
five or six years and not telling us, Young said.
When Young asked their representative the specific cases that led to this 
decision, the only answer was that a letter would be sent to him. The letter said 
suite simply, We thank you for the opportunity to bid on your publication, 
owever at this time our company, Type Craft Press Incorporated, respect
fully declines to bid based on what we feel is objectionable material in this 
particular publication. The letter was signedby the president of the company. 
No other explanation was given. Im assuming the most egregious errors are 
graphics because theyre the most immediate to see, Young said. But, Im not 
ruling out that they might have disagreed with our content as well.
The decision not to bid on The Student Union was very sudden. It basically 
came out of nowhere, said Young. In the four issues that The Student Union 
had this academic year, there have not been any problems. We printed sexual 
things like penises and genitalia [without any problem], he said.
The only comment that Type Craft would give The Tartan was from Ed 
Major, the production manager. Were not turning them away, were just 
declining to bid. Major would not comment on the reasons behind the 
decision, [The President] was more [in] on that decision.
The president, John Major, was not available for comment.
This was not the first time Type Craft has had printing problems with 
student newspapers. A few weeks ago The Pitt News ran blank white spaces 
in place of sexually explicit photos. Type Craft called up one of the managing 
editors and gave him three options: run white space in place of the photos, 
block out the offensive portions of the photos, or not print the paper at all. It 
was Type Crafts decision, said Mark Gordan, the assistant news editor of The 
Pitt News. It is a private business and they can decide what they want to print.
I dont necessarily consider it censorship. Gordan said that it was unclear if 
The Pitt News would stay with Type Craft. Our contract goes out June 30 and 
were going to bid and well see what happens. The Student Union has a 
history of printing what some would consider questionable material. Last 
year, they printed a page from Dossier, The Tartans literary rag, that Western 
Pennslyvania Printing, The Tartans publisher, refused to print. The poem 
was very frank and contained sexual overtones. The graphic design had 
praying hands juxtaposed against a baby crying with what appeared to be a 
gun to its head. The Student Union ran this page with a disclaimer explaining 
why it was running in their publication. Type Craft has a clause in their 
contract giving them the right not to print anything that they feel is obscene 
or offensive. Most printing companies, when signing a contract, will hold the 
right to determine what is acceptable to company standards, said Bill Diller, 
a representative at West Penn Printing. If that clause is included then that 
is a way of saying that they can determine what they feel is acceptable.
Mehrabian gets mixed reviews
Faculty speaks out on presidents performance
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
CMU President Robert Mehrabian will 
undergo an evaluation of his five-year 
presidency by the Board of Trustees in 
July of 1995 to explore his accomplish
ments as president and his future plans 
for the University.
Mehrabian has been under fire in the 
local press in light of the resignation of 
GSIA Dean Robert Sullivan and rumors 
of discontent with Mehrabians admin
istration among prominent members of 
the campus community. But the deci
sion to evaluate his presidency after five 
years was one made when Mehrabian 
took the job at CMU. He said in an 
interview two weeks ago, I made that 
decision before I came... primarily to be 
in synch with all the other academic 
leaders on campus.
Former President Richard Cyert has 
been cited for helping found GSIA, cut
ting departments, building graduates 
programs, and increasing research. A 
member of CMUs staff, who asked to 
remain nameless, said that President 
Cyert was regarded as more accessible 
and visible than President Mehrabian. 
The source also said that members of the 
staff feel that CMU has, in the past few 
years, been operating more like a corpo
ration than an educational institution. 
In 1994, CMU received the Three Rivers 
Environmental Award for Corporate 
Business.
The evaluation process of the presi
dent will begin in July and end in No
vember. The Board of Trustees will offi
cially appoint the evaluation committee 
at their May 22 meeting.
Three members of the Board, includ
ing Henry Gailliot, a lifetime member 
and recipient of three degrees at CMU, 
developed a process for the evaluation. 
Although evaluations of past presidents 
have occurred, the committee to review 
Mehrabian consulted materials from the 
Association of GoverningBoards, as well 
as meet with Faculty Senate, and other 
members of the campus community. 
Thomas McConomy, the chairman of
Tartan File Photo
CMU President Robert Mehrabian will undergo performance reviews this summer. 
Sources say that not all is well in the administration.
the Board of Trustees, said that because 
the process will be extensive, they will 
be looking to the Faculty Senate to act as 
the traffic cops. The Board will be 
interviewing undergraduate and gradu
ate students, deans, members of the 
Administration (which includes staff), 
alumni, supporters of the University, 
members of the local community, and 
people who formally held positions at 
CMU.
The committee, McConomy said, will 
be evaluating how well things have 
gone, and then determine if there should 
be a change in the charge from the trust
ees to the president.
Mehrabian said that as the president 
of a university, you serve at the plea
sure of the Board of Trustees. 
McConomy said they have a very active 
board, and that is one of its strengths.
Advisory Boards are set up for every 
department at the University, which
includes at least one trustee. The Advi
sory Boards not only benefit the depart
ments, but also provide faculty the op
portunity to express any personal con
cerns. Therefore, there is nothing the 
trustees arent aware of, said 
McConomy.
The Advisory Boards are conducted 
without the presence of the president or 
the provost, so McConomy says, there 
is a great deal of contact.
Mehrabian said, Ive been an advo
cate of having Advisory Boards, and 
said that there are a total of 432 people 
who make up the individual boards.
McConomy said that early on in his 
presidency, Mehrabian set goals. 
McConomy. has cited CMUs dropping 
attrition rate, an increased emphasis on 
undergraduates and counseling pro
grams, and the encouragement of the 
continuation of the Advisory Boards, 
Please see REVIEW, page 5
Student elections lack voters
By SUDHIR REDDY
hrtan Staffwriter
This years Student Senate elec
tions saw a surprisingly low 6.5 
percent voter turnout. This is 
learly a 50 percent decrease from 
last years 12.2 percent figure. 
We were really 
xcited last year 
about the high 
foter turnout,
?aid Kami White, 
student body 
president. She 
aid that Student 
Senate expected 
same results 
*his year because 
*hey thought Car
nal was condu
ce to more votes.
White gave some 
Masons for the low 
turnout. The votbooths were 
keld in the Skibo 
Parking lot last 
iear. This was
1 because it attracted people 
ft Carnival as well as people who 
fast walked by.
White said that Student Senconsidered the Morewood
Senate Chair Burt Holzman, a 
senior mechanical engineering 
student, said that student apa
thy was a strong presence on the 
campus and a strong factor in the 
low voter turnout.
Kevin Hughes, the Student 
Senate advisor, felt that student
Empty voting booths were not an uncommon scene in this years 
student government elections. Only 6.5 percent of the student 
body voted. This is down from last years 12.2 percent turnout.
apathy was not the sole reason 
for the low voter turnout. Stu
dents become involved in student 
issues when they have to, he
_______  said. Hughes referred to the pass/
Marking lot a good location for the fail referendum and the library 
Action booth because it was with issue as instances when students 
ther organizations in a busy got involved.
area.
Another factor may have been 
general student body apathy to 
fte student government.
White agreed that those issues 
may increase voter participation. 
The [pass/fail] referendum last 
year may have gotten more stu
dents to come to the vote. Pradip 
Hari, a freshman in computer 
science, was one of the many stu
dents who did not vote. I didnt 
vote because none of the candi
dates made the issues or their 
stand on them seem important.
They all had ideas about im
proving CMU but 
none of the ideas 
seemed innovative 
or unique. Hari 
said he didnt see 
any posters of sub
stance. In addi
tion, there was a 
surprisingly low 
number of people 
running for office. 
No one ran for Stu
dent Body Presi
dent and there was 
only one candidate 
who ran for Stu
dent Body Trea
surer.
Hughes said 
that this was a 
challenging year 
for Student Senate because there 
were a number of controversies 
that may have led to students 
becoming dissatisfied with stu
dent government.
At the last Senate meeting, the 
low percentage was brought up 
during the Public Relations 
chairs report. Senate will be 
looking into finding better ways 
to publicize next years student' 
government elections.
Tartan Rie Photo
WRCT faces budget cutbacks
By HEATHER ZINDLE
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate will meet 
Tuesday to vote on the pro
posed budget of WRCT, 
Carnegie Mellons student-run 
radio station. The Senate Fund
ing and Recog
nition (F&R)
Committee has 
cut WRCTs to
tal budget by 
nearly onethird, claiming 
their proposal is 
unclear and 
incorrect and 
also finding 
fault with the 
stations new ex_________
penditures, es
pecially those involving an an
tenna purchased last fiscal 
year.
I think it would be a waste to 
reduce operations when so 
much has been invested in the 
station, said Colleen Riley, 
WRCTs news director.
Steve Auterman, WRCTs 
general manager, says a radio 
station is more complex to op
erate than most other campus 
organizations because of ac
quired expenses.
These expenses include oper
ating year-round and during 
all holidays in order to abide by
the rules and regulations of the 
Federal Communications Com
mission (FCC).
Matters are further compli
cated by WRCTs status as a non
commercial station.
This prevents them from en
gaging in long-range fundraising
I think it would be a waste to 
reduce operations when so much 
has been invested in the station. 
 Colleen Riley, 
News Director of WRCT
campaigns, and also prevents 
them from accepting advertise
ments.
One major problem plaguing 
the passing of WRCTs budget 
involves the cost of an antenna 
they purchased through an allo
cation in last years budget.The 
antenna increased the stations 
power from 100 to 1750 watts, 
enabling it to reach over one mil
lion people in the Pittsburgh area, 
thus quadrupling the stations 
potential listeners.
WRCT received the new an
tenna in September 1993 when 
Senate approved a special alloca
tion of $25,000 in the form of a 
loan. However, the expendi
tures in the antenna account 
totaled over $58,000.
The money in this account 
included an $8,000 loan plus 
donations that were never 
transferred to the account.
__________ Auterman said
that WRCT will 
pay off the loan 
with donations 
and raised funds.
Emma Gosden, 
student body trea
surer said, Pres
ently, WRCT and 
student govern
ment are working 
on an equitable
--------------- agreement to remsolve the antenna 
account issue.
Auterman and Riley said 
more money was asked for in 
the budget to repair and re
place the equipment that is used 
over at the station.
Over the past few years, the 
power upgrade brought unex
pected expenses.
Equipment was repaired 
rather than replaced, but now 
they have been stretched to the 
limit. So new equipment is re
quired.
WRCT also economized to go 
under budget in order to pay off 
the antenna account.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995THIS JUST IN M
Activists arrested after suicide attack
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip, April 10 
(DJ)Palestinian police, underpres
sure to crack down on Islamic mili
tants after two suicide attacks that 
killed seven Israeli soldiers and an 
American student, arrested 112 activ
ists.
Hospital officials said the student, 
Alisa Flatow, a 20-year-old Brandeis 
University junior from West Orange, 
N.J., died after being wounded by 
shrapnel in yesterdays suicide bomb
ings.
The back-to-back attacks, which oc
curred within two hours of each other 
and wounded 43 people, led to new 
calls from Israeli leaders for Palestine 
Liberation Organization head Yasser 
Arafat to disarm Islamic militants in 
the PLO-run Gaza.
The Islamic Jihad group claimed 
responsibility for the first attack, in 
which a suicide bomber identified as 
Khaled Khatib drove an explosivesladen car into an Israeli commuter 
bus near the Kfar Darom settlement. 
Six Israeli soldiers were killed and 34 
people injured. A seventh soldier, a 
20-year-old sergeant, died of his 
wounds today.
In the second blast, a Palestinian 
car plowed into an Israeli convoy of 
military and civilian vehicles near the 
Netzarim settlement and exploded. 
Eleven people, including two young 
girls, were wounded. A leader of the 
Hamas group, which claimed respon
sibility for the second attack, warned
that any crackdown by Arafat would 
risk all-out conflict in Gaza.
The attacks led to new demands by 
Israeli Cabinet ministers and military 
leaders for Arafat to clamp down on 
extremists opposed to the Israel-PLO 
peace process.
In an apparent move to appease 
demands, an activist accused of plot
ting attacks against Israelis was con
victed and sentenced today to 15 years 
in prison in the first session of a spe
cial military court. The court identi
fied the activist as Samir Ali Al-Jedi, 
who Palestinian police said belonged 
to Islamic Jihad.
Arafat created the military court 
two months ago as a sign of his intent 
to curb militant violence, but no trials 
had been held until this session.
Hamas and Islamic Jihad activists 
swore today to continue their war 
against Israel. Sundays casualties 
from both bombings brought to 65 the 
number of Israelis killed in attacks 
claimed by Hamas and Islamic Jihad 
since October.
The bombings led to calls by Israeli 
right-wingers for Prime Minister 
Yitzhak Rabin to halt talks with the 
Palestine Liberation Organization on 
extending Palestinian autonomy from 
the Gaza and Jericho to the rest of the 
West Bank. But the chief Israeli del
egate, Yoel Singer, said today in Cairo 
that Israel is going ahead with nego
tiations, because suspending the talks 
would give a prize to bombers.
Iraq rejects U.N. offer
BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 16  Iraq for
mally rejected a U.N. offer to sell $2 
billion worth of oil to buy food and medi
cine.
The government said it would not ac
cept oil exports to pay for humanitarian 
needs, calling the proposal nothing but 
a U.S. maneuver to prolong sanctions.
The decision by President Saddam 
Husseins Cabinet was announced after 
a five-hour meeting. The resolution se
riously compromises Iraq's sovereignty 
and national unity, a state-run radio 
station said.
The decision was not a surprise. Iraqi 
officials had blasted the offer Saturday, 
and thousands of government employ
ees took to the streets of Baghdad, chant
ing anti-U.S. slogans.
We need to fight the holy war against 
Satan America until our victory, said
Abdul Gani Abdul Ghafoor, chief of the 
Baghdad chapter of Husseins ruling 
Baath party.
Still, many Iraqis thought the oil sale 
could ease their hardships. We had 
high hopes that our government will 
accept the plan, now we see there is no 
ray of hope for us, said one woman after 
reading banner headlines in the news
papers. She was afraid to give her name.
On Friday, the U.N. Security Council 
voted to allow Iraq to sell the oil over 180 
days, but it said 30 percent of the funds 
must go to victims of Iraqs 1990 inva
sion of Kuwait, and 13 percent to Iraqs 
Kurdish minority. Hussein apparently 
rejected the offer because he feared lim
ited oil sales would undermine his cam
paign to get all sanctions lifted. The 
U.N. resolutions ban Iraq from stockpil
ing, developing, or using weapons.
Iran suspected of sending guns
WASHINGTON, April 14 (D J)Iran 
is believed to be sending weapons to 
Bosnias Muslim-led government in vio
lation of a U.N. embargo on deliveries to 
Bosnia and other former Yugoslav re
publics, an administration official said 
today, according to a report from the 
Associated Press.
The official could not confirm a Wash
ington Post account quoting sources as 
saying that Iran has delivered "hun
dreds of tons of weaponry to the Bosnian 
forces.
The official, speaking on condition of 
anonymity, took issue with a Post asser
tion that Iran is carrying out the deliver
ies with the tacit acceptance of the 
Clinton administration.
He pointed out that Congress has pro
hibited U.S. forces from enforcing the 
embargo. The fact that we are barred 
from enforcing it hardly means we are 
tacitly accepting the reported Iranian 
shipments, the official said.
At the White House, Press Secretary 
Mike McCurry said there is a lot of 
circumstantial evidence that the Bosnian 
government has had access to small arms 
and ammunition.
They clearly have come from some
where, McCurry said. It would not be 
surprising if it was discovered that they 
had come from Iran.
Asked why the administration has not 
raised the alleged embargo violation with 
the United Nations, McCurry said infor
mation obtained confidentially cannot 
always be shared with U.N. members.
While reaffirming U.S. support for 
Security Council resolutions that en
force the embargo, McCurry said the 
U.S. has consistently noted that the 
measure unfairly penalizes the Mus
lims.
It would be inaccurate to suggest that 
we look positively on any violation of the 
arms embargo, he said.
Tokyo police raid 
cult hideouts
TOKYO, April 14 (D J)  Police today 
raided more than 130 facilities of the 
cult suspected in the nerve gas attack on 
Tokyos subway, and concern grew over 
the cults prophecy of a horrible event 
this weekend.
Some department stores plan to close 
Saturday, the day that cult leader Shoko 
Asahara has predicted a disaster will hit 
Tokyo. In a book published last month, 
Asahara said the event might be an 
earthquake, but police fear the group 
may launch a terrorist attack.
The cult, Aum Shinri Kyo, or Supreme 
Truth, is the chief suspect in the March
20 attack on Tokyos subways, in which 
the nerve gas sarin killed 11 people and 
sickened 5,500 others.
The government has instructed hospi
tals to stockpile sarin antidotes and train 
staff in treatment methods, the Yomiuri 
newspaper reported.
A source close to the sect told the 
Associated Press that followers are pre
paring for a calamity this weekend. 
Tokyos Shinjuku nightclub district is 
regarded as particularly threatened.
Police apparently believe they have 
enough evidence to arrest most of the 
cults top leaders. The cult denies in
volvement.
White House scraps initiative
WASHINGTON, Aprill2 (DJ)Bowingto strong political pressure, the White 
House has decided to scrap, for now, 
part of the reinventing government 
initiative set to be unveiled today by the 
Social Security Administration.
Part of the overhaul was a plan to alter 
the system under which state workers 
determine, on behalf of the federal gov
ernment, whether people qualify for dis
ability benefits. In an effort to improve 
the process, Social Security officials were 
planning to force those states that per
form this work slowly and inefficiently 
to give up their caseloads to more profi
cient states. Another option was to send 
out the work to private firms.
Both ideas ran into strong opposition. 
States like the $1 billion disability-determination program because, while it 
is funded at the federal level, they get to 
hand out the jobs. Theres obviously 
concern among state officials about 
changing the arrangement, said Toni 
Lenane, chief policy officer at the Social 
Security Administration.
Meanwhile, the American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employ
ees, which enjoys a particularly close 
relationship with the White House, also 
beefed about the idea of turning the 
program over to the private sector. 
Nearly 13,000 state workers  many of 
them union membersare employed in 
the program. Yesterday, the federations 
president, Gerald McEntee, met at the 
White House with Deputy Chief of Staff 
Harold Ickes and other Clinton officials 
to make clear where the union stands.
The result of the pressure, officials 
said, is that neither option will be an
nounced today. Instead, the Social Secu
rity Administration will arrange for more 
efficient states to give technical assis
tance to weaker ones. We think we can 
make significant progress with this step, 
said Elaine Kamarck, an aide to Vice 
President A1 Gore, who is heading up 
the administrations reinventing gov
ernment effort.
Clinton asks for education money
WASHINGTON, April 12 (DJ) -1 
speech marking the 50th anniversary( 
Franklin Delano Roosevelts death 
President Clinton said that any tax-cu 
bill passed by Congress should includ 
benefits for education expenses.
President Clinton made the remark] 
during a speech near the compound 
Warm Springs, Ga., where Roosevi 
died 50 years ago today. His remark 
were monitored in Washington.
Taking note of tax-cut efforts beinj 
made by the Republican Congresi 
Clinton stressed that more progres 
needs to be made in reducing the federi 
budget deficit.
We will do better on the deficit 
Clinton said. But, he added, we can 
do it at the expense of education.
In Congress there has been a lot 
talk about tax cuts, Clinton said. W 
have to worry about how much, and wh 
gets it, and what for.
Any tax cut should have the effect 
lifting incomes over the long-run fo 
most Americans. He repeated his con 
viction that education is the best way 
boost earnings.
Part of any tax bill must be tax relie 
for the cost of education, and I will insis 
on it, and I will not support a legislate 
bill that doesnt have it, Clinton said,
Earthquake hits Texas, N. Mexico
ALPINE, Texas, April 13Texas an 
New Mexico were shaken in an earth 
quake that seismologists believe wi 
the strongest quake to hit Texas in ( 
years.
Jhe quake, which measured 5.6 on th 
Richter scale, was centered in Alpine 
Texas, about 225 miles southeast of E 
Paso in the sparsely populated far west 
em part of Texas.
The earthquake caused slight dam 
age, such as cracks in walls, shattere 
windows, and broken gas mains. Th 
broken gas lines caused some small fires
Resident Dan Akers said that som 
people were hurt by articles falling fron 
walls or bookshelves.
The quake was felt from Roswell, N.M 
to San Antonio, Texas, and as far nort 
as Dallas.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Layout by 
Max Chittister
NEED STORAGE SPACE?
Electronic security for 
each storage room
Complete line of U-Haul 
trucks available
24 hours for sprinkler 
and security systems
call 683-5650
OAKLAND
750 S. MILLVALE AVE.
Storage space available with: 
air circulation, heat, low humidity
call 441-5983
SHADYSIDE
5873 CENTRE AVE.
HI
r
Cf.MTRE AVE.
One Month Free Rent!
Refer a friend get one month free. Limit one free month per customer. Not valid with any other offe^
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 19953
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
CMU opens new research institute
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
On April 12, a ceremony was 
held to mark the opening of the 
Carnegie Mellon Research Insti
tute (CMRI) at the Pittsburgh 
Technology Center. The Pitts
burgh Technology Center, which 
is currently composed of three 
buildings, is situated near the 
Monongahela River on the Jones 
and Laughlin mill site.
The center was established in 
1983 through the purchase of the 
48-acre site by the Urban Rede
velopment Authority. The $25.3 
million in funding needed for this 
purchase came from city and state 
sources. Construction of the 
CMRI building at the site was 
completed at the end of1994. The 
University of Pittsburghs Biotech 
Center and Union Switch and 
Signal research facilities have 
also been constructed at the PTC 
site. William Kaufman, vice presi
dent for Applied Research at Car
negie Mellon, said that there is 
discussion of a fourth building to 
be built on the site, but it is still 
in the discussion stages.
Among those at the ceremony 
on April 12 were Mayor of Pitts
burgh Tom Murphy, CMU 
President Robert Mehrabian, 
Kaufman, and Robert Zeigler of 
the U.S. Steel Corporation. 
Kaufman said to think of this 
new building as a new bridge in 
Pittsburgh between... the indus
trial needs and university re
search.
In a press release, Mehrabian 
spoke on a similar note, We want 
our new building to say to the 
region and to the nation that 
Carnegie Mellon is committed to 
the belief that riverfront devel
opment holds the potential to in
tegrate Pittsburghs natural ecopeople have moved into the new 
building. We think we will have 
... 100 [personnel], Kaufman 
said.
The construction of the CMRI 
building was done in such a way 
as to allow for further expansion. 
Kaufman said, provisions were 
made ... to expand the building 
westward if necessary. In addiWe expect that companies will 
come to this site in order to do re
search and advanced development in 
engineering activities.
 William Kaufman, VP for Applied 
Research at CMU
nomic revitalization.
The CMRI building itself is five 
stories high and covers 88,000 
square feet. It contains numer
ous offices as well as research 
laboratories. The building took 
eight months to build and cost 
approximately $16 million.
Although relocation to the new 
site began in mid-January, the 
official opening was held last 
week. Kaufman said that last 
weeks opening was really just 
that, a formal ceremony to dedi
cate the site. Approximately 85
tion, CMRI hopes to grow our 
programs and size of our staff. 
Regarding future expansion of 
the Pittsburgh Technology Cen
ter, Kaufman said that we ex
pect that companies will come to 
this site in order to do research 
and advanced development in 
engineering activities.
Although the building and lo
cation for the CMRI are new, the 
institute itself has had a long 
life as part of the University, 
Kaufman said. The CMRI ex
plores areas of research such as
Crime and Incident Report
3/31 SUSPICIOUS PERSON,
2:36 pm. Campus Police was in
formed that a black male fitting 
the description of the male who 
exposed himself on 3/28 was in 
the Hunt Library. The full de
scription given was a black male, 
tan coat, knit hat, no glasses, and 
a scruffy beard. Officers re
sponded to the library, where the 
male was found on the second 
floor, he was sitting at one of the 
desks on the Frew Street side. He 
said that he is unemployed and 
homeless, and stays at various 
shelters in the Pittsburgh area. 
He stated that he was doing re
search for employment. Campus 
Security informed him that CMU 
is private property and if he came 
back, he would be cited or physi
cally arrested for Defiant Tres
pass. He asked for permission to 
come on campus to file an appli
cation for employment, and was 
told that he could do so.
4/3 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
6:23 am. An officer was dis
patched to Baker Hall 232, where 
a complainant stated that he was 
having a problem with the lock 
on the door.
He believed that someone had
put something in the lock. It was 
discovered that someone had put 
super glue in the lock. A further 
check revealed that rooms 232A
- H, J, K, L, M, and Q had all been 
tampered with. ABM employees 
stated that there were no prob
lems while they were in the rooms 
the evening before.
4/7 INSTITUTIONAL VAN
DALISM, 3:10 pm. The report
ing officer entered the basement 
of the Student Center at the Drill 
Deck, where he saw a white male 
standing at the east wall of the 
Drill Deck near the north comer. 
He had his hand on or next to the 
wall at an area where a dark 
rectangular section was located. 
The officer heard a snap as though 
a piece of glass was breaking. 
The male then walked away from 
the wall with what appeared to 
be Plexiglas in his hands. The 
officer asked him for a reason for 
what he did; the male said It is 
Plexiglas.
4/9 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 12:27 am. A very loud 
snippet of music was heard com
ing from Morewood Gardens ETower facing Forbes Avenue. The
product and process improve
ment, environmental projects, 
and transportation safety and 
efficiency.
The building will not house 
classrooms, although several 
graduate students are working 
on the on-going projects taking 
place at the institute.
Kaufman noted that before 
moving into the Pittsburgh Tech
nology Center, the faculty and 
staff associated with CMRI were 
in the Mellon Institute building 
and other buildings in Oakland. 
With the new CMRI building, all 
of the resources and personnel 
from the previous buildings have 
been consolidated.
Kaufman added that another 
benefit for CMRI is that, with the 
new building, we have a very 
well designed facility to meet our 
problematic needs.
The relocation has also neces
sitated the implementation of 
several accommodations for the 
faculty and personnel who will be 
separated from the main CMU 
campus at the new site.
First, people wishing to go to 
the CMRI building will be able to 
take the University of Pittsburgh 
shuttle to the Pittsburgh Tech
nology Center with a valid CMU 
ID.
In addition, special parking 
passes have been allotted to mem
bers of the CMRI organization 
who have to travel to the main 
campus.
loud playbacks were heard sev
eral times throughout the night 
and many times the night before. 
All of the previous snippets had 
included profanity and crude subject matter. The source of the 
sound was narrowed down to one 
of several rooms on the seventh 
floor.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report un
der the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter who types the re
port.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, and suspects 
and fraternity names are omitted 
from the printed report. Ethnic 
descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the con
text of a complete description.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
MAX CfflTTISTER
Corrections
In the article entitled 
Fraternitys Booth Col
lapses, AEPis booth chair 
was identified as Jeffrey 
Burns. The persons name is 
Jeffrey Byrne.
In last weeks Student Sen
ate Minutes, it was announced 
that Stanley Klepper would 
be speaking on April 18. The 
speaker will be Stephen 
Klepper.
The article in the Spring 
Carnival edition entitled, 
PiKAmen defend title; Spirit 
wins second; SDC shocks with 
third place finish in finals, 
Susan Watson was incorrectly 
listed as one of the writers. 
The second writer was 
Sharmila Venkatasubban.
The Tartan corrects all 
known errors of fact. If you 
know of an error, please con
tact Lauren Heinz at x8-2111, 
or write her in care of The 
Tartan.
Please 
recycle this 
newspaper
Toll charges may apply if calling from outside the 412 area code.
Pittsburgh's BRILLIANT ALL NEW TELEPHONE DATING service is HERE!
COMPLETELY FREE!!
CALL NOW FOR THIS SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER!!
College students meet with Clinton
Whether you're looking 
for someone to share 
your life or just 
something casual, start 
finding your someone 
right now.
Call Telepersonals, the 
confidential, comfortable, 
personal way to meet a 
new friend, a lover or just 
someone to kick back and 
unwind with.
Why call Telepersonals?
With voice personals from 
hundreds of men and 
women, you'll find the 
someone that's right for 
you. Best of all, you can 
get to know each other 
safely and discreetly by 
exchanging voice messages
Tele
or connecting live one-toone through Telepersonals. 
That way you'll know if you 
click before you meet.
Its free to browse 
through the ads or just to 
call to find out more. Its 
also free to record your 
own voice ad describing 
who you are and the type 
of person youre looking 
for. And for a limited time 
only its also completely 
free to send or pick up 
messages or connect live 
with other callers.
Make a connection the 
relaxed and easy way 
through Telepersonals.
Click with someone today.
ersonals
MEN CALL WOMEN CALL14,2 434-5000 (4,21434-5050
Atlanta Los Angeles Minneapolis New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh 
St Louis San Francisco San Jose Montreal Toronto Vancouver
[Ed. Note-Membersfrom the college media were invited to spend 
a day at the White House. The Tartan sent its business manager, 
Amit Kar. The following are his reflections on the days events.]
By AMIT KAR
Tartan Business Manager
The White House hosted what was officially termed the 
College Media Day on March 23. The event, whichlasted all day, 
was attended by 150 college newspaper representatives from all 
over the United States, including a few that made the commute 
from Alaska. Many prominent senior officials, including the 
Attorney General, Janet Reno, and Secretary of Labor, Robert 
Reich, spoke with the college press on many of the current and 
critical issues.
The highlight of the days activities was a forum with Presi
dent Clinton, who gave a short speech, answered a few ques
tions, and later met with all the newspaper representatives.
Reich pointed to the increasing disparity between social 
strata in the United States as the main incentive for maintain
ing educational assistance. He presented some startling data in 
order to make his point, Reich said that the average salary of all 
the major economic groups in the U.S. at least doubled between 
the years of 1950 and 1978. However, since then, the top 20 
percent of the population enjoyed 97 percent of the family 
income growth and the other 80 percent has shared the remain
ing three percent.
Reich added that in the same time span (79-present), the 
average college graduates income has grown from 40 percent to 
80 percent greater than the average high school graduate.
Prior to Reich, the Chief External Affairs Officer for the 
Corporation of National Service spoke on behalf ofthe Americorps 
program, a domestic equivalent of the Peace Corps in which 
members spend two years serving the community and in return 
earn financial assistance for higher education. Allen mentioned 
that to strip the Americorps down now would cripple an organi
zation that has done a lot of social work and that such a threat 
is the greatest expression of contempt for a generation.
The Presidents speech, in which he detailed his New Cov
enant program for striving toward economic parity, was next. 
He said that at its core, the New Covenant is an ability to create 
more opportunity and a willingness of our citizens to accept 
more responsibility. After the speech, President Clinton ad
dressed questions from the college press about a range of 
subjects,from Affirmative Action and population diversity to 
whether or not Arkansas would be going to the NCAA Champi
onship basketball game.
The day was wrapped up by a panel discussion with George 
Stephanapolous (Strategy andPolicy Advisor), Kathym Higgins 
(Cabinet Affairs Assistant to the President), and Mark Gearan 
(Strategic Planning and Communications Director). The panel 
took the opportunity, in a more interactive way, to reaffirm the 
Democrats arguments against such current Republican pro
grams as the Contract with America and reductions in Federal 
Aid Programs. Unlike the preyious speakers, who seemed to be 
presenting with a set agenda, the panel came across as-conver
sational and ready to address any issue.
The College Media Day was an opportunity for the Clinton 
Administration to re-establish the contact with the youngest 
voting generation it had fostered during the 92 campaign. By 
inviting the college press to the White House and acting with 
them in almost every respect as influential members of the 
countrys media system, the Clinton administration took advan
tage of a tremendous resource that is often overlooked by 
Washington.The qustion remains as to whether or not Clinton 
has done enough to ingratiate himself with the college-age 
voting population. He had lost touch with this group since the 
days of his appearance on MTV and it seemed that once again, 
the issues that affected the youth of this country directly were 
being discussed with little concern for how informed the group 
itself was of all the developments.
A College Media Day is something that should be repeated for 
two reasons: because it keeps the future leaders of the country 
in touch with the issues, and because one hand shake with the 
President preceded by some blatant propaganda never changed 
anyones mind.
SUMMER
STORAGE
Pick-up
Available
471-1144
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Euraii Passes
Tfraewacsabu 
gewacbWt kae2wsah
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
IM Coes not pre-screen its callers and assumes no liability when meeting with someone through its service. Adults 18 years of age or older only Free to call within the 412 area code.
6 LICK
pam

---------------------------------------------------

Its One Of The Most Useful Credit Cards On The
Planet. Unless Youve Stolen It. Your MasterCard is stolen. You panic. You
MasterCai
get angry. You panic some more. Then you call and cancel it. Now the thief is s*ia s&t -$0
m possession
0000 EftS 2/96 SAND Y GLASER
of, oh, about seven cents worth of stolen plastic. (Maybe he can use it as a
coaster when he entertains at the hideout.) So relax. You only have
to pay for stuff that you bought, and you can even get a new card
the next day.* Itll be accepted at millions of locations, one of
which must sell wallets,  MasterCard. Its more than a credit card. Its smart money?
HOT.
Burn, baby, burn disco inferno.MAC.
Not the burger, palthe killer computer.DEALS.
Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey.
16MB RAM/700MB bard drive. CD-ROM drive, 
15" color display, keyboard and mouse.
Macintosh Performa 636 w/CD
8 MB RAM/250 MB bard drive, CD-ROM 
drive, 14" color display keyboard, mouse 
and all the software youre likely lo need.
Now $1,860
or S31/month
8 MB RAM/350 MB bard drive, CD-ROM 
drive, 15" color display, keyboard, mouse 
and all the software youre likely to need.
PowerBook* 520c w/Modem
12MB RAM/320MB bard drive amd modem.
PAY NOTHING FOR 90 DAYS.
Being a student is hard. So weve made buying a Macintosh easy. So easy, in fact, that prices 
on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. And
with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can take home a Mac" with
out having to make a single payment for up to 90 days. Which means you can also i i 
take home the power to make any student!? life easier. The power to be your best luJUlC W
For more information visit the
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
'Deferred Apple Computer Loan offer expires June 2,1995 A o payment of principal or interest tiill be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day period will be added to the principal and uill bear interest ubicb will be included in the repayment schedule. Monthly payment is an estimate based on a total loan amount of $3,416.93, which includes 
a sample purchase price of $3,229 and a 6.0% loan origination fee for the PowerMacintosh 7100 system sbouw alme. Ite monthly payment for tbe total loan amount described abotv would bai? been $59. The interest is variable based on the commercial paper rate plus 535% For example, the month of February 1995 bad an interest rate of 1157% wilb an 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of1332% Tbe monthly payment and tbe APR sbouv assumes 90-day deferment ofprincipal and interest as described a boi v, and no other deferment ofprincipal and docs not indude state sales lax. Product prices, produci ai liability, loan amounts and sales Uixes may vary. The Apple Computer Loan has an 8-year loan term wilb no 
prepayment penalty and is subject to crvdil approval. Prcqualifecalion expedites tbe loan process but does not guarantee final loan approval.1995Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, tbe Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Performa, PowerBook, LaserWriter Select, Color Styleuriter and Tbe power to be your best" are registered trademarks ofApple 
Computer, Inc. Power Macintosh and Mac are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. All Apple products are designed to be accessible to individuals uitb disability. To learn more (US only), call 800-776-2333 or TDD 800-833-6223.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995 5
President faces five-year review
change student meal plans
Tartan File Photo
A student purchases his meal with one of the many meal plans offered 
at CMU. Next year, those meal plans change.
REVIEW, from page 1
that have taken place during 
jlehrabians tenure. Those 
changes are some of the things 
that Cyert brought to the Uni
versity, said MeConomy.
Hugh Young, a professor of 
physics said, its true that dif
ferent presidents have taken 
different roles. One of Cyerts 
was to initiate new research... 
[and that was an] important 
contribution.
Young said that Mehrabian 
lias paid additional attention 
to the concerns of undergradu
ates and that five years is too 
early to tell how much impact 
lie has made.
Young said that deans and 
department heads, not just the 
president, have been under 
scrutiny to ensure the mainte
nance of high standards, and 
the search for academic excel
lence.
CMU has a history of longtenured presidents, and Young 
said Mehrabian has continued 
traditions started in other ad
ministrations like community 
involvement, programs like the 
economic redevelopment of 
Western Pennsylvania, discus
sions with community leaders, 
and a relationship between 
CMU and local industry.
Mehrabian is also about to 
lead CMU in a major new fond 
raiser to increase the 
University's endowment. The 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette re
ported the figure is hoped to be 
close to $340 million by the 
year 2000. Young said he is 
able to deal with problems ei
ther departmentally, or at the 
college (in this case, MCS) level.
As far as day to day contact, 
Young said, I rarely have occa
sion to go to the president, but 
I would be perfectly comfort
able [doing so].
Young addressed the ques
tion of accessibility, saying, it 
is the nature that the president 
is not as accessible, and 
stressed that this is not a criti
cism.
Young said that Mehrabian 
is probably very, very busy 
and also has to keep in contact 
with the off-campus world like 
members of local industry and 
the community.
As for Mehrabians personal 
goals, he said, Things that you 
look for are the academic and 
financial health of the Univer
sity, and he said currently 
CMUs is very sound. You also 
look at how well were serving 
our students, their educational 
needs, and how well were serv
ing society at large through our 
research efforts, and how we 
serve our own community, he 
said.
Mehrabian said he feels he 
has had a good working rela
tionship with members of the 
faculty and staff, and said, as 
president of a university, my 
job is to nurture and guide the 
University, and anything that 
is not productive for the Uni
versity is not good.
When asked how he feels he 
has done in the office for the 
past five years, he said, that is 
what the Trustees should de
termine.
[Ed. Note  Tartan Copy 
Manager Eric Strauss assisted 
with this article.]
CMOS to
By MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
In an effort to improve student 
satisfaction and decrease a finan
cial deficit, CMU Dining Services 
is redesigning its meal plans for 
next year.
In 1993, under former Director 
of Dining Services Roger Heydt, 
the setup of the meal plans 
changed. Before they had been 
traditional; that is, there was 
no carry-over of meals from se
mester to semester. The students 
were not satisfied with this situ
ation, so the meal plans were 
changed to their present setup. 
This has placed CMU as one of 
very few schools that allows carry
over from semester to semester.
However, once the changes took 
effect, two things happened. Din
ing costs rose, and revenue and 
sales declined. This created an 
increasing deficit.
Director of Dining Services 
Mark Hamlin said that the chal
lenge had been to find a balance 
between convincing people to use 
the facilities and insuring that 
enough people are using them to 
make money. Since money is cur
rently being lost, the balance has 
not been achieved.
Because the deficit is so large, 
there is a possibility that some 
programs could be cut if the defi
cit does not improve. Dining Ser
vice facilities ... are not designed 
to be subsidized, Hamlin said. 
Money has been drawn from other 
departments in order to pay the 
bills. In an effort to decrease the 
deficit and eliminate subsidizing 
by the University, Dining Ser
vices will be unveiling a new set 
of meal plans for next semester.
Before the new plans were de
signed, there were two stages to 
the research performed. Hamlin 
said, that in the first stage, which
occurred in late January, a crew 
of Marriott consultants came to 
campus to survey and interview 
students, faculty, staff, and din
ing employees in order to find 
what the expectations are. In 
mid-March, the consultants re
turned with their data, which they 
presented to Dining Services.
One of the key components ... 
is to define win situations for as 
many parties as possible, Hamlin 
said. This includes attempting to 
reduce the deficit.
Under the new setup, the Con
stant Pass will be eliminated, 
since it was an unreasonable 
expectation that students only 
eat at Highlander Cafe, said 
Hamlin. The new plans will con
sist of 14,12, and 10 block meals 
per week, with some DineXpress
credit attached. It has not yet 
been decided how much 
DineXpress will be allocated to 
each plan.
First-year students will be the 
only students required to have a 
meal plan. Upperclassmen will 
not be required to buy meal plans, 
although that is typical at a lot 
of other universities, Hamlin 
noted.
Hamlin does not want to revert 
back to the old system where 
meals dont carry over to the next 
semester. Therefore, DineXpress 
will roll over from semester to 
semester, but not to the next year. 
The details on how [block] meals 
roll over ... have not been ham
mered out yet, Hamlin ex
plained. At the end of the year, 
there will be specials and premi
ums available in order for stu
dents to use the DineXpress 
money before it expires.
There will be flexibility as to 
what times of day the meals can 
be used; it will not be mandatory 
to use blocks at certain times of 
day, Hamlin said.
There will be other meal plans 
available for upperclassmen who 
still want meal plans. Plans with
10, seven, or five block meals a 
week with or without DineXpress 
will be made available.
The prices of the meal plans 
are unknown at this time.
Hamlin said that a survey will 
be sent to students when it is 
time to purchase meal plans. This 
survey will help students and 
their parents figure out how of
ten the student eats on campus, 
and therefore what meal plan is 
most economical.
Hamlin said that the use of 
CampusXpress at Dining Ser
vices outlets would not be af
fected.
Brenden Mielke, IM freshman 
and chair of the Presidential Com
mittee on Dining, said The new 
meal plans offer a greater deal of 
flexibility than the current ones 
and they could possibly help alle
viate the financial burdens that 
dining services faces which cur
rently limit possibilities that din
ing services could offer. They fit 
more in line with what I would 
expect.
Hamlin said that the goal is 
not try to oversell the meal plans 
... This is not what this is about. 
Its about trying to [encourage] 
students to spend their dollars on 
campus... and also trying to con
tinue improving our operations, 
the variety [and] quality of foods 
available, and our hours of opera
tion. We still have a ways to go, 
but I feel we have made ... good 
progress.
Is Data Communications Disconnecting All Student Dorm Connections??? 
Effective May 22, 1995...
All Current Network Connections For Students In 
On-Campus Housing Will Be Disconnected
Students can prevent a disruption in their networking services by preregistering their next data outlet activation. On April 24 and 25, 1995. 
between 9:00 and 4:30, in the lobby of the Student Center, Data 
Communications will have a staff member with a computer ready to 
assist students in completing network pre-registrations for summer and 
fall data outlet activations. Pre-registering your next network connection 
will assure that an outlet activation is ready and waiting in your new 
room when you return to campus.
Who needs to pre-register?
Any student who wants an active network connection:
 After May 22nd
 For a Summer Session
 For Fall Semester
What you need to know to pre-register:
 The building and room you will be living in next
 The phone number in that room
 The specific outlet location in the room
 Information about your computer
If you cant make it April 24 or 25, there are two other ways 
to pre-register:
 You can use a WWW page to both obtain data outlet 
numbers and submit your pre-registration electronically.
The URL is:
http://www.net.cmu.edu/registration/student.html
 Or you can submit a paper Pre-Registration form available 
in Cyert Hall 102. Only completed forms will be processed.
What if I dont pre-register?
Pre-registration is not mandatory, its just a good idea that can save 
students from having to wait for an outlet activation during the 
busiest time of the year. DataComm received over 1200 activation 
requests last fall, sometimes at a rate of 300 per week. This can 
cause delays of up to two full weeks to process a network activation. 
Data Communications can minimize delays by activating connections 
the week prior to student arrival, and have an active outlet waiting 
for you if you pre-register.
Starting the week of May 22, 1995 Data Communication will begin 
to activate summer pre-registrations.
For more assistance:
General information about campus networking issues 
can be found by:
 looking on DataComms WWW page at:
http: / / www.net. emu. edu/ datacomm/ home. html
 calling Data Communications at X8-2635
 sending mail to dc0m@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University17 April 1995
Administration efforts 
need follow-through
What does the word change 
mean at Carnegie Mellon? Does 
it mean instantaneous improve
ment, a better CMU at your feet 
when you wake up each morn
ing? Or does it mean planning 
for long-term improvements? 
This question seems to be at the 
root of the tension produced by 
the administrations efforts to 
change the fundamental prob
lem plaguing the Carnegie 
Mellon community: student sat
isfaction.
The task of increasing student 
satisfaction seems insurmount
able at times. However, the ad
ministration has apparently 
taken a new direction in tack
ling this issue. Coinciding with 
the ideology that student satis
faction is our problem, belong
ing to the administration, stu
dents, faculty, and staff, the 
powers that be at CMU have 
begun integrating extensive stu
dent surveys into the process 
used to evaluate campus life. 
Recall Residence Lifes Quality 
of Life survey, Retail Services 
pricing survey, and Dining Ser
vices comment cards as ex
amples of the administrations 
attempt to garner student in
put. These efforts are admirable, 
as student satisfaction is our 
problem, and neither the administration nor the student 
body can remedy the problem 
alone.
However, it seems that the 
only current actions beingtaken 
to improve quality of life and 
student satisfaction at CMU is 
the surveying - but what will 
follow? The surveys will be re
viewed, the facts compiled, and 
the statistics computed and 
probably publicized. But what 
action will the Carnegie Mellon 
community, and its administra
tion in particular, take in re
sponse to the attitudes and opin
ions that currently poison the 
spirit and possible success of 
CMU as a major force in the 
academic world? The fundamen
tal problems that CMU faces  
a skewed male-female ratio, stu
dent negativity, a low student 
retention rate, plummeting na
tional rankings, and an overall, 
campus-wide feeling of discon
tent  are not easy to deal with. 
However, change is needed, and 
the efforts that the administra
tion has made to unearth the 
roots of our problems are to be 
applauded.
But are these efforts enough? 
Several concerns are involved 
in this question. For one thing, 
will the scores of surveys and 
student think tank groups ever 
amount to anything? Data col
lected is essentially lost if not 
applied to a solution. Although 
students do appreciate being 
involved in such surveys, we 
hope that these efforts have been 
made in order to institute 
change, and not simply to raise 
good press and public opinion. A 
mirage of empty efforts will not 
amount to change and is a seri
ous disservice to the students.
Many are also concerned about 
when changes will take place. 
Many students, however intol
erant, want immediate change. 
Unfortunately, the
administrations strategy for 
implementing change  a pro
cess of research is not compat
ible with the concept of immedi
ate change. In addition, many 
changes that are needed are not 
the kind of things that can be 
changed within a semester  
many changes may take ten 
years. Forinstance, the students 
who fought and begged for the 
new University Center will 
never use it as CMU students. 
Although we understand that 
the administration is in a catch22, every effort must be made to 
insure a future for change and 
improvement, if at least to keep 
the frustration of seeing no ac
tion from snowballing.
It is imperative that we all 
realize that the problems we 
face as a community are shared 
by each one of us - they are not 
the sole responsibility of the 
Administration, Student Af
fairs, or the Student Body. For 
that reason, ifwe expectchange, 
we should expect to give of our
selves. We implore every mem
ber of the Carnegie Mellon com
munity to risk their time and 
energy to react to their own com
plaints: change will not happen 
on its own.
Carnival committee 
should be commended
There was a great deal of ap
prehension surrounding Spring 
Carnival this year. People feared 
it would not be a success. After 
all, it was in a new location and 
there was no headlining band. 
In hindsight, it is obvious that 
Carnival was a huge success, 
and this can be attributed to the 
hard work, unity, and commit
ment of the Carnival Commit
tee.
Members of the Carnival Com
mittee could be seen roaming 
the Midway at all hours of the 
day and night. They were also 
the people who were running 
around taking care of lastminute problems and maldng 
sure that everyone else was enjoyingthemselves. These people 
gave up a lot of time, both before
Unde "Bob S^
I Iwt you
rnl kJ*  WN ,, 
ftiily! im Wl'W
I'm bus*/ Wsy ,fe,-i
ne;
ari. 5  ".
* VP t^nev/
-+Vvey Ve WitA M -H*
diM}V Ia iY*+*..
(U !AXhLui c/{u
l|F m'a M-L So HPiPpY u/hfy Do TKY HM Tb V.EZP REMi|J D1M& US?
Letters to the Editor
Readings don't 
appeal to all
I5G
Letter to the Editor
and during Carnival, to make 
sure one of the greatest campus 
events of the year was running 
smoothly.
The security at Carnival was 
also well-handled. Many people 
were on duty  students, cam
pus police, and members of Stu
dent Affairs. It was great to see 
all of these groups work to
gether.
It was also great that the committee brought back the 
entryway sign to the Midway. It 
had been a tradition when Car
nival was held on the IM fields, 
and to see it at Morewood pro
vided an excellent sense of con
tinuity. It also helped to empha
size the theme and made the 
opening ceremonies all the more 
significant.
Editor:
111 be the first to ap
plaud efforts to defame 
the insidious practice 
of Buggy because its 
an activity which has 
claimed an exorbitant 
number of my hangovers during my two 
years at CMU. However, I have to take 
exception to the narrow-mindedness, nay 
absurdity of Andrew Sproules Reading 
Series Deserves More Attention(4/10/ 
95). Forgive my caustic aplomb, but if 
youre going to serve poison at a tea party 
expect some acid in your biscuits.
Apparently, Sproule, youre of the opin
ion that what you enjoy, what you divine 
in your mystic sandbox as the epitome of 
culture and intelligible discourse, is the 
standard for the rest of this campus and 
to the throngs of trogloditic sophists who 
enjoy little models of male genitalia on 
wheels with little people inside of them 
being pushed around a track. Up yours, 
get some culture, come see the reading 
series, this campus bites because you 
arent exposing yourself to the world of 
reading. Well arent we the little minx. 
Ill tell you what, Sproule. If youll go to 
a WWF Supercade with me, Ill join you 
and your erudite friends in a cup of 
cappuccino while listening to Ginsburg 
spout his tripe that really only made 
sense in the 70s because everyone was 
running around fully cocked with their 
phallus between their legs screaming 
Free Love, Free Love. Dont get me 
wrong, Im sure that was a great time, 
and Im sure that the readings on cam
pus are a great time too... for you. And 
Buggy is a great time for other people. 
For me its a bottle of wine, a spaghetti 
western, and overt heterosexuality with 
a few of my close friends.
What Im saying is that you have your 
tastes and I have mine. If you dont want 
to join me and The Zinfendel on the couch 
so be it, but dont use the Tartan as a 
sounding board to try and censure people 
for what they enjoy. If you want to report 
how cool the readings are, when they are, 
whos speaking, etc. then our school news
paper is a great place. If you want to sit 
and compare hobbies ... theres a reason 
why no one shows up OK And its you, 
Sproule. You and your elitist type pour
ing Bactine on the wounds of your artis
tic sensibility. Well let me apologize for 
all those nights I left you and those great 
authors alone without my company. I 
didnt know youd care enough to try to 
guilt me into showing up. I just thought 
it would be enough for you to enjoy it. I 
figured you would be happy to sit and 
listen intently as women discussed their 
vaginas without me having to join you in 
the whole (forgive the allusion) sticky 
mess. I guess you need to drag the rest of 
us along to enjoy the vaginas. Alright, 
fine.
I wish you could change attitudes over
night also. Im tired of the diversity of 
life. All the individualism, all the free 
thought, all the individual pleasures. 
Oh, how I wish Maharajah Sproule would 
come and take my free will away and 
replace it with his brand of kicks. I just 
dont want to be me any more. Please tell 
me what activities to enjoy. I so need the 
quality of my opinions dictated to me
Finally, to the idea that the readings 
should be closed to all but English 
students...you know Sproule, having 
read your article the factthatYOU would 
suggest this course of action doesnt sur
prise me. Ive never been part of a coun
try club and I dont aspire to be part of a 
Fortune Anything Company so I guess I 
just dont feel the anguish of being ex
cluded from your reindeer games. Im 
not going to toss and turn tonight be
cause I missed a reading I wouldnt have 
gone to in the first place. I doubt Im 
going to commit ritual suicide because 
Im not welcome at the Sproule Home 
For Haughty English Majors. I think 
that its an affront to my intellect and to 
my pocketbook that you wasted space in 
The Tartan for that opinion. I would 
hope that in the future this space would 
be spared for people with gripes that are 
outside the realm of catty aspersions to 
this communitys taste.
Warren Berrey
Sophomore
IM
Editorial poorly 
represents bands
Editor:
UtttntothMHor
Stadw.tCinttfHocraii
Letter to the Editor
I am writing in re
sponse to several dis
paraging articles 
printed in the April 3 
issue concerning Yo La 
Tengo. I dont have a 
strong opinion on the band one way or 
the other, but my opinion of the band 
has no bearing on my embarrassment 
for our school newspaper. I was thor
oughly unimpressed with the standard 
of journalism displayed in articles that 
provided slander and misinformation.
Carnival band choice reflects poor 
planning is an epitome of poor journal
ism. Not only is the article pessimistic, 
but its dedication to providing unin
formed opinions is disquieting. The ar
ticle takes aim at the organizations 
responsible for booking bands, charg
ing that there is no excuse for messing 
up Spring Carnival, but does not offer 
the opposing viewpoint. The only refer
ence made to the balancing opinion is 
that they have offered excuses, but they 
are unacceptable. A reader interested 
in the content of the article would want 
to know what some of these unaccept
able excuses are, instead of simply sub
jecting himself to jotted down rants.
The references to Doug Mosurak, the 
first-year concert chair, informed me 
that the author did no research. Despite 
contrary statements that he has never 
attended Carnival, Mosurak has been 
an active member of the CMU commu
nity for years, growing up with CMU 
carnivals. In answer to the proposed 
question, how can a first-year student 
lead the hunt in finding bands for an 
event he has never experienced, 
Mosurak has spent his formative years 
as a member of the Pittsburgh music 
community. He is a veteran member of 
WRCT music staff, co-runs the local 
Peas Kor record label, and has already 
spent the semester establishing a regu
lar Saturday concert series of highly 
profiled independent music acts.
Further statements that the commit
tee seems afraid of attracting a large
number of people from off-campus to th 
concert, displays the authors ability t 
speculate and have, again, not provided 
any information to the reader. The fat 
is that the committee has spent its el 
forts trying to find a band that will offe 
Carnival goers entertainment and no 
necessarily just a name to slap on T 
shirts. There is more out there tha 
Buzz Bins and Alternative Nation 
There is quality music by people thi 
are adept at playing their instrument 
and channeling emotion and thought t 
their listeners, and a lot of it isnt tarpe 
over the public by missile manufacture 
who moonlight as major labels. Mosun 
and the rest of the committee have dedij 
cated themselves to providing an a( 
that will stand before our thin crowds ( 
students and give us everything the 
have. They wont haggle over the coi 
tract or tag along their labels next put 
licity clown. Theyll play music for ou 
benefit, and whether you like their ex 
pressive content or not, you cannot den 
that they offered you the opportunity.
The statement that the money shoul 
be going toward a good cause instead 
a bunch of Pittsburgh bands playing i 
a lecture hall, could perhaps be th 
most offensive statement made. Th 
author has implied that his concern fo 
the media driven popularity contests 
a better use of the money than suppori 
ing Pittsburghs phenomenal indepet 
dent scene. Pittsburghs output into th 
indie-rock scene is extremely impre: 
sive. Our city has been a home for sue 
talented musicians as the Cynics, Wim 
Factor 14, the Karl Hendricks Trit 
Hurl, blunderbuss, Vehicle Flips, Wi 
ter Shed, Davenport, Anti-flag, Liqui 
Brick, and Submachine. The concert 
have not always been in Doherty 2311 
as the article would suggest, and a ma 
jority of the bands that have playe 
have not been from Pittsburgh, 
like the Gaunt, Thomas Jefferson Slav 
Apartments, Samuel, Kerosene 454, an 
Dis are bands that are receiving nt 
tional exposure, even from sources sue 
as MTV.
Instead of complaining that we didn 
get Pearl Jam this year, or that th| 
didnt resurrect Kurt Cobain for ou 
listening pleasure, we should be a\ 
plauding the committees success 
booking bands that will appeal to lari 
audiences because they perform mus 
from their heart. Yo La Tengo and Bii 
Skala Bim may not have performed 
MTV Unplugged but they are natio? 
ally respected bands and they will fl 
doubt display why theyve earned thi 
respect for us at this Carnival.
In the future, I would appreciate it if 
your newspaper would spend more tii 
editing its columns than typing outj 
poorly conceived attempts at propj 
ganda. I would also appreciate itifyo! 
journalists would at least make an 
tempt at researching the informatu 
they plan on writing. Im sure thj 
Mosaruk would have been more thi 
happy to provide information about wl 
the hell Yo La Tengo is. A college ne 
paper has a duty of providing well bi 
anced articles which feature well rj 
searched information. I hope that tl 
article was not an indication of what 
expect from The Tartan.
Andrew T. Burger 
Freshman 
Design

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 19957
Engineering education exacts expense
Matt Ball
A physicist and an engineer are 
asked to prove that all odd num
bers are prime. The physicist rea:ons, One is prime, three is 
prime, five is prime, seven is 
prime, nine is ... not prime, 11 is 
prime, 13 is prime. Nine is exrimental error; all odd num
bers are prime.
The engineer says, One is 
prime, three is prime, five is 
prime, seven is prime, nine is 
prime, 11 is prime, 13 is prime; 
all odd numbers are prime. 
Engineering education is an odd 
phrase, nearly a misnomer. Hav
ing started in engineering school
nearly a decade ago, and being 
married to a humanities profes
sor (whose research, with per
mission, is the basis of this col
umn), I have noticed several 
things that differentiate a tech
nical program of higher educa
tion from that of the typical 
college experience.
In the course of my Undergradu
ate indoctrination, I did not so 
much learn as I was imparted a 
technical mindset. After four 
quarters of basic physics, calcu
lus, statistics, and dynamics, I 
had my first co-op assignment. 
The night before I was to start, I 
was filled with quite a bit of fear: 
What did I know? Yet on the first 
day, I was doing the same work 
as my office partner (a real en
gineer), teaching myself from the 
vulnerability analysis textbook 
as I went along. Had I continued 
on with that company, nothing I 
subsequently learned in school 
would have increased my compe
tence, especially when compared 
to what I could have learned on 
the job in the same time.
This was the pattern through
out the next four years. I worked 
in the structural analysis lab at 
Pratt & Whitney doing hologra
phy and then went back to school 
and took a course in vibrations. I 
also spent a quarter with the 
advanced gas generator group be
fore I took a course in jet propul
sion (and got a B, I might add).
The implications of this type of 
engineering education are many. 
The first is that, while I worked 
hard to memorize equations for 
the exams, what I took from tech
nical courses was the gist of the 
class. In general, the gist was a 
reductionist view of the world 
(albeit increasingly sophisti
cated) intended to provide an at
titude for approaching problems. 
This serves engineers well when 
they are faced with technical 
problems where there is a spe
cific answer, as in the design of a 
bridge or an aircraft.
Applying this mindset to other 
areas does not serve the student 
as well. The most obvious is in 
non-technical classes, where 
there is no specific answer, no 
final derivation, no single equa
tion to memorize for the exam. To 
participate in a discussion, work 
for personal insight, take part in 
the questfor knowledgethese 
are quite different situations. 
When there is no singular certain 
answer, students often perceive 
any participation in class as 
fraught with the possibility of 
being wrong or seeming foolish. 
This is especially true in courses 
where an action, such as drawing 
or speaking, is the ultimate goal.
Taking away the general con
cepts of a course also creates prob
lems in areas of study that in
volve building on specific facts 
from an earlier course. For ex
ample, absorbing only the atmo
sphere of an introductory course 
in a foreign language leaves be
hind the specifics of grammar, 
vocabulary, and everything else 
necessary to increase ones profi
ciency.
Complicating this is that to 
cram the state of engineering (or 
other specific fields) knowledge 
into four years requires a very 
rigorous program, where other 
classes become required hurdles 
instead of educational experi
ences. Thus, we dont spend four 
years getting an education, but 
rather attending a vocational 
school that serves to impart an 
employable technical temper. 
While this may serve our pocketbooks well, it robs us of an oppor
tunity to learn something more 
than a trade, to experience life 
beyond force diagrams and equa
tions.
Matt Ball is a graduate student 
in CIT.
People, not weapons, responsible for deaths
James Stepanek
Did you just hear something? I think I did. 
It was the sound of the excrement hitting the 
rentilator. Now of course its time for the 
traditional question of, What the hell is 
James blathering about this time? Well, you 
see, a court decision has just been handed 
down which will plunge just about every 
manufacturer of just about anything into a 
litigious nightmare.
In 1993, Gian Luigi Ferri used three guns 
to shoot up the law offices of Petit and Martin 
in San Francisco. One of the weapons he used 
aTec-9 semi-automatic weapon produced 
by Navegar, Inc. of Florida. The weapon was 
banned by California law but had been manu
factured in Florida and sold in Nevada, so 
California law was not broken by any of the 
suppliers, only by Ferri when he brought it to 
California. The wacko killed eight people,
i
wounded six, and then took his own life.
On this past Monday, Superior Court 
Judge James Warren ruled that the 
manufacturer might be held liable for the 
actions of the wacko. The judge ruled this 
on the basis that the gun was banned in 
California, and the company should have 
foreseen that the product might make it 
out there someday. This is the most hare
brained thing I have ever heard. Just 
because California made a gun illegal it 
now causes crime?!? Whats next? If Or
egon outlaws matches, then match manu
facturers can be held responsible for ar
son?
Of course, there are those who will 
think this was a good decision since it will 
strike back against those makers of evil 
assault weapons which cause so much 
havoc out on streets. Well, aside from the 
fact that assault weapons (a term with 
little in the way of a proper definition) are 
used in less than one percent of all gun 
crimes, the implications of this decision 
are truly horrific.
Now, all of you may not understand 
much of how the legal system works here 
in the U.S., but as with most nations it is
based on precedent. This means that 
future cases will be decided with a ten
dency to follow what has been done be
fore: Of course, cases do get handed down 
which change precedent, but this usu
ally has to rely on a higher court. This 
case sets about the worst precedent imag
inable. It throws personal responsibility 
out the window.
You may wish to ask how personal 
responsibility gets tied into a case about 
suing a gun manufacturer. Did the 
weapon accidentally go off and shoot a 
room full of people? No, a man carried it 
through the room gunning people down. 
The man made the decision to shoot 
those people and actively executed his 
plan. The gun didnt take command of 
his faculties and force him to perform the 
nefarious act. The onus of the act is solely 
on the man responsible for committing 
it.
Of course, with this precedent on the 
books, that onus is shifted. You no longer 
are solely responsible for what you do  
the blame can now be spread to whatever 
group can be conveniently tarred. A drunk 
driver mows somebody down  sue the
car company. Your wife takes rat poi
son to kill herself  sue the pesticide 
company. An arsonist soaks the first 
floor of a building in gasoline and 
torches dozens of people  sue the 
petroleum company (everybody hates 
those guys anyway). People are now 
just automatons who are guided by the 
tools they use, not capable of making 
their own decisions and living with the 
consequences of their actions.
The litigants in this case are only 
partially to blame. The judge should 
have known better. They simply want 
revenge. The fact that the kook who 
committed the crime is already dead 
has robbed them of their retribution, so 
they are flailing out against anyone 
who they can pin some blame on. They 
probably dont even vaguely understand 
the nightmare which this will inflict on 
the courts and companies of this na
tion. There is an old adage which quite 
applies to this whole mess. Its a poor 
craftsman who blames his tools.
James Stepanek is a PhD student in 
MSE.
Big-ass exemplifies contemporary changes in language
Tom Harper
Along time ago my AP English 
class read a couple of pieces about 
two differing viewpoints. They 
were both about how the English 
language is changing. One stated 
that it was an aberration. The 
other stated that the language is 
simply evolving.
Then I stumbled across somethingin clari.local.pennsylvania. 
There is a pop culture convention 
ig on in Philadelphia during 
time of this writing. This got 
me thinking: indeed, pop culture 
can effectively change language.
We can see that today with such 
words as Frisbee, Kleenex, 
Ferris Wheel, and such. So we 
could say that language is as the 
culture defines it. A Frisbee 
could easily just be a disc. 
There is one word that I keep 
hearing all the time, and maybe 
this being the intense hotbed of 
American pop culture, prehaps 
we can make valiant strides into 
bringing this word into increased 
acceptance.
The word is big-ass.
Lately, whenever some 
speaker, usually in small com
pany but not always, wants to 
convey the sheer size and magni
tude of a concept, he/she simply 
uses the word big-ass. Even 
David Letterman every so often 
showcases the ever-popular BigAss Ham.
So why doesnt the English
Department call up the Websters 
Dictionary people and demand 
that big-ass be an official word? 
Then we can dispense with the 
stuffy boardroom-meeting for
mal-type voice and tell everyone 
how we really perceive an idea.
Imagine the U.S. House of Rep
resentatives: Newt: We see the 
deficit has become this big-ass 
monster of a drain on our budget, 
and we should take appropriate 
measures to keep it down. All in 
favor? The other 434 members: 
Aye.
There. Society as a whole be
comes better-off because the in
troduction of one word made 
everyone take notice of what was 
being said.
I have also noticed lately that 
big-ass is not the only word that 
can gamer attention. Any word 
with a prefix/suffix/infix ass
adds considerable emphasis to 
any particular sentence, which 
in turn makes the whole conver
sation easier to listen to as a 
whole.
Just think about what would 
happen if that one teacher on 
The Wonder Years used the 
word big-ass in his diatribes. 
The words dumb-ass and even 
stupid-ass convey a larger feel
ing of stupidity than just the word 
dumb. A lazy-ass is someone 
who is exceptionally lazy and con
veys a bigger impression of lazi
ness than lazybones or any other 
such word.
So, used with an adjective or 
adverb or noun, ass can mean 
exceptionally. Matters of how 
ass can flow into/out of certain 
words and phrases can be dis
cussed later. For instance, there 
is no need for ass-omnipresent
or other awkward sounding 
words.
The only issue that remains is: 
does it take a dictionary to show 
acceptance of this word/these 
words? If LAcademie Franaise 
says that a word is simply hot a 
word, then it is not an official 
French word. Now, we could get 
into an issue of defying author
ity, but that would fill up the 
page.
Any English masters / doctoral 
student who wishes to interview 
sophomore Tom Harper, physics / 
CS major and English minor, 
about his views on this subject for 
his/her thesis I dissertation can 
mail him at th2n. Tom would 
also like to note that he has set the 
record for Most Hyphens / Quo
tation Marks I Slashes in one 
Tartan column.
For many students, Carni
val is a time to take a break 
from the stress of school and 
enjoy the festivities. With the 
occurence of a myriad of ac
tivities and funny moments, 
we asked Carnival-goers to: 
Describe your best mo
ment at Carnival.
Neeraj Bansal 
Sophomore 
ECE
When one of my monitors 
radioed me in and said someone 
was having sex in the port-opotty.
Ann Sluzhevsky
Freshman
CS
It would probably be the 
Frankenstein show.
Wing Tat Yu
Sophomore
Psychology
A pretty girl posed for me.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Michael Breen
Sophomore
CS
It would have to be when I 
was working at the A Phi O 
booth, and the funnel cake line 
was three miles long, and I was 
making cakes.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie MeHon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Ed...............Edward Hayes
Forum Editor....Kristine Hinrichs
Sports Editor.... Matthew Solitro 
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Glbney 
Jonmichael L.T. Moy
Div. Editor......Paul Tabachneck
Calendar Ed.....Roula Abdel-Baki
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Home 
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adriane Seibert
Art Co-Eds.........Gabrien Symons
Francine Gemperle
Photo Editor.................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr.........Derek Wahila
Personnel Mgr........Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr....................Eric Strauss
Systems Mgr.........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed.......Max Chittister
Asst. Forum Ed. H. Lee Abernathy 
Asst. Sports Editor.. Paul Boothe
Asst. Prod. Mgr.............Kathy Liu
Photo Staff Mgr.........David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Samuel Greenfield, Abby Schiff, 
Andrew Sproule, Jason Togyer
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, John Biggs, Andrew 
McDermott
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Steven Burns, Darren Chiapetta, 
Carey Clevenger, Tricia Davis, 
Mahua Dutta, Gretel Gaal, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Michelle 
Hall, Tom Harper, Jason Heiniein, 
Wladimir Labeikovsky, Laura 
McClure, April C. Moate, Suzanne 
Paddock, Sudhir Reddy, Eric 
Salzman, Leigh Silverman, Ronak 
Singhal, Jon Slenk, James 
Stepanek, Danielle J. Topol 
S h a rm i I a Venkat-asubban, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
Heather Zindie
Art
Justin Carroll, Mark Eggert, Amy 
Haupl, Jen Zieserl
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskili, Nick 
Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowltz, Christopher Nelson, 
Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Tushar Dubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, Kerry 
Hagan, Janet Lee, Pat Prasangslt, 
Jason Slegendorf, Jackson Tam, 
Maria Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings, 
Jen Urso
Production 
Christine Brill, Vernon Harmon, 
Esther Jimnez, Lester Manzano, 
Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Victor Ortega, Katie 
Swango
Copy
Lori Bowes, Madhav Ghanta, D. 
Renee Hairston, Winter Mason, 
Diane Ohm, Ed Slavlshak, Richard 
Smolen, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppI, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
ido Ben-Shachar, Christy L. 
Callahan, Shira Feldman, Beth 
Gariano, Michael Gartland, Conal 
Ho, Patrick Hunt, Sameer Kareem, 
Adam Klivans, Tim Kniveton, David 
Koran, Richard S. Lubell, Emily 
Rosenthal, Jeffrey Siu, Aaron 
Weisberg
Tho Tartan is the student newspaper o( Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students 
during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academicyear. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section are the official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
Individual creators. Tho Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to tho Editor 
are opinions of authors who ore usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 
words. Tho Tartan reserves tho right to condenso or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1995 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Cameglo Mellon Univer
sity/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 
Funded In part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN B: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

De>ftv-e,r-in The, Prfed Pizza/
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig682-7272
Carryout Special
One 14" Large One Topping
99*5.
Voted the ^1 
Pizza in Pittsburgh 
by the Post Gazette.
Our competitors 
pizza was com
pared to card
board with sauce.
Try the rest, buy 
the best!
PAPA JOHNS VALUE MENU
I" Party Special
10 Small14 Large16 Extra Large
Cheese Pizza4.956.959.95
One Topping5.657.9510.95
Two Topping6.358.9511.95
Three Topping7.059.9512.95
Four Topping7.7510.9513.95
Five Topping8.4511.9514.95
Garden SpeciaFM7.2510.2513.25
Mushrooms, Onion, Green Pepper, & Black Olives
The Works8.4511.9514.95
Pepperoni, Ham, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Green Peppers, & Black Olives
TOPPINGS
Ham
Pepperoni 
Sausage 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Anchovies 
Extra Cheese 
Mushrooms 
Onions 
Black Olives 
Green Olives 
Green Peppers 
Jalapeno Peppers
EXTRAS
Breadsticks........................................ 1.79
Delicious oven-baked sticks with plenty 
of Papa John's Special Galic Sauce &
Nacho Cheese Sauce
Extras........................................................28
Extra Pepperoncini, Special Galic 
Sauce, Nacho Green Sauce
Cheesesticks.................................... 3.20
A Chicago-cut taste treat smothered in 
cheese & Special Garlic Sauce
Drinks.........................................................61
12 oz. can of Coca-Cola^1' classic,
Sprite^ or diet Coke^
Prices do not include sales tax
U
One 14" Large with The Works 
& One 14" Large Two Toppings
$13:95
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Party Special
$98
ALN +tax
One 
14" Large 
One Topping
OR
Two 
14" Large 
One Topping$11;98
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
aegasi Melcso Ue 
vyia 1w7oi plcso
One 10" Pizza One Topping & 
Two Cans of Coca-Cola classic$5,99
+tax
(Daily 11am-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores i
95O K5 LTK N5DS H5vvYTI 
dK E5vvTLT 3P 95DSI d FdNh
*
*
*
*
Open a tab at a diner.
Belgian waffles and cheese fries with gravy 
are delicious, regardless of the hour.
Visit a local court of law.
Plenty of seating, unique conversation and 
drama that improves the later it gets.
Be the gym night janitor.
Work out at your leisure and never wait 
in line for lat pulldowns or the erg.
Get a Citibank Classic card.
For your peace of mind, operators are 
on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
 1995 Citibank (South Dakota). NA
<*>Ei
OJij AMJZATJ THEH
St
Ir1rOKvV\ATJ D
ACTIVITIES FAIR 1995
Clubs and Organisations: Please provide us widi your summer 
address and plione number so we can correspond with you during 
the summer. The Activities Fair will be held Thursday, August 31 
from 4-7 pm. Thank you.
 I
Name.Summer Phone Number _
Organisation.
Summer Address.
Please return to Anne R. Witchner, Director of Student Activities, 
Student Center, Box 6007, by Friday, May 5th.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
klume 89, Issue 22The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 April 1995
rack team ready to race at championships
STEVEN BURNS
\artan Staffwriter
The mens and womens track teams 
ad a very successful week. The cancel
lation of the Tartan Invitational left 
[hem free to travel to Bethany College 
Wednesday. In a field of five teams,
; men won and the women finished 
econd.
On Saturday, the Tartans participated 
i the University of Pittsburgh Relays, 
fjie field featured a number of Division 
and Division II teams plus Lincoln 
College, the defending Division III nachampions. In spite of the stiff 
competition, the Tartans placed a numIfcer of people in their respective events. 
Head coach Dario Donatelli was happy 
frith his squads performance. He said, 
The competition was big, and its some 
ofthe best well face before the confer
ence meet.
The Tartan women set two school 
records and placed well in a number of 
events. One school record was set by 
'junior Missy Baustert, who placed third 
in the 800-meters with a time of 2:15.45. 
This time was also good enough to qualify 
her for nationals. The other school record 
was set by sophomore Vonquitra Bebee, 
who placed third in the 200-meters with
a time of 26.45 seconds. Sophomore 
Penny Summerville won the javelin com
petition with a throw of 122 feet.
The men had a good showing in the 
field events. Senior Jason Grusky took 
second in the shot put with a throw of 44 
feet. Sophomore Doug Harrell finished 
second in the triple jump with a leap of 
44 feet, 8 inches. Third place finishers 
included junior E.J. Tsangaris in the 
discus with a throw of 138 feet, and 
sophomore Jody Rogish in the javelin 
with a throw of 172 feet.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans domi
nated at Bethany. On the road to vic
tory, the men placed in all but two events.
The Tartans exhibited their dominance 
in the 1500-meters as they took second 
through fifth place. Sophomore Paul 
Hatala finished second with a time of 
4:14.62.
The 110-meter hurdlers also placed 
high. Freshman Jeff Jones finished sec
ond with a time of 16.14 while junior 
Zack Conly finished third in 16.18. The 
Tartans then went on to take second and 
fifth in the 800-meters and the 400- 
meter hurdles. In the 800-meters, fresh
man Maliek Washington took second 
with a time of 2:01.42, while the 400- 
hurdles had Jones taking secondin 57.32. 
Sophomore Buck Neel also contributed
with a second in the 100-meters in a 
time of 11.75.
The lone mens victory in the track 
events came with 
sophomore Ron Polcawich in the 5,000- 
meters as he crossed 
the line in 16:24.27.
A series of thirdplace finishes also 
helped the Tartans to 
victory. The 400- 
meter and 1,600- 
meter relay teams 
each placed third with 
respective times of 
45.23 and 3:29.31.
Sophomore Casey 
Smith took third in the 
400-meters with a 
time of 55.08, and 
freshman John 
Voymas finished third 
in the 200-meters with 
a time of 23.96.
The men also per
formed well in the field 
events. Senior Phil 
Beck won the pole vault with a height of
13 feet. He also finished second in the 
long jump as he leapt a distance of 18 
feet.
The Tartans took first and third in the 
javelin. Rogish threw a distance of 168 
feet, 1/2 inch to win the event. SophoSophomores Paul 
through the pack
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Hatala and Greg Stults work their way up 
in Saturday's meet at Pitt.
more Albert Fletcher came in third with 
a distance of 158 feet, 9 inches.
To complete their victory, the Tartans 
took second through fourth place in the
high jump. Freshman Peter Hunt cleared
6 feet 2 inches to place second. He was 
closely followed by freshmen George 
Matcuk and Chris Pesci.
The women also had a good showing. 
They finished second and managed to 
set a new school record in the 400-meter 
relay. They also took a total of 11 firstand second-place finishes and placed in 
every event.
Both Tartan relay teams won their 
events. The 1,600-meter team finished 
in 4:25.5, while the 400-meter relay team 
finished in a school record time of 51.49. 
The team was composed of Bebee and 
freshmen Kelly OBrien, Jessica 
Connolly, and Kerry Riley. Bebee also 
went on to win two more events. She won 
the 100-meters in a time of 13.2 and the 
200-meters in a time of 27.18.
Other Tartan victories came in the 
400-meters as sophomore Audrey 
McAfee finished in 1:02.19 and in the 
400-meter hurdles as Baustert finished 
in 1:07.17.
Connolly followed up with a second 
place finish in the longjump and a fourth 
place finish in the triple jump. She leaped
14 feet, 10 inches in the long jump and 
31 feet, 3 1/2 inches in the triple jump.
OBrien and Riley finished second and 
Please see TRACK, page 10
Mens tennis team looks to continue success at UAAs
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens tennis team con
tinued its success last 
week.They have won eight of 
their last nine tennis matches, 
and the team placed second in 
the Supersport Tournament at 
Penn State by defeating four 
opponents and losing only to 
Allegheny College in the final.. 
The overall team record stands 
at 16 wins and seven losses.
On April 7, the team played a 
home match against West
minster College. The team won 
handily by taking all nine of the 
matches for a complete sweep. 
The most intriguing match was 
the duel by graduate student 
John Muza, last years number 
one player.
I played number one player 
for this match because of per
sonal reasons. We knew we 
could win so the coach put me in 
as the number one player. 
Muza won the match in three 
sets (36, 6-3, 6-1).
Other winners for the men 
included freshman Jim Freese 
(7-6(1), 6-4), freshman Navrose 
Marshall (6-1,6-2), senior Mike 
Macedonia (6-2,6-0), freshman 
DanBilco (6-3,6-2), and sopho
more Iroro Orife (6-2,6-0). The 
doubles team of Muza and se
nior Bill Mathey won (62, 6 
3). The Freese-Marshall duo
won (6-4, 6-2), and the onships being held this coming 
Macedonia-Bilco team won (6- weekend at Emory University 
2, 6-2). for both the mens and womens
On April 8, the team played in tennis teams, 
the Superspbrt Tournament at Our weakness is probably our
Penn State-Behrend. Carnegie 
Mellon swept Waynesburg Col
lege (5-0). They also defeated 
Washington & Jefferson (4-1), 
Penn State-Behrend (4-1), and 
Frostburg State (9-0). Their 
only loss came to Allegheny Col
lege (4-1).
Marshall, enjoyed the Supersport Tour,,
nament forvSj 
mat because 
it helped 
limit the fa
tigue factor 
in the play
ers. The for
mat con
sisted of four 
singles and 
one doubles 
with no re
peats. There
conditioning. Were not in as 
good of physical shape as we 
should be, said Muza. We may 
have lost a few matches due to 
conditioning.
Marshall stated that the 
weather has also been a nega
tive factor for the team. It has 
been disastrous. We really need 
to play more than 
once a week be
fore the UAAs. 
Despite these 
factors, players 
feel they have the 
best mens tennis 
team since Car
negie Mellon 
joined the UAA in 
1988. Orife said, 
Were pretty 
deep. Our top 
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor three players are 
was also an eight game pro-set at the same level, and were win(No-Ad) for all matches with a 
tie break at eight-all.
Marshall said, [The tourna
ment structure] was such that 
everyone only played one match, 
including the doubles, so the 
players never became real 
tired.
Muza felt that the Supersport 
Tournament was a good warm
up for the UAA Tennis Champining the close matches this year 
which we normally wouldnt 
have won last year.
We could finish second at the 
tournament because of our tal
ent. There is so much improve
ment from last year, said Muza.
The team will have their last 
match of the regular season 
against the University of Pitts
burgh.
Bowling team competes at nationals in rookie season
By PAUL TABACHNECK
fnrtan Diversions Editor
Last weekend, while the rest of Carnegie Mellon 
was struck with Carnival Fever, the Tartans bowltog team traveled to Omaha, Nebraska, to compete 
n the Association of 
College Unions Inter
national (ACU-I)
Mens Team National 
Championship.
Although this was 
their first time at the 
Nationals, they did 
quite well, especially 
considering they are 
still in their first sea. Under the leadership of sophomore 
co-captains Gerald 
^Tg and Gene Tabone, 
foe Tartans averaged
above 192 points in their 13 games. Highlights of 
tournament included a 268 game for sopho
more Jin Lung Fung, Ngs 677 point series (includa 237 and a 235), and Tabones 241 game/641
series.
Mr. Yuk trains its sights 
on national tournament
Also putting in great efforts were sophomore Jon 
Nedel for a 228 game/641 series and graduate 
student David Schwartz, with a 244 game/621 
series. (Note: for bowling term savants, a series is 
comprised of three consecutive games.) In the end, 
the Tartans placed 12th out of 21 teams.
Once again, however, 
the real celebration 
went to Tabone, who 
achieved the Champi
onship title for Region 
four. Tabone will be 
competing against 23 of 
the best collegiate 
bowlers in the country 
at the Mens Individual 
Championships in 
Reno, Nevada on May 
4-6.
All around, it has been 
a good first season for 
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Staff the Tartans so far.
Tabone has become one of collegiate bowlings 
finest, and the team has advanced itself to champi
onship status in a matter of months.
Hopefully, this standard of excellence will be 
maintained by future bowlers.
By VERNON HARMON
Special to The Tartan
Anyone who has been on or 
near the intramural fields on a 
warm, clear spring or summer 
evening has seen them: men and 
women, sprinting up and down 
the field, throwing frisbees hither 
and yon, and trying to chase them 
down. Those in the know call this 
Ultimate, or Ultimate Frisbee, 
and CMUs Ultimate Club fields 
one of the best college teams in 
the nation, Mr. Yuk.
Here are the basics of Ultimate: 
Each team fields seven players. 
The defense throws, or pulls, 
the disc to the offense to begin 
play. The offenses objective is to 
complete a throw in their 
opponents endzone, which scores 
one point. The defenses objective 
is to stop the offense by either 
intercepting or blocking throws. 
No physical contact between op
ponents is allowed.
The thrower, or the 
person currently 
holding the frisbee, 
has 10 seconds to 
throw the disc and 
cannot move from the 
time he catches the 
disc, although he can 
pivot, much like a 
basketball player 
who has stopped drib
bling. The marker, 
the defensive player 
who is marking the 
thrower, counts to 10 
out loud; this is the 
stall count. There 
are no referees, so players are 
responsible for calling their own 
fouls and lines.
Mr. Yuk has been around at 
CMU since at least 1979. They 
made frequent trips to the Na
tionals Tournament in the midto late-80s but never won (al
though they managed a third 
place finish once), and they 
havent been able to get back since 
1989. As of Saturday, they were 
7-5 and were ranked as the 30th 
best college team in the nation by 
the Ultimate Players Association, 
orUPA, dropping from last weeks 
28th place ranking due to inac
tivity. Mr. Yuk was ranked fourth 
in the nation at one point last 
year. Although only 12 teams play 
in the Nationals, Mr. Yuks 
chances of qualifying look very 
good this year.
To attend the May 30 Nation
als Tournament, Mr. Yuk will 
have to finish either first or sec
ond in the May 2 Regionals Tour
nament, or qualify for an elusive 
Wildcard bid. Wildcards are 
awarded by the UPA based on
how many teams in the region 
have submitted official rosters 
prior to Regionals. Last year, Mr. 
Yuk finished third in the 
Regionals but did not receive a 
Wildcard bid; their region was 
one official roster shy of receiving 
a Wildcard.
In the process of placing third 
at the 1994 Regionals, Mr. Yuk 
managed to knock off the 1993 
defending National Champs, the 
University of North Carolina at 
Wilmington. The eventual 1994 
National Champion also came 
from CMUs region, so if Mr. Yuk 
can manage to qualify this year, 
they like their chances in the 
Nationals.
This spring, Mr. Yuk has al
ready competed in two tourna
ments: the Easterns in
Wilmington, North Carolina, and 
the Ivies Plus Invitational in 
Princeton, New Jersey. They ad
vanced to the finals of the B pool
Since the Yale Cup is also being 
held April 22, and Mr. Yuk has 
set its sights on Sectionals, they 
will be unable to defend their 
1994 Yale Cup title.
Mr. Yuk currently has about 20 
members, including both under
graduate and graduate students 
at CMU, although usually no 
more than 14 travel (enough for 
two lines of seven), and they do 
travel. Mr. Yuks members do 
twice their normal work during 
the week so they can travel for 
the entire weekend, says Wan. 
This weekend were lucky be
cause Penn State isnt very far 
away, and we should be back at a 
reasonable time on Sunday. When 
we went to Wilmington [North 
Carolina, for the Easterns Tour
nament], we didnt get back until 
about two in the morning.
Typically, Mr. Yuk is a CMU 
players first exposure to Ulti
mate, although the occasional
at the Easterns. However, they 
were forced to forfeit when one of 
their players was injured during 
the game, and they were no longer 
able to field the required seven 
players. They only had seven play
ers traveling, a situation known 
in the game as going savage. At 
the Ivies, Mr. Yuk went 22 dur
ing the first days play and ad
vanced to the quarterfinals of the 
A bracket, where they lost to the 
eventual winners, Yale.
This weekend, Mr. Yuk trav
eled to the Penn State Invitationals in anticipation of the 
April 22 Sectionals Tournament 
at Rutgers, where they expect 
their stiffest competition to come 
from the University of Pennsyl
vania and Penn State.
Our current goal is to win 
Sectionals in two weeks, said 
Mr. Yuks business manager and 
third-year player, junior Darren 
Wan. We lost a close game to 
Penn State earlier this year, but 
they were fielding a full team and 
we werent, so I think our chances 
are very good.
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
undergraduate has been exposed 
to the sport in high school, as 
Wan was, and some of the gra
duate students played as 
undergrads (either at CMU or 
elsewhere). If you want to see 
what Ultimate is all about, dont 
be intimidated. We try to en
courage people who have never 
played before to come out, says 
Wan. And we try to have regular 
times for pick-up games, so any
one who wants to play Ultimate 
can. Typically, there are times on 
weekends so that people on the 
team who cant travel can get a 
chance to play Ultimate. Accord
ing to Mr. Yuks home page (http: 
//www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/ 
org/ultimate/mryuk.html), cur
rent pick-up times are Wednes
days at 5 pm and Saturdays and 
Sundays at 2 pm at the Schenley 
Oval.
For more information about Mr. 
Yuk or Ultimate in general, you 
can check out Mr. Yuks home 
page (see above), or you can con
tact Wan at 862-2572 or 
dw3t@andrew.cmu.edu.

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995
Spurs eye championship; Piranhas almost there
0EftS 2/E 96i
by Darren Chiappetta
This week, we return to our focus on 
the NBA. With the college season over, 
what is there to return to anyway? Not 
that I dont like talking about the NBA, 
its just that I cant get interested in it 
until the playoffs begin.
Wait a minute, theres only two weeks 
left until the playoffs start? And we only 
have two issues left? Hey, lets talk pro 
hoops!
Dennis Rodman returned to the San 
Antonio Spurs on Friday after missing 
three weeks with a separated shoulder, 
an injury sustained in a motorcycle acci
dent last month. He had 15 rebounds 
and, honestly, who cares how many 
points, in a 98-88 win over Sacramento.
The Spurs went 12-2 while Rodman 
recuperated from the injury, due in large 
part to the efforts of players like the
ancient Terry Cummings (who originally 
played for the San Diego Clippers), and 
former All-Star Sean Elliott. They picked 
up their play in the absence of Rodman 
and his 15-plus rebounds per night.
Despite their success when the Worm 
was gone, Rodmans return couldnt have 
come at a better time for San Antonio. 
The Spurs have four games remaining 
in the season, which should give the 
man with the watercolor hair enough 
time to play himself back into game 
shape before the playoffs. It also gives 
players like Cummings a chance to rest 
a little before the post-season begins, 
which will make him a more effective 
player off the bench come crunch time.
Perhaps the most important effect that 
Rodmans reentry into the lineup will 
bring is a lessening of the burden, both 
defensively and rebounding-wise, on 
David Robinson. As one of the leading 
candidates for the Most Valuable Player 
award, the center from Navy is no longer 
anchored to the middle on both ends of 
the floor.
Since Rodman can get five to 10 offen
sive boards a night, Robinson, who can 
post up and hit the 18-foot jumper with 
equal proficiency, can do whatever he 
wants on offense without having to worry 
about being in position for a rebound.
On defense, Rodman, a former Defen
sive Player of the Year, can match up Spurs havent accomplished with The 
with the opponents center, freeing Admiral.
Robinson to roam the paint and do what Playoff fever has hit Pittsburgh! No, 
he does best, block shots. Especially in the Penguins havent started the postthe Western Conference, where many of season yet, and for all you Yinzers who 
the best teams (Seattle, Phoenix, Utah) thought I was talking about the Pens,
have no true center, putting Rodman on 
the other teams big man gives the Spurs 
a tremendous defensive advantage with 
very little liability.
With Robinson, Rod
man, much-improved 
guards Avery Johnson 
and Vinny Del Negro 
and solid role players 
like Cummings and 
Elliott, the Spurs feel 
they can win a cham
pionship. Of course, 
those familiar with the 
NBA know that the 
Spurs have felt they 
could win a champi
onship every year 
since Robinson came 
aboard in 1990.
This is the year 
has been their rally
ing cry in recent years, 
but perhaps it should 
be This is the year we 
make it past the sec
ond round, a feat the
have a friend thwap you with a twisted 
Terrible Towel.
The Piranhas of the Continental BasFranclne Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-EditorEastern Division teams ravaged by free agency
no6r6mE naoEEuE
by Anuj Gupta
Once the crown jewel of base
ball, the labor dispute has left the 
formerly proud National League 
East in disarray. After featuring 
the best two teams in baseball 
(Montreal Expos and Atlanta 
Braves), and the most recent 
National League Champions 
(Philadelphia Phillies), the N.L. 
East teams have been ravaged by 
a glut of free agent departures.
This week, we take a look at the 
five team N.L. East as well as 
their counterparts in the Ameri
can League.
Atlanta Braves: The pitching 
staff is still there, and in the end, 
that will once again propel them 
to the top. They have possibly the 
most dominating staff since the 
Orioles of the early 70s. Maddux, 
Glavine, Smoltz, Avery and 
Mercker are virtually unstop
pable.
The addition of Marquis 
Grissom to the outfield doesnt 
hurt either. But in order for the 
Braves to return to their third 
World Series in the past four sea
sons, youngsters such as Jose 
Oliva, Chipper Jones, and Javy 
Lopez will have to prove they can 
produce consistently for an en
tire season. Otherwise, October 
will once again bring disappoint
ment. Predicted finish: First 
place.
Florida Marlins: Steady im
provement is the catch phrase in 
Miami this year, and the addi
tion of veterans Terry Pendleton, 
Bobby Witt, John Burkett, and 
Andre Dawson will allow the 
Marlins to surprise many teams 
this year.
The offense and defense up the 
middle continue to be strong, and 
the dream outfield of Nigel Wil
son, Darrell Whitmore and Gary 
Sheffield is not too far away. This 
will also be the year for phenom 
catcher Charles Johnson to dem
onstrate his abilities. The pen 
will continue to develop behind 
closers Bryan Harvey and Robb 
Nenn, but the starting rotation 
behind Burkett and Witt is too 
thin to win on a consistent basis. 
Predicted finish: Fifth place.
Montreal Expos: The demise 
of this team can be considered 
one of the blackest marks in the 
history of baseball, and it is a 
gleaming example of why rev
enue sharing must be imple
mented. Due to financial prob
lems, the best team in baseball 
was forced to ship its two best 
position players (Marquis 
Grissom and Larry Walker), its
best starting pitcher (Ken Hill) 
and the premier closer in the 
National League (John Wettleland), elsewhere.
They are left with one of the 
brightest new managers in base
ball, Felipe Alou, and a team that 
is a shell of what it once was. 
Although they have the most 
impressive young prospects in 
baseball such as Cliff Floyd and 
Rondell White, it will be at least
Barberie will help up the middle. 
Of course, the streak will over
shadow all else, but that may 
give this team a chance to quietly 
climb to the top of the A.L. East. 
Predicted finish: Second place.
Boston Red Sox: Recent addi
tion Jose Canseco is talking about 
40-40 again, and that is scary 
in a lineup which already fea
tures slugger Mo Vaughn. The 
Sox also feature some of the
a year before they can contend brightest young outfield prospects
again. Predicted finish: Fourth 
place.
New York Mets: Its time for 
the jokes to stop, Letterman. The 
Mets are back. This is the best 
Mets team to take the 
field since the begin
ning of the 1992 sea
son, and it will only 
get better as the season 
progresses. The Mets 
possess the best collec
tion of young pitchers 
in the National League 
with names such as 
Bobby Jones, Jason 
Jacome, and Chris 
Roberts, with Bill 
Pulsipher and Pete 
Walker right behind 
them.
A series of brilliant moves 
also brought the likes of 
Jerry DiPoto, Bias Minor,
Pete Harnisch, Doug 
Henry, Carl Everett and 
Bill Spiers to Shea Sta
dium. Although week de
fensively, the addition of 
Brett Butler will help. Pre
dicted finish: Third place.
Philadelphia Phillies:
Still the reigning National 
League champions, GM Lee 
Thomas gets an A+ for 
strengthening the offense
in the game with Glenn Murray, 
Jose Malave and Trot Nixon, but 
they are still a year away.
Pitching is also a 
. z problem as the staff 
, is putting a lot of stock
into phenom Frankie 
Rodriguez and inconsistent 
Erik Hanson. Rodger 
Clemens will be 
Clemens, but the Sox 
will have to wait at least 
one more year. Pre
dicted finish: Third 
place.
Detroit Tigers: 
Well ... at least 
Sparkys back. Thats 
about all that can be said 
 for the 1995 version of the 
Tigers as it appears that it 
will be another long, hot 
summer in the Motor 
City. The names of 
Trammell, Whitaker, and 
Gibson are still there, but 
it is now seven years since 
they produced a winner.
Although there are a 
few prospects on the way, 
such as Bob Higginson, 
Sean Bergman, Ricky 
Greene, and Tony Clark, 
the impact from these 
guys wont be felt for at 
least another year. AlMattingly will not finish his ca
reer without playing in a post 
season. This team was just too 
good last year, and over the win
ter, they only got better with the 
additions of Jack McDowell, Wettleland, and Tony Fernandez.
This team is strong in every 
facet of the game, and even its 
weak points (defense, and relief 
pitching) are far better than av
erage. In order for this team to 
truly dominate though, they 
must receive production from 
Sterling Hitchcock and Andy 
Pettite, the number four and five 
starters. Of course, if the Randy 
Johnson rumors hold true, for
get about it. Predicted finish: 
First place.
Toronto Blue Jays: The 
reigning World Champions are 
getting old, and in the usual cycle 
of baseball life, that usually 
means a decline of ones winning 
tradition. However, the Blue Jays 
still have one resource that most
teams long for  money. It was 
that money that enabled them to 
trade for Cy Young award winner 
David Cone and still maintain the 
salaries of superstars Roberto 
Alomar, Paul Molitor, John 
Olerud, etc.
But even with the names, they 
still play in the most talented di
vision in baseball, and there are 
too many question marks for this 
team to be taken as a serious 
contender.
Will Duane Ward be able to 
return from being on the shelf for 
a year? Who will be the four and 
five starters, and will Alex 
Gonzalez be able to man short
stop on a regular basis? Is Shawn 
Green ready to take over the turf 
in right? These questions will be 
the reason why the Jays wont be 
hanging another division title this 
year. Predicted finish: Fourth 
place.
Anuj Gupta is a junior policy 
and management major.
ketball Association are one win away 
from reaching the CBA finals. You m3y 
not know who they are, or care, but after 
winning the American Conferences 
Northern Division title, they dispatched 
of Ralph Sampson (yes, that Ralph 
Sampson) and the Rockford Lightning 
in the second round of the playoffs. They 
now lead the Chicago Rockers two games 
to none in the best-of-five conference 
finals.
If the Piranhas win the CBA crown, it 
could go a long way toward inciting an 
interest in pro hoops in Pittsburgh. Despite the fact that they won their divi
sion, the Fish ranked dead-last in 
league in attendance, and Fridays 
double-overtime win over the Rockers 
drew only 3,100 fans.
The CBA is only a step away from the 
NBA, and players like John Starks of 
the New York Knicks got their beginnings there.
Its an entertaining brand of basket
ball to watch, and Id encourage every
one to get out to A. J. Palumbo Center at 
Duquesne University, and see them play 
if they make it to the finals. What could 
be better than championship basketball 
in the Burgh?
Darren Chiappetta is a junior English 
major.
Track team 
ready for 
UAA meet
TRACK, from page 9
fifth in the 110-meter hurdles. 
OBrien finished in second with 
a time of 17.53. Freshman Me
lissa Lott helped the Tartan 
cause as she finished second in 
the 1500 meters in a time of 
5:16.61.
In the field events, sophomore 
Leslie Brown took second in 
the discus with a throw of 111 
feet, 6 1/2 inches, while 
Summerville took secondin the 
javelin with a throw of 123 feet, 
6 inches. Sophomore Sarah 
Pacocha took third in the high 
jump with a height of 4 feet, 6 
inches.
The Tartans will be in action 
again this week. They are at 
home on Tuesday and then 
travel to the University of Chi
cago over the weekend for the 
the UAA Championships.
classified
A6B&ALL
IS
I F
ADOPTION
over the winter. The addiFranclnce Gemperie/ though the recent adtion of Gregg Jefferies and Tartan Art Co-Editor dition of outfielder
Looking To Adopt! Happily married, 
professional couple unable to have a 
baby. We are hoping to adopt a 
newborn. Legal and confidential. We 
can help with medical expenses. 
Richard and Susan. 800-579-8338.
(JOURSEINFO
Engineering/Architectural Students: 
Enhance your skills and employment 
opportunities by learning Autocad 
Version 12 at Pittsburgh Technical 
Institute. Short-term (7 weeks) evening 
classes start monthly. For information 
contact Carmen Sporio. 471 -1011.
Charlie Hayes make this lineup 
one of the most imposing in the 
National League.
The key will be for the four 
starting pitchers, Curt Schilling, 
Tommy Greene, Bobby Munoz, 
and David West, to remain 
healthy and pitch to the capabil
ity that they have all demon
strated over the past two years. 
The health of closer Norm 
Charlton will also be a key as the 
Phils battle teams from the Cen
tral and West for the new Wild 
Card berth. Predicted finish: Sec
ond place.
And now for the junior circuit:
Baltimore Orioles: Admira
tion now abounds for owner Pe
ter Angelos for not using replace
ments, and fan turnout will be 
even greater as moves have been 
made to take this team to the 
next level.
With the addition of starting 
pitcher Kevin Brown, the Orioles 
have possibly the best 1-2-3 
punch in the American League. 
All-star Doug Jones will fill in for 
the departed closer Lee Smith, 
and second baseman Bret
Chad Curtis helps in the youth 
movement, it wont be enough. J70R SALE 
Pitching is the key to winning, 
and as of now, the Tigers have 
none. Predicted finish: Fifth place.
New York Yankees: Don
$lameySlone%eslaurant
presents 
IN CONCERT FRI..APR. 21 
DIRECT FROM AUSTRALIA
ERIC BOGLE
Legendary folk Singer 
Creates Music Magic!
Accompanied by 
Brent Miller on bass 
and Andy McGloin 
on guitar
Best Acoustic 
concert
The Boston Globe
A social commentator, a comic rac
onteur and an earthy sentimentalist all 
rolled into one"  The. New York Times
Student discount with identification. 
30 Grant Ave., Etna 15223 
For tickets or information 
____(412) 781-1666
New AT&T 14.4kb PCMCIA Type2 
Data/Fax modem, $150; New Zircom 
PCMCIA Type 2 Ethernet adapter $150; 
120 MB Hard Drive for DEC pe 325SL 
Notebook Computer $50.00. After 5 
pm 486-0967.
Graduate or mature students. No. 
Oakland Craig St. New 1 bedroom & eff. 
AC & W.W. Sec Blvd. Heat & water inc. 
$450 & up. 682-1194 & 731-0450.
Beacon Hill's carefree convenient living. 
Perfect for students. On bus routes. 
Affordable prices. Call Peg at Choice 
Homes. 800-714-1954 or 731-7990.
Shady Oak Apartments. Jun., Jul., Aug., 
non-smokers only. Best location at Clyde 
and Ellsworth, next to Cathedral 
Mansions. Sunny, spacious and secure 
California studios for $425. Onebedrooms $495-525, two-bedrooms for 
$695-$740. Rent includes heat, hot 
water, security intercom, wall-to-wall 
carpet, equipped kitchen with dishwasher 
and garbage disposal. Ceiling fans, mini
blinds, laundry, storage, superintendent 
on premises, off-street parking available. 
Immaculately maintained and landscaped. 
Motherall Inc. 441-6000, superinten
dents (Frank or John) at 688-0596.
swimming (WSI or Lifeguard)? Play 
piano? Age 19+Transportation 
provided. 6/18 - 8/18. Call Phil, Camp 
Winnebago, 800-932-1646 or 703-471- 
1705 or write 1606 Washington Plaza, 
Reston, VA 22090.
JOBS
HOUSING
Summer and fall rental. Shadyside one 
bedroom and efficiency apartments. 
Close to campus. On campus shuttle 
bus route. Close to shopping. Very 
clean and spotless. Private bathrooms 
and kitchens. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Very secure apartment 
buildings. From $235. Call 683-0776.
North Oakland/Shadyside Free Heat! 
Move into your freshly painted 1 or 2 
bedroom unfurnished apartment. Your 
apartment will feature a spacious floor 
plan, intercom building, extra storage, & 
laundry facilities, One bedroom start at 
$435 and 2 bedroom at $535. All 
utilities included, call now! 361-6160.
Wanted: Personal Assistant. Attractive, 
intelligent coed wanted by attractive, 
generous SWPM for light housekeeping, 
errands, travel, etc. 734-8422.
Marcato Marketing Bright, ambitious 
people needed to expand our rapidly 
growing marketing business. 5-10 hours 
per week. Flexible scheduling. Excellent 
management experience. Call 594-4107 
for more information and to schedule an 
interview.
Summer Opportunity Perfect summer 
job-beautiful setting on large, clear Maine 
lake, caring and energetic peers, teaching 
your skill, and save you money. Can you 
teach any of the followingtennis, 
archery, theater, video, riflery, 
windsurfing, canoeing, sailing, 
waterskiing, ceramics, woodwork,
SERVICES
Free information! Travel Europe this yea 
using inexpensive youth hostels. Stretch 
your devalued dollars with a Hostelling 
International Membership, student ID, 
and Eurail of Britrail Pass. Handy Eurail 
passes available from 2 weeks to 2 
months. Group tours available, ask for 
free "Discover Tours" catalog. Call 
Pittsburgh AYH Today at 422-2282.
Typing: Term papers, resumes, etc. 
Quality service, reasonable rates. Call 
Nancy at 361-7429, eves.
TRAVEL
Caribbean/Mexico 5189 R/T. Europe 
$169 O/W. If you can beat these prices, 
start your own damn airline! Air-Tech Ud 
212/219-7000. info@aerotech.com.
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00/wk
21-50 words..........$8.00/wk
51-100 words......$11.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon Univerisity 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and organi# 
tions may pay by journal transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 April 1995
T TTTT1T AQHDQEaEl Hipno
Everyday can 
be Earth Day
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
uduneir oymuiis/ icJiidii Mil RendeaerEarth Day Project: SAVE THE EARTH
before pollution eats you...
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
We gather together on April 22 each year to 
celebrate Earth Day. Earth Day has become a day 
in which the entire country joins together to pro
mote the preservation of our environment and 
natural resources.
Earth Day plays a fundamental role in educating 
people by showing them what actions they can take 
in order to make the earth a healthier and cleaner 
place.
The day was founded 25 years ago and has had a 
major impact in the establishment of the Clean Air 
Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
Nationwide events have been sched
uled to take place by the Earth Day 
Network, a non-profit organization of 
local groups which promotes Earth 
Day. Despite these efforts to educate 
the country, many feel that more needs 
to be done.
Daniel Richards, a senior math/com
puter science and biology double ma
jor, said, There is plenty of research 
which indicates that we are heading 
for serious environmental disasters, 
yet few people have the courage to do 
anything to avert them. Our nation 
needs leaders who favor long-term 
stability over short-term economic growth, and our 
public needs to be better informed.
Richards, who is the chairman of Carnegie Mellon 
Vegetarians (CMV) is taking part in educating 
people at CMU.
He, along with CMV, will be distributing leaflets 
on the benefits of vegetarianism in celebration of 
Earth Day.
Richards hopes the literature will have a pro
found impact on the CMU community. He said, 
The leaflets will raise awareness about the conse
quences of meat-centered diets on our health, envi
ronment, and collective conscience.
Richards explains the problems caused by meatbased diets.
He said, The loss of topsoil, a non-renewable 
resource, and the rampant desertification result
ing from overgrazing by livestock, is the primary
concern of many ecologists. This problem is rapidly 
worsening as more countries adopt the U.S.s meatcentered diet. I think we ought to decrease our 
consumption of flesh to set a better example for the 
rest of the world.
Richards believes that the importance of Earth 
Day is not stressed at CMU. He said, People tend 
to forget that they are integral members of our 
society. Earth Day provides opportunities for ev
erybody to consider their impact on our world and 
offers suggestions on how to live constructively. 
Teresa Leonardo, a junior biology major who is 
an active member of EARTH, feels CMU students 
do not understand the severity of the worlds envi
ronmental dilemmas.
She said, There are many people on this campus 
and elsewhere who walk around every day ab
sorbed in their thoughts or work, oblivious to the 
rest of the world. Theyve lost their youthful, wideeyed wonder and appreciation of nature. Theyve 
also lost or perhaps never had a sense of responsi
bility for their actions, in terms of how their actions 
impact other people as well as non-human mem
bers of the ecosystem in which they live.
However, Earth Day cannot have an effective 
impact on the world unless its message is incorpo
rated into peoples everyday actions. Leonardo 
feels Earth Day shocks people into taking re
sponsibility.
She said, What I see as the key idea behind 
Earth Day is giving an environmentally aware 
shock to as many people as possible. Everyone is 
aware of Earth Day, and for many people this is the
one time of year when they think about environ
mental issues. Obviously a shock or jolt of concern 
and awareness is practically useless if it dissipates 
quickly.
Richards feels that CMU students have the capa
bility and the means to make a difference in terms 
of earth preservation.
He said, We are the future professionals of our 
society, and it is important that we are wellinformed since we will have the power to make 
significant changes. However, in order for change 
to occur, more must be done on campus.
Certainly more can be done on campus to in
form the members of our community about our 
environment and what they can do to improve it, 
said Richards.
Leonardo agrees, The first 
part of the plan is to wake 
people up to the reality of what 
is happening to our planet. 
The second critical part, in 
which Earth Day is tradition
ally less successful, is keeping 
these people from slipping 
back into their mindless stu
por of inaction.
Leonardo believes that 
Earth Day is unable to do this 
because it is impossible to force 
people to act differently. She 
said, Students will only be 
impacted to the extent to which they want to be 
impacted. Forcing people to change is difficult, and 
forcing them to care is virtually impossible.
EARTH will be hosting a SchenleyPark cleanup 
scheduled for this upcoming weekend. EARTH in 
conjuction with SDC will be selling Earth Day tshirts in front of Doherty Hall this week. All profits 
will be donated to a later chosen environmental 
organization.
Trees will be planted all around campus and 
throughout the Pittsburgh area. SDC and EARTH 
will also be collecting various recyclables. In re
turn, the person who brings recyclable items will 
receive a plant.
There will be a lecture concerning the environ
ment on April 17 in Adamson Wing. Contact Tom 
Trent for information.
There is plenty of research which indicates that 
we are heading for serious environmental disas
ters, yet few people have the courage to do 
anything to avert them.
 Daniel Richards, 
senior computer science and biology major
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
As Earth Day approaches, I am reminded of 
that ever popular phrase, Every day is Earth 
day, forcing me to wonder if my living habits 
are, in fact, earth-friendly.
How exactly does my existence affect the 
earth? Does recycling a few cans and eating 
tofu really make any difference in the grand 
scheme of things?
Daniel Richards, a member of CMU Veg
etarians, feels that the answer is a definite 
'yes. Much human suffering is a result of 
animal consumption, including heart disease, 
pollution, water scarcity, and starvation. The 
solution is simple: we need to decrease our 
consumption of animal products and eat meals 
rich in complex carbohydrates (rice, pasta, 
potatoes, fruits, and vegetables), said 
Richards.
But many students find it difficult to rear
range their eating habits while under the 
restraints of a meal plan.
Its difficult to maintain a full vegetarian 
diet on campus, claims Barbara Tejada, fresh
man Design major. But, in fact, Carnegie 
Mellon Dining Services provides meatless 
meals at Highlander on a daily basis, said 
Richards.
While a number of underdeveloped nations 
work to export grains intended for American 
livestock, many of their own citizens go hun
gry; 85 percent of all U.S. topsoil is lost due to 
the raising of livestock; most Americans eat 
four to six times as much protein than re
quired, for optimal health, and 90 percent of 
the protein in grain is wasted by recycling it 
through livestock.
Such facts, as reported by USDA -and 
Worldwatch, are what promoted Richards to 
change his eating habits.
It is difficult to fathom the consequences of 
our meat-based diet on our ecosystem, said 
Richards. Studies have conclusively shown 
that eating less will benefit our society in 
every way .... Moving towards a vegetarian 
diet is the single most effective action a person 
can take to improve his or her life and the state 
of our world.
Other activities, such as recycling, can also 
impact the status of the environment, starting 
on a local level. Carnegie Mellon has a very 
effective recycling program, one of the best of 
any institution in Pittsburgh, says Barb Kviz, 
Environmental Services Contract Manager.
Last year CMU won the Three Rivers Envi
ronmental Award, sponsored by Pennsylva
nia Environmental Council and Duquesne 
Light, for its Reduce, Reuse and Recycle 
Program. Many programs such as these are 
effective because they help students become 
environmentally conscious of their actions.
To be quite honest, I recycle because there 
is an easy outlet to do so, said Cherese McLeod, 
freshman voice performance major.
If I had to transport recyclable materials 
myself, I probably would not do it at all. Theo
retically, I support conservation, 100 percent. 
But on a practical level, I practice this ideal 
only because its so convenient, said McLeod.
But here, on the Carnegie Mellon campus, 
its hard not to comply with all the outlets 
offered around the school.
CMU recycles wood pallets, scrap metal (such 
as refrigerators and air conditioners), car bat
teries, motor and machine oil, beverage con
tainers (glass and aluminum, no foam), and 
numerous paper products, from office materi
als to newspapers and phone books.
u We are recycling paper more now than ever 
before. In the future we would like to have 
drop-offs for paper products so we can bring 
wastes from home as well, said Kviz.
Cardboard may be recycled as well but must 
be flattened and broken down before dropped 
off. Computer hardware can be recycled through 
the Cyert Hall Computer Recycling Service at 
retread@cmu.edu.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995
Q&A: Lets Talk About Sex, Brady
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
On Friday, April 21, at 5:30 
pm, Maureen McCormick, 
Marcia from the popular TV 
sitcom The Brady Bunch, will 
deliver a program entitled 
Birth Control Matters. It is a 
nationwide, educational semi
nar that will take place in 
Doherty Hall, room 2315.
The presentation was cre
ated in response to the alarm
ingly high number of sexually 
active adults who do 
not use birth control 
(one national survey 
reported that only 45 
percent of adults who 
have sex use birth 
control).
McCormick will 
discuss the impor
tance of contraceptive 
education, as well as the im
pact of several nationwide sur
veys on sex and contraception 
in the 90s.
The Tartan had the opportu
nity to conduct an exclusive in
terview with McCormick last 
Friday.
McCormick discussed her 
thoughts about sex and birth 
control, her role as Marcia on 
The Brady Bunch, and recent 
events in her life:
Q: How many colleges have 
you been to with this so far?
A: 20 colleges so far, about.
Q: How did you get involved 
with the project?
A: Well, about two years ago, 
they called me, and told me about 
the program, and I really thought 
it was worthwhile. I mean, there 
are 3.5 million unattended preg
nancies in the U.S. every year, 
over half of them happening to
women who use contraceptive 
devices.
A lot of peoples knowledge just 
doesnt go past the condom and 
pill, and theres so many newer 
developments. Theres the female 
condom, a shot you can take that 
lasts three-months.... We also talk 
about abstinence, and the need 
that no matter what form they 
use, that they also use a condom 
to protect themselves from sexu
ally transmitted diseases.
Q: What are your feelings 
that your status as a sex 
symbol adds validity to the 
lecture?
A: Well, I think people do 
sometimes come to meet me, 
say hi, and thats great, the 
show does pull a lot of people to 
the lecture that might not oth
erwise go.
But I think that when people 
get there, and they listen for a 
while, they really start to en
joy themselves, and learn from 
it.
Q: What have you been do
ing on the entertainment 
front?
A: Well, Im married with a 
five-year-old daughter.
I just finished playing Rizzo 
in Grease on Broadway fshe 
had replaced Rosie ODonnell 
in the role), and I just released 
my first album on April 4, called 
When you get a little lonely.
One of the songs is by Mike 
Reed, theres a Pam Tillis song, 
and one by Nicholette Larson.
Theyre all new tunes, kind 
of hot Country with a cross
over.
Linda Rondstadt and James 
Taylor sing backup; its a seri
ous project.
Australia has its own Mardi Gras
lo2 W/ErE?
by Eric Salzman
In the States, there are a few 
events where everyone in a given 
area joins together outdoors for 
some sort of massive celebration. 
Theres New Years Eve at Times 
Square, the Mummers Day Pa
rade, an L.A. block party, and of 
course, Carnegie Mellons Spring 
Carnival. Then of course, there is 
the ultimate party: Mardi Gras.
Sydney, too, has Mardi Gras; 
however, here it is a bit different. 
The annual parade here is known 
as the Sydney Gay and Lesbian 
Mardi Gras, and Ive never seen 
anything like it in the States.
If I may be so bold as to venture 
into Old Man Donners sacred 
ground, please allow me to pro
vide an ingredient list.
The 1995 Sydney Gay and Les
bian Mardi Gras: approximately 
four miles of closed-off road in 
downtown Sydney, 1,000 or so 
homosexuals, another 1,000 or so 
lesbians, a few 100 transvestites 
(allverytall), floats, music, lights, 
about a hundred people in yellow
hats trying to sell buttons, and 
thousands, upon thousands of 
screaming  fans  well, you 
could probably call them fans. 
Maybe spectators would be a bet
ter word.
The parade began at just a bit 
past eight in the evening; how
ever, my friends and I headed 
into the city (thats donton for 
you Yinzers) at about 2:30 to catch 
some preliminary sights as well 
as to secure a good spot along 
Oxford Street where the parade 
went through.
For the hours I had before the 
festivities officially began, I pe
rused the area only to encounter 
some of the most fascinating 
walks of life. Many a large man 
walked around in his tight (much, 
much too tight) leather shorts, 
open leather vest, and dog attire. 
The scenery was reminiscent of 
the Blue Oyster Bar from Police 
Academy.
A local pub in the area was 
playing host to a series of drag 
queens prancing around on top of 
the bars lip-syncing to Whitney 
Houston tunes. Needless to say, 
crowds were lining up outside 
the door to get in. Transvestites 
pull in a really good crowd here. 
Local shops were sporting all sorts 
of gay and lesbian t-shirts, hats, 
posters, and other parapherna
lia. Even the restaurants were 
getting into the spirit of things.
One was advertising dicks on a 
plate on a giant board outside 
including graphic image and all 
I dont think I could find an empty 
table in that joint.
After waiting in the miserable ] 
rain for about two hours, (I had to I 
save my spot), I finally got to I 
witness the beginning of the pa
rade. With the scent of pot i 
throughout the air, the stench of 
alcohol on the ground, and the 
reek of body odor everywhere 
the floats began to roll.
Cheers broke out each time displays like Melrose Place, the Vfl.  
lage People, random transves. 
tites, or just a bunch of naked 
people rolled by. However, the; 
one group that seemed to get the 
most cheers was group of50orso! 
men marching down the street in 
nothing but their tighty whities1
and flapping their towels in sync, i
Im not sure that it is possible 
to really get across just what this 
event was like. Ill just recom
mend that if it is on television 
over there, interrupt your O.J. 
drama for a few minutes and take 
a look. Note  this program is 
not for the faint hearted, bigoted, 
homophobic, close minded, or oth
erwise annoyingly stupid.
Eric Salzman, a sophomore Phi
losophy major, is still exploring 
the mist of the Australian out
bound.
Old Man Donner rescues recipes from hands of insidious Kathy Lee
lfm Man DtnnEr
by Jason Roth
After a week of global travel via cargo 
planes, wron way freight trains, and 
beaten-up old burros, I finally had the 
goal in sight.
As I approached the Tartan office, 
leather satchel firmly in hand, I glanced 
inside to check on the sheaf of papers 
that contained my hard-won treasure.
The greatest and simplest recipes of 
all the world were written on those 
ragged scraps of paper, torn from news
papers and journals on five continents 
and brought to Pittsburgh to benefit 
you, my loyal readers.
As some of you may already suspect, a 
horror awaited my eyes: where had been 
the most exotic of culinary delights was 
only a copy of Cooking with Kathy Lee!, 
complete with the inscription, See you 
in Cooking Hell, Old Man Donner! Yours 
in Undying Hatred, KL.
I knew instantly what had happened
 it was my one moment of weakness, 
when the tall, well-built Swede had of
fered a tempting torte in exchange for an 
admiring feel of my satchel.
Distracted by his looks, and entranced 
by the tasty sweet, I had let down my 
guard, and the dastardly deed was done. 
What does this mean to you, the casual 
cook, the baked baker, the guileless gour
met in a dorm kitchen?
Well, all is not lost.
One recipe I had tattooed on my fore
head (backwards, of course), but, most 
importantly, the hero of this column 
came to the rescue.
Arts mom sent him a book for his 
birthday, Fridas Fiestas.
For those of you in the know, this does 
indeed refer to Frida Kahlo, ultra-cool 
Mexicana artist.
Its a month-by-monthj oumey through 
Mexico, with her own favorite recipes as 
signposts.
Unfortunately, the month of April fea
tures a pork roast and yet another black 
bean soup.
Unwilling to subject my readers to 
more of the same (not that my paltry 
recipes compare), I chose to play god, 
and move us to another month.
Sigh.
But first, I bringyou, with great pain...
Pepper London Broil with Mari
nated Onions
London broil (1-11/2 lbs.)
1/4 pepper
one red onion, sliced
juice of one lime
Tabasco
This is very simple, and very good. 
Dont be intimidated by the London broil
 its a beautiful cut of meat, and can 
sometimes be found quite cheap ($4.50, 
if youre very lucky).
Anyway, marinate firstsqueeze the 
lime, add a few squirts o that Louisiana 
juice, and add the sliced onions.
Refrigerate for two hours. After about 
11/2 hours, coat the broil with the pep
per. Please grind it freshly  it makes 
such a difference, and will make the 
whole kitchen smell great.
Anyway, once this is done, cook the 
meat in a frying pan on high heat, for 
about 8-9 minutes a side. Again,please 
dont overcook it  London broil should 
be pink in the middle, or else its not 
worth doing.
After cooking, slice the meat the short 
way and cover with the onions. Thats it. 
It may seem odd to put cold onions on hot 
meat, but trust me, the combinations 
are wonderful. This also makes for fan
tastic sandwiches the next day.
Chiles Stuffed with Cheese
16 poblano chiles
4 cups mild feta
flour
5 eggs, separated
com oil
OK, this one will require a little effort, 
but is well worth it (as I think you can 
imagine). You have to roast the chiles 
first (put them in the oven w/ some 
water until tender), peel and seed them; 
I suspect you can buy them canned this 
way, but I have yet to try (the place in 
the Strip District would have it). Also, 
the feta is only a substitute for queso 
fresca, a rather vague description that 
wouldnt get you very far at Giant Eagle.
Anyway, stuff the chiles with the 
cheese and coat with flour. Beat the hell 
out of the egg whites, until stiff (pa
tience, patience); now beat the yolks 
until combined, fold into the whites, and 
dip the chiles. Heat your oil in a frying 
pan, and fry the chiles until golden. Lay 
on paper towels to drain. To serve this, 
youll want:
Tomato Broth
3 Tb olive oil
1 onion, thinly sliced
2 carrots, thinly sliced
10 medium tomatoes, chopped
1/2 cup vinegar
3 Tb sugar
2 tsp. oregano
Dont worry  its not a soup! The 
tomatoes are actually supposed to get 
the same treatment as the chiles, but Id 
just buy whole canned tomatoes (or 
crushed w/o seeds, but thats not as 
good); remove the seeds regardless.
Anyway, saut the onions and carrots 
until the onion is, as always, translu
cent. Add everything but the oregano 
and simmer for 10 minutes.
Add the oregano (whenever I give an 
amount for a spice, its a dead giveaway 
that Im copying), and simmer for an
other 10 (or until you feel confident that 
the broths at its peak of flavorI trust 
your judgment).
Put the chiles in this broth, and put it 
on the table before a bunch of drooling, 
soon-to-be-happy fools. You might want 
to include soft tortillas for dipping, etc.
Well, I hope youre satisfied with how 
things worked out. Im not beaten now, 
and next week Ill come back stronger. I 
have sources in our nations Capital that 
can help me....
Thanks go to Noot, who was unable to 
stop this rampage, but at least contrib
uted the crucial third alliteration.
jim. to rs9 jE9DrWE A9R9.HEs jYE9rSTR yDDp.e C9ErpH9
A short course in modern dinosaurs, 
including Mister Rogers perspective
by Dr. Ellsworth Brown 
President of the Carnegie
Tuesday, April 18, 1995, 4:30 pm 
Whitfield Hall, 143 N. Craig Street
This lecture is sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon University and University of Pittsburgh Chapters of Sigma Xi.
jmwm-SUNDAY HAPPY HOURTRY OUR ALL YOU CAN EAT
SUNDAY BRUNCH3 pm - 5 pm11 am-3 pmROIEST AIEIICtl FillGreat Drink Special Prices$7.95 Adult
413 South Craig Street$4.95 Child
681-8620
TRY US FOR LUNCH...TRY US FOR DINNER...TRY OUR BEERS...
- Daily Lunch & Dinner SpecialsHardwood Grilled Steaks andBeer Promotions Friday Nights with
- Giant SaladsChickenGiveaways
- The Best Burgers in OaklandHome-Smoked Hickory RibsRotating selection of 10 Microbrews
- New Bar Munchie MenuDelicious Vegetarian Dishes andon tap and 20 in bottles
Low-fat PastasDraft and bottle Microbrews of the
Day
- Ladies Night - Friday Nights
40 SESSIONS
70 HOURS LIVE
LIVE, DYNAMIC CLASSES
FOCUSED HOME STUDY 
MATERIALS
THE MOST COMPLETE SET OF TEST 
PREPARATION MATERIALS 
AVAILABLE
ESSEX HOUSE 
5713 CENTREAVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 1520
KAPLANKoa yck!ae iU ioU WUki 'lUyiWUch
AN EDUCATIONAL SUBSIDIARY OF THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY
Triple J WordProcessing Co.
"When you need work done in a 
professional way, turn it over to Triple J"
 Proposals
 Newsletters
 Charts
 Term Papers
1 Transcription 
1 Manuscripts 
1 Graphics 
Reports
 Flyers
 Resumes
 Theses
 Tables
 Personalized Greeting Cards
1019 Mellon Street  Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
Call (412) 734-1469 for information

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995L3
CMU net censorship of sexually explicit bboards unethical
FtrosEm tn 2/E In2ErnE2
by Kenton Shaver
Recently, I talked to an alt. sex personality who 
identified herself as a 19 year-old sophomore studytt a prestigious and expensive university much 
like our own. She told me, by way of further 
background, that she is of mixed race and basi
cally heterosexual. To familiarize her with our 
situation, I gave her the WWW URL of the CMU 
Censorship page.
KS: Whats your first take on all this?
Tanith: Well, I want to know what started the fit 
ofpuritanical behavior. I mean, almost everyone at 
CMU is over eighteen. What is the purpose in 
preventing those under eighteen from posting if 
about 20 people are under eighteen? Also, repressdiscussion about sex is horrible.
I think that we should be very open about sex. 
Repression creates misunderstandings, perpetu
ates ignorance, etc. Someone just posted in alt.sex 
because a friend thought that urinating after sex 
would keep her from getting pregnant. The poster 
agreed! Students need accurate sexual informa
tion, not ignorance bom of taboo.
KS: Would you say that the constriction of 
an information source as valuable as the 
USENET does a disservice to our campus 
community? Our president, Dr. Mehrabian, 
has recently polled undergraduates as to ways 
to improve student satisfaction at our uni
versity. The reason is pretty obvious to me: 
our male-female ratio is 3:1, which creates a 
lot of tension, especially among young people 
in this strongly sexual culture. The issue, too, 
for the administration is legal liability. The 
more successful CMU becomes, the more it 
acts like a big business.
Tanith: As someone pointed out, limiting full net 
access to those over eighteen is not a problem. You 
could also create a sub class of email accounts that 
dont get the sex groups. Those high school stu
dents have net accounts?
Anyway, high school students are having sex; I 
think they can read the groups. If high school 
students can get accounts easily, then CMU could
restrict them to certain accounts. Students need to 
discuss sex. Its a normal, healthy part of their 
lives. The net is a safe way for some people to do 
this. There is not enough honest discussion of sex 
and sexuality.
Turn USENET off? You cant do that. People will 
just pay for AOL or whatever. Shutting USENET 
off is even more of a free speech issue.
The issue for the administration is legal liability. 
CMU is getting more and more like a big business, 
the more successful the school becomes. The issue 
is supposedly protection of minors, as with Senator 
Exons censorship bill, s.134, but most people on 
campus are above the age of eighteen.
Eighteen is the age at which you can buy Play
boy, so why cant you read sex news groups which 
are mostly text? Also, there is really not that much 
sex on the net. What, 20 alt.sex.* groups as com
pared to thousands and thousands of other groups. 
Also, it is an effort to find sex on the net. People are 
constantly posting in alt. sex looking for pom stores 
and pictures. Its not as easy as logging on and 
having pom in your inbox.
Anyway, alt.sex is not all chatter. There are 
people who are being immature idiots, but there 
are also people having serious discussions: talking 
about rape, racism, sexism, homophobia, etc.
USENET currently transpiring at CMU will add to 
student satisfaction with the campus community or
 by the hard and fast economic law of supply and 
demand will exacerbate more serious problems 
such as substance abuse. Surely it might seem to me 
reader that legal considerations are serving as 
pretence for certain parties in the administration to 
pass Victorian judgement on me and my genera
tion..
Also, for those unacquainted, let me trace over 
newsgroup creation practice on the USENET. Most 
groups are .alt groups before they are taken, if 
merited, into the .comp, .sci, ..soc, or other trees. I 
watched alt.fractals transform into sci.fractals a 
few years ago by this process. Some of them, how
ever, never move out of the .alt tree but seemingly 
exist to bleed irrelevant chatter from the sanctioned 
groups.
KS: Do you consider any topic taboo, Tanith?
Tanith: This sounds like a sleazy come on. How 
do you mean taboo? Do I think some things are 
gross? Yes. Watersports is gross to me. I wouldnt 
flame someone who posted about it, though.
[To be continued next week].
Authors note: While editing this interview, I Kenton Shaver is a junior English major, vamuse wether the constriction (censoring) of the uoom.
Contract with America impacts many aspects of college students lives
By ALLIE KING
Tartan Staffwriter
Living the life of a college stu
dent often prevents us from know
ing what is going on in the out
side world.
Changes and developments in 
politics and culture seem to go 
unrecognized for much longer 
than they should because our lives 
here are concentrated on our stud
ies and other activities.
Although the here and now is 
important, what is going on out
side of this University is also cru
cial because many of the changes 
that are taking place while we 
are students will affect our fu
tures in many ways.
The 1994 elections resulted in 
a Republican take-over of Con
gress for the first time in 40 years. 
One of the Republicans game 
plans, the Contract with 
America, has become a central 
focus of national concern.
The Contract is a 10-point plan 
that is presented as an attempt 
to completely reform and amelio
rate the political, economic, and 
social systems of the United 
States.
Contract with America, is a 
piece of governmental literature 
that explains the plan in full de
tail, advocating the peoples sup
port of the Republican effort.
The book, written by Newt 
Gingrich, Dick Armey, and the 
House Republicans, refers to the 
plan as a bold new political strat
egy for the entire country, which 
will focus on the following ten 
points: balancing the budget, 
stopping crime, reforming wel
fare, reinforcing families, enhanc
ing fairness for seniors, strength
ening national defense, cutting 
governmental regulations, pro
moting legal reform, considering 
term limits, and reducing taxes. 
The setup of this 
plan was the key to 
the Republican vic
tory.
From the an
other perspective, 
however, this plan 
is not what it 
seems.
A great amount 
of upheaval has occurred in reaction 
to the Contract on the part of 
environmentalists, students, and 
many other citizens and organi
zations.
Efforts to counter the plan have 
sprung up all over the nation in 
the form of letters to Congress, 
rallies and distribution of litera
ture against the Republican Con
tract.
During the week of March 23, a 
national day of campus action 
against the proposed Contract 
with America brought students 
across the country together to 
fight what they foresee to be dev
astating consequences.
Literature was given out over 
the Internet by the UPC/Center 
for Campus Organizing, which
notified college and university 
campuses of the day of action.
The literature stated that the 
organizers of the counter-move
ment state that the Contract 
functions to, ... deny many young 
people the opportunity to attend 
college, punish the poorest people 
for their economic status, undo 
decades of efforts to reduce racmentfiinding for college students.
The Job Creation and Wage 
Enhancement Act part of the 
plan promises to remake [the] 
economy into the greatest job 
growth machine in the world, by 
way of provisions to roll back on 
taxes on investments that create 
jobs and modernize factories.
Yet the fine print of this act
The goals of the Contract [with America] involve many 
complex steps and alternations within the system, and 
many people fear that within these steps is the fine 
print that will cause major consequences in many 
areas of national concern.
ism and other forms of discrimi
nation, and allow for big busi
nesses to evade social and envi
ronmental responsibilities.
The Contract calls for a balanced-budget amendment to the 
Constitution, which would re
quire a three-fifths majority of 
Congress to raise taxes.
According to the Republicans, 
about 80 percent of the American 
people are in favor of the amend
ment. According to the anti-Contract perspective, however, sev
eral cuts would have to be made, 
and these cuts would affect about 
six million students, and could 
shove as many as two million 
students out of higher education, 
because of the lack of governsuggests severe consequences on 
environmental protections.
Anti-Contract activists see the 
Republican plan as being corpo
rate-initiated, and fear the new 
focus on large-corporations in the 
Job Creation Act will be severely 
detrimental to the environment.
In the environmentalist argu
ment sent out over the Internet 
by environnews@environlink.org 
and states that the Contracts 
proposals and intentions are sim
ply a continuation of the corporate powers destruction of the 
environment that has been oc
curring for years. We have al
ready poured our lives, time, and 
energy into legal maneuvers like 
the Clean Air Act; yet problems 
still persist. Monster corporations 
still spew billions of tons of toxic 
substances into the atmosphere 
and waterways each year... they 
are still breaking 
strikes and hiring 
replacement work
ers ... they are still 
brainwashing chil
dren and adults 
into thinking that 
the consumer 
world is real. - 
In this light, the
----------------- supporting and
augmenting of cor
porate powers does not bode well 
in the eyes of the environmental
ist.
They have formed a strategy 
known as anti-corporate solidar
ity, which is aimed at conceptu
ally attacking and dismantling 
such sources of corporate power 
and support which are, in their 
opinion, hindering environmen
tal progress.
As presented by the Republi
can Party, the Taking Back Our 
Streets Act of the Contract would
make punishments for crime se
vere enough to deter criminals 
from committing crimes and 
make sure that the criminal jus
tice system is fair.
The anti-Contract activists 
point out, however, that in the 
fine print it states that this act 
would repeal the Violence Against 
Women Act.
In addition, the Republicans 
attempted to take funding for the 
defense of abortion clinics out of 
the proposed Crime Bill.
Seeing a threat to womens 
rights, the National Organiza
tion for Women and other 
womens groups are moving to 
stop the legislation. They recently 
held a march on Washington on 
April 9, to protest.
The contrast between the Re
publican literature and discus
sion of the Contract and the anti
contract views shows there to be 
a lot of discrepancy in what is 
being promised and what the 
nation thinks will actually hap
pen.
The goals of the contract in
volve many complex steps and 
alternations within the system, 
and many people fear that within 
these steps is the fine print that 
will cause major consequences in 
many areas of national concern.
Students leaving for the summer or 
are graduating may permanently lose 
their email address! MyMaii, Inc. can 
provide you with a permanent email address. 
You can find our web at http:// 
www.mymail.com or send us an email at 
postmaster mym-a i I .co m m.
By creating a permanent email address with MyMaii it 
doesn't matter where you currently have you email service 
because your email will continue to be sent to the same address 
- your permanent MyMaii address. Therefore, you will be able to 
shop around for the best connection price and service available. 
And most importantly, friends, relatives and peers that you cur
rently communicate with will always be able to reach you 
through your permanent email address. You won't have to no
tify them of an address change ever again!
For further information about out service, check out our 
web site at http://www.mymail.com or we can send you 
information available on the web if you request the 
information by sending an email to postmaster@ 
mymail.com.
MyMaii, Inc.
http://www.mymail.com 
postmaster@mymail.com
Its Never Too Late ...to Begin a Career in Healthcare
The Penn State Postgraduate Certificate Program in Pre-Medicine
About to graduate and want a career in healthcare, but dont have a 
science background? Then take a look at Penn States Postgraduate 
Certificate Program in Pre-Medicine.
This 15-month program will help prepare you for admission to dental, 
optometry, podiatry, veterinary, physical therapy, allied health, or 
medical schools. If you are academically talented and highly motivated, 
then you need to act now.
What you get:
 flexible schedulesenroll as a fullor part-time student,
(take day or evening courses)
 personalized advising by College of Science faculty and 
academic advisors
 study skills and time management workshops
 tutoring programs in biology, chemistry 
and physics
 preparatory courses for admission tests.
Call today for 
more information: 
I-1OO-PSU-TODAY 
(1-800-778-8632)
Vissthehi

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995
Intense focus of different colleges increases student social separation
By SHIRA FELDMAN
Tartan Junior Staff writer
A common perception of student life at 
Carnegie Mellon is that the University 
is divided into social groups, one for 
each department. The convention stipu
lates that students tend to associate 
exclusively with others in that major: 
CIT, CFA, H&SS and the others repre
sent miniature worlds of their own. The 
result: students of each department are 
lumped into groups (dull engineers, 
dreamy artists, H&SS slackers) and are 
labeled antisocial.
Of course, this scenario is not a realis
tic portrayal of student life  like all 
clichs, it tends to be greatly exagger
ated. Matt Keegan, a freshman Art ma
jor, claims that social separation is not a 
problem: If you have one friend in an
other department, they will introduce 
you to others, he said. But is there some 
reality behind the stereotype? And if so, 
what can we do about it?
The first question is whether CMU 
students are really as isolated from other 
departments as they are perceived to be. 
Other departments? What other de
partments? said Koshi Delaney, fresh
man ECE major. Just kidding. I know a 
lot of people, but I hardly know anyone 
from CFA. Likewise, Sameer Sethi, 
freshman IM major said, Most of the 
schools are pretty well integrated; only 
one or two schools are on the extremes of 
the spectrum  CS and CFA.
Those two particular schools, it seems, 
have quite a reputation for cliquishness. 
Most [CS majorsl are inactive in school 
activities ... they spend most of their 
time in the cluster. There are not many 
chances for us to get to know other 
people from other majors, said Chris
tine Hui, a first-year CS major.
I think Im one of about ten CIT people 
who have ever set foot in the Fine Arts 
Building, said John Mayberry, a senior 
who visited the building during a tour in 
his freshman year.
Dan Zabell, a junior majoring in Liter
ary and Cultural Studies, verified the 
notoriety of these two departments. I
think that CFA and CS are more strongly 
linked by common interests than people 
in the English department.... CFA-ers 
are perceived as being art-fags, and CS 
majors are viewed as computer geeks. 
Misperceptions and stereotypes like 
these can be dangerous, he said.
Computer scientists and artists, how
ever, do not alone suffer from social 
stereotyping: I get the impression that 
people outside of H&SS dont think very 
highly of it, said Mike Sperger, a fresh
man technical writing major. Its just 
harder to quantify a liberal arts educa
tion than it is to quantify a technical 
education. So people perceive H&SS stu
dents as slacking off or not doing the 
same amount of work, and from that 
they assume that were not doing any
thing useful.
However, it is not the withdrawn na
ture of students, nor their antisocial 
temperament, which produces this divi
sion and misunderstanding among the 
student body. Many students sincerely 
have no time, and therefore, no opportu
nity to meet other types of people.
I think people may tend to stick more 
with people from their own department, 
said Denise Delgado, freshman BHA 
candidate. But I think this has a lot to 
do with the intensity of the work they do 
in their major or department ... CFA 
students in particular tend to hang out 
together more because each program is 
highly specialized with a relatively heavy 
workload. Your classes consist of pretty 
much only other art people, and when 
the outside work is studio-oriented, you 
spend a lot of out-of-class time working 
in the studio with other students from 
your department. Maybe certain groups 
of students being isolated from the rest 
of the student population has to do with 
lack of opportunity to meet other people.
Hui agreed that CS majors, just lack 
a chance to socialize.... I think the people 
at CMU are already very nice, they just 
dont have chances to get to know more 
people.
Often, the University seems to delib
erately cultivate such seclusion. Though 
every freshman is obliged to take a his
tory course, other majors require few 
interdepartmental classes. Even the at
titude of the personnel seems to encour
age isolation. Jill Khoury, a sophomore 
English major, said: I believe that many 
of the departments really try to make a 
barrier between each major. They say 
they do it to foster group bonding* and 
stuff like that... I notice that there is a 
certain amount of favoritism amongst 
department staff and their own stu
dents. For instance, when I went to sign 
up for the beginning level Argument 
course, the English secretaries were 
rather snippy to me, but when I went to 
talk to them about coursework after I 
was a declared major and they knew me, 
they were much more helpful... In a way 
this is bad because it gives a bad ex
ample of the department to people who 
are in other departments, but on the 
other hand its kind of a good feeling 
because it makes me feel that I have a 
home, sort of, and that Im respected  
a now youre one of us type feeling.
Does the University really encourage 
this type of departmentalism? Kevin 
Hughes, assistant to the Head of Resi
dence Life, blames it all on the students 
zealous dedication to academia. By the 
nature of being at a highly selective 
institution, students devote a great deal 
of energy to their work. Our students 
arent satisfied with being good, they 
want to be the best at what they do. 
Because of the academic expectations 
that come with being an elite institu
tion, students often dont have as much 
time to devote to connecting with those 
outside the college, he said.
Hughes suggests that those who want 
to create more diversity in their social 
life join the organizations available 
through the University: Things like the 
Carnegie Mellon Leadership Institute, 
the Soup and Substance series, Gender 
Issues, floor programs, etc., are designed 
in part to introduce people with similar 
interests. Our efforts really focus on 
bringing people together by providing 
opportunities to interact on interesting 
topics.
Some, however, dont concede that
extracurriculars are the answer. Robin 
Nayce, a sophomore BHA student, said, 
The workload is so crazy that there isnt 
the time or energy to devote to anything 
extraneous to your major ... Programs 
dealing with diversity at CMU are rather 
pointless, because the students will 
mingle only if a) they want to, and b) 
they have the time.
So what can be done about the 
Universitys sectionalism? Zabell be
lieves that the best solution is to put 
greater accent on cross-departmental 
requirements, so that interaction be
tween schools is encouraged ... It might 
include some kind of art history or sur
vey class. These classes would encour
age interaction through group work and 
other such activities.
More university-wide required courses
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-editor 
would certainly aid in collapsing social 
barriers. However, they would also com
promise the intensity of the educational 
process. As such, the University is un
derstandably reluctant to alter its aca
demic arrangements. But the inevitable 
result is that students are broken up 
into groups. And this, in turn, fosters 
stereotyping and misunderstanding.
Students at Carnegie Mellon must of
ten be specially motivated if they intend 
to possess a variety of friends. And this 
is unfortunate.
Though opportunities to meet other 
types of people do exist, students who 
must contend with a heavy workload 
and frequent lack of sleep may perceive 
the effort involved as unworthy. As CMU 
students, most of us learn to deal with 
social grievances.
Positions Available 
include:
Facilities Maintenance Assistant 
Facilities Team Leader 
Facilities Supervisor 
Conference Coordinator
Conference Assistant 
Linen Coordinator 
Linen Assistant 
Office Assistant
Salary range:
$4.50-6.50
Pick up an application 
at the 
Housing Office.
Make a
Lasting Contribution to
our University!
\lol!<\n
Join one the of the 1995-6 University Committees...
Academic Review Board
Students serve with faculty and staff on a 
5-7 person board which reviews matters of 
alleged violations of university standards 
of academic integrity.
Design Review Committee
Students serve with faculty and staff in 
considering all matters of major 
construction or renovation within the 
campus.
Health Services & Insurance Advisory 
Committee
Students advise the director of health 
services on matters pertaining to the 
health center and the university's student 
insurance plans.
Ryan Award Committee
Students assist in the process of reviewing 
candidates for the university's primary 
award for exceptional teaching.
Sexual Harassment Committee
Students serve with faculty and staff on 
the committee charged with educating the 
campus regarding sexual harassment and 
with responding to issues which arise in 
this regard.
Trustee Committees:
Educational Affairs & Enrollment
Budget
Development
Students advise the members of the 
university's Board of Trustees on various 
matters relating to the vision and future 
of the university.
Undergraduate Academic Advising 
Award Committee
Students assist in the process of reviewing 
candidates for the university's primary 
award for exceptional undergraduate 
academic advising.
University Committee on Discipline
Students serve with faculty and staff on a 
4-5 person board which reviews matter of 
alleged violation of university community 
standards.
University Committee on
Students serve with faculty and staff to 
advise the directors of the university 
parking service in order to enhance 
overall service to the campus.
University Student Affairs Council
Students serve with faculty and staff on 
the primary university council concerned 
with metacurricular affairs on the 
campus.
Applications are available in the Student Affairs Office, Warner Hall 301. Questions about the University 
Committees may be directed to Kevin Hughes, Assistant to the Dean of Student Affairs, at 268-2075 or via 
e-mail at kh42. The deadline for applications is April 28,1995 at 5:00 p.m. in the Office of Student Affairs.
su
M
M
E
R
J
O
B
S

---------------------------------------------------

(S Il II (g
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
tfhat "was Ihe significance of Ihe Erie Canal ?IN WE CoSM\C SEHse, PRobqbL'i KiL.
MEMBER YMEN I WNS 
flST BORN? I cxjumt 0EH TURM HXSELF CNER.' iNHES YtOJLDNT FOCUS.' I DUU>NT DO
TU\NK OF Ml THE WORK \T TOOK TO DBE10? TUE. MOTOR SK\U5> HECESS&R* TO WOLD A CRMON, TO PIACE TUE W OF tr ON A PA6E. TO
TU\S P\CWJRE \s TUE RESULT OF SIX '(EARS' VKREIEKTMG TO\L / A UFETME OF EFFORT VIENT \WO TU\S/
rv\ STllL NOTn YUU.PM\N<0 'fov)APPRECIATE !500 FOR \T.IT'S ANINVESTMENT.'
!?
VOUKCK
cS P0CT0R.6OT SAMPie ON&FRCM 
fromme? uttlbbarl.
A PNA TEST 5 TUB
Irtn mrromuiF
HPS YOUR SON. 
INWI5A6B0F 
PBRSONALRB5P0NSI&UTY, 
iKmvvarp WTTTDKmv!
APB YOUJNSANB?
WHY WOULPI 7HBRBMANTTOMOUJ? suusme 
IVONOTMKr figSjg 
70 KNOCU! * 
IP/PN'T SHALL I HARVW!
SZIS, NewsEHEARTH Or! i
'...ANDOUR. PNA ANALY5/5 PROVBS CONCLUSIVELY 
THAT THB CHILPBARL & 
MR. DU KB'5 SON. "
mvin iufe ivs
Mu
CLOSE TO HOMECLOSE to HOME aYsD mfPns9HRYD
ifBSJ TWE. U 1vA^ME'/Efc ixweo 30 o.J
THIS DRRMATIATIOtJ HASStN t\ PUBUC SEeuiCE
MESSAGE FB0MTH6 
COFFEE a3-DEPE<JD>JTS
We apologize if we startled you, (oiks. However, 
state law requires that we perform unannounced 
Heimlich maneuver drills once every month.

---------------------------------------------------

EHBB
HO0E3
BEH
iBncin
IQI0H
EEIBE! PK1E HEB EBBECiEB cranEI3B HBrann AEEBB ED RE3ES ECSm 
aims EB00EESEHBEOE
SQBHSBB
bdbq naca namm sitanBBBBBDB
Last Week's Answer:
DOW)1. Servant2. Affects
3. E, in Horse code4. Unit of current5. Require6. Geek
7. VoodooB. Snakoliko fish 
11. Inner product 13. Artifact 16. Greyhound, o.g.
18. baseballor Tony 20. Thug 22. Close
24. Spider's dwelling 
26. leaked Ichor 
28. Aid
31. Alter text33. Yon
34. Hairpiece
35. Biblical first non36. Ockhan'a _____
40. Wrestling arena 
42. Continuo44. Wlpo out 
46. Slim48. P.enovod center 
50. Vllllan in Young 
Sherlock Holms 52. 10th month (abbr.) 
54. American ship prefix 56. Contlcnan'n title 
58. Taxi
0. Melancholy.4. Including 
7. Colonel (forth9. Make felino nolso
08. Struck 12. Colleague 14. Adam's nate
by Mark Kantrowitz
a
 In a laddergram, the object _
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the _ 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of _ 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without  
changing the positions of3
 the other letters. For 
example, we can change v 
LEAD into GOLD in just * 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD. 
GOAD. GOLD.
CLOSE to HOME johx m'phhrsOn
17. Ccnplex in thought 19. Unit of energy 21. Dull brovn 
23. Ruined chance 25. Weep
29. Chenlcal suffix30. Again, ratador! 
32. Genesis song 34. Cautioned
38. Feminine nano39. Slov41. Nicotine residue 
43. Stare
45. Children's gano47. alt.___.gaaes
49. Highor arount 
51. Also 
53. Fronch coin 55. Dam!
57. Happens
59. Oriental dagger60. Banesticatos
61. Goof
62. River's hcrao
Copyright 0 1994 Copyright 0 i&jj
by Mork Kantromtz. by Mark Kontro^.
All rights reserved. All rights reseryjCLOSE TO HOME john mcphersi
ALMOST PONE.' 1dioTh SHES GOT 
EVERYTHING... SENSE 
OP PERSONAL HYGIENE, 
PERSONALITY, WCREASEb 
PHYSICAL STRENGTHioTh YeP!\
wo*// SHE'S SO 
HUMAN-LIKE!
SO/fRY... 
ACCIDENTALLY.. V 
SHORTWi
EWtlaWnos 
HER LEFT] ] ARM. J
fmj-B-GONElWHooPS
UAA___IL
LEO HAMB0 Q93H aSASReph*6e that 
MrtOTIFVIl. BR0HZE 
SLOW WITH A 
SipKtY. PALLID 
LOOK IN JUST -S 15 MINUTASI
WHERE'S YOUR ROBOT?T
^ CZX Right here/ 
DON'T TRY TO MAKE aT\ 
OOK STUP/b. NO ROBOT 
CAN LOOM THAT HUMAN.' J
K OK! X 
^T) BELIEVE
* *oT
OR, LET'S SEE THE ROBOTS 
You BUILT FOR THE ASSIGNMENT,
D/WE HITCHCOCK SUEH00P ER
Nobody was too pleased with the 
yearbook staff at Whatney High.A new service for people who call in sick 
and spend the day playing in the sun.
Mtx Vf//OlTVl ^ 
cosTunnEs THAT 
5HML,UVM 
$oXYWhats a Wendell?
I con V belie Yi?,s' 
ltt!(U-U? i r nnvet 
by Matt Goldberg
' Uli-.- WViao., yForaet rt.
Randall 5 Trapped I L^t^g <V
in The iaViinj A wa.+ch
matWing. aain.rt|\ TV/
'Jea.h... Keck, wit've 
always been +Ve, 
cnrrfainin9 ones 
an^wcxy/ So let's 
just" Piake jokcS J
oSgemi .mi
HflUS V PtflVIU6? WRITE M tJrtH 
COh-Ul&JS AT <iui% S> AiOOeEu)
'i TKf f IBtN
SUfEHVILWUS 
U0MT IN 
MwMUMAWP DESPITE YoUK 
OBNOXIOUS ATTlTUPE,
You're, up for "coach 
OF THE YEAI^1' HONORS. 
EyEKVgopY 15 HAPPY
WITH OUR .SUCCESS.
War olmt ur 
pgTrcruWrkm ugm Tfp 
fc WarC Cumr Wark 
Clgr9Sruo9fvT up tWut 
E!hiLk
WELL, FRED, I'M
TLEI8 E, h2i 
nEM UEIyLi
DOINGWITH THF 
 TEAM.
AcT^AliV,
\C0UID SWEwu?t sipev^c^
0U JDDi,PPL~y
mrnr 7
stfuM Imit TB bwk iT-ro tou, pal, gor I aint 
am Risc kV Ufi So Vod 
hA^E A HAK SAHrtiTcrtJ.
ISibdbqnnnn ac1^ cC
THE MOWERS HAVE. 
REQUESTEP THAT YOU STOP 
LSEKVINt BEER AWP 
CI&AKETItS AT TEAM 
VICTOKV CAKTIES.-W I HEA^D THEYuERf tM AiTEBTHt 
P5TWB $N,At>.^
C.fXMWt-
WHAT AuUAWS eo*APtAi>H>6.
Pi>n,r Koc< rue. sPomzs," "Aim, Oow'r rMt<c twe 
UjfATUERMAK) CM'" Jia( ,OlJ'T KA 
oF 1H CAU.etti' 1 vJ A,i^es 11 
LfAMe seewe'fl-e . UHj-uJft'WAe' MA. RmgYpo
we SlWO -OfF NT l/OCMS^&CT! N'd-e A.
euAf QA$rt><fl.v u> _________
7 r--^. ^A
rj,\ As uri I bT uews
(>4^ **-
'viiy C\Ti) ^ K5 ftPAT>cASTi^6A ///MS V) b 4 Prf%r/{\ e>^T -frtiSj
\ T IS /TrV /
WHAT -IK'S l<i(
rr'Sh RatiC>s 6oK.
Von vciiu yHEi 
X. VCuJT
\\ Dk CASTP ?.) tCiiixO
V5At-i ? uJU-, ( Ho RE MWS fb(? Youwe'de ZXcT\o A CHM)6e" 1
Voia< sKiw, Aijo erme* vm SuaUP.l.l
Vou'ftt ^// \ 'J'i "\ U9r
TMeV E.Icr djMrrprY w sU 
oww Hert -tW^T THFi wuE
ISi^.US$ UMfio!
Nrfe-TWS ft
s-aR9 $rto^
UJ0L, IViftT 
mtes sense
U/AS(J1T 0f0 
fciuJiUiisT
OH , po 
l kkv/ TO o*"
f^osT ^
T^u<
\ Play H Ffr -,
\ KJE^'^E Jf'72 
\ \ mo-v Kenny
PiAvmr I
<w<p^o

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89, Issue 22DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 April 1995
Only Everything shows mastery
gy DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
rtist: Juliana Hatfield 
alburn: Only Everything
The most striking feature bei her beauty is her voice. It 
has a child-like in
nocence uttering 
v/ords of love, hate, 
and forgiveness. Her 
musicianship is also 
just as nice, versa
tile with an unend
ing sense of original
ity. Her new album,
Only Everything 
(which also comes in
luscious fur cov
ered limited edition 
release, explain that 
one to me), has what 
it takes to go above 
and beyond the 
amazing success of 
her last release, Be
come What You Are.
Like many of the art
ists today, she is 
reaching towards the 
past and her roots to
find inspiration, and as many 
artists are finding inspiration in 
the right places, so is Juliana.
She was a choice along with the 
Breeders and Belly last year as
its own personality, from the 
hushed tones of a Hammond or
gan on Universal Heart Beat to 
the heavy throbbing bass dub on 
Fleur de Lys. Some of the later
an act for Spring Carnival, of tracks on the disc, like Live On 
which, Belly won out. Tomorrow and Hang Down
Each track on this album has From Heaven, are pleasantly
mellow and reflective, 
which is rare for many hot 
artists nowadays. On this 
album, like her others, she 
builds on a solid base and 
works from that, like a mas
ter potter working on her 
next piece. Like some other 
albums I heard, this one 
leaves some studio rough
ness, like bridge calls, mix
ing calls, and rough begin
nings to provide us with a 
sense that theres a real 
person behind the guitar 
and microphone.
This may, in the words of 
Steven Wright in Reservoir 
Dogs, never become a pop 
bubble gum classic, but its 
definitely a watermark re
lease that many current 
artists should try to achieve 
in their lifetime.
Atlantic/Mammoth Records 
Juliana Hatfields latest effort, Only Everything, is 
completely written by her, and shows a great deal of 
true innovation on her part.
Police falls short of genius
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Play: Police Boys
At: Pittsburgh Public Theatre
I will accept the basic message ofPolice Boys  
non-violence and tolerance, but I just cant ac
cept its medium. Written by Marion Isaac 
McClinton and performed at the Pittsburgh Pub
lic Theater, Police Boys is the story of a gangaddled police force and the many trials and 
troubles it faces. First, there is Comanche, a 
Voodoo-toting lawyer/policeman that tries to find 
the truth and reason behind gang violence. Then 
wehavethe overly emphatic female officer, played 
by Nancy Giles, and the mildly crazy younger 
cop, played by Russell Andrews. Finally, we are 
presented with the wise, yet stern, police'chief 
and the icy, lesbian DA. Throw in a 14-year-old 
gang member who murdered and raped a woman, 
and you either have a commentary on the state of 
the world or an overly melodramatic romp 
through the problems of the age. The story, or at 
least some of it, is as follows: Comanche and his 
partner, played by Leland Gantt, were once gang 
members but split up due to a question of honor. 
Comanche asks the Voodoo pantheon for help, 
and receives a sign from the Signifying Monkey, 
a symbol for African-American discontent and
anger. The sign, it seems, is the 14-year-old 
Royal Boy (admirably played by Akili Prince), of 
whom we learn the story of a slow arc downward 
into gang life. There is violence interspersed 
among slow commentary on the plight presented, 
and a climax, just as should be expected. How
ever, it just did not work.
I had quite a few problems with the presenta
tion of the ideas. Police Boys could have been a 
powerful play had it been more reserved. In
stead, this three-hour play tells too much in too 
short a time, mostly in part due to McClintons 
wordy exuberance. The language of the charac
ters was stilted, and the plot twists came too 
quickly. Unfortunate comic book violence and 
costuming worked against the actors, and 
McClintons lengthy prose did not exactly drip off 
of their tongues. In short, I found Police Boys to 
be overly enthusiastic and entirely too lengthy 
for a play with its message.
It seems that Police Boys is a work in progress, 
which would explain some of the references to 
extremely current events that popped up now 
and again. That would also explain some of the 
problems in the play itself, as well as those with 
the actors. However, I have also seen a great deal 
of hype about this work, and I see little truth to 
it. Police Boys was a disappointment. However, if 
McClinton keeps working at it, it may, someday, 
become the message that it wants to be.
Andy Warhol Museum entertains patrons with old, new art displays
nTEELING PITTn0U9GHn 
THUNDE9
By Gretel Gaat
and on the advice of the woman at the 
information desk, we first explored the 
first floor, then rode the elevator up to 
the seventh, working our way down.
I should warn you that there are many 
faces, places, and things in this museum 
which you wont be familiar with, but 
dont let it disinterest you. Warhols art
Directly across the 7th Street Bridgeithe North Side sits Pittsburghs rela
tively new Andy Warhol Museum. Just 
opened last year, the museum is a trib
ute to one of the citys native sons and 
perhaps the most important artistic in
fluence of the latter half of the 20th 
century.
Personally, I didnt know that much 
about Warhol himself before I went to 
museum; even my familiarity with 
his art barely exceeded a few scant 
glimpses of reprints of Warhols 
Campbells Soup Cans. For those of you 
are like I was, and fear this igno
rance will somehow prevent you from 
enjoying the Warhol Museum, rest as
sured that your worries are misplaced. 
Two friends of mine and I went to the 
museum on a Thursday evening, and I 
immediately realized that the building 
was much larger than I expected it to be.
this reason, I highly recommend 
that you only visit the museum when 
you have quite a lot of time to spend 
there; its an ideal place to spend a rainy 
weekend afternoon with a date or even a 
group of friends. The admission was 
only $3 a person, a special student rate,
1990 Estate/Foundation of Andy Warhol 
Andy Warhol specialized in pop art," and used to make paintings 
of, among other things, Campbells soup cans, celebrities, and 
bottles of Perrier, as shown above.
proves his talent, and there are many 
displays that have textual explanations 
as complements to them.
Unfortunately, due to time constraints,
I wasnt able to read all of them, which I 
regret, simply because they give excel
lent insights to Warhol and his work.
There is, of course, certain artwork 
that stands out above the rest, but for 
the most part, everything is interesting 
to see. My personal favorites include 
Elvis Eleven Times (you gotta love the 
King!) on the sixth floor; RainMachine, 
a virtually indescribable display that 
combines moving water and pictures, on 
the fifth floor; 
and on the 
fourth floor, 
Last Supper, 
an almost 
startling take 
on the old pic
ture weve all 
seen hanging 
in Grandmas 
dining room.
The overall 
best, most en
tertaining dis
play in the mu
seum, how
ever, is found 
on the fifth 
floor. Its 
called Silver 
Clouds, andis 
an entire room 
filled withfloating, sil
ver, pillow-shaped balloons, kept in con
stant motion due to the presence of a fan. 
The best thing about this room is that 
patrons are welcomed to go in and play 
with the balloons themselves, a refresh
ing change of pace from the normal 
PLEASE DO NOT TOUCH signs.
I should warn you, however, that heed
ing the Handle Carefully sign will be 
to your benefit; one of my friends got a 
little overly excited in the room, and we 
ended up being followed by a security 
woman for the rest of our stay.
Also worth seeing are the Interview 
covers on the third floor, featuring celeb
rities on the magazine founded by Warhol 
in 1969. Noteworthy as well are the 
many works featuring famous people, 
from Jackie Kennedy 
to Mick Jagger, spread 
throughout the mu
seum, and the infa
mous Oxidations on 
the seventh floor.
Many are familiar 
with Oxidations, 
which Warhol created 
by urinating on vari
ous canvases.
They are very in
teresting to see, 
though I had a hard 
time getting the 
thought, This is art? 
out of my head.
No matter what 
your personal feelings 
toward urine might be, I still recom
mend taking a look at these displays 
(though I wouldnt recommend touching 
them when the guards back is turned).
In addition to the typical art exhib
its, there are intriguing collages located 
at several points on each floor which 
display a number of Warhols personal 
belongings. I am the sort of person awed
by such things as notes to Warhol from 
celebrities and invitations to galas 
around the world. If you, too, would get 
a kick out of seeing a letter from Chris
topher Superman Reeve or a personal 
invite from Truman Capote, then make 
sure you take a look at these.
Also on display, inside glass-covered 
cases in the middle of the rooms, are a 
few of the materials that inspired some 
of Warhols work; from photographs to 
newspaper clip
pings, these 
things really 
give an insight 
into some of his 
creative pro
cesses.
Basically, I 
would have to 
give the Andy 
Warhol Mu
seum a good re
view; its defi
nitely a fun and 
interesting 
place to spend 
an afternoon or 
evening, no 
matter who you 
are with.
For those students with parents who 
visit from out of town, this museum 
could solve your dilemma of where to go; 
it certainly shows Pittsburghs creative 
side.
The Andy Warhol Museum adds a 
great soft edge to the Steel City, and I 
highly recommend it.
Place of interest:
The Andy Warhol Museum
Museum Information:
(412) 237-8300
Museum Hours:
Wed, Sun 11 am  6 pm
Thu-Sat 11 am - 8 pm
Mon-Tue Closed
Admission:
Adults$5
Senior Citizens$4
Students and Children$3
Members, Carnegie Institute Free
Claiborne good, but not great
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
Movie: Dolores Claiborne 
Starring: Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, 
Christopher Plummer
discover the shocking truth behind Joes and 
Veras deaths, flashbacks are used ingeniously 
and seamlessly to show us the events as they 
happened.
Present-day Maine is a dreary, cold place, 
where all the col orb are muted, and everything is 
worn out. In the flashbacks, we see a happier 
One quiet afternoon, on an island off the coast of time for Dolores, where colors stand out brilMaine, wheelchair-ridden Vera Donovan is killed liantly, and there is a warmth permeating everywhen she falls down a flight of 
stairs. In Dolores Claiborne, the 
i^itle character (Kathy Bates) is 
accused of murdering Donovan 
(Judy Parfitt), her boss, whom 
she cared for as a live-in maid 
tod nurse. Hearing about the 
incident, Dolores daughter 
(Jennifer Jason Leigh) 
leaves New York to find out what 
happened. Meanwhile, the case
* being investigated by Detec
tive John Mackey (Christopher 
Summer), who is convinced that 
Dolores murdered Vera and got 
Way with murdering her hus
band 15 years before.
Dolores is a tough lady, who 
:eels she doesnt need a lawyer, 
tod can stand up for herself.Stephen King
Serenais ajoumalist who drinks Dolores Claiborne is the latest in a 
tod takes a lot of prescription |ong |jne of Stephen King novel-totfugs. Her father Joe (David movie adaptions, 
pfrathairn) was an abusive al^olic who died accidentally. Dolores was ac
cused of the murder, but acquitted. But did she 
Murder Joe? Building itself up to climax where we
thing.
Make-up was used to age 
Bates from a woman in her 
30s tryingto make money to 
send her daughter to a good 
college, to the hardened, sarcastic, quick-tongued 
woman in her 50s who has 
been accused of murder.
This movie was an inter
esting one. The story is based 
on the book by horror writer 
Stephen King, and it really 
does not seem like a typical 
King horror story. No super
natural entities, haunted 
vacant hotels, or rabid dogs 
in this one. No, we have a 
woman accused of murder 
who has a past she doesnt 
want to reveal.
This film could be classi
fied as a human drama or 
a psychological mystery, 
and is worth seeing if you get the chance. But you 
dont have to run out and see it right now.
Blues master rejuvenates standards
By RICH LUBELL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Artist: John Lee Hooker 
Album: Chill Out
Its hard to know how to judge 
someone like John Lee Hooker. 
Legends live by their own stan
dards . Hooker is a great of post
war electric blues and had a 
profound influence on bands 
like the Rolling Stones. Per
haps it is best to rate him on the 
scale of his own work. Based on 
that scale, Chill Out, Hookers 
latest release, is a mellow, s'oulful, uneven album.
Much is said about the album 
by its title. Hookers signature 
wailing voice and fiery guitar 
are not here. Hooker instead 
chooses cool, stripped-down gui
tar sound that recalls his Delta 
upbringing. Tupelo works one 
chord to create a soft, yet driv
ing rhythm, backed by Hookers 
familiar stomping foot. On 
Woman On My Mind, he plies 
lively note clusters from a steel 
guitar, laying them over his rich, 
bass humming. With minimalist 
guitar, Hookers textured voice 
comes out strongly. Hooker 
doesnt let loose, but keeps his
voice on slow bum throughout. 
The result is smooth and deep. 
Hookers heart-wrenching vocals 
on IfYouve Never Been In Love 
are as smoky and emotional as 
they get. Hooker is best when 
alone, just his guitar and his voice.
Unfortunately, this is not the
Pointblank Records 
John Lee Hookers latest album, Chill 
Out, blends old and new styles of blues 
to create a pleasantly soft mix.
case for almost half of the album. 
Like The Healer and Mr. Lucky, 
Hookers two most successful alshadowed rather than showcased. 
The Latin flavorings of Carlos 
Santana in the title track seem 
out of place. Hooker seems lost 
behind the urbane piano styling 
of Charles Brown on tracks like 
Annie Mae. One Bourbon, One 
Scotch, One Beer, a Hooker origi
nal turned into a barroom 
classic by George Thorogood, 
is disappointingly tame and 
stale. A duet with Van 
Morrison, Serves Me Right 
To Suffer/Syndicator, fea
tures Booker T. Jones on or
gan and creates a insistent 
groove, but this song is an 
exception. As an ambassa
dor of the blues, he has ev
ery right to the respect and 
talent shown by these musi
cal guests. It is unfortunate 
that the more Hooker has 
used these cameos, the less 
theyve worked. Hookers 
skill and style stand well 
enough on its own, both here 
and in general. If you are 
looking for rootsy, subdued blues 
well suited to a romantic evening, 
Chill Out is worth a listen. If you
bums, Chill Out is peppered with want the searing, hard-rocking 
guest appearances. Several boogie that made Hooker famous, 
tracks feature Hookers vocals he has over 40 years of other 
only, but they tend to be overmaterials which you can choose.

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995
Rob Roy has Oscar 
winning potential
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Movie: Rob Roy
Starring: John Hurt, Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange, Brian Cox, 
Eric Stoltz
This is the story of Robert Roy McGregor, a well respected 
Scotsman during the Scottish cultural and social revolution of 
the mid-1700s, and his struggle to maintain a sense of indepen
dence. From the title, you would think that this movie is about 
someone starting a chain of family restaurants, but it isnt. I 
cant really do a summary of the action within the movie because 
I would be spoiling much of it. The story is convoluted due to the 
fact that its ordinary and slightly mundane, but its extraordi
nary because its never been on film before. The acting is superb 
and emotion-filled, but sometimes, more often than not, totally
Richard Foreman
Jessica Lange costars in Rob Roy, a film about a respected 
Scotsman in the mid-18th century Scottish cultural revolution.
fails to get the audience involved into guessing whats next. 
There is virtually nothing predictable unless you read the book 
before you saw the movie, which was very popular when a 
similar movie, Last of the Mohicans, came out. This had every
one rushing back to their attic, library, or bookstore in order to 
compare the original book to the screenplay adaptation. I would 
definitely like to see this happen to this movie. In other regards 
to the similarity in tone to Last of the Mohicans, the score for the 
picture stands out far above anything that isnt classified as 
acting in the movie. The score itself is written by Carter Burwell, 
famous for his score to Raising Arizorta and no so much for the 
recent Hudsucker Proxy. It sounds, well, Scottish, but can be 
compared to a mix of John Williams Far And Away and Randy 
Edelman and Trevor Jones Mohicans score.
After last years Schindlers List, Neeson has made a name for 
himself in Hollywood, which of course, helped him gamer this 
role. This 6'4" Scotsman has a very, how can you say it, large 
screen presence; so much so that it had me practicing my deep 
Scottish accented imitation of Neeson, which came out sounding 
like Sean Connerys 007. Oh well. Hopefully this role will help 
him receive the Oscar he deserves after all these years in 
Hollywood playing characters in films like Darkman and last 
years Nell. The villains like Brian Coxs Archibald are good and 
thoroughly evil, just like they are supposed to come off, and 
youre definitely satisfied with how the story is resolved at the 
end. I do have to make mention of two items before I finish this 
review however. This film is unconventional in two ways: it loves 
sex scenes and its violence is real good violence, the kind of stuff 
you look at and say: (in a Bart Simpson voice) Cooooll I counted 
a total of, hmmmmmm, five overly blatant sex scenes that work 
when taken contextually in this movie; even then, its still a good 
date movie. As I mentioned before, dont be surprised if you see 
this as a dark horse Oscar nominee.
TIN SOLDIERS AND NIXON COMING___
SATURDAY ? APRIL 22 ? 10 p.m.
BITTER DELORES THE EDDISONS
THE LEFT f I ^ PEACEFIELD
BLINDS1GHT I J. 1 KARL MULLEN
ALAN CANFORA vIV ALL AGES SHOW
WOUNDED AT KENT STATE STUDENTS W/ID ONLY 53
LUCIANOS COFFEEHOUSE ? 1023 FORBES AVE. 
25th Anniversary of the Kent State / Jackson State Shootings 
May 4 and 13.1970 
STUDENTS CAN CHANGE THE WORLD
CONSIDERING A CHIROPRACTIC CAREER?CONSIDER LOGAN AS ITS FOUNDATION.
Logan College of Chiropractic is now accepting applications for our 1995 entering classes in January, May, and September.
Required at time of entry:Specific degree-level coursework from an accredited college or university.BA personal interest in a career as a primary care 
physician.Logan College offers:A professional school of 800 students with an extremely low student/faculty ratio.Preparation for a career as a doctor, licensed as a Primary Healthcare Provider in the United States and all Canadian provinces.In five academic years, a combination of basic science and clinical science with clinical preparation, clinical performance, and chiropractic 
concepts and practices.Accreditation by the Council on Chiropractic Educa
tion and the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools.A beautiful campus in the suburbs of a major metro
politan area with a low cost of living.
For complete information, just request our portfolio by writing or calling, toll free, 800/782-3344 (in Canada, ft's 800/533-9210).LOGAN
COLLEGE ? OF CHIROPRACTIC 
1851 Schocttler RoadoBox 1065* Chesterfield, MO 63006-1065
Cheesy movie group cranks B-grade fun
FILE 13
By Carey Clevenger
Its time to make good on a 
promise. A few months ago, when 
the topic of discussion was the 
Trancers films, I told you that 
you could look forward to an ex
clusively All Full Moon Enter
tainment article. So, after some 
delay, here it is.
Full Moon Entertainment has 
been around since at least 1987. 
Im not terribly familiar with how 
they came about, or when, but I 
am aware that they were releas
ing films about this time. Full 
Moon exclusively makes science 
fiction, horror, or fantasy genre 
films, and then releases them 
straight to video (although some 
of them have been known to show 
up on pay TV channels). Their 
films are usually suffixed with a 
Full Moon Videozone: a short 
segment at the end, telling you 
what theyre up to, and usually 
containing behind-the-scenes 
footage from the movie youve just 
finished watching. Many of their 
films have at least one sequel; in 
fact, their current filmmaking 
trend is to film two films at the 
same time to cut down on produc
tion costs.
In addition, if you watch the 
Videozone all of the way through, 
theres an address you can right 
to for your very own merchandis
ing catalog, chock full o Full Moon 
goodies and fun stuff.
All of this said, lets take a look 
at some of their work:
Puppet Master
The Puppet Master series is 
possibly their best known, as 
many of these have actually made 
it onto cable. Before World War 
II, a puppeteer named Toulon 
amazed prewar France with his 
incredibly lifelike creations. The 
Nazis soon discovered his secret: 
he had used a bizarre ritual to 
actually bring his creations to 
jerky, animated life.
The puppets in the movies are, 
without a doubt, the best parts: 
my personal favorite is the hook
handed and stiletto-armed pup
pet in the black trenchcoat and 
hat (his origin is featured in the 
third film). Each subsequent film 
adds a new puppet to their ranks: 
a skull-headed flamethrower in 
the second, a six-armed gunner 
in the third, and a puppet ca
pable of transforming his head 
into various weapons in the 
fourth. If you ever decide to start 
watching any of these, dont get 
too caught up in the plot; the 
puppets are really nifty and cre
ative, but the storylines are rather 
lacking. But if youre looking for 
psycho puppet mania, theyre 
definitely something to look for.
Dollman
Another Full Moon classic. Tim 
Thomerson (From Trancers) is 
back to reprise his role as a tough 
detective. While pursuing his 
arch-nemesis (a headthats all 
thats left from their previous 
encounters) through space, both 
crafts crash-land on Earth, where 
they are merely inches tall.
Thomerson, the stalwart crime 
fighter, ends up in a rough neigh
borhood under the control of a
Writing Well Communications
Affordable, expert editorial assistance with all text.
mmBtxsw? Hfis us mmm
SOPHOMORErrs NOT TOO LATE TO ON OURTEAM
+ fi mno ax mia oim imm m summ 
+tm our mmo no(w iis fi }uwr 
+my fix mmm /mi fimfis i
CONTACTTHE DEPT. OF MILITARY SCIENCE FOR MORE INFORMATION: 
STOP BY 2902 C. OF L. OR CALL 624-61 97 / 61 96
You can clean up the rivers if you try, if you get to them early enough. You can pro
tect rain forests, if you stop the destruction early enough. Past a certain point its too 
late and thats what all these efforts are aboutto save us from ourselves. I just hope 
that there are enough people out there who can realize that with us and can do their 
part as we are now.   Lorin Maazel
Opus: Earth
Celebrating the Spirit and Beauty of the Environment
A Gala Benefit Concert for Chatham Colleges 
Rachel Carson Institute and World Wildlife Fund
with
Lorin Maazel - 
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
and some very special guests 
I Playing some of the most beautiful music ever written 
including Debussys The Sea 
and Strauss Blue Danube
Tuesday, April 18, 1995 8:00 P.M.
Heinz Hall
This spectacular evening will include a spccial presentation to Teresa Heinz, who will receive 
die Rachel Carson Leadership Award, which recognizes outstanding leadership for preserv
ing our environment in the spirit of Chatham College alumna Rachel Carson.
Kwsmsi rcsa InhCj WUe kilbacik Uc IdvT 15O,
Non-student Tickets: $12.50, $25.00, $35.00.
For Tickets call Heinz Hall TicketCharge at 392-4900 
or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office
A portion of your ticket is a tax deductible contribution to Chatham Colleges Environmental Scholarship Fund and World Wildlife Fund.
Oput Einh a nuJc praiblc. in pin. ihroufh tbc ftncraity of Duquont Lifhi. .Mtlloa Bint Oxpondoo, Btcbrith Mjctunoy Comfany inj Dollar But 
Driving of Rjchd Orion by Dim) Ltnr*. Rtpnnicd wth pcrmiiuon from The New York Ron of Booli. Copjnjht IW, Njrcr.lnc.
gang of street toughs, and the 
plot gets even more bizarre after 
that. Pretty soon the street gang 
is working with his enemy to take 
over the world, and its up to our 
foot-tall hero to save the day! If 
you never want to see a Full Moon 
film in your life, make sure you at 
least see this one.
Bad Channels
When a new radio station be
comes the only station with a 
frequency of 66.6 FM nationwide, 
news teams from across the coun
try come to get their first glimpse 
of The Superstation. Even 
Martha Quinn shows up to re
port! However, its only a matter 
of time before bad things start to 
happen. A UFO lands and takes 
over the station, and starts min
iaturizing women, placing them 
in glass jars. Its up to the DJ 
the only person insideto stop 
these nefarious deeds!
This movie was really bad. I 
have seen a lot of Full Moon films, 
and this one is possibly the worst 
I have seen yet. Use it sparingly.
Oblivion
Although not the worst Full 
Moon film I have seen, its a close 
second. The selling point for the 
movie is something about Cow
boys and Aliens. Basically, its a 
planet thats like the Old West: 
except that they have Aliens in
stead of Indians, and laser pis
tols instead of guns.
One of the things that makes 
this movie so bad is its blatant 
exploitation. For example, Miss 
Kitty, the owner of the local 
Cathouse, is played by Julie 
Newmar, so she plays the part 
the way she used to play 
Catwoman. Carel Struckyen, who 
played Lurch in theAddams Fam
ily movies, plays a mortician! 
named Gaunt. And George Takei 
shows up in possibly his worst 
role yet: the town drunk/inventor/doctor. Expect a lot of 
Star Trek quips.
The Subspecies Series
Unfortunately, I have never 
seen any of this series in its en
tirety. I did, however, see the 
first half of the very first movie( 
and its the same bizarre creativ
ity you find in the other Full Moon 
titles. If you bother looking on the 
back of the box, youll see that 
Subspecies is a vampire movie. 
During the first few minutes 
however, youll realize that this 
is not going to be your typical 
vampire movie, as we watch an 
older man meticulously remove 
the pellets from a shotgun shell 
and replace them with wooden 
beads. From then on, it only gets 
weirder: the vampire just isnt as 
dashing or good-looking as most 
other movie vampires (with the 
exception of Nosferatu); and he i< 
served by a group of 12-inch-tall 
demon-like minions.
I cant really recommend this 
series, as I have not seen them. 
However, if any of them are 
odd as they seem to be, it should 
be at least entertaining to give 
them a look.
Dollman Vs. Demonic Toys: 
The definitive Full Moon film! A 
three-way combination of 
Dollman, Demonic Toys, and Bad 
Channels. I highly recommend 
this one: its a must-see.
Carey Clevenger is a junior cre
ative writing major. Full Moon, 
flicks are available at most video 
stores in the Horror or Science 
Fiction sections.
CD
TRADER
VISIT A NEW KIND OF MUSIC STORE...
Alternative, blues, jazz, imports, pop/rock, reggae, ska, 
techno, world plus 50 other categories...
10,000 new and used CD's,
hear any CD before you buy it,
low prices, buy or trade program, 
cheap large posters,
and the best deals in the area.
201 South Craig Street 
Oakland 
687-6626
MondaySaturday
in Fr|day 1 lam to 5pm10am to 6pm
WHEN FINALS ARE OVER,
THE CRAMMING BEGINS.
Save time and energy. Bring everything 
down to Mail Boxes Etc and let us pack 
it all up and ship it home.
And remember that when it comes to packing 
and shipping unusual items, no one is more 
knowledgeable than your nearby MBE.
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
MAIL BOXES ETC'
Franchis Independently Ownod and Oporaled.
414 South Craig St. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
687-6100
6393 Penn Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
362-7200
E 1993 Mail Boxes Etc

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  17 April 1995L9
Thursday, April 20Athens, GA Inside Out
Somebody told me this movie is supposed to be 
really good, so Ill be kind of nice. Its a documen
tary on the cultural and artistic mecca that is 
Athens, Georgia, and talks to the B-52s, REM, 
and Frankenstein about the whole art scene 
and other fun stuff. Fairly independent, this 
movie is well made and pretty damn interesting 
if youre into that whole scene. REM plays an 
Everly Brothers tune and the B-52s try to 
resuscitate their failing career by playing in a 
stupid motion picture presented by Steven 
Spielberg. In general, its a nice time and pretty 
interesting. And, as they say in the bathroom 
stall, go home Dad, youre drunk.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, April 21Mary Shelleys Franken
stein
Currently playing at Lucianos with a blend of 
funk fusion rock and Morphin power, Mary 
Shelleys Frankenstein made a big splash on 
campus with their wild performances at Carni
val. Starring Marlon Brando as the big bopper 
himself, this movie is a fusion of funk rock and 
cool jazz licks thatll bring your toes to tapping.
Anyway, the story is pretty straightforward. 
Theres a big dead guy that scares people. I 
mean, what more could you ask for. Historically 
accurate, this movie is made in the fine tradi
tion of Bram Stones Dracula and the Count 
Chocula commercials. Directed by somebody 
and starring a lot of other people, this movie is 
a find. And, as one wise-arse wrote in a bath
room stall, flush twice  its a long way to 
Highlander.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, April 22
Young Frankenstein
OK, now, this is a Funkenstein you can really 
sink your fingers into. Starring Gene Wilder, 
Teri Garr, Cloris Leachman, and a bunch of 
other people, this movie is a parody (which 
means a funny version of) the Frankenstein 
movies. Theres drama! Theres action! Theres 
Gene Wilder pretending to be blind. While it 
wasnt written by Mary Shelley, and doesnt 
have a unique blend of folk-jam-fusion-funk, its 
still a nice movie. And, as some other guy in a 
bathroom stall said, Lou likes to smell my feet.
Four stars. Joe-Bob says check it out.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, April 2313 Ghosts
Ummmm ... ummmm ... lets see. Well... this 
movie is about stuff thats pretty scary, you 
know? And there is a lot of black and white 
involved, and there are no cute little lion cubs or 
dorks on park benches pushing bon-bons. But 
its a movie, nonetheless. I mean ... see ... what 
happens is that theres this thing, see, and there 
are these 13 ghosts involved? Pretty exciting, so 
far, no? But then what happens is that this 
family moves into this house and sees some 
freaky ghosts or some shit. So they get scared 
and leave.
This movie was originally filmed in IllusionO which is some kind of funky glasses thing 
that lets you see the ghosts floating around in 
your pants or something. Anyway, its pretty 
exciting.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
New album blends audio, multimedia
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Sarah McLachlan 
Album: The Freedom Sessions 
(Compact Disc + MultiMedia)
Its nice when you get an album 
thats released as a compendium 
to one thats already a hit and
tions in an interview, the original 
album was called Fumbling To
wards Ecstasy: The Freedom Ses
sions but the record company 
thought it was too long and short
ened it to the now famous Fum
bling Towards Ecstasy which was 
up for a Grammy this year with 
the likes of Tori Amos and Green 
Day. This disc, however, contains 
studio re-work
ing of many of 
the songs on her 
previous album.
All of the 
tracks are ac
oustic, and beat 
the pants off 
anything MTV 
could take from 
any of their Unplugged ses
sions. My per
sonal favorites 
are Mary and 
Ice Cream 
which are very 
fun to listen to,
no matter 
which album 
they may be on. 
Sarah com
ments that if
Arista Records
Sarah Mclachlans latest offering, The Freedom 
Sessions, blends unreleased studio tracks with a 
multimedia treat for a great McLachlan experience.
find that you like this one more youve never heard her in conbecause theres more substance cert, that the remake of Ice 
to it. Well, this best describes The Cream sounds like the one that 
Freedom Sessions. she usually plays then, which
Its also fascinating, because most of the people on the Internet 
includes on the disc is a multinewsgroup believe to be true.
media track that can be played 
on a PC or Mac that contains 
interviews and music videos from 
all of Sarahs albums. As she menShe was on tour here last Au
gust to promote Fumbling and 
has been touring the West Coast 
and Canada for the past year or
so. The closest her tour 
comes to us is Chicago,
Philadelphia, and one 
stop in Toronto.For all 
of us techno-geeks out 
there, and I know this 
campus has at least a 
few, the multi-media 
tracks are and addition 
that make this already 
great album, even 
greater. She even has a 
World Wide Web page 
at http://www.nettwerk.com/sarahpg.html for all of her 
fans who sit behind the The Freedom Sessions is a compilation of 
keyboard and net-surf. reworked songs from Sarah McLachlan's 
Besides running comFumbling Towards Ecstacy, which was 
mentary throughout the supposed to bear said name, 
disc, there are music videos and (oops, did I say that in public), 
sound clips from her albums in Anyhow, since this release, I have 
case youre not the overzealous played it incessantly on my stefan and has everything shes done reo, never getting enough, and if
you get it, nei
ther will you. 
For those of you 
who like sound
tracks, the last 
track on here, 
0155 (by Tom 
Waits), anoears 
in the now hit 
movie, Boys On 
The Side.
So with all 
this to offer, I 
think that 
McLachlan is 
an artist to 
watch now as 
well as in the 
future.
Arista Records
PC and Macintosh users can point and click to 
choose any amount of soundclips and Quicktime 
movies to watch and listen to.
100% Fun rocks listeners with pop riffs
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Matthew Sweet 
Album: 100% Fun
Ive been listening to Matthew Sweet ever since he released 
Girlfriend, mainly because the stuff he did before that isnt worth 
mentioning, but mostly because the album spoke to me. It didnt
speak to me the 
way some 
Beatles records 
spoke to people 
in the 1960s 
and 1970s (see 
Charles Manson), but it hit 
that special 
chord that said, 
hey these 
songs are cool 
and this album 
is what your 
lifes been wait
ing for.
I doted on this 
album for a 
couple of years
_______until AlteredEpic Records Beas(was re-100% Fun, Matthew Sweet's newest album, brushes iease(j in 1993,
off the dust created by the unimpressive Altered which thorBeast release last year. oughly did not
impress me. At this years go round, Sweet has evolved back into the 
state he was in just before Girlfriend was released, which, for those
of you who dont know, is good for the listener, but bad for him. 
Sweets albums are of a very personal nature and revolve around 
Boy meets girl. Boy loses girl. Boy gets depressed. Boy writes song. 
Boy makes a lot of cash and girl still remains unimpressed. In this 
album there is a mix of happy type songs mixed in with the 
melancholy ones of 
his past.
Thegoodtracks on 
this album are 
spacedoutrather in
terestingly. He tries 
a couple of new in
strumental tech
niques that give the 
music a retro feel 
that makes the 
songs better than 
some of the ones on 
the monumental 
Girlfriend album.
I personally think 
the best track on the 
album is the happytoned Superbaby, 
which is has a good 
heavy beat and good
1990's Girlfriend set the tone for 100% Fun, 
as Matthew Sweets first real success.
instrumentals that brings back the feel of his previous hits. Like 
in his previous albums there is a soft reflective track at the end of 
this disc, Smog Moon, which, though its a love song, seems a 
commentary on air pollution.
The album has a retro feel and look, and thats what makes it 
good, because Sweet does retro so well.
So, while they still have this one on sale, get it; its great to read 
or do class work by, and makes you feel like your life cant be all 
that bad.
Comic book sagas make good summer reading
ClMIC 0llK CH9lNICLEn
By Jason Andracki
With the semester winding down I figured 
this wouldbe a good time to make some recom
mendations for summer reading. What fol
lows is a list of complete stories that are topnotch. I was going to save this for the year-end 
issue, but I wanted to give you out-of-towners 
a chance to look for this stuff in our wonderful 
Pittsburgh comic shops. I recommend Eides 
downtown and Phantom of the Attic on Craig 
Street for your back issue needs (email me if 
you need directions to either). For those among 
us on a limited budget, Ive even included a 
cost scale, which is as follows:
$can be purchased for around cover price 
$$  dont buy it all at once 
$$$  some single issues are in the double 
digits-try for a reprint or trade paperback 
$$$$  wait for a reprint or trade paper
back, unless you dont feel like buying books 
next semester 
Ive tried to include if there is a reprint
available, but Im not infallible. Beginning 
with the highest possible recommendation:
1. Marvel Superheroes Secret Wars (AKA 
Secret Wars) #s 1-12
The 12-issue limited series that made my 
childhood and spawned a toy to boot. All the 
great heroes plus all the great villains of the 
Marvel Universe duking it out on a mysterious 
planet.
Writer Jim Shooter and artist Mike Zeck do 
the best work of their careers. Also in issue #8 
(the expensive one of the series), Spider-Mans 
alien costume which later becomes Venom 
appears for the first time.
$$$Trade paperback is available, but Ive 
never seen it.
2. Sandman #s 21-28 A Season of Mists
This is the Sandman storyline that got me 
into the book. Satan quits, leaving Morpheus 
the key to Hell and every area of mythology 
sends a representative to plead for it. Also look 
for the first appearance of Daniel, who played 
a pivotal role in the most recent story line. Neil 
Gaiman at his best.
$$$  Trade paperback available in soft or 
hardcover
3. Batman #s 417-420 Ten Nights of the 
Beast
Mike Zecks second best work (see #1) on a 
story that could only be told during the Cold 
War. Watch for the neatest decapitation scene
ever to get by the Comics Code. Look at 
those classic Zeck teeth.
$$$  Trade paperback is available, 
even with a new Zeck cover.
4. Man of Steel #1-6
The limited series in which John Byrne 
revamped the Superman mythos, and led 
him to a Time Magazine cover. Now what 
other comic book artist can say that? If you 
read any of the Superman comics in the 
past nine years you owe it to yourself to 
read this.
$ Very affordable, with a trade paper
back also available.
5. Amazing Spider-Man #298-300
The debut ofVenom and Todd McFarlane 
as penciler. Also the only thing ever really 
worth reading by David Michelinie. This 
is back when Venom was bad, I mean very 
bad. Plus, the first two parts have Chance, 
one of the coolest and most underrated 
villains ever.
$$$$This will cost you, but its worth 
it. The holidays are coming up too.
That rounds out the top five. Be back 
next week for the rest of the top 10.
Jason Andracki is not going to be a 
sophomore professional writing major for 
much longer. Hed be a rich man if he 
hadnt read and re-read all the above com
ics till they started falling apart.

---------------------------------------------------

from 9:30 am-6 pm, at the Fort Pitt Elementary "I TTVTH f
School in Garfield and several other locations iiviiin-i'HitniBsgBgBgagi 1VI]/L!/1 11\Jl!
throughout th%pea. Students and volunteers
will help brf% arol^ygFound and several other The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-de
projects at the, school. The community is encournominational student study group, provides a
aged to parti^.g^te."The event will conclude with weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and
a picnic dinner and music for all volunteers. For purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tuesmore information, contact Chris File at x8-8933, days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning room
Colin Osbum at x2-2424, or Raj Mirchandani at 236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for more inforx8-1950. mation.
Athens, GA Inside Out will be playing in 
Doherty Hall 2210 on Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, 
and midnight.
Mens and womens tennis will be competing at 
the UAA Championships at Emory University at 
9 am on April 21-23.
Mary Shelleys Frankenstein will be playing in 
Doherty Hall 2210 on Friday at 5,7:30,10 pm and 
12:30 am. .....' r "
Mens and womens outdoor track will be 
competing at the UAA Championships at the 
University of Chicago at 10 am on April 22-23.
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech House 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 9 pm. All are 
invited. For additional information, please call 
268-2484.
The Pittsburgh A^| delation for the Arts in 
Education and Tnulrapy presents Spirituality 
and the Creative Arts in Psychiatric Treatment. 
Through a didactic lecture, artwork examples, 
music, and readings, this program will explore 
various spiritual and transpersonal theories as 
they apply to the use of creative arts in group and 
individual therapy. The lecture will take place on 
April 25 at the Allegheny Intermediate Unit of 
Station Square in the Mann Room. Registration 
and refreshments are 7-7:30 pm and the program 
is from 7:30-9 pm. Admission is $7. For more 
information, call 331-4667.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on camnus afcl^Spp^n iri^Si^ident 
Center room 224,
end Masses are celebrategat 10:30 ani' md 8 pm 
every Sunday in Posner fiall. fftmjnole informa
tion, call the Newman Orarary Corner at 681- 
3181.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Av
enue (near South Craig Street), offers and cel
ebrates Eucharist every Wednesday at noon and 
Sunday at 11 am. Call 682-6886 for more infor
mation.
Hewlett Gallery presents New Designs for the 
Stage, a juried exhibit featuring recent set, sce
nic, costume, lighting, and technical designs of 
this seasons plays produced by Carnegie Mellon 
Drama. The exhibit will run from April 17-27. 
The opening reception will be on April 20 from 5-
7 pm.
Hey Betty! is in search of 60 artists for its 
Underwear as Art Auction to benefit the Pitts
burgh AIDS Task Force Emergency Fund. The 
artist must obtain a pair of boxer shorts or a bra 
from the shop at a refundable $10 entry fee. The 
artist is free to use any medium to transform the 
underwear into a work of art. The entries will be 
exhibited at the store, where the public will be 
invited to vote for their favorite work of art. Gift 
certificates will be awarded to the top three se
lected. For more information, call 363-0999.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelo'v 
Blvd., holds the five daily prayers and conducts 
the Friday sermon at 1 pm. Call 682-5555 ft 
information.
V ox P
Voice o
OpTLlllL
 ike People
Theta: You guys are pushing for the wrong house.... You know where to come if you want to win. 
Just wait till next year! OH BOY!
Zeppelin quote of the week:
I like your custard pie. When you cut it mama, mama, please save me a shceJJ
Hey Shari, hope your interviews went well!
Kim  so hows your newly purchased Porsche? Did he accept Mastercard? 
... Well, at least one of them didn't show up!d?
Mr. Yuk is green! Mr. Yuk is mean! 
 Nobody
Well, AEPi, at least you didnt tip over your buggy.
Good going, EMS. At least we didnt have any lightning.&oo
Please submit Vox Populi announcements. Deadline for entries is April 20. Announcements should 
be 20 words or less. Drop them off at The Tartan office in the Student Center or email ra37.
