GET BEHIND THE 
BIG ATHLETIC 
DRIVE
dhr (Jaran
BASKET BALL 
DANCEUNION 
FRIDAY NIGH1'
VOL. XV NO. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.JANUARY 12, 1921
TARTAN TOSSERS LOSE TO 
MOUNTAINEERS IN SPEEDY 
GAME BY SCORE OF 48-31
Plaid Five Take Lead at Start 
and Hold it Until End of 
First Half 21 to 17West 
Va.'s Defensive Play Feat
ure of the Game
LOSE GAME INSECOND PERIOD
The Plaid passers went down to de
feat at the hands of West Virginia last 
Saturdap night at: Morgantown, 4S to 
31, after outplaying the Mountaineers 
in the first half. Both teams .were 
keyed up for the contest, and played a 
fast game throughout, much to the de
light of the large crowd. West Vir
ginias strength on the defensive was 
the feature of the battle, and proved 
the undoing of the Tartan five. Time 
after time the Skibos would work the 
hall down under the Mountaineers 
basket only to lose it before a try 
could be made for a basket.
The Tech tossers started out with a 
rush and soon had a good lead on the 
home team which they were able to 
maintain to the end of the first half, 
21 to 17. Excellent floor work and 
guarding by Lynn and Nichols kept 
the West Virginia score down, wliile/ 
Dosey and the Plaid forwards w^re 
dropping the ball into the basket. The 
Morgantown quintet came back in the 
second half, though, and fairly rained 
the ball into the basket. They soon 
took the lead away from the Lairds 
and were never headed the rest of.the 
game.
Dosey was high man in the scoring 
column for Tech, caging the ball four 
times, with Gibson getting three goals. 
Captain Martin starred for West Vir
ginia with his sensational shooting 
from all angles and parts of the floor, 
topping the list with eight baskets to 
his credit. Lynn was in good form at 
shooting fouls, making nine out of 
twelve. The lineup:
Tech31. West Virginia43.
Hammann ..........F......................Martin
Gibson.......\.\.F........;..... G. Hill
Dosey.................C..................... Kiger
Lynn ...................G................ Hawkins
Nichols ...............G.....................Bowers
Field goalsW. Virginia, Martin 6, 
G. Hill 5, Kiger 4, Hawkins 2, Bower; 
Tech, Doseiy 4. Gibson 3. Hammann 2, 
Lynn 2, Nichols 1. FoulsLynn 9 out 
of 12, Dosey none out of 1, Nichols 
none out of 1; W. Va., Hawkins 4 out 
of 9, Martin none out of 3. Substitu
tionsTech, Pittman for Hammann; 
McPhee for Gibson; Good for Lynn. 
W. Va., P. Hill for Ivlger; Kiger for P. 
Hill; Flannegan for Bowers, Bartell 
for G. Hill; Parker for Bartelle.
NO MAN ADMITTED TO 
ARTS BALL WITHOUT GIRL
Simple Massive Decorations 
of Dark Blue and Gold to 
Form Effective Background 
for Brilliant Costumes of 
Dancers
THIRTY PATRONS INVITED
All Arts is busy preparing lor the 
annual ball to be held a wreek from 
Friday. The most work is on the 
decorations, although this year the 
costumes will also require much work. 
The style of decoration will be a com
bination of Scandinavian and Celtic. 
The long foyer will be hung with blue 
draperies, having fantastic designs in 
gold. A largfe canopy will hide the 
ceiling of the main entrance hall. 
This dark color scheme -will give a 
wonderful setting for the bright cos
tumes. An effective lighting scheme 
is being worked out by the drama de
partment. This will effect the gran
deur for which the affair is known.
The entertainment will consist of 
stunts by division talent. There will 
also be some novelty acts which have 
not yet been announced. Refreshments 
will be served at midnight in the 
sculpture room.
The committee decided to* invite 30 
people who are not alumni, but who 
have shown interest and aided in the 
development of the Art School. Most 
of these patrons will be from the 
Pittsburgh district; however, some are 
from other sections of the country.
This year no men from the division 
will be admitted without a girl. It is 
hoped that this will give most of the 
girls a chance to come.
Alumni are urged to get their dues 
to'the treasurer, Mr. Carl Reid, imme
diately to insure prompt attention.
MEMORY-OF MISS PARRY 
HONORED BY THISTLE
Departing from the usual custom of 
dedicating the Thistle to some officer 
or member of the Board of Trustees, 
the 1921 Thistle is to be dedicated in 
memoriam to the late Miss Frances 
Camp Parry, who made an enviable 
record for herself as head of the De
partment of English at Tech. Miss 
Parry was one of our most loved teach
ers, and it is fitting that she be the 
first of Techs faculty to receive this 
honor. /
The photographs this year are to be 
taken by Mr. L. R. Stoiie, -with a por
table studio in the Union. Ar
rangements have been made to 
have the fraternity pictures taken in
dividually, and then mounted  in a 
group picture. Those desiring to pur
chase pictures from Mr. Stone can do 
so at very reasonable rates.
The co-operation of the student body 
is asked in reporting promptly when 
due to be photographed, and those 
officers of organizations responsible 
for their write-ups, should see that 
their copy is turned in promptly when 
asked for, in order that the book can 
be delivered well in advance of the 
close of the school year.
The subscription campaign now run
ning will be concluded shortly, and 
those intended subscribers who have 
not yet subscribed should act imme
diately, or run the possible risk of not 
securing a copy, as copies are ordered 
only for those who have subscribed.
RIFLE CLUB TO COMPETE 
IN N.R.A, COLLEGIATE MATCH
Ten Men Keep Score Above 
95Meeting Jan. 12th 
Match With Penn 
State Scheduled
* Sterling. 111.R. S. Pittman, * 
father, of Pittman, who plays on *
J* CaVnegie Tech football team, saw 
I* a box car come through the local *
* yards west-bound with the follow*1* 
% ing caption: Tech 6W. & J. 0. ?
C0SM0-CLU6 MADE ACTIVE 
CHAPTER OF CORDA FRATRES
Dimancesco and Prins Go 
to Ann Harbor to Attend 
National Convention of 
SocietyTech Club In
itiated as Vice Presi
dential Chapter
OVERALLS AND HUBBARDS
TO BE COSTUME FOR FROLIC $50,000 GOAL SET
FOR BIG ATHLETIC 
DRIVE BY COUNCIL
Attendance Limited to Stu
dents and Alumni of Divis
ion of Industries Prelimin
ary Tickets Selling Fast
SPECIALTIES PROMISED
RETURN TO WORK
As one of the Home Town papers 
said, IStudents Abandon Frivolity; 
Return to Grind!" And, verily they 
knew whereof they spoke! All .the 
Gentle Maggie Murphsor nearly all 
of them, have returned, and are al
ready digging harder than they did 
last quarter. Its going to be a hard 
winter, but everybody is going to try 
to weather itand Incidentally have 
a mighty good time in spare mo
ments.
The Rifle Club is at present prepar
ing a team to compete in the coming 
nnual N. R. A. intercollegiate matches 
which are held the ten weeks follow
ing February 5.
These matches are held under the 
auspices of the N. R. A. for the pur
pose of determining the intercolle
giate championship of the United 
States.
Many good shots have been devel
oped from the candidates during the 
short timb the club has been on the 
range, and it is expected that a good 
team can be put on the range for these 
matches.
In addition, to these rgular N. R. A. 
matches, a number of special events 
with the universities and colleges have 
been booked for the season.- These 
special matches are to be conducted 
by telegraph.
On Wednesday, January 12, there 
will be a meeting of all members and 
prospective mepibers who are inter
ested in the club. There will be a 
short business session and afterwards 
a talk by Captain Wallace of the Win
chester Repeating Arms School of In
struction. Captain Wallace was an in
structor in the school of arms of the 
United States Army for five years, and 
will fcalk on aiming and firing and the 
nomenclature of the rifle. This talk 
will be very interesting and instruc
tive. There will probably be a repre
sentative of the Fort Pitt Rifle Club 
who will speak along similar lines.
All members should consult the list 
posted on the bulletin board for the 
date assigned for them to report on 
the range. Every man has a chance 
to develop his ability before the match
es and all are urged to report on the 
date assigned.
The team will be chosen by compar
ing scores of both prone and standing 
targets from time to time.
The 20 highest scores will be posted 
each week on the bulletin boards or 
in The Tartan.
The ten highest scores to date were 
made by the following men:
J. A. Pray.......................... 99
C. N. Harwood................. 98
GE TE BHIEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE ND
J. Foster ............................ 97
J. G. Byler ........................96
N. Thompson .................... 96
L. Newman ........................96
B. W. Lancaster............... 96
H. S. Torbert .................... 96
G. B. Wes! ........................ 96
Vice President James A. Pray of the 
above list and one of the founders of 
the Rifle Club has completed his 
course at the Institute and a new vice 
president will be installed next meet
ing.
While other cosmopolitans, who 
were not fortunate to go home dur
ing the holidays, were enjoying them
selves at a Cosmopolitan Christmas 
party, given by the Y. W. C. A. at the 
Hospitality House to the Tech and 
Pitt chapters, A. W. Prins and D. D. 
Dimancesco represented the Carnegie 
Tech chapter at the fourteenth annual 
convention of the Corda Fratres As
sociation at the University of Michi
gan, Ann Arbor, from December 27 to 
30.
Fifty-three delegates were present, 
representing 27 different chapters. 
The Carnegie Tech chapter, which had 
been an associate chapter for the last 
year, became an active chapter at the 
convention and was mentioned by the 
general secretary in his report as be
ing one of the chapters who had reg
ularly performed its duties towards 
the national association. Because of 
this fact it was elected the vice pres
idential chapter of the Third district.
A word of appreciation must be 
given to the University of Michigan. 
It spared no pains to make the dele
gates visit to Ann Arbor agreeable.
The cosmopolitan movement is 
spreading fast, not only in the United 
States, but also in China and Japan, 
where associate chapters are being 
formed. In Europe the associate has 
existed a long time.
To those that are not familiar with 
the national association the following 
information may be of some value:
I. History.
The first cosmopolitan club was or
ganized at the University of Wiscon
sin in 1905, the national association 
organized in 1907. It is affiliated with 
the Corda Fratres I. F. S., and had its 
representatives to the fourth Interna 
tional Convention at Cornell Univer
sity in 1913.
II. Activities.
Annual convention during the 
Christmas holidays.
Summer institute during summer 
vacations.
The publishing of the monthly mag
azine, an organ of communication,be
tween existing chapters.
Annual European delegation.
III. Ideals and Objectives.
The uniting of students of all na
tionalities In the American Universi
ties for fellowship and mutual under
standing, Its motto being Above all 
nations is humanity.
To inspire the public leaders of the 
world who are in training at Ameri
can universities.
To afford our guests fuom other 
countries contact with the best in 
American life.
Through mutual understanding to 
promote study and solution of inter-/ 
national problems.
IV. Present Program.
Establishment of central headquar
ters and traveling secretary.
The creation of exchange scholar
ships and fellowships with foreign 
universities.
The enlargement of the monthly 
magazine.
The Nasmyth Memorial Fund to 
make possible the forward movement.
Overalls and Mother I-Iubbards is 
the dress designated to be worn at the 
second annual frolic of the Laborers 
which is to be held in the new hall In 
the Langley Laboratory. The date 
ha's been set for the 28th of Janiftiry, 
and by the demand for the preliminary 
tickets a capacity attendance is ex
pected.
The committee appointed by the as
sembly has completed the greater part 
of the arrangements and promises of 
numerous novelties and specialties 
have leaked out.
The attendance to the affair will be 
limited to all day and night students of 
the Division of the Industries and 
members of the alumni. The rule that 
all Frolickers must appear in the 
costume designated by the committee 
will be strictly adhered to.
Members of the several clubs in the 
division are represented on the gen
eral committee, and the full support 
of these organizations has been 
pledged in making the dance one of 
the biggest social events conducted on 
the campus.
KNIGHTS OF THE CANS
MEET IN NEW TOWER ROOM
Lieutenant Walker Gives Tips 
and Offers Suggestions 
Other (Talks to Follow 
Join the Radio Club
Techs Radio Club started the win
ter quarter off with a grand slam. The 
newly remodeled Tower Room was 
the cene of much pop on Friday 
night, January 7, when the Knights 
of flbe Cans wore all gathered togeth
er for an old-time ham fest.
A business meeting was called to 
order at 7 p. m. and after discussing 
business for about an hour the big 
treat came. Lloutonant Walker of the 
R. O. T. C. gave the fellows several 
tips that were worth while and at the 
same time gave the Radio Club a big 
boost. The It. O. T. C. Is backing the 
club and doing all It can to interest 
the fellows through the Signal Corps 
work.
This Is only the first of a soiies of 
talks to be presented to the members 
during the coming weeks and any man 
who has been attacked by the radio 
bug, whether he has been bitten bad
ly or only slightly, should not fall to 
be at every meeting. Signs and no
tices will be posted in plonty of time 
for you to get ready.
CAMERA CLUB MEETS JAN. 13
New Photographic Processes 
Will Prove Interesting
Appeal To Be Made To Alumni and General PublicStu
dent Co-operation, Not Financial. PlannedPass to 
Athletic Events To Be Given Donors
TWO WEEKS CAMPAIGNING, FEBRUARY, 14 TO 26
VARSITY i LASS BENEFIT 
DANCE IN ARTS FOYER
Fifty thousand dollars is the goal set for the amount of tlio Athletic 
Drive by the Athletic Council, although it is hoped (hat the amount obtained 
will greatly exceed this. .Eighteen thousand graduates and former students
are to be asked to contribute. Plans are well under way now and active
campaigning will take place in the last two weeks of February.
The drive which will be handled in the most logical and systematic
manner possible will be conducted among the Alumni of the Institution and
a novel feature of the campaign will be the appeal to the general public. Just
how far the last ijnentioned portion 
of the drive will extend is uncertain 
at the present time but details will
be worked out very soon. It is the
plan to malto intensive use of the 
j student co-operation which has ali ways been present in athletic affairs 
I in 'furthering the interests of the 
drive, although no appeal will be 
made whatever for financial assist
ance from the students because of 
the fact that they have already done 
as such as can be expected of them. 
The students however, will have the 
opportunity of extending the appeal 
through the various class and fratern
ity organizations reaching out 
through them to tho Alumni who 
have gone before.
The various Alumni organizations 
will take an active part. In the work, 
oach one of the Clans representing 
a district and each one being sub
divided into sub-districts In order to 
malto tho most thorough possible 
canvass of nil previous Tech men 
and women.
In order that the students of t ho other 
divisions may have an opportunity to 
enjoy tho decorations which will be 
used this year in decorating the foyer 
of the division of arts for the annual 
ball of that division, it. has been de
cided to Invite everyone to Tech to a 
dance to bo hold in Uio arts, foyer at 
nine oclock on tho evening of Jan
uary 22. The hangings used for the 
Land of Enchantments will formv'a 
beautiful background for modern cos
tumes as well as for tho legendary 
ones which will be worn on tho night 
of the ball.
Tho procoods of the dance will be. 
givon ,to the Varsity Clan. Light re
freshments will be florvod, and tho 
best music in the city has boon se
cured for both nights. Tickets for tho 
dance on tho 22nd will hTPon sale in 
tho arts division foyer at the price of 
two dollars. They will also be placod 
In the hands of sub*00mm111eoB in in
dustries, sclonco and Margaret Morri
son divisions.
NIGHT INDUSTRIES
TO SMOKE
Dark Mystery to be Held Jan. 
29only 25 Cents Admission
SENIOR ARCHITECTS MAKE 
HIGH RATING IN BEAUX ARTS
Dierks andLashmit givenTwo 
of Three First Medals Given 
Also Three of Six 
Second Medals
The Carnegie Camera Club will hold 
a meeting Thursday, January 13, 1921, 
at 7:00 p. m., in the Darkroom, Indus
tries building. The program will con
sist of a discussion and demonstration 
of many interesting and useful photo
graphic processes. If there is any-' 
thing about which you would like to 
find out, bring it up in the meeting; 
or if you know of a process which 
would be of use to others you are in
vited to demonstrate it. The en
trance to the Darkroom is through the 
Balance Room, room 306.
At the last meeting there was a 
good attendance of old members and 
new men. The club is an amateur 
club, and therefore every man who 
works in any branch of photography 
should come out. This includes 
plebes as well as upper classmen. 
There should be no hindrance for any
body to attend, since the earlier hour 
will give opportunity to do ones 
work after the meeting adjourns.
The Senior architects carried off 
honors in the last judgment, held Jan
uary 4, at the Beaux Arts Institute of 
Design, New York. Many schools 
were represented, thus making the 
competition very close. Dierks and 
Lashmit were given two of the three 
first medals which were awarded. 
Rockwell, Pohlmeyer and Simpson won 
three of the six second medals, and 
the remainder received mention. Prof. 
Hornbostel criticized the problem. A 
Staircase in a City Hall.
The archaeology project, A Pom
peian Courtyard, was completed by 
three men, all receiving mention.
A City Market and A Window 
With a Balcony, the Junior and Soph
omore problems, respectively, are due 
Saturday and will be judged the 25th. 
Many solutions are being developed 
and good results may be expected.
On Saturday, January 29, tho Night 
School students of tho Division of In
dustries will give a smolcer In thy 
gymnasium, to onablo tho students to 
got acquainted with each other.
Bosldes tho regular speakers then! 
will bo an exhibition by some ama
teur boxers of local fame. Some fast 
bouts are promised which are sure to 
keep you on your loos and which It 
will bo worth while to soo.
What is tho DARK MYSTERY? If 
you. want to find out, come to Night 
Industrios smokor and behold the most 
fascinating, awe-inspiring, blood-curd
ling stunt which has over boon pulled 
off on the campus. This will take 
place immediately after the boxing 
matches/
Tickets at 25 cents each will bo on 
sale on tho campus shortly. Dont, 
forget the date, the DARK MYSTERY 
and your two-hits.
MYSTERIOUS NIGHT
A consistent materialist maintains 
that the only and ultimate cause of 
anything is Chance.  William Hana 
Thompson.
Is Yale our first opponent in base
ball? If so, we lose regardless of 
how good we are.
Watch the Pittsburgh Clan and 
their Big Athletic Drivetheyre play
ing for keeps this time.
'TIs better to have loved and lost 
Than marry and be bossed.
Ex.
Ooothose Mysterious Nights! The 
last Bohemian affair on December 10 
will be remembered as the best fling 
of the term by those who were lucky 
enough to have a chance to crawl into 
the den of the artists. Tho hall of mysery was entered by squirming through 
a dark, narrow passageway. It was 
impossible to tell what was beyond. 
But when you got there! A skeleton 
greeted you from his high throne and 
indicated that he died from the use of 
the jug.
The smocks and tarns were better 
than evera regular second ball. A 
bunch of wild-eyed architects came as 
hulu-hulu men, all decked in paper 
skirts, and helped to make a racket. 
Everyone caught the spirit of the 
houra gay, untrameled spirit.
The lights werea la Poes Mask 
of the Red Death and the walls were 
decorated with the most nfeaningless 
exhibit of the year. Bill posters of 
circuses containing everything from 
maypole dancing around an elephant 
to pigs and other animals appeared in 
strange and odd positions around the 
room. One poster gave a course of 
Instructions in five lessons on the 
gentle art. of osculation.
As for entertainment, wellthere 
was plenty of that. Looking at the 
gay Bohomes was quite satisfactory, 
and of course there was dancing. Early 
In the evening there was a confetti 
dance which helped the festive spirit. 
Later, Mr. Simboli led a "follow the 
leader chase through tho loge, going
Another novel* feature of tho 
drive which Is missing In most cam
paigns of this typo >1 tho anticipa
tion of returning to oach donor 
something concrutn In return for his 
subscription In this ease a pass for 
at least, a portion of tho athletic 
events, and In all probability, this 
pass to provide for non oral admis
sion to all of tho hOinio events of tho 
yoar.
Tho history of tho new At.hlot.Io 
Council of Garnoglo although short, 
has bo'n one of action. Tho review 
of tho activities of Tech athletics 
will nndlly Indicator this statement, 
a continuance of which Is promised 
by t.ho d' finite action on tho part, 
of the Council at Its last regular 
mooting, hold Friday, January 7, at 
which time U was definitely decided 
to hold! a. financial drive for funds. 
Tho whole proposition or carrying 
forward tho at.hl<vtlo work has been 
very up-hill laslc from tho financial 
viewpoint, a condition which is, to 
quito an extent, dim to lack oC co*1 
operation from tho bigger propor
tion of our Alumni. Tho support, giv
en by tho students has been every
thing and in fact In many cases 
more than could be expected. A hot
ter class of athlotes Is attending 
school and taking part in tho activi
ties than ever bof'oro. Less trouble 
Is being exporlonoed from, tho view
point of scholastic standing and all 
In all the past year has boon by far 
the most successful year In the his
tory of athletics of Carnegie Tech. 
With this background, it is indeed 
unfortunate that tho proper financial 
support is lacking and because of 
this fact the definite decision boforo 
mentioned to put on a financial drive 
is very much in keeping with tho de
sire to continue on the upward path 
In an athletic way. Our prospects 
for the coming year are brighter 
than they ever have been In th-epast 
because of the scholastic excellence 
of the men on the squad, which is 
another means of expressing the idea 
of where heretofore so many men fell 
down in scholastic standing that next 
year they will be back again ready 
to make use aZ the experience pre
viously gained in bringing athletic 
glory to CarnegieTech.
through all sorts of glratlons. On tho 
return he brought the crowd past ta
bles on which individual plates of food 
were placed. The eats were taken 
Into the main room and everyone sat 
on the floor while the stunts came off. 
Charles Kurtz and Dorothy Heller, 
both Freshmen, gave an Oriental 
dance. Mr. Ilubbel of the painting 
school then painted a romarkablo por
trait in three minutes by the simple 
expedient of washing whiting from a 
finished picture. After the stunts the 
dancing resumed and continued until 
12 oclock.
The committee In charge consisted 
of John Hallam, entertainment; Char
lotte Shuman, decorations; Milan I*etrovlts and Mary Francis Murdock, 
refreshments; Harry Moosor, tickets, 
and Hubert Watterson, secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1921
hr artcin
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class mattar.
Editor-m-Chlef............................................................................ Lawrence Paquln
Business Manager...............................................................................IJOn ASillers
Schenlcy 0211
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
William D. Iiall 
Aaolotant Managing Editor 
Fred L. Knowles 
Athlctic Editor 
Stewart P. Smith 
Ncwo Editor 
Donald H. Harding
Asslatant Ncwo Editor 
Kenneth Arnold 
Divioional Assistants
M. M. D.............. ...........Helen Lewis
Arts...........................V. II. Htromqulst
Arts...........................Charlotte Shuman
Science............................... I. Sissman
Industries.........................13. It. Plover
Night Editor
Edward A. Brand
Cartoonist.....................M. 0. Winslow
Photographer..................R. H. Guyton
BU8INES8 STAFF 
Circulation Manager 
William H. Obenour 
Advertising Manager 
William R. Mills 
Assistants on Business Staff 
D. Sonnemann ' Walter Heller
Ackerman
Assistant Managers of same ................................. 3
Professional and Course Societies.
President ..................................................-............. 6
Other Officers........................................................... 2
Committee Members .............................................. 1
Class and Division Committees.
Important Committees, such as Junior Prom,
Arts Ball, etc., Chairman ............................... 4
Members .................................................................. 3
Other Committees ................................................... 1
We think that the holding of twelve points in this scale by any 
one man would lax his ability to give his best to those activities and 
to his scholastic work to as Yeat an. extent as is advisable, and this 
would give other men a chance without too greatly narrowing the 
possible field of work for particularly ambitious students.
Whether participation in athletics on the teams in the various 
sports should also be assigned ratings is a question, but this is not 
so important from a viewpoint of general welfare.
If you are in favor of a point system of this general nature, or if 
you have some radical improvements to suggest, let us hear from 
you. Talk the plan over with your friends, and lets get some ex 
pression of the general sentiment toward, an innovation of this kind 
on. the campus. The idea is well worth while, and we want to see 
it pushed to some definite conclusion before another five years 
elapses.
4
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
LIMITING ACTIVITIES
Tho question of tho number of activities A man can be engaged 
in and still keep up his scholastic work has often been discussed both 
here and at other colleges. It, is true that at almost all schools some 
few men take part in too many activities for their own good. They 
cannot give as much time or attention as they should cither to studies 
or activities.
At Tech, a few men arc holding a largo proportion of all the 
school, publication, club and committee offices. The number of really 
active men is so limited in fact, that one of two conclusions must in
evitably be drawn from this condition: (lj that we prefer to have 
a few leaders and to turn over I,he direction of everything to them, 
or (2) that there arc only about a dozen men in each school who arc 
lit and competent to administer any but the simplest and least' im
portant duties.
This matter was discussed at some length in The Bagpipe way 
back in 1916, nearly live years ago, but nothing clune of the matter, 
and wo think it still sufficiently live and important to call it to the 
attention of the student body again. Parts of I he editorial in the 
above-mentioned.publication are used below:
Concentration of offices among a few men is an evil for two 
reasons. On the one hand it loads down the selected few with so 
much work that either their school duties or some of their activity 
functions are ultimately slighted. Taken in moderation, the duties 
of many of the positions in the various branches of our non-seholastic 
life are extremely valuable oxpirenee iu human relationships. In 
excess, they distract men from the courses of instruction so that most 
of the good things Ihese men. originally came to school for arc neg
lected, and the1 result, if not a sei-ies of dunks, is at best a patchwork 
and a poor foundation for a later professional career.
Oil the other Imnil, it denies to a large number of men the op 
portunity to develop character by assuming responsibilities among 
their follows. II concentrates both the honors and the experience of 
office-holding and leaves the average man less capable and valuable 
to tho community at and after graduation.
A large number of schools have realized the nature of this 
problem and luive endeavored to solve 1 iu various ways, lit Mass
achusetts Institute id Technology, generally known as a pretty busy 
place, Iho matter came up for settlement: some toil or more years ago. 
After studying the situation carefully, a committee recommended 
that all positions in activities should In' assigned rating in points, 
and that no man should be permitted In hold positions aggregating 
more than ten points. A tentative list was drawn up and widely 
discussed, and with some mnililleaiions the plan was adopted and 
gradually applied. II was worked in slowly enough so as not to up
set violently l.ho positions dependent upon men holding excess points 
at the lime il, wont into ell'eel., and within a year it was generally 
considered to be highly successful.
A pleu nf |,he same nature is and has been for some years, in 
ell'eel, rigid here, in lie1 Margaret Morrison Division, and il seems to 
work lo everyone s salislacl.iou. In l.ho other Divisions, however, 
no limitation Ims apparently been placed on the number or kind of 
jobs one man may hold in open student activities. Ierhaps if can
not be called 11 crying evil in our ease. Things are done, and done 
'veil. Nevertheless, we know id' good, capable men who are ambi
tious enough Iu accept the honors ollored them who do have to
neglect ..... set, of duties to attend to others. We know that lliese
men are not, gelling all l.liey should out of the curriculum, and we 
or some of us believe the Tech community as a whole and tho men 
themselves would lie belter oil' if more of us shared the jobs with the 
favored few.
A point system at Tech would accomplish the desired distribu
tion ot offices us thoroughly and with as little friction as any we 
can think of. The following tentative scale pf points which might be 
allotted is quoted almost wholly from the old issue of the Bagpipe, 
but it is just as applicable now as when it was tirst compiled: 
General Activities.
.Division President ................................................... 7
Division Vice President ........................................ 3
Division Secretary ................................................. 4
Division Treasurer................................................. ;j
Student Activities President.................................. S
Other Officers ................................................. G
Members ......................................................... 4
Student Senate, all schools.................. 3
Classes
Senior President.................................................... (j
Junior President ...............................................
Plebe or Sophomore President.............................. 4
Other Officers, all classes...................... 2
Publications.
Thistle Editor-iii-Ckief ..........................................'S
Thistle Business Manager ...................................... S
Thistle Art Editor .......................................... 7
Thistle Sales Manager ........................................ 7
Thistle, other officers.............................................. y
Thistle Staff Members .......................................... 5
Tartan Edi.tor-in-Ohiof ........................................... S
Tartan Business Manager................................... 8
Tartan .Managing Editor ....................................... 8
Tartan News Editor ......................................... 7
Tartan, other stall1 positions ................................ 1;
Tartan Reporters ............................................ 3
1. T. Journal Editor-iu-Chicf ....................... S
(.'. I. T, Journal Business Manager......................... 8
1'. I. T. Journal, other stall' positions ................. (>
Bagpipe Editor-in-Chief .................................. 7
Bagpipe, other stall' positions . ....' r>Musical Clubs.
President .............................................. g
Manager ............................................
Executive Committee ............................................ 5
Members ........................................... .......... !>
Athletics.
Managers of Football, Backet Ball. Baseball andTrack Teams................................................. 7
Assistant Managers of same ................... 4
Managers of Tennis and Hoekey.ZZl^!ZZZ.*.* 5
Happenings on the Campus
R. O. T. C.-ERS RECEIVE $53 APIECE
Members of./dm Senior and Junior 
classes who are enrolled in the R.. O. 
T. C. received an agreeable surprise 
last week. A sizeable check was re
ceived in the military department, and 
twenty-four members of the corps 
came in on the divvy '"or over $50 
apiece, which was to apply on their
allowance for commutations and ra
tions, and this was just for the 
autumn quarter, too. This is in addi
tion to the clothing and shoe allow
ance which they draw from the Mil-' 
itary Department here.
It is expected that this long-prom
ised and long looked for cash will 
stimulate interest in that direction 
and sustain the support already shown 
by the sophomores and freshmen.
the eligibility of players.
(3) Arrange a championship series 
of three games.
THE CAMPUS
Heretofore the above heading has almost invariably served to 
introduce a tirade concerning the deplorable state of our campus, and 
an exhortation to clean up. Now that we think the administration 
is doing a great deal to improve the appearance of Techs surround
ings, we arc glad to use it to head a sincere article of appreciation 
of the changes that are being made.
For one thing, the debris which has surrounded the new link has 
at last been removed, and the little construction shanty which stood, 
as the Graduate Manager remarked when his office was put in that 
building this fall, right in the center of things, has also disap
peared. The lawns have been leveled in places, and the terraces are 
being repaired. The road has been at least repaired, and if jou 
want to look around you it is easy to see any number of little im
provements.
Now that the school is doing all it can to beautify the campus 
as we have been at the, administration to do whenever we had the 
chance, or ran out of material for editorials, since The Tartan began, 
it is only right that we should recognize their action. It is up to the 
entire student body to recognize it by doing as much as it can to help 
keep the campus in as good condition as possible. It seems almost a 
waste of time to reiterate the admonition, Help to make the campus 
beautiful,  but it seems to be one that is needed. No matter how 
elated you are, it isnt -a good thing to disfigure our walks and 
buildings with numerals and meaningless signs. It is very little 
farther fop you to go round by the walk instead of tramping over 
the grass. Think of these tilings and keep the grounds and buildings 
in a condition of which we can be proud.
RULES GOVERNING INTER-FRA-! 
TERNITY DORMITORY BASKET 
BALL 
General Rules
(1) Every team represented in the 
Inter-fraternity Dormitory Basket Ball 
Leagues shall post ten dollars, paya
ble to the Secretary-Treasurer as an 
entrance fee, and will forfeit this fee 
on failure to play two or more sched
uled games.
(a) Teams playing the sched
uled number of games or having 
only one1 fortfeiture listed against 
them shall receive at the close of 
the season their $10.00 entrance fee 
minus such an amount which shall 
be pro-rata to take care of expenses 
incurred by the ofilcers or the com
mittee in performing their duties.
(b) Teams having two or more 
non-appearances or forfeitures listed 
against them forfeit their entrance 
fee and this fee shall be placed in 
trust to take care of running expen
ses, buying trophies, etc.
(2) The tntrance fee must be post
ed with the Secretary-Treasurer before 
Christmas vacation.
(3) Men participating in Inter-fra
ternity Dormitory athletics must not 
be on the Varsity or Freshman squads 
at the time of the first scheduled 
game.
(4) Men,, must be registered day
PLEASE SIGN YOUR NAME
Several articles have been received for publication in The 
Tartan during the last week, with no name signed. We must again 
impress upon, those who wish to contribute to the paper the fact that 
no contribution which is unsigned can appear in these pages. Names 
will, of course, be withheld, but all articles must be signed.
THE CHANGE IN PAPER
The Tartan circulation this year is over three times that of any 
previous year. This involves the use of such a large quantity of 
paper stock that the sky-high.price of finished paper has become 
prohibitive. We feel that the use of newsprint will be acceptable 
In all, as it, allows of our giving better service in the way of distri
bution. We want every student and Alumnus to get his copy of The 
Tartnii.
If two postal telegraph operators 
were married in San Francisco would 
that be a western union?
If a. girl was,kissed in a rowboat 
would you call that a fishing smack?
If Dill, the Bailor, won second prize 
in a shooting contest, what would be 
tho target?
Tho prince of boobs has one pleasnot thought aniyway. They named 
Marblehead, Mass.,-after him.
HE WAS ECONOMICAL
A Scotchman was leaving on a fort
nights business trip and called back 
as he left home: Good-bye, all, and,
Kathleen; dinna forget to-mak lietle 
Donald tak* his glasses off when hes 
na looking at nothing.'
BREVITY THE SOUL OF WIT
The landlady of a well known Cana
dian hoarding houso always mado a. 
point of asking departing guests to 
write something in her visitor's hook. 
Sho was very proud of the people 
whoso names WOI'G In the volume and 
the nice things they had said.
"Theres one tiling that I cant un
derstand, sho said, "and that is what 
an American gentleman put In the 
book after stopping here, people al
ways smile when they seo it.
What was it? queried tho interest
ed boarder.
"Just three words, Quoth the rav
en. 
BEFORE
There are meters of accents 
And meters of tone;
But the best of all metejs 
Is to meet her.alone.
After
There are letters of accent 
And letters of tone,
But tlit best of all letters 
Is to let her alone.
LOVE AWAKENED
She met me at the great hall door,
And welcomed me in tender tones, 
In vain IJd sought her smile before. .
Her dad was worth a million bones! 
And she, the girl Id loved for sad, 
Long months, nor dared to hope at 
all,
She smiled and said that she was glad 
That I had come to pay a call.
She sang for me; the lights were low 
And soft; wo sat; I held her hand; . 
And told her slit1 was sweet, and oh. 
To love and cherish and command. 
She blushed and smiled at me again;
Tho very heart within mo sang;
She raised her lips to mine.. ...
And then 
And then the alarm clock rang!
If a hobo fell into the Chicago river 
and crawls out, would you say ho left 
the banquet?
If there are no murders in your 
family wliat. does jvour kindred?
Do you think King George is straight 
and upright just beeause they made a 
1 ruler of him?
DORMITORY BASKET BALL
CONSTITUTION
This organization shall be known as | 
the Inter-Fraternity Dormitory Basket 
Ball Leaguethe officers shall consist 
of the President and the SecretaryTreasurer and shall be elected by the 
menbers of the league the Thursday 
following the close of the basket ball 
season.
A majority of the votes cast shall be 
required to elect the officers.
(A)Duties of the President
(1) He shall preside over all meet
ings.
(2) -He shall call a meeting the first 
week in December to formulate plans 
for the season.
(3) He shall appoint a committee 
of three men to be known as the sched
ule committee.
(B) Duties of the Secretary-Treas
urer
(1) Collect ?10.00 from each team 
known as entrance feeand said 
fee to be placed in trust with the 
Graduate Manager of Carnegie Tech.'
(2) Publish in The Tartan the re
sults of tho games played the previous 
week and tho schedule of the follow
ing week.
(8) Keep a permanent record or 
the scores.
(1) Notify each team of the annual 
meeting for the election of officers.
(5) Take minutes of all meetings 
and keep those in a permanent file.
(C) Duties of the Committee
(1) The committee shall draft the 
schedule.
(a)) Tho members of each league
will be drawn by lot.
(2) This committee shall pass on
^ First Church of Christ, 
Scientist 
CLYDE STREET
Services Sunday11 a.
m. and 8 p. in. 
Wednesday Testimony 
Meeting 8 p. in. 
Sunday School 11 a. ni.
ALL ARE CORDIALLY 
INVITED TO ATTEND
students of C. I. T.
(5) Only active and pledge mem
bers of the various organizations are 
eligible to play.
(7) Professional players will not. 
be allowed to play in the Inter-fratern
ity Dormitory games.
(a) A professional player is de
fined as one who plays amateur or 
semi-professional or professional 
games for money.
Special Rules
(1) A game may be postponed by 
Imutuail agreement'proV,iding this agree
ment is handed in to the committee 
and passed on favorably.
(a) This means that the game 
must be played within one week of 
the scheduled date.
(2) Failure to play the game with
in the one week limit shall constitute 
a forfeiture.
(3) All disputes shall be settled at 
a. general meeting at which a quorum 
is present.
(a) A quorum shall consist or 
representatives of two-thirds of the 
organizations represented in the 
leagues.
(4) All insurance men are ineligi
ble to play.
(5) One player cannot represent, 
more tjian one team.
(6) Failure to appear in uniformready to play within ten minutes after 
the scheduled time shall constitute a 
forfeiture.
(7) Games shall be played under 
the following regulations:
(a) There shall be four seven 
and one-half minute quarters, with 
an interval of one minute between 
the first and second quarter, and one 
minute between the third and fourth 
quarter with an interval of ten min
utes between halves.
St. Pauls Cathedral
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: (5:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & Holy Days. 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle Aisle, for Tech 
Students.
WEVE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS
P. LUDEBUEHL & S&N
SHOES AND HOSIERY
1 PENN. AND FRANKSTOWN 
MENS BROGUES 
$12.00 to $16.00
We are showing a fine lot of 
new Fall and Winter Brogues at 
prices that are going to make 
them very popular, in , 
CORDOVAN, BOARDED CALF 
AND SCOTCH GRAIN
Oxfords and Boots 
STETSONS 
Oxfords and Boots 
$13.00 to $16.00
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD AND DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M. 
Morning Worship11 A. M.
Social Hour and Luncheon for Stu dents. 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all students.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
BellefieId and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
"Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues.
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and.8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
TRNSITS AND LEVELS !
L SUPPLIES FOR 
DRAFTING ROOM!
Engineersnquipment. Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papersand 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
ARE YOU GOING
TO THE
BIG WINTERj P ARTY 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 13
The Student Council and Vagabond 
Club invite you to an evening of happy good 
fellowship with friends, new and old, at 
Oakland M. E. Church 3904 Forbes St.
C. M. STAUFT
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE. PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS

---------------------------------------------------

ply course, Tech being' defeated by 
a 57*18 scv(f. C. l. Miller made a 
wonderful run, finishing thirtf, and has 
the distinction of being the only mim 
during 1920 cross country season to 
break Lafayettes record of perfect 
scoring in every-meet. In the Middle 
States Intercollegiate meet severa) 
weeks later, in which Tech could not. 
enter because of its large undergradu
ate body, Lafayette finished with a 
perfect, score also.
Tbs completed the cross country 
season. The six men who won their 
letter tor cross country (having com
peted in at least two intercollegiate 
meets) are: Captan-Hlect C. D. Mil
ler. J. M. Gavett, T. M. McDonald, C. 
J. Code, K. B. Foster and Manager W. 
A. McGill.
This paragraph presented at the 
Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Ar
cade, will entitle any Carnegie Tech 
student to a Free mechanical pencil 
of Sharp Point style, with a purchase 
amounting to $2.50 or more.
Scatter sunshine by sending Birth
day and other greeting cards to your 
relatives and friends. A wonderful 
assortment of such cards can be found
By STEWART P. SMITH
HOCKEY GAME SCHEDULED WITH PENN
Another hockey game has been scheduled by Graduate Manager Haaren 
for January 27 at Duquesne Garden, when the University of Pennsylvania 
puck chasers will come here for a game with the Tech seven. He is endeav
oring to arrange for a second game to be played on the 20th, but so far has 
been unable to fix the contest definitely. Penn has a very strong team this 
year, which has been built up around several veterans from last years squad 
and is expected to make a strong bid for the Eastern Intercollegiate cham
pionship. Dr. George W. Orten, the Penn hockey mentor, is president of 
the Intercollegiate Hockey League, and one of the greatest coaches of the 
ice game in the country.The Plaid hockeyists should be in top form by the date of the contest, 
and are progressing rapidly under the careful tutelage of Major Gordon. 
There is a lot of good material out for the team and with experience they 
will develop into a first-class organization. Captain Jewell is playing a great 
game at center and leading his men in every angle of the sport. There was 
a large amount of interest displayed in the first contests of the season with 
Yale and although both games were lost Tech showed flashes of real form 
that augur well for a strong aggregation in the future. A hockey team, like 
teams in other sports, cannot be built in one year and if a strong founda
tion is laid this season for the future Tech will be Satisfied.
SINGERS
JENKINS ARCADE
Looking back over half 
a century of banking, 
we like to believe that 
we have keptpace with 
the growth of our cus
tomersand that their 
growth and ours was 
due in some measure 
to the association.
ONE 
VWD OF
earner
THAT 
WUASS\ST 
YOU 
Coach Moses of the swimming team is very doubtful if anything can be 
done toward putting out a team this year. Several practices have been 
called and the material at hand is very meagre and not of a class which he 
thinks can be developed to furnish real competition to other schools in this 
district. Difficulty has also been encountered in obtaining a suitable place 
to swim. The Falk Memorial is the only pool available at the present time 
and that can be used by the Tech men only on Tuesday and Thursday nights. 
This gives only very little opportunity for practice, where a lot of it is 
needed and has proven to be a big handicap. It would probably be much 
better to drop swimming as an intercollegiate sport for this year, and run 
intramural contests in swimming in its place. This is one of the best 
methods of stirring up interest in any particular branch of athletics and 
should bring out all the material in school. One or two meets could be ar
ranged for a little later in the year.-----------4-----------
BASKET BALL TRIP
The basket ball game scheduled for next Monday night with W. & J. 
has been postponed until Tuesday to allow the finishing touches to be given 
to the gym. Everything will be ready then, and the Tech basket ball fans 
will be able to have their first glimpse of this years five. The Presidents 
are bringing a strong team up from Washington which will be hard for the 
Tartans to beat.Next Thursday the squad will leave for a three-game series with schools 
in the East, playing Delaware, Georgetown and Gettysburg on successive 
nights. This will be the first real test of the team and Coach Iddings is 
bending every effort to have his men in the best of' shape for the trip. That 
they will have strong opposition at Delaware is attested by last years 
record of the Newark school, which won 13 and lost two games, holding 
Pennsylvania, last years champions, to a score of 27-21. Reports from New
ark indicate that this season's five is stronger than last years. Just what 
kind of opposition will be encountered in the other two games is unknown, 
but Georgetown has a high standing in athletics and can usually be counted 
on for a good team. The Plaid basket bailers will return Sunday and spend 
next week in preparation for games with Marietta and West. Virginia Wes
leyan.
A man may have a lot of 
mighty human thoughts tucked 
away In his cranium, but the 
passing throng gives him credit 
only for what It sees.
A well intentloned man who 
is also, well dressed has a dou
ble-barrelled argument that 
should win for him his proper 
sphere.
This is a store where proper 
clothes are sold at human-interest prices.
That statements worth inves
tigating.
ysmiMm
Aids to 2ood looks, sooad teetfu 
eaier appetite and heaftto dUzesttoo 
are only 5c a package.
Sea,e<1
RiahiATHLETIC TICKETS
Athletic tickets for basket ball, baseball, track and tennis events 
for the balance of the collegiate year, 1920-21 will be given out at the 
office of the Graduate Manager of Athletics, No. 139 Industries Build
ing, upon presentation of the second quarter registration cards of the 
Day Students or the original registration cards of the Night Students. 
For the benefit of Night Students, the office will be open Wednesday 
and Thursday evenings, January 12th and 13th. For those unable to 
call at the office to receive tickets, the same will be sent by mail 
upon receipt of registration card and addressed stamped envelope.
FRANK H. HAAREN, 
Graduate Manager of Athletics.
The \jj
Flavor
LASTS
THE TURKISH ~ CIGARETTE
FINEST WORK
Opposite Library
Prospects for Good Team 
Bright-Men are Training 
Hard for Future Meets
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable prices 
3719 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
I JACQUES DANCING jjj 
| ACADEMY j
| Craig and Forbes I
!iIQUiliniHilllllliD!lQIl!i|UIIUUUIlliIilUilllllQIIQIIiniUBlQiDllinni!nililiUiIUniIQIQll]^
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best Laun
dry Agency
i!niii!!IIIIl!IIIIIII!!!lllli!!ilKll!lll!lllIlllUllllll!lH!UII!l!IU!!lUini[i:!!!l!U!l!lIllillill!lillin
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the large 
number of her cubs.
How many cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time? she asked the LIONESS.
Only ONE, replied the Lionessbut is a 
LION.
! Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System-j Capital - - - $200,000.00
j Surplus and Undivided ,
Profits - - - $300,000.00
! Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
j Safe Deposit Boxes for 
Rent
MURADS would be lower priced if we left out 
all or part of the 100% Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and beit varieties grownor if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt beMURADStheydonly be 
Foxes!
Judge for yourself!
Special attention is called Vy 1 MrfmofIholMusiQi
to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes
Basket Ball Headquarters, C. I. 
T.: On Friday evening the first
of a series of five dances will be 
held for the benefit of the team.tlnllubrld
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12, 1921______ _____________________________________________________________________THE TARTAN____________________________________________________________* _____________ PAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12. 1921
HAVE YOU HEARD ABOUT THE DRIVE?
STUDENT VESPERS _ . ^
All students will be greatly interest
ed to learn that tin:-. Student Vespers 
Council has succeeded In getting Dr. 
Charles W. Gllkle of tin* Hyde Park 
Baptist, church ol' Chicago for fcomor* 
row afternoon, .January LCR sub
ject will bo ""College Atmosphere." 
Dr, Gllkle 1R very well liked, and es
pecially popular with students, All 
are cordially Invited to liear him to
morrow afternoon at 4:45, at the FlrBt 
Baptist church, Bayard and Bellelleld 
streets:
Last Thursday Dr. John' Ray Ewers 
gave a Bplendid talk on "The Secret 
of the Success of Lloyd George,'' and 
pointed out many fealure6 of tlio prc
mlerB success which were applicable 
to college life.
WifeHow dare you come in VHCR 
time of night?
HubbyJCvery othor place closed, 
in dear.
The next time you Rdd a guy swip
ing attractive posters from the bulle
tin boards, Bwipe him on the ankle or 
hf! may be Bwlping pocketbooks next.
We have architecture, drama, sculp
ture, painting and muBic; why not lit
erature, at Tech?
Drag out your dishes at the bean
ery!
Game Room Re-Opened
The Oakland (.'ominimily House announces 
that its game room is now open to students ior 
Cliess, (Jhee.kers and Pool dames. Tournament 
to be organized at ouee. No charge.
3904 Forbes Street
LEF'AX Bu or tum I *a m 
tj" Pi s-n;C3 27 
ria 
A. 
/'A M** 'vVfr*
o-l '
 '
I 4915 Forbes Street
iiaiiaaBiaaiiaiHa
supplies sold by
A. J. HYND, Jr. Mech.
Locker 2365
Science Bldg
0pp. Plebe Locker 
Room 
Phone: Schenley 9211
'
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
CLAN NEWS
NEW YORK CLANPITTSBURGH CLAN
A. very tasty table dhote dinner 
was-recently served at Guffantis to 
New York; Clan members between 
the'courses of which all the old business 
was disposed of. After the dinner an 
election of officers took place in which 
the following -were 'selected:
PresidentMr. M. L. Patterson, Sc. 
teloc., 'IB, Sperry Gyroscope Company, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Secretary-Treasurer- Mr. J. A. Cam
eron, Sc, Coml Elec., 15, Mqcli. Eng. 
Dept, Room 5629 Grand Central Ter
minal, New York.
Executive BoardMr. Arch H. Cow
an, Sc. Coml Mecli., 16; Mr. EUgene 
Dowling, Sc. Mech., 'Oil; Mr. G. L. 
Burgess, Sc. Metal, '10.
The Tocli Index, New York Clan 
Booklet, will soon be In the bands ot 
the printers. This business directory 
Is to serve as a greater incentive for 
better and bigger business between 
the members of the clan who handle al
lied commodities. When we get it 
printed the other clans will be fur
nished with several copies. Any mem
ber of any clan can communicate with 
any member of! the New York Clan 
with reference to most any business. 
Through this little book Tech can 
market their goods through  Tech 
men. This is a capital idea and great 
results are expected from it.* * *
  The Youngstown Clan has reorgan
ized and promises to have a very suc
cessful year with Frank L. Rownd as 
president and C. B. Mike Kline as 
secretary.* * *
Mr. Ritchie Lawrie has been elected 
president of the Harrisburg 'Clan to 
succeed F. J. Hartman.* * *
CLAN MEMBERS
FRANK BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENOE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY I IGHTH STHEEf, NEW YORK 
UOOTS, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
.Bldg. Corner
Washington St.
ST. LOUIS 
Arcade Building
NEW HAVEN
Hotel Talt 
BOSTON 
LittlO Building 
CLEVELAND
Athletic Club 
Building
WASHINGTON
Woodward Bldg. 
t>pp. Shoroham 
Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
Whitney. Bldg. 
133 Geary St.
Get together at once. Re-organize 
if necessary. Much is expected of the 
clans during this school year. Every 
Tech man can easily afford to give 
two or three hours a month towards 
this big development work, which will 
mean much to the future of ourgreat 
Alma Mater. You owe it to the school. 
Now is the time to pay it.
1. Pay your alumni dues now.
2. Get in touch with your clan sec
retary and help him get tilings going.
3. Be sure and attend all clan meet
ings.1 * ii>
HARTFORD?
,Best wishes for a Happy New Year. 
,The work of the Clan during the year 
1920 is certainly to be complimented, 
and we wish for many more successes 
during the year 1921. The average 
attendance at the meetings have been 
about fifty loyal Techites and they 
have not only been there in presence, 
hut also in spirit.
One of the biggest things started by 
the Clan to date is the planned ath
letic drive to be conducted during the 
last two w6eks of February. This 
drive was decided upon after a careful 
survey had been made of the athletic 
situation. We believe that if our plan 
of the drive is carried through, there 
will be no doubt as to the outcome 
of it.
The Clan meets the third Saturday 
of every month at 1 p. m., Room B, 
Chamber of Commerce, and the first 
Thursday of every month at 6:30 p. m., 
Flemish room, Fulton Cafeteria. It is 
your duty to attend and bring other 
Tech people with you.
DONT PROCRASTINATE OR PUT OFF 
RESOLVE you are going to BOOST and B^CK Tech to the limit for the 
whole of 1921.
Tech needs you as never before.
Have you ever stopped to consider what Tech did for you?
That you paid only 20% to 25% of the actual cost of your education 
here?
That you have an Employment Bureau maintained to serve you at 
ail times?
That you are always welcome on the campus?
That you have The Tartan sent you by the Administration and the 
Athletic Association if you are a paid-up member?
Still the latest figures show some have forgotten their moral obligation. 
Look for yourself.
FormerTotal
GraduatesStudentsPaid-upPaid-upPaid-up
EligibleGraduatesAssociatesMembers1631600253661Industries ...............600380096128224
Margaret Morrison...43340023725262Psychology ..............30
Science ..................8663400*346*168*514
HOW SAD!
iShe drifted along like a fairy,
And posed in a ravishing way,
Her manner was cheerful and airy; 
Her laughter was vibrant and gay.
A man, youthful, handsome, and 
stylish,
Was sitting apart from the throng 
Assuming a poise quite beguilish,
She leisurely sauntered along.
But though she could carry so neatly, 
The part played by fair womankind 
Her efforts were wasted, completely, 
Because the poor fellow was blind.
Ex.
If you are not a member JOIN NOW by writing G. L. Tilbroolc, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
We must show the Administration and Trustees that we are vitally in
terested in what they do. We have representation on the Administrative 
Council and hope to secure representation on the Board of Trustees soon, 
You must back these representatives as well as all other Alumni Officers. 
HELP BY:
Personal work for new members.
Contributing your share to Athletic and Alumni support.
Sending your suggestions to the Alumni Office.
Keeping us informed of your position and address.
PAY THAT DEBT YOU OWE TO TECH! NOW!
SUMMARY OF EMPLOYMENT BUREAU FOR YEAR 1920
MENS DIVISION
GRADUATES
Number of positions given out................................'_____________....
Total money earned on monthly basis....................................................$19,
NIGHT STUDENTS
Number of jobs given out.........................'.............................................
Total money earned on monthly basis.,................................................$ 8,
DAY STUDENTS
Number of jobs given out......................................................................
Total money earned.............................................................................$58,
115
768.68
69
592.55
2,929
282.75
WOMENS DIVISION
DAY STUDENTS
Number of jobs given out......................................................................
Total money earned.............................................................................2.
GRADUATES
Number of positions given out................................................................
Total money earned on monthly basis...................................................5 3
231
420.35
26
,186.00
With acknowledgments to K. C. B.
*
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
LABORATORY APRONS 
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS 
Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3812 Forbes Street, Corner Boquet
The alumni records show that Hart
ford, Conn., has a sufficient number of 
Toclr mon and women to organize a 
clan, and the following persons should 
got together and organize as soon as 
possible. Arthur L. Morley, care 
United Drug Company, Boston, Mass., 
Is at the present lime trying to organ 
i/o a claii from tlio whole of New England and an effort should b.o made on 
the part of every Tochlto In the New 
England district to support tills work. 
In every possible way.
A. C. Bennett, S., M7,
3.1*1 Windsor avenue 
L. M. Block, S.,
304 Garden street; 
IT. B. ChswlcU, S., 19.
403 Albany avenue
L. 0. Fogg, S. MS),
50 Tromont street 
Morris D. Ghulstein, S, 19,
34 Pequot street 
Mrs. Win. Harrington, M., '12,
1S9 South Whitney street 
E. D. Lambert, S., 13,
429 Prospect avenue
A. E. Levin, I.,
8090 Albany avenue 
David A. Neinser, S., 19,
2S6 Franklin avenue 
Charles E. Rutherford, I., '17,
American Wiremold Co. 
R. B. Prouty, I.,
249 Franklin avenue 
Reuben j. Solomon, I., '16,
18 Cedar street 
L. H. Hale, S., 20,
32 Connecticut Blvd., East Hartford  * *
EMPLOYMENT NEWS
BATTERY
Exide 
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELEdTRlG CD.
Baum and Mellwood VAll Kinds of Batteries $ 
Repaired & Reclmrged
*
I SKI BO INN |
-------------------------------------- *Kcmodelt'd and JEnlarged
CLEAN, i
WHOLESOME, :<
FOOD
t Served at best prices 
| CIGARS CANDY |
XWV
ILLAI
Thishos was 
a model
Every alumni member should advise 
the Alumni-Student Placement Bureau 
of all openings coming to his atten
tion at once, since many of our alumni 
are out of positions at this time, due 
t;o the industrial slump.
GOINGLAST CALL
Get Yours NowSend in 15 "2s"
There are about 150 Registers of 
Graduates left.
They cost over ope dollar each.
Got one, while they last, for thirty 
cents.
You should know where your class
mates are.
Valuable in a buslnoss way.
No now odltlon to bo printed for at 
least a yoar.
15 *'2V' TODAY
G. L. TlLBROOIv.
In packages of 30 protected 
by special moisture-proof 
wrapper. Also in round 
AIR-TIGHT tina of 50.
LAST MONTH, on a bet. 
WITH THE boys up home. 
I SPENT a night.
ALONE IN the old. 
HAUNTED HOUSE.* * #
AND WHEN I heard. 
MOANS AND groans 
I SAID The wind.
AND TRIED to sleep.
I HEARD rappings.
AND SAID Rats.
AND ROLLED over.
THEN I heard steps.
AND IN the light.
OTA dying moon.
A WHITE spook rose.
I WASN'T scaredmuch. 
BUT DIDNT feel like. 
STARTING ANYTHING. 
BUT THEN I caught. 
JUST A faint whiff.
OF A familiar 
AND DELICIOUS smell. 
WHICH TIPPED me off. 
SO I gave the ghost.
THE HORSE laugh.
AND SAID "Ed.
YOU FAT guys.
MAKE BUM ghosts.
BUT BEFORE you fade. 
LEAVE WITH me one.
OF YOUR cigarettes. 
THEY SATISFY."* * *
T
HAT spicy, delicious 
aroma of fine tobaccos, 
both Turkish and Domestic, 
makes you almost hungry for 
the  satisfy-smoke. And 
there isnt a ghost of-a chance 
ypull ever find its equal any
wherefor the Chesterfield 
blend is an exclusive blend. 
It cant be copied.
NEW YORK ALUMNI BANQUET
Tho New York Clan will hold its 
annual banquet in conjunction with 
othor clans in tho East on January 
29, 1921. If you have a New York trip 
to take, make it at this time.
CICARSTTBS
