MOUNT 
ST. MARYS 
NEXTarngiE Partait
TEA HOP 
TOMORROW4:30
UNION
VOL. XX NO. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1925
CHARTER THREE 
SPECIAL TRAINS 
TO WASH-JEFF
First Train to Leave at 11:10 
A.M. For Game October 17 
in Little Washington
ROUND TRIP FARE
ON SPECIALS $1.16
Students to Parade Through 
Town to Football Field 
Before Game
TEA DANCE IN THE UNION
TOMORROW AFTERNOON
j The first tea dancc of the year will 
be held tomorrow afternoon'at 4:30 in 
the Carnegie Union. The price will 
be the same as last year, twenty-five 
cents, and the entire college is eligi
ble to attend.
This is the first of a series of dances 
to be held each month in the Union. 
These affairs have been a part of Car
negies social calandar and unless the 
contrary is specified are open to ev
eryone from Senior to Plebe.
All girls will he admitted free, but 
the members of the opposite sex will 
be assessed the beforementioned quar
ter of a dollar.
IMPROVEMENTS 
ABOUT CAMPUS 
EXCITE FAVOR
With the chartering of three spe
cial trains over the Pennsylvania 
Railroad, plans are rapidly rounding 
into form to make this 3'ears trip to 
Little Washington on October 17 a 
successful one. The first of these 
specials will leave Union Depot at 
11:10 a. m., and Fourth avenue at 
11:13, arriving in Washington at 
12:25 p. m. The second train leaves 
Union Depot at 11:50 a. m. and 
Fourth avenue at 11:53, arriving at 
1:00 p. m. The last special leaves 
Union Depot at 12:35 p. m., stops ar 
Fourth avenue at 12:38, at Carnegie 
at 12:58, and arrives in Washington 
at 1:45. i'wo trains will return at 
ten-minute intervals immediately after 
the game. The other special will be 
held until mignight to enable the stu
dents to attend the numerous dances 
in Washington that night. The round 
trip fare is only $1.16 and the tickets 
will be good on all regular trains as 
well as the specials.
As in previous years, (lie students 
will parade in Washington before the 
game. This demonstration will be in 
charge of head cheer leader Pete 
Seaman. After having this properly 
impressed the natives, the students 
will go to College Field to see the 
Plebe team entertain the Little Presi
dents. This seance will begin at 1:00 
p. m.
The varsity game iis scheduled to 
start at 2:30. Carnegie cheers will 
come from the same stands that were 
occupied by Tech supporters last 
year. The vast superiority of CI. 
T.s cheering has always been a fea
ture of the gameand \?iLl be ' greater 
than ever this year.
Geneva in the game two weeks ago 
was able to score two touchdowns 
against W. & J. The Presidents have 
the best material they have had since 
their undefeated 1922 season. They 
were not in condition in Lhe, Geneva 
game but are being pointed for the 
Carnegie game Which Is the big at
traction in Washington and Jeffersons 
home schedule.
Arrangements have been made by 
the W. and J. authorities for dances 
from 9 p. m. until 'midnight in the hall 
room of the George Washington Ho
tel and at the Gardens. The hand will 
be guests at these'dances and will re
turn on the special train leaving 
Washington at midnight.
George J. Murphy., President of. the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
FRESH1ES WILL MAKE 
SOCIAL DEBUT FRIDAY
ART EXHIBITION TO 
OPEN OCTOBER 15
Interesting Lecture Series 
Will be Given by Men 
Prominent in Art
WILL AWARD PRIZES
The Twenty-fourth Carnegie Insti
tute International Exhibition of Paint
ings will open on October 15 and con 
tinue until December 6.
;This years Exhibition will be the 
second largest ever held at the Insti
tute. There will be about 500 paint
ings from 13 nations. Each national 
group will be hung in a separate gal
lery. Germany and Austria will be 
represented for the first time since 
1914.
I The worlds foromost painters will 
I be represented by their latest works| Leaders of several schools of English 
schools have exhibits. The French 
art is still squarely radical, but is 
growing more conservative. Each 
country has several schools, each rep
resented.
j Several lectures will be given durJ ing the Exhibition. The first will be 
j given October 20, by Homer Saint 
I Gaudens, the Director of Fine Arts in 
| the Institute, on the subjecL of The 
Art Spirit. October 2G Royal Cor| tissoz, Mi't editor of the Now' Yt&k 
Tribune, will speak on the Interna
tional. William LeRolle, t^e Euro
pean representative of the Depart
ment of Fine Arts, will speak Tues
day, November 3. The last lecture 
will be given Noverber 17 by A. 
Arinoff, who wiil speak on "Modern 
Russian Art. .
The Galleries will be open as usual 
from 10:00 a. m. to 10:00 p. m. on 
week days, and till 0:00 p. m. on Sun
days. On Tuesday and Friday after
noons and on Wednesday and Friday 
evenings during October and Novem
ber informal gallery talks, will be given. 
Upon request gallery guidance will .be 
provided for. any morning, afternoon 
and evening.
I Four prizes are .to be .announced -at. 
the opening, not including the Gar
den Club Prize of ?500, which is an 
j innovation this year.. It is offered by. 
j the Gar ten Club of Allegheny County 
! for the best painting of flowers or a 
j garden to be submitted, this painting 
I to be chosen by the Jury of Award.
The Plebes will make their social 
debut at the annual reception to be 
given October 9 in the Union by Dean 
Green and Dean Tarbell for all new
comers at Carnegie/ There will be 
dancing and entertainment between 
the hours of eight and twelve.
The members of the Dragon and the 
Mortar Board, the Senior honorary so
cieties of men and women respect
fully, will act as the introduction com
mittee, so that an excellent oppor
tunity is afforded newcomers to meet 
personolly some of the most important 
men and women on the campus.
This partj is one of the outstanding 
social . events of the year for the 
plebes and is given for the purpose of 
making them better acquainted with 
the members of the faculty as well 
as with, members of their own classDeans Green and Tarbell said that 
the program is to be of unusual merit 
although the exact nature of the en
tertainment is being kept a mystery.
, The Carnegians, the most popular dance orchestra of Carnegie this 
year, have been secured to play for 
the dance.
Upper classmen will not be ad
mitted as this is a strictly Freshman 
affair. There is a plan under con
sideration to give all Freshmen tickets 
and in this way limit the dance to 
them alone.
TARTAN REPORTERS WILL
MEET EDITORS WEDNESDAY
There will be a meeting of all Tar
tan reporters, both Freshman and 
Sophomores, on Wednesday noon, at 
1:00 oclock, in The Tartan office. 
The Editor-m-'Chief Karl Winning, has 
some things of importance to discuss 
with all 'those who intend to take 
their reporting work .seriously this 
year.
There are still several vacancies in 
reporting positions on the staff. 
Freshmen who have shown interest 
in the work so far this year, are en
rolled in a course in reporting, under 
the supervision of The Tartan News 
Editors. In this way they are learn
ing the technic of school newspaper I 
writing, and are evolving astyle of 
their own. Freshmen and Sopho
mores who are interested in publica
tions work are urged to respond to 
theid writing itch, and to report at 
The Tartan office Wednesday at one 
oclock, where they will meet the edi
tor and hear of plans for this years 
work.
Cleveland Landscape Archi
tect Busy Beautifying 
Carnegie
UNDERGROUND WIRES 
TO REPLACE OLD
Grounds About New Gym 
Show Great Improvement 
This Fall
DR. KERR AND BACH
CHOIR ON CHAPEL
PROGRAM THURSDAY 
Rev. Hugh Thomson Kerr. 1>.  
-I* D.. from the Shudysido Prosbyterian Church, will be the speak*> er at the next chapel service,  
Thursday,-October S. in the Fine  
*:* Arts Theater at 12:50.
I* Dr. Kerr is very much inter*: ested iu Carnegie Tech and will  
v be remembered as one of the 
v men most concerned with tho  
v founding of . the local Technon  
I* club. In addition to Dr. Kerrs 
* talk, Dr. Baker is planning a  
-iprogram of special music. A  
v chapel choir *is being chosen from  
I* among the members of the Bach ; 
I* Choir, and, if pssible, will bev come a permanent part of chapel
* service.
PA-MA DAY WILL 
BE OBSERVED 
ON NOVEMBER 7
NEXT FOOTBALL DANCE
SATURDAY, OCTOBER I0TH
Luncheon, Parade, Football 
Game, Sight Seeing Are 
Among Features
FRANCIS COOK IS
CHAIRMAN OF DAY
Prof. Wurtz Chairman of 
Faculty Committee For 
Annual Event
The extensive campus improve 
meats, which in<.\idently witnessed 
the passing of the picturesque "Hog 
Shuto and the less picturesque 
boardwalks are gradually nearing 
completion under the direction of the 
superintendent oL Lhe buildings and 
grounds, who is following plans of 
Albert D. Taylor, Cleveland landscape 
architect.
Twenty-five thousand square feet of 
cement Were needed to replace the 
boardwalks, cinderpaths and wooden 
stairways for the convenience of the 
students and for beautifying the 
campus.
The wide new stair approach to the 
gym, in addition to completing the 
structure will greatly facilitate the 
handling of large crowds that attend 
the important games. The final grad
ing and terracing of tho grounds sur
rounding Lhe new gym will soon be 
completed, which will mark the end 
of the work covering a period of 
more than two years.
The hog-chute,  a traditional ob
ject for the curses of upperclassmen 
for the last ten years, has been re
moved as a part, of the general plan 
of improvements. In its stead and 
entirely new entrance Jias been made 
at a point some forty feet from the 
chute.
Langley Labratory once more as
sumes its place as a respectable unit 
among tho buildings with a new and 
attractive coat of paint.
Arthur W. -Thompson, president ot' 
the Philadelphia Company,"has shown' 
a personal interest In the campus 
improvements, and has ordered the 
removal of tho wooden poles and the 
overhead wiros on Woodlawu and 
Margaret Morrison avenue, and then* 
replacement with underground wires 
and decorative lights of the boule
vard type.
The entire .cam ptis is gradually as
suming an air of permanence with the 
grading of the gym grounds, tho 
planting of hardy perennial shrub
bery, and the healthy growth of green 
lawn. All these improvements, neces
sary an inconvenience and eyesore 
while they were being made, will, nev
ertheless insure against further rad
ical changes, and wilt permit Carne
gie to grow old gracefully.
SCHOLARSHIP CUP 
WON BY DELTA MU
Dormitory Cup Awarded For 
the First Time Won by 
Boss Hall
DELTA CHI RHO NEXT
Della. Mu fraternity was awarded | 
the fraternity scholarship cup at Genoral Assembly last week tor the sec
ond consecutive time. Boss Hall was 
also given the dormitory scholarship 
cup, a new trophy that has been do
nated by the faculty club. The ratio 
of the quality points earned to the 
scheduled units carried was 3.86 for 
Delta Mu fraternity and 3.5-1 for Bose 
Hall.
In the fraternity scholarship raco, 
Delta Chi Rho was second with an 
average of 3.S3 and Beta Sigma Rho, 
third with 3.80. it, is interesting Lo 
note that thoro were six fraternities 
with higher avorages than that of 
Boss Hall. Since the founding of Lhe 
I'raLernity scholarship1 race Beta 
Thela'Pi has won the cup live times; 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, once: Delta Upsilon, once, and Delta Mu. twice.
In the dormitory competition, 
Schobell Hall way second with an av
erage of 3:3!, aUd iiendor.4on Hall, 
third with 3.32. About 800 men par
ticipated in these two races. The rat
ings for Lhe fraternities for the whole 
year are as follows:
Year
1. Delta Mu ................................3.86
2. Delta Chi Rho.........................3.83
3. ' Beta Sigma Rho.........................3.80
Theta XI ...........................3.7(1
Delta' Phi Del til............... . 3.61
4.
THISTLE STAFF WANTS 
ASSISTANTS THURSDAY
The staff of the Thistle., Carnegie's 
year book, sends out its first call .for 
Plebe and Sophomore assistants on 
both the business and editorial 
branches. The first meeting will ,be 
held Thursday noon in the Publica
tions office, room 12, in the College of 
Industries.
The purpose of this meeting is to 
get the aspirants acquainted with the 
members of the staff, particularly 
those under whom they will work. Of 
special importance will be a talk to 
those interested in soliciting subscrip
tions for a sales campaign to be in
augurated the week following.
A position on the Thistle board is 
an honor eagerly sought. Carnegie's 
year bock is one of the best produced 
in the country according to the rat
ings of the printers and engravers, of 
college annuals. In addition it is the 
only publication in which the top can 
be reached in two years, the book be
ing produced by Lhe Junior class.
The invitation to work on the an
nual is extended to students from al! 
schools, both boys and girls, Plebes 
and Sophomores.
I). Acacia .........................................3.57
7. Phi Kappa...................................3.1)4
8. Beta Theta PI..........................3.545
9. Delta Upsilon ........................3.53
10. Delta Tan Delta................3.52
11. Sigma Nu .................................3.50
12. Sigma Epsilon Phi...............3.43
13. Kappa Sigma ...:..................3.435
14. Woodlawn Club ......................3.38
15. Sigma Alpha lips!ton..............3.35
16. Alpha Tan Omega....................3.33
17. Alpha Sigma Phi.....................3.30
18. Pi Kappa Alpha ....................3.306
,19. Kappa Sigma Rho .......................3.20
Those for the dormitories are:
Y ea r
Boss Hall .........................................3.54
(Continued on Page Three.)
FRAZIER ELECTED PRES.
OF INTER-FRAT COUNCIL
Nearly All of the 
Of 25 Have
Graduates 
Accepted Positions
13. C Frazier of Theta Xi, was elected 
President of the Interfraternity Coun
cil at the inaugural meeting Septem
ber 20. Frazier is president of the 
Student Y. M. C. Ar, president of the 
Technon Club, a member of Druid 
Honorary Society, of Pi Delta Epsilon, 
rad was in charge of the Interscholastic track meet last year.
AW. Bryant of Kappa Sigma fra
terni t y, president of Theta Tan, will 
work with Frazier as vice president. 
W. E. Bender of Delta Mu, varsity 
cross country man and a member of 
Tau Beta Pi, is the new secretarytreasurer.
Dean Tarbell officiated at the open
ing, asking for a renewal of the Car
negie First pledge. He also suggest
ed that the council take steps to con
trol fraternities consistly occupying 
the cellar position in scholastic stand
ing.
The matter of change in rush in ? 
rules was tabled for consideration at 
the next meeting.
Pa-Ma Day, which will be held on 
November 7, marks the third annual 
day set aside for Mother" and Dad 
at Carnegie. Preparations are well 
on their way to completion and an in
teresting and entertaining occasion is 
assured tho visitors.
For the last two years Fathers Day. 
as it was then called, was very suc
cessful and satisfactory to everyone. 
Mothers have been accorded an equal 
share in the celebration this year, and 
the Fathers Day has boon changed 
to Pa-Ma Day. Now Mils" as well 
as Pas" are officially invited to at
tend.
Francis W. Cook, a member of Sig 
ma Epsilon Phi social fratornity, of 
Druids, Delta Skull, and Dragons, tho 
three honorary class societies, VicePresident of his class last your, and 
of the Science Senior Class this year, 
has boen appointed student chairman 
of Pa-Ma Day.
Professor Wurl of tho Electrical 
Englnooring Department, is tho Chair
man of the Faculty Committee.
The student committee will no com
posed ot Student. Council members 
and will work in conjunction with tho 
Faculty Committee. Tho Honorary 
Societies -Druids, Delta Skull, Dra
gons, and Mort.ar Board will aid tho 
committees In formation of the purado.
Although the details of the pro
gram httv*. not boon .fully ducldod 
upon, the general plan consists of a 
sight-seeing tour of tho Campus and 
classrooms, which will last all morn
ing. The hungry visitors will then 
bo refreshed by a luncheon at the 
Commons. After tho lunch everyone 
on the campus will assemble at the 
Central Building and parade to Mar
garet Morrison, tho Kiltie Band lead
ing Lhe procession. The march will 
be continued to the Carnegie Bowl, 
where the Drexol-Carnogie fool,hall 
game will be wltnessod.
All the doors of Carnegie are to he 
swung wide open and our parents will 
leave with an excollent and adequate 
Impression of the Carnogio Campus, 
class rooms, and spirit.
MUSICAL CLUBS FIRST 
TRIP PLANNED FOR DEC.
Last Sundays rehearsal of the Mu
sical Clubs marked the return of many 
of the members of last years Clubs 
who were unable to attend tho try
outs two weeks ago. There are still 
quite a number of lasL years men 
who as yet have not boon present at 
the rehearsals this season, but now 
that fraternity rushing season Is over, 
it is hoped that they will resume their 
placesManager George Lo Baron returned 
Sunday night from a, short trip north, 
during which h,e visited Grove City, 
Oil City, Fredonla, Westfield, James
town, and Erie, making arrange
ments for the Musical Clubs tour of 
this section Lhe first week in Decem
ber. Last year the Club made a simi
lar trip, and the result was so .satis
factory that they are invited Lo re
turn.
Publicity Manager of the Clubs, 
Merrill Holiinshead, is busy arrang
ing for the publishing of a descriptive 
four-page folder announcement of the 
plans and activities of the organiza
tion for this season. The first activi
ties of the Clubs this year are the 
dance, to be held November 11, the 
eve of Armistice Day, and a local con
cert, the exact date of which will be 
announced in a few weeks.
Tho next football danco will be hold 
in tho Carnegie Union, Saturday, Octobor 10th. Tho Collegiate Imps will 
play from 9:00 to 12:00.
Tho dance Saturday night, will bo 
tho second of tho year. The atten
dance will no doubt, bo larger than it 
was at the first a flair. Tho rushing 
season being over, many freshman 
and fraternity men who before wore 
unable to attend, will bo present this 
Saturday.
Football dances aro proving more 
popular with the student, body every 
year. They are sponsored tho Student 
Counil, and any profit which is roaliod is used to support some activity 
about the school.
Dances have been arranged on the 
following dates: October 10th, 24th, 
and 31st. November 7th, 14th, 21st 
and 28th.
THIEL UNABLE 
TO HOLD PLAID; 
SCORE IS 27-7
Lutherans Score Touchdown 
in First PeriodMake 
One First Down
CARNEGIE LINEUP 
SHOWS NEW FACES
COLLEGE THEATER 
CONFERENCE HERE
Representatives of American 
Schools and Playhouses 
to Convene
OTTO KAHN INVITED
Errors and Penalties Stop 
Tartan Machine From 
Enlarging Score
A national conference of the Amer
ican Theater in which tho relations 
of the college and community play 
house to the American Thoatur will be 
determined, is to bo hold at ,Carnejr> 
Tech on November 27 and 28.
Invitations have boon sent to Amer
ican Universities and collogos and 
community playhouses, in addition, 
many prominent producers and play
wrights are to attend the national 
conference pftho American Theater 
to be hold at Carnogio Tech.
Tho chief purpose of the eonfennco 
which Is tho first of Its kind in tho 
country, is to ascertain tho nature and 
extent of tho movement now going on 
In American collogos for the promotlo of intorest in sorious drama.
"Tho program," President Baker, 
the originator of tho conference, 
states, "will bo so arranged an to bring 
out not only tho nature of the work 
done at, the collogos, but also to show | 
the significance of the community
boaters. The representatives of the 
college will ho given an opportunity 
to tell what Ids institution Is doing 
tor the cultivation of drama. Such 
questions as tlio purpose of the work, 
financial support:, and colloge credits, 
will bo considered during the seaslons."
Otto Kahn, whono name Is Identi
fied so often wil.li progressive move, 
rhonin In arts education, has become 
Interested in the conference p'lami and 
lias consented to take a place on 
lhe program as a speaker. Other 
prominent men of the theatrical world 
will also HpouIf before the conference.
A portion of the program will bo 
devoted to a theatrical clinic on such 
technical details as lighting and stage 
Hotting effectMO In connection with 
the dlnlc, an exhibition of model 
stage settings will be shown.
As a sidelight to tho conforence de
tails, it is planned also to have a 
production of pile of Galsworthy's 
plays presented by the Department of 
Drama of the Collogo of Fine Arts. 
B. Iden Payne, who gave up his work 
as a producer to become a full-time 
professor of drama at the Pittsburgh 
institution, will direct the production 
of the play.
BACH CHORUS CALLS FOR
STUDENTS AND FACULTY
The Baich Choir issues its call to 
all who are Interested in singing, 
The Invitation is extended to stu
dents and faculty, including members 
of the Musical Clubs. The choir in 
eluded five faculty members last year, 
The only requisites for membership 
are a fairly good voice and a willing
ness to attend rehearsals. Regular 
rehearsals will he held every Monday 
afternoon at 4:30, beginning Octo
ber 5.
An elaborate program, including a 
Bach Oratorio, is being planned for 
sometime late in December. The 
choir Is the 8nly one in Pittsburgh 
entirely devoted to Bach's music.
Those interested may apply to 
Miss Seaman, Room 1(10, Arts, on 
Wednesday or Thursday, October 7 
or 8, between 4 and 5 oclock.
Cornogies football season had an 
auspicious opening on Saturday when 
Thiol was dofoated 27-7. At the start; 
of the game Thiel was able to take 
advantage of Carnegies fumble of a 
punt, scoring their only touchdown. 
They were awarded the oxtra point 
when Carnegie was off side on the 
play for extra point after touchdown.
The Tartans lost littlo time in get
ting those points back. Vassia kicked 
off to Kristof, who returnod the bait 
to the thirty yard line Baatian was 
then thrown for a two yard loss. On 
the next play Beede ran wild through 
right tackle on a fako double pass for 
Carnegies first score. Bastiau failed 
in his attempt for goal.
The real power of the Skibo offense 
was now brought into play. WAith 
Bastian and Donahue making wide 
end runs or slipping off tackle, Good
win gaining ground on the ond-around 
play, and Beede plunging tho lino, tho 
ball was worked up to tho ono yard 
line by the middle of the second per
iod. From boro Beode had littletrouble pushing tho ball ovor for six 
more points. Bastian kicked goal.
This did not satisfy tho Scotch, and 
before tho end of the period Beode 
made another of tlufao fake double 
passes that Is so famous In Pitts his
tory, running fourteen yards for his 
third touchdown of tho game. Once 
more Baatian kicked goal.-
The second half opened with Vassia. 
kicking off to Carnegie. Kristof re
ceived on the thirty-two yard lino and 
returned tho ball nine yards. Without, 
once relinquishing possession of the 
ball, the Tartans marched down tin: 
field to Thiol's four-yard lino. Start
ing from the extreme right of the 
field, Bastian swept wide around left, 
end almost to tho side linos before 
crossing the goal for Carnegie's In,at 
touchdown. Baatian was again suc
cessful iu hJs try for goal.
During the mat of this period, Car
negie was not able to pick up mnoh 
ground. They wore repeatedly penal
ized for holding and offside play. The 
penalties In 111 la period alone amount
ing to almost fifty yards. With tho 
ball on Thiol's thirty-live yard lino, 
fourth down and thh'o vards to go, 
Beede attempted to plunge the linn. 
He tripped and Thiel took the ball on 
their thirty-three yard lino
II was here that the Lutherans 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
DORM COUNCIL DRAFTS 
REGULATIONS FOR TRIALS
A preliminary druft of trial rogulaiLions for dormitories was drawnup> 
at tho last meeting of the Mons Dor
mitory Council. All Dormitory trials, 
must be conducted according lo the 
regulations and prodded over by the: 
President of tho TIoll,
The Mens Dormitory Council bdfltaken this means to abolish the Plobw 
razz trials which were held for th&* 
amusement of upper classirien. AH' 
Dormitory Lrials will be conducted AW-* 
der tho trial regulations drawn up by 
the Dormitory council. The Presi
dent, assisted by the discipline com
mittee, are the only ones authorized 
to hold trials. 'These will not be con
fined to Plebes alone but to any Hall 
resident who violates the dormitory 
regulationsThe council, in its action, is seek
ing to work in harmony with the dor
mitory students and the Student Coun
cil. At it meeting, the Dormitory 
Council fixed Wednesday night as its 
regular meeting night.
A week ago Sunday, in the after(Continued on Page Three)
PUPPET WANTS MEN TO COM
PETE FOR NEXT YEARS STAFF
The Puppet repeats its call for men 
or women to compete for next years 
staff positions. As there are very 
few oftt, the chances for success are 
much better than bust year. The posi
tions for which the new men will ul
timately strive are editors, associate 
editor and exchange editor. The 
Puppet Key is an additional reward 
for consistent work during the year.
Previous experience is unnecessary 
in this work. If not accepted, work 
wrill be returned with suggestions for 
improving it. Co-operation of the staff 
is assured to all who come out. Ma
terial for the next issue, the Odd 
Number, must be handed in this week. 
New men should drop cards showing 
their names and addresses in C. I. T. 
Post Office, care of Puppet.
: Finding a job, apparently, is the
| least of the worries of graduates of 
Carnegie according to the report the 
; Alumni Placement Bureau indicating 
! that practically all of the graduates 
! of the class of 1925 have already acj cepted full-time positions. , The only 
j exceptions among the .'{25 members 
jot the class, are those who have not 
| yet decided upon their careers or who 
; have been unsuccessful in obtaining 
| work in certain localities.
! Nearly ail of the 200 male members 
j of this years class had several offers 
each from prospective employers, the 
Bureau placing the average number 
of offers at three.
The rapidly increasing practice of 
many of the larger employers of the 
country in sending representatives to 
interview college graduates at iheir 
respective institutions is reflected in 
the report that at least 41 differentI
firms were represented by delegates 
to interview Carnegie graduates this 
year. Many of the representatives ar
rived early in April, the visitations 
continuing throughout June.
An increasing demand for graduates 
to enter training courses in the plants 
for periods of six months lo two 
years is pointed o.ut. Engineer, for 
executive and junior executive posi
tions, as usual, were much Fought by 
the representatives while a large 
number of the Carnegie graduates re
ceiving tempting offers to enter sales 
and business administration work that 
required the fundamentals of engi
neering training.
A large demand for teachers of en
gineering and industrial subjects was 
noted this yeau. although the prefer
ence of the graduates was largely for 
employment in industry A fairly 
(Continued on Page Three.)
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPT. MEET TOMORROW 8 P. M.
Tomorrow evening at eight oclock 
tinMechanical Engineering Depart
ment will have Its first gef-together 
with a Smoker and general Jollifica
tion in the Carnegie Union. The Car
negie Mechanical Engineering Society 
has charge of the affair and every Me
chanic, whether a member or not. 
or Plebe who has decided to take me
chanical engineering, i invited. An 
interesting , program with movies, 
stunts,.a word or ho from members of 
the facultv and of the Society, and 
lastly eats amid a smoke screen, iias 
been prepared.
The C. M. E. S. Is one of the oiilesf 
departmental societies on the campus 
and has recently been quite active.
The officers for the ensuing year 
are: President. E. A. Sirabian; VicePresident, D. G. Dalton; Secretary, S. 
H. Hahn; Treasurer. H. W. Kachel.
I
Final Registration Data Shows
Slight Increase Over Last Year
, Registration statistics for the pres
ent semester as Issued by the Regiaj t.rar, Alan Bright, place the number of 
students enrolled In Lhe regular day 
courses of the Institute at. 2,090. 
These figures show a slight Increase 
over those of a corresponding dale of 
lhe preceding year when 2,052 aludents had enrolled. 'The increase was 
i most noticeable in the College of En
gineering and In the College of Fine 
Arts; other departments showed a 
; very slight loss.
The Freshman class this year num
bers 723 as compared to 720 a year 
ago. Of this number, 310 are in the 
; combined class of Engineering and 
: Industries while 234 are enrolled in 
the College of Fine Arts, and 160 In 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege.
The classification according to 
schools is given below;
Engineering........................................432
Fine Art ...........................................584
Industries ........................................275
M. M. C. C........................................480
Freshman (Eng, & Industries___310
Classlfied accordlngly to classo, 
thoro aro 17 graduato studentu, 324 
Senior, 357 Junior, 404 Sophomoro, 
723 Freshmon. 137 in short course, 
and (58 in special courae.
in Engineering, th largest enrollments wor3 In th Medianica] and 
CI vii Department, Archltecture and 
Painting and Decoratlng drew th 
largest numbor In th Art Sehool, 
while in M. M. C. C., costume Economfes and Secretarial studies were 
chosen by many studenti;.
Wilh record enrollmenl in th day 
courses, and an unusually heavy reg
istra tlon of night students, th figure. 
for th present year should surpass all 
previous marks.
EPISCOPAL STUDENT CLUB
TO MEET SUNDAY, OCT. 11
On next Sunday, October 11, at 5:30 
p. m., Lhe Whitehead Episcopal Stu
dent'! Club will hold its first regular 
meeting of the year, at the Church of 
the Ascension, which is located on 
Ellsworth avenue at Neville street. 
Supper will be served, after which a. 
short meeting will be hold, when some 
of the plans of the club for tho coming 
year will he announced. Also there 
will he a report of the Triennial Mo
tional Student Acmbly, which was . 
hold In Wisconsin, in Juno, and to
which the Whitehead Club sent three 
delegates.
This club Is composed of Episcopal 
students and faculty from Carnogio 
Tech, the University of Pittsburgh, 
and Pennsylvania College for Wo
men. Tho meetings, which are held 
about once a month, on Sunday eve
nings, afford a splendid opportunity 
for tho Episcopalians on all the col
lege campuss Lo get together and be
come acquainted. It is hoped that all
Episcopalians and those Interested in 
the Episcopal-Church, both students 
and faculty, will turn fjut fot this 
meeting on Sunday evening.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. OCTOBER 6, 1925CCCCCCCHHARTES PHILS A
 ^amegieiTartan
Published ovory wook by undergraduates of the Carnogio Institute of
Entered In tho Postonico of Pittsburgh nn second dann matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
J. M. GOSS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR8R. R. S1TZLER
MANAGING EDITOR
JOE CRISTOFF..........................................................................
R. L. LJ0PPIR, Assistant...,..................................................
........Sehenley 0285
..........Sehenley 0122
A. V. NERN.................
F. A. KOLB...................
S. WEIL.........................
H. TALLMADGH..........
NEWS EDITORS
....Sehenley 4070-J 
...Franklin G485-W
..............Hazel 1)310
....Highland 525-j
W..J. KIMMEL............
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
M. Nuttull, M. Cohen, F. Finn, M. Stump, R. M. Pow,C. Neu, C. Hartung,
L. Feldstein.
.1. A. C. FOLLER........
ATHLETIC EDITOR
..........Highland 5081
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
A. R. Barlow. Rebecca W, Speers, D. M. Davldtion,J. R. Bracken.
V. B SMITH.................
BUSINESS MANAGER
ADVERTISING MANAGER
CIRCULATION MANAGER
L. BARBROW...................Highland 417G-R
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
N. Alexander, J. L. Buerle, J. P. StiT/ak, B. Supowlt/,, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, lt. L. Cribbio, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. 
Bernardi, J. M. Alrgood, A. C. Campbell, R. S. Boyd, E. Ross.
Tho Edltor-ln-Chlef Is responsible for tho policy 
Managing Editor for the make up.
of this paper; the
Tho Tartan welcomes all communlcatlouH of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withhold If desired. All news ItoniB must bo in tho student 
pout office before 4:30, Thursday.
Tartan OIIlcoRoom 5, Industries Building. OlllcehoursDally 12:30*
1:20.
Start Your Busi
ness Career Now
A oliooklnK nccount with thin 
Htronit bunk Ivon you u cortili n
prcBtljio that 1,1 advnntnj....1,1addition It provldun a knowludrco <r 
Onunclnl proooduro that will iwrvo 
you In wood stolid In tlio conduct, of 
your buHlni'iM and jximoiml alfnlrn>
Ono of tlm outHtnndlnir ohnrnctorIsllcs of thin institution In tho jornoiial Intontii), of Mellon onicorii In 
tho flnnnoliil wolfaru of doponftprs.
Cnpltnl and Surplus 
$ 12,000,000.00
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
liiferve System
"The Oakland Bank
Capital - - - $300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $: 100,000.00 
I )eposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
Professor,
howcouldyou?
Hear about Old Brooksy 
slipping Jimmy the double 
zero ill Economics 31? Same 
snap course, and James 
made a good bluff at it, but 
Brooksys got himself a 
new Eversharp. Well, you 
know how it isthe marks 
just seem to slip off that rifled 
tip. About the only antidote 
is to get an Eversharp for 
yourself.
RTES PEI LE N SEOLW-J NFFEMNOIV
EVERS HARP 
andWAHL PEN
FormerFacultyMembex 
Receives Appointment
Dr. Pierrpont Nichols Made 
Head of Department
A former Carnogio teacher, Dr. 
Plerrepont Nichols, well remembered 
for bin ability and attractive personality, UNTS been appointed to the posi
tion of head oi' the English depart* 
men I, at Evansville College, Evans* 
vllle, Indiana. Dr. Nichols, who is an 
alumnus of Allegheny College, where 
he received the I3aehelor of Arts de
gree, also holds degrees of Master of 
Arts and Doctor of Philosophy from 
Harvard University, 
in addition to hi work at Carnegie, 
Dr. Nichols teaching career includes 
several years spent in the faculty of 
Pennsylvania State College and Wash
ington Square College, New York. Ho 
is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and 
alHo belongs to Delta Sigma Itlio and 
Delta Tau Delta fraternities. Ho has 
been a newspaper reporter and saw 
service In the world war. His varied 
experiences peculiarly lit him for the 
position which ho now holdsNAHE OSWLN-JWFAlumni Enter Team in j 
i ; U. C. Bowling League i-NAHE ELMV B
3808 FIFTH AVENUE
BOWLING, POOL AND BILLIARDS
Tobacco Confectionery
Sehenley 9291 
P. J. Fitzgibbon Leo Duncan
| Carnegie Alumni |
FLORIDA
Herman NIeman, E22, 218 Dyal-Upchurch Building, Jacksonville.
Albert D. Sheere, E20, 007 Blsboe 
Building, Jacksonvillo,
Mrs. Eric Iiennessee, M'17, Box 605, 
Lakeland.
Win. G. Blanchard, E12, 4 S. W. 
Second avenue, Miami.
Richard C. Brown, B12, 1229 N. W. 
Fourth street, Miami.
Wm. It. Callow, Jr., E24, Box 4084, 
Miami.
Mrs. W. C. Donslow, Mll, Coral 
Gables, Miami.
Clifford A. Lake, A'23, care Klehnel 
& Elliott, Miami.
Paul C. Rood, A23, 224 Central
Arcade, Miami.
Harry T. Young, I09, 1530 S. W. 
First street, Miami.
Stanley W, Kothe, 1*22, care Y. M. 
C. A., Tampa.
Arthur L. Morley, EM7, care Tam
pa Electric Company, Tampa.
V. S. Mollennuer, A'25, S. Dlsston 
Avenue, St. Petersburg.
Howard P. Mason, E'lO, care Hallowes. Coll Ins & Mason, Voro.
Robert J. Carr, I'23 Ex., 021 P 
street, care N. K. Bennett Company 
West Palm Beach.
Mrs. It. J. Carr, M 23 Ex., 021 P 
street, care N. 1C. Bonnet I Company, 
West Palm Beach.
Miss Margaret Vallowe, A'iM, 210 
Vallowe Court, West Palm Beach.
.STRAND THEATER
Imnginution will (lee in awe before 
(Inthrills of prehistoric monsteru 
and thi' stiangc fascination of ill uni
at Ic grandeur coniprobBod Into Wuttornon It, Rotlmokor-FlrHi N:tlontil speel a .lo, "Tho Loot World," which comes 
to Howland and (Mark's Strand Thea
ter, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 
October 8, !) and 10, Thin adaptation 
ol! Sir Arthur Coonan Doyles famous 
adventure talo, "The Lost World," ha* 
been translated to the screen by Earl 
Hudson with tho uncanny oluslvenoBB 
of a nightmare. Yet the hair-raising 
episodes are trunscondod by a bouutl* 
lypvo story that grips the heart as the 
other grips the mind. "The Lost 
World" marks tin opoeh in screen 
achievement because it combines in
to the .structure of heart drama those 
elements of tho spectacular which tire 
sufficient in themselves to the crea
tion of a gripping moving picture narrativo. Not only because it is diflerent, but because of its inherent excel
lence. the picture rises to front rank 
among the triumphs of the screen 
achievements. The fine reserve of the 
leading players, headed by Bessie 
Love, Lloyd Hughes, Lewis Stone and 
Wallace Beery, is worthy of comment.. 
Because of their extraordinary nov
elty, however, it is the animal actor: 
that compel, prior consideration. Not 
animals, but monsters. Towering 100- 
foot monsters, stalking through 
primeval forests in the untrnckcd 
heart of the Amazon countrya lost. 
world. As a novel, The Lost World 
ranks as one of Sir Arthur Conan 
Doyles most fantastic literary fabri
cations. It tells t|ie story of a party 
of English scientists, newspaper men 
mm a girl who venture into the wilds 
of South America and discover a lost, 
section of the world, where life has 
remained unchanged in pristine wild
ness throughout 100,000 centuries 
Capturing one of the monsters finally, 
tho party returns with it to London 
to prove oT their discovery, One of 
iho most thrilling scenes over filmed 
Is that in which the monster, escap
ing from Its captors, charging through 
the heart of London, wrecking build
ings' and terrifying thousands of p< 
pie, Besides this feature attraction 
a hurt subjects will Use be shown.
I3ALTIMOREPresident, Arthur AV. Crown over, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Bromo Seltzer Tower Building; Vice President, 
O. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments, Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. H. Dickey, 1318 Contin
ental Building.
BOSTONSecretary, John I<\ Maxwell, 220 Billings Hoad, Wollas
ton, Mass.
BUFFALOPresident, R. G. ToVVnsend, 22 Bidwcll Parkway; Vice 
President, B. A. Button, 288 Saranac Avenue; Secretary, and 
Trsasurer, Robert Porter, 367 Porter Avenue.
CANTON, OHIOPresident, II. W. Seldon, 3316 Tenth Street, N. 
W.; Vice President, Frank M. Gore, 135 West Cambridge 
Street, Alliance, Ohio; Secretary, Beatrice Ruff, 1301 Sliorb 
Avenue, N. W.; Treasurer, "William A. Buckley, 428 East 
Broadway, Alliance, Ohio.
CHICAGOPresident, J. B. Patterson, Iiavlnia, 111.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MacCaughey, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, 111.: 
Secretary and Treasurer, O. M. Lundy,, 5475 Kimbark Ave
nue, Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATIPresident, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, Uni
versity ol! Cincinnati; secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. L. V. 
Bohanon, 419 Torrence Road.
CLEVELANDPresident, George A. Ebeling, Newman-Stern Build
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. II. Montgomery, 492 East 108th 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundecn, 920 Yellowstone 
Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.
COLUMBUS* OHIOPresident, N. J. Engle, 226 South High 
Street; Vice President, Florence H. Lutz, 1824 North High 
Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Paloma, Department of 
Romance Languages, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
CONNECTICUTPresident, ll. W. Arnold, Southern N. Eng. Tel. 
Co., New Haven; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 103 Bev
erly Road, West Hartford.
! DAYTON, OHIOPresident, Fred Flader, 2505 West Riverview Ave
nue; Vice President, F. W. Heckert, 1127 Grafton Avenue; 
Secretary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Grafton 
Avenue.
DETROITPresident W. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse Elec. & 
Mfg. Co., 1535 Sixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. H. 
Miles, Milcs-Applipby Co., 4612 Woodward Avenue.
ERIESecretary and Treasurer, Edwin Gross, care Iiammermill 
Paper Company.
GOLDEN GATE, CALIF.President, John It. Gearhart, 353 Grand 
Avenue, Oakland, Calif.; Secretary and Treasurer, H. P. 
Fowler, 1.340 Josephine Street, Berkeley, Calif.
HARRISBURG!President, John G. Todd, 20y> North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.: Vice President, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Wood
bine Street; Harrisburg) Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 203/> 
North Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, G. D. Whitney, 
2604 Derry Street, Harrisburg.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
JOHNSTOWN, PA.Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYPresident, Conrad A. Stone, 406 Wash
ington Avenue, ..Charleroi, Pa.; Vice President, Alice G. Nixon, 
58 Schoonniaker Avenue, Monessen, Pa.; Secretary and Treas
urer, A. B. Lowstutter, Lock No. 4, Pa.
NEW YORK-President, J. M. Guter, 15 Park Row, N. Y. C.; Vice 
President, -I. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Tuckahoe, N. Y.; 
Secretary arid Treasurer; S. A. Smith, 8 West 40th Street, New 
York City.
NORFOLK, VA.President, T. D. Fitzgibbon, Sll Holt Street; Sec
retary. Janies W. Phillips, 61.1 Raleigh Avenue.
PHI LA DELlfHIA President, Lynn Exline, 505 Real Estate Trust 
Building; Vice President, John F. Ferguson, 1730 Sansom 
Street; Secretary and Treasurer, AVilliam Burke, 404 South 
Broad Street.
PITTSBURGH, PA. President, M. R. Walton, 5838 Atderson Avenue.
ST. LOIJLSPresident. Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jcfllerson Road, Webs
ter Grove, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 Waverly 
Place, Webster Grove, Mo.; Secretary, Nelson P. Rice, 106*4 
Arcade Building, St. Louis: Treasurer, M. A. Zeller, 2128 Rail
way Exchange Building.
SOUTHERN CALI FOUNl A -Secretary, Bessie Finkclhor, *319 Delta 
Building, Los Angeles, Calif.
TULSAPresident, II. (i. Texter, care Standard Seamless Tube Com
pany, 710 Mid-Continent Building; Vice President, Arthur 
Kerr, 1617 Quaker Street; {Secretary and Treasurer. Gertrude 
Hartman MelSwan, 1.70-1 South Utica Avenue.
WASHINGTON, l>. C. President, ). 11. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Harriet Staples, 36.11 S Street, N. W.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, TT27 Lexington Place, 
N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO...President, John E. -Jackson, 21 Euclid Ave
nue, Strut hers, Ohio : Vice President, Harold P. Hildebrand, 
327 Cedar Avenue, Sharon, Pa.; Secretary and Treasurer,
__________Kalph P. Woodward. 165 Carroll Si reel. Youngstown.
Carnegie Grads to Compete 
in Bowling Contest
Carnegie Teen Alumni have entered 
a team In the 1925-2G Bowling League 
of the University Club of Pittsburgh. 
This Bowling League has been an in
stitution of the Club for the past 
thirty years, and is made up of teams 
composed of alumni from sixteen dif
ferent universities and colleges.
Last year was the first time that 
Carnegie was represented. Four men 
were on the team and they finished 
in sixth piace.. Prospects are more 
promising this year and there are 
possibilities of improving the stand
ing. The personnel of the team is 
as follows: Bob Drake, 21; Bob Na
tion, 22; Charles Schumacher. 17; 
Bill Classer, 10, and J. C. Sawder9, 
'1G, Captain.
All gomes of the series, aref rolled 
on the alleys of the University Club, 
123 University Place.
M. M. Alumnae Luncheon 
To Be Held Next Saturday
ST. LOUIS CLAN
The St. Louis Clan has recently 
chosen the following men to head the 
clan for the coming year.
Mr. Nelson P. Rice, President. 1112 
Arcade Building^ St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. 
Paul Kligensmith, Vice-President; 
Mr. Oliver Wilkins, Treasurer; Mr. M. 
A. Zeller, Secretary. 2128 Railway 
Exchange Building, St. Louis, Mo.
The Carnegie men in this district 
are quite enthusiastic about the com
ing game with the StLouis Univer
sity and are doing everything in their 
power to insure that the team and 
students will have a splendid time. 
Mr. Rice has started arrangements 
for a festival to take place on the day 
of the game.
As a graduate ofthe Arts School, 
Mr. Rice is well qualified for execut
ing the lavish program which is being 
planned. From returns of outlying 
Carnegie men, most of the clan will 
gather in the near future for a "gettogether" dinner to discuss the final 
details of the welcome to be extended 
to the team.
Arrangements have already been 
completed by the St. Louis Clan to 
take care of all newspaper publicity 
regarding the game, and two former 
staff men from the Tartan will cover 
the game photographically and edi
torially.
This will enable the Tartan to re
ceive graflex photos and sports write
ups directly after the game. *
Carnegie men in St. Louis and vi
cinity are requested to get in touch 
with the president iu regard to the
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association will held a luncheon on 
Saturday, October 10, at 1:00 p. m. in 
the Carnegie Inn. After the luncheon, 
a short business meeting will be held 
at which reports will be given con
cerning the progress made during the 1 preparations for the game if they have
previous year, and plans for future n0( ,jone s0 already,
efforts will, be advanced. | ___________
Requests for reservations will bo 
considered in the order in which they 
are received. They should be sent to 
Mrs. Raymond Hosford, 701 Ivy street,
Pittsburgh, accompanied by a check 
for $1.25. No revervations will be 
made after October 7.
The luncheon will not interet'ere at 
all with the St. Marys football game 
to be held later in the afternoon.
And So Ad Infinitum
Scientists report that fleas can go 
/itbout food for two weeks. But they 
vnn*t.Tnmpti Times.
ARE YOU FROM BUFFALO?
The Scalp and Blade Chapter of 
Carnegie invites all boys from Buffalo 
nd vicinity, such as those from Ham
burg, East Aurora, or Tonawanda, to 
a meeting to be held at the Acacia 
House at 630 Clyde street, on Thurs
day night, October 8, 1925.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
-UX VXUXDYX7 -;2Ys| Nsj
405 SOUTH CRAIG
Next door to gents furnishers 
TAILOR FOR THE STUDENTS 
We do first-class altering for 
reasonable prices.
Prompt Delivery Service. 
Sehenley 1538 
DYEING REPAIRING
HAZEL 03005826 FORBES STREETvSVVSEILWeV -LH WJJT
SPECIAL LUNCH, 45c 
Balcony for Parties.
AND PASTRY SHOP 
NEAR THE CAMPUS
No Cover Charge.
DINNER, 60c 
Home Made Candies.
MUCH INTEREST SHOWN I wfeek. Both trials were well attendIN FIRST PLEBE TRIAL etl by plebes and upperclassmen, arid 
--------- ! both proved a success, at least from
The chairman of the Plebe Regula
tions. Ray Gill, lids appointed with 
the approval of the Student Council, 
the Plebe trial judges for Arts, Indus
tries and Science Schools. F. L. 
Wagner will take the seat or plebe 
justice in Science, tKl me Fulmer in 
Arts, and Dick Hawke in Industries 
'Phe first plebe trials of the year 
were held in Arts, and Scifence last
NEARLY ALL OF THE
GRADUATES OF 25 HAVE
ACCEPTED POSITIONS
(Continued From Page One.) 
large number of the graduates 16ok 
temporary work for the summer A\ith 
the plan of continuing their, education 
along special lines, one graduate of 
the engineering college having de
cided to enter the ministry, while sev
eral others have chosen a course in 
law.
Nearly fifty per cent of tho 125 wo
men graduates this year have been 
placed in positions as teachers, ac
cording to the report from tho di
vision of the bureau in charge wo
mens placement of the demands for 
teachers, the largest number of calls 
were for teachers of home economics 
and of normal andapplied, art. More 
. .demands were received than could be 
Milled for those two classes of teachthe Sophomores point of view.
Henceforth it will be a common 
'sight" to see plebes praying to the 
Senior fence; solos and duets w'ill be 
in vogue. Many will adopt waste pa
per baskets, aprons' and odd colored 
socks as a temporary uniform. An 
Arts School plebe has already shown 
proficiency in the Harold Lloyd jig. 
Others will be enjoying peanut races 
at assemblies.
The trials will be a regular weekly 
event in Carnegie from noAv until 
Campus Week.
Bellefield Tailoring 
and Cleaning Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
The Bellefield Tailors will pay 
special attention to the stu
dents work. 
ors.
WANTF.D TWO GIRLS FOR 
Large front, second floor bedroom, 
next to bath. Fifteen minute walk 
from school. Private residence. 
Nicely furnished. $30.00 per month. 
Call Montrose 0395.
CHARTER THREE SPECIAL
TRAINS TO WASH JEFF
(Continued From Page One.) 
Industries Seniors, is in charge of 
this triiiThe W. and J. trip Is the 
big one this year and the alumni have 
given assurance to Murphy of their
University Restaurant
Excellent Food 
Reasonable Prices I FIRST CLASS SERVICE
Open Day and Night 
j 4605 FORBES STREET
_ nssistance. It is the only important 
O. game in the Tri-state district that day 
I i and a record crowd is expected.
! The Friday before the game a pen 
| rally will be held at noon in front of 
I j Arts school to polish off yells and 
| songs. The prospects are that both 
| I team and student body will be at top 
form for the game.
Phone Mayflower 0883.
cTVIaggie
cTVturph
Beauty'
Parlor
MARCELLING 
SHAMPOOING AND 
MANICURING
Engagement by appointment 
Sundays and Evenings.
4518 FORBES ST.
s|js SCHEMLEY
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5 AND 6
RECOMPENSE
Robert Keables Novel Sequel to "Simon Called Peter, with Monte 
Blue, Marie Prevost, John Roche, Virginia Brown Faire, John Patrick.
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7 AND 8
STOP FLIRTING
Riotous Comedy Directed by Scott Sidney who made Charleys Aunt," 
with John T. Murray, Wanda Hawley, Hallam Cooley, Ethel Shan
non, Vera Steadman, Jimmie Adams.I
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9 AND 10
"THE MYSTIC
The Unusual ln Drama and Thrills with 
Aileen Pringle and Conway Tearle.
ADDED ATTRACTION ALL WEEK
OMARA, CODY & WILFORD
Male Harmony Singers Extraordinary.
COMEDIES NEWS REELS NOVE.LTY FILMS
Plenty of Parking Space.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. OCTOBER 6, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
C PAHSO H-rAL-SNV C
PLEBES DEFEAT 
SLIPPERY ROCK
Harpster's Line Bucking Fea
tures the Freshman 
Attack
Last Saturday afternoon the fresh
men opened their season by defeating 
Slippery Rock Normal 34-6. Almost 
the entire squad made the trip, and 
Coach Anderson was able to use a 
diversity of material. After the first 
few minutes of play, there was not a 
doubt but that Carnegie would carry 
off the honors of the day. Both back: 
field and line performed wonderfully.
The Plebes gained most consistent
ly on their line plunges, which the 
Slippery Rock aggregation failed to 
top time after timeOn the defens
ive the yearlings were even more suc"cessful. It was seldom indeed that 
any of the opponents got past the 
primary defense, and the result was 
-that the Plebe backfield had very 
little tackling to do.
Slippery Rock scored their lone 
touchdown in the final quarter' when 
Whitehill caught a long forward pass 
and ran 20 yards to the goal line.
Line bucking was the feature of 
the Skibo attack and in this method 
of advance Harpster proved himseir 
ii genius. The whole freshman team 
coordinated so well that it is next to 
impossible to pick out any certain 
lew stars of the contest.
This week finds them pitted against 
Westinghou.se - Tech, a team that is 
sure to bring a strong representation. 
The game will be played+in the Bowl 
as a preliminary to the Mt. St. Marys 
contest and will give the student body
* FALL TOURNAMENT STARTS v
The reason for the sudden -Igrooming of the tennis courts is
 that the annual fall tournament *
 got under way yesterday. The af*
 fair this year is being handled *1*
 by tennis Managers Raddin, -I*
 Murphy and Mitchell. One prin*
 ciple purpose of the tourney is v
 to uncover any new material that v
 may have entered school this *!
 semester and also give the others *!
 a little fall training. The win-I*
 ner of the contest will be pre-I*
 sented with a cup, as was the
 customary reward in other years. *!
On the Plaid Screen
J. A. C. FOLLERj
Now that the Thiel game is history, and a pleasant chapter at that. 
Coach Steffen has turned his attention toward correcting some of the faulty 
out-croppings that were evidenced last Saturday, and grooming his men for 
the Mount St. Mary.'s contest of the coming week end. The excess of pen
alties which kept the Tartan score from rising even higher, is largoly at
tributed to the over-eagerness of the men. The two judgements on clipping 
proved to be the greatest set-backs, but several sentences received for hold
ing and off-side play also helped to reduce the yardage. Aside from this 
source of error, the Plaid warriors acquitted themselves very well.
St. Marys College has a large following in the Pittsburgh vicinity. 
Not much is known about the team this year except that they have a cork
ing good fullback and punter, and a pair of tackles that are hard to beat. 
Last Saturday they held the strong Georgetown outfit to a 19-13 score.
-ir Results of the drawings will be 
*:* posted on the bulletin boards * 
Ishortly, and in less than two *!- 
*1- weeks the winner Is to be an?!* 
-Inounced. *
-I* Kindly co-operate with the of!* 
-Ificials by playing off the matches 1* 
v as soon as possible. *5*
The tickets for the Pitt-Carnegie game are going fast. Our allotment is 
20,000; just double that of last season. There is no limit to the number of 
reserved seat tickets that can be sold to one person; this accounts largoly for 
the big sale. Get yours early! 
Headquarters 
for your
Collegiate Togs
------and------
Freshman 
Accessories
COLLEGE SHOP |
4618J/2 FORBES STREET
SQ.UAWK" TAYLOR
their first opportunity to view the 
Plebes in action.
The lineup:
Slippery Rock. Carnegie Frosh.
Whitehill ............L. E............... Rankin
Burnett ................L. T............. Melziner
Taylor ..................L. G............ Lovewell
Metzger .................C............... Stauffer
Ralston ................R. G.............. Morrow
Scliade ...............,R. T............... English
Mitchell ..............R. E................. Sweet
Kreuger..................Q............. Harpster
Dunn ....................L. H.... (C.) Limric
Turner ........R. H.................. Crum
Sunday ..................F............. Letzleter
Touch-downsHarpster 4. Letzleter 
Whitehill. Goals after touchdowns 
Harpster 1. SafetyStauffer. Time
of periods10 and 12 minutes.
DORM COUNCIL DRAFTS
REGULATIONS FOR TRIALS
(Continued From Page One.) 
noon, a tea was given in the Infirm
ary in the basement of Scobell Hall, 
for the freshman men on the Campus. 
This tea was given so as to enable 
the freshman to view the Infirmary', 
and many expressions of appreciation 
 were heard. As yet there have been 
no cases of sickness necessitating the 
use of the Infirmary, but it stands 
ready for use at any time.
Schenley 2834-W
I MARCELLING and 
MANICURING
I Miss K. Lohnes 319 South Craig 
| C. Schramm Near Forbes
Everybodys Doing SyC
What? Renting a tux or dress suit for that prom or 
fraternity affair. Get in the swim. Its cheaper, just as 
convenient and as satisfactory as owning your own. We 
can fit you perfectlyin a smartly styled, correctly tai
lored outfit. Everybodys doing it.
Why not YOU?
Hours 8:30-5:30.
WITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3 JENKINS ARCADE Grant 2604
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STS. 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday j 
and Saturday Evenings. Private j 
essons by appointment.
Schenley 3173. .
STUDENTS !
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS 
DRAWING OUTFITS
at special prices.
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and Printing:.
Something to Se asad Try at sac iss a Peaa at 3*75
^Parker Pens in 
Black and Gold
Larger siz.*., 3.50, $5 and $7 
Product of Parker Duofold Craftsmen
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
MENS STYLE SHOP
CONNORS &. MORRISON 
FORBES STREET 
Oakland
The coupon appearing on this page is to be filled in and either sent, or 
presented at Buddy Overends office. Those intending to make the trip 
on the special should also signify by this means. Seventy-live people will 
join the crowd-at Canton and one hundred and fifty at Youngstown. The 
ticket sale at South Bend has been progressing rapidly, and as many have 
been bought as were bought at this time last year for the Nebraska contest. 
The Notre Dame rooters insist that the Kilty band be brought With the 
team, and it is very probable that they will.
Last Friday afternoon the Freshman football squad elected Chet. Limeric 
as their leader for the coming season. Chet played last year with the 
Akron North High team, and is as speedy a halfback as they make them. 
It is of general opinion that the Pelbes have made a wise choice in the 
conferring of this honor.
FOR NOTRE DAM E-CARNEGIE TICKETS :l;
CLARENCE OVEREND. -jGraduate Manager of Athletics,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, .J.
Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa. *:
YCheck .t.
Enclosed find Cash to amount of $....:..................................... .j.
Money Order y
xFor........................................................Reserved Seats at $2.50 each50c Awith Student Ticket.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY AT SOUTH BEND, IND. X
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 14, 1925 
I enclose self-addressed, stamped envelope for return of tickets. j
Name ..................................................... *t*Y
School ........................................................................ Class.............................
Street Address.......................................................... City............... ..........
(Please Print Name and Address) X
BOXING CLASS TO 
START WORK SOON
LACROSSE It'AM TO BE j CROSS-COUNTRY TO 
ORGANIZED IN SPRING HAVE GOOD SEASON
Purl Anderson, Tartan Grid 
Star, is Engaged as 
Instructor
THIEL UNABLE TO HOLD
PLAID; SCORE IS 27-7
(Continued From Page One.) 
made their only offensive play that 
gained any ground. Vassia was good 
for five yards and Mac Ter picked up 
four yards through center. On the 
next play Thiel made their only first 
down of the game when Mac Ter lilt 
the center oi the line for the neces
sary yardage. .This ended the third 
period.
There was no scoring during the 
final quarter. Biolski was substituted 
for Cowan, Harmon replaced Wertenberger, Vogt went in for Goodwin, 
and when Kristof'had his ankle hurt, 
Powerie took Ills place. About the 
middle of the last period McClelland 
replaced Beede at full back Carnegie 
then started 011 another drive with 
McClelland carrying-the-ball through 
the line in most of the plays The 
game;ended with the ball on the three 
yard line before it could be punched 
over.
From last years opening game line
up, Mamby, Cass and Yoder are the 
only men on the line playing the same 
positions this year. Kristof has been 
shifted to Ilables position at right 
end. Purl Anderson has been replac
ed by Cowan, a member of last year's 
Plebe team, Myers Is  filling the right 
guard position made vacant by the 
shifting of Kristof, and Goodwin has 
received the asslgnufenl at left end 
where Mefort performed last year. In 
the back field Basthln. Wertonberger, 
and Beede are still at their old stand. 
The vacancy ieCt when Captain New
man graduated has been filled by 
Donahue.
The work of the'whole' team was 
very good. The performance of the 
new men was all that could he expect
ed. One pleasing thlug was the show
ing of the substitutes, especially that 
of McClelland. The backfield is a new 
position to him, having played 011 an 
end with the Plebes last fall, but if 
he continues to show Improvement, 
he will be a big help in the harder 
games to come;
Offside play, holding, and one or 
two fumhlos marred the playing, but. 
this will be ironed out before wo 
reach Little Washington and the 
Stadium.
The line-up: 
Tech27. Thiel7.
Goodwin ...........L, E......... Nickerson
Myers ................L. T................ Curtis
Cowan ................I.. G........... Phillips
Manby ...................C..................... Alien
Last Thursday a boxing class was 
organized by a group of interested 
Carnegie students who have boon ask
ing for boxing tutelage for some time. 
The days for the respective classes 
have as yet not been deiinately chos
en. Nevertheless, to all indications, 
the men will meet daily at four-thirty.
The class was very fortunate in se
curing the services of Purl Anderson. 
Carnegie football star, as instructor. 
Puri is recognized as the best ama
teur boxer attending Carnegie.
Fifty spirited lads confossed their 
interest in forming a boxing class, 
but .by some mishap or other, only 
an odd seventeen;, attonded. the first 
meeting. It is expected that many 
more will join soon.
Members of the class will bo ex 
cused from Physical Training. This 
will enable those students who would 
not have time to attend both, to at
tend the oue to their liking. The 
swimming pool will also be open to 
the boxers three days of the weok.
Full . equipment, consisting of 
gloves, ropes, punching bags, and all 
the other paraphaualia installed in 
j the now gym, will be at the service 
of the boxing aspirants. It is the pur
pose of the organizers of the class to 
 make it as enjoyable a pastime for 
the members as possible. .
If high interest is shown their is no 
doubt but that in the near future Car 
negie will be represented In the col
legiate ling by a boxmg team. It is 
up to Carnegie students' to hasten 
this possibility by joining this boxlug class and making it a successful 
enterprise. All those Interested, and 
who have not joined the class, may 
do so by seeing Dr, IDsquerre at the 
Gym.
Those who attended the llrBt moot. 
! Jn< Included 1-1. E. , Dietrich, I'. R. 
j Paullck. DC. Campbell, L HupI pert, Chas. Gronauer, I). C. Marsh, 
1.1. Kuhnel, Ralph Overholt, Harold 
j Hughes, Albort J. Wort, Win, lil 
| Sturm, II II. Russell, I*. A. Estep 
Lorenzi Bruno, A. F. Fink, Wlttman, 
Pinsker.
Due to the fact that there is 110 
good baseball field in the immediate 
rieinty, a plan is progressing to sup
plant. the national pastime with hu 
xoss. Last season, Schenley Oval 
was used as a training field and the 
home games were played' on the 
Brushton grounds. This arrangement 
was so unhandy that officials have 
decided to abandon baseball until a 
Carnegie tie Id Is created. The hollow 
adjacent to the football field is being 
seriously considered, and it is very 
possible that the grounds will be 
completed on that location as early 
as the 1926 season.
Lacrosse was invented and devel
oped by the American Indian, and is 
a major sport in nearly every eastern 
college. The game is exceedingly 
rough, and makes football look like 
a croquet match, for excitement.
Early in the spring, at the closo of 
the basketball season, a call will be 
made, principally to find out how 
many men liaye played the game ,or 
would be interested in trying out for 
the team. "Buddy Overend has a 
man lined up who will coach the 
squad, and everything depends on the 
Interest shown by the students.
Lacrosse is played 011 a footbal! 
field, and the Bowl will harbor Lho 
home games. The team will probably 
be managed by the staff,which acted 
in the same capacity for the baseball 
squad of last season.
SCOLARSHIP CUP
WON BY DELTA MU
(Continued From Page One )
Scobeil Hall .....................................,1.30
Henderson Hall ...............................3.32
McGill Hall ....................'...............8.35
Welch Hall .......................................3.23
Cass ....................It. 0. J. Jamison (C.)
I Voilor .................R. T............... Winter
j Kristof ...............It. 10.............. Dufford
' Bastion ..............Q. B............... Matoor
Donohoe .............L. II.....................Douds
Wertonberger It.-11.......... Zundel
Beodo .................P. B_________ Vasset
iScore by periods:
Carnegie . H 7 027
Thiol ..............................7 0 tl 07
SubstitutionsFor Carnegie, Biol
ski for Cowan, Harmon for Wortnnborgor, Vogt for Goodwin, Powerie 
for Kristof. For Thiel, Groth for 
Westln, Goodwin for Curtis, McClel
land for Beede.
TouchdownsZundol, Beodo 3, Bas
tion I.
Goals from touchdown -Bastlan 3 
(placement): Matoor 1 (placement) 
OfficialsJ. P. Egan, Duquonno, 
referee; 11. .1. Blum, Iron City, um
pire; 1'. .1. McFarland, Wash-JofC, 
head linesman.
PX|bsDDXY so d|XbU;D dssyi;YY Vng;G
NameAgeWeightHeightPrep or High SchoolHome TownPosition
E. S. Allen.................... 211846'Youngwood High........
1). C. Crum.................... 211725' 11"Conemaugh High........
.1 A. English..............201786' 1"Ensley High..................Birmingham, Ala........ .Tackle
S. R. Meel/.iner..........2 U2326' 1". .Tackle
R. A. Young.................. 192156'Wells ville High...........WellHvllle. Ohio......... .Tackle
L. T. Anderson..........201806'Port Allegheny I-Afeli..Port Allegheny. Pa..... ..Pullback
. 18118G'Akron High.................Akron, Ohio................. .Quarterback
A. G. Sweet.................18ISO5' 8"McKees Rocks I-Iigli...McKees Rocks, Pa.... . End
G. C. Camp.................191705' 9"Allogheny High..........Glen Osborn, Pa.......... .Guard
A. H. DeVos................191535' 9"Abbott Academy.........McDonald, Pa................End
A. J. Glaser..................1715G
E. H. Geilfus................. 201655' 7"Westinghouse High...
J. K. Kerr...................... 191495' 8"Allegheny High........... ..End
J. Letzelter............... IS1685' 9"Martins Ferry Migli..Martins Ferry, Ohio... .Fullback
D. J. Lovewell............181845' 11"Scott High...................
Chet Limeric (Capt.).191485' 10"Akron Nortli High.. ... Akron, Ohio................ .Halfback
W. V. Morrow............... 221845' 10"Bellefonte Academy..
R. L. Rankin................191736' 2"McKean High............... .End
fl. J. Reisinger............211936' 1"York High....................York, Pa........................ .Tackle
J. C. Stauffer..............201585' 8"..Center
H. S. Young...............191706' 3"Wilkinsburg High....Wilkinsburg, Pa.........
C. T. Walker................231806' 2"Westinghouse High.... Pittsburgh.................... ..Tackle
M. A. Ondreyco..........IS1305' 6"Glassport High............Glassport, Pa.............. .Quarterback
G. H. Milne.................991685' 5"Greely High..................Grand S.. Neb.............. Halfback
S. P. Crago..................... 191556'Wilkinsburg High....Wilkinsburg, Pa........... End
J. W. Luoma................21150 .5' 6"Monessen High...............Halfback
W. H. Lea...................92185 ,6'Knox City High..........Knox City, Tex............ .Tackle
Varsity Training Hard For 
Big MeetsPlebes to Have 
Good Schedule
Conscience ticks Them
The man who Is conscious of crime 
becomes a coward.Menander
LtUXEMBIEOMB
CLOTHES FOR TUB COLLEGI! MAN
The FLY-FRONT COAT
ARY.E shouldered, eny
hangingtheir conNervatirim 
proclaim fholr tnnrtnes.i.
Cut in light weight and winter 
weight woolen in pattern?) 
approved by college men.
LE BUX-D
X.H LUXENBERG  imo
37 UNION SQUARE
Showing at Hotol 
Schonley Today.
Our tylr memo, book ont iter, on rr<|iirt
With, ten days of strenuous road 
work safely tucked away, the forty 
odd members of the Varsity and 
Plebe cross-country teams' are now 
rounding into shapo. Guy Ilalferty, 
when intorviowod last, soomod opti
mistic concerning this year's schedule 
but predicted a good season, barring 
accidents, and is looking forward to 
fine development of Ins harriers.
Capt. Peck. Lustenbergor, Wendlandt, Ewing, and Himes, togotlior 
with Hobe and Sponsellor of last 
year's Plebe team, will be the nucleus 
around which the coach will build his 
team. McNair, who was in Carnegie 
last year but was unable to perform 
on account of illness, has reported 
this fall, and is making a strong bid 
for a varsity berth. He hails from 
South Hills High where ho wns acclaimod a good runner. McKinney is 
also being counted 011 heavily. A trip 
to Geneva College is being arranged.
The complete roster of the men 
now out for the varsity: Capt. Pock, 
Bead, Davis, Doible, Ewing, Fry, Gra
ham, Heines, TIlll, Hobo, Jacobs, Mc
Nair, Lustenberger, Paul, Power, Reu
ben, Rabhiovltz, Salkln, Seaman, 
Schneidor,, Sponsellor, Tower, Vick
ers, West, Wendlandt, McKinney.
The Freshman squad is composed 
of ambitious boys from various sec
tions of the country. Murdock, of 
Allegheny High, and Haven, of Lake
wood, Ohio, are two men who have 
boo going well, and much can bo 
oxpocted from them in the near fu
ture. Many others are working out 
dally and more candidates aro needed; 
Manager Eddie Wright, of the varsity 
Is fixing up a schedule for the Plebes, 
which will probably Include Pa. R. R. 
(practice moot), Sacred Heart High, 
Pit 1; Frosh, and S'hadyslde Acado'my.
Those men now out for the squad 
are: Allison, Bodycomhe, Cummings, 
Follor, Fox, Haven, Llnkorl, Murdock, 
Smith, Snyder, Vance, Wonmor, Folui, 
R. O. Wilson, It. T. Wilson. Marquardt and Campbell.
Many people are wine on radio mat
ter, yet do not know why tholr foun
tain pen leaks," or that they can 
purohnm; one that will give entire 
'.intlnfactlon at the Jenkins Arcade 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
^yfie largest selling 
quality pencil 
. in the world
Superlatives in quality 
the world-famousENUSPENCILS
Buy
dozen
>r.Ivc best' service and 
longest wear.
PI11I11 ondi, per dor. $ 1.00 
It ubbcr uiuIh, per dot. 1.20
wit till <lntilert g
Amerlcnn Lend Pencil Co. 
20 Fifth Ave., N.Y.
The Slickest Coat on the Campus!
S-ticfe/l
No well dressed college man in 
without one. Its the original, 
corrcct slickor and thcrcsnothing as smart or sensible for 
rough weather and chilly days.
Made of famous yellow water
proof oiled fabric. Has allround strap oil collar and elas
tic at wrist-bands.
Clasp-closing style 
Button-closingstylc 
Stamp the correct name inyour 
memory, and buy no other.
The Standard Student is 
made only by the Standard 
Oiled Clothing Co., N. Y. C.
Slip one on at
ALL GOOD DEALERS
Phone Schenley 1070Open Evenings By Appointment
Oj TJEWJL
BEAUTY PARLOR 
Hair Dressing and Hair Goods Face and Scalp Treatments
MARCELLING
119 BOUQUET STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
Special emphasis on Marcel.
Tlhf College Corner
SCHOOL SUPPLIES CANDY SODA (
LUNCHONETTE
-UX NsYYXmX PU;|;t7
RUSSELL T. BOUCH, Proprietor 
3900 FIFTH AVENUE, CORNER BOUQUET STREET 
Phone Schenley 2212 PITTSBURGH, PA.
r PAIRS of PURE <M 
J SILK HOSIERY >1
($10.00 Value)
A few minutes time and very lit
tle effortjust to help us adver
tise our Thread Silk Hosiery, 
and we make you the above of
fer. Very simple plan. Do your 
friends a good turn by Introduc
ing the Doll to plan to thorn. 
Write today for details of the 
plan that saves money on guar
anteed Pure Thread Silk Full 
Fashioned Hose.
DELITE SALES GO.
Mina Gladys Reynoldo 
Practice House, Woodlawn Ave.
807 Standard Life Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS I  PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 
FOR RENT FROM OCT. 1-MAY 1 
Seven-room apartment, complete
ly and beautifully furnished. Su'table for two couple or four adults. 
Located at 6412 Aylesboro avenue. 
Ten minute walkfrom school. Rent 
$150 per month. Call Schenley 4107.
See the
IMPROVED MODELS
Burgwin-Herron Motor Co.
(OAKLAND) 3919-23 FORBES STREET 
Schenley 5580 
Also Used Speedsters, Roadsters, Tourings, etc., 
$40 up
USED SPEEDSTERS, ROADSTERS, TOURINGS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 6t 1925
sign of
a Lifetime
Waking, the schools
Price, $8.75 Students special, $7.50 Othei's lower* 
Lifetime Titan oversize pencil to match, $4.25 
Sheaffer Skmpsucctssov to inkmakes all pens write better
QHEAFFERSPENS - PENCILS  SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY
FORT MADISON. IOWA
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
LESLIE P. BEEBE
THE FRENCH DEBT FUNDING 
COMMISSION
To those who have been so fortunate an to re
ceive a bidthe Tartan extend it heartiest con
gratulation. To be thuH invited into a fraternity 
U a distinct honor; it peak the highest praie 
of a man's character and personality.
'The coming weeks will tell whether the elec
tions of the fraternities were merited. Sonic 
pledges will prove unworthy, the majority will 
make good.
Much adaptable material in till un<licovercrl. 
Perhaps Horne men who hnve been totally over
looked in tin; excited rushing program possess 
much greater potentialities than you who now 
wear a pledge botton. But the outstanding in
dividual of the mo,ment have been called and arc 
now in an enviable position.
The new pledges must bear in mind, however, 
that the fraternity i but a means to .'in end, not 
the end itself. Many a man ha achieved this 
initial kuccchh only to become 0 inllated by hi 
own importance that he never discover the fra
ternity i not an escalator, but merely a stairway 
with himself swaggering unnoticed on the bottom 
step.
So we congratulate you, but with a word of 
caution-your fortune is the reult of. a hazarded 
discrimination and only through your own ef
forts can it be made to yield up dividends.
THE HIGHER CULTURE
What has happened to our upperclassmen ? Are 
they becoming too proud to cavort upon the turll 
of the. football field between halves? In the past 
it was always the upperclassmen who rushed out 
first to lead the snake about the field and the 
Plebcs fell in behind to thrill in the new found 
unity of enthusiasm.
But now the Plebcs are herded out like so 
many sheep while upperclassmen slide over to 
take their more desireably located seats. And 
to add insult to this injury, the Plebcs are per
mitted to mutter Carnegie, Carnegie by way 
of keeping time as they march dazedly about.
The spectacle last Saturday was not edifying, 
and the fact that the C was drawn up back
wards, or else purposely inverted, did not en
hance the meagre demonstration. With no up
perclassmen to lead, the cheers met a sad fate.
Tf this stoicism of the upperclassmen, this ungentlemanly usurpation of the Freshmens seats 
by the same group, the carelessness or effrontery 
of reversing the CM with respect to the visitors 
stands, constitute Carnegie spirit, then let us 
have no more of it.
ARE YOU TOO LAZY?
If a man has a religion lie should practice it. 
If lie has been brought up in the faith of some 
denomination, and if it means anything to him 
he should take an active part in its services.
Churches offer intellectual along with spiritual 
mlvantage. They enable one to become acquaint 
ed with others of his failh, to take part in the 
social activities of the college clubs maintained, 
and to preserve the belief that is his. Then there 
is something in religion that cxliilirnl.es the spirit 
and rctoncs the mind. II is not an enemy of 
science, nor a worn out idea far behind the mod 
i*ii age, but if is something in which the individ
ual should feel fluit he can benefit himself.
The habits of college often drift along info 
life, and if is hardly fair if one has n religion, 
that so early in life the liab.il of attending church 
should bo,cast aside, All the denominations are 
listed in the Handbook, and nearly all the 
churches are holding receptions at this time for 
those of their faith, With I his opportunity every 
person who desire to practice his religion active
ly by going to church may do so,
FRATERNITY RUSHING RULES
Now that the fraternity rushing season is over 
nnd the greater percentage of our naive and gul
lible Plebcs are proudly wearing the pins of the 
organizations that were first to offer them bids, 
the time seems right to appraise the new rushing 
rules as suggested to the Interfraternify Council 
bv a special committee of the executive board of 
<\ I. T.
i The changes as recommended are drastic. If 
the new rules are adopted, rushing next year 
will begin after mid-semester examinations of the 
first semester and Freshmen will not be allowed 
to live in fraternity houses during the first semes
ter. In 1927-1928 rushing will not lake place 
until after the mid-semester examinations of the 
second semester and Freshmen will not be per
mitted to live in. fraternity houses during their 
first; year.
The recommendation reads in part, that, under 
the present system: The College is harmed to 
the extent that fraternity life is a con tributary 
cause toward the withdrawals and failures of too 
many first year men ; that fraternities * * * are 
forced to select their pledges in too hurried a 
fashion; approximately a third of the Freshman 
class is subjected to a system that diverts the 
attention and monopolizes much time that should 
be devoted to scholastic work. The Inter frater
nity Council has frequently discussed the advisa
bility of changing the rushing regulations, hop
ing to do away with the three weeks of inten
sive rushing, in favor of more delayed periods 
of pledging and rushing. This recommendation, 
then, seems to point the way out of an unsat is 
factory situation.
In all fairness to the first year men, a measure 
should be enforced that, in spirit and in letter, 
will carry out this recommendation of the lOxecu 
live Board. The fraternity situation cannot bo 
carefully and accurately calculated by a,.Plebe in 
a few weeks. Heavy rushing fees and a super 
lie.ial good conduct; may easily place a halo upon 
fraternity conditions on the campus, With a 
semester in which to judge and appraise for him
self, without pressure, and under normal condi
tions, no one can doubt but; that a Freshman will 
make his choice freer of sentiment and less irra
tionally. Many first year men withdraw from 
school because of an unhappy fraternity choice 
which was motivated by distracting pressure 
brought to bear during their first few weeks in 
school.
LETS THINK FIRST
Recent tricklings from the Administration 
Cauldron indicate that the activities point sys
tem, consigned several years ago to the tile for
HERES LOOKING AT YOUEDITORIAL PAGE
. two hundred or three hundred mem
bers. Then with the highest of en
trance standards, a type of leader 
would be dlsloged that would help 
our democracy to grow and prosper i 
along the highest and most prosper
ous lines.
The salaries of the professors in 
such an institution would vary from 
$30,000 to $50,000. Salaries such as 
these would draw to the university, 
men who naturally belong in the uni
versity environment. The greatest 
minds of the day and generation 
would then be in free possession of 
the public to an extent, that would 
work for the betterment of all con
cernedSuch an university would not be
organized and commended by oneman. Each craftsman engaged upon 
the task must envisage the whole. 
These men, through experience,- 
would find their way to the largest 
self government.
The larger significance of a group 
of such universities as we have de
scribed is perfectly evident. They 
would take their rightful share of the 
best mentality of the nation out of 
the strife of competative business and 
devote it, free and strong, to the 
various cultural disciplines. So we? 
might be able to elevate learning and 
art from being the mere servants of 
business enterprise to their natural 
place as the goal of human achieve
ment.
DisillusionmentI $50,000 For Professors, Is Plea of Frank Bohn
j "We are wilfully destroying the 
j very foundations of high education," 
is the opinion Frank Bohn voiced in 
a recent issue of The Forum. This
outburst is caused by the part that 
starvation wages are being paid to 
j nearly all members of the teaching 
profession in this country, where edu
cation is one of our most cherished 
institutions.
The New York Times calculates 
that ail of the gifts for high educa
tion and research during the last de
cade amount to a total of $2,500,000,- 
000. Verily the mountain has labored 
and brought forth a mouse. However 
most of thlp money is being spent for 
more building#, more students, and 
more * teachers, and not for better 
teaching by teachers who are paid 
sufficient salaries and allowed time 
for study and leisure.
The French Debt Funding Commis
sion has gone hack to Paris without 
having solved the problem of the 
debts. Proposals and counter propos
als were offered but to no avail. A 
tentative program was agreed upon 
and M. Caillaux ha promised to try 
to get It. ratified, By this agreement 
France is to pay the United States a 
sum of -540,000,000 a year1 for the next 
flve years with tho hope that perma
nent proposals can be drawn up and 
acted upon favorably within that 
time. This amount is to be applied 
on the yearly interest bill, amounting 
to about 1% per year. While M. CaillauJc had tho powor to sign tho final 
treaty, he felt that his authority did 
not extend to u tomporary agreement.
The hitch that brought the Confer
ence to a close, was tho last proposal 
of the French in which they demand
ed a Security Clause, along with the 
question of tho amount This clause 
would provide for a 'consideration of 
a postponement, of payment at any
time that a honalldo disaster should 
occur in tho French ooonomlc situa^- 
lion. Along with this was tho pro
posal to pay $*10,000,000 a year for 
live years; $00,000,000 for seven 
year; and $100(000,000 for 55 years, 
j This would total, with Interest $dHSo.- 
! 000,000.
The memorandum that Sec. Mellon 
gave to the French, proposed a 62 
year settlement^ based on the lump 
sum if $4,026,000,000 with interest ac 
Vz of 1 r/tf for tho first year and then 
gradually increasing on a graduted 
scale to 3^% the 13th year where it 
is to remain the rest of the period. 
This total sum represents /a loss of 
920,000,000 to the Government in 
interest..
j It is to be wondered whether Cail
laux expected to'settle the debt probj lem on his trip here or whether it 
j was a mere sop. France can say to 
jthe world now that she acted in good 
I faith and tried to pay but the Amen! cans were far too exactingIt is 
j known that the French peopledo not 
believe that they should pay their 
j debt to us. They feel that their part 
has been paid for, out of devasted 
property and the great loss of men. 
The American people, on the other 
hand, believe that all debts contract
ed should he paid for and any attempt 
at the cancellation would be a very, 
bad precedent. These two views are 
| at the opposite ends of the poles and 
either the American people must 
change their point of view or are 
willing to compromise, or the French 
can he persuaded that their attitude 
is wrong, before any possible propo
sal becomes anything but a deadlock 
and what is more any decision that 
either M, Caillaux or Mr. Mellon could 
find to agree upon would be useless, 
j since their const ituencos would not 
hack them up.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
YES WE ARE COLLEGIATE
  Carnegie Downs Thiel to the Tune of Colle
giate! is a plausible headline to expect in this 
age of grotesque fads. A spirit of Collegiatism" has swept over this country and brought 
forth a harvest of wierd costumes, mannerisms 
and solecisms.
England has contributed her share with thirty 
inch bottoms and baggy coats. From the de
spised Negro has come the Charleston, and every
thing strange and exotic has been drafted to 
sate tho demand for the bizarre,
Vet is hardly seems just to term such out
landish taste Collegiate. The college man usu
ally dresses with dignity and cure. Merely be
cause he can usually afford to dress well, and 
consequently stands apart from the multitude, is 
no excuse for dubbing 'very curious apparition 
in flopping clothes Collegiate.
On tin' Homer Smith. Greater Pittsburghs pop
ular excursion boat, the sign appears: No Col
legiate Dancing Allowed. And Avhat, may we 
ask, is Collegite Dancing? This smacks of a 
direct thrust at the very decency of the college 
man.
Not even an ignorant Freshman would appear 
on the Campus in Kollege lvut clothes, nor would 
he dare to dance improperly at any school func
tion. Tluv college man, by the very advantage of 
his training, is essentially sober and well be
haved. \ et lie must suffer under a wave of prop
aganda emanating from haberdashers, dance hall 
proprietors, and scenario writers.
puerile and still-born rules and regulations, may 
be granted a new trial.
In. essencein theory, to be more exact-the 
system is as followsextra curricular activities 
are rated in points per semester, the time that the 
average man supposedly devotes to the vari
ous organizations, being the vital factor in appor
tionment of points. Each student must have a 
certain number of points for graduation. A max
imum number per semester is established limiting 
the student to two or three major activities, un
less he secures special privileges from the com
mittee in charge.
The point system is built; around the aver
age student. This expression is meaningless in 
its present Usage. There is no such being in the 
field. Activities men range from enthusiasts to 
nincompoops. There is every degree of variation. 
Application of a standard in such a case can re
sult only in injustice and lack of uniform rating.
Moreover the standards arc arbitrarily estab
lished. There is no experimental or statistical 
basis for the apportionment of points to various 
activities and positions. IDrror of judgment is inavoidable.
The most prominent men on the campus would 
avoid affiliation with Departmental Clubs and 
other minor organizations in order to stay with
in the point limit. Those student groupwhich 
in truth are the very backbone of student co
operation, the source of school spirit, the groups 
fluit co-ordinate the great, body of non-activities 
menwould thereby lose their nuclei.
No affompt is made here to point out the ben
efits of the system, It, is merely shown to be 
slip-shod, unwieldy and erroneous. It; would con
stitute an expensive and laborious experiment, 
and should be very thoroughly analyzed before 
any steps are taken toward its inauguration.
THOSE SENIORS
Distinctive Senior dress is being steadfastly 
disregarded this year in the mad pursuit; of em
bryo Creeks, Vet if is a problem which must be 
faced in the very near future.
Does the Senior want to stand apart? And if 
so, how does lie wish to indicate his individuality?
The Plobc is a marked individual. Without a 
dink he could be recognized by his very green
ness. Few Seniors, on the other hand, have ac
quired the poise and dignity which is tradition
ally theirs. Is the weight of the Seniors position 
sufficient to warranf the adoption of any freak 
attire to indicate the wearers rank?
Senior hats appeared two years ago. These 
were very nice for rainy weather. But we want 
something it, would be a privilege to wear, not an 
onus. For instance, a cane.
Canes are quite reasonable in price and really 
handsome. A nice French briar topped by a 
knurled handle together with a pair of light fawn 
gloves would undoubtedly place our Seniors in 
a class by themselves.
They would not have to wear these every day, 
just, say, on Tuesdays and Fridays.
How about it?
We, in America, can never have a J 
sound national leadership, either in | 
our public life or the advancement of! 
learning and the arts, until that lead-! 
ersllip centers in and radiates from | 
our universities. In this democracy j 
the voting mass must be enabled tn | 
discover a leadership which is above I 
the customary vulgarities and which j 
naturally devotes itself to the public 
service, and not to a private gain. It! 
is necessary that our universities train ! 
for such leadership.
Our universities have failed to live 
up to the highest hopes of the states
men who established them. We build 
them greater only with sticks and 
stonesCourses in poultry husbandry 
and commercial advertising are being 
substituted for companionship with 
the great as the source of all intel
lectual growth.
But how are we to combat this 
seeming laxity in proper education? 
The first step does not lie necessarily 
in the direction of accumulating 
greater funds. . It might begin, in 
most cases, with the restriction of 
numbers, Quality should replace 
quantity. Most university students 
should never have left prep school. 
The best solution, then, to the prob
lem is to have a group of professional 
schools restricted to a hundred, or at 
most two hundred in number. These 
would include law, medicine, educa
tion, public administration, and the 
beaux arts. Engineering schools 
should have special foundations apart 
from the above.
The student body of these univer
sities would total from 1,200 to -1,500. 
The faculty would require at least
CRAIG RESTAURANT
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
CHART E SPIEA ELN AO TW-OJETALW IFFLWLIMWVea
Remington
Portable
Z^NE professor makes this remark, and countless others are saying 
the same thing. They know the value of a typewriter as a timesaver, as a means of compiling data, and as a help in the expres 
sion of thought. Then too, it frees the prof from that tedious 
task of deciphering longhand, and keeps him in perfect reading 
humor. And perfect reading humor tends to mean better marks.
The New Remington Portable is the lightest and most portable 
Portable with 4-row standard keyboard; it is the most compact 
Portable; it has the longest writing line of any Portable; it accom
modates full width paper and long ehvelopcs; it has the finest 
touch and action; it does beautiful work; its durability has been 
proved; and all the writing is always visible.
Call in, see the machine, and let us explain our easy payment plan.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER CO.
102 SIXTH STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
404 PGH. LIFE 
BUILDING 
Grant 1893 
Res. Phone 
Westv;vew 1659-R
Y7; 2E7T sWTN||VT jVOJ NOv s7eeFrVJ RTES
Nj Tj V-HRd-l 390B ds|iXb Vyj
cPricc, complete 
with ease, $60
For Sale by SIMS DRUG COMPANY
FORBES AND MURRAY AVES, SQUIRREL HILL
Green, jade-reen, with the white dot at the 
non-working end, is the pen of the hour in the 
American school. Not only because it is built 
of indestructible radite, a new and handsome 
jewel-like material, and has a nib that is guar
anteed for a lifetime, but most emphatically 
because it is an infallible performer, are students 
everywhere aroused to its need. At better stores.
