Enter the Tartan's 
Football Contest.
Fill in Coupon on Page 5TVCARNEGIE
Back Your Team!
Plan to Attend W&J Game 
Read About Excursion, 
Page 6
YOL. 43No. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PATUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949
Successful 
Sorority Rush 
Concluded
More Than One-Half 
Of Eligible Women 
Receive Bids To Pledge
Three weeks of teas, parties, 
and luncheon dates were cul
minated on Monday, October 19 
when 57 per cent of the 122 eligi
ble sophomore women filed pref
erential ballots for sororities. Over 
90 per cent of these women re
ceived bids on October 18.
First, second, and third-choice 
ballots were filed. Results indicate 
that 95 per cent received bids 
from sororities of their first 
choice, and the remaining 5 per 
cent received bids from second 
choice sororities.
Rushing Limit Set
According to Panhellenic coun
cil rules, no sorority may pledge 
more than 17 women this year. No 
sorority, however, reached this 
quota nor the semester quota fixed 
by each sorority.
All women who received bids 
accepted them. The following 
pledged:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Eleanor
Doniger, Barbara Eisenberg, Mar
ian Fischman, Lyno Gasche, 
Seima Horvitz, Joan Ochs, Lois 
Pollock, Lois Smit, Sylka Stein
berg, Rita Zewig.
Chi Omega: Sally Bechman,
Lois Chinnock, Ann Cobbe, Betty 
Ann Culp, Carolyn Fry, Laura 
Greene, Sue McFadden, Charlotte 
Merriman, Janice Nelson, Ann 
Nicholas, Vonelle Reppeto, Patri
cia Saibel, Nancy Sitler.
Delta Delta Delta: Beverly Artman, Geraldine Eisenhuth, Marion 
Hibbard, Sally Johnston, Barbara 
Laity, Marilyn Oesterling, Patricia 
Points, Nancy Wootton.
Delta Gamma: Jeanne Button, 
Shirley Cunningham, Adrienne 
Fahle, Suzanne Gillen, Joanne 
Grand-Girard, Mary ~.ou Metcalf, 
Louise Randall, Joan Robison, 
Estelle Roofner.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Gertrude 
Albright, Patricia Allen, Nancy 
Davis, Mary Deneen, Nancy Met
calf, Barbara Rautenberg, Kath
ryn Snure, Elaine Stevenson, Bar
bara Yates.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Betty 
[Continued on page 12]
Letter Asks 
Students To Use 
Common Sense
In the past, Carnegie Tech 
students have conducted them
selves to as to bring no dis
grace upon themselves or the 
school because of unsportsman
like conduct.
There have been instances 
. however, where schools have 
gone so far as to sever athletic 
relations, not as a result of the 
actions of the teams involved, 
but because of the conduct of 
irresponsible groups within the 
student bodies.
These groups have visited the 
rival school prior to the game 
and have done permanent dam
age to the buildings and school 
property. We'do not feel that 
such action contributes any
thing towards a victory, and 
that this time could be better 
spent in the constructive sup
port of the team.
Regardless of what the activ
ities of other schools may be, 
let, us keep our school spirit 
high but our actions on a con
structive rather than a destruc
tive basis.
Student Council.
37 Freshmen Seek Office 
In Next Tuesdays Election
Class of ?53 Election Notice
Elections for officers of the class of 1953 will take place on 
Tuesday, November 1.
Polls will be open from 11:50 to 1:15 p. m. at Skibo for all 
colleges, at MMCC for Margaret Morrison students, at Fine Arts 
for FA students, and in Administration Hall for E&S students. 
No campaigning is allowed within 100 feet of the polling area.
Only members of the class of 1953 may vote as well as 
architects of the class of 54. Each voter is permitted to cast his 
ballot only for a vice-president from his own college. President, 
secretary, and treasurer are elected by the whole class.
Any five or more candidates may appoint in writing one per
son to serve as challenger and watcher at each polling place, but 
no candidate shall share in the appointment of more than one 
such person per poll.
Certified candidates for each office are as follows: President: 
Joseph Gill, Robert McKie, James Blakely, Russell Fero, C. 
Frederick Sonnenberg, Gaylord Paddock, James McCune, Gilbert 
Dissen; Secretary: Joan Wilhelm, Richard Woods, Marjorie Otterman; Treasurer: Samuel Palmer, Pete Sherman, Joan Greene, 
Calvin Smith.
Vice-President, E&S: Richard Roman, James .Gardner,
Richard Gilson, Walter Poe, William Mannel, Robert Weddell, 
Philip Eckman; Vice-President, Fine Arts: Norma Trust, Daniel 
Loreski, Elmer Metzger, Alfred DeVido, Julie Cosentino, Annabelle Sachs, Michael Popowliak; Vice-President, MMCC: Beatrice 
Cohen, Celestine Gilmore, Margaret Figner, Wanda Richmond, 
Louanne Barberie, Harriet Treon.
Student Council Elections Chairman.
Robert Horsch,
Carnegie Day Opens Weekend 
Of Homecoming Celebrations
Freshman Queen Coronation Heads Program; 
Honoraries To Make Calls, Present Awards
by Nancy Sitler
Carnegie Day, November 11, will be the opening event of the 
Homecoming weekend. Classes will be dismissed at 11:20 a.m., and 
the program will begin immediately afterwards in the mens gym. 
Radically different, the Carnegie Day of 1949 has lost the for................... ............?mality of previous years. The proOur Error
It was erroneously stated in 
the last issue of the Tartan that 
the Homecoming open houses 
will be held on October 28, and 
29. The correct dates are No
vember 11 and 12, during 
Homecoming.
Hobart Mitchell To Present 
Second Sermon In Song Novi 1
Hobart Mitchell, New York concert baritone, will return to Car
negie ^ech on Tuesday, November 1, to present a second Sermon-inSong at the chapel service at 11:30 a. m. This program is a Harvest 
Sermon-in-Song which Mr. Mitchell has written for this Carnegie 
Tech chapel service. ?----------------------------------------------------
Sermon-in -Song, the first of 
which he presented here last 
March 1, is a synthesis of sacred 
music and the spoken word. The 
Sermon opens with a solo, after 
which the spoken text and sacred 
songs alternate in developing the 
message. The music is integrated 
into the text so that the transi
tion from speaking to singing is 
accomplished without any break in 
continuity.
The music in the Harvest Ser
mon to be given in the Tech chapel 
seivice. It begins with the 
Thanksgiving hymn, Come, Ye 
Thankful People, Come and in
cludes Now Heaven in Fullest 
Glory Shown from Haydns 
Creation. I will lift up .mine 
eyes unto the Hills set by Ed
ward E. Bennett, Lord, in Ado
ration Kneeling by Sarah C.
B a r g d o n, Praise and Give 
Thanks by Hazel Adair, and the 
spirituals Sometimes I Feel Like 
A Motherless Child and Everytime I Feel the Spirit.
Mr. Rollin V. Davies, Execu
tive Secretary of the Carnegie 
Branch of the YMCA, is in charge 
of the service.
gram, planned entirely by stu
dents, will be presented in a light
er vein in accordance with the 
Homecoming spirit.
Queen Crowned 
The highlight of the 75 minute 
program will be the crowning of 
the Freshman queen by Dr. Do
herty and Dr. Warner. The Kiltie 
band will present a concert fea
turing a symphonic arrangement 
of Deep Purple and court en
tertainment is to be provided by 
the Mens Glee club. According 
to tradition, there will also be the 
calls of the honoraries and the 
presentation of awards. Wesley 
Kenney will be the master of cere
monies. Concluding the program 
the freshman queen will officially 
open Homecoming festivities.
Under the guidance of Dr. Min
er and Professor Kirkpatrick, the 
students planning this years Car
negie Day are Charles Koester, 
chairman; Wesley Kenney, pro
gram; George Pugh, calls; A1 
Moon, awards and presentations; 
Nancy Godden and Jeanne But
ton, cornation; and Frances Rea, 
official opening gesture.
Changes Are Made 
It has been the general opinion 
that Carnegie Day was losing its 
effectiveness as an all school as
sembly because only approximate
ly one third of the students have 
been attending. A student commit
tee investigated the problem and 
decided that radical changes were 
necessary. If the new plan is suc
cessful, the school can count on 
more light-hearted Carnegie Days 
on campus in the future.
U. S. Civil Ser vice 
Announces Exams 
For Various Jobs
U. S. Civil Service commission 
has announced examinations for 
the positions of Junior Profession
al Assistant, Junior Management 
Assistant, and Junior Agricultural 
Assistant. These positions are 
open in various parts of the Unit
ed States and pay $2,974 a year.
This information is of partic
ular interest to college graduates 
and senior students, since the po
sitions to be filled are trainee po
sitions in which young people 
may begin a career in the Federal 
service in a variety of professions. 
Those with outstanding ability 
may develop into Federal admin
istrators and high-grade profes
sional workers.
To qualify in these examina
tions, competitors must pass a 
written test and, in addition, 
must have had appropriate edu
cation or experience or a com
bination of education and experi
ence.
Applications will be accepted 
from students who expect to com
plete their college courses by 
June 30, 1950. Age limits, waived 
for persons entitled to veteran 
preference, are from 18 to 35 
years.
Complete information is availa
ble at the Placement office.
Display Rules
The following rules govern
ing Homecoming displays have 
been announced.
1. The contest shall be judged 
on the basis of:
a. originality.
b. appropriateness to the 
occasion.
c. effectiveness of expres
sion.
2. All displays shall be made 
by participating groups 
with no rented material 
used.
3. The decision of the judges 
shall be final.
? Thirty -seven candidates 
have thrown their hats into 
the election ring for offices in 
the organization of the Class 
of 53.
Last week Student Council 
approved both a group of cam
paign specifications to which 
the candidates are subjected 
a blanket constitution for the or
ganization.
Campaigns for the offices have 
been limited to a one week period. 
Beginning today they must termi
nate by next Monday, October 31. 
The election will be held under 
the auspices of the election chair
man of Council and will be con
ducted by APO one week from 
today.
Campaigning Equalized
To give each candidate com
parable opportunity for cam
paigning, a list of all restrictions 
was sent to all candidates by the 
class reorganization committee. 
Besides the time specifications, the 
total cost of any campaign will 
not be permitted to exceed $10.
When the elected candidates 
take office they will have the 
blanket constitution drawn up by 
the class organization committee 
from which to work. Ample lee
way has been left for amendments 
and further provisions.
Day Students Only
Membership in the organization 
will be limited to fulltime day 
students. The powers of the or
ganization will be the same as 
those afforded to any organization 
recognized by Student Council. 
All of their actions will be sub
ject to the constitution of Council 
and the regulations of the White 
book.
The chain of authority estab
lished by the constitution is: 
first Engineering and Science, 
second Fine Arts, and third Mar
garet Morrison. This order was 
established in accordance with the 
ratio of student enrollment.
In the future all class officer 
elections will be held in the spring 
for the following school year with 
the exception of the freshman 
elections, which will necessarily 
be held in the fall.
Research Firm 
Grants $2,900 
To Carnegie
A grant of $2,900 has been giv
en to CIT by the Research Cor
poration, New York City, for the 
continuation of research in the 
field of the benzidine rearrange
ment.
The research project, which was 
started last year with a similar 
grant from the Research Corpor
ation, is under the direction of Dr. 
Robert B. Carlin, Associate Pro
fessor of Chemistry.
Preliminary experiments on the 
subject, Kinetic Studies of the 
Benzidine Rearrangement, have 
been completed according to Dr. 
Carlin, and it is hoped that fur
ther experiments will supply new 
information.
The Research Corporation, 
founded in 1912, is a non-profit 
organization devoted to advancing 
research and technology by the 
use of revenues from inventions 
assigned to it by public-spirited 
inventors.

---------------------------------------------------

TA4M*AIVTUESDAY. OCTOBER 25, 1949
Editorials
To The Class o M3
In our first editorial of the year we offered 
you a challenge. That challenge was to organize 
into the first unified class since before the war. 
The time has come to accept the challenge and 
the great. responsibility associated with it.
Student Council approved your constitution 
which officially recognizes your class as a cam
pus organization. The rest is up to you and the 
leaders you choose. It is your responsibility as 
the first class to be organized to insure the suc
cess of a plan which w'ill lead to greater un
dergraduate and graduate unity in the years 
to come.
Your first task is to elect officers for the com
ing year. The list of candidates is presented in 
this issue and it is your duty to familiarize your
self with as many of these students as you can. 
These are the men and women who will do your 
planning and whom you are expected to follow 
and aid in your organization. Make sure you 
choose the best of the candidates for your future 
this year lies with them. Above all, take enough 
interest in yourselves to vote for your officers 
next week.
Not A Chance
The Hare system of counting ballots has 
again been presented in Student Council as a 
substitute for the present method used in electing 
Council members. The controversy is not new; 
it was hashed and rehashed many times last 
year.
When the Hare system was proposed last 
spring, we gave it our support as we believed 
that it would, as it was designed, give min
ority groups a better chance of gaining rep
resentation. We still hold that opinion. How
ever, we are not as much concerned at the 
present time with minority parties as with 
the individual who has a sincere wish to join 
Council and add constructive action to its 
activities, but who is either not able to join 
a party or does not wish to do so.
Without a party this individual has the pro
verbial snowballs chance of becoming part of 
Council. We can remember two men, although 
there were probably several more, who we believe 
would have spearheaded Council into more con
structive action, that were miserably defeated at 
the polls because they had no party backing. They 
did have sufficient voting strength to be elected 
under the Hare system.
As we mentioned last week, many of the 
present Council members did not choose to 
run for election, but were run by a political 
party. Some of these councilmen are also the 
one-day-a-week type of representatives; 
yet individuals who have an earnest desire to 
be elected are defeated because our present 
system demands that a candidate muster half 
the voters to his cause. It seems unlikely an 
individual can do so without party support.
Most Councilmen will agree with us on this 
matter, but the Hare System will not be passed 
bj1 Council Wednesday. The party in control of 
Council has decided that this control can more 
easily be held with the present system. It is too 
idealistic of us to imagine that the members of 
this party who feel the Hare system is the bet
ter method for the campus as a whole, will aid 
in its enactment.
TA4S&A1\FJL am. JTWJa [ Co JL M
OFFICES Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.TELEPHONE SC. 1-4557, after nours: news, MU. 1-7017.MU 1-6312; business, EM. 1-6597 SC 1-8851.Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editar-ia-Chief ............................................... Albert F. Kimmel
Business Manager .............................................. Herbert Stone
Managing Editor ....................................... Paul V. OfTermann
Personnel Manager ...................... Robert J. Kubiak
News EditorTom Birch. Sports EditorBill Dorn. Copy EditorLloyd Dyer Makeup EditorRalph Painter. Advertising ManagerMorty Baker. Circulation Managerbud Smith. Art EditorNorman Rosfeld.Headline EditorCatherine Rudy Proof EditorJohn Braun. Assistant Business ManagerArthur G. Zuch. Personnel AssistantRay Mangold. Senior ReporterJoseph Weinreich. Chief ReportersLaura Ehni, Frances Hamboi-ky. Nancy Sitler, A1 Bader. Ckief PhotographerRichsrd Deininger Copy StaffAnalee Gelman. Mary Cauflfield. Ed Muttart, Sally Ward, Candy Kane. Features Staff Gene Feist.ReportersJo Chrisanti, Alan Botcky, Joan Blumenthai Mary Cauflfield, Nancy Sitler, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Edward Koos, Patricia Kelly, Dolores Mitchel, Shirlee Pioeger. Jane Robb. Susan Flood. Hugh Young. Cab ReportersFrank Carter, Joanne Helms, Ann Parker, Nancy Rausch. Rosemary Serafini, Fred Sonnenberg. Sports Staff Richard Barr. Bob Hahn. Charles Kink. Warren Lithgow. Fred Lunt A1 Moore, Bruce Updike. Art StaffBill Hofscher. Makeup StaffEstelle Herlick.Business StaffBob Powers. Herman P. Alexander. Dave Goldsmith Allen Selx. Ray Gorman, Bruce Padolf, Paul Bernstein. SecretaryDorothy Boarts.TypistsPatU McDermott. Wilma Dickson, Shirley Dixon.
Represented tor national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers RepresentaUve. 420 Msciison Ave. New Yorn City Subscription SI.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907. at the PO't Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1*79 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octmbei 21, 1918
IT'S UP TO THE ANCHOR MAN NOW!
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Johnson A nswers 
Claymore Clan Letter
Editor, the Tartan:
It was not my original intention to prolong 
the Current Claymore Clan issue, but I feel that 
Claymores letter in the Tartan of October 11 
should not go unanswered.
First, I should like to correct a misquotation 
by advising Messrs. Adolphsen, Parr,. and Rung 
to reread my previous letter, carefully. Nowhere 
did the letter say that Claymore Clan could re
move or even impeach anyone. As published, it 
stated that, upon Claymores recommendation 
they could be removed.
Point two of my rebuttal concerns the un
precedented power granted Claymore Clan. Here 
I invite yotar attention to the Constitution of the 
Mens Dormitory Council. Article II, section 1(b) 
of this document expressly states that Dormitory 
Council shall  . . . supervise and conduct social 
affairs and cultural affairs of the dormitories 
... The inference here seems to be that any 
service organization, such as Claymore Clan, 
would merely perform such service functions as 
operating the check room or conducting elections; 
in other words, act as an APO of the dormitories, 
and nothing more. The dictionary at my elbow 
is a 1941 issue. Perhaps in the intervening years 
the definition of unprecedented has changed, 
but that Claymore should have the power to co
ordinate, advise, and assign responsibility is cer
tainly novel.
While on the subject, dormitory council acted 
out of order when it asked the Clan to take 
charge of dorm functions. To conduct social func
tions is one of the prime purposes of dorm coun
cil. If it wont do this, why have a council at all?
Let me reaffirm my support of the general 
idea of the reorganization plan. Dorm council 
should be streamlined and streamlined soon, but 
Claymore Clan should be relegated to a strictly 
service role and not be given any opportunity to 
further its potential political aspirations. The 
worthy gentlemen of the clan may insist that they 
have no political aspirations, but I am not alone 
in my belief that their recent actions indicated 
otherwise.
Very truly yours,
Ernest E. Johnson, Jr.
E.E. 50.
Ten Years Ago 
This Month
Student council will vote on plans to abolish 
hazing and physical punishment; to substitute 
one based on friendship and incentive.
Embargo petitions will be circulated on campus 
. . . repeal of Embargo is a step toward war.
November 3, Sadie Hawkins Day . . . Men 
flee as Sadies prepare for big race.
Council promises football holiday . . . there 
will be an official holiday on the Monday follow
ing the next football game Carnegie wins.
CONCERT REVIEW T
Cavelleria 
Satisfies 
Audience
By Henri Pruszinowski
Seats were filled from corner to 
corner in the Pittsburgh Syria 
Mosque at the May Beegle open
ing concert with people who were 
pleasantly surprised. And right
ly so, for the duo performance, 
Cavalleria Rusticana and I 
Pagliacci, was indeed well done. 
Realizing that the treveling troup 
sells itself three to four times 
weekly, it is remrkable how both 
works were alive and intensely 
dramatic. To perform so earnestly 
and freshly each or at least a ma
jority of concertsdemands ar
tistic vitality well deserving of 
comment.
Cavalleria Slow
Mascagnis Cavaleria, which 
will forever be somewhat long 
and slow for one act, produced its 
ususl thrills and applause after 
both well-known soprano and ten
or arias. Santauzza, Doris Doree, 
was charming though strikingly 
unhappy, or was Turiddu, Jon 
Crain, too frivolous? The balance 
was amusing, Turiddu being per
haps too uncaring of his betrayed 
companions bereavements.
The following I Pagliacci was 
unquestionably successful. The in
tensity of the drama was carried 
from beginning to end. Nedda, 
Laura Castellano, sang of her love 
passionately and performed at* 
tractively in the second act. Canio, 
Met star Rafael Lagares, was sen
sitive to his role and sang the 
famed Vesti La Giubba with 
realistic fervor, its success giving 
the artist five curtain calls.
Humor Introduced
Fortunately, Leoncavallo did 
not forget to introduce humor into 
the otherwise morbid tale. This 
was supplied by Tonio, Philip La 
Torre, who amused his audience 
despite the lack of vocal polish.
Generally, the voices were 
pleasant though none but Lagares* 
was exceptionally good or pol
ished.
The next program of the series 
will be on November 5, when the 
King of Pianists (I quote Virgil 
Thomson), Artur Rubenstein, will 
present an all Chopin program in 
occasion of the composers hun
dredth anniversary. This will be 
the artists only performance in 
Pittsburgh this season.
by Joe Weinreich
The designer of that Republican 
billboard with the grasping hands, 
and Make Your Home Safe, 
must have been a Democrat at 
heart.
Mr. and Mrs". Edmister live on 
Margaret Morrison street. Their 
backyard is on the edge of the 
soccer field. One day last week 
they sat down to enjoy their eve
ning meal. Mr. Edmister lifted his 
fork . . . but got no further 
. . . for a ball, a soccer ball,
came through the window to din
ner. Being old fashioned, and lik
ing their food on glass and not 
vice-versa, the unlucky couple 
ate elsewhere. At last reports the 
athletic office was to treat them 
to a steak dinner, sans ball.
The Veterans Wives had a 
hilarious time playing Truth and 
Consequences at their last meet
ing. What is a gnu?, stumped 
two ladies; as their consequences 
they were sent out for a six foot, 
live, gnu. The address of the Sig
ma Nu house was given as a 
starting place. The hunters 
brought back two gnue, one five, 
one six foot. The Club will meet 
again at 8:30 November 1, at the 
Carnegie Union.
WCIT, Techs dormant radio 
station, made an interesting lis
teners survey in 47. Results  
out of 16 programs classifications, 
semi-classical music rated a first 
in popularity, news bulletins 
i third, symphonic music fourth; 
sixteenth . . . religious programs.
Found arnidst a list of sugges
tions on hmv to make WCIT more 
listenable was: I would like to 
see a program incorporating one 
or two good commentators on 
campus activities. There is more 
security at Tech than G-2 ever 
thouyht of. It isnt a bad idea! 
What about giving Skibo a per
manent public address system, 
with music and news (campus, 
local, and world) during the two 
main lunch hours? Some of 
WCITs dust gathering equipment 
might possibly be converted for 
just such a purpose.
Another interesting discovery 
made in the survey was that the 
favorite listening time for the 
girls was at 7:00 p. m.,. and for 
the boys, 11:30 p. m.
The girls in A tower at Morewood Gardens dont have to set 
their alarm clocks any more. 
More faithful than any chrono
graph is the bull-dozer being used 
to clear the ground for the new 
dining room. It begins rootingabout promptly at 8:00 a. m.
I see where the newest addition 
to the campus is a Rocket So
ciety. Would any one like to start 
a Tech chapter of WCTU?
Scotch and Soda, after moving 
its skit deadline back a week, is 
preparing to audition them some 
time next week. Skit ideas range 
all the way from blackface to op
era.
Dick Reibling and Bill Putch, 
co-authors of last years SnS, will 
be busy in New York soon. Reib
ling is to work in television, 
while Putch has a par* in a 
Broadway play.
Tennis ought to be a darn good 
substitute for water polo, intra
mural board! Water polo just 
doesnt have any appeal. In fact, 
recruiting a team for water polo 
requires tactics similar to those 
the British once used to conscript 
seamen. Also, its a lot of work 
to drag the pool for bodies after 
every game.
Rah for Dorm Council; theyre 
going to take care of the gold fish 
in the Morewood Gardens pool 
this cold, cold winter. How nice. 
Dear MG:
I want to thank you for the re
freshing evening I enjoyed two 
weeks ago this night. It was brac
ing, such fun, and sooo enjoyable.
I loved it . . . every last drop.
I hope you will excuse the belat
edness of letter. You see, up to 
yesterday I was confined to the 
Presbyterian Hospital with a 
slight case of flu.
Appreciatipely,
A. Freshmaa

---------------------------------------------------

Abiorbcnt filters in Medico pipes and holder* 
have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... 
absorb [uices ... reduce tongue bite ... 
give you the utmost in smoking pleasure. 
MEDICO V. P. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) 
Specially selected Imported briar Pipes. 
Wide variety of shape. WUh 10 Alter... L 
Alto Frank Medico Standard",..
America's Outstanding Donr (ft) f/pe 
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders (| & >2MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
VJ LJ am.WM I 'SJU PWOJ H EAENC R!DWbDU iDo rSmM cn
All MfDICO PIPES NOW MADE Of 
PRE-WAR QUAUTY IMPORTED BRIAR
YM&WHA Education Series 
Reveals Varied Lecture Topics
Lectures, Discussion Groups, And Film Series 
Will Offer Understanding And Relaxation
The 49th semester of informal adult education was 
the Isaac Seder educational center of the YM&WHA, 315 
field Avenue, last night. Lecturers for the evening were 
Arnold Friesen, Donald Goodfellow, Fred Sochatoff, R. E. Slesinger, 
Fifty tickets to the game are#
J. M. Rogoff, and Samuel Rosen
berg.
Lecture series, discussion groups, 
and film series for adult under
standing and pleasure are offer
ed to the entire community. Sub
jects to be discussed include psy
chiatry, contemporary and class
ical literature, music appreciation, 
economics, and current problems.
Varied Lectures
Professor Donald Goodfellow 
will analyze American literature 
of the 1920s with its big busi
ness, speakeasies and bath-tub 
gin, and collegiate and college 
humor. Dr. Goodfellows series 
began Ocfober 24.
Dr. Arnold Friesen, member of 
the faculty of the University of 
Pittsburgh Medical School and 
practicing psychiatrist, will devote 
a series of lectures on Psychia
try and Morality: Healthy and 
Sick vs. Right and Wrong, be
ginning tonight.
Falk Music Feature
Thursday evenings speaker, 
Vivien Richman, noted singer, 
guitarist, and authority on folk 
music, will describe and illustrate 
with instrumental and vocal ac
companiment the folk songs in 
America. The melting pot of 
American music will be highlight
ed in the Folk Music and Folk 
Songs series.
Classes in the creative arts and 
modern languages also begin this 
week. Among other things they in
clude painting, writing, dance, 
speech, and modern languages.
Registration and further infor
mation are available at the YMHA 
or by calling MA. 1-6500.
Students Are Welcomed at
ST. ANDREWS
Lutheran Church
11 A. M. Worship 
10 A. M. Bible Classes 6 P. M. Youth Supper,
2nd & 4th Sun.
HEADQUARTERS: LUTHERAN 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION
R ntfLAWbND l.eMs 
LSmDoSSd I 'DWNmD R!DpJ
PatMtid.RiplacuWrutin
Additional Men 
Swell Ranks 
Of Fraternities
Additional men pledging their 
respective fraternities since the 
first list was published on Sep
tember 27 are as follows:
Alpha Tau Omega; John Dole, 
Charles Fuellgraf, Andrew Johns
ton, Ronald Knox, Edward McClenadhan, Ronald Murphy, Ed
ward Osipchak, John Steinick.
Beta Sigma Rho; Milton Rubin.
Beta Theta Pi; Jim Vaux, John 
Dogherty. Les Hamilton, Ed 
OKorn, Richard Righter.
Delta Tau Delta; William Gierl, 
Myron Hardy, David Shaw.
Delta Upsilo; Morris Brenneis, James Diefenderfer, How
ard Mielke, Joseph Robbins, Peter 
Sherman, Robert Stanger, Almerig Tunno, James Wetherby.
Kappa Sigma; Gil Dissen, Tom 
Doyle, Ray Emery, Jerry Gilles
pie, James Jordan, Bob King, Phil 
Molenda, Don Bierwerth.
Phi Kappa; Victor Coster, Omar 
Craig, Vince Schmitt.
Pi Kappa Alpha; Bob Mair, Bob 
Reuther.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Clifford 
Hayes, Alfred Lascheid, Bob Mc
Kee, Erkki Rainesalo, William 
Stewart, Robert Stroble.
Sigma Nu; Jack Alexander, 
Paul Rodor, Joe Strauss, Amato 
Teta, Elmer Veres.
Theta Xi; Lee Anderson, Bill 
Bloom, Don Dimon, Roy Djuvik, 
Willfred Goldschmidt, Ted Hershey.
Cwens, Scimitars 
To Sponsor 
Freshman Dance
Cwens and Scimitar will spon
sor a mixer dance for freshmen 
which will be held in the gym, 
Thursday at 4:30.
The program will feature Bill 
Stewarts combo and other enter
tainment by Phil Flad, who will 
be master of ceremonies. No ad
mission charge will be made.
Claymore Clan 
Offers To Aid 
Dorm Council
In a reversal of its original po
sition of refusing to aid Dorm 
Council on its social program, 
Claymore Clan offered its services 
at last weeks council meeting.
Wes Kenney, as an official 
spokesman for the clan, said ^hat 
the clans letter of refusal had 
been misunderstood. Kenney said 
that the clan was too small at 
the present time to do all of the 
work connected with a social pro
gram, but that it would be glad 
to offer its talent in directing any 
such program.
A motion to accept Claymore 
Clans help as stated by Kenney 
was defeated. In a hope that 
Dorm Council would reconsider 
terminating its connections with 
the clan, a motion was made to 
table the matter until the next 
meeting. This was also defeated.
Though the council made it 
clear that it did not desire any 
official help from Claymore Clan, 
it said that it would welcome 
help from clan members as indi
viduals.
Before Wes Kenney advanced 
Claymore Clans proposal, Trygve 
Holst, was elected social chair
man of Dorm Council to direct its 
own intensified social program.
> *^ #
hhhhhhhhhhhhhh *v6L
Familiar noises never enter their silent world but here in ft 
lip reading class these boys are learning to hear through the services 
of the League for the Hard of Hearing, a Red Feather agency. 56% 
of the money collected by the CAMPUS CHEST will go to this and 
any other projects sponsored by the Community Chest.* * * * * *
Chest Campaign Starts Nov. 1: 
Night School Pledges Support
by CHUCK KOESTER
Every campus group, including the evening school, day school, 
faculty, and administration are cooperating in the 1949 Campus 
Chest. The evening school recently joined forces in the campaign, 
makings excellent its chances for success. The campaign begins 
November 2. ?----------------------------------------------------
One of the newest service 
groups at Carnegie, the Campus 
Chest is out to prove its worth 
this year. The committee was or
ganized last spring to relieve the 
campus of seven separate charity 
drives. The seven charities have 
agreed to one combined drive with 
the understanding that they will 
not do their own soliciting later 
in the year.
Only One Drive
The plan of having one drive 
rather than seven has obvious ad
vantages for the student body. 
Each person is asked to contribute 
only once during the school year. 
Previously, the amount each char
ity received was determined large
ly by the size of the campaign 
which it conducted, and some 
charities could not afford large 
poster and solicitation campaigns.
The committee, composed of 
Bob Horsch, Dick Cutkosky, Kitty 
McGowan, Frank Witt, Charles 
Koester, and Dr. Graham, have set 
the goal for the drive at $10,000 
This will mean a minimum con
tribution of $2.00 from each stu
dent plus somewhat larger gifts 
from faculty and administration 
members. Solictation of students 
will be done in class rooms on
November 2, 3, and 4.
$10,000 Goal
If the $10,000 goal is reached, 
the community chest will receive 
$5,500 for their 92 Red Feather 
agencies. This organization has 
the purpose of making the com
munity a better place in which to 
live. One of their services, the 
visiting nurse, helped more than 
62,000. people on the road back to 
health last year. Y.M.C.A.s boys 
clubs, community centers, etc., are 
also benefited by this fund.
The World Student Service 
Fund will receive $1130 to help 
them in sending scientific books 
and laboratory equipment to Eu
ropean and some far Eastern uni
versities. The books will carry 
nameplates inscribed Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. To the 
Red Cross will go $1170 for their 
work in water safety, nutrition 
courses, home nursing courses, 
whole blood collection, and disas
ter relief. Over 25,000 people in 
Allegheny County benefited from 
these services last year.
To the Infantile Paralysis fund 
will go $1080 for their research 
and relief. The Salvation Army, 
Cancer Fund, and Heart Fund will 
receive the remainder of the 
$10,000.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949 . TAIWAN
J
1. OIT THI MODMN RUll designed by Nationally Known Spe
cialist*.
%. on THI MODIRN INSTRUCTION MANUALS-'wrltten by Prof. 
Maurice L Hartung, University ef Chicagoa recognised author
ity TV mathematical education. Theee manual, acclaimed 
among the flneet and leareet ever writtenare PRII with 
Pickett, Faculty-Approved Slide Rulec.
See Them Here
HEADLEE'S BOOK STORE
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 FIFTH AVE.
Let a Slide Rule 
Throw You for a Lossll
e

---------------------------------------------------

TA4MANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949I
Anti-Carnegie Day has come and gone with one and only 
one consolation.Things cant get much worse.
All three of the Tartan teams, football, soccer, and cross 
country, went down to defeat last Saturday. It was the first 
bitter taste for both of the former squads thus far this autumn.
With the gridders its the old story that you cant play 
an eight game schedule with eleven players. The physical 
beatings which Dr. Bakers team has suffered on previous 
weeks finally caught up with them.
Most sorely missed were tackles Gerry Meyers and Norm
Keats who left the Case game in the first five minutes with 
injuries and never returned. The powerful Meyers has been 
the defensive standout throughout the first three games for 
Carnegie and was playing his usual brand of ball prior to his 
leg injury.
Lou Fougere, number one end, who played on the defense 
in spite of his severely injured knee, was still not at his best.
Fritz Wilson, too was hampered by bad legs while fullback
Tom Haney never saw action because of injuries.
Floyd Wiseman, starting left guard, was left in Pittsburgh 
to recuperate from abdominal damages suffered against F&M.
It just wasn't possible to find enough adequate substitutes 
to play sixty minutes with such key men missing.
It is far from certain, though, that the presence of 
any or all of these men would have changed the contest 
into a victory. Case had both power and depth which would 
have presumably outlasted the Plaids offerings under any 
conditions.
The student body, however, has done about as much to 
stave off defeat as the Case team did. The amazing fighting 
spirit that was once the talk of the town is rapidly draining 
away from the Tartan campus.
Just one year ago hundreds of revolting students broke up 
classes and paraded through the halls with the chant, We want 
football. Now that they have it, the importance of the thing 
seems to have dwindled to nothing. There can be no question 
that the school was backing the losing teams of recent years 
to the last man, but a winner apparently has no place here.
Just what phychological effect the defeat will have on 
the gridmen is difficult to tell. They may bounce back and be 
stronger than ever or they may collapse completely. Next 
Saturdays meeting with Washington and Jefferson promises 
to offer at least a partial solution.
The daymen have been taking their* beatings quite regu
larly as of late. They are, indeed, a peculiar team which con
sistently shows an indifference to the final outcome of the game.
Most typical of their group is the much publicized Deacon 
Dan Towler. Never much of a team player he seems to lack 
the ambition to become the great player that his physique 
promises. Only with the goal line in sight has he shown any 
signs of awakening from his lethargy and even that has started 
to wane.
The big man in the Wash-Jeff backfield, though, is Jack 
Sourbeer who might well be described as a locomotive in dis
guise. Hes a quick starter with power to burn and a time 
of ten seconds in the hundred yard dash. The Plaid line has 
already had several tastes of Sourbeers driving plunges and 
is well aware of the threat he presents.
Harriers Better Than Showing
Coach Guy Halfertys harriers took their second straight 
white washing just prior to the football contest at Cleveland.
It has been the high calibre of the opposition rather than the 
lack of local talent which has been the main drawback 
thus far.
Jackie Alberts absence has quite naturally hurt the Tar
tan runners considerably, but Gene Cockrell, John Cooper, and 
a few others promise to bring home a victory of two before 
the season ends.
VSOODm Picture Bright
The soccer picture is far from dim. Pat OConnors charges 
turned in a creditable performance in losing to a Slippery Rock 
team which has now won 29 out of its last 32 contests.
Their impressive showing against Frostburg indicates that 
they are still the favorites for next Saturdays battle with 
Oberlin on the home grounds.
Rough Riders Overpower 
Carnegie'By 38-0 Score
WMWI^^KKMWWfi/gWQU
k ugEeg H u [
yQ
1'v0( y)6R(V RlRr
Carnegies leading ground gainer of the day, Johnny Luchok, 
breaks away around left end in the third period against Case Tech 
at Cleveland, Ohio, last Saturday. Case won the game, 38-0.
Tartans Clash 
With W&J 
On Saturday
Twenty Fourth Meeting 
Of Teams; Presidents 
Have Fastest Backfield
A battered and bruised Carnegie 
Tech football team, in an. attempt 
to get back on the victory trail, 
will travei to Washington, Pa., 
next Saturday for the annual grid 
battle with Washington and Jef
ferson College. The game will 
mark the twenty-fourth meeting 
between the two schools in a 
rivalry that dates back to 1906.
Past records show the Tartans 
winning only three games, while 
dropping fifteen, and tying five. 
Carnegie last defeated the Red 
and Black in 1930, when they 
wound up on the long end of a 
26-0 scor.
Fleetfooted Backs
This years W&J aggregation 
boasts one of the most fleetfooted 
backfields in national collegiate 
football. All four of their start
ing ball-carriers are capable of 
running the length of the gridiron 
in ten seconds or less.
Headlining the speedy WashJeff backfield will be the cele
brated Deacon Dan Towler who, 
although injured in last Saturdays 
game, is expected to be ready to 
go against the Tartans. Halfback 
Russ Cooper, who ran wild at 
Forbes Feld last year but hasnt 
seen action for the Presidents this 
year because of an injured leg, is 
also slated to start the game.
Sourbeer a Threat
Although both Towler and Coo
per are excellent ball-carriers, 
fullback Jack Sourbeer is expect
ed to give the Tartans the most 
trouble. Sourbeer has been the 
principle offensive threat of the 
Red and Black all season.
The Presidents, having won only 
one game in four outings this sea
son, are bent on drubbing the in
jury-riddled Plaid, particularly in 
view of the fact that the fame 
will be the high point of the 
Homecoming celebration at the 
Washington County school.
An opening-game 15-7 victory 
over Denison was followed by 
three consecutive Wash-Jeff losses 
to strong opponents. The setbacks 
included a 13-6 defeat at the hands 
of Geneva, a 19-7 pasting by 
Bradley Tech, and a 61-0 drub
bing by powerful Bucknell.
With four first-team linemen on 
the doubtful starting list due to in
juries, the Tartans will be hardpressed in stopping a W & J team 
determined to end a three-game 
> losing streak.
The Opposition
Carnegies future football op
ponents managed to win one 
out of their four contests last 
Saturday as the Plaid went 
down to their initial defeat of 
the year.
Both W&J and Lehigh were 
drubbed by larger margins 
than the Tartans while Grove 
City had no trouble overcoming 
Allegheny.
Wittenberg 27 Bucknell ..62 
GROVE
CITY... 32 Brown ___48
WASHMARIETTA 7 JEFF ___0
LEHIGH ... 0 Allegheny . . 0
Wha' Happened !
CARNEGIE0 
EndsWilson, Dougherty, Wagner, Fou
gere, Rowe.
TacklesKeats, Meyers, Lange, Galanda, 
Stahle, Odeh.
GuardsLange, Stovicek, Norton, Whitenight, Madden.
CentersDonato, Trautman, Kamaras, 
Freeman.
BacksSommer, Simcic, Brourman, Dis
sen, Warner, Metzger, Schechter, DeGiovanni, Kenney, Luchok, Magnifico, 
Holtz.
CASE38
EndsAnzells, Frissell, Buescher, Heaton, 
Hardy, Linn, MacDonald.
TacklesDonnelley, Miller, Kerslake,
Bednar, Montag, Robinson, Bernard, 
Ritchie, Bahnsen.
GuardsParidon, Lanigan, Biggar, Mar
tin, Smith, Aspray, Unger, Lund. 
CentersHerron, Revelt, Aspray.
BacksCifelli, Zalimeni,. Yarsa, Ganyard, 
Zoller, Mason, Theiling, Debrecini. 
Hildebrand, Kraince, Lafyatis, Leitch. 
Score by Quarters:
Case .................6 19 7 638
Carnegie . 0 0 0 0------0
ScoringTouchdowns: Ganyard 2,
Heaton 2, Zalimeni, Lafyatis.
Points after touchdownAspray 2 
(placements).
Officials: RefereeV. P. Jenkins (Ak
ron), UmpireMike Palermo (Albion), 
LinesmanH. C. Richardson (Miami), 
Field JudgeRoy Wisecup (Miami).
CARNEGIE - CASE
11 ............ First Downs ............ 18
5 ................. FD Rushing ............... 14
4 ................. FD Passing ................ 4
2 ............ FD Penalties ............ 0
102 ....Net Yds. Rushing ....396
64 .... Net Yds. Passing ....150
22 ..........Passes Attempted...........16
7 .... Passes Completed .... 10
3 ............ Intercepted By ............. 3
4 ............ No. of Punts ............ 3
34.2 .. Avg. Yds. per Punt .. 26.0
5 ..................... Fumbles ................... 2
2 .. Ban Lost on Fumbles .. 1
2 .................................... Penalties . 10
10 ... Yds. Lost Penalties ... 96
CARNEGIERUSHING
Yds.
Rushs Yds. per Rush
Luchok ......................... 9 59 6.6
Simcic ..........................16 38 2.4
Metzger ....................... 3 13 4.3
DeGiovaani .................2 3 1.5
Dissen ........................... 4 3 0.8
Holtz .............................. 1 12 12.0
Sommer ....................... 4  3  0.8
Wilson ............\.......... 1 1 1.0
Ohio Team 
Scores Six 
Touchdowns
Injury Riddled CIT 
Team Swamped 
In Second Period
uV
1022.6Totals ......................40PASSING Thrown Complete Yards........11219331214
764
CASERUSINGYds.RushsYds.per RushZalimeni..............111089.8
Ganyard..............181257.0183.6212.68989.0
Hildebrand............ 11212.0285.6 50.8
3967.2
CLEVELAND, O., October 22 
An injury riddled Carnegie Tech 
football team had its unbeaten 
streak snapped abrutly 3t four 
games this afternoon by a power
ful Case Tech eleven and a 38-0 
score.
Thoroughly outplayed in every 
phase of the game* the Tartan, 
squad missed several good scor-' 
ing opportunities and found their 
defense wanting the services of 
guard Floyd Wiseman, who didnt 
make the trip, and tackles Gerry 
Meyers and Norm Keats, both of 
whom were injured early in the 
first quarter.
Every Break
Case amassed 18 first down by 
way of 396 yards' rushing and 150 
yards through the air while scor-?/1 
ing in every period. They made 
few mistakes and capitalized on 
every break of the game.
The Rought Riders first drive 
downfield immediately after the 
kickoff was nipped by a 15 yard 
pass interference penalty. They 
marched right back after a poor 
Carnegie punt and broke into the 
scoring column at 12:45 when Don 
Zalimeni plunged over from the 
three.
Untouched To Goal
The Plaid chargecf back to the 
Case 27 where Ted Debreceni( in
tercepted one of Bobby Sommers 
passes on the first play of the sec
ond stanza. Two plays later, Ike 
Ganyard ripped through center 
and scampered 87 yards untouch
ed to the goal line.
Carnegie couldnt get moving 
again and Elmer Metzger kicked 
to the Case 31. Despite two pen-U 
alties which totaled 20 yards, the 
home team covered the distance to 
the goal in 17 plays with Ganyard 
going over from the 2 at 8:35.
Simcics interception of a Cifelli 
pass late in the half f 3 the 
Scots a scoring opportunity on the 
enemy 11, but Case tocik over on 
down four plays later at the same 
spot.
Another Score .
At this point Paul Lafyatis car-** 
ried the ball for his first and last 
time of the day. He raced past the 
entire blue shirted squad for 89 
yards and another score.
Soon after the intermission the 
Tartans failed to take advantage 
of another break. Hans Lange fell 
on a fumble on the Case 3. Som
mers last down attempt at a quar
terback sneak from the one footline fell short and Cifelli kicked 
out to the 40.
Led by Simcic and Johnny 
Luchok, the Plaid moved again 
to the Brown and White teams six 
where they again lost the ball on 
downs. Eleven plays and 94 yards 
later Cifelli fired a flat pass to 
Bob Heaton for a Case tally.
Holding Penalty
After an exchange of punts at 
the start of the last quarter, the 
Rough Riders moved from theirown 42 to Carnegies 13 in three v 
plays. A holding penalty set them 
back to the 26, but Cifelli hit 
Heaton again for the final score.
Neither team threatened there
after until the final moments of 
play when Quent Holtz passed his 
team to the Case 9 where the 
game ended.
PASSING Thrown Complete YardsCifelli ..................10 7 103 /ftZalimeni ............. 2 1 12 *Ganyard ............. 2 2 35Zoller .................. 1 0 0Mason ................. 1 -0 0
Totals ....................16 10 150

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949TA#A1V5
Cross Country Team Drops 
Second Straight Meet To Case
Tartan Squad Shows Improvement Over Last 
Weeks Performance In Bowing By 15-43
For the second time Carnegie Techs cross-country team has 
met defeat. On the dry, windy course at Case Tech in Cleveland 
Saturday afternoon, Coach Guy Halfertys squad was snowed under,
15 to 43. <
Five Case speedsters thundered 
over the finish line of the 3.88 mile 
course ahead of the Carnegie 
squad. Gene Cockrell was the first 
Tartan to finish, 1 minute and 8 
seconds behind the winning time 
of 20 minutes and 43 seconds. 
Sophomore Joe McElhany trailed 
Cockrell by 2 seconds, in seventh 
place.
Bob Carman finished ninth in 
22 minutes and 10 seconds. John 
Cooper was close on his heels 
for tenth place. Bob Chieruzzi, 
Harry Ceranowitz, Jim Romauldi, 
and Bill Peth rounded out the 
Carnegie squad.
Although they were defeated by 
a large margin, Coach Halferty 
stated that Everyone on the squad 
showed definite signs of impiovement.
Friday, October 28, the Tartans 
will encounter Bethany College on 
the Schenley Park track. This will 
be the first home engagement for
the local runners.
With a steadily improving squad, 
this may be the opportunity for 
the underdog Plaid to snap their 
curent losing streak.
Col Siffert Wins 
Tartan Football 
Contest Easily
Cal Siffert, graduate student in 
the department of printing, is the 
number one football yogi on the. 
Tech campus. By predicting the 
winners of nine of ten college 
games played Saturday, Siffert is 
the winner of last weeks football 
contest sponsored by S. M. Frank 
& Co. Of twenty-five entries, only 
three -listed Case as a possible 
victor over the Plaid. Strange as 
it may seem, there wras only one 
prediction of an exact score: Ron
ald Burgos, freshman, correctly 
picked Penn to defeat Navy, 28-7.
Tartan Football Contest
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY BLANK 
/.FDp SE 0ONS|Dm c&U n&>&
Team Score Team Score
CARNEGIE TECH .......... WASH-JEFF
PITT .......... PENN ..........
ST. LOUIS ...... DUQUESNE ..........
MARIETTA .......... BETHANY
THIEL .......... GROVE CITY
NEW YORK U.. .......... LEHIGH ..........
WEST VIRGINIA .......... VIRGINIA
NORTHWESTERN .......... OHIO STATE ..........
TENNESSEE .......... NORTH CAROLINA ..........
TEXAS .......... SMU ..........
Name........*..................................................Dept.............Class................
Pittsburgh Address
44 W restling 
Candidates 
To Compete
Informal wrestling practice be
gan last week with forty-four 
aspirants working out in prepara
tion for the wrestling tournament 
to be held during December.
The program will be similar to 
the one begun last year, when 
each campus organization could 
enter up to eight men.
At present wrestling is an intra
mural sport, but if enough men 
show promise, it is possible for 
the sport to be raised to varsity 
status. A schedule could still be 
arranged for this winter to round 
out the winter sports program, 
which now includes swimming 
and basketball.
Pictured below is the attractive Smokers Kit which will be 
awarded to the winner of the Tartans weekly football contest. 
The kit contains two pipes and two boxes of filters in a con
venient zippered case.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit the cou
pon in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the Tartan. All 
coupons must be entered by midnight Friday.
CONTEST RULES
1. Only CIT students are eligible to compete.3. Each contestant will predict not only the winner but also the final score of the game. Entries will be judged on number of correct decisions in case ot ties,entries will be judged on correctness of scores.3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry ** sub
mitted by  student, he or she will be disqualified. -5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winner will be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision ot the judges will be final.6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive the Smoker's Kit shown above from 
S. M. Frank Sc Co., Inc.
Tartan Lineman of the Week
GOWN BY CEIL CHAPMAN - 
JEWELS BY PIETER DE WITT
VftTH SMOKERS
VI HO KHOW*rS
Yes. CameU "e
a(*-to-coast test
ani ,nen  oteaAioa5^"
eculW* da?., of me otYiundre ^ coti^ . rep0r
SWeQ '.UW uUll 2LKG-[Y
ted
\ats, tnaVmg
noioNt
SINGLE CASE Of
BJJJA2fG2wtY
due *o sn1
CABEIS!
Lou Fougere became the fourth 
Tartan lineman to be named as 
Lineman of the Week following 
the battle with Case Tech at 
Cleveland last Saturday.
Fougere, who went along just 
for the ride for the second 
straight week, turned in a bril
liant defensive game despite the 
decided handicap of an injured 
leg.
Originaly not scheduled to see 
any action, the 180 pound Massa
chusetts junior found his services 
needed when injuries started to 
take their toll of his teammates. 
He proved more than equal to the 
task and consistently stopped the 
Rough Riders end sweeps dur
ing the second half.
Fougere is expected to be ready 
for regular duty in next weeks 
game at Washington and Jeffer
son.Lou Fougere

---------------------------------------------------

6TAftPAlVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949 '
JL ^ This is a ivatcr boy. Does thirst
th ings first. Gets pail when coach 
hollers. Has his otvn money but sponges 
off the team. Wins special cheers 
for his handsome "Manhattann Sportshirt.
AJm This is a Manhattan Sportshirt.
Tailored to make the most of the 
man mulorneath. In a n ule range 
of fabrics and a icorld of colors.
Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
Bobby Sommer
Bobby Sommer Shines 
At Quarterback Spot
Mt. Lebanon Senior Calls Signals, 
Throws Passes For Plaid Eleven
For two years a blond haired Mt. Lebanon gridder played wing 
back and tailback spots on Tech football teams whose Saturday de
feats were as inevitable as night and day. Few people in the stands 
knew his name and what is more even fewer cared. He was just
another guy taking a weekly#--------------------------------------------------
beating to help Tech fill its grid 
committments.
At the close of the 48 season, 
however, things took a turn for 
the better. Dr. Eddie Baker, a 
Pitt alumnus, took over the reigns 
as head coach and with him he 
brought a new style of play, the 
winged T formation.
Quarterback Essential
The successes of the offensive 
style hinged on the ability of a 
quarterback who could combine 
brains, sleight-of-hand, passing, 
and lunning. When the Tartans 
took the field against Bethany this 
man had been found. He was Bob 
Sommer the same blond haired !
Mt. Lebanon gridder who had j 
played in many of Techs weekly | 
disasters.
Bob is a chemical engineering 
student, a fraternity man (Beta 
Theta Pi) and, unfortunately, a 
senior who is playing his last year 
of ball at Carnegie Tech. His foot
ball background before college 
was inauspicious. He played one 
year of ball at Mt. Lebanon H.S., 
and before this season had never 
played thequarterback slot in 
the T or any other offensive for
mation.
No Glamour
His position on the team is not 
glamourous. To the average foot
ball neophyte he is nothing more 
than the last guy who touches the 
ball before Simcic makes his bril
liant off tackle thrusts or Luchock -four times by every climatic flashes the pigskin on cross-hucki phenomena except snow. When it
Actutally, however, it is Som
mer who must call all the plays 
in the huddle (there are thirtyfive to remember), drop back to 
pass when the situation calls for 
one, plough his 180 pound frame 
through the center of the line 
when a yard or two is needed for 
a first down, and provide the 
necessary deception to make all 
the running and passing plays 
ground gaining possibilities. In 
addition to this he becomes de
fensive halfback when opposing 
teams are on the offense.
Sommer never will be another 
Baugh or Luckman. What is 
much more important, however, is 
that he is good enough to give the 
Tartans the shot in the arm nec
essary for a few grid victories.
Therefore, and with great fear of 
jinxing the team, a long silent 
cheer for Bob Sommer.
W&J Excursion
Scimitars will sell bus tickets 
at $1.25 for a round trip to 
the Washington and Jefferson 
football game until the supply 
is exhausted. The limited sup
ply will be available at Skibo 
throughout the week.
Morty Baker 
Tennis Champ
Bob Hocker Defeated
In Three Set Match
Morty Bakers gallant last 
ditch stand turned a sure defeat 
into victory as he triumphed over 
Bob Hocker to become intra
mural tennis champion. The 
scores were 1-6, 6-2, 8-6.
The final match was postponed
131 Hockey Team 
To Clash With 
University (Huh0
Carnegie Techs field hockey 
team will play a return game with 
the University Hockey club on 
Thursday at 4:30, on the CIT field. 
Jayn Walker has been elected 
manager of the IM hockey team 
and Phyllis Green is assistant 
manager.
Womens volleyball practices 
will be held Wednesdays and Fri
days from 3:30 to 4:30, in the 
womens gym. The club chairman 
is to be elected at the next meet
ing.
The new chairman of the Tarquans is Dolores Walker.
Bea Cohen is the Archery club | 
representative to the WAA execu! 
tive board. She is in charge of all | 
tournaments, the first of which j 
will be held with P.C.W.
An organization meeting of the , 
Modern Dance club will be held I 
in the womens gym, Thursday, 
November 3 at 4:30. i
finally was played, it provided an 
exhibition of excellent tennis, es
pecially in the final set.
Hocker baffled a noticeably 
tense Baker in the first set with 
a slice drive to win 6-1. In the 
second set, however, Baker show
ed tournament form. He volleyed 
well and charged the net at op
portune moments to overcome 
Hockers persistent defensive 
game. Baker showed remarkable 
control in this set, placing his 
drives at will along the baseline.
It was the third set, however, 
which provided the most thrills of 
the match. Hocker, winning 5-4, 
was at match point three times, 
but Baker put on a remarkable 
exhibit of defensive play, won the 
game and finally went on to win 
the set 8-6 and the championship.
Squirrel Hill 
Hobby Shop
COMPLETE LINE OF ALL 
MODEL SUPPLIES
Open evenings till 9:00.
*.MD 68 Sm & VNmDDN '.m
NS ,CAeeAkp VNJ
ATO, Delts 
Unbeaten In 
Three Games
ASCE Leads American 
League As Phi Kappa 
Challenges Delt Team
Theta Xi flashed a potent pass
ing and running game as they 
scored in every quarter to steam
roller Tau Delta Phi 35-9. Bob 
Mathews, TX fullback, opened the 
scoring as he hit Pete Anderson 
with a twenty yard pass for a 
touchdown. The score evened a 
moment later, however, when 
Chuck Winnick intercepted a TX 
pass and scooted for the only Tau 
Delt touchdown of the afternoon. 
Two long runs by Bill Oxley and 
passes from Mathews to Wayne 
Boyd and Art Christopher rolled 
up the one-sided Theta Xi victory. 
Final Score: TX 35. Tau Delts 9.
Sleepers Score
The Pi Kappa Alpha team went 
down to defeat before ASCE as 
Jack MacDonald passed to ASCEs 
Dick Schober for three of the 
ASCE scores. Sleeper plays caught 
the PiKAs off guard several 
times and accounted for many of 
the tallies. Trailing in the fourth 
quarter 26-12, the PiKAs rallied 
with touchdowns by Bill McKibben and Jim Blakely to bring 
themselves to within three points 
of ASCE before time finally ran 
out. Final score: ASCE 26, PiKA 
23.
Capitalizing on the talented 
passing arm of Jack Collins, Phi 
Kappa fraternity scored an easy 
20-1 victory over Beta Theta Pi. 
The Betas made a game of it dur
ing the scoreless first quarter, but 
faded from the picture as Collins 
hit Bill Repovz and Bill Trimble 
for touchdowns, and then scored 
[Continued on page 7]
6,6)* )6,RP)V
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 1-4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
*5 YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
RODGERS
DAIRY
TRY OUR
HAMBURGERS
L.dD oANC 100 kbmD |DDE 
1J VJ /S!DmWFDWN AWpkDONDd
LARGE MILK SHAKES
L.dD oANC kbmD oCSeD 
FAeM
RODGERS
Dairy Stores
3&t5 a0)y6V V*)66* 
iD.m ySqbDN 
>n& '6i*6) RV6i16 
iD.m 'm.Ag 
5>n> lRi1* V*)66* 
VC.dQpAdD
Other stores downtown
Soccer Team Upset 
By Slippery Rock
Local Boo ter s Lack Aggressiveness 
In First Loss of Season5 2tol
Carnegie Techs soccer team got their first taste of defeat last 
Saturday when a strong Slippery Rock squad came to town and 
upset the dope by a 2 to 1 score.
Caught at their own game, Pat OConnors booters were victims
of the same type of upset they 
engineered against Frostburg State 
Teachers last week.
The Rockets, now victorious in 
29 of their last 32 starts, racked 
up a goal in each of the first two 
periods while the Plaid team went 
to their defensive game.
Vaux Scores 
Not until the second half did 
the local squad show the aggres
siveness which earned them their 
first victory. A pass from the cen
ter was picked up by Jim Vaux 
who beat the fullbacks of the op
position to the ball and shot 
through the Tartans only score 
in the third stanza.
Chuck Clinton was the out
standing Carnegie boo ter. He 
turned in a brilliant game at his 
goalie position despite the con
stant offensive thrusts of the Slip
pery Rock front line.
Mazza Workneh, Frank Crespo, 
and Ray Jenkins played at their 
spots almost without relief as the 
Plaid went all out in an attempt
to preserve their unbeaten record.
Upset Game 
Buckey, center halfback, and 
Bruno, left halfback, booted the 
two goals for the visitors.
The upset was particularly sig
nificant in view of the fact that 
Frostburg had previously nipped 
the Rockets by a 1-0 result, iden
tical with the Carnegie victory 
over the former.
Next Saturday the Tartan soc
cer squad will once again be the 
host team as Oberlin College sends 
their representatives to Pittsburgh.
The lineups for the Slippery 
Rock game were:
Carnegie1
Clinton .................Slippery
G..................
FB ............
Rock2 Murphy 
Donaldson
FB .................
Wartenburg ....
LH .......
 Meyers Buckey
BaU ...........................OR ...............IR ...............
C F ...............
IL ...............
Jenkins .................
Score by Periods:
Carnegie ..........00 101Slippery Rock 11 002
GoalsCarnegie: Vaux; Slippery Rock:
Bruno, Buckey.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949TAWAIV7
Intramural Football Summary
[Continued from page 6]
one himself on a pass from Tom
DAgostino.
FPHA Swamped
Delta Upsilon romped over 
FPHA to a 29-5 win. In the first 
period Jim Gilliland threw two 
TD passes to Dick Barr in the end 
zone. The second frame went 
scoreless, but after the half the 
DUs came back with another 
scorethis time on an aerial from 
Gilliland to Jim Kessel. In the 
final period Kessel scored again 
on an end around play; A1 Kiefer 
tossed a 30 yard pass to Dick 
Frost for the final DU tally.
The lone FPHA score came in 
the last quarter with four min
utes remaining in the game. Ed 
OSipchak intercepted a DU pass 
and went the distance, saving 
FPHA from a complete shutout.
Passing Effective
PiKAs bounced back from their 
defeat at the hands of ASCE and
downed the Raiders 23-13. The 
first quarter saw the ball chang
ing hands many times as several 
interceptions were made by each 
team. The PiKAs ame from be
hind in the second quarter to take 
a 12-7 lead. Two more TDs in the 
second half kept the lead for 
PiKA. A1 Yarian threw three 
touchdown passes to Bob Reuther 
and another scoring aerial to Mike 
Costa.
Kappa Sigma took a heartbreaker from the Sigma Nu six 
as a last minute pass from Tom 
Fields to Jack Garver gave KS the 
only touchdown of the game and 
the tie breaking points. Just be
fore the half Sigma Nu swept 
from their own 25 to the KS 7. 
Jim Holthaus went around his 
right end to the 3 yard line and a 
first down. Holthaus completed a 
pass to Ed Connelly but the would
Six Lettermen 
Return To CAT 
Sivim Squad
Six returning letter men will 
form the nucleus of the swimming 
squad when it begins practice 
next month under the direction 
of Coach Claude Sofield.
Captain Gene Sapper, Nick Demas, Bob Eichholtz, Tom Free
man, Dick Barr, and A1 Macy lead 
a group of nineteen candidates.
Informal practice will be held 
each Friday at 4:30 with the 
training scheduled to start No
vember fourteenth.
Anyone interested in joining 
the team is invited to attend prac
tice. Experienced breast strokers 
and divers in particular are re
quested to tryout.
Years of research pioneering guarantee
LUCKIES ARE A FINER CIGARETTE!
Constant research at Lucky Strike's famous cigarette laboratoryAmerica's 
largest and most completely equippedis devoted to giving you a finer cigarette!
T
here is no finer cigarette in the world today than 
Lucky Strike. Heres why: Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. And every step in the making of Luckies 
from before this fine tobacco is bought until the finished 
cigarette reaches youcomes under the watchful eye 
of the largest and most completely equipped cigarette 
research laboratory in America.
For many years, the famous Lucky Strike labora
tory in Richmond, Virginia, has been a center of
cigarette science and technology. In this remarkable 
building you can see a fascinating collection of scien
tific instruments. Working with this array of scientific 
equipment are more than 60 highly trained specialists 
chemists, biologists, engineers, physicists.
Yes, Lucky Strike scientists have for years delved 
into cigarette research on an extensive scale.
Today, because of the miracle of modern science, 
Lucky Strike is a finer cigarette.
Intramural Standings
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Won Lost Tied
ASCE .....................................2 0 1
TX ........................................ 3 1 0
D. Dukes ...........................2 1 0
SAE ...................................... 1 1 0
PiKA .................................. 2 2 0
Raiders ............................... 0 2 1
TDP ...................................... 0 3 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Won Lost Tied
ATO .......................................3 0 0
DU ....................................... 2 2 0
FPHA .................................. 1 1 0
Kappa Sigs ...................... 1 1
Sigma Nu .......................... 1 2 0
P&D2 .......................... 1 2 0
Emanon ............................ 0 1 1
NATIONAL LEAGUE
s, Won Lost Tied
Delts ................................... 3 0 0
Phi Kaps ............................2 0 0
Citcom ................................ 2 1 0
Newman ........................... 1 1 0
Beta Sigs .....................\ .. 0 3 0
Betas .....................................0 3 0
Last Weeks Results
Phi Kaps 20 Betas 1
DU 29 FPHA 5
Citcom 34 Beta Sigs 15
ASCE 27 PiKA 23
Kappa Sigs 11 Sigma Nu 6
Theta Xi 35 Tau Delts 9
Newman 19 Betas 4
P & D 2 25 DU 18
PiKA 23 Raiders 13
We know:LUCKIES m MORE
for fne tobacco
(FAeeASWp SE dSee.mp FSmD NC.W 
SEEAOA.e k.mANQ kmAODp)
We are convinced:LUCKIES PAY MORE
for cigarette research
be score was nullified as Con
nelly took the ball just out of the
end zone.
Heartbreaker
The Kappa Sigs tied the score 
in the last period when Fields 
passed to Garver on the SN 20 
for a first down. KS then broke 
the tie by pushing to another first 
down on the SN 5 yard line. At 
this point the SN defense held as 
Dick Magner slipped through the 
KS line and trapped Fields for 
a five yard loss. On the next play, 
however, Garver scored for the 
Kappa Sigs. Final score: KS 11, 
SN 6.
IM Football Schedule
Tuesday, Oct. 25Dorm Dukes vs. PiKA, 
Field 1; ATO vs. Sigma Nu, Field 2.
Wednesday, Oct. 26Tau Delts vs. ASCE, 
Field 1; P & D 2 vs. Kappa Sigs, Field 
2; Newman vs. Beta Sigs, Field 3.
Thursday, Oct. 27Raiders vs. SAE, 
Field 1; Emanon vs. FPHA, Field 2.
Friday, Oct. 28Citcom vs. Phi Kaps, 
Field 3.
Monday, Oct. 31TX vs. ASCE, Field 
1; DU vs. Kappa Sigs, Field 2.
Research leads the way. Only constant, painstaking, exhaus
tive researchas conducted on a large scale through the years 
by The American Tobacco Companycould produce the scien
tific knowledge that results in the quality of Luckies.
Testing tobacco. Samples from every tobacco-growing area 
are analyzed before and after purchase. These extensive scien
tific analyses, along with the expert judgment of Lucky Strike 
buyers, assure you that the tobacco in Luckies Ls fine.
Luckies stay fresh. After Lucky Strike ciga
rettes have been packaged, they must be tightly 
sealed to jemain fresh. Here you see the cello
phane seal being tested for air-tightness. Such in
struments are in constant use at every plant.
So, for your own real deepdown smoking enjoyment
bOMQ VNmAMDp EAWD NS|.OOS .Wd OSW
pN.WN mDpD.mOC OSF|AWD NS gA!D QSb . 
EAWDm OAg.mDNNDJ ,mS!D NCAp NS QSbm
pDeEJ ybQ . O.mNSW NSd.Q!COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Hare System Retabled 
Following Long Debate
Council Starts Correction Program 
To Remedy Operational Criticisms
The Hare System, proposed revision to Carnegies election pro
cedure, is back on the table again. After considerable debate con
cerning its merit and necessity, only the negative vote of President 
Sinclair kept the issue from being voted upon by Student Council
last Wednesday. ?-----------------------------------------------------
In order to permit the class of [ tee has appointed John Fondrk to
Employed ?
All students who were em
ployed during the past summer 
vacation are requested to re
port to Miss Moses in the Dean 
of Men's Office, IH 144C before 
November 4.
1953 to start functioning imme
diately, Council approved a 
blanket constitution drafted by the 
class reorganization committee. A 
three point plan to correct some 
of the evils mentioned in Wallace 
Perrs letter to Council was pre
sented by the plans and programs 
committee.
Absentee Question
Brought off the table by elec
tions chairman Jim Horsch, the 
Hare System  . 
first brought up -
the important 
question about 
the vote of absent members. ">
Several excused ' - 
councilmen had 
members pres^ ^ J \" 
ent the right to ^
cast their vote.
Since there is '  
no provision for
such a procedure in Councils con
stitution, the absentee ballots were 
outlawed.
All but one of the candidates 
for Student Council last year were 
members of a political machine, i 
said John Fondrk, Dormicom rep\ 
resentative. This lone cam! 
paigner did not win a seat, and j 
under the present system neither ! 
will anyone else who doesn't have 
a party organization.
Third Not Represented
In every election the fraternii 
ties vote a pattern that excludes ! 
all others. One-third of the stu! 
dent body is not represented as a 
result. The Hare System will in
sure the minority of having a 
voice in school government.
A protest was overruled when 
Mr. Fondrk stated, Council mem
bers affiliated with a social fra
ternity are not allowed to vote for 
the Hare System, those who are 
not so instructed, feel it a moral 
duty to follow the will of their 
fraternities.
Ted Goodson, elected last year 
on Dormicons ticket, said, I think 
Council would be kept less poli
tical by adopting the Hare system. 
Persons elected on a non-political 
platform represent the students 
the way they want to be repre
sented.
System Again Tabled
Councilman Jack Stewart told 
Council that since the Hare Sys
tem had been
hashed over in %,
Student Council /
for the past ,
three years it v
was time the -Ilk. 
matter was ' <?
brought to a
members voted
cue to a vote, 
and 11 against,
President Sinclair wras required to 
break the tie. In order to permit 
more discussion he voted nega
tive.
The Hare system should be in
stalled to give all interested stu
dents a chance at holding an of
fice regardless of affiliation, 
maintained John Price, another 
Dormicom representative. At that 
point it was decided unanimous
ly to table the motion for one 
week.
Blanket Constitution
The same constitution approved 
for the class of 53 will be pre
sented to each succeeding class 
to which they may add amend
ments to suit their individual situ
ations. The class reorganization 
committee also reported that cam
paigning for a freshman office may 
start today and carry on through 
next Monday.
In response to the explosive 
letter criticizing Councils set-up, 
the plans and programs commit -
make a long survey of the true 
purpose of Student Council. They 
also announced two other points 
for immediate correction.
Connections Made
First, any council member who 
plans to present an issue involv
ing a campus group will have a 
representative of that activity 
present at that Council meeting. 
Second, at each weekly meeting 
of the committee the chairman of 
one of the two standing commit
tees will be invited to discuss the 
functions of his committee.
Duke Bridge Club 
Challenges Skibos
Duquesne University Bridge 
Club invites all Tech students to 
a Contract or Duplicate Bridge 
Contest on December 11, 1949 and 
April 16, 1950 on a home to home 
basis. The club w'ould like to 
know whether Contract or Dupli
cate Bridge is preferred. The Club 
would like to be notified of the 
convenient time and place. All 
those interested contact Jack 
Stewart at CA. 1-3392-R.
Pi Tau Sigma 
ASME, IAE
Elect Officers
All three mechanical engineer
ing societies have held elections 
for the coming year.
Officers of Pi Tau Sigma in
clude Robert M. Lossee, president; 
Herman H. Riesmeyer, vice pres
ident; Wallace E. McKee, corres
ponding secretary; Karl E. Schendel, recording secretary; Howard 
W. Sine, treasurer; and Jack D. 
Mauersberg, alumni secretary.
American Society of Mechan
ical Engineers officers are William 
F. Fields, student chairman; 
Frank E. Becker, vice chairman: 
and Charges C. Gerding, secretary-treasurer.
Institute of Aeronautical Engi
neers officers are James E. Chikar, president; Robert D. Haberstroh, vice president; Daniel L. 
Harshman, secretary; and James 
H. Ritchie, treasurer.
Lets go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice (ream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5806 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hilt
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 2: . ; j cf the Allies
Patronize Our 
Advertisers
Fondrk
Major Sef Wa//, Harvard, 40 
Ffym Executive, (/.S. d/rForce!
Born in Newark, N. J., he moved to 
Boston at an early age, graduated from 
the public Latin high school in 1936, en
tered Harvard the same year, where he 
majored in economics and government.
Assigned to anti-sub patrol duty, he flew 
B-25s and B-17s before going overseas 
in 1944, where he flew 30 missions as a 
B-24 pilot. Shot down over Germany, 
he was a prisoner of war for 3 months.
Active on the campus  he played 
football, earned his letter on the boxing 
team. He worked part-time in a variety 
of jobs from bouncer to baby sitter, 
received his AB degree in 1940.
Back in the States with his English wife, 
he earned his Regular commission. Then 
he returned to Harvard under the Air 
Force college training program, receiving 
his LLB degree in 1949.
He enrolled in Harvard Law School, left 
at the beginning of the war to become an 
Aviation Cadet. In December, 1942, ha 
won his pilots wings, received a Reserve 
commission as Second Lieutenant.
Now, he is confident about his future and 
security. As a pilot and legal officer of 
Bolling Air Force Base, D. C., Major Ed 
Wall is a typical U. S. Air Force flying 
executive . . . with a challenging career.
If you are single, between the ages of 20 
and with at least two years of college,
consider a flying career as an officer in the 
U. S. Air Force. You may be able to meet 
the high physical and moral requirements 
and be selected for training at an Aviation 
Cadet. If you do not complete Aviation 
Cadet training, you may return to civilian 
lif<% or have opportunity to train at Officer 
Candidate School for an important officer 
assignment in non-flying fields.
Air Force officer procurement teams ar 
visiting many colleges and universities to 
explain these career opportunities. Watch 
for their arrivalor get full details at your 
nearest Air Force Base, local recruiting 
station, or by writing to the Chief of Staff, 
U. S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet 
Branch, Washington 25, D. C.
U. S, AIR FORCE
ONLY THE BEST CAN BE AVIATION CADETS!
TAMAN' TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949 TAIWAN
Citcom Elects Frosh Members; 
Plan To Hold Twirp Dance
Freshman representatives to the executive board of the Citcom 
Clan were elected at the general Clan meeting Thursday, October 
14. Margaret Morrison freshman Ruth Graham and industrial ad
ministration freshman Robert Sittler were chosen by their classThe Traitor 
In Final Week 
At Playhouse
The topical and timely espion
age melodrama, The Traitor, 
moves into its fourth and final 
week at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
on Saturday evening.
This play, by Herman Wouk, 
which deals with atomic secrets, 
Soviet Agents, and Naval Intel
ligence, closes its run at the Play
house on October 29th. Following 
its Pittsburgh showing, the play 
will then tour to nearby com
munities during the first week of 
November.
The same cast and scenery as 
seen in the Playhouse produc
tion will be brought to these com
munities.
Oriental Theme 
In Art Exhibit
Far Eastern Prints, 
Figurines Planned
Oriental and far eastern art 
will be presented by the Tau Sig
ma Delta fraternity in an exhibi
tion of prints and figurines in the 
small exhibition room, Fine Arts, 
from October 24 to November 12.
Planned to coincide with both 
Homecoming weekend and Arts 
day which is to be observed on 
November 11, the exhibition will 
also feature recorded oriental 
music played in conjuction with 
the show. ,
This exhibition initiates Tau 
Sigma Deltas program for the 
years activities. A recently reac
tivated senior honorary for arch
itects and allied fields, the fra
ternity is planning to sponsor 
further activities'which may in
clude an assembly program, a ser
ies of lectures, and exhibitions of 
student work.
University Club 
To Be Scene 
Of Dorm Dance
Dorm Council will hold its first 
off campus dance of the year next 
Saturday at the University Club. 
Bill LeRoys orchestra will play 
for the cabal-et-style dance in the 
Alumni Room from nine to one.
Only dormitory men and their 
dates will be allowed at the dance. 
Admission willbe through regis
tration tickets, which will be 
checked against a roster of dorm 
residents.
mates to act on the board. Du-4 
ties of the voting representatives 
are to co-ordinate the actions of 
the Clan with the freshman class.
Cook Ineligible 
Activities chairman Jack Cook 
has become ineligible to hold of
fice on the execuxive board be
cause he has moved into the dorm. 
As yet he has not tendered his res
ignation but it is probable that he 
will continue in office for the re
mainder of the semester.
Although the private bus has 
been cancelled, members can get 
trans^brtation on the regular
buses chartered by the school. 
Firty tickets to the game are 
available so that Clansmen can 
sit together. The tickets may be 
puchased from executive board 
members.
Plans for a Twirp Dance will 
be discussed at the next general 
meeting. Clan girls will be in
charge ot au arrangements and 
will invite the boys. The execu
tive board will suggest Wednes
day, November 23, the beginning 
of Thanksgiving vacation, as a 
possible date for the dance.
L.&./Af.F.Taa&y Stoike Ateand fine 7o6acco
So round, so firm, so fully packed so free and easy on the draw
LUCKIES MY MORE
to give you a finer cigarette!
rDpU .N NS|.OOS .bONASWp bOMQ VNmAMD 
k.Qp FAeeASWp SE dSee.mp FSmD NC.W 
SEEAOA.e k.mANQ kmAODp ESm EAWD NS|.OOS!
Theres no finer cigarette in the world today than Lucky 
Strike! To bring you this finer cigarette, the makers of 
Lucky Strike go after fine, light, naturally mild tobacco 
and pay millions of dollars more than official 
parity prices to get it! So buy a carton of Luckies 
today,, See for yourself how much finer and smoother 
Luckies really arehow much more real deep-down 
smoking enjoyment they give you. Yes, smoke a Lucky!
Its a fiper, milder, more enjoyable cigarette!
L. MURRAY MANGUM, independent tobacco buyer 
of Oxford, N.C., says: Year after year, Ive seen 
the makers of Luckies buy the kind of tobacco that 
tastes good and smokes good! Mr." Mangum has 
smoked Luckies for 20 years. Heres more evidence 
that Luckies are a finer cigarette!

---------------------------------------------------

10TAOT*AIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949
When you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
Everybody talks about PLEASURE, but 
only ONE cigarette has really done something about it. 
That cigarette is Sucecs floocri
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Sucecs floocr is the ONE cigarette proved
definitely less irritating, definitely milder, Jjk
than any other leading brand.
NO OTHER CIGARETTE ^|
CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
SPECIAL SALE
Thursday - October 27
CRAIG-FORBES PHARMACY
>5c a0)y6V V*JU '0)J ')RP/ V*J
YOU'LL Bt GLAD TOMORROWf
YOU SMOKED RHIUP MORRIS TODAY I
Souvenirs for ALL
Dont Bother To Knock  
Because Mr. Shaffers Never In
The sign on his office door reads, Kent D. Shaffer, but if 
youre looking for him dont bother to knock; he wont be there.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 194911
HIGH STANDING 
IN EVERY STADIUM
Arrow oxford shirts are someR ) ) 0 l thing to stand up and cheer
about.
GORDON They boast the can't-beOXFORDS copied Arrow collar in buttondown, regular and widespread styles, are Mitoga 
tailored to fit and their anchored buttons and pre-tested, 
Sanforized fabric will give you long, satisfactory wear.
Arrow oxfords come in white and solid colors. See them 
today. $3.95.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
Make "BUD your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 1-2964
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Co-editors ........................................ George Schussler, Robert Ellstrom
Circulation Managers .. Richard Van Halinger, Anthony Barbarino 
Reporters ... Frank Mihelich, Allen Hemphire, LeRoy Stoutenburg, 
Jr., Hazel Moore, Michael Gittens, Marilyn Weiss, Harry Mattern
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
News
And
Views
Even though the cold weather 
refuses to visit us, the quizzes that 
periodically haunt evening stu
dents are upon us, and after the 
first subtle shock we know that 
another semester is well on its 
wTaj% and the prime motive now 
becomes to keep the marks above 
failure.
Incidentally Paul Brannen pass
ed out cigars the other evening to 
fellow students, the occasion being 
the birth of a son. Paul claims 
that the boy is destined for an en
gineering career.
The editors of the Plaid are 
planning to run a series of articles 
on various evening school instruc
tors, and from past experience 
this type of article has always 
proven interesting to the student 
body.
Former Evening Student Coun
cil president, and now an evening 
school instructor, Steve Marcinizyn, is realizing another dream 
come true. The new home he first 
planned on paper is taking final 
shape in structure. Within a few 
weeks the hous~ should be com
pleted.
From the fine response to our 
campus inquiries, we find that Phi 
Gamma Pi did an excellent job in 
supervising the womens tea, held 
Sunday, October 16th. As a token 
of appreciation Council has auth
orized this column to give the 
members of the sorority a double 
hurrah.
James Psihoulis, a member of 
the voice and speech I class, is an 
announcer on station WHOD 
Homestead, Pa., for the Grecian 
Melodies Program. James is also 
studying radio script writing and 
does the continuity for his pro
gram.
Roy Stoutenberg informs us that 
he finally obtained a car load of 
students for his trip to Cleveland 
to, watch Carnegie Tech play Case. 
At least its a beginning, and Roy 
is still keeping his invitation open 
to any evening student who would 
care to see Carnegie Tech play 
away from home. You can contact 
Roy by writing him a note in care 
of the Plaid, Box 256.
The play presented by the Dra
ma Department was plenty o.k. 
for this occasional theatre goer. 
Incidentally we might add that
Name Committee Heads 
To Increase interest
John Miller Named Social Chairman; 
Bogovieh Heads .Ticket Committee
The grouping of Evening Student Council members into com
mittees to act as a nucleus from which other evening school students 
can aid in extra-curricular activities was discussed in an article by 
Michael Gittens, Council president, in last weeks PLAID.
To make it possible for inter-#-----------------------------------------------------
ested students to contact mem
bers of any pai'ticular committee 
on which they might care to serve, 
the following committees are 
listed:
First Social
Successful
Social Chairman and Orchestra 
Committee: John Miller.
Decorations and Speaking Sys
tem Committee: Ray Schwalm,
chairman, Harry Lincoln, Charles 
Keller, George Dawes, A1 Snow
den.
Ticket and Door Committee: 
George Bogovieh, chairman, Dick 
Van Halanger, Mike Gittens, Mary 
Episcipo, Tony Barbarino.
Publicity and Invitation Com
mittee: Leroy Rowland, chairman, 
Bob Ellstrom, Betty Oberg.
Checking Committee: Frank
Mihelic, chairman, George Schuss
ler, Betty Williams.
Refreshment Committee: Will
Schnarrenberger, chairman, Tony 
Miscimarra.
Prizes and Program Commit
tee: Jim Frape, chairman, Byron 
May.
Clean Up Committee: All mem
bers of Evening Student Council.
Reminder
Final arrangements have 
been made for the Square 
Dance at Thistle Hall, October 
29. Music will be furnished by 
Si Braley and his orchestra 
with dancing: from 8:30 to
11:30. Tickets are available 
from Student Council members 
or at Mr. McKelways office in 
Industries hall.
evening students are entitled to 
two tickets to the performances 
presented by Carnegie Tech dra
ma department. Since there are 
only a limited number of tickets 
allotted to evening school, it is 
necessary to be prompt in asking 
for these tickets.
Fall Theme Motif 
At Reception Hall Tea
Everyone in attendance at the 
Womens Tea will agree that the 
first social event of the season 
turned out very successfully. It 
was a delightful afternoon of 
friendly get together and warm 
welcome to dear old Tech.
Especially active in the hearty 
welcome were Dean Campbell 
and Mrs. Goodfellow, both of 
whom spoke to the girls, urging 
them to take a larger interest in 
the evening school activities. Bet
ty Lakatos, president of the 
womens sorority, also said a few 
words about the sororitys affairs.
The theme of the tea was car
ried out in the autumn spirit. In 
the Reception Hall each girl re
ceived a brightly colored paper 
leaf with her name written on it 
to serve as an identification card. 
This proved to be a real aid in 
helping the new girls become bet
ter acquainted and learn the 
names of both the sorority mem
bers and the other guests. The ta
ble was also decorated in ac
cordance with the theme with a 
g a y 1 y lighted pumpkin and 
autumn leaves.
Tea, coffee, _ and refreshments 
were then served to approxi
mately fifty guests, and the mem
bers of Phi Gamma Pi proved 
themselves to be very congenial 
hostesses.
After the tea had been served, 
the girls either gathered in small 
groups and chatted or retired to 
the music room where they were 
entertained with singing.
Editorial
Still No Spirit!
Jenkins Arcade
Is a word to the wise sufficient? Apparently not, if we 
are to use the response to our plea for Student Council and 
Plaid Staff workers as the basis for judgement.
To the few, the very few, who answered our request for 
workers, we say thank you. To the ones who didn't reply Ave 
reiterate Wheres Your Spirit"? Surely there are among you 
a few more who could spare the time and energy to help share 
the burden of putting on the various social activities and events 
sponsored by your Evening Student Council.
The work is not too strenuous and it is a chance to know*
some of your fellow students better. It is also a chance to earn 
points towards an Insignia Award, annually awarded to those 
Mho have accrued a sufficient number of points from their extra
curricular work. '
To some of you this constant pounding may seem monot
onous, but if by repetition Ave are able to add to our list of 
Student Council and Plaid workers we will continue to drone 
on and on, on this same theme, until a satisfactory number of 
workers have been obtained.
Scotch Grain is Gr-rana! Anywhere, any weather!
Handsome, hefty, and thrifty ... shaped, as shown, 
into shoes of enduring beauty!
ma FREEMAN w
TB! rOOTWEAR OF SUCCESSFUL M BN
LEFT TO RIGHT 
BROGUE: Brawny 
pebble-grain; Brown 
$n>J5t
STREAMLINED 
Heavyweight: notch* 
welted double aolea; 
Brown $11.9)FREEMAN SU STORE

---------------------------------------------------

12TAOTAIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949
: STARRING t#
MR. SOFT TOUCH
A COlUMBfA PICTURE g|
/ /N AMERICAS COUEGfS 
' W/m THE TOP MSN !// SPORTS 
W/TH THE HOUYWOOO STARSThey're M/tffi/Meyte TOPS/-/"
Bulletin Board
,mDpNSW VCSQDm NS VkD.M 
*S JDEEDmpSW 'eb| VbWd.Q
Preston Shoyer will speak on 
The Mind Of China at the Jef
ferson Club meeting Sunday 
night.
Jefferson Club, an organization 
which is dedicated to the liberal 
principles advanced by Thomas 
Jefferson, is open to all collegeage persons, regardless of race, 
religion or creed.
The club is sponsored by the 
First Unitarian Church of Pitts
burgh. Meetings are held every 
Sunday evening at six oclock.
iDoF.W 'eb| *S vSed 
VSOA.e H ybpAWDpp LDDNAWg
Newman Club of Carnegie Tech 
will hold a business social on 
Friday, November 4, from 7:30 to 
12 at the Carnegie Union.
VRL *S vSed DApObppASW 
0W JS| 'e.ppAEAO.NASW
Job Classification, In Theory 
and Practice will be the subject 
of discussion by Mr. Samuel L. 
H. Burke at the next SAM meet
ing. Everyone is welcome to this 
meeting which' will be held to
morrow at 11:30 in EH 208.
Mr. Burke is now serving as 
the Director of Industrial Rela
tions for Pittsburgh Plate Glass 
Corporation.
ReDx *.b| *S VkD.M 
0W LDOC.WAO.e 0ON.WDp
At 8:00 p. m. tomorrow, the Socity of Automotive Engineers will 
sponsor a talk on Mechanical 
Octanes in the Mellon Institute. 
The speaker will be Mr. Alex 
Taub, who has been connected 
with the Automotive industry 
since 1906 and has been a mem
ber of S.A.E. since 1912.
Mr. Taub was educated in Eng
land and has had varied experi
ence with automotive research 
and development, both here and 
abroad. Since the war, he has or
ganized his own firm, Alex Taub 
Associates, of which he is con
sulting engineer.
Refreshments will be served at 
6:00 p. m. followed by a dinner at 
6:30 p. m. at the ballroom, Web
ster Hall. The cost of the dinner 
will be $3.00.
Dm.F. VDWASm *S DAmDON 
rL I lvR ,e.QCSbpD VCSop
Robert Nathe, a senior in Car
negies drama department, has 
been appointed the new director 
of dramatics at the YM&WHA 
playhouse.
First show of the 1949-50 sea
son will be Jan deHartogs power
ful drama Skipper Next To God. 
Readings for the roles in this 
play will be held this week at the 
YM&WHA club room on South 
Bellefield Ave. Anyone interested 
should call the playhouse at MA. 
1-6500.
Cheez> it, Da Cops!
The Pittsburgh police depart
ment wishes to advise CIT stu
dents that action will be taken 
against campus parking viola
tors. The worst offenders are 
those parked on the curve near 
the gym in Margaret Morrison 
street and the Machinery hall 
end of Frew street.
3-HOUR SERVICE 
On Dry Cleaning
RAINCOATS
Vv0l6) ,)00a6D
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
>t& aSm|Dp VNJ
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY 
washed and dried
Same Day 
Service
SHIRTS
washed and finished
"SMOKE Ml CIGARETTE. . . 
MILDER CHESTERFIELD"
Sorority Pledges
EContinued from page 1]
Ann Austin, Mary Carazola, 
Nancy Godden, Ruth Jackson, 
Aline Kerr, Peggy Ann McCaul, 
Claire McKee, Jean Miller, Do
lores Mitchell, Joy Ostergaard, 
Suzanne Richard, Mary Ann Wil
son.
Sigma Kappa: Agnes Agnello, 
Catherine Coleman, Patricia Cur
tin, Ann Marie Diminf^ Shirley 
Fatula, Marjorie Kepple, Helen 
Halkas, Joan Suchy.
1949, JjcctTT ft Mrui Enterrn ClX
