The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 3_________ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942... ... . ................. ..... -............. .......... ..... . ...................... .... ....
CAMPUS QUEEN CANDIDATES
Record Breaking Vote Expected Today To Select Tech's Favorite. Result To 
Be Announced At Mortar Board Tea Dance at 5:30. See Story on Page 3.
Sara GehrettMaureen Dyer
Marianna Hogg
Barbara Burns
Suzanne OBrienLucille Orr
Martha Sekey Mary Ellen Smith Marjorie Weatherwax Louise Zonge

---------------------------------------------------

_2__________________________
JeeM. % *7<4e dUo*.
THE OABNEQIE TARTAN_______________________TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942
*7<4c fyacuy fUiewfuai*U
Dorm Council Replies
Editor-in-Chief 
The Tartan 
Dear Sir:
In the last issue of the Tartan an editorial appeared concerning hazing 
in the dormitories. Since we feel that this article was altogether prejudic
ed and misleading we are asking for space to print our side of the question.
To highlight your attack you printed a picture of the one violent haz
ing incident that has occurredrepresenting this as an everyday occur
rence. The whole was backed up with three year old quotations. Had you 
asked us, you would have found Dorm Council just as much opposed as 
yourself to this type of hazing. And a little investigation would have 
shown you that the freshman regulations now enforced in the dorms are 
not of the nature referred to in your quotation.
This year, in order to have the freshmen take a more active part in 
dormitory life, a new orientation program has been set up. Through both 
a social program and a system of regulations, it has attempted to get the 
pieces to know the upperclassmen and to make them realize that fun as 
well as hard work can be had at Tech. The regulations have consisted of 
a list of dos and donts, the violation of which is punishable at Plebe 
Trials. From the trials have come such typical sentences as work session 
on Fall Carnival booths or the blowing of reveille for a number of morn
ings. Sentences such as these are hardly humiliating or degrading. The 
whole system has not been set up by a group of morons, as you would have 
the campus believe, but rather by the most responsible members of Dorm 
Council.
The results have justified the programth,e freshmen are taking a far 
greater interest in dorm life than any other class before them.
Do you know how the plebes feel about it? In a secret ballot vote held 
after your editorial appeared, 75 per cent of the 65 freshmen voting ap
proved the dormitory regulations.
Sincerely yours,
Mens Dormitory Council.
Mr. Wines Viewpoint
Editor, Carnegie Tartan 
Dear Sir:
Approximately five hundred freshmen entered Tech this September 
to begin their college education. As to how many will finish, your guess is 
as good as the next fellows. Under any circumstance does it not seem 
peculiar that such childish horseplay as hazing still exists on the campus 
of a progressive a school as Carnegie Tech? Under present world condi
tions this idiotic practice is even less appropriate.
Why. not help the freshman adjust himself to his new environment 
rather than permitting him to be embarrassed and harassed by a group 
of bullies who have a perverted idea of their own importance?
The vicious circle of hazing was stopped in the fall of 1939 when the 
sophomores of the class of 42 discontinued this kid stuff. Now those who 
were subjected to no plebe trials themselves have revived a moronic prac
tice which is too juvenile to exist at the majority of other colleges (not to 
mention high schools). This is not scuttlebut but fact based on a sur
vey made in the summer of 1939.
In their own little way, our local Mussolinis believe they are aiding 
the freshmen and bolstering school spirit. Why dont they expend their 
energies conducting smokers, parties, and informal get-togethers thus en
abling the freshmen to meet their own classmates and upperclassmen? 
If such a policy is followed, the freshmen will really appreciate Tech. 
A substantial start in this direction was made last year, and it is discour
aging to find that conditions have reverted to the standards existing prior 
to 1939.Sincerely yours,
Paul T. Wines.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MJMMMNTKO POM NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY After Office HOUrS Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief..........................sc. 9855
o .V. "** Mana*.........................SC. 9855
ThTeC a rCn gC ii  iCn teVhn  su ol.lTVnTC Adertising Manager..................BR. 4759
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price SI.06 per year.
Editor-in-Chief.............................................................................................. Leonard Chotiner
Business Manager.................................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors...............................................................................................William C. King
Jack ShoreCo-Copy Editors.....................................................................................................Walter W. Haller
Stanley A. RosecransStaff Secretaries................................... .............................................................................Pat Elman
Jeanne King
Sports Editor..................................................................................................................Don Watkins
Personnel Manager...............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
Advertising Manager.............................................................................................Wilbur Thomas
Circulation Manager..............................................................................................Seymore Weiss
Staff Artist..............................................................  .................. .................................Elliott Twery
Staff Photographer...................................................................................................Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosencrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler. 
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.
Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Harry Weiss.
System of Checks and Balances Blamed 
For Bungling War Emergency Issues
With this article by Mr. Bayard we introduce a new column that we 
hope will remain a regular feature of the Tartan. Each week a different 
member of the faculty will be given an opportunity to express his views on 
the current political or economic scene. We find Mr. Bayards article pro
vocative and submit it for your approval.
The Editorial Board.
In effect this is what President small measure responsible for many 
Roosevelt said to the Congress: If of the less desirable features of our 
you do not make your contribution political system. They account in
to the vital program of stabilizing Pfr for the P?orly wr,iten', . , , ,  , . gled, compromise legislation withthe general price level by October pressure group riders which only a
1st, I will take full responsibility president with a bagful of patronand do it myself. age can hope to grapple with.
Senator La Follette is reported to Likewise, these features of the
have said that the October 1st ulgovernmental structure are partly,. ,  . , n i S  4. i responsible for the condition of thetimatum virtually placed a pistol , f political parties. The dominantat Congress s head. Completely parties do not stand for principles, 
missing an important social issue in A Pennsylvania Republican does 
characteristic fashion Senator Taft not make a congenial bedfellow for 
issued a narrow, ultralegalistic a Republican senator from the farmstatement on the powers of the legbelt. The American major party is 
islative and executive branches of not an effective policy making instithe government. Even the New tution. Parties are split wide open
York Herald Tribune, which can on policies as Congressional votes
hardly be characterized as a friend show. The major parties are highof the Administration, commends ly developed patronage-getting dethe President editorially and devices. It is in this field that they 
scribes the Congress as imbedded in operate with alertness, energy and 
the traditionalism and petty polipercision, not in the formulation of 
tics which still make it the least efpublic policies, 
ficient, most patently inadequate ^ trend appears to be one of
arm of the government at the very increasing the burdens and responmoment when an effective legislasibilities of the Federal govemtive branch is most urgently rement. A really successful outcome quired. of thewar for the United States 
What we have really seen is anmay well mean the assumption of 
other illustration of the inadequalarge international responsibilities, 
cies of a form of government basif we are to win the peace the 
ed on separation of powers interlacUnited States may have to assume 
ed with a system of checks and baljn part the role in international 
ances. Whatever can be said for affairs that England has played for 
the moderation and mature considthe last several hundred years, 
eration,' which are supposed to reWith the power of the Senate in forsult from such a system, fades in eign affairs it is difficult to see how 
practice into the background when a foreign policy can be conducted, 
action is called for and when govThe number of men involved in 
ernment assumes increasingly the making policy alone makes that difresponsibility for the successful opficult. The Atlantic Charter calls 
eration of the economic and social f0r freedom from want. This may 
system. As a well-known British involve a high degree of internal 
statesman said, it is impossible to economic planning and control in 
find one single place where final order to keep the economic machine 
power and responsibility reside in running at a high level of employthe American governmental organment. In both the domestic and 
ization. No business enterprise foreign fields new and increased 
could long be conducted on these burdens face the Federal governlines. In spite of this situation the ment.
president has to take much of the rpj^ question posed is whether
responsibility regardless of whether certain basic features of our form
he has the corresponding power. government make it well adapted
After all it must not be forgotten to assume and exeCute the heavy 
that the farmers of the American economic and social responsibilities 
constitution were undoubtedly inthat seem to confront it. If not, 
fluenced by Montesquieu s mistaken now is the time to think aW it 
interpretation of the British constirather than wait until a breakdown 
tutional system. with its inevitable tension and turIn spite of the sad exhibition of moil and risk to the democratic 
the operation of the parliamentary form of government. It must not 
system in France there is much to be forgotten that historically debe said for executive responsibility mocracies have been short-lived, 
to the legislative body. There are This column does not advocate
distinct advantages in being able to the parliamentary system of govput the executive on the carpet and ernment for the United States. That 
force him to justify his acts, not would be premature on the part of 
once in four years but as often as the writer. It does, however, raise 
the situation warrants. There are the question of the adequacy of ceralso advantages in dismissing from tain features of our political organoffice an executive who no longer ization to carry the probable burcommands the confidence v of the dens of the future. The issue is 
legislative body. vital to everyone. In fact it is so
But we do have a separation of vital that the specialist in any field 
powers among the several branches cannot afford to ignore it. It is to 
of the government and it is coupled such problems as this that the Sowith checks and balances. These cial Relations program is no small 
structural characteristics are in no measure owes justification.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
*7'ecU'l Obstacle GouAAe.
X2)P0Vttm
 ftyie Climb
 A, 
<m> <W
\ 
\
I  ChfcklCV V>oatrJ 
itv  S.MW.II
V;-@-rN
-1 5 !"
* I I 
 ! ' L J---- *-
I
I*. 1-
SiodMt* Sliity / JyL--^
Hw^t#
A map of the obstacle course, now under construction on the campus.
l/fp. 'n At 'Cm!
School To Build Obstacle Race 
For ROTC and Gym Students
Pride & Prejudice 
Opens Play Season
The first dramatic production of 
the year, to run from October 1 
through the 8th, will be a play bas
ed on Jane Austens novel, Pride 
and Prejudice. This play repre
sents something new in the line of 
plays which are presented periodi
cally in the Little Theater in that 
the actors parts are almost exactly 
the reverse of what they normally 
take. James Schmitt, for instance 
plays the role of a sophisticated 
English gentlemana far cry from 
the tough guy roles he normally 
takes.
The play is a comedy based on 
the conflict of a womans pride and 
a mans prejudice. The meeting of 
the two provides a fast-moving, rol
licking tale of a Victorian romance. 
To make it all the better, this play 
is studded with some of our best 
dramatsSepta Sanderson, a com
ing character actress, takes the role 
of an ingenue; Marianne Brown, 
Hermione in Winters Tale, 
turns from drama to comedy as a 
fussy flutterbudget (as one of the 
dramats aptly put it).
The play is arranged in three sets, 
the feature item being the mag
nificent array of Empire costumes, 
especially designed for this partic
ular prduction by the Painting and 
Design department. Production was 
directed by the new drama profes
sor, Robert Gill, who is fresh from 
success on Broadway.
Pi D E Sponsors 
Contest For Best 
Published Stories
Carnegie chapter of Pi Delta Ep
silon, mens national journalistic 
honorary fraternity, is sponsoring a 
contest for the best article or news 
story published during the school 
year in any Carnegie Tech publica
tion.
Selection of the story to receive 
the award will be made by a faculty 
committee which will judge the 
outstanding stories of the year sub
mitted by the editors of each pub
lication. The award (purchased 
before the onset of priorities) will 
be given at Call Day exercises at 
Spring Carnival.
The regulations for the contest 
are:
1. Since the contest is for the 
purpose of improving the quality of 
writing in campus publications, all 
entries must have been written for 
publication by a student of Car
negie Tech and must have been 
published in one of the recognized 
Carnegie Tech publications during 
the school year of 1942-43.
2. The editor of each publica
tion will submit not more than 
three articles, newstories, poems, or 
other features published in their 
publications to the chairman of the 
Pi Delta Epsilon contest committee. 
In addition, any student may sub
mit an article of their authorship 
for consideration if it has not been 
submitted by their editor.
3. Final selection will be made 
by a faculty committee.
4. All entries must be submit
ted to Mel Snyder before March 26, 
1943 in-the form of two clippings of 
the article submitted.
Cheer up, students, there are ex
citing times ahead! The adminis
tration has concocted an idea which 
will take the drudgery and monot
ony out of campus life. The Phys
ical Education and R. O. T. C. De
partments have consolidated in the 
planning and construction of an 
obstacle course. The purpose be
hind this is to help bring every Tech 
student up to the physical stand
ards of the United States armed 
forces. Mr. Moses of the Physical 
Education Department took a coach
ing course this summer at Chapel 
Hill school for pre-flight navy stu
dents. Here he got many ideas 
which he incorporated into our 
obstacle trail.
The track is a veritable labyrinth. 
It begins at the bottom of the steps 
by Margaret Morrison that lead to 
the bowl, swings in a wide arc be
hind the Grill and through the 
parking lot, winds through the 
jungle behind the girls dorms, 
runs past the hydraulics lab and the
Army Enlisted Reserve 
May Be Called To Duty
No clarification on the War De
partments announcement of its in
tention to call to active duty all col
lege student members of the Army 
Enlisted Reserve as they reach the 
draft age has, as yet, been receiv
ed by Techs Military Department.
The order as stated is believed 
not applicable to those students who 
are in the Advanced Course of the 
R. O. T. C. since these men are not 
a part of the Pre-Induction Pro
gram. However, students in the 
Pre-Induction Program of the Army 
Enlisted Reserve would be subject 
to the order as now interpreted.
bowl again, ascends behind the ten
nis courts up to the upper level of 
the cut, and then zig-zags back to 
the starting point.
Along the way there are ladders 
and ropes to ascend and descend, 
hills to climb, hurdles of all sizes to 
leap, and walls to scale that would 
make a marine shudder. There are 
fences to vault, pits and traps to 
leap, and tunnels to crawl through 
that would make a commando turn 
pale. There are log piles to hurdle, 
logs to slide under, log jungle 
jims to pass and checkerboarded 
logs which can be passed safely 
only by a wary Tech student.
The obstacles are spread at ap
propriate intervals along the length 
of the course. The student will at 
first encounter only part at a time 
and will take it slowly. Later on 
speed will be an important factor. 
It is already under construction, 
and will be just a part of the new 
physical education program to be 
inaugurated here.
Mortar Board Gives 
War Stomp Today
Following the mood of the times, 
Mortar Board is sponsoring a War 
Stomp at Thistle Hall this after
noon from four to six oclock. Dance 
music by your favorite orchestra 
will be provided by the juke-box 
and the Dragons will serve the re
freshments  something unsual in 
social functions of this type.
Mortar Board, the sponsor of this 
entertainment, is the senior honor
ary society for women, while the 
Dragon society is the senior honor
ary for men.
Carrying out the patriotic theme, 
door prizes of one dollar war 
stamps will be awarded to the hold
ers of the lucky numbers.
Campus Queen to 
Reign at Carnival
Today at 11:30, the entire student 
body will elect Techs annual cam
pus queen. Polls will be situated 
in the main halls of Arts, Industries 
and Margaret Morrison. The eleven 
candidates, chosen in the primaries 
last Tuesday, are Barbara Bums, 
Christina Clinton, Maureen Dyer, 
Sally Gehrett, Marianna Hogg, 
Suzanne OBrien, Lucille Orr, Mar
tha Sekey, Mary Ellen Smith, Mar
jorie Weatherwax, and Louise 
Zonge.
The winner will be crowned Sat
urday afternoon in the Sylvan The
ater. Her maids of honor at the 
ceremony will be the ten runnersup. Jim Boyce, as bishop, has 
charge of the coronation. In the 
event of rain the ceremony will be 
held in the mens gymnasium.
After the ceremony, the queen 
will preside over Call Day. Among 
those organization planning to take 
part are Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, 
musical honorary; Tau Beta Pi, en
gineering fraternity; Eta Kappa Nu, 
electrical engineering honorary and 
O. D. K., formerly the Dragon So
ciety, senior mens honorary.
Carnegie Techs second annual 
Fall Carnival opens on Friday eve
ning with a street dance. Coney 
Island Night will be the theme of 
this first event. Several campus or
ganizations plan to have novelty 
and refreshment booths on the Cut. 
A ferris wheel and a swing will add 
to the Coney Island atmsophere.
On Saturday afternoon at 1:30 
a Mens Jalopy Race followed by a 
Girls Novelty Skating Stakes is 
scheduled. Chairman of the com
mittee is Jack Van Arsdell. The ja
lopies entered in the race may con
tain no materials which might in
stigate tension with the W. P. B. 
Three girls will constitute a team in 
the skating stakes which is to be 
run in relays between Administra
tion Hall and the Bulletin Board on 
the Cut. Each girl must carry an 
egg on a tablespoon. If any girl 
drops the egg she must return to 
her starting point and begin again 
with another egg. For a complete 
set of rules see Mr. Van Arsdell. 
Awards for the races will be pre
sented by the campus queen.
An informal dance on Saturday 
night is the final event on the Fall 
Carnival schedule. Gene Krupa, the 
nations top drummer and his band 
will furnish the music. Sharing the 
spotlight with Krupa are Anita 
ODay, lovely songstress, Ray Eberle, formerly with Glenn Miller, 
and Roy Eldridge, trumpet wizard.
Popular Pastor To 
Speak At Cliapel
Reverend Stillman Foster, DD, 
the new pastor of the Third Presby
terian Church will speak at the first 
chapel of the year. It will be held 
on Tuesday, September 15 at 11:30 
in the Little Theatre in the Fine 
Arts College.
This Chapel program will be the 
first of the year. Dr. Foster was 
chosen as the speaker for this 
chapel because of the reception he 
received when he spoke at the Y. 
M. C. A. Banquet held for Fresh
men boys during Freshmen week. 
This is one of the student assemblies 
which the Freshman Regulations 
prescribe for Plebe attendance.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942
one of the boys
Max Aero Williams is one of 
those idle seniors who has nothing 
to do all day but be editor of the 
Technical, president of Interhonorary Council, president of Tau Beta 
Pi, and a Lieutenant Colonel in 
ROTC. In his spare time he is a 
member of Citcoms Executive 
Board, Theta Tau, Scabbard and 
Blade, Institute of Aeronautic Sci
ences, Dragons, Phi Kappa Phi, 
Glee Club, and the Chapel Choir.
When he isnt sailing paper air
planes (theres something about an 
Aero), he is playing bridge, 
which is, in the words of the wiz
ard, a great game. He doesnt how
ever, forsake this sailing mania. Last 
summer, he visited Deep Creek 
Lake in Oakland, Maryland, for a 
sporting sojourn with the good 
craft, Redsails. Because of his in
experience in the culinary art, he 
developed a taste for canned chili, 
and we dont mean chilly. Hell 
take a generous helping of hot sea
soning with a slight dash of the del
icacy itself.
As a Dragon, Max makes a good 
advertisement for a tea dance or 
any affair that requires his wearing 
a Dragon crew cap. Course the hat
... Max Williams
is no more than six sizes too large 
for him, but it brings results, es
pecially when he is trying to sell 
tickets for the tea dance. There
is nothing like wearing a Dragon 
crew cap to meet the freshman 
women, says he. This confirms his 
contention that variety is the spice 
of life and that his only love is the 
Technical. I wonder if she dances.
With his first million Max is plan
ning to build a library for Tech. In 
view of Maxs ability to succeed in 
his every undertaking, the library 
is practically assurred.
Freshmen Elections 
Slated For Sept. 29; 
Petitions Due Earlymf
The following elections will be 
held September 29, 1942 from 11:30- 
1:30. Petitions for offices must be 
turned in at the Student Council 
office, Carnegie Union, before 4:30 
P. M. on September 25, 1942.
Margaret Morrison College
Polling Place  Margaret Morri
son BuildingFirst floor.
Freshman Elections  All Fresh
men Vote  President, Secretary, 
Treasurer, Senate Representative.
Sophomore ElectionAll Sopho
mores Vote  Representative to 
Margaret Morrison Senate.
College of Engineering
Polling Place  Administration 
HallFirst Floor.
Freshman Election  All Fresh
men Vote  President, Secretary, 
Treasurer.
College of Fine Arts
Polling PlacesFine Arts Build
ingFirst Floor.
Freshman Election  All Fresh
men Vote  President, Vice Presi
dent (girl), Secretary, Treasurer.
Whole School VotesVice Presi
dent of Fine Arts Senate.
R. O. T. C* Training 
Program Instituted
With the first of the R. O. T. C. 
drills last Thursday, the members 
of the Tech R. O. T. C. battalion 
soon realized that a new training 
program is being instituted. The 
Thursday afternoon drill hour, of
ficially called the Leadership Hour, 
will be in complete charge of the 
cadet officers. Among other things, 
they will have the right to give de
merits and grades.
According to Capt. Wm. Shaffer 
of the Military Department, this 
drill hour on Thursday will con
tinue for the entire semester. Dur
ing the winter months when it is 
impossible to conduct drill out-ofdoors, the Cadet Officers will con
duct classes in several subjects. The 
classes will include physical train
ing in the gymnasium, movies, film 
strips, lectures, and hikes. Two 
classes which are definitely new to 
the Tech campus are the stripping 
and re-assembling of the Garand 
rifle, and in the making of field roll 
packs. The new program will also 
contain a series of calisthenics for 
all R. O. T. C. students as well as 
exercises on an obstacle-race course.
Assembly Program 
Starts Sept. 22
Prof. L. H. Schultz, chairman of 
the Assembly and Chapel Commit
tee, has announced Tuesday, Sep
tember 22, as the date of the first 
general assembly. This years as
semblies, held every Tuesday at 
11:30 in the Fine Arts Theatre, will 
be of two types: the general as
sembly, sponsored by Student Coun
cil, campus organizations, or by the 
different colleges; and the chapel 
meetings under the direction of the 
Y. M. C. A.
Professor Gregg of the faculty, 
Bob Reisacher representing Student 
Council, and Interhonorary Council 
President Max Williams, who com
pose Prof. Schultzs committee, 
stress the fact that the Tuesday 
morning assemblies can serve a use
ful purpose and still be very at
tractive During the past, the com
mittee has tried to find out just 
what type of program the student 
body is interested in. This year, 
they are inviting any written sug
gestions as to programs and speak
ers from Tech students. Sugges
tions should be addressed to Bob 
Reisacher, care of the Tech Post Of
fice.
Two of the outstanding personal
ities presented last year were Doran 
Meredith, famous traveler of Mex
ico, and Harrison Richardson, 
youngest member of the Byrd Ant
arctic Expedition. When Mr. Rich
ardson produced some of his expe
dition equipment, the Little The
atre, complete with students wear
ing skiis, snow-shoes, and fur-lined 
boots, looked like the Tech branch 
of Little America.
Tech Discussion Group
The Carnegie Discussion Group 
today will sponsor a discussion on 
Possible Peace Settlements After 
the War, at 12:30 in the Seminar 
Room, Room 229C, Industries Build
ing. Webster Jones, Jr., will be 
chairman of the discussion. All 
Carnegie students are urged to at
tend.
This club, holding meetings for 
the first time last year, completed 
a very successful program. The 
problems of the war, the plight of 
Britain, and the labor situation 
were a few of the interesting topics 
discussed.
This year, evidently stripped by 
the Social Relations course of its 
prejudices concerning women, the 
discussion group for the first time 
admit women into its circles.
SYRIA
MOSQUEMau eeaJU Concenti
Seven
Evenings
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10LA BOHEME OPERA
Metropolitan Cast and Orchestra 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16RACHMANINOFF
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5MONTE CARLO BALLET
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16HELEN TRUBEL
Worlds Foremost Soprano 
"Magnetizes Audience with her Voice
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23RUSSIAN DON COSSACKS
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19CARMEN AMAYA
And Company of South American Dancers and 
Musicians
FRIDAY, MARCH 19LAWRENCE TIBBETT
The net proceeds from the Tibbett Concert will 
be donated to the Army Emergency Relief Fund
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE SALE OPENS 
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 12
Prices $5.00, $6.00, $7.50 and $8.50
To secure these rates secure an identification card from your school 
and present at box office at Mellors Music Store, 604 Wood Street 
between 9 and 5 daily (except 11:00 and 11:30 lunch-time).
Course tickets for 7 events, $7, $7.50, $9.50, $12.50, $15.50, $18.75 and 
$20.00 (plus tax) at May Beegle Offices, 551 Union Trust Building, 
and Mellors, 604 Wood Street. Early reservations advised.. ATlantic 3051 and ATlantic 3783.
Consult box office for special combination rates on
TIBBETT
Concetti
By Visiting Orchestras 
Pittsburgh Orchestra Association 
Auspices
Mrs. William Thaw, Jr., President 
May Beegle, Manager 
1942Twenty-seventh Season1943 
Four Concerts at Syria Mosque
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
ORMANDY, Conductor
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12BOSTON SYMPHONY
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 13, AT 3 P. M.BOSTON SYMPHONY
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
(Different Program) 
SATURDAY, MAY 1PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
ORMANDY, Conductor
(REQUEST PROGRAM)
Special Student Rates for the 
Visiting Orchestras 
$1.20, $1.25, $2.20, $2.30, $3.10 and $4.40
Course tickets for 4 events, $2, $2.50, 
$3.00, $3.50, $4.50, $6. $9 and $12.
both series.
eMcUl
JleduSieA.
Four Evenings at Carnegie 
Music Hall
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4FULTON LEWIS, JR.
Americas No. 1 Commentator on National 
Affairs.
SubjectWhats Happening in Washington 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17DOROTHY THOMPSON
Brilliant Journalist and Molder of Public 
Opinion.
SubjectThese Crucial Day**' 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8PIERRE VAN PAASSEN
Celebrated Foreign Correspondent and Author
Days of Our Years, The Time is Now 
That Day Alone
SubjectThe War of the Hemispheres 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17MARGARET BOURKE-WHITE
One of Worlds Greatest Photographers 
Recently returned from Russia 
SubjectEyes on RussiaIllustrated.
All Lectures Will Be Followed by 
QUESTION & ANSWER Period
POPULAR PRICES: Series $6.00. $5.00, $4.00,
$3.00, $2.00. Tickets for Individual Events 75c 
to $1.50; except for Dorothy Thompson prices 
will be $1.00 to $2.00.
(Add 10% tax to all series and single prices.) 
Sale NOW at May Beegle Office, 551 Union 
Trust Building, ATlantic 3051. and Mellors, 
604 Wood Street, ATUntic 3783.
ACCLAIMED A REAL NEED FOR PITTSBURGH
CARAVAN SCHOOL
OF
THEATRE ARTS
SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE USE 
EXPERTLY THE ACTORS 
TOOLS . . .
JOHDi?^tOTATTI6 BODY . . . SPEECH . . . MIND
COURSE OF STUDY: Acting TechniqueBody TrainingVoice and SpeechStage 
ManagingRadio TechniqueMarionette ProductionsArt of Photography Color 
Appreciation.
 Gray Production Theatre  Special Evening Classes
With Revolving Stage Catalogue Mailed on Request
4616 FORBES ST. Telephones SC. 51465299
Theatre auditorium available for special events to all Tech groups

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942THE CARNEGIE TAKTAfl5
tUWaCGAti to ItUUfGAM
Andrew Vadasz Was Delegate At 
International Student Assembly
Andrew Vadasz, E. E. 43, regis
tered at the International Student 
Assembly in Washington last week 
as chairman of the Hungarian dele
gation and Carnegie Tech observer. 
This assembly was under the aus
pices of an organization called the 
International Students Service and 
was a gathering of 250 youths of 53 
countries.
The International Student Serv
ice was founded in Geneva in 1920 
to assist in rehabilitating the uni
versity community of Europe. In 
later years, through its internation
al conferences and publications, I. 
S. S. provided a meeting ground 
where students from many nations 
could discuss their common prob
lems. It has devoted much of its 
energies to helping the student vic
tims of fascism continue their ed
ucation in democratic lands, and 
has aided in bringing relief to stu
dent prisoners of war. In the U. 
S., the committee has broadened 
its program in order to mobilize 
American students for more effec
tive participation in the war effort 
and in the labors of post-war re
construction.
The International Student As
sembly represents an effort to ac
complish the same ends as the U. S. 
Committee on an international 
sclae. It brings together students 
from many nations in order that 
they may achieve a clearer com
prehension of the purpose that unite 
the free peoples, and mobilize fuller 
support behind these purposes.
These students met with the idea 
that this Second World War is a 
reflection of basic social forces that 
must be understood if victory is to 
be gained which will lead to a more 
stable and just world order. The 
Assembly afforded students an op
portunity to discuss immediate 
tasks in the framework of the larg
er, underlying issues. Through an 
exchange of experiences the As
sembly provided a better under
standing of the contribution that 
the academic community can make 
toward victory.
Techite Andrew Vadasz was pres
ent at all of the more important con
ferences and activities of the fourday meeting. As head of his Hun
garian delegation, he was among 
the forty-five representatives invit
ed to the White House to hear Pres
ident Roosevelt make his world
wide radio address about the As
sembly. Vadasz was among the 
students who were personally in
troduced to the President. Andrew 
was also one of the students who, 
during the course of the sessions, 
made short-wave broadcasts over 
the nations four net-works to their
Masitlta Rode
STUDIOS
Studio Hours 
10 A. M.10 P. M. DailySundays 
MOntrose 7251
EVERY TYPE OF DANCING 
PRIVATE and CLASS 
STUDIOS:
Downtown, East Liberty, Homestead, Pitcairn 
EAST LIBERTV STUDIO and Residence 
266 Shady Avenue
MO. 7251 Residence: EM. 4222
home countries.
This conference was addressed 
by such dignitaries as President 
Roosevelt, Mrs. Roosevelt, Walter 
Nash, Hu Shih, George Fielding 
Eliot, and many other government 
and college officials. The meetings, 
which were held in the Department 
of Labor Auditorium, and repre
sentatives from countries includ
ing Breat Britain, Russia and China 
were flown to Washington by 
special planes.
A. P.O. Holds Smoker 
Thursday in Union
Alpha Phi Omega, national serv
ice, fraternity, invites all Scouts 
and former Scouts to a smoker to be 
held in the Carnegie Union, Thurs
day evening at 8 oclock.
The Carnegie Tech chapter of A. 
P. O. is planning an evening of en
tertainment featured by motion pic
tures of Tech football games. 
Doughnuts and cider will be served 
as refreshments.
Among the activities of the Kap
pa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega are 
a second-hand bookstore, a guide 
seryice for visitors, an information 
service for Freshmen, and travel 
service for those going out of town 
for vacations.
Caravan School Opens 
New Pittsburgh Theatre
The Caravan School of Theatre 
Arts will open its Pittsburgh the
atre on the corner of Craig and 
Forbes, October 5. With gasoline 
and tire rationing, there will be a 
need of such auditoriums for the 
use of young people interested in 
dramatics. John DeWitt Beattie 
and Jean Gros, directors, believe 
that their theatre will remedy a 
serious threat to Pittsburgh enter
tainment.
There will be evening classes for 
advanced students and teachers. 
Special courses will be offered to 
children.
May Beegle Concerts 
To Begin Sept. 17
On Thursday evening, Septem
ber 17th, the twentieth anniversary 
season of May Beegle concerts will 
be opened by Jeanette MacDonald 
in an extra concert for the benefit 
of the Army Emergency Relief 
Fund.
The program for the entire year 
includes a list of attractions of more 
than usual importance, On October 
10th, a Metropolitan Opera Cast 
will present Pucinis La Boheme. 
The following Friday night, Octo
ber 16th, Rachmaninoff, worlds 
foremost pianist, will give a recital. 
Other highlights in the years sched
ule include the Monte Carlo Ballet 
as well as concerts by Lawrence 
Tibbett and Helen Trauble.
A. E. R. C. Furlough 
Given By War Dept.
According to information receiv
ed from the War Department, stu
dents in the Army Enlisted Reserve 
Corps who are ordered to active 
duty upon graduation will be given 
two weeks furlough between the 
date of graduation and the date 
upon which they are to report for 
duty.
Students specially qualified for 
necessary advanced study, research 
work, or faculty replacement may 
be recommended by the institution
al authorities to continue their 
studies.
Ideal for college work ... "torpedo point 
starts on the split second . . . original 
pocket-level Military Clip
Term papers . . . exams ... or a letter home 
theres a thrilling new experience in handling the 
Parker 51. Its a wholly new kind of writing 
instrument. Handsome to look at... responsive 
as your forefinger. Writes with truly amazing 
ease. Then supreme magicyou dont need a 
. blotter! For the Parker "51and this pen alone 
is designed to write with a new-type fluid, 
Parker "51 Ink. This amazing ink dries as you 
write! Ends smudging... ink-stained fingers. Yet
COP. 1 #41. THC PARKIS PIH COUAsY
the Parker "51 can also handle any ink to per
fection. See and try the remarkable Parker "51 
with "51 Ink at your favorite pen counter. 
Prices are $12.50 and $15.00. Many beautiful 
Parker Vacumatic pens, too, at $5.00 and $8.75.
^GUARANTEED BY LIFE CONTRACT! Parker's 
Blue Diamond on the pen is our contract uncon
ditionally guaranteeing service for the owner's life* 
without cost other than 35i charge for postage, insur
ance, and handling, if pen is not intentionally 
damaged and is returned complete to The Parker 
Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
Barker 51

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942
. .  Off The Cuff . . .
That adorable freshman Jane 
Branagan is being seen here and 
there with Kappa Sig Bob Herrod. 
Dont tell anyone but we hear that 
brother Bill Beamer would like 
to cut in, too.
The Dragon Tea Dance was a big 
success in spite of the heat. By the 
waywhere were all the freshmen 
hiding? 
Eleanor Sloman, senior secre
tarial, returned from a visit to Bos
ton wearing an engagement ring.
George McLeod, the Canadian 
Beta, is interested in joining the Ca
nadian Navy  Pat Ryan will be 
lonesome if he does.
That surprise dinner Sarah Coryeas mother gave for her on her 
twenty-first birthday was a south
ern masterpiece! Bob gave her a 
smooth little candid camera.
Ted Macosko, following Kappa 
Sig tradition, recently joined the 
ranks of married men. Shes a 
Tri-Delt from Pitt.
Ash Etkes and the rest of the 
Brooklyn contingent are mighty un
happy these days as the Dodgers ' 
continue their steady nose-dive in 
the National League pennant race.
Andy Vadaz was the first to dis
cover Camille Brent, sophomore 
transfer from Maryville.
Seen Lunching in the Beanery 
Chris Smith and blond Lois Frishcorn.
Hear tell that Tistie Weaver and 
A1 Platt are the latest to join the
mmn::w:nmnnwm;n:w  : \  mw*
FOR
Quality Cleaning
MODEL 
SERVICE
3919 Forbes Street 
SChenley 4313
Call and Delivery 
....
fra-rority of D.U.s and Gammas? 
Also that Alpha Ruth Hogg is now 
the proud wearer of Frank Crowes
S.A.E. pin.
Anne Sweeney, Maggie Murph 
freshman, has been spending a lot 
of time at the Delt House.
Pappy Yochum and Bill Beuchler returned to school sporting new 
Bantams. Super-smoothie Beuchler turned in his little Bantam 
sedan for a station wagon of the 
same make. Capacitythree small 
people.
The Beta Pis are giving a dinner 
next Sunday at the Royal York in 
honor of their pretty new sponsor 
Mrs. Job.
Kappa Mary McCarthy has been 
getting around sumpin terrific 
since she returned that certain fra
ternity pin.
Ruth Means and Bud Burns are 
dating it for the Beetle skating.
A. T. O. pledge Paul Warren has 
three dates for Fall Carnialand all 
from the same dorm, too. Bet a lot 
of seniors would like to study his 
technique.
In spite of travel restrictions Pi 
K. A. Ed Sherry is bringing in his 
girl from Cleveland for Carnival.
We hear tell that Mariam Fischer 
has an Ohio State fraternity pin.
Just in case you havent heard 
Lucy Frank has been wearing 
Rusch Lochheads Delt pin for 
many a day.
Office Hours Changed
Dr. Offut, in room 200 Gym
nasium, has changed her office 
hours this year to 12:30 until 2:00 
every afternon except Saturdays 
and Sundays.
Bamboc Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET
Delicious Chinese and American 
Food Is Served 
Special Meals At Moderate Prices 
Luncheon Served From 11-3 P. M. 
35c and up 
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M.
55c and up 
Also Special Rates For Parties
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Mike Saska Killed 
In Aerial Combat
Word was received from the Navy 
Department that Mike Saska, E. 
E., was shot down and crashed into 
the ocean while on aerial duty in 
the South Pacific.
A regular guard on the 1940 foot
ball squad, Mike was called to active 
duty as a pursuit fighting pilot in 
the spring of 1941. Well liked by 
everyone that knew him, he had vis
ited the campus on August 1st of
this year while waiting to be as
signed to a new squadron.
Mike had been in the Navy prior 
to his enrollment at Tech and was 
in the Naval Reserve during his 
school years. He was a member of 
Phi Kappa Fraternity.
Employment Again 
Offered by N. Y. A.
Applications for National Youth 
Administration work for the school 
year 1942-43 have been received 
by the school. Persons interest
ed in N. Y. A. work may fill out 
their application today in the em
ployment office, room 246A, Indus
tries Hall.
Gimbels Department Store will 
be interviewing boys and girls for 
part time work. The interviews 
will be held here at school on Sep
tember 22. Sign up for an appoint
ment with Mr. Murphy in the em
ployment office.
Students who wish to apply for 
other part time work should fill out 
their application and a copy of their 
schedule to be filed with Miss 
Monks.
All students who held regular or 
part time jobs this summer are re
quested to leave a record of their 
jobs and earnings with Miss Monks. 
This information is important for 
student employment. 
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Health Dept. Urges 
Students To Secure 
Cold Immunization
Statistics of past years show the 
number of colds and resulting hos
pital cases which cause so many 
absences from class has been great
ly reduced by cold immunization. 
Those who are subject to colds have 
found the immunization treatment 
to be successful in the great major
ity of cases in preventing colds en
tirely, and at least decreasing the 
severity and duration of a cold in 
all cases.
The method recommended by the 
department of student health is the 
same as last year. It consists of a 
series of pulvules taken for seven 
successive days before breakfast, 
then two pulvules a week through
out the period of greatest pre
valence of colds to maintain im
munity. The pulvules may be ob
tained at the office of the resident 
physician, room 202 gymnasium, at 
fifty cents for twenty, which is suf
ficient for an initial immunization.
Dr. Sipple particularly urges stu
dents living in dormitories and fra
ternity houses, where cold germs 
are carried from one to another 
throughout the unit, to immunize 
themselves against this common 
danger. Colds are contagious, and 
where students live within such 
close contact of each other, it is al
most impossible to eliminate the 
spreading of an infectious germ un
less a resistance against the germ is 
developed.
The earlier this preventative 
measure is started, the more effecr 
tive it is. A supply of pulvules is 
ready, and now, before the cold 
season caused by changeable 
weather and raw winds sets in, is 
the most satisfactory time to begin 
immunization. This treatment is 
also beneficial to all respiratory in
fections including rhinitis, catarrh, 
bronchitis, and pharyngitis.
Make Dates for Pictures
Senior pictures for the Thistle 
will be taken in Room 17, Industries 
Building, beginning Monday, Sep
tember 29. The photographer will 
be there for three weeks only, and 
since appoitnments will not be as
signed this year, every senior is 
urged to make his own appointment 
as early as possible. Hours for ap
pointments will be announced later.
Keep Up A Good 
Civilian Front
OUTSTANDING FEATURES:
(1) Thorough Cleaning in Clear Sol
vents.
(2) Odorless Dry Cleaning.
(3) Individual Attention to Each 
Garment.
(4) Buttons Replaced Free of 
Charge.
(5) Loose Seams and Hems Repair
ed at no extra cost.
(6) Your Garments are measured 
or original size.
Dresses and Suits
69c
OUR SPECIALTY IS 
CLEANING RAINCOATS
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street MUseum 1288 
WE CALL AND DELIVER

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Frey, Shewitz, 
Spitaleri, Dolan, and Whiteside, and Miss 
Gehrett.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Assemblies
Mr. Reisacher asked the opinion of 
Council members as to what the students 
wanted in their assemblies. Members 
suggested that we have illustrated lec
tures and quiz programs similar to the 
one we had last year.
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the acceptance of 
a petition from the Arts Senate for an 
election for the office of Vice-President of 
the Arts Senate on Tuesday, September 29.
Motion carried.
Social Committee
Mr. Van Arsdell said that all tea dances 
scheduled for Thursday will have to be 
scheduled on Tuesday hereafter, if that 
is possible.
The Womens Guild asked to have the 
date of their dance changed from March 
13, 1943, to November 21, 1942. The so
cial calendar must be consulted before 
Council can give this permission.
It was moved that the petition of the 
Cwen Society for a tea dance on Tuesday, 
October 6, in Thistle Hall be approved.
Motion carried.
Publications Committee
Mr. Munyer moved that the petition 
from the Art-Icle be tabled until next 
week.
Motion carried.
Budget Committee
Mr. Schatz moved for the approval of 
the Student Council budget.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Miss Zonge reported that she had talked 
to Mrs. Yon and that they had decided 
that it was best to drop the matter of 
Student Councils sponsoring a dancing 
class to be given by Mr. Turner.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. David Ross, president of Interfra
ternity Council, recommended to Student 
Council that Council assume the authority 
over Interfraternity Council and other 
groups to settle any question which may 
arise between Interfraternity Council and 
the other groups.
Mr. Van Arsdell said that the constitu
tions of Interfraternity Council, Dormi
tory Council, and Intersorority Council 
will be revised.
Mr. Reisacher suggested that Council 
establish a stock room for a permanent 
store of decoration supplies. Each organ
ization should contribute its decoration 
appropriation to a common fund. He 
suggested that some member of Council 
assemble the facts on the decorations ex
penditures. Mr. Fitzgerald was appointed 
to take up this matter, in co-operation 
with Mr. Reisacher.
Mr. Van Arsdell asked Student Coun
cil members to help decorate for Fall 
Carnival, beginning on Tuesday, Septem
ber 15, 1942.
Mr. Schatz moved for the approval of the Fall Carnival budget.
Motion carried.
Mr. McDonald said that the football 
team asked for complimentary tickets to 
Fall Carnival. Council decided that it 
would be setting a precedent, even 
though the football team is deserving.
Adjournment.
L Respectfully submitted,
m LUCILLE ORR, Secretary.
MACHINIST
TOOL AND 
DIE MAKING
INSTRUMENT 
MAKING
Courses 3 to 12 Weeks
Beginners  Advanced  Bnich-Up 
Expert Individual Instruction ] 
Write or Call 9A.M.-9:30 P.M. 
We employ no solicitors 1
METROPOLITAN
Former Graduate 
Becomes Instructor
Carnegie Techs Fine Art staff 
has been augmented by the ap
pointment of C. Kermit Ewing, B. 
A., M. A., graduate of C. I. T. in 1932 
in Art Education. He completed 
college by means of football schol
arships, playing varsity in 1932. He 
returned in 1933 and secured his 
Masters degree.
After graduation he taught at 
Pelham Manor High School, North
ampton, New York. After a stay as 
art instructor at Belleville, Pa., he 
taught at Indiana State Teachers 
College. His career as football 
coach spanned nine years.
As an artist, he exhibited at 
Springfield, Massachusetts, Tri-- 
State at Parkersburg, where he 
took first prize last year, and at But
ler Museum in Youngstown, Ohio. 
He has,also exhibited at Allied Art
ists, Philadelphia, and the National 
Academy of Design, New York.
Faculty Members Head
Program At Conference
Scout trainers from all local divi
sions will meet in Room 104 Indus
tries on September 19th beginning 
at 3:30 P. M. This conference is be
ing held by the Allegheny Council 
of Boy Scouts of America and will 
include a general session, group 
discussions, and dinner at the Stu
dent Union.
The program is headed by Mr. 
Kent Shaffer, pattern making in
structor; Professor J. B. Ellis, of 
Fine Arts; and Gunner Berg, Na
tional Director of Voluntary Train
ing. Its purpose is to bring to light 
new developments of the past year 
and for the exchange of ideas of 
the troop leaders. The evening ses
sion at 8:00 P. M. is open to all.
Sports Booklet on Sale
The Recreational Institute of a 
nationwide organization interested 
in getting you out for sports and 
recreation is offering their Sport 
Sampler Booklet to the students. 
It will be on sale at the Commons 
on September 15, 16, and 17. The 
booklet contains 47 admissions 
worth $27.83, and it is good for the 
entire 1942 and part of the 1943 sea
son.
ON YOUR LIST 
TO REMEMBER
BOWLING
-atTECHNICAL SCHOOL
260 W. 41st Street, N. Y. C.
LOngacre 3-2180
Ucontod tor Stot of Now Verity
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Craig Near Forbes
W. A. A. News
By Mary Polis
With the first W. A. A. meeting 
on Monday, the girls sports season 
was officially opened. A poster adertising each sport as well as a gen
eral sports schedule will be placed 
on Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts bulletin boards within the next 
week. Watch for these posters and 
sign up for the sport which you 
wish to participate in.
The primary aim of the various 
clubs is to foster interest in the 
sports they sponsor and to improve 
skills which provide recreation in 
college and during the years which 
follow graduation. A girl may join 
any of these clubs: Archery, Bad
minton, Basketball, Modern Dance, 
Fencing, Hockey, Swimming, Vol
ley Ball, Bowling, and Tennis. 
Membership is by no means limited 
to experts in the sports, and many 
of the clubs carry active programs 
of instruction.
Glassford Leaves For 
Coaching Job at Yale
Those who are veterans of the 
football squad have noticed the 
absence of their former Line Coach 
Biff Glassford. Glassford left the 
campus early last summer to take 
a job as Line Coach at Yale under 
Howdy ODell who is Head Coach at 
that school.
Both Glassford and ODell are 
former Pitt men and both played 
football there. Everyone wished 
him the best of luck in his new po
sition.
Swimming Notice
All those interested in the Swim
ming Team should make it a point 
to see Coach Risedorf either this 
Wednesday or Friday at 4:30 at the 
swimming pool.
MuAic tf-OH?
Phonograph Recitals 
To Be Held Weekly
Do you like music? Youll be es
pecially interested in the newly ac
quired phonograph records to be 
found in the Music Department. Its 
one of the finest collections in this 
fair city of Pittsburgh and includes 
many contemporary selections, plus 
recording by famous European or
chestras that are no longer in ex
istance.
Everyone who enjoys good music 
is invited to attend the phonograph 
recitals held twice weekly in the 
Music Department under the direc
tion of Dr. Dorian and Mr. Pearson.
The time is from 12:30 to 1:30; in 
Room 157, Arts; every Tuesday with 
Mr. Pearson supervising and every 
Thursday with Dr. Dorian taking 
charge. This week the programs 
will be made up of our selections 
from the new symphonic record
ings.
No Tartan Next Week
There will be no issue of the Tar
tan next week. The Tartan is sched
uled to appear fourteen times per se
mester and the absence of any 
school vacations makes it necessary 
to stagger the publication dates. 
This will permit the Tartan to ap
pear at the close of the present se
mester instead of discontinuing 
publication for the month of Decem
ber.
Night School Swimming
There will be mixed swimming 
classes for night school students 
each Wednesday evening from 7 to 
10:30. The first four weeks will be 
a tryout period, and if the turnout 
is great enough, it will be continued 
for the remainder of the school 
year.
Qood NewA. .
DANCING 
FOOTBALL 
GOLF - -
- - - MOVIES 
 - - SKATING 
RIDING, ETC.
$27.00 In Admissions For $1.25
By special arrangement with the Recreational Institute, we have avail
able books and passes, valued at $27.00, on sale at this low price.
This is done for advertising to acquaint you with the sports these concerns 
have available.
The Passes are as follows:
No. of 
Admissions
PITTSBURGH PLAYHOUSE .................................................................................. 1
DANCING, Hotel Schenley ..................................................................................... 2
FOOTBALL, Duquesne............................................................................................... 1
FOOTBALL, Carnegie Tech ................................................................................... 1
DANCING, Grotto ....................................................................................................... 4
ROLLER SKATING..................................................................................................... 3
BOWLING ....................................................................................................................... 6
BOWLING ....................................................................................................................... 6
MOVIES ........................................................................................................................... 2
BASKETBALL, Duquesne ........................................................................................ 1
BASKETBALL .............................................................................................................. 2
DANCING, Aragon .................................................................................................. 2
ICE SKATING .............................................................................................................. 2
GOLF. North Hills ..................................................................................................... 2
GOLF, Valley Heights.................................*............................................................ 2
GOLF, Coraopolis Heights ................................................................................. 2
HORSEBACK RIDING ............................................................................................... 3
HORSEBACK RIDING ............................................................................................... 3
47
All Passes good for 1942 and part of 1943 season
The edition is limited and will be on sale here for ONLY THREE DAYS 
so if you are interested in securing one of these valuable books, be sure to 
GET YOURS AT ONCE.
On sale at lunch hour and from 6 to 7 for evening classes.
Books available at Commons Cafeteria on TuesWed. 
and ThursSept. 15, 16 and 17, Only
Value
$1.25 2.20 1.10 
1.10 
1.60
1.50 
1.20 
1.20
.80
.75
.50
.88
.80
1.50 1.00 1.00
4.50 
3.75
$27.83

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TRTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1942
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
-------AT------
395 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Plaid Notice
There will be a meeting for all 
persons interested in working on 
the Carnegie Plaid at 7:00 Friday, 
September 25 on the third floor of 
the Carnegie Union.
Vicious tackling and hard running was in evidence as Joe Pashs 
Greens were victorious in Saturdays practice tilt.
Grid Squad Rapidly Improving; 
Staged Practice Game Last Saturday
With but two weeks remaining, 
Coach Eddie Baker has been whip
ping the grid squad into shape for 
the initial encounter of the season 
on September 26. At the present 
time the squad seems to be improv
ing rapidly; however, much prac
tice is still needed before they will 
be ready for their first game.
The backfield men who seem to 
have topped the field for the present 
are Bill Philipchuk at fullback, 
Bob Weise at quarteback, Joe Pash 
at right half, and Virge Cantini or 
Johnny McLaughlin at left half. 
Both of the last named men are 
somewhat handicapped by previous 
injuries; McLaughlin has had a bad 
right shoulder while Cantini has a 
weak knee. Besides the first string 
men already mentioned, there are 
four promising freshman who will 
undoubtedly see a great deal of ac
tion; they are Hall, Hurst, Brown, 
and Gaydos.
Last Saturday Coach Baker held 
a practice game in the Carnegie 
Bowl; the entire squad being divid
ed into two teamsthe Greens and 
the Reds. Actual game conditions 
prevailed with regular officials, a 
lined field, full quarters, running of 
chains, and game rules. Captained 
by Joe Pash, the Greens emerged 
the victors on the long end of a 25-0 
count. As a whole the game provid
ed Coach Baker with a good look 
at the team under fire of competi
tion, especially the freshman hope
fuls. Joe Pash and Bill Purcell 
starred for the Greens, while Mc
Laughlin, Fritz, and Carnahan look
ed good for the Reds. Although 
weaknesses were shown in various 
departments, the first string run
ning attack functioned smoothly 
and the tackling of both teams was 
vicious.
To Start Friday
This Friday the touch-football 
season gets under way with the 
teams of the Independent League 
1 playing the opening games. The 
Intramural teams have been divid
ed into three leagues; two leagues 
of six teams composed of frater
nity men, and one league composed 
of eight independent teams. Each 
team plays the other teams in his 
league, and the league winners play 
off for the school championship.
Since the first game is less than 
a week away, it is important that 
each played have his physical ex
amination and practice his prescrib
ed two weeks. The games will be 
played every afternoon except 
Thursday and Saturdays. Playing 
should begin at four-thirty, but a 
period of fifteen minutes is alloted 
the teams to make their appearance 
on the field. If however, a team 
fails to appear, the game is auto
matically forfeited. To enforce the 
rules and to referee the games, 
Dave Brinn has selected eight com
petent referees.
At a recent meeting of the sched
ule committee the schedules were 
arranged and the teams in each 
league selected.
LEAGUE A 
Sigma Nu Tau Delta Phi
Phi Kappa Kappa Sigma
Beta Sigma Rho Alpha Tau Omega
LEAGUE B 
Theta Xi Pi Kappa Alpha
Delta Tau Delta Delta Upsilon
Beta Theta Pi Sigma Alpha Epsilon
STATESMAN f'Jrf'-tt
Soccer Prospects 
Good; 45 Turn Out
The soccer season is quickly ap
proaching, and holds fair prospects 
for the Tech team. Last Tuesday 
about forty-five applicants signed 
up in the Athletic Office, but it is 
still not too late to try out for the 
team. Equipment was handed out 
on Wednesday, and practice started 
yesterday. Practices are held on 
the soccer field along Forbes near 
Beeler.
There are only six veterans out 
for the team this year, so those who 
are coming up from last years 
freshman squad will prove invalua
ble. Of the forty-five or so appli
cants only about fifteen have had 
previous experience here at Tech. 
However, the team as a whole 
shows great promise.
The first game was scheduled 
with Frostburg Teachers, but that 
school has cancelled all athletics for 
the duration. However, the Di
rector of Athletics is trying to 
schedule a return game with Oberlin.
LEAGUE C 
McGill Hall Junior Mechanicals
Boss Hall Zoot Suits
Scobell Hall Citcom
Henderson Hall Welch Hall
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18
McGill................... ............  Zoot Suits
Boss..........................................Mechanicals
Scobell ..............................................Citcom
Welch..............................................Henderson
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21
McGill.......................................Mechanicals
Boss..............................................Zoot Suits
Scobell............................................Henderson
Welch ....................................................Citcom
Action in Practice.Touch Football
TRIUMPH" TUCKAWAY 
Feothertouch Ensemble, $16.50, for men or 
womencarries safely in arty pasWon.
SKRIP-WEU 
Uses the Last Drop
What a lost feeling when you and your loved one* ore 
far apart, and no letters arrive to bridge the gap and 
cheer you up. Write those letters! Letters are YOU IN 
PERSON, at long distance!
Sheaffer's "TRIUMPH b the newest jCifaiim** pen. We 
began developing it four yeors before the entry of the 
United States into war. At that time "TRIUMPH was under
going final rigorous tests by land and sea. It has been sold 
throughout 1942. Fortunately, practically all of the materials 
in "TRIUMPH" are of least critical nature . . . Men and 
women in all walks of life will value this essential gift, 
now ond always.e e e
Note: Fuel all pens carefully. Sheaffer's SKRIP is kind to 
the rubber and other critical parts of pen*makes all pens 
write better and last longer.
Ail Jtifriimm pens are unconditionally guaranteed for ttie life of the first 
user except against loss and willful damagewhen serviced, If complete 
pen is returned, subject only to insurance, postage, handling charge35c
SHEAFFER5W. A. SHEAFFER PEN CO.. FORT MADISON. IOWA
stayCMEMOPUM
SKRIP, successor to ink. 
Double size, 25c 
Regular sixe, 15.
DOUBLE
LENGTHFINEUNE
ANY 
MAIL 
FOR ME?
' SHEARER'S 
> MUCLAGE wi* 
Jhsedy spreader
SHEAFFER pens, 
ALL COLORS, 
*2^5 TO S20.
