CAMPUS WEEK 
MAY
24, 25, 26
JUNIOR BANQUET 
SATURDAY, S:30 
HOTEL CHATHAM
VOL. XVII. NO. 28CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1923
ANNUAL JUNIOR 
BANQUET APRIL 
21, AT CHATHAM
Short and Snappy Speaches, 
Real Eats, and Superlative 
Entertainments to Be Fea
tures of Evening
SCIENCE, INDUSTRIES AND 
ARTS ASSEMBLY PROGRAMS
FOR WEEK OF APRIL 18
FEE REDUCED TO $2.50, 
------------------
The Annual Junior Banquet of the ! 
year will be held at 8:30, Saturday, 
April 21, in the Hotel Chatham Roof 
Garden.
Every Junior who expects to attend 
the banquet, and this means every 
loyal Junior who can possibly get 
the required two dollars and a half 
together, should buy his ticket now. 
This is asked so that the committee 
will know just about how many men 
to prepare for, and to get enough 
cash on hand to defray . expenses 
which have to be met at once. In 
doing this the Juniors can help make 
the banquet better, and will make 
it possible for the committee to put 
forth their best efforts in making 
the affair a big success. This favor 
would he appreciated greatly.
The committee would like to call 
tlie attention of the Juniors to the 
fact that last year the cost of 
the banquet was three dollars and a 
half, while this year it is hut two 
and a half and that last years bah-j 
quet or any other banquet will have 
no comparison, especially in the form 
of entertainment. It simply can not 
he missed. By the way things look, 
there is going to be a record crowd. 
Nothing is being left undone in or
der to make the banquet absolutely 
the biggest yet.
It is planned not to have the ban
quet one of those long drawn out af
fairs where each speaker tries *to out 
do the other in the length' of his 
speech. There will be comparatively 
few speeches, and the few that there 
are will be short and snappy;" in 
fact, this will he the tone of the 
whole affair. Here is a list of the 
men who have been asked to attend 
the banquet: Dr. Baker, Director
Day, Director Bcr^ft.go,  MV. Kirlcpai; 
rick, Professor Trinks, Captain 
Dosey, Mr Forrell, Dad White and 
Mr. Richardson.
One other guest at the banquet 
(Continued on Page Two.)
College of industries.
Time, 11:30....................Room 104, Ind.
Nomination of officers for coming 
year.
Discussion of new constitution of 
Student Council.
Plebe Orchestra.
Humorous number by Van AJta 
and Rubenstein.
College of Fine Arts.
Time, 11:30......................Little Theater.
Announcements.
Banjo solo by Proser Wileau.
A reading.
DIR. B0SSANGE 
RESIGNS TO GO 
TO PRINCETON
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA TO 
GIVE THIRD PUBLIC CONCERT 
SUNDAY NITE IN MUSIC HALL
College of Engineering,
Time, 11:30......................Room 209,'Sci.
Program not announced.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL 
SELECTS NEW STAFF
W.J. Lyman, P.C. Cromwell' 
and W. P. Bitler Head Staff 
For 1923-1924
R.O.T.C.Summer Camps 
Offer Many Advantages
Two Camps to Be Held For 
One Month at Camp Meade
This article is the third to appear 
in the Tartan for the purpose of 
arousing interest in the R. O. T. C.
Camps. Two summer camps are 
held. Basic and Advanced. Basic 
Camp attendance, while greatly to be 
desired, is optional with the students. 
It may be attended at end of Fresh
man or Sophomore years.
Advanced camp attendance, how
ever, is a prerequisite to graduation 
at the institution and is compulsory. 
It will normally be attended by stu
dents who have completed at least 
the'first semester of the first year of 
the advanced course. In the case of 
students of engineer units who are 
required, during the summer follow
ing their junior year, to pursue sum
mer training, or who elect to pursue 
technical training during that sum
mer or to engage in employment in 
furtherance of their technical train
ing, under the general supervision of 
the authorities of the institution, the 
department or corps area commander 
may authorize them to attend the ad
vanced camp upon the completion of 
their basic course and enrollment in 
the advanced course.
Transportation to and from camp, 
subsistence, uniform, equipment, and 
medical attendance will be furnished 
members of the Reserve Officers 
Training Corps attending camps. Stu
dents attending the basic camp are 
not paid. Those attending the ad
vanced R O. T. C. camp, however, will 
he paid during the camp at the rate 
prescribed for soldiers of the army, 
now seventy cents ($0.70) a day.
Camp this year will be held at Camp 
Meade, Maryland, from June 26 to 
July 25. Camp Meade is about half 
way between Washington and Balti
more, with good interurban rail con
nection to both places.
Newman Club Ball to Be 
Held in K. of C. Ball-room
The annual Newman Club ball will 
be held Monday evening, April 23, in 
the Knights of Columbus ballroom.
The committee in charge has de
cided to hold the ball in the form of 
a cabaret dinner dance. The grand 
march will commence at 9:30 oclock. 
Dinner will be served at midnight and 
dancing will continue until two 
oclock. Music will be furnished by 
Maggio.
The members of the committee in 
charge from Carnegie Tech are: An
ne Brennan, Thomas J. Dempsey, and 
T. F.-Kelly.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
The retiring staff of the Carnegie 
Technical Journal erected the officers 
who will publish the Journal next 
year and who will also he responsible 
for the last issue this year which 
will appear on the campus around 
the middle of next month.
The elections were as follows:
W. J. Lyman....................Editor-in-Chief
W. P. Bitler..................Managing Editor
P. C. Cromwell... .Business Manuager
H. Hindered... .Advertising Manager
J. C. Major.........Circulation Manager
F. M. Harris..................Associate Editor
A. Stiegler.......................Associate Editor
W. Winning.....................Associate Editor
F. A. Ashbaugh............Associate Editor
T. F. Laughry...............Associate Editor
J. F. Lamb......................Associate Editor
J. A. Funkhauser..________________
........Assistant Managing Editor
L. R. Schriver...........................................
............Assistant Business Manager
W. IC. JefLre............Technical Editor
W. F. Kaufman------Publicity Manager
The selection of these men was 
based on the amount and quality of 
work performed by tho individuals in 
the past and also on their apparent 
ability. It is hoi'ftd that the new 
staff will not only equal the feats of 
their predecessors, but will butter
them and take another step towards 
raising the Carnegie Toclinical Journay to the head of its field.
The men on the retiring staff who 
so capably led the destinies of the 
Technical Journal through the past 
year, helped in tho work of making 
the-Technical Journal a real technical 
magazine. The retiring staff is head
ed by A. C. Corrao, manager; II. K. 
Burr, editor; W. II. Horsh, technical 
editor; F. H. Allison, business man
ager; G. A. Martin, advertising man(Continued on Page Three)
Chinese Decorations to 
Feature Campus Week
The scheme of decoration for 
Campus Week of this year will be en
tirely Chinese. This was the decision 
arrived at by the General Campus 
Committee at the meeting last Wed
nesday night.
Tentative plans have been drawn 
up, and the reports of the different 
committees show that the work is pro
gressing favorably. The final approv
ed schedule will be available for pub
lication within a week or CAM
It is the aim of the committee  to 
make Campus Week as cheap as pos
sible for the undergraduate. With 
this end in view the cost of the tags 
will be lower, than last year, and at 
the same time the tags will be more 
valuable; admitting the owner to most 
of the events.
The decorations will be more elab
orate this year, and the lighting ef
fects especially will be very good. An 
innovation in this line which will add 
considerably to the general effect is 
promised by E. A. Brand, chairman 
of the committee.
The title of the Queen has been 
changed from Queen of the Mardi 
Gras to Queen of Campus Week, and 
the election will be made with this 
idea in mind.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
WOMEN VOTERS LEAGUE TO
DISCUSS POLITICS TODAY
The regular meeting of the Carne
gie Tech branch of the League of 
Women Voters is to be held today 
at 4:30 p. m., in the Exhibition Hall 
of the College of Fine Arts.
Miss Sarah Softel, an Assistant 
City Solicitor, is to speak on Wom
en in Politics.
The girls will serve tea and sev
eral of them will speak on current 
event topicsthe Ruhr situation is 
to be one of them. Both faculty and 
students are cordially invited to at
tend.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
REV. ODELL CHAPEL SPEAKER
Rev. O. D. Odell, D. D., of the Pres
byterian Church in Sewickley, will 
be the speaker at chapel tomorrow. 
The services have been well attended 
of late and now that there are but 
two more, everyone should attend.
Director of Fine Arts For 
Eight Years Will Be the 
Head of Architec tural 
School in New Position
LEAVES JULY FIRST
The Carnegie Symphony Orchestra, 
of 90 pieces, will give its third and 
last free public concert next Sunday 
night, April 22nd, in Carnegie Music 
Hall.
Free tickets for the concert noxt 
Sunday evening are available in the 
Music Department, according to an
nouncement. Seats will be reserved 
for ticket holders until S:15.
Professor J. Vick O'Brien, Head of 
the Music Department, will again 
serve as director of tho orchestra. Its 
membership will consist of selected 
students, graduates, former students, 
and members from tho regular fac
ulty.
SENTIMENTAL 
AMERICA M. M. 
ASSEMBLY TOPIC
Miss Agnes Repplier, Famous 
Philadelphia Authoress, to 
Speak at Carnegie Lecture 
Hall This Morning
E. Raymond. Bossange, Director of i 
the College of Fine Arts, has resigned I 
to accept a call to Princeton Univer
sity as Professor of Architecture and I 
Director of the School of Architec
ture recently organized there. He 
will remain at Carnegie until the close 
of the college year, planning to leave 
Pittsburgh, July 1st.
Mr. Bossange is a graduate of the 
School of Architecture of Columbia 
University. After graduation lie stud
ied extensively abroad and studied in 
France and Italy. He studied archi
tecture and sculpture under Grand 
Prix men at the Villa Medici, in 
Rome, and also studied in the Masquercy stelier, one of the first ateliers 
formed under the auspices of the 
Beaux Arts Society, winning one of 
the first medals offered by that so
ciety. He also won the medal of the 
Architectural League of New York. 
Later ho worked in the offices of 
Ernest Flagg and Carrere and Hast
ings and then became associated with 
Thomas Newton in tlie firm of Bos
sange and Newton.
In 1913-1915 he was Professor of 
Architecture at Cornell University, 
and in September of 1915, came to 
Carnegie Tech as Secretary of the 
School of Applied Design, now known 
as the College of Fine Arts.
Under ' the direction of Mr. 'Bos
sange, theCollege of Fine Arts has 
been developed from tlio experimental 
stages to a point where it is now be
ing imitated, in many respects by 
other institutions of similar function. 
From an organization of four depart
ments, the college lias grown in scope 
to now include six thoroughly organ
ized departments in which four-year 
degree courses have been worked out, 
and in which eighteen options are now 
offered. This year it will graduate 
about fifty-five from its various de
partments. The faculty of 55 pro
fessional artists, all experts In their 
(Continued On Page Two.)
HAMILTON WRITES 
CAMPUS WEEK PLAY
INVITE CARNEGIE MEN
Obie Newman and Peg Har
mon to Play Leads in Show 
Ending Week
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege is to have an assembly today at 
11:45 in the Carnegie Lecture Hall
 with Miss Agnes Rpplier of Phila
delphia, as the speaker of the day, 
Miss Repplier will talk on Senti
mental America. However, tho talk 
will not be for the girls alone, men 
are invited and in fact the balcony 
will be reserved for them. In addi
tion about fifteen hundred personal
STUDENT OFFICERS TO 
BE ELECTED WEDNESDAY
All divisional elections of assembly 
officers and class elections for noxt 
year will be held next Wednesday, 
April 25. Following the custom 
started last,year, all elections in the 
four schools will be held on the same 
day, printed ballots being used when
ever possible.
Nominations; under Student Council 
ruling must be made one week be
fore the election which moans that 
nominations must bo completed foeforo tonight for the various offices. 
A complete list of the nominations 
will be printed in nevt weeks Tar
tan. Further nominations may be 
made at any time before the election 
by notifying the chairman of the 
class or divisional meeting of the 
nomination desired.
With Campus Week as the chief 
ambition of the students, it is only 
I fitting that there be some mention 
made as to certain events which will 
! take place at that time. It is not yet 
j time, however, to openly discuss tho 
details of the matter, for It would 
take all the kick out of the real pres
entation later on, but the committee 
has granted permission to make 
hints" and to insinuate that certain 
things will take place.
For instance, tho committee has let 
It slip out that Harry Hamilton, who 
has just recovered from tho effects 
of running ?You're Next through 
seventeen spectacular performances, 
has prepared the play with which 
Campus Week will be formally closed. 
The committee also admits that O. B. 
Newman and Miss Peg Harmon nro 
going to play the leads in this show. 
In order to prevent any conflict, two 
performances are to be given, ono Sat
urday afternoon, May 26, and tho socond performance the ovonlng of the 
same day. It is liopod that tho after
noon performance be attondod by tho 
general public of Pittsburgh, and that 
the evening performance bo aStu
dent Night Show Tho nature of tho 
show is "dark, but It will como to 
light in tlie Campus Week issue of 
tho Carnoglo Tartan.
Pnftably tho hardest thing to got 
any real information about is tho 
Vaudeville Show with which Campus 
Week is thrown open. O. B. Nowman 
believes in tho policy of tho closod 
shop as far as reporters are con
cern 9d, and ho says tho show Is to bo 
ono1 of.superb surprises. Tho truth 
will out nevertheless, and It Is ru
mored that Dummy S'/.old is prepar
ing a screaming sldt. This, liowovor, 
is just ono of the big things which 
leaked out, but moro will be said In 
tho forthcoming issuo.
Tlieso hints nro merely glvon to 
onhanco the anticipation of tho groat 
event on the part of tho studonts, and 
to mako it doubly Interesting so that 
the students will strivo to stay In 
school until Campus Wook.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Alusical Clubs Season
Ends at Home Concert
The Carnegie Musical Clubs closed 
their 1922-23 season before a crowd 
of over twelve hundred at the Home 
Concert in the Carnegie Music Hall 
^ist Friday night.
Following the concert a dance was 
held in the Union with the Collegiate 
Imps providing the music. About two 
hundred couples enjoyed this part 
of the program until the lights 
blinked at two a. m.
Great credit for the success of tho 
concert is due the manager, L. R. 
Turcotte and the other officers who 
have worked hard for the past few 
weeks getting everything in readi
ness. However, to Mr. Rlehl of the 
Glee Club, and Signor Scalzo of the 
Mandolin, should go the greatest 
credit for developing the hest clubs 
that Carnegie had had in years.
PROPOSAL WOULD MAKE BOSS 
AND McGILL WOMENS DORMS.
While nothing definite has been 
decided as yet, many changes are 
contemplated for the womens dorms, 
next year that will materially in
crease the number of rooms available 
and put into use some of the surplus 
rooms in the present mens dorms. 
Each year there has been a serious 
shortage of rooms for women, and if 
one f the suggestions that has been 
offered is carried out, the present 
Boss and McGill Halls of the men's 
dorms will be converted into dorme 
for women. Several other changes 
have been suggested and action will 
probably be taken within the next 
month on the proposals.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS7
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
CARNEGIE AND PITT IN 
JOINT EPISCOPAL CLUB
Sunday evening, April 15, a . com
mittee. of University of Pittsburgh 
and Carnegie Tech Episcopal Stu
dents met and formed the White
head Episcopal Students Club. This 
club will affiliate, with the national 
organization of student unions of the 
Episcopal CEurch, which recently 
had their annual convention in Phil
adelphia, at the University of Penn
sylvania. At this convention Dorothy 
Schell and W. K. Jeffrey represented 
Carnegie Tech, and Elizabeth Seville 
attended from Pitt.
This club will have as its purpose 
to promote religious life among its 
members on the college campus, aid 
in the solution, of campus questions, 
and will devote part time to religi
ous education.
The first meeting will be held at 
7:30 p. m., Wednesday, April 25, at 
the Church of the Ascension parish, 
where a short business meeting will 
be held followed by entertainment.
At the executive committee meet
ing held last Sunday evening, a con
stitution was formed, and plans 
made for tho meeting; of April 25, 
when ail Episcopal students in tlie 
two schools are expected to be pres
ent.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
CAMPUS WEEK 
IS
COMING!
MAY
MISS AGNES REPPLIER
Invitations liavo boon sont to promi
nent women of Pittsburgh -and a good 
sized audience is eocpoetod.
Miss Roppllcr is very woll known 
in tho oast and in tho Pittsburgh 
district as ono of tlio most famous 
of tho women writers and c.fisayista 
in tho country. She lias taken a 
live interest, both socially and po* 
litlcay, in curroiit affairs and* Is 
(Continuod on Pago Two.)
DELTA PHI DELTA RANKS 
FIRST IN SCHOLARSHIP
Tho scholarship rank of tho I'm* 
tornlties foi the first somostor of tho 
current year Is shown In tho LabLe 
below, ranked in the order ol! tholr 
standing; Tho fraternity which socured tho largest average number of 
points of quality lor I lio current year 
will secure possession of the scholar
ship cup which is now hold by Delta 
jUpsllon.
Delta Phi Delta,
Beta Theta pi,
Della Epsilon Omega,
Iota Sigma Delta,
Delta Mu,
Dolta Upsilon,
Woodlawn Club,
XI Sigma Upsilon,
Kappa' Sigma,
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Elections 
To Be Completed Saturday
No further nominations for the of
ficers of the Y. M. C. A. Student Gen
eral Cabinet have been made since 
the publication of the list as made 
out by> a nominating committee from 
the retiring cabinet and appointed 
by Piesldent Bowers.
The names submitted are as fol
lows: For President, II. E. Dykeman, T. N. Griggs and H. IT. Wilson; 
for vice president, George Allison 
and E. C. Hoennigor; for secretary, 
E. C. Frazier and R. D. Gill.
Ballots will be mailed Tuesday 
night to all active members of the 
organization. These ballots will bo 
in the form of double post cards, 
and the only labor connected with 
the voting is to mark X after tho 
man of your choice and to mall the 
ballot to the Y office in time to 
reach there by Saturday, April 21, at 
noon.
Only those men who have paid 
their subscription in full are regard
ed as eligible to vote. Those who 
have not fulillled their pledge may 
bo entitled to vote by calling at the 
Y office and completing their pay
ment before Saturday
NEW INSIGNIA DE8IGNS
TO BE CONSIDERED FURTHER
Tnslgnla awards to bo made this 
spring will be of the old design. Plans 
for now distinctive insignia were 
submitted and discussed at the last 
meeting of tho Student Activities 
Board. Tho board felt that this 
change in Carnegie affairs should re
ceive more consideration before be>- 
-ing made.
Tho plans which have been pre
sented are to be sorted and a defin
ite idea of what is wanted should 
lie decided upon before the schoo 
term ends so that next year can see 
a ne insignia awarded that will be 
more appropriate of the school and 
the activity for which it is issued.
PICTURES OF LAST YEARS 
CAMPUS WEEK ARE NEEDED.
THE MORE THE MERRIER1
Kodak snapshots, photographs, or 
pioturos of all types aro wan tod by 
tho Publicity Committee for Campus 
Wook.
The commlttoo knows that plenty 
aro available bocauso quito a largo 
number of kodaks woro obsorved 
floating around the campus during 
tho exciting ovonts of tho colobratlou last year.
It would bo appreciated, in tho 
name of good publicity if all tlioso 
studonts, former studonts, and friends 
of tho dear collego, would mark tholr 
name on tho back of any they might 
have, and sond to II. F. Simpson, Pub
licity Manager, via. Carnoglo Toch 
Post Olllco, Central Building. All re
ceived .will bo roturned with duo 
thanks.
EXECUTIVE BOARD 
PASSES NEW RULE
Committee to Issue Permits 
For the Selling of Mer
chandise on Campus
In response to a request from, tho 
Carnegie Tartan, tlio following state
ment is made relative to tho rocont 
ruling by tho Executive Board of tho 
Institute on tho issuing of permits for 
soiling merchandise on tho campus.
On March 13, 1923, tho Executive 
Board of tho Institute passed the fol
lowing action:
Voted that all roquosts for soil
ing merchandise on tho campus or in 
tho buildings, with tho oxcoptlon of 
the stororoom and tho cafeterias, bo 
reforred to a apodal commlttoo con
sisting of tho Doan of Mon, tho Doan 
of Womon and the Buslnoss Man
ager. Tho commlttoo shall have tho 
power to Issuo, In writing, such per
mits as it dooms advisable."
Factors Influential In bringing about 
tho abovo action -woro (1) tho pros
ent prnotico of Indlscrlmlnato and un* 
suporvlBod merchandising (2) tho 
spread of candy soiling with its conBoquout Injurious effoots on tho gonoral health of tho student body (3) 
tho demands from outsiders to roach 
tho studonts with articles of various 
descriptions, and (!) tho Increasing 
annoyanco caused tlio faculty by solic
itors for Insuranco companion and 
stock promotion Hchoinos.
Tho commlttoo will Issue such povmlts as will not, In Its judgmont, con
flict with tho welfare of tlio institu
tion or tho student body, and It Is to 
ho forosoon that oxcoptlons to Its pol
icy of prohibiting tho salo of candy 
will bo granted In spoclal casos such 
as tho Christinas Carnival of tho 
Clulld. The commlttoo will take, In 
gonoral, tlio position that tho build
ings aro for educational and not for 
commercial purposes.
D10A.N BROWN.
MR. ORB IN.
DEAN TARBELL,
A. I. E. E. Hears Talk on 
Porcelain Manufacture"
Through the courtesy of Mr. Burns, 
vIco president of the Electric Engi
neering and Manufacturing Company, 
tho A. I. E. E. secured tho sorvlcoa 
of Mr. John M. Pock, onglnoor for 
tho Porcolaln Insulator Company of 
Lima, N. Y., to 'flpoalc on "The Manu
facture of Porcolaln Insulators, at 
tho meoting last Thursday.
The speaker doscrlbid In detail tho 
various processes through which tho 
sevoral constituents of*porcolaln pass. 
Starting with the raw , clays, the en
tire process up to the finished insu
lator was described. One of the prin
cipal points brought out by Mr. Peck 
was tho great care which had to bo 
taken in the preparation of the porce
lain before It is fired. In fact, it de
veloped that tho manufacture of por
celain calls for a vast amount of skill 
and experience.
Porcelain insulators are of particu
lar interest to the electrical engineer 
since the operation of extensive trans
mission lines more on insulators than 
perhaps anything else. Of the various 
phases of electrical engineering, save 
radio, the field of porcelain is per
haps one of the most active today.
Following Mr Pecks lecture, a dem
onstration of the commercial testing 
of Insulators was made by Prof. Don
nell. By means of the apparatus in 
tho High-Tension Laboratory, he was 
able to show static discharges, corona 
discharges, and fiashoverB on a num
ber of speclmon insulators.
After tho demonstration a buffet 
lunch was served.
QUEEN OF SHEBA 
TO HAVE RIVAL 
CAMPUS WEEK
Queen of Campus Week to 
Reign as Queen of Carnegie. 
To Be Chosen From Sen
iors of M. M. and Arts
PRIMARIES NEXT WEEK
Whos gonna be tho Queon of 
Campus Week?
Last year wo had a Queen of Mardl 
Gras. Fine! But, to bo merely tho 
Queen of Mardl Gras was not enough, 
especially when that celebration is 
only part of a great big celebration. 
So, what would be more fitting than 
to have a Queen of the whole busi
ness? And thats just whats golug 
to bo done.
Only six weeks until Campus Weolc! 
Pretty soon, eh?
So, It doth behoove us to get busy 
and start thinking about whos gonna 
bo this queen. If youre a real Car
negie Teclilte, you have a Slioba 
parked spmewhore in tlio class rooms 
of either Maggie Murplis or Arts. If 
shos a Senior, alls O. Iv.start boost
ing her for tho job. If shos not a 
candidate for tills fears graduating 
class, start looking tho ones who aro 
over, from head to foot, and decide 
which ono of those beauties will bo 
tho host ono to represent Carnoglo 
Toeli as tho Queon of Campus Week. 
For, It has been doeidod that tho so* 
lection will soon take place.
To bo this Queon Is quito an honor, 
and ovory slnglo studont should glvo 
tho matter Ills most careful consider
ation. Her pieturo will bo broadcast
ed throughout the land via. moving 
plcturo, and her namo will ho a by
word of personality, beauty, wlusomoness, attractiveness, and polso as can 
bo soon on tho Carnoglo Toch campus. 
Ilor coronation will bo tlio first big 
and Important ovoul; ol! tho Campus 
Woolc celobratlons.
in order to bo a candidate for this 
important position, tho girl must ho 
(i Senior and a representative girl of 
Carnoglo Tech; must have a. lino and 
pleasing ptuMonallty; anil attractiveness. Look tho Maggie Murph and 
Arlii Senior girls over, and decide 
which ono host fits those spoolllcu(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
All Buildings Will Be 
Open Exhibition Night
Shops, Labs, and Arts Thea
ter Open Friday Evening
On noxt Friday evening the Annual 
Exhibition will bo lipid. All the of
fices, elans rooms, shops and luboru-^ 
torlos of tlio four schools aro to ho 
open to tho public from 7:30 until
1.0:30 p. m.
Asldo from tho work which will 
bo in' progress In the various shops 
and laboratories, tlio Department, of 
Drama will prosont a scene from 
"Tho Taming of the Shrew, at 7:30 
and 8:30, and tlio Department of Mu
sic will glvo a recital at 8 and 9 
oclock In the Arts School Theater. 
Thero will also bo an exhibition of 
scene models by tho Department of 
Drama In the Small Museum; an ex
hibition of work by the Department 
of Applied Art in tho Small Exhibi
tion, Room and in tho Large Exhibi
tion Room, work of the Departments 
of Architecture, Sculpture, Painting 
and Illustrating and Applied Art. 
Other places of interest aro the or
gan practice rooms, Music Library, 
costume rooms, and the various draw
ing, sculpture and design studios.
In the Margaret Morrlfion Carnegie 
College, there will foe exhibitions of 
microscopic work, general biology 
and physical experiments in the De
partment of General Science, a nutri
tious exhibit, typewriting, accuracy 
tests and demonstrations of filing and 
indexing in the Departments of 
Household Economics and secreterial 
studies.
Especially Interesting among the 
shops of the College of Industries 
are the Foundiy, Forge and Heat 
Treatment Laboratories, Fine Print
ing Laboratory, Machine Shop and 
Pattern Shop. Tlie exhibits will con
sist for the most part of machines, 
patterns and casting turned out by 
(Continuod on Page Two.)
Naughty Students Shock the Deans 
By Smuggling Deadly Jelly Beans
By T. 8. Repplier,
(Pensioned by American Reduction 
Company)
About a wook ago, rollalilo sources 
state, a committee of august and wise 
faculty mombors got togothor, and af
ter deliberation and pororatlons, de
cided to ollmlnato from the life of 
Carnoglo Tech one of tlio most dom
inant and vicious of tho reigning evils. 
Yes, sir, one and all agree that tho 
moral atmosphere of tho school 
wasnt at all what it'ought to be: for 
one thing, someone said darn when 
a calorimeter blew up. and singed a 
few hairs; for another, an empty milk 
bottje had been found in the Arts 
school, and again, a man from Indus
tries had boon soon unmistakably 
with a 1 package of Mall Pouch! 
Things woro coming to a protty pass!! 
But most horrifying of allI blush to 
mention Itcandy was being sold 
openly about tho corridors of the In
stitute! Thero, its out. You may 
not bollovo it possible, yet such was. 
actually the case!
Ono Side, Mr. Hersheyl 
You can readily believe that the 
committee was not long in deciding 
that such a state as this could not go 
on. No sir, when collosal minds get 
organized it doesnt take them long 
to get to the bottom of things. What 
did they do? Why, passed a ruling 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1923
X& CwnBgtelMan
Published every week by undergraduatoH of tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of tho Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Pontofllco of Pittsburgh us second-class matter.
.VICTOR II. STROMQUIST ......................................................... Bditor-Jn-Chief
TelephoneHiland 858.
PA GA SONNEMANN AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA Business Munuger
TelephonoSchenley 1)211
EDW. A. BRAND ...................................................................................... Managing Editor
TeleplionoSclienley 01d3
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................ Assoclute Editor
H. 1. SIMPSON......................................................................................... Associato Editor
H. V. DIETER...................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES................................................................................................New Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................................New Editor
TelephoneHiland 8118-,I
PUSW EM KYYS2K4MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM M,56J Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
H. H. WILSON ............................................................................ Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 0350
R. P. HAY .......................................................................................................... Photographer
R. I). KELLER ............................................................................................ Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR...........................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER.............................................................................................. Spoclal Writer
W. N. CUNNINGHAM .................................................................  Advertising Manager
TelophonoSchenley 9211
J. 0. MAJOR ....................................................................................  Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley. 9102 
 EDITORIAL ASSISTANT.
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzIo, L. Hortznian, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, 
L. D. Rlchardu, A. F. Andrews, B. DoMare, E. G. Elgle, A. E. Krogh, I. II. 
Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTItlBUTORS
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rossback. 
iBUSINESS ASSISTANTS
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Doinpsoy, J. B. Laudig, D. NACY5AIUOR J. W. 
Motro, P. W. Reilly, II. Glbaon, W. A. Jacko, P. Edlo, R. L. Sandrock, B. 
Broudy, II. UrBchel.
Tho Edltor-ln-Chlol! 1C responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communlcatlonB of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All nows Items must bo in the student 
postofllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OillceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
WHO IS GOING TO RULE?
1 r'i ' ?:-----------------j
It has come to be a question oil WJio is going to rule?
Shall a student body of twenty-five hundred have its ideas 
grounded and trampled upon by a mere handful of three or four 
graduates?
Is it right that these same three or four graduates should have 
their way when their way is at variance with the opinion of an un
divided student body?
Is it For the Good of Carnegie Tech that these same three or 
four graduates should carry their opinion when it is at variance with 
the generally accepted ideas of the foremost colleges and universities 
in tho country?
And tho answer is, emphatically: NO.
And yet, thats exactly what is taking place at Carnegie Tech on 
one quostion.
When a student body kicks about an existing condition, it is 
time to investigate. Maybe tho students'may be found, liter investi
gation to be wrong, but just the same, tho fact that there is disatisiaction, and its resultant discontent, only goes to show that all is 
not 3ight.
The point at question is that of awards to tho cheerleaders. 
Practically the entiro student body as a unit beliovo tho chocrleaders 
desorvo moro rewards than they have received in the past, and that 
this roward should be given by tho Athlotic Council instead of by the 
Student; Council, as is done a I; tho present time.
Thoro has been a lot of complaint ol! the calibre of cheerleaders. 
But what can bo expected when tho system ol! awards is so far at 
variance with other colleges? Tho head chcerlcador should bo 
awarded a. Varsity Letter.
It is understood that rccontly tlio Student Council petitioned tho 
Athletic 'Council to relieve them ol! tho matter, and take upon them
selves tho matter ol! awarding insignia, which would bo under such 
an arrangomont, nothing olso than a Varsity C to tho Head OhoorldiKler. Tho Athletic Council refused to oven consider the matter, 
and 11; is known that a moro handful! ol* graduates had tlioir way.
It sooms that tho time has como when tho Athletic Council should 
bo made to see the way of the student body and act accordingly. No 
ono can blnmo tho ohoorlondors Jor an apparent laok ol interest. 
Especially Ho when they aro not receiving n squaro deal.
A cheerleader should bo a lender. At other schools ho is. At 
Carnegie Toch lio is meroly an announcer. Tho student, body wants 
moro than that for a ehoorlendor. They wan I; a roal loader. How aro 
they to get their desire V Simplo. hot tlio A thlotic Council capitulate.
 And MO Hi. (|U.,slion is: "WHO IS < i ( H N (i TO IMIhKV_________
Student Calendar
Two Students May Be Nom
inated Yearly For Cruise
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18
Student AssemblyCollege of Mno Arts................11:30, Arts Theater
College of Industries.............12:80, 104 Industries
M. M. C. C..................II :30, M. M. Assembly Hall
College of Science and Eng......11:30, 209 Science
THURSDAY, APRIL 19
Chapel............................................................................12:50, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, APRIL 20 
Exhibition Night.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21
TennisCarnegie vs. West Virginia...................Morgantown, W. Va.
Track MeetInter-Fraternity Meet.................................Carnegie Oval
BanquetMens Junior Banquet..........................Chatham Roof Garden
SUNDAY, APRIL 22
ConcertSymphony Concert by the Department of Music...........
.....................................................................8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
MONDAY, APRIL 23 TO FRIDAY, MAY 4 (inclusive)
DramaThe Taming of the Shrew.........................8:15, Arts Theater
Student Nights are Friday and Saturday,'April 27 
and 28, and tickets will be available at the office of
the Director of College of Fine Arts on Monday,
April 23.
TennisCarnegie vs. West Virginia..............................Carnegie Courts
SATURDAY, APRIL 28
TennisCarnegie vs. Wash, and Jeff..............................Carnegie Courts
TrackPenn Relays and Drake Relays...........................................There
FRIDAY, MAY 4
Dance-All Night School......................................9:00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, MAY 11 
DanceTntor-Fraternity (Formal)...............9:00, Hotel Sehenley
SNIOR WEEK PLANS 
ARE WELL UNDER WAY
Tho Senior Week Commlttoo, com
posed of D. .1. Mo Gov made, chairman, 
Lillian Cowan, assistant chairman; 
J. Willard. J. Hall, and F. H. Cornel
ius, liavo boon very busy working on 
plans for tho coming event.
Tho week will in many respects, bo 
similar to those ol former years, but 
several innovations aro planned. Cor
respondence with other schools ami 
colleges lias been started to learn of 
the programs for their respective 
commencement week. The idea is not 
to imitate other schools but to get 
some good ideas and suggestions.
The committee is anxious that this 
be really a four-scliool affair and 
wants every school to take and show 
a lively interest in the program. To 
this end the committee requests in
dividuals and groups to turn in sug
gestions for events. All such sugges
tions should be turned in to the School
Postofllce addressed to tho Com
mencement Week Committee, care 
Carnegie Tartan.
Tho girls of Carnegie have assured 
tlio committee that thoy are planning 
and will havo ready sovoral surpriseevents which will interest everyone. 
Tho week will bo ono of celebration 
and all will bo in tho mood for a good 
time.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
ANNUAL JUNIOR BANQUET
APRIL 21 AT CHATHAM
(Continued from Page Ono) 
will be the president of the Student 
Council. Fritz Bowers will be pres
ent. this year because the committee 
thinks that the president of the StuIclen Council ought to be a guest of 
honor at every school function. The 
committee wishes to start this prece
dent, and it sincerely hopes that 
hereafter this highly esteemed of
ficer will be a guest at every impor| tant school affair.
Navy Offers Summer 
Course For Juniors
Carnoglo Toch has bean invited to 
nominate two Junior student^ of En
gineering Courses to study naval in
stallation during a short summer 
course under the. direction of tho 
United States Navy. The following 
letter, outlining tho proposition, has 
been received from the. Navy Depart
ment:
The suggestion has been made 
the Navy Department that it permit 
selected Engineering .students to 
study naval installations during a 
short smnmor cruise. The department 
believe this to bo an excellent idea 
and has accordingly decided to invite 
certain, universities to nominate each 
year two Junior students of high 
landing in Engineering courses to 
spend two weeks on a modern, naval 
vessel, probably the first two weeks 
in July. Every effort will be made 
to enable these representatives to 
fheneflt from tlio study of naval in
stallations as they would from any 
other extensive and up-to-date labora
tory, giving them an opportunity to 
acquaint themselves with these instal
lations in operation on cruising 
ships.
In order that the students may recoive the maximum benefit from their 
two weeks cruise on a man-o-war, 
commanding officers of the vessels 
designated will bo instructed to as
sign the student a position within 
the ships organization.
"The Department has selected the 
summer ns the preferable period for 
instruction since it comes within the 
usual vacation p'eriod of the students 
and at a time when tho ships Would 
be more available.
"The Navy Department regrets that 
thoro are no funds available to de
fray any of tho expenses that may be 
incurred by tho students, but for your 
information the cost while on board 
ship would bo small, practically the 
only item being $1.50 per day for 
meals. The main item of expense 
would, therefore, be the cost of trans
portation to and from the ships, 
which would have to be met by tho 
student accepting the invitation.
"The Navy Department would ap
preciate any suggestions that may 
occur to the University authorities, 
and requests information as to 
whether any studonts of your Univer
sity desire to avail themselves of this 
opportunity.
"Very! sinceiely,
T. ROOSEVELT, 
Acting."
Last Gen. Assembly of 
Semester Well Attended
Tho Inst general assembly of this 
semester was held at tho Carneglo 
Music Hall last; Wednesday, a large 
number of tho student body attending.
Tho Collogo Imps, ten strong, open
ed tho nsfiombly with several snappy 
pieces. Murphy and Turootto fol
lowed with two songs from tho now 
Song Book, with Al. Johnson at tho 
piano. "Dummy" S/.old next enmo on 
tho platform and announced that tho 
burlesque planned by his company 
could not bo given because of tho dis
ability ol! ono of tho mombors. As a 
substitute, however, ho offered to 
amuHO the assembly with some read
ings by tho remaining members of tho 
company. Miss Margaret Harmon 
gavo some amusing readings in dia
logue, followed by Szold, who gavo a 
couple of "maoftvojil ballads.
Tumotto, manager of tho Musical 
Clubs, announced tho Homo Goncort 
and Dance ol Ills organization. Tho 
assembly closed with the singing of 
tho Alma Mater.
DORMITES TO INNOVATE 
INTER-DORMITORY STAG
On Thursday, April 19, at 8:00 p. 
m will be held the first affair of its 
kind, an interdormitory stag, it is 
to be held in the new Scobell .Ball 
Club Room under the auspices of the 
Y. M. C. A., which is paying for the 
refreshments.
There will be speakers. Dean Tarbell pnd H. K. Kirkpatrick and an 
orchestra with a few stunts by dor
mitory men. The purpose of the stag 
is to bring the students of the dormi
tories closer togetherand create a 
better spirit among them and to get 
them acquainted with he new club 
room in Scobell Hall.
The committees are: Refreshments, 
Wilbur Karl, chairman; Samuel 
Workman and A. H. Anderson; Music, 
William Wilcox; . Entertainment, R. 
M. Cummings; Publicity, Walter Da
mon. The stag is free and an en
joyable program 1ms been arranged.
Rules and Regulations of Mens
Interfraternity Sweepstakes 1923
FRIDAY, MAY 25, 1923
1. All fraternitie who are members of the Inter-fraternity Council 
aro eligible foi4 competition.
2. Entries must bo posted with the chairman of the Sweepstakes 
committee before G p. m., May 21, 1923.
8. This event will start promptly at 10 a. m., May 25, 1923; and all
cars must be on tho speedway at 9:30 of this morning.
4. A team hall consist of 5 men, one driver and four pushers,
whose names shall be posted with the chairman of the Sweep
stakes Committee by 9 a. m. the morning of the race.
5. No man who has earned his letter in track or cross-country shall 
be eligible as a pusher.
C. Only one man may push at any one time and pushers must be 
changed at points which will be definitely marked on the day of 
tho race. Approximately these points will be: near the top of 
Toch hill (Tech street), midway between the bridge and entrance 
to Machinery Hall, and two-thirds of way up the hill in front of 
Industry Building. The same man will drive the entire course.
7. Each car must weigh at least 60 pounds, and must have four 
wheels.
8. The course will be the same as last year, starting in front of
Heat, and finishing in front of Design School.
9. All spectators must keep off the track. The committee will have 
power to disqualify any entry whose members interfere with the 
raco in any way whatsoever.
10. Silver trophies will be awarded: one to the winner of the race, 
and one to the best designed racing car. Freaks such as fish, 
chariots, cigars, grasshoppers, ships, etc., will not be considered.
SWEEPSTAKES COMMITTEE.
H. D.. Sonnemann, Chairman.
W. A. Anderson.
D. R. Williams.
W. B. Cunningham.
Architectural Year Book 
On Sale in a Few Weeks
The Carnegie Tech Architectural 
Year Book is now being printed and 
will be distributed in a few weeks. 
Two organizations, the Carnegie 
Architectural Society and the Scarab 
fraternity are responsible for the suc
cess of the publication.
The year book is the largest of its 
kind ever put out for Carnegie Tech. 
Tlie plates are the best work of the 
students and of the faculty. Prizes 
won this year by our men 'will also 
be published.
ALL BUILDINGS TO BE
OPEN EXHIBITION NIGHT
(Continued From Page One.) 
the Btudents. A radio demonstration 
is to be given in Room 208.
In tho Science Building, thoro will 
be experiments to determine specific 
heats and the expansion of metals in 
tlie Heat Laboratory; work with a 
vacuum still, Michelson Interfero
meter, polarimeter, Foucauno pendu
lum, vacuum tubes and singing tubes 
in the Light and Physics Laborator
ies, as well as chemical experiments 
in tho various Chemistry Laborator
ies. Mine models and machinery will 
lio on exhibition in the Mine labor
atory, and tho demonstratiori mine 
will bo opon.!
Programs, giving complete details 
of the exhibition, may be obtained 
In tlie Central Building.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
SENTIMENTAL AMERICA"
M. M. ASSEMBLY TOPIC
(Continuod From Pago Ono.) 
rocognized as an authority on many 
subjects.
While In Pittsburgh, Miss Repplier, 
who is an aunt of T.S. Roppllor, In
dustries, 24, will bo a guest at tlio 
homo ol! Mrs. E. M. Vormorchen, as
sistant profoBSor of English in the 
Margaret Morrison Collogo. This 
ovonlng, from four to six, she will bo 
honored at a tea to which tlvo hun
dred prominent . Pittsburgh womon 
have been invited.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS7
NAUGHTY STUDENTS SHOCK 
THE DEANS BY SMUGGLING
DEADLY JELLY BEANS
Annual Senior Ball to Be 
Heid in Arts Foyer Apr. 27
Tlio Annual Sontor Ball will this 
year talco placo on Friday evening, 
April 27. Tho affair, which will bo 
informal, will bo hold in tho loyor 
of tho Arts Collogo. Tickets for the 
ovout can bo secured from all tho 
class or section loaders.
Tho commlttoo in charge has socured tho service of tlio Pasadena 
Orchestra for tho ball. This orches
tra, which is playing its first engage
ment in Pittsburgh, has had a suecostui season at ono of the big ho
tels in Washington. D. O., and is now 
playing oil route to California.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
You dont care if I smoke, do you 
darling?
No, I dont care if you burn.
Punch.
The alarm clock usually catches a 
fellow napping.
(Continued From Page One) 
that hereafter the Seductive Sweets 
and the Criminal Chocolates were 
barred, excluded, and banished from 
tho broad realms of C. I. T. Just 
like that!
"Ditch the GumdropI Here Come 
the Cops.
But now comes the revealing end 
of the story. It discloses in a ter
rible manner to what depths the col
lege has sunkwe shrink, we shud
der, to reveal the awful details. Yet 
dooty is dooty. Brace yourself for 
a shockalmond bars and gumdrops 
are now being bootlegged to the 
youth of Carnegie Tech! Terrible as 
it may seem, there now lurks in our 
fair corridors, that menace to young 
minds, that purveyor of insidious 
sweetsthe illicit candy vendor! 
Painful mid revolting though the de
tails may seem, we must bravely look 
facts squarely in the face! This col
umn has firmly set itsolf to do away 
with that disponser of condensed vice, 
that shadow without a shape, that 
snake in tho grasstho jelly bean 
bootlegger! Alackaday, and a couple 
of nlucks, that wo should ever have 
come to such a pass. Such nice refined boys and girls, too!
Painful Peppermints.
Wo hardly daro go further, yet civ
ilization and tho worthy committee 
demands it. Tho crafty vendors luivo 
tho guile and caution of a fox, and 
tho poison of a nest of vipers. Who 
kjiows but nt any moment, when you 
and I aro unsuspectingly parading tho 
pure halls of undefamed namo, somo 
unscrupulous marshmallow merchant 
may slither slimily, out from behind a 
post, and whisper those black, damn
ing words in our oar:
"Ssh, are we alone? Lookout there's 
a dean! Ahnow thenhow about 
a stick of licorice or a chunk of Glubble bar!
Dear, dear, what will tlie youth of 
the day sink to next?
ARE YOU St PERSTITIOUS?
Annual Girls Senior Ball 
Is Entirely Enjoyed By Ail
The Girls Senior Ball was held in 
the form of a cabaret dinner dance at 
the University Club on Saturday/ 
April 14.
The hall was decorated with col
ored balloons, ferns and flowers, to
gether with two beautiful baskets of 
roses sent~ by Mrs. Scales, the hon
orary member of the olass. The table 
decorations, included candles, -flowers, 
place-cards and amusing favorsani
mal balloons, bonis and kazoos. At 
seven oclock a flve-course dinner was 
served, during which entertainment 
was provided by Miss Olga Chalmers, 
Karl Heinrich and Jean Snyder.
The Collegiate Six furnished the 
music for the dancing which lasted 
until 12 oclock.
The guests including, tlio patrons 
and patronesses were Miss Mary B. 
Breed, Miss Mary L. Brown, Mrs. 
Laura W. Scales, President Balter; 
Director and Mrs. E. R. Bossange, 
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Porter, Dean 
and Mrs. Tarbell, Miss Mary L. Wil
liams, Jane Marlcell and Helen John
son.
R. 0. T. C. Resumes Drills 
April 18; Review Scheduled
Tho R. O. T. C. drills will bo re
sumed Thursday, April 19, and it is 
planned * to have certain ceremonies 
gone through with which heretofore 
havo ibeen Impossible. Tlie formal 
inspection, guard mount and batallion 
review are on the schedule. If the 
turnout is favorable as to ubilily and 
interest, tlieso will take place.
Last Thursday the Frc-shmen had 
tho privilege of seeing "Flashes of 
Action, tho war picture which has 
boon 30 widely acclaimed as tlie "real 
stuff. Tho pictures were taken at 
tho front, and are actual battle 
scones. At the same time the upper 
classmen were given a talk on how 
to bo better officers, and how to 
command their future soldiers, with 
special emphasis on "riding the 
rookie.
QUEEN OF SHEBA TO HAVE
RIVAL CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Page One.) 
tions, and cast your ballots according
ly. It is the duty of every single stu
dent at Carnegie Tech, boys and 
girls both, to cast a ballot on this 
question, so, DO YOUR DUTY.
Preliminary nominations will take 
place on the date of regular school 
elections, or, to be exact, April 25. 
Special ballots will be prepared, and 
each student is expected to'vote for 
one girl'. The highest fifteen, will be 
placed on another ballot, and prelim
inary elections made from them op 
May 9. The highest three of these will 
'be again voted upon on May 16, with 
tlie highest one chosen as the QUEEN 
OF CAMPUS WEEK. This final 
election will take place on May 16.
The fifteen girls chosen in the pre
liminary nominations of April 25 will 
be automatically chosen as Ladies 
of the Court, thus placing their se
lection on a popularity basis as it 
should be.
Results are the only things that 
count. No matter how efficiently the 
undergraduate course in any depart
ment may be, if that efficiency is not 
carried Into the field of actual work, 
it counts for nothing.
Last week, this column spoke of 
the undergraduate work of the Social 
Work Department. This week, spe
cial emphasis will be laid on the 
graduate work.
Proof that the arrangement of work 
in this department is ideal is amply 
given in the results. If a training is 
correct, nothing under the sun can 
prevent success attending later ef
forts.
And so it is, the Carnegie Tech So
cial Work Department can well lay 
claims to greatness, for their grad
uates are scattered throughout the 
world, doing a gTeat work.
For instance:
MARY WENZEL used to hold posi
tion in the American Missions Girls 
College, Sharia Alba, 'Cairo, Egypt, 
and is now with the American College 
for Girls, Constantinople, Turkey.
KITTY MMULLEN: Southern
Presidents Mission, Chinkiang, 
China.
HARRIET ELLIS: Canteen work
er during World War. Died while in 
service.
JEAN EAKIN: Director of the
Good Fellowship Club House, Vassar 
College, where she is planning and su
pervising work with a hundred or 
more men and women employees of 
the College.' These include all na
tionalities and a wide range of ages.
BETH PORTER and ELIZABETH 
GITT are both in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., 
where they are engaged in child plac
ing work with the local Charity So
ciety.
SUSAN SHEDD has carried the 
banner of the department into Persia 
where she is superintending an orphan 
asylum.
MARIAN BACH: With the White
Williams Foundation in Philadelphia^
MARY CURRY: In York, Pa.,,
working with the Associated Chari
ties.
SUSAN GOODCHILD: With wel
fare workers in Rhode Island.
MRS. ELLA MEYER is in charge of 
publicity work with Red Cross in 
Chicago.
BETTY HAZLETT is connected 
with the State Department in Charles
ton, W. Va. Is now working on a re
vision of the State Childrens Code.
ETHEL A. SMITH: Doing welfare 
/work in Huntingdon, W. Va.
LAURA BUGHER is in charge of 
the gymnasium and group work at 
Heinz House.
PHYLLIS MMARLIN is head of 
the social service department of the 
Childrens Hospital.
RACHAEL BEATTY is in the so
cial service department of the West 
Penn Hospital,
TWILA DAVIS is at the Eye and 
Ear Dispensary.
JO WHITNEY is at the Mercy Hos
pital.
AMELIA SHADE is with the Moth
ers Assistant Fund of Allegheny 
County.
AMELIA IGEL is in charge of a 
new childrens bureau organized by" 
the Federation of Jewish Philanthro
pies.
MARGARET HOLLER is with the 
Childrens Service Bureau.
VIRGINIA PENTZ is doing health 
education work in the schools under 
the Tuberculosis League of Pitts
burgh.
GLENN SHUFF, AGNES RUS
SELL and ANNA DOUGHERTY are 
with the Associated Charities.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
DIR. BOSSANGE RESIGNS
-ro GO TO PRINCETON
(Continued from Page One) 
fields, operate on the general scheme 
to combine general studies with tech
nical work, taking advantage of the 
fact that technical work in the arts 
is in itself of great cultural value.
Mr. Bossange had been asked to de
liver, an address at the dedication of 
llie new building of the School of 
Architecture, to be known as McCor
mick Hall;- at Princeton, which was 
to have .been dedicated yesterday. 
Mr. McCormick, of Chicago, the donor 
of the building, however, was unex
pectedly called to Europe and the 
dedication exercises have been post
poned until Commencement Week.
Mrs. Bossange and their two sons 
will leave Pittsburgh, April 25th.
Josephine (reading aloud the con
clusion of a long letter)Then I will 
come home and marry the sweetest 
little girl on earth.
JulietWhat a dirty trick, after be
ing engaged to you.The Black and 
Magenta. '*
pgjpfj*
LIFE
One has not really lived 
until he has gone abroad. 
No need to put off the 
trip until another y6ar, 
The same rare interest 
awaits.
Let us arrange every
thing for you, passage, 
letters of credit, side 
trips, through our Steam
ship Agency.
Mellon National BankOliuer Jlue.S Smvthfield
il ^
DELTA PHI DELTA RANKS
FIRST IN SCHOLARSHIP
(Continued from Page One) 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Pi Kappa Alpha,
Square & Compass,
Sigma Epsilon Phi,
Tau Gamma Phi,
Beta Sigma Rho,
Theta Xi,
-Sigma Nu,
Kappa Sigma Rhc.
If they had to turn their owes 
grindstone fewer people would have 
axes to grind.
Colored OfficerEyes right! 
Private DittoYou are like hell. 
Froth.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
Sunday Services:
Church School ............ 9:45 A.M.
Open Forum ..................10:00 A.M.
Religious Worship... 11:00 A.M. 
Young Peoples Relig
ious Union ................ 7:15 P.M.
 Wednesday.
Womans Alliance... .11:00 A.M. 
A cordial invitation is extended. 
REV. L. WALTER MASON, D.D. 
Pastor.
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
Students not equipped with a leath
er brief case, a good fountain pen, 
Eversharp Pencil, bill fold, and at 
least one piece of "Tech jewelry 
should visit the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
Wluit was tlio matter 
with Professor Henry this 
morning? 1'vo never seen 
. him so peeved. He seemed 
} J to bo boiling over."
Pythias
Moiling over is good. He 
was. Didn't you notice 
why? The oUl hoy had mis
laid his 'Eldorado pencil."
EdffibO
~Bie master drawingpencil 
17 leadiall dealert
Tell your physics prof. 
that this cap defies gravity
SHAVING cream caps have an uncanny habit of 
chumming with gravity. Thats why the Williams 
Hinged Cap shown here is so remarkable. You cant per
suade it to roll down a drain pipe. It refuses to go near 
the bathroom floor. In brief, it defies all previous laws 
governing the behavior of shaving cream caps.
 Williams Shaving Cream, in the same way, upsets 
all traditions about shaving. First of all, it exceeds every 
known speed limit for softening the beard. You can 
get your face ready for shaving in less time with 
Williams than with any shaving cream you ever used.
In the second place, Williams has a positive effect 
for good on the skin. Your
face, with the wholesome care fV.eVou
which Williams gives, is kept 
in better condition and made 
more comfortable.
Test out these advantages 
which Williams offers. Start 
with Williams to-morrow 
and see what a time saver it 
is and how it helps make 
shaving more enjoyable.
losa itand the tuba hangs up I
Shaving Cream

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
JUPITER PLUVIUS 
TRIMS TENNIS TEAM
Spring Showers Prevent Outdoor Practice For 
Racqueteers
April showers may bring May flow
ers, but they hold up tennis pro
gress. Old Man Pluvius has put a 
check on the effort oC the tennis 
coach, Chuck Garland, in his plan to 
make a fair survey of all candidates 
and give every man an equal oppor
tunity to demonstrate his skill with 
the racquet, before he reduces the 
squad of some thirty furture players.
This coming Saturday, April 21, 
Captain Schwartz will take his team 
to Morgantown, W.Va., for the open
ing match of the Tartan schedule. 
The University of West Virginia rac
quet men have' had the advantage 
over the Carnegie lads this spring in 
regards to training. The University 
affoids indoor courts for the Moun
taineer tenni3 squad who have been 
practicing all during the winter 
months.
West Virginia has been a strong 
opponent of the Carnegie net men for 
the last three years, but not once 
did they take either the home match 
or the return one. In 1921, with 
the best team ever put out at tho 
University, they managed to tie the 
Plaid wielders and give them a scare 
in their hopes of tri-state champion
ship.
Tryouts for the Skibo squad were 
scheduled to take place last Satur
day, and the courts were in fair 
enough condition to accommodate 
the candidates, but rain and snow put 
a damper to the scheme as outlined. 
A notice for future tryouts will ap
pear on the campus bulletin boards 
some day this week.
A probable) team cannot be named 
at this time, as there is much com
petition for the few open positions. 
Coach Garland will' no doubt select 
a representative team, to tackle West 
Virginia, from his own experience in 
judging the type and kind of players 
 who will best All the position) for an 
emergency team. This t^am will by 
no means be tho permanent one, for 
there is much good material yet to 
be discovered and it will eventually 
be discovered by means of a series 
of planned matches among the list 
of candidates.
Tlie following men have been out 
for practice for some time and they 
will* be better equipped to compete 
in the tryouts: Captain Schwartz,
Kell, H. N. Smith, Kemery, Hauser, 
Marshall, Berno, Simpson, Van Atta, 
O'Connor, McClain, Housour, Iiegner, 
Buchheit, Nosun, West, Cochrane, 
Caven, Jones, H.  R., Sandberg, McCroba, Early, Beecher, Poller and Joe 
Frumbaugh.
The next match after the one at 
West Virginia, will be at home 
against W. ond J. Saturday, April 
28th.
The tennis courts are not under 
the jurisdiction of the general ath
letics at Carnegie Tech, and in order 
to maintain them a tennis association 
was formed several years ago, giving 
all students like privileges of their 
use, provided they secure a card at 
tlie cashiers office and live up to the 
conditions as stated on the cards. 
Managers will 'adhere strictly to 
members of the courts and refuse all 
others the privilege of U3ing them at 
any time.
TENNIS COURT PERMITS
AVAILABLE FROM CASHIER
Any student or alumni may secure 
a printed tennis permit at the school 
cashiers office in Central Building.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
TRACK SEASON STARTS 
WITH TWO BIG MEETS
Ten days for the track athletes 
to get ready for the first track meet 
of the current season. Already Coach 
Beeler is selecting in his mind the 
men who shall represent the Plaid 
out in far-away Iowa and in Phila
delphia on Saturday, April 2S.
A speedy quartet will be sent to 
the Penn Relay Carnival. This years 
meet in Franklin Field will be one 
of the best in the history of the 
event. In addition to the cream of 
American competition, the crack re
lay team' from Oxford will journey 
across the Atlantic to display their 
heels to competitors, If possible.
All of the large colleges of tlie 
East will be represented in some 
events, any manyi stars from the 
western coast will appear. Among 
these latter, it is probable that 
Charlie Paddock, of the University of 
Southern California, will prove a 
headline attraction. Coach Beeler 
is not yet ready to announce his final 
selections for the relay team to rep
resent the Tartans, but seems to be 
well pleased with the showing made 
by some of the speedsters who have 
been working hard for a berth in the 
delegation.
Another meet which will attract na
tional attention on the same day is 
the Dx-ake Relays, to be held at 
Drake' College, Iowa. At present it 
appears that Carnegie will be xepresented in one or two special events 
in which we are strong.
One of these events will be the 
broad jump. Thei-e are at least four 
men in the school wno can do well 
over twenty feet, and who are mak
ing good progress under the eyes of 
Beelei-. Among the jumpers who ax*e 
standing out as varsity prospects are 
Pittman, who at present holds tlie 
school record in that event, and Rob
ertson, Bohn and Bastian.
One or two weight men in addition 
to the broad jump ax'tists, will possi
bly be> sent to the western meet. It 
is too early, however, to make a fair 
estimate as to who will be chosen 
in this classOn the Plaid Screen
INTER-FRAT RUNNERS 
IN PRELIMS THIS WEEK
By H. H. WILSON
BRAWN PLUS BRAINS
This is a combination that is rather scarce among Carnegie Tech ath
letes. And when we speak of brains, we mean tho kind that can absorb tho 
teachings of the classroom, the intricacies of trigonometry and calculus. We 
dont mean to infer that the majority of Plaid athletes aro dumbbells in 
the true sense of the word, but that a good many of them cannot co
ordinate their athletic activities with their scholastic work in such a way 
as to do both creditably.
What we are trying to get at is tho fact that Carnegie Tech will never 
have real athletic teams under the present scholastic standards. An athlete 
must put iix so much of his time in training for future athletic events and at 
the same tixne he must devote sufficient time to his studies in order to re
main on the eligibility list. The scholastic standards of the school cannot 
be lowered and so the solution of the problem seems to be in impressing upon 
the athletes the importance of a closely drawn division of their time between 
atlxltic activities, scholastic work, recreation, and the important factor of 
I sleep.
Some of our best athletes are high scholastically, a number of them 
being members of honorary scholarship societies. However, there are some 
at the other end of the scale who are either ineligible most of the time or 
are unable to stay in school for any length of time. With the Freshman 
rule going Into effect next fall the factor of eligibility will become of still 
greater importance. The question is: CAN A WAY BE FOUND OUT OF, 
THE DIFFICULTY?
Plebes May Still Try
For Football Manager
Plebes who hesitated about enter
ing the football manager competition 
last fall now have anotlxer opportun
ity to enter a major school activity. 
The spring football practice has 
created a demand for more assistant 
managers, and those who come out 
for the competition now, can, by 
working, establish themselves, upon 
the same plane as the other Fresh
men who are oixt for this manager
ship. Manager Pat Ryan states that 
there is an excellent cnanca for aixy 
good Plebe who may start working 
now to gain recogaltion in this big 
activity.
Maggy Murph Sophs Win 
Plebe-Soph Gym Meet
Wednesday afternoon brought out 
much enthusiasm from the halls of 
Maggie Murph when the Sophomores 
and Freshmen participated in a gym
nastic meet, the first of its kind ever 
held on the campus. Thero was 
marching, drilling and games directed 
by Miss Ida Spurrier.
The Sophomores won with a score 
of 94, while the Freshmen scored 82.
Tho winners were awarded a beau 
tiful silver cup, a gift of the Junior 
class, presented by Dean Brown. The 
two upper classes came out to cheer 
for their sister teams The Juniors 
were surrounded with blue and gold, 
the Freshmen colors, while the Sen
iors wore yellow and green for the 
Sophomores.
Davies & Hughes
Oaklans Men's Store
HATS CAPS MENS FURNISHINGS
3615 Forbes Street Next to Strand Theater
Open every night
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
| Flowers for Every Occasion
X Gift Boxes
y Corsages
X Plants
**? Decorations
Tech students will find that our pricas are in keeping with the 
> quality and service.
| A. W. Smith Company
 LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
 Phone Smithfield 327.
g Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
We heard that the new gym is being expei-imented upon somewhere 
down in the confines of Maggie Murph. Theyre determining the utility of 
concrete floors in temporary showers and dressing rooms for the 1923 foot
ball squad. Well see a miracle next fallfootball men attending Maggie 
Murph.
Meanwhile our R. O. T. C. rifle team is using tho afore-mentioned domi
cile as an indoor rifle range. This is what we would call killing two birds 
with one shot.
CROWN THE VICTOR
One of our Greek societies has offered a laurel wreath or something like 
that for the Greek Olinxpers who will do their utmost this week to get a 
good start toward winning it. We predict some lxunxorous proceedings in 
some of the events but still sincerely hope that Beeler will bo able to sift 
out a few stars for his track squad.
There must have been some oversight on the part of the committee of 
management who.arranged the dates of the meet. It happens that on Tues
day and Thursday evenings and on Saturday afternoon games in the Inter
fraternity basket ball series are taking place. These will seriously conflict 
on Saturday and will in general make it rather of a strenuous week for those 
men who participate in both events.
Sigma Nu jumped into the lead this week in the post-season basket ball 
series by beating the Iota Slgs by a close margin. However, as was proved 
last yeax*, the ilrst week does not always tell the story.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Iota Sigma Delta Loses 
In Game With Sigma Nu
Last Satuxxlay afternoon Sigma Nu 
defeated Iota Sigma Delta In a game 
that was very hotly and closely con-; 
tested. Tho final score was 16 to 13.
It was rather difficult to tell 
whether the game being played was 
football or basket ball. On several 
occasions tho enthusiastic players 
xnado some beauliful tackles. At 
other times Referee Moses would 
have to dig down to the bottom of a 
big pile and try to locate the ball. 
The game was thrilling to say the 
least.
Iota Sigma Delta led at the end of 
the illst half and kept up this lead 
until nearly the end when the Sigma 
Nus with the aid of Cy Comfort and 
Garland Lamb came through with two 
baskets and decisively won the game.
The Lineup:
Sigma Nu. Iota Sigma Delta.
Lamb .......................F....................... Cooper
Bubb ........................F................... Wilson
Gilbert ....................C....................... Byerly
Farrell ...................G................. Ilegdren
Comfort .................G........ Kennedy
Field goalsLamb 4, Gilbert 1, 
Farrel 1. Comfort 1.
OfficialsMoses and Fink.
Sigma Nus Down Xi Sigs 
In Coampionship Game
In a disappointingly slow contest in 
the Field House last Tuesday night, 
the Sigma Nu Fraternity quintet 
gained a stronger hold on the cham
pionship by defeating the representa
tives of Xi Sigma Upsilon. The score 
was 20-8 when the. referee blew the 
final whistle.
A small but enthusiastic crowd wit
nessed the triumph of the Sigma Nus. 
As the score indicates, the XI Sigs 
were the least successful in their 
tries for the coveted basket.
In regard to teamwork, the two ag
gregations were about evenly divided. 
No outstanding plays were recorded, 
and little in the way of individual 
starring was apparent.
The personnel of the Sigma Nu 
team included Lamb and Bubb, for
wards; Gllbex*t, center; Comfort and 
Ferrall, guards. The Xi Sigma Upsi
lon warriors were L. E. Jones and 
Murray, foiwards; Reed, center; D. C. 
Jones and P. McLean, guards.
M. M. PLEBES ENTERTAIN
SOPHOMORE WITH DANCE
One hundred and fifty couples filled 
the Carnegie Union last Saturday 
night at the annual M. M. FreshmanSophomox-e dance, given by the 
Freshman to the Sophomores. Re
freshments were served during the 
evening and dancing continued xxntii 
midnight. Music was provided by the 
Collegiate Imps.
The patrons and partonesses were 
Mx\ and Mrs. E. E. Heins, Mr. and 
Mrs. John Carson, Mrs. F. P. Weaver 
and Mr. and Mrs. Spencer.
The committee in charge was Mr. 
Cunningham, social chairman; Mary 
Davenport, Madeline Dale and Mary 
Hughes.
TENNIS RACQUETS 
RESTRUNG BY 
PITTSBURGHS EXPERT
Bring racquet to Tennis Room 
in Field House Mondays or 
Wednesdays betv/een 4:30-5:30.
Put in your order for fresh 
tennis balls.
See Jack Ferguson, Assistant 
Tennis Manager.
FatimaWhy do clgarots have Ori
ental names?
MuradBecause they have good 
shapes and thin wrappersTho Black 
and Magenta.
That makes me feel sheepish,' 
said the young man as tho vamp 
tried to pull the wool over his eyes. 
Lemon Punch.
Track eligibility rules were some
what. clarified at tho inter-fraternity 
traolc managers meeting hold in tho 
Y. M. C. A. room last Friday. Tlio 
rule stating that those who havo 
made their letter in track were in
eligible to participate was explained 
as meaning that those men who havo 
already be^n awarded tho "0" in 
track (which does not include cross 
country) would be ineligible, but any
one earning their "C at the present 
time would be allowed to participate.
Entries have been received from 
practically every fraternity and dormi
tory, and with favorable weather the 
various events which started yester
day with the 100-yard dash should 
draw large numbers to Carneglo Tech 
Field. All participants must report 
promptly at 4:30 during tho week for 
the preliminaries or will bo unable 
to take part in tho semi-finals and 
finals to bo held Saturday, commenc
ing at 2:30.
A largo sign showing how each fra
ternity and dormitory stands in tho 
semi-finals, finals, and the total num
ber of points each lias in tho sepa
rate events will be put up on ono of 
the bulletin boards for the bonofit of 
the student body. This list will be 
kept up to date, and will Indicate just 
how the various, organizations stand 
in the meets. It is thought this will 
serve a useful purpose, and will tend 
to keep the interest at a high point.
While tho weather has not boon of 
tho best the last few days and it 
was not possible for tho candidates 
to get as much benefit as was desixed 
out of tho woxkouts for the events be
ing held this week, thoro is no reason 
for not having all men in tho host of 
condition for the big relay race to bo 
held on May 26. This is an event 
well worth winning, as a liandsomo 
silver cup will bo given by Coach Paul 
Beeler to tlio victor. In addition, tho 
relay will count double points toward 
tho Theta Tail Cup, which will bo pre
sented to the organization having tho 
greatest number of points at tho end 
of tho moots.
FORTY HIGH SCHOOLS 0 
ENTER TEAMS IN MEET
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Wo are told that a collogo is an in
stitution run in conjunction with a 
football team.Exchange.
Up to tho present time thero aro 
forty high schools entered in tho Intorscholastic Track Moot to bo hold 
horo on May 5 This moans that thoro 
will bo about a thousand athletes ontered. Tho moot this year will thus 
bo on a much larger scale and mean 
moro for Carnegio Toch than over be
fore.
Plans aro boing made to have tho 
various fraternities at school enter
tain the high school moil who have 
to como hero from places far out of 
town. Tho fraternities will put tho 
teams up for tlio night and show them 
around the campus.
Tho progxam of entertainment has 
not yet boon definitely settled upon. 
This is duo to tlio fact that definite 
Information as to tlio time of arrival 
of most of tlio entries Is not yet 
known. However there will on enter
tainment provided for thorn.
Tho cups and medals havo been 
obtained and will bo placed on exhibi
tion at some of tho downtown stores 
sometime this week. Tho two cups 
given for the winner of tho moot and 
tho winner of tho famous rolay races 
aro very handsome and will make 
some keen competition.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
TECHNICAL JOURNAL
SELECTS NEW STAFF
(Continued From Pago One.) 
agor; L. I-Iortzinan, circulation man
ager.
G. A. Martin, tho advertising man
ager, has done exceptional work, In
asmuch as tho largo amount of adver
tising socured has reduced tho ex
pense of publishing tho Journal to 
a minimum.
"Horo waitress, this doughnut has 
a tack in it.
"Woll, I declare, Ill bet tho ambi
tious llttlo thing thinks its a illvvor 
tiro.Tho Black and Magontn. 1
HoThis storm may put tho lights 
out. Aro you afraid?
Slio-No, not If you will talco that 
clgarot out of your mouth.Gold and 
Black.
CARNEGIE SPIRIT 
PREVAILS AT BOWL
Bright Red Football Jerseys 
Now Mingle With Green 
on Athletic Field
Over on Woodlawn avenue in tho 
llttlo city of Carneglo Toch thoro' ira 
a natural hollow known as tlio Car
negie Bowl, and in that bowl may b 
soon ono of tho prettlost sights on tho 
whole campusmoro than fifty bright 
red jerseys dotting tho expanso o 
60,000 square feet of solid green turf 
on tho gridiron.
Every afternoon new recruits wet 
added to tho spring football list o 
possible and probablo candidates xmtil tho Freshman field became so smalft 
that they wore forced to movo to tho 
Bowl.
Before tlid lads moved to the new 
field, Manager Ryan and his gang oC 
cohorts had rolled it down until Wt 
presented an appearance of tho eight
eenth green on a golf course.
To see tlieso fellows booting anfi 
passing the old pigskin around, would! 
almost lend an eye-witness to bellov 
that tho seasons of tho year at Carnogle had been Interchangedsoearnest are these fellows In tholr 
daily workout under tho supervision 
of field coaches Dr. Marks and AH 
Irwin; yet it is only spring practice.
Instead of the frown that could 
havo been seen on the faces of the 
coachos about two weeks ago, they 
now wear a broad smilo which seem 
to ponotrato ovory player as ho goes 
about his outlined job of having the 
technique of football drilled into him 
as though it. were play and not work.
Captaln-eloot, Jimmio Robertson, 
who has been in track training for 
the last two months now alternates 
his time botween tho path, tho pit; 
and tho gridiron. Tho samo may b 
an id of a half dozen otlior votorana 
who need loss of tho Bprlng training: 
than tho now mon.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
2-1What mudo you lato for class? 
25I had a flat tiro.
2*1-Who was slio?Contro BAYYAQAM
The University of Engineering
Of all the things that go to make the 
successful engineer, none is more impor
tant, nor more in step with the spirit of the 
profession, than a studious attitude. One 
man says about anotherhe is always 
willing to learn, he doesnt think he 
knows it alland he intends to pay a 
high compliment when he says it.
The great engineers are always at 
school, always learning, always seeking 
for more knowledge. They begin with 
this desire for fuller understanding, and 
they keep it up to the end.
Any engineering operation, over and 
above the primary purpose for which it is 
carried out, is an active and post-gradu
ate class in engineering, also. So that 
Westinghouse, or any other great business,
is, of its very nature, a University where 
theory and practice combine to make big
ger, broader and more practical engineers.
The courses in this University arc not 
limited to prescribed subjects nor terms 
the subjects are almost infinite, and the 
semesters are endless. Men with the 
weight of years on their shoulders work 
and learn side-by-side with those whose 
day has just dawned.
This post-graduate school fits men for 
almost anything. Fits them for it, and 
makes them continually fitter. Out of 
this continuing fitness have grown the 
engineering accomplishments on which 
this institution has grown. It is, per
haps, one of the great educational insti
tutions of its day.
Westinghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
TDS4EY,:30H4S L S2SBEUYB

---------------------------------------------------

*AGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13. 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
THE PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The 1923 dinner dance of the Phil
adelphia Clan is now history. _ It was 
one of the most enjoyable and best 
attended affairs in the annals of the 
local Clan, and as such will be long 
remembered by those present.
Members and guests assemuied on 
Saturday evening, April 14, in the 
Green Room of the Adelphia Hotel. 
The dinner gong was sounded prompt
ly at 7 oclock by Mr. Shaub. Betwoen courses Lippincott "'Had the 
time of his life acting as song and 
cheerleader, while Pop Stewart vol
unteered at the piano. One of the 
song hits of the evening was a ver
sion of O! Mr. Gallagher, written 
by Mr. Exline, who like all true art
ists, awoke one night with an inspir
ation and began making up lines 
about his fellow Clan members.
Following the excellent repast 
came short talks) by Dornberger of 
New York Clan, and Mrs. Green and 
Whiting of Harrisburg Clan. Then 
everyone got up and told who they 
were and what tbey were doing. 
Charles voiced a happy thought 
when he said, Say it with music, 
and the dancing started. There was 
a specialty number by Miss Steinxnacher, assisted by Lippincott, a solo 
dance by Miss Mahan, and just a 
little later a Paul Jones. Everyone 
had a good time and thanked Exline, 
chairman of the Banquet Committee, 
for the efforts of his committee, 
which had made so great a success 
possible. The programs, in full kilti 
TOgalia, contributed by Miss Steinanacher, were a fine example of her 
artistic skill.
jNORFOLK CLAN TO INTRODUCE DEFINITE PROGRAMS
April the fourth the Norfolk Clan 
of Tidewater, Va., gathered for their 
monthly meeting in Mr. Spegil's of
fice and later adjourned to the Hotel 
Fairfax where dinner was served in 
a private room reserved for the Clan.
This was one of the most enjoya
ble and successful gatherings that the 
Clan has ever held. The future cnes, 
however, will be better. A more 
definite program has been arranged. 
After much persuasion a number of 
our Clansmen were inveigled to con
senting to discuss several humorous 
subjects seriously. On account of 
tlieir particular vocation, their inti
mate knowledge on the subjects, their 
actual exporiei.ee and their maturity 
of' judgment we know that we will 
receive some very good first hand in
formation. Knowing them as we de, 
we are sure they will not disappoint 
us.
POSITIONS OPEN * 
TO GRADUATES! 
AND STUDENTS
,*************** + *,ENG1NEER1NG SUMMER
COURSE AT U. OF ILLA CORRECTION
Architects, Mechanicals, and 
Designers in Strong Demand 
at Alumni - Student Place
ment Bureau
Duo to au unfortunate incident, *:! 
> several items of AlumTii nows *! j 
> failed to appear in last weeks !
* Carnegie Tartan. vj
v Among these was the imp or:* 
-! tant announcement that Monday I
* evening, April 16, was to be set *
* aside for the Alumni at the Lit*> 
Jtie Theater. As a result of this, *>
* tho Alumni Office was caused a v
Bill Says:
WASHINGTON CLAN BREAKS
FORTH WITH EASTER DANCE
The Easter dance of the Washing
ton Clan was given at the home of 
Ivatliryne Harris, 1505 Lamont street, 
N. W., with a good attendance. A 
three-piece orchestra furnished the 
music which was very good. Refresh
ments were .served during intermis
sionthe best ice cream in town, 
home-made cake, and punch. Those 
present included the Misses Harris, 
Tibbetts, Staples and Stabler, and the 
Messrs. Little, Pringle, Zobel, Haller, 
Ragsdale, OKeefe, Grant, Arnold, and 
Hummer, besides the guests of the 
evening. The committee on arrange
ments consisted of Carl Zobel and 
Kathryne Harri^
APPLY IMMEDIATELY
The Magnolia Petroleum 
Bui I dins, Dallas, Texas 
ALFRED C. DOSSOM, 
Architect
Drawn by 
Hugh Fcrriss
"Sheer Height
'THE American business building represents a distinct and national 
architectural style when its design frankly emphasizes its sheer 
height and outwardly expresses the inner facts of its construction. 
The tall buildings which stand as monuments throughout the coun
try to the vision of our architects and the skill of our engineers have, 
in the gigantic profiles which they rear against the sky, the true Amer
ican spitit of aspiration and progress toward even greater achieve
ments.
Certainly modern inventionmodem engineering skill andorganiza-tinly modern inventionmodern cngineenng skill and organiza
tion, will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture 
of the future.
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
ALflfr
4fe1\ai|road Man
On a Brunswick Record
No. 2399 
Railroad ManFox Trot
Carl Fentons Orchestra
Peggy DearFox Trot
Gene Rodemichs Orchestra
Something new every day!
No more waiting! Brunswick dealers 
have new records every day.
And there is flawless tone-beauty in 
Brunswick Recordsthey play on any 
phonograph.
The Alumni-Student Placement Bu
reau had the following positions open 
at tlie time of going to press. If you 
are interested in any of these posi
tions get in touch with the Alumni 
Office at once, as positions are filled 
very quickly at the present time.
1. Designers for reinforced con
crete or structural steel. Little ex
perience but men wanted who are per
manently interested in design. 
Youngstown, Ohio.
2. Engineer or designer for me
chanical design or experimental work 
on tools. Tool experience necessary, i 
Pittsburgh district.
3. Designers with considerable ex
perience for plant work. Pittsburgh 
district.
4. Two electrical draftsmen. One 
experienced in layout of transformers 
sub-stations. One checker of electric
al equipment and structural details.
5. Graduate with several years ma
chine shop experience able to handle 
men. About 30 years old. Hagers| town, Md.
G. Several estimators for machin
ery manufacturers. Mechanical en
gineer or machine construction grad
uates. Pittsburgh district.
7. Furnace designer and drafts
man. Must have two years experi
ence in furnace design. Pittsburgh 
district.
8. Machine designer. Shafting ex
perience. 175. Beaver Falls.
9. Mechanical draftsman who has 
had a little designing experience. $150- 
$175. Lisbon, Ohio.
10. Mechanical detailer leading to 
designing.' $110-?150. Milwaukee.
11. Three mechanical draftsmen. 
Three or four years experience. Clairton, Pa.
12. Mechanical designer on gen
eral machine design. Experienced, 
$175 up. .Canton, Ohio.
13. '22 mechanicals or civils. One 
for testing work in physical labora
tory. One as draftsman. $125-$150. 
New Kensington.
14. One chemist. Night turn. 
Analysis on iron and steel. Open 
hearth experience. Coraopolis.
15. Mechanical drawing teacher. 
Teaching experience desired but not 
necessary. Salary up to $200. 
Youngstown.
1G. Several openings for manual
training teachers. $1,500-$2,000.
17. Draftsman on pneumatic ma
chinery. One years designing expe
rience Swlssvale.
18. Several mechanical and civil
draftsmen. $100-?300. Springdale.
19. Graduate civil engineer for 
construction and field work around 
steel mill. Steubenville, Ohio.
20. Two civil rodmen and two civil 
transitmen. Springdale.
21. Several men for power trans
mission work. One or two years experience. Pittsburgh vicinity.
22. One recent civil graduate for 
road construction. $125-$150. Pitts
burgh district.
23. Structural detailing draftsmen. 
South Bend, Indiana.
24. One civil for industrial work 
which includes scheduling and rout
ing experience. Two years' railroad 
experience. ?150-$175 and expenses. 
Near Chicago.
25. One mechanical graduating 
with five years' experience.
26. One mechanical or commercial. 
Five years experience.
27. Mechanical designer. Experi
enced. Milwaukee.
28. Several architects. Pittsburgh, 
New Castle, Charleston, W. Va., and 
other localities.
29. Timekeeper on construction of 
four-story building at Beaver Falls. 
$4-$6 a day.
30. One electrical or science grad
uate for laboratory work on oscillat
ing circuits.
il. Two electrical equipment and 
construction men for office work in 
sales department. $150.
32. One electrical salesman. 
Knowledge of electric construction, 
materials and uses. $150-$200. Pitts
burgh.
33. One metallurgical or mechanic
al for planning department. One to 
three years experience on open 
hearth. Pittsburgh district.
34. Mechanical engineer for pro
ducing department. Pleasing person
ality and ability to handle men. 
Charleston, W. Va.
35. Several openings for outside 
salesmen on commission.
3G. One man for advertising work. 
$125. Pittsburgh.
37. Young engineering graduate to 
supervise gas burner installation in 
bread baking machine. $125 plus trav
eling expenses. Saginaw, Mich.
38. Instructor in clay working. 
Must be sculptor and know period or
nament and be able to apply plastic 
arts to various trades. Trenton, N. J.
39. Sales engineers. Two or three 
years' varied engineering and sales 
experience. Out of New York City.
40. Timekeeper. Little engineering 
training. Leecliburg, Pa.
41. Two civils for railroad work. 
Four or five years experience.
42. Steam engineer for packing 
company. Iowa.
43. Designers. Considerable expe
rience. Pittsburgh.
44. Engineering draftsman. Pitts
burgh. $169.
Announcement from tho University 
of Illinois received by Director W. E. 
Mott of tho Engineering College, calls 
attention to (ho Advanced Courses in 
Engineering Mechanics and Mechan
ical Engineering to be given this sum
mer, from June IS to August 11.
An extract from a letter describing 
the courses follows: 1 am writing 
-I* great deal of embarrasment aud *1* ' to call your attention to advanced 
Iinconvenience, and went to a I courses in Mechanics and Mechanical
* great deal of trouble in trying ! Engineering that will be offered in tho
to remedy the situation. *  coming Summer Session of the UniAnother item was a list of ** \ versity of Illinois. It is the thought
* forty-one position that the AlumI that these courses may prove attract
ive to some of tho younger members
i of the instructional staffs of engiueor| ing colleges of the country and to 
! others who wish to spend further 
j time in study.
j The courses include various parts 
j of mechanics of materials, properties 
I and testing of materials, thermo-dyna
mics and heat media, with laboratory
ni Office had on record as being
* vacant. Sincothat time the list 
v has increased considerably and
* is given in full in this issue, 
v Notice of Philadelphia Clan
* annual dinner was also omitted.
45. Civil for maintenance of way 
on street railways. Pittsburgh.
46. Civil for inspection. $115-$175. 
Hollidaysburg.
47. Structural engineers for power 
station work. Boston.
48. Draftsman. For railroad work. | 
Pittsburgh.
49. Man for "selling research." 
New York.
50. Commercial engineer. Ono or 
two years experience. Piqua, Ohio.
51. Two draftsmen for * ammonia 
compressor works. Waynesboro, Pa.
52. Mechanical Engineerdrafting 
and maintenance of efficiency of
procedure and investigations.
Dean Porter, Peking Univ. 
GivesMllustrated Lecture
Dehii Lusius C. Porter of Peking 
University, spoke last Monday even
ing at the Carnegie Lecture Hall, on 
People and Palaces in Peking.
Dr. Bingham introduced the speak
er, who illustrated his lecture with 
a series of r-lidos. The first set 
showed pictures of palaces, public 
buildings, temples, walls, and - gates 
as they exist around the ancient city 
steam pumping stations. $1S1. Pittsj 0j Peking. Another sot of slides
burgh.
53. Junior dust explosion preven
tion engineers.
54. Several salesmen for water 
softeners aud filters. Pittsburgh.
55. Detail draftsman for gear work 
and -general repair of plant. Pitts
burgh.
56. One teacher, algebra, general 
science and mechanical drawing and 
wood working.
57. One draftsman. Monessen, Pa.
58. Five civils on railroad location 
surveys and construction, 
five years experience.
59. Two civils on railroad location 
and connstruction. Designing mason
ry, bridges, etc. $200 up. Pittsburgh.
60. Draftsmen for rolling mill and 
furnace work. Midland, Pa.
61. Chemical or metallurgical en
gineer. Now Castle, Pa.
62. Two mechanical engineers. Now 
Castle, Pa.
63. Structural and mechanical 
draftsmen. Experience. Wollston, 
Ohio.
Carneglo men interested in any of 
the above positions or similar posi
tions please submit your latest ad
dress together with a synopsis of ex
perience.
Recently the word was given out 
by school authorities that students 
who havo been soiling candy on the 
campus must secure permits to carry 
on their business. It now appears 
that there is no such thing as per
mits to bo secured; at least nono 
have been issued to date, in the three 
mens schools. It seems that the 
candy has been ruining tho health of 
tho students and tlio above method 
has been resortod to for the purpose 
,of checking further inroads on Car
negie health. Sweets are being sold 
in tho M. M. buildiug under the aus
pices of a student organization which 
should promote iustead of hinder the 
development of individual health.
In drafting room this measure 
works a hardship on members of a 
certain class who are sent on regular 
pilgramages to the various campus 
restaurants for candy supplies for 
the men at work.
Men who are watchful for the state 
of their health can pass the candy 
box without so much as a glance at 
it. Those who do not worry over the 
state of their health will buy the 
candy at the SCHOOL RESTAURANT. 
So why keep a man from earning 
some legitimate expense money.
If this command is to bo effective 
it should be applied to all schools, 
Meaning that a girls health will bo 
affected in much the same manner as 
a boys; if not move so.
Everybody has their own idea as to 
WHAT injurs tho health of others.
showed the streets of the city with 
their homes. Some slides showing 
different types of the people com
prised the third part of the lecture. 
That tho Cliinoso are human and are 
in financed by the same things lliat 
inlluenco us was clearly brought out 
by Dean Porter.
A short summary of the work clone 
byi Chinese students at Peking Uni
versity concluded tho lecture along 
with a discussion of tho inlluonco 
that the Chinese studc-nt is likely to 
Tlire to j ]iaVo on (_ilQ -welfare of China in the 
future.
A number of Chinoae students stu
dying In Pittsburgh woro prosont at 
tho loeturo and Doan Porter chatted 
with tlieso In their nativo tongue, at 
tho closo of tho lecture. A number 
i of friends and Bololt Alumni were 
also present.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Senior Architects Receive 
High Awards From New York
Onco triad, nlwayn used, boouuw 
they iv nr upovlor to nil other.-). 
Genorouti sitetruo colorsnl nit lo 
niul double inosUboth cup find 
frluj'Ai lUj'lo. A ok your denier to
day.
Over 450 tiny knot, skillfully tied 
by htuid, nro In every Duro Bollo 
hair not. That's tho 
answer to why Duro 
13ollo nuts tiro best.
'S ay them by the, 
Vosctu-*
KELLY ELECTED PRESIDENT
OF INDUSTRIES SOPH. CLASS
The Industries Sophoinoro class 
held an eloctlon last QIAAY5 to name a 
now president of tho class following 
the resignation of Dempsey, who has 
hold tho officio sinco the beginning 
of the school year. Tom Kolly of 
the Electrical Equipment Department, 
wag elected over D. K. Mims by a 
majority voto of the class. Kolly 
will hold office for tho remainder 
of the year.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
COMMITTEE IN CHARGE OF
M. M. CARD PARTY ANNOUNCED
The committee In charge of' tho 
Annual Scholarship Boneilt Card Par
ty Of tho Margarot Morrison Carne
glo Collogo which will bo hold Satur
day, April 21, at 2:30, In Kaufmann'n 
dining room, Is as follows:
Miss Francos V. Rayburn, chair
man.
CandyMargaret Wlrth Towo. 
PrizesAnna Cole Dodds, Helen S. 
Ebborls.
AdvertizingPhyllis, MoMarlln. 
TicketsGall S. Fottlco.
ARE YOU SUPER8T1TIOUS?
Evor notice at formal dances tin 
ten dollar dresses the girls wearA 
"V in front, and a "V in back. 
The Rons. Poly.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
FRIDAY, APRIL 20
Annual Exhibition Night, C. I. T..................................7:30-10:30 P. M.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21
M. M. C. C. Alumnae Scholarship Bridge Tea...................................
..........^....Dining Room, Kanfmanns Dept. Store, 2:00-5:00 P. M.
SUNDAY, APRIL 22
Symphony Orchestra Concert .......................................-....................
.....Carnegie Music Hall, Pittsburgh, Pa., 8:15 P. Ml 
SUNDAY, APRIL 29 
RecitalDepartment of Music, C .1. T...................................8:15 P. M.
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. P. D. No. 24, South Akron, 0. 
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Roacl, Norfolk 
Downs, Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G-. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street. 
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street. 
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue. 
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. IConnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street. 
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street. 
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTON'Secretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wal/ ace, 641 Homer St. 
LOS ANGELESSccrctary-Treasurcr, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shcnango St. 
NEW YORKSecretary and Treasurer, E. M. Grotzler, National 
Supply Corporation, 120 Broadway, New York City. 
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue. 
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, COO Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St. 
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg. 
YOUNGSTOWNSeeretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Blvd. 
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
WATCH TEE CLA1$ COLUMN EVERY WEEK
Tho results of tho architectural 
judgment for tho class A projects 
woro rocolvod last week from tho 
Beaux Arts Instituto of Design in 
Now York. Tho problem was: A 
Reviewing Stand for a Largo City, 
representing six weeks work.
Tho Municipal Arts Socloty offered 
two prizes, $50 and $25, both of 
which woro taken by Columbia Uni
versity. Those winning honors for 
Carnoglo wore:
Second modal, P. C. llccd.
First mention, V. C. Stromqulat, 
Jack Franklin, C, 13, Landofeld, Emil 
Kloo, John Kell, Paul MoLoan, Goorgo 
Brink, J. Brockman, M. Grolaser, II. 
C. Krelslo E. O. Andorson, M, D. 
Smith, James Blair, Herb or I. Troon.
Second montlon, Karl Snyder, John 
Frit?, C, Uoolcmun, Uody Pattorson, 
William Harris, William Bano, Joseph 
Dolo.
Two Carnoglo men also submitted 
designs for the Class A and B, Archaologlcal Projoot. The problem was: 
An I till! Ian Palaco Facado of the 
Renaissance Period. Tho judgment 
was:
Second modal, John, 9, Wood.
First mention, P. C. Rood,
The socond modal Is tho .highest 
award given for an archuology.
Ills arm was round my nhouldors 
laid,
Ho pressed my lioad against his 
breast;
1 sighed, but not a word was said,
I foil, hlo heart boat through his 
vost.
I-Ils lingers warm upon, my choolc, 
Stil towards his eyos compelled 
ray faco;
I only foltI could not speak,
Fast fettered In that closo em
brace.
Pained, racked, so tired I fain would 
fleo,
Ills volco my futile* efforts stilled 
"Oh, just a llttlo imtlenco, see!
I rise, I smile, my front tooth's 
filled. Exchange.
CAMPUS WEEK 
!S
COMING!
MAY
24, 25, 26
mttitHtmmiMiMsittmusmMttmiHK
Students Special 
Qfer
Every student Is thinking of 
a new spring hat with that In
dividuality and collegiate ap
pearance, to make Its wearer 
swell with pride.
Wo have the best makes at 
prices that any pocket book can 
afford. One of the largest se
lections In Pittsburgh in all 
shados and s'lzos.
Any studont presenting this 
woeks Issue of tho Tartnn and 
his registration card wo will al
low a ten per cent reduction on 
any spring hat purchased be
fore May 1st, 1923.
C. A. Heimert
Ever Foremost In New Ideas 
3614 Forbos St., Iroquois Block.
In Pittsburgh sinco 1882.
mmJummmmmmmmmimmmmY
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Cnpltnl..............................$200,000.00
Surplun nnd Undivided
Profltn...........................$300,000.00
Doponltu, Over - - - $<1,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT DOXE8 
FOR RENT
ummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmijt
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST. 
iitmmtimmmsmmmmmmummmiti
illlllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllll| 
 Compliments 
I Skibo Inn I
WRIGLOTS
and give your stomach a liftProvides  the bit ol 
sweet** la beneficial 
floral.
Helps to cleanse 
J tlie teeth nnd keep 
\ them healthy.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
