The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1944
Sorority Rushing 
Nets 73 Pledges
Ecstatic Young Dolls 
Begin Lives Of Glory
After ten days of mad rushing by 
the seven sororities of Fine Arts 
and Maggie Murph, rushees and ac
tives were all befuddled and hope
lessly muddled. Who was going 
which way why? That was the $64 
question! As all the bids had to be 
in the following Monday morning 
by ten oclock, it was not long be
fore the actives were showering fer
vent embraces upon their new 
pledges.
The new pledges were as follows: 
Alpha Epsilon Phi 
Beverly Bloch 
. Shirley Doniger 
Harriet Lieber
* Helen Miller (
Harriet Sobel
Continued on page 3
Grapins Exhibit 
Opened At Pitt
One of the finest water color 
shows ever to be exhibited in Pitts
burgh opened September 20th in 
the small secluded seventh floor Ex
hibition Room at the University of 
Pittsburgh. The painter of these 
freely treated, gaily colored water
color miracles is none other than 
Carnegie Techs Camille Grapin, the 
chief of design faculty for the De
partment of Architecture.
Professor Grapin, a native of 
France, received his education at 
Continued on page 3
MMCC Officers 
Senate and AC AC 
Elected To Post
In the elections which were held 
on October 6, Jack Pollock was 
chosen the engineering representa
tive to ACAC. Shirley Swaney is 
the assistant secretary. The arts rep
resentatives to ACAC are Doris 
Ferraez and Pat Werner. Carol 
Ford was elected vice-president of 
the WAA. Jane Frederickson and 
Helen Miller were appointed as 
Senior and Sophomore M. M. C. C. 
Senate representatives. Sophomore 
officers elected were Janet Whitney, 
president; Nancy Smith, vice-presi
dent; Gerry Hunter, secretary; and 
Mary Gannon, treasurer.
The freshmen class officers are 
Mary Rooney, president; Helen 
Zimmerman, vice-president; Kath
erine Glass, secretary; and Nancy 
Craighead, treasurer. Freshmen 
elected to various other positions 
are Elizabeth Moses, senate repre
sentatives, and Margaret Will, 
freshman representative to WAA.
The enthusiastic spirit shown by 
the freshman class of M. M. C. C. 
was certainly commendable, for this 
has been the first real campaign to 
be staged, and the first interest to 
be shown in regards to elections. 
The girls interested in running for 
offices put up clever picture posters, 
which caught the voters eyes, and 
gave the girls a better chance to 
know the candidates.
Color Day Plans 
To Honor Frosh
Margaret Morrison freshmen will 
be honored at the special Color Day 
Assembly on October 17. To sym
bolize their success on passing the 
traditions exam, Maggie Murphs 
will thereafter wear color bands 
which will be pinned on them by 
senate members at the assembly. 
They will sit in the first three or 
four rows while the upperclassmen 
and Fine Arts frosh will occupy the 
rest of the auditorium.
The principal speaker, Dr. Wat
kins, is well-known as a philoso
phical humorist. He understands 
students thoroughly and his talks 
reflect his astuteness in holding the 
interest of students.
Climaxing Color Day, the senate 
will sponsor a tea for the Margaret 
Morrison freshmen. During the 
afternoon the girls will adjourn to 
the Carnegie Union for an afternoon 
of fun.
Sue Scott is in charge of Color 
Day, while Mildred Murrer is re
sponsible for the tea. Adele Bauer 
planned the assembly. >
Miss Tuttle of the Science depart
ment will be the sponsor of the 
freshman class.
Notice
A meeting of all TARTAN busi
ness staff members will be held in 
the TARTAN office, at 7 oclock, 
Friday, October 13.
6Red Cooper Hurt In Fall
Word has been received that Pvt. 
Howard Red Cooper, M. E. 46, 
was seriously injured recently, 
while on maneuvers at Camp Blanding, Fla. He suffered a fractured leg 
and injured spine as a result, but is 
reported to be getting along well.
Our Social Calendar Will Reblossom Soon
The fall social season will get off to a belated start on October 28,
1944, when the Council of Fraternity Presidents, formerly known as Inter
fraternity Council, will sponsor the Halloween Hop in Thistle Hall. As 
usual, the time will be from nine to twelve, and the band Bernie Arm
strong. Two dollars will admit a couple.
Although the dance has only just been approved by A. C. A. C., Paul 
Gibian, director of the Council of Fraternity Presidents, has already an
nounced several details of the dance. In size and decorations, he says, this 
years Halloween Hop cannot compare with the I. F. dances of former 
years, but he hopes, that in spirit and gaiety the coming event will sur
pass anything we have ever known. It may be the last C. I. T. dance for 
our A. S. T.s and for many civilians expecting to leave soon. For the 
Freshmen who have come in this fall the dance will be the first of their
stay. The Council, therefore, hopes 
to receive a very large number of 
couples.
The proceeds, if any, of the dance 
will be used to finance future C.F.P. 
dances. Mr. Gibian stated that the 
Council has made plans to arrange 
several shoe string dances, held in 
the Canteen or in Thistle Hall on 
Friday or Saturday nights, with 
jukebox or victrola instead of a 
band. The admission to such affairs 
would be negligible, and they are 
primarily intended as a after-the
ater or movie party for students liv
ing near the campus.
Schedule For Thistle Pics' *
Scheduling for Senior Thistle Pic
tures will take place in Administra
tion Hall, Tuesday, October 10, from 
10:00 A. M. to 5:00 P. M.
Pictures will be taken by Gimbles Photo Reflex Studio.
Tlie following group pictures are 
to be taken for the 1945 Thistle on 
Sundays, October 15, 22, and 29 in 
the Carnegie Union.
Will all groups please be prompt 
since we are not able to schedule resittings and reappointments.A member of the Beta Sigma Rho 
Fraternity, and the Kiltie Band, this 
little read-headed dynamo who 
drove the well-known maroon con
vertible, will also be remembered 
for his participation in intra-mural 
sports, and for serving as assistant 
manager of last years varsity foot
ball team.
All of Reds friends are urged 
to write him at this address:
Pvt. Howard Cooper
Ward A-5 Station Hospital,
Camp Blanding, Florida.
Halloween Party 
Given By Theta?s
On Friday, October 6, ghosts, 
spooks, and skeletons deserted their 
eerie haunts to help the Kappa Al
pha Theta pledges entertain all 
other sorority pledges in a pre-halloween party. In the weird at
mosphere of the Delt house turned 
haunted, the flickering light of can
dles burning low revealed mis
shapen cornstalks hiding in corners 
and crepe paper dangling from the 
ceiling. Fantastic music filled the 
Continued on page 4
October15
P. M.
1:00Chapel Choir
1:10Citcom
1:20C.W.C.A.
1:30Freshman Orientation
1:40Y.W.C.A.
1:50Radio Club
2:00A.C.A.C.
2:10Tartan
2:20Technical
2:30Thistle
2:40Womens Guild
2:50Womens Glee Club
3:00W.A.A.
3:10Intra-Mural Board
3:20Dorm Council
3:30Dance Club
3:40Alpha Phi Omega
3:50Cwens
4:00Interhonorary Council
4:10Mortar Board
4:20Phi Kappa Phi
4:30Pi Tau Sigma
4:40Pi Delta Epsilon
4:50Sigma Alpha Iota
5:00Tau Beta Pi
Continued on page 4
Notice
All freshmen and others inter
ested in working on the TECHNI
CAL should attend the meeting of 
the staff on Friday, October 13, at 
8:00 oclock in room 232, Indus
tries Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1944
CditoriL AnmcUai/i
A. C. A. C. Awakes!
ACAC has begun its long way, not back to the pre-war normalcy of 
impotency and corruption, but ahead to heights of usefulness, initiative, 
and integrity rarely attained even in the old days of the Student Council. 
Banished should be fraternity politics, virtual rule by a faculty advisor 
a necessary evil until nowand the incompetency and disinterest of the 
members, all of which has in the last semesters added up to a worse than 
useless, disgraceful student government.
The aim is clear, and hardly contestable. But how are the members 
of ACAC going to reach the end of the long road upon which they now 
have embarked, for that matter, will they be able to stay on it for any 
period of time? To state what is to be done is fairly easy; to explain how 
. . . aye, theres the rub. But with our usual editorial licenseor is it 
impudence?we shall attempt to give, if not an answer, then at least an 
approximation of one.
The greatest evil of student governments on this and many other 
campuses is the deplorable, and until now considered inevitable omni
presence of fraternity politics. The members of the Student Council were 
not elected because they were qualified for it, but bcause they were mem
bers of a large fraternity; the failure of the candidates who were beaten 
was due only to their being affiliated with a small frat, not to any per
sonal shortcomings or misdeeds. The result of this miscarriage of democ
racy is obvious. The members, with a few qualifications and less interest 
in their job, usually dont give a darn about the Council once they have 
been elected. Their objective has been accomplished: They have added 
to their own and their fraternitys reputation. We do not blame them for 
itthey would be fools not to profit by the circumstancesbut we repeat 
that these circumstances must be remedied.
We believe that there is a way by which this can be done. First of 
all, a two, or if necessary, a three party system should be established on 
the campus, and each party should not have more than one candidate for 
any major office. As the parties would be of approximately equal nu
merical strengthif this does not occur automatically, regulations to 
that purpose should be enactedno candidate could coast into office by 
virtue of his affiliation alone. Furthermore, as an editorial safeguard 
against the election of nonentities, each candidate should be forced to 
publish a platform in the pages of the Tartan or by some other means, 
stating his personal qualifications for the aspired office, and his plans 
should he be elected. We are quite aware of the fact that rarely, if ever, a 
platform is actually carried out after election, but its contents and phras
ing should be indicative of the candidates worth.
Should by this, or by any other method fraternity politics be barred, 
and capable members elected, most of the Councils other evils would al
most automatically be eliminated. The members ability and interest 
would insure initiative and usefulness. The faculty advisor would no 
longer have to do everything himself, and could revert to his intended 
and correct position, that of a mentor, not a leader.
We know that all this will not be accomplished within the next few 
weeks, but we are convinced that it can be done soon if the old and new 
members of ACAC learn to view their position not as a mere honor, but 
as an obligation to their school.
E. A. L.
Apologies .  
It has been made clear with a rather sharp suddenness that we have, 
once again, been misinterpreted. Particular reference is made to a passage 
in last weeks Tartan concerning a Miss Iris Hilton. The general impres
sion about campus seems to be that the quotation was penned with an 
eye to mortification and derision. This is not sothe very fact that it was 
printed should have been proof enough of that. We had thought that the 
very tenor of the article was conducive to a proper evaluation of all state
ments therein, and, on that assumption, went ahead. We are very sorry 
'ihat it has not been received in the tongue-in-cheek manner in which it 
was written, and in which, as a matter of fact, the entire article was writ
ten. In the future, we shall endeavor to be less subtle, and will try to write 
in a more conventional style.
We do, therefore, here apologize to Miss Iris Hilton for any disap
probation she may have felt, assure her it was never intended, and apol
ogize to the rest of the campus for our ambiguous jacon de parler.
J. V.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ftaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Sehenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *00 PHONE SCHENLEY 4551
MPMMNTID POM NATIONAL ADVBHTI.INO BV After OfflCC HOUrS Call
Nations! Adreilising Service, Inc. Editor-In-Chief .............................EM. 9424CoUe?t Pmkliibtn Representative
420 TheCarn avk. new gritV n.y. Business Manager.....................................EM. 9424Cmctae  iotm  Lot miiu  Sab fiakiko
Entered u seeend-elssa matter In the PitUbargb Peat Ofllee under the Aet of March 8, 187.PlklliM weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Sabseriptlon Price S1.10 par year.
Editors -in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Ivan Faigen
Managing Editor ............................................................................................... Clara Herron
One of the Profs
Dr. Watkins is one of those few 
men who have acquired a certain 
ambition in childhood, grown up 
with it, and had the satisfaction of 
seeing it fulfilled. Since grade school 
days, he has had the desire to teach 
and a love for science, so (you 
guessed it) he decided to combine 
the two. Towards this end, he ob
tained his B. A. from Lafayette, his 
Master of Science from Vanderbilt, 
and his doctorate from Johns Hop
kins. There, simply but completely, 
is his school history. His college 
career was pretty even and smooth. 
Teachers of chemistry can usually 
top students laboratory catastro
phes by one of their own, now I 
remember when I put in the sul
furic when I should have used the 
nitric stories. But not Dr. Watkins. 
Through personal experience in the 
lab, I know that such persons must 
be above the ordinary and I there
fore exclaimed that he must have 
taken great pains in performing his 
experiments. To which he replied, 
eyes twinkling, Perhaps, but theres 
also the possibility that I did noth
ing at all.
His career in teaching began with 
a position in a prep school in his 
hometownMorristown, Tenn. Lat
er, he obtained his doctorate and se
cured the post as teacher of chem
istry here in Margaret Morrison in 
1915. An interval of dangerous work 
with poison gas in the war years 
followed, after which Dr. Watkins 
returned to Margaret Morrison, be
coming head of the school upon the 
retirement of Miss Breed. However, 
he didnt entirely give up teaching, 
for he conducts the freshman 
chemistry class even today. Strange
ly (?) enough, he has found that 
the lectures which bring in perfect 
attendance from the girls are the 
ones dealing with alcohol and its 
derivatives.
For relaxation, Dr. Watkins has a 
hobby which developed through 
sheer boredom. Several years ago, 
it was his misfortune to be aboard 
a very slow ship off the South 
American coast. The cargo was com
posed of ivory nuts (whose seeds 
have ivory like surfaces) which are 
used in the making of ornaments. 
Having very little to do, he began 
carving a figure on the seed of the 
ivory nut. The time it took to 
make this trip Dr. Watkins counts 
in cuts on the hand rather than in 
hours. Arriving back home, he pur
sued the interest he had acquired 
in carvingeven to the extent of 
talking things over with Mr. Ellis 
of the Sculpture department with 
the result that he took several even
ing courses in sculpturing. His pro
gress was so good that some of his 
work was accepted for the Associat
ed Artists exhibition several times. 
When one enters his office today, 
one can see several samples of his 
work. In particular, there is a good 
head of Mr. Alemany, teacher of 
languages. Most of his figures, 
though, are made from imagination 
instead of models.
Although sculpturing is closest to 
his heart, his love of the arts passes 
into literature and music where he 
leans toward English history in the
. . . Dr. Watkins
former and orchestral music in the 
latter.
1940 marked Dr. Watkins twentyfifth anniversary here at Margaret 
Morrison. The respect and admira
tion in which he is held was shown
by a banquet given in his honor at 
which the alumni of Margaret Mor
rison presented him with a silver 
set, and the faculty, a book of repro
ductions of such masters as Rodin 
and Michelangelo.
A word about womenDr. Wat
kins, who has seen many of them 
come and go, thinks that they 
change very little. So boys, the case 
is hopeless.
Dirt Colymn . . .
Big Saturday Nite: Jack Pollock 
and Sue Crobaugh  Enuff said! 
Has anyone noticed that gleam in 
Marcia Wachters eye this past 
week? Could it be the reflection of 
her Lt. Mariene? . . . What has 
happened to that Kelly-Ritter ro
mance of last year? Is the flame low 
or has it been extinguished? . . . 
FLASH: Attention, Girls  D. U. 
Dick Andree is back on campus  
Whoopey  Line forms to the right, 
gals.
Seen on Campus: Pat Walker with 
her MAN! You lucky girl, Pat . . . 
Glad to see someone has donated 
the blinds for Birch Hall  Tough 
luck boys . . . Merle WolfX Delt 
looking mighty sharp in his navy 
greens . . . Ollie Sarosdy bidding 
his fond farewells in his new en
signs garb to Peggy Cole mostly 
. . .Jan Cannon, a Drama transfer, 
seems to have made quite a hit with 
another Freshman, Bill Ross. Umm! 
. . . Jessie Baker, a cute little 
Freshie, is sporting a brand new 
pair of Bombardier Wings. Bombs 
Away! . . . Where was Warren 
Snow the nite of Friday, October 6? 
. . . Paul Castner has given his D. 
U. pin to Helen Williams . . . Lazzery had his senior Ducking at the 
S. A. E. house the other nite . . . 
Why doesnt Andy Groomes keep 
her dates straight? She can em
barrass lots of people that way . . . 
Hear the S. A. E.s are getting up 
two football teams. Afraid theyll 
need about two more along with a 
few bazookas.
Ladies and gentlemen (???) Ive 
had a big time writing this little 
stuffbut its now all over. Hope 
CENSORED does a better job.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Bill Libby, Class 41f 
Returns As Teacher 
To P. and D. Dept.
Returning to Carnegie Tech as a 
member of the Painting and De
sign faculty is a former student, 
Bill Libby, class of 41. As a stu
dent he was a repeated winner of 
the Founders Scholarship and an 
honor student for four years. Al
though Mr. Libby graduated in 
teaching, his abilities are not limit
ed to this field, for they include 
skill in both painting and litho
graphy. Some of these paintings 
and lithographs have been exhibit
ed in the Associated Artists Shows. 
After his graduation and previous 
to his return to Tech, Mr. Libby 
served in the armed forces as Sec
ond Lieutenant in the Engineers. In 
September, 1943, after over two 
years in the army, Lieutenant Lib
by received a medical discharge 
and returned again to civilian life. 
Since then he has been doing free 
lance design work. Beginning this 
fall, he is instructing freshmen Pic
torial and Decorative Design and 
two night classes, one in design, the 
other in drawing.
Camille Grapin
Continued from page 1 
the Ecole Nationale Suprieure des 
Beaux-Arts de Paris after which he 
was appointed architecte des Bti
ments Civils et des Palais Nationus 
in 1921. He was then employed in 
various offices in Milan, Italy and 
Paris. In 1823 Professor Grapin be
came a professor in Architecture at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
In this particular exhibition at 
the University of Pittsburgh Profes
sor Grapin has chose to exhibit sub
jects and moods familiar to the na
tive Pittsburgher as well as those 
of New Mexico, Arizona, and the 
Deep South of the United States. 
The freshness of water color is dem
onstrated to its fullest with deli
cately free selection and execution 
of color.
Photo 
Stationery
$2.95 Completew.
Photo - Stationery is the newest, most exciting means of correspondence available.
Its simple to order. Merely enclose your favorite photo, snapshot, part of snapshot or any picture . . . size does not matter. Mail picture with completely filled-in order blank and deposit or payment in full. Allow ten days for delivery.HERES WHAT YOU GET 50 beautifully embossed and panelled sheets of fine quality stationery!Fifty fine quality envelopes!20 plain second sheets for those extralong letters!And 50 toned photographs specially sized to fit attractive panel of your stationery.
All for the amazingly low price of $2.95 Complete
ORDER BLANKBEA MORRIS410 Flannery BuildingPittsburgh 13, Pa.
( ) One dollar (1.00) deposit. I will pay postman balance C.O.D. plus postal charges.( ) Payment in full (2.95) Photo Stationery is to be sent to me postage prepaid.
Name ...........................................................................
Address ......................................................................
City ..............................................................................
DONT FORGET TO ENCLOSE PHOTO OR SNAPSHOT
Lindeman To Lecture 
On Post-War World
Eduard Lindeman of the New 
York School of Social Work associat
ed with Cleveland University will 
deliver the first post-war world or
der lecture at the Shadyside Com
munity Forum, Monday evening at 
eight oclock, at the First Unitarian 
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood 
Avenues. Prof. Lindeman will dis
cuss Minimum Peace Essentials, and 
his address will be followed by an 
open forum. His lecture will be the 
first of a series of six which will 
present on later dates, Mrs. Martha 
Sharp, Senator Harold Burton, Nor
man Thomas, Clarence Streit and 
President Philip C. Nash. Among 
the sponsors of the Forum is the 
Jefferson Club, student group at the 
First Unitarian Church. The club 
meets every Sunday night at seven 
oclock; this Sunday, Rev. Irving R. 
Murray, minister of the church, will 
be the speaker. Tech men and wom
en will be welcome at all sessions of 
both the Forum and the Jefferson 
Club.
Prof. Lindeman is active in num
erous professional, social, and edu
cational associations, including the 
Progressive Education Association, 
the American Civil Liberties Union, 
the Federal Council of Churches, 
the Good Neighbor Committee and 
others. He began his career as ed
itor of the Gleaner, a Detroit pub
lication, then went into social work 
in Lansing, Michigan, in 1912. In 
1915 he became a teacher and ex
tension worker at Michigan Agri
cultural College, and has since fol
lowed his academic calling at the 
North Carolina College for Women, 
at Columbia University, and as vis
iting lecturer at colleges through
out the country. His published 
works began with a volume of es
says and verse in 1912, College Char
acters, continued with a number of 
sociological studies down to the lat
est, Leisure: A National Issue, pub
lished in 1939. He has served on a 
number of Federal commissions.
Informal Dancing
Starts
Saturday, Oct. 7th
and
Every Saturday Thereafter
85c per person plus tax
HOTEL SGHENLEY
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Sorority Pledges . . .
Continued from page 1 
Chi Omega
Ada Virginia Bucy 
Dorothy Coar 
Audrey Colledge 
Madalene Cook 
Elizabeth Gehrs 
Esther HaUshalter 
Mary D. Hunsaker 
Helen Kapetan 
Anna Mary Longridge 
Mary Louise McCall 
Mary Camilla McCullough 
Mary Lou Mooney 
Marie Raymal 
Valentine Rochez 
Marjorie Whitesell 
Delta Delta Delta
Fay Carpenter >
Joy Rae Clark 
Carol Hensen 
Georgette Pal jug 
Catherine Redding 
Delta Gamma
Edna Crux t
Delores De Fiore 
Carolyn Dill 
Lucille Emmel 
Mary Madelyn Gannon 
Nancy Garber 
Jean Price 
Ruth Rauhaus 
Ardyth Schaffer 
Irene Surenda 
Mina Widdersheim 
Charlotte Young 
Gamma Gamma Gamma 
Joan Baily 
Lois Brunn 
Dorothy Danko 
Jean Goss '
Ann Graham ,
Joan Sedlar 
Helen Wasserman 
Kappa Alpha Theta 
Jean Boltey 
Jane Culp 
Margaret Harris 
Mary Jane Horridge 
Patricia Jones 
Janet Murray *
Phyllis Petrikin 
Marjorie Reno
Students Health Plans 
Release of Cold Pills
The Department of Student 
Health announces that cold pre
ventive tablets are now available 
at the office, 202 Gymnasium, at the 
same price as in former years: fifty 
cents for twenty.
The purpose of this capsule is to 
develop an immunization against 
certain isolated respiratory germs 
in order to prevent colds entirely, 
or, at least, to decrease their sever
ity and duration.
The effect is more satisfactory if 
the process of immunization is start
ed early in the fall, before the cold 
season arrives.
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Marjorie Bittner 
Jo Anne Clark 
Elizabeth Floyd 
Anne Frink 
Margaret Graham 
Janet Hartman 
Anne Hochswender 
Geraldine Henter 
Mary Elizabeth Kane 
Mary Keefer 
Jean Lisle
Catherine McKenna ,
Frederica Murray 
Erla Jane Ramsey 
Lucy Seibert /
Nancy Smith 
Mary Sue Thompson 
Sarah Thompson 
Elizabeth Twitchell 
Helen Van Dyke 
Lucille West
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIMBKR FKDKRAL DKPO0IT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
PAY-AS-YOU-GO
-FORA Simplified Checking Account
Open the Account As Any Bank Account is Opened.
Buy a Book of 20 Checks for $1.00Five Cents Per 
Check.
When You Make a Deposit, Deduct the Deposit Cost of 
5c for Each Deposit Item.
No Later Additional Cost to You.
Pay Your Bills by Check.
THE FORBES NATIONAL BANK
of Pittsburgh
Fifth and Oakland 
Gulf Building, Seventh and Grant
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

4TH. CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1944 tThe Plaid
Evening Students 
Urged To Attend 
Years First Part
Now that the Evening Student 
Election Party is so near, it might 
be a good idea to elaborate on some 
of the anticipated highlights of the 
party. But first, the important thing 
to remember is that it is the duty of 
each and every evening student to 
be present at the Election Party. 
Last years election deviated from 
Evening Schools old established 
procedure of electing officers, due to 
a minimum student body and the 
small number of students eligible to 
become officers. Student Council 
President, Mr. Chester Biscup, states 
that it might be necessary again this 
year to choose officers directly from 
the student body.
Any evening student who has re
ceived an Insignia Award, attends 
classes three hours a week, and has 
passing grades is eligible to hold of
fice. It is essential for each student 
to bring his registration card to ob
tain a ballot.
The Social Committee has a fine 
entertainment program set for the 
party. There is to be dancing to the 
latest recordings. If any of you have 
a particular record you love to 
dance to, bring it along and the So
cial Committee will be only too 
glad to play it. The Committee has 
a clever magician on the program 
to take care of the novelty act. We 
can be sure of some fine accordian 
solos from Tom Harkenrider, for
merly of Sammy Kayes orchestra.
The Committee plans to serve 
sandwiches, coffee, and cookies.
As a last reminder, the party will 
be held in the Margaret Morrison 
Recreation Hall, Saturday, October
14, from 9:00 to 1:00 P. M.
Get the PLAID by Mail
Council is carrying out its policy 
of mailing the Plaid each week to 
interested students for the fee of 
$1.10 per year. The general registra
tion fee just covers the cost of 
printing the paper and its distribu
tion in school.
Anyone desiring this service is 
asked to write to Student Council, 
Box 362, Carnegie Tech, enclosing 
his name and address and $1.10 to 
cover the cost for one year.
Copies of the Plaid will be placed 
in the newspaper boxes on the first 
floor of each building on the cam
pus. If at any time the supply in 
these boxes becomes depleted, you 
may obtain your copy at the Even
ing School Registrars office at 
Room 255-C on the second floor of 
Industries Hall.
The Plaid '
Editor
) Joseph M. Rymar
r News EditorI Mary de MariaAssociate Editors Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car* negie Institute of Technology. All views o opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Florence Chorba Virginia Ehni Thelma Kitchen Irene Koerner 
S. W. Marclnizyn
Elaine Martin 
Frank Mihelich Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan 
Dorothy Shields 
Lois Schultz
Wonder if Ed Williams wanted 
that 6:30 class so he could make all 
the shows? Olive Baumgardner car
ries not one, not two, but three hat 
pins. Hmm  wonder why. Ches 
Biscups presence must be respon
sible for Bill Jacobos silence? in 
Psychology class; otherwise he 
wouldnt dareMr. Grapin is smil
ing again this year due to the great
er quaintities of Cherchez la 
femme in his classeswhat dash
ing gent quite nonchalantly strolled 
into Oh! Oh! a bevy of beauties in 
Mrs. Skinners 6:30 to 8:30 Voice 
and Speech class Tuesday. We hear 
he got cold feet and enrolled in the 
later class. (Whatsa matter Lassies, 
losing your grip?)  Correction 
Please  Is our face red! In last 
weeks issue, John Hundtermark 
was rated by us a Private; but upon 
investigation, we find that he is a 
Say-lor (Seaman First Class if 
you please)Miss Hays Secretar
ial Class is all-out for the com
ing Election Party which is news in 
any mans language. And what a 
class!We hear there are quite a 
few new males tampering around in 
Chem and Physics labs. Wonder if 
theyve tried mixing nitric and sul
phuric acids with water. (Wonder 
what would happen! Oh brother!)  
The old swimming hole is a mighty 
popular spot anymore. Under Mr. 
Moses expert guidance we are an
ticipating an Esther Williams of our 
own. Just wait till our Swimming 
Party comes up and well prove it 
to all you doubtful drips.
Meet Your New 
President of Council
Chester J. Biscup is the new Pres
ident of the 1944-1945 Evening Stu
dent Council. We feel confident that 
he will be a very capable person to 
fill this position as he is well ac
quainted with Council, having serv
ed as a Council member from 1932 
to 1936 and as Vice-President last 
year. Ches is a past president of 
Sigma Delta Phi and Nu Sigma Al
pha fraternities and a member of 
Pi Delta Epsilon, journalistic honor
ary society. He is quite an active 
worker on the Campus as evidenced 
by the nine Insignia Awards he has 
received.
Aside from all his school activi
ties, he is Laboratory Engineer, 
Railway Laboratory Central Engi
neering Laboratories and Standards 
of Westinghouse, East Pittsburgh 
plant.
Our new President is blonde and 
blue-eyed, but, girls, dont get ex
cited, he is a devoted husband and 
father, although as he has confessed, 
he is allergic to blondes. *
Plaid 'li/osJz&iA.
Evening Students desiring to 
serve on the Plaid Staff should re
port after classes on Friday even
ings to the second floor of Industries 
Hall, Room 232.
Theta Pledge Party ...
Continued from page 1 
dim rooms where here and there 
lurked the shadowy forms of black 
cats and blacker witches. Led by 
these spooks, the wary guests de
scended through cobwebs and 
strange terrors into the lower re
gions. There they were held spell
bound by a thrilling, chilling, in
describable melodrama starring the 
Theta pledges. After smelling salts 
were distributed to the faintheart
ed, the actresses tripped through 
the audience and Miss Witchface 
of 1944 was selected. Having un
dergone these grim ordeals, the 
guests relaxed by bobbing for ap
ples, gulping traditional cider, nib
bling dunked or undunked dough
nuts, and chatting with ghosts and
Organization of New 
HomeEc Club Today
On Tuesday, October 10th, at 4:00 
P. M., a meeting will be held at 
Recreational Hall in Margaret Mor
rison for all students interested in 
Home Economics, Foods, or Cloth
ing. The purpose of this meeting is 
to organize a Home Economics Club 
which will be a part of the home 
economics clubs all over the United 
States.' Miss Marie Green, State 
College Club Advisor, will be pres
ent to speak at the meeting and to 
help with the plans for organization. 
This is an important meeting since 
club officers and a faculty advisor 
will be nominated.
Thistle Pictures 0  
Continued from page 1
October 22
1:00 Tau Sigma Delta
1:00 Theta Tau
1:20 Eta Kappa Nu
1:30 Beta Theta Pi Officers
1:40 Beta Theta Pi Actives
1:50 Beta Theta Pi Pledges
2:00 Council of Fraternity Presidents2:10 Beta Sigma Rho Officers
2:20 Beta Sigma Rho Actives
2:30 Beta Sigma Rho Pledges
2:40 Delta Tau Delta Officers
2:50 Delta Tau Delta Actives
3:00 Delta Tau Delta Pledges
3:10 Delta Upsilon Officers
3:20 Delta Upsilon Actives
3:30 Sigma Alpha Epsilon Officers
3:40 Sigma Alpha Epsilon Actives
3:50 Sigma Alpha Epsilon Pledges
4:00 Tau Delta Phi Officers *
4:10 Tau Delta Phi Actives
4:20 Tau Delta Phi Pledges
4:30 Theta Xi Officers
4:40 Theta Xi Actives
4:50 Theta Xi Pledges
5:00 Kappa Sigma
5:10 Phi Kappa
5:20 Sigma Nu
5:30 Pi Kappa Alpha
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
witches. But at the stroke of 12, that 
mystic hour of midnight, the inhab
itants of the other world drifted 
quietly back to their graveyards 
and the guests scattered, each to 
their homes and their own horrid 
nightmares.
Notice
All new freshmen, veteran fresh
men, and any others interested in 
doing worthwhile work on the 
TARTAN, are requested to report 
to the Publications Office, Room 
232, Industries Hall at 7 :30, Friday, 
October 13.
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
SHADYSIDE
COMMUNITY
FORUM
<3 e
POST-WAR 
WORLD 
ORDER
October 16 Dr. Eduard C. LindemanN. Y. School of Social Science November 15 Mrs. Martha Sharp Unitarian Service Committee January 17 Hon. Harold H. Burton U. S. Senator, Ohio February 21 Mr. Clarence Streit Director, Federal Union, Inc. March 21 Mr. Norman Thomas Socialist Leader April 18 Dr. Philip C. Nash Pres., University of Toledo
STUDENT TICKET: $1.20
FACULTY TICKET: $3.00
(Tax Incl.)
Net Proceeds to Community 
Fund
FIRST 
UNITARIAN 
CHURCH
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves., E. E.Via 75 Car MA. 5423Sunday Service11 a. m. Student Group7 p. m. ,
