Fonda and Hayden speak here
CMU athletes get no 'special' financial aid
by Mitchell Salmon
The rumor that athletes are getting 
scholarship money to attend CMU is false. 
The claim that athletes receive more finan
cial aid to create a sort of financial aid 
funded athletic scholarship is also false.
CMU is a member of the National Col
legiate Athletic Associations (NCAA) 
Division III. One of the Division 
rules states that no athletic 
scholarships may be given to stu
dents attending a Division III school.
Five years ago, before coach Klausing 
and President Cyert came to CMU, the 
University did have an athletic scholar
ship program, but it ended that year.
Mr. Walter Cathie, Director of Finan
cial Aid was interviewed for over 4 hours. 
He showed the PAC Financial Aid State
ment to the TARTAN.
Athletes are treated on the same level 
as non-athletes at CMU. Ninety percent off 
the time, the financial aid officfc does not 
know whether the student in question is 
an athlete or not, stated Cathie. There 
is no preference to athletes or minority
groups at CMU. We have a reputation to 
uphold, was the following statement. 
CMU gives out its money for two reasons; 
need and grades. If a students family can 
only contribute $1000 to their son/daugh
ters education, CMU tries to give as much 
help as possible. Grades also make a differ
ence in financial aid. A student may merit 
up to $2300 maximum in aid if they have 
a 4.0 QPA and have the need for it. This 
chart breaks down the QPA-financial aid 
ratio:
of 2300 dollars received 
for grades
55%
Average.
2.5
2.5-2.74
2.75-2.99 
3.0-3.24 
3.25-3.49
3.5-3.74
3.75-?
The main reason for financial aid con
troversy stems not from CMU, but from 
grant sources, such as the Gulf Oil Scholar
ship, the Westinghouse scholarship, the 
Cleveland Scholarship, etc. At an average 
financial aid award of approximately 
$4800 per student, CMU has more per 
student aid, money' allocated than any 
Mother school in the country. At CMU there 
is more money to be had, not more money 
given away. There is no separation of 
athletes from non-athletes when aid awards 
are determined.
Dr. William Elliot, Director of Ad
missions also pointed out that students 
are accepted to the university before 
their financial aid packaged is deter
mined.
Mr. James Banner, Director of Ath
letics and Physical Education empha
tically stated that no athletic scholar
ships were being given. If they were, 
CMU would be put on probation and 
made ineligible for competition. The 
physical education department might like 
more support; but so far, a combination of 
intelligent scouting and the lure of a good 
education we have amassed quite a respect
able athletic program. As evidence of the
fact, CMU football is ranked third in Divi
sion III.
Financial aid involves personal loans, 
school related loans: the BEOG, SEOG, 
and innumberable outside sources. And all 
of these are awarded according to financial 
need and scholastic achievement, not 
athletic ability.
Fifty pledge
sororities
by Debbie Nir
Fifty women accepted bids to join one 
of CMUs five sororities during this years 
fall Rush, which took place September 9- 
30.
Kappa Kappa Gamma, founded at 
Monmouth College in 1870, has 32 
members and 8 new pledges. Five of the 
pledges are sophomores and the rest are 
freshmen. According to Heidi Riedl, pres
ident of the CMU chapter, Kappa Kappa 
Gamma takes mostly sophomores. Along 
with Heidi, other current officers are 
continued on |
October 9,1979
Volume 80, Number 5
Carnegie-MelIon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden spoke in 
the Skibo Ballroom yesterday afternoon. 
Fonda and her husband were the featured 
speakers at the sold-out Activities Board 
(AB) lecture. The. Fonda-Hayden talk, 
co-sponsored by AB and the California 
Campaign for Economic Democracy 
(CED), was part of a national tour.
Following the Fonda-Hayden lecture, 
Sandra Keifer and Dr. Lin Draper, nuclear 
engineers, presented a program titled 
Energy Needs in the 1980s. The pro
gram was sponsored by CMU Campus Pro
gram Planning and the Edison Electric In
stitute.
According to CED National Tour Coor
dinator, Stephen Rivers, The visit to 
Pittsburgh is part of a 50-city national 
tour....Fonda and Hayden will be speaking 
on the key economic and energy issues 
facing this country in the 1980s, and 
challenging all the presidential candiSAE's volcano, after the explosion
SAE fined for explosion
by Pete Levin
On Saturday, September 29, an explosion 
at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) house 
caused $2700 worth of damage.
The explosion, which occured during 
SAEs annual Dantes Inferno rush 
party, was intended to simulate an erup
tion of the volcano built around the 
door of the house. Three previous erup
tions produced the desired result of smoke 
and flame.
Exactly what happened within the 
volcano is unknown. We know that SAE 
does not buy manufactured explosives 
for the volcano, stated Earle Swank, 
^ Dean of Student Affairs, but instead they
mix supposedly safe chemicals in a coffee 
can type device. Obviously some modc ification was made this year, but we dont
-> know what.>The greatest damage was sustained by
o the windows of the SAE house. All of
a the large first floor, and several windows
on other floors were shattered by the 
explosion. Only minor injuries were reported by persons who were cut by flying 
glass as a result of the explosion.
SAE is being held responsible for dam
ages, and will have to reimburse Housing 
$2700 for the broken windows. In add
ition, the fraternity -will have to pay a 
fine not to exceed $1000. The fine is 
a disciplinary action imposed by the 
University, not the City of Pittsburgh.
Further action taken against the house 
as a result of the incident includes social 
probation for the remainder of the academ
ic year. Terms of the probation state 
that SAE may have only two more parties 
this semester, and two next semester. 
The individual responsible for lighting the 
fuse was also disciplined. Any of these 
decisions may be appealed to the Disci
plinary Board.
Another result of the explosion is a 
memo issued by Swank to all students and 
organizations explaining a new regulation 
governing the use of incendiary explo
sives. Such activity will be closely mon
itored-in the future so as to protect stu
dents from potentially harmful situations.
The lectures did not take place until af
ter the TARTAN went to press. Look for Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden 
expanded coverage in next weeks issue.
dates next year to substantively address 
these issues within the context of eco
nomic democracy.
While in Pittsburgh, Fonda and Hayden 
made stops at the downtown YMCA, St. 
Marys Senior Citizen Center and the 
Butler Community College in addition to 
CMU.
Hayden currently chairs the state of 
Californias SolarCal Council, which advises 
the Governor on solar energy policy. 
Fonda serves as a member of the steering 
committee of the California CED.
Keifer is a self-employed energy consul
tant who specializes in nuclear power is
sues. Draper is Technical Assistant to the 
chairman of the board of Gulf States Util
ities Company.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Marching on . . .
"Ladies and Gentlemen, presenting the Kiltie Marching 
Band," was a sentence not uttered on this campus for ten 
years. Then in the spring of 1978, a group of students and 
Dean Swank reformed the once nationally known and ac
claimed Kiltie band.
Swank then hired Warren Mercer, CMU alumnus and 
Director of the North Hills High School band, to direct the 
Kiltie band. And so the question arose: With such a fine 
music department, why did someone have to be brought in 
from outside the university, and why do instruments have 
to be borrowed from North Hills?
The band somehow survived its first year, and member
ship has increased this year, but it still has no home. Band 
members, only three of whom are music majors, are kept on 
their toes, as each practice is likely to be in a different 
place. Some indoor practices are held in the Skibo ballroom 
but most are in Thistle Hall, where the notes from a song 
can still be heard echoing an hour after the band has 
stopped playing.
Students who have evening classes in Baker or Doherty 
do not have to be told where the band holds outdoor prac
tice. After practicing at Central Catholic, on the cut, on the 
Fine Arts lawn, and on the mall, a small step has finally 
been made in that the mall is now lined for use each week. 
But the mall is still a very far cry irom a full size football 
field. Now, ask any Donner resident when the band is 
allowed to use the football field for practice. Two hours 
on Saturday morning before a home game is hardly suf
ficient time to prepare a pre-game and half-time show.
Although the football and soccer teams have as much 
right to practice as the band, not allowing the band to 
play while on the field during the team's practice time be
cause the noise would 'disrupt their practice  is more than 
ridiculous. As Mercer summed up the answer to the ob
vious question, They've decided that they want a band, 
but haven't come to grips with the fact that we need a place 
to practice.
In his View from the Top on Athletics at CMU (see op
posite page), president Cyert said that the university wants 
"to provide an environment in which the student has maxi
mum opportunity for self-development.  Certainly the 
Kiltie band is an opportunity for self-development, but 
since it is not an athletic program, it receives last priority in 
funding and use of common facilities.
The band did receive money from Student Senate both 
last year and this year. Music, uniforms, and instruments, 
however, are all expensive, and due to their age, must be 
replaced. The Pittsburgh Men's Clan has organized a Band 
night at the circus to help raise the thousands of dollars 
necessary to replace the present tattered, mismatched uni
forms, because as alumni, they see and have experienced 
the advantages of the Kiltie band.
The Kiltie band need not apologize to the music depart
ment if they do not think it is good enough. " It does not 
have to be ashamed that it provides more spirit at one 
football game than all of the fans at three games. It does 
need the support of everyone at Carnegie-Mellon University.
Doug Kirsop 
News Editor
Thinking about rush
Now that the smoke has settled from the SAE erup
tion, " perhaps it is time to take a look at the non<hemical 
causes of this potentially fatal incident. Although we feel 
that SAEs punishment was justified in light of the obvious 
negligence, we do not feel that the fraternity should suffer 
unduly for that which it alone is not responsible.
We are referring to freshman rush. Intense competition 
among fraternities for new members drives the Greeks to 
lengths far beyond their stated raison d etre of brotherhood; 
Dantes Inferno is only an example of the Greek systems 
unwillingness to present itself as a group of human beings 
joined for mutual benefit. Rather, the system seems to 
foster the jaded view that many non-Greeks share of them 
as hedonistic juveniles. Fraternities can probably gain need
ed new support from the student body as well as prevent 
future "meltdowns " by toning down their rush events and 
by generally presenting their groups as the sums of mature 
individuals.
The TARTAN Editorial Board
Peddling Porn
Editor:
In the interest of the campus 
community we would like to pro
test the peddling of pornography 
at CMU this year. Movies such as 
Misty Beethoven and The Cheer
leaders are simply that; cheap 
pornography.
God created sex as a part of 
the process of achieving spiritual, 
emotional and physical union be
tween a man and a woman who 
are committed to each other, not 
as something to be used to exploit 
and degrade men and women be
fore the eyes of others. The 
love that these movies purvey 
is is a degenerate, selfish desire to 
please ones self at the expense of
another persons spirit, taking no 
thought of tjie other. We suggest 
that the student organizations in 
charge of the films on Friday and 
Saturday nights return to G and 
PG rated movies and that the 
campus community boycott any 
further exploitative films.
Editors note: This letter was
signed by 43 CMU students.
Paying for a Privilege 
Editor:
How can Jane Fonda and Tom 
Hayden have the unmitigated gall 
to charge admission for their Oc
tober 8 lecture?!? Not only do we 
have to listen to their anti-nuclear 
propaganda, but we also have to 
pay for the privilege? (Note: 
i am not arguing against their
position or their right to speak, 
only their right to be paid for it.)
Surely, between her film in
come and his-government salary, 
the two of them are solvent 
enough to pay their own travel 
expenses, lodgings, etc. Had the 
lecture been free I would have 
attended, just to hear what the 
other side had to say, but I 
refuse to donate my money to 
a cause which I dont support. 
(If I were paranoid, I would as
sume that that was the reason 
for the admission charge; to keep 
the opposition away from the 
lecture.)
If Ms. Fonda and Mr. Hayden 
were truly committed to the antinuclear movement, they would beTARTAN
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Sports Editor:
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
Production Manager.
Doug Kirsop 
Lynn Epstein 
Alan Spero 
Perry Colosimo
Jean Pellegrini 
Neil Adler 
Brian Byrnes 
Karen Stevens 
Michael Brzustowicz
Associate Editor: Mory Brenner 
Magazine Editor: Susan Borg 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Tom Megalis
News: Beth Arden, Asst. Editor; Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Tim Bardwell, Jim Bost, Dave Boyce, Sue Brillamn, Jeanette. 
Bryan, Anne Cesnick, Stan Cieslak. Linda Dickerson, Carol Dietrich, Ed Frankenbery, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, 
Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Donald Mawson, Kwasi Mensah Deb Morgas, Debbie Nir, Elliot 
Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Dena Santoro, Sheryl Sazim, Scott Schaffer, Andy Sicree, Molly Silver, Ben Smith, 
David Seet, Vernon Valentine, Lisa Vaughan, Jane Weisbacher, Sue Wilkin, Elise Yoder, Eddy Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy, Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl 
Sazima, Stu Seidman
Entertainment : Kate Bertrand, theater editor; Ed Slosky, events editor; Scott Alburger, Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Joan 
Livitski, Paul Mendler, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Ted Smits.
Sports: Dave Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Avon, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Bernie Ivanshultz, 
Frank Pugliano, Dave Radack, Scott Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production. Su/anne Chan, Ken Kulak, George Lyons, Janet Martin, Gretchen Miller,Smita Pai, Nancy Richman, Anne
Rogers, Ken Salem, Lynn Sokol, f-d Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffy, Andy Fdelman, Jenny Ladd, Marcy Lubitz, Michael Melnick, Skip Stong, 
Art -Tom Hart, assistant director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, C.C. Otto.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited Pittsburgh, PA 15206.

---------------------------------------------------

View from the top
Athletes offer opportunity for self-development
opinions
Richard M. Cyert, President, 
discusses Athletics at Carnegie 
Mellon University in this View 
from th Top .
My policy for athletics at 
Carnegie Mellon University has 
been and will remain one in which 
all athletes are treated as other 
students with respect to financial 
aid, recruitment, and academic 
requirements. This policy is in 
keeping with the twin objectives 
of Carnegie Mellon University to 
educate its students and to 
develop and disseminate new 
knowledge.
As part of this educational 
process, we want to nrovide an 
environment in which the student
has maximum opportunity for 
self-development. Intercollegiate 
athletics becomes such an activity, 
just as working on the TARTAN 
or working at WRCT is. Some 
students can find the means for 
self-development in one activity, 
others in a different kind of 
activity. It is our obligation to 
maintain a range of such activities 
in the athletic area. I see intra
mural athletics as important in 
this respect as intercollegiate 
athletics. In our athletic depart
ment, all sports are treated 
equally. We do not make a distinc
tion between major and minor 
sports as many schools do. All the 
sports that we participate in are
major, whether the sport is males 
or females or is co-educational.
This policy is both sensible and 
consistent with success in our 
athletic program. As evidence, last 
year we enjoyed the most success
ful seasons in our history. Thir
teen of fourteen varsity squads 
posted winning records - with 
three (football, cross country, and 
track) capturing the Presidents 
Athletic Council titles and one 
(womens tennis) going undefeated 
in Penwood Conference play. 
Also, last year the football team 
returned to post-season competi
tion for the first time since its 
1939 Sugar Bowl appearance. This 
year the womens tennis team has
won the championship in the 
league that it is playing. Our 
soccer team has beaten Pitt and 
has a .good chance at finishing 
high in the conference. Our cross
country team remains strong, 
after winning the championship 
last season and dethroning Case 
Western Reserve, the champion 
for seven years. The football team 
is strong and has recently been 
ranked third in the nation.
As we have success in the 
league in which we compete, 
there will always be pressure from 
some to move to Division II and 
compete with a different set of 
schools. It is not my intention to
move in that direction. I would 
consider such a move only if the 
schools in Division II gave up 
athletic scholarships. Even then, 
however, any move to play 
against these other schools would 
involve much higher trans
portation expenses.
In summary, the rationale for 
our athletics program is student 
development. We are not using 
athletics for raiding money, for 
pleasing faculty or alumni, or for 
the aggrandizement of the univer
sity. We will enjoy our success in 
the league in which we are now 
competing; and when we have 
less success, we will Kve with that 
condition also.
Media representation of rape research misleading
This opinion was authored by 
Barbara Graham, Technical Aid 
Specialist for the Pennsylvania 
Coalition Against Rape (PCAR).
Recently the Law Enforce
ment Assistance Administration 
released a study entitled Rape 
Victimization in 26 Cities, which 
identified patterns in sexual 
assault situations; subsequently 
a press release was issued report
ing the basics of this study, Re
search of this kind can be valu
able both in terms of preven
tive education and victim service 
provision by agencies concerned 
with violence against women. 
However, the manner in which 
these research findings were pre
sented to the general public by 
the media will cause, in my op
inion, an undue amount of fear 
in some women and a false sense 
of security in others, for it paints 
a narrow picture of who is vul
nerable or at high risk. Too many 
women who do not fit the cate
gory the most likely victim of 
a rapist will breathe a sigh of 
relief and fail to accept the real
ity that all women are vulnerable 
to a sexual assault, and that a 
sense of caution is always nec
essary.
A closer look at the facts 
is appropriate and necessaiy. In 
the 26 cities surveyed, the con
clusions reached are based on an 
estimated 39,310 victimizations.
The age group that exper
iences tlie highest risk of being 
raped was estimated to be 16 to 
24 years; the researchers reached 
their conclusion based on data 
received from women over 12 
years old. As the report notes, 
estimates based on about 50 
or fewer sample cases may be 
statistically unreliable.
Perhaps it should also be noted 
that while the risk of being 
raped appears to lessen as age 
increases, the chance of the rape 
being completed over the age 
of 25 years increases. The re
port also states that the older 
the victim, the more likely to 
suffer more non-rape injuries. 
Again, the latter conclusions are 
based on a small sampling, but 
is the media being fair and honest 
by presenting only the fact 
that the age bracket of 16 to 
24 years is the highest risk group 
without explaining the age samp
ling used and the more serious 
risks for older women?
Rape victims are most often 
single rather than married, div
orced or separated. Some addendums will clarify who women 
who are not married seem to 
be most vulnerable. Women 
between the ages of 16 to 24
years, those ages cited as most 
vulnerable, would constitute a 
higher percentage of angle per
sons as they have not yet set
tled down. Also they-are pro
bably the most mobile, most 
social, most activity-oriented and 
therefore the most vulnerable... 
Singleness is not a sole reason 
women are assaulted.
The typical victim, besides 
being young and single, is poor 
and a minority woman. First, 
it should be emphasized that 
the income level is not the in
come of the woman, but the 
income of the family unit of 
which she is a part. It should be 
realized that income levels af
fect the areas where one re
sides and that urban areas in 
which there are pockets of 
low income residents are also 
pockets of violence because 
of the frustration and angers 
that arise from not being able 
to support oneself o^ ones 
family. Secondly, it is not a 
poor minority woman who 
bears the highest risk; the 
data suggests that for minori
ty women the rape rate was 
about the same for incomes 
less than $7,500 and between 
$7,500 and $14,999...
In only 18% of the victimi
zations studied were the as
sailants known to the victim. 
Media personnel should have
read further in the report 
where the following is print
ed, This probably does not 
reflect the actual proportion 
of rape involving strangers. 
The results of San Jose re
verse record check showed 
that only 54 percent of rapes 
committed by nonstrangers 
were reported to survey in
terviewers by known victims, 
compared with 84 percent of 
the rapes committed by 
strangers. .the 26 cities sur
veyed may be biased by undercounting the nonstranger 
rapes.
The study indicated that 
women who resist a rapist 
may increase their chances of 
being injured more seriously. 
The chances of preventing 
the rape from being com
pleted increases also with
resistance. One should pause 
to consider that just maybe 
injuries such as cuts, bruises, 
black eyes or broken bones, 
though traumatic, may heal 
much more quickly than the 
emotional and physical 
trauma of being sexually vio
lated. Since rape is a crime 
of violence committed against a womans will, injur
ies will be sustained whether 
the woman actively resists or not, 
or whether the rape is completed 
or not.
The last item I wish to take 
issue with is this sentence from 
the survey, One suggestion (per
haps unrealistic in many circum
stances) is that young women 
should avoid being out at night 
alone. When will our society re
verse the myth that women must 
be responsible for the behavior 
of men? When will women be al
lowed basic freedoms without 
having to fear retribution? Several 
years ago when there was an in
crease in sexual assaults in Israel, 
Parliament suggested establishing 
a curfew for women. Prime Min
ister Golda Meirs reply was that 
if men were committing these as
saults, the curfew should be on 
the men.
Issue is not being taken with 
the study itself, but with the man
ner in which the media presented 
the material to the public. Figures 
out of context do little to raise 
public consciousness but instead, 
as in this instance, unconscious
ly perpetuate myths, misconcep
tions, and slanted truths. The 
truth is the realization that the 
odds are better than 1 in 15 that 
a woman will be raped in her life
time.
glad to volunteer their time and 
effort. The admission charge 
merely, shows their true colors; 
they are in it for the money, 
not the cause.
David Cunnius 
Chemistry 
More cuts on Films 
Editor:
I would like to thank Film Arts 
Chairperson Linda Dawes and her 
co-workers for presenting an out
standing series of film titles.
To reiterate my previous crit
icism of Film Arts Series (TAR
TAN 9/25): Because I have seen 
many of these films before, I am 
annoyed whenever the prints 
screened here are missing impor* tant scenes. This event is unfortu
nate for the film-maker and for the 
audience. The cut print does 
not do justice to the film-makers 
idea, and consequently does not
provide the intended experience 
for the audience.
I am puzzled by Chairperson 
Dawes reply to my criticism 
(TARTAN 10/2), Were not re
sponsible for the quality of the 
print, the soundtrack, or the 
wholeness of the print. Certainly 
the committee has chosen to do 
business with a particular film dis
tributor. Excellent prints of these 
films are available elsewhere; I 
have seen the whole film before, 
and perhaps Film Arts choice of 
distributors needs to be question
ed. Why doesnt the committee 
accept responsibility for their 
choice of distributors, and subse
quent quality of prints?
It is only rational to suppose 
that scenes missing from the 
prints screened here were lost by 
careless projectionists elsewhere. 
It is a misinterpretation of my
previous letter to suggest I was 
insinuating that the projectionists 
here have stolen film-clips before 
showing the films to our audience. 
In fact, it only takes an occasional 
unscrupulous projectionist to ruin 
many excellent prints. As a group, 
projectionists nationwide should 
be complimented for their stead
fast perseverance and careful 
handling of film copy.
What remains to be answered is 
the fact that many people feel (as 
Ms. Dawes suggests), they would 
have rather Id complained direct
ly and discretely, or better yet, 
work within the organization for 
improvement. Although my letter 
represents a solitary voice, it is 
appropriate for publication, be
cause it articulates the annoyance 
and frustration felt by many when 
short-changed by Film Arts film 
copy. Also, publication subjects
my complaint to thought-aboutthe-issue by every reader. This 
thought and talk lends impact to 
the complaint. I have chosen to be 
an outspoken outsider. The 
committee should appreciate the 
objectivity gained through a heal
thy balance of self-criticism from
within and audience criticism 
from without. Creative response 
to criticism can only help a good 
organization become a very good 
organization.
Paul Kram 
Architecture
The Premier 
of Dossier 
Today in the 
TARTAN
\

---------------------------------------------------

PRICELESS...
Only costs $15.50
/ . ' ' ;
(a yearbook is forever)
Onlsale until November 12 at the Skibo Information Desk

1980 THISTLE
THISTLE
Room 46-A Skibo Carnegie-Mellon University Schenley Park Pittsburgh, PA 15213
October, 1979 
Fellow Student
A belated welcome back from the entire staff of the THISTLE, the CMU yearbook. We hope you had a super summer, and that 
you // have an exciting, successful year.
From the look of things, its shaping up to be the best year in a long time. With nationally known figures joining our already 
prominent faculty, the classrooms willbe a-buzz with academic discussion and artistic creation. We can expect big things from 
the Tartans too, a sure bet to lead the PAC again. SA RC is; planning a homecoming blast thatll go on for a whole weekend. 
AB is reputed to have a dynamite act lined up for the fall concert. And theres an exciting schedule of lectures, exhibits, shows, 
films, and dances planned.
It s going to be a year you won If want to forget, and the THISTLES going to insure you dont have to. We re going all out to 
compile a complete chronicle of the school year, and then, do a little reflection on it. In doing so, we re going to go all over 
campus to get the lowdown on whats up, from snooping in Skibo to Hunting through the library.
Chances are you II see a THISTLE staff person soon. Say hi to our reporter, and cheese to our photographer. Then look for 
yourself in the yearbook this spring. That's rightthis spring. For the first time, the THISTLE will be out when you are (and 
still with pictures of Carnival, Graduation, and Spring Sports).
But youd better get your own copy of the THISTLE, because we find people are pretty stingy with theirs. Its worth the 
$15.50 it costs and really, theres no better memento of the school year! Its just as special to underclassmen as it is to seniors, 
because its got a little something for everyone. We re sure youll want one.
We have to ask, though, that you order your THISTLE by November 12 because our publishers bugging us to tell him early 
how many books we want. So we re making it easy for you to place your orderjust detach the bottom portion and return 
it to our office. Pay by check or money order. We 7/ mail you a receipt. Or order at the Information Desk. However you order, 
remember, November 12 is the last day.
Thank you and accept our best wishes for a great year.
Sincerely,
JeWCSaul Car liner 
Editor-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

/
October 9, 1979-TARTAN-Page 5
- V - Iook group photos schedule
A photographer f$om the Merin Studios will be taking group portraits during the week of October 8 for the 1980 THISTLE. 
Because of the large number of groups to be photograghed, no changes in the portrait schedule can be made. The THISTLE tried 
to have the group lots coincide with each organizations regular meeting time.
Each group is asked to be assembled five minutes prior to the schduled portrait time and to have ready a summary of the groups 
plans fad its purpose for the coming year, for inclusion iit the yearbook. iVo group can be included in the book without providing 
this information. The THISTLE thanks each group in advance for its cooperation.
Tues. Oct. 9 (Ballroom) 
Ted* House :
SDC space
by Ken Kulak
The Student Dormitory Council (SDC) 
held its weekly meeting on Wednesday, 
October 3, in the Wherrett Room at 7 PM. 
The highlight of the meetin was a discus
sion with John Eichmuller, Director of 
University Food Services, concerning Food 
Service. Eichmuller answered representa
tives questions for 45 minutes, covering all 
aspects of the new Vali-Dine system.
One fact that Eichmuller mentioned was 
. that Food Service can now find discrepan
cies in accounts, although hard-copy 
receipts of individual purchases are not yet 
possible. He also told students that balan
ces can be calculated each day.
During the official portion of the meet
ing, several important announcements were 
made. SDC advisor Jerry Marks (Residence 
Life) informed representatives that several 
high-pressure sales outfits were conducting 
door-to-door and telephone campaigns on 
the CMU campus. Jerry urged students to 
contact their Resident Assistants immedi-Health Service offers free care to students soliciting by non-university organizations
Wed. Oct. 10 (Ballroom)
Law Club 
AA.SE.C.
A.B. & Committees (TGIF,
Concerts, Lectures, Movies,
Technical)
Scotch V Soda
Kiltie Band ; fV~! -------**********
S.D.C.  '
11
Thurs, Oct.l 1 (Skibo Lobby) 
3:40 PM Karate dub 
4:00 PMH&SSSA.C. 
Student Corp.
SARC 
Oakland Review 
Soc. of Women Engineers 
Minority Women in Tech and Sci.
APhiO
Flying Club 
Computer Club**********
Wmm
.*
it!
tii:
********** 
Phi Mu Alpha 
Radio Club 
Eta Nu 
Orienteering Club 
Explorers Club 
I.V.C.F. **********
by Jim Bost
With the outbreak of colds and flu on 
campus, many people have made use of the 
Student Health Department. The Depart
ment is located in Morewood Gardens DTower and has its own private entrance 
from the Garden Grcle. It is open from 
8:30 AM to 5:00 PM Monday through 
Friday and doctors are on duty from 11:30 
AM to 4:00 PM on these days.
The staff at the Health Department 
consists of 4 rotating doctors, 2 nurses, 
and a secretary. The physicians are Ed
ward L. Bamonte M.D., Director of Health 
Department; Rene Gonzalez M.D., Assis
tant Director; Lucille M. Koehler M. D., 
Assistant Director; and the 4th is rotated 
from a group of doctors from the Shadyside Family Practice Center. Eleanor Webb 
and Shirley McClure are the nurses and the 
Departments secretary is Florence Rosen
berg.
The Health Center treats people with 
general ailments. The most common are 
colds, flu, accidents, bruises, bee stings, eye 
problems, and knife cuts (of art students). 
If your illness cannot be treated at the De
partments Office, the doctors will refer 
you to specialists within the immediate 
area.
Besides treating minor ailments, the 
Health Department nurses will administer 
immunization shots as long as the student 
brings his or her own serum. The shots will 
be given only at the times when the doc
tors are in.
Another program the department offers 
is a gynecological service for women. A 
clinic is held once a week by Doctor Koeh
ler. Making an appointment is the usual 
procedure.
The Student Health Department is used 
by many of those attending CMU. Last 
month they treated 1250 people and the 
average per month is at least 1000.
If you find yourself in need of medical 
attention on weekends or after the Depart
ments open hours, dont panic. Get in 
touch with your R.A. who should then 
call Campus Police. They will usually take 
you to the Shadyside Hcfspital Emergency 
Room, where you can receive treatment.
All of the medical care (excluding lab 
work) received at the Health Department 
is free. This includes the shots, clinic and 
security excort service. If you illness re
quires a specialist outside the Department, 
you will be charged by them.
The Student Health Department isopen 
all year round and urges students to make 
use of their services. The Departments 
number is 578-2157.A routine visit to Health Services
Profs travel to Sweden
by Chris Gebhardt
Carnegie-Mellon chemistry professors, 
Dr. Albert A. Caretto and Dr. Paul J. Karol 
recently attended the Ninth European Con
ference of Chemistry and Physics of Nu
clear Reactions. The conference, held every 
two years, met in Engelber, Switzerland, 
near Zurich, from September 23 through 
September 28.
The conference is designed as a review 
nuclear reaction research done all around 
the world. The meeting brings those 
attending up to date on the latest develop
ments in nuclear reactions, especially those 
developments concerning high energy par
ticles. An especially relevant topic con
cerning the world today, the developments
is expressly forbidden.
The petition by Margaret Morrison 
Apartment students asking restitution for 
violation of housing contracts by the Uni
versity was forwarded to Gerald Dalton, 
who subsequently sent it to Auxilary Ser
vices. Its present status, according to an 
SDC official, is somewhere in the upper 
echelons of Warner Hall. Hie Housing 
Committee will also be looking into the 
Centrex problems caused by last years 
students not paying their bills (resulting in 
restricted service for this years students).
Renovations Committee, sensing that a 
great deal of meeting time was being spent 
on the specific, individual problems, de
cided to set up a new meeting format. 
Representatives now append requests 
and/or problems brought to them by resi
dents onto a special list, which the Com
mittee examines and acts upon, reporting 
the results to the Council at the following 
meeting. This week, Renovations announ
ced the installation of a pool table in 
Mudge.
A motion by Rudy Nedved to form a 
Violent Crime Study Committee was 
tabled, and will be brought up for discus
sion at the meeting on October 9.
SDC will meet tomorrow night at 7 PM 
in the Wherrett Room.
the world gathered at this conference. The 
format of the conference was different 
than that of a typical American scientific 
conference. The total attendance at this 
conference is kept relatively small, approx
imately 70. This tends to promote a very 
informal atmosphere where there is much 
opportunity to exchange information on 
research.
According to Dr. Caretto, This con
ference is far better than a typical Ameri
can conference with thousands of people 
and no chance to speak individally with 
related the mechanisms of solar energy, 
was also discussed.
. Professors and scientists from all over 
continued on page 9
iiHiiMinmiimiiiiaimiiiiminiiiimimDiimimmniiiiiiiniitamintniiiainiHinmanHHiiiniaiii
ORDER YOUR CMU OR CIT RING
The following is a memo to all students and organizations from Dean Swank.
The University has implemented a new regulation governing the use of explosives and 
incendiary materials on University property. It follows:
No use of explosives or incendiary materials on University property may take 
place without the explicit permission of the Dean of Student Affairs in concert 
with the Director of Safety and under supervision of the latter. Failure to abide 
by this regulation will result in suspension of all social and competitive privileges 
of the organization violating the regulation, or suspension of the individual viola
ting the regulation.
i WEDNESDAY, 
I OCTOBER 10
I NOWWITH ALL 
OFg COLORS 
E BIRTHSTONES
New improved yearbook now on sale
In honor of National Yearbook Week, 
October 17, the THISTLE staff has 
unveiled its plans for the 1980 Yearbook.
According to Saul Carliner, Editor-inChief, the 1980 yearbook will be drastic
ally improved as compared to recent 
books. These improvements include
increasing the size of the book from 200
to 280 pages; three new sections covering
events, dorm life and administration; more
copy including in-depth articles on
education, the athletic program, campus
activities, and university management;
continued on page 6
THURSDAY, 
OCTOBER 11
BEAT THE 
HIGH COST 
OF GOLD!
EXCALIBUR| 
BRILLIANT! | 
TOUGH!
LASTING 
BEAUTY!
GENTS - $7^
| LADIES -$69
I A DIEGES % CLUST REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN THE | 
I BOOKSTORE TO SHOW SAMPLES AND HELP YOU SELECT 
| YOUR RING ON WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY 10-4 
| $15 DEPOSIT ______________I
? THE ORIGINAL 
I CMU RING
m youm.
Customize your ring to your 
personality Choose from the 
many Dieges & Clust options 
available gleaming precious 
metals sparkling stones 
exciting colors bold designs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANOctober 9, 1979
6,8, and 10 DH 2210Picnic at Hanging Rock
6,8,10 and 12 DH 2210Friday Filins
Homecoming Concert 
Blood, Sweat & Tears 
Michael Johnson
7,9 and 11 PM DH 2210The ServantFilm Arts
6,8,10 and 12 PMBetty Boop CartoonsFriday Films
Lectures and 
Special Events
6,8 and 10 DH 2210Film Arts
4 PM BallroomTGIFjConcert
Friday Films
The Hmntrng
The Legend of Heil House
The Innocents
' :/.;: ':v., " ' x-Connie Huber with 
Tom Steppe
Activities Board
Thursday, October 11 
Friday, October 12 
Sunday, October 14**
Thursday, October 18 
Friday, October 19 
Tuesday, October 23*
Thursday, October 25 
Friday. October 26 
Friday, October 26
Saturday, October 27 -
Film Arts
Tickets - $.50 with CMU ID, $1.00 with CMU Staff ID
??Tickets - $4.00 with CMU Student ID, $5.00 with other college Student ID, $6.00 general public 
AU tickets and further information available at Skibo Information Desk x2107.
Sorority rush
*
continued from page 1
Eileen Sieff, 1st Vice President; Cindy 
Baker, 2nd Vice President; Jenny 
Steinhauer, Membership; and Lynne 
Koupal, Pledge Trainer.
Chi Omega, founded at the University 
of Arkansas in 1895, consists of 20 
members and 9 new pledges. Six of the 
pledges are freshmen and three are soph
omores. According to-President Michelle 
Pietz, the turnout this year was the same 
as in previous years. Other current officers 
include Anita Friedlander, Vice President; 
Carla Bovay, Rush Chairman; and Joanne 
Kovalicik, Pledge Trainer.
Delta Delta Delta, founded at Boston 
University in 1888, has shown an increase 
in membership this year. There are 31 
members and 16 new pledges. Of the 16 
pledges, 14 are freshmen and 2 are soph
omores. President Anita Slane said this, 
years chapter is the largest it has ever 
been. Other Tri-Delt officers include Vice 
President, Christine DeVeau; Chaplain, 
Molly McClosky;and Pledge Trainer, Linda 
Berry.
Kappa Alpha Theta was founded at 
DePaul University in 1870. This year there 
are 42 sisters and 14 new pledges. Of the 
pledges, 11 are freshmen, 2 are soph
omores, and 1 is a junior. Along with 
President Nancy Silverman, other officers 
are Linda Morini, Vice President of 
Efficiency; Lynda Petrini, Vice President 
of Pledge Education; and Ann Prochaska, 
Rush Chairman.
Delta Gamma, founded in 1873 at the 
Lewis School in Oxford, consists of 14 
members and 3 new pledges, two of which 
are freshmen and one who is a sophomore. 
According to President Phyllis Berger, 
there were more pledges last year. This 
years current officers include Sue Hill, 
Rush Vice President; Kari Denzau, Pledge 
Education Vice President; and Karen 
Yaksich, Chapter Relations Vice President.
THISTLE photo schedule
The following is the THISTLE photo 
schedule for the social greek organizations: 
Sunday, October 14 
(Skibo Lobby)
1:00 Beta Theta Pi 
1:15 DU 
1:30 ATO 
1:45 SAE 
2:00 PiKa 
2:15 DTD 
2:30 ZBT
2:45 Phi Kappa Theta 
3:00 Theta Xi 
3:15 Kappa Sigma 
3:30 Pi Lam 
3:45 Sigma Nu 
4:00 Chi Omega
4:15 Delta Delta Delta 
4:30 Delta Gamma 
4:45 Kappa Alpha Theta 
5:00 Kappa Kappa Gamma
Senate report
by Edna Kunkel
At last weeks Student Senate meeting, 
two new campus regulations were intro
duced; one concerned noise levels (loud 
stereo-playing heard outside of university 
buildings), and the other banned the use 
of explosives without the permission of the 
Dean of Student Affairs.
Other items on the agenda included re
vision and approval of the budgets for the 
Computer Club and Scotch n Soda, and 
the addition of the requirement, for all 
clubs recognized by Senate, to complete 
Inventory Control Sheets.
Complete Senate minutes will be posted 
at the following locations: the Skibo In
formation Desk and the Faculty Senate 
Bulletin Board in Baker Hall.
Student Senate meets every Tuesday 
at 7:30 PM in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
New yearbook
continued from page 5
more color and artwork; and a spring del
ivery. The Thistle staff hopes to have 
the yearbooks out on campus in May.
I think the greatest improvement, 
though, is in our philosophy, he stated..
For example, the yearbook staff is 
attempting to include more than twice 
the number of student organizations in 
this book than there were in last years.
All students and organization are en
couraged to purchase a copy. The book 
costs $15.50 and may be ordered at the 
Information desk until November 12.
CAMPUS STORES1 CORNER
THIS WHAT YOUR KISSES TASK LIKE?
If you smoke cigarettes, you taste like one.Your clothes and hair can smell stale and unpleasant, too.You don't notice it. but people close to you do. Especially if they don't smoke.And non-smokers are the best people to love. They live longer.
AMERICAN 
CANCER SOCIETYI
This space contributed hy I he 
publisher as  public service.
In 1985 a cataclysmic coincidence of previously unknown proportion ex
tinguished virtually all forms of life on the North American Continent. In 
Motel of the Mysteries. David Macaulay depicts the dramatic discover of a 
still-sealed burial chamber, including the actual remains of two bodies, one of 
them on a ceremonial bed facing an altar that appeared to be a means of 
communicating with the Gods, and the other lying in a porcelain sarcophagus 
-in the Inner Chamber. These and other clues permit him to piece together the 
whole fabric of that extraordinary civilization.
paper.. $4.95emu bookstore* 
trivia question:
ft3. What state has the greatest percentage of its state boundary in shoreline?
ANSWER
NameAddress
Any questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE?

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1979TARTANPage 7
news roundup
by Dave Boyce 
Carter Responds To uban Situation
President Carter pledged to increase 
surveillance and step-up military activities 
in the Caribbean region in response to the 
Soviet refusal to back down in Cuba. Mr. 
Carter emphasized that although the 
Soviets pose no foreseeable threat to 
Western security, the U.S. response in
dicates readiness to act if necessary. 
The Soviets continue to downplay the im
portance of the situations and charge the 
United States with political opportunism. 
Policy experts on both sides are reportedly 
having a very difficult time trying to 
understand each others views.
Canal Zone Changes Hands
Vice-president Mondale witnessed the 
official turn-over of the Panama Canal 
Zone to the Panamanians last week. The 
canal itself will remain under partial U.S. 
authority until the end of this century. 
Gen. Torrijos, who signed the treaty in 
1977, was not present. His successor 
for the past year, President Royo Sanchez, 
represented Panama at the ceremony. To 
mark the occasion, the Panamanians 
erected a 150 ft. stainless steel flagpole 
and graced it with a huge American flag 
(48 by 33 ft.) weighing 44 pounds.
Navy Will Get New Nuclear Carrier
President Carter gave in last week to 
Congressional demands for another nuclear 
aircraft carrier. In return, Congress 
agreed to refrain from efforts to lift 
economic sanctions against Zimbabwe 
Rhodesia. The new carrier will cost
$2.36 billion. Mr. Carter reportedly felt
that another veto would be inappropriate 
because of the current push for higher 
-spending on defense.
Papal Visits Bring Out Thousands
Pope John Paul II made history last 
week as he became the first Pope ever to 
visit the United States. He spoke of trad
itional moral value to 500,000 in the 
Boston Common; the same theme of his 
Irish tour.. The IRA, meanwhile, has 
rejected his plea for a non-violent solution 
to Irelands difficulties.
In New York, John Paul spoke before 
the U.N. General Assembly. He empha
sized his concern for human rights and 
made special mention of the Palestinian 
problem. He then celebrated a special mass 
for 80,000 at Yankee Stadium. The Pope 
visited Philadelphia, Chicago and Washing
ton, D.C. before returning to Rome.
Balloonists End Voyage in Ohio
The four-person crew of the heliumfilled balloon, DaVinci, set down in 
Spencerville, Ohio last week thus failing 
to complete the first trans-continental 
flight. They were waylaid by a surprise 
thunder storm at 14,000 ft. The balloon 
took on snow and ice and the crew could 
not jettison enough ballast to ride it 
out. They expect to try again when their 
spirit returns.
Cleveland's Kucinich Up For Re-election
33-year-old Dennis J. Kucinich, the 
Democratic mayor of Cleveland, came in 
a close second to Republican challenger, 
Lt. Gov. George Voinovich in the recent 
mayoral primary. Kucinich enjoys being
the underdog, however, and plans a se
rious campaign aimed at exposing his 
opponent as a cardboard candidate 
for the rich Republican party.
Power Plant Emergency Plans Will Change
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
has finished its appraisal of emergency 
planning at the Beaver Valley No. 1 power 
station. The Duquesne Light Co., owner of 
the plant, will have to install an earlywarning grid system of sirens within a ten 
mile radius of the plant. Control room 
procedures and instrumentation will also 
change to comply with NRC directives. 
These changes affect all U.S. nuclear power 
plants and should be in place by early 
1981.
Cameras Permitted in Pa. Courtrooms
Pennsylvania courtrooms may now be 
equipped with noiseless tape recorders 
and special TV cameras that require no 
special lighting. News coverage is restricted 
to non-juried civil trials and hearings and 
will be permitted at the discretion of the 
presiding judge. The cameras will be al
lowed in court for a one-year experimental 
period.
Gold Prices Skyrocket
An ounce of gold sold for $444 in 
Europe last week. The price has dropped 
below $400 since then. Experienced gold 
traders blame it on hysterical buying 
and selling in response to the declining 
value of the U.S. dollar. U.S. Treasury 
officials confirm that a dollar-support 
plan exists if support becomes necessary.
Uruguay Again Eligible for Partial U.S. 
Aid
The Uruguayan military dictatorship 
has substantially reduced its number of 
jailed political prisoners making the nation 
again eligible for aid. Although prisoners 
are fewer, totalitarianism is said to remain 
strong. Government computers keep tabs 
on everyone with past political activity. 
Political discussion in a public forum is 
forbidden and voting is not on a par with 
other democratic nations.
Thornburgh Proposes Tough Legislation
Last week, Governor Thornburgh re
quested of the Pennsylvania General as
sembly that parole be abolished and that 
able-bodied persons be removed from the 
welfare rolls. He also recommended tax 
exemptions for alternative energy use, 
tighter controls on toxic waste disposal, 
an extension of the statute of limitations 
on organized and white collar crime and 
merit selection of judges rather than di
rect election. These proposals, in general, 
correspond to traditional Pennsylvania 
Republican philosophy. State Democrats 
have labeled his speech as rhetoric.
Guerrillas Compromise in Rhodesia
The Patriotic Front guerrilla alliance 
conceded under protest to a proposal 
guaranteeing a 20 percent white mem
bership in the new Zimbabwe Rhodesian 
parliament. This concession follows a 
major policy change by Bishop Abel 
Muzorewa, who recently agreed to the 
general principles of a new constitution 
proposed by Britain.
Quiet hours 
imposed
The following is a memo from Dean 
Swank to all students regarding the volume 
level of stereos:
The University continues to receive 
complaints from residents of the campus 
area and from students living on campus 
about the noise created by stereos played 
at high volume and directed outdoors.
Effective immediately I am asking 
members of the staff and Security to 
notify me of violations of the following 
guidelines:
1. The playing of stereos which can be 
heard outside a University building must 
be confined to the hours listed below:
Friday.....................4:30 PM to midnight
Saturday................4:30 PM to midnight
All other days. . . .4:30 PM to 7:00 PM
2. Any speaker system which results 
in a complaint from residents beyond the 
campus must be reduced in volume im
mediately upon notification by a Security 
officer or staff member to the student or 
organization responsible for it. Failure to 
meet such a reasonable request by a 
University officer is punishable by an 
immediate fine of $25.00.
The policy described above is effective 
on a trial basis immediately. If there are no 
modifications as a result of requests from 
student governance groups by October 15 
the policy will continue in effect without 
change.
* 00 YoU HAVE A . CHEVROLET CHEVE7rETHATS NOT 
ALL CLEANED UP YET?I WANT HER TOTHINK IOWN IT. "
$1^95 u z
200 No-Charge Miles
(Extra miles 20$ each) 
Chvette or similar.
Available 8:00 a.m. Friday til 
5:00 p.m. Monday.
You pay for gas and return car 
to renting location. Rate nondiscountable 
and subject to 
change with
out notice.
Specific cars 
subject to 
availability.
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave 
(Hess Exxon)
National Car Rental
We offer S & H Green 
Stamp certificates on 
rentals in all 50 U S states.
We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette
sggggggggggggggggggggg888g8888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888%
... call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOTLINE X2127 Mon. 5PM - 6PM

---------------------------------------------------

CAREER SURVIVAL
GUIDE
rinding your way out of the jilngle of companies 
that visit your campus each year is tough. Some
times you haven't even heard of them, before they 
arrive for interviews. In order to survive, you have 
to take the necessary precautions. *
KNOW THE COMPANY. We re Lawrence Livermore 
Laboratory, operated by the University of California for 
the U.S. Department of Energy, and we re involved in 
many exciting projects concerning energy, national 
defense, and bio-medical research. Some of our major 
projects include:
Nuclear Weapons R&D 
Laser Fusion 
Magnetic Fusion Energy 
Automated Cytological Diagnosis of Human Cancer 
A Search for Alternatives to Fossil Fuel: Solar, Wind, Geothermal,
Oil Shale, Coal Gasification
KNOW THE LOCATION. The Lab sits in 
California's Livermore Valleya country of open space, 
beautiful hills and lakes, a country of cattle, and a 
country of vineyardsjust minutes away from the San 
Francisco Bay Area.
KNOW THE ATMOSPHERE. You'll work with top 
scientists on projects that go well beyond the state-ofthe-art, and you II find a friendly environment where the 
freedom to determine your own pace and direction is 
the key.
We want you to know about us. If you have or are about 
to receive a degree in engineering or computer science, 
see us on campus at your Placement Office. Or contact 
us for more information about our many career 
opportunities by sending your resume to Employment 
Division, Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, P.O. Box 808, 
Dept.- JCM, Livermore, CA 94550.
U.S. Citizenship Required. An Equal Opportunity 
Employer, M/F/H/V.
On Campus: 
Tues., Oct. 16m
LAWRENCE
LIVERMORE
LABORATORY

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1979TARTANPage 9
HARVARD
Kennedy School of 
Government
is looking for future 
leaders in Public Affairs.
Learn about Harvard's masters 
program in Public Policy and 
Management.
CMU Placement Office October 10-10:30 - 12:30 
Contact the placement/career counseling office. 
Seniors, juniors  all majors welcome.
Child care available
Try Putting us on!
Affordable 
Fashion Eyewear 
for men & women
All types of 
contact lenses
Soft Contacts 
$95. plus 
fitting fee
Trial fitting at 
no obligation
I ONE 6IFT SUPPORTS 
i OVER 160 A6ENCIES & SERVICESmmm \
by Debbie Nir
The CMU Child Care Center is a private, 
nonprofit pre-school offering extended day 
care. According to Marsha Poster, Director* 
of the Center, the center is under the 
jurisdiction of Auxiliary Services and is 
also used as a training ground for colleges 
in the area offering early childhood care 
programs.
Located in the basement level of Morewood, the Center has come a long way 
since its start in 1971 when it consisted of 
12 children, one full time staff member , 
and one part time staff member. The 
Center now consists of 75 children, 17 
staff members, and 10 work-study stu
dents. The center is also in the process of 
searching for a physical education instruc
tor, an arts and crafts specialist, and a 
nutritionalist.
Licensed by the Board of Private 
Academic Schools, the Pennsylvania Depart
ment of Education, and the Pennsylvania 
Department of Public Welfare, the center 
consists of 4 groups of pre-schoolers; the 
3-year olds, the 3-4 year olds, pre-kinder
garten, and kindergarten.' Ms. Poster, who 
earned a Masters at the University of 
Pittsburgh in the Health Related Profes
sion and is currently working on her 
Doctorate in Educational Administraton, 
states, Each year the classifications and 
numbers of groups are flexible. This year 
we have a lot more children who are 
younger.
The center is open September through 
May, while the summer session is June and 
July. It is open Monday through Friday 
from 7:30 AM to 5:30 PM, and every hour 
is used to keep the children thoroughly 
occupied. During the morning hours the 
children may participate in art or table 
activities during Free Play-, and later on 
participate in planned activities such as 
Eurythmics, field trips, trips to the play
ground, and arts and crafts. The afternoon 
activities consist of Storytelling and Quiet 
Activities, and gym and field trips for PreKindergarteners and Kindergarteners. A 
hot lunch and two snacks are prepared 
during the day.
Some days the children are taught to 
swim at the Universitys swimming pool. 
According to Ms. Poster, the CMU Athletic 
Department has been very supportive of 
swimming for pre-schoolers.
There is a tuition which must be paid 
monthly, but there are special rates avail
able for children of students and CMU 
employees. There is also the Private Pro
viders Pilot Project, which offers financial 
assistance to those persons with children 
in the center who have an income below 
a certain level. i' .
The CMU Child Care Center is open to 
children outside the CMU community but 
first priority goes to children of students, 
faculty, and staff members of CMU. If 
you are interested in finding out more, or 
know someone who is, call 687-6394.
Students at the CMU Child Care Center.
'Boycott Fonda'saysCt.mayor
Profs travel to Sweden
continued from page 5 
anyone. Dr. Karol added, The results 
of experiments usually dont appear in 
print until a few years after the findings. 
This type of conference is a quick way to 
receive information and researchers tend 
to,reveal more to an audience than appears 
in print.
On a lighter side, Dr. Caretto comment
ed, The trip was very pleasant and I en
joyed the visit to Switzerland. The Swiss 
are a very hospitable people and the coun
try is very clean, beautiful, and organized. 
Every where there is beautiful scenery in
cluding the snow covered mountains. He 
did comment that the prices are high there 
due to the decrease in value of the Ameri
can dollar, but inflation doesnt seem to 
have hit there yet. As a final comment, 
Dr. Caretto added, I would have liked to 
stay longer but duty calls back here at 
CMU. 
NEW BRITAIN, CT (CPS)-New Britain 
mayor William J. McNamara joined the 
local Veterans Council last week in urging 
people to boycott a Jane Fonda and Tom 
Hayden lecture scheduled for Central 
Connecticut State College here.
Taking potshots at Fonda thus became a 
two-coast industry. Several weeks ago, 
a University of Califomia-Davis adminis
trator unilaterally struck Fondas name 
from a list of potential commencement 
speakers at the universitys medical school.
The official explanation was that 
Fondas appearance would have been 
inappropriate.
Mayor McNamara used stronger lan
guage. He asked local residents to boycott 
the Oct. 1 program at Central Connect
icuts 1700-seat auditoruim because the 
actress 1972 trip to Hanoi caused agony 
and suffering for our GIs both in combat 
and in prisoner of war camps.
What he has done, according to a wo
man at the college program council, is spur 
ticket sales. The women, who asked not to 
be named, said were selling tickets like
crazy. Nobody knew (Fonda) was coming 
before. Its been great for us. We expect to 
have a full house. She said that 500 seats 
have already been sold just three days after 
the mayors criticism, and the the rate 
of sales was unusually high.
Chris Muller, advisor to the program 
council, says the school has been trying 
to get Fonda to speak there for about two 
years now.
When the Program Council of America 
which handles Fondas campus appear
ances, told the college that Fonda and 
Hayden would be available as part of a 
30-day college tour,the students just 
jumped on it.
Muller couldnt recall a public official 
urging a boycott of a campus activity 
before. We had Dick Gregory here be
fore, she remembered, and he caused 
some comment, but some people seem to 
really hate Jane Fonda for some reason.
People should stay away, advised 
Veterans Council President Alfred Fataconi.
NOW I SERVING: [
ALLEGHENY, 5 
WASHINGTON : 
COUNTIES ;
VISA  MASTERCHARGE Phone inquires invited
suit* 620
301 fifth avenue building 
Pittsburgh penna 15222 
261-9164
k%# Rnhert Zusman

---------------------------------------------------

After you leave 
the ivy-covered walls, 
dont rush into a career 
down the primrose path.
Finally youre out
All those hard years of study and 
struggle, grades and grief. Over.
Now its time for your career to start 
off right With the sky-rocketing tele
communications segment of the 
electronics industry.
And with an innovative industry 
leader: Northern Telecom.
Northern Telecom was the first to 
introduce digital switching systems. And 
Northern Telecom is the second largest 
manufacturer of telecommunications 
equipment in North America. About 
sixth in the world.
Within the next four years, Northern 
Telecoms growth will triple. Within 
the next year, a $20 million facility will 
be ready to accommodate that growth.
At Northern Telecom, your career
rtt
Digital Switching Division
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
path will be one of exceptional growth, 
unlimited ground-floor opportunities, 
and continual challenge in a state-ofthe-art environment You'll be involved 
in the development of the finest Central 
Office Telephone Equipment in the 
world today. Arid youll enjoy the relaxed 
lifestyle of Raleigh, North Carolina 
and West Palm Beach, Florida.
You can be part of it. Part of the 
digital switching revolution. Now. At 
Northern Telecom.
See the Northern Telecom file in 
the Placement Center or send resume 
to: J. Kevin Balog, Employee Relations, 
Northern Telecom, Digital Switching 
Division, 1000 Wade Avenue, Raleigh, 
North Carolina 27605.
We will be on campus October 11.
northerntelecom

---------------------------------------------------

by Barney J. Wilson
Were not monkeying around with 
bananas this year; were going Mad for 
Plaid. And Mad for Plaid you will be as you 
and your team compete in the Highlander 
Games.
Handed down through history, the 
Highlander Games are a test of strength 
and skill, which as legend goes, showed the 
ancient Kings who should be chosen to be 
in the armies. You will haye the oppor
tunity to relive history Friday, October 
12th, as you match skills with other stu
dents in six of the Scottish Heptathalon 
test. The tests include the Sheaf Toss. 
Hammer Throw, Stone Toss, Tug-of-War, 
Weight Thrown for Height (Demon
stration), Caber Toss, and Weight Throw 
for Distance.
Hammer Throw. The heavy (221b) 
hammer thrown for distance grew out of 
local strength contests held at the village 
smithy in, which sledge .hammers were 
thrown. The rectangular heads of these 
working hammers often broke, so a 
switch to a ball of the same weight was 
approved. The thrower faces away from 
fhe area to be thrown, with his feet firmly 
planted, uses both hands to take the 
hammer three times around his hed and 
releases it.
Sheaf Toss. This event shows how the 
Scottish made a display out of an everyday 
chore. It involves throwing a burlap bag 
filled with sixteen pounds of straw, with 
a three prong pitch fork over a bar, (not 
unlike a pole vaulters). A competition 
involving coordination in lifting, jumping 
and throwing actions, the sheaf toss can 
become quite impressive with heights of 
over 25 feet being reached.
Stone Toss. Stones of varying sizes and 
weights have been tossed in Europe for 
centuries as a means of contesting indi
vidual strengths. Tossing or putting a stone 
which weighs 22 lbs. requires a good deal 
of skill, in holding the stone, moving or 
gliding with it in position, 2nd delivering 
a timed thrust. The shotput grew directly
out of these throwing contests.
Mr. Joel Keefer will be on hand to 
demonstrate all of the Highlander games. 
Not all of the tests will be offered in 
competition because of the skill required 
to perform them. One of the games that 
will not be qffered is the Weight Throw for 
Height. This game calls for grasping a metal 
block or ball weight, to which a ring or 
rectangular handle has been attached by 
chain links. The weight is swung between 
the legs and thrown so that it will clear a 
bar behind and over the head of the 
thrower which is arranged in pole vault 
'fashion. Keefers vast experience in High
lander competitions throughout the U.S. 
will allow him to give an accurate demon
stration of this sometimes dangerous game.
A favorite to many participants and 
probably the most crowd-exciting event is 
the Tug-of-War. Male and female teams will 
compete in this very familiar event. The 
competition is limited to teams of sewn 
persons, with no maximum total weight or 
restrictions on the makeup of a team.
The Caber Toss is another intense game. 
The caber is a log thrown for accuracy by 
flipping it on its far end so that the end 
held by the thrower is pointing directly 
away from him. It weighs from ninety to 
one hundred and fifty pounds and is 
eighteen to twenty feet long. A toss is 
judged by how close to 12oclock the caber 
lands after flipping (i.e. lying straight away 
from the thrower). The caber toss offers 
fun and excitement to the participants as 
well as the spectator.
Get in shape now! Go throw a rock or a 
tree, so that you will be a tough compe
titor in this years Highlander Games. All 
CMU students are eligible to participate. 
Trophies will be awarded to the victors. 
You can register a team for the Tug-ofWar now in the S.A.R.C. office on the 
5th floor in Warner Hall. Registration for 
all other events will take place on the cut, 
in the tent Friday, October 12 from 11:00 
AM to 12:30 PM.
t
Highlander Games
Highlight
Homecoming

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-October 9,1979
Faces in the Crowd
Frank Perdue - a tough man with tender chickens
by Robert Harris
Someday Western Pennsylvanians are 
going to be sitting at their television sets 
and before them will appear a visage 
consisting of a balding pate with wisps of 
hair near the ears that remind one of 
auricular feathers, a protuberance that 
looks more like a beak than the nose that 
it is, and all of this on a head slightly 
cocked to the right. The viewer will swear 
that (s)he has just seen a human sized 
chicken in a business suit talking in nasal, 
squeaking english.
That was no chicken. That is Frank 
Perdue. Frank Perdue is truly one of the
most innovative geniuses of marketing 
today. His business and life is chickens.
The fifty-nine year old Perdues business 
success reads like a Horatio Alger success 
story. He is a college dropout who turned 
his fathers chicken farm into a comput
erized processing firm worth more than 
150 million dollars.
The foundation of Perdues Salisbury, 
Maryland empire is the Perdue roaster 
which according to Perdue is the master 
race of chickens. His product and face 
now dominate the East Coast market.
The keys to his success are his creation 
of a top quality product, a tender, fresh,
Meh E's design vehicles
by Kwasi O. Mensah
This fall, the seniors of the mechanical 
engineering department are involved in a 
challenging project which could provide 
Americans with some transportation al
ternatives in these times of energy short
ages.
Ten design groups each implementing 
their technical and innovative skills must 
design and build a statically stable vehicle
A representative of the Graduate 
School of Business Administration 
will be on campus Friday, October 
12, to discuss the Duke MBA 
Program. Interested students may 
obtain further information by contactng the Office of Career Services 
& Placement..
(having at least three wheels) which must 
survive a twenty lap endurance test around 
Schenley Park.
No easy task, the design of this engine 
and peddle powered cycle will be judged 
on such attributes as protection of critical 
components, driver comfort, appearance, 
and safety.
Initially, each group must establish its 
own design goals.-Once these are estab
lished, they must toy with hypothetical 
designs until a compromise is made as to 
which is the best one. They must buy 
materials and components with the 
$1000 allotted them.
Being amember of one of the design 
groups, I anticipate a tedious and exciting 
semester, and Im sure the other designers 
feel the same way.
By the way, the endurance runs around 
Schenley Park will take place on December 
8-9, and an optional phase of the contest 
will involve a trip to Washington D.C. in 
April.
What's Happened
to RECORD
PRICES
Save up to $3.00! 
Major label LPs! Top artists!
c-mu book/toreCOME EARL Y FOR BEST SELECTION
GET YOUR FAVORITES AT
BIG DISCOUNTS
unfrozen, golden-yellow colored, highly 
inspected and naturally fed chicken; and 
the other key to his success is his highly 
professional ad campaign that features him 
and is Tun by the ad firm of Scali, McCabe, 
Sloves Inc.
Perdue is the first person to take a 
whole animal product and successfully put 
it into the category of discrimination 
products. In essence, Perdue is selling the 
idea that you wouldnt put just any de
odorant under your arm, so why put just 
any chicken in your mouth.
Frank Perdue is .an aggressive, tough 
man who is direct and to the point and his 
ads say just that, as his motto advocates: 
It takes a tough man to make a 
tender chicken.
product which is distinguished by a red 
and yellow identification tag which means 
that the particular bird bearing this tag has 
not only passed government grade-A in
spection, it has subsequently passed his 
inspection.
Perdue pushes home the inspection 
point in one of his ads: If youre not 
completely satisfied with my chicken, you 
can always write to me - the president of 
Perdue - and Ill give you your money 
back. If you buy some government ap
proved chicken, and youre not completely 
satisfied, who do you write? The President 
of the United States? What does he know 
about chickens? The point is jabbed home 
by a smug expression on Perdues face.
The key to Frank Perdues success? 
Fear. Perdue adds,*'...rm talking about 
Perdue boasts about the quality of his the kind of fear that made me thorough.
Politics and Policy US interests in Mid-East
by Bob Gleeson
One issue which has been a topic of 
political debate in this country since the 
1930s has been American foreign policy 
towards the nations of the Middle East. 
Rarely have so many Americans been so 
consistently concerned with an aspect of 
foreign policy, which has historically been 
left mainly to the experts.
Today, of course, is no exception. In
deed, never before has this region held 
such a central importance to the security 
of the United States. The fact that Middle 
Eastern policy is directly controlled by the 
President is evidence of this.
The idea that this area of the world is 
important is currently taken for granted. 
But why is it important? What are Amer
icas basic security interests in the Middle 
East today?
The most obvious interest is our econ
omic concern. I need not review the im
portance of Middle Eastern oil supply and 
price to the prosperity of the American 
economy. The economic effects produced 
by the cutoff of Iranian oil show dramat
ically how vulnerable we are. The Secretary 
of Defense has publicly stated that the U.S. 
would even use force if necessary to keep 
that oil flowing.
A less obvious economic interest is 
increasing in importance as the price of 
oil continues to rise. As the Arab coun
tries have more and more currency *in the 
bank, it becomes very important how they 
invest this money. Irresponsible invest
ment could seriously damage the econom
ic growth of Western nations.
Looking to the future, the Middle East 
is one of the most promising underdevel
oped regions of the world. American trade 
with it has been growing consistently and 
there is much future promise. The Israeli 
example clearly shows what can be done 
to increase economic growth. With Amer
ican help, the Arab deserts could bloom 
too.
The U.S. also has strategic interests in 
the area. Its geographic location relative 
to the Soviet Union makes it a vital issue 
to both superpowers. The U.S. tries to 
prevent Soviet domination of the region 
by excluding the Soviet from the peace 
process between the Arabs and the 
Israelis. This has been partially success
ful.
Peace and stability in the region is 
important because previous unrest and 
violence has tended to draw the super
powers into direct conflict with each other. 
For example, the Yom Kippur War almost 
led to direct Soviet intervention on behalf 
of the Egyptians.. This caused a serious 
crisis which nearly became a nuclear 
showdown between the superpowers. 
This must be avoided.
In addition, events in the Middle East 
have a strong impact on international 
politics and cooperation. Middle East
ern countries consider themselves a part 
of the Third World. If the U.S. is able to 
help solve the problems of the developing 
nations, it can improve its relations with 
other developing nations as well.
These are some of the basic reasons why 
the Middle East is so important to this 
country. They should be considered when 
each of us forms our own opinions of 
what the U.S. should do in the region.
VALUABLE COUPON
15..0 Ch v5.e1to
Pizza Pasta Sandwiches
Dine In or Take Out
WE DELIVER
Delivery: Mon.-Sat. 5:00-11:30
Present this coupon for 
$1.00 off the purchase 
price of a Large Pizza with
2 or more toppings.
rsi omla1m oFn yuAssud
VALUABLE COUPON
1

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1979-TARTAN-Page 13
CMU talks about.
The Greek System
Even though the Greek system .here isnt 
as large as those at other schools, I think 
they do provide a service. They try to 
keep up the school spirit, as is evident 
during Spring Carnival. They do most of 
the participation in booths, buggy, etc. 
I think without them, the campus would 
be pretty dead.-
Phil Nickerson App. Math 82
I think its pretty amusing. Its good 
idea if you need a structure to live in, with 
people around you all the time, and if 
you need certified friends. I myself 
dont find it necessary. I think theres 
a lot of pretense in it, but idealistically, 
its a good idea.
Louise Molnar Illustration 80
photos by Robert Zusman
The fraternity and sorority system is 
really good, because its advantageous for 
meeting new people and making new 
friends.
Jeri Nagler AMS 83
Its all right if its taken with the right 
perspective. A lot of times, people are 
thrown out when they should be allowed 
to be involved.
Jo Ann Yokel Math '82
I like it. Its a sense of belonging to 
something, and I like that very much. Its 
a good system, I just dont like how they 
have to live in brick houses.
Pamela McKay Music 83
I think that the Greek system really 
lacks individuality. Youre working 
for the good of the house, and not for the 
good of the individual.
Aaron Tanzer MMS 82
A closer look at. . . Student Corporation
by Paul Karmin
One of the primary channels through 
which the Student Senate funds are disper
sed is the Student Corporation. It is the 
student-run, legally incorporated organiza
tion, with additional assets of its own, that 
operates on campus to better the lives of 
residents by providing various important 
services, such as Rent-A-Tech, the student
employment agency, and by assisting in the 
establishment of student-run businesses.
For example, their latest project is the 
planned opening of a T-shirt business, pos
sibly to be located in either one of the Mar
garet Morrison storefronts, or in the base
ment of Skibo. This undertaking will in
clude photo-silkscreening, as well as cus
tom designed T-shirts, and more convenMinority enrollment in law falls
The first law school classes to be fully 
processed under strictures of the U.S. Su
preme Courts June, 1978 Bakke decision 
seem to be a lot whiter than last years 
first-year students. 
A number of law schools have reported 
significant declines in the registration of 
minority first-year students. The number 
of Chicano law students at George Wash
ington University law school, for example, 
fell from nine to four this year. Harvard 
registered 88 minority students, as com
pared with 98 last year.
First-year law classes at Northeastern 
University, Berkeley, the University of 
Pennsylvania, and New York University, 
among others, include fewer minorities 
this year.
The major exceptions to the trend were 
the University of Chicago law school, 
where there are nearly twice as many black 
first-year students than last fall, at Stan
ford, and at the University of CaliforniaDavis, where minorities make up almost a 
quarter of the class.
It was at-Davis, of course, that Allen 
Bakke claimed that he had been denied ad
mission to medical school because pre
ferential  and discriminatory  treatment 
had been given minority students. The case 
went to the U.S. Supreme Court, which 
ruled that Davis quota system amounted 
to reverse discrimination. The court or
dered Bakke accepted at the med school. 
The ruling has had major impact on profes
sional schools admissions procedures.
Some law school administrators, how
ever, blame the decline in the number of 
black enrollees on simple competition, not 
on affirmative action programs allegedly
gutted by the Bakke decision.
Robert Staneck, assistant dean of ad
missions at George Washington, says, we 
admitted more minority-students than ever 
this year, but a lower percentage came to 
register. Penn admissions director Arnold 
J. Miller says that was just a case of law 
schools competing for fewer minority stu
dents.
There was an overall drop in the num
ber of minority applications to law schools, 
which means that Harvard has to search a 
little further, and dig a little. When they 
do, its a game of musical chairs, and it 
goes on down the list. Everybody else has 
to dig a little deeper, or get fewer en
rolled.
tional mass produced designs featuring 
campus organizations and insignias. Con
tract production of shirts for groups such 
as the fraternitites will also be available.
The present Student Corporation ad
ministration is composed of a seven person 
executive board headed by its president, 
Diane Jesion, Chem E senior, and its vice 
President Alice Huber, H&SS sophomore.
The Board also includes a paid staff mem
ber, a lawyer, and student Board members.
Currently the Student Corporation is 
looking confidently ahead as it plans an 
ever expanding range of projects in the 
near future. Among these is a one-price 
Spring Break trip to Bermuda or Florida. 
Student Corporation also hopes to be 
closely involved in utilizing the Margaret
=XX MX
Morrison basement storefronts.
As Ron Berstein, the supervisor of the 
T-shirt business put it, Total involvement 
is the key to success. And it is student in
put that is surely needed as the Student 
Corporation expands its sphere into new 
fields.
Students interested in taking part in any 
of the previously mentioned activitites or 
putting forth ideas of their own are invited 
to attend the informal beer and discussion 
meetings on Sundays at 8PM in Apt. B-5 
Doherty Apartments, near the intersection 
of Forbes and Beeler Streets. The 4:30 PM 
meetings in Room 33 Skibo on Thursdays 
are open to anyone interested. To get in 
touch by phone call 682-5482 or 578- 
4254.
MENWOMEN
Permanent Removal of Unwanted Hair 
CALL JANE GOLOMB MAIZLECH
Professional Electrologist 
(412) 687-3993
3347 Forbes Avenue 
Forbes-Oakland Building
Suite 100B 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
'gJ2BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBnBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBB!^5
H .' __
?ES
a??
B?a(9

Q
a?
SEMESTER IN SFIN
**only $2,189** Feb. 1--June 1. 1980 Beginner or advanced. Study Spanish in beautiful Seville, Spain. Earn 2 full
years college credit for about the same cost as a semester here.
FOR
EVERYONE
Come experience the Old World with us in 
Spain. Fulfill your college requirements and 
have the time of your life in a tropical climate.
Whether youre a beginner or advanced, 
youll learn Spanish much better than you 
could in a conventional setting. Standardized 
tests prove it. Spanish isnt all youll learn. 
Youll experience the culture, make lifetime 
Spanish friends, and see this part of the world.
Our enthusiastic alumni write and tell us 
their semester in Spain was the highlight of 
their college career. Call us collect. Well give 
you their names, addresses and phone numbers 
to contact for yourself.
Professor Barton Siebring, former Spanish 
professor at Calvin College for 10 years will lead the rigorous academic study.
Come with us Feb. 1-June 1, 1980. Round 
trip jet from Toronto, Canada, room, board 
and full tuition all for only $2.189. (Govern
ment loans and grants apply.
Live it! Youll learn more Spanish, and 
learn it better for about the same cost as sitting 
m a conventional classroom. We live in Spanish homes.
Dont miss this opportunity, space fills up 
fast. Call us collect at once for more detail 
Credits will be accepted by any college.
g SEMESTER IN SPAIN, 2442 East Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506
g Call (616) 942 - 2541 collect - - A program of Trinity Christian College

---------------------------------------------------

UFS UPDATE
We can do it better for $ .79 at the
BAKERY/DELI
CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST SPECIAL  MONDAY THRU FRIDAY
 v /
? ? ? OMELETTE BAR ? ? ?
Choice of 3 omelettes, Made to Order 
Kiltie Cafe' on Line 2 Weekdays Only
Try something new  YOGURT SUNDAES at
- \ *
SALADS PLUS Where the conscientious
eater dines
Food Service COUPON BOOKS are now on 
sale for the month of October, at a
10% Discount
WORK/STUDY JOBS
Apply Monday thru Friday 4:30 - 7:30 in the
Kiltie Cafe.
DIAL THE DINNER MENU X2131
Eat more for less at 
DINNERS UNLIMITED
With this special discount coupon
$ .50 OFF
At Dinners Unlimited 
(One coupon per person, per dinner) 
Must be presented with CMU I.D.
Offer Good Oct. 9 - Oct. 15
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

Join in the 
Homecoming festivities 
this weekend! 
Good luck CMU 
Tartans. See you 
at Tech field!
If you have an ad, announcement 
or any questions, the TARTAN 
Business Office hours are:
MONDAY
9:30  11:30 a.m.
TUESDAY
10:30  11:30 a.m. *
12:30 4:00 p.m.
THURSDAY
10:30 a.m.  12:30 p.m.
FRIDAY
10:00 11:00 a.m.
PHONE:
X2111, X2112, X2113
Get a TARTAN 
SUBSCRIPTION!
Only $10 per semester. 
Send name, address 
and check (payable 
to TARTAN) to 
SKIBO RM. 50

---------------------------------------------------

On the Cut. A recreation of the ancient Scottish games of strength and skill 
(including the caber toss, hammer throw, and sheaf toss) with campus com
petition following a demonstration by experts. Prizes will be awarded.
Torchlight Parade, 9:30 PM
From Morewood Gardens to the Intramural Field. As torchbearers lead the 
parade, the procession sings as they march to the IM Field for the lighting 
of the bonfire.
Bonfire/Pep Rally/Fireworks, 10:00 PM
On the IM Field. To get psycned for the BIG game, the cheerleaders, 
Kiltie Band, and football team will be on hand. There will be fireworks to 
cap off the evening.
A.B. Movie - GREASE, 6, 8,10, 12 PM
In DH 2210. A nostalgic look at the fifties starring john Travolta and Olivia 
Newton John.
NOTE: The Lambda Sigma Society will be selling mums for Homecoming. 
Advance orders may be placed in Dean Coxs office on the second floor of 
Warner Hall. Purchases may also be made the Saturday of Homecoming from 
Lambda Sigma on the Cut. Price: $2.00 each.
Highlander Games, 12:30 PMPre^Game Brunch, 11:30 AM
In the Kiltie Cafe. Finish your steak and eggs brunch early so you dont 
miss the parade.
Floats, 10:00 AM
In the Warner Hall parking lot. Cash prizes of $100.00 and $50.00 will 
accompany the first and second place trophies, respectively.
Parade of Classes, 1:30 PM
The Parade will travel up Forbes Avenue, onto Margaret Morrison, ending at 
Tech Stadium. Floats, the Kiltie Band, antique cars, cheerleaders, and the 
Homecoming Court combine to make this an event to see.
CMU vs. W& J, 2:00 PM
Come watch the Tartans, 1978 PAC Champs, stomp the Presidents in wha is 
sure to be an exciting game.
Halftime, 3:30 PM' 9
Watch the tension mount as this years Miss Varsity is announced. President 
Cyert will be on hand to crown Miss Varsity.
Dr. John C. Warner, 1950-1965 CMU President Emeritus, has been invited 
to serve as this years Honorary Homecoming Chairman and to present the 
Homecoming Court.
\Homecoming Dance, 9:00 PM
In the Ballroom. End this festive day with this special dance sponsored 
SDC. Live entertainment will be provided by the group Crystal Dawn.
S.D.C. Movie - Groove Tube, 6, 8, 10, 12 PM - 2210 Doherty Hall
PLAID 

---------------------------------------------------

The Scottish Highland tartan has been a part of Tech tradition since 
1905 when the charter class voted to adopt the customs of its founders 
Gaelic homeland. Today, wearers of the plaid carry the Carnegie tartan 
far and wide as both a reminder of the Scot whose heritage it represents, 
and a symbol of the Universitys own heritage of achievement during its 
first quarter-century of operation.
Join us in celebration of that heritage as we go Mad for Plaid in the 
gala sport and merriment of Homecoming 1979. All loyal Scots are called 
to return to their ancient clans in commemoration of the time-honored 
customs and myth, legend and lore of the land of Auld Sod. Gather with 
friends. Bedeck yourself in* tartan with pride. Plan to be part of the festi
vities of Homecoming 1979.
,SUNDAY, OCTOBER U ^
Blood, Sweat & Tears Concert, 8:00 PM. /
In the gym. Cap a perfect weekend as Michael Johnson opens for Blood, 
Sweat, and Tears. Price: CMU students - $4; Other college students - $5, 
General Admission - $6. Tickets may be purchased at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
Twelve girts haw beep nsorwnated by student organizations to run in tfiis 
year's Hfes Varsity corapetiikm. The entire campus wit liwe an opportuni
ty to seiect Miss Varsity aetd iter court, which witi consist of the first and 
seeocBd runner yps. The election:- will be held firr the fob by of Skibo on Wednesday. October 10, andThursday r October IT, from. 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM.
Thr 1919 Mess Varsity ieomsees are:
Tammy LTHfeweux 
MoHy McQosfcey 
Camai McKenzie 
Niamey HfcCieap 
Lisa Saunders
Arde&i Bardol: 
Marcia Beratt 
Qtfff Cossa 
Sherry Dfeatr. 
Kaffcfeen Farfey 
Cfteryi'foyaiIMary Arme SeppeE
Princes m the IVtiiss Varsity coewt to be e 
attendance are:
l^iarik Andrews IWory Breffwreer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-October 9, 1979
TARTAN 
news staff
meeting . 
today 
7 pm 
Skibo 50
No male homecoming candidates, says UNM
A University of New Mexico seniors 
hopes for momentary stardom were 
dashed last week when the UNM alumni 
committee decided men couldnt be 
included in this years homecoming queen 
contest.
Queen candidate Jim Myers says he 
didnt enter the contest to mock Home
coming, but to strengthen its traditions.
How can this selection process and 
eventual election representative of past 
and present students if approximately 
50 percent of the current population
is not even eligible for an application, 
he wondered to the Daily Lobo, the 
school paper.
Martin W. Fleck, Alumni Association 
president who in 1970 once crowed that 
hed immigrated west because the suits 
were double-breasted and so were the 
women, said Myers entry couldnt 
be processed because it came too late 
to change queen selection policy.
Myers bid is not the first by a man 
who wanted to fill the golden homecoming 
slipper.
Campus Interviewsi
TI Equipment Group
Match your degree to our multitude off openings.
(U.S. Citizenship required)
Electrical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Industrial Engineering 
Materials Science 
Engineering Physics 
Engineering Mechanics
Degrees
Optics (Engineering) 
Manufacturing Technology 
Process and Plastics 
Engineering 
Computer Science 
(Software/Hardware)
Engineering/Computer 
Software/Hardware
Microwave Development 
Field Test Support 
Logic Design
Optics Design - Thin Film Coating 
Environmental Design 
Space Telecommunications 
Infrared Reconnaissance 
Thin/Thick Film Design 
Fab Liaison Engineering 
Test Equipment Design 
NC Programming 
Systems Analysis 
Cryogenics-Heat Transfer 
Manufacturing Supervision 
Printed Wiring Board Engineering 
FAB Methods 
Signal Processing 
Production Contol
Functional Manufacturing Engineering 
Project Manufacturing 
Engineering Control 
Digital/Analog Circuit Design 
Thermal Analysis 
Mechanical Packaging 
Tool Design 
Antenna Design 
Laser Development
Openings
Radar Design 
Computer Software 
Assembly Methods 
Computer-aided Design 
Computer-aided Testing 
Aerodynamics 
Control Systems 
Applied Mechanics 
Quality and Reliability Assurance 
Manufacturing Information Systems 
Microprocessor Design 
Minicomputer Applications 
Mechancial Design 
Automated Test Equipment 
Manufacturing 
Project-oriented 
Manufacturing involving:
 Coordinating 
Manufacturing 
Schedule Commitments
 Cost-Control/Budget 
Development
 Use of Real-Time 
Computer Systems
Manufacturing Supervision 
Assembly Methods 
Fab Methods 
Tool Design 
NC Programming
Live in Dallas
The Southwest*s largest and liveliest metropolitan area.
Discover all the glitter and glamour, spectacular sport and high fashion Dallas is 
famous for  yet an economical place to make a home. Cost of living is way below 
the urban U.S. average. And theres no state income tax. The countrys 7th largest 
city has year-round sunshine plus lots of lakes and facilities to enjoy it. Dallas and 
surrounding area has 47 colleges, 50 hospitals. 2 major medical education and 
research institutions, and a wealth of major media and entertainment.
Interviewing on Campus 
October 25-26
If unable to interview at this time, send resume to: Ruth Lodowski/Texas Instru
ments/P O. Box 226015, M.S. 222/Dallas, Texas 75266.
Fonda Hyaespkoyea
INCORPORATED
An equal opportunity employer M/F
At Georgia Southern College last Janu
ary, Patrick Fetter, a 20-year-old senior, 
was elected queen over five women candi
dates. Fetter said he ran to complete a 
course requirement on sex roles, though 
that wasreally secondary. The main 
reason was to point out the absurdity 
of a situation where people would con
sider this homecoming queen so seriously 
that they would take physical and verbal 
action against me.
Non-traditional candidates are becoming 
traditional at other campuses, too. Stu
dents at Minot State College in North 
Dakota elected a 49-year-old grandmother 
last year by a three-to-one margin. Okla
homa A&M students elected a large red 
hog as homecoming queen several years 
ago.
NRC offers 
fellowships
Washington, D.C. - The National Re
search Council plans to award approx
imately -25 Postdoctoral Fellowships for 
Minorities in a new program designed to 
provide opportunuties for continued edu
cation and experience in research to 
Black Americans, Mexican Americans/Chicanos, Puerto Ricans, and Native 
Americans. Fellowship recipients will be se
lected from among scientists, engineers, 
and humanities scholars who show greatest 
promise of future achievement in academ
ic research and scholarship in higher edu
cation.
In this national competition supported by 
the Ford Foundation, citizens of the 
United States who are members of one of 
the designated minority groups, who are 
engaged in college or university teaching, 
and who hold doctoral degrees may apply 
for a fellowship award of one years dura
tion. New doctorate recipients who intend 
to pursue careers as college or university 
faculty members will also be considered.
Awards will be made in the areas of be
havioral and social sciences, life sciences, 
and for interdisciplinary progams of study. 
Awards will not be made in professions 
such as medicine, law, or social work, or 
in such areas as educational administration, 
curriculum supervision, or personnel and 
guidance. Tenure of fellowship provides 
postdoctoral research experience at an 
appropriate nonprofit institution of the 
Fellows choice, such as a research 
university, government laboratory, 
privately-sponsored nonprofit institute, or 
a center for advanced study such as the 
Center for Advanced Study in the 
Behavioral Sciences, Palo Alto, California; 
the Institute for Advanced Study, 
Princeton, New Jersey; the Institute for 
Research on Poverty of the University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin; the New
berry Library, Chicago, Illinois; and the 
Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, 
Washington, D.C.
The deadline date for the submission of 
applications is February 1, 1980. Further 
information and application materials may 
be obtained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council, 2101 
Constitution Avenue, Washington, DC. 
20418.

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT presents AIRPLA Y: student-performed radio drama
by John Hayden
WRCT in conjunction with Playwrights 
Workshop is producing a series of radio 
plays under the title of AIRPLAY. The 
series will run twice a month, with each 
program being broadcast on Saturdays at 
6:00 PM, and Tuesdays at 3:00 PM.
This weeks show is entitled, The 
Morning of the Day They Did It , by 
Russell Werthman. Adapted from a story 
by E.B. White; it was directed by James
Harvey and produced by Jon Hayden. The 
cast consists of Tami Bodenrader, Caroline 
Carrigan, Michael Cook, Patrick Dunster, 
Darroch Greer,. Ron King, and Carla 
Weinberg, as well as Mr. Hayden and Mr. 
Werthman. All are students in the De
partment of Drama. In addition, WRCTs 
Associate Program Director, Mark Andrews 
will engineer all of the programs.
Original scripts are now being accepted. 
Anyone interested should contact Jon 
Hayden at WRCT, 88.3 FM.
John Hayden runs over the 
production.
members from the first AIRPLAY
>.co-o.ea
Guest dance teachers instruct this fall
AIRPLAY performers prepare for rehearsal.
The Point Park College Department of 
Fine, Applied and Performing Arts is 
hosting two guests instructors for the fall 
term.
Velerie Camille is teaching modem jazz 
while Keith Allison is working with stu
dents in ballet, according to Nicolas Petrov, 
head of the departments dance division.
Its a special pleasure to welcome 
Velerie Camille and Keith Allison as guest 
instructors, Petrov said. They bring a 
wealth of experience and expertise to Point 
Park and will enable our students to ex*pand and improve their knowledge of 
different forms of dance.
c'5CL
O
ST0)
38
o*->o-Ca.
Keith Allison is a guest ballet teacher 
at Point Park this fall.
Velerie Camille is a former soloist with 
the San Francisco Ballet. A native of San 
Francisco, she studied dance at La Marie in 
New York City.
She has appeared in 15 musicals, in
cluding Land of the Pharoahs with Jack 
Hawkins and Joan Collins.
Velerie Camille currently resides in New 
York City, where she teaches dance and 
performs in off-Broadway productions. 
She is also a guest artist with The Mid-East 
Dance Group, a company that has per
formed in Carnegie Hall, The Lincoln 
Center and The John F. Kennedy Center 
for the Performing Arts.
Guest instructor Keith Allison trained 
in ballet character and tap under Edna 
McRae in Chicago. He then joined the 
Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and made 
two cross-country tours.
Allison studied with Bronislava Nijinska, 
Valentina Pereyaslavec and Aubrey 
Hutchens, then returned to Chicago to 
become a teacher. There he again worked 
and studied with Edna McRae, taking over 
her school when Miss McRae retired in 
1962.
He is co-founder of The Synthetic 
Theatre, a multi-media experimental 
dance company which began in 1968. 
During the next five years, Keith Allison 
served as the companys ballet master and 
choreographed and helped produced per
formances in The Synthetic Theatres 
own arena and other Chicago institutions.
In 1976, he returned to New York to 
join the Joffrey Ballet, where he had 
served as assistant to company founder 
Robert Joffrey.
Torme gives tasteful show
by Debbie Nir and Scott Schaffer
On Friday night, September 28, a sparse 
but enthusiastic crowd was treated to a 
tasteful and inspiring performance by vo
calist Milli Torme in the Skibo Ballroom. 
Torme showed the audience her ability to 
interpret a wide variety of styles as she per
formed cabaret, pop, and jazz influenced 
songs, all with equal emotion and charisma.
The TGIF concert, sponsored by the 
Activitities Board, consisted of two one 
hour sets. Despite the small crowd, Torme 
gave a full performance which included oc
casional jokes and audience involvement.
Unlike many cabaret and nightclub per
formers, Torme has a style of her own, but 
because of her theatrical motions on stage, 
she is slightly reminiscent of Priscilla Lopez 
(A Chorus Line) , or an early Barbra Strei
sand. Most of her sets consisted of songs
from Broadway shows, including the songs, 
I Think About You and Bewitched.
Many of the songs Torme performed 
reflected her personal beliefs. In the first 
set she sang songs about the ability to hang 
in when the going gets tough. During the 
second set she performed songs which were 
influenced by her Mexican-Cuban back
ground, including the Billy Joel song Rosa 
Lindas Eyes.
Her musical back-up was a competent 
four-piece band. The rhythm section was 
particularly unique, sporting a south paw 
bassist and a female drummer, both of 
whom performed impressively.
Torme has become a successful night
club artist on both coasts, and with an up
coming album scheduled for release in 
early 19.80, she could be headed for bigger 
and better things.
Velerie Camille (front,center) is a guest dance instructor at Point Park College this fall.
Irish music at the Music Hall
The Chieftans will perform at Carnegie Music Hall this Thursday at 8 PM.
The GaelicAthletic Association 
proudly presents the triumphant return of 
The Chieftains, the greatest exponents 
of traditional Irish music, appearing for 
one night only. They will be featured at 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland on Thurs
day, October 11, 1979, at 8:00 PM.
The Chieftains have been selected to 
play the welcoming music ,for the Papal
Mass in Phoenix Park, Dublin, on Septem
ber 29. They have just finished with the 
sccying of the music for the forth-coming 
movie Tristan and Iseult, which will star 
Richard Burton and NBC-TVs Mrs. 
Columbo, Kate Mulgrew. Tickets are 
available at the Blarney Stone Restaurant 
and at Kaufmanns Ticket Office at 
$10.00, $8.50 and $7.00.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TARTAN-October 9, 1979
Led Zeppelin's long overdue release is not worth the wait
by Alan Spero
I found that in reviewing Led Zeppelins 
newest release, In Through The Out Door,
I had to be careful not to let my own 
expectations of the long-overdue LP 
detract from my opinion of each individual 
cut. It was hard enough to accept that a 
band, even as prestigious, infuential and 
wealthy as Zeppelin, would wait three years 
to put out an album or even show their 
faces at a public concert.
After the release of the double-live 
soundtrack LP The Song Remains The 
Same, it was clearly time to reevaluate the 
direction the band was to take. The last 
studio LP, Presence, fairly well exhausted 
any leftover blues/rock territory not yet 
explored by the group.
Today, countless imitators continue to 
plod over ground coverd by Zeppelin 
years ago, while the guitarists of the socalled bands of the eighties, extract 
licks from Page and incorporate them into 
their own styles. But thats why Led 
Zeppelin is special, because of the guitar 
work of James Partick Page. The sound of 
the band was totally originating from in
side Pages head. One could hear examples 
of the Zeppelins sound forming in many 
of the tracks that Page had recorded years 
earlier with the Yardbirds, the father-group 
of Led Zeppelin. The quality of produc
tion, and the imagination and dexterity 
of his guitar work is consistent through
out the albums. However by the seventh 
album, Presence, Page was starting to re
tread previously mined melodies. Zep
pelin then release the film and the live 
album as they disappeared into the studio 
to work on a totally new type of sound.
During the first year Page reported, in 
an interview in Guitar Player magazine, 
that he was involved with a Roland guitar 
synthesizer and that John Paul Jones was 
expanding on keyboards. That was about 
all the hints he gave on new material. The 
tragic death of Robert Plants child led 
to rumors that Zeppelins lead singer was 
to quit the band. So after a year of ironing 
out personal problems ( Plant did not quit) 
they retreated to Sweden to finally start 
work on their ninth album.
After being out of the public spotlight 
for three years, their new album shipped 
platinum (1,000,000 copies) without the 
aid of any publicity. It was after the first 
shipment of records hit the stores that the 
tales of the multiple record jackets began 
to circulate. It seemed the Led had out
done the extravagance of their Physical 
Grafifti album work by having six different 
album cover designs available for the new 
disc. Adding to the mystery each album 
was immmediately sealed in plain brown 
wrapping paper to hide the covers so the 
purchaser would have no idea what if look
ed like without putting down the bucks.
The first thing I noticed about the
(left to right) John Paul Jones, Robert Plant, 
a three year period of non-production.
album was that it was put together like 
Presence, seven tracks, four on one side, 
three on the other. Also no picture of the 
band was on the cover, just a sepia-tinted 
photo of a run-down bar, with the focal 
point being a mysterious flame burning in 
the hands of a dark, expressionless man.
The first song, In The Evening, 
raised my hopes that his would be a great 
album. It wasn t a totally new direction, 
but it was everything that Page had prom
ised in the interview. The song starts with 
a synthesized sitar swirling through a thick, 
spacy backdrop of sound when suddenly 
Plants voice declares the title, and the 
song explodes with a dynamite riff remeniscent of Kashmir. Pages steely guitar 
crands out a string of killer leads and then 
the song suddenly shifts into a mellow, 
like transition where Page displays a vareity 
of his soloing styles. In The Evening 
is the perfect jamming song for Page, and 
is certainly the superior cut on the album. 
The song isnt extremely different, but 
it did raise my expectations for the remain
ing tracks.
I had anxieties about the next selection, 
South Bound Saurez, because it was the 
first original Zeppelin song that Page took 
no writing credits for; its a JonesPlant 
composition. The song turned out to a 
a mild reworking of Candy Store Rock 
(Presence) with Joness key boards sub
Jimmy Page, and John Bonham of Led Zeppelin: their newest release is unsatisfactory after
stituted for Pages guitar. I think that this 
pinpoints one of the main faults of the LP, 
that is, the lack of guitar work by Page 
on the album.
Page still does some nice soloing on 
every song, including the previously men
tioned track, but in searching for a new 
sound he seems to have delegated more 
responsibilities to the other members of 
the band (including executive producer 
Peter Grant, who co-wrote the last cut, 
Im Gonna Crawl). It is obvious that the 
melodic intensity and imagination of 
Page is lacking. This lack of imagination 
is brought out clearly on the ten and 
a half minute cut, Carouselambra, 
wherein Jones keyboard reworks the same 
riff to the point of monotony. Its a nice 
idea, but the song is just too long and 
neither Plants vocals nor Pages guitar do 
anything spectacular enough to rescue it. 
The same is true, only more so, for the 
weakest song on the album, Fool In The 
Rain. It starts out with a surprisingly 
pop riff, however the lead is worked to 
death. It is probably the most commercial 
song the band has ever released.
This is not to say that Zeppelin does not 
expand their musical horizons. All My 
Love, the other Jones-Plant compositon 
succeeds as a pretty ballad, with Page 
supplying delicate leads that weave in and 
out of Plants mellow vocals. Hot Dog
is sure to turn some heads; its an all-out 
knee-slapping, foot-stomping country jam. 
The final cut (the previoulsy mentioned 
Im Gonna Crawl) is a mellow blues 
number which allows Page the freedom to 
demonstrate his amazing guitar dexterity 
in a series of pin-point, machine gun like 
solos, but alas, far toq few for my taste.
Once again I come to the same conclu
sion. The album lack$ because of the lack 
of Pages guitar. The effort is there, the 
production is flawless, Jones keyboards are 
very adequate, Plants vocals are still 
strong, and the Jones-Bonham rhythm 
section has greatly expanded and im
proved with age.
Whats missing is the energetic nucleus 
to hold it together; the searing guitar work, 
the memorable solos, the wildly intense 
jams. These, to me. are the trademarks of 
the Led Zeppelin sound. Perhaps the 
allbum signifies that the group is in a 
new phase , or that they are still in the 
proceess of changing their sound. Maybe 
the record is just a tidbit while Page con
tinues to work on a larger, more impressive 
project. I think if the album, which is 
enjoyable, had come out within a year of 
Presence, it might have made a nice key
board companion piece to it. After waiting 
for three years for a new studio effort, I 
find this one unsatistactory.
The Zeppelin conquer Knebworth
vious Knebworth shows featuring groups 
such as the Rolling Stones, Pink Floyd, and 
Led Zeppelins first show, which sold out a 
week before. The crowd was completely 
under control, despite the lack or non-exis
tence of police at the concert. As the bowl 
shaped park filled up to its eventual 
150,000, at L 7.50 ($18.00) per ticket, one 
couldnt help but think about what things 
must have been like at the first Woodstock 
concert. The only differences were that 
Woodstock lasted three days, and Woodstock was organized behind the cause of 
ending the Vietnam War. The people at 
this show needed no cause to be there 
other than to see Led Zeppelin.
At 11:00 AM the concert started on 
time with an English duo called Chas and
continued on page 21
O *-> O -Ca
Jimmy Page and the Led Zeppelin are 
still one of the most powerful bands in 
rock and roll today.
by Mory Brenner
By the time we arrived at Knebworth 
Park, 30 miles north of London, there were 
already about 140,000 people seated and 
ready for Zeppelins second appearance 
in four years. Twelve of us who were 
studying at Oxford for the summer charNO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY
cMoix-^PCxm. cHaix <Styuiy
UNISEX HAIRSTYUNG 
SPECIALIZING IN COIORING 
AND PERMANENT WAVES 
SUPER HAIRCUTTING 
10* Discount w/Student ID 
1*31 MURRAY AVfNUE 
(nn* to Gvoff* Aiken') 
SQUIRREL HILL. PA. 15317 531 **00
Luckily, there was good weather on the 
day that counted. We found a nice spot to 
settle in for the next fourteen hours and 
began to observe our surroundings. Every 
thing seemed to be quite organized. The 
promoters knew what to expect after preDISCO CLASSES 
PARTIES DINNER - SHOWS 
ALL THIS 6 WEEKS - 32 HOURS 
"LESS THAN $1.00/HR." HOLIDAY HOUSE Enroll 241-2162 or 361-1386
tered a minibus and started our journey for 
Knebworth at about 8:30 AM. For some, 
the trek began as early as two days before 
the August 11th show, as the true Zeppelin 
freaks camped out to be assured of good 
seats.

---------------------------------------------------

Odtberi?TO79TARTANPage 21
150,000 see Led Zeppelin at Knebworth Park festival
continued from page 20
Dave. Their British humor provided some 
excellent entertainment, even for the 
American audience there. Between groups 
the crowd was prepared by being told In 
about nine more hours youll be hearing 
this!, as a recording of Whole Lotta y 
Love filled the park. Commander Cody 
came on next, with his American Hit Hot 
Rod Lincoln getting the best response. 
Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes 
finished off the first half of the day fea
turing I Dont Want To Go Home and 
Fever. Unfortunately, Southside and the 
English audience did not seem to appreci
ate each other. At one point Johnny asfced 
if anyone had been to a bar in the last 
vveek, which in America might have 
brought some reaction...only in England he 
should have asked if anyone had been to a 
pub. He sarcastically thanked the Britains 
for their warm beer as he left.
Todd Rungren and Utopia were proba
bly the best of the five backup bands, as he 
excited the crowd by playing Just One 
Victory, Real Man, some synthesized 
pieces and jumping around/ Next on the 
schedule was supposed to have been The 
Marshall Tucker Band, but they canceled 
out and were replaced by Keith Richard, 
Ron Wood and The New Barbarians. The 
band was almost two hours late in coming 
on stage and as the crowd got impatient 
some jested about Richard being too high 
to come out and play. After the long anti
cipation, the Barbarians were disappoint
ing. Their own material was not very im
pressive, and their renditions of Jumpin 
Jack Flash and Honky Tonk Women were 
weak without Jaggers vocals. Wood and 
Richard jammed to a blues tune for al
most a half hour, providing their best con
tribution to the days music.
Finally, Led Zeppelin made their grand 
appearance. The crowd went wild, as they 
began their show with The Song Remains 
The Same. For those way in the back, 
Zeppelin had a fifty foot high Advent tele
vision screen projecting closeup shots, par
ticularly of Plant and Page, throughout the 
concert. Somehow I wove through the 
maze of bodies and got within about a 
hundred yards of the stage, where I pro
ceeded to compact myself to fit into a two 
foot square area I had found. In moving up 
those four football fields, I quickly learned 
the English custom of throwing empty beer 
cans at those who block their view; further 
up I was told that the custom was to throw 
full cans.
Black Dog was played with silence from 
the group and while Plant sang, Page fol
lowed the words with his familiar guitar 
licks. Zeppelin continued with Nobodys 
Fault But Mine, Over The Hill And Far 
Away, Misty Mountain Hop, and Since Ive 
Been Loving You. After taking a break to 
introduce John Paul Jones, he proceded to 
begin an unbelievable solo, which led into a 
thirty version of No Quarter in which Page 
did some of his finest lead work, From 
there they went on to play Ten Years Gone
Chapter Two is entertaining
by David Sheward
I dont understand why some theatre
goers still think of Neil Simon as a pur
veyor of commercial pablum, or the theat
rical equivalent of Fred Silverman and 
Dino Dilaurentis. Such elitist attitudes 
had some justification when Simons 
creative output * consisted of amusing, 
well-structured but shallow domestic 
comedies in which the characters spoke to 
each other in one-liners. But now Simon 
has certainly gone beyond that. His latest 
works are sensitive, believable studies 
of characters caught up in an urban vortex 
of anxiety. One need only to look at the 
first segment of Plaza Suite, The Prisoner 
of Second Avenue, The Gingerbread Lady 
or Chapter Two, Simons most recent 
seriocomic straight plays, to see real, 
three dimentional people who take time to 
cry as well as to laugh at their complicated 
lives.
Chapter Two is Simons most autobio
graphical play. It deals with the emotional 
readjustments of a widower who suppos
edly had a perfect marriage and his hasty 
second marraige. (The situation parallels 
Simons marriage to actress Marsha Mason.) 
His second marriage almost breaks up be
cause the husband, George, doesnt want to 
forget his first wife and fears that if this 
subsequent match is happy he will be 
doing just that. The wife, Jenny, tries to 
understand, but George is resentful and 
lashes out at her in a rage of self-pity and 
guilt. This shows how far Simon has comeconsidering that an earlier Simon couple, 
Paul and Corrie Bradder,almost broke 
up because Paul refused to go barefoot in 
the park with Corrie.
Simon handles the transitions from 
comedy to drama deftly. The scene in 
which the newlyweds are returning from 
their honeymoon moves so subtly from 
comedy to drama that the change is not 
even noticeable.
There are some flaws, though. A subplot 
involving a clandestine extramartial affair 
between Georges brother and Jennys best 
friend is funny in places, but gets too much 
stagetime; it elongates an already lengthly 
evening.
The actors at Heinz Hall acquit them
selves marvelously. Dawn Wells plays 
Jenny. You may remember her as the 
eternal virgin, Mary Ann, on Gilligans
 continued on page 23
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
ALL THIS WEEK
SIGN UP AT
S E
I INFORMATION DESK !
I 1
^IIIIIIIIIIHIMttUUIIIIItlllllllllllllltllllllllllllltlllllllilllllllltlllllUIIMIHIIIIIIItllllllllllltlHlllllllllllllllllllllllllltlUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^
150,000 crammed into Knebworth Park in England on August 
the Led Zeppelin for the first time in four years.
11thsee
and Hot Dog, which is the most popular 
piece in Britain from the new album In 
Through the Out Door. Rain Song and 
Kashmir followed with a mirror ball-crea
ting a kaleidoscopic effect that dazzled the 
audience. During several of the songs, 
smoke from dry ice filled the stage and at 
times a strobe light would flash into the 
crowd. Trampled Underfoot, Sick Again, 
Achilles Last Stand and it was time for 
more special effects as a green laser pyra
mid formed around Page. Then after In 
The Evening, another song from the new 
album, they left with the ever popular 
Stairway To Heaven.
Naturally Zeppelin was called back, and 
they encored with Rock And Roll and 
Whole Lotta Love. The honest personalities 
of Page and Plant, who had been lit up to 
look flourescent all evening, came out 
during a section of Whole Lotta Love, the 
lyrics at one point in the song say This 
boy has reached the age of twenty four, 
hes not a baby any more. Instead Plant 
sang only This boy has reached the age of 
and stopped there to smile at Page
who smiles back in acknowledgement of 
the fact that they are all ten years older 
now then when the song was first recorded. 
Plant turned and smiled at the audience 
who understood why he never finished the 
line. Zeppelin left the stage but came back 
once more to play Heartbreaker as their 
final tune.
It was 3:30 AM when we arrived back at 
Oxford. Wed spent most of the afternoon 
eating cheese, drinking wine, and playing 
cards with groups such as Southside 
Johnny and Utopia as live background 
music. But even without that, it would 
have been well worth it just to have seen 
Led Zeppelin still prove that even after ten 
years, ihey are still one of the most 
powerful bands in rock and roll today, and 
continue to be legends in their own time.
Models wanted for 
haircutting classes. Register 
in person, Philip Pelusi. The 
Bank Center, downtown 1814 
Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill.
Free Jazz Concert
MANEIGE
a carousel of percussion, vibes, 
piano & strings
plus
hrLES MIMES ELECTRIQUES"
"two certifiable madmen from Quebec"
Part of
"Quebec Happening Week" 
in Pittsburgh
Thursday, Oct. 11 
8:30 p.m. 
Duquesne Union Ballroom
Quebec Film Festival 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday
vCff rgrAyi,i ONw cWCkf---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANOctober 9, 1979
On MusicMethany's Akkerman's releases display variety of jazz guitar
by Dave Kirby
Before we sink our teeth into this 
weeks products, there is a correction to be 
made concerning last weeks column. In 
reference to progressive bands that arent 
sinking into the cosmic quagmire, I men
tioned a band called Happy The Man. 
They released two LPs {Happy The Man 
and Crafty Hands), but according to Mr. 
Herb Stencil of WRCT, the group dis
banded this summer. Alas.
This week, I want to talk about two 
recently released jazz LPs, Pat Methenys 
New Chautauqua, and Jan Akkermans 
Live. They give the listener a pretty good 
idea of the wide variety of jazz guitar 
available on vinyl these days, though also 
pointing out the dangers of individualdominated records.
Pat Metheny is definitely one of the 
most orginal jazz musicians to emerge in 
the last few years. His influences seem to 
range from country to pop, and he cer
tainly isnt lacking in technical prowess. 
Hes got a lilting, relaxed style of playing 
that is capable of just carrying the listener 
away. He avoids distortion and dissonance, 
creating a sort of environmental sound. 
Last years release, Pat Metheny Group, 
presented him in a band context with 
Mark Egan, Dan Gottlieb and Lyle Mays. 
The alburn was bright and well-executed, 
with plenty of solos and few change-offs 
between Mays on keyboards and Methenj^'- 
on guitar.
Unfortunately, Pat Metheny seems to 
have been attracted by the idea of a solo 
record, as realized in New Chautauqua.
It just doesnt work. Methenys playing is 
intelligent and optimistic, but theres just 
too much here. He overdubs tracks of 
rhythm on top of tracks of rhythm, on top
of solo tracks, on top of bass tracks. If 
the record was intended to display 
Methenys ability to create a sort of tonal 
blanket with his guitars, he succeeds nicely. 
The trouble is theres precious little dy
namics or movement on this recording. 
The title track features a beautifully con
ceived acoustic rhythm track with a hop
ping electric solo over it. But it goes 
absolutely nowhere. After the first two 
minuties or so of the LPs first side, every
thing degenerates into the same formula, 
sometimes to the point where it sounds 
like Metheny himself doesnt know what to 
do with it. The LPs nice, but it really gets 
excessive in its own good idea. Metheny 
reminds me of a suspended diver; hes got 
grace and talent in mid-air, but theres 
no board and theres no water.
Jan Akkerman is a different story. 
Probably his best-known work, at least 
in this country, was guitaring for Focus. 
(Remember Hocus-Pocus...? Tijs Van 
Leer yodelled, Akkerman played guitar). 
His speedy solos and heavy handed 
chording made him just right for airplay. 
Not here, of course, but in Europe, where 
Focus was a much bigger deal. Akkerman 
was regarded in Europe the same way 
(almost) as Hendrix was regarded here. 
And for good reason.
After the splintering of Focus, 
Akkerman pursued a more jazz-oriented 
career, riding the waves of the fusion 
explosion. His latest LP was recorded at 
the 1978 Montreaux Jazz festival, and the 
compositions included herein are neither 
pretentious nor clumsy. His band, mostly 
other Scandanavians, neatly frame and 
compliment Akkermans sometime as
tounding guitar playing, providing neither 
token presence nor competitive spotlightPat Metheny overdubs too many guitar tracks on 
Chautauqua, creating a tonal blanket over the entire album.
his newest release. New
grabbing. The record represents all the 
best aspects of electric jazz, without over
indulging . in electronics or distortion 
effects. And, unlike a lot of electric jazz, 
its a record that wont bore most rockoriented listeners. Akkerman solos with
out flash or pretention, but he still re
presents himself as one of the most com
petent guitarists around. His style and his 
music are straightforward, and the live
atmosphere on the record adds to the 
excitement.
Perhaps Metheny should consider 
staying within a band format, like Akker
man; Manfred Eichers production glasses 
over his style and gives us a definite sense 
of overkill, whereas Richard Debois 
production of Akkermans LP gives us a 
neat, tight sound that portrays the guitarist 
as band member, not ego-tripper.
Chris DeBurgh's musical "crusade" falls short
=
by Scott Alburger
Chris DeBurghs latest album ,iCrusader, 
is an attempt at a crusading musical tour de 
force which unfortunately falls short of its 
noble expectations. De Burgh, aided by 
such notables as guitarist Ian Bairnson of 
Pilot and Andrew Powell, producer of the 
Alan Parsons Project, has created a record 
which seems so caught up in orchestration 
that it conflicts with the albums preva
lent simple melodies. This fault may not be 
Deburghs own, however, as many of the 
songs seem to be a bit over-produced by 
a slightly over-zealous Andrew Powell. The 
album, overall, is not without its apparent 
exceptions to this rule; several of the songs 
are both striking and beautiful.
De Burgji, a self-taught musician/song
writer, is inclined to write in the folk to 
mellow rock vein with his roots being in 
classical folk style. Musically, the album is
IIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIINIMiHHIMIIHHtUlllillHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHINIIIHIItlllllllltlllilllinillllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllUi
CLUB PICTURES 
ALL THIS WEEK
CHECK DATES AND TIMES, 
PAGES 5 & 6.
clean and precise with strong hooks such as 
the albums opening number, Carry On. 
Most of the songs seem to have been concieved with care, although I Had The 
Love In My Eyes appears to be a clone of 
Leo Sayers When I Need You (Leo 
Sayers producer was, you guessed it, 
Andrew Powell).
Chris De Burghs rhymes are predictable 
and fairly basic, but weave together to 
form a more lyrical whole. Most songs 
deal with a specific story or message. Al
most half of the songs on the album are 
love ballads while the others concern them
selves with such subjects as endangered 
species, myths, and religion. Consequently, 
the love ballad style of songwriting domi
nates the entire album and seems to influ
ence even the up-tempo numbers in one 
way or another. Even in the title cut,Cru
sader, the lyrical style seems to hinder the
0)
8C/5
o5>
3
>
H-o
V.
38
Flutist Jean-Pierre Rampal will perform o 
at the JCC in Oakland as part of the Yj2 
Music Society Recital Series. a
fast-paced portions of the song, making the 
whole piece much less effective. The songs 
drive is drowned in a flood of words. The 
song may succeed in terms of communica
ting an epic story, but the middle section is 
lacking and unconvincing which sadly erodes the songs more pleasant moments.
The album, as a whole, has its ups and 
downs. On the one hand, it is too orna
mented and unconvincingly slick; on the 
other, it is basically delicate and sincere. 
In spite of these contradictions, the album 
has a% relaxed, easy-listening feel for the 
most p art .Crusader may welj be a perfect 
album to hear while snuggling by a fire on 
a cold winter night, but if youre not 
snuggling by a fire on a cold winter night 
you may be dissapointed.
Recital at JCC
The internationally renowned Y music 
Society begins its 54th annual Recital 
Series on Wednesday, October 10 at 8:00 
PM at the Jewish Community Center in 
Oakland, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue.
A special student subscription fee of 
$21 is now available for the 1979-80 series 
which, in addition to Zelster, features 
pianist Alicia DeLarrocha, flutist JeanPierre Rampal, violinist Henryk Szeryng, 
the Beaux Arts Trio and young American 
artists cellist Richard Locker, pianist 
Kirsten Taylor and mezzo soprano Mimi 
Lerner.
To order tickets call the Y Music 
Society at the Jewish Community Center, 
621-6500.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562*0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
photo courtesy of ECM records

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1979TARTANPage 23
General Dynamics, a Fortune 100 company, 
will be visiting your campus this fall to talk to 
you about our broad range of high-technology 
programs at our 15 operating divisions 
throughout the United States.
At General Dynamics you will have the 
opportunity to work with top professionals on 
state-of-the-art projects like the F-16. Cruise 
missiles. Trident submarines. LNG tankers. 
Sparrow missiles. Digital telephone equipment 
and more. Plus, depending upon your
discipline, your career could start at one of our 
many locations shown above.
To find out more about high-technology 
opportunities with one of the high-technok>gy 
leaders in Telecommunications, Electronics, 
Data Products, Shipbuilding, Aerospace,Tactical 
Weaponry and other fields, contact your 
Placement Office. Or, send your resume to: 
Corporate Director, College Relations, 
GENERAL DYNAMICSCORPORATION,CNl9, 
Pierre Laclede Center, St. Louis, MO 63105.
OCTOBER 24
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Art exhibit Chapter Two
>.Q
continued from page 21
Island. Wells combines Mary Ann's perky 
and girlish vivacity and a womanly matur
ity, to make Jenny likeable. David Faulk
ner is appealing and sympathetic as George, 
Donald Gantry, as Georges brother Leo. is 
given the shows best monologue, a des
cription of Georges self-destructive atti
tude after his wifes death. He also has 
some of the shows better one-liners. He 
handles both tasks admirably. Kathleen 
Gaffney as Jennts best friend, Faye, is 
hilarious; she is particularly funny in a pan
tomimed wait for an erotic afternoon en
counter with Leo. She wears a ridiculously 
low-cut, tight, black negligee, puts Frank 
Sinatra on the stereo and squirts breathfreshener, all to a fine comic turn. And 
set designer William Ritman must be 
credited for his ingenuity in creating 
an environment where George and Jenny's 
apartment blend into each other.
Chapter Two is funny, sad, entertaining, 
and proof positive that Neil Simon is a 
playwright and not a hack comedy writer.
The cast of Chapter Two, Neil Simon's romantic comedy hit. Seated on 
the couch are Dawn Wells (Jennie) and David Faulkner (George) and stand
ing behind them are Donald Gantry (Leo) and Kathleen Gaffney (Faye).
OPPORTUNITIES
Paintings by Daniel K. Teis, chairman of 
the Department of Art at the Universtiy of 
Delaware, will be on exhibit at the Hewlet 
Gallery, CMU, from September 30 through 
October 19.
The show will include some 18 works 
by Teis, 10 of which are new and are being 
exhibited for the first time. Teis, who has 
held over 100 one-person shows across the 
. United States, will be present at the Hew
lett Gallery on Sunday, September 30th 
from 3 to 5 PM.
Presently, Teis works are in the public 
collections of the Philbrook Museum of 
Art, Tulsa, Oklahoma; the Pine Bluff Art 
Center, Pine Bluff Arkansas; the New Jer
sey Art Museum, Trenton, New Jersey; and 
the Springfield Musuem of Art.
The Hewlett Gallery, located in the lob
by of the College of Fine Arts is open to 
the public free of charge, Monday through 
Saturday from 10 AM to 4 PM and Sunday 
from 1 to 5 PM.
1EI Monte, CA
American Tlcommunications 
Corporation
2 Pomona, CA
Pomona Division
3 San Diego, CA
Convair Division 
Electronics Division 
DatagraphiX, Inc.
4 Fort Worth, TX
Fort Worth Division
Chicago, IL
Marblehead Lime Company 
Freeman United Coal Mining 
Company
Material Service CorporationLETS TALK
St. Louis, MO
General Dynamics 
Communications Company 
General Dynamics Corporation 
{Corporate Headquarters)
Data Systems Services 
(Home Office)
7 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Asbestos Corporation Limited
8 Quincy, MA and Charleston, SC
Quincy Shipbuilding Division
9 Groton, CT
Electric Boat Division
Tampa, FL
Stromberg-Carlson Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS PRESENTS 
HOMECOMING CONCERT 1979
* ' <m
BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS
i.  >
featuring
DAVID CLAYTON 
THOMAS
with special guest
MICHAEL JOHNSON
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 14 
8:00 PM*
CMU GYM
$4.00 with CMU student I.D. 
$5.00 with other college student I.D. 
$6.00 general public
tickets go on sale at Skibo Desk October 1
sponsored by Student Activities Fee
bF M d M M M M M M M M M M i i M M i M M i M M i M M M i M M M M M M M i M M M M M M M M MA /% ^ ^ A ^ ^ ^ A ^ A  4f^ ^ ^ ^ ^             ^ ^  ^ ^       ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1979-TARTAN-Page 25
Tartans overpower Bisons in fifth victory
by David Brandwene
Quarterback Bob Kennedy threw for 
two touchdowns and running back Bob 
Gasior ran for two more to lead the CMU 
Tartans to a 33-14 win over the Bethany 
College Bisons on Saturday. The victory 
enabled CMU to raise its overall record to 
5-0 and stay on top of the PAC with a 3-0 
league mark with 4 games remaining.
Bethany, coming off a 23-12 loss to 
Thiel last weekend, scored the first touch
down off the Tartan defense when Bison 
quarterback, Jeff Beer hit halfback, Jeff 
Severino on an 11 yard scoring pass with 4 
minutes remaining in the second quarter. 
The Tartan defense allowed a total of 221 
yards in the air but only 41 yards on the 
ground. CMU, the third ranked NCAA 
Division III team, has now outscored their 
opponents 156-17 in their 5 games.
In the first period, while the Bethany 
offense was being shut down, the Tartan
offense opened the scoring early when 
Kennedy hit tight-end, John Tucci on a 6- 
yard scoring strike. This capped off a 58- 
yard touchdown drive highlighted by a 41- 
yard bomb from Kennedy to tight-end, 
Greg Samsa. Samsa caught 4 Kennedy aer
ials for a game high of 93 yards.
The Tartans scored six more points 
early in the second quarter when Gasior 
plunged into the end-zone from a yard out. 
On the next possession, however, Gasior 
fumbled the ball on the Tartan 32-yard line 
which set up Bethanys first touchdown. 
The Bisons attempted a 32-yard field goal 
with one second left in the half, but the 
kick failed and the Tartans went into the 
locker room with a 13-7 lead.
CMU opened the third quarter scoring 
in the first two minutes of the half when 
Kennedy tossed a 66 yard scoring pass to 
wide receiver, Gary Drakulic. On Bethanys 
next possession, they failed to move the
UB, Joe Stark looks on from the ground as Perry Colosimo (no. 25) looks for running 
room.
Bob Kennedy (no. 12) dives for the first down as Gene Marcink (no. 43) watches.
Behind the "plaid curtain
ball effectively and were forced to punt. 
The Tartans fumbled the punt and Bethany 
recovered the ball on the CMU 15 yard 
line. Beer then threw for his second touch
down pass of the afternoon making the 
score 19-14.
Carnegie-Mellon again scored on Gasior 
1 yard plunge with 13 minutes left in the 
game. This score was set up by an in
terception at the Bethany 48 yard line by 
defensive back Brian Renner. On CMUs 
next possession, they were forced to punt; 
but a roughing the kicker penalty en
abled them to keep control qf the ball. 
Then, running back, Perry Colosipio broke 
through the Bison defensive line and fum
bled the ball. It was picked up ?by team
mate, Pete Recchia who scampered 20 
yards for the Tartans final touchdown.
CMtJ rolled to 451 yards in total of
fense including 165 yards passing from
Kennedy. Gasior led all rushers with 76 
yards, followed by Rick Leaman, Ken
nedy, and Colosimo, who had 73, 73, and 
27 yards, respectively. The Tartan defense 
intercepted five Bethany passes including 
two by safety, Gusty Sunseri. Also, the 
Tartan kicking game proved to be quite ef
fective as place kicker, Denny Postufka and 
punter, Gene Marcink (43 yard average) 
consistently booted the ball deep into Be
thany territory.
PAC NOTES: The Tartans will host 
W&J next week for the Homecoming ex
hibition. W&i dropped a close one to 
Hiram last Saturday by the score, 14-13.... 
Thiel blew past Allegheny, 28-7 in other 
PAC action.... Rumor has it that CMU will 
play its last regular season game against 
Thiel, under the lights at Three Rivers 
Stadium.
"Athlete of the week"
GREG SAMSA (no. 89) is hauled down by several Bethany defenders in Saturday's 
game. The 6' 210 lb. tight end caught 4 passes for a game high of 93 yards and delivered 
some key blocks to spark the Tartan offense. The TARTAN has named him this week's 
"Athlete of the week." ________________
'The Plaid Curtain " at rest. From left to right, Pat Mechas, Jery Richie, Kerry Bove, 
Rick Arturo, and Mark Demo.
by George Perles
After last years Stellar performance 
by CMUs defense, what can you do for 
an encore? Well, if last weeks NCAA Di
vision III statistics are any indication, the 
Tartans arent resting on last years laurels. 
CMU ranked first in scoring defense, sec
ond in total defense, and third in pass de
fense while allowing opponents a measly 
126 yards/game of total offense.
A big reason for this is the play of the 
defensive line. In CMUs defensive scheme, 
which is called multiple 50 or Oklahoma, 
there are five defensive linemen. Included 
are the nose guard, who plays opposite 
the opponents center, two tackles, who 
flank the nose guard and two ends, which 
are outside the tackles. Responsibilities can 
vary widely since there are in the neighborhood of sixty variations of the Oklahoma, 
including various stunts.
The nose guard must be extremely 
quick and hard-nosed, since they are often 
ourweighed 30-40 lbs by opposing offen
sive linemen. Drawing a double-team block 
is the main objetive of the nose guard, as 
this frees another Tartan to make the tack
le. The Tartans are fortunate enough to 
possess two outstanding nose guards in 
Kerry Bove and Rich Arturo.
Bove is a senior from North Catholic 
High School, where he earned Prep AllAmerican honors in football. This is his 
second year starting at CMU, and last year 
was named to the PAC first team. Bove was 
also the first player to be named to the 
TartanClub three weeks in a row. Memcontinued on page 26
Denny Postufka (no. 33) continued to boom his kickoffs into the end zone.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26-TARTAN-October 9, 1979
IRON CITY
SCHLITZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHUTZ MALT BALLANTiNE ALE MILLER UGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MIUERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK 
STROMS HEMEKEN LIGHTOne different 16 20 6 pk featured each week 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHTZ MALT STROH'S * ROLLING ROCK WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
-------------------- IMPORTS-----------------------
tcF lcS mtcIm. Hfg 
DNu|AE'' vs DNu|uu',
BASS ALE England 
OORT HANSA Germany 
SAM MIGUEL PtHlipines 
SPATENBRAU Gemwiy 
ST PAUL! GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL Czec* 
GU INESS STOUT lrelw>d 
DAS XX EQUIS Mexico 
WURZBURGER Gerrwy 
HARP LAGER Ireland
 LOWENBRAU Germany 
OKEEFE ALE Canade 
DINKEL ACKER Germwiy 
TECATE Mexico 
ISENBECK W Germeny 
IRYSTALL Italy 
MACKESON England
 KIRIN
 PERONI Italy
 RIGNES Norway 
BECKS Germeny 
HOFBRAU Germeny 
ZYWIEC Poland 
KRAKUS Poland 
SUPERIOR Mexico 
FOSI fcRS Australia 
HEINEKEN Hotend 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Germeny 
GOSSER Austria 
TANKARD London
 UNION W Germany 
PALE ALE London 
DINKEL Germany
 WARFTEINEL Germany
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH., PA 15213
"'Plaid curtain," cont.
continued from page 25
bership is based upon an outstandind grade 
in the coachs grading system, depending 
on the players game performance. Nick
named, Dr. Lust, Bove makes up for His 
lack of size with quickness, and is well 
known for his appreciation of good hitting 
and the finer points of the game.
Junior Rich Arturo is a Penn Hills 
product, where he was named to an AllConference team for football. Arturo, 
who once started as a freshman, alternates 
with Bove, and is extremely versatile, as 
evidenced by the fact that he is the first 
replacement for the other line positions. 
Arturo has been named to the Tartan Club 
once.
The defensive tackles main assignments 
are to shut off power runs, such as offtackle, as well as pass rush. Although great 
strength is imperative, the tackle must pos
The smile
says go ahead, 
challenge me.
It says strength,vitality, 
and the sureness of success. 
Its todays Republic Steel.
Were a vital, forward-looking company in an industry that goes to the heart of 
American life. For the men and women of Republic, challenges are frequent, 
sometimes unexpected, and demand all the imagination they have, and a 
little more.
One of the reasons for the vitality of Republic Steel is our commitment 
to excellence in management. We are not the largest steel company. But our 
continuing priority is to be the best managed. And this is a plus for you.
Because at Republic, weve refined the practice of management skills to a science.
You'll learn our sophisticated methods as you advance in your chosen field.
Entry-level management opportunities are open to all who qualify.
Equally, judged on merit alone. We would particularly like to talk to graduates 
in industrial, mechanical, metallurgical, electrical, and mining engineering, and 
in accounting, and computer sciences.
We d like you to meet todays Republic Steel. It has a vitality to match 
your own. See your Placement Officer for an interview when we visit your 
campus. Or write Supervisor, College Relations and Recruitment,
Department 406, Republic Steel Corporation, P.O. Box 6778, Cleveland OH 44101.
lEcpulilicsteel
An Equal Opportunity Employer
sess enough agility to handle the quarter
back on an option play. The Tartans who 
man these positions are Jerry Richie and 
Mike Fausti.
Richie, a senior from Non liampton, 
Pa., came to CMU with outstanding cre
dentials. A captain of his high school foot
ball team, he earned All-State Honorable 
Mention and Big 33 seletion, as well as 
being named to several league and county 
all-star teams. According to Coach Moe 
Smith, Richies biggest attribure is his
Mike Fausti, also a senior, is a first year 
starter. A graduate of Freedom Area High 
School, Mikes constant off season work 
in the weight room has payed off as he is 
the strongest Tartan on the defensive 
squad. At 61 and 2351bs, he is also the 
biggest, and gives CMU much needed size 
on the line.
The Tartans also employ two defensive 
ends, Ed and Wil, as they are labeled. Ed 
is the strong side end, lining up on which
ever side the opponent has the most 
receivers. The main responsibilities of Ed, 
filled by Mark Demo, is pass rush and 
outside containment. Demo has perfomed 
here extremely well, as evidenced by the 
face that he is a four year starter. His 
wxperience is a tremendous plus for CMU, 
as well as his reputation for being a big 
play man. Demo has made the Tartan Club 
once, and in the words of Coach Smith, 
 Mark is a pleasure to coach.
Besides the nose guard personel, the 
best athlete may be the wil end, played by 
Pat Mechas. Mechas is another graduate of 
the impressive Penn Hills football program. 
He is the leading tackier on the defensive 
line with 23, one more than Bove. Mechas, 
along with Richie, grades consistently high 
and has made the Tartan Club once. Coach 
Smith states, Pat is by far the best defen
sive end in the conference. If the team 
continues fo have good success, he and 
Kerry Bove could be candidates for honors 
other than all-conference.
Smith also remarked that, The depth 
of the live is one of the teams biggest im
provements. This enables us to use our de
fensive philosophy of keeping players 
fresh, without having the talent level drop 
much. Many of our reserves, such as ends 
Jim Gresh and Bucky Briceland, and 
tackles Jim Steinke and Joe Csonka play 
extensively, and several could undoubtably 
start for other conference teams. It should 
be very difficult for future opponents to 
run on us.
Much credit for the development of the 
line belongs to Coaches BUI Englert and 
Ray Tomb. Tomb, a dentisr from Bethel 
Park, is in his first year coaching at CMU, 
and handles the tackles and nose guard. 
He played under Coach Chuck Klausing 
for four years at I.U.P. Englert is entering 
his fifth year of service as a coach at CMU. 
A teammate of Tony Dorsett, Englert 
coached the offensive line for two years 
before moving, to his current position as 
coach of defensive ends.
With all this talent and know how, the 
defensive line should continue to dominate 
the opposition, spear heading the drive for 
another Tartan trip to post-season play.
desire to play the game. In his second year 
as a starter, Richie has accumulated 18 
tackles and assists, good for third best among line performers, and has made the 
Tartan Club once.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
o:Te ri5

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1979TARTANPage 27
GSIA cops Birdy tourney
A four-man team from GSIA won the Major league 6f 1M football: PIKA (defensecond annual E.J. Birdy Intramural Golf ding champions), The Haven and Coaches 
Tournament. John Wright of GSIA was All-Stars. PIKA slid by SAE in overtime 
the individual winner with a score of 69 on 14-7 and beat ATO 31-19. The Haven
the 18-hole Schenley course. This was stopped Beta 20-14 but was rained out
GSIAs second consecutive year as chamagainst ATO. Coaches All-Stars outran 
pions. Mr. Birdy appeared as advertised for Beta 33-26 and smashed SAE 38-6. The
an autograph and photo session. . PIKA - All-Stars showdown scheduled for
Three teams remain undefeated in the last Thursday was rained out also.
The Amos Tuck School 
of Business Administration
Dartmouth College  Hanover, N. H.
Men and women seeking 
EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT 
are invited to discuss the
TUCK MBA
with 
John Heywood 
Tuck '78 
Tuesday, October 9 
Career Services and Placement 
578-2064
sports and games, and handle any other 
problems that might arise. Dud as said he 
would like the board to consist of a 
cross-section of the campus residents, 
including members from fraternities, 
sororities, dormitories, and graduate stu
dents. Currently, these groups are repre
sented fairly well, - with the sororities 
as an exception. That brings us to the 
second area that needs improvement  
the participation of women in intramurals.
There are two leagues in the intramur
al system: an all-school league and a 
separate womens league. There are no 
rules which bar girls from taking part 
in intramurals. Even so, female partici
pation is low. Denise Ryan has taken a 
step in the right direction by becoming 
the first girl to serve as an officer on 
the board, yet Dudas is still not conttent with the situation. He commented 
that, wed like to have more girls partici
pate in both the sports and the governing 
activities. Girls, in the past, havent known 
enough about intramurals; they havent 
realized that they have opportunities
open to them. Were trying to change 
the image of a male-dominated IM sports 
program.
Although he is concentrating on getting 
women involved, Dudas is still concerned 
about overall participation. One of my 
concerns is that people dont know of 
all the intramural activities available 
to them. Were working to improve that 
this year. We rely on the TARTAN to get 
the word around about our various sports 
because its too hard and impractical 
to try to post notices telling about every 
activity we offer. Also, each sport has 
its own commissioner who should stir 
up interest in that sport. Ultimately 
though, Dudas feels that the responsibil
ity is on the student to get on a team, 
although Ill be happy to help anyone 
who is having difficulty in that respect. 
A final -but vitally important problem
that Dudas, and the entire IM Board, has
to deal with is the subject of violence in 
intramurals. According to Dudas, There 
is growing concern about the increased 
violence and unsportsmanlike incidents 
that have been taking place during the 
IM games. Unfortunately, this trend has 
been evident in the past few years. Pres
ently, the IM Board is trying to gener
ate a comprehensive policy to deal with 
these incidents. We want to control 
this problem from within the IM program 
so that the administration doesnt have 
to become incolved.
With these various problems in mind, 
Dudas was asked if the IM Board had 
set a specific goal. He said simply that 
my main goal is to have an enjoyable, 
smooth-running intramural program with 
high student participation. 
emu
THE ASCENT OF
AAM
This Tuts cUy 
Oct 9 IWrt-, Hall no
Fo u r "tk Film
THE HFdI)EN 
Theruhrem
( Matter)
?A t\t lists:
"Pro f. D. i'n
(MiV llur ^y)
Pr<4_ D.Devv^rtst' 
(Emjlt ik)
Ne*t Twfs day
Ott It
Hu Mus f C 
( HSfiktres
(Harn f
Bob Dudas optimistic as new IM board chairman
kqp eOO bNxcqNxkh$ '79 
5- vCwhc$kcAlcffNh $Ncl52 Ye. a15:2 'kWE WEc
NG*I.AAto*
GAMES
on the Cut 
Friday, October 12 
12:30 p m. - 4:30 p.m.
The Ancient Scottish Games include
obm5Y Feoo 
b5llm. Fb.ej 
oFeRm Feoo 
FPBAeYAj5. SlCfc Ch YcxCfcJ 
jm:BbF Fb.ej Ye. bm:BbF S2cxNh-WwCWkNhJ 
jm:BbF Fb.ej Ye. 2:oF5Rvm
Demonstrations of each game will be given by experts. Trophies 
will be awarded to the victors. Applications for Tug-of-War (teams 
of seven required) are available in the SARC/Alumni Office, 505 
Warner Hall. Registration for the remainder of the events will take 
place in the tent on the Cut.
by Tom Smith
Sports-minded students at CMU need 
not be told that Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity has an excellent intramural athletics 
lepartment. In fact, other schools have 
modeled their intramural programs after 
Durs. Furthermore, considering the en
thusiasm with which Bob Dudas, the 
president of the Intramural Board, ap
proaches his position, the IM program 
should continue to improve.
Dudas commented last week that al
though he is proud of the success of the 
program, he will readily admit that certain 
areas need improvement. He would like 
a larger, more active Intramural Board. 
To be active, a board member only 
has to attend two meetings each month. 
Dudas indicated that anyone who is in
terested enough could probably become 
a voting member simply by going to 
a meeting and showing their interest.
The purpose of the IM board is to 
discuss and vote on rule changes, make 
decisions concerning disciplinary action 
within the program, organize the various
SHEP MESSING, EAT YOUR HEART OUT : Bethany College's goalie makes a spectacu
lar save at the net to preserve a 1-0 victory over CMU. Once again CMU fought to a tie 
in regulation time, only to lose in double overtime. CMU faces W&J. Oct. 9. at W&J.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28TARTANOctober 9, 1979
IM update
Sport selection provides good reason to participate
by Leslie Weiser
Due to an extremely regrettable over
sight, there was no intramural report last 
week. Consequently, this week there is 
tons of news and a lot to get caught up on. 
Touch Football is well underway with ex
citing games being played all the time. 
League standings show Coaches-All-Stars 
and PIKA A-team tied for the first place 
spot in the major league. The intermediate 
league has four divisions, with Phi Kappa 
Theta in first place in the Green division, 
Kappa Sig number one in the Lambert divi
sion, Zoo and Raiders tied for the top spot 
in the Swann division, and its still a toss 
-up in the Ham division with five teams 
having even records. In the minor league 
the Keg Kickers are on top in the Wagner 
division, PIKA-B heads the Johnson divi
sion and Short & Curlies, Hirohitos Kamakazis and Off With Their Hands Again are 
all tied in the Thornton division. The touch 
football commissioner is Rocky Cerosimo 
and can be reached at x4613. A note to 
participating teams: please be sure to note
winning scores and check the IM bulletin 
board for make up and rescheduled game 
times. Teams for the women s league are 
still needed. It is not too late to sign up.
Regular season IM Tennis has ended 
and playoffs were scheduled to start 
yesterday. Check the IM bulletin board for 
the playoff schedule. The tennis commis
sioner , Terry Schladenhaufer, can be 
reached at 681-9836.
Fourteen golfers participated in the 
Golf tournament, held on Sunday, Septem
ber 30. The team champion was GSIA with 
a total score of 297, and the individual 
winner was John Wright from the GSIA 
team with a score of 69.
Co-Rec Volleyball got underway last 
week with a total of 25 teams participat
ing. The full game schedules are now out 
and should be picked up in the IM office 
Teams should be sure to note the game 
winner and the scores. Co-Rec commis
sioner is Mike Pochan and can be reached 
at 683-0372.
The date for the Cross-Country run has
IM violence probed
In response to recent incidents during 
intramural contests, the CMU Intramural 
Board has added to its constitution a spe
cial clause to deal specifically with un
sportsmanlike conduct of participants and 
fans. The clause, passed unanimously by 
the Board, reads as follows:
Section 6. Unsportsmanlike Conduct
a) Any player, coach, manager, 
fan, or person otherwise associ
ated with a team participating in 
an intramural sport who physical
ly assaults ,n official, player, 
coach, or manager of an opposing 
team during a game shall be held 
directly responsible to his team.
b) The team that is responsible 
for this unsportsmanlike conduct 
shall be appropriately penalized
during the game and shall be tem
porarily suspended from the 
league in that sport until appro
priate action can be taken by the 
IM Board. The officials shall de
termine which team or both shall 
be suspended.
c) The Intramural Board shall 
review the incident and shall 
mete out the punishment as they 
deem adequate, and in extreme 
cases, add additional punishment 
such as barring the team or organi
zation or particular individuals 
from participating in the intra
mural program.
d) For individual sports, the pen
alties for unsportsmanlike con
duct in thai sport snau be explicitely reviewed at the rules 
clinic.
PAC "player of the week"
o year ago, a resurgence witnin tne 
grid program at Thiel College, as firstyear head coach Wayne Petrarca attempted 
to return the Tomcats to their former 
exalted status which carried them to the 
Presidents Athletic Conference title in 
1972.
Playing no small role in that rebuilding 
effort was freshman tailback Ron 
Leuschen, who showed signs of brilliance 
en route to finishing second in the loop in 
scoring and fourth in rushing. And now, 
the promise of last year has blossomed into 
great expectations for 79.
In Thiels PAC-8 seasonopener a week 
ago, Leuschen emerged ,as the games top 
rusher versus John Carroll, picking up 85 
yards on 21 carries while scoring a pair of
Women's tennis
touchdowns and catching a two-point 
conversion pass. However, TC lost, 21-15. 
 This week though, Leuschen did one 
better as, once again, he led all rushers with 
105 yards on 20 carries while scoring 
another two TDs, This time though, TC 
bumped Bethany, 23-12, for its mitial 
circuit conquest for 79.
A former All-County standout at Eries 
McDowell High School, Leuschen, a 5-10, 
180,-pound speedster, has been named as 
the PAC-3 Player of the Week, following 
the loops second week of play.
A business administration major at 
Thiel, Leuschen was a second-team All 
PAC-8 selection in 78, after claiming 
Player of the Week honors once, and 
sharing it a second time.
Mullan leads champions
With seven of 12 matches still remain
ing, the CMU womens tennis squad, 
coached by Mark Bush, has already 
clinched the championship of the Penn 
Wood Conference (Section II). Led by last 
weeks TARTAN Athlete of the Week, 
Jennifer Mullan (Greensburg Salem), De
nise Ryan (Mt. Lebanon), and Jane Vaselenak (Uniontown), the Tartans defeated a 
tough St. Francis squad 5-0 last Sunday to 
capture the title. CMU is now 6-1.
Penn Wood Section II includes, CMU, 
St. Francis, Chatham, Seton Hill, Washigton and Jefferson, and Bethany.
Join the 
TARTAN 
sports staff
been set ! The race will be held on Thurs
day, October 18 on Flagstaff Hill. The 
starting time is 4:30 PM. A rain date has 
been set for Thursday, October 25. The 
length of the course is 1.9 miles. Everyone 
is welcome! Women are encouraged to 
enter, there will be a separate womens 
event.
Water Polo entries are due on October 
11. A water polo commissioner is still 
needed. Games will be played at 8:30 
and 9:15 PM. Anyone interested in being 
commissioner or forming a team should 
stop in the IM office, Room 104, Gym.
More Teams are needed for intramural 
Chess . Anyone interested should contact 
commissioner Bob Metz at x2240. Entries 
are due Thursday, October 11, at 4:30 PM. 
The entry date for Soccer has been post
poned until October 25. There will be a 
special womens league. A soccer commis
sioner is still needed.
Team Volleyball entries are due October 
18 at 4:30 PM. There will be a female only 
league. Check the IM bulletin board for
practice times. The team volleyball 
commissioner is Mike Pochan.
Raquetball entries are alsc ^ue October
11 at 4:30 PM. The commissioner is Joe 
Chaves and can be reached at 687-9647. 
Please check the IM bulletin board for 
practice times and playing 'schedules.
Entries fq.r Team Table Tennis are due 
Thursday, October 11, at 4:30 PM. the 
commissioner is Ken Bosch and can be 
contacted at 683-1242. Please check the 
IM bulletin board for playing schedules.
The sports coming up in November are 
Three-Person Volleyball,Darts and Back
gammon. Finally, there are not enough 
dorm representatives on the intramural 
board. Anyone interested in serving on the 
IM board should contact IM director 
Earl J. Birdy in the IM office, room 104, 
Gym.
Important Intramural Board Meeting 
Thursday, October 18 at 4:30 PM 
Room 104, Gym 
Please be sure to attend this meeting
IM bowling delayed
Due to successive Homecoming and Oct
ober break weekends, the start of the in
tramural bowling season has been post
poned until Saturday, October 27. There
fore, the deadline for submitting rosters 
has been extended to Thursday, October 
11. Official entry sheets may be obtained 
at and should be returned to the intra
mural office of the Gym,
As in previous years, all matches will be 
held on Saturday mornings at the Strand 
Bowling Lanes beginning promptly at
10:00 A.M. Official schedules and rules 
will be available at the Gym by October 
18. A registration fee payable to Strand 
Lanes will be specified at that time.
With several rosters already submit
ted, it would appear that this season will be 
a very competitive one. In addition to the 
team championship trophy, awards will 
be given forindividual high game and high 
series. Any questions concerning I.M. bowl
ing should be directed to the commission
er, Ed Novak-682-9580.
Brian Renner (No. 36) typifies the aggressive style of the CMU defense.Orienteering to begin
by Mark Bumiller
Orienteering is one of the newest com
petitive sports in the United States. It is a 
combination of cross-country running and 
land navigation with the aid of a topo
graphical map and compass. In competition 
the objective of the sport is to find a set 
of control markers and return to the finish 
line in the fastest time possible. Each com
petitor makes his or her way through a 
wilderness area to each marker by using a 
map and compass. The runners compete 
against nature, time and terrain relying on 
their speed, agility and skill. It is a sport 
involving thinking and concentration, as 
well as physical exertion.
This is not a sport that descriininates, 
either by sex or age. Each competitor runs 
only against members of their own sex, 
age group and previous experience. Every 
meet has a special course designed speci
fically for novices who have never before
read a topographical map or used a com
pass.
Orienteering is an old sport in Europe, 
where it has been around tor a halt a cent
ury. It is something of a national sport in 
Sweden, where it has been a compulsory 
subject in the elementary schools for over 
20 years. In 1963'a contest in that coun
try involved some 182,000 people, or 
about 5% of the entire population at 
that time.
Carnegie-Mellon has one of the oldest, 
and best, collegiate orienteering teams in 
the nation. On October 14 the club is 
sponsoring a home meet at nearby Frick 
Park. No experience in map reading or 
compass using is necessary to enter in this 
meet. Everything you need to know 
will be explained to you before the start. 
See the clubs section of this paper for 
more details.

---------------------------------------------------

Six stories, one plot:The Romance of Our Age is Technology.
|| Rendezvous 
In Spain.
Youre a software 
applications 
specialist.
When you picked 
this career, you 
never dreamed that one day youd 
rendezvous in Barcelona, Spain 
with two Navy destroyers.
But when your company is Texas 
Instruments and one of your cus
tomers is the U. S. Sixth Fleet, you 
learn to expect the unexpected.
The destroyers are equipped with 
Tl computers and they need new 
software fast. You come aboard and 
sail with the Fleet until your job is 
completed.
Not a bad assignment for a soft
ware specialist named Susie. Youre 
glad you got into technology.
The Incredible 
Talking Chip.
Youre an inte
grated circuit 
designer at Tl.
Youve helped 
find a way to make 
a chip talk, something no integrated 
circuit has ever done before.
First application: an electronic 
aid that helps children learn to spell. 
The worlds first talking textbook.
And that's just the beginning.
The talking chips potential is mindbending. Youre glad you got into 
technology.
| The Salesmans 
W/ Dream.
I iHVl You're a Tl sales & engineer. You've 
got what is prob
ably one of the 
most irresistible 
selling messages in the history of 
salesmanship.
It goes like this: Hold this TI-59 
Scientific Calculator in your hand. 
Now, lets compare it to the most 
popular computer of the 1950s  
the IBM 650.
The 650 weighed almost three 
tons, required five to 10 tons of air 
conditioning and 45 square feet of 
floor space^And it cost $200,000 
in 1955 money.
Now look at the TI-59 Calculator 
youre holding in the palm of your 
hand. It has a primary memory 
capacity more than double that of 
the 650. It performs its principal 
functions five to 10 times faster.
And it retails for under $300.
With a story like this, the hardest 
part of your job is holding onto your 
sample. Youre glad you got into 
technology.
The Joy Of 
Complication.
Youre in semi
conductor design 
at Tl. You love it 
when people at 
parties ask you 
what you do. You say, I make 
things complicated. (Pause.)
In fact, I got promoted recently for 
creating some major complications. 
What you mean (but seldom 
explain) is this: the more active 
element groups (AEGs) you can put
on a single chip of silicon, the more 
the average AEG cost goes down.
In short, you make things cheaper 
by making them more complicated.
Your work made it possible for a 
Tl consumer product that sold three 
years ago for about $70 to sell 
today for $14.95.
Your future looks wonderfully 
complicated. Youre at about 100,000 
AEGs per chip now and 1,000,000 
is in sight.
Youre glad you got into technology.
J|
Outsmarting 
Smog.
Youve always 
designed air
borne radars for 
Tl customers.
Now, all of a 
sudden you know your next radar 
design is going to stay at the airport. 
On the ground.
Its on the ground that traffic 
controllers at Los Angeles Inter
national Airport have a problem. 
They can see incoming and out
going airplanes on their radar just 
fine, so long as the airplanes are in 
the air.
But when the airplanes are on the 
ground touching down, taking-off, 
taxiing, parking they are some
times impossible to see and control. 
Ground smog obscures them.
You believe you have an answer 
to the smog problem. You dig out 
the plans for an airborne groundmapping radar you helped design. 
You adapt the design so the L. A. 
controllers can use it to see through 
smog. It works beautifully.
Today your smog-piercing radar 
is widely known as Airport Surface
Detection Equipment (ASDEj. It's 
standard equipment at L. A. Inter
national and at the airport in 
Geneva, Switzerland. Other airports 
with smog and snow problems are 
expected to have it soon.
Youre glad you're in technology.
Oil Sleuths 
International.
You're a geo
physicist. A good 
one. You could be 
with any of the big 
oil companies. But 
you wanted to get with a company 
whose specialty is the same as 
yours. Exploration.
Thats why youre at Tl, in 
Geophysical Service.
Tl explorer ships, Tl photo
geologic aircraft and Tl truckand 
tractor-mounted vibrator systems 
are working all over the world. 
Theyre finding oil. And theyre 
identifying areas where no oil 
exists, thereby saving huge fosses 
in drilling costs.
Also, Tls worldwide computer 
network and its Advanced Scientific 
Computer is making 3-D recording 
and processing possible. This ex
clusive exploration technique is the 
only practical way to unscramble 
no-record areas on land and sea.
Youre a happy sleuth. Youre in 
on the biggest hunt in history. And 
your team is out in front.
Youre glad you got into 
technology.
If youre not in technology yet, think it over. 
If you are in technology, talk to Texas Instruments.
Campus Interviews Oct. 25-26, Novi, Dec. 13-14
Send for the 34-page picture story 
of Tl people and places.
Write: George Berryman, Texas Instruments 
Corporate Staffing, P. O. Box 225474,
M. S. 67, Dept. CG, Dallas, Texas 75265
See what Tl is doing in:
 Microcomputers and microprocessors
 Semiconductor memories
 Linear semiconductor devices
 Microelectronic digital watches
 Calculators
 Minicomputers: hardware, software 
and systems featuring software 
compatibility with microprocessors
 Distributed computing systems
 Electronic data terminals
 Programmable control systems
 Data exchange systems
 Advanced Scientific Computers
 Digital seismic data acquisition 
systems
 Air traffic control radar and Discrete 
Address Beacon Systems
 Microwave landing systems
 Radar and infrared systems
 Guidance and controls for tactical missiles
 Worldwide geophysical services
 Clad metals for automotive trim, 
thermostats, and electrical contacts
 Interconnection products for elec
tronic telephone switching systems
 Temperature-sensitive controls for 
automobiles and appliances
 Keyboards for calculators and for 
many other products
O
Fonda Hyaespkoyea
INCORPORATED
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
Panasonic reel to reel tape recorder.
7" reel, 3 speeds. $125. Mike 578-4789. 
French Speaking Africans for 3 mo. Mgmt.
Prog. Univ. of Pgh. need housing Oct. thru 
Dec. in private family homes, sub-lets, stu
dents & staff shares. Can contribute up to 
$250/mo. Contact Juli or Nancy 624- 
4762.
$6 for 90 minutes. Sign-up for "Clubs"
Learning* experiment Experiment, across 
from Psychology Recpetion Office, Baker 
Hall. Evenings, weekend times available. 
Words from SAINT AVITAS:
"Oh, there ain't no life, nowhere!"-Jimi
clubs
On October 14, the CMU Orienteering
Club will sponsor a home meet. This meet 
is specifically designed as an introduction 
for newcomers. Brief instruction on all 
aspects of the sport will precede the start. 
For directions, details or transportation 
call Mark at 521-2734 or Greg at 621 - 
5236.
The Astronomy Club photographs will be
taken Tuesday, October 9th at4:20 PM 
in the Skibo Ballroom. All member^should 
assemble by 4:15 in order to get the names 
of those present.
Astronomy Club will meet Wednesday,
October 10th, at 8:00 PM on Flagstaff 
Hill in Schenley Park. Members should 
meet at 7:45 in Science Hall 7421 to get 
equipment. In case of douds and/or rain 
the meeting will be moved to the same 
time Thursday, October 11. Everyone is 
welcome. The CMU Astronomy Club is 
funded by Student Senate.
American Institute of Architects student 
chapter president will be here to meet with 
all architecture students to organize an 
AIA/ASC chapter at CMU, October 11, 
4:00 PM, Faculty Lounge, Fine Arts. 
The CMU campus ECKANKAR Discussion 
Group will be holding its first meeting of 
the semester on Monday evening, October 
15, at 8 PM in Skibo room 13. ECKAN
KAR is a way of life, an ancient spiritual 
path which gives the individual the op
portunity for fist-hand experience of God. 
The discussions are open to the entire 
campus community, and will be held 
every first and third Monday evenings. For 
more information call Jeff Pepper (661- 
6791).
The Students' Dormitory Council has esablished office hours. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
and find out more about SDC or to register 
a complaint about any aspect of life on 
campus. Hours are: Monday frorrr2:30 to 
3:30 PM, Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:00 PM 
and 6:00 to 7:00 PM, Thursday from 
12:30 to 1:30 PM and 6:30 to 7:30 PM, 
and Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 PM. Our 
office is in room 55 in Skibo, campus ex
tension 2114. Feel free to call or stop by. 
On Wednesdays any undergraduate dorm 
resident may come to the SDC meeting 
at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room. Hope to 
see you there.
Rent-A-Tech is a service provided by
Student Corporation that gives students 
the opportunity to obtain part-time 
employment or just make some extra 
money. Following is a list of some of the 
100 jobs currently available:
No. 7 - Do some drafting 
No. 14 - Be a security guard 
No. 26, 69 - Indoor painting 
No. 33 - Tutor physics 
No. 32 - Strip paint in famous 
professor's home 
No. 57 - Chem or BioChem 
lab assistants 
No. 61, 62 - Repair televisions 
No. 71 - VW needs to be repaired 
No! 75 - Be a storyteller
If you are interested in any of these jobs, 
or have a job you want done, contact 
Rent-A-Tech, Skibo 58. Phones: 682-
5482 or 578-3535. Jobs are also an
nounced at 1:00 PM, Mondays, Wednes
days, and Fridays on WRCT.
On Thursday, October 11, at 12 PM, 
there will be a meeting at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel for all students interested in planning 
the Hillel Auction.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will hold services and
dinneV on Friday, October 12, beginning at 
5:30 PM. at 315 S. Bellefield Ave. Reservations may be made by calling 621-8875. 
On Wednesday, October 10, from 6:30 to 
7:30 PM. B'nai B'rith Hillel's weekly dis
cussion group on Basic Judaism will meet. 
Tonight's topic will be ''Israel and Zion
ism." At 8 PM there will be a Hebrew 
Ulpan.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will hold a brunch on
Sunday, October 14, at 11 AM for Simchat 
Torah at the Hillel House, 131 Margaret 
Morrison St. There will be an open meet
ing of the CMU Hillel Club, and all CMU 
students are welcome.
On Monday, October 15, at 7 PM there will 
be a meeting at B'nai B'rith Hillel for all 
those interested in helping to plan a pro
gram or weekend on "Judaism & Femin
ism," "The Changing Jewish Family" or 
a related topic.
Attention!!! The Student Senate rules
committee meets every Thursday, at 6PM 
in Skibo room 38. All are welcome to 
attend.
general
"Oakland's World of Children Carnival," in
observation of the International Year of 
the Child, Saturday, October 20, 12 noon - 
6 PM, Pitt Student Union Ballroom, Forbes 
and Bigelow, Oakland. Exhibits by childserving agencies, games, songs stories, re
freshments. Donation $.50 to YMCA 
World Service. Sponsored by Pitt/Oakland 
YMCA.
The Arts in the Park series of fall classes,
sponsored by the City of Pittsburgh, will 
begin the week of October 22, 1979. 
Classes will meet for eight consecutive 
weeks at the Schenley Park Administra
tion Building, Schenley Park Ice Skating
Rink, Highland Park Farm House, and the 
King Center. Figure drawing and painting, 
calligraphy, batik, weaving, paper crafts, %and animation are just a few of the classes 
being offered.
In addition to our regularly scheduled 
classes, a special series of lectures about 
art history will be held at the King Center. 
These lectures are being co-sponsored 
with the University of Pittsburgh Depart
ment of Art.
Registration for the classes will be held 
during the week of October 15th. Anyone 
wishing to enroll in Arts in the Park classes 
must register in person at the site, time, 
and day of each class they wish to attend. 
Further information may be obtained by 
contacting the Department of Parks and 
Recreation at 255-2354.
Lunch: Lutheran University Center
4515 Forbes. Monday-Friday 11:30 to 
1:15 PM. Soup, sandwich or salad, dessert, 
beverage $1.25. Everyone welcome. 
Career Perspectives: Investment in to 
the Energy Future . . . What Will it Take? 
Maybe You. Program will be presented 
October 16 at 12 PM in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo.
official
Work Study Psychology Job. Two re
search assistants to run experiments, 
etc. Call for more information. 683- 
9197 or 578-2812
Work Study positions immediately avail
able in Career Services and Placement Of
fice, Room 19, Warner Hall. Apply in per
son or call extension 2064 or 2065.I
Clarence M. Zener, University Professor,
will speak to the Society of Physics Stu
dents on Wednesday, October 10, at 
3:30 PM in Science Hall 5419. The lecture 
is titled "The Role, of the Physicist in En
ergy Developement". Everyone is welcome.
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open 
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.* N f
Get the Dean's List edge over your class
mates. Come to the Academic Advisory 
Center (ACC) and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: resu
mes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Academic Advisory Center, on the 
first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped with 
a library of writing books, experienced and 
eager staff, and writing lessons on the com
puter. To top all this, we have prime office 
space with a scenic view of the Carnegie 
Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the AAC.
THIS ISSUE,..
; i. V'1DOSSIERmagazine
 scholarships
The deadline date for the submission of
applications for NSF Postdoctorial Fel
lowships is November 2, 1979. Further in
formation and application materials may * 
be obtained from the Fel wship Office, 
National Research Council, 2101 Consti
tution Avenue, Washington, DC 20418. 
The deadline date for the submission of 
applications for NSF Graduate Fellowships 
is November 29, 1979. Further informa
tion and application materials may be ob
tained from the Fellowship Office, 
National Research Council, 2101 Consti
tution Avenue, Washington, DC 20418. 
The deadline date for the submission of 
applications for NSF Minority Graduate 
Fellowships is November 29, 1979.
Further information and application ma
terials may be obtained from the Fellow
ship Office, National Research Council, 
2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, 
DC 20418.
The Pittsburg Youth Symphony Orch
estra, Victoria Bond, Music Director, 
'is pleased to announce its first Orchestral 
Composition Contest. The competition is 
open to composers resident in Pennsyl
vania, Ohio, and West Virginia, and to 
composition students enrolled in any 
accredited school, college, or conservatory 
in the tri-state area.
Scores of new works for full symphony 
may be submitted. Entries must be un
commissioned and unpublished, must never 
have been entered in any previous contest, 
nor been publicly performed. Maximum 
performance time is to be fifteen minutes.
Prizes to be awarded for the two win
ning manuscrepts are $1500 and $750 
respectively, and each work will be given 
its world premiere performance by the 
Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Orchestra in 
1981. Judges for the competition are 
nationally known.
Deadline for registration is February 1, 
1980. All scores must be submitted by May 
1, 1980, and winners will be announced on 
October 1, 1980. J
For the first time in it's three year history
the Natural World Photography Contest, 
sponsored by the Leonard S. Mudge 
Environmental Education Program at 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, will 
offer cash prizes for the four winning 
photographs. Entries are being accepted 
from now until October 30 in color print, 
35 mm color transparencies and black and 
white print categories. The Grand Prize 
Winner will be awarded a $200.00 cash 
prize, and First Place Winners in each 
category will receive $100.00 as well as 
Award Ribbons. In .addition, their 
photographs will be published in an 
issue of Carnegie Magazine. The juried 
contest focuses on the elements which 
make up the "natural world," be it an 
electrical storm in progress, the silhouette 
of winter trees or a close-up of an insect or 
animal. Potential contestants are en
couraged to call 622-3283 for contest in
formation, or to write for a brochure.
r. rr,> -T .
PREMIER OF
u, |..trrr ** ~... ,i .wiir,rREAD IT!!~ll i * *1 - Vi | W 'd R

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
October 14 at 8 PM.
The Miracle Worker on WIIC - Channel 
53 TV. '
music
October 14 
The Jacksons at the Civic Arena. 7:30 PM. 
Tickets :$7.50( $8.50, $9.50.
October 15
Little River Band at the Stanley Theatre. 
October 25-27
Liza in concert at the Stanley Theatre. Call 
800-223-1814 for tickets.
October 16
Foreigner at the Civic Arena. 7:30 PM. 
Tickets: $8.50. (Festival Floor).
October 20
Country Dance Gala at the Woodland Hall 
Playroom, Chatham College at 8 PM.
American and English country dances to 
the music of the Homegrown Dance Band 
led by Marshall Barron. All dances taught. 
Donation $2.50.
Country Dance Band Workshop from
10 AM to 4 PM in the Pitt Music Building,
room 132. Ensemble playing for country 
dance, medieval to modern, taught by 
Marshall Barron, reknowned country dance 
violinist and band leader. Call 781-1345 
for details.
October 21 and 28
Country Dance Society in the Pitt Stu
dent Union, lower level from 7 to 9 PM. 
All dances are taught. No partner is re
quired. Beginners are particularly wel
come the first hour.
sports
October 9 - Soccer vs. W&J(A) 4PM 
Volleyball triad vs. Chatham 
and CSC. 5PM (H)
October 10 -- Women's Tennis vs.
Robert Morris (H) 5PM 
Field Hockey vs. Chatham 
(H) 4:30PM.
October 11 - Women's Tennis vs. Chatham 
(H) 4:30PM.
Volleyball vs. Seton Hill (H) 
7PM .
October 13 - Cross Country vs. W&J (H)
2:45PM
Soccer vs. Gannon (A) 
1:30PM.
Football vs. W&J (Homecom
ing) 2PM.
Civic Arena Sports
October 10 -- Hockey, Pens. vs. Winnepeg 
7:30PM.
October 13 - Hockey, Pens vs.
Hartford 8PM.
October 14- A 5-Mile Marathon will be 
sponsorted by Carnegie 
Borough in conjunction 
with their Carnegie Days 
'79 Festivities. Entry fee is 
$1.00. For information, 
call 276-1414.
October 10 and November 16
Two workshops in the series, The Dyna
mics of a Successful Volunteer Program, 
have been set by the Pennsylvania State 
University at the Holiday House, Monroe
ville. Public Relations and Communication < 
for Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations 
will be taught October 10, Time Manage
ment on November 16. For more informa
tion call 462-6401.
October 12-13 at 8 PM.
The Zero Moving Dance Company of 
Philadelphia will perform at the Lion Walk 
Center, 420 North Craig Street, Oakland. 
Admission $2.
October 12 at 8 PM.
Movement Extravaganza of the Arts at the
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall, Fifth 
and Bigelow Avenues, Oakland. Tickets 
available at the Skibo desk for $1.00. 
October 16,8 9 PM; WRCT
John Eichmuller, Director of University 
Food Services, will appear on WRCT's pub
lic affairs program, "Profiles on Parade." 
He will be available to discuss the new ac
counting system, and food service in gener
al. Listeners will be invited to call in with 
questions.
October 17
The zany dance comedy group, Les Ballets 
Trockadero De Monte Carlo, returns to 
Heinz Hall for an 8 PM show. Ticket prices 
are $9, 8, 7. For more information call 
281-8185.
arts
October 9-14 
Forbes Street Gallery
A show featuring paintings and drawings 
by artists Fred Mershimer, Renee Stout, 
and Leslie Woods will be featured. The gal
lery, located on the corner of Forbes and 
Margaret Morrison, is open Tuesday 
through Sunday 12-4, and Tuesday, Wed
nesday and Thursday evenings from 7-9. 
Through October 28
PPA Galleries, 407 South Craig St., Oak
land.
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art and the Yugo
slav Sonsulate of Pittsburgh are sponsoring 
a contemporary graphic arts exhibit. Fif
teen internationally recognized Yugoslav 
artists will display their works. The show is 
free and open to the public and may be 
viewd during gallery hours: Tuesday-Satdav 10-5 PM,and Sunday 1 -5 PM.
Through October 19
The Hunt institute for Botanical 
Documentation will present God Created; 
Linnaeus Arranged, a collection of photo
graphic reproductions that depict the life 
and works of Linnaeus, the father of 
biology. The gallery is located in the Pent
house of the Hunt Libary and is open from
9 AM to 5 PM, Mondays through Fridays.
theater
October 18 thru 27
The CMU Department of Drama will pre
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead, a "theatre of the absurd" work by 
Tom Stoppard. For ticket information 
call the Box Office at 578-2407.
In the Studio Theatre this month:
October 9 at 4:30 and 8PM.
Suddenly Last Summer by Tennessee 
Williams.
Oct 15 at 8 PM, Oct 16 at 4:30 PM.
A night of three twenty-minute long plays. 
Oct. 22-25
Two Gentlemen of Verona, A comedy by 
William Shakespeare, directed by Casey 
Childs.
For more information on these and other 
CMU productions, call the box office at 
578-2407.
October 6 thru 28
The Lovelace Theatre will present The 
Puppet Proposition on Saturdays and 
Sundays. For ticket information, call 
361-4835.
October 12-14.
Golden Boy will be performed by the 
Ridge Avenue Theater Group on the cam
pus of Allegheny Community College. No 
admission charge. For times and more in
formation call 237-2622.
October 11 thru 28
The Point Dark Theatre Company will pre
sent A History of the American Film, a 
musical spoof by Christopher Durang, 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre 
Center. For ticket information, call 621 - 
4445.
Through November 4 
Mister Roberts 
Allegheny Theater
Don't miss the first production of Pitts
burgh Public Theatre's fifth season. For 
ticket and subscription information, call 
765-3400.
Through November 18
The Playhouse Jr. will present The Ghost 
of Mr. Penny in the Hamlet Street Theatre
(Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center). For 
ticket information, call 621-4445.
campus
October 12 at 3:30 PM in Baker Hall 
340-A.
Dr. Robert Zajone of the University of 
Michigan will speak on Affect and Cogni
tion in the Department of Psychology's 
Colloquim Series. Coffee will be served at 3 
PM in the Psychology Lounge, Baker 336D
homecoming events
lOctober 11 at 7,9,11 PM 
\Picnic at Hanging Rock in DH 2210
 Admission $.75 with CMU ID/$1 without
 At the turn of the century an English 
I girl's school goes on an annual picnic 
[for Valentine's Day. Mysteriously three of 
I the girls disappear without a trace at Hang
ing Rock. This film, based on a true hap
pening, is one you shouldn't miss. It un
ravels it's story with delicacy and a nagging 
suspense. From the director of the Last 
Wave.
October 12 at 6, 8, 10 and 12 PM 
Grease in DH 2210
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$-1.25 without 
Based on the Broadway play, Grease 
stars John Travolta, Olivia Newton-John,
October 9 at 7:30 PM in DH 2210.
"I he "Acsent of Man" series' 3rd presenta
tion, The Hidden Structure (Matter and 
Atoms) will be viewed. A panel discussion 
will follow. Free admission.
October 9 at 8PM, Carnegie Institute 
Lecture Hall.
Le Crime De Monsieur Lange will be 
shown. Filmed just before the arrival of 
the Front Populaire, and profoundly 
marked by social idealism, it is a defense of 
'3ne working class against capitalism. 
Admission is $1.50.
October 9 at 8 PM at 500 Sampsonia Way,
North Side.
Local film and video artist, Francis Lackey 
will be present to show and discuss his ani
mated structural works and 2-projector 
films. Presented at the Mattress Factory,I
Ltd., Admission $2.00.
October 13 at 6,8,10,12 PM.
Groove Tube in DH 2210.
SDC presents the zany film for $.50 with 
"JD, $1.00 without.Warning, be prepared to 
laugh?
October 14 at 7:30 PM, Carnegie Institute 
Lecture Hall. A Farewell to Arms by 
Ernest Hemingway will be presented. $1.50 
admission.
October 14 at 2 PM at the David Lawrence 
Hall, Pitt Campus.
The Seventh Continent by Dusan Vukotic. 
In this delightful fantasy, two youngsters 
create a magical paradise on an uninhibited 
island, where indifferent grownups are 
'^conspicuous by their abscence. Free admis
sion.
Pittsburgh Playhouse
Craft Avenue, Oakland.
This week's film repertory includes 
Tuesday .The Misfits, Wednesday, The 
Iceman Cometh, Thursday. The 
Lacemaker, Friday, The Inlaws, Saturday, 
Saturday Night Fever, Sunday, Born 
Yesterday; Monday, Staglag 17. Admission 
is $2.50, shows nightly at 7:30 and L:30 
PM.
ifVQED (channel 13) and WQEX (Channel 
16) Highlights
October 9 - 10PM - Who Killed Georgi 
Markov? (13)
October 10 - 8PM - Great Performances, 
The Dream (13)
9PM -- Baryshnikov at the 
White House (13)
10PM -- Masterpeice Theatre, 
Love for Lvdia (16)
October 12 9PM - Pennsylvania, What's 
Holding Back Development 
of PA Coal? (13)
10PM - Masterpiece Theatre, 
Love for Lydia (16)
October 13 6PM - .Evening at Symphony 
Seiji Ozawa leads the Boston 
Symphony in J. C. Bach's 
Sinfonia.
7PM -- Once Upon a Classic, 
Old Curiosity Shop
Available nowPenguins Hockey full (40 
games) and partial (20 
games) season tickets now 
on sale. For more infor
mation, call 434-8911. 
Spirit Soccer season tic
kets now on sale for Soc
cer beginning December 
7. Call 562-9510.
Duquesne Basketball tic
kets for their 13 game 
season at the Civic Arena. 
Call 434-656^
special
October 11 at 8 PM.
Carlow College, Kresge Theater.
Lee Thornton, CBS White House Corres
pondent will speak for the 'Women on 
Women Lecture Series.' Tickets available 
at the door for $2.50. For more informa
tion call 578-6092.
CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH. A farewell
champagne brunch will take place in the 
Faculty Dining Room in Skibo from
11 AM till 1 PM.
OX ROAST LUNCH. Lunch will take 
place at 11:30 AM to 2:30 PM on the 
Cut. Live entertainment will be furnished 
by CMU's Jazz Band.
PARADE OF CLASSES. The parade,
which includes all Alumni, will begin at 
1:30 PM on the Cut in front of Skibo.
FOOTBALL. The CMU Tartans play the 
Washington & Jefferson Presidents in the 
stadium at 2:00 PM. There will be a 
Fifth-Quarter Bar following the game in 
the Wherrett Room.
HOMECOMING DINNER DANCE. The
evening's festivities .begin at 7 PM on the 
17th floor of the William Penn Hotel with 
a cash bar reception.
ALUMNI COUNCIL MEETING. Linda 
Shorr, Director of Alumni Relations, will 
conduct this meeting at 9 AM in the 
Wherrett Room.
ANDREW CARNEGIE SOCIETY RE
CEPTION. Reception begins at 10:30 AM 
in the Faculty Lounge in Skibo.
PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. President 
Richard M. Cyert will make his State of the 
University speech at 10 AM in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo.
HOT AIR BALLOON. Rides will be avail
able on the cut in front of Warner Hall 
from 10 AM to 1 PM.
CAMPUS TOURS. Tours leave every 
fifteen minutes from the Skibo Patio 
beginning at 10 AM through 12:15 PM.

---------------------------------------------------

FIREWORKS
funded by activities fee
 ' %" W'.-'1'  -V,, J;v7/ /  ..  ' .  |-; '
October 12th
9:30 pm Torch Light Parade 10:00 pm Bonfire, Pep Rally, Fireworks
- begin at morewood - on the i.m. field
SARC

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

(iMmgo=RMO[i! I
CareerPerspectives
Investment Into The Energy Future. 
tWhat Will It Take? Maybe You.
THIS PROGRAM WILL BE PRESENTED BY RUSSELL C. MAXWELL 
OF GULF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMPANY ON October 16
oh 12 Noon ta hlm Wherrett Room IN Skibo.
MR. MAXWELL IS CURRENTLY INVOLVED WITH BUSINESS PLANNING, 
TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC FORECASTING, AND LONG TERM 
ENERGY PROJECTS AND DEVELOPMENTS.
ALL CMU STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE WELCOME AND ENCOURAGED 
TO ATTEND. TIME WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR QUESTIONS 
AND DISCUSSION.
11
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
II00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-4
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointments
D0SSIIER
We have a Dossier on you! We know what you 're thinking 
and doing. And were going to tell everyone. That's right! 
Once a month we v/ill bring you selected documents from 
your Dossier. Together we will explore your thoughts and
actions. We will look at things that you are doing here, and: * \others like you are doing all over the country. Maybe well 
be able to spot or predict trends. Maybe we"ll start some 
of our own. But mostly we want to give you a chance to 
take a look at yourself. We want to give you a chance to 
tell us what you think about things. And we want to show 
you how you are special and unique.
PAGES 3_
4,
Did ybu ever wonder why some 
people spend so much time 
throwing things around on the cut? 
Sue Borg decided to investigate the 
situation.
Bill Kapner explores the fate of 
intercity train travel in this country 
and how it affects you.
5:
6/
8:
9:
11:
Dave Land gives us a unique view of 
an afternoon walk in his short 
story The Perambulation.
Jeff Zaslow tells us some of the 
truths of the universe and how 
we can go about arriving at some of 
our own.
Andy Epstein discusses the natures 
of art and technology and how 
the gap can be bridged.
Fashion has a major influence on 
our lives whether we are conscious 
of it or not. Joan Livitski takes a 
look at this year'ilatest styles.
Lisa Amowitz and Louise Molnar
took a walk through Squirrel Hill
and decided to reveal some of their finds to us.
JXM FF
EDITOR: SUSAN BORG 
ART DIRECTOR-- TOM HART
ART STAFF:
Lisa Amowitz, Andy Epstein, Louise Molnar 
Linda Held, Anne Patterson, Tina Klem 
Allison Goodman Barry Debsky
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University 
TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right 
to edit or withhold from publication any copy it 
deems unfit for publication.
ALL RIGHTS RESER VED

---------------------------------------------------

TRENDS 
Nothing can replace the frisbee
by Susan Borg
As I was leaving Skibo a few weeks ago I couldn't 
help but notice a tall, wirey, red-headed guy throwing 
around something that looked like a boomerang. I 
watched as it left his hand and spun around seeming 
to stop and start in midair as it formed two or three 
wide circles and hovered to a stop in front of its owner.
NEAT!
Ive been walking by the cut a few times a day for 
more than two years now; and, I had never given any 
thought to why so many people spend so much time 
throwing things around. But this boomerang really 
captured my interest. I stood and watched for about 
five minutes until I finally decided to introduce myself 
and find out about this thing.
Red" Whittington's fascination with the boom
erang was obvious. He sat down and pulled out four 
or five different boomerangs from his small pack. 
Each groove, each angle, each scratch makes a 
difference in the flight pattern of that particular 
boomerang, he told me. Scientists have always been 
fascinated by boomerangs,'' he explained. It is the 
only mechanical device that uses four aerodynamic 
principles at once. The boomerang uses concepts 
that are used in aiplanes, gliders and bicycles. It is 
also an aerodynamic cousin to the Frisbee.
 If the boomerang is so amazing do you think it 
will take the place of the frisbee as the dominant 
flying object in the skies over the cut?" I asked 
suspecting that I had spotted a trend ending and a new 
one beginning.
No, Whittington answered confidently. The 
frisbee is here to stay.
"Why couldnt the boomerang become popular 
enough to at least rival the frisbee? I asked skeptic
ally.
There were two reasons, he explained. Firstly, the 
boomerang is not cooperative. Where the frisbee can 
be played with two or more people, the boomerang is 
a solitary hobby. This may be an advantage for some 
people sometimes; but, most people participate in 
and enjoy cooperative activities more often than 
solitary ones. The second reason is that boomerangs 
do not have the creative potential of frisbees.
Well then , I asked, how did you get so involved 
in boomerang throwing?
I've been into frisbee for more than five years and 
throwing a boomerang compliments my frisbee throw
ing, he explained.
At the same minute, I glanced down the length of 
the cut and saw another unidentified flying object. 
As I got closer it looked like half a beer can. When I 
looked really closely I saw that what would have been 
a jagged edge on a cut beer can was an almost unnoticeable lip. Its a Toobee, announced Henry 
Thorn, the obviously proud owner of this strange 
looking thing.
Did you make it? T. asked naively.
No. they're manufactured by a toy company.
You can get them for $3.
Where'd you find out about it?
I read about it in the New York Times. They ran 
an article on it because nobody can really explain the 
way it works. Ive always been into flying toys so I 
sent away for it. Aha, I thought, maybe I really have
spotted the end of the frisbee era" and the beginning 
of a new age.
Do you think the Toobee will catch on?
Oh, definatly. I think that in a year more people will 
have Toobees than. . . 
Frisbees?!" I interjected excitedly.
Nah-Toobees can never take the place of frisbees," 
he explained. But they are great if youre into fris
bees. You can learn some really good moves from 
throwing a toobee."
Why couldn't a toobee take the place of a fris
bee? I asked getting annoyed.
Frisbees are more creative than toobees. 
You have infinate ways of throwing and catching a 
frisbee. There are all kinds of games you can play; and 
frisbees are much more durable. This aluminum is 
delicate so you can only use a toobee for a limited 
time."
Photographs by Tom Hart
You seem to be much more of a frisbee enthusiast 
than a toobee freak. How often do you play with the 
toobee? I asked.
Well, tonight is really the first night I've spent 
any time at it.
Oh, I said disappointed. Well how often do you 
practice frisbee?
I play with the team for an hour and a half every 
afternoon.
Why do they do it? What is the attaction? I de
cided that I was going to try and find out.
The next day I went out to the cut during practice. 
I stood watching as about twenty-five people jumped 
and dove and made all kinds of crazy moves throwing 
and catching a frisbee. I guess it really does involve 
some creativity and imagination, I thought to myself.
I began talking to some of the team members.
Why frisbee? Why not throw a football or a base
ball, or anything else? I asked cynically.
Frisbee is beautiful art - - it plays with the wind," 
Marcus Wittich, a math major in transition to phil
osophy, said excitedly. When a football dreams 
it dreams it' a frisbee, he added.
Frisbee transcend alot, Wittich added. It seems 
to attract all kinds of people. There were engineers, 
scientists, philosophers and artists playing and watch
ing frisbee on the cut. I, a non-athlete with a lack of 
interest in anything even resembling a sport, felt 
myself getting excited while watching some of the
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

POLITICS
The sad fate of the American train
by Bill Kapner
This summer was the logical time for the govern
ment to maKe a big push for the train system. Instead, 
the Department of Transportation fought for and Con
gress tentatively approved a measure which would cut 
12, 000 miles from Amtrak s 1, 50u mile system. Amtrak is the government run train system which has has 
a history of poor service and even worse management. 
Since its inception eight years ago Amtrak has main
tained a succession of budget deficits and the Depart
ment of Transportation is trying to remedy the situa
tion by making an insufficient passenger rail system 
even mere insufficient, 'l'he proposed cutbacks may 
include the popular Washington to New Orleans 
Cresent and the New YorK to Montreal Montrealer. 
England, France, and Japan have railroad systems 
which are both widely used, highly efficient and 
heavily subsidized. Instead of cutting back Amtrak 
services, perhaps the D.O.T. and President Carter 
should look at these systems as models on which 
to base the Amtrak program..
In May, former D.O.T. secretary, Brock Adams 
insisted that the cutbacks in railroad track mileage 
would be constructive even though it would re
verse the increase in train ridership caused by this 
summer energy crunch. He pushed the measure in 
Congress thpugh only as a handy device for saving 
300 million dollars. When talking about the rail
road system Adams classified the various types of 
cars and services as either productive or unpro
ductive.'' In the category of unproductive, he placed 
sleeping cars, dining cars, porters and other traditional 
passenger amenities. It appeared, at first, to be a stroke 
of good fortune for advocates of rail travel when Carter 
fired Brock Adams and appointed former Portland 
mayor Neil Goldschmidt as his replacement. Gold
schmidt, though, has concentrated his efforts on urban 
mass transit and has paid little attention to inter city 
train service.
. . .Goldschmidt has paid 
little attention 
to inter city transit. .
Train travel would be a desireable method of trans
portation for C.M.U. students who travel long distances 
to get home. A train trip from Pittsburgh to New York 
should take no more than eight hours and many excur
sion fares are less than half the price ot an airline tic
ket. From the Amtrak station in Downtown 
however, the two trains from Penn Station leave at 
3:30 AM and 4:30 aM. In addition to the absurdity of 
these departure hours, the trains often run up to three 
hours late. a scheduled 2:^0 AM departure to 30th 
Street statioi - hiladelphia last July, l waited until 
b:0u AM only to learn that instead of the express to 
Philadelphia, the tram would make local stops. After 
stopping in Harrisburg, Reading and Norristown the 
train did not arrive in Philadelphia until 6 oclock the 
following evening.
. . .the simple fact 
remains that people 
like train travel. . .
Perhaps AmtraK's problems are best exemplified by 
the plight of the Metroliner. During AmtraKs first few 
years, the Metroliner, which ran from Baltimore to 
Boston along the countrys Northeast corridor, was a 
fast, efficient and comfortable passenger train. Since 
then, the cars on this line have been inadequately 
maintained and much of the equipment has deterio
rated into what Amtrak President Alan Boyd phrased 
 as lots of junk The route was ideal for businessmen 
who had to travel regularly between these large metro
politan areas and most of the passenger space was 
usually booked. Early last year, however, Amtrak cut 
out the Boston to New York portion of the Metroliner 
and reduced the number of cars on the remainder New 
York to Baltimore segment.
Even if the Department of Transportation chooses 
to disregard tne practical benefits of a well run rail 
system, the simple fact remains that people like tram 
travel. Traditionally, trains have inspired novelists, 
poets, and songwriters. In the days of the pullman s 
sleepers, formal dining areas and parlor car poker 
games, tra' is in "ot of character. Although, most of 
the earlier color is gone, there is still a certain human 
element in train travel that appeals to many people. 
There is a sense ot camaraderie among passengers of 
the same car or compartment. A triend told me about 
his train trip from Chicago to Pittsburgh late last
month. He began talking about football with a man 
sitting next to him. Shortly there were six people 
involved in the conversation. My friend began to brag 
about the Steelers and bets were made on the following 
weeks game and addresses were exchanged. He won 
the bet and within the next two weeks he received five 
checks with notes attached.
Train travel is by far the safest mode of transporta
tion. In 1977 there were 34, 34y deaths from automo
biles, 654 deaths from domestic airlines and 29 from 
intercity buses. There was not a single death on an
. . .much of the 
equipment has 
deteriorated into 
lots of junk . . .
Amtrak train. In addition, train stations are invariably 
located in the center of metropolitan areas. Airports, 
on the other hand, are otten in the suburbs or outlying 
rural areas and transportation into the center city 
causes difficulty.
The advantages ot rail travel over other means of 
transportation are numerous. This nation will need rail
roads to provide mobility in a future of diminishing 
energy reserves and it is only the shortsightedness of 
our government leaders which will keep us from takina 
advantage of a well run railway system.

---------------------------------------------------

FICTION5.
The Perambulation
by David Land
A particle of light left the surface of the sun, travI veiled undisturbed the entire ninety-three million miles 
I to the earth, graced by a telephone pole, and finally 
I passed through the screen in the window above Keith 
I Terry's bed. That particle was the first which entered 
I his eye that August day. The chorus of dog barks 
I which each morning followed the paperboy through 
I the neighborhood was about a block away now, and 
I that would give Keith just enough time to throw on 
I a pair cf jeans and meet him at the door. He was going 
I to make the most of his remaining two weeks of sumI mer, before Debbie returned to Georgetown and Keith 
had to start back to school himself. The two of them 
had planned a walk around her neighborhood that 
afternoon.
As he had guessed, the paperboy arrived at the door 
just as he reached the bottom of the stairs. The comics 
seemed particularly funny to him this morning, and 
the air seemed especially fresh. It was going to be one 
I of those rare and pleasurable days when all his senses 
would be almost too aware-the kind of day which 
alway marked the transition between the summer and 
the new semester at school Perhaps it was the antici
pation of the new year which had this effect, or maybe 
I it was that the change offered him an opportunity to 
change himself a little to clean up any of his minor 
character flaws which he always worried about, yet 
never bothered to really do anything about. That 
would be a good thing to talk over with Debbie. As 
he mused thus, the phone rang, interrrupting not only 
his chain of thought, not only his bowl of Frosted 
Mini-Wheats, but it dared to interrupt his reading of 
Beetle Bailey. He guessed it was she, so in mock fury, 
he lifted the receiver and demanded that this vile in
fidel apologize for her impudence.
The saleswoman from Drabik's Home Remodeling 
was rather confused, but politely begged his pardon 
and hung up. An embarrassed Keith returned to his 
now-soggy cereal. By the time he finished, it was al
most 9:00. He'd take a quick run, he thought, and then 
call Deb and head over to see her. Lacing his Nikes 
tight, Keith practiced his Bruce Jenner-like warm-ups, 
and bolted out the front door onto Tyberna Street. 
The pavement already shimmered where morning 
heat fought with the remaining nights chill. Once around the block would be sufficient today, for he 
planned to walk over to Debbies, and then around her 
neighborhood with her. Though nothing exciting ever 
happened, and despite the pain in his legs and lungs 
after a long run, Keith loved these minutes of solitude. 
He rarely spoke to anyone as he ran, and had earned 
the reputation of a "serious runner because of this, 
even though it had nothing to do with running or con
centration. If he sat at home, either the phone would 
ring, or someone would come to the door and break 
the mood-only when he ran was he completely on his 
own.
Today, however, was different. He waved at passing 
motorists, talked to neighbors, and even stopped to 
scratch Mrs. Seamon's dog. He really didnt give a 
damn about the dog, but he stayed in the hope that 
Mrs. Seamon's daughter, Janice, woukl oome out to 
say Hi!" Having wasted more time with Cin-cin than 
he had planned, with no sign of Janice, Keith said 
good-bye and sprinted home.
Debbie was waiting for the call, and picked up the 
phone after just one ring.
Howdy!, he greeted her, and she replied Youre 
late, buddy.
Im sorry, but I was running, and I guess I sorta 
got carried away petting some old ladys dog, and 
thenDont worry, I wont castrate you-when are you 
coming over?
Right now-in about fifteen minutes Ill be there, 
I guess, Im walking.
Did the old VW die again?
No, nothing that disastrous, I just feel like  after 
all, in less than fourteen days, well both be spending 
all our time on our dead rear ends in lectures, or on our 
backs passed out on the weekends, or trying to get 
some sleep even though someones stereo is booming
away, orSometimes you talk too much.
Im sorrAnd you apologize too much.
And you, my dear, complain too much!"
See you in fifteen minutes.
When he got there, Mrs. Peppivac was in the front 
yard pulling weeds.
Is Debbie ready yet? I dont expect so . . .
Debbie replied for her mother. That was a male 
chauvinist thing to say!"
Well considering your recent performance 
lets see ... . There was last Thursday, a week before 
that, and, ahh, the first of the month. Do you realize 
that I still have not seen the first ten minutes of Man
hattan? Weve been to see that thing three times now, 
and I still have yet to see the beginning.
O.K., youve made your point.
After sitting on the porch sipping iced tea with her 
mother for a while, Keith and Debbie headed out onto 
the warm Bridgemont Streets. It was still before noon, 
and the day had turned out gloriously. It was warm, 
though not oppressive, and Debbie and Keith walked 
quickly along Dover Avenue towards the High School. 
It seems like it was about ten years, doesnt it? 
What?
Since we walked out of that place.
God, yeah-we sure have done some growing up 
in the few years it really has been, dont you think, 
Keith?
Yup. Its like we were two completely different 
people then. The kinds of stuff that we worried about 
then seems so juvenile-like getting a date, zits, and 
cars-that kid stuff.
I got news for you, kid. Thats exactly what we 
worry about now, only we worry better. Weve learned 
not to panic over them, and thats about the only dif
ference.
Damn it, Deb, sometimes you know me better 
than I do, and thats scary. Im sure glad were friends, 
not enemies-or worse-boyfriend and girlfriend. 
Why do you say that?
Because in either case, youd have the goods on
_ f t me.
They walked on, in and out of the dense shade of 
the trees along Barkely Street. The dozen oaks provid
ed cool oases of the nights air, and the spaces between 
warmed the two as they proceeded, side by side 
through the city streets.
You know, Deb, I was thinking this morning at j 
breakfast . . . did you ever notice how many little 
things there are about you that youd like to change, 
but never get around to changing them?| 
I get that feeling every time something which I al 
ways thought to be constant is upset  like when m>| 
Grandfather died, or when we moved. Its like when 
ever something which you considered to be totally I 
permanent changes, you suddenly see your own self as I 
less fixed. Then you decide on some things to change I 
and you really make an effort to change, but you get! 
caught up in the day-to-day crap, and pretty soon] 
youre right back where you started.
It does get a little depressing sometimes. There are 
some things I'd like to change," he said, "but for the| 
most part, I'm pretty happy with myself."
I'm glad to hear that, because for a while there, it! 
looked like you were sliding into one of your dark! 
moods, when its all anyone can do to get you to ack-| 
knowledge that you are a person.
I never thought I was that bad. I know I get down I 
on myself now and then, but-then again, you do have] 
a point. At any rate, today I woke up right or some
thing, because I feel like I could handle my entire life j 
today."
That's funny. I woke up feeling really good today] 
myself. Im happy with my life. I hope it continues the j 
way it seems to be shaping up."
Then alls right with the world, as far as concerns| 
Keith Terry and Debbie Pepivac.
For now. I hate to cast shadows, but Im always 
afraid of that force we talked about before which I 
makes you fail to accomplish those reforms you try so | 
hard to do. You know that the worst fate to me would 
be to wind up a typical housewife. For some reason, I always think that Ill be so busy trying not to be one j
that I wont notice that I am becoming one alter all. j 
Does that make any sense to you?

---------------------------------------------------

ITRENDSRPNOLC he
A Guide to the rambling brain
by Jeff Zaslow
Theres nothing wrong with mental masturbation, 
ie., playing with ones own mind for the purposes 
of self-satisfaction.
Go ahead, run your fingers through your hair and 
start thinking. Massage your forehead. Reason out 
your past, your future, your social security number. 
Think about all the people who never meant garbage 
to you. Reminisce about all the people who did mean 
garbage to you.
Try to picture what suburbia will be like in a 
couple of decades. Use your brain cells... meditate... 
concentrate... coagulate.
Try to put together a package plan for your exis
tence. Think about stuff you never thought about 
before. Define stuff. No wonder you never thought 
about it before.
Take a step into the world youre thinking about. 
Open up your brain like a cantaloupe and see whats 
inside. Its important to understand who you are, 
what you are, and why its a good idea to take nothing, 
except your mother, seriously.
There are a zillion truths to the universe. Here are 
a couple dozen of them.__________________________
THINGS THAT GO WRONG WHEN YOU HAVE A 
CRUSH ON A GUY/GIRL
1) The person of your dreams has a stand-up routine 
of very funny jokes about you. The jokes cover a 
whole range of situations and characteristics - your 
looks, your mother, your voice, your relationship with 
little animals, etc.
2) The person of your dreams is always walking the 
other way on campus when you bump into him/her. 
So you cant walk with him/her, because it would ap
pear silly if you turned around. (Example: Walking 
back from class, you meet your crushee. You make an 
about-face to walk in the crushees direction and 
he/she turns to you and says, Hey, theres so-and-so, 
I'm madly in love with her/him."
3)The person of your dreams has sex with your 
roomate.
4) You get the courage to ask the person of your 
dreams out on a date and he/she says, Gee, I'd like to, 
but my father is draining the cesspool in our backyard 
this weekend, and I'd really like to watch."
5) The person of your dreams convinces you that you 
have no right to have a person of your dreams." 
Youve got to be realistic about your social abilities. 
Why not learn Backgammon, or better yet, oral 
hygiene techniques.?
6) The person of your dreams gets engaged. The 
mother of the person of your dreams gets a gun. She 
says that if you bother her son/daughter anymore, 
she's going to shoot you until all your blood is drcined.
SOME PEEKS INTO THE FUTURE
1) Now you describe some of your classmates as 
born again. In five years, you'll be describing them 
as born again and again. In ten years, someone 
will tell you, Hey, there goes your friend Joe Smith. 
He's really into his religion these days... now more 
than ever. And youll say, Joe Smith? Not again!
2) In the late 80s, you'll describe the 70's by saying, 
 I dont think I had my shit together back then.
3) Youll never, ever, in your whole entire life, be on a 
yellow school bus again.
4) At the CMU 10 year reunion, youll have a feeling 
of suppressed joy when you hear about the failures of 
some of the jerks and nerds now walking around CMU. 
Wow... he really lives in a puddle of rain water and 
sewage, huh? Wow, thats a shame. Too bad.
5) Youll tell all the neighbors in your Singles Com
mune about what a wild, crazy animal you were back 
at CMU - the CMU sensation, they called you. But 
back here, we all think youre pretty mild mannered.
6) Nowadays, restaurants are posting signs saying, 
water only upon request." Some restaurants even 
post signs giving their reasons:
For each glass we serve, we use 8 oz. of water, 8 oz. 
of ice, and 16 oz. of water in the dishwasher to clean 
the glass. Because of the water shortage, we ask 
that you bear with us.
In the future, we'll demand even more involved rea
soning.
For each glass of water served, our restaurant 
uses 8 oz. of water, 8 oz. of ice and 16 oz. of dishwash
er water. But, the extra glass of water you drink could 
very well cause you to use the bathroom, whereas, 
you might not have needed to otherwise. Our toilets 
use up three gallons per flush. Then you wash your 
hands in our sink-another 24 oz. Then periodic
ally, we have to send Matthew, our restaurant janitor, 
into the john to clean the toilet and sink - still ano
ther few gallons. Then he has to wash his hands, 
which necessitates another 24 oz. If Matthew de
cides to go to the bathroom himself, we might just 
run out of water.
THINGS YOU CAN ONLY DO STANDING UP
1) Sit yourself down.
2) Walk across the room
3) See if youre taller than your best friend.
THINGS YOU CAN ONLY DO WHILE BURPING
1) Wonder what caused you to burp. Asking yourself 
what was the last thing you ate?
2) Prepare your apology speech. Oh, Im sorry. It 
must have been something I ate.
THINGS YOU CAN ONLY DO IN A HELICOPTER
1) Say to the pilot, Boy, this sure is different from an 
airplane!"
2) Sing the theme from M*A*S*H* without having to 
make the sound of whirring blades as back-up 
harmony.
THINGS YOU CAN ONLY DO IN ABSENTIA
1) Not Vote.
2) Not show up.
RESPONSES TO GIVE HARE KRISHNA'S AT THE 
AIRPORT
1) Sorry, I don't give charity to bald people.
2) Sounds like a fine religion. I'll be sure to remember 
you in my will.
3) If you carry my bags from here to the gate at the 
other end of the airport, Ill give you 25 cents a bag 
and you can give me one of those flowers.
STEREOTYPES THAT NO LONGER EXIST
1) Southern Belles. Because all the southern girls watch 
too many sitcoms about New Yorkers and Los Angelesers and they start thinking that being a S.B. is uni
maginative. And being a virgin is uncool.
2) Dead People. Everything is synthetic these days, and 
you can never be sure if someone is really dead or not. 
They might be plastic, not dead.
3) Acne victims. Because there are great formulas on 
the market meaning many would-be acne victims never 
get zits. So you cant tell whether or not they would be 
shy and withdrawn if they ever had zits because they 
never had zits...and they would have zits if it wasn't for 
the effective products and cures that glut the market 
these days.
4)Astronauts. You can't point to a guy in the super
market, the way you could back in the 60s, and say, 
Hey, theres Bob Smith...hes an astronaut!" because 
there aren't any more astronauts. And in the good old 
days, anyone who put Tang in his supermarket cart 
was most probably an astronaut, but nowadays, youve 
even got rapists and murderers buying the stuff.
5)Reincarnated Folks. In the late 60s, people who 
were living their second life were pr*tty open about it. 
Theyd say, Hey, Deja-Vu...baby, Ive got it." and 
youd know they were cool - reincarnated, but still 
cool. Now there are millions of them walking around, 
and they keep it to themselves. So you never know if 
that special virgin, is, well, really a virgin.
/

---------------------------------------------------

PLACES TO GO WHEN BILLY JOEL IS IN TOWN
1)To a Billy Joel Concert
2) Someplace other than a Billy Joel concert.
ACTIVITIES TO PARTICIPATE IN WHILE RIDING 
ON A CROWDED BUS
1) Pushing, shoving and excusing yourself.
2) Offering your seat to people who dont look like 
they have long to live.
3) Asking the guy next to you, in a very loud voice, 
Who's got the bad breath?
4) Having a cup of Lipton Iced Tea when somebody 
pulls the stop cord.
5) Defacing the bus with a magic marker -Sev is a 
load and other oldies but goodies.
6) Counting Blacks, Whites, Chinese and Mexican 
Americans.
7) Asking an old lady to get out of her seat because 
shes had it long enough and you'd like to sit down 
now.
8) Try to identify the heterosexuals from the Gays. As 
a bonus, try to identify the men from the women.
9) Start talking about E.F. Hutton and see if people 
listen.
PEOPLE WHO GET ON YOUR NERVES, 
GODDAMNIT!
1) People who answer, I got them all cut" when 
asked if they got a haircut.
2) People who announce their farts... Oh man, Im 
going to let one loose in a minute... hold on tight.
3) Engineers, smug as they are, who brag about CMU 
by listing all the famous dramats who went here. 
Whatsamatter? Don't they know any famous engin
eers?
4) People who grow marijuana, talk about how won
derful it is that they're growing marijuana, keep 
track of how large their marijuana plants are getting, 
continue to stress the fact that theyre really growing 
marijuana... and never seem to smoke a leaf! They 
always end up buying ounce after ounce, hand over 
fist, from dealer after dealer. Why dont they just 
admit that marijuana plants in Pittsburgh are pure 
conversation pieces and will never amount to much?
5) People who shake their heads and say, If Fred
die Prinze hadnt died, hed be alive today.
6) People who yell at you for being in the eight 
items or less checkout line at the supermarket with 
nine items.
7) People who love to talk about where they were on 
the day Kennedy was shot. (By the way, in just 
two years, freshman will have been born after the 
assasination.)
8) Women who blow smoke rings in your face when 
you're asking them out on a date.
9) People who use the phone while theyre sitting on 
the toilet, (the echo gives them away.)
10) People who insist on reading your astrology to 
you.
11) Men who jerk their heads backwards every minute 
or so to keep their hair out of their eyes -- the type of 
guy who doesn't believe in combs or haircuts.
12) People who leak pure conceit into conversations, 
for example, 'Oh gosh, I'm running out of fingers 
and toes to count my job offers on.
13) Parents who send care packages as if they're send
ing to CARE. A typical package, rice, sugar pack
ages, bread sticks, autographed picture of Andrew
THINGS TO THINK ABOUT WHEN YOU'RE 
HAVING SEX
1) Someday you'll have a little baby child  maybe a 
girl. And shell be so cute, so cuddly and loveable. And 
then shell grow up, and that wonderful little boy next 
door - hell grow up too. And then the time will come 
when that little boy next door (now big and husky) 
will look at your daughter (still sweet and lovable) and 
hell tell his friends, Oh guys, shes got the greatest ass 
in the world...Im telling you. Great. Super. Delicious. 
And then wont you feel horrible?
2) The best time to buy insurance is when youre 
young and the rates are low.
3) The best time to make long distance calls is late at 
night when the rates are low.
4) The best time to have sex is right after a girl has had 
her period when the rates are safest.
5) Gosh, I had a good time tonight. And Im still 
having a good time. Isn't life beautiful?
6) Every rose dies.
THINGS TO TELL HIGH SCHOOL KIDS WHO 
COME HERE AS SLEEPINGBAGGERS
Because CMU has more sleeping bag weekends 
than the Boy Scouts, it takes a concerted effort by 
everyone to keep alive the spirit of this successful 
propaganda event. Here are a few things you must 
remember to tell your sleepingbagger:
1) Ugly people control campus activities.
2) The insulation in the new dorms is made of balls of 
cotton. The balls of cotton in the Vali-Dine lasagna 
are made of insulation.
3) Littering is legal on campus...in fact, it's encouraged.
4) If all the books in Hunt Library were laid end to
end, theyd reach to Forbes Avenue, and maybe even 
back to the library.
5) Most female co-eds carry either weapons or LCB 
cards in their purses.
6) President Cyert is not related to Elvis Presley. He 
merely had the plastic surgery operation so he could 
look more like The King."
7) Transcripts cost $2 and are available in the Regis
trars office. Fixed transcripts cost $2,500 and are 
available in the Mellon Banking machine. Just feed in 
the money ($2,500) and push the cheat" button.
8) Resident Assistants are more active sexually, less 
intellectual and more apt to be illegal aliens than nonResident Assistants.
9) Theres rabbit, squirrel and moose hunting avail
able in Schenley Park.
10) The people in the Peer Help Center are not your 
friends, they're your peers...there's a difference.
11) Hurricane season in Pittsburgh is May through
12) Validine's Day is February 14.
IT SURE WOULD BE HUMILIATING IF...
1) The Pope came to the US and no one came to see 
him in person. Instead, we all were satisfied just to 
watch him on TV.
2) The Banana spirit returned to CMU football games 
with the pelting of the new Miss Varsity.
3) All the loud-mouthed anti-Miss Varsity folks got sus
pended for starting a banana barrage.
4) Jane Fonda came to CMU and called us all 
capitalists.
5) SAEs volcano accidently had an accident. Boy... 
wouldnt that be terrible?
6) Dossier, after building up a tremendous first-issue
readership, was changed back to FOLIO in a return to 
tradition move organ; ARC.Young.

---------------------------------------------------

ARTS8.
Art and Technology
by Andy Epstein 
This is the first of a series of articles on Art and 
Technology. These articles will serve a dual purpose. 
First, it will bring to light ideas and advancements 
which most students and some faculty throughout the 
university seem to be ignorant of. Secondly, I hope 
that they may stimulate students and faculty of all 
disciplines to explore and attempt some ventures in the 
"new mediums I will discuss. This university has a 
consistent standard of high qualities in both the Fine 
Arts and the Sciences; there is no reason why collabo
ration could not exist. In fact, it is amazing that it 
hasn't occurred more often.
For purists who may be upset with the title, I would 
first like to explain the difference between science and 
technology. While science is the quest for sure infor
mation and research on natural phenomenon, technol
ogy exists as both the offspring and midwife of science. 
Technology is the practical application of scientific dis
coveries. It also provides science with the tools neces
sary to expand research into new areas.
With the advancement of scientific thought into the 
arts there is a change in artistic concepts and creations. 
Consequently the practice of art - i.e. the mediums 
and tools used, and the application of new techniques 
and ideas - changes as well.
Even at the very beginning of art there was a link 
with science and technology. Indicative of this is the 
fact that cave paintings involved man's use of tools to 
create that art. It was no small process for early homosapiens to discover and use paint as a medium of ex
pression. On a deeper level there exists another link in 
these early artistic practices. The symbols used were 
not only an attempt at a visual language but were a 
spiritual and magical ritual as well. The cave men be
lieved that by painting scenes of animals being captured they could bring that event about._____________
...The most important 
similarity is the 
creative thought process
The repercussions of the concept of mans control 
over nature through symbols are felt throughout his
tory. They are echoed in the mathematical geometry 
and talismen of Greece; and even in Ancient Egypt 
where the ability to draw symbols representing ani
mals, objects and individuals gave the artist-priest 
power over the secret spirit of that which he had repre|sented. The simplification or abstraction of cave paint - 
has eventually led to the written languages of toiay, including mathematics, the language of science 
I science.
The dual nature of the relationship of art and tech
nology is seen over and over again. On the technologi
cal side the examples are clear. There was the develop
ment of oil colors replacing the more cumbersome 
I medium of egg tempera. Scales and other measuring 
tools were used by sculptors when proportioning their 
[stone for the humaa form. The technique of etching 
/as highly specialized for artists and artisans.
i fife**
Artisan is a key word. It seems that though there 
existed artists as opposed to scientists  or more ap
propriately philosophers, astronomers, and alchemists 
that the definitions were often blurred. Though this occured most visibly in people like Michaelangelo and 
DaVinci, who were both artists and scientists, a less 
blatant but more common example was the artisan. 
These craftsmen seem to be a common point of depar
ture for both the artist and the scientist. With the pas
sing of the Rennaissance, specialization in both areas 
seems to have necessitated a split.
This shared heritage points to the second part of 
the Science/Art duality. The most important yet most 
misunderstood similarity between the two disciplines 
is the creative thought process. Great artists and great 
scientists use the same mental techniques in approach
ing their work. It is the tools used to reach that goal 
of discovery which differ.
Differences do exist, and since the Rennaissance, 
the gap between the two is bridged much less frequent
ly. A good example is Cezannes break with purely 
representational art. It is no coincidence that this hap
pened at the time of increased and fervent scientific 
activity known as the Industrial Revolution. It was a 
period of questioning of the old norms and doctrines 
of thought in both areas. Just as science had illustrated 
and explained seemingly invisible patterns and proper
ties behind reality, Cezanne and subsequent artists 
searched out these principles of nature through their 
art.
The advent of the Industrial Revolution also acted 
as a catalyst for anti-science art. It is at this point when 
a great misunderstanding developed. The Fauves, The 
German Expressionists, the Bleau Reiter, and the Im
pressionists all sought to bring emotion back into their 
work. The Bohemian concept of the artist as the misan
thropic observer and critic of society and, hence, tech
nology becomes the accepted norm. Nevertheless, these 
were healthy movements. Not only did it give the arts a 
period for serious introspection and self-discovery; but, 
it also brought about a questioning of science as a force 
other than the miracle worker for the betterment of 
humanity that the rich and bourgeois made it out to 
be.
A change in this mutual mistrust is reflected in one 
of the greatest Art-Technology collaborations of this 
century. The formation of the Bauhaus, directly pre
ceded by the ideology of Art Nouveau, represents a
strong institutional joining of art and science to create 
functional design for the masses. Administered by ar 
chitects (themselves a hybrid of art and science), the 
school stressed not only the emotional side of art but 
an understanding of the tools, mediums, and industrial 
processes involved in the creation of art. It is no coin 
cidence that the school brought up the old idea of the 
artisan-crattsman, the common denominator of both 
the artist and scientist. The repercussions of this move 
ment are felt even today in artists and architects such 
Klee, Albers, Gropius and Van de Roe and conse
quently their students Rauschenberg, Schwitters, and 
Wright.
...E.A.T. ranged from 
kinetic sculpture to 
video happenings...
Rauschenberg is a powerhouse of new ideas whose 
influence is felt in at least two very important areas of 
modern art/science relationships. The first and most 
well known of the two is Pop Art. Interestingly 
enough, the movement of Pop seems to have risen si
multaneously in different individuals. This makes sense 
when one considers that a majority of the artists lived 
in metropolitan areas and were merely reacting to their 
technologically packed environment. They responded 
to this environment in two ways. First they used it 
(packaged goods, signs, cars, etc.) as subject matter in 
their work. Secondly, they imitated the processes de
veloped from this new technology (billboard painting, 
ben day dots of comics, photosilkscreen and others).
Lesser known effects of the Rauschenberg era in
clude an organization called EAT - Experiments in 
Art and Technology. This institution, having sprung 
from a previous artist/scientist collaboration known as 
Nine Evenings," functioned as a type of switchboard 
service for joining artists with engineers. The organiza
tion brought about many interesting pieces ranging 
from kinetic sculptures to video happenings. More im
portantly it was a formal effort to make new and exci
ting technological tools available to the artist and al
lowed the engineer a creative outlet for his work.
rontinued on pace 10

---------------------------------------------------

Symphony Gala parades new styles
by Joan Livitski
The Symphony Fashion Gala may be done and over 
with but dont let the parade of Fall clothes pass you 
by. This is one year you'll want to take an even closer 
look at what's available and choose things of lasting 
style and quality. With rising costs and scarce commo
dities effecting everything from energy to food to what 
we wear, consumers will find investment buying the 
only way to shop.
Gloria Sachs, guest designer at the Gala, is one de
signer who seems to understand the shoppers' predic
ament. She realizes things are becoming rare and 
precious including fabrics and other items used to 
produce garments, yet Ms. Sachs' outlook provides a 
feasible solution. She suggests that people buy less 
but the very best and make their wardrobe flexible 
by co-ordinating pieces that work together. Along with 
being compatible with garments you already own, new 
clothes should be able to go from season to season and 
year to year.
Proving she's consistent in idea and product, Ms. 
Sachs' Fall line is made up of designs which  give you 
service. Her clothes are constructed to work for you 
by fitting in with your lifestyle. If one buys wisely - 
classic styles and what one likes - certain items will 
remain in your wardrobe forever.
Ms. Sachs uses herself as a base for her design ideas 
because she thinks of herself as a consumer not unlike 
most American women. She too admits to becoming 
upset when she sees shabby or shoddy workmanship 
and feels designers should do work they can be proud 
of. One of the few designers to work without an assis 
tant, Ms. Sachs believes coming out with a successful 
line can only happen by supervision, and she certain 
ly puts in enough personal attention to warrant her 
celebrated status.
Ms. Sachs predicts that skirts are going to stabalize'' at or just below the knee. And though she per
sonally likes bright colors, she feels clothing in neutral 
shades make better investment buys. As a bottom line 
Ms. Sachs feels that what you wear is a matter of 
conlidence. Shed like to see people personalizing 
their wardrobes more since clothes are here to make 
you feel good.'
Clothes aren't the only things that make us feel 
good though. The Symphony Gala had the same in ten 
tion. With a theme of I Love A Parade,'' Horne s and 
the Women's Association not only paraded the new 
Fall fashions for its audience, they trooped in a march
ing band and sequined majorrettes. After years of 
producing themes ot other people's favorite things, this 
year Jane Vandermade, Fashion Director at Hornes 
and co-ordinator of the Gala, had a chance to do a 
show of her own favorite things.
This years fashions are showing dynamic new color, 
bold silhouettes, and innovative variations of old stand
ards. In short, theres something for everyone and for 
every occasion. Clothing is ranging from sedate to se
ductive, preppy to precocious, neutral to neon. If 
you ve so far been buying clothes piecemeal and on 
whim, you might want to look into acquiring a classic 
suit in grey flannel or black wool. On the other hand, 
if your closet is filled with good basics in neutral tones, 
then youll most likely want a few new pieces to spice 
up your wardrobe in the newest colors like: magenta, 
turquoise, saphire, mauve, maroon, or teal.
The preppy look is back for men and v/omen alike. 
Crewneck sweaters worn with cords or flannels and 
loafers accented with a feather stick-pin at the shoulder 
or breast pocket is a sportswear style thatll stay in 
your wardrobe for a long, long time. Neutral color 
combinations of greys, beige, rust, and black, whether 
it be with solids or in plaids, is an important color 
statement for classic sportswear. Textures are also sig
nificant be tney Irish tweeds or nubby cocoon swea
ters.
This season everything from sportswear to eveningwear can be updated through color. Red accessories 
liven up grey flannel, maroon compliments navy, and 
any bright and bold color provides vibrant contrast for 
black. In fact, this Fall will display a lot ot unusual 
color combinations. They may be two, three or tour 
shocking bnghts layered over each other or unlikely 
pairs woven together in a plaid for a skirt or jacket.
For coats fur is still considered one of the warmest 
not to mention most luxunest ways to keep cozy this 
winter. On the more practical side though , we'll see 
a lot of snuggly, easy care quilted and down filled 
coats, jackets and vests. The newest fashion statement 
in coating happens in a throw-back to the seven-eighths 
and three quarters length coats. Shoulders are broad 
and heavily padded but the skirt of the coat tappers to 
hug the body in a slimming style. Collars are high to 
frame the face as well as block out the wind.
Suits will have much the same silhouette with pad
ded shoulders, but jackets will tend to be shorter and 
belted to emphasize the waist and hips. Skirts will be 
slim and straight, still slit but not quite so high on the 
thigh. Pleating will be the new look for skirts this 
season like tight accordian pleats that softly swirl with 
every move.
Photographs by Joan Livitski
The trend this year is back to a womanly shape 
through fitted, tailored clothes, soft fabrics, and 
clingy knits. Sweatering is taking on many uses this 
year from dresses to coats to suit jackets, in the pro
cess it's adding a lot of texture to the Fall line. Uther 
body-molding fabric we 11 see a great deal of is mohair 
and chenille. Further emphasizing femininity, hats and 
even gloves will make a come bade for both day and 
evening dressing. Shoes will still be high, but instead of 
flimsy strapped sandles, we'll be seeing more closed 
pumps.
The real glitter comes for eveningwear when silk and 
velvet dinner suits step out adorned with rhinestones, 
pearls or sparkling gold baubbles. This is the time for 
glamour in fabric, jewelry and style. With all the harsh 
realities of daily life, it's suiting that at least our war
drobes should bring us a little fantasy.

---------------------------------------------------

... continued..
on this Page10.
continued from page 5
Yeah, but my terror is becoming a big, fat or over
ly soft businessman with ulcers and headaches and no 
time for his family. Whenever I am really working hard 
to get ahead  truly nerding out in the library or some
thing, I can just picture myself at fifty-five, balding, 
smoking, drinking, sickening. I get really scared.
Somehow, though, I think were safe. Were pretty 
aware - wed catch it before it went too far.
I hope you're right, Deb, and, in a way, I think 
you are. I cant see us slipping into the 'two-car, oneand-a-half-bath, two-and-a-quarter kids average Ameri
can family thing. I think were safe.
They thought about one another as they talked. To 
her, Keith was fairly goo-looking, bright, and really a 
lot of fun to be with. Keith thought she was attractive, 
and also enjoyed her company. He had often consider
ed furthering the relationship, but the idea of turning 
this symbiosis into a romance scared him, because none 
of the romances he had had since he met Debbie had 
lasted. She wouldnt have minded giving him a kiss now 
and then - but shed seen that turn to lust, and watch
ed golden friendships rust away over some lovers 
quarrel. It would ruin the equality*, they thought.
"Its starting to get late, Keith, lets head home.
Good idea - I could use some dinner right about 
now.
Schools only two weeks off, you know, well have 
to get the kids to Sears to buy their winter stuff.
It can wait, honey, Ive got to fly to Baltimore for 
a seminar Tuesday, and Ill be working most nights this 
week.
That's alright, dear. This has been a lovely walk. 
We'll have to do it again sometime,"
Yeah, sometime.'*
continued from page 8
I realize that I have left out many movements and 
artists in this explanation. Hopefully I can fill in these 
blank spots in subsequent articles. If youre interested 
in a comprehensive yet detailed account of art and 
science relationships - Art and the Future, by Douglas 
Davis, is a fine book.
One last note. Coincidence is a misleading term in 
both art and science. If an individual is aware of his/ 
her options then 'luck' becomes predictable if not 
unavoidable. Douglas sums up this idea:
Collaboration enables the artist to obtain practical 
knowledge otherwise unavailable. He becomes familiar 
with his material. He discovers precisely what an audio 
circuit or computer can do when taken out of its origi 
nal functional context ... He liberates the machine in 
spite of himself. He also liberates the engineer, to the 
point where the split between artist, engineer, and ever 
machine ultimately disappears.
continued from page 3
freestyle throwing and catching.
Fnsbee playing has become almost a cult,! 
I was told. When you have a frisbee in your hand youl 
automatically meet people, said team member Markl 
Wriqht. Some enthusiast travel the country stoppingl 
to play frisbee with frisbee people in every city. I arrl 
told that fellow fnsbee players will always give you a| 
place to stay while passing through cities and towns| 
across the country.
A cult? Maybe. Here to stay? Maybe not. But ini 
any case, it is refreshing to see that in this often overlyl 
technical world and especially at this technical univer * 
sity, people can find enjoyment, relaxation and cre
ativity in something as simple as a frisbee.

---------------------------------------------------

f DETAILS11.
Some places of interest in Squirrel Hill;To get to Squirrel Hill take the PAT busses,61A,61B or 61c to Murray and Forbes.
Games People Play
by Lisa Amowitz and Louise Molnar
Nestled in the cozy shoppmg district of Squirrel 
Hill on Forbes Avenue, there lies an intriguing little 
shop which looks like it could be Santa Claus' ware
house in Pittsburgh. But don't let that cause you ma
ture college students to shy away, disdainful of its 
hordes of treasures. Here there is something for every
one. In fact, I would estimate that two thirds of the 
store is designated for fun things for adult kids.
For example, there are Halloween masks which 
are the tops in horror; fullheaded latex masks which 
are disarmingly realistic. If youre in an inventive 
mood, there is a monster make up set for a more crea
tive approach.
Then, for hours and hours of careful thinking, 
there is an exhaustive selection of strategy games. 
They can be found in any sport or war which suits 
your fancy. There are games about auto racing, yacht
ing, baseball, football, WW II, outdoor survival, in ad
dition to the ever popular Risk and Monopoly. They 
also have the fast growing Dungeons and Dragons.
On the other side if the store, for electronic kicks, 
there are computer games in varying degrees of sophis
tication and price. There are computer football to com
puter quiz games, the Merlin with six games in one, Si
mon, in which you do what the computer does, and 
many others.
For the more whimsical side of things, there is a 
charming collection of handcrafted wooden mario
nettes from West Germany. There are also a few ven
triloquist's dummies.
Stuffed animals, in addition to all sizes of Ragge
dy Anns, line the ceiling, and in a glass showcase 
there is a collection of Stieffe animals from W. Ger
many, the finest and most expensive stuffed animals in 
the world.
In a brightly lit back room there are shelves from 
floor to ceiling lined with exquisite international dolls. 
All handcrafted and made from porcelain, they are 
strictly for collectors.
On the lighter side there are novelty items such as 
uglies in a sock and flapper dolls.
So for some serious fun check out S.W.Randalls 
and see if you dont find the child that is still play
ing within.
Distant Lands and Nearby Treasures
Do you yearn to be far away on a distant and exotic 
continent? Craving for the soaring peaks of Peru; the 
jungles of Africa? Any place but Pittsburgh? If you 
cant afford the time or the money to get away, an
other alternitive would be to make your present envi
ronment more exciting.
The Ten Continents, 5826 Forbes Ave in Squirrel 
Hill has treasures and goodies from around the world, 
primarily South America, Africa and Asia. The owners, 
Dan and Carol Klein frequently go on long expeditions 
searching for interesting items to bring back to Pitts
burgh.
Everything in the store is handcrafted in far away
countries. You can find colorful alpaca hats from Peru 
to keep you warm this winter, Ecuadorian ponchos, 
Panamanian cloth dolls, Guatemalan wall hangings and 
Chinese antique jade necklaces. The prices are from 
moderate to high depending on the item.
For the month of October, the owners are offering a 
10% discount to any CMU student who presents his 
school ID and this article.
So, If exams are buckling you under and your pass
port is hidden in the sock drawer, or if you dont even 
own a passport, come down to the Ten Continents and 
let your imagination take you on a safari.
SAY CHEESE!
?????????????
Perhaps your event calls for better fare than Swiss 
and Chedder on Ritz; or maybe you are just craving 
something more luscious than servomation candy bars. 
Say Cheese at 5840 Forbes Avenue is a well stocked 
deli/epicurean shop, chock full of delicious alternatives 
to campus food. There are 100 varieties of imported 
cheeses (sometimes one can even find Copenhagen 
Creme) and a great array of crackers and biscuits to ac
company. For the chocolate lover, find a full selection 
of Toblerone,one of Switzerlands best, or look through 
the rest of their assorted sweets and candies for some
thing new. The coffees are roasted downtown at the 
only coffee roaster in the city and all makes of coffee 
machines are discounted. From peanut butter freshly 
ground, unusual canned soups (not Campbells), and 
the ultra-creamy Haagen Dasz ice cream to plum pud
ding, caviar, escargots, and chutney, this store can sup
ply your desires. There's half off on special items selec
ted daily.
Say Cheese also offers a full take-out deli with a 
choice of 13 sandwiches, 4 chef salads, bagels, eggrolls, 
desserts (oh cheesecake and baklava!) and an exciting 
choice of beverages rangmg from coke to cappucino. 
So come for lunch... and then take home some goodies 
for the kind of late-night snack you deserve.
0 OO O 0 O OO OCO O O O CO O OO O O 6
TEENIE BEANIES
The Candy lar 1829 Murray Ave.
For every imaginable tlaver in a jelly bean visit the 
Candy Jar. Among the flavors you can find: spearmint, 
banana, licorice, peanut butter, green apple, fudgey 
chocolate, cinnamon, cinnamon apple, peppermint,

---------------------------------------------------

Where is the need greatest?
Everyone has a list but there's no question 
that these belong:
 Reliable energy sources.
 More efficient woys to use row materials.
 New materials to replace diminishing resources.
 More productive technology that doesn't odd to
the environmental burden.
 Technology for renewing and protecting natural resources.
 Adequate food supplies for people around the world.
At Union Carbide our engineers and sdentists ore working on oil of these 
and others, os well os keeping our plants humming, our products 
competitive, and our processes even more productive.
Perhaps you'd like to join us.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
RECRUITING COORDINATOR 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION
270PARK AVENUE . N EW YORK N Y 1001
Our recruiters will interview on campus for technical positions on 
Thursday, October 25. Contact your placement office for details.
