TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CIT Dean Toor Resigns
January 30, 1979Volume 79, Number 19
Dean Herbert Toor of CIT said he was leaving that position to return to research work in the 
Chemical Engineering Department.
Lab Air Circulation 
Needs Improvements
by Elliot Ohlberg
This is the second half of an article 
examining the environmental quality of the 
air in selected campus areas. Last week's 
installment dealt primarily with the printmaking studios in the Coal Research 
Building. This one looks at sculpture, 
ceramics, chemistry, and engineering.
Its probably not possible to have suffi
cient ventilation, decided one sculpture 
student. Some students just dont clean 
up properly, said another.
The main sculpture area in Doherty Hall 
is a large, two-story tall room where art 
students apply a variety of sculpting 
techniques. It is not uncommon to walk 
into the area at a busy time and become 
somewhat nauseated from an interesting
O-C Housing 
Consolidates
The Off-Campus Housing Office an
nounced that it is consolidating with the 
University of Pittsburgh Off-Campus Hous
ing Office to form one unit and provide 
better facilities. The new service, Universi
ty Off-Campus Housing, will be operated 
from the Pitt Student Union Building and 
will offer extensive housing files and free 
telephones to contact landlords and real
tors.
The present office in Skibo 56 will 
remain open and assist in advising CMU 
students and staff. It will also keep a hous
ing list of units open only to the CMU 
community.
With the consolidation, more printed 
material and programs will be made avail
able to CMU. A Pitt publication, Guide 
to Off-Campus Housing, is being up-dated 
to provide information on financial agree
ments, leases, subletting, termination, evic
tion, and the rights of tenants for the 
campus community. There will also be a 
seminar on off-campus housing at each 
University.
In the future, the Office hopes to pro
vide recorded housing lists for people call
ing from outside the Pittsburgh area. A 
housing fair is planned for August at Pitt 
to deal with various aspects of obtaining 
a house or apartment.
array of air contaminants. These include 
the fumes of metals, plastics, styrofoam, 
ocassionally cyanide, and silica from 
welding and metal-casting, and the dusts 
from stones. Then, on top of all this, many 
students mentioned smelling an ether-like, 
mystery fume. This type of odor does not 
originate in the sculpture area. The 
educated speculators, (including Herb 
Toor and Joe McNally), think that some
one has been dumping organic solvents 
down the wrong drain in either the chemi
stry or chemical engineering labs.
According to sculpture professor Ron 
Bennett, most of the room does have 
adequate ventilators, but they are not 
positioned in the most advantageous 
places. In March 1977, Bennett submitted 
a proposal to Art Department Head Orville 
Winsand and Physical Plant calling for 
an extension of the exhaust system, so that 
it pulls the fumes directly from where they 
originate. Welding and metalcasting are the 
two areas in need of this type of flexible 
extension. The only portion of the 
sculpting room where a new ventilator may 
be needed, added Bennett, is the sanding 
comer; very little air circulates and the 
smaller sawdust particles often remain 
suspended for hours.
Perhaps the most dangerous sculpting 
materials to work with are plastics. 
Bennett reported that he tries to dis
courage the use of them, and has noticed 
that many students forget to follow his 
his instructions for safe handling of the 
plastics when they are used. (One excuse 
is that face masks and gloves are cumber
some.) The truth is, many occupational 
diseases are found among plastics workers; 
sculptors are not immune.
Upstairs from the sculpture room is the 
ceramics area. Winsand said, the claymaking room has been looked at exten
sively, and the plan for improving the 
exhaust is well conceived on paper. This 
project is ready to go, provided the money 
for it is included in the Art Departments 
capital equipment budget for this year.
Chemistry Department Head Robert 
Kay reported no specific problems with 
either the Doherty Hall or Mellon 
Institute labs. The latter, where CMUs 
chemistry research labs are located, has 
a special lab on the ninth floor for the 
continued on page 7
by Brian Byrnes
Herbert Toor, Dean of CIT, announced 
last week that he will leave that post effect
ive in June. Toor had been dean for nine 
years, and he felt that no one should do 
it any longer than that.
Toor first came to the University in 
1953 as an assistant professor in chemical 
engineering. He explained that because of 
cold winters that he and his wife spent in 
London the two previous years, he came 
to find central heating.
Toor will remain with CMU and return 
to his research work in chemical engineer
ing. He received his B.S. at Drexel and his 
M.S. and Ph.D. at Northwestern.
Toor would not speculate on his suc
cessor, but said there was a strong possi
bility that it might be someone within CIT 
now. There is no shortage of administra
tors in CIT. There are a number of good 
engineers here, he asserted.
Some of the programs that came about 
in Toors term have been Engineering and 
Public Policy (E&PP), the Design Research 
Center, the Analysis, Synthesis, and Evalu
ation (ASE) Courses, and the Program in 
Technology and Humanities. Toor believes
that there is a need to humanize engin
eers, to develop interests in music, art, the 
humanities, and other cultural activities as 
well as skills in engineering and science.
Toor said before,Historically, engineers 
have been awfully lousy at recognizing 
problems. Its the humanist who is very 
good at pointing out that we are getting 
into all kinds of new problems. But once 
the problem gets identified it takes the 
people with the technological background 
to get to work on it. So the big challenge 
is to get a man that has got both nf these 
facets. You get a narrow engin who 
says, I have to build a dam thei *\d 
all Im going to do is build a dam,and the 
other guy who says, If you put that dam 
there look at all the horrible things that 
are going to happen. One and the same 
man should have both the technology and 
the understanding, because otherwise you 
just dont know what is going on. The twoculture man.
He thinks that the college is stronger 
now because of the new programs and 
the strong, new faculty that has come to 
CIT in the past nine years. Toor declares, 
Its boom-time for engineers.
Fall Discipline Board Busy
Hundreds of niors met Saturday night to discuss everything from freshman year to this year's 
rise in the graduation fee. The annual Senior banquet was well-attended and the dance in the Skibo 
Ballroom afterwards was jammed. At midnight, sixteen prizes ware given out, including a trip to 
Hawaii for two. The winner of the trip was music m^er Mary Smith. Soma of the senior* who beg
ged the TARTAN to trite their "last photo together" appear above.
by Andrew L. Ragan
There was a reasonable amount of 
disciplinary activity in the Fall semester, 
said Dean jf Student Affairs Earle Swank 
recently in an interview concerning the 
Disciplinary Process for students at CMU.
According to Dean Swank, the Disci
plinary Committee, which consists of one 
University officer or one Academic Dean, 
one member of the faculty, and two stu
dents, actually had more hearings than 
the student court last semester. Swank 
explained that four cases went through the 
routine process of not having to call a 
student court, while two others which did 
go that route were cases where students 
hoped by getting a decision of mitigating 
circumstances to have somewhat reduced 
or lower level penalties. Swank stated: If 
there is a possibility of a suspension or 
expulsion, I feel it (the case) should go in 
front of the full University Committee on 
Discipline. He contends that it would not 
be fair for such important decisions to be 
made by routine procedure, and that they 
should be given high prioroty and full at
tention.
The Disciplinary report completed for 
last semester gave the results on two cases 
of assault, a case of plagarism, one on the 
theft of University licensed priveleges 
(forged food contract card), two cases of 
theft of Universtiy property, one student 
charged for being in an unauthorized area, 
a case of non payment of University 
services, a case on the sale or provision of 
dangerous drugs on University property, 
and one case on compromising the safety 
and security of the Universtiy community.
The parties involved in the two assault 
cases and the compromising of the safety 
and security of the University community 
were found guilty and given suspensions 
with fines or probation or both. After 
appealing those sentences, though, the 
students suspensions were rescinded with 
no other modifications (probations and 
fmes upheld), but were warned that 
further violations of any University 
regulations would result in expulsion. The 
students involved in the University licensed 
privilege theft, plagarism, and sale of pro
vision of dangerous drugs on University 
continued on oaoe 7
photo by Mark Segel

---------------------------------------------------

TAIWAN
Flunking-Out
Wise men say that those who flunked out in the past are 
condemned to repeat it. Wiser men (and women), the Deans 
at CMU, throw a year in between the past and the 
repetition of the past. In other words, once a student has 
spent a year (two semesters) flunking out (under 2.0 G.P.A.,
1.75 for freshman), hes asked to take a hike for 12 months. 
Then he can come back to give the academic grind another 
try. If he bombs again, hes given the ax by the University, 
and can not return.
The TARTAN agrees with this policy. A year off gives a 
student a chance to get his or her act together; to find 
direction, motivation and maturity. There are many exam
ples of suspended students returning to CMU and gradu
ating with honors after a years hiatus. The Deans know 
what theyre doing.
But a student who is given walking papers after the 
fall semester is, in a sense, left walking the plank. He cant 
turn around and come back to CMU. He cant get into 
another school on such limited notice. He has to jump into 
the swirling waters of the outside world.
On January 4th, approximately 45 CMU students were 
asked to hit the road for either a year or a lifetime. Many of 
these students figured they could squeeze out a 2.0 in the 
fall semester and survive. Thinking of only the positive, 
they werent prepared for the shock of being thrown out 
of school. Some of them didnt find out until January 6th 
or 7th. School began on the 8th.
Dorm residents who were suspended were given 48 hours 
to dear out of their rooms (some requested, and were 
given more time). Apartment dwellers who didnt want to 
stay in Pittsburgh had to figure out a way to sublet their 
apartments or get out of their leases. And all these students 
had to chart their immediate future.
Students who are suspended at the end of the spring 
semester have things much easier. They have a summer to 
find a job, or get into a community or other college. If they 
want to travel for a year, they have time to make plans or 
change plans. They have a whole summer to realize that 
they wont be going back to CMU in the fall, and theyd 
better find a way to be productive for a year.
The Deans understand the hardships of the Januarydrop,  and they spent a few hours last Thursday morning 
discussing and justifying their approach to such suspensions.
Dean Kail, Associate Dean of CIT/MIS, has the most 
cases of possible-suspensions. In the '78 Fall semester he 
had 150 out of 1800 CIT/MIS students on probation, all of 
whom could be suspended for dropping below the required 
average. He has always tended to suspend or drop more 
students (usually double the number) in May than in Janu
ary for the reasons outlined above. But, even though Pres
ident Cyert has doubts about the January suspension, he 
thinks its necessary.
In some cases where students have been doing so poorly 
academically,  Kail said, it is clearly immoral to take their 
money for another semester. 
While he informs students of their suspension as early 
as possible, Kail finds circumstances prohibit him from 
telling them before grades are issued. To hand pul I 150 
sets of marks for all the students on probation would in
volve thousands of course grades. It wouldn't be feasible 
for the profs or for the department.  Kail said.
In Fine Arts, Dean Midani trys to review significant 
grades before Christmas. But he has a smaller number of 
students in trouble to deal with. Midani also has the 
Deans Student option, where a student who should be 
suspended is in the care of the Dean as he attempts to make 
it in another major.
AH the Deans look at each case on an individual basis, 
and often extend probation to allow students another 
chance.
The Deans know that flunking out is a traumatic time for 
students, heightened when the guillotine is dropped in 
January. Students often feel like they've failed their parents 
who made monetary sacrifices so they could get a good 
education. Students also are embarrassed in front of their 
peers because of their failure.
We try our best to make things easy for them,  Dean 
Midani said, and we're very sympathetic. But just like the 
21 gun salute didn't convince the Shah of Iran that he 
wasn't going to be deposed, students see our bottom line. 
We have to tell them that theyre through. 
Before last Thursday's meeting, theTART AN felt that 
something had to be done about the January drop. After 
hearing the arguments, weve decided the Deans are doing 
a competent job with the problem. We just thought we'd 
let the campus know that the tough situation of mid-year 
suspensions is being handled wisely. Jeffrey Zaslow
Editor-in-chief
DON'T C4LV ...TAICE YOUR 30SPNS10MK A. MAN... H-eR, H/W A GOOkilGl.
Letters
Editors note: Last week the 
TAR TAN asked Bill Dillon, Direc
tor of Auxiliary Services, to re
spond to complaints regarding the 
Shirley Apartments. Mr. Dillon is 
working on a reply and well be 
printing it in next weeks 
TARTAN.
Yet Another Slur
Editor:
The other day, while passing 
through Skibo, I saw an adver
tisement posted by the ZBT frat
ernity for a party that they held 
on Friday, January 19. The adver
tisement was extremely offensive 
to Poles and people of Polish an
cestry. I was a bit shocked to see 
an organization on campus public
ly engaging in this sort of vile eth
nic disparagement. It seems as if 
this campus is sinking to even 
lower depths than it did last sem
ester, for at least then the offen
sive acts were committed by 
cowards under cover of anony
mity.
If Dean Swank is as serious as
he claims to be about eliminating 
racism and prejudice on this cam
pus, he should see to it that ZBT 
be suitably punished for this 
slander, perhaps by imposition of 
a fine or suspension of privileges 
It is always important for the 
power of the institution to be of
ficially placed in opposition to 
this sort of ugliness, and this is 
doubly true when such offensive
ness is officially and publicly en
gaged in by an on-campus organi
zation. Such disciplining of ZBT 
might begin to establish Dean 
Swanks sincerity in trying to 
weed out prejudice on this cam
pus, far more than any of the su
perficial palliatives discussed at his 
recent lunch hour forum on dis
crimination on campus.
Daniel Mark Rosenblum
Price of Elitism 
Editor:
I have recently been struggling 
with a question that I am sure 
every student here has tried to 
come to grips with in the past.
That question is, Is this universi
ty worth the money paid for it?
I am a Civil Engineering stu
dent, so my argument is geared to 
the engineering curriculum.
They call CIT an engineer
ing school yet they teach techno
logy, as its name implies, not en
gineering. To best define my idea 
of what engineering is I will use a 
quote from Excellence in Engi
neering by William H. Roadstrum, a book I would recom
mend to any engineering stu
dent. It says, Engineering is the 
application of technical know
ledge to better meet mans needs. 
It is not technical knowledge. It is 
a doing.  The only steps toward 
meeting this definition in this 
school are the Analysis, Synthesis 
and Evaluation courses and the 
Senior Projects, all the rest merely 
teach technology. Perhaps that is 
why I enjoyed ASE more than 
any course Ive taken here. Even 
then it depends on the teacher 
and how he sets up the course;
TARTAN
Volume 79January 30, 1979Number 19
Editor-in-Chief:Jeff Zaslow
Managing Editors:Jean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business Manager:Stephanie Waite
News Editor:Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Mory Brenner
FOLIO Editor:K. A. Yaksich
Entertainment Editor:Joan Livitski
Sports Editors:Howard Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography Editor:Skip Brazelton
Production Managers:Neil Adler
John Qualley
Art Director:Dianne Lauble
Assistant News and Features Editor:Leslie Weiser
Assistant News Editor: 
Assistant Features Editor:
Andrew Ragan 
Susan Borg
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication, f unded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52. (412) 5782111
ALL RIGHTS RESERVrO

---------------------------------------------------

David Paul Heddle, a senior physics major, asked for a chance to spout his opinions before he graduates.VIEWS
I am currently a senior Physics 
student. Since it is possible that 
the graduate school I attend next 
year will not be CMU, time may 
be running out for me to write an 
opinionated letter to the TAR
TAN. This is what I am doing 
now. Just for the hell of it.
Nothing could provide a better 
forum for opening my discussion 
than the current controversy 
raging in the TARTAN over racial 
quota systems.
There is an unsigned, untitled 
letter in the January 23 issue 
which begins by making state
ments in the name of the Silent 
Majority. Presumably, this means 
white Americans. Since I am a 
white American, it follows that I 
am a member of the Silent Maj
ority. I would like to express my 
contempt for the author of this 
letter who credits, at least in part, 
some of his statements to me. 
Please speak for yourself.
The writer falls in the ever-pre
sent trap of criticizing racial quota 
systems simply because they dont 
work. (As does the writer of the 
letter titled My Opinion, as 
evidenced by his statement 
affirmative action has gone too 
far...) The crux of the argument 
is that qualified people are left 
unemployed. Thus, neither author 
argues against quota systems per 
se, they argue only that they are 
the means to an unfair end. The 
implication is that if quota sys
tems could be made fair, then 
theyd be okay.
I would argue against all quota 
systems, whether they are fair or 
not, on the premise that they nec
essitate the relaxation of property 
rights, since no longer can an em
ployer have complete control over 
his business.
So, if you believe in quota sys
tems, dont base your beliefs on a 
non-existent constitutional right 
to a job. Instead, have the courage 
to argue that the Constitution is 
faulty and property rights should 
not be as sacred as they have been 
hitherto considered.
If, like myself, you are against
quota systems, dont choose as 
your premise the empirical evi
dence that they are malignant 
rather than benign. Instead, ask 
why we should give the govern
ment another means of control
ling our lives.
I feel we must protect the prop
erty rights of all people, regardless 
of their politics or prejudices. A 
rational employer will hire the 
person who is most qualified. An 
irrational employer may hire only 
ex-convicts. If we begin an at
tempt to control irrationality, we 
are going to need a lot more than 
quota systems.
JP. Stevens is losing control 
over his property because of an 
aroused sympathy for his employ
ees, who feel that Stevens owes 
them a decent living. I still har
bor the secret desire that Stevens 
will some day close down all his 
plants and tell everyone to go to 
hell.
Similar to the arguments en
countered while discussing quota 
systems are those found in discus
sions about the E.R.A. The 
E.R.A. serves as a paradigm for 
progressive legislature which 
under scrutiny turns out to be 
anything but progressive. Argu
ments pro and con for E.R.A. us
ually contain phrases like equal 
pay for equal work or men and 
women really arent equal. Rare
ly does one hear the more funda
mental question asked: By what 
right does the government force 
me to pay women equally?
Discussions of quota systems 
and the E.R.A. consist mainly of 
superficial and emotional reason
ing rather than intellectual reason
ing. Of course, if you argue 
against quota systems or the 
E.R.A. you often times receive a 
raised eyebrow which translates to 
English as You are against 
quotas, therefore, you are a rac
ist or You are against the 
E.R.A., therefore you are a male 
chauvinist pig.
I think that if I were a black or 
a woman beleaguered by discrim
ination I would say, I am an in
dividual. I offer you nothing but 
my competence. If you do not 
pay me what I deserve, I will go 
elsewhere. If you refuse to hire 
me because of some silly preju
dice, and continue to hire incom
petents you will soon go out of 
business, to be replaced by some
one more rational. I am repre
senting no group. I am only me.
If I were black I would not 
consider Martin Luther King a 
hero, for he insisted that the 
world pay attention to the strug
gle of blacks as a group, rather 
than properly pleading for their 
consideration as viable individuals.
However, quota systems and 
the E.R.A. are just two examples 
of the cancerous solidarity fe
ver sweeping over our country. 
Id like to take time to mention a 
few more.
Ralph Nader speaks on my be
half (without my permission) 
when he professes himself to be 
the spokesman of the American 
consumer. Among other things 
that we can thank Nader for is the 
fact that a new automobile has 
about a 50-50 chance of starting 
in the morning if it does start, and 
if you can tolerate the warning 
buzzer that pobably wont go off 
when it should, you had better be 
careful where you park. If you 
park over dry leaves there is a de
cent chance that your catalytic 
converter will start a fire. Nader is 
responsible for many government 
controls of the form: Thou shalt 
not pollute. The private rather 
than governmental solution to the 
same problem would be: You 
had better stop polluting or well 
stop buying your products. Eco
nomic boycott is the proper (and 
most powerful) way to initiate 
business policy changes.
Yes, Nader is a national hero 
while at the same time the man 
who said Let the public be 
damned is considered a criminal, 
or at the very least a prime ex
ample of a capitalistic monster. 
Yet J.P. Morgan and men like him 
(Mellon, Carnegie, etc.) have done 
more for the public good than all
the social workers of the world 
combined, plus 10,000 Ralph 
Naders. (And you can even throw 
in a few Wayne Van Dynes).
Coal miners making $18,000 a 
year go on strike, claiming to be 
the worlds most indispensable hu
mans, and demand sympathy 
from an associate professor of 
Physics earning $16,000 a year. 
Its irrelevant that the professor 
has nine years of college educa
tion and has probably forgotten 
more things than the miner 
knows; it is only important that 
coal miners are guaranteed a de
cent living.
One trucking union goes on 
strike claiming its wages, which 
are comparable to those of an El
ectrical Engineer, are too low. It 
then proceeds to demonstrate its 
commitment to the public good 
by shooting off of bridges with 
high powered rifles. Who should 
you root for, Bill Hills mindless 
idiots (F.A.S.H.) or the rival un
ion (TEAMSTERS) whose prev
ious leaders have been liked to or
ganized crime?
Big business, which is either 
hurt most (railroads ) or helped 
most (telephone companies) by 
government over-regulation is not 
guiltless. The steel industry is look
ing for import quotas rather than 
becoming competitive through 
increased productivity. Who gave 
the government the right to pre
vent me from purchasing foreign 
steel?
More and more the government 
continues its Orwellian squeeze 
into our lives. Today the idea of 
wage and price controls, under the 
guise of Keynesian Economics, 
are discussed without the blink of 
an eye. In fact, if Keynes could 
see the extent of government reg
ulation in peace-time he would 
roll over in his grave.
I would probably receive fewer 
than 10 votes if I ran for presi
dent, but if I was ever elected I 
would, on my first day in office:
1) Abolish the income tax
2) Turn the Postal Service over
to private enterprise
3) Abolish most of the cabinet 
positions and their associat
ed bureaucracies.
4) Abolish all Affirmative Ac
tion plans
5) Remove tariffs
6) Decontrol industry (Includ
ing deregulation of natural gas 
and oil, simplification of li
censing procedures for Nu
clear Power plants, and al
lowing competition among 
utilities)
7) Encourage the construction 
of private schools so that 
public education costs are 
decreased.
This ambitious legislation 
would start us on the road back to 
a rational society.
There is a sick tendency among 
many Americans to label people 
who think as I do as reactionaries 
or anarchists. These people prefer 
the security of a controlled socie
ty. I do not understand this dis
easeit is by far the most perplex
ing concept Ive ever considered. 
It is some form of philosophical 
cancer. I have a hunch, that you 
could catch a glimpse of its nature 
if you could explain why T.V. 
shows like Mork and Mindy or 
Threes Company are among 
the most popular on the air. To 
me, it is incomprehensible that 
anyone would watch these shows 
more than once.
During the war, bumper stick
ers sprouted that read: America, 
love it or leave it. Until this year 
I had been a member of C.M.U.s 
R.O.T.C., which I had mistaken
ly conceived to be a proper way 
of paying for an education. One 
reason that I am glad to be out of 
R.O.T.C. (other than the fact that 
it was a philosophical nightmare 
for an anti-solidarity person like 
myself) is that I could never fight 
for America, for it has no ideals 
left that are worth fighting for. If 
there was any place better, Id 
leave tomorrow. I dont love 
America. I love what it was, and I 
love even more what it could have 
been.more Letters
my ASE II course did not apply 
itself to this definition and I feel 
it was a waste of my time.
' The question is, Why cant
someone attend a  lesser  school 
for less money and achieve the 
same results? These schools 
teach technology just as well as 
CMU, maybe better. Most of 
what I learn here is from my 
textbooks or what the teach
er repeats from the textbooks. 
Very little is taught from the 
teachers experience as an Engi
neer. You might go so far to say 
that a proper reading list with the 
time and drive to study it could 
accomplish the same thing. After 
all, that is how you must keep up 
with technology when you leave 
here, by reading. True, the ASE 
courses may give you an edge in 
the job market but not that big an 
edge and these one or two courses 
are not worth the greater amounts 
of money this school demands. 
I ven ASE can be learned from a 
book. To some extent, the above 
cited book is a perfect example.
All this was on the theoretical 
side. On the practical side I can 
see that employers look to the 
universities for a qualifing of stu
dents in the form of grades and a 
proper curriculum. Again, why 
should this university be able to 
judge students any better than 
other, less expensive ones? Are we 
paying for the name only and the 
connotations it carries into the 
job market? I know a good many
people who, when asked why 
they came here say, in essence, 
that this school has a good name 
or reputation. A good name or 
reputation for what? All schools 
teach technology, and for the 
most part equally well; the only 
place to learn engineering is on 
the job.
This argument applies to all so 
called  elite  schools, not just 
CMU. Perhaps on the graduate 
level these schools show their 
worth but on the undergraduate 
level j I wonder if we are being 
shortchanged. Im asking the 
college community, students and
faculty, am I right, wrong, or am I 
missing something?
David S. McGhee 
CIV-E Junior
Thanks
Editor:
Id like to say thanks to the 
Alumni Association for a fantas
tic time on Saturday night.
Sincerely, 
A Grateful Senior 
Thanks, but why only Us? 
Editor:
A few days ago each of us recieved a copy of the letter below; 
To: Zone D Housekeeping
Employees (Night Turn)
From: J. Brown, Supervisor 
Date: January 10, 1979 
Subject: Letter of Appreciation
On behalf of Director Corletti 
and myself, I would like to extend 
appreciation for your fine work at 
attendance, cooperation, and the 
overall good job you did for the 
University in 1978. I am especial
ly pleased with the special work 
effort during the past several 
months, when it became necessary
for each of you to assist your fel
low employees. I believe each of 
you are responsible for making 
Zone D an effective work unit.
Thanks again for a job weU 
done and may you and your fami
lies have a very good new year.
To say we appreciated it is 
purely an understatement, be
cause we did. However, there are 
other janitors who did not get a 
letter from their supervisor and 
they are curious to know why Jim 
Brown gave us (those janitors who 
work for him in the Zone D area) 
a letter of appreciation  would 
you be so kind as to call Jim 
Brown and ask him why he did 
this?
Respectfully, 
Custodians from 
Zone D Area
Editors Note: The TARTAN 
contacted Mr. Brown after mid
night one evening (during his 
shift) and he told us that his 
motives in writing the letter were 
purely to **praise where praise is 
due.  He said, They help me get
the job done, and I appreciate 
that. Some people look at custo
dians and give them no respect. 
They're not nobodies. They do a 
mighty nice job and I wanted 
them to know I was aware of that. 
I gave the men in my zone letters 
and it would be up to the other 
supervisors to do what they see fit 
in the other areas. I just wanted 
my men to know how I felt.  
Now, My Turn
Editor:
After reading the last few 
rounds of finger-pointing on race 
relations, Im ready to do some of 
my own. One letter asserts that no 
one owes anyone anything. While 
that may by the majority opin
ion, I disagree. I believe genera
tions leave a legacy, a heritage. 
The concept of inheritance is well 
established as it applies to individ
uals. An heir inherits both the 
wealth and debts of an estate. 
This idea is so firmly embodied 
throughout the western world (at 
least) that I must ask why we 
cannot understand the principle as 
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Carol Brightman is a former editor of Viet-Report, and now teaches at LaGuardia Community College in Brooklyn, N.Y.VIEWS
igiHniiHmiiitsusnnHnmiiniiiiiiiiiiHWiiiiiHiiiiHMMiiHUiMiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHintiiiiiiiiHiiiiHiiiiiHUiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiniiimHiniiimii'
FOOD SERVICE COUPON
  
THE PERFECT SOLUTION
 to help extend your food budget 
to supplement your meal contract 
to avoid carrying extrG cash around campus
  
THE FOOD SERVICE COUPON BOOK
Frank Esposito graduated from 
high school in Brooklyn in 1968, 
and went off to the war. He re
turned to depressing job pro
spects, and to a bureaucracy 
seemingly dedicated to denying 
him his tuition assistance bene
fits. He also came back with a 
bad drinking problem and a lot 
of bad memories. His answer has 
been to repress the memories: 
Theres a whole generation, a 
whole chunk of time, thats been 
junked.
Talking with Frank Esposito, 
you begin to understand why the 
entertainment industry has been 
loath to produce movies about 
Vietnam. Those it has produced 
have been presented as love stories 
(<Coming Home), comedy (The 
Boys In Company C), or high ep
ic adventure (Apocalypse Now), 
not as chronicles of war.
It is a war, after all, in which 
many people have a strong stake 
in forgetting. The truth about its 
conduct may tell us things about 
our society and ourselves that 
are not pleasant to ponder. Yet 
it is precisely this evasion of his
tory that opens the war to com
mercial exploitation. And Holly
wood, judging from its recent 
and approaching offerings, has 
finally caught on.
Coming Home and The Boys 
In Company C both did very well 
at the box office. Wholl Stop The 
Rain, the third of eight Vietnam 
movies scheduled for release in
mula, but like the personal focus 
of the film, more a product of the 
mid-70s than the 1960s.
I would have liked to have 
seen the movie much more rooted 
in the Tet Offensive period in 
Vietnam, Fonda said, but we 
couldnt find a way to do it that 
wouldnt come across as laying a 
message on people. When a vet
eran anti-war campaigner like 
Fonda must keep the pivotal 
events of 1968 out of a film about 
1968 for fear of laying a message 
on people, something is up.
In short, the post-Vietnam gen
eration that makes up the lions 
share of any audience leaves these 
pictures seeing nothing of the tre
mendous upheavals in American 
life caused by the war. They dont 
see the smashing of idols, the fall 
of the dollar and American credi
bility, the assassinations and at
tempted assassinations, the riots 
and rebellions in the inner cities 
and college towns, the break
downs in established authority 
and the onrush of repressive rhet
oric and laws.
Instead Vietnam and 1968, 
when the country finally went 
around the bend, emerge as fic
tion, caricatured as individuals 
toying with mental  not political 
or economic  forces. The trend 
reaches its most offensive incarna
tion in The Boys in Company C.
Produced by a huge Hong 
Kong-based conglomerate headed
1978-79, is also holding its own. 
Go Tell the Spartans, with Burt 
Lancaster, has been something of 
a disappointment, grossing less 
than $500,000 in its first seven 
weeks of play. The big Vietnam 
movie, Francis Ford Coppolas 
Apocalypse Now, has yet to ap
pear in theatres.
The story of how Apocalypse 
Now came to be made is emble
matic of Hollywoods collective 
hand-wringing over putting Viet
nam on film. Three years ago, 
United Artists hired Pat Caddell 
and Gerald Rafshoon, two of 
President Carters top public re
lations aids, to find out why 
people go to the movies and what 
their feelings are about the war.
The details of the report are 
secret. But insiders, who describe 
it as a massive intelligence re
port, say that Caddell and Raf
shoon discovered a deep reservoir 
of unease over the lack of any 
official accounting of losses in 
Vietnam. Uneasiness, of course, 
is seldom worth betting $30 
million on, but Coppolas film 
has indeed consumed that much 
money.
With Vietnam Caddell believes 
Coppola is trying to do what he 
did in The Godfather : not to have 
a movie that takes an extreme 
point of view at either end, but 
one thats an experience that 
touches a lot of different levels 
at once.
Its not political, confirms
John Milius, who wrote the origin
al screenplay in 1969. Its an 
adventure story (based on) the 
idea of white civilized men going 
into a place where they suddenly 
have enormous power. The tale 
is notably detached from trou
bling allusions to time and place, 
cause and effect. Though the plot 
is a well-guarded secret, it is 
roughly based on Joseph Conrads 
Heart of Darkness. An early script 
I have seen shows Apocalypse 
Now as a kind of Vietnam-era 
Lawrence of Arabia, hot on the 
sex and death trail.
Hal Ashbys Coming Home, 
though, does take a more politi
cal approach. Its the only Viet
nam picture so far that has por
trayed open resistance to the 
wars demands, which were as 
much a part of the era as the sur
render to violence and disillusion
ment. Yet Coming Home reflects 
the periods tumultuous social 
changes only in individual terms.
Starring Jane Fonda, Bruce 
Dern, and Jon Voight, Coming 
Home turns out to be a cathartic 
love story about Vietnam. Fonda 
is Sally Hyde, an officers lonely 
wife nightingaling at a VA hos
pital. She collides with Luke Mar
tin (Voight) on his rolling stretch
er, smashes his support hardware, 
begs forgiveness. Out of such be
ginnings, only true love conquers. 
Their relationship is patient, re
spectful, restrained by a husband 
(Dern) at war. Its a timeless foris having a trip to
SEVEN SPRINGS ! !
FRIDAY, February 2, 1979 
The bus will leave Skibo parking lot at 3:00 FM 
and will return about ls00 AM.
The cost for the bus and lift ticket is $10.00 
for members and $11.00 for non-members.
Rental is an additional $4.25.
If you are interested, sign up will be at the 
Skibo Information Desk this week.
For more information, please contact:
Neil 687-4782 
Leroy 578-4231 
Carla 578-4226 
SEE YOU THERE i
Funded by Student Senate
by Raymond Chow (of Kung-Fu 
fame), this Golden Harvest Pro
duction takes five all-American 
boys, standard brand, through in
duction, basic training (where 
pussies turn into men) and on 
into combat, where its all high 
jinks going downhill.
Since only our team is on 
camera, there is a certain loss of 
tension, of truth. We still dont 
know what hit us. In fact, 
a total stranger to history might 
well leave his neighborhood 
theatre possessed of the extra
ordinary idea that the origins 
of the war, the ferocity of its con
duct, the death and mutilation of 
so many, lay in the psyche of the 
American soldier.
For in these movies (and in 
memoirs like Dispatches), this 
is where the war is being dumped. 
Even in Coming Home, Vietnam 
appears as a kind of freefloating 
nightmare from which only the 
fortunate few awaken.
Nowhere in these movies do we 
meet the folks who brought us the 
Great Southeast Asian War, or see 
the reasons for it. Nor do we see 
the enemy, the people whose 
30 year fight for independence 
loomed so large in the minds of 
American policy makers that, to 
extinguish it, they were willing 
to risk their own political sur
vival and the lives of three mil
lion Americans in Vietnam.
SPECIAL SALE
FOR THE VONTH OF FEBRUARY
$20,00 worth o 
SI0.00 worth 
May be purchas---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
continued from page 3
applied to a community.
Every man, woman, child in 
this country has inherited from 
past generations. This means that 
we have all, to some degree, 
reaped the benefits (wealth) and 
endured suffering (debt). My dis
comfort is over the distribution of 
the good and the bad. I feel that 
America does owe Blacks some
thing. An analogy: If you were 
held against your will and forced 
to work for someone who paid 
you nothing, you would feel 
wronged. You, of course could 
prosecute your holder for kidnap
ping. You would also seek your 
fair share of the profits he made. 
You might also sue for mental 
stress and punitive damages.
Well, folks, Blacks have not 
asked for punitive damages. We 
have borne that ourselves, as have
many ethnic groups. For the most 
part thats been our share of the 
inheritance. We have inherited the 
slave mentality. ( If youre con
fused, go back to your 85-101 
text Psychology and Life and 
read chapter 9). We have also in
herited poverty and poor educa
tion. I do not imply that no one 
else has, but that most of US 
have.
What affirmative action, pre
ferential treatment, reverse dis
crimination, or whatever you care 
to call it is all about is redistri
buting some of that inheritance to 
the heirs of people who rightfully 
deserve some of it. What of immi
grants who arrived after slavery? 
They were lead here because 
American business needed labor. 
Thus, they earned their piece of 
the pie. Do they owe deprived Americans anything? Yes. Yes!
Would there have been jobs for 
them to come to had not all the 
contributors (slaves among them) 
contributed. By coming to this 
country, your ancestors inherited 
(or tried to inherit) a full share of 
our heritage, legacy, and estate.
Exercise: Compute the present 
value of approximately 250 years 
of slave labor (not paid for) and 
approximately 100 years of labor 
at wage rates of 15-70% lower 
than the average wage rate. 
Express this sum as a percentage 
of the net worth of America. We 
didnt file any criminal charges 
either.
Aaron J. Johnson 
EE. Class of 1980 
We Fall Down Too! 
Editor:
I have now been at CMU for 
over three years. Over those years 
I have frolicked in many a snow
storm but even though these 
storms tend to be great for stu
dent morale they tend to create 
very dangerous conditions for 
walking around this campus.
In particular I mean the priori
ty system for cleaning off the 
campus sidewalks after a blizzard. 
It appears that every time it 
snows the first place you see the 
greenmen of Tech is cleaning off 
the stairs and patio surrounding 
Warner Hall. It is nice to know 
that they dont want anything to 
happen to President Cyert, but do 
they have to clean all four sets of 
steps? Isnt one enough? While the 
greenmen are busy cleaning off 
Warner Hall, students are carefully 
negotiating their way through 
snowdrifts trying to make it to 
classes without breaking their 
necks on any one of the many 
campus stairways that have low
priority but high usage.
But to make the situation even 
worse, areas of campus housing 
appear to have the lowest priority 
for snow removal. Few of the 
sidewalks are ever cleaned and 
many of the stairways in the 
dormitory and fraternity areas are 
totally ignored. Trudging to 
classes through one-foot-deep
slush, I have become accustomed 
to but I find stairways like sliding 
boards to be outright dangerous.
Name withheld upon request
The TARTAN welcomes lettersto-the-editor from the entire 
campus community. The letters 
should be signed and cannot be 
printed otherwise. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Mail let
ters to Box 17, campus mail, or 
drop them off at the offices of 
the TARTAN in Skibo.
All-star lineup.
Slimline TI-50Slimline TI-25
TI-55
Performance and price are the keys in choosing a calculator. 
One of these Texas Instruments slide-rules is right for you.
Capability. Quality. Value. The right 
combination can help you make short 
work of problems in fields like math, 
engineering, science and business 
statistics and give you more time for 
other important things. Choose the Tl 
calculator thats right for you and get 
ahead of the game.
TI-55. Advanced slide-rule functions with 
statistics, programmability and valuable 
problem-solving applications book.
The versatile TI-55 calculating system 
is packed with the features and func
tions you need to handle almost any 
mathematical operation, from loga
rithms and trigonometry to advanced 
statistical problems. Thirty-two steps 
of programmability add new dimen
sions of accuracy, speed and ease to 
performing repetitive calculations and 
what-if analyses. You just teach the 
TI-55 a series of operations and it per
forms those steps for you.
For more help in making quantitative decisions, the 
TI-55 comes with 
the Calculator De
cision - Making 
Sourcebook, a $5.00 
value. The book, 140 
pages of easy-tounderstand, reallife applications,
shows you how to use the power of 
statistics, financial math and program
mability in analyzing relationships in 
data, verifying quality and perfor
mance, measuring change, forecast
ing trends and projecting returns...in 
short, how to make better decisions, 
today and tomorrow. Calculator and 
book combination, only $50.00*.
Slimline TI-50. A powerful, stylish slide-rule 
with new Constant Memory feature.
The pocket-portable Slimline TI-50 is 
todays most powerful liquid crystal 
display (LCD) slide-rule calculator. It 
has 60 functions including common 
and natural logarithms and six trigo
nometric operations that can be per
formed in three angular modes (de
grees, radians or grads).
Seven built-in statistical functions 
make it easy to boil down large 
amounts of data so you can perform 
accurate analyses and draw reliable 
conclusions.
Two constant memories retain their 
contents even when the calculator is 
turned off, so frequently used con
stants and other basic values are at 
your fingertips when you need them.
Two miniature batteries provide 
over 1000 hours of operation in normal 
use; Tls APD automatic powerdown
feature helps prevent accidental bat
tery drain by turning off the calculator 
after approximately 10 minutes of 
non-use. With imitation leather wallet, 
$40.00*.
Slimline TI-25. Slide-rule power at a small 
price.
Economy and value go hand-in-hand 
with the Slimline TI-25, a pocketportable LCD scientific calculator that 
has what it takes to handle advanced 
math. It provides the most-needed 
slide-rule functions. Trigonometry in 
degrees, radians or grads. Plus basic 
statistical power, too: Mean, Variance, 
Standard Deviation.
Three levels of parentheses can 
handle up to three pending operations 
to make your work easier. Four-key 
memory allows you to store and recall 
values, add-to memory contents and 
exchange stored and displayed 
numbers.
The TI-25 goes far on a pair of min
iature batteriesincludes APD cir
cuitry. Vinyl wallet included, $33.00*.
See the complete lineup of Texas 
Instruments slide-rule 
calculators at your dealer 
today. Theres one ex
actly right for the work 
youre doing.
U S suggest] retri prie
 1979 fexas Instruments Incorporate)
Texas Instruments technology-bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips.
VIEWS nSgierIngS
INCORPORATED45628

---------------------------------------------------

page 6 - TARTAN - January 3Q, 1979
Engineering & Computer Science Majors
WATCH FOR THE HUGHES RECRUITER VISITING YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
Contact your placement office for interview dates.
HUGHES
i____________________________i-i
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Europe Offers Employment
The following is a press release received 
by the TARTAN. The Editors pass it along 
to any interested CMU students.
Job opportunities in Europe this sum
mer. . . Work this summer in the forests 
of Germany, on construction in Austria, on 
farms in Germany, Sweden and Denmark, 
in industries in France and Germany, in 
hotels in Switzerland.
For twenty years students made their 
way across the Atlantic through A.E.S. Ser
vice to take part in the actual life of the 
people of these countries. The success of 
this project has caused a great deal of en
thusiastic interest and support both in 
America and Europe. Every year, the pro
gram has been expanded to include many 
more students and jobs. Already, many stu
dents have made application for next 
summer jobs. AmericanEuropean Stud
ent Service (on a non-profitable basis) is 
offering these jobs to students for Ger
many, Scandinavia, England, Austria, 
Switzerland, France, Italy, and Spain. 
The jobs consist of forestry work, child 
care work (females only), farm work, hotel
Let your favorite graduate 
know how you feel !
Buy a patron ad in
the THISTLE
5 words for $3.50 
10 words for $6.00
Just fill in: 
MESSAGE:
Name:
Local Address
And return to Skibo Information Desk 
by February 6, with payment.
work (limited number available), construc
tion work, and some other more qualified 
jobs requiring more specialized training.
The purpose of this program is to afford 
the student an opportunity to get into real 
living contact with the people and customs 
of Europe. In this way, a concrete effort 
can be made to learn something of the cul
ture of Europe. In return for his or her 
work, the student will receive his or her 
room and board, plus a wage. However, 
students should keep in mind that they will 
be working on the European economy and 
wages will naturally be scaled accordingly. 
The working conditions (hours, safety, reg
ulations, legal protection, work permits) 
will be strictly controlled by the labor min
istries of the countries involved.
In most cases, the employers have re
quested especially for American students. 
Hence, they are particuarly interested in the 
student and want to make the work as in
teresting as possible.
They are all informed of the intent of 
the program, and will help the student all 
they can in deriving the most from his trip 
to Europe.
Please write for further information and 
application forms to: AmericanEuropean 
Student Service, Box 70, FL 9493 Mauren, Liechtenstein (Europe).
Writers Wanted
The Admissions Office is looking for 
students to contribute short reflections of 
their years here at CMU. The views will be 
printed in Reflections, a smart new pub
lication the Admissions Staff is sending out 
to high school seniors.
Students interested in contributing 
should contact Debbie Mall, Assistant Dir
ector of Admissions. For more information 
and some examples from last years book, 
turn to the FOLIO section, page 20.
THE YELLOW 
6-SIDED BUILDING
That yellow painted cement block 6- 
sided building on Forbes Ave. just off Craig 
is The Lutheran University Center. Inside 
there is action - it's a Lutheran ministry in a 
learning society. On the second floor is a 
unique chapel with regular Sunday worship 
services at 10:30 a.m. Students are invited 
to prepare and assist in the liturgy. Ad
joining areas are a library, conversational 
and study niches. Seminars, discussion 
groups and counseling are daily activities. 
On the first floor is a lunch room, serving 
healthful, less than a dollar lunch menus 
five days a week.
On Friday night at 8, the doors open to 
The Alternative Coffee House. En
tertainment is by talented musicians and ar
tists well known locally. You may join the 
roster of artists if you with to share youtalent. Call Dr. Richard Salty" Salsgiver - 
Tel. 363-8156 (in the evening).
Its all music for February: by Mat 
Miskie, Jonathan Gates, Connie and Hutch 
and a group called Sunrise, featuring con
temporary folk, jazz and old timey
With the music and artists there are 
refreshments in special blends of coffee and 
tea, snacks, and sweets.
Choose The Alternative to begin a happy 
weekend. Use its facilities and meet Pastor 
Sampsell and his group of energetic volun 
teers who are always "in action." Come 
brinq a friend. Make a date for this Friday at 
8
Any questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE?

---------------------------------------------------

January 30, 1979  TARTAN  page 7
Eight Groups Forget 
Budgets
by Scott Sibley
Senate is now making preparations for 
budgeting for next year. Allocations re
quested by the various organizations are 
printed elsewhere in this issue of the TAR
TAN.
On Sunday, February 4 at 4:00 PM, the 
Senate Finance Committee will hold an 
open forum for students to voice their 
opinions on the requested subsidies. 
Budget hearings will begin on Wednesday 
February 7.
There are eight clubs that have not sub
mitted budgets at this time. Mary Ann 
Lawton, Finance Chairperson, reports that 
these clubs have not been scheduled for 
budget hearings and will not be given any 
sort of priority in the budgetary process.
Senate now has approximately $30,000 
in unallocated funds from this year. The 
possibility of including this money in the 
budget process is being investigated.
The General Campus & Information 
Committee is investigating the possiblity 
of a campus lounge area. Anyone with 
ideas or suggestions should contact Carl 
Freedman.
The Academic Affairs Committee is 
working with Ruth Corrigan, Director of 
University Libraries, on improvements 
for the library system. Currently, plans for 
creating a casual reading area in Hunt Li
brary are being reviewed. According to 
Eric Anderson, Corrigan fees that stu
dents dont know how to use the library 
and what we have. This is a significant 
cause of the feeling that our libraries are 
inadequate. She requests that students ask 
for assistance when they cant find some
thing.
The next Senate meeting is tonight at 
7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room.
Discipline . . .
continued from page 1
property were found guilty and fined 
accordingly, with the latter two parties 
being placed on probation for specified 
periods of time.
In the remaining four cases, the students 
charged entered pleas of guilty and paid 
the fines for their particular offenses.
The CMU Student Handbook states that 
The University attempts to guarantee due 
process in all disciplinary procedures. 
Consequently, students charged with viola
tion of University regulations must be 
afforded a prompt hearing, notified in 
writing of the specific violation (charged 
with), and given full notification of com
plaints, hearings and disposition of 
charges with the right to be present 
through all hearing procedures. Students 
charged also have the right to have other 
students, faculty members, or legal counsel 
appear at any hearing. Other student rights 
include the rights to remain silent through
out the disciplinary process, and the rights 
to confidential proceedings.
The Handbook also outlines the 
Jurisdiction process, stating the Univer
sity Committee on Discipline will rule on 
all appeals from action originating in 
student courts and will have original 
jurisdiction over infractions of academic 
regulations.
STUDENTS DORMITORY COUNCIL PRIVATE PAkTYTUND 
REGULATIONS AMENDED SPRING 1978
1) Any group containing a substantial number of dorm resi
dents may request permission to use an SDC lounge. A lounge may 
be reserved for a private party or other event by contacting the 
Vice-President of SDC of that area at least three days prior to the 
event. Reservations will be made on a first-come, first-serve basis. 
Notices that a lounge has been reserved must be placed on the 
entrances to the lounge at least three days prior to the event. 
Failure to do so may result in revocation of permission to use the 
lounge.
2) The persons or group sponsoring the, event are responsible 
for the behavior of all guests and are liable for any damages to 
rugs, furnishings, building, etc. They are also responsible for 
making sure that the event does not infringe upon the rights of any 
resident.
3) The use of an SDC lounge for the performance of a musical 
group is specifically prohibited. Special exceptions to this provi
sion may be made at the discretion of an SDC Vice-President.
4) All events held in SDC lounges are to terminate by 1:30 
AM, unless special permission has been obtained in advance from 
an SDC Vice-President and the Division of Student Affairs.
5) Any officer may terminate any event held in an SDC lounge 
for any violation of the preceeding regulations.
6) A Vice-President of SDC is to notify Security of the time 
and place of the even whenever an SDC lounge has been reserved.
7) A private party fund is to be established by SDC each 
year. It is to be divided into two half segments, one for each 
semester.
8) Funds will be made available to groups containing at 
least six dorm residents at the rate of .75 per resident. A 
petition containing the names and addresses of residents involved 
is to be presented to any officer of SDC at least three days prior 
to the event. The money will be paid after the event upon present
ation of receipts to a Vice-President or the Treasurer of SDC.
9) No person may be represented on more than one private 
party petition during a semester. Any person not complying with
this provision will automatically be delted trom the petition 
before the payment is made.
10) No person will be allowed to transfer his/her private party 
fund allocation to a different segment.
11) No money will be paid to groups which do not comply 
with the preceeding regulations, or with any university 
regulations.
12) A two-thirds vote of SDC will be required to vary any of 
these regulations.
AMENDMENTS
AMENDMENT 1: DELETED BY A UNANIMOUS VOTE OFl 
COUNCIL.
AMENDMENT 2: Money may be collected at the advertised parties 
but payment of the money by the dormitory students attending 
cannot be manditory.
AMENDMENT 3: For any private party petition containing more 
than fifty signatures, the location of the party must be approved 
by the SDC Vice-President of that area.
AMENDMENT 4: All signatures on a private party petition must 
be legible in order to be validated.
AMENDMENT 5: DEFINITION OF A PRIVATE PARTY: A pri 
vate party is any dorm party which is not organized by SDC. There 
are two types of private parties: advertised and unadvertised. 
AMENDMENT 6: Unadvertised parties are not required to be open 
to all dorm students, only to those who were personally invited by 
the organizers of the party.
AMENDMENT 7: Advertised parties are those which have been 
publicized. These parties must be open and free to all dorm stu 
dents.
AMENDMENT 8: Vice-Presidents must inspect all advertised par 
ties in their area.
AMENDMENT 9: Party Petitions will be on a form that will be 
designed by SDC. These forms will be available from the Vice-Pre 
sidents.
AMENDMENT 10: Party Regulations must be presented once 
semester in the school newspaper, within the first two weeks of 
each semester. _______________
Circulation Improved
continued from page 1
smelliest experiments. Kay also 
offerred his opinion that more people 
would name cigarette smoke, more than 
anything else on campus, as the primary 
trespasser on their airspace.
Engineering Dean Herb Toor mentioned 
plans for minor renovations for the chemi
cal and electrical engineering labs in Doher
ty and Hammerschlag Halls. He was think
ing of new hoods for containing vapors.
Toor also clarified a point concerning 
the $200,000 plan for improving the air 
quality in EEs semiconductor lab. This 
project is only a strong intention at this 
point, until we know exactly what its 
going to cost. Some of the money, 
continued Toor, has been set aside.
Physical Plants Joe McNally explained 
how funds become available for capital 
improvements of this kind. Upon 
notification of a department heads con
cern, Physical Plant will design a remedy 
and estimate its cost. The department 
head then requests that amount from his 
dean, who has the responsibilty of 
obtaining the funds from Warner Hall.
AtTh*
Recent Graduates (May 78-July 79)
In
ENGINEERING DATA PROCESSING BUSINESS A MANAGEMENT
Weve Invited A Few People To Talk With You About Your CAREER. 
LENDMAN ASSOCIATES CAREER CONFERENCE
FEBRUARY 9th & 10th IN PITTSBURGH
Being held at a major Pittsburgh Hotel on FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9th and SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 10th 
LENDMAN ASSOCIATES has invited over 40 MAJOR U S CORPORATIONS to attend THIS CAREER 
CONFERENCE, these companies will be actively hiring candidates for various ENTRY LEVEL 
ENGINEERING, DATA PROCESSING BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT POSITIONS in the local area as 
well as nationwide
OUTSTANDING GROUND FLOOR OPPORTUNITIES ARE BEING OFFERED IN THE FOLLOWING 
AREASOPERATIONS RESEARCH SYSTEMS/ANALYSTS/ PROGRAMMERS MICROPROCESSORS
PRODUCTION SUPERVISION PROCESS CONTROL PROCESS ENGINEERING
SALESMANAGEMENTPRODUCTION SUPERVISION
PLUS MANY OTHERS
YOU will be able to interview with company representatives of your choice, all in one location, ALL AT 
NO COST OR OBLIGATION TO YOU ALL COMPANIES ARE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS 
AND MINORITY & FEMALE CANDIDATES ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY
To register for this conference, please send immediately, 10 copies of your resume (which will be 
reviewed by the attending companies) to
Mr Gordon K HaggettLENDMAN ASSOCIATES, LTD.
Mid-Atlantic Region, P O Box 62682 
Virginia Beach. Virginia 23462 
(804)497-8971
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR'S HOTLINE. X2127; Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 8 - TARTAN - January 30, 1979
Architects Featured in Scaife Show
by Stuart Seidman
After four weeks of very hard work, the 
student show by the Department of Archi
tecture will be opening this Thursday at 
the Scaife Gallery of the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute. The show will be of
ficially opened Thursday evening at 5:00 
with a cocktail party. A long list of Pitts
burgh executives and civic leaders have 
been invited to the opening and Mayor 
Caliguiri of Pittsburgh will be present to 
offically cut the ribbon to the Entrance 
Gallery.
In conjunction with the shows opening 
this week, two people who have projects in 
the show will be appearing on WTAEs^lM 
Pittsburgh on Thursday morning. Briar
Tomlinson, a masters student and Paul 
Ostergard, a 1977 graduate, will be appear
ing on the TV show to discuss their pro
jects. Briar was recently involved with de
signing a facility for the Heinz Hall Plaza 
site on Liberty Avenue. In the spring of 
1977 Paul worked on a design for a hotel 
to be across the street from the new Con
vention Center. The city just purchased the 
site the students used and is currently 
looking for a developer to build a hotel.
There has recently been an increasing 
level of dissension within the students of 
the department to how the faculty has 
handled the show. When the show was first 
announced last December, student enIK PRIZES
1979 LIBERTY SCHOLARSHIP ESSAY CONTEST
OPEN TO ALL HIGH SCHOOL AND 
UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE STUDENTS
ENTRY DEADLINE: JUNE 11979
In honor of the recent publication of Murray N. Rothbard's 
provocative new book. For a New Liberty (The Macmillan Co., 
1976), the Cato Institute is sponsoring the 1979 Liberty Scholarship 
Essay Contest. Through this important program, the institute 
seeks to encourage a more active discussion of the role human 
freedom should play in contemporary public-poiicy decisions.
Students in the high school and college divisions are invited to 
submit original essays on the topic, "What should the status of 
liberty be in today's America?" after having read Professor 
Rothbard's remarkable work. A distinguished panel of judges 
will then select four contest winners in each division.
For complete information and Contest Entry Form, please de
tach and return this coupon to: Liberty Essay Contest, Cato Insti
tute, 1700 Montgomery Street, Son Francisco, CA 94111.
YES! Please rush me complete information 
on the 1979 Liberty Scholarship Essay Con
test plus one copy of Murray N. Rothbard's 
exciting new book. For a New Liberty, at the 
Special Discount Price of $2.95 (50% dis
count). Full payment is enclosed.
Name
Address
City .StateZip
SchoolPhone
thusiasm was high. However, as work began 
on preparing the 28 projects to be presen
ted, conflicts began to arise between 
work for the show and academics. The 
way it was organized was poor and it didnt 
do what it could have, one student com
mented.
The students dissension to the show is
coming on top of another failure in the 
search for a permanent head for the archi
tecture department. A search committee 
that Fine Arts Dean Akram Madani organ
ized back in March was supposed to submit 
recommendations for a new head by Jan
uary but that deadline has passed. The De
partment of Architecture has had an act
ing head now for 32 months.
SDC Elections To Be Held
Students Dorm Council is having 
elections to fill council vacancies this 
Wednesday January 31. and Thursday Feburary 1. Any resident student is eligible 
to be put on the ballot by submitting 
properly filled out forms to Skibo Infor
mation Desk by Tuesday January 30.
SDC needs students to help improve
the dorms by active participation in 
the organization. SDC provides low cost 
movies to the student body, pays for the 
cost and use of the Dorms televsion sets, 
throws free parties and dances for the 
dorm students and voices the dorm 
students problems to the proper 
authorities.
Budget Hearing Scheduled
Each year, Student Senate allocates funds to student organizations from the Student 
Activities Fee. The Finance Committee of Student Senate will be hearing the budgets of 
Funded Organizations during the month of February. Below is a list of organizations 
who have submitted budgets, their subsidy allocation from Senate for this year and their 
subsidy request for next year. In an attempt to get some student input about the 
amount of funding received by the different organizations, an open hearing will be h^.d 
on Sunday, February 4 from 4:00 PM. to 5:30 PM. in Skibo Room 12 for anyone inter
ested in expressing their opinions on these budgets.
1978-791979-80
AllocatedProposed Allocation
Activities Board$55,885$66,975
Astronomy Club290160
Baseball Club3,0453,535
Chess Club165120
Computer Club1006,463
Explorers Club301431
Faculty Course Evaluation1,8002,200
Forbes Street Gallery2,7352,879
Club Francophone330500
Jazz Ensemble575575
Karate Club330337
Law Club507490
Pathfinder Orienteering Club379223
Peer Help1,2301,305
Rent-A-Tech4221,038
Ski Club115130
Student Government Fund3,0003,000
Student Senate2,7553,500
Tech Flying Club335335
Tartan16,01622,904
Ultimate Frisbee363420
WRCT10,45724,689
Engineering & Computer Science Majors
DONT 
GRADUATE
without talking to the 
Hughes Recruiter visiting 
your campus soon. 
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
HUGHES
______________________________ICreating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
CALL 57S-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

________________________FEATUR ES
Art Supplies Cause Health Hazards
by Elliot Ohlberg
The following is largely based on the 
Health Hazards Manual for Artists, by Dr. 
Michael McCann.
Are the materials you are working with 
slowly killing you? Or maybe they are just 
going to make you chronically ill?
It seems that many artists create, with 
little regard for the health hazards inherent 
in the technology of their craft. In fact, 
many toxicologists (professionals who 
study the biochemistry of poisons) believe 
that chronic poisoning is more common 
among artists than is generally believed. Of 
course, this is not unique to artists, since 
more and more so-called safe substances 
are found not to be so safe. One problem 
is that diseases which result from long
term exposure are hard to diagnose be
cause the symptoms are vague and dont 
appear at the time of exposure. The 
immediate, acute-type of poisoning is more 
easily recognized.
Toxins can gain entry into the body via 
skin contact, breathing, or through the 
mouth and digestive system. Skin contact 
is the most frequent method, but it is the 
breathing of vapors and dusts which more 
often leads to harm of internal organs. 
For example, the welding fumes which 
result from overheating many plastics 
can immediately damage the lungs. On the 
other hand, inhalation of the dusts pro
duced from sanding wood and plastic 
sculptures, or silica dusts from clay and 
some stones, can cause chronic lung dis
eases such as pulmonary fibrosis, chronic 
bronchitis, or emphysema.
It is also true that cigarette smokers
are considerably susceptible to the de
leterious effects of poisons on the lungs.
The extent of damage to the body 
caused by toxic materials depends on the 
amount one is exposed to, length of 
exposure, and the actual toxicity of the 
substance involved. Artists should choose 
their materials with care since some pro
ducts are much less toxic than others.
In general, solvents are one of the most 
underrated hazards in art. They are used 
to: dissolve and mix oils, resins, varnishes, 
and inks; remove paint, varnish, and lac
quers; and clean tools, silkscreens, brushes, 
and hands.
Aromatic hydrocarbons, like benzene, 
are among the most dangerous solvents, ff 
drunk or inhaled in sufficient amounts, 
these can cause irreversible blood damage. 
Initial symptoms include weakness, fat
igue, palpitations, pale complexion, and 
anemia. If used with adequate ventilation, 
toluene is a suggested replacement for 
benzene since it is less toxic.
Aerosol sprays are widely used by ar
tists. Again, the fumes are very dangerous 
if inhaled. The fine mists often travel long 
distances before settling. In addition, the
propellants used in aerosol cans are often 
hazardous, in themselves.
The fumes from etching metals with ni
tric acid are very dangerous and result in 
fluid in the lungs at best. This is a tech
nique commonly used by intaglio students 
in CMUs Coal Research Building.
In Ceramics, it is important to avoid 
breathing in silica dust when handling 
clay in its dry form. The symptoms of
silicosis may take years to develop and in
clude shortage of breath and increased 
susceptibility to infections. Serious poison
ing can also result from breathing glazes 
which contain highly toxic metals like 
lead, antimony, chromium, maganese, 
nickel, and others.
There are all kinds of dangerous air 
contaminants released in the various 
sculpting techniques. Besides silica, sculp
tors must also be wary of wood dust, 
metallic fumes from welding, carbon monoxide from incomplete combustion of 
fuels, and the toxic gases released upon 
burning styrofoam or plastics.
The minimization of health risks can be
come a popular craze among artists. The 
best way to reduce a hazard is to find a less 
toxic substitute, if that is possible. And, as 
the Manual says, One of the most impor
tant factors in designing a studio  and one 
of the most neglected  is adequate ven
tilation.Sexuality Lecture Arousing
 A  n  1 j _ J ______ \ M___ _______11-----------  ---- --- w x r ham /ta ii/Mir v i inliftrby Susan Borg
On Thursday January 25, Pam Wiess, 
from the CMU Counseling Center, spoke 
on the Psychological Development of 
Sexual Systems. This was the second in a 
series of human sexuality lectures spon
sored by Residence Life and Campus 
Programming.
Ms. Weiss began before birth and traced 
the emergence of sexual identity through 
adulthood. She spoke about the effects of 
hormones and environment on the 
formation of ones sexual activities (not 
only in intercourse, but actual role be
havior) was a main part of her discussion, 
and she sited studies that showed evidence 
in both directions.
Weiss went on to say that our sexual 
identity controls our behavior on all levels. 
It determines how we relate to other 
people in all situations. If one feels locked 
into a sexual identity that is not com
fortable (i.e.- an artistic man in a construc
tion job because he was taught that men 
are not supposed to be sensitive artists) 
they do not usually discuss it. Many 
people, says Weiss, feel that if they to en
gage in an activity that is not traditionally 
for their sex, they must choose a gay life
style. There is nothing wrong with being 
gay, she clarified, but you should not 
feel you must be gay because you are in 
a non-traditional role.
Ms. Weiss then went on to talk about 
sexual identity in each sex. She said that 
developing a sexual identity has not been 
done equally in our society. Men have 
been made more attractive. An example 
of this is in childrens books. Men are 
almost always the hero while the woman 
stays behind. This, she says, is currently 
changing.
Another difference in sexual identity 
in men and women stems from attitudes
about our bodies. Men usually are more 
familiar with their sexual organs for the 
obvious reason that they are constantly 
seen, whereas the female genital area is 
hidden and therefore, more of a mystery.
Attitudes about our body come from 
very young childhood. A lot depends on 
whether you were allowed to touch your 
body as a child. Another important factor 
is how your parents handled your sexuality-i.e. did they tell you about the changes 
you were going through at puberty? The 
attitudes of your parents have a great 
bearing on how you will feel about your
body and hence, your sexuality.
Masturbation, said the counselor, is the 
best way to get to know your body. It 
alleviates tension while allowing you to 
explore. Masturbation can be a big help in 
gaining satisfaction from a sexual relation
ship because, says Weiss, if you know what 
feels good you can guide someone else.
In summary, Pam Weiss stressed that it 
is the caring and richness in a relationship 
that makes it special. If you are not com
fortable with your own sexuality you will 
not be able to fully give of yourself and 
accept all that a relationship has to offer.
TIDBITS
At the start of this semester, a consider
able number of texts were not available at 
the Bookstore. Even at this time, some 
books for this semester have not arrived.
In a recent statement, Irene Daugherty, 
Director of Campus Stores, apologized for 
the inconvenience and tried to account for 
the delay. Some of the factors that 
contributed to the problem were:
1) An increase of volume activity at the 
end of the Fall semester. This prevented 
removal of Fall tests and the restocking of 
Spring texts.
2) The shortened work period between 
semesters. Deliveries were significantly 
reduced between December 27 and 
January 2.
3) Late orders and inaccurate/insuf
ficient information in ordering. Publishers 
shipping errors and out of stock situations
also caused delays.
Daugherty explained some steps the 
Bookstore plans to take next year to 
prevent a recurrence of the delays. Next 
Fall, unsold books that wont be needed in 
the Spring will be removed from shelves by 
December 1. Book orders for the 1980 
Spring semester will be due October 2. 
Also, the store will be closed from 
December 22 to January 1 for restocking.
If anyone forsees a problem with these 
changes, please contact Daugherty at the 
Bookstore.
The Computation Center is offering the 
following free seminars for the spring sem
ester.
All classes will be held between 11:30 
and 12:30 in 5302 Science Hall on the 
scheduled days. If you plan to attend, 
please register with the Computation Cen
ter office, 5216 Science Hall, ext. 2638, or
with the User Consultant, 5212 Science 
jooooooooooooooooooooooooooaoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo*
Hall, ext. 2667. We will prepare copies of 
course notes for those who register. 
Courses for which fewer than five people 
register may be cancelled.
Course Date
FORTRAN DebugJan 30, Feb 1 
ging Techniques 
COBOL Efficiency & Jan 31
Debugging 
TV Editor Feb 6, 8, 13
RSTS Text ProcessMarch 5-9
ing
RSTS and BASIC+ Mar 12-20
360 to 20 ConverApril 3
sion
SIMULA Short Course April 9, 11,13, i6,
18,20
No skinning of animals or hides is 
permitted in the dorms. So says the 
official handbook for the outdoors mind
ed students of the U. of South DakotaSpringfield
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
SKIBO 40ACAMPUS CONVENIENCECALL 578-2921
jbOOOOQOOOOOfWVvvvpffQQQOOQeQOOQQQOQQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOggOOgOOOO

---------------------------------------------------

page 10  TARTAN - January 30, 1979
by Frederic J. Siegel
4NO BZYOND
For a few of us in Pittsburgh last week, 
Super Bowl Sunday wasnt so super. Al
though it may be difficult to imagine, an 
element exists in this city that was not 
rooting for the Steelers in the big game. 
That element with a few exceptions is 
not overly conspicuous but they remain 
loyal Dallas Cowboys fans and they would 
probably present a good argument for 
calling Dallas the best football team in 
the NFL. Although my membership has 
caused me a great deal of trouble through
out my stint in this city, I must admit that 
I am an integral part of this element. 
While I respect the Steelers as an out
standing football team, I have been a loyal 
fan of the Dallas Cowboys for over twelve 
years. Being from New York where I 
should have logically chosen the Jets or
n ssbsss  mmmmmmm  : s. s?
Dallas Fan Succumbs to Reality
Giants as my team, I have no idea why 1 
picked Dallas as the forum for my football 
support. Twelve years ago the cheerleaders 
had not yet surfaced and Dallas hadnt 
even been to a Super Bowl. Maybe it was 
those helmets with the fancy star in the 
middle that attracted me. Whatever the 
reason, while everyone else growing up 
around me wanted to grow up to be Joe 
Namath and lead the Jets, my dream was 
to be Dandy Don Merideth, the starting 
quarterback of the Dallas Cowboys. As 
you might have guessed, I have yet to 
realize this dream. Roger Stauback is get
ting old though, so who knows what will 
happen in a couple of years.
Ive often asked myself why Americans 
get so damned excited about football. 
It is basically a very primitive game. As 
one critic of the game suggests: After
you take away the cheerleaders, the fancy 
uniforms, the television cameras, the fancy 
play books and strategy, what you really 
have is 22 grown-up men knocking each 
others brains out. Our society has gone as 
far as convincing every male in America 
that he is unmasculine if he doesnt sit in 
front of the television set every Sunday, 
drinking beer and watching a good 'old 
fashioned football game. Although the 
previous critic has a point, I must take 
argument with him. While I wont pretend 
to deny that football is somewhat primi
tive, it serves a very definite need for our 
often overly tense society. Football is one 
of the greatest escapes existing in American 
society. Although it has emerged into a 
fantastically successful business, the NFL 
provides good clean relaxation for millions 
of Americans every week. The Super Bowl
If you missed it last week 
You can still buy a
1979 THISTLE
On sale all this week at 
the Sklbo Information 
Desk.
attracted 100 million viewers because in 
this world of uncertainty and instability, 
last week one thing was certain. Every 
American who turned on the Super Bowl 
knew that he would get at the very least a 
good couple of hours of entertainment. We 
could turn on the game and know that no 
one would get killed and that both a win
ner and loser would emerge at the conclu
sion.
As I must term myself an American 
football fanatic, Super Bowl Sunday 
should have been the climax I had waited 
for all season. On the contrary though, 
it a a grave disappointment. I was so 
thoroughly convinced that Dallas would 
defeat the Steelers that I mouthed off the 
week before like the vibrant Thomas 
Henderson himself. Because my heart 
more often than not dictates my mind I 
lost in excess of $40 as a result of the 
Pittsburgh victory. Sitting in a room of 
Iron City beer drinkers (who were deter
mined time and again to show me where 
they live) and devout Steeler fans, I barely 
enjoyed the game. In fact, since the game, 
I wake up every night in a cold sweat 
seeing Jackie Smith drop the ball that 
half of the people in America could have 
caught.
Although it is so difficult to remain a 
fan of the opposing team in this town,
I will continue. I enjoy football and theres 
no team for me other than the Dallas 
Cowboys. You have the right to love the 
Steelers for they are the legitimate World 
Champions of football and you should 
never give up that right. As for me, Ill 
forgive Roger Stauback, Randy White and 
yes, even Jackie Smith for losing Super 
Bowl XIII. Although were not World 
Champions this year, at least we tried 
harder. You cant ask anything more than 
that.
Bicker, Bellyache and Bandy with
BILL DILLON
CMU's Director of Auxiliary Services will be available to discuss Dormitory 
Safety  Parking Enforcement  Quality of Food  Laundry and Food Vending 
Machines  Telephones  The new dormitory  University/Frat. Relations  
CMU's Child Care Center  Post Office  Dormitory Lounge Improvements  
Maintenance Problems  Book Store Prices  Summer Plans  The selection of 
colors in dorm rooms  or anything else you wish to talk about.
; . v
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31st 12 NOON 
WHERRETT ROOM
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

January 30, 1979 - TARTAN - page 11
All American Girl Sought After
by Mory Brenner
For years young women have sat in 
front of their television sets either admiring 
or scoffing at the contestants of the Miss 
America or Miss Universe beauty pagents. 
Some respond with envy for the girls, and a 
wish that they too might someday become 
a beauty queen. For others it is a sexist dis
play of the female anatomy, based solely 
on a womens smile and bustline (not to 
mention how she looks together with all 
her other parts in a bathing suit). This year 
the ABC television network is sponsoring 
a pageant which is attempting to look for 
more in a girl then just her outward ap
pearance.
The All American Girl competition will 
judge its contestants in five categories: Ap
pearance, athletic ability, disco dancing, 
fashion coordination, and personality (in 
alphabetical order). In the first round of
competition, only appearance and athletic 
ability will be taken into consideration. A 
girl may compete in any one of the fol
lowing nine sports: Baton-twirling, diving, 
figure ice skating, figure roller-skating, 
gymnastics, skate boarding, sychronized 
swimming, tennis or water-skiing. The win
ners in the preliminary Pittsburgh judging 
will go on to compete against the winners 
from the other 23 cities participating in the 
ABC contest.
This summer the national finals will 
take place in California. Each girl will be 
flown out, all expenses paid, so that she 
may take part in the last segment of the 
evaluation. At that time the All American 
Girl will be selected, awarded $25,000 and 
a guest appearance on an ABC prime tim 
television show. The last of these competi
tions will be filmed and made into a special
IF WE HAD
A FEW MORE
TO WORK WITH
THISONE
WOULDN T BE
L VSO DAMNED
IMPORTANT
You are invited to talk with our 
Recruitment staff during our City 
campaign February 12th - 15th, from 
9:00 AM till 8:00 PM daily. We will 
be at the YWCA, 4th & Woods Street, 
downtown Pittsburgh. Feel free to 
call us there at 391-5100 or call us 
Toll Free 800-462-1589. Hope to see 
you then.
Peace Corps
%/|OTA VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE 
 lv I M TO AMERICA
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITY
HHHH ^82-144?
5*1 (. **'r?toscc^?fx
10C each  s sub|ec W. offer S 6 H Green
_ SDeCnc Stamp certifica on 147/1notice r rent* I in aH 0 U.S. tote, j.'- J
today
National Car Rental
which will air next fall.
To become a contestant all one must do 
is be a female between 18 and 23 years old 
and pay a $20 application fee. At first 
glance this practice may seem a bit hokey, but one must realize that the cost of 
entering the Miss Pennsylvania pageant is 
$500. Applications will be available up
stairs in Skibo today and tomorrow be
tween 12:00 - 4:00 PM. Good Luck Girls.
(Tfead
We would like to invite you to explore meaningful career opportunities 
with a leading diversified natural resource company.
POSITIONS AVAILABL:
Openings in Research, Design, Production, and Sales
DEGREE-REQUIREMENTS (Bachelor)
E.E., M.E. and Economics
MEAD REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS:
2/7 - 2/8/79 - William Coulter
If unable to schedule an interview, send resume to David H. Germann, 
Mead World Headquarters, Courthouse Plaza, N.E., Dayyton, Ohio 45463.
*An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Materials about the program at CMU wil 
available at the meeting.
be
For additional information about the Forum call Don 
Balenovich, Actuarial Science coordinator at 578-2151.
Refreshments will be served.
ENGINEERING/ARCHITECTURAL AIDE - Positions available in the Physical Plant 
Department for C-MU Architecture/Engineering students. These positions involve 
assisting consulting architects and staff professionals. Duties will include making 
surveys, calculations, drafting, checking plans and specifications, and other draf
ting room assignments. Flexible hours. Salary Range - $3.00 to $3.50/hr., depen
ding upon qualifications. Excellent professsonal experience. Interested in
dividuals my contact J. McNally, ext. 2914 for more information.
CLERICAL ASSISTANTS - Positions available for C-MU students capable of 
typing, filing and other general office duties. Must be available for 12 to 15 hours 
per week (flexible). Salary $3.00/hr. Interested individuals may contact D. Elrick, 
ext. 2914 for more information.
ACTUARIAL 
SCIENCE FORUM
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1979
7:00 P.M. 
BREED HALL  MARGARET MORRISON
Learn about the Actuarial Science program at Carnegie-Mellon University and your career opportunities 
as an actuary. Three Fellows of the Society of Actuaries 
will speak about their profession and will answer your 
questions concerning an actuarial career.

---------------------------------------------------

McDonnell Douglas Corporation is one of the Nations 
leading engineering firms. Our goal is to continue to 
excell by developing state-of-the-art methods and 
equipment.
Together with other engineers, you can contribute to 
the development of Advanced Electronic Systems and 
Mechanical Systems by using the most advanced 
techniques.
You have spent several years to attain your 
degreespend 30 minutes with a McDonnell Douglas 
representative and let us show you how to turn that 
degree into a career.
The McDonnell Douglas Representative will be at 
your campus on:
Make an appointment through your Placement Office 
to talk to us about your future.
Friday 
February 2, 1979
/IfCOO/V/VELL DOUGi
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship RequiredCOf7#OfMT#OJV

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 14 - TARTAN - January 30, 1979
by Phil Okenuwick
Did you ever hear the one about Frank Buck?
Frank Buck was the greatest animal trapper 
that ever lived. He trapped animals for zoos, for 
circuses, for sideshows, for almost anything. Dur
ing his long career he made quite a name for him
self as the greatest animal trapper that ever lived.
One day, like many men, Frank Buck reached 
the age of sixty-five and decided to retire. So, out 
hero bought himself a little farm in Louisville, 
Kentucky and settled down to live out his remain
ing years in the peaceful surroundings of rural 
Louisville.
Not quite. He had just settled down and was 
sitting out on his back porch when the phone 
rang. It was the San Diego Zoo. The zookeepers 
said to Frank Buck, "Mr. Buck? This is the San
TARTAN FOLIO
JANUARY 30, 1979A/OLUME lll/ISSUE 17: 
FREE-FOR-ALL
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS:
NEIL BLOOMBERG 
VIVEK BAMMI 
DIRK DODD 
ANDY EPSTEIN 
CARLA JACKSON 
BOB KILEY 
DANIEL KLEIN 
PHIL OKUNEWICK 
ANNE PATTERSON 
JIM WALDFOGLE 
ROBERT ZIMMERMANN
COVER DESIGN: ROSE DUBIN
Diego Zoo. We realize you've led a long and busy 
life, and you deserve a peaceful retirement as 
much as any man on earth, but there's this one 
unusual animal we need, and you're the only man 
we know that can get it for us. It's a hornless rhi
nocerous."
Well, Frank Buck (being in retirement and all 
that) naturally argued a little, but finally consent
ed to get this hornless rhinocerous for the San Di
ego Zoo. So, the next day he went down to his 
boat on the shore (this was before the days of air
planes), sailed across choppy seas, and landed in 
Africa, where he went a'hackin' and a'choppin', 
and a'choppin' and a'hackin' through the jungles 
of Africa till he met Tarzan.
Now Tarzan was painting stripes. However, you 
couldn't tell if they were white stripes on a black 
zebra, black stripes on a white zebra, or black and 
white stripes on a clear zebra. So Frank Buck 
went up to Tarzan and said, 'Tarzan, I hate to 
bother you while you're so busy, but there's this 
one unusual animal I need. Would you happen to 
know the whereabouts of a hornless rhinocer
ous?"
Now Tarzan, being so busy and all that, natur
ally was a little upset. But he put down his brush, 
pointed to a bush, and said, "UGH!" And lo and 
behold, out walked this hornless rhinocerous!
So, Frank Buck captured the hornless rhino
cerous, thanked Tarzan (who had, by this time, 
gone back to painting the zebra), and went 
a'hackin' and a'choppin' and a'choppin' and 
a'hackin' back through the jungles of Africa, back 
down to his boat on the shore (this was before 
the days of airplanes), sailed back across choppy 
seas, and landed in America. The next day, he de
livered the hornless rhinocerous to the San Diego 
Zoo, and went back into retirement on his little 
farm in Louisville, Kentucky.
Well, three days later Frank Buck was sitting 
out on his back porch when the phone rang. This 
time it was the Chicago Zoo. The zookeepers at 
the Chicago Zoo said, "Mr. Buck? This is the Chi
cago Zoo. We hate to bother you, seeing as you're 
in retirement and all that, but there's this one un
usual animal we need and only you can get it for 
us. It's a short-necked giraffe."
Weil, Frank Buck (being in retirement and all 
that) naturally argued a little, but finally consent
ed to get this short-necked giraffe for the Chicago 
Zoo. So the next day, he went down to his boat 
on the shore (this was before the days of air
planes), sailed across choppy seas, and landed in 
Africa, where he went a'hackin' and a'choppin' 
and a'choppin' and a'hackin' through the jungles 
of Africa till he met Tarzan.
Now, Tarzan was painting stripes. However, 
you couldn't tell whether they were black stripes 
on a white zebra, white stripes on a black zebra, 
or black and white stripes on a clear zebra. So, 
Frank Buck went up to Tarzan and said, 'Tarzan, 
I hate to bother you while you're so busy,but 
there's this one unusual animal I need. Would you 
happen to know the whereabouts of a short-neck
ed giraffe?"
Now Tarzan (being so busy and all that) natur
ally was a bit peeved, but he put down his brush, 
pointed to a bush, and said, "UGH!" And lo and 
behold, out walked this short necked giraffe.
So Frank Buck captured the short-necked gir
affe, thanked Tarzan (who had, by this time, gone 
back to painting stripes), and went a'hackin' and 
a'choppin', and a'choppin' and a'hackin' back 
through the jungles of Africa, down to his boat on 
the shore (this was before the days of airplanes), 
sailed across choppy seas, and landed in America. 
The next day, he delivered the short-necked gir
affe to the Chicago Zoo and went back to retire
ment on his little farm in Louisville, Kentucky.
Well, three days later, he was sitting out on the 
back porch when the phone rang. This time it was 
the Smithsonian Zoo. The zookeepers said, "Mr. 
Buck, we realize you're in retirement and all that, 
but there's this one unusual animal we need, and 
only you can get it for us. It's a trunkless ele
phant"
Well, Frank Buck (being in retirement and all 
that) naturally argued a little, but finally con
sented to get this trunkless elephant for the 
Smithsonian Zoo. So the next day, he went down 
to his boat on the shore (This was before the days 
of airplanes), sailed across choppy seas, and went 
a'hackin' and a'choppin', and a'choppin' and 
a'hackin' through the jungles of Africa till he met 
Tarzan.
Now Tarzan was painting stripes. However, you 
couldn't tell if they were black stripes on a white 
zebra, or white stripes on a black zebra, or black 
and white stripes on a clear zebra. So Frank Buck 
went up to Tarzan and said, 'Tarzan, I hate to 
bother you while you're so busy, but there's this 
one unusual animal I need. Would you happen to 
know the whereabouts of a trunkless elephant?"
Now Tarzan, totally peeved, broke his brush 
over his knee, threw the brush into the bushes, 
pointed to a bush and hollered, "UGH!" And, lo 
and behold, out walked this trunkless elephant.
So Frank Buck captured the trunkless ele
phant, thanked Tarzan (who had by this time 
picked up a chipmunk and was painting with its 
tail), went a'hackin' and a'choppin', and a'chopin' and a'hackin' back through the jungles of Af
rica down to his boat on the shore (this was be
fore the days of airplanes), sailed across choppy 
seas, and landed in America. The next day, he de
livered the trunkless elephant to the Smithsonian 
Zoo, and went back into retirement on his little 
farm in Louisville, Kentucky.
Three days later, he was sitting on his back 
porch when the phone rang. However, this time it 
was a wrong, number. So the next day, Frank 
Buck has his phone disconnected and lived hap
pily ever after.
MORAL: TARZAN STRIPES FOREVER

How do I love thee? Let me count the ways, as 
soon as I recharge the batteries in my TI-57. 
FOLIO'S next theme is Valentine's Daythe per
fect occasion to tell that special someone just 
what you feel for them in a few lines of verse or 
prose, or in an illustration. Just drop off your 
typed copy or your artwork at the TARTAN of
fice by February 6. If you're feeling even more 
ambitious, we've got a few more regular issues 
coming up. And for the really stout-hearted, 8-10 # 
typed pages of copy or suitable artwork can be
come a special FOLIO! RememberFOLIO 
staffers make better lovers!
February 13: Valentine's Day (deadline: Feb. 6) 
February 27: The. . .Cookbook (deadline: Feb20) 
March 13: Sci Fi Ish (deadline: March 6)
March 20: Masterpiece Parodies (deadline Mar* 13)

---------------------------------------------------

January 30, 1979  TARTAN  page 15
Editor _________________
by Jim Waldfogle
'Tim who?"
Banks. He's the guy over by the bar talking to
Al."
"The one who looks like a stork?"
"Yeah, that's him."
"Freshman?"
"Very. But he's pretty cool, I guess. I've parti
ed with him before."
"With him? He looks like a refugee from a 
Perry Como concert. I haven't seen pants that 
short since..."
"Hey, give him a break; he's new here. He's try
ing to change, but it might take a little while. He 
had a strict childhood. Overbearing mother, I 
think."
"Oh, yeah. The old 'castrating bitch' syn
drome."
"I didn't know you were a psych major, Dale."
"I'm not I just made that up. Say, what's your 
interest in this guy?"
"I don't know. I guess I feel sorry for him. I 
was like that myself once, you know."
"You're kidding!"
"Sad, isn't it? Do you realize how many people 
in this world have never gotten stoned?"
"It's frightening. You know, Nick, I think de
cent, pot-smoking citizens like ourselves should 
do somehing about the situation."
"Definitely. Hey, Tim," he called.
Tim luuked up "Yeah?"
"C'mere. I got someone I want you to meet 
Tim, this is Dale Tevelt, the world jack-off cham
pion."
"Ah, fuck you," said Dale.
"You'd never go back to women," replied 
Nick.
Tim laughed. This is it, he thought Meet peo
ple, make a few connections.
"Nice to meet you/' he said.
"Yeah, same here," said Dale. "Nick's been 
telling me a lot about you."
"Okay," said Nick, "so much for polite conver
sation. Let's go get stoned."
Tim's eyes grew wide behind his coke-bottle 
lenses.
"How about you, Tim?" asked Dale. "You feel 
like getting a little fucked up?"
"Sure." His grin was beginning to cover the 
lower half of his face.
"Well, finish your beer and get another one," 
said Dale, "then we'll go."
Although he had hardly touched his beer, Tim 
gamely gulped down the rest of it. His throat 
started to tingle and his eyes watered, but he kept 
up a good front. "Let's go," he said.
The September air felt invigorating after the 
cramped mustiness of the fraternity basement. As 
the sweat on his forehead began to cool, Tim felt 
better than he had at any time within memory. 
Nothing in the past even seemed real anymore. He 
thought of the people he had known back home. 
He hadn't really known anyone, had he? He start
ed to hum a few bars of "If They Could See Me 
Now," and broke up laughing.
"Hey, what's so funny, men?" asked Dale.
"What isn't?" laughed Tim.
"That's the spirit!" cried Nick.
"Are you sure you're not stoned already?" 
Dale asked.
Tim smiled broadly. "Not yet."
Dale had to laugh in spite of himself. Naive as
hell, he thought, but he's got potential. God 
knows, this college could use some fresh blood.
"Hey, Dale," Nick said, "you got your key?"
"Man, where the hell would you be without 
me, Royce?" said Dale. "I'll tell you where. Up 
shit creek, that's where." He flung open the door 
with a dramatic flair. "Home at last!" he cried, 
flinging himself on the bed. "Hey Nick, roll a 
joint"
"Why don't you?"
"Because you're closer. Hey, Tim, take a seat"
'Thanks." Tim plopped into a beanbag chair 
and waited anticipatorily.
"I always have to roll," said Nick. "Why don't 
you ever roll?"
"Don't get bitchy. You want to roll it, Tim?"
"I'm not . . . very good at it," Tim admitted.
"No sweat," said Dale. "Nick will show you."
Nick threw a pillow at Dale that he managed to 
duck.
"Come on, Tim," he said. "You'll learn some
thing."
Tim watched with open-faced attentiveness as 
Nick brought out the pot, papers, and rolling 
machine.
"Now this little device here," he said, indicat
ing the machine, "makes things a lot easier. Not 
only that, it comes in six decorator colors. I'll bet 
you never saw anything like this back home."
"You can say that again," Tim replied. He 
couldn't think of anything better to say, but 
hoped that that was good enough. He had never 
seen anything like the machine before, and he 
marveled at its ingenious simplicity.
"With one of these," Nick was saying, "any
body can become an expert roller in no time at 
all. Maybe it's not art, but you can't have every
thing."
He rolled as he spoke. "Some people prefer 
smoking pipes or bongs. Not me. A joint's a lot 
more efficient. There's no waste. It's also easier to 
pass around. You don't have to worry about spil
ling pot or bong water on the floor. And it's also 
easier to hide, just... in . .. case."
He grinned knowingly and produced the finish
ed joint
"Ta-da! /srt'fthat amazing?"
"Fascinating," said Dale. "Fire it up."
"Would you like to do the honors, Tim?" ask
ed Nick.
"Sure," Tim replied. He had been mentally tak
ing notes through out the entire process. He did 
not want to forget anything.
The match lit on the first strike.
Good, he thought, Now take a good hit, but 
don't cough this time. If these guys start thinking 
you're a 'pussy,' you're through.
A sweet stinging filled his throat and began to
filter down to his lungs. He felt an almost over
whelming desire to cough.
Don't let go, he thought, whatever you do, 
don't let go. Remember what Nick taught you.
With an effort he didn't know he had in him, 
Tim suppressed his cough and held it all in his 
lungs. He blew out an admirable cloud of smoke.
You did it, he said to himself. A hit to be 
proud of. Just like you've been smoking for years.
The rest of the night became one long, confus
ed party. More people began to drift in, following 
the aroma with uncanny accuracy. Introductions 
were made, but Tim didn't remember any of the 
names for more than a few minutes. All names 
and faces seemed to merge into one.
He had been determined to have a good time, 
and he was pleased to see his wishes come true for 
once. He had no idea how much he had smoked
when he leaned back and said:
"I think I'm stoned."
"So who isn't?" came a voice from the haze.
"Well, I've smoked before," he replied, "but 
I've never reallygotten high. I don't know what 
I'm supposed to feel like."
"What do you feel like?" asked Nick. *
Tim replied slowly and deliberately, as though 
making an effort.
"I'm very aware of my tongue," he said, "but I 
couldn't tell you where my feet are. The room 
seems to be a lot longer. I can't remember my 
Social Security Number. But I don't care. I feel 
like going back to high school and lighting up a 
joint in the middle of class. A joint rolled in a 
page from my Physics II textbook."
"I'd say he's stoned," said another voice.
"That's a distinct possibility," said a third.
"One way to check for sure," said a voice that 
Tim was fairly sure belonged to Dale. "Do you 
have any profound revelations?"
"Any what?"
"Profound revelations," said Nick. "You know, 
something with deep meaning that you couldn't 
possibly think of if you were straight."
Tim thought for a second. "What this country 
needs," he said, "is a good fifteen-dollar ounce."
The room exploded in gales of stoned laugh
ter. As talk circulated about running Tim for pres
ident on the platform of a good fifteen-dollar 
ounce, he leaned back and closed his eyes.
Not bad, he thought. You've finally got 'peer 
approval.' Isn't this how you'd like to spend the 
rest of your life?
Someone far in the distance was warning him 
that this was exactly what he should be trying to 
avoid, but without any support or encourage
ment, the voice slowly became enveloped in the 
haze.
Someone passed him a joint.

---------------------------------------------------

page Hr TARTAN January 30, 1979
Jsud
Courte*-
I saw a baby on the bus 
The mother clutching it in 
its soft pink. Its eyes closed 
and fists clenched as if 
against the world.
Me, a college student, at 
this point in life, seemed strangely 
a joke.
The Snow falls again, 
restoring innocense, 
giving me new hope 
of the Worm's 
metamorphosis
Kruger was sitting on top of the 
garage with a machete 
eyeing shoppers on the street 
bags full of health food 
I should have said 
"come down" but yelled 
"enjoy the view!"
BsioTHa!
(apologies to George Harrison)
Bro-mo  you've given me some Bromo 
and I'm feeling so blue; and all the treats 
that we used to eat  Bromo! Bromo!
You don't see me crying 
You don't hear me dying 
Bro-mo!  now I sure need some Bromo 
And I know how sweet life can go.
Never eat at Skibo  oh, Bromo!
Bromo Bromo!!
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN  197
For the real beer lover.

---------------------------------------------------

January 30, 1979  TARTAN  page 17
Csofast 'Jbrmetr ____
by K. A. Yaksich
He came upon the cobblestones, so slow 
He almost paused in mid-step, letting me 
Trace the lines of the face I now know 
As well as my own. Faintly I could see 
The way his gaze was held in ecstasy 
By something keeping just beyond his sight 
Fading music on a pine-scented breeze, 
Mirrored in eyes duskily fringed in night 
These were the things that created the pride 
That kept him always moving on, alone,
His outline merging in the waning light 
With the form of the broken cobblestones.
I much prefer memory's haze; I hear 
The edges of reality too clear.
by Vivek Bam mi
Your image whirls in my withered mind. 
The scraping of bamboo brush 
Raking interminable the eternal procession of 
foliage,
Keeping my grounds antiseptically spotless.
Hands, inky extensions of broom.
Dark sleek skin, mistaken proof of 
Large-hearted beneficence.
Tresses that shamed branches 
That mercilessly shed leaves.
And the excruciatingly ephemeral grin,
Muffled on arising within folds of transparent 
sari.
Momentary coquettishness
Amidst a history of submission, hidden emotion,
Reproduced exploitation.
You expired yesterday, Savitri,
At childbirth. Relinquished life,
Had not food enough to nurture 
Another creature, sacrificed both.
Why was there no scream of 
Need, want in my ears?
Scraps off my plate would've diverted 
From canine, feline amusement.
Kept you standing atop rich earth 
And your own,
New generation of subservience 
To white invaders and brown mimics.
Savitri, how could we communicate,
Was there ever chasm profound 
As two shrivelled souls?
The legacy of hunger,
And the arrogance of birth.
USA AMOMTZ
1 see the vAsruess of it now. 
D/SriNCT D/FFERENCES.
ALL NEATLY STACKED
/V tdsstn e:Lna
wikh TARNBkl DB Bwil Lime
ATTITUDES. 
NO. A LI you ,iAwA ,ikwc 
you hiA fw uwLDwxw
.II. WAS ALL -MY-FA.L/LL__________
dB lhw BifwLwcc xyDA
1 5TRU6LE,
HI SVlRlT
tdSsnv pmv gpen.nv 
gdsM tben ,y PyT 
Hjs ptab; TR/E /A/ riYSELF.
IT HYAS NOT WHAT YOU 
WANTED.
ANY OF yoU.
M SZtj(n 
sb )bFJ.bFdan 
sb bj.1 AwfiBAc 
a)p.nv bj 
ptt pgp '
Wise mnae 
GOOb FOR YOU 
AIM---------------------------------------------------

page 18  TARTAN  January 30, 1979
_________________________
bv Daniel Klein
'Cause I see you now in a different light,
Your eyes don't sparkle, and your smile ain't 
bright
And your silk smooth touch is like a sow's ear 
now,
And the honey of your lips has gone stale.
The day, finally, it has come 
When you no longer are the sun 
That shines both night and day.
Your frail facade, your carapace
Is shattered now, like so much glass 
Revealing thus for me to see 
That which you ne'er seemed to be.
'Cause after the wine and the roses and the tears, 
And after all I've said and done and tried for you, 
I fear
Is faded, to a whisper, though still it is near.
I cannot, as you did, feel hate, or feel spite 
But I do see you now, in a different light.
That the wine is now envinagered,
And the roses are but thorns,
And your sweet salt tears are but bitter brine 
I will no longer mourn!
The flame has died, the embers out,
The memories all grown wan.
And all the love that I once held dear
THINK ABOUT 
TOMORROW 
ON FEB. 1
Thats when our General Dynamics 
team will be on campus to talk to you 
about your future. Were probably best 
known as a leading American defense 
contractor. But we also have wide-ranging 
programs in many other high technology 
fields as well. We offer qualified graduates 
broad corporate career paths in many 
diverse areas: Aerospace. Data Systems. 
Marine. Building Products and Resources. 
Telecommunications and Electronics.
There are truly outstanding opportunities 
in nearly every engineering and scientific 
discipline with particular emphasis on the 
computer sciences.
Disciplines: 
Aeronautical, Chemical, Civil, 
Computer Science, Electrical, 
Electronic, Industrial, Mathematics, 
Materials, Manufacturing, 
Metallurgical, Mining, Marine, 
Mechanical, Nuclear, Optics, Physics, 
Reliability, Welding.
Be sure to inquire about Co-op and 
Summer Intern programs with General 
Dynamics.
There will be an orientation meeting 
held the evening before our visit. Be sure 
to check the Placement Office for details.
&C
GENERAL DYNAMICS
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

ALPHA PHI OMEGA STUDMT - COURSE EVALUATION AN5WER FORMJanuary 30,1979  TARTAN  page 19
I* THE ASVfZSCCTrCf.*SS*KS. K.iA
f.Tim es Tn rr -t s-: > ** -ar ,: POI H ITEMS etcC 4
H|_L IN ^E NUtfPER ***T v.?UR RF.SPONS 
?!0E ** CORRESPONDING Li.  *E*-
cocus: UtfBE AMO SCCnOfc
abcdef9hiCI1mn0p9
USTRCTO
UFT code:________
by Robert Zimmermann
sjmcstics r --ft 2CTTC i. tVZl. PkLASt S5\.- .-He <
WWaTTrWV!V::***? u jA.'~sT3
United Federation of TeachersStudent-Course Evaluation Form 
Instructions to the instructor: The Union representative should give you a UFT code 
for this course. Write the code as indicated on the top of this page. For the first three 
parts, write your answer on a separate sheet of paper. Do not use pages tom from spiral 
notebooks or students* termpapers for scratchwork.
PART I Evaluation of the course:
a) Are you required to teach this course?
REQUIRED=1 5=NOT REQUIRED
b) Will you lose all hope of tenure if you dont teach it?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO
c) Did you describe the course reasonably accurately?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO
d) How many students would you have lost if you had described it accurate
ly? FEW 1 2 3 4 5 MANY
e) How well do the tests (or whatever determines your grading) reflect the material
taught? VERY 1 2 3 4 5 NOT AT ALL
0 How much did personal judgment affect the grade?
LOTS 12 3 4 5 ENOUGH
How much did the following contribute to your students learning of the course 
material?
g) LecturesMUCH 1 2 3 4 5 NOT IN THE SLIGHTEST
h) Recitations
i) Assignments 
j) Labs
k) Exams (cramming) 
1) Cheating 
m) The T.A.
LITTLE
I NEVER LOOKED AT THEM 
LITTLE (N/A)
A LARGE AMOUNT 
I CAUGHT NONE 
MOST
MUCH 1 2 3 4 5 
MUCH 1 2 3 4 5 
MUCH 1 2 3 4 5 
ALL 1 2 3 4 5 
MUCH 1 2 3 4 5 
ALL 1 2 3 4 5 
n) Is the amount of work required appropriate for the pay given?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO 
o) Did the T.A.(s) do most of it?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO 
p) In general, how would you rate this course?
DEADEND 1 2 3 4 5 POSSIBILITIES OF A BOOK
PART II Evaluation of the students:
q) Identify difficult aspects of your delivery swiftly?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO 
r) Make maximum use of whatever examples you deign to give them?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO (6=NONE) 
s) Convey their knowledge of the subject to you?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO 
t) Point out errors in your lecture?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NEVER CAUGHT 
u) Present Homework neatly and in an organized manner?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 ASK THE T.A.S 
v) Have affected your interest in the subject?
IMPOSSIBLE 1 2 3 4 5 MAYBE 
w) Present enriching material in class?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO
x) Answer questions well?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO 
y) Take genuine interest in the material? Are sincerely motivated to learn?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO 
z) In general, how would you rate these students?
MOB 1 2 3 4 5 Glassy-eyed Dolts
alpha) How many days were wasted for introductory lectures? Test? Reviewing 
test? Reviews for final? Final?
beta) How many minutes/classes were wasted looking for chalk? looking for eras
ers? waiting for orders? because you were late?
gamma) How long did the students wait before giving up all hope of your showing 
up? your becoming sane?
PART III Questionnaire Evaluation
delta) To what extent does this questionnaire effectively convey your overall evalu
ation of the students and the course?
POORLY 1 2 3 4 5 WELL
epsilon) To what extent did the student questionnaire evaluate you?
POORLY 1 2 3 4 5 WELL
zeta) Do you care (remember: the faculty does not even read the FCE)?
YES 1 2 3 4 5 NO
Black Awareness Week '79 says:
itCELEBRATE
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
(February 11-18)
n
FUNDED BY STUDENT SENATE

---------------------------------------------------

page 20 TARTAN  January 30, 1979
How would you like to write fora publication 
with real impact? Although we certainly encour
age everyone to continue submitting to FOLIO, 
the Admissions Office is interested in getting stu
dent input for their booklet, Reflections. Reflec
tions is mailed out to students who have been ad
mitted to CMU but who have not decided wheth
er or not to enroll.
Debbie Mall, Assistant Director of Admissions, 
wants to know some of the thoughts you have as 
you reflect on your education and experiences at 
Carnegie-Mellon. Although humor is appreciated 
if it is sincere, the Admissions Office would like 
to know how you seriously feel about what
you've gone through or will go through here. 
They're interested in the bad and the good, the 
academic and the social aspects, the benefits and 
the disadvantages, the joys and disappointments... 
Any way you wish to express it, Reflections 
would like to know what CMU is to you.
Here are some samples from last year's edition.
"I think the university is here to serve the stu
dents. I think it is here to provide an institute of 
higher education where we can feel that we are 
getting an education that we can put to good use 
after we get out. I think it is about learning to 
cope with life. I figure that if you can cope with 
some of the pressures...some of the problems... 
some of the things at CMU... you won't have too 
many problems once you graduate/'D.D.
Because of academic pressures here I think it 
is necessary for you to find yourself...be comfort
able with yourself...develop your interests. Here, 
there is no norm, no stereotype, so you don't 
have to conform."N.F.
"I have never been in a class where people have 
said, 'No, I can't help you because it will hurt the 
average.' It is always, 'We really want to see one 
another get along well and get our grades up.' 
There is no cutthroat attitude. It's always that 
your friends are there and they are your friends 
and they want to see you stay and you want to 
see them stay/'B.C.
Got the idea? Why not submit you reflections 
to FOLIO and we'll try to print some ot them. 
And all of them will go to the Admissions Office 
for possible publication. This is your chance to 
share your experience with prospective Techies. 
Give it a try.
by Carla Jackson
An Important Announcement Aimed At All 
Extroverts
Concerning introverts (with reservations):
We aren't all bad, you know.
We don't discover continents, but 
we do quieter things, less ostentatious claims to 
fame
like inventing pizza and electric knives 
and even running the New York Met 
(opera, not baseball), 
leaving You People to toss piecrusts, and 
carve potroasts (en daube, bien sur), and 
shriek arias.
Loud and bawdy is not for us;
we direct the spotlight from the wings, without
ever (desiring a chance at) stepping
into its wavering bounds.
.miDISCO DANCING 
CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION
ART APPRECIATION 
SELF DEFENSE * *
FOR BEGINNERS
-s' /
* Y fife l *
Wmmm
 .. *  
hiSHAPE UP FOR SPRING - EXERCISE 
YOGA FOR ENJOYMENT
v. * -
% - - 'THE JOYS OF FREE TIME
Learn something new, ust for fun. Campus Program Planning 
is offering the campus community a series of mini-courses, 
beginning the week of February 19. 
These courses, reated specifically for your enjoyment, are all 
non-credit, with no pre-requisites. 
Classes will meet 1 hr. a week, for 5 weeks.* Registration 
begins Feb. 7 at Skibo Info Desk at a cost of only $1.00 per
course. Watch for more details. * CPR only will run March 12-16, 12-f 00 -1:30. 
* * Special fee is $5.00 for students, $10,000 for all others.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Playwrights Series uses rock 'n' roll as thematic basis for plays
by Karen Locitzer
Recently, rocknrolls been a concert of 
theatrics as well as music. Wild makeup 
glitter clothes and violence on stage suc
cessfully express the vitality of the music 
to the audience who often responds with 
dancing and cheering. Hugh Esten and 
Robert McGrath feel that theatre lacks this 
communication of energy and the two 
plays they present, opening tonight in the 
second production of the Playwrights Se
ries, pour rocknroll into the audience to 
fill them with the life of the music.
This kind of theatre shouldnt be look
ed at the same way as a Tennesee Williams 
play. Theres no tension, or development 
of character. . . Cowboy Mouth is a classic 
in a theatre movement that is fighting against making theatre a series of outlines, 
McGrath informs me. He is humorously im
patient with outlining this philosophy. He 
looks at Cowboy Mouth, a rocknroll dra
ma written by Sam Shepard and Patti 
Smith as a . . kind of conjuring ses
sion. . evoking the fantasies and reali
ties of a relationship in the rocknroll 
culture.
Hugh Esten, writer and director of 
Bobby Angel (actually written backwards) 
says that while the audience can and 
should deal with his play intellectually, he 
wants it first to hit them physically and 
emotionally. Exploring the life and eventu
al breakdown of someone from his home
town now in jail, Esten feels that rock n 
roll expresses the violence his character 
feels toward a world which is backwards 
and incomprehensible. Its Bobby Angel 
and rocknroll against the alphabet and 
western society. He continues, If I 
could have gunfights and car chases on this 
stage, the music wouldnt be necessary.
Producer John Wells chose these two 
plays because Esten and McGrath are ar
tists whos work he respects and whom he 
personally trusts. The purpose of the 
Young Playwrights Series is to give student 
playwrights and directors the badly needed 
chance to see their works performed. Be
lieving that these student professionals 
need the kind of feedback only full scale 
productions can provide, he set out last fall 
to convince the drama department of this. 
Walter Eysselinck, head of drama, was re
ceptive because he was aware that the play
wrights in CMUs program werent seen 
enough and that there wasnt enough
theatre space on campus. Hes given the 
Series free run on CMU costumes and 
props. Theyve always been more than 
helpful says Wells.
But it is Wells, writing requests and 
checks for copyrights on plays, reading and 
selecting scripts, finangling for theatre 
space and paying the operating costs, who 
has sole responsibility for the Young Play
wrights Series. He fronts the money for the 
productions and asks a dollar donation at 
the door. At the premier production of the 
Series last December, audience turnout 
reached 400, and he just about broke even.
Its not something Im doing to put on 
a resume,  he says, and I wouldnt have a 
longer run because the performers (stu
dents at CMU, alumni and faculty) are 
overworked as it is. He has an impressive 
enough list of credentials anyway, working 
at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival and LaMamas E.T.C. before coming to CamegieMellon to take a graduate degree in pro
duction and directing.
While he realises that the Series needs an 
audience  if not for the money, at least 
for morale - he isnt willing to sacrifice his 
unique productions for an audience dedi
cated to a particular kind of theatre. His
ideals demand that he offers plays that are 
completely different, as diverse and indi
vidual as the directors and playwrights 
themselves. His only guideline is that each 
production feature a new play written by 
a CMU student and an established play 
interpreted in a new way by a student 
director.
The worst thing that could happen is 
that no one comes. After all the hard work 
everyone does, thats terrible, he worries, 
hoping that his audience will grow through 
word of mouth. The Young Playwrights 
Series will have to build its reputation 
only on the promise of new and exciting 
theatre. In a Series as varied as this one will 
be, theres bound to be something for 
everyone sooner or later.
Bobby Angel and Cowboy Mouth are 
showing tonight and tomorrow night at 
the Theatre Express Building, 4615 Baum 
Blvd. There is a special performance of the 
two plays scheduled for 11:30 PM Wednes
day night. The third and fourth produc
tions of the Series will be in mid-March and 
late April For more information, call578- 
2407.
'Assassins' utilizes craft of CMU alumni
by Dan Livak
Assassination is a topic which has arous
ed the American publics interest for a 
number of years. Books, plays and movies 
written about the assassination of Ameri
can presidents have profited their authors 
especially well in recent times; Mark Lane 
can attest to it. Charles Gilbert, Jr., a CMU 
alumnus, has added a new work to this 
field, Assassins, a musical drama which is 
presently being preformed at Theatre Ex
press. One may wonder if a musical is the 
proper vehicle for a play about assassina
tion  I certainly did  but Gilbert has 
managed to make Assassins work well as a 
musical. The score paces the mood of the 
play perfectly and although in several of 
the numbers the lyrics of the songs are lost 
in the singers mouths, the vocal abilities of 
the company are generally quite good. 
Catherine (Casey) Roberts, currently 
attending CMU, puts forth an especially 
strong performance in her various roles; her 
voice is clear and empathic, her presence 
on stage commands attention.
Gilbert and Roberts are not the only 
Theratre Express personages to have come 
from CMU. William Turner, the director of 
the play, also graduated from CMU, as did 
the Technical Director, Norman Russell, 
and Susan Cash, the companys leading fe
male performer. Cash seems at home on 
stage, and her quasi-comical role is well 
suited for her hyper-expressive face. At one 
point in the play Cash turns to a cardboard 
computer and addresses it as a demi-god; 
it is through Cashs pseudo-scientific 
ter that Gilbert most directly reflects the 
influence that CMU has had upon his writ
ing.
The play centers on the silent Fat Man, 
impeccably played by Frank Serrao. The 
fat Man is a mystical character responsible 
for setting up various Presidential assassins; 
Squeady Fromme, John Wilkes Booth, 
Sirhan Sirhan, Sara Jane Moore and others 
all make their appearances to state their 
cases. Gilbert ingeniously has limited the 
speeches of the historical characters in the 
play to words which they had authored 
themselves.
A collage of bibliographic scenes pre
sents the background of the assassins, 
which helps to establish the plays con
gruency. Time then advances to 1981, and 
the Fat Man is trying to find an assassin 
for a Jimmy Carter look-alike. Meanwhile, 
a government agency, headed by Cash, is 
attempting to determine the next presiden
tial assassin by analyzing the data available 
concerning all previous assassins. Naturally 
both the Fat Man and Cash converge on 
the same man.
Assassins is a strong initial entry in
CMU students selected for
Barry Plumlee, a CMU alumnus, appears in Charles Gilberts' Assassins.
Terri Carothers-clarinet 
David Critser violin 
Leslie Crumpviola 
Paul DeChancie-percussion 
Herbert Diamant bassoon 
Raymond S. Eichenmuller-vw/m 
John Juback clarinet 
List Kozenko-oZ>oe 
Matthew Litterinifrench horn 
Klancy Martin trumpet 
David Picka /io/77 
Denise Plaza-o/we 
Sandra Rasco-french horn 
Natalie Rothermal-flute 
Mary Jane Smith-harp 
Linda Stuckrath violin 
Martin Webster-french horn 
John Parrendoviolin
concert
Theatre Expresss musical season, and I re
commend it to assassination and theatre 
buffs alike. Assassins continues to run until 
February 11, Thursday thru Sunday.
Showtime is at 8:30 PM and tickets for 
students, are $3.00. Call Theatre Express at 
621-5454 for further information or stop 
in at 4615 Baum Blvd.
Twenty CMU students will be perform
ing in the Pittsburgh Youth Symphony Or
chestras silver anniversary benefit concert 
at Heinz Hall, Saturday, February 10, at 8 
PM.
This orchestra is recognized as one of 
the leading youth orchestras in the country 
and has represented the United States in 
music festivals abroad. It is an honor to the 
individuals and the University as well that 
they were chosen to participate in this 
event. The TARTAN would like to ex
tend its congratulations.
Those students performing in the con
cert are:
Christopher Couke rehearses for Theatre Express' 
production of Assassins.
Robert Beatty -percussion 
Ruth Hl inkerviola

---------------------------------------------------

Marley good introduction to music
by Ted Smits
Many musicians have tried to relate 
their music to current social or political 
problems especially during the sixties. 
Many of the rock n roll bands were lead
ers or strong supporters of the protest 
movement. Most of todays popular music 
is not so politically oriented, but there is 
one exception. Bob Marley and the Wailers 
are not only the number one reggae group 
in the world but may also be the most 
powerful political force in Jamaica. Bob 
Marley has just released a live album, 
Babylon by Bus, which should give him 
more exposure to American listeners and 
introduce reggae music to an even greater 
number of people.
Eleven years ago Bob Marley converted 
to Rastafarianism, a Jamaican cult which 
recognizes the late Ethiopian emperor, 
Haile Selassie as the personification of God 
and views smoking ganja (marijuana) as a 
religious experience. The Rastamen are 
wary of capitalism and white men and 
hope that their God will lead them to the 
promised land in Africa, leaving the white 
men in their Babylon. The Rastafarian cult 
is very opposed to the rule of Prime Minis
ter Michael Manley and may soon be re
sponsible for toppling his government. The 
Rastafarians have good reasons to be angry. 
The Prime Minister has taken no steps to 
ease the problems of poverty and racism
that cause the extreme frustration with life 
and politics that is often expressed in Marleys songs. It is this frustration which has 
led most of the Rastamen to escape from 
their problems by smoking ganja and listen
ing to reggae music.
The album is a great piece of work. 
Never before has Marley been able to show 
the emotion and power of the music. The 
opening song, Positive Vibrations, is pre
ceded by a stunning invocation to Haile 
Selassie which ^ demonstrates the way in 
which the reggae music is inseparably join
ed to the Rastafarian cult. The songs are 
very enjoyable to listen to and have a much 
more optimistic feeling then -some of his 
earlier work like Natty Dread. The two 
main topics of Marleys songs are political 
revolt and the joys of smoking ganja.Rebel 
Music, War, and Stir it Up are some of the 
best songs on the album. Lively Up Your
self has an excellent guitar solo that shows 
Marleys musical talents. Concrete Jungle 
may be a big hit in the United States just 
because it has a more rock n roll sound 
than the others. Listening to this album, it 
is hard to feel uninvolved in the political 
turmoil of Jamaica. While his songs no 
longer seem to be based in anger and hat
red, there is no denying the political ideas 
behind the songs.
Marley performs with his regular Wailers 
but has also added a group of three female 
vocalists, one of whom he is married to. If
Steve Forbert is on his way
by Lisa Klepper and Beth Schottenfeld
Im glad to be so young,
Talking with my tongue,
Glad to be so careless in my way.
And play against the odds,
Im glad to be so crazy in my day.
Steve Forbert,GoinDown to Laurel"
Steve Forbert definitely played against 
the odds when he went to New York City 
from Mississippi with his guitar and 
harmonica three years ago. This move has 
certainly payed off for him and for us. His 
first album A live on Arrival is an impressive 
debut. Forbert began by playing anywhere 
he could in New York, which often meant 
the streets and even in Grand Central Stat
ion. Some of these experiences are reflect
ed in his song Grand Central Station, 
March 18,1977.
Forberts style is a mixture of folk, rock 
and blues woven into pleasant tunes with 
penetrating lyrics. But by far the most 
distinctive quality in Steve Forberts 
music is his voice. His husky, raspy, tenor, 
that has often been compared to Rod 
Stewarts, is the key factor that brings
Man is a god clothed in rags, a master of the universe 
going about begging a crust of bread. He is a king 
prostrated before his own servants, a prisoner walled 
by his own ignorance. He could be free . . . He has 
only to walk out of his self-constructed prison, for none 
holds him there but himself 
Paul Twitchell 
The Key to Eckankar
ECKANKAR
The Path of Total Awareness
Introductory talk, color film .. organizational
Meeting 
Monday, Feb. 5 
Sklbo Room 45
8 P.M - Free color film. The People of ECK," followed by on introductory talk and
discussion.
9 P M,- Organizational meeting - for all those interested in starting a monthly or
twice-monthly open discussion group based on 'Eckankar, the Key to Secret 
Worlds.
Bob Marley expresses his political and social convictions in song.
you have never heard reggae music before 
it may be a shock to hear Marleys songs. 
The beats to most of the songs are very sim
ilar and they may be hard to distinguish 
from one another until you are used to 
them. The only real fault of the album is 
that it does get a little monotonous and 
Marleys lyrics cannot often be heard clear
ly. The album is still one of the best releas
ed in 1978 and a good introduction to reg
gae music.
The album was recorded during his Eur
opean tour this past summer. Bob Marley 
has infrequently played in America and has 
played even less in Jamaica. About a year 
ago government soldiers raided Marleys 
house and he received some gunshot 
wounds. Since that time he has not been
living in Jamaica. He did come back once 
to play at a large outdoor concert even 
though there was a threat against his life. It 
is a rare situation in which a musicians life 
may be in danger just because of his politi
cal views, but Marley is not afraid. The lyr
ics to one of his best songs, Rat Race, il
lustrate this fact.
Political violence fill your city,
Dont involve Rasta in your city. 
Rasta dont work for no CIA.
When you think its peace and safe, 
A sudden destruction.
Collective Security, for Surety 
You got the horse race,
You got the dog race,
You got the human race,
But this is the Rat race.
the songs across. He has been called the 
new Dylan because of his folk style 
and frequent use of a harmonica which 
he wears around his neck like Dylan. 
However, Steve Forbert is definitely a 
performer in his own right. This is evident 
whenever you listen to his album or see 
him perform.
Many of the songs on Alive on Arrival 
relate Forberts experiences, and what hes 
learned about life since going to New York. 
In It Isnt Gonna Be That Way Forbert 
sings about learning to change your plans 
when dreams crumble. Steve Fortberts 
Midsummer Nights Toast and Big City 
Cat call to mind vivid images of a strug
gling musician in the big city. And in 
Tonight I Feel So Far Away From Home 
we see that this struggle isnt easy and 
Forbert often missed Mississippi. He has let 
the audience into his life and the songs 
truly have that from the heart feeling.
Forbert is playing at the Decade in 
Oakland tonight. This is a good 
opportunity to see a promising, talented 
performer on his way to the top. After all, 
Springsteen and Dylan started in clubs too.
Out there in the Atlantic Ocean on a sunshine beach 
theres going to be an outbreak of revelry this vacation 
break. And after the sun goes down... well, you know the 
effect that moonlight has on a celebration. We can only 
hope it wont be a full moon.
Because from Jan. 13 through April 21 were opening 
Nassau and Paradise Island to a wave of American col
lege students. We have reason to believe that wave may 
reach tidal proportions. Probably because of the price: 
$269 including air fare and 7 nights hotel.
So there it is, young America. We guarantee you the best 
of dancing on the beach, water sports and a roaring party.
Beyond that, youre invited to improvise. And since your 
talent for good timing is legendary, weve made prepara
tions for you. Were going to be ready.
With open arms.
 1028 Connecticut Avenue
Washington DC. 20036 
r I ll (202)265-9890
I M| toll free (800) 223-0694
INfER^OLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC.
I
$269
? Jan. 13-Jan. 20
? Jan. 20-Jan. 27
? Jan. 27-Feb. 3
? Mar. 3-Mar. 10
? Mar. 10-Mar. 17
$319
? Mar. 17-Mar. 24
? Mar. 24-Mar. 31
? Mar. 31-Apr. 7
? Apr. 7-Apr. 14
? Apr. 14-Apr. 21
? Alright! Sounds good! Ive checked the week I 
want to party and enclosed my $50 deposit.
? Sounds good but Id like to hear more. Send me 
your brochure.
Name___________;____________:_______________
Address____________________________________
City__________________StateZip
TelephoneI
NASSAU & PARADISE ISLAND. BAHAMAS COLLEGE WEEK.

---------------------------------------------------

January 30, 1979 - TARTAN - page 23
CalvinKlein to bring style to Pittsburgh
by Joan Livitski
Artis a word that encompasses a va
riety of terms. Things are artistic, artfully 
done, arty, and works of art. The Womans 
Committee of the Museum of Art at Carne
gie Institute along with the help of Kaufmanns and some very artistic people, 
have planned an artfully done fund-raiser 
thats Pure Posh. No, Im not just trying 
to be arty. The program is called Pure 
Posh which is sure to prove itself a work 
of art.
The extravaganza will consist of a fash
ion show featuring one of the foremost 
designers of our time, Calvin Klein. Follow
ing this peek at the new spring/summer 
line, those in attendance will be served 
wine and cheese. Rounding out the festi
vities will be dancing to the music of 
Peter Duchin and his orchestra.
Pure Posh will be held February 14 at 8 
PM in the Carnegie Music Hall. Its purpose 
is to raise money for purchasing additional 
works of art for the museum.
The Womans Committees goal is to 
promote the arts, education and communi
ty involvement. In their attempts to do this 
they have become instrumental in sponsor
ing the conception of the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival and the development of the Man 
and Ideas lecture series. Other promotional 
and instructive endeavors are their biennial 
antique auction and their slide presentation 
which describes the museum and its collec
tions.
Whatever the event, the Womans Com
mittee always seems to manage to give it an 
aesthetic appeal. Pure Posh looks to be no 
exception to the rule, and part of the 
reason for this is due to the choice of Cal
vin Klein as guest designer.
Calvin Klein is indisputably recognized 
as an artist in his field. Not only is he the 
youngest American designer to have been
elected to the Fashion Hall of Fame, but a 
recent Newsweek cover article credited his 
collection as being instrumental in the 
coming of age of American fashion. In as 
much as he helped the American fashion 
industry grow, Calvin Klein has broadened 
his own career as well. A three time receipient of the coveted Coty Award, Calvin 
Klein attributes his success to his total in
volvement with todays American woman. 
I do what I love to do. I design clothes for 
women with identities. He offers the ba
sics, but leaves enough freedom for the in
dividual to come through.
Calvin Klein, who studied at the Fash
ion Institute of Technology, says of his 
work, I enjoy designing for a woman 
who is a collector. We all have our special 
things. . . I hope that my designs are the 
kind of clothes that a woman wants to 
mix and keep from year to year.
One of the first high fashion designers 
to introduce a full sportswear line, Calvin 
Klein developed his reputation around 
clothes with clean and uncontrived lines. 
He has taken easy, casual sportwear and 
given it soft elegance, impeccable cut, 
luxurious fabric and unique color. He saw 
the need for this type of clothing because 
the American life style had changed. . . . 
Their lives have changed and there is little 
time for wardrobe planning..
The American woman may have little 
time for plans, but Calvin Klein is full of 
them. Along with his already established 
areas of design in mens and womens 
wear, accessories, and linens, he has 
launched his own cosmetic, fragrance and 
skin care firm, Calvin Klein Cosmetics, Inc. 
He soon hopes to extend his design con
cepts even further into a line of home furn
ishings by lending the same taste level evi
dent in his garments to the American 
home.
Pictured are examples of the simple but elegant sportswear fashions that established 
Klein's reputation as a designer.
Calvin
<e>'
& A
o\a & 
* <> 
sr
&
At Great X ..you don't get what you pay for
That's right. You get the haircut. 
But, we keep the hair. Unless, of 
course, you're stuffing pillows in 
your basement as a sideline. In 
which case, we'll put your shear
ings in a plain brown bag for you 
to take home.
Most guys and gals, however, are
mainly interested in the hair we 
leave uncut, because that's what 
says who they are.
At Great Ex we help get your 
head together. . .with your hair. 
No appointments needed either.
Just come in.
expecmionsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
11
.00
Mon.Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
6873500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENT
25
.00
No
Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

Departments merge talents for 'West Side'
A joint production by CMUs Drama and 
Music Departments of West Side Story will 
open at the Kresge Theatre on February 8.
CMUs annual musical will run for a lim
ited engagement of eleven performances 
through February 17. Tickets are $4 and 
$5.50 and are available through the College 
of Fine Arts Box Office, 578-2407.
West Side Story, originally produced on 
Broadway in 1957 and later made into a 
film, is a powerful tale of two hostile teen
age gangs fighting for supremacy amidst 
the tenement houses, corner stores, and 
bridges of the west side of New York. De
liberately given the shape of Romeo and 
Juliet, West Side Story finds bits of beauty 
in a wasteland of discontent, creatively 
capturing the shrill beat of life in the 
streets.
The CMU production will highlight the 
talents of five juniors in leading roles, all 
members of the inaugural class in the uni
versitys musical theatre program. Two of 
the leads, Brent Barrett (Tony) and Carol
Burt (Maria), appeared with Pittsburghs 
Civic Light Opera last summer.
West Side Story director Gregory 
Lehane describes the show as one of the 
most successful efforts to integrate song, 
dance, and book in a musical. Lehane and 
choreographer Myron Howard Nadel are 
working together with the cast to help 
them blend acting, song, and dance into 
seamless characterizations to the 
musicals jazz motif. Robert Page is musical 
director for the show, as he was for the 
previous CMU musical, productions: 
Follies, Kiss Me Kate, and Carousel.
Evening performances of the musical are 
set for February 8-10, and 12-17, at 8:20 
PM. There will also be two Saturday mat
inees, February 10 and 17, at 2 PM. Tic
ket prices are $4 for the matinees and Mon
day through Thursday performances; $5.50 
for Friday and Saturday evenings. Ticket 
information and reservations are available 
at the CMU Box Office (578-2407)
Area artists urged to participate in Arts Festival
The Three Rivers Arts Festival cele
brates its 20th year with a change of dates. 
The Festival will open on June 8, and run 
through June 17,12 noon to 10 PM daily.
Traditionally, this nationally known fes
tival of the arts has opened on Memorial 
Day weekend. This year, 1979, at the re
quest of Pittsburghs Mayor Richard Caliguiri, the dates have been changed to coin
cide with the National Mayors Conference 
being held in Pittsburgh.
The Festivals newly-appointed Execu
tive Director, John Jay, emphasized the im
portance of having area artists participate 
in this 20th annual event.
We urge all artists 18 years and over fr
om Western Pennsylvania and surrounding
areas to enter the Festival this year. Not 
only will you help us mark the close of our 
second decade, but it will be an opportun
ity for your work to be seen by Mayors 
and their aides from all across the coun
try.
Once again, paintings, prints, drawings, 
sculpture, photography and crafts will be 
juried by slides.
Entry forms are now ready and waiting. 
Send your return address and two firstclass stamps to the Three Rivers Arts Fes-' 
tival, 4400 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15213.
The deadline for returning completed 
forms and slides to the Festival is March 
30,1979.
A panel of seven jurors, all prominent
regional artists, will judge the slide entries. 
The jurors are J. Robert Bruya, of Grove 
City, Pa., Jerry Caplan, Marie Kelly, Irene 
Pasinski, Mark Perrott, Louise Pierucci and 
Frank Webb, all of Pittsburgh.
Regional artists will have the choice of 
entering the Juried Visual Arts Show for all 
10 days of the Festival or the Artists Mar
ket area where space is rented for five-day 
periods, and artists must be on the scene to 
handle their own sales.
Some artists may choose to enter both 
shows. The single entry form covers both.
Cash Awards totalling $3000 will be 
given at the discretion of the jurors, and 
Purchase Awards will be made by area 
corporations.
In addition to the visual arts exhibits, 
the Festival offers continuing performances 
of music, dance, theatre, as well as films, 
childrens activities, on-going art demon
strations and workshops, and always a 
special or two, such as sky sculpture. . . 
all for free.
Carnegie Institute sponsors the out
door Festival which annually draws an es
timated crowd of 200,000 local and outof-town visitors.
Set in the heart of Pittsburghs down
town business complex, Gateway Center, 
the Festival grounds are courtesy of the 
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the 
United States.
Campus Program Planning and the Department of Residence 
Life present an eight-part Human Sexuality Program. All 
programs will be held in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, at 8:00 
P.M. and are open to the campus at no charge. Speakers will 
include professional doctors and counselors from the CMU 
and Pittsburgh area.
Thur. Feb. 1 What Happens During Sex?
Mon., Feb. 5 Birth Control, Pregnancy, and Abortion
Thur., Feb. 8 Sexual Health
Mon., Feb. 12 Alternate Life Styles
Thur., Feb. 15 New Issues: Test Tube Babies, Cloning, Etc.
IXXI

---------------------------------------------------

January 30, 1979 - TARTAN - page 25
Hollywood hears the Who
(CPS)-- Therere rockers all over the 
world, insists Bill Curbishly, manager of 
the British rock band, the Who. The rock
ers, says Curbishly, are what will insure 
the success of the Whos upcoming movie 
Quadrophenia, which is based on their 
1973 album of the same name.
Although album sales were, at a mere 
three million copies, disappointing, 
Curbishly said, the movie is expected to 
rival the success of the the Whos first 
movie Tommy. That movie, 
of course, was based on the rock opera writen by Who guitarist, Peter Townsend, and 
starred lead singer Roger Daltry.
While rumors circulate that Who memb
ers are getting tired of making music, they 
dont appear to be tired of making movies. 
After Quadrophenia, the Who plans a 
science fiction movie based on their
IIIIIIIIIIIIII
album Whos Next.
Roger Daltry also plans another screen 
appearance in a movie version of the book 
McVicar, in which he plays a contemporary 
English robber who stages a sensational 
breakout from a maximum security prison. 
(The real-life con is now a parolee studying 
for a masters degree at Sheffield Universi
ty in England.)
Currently, though, the filming oiQuad
rophenia is about to be wrapped up, re
ports Curbishly, whos also co-producer. 
Public exhibition will start next summer, 
after a debut at the Cannes Film Festival.
Quadrophenia, incidentally, is a noun 
meaning an advanced state of 
schizophrenia. The movie, according to 
. press reports, will portray the violent 
mod-rocker youth conflicts of mid-sixties 
England.
WMMMS
College Ring Sale!
64*
. SAVE ^20'

raiy
FREE OPTIONS FOR MEN S RINGSFREE OPTIONS FOR WOMEN S RINGS
isting F>r*bwr*t D-amofXJ P*n*i Janury EngraiEncrusting Fc*4 Cut CUnuif Son Engraving/IRK71RVED^COLLEGE RINGS
Say a lot about yourself without saying a word
You get your choice of the free options shown above and save money 
Take advantage of this great sale on highest quality college rings See 
them now Order yours today
DEPOSIT REQUIRED ASK ABOUT MASTER CHARGE OR VISA
Save up to $20 or more on men s 
traditional Siladium" rings and 
selected women's 10K gold rings.
SEE THE ARTCARVED REPRESENTATIVE DATE JAN. 30, 31emu bookstore
fN BAKER HALL
3S
*z
S
savings vary slightly from style to style
^lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli^
VOTE NOW! VOTE NOW! VOTE NOW! VOTE NOW! VOTE Nl
c MU STUDENTS
SEND IN 
YOUR BALLOTS!
STUDENTS SEE MORE MOVIES 
THAN ANYONE ELSE! 
MAKE YOUR OPINIONS KNOWN TO 
THE MOVIE INDUSTRY!
Join the Filmmakers of Tomorrow in Saluting the Filmakers of Today 
Schools submitting over 100 ballots will be eligible for a drawing to win a 
brand new Pinball Machine for their Student Activities Center
Official Ballot
STUDENTS CHOICE AWARDS
Best Motion Picture 1978.
Best Performanc2 by an Actor 1978
Best Performance by an Actress 1978 
Best Director 1978 ------------------------
Name of Your School_____________________________________________
Fill out and mail by February 15th. 1979 to:
FOCUS Student's Choice Awards 
1140 Avenue of the Ainencas 
New York, New York 10O3
The Student's Choice Awards are presented in association with the FOCUS 79 Com
petition, sponsored by NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION IN 11 S A  in cooperation 
with Playboy Magazine. Universal Studios. U S. Tobacco. Allan Carr and The Los 
Angeles Marriott Hotel
Students asked for opinion
College and university students across 
the country will, for the first time, have an 
opportunity to vote directly for their 
favorite screen performers and filmmakers 
in a new national poll known as 
Student's Choice A wards.
Balloting will be in association with 
FOCUS 79, a national competition spon
sored by Datsun and open to filmmaking 
and film-study students. Voting Categories 
include Best Motion Picture, Best Perfor
mance by an Actor and Actress, and Best 
Director.
Results of Students Choice Awards
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
balloting are expected to provide a unique 
sampling of opinion among American 
college students--who represent one of the 
most influential segments of the countrys 
moviegoers-concerning theatrical films 
released during 1978.
Winners chosen by student vote will be 
invited to attend the FOCUS 79 Premiere 
and Award Ceremony in Hollywood on 
March 22nd, prior to the Academy Awards 
at which time official presentation 
of the Students Choice Awards will be 
made.
Closing date for receipt of ballots will 
be February 15th. Ballots are returnable 
to: FOCUS, Students Choice Awards,
1140 Avenue of the Americas, New York, 
N.Y. 10036.
A random drawing will also be held 
among schools submitting 100 or more 
ballots, with the winning college or univer
sity receiving a brand-new pinball machine 
for installation in the campus student 
activities center.
FORBES TRAVEL
an officiaLCMU Travel Agency
COMPLETE TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS
"Never a Service Charge'
 COMPUTERIZED RESERVATIONS immediate availabilities and confir
mation of flights
 FREE TICKET DELIVERY ANYWHERE ON CAMPUSfull time delivery 
service
 Payment by Transportation request form for authorized University 
-travel
 We accept all Major Credit Cards
AIRLINES 
HOTELS 
CAR RENTALS 
CRUISES 
RAIL
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL:
Airlines, htels auto rentals 
CMU extension 02999 
or
421-2500
Vacation Planning 
521-7300

---------------------------------------------------

its your
i
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Top talent always makes the right move, 
and so does TRW. Every facet of what 
we are doing is on the cutting edge 
now and the future...tuned into the 
wavelengths of the farthermost reaches 
beyond. If you feel your career is in 
check position, think hard...then make 
your move. Because, at TRW, we 
looking for top engineering talent with 
that intuitive quality of mind who are 
capable of making the synaptical leap 
into the future. There is space for you 
among your peers and lots of 
room. Think about it. The point of power 
is acting now! Its your move!
WE WILL BE INTERVIEWING 
ON CAMPUS...
Monday, February 19
For the following disciplines:
ENGINEERING
AERONAUTICAL 
CIVIL 
ELECTRIC 
ELECTRONICS 
MECHANICAL
MATHEMATICSI
PHYSICS
MANAGER OF COLLEGE RELATIONS 
R5/B180 CM 130 
SPACE PARK 
REDONDO BEACH, CA 90278
At TRW, we have one of the most 
advanced high technology facilities in 
the world. Our products, from the 
smallest micro circuit to the largest
are designed by the top notch 
professionals...with a growing 
bright young people like you 
contribute new ideas and 
concepts. We are diversified enough for 
you to build a sound career and grow 
professionally as your responsibilities 
and contributions increase.
Consider carefully your career goals, 
then consider a company called TRW.
REMEMBER...top professionals are 
the company they keep, 
when the company is called 
TRW, an equal opportunity employer 
offering excellent salaries and an 
outstanding Flexible Benefits Plan.
If you would like TRW to know about 
come by and see us when were 
campus or send us your resume:
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Tartans lead PAC after win over Bethany
Swim team defeated by JC
point spread until the Bisons cut the lead 
to 75-72 with 40 seconds remaining in the 
game. Ten seconds later the Tartans were 
only up by two points and the game seem
ed in jeopardy. However, Hufnagel and 
Belechak converted on 6 straight foul shots 
to preserve the victory.
DeFilippo served out 10 assists, just one 
less than the entire Bethany team total. His 
sharp passing set up good shot selection by 
the Tartans as they shot 64% from the field 
compared to 40% for Bethany. Belechak 
led the team in rebounding with 7 and was 
second in total points with 21. He helped 
pick up the scoring and rebounding ability 
of Dave Huffmeister who was lost when he 
fouled out of the game with 8 minutes re
in ainingon the clock.
The Tartans will face Washington and
Jefferson tomorrow at 8:00 PM at W&J 
and attempt to stay atop the PAC.
Women's BB undefeated
ther good race in the 100 free with a time 
of 51.79, but lost the event by less than 
one second. Tom Barr and Todd Reinke 
finished third and fifth in the stiffest com
petition this year.
Coach of the Tartans, Donna Pecman, 
inspired her swimmers to go out there and 
do your best times. Joe Dickey easily won 
the 200 back, followed by Dave Watterson 
and Mike Hurley. Jim Matysek tried one 
of the most difficult feats in swimming. He 
paced to an easy victory in the 500 free, 
leading the entire race. Tom Gerlowski and 
Janet Axtell also swam the event. Then Jim 
got back on the same block to swim the 
200 breaststroke. His exhaustion was evi
dent. The strategy to sweep the two events 
failed, but Jim still placed second. Brian 
Hobbs and Jamie Uber placed fourth and 
fifth. In required diving Bob Frye and 
Debbie Cohen placed third and fifth. The 
400 free relay was stacked with the best 
sprinters, Tom Barr, Todd Reinke, Joe 
Dickey, and Nick Watts. They annihilated 
the John Carroll relay by more than 
half the pool.
It was an exciting meet although the 
results were not as expected. The team 
went into the meet with an optimistic atti
tude, but look forward to seeing the Blue 
Streaks again in March when the Tartans 
have reached their peak. Next Saturday 
CMU hosts Bethany and Duquesne at 2:00 
PM.
by David Brandwene
Forward Larry Hufnagel hit for 32 
points and guards Maranno DeFilippo and 
Joe Belechak combined for 41 more to 
lead CMU past Bethany 82-76 on the Tar
tans home floor last Wednesday night. 
The win kept CMU on top of the PAC with 
a 5-0 slate while Bethany dropped to 3-2.
Carnegie-Mellon was ahead throughout 
the first half, with their biggest lead of 8 
points coming with 1 minutes to play. 
However, they couldnt break the game 
open and found themselves holding only a 
three point half time lead over the Bisons, 
35-32.
In the second half, DeFilippo sunk 2 of 
his 20 points with 16 minutes remaining to 
ignite 8 unanswered points by the Tartans 
giving them a 49-38 lead. CMU then bat
tled a tough Bethany press to maintain the
The CMU Womens basketball team is undeafeted in the month of January. They 
have won five games in a row since January 
14. The current winning streak has seen 
victories over Point Park, Thiel, Seton Hill, 
Bethany and Chatham. On January 17, the 
Tartans won the opening game of a 
doubleheader against Thiel. The game re
mained close until the end of the second 
half when C.M.U. jumped out to a 10 point 
lead. The final score was C.M.U. 61, Thiel 
52. The following Saturday, the Tartans 
destroyed Seton Hill 7141. Kassie 
Segmiller was high scorer with 18 points 
even though she sat out much of the 
second half because of foul trouble. Last 
Wednesday night Bethany gave the Tar
tans a difficult time during regulation but 
some clutch shooting in the final minut by 
Terry Preskar pushed the game into over
time. C.M.U. eventually won 50-45. 
Scoring in double figures for C.M.U. t 
were Kassie Segmiller with 15 points,
Terry Preskar with 14 points and Shari 
Burton with 11 points. Shari hit the 
boards for 23 rebounds. Chatham College 
was the Tartans next victim. They found 
the going very difficult when they tipped 
off against the Tartans last Friday night. 
Kassie Segmiller scored more points that 
the entire Chatham offense combined. She 
poured in 37 points to bring her season 
average to 23.4 points per game. The final 
score was C.M.U. 77,Chatham 35. Scoring 
in double figures for the Tartans were Shari 
Burton with 12 points and Carolyn Baxter 
with 10 points. The Tartans face a tough 
Washington and Jefferson team tomorrow 
night at W & J. Washington and Jefferson 
is a freat team that fast breaks with great 
success. On Saturday the team is home 
against Point Park. The tip off is at 12 
noon. We invite you to come and watch 
the most successful womens basketball 
team in C.M.U.s history. You wont 
go home unhappy.
Carolyn Baxter flies high as she shows why the women are winners.
Aggressive rebounding has become a Tartan trademark.
by Patti Miller
This past Saturday, the CMU Swim 
Team travelled to Cleveland to the Blue 
Streaks of John Carroll, second place fin
ishers in last years PAC championship. Al
though the Tartans lost 65-48, many of the 
races were close. The Tartans managed to 
stay untouched in five events.
The meet began in the usual fashion 
with the Tartans (Dave Watterson, Jim 
Matysek, Harry Coleman, and Tom Barr) 
winning the medley relay. With only one 
entry in the 1000 free Wilson Boyce took a 
third place. In the first of the close races 
freshman fish Nicholas Watts was barely 
out-touched in the 200 free. Tom Gerlow
ski also swam a good race and broke the 
2:00 minute barrier for the first time this 
year. Maureen Fernandez swam her per
sonal best time in the 200 free. Todd 
Reinke, senior Jeff Bland, and Janet Axtell 
also did well in the 50 free. Co-Captains 
Joe Dickey and Harry Coleman failed at a 
last attempt to overcome the Blue Streak 
swimmer, but both turned in their best 
times this season for the 200 IM. Patti 
Miller also swam in this event for the first 
time this season.
In the required diving Bobby Frye, 
Brian Kay and Debbie Cohen placed 3, 5, 
and 6 respectively. Harry Coleman recover
ed from the 200 IM to win the 200 fly, and 
remains undefeated in this event. Bill Canilany and Doug McPherson also swam ano---------------------------------------------------

When does he 
training slop and 
me doing start?
At Scon, we believe that the best tramtog 
we can give you is experience m putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal 
growth is your goal, achievement ol that goal is 
realized through domg Experience comes from 
doingputting your ideas to work, enjoying respon 
sOlity and accepting accountably
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads tom us. they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept their challenges
Because we recognize individual differences 
our approach is to bmld on your existing skidsto 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop" It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
employer m/f
Contact your placement office lor informationSCOTT
ATTENTION
The Finance Committee of Student 
Senate will hold an open hearing on Sun
day, February 4, from 4:00 to 5:30 in 
Skibo Rm. 12 to give Students a chance 
to air their opinions about this year's 
student organization budget requests.
The Tartans drive in for one of their 10 goals against Boyce Campus.
Enjoy winter
The City of Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation offers city residents 
an opportunity to enjoy the winter months 
in Pittsburgh by providing toboggans for 
sled riding. Every Saturday from 9 am until 
5 pm youngsters accompanied by an adult 
can borrow a tobaggan in Frick Park at 
English Lane; Riverview Park at Wissahickon Nature Center, Schenley Park at the 
Schenley Nature Center; Highland Park at 
the King Estate.
For further information, contact the City 
of Pittsburgh Department of Parks and 
Recreation.
CUUIAIIUNAL 
CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit OurCenters 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference 
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
___WJ.-2ZZZ-.
Tartans goal defense kept Boyce to just two goals.
CMU Hockey team wins
The Tartan Ice^ociiey 'Feam recently be
gan its second half of the 1978-1979 sea
son with a 10-2 victory over Boyce Cam
pus. This was their first game since Decem
ber 10, 1978, when the Tartans struggled 
to a 4-4 tie with Duquesne University.
In the game against Boyce Campus, the 
revived pucksters didnt waste any time 
getting onto the scoreboard. Rick Smith 
fired home the first goal with an assist 
from Mark Jonatti. The game settled down 
for seven minutes, until both teams ex
changed goals. Rick Weeks scored for CMU 
with passes from Tom Grimmich and Mark 
Licata. Boyce answered with a goal only a 
few seconds later. However, Boyces goal 
is what seemed to spark the Tartans into 
a six-goal scoring splurge over the first two 
periods. Chaves scored an unassisted goal.
Grimmich and Weeks.
The second period opened with a score by 
Jeff Reh with a pass from Rick Smith. Two 
minutes later, Tom Grimmich scored, with 
an assist from Don McDade. CMUs power 
play unit put it together midway through 
the second period, with a tally from Mark 
Jonatti assisted by Jeff Reh and Frank Car
ter. Grimmich then scored his second goal, 
with an assist by McDade. Boyce capped 
the second period with a futile score.
Jonatti opened the final period by scor
ing, with a pass from Carter. Most of the 
third was filled with penalties and some 
hard checking. The final goal was scored by 
Carter who took a neatly placed pass from 
Grimmich. The Tartans will attempt to re
main unbeaten with a game at Lakevue, 
Saturday, Feb. 3, against Point Park; game---------------------------------------------------

January 30,1979 - TARTAN - page 29
Many university students want to become involved in a campus 
organization, but find that it is hard to discern what the different groups 
are and what they do. For the student who is interested in playing a part 
in planning and organizing a major segment of the campus' en
tertainment, Activities Board may be the answer.
Activities Board is a student-run, organization, funded by the ac
tivities fee, that plan dances, movies, coffeehouses, concerts, lectures, 
special events, and other events that the board feels the students would 
enjoy. The Activities Board, commonly referred to as the A.B. offers the 
students a chance to choose activities for the campus and organize those 
which they feel will reach a large portion of the campus community.
A.B. is interested in students who have ideas and the desire to par
ticipate in programming events at CMU. Below are listed the various com
mittees of the Activities Board with their functions, goals, and objectives. 
We are currently planning this semesters' events, however all com
mittees welcome new members at any time during the year. On Wed
nesday, January 31st at 6:30pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, we are 
having an Open House with all A.B. committees represented. Join us on 
the 31 st; We would love to have you join A.B.
FILM ARTS
Film Arts movies are shown on Thursday evenings, and are generally 
older films, either classic, artistic, or avant-arde in nature. Tickets can 
either be purchased singularly or in series passes which cover the entire 
semester of films.
FRIDAY FILMS
Friday Films are the more current and popular movies shown on campus. 
They are shown generally every Friday night at minimal cost to students.
CONCERTS
The concert committee organizes and produces both the large and small 
concerts given for campus. The concerts are reasonably priced and en
compass a range of classical, jazz, rock, folk, country, and soul music.
COFFEEHOUSE
Activities Board coffeehouses provide diverse entertainment, including 
folk artists, mimes, magicians, old movies and many more small shows. 
The coffeehouses are free and refreshments are provided.
LECTURES & SPECIAL EVENTS
The lecture and special events committee covers a range of comedians, 
political speakers dance and drama productions that do not fall under the 
previously mentioned categories, and generally free to the student.
T.G.I.F.
The dance committee known as T.G.I.F. (Thank God it s Friday) provides 
various types of dances (both formal and informal) throughout the year. 
Dances are usually free and occasionally are held to celebrate special 
events.
TECHNICAL
The technical committee provides the sound, light and manpower needed 
to produce the events that the Activities Board sponsors. This committee 
is very important to the function of A.B.
OTHER
Any other event that does not fall under the listed committees can 
always be considered. The most important factor is the students who are 
interested enough to make the ideas work.
IM hoops tops in teams
i
i
i
i
2
LOSS
0
0
0
0
LOSS
0
LOSS
0
0
Dribbling Members0
SAE-B0
PKT-B0
Magoo0
Animals II0
IRISHWIN
F. B. Inc.2
ZOO1
5-01
Slaughterhouse-51
ABA1
Aces
ATO-AA0
Neveders0
Wet Dreams0
Cones & Co.0
FRIARSWIN
Schlag-3A2
Short People1
Terrible Tile1
Mudge Marauders1
Mothership1
Slugs1
ZBT-A1
Hawks0
Alkazid Kids0
Allies0
Pi Lamda Phi0
WOLF PACKWINS
Dazz2
Susans Antons1
Stench1
A-Level1
KS-A1
TX Monsters0
PKT-C0
Speedy Others0
White Cross0
Coaches All-Stars0
DU0
Intramurals this week: Table tennis, en
try due February 6, 4:30 for singles and 
doubles. Water Polo, finals will be played 
this week. Bridge, more IM teams are need
ed. Wrestling, check IM Bulletinboard for' 
wrestling practice schedule. IM Board, 
next meeting will be February 8, 12:30 
PM in IM Office. Basketball, this season 
holds the record number of 93 IM teams 
participating.
BASKETBALL 1979
MAJORS
BLUE DEVILS WIN LOSS
Beta-A20
Big Bucks20
Fish21
PKT-A11
ATO-A11
PIKA-A02
Off02
Frosh02
TARHEELSWINLOSS
Over the Hill Gang 3 0
Toast & Jam 2 1
SMD  2 1
SAE-A 1 1
Losers 1 2
Blue Bombers 1 2
55 th and Halstead 0 2
Unbelievable 0 3
INTERMEDIATES
HOOSIERS WIN LOSS
Slippery Mlions
Planets
Small Change
DTD-A
Macks-A
RED

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS&.CLASSIFIEDADS -------
Classified Announcements: There will be a meeting of the FUSION
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 CLUB on February 6 in Skibo Room 11 at 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 7:30 PM. Anyone interested is urged to atBusiness Manager. tend.
classified
For Sale: Upright string bass with bow, co
ver. Very good condition. Call 655-3058. 
Models wanted for haircutting class and
photography. Apply in person. Philip 
Pelusi, 1814 Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill 
and the Bank Center, downtown. 
Wanted: Yellow AMC Pacer.
Call Jeff Masoner, x3979
Linda:
Where's my baby?
Uncle Fred
Billy  Happy 22nd! Don't overdo it this
year. Love always, RJK
To the guys in 8 Woodlawn:"...and from
things that go BUMP! in the night. Lord 
deliver us." - The girls downstairs 
I'm Aunt Dot's nephew, Unde Fred's too.
I like to shoot bugs out of trees.
I'm looking for women from South of St. 
Lu.
To play in between both my knees.
Cousin Floyd
clubs
Student Dorm Council is having
elections to fill council vacancies this 
Wednesday January 31. and Thursday Feburary 1. Any resident student is eligible 
to be put on the ballot by submitting 
properly filled out forms to Skibo Infor
mation Desk by Tuesday January 30. 
SDC needs students to help improve 
the dorms by active participation in 
the organization. SDC provides low cost 
movies to the student body, pays for the 
cost and use of the Dorm's televsion sets, 
throws free parties and dances for the 
dorm students and voices the dorm 
students' problems to the proper 
authorities.
The Health Professions Program is hold
ing a 2% hour seminar on Saturday, Febru
ary 3 at 1 PM in the Social Room of 
Mellon lnstitute(on the third floor). Paul 
Crippan, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs 
for the PA. School of Optometry, and two 
Pitt med-students will discuss the selection 
process and admissions procedures of 
professional Health Schools. Refreshments 
will be served. It will profit any student 
who has any interest in the health field. 
Please enter from Beechwood Ave. en
trance.
The Society of Physics Students is sponsor
ing a talk by Dr. Worthington of theCMU 
Physics and Biology Departments on "Cell 
Membrane Biophysics" on Friday, Feb. 2 
at 3:00 PM in Science Hall 5403. All inter
ested students are invited.
Get ready for the annual SDC Gong Show,
under the BIG TOP at Spring Carnival!! In
terested in contributing an act? Contact 
Mindi Jo Snyder, Box 521 Donner, or the 
SDC box in Skibo.
Reminder: You can pick up a Spring '79
Activities Calendar behind the Skibo Infor
mation Desk.
Commissioner Helen O'Bannon will speak about Job Flexibility at 7:30 PM on Febru
ary 4 in the Wherret Room. Sponsored by 
the Society of Women Engineers.
The Finance Committee of Student
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
DO NOT wait until you fall behind in your
work. FREE TUTORING is available in 
most CIT, MIS, and AMS courses, as well 
as some H&SS courses. Stop in the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A to sign up 
for a tutor.
Rent-a-Tech has these jobs open:
Photography - Wedding pictures Feb. 9
No.275
Architects - Design new room for house
No. 289
Tutors - Statistics No. 292, 260; Elec
tronics No. 328; Geometry No. 324 
MechE/EE - Change manual mechanism 
to electrical No. 276 
Engineer - Take statewide survey No.
273
Office Work - On campus No. 319,
No. 327
Students - Distribute leaflets No. 269 
Students - Paint average size bedroom
No. 320
Students - Babysitters, Babysitters! 
Other Jobs Available, Drop by Room 50 
Skibo or call 578-3535 anytime.
Is it a struggle to find a moment to relax or
to do creative things during your free time? 
Maybe you have never had the chance to 
take a whole semester course or never quite 
learned it on your own. Everyone has ah 
instinctive urge to create, to expand their 
knowledge. Campus Program Planning is 
offering you the opportunity to explore 
the joys of free time and touch upon new 
areas of interest. Beginning mid-February, 
a series of 5-week mini-courses will be of
fered to the entire campus community. 
Courses will be non-credit and will include 
yoga, disco-dancing, excercise, Cardio
pulmonary resusitation, self-defense, art 
appreciation, and others. Registration will 
begin Feb. 5 at the Skibo Info Desk. Watch 
for more details.
CMU AIESEC meets every Wednesday
at 4:30 PM in Skibo 11. The campus com
munity is welcome.
Campus Program Planning is offering a
SELF DEFENSE COURSE to the campus 
community as part of a mini-course series 
beginning in mid-February. This course will 
be taught by Curtis Smith, a Black Belt Ka
rate expert and a certified police trainer. It 
is open to men and women at the special 
rate of $5.00 for students and $10.00 for 
stpff, and will be offered on Monday after
noons at 5 PM, beginning February 19 
through March 19,Registration will begin 
on February 7 at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
There will be a Gospel Show held in Skibo
Ballroom Sunday, February 4 at 3:00 PM 
as a prelude to the Black Awareness Week 
activities. Groups featured are The Four 
Kings, The Pittsburgh AllStars, The Voices 
of Zion, The Spirit Ensemble and many, 
many more. This event is free but a dona
tion will be taken for the Sickle Cell
Anemia Foundation.
Israeli Dancing is held every Thursday at
8 PM in the B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge, 
315 S. Bellefield Ave., sponsored by B'nai 
B'rith Hillel.
Come join Rabbi Alan Fuchs for an infor
mal lunch (corn beef & pastrami) at B'nai 
B'rith Hillel, 3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield 
Ave., on Thursday, February 1 at noon.
A falafel dinner for workers on the Campus
Campaign for Israel and World Jewry will 
be held on Sunday, February 4, at 5:30 
in the B'nai B'rith Hillel Lounge, 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave. Anyone interested in volun
teering their services for educational pro
gramming and solicitations, is welcome to 
attend.
DEADLINE for submitting poetry, fiction,
criticism, correspondence, translation, and 
illustration to the Oakland Review is Feb
ruary 2,1979. Oakland Review staff meet
ing, February 9, 7PM, Skibo Rm. 33.
general
Notice to all students from the Payroll Of
fice: W-2 forms will be available tomorrow 
(Wednesday, January 31) and will be avail
able at the distribution point of payroll 
checks. For example, if you pick up your 
check at the Cashier's Office in Warner 
Hall, your W-2 will be available there. If 
you pick up your check at your depart
mental office, your W-2 will be there, etc.
Gay Supporters at Pitt meets every Sunday
at 6 PM, South Oakland Citizen Council 
Lounge, 412 Semple Street. We have dis
cussions, raps, educational, and social acti
vities. All interested people welcome.
C/ si
Pittsburgh Penguins are having a special
college nite. All tickets discounted up to 
$2.50. For information call Penguins office 
at 434-8911 or Skibo Information Desk.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS, holds open
office hours Tuesday, l:30 to 3:30 PM.
The Pittsburgh Scottish Country Dance
Society will not hold its regular class at the 
First Presbyterian Church in Wilkinsburg, 
Saturday, February 3. The next meeting 
will be Friday, February 9 at 8 PM. For in
formation call Robin Drake; 421-7179.
Interested in becoming a Resident Assis
tant? Job descriptions and applications are 
now available in the Student Affairs office, 
205 Warner Hall. In order to qualify for 
the position, you must be in good standing 
with the University, maintaining a Q.P.A. 
of 2.0. Applications will be available from 
January 17 to February 1. Return all com
pleted applications to the Student affairs 
office 5PM, Thursday, February 1. No 
applications will be accepted after that 
date and time.
LEARN TO SAVE A LIFE... Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation will be offered this 
spring semester, March 12 through' 16, 
12:00 - 1:30 PM in Room 12, Skibo. Upon 
successful completion of the course, par
ticipants will be certified by both the 
American Red Cross and the American 
Heart Association. Course will be taught by 
Earl Birdy, head of the CMU Intramural 
Dept, and Mark Keppler, CMU Athletic 
Trainer. Both are certified instructors of 
CPR. If you have already taken the course 
once before, use this opportunity to renew 
your certification. This course is part of a 
mini-course series offered by Campus Pro
gram Planning. Registration will begin 
February 5 at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Course is free,. Registration fee is $1.00.
U.S. students may find jobs in France, Ire
land, Great Britain and New Zealand this 
summer through the Work Abroad program 
sponsored by the Council on International 
Educational Exchange (CIEE). The jobs are 
usually unskilled - in factories, department 
stores, hotels, etc. Salaries are low, but 
students generally earn enough to pay for 
their room and board while they work. A 
typical job would be that of chambermaid 
in a hotel in London's West End. To quali
fy for CIEE's program, students must be 
between the ages of 18 and 30 and must 
be able to prove their student status. To 
work in France, they must be able to speak 
and understand French. For more informa
tion and application forms, contact CIEE, 
Dept. PR - WA, 777 United Nations Plaza, 
New York. New York 10017.
Clarion State has a program in which you
can earn six college credits in Spanish by
Study Break
 , >.y,.-f ?-;> '' "Wi -|ili ^ ' TONIGHT-9 PM rs
 ^  r-- ' ^  &  Xg*V*..uI.. .Jn
Room 12 SKIBO
y  - v7.
ALL WELCOME
fc~Mt ~H i *i r' im '
'I
 la a 0 i Al  l -ri toi jfljfcj iAi jfjfcrcrtrfa i y pu nfarc/ 'Vjirfrn ^ .nt] i A i linPy >V*Viyi[nra

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS -------
HEY ! THEYVEPAYiKCA$HfORYM <> HUUGES
SEV IS A LOADYou are cordially invited 
to a presentation 
on the Navys officer programs
given by 
Ens. Ian Stenning 
(CMUB.S., ME78)
Came gie-Mellon juniors & seniors 
of aU academic disciplines are 
welcome
February 1 at 7:30p.m. in 
Room 12, Skibo 
Refreshments Served
SOCIETY FOR ANALYTICAL CHEMISTS OF PITTSBURGH 
FEBRUARY MEETING
SUBJECTChemical Analysis of Martian Soils
SPEAKER:Dr. Bruce Hapke
Professor of Planetary Sciences,
University of Pittsburgh
WHENMonday February 5, 1979  8:30 P.M.
WHEREMellon Hall of Science
Duquesne University Campus
All Interested Persons Are Invited To Attend
CI.OTF rv PAPEP - TTFETHER USED 
OH THIS CAMPUS OR NOT. W. ?,IJY 
ALL SALEABLE TITLES.
VAKr. HALL - JAN. 30,31
spending one month in Clarion's intensive 
language and culture program in Toluca, 
capital of the State of Mexico.
The program runs from June 12 to July 
12. During that time students will take 
classes at the University of the State of 
Mexico and participate in various social 
and cultural events planned by Clarion. 
Room and board is provided in Mexican 
homes. No knowledge of Spanish is requir
ed. The program is open to college students 
and high-school seniors.
The total cost (in-state) for jet air fare, 
tuition, room, board, and laundry is only 
$620. For more information contact:
CORRECTING 
"SMITH-CORONA"
ELECTR<C PORTABLE &A> < T&E FAOU> CARTR<DGER<BBON T&AT AKE> < CORRECT<ON> <N >ECOND>>TANDARD KEYBOARD< W<T& TABULATOR.
$ 189.95 List $239.95
Check our discount prices on >C, Olympia, Royal & Olivetti Typewritersanuals from...... $59.50 1
Electrics /from...... $134.95 )
We rake y our old machine In trado.
PHILLIP S. WIENER 
229 Atwood St., Pgh.. Pa. 15213 
683-0313The message above is a paid advertisement
GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER
And let the world cotch it ot The 
Old Country, Dusch Gordens in 
Williamsburg, Vo.
During our 1979 Audition Tour 
we'll be looking for singers, 
doncers, mimes, jugglers, 
puppeteers, mogicions 
bagpipers, violinists, 
bluegrass bands, 
musicians and 
technicians.
A spectacular new Musical 
Revue in our Hastings Music 
Theatre will open the doors to an 
exciting experience for more sing
ers, doncers and technicians than 
ever before.
Work with outstanding talents and earn a 
good salary while you're at it. Get your act together and 
show it to us. Then, get reody to show it to the world.
For further information call Old Country Live 
Entertoinment Department.
Audition Dote:
Feb. 10,1979 (Sot.) 
12 Noon to 6:00 P.M. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Homlet Street Theatre 
222 Croft Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
RuNch Gankns. 
Williamsburg. Va.
An equol opportunity 
employer M/F/H
Accompcrecord ployer and cassetti
Prof. Rafael Diaz y Diaz 
Clarion State College 
Clarion, PA 16214 
Phone: (814) 226-2290
An exhibition of architectural and urban
design projects created by Carnegie Mellon 
University architecture students will be on 
display in the Entrance Gallery of the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute, February 1 
through March 31. Titled "Downtown at 
CMU," the exhibition consists of nine 
design problems and alternate solutions for 
each. The projects include: the develop
ment of the plaza site for Heinz Hall, the 
Golden Triangle Branch of Carnegie Li
brary, Pittsburgh Vistors Center, a rryjseum celebrating Pittsburgh Industry and 
a hotel for the new Pittsburgh convention 
center. The models are complemented by 
drawings, photographs and renderings. 
The museum of Art is open TuesdaySaturday from I0-5 and Sunday from 1-6.
Artist? CMU student? Work with plant
themes? The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, Hunt Library, would like 
to consider your work for an exhibition 
of student art in the Hunt Library Pent
house. Any medium is acceptable, as 
long as the subject is plants. Entry forms 
are available from John Brindle or James 
White in the Penthouse. Selection will be 
made in conjuction with the Department 
of Art. For more information, call x2440.
Modern Israel will be the focus of a special
academic summer program sponsored by 
the State University of New York. The 
course in Israel will consist of an interdisci
plinary study of Israel's economic, social, 
political, religious, educational and scienti
fic institutions. College credit will be offer
ed to participants that successfully com
plete the program. For specific details 
about the 1979 Academic Program in 
Israel, write SUNY Summer Program in Is
rael, Office of International Education, 
State University College, Oneonta, New 
York, 13820
scholarships prizes
College Poetry Review, a contest: Any
student attending either junior or senior 
college is eligible to submit his verse. 
There is no limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are preferred by the Board 
of Judges, because of space limitations. 
Each poem must be typed or printed on a 
separate sheet, and must bear the name and 
home address of the student, and the 
college address as well. Entrants should 
also submit name of English instructor. 
Deadline for manuscripts is Feb. 15. 
Mail to: National Poetry Press,
Box 2I8, Agoura,
Ca. 91301
Applications will be accepted for 3 year
and 2 year US Army Scholarships through 
February 15. The Army scholarship pays 
full tuition plus books and fees and pro
vides a stipend of $100 per month. A ser
vice obligation is incurred. For additional 
details see Major Rivers in Gym 203 or 
call 578-2196.

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
a.b.
FEBRUARY 1 at 6, 8, 10 PM in DH 2210
THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE 
Admission $.75 with ID; $1.00 without. 
Directed by Luis Buuel and filled with his 
ironic humor, this film is a masterful 
presentation of a man, played by Fernando 
Rey, madly in love with a woman half his 
age. She rejects him as fiercely as he 
passionately desires her. The woman, his 
object of love, is played by two different 
actresses who display his desires: One vir
gin sweet and the other a sexy whore.
FEBRUARY 2 starts 6:30 PM in the Ball
room
RAVING BEAUTIES
Admission $1.00 with ID; $1.25 without.
AB Films moves into the Ballroom to bring 
you five ladies of the silver screen: Greta 
Garbo plays a Russian ballerina who falls 
in love with a jewel thief in Grand Hotel; 
Bette Davis is a spinster captivated by a 
suave man in Now Voyager; Gloria Swan
son is an aging silent film star in Sunset 
Boulevard; and to top off the evening, Jane 
Russel and Marilyn Monroe sail to France 
seeking men and/or diamonds in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.
ABs Coffeehouse Committee will be 
presenting Connie Huber on February 3 at 
9:30 PM in the Wherrett Room. Connie is 
based in Chicago, and will be playing guitar 
and singing her own music as well as other 
popular folk music. This event is free and 
open to the campus. Refreshments will 
be served.theater...
CMU's Young Playwrights Series 
continues with Cowboy Mouth (by Sam 
Shepard and Patti Smith) and Angel Bobby 
(created by CMUs Hugh Esten) two 
Rock'n'Roll dramas to be presented 
January 30 and 31 at 8PM in the Theatre 
Express Building 4615 Baum Blvd. For 
further information call 578-2407.
CMUs Departments of Drama and Mus
ic will present the musical theatre produc
tion West Side Story, February 8-10 and 
12-17. Performances will be held at 8:20 
PM, with two Saturday matinees at 2:00 
PM; in the Kresge Theatre. For more in
formation, call the CMU Box Office: 578- 
2407.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Neil Simons Last of the Red Hot Lovers 
opening January 18. For more information 
call 621-4445.
Theatre Express will present Assassins 
January 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, and 28 
and February 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11. 
Curtain times are Thursdays, Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sunday matinees 
at 2 PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will 
present Vanities opening January 31 and 
Ashes opening February 6. Their reper
tory plays will run thru March 4 with per
formances Tuesdays, Wednesdays and 
Thursdays at 8 PM, Fridays and Saturdays 
at 8:30 PM , and Sundays at 7 PM. There 
will also be some matinees. For more in
formation and reservations call 765-3500.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present Edward Albees The American 
Dream from February 2 thru March 10. 
Curtain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
DiCesare-Engler Productions will present 
the Broadway show Chicago at the Stanley 
Theatre on February 8, 9, 10 and 11. Tick
ets range from $6 to $12 and are on sale at 
National Record Marts, Kaufmanns and 
the Stanley box office.
The Kuntu Repertory Theatre will per
form in the Ballroom on February 15 at 8 
PM. Admission is free.
Camelot Production Company will pre
sent the romantic musical fantasy, Brigadoon, for twelve performances beginning 
February 2 through February 25. Perfor
mances will be at the Plaza Theatre, 4765 
Liberty Avenue, at 8:30 PM on Fridays 
and Saturdays, and 7:30 PM on Sundays. 
For reservations call 683-7770.cinema...
SDC will present on February 3:
To Catch A Thief at 6 and 10 PM
Cary Grant, Grace Kelly, Alfred Hitch
cock Director. Cary Grant plays John 
Robie, a retired jewel thief once known as 
The Cat in this suspenseful Hitchcock 
classic. Three academy awrud nominations.
Suspicion at 8 and 12 PM
Alfred Hitchcock Director, Cary Grant, 
Joan Fontaine. Another great Hitchcock 
Thriller. The film has a texture that can 
almost be touched." -Time
Films will be shown in DH2210. Admission 
is $.50 with ID/$1 without.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Reper
tory will present State of Seige on Jan
uary 30 and House Calls on January 31. 
Admission is $2 with two showings nightly 
at 7:30 and 9:30 PM.
Faces by John Cassavetes will be shown 
February 1 at 8 PM in the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall. Admission is $1.
Thing to Come can be seen in the Mu
seum of Art Theatre on February 3, at 
2:30 PM for $1.
Busby Berkeleys Gold Diggers of 1935 
will be shown on February 4 at 7:30 PM 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission 
is $1.
The Pittsburgh Department of Parks 
and Recreation will present The Great 
McGinty on February 1 at the Schenley 
Park Ice Rink. For more information 
call 255-2354.music...
CMU and Pittsburgh Flute Club will 
present a Flute Recital with Wendy Webb, 
Flutist on February 11 at 8 PM in the Alum
ni Concert Hall. This recital is free and op
en to the public.
The CMU chapter of the Music Educa
tors National Conference has people avail
able for giving private instrumental and 
voice lessons. For more information, write 
to MENC, c/o Music Dept., CMU, Pgh., 
15213, or call 521-0420 after 6 PM.
CMU's Baroque Ensemble will give a 
concert on February 4 at 8 PM in the 
Alumni Concert Hall. Robert Page will con
duct.
The Chamber Singers, Max Peterson 
conducting, will perform in the Alumni 
Concert Hall on February 6 at 8 PM.
On February 2 the Whitaker Piano Enssemble, Leonardo Ballada conducting, will 
perform in the Alumni Concert Hall on 
February 6 at 8 PM.
On February 4 at 3 PM there will be a 
Gospel Show in the Ballroom. The event is 
free and open to the campus.
The Pitt Jazz Ensemble will appear along 
with a poetry reading on February 12 at 8 
PM in the Ballroom. Both events are free 
and open to the campus.
On February 18 the Ozanam Strings will 
appear in the Ballroom at 3 PM. Admission 
.is $1.50.
Sha Na Na will appear at the Stanley on 
February 16 at 7:30 PM, February 17 at 
7:30 and 10:30 PM and February 18 in a 
matinee, time to be announced. Tickets are 
$6, $7 and $8 on sale at National Record 
Marts and Stanley box office.
Chuck Berry, will appear in concert at 
Allegheny College on February 2 at 10 PM 
in the Campus Center Auditorium. Tickets 
are $7 on sale at National Record Marts.
WDVE and DiCesare-Engler Productions 
will present an evening with Stephen Stills 
and his band March 24. Tickets are $9.75 
on sale at National Record Marts and the 
Stanley Box Office. For more information 
call 281-3700.
The Conservatory Trio (David Bartolowits, violin; Gail Czajkowski, cello; Brett 
Duggan, piano) will perform trio music by 
Beethoven, Brahms, and Copland on Jan
uary 30 , at 8 PM in Alumni Concert Hall. 
Admission is free.
Dede Ondishko and Edmund McKenna 
will perform solo works of Brahms, Chopin, 
Copland and Schumann. Also included 
on the program will be duets of Brahms 
and Faure performed by Terry McLane/ 
Marge Chen and Daniel Dosch/John Fer
guson. This concert will take place on 
February 2nd in Alumni Concert Hall 
at 8 PM. The public is cordially invited. 
A reception will follow the concert.
Red MacDonald, folksinger/guitarist/ 
songwriter who performed at the CMU 
freshman orientation weekends of 1975 
and 1976, will be making his first Pitts
burgh appearance of the year, January 26 
and 27, at the Portfolio, S. Craig St. in 
Oakland. For more information call 682- 
8594.
Andre Previn will conduct the next se
ries of Pittsburgh Symphony subscription 
concerts in Heinz Hall on February 8, 9, 
and 11. Concert times are 8 PM Thursday, 
8:30 PM Friday, and Sunday afternoon at 
2:30. Ticket information is available by 
phoning 281-5000.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
Victoria Bond conducting, will perform 
works by Beethoven, Bartk and Dvorak in 
a concert free to City of Pittsburgh resi
dents on February 6 at 8 PM in Heinz Hall. 
Tickets are being issued from the City De
partment of Parks and Recreation, 400 
City-County Building.
art...
B. King, R. McKelvy, and W. Thomas 
will display paintings and drawings at 
Forbes Street Gallery from January 30 
thru February 4. Gallery times are Wed
nesday thru Sunday 12 to 4 PM and Tues
day thru Thursday 7 to 9 PM.
The collection of Dr. and Mrs. 
Raymond Goldblum will be on display in 
Gallery D, Museum of Art, Carnegie In
stitute from January 25 thru March 11. 
Museum hours are Tuesday thru Saturday 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
There will be an art show in the Faculty 
Lounge on February 16 and 17.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
Reflections from the Third Day-Photo
graphic Revelations of Plant Designs will 
be on display from November 20 thru Feb
ruary 16 in the Penthouse of Hunt Library. 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Friday, from 9 AM 
to 5 PM.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Winter Show of members prints 
at the Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and 
Shady Avenues, from January 27 - Febru
ary 18, 1979. The exhibit is free and open 
to the public. For more information call 
Debbie Turici at 761-0439.
The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh's 
69th Annual Exhibition will open Febru
ary 9 in the Heinz Gallery of the Museum 
of Art, Carnegie Institute. The exhibit will 
run thru March 15 with Museum Hours 
being Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 
PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
6tC...
Liberace will entertain at Heinz Hall for 
9 shows, January 29 through February 4, 
joined by The Magi Circus of Tiawan, Mar
co Valenti, Steve Bor and Dancing Water. 
Performances will be at 7:30 PM. Matinees 
on Saturday and Sunday will be at 2:30 
PM. Tickets range from $11.50 to $6.50 and 
are on sale at Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns and 
Gimbels.
Siobhan McKenna will appear in a pro
gram, The Brandy Tree, which is a reading 
from Irish writers on February 23 at 8 PM 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets are $4, 
$6, $7.50 and $9, available from the Inter
national Poetry Forum.
Five segments of Country Matters, the 
multi-award-winning dramatizations of the 
works of short story masters A.E. Coppard 
and H.E. Bates, will air on Masterpiece 
Theatre beginning February 4, at 9 PM on 
WQED/13.
CMU Student Projects will be on dis
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Mu
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from Feb
ruary 1 thru April 1. Museum hours are 
Tuesday thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM 
and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
There will be a talent show in the Ball
room on February 23 at 7 PM. Tickets are 
$2 at the door and $1.50 advance.
There will be a fashion show and dinner 
dance on February 16 at 6 PM in the Ball
room. Tickets are $6.
Erica Jong will give a poetry reading at 
the International Poetry Forum on Febru
ary 14 at 8 PM in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Student tickets are $2.25.
come dance Che light fantastic!
2HIMM!
2001 WEST GENERAL ROBINSON STREET 322*4949 m
PITTSBURGH, PA (NfxT op TMBii inated doTpHEHn F
EVERY FRIDAY AND SUNDAYmm2002 ROUTE 4t AN0 IWC0LN WAY 664-0553
EVERY ^FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE AREAS ONLY EXCLUSIVELY
UNDER 23 DISCOS!*
MM
o 
S3*M o*
I iofo _
CO
I 5 
I o
I!  i p
00 a. 
< 2 
S f
1 2 1
hi
I I I
? ! j o t |
 ? I
 I in
