TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University
Pittsburgh, P 15213
Bush: 'best candidate'
George Bush, Republican candidate for President was greeted outside Skibo last Thursday by Jeff 
Zaslow, former Editor-in-chief of the TARTAN before speaking to over 400 CMU students, includ
ing members of the Pennsylvania Collegiate Press Association. For related stories, see pages 6 and 7
of this week's TARTAN
GSO wants own Senate
by Jim BaJsom thing is the unity of the students on camThe Graduate Student Organization anpus. He said that the graduate students had
nounced at the last Student Senate meeting unique problems and interests, but felt 
that it will explore the options of separatthat Senate can, and does, take into
ing from Student Senate and forming its account this type of situation while still
own governing body that will eventually working together. Spirit is a good
control the Activities Fee grad students example, he said. If the GSO followed
now pay to Senate. their lead, it would be in the best interest
Rich Korf, Vice-President of the GSO of the campus.
confirmed reports that informal approval continued on page t
for the plan had been given by Earle 
Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, and CMU 
President Richard Cyert.
Korf said the GSOs next step will be to 
get official approval for their plan from
TARTAN wins
14 awardsWarner Hall.
The TARTAN Staff walked avUnder the plan being proposed by the14 awards followed by Lehigh UnGSO, if the graduates eventually get theirId White which won 10 awown government there would be a jointTwo papers, Villanova Uni
Villanovatt, and West Chester State C 
leges The Quad, won 7 awards each.m;to supervise the funding of all organiza
jg tions that appeal to both graduate and
undergraduate students. Korf said orga
nizations like WRCT would probably haveCMU Award Winners
Andy Epstein wto present documentation on the make-up 
of their audience before funding could 
be fairly decided.
Ralph Sherman, Student GovernmentPaul Alasiandro plays th Wizard in Scotch 'n' Soda's current production of 'K1JE' which runs 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday in ths> Ballroom, Rwlew on pay 17, ________________President, said that the most importan

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
 Volume 80 
Number 24 
April 15, 1980
Editor-m-Chief: Susan Borg 
Managing Editor: Smita Pai 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Associate Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Production Manager: Ed Zayas 
News Editor: Jim Balsom Sports Editor: Wesley Seeley
Features Editor: Renee Rosenfeld Dossier Editor: Lynn Epstein
Entertainment Editor: Richard Gorelick Photography Editor: Robert Zusman
Contributing Editors: Michael Brzustowicz, Art Director; Tom Hart
Jean PBllegrini 
Ken Kulak
News: Jeanne Abmayr, Assistant Editor; Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed 
Frankenberry, Chris Gebhardt, Dan Horgan, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet. Kim Kunkle, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, 
EHiot Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Audrey Mojinie.
Entertainment: Paul Banks, Melody Mazzie, Alan Spero, Assistant Editors; Kate Bertrand, Alex Czajkowski, Bob Henry, 
Dave Kirby, Timothy LeVan, James Patterson, Mignon Rabineau, Scott Schaeffer, Ted Smits, Karen Stevens.
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Pat Krump, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser.
Production: K. MacPhee Kulak, Assistant Manager; Michael Brzustowicz.
Photography: Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd.
Art: Robert Conroy, Tom Megalis, Dave Robinson.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour answerino service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
TARTAN
Vote in the Primary!
Enough is enough
$2700 to $3100. $3100 to $3400. $3400 to $3700. 
$3700 to $4100. And most recently, $4100 to $4700.
Sound familiar? Theyre the increases in yearly full-time 
tuition from 1976-77 to 1980-81. If you do the quick 
subtraction, thats an $1800 increase over 5 years$1000 
of which is being borne by students enrolled during the last 
two years (a number, we might add, which is not quite 
under President Carters 7% anti-inflation guidelines).
Many students at CMU are already caught in the seasonal 
rituals of FAFs, BEOGs, CSLFs, and the various and sundry 
forms of financial aid with the associated contracts demand
ing first-born children or first several years wages, which
ever comes first. And it is becoming increasingly difficult to 
justify these increases, even to we who purportedly reap the 
benefits of extra funds. (Remember J.L. Swedlows com
ment (TARTAN, 5/1/79) that a tuition increase was in part 
justified by the belief that were passing ourselves off as 
a cheaper product?)
Late this week the TARTAN found out that the Tuition 
Committees recommended tuition increase for the year 
1981-82 is a whopping, unwarranted and unjustified $700. 
What, dare we ask, do Dr. Cyert and Company intend to do 
with this newfound wealth?
We can only assume that the Administration will 
follow the same intelligent and concerned methodology 
they have used to create our current educational environ
ment. The money will be spent to fund overcrowded 
lectures, purchase inadequate and insufficient laboratory 
and teaching supplies, not hire English Department faculty, 
asphyxiate printing majors in the Coal Research Building, 
and add a new wing to the beautiful, sparkling, non-existent 
Student Union.
Such an increase, even when one strains to overlook the 
usual administration spending policies, is unconscionable 
with current predictions of large cuts in federal financial 
aid money.
The Trustees {trust: firm belief or confidence in the 
honesty, integrity, reliability, justice, etc. of another person 
or thing; faith; relianceWebsters Dictionary, College 
Edition, 1960) are meeting next Monday. We hope that 
they will reject the Tuition Committees proposal and 
realize that money can be better gained by streamlining 
University administration and striving for ethical and fair 
practices instead of reaching into the pockets of students 
and their families.
No more tiers
Last week the Graduate Student Organization (GSO) an
nounced their intention to form a seperate graduate student 
government with the power to allocate graduate student 
activities fee money. This announcement, like the initial 
formation of the GSO, stems from grad student dissatis
faction with the current campus programming. They feel 
that their needs are different from the needs of under
graduates; therefore, only a small number of graduate stu
dents participate in campus activities.
Though a seperate graduate student government which 
would sponsor its own activities with its own funds seems 
like a remedy to the existing problems, there are many ques
tions that warrant investigation before formal action is 
taken. For example, what is the real reason that most grad
uate students do not participate in campus activities? Is it 
because there are no programs that interest them or is it 
because grad students are less involved with campus life in general?
It seems that many graduate students are simply not 
interested in extra-curricular activities. Those who are 
interested become involved. The TARTAN, for example, 
has always had graduate students as staff members. The 
GSO should be sure that the graduate students, as a whole, 
have the interest and time to organize and program their 
own activities If they dont, they could end up with noth
ing.
Graduate student governments at other universities often 
sponsor few or no activities due to lack of interest. In ad
dition, their activities money will no longer go towards es
tablished activities.
The physical split between undergraduate and graduate 
students will only intensify the many divisions that al
ready exist on this campus. Without a unified government 
there cannot be a unified campus. The best answer to grad
uate student complaints is to work within the existing 
systemform special graduate student divisions within 
existing organizations.
One GSO official stated that if the move is a mistake it 
can always be switched back. The TARTAN disagrees. It is 
much easier to investigate possibilities before a change is 
made than it is to correct a major mistake. A break with 
the current student government will create wounds. The 
scars will make it difficult to change back.
dWh diteiVl
hanotiv
Respecting your article last 
week about the PFE program 
at GSIA, to place the situation in 
its setting you should list the en
tire series of presentations this 
year:
Wednesday, February 6, 1980 
The Iron Clad Agreement: 
Father K
Wednesday, February 13 
Professor David Demarest 
Out of this Furnace
Tuesday, February 19 
David Pittle, Commissioner 
U.S. Product Safety Commis
sion
Wednesday, February 19 
Honorable Patricia Derian 
U.S. Assistant Secretary of 
State for Human Rights 
Wednesday, March 5 
Mary Gardiner Jones, Vice 
President 
Western Union (former Com
missioner, Federal Trade 
Commission)
Wednesday, March 19 
Ben Fischer, former Assistant 
to the President 
United Steel Workers,
AFL-CIO 
Wednesday, March 26 
Richard M. Cyert, President 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Tuesday, April 1 
Staughton Lynd, Historian
letters
Wednesday, April 2 
The Iron Clad Agreement: 
Edison
I have been arranging these 
series for more than ten years. 
They are designed to present 
various aspects of the environ
ment of business. We are endeav
oring to enlarge the horizons of 
these managers respecting the 
changing environment in which 
their businesses exist. We also in
vite all CMU students and faculty 
and the general interested public.
Some of the speakers we have 
heard in the past few years have 
been:
Clifford Alexander, Jr., former 
Chairman of the US. Equal Em---------------------------------------------------

viewsThe future of SUPA grads in the public sector
The following View from the 
Top  was written by Alfred Blumstein, J. Erik Jonsson Professor at 
SUP A.
As the grass on the cut begins 
to turn green and the end of the 
semester approaches, at least onequarter of the CMU student body 
begins to think of where they go 
from here. Many are shocked by 
the transition from the loosely 
structured, exhilirating academic 
environment to the hierarchical, 
routinized operations of the large 
bureaucracies-both public and corporate-that operate our society.
Management of those bureau
cracies was traditionally the re
sponsibility of a social elite whose 
comparative advantage was partici
pation in the right social networks 
reinforced by a classical general 
education in the liberal arts. In 
more recent years, the corporate 
world came to recognize the 
importance of management tech
nology, and has increasingly turn
ed to those who understand that
technology and have put cor
respondingly less emphasis on 
their participation in the social 
networks.
The public sector is increasing
ly coming to address that same 
fundamental issue. It has taken 
longer because it is much more 
difficult to develop effective 
technologies to guide public man
agers. The behavior of police cars 
in their relation to crime is far 
more complex to understand and 
manage than that of an automobile assembly line. Also, the sim
ple concept of Profit=RevenuesCosts must translate into many 
more dimentsions of social 
effectiveness. In addition, any 
public decision affects different 
groups differently, and the politiics of those impacts must be 
understood. Thus, the choices as 
well as the feedback mechanism 
are much more complicated.
The coming decades, however, 
are likely to see the public sector 
adopt management technologies
much more vigorously. This 
change will result primarily from 
the strong public pressures on 
government to increase perfor
mance without raising taxes. The 
taxpayer revolt was triggered by 
Proposition 13 in California, fol
lowed by tax limitation laws in a 
number of states, and the recent 
cut of $15 billion in the Federal 
budget by the Senate and House 
Budget Committees and the President-an astonishing act of una
nimity. Thus, the pressures on 
government to spend less but 
to deliver more will require no 
miracles, but great managerial 
competence.
These political developments 
have been accompanied by the 
development at Schools like 
SUPA of research results and 
management tools designed for 
the complex problems of the 
public sector. These are increas
ingly being used by public man
agers, and the great need has been 
for more managers and practi
tioners who can understand them 
in order to use them well and 
wisely.
The traditional public admini
stration graduate was typically 
trained in materials that were not 
much more than advanced courses 
in civics, but they got little of the 
technical skills necessary for man
aging in the increasingly complex 
public environment. Thus, the 
forward-looking leaders in the 
public sector have turned to 
SUPA (and other schools like it 
that have been established at 
Harvard, Berkeley, Duke and 
elsewhere) to provide them with 
key staff and managers. SUPAs 
first class graduated eight years 
ago, but a number of those grad
uates are already serving in very 
senior executive positons, includ
ing budget directors, Congression
al staff directors, sub-cabinet of
ficers, and central roles for 
Pennsylvanias Governor.
The availability of such jobs is 
well in excess of the number of
available candidates. Students 
facing an uncertain future much 
more often look to the traditional 
professions of law, medicine and 
corporate management. On the 
other hand, the public sector is 
very much where the action will 
be in the coming years for those 
whose taste for challenge is 
stronger than their concern for 
security, for those who view the 
opportunity to introduce ration
ality and responsibility into our 
government processes as more 
important than marketing or 
manufacturing a widget, and for 
those who recognize the inherent
ly central role that the public 
sector must play in our increas
ingly interconnected society.
SUPA was created to bring 
about improved management in 
the public sector, through con
ducting research and training 
practitioners. The opportunities 
for both challenge, stimulation, 
and impact are great. It 
a career potential that far too 
many are still unaware of.
ployment Opportunities Commis
sion (now he is Secretary of the 
Army).
Saul D. Alinsky, Executive 
Director, Industrial Areas Foun
dation.
Richard J. Barnet, Institute for 
Policy Studies.
Alan Barth, former Editorial 
Writer, Washington Post, author.
Merton C. Bernstein, Coles 
Professor of Law, Washington 
Univ. St. Louis.
Dr. Timothy Costello, former 
Deputy Mayor, City of New York.
David Demarest, Professor of 
English.
Patricia Derian, U.S. Assistant 
Secretary of State for Human 
Rights.
Dr. Daniel Ellsberg, Massachu
setts Institute of Technology.
Richard N. Gardner, Deputy 
Assistant, Secretary of State, In
ternational Organization Affairs, 
and Professor of International 
Law, Columbia University.
Lewis D. Gilbert, Minority 
shareholder advocate.
Mitchell I. Ginsberg, Admin
istrator, The City of New York 
Human Resources Administration.
Fred P. Graham, New York 
Times Reporter, covering the 
United States Supreme Court 
(now reporting for CBS).
Dr. Walter Heller, Former 
Chairman, Council of Economic 
Advisiors and Professor of Eco
nomics, University of Minnesota.
Townsend Hoopes, former 
Under Secretary of the Air Force.
Mary Gardiner Jones, Vice 
President, Consumer Affairs, Wes
tern Union; former Commissioner, 
Federal Trade Commission.
Jonathon Kozol, teacher, Bos
ton, Massachusetts.
Victor H. Kramer, Director, 
Institute for Public Interest Rep
resentation, Univ. of Georgetown 
Law Center (now special Counsel 
to the Attorney General of the 
United States).
Robert Levine, Assistant Direc
tor, US. Office of Economic 
Opportunity.
Don Luce, former Director of 
the IVS Program in Vietnam, 
Center for International Studies, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York.
Carey McWilliams, former Edi
tor, The Nation, author.
Helen B. OBannon, Commis
sioner, Public Utility Commission, 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Dr. Andreas G. Papandreau, 
formerly Department of Eco
nomics, York University, Toron
to.
David Pittle, Commissioner, 
U.S. Product Safety Commission.
Alvin Francis Poussaint, M.D., 
Assistant Professor in Psychiatry, 
Tufts University Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
Joseph Rhodes, Member, 
House of Representatives, Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania.
Lucien Saulnier, Chairman of 
the Executive Committee of the 
City of Montreal.
Reverend Leon H. Sullivan, 
Zion Baptist Church, Philadelphia.
Richard Thornburgh, U.S. At
torney for the Western District of 
Pennsylvania (now Governor of 
Pennsylvania).
Dr. Adam Yarmolinsky, Pro
fessor of Law, Law School of 
Harvard University.
Dr. Marina Whitman, Professor, 
Department of Economics, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh; former 
Member of the Presidents Council 
of Economic Advisers.
Jerry Wurf, International Pres
ident, American Federation of 
State, County and Municipal 
Employees, AFL-CIO.
Certainly this is a list of useful 
programs containing information 
and viewpoints related to our 
educational objectives.
Thomas Kerr
Associate Professor of Industrial
Administration and Law, GSIA
The bell tolls for thee 
Editor:
The other night a group of my 
friends and 1 were down in the 
lobby of Morewood and a bell was 
going crazy. Above it were the
words warning bell or some
thing to that effect. When the 
alarm went off, NONE of those 
emergency doors opened. Being a 
resident of Morewood, I am much 
concerned with what would hap
pen if we had a fire and none of 
those doors would open. There 
would be a mad rush for one 
door. I think it is very poor of 
housing to compromise our safety 
by putting in such a lousy fire 
system, and I think something 
should be done immediately. Un
less of course, someone is waiting 
for some of us to get hurt first.
Burnt
Name Witheld Upon Request.
Memorial to John Fitts
A black hat trying to hide 
more hair than any hat ought to. 
Gumbands keeping beard and 
smile unobstructed/ Neon rain 
jackets, rain or not. Ever see him 
in a three-piece? I thought every 
GSIA prof wore a three-piece. He 
had a smile.
Yellow Corolla wagon. Boat 
racks and boats waiting for the 
first excuse. Inside, toothbrush 
priming ever-present smile. Wait
ing for the first excuse.
Professor Fitts is not in now, 
may I take a message? Paddle to 
get away. This afternoon? Im 
sorry, Professor Fitts is still not 
in. Paddle to get away.
Fast on the way to paddle. 
Slow out of the showej and on 
the way to food. Food? Wok cook
ery with too much hot.
Where can you find a CMU 
prof who would drive to Prince
ton to paddle concrete canoes? 
Drive? Country music and bluegrass just fine. Best listener and 
advisor.
Differential equation to prove 
accelerated depreciation of the 
vehicle, assuming constant costs. 
Just to calculate weekend trip 
expenses.
Better chances of smoke than 
brew on party night. Hey, 
thats one of my professors!
Nothing rash. Not words, not
expressions, not actions. Rarely 
joked. Never swore. Best listener 
and advisor.
Themedependable. 7:30 AM 
three times a week to the gym. 
Gym? Steady runner. Steady lifter. 
Strong mind driving a body to 
greater strength. Strength is a new 
dimension. Newborn and growing 
fast.
Always learning. Cheated by 
usually learning the right way. 
Teaching when not learning. Lead
ing while learning. Always learn
ing. Newborn and growing fast.
It stopped us all to hear the 
news.
It made the big game pause.
It made the big game pause.
Fitting that Johns final acqui
sition was a new boat. Yellow and 
Black For the City of Champ
ions.
A style to which we became 
accustomed.
A style to which we became 
accustomed.
by Two Friends 
Scratch one
Editor:
I would like to withdraw my 
candidacy (Senator, CIT) from 
the coming Student Government 
Re-elections.
Thank you, 
Soterios A. Papoulias
Beating around the Bush
Dear Editor:
I attended the George Bush 
speech. I was certainly dismayed 
to find that our Vice-President 
(who did a fine job) and not the 
President of our University, intro
duced the Republican Presidential 
hopeful. Where does President 
Cyert come off so smug as to not 
introduce such a famous person? 
Who the hell does he think he is?
I was quite embarassed to have 
this occur. I think it was a slap in 
Mr. Bushs face, and I think the 
President of the University should 
explain why he didnt want to 
introduce a possible President of 
the United States. I think it sucks,
and I was very embarassed by our 
University.
Name Witheld Upon Request
Marching along
Editor:
As my career at CMU as a full 
time student is coming to an end
I would like to talk about some 
rewarding experiences I have en
joyed as a result of affiliation with 
an organization that repeatedly 
falls victim to long standing 
stereotypes which are often un
true, outdated, or both. This or
ganization .has enabled me to 
spend considerable time outdoors, 
and develop leadership and" man
agement skills through practical 
experience (something youre 
hard pressed to find at CMU). In 
addition it has provided me with 
over 300 dollars to spend as I 
please. By now you might or 
might not have guessed that this 
organization is ROTC. Being in 
the army isnt necessarily a pleas
ant thought for me, but it isnt 
likely that the unique array of 
challenges and rewards it has 
afforded me could be found any
where else. I certainly cant 
think of anywhere else that would 
pay you to get in shape, learn how 
to mountaineer, find your way 
through the woods, or survive off 
the land, much less teach you to 
parachute for free. By now a lot 
of people are saying Sure, but 
what about the 3 or 4 years 
youve got to spend in the army? 
Well, that is one of those outdated 
stereotypes. 1 have a 90 day com
mittment, and then Ill join a 
National Guard unit wherever Im 
working. And, in most places, the 
National Guard spends more time 
helping their communities than 
they do defending their country. 
All things considered, the ROTC 
has been a worthwhile experience 
for me. Im sure it could and I 
hope it continues to be a reward
ing endeavor for even more stu
dents at CMU.
Sincerely, 
Roger J McQill

---------------------------------------------------

NDSLCarnival's Here
?
LOANSMemories so dear
I DO YOU HAVE ONE? IIt's been a great year.| ARE YOU LEAVING |
| SCHOOL? |

| IF BOTH YES THEN |Remember it
| YOU MUST ATTEND AN |in the 1980 Thistle.
 ONLY TAKES EXIT ONLY TAKES |
a 5 ^ y# ' ' \
V A
MINUTES MINUTES
* 1 
Just a few left?
I APRIL 21-25 !on order
1 9:00am - 4:00pm |at the
CASHIER'S OFFICE I
<Skibo Information Desk
1 WARNER HALL |
*
1
...........................................................................................................................
COMING...
ONE WEEK AFTER SPRING CARNIVAL!
ONE WEEK BEFORE FINALS!
END OF THE YEAR BLOWOUT
FRIDAY. APRIL 25th( 8:30 P.M. 
MARGARET MORRISON APARTMENTS'
COURTYARD
FEATURING
"THE SILENCERS11
PITTSBURGHS NEWEST AND HOTTEST ROCK N' ROLL BAND 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS
"THE CLIQUE"
PRESENTED BY AB LECTURES 
AB DANCE 
SDC PROGRAMMING 
AND THE RESIDENTS OF MARGARET MORRISON APARTMENTS
*

---------------------------------------------------

April 15,1980 - TARTAN - Page 5
Christian Folk Music by Chuck Sessa
Saturday Night, April 19 
5:30 PM 12:30 AM 
Skibo Cafeteria
Bush: 'best candidate'
PFE program
'No politics involved'
by Stuart Schlisserman
In an interview last Friday, GSIA pro
fessors Jerome Foster and Bernard Gold
smith shared their comments and percep
tions of the low attendance of Program for 
Executives (PFE) members at the April 1st 
lecture by Staughton Lynd, a historian and 
activist lawyer for the unions in recent 
steel plant closings.
It is true that the diplomacy was not 
handled well, commented Dr. Foster 
when asked about the scheduling of a trip to 
Falling Water at the same time as Lynds 
lecture. But he added that the same thing 
would have happened, no matter who was 
scheduled to speak. He also stated that the 
sentiment that he felt Lynd was a socialist 
and activist (attributed to Foster in the 
TARTAN, 4/8/80) was not his words at 
all, and that Professor Tom Kerr did not 
know him well enough to realize that the 
remarks were meant to be lighthearted.
Foster admitted that it was a discour
tesy to leave Lynds name off of the weeks 
printed agenda, but that Lynds talk was 
quite good and Foster would be eager to 
invite him back. Although Lynds name 
was left off the agenda, Foster commented 
that it would probably have made little 
difference, as at least one PFE had said 
that the program was of little interest.
Bernard Goldsmith, Director for Con
tinuing Education and the Associate Dean 
of GSIA, stated that politics were not an
issue here, and emphasized that the Lynd 
talk had been scheduled for the last week 
because of re-scheduling problems (a com
mon occurance with the PFE talks).
Foster said that much of the confusion 
described by the TARTAN was a result of 
conversations between a reporter and Ed 
Domaingue, a journalist in the PFE pro
gram. Domaingues comments about Piofessor Kerr were simply not true, and that 
the evaluations of Kerrs contributions 
were very positive. Foster added that Kerr 
offered the PFE program something that it. 
lacked.
When questioned about people being 
disturbed by Kerrs lecture on Sexuality 
and the Work Force, Foster explained that 
he had heard of no one being offended. As 
for his own reported walking out of Kerrs 
lecture, he said that he could not afford 
the time, and that he had left most of the 
talks during the program. I would see how 
it was going at the beginning and leave, 
he explained.
Foster stressed that the executives did 
not avoid the lecture because Lynd repre
sented the unions in the Youngstown plant 
closing case. He cited the lecture of Ben 
Fischer, an assistant to a former president 
of the United Steelworkers (AFL-CIO), 
which passed off without comment. 
Although many people had disagreed with 
Fischer, the majority of the PFEs had at
tended the talk.
George Bush
Presidential hopeful George Bush making a point 
to CMU students last Thursday in the Wherrett 
Room.
Ronald Reagan
Former California Governor Ronald Reagan was 
campaigning in Pittsburgh last Friday in prepara
tion of the upcoming Pennsylvania primary.
continued from page 1 we should have broken off relations with
main points were that this country must: Iran weeks ago.
keep its defenses up, build a three ocean final statement on foreign policy
navy, and be careful not to overcommit was, Ill be strong, but I wouldnt be
ourselves. Regarding Iran, he said . . . reckless.
Senator Edward Kennedy with Georgeanne Cherpes after a press conference last Tuesday. Georgeanne 
is the Senator's campaign coordinator for CMU.
Free refreshments will be provided
Coffeehouse sponsored by InterVarsity Christan Fellowship and Shadyside College Fellowship.
photo by Susan Borg photo by Jim Balsom

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - TARTAN - April 15,1980
GSO & Senate
continued from page 1
Korf said he didnt think Senate had 
any veto power over the GSOs proposal 
and added that he thought it was solely 
the Administrations decision.
Sherman was not clear on Senates role 
in this possible secession attempt by the 
GSO, and when asked what Senates reac
tion would be to being told they may have 
no say in the matter, he replied that he 
was concerned about that possibility, 
but felt that the situation would not come 
to that. He indicated that Senate and the 
GSO were considering changes in the cur
rent Student Government structure 
designed to prevent forming two separate 
governments, but declined to elaborate on 
specific proposals that were being 
considered.
Architect wins energy award
Architecture student Larry John Diurba won the 
Student Contest for Energy-saving Ideas.
by Andrew L. Ragan
The idea to convert part of the Science 
Library heating system to solar energy has 
made Larry John Diurba of the Architec
ture Department $25 richer.
Diurba won the money for submitting 
his suggestions to the second round of the 
Student Contest for Energy-Saving Ideas.
The Presidents Committee on Energy 
Conservation at CMU sponsors the contest, 
which begins again this week for the semes
ters last round. It is designed to give stu
dents incentives for getting involved in 
energy conservation on Campus, and is a 
way the Energy Committee hopes to reap 
the benefits of CMU students ingenuity. 
Up to three $25 checks will again be re
warded for the best energy-saving ideas 
submitted in the next two weeks.
Diruba suggested that a concrete beam 
spanning the Science Library and certain 
library windows could be converted into a 
passive solar system to heat the library.
In his proposal, the winner stated what 
changes his suggestion would require in the 
present system, and noted that though the 
project would be expensive, it could be a 
worthwhile energy-saving prospect. He 
also suggested that the government would 
be a possible supporter in the ideas de
velopment.
Assistant Dean of MCS Lois Kiss said 
the idea won because it was conceivable 
and well-thought out. The Energy Com
mittees technical advisors were also evalu
ating its feasibility.
The deadline for entries in the contestss 
last round is Tuesday, April 29. Address 
your entries to:
Energy Conservation Committee
Rm. 115 Scaife Hall
Be sure to include your name, campus 
or home address, and student ID number 
Drop your suggestions off in Campus maiJ 
or leave them at the above address.
Reagan in Pittsburgh 
as PA Primary nears
by Kim Kunkle
Ronald Reagan spoke to an enthusiastic 
crowd of 1200 at a fundraising dinner in 
the Greensburg area Thursday night. 
Reagan stated that he intends to cut the 
fat from federal programs the same way 
he did in California, where he asked for the 
help of business leaders in finding ways to 
make government more efficient; and 
favors turning many federal programs back 
to State and local control. Also, Reagan 
says he does not favor registration, as it 
would only cut the time needed to assem
ble a fighting force by a few days. Instead,
he says, we should increase salaries and 
benefits in the armed forces, to attract 
qualified people  since many skilled 
Navy men make less than they would at a 
checkout counter, and many are forced to 
take moonlighting jobs to make ends meet. 
There was silence after Reagan said that 
every one of those boats filled with miser
able refugees from Vietnam and Cambodia 
have a message written on them: This is 
what happens to friends of the United 
States. This, says Reagan, must be 
changed; America must once again show 
herself strong enough to protect hersell 
and her allies._______________________
H&SS
SECOND ANNUAL
SPRING FLING
APRIL 20,1980
GATEWAY PARTY LINER,TQu Kl
BOARDING: 6:30pm MonongahelaWharf
TICKETS 
8:00 am -11:00 am Coffee and Donuts
254CBH
11:00 am-5:00 pm AAC 161BH 
Students $8.50 
Faculty and Staff $10.00 
Open to the campus community 
Sponsored by the H&SS SAC
VV#
$
Wa4
w,&
W.8
y {v.y
? ,.v
t{:&
%
%

---------------------------------------------------

features
Election 80: If this is your first time, it shouldnt hurtrTTT^TT RE-ELECTPBFsmF\
PRESDENTANDERSON
FRESI DEN TCARTERITS A MATTER OF VAI .UES.
Kennedy80
r asse
for PRESIDENT
George Bush
A President we wont have to train.
FEATURES THIS WEEK:
The Pennsylvania primaries are only one week from today (April 22) and this state is 
crucial to each partys candidate nominations. If you are still undecided as to who de
serves your vote, the TARTAN provides summaries here to inform you of background 
information and stands on various issues of the candidates.
Carter 
Kennedy . 
Reagan .. 
Anderson 
Bush
How significant is the Pennsylvania primary?
by Georgeanne L. Cherpes
Tuesday, April 22, 1980, could be the 
biggest turning point in the race for the 
Republican and Democratic presidential 
nominations. Up until recently President 
Carter has won a commanding majority 
of the electorate. Starting with the Iowa 
caucuses and the New Hampshire primary 
all the way through the southern states 
primaries and caucuses, Carter maintained 
an overwhelming lead, and it appeared as 
though Senator Kennedys only choice was 
to throw in the towel. There was much 
speculation that if the Senator did not win 
New York, he would withdraw himself 
from the race. Up until 2 days before the 
New York primary, polls showed that 
Kennedy was trailing Carter by some twen
ty odd percent. Election results proved 
differently. Kennedy won the New York 
primary as well as the Connecticut primary 
by large margins.
The outcome of the Pennsylvania pri
mary will go a long way in determining 
whether or not President Carter is still 
the Peoples Choice. Kennedy must win 
big in Pennsylvania in order to gain enough 
ground for nomination at the August Dem
ocratic Party Convention in New York. A 
recent poll showed that Kennedy was lead
ing in the state by three percentage points, 
his strongest area being the eastern part of 
the state. Carter still has a lead in south
western Pennsylvania, but it is not enough 
to overcome his deficit in other portions of 
the state. A three point lead is hot enough
and it could possibly deter the Senators 
chances. Both campaigns must continue to 
push full speed ahead toward the primary, 
with the main objective being to maximize 
voter participation. Neither candidate, at 
this time, is a shoo-in, with a lot at stake 
for both.
As for the Republican Party, Ronald 
Reagan is maintaining a substantial lead 
over his opponent George Bush. John 
Anderson is not on the ballot for the 
Pennsylvania primary, however, his name 
can be written in. George Bushs early 
lead commencing in the Iowa caucuses 
was superficial. Reagan, with strong 
showings in a majority of the primaries 
and caucuses so far, seems to be the over
whelming choice for the Republican Presi
dential Nomination. A win in Pennsylvania 
for Reagan would just about clench the 
nomination.
Pennsylvania, unlike California, works 
on the percentage delegate system. Instead 
of awarding all the delegates to the winner, 
they are allotted in ratio to the percentage 
of votes received by each candidate in the 
primary.
While it is too late to register to vote in 
this years primary election, there is still 
time to register for the General Election in 
November. Applications to register can be 
picked up at the Bureau of Elections, 
6th Floor, County Office Building in 
downtown Pittsburgh.
Iran: Carter's most effective campaign weapon?
by Kathy Krummert
Perhaps, the most controversial candi
date in the 1980 election is the incumbent, 
President Carter, because of his handling 
of the country in the past three years. His 
fervent advocation of human rights, lack 
of experience in Washington and unsure ness 
in foreign policy all have had great effects 
on his performance as President of the 
United States. Below, listed briefly, are 
some of Mr. Carters accomplishments 
during his term and his stands on various 
issues.
On Foreign Affairs:
One of his biggest credits is the signing 
f the Egypt-lsrael Treaty. Under him, 
the Senate ratified the Panama Canal 
Treaty and full diplomatic relations have 
been established with China. A major set
back has been the Iranian crisis.
On Military and Defense:
Despite an initial promise to cut defense 
spending, it has increased. Mr. Carter has 
agreed to a 3% increase in defense spend
ing, along with the European Allies. He
employment fell from 7.7 percent to 6 
percent, but inflation has risen from less 
than 5 percent to over 18 percent. He 
claims that his economic stimulus pro
grams, which included $31 billion tax cuts 
in 1977 and $18 billion tax cuts in 1978
'Perhaps the most controversial 
candidate in the 1980 election . .
supports weaponry development in some 
areas (MX mobile missile, continental mis
sile, medium-range missiles in Europe, new 
class of Trident nuclear armed submarines), 
but not in others (neutron bomb and 
B-l bomber). He favors draft registration.
On Economy:
Since President Carter took office, un
strengthened the economy. Critics say 
no  these measures have made inflation 
worse. He rejects mandatory wage and 
price controls, favoring instead voluntary 
wage and price guidelines. He is seeking 
cuts in domestic spending, including some 
of his own programs. He supports curbing 
consumer credit, restricting the money 
supply and raising interest rates. Concern
ing business, he signed the bill on invest
ment tax credit, extensions, and capital 
gains tax reductions. He and Congress 
agreed on airline deregulation but not on 
railroad and trucking industries deregula
tion. Mr. Carter favors some bank deregu
lation. He opposes power reduction of the 
Federal Trade Commission.
He included in his budget increases for 
science, technology and small business. To 
protect against price declines caused by re
strictions from the Soviet grain sale embar
go, he is spending almost $3 billion. 
Amtrak cuts and Chrysler loan guarantees 
have been approved. International trade 
tariff barriers have been reduced and anti
dumping procedure provisions have been 
strengthened, all to protect the dollar 
overseas. President Carter increased the 
minimum wage in 1978, the first time in 
four years.continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - TARTAN - April 15, 1980
THE AMAZINGKRESKIN
Kreskin is one of the countrys most popular and baf
fling mentalists  a brilliant showman who mixes 
hypersensitivity, suggestion, ESP, and the clever 
mechanics of the traditional magician to entertain his 
audiences.
Performance Magazine
Can Senator Ted Kennedy win the uphill battle?
World's foremost Mentalist
Student Discounts Available Upon Presentation of I.D
heinz i\aii
was in shock and because of this forgot 
to mention the accident.
His wife Joan has not been very helpful 
either. A self professed alcoholic (now 
receiving treatment) Joan and Ted have 
been separated for the last 3 years. Ken
nedy has had the reputation of being a 
woman chaser, though most of his reported 
escapades can be considered dubious at 
best. Kennedy also has had some phys
ical problems that have hampered the 
campaign. In a plane crash he injured 
his back and since then has been in almost 
constant pain especially if he has to do a 
lot of walking. Because of his injury
imFIxxhas done il again.
IN BAKEN HALL
by Ted Smits
Seven months ago, Senator Ted Ken
nedy decided to seek the Democratic 
Partys nomination for President. At that 
time he was leading President Carter almost
2 to 1 in various public opinion polls, 
politicians and the news media alike were 
looking forward to yet another Kennedy 
brothers attempt to become the occupant 
of the White House, Now Kennedy has 
won less than half as many delegates as 
Carter. In the 16 primaries and party
caucuses since the beginning of the year. 
Kennedy has only convincingly won the 
contests in New York and Connecticut. 
Unless Kennedy begins to win and win 
regularly it is more than likely that
President Carter will be his partys nominee 
once again.
As usual, there are a number of reasons 
that Kennedy is not living up to the pro
mise of the pre-primary polls. The candi
dates stand on the issues, his personal 
life and the campaign he has run have all 
hurt him, Kennedy is probably the most 
respected liberal Senator in Congress
right now. Throughout the sixties and 
seventies Kennedy has helped pass some of 
the most significant legislation in the areas 
of health care, housing, and social welfare 
programs. He currently supports more
housing for the elderly, medicaid abortions 
for the poor, federalization of the welfare 
system, expansion of home and child 
health care, and the Gay rights plank of the 
Democratic platform.
In foreign affairs he has been a moder
ate (no one ie ever a liberal in foreign 
affairs). He supports a united Jerulsalem 
and is opposed to talks with the PLO, the 
arms sale to Saudi Arabia and the recent 
UN resolution condemning Israel. In 
economic issues he is in favor of wageprice controls, full employment and an 
increase in federal funds to unemployed 
people (CETA). He is opposed to an 
expansion of nuclear power and the de
control of oil, but he favors some form 
of gas rationing.
Many of his positions are similar to 
those of Carter and candidates such as 
John Anderson, yet Kennedy has been 
wiped out regularly in the primaries. One 
reason for these defeats is undoubtabley 
the Chappaquiddick incident almost 11 
years ago. After a night of drinks, snacks 
and charcoal broiled steaks Kennedy and 
28 year old Mary Jo Kopechne left a 
party on Chappaquiddick Island to head for 
their respective hotels. Somehow, Ken
nedy headed in the wrong direction to
wards a deserted beach. While crossing 
the Dike Bridge Kennedy lost control and 
the car ended upside down in six feet of 
water. Within minutes Kennedy had 
managed to extricate himself from the car, 
but Mary Jo did not. After a long night 
in which he claims to have among other 
things swam across a 500 foot channel, 
Kennedy finally reported the incident 
to the police. Throughout the night he had 
seen a number of people but he claims he
Kennedy has not been able to always run 
an energentic campaign. Of his three 
brothers Kennedy is probably the most 
introverted. Unlike John or Robert, Ted 
is not a natural Presidential candidate, 
his roots are in the Senate.
In addition, because of Kennedys late 
entry in to the race he does not have the 
extensive campaign organization set-up 
that Carter has. More than once the 
deficiencies in his organization have cost 
him a primary victory. At this time Ken
nedy needs to win almost 65% of the up
coming delegates to prevent a first ballot 
nominationof Carter. Whether he can win 
or not is still a question, but it seems 
that his breaking a variation of the old 
Wisconsin law of politics, to never be 
found in a bed with a live man or a dead 
woman will effectively prevent his nom
ination this year.
* His new book is a thoughtful, thorough guide for runners of all abilities, ft's the perfect companion to his first marvelous book on running..George H*sch. The Runner
The 1980s* must buy 
for eveiy runner...
Anyone from a beginner to an experienced run 
ner should find some interesting and useful 
information in Jim F'ixx's new book '
Jtpmr Carnegi President.
Road Runners Club of Amenca
Extraordinary...
Jim V ixx makes his points so clearly and 
simply that no runner could tail to under 
stand him " Allah J Rvan md 
I ditorin Chief. Thi'Phtp# umS/mrts/iKi/ tin
I enjoyed this 
book a great 
deal...
Fix* analyzes the spoil like a 
surgeon Bu. Roooers
The book will be a great help to Americas millions of runners.Cjw n Wvtz. Worn^n 
World Record Holder in 
-gM Marathon
emu
THURS., APRIL 17, 8 P.M.
Tickets $8.50,7.50,6.50 on sale at 
Heinz Hall Box Office and Kaufmanns
V
photo by Renee Rosonfeld

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1980 - TARTAN - Page 9
r -,*1
^ tVatLSeteoS'
W ,tc 811 AVU CO***tSeS '** . S2.S c< c\sseS lt '?*'
\i N o* a** rl   cu ,;v>"'i' c..ss'""' v\s1'iotfV*1ft So<Totfett*9 . 0*1 1U1*' IU'"S *YY V) ta^V>S -TyjjO * C,eSS'0 Y>eQ'"s
frt!re^C -GCO?^ send10V''SpXv^c 2^ nor^tl0n
->^fwa" v^s. '&?-:.............................................................
* ft' o\^S  \o^J 1 Please send me a schedule of classes
  CoCX , | Home Address Collcjt Addit*
'S^>WS *.V't In_____________________ -Ca Vxs^ cneec^
 c"e^" * 1 ----------------------------- -------------------- C ,o^'cS Oos^v0" Ic**  **' - **" -  s--.*<*$ a**0  ____________________________________
a e^' L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------______________
uhr?
WOMEN S HEALTH 
SERVICES INC 
1209 ALLEGHENY TOWI 
625 STANWiX STREET
Pittsburgh pa 1*22212)562 1900 
MONDAY SATURDAY
A girl becomes a woman when she assumes responsibility tor herself
Ronald Reagan: the Governor tries again for the White House
President Carter: Does he have it in the bag?
continued from page 7
On Energy:
President Carter favors a regular ten 
cent a gallon tax to replace the import 
fee designed to reduce foreign oil imports. 
He approved phased deregulation of natu
ral gas and Congress will most likely ap
prove a fuel development program from 
shale, coal, and other materials. He opposes
gas rationing at present and his plan for 
stand-by authority to order gas rationing 
was passed in a watered down version. 
Carter created the Department of Energy. 
He opposes a moratorium on nuclear ener
gy usage.
On Social Programs:
President Carter created the Department 
of Education. He orooosed the health in
surance plan providing catastrophic hospi
tal coverage for all Americans. He approved 
bills providing more programs for the 
handicapped, blind, and poor. He opposes 
the constitutional amendment to outlaw 
student bussing. He advocates helping with 
welfare in some states. He proposed a pro
gram to help the poor with fuel costs  it 
was approved.
On Environment:
He has protected 100 million acres of 
Alaskan wilderness and opposes the public 
works water project in the West. He has 
made efforts in Strip Mining protection. He 
is pushing for an Energy Mobilization
Board that would waive environmental 
laws to speed energy projects. He has 
agreed to offshore drilling and leasing and 
some easing of air quality standards regu
lation.
Mr. Carter has increased the number of 
females in the Federal Government; two of 
his Cabinet members are women. He op
poses Medicaid financed abortions. He sup
ports ERA.
(Information compiled from Re-elect Car
ter for President literature and New York 
Times article by Steven R. Weisman, 
March 21,1980.
IRON CITYSCHUTZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMP ALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHUTZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER LIGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUN0AY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS  MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 46. MOL SON ALE. LOWENCRAU DARK STROHS HCINCKEN LIGHT One different 160/Spt featured each wee*
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT B ush:' u b ROLLING ROCK 
Wa ARa NOT ALLOWaD TO ADVaR
TIZa OUR LOW BaaR PRICaS
 SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
---------------------- IMPORTS -------------------------
SHOPS, INC
etcandii :h etcacciG
BASS ALE England 
OORT HANSA Garmany 
SAM MIGUEL PN*pmaa
 SPATENBRAU Garmany
 ST PAUU GIRL Garmany 
PILSNER URQUELL Crach 
GUINESS STOUT Iraland 
DAS XX EQUIS Mexico
 WUR2BURGER Garmany
 HARP LAGER Iraiand 
LOWENBRAU Garmany 
O'KEEFE ALE Canada
 DINKEL ACKER Garmwry 
TECATE Maxico 
ISENBECK W Garmany 
IRYST ALL Italy 
MACKESON England
 KIRIN Japan
 PERONI Italy
 RIGNES Norway 
BECKS Garmany 
HOFBRAU Garmany 
ZYW1EC Poland 
KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico
 FUSltRS AuatraiKa 
HEINEKEN Holand
 MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Garmany 
GOSSER AuaMa TANKARD London
 UNION W Garmany
 PALE ALE London 
DINKEL Garmany
 WARFTEINEL Garmany
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH RA 15213
Al Women's Health Services you receive 
professional, confidential help
 Free pregnancy testing
 Free pregnancy counseling 
 Termination of unwanted
pregnancy
 Contraceptive care program
 Sexuality counseling
 Marriage counseling
 Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests
 Sonography
Learn how your body works 
and take good care of it 
Call or write today
Former Governor of California Ronald Reagan is a poli
tical conservative. He is seeking nomination to the presiden
tial election on the Republican ticket. His position on key 
election issues are as follows:
Reagan does not favor ratification of the SALT II Treaty 
because, he feels, it will not serve to genuinely limit stra
tegic nuclear weapons. The treaty will only continue to al
low the production of nuclear weapons in the Soviet Union 
while allowing the United States to try and catch up to 
their level of production.
Reagan favors tax cuts in 1980 or, in his words, at any
time... his policy would be to design a tax reform based on 
putting the tax structure back into the position of meeting 
the requirements of our free enterprise system. This ties in 
with the issue of the rampant inflation of the American 
economy. Reagan believes it is the Federal Governments 
responsibility to reduce the amount of money being printed 
in excess of the the nations productivity level. Reagan also
favors a Constitutional Amendment to balance the budget. 
Further, he feels that less regulation of industry would aid 
the failing economy. Reagan does not favor the heavy regu
lation currently in effect on the steel industry. Steel pro
duction in America once accounted for 47% of the worlds 
production, and now accounts for 19% of it. Similarly, 
Reagan favors less restriction of the coal industry: speci
fically, easing restrictions on the burning of coal. 
Miscellaneous:
Reagan does not favor the reinstatement of the mili
tary draft. He also is opposed to the federal government 
funding of abortions, and the proposed extensions of the 
ERA ratification date. Reagan feels that the American 
situation in Iran would not have been helped by the for
mer Shahs not being in the UJS. Reagan said that for 
humanitarian reasons he would have also permitted the 
Shah to enter the United States, and that the Shah was as 
good an ally as weve had.

---------------------------------------------------

John Anderson : the only moderate in the race
jMcc hKboRnc
Why not the best? says John B. 
Anderson, U.S. Representative from 
Illinois. Most people dont see why not, 
but, unfortunately, politics is not that 
simple. Because appealing to an entire 
group as diverse as Americans is virtually 
impossible, each candidate has a specialty, 
each an audience to which he caters. By 
studying the background, opinion, and 
personality of every candidate, we can 
discern what is best for ourselves as
individuals. On the basis of those decisions, 
we can only hope that the elected 
candidate is, indeed, the best for all.
John B. Anderson is a declared candi
date for the 1980 Republican Presidential 
nomination, but he is not a typical 
Republican. To thoroughly evaluate 
Anderson and why he is atypical, one must 
first look at his history. Born in Illinois in 
1922, Anderson grew up as one of six 
children in a closely knit, Swedish, and 
devoutly religious family. Graduating as
valedectorian of the 1939 class of 
Rockford Central High School, Anderson 
went on to study Political Science at the 
University of Illinois, from which he 
obtained a B.A. degree and membership in 
Phi Beta Kappa. With a two and a half year 
interruption to serve in the U.S. army, 
Anderson continued in the universitys 
graduate law school to take his J.D. degree 
in 1946.
In the following years, John Anderson 
went from an apprenticeship with a law 
firm to a fellowship at Harvard University 
Law School, and then became a practicing
.. You acquire 
more knowledge, 
you study new 
ideas, you recognize 
change, so you grow.
lawyer in Rockford. Three years later in 
1952, he gained the responsibility of staff 
advisor to the U.S. High Commisioner for 
Germany, a job he held for three years in 
West Berlin. Upon resigning, Anderson 
returned home to resume his private law 
practice.
It was not long before local Republican 
party leaders came seeking Andersons 
experience and talent for the position of 
State Attorney of Winnebago County, 
an election he easily won. Furthering his 
political career, Anderson had a decisive 
victory for a vacant 1960 Congressional 
seat, a position in which he voted a strict 
Republican line for several years.
By the mid-1960s, however, Anderson 
began moderating his stance. He supported 
such measures as increased federal aid to 
education, expanded food stamp programs, 
consumer protection, gun licensing, and 
federally guaranteed housing loans. In an 
interview with Paul Duke for the New 
Republic (1968), Anderson explained his 
shift away from orthodox conservatism:
 ... You acquire more knowledge, you 
study new ideas, you recognize change, so 
you grow. This altered attitude came to a 
head in 1968 when Anderson publicly 
broke with the conservative Republican 
wing. Concerning an open housing bill, he 
announced on the House floor, I legislate 
today not out of fear, but out of a deep 
concern for the America I love. We do 
stand at a crossroad. We can continue the 
slide into an endless cycle of riot and 
disorder, or we can begin the slow and 
painful ascent toward the yet distant goal 
of equality of opportunity for all
Americans, regardless of race or color.
From there on. Anderson continued his 
endorsement of moderate/liberal actions 
He opposed U.S. involvement in the 
Indochina war. He condemned the Cam
bodian incursion. He recommended  a 
more restrained policy  in dealing with 
foreign affairs. Although in favor of a 
strong defensive posture, Anderson 
suggested that millions of wasteful, inefficient defense allotments could be funneled into programs to improve conditions 
here at home.  ... the internal conditions 
today are such that they do pose a real 
threat to the continued security of our 
country. 
To political lobbyists, Andersons 
fluctuating liberal/conservative position 
poses a puzzle. He votes liberal on most 
social welfare issues, yet conservative on 
economic issues. His stand on the gasoline 
crisis is simply to charge more, a feat 
accomplished via a federal tax of 50 cents 
per gallon. He is a strong supporter of all 
major civil rights legislation, including 
ERA. Anderson is pro-government-funded 
abortions for the poor, and he is also an 
avid conservationist, as is shown in the 
Udall-Anaderson Lands Act to preserve 
wilderness.
Other issues at hand, all of which 
Anderson is opposed to, include the 
military draft, a tax cut, and a constituHe votes liberal on 
most welfare 
issues, yet 
conservative on 
economic issues.
tional amendment to balance the budget. 
Internationally, he favors a grain embargo 
and supports the Panama Canal treaties. 
Fighting as hard as ever since 1968, 
Anderson is still pushing to end racial 
segregation in housing.
At 58 years,- Republican Congressman 
John B. Anderson has led a steadily ad
vancing political career. Although this is a 
claim that may be equaled by other 
presidential hopefuls, Anderson has proven 
one point exceedingly well: he is not afraid 
of change. This is not to say that ha is 
incapable of stability or decision making, 
but that he has the courage to be openminded.
In following with his own adaptability, 
Anderson suggests in his leaflet: Think 
before you vote. He has presented solid 
opinions and programs by which you can 
make a judgement. Why not the best? 
That answer is up to you.
Responsible Mellon undergraduate 
Research Fell6ws University *of Pitts
burgh require inexpensive housing 
for june 2 thru July 28. Will house 
sit or sublet apartment, Oakland, 
Shadyside, Squirrel Hill. Contact 
Mrs. Kaufman 624-2360. Weekdays 
9 to 5.
RING ORDERS
ORDER YOUR CMU OR CIT RING AT THE 
BOOKSTORE
10 A.M.-4 P.M. 
$15. DEPOSIT
TUESDAY, APRIL 15
TRADE IN 
YOUR OLD 
10K GOLD 
HIGH SCHOOL 
RING
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16
EXCALIBUR 
SALE PRICE 
LADIES $72 
GENTS - $77
THE GOOD, THE BAD, THE FUNNY, THE SAD 
THE PLACES, THE FRIENDS, THE TIMES. THE TRENDS 
ALL THE GAMES. AND ALL THE NAMES.
YOUR RING...IT SAYS IT ALL!
Carnegie-Mel Ion University gs
Ovr 40 Vmort of Sorvle* to CIT and CMU1
Bausch & LombTARNPrN esRisi
SOFT LENSES
*7950
PAIR
Wti V ctTtkneVontc 
VKKtncolRcof rV
281-1100
QUALITY. Our lenses are the very same as those 
selling elsewhere for up to S3<H).
VALUE. Our low priee includes: high-quality soft 
contact lenses, adjustments, training, orientation, 
carrying case, and as much eye care as needed for 
90 days. Hard contact lenses available (a $35 a pair. 
Price includes tints. Master Charge and Visa cards 
accepted. ^ ^
PRECISION
 CONTACT LENS ASSOCIATES INC.
Where You Get More Than Meets The Eye 
Park Bldg.. 1 -4th floor. 355 5th Ave.. Pittsburgh. PA 15222
lEMMfta8fifi8t9l>Q08QMMMQQQOOmQOQQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOQOQOQQQQOQQQQQQWQaQQa9QQQQgQQQQMigjiorg ,RplfP wSSkof TyJZZ
OOflOQOtOOOOOOOOOOQQQOOOOOQOOOOOOPMiUM&MMgJJtMMMiMmJijUMimi^gOQQOOOOOOQOQQOOQOOQOOOQOQOQOQOi^

---------------------------------------------------

April 15,1980 - TARTAN - Page 11
For George Bush : experience may be the key
kM dVF slno.
Remember the Nixon Republicans? Well, 
theyre not all in jail. In fact, George Bush 
is running for president. Bush has cleverly 
taken his unfortunate political ties and 
turned them into a campaign pitch: As 
the head of the Republican National 
Committee (in 1975) he kept the repub
lican party alive during a period when 
others were predicting its demise... due to 
wrongs committed by a few individuals.
Heres a brief look at George Bushs 
background. He was born in Massachusetts 
and grew up in Milton, Connecticut. His 
family is wealthy, and American since 
before the revolution. He went to PhillipsAndover Academy, and enlisted in the 
navy at age eighteen in 1942. He was a 
carrier pilot in the Pacific in World War II. 
Once out of the Navy, he completed an 
economics degree at Yale in two and a 
half years.
He worked in Texas as a sales represen
tative for two years, then co-founded 
Zapata Oil Company , with financial backing 
from his father. He was elected to the U.S. 
Congress in 1966 as a Republican from 
Texas, and was re-elected in 1968. He 
made two unsuccessful bids for the Senate, 
in 1964 and 1970.
In 1971, Bush was appointed ambassa
dor to the U.N. by President Nixon. He 
received the appointment to chairman of 
the Republican National Committee in 
1973. In September of 1974 he was ap
pointed by President Ford to be the Chief 
U.S. Envoy to China. He had earlier been 
adamant in opposition to recogizing 
mainland China or admitting them to the 
U.N. He lived there until December of 1975. 
In January of 1976 he was appoiQted 
Director of the C.I.A. in the wake of the 
dismissal ,of William C.ollpy  He held that 
post until 1979, when President Carter 
took office.
Bush is regarded as a man of unquestion
able integrity. While he has a relatively 
clean record compared to most Washing
ton Republicans of the Watergate era, his 
slate is not entirely clean. Early in the in
vestigations surrounding the scandal he ad
mitted to having received, during his 1970 
Senate campaign, $106,000 from a slush 
fund set up by President Nixon to secretly 
finance preferred candidates. Perhaps a 
more serious weakness in ethics is his ten
dency to be perhaps too loyal. He protested 
Richard Nixons innocence until Nixons 
resignation, and supported all military
a summer job: 800-331-1000
Work as a Manpower 
temporary. Flexible 
schedules. Good pay. 
Assignments available in 
your college town or 
hometown. Please call, 
toll free.
MANPOWER'oTEMPORARY SERVICES
ment there. His positions are nearly all 
uniformly Republican.
gymdySLN dOsSTSONs
While George Bush supports increased 
military spending, he wants to balance the 
U.S. budget by 1982 and begin to cut taxes 
immediately. His biggest cuts in domestic 
spending, according to interviews, would 
be in the food stamp program and in stu
dent loan programs. He feels that both 
are now excessive. #
His position on energy policy is proindustry. He favors deregulation of price 
and allocaton for natural gas and oil. He 
is strongly in favor of counteracting 
environmentalist legislation that has ham
pered the mining and burning of coal in 
the U.S. He opposes government funding
to develop synthetic fuel, he feels that de
regulation and tax incentives will create 
a climate that will permit the private 
sector to proceed with a competitive 
synthetic fuel industry.
Defense is stressed by Bush. He says 
(and is presumably well informed, consi
dering his CiA. position) that the Soviet 
Union considers itself prepared enough to 
survive, and therefore win, a nuclear war. 
He feels that in order to avoid such a con
frontation we must build up strength and 
develop weapons to the point where they 
c would have no hope of survival. He is in 
I favor of development and deployment of 
5 the neutron bomb, the long range cruise 
 missile, and a new manned bomber. He is 
o in favor of compulsory registration for 
> both men and women. (A position which is 
$ carefully obscured in his position papers, 
 and downplayed in his campaign.)
Bush falls to the left of Reagan on only 
a few issues, most notably in that he sup
ports the E.RA. He is against amend
ment of the Supreme Court decision on 
abortion, an action supported by Reagan, 
but he is opposed to federal funding for 
abortions. He is basically a thorough con
servative, making a few compromises for 
support from the Womens Movement.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
Computer Science and Engineering Graduates
A Mutual Investment Plan for Your Career
W.Vo MtF rVc RVic VktFo Fb lVM wR kR o.R VcbwRi ot MtFi rViRRi 
cRRab. OFi kFbncRbb nb o.R aRvRtKlRco tf btK.nbonrVoRa kVcknce Vca 
kitkRiVeR bMboRlb fti o.R wtiab fncVcrnV ncbonoFontcbf rtlKRx 
ncoRneRcrR bMboRlb fti etvRiclRco Vca lnnoViM VKKnrVontcf aRRK 
trRVc btcVi bFivRnVcrR bMboRlbf RRroinrV Vca RRroitcnr 
rtlKtcRcobf aRRK KnR fVkinrb Vca lFr. ltiR.
yo BFckRi RVltf wR iRrtecnzR o.Vo lRRonce o.R r.VRceR fti o.R 
fFoFiR nRb nc tFi VknnoM ot rtconcFVM VooiVro Vca aRvRtK cRw oVRco. 
yb V iRbFof wRiR aRanrVoRa ot o.nb fFcaVlRcoV rtcrRKov kM ncvRbonce 
nc MtFi fFoFiRf wR rVc Vr.nRvR V bnecnfnrVco iRoFic tc tFi twcf Vca 
that's tcR tf o.R kRbo ncvRbolRcob wR rVc lVkR.
WRiR V WtioFcR 5uuf lFonTcVontcV rtiKtiVontcf wno. trVontcb 
o.itFe.tFo o.R UcnoRa soVoRb Vca VkitVaf Vca bVRb cRVince $5uu 
lnntc KRi MRVi. WR ViR cto bt VieR o.Vo wR atco kctw tFi KRtKR 
wRf kFo VieR RctFe. ot KitvnaR RxrRRco tKKtioFcnonRb fti o.tbR 
wnnce ot ncvRbo o.Rni oVRcob nc Fb.
Sf MtFa nkR ot fnca tFo ltiR VktFo .tw wR rVc fno ncot MtFi KVcbf 
KRVbR bRca Fb MtFi iRbFlRv
BUNKER
RAMO
Bunker Ramo Corporation 
Career Opportunities 
900Commerce Dri\e 
Oak Brook. Illinois 60521
AN EQUAI OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER <M F)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - TARTAN - April 15,1980
SDC freezes RSAF funds
Listed below are the upcoming SDC 
events for Carnival weekend, along with 
other dates of importance:
April 15All RSAF funds of those 
constitrrarccies without a representative by 
this date will have their funds frozen, and 
money will then be available to other 
constituancies for special projects. 
CARNIVALSDC events 
April 17Square Dance
April 18Muddy Waters Concert - 
tickets available through your SDC rep. 
Disco
Wrestling bear/or boxing kangaroo in 
the tent
April 19Gong show 
Cabaret
. April 28is the earliest date to with
draw money from .Vali-Dine accounts.
TARTAN wins awards
Members of the CMU community had a chance to meet Willie Smith, nephew of Senator Edward 
M. Kennedy, and the Senator's daughter, Kara, as they spoke to the PCPA conference held last 
weekend. Photo courtesy of Elaine Howe, Mansfield State College JFJashlighi
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*5
*
*
*
*
5-SPRING CARNIVAL 
CORSAGES
FOR THE BENEFIT OF 
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
CHILD CARE CENTER 
EXT. 2149
***
*
*
si*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
continued from page 1
Louise Molnar won second place in 
for her piece on Erin Clarkes 
mask production that was presented in 
a most readable manner.
The TARTAN took second place in 
the area of layout. This is the first year 
the PCPA has recognized the production 
phase of the newspaper. The received a 
4.5 on a 5 point scale.
Robert Zusman won the first place 
award for advertising with his use of a 
half page photo in an ad which appeared 
in the 11/30/79 issue announcing a TAR
TAN photo staff meeting. Jean Pellegrini 
took second place in this category for her 
Homecoming 79 ad that appeared in the 
10/9/79 issue of the TARTAN. The 
layout was well organized and read well, 
from the headline through the closing 
paragraphs. Use of color is an eye-stopper.
Two members of the TARTAN staff, 
Mike Brzustowicz and Jeff Zaslow won 
honorable mention for their ads.
Bill Kapner of the TARTAN staff 
won third place in the political columns 
category for his article entitled Turmoil 
in Zimbabwe which appeared in the Nov
ember, 1979 issue of Dossier.
Robert Zusman received honorable 
mention for his feature photo which was 
the November 1979 Doosier cover. His
work was termed a good example of how 
a fine photo can set the stage for a good 
graphic design.
In the category of Sports features, hon
orable mention was merited by Perry Col - 
osimo and  deserves recognition for tackl
ing an important, different subject; the use 
of anabolic steroids in an article entitled 
Anabolic steroids: friend or foe of the 
modern athlete? which appeared in the 
11/13/79 issue.
In the Reviews catagory, Dave Kirby 
won second place for his review of Iron 
City Houserockers which was a profes
sional sounding, concise review that per
sonalizes this local group. Honorable 
mention was awarded to Paul Mendler for a 
fine, knowledgeble record review on 
John McLaughlin.
In the final category of General 
Maureen Brennan, took first place for her 
article entitled Were you prepared for 
CMIJ?
The TARTAN hosted the three day 
conference of collegiate journalists which 
featured appearances by George Bush, 
Kara Kennedy and Willie Smith as rep
resentatives of Senator Edward Kennedy 
and various media professionals.
Next year, the PCPA conference will 
be held at Gannon University in Erie, PA 
and the TARTAN will be there to bring 
home more awards.
SUMMER WORK-STUDY 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW 
AVAILABLE IN THE 
FINANCIAL AID 
DEPARTMENT
SEE THE RECEPTIONIST

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING CARNIVAL
Pittsburgh, Pa.-Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity takes a bite of the Big Apple during 
Spring Carnival Weekend, April 17,18 and 
19, highlighting the fun and excitement 
of New York City. Booths, attractions and 
entertainment all take on familiar New 
York City names.
The activity begins at 5 PM on April 17 
with ribbon cutting ceremonies beneath a 
giant 8-f'oot apple. The midway (Manhat
tan), located in the Skibo parking lot 
adjacent to Forbes Avenue, will feature 
10 rides and 29 booths built to look like 
well-known New York sights including; the 
Statue of Liberty, World Trade Center,
Yankee Stadium, Broadway and the Bronx 
Zoo. It will remain open until midnight.
On Friday, midway hours will be noon 
to midnight. A games tournament at the 
intramural field (Shea Stadium) will begin 
at 1:30 PM featuring the Times Square 
ball, Amoeba Races and Lap Games. At
2 PM the CMU lawn will be transformed 
into Greenwich Village with unicyclists, 
clowns, mimes, rollerskaters, musicians 
and sidewalk chalk artists. An evening of 
entertainment begins at 8 PM with a con
cert by Muddy Waters in the gym (Madison 
Square Garden). A Night on the Town 
disco will be held at 9 PM followed by
fireworks at Tech Field (Yankee Stadium) 
at 10 PM.
On Saturday the midway will open 
from noon until 9 PM. Activities will in
clude a giant tug-of-war on the Doherty 
Hall lawn (Brooklyn) at 2 PM and a 3 PM 
Gong Show in the Tent (Broadway). The 
carnival ends with a 9 PM cabaret in the 
tent fearuting the comedy team of Ed
monds and Curly and an awards presenta
tion at 10 PM.
The 1980 Spring Carnival also marks 
the 60-year anniversary for the traditional 
buggy races at CMU. Originally a soap box 
derby, Buggy has evolved into a fullscale engineering and track competition, 
with sleek fiberglass roadsters propelled 
by a muscular push team. Twelve fra
ternities and three independent groups will 
enter buggies in the preliminary competi
tion on Friday, April 18 at 9 AM on the 
one-mile course in Schenley Park. The 
finals will be held Saturday at 9 AM and 
will include three alumni heats, two wo
mens heats and three mens heats. The 
record of the fastest time, 2:17, is held by 
the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity and was set 
in 1978.
H,c qnH mnro nnmtnn cnnnor rnan v/mi rnmw
Muddyplay CMU gym Friday, April 18 at 8 PM. $2 with CMU ID.
Who will inherit buggy crown ?
Note: The Compubookie is a little green gnome who lives under Panther Hollow Bridge 
and who comes out once a year to make comments and predictions on the buggy race. 
BhTy
After two consecutive Sweepstakes victories, Beta has estabished itself as the team 
to beat in 1980. Even the loss of several A-team pushers from a year ago should not pre
vent Beta from echoing last years performance. Look for them to come out burning on 
raceday.
dS Kyddy yjdHy
By taking a gander at the spring freerolls, one might wonder whether anyone can rob 
Pika of the Sweepstakes title. Unless they make some feeble goof and peter out, they 
should turn in a marvelous time. If they hear their carlin, they could put a rich victory 
on ice. Hopefully for the Pikes, a hulking effort will avoid a repeat of last year and the 
sun will finally shine on them.
dHS Kyddy THhTy
The Phi Kaps last year attempted to mow down their competition but couldnt cut 
their way into the top six. Modifications suggested by Lawn Boy could enable them to 
bag a top spot this year. Always sweet rollers, Phi Kap could be the surprise team of 
Sweepstakes this year.
sSLmy NU
High rolling Sigma Nu has come through with another breakthrough in pusher tech
nology chemically treated pushers. If they can somehow find their hills, a very respect
able time should be turned in. Dont skip the Zoo in 1980.
gSy
With what could be the most awesome push team ever assembled, CIA must be con
sidered a favorite once again. They will try to turn things around this year and head 
their buggy in the right direction through the chute. Ruling out any mishaps, however, 
victory might be as good as gold.
ATO
ATO has gone searching through their dumpster again but no hefty breakthroughs 
have resulted. But their strong and rangy push team might be the strongest west of CIA 
on campus. Look for them to squid their way into the top six.
syh
From the smell and smoke curling from their beautiful tent at freeroll, it appears that 
SAE is ready to erupt this year. Only a jughead would think that it is only a dud. But 
seriously, Id be lion if I said SAE will make the top six this year.
dRhDSgTSONs
1. BetaThey have the crown, someone must take it away.
2. Pika AIf things go right, this year could be the Big One.
3. CIACant break the spell of black magic.
4. Pika BPikas depth this year is incredible.
5. ATOOn the strength of their push team.
6. Sigma NuShould float into the finals.
Best of the rest: Phi Kap, SAE, Beta B, Pika C
PERENNIAL FAVORITES
Pi LamOn a magic carpet ride.
DeltsWhat more can you say?
ZBTBring back the bike!
Kappa SigGo Egghead!
Students have already begun to camp out for Carnival.Buggydom revisited
kM d. hhntcwM
Whats fiberglass, about seven feet long, 
and wide enough for one person? Some 
might say a fiberglass coffin. At CMU, its 
a buggy.
From buggys start as bathtubs or 
orange crates on wheels, it has developed 
into a sport which involves designers, 
builders, and athletes, and which comprises 
one of the major events of Spring Carnival.
Each buggy team has a driver, generally 
between 5 and feet tall and weighing 
between 100 and 110 pounds, and five 
pushers, who push the buggy uphill and 
who can run very fast. The driver must 
learn to steer while strapped into a buggy, 
usually headfirst and stomach down, and 
with her face anywhere from 10 inches to 
1 inch off the ground.
Buggy and driver are pushed uphill 
one by the Hill 1 pusher, hill two by the 
Hill 2 pusher, and between hills two and 
three go into freeroll. In freeroll, the buggy 
driver must steer for herself. If the driver
negotiates the curve, and doesnt run into 
Phipps Conservatory or another buggy, she 
is picked up at hill three by the Hill 3 
pusher, at hill four by the Hill 4 pusher, 
and finally by the Hill 5 pusher.
The races are run in heats of three, with 
the best time winning. The best time for 
the course, which is 1.9 km long, is two 
minutes and seventeen seconds. Last years 
top six times were all under two minutes 
and twenty-eight seconds.
Buggies are also judged on design. The 
buggies are rated for overall appearance, 
mechanical workings and innovations by 
judges picked for their knowledge of 
materials and design. Buggies cannot win 
the design trophy unless they are in the top 
half of the contendersthey have to work, 
as well as look nice.
Oh, yeah. If youre trying to figure out 
who is involved in buggy, just look for the 
haggard person who hasnt slept for a 
month and whose QPA is in the negative 
range.
N.Y. theme for booths
As many students thoughts turn to love 
this spring, the thoughts of Greeks and 
other organizations turn to booths, in hopes 
of capturing a trophy at Spring Carnival, 
April 18 and 19.
Booth construction this year will be 
centered around the theme of New York, 
and the midway will represent such aspects 
of New York as Radio City Music Hall, 
Wall Street, Central Park, The Empire 
State Building and The Bronx Zoo. The ob
ject of each booth is to present an attrac
tive eye-catching design, with an interes
ting game and appropriate prizes.
Construction involves weeks of ham
mering nails and painting panels. The 
sororities and campus organizations build
their booths in the basement of Morewood 
while the fraternities constuct theirs in 
their houses.
Starting Monday, booths began to 
appear on the midway (Skibo parking lot) 
where final constuction and assembly 
takes place. Usually shifts of 4 people from 
the organization and the campus police 
patrol this area around the clock to insure 
against vandalism or total destruction.
Each organization is judged on how well 
their theme is represented, the feasability 
of their game and the appropriateness of 
their prizes. Each group is responsible for 
a T-shirt design which is judged on attrac
tiveness and color.

---------------------------------------------------

RINGCARNIVALSPRINGCARNIVALSPRl
by Gore Lick
Its Friday night in New York City. 
You dont get to the Big Apple that often. 
In fact, this is only your second time, and 
the first time, you were only three and you 
stayed with your Aunt Rose in Woodmere. 
Still, you dont want to go the tourist 
route. Thousands of tourists come to 
The City every day, but you want to look 
like one of the millions that live there.
So what do you do? You could go to 
the theater, but tickets for Sweeny Todd 
go for about $30 and who wants to see 
Mummenschanz? You could go to a disco, 
but you risk being socially humiliated 
when youre not invited in, and there is 
always the danger of slipping on a 
Quaalude and breaking your Jordache. You 
could ride the subway in a frivolous 
attempt to get in the New York Times, but 
thats just stupid.
There is a solution. New York is full of 
nightclubs and coffeehouses that cater to 
almost everyones taste, from the Lady 
from Dubuque to the Pikesville Princess. 
Jane Giamporcaro, the Spring 
Carnival Entertainment Chairperson has 
brought together the various types of night 
spots under one roof for the New York 
Cabaret, Saturday night at 9 PM in the 
tent.
From the relaxing, folk style of Green
wich Village coffeehouses come Chris 
OConnor and Kirk Morrison who will 
be performing popular folk music with 
a taste of Irish. (Sounds like a Maxwell 
Houses International Coffee, no?)
II
Subways
Student Dormitory Council
The freewheeling style of such popular 
nightclubs as Dangerfelds and Catch 
a Rising Star will be replicated by The 
Beam Team, Kirk Ewalt, Michael Cook, 
Steve Levy and Chris Zito. These alumni 
of CMUs Studio Theater will offer a broad 
range of entertainment, ranging from 
comedy to punk rock. Anything can 
happen with The Beam Team.
Singer Michael Conner, who has graced 
Pittsburghs growing Footlight Dinner 
Theater, as well as various CMU stages, will 
represent a more classy New York atmos
phere. Conners will be offering a polished 
jazz repertoire, the kind found in those 
New York clubs that no one knows 
about.
Robbin Slade, Alan Harp and Maxine 
Lapiduss, who absolutely astounded a 
CMU coffeehouse audience last Saturday 
night with a smooth, high-energy blend of 
comedy and popular music will present 
an encore presentation at the New York 
Cabaret.
The hosts for the evening are Chicago 
comedians, Edmonds and Curly, who will 
be offering their own popular comedy 
material.
r=c
The Blackout
Delta Upsilon
The Statue of Liberty
Phi Kappa Thta
World Trade Center, King KongAlpha Tau Omga
Radio City Music HallKappa Alpha Thta
Con Edison
Delta Tau Delta
If you were vacationing in New York, 
or even if you were a New York native, 
you would have to choose between one of 
the various types of entertainment night 
spots: You cant go to Greenwich Village 
and to an improvisational comedy club 
and to a jazz nightclub, but you can this 
Saturday night at 9 PM in the tent. You 
might also run into an expensive evening in 
New York City: Here you can do it for 
free.
At least now you can go home and 
really have something to talk about.
VV * ,, ,%"/ ' ft* MmMt 
- 1
II
im 
.. .. ' : 7
.'** ; - ' , z.- } *
- : 
I
I
I
iilii
v. <-- 
'  -  / .. ; .. 
I

y y n," -vj.
A Mission
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship
Harlem Globetrotters 
Spirit
 A.O. Schwartz
Kappa Kappa Gamma
United NationsBeta Theta Pi
The New York TimesTartan
WRCT
WYORKNEWYORKNEWYORKNEWYORK

---------------------------------------------------

GC ARNI V ALSPRIN GC ARNI VALSPRIN
kM LtiR jnrk
What trip to New York City would be 
complete without a trip to Greenwich 
Village? Lots of them. Nevertheless, the 
Village does have its certain charm; ir
regular coffeehouses, chic clothing stores 
and outrageous characters that flock to this 
Jlittle piece of the city. One of the more 
memorable and pleasing aspects of Green
wich Village, however, are the countless 
street performers that take to the streets 
search of recognition or money, or both.
'viYWtS'  y.'*, <\
- 
.7'
-I ji-j
I
li
On Friday afternoon, from 2 to 5 PM 
on the cut, Spring Carnival Entertainment 
Chairperson Jane Giamporcaro will 
attempt to bring a little bit of Greenwich 
Village to CMU. Giamporcaro has as
sembled a large, diverse assortment of 
musicians and artists to entertain restless, 
afternoon strollers.
Pam McKay, a freshman music major, 
will juggle while riding on a unicycle, Brian 
Ditchison and Ken Miller will play frisbee 
on roller skates and Chris Rebmann, a 
sohpomore drama major will perform 
mime.
Clyde Greer, a folk musician reminis
cent of Bob Dylan will play throughout 
the afternoon as will the guitar team of 
Michael Fox and Mike Frazier. In the 
spontaneous, informal tradition of Green
wich Village, these musicians may combine
talents at some time in the afternoon 
for an impromptu jamming session. Dave 
Caplan, a strolling violinist, completes the 
musical entertainment.
Mary Rehak will take the role of a 
Village chalk artist Friday afternoon: 
Watch her work come to life on the spot.
If youve never been to Greenwich 
Village or if youve been there and seen 
street performers ushered along by the 
police, stroll down the cut on Friday 
afternoon. Theyre there for your pleasure.
fr
i
I
mmi
wim
m m
Big AppleCarnegie Involvement
Brooklyn Bridge
Kappa Sigma
Central Park
" ' '   7?ir;..: V '  :  '  ,
New York Yankees
Baseball Club
WmmNew York Stock Exchange
Delta Gamma
I
Detta Gamma
feoU :i: . . .    ; > . > . . ' '
,
Epsilon
i] 
ay
Epsilon
I
Nitan Opera
of New York |V d.n777^,77''"' -:77 7 7:-7 7 7V7- 77777, "t h hhh ingsneuyNew York Police Station
Computer Club
Studio 54Student Alumni Relation Council
Taxis
ThetaXi
Saturday Night LiveDetta Delta Delta
Empire State Building
Zeta Beta Tau
New York Mets
Swim Team
by Mignon Rabineau
From George Gees Make Believe Ball
room orchestra to the Bearded Bozo and 
his Nose Flute Band, this years Gong 
Show will be one of the most entertaining 
in years. Barber Shop quartets and Greek 
Choruses will fill your ears with sounds at 
the very least, and several dance acts will 
fill your eyes. Last years winners, the 
Macho Men will have their memorable 
performance challenged by the Matza 
men and the internationally acclaimed 
dance team The Bang Gang. These ex 
macho members of The Bang Gang 
will try to make this the third year in a row 
that a disco dance team has won the Gong 
Show. They will, however, have some stiff 
competition: For who could forget the 
Bag Ladies?
The emcees for this years show, back 
by popular demand, are WRCTs infamous 
comedy team, Sloppy Joe and Devereaux. The deviate duo will entertain 
you with their own brand of humor in be
tween the other semi-professional acts.
Who will win? George Gees nineteen 
piece big band? The Bang Gangs disco 
dancing? Or perhaps a mystery act? To 
find out, dont miss the action in the SDC 
tent this Saturday, April 19, beginning at 
3:00. Anyone may sign up to do an act 
until an hour before the show.
For information or to sign up to per
form, call Sloppy Joe and Devereaux at 
x2883 and leave a message with the WRCT 
employee.
i
iE WY ORKNE W Y ORKNE W Y ORKNE W Y

---------------------------------------------------

*
*
*
**
**
*
#
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
#
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
#*
#
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
4 VI MV VI IMMECCr IVI I THE FIRST I III
THURSDAY. APRIL 17
5:00 RUSH HOUR IN MANHATTAN
Opening Ceremonies Rain date: 5:00 in the Tent 
Rush Hour Relays 
Ribbon Cutting 
Jazz Ensemble 
Manhattan Opens Midway
8:00 Scotch 'n Soda presents
"KIJE" at Carnegie Music Hall Skibo Ballroom
9:00 SDC Square Dance on Broadway Tent
12:00 Manhattan Closes Midway *
FRIDAY, APRIL 18
9:00 RUSH HOUR
Sweepstakes in Central Park Tech Street
11:00 Buggy Design Competition
at Madison Square Garden Gym
12:00 Lunch Hour
Manhattan Opens Midway
ISO Fair on Broadway Tent
Earth Day Celebration at Carnegie Institute
1:00 Arts and Crafts Fair at Museum of Modern Art
1:30 The New Games at Shea Stadium IM Field
Times Square Ball, People Pass, Amoeba Race, 
The Lap Game and much more
9:00 NIGHT ON THE TOWN
SDC Disco with DJ on BroadwayTent
10:00 Fireworks at Yankee Stadium Tech Field 
Rain date: Saturday at 10:00 
AB Movie "On the Town 
at the Ziegfeld Theater DH 2210
12:00 Manhattan Closes Midway
SATURDAY, APRIL 19
9:00 RUSH HOUR
Sweepstakes Finals in Central Park Tech Street
12:00 LUNCH HOUR
Manhattan Opens Midway
Earth Day Celebration at Carnegie Institute
Arts and Crafts Fair at Museum of Modern Art
1:00 Men's Track with Theil, John Carroll 
at Yankee Stadium Tech Field 
Men's Tennis with Hiram at Forest Hills Tennis Courts
2:00 Greenwich Village Entertainment Cut
Giant Tug-of-War in Brooklyn Doherty Lawn
3:00COFFEE BREAK
Gong Show on BroadwayTent
2:00 Megaskates in Greenwich Village 
presented by AB Lectures
Cut
2:00 Greenwich Village Entertainment Cut
Unicyclist, Clowns, Mime, Rollerskaters, 
Musicians, Sidewalk Chalk Artist, etc.
2:30 SARC's 10K Race in Central Park Schen/ey Park
6:00 The Jazz Group on Broadway 
AB Movie "On the Town" 
at the Ziegfeld Theater DH2210
8:00 AB Concert MUDDY WATERS and MIKE CROSS 
at Madison Square Garden Gym 
Scotch 'n Soda presents 
"KIJE" at Carnegie Music Hall Ballroom 
AB Movie "On the Town" 
at the Ziegfeld Theater DH 2210
8:00 Scotch 'n Soda presents
"KIJE" at Carnegie Music Hall Ballroom 
Manhattan Closes Midway
9:00 NIGHT ON THE TOWN
Cabaret on Broadway Tent 
Edmonds and Curly emcee with four student acts 
t Awards on Broadway 10:00 Outside the Tent
SUNDAY, APRIL 20
7:00City of Champions Sports Night 
at Madison Square Garden Gym 
Spring Fling sponsored by H8-SS SAC 
on the Gateway Party Liner
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
#
*
*
&
*
#
#
*
*
#
#
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
#
*
#
*
*
#
#
#
*
*
*
*
#
*
*
*
*

---------------------------------------------------

entertainment
Kije: Scotch and Soda show 'needs tightened'
by Melody Mazzie and Doug Kirsop
When one is continually absorbing the 
high caliber dramatics that gives CMU such 
a fine reputation in the Fine Arts area, it 
is difficult to see an amateur production 
without being overly critical. The Scotch 
n Soda Boards presentation of Kije can
not be reviewed on the same level as the 
other productions that have entertained 
CMU audiences this year.
The cast of Kije are non-drama, nonmusic students who are simply out to have 
fun. In this light, they are to be commend
ed for their enthusiasm and dedication - 
especially at a time when finals are rolling 
around and the pressures are mounting. 
They have taken time out of their 
schedules to put together a less-thanpolished, but well-meaning show that is 
strictly meant to be viewed as a light
hearted bit of entertainment.
Kije is set in the land of Wuz, a 
much akin to Id, in the Wizard of Id comic 
strip. The plot centers around the kings 
decision to have his daughter married and 
the problem of finding a suitable courtier. 
The problem is heightened when the 
princess falls in love with the imaginary 
hero of the minstrels ballads  i.e. Kije
The script of Kije 
itself has a lot 
of potential
The singing and choreography of Kije 
leave a lot to be desired, but Christine 
Garrity, who plays the princess, has a 
voice which proves the exception to the 
rule. John Collard also has a potentially 
good voice. His role as the villainous 
Larson E. Quivocator is performed with 
unceasing virility. One might question, 
however, why is he wearing a modern suitMark Simens and Christine Garrity get ready to live happily ever after in the Land of Wuz.
in medevial times. Perhaps it is to give him 
something of a gangster-like appearance. 
Judi Hoffman puts in a performance as the 
wizards wife that is loaded with spunk and 
humor, although the appropriateness of her 
costume is also questionable.
The music was composed for a full pit or
chestra, and the lack of a string section is 
obvious. The clever lyrics deserve better 
melodies. Next weekend the music should 
be better, however, since three of the or
chestras pieces were recieved virtually 
moments before opening^___________
Individual songs ... 
dragged on to 
unnecessary 
lengths
The set design for Kije is obviously the 
result of a lot of work. Consisting of castle 
walls interspersed with balconies, it is like
ly the most effective aspect of the produc
tion.
The script of Kije itself has a lot of 
potential. Scott Mcgregor wrote a wonder
fully witty play. Individual songs,however, 
dragged on to unnecessary lengfyts. Our 
King is a Fink, for example, lasjts a good 
fifteen minutes when seven minutes would 
certainly have been adequate.
The play is enlivened by the special effects 
of Act Three. A Little bit of magic, per
formed by the wizard, Paul Allesandro, con
tains several well-executed magic tricks, 
= and moved smoothly and quickly. A notable 
| effect has the eouldron stirring itself in 
o time to his legerdemain.
| Kije opened last Thursday night and 
 will continue to run through: Carnival 
 weekend. Tickets are S2.50, and curtain 
B time is 8:00 PM.. The musical runs some 
a three hours long, so be prepared to just sit 
back and enjoy the laughs
PPT's MacBeth is a fresh,compelling production
by Anne Lux
Shakespeares Macbeth marks the end of 
Pittsburgh Public Theaters 1979-1980 
season, and a triumphant end it is. PPTs 
production does a commendable job of 
bringing the famous tragedy to life.
Almost everyone is familiar with the 
story of the ambitious Macbeth and his 
fiend-like lady who murder the king and 
take over the throne of Scotland. For those 
of you whose exposure to the play has 
been strictly literary, here is your oppor
tunity to see dramatized the royal splendor 
of Ninth Century Scotland. For those 
the Weird Sisters and the struggles with 
ambition and insanity of Macbeth and 
Lady Macbeth.
PPT makes several notable moderniza
tions of the original play, adding clarity to 
a complicated plot. Some minor characters 
have been eliminated, the original twentyeight scenes cut to twenty-one and placed 
mto two acts instead of Shakespeares 
usual five. The new division of the acts 
makes the action flow more smoothly and 
makes the play more suitable for viewing 
by a modern audience.
There have also been several original 
additions. Before the actual play begins 
Robert Doran, who plays Fleance, appears 
and explains that in the time of Macbeth, 
there was no inherited succession to the 
Scottish throne. Doran again appears in an
unwritten scene at the end of the play 
which completely changes the tone and 
meaning of the plays ending.
In the original version of Shakespeares 
play, the show ends on a positive note 
when Malcolm, the son of the murdered 
King Duncan, regains the throne and gives 
a speech signifying that the violence has 
ended and Scotland is once more at peace. 
In PPTs production, however, Fleance 
appears after the end of that scene, bran
dishing his sword in an omen that promises 
to fulfill the prophesy made by the witches 
to Fleances father, Banquo. The Weird 
Sisters promised Banquo that his children 
would be kings, but this prophesy is never 
fulfilled in the play itself. It is generally 
accepted that this prediction was added 
for the benefit of King James 1, benefactor 
to Shakespeare's theatrical company and a 
descendant of Banquo.
The play is well performed by a more 
than competent cast. In the role of Macbeth 
is Tom Atkins, best known for his portray
al of Lieutenant Alex Diehl on The Rock
ford Files. Atkins opening night per
formance improved as his character deep
ened; at first, Shakespeares rich language 
seemed to catch in his throat. However, he 
handled the development of a difficult 
character with admirable success. A Pitts
burgh native and a graduate of Duquesne 
University, he can currently be seen in 
the movie, The Fog.
Keith Fowler as Macduff a Iso gave a con
vincing performance, and was particularly 
moving when he mourned the slaughter of 
his wife and children. Unfortunately, 
though, the fight scene between Macduff 
and Macbeth was inept, poorly executed 
and quickly tedious, marring an otherwise 
outstanding production. j
Carnegie-Mellon is well presented in this 
production. Alumnus Christopher McHale 
played the role of Banquo sympathetically, 
and makes a great ghost. He did, however, 
seem a bit young to be the father of a son 
the age of Fleance. In the role of Malcolm 
is Jon Hayden, a current student in the 
drama department. Hayden gave an excel
lent performance that proves the reputa
tion of CMUs Drama Department.
Cletus Anderson, head of theater design 
here, designed the scenery and costumes 
for Macbeth. Though the scenery, which 
was kept to a minimum, is clever, I must 
admit to being less than impressed by 
Andersons costumes, particularly those 
worn by the male members of the cast. The 
dark quilted tunics, especially when 
coupled with the hoods on the guards, 
make them all look more like skiers than 
soldiers and noblemen.
*  . I
All in all, Macbeth is a production of 
which Pittsburgh Public Theater can well 
be proud. Its running until May 18 at the 
Allegheny Theater on the North Side; see 
it if you possibly can. Ticket information 
is available by calling 323-1900.
Ibsen closes CMU seasori
CMUs Drama Department will present 
Henrik Ibsens The iMdy From the Sea, 
April 17 to 26 in Kresge Theatre on 
campus.
Set in a small town in Norway during 
the 1890s, The Lady From the Sea stars 
Catherine Haun as Ellida Wangel, a wife 
who dreams of her former lover and feels 
trapped in her marriage. The drama ex
plores ideas of freedom, choice and respon
sibility.
Graduate playwrighting student Neil A. 
Ward adapted the play throughout produc
tion, giving student actors the experience
of handling script revisions during rehearsal.
Also in the cast are: Gary Boyer, Victor 
Stein, Lori Herbsion, Patricia'McClenahan, 
Wendy Hall, Eric Grosshans knd Melcourt 
P. Poux, Jr.
Elisabeth Orion is directing the play 
which takes place on a raked, aproned 
stage designed by Bobby $erg. Costume 
design is by Catherine F. N^rgren; lighting 
by Jeanne Oster.
Curtain times are 8:2Q PM, Monday 
through Saturday, with a Saturday matinee 
at 2. Tickets can be obtairjed at the CMU 
Drama Box office with a CMU i.d.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN - April 15,1980
Amowitz, Epstein and Herman at Gallery: 'Out of this world'
kM yRx gzVjktwbkn
One of the most homogeneous shows 
presented this semester at the Forbes 
Street Gallery was last weeks exhibition 
kM Amowitz, Epstein and Herman. While 
each artist had distinctly different styles 
and preferences for mediums, there was an 
underlying connection between all their 
works: this was each artists ability to
communicate and realistically present their 
imagined little worlds within worlds.
Laurel Herman is the most explicit 
creator of these microcosms, and her 
pieces in particular give the show an illu
strative and storytelling sense. Using 
mainly pen and ink with touches of water - 
colors, she creates a series of characters 
who become involved in small dramas 
reflective of essentially whatever the view
er decides. Max is one of her more active 
characters, meeting in various drawings; 
Mimi, Irma, Collette and Paulette, the 
Dancing Twins, a lady smoker, and the 
Mystery Lady. Then he becomes Up to 
No Good, and is finally Wanted by the 
Police! Within these pieces, Max can 
range from a strange, fantasy beastie to a 
suspicious^ looking Frenchman hiding in a 
chorus line.
Like all of Hermans work, the Max 
drawings are intricately designed and are 
often accompanied by small words in the 
background. These phrases help to tell the 
story of the drawing as well as attract one 
to closely examine the work. For some 
works, however, words are not necessary; 
Valentine is a pen and ink of a small bird
straining to deliver a big heart (the birds 
expression is perfect!), and Dancing Bear 
needs nothing beyond the title to come 
across.
Aside from the worlds within worlds, 
Herman has done a lot of work in calli
graphy, and has done it quite well, as her 
posters for Italic, Geography of a Horse 
Dream and her own Ellis Gallery prove. 
She also combines ideas of graphic design 
with her calligraphy and drawing talent on 
posters for The Architecture Follies, 
her Forbes Street Gallery show, and 
Sauer Hour. In the Sauer Hour legs 
poster, and in many of her other pieces, 
she places a little self-portrait, attempting 
to involve herself with the worlds she 
creates.
Andy Epstein, like Herman, is prolific 
in having his work published as posters and 
drawings for the TARTAN. Anything that 
incorporates people into visions of flight or 
machinery is probably his, provided its 
done well. In fact, Epstein can be best de
scribed as da Vinci with a ballpoint. He, 
too, has little worlds of fantasy, however 
he puts a very technical edge on his draw
ings and paintings. Most of his work re
flects an intense desire to escape, and 
flight is his key. His colorful and fanciful 
self-portrait is a bright watercolor of him 
soaring above a world made up of brushes 
and paints, leaving a trail of colors back to 
the brush that painted this piece.
Other pieces like Dream Flight, his 
Rent-a-Tech poster, and assorted untitled 
sketches show da Vinci-like contraptions
Ax and Johanos star at PSO
by Timothy Le Van
Emanual Ax, pianist, blessed Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra audiences with his 
superb playing of the Chopin Piano Con
certo No. 2 in F minor during last week
ends concert series.
The Concerto, a well-known repertory 
piano work, was used by Mr. Ax as a veh
icle to display his interpretive and musi
cal talents. The first and last movements 
were very well played and showed Mr. Axs 
great emotional prowess in playing Chopin. 
Each movement had its own bright, crisp 
clarity.
The second movement (Larghetto), one 
of the most beautiful, slow expressive 
movements, was played with supreme 
romantic interpretation. The movements 
florid passages and grand melodies were 
handled with great musical sensitivity.
Symphony No. 9 in C major (The 
Great) by Schubert ended the program. 
The large work was conducted very well 
by Donald Johanos. Mr. Johanos know
ledge of the symphony helped to bring 
unity to each movement, and an overall 
form to the entire symphony.
Because of the length of this symphony, 
performances often tend to drag and seem 
endless; but such was not the case with this 
performance.
Donald Johanos, associate conductor of 
the PSO since 1970, will leave his post at 
the end of this season to devote full timeNto his new duties as Music Director of the 
Honolulu Symphony and Artistic Director 
of the Hawaii Opera Theatre. Last week
ends concert series marked the final 
subscription concert series to be conducted 
by Mr. Johanos.
NUCLEAR POWER
Prospective college graduates with degrees in 
mathematics, physics, engineering or a related field 
may be qualified to join us for training as nuclear 
engineers. Our rigorous training program, designed 
by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, qualifies candidctes to supervise the operation of one of our many 
reactor plants around the world. We offer outstanding 
personal and professional growth opportunity with 
commensurate compensation along with an attractive 
benefit package. Federal regulations require ap
plicants possess U.S. citizenship and under 28 years of 
age. Interviews will be conducted soon in he Tri-State 
area. For consideration, send resume and college 
transcripts to Mr. Dave Leonard, 1000 Liberty Avenue, 
Suite 711, Pittsburgh, PA 15222.
being used by people in attempts to fly. 
Levitation is another recurring theme, 
appearing in such thinking pieces as,The 
Floater, Floaters and sketches. Then 
there is the intellectual climax of all that, 
Problems of Intraskullar Flight.
Lisa Amowitz also has had published 
works in the TARTAN, and FOLIO, and 
she created the poster iox And Miss Rear
don Drinks a Little. Unfortunately, these 
do not show her true talent, which lies in 
her use of color. Pieces of Mind, The 
Bakery, The Passionate Vampires and 
The Girl With the Golden Mask all have 
a surrealistic effect, due not as much to her 
forms as to the colors she uses. The bizzare colors for common things, undetailed 
and somewhat fuzzy, create an atmos
phere similar to the type that Hermans 
little worlds need to survive in, and one 
that Epsteins floaters and flyers need as 
well.
Ih pen and ink, Amowitz also tells a 
story, be it a retelling of All's Quiet on the 
Western Front as her poster for Journeys 
End does, or Jack and the Giant Peach, as 
her great Peach does.
Officially illustrators, these three artists J 
prefer to be thought of as communica
tors, each with extensive artistic interests 
beyond whatever major they have chosen. 
Art often imitates life, and in some 
peoples eyes, art is life, but these artists 
have come quite close to creating life;lives 
that are imaginative and fantastic, and well 
worth looking at.
Versatile Rondstadt at Arena
by Ted Smits
Linda Ronstadt has often been cham
pioned by numerous radio stations as the 
Queen of the female pop stars, and a few 
years back she looked destined to become 
the perfect easy listening artist. Luckily, 
things have not turned out as such. Her 
latest album Mad Love is firmly based in 
rock and roll, drawing much of its material 
from many new wave composers. Her 
recent show at the Civic Arena clearly 
showed the influence of todays music 
on Ronstadts performance. Mixing loud, 
energetic rock songs from her new album 
with a montage of past hits, she managed 
to put on an exciting, enjoyable show.
The first number was Mad Love; a 
stong bass line and heavy drumming 
dominated this and the next two songs, 
Cost of Love and Elvis Costellos Party 
Girl. The all out rock style of the first 
three songs surprised the crowd, with 
about half favoring the change anti the 
others looking for a more subdued Linda.
Her fourth song, Its So Easy clearly 
showed that Linda has not lost any of her 
old talents.
Thoughout the show, her voice remained
strong and the back up band (over quali
fied if anything), provided tight, com
plementary support of her lush and 
booming vocals. After some more mellow, 
country and western style songs such as 
Willing, Lookout For My Love and 
Blue Bayou, Ronstadt rocked into yet 
another Elvis Costello song, Girl Talk.
From there the show cruised along until,
after a powerful run through of Silver 
Threads and Golden Needles, Ronstadt 
left the stage and backup vocalist Wendy 
Wald man sang two of her own compo
sitions. From then on -it was greatest hits 
time. Poor, Poor Pitiful Me, Youre 
No Good, Living In The USA, I 
Dont Want To Make You, and the classic 
Heatwave' ended the show'. The final 
solo encore of Desperado was all that 
was needed to finish the evening.
Trower to play Stanley
by Alan Spero
Guitarist Robin Trower, along with his 
band, James Dewar (bass and vocal) and 
Bill Lordan (drums), will be blistering into 
the Stanley Theatre tomorrow night, 
April 16, at 7:30 PM. Trower are touring 
in support of their new album, Victims of 
the Fury.
Victims of the Fury marks Trowers 
return to the Hendrix-style acid rock 
formula that rocketted Trower to fame 
with their earlier album, Bridge of Sighs.
Robin Trower is being presented at the 
Stanley Theatre, by Danny Kreske Enter
prises. Tickets are on sale at the Stanley 
Theatre box office, all National Record 
Marts, and Kaufmanns downtown.
CARNEGIE-MELLON WOMEN'S CLAN 
Scholarship Awards
Interviewing: Tues., April 22 and Sat., April 26 
Applications: Available in Financial Aid Office 
Warner Hall 210 
Deadline for submission: Mon., April 21 
Eligibility Requirements:
1) Must be a junior female during 1979-80 
school year. Award will be applied to 
September tuition of senior year
2) Must be in upper 1 /4 of class
3) Should participate in a campus activity
4) Must have a letter of recommendation from 
advisor or other faculty member.
5) Financial need will be taken into consideration.
6) Must have filled out a 1980-81 Financial Aid 
Form or have a 1979-80 FAF on file in Financial 
Aid Office

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1980 - TARTAN - Page 19
o be or not to bt
involved with GOODYEAR AEROSPACE 
the 1 with the blimps... /
Opportunities for you now 
to bp involved with:
* Digital Technology (Parallel 
Processors)
* Correllation Guidance Systems 
(Radar, Optical, Infrared)
* Flight Simulators
* Aircraft Wheels and Brakes
if you are about to be endowed 
with an EE, ME, or ComSci degree
If you want to hf at the state-of 
the-art with a leader in the 
aerospace industry
Your resume it to be sent to:
E. i Searle
Goodyear Aerospace Corporation 
( ' Akron, Ohio 44315
An Equal Opportunity Employer
ITTSTA
Muddy Waters' latest album is a blues classic
kM T. slnob
A collection of (in his own words) my 
most exciting and enduring songs, Muddy 
Mississippi Waters Live is a stunning 
record of the work of one of the greatest 
blues guitarists and singers performing 
today. Probably his finest album besides 
Hard Again, the new disc is a tribute to 
both Muddy and the musical style known 
as the blues.
Side one opens with an excellent 
version of his classic Mannish Boy. 
More than any other song, this tune 
epitomizes Muddys Mississippi Delta Blues 
vocal style. As usual, Muddys gruff, 
rumbling lyrics are almost unintelligible 
but the meaning is clearly there. Like the 
rest of the album, this song as a tense, 
high energy feeling that pervades much of 
his work. It was this particular quality 
in Waters music that influenced the Stones 
and Clapton as much as his guitar riffs did.
Shes Nineteen Years Old and Nine 
Below Zero explore the endless complex
ities of male-female relationships in the 
traditional blues way. Waters guitar work 
is somewhat subdued on these tunes but 
the skill and experience of his backup 
musicians provide strong support for his 
booming vocals. Streamline Woman 
closes out the side with a bang: probably 
the finest cut on the album, it is a perfect 
mixture of powerful electric blues and 
Muddys vocals. Written in 1978, this song 
certainly shows that Muddy is getting' 
better as he gets older.
In Howling Wolf, Muddy reveals 
his views on life; the views of a 65 year 
old musician with a new 25 year old 
wife should not be hard to imagine. Baby 
Please Dont Go and Deep Down in 
Florida feature fierce guitar work and 
driving rock rhythms. Both songs are fine 
examples of Waters ventures into the rock 
spectrum.
Lightning fast guitarist Johnny Winter 
produced and played on much of this 
album. His recent work with Waters has
helped change the direction of Muddys 
music. Waters now strives to create a mix
ture of both rock and blues that features 
the best of both forms. For the last fifteen 
years or so Waters has been playing with 
most of the musicians he gathered for this 
album. The piano playing of Pine Top
Perkins, the drumming of Willie Big Eyes
Smith, and the guitar leads of Bob Margolin ago. He shouldnt be missed.Changeling collapses
have consistently contributed to the per
formances of Muddy Waters.
This Friday, Muddy Waters will appear 
at CMU with essentially the same band 
that plays on this album. Muddy is one of 
the few original rock and roll greats still 
performing as well as he did twenty years
CMU Juried Art Show opens
Opening tonight at the Forbes Street 
Gallery, is the Fourth Annual Juried 
Art Show. This show consists of sixteen 
selected works out of one-hundred and 
twenty submitted by Carnegie-Mellon art 
students. The works were judged by 
Dorothea Rockburne, an artist from New 
York City.
Commenting on the low number of 
works she chose as compared to the num
ber of pieces selected by artists in previous 
years, Ms. Rockburne simply stated, It 
doesnt mean the other work is not meritus, these were the ones I responded to. 
Later she added that the chosen ones were 
good representatives of the work submit
ted.
Some of the featured pieces are a tapes
try called Irregular Ends by awardwinning Bruce Dempsey, Suck It Up, 
Then Throw The Bag Away a sexually 
explicit piece by Leah Bankanic, Bob 
Kalkas wooden structure This Time 
Around, Susan Benns multi-media and 
three-dimensional Metranome and one 
of Bob Kileys charcoal figure studies.
The pieces range from abstract oils to 
pastel portraits to wooden, three-D struc
tures, but most of the work leans toward 
abstraction. Despite the relatively few 
number of artists in this type of show, it 
is an oppurtunity to get a reasonable over
view of the Arts at CMU.
The Gallery is open Tuesday through 
Sunday 12:30 to 4:30, and Tuesday 
through Thursday evenings 7:00 to 9:00.
by Tennyson BVia well
There is definate craze lingering on in 
the horrifying side of cinema: Some seem
ingly innocent child gets a funny look in 
his eyes and its a sorry situation for any
one who crosses him. The Exorcist, The 
Omen, The Godsend, and now The Change
ling are cases in point. Though The 
Changeling is not quite the archetype of 
this trend, it follows the basic premises.
In this particualr fear-flick, the ghost 
of a young crippled boy cannot find rest 
until he reveals the murder and chicanery 
that lost him his life and affluent inheri
tance some years before. Since his handi
cap makes him a poor prodigy for his 
familys money to mold, his father gives 
him an unsuccessful lesson in underwater 
breathing. With this action, a body ridding 
and an inconspicuous trip to the adoption 
agency, no one should know the differ
ence. But a childs spirit never forgets 
and when a music teacher (George C. 
Scott) rents the infamously haunted man
sion, the child lets him experience the dist
urbance of his indignant soul.
Solid start; imaginative and promising, 
but painfully unproducing. The Change
ling falls miserabley short of its early potential. Never has the last quarter of a 
picture so vilified its own preceding bril
liance. The writers (William Gray, Diana 
Maddox and Russell Hunter) were ab
ducted, as so many have been lately, by 
the decieving attraction of a spectacular 
finale. Finales are fine, but only if filled 
with the same thought provoking and in 
telligible occurrences that led up to them.
The script is clearly the area of fault 
here, since the direction (by Peter Madak) 
of what WAS written is an enthralling and 
stylish example in creative gumption 
Not all is handled well, but the cameras 
mobility, along with the sudden focus 
changes from calm to calamity, are superaltive. Theres a seance sequence 
that is absolutely hypnotic.
As for perfomances, George C. Scott 
pulls his weight adequately enough yet this 
is far from an actors movie. Melvyn Doug 
las, as the imposter-heir, does what he can 
with a role made ineffable by its contrived 
nature.
The Changeling would have been a 
strongly successful eneterprise if only the 
acute instincts ostensible in most facets of 
the film were not betrayed by an unworthy 
plot line.
Are you a night owl?
Cant sleep nights?
Join the happy group of people at the TARTAN!!
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
EXKCmiMS
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
II00
Mon.Tue*. Wed. - 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
NO
APPOINTMENTS

---------------------------------------------------

AB Concerts, Coffeehouse, 
& Student Dorm Council 
presents:
\SITING OIRNIl/IL CONCERT '8S featuring
Carnegie-Mellon Gym
Friday 
April 18

Admission w/CMU id: $2.00
Dorm Residents: $1.80
General Public: $3.00
with special guest Mike Cross
Tickets on sale at:
CMU Pitt Duqnesne Heads Together

---------------------------------------------------

________sports
Pika and Beta are favorites for Sweepstakes '80
kM DRccM dtboFfkV
With only three days left until Spring 
Carnival, everyone is making their last 
minute adjustments in preparation for the
1980 Buggy Sweepstakes. After watching 
the past few weekends of free roll, the 
times are so good already that it looks like 
we could have a new course record this 
year. I spoke to the buggy chairmen of 
all participating organizations to get an 
inside view of whats to be expected on 
Friday morning. Heres what they had 
to say.
Beta Theta Pi, winner of two consecu
tive buggy titles, is extremely optimistic 
and they feel that their A buggy, Echo, 
will make it three in a row. Beta boasts an 
excellent push team this year. They lost 
their hill 2 and 3 pushers from last year, 
but a freshman sensation on hill 4 is ex
pected to pick up the load. Beta is once 
again a favorite; look for them to finish 
high on Saturday.
Another team which is perennially 
among the top finishers is Pi Kappa Alpha. 
They too are optimistic as can be expected 
after clocking some amazing times in last 
weekends free roll. They basically have the 
same push teams as last year and, if you re
member, Pika sent two buggies to the finals 
a year ago and they hope to do so again.
Sigma Nu says that their chances are as 
good as usual, predicting a finish in the top 
six once again. They have the same push 
team as last year except for one person.
Theyve been putting ESP through a lot of 
testing and feel its ready to roll again. Oh, 
and dont forget, Rat is back.
Over at Alpha Tau Omega, they feel 
their strong point as usual is their explo
sive push team. It was the push team last 
year that carried ATO to a fifth place 
finish and a few changes have been made to 
that push team to strengthen it even more. 
Any improvement on the free roll should 
improve their place of finish from last year.
Phi Kappa Theta feels they have a much 
better chance than last year, mainly be
cause they used the wrong buggy for A 
team a year ago. They claim, Phi Kap will 
be in the top 6.
After a few disappointing years. Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon is hoping for a top 6 finish. 
They feel the push team is there but it will 
be the highly improved roll that will do it.
CIA, a top 6 finisher from last year, has 
high hopes for this year. They have an exHere are two of the final practice runs in preparation for Fridays Sweepstakes.
i.-;
liflii 
SB
cellent push team including two pushers 
returning from last year. They predict a 
top three finish.
Delta Tau Delta has the best chance of 
winning that theyve had in the last five 
years. They are using their same buggy as 
last year, Cyclone, with a few revisions 
made. They too predict to make the finals.
Fringe feels their chances have improved 
from last year. It will once again be the 
Flying Buttress rolling for Fringe but their 
best push team ever should be the 
driving force.
Pi Lambda Phi built a new buggy that 
rolls well. They expect an improvement 
from last year.
SDC hasnt been in the top 6 for a while 
and they think this year wont be any dif
ferent. They figure that one drawback they 
have is the fact that fraternities have more
authority over their people and therefore 
get better participation at practice and free 
roll than the independent organizations. 
Theyre looking for Blue Haze to finish in 
the top 6 in design once again.
Chances are slim for Delta Upsilon also 
whos buggy needs a lot of work. Theyre 
mainly out to have a good time because its 
great for all greeks to participate.
ZBT is pessimistic, claiming they still 
cant come up with a good buggy. Kappa 
Sigma still has a good way to come and 
Theta Xi had no comments at all.
I took a poll of all fifteen buggy chair
men, asking them to predict this years top 
three finishers. Five points were given for 
first place, three for second, and one for 
third. Here are the results of the first 
annual Buggy Chairmens Poll:
Commentary
(first place votes in parentheses)
(10)Pika
4)R,-;
(1)CIA
Pika
NuSigma
Beta
PhiKap
ENERGY.We can't afford to waste it.
n , il  * LommeniaryRooneysto appear abenevjt A p|ea for student
kM WRb sRRRM
The most respected man in professional 
football, the chairman of the board of the 
World Champion Pittsburgh Steelers, Art 
Rooney, Sr., will lead the contingent of 
Steeler players and management who will 
be at the City of Champions Sports Nite to 
be held this Sunday at the Skibo Gym. The 
event will benefit the Jimmy Starr Memorial 
scholarship Fund and begins at 7:00 PM. 
With him, Mr. Rooney will bring his son, 
director of scouting. Art Rooney, Jr. and 
defensive linemen Ted Peterson and L.C. 
Greenwood and offensive linesmen Ray 
Mansfield and Steve Courson.
The Steeler contingent is the most re
cent addition to the large list of Pittsburgh 
sports personalities of the past and present 
that will be on hand Sunday night along 
with several local entertainers. Also on 
hand will be former Pirate pitcher and now 
broadcaster. Nelson Briles, former Pirate 
pitcher and now Duquesne sports informa
tion director, Nellie King and Duquesne 
stars Doug Arnold and Bruce Atkins, Pitts
burgh Spirit president Frank Fhrer as well 
as all of the former Carnegic-Mellon basket
ball and football coiichcs.
The University of Pittsburgh will send 
several members of their football team, 
though exactly who has not been an
nounced, and the National Hockey League 
Penguins representatives will be deter
mined by their standing in the play-offs.
There will be many prizes to be won at 
the Sports Nite. They include footballs 
provided by the Steelers, Panthers, Cleve
land Browns and New England Patriots; 
Pittsburgh Pirate baseballs and bats; Pitts
burgh Penguin hockey sticks, one of which 
was used by Mark Johnson in the Lake 
Placid Olympics and a Pittsburgh Spirit 
soccer ball. There will also be many prizes 
that arent sports related including dinners 
and vacations.
Tickets for the Sports Nite are five 
dollars and can be bought at the Tartan 
football office, participating stop and Go 
stores, or from any member of the Tartan 
football team.
Anyone wishing further information can
contact the organizer of the event, CMU 
football coach Chuck Klausing at 578-2216
kM WRb sRRRM
I dont know how many people on cam
pus knew Jimmy Starr personally (I did 
not) but I have certainly heard a lot about 
him in the last months. He was an excellent 
student in the Metallurgy and Material 
Science Department who was well-respected 
by his department as well as being a starter 
on the football team. The feelings that 
his teammates had toward him are clear 
as the memorial fund was their idea to 
begin with.
At first, the flow of money into the 
fund was slow. The proceeds of one foot
ball game and one basketball game went to 
the fund, but, except for the nerous 
contributions of Coach Klausing and the 
players, that was the extent of it.
Then, Coach Klausing set the wheels 
of his Sports Nite into motion. That gave 
the Starr Fund exposure outside the im
mediate campus. For more than a month 
now, tickets for the Sports Nite have been 
on sale both on campus, by CMU football 
players, and off campus at Stop and Go 
stores and by various fr.ends of Coach 
Klausing and the Starr family.
The records of sales are alarming, to say 
the least. Whereas sales off campus have 
been going well (the mayors of Braddock 
and Wilmerding each sold large blocks, for 
example) sales here have been very slow. 
Despite the fact that all of Beta fraternity 
and the MMS department have contributed, 
sales have really been disappointing.
Im not sure I know the reason for this. 
Certainly Spring Carnival preparations and 
the late semester crunch has left everyone 
drained and not particularly ready for this 
event. Also,as much as 1 hate to admit it, 
intercollegiate athletics doesnt get too 
many people excited around here.
But I think this transcends sports. This 
is a benefit for a student who was admired 
by those who knew him as friends as well 
by those who were his professors. That, in 
itself, is probably a good enough reason 
to come; the fact that youll have a fun 
time and might walk away with Bum 
Phillips hat or a trip to Vegas is a bonus.
I hope we make this Sports Nite more 
of a success than even Coach Klausing ever 
thoight it could be. He certainly deserves 
it for all the work he has put in.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22 - TARTAN - April 15,1980
CMU
Dave Radeck 
Tom Sheridan 
Scott Mturner 
Gary Peirosky 
Tom Mortimer
39-37 
41-40
40-41
41-40 
47-37
Westminster
Ken Stewart 
Dana YeaJy 
Chris Schweikert 
Jeff Kranich 
Dave Greenaway
40-39
41-38 
40-42
42-42 
4545
ApriU21 ELECTRIC BANANA 
23,30weds. FAT CITY
. RAVE  ***'
The CMU tennis team will be at home tomorrow to face Case Western Reserve and Thursday to 
face Grove City College.
JUNIORS
Qualified science, mathematics or engineering 
students can earn over $700 each month of 
your senior year with little or no distractions 
from your studies. Program established to plan 
for prospective gains in a highly technical, 
executive management field. For early 
screening and eligibility determination, send 
resume or letter stating background and 
college transcripts to Mr. James Snyder, 
Program Manager, Suite 711, 1000 Liberty 
Ave., Pittsburgh, PA, 15222. Formal interviews 
for these limited positions will be forthcoming.
-------------------------------------------------1
THE CENTER JAZZ SERIES PRESENTS
Saxophonist
ERIC KLOSS
With Pianist
BARRY MILES
SATURDAY, APRIL 19
TICKETS
Balcony Seating - $6.00 
Table with refreshments - $8.00
Call 621-6500 today for tickets
To be held at the 
Jewish Community Center, 
31 5 S. Bellefield Ave.
Eighty-four teams battling for Intramural softball crowns
kM jRbnR WRnbRi
Softball seems to be the major sport for 
spring with 84 teams signed up to play. 
The schedules are now out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Please get all 
your games played and note winning score 
on score sheet. You cannot postpone any 
games. The commissioners are: majors 
Mike Pochan, phone 683-0372, interme
diatesDave Hofmeister, phone x4007, 
minersWes Seeley, and WomensMari
ano DeFilippo, x4002. Please check the 
IM Bulletin Board for the Play-off sched
ule.
Please get all team badminton games 
played on time in the main gym Tuesday 
and Thursday at 4:30 PM.
Please get all Bridge and Co-Rec Table 
Tennis games played.
The double champions in Table tennis 
were Rosenthal and Godiska. Please get all 
the single games completed.
The mens and womens foil in Fencing 
will be held Tuesday, April 22, at 5:00 PM 
in Thistle Hall. The team event will be held 
Thursday, April 24 in Thistle Hall at 5:00 
PM. Turn in all entries to Miss Fisk by 
Friday, April 18.
Golfers take fourth victory
The IM dinner will be on Tuesday, April 
29. There will be a cocktail hour from 5:30 
to 6:30. Dinner starts at 6:30 sharp. It will 
be in Room 100, Skibo. Please sign up in 
the IM office.
A reminder to all IM board members: 
please turn in your notes for IM person of 
the year and your nomination for IM 
board president. The last day to vote will 
be at the IM board meeting on Thursday, 
April 24 at 12:30 in Room 104, Gym.
Basketball Major League team captains: 
please turn in your vote for all school 
major league team and most valuable 
player.
The Track Meet will be held Thursday, 
April 24, at 4:30. The list of events is:
Shot Put..............................................4 3q
High Jump............................................4 .3Q
Long Jump............................................4.3Q
100 yard low hurdles.................. ... 4:45
880 relay..............................................5:00,
Mile run.................................................5 - j q
100 yard dash......................................5 20
440 yard dash.......................................535
880 yard run.......................................5 45
220 yard dash.......................................6:qo
Mile relay..............................................6:15
Scoring - 6 places (10,8,6,4,2,1)
There will be heats for women only irt 
all events.
The commissioner is Craig Woolheater 
who can be reached at 682-7088.
10-kilometer run this Friday
Theres a new event to add to your list 
of must activities for Spring Carnival week
end. On Friday afternoon of Carnival, 
SARC (Student-Alumni Relations Com
mittee) will be sponsoring the first annual 
10 kilometer run through Schenley Park. 
The 6.2 mile course will wind its way 
through much of Schelneys wooded and 
hilly terrain. With the additon of nice 
weather, the conditions and course should 
be inspiring and challenging.
Awards will be given to the first three 
male and female finishers in each of three 
age categories. Just for completing the 
run, all participants receive a race T-shirt 
as well. A registration fee of $5.00 is asked. 
Remember:
Race Time: 2:30 PM April 18
(rain date: 10:00 AM April 20) 
Registration Deadline: April 16
(go to the SARC office in Warner Hall
5 th floor) 
Run with SARC through the Park!
kM LViM dRiotbkM
The CMU golfers improved their record 
Saturday to four wins and one loss on the 
season with a 403-414 victory over West
minster College last Saturday at Longvue 
Country Club.
Senior Dave Radack led the charge for 
the Tartans, shooting a 76 to earn medalist 
honors. Tom Sheridan, Gary Petrosky and 
Scott Mourier each fired 81s while Tom 
Mortimer and Tony Palermo shot 84 and 
86 respectively.
The Tartans return to the links today to 
face John Carroll, Case Western Reserve 
and Thiel at Longvue Country Club. They 
will then set their sights on the Griffen In
vitational to be played at Conneaut Lake 
the Saturday and Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTf
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
April 23 and 24
VOTE AT SKIBO 
ONLY!!!
Seats Available:
(6)CIT
(4)MIS
(2)H&SS
(1)AMS
(6)CFA
Student Government President
VOTE
_____________________________________________J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24 - TARTAN - April 15,1980
CMU Mech E to try out for United States Whitewater team
kM mRtaM mVzznR
Move over Herb Simon, CMU's got 
another celebrity in its midst! Kent Ford, 
a Mechanical Engineering senior, will be 
trying out for the U.S. Whitewater Kayaking 
team on May 3 and 4.
If Kent qualifies in the top three at the 
trials (and the chances are good that he 
will ), he then qualifies for the Europa 
Cup. The Europa Cup might be described 
as the World Cup of kayaking. It consists 
of three races-one in Italy, one in France, 
and one in Spain. The winner of the cup 
is the paddler who does the best consis
tently; that is, the one who obtains the 
most points from all three races.
According to Kent, there are five tough 
American competitors that he must face in 
the U.S. trials. Since the Americans are his 
toughest competition, he expects to do 
well in the Europa Cup.
Kent started paddling nine years ago in 
Washington D.C. when his family became 
active in a kayak club. Interestingly, half 
of the present U.S. team also comes from 
DC.
In 75, Kent raced in his first National 
Championships and came in 13th out of 
about 25. The following year he moved 
up to fourth place, and by 1977 won the 
Nationals. That same year Kent went on 
to the World Championships in Austria. 
He took seventh place in individuals and 
fourth in the three-man team event.
The C-l slalom event is Kents speciality. 
The C-l is not quite the same as a kayak. 
It is paddled in the kneeling position with a 
single blade paddle. The slalom involves 
going through gates that are suspended' 
over the river.
When 1978 rolled around, Kent took 
third at the Pre-World Championships. He 
was thus theoretically seeded to be third at 
the World Championships in the slalom.
World-class whitewater kayaker and senior mechanical engineer Kent Ford steers through a gate. He will be attempting to qualify for the U.S. team next 
month.
Last spring Kent took off from school and 
trained for the World Championships held 
in Quebec that summer.
Unfortunately, Kent missed the U.S. 
team slalom by 0.3 seconds at the trials. 
There are only four kayaks in each event, 
and he came in fifth. The top four that 
made the slalom team came in 1,2, 3, and 
5 in the World Championships. Kent did 
make the team, but not in his event; he 
was forced to go to wildwater, which is not 
a slalom but a straight run. It is also a 20 
minute race as opposed to the 3-4 minute 
slalom.
Individually, Kent came in 8th in wild
water and won a sliver medal in the team 
event. France took the gold by a mere 0.4 
seconds.
Now Kent is striving to make the top 
three in the slalom event of the U.S. team 
trials. The Europa Cup will then be held at 
the end of Junebeginning of July.
Maintaining a hectic but exciting 
schedule, Kent will go to California after 
the Cup for Nationals; After a month in 
North Carolina, where he will work at a 
rafting place, he flies to Great Britain, at
the end of August for the Pre-World 
Championships. From there its back to 
the U.S. to train for the World Champion
ships of summer 81.
After Kent graduates this May, he will 
try to keep his engineering up to date 
while training for competition. Fortunately, 
whitewater kayaking was not in the 
Olympics this year or Kent would have 
spent a year training in vain because of 
the boycott. If whitewater is an event in 
the 84 Olympics, however, Kent will be 
out. tjiere training!
COATCfT
THE PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE ON ENERGY] 
CONSERVATION WISHES TO ANNOUNCE A 
CONTEST.
OBJECTIVE to get student help in identifying areas 
where energy is wasted and ways to decrease the waste. 
1 N C E N T IV E . For the best ideas submitted each two 
week period the committee will award up to three $25.00 cash prizes.
ACCOMPLISHMENT: Award winning
ideas will be considered as part of our energy conservation program.
Decisions by a 
few arbitrarily 
chosen judges 
whose decisions 
are arbitrary 
and final.
DROP IN 
CAMPUS 
MAIL
ENERGY CONSERVATION COMMITTEE 
RM 115 SCAIFE HALLI CO DAM
Name
Campus Address 
Student I D #__

---------------------------------------------------

 April 15,1980 - TARTAN - Page 25
Tartan track team remains unbeaten with win at PAC relays
^ r w jam -
Mike Lynch, shown here clearing the bar at the CMU-W&J-CWRU meet, helped give the pole vaulters 
a first place finish at the PAC relays.Hufnagel earns NCAA award
Larry Hufnagel, a four-year letterman 
for the Carnegie-Mellon University basket
ball team, has received a $2,000 National 
Collegiate Athletic Association Scholarship 
for postgraduate study, the NCAA an
nounced today.
Hufnagel, a 6-6, 210-lb. forward from 
Mt. Lebanon, Pa., led the 1979-80 Tartans 
in scoring (17.9 ppg) and rebounding (9.4 
>g) to earn a berth on the Presidents 
Athletic Conference All-Conference team.
As a junior, Hufnagel averaged 20.2 points 
and 8.4 rebounds per contest, to earn the 
leagues Most Valuable Player award.
Academically, the South Hills Catholic 
graduate maintains a 3.18 grade average 
while majoring in Business Administration, 
and was a 1979 Academic All-America 
selection.
Hufnagel is the second CMU athlete to 
recieve an NCAA scholarship this year, 
joining Gusty Sunseri, an All-American 
defensive back for the Tartan footbal team.
',e
Q0V v e?fARMCOV
Led by the strong performances of the 
field men, the CMU track team scored an 
impressive victory at the PAC relays at 
John Carroll University, near Cleveland, 
last Saturday. Their total of 98 points was 
far ahead of Bethany and Hiram who 
battled for second.
The Tartans top performer that after
noon was junior Joe Goldcamp who had 
the fifth best throw of the competition of 
over 172 feet. He also ran the anchor leg 
of the shuttle relay, coming in with a time 
of 15.3 to take the tape.
Tri-captain George Canepa had a final 
leap of over 42 feet in the triple jump after 
fouling on his first two attempts to lead 
the Plaid to a win in that event and Rnh 
Kromer, Bill Clouse and Jim Lynch com
bined to take the pole vault event.
The Tartans also captured the 400 
meter relay with Joe Giansante, John 
Wooldridge, Kevin Cureton and Avi 
Orenstein easily outdistancing the opposi
tion despite a shaky start and two poor 
handoffs.
CMU also took four second place 
finishes with Greg Lentz running in the
first leg of the two mile relay and the 
anchor leg of the sprint medley. The 
Tartans also placed in the long jump and 
shot put.
The win keeps Carnegie-Mellon unfeated this year and sets them up for 
their meeting this Saturday with John 
Carroll and Thiel at 2 PM at Tech Field. 
D*scus - Sih ,
Javelin  1st (Goldcamp, Conrad, Wagner) 
Long Jump - 2nd (Parrot, Jaworski,
Pole Vault  1st (Kramer, Clouse. Lynch) 
Shot Put  2nd (Steinke, Hall, GrinneH) 
Triple Jump - 1st (Holmes, Canepa, 
Parrot) 
400 meter - 1st (Giansante, Wooldridge 
Cureton, Orenstein) ^
Sprint medley - 2nd (Wooldridge, Oren
stein, Krein. Donatelli)
Mile Relay - 5th 
Distance medley  3rd 
Two mile - 2nd (Lentz, Gravel, Klaiber, 
Donatelli)
Four mile - 3rd
Shuttle Hurdles - 1st (Gannis, Delo, 
Goldcamp)
FORBES STREET GALLERY
STAFF POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
FOR 1980-81
* DIRECTOR
* ASST. DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS
* ASST. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
* BUSINESS MANAGER
(Asst, to Operations & Public Relations)
* compensated positions
Applications can be picked up at the Art Dept. 
Office, Design Dept. Office, and Skibo Info 
Desk.
All Applications must be returned by 
April 23, 1980

---------------------------------------------------

I
,71. RUSSELL
!
Professsonal football playe 
Leader of the con*~*
mVjti Jt.cbtc
% gVicRenR mRtc yilM ROTg 
dnoobkFie.f dRccbMvVcnV Q52Q3
DRVi mVjtiv
Sc Q95u S kReVc V ftFi MRVi VionRiM ROTg oiVncnce rtFibR Vo o.R UcnvRibnoM tf
mnbbtFin Vca eiVaFVoRa wno. V RRbRivR gtllnbbntc nc Q963. yfoRi bKRcance bnx
ltco.b wno. o.R dnoobkFie. soRRRibf S VooRcaRa OffnrRib BVbnr TiVncnce nc Wo. 
snf OkV.tlV kRftiR kRnce bRco tvRi fti owt MRVib VronvR aFoM nc WRbo LRilVcM. Sc WRbo LRilVcMf S VroRa Vb Wnibo jnRFoRcVco WtiwVia OkbRivRi fti Vc 8 ncr. bRfT 
KitKRRa HtwnozRi BVooVntc nc NickRief LRilVcM Vca Vbt bRivRa nc o.R bKRrnV 
bRivnrRb. Sc DRrRlkRif Q9L5f S wVb oiVcbfRiiRa tFo tf VronvR aFoM ncot V rtc
oit eitFK nc o.R iRbRivRb nc so. jtFnbf mnbbtFin.
BVbnrVM S ftFca lM ROTg Vca mnnoViM RxKRinRcrR ot kR RxrRRco KiRKViVontc 
fti lM bFkbRqFRco rViRRib nc KitfRbbntcV fttokV Vca kFbncRbb. Sc fVrof lM 
wnfR Vca Sf ttknce kVrkf RcjtMRa o.R owt MRVib nc LRilVcM V eiRVo aRV Vca rRi
oVncM wtFa cto oiVaR no jti owt ltiR MRVib tf fttokV RxKRinRcrR. mM twc 
rtcrFbntc nVb kRRc o.Vo lnnoViM RxKRinRcrR tffRib o.R fttwncev
T.R tKKtioFcnoM ot aRvRtK tcRb RVaRib.nK bknb
T.R RcvnitclRco w.RiR V KRibtc rVc RVic .tw ot tKRiVoR RffRronvRM 
FcaRi RxoiRlR KiRbbFiRb.
T.R tKKtioFcnoM ot aRvRtK ValncnboiVontc Vca tieVcnzVontcV bknb
QFnoR tfoRc o.R tKKtioFcnoM ot wtik wno. Vca kR iRbKtcbnkR fti V 
VieR eitFK tf lRc Vca RxKRcbnvR lVr.ncRiM w.nr. fVi RxrRRab o.R fn 
cVcRnV iRbKtcbnknnoM o.Vo tcR wtFa kR envRc Vo bFr. V MtFce VeR 
nc VcM rtiKtiVontc.
yktvR ViR tcM V Rw tn o.R VavVcoVeRb o.Vo S fRR bncrRiRM wRiR envRc ot lR kM 
lM lnnoViM RxKRinRcrR. S anac'o RvRc lRcontc o.R tKKtioFcnoM ot oiVvR Vca bRR 
o.R wtiaf Vca o.R rtliVaRiM o.Vo Rxnbob kRowRRc lRc FcaRi KiRbbFiR.
OkvntFbM S wtFa .ne.M iRrtllRca o.Vo tFi rtReR boFaRcob KFibFR V iRbRivR 
rtllnolRco ot o.R lnnoViM aRfRcbRb. Sc otaVM'b vtVonR Vca aVceRitFb wtiaf 
no'b ncriRVbnceM rRVi onVo V boitce NVontcV DRfRcbR nb Vb nlKtioVco Vb RvRi 
WR cRRa rVKVkR lRc RVance tFi oittKb Vb Vc nlKtioVco aRoRiiRco ot wVi Vca nc
bFince KRVrRfF rtRxnboVcrR wno. tFi KitoVetcnbob.
Ltta Frk wno. MtFi Q98u gVicRenR mRtc ROTg KiteiVlf
Heres'imheh
abotROT*s<osay
fmsdl gsteMf, fflSo
JVcFViM 3Qf Q98u
Q5 Ntio.
T.iRR LVoRwVM gRcoRi 
dnoobkFie.f dV. Q5222 
(4Q2) 39QT8Q5u

---------------------------------------------------

sKRrnV WinaVM Wnl
Oc T.R TtwcTLRcR Kelly, Frank Sinatra 
and Ann Miller in a 24 hour romp in New 
York City. Includes "New York, New York, 
and "It's a Wonderful Town. 6,8,10PM in; 
pH 2210. $1 with CMU ID, $1.50 without.arts
theater
wrct
T.itFe. yKin 2uf T.FibTsFc 
st.t RRKRiotiM gtlKVcM
The Hostage, Brendan Behan's play about 
prejudice and chauvinism in a Dublin 
lodging house, runs at the corner of Fifth 
and Craig in Oakland. 682-0438 for tickets 
T.itFe. mVM 3 
Wttone.o DnccRi T.RVoRi 
CMU students Gregg Kirsopp, Debbie 
Pollack, Robby Marshall and John 
McDaniel star in Five, Six, Seven, Eight, a 
revue of current Broadway tunes. At the 
Old Allegheny (next to Heinz Hall). 281 - 
0803 for reservations and information. 
yKin 9mVM Q8 
dnoobkFie. dFknr T.RVoRi 
The Public's final production of the 1979- 
80 season is Mac Beth, one of Shakespeare's 
darkest tragedies. Performances at the 
Allegheny Theater. 323-1900 for tickets 
and information.
yKin Q9T23f8 Vca Qu dm 
CMU professor Gregory Lehane stars in 
Samuel Beckett's one-act play, Krapp's 
Last Tape, at the Lion Walk performing 
Arts Center. Seating is limited; reservations 
are advised. 621-7887 for information. 
T.itFe. yKin 2uf T.FibTsFc 
T.RVoiR hxKiRbb
Gertrude Stein's Made By Two, scored by 
Express' William Turner, returns to Pitts
burgh after New York premiere. Intelligent 
insight into Stein and Alice B. Toklas' 
famous relationship. 651-5454 for tickets 
and information.films
sDg Wnl bRinRb
DH 2210. $.50 with CMU I.D., $.75 w/o. 
BarbarellaJane Fonda is a sex symbol in 
outer space.
gVicRenR ScbonoFoR Wnl sRinRb 
yKin Q5
My Love Has Been BurningKenji Mizoguchi director's series. Museum of Art 
Theater at 8:30. $1.50.
yKin Q,
In asssociation with the Institute's Earthday activities, environmental artist Nancy 
Holt will present her films Swamp, Pine 
Barrrens and Sun Tunnels. Museum of 
Art Theater at 8:30. $1.00.
yKin Q9
Breaking Away Popular movie about a 
small town Indiana boy who dreams of 
becoming an Italian bicycle champion. 
3:00 in Music Hall. $1.50.
yKin 2u
Grey Gardens  Depicts the life of the 
Bealesthe aunt and cousin of Jacqueline 
Kennedy Onassisin their decaying Long 
Jsjand_nnansion. Lecture Hall at 8:30. $1.
ES53BB
yKin Q8 Vo 8 Kl 
mFaaM WVoRib
A.B. and the Student Dorm council of 
CMU present their Spring Carnival concert 
in the CMU gym. Admission is $2.00 for 
CMU students with a 50 cent discount for 
dorm residents. Tickets at Skibo 
Information Desk.
yKin Q6 Vo 6 Kl.
mFbnr nc OKRc sKVrR 
On the CMU campus between the college 
of Fine Arts and Hammerschlag Hall. A 
large scale production of contemporary 
music involving over thirty musicians, 
composers and technicians. May be a 
world record size. Conceived and coordin
ated by CMU graduate computer scientist 
Roger Dannenberg.
yKin Q, Vo 8 Kl.
gmU gtcoRlKtiViM mFbnr hcbRlkR
Program includes compositions by CMU 
music students and the Pittsburgh premiere 
of a sonata by CMU music professor Leon
ardo Balada. Alumni Concert Hall. Free 
Admission.
yKin Q8 Vca Q9 Vo 8 Kl.
KVo.iMc dtbnc DVcrR gtlKVcM
The Pittsburgh Dance Council presents
coming eventsi
yKin Q,T26
gmU DiVlV DRKViolRco
The Lady From the Sea by Henrik Ibsen 
stars Catherine Haun as a wife who dreams 
of her former lover and feels trapped in 
her marriage. Adapted by graduate playwrighting student Neil A. Ward. At the 
Kresge Theater. Free tickets at drama 
box office.
yKin Q,TQ9 
srtor. Vca staV
Carnegie-MelIon's resident theater troupe 
presents its Spring Musical, Kije, in Skibo 
Ballroom. Kije is an original musical; 
written, directed, designed and acted by 
CMU students. Can a chaste princess find 
happiness with a mere minstrel in the 
magical Land of Wuz? Tickets are available 
at Skibo Information Desk for $2.50. 
578-3522 for information.
yKin Q8TQ9 Vca 25T26 
Sitc gVa yeiRRlRco
A double bill of original plays: My Dear 
Sisters, CMU professor James Rosenberg's 
play about the Grimke Sisters, early social 
! reformers, and 57 by Two, a Vaudeville 
treatment of the life of H.J. Heinz, the 
famous food processor. At the Lion 
Walk on Baum Boulevard. 731-2445 for 
tickets and information.
yKin Q,f 2 dm
Megaskates
Rent roller skates in front of Doherty Hall 
for $2.50/hour for a 2 hour limit.
Posin's company in a radiant fusion of 
ballet, modern, jazz and rock classics. At 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center. 355- 
0330 for tickets and information.
yKin Q9 Vo 8 dm 
HViiM g.VKnc
The storytelling composer of "Cat's in the 
Cradle and 'Taxi" will perform at the 
Stanley. 281-2800.
WtFio. VccFV JFinRa yio s.tw 
WtikRb soiRRo LVRiM
This years review of CMU art works was re
viewed by Dorothea Rockburne. Opening 
is tonight, April 15, exhibit continues at 
the Gallery, Tue-Sun, 12:30 to 4:30 and 
7:00 to 9:00.
HRcin gVionRi Bibbtcv d.toteiVK.Ri 
mFbRFl tf yiof gVicRenR ScbonoFoR
A 50-year perspective exhibition featuring 
the French photographer ,will be on view 
from April 17 through June 8. The exhibi
tion contains 155 photographs personally 
chosen by Cartier Bresson. Part of a major 
nationwide tour.
yKin Q6 Vo 8 dm
ScoRicVontcV dtRoiM WtiFl
Pulitzer and Nobel Prize winner Saul
Bellow will appear at the Cartiegie Lecture
Hall. Tickets are $2.50 for students.
621-9893 for tickets and information.
yKin 2Q Vo 6 dm
3 hours of LiVoRfF DRVa with Mark Pleskow and DJ Dave.yKin 22 Vo 8 dm
ditfnRb tc dViVaR
An intimate interview with George Gee, 
WRCT program manager director, DJ, Big 
Band enthusiast and aspiring Big Band dir
ector. '
Spend Spring Carnival with WRCT - LIVE 
from the Midway!_____________________________
Technology; Options and 
Outlooks fer the 80s
WALKER
.ege
DR. MARIONformer director C-MAP,_ _ an of school of engin., Howard Univ. Wash. D.C.
TUESDAY APRIL 15 8PM GSLA. AUDITORIUM SPONSORED BY NATIONAL SOCIETY OF BLACK ENGINE ER3

---------------------------------------------------

April 18th at 2:30 PM
Alumni Office, $5 entry fee
  *? . -*/' -* v* " V, - *T
classified
jFcr.TjFo.RiVc UcnvRibnoM gRcoRif 45Q5
Forbes. Mon-Fri. 11:30-1:15. Soup, sand
wich or salad, dessert, beverage, $1.25. 
Everyone welcome.
TYdSNL. hxKRinRcrRa. mM HtlR. sRRroinr
II. 521-7888.
T.iRR kRaittlf rViKRoncef VKKnVcrRbf
laundry heat paid. From $389. Available 
May, June, and September. 682-7010. 
gtFcrRtibf tvRi Q9 fti FcnqFR tvRi
night boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge 
Mountains of Penna. Able to instruct either 
one of following. Watersafety, Arts & Crafts, 
Soccer, Basketball, Ahletics, Rockclimbing, 
Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. 
Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler 
Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444, or call 
215-828-4824 collect.
DVcrR gVbbRb. Rtrk c Rtf DnbrtTJVzz. 
"Big Band Era, "New Wave Rock". 
Holiday House 241-2162.
gtReR soFaRcob T sFllRi Jtkb!! 
Interviewing and reserving now for full
time/part-time local work, Pittsburgh, and 
surrounding counties. Car necessary, start 
at $5.83/hr., hours flexible. Call (12 noon 
to 4 PM) Monday through Saturday. 
682-6127.
sFllRi HtFbnce VvVnVkR Vov T.RoV Xn
fraternity. For info call 682-9580. Ask for 
Summer House Manager.
s.VaMbnaR T owt Vca o.iRR kRaittl FxFiM
apts. Equipped kitchen, dishwasher, dis
posal; a/c,w/w, fireplace, bay window, 
security door. $325-$375 plus gas and 
electric. Available May-Sept. Now taking 
applications 3-5 PM 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887.
BVbb dVMRi wno. d.y. ncot cRw wVvR ti
power pop rock, call Bernie 834-1055.
JOB HUNTSNL? LRo ltiR ncoRivnRwb wno. 
a professionally prepared, individually de
signed resume from employment experts. 
Complete writing, editing, typing and 
printing services. Special student discount 
rates! Call today! MANGO-ANDREWS 
RESUME SERVICE - 391-3232.
LSRjs. yRh YOU jOOKSNL WOR y 
SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION ? 
Applicants are now being considered for 
the 1980 camp season. Must be able to 
teach one of the following: Arts & Crafts, 
Arts & Crafts Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing. Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General 
Athletics. COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, 
must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for 
activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise 
large staff. Write Camp Office, 6410 
Beacon St., Pittsburgh, Pa., 15217, or 
phone, 412-521-2376.
HRK WVcoRav $3.,u/o.tFbVca fti RcvR
lopes you mail. Postage paid. Free applica
tion. J. T. Jones, R.D.I., C3S Hunker, 
PA, 15639.
sFllRi jtkv hh ti mh KiRfRiiRaf OVkaVR
Call Mr. Buchanan @921-4300.
snvRi rtncb wVcoRa. Hne.Rbo KinrRb. yfoRi
5 PM. 521-2749.
jVFiRc Vca jRb sFnbbRb
Merci beaucoup pour la surprise party. Je 
vous aime. The C.I.A.
Wtto bFrkb anioM bwRVobtrkb.
mVR ittllVoR ot b.ViR s.VaMbnaR VKVio
ment. 2 BR, furnished, fireplace in bed
room. 687-7739 after 7 PM. Ask for Jim or 
Sam. $150/month.
sTUDhNT RyThsf HOUshsTydTsTDUT
PLEXES. SHADYSIDE large older home 
open lease. SHADYSIDE a/c 2 BR utilities 
paid appls. SHADYSIDE 4 rooms furn. utils. paid garage. OAKLAND lovely 2 BR 
parking drapes/carpet. OAKLAND nicely 
furnished 1 BR utilities paid. OAKLAND 
spacious student special 3 baths. SQ HILL 
Clean 4 rooms fireplace garage. SQ HILL 
large 6 rooms a/c bills paid. Call now for 
September rentals. Over 700 to choose 
from. All areas all prices. For office near
est you call 681-1453. RENTEX. Open 7 
days.clubs
T.R yio syg wn kR bRnce fiRb. kiRwRa
coffee, tea, cocoa, and doughnuts every 
Monday through Wednesday mornings 
9-11:30 in the lobby of the 3rd floor, 
Fine Arts. Proceeds will finance the 
Fine Arts Film Series.
T.R yboitctlM gFk lRRob WRacRbaVM Vo
7:30 PM in Science Hall 7421. If weather 
permits, the ten-inch reflector will be used 
for observations. For further information, 
leave name and telephone number in the 
club mailbox, Physics Department (SCH 
7322). Everbody is welcome.
gOgO (gtllFoRi & OffTgVlKFb OieVc
ization) has established a set meeting time 
and place: Wednesdays at 11:30 AM, Skibo 
11. Work is beginning on a lounge and 
office spaceAll are invited to come and 
help. Bring your lunch and come to 
tomorrow's meeting; we'd be glad to have 
you.
T.R gmU HnR gFk wn lRRo tc sFcaVMf
April 20, at 6:30 PM at Hillel House, 131 
Margaret Morrison.official
Jt.c d. giRrncRf DRVc tf o.R gtReR tf
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
ygHShVh BhTThR LRyDhs SN YOUR
COURSES by improving your writing 
skills. The Communication Skills Center 
offers free individual help with interpret
ing assignments, finding ideas, planning 
and revising. Make appointments with 
faculty and specially trained students 
from 9 - 4 Monday thur Friday at 161 
Baker Hall - 578-2924.
T.R lVnc tbo Vca ftFca aRKViolRco fti 
the University is located at Security, 155 
Baker Hall. Some of the unclaimed items 
include valuable radios, calculators, cam
eras, and jewelry. There are also quite a 
few gloves, umbrellas, keys, and glasses. 
These items will be released to persons 
able to furnish an adequate description as 
well as the approximate time lost.
hXST SNThRVShWs WOR yjj myY Q9*u
GRADUATES with National Direct/De
fense Student Loans will be hold from 
April 21 thru April 25. Interviews will also 
be held for any NDSL borrower who, 
although not graduating, will not be re
turning for the Fall 1980 semester. The 
interviews will last approximately fiveminutes and will be scheduled as follows: 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse, 
Monday thru Friday, 9 AM to 4 PM. If 
unable to attend or for more information 
call Mr. Rapin, 578-2094 or come to the 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse.general
OKonrV strnRoM tf ylRinrVf dnoobkFie.
section invites you to a lecture on "Optical 
Research in Applied Biophysics Laboratory 
of Technical University of Budapest on 
April 16. The speaker will be Prof. Pal 
Gregus of Appl. Biophysics Lab. of Tech
nical University of Budapest, Hungary. 
This lecture will begin at 8:30 PM in the 
multi-purpose room of Hunt Library, CMU 
and is open to the public.
gVntKR HtFbR Scr. KiRbRcob V kRcRfno 
Fourth Annual Smokey City Folk Festival. 
Devilish Merry and Dwayne Thorpe will 
be presented on Sunday, April 27 at 7:00 
PM, at the Third Presbyterian Church at 
Fifth and Negley Avenues, in Shadyside. 
Donation is $5.00 and for more information, 
call 322-6359.Bnio.ine.o tf dnoobkFie.f w.tbR lRlkRib
assist distressed pregnant women in ex
ploring alternatives to abortion, will begin 
orientation and training sessions for pro
spective volunteers on Tuesday, April 15, 
1980, at 7:30 PM at the Birthright office 
in Lawrenceville. For more information, 
call 361-1101.
gRRkiVoR SbiVR ScaRKRcaRcrR DVM. gtlR
to Pittsburgh's Annual Salute to Israel 
Parade on Sunday, April 27. The parade 
will begin at 1:00 PM from the corner of 
Beacon and Wightman and will proceed to 
Frick Park. B'nai B'rith Hillel will be 
marching together with BBYO. The CMU 
Hillel Club will have a barbeque and elec
tions for next year's officers after the 
parade at Frick Park.
Bh y BSL BROTHhR OR BSL sSsThR
There is a boy or girl in the Pittsburgh 
area who needs just a little of your timeto know you care, to know you are there. 
Call Big Brothers and Sisters of Greater 
Pittsburgh, Inc., 621-6100.
T.R gtlkncRa g.tnib tf T.R g.Fir. tf 
the Redeemer at 5700 Forbes Ave., 
Squirrel Hill, will present an Evensong 
Program in the church sanctuary at 4:30 
Pm, April 20. All are cordially invited to 
attend.
HnR .Vb VKKnrVontcb fti o.R NVontcV
Hillel Summer Institute to be held August 
20-27, 1980, in Starlight, Pa. The theme of 
the week will be JUDAISM IN TRAN
SITION. Deadline for the application is 
May 1.
Oc WRacRbaVMf yKin Q6f KRno. mttiRf
Director of PR at CMU, will be speaking 
about PR and Communications at 4 PM in 
the H&SS lounge.
Earth Week Celebrationa three day public
event honoring the 10th anniversary 0f 
Earth Day will take place April 18-20 |n 
eluded are: seminars, special events, de 
monstrations, tours, and exhibits. Mar 
Travers, of Peter, Paul, and Mary, will ^ 
performing Friday evening and Saturday 
morning. Call 622- 238 for further inf0r. 
mation.
NVontcV BcVn Bino. HnR nb bKtcbtince
four exciting programs for university stu
dents to experience and learn about Israel 
It is possible to obtain from 3-6 units of ^ 
college credit. Approximate cost of trips 
is $1,150, including airfare. Programs are
I. Kibbutz Seminar; II. Sephardic Culture
& Community; III. Political Culture and 
Ideaology; IV. Holocaust and Redemp
tion. For more information, pick up a 
brochure in the Hillel office, 3rd floor 
315 S. Beliefield Avenue.
Local artists and craftsmen are invited to 
exhibit and see their original'work at the 
4th annual Highland Fling Arts & Crafts 
Festival on Sunday, June 29, in Highland 
Park (East End), the Fling will also host 
musicians, dancers, children's activities, a 
mini-marathon and food concessions. The 
Highland Park Community Club and the 
City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks & 
Recreation are co-sponsoring this popular 
event. For further information contact 
Nellie Curran, 1012 N. Sheridan Avenue,
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 or call 363 - 0872. Rabbi Ira Eisenstein, President of the Re
constructionist Rabbinical College in Phila
delphia, and Editor of the Reconstruction
ist Magazine, will be the guest of Dor Hadash Congregation on April 18 and 19 
1980. He will speak on "Is Judaism Possi
ble Without Halakha?" on Friday evening, 
April 18, after services (which begin at 
8:30 PM) at the Wolk Chapel, Hebrew In
stitute, Squirrel Hill. The public is invited. 
The Council on International Education 
Exchange (ClEE), the largest student travel 
organization in the U.S., announces the 
publication of the 1980 Student Travel 
Catalog.The Catalog may be obtained from
Cl EE, Dept. STC 80, 205 East 42nd Street,
New York, N.Y. 10017 (212) 661 -1414
or 312 Sutter Street, San Francisco, CA
94108 (415) 421 - 3473, enclosing $.50
for postage and handling.The Pittsburgh Council American Youth
Hostels will present the movie "Paradox of 
Plenty on April 17 at 8:45 PM at the Pitts
burgh A.Y.H., 6300 Fifth Ave.' The pro
gram is free and open to the general public. 
Christians from all over the United States 
jre having a rally in Washington D.C.. April 
29, 1980 marks the day that over one mil
lion Christian people will gather in Washing
ton to pray, fast and meet with political 
leaders. Jim Laine, Pastor of Faith Com
munity and co-host of the Getting^lt To
gether Show on WPCB-TV Channel 40 ex
tends an invitation to all churches and 
people to join him on the trip to Washing
ton. Transportation is being arranged so 
that the groups will arrive in time for the 
morning prayer and will depart after the 
communion service. Anyone interested call 
831-1910 between 10 AM and 4 PM.
Through the park
