Volume 85, Issue 19
Housing 
re keys 
E-Tower 
locks
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
For the second time in less than a month, 
the Housing Office has changed the locks 
to a residence hall due to the theft of a 
master key.
Housings woes focused on Morewoods 
E-Tower, as the sub-master key to the 
building was stolen from the main desk in 
A-Tower. This latest theft, coupled with 
the theft of the master key to the new dorm 
in January, has forced a change in 
Housings security policy.
For the remainder of the semester, 
master keys will no longer be available, 
said Director of Housing Tony Martin. 
During Housing Office hours (8:30 am to 
9 pm), students who are locked out will be 
able to check out a spare key. In off-hour 
emergencies, students will have to rely on 
the security department.
The theft of the key was not detected for 
almost two days because someone switched 
the sub-master key for an old Doherty key. 
The reason it wasnt detected was that 
the desk attendants and resident assisPlease see LOCKS, page 5
the mm
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaXI March 1991
Junior civil engineering major Ron Domltrovic, a Theta Xi brother, pushes the Theta Xi buggy Nemesis up the course during freerolls yesterday morning. Organizations 
are taking to the buggy course on weekend mornings in preparation for Carnival races on April 19 and 20.
Murphy takes helm at Housing, Residence Life
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
As of July 1 of this year, the Housing 
Office and the Residence Life Program 
will unite with the Division of Student 
Affairs under the direction of Carnegie 
Mellon Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy.
According to a memo from Vice Presi
dent for Enrollment William Elliott, the 
move, taken after careful consideration, 
is to help further integrate student ser
vices and continue building a campus 
community which more fully comple
ments the academic reputation [of] Car
negie Mellon.
Murphy will work with Tony Martin, 
director of Housing, Amy Ginther, the 
director of residence life, and others, 
stated the memo, to orchestrate this 
transition.
They will explore opportunities for 
enhancing strategic planning, specialty 
housing, faculty in residence, summer 
housing, Greek life, international stu
dent support, co-curricular program de
velopment, freshman orientation, 
graduate and community housing, and 
other ways to promote integration of
student' services throughout the Carn
egie Mellon community, the memo 
stated.
The memo also stateds that Over the 
past 10 years, the residence halls have 
undergone considerable renovation and 
upgrading, highlighted by the comple
tion of ... Resnik House and the West 
Wing. Under the capable leadership of 
[Martin], the residence halls now offer 
an impressive array of living options and 
an excellent residence life program, based 
on a superb Resident Assistant program 
and a strong Student Dormitory Coun
cil.
Over the time that Ive been at Carn
egie Mellon, Ive tried to make all of the 
aspects of the residence hallsthe busi
ness, the facilities, and the life inside the 
facitilitieswork more directly through 
the housing office, instead of several 
offices, said Martin.
Becoming a part of Student Affairs 
should help to further that goal, and 
allows us even better contact with stu
dents.
The Quality of Life Report, issued in 
1987, included a recommendation for A 
commitment to the total development of 
students.
This move should help further that 
goal, as well as helping work toward 
suggestions by the Faculty Senate Stu; 
dent Affairs Committee for possible 
methods for strengthing a sense of com
munity identity among students in the 
residence halls.
[Murphy] has told me that since mov
ing into Student Affairs, he has had a lot 
more contact with academic affairs and 
faculty, and he sees this direction as 
being important for student life, and so 
thats [one thing] we can bring to the 
residence life area through this move, 
said Martin.
Volume m855,IIoo sluu819 Hu8i89I n,9I I8 o,geI
List of candidates tightens as search to replace Jordan nears end
By DONNA MELLINGER
Special to The Tartan
Since its formation in the fall of 
1990, the Provost Search Com
mittee has been scouring the 
country for the person who will 
replace current Carnegie Mellon 
Provost Angel Jordan.
According to Search Commit
tee Chair and Head of the Engi
neering and Public Policy De
partment Granger Morgan, The 
search has been narrowed down 
to eight candidates  four from 
inside the University and four 
from outside. Last Thursday, the 
final candidate left the university
The search has been narrowed down 
to eight candidates, four from inside 
the University and four from outside.  
 Granger Morgan, 
Provost Search Committee chair
after an extensive tour of the 
campus.
For the next several weeks, the 
committee will turn its attention 
to the candidates from within the 
Carnegie Mellon community.
Once the candidate interviews
are complete, the Search 
Committees job is done, said 
Morgan. It will then meet with 
Carnegie Mellon President Rob
ert Mehrabian to brief him on its 
work and to give him a recom
mendation for the job.
Mehrabian will then meet with 
each of the candidates and select 
the Universitys next provost.
For the committee, the 
completion of the candidate 
search will bring to a close many 
months of time-consuming re
search and interviewing, said 
Morgan. The 12-member com
mittee was formed early last fall 
to identify possible candidates for 
the position of provost.
Two parallel searches were 
conducted to find applicants: one 
for candidates inside the Univer
sity, another for outside possi
bilities.
The search began in earnest at
the beginning of the fall 1990 se
mester. The committee used ad
vertisements in different educa
tional journals across the country 
to solicit applications. Response 
was enthusiastic. The committee 
received hundreds of resumes 
from interested persons, said 
Morgan.
The committee also tried to 
identify other candidates from 
around the academic community. 
Morgan said that, in particular, 
committee member Marilyn 
Thomas, head of the Music De
partment, concentrated on pos
sible women candidates, and 
committee member Otto Davis,
the W.W. Cooper university pro
fessor of economics and public 
policy, looked into possible black 
candidates.
Initally, a dozen candidates 
from outside the University were 
approached about the position. 
Several of these candidates de
clined immediately; the remain
ing candidates were then invited 
to visit the Carnegie Mellon 
campus. The visits included tours 
of all the research facilities and 
colleges.
While they were here, the can
didates met with [Jordan], other 
senior staff and faculty members, 
Please see PROVOST, page 3
Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy addresses 
the growth of CMU.
See page 9.
, ill  Womens basketball loses to
Susquehanna in the first 
round of NCAA playoffs.
See page 13.
Inside The Tartan examines handi-f> ~ capped access at CMU.
DiversionsPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPLll leasLOC stones The Doorsfeatures.................................LI , , ...poru proves to be an excruciating
n ...................................... romp through the lives, loves,
TTr S ........................... * and drugs of Jim Morrison.
...............................
I. Sasmita/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Freshman music major Alfred 
Duncan plays Amazing Grace at 
the orientation of the Role 
Models Program. See story on 
page L3.
Fire ignites in Donner Hail
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
The residents of Donner Hall 
woke up to a surprise early Sat
urday morning when a burning 
trash can on the first floor of the 
east wing forced an evacuation of 
the building at about 4:30 am.
According to Sargeant Frances 
Russ of Campus Police, it wasnt 
a fire per se, in that the building 
did not catch fire. A trash can 
located between rooms 130 and 
132 caught on fire, and the fire 
department came when the alarm 
was set off. The cause of the fire is
unknown.
No injuries were reported, but 
there was significant water and 
fire damage to the first-floor hall
way carpet, and windows were 
open throughout Donner Hall on 
Saturday to help clear out all of 
the smoke.
MCS freshman Katarina 
Midelfort, a resident of room 132, 
said that when the fire alarm woke 
her up, she assumed it was an
other fire drill. I was very 
surpised and frightened [when I 
learned that there was a real fire 
outside my door], said Midelfort. 
I yelled at my roommate to get
up, and then I ran to the end of the 
hallway and screamed her name 
until she came out. Five firemen 
were looking at me, and Im sure 
they were thinking I was crazy. 
Finallymyroommategotout, and 
we went outside.
First floor resident assistant 
Amy Shalikashvili, a senior math 
major, found one aspect of the fire 
which might have a good effect on 
the residents. I guess itll teach 
people not to ignore fire drills and 
stay in their rooms, said 
Shalikashvili. Other than that, I 
didnt exactly enjoy getting up at 
4:30 in the morning.

---------------------------------------------------

2-reo rluIls k ylusog,o Eonn8s k -- Elume -TTTHIS JUST INK KK
Baker flies to Middle East to discuss regions future
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)Secretary of State 
James A. Baker III Friday conferred with the com
mander of allied troops in the Persian Gulf before 
sounding out Saudi Arabian leaders on prospects 
for peace between the Arabs and Israel.
Baker met for an hour Friday with General H. 
Norman Schwarzkopf, who later told reporters he 
hopes to bring American troops home from the Gulf 
as fast as we possibly can.
;Schwarzkopf added, however, that it may take 
tl)e U.S. a little while longer to get the equipment 
home.
;Baker then held talks over dinner with the Saudi 
foreign minister, Prince Saud, and planned to meet 
later with King Fahd about an Arab plan for a 
permanent security force in the Gulf.
The outline is set, but not the operational details. 
The idea is to guard against the kind of threat to 
Western oil interests posed by Iraqs conquest of 
Kuwait last August.
Bakers trip to the Middle East is based on the 
assumption that the allies victory over Iraq can be 
a springboard to settling the Arab-Israeli dispute.
The Saudis influence, based on their oil wealth 
and control of major Muslim holy sites, could be 
pivotal.
A senior U.S. official said that after helping eject 
Iraqi forces from Kuwait, the Saudis may be ready 
to consider an accommodation with Israel and take 
an active role in defending the Gulf.
In the aftermath of this crisis they are positioned 
to play a greater role, the official said. It would be 
my hope thats what they will conclude that they 
want to do. I hope that they will conclude that.
Last week in Damascus, the Saudis and seven 
other Arab nations agreed that Egyptian and Syr
ian troops should form the core of a permanent 
security force in the Gulf.
President Bush said Wednesday that U. S. air and 
ground forces would hold joint exercises in the area
and that the Arab force would be backed by a 
capable U.S. naval presence.
Flying here from Washington, D.C., Secretary of 
State Baker said Thursday, We are pleased with 
the decisions made in Damascus.
We have said in the past that we think that the 
states in the region should be in the forefront of 
regional security arrangements, he said.
On the peacemaking front, Baker said he hoped 
to inspire some confidence-building measures 
between Israel and the Arab states.
But he declined to identify them, or to give any 
inkling whether the Bush administration has de
vised a new approach to reach its double goal: talks 
between the Arab nations and Israel as well as a 
dialogue between Israel and the Palestinian Arabs 
in the occupied territories.
Baker offered to meet with Palestinians while he 
is in Israel this week. If they want to meet with us 
we are prepared to meet with them, he said.
But he has not requested any meetings, a sgnioj 
U.S. official said.
They are in a state of turmoil in the aftermath of 
their support for Saddam Hussein. In the aftermath of the conflict we dont want in any way to 
exacerbate that, and we dont want to be seen to be 
somehow anointing certain Palestinians, said the 
official.
Baker disclosed, meanwhile, that he would fly tp 
Kuwait City Saturday to meet with Sheik Saad^lAbdullah Al-Sabah, who returned to his liberate!, 
country last Monday. ,tt .0
The visit will follow a meeting in Taif, Saudi 
Arabia, with the ruling emir, Jabir Al-Ahmed AlSabah, whose royal family has ruled the country 
since the 18th century.
The senior U.S. official said Baker would talk to 
the Kuwaiti leaders about holding elections, prob
ably in the near future. He called that a legitimate 
topic.
Economic analysts 
make predictions
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The 
unemployment rate likely will 
rise even further this year as the 
recession drags on for at least a 
couple more months, a panel of 
four economists told the Joint 
Economic Committee.
' Further evidence of the 
economys woes was presented 
Friday morning in the February 
employment report, which 
showed that unemployment rose 
0.3 percentage points in Febru
ary to 6.5 percent, the highest 
jobless rate since March 1987.
The economists  Roger 
Brinner of DRI/McGraw-Hill, 
David Jones of Aubrey G. 
Langston & Co., Geoffrey Moore 
of Columbia University and Ri
chard Rahn of the Chamber of 
Commercetold the committee 
that they expect the unemploy
ment rate for all of 1991 to be 
somewhere between 6.8 percent 
and seven percent, slightly above 
tjhe Bush administrations fore
cast of about a 6.7 percent rate.
^The earliest projection for re
covery from the current recession 
came from Brinner, who fore
casts an upturn sometime this 
spring. Rahn, on the other ex
treme, projects little or no growth 
until the middle of 1992. Moore 
sees a recovery possibly begin
ning before fall, while Jones said 
the slowdown could last into early 
1992.
But the panelists had differing 
suggestions on how the Federal
Reserve Board should fight the 
economic slowdown.
The federal funds and short
term Treasury bill rates should 
be cut another full percentage 
point immediately, Brinner 
said. The inflation-bashing 
ambitions of the Reserve Boards 
hawks must be stifled until this 
economy is clearly out of reces
sion.
Jones, while not offering rec
ommendations, said the Federal 
Reserve Board is currently in a 
holding pattern, adding that 
because of the special nature of 
the current recession, there has 
been little economic impact so 
far from (the Feds recent) eas
ing steps.
The Chamber of Commerces 
Rahn, a regular Fed critic, said 
there is not much the Fed cur
rently can do to improve the 
economic situation, especially 
with respect to the credit crunch. 
Fed policy alone cannot induce 
businesses to invest again, he 
said. A shift in Fed policy is still 
likely to be thwarted by fiscal 
and regulatory policies that also 
are hitting the economy hard, 
he added.
Jones, with the most pessi
mistic view of the economy, said 
he expects a three percent de
crease in the gross national 
product in the first quarter, a 
temporary increase in the second 
quarter and further declines in 
the second half of 1991.
Brady calls for lower interest rates
HARTFORD, Conn. (DJ)  
Treasury Secretary Nicholas 
Brady told reporters here that he 
sees room for lower interest rates.
Brady made the remark after a 
private meeting with Connecti
cut congressional leaders about 
the credit crunch and the state of 
the U.S. economy.
Responding to a reporters 
question about interest rates, 
Brady said, Theres plenty of 
room in the economy for lower 
interest rates. We continue to hope 
that that will be the case. 
Treasury Secretary Brady 
sought to give assurances that
there is great cause for optimism 
regarding the U.S. economy, given 
the end of the Persian Gulf war 
and regulatory changes being 
implemented in Washington, 
during a press conference follow
ing his meeting with Connecticut 
congressional leaders.
Our basic philosophy is that 
its better to light a candle than to 
curse the darkness. The program 
underway is one that will make a 
difference, the treasury secretary 
said.
Sen. Joseph Lieberman(DConn.) said, Mr. Brady has lit 
many candles and we appreciate
that. But we told him even better 
than lighting candles would be if 
you sent some cash. Continued 
jawboning is needed to get banks 
to be bolder, to lend some money 
to people who are creditworthy. 
When told by a reporter that 
Connecticut bankers say the new 
changes in bank regulation wont 
spur them to lend more, Brady 
replied, Im disappointed to hear 
that. I just dont understand it. 
These changes are being made for 
the purpose of common sense. 
Brady said the most common 
complaint he heard in Connecti
cut was that good, sound busi
nesses cant get bank loans. Our 
answer is that thats exactly what 
weve been working on with the. 
regulators.
Brady predicted that the end of 
the Persian Gulf war wont solve 
all our problems, but it will have 
a material effect on consumer 
confidence. Basically, the Ameri
can people are optimistic and so 
am I, he said.
Sen. Christopher Dodd1 (DConn.) said he believed Brady 
would continue to hear all day 
long that capital infusion is nec
essary. My hope is that by the 
end of the day, hell agree..
Kuwait stresses movement toward democracy
KUWAIT CITY (AP)  Kuwaits prime 
minister said martial law might be extended 
beyond three months and indicated parlia
mentary elections would depend on the return 
of political stability.
But Crown Prince Saad Al-Sabah stressed 
Kuwait was on the path toward greater de
mocracy.
He denied some reports that members of 
his ruling Al-Sabah family had organized 
death squads to eliminate political oppo
nents.
The prince told a news conference that he 
ordered a thorough investigation into the 
shooting of Hamad Al-Juan, a former parlia
mentarian and outspoken but moderate ad
vocate of democracy.
Hamad was shot by an unknown assailant 
shortly after the ouster of Iraqi forces from 
Kuwait and is recovering from his wounds.
Circumstances surrounding the shooting 
are still unclear.
The prince also denied reports that large 
numbers of Palestinians had been detained
and some of them beaten and tortured for 
alleged collaboration with Iraqi forces during 
their seven-month occupation of Kuwait.
He said only a very small number were 
being held and would be processed through 
the legal system.
At least 4,000 Palestinian and other sus
pected collaborators have been jailed since 
last Wednesday, when allied forces chased 
Iraqi invaders out of Kuwait, according to 
resistance officials manning three police sta
tions.
It is unclear how much  if any  of this 
violence is linked to the senior ranks of gov
ernment, which arrived Monday from exile in 
Saudi Arabia.
The countrys ruler, Sheik Jabir Al-Sabah, 
has yet to return.
The crown prince reiterated promises by 
the emir to increase and deepen peoples 
participation in political life and restore the 
1962 constitution which provides for a parlia
ment.
The body was suspended in 1986 after criti
cizing the government.
The Kuwaiti government said it is trying to 
restore its war-wrecked economy.
Kuwaiti money will be reintroduced in two 
to three weeks, replacing now worthless money 
issued by the Iraqis.
A few oil wells will be back in operation 
shortly, although the restoration of Kuwaits 
oil fields set alight by Iraqi forces wilhbe a 
long-term operation.
The prince said a government committee 
was studying what amount Kuwait should 
ask of Iraq for reparations. He demanded that 
Baghdad return treasures pilfered from the 
National Museum and books from city librarSO,p gCsO5p RVTC3Opf 
Dow Jones, Inc.
rofVT3 gf 
Rick Quinn
Celebrate Traditiona BalfourClass Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime, when 
theyre preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. 
Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation 
and custom school designs can all be captured in 
your Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1931!
Select yours at:
Thursday, March 14 
10 am - 4 pm 
Baker Hall
Friday, March 15 
10 am -4 pm 
Carnegie Shoppe
Balfour No one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

reo rluIls k ylusog,o Eonn8s k -- Elume -TT-3
yEw cFs,8u 1,s9 tlih 
dary 9me8nlu9e,H
By MICHAEL COLAIANNE
Tartan Staffwriter
^arcia Bauer, a Carnegie Mel)0lv,junior chemical engineering 
major, has been awarded the 
Captain Winifred Q. Collins 
AWard, a prestigious scholarship 
awarded to five female students 
annually by the United States 
NavyThe primary criterion is that 
the nominee be a third year fe
male midshipman, and selection 
js!based upon academics, leader
ship, and need.
Its really a great honor, Bauer 
says.
Around 100 people were eli
gible, and it shows how I rank 
against them. But it doesnt show 
how I rank against any of the
guys.
A recommendation from the 
students own unit goes to the 
Chief of Naval Education Train
ing in January. Competition is 
keen, said Bauer.
Bauer had no idea how she 
would fare when she was told 
that she had been nominated, but 
was informed that she had a good
In [Bauers] case, [the award] is 
very well-deserved. 
 Lt. Chris Garigliano, 
assistant professor of navigation
Committee narrows list
PROVOST, from page i
and at least the dean and one 
other representative from each 
college, said Morgan. The 
candidates were also inter
viewed by the committee. After 
this process was complete, the 
group was narrowed to a list of 
four candidates.
The search for candidates in
side the University proceeded 
along a similar line. A memo was 
sent to all faculty members in 
December, asking for recommen
dations for the job.
In addition, a list of all tenured 
faculty was evaluated for possible 
candidates.
Throughout the following 
weeks, the committee will be 
conducting a similar set of in
terviews with all of the inside 
candidates. After this process 
is completed, the committee will 
prepare its final recommenda
tion to present to Mehrabian, 
said Morgan.
chance.
According to Lt. Chris 
Garigliano, with one of Carnegie 
Mellon Navy ROTCs highest 
QPAs, a chemical engineering 
major, and a high score on the 
Navys physical readiness test, 
Bauer was a likely candidate to 
win the award.
The intent of the scholarship, 
says Garigliano, an assistant pro
fessor of navigation, is to inspire 
female Navy ROTC individuals 
in academics and professional
ism.
He went on to say, In [Bauers] 
case, [the award] is very welldeserved. Bauer, of Clarion, 
Penn., was the only student 
nominated out of five possible 
nominees in Carnegie Mellon's 
ROTC programs.
The scholarship itself is named 
for Navy ROTC graduate Cap
tain Winifred Q. Collins. The 
scholarship grants $1,000 to se
lected students.
The money will go toward my 
room and board, said Bauer, 
since the navy already pays for 
my books, fees, and tuition, be
cause of my NROTC participa
tion.
In addition to academics and 
the navy, Bauer is a sister in 
Carnegie Mellons chapter of the 
Delta Gamma sorority.
After graduation, Bauer will 
have to spend at least four years 
in the Navy; she plans to become 
involved with naval nuclear re
actors in Washington, D.C., as 
part of the Navys nuclear power 
program.
ENTER A NEW DIMENSION OF SIGHT and 
SOUND with THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY!
smO RVSi.O:Econmmi alyJru
WHO:
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY 
ORCHESTRA 
Barbara Yahr, 
conductor
WHEN:
THURSDAY,
MARCH 14,7:30 PM
WHERE:
HEINZ HALL
I ear the music 
you've requested the 
orchestra to play, and 
hear it LIVE, complete 
with:
 Visual effects and 
imagery
 Dramatic readings
 Insights from on-stage 
about the music you're 
going to hear
 A chance to talk back 
to the conductor and 
orchestra
 PLUS,
a post-concert PARTY!
VC 1msLOCps3f p3TOm3pl 5oRTM3f om p3o55 ON SALE NOW !
Tickets for the general public are $10, and go on sale February 28.
CA1L TICKETCHARGE or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office.
Q0Q
Tickets also available on-campus at Pitt (Wm. Pitt Union Ticket Office). 
Carnegie Mellon (Skibo Information Desk). Duquesne (Student Union). 
Point Park (Student Development Office), Chatham (Mellon Bldg.) and 
Robert Morris.
naPee ych 
vtud b'uwvb
SOLD WILL BENEFIT THE
community food ra. bank I MB
IkE PnTSBURGH SYMPHONY/
Lorin Maazel  Music Director
The /V^ Power of Live Music
WIN A STEREO SYSTEM!
Were giving away a Sony MHC 1500 
Mini-Stereo Bookshelf System, courtesy of
Silo
iO2.5 WOVE
Ne pas se pencher dehors! Danger de mort! 
Wildtollwut! Gefhrdeter Bezirk!
Peligro! Alto voltaje!
Failure to understand these warnings 
may be hazardous to your health!
So join us for
Carnegie Mellons
Summer 
Language Programs
Abroad
and learn how to get along in
France, Germany and Spain. 
Brochures and application forms in BH160 
Application Deadline: April 1
Carnegie Mellon 
University
Refreshments will be provided after the lecture
Toward Tomorrows World 1991 Discussion Series
Exploring Socially Conscious Career Decision Making
Perspectives on
International Service
Speakers:
James Goodby: Distinguished Service 
Professor, Program on International Peace 
and Security; Formerly Ambassador to 
Finland
Ronald Spiers: Undersecretary 
General for Political Affairs, United 
Nations; Formerly Ambassador to 
Turkey, Pakistan, and the Bahamas
Date: Wednesday, March 13,1991 
Time: 5:00 pm
Place: Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison 103
* Underwritten by: The Program on International Peace and Security and the World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh
* The Toward Tomorrows World Coalition includes the Career Center, 
Carnegie Mellon Student Pugwash and The School of Urban and Public Affairs 
Career Services and Alumni Relations Offices.
* Additional funding provided by The Student Employment Office, College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences and Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

Oreo rluIls f ylusog,o Eonn8s  11 Elume -TTtMk-o G-s cUOAo ommVTmROp 
hoAsR :Tp 3sRNO3 kCsROp
 Alpha Phi Omega has announced that tickets for the Magic 
Bus will be on sale at the Skibo Information Desk after today. 
Busses leave Friday afternoon, March 22; they return Sunday, 
March 31. Prices are as follows: to New York or Allentown, $50; 
to Philadelphia, King of Prussia, or Harrisburg, $45; to Washing
ton, D.C., $40.
' On Friday, March 22, the A Phi 0 Airport Shuttle leaves from 
noon to 6 pm on the hour from Donner Hall, and 15 minutes 
before the hour from Morewood Gardens.
 Tickets are $5 and are also available at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
bV,oC bVUVCCV,Ep DVCME MOR2
3TCO pOCsOp Omp DOmOpof
_ The Toward Tomorrows World Coalition concludes on Wednes
day with a final discussion featuring Professor James Goodby, a 
Pamegie Mellon Distinguished Service Professor, and Ronald 
Spiers, United Nations Undersecretary General for Political 
Affairs. Both speakers have held numerous positions in the 
government.
The topic will be Perspectives on International Service.
; Goodby said that he plans to discuss the response of Western 
and Eastern Europeans as they look at the Soviet Union in 
disarray.
1 The end of the Cold War doesnt mean the end of security
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
problems, merely different types.... The Cold War had set the 
peace for the last 40 years and caused a bipolar world.
The discussion will take place at 5 pm, on Wednesday in Breed 
Hall, Margaret Morrison 103.
dsp3VCf kCV5OppVC ,sMM MOR3TCO 
Vm 1P8P08VLsO3 COMo3sVmp
Russell Moses, an assistant professor of history, will lecture on 
The Impact of the Gulf War on U.S.-Soviet Relations and the 
Middle East.
The lecture will be at 4:30 pm on Thursday in Breed Hall, 
Margaret Morrison Room 103. Refreshments will be served.
Moses PhD dissertation, completed at the University of Pitts
burgh, concerned U.S. and Soviet relations during the 1981 Iran 
hostage crisis.
His current research interests lie in the evolution of the Soviet 
system and U.S.-Soviet relations  principally in the Third World 
and Persian Gulf areas.
tu7'b oR9TsCOp mO, moUO
Academic Computing and Instructional Technology has 
changed its name. The department will now be known as Aca
demic Computing and Media. The old name was a transitional 
one to avoid confusion when Academic Computing and Instruc
tional Technology merged one year ago, said AC&M Director 
Joan Mitchell. Since then, the department has grown; its new 
name expresses the breadth of its services.
xTs3- yOpmsN kVC3Cos3 COUosmp 
UsppsmA 5CVU 8NsgV MVggf
The oil portrait of astronaut Judith Resnik, the CarnegieMellon alumna who died in the 1986 space shuttle Challengerj 
explosion, was taken from Skibo months ago and is still misgiftg; 
The painting, depicting her as she appeared in her official NASA 
photograph, was donated to the Carnegie Mellon community1 By 
Resniks sisters in the Alpha Epsilon Phi sorority. Anyone with 
information about the portrait should contact Anne Witchner, 
assistant dean of Student Affairs, x2074, or Renee Pekor, man
ager of Donor Relations, x5139.
uh1 -Vp3p OmOCAf kVMsRf MOR3TCO
Carnegie Mellon will be hosting a program by the Jefferson, 
Energy Foundation on April 22 entitled National Energy RoMey 
and Global Environmental Adaptation. The Foundation, aoonprofit organization concerned with educating people about energy 
issues, has been running a series of 11 nation-wide sessions on 
energy matters.
This Thursday there will be a session originating from Duke 
University entitled Responsible Energy Use: Savings, with Big 
Dividends.
It will be possible to watch it, and ask questions, starting at 
1:30 pm in the Media Classroom located in the Hunt Library 
basement. More details can be obtained from Patti Steranchak in 
Baker Hall 129, or at x2670.
Compiled by 
DAVID LADEK
FALL 1991 REGISTRATION WEEK
(BASED ON FALL 1991 CLASS STATUS, OF COURSE!)
.....,:
trr cbdvy8 sGRADUATES4TH/5TH YR 
SENIORS
JUNIORSSOPHOMORES
66
MONDAY 
APRIL 22
WEDNESDAY 
APRIL 24
FRIDAY . x1l x>i3 
APRIL 26iK y|i!
All students should register during Registration Week if they wish to enroll for Fall 1991. If you wont be returning (for reasons other than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence 
(marked Fall 1991) to the Registrars Office, Warner Hall 201.
All currently-enrolled students will first receive a Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the registration process; review the Bio Update Sheet, make 
corrections and submit the form to the Registrars Office (if there are no changes, keep the form). A Registration/Add/Drop form is enclosed in each Fall 1991 
Schedule of Classes, available at the Skibo Information Desk, outside the CFA Deans Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall.
HOW TO REGISTER>-Pick up a Fall 1991 Schedule of Classes with Registration/Add/Drop (RAD) form inside.
1-Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisors approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not be processed. 
1-Go to the departments teaching the course(s) in which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM.
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD.
Remember that if you are on a wait list for a course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved).
1-Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week, you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a pre-registration prior to Registration Week. Theyll send you instructions if necessary.
THIS MESSAGE BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE REGISTRARS OFFICE!
KOREAN STUDENTS ASSOCIATION 
FOOD SALE
GIM BAP (KOREAN STYLE CALIFORNIA ROLL)
FRIDAY, MARCH 15
11:30 AM to 3:30 PM 
IN SKIBO
funded by Student Activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

reo rluIls k ylusog,o Eonn8s k -- Elume -TT-5
Crime and Incident Report
3/1' THEFT, 2:09 
pm. Campus Police 
received report that 
persons unknown 
removed a long black 
coat from the stage 
a-in the gym 
during a soccer tournament.
3/1 INCIDENT, 5:40 pm. 
While on patrol, an officer noticed 
gazorch beingused on the patio 
0f the Sigma Nu house. The 
gazorch was confiscated after 
police talked with students.
3/1 VANDALISM, 8:42 pm. 
Campus police received a com
plaint that between the hours of 
I2:l'5"am and 8:30 pm persons 
unkinown vandalized one of the 
privacy panels and door located 
jnthe level A bathroom near the
elevator of Doherty Hall. The 
complainant said that the stall 
nearest the window is damaged, 
the door is hanging on one hinge, 
and the panel has a big hole in it.
3/1 NOISE COMPLAINT, 
10:03 pm. Campus Police received 
a complaint about a live concert 
at the Forbes Gallery. The com
plainants said that whenever a 
concert is held in the gallery it is 
very annoying. They said that the 
floors and walls vibrate and items 
have fallen from the desk and 
walls. The concert was being 
sponsored by the Student Activi
ties Board. The complainants 
were assured that the concert 
would be over by 11:30 pm.
3/2 THEFT, 4:16 pm. A caller 
said that unknown persons had
stolen the rear tire off his 21- 
speed mountain bike. The bike 
had been parked and locked in 
the Boss Hall basement at the 
time of the theft.
3/3 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 2:35 am. A caller com
plained that a person was running 
up and down the third floor hall
way of the West Wing screaming 
and banging his head. Upon re
sponding, officers found that the 
mans suitemates had subdued 
him and put him to bed; he was 
asleep upon the officers arrival.
3/3 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS, 
4:18 pm. A Campus Police Officer 
radioed that there were two white 
males lying under a van. The men 
were stopped and identified, and 
taken to Baker Hall 155 to verify
.8F9,sg uoHnlmo9 n8m9 
,s E8uo188M bAr81ou
rVpp V5 Uop3OC NOfp pkTCp kVMsRf R-omAO
LOCKS, from page 1
tants just look to make sure theres 
one key on each peg, said Martin. 
They dont have to check the code 
number on each key. It was two 
days between the last time the 
was used successfully and 
whenthe key didnt work.
The security of the situation 
makes it likely that an RA or desk 
attendant was responsible for the 
theft^Unlike the situation in the 
new dorm, we dont have a time 
where the desk was unmanned, 
said Martin. Its possible that a 
desk attendant had a friend stay
ing at the desk, but for the most 
part, we could not identify a time 
when someone else had access to
the keys.
The re-keying of E-Tower took 
place last week and went better 
than originally planned. The re
keying was scheduled to last to 
the end of the week and possibly 
into the weekend, but was fin
ished on Thursday night, a day 
ahead of schedule.
According to Martin, it became 
a priority. They had other projects, 
but the needs in residence areas 
took over.
Once I was aware that there 
was a security problem, said 
Martin, it took me about a minute 
to make the decision to change 
the locks.
The same was true of the new
their identification. After reach
ing the parents of one of the men, 
they were taken back to meet 
their tour group.
3/3 VANDALISM, 7:35 pm. 
Campus police received a com
plaint that unknown persons had 
littered the first floor lobby of 
GSIA with Crazy String. The mess 
was cleaned up, and officers left 
the scene.
3/3 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT, 
8:28 pm. A caller said that while 
entering Grey Matter he observed 
two males attempting to break 
into a glass display case. The caller 
said that the men left the area 
and proceeded with approxi
mately five other people onto the 
Cut. When police arrived, there 
was no sign of the men. When
police asked the Morewood desk 
clerk, she said that men whose 
description agreed with that of 
the suspects had entered ap
proximately 20 minutes earlier.
3/4 MEDICAL ESCORT, 2:20 
am. A student called campus po
lice and said that he had injured 
his eye. The victim had been us
ing a circular saw to cut lumber, 
and a small piece of wood had 
stuck in his eye. Campus Police 
took him to University Presbyte
rian Hospital.
3/4 BURGLARY, 3:06 am. A 
caller told Campus Police to re
port that there was someone try
ing to break into her room from 
the hallway. When officers re
sponded, they found a man at the 
door. He was identified as a Car
negie Mellon student, and told 
police that his girlfriend lived in 
the room and was out of town. He 
said his room was full so he was 
going to crash there. The man 
was removed from the area.
3/4 CHEMICAL ODOR, 9:05 
pm. A caller reported smelling a 
strong odor in a Biology Lab in 
Mellon Institute. The lab holds 
several experiments. When Police 
responded, they detected the odor 
as well. The room was evacuated, 
and further assessments were 
made. All adjacent labs were 
checked, and the windows were 
opened to vent the room. A later 
check showed no signs of odor in 
the room.
Compiled by 
DAVID LADEK
dorm situation; some people 
seemed to think I was aware [of 
the missing key] six weeks in ad
vance, but I acted as soon as I 
knew things were awry.
Martin feels that the new secu
rity measures will help, but em
phasizes the role of the stu
dents. Were trying to encourage 
students to have their own keys
 not to rely on their roommate 
or others, whether theyre going 
to class, or even if theyre just 
down the hall.
I hope that we wont see much 
inconvenience with the new sys
tem, and it will definitely free us 
from the risk involved with hav
ing master keys out.
Employee
Owned
in major 
U.S. cities
More than 
50 worldwide
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
Woodward-Clyde, an international environmental, 
geotechnical and hazardous waste consulting firm, 
needs entry-level chemical engineers in offices 
nationwide.
Woodward-Clyde offers diversity, variety, and 
challenge.
We have opportunities for chemical engineers to work 
with innovative treatment technologies, such as 
in situ bioremediation, in situ vitrification, 
incineration and ultraviolet oxidation/uv peroxide 
treatment. You will be working with environments 
from contaminated groundwater to military 
munitions and pesticide waste.
Woodward-Clyde is People!
We will be on campus March 19. Please see your 
career services office to arrange an interview. 
j EOE/M/FIH/V ____
Woodward-Clyde
We heard you.
dLTm 8-sm :Csom :THHOMMs hNO bTRNOC
6q40JeJI 6q40J4aY 6q40J4FJ
Kb-sp V55OC sp oLosMogMO VmMf 3V 9ToMs5sO RVMMOAO p3TOm3pl 5oRTM3f om p3o55 3-o3 kTCR-opO ':h 8OMOR3O tRoOUsR 8VMT3sVmp 3-CVTAkoC3sRsko3smA RoUkTp VT3MO3pl ':h a Iee 666046F4 VC ':h tT3-VCsHO Gu ^OoMOCp ROC3s5sO 3V COUoCNO3 
':h 8OMOR3O tRoOUsR 8VMT3sVmpP cCOCp oCO pTgWOR3 3V oLosMogsMs3fP GCsROp oCO pTgWOR3 3V R-omAO om ':h Uof ,s3-Co, 3-O V55OC o3 omf 3sUO ,s3-VT3 ,Cs33Om mV3sROP ':hl GOCpVmoM 8fp3OUB6l G8B6 om hsRCV u-ommOM oCO COAsp3OCO 
3CoOUoCNp V5 'm3OCmo3sVmoM :TpsmOpp hoR-smOp uVCkVCo3sVmP XyVMom sp o COAsp3OCO 3CoOUoCN V5 yVMom uVCkVCo3sVml 18P
" ':h uVCkVCo3sVm aYYa
The ideal computer for college needs certain things. Like a 
mouse, to make it easy to use. Preloaded software, thatll let 
you create impressive papers with graphics and spread
sheets. And great tools, like a notepad, calendar and 
cardfile. It should also be expandable, so it can grow with 
your needs.
The IBM Personal System/2 has all this at a special
student price and affordable loan payments. And on a 
different note, you can get a great low price on the Roland1' 
Desktop Music System that transforms your IBM PS/2 with 
Micro Channel" into an exciting, comprehensive music maker.
The PS/2 is perfect for college because you told us just 
what you needed. And no one knows what it takes to be real 
college material better than you.
IBM "SPRING FLING" MARCH 18th
Skibo Faculty Lounge 5-7 PM 
For more information, contact your IBM Collegiate Representatives:
You asked for 
a computer thats 
college material.
real

---------------------------------------------------

EDEC SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR ritCE STUDENTS WHO NEEDMONEYFORCOLLEGE
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of 
Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income.
 Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, 
career plans, family heritage and place of residence.
 There's money available for students who have been newspaper carriers, 
grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers. . .etc.
 Results GUARANTEED.
9amandST. 1-800-542-5174
We have become very disenchanted ... for all our talk, when it somes to settling down and having an intimate 
relationship, were finding were not capable.
Manis Friedman, interviewed by 
Rolling Stone Magazine
Why are people from Soho to San Francisco 
talking about...
Manis Friedman
Youre invited to come find out for yourself - about yourself.
Intimacy, Privacy & Relationships
Thursday, March 14 
8:30 pm 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Wean Hall 7500
Sponsored by Chabad House on Campus 
For more information, call (412) 683-7770%
Students / Seniors $ 1.00General Admission $2.00
SERI ES
Searching for the Giants Shoulders
Professor Susan Henry
Head of the Biological Sciences Department
Monday, March 18, 1991 
4:30-5:30 pm 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs
Carnegie Mellon Fifth Year Scholars Program
1991-92 and 1992-93 Selection Process
The new Fifth Year Scholars program offers an opportunity for exceptional 
students who have contributed in outstanding ways to the academic and 
non-academic life of the University to remain here  with free tuition and a 
stipend for living expenses  for one full year following the completion of 
their normal courses of study. This will allow the students to extend their 
undergraduate studies, likely into an entirely new area of focus, while 
continuing their contribution to the campus community.
Normally, the selection of Scholars will occur during the junior year (or 
fourth year for architecture). Any student on schedule to complete his or her 
degree requirements in May of 1992 may now apply to be a Scholar for 
9293. We will choose up to ten Scholars or two per college for 9293. 
In addition, for this first year, any student who is on schedule to complete 
his or her degree requirements this May may apply now to be a Scholar for 
the 1991-92 year. We will choose as many as five Scholars, one per college, 
for 9192.
Please note that in order to apply you must be on track to complete your 
degree requirements prior to becoming a Fifth Year Scholar. No student will 
formally enter the Fifth Year without having completed the degree 
requirements for his or her original degree.
Applications are now available in the office of the Dean of Student Affairs, 
Warner Hall 206. Any questions about the program may be directed to Katie 
Stannard, assistant to the dean, at x2076.
Greek Council Presents 
Greek Sing 1991
March 15 
7 pm
at "ie Pittsburgh Soldiers & Sailors Memorial
(Fifth Ave. at Bigelow Blvd.)
GREEK
Tickets are $6.50 in advance at the Skibo Info Desk or $7.50 
at the door the night of the show.
All Proceeds Benefit the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute

---------------------------------------------------

HARD WORK - LOW PAY - LONG HOURS
ELECTRONIC, MECHANICAL DESIGN & PRODUCTION 
INTERESTING, VARIED, MAY PAY WELL IN 1991-2 
Small startup company. Chris Horwitz, 412-521-9031
make it your...BUSINESS
The Tartan business staff needs:
 Business Assistants
 Advertising Representatives
This is great real-life experience for 
anyone interested in finance, economics, 
marketing, or sales.
If you are interested, contact Beth Moses 
at The Tartan in Skibo room 50, x2111.
Student Organization 
Office Space Available
One small student office is 
available on the ground floor of 
Skibo. If your organization is 
interested in obtaining this space 
please stop at the Information Desk 
and pick up an application form. 
Completed applications are due by 
Friday, March 15 and should be 
turned in at the Information Desk, 
Atm: Bonnie Gorman.
If you dont register 
with Selective Service, you might 
make the wrong impression.
(Chitin'tut
Weekend Bitffrt 
All you can eat only $6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9:00 
p.m.
Sunday 12:00-3:00 p.m.
China Inn Restaurant
For take out call:
621-6199 
* M
Daily Lunch Special
one entree over rice 
with chefs special soup 
and served with tea 
and fortune cookie 
only  $3.79
4609 uOm3CO tLOPl
SP coNMomB8-ofpsO tCOo 
$oRCVpp 5CVU zsom3 voAMOj
Want to feel this great about your first job?
tmo uCTH zVmHoMOH 
tRRVTm3 hoCNO3smA 
yOkCOpOm3o3sLO
s Exciting opportunities exist at IBM!
IBM is recruiting Summer 
Intern Candidates for openings in 
Programming and Engineering.
Meet with IBM Managers at our Career Information Day
Thursday, March 14 
Skibo Ballroom 12 noon-5pm
There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by 
anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies of your data 
sheet/resume and transcript, if available. Dress is casual.
Lets be 
blunt. If youre a 
man, youve got 
to register with 
Selective Service 
within a month of 
turning 18. If you 
dont, youre 
breaking the law.
TOSHIBA
Laptops
EXTRA Special Prices 
c1y vSb'yv 8bcuw 
LIMITED TIME ONLY!!!
UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
^8yl 'Su
Call 800-875-0037
'8t 7 ht8bvyuty^ tRROk3O
xV-m DP DOgp3OC 
c8B6 uVUUTmsRo3sVmp 
homoAOC(^OLOMVkUOm3
83OLO uHoUORNs 
8OmsVC 8fp3OUp 
vmAsmOOC
tm O9ToM VkkVC3Tms3f OUkMVfOC
Sick of Filing Papers?
Can't Stand Answering the Phone?
CSW MAY HAVE THE JOB FOR 
YOU!
Applications Available in BH140B
tkkMsRo3sVmp oCO gOsmA oRROk3O 5VC uVUkT3smA 8NsMMp DVCNp-Vk bt kVps3sVmp 5VC 3-O 5oMM aYYa pOUOp3OCP tkkMsRom3p 
p-VTM kVppOpp O/ROMMOm3 RVUUTmsRo3sVm pNsMMp om OmWVf ,VCNsmA ,s3- kOVkMOP wmV,MOAO V5 tmCO, om 3-O
hoRsm3Vpsp CO9TsCOP
tkkMsRo3sVmp oCO oLosMogMO sm :daJe: om UTp3 gO RVUkMO3O gf hoCRaFlaYYaP t Uomo3VCf sm3CVTR3VCf UOO3smA 
5VC oMM okkMsRom3p ,sMM gO -OM Vm 8Tmofl hoCRa4 5CVU q&ee0J&qe kU sm 3-O toUpVm DsmAP 'm3OCLsO,p ,sMM gO -OM
3-O ,OON V5 hoCRaIP

---------------------------------------------------

FORtIM
Campus cripples opportunity
ov\ /
*trt vA
0 SOPPED
To bo ? ! Vol
>W\UoVM UV'-
Letters to the Editor
Take a look around this campus, 
and try to spot a single student 
confined to a wheelchair. You 
vvont, because there arent any.
^Next, note the steep ramps in
stalled on the outside sidewalks, 
the heavy doors in the academic 
buildings and residence halls, and 
the lack of convenient elevators, 
and in many cases, elevators at 
all, in these buildings.
jThere may be a connection  
Carnegie Mellons inadequacies 
may prevent prospective students 
fi-om attending this university, 
simply because they cant get 
around.
iHaving sent a reporter out in a 
wheelchair for four days to assess 
the state of affairs, were convinced 
that this campus represents a 
rrlajor inconvenience to handi
capped students, faculty, and staff.
:Until the Americans with Dis
abilities Act takes effect on July 
26,1992, CMU is required to com
ply with the mandates of the Re
habilitation Act of 1973. Everett 
Tamedy, director of Equal Oppor
tunity Programs, asserts that it 
does.
Compliance with federal acts is 
one thing  actually bringing 
handicapped accessibility to an 
acceptable level is another. Right 
now, they are not the same thing. 
Unfortunately, the stipulations in 
the new act are so ambiguous, 
that universities can comply with 
the mandates without actually 
achieving adequate accessibility 
on campus.
CMU has an obligation, acts or 
no acts, to make this campus liv
able for handicapped students, 
faculty, and staff.
The move to unite the CMU 
Housing Office and the Residence 
Life Program with the Division of 
Student Affairs, announced 
Thursday by Vice President for 
Enrollment William Elliott, is a 
good one.
It is an especially good move if 
Student Affairs and Housing fol
low through on plans mentioned 
by Elliott in his memo: The time 
is right to further integrate stu
dent services and to continue 
building a campus community 
which more fully complements the 
academic reputation [of] CMU.
If the administration really 
wants to bolster the quality of 
student life, of which residence 
life is a major component, it has 
taken the first step in the right 
direction  increasing the lead
ership base in that area.
Dean Michael Murphy, through 
his student-developmental ap
proach, has already made major 
strides in the first year of his job 
at Student Affairs. Placing 
Housing under his wing is an ex
cellent approach to improving the 
quality of student life.
While Murphy takes care of the 
people in the residence halls, its 
important that the residence halls 
themselves still receive attention. 
The residents satisfaction still 
depends on the nuts and bolts of 
Housing  the little things. This 
is where Director of Housing Tony 
Martin comes in.
When Martin arrived on the 
scene in the early 80s, he inher
ited a housing system riddled with 
physical plant difficulties. Over 
the past decade, he has eliminated 
many of the problems. However, 
irksome problems that are inconThe University cant correct the 
problems inherent in the hilly 
nature of Pittsburghs topography; 
however, smaller, more subtle 
changes in the current structure 
as well as advance planning can 
eliminate some of the headaches.
Adding more practical ramps is 
the first step. Right now, ramps 
on campus are few, and many are 
too steep to be practical for use by 
the handicapped  the suicide 
ramps outside Wean Hall, for 
example.
More manageable doors at the 
entrances to academic buildings 
and residence halls are necessary. 
Even people on foot experience a 
mild inconvenience when dealing 
with the heavy doors like the ones 
to Hunt Library and Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall. That in
convenience is magnified tenfold 
for handicapped people, due to 
leverage problems.
The small number of elevators 
on campus is also insufficient. 
Plans for future construction 
should definitely include acces
sible, convenient elevators.
Current administrators should 
not shoulder all the blame for the 
current problems  they werent 
here when the buildings were 
built. But this administration and 
future ones can make contribu
tions, by avoiding further mis
takes, e.g. making sure the 
planned University Center is ac
cessible to handicapped people.
Educational opportunity is not 
just a matter of academics  its 
also a matter of providing an ac
cessible campus for all students 
who want to attend Carnegie 
Mellon.
veniences to residents still remain. 
In the midst of Housings hierar
chical relocation, we would like to 
suggest some improvements:
Hot water  Residents in 
Donner Hall and Mudge House 
have complained of hot water 
difficulties. In the case of Donner, 
the problems usually stem from a 
few people showering at once.
Elevators  The Morewood 
Gardens D-Tower and the Resnik 
elevators need work. D-Towers is 
basically in a shambles, as well as 
covered with graffiti. The ceiling 
panels in the Resnik elevator have 
fallen off. In addition, the whole 
elevator shakes unreasonably.
Water fountains  Of the 
ones that remain, very few simply 
work.
Laundry  Although main
tenance of laundry rooms is 
Laundry Services responsibility, 
doing laundry is a part of resi
dence life. Machines often eat to
kens and dryers work slowly, 
causing students to use more to
kens per load. The Morewood, 
Donner, and Margaret Morrison 
facilities could all use more ma
chines, as there is usually mas
sive demand for the few machines 
at these locations.
Keys  Hang onto them. Asa 
result of the loss of the master 
keys to Morewood E-Tower, which 
follows closely on the heels of a 
similar incident in the new dorm, 
Housingis now removing the keys 
from the custody of the desk at
tendants  a good idea.
Housings move to Student Af
fairs seems like a good idea. In the 
fall, we hope the combined efforts 
of Murphy, Martin, and their staffs 
will prove us right.
Greek Sing funding 
benefits entire
Editor:
Occasionally an ar
ticle appears in The 
Tartan which bla
tantly misses the point 
ofthe issue it concerns.
When such misunderstanding appears 
in a Tartan editorial, a response is war
ranted [Keep Activities Fee where it 
belongs  not with charities, 2/25].
In this article, the editors offer the 
opinion that Greek Sing should not be 
funded because item 14 in the Senate 
Fiscal Policy  Events which donate 
their proceeds to charity will not be 
funded by the Activities Fee  is more 
important than item 23  The F&R 
committee can override the fiscalpolicy 
with a 2/3 vote.
Such an opinion can only result from a 
blatant misinterpretation of the fiscal 
policy itself, the purpose of the Activities 
Fee, and Greek Sing.
There is a big difference between events 
like canning and carnation sales, which 
directly fund charities, and events such 
as Greek Sing, which provide entertain
ment or services to the entire campus in 
the process of raising money for charity. 
While item 14 of the Senate fiscal policy 
does not make this distinction in letter, 
one must certainly see that the differ
ence is there in spirit. Hence the purpose 
of item 23.
Greek Sing is attended by many 
members of the University community, 
Greek and non-Greek, and is one of the 
most popular campus events of the year. 
It provides direct entertainment and 
benefit to the people who perform the 
shows and those who attend them. What 
type of event would be better supported 
by the Activities Fee?
Much of the confusion surrounding the 
Activities Fee has resulted from a mis
understanding of this very point. The 
Tartan is accurate in that when [stu
dents or their parents] make out a check 
every semester for their Activities Fee, 
[they] expect to see their money used on 
campus. But in the past, too many 
people, from The Tartans staff to the 
senators themselves, have become so 
concerned with following the fiscal policy 
to a T that many students see very 
little benefit from their $40/$50. Senate 
should not act as a campus Robin Hood, 
taking from the majority and giving to 
the minority.
The crux ofthe issue is this: The major
ity of the funds from the Activities Fee 
should be distributed where the most 
members of this campus will feel the 
benefits.
Apparently Senate is finally starting 
to realize this point, as seen in their 
decisions to fund Mr. Fraternity and 
Greek Sing. These events provide direct 
benefits to a sizeable portion of the Uni
versity community.
It is true that Greek Sing has always 
happened without Senate funding. That 
does not mean Greek Sing should never 
be funded. When inevitable increases 
occur in the costs of producing the event, 
who should bear the brunt of those costs? 
The fraternities and sororities who al
ready put hundreds of dollars into the 
event for rentals, costumes, sets, offcampus practice halls, etc? Or perhaps 
the ticket prices should be raised to a 
level unfair to the students who choose
to attend.
Not in this case. The Activities Fee 
increase is best served by distributing it 
to just such an event and helping defray 
the costs  and not just add to the 
revenues  of an extremely popular 
campus event.
David Willis
Senior, Mechanical Engineering
Sexism stomps feelings 
of female IM player
Editor:
Recently, I was the 
victim of blatant 
sexual prejudice here Ltt6r tO 
at CMU. It didnt come -|^0 =jjjtOiT 
from a professor or a 
prospective employer  it came from 
students: my peers, my friends.
Considering the ratio here at Carnegie 
Mellon, nearly all my friends are men. 
When they were organizing an intra
mural basketball team, I asked if I could 
play. While several of the guys wanted 
me to play, two outspoken members  
one of whom was the coach  decided I 
couldnt be on their team. Theyve never 
seen me play, so skill level couldnt have 
been their reason.
No further explanation was offered to 
me, and upon further inquiry into their 
reasoning I was told point blank that I 
could be on the team if I had sex with one  
or both of them. Although it was in
tended as a joke, the disrespect heaped 
on top of their sexism was humiliating, 
insulting, and repulsive.
Needless to say, they probably wont 
speak to me after this letter goes to print. 
But the reality of the situation really 
distressed me: My peers were evaluating 
me solely on the basis of my sex  in a 
prohibitive way. And the next time I 
hear how far the cause of equal rights 
has advanced, Ill have to cringe, know
ing what I know first hand.
Name withheld upon request
Senator steps down from 
office, urges involvement
Editor:
With great regret, I 
must announce that as 
of the end of the next 
meeting, I am stepping 
down from the office of 
Student Senator for academic reasons.
This was a difficult decision to make, 
as I feel Senate can be a very strong 
positive force at Carnegie Mellon and is 
well worth putting time and energy into. 
But I feel encouraged by the directions I 
see Senate taking, both in the people 
who have been elected and the issues 
and problems they are taking up. Senate 
has also become somewhat more con
tentious than it was last semester. This 
is also a good sign, a sign that Senators 
are thinking about what Senate should 
and should not stand for.
I regret that maintaining the Stu
dent has overwhelmed the Senator in 
my case. But I encourage the members of 
the campus community to become in
volved with the student government by 
running for office, by serving on one of 
the many committees that ask for stu
dents, by taking an interest the candi
dates for offices and voting in student 
elections, and by bringing the ideas and 
suggestions you have to the student 
government and to the officers you have 
elected.
Michael A. Gelman
Junior, Math and Computer Science
Womens basketball 
team scores with alumna
Editor:
On behalf of the 1991 
UAA womens basket
ball champions, I 
thank all those who 
showed their support 
for the team this past season.
Great strides have been made in the 
caliber of the program since head coach 
Gerri Seidl arrived in the fall of 1984.
The program is gaining national rec
ognition for the University and its been 
nothing less than a total team effort. 
From the loyal following of faculty, staff, 
and students to the administrations 
commitment; from the Pep Band to The 
Tartans increasing coverage; from the 
players to their families  its been a 
team effort.
A special thanks to President Mehrabian, Bill Elliott, and Michael Murphy 
for the personal send-off before the 
N.C.A.A. playoff game against 
Susquehana University.
Lisa Lightner 
Alumna, 89
ROTCs understand 
obligation to country
Editor:
The freedom to ex
press an opinion is one 
of the fundamental rO33OC 3V 
rights upon which this -J||0 Editor 
country was built. I 
would encourage people to use it, espe
cially in times of crisis. Public expressions 
should, however, be made in a respon
sible, informed manner. Someone of Pro
fessor Wolfensteins stature should be 
aware of this; sadly, his awareness is 
sorely lacking. His letter [University must 
meet obligation to ROTCs, 2/25] was 
written in total ignorance of what ROTC 
is. As a graduate student, I am able to 
differentiate between propaganda and le
gitimate training and teaching. Incoming 
freshmen are also advanced enough to 
know the difference. The courses required 
in Air Force ROTC teach cadets about the 
history, functions, and structure of the 
American military, about leadership and 
management and their applications in 
civilian as well as military life, and how 
national security forces of the U.S. are 
employed. Within these courses, we learn 
about ethics, military law, constraints on 
the use of force, and other things that will 
help us throughout our careers.
What emerges from ROTC are profes
sional officers, ready and willing to serve 
this country. We are not automatons taught 
to follow blindly. We come into ROTC with 
our eyes open, knowing what is expected 
of us from day one. The notion put forth by 
Professor Wolfenstein that cadets and 
midshipmen are having second thoughts 
about their commitments has no basis in 
fact. As one who is in ROTC, I can say this 
Please see LETTERS, page 12
83TOm3 t55osCp Rom gVVp3 dVTpsmA
campus
TteTtnin0 EdUOr SMtelfallSO
rO33OC 3V 
3-O vs3VC
rO33OC 3V 
3-O vs3VC
UUcrtolho Editor
rO33OC 3V 
3-O vs3VC

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991a
CMU: Our growth has just begun
Michael C. Murphy
I have been asked to write about 
imposant stuff, the big picture, 
the whole nine yards. I have been 
the dean of students, as of this 
nionth, officially, for one year. 
When I was first being considered 
for the deanship, I mentioned to a 
close friend of mine, a professor at 
another university, that I was con
cerned I might be considered 
underqualified for the position. She 
expressed her surprise that one 
could be underqualified to be a 
dean.
We dont talk as much anymore.
I am a long way from having 
anything close to the big picture, 
but I do have a thought or two 
about our University community.
In my nine years here, I have 
been taken, as many of us have, 
by the extraordinary energy and 
motivationand abilityof the 
men and women on this campus. 
The talent and determination of 
our students, faculty, and staff 
rivals that of any institution in
the country. Our academic repu
tation and professional accom
plishments continue to grow 
seemingly without bounds. We 
indeed have a great deal of which 
to be proud.
Increasingly, our focus has been 
on the full community within the 
University. We have seen strides 
in the enhancement of the quality 
of our lives outside the academic 
and professional arena. This is no 
doubt one of the most exciting 
areas for growth in the Univer
sity over the years to come.
As we look ahead, we need to 
set our sights high and recognize 
that we have within this commu
nity not only exceptional intellec
tual and professional talent, but 
personal, social, and emotional 
strengths as well.
We have the ability  the gifts
 to build a campus community 
that will be a model for others and 
provide a strong foundation for 
our future.
When I first came to CMU, a 
notion was occasionally proffered 
that our faculty were only inter
ested in research and our students 
only in professional training.
While it was no doubt as untrue 
then as it is now, there is a grow
ing awareness of the multi-dimensional interests and abilities 
of those throughout the campus.
An increasing number of stu
dent organizations, greater faculty-student interaction, en
hanced teamwork on metacurricular issues, and some exciting 
new programmatic initiatives in 
the colleges and throughout the 
University have all contributed 
to the fuller development of our 
community over recent years.
I see continued growth in this 
regard as essential for us to meet 
our goals for the campus in the 
1990s. Perhaps we will succeed, 
as Peter Stearns has suggested, 
in making CMU a messier place.
As we move forward, we will 
need to work hard, stay together, 
and stay focused. We will need to 
make every challenge that faces 
one of us a challenge that is im
portant to all of us. We all recog
nize that we face the same 
struggles and perils as the rest of 
the world  we are not immune 
to alcohol and drug use, harass
ment, racism, ethnicism, sexual
boC3om 5sMO k-V3V 
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy.
assault, and homophobia. We 
must join together to address 
these and similar issues in a 
meaningful and concerted way.
Our strength lies in the nature of 
our alliances. We should commit 
ourselves to expanding these alli
ances and to looking for opportuni
ties to apply our talents for the
benefit of others.
There is perhaps no more im
portant issue for men than the 
rights and freedoms of women; 
for non-African Americans than 
the rights and freedoms of Afri
can Americans; for heterosexuals 
than the rights and freedoms of 
gays, lesbians, and bisexuals; for 
any individual than the rights 
and freedoms of others.
We will meet this challenge and 
move well beyond it. We are not 
solely about ensuring the mainte
nance of rights and freedoms, 
though a necessary and difficult 
task. We are about stimulating 
growth, realizing potential, and 
reaching new heights as indi
viduals and as a University.
Making the concerns of others 
our own will be at the foundation of 
our Carnegie Mellon family. Hav
ing the esteem and vigor to inter
act freely and share in the lives of 
our fellow men and women on the 
campus  to contribute to their 
lives as we allow them to contrib
ute to ours  will be our legacy.
Michael C. Murphy is the dean 
of Student Affairs.
tree
Speech.
If youre an off-campus student,get the AJST Calling Card and your first call is free.
Theres no better time to speak your mind.
Because now when you get your free AT&T Calling Card, youll 
get your first 15-minute call freet
With your AT&T Calling Card, you can call 
from almost anywhere to anywhere. And you 
can keep your card, even if you move and get 
a new phone number 
. m .in v.j our Calling Card is part of the AT&T
Student Saver Plus program, a whole package of products and services 
designed to make a students budget go farther.
So look for/ffiST Calling Card applications on campus.
Or call us at 1800 525-7955, Ext. 655.
And let freedom ring.
Al&f. Helping make college life a little easier.
 t nqPee LoMTO 5VC o RVop303V0RVop3 uoMMsmA uoC RoMMP tkkMsOp 3V RTp3VUOC0soMO RoMMp UoO TCsmA 3-O tb7b SsA-3B 
DOONOm RoMMsmA kOCsVl aakU 3V IoUl 8Tmof 3-CVTAb-TCpof om aakU Csof 3-CVTAFkU 8TmofP )VT Uof COROsLO 
UV3O VC MOpp RoMMsmA 3sUO OkOmsmA Vm ,-OCO om ,-Om fVT RoMMP tkkMsRo3sVmp UTp3 gO COROsLO gf ^OROUgOC qalaYYaP
AT&TThe right choice.
THE TARTAN
uoCmOAsO 'MOMMVmEp 83TOm3 SO,pkokOC 
8smRO aYe_
vs3VC0sm0u-sO5PPPPPPPPPPPPwo3sO uTMgOC3pVm
homoAsmA vs3VC PPPPSsRVMO :CVRNUomm 
:TpsmOpp homoAOCPPPPPP:O3- tP hVpOp
SO,p vs3VCPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP^oLs roON
VCTU vs3VCPPPPPPPPP^omsOM O zComkCO
8kVC3p vs3VCPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPtMsU yof
Oo3TCOp vs3VCPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPtPxP ^TCoHHs
^sLOCpsVmp vs3VCPPPPPPPPPP83Ok-Om zMsRNOC
uoMOmoC vs3VC PPP8oUom3-o wVppUom
hoAoHsmO vs3VCPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPtMspVm zCOOm
^VppsOC rs3OCoCf vs3VC xoRN 8sMgOC3
^VppsOC ^OpsAm vs3VC PPPPu-Csp 8-sOMp
tC3 vs3VCPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPxV-m rsm
^oCNCVVU homoAOCPPPPPxOmms5OC toUp
GCVTR3sVm homoAOCPPPPxOmms5OC VCgOp
uVkf homoAOCPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPdOss dVVLOC
8fp3OUp homoAOCPPPPPPPPPPPPtoU zCVpp
tpp3P SO,p vs3VCPPPPPPPProTCsO DsMNspVm
tpp3P VCTU vs3VCPPPPhoCf wP yVAOCp 
tpp3P 8kVC3p vs3VC PPPxopVm hR^VmoM
tpp3P Oo3TCOp vs3VCpPPPPPPbCTk3s Go3OM
hOAom ^sO3H 
tpp3P ^sLOCpsVmp vs3VCpPPPPbOCCs wopRhoCms :VCON
tpp3P hoAoHsmO vs3VC PPtHMOOmo 8oMMOuVm3CsgT3smA vs3VCp 
8Tpom tgCoUpl wOLsm :oCmOfl ^o,m 
:CVpVmpNsl DsMMsoU :TCNfl zCom3 
uoCUsR-oOMl xopVm ^sAUoml ComN 
^ss3Vl bo ^VRNp3oOCl xoUOp :P 
vmCOp $bVNfVjl ^Tp3sm CoHsOCl ^PtP 
dOmOCpVml xOmms5OC wOCp3Osml ^O/3OCbP 
wVgofop-sl oCCVm DP rOLfl xVmo3-om 
rOLfl b-VUop SsR-VMpl ^Vm GsRNO33l 
dV,f GsOCROl hsR-oOM bP yVpOl DsMMsoU
uP 8ogCoUl 'Amo3sTp 8opUs3ol y-Vmo 
83CTUsmAOC
8OmsVC 83o55 
^omsOM dVMMoml DopOOU dTpposml xoLsOC 
zCsMMV0hoC/ToR-l ysRyVgsmpVml hsNO 
8-oksCVl yomf 1oLRoN
83o55,Cs3OCp 
roTCo toUpl ho33 tMOCl 8THommO 
:oC3MO33l yTpp :OOMl tMMom :VTCsTpl 
'mACs :CVUgOCAl tMspVm uoC3OCl hsR-oOM 
uVMosommOl tmCO, uVpOm3smVl rVCs 
^OUO3OCl xsMM ^OmOLspR-l ^om OCCOMMl 
xTp3smO ^fUVml So3oMsO zOpUVml 
ComRsp hP zVMpgOCCfl hOAom zCOsAl 
xTf zCVppUoml 8oCodoUsM3Vml uVM2
MOOm womOl zOO3T w-omTWol zOVCAsmo 
wVVml ysR-oC w,so3NV,pNsl v rOOl 
woCOm rVAMspRsl ^oLO hoC3sml u-sm c-l 
8-sHTNo c3oNOl hoCN tP yVROpl u-oCMOp 
8ogo3Vpl ^VTA 8RV33l tMom 8MVoml ysR-2
oC 8VmAl |oR-oCf 8Us3- xopVm rOO 
8Us3-l wOMMf 83OCMsmAl bsmo 1CpVl dOo3-OC 
DoMNOCl tP ComNMsm D-OOMOCl yVgOC3 
DfmOC
tC3
vCsR ^oLspl wOm MsRNp3Osml vCsN xOmpOml 
hsNO wsCpR-3l u-sm c-l xO55 ckMsmAOCl 
^oLO GoAomsl GoTMO33o Goml SoVUs 
GOoCpVml xopVm GOM3Hl uOpoC 8omR-OHl 
tUf DOsmOC
uVUsRp
zCOAA :osUOMl tms :CsAApl Msm3 
uCTUkoR-OCl vCsR ^oLspl ^ommf o-pl 
u-Csp Csol ^om zoMMoA-OCl ^oLO wokMol 
tmCO w-CVUVLl ^VTA roUkOCpNsl SOsM 
hRuoC3-fl uCosA hCTpONl GoTM yOOl 
yPxP yTmopl u-oCMOp 8ogo3Vpl hsNO 
8-oksCVl xoRN 8sMgOC3l uMs55VC 8msOCl 
yof 83CVgOMl wP hsR-oOM b-VUopl SsRN 
DoCsAV
G-V3VACok-fB^oCNCVVU 
xopVm :oCp-ofl xoO u-omAl ^oLs 
^VRN3VCl ^om COfl xVpCOOUoml sLON 
zTk3ol dsMMoCf wo-ml 83Ok-Om womAl tT2
ATp3smO wTVl tgO rOLsmOl 8oU 
hop3CVUo33OVl xOppsRo hsMMOCl zTf 
Go9TO33Ol GoTMO33o Goml wsp-VC wP yoV
GCVTR3sVmBrofVT3 
yoR-OM :VTCml tmmO uoUkgOMMl 
83Ok-omsO dVC,s3Hl hOMsppo wsmAUoml 
homsphV-l GomNoW 8P hVfl ysRN 
[Tsmml wsp-VC wP yoVl ^OCON yTgsmV55l 
bsmo 1CpV
uVkf
8Tpom :oNOCl uo3-OCsmO :OMMomRol 
dOo3-OC :CVTl vMMOm dOmCsRNpVml 
rOmmo wfOpl ^omsOM hoC3smOHl vCsNo 
cMpVml u-omo 8omOCp
b-O boC3om sp 3-O p3TOm3 mO,pkokOC V5 uoCm2
OAsO hOMMVm 1msLOCps3fP '3 sp o ,OONMf mO,pkokOC 
kTgMsp-O gf p3TOm3p TCsmA 3-O 5oMM om pkCsmA 
pOUOp3OCpl o3 mV RVp3 3V UOUgOCp V5 3-O 1msLOC2
ps3f RVUUTms3fP '3 sp kCsm3O gf DOp3OCm GOmmpfM2
Lomso GCsm3smAl 'mRP 8TgpRCsk3sVmp oCO oLosMogMO 
5VC 3-O pOUOp3OC VC oRoOUsR fOoCP b-O Os3V2
CsoMp okkOoCsmA o3 3-O gOAsmmsmA V5 3-O VksmsVm 
pOR3sVm oCO 3-O V55sRsoM VksmsVm V5 b-O boC3om 
Os3VCsoM gVoCP uVMTUmp oCO 3-O VksmsVmp V5 
smsLsToM oT3-VCpP rO33OCp 3V 3-O vs3VC oCO 
VksmsVmp V5 oT3-VCp ,-V oCO TpToMMfl gT3 mV3 
mOROppoCsMfl UOUgOCp V5 3-O 1msLOCps3f RVUUT2
ms3fP t MO33OC sm3OmO 5VC kTgMsRo3sVm UTp3 gO 
psAmO om smRMTO 3-O ,Cs3OCp oCOpp om 
k-VmO mTUgOC 5VC LOCs5sRo3sVmP SoUOp ,sMM gO 
,s3--OM TkVm CO9TOp3P b-O boC3om COpOCLOp 3-O 
CsA-3 3V RVmOmpO VC COWOR3 omf MO33OC VC RVMTUmP 
uVkfCsA-3 " aYYa gf b-O boC3omP b-O boC3om 
Os3VCsoM gVoC COpOCLOp 3-O CsA-3 3V ,s3--VM 
5CVU kTgMsRo3sVm omf RVkf s3 OOUp Tm5s3 5VC 
kTgMsRo3sVmP
c55sRO& 8NsgV Fe $Ja6j 6_I06aaa
hosMsmA oCOpp& b-O boC3omB:V/ a4BuoCmOAsO hOMMVm
1msLOCps3fBGs33pgTCA-l Gt aF6aq0qIYe
TmO 'm koC3 gf 3-O tR3sLs3sOp OOP
tMM CsA-3p COpOCLOP
1gCoCf V5 uVmACOpp '88S Ple eIYe0qae4P

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
A PERSON'S
OPNON
America is on the road to nor
malcy after the victory against 
Iraq, CNN is once again includ
ing domestic issues in its cover
age, and Operation Desert MopUp is in full swing.
So, in retrospect, do you 
feel that President Bush 
made the right decision to 
defend Kuwait and involve 
U.S. troops?
Rob Jones 
Junior
Electrical Engineering
Yes. Initially, I was opposed to 
it, but a lot of things were going on 
over there that were wrong. Since 
we are one of the worlds super
powers, it was our duty to step in 
and help out.
Shing-Te Li 
Graduate student 
Physics
Yes, I think so. Because, if you 
do something wrong, you must be 
punished.
Gail Shepard
Professor
English
No. Bush could have given the 
sanctions more time to work. Im 
afraid that the result will be that, 
instead of trying to negotiate in 
the future, our first option will 
always be to invade and use mili
tary force instead of strategy.
Cindy Gordon 
Sixth year senior 
Architecture
<fYes, I agree. Somebody has 
to take the lead. Im glad we 
did.
xVpCOOUomBboC3om G-V3VACok-OC 
Dave Homan 
Junior
Computer Science
In a sense, yes. The U.S. cant 
be at peace for more than 20 
years at a time, so I think it was 
inevitable that wed have a war 
with somebody. Kuwait just 
happened to be the cause that 
most Americans would fall for.
yu8s,9o 9F59 FH pulIous,I,o9 H88unhJ 9Iouo8IhHo9 5os
I wasnt going to write another article 
on sexism, but after reading Elizabeth 
Cronises article in The Student Union, I
 had to  I say I had to because of the 
blatant twisting of situations and the 
hypocrisy underlying it.
I find it funny to hear Cronise say how 
evil sexists are and spouting words of 
moralitynot when she participated in 
the Sexy Body Parts contest every year 
so far.
Here is a woman who took part in an 
act that she virtually condemns in her 
article. I find it hypocritical for her to 
start telling me that Im a sexist when 
she perpetuates sexism herself.
Also, she accuses the campus police of 
 being sexist because they were associat
ing with Theta Xis and trying to get the 
protesters to be quiet. Cronise immedi
ately assumes that the two male police are
Richard Robinson
sexist because they are trying to do their 
jobmake sure there are no problems on 
campus. But trying to get the protesters to 
be quiet was not an act of sexism, it was 
the officers job.
As for associating with Theta Xis, I see 
nothing wrong. It was cold out. The police 
certainly werent being entertained by 
watching a protest, so they talked to other 
people while they were there.
Now, the part of her article that deals 
with me. The most significant thing to 
stick in my mind was not their mastur
bation chant. I wrote my column in sup
port of the protestors. And she talks about
selective hearing.
Secondly, fraternity brothers are not 
carbon copies of one another. Simply be
cause one brother thinks and acts in one 
way does not mean that the others condone 
or agree with it. Wouldnt you expect the 
same relationship with a friend? Thats 
the relationship between brothers.
Sexism is a problem, yes. But fraterni
ties are not the root of it, nor do they, 
overall, promote it. Some members are 
sexist. But that does not, and should not, 
condemn the fraternities as a large, sexist 
organization. I certainly do not expect 
women to, as Cronise wrote, fuck on 
demand, or at least want to fuck a good 
old American patriotic fraternity boy. 
But by stereotyping fraternities, Cronise 
classifies me as such a person.
She did touch on an important topic. 
Rape does occur in some houses. There are
individuals out there who think its cool or 
something. But you cant put down the 
whole fraternity system because of a few 
stupid people. You might as well blame 
the whole male race. Im not really sure 
what can be done about the rapes that 
occur at the fraternities, other than broth
ers and guests being more aware of what 
is going on around them. I wish there was 
a better solution.
Perhaps if people would stop general
izing and stereotyping, the bullshit would 
be cleared away and the problem could 
be looked at without overstressing or 
understressing its importance.
Sexism is a problem. Women arent little 
frail innocent objects  they are intelli
gent, feeling, humanbeings. I have enough 
female friends to know that.
The problem, though, is that nothing is 
solved overnight. Pissing people off does
not change their mind. Attitudes and the 
way people think can only be changed over 
time. Hopefully, sexism will soon become 
a thing of the past. But sexism does work 
both ways.
Women must remember that they cant 
classify all men as evil sexists who would 
rape a woman when given the chance. 
Thats a form of sexism, after all.
Cronise can stir up attention to the 
problems on campus without twisting 
situations to fit what she needs as am
munition. And she should also practice 
what she preaches.
I think enough has been said about the 
actual protest. From now on, I sug 
we dedicate our time to working toward 
a solution.
Richard Robinson is a junior IM ma
jor.
Medias coverage of advertising ethics reeks of hypocrisy
Richard Cohen
Once a year, the federal govem. ment bestows the Malcolm 
. Baldridge award. It is named for 
the late secretary of commerce 
who died in a rodeo accident, and 
it is given to the company that 
exemplifies Americas ability to 
compet .
As anyone who watches TV can 
tell you, Federal Express is one of 
the recent winners. When you ab
solutely, positively have to win 
an award, Federal Express knows 
how to do it.
May I suggest that the govern
ment bestow yet another award? 
We would call it the Joseph R. 
McCarthy Award, named for the 
late Wisconsin senator who was a 
mighty liar.
This award would go to the 
company that has met or exceeded 
McCarthys standards for pre. varication. My candidate for last 
year is American Home Products 
Corp., which makes two identical 
cold remedies and claims that 
each is unique.
The first product, Dristan Si
nus, is featured in a TV commer
cial showing a woman with a 
major headache: Only Dristan 
Sinus combines the leading de
congestant with the modern pain 
reliever ibuprofen.
The Wall Street Journal, 
whence this information is taken, 
then says, Not quite.
The chemicals in Dristan Sinus
are the same as those in the 
companys CoAdvil. In terms of 
chemicals, theyre identical, said 
an American Home Products 
spokeswoman.
To that firm goes the 1990 Jo
seph R. McCarthy Award  with 
oak-leaf cluster.
This takes care of 1990. With 
1991 still young, it may be a bit 
premature to pick this years win
ner, but already theres a strong 
contender: Its Chrysler, which, 
in a commercial starring its 
chairman, Lee Iacocca, boasts 
about how nothing, but nothing, 
stopped the company from put
ting airbags in its vans. Iacocca 
himself does the talking as a group 
of men sit around a large board
room table.
The clear implication is that 
while others  people in his own 
organization?tried to keep him 
from putting air bags in cars, 
Iacocca proceeded anyway, so 
concerned was he about human 
life.
I imagined hearing the strains 
of My Way, sung by Sinatra.
But for years, Iacoccas way was 
to fight air bags. He ridiculed 
them. He said they were danger
ous  so dangerous that he re
peated a story told by a retired 
engineer who had proposed that 
the bag be used for executions.
Im not sure Id want one of 
those gizmos in my car, Iacocca 
wrote in his best-selling autobi
ography.
In fact, whatever gizmo Iacocca 
wanted in his car, its certain he
didnt want an airbag in your car: 
In 1971, while at Ford Motor Co., 
he and Henry Ford II met secretly 
with President Richard Nixon to 
persuade him to kill a regulation 
that would have required air bags 
in all cars.
Back in the 1980s, especially 
toward the end of that decade, 
business ethics became a hot topic. 
Given the shenanigans of some 
Wall Street junk-bond traders and 
the more recent savings-and-loan 
crisis, the concern that business 
had somehow lost its way was 
understandable.
At the same time, American 
voters seemed to become increas
ingly concerned about political 
ethics.
In both cases, the press re
sponded. It not only increased the 
breadth and depth of its business 
coverage  and applied investi
gative techniques to business  
but also turned its attention to 
political advertising.
Thus, some newspapers exam
ined political commercials to see 
if they were true. Every so often, 
they were.
When it comes to commercial 
advertising, though, the press ac
cepts a level of dishonesty it would 
not tolerate in other areas.
Maybe Im naive. But some time 
back when a brokerage firm aired 
a commercial showing grainy 
footage of its founder, I wondered 
if I were looking at the genuine 
article.
I soon got my answer.
The same man shown lecturing
May I suggest that the government 
bestow yet another award? We would 
call it the Joseph R. McCarthy Award, 
named for the late Wisconsin senator 
who was a mighty liar.
his employees on their obligation 
to investors soon appeared in an
other commercial  as a muffler 
installer. How nice, a second ca
reer.
We all accept that advertising, 
like love poetry, entails a certain 
degree of exaggeration and what 
high school English teachers call
the willing suspension of disbe
lief. In other words, we know the 
woman with arthritis doesnt re
ally suffer from it and that those 
manin-thestreet interviews 
are anything but random inquir
ies.
But certain lines should not be 
crossedmaybe the one between
a white he and a bald one.
Absolute honesty, as children 
soon learn, is for children. So I 
can accept that the woman with a 
headache is just an actress pre
tending.
But the word she speaks, espe
cially when she gets specific, I 
tend to accept as the truth. When 
she said Dristan Sinus is unique 
I believed her until I read The Wall 
Street Journal.
Now I know what those pills are 
for. Take two for the pain of being 
fooled  and then make your 
nomination for the Joseph R. 
McCarthy Award.
Richard Cohen is a syndicated 
columnist with the Washington 
Post Writers Group.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
Drug Connection 
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9 pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
Industrial Management & Economics Depts Present
The Spring 1991 Happy@Hour Series - a casual time to hang out 
with fellow students. Drop by for nachos, veggies, and sodas - and 
lots of company!
Date: Thursday, March 14, 1991 r
Time: 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. ,,
Place: Skibo 105-106 (
All IM/Economics Majors and Friends Welcome!
uVVCsmo3O gf 3-O 83TOm3 tLspVCf uVUUs33OOl ^OkoC3UOm3p V5 
'mTp3CsoM homoAOUOm3 om vRVmVUsRpP
FAMILY DENTISTRY - NO EMERGENCIES REFUSED
|WEST PENN DENTAL GROUP|
Oakland Office
Featuring(
Dr. Alex Lowy
( COROm3Mf pOOm Vm 
vLOmsmA hoAoHsmO
3708 FIFTH AVE., SUITE 519
$tRCVpp 5CVU u-sMCOmEp dVpks3oMj 0
yvv vQth tS^ ucS81rbtb'cS D'bd bd'8 t^ $uoMM bVofj
WHITENING  BONDING  WISDOM TEETH*

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 199111
do9Iu,mI,io Muo99 m8Mo p,I9 Huo9,MosIJ s8I 9IFMosI9
...-
Jonathan Levy
When I first heard about the dress code 
proposal before the Pittsburgh Board of 
Public Education, I thought the biggest 
problem with it was that it was a violation 
of students rights to express their views 
on important and controversial issues.
The first point of the three point j pro
posal states, No student shall wear any 
apparel or jewelry that, by words, signs, 
pictures, or combination thereof appear
ing on said clothing or jewelry, advocates 
or promotes sexual activity or violence, or 
the use of alcohol or drugs. The last points 
would permit individual schools to adopt 
more restrictive limits, either by banning 
other types of clothes and accessories or 
requiring students to wear certain clothes.
One would be hard pressed to come up 
with many more important or controver
sial issues than the four mentioned above. 
And forbidding students to advocate or 
promote anything other than the officially 
approved positions on those issues effec
tively kills any debate over them.
But I have come to realize that there is 
another problem reflected in the proposal 
which is far more serious. School Board 
President Barbara Bums, the mother 
and primary advocate of the proposal, is 
out of touch with the schools where her 
proposal would be implemented.
Bums has been quoted as saying that 
she believes students in the public schools 
are behind the proposal. She told me the
same thing in an interview.
If that is the case, how does she explain 
the following statements which two Tar
tan colleagues and I collected from 
Schenley High students last Friday?
Its not right, 17-year-old Stephanie 
Clark.
They shouldnt worry, as long as we 
come, Sharnita Clark, 15.
No one wears stuff like that, not that 
I know, Shannon Lewis, 18.
This is a public school. Its supposed 
to be free, Tam Taylor, 18.
I think its a very bad idea. One of the 
big things about public school is that we 
are all individuals, Johanna Rapp, 17.
I dont see how clothes would promote 
the use of drugs, Amy Hissrich, 16.
We go to public schools so we dont 
have to have a dress code. Its banning 
our right to freedom of expression, 
Shawn Smith, 15.
In fact, none of the approximately 15 to 
20 students we spoke with supported the 
proposal. I dont know where Bums gets 
her information about student opinion, 
but my guess is that its not from students.
Burns seems to be only slightly more 
in tune with the people running the 
schools on a day-to-day basis.
Schenley High Vice Principals Lawrence 
Hubbard and Wilham Jackson agreed that 
the issues addressed in the proposal, es
pecially drugs, are serious ones that need 
to be addressed at their school.
Commenting on certain types of cloth
ing and jewelry, Hubbard said, I think 
that a lot of those things have come to be 
identified with drugs, and, I think there 
should be a statement made that we
xVpCOOUomBboC3om G-V3VACok-OC
Shawn Smith, 15, and Paris Smith, 19, both students at Schenley High, display 
examples of what todays students wear to school.
consider those things undesirable. 
Speaking about certain types of expen
sive shoes, he said The problem is that 
the shoe manufacturers are targeting 
drug dealers.
However, Hubbard and Jackson did not 
think that the school board proposal would 
solve the problem. I really do think that 
its a much bigger problem than just 
slapping hands, Hubbard said. He said 
that an effective solution would have to 
deal with the motivation behind the clothes 
some students wear: the problem of drugs 
in poverty-stricken black communities.
Both men clearly have a far better un
derstanding of what goes on in Pittsburgh
public high schools than Bums has.
Burns cited hypothetical examples of 
what students might wear. Hubbard 
described the $800 8-ball jackets that 
students with drug money to spend have 
taken to wearing.
Bums described what she thought might 
lead to a fight in a school. Jackson pointed 
out a student in a class picture who had 
been shot to death over drugs and knew 
the caliber of the ammunition used.
Hubbard and J ackson know what needs 
to be done to keep order at Schenley High 
without stepping on students rights. 
Burns could not tell me in detail what 
would be banned under her proposal,
even when I presented her with real 
world examples of clothes students might 
want to wear.
Burns told me, We will see tilings s a 
district in maybe a different waj tjian 
individual schools. She is completely 
right, but she has drawn the wrong con
clusion from that fact. If Burns andlthe 
school board see things differently than 
Hubbard and Jackson, Ill put my money 
on Hubbard and Jackson to be righi
Burns also told me, I can assure you 
that the intent... of the board is to leave 
as much as possible at the school level. 
I couldnt agree more with that intent, 
and that is why I oppose a blanket dtess 
code that completely violates it.
Pittsburgh schools already have the 
ability to set dress codes. Schenley has 
one developed by students and staff which 
appears to have been accepted by both. If 
the school board absolutely insists' on 
fixing something that isnt brokeq, it 
should pass the second two pointjs of 
Burns proposal which formalize this 
thus-far informally accepted right of 
schools to set dress codes.
But the first point is ill-thougKfc-out 
and based on the assumption that jSorixs 
can hand down a 58-word rule to the 
entire school system that does more than 
Hubbard, Jackson, and their counter
parts around the city can do on anindividual school basis. That assumption is 
wrong and the system-wide dress code 
should be voted down by the board.
Jonathan Levy is a second year SUP A 
master's student and a 1990 Biology 
Department alumnus.
Just the facts, maam: New world order needs no jargon

Javier Grillo-Marxuach
The new world order is afoot. As 
the combined forces of Kuwait and 
Bechtel set about the task of re
building the war tom nation, the 
collected leaders of this and many 
other nations would have us be
lieve that a true spirit of change is 
blowing across east and west, and 
that the United States, its demons 
of foreign and domestic policy ex
orcised by this last victorious cam
paign, is entering a new era of 
peace and prosperity.
In the spirit of the time, I would 
like to propose a number of mea
sures which might expedite the 
United States ascent into rolemodei stature during the new era.
First and foremost is the abol
ishment of all jargon relating to 
war and combat, both in the media 
and in everyday interaction. The 
worst side effect of the barrage of 
media coverage of the conflict in 
Kuwait has been the adoption of 
Schwarzkopf-ese into everyday 
language, and the last thing hu
manity needs is to get more com
fortable with the modus operandi 
of modem warfare.
The world can do with less the
aters of operations, linkages, stra
tegic retreats, and target-rich en
vironments, particularly when 
these terms are used in reference 
to kitchens, trailer-towing equip
ment, avoiding a homework as
signment, and walking into a 
singles bar.
Another important measure 
which must be taken so that the 
United States may rise once more 
is the complete banishment of the 
factoid.
Who was the brain surgeon who 
came up with the notion that in
stead of making the public more 
intelligent, so that it may under
stand the news, the news itself 
must be pureed into an easily di
gestible concoction which does not 
offend the palate? It amazes me 
that a single factoid such as 
500,000: Number of Body Bags 
Shipped to Saudi Arabia can be 
used to disinform so many people 
 political affiliation notwith
standing  on the subject of the 
killing capacity of the Iraqis and 
the Americans.
If there are truths  or, if your 
world-view rejects the notion of 
tmth, then relevance  to be ex
posed in covering the news, it is not 
to be found in reducing knowledge 
to the lowest common denomina
tor. .
A related motion would see the 
end of any news graphic which can 
be described in less than 10 words.
And the cartoonish illustrations 
which normally accompany news 
graphics would have to be replaced 
with color photographs of what
ever it is that is being described. 
Consider the factoid relating to the 
body bags: Any graph illustrating 
this factoid would have to be ac
companied by a color photograph 
of exactly that which those body 
bags would contain.
Third, in the tradition of all of 
the other stand-up comics in the 
world, the leaders of the new order 
will have to write their own mate
rial. This innovation will have two 
important side-effects: One, world 
leaders will actually have to pon
der the ramifications oftheir policy; 
and two, a much longer period of 
time would elapse before the 
implementation of these policies. 
A possible penalty for violation of 
this statute could be the bleeping 
of all adjectives  with special
I would like to propose a number of 
measures which might expedite the 
United States ascent into role-model 
stature during the new era.
prejudice against the words gal
lant, glorious, and victorious 
from live Presidential addresses, 
or, more fittingly, the replacement 
of all adjectives in said address 
with the statements dead or soon 
to be dead. I am convinced that 
hearing the words my soon-to-bedead Americans would sober up 
an American or two.
A final condition of the new world 
order would be that for every sec
ond the media spends discussing a 
single issue, such as the conflict, 
the aftermath of the conflict, and
the aftermath of the aftermath of 
the conflict, another second be 
spent discussing all of those issues 
which did not miraculously vanish 
in favor of the conflict itself.
If the news apparatus argues 
against this by saying that there 
isnt much to be said about, for 
example, the deficit other than that 
it is there and growing, a possible 
solution to their dilemma could 
simply be to place a deficit clock 
on the screen. The deficit clock
would consist of the exact dollar 
amount of the deficit, with, each 
increase in the amount added to 
the figure as it appears - given 
the cost of fighting this past~war, 
the deficit clock would probably 
receive its own cable channel.
Of course, this model of the new 
world order says little abo$ our 
nations policies. I personalljftiope 
that honesty  on the part of the 
leaders in describing their policies, 
of the media in reporting those 
policies, and of the public reacting 
to themmay change the policies 
themselves. The task of building a 
more honest world is an infinitely 
harder one than that of rebuilding 
a nation, but the rewards are infi
nitely greater.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a se
nior creative writing major.
20% OFF
Binding Service
sm RVMVCpP c55OC okkMsOp 3V 
kVm kOC Lsps3P,s89
the copy center
u-VVpO 5CVU VTC ,sO pOMOR3sVm V5 RVLOC p3fMOp om RVMVCpP c55OC okkMsOp 3V 
oMM 3fkOp om psHOp V5 gsmsmA oLosMogMOP cmO RVTkVm kOC Lsps3P
3710 Forbes
Offer expires in 30 days.
Four Star Pizza 
Welcomes You Back 
With This Fantastic Offer!
A Large Cheese Pizza
WITH ONE TOPPING FREE!
Voll
Only
t^^'b'cStr
bcGG'Sz8
50C each
Fast FREE Delivery
683-0400
Offer Valid 
To Deliveries Made 
To Campus 
Address Only.
c1y 8bty G'||t
Thuhrsdr ady,rMsyc1
8kOmsmA fVTC SUMMER sm Gs33pgTCA-\
DUQUESNES 1991 SUMMER SESSIONS 
OFFER A WIDE RANGE OF:
*TRANSFERABLE COURSES*
*ACCELERATED SESSIONS
*START DATES MAY THRU JULY*
yOAsp3Co3sVm 5VC Lsps3smA p3TOm3p sp Oopf 0 
gf k-VmOl 5o/l UosM VC sm kOCpVm
INTERESTED?
CALL 1-800-283-3853
5VC fVTC RVUkMO3O 
81hhvy aYYa 'Scyhtb'cS Gtuwtzv
schistosomiasis | schoolhouse
Schlumberger
(shlurn . bur. zha)
n. 1. a 5 billion dollar international 
measurement and systems and oilfield 
services company noted for recruiting the 
brightest engineering and scientific 
minds from all over the world. 2. 50,000 
self-motivated, enterprising achievers 
totally committed to excellence. Si^A 
place for self-starters in virtually every 
scientific and engineering discipline to 
launch exceptional careers.
ENGINEERING 
GEOSCIENCES 
APPLIED SCIENCES
PLEASE NOTE: Open to all interes/e students. 
Your attendance at the Information Heeling is a 
prerequisite to our interrieiring process. Please 
attend. Casual attire.
'Scyhtb'cS hvvb'Sz&
^o3O& hoCR6el aYYa 
bsUO& 4&ee kU ( Y&ee kU 
GMoRO& 8NsgV yVVU a6
'Sbvy'vD'Sz&
^o3O& hoCR6al aYYa
GMoRO& u-ORN ,s3- GMoROUOm3 c55sRO
Schlumberger Industries, Schlumberger Technologies tfyid 
Schlumberger Oil field Services are.equal opportunity i 
employers. '
Exceptional People. 
Exceptional Technology. 
Worldwide.
ii put ' pay  caro  h iairier / h bib ' -b hurrh ' d <k-~d u pet ' < , 
be : i ff!-:- 'i h hai / ' i. pii i pie ' ir

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
Symbolic imagery permeates opinions in wars aftermath
While questions of stability in 
the Middle East are nowhere near 
being resolved, the collective me
dia have already begun packing 
up their cameras and note pads in 
preparation for a dry spell of peace
 at least until someone fires off 
; some more shots and people start 
getting killed again.
But despite all th propaganda 
being pumped out by each side, 
the misrepresentations of socalled historical precedents, and 
the unscrupulous fudging of 
numbers, wars are instructive. A 
. war brings out the basic tool of 
education used long before 
Socrates first sat down on a rock 
with a few students: discussion.
While Patriot missiles decimated 
Iraqi Scuds over Tel Aviv, and al
lied forces pushed into Baghdad, 
we were having our own war of 
I words here at home. But as with all 
studies, its a good idea to review 
the material so that the lessons 
learned are not soon forgotten.
Randy L. Udavcak
Thats why, if youll permit me, I 
thought Id play professor and go 
over a lesser-known example I saw 
of how the debate was conducted 
right here on campus.
As I boarded the elevator in 
Morewood Gardens early one 
morning during the height of the 
conflict, I never suspected that I 
was to be greeted with a brief 
editorial. On one of the wooden 
moldings of the elevatpr car, 
someone obviously overcome with 
patriotic zeal the night before had 
scrawled the message Kill 
Saddam in black magic marker. 
This banner of political commen
tary stood for a few days, no doubt 
instructing all those traveling 
between the floors of Morewood 
Gardens of the righteousness of
the U.S. initiative in the Gulf.
Soon after, however, someone 
of slightly less right-wing politi
cal leanings decided that in order 
for the information conveyed to 
reach its full educational poten
tial, it must be balanced by an 
equally convincing argument from 
the other side of the ideological 
fence. With the power of principle 
on his/her side, this spokesperson 
for the peace-activist contingency 
crossed out the word Saddam 
again with a black magic marker
 and replaced it with Bush. In 
so doing, this concerned individual 
was no doubt questioning the U.S. 
role in countering the Iraqi occu
pation of Kuwait by suggesting 
the physical abuse of our com
mander-in-chief.
But lest this debate be limited 
to the partisan opinions of those 
who care, the voice of the ambiva
lent but unrepresented masses 
arose to join in the interlocution. 
This time, the indelible black
marker  by now a standardized 
tool for political commentary  
was wielded to strike out the word 
kill. In its place another verb 
was substituted which in practice 
denigrated the word Bush from 
its former stature as an esteemed 
proper noun, to a lesser position 
of popular slang usage as an ana
tomical reference.
If youll permit a brief digres
sion by your professor, I think we 
must take pains not to neglect the 
accompanying use of symbolic 
imagery here on campus. No, Im 
not referring to yellow ribbons, 
American flags, or even peace in
signias. Im talking about clothes. 
Any fashion designer will tell you 
that ones clothes make a state
ment, and are a reflection of ones 
tastes. I couldnt agree more. The 
Operation Desert Storm 
sweatshirt I saw one student 
wearing made a definite state
ment, and was indeed a reflection 
on the wearer.
Oh, but I see like most instruc
tors at CMU, Im running over 
time. So let me try to summarize 
all this for you in a manner con
sistent with University policy: Ill 
use a numerical example. Cur
rent assessments of allied casual
ties list 79 American, 15 British, 
and 44 Saudi. Various estimates 
have been given as to the number 
of Iraqi casualties; the latest allied 
estimate places them at an un
doubtedly modest 25,000 to 
100,000. Of course none of these 
are accurate, due to uncontrol
lable outliers in the data caused 
by bodies that were ripped apart 
and burned beyond recognition 
as distinct human beings. But 
just for the sake of argument, let 
us take the ultra-conservative es
timate of25,000. Adding all these 
numbers together we get a total 
casualty number of 25,138.
Now well substitute a nice 
round number for the average 
width of a young male from shoul
der to shoulder, say 18 inches. We 
can then project that if all of these 
corpses were laid shoulder to 
shoulder next to each other, they 
would form a fine some 37,707 
feet long, or slightly over seven 
miles. For the sake of reference 
the distance from the sororities to 
PHIa commonly-traveled route
 is approximately three fifths of 
a mile. So if all the corpses were 
laid next to each other from Mar
garet Morrison Avenue and onto 
Forbes along this route, they 
would have to be stacked over 
eleven layers high.
For your homework, then, Ill 
only give you one problem  al
beit a particularly challenging 
one: see if you can get those num
bers to fit into any definition of 
what our military labels a deci
sive victory.
Randy L. Udavcak is a junior 
professional writing I applied his
tory major.
Letters to the Editor
LETTERS, from page 8
with a great deal of confidence  unlike 
the distinguished professor, who has obvi
ously never set foot in an ROTC class. 
Those who do question their commitment 
do not understand the meaning of com
mitment. Granted, some of us may die far 
from home one day, but this is the path we 
have chosen freely.
What we learn in ROTC is as valuable to 
us as citizens as it is to us as warriors. 
Loyalty, integrity, dedication, and disci
pline are valued qualities in any profes
sion. The military is a profession, dedi
cated to deterring aggression, not initiat
ing it. Cadets and midshipmen should be 
allowed to enter their chosen profession in 
the same way that pre-law, pre-med, sci
ence, or other majors enter theirs  free 
from controversy and second-guessing by 
the ignorant.
  Remember this, Professor, each time 
you see someone in uniform on campus..
Cadet Douglas P. Brick
Air Force ROTC Detachment 730
Lecturer responds: 
Check It out yourself 
Editor:
I am writing in re
sponse to a letter by 
Steffany Hannan in 
The Tartan [Alumna 
blasts Womens Center
as
rO33OC 3V 
3-O vs3VC
and its values, 2/25] regarding the CMU 
Womens Center. Ms. Hannan criticizes 
the Womens Center on a number of
 fronts. She says that the Womens Cen<  ter is not a place to go for support and 
friendship, not a place that highlights 
women and their intelligence and 
achievements, but rather it is a bunch 
of insecure lesbian feminists who want to 
see men become spineless wimps and 
women become the dominant power 
(original emphasis), a place with activi- ties that are only about lesbianism, rape, 
how terrible and awful men are, how to 
defend yourself against one, how to be a 
respectable dyke, etc., where insecure, 
angry, sexually confused women sit 
around and bitch about how unlucky 
they are, how victimized they are, that 
men are;horrible creatures that should 
all be maimed and killed....
For someone who wouldnt be seen in 
the Womens Center if it was the last 
place on campus, and who seems to base 
her views about the Womens Center on 
what she Msee(s) through the posters and 
other such crap being displayed on walls 
and in front of the Womens Center, Ms.
- .Hannan claims to know quite a lot about 
r 'the Womens Center and the opinions, 
emotions, and sexual lives of those ini( volved in the Center. I dont know Ms. 
Hannan, but I do know the Womens 
Center rather well. I have been involved 
in the planning and organization of the 
Center since it was initially proposed 
several years ago, and I have been a 
member of the Centers Collective and a 
regular participant in many of its activi
ties since it began in January of 1990. It 
is/clear to me from what Ms. Hannan 
says that she knows very little about the 
Womens Center. She is grossly misin
formed about the Center and presents a 
wholly inaccurate picture of the indi
viduals and activities associated with 
tlie Center.
First, Ms. Hannan is wrong in suggest
ing that the individuals involved in the
Womens Center are a homogeneous lot. 
Among the participants in the Center 
are women and men, undergraduate and 
graduate students, members of the staff, 
faculty and administration, as well as 
alumni. Like the rest of the University, 
they include heterosexual women and 
men, lesbians and gay men, and bisexual 
women and men. And they have rather 
diverse values and interests on intellec
tual, political, and other matters.
Second, the activities of the Center cover 
a wide range of issues. To be sure, there 
are, as there should be, programs ad
dressing rape and lesbian concerns. But 
there are also activities covering many 
topics that Ms. Hannan neglects to men
tion. Among others, these topics include: 
womens health; contraception; safer sex; 
HIV/AIDS; eatingdisorders; accupressure; 
assertiveness training; racism; education; 
career opportunities; and women in rela
tion to science, engineering, dance, art, 
film, music, and poetry.
To the extent that Ms. Hannan gets 
anything right about the Center, it is that 
the Center is a focus of feminist concerns 
and activities on campus. But this calls for 
no apologies. And who would expect oth
erwise? Does Ms. Hannan know of any 
university womens centers that are not 
explicitly or implicitly feminist in their 
outlook and motivation? And, like femi
nists in general, the feminism given voice 
at the Womens Center is an eclectic mix. 
Discussion and debate of alternative 
feminist  and non-feminist  perspec
tives on almost any subject imaginable 
are commonplace in the Center.
Distortions and inaccuracies aside, 
what I find most disturbing about Ms. 
Hannans letter is the homophobia that 
pervades her comments. She refers to 
matters of sexual orientation five times 
into her letter, and each reference sug
gests or presupposes that there is 
something wrong with being a lesbian, 
or something wrong with a womens 
center that welcomes and supports 
women who are lesbians. She also seems 
to assume that one cant be a feminist, at 
least not at the Womens Center, unless 
one is a lesbian, and that one cant be a 
feminist or a lesbian without being a 
man-hater. This says much about Ms. 
Hannans prejudices and anxieties but 
very little about lesbians, feminists, or 
the Womens Center. And, perhaps 
needless to say, given the prevalence of 
views like those expressed by Ms. 
Hannan, the Center wholeheartedly 
supports the rights of lesbians, gay men, 
and bisexuals.
But these charges and complaints are 
familiar and have been expressed many 
times before, well before there was a 
Womens Center, at CMU. There is 
nothing new about equating feminism, 
lesbianism, man-hating, and being emo
tionally out of control. Its been a stockin-trade for attacking outspoken critics 
of sexism for ages: If youre a feminist, 
you cant be a real woman. You must be 
lesbian. You must be a man-hater. If 
youre a feminist, you cant be reasonable, 
much less right about anything. Instead, 
you must be angry, insecure, sexually 
confused, etc. And if, heaven forbid, youre 
a man who accepts or is acceptable to 
feminism, you must be a spineless wimp 
dominated by women.
Contrary to what Ms. Hannan sug
gests, the Womens Center is very much 
a place where women  and for that 
matter, men  can go for support or 
friendship, and, I believe, more than any
place else on campus, a place that high
lights women and their intelligence and 
achievements. And, in light of the over 
twenty-five hundred participants in ac
tivities in, or sponsored or co-sponsored 
by, the Center during its first year of 
operation, quite a few people in the com
munity appear to value what the Center 
offers. The Womens Center is an ener
getic and multifaceted organization, but 
it cant and shouldnt try to be every
thing to everyone. That would be selfdefeating and inconsistent with the val
ues and goals of the Center. So long as 
the problems and conflicts that create 
the need for womens centers persist, 
there will be people who attack such 
centers and perpetuate myths and lies 
about them. If anyone is sincerely in
terested in the work of the Womens 
Center, dont take Ms. Hannans word on 
it. Check it out yourself.
Ernie Alieva
Senior Lecturer in Philosophy
Explore CMUs vast 
resources for your career
aserto the Editor
rO33OC 3V 
3-O vs3VC
Editor:
I wanted to follow up 
on the article about 
Ralph Naders lecture 
[Nader topples image 
of corporate hiring, 2/
18] with suggested resources to empower 
interested students as well as additional 
information about the funders of the pro
gram. Exploring Your Options Outside 
the Corporate World, part one of the 
Toward Tomorrows World Discussion 
Series, brought to light the less visible 
option of social change careers. The re
sources on campus to explore that path 
are likely less visible to students as well.
I would suggest beginning with the 
following four resources that can be found 
in the Career Center Library in 19 
Warner Hall: Good Works: A Guide to 
Careers in Social Change; Community 
Jobs, a monthly vacancy periodical; Greai 
Careers: The Fourth of July Guide to 
Careers, Internships and Volunteer Op
portunities in the Nonprofit Sector, and 
New Careers: A Directory of Jobs and 
Internships in Technology and Society.
These and other relevant resources 
are primarily found on the Education/ 
Service and Public Sector/Law shelves 
of the Career Center Library. The Ca
reer Services reading room/library of the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs is 
another excellent resource.
Regarding sponsorship and funding of 
the program, I wanted to add to the 
February 18 article that there are many 
groups that made the discussion series 
possible in addition to the Toward 
Tomorrows World Coalition which con
sists of the Career Center, Student 
Pugwash, and the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs Career Services and 
Alumni Relations Offices.
In addition to the Nader talk being 
underwritten by the Political Speakers 
Forum Board as noted, the Coalition 
receives general funding support from 
the Student Employment Office, College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences, and 
Student Affairs. Parts of other programs 
in the series are underwritten by the 
World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology for 
Student Pugwash, and the International 
Peace and Security Program.
The coalition is grateful to all these 
groups that helped make socially con
scious career decision making more 
visible to our campus so that future tal
ent can be tapped to improve society.
Karen Litzinger
Chairperson, Toward Tomorrows 
World Coalition
Article source places 
blame at Tartans feet
HRDC urges mutual 
respect, personal dignity
as
rO33OC 3V 
3-O vs3VC
Editor:
I am hoping that 
with this letter, we can 
bring this subject to the 
end. When I read the 
article concerning 
CMUs participation in war research 
[CMU engages in war research, 2/18], 
I was incensed. The article was filled 
with misquotes, partial facts, and simple 
untruths, and all of them had been at
tributed to me.
Part of it was my fault; I assumed that 
Farron Levy had looked up the informa
tion on my project  it is publicly avail
able  but a large part of the blame must 
go to The Tartan. The next week The 
Tartan came out with a story correcting all 
the facts in their story [Carnegie Mellon 
does basic military research, 2/25]. How
ever, I feel that The Tartan refused to 
accept the responsibility for its mistakes.
According to Katie Culbertson, the 
paragraph, Much of the information was 
attributed to an unnamed student and 
was not confirmed by independent 
sources, as it should have been. The 
Tartan regrets any damage caused by its 
inaccurate reporting, is a huge admis
sion of guilt by The Tartan. I agree.
The Tartan admits that it published 
the wrong information, but I feel that The 
Tartan lays the blame on me. I under
stand that The Tartan has a journalistic 
reputation to uphold, but by not taking 
responsibility for its actions, The Tartan 
puts its reputation in great danger. I just 
want to make it clear to the readers of The 
Tartan, who only see The Tartans side of 
things, what the real truth is.
Name withheld upon request
Hannan demonstrates 
bigotry, lacks credibility
asEditor:
In her letter 
[Alumna blasts 
Womens Center and Lttr to
RloMTdOpE 6B6F<E 3-O vs3VCStenany Hannan says,
What I see is a bunch of confused les
bian feminists,..., and, It is a place 
where ... sexually confused women sit 
around ... and bitch about how unlucky 
they are. Lesbianism, in her mind, 
clearly represents a state of despicable 
confusion, and nothing like a natural 
sexual orientation.
Steffany Hannan is a bigot  mali
cious, or just socialized, it doesnt matter 
much. In my mind, that entirely erodes 
her credibility. It also makes it easier to 
understand the curiously venomous edge 
she gave to her complaint. The Womens 
Center is a place for open-minded people, 
and she probably felt alienated.
Erik Altmann 
SCS Grad Student
Editor: ^ Oi
A number of recent 
incidents on the cam
pus have caused great rO33OC 3V 
distress among the EclitOl*
members of the Hu
man Relations Commission. While two 
of these incidents have prompted public 
apologies and at least one has forced a 
debate over free speech, all three compel 
us to examine our sense of community, 
personal dignity, and mutual respect.
The first incident involved the posting 
of a CMU market bulletin for a Filipino 
love slave. The posting was ostensibly 
intended as a joke, though considered by 
many to be a vulgar offense to shared 
campus sensibilities. Regardless of in
tent, the posting potentially had the ef
fect of creating a very negative ethnicist 
and sexist impact.
The second incident involved the 
printing in The Tartan of a comic [Po
litically Correct Universe, 2/4] depicting 
three types of women. The three char
acterizations also had the apparently 
unintended effect of offending a number 
of members of the campus community. 
Furthermore, the comic specifically ref
erenced one student, Jessica Caplan, in 
derogatory terms. Ms. Caplan was not 
personally known by the authors and 
singling her out was an action appar
ently bom out of the knowledge that she 
was involved in an event last year during 
which several national flags were burned. 
The effect of the reference in The Tartan 
waslessone of thoughtful disagreement 
than of personal ridicule.
Finally, a recent letter to the editor in 
The Tartan [Alumna blasts Womens 
Center and its values, 2/25] harshly 
criticized the members of the Carnegie 
Mellon Womens Center and did so in 
very severe and personal terms.
We raise these incidents with full un
derstanding of and support for the pro
tection of free and open expression on 
this campus. We believe that any such 
free and open expression is not inconsis
tent with our equally cherished stan
dard of personal dignity and respect 
within our community. In fact, we be
lieve that personal dignity and respect 
stand at the very core of that free ex
pression. It is clear that we live in a 
larger society which does not provide an 
ideal model for expression without per
sonal insult and in which expressions of 
opinion in the media often carry with 
them an attack on the individual holding 
an opposing view. Attacks such as these 
are unnecessary and they often under
mine the central intent of the author.
We recognize that remorse has been 
expressed by the authors of two of these 
incidents. We urge each member of the 
community to make respect for each othei 
a primary goal whenever expressingthetf 
personal opinions. We should disagree, 
criticize, even risk offense when our 
strongly held views conflict with those oi 
others. However, we should not thought" 
lessly or gratuitously insult or ridicule 
any of our fellow University members. 
To do so hurts each of us and undermines 
our sense of community.
William F. Elliott 
Chair of the Human Relations 
Commission 
On behalf of the members of the 
Commission

---------------------------------------------------

xTp3 UoNO pTCO 
83COOk kMofp 
uVoR8OsM
Hello. Tartan News.
Is Jason McDonald there? 
Sure. Just a minute.... Hi, 
this is Jason.
Jason. This is Bob Wilson 
from Universal. I just got your 
synopsis for Tartans: The 
Movie, and it looks like a 
winner. Sports films have been 
good business ever since Bull 
Durham. I just have a few 
questions.
Sure. Go ahead.
First of all, I need to know a 
little more about the team.  
Sure. A Cinderella team that 
wasnt looking to finish above 
.500 wins its conference, pulls 
out the best record in team 
history and picks up a national 
playoff berth. You cant write a 
script better than that.
Thats nice, but gimme some 
facts, kid. How good are they1? 
They won the University 
Athletic Association, which is a 
pretty tough conference in 
Division III. They won a teamrecord 21 games, and they got 
the first national ranking in 
team history. Good list of 
credentials; at least I think so. 
Yeah, yeah. So what do they 
got on the court. Hoosiers had 
that Jimmy kid; who do the 
Tartans have?
Well, they have some solid 
players, but their big strength is 
playing as a team. According to 
their coach, as far as playing as 
a team goes, theyre the best 
team Ive ever coached.
And it gets better. When they 
lose one of their best guards  
the team co-captain  halfway 
through the year, they keep 
winning. They dont fold; no one 
player becomes a new-found 
star; they just all play a little 
better, and they keep on win
ning.
I like the angle on it. We can 
market it as a family film, good 
message for the little kids. Keep 
selling me, though. Do we have 
excitement?
You bet. How does an upset 
road win over the number three 
team in the nation sound? The 
game after they lose the guard, 
they come back from as much as 
19 down and hit the game 
winner with one second left and 
the leading scorer out of the 
game on fouls.
Pretty good, but what else? 
Well, later in the season, 
they beat the same team at 
home in overtime. Once again, 
they come back from a double 
digit deficit.
Youve hooked me so far.
What happens when they get to 
the playoffs?
Well, they lose in the first 
round.
THEY LOSE???
Yeah. They have a bad day 
and lose. Turnovers in the first 
half, cold shooting in the sec
ond. Even the best teams lose.
It happens, but they get on with 
life. The way I see it, youve got 
a great sequel possibility when 
they come back stronger next 
season.
O.K., Im sold. Ill get casting 
011  wait a second. (Muffled) 
What? Why didnt you tell me we 
had an offer on the UNLVstory?
Set them on the line! Its 
noney in the bank, especially if 
We set release date when they go 
n probation. Tell them Ill be 
right with them; I just gotta get 
rid of this stupid kid.
Jason McDonald is a junior 
major.
rluIls9v 9ol98sJ DAO
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
SELINSGROVE, Penn.  
When head coach Gerri Seidls 
1988-89 womens basketball team 
lost to Elizabethtown in the first 
round of Division III playoffs, 
Seidl said, We have the experi
ence now, but we will be back 
soon. Two years later, Seidls 
Tartans, ranked number two in 
the Mid-Atlantic Region, returned 
to Division III playoff action as 
promised.
The playoff system has been 
revamped since then, but the 
outcome was the same. 
Susquehanna University put an 
end to the most successful season 
in Tartan history, downing the 
Tartans 70-54.
The loss gave the Tartans a 
final overall record of 216, 
besting the previous record of 20- 
7, set by the 1989 playoff team. 
That final record also includes a 
12-2 conference championship in 
the University Athletic Associa
tion and the first national rankIt was just one of those games that 
just wasn't meant to be. It seemed 
that, no matter what we did\ things 
just wouldnt go our way. 
 Gerri Seidl, 
head coach
ing in team history.
It was just one of those games 
that just wasnt meant to be, said 
Seidl. It seemed that, no matter 
what we did, things just wouldnt 
go our way. Its unfortunate that 
we went that far and finished our 
year like we did.
We didnt play well, said 
sophomore guard Kelly Sterling. 
I dont know exactly what went 
wrong. It was tough playing at 
their court because it was a big
ger crowd and a more vocal crowd 
than we were used to; that had a 
little to do with it, but we just 
didnt play all that well.
Sophomore guard Kelly Sterling works herway through the Susquehanna 
defense during last Saturdays 70-54 playoff loss.
Susquehanna entered the game 
ranked number three in the MidAtlantic Region with a season 
record of 22-4. That record in
cluded a 17-game winning streak 
and a 9-1 championship mark in 
the Middle Atlantic Conferences 
Northwest Section. Their final 
regular season game was a 79-69 
loss to Moravian in the MAC 
championship.
Only four of the 11 Tartan 
players entered the game with 
playoff experience, but they were 
facing a relatively young 
Susquehanna team. The Lady 
Crusaders roster only had one 
senior and one junior. The main 
Susquehanna personnel advan
tage was in depth; they had 14 
players (eight letter winners) to 
CMUs 11 (six letter winners). 
CMUs squad includes junior 
guard Katie Fahey, who was 
dressed but didnt play due to the 
knee injury she suffered in Chi
cago earlier in the season.
Early on, it looked as if the 
Tartans were on their way to 
earning a spot in the Division III 
Sweet 16, jumping out to a 10-4 
lead in the first four minutes. 
Senior guard Laurie Pankuck, 
Susquehannas leading scorer and 
team leader, was riding the bench 
with two early fouls, andit seemed 
as if the Tartans could do little 
wrong.
Two quick Susquehanna bas
kets cut the Tartan lead to 10-8, 
forcing Seidl to call timeout. Un
fortunately, the break in the ac
tion didnt help much as the Lady, 
Crusaders rattled off 10 more 
unanswered points to lead 18-10 
with 10:37 to play in the half.
The next minute saw the Tar
tans regroup and get right back in 
the game. Anchored by the 
shooting of their guards, the 
Tartans put a seven-point run of 
their own on the board. With 6:05 
left in the half, sophomore guard 
Kelly Sterling converted a missed 
free throw to give the lead back to 
the Tartans, 23-22.
The last six minutes of the first
RVTC3Opf 8TO 8OsM
Junior guard Heather ODonnell goes up for a layup against the Ipdy 
Crusaders.
still within a point in spita'afihe 
way we played.
I was just searching fdctfbEiat 
one player to spark for us, orltbat 
one combination that wouldiget 
us rolling.
Unfortunately, that didnMronme 
to pass; specifically, the hatft&ne 
analysis failed to take cold Tdrtan 
shooting into account. The;3$artans shot just 22 percent (nine of 
41) from the floor in the seend 
half, and they also gave the*lfody 
Crusaders the bonus for the final 
12 minutes of the game.
The first five minutes o5the 
second half foretold, what w^s to 
come. The Lady Crusaders burst 
out with a 12-4 run, helped by 
four Tartan fouls. Seidl called 
timeout at 15:05, and theTai^ns 
started one of their (patented 
comebacks. With 13 miiiut$' to 
play, the Tartans trailed bg&i&ily 
five, 46-41. :bjs
Unfortunately, the TarlfSns 
didnt have the magic: theyfflkad 
against Washington Univaity 
earlier in the season, picking!up 
four quick fouls around bhcrfl.2- 
minute mark. AlthiXBgh 
Susquehanna only pickeiisup 
three points at the free.jfc&iow 
line, the effect was far mosgtgsevere; the Tartans hadbeen fctuiflwn 
off their growing hot streak* i^fihen 
the Tartans finally got baefei on 
the scoreboard with 10:19 to-play, 
See PLAYOFFS, pa^e 14
half were the most exciting of the 
game; Sterlings basket marked 
the first of eight lead changes in 
the closing minutes. The only 
break in the see-saw battle came 
when junior center Amy Buxbaum 
scored on back-to-back plays to 
push the Tartan lead to three 
points. The score stood at 29-26.
Susquehanna center Yvonne 
Young duplicated the feat a 
minute later to give the lead back 
to the Lady Crusaders, 32-31, 
with 35 seconds to go. Junior 
guard Heather ODonnell hit a 
jumper with nine seconds left, 
but Susquehannas Jennifer 
Winter went coast to coast and 
beat the buzzer on a layup to give 
the Lady Crusaders a 34^33 halftime advantage.
At halftime, there was still a 
feeling that the Tartans could take 
the game. It seemed as if the 
Tartans could relax and work the 
ball better on offense (17 of the 
Tartans 24 turnovers came in 
the first half), they would be able 
to pull the game out.
I think a lot of the turnovers 
came off their press, said fresh
man forward Jeanine Megahan, 
but it was mostly just butterflies.
I was surprised we were that 
close at halftime because we 
werent playing very well, said 
Seidl. We hurt ourselves 17 
turnovers isnt something were 
accustomed to  and we were
yEw nlmu899o mnF( u8nn9 I8 :AD 9Ilu,
By STEPHEN KANG
Special To The Tartan
The Carnegie Mellon lacrosse 
club played its first home game at 
Gesling Stadium yesterday, 
beating crosstown rival 
Duquesne, 8-3. The win raised 
the clubs spring record to 3-0.
Senior Phil Kaplan and fresh
man Joe Hynds led CMU with 
two goals apiece. Juniors Glenn 
Hoffmann, Steve Ramey, and 
Marty Reed, and freshman Pat 
Coburn closed out the Carnegie 
Mellon scoring. Reed is a 
defenseman who went the length 
of the field to score an unassisted 
goal.
The previous day saw CMU gain 
a 12-8 victory over Washington 
& Jefferson. Fifth year senior 
goalie and captain Peter 
Vonderlieth turned in an impres
sive performance, making 18 
saves, and senior Rob Kendall 
scored four goals to lead the CMU
offense.
Freshman Rick Kieser had two 
goals in a substitute role. Kieser 
fillied in for Kendall, who was 
ejected from Saturdays game for 
fighting.
The rest of the scoring was 
spread among four players. Jun
ior Todd Bredbenner scored two 
goals and added four assists, 
freshman Sam Shannon scored 
two goals, and graduate student 
Bayard Johnson and senior Jay 
Nesbitt each scored one goal.
CMU won its first game of the 
regular season last Saturday, 
beating its old nemesis, Slippery 
Rock. The game was played at 
Slippery Rock on a muddy field 
that was full of puddles from the 
previous days rain. CMU played 
a tough game, fighting the wild 
fans as well as one of the worst 
fields in the league on its way to a 
6-2 victory.
Kendall played a sharp game, 
scoring four goals. Johnson and
Kaplan each had a goal to close 
out the scoring for Carnegie Mel
lon.
Vonderlieth, still sufferingfrom 
a blind spot incurred in an injury 
during the off-season, played an 
outstanding game. Vonderlieth 
did not allow any goals after the 
first quarter.
Despite the score, the game was 
very close; in the first quarter, the 
game was dead even as each team 
scored a pair of goals. Due to the 
awful condition of the field, the 
entire game was played on the 
ground with five or six players 
piling on top of each other in an 
attempt to get the ball. The game 
was a defensive one from the start; 
offensive players had trouble 
passing accurately because of 
mud-covered sticks.
Sophomore Roman Traska, 
Reed, freshman Craig Bachmann, 
and seniors Nesbitt and Hudson 
Tiffany, the Carnegie Mellon de
fensive core, all contributed to
We have a powerful team this yearr 
We've been three years in the build-, 
ing.... Were also starting to get a 
higher level of freshman players. 
 captain Peter Vonderlieth
the low scoring by the Slippery 
Rock team. Ramey also played a 
major role in CMU challenging 
the Slippery Rock squad for the 
ground balls by using his physi
cal play.
The game had to be stopped 
after the third quarter due to rain 
and lightning. The league rule 
states that referees may stop the 
game in the event of lightning; 
lightning represents a potential 
hazard to players because they 
often play with aluminum sticks. 
Since Carnegie Mellon was win
ning at the time and the game
was played beyond halftime, QMU 
was awarded the victory. .
Also helping the tea^/were 
freshmen Hynds, Shannon^and 
Eric Hokanson, and sophomores 
Russell Elkin and Guy Pa.cmette. 
In addition, Stony (who prefers to 
keep his real name secrej^pid 
sophomore Stephen Kaqg pro
vided relief off the bei^c^for 
middie lines.
We have a powerful team^his 
year, Vonderlieth said. "^Weve. 
been three years in the buiming.... 
Were also starting to get am^her 
level of freshman players.^

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
Stop by the Career Center and pick up one of our company 
brochures.
Campus Concepts
In the 1950s a war 
was being fought in the U.S. 
A committee of Congress 
sought to control 
the creative community 
through fear and censorship. 
Anyone who disagreed 
with them 
became...
All it took was a whisper.
WARNER BROS, kCOpOm3p
Juniorcr M1LCHAN Prta om IRWIN WINEER 5sMU ROBERT DE NIRO 
"GUILTY BY SUSPICION ANNETTE BENING  GEORGE WENDT  PATRICIA 
SAUN C. BLOMQUIST 1;JAMES NEWTON HOWARD STEVEN REUTHER
PG-13|PABEMTSSTROHSLrC*UnOHiO-ig>l
WETTIG om SAM WANAMAKER
I I I murili II11 Iwromu rtf CMUm uf i:
ume8m5,IssI 1s9H1e 
oin gr9k yEI-9gge
RVTC3Opf pTO Osos
Freshman forward Jeanine Megahan battles for the rebound against Susquehannas Holly Whitesel In last 
Saturdays first round Division III playoff game.
Rugby club stomps Gators
PLAYOFFS, from page 13
the Lady Crusader lead was back 
to double digits, 51-41.
We had a cold hand while they 
had good outside shooting and got 
some long rebounds on us, said 
Megahan.
The same pattern duplicated 
itself a few minutes later as an
other Carnegie Mellon rally was 
killed by fouls. This time the 
damage was too severe, though. 
The end of the Tartan rally was 
followed by a 18-4 Susquehanna 
explosion that put the game away.
Down by 21 points, 70-49, the 
Tartans had to start shooting 
three point shots to pull even. The 
Tartan defense held the Lady 
Crusaders scoreless for the last 
three minutes, but the Tartans 
were only able to come up with 
five points down the stretch. The 
final minute saw all five Tartans 
near or behind the three-point 
line on offense, but Buxbaum hit 
the Tartans only three-pointer of 
the second with 1:40 left to close
out the Tartan scoring.
We played pretty solid de
fense, said Megahan, but we 
had that eight to ten minute pe
riod where we lost control. Over
all, I dont think we played that 
bad a game, but there was just a 
big enough time period where we 
didnt play well.
Buxbaum led the Tartans with 
15 points despite being in foul 
trouble for much of the second 
half. ODonnell and Megahan each 
added 10 points to help the Tar
tans cause. Buxbaum and 
Megahan each grabbed nine re
bounds to tie for the team lead in 
that category. Five Lady Crusad
ers reached double figures in 
scoring; sophomore guard Kristie 
Maravelli led the way with 20 
points.
I told them that they cant make 
one game the whole season, said 
Seidl. I wanted them to focus on 
the successes. We won 21 games 
and the UAA championship, our 
third straight title; how many
teams win three conference titles 
in three years? I think we had a 
pretty impressive year.
It was a great season, said 
Sterling. We surprised a lot of 
people; we showed ourselves what 
we could do and what were still 
capable of doing. This is a great 
team, and its going to be even 
more awesome next season. 
We had a productive year; win
ning the UAA was a big accom
plishment, said Megahan. It was 
also a fun season. The team 
worked well, and we had a good 
time on the court. Im looking 
forward to next year so we can go 
further than the first round. 
Last Saturdays playoff game 
was only the second post-season 
appearance in team history. In 
1989, the Tartans lost to 
Elizabethtown, the eventual Di
vision III national champions, 78- 
61, before pulling out a 73-67 
overtime win over Franklin & 
Marshall College in the consola
tion game.
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity rugby club extended its win 
streak to two with a 18-6 win 
over Allegheny College Saturday 
at Frick Park Field. Carnegie 
Mellon dominated the Gators from 
start to finish of the game, pun
ishing them with its overpower
ing scrum and the sure foot of 
senior Joe Schwerha.
Early in the first half, Schwerha 
opened the scoring for CMUs 
Eggmen with a kick for points 
from just inside the 22-meter line, 
giving CMU a 3-0 lead. Not long 
after, senior Neil Talsania scored 
a try; Schwerhas conversion af
ter the try extended the lead to 9-
0. Near the end of the first half, 
Schwerha drop-kicked the ball 
through the uprights for three 
more points, giving Carnegie 
Mellon a 12-0 halftime lead.
The second half was more de
fensive, as Allegheny attempted 
a comeback. The Gators scored 
early in the second half to tighten 
the game at 12-6; however, for 
most of the half, Carnegie Mellon 
continued to dominate the Al
legheny scrum.
Finally, in the last five minutes 
of the game, senior Tom Anfuso 
scored a try. Schwerha followed 
with the conversion, making the 
final score 18-6.
Senior wing forward Peter Low
described the Eggmens perfor
mance. All the pieces came to
gether today, he said. Weve fi
nally got the experience it will 
take to beat teams like Slippery 
Rock and West Virginia. Our 
scrum is just too strong to be 
beaten by anyone well play this 
season.
Ed Miller, a 6'3" 250-pound se
nior prop in the scrum, agrees. 
Theres no one we cant drive off 
the ball and pound up and down 
the field, he said. I dont think 
anyone will beat us this season. 
The Eggmen will be tested next 
weekend when they travel to 
Juniata College, hoping to score 
their first victory ever against 
Juniata.
Sunday through Thursday 8-11 pm
Calculus 
Physics 
Chemistry 
Academic Writing 
Intro to Computing WeH 5427
WeH 5403 
WeH 5427 
WeH 5205 
WeH 5205
The Right Place To Turn
OPENS FRIDAY, MARCH 15TH
College Students Just Dont Get A Summer Job Like This
Campus Concepts publishes the 
most dynamic college student 
guide today. Each year hundreds 
of thousands of college students 
use the Unofficial Student Guide.
Campus Concepts is looking for 
aggressive, motivated individuals 
to join our team in Pittsburgh as
sales associates this summei. My job provided irreplaceable experience and
was financially rewarding as well.
Don Johnson, Campus Concepts sales associate University of Kansas
A Campus Concepts sales associate soon learns a new range of 
self-confidence that lasts a lifetime. Plus the summer 
compensation of $4,000 to $5,000 makes a Campus Concepts 
summer just about the best internship you can find.
Campus Concepts will be at Carnegie Mellon for an information 
session Monday, March 18 from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm in Skibo 
room 45. Interviews will be the following day in the Career 
Center, Warner Hall 19.
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 199115
IM Scoreboard
P leaeslLO CKCS,p
to choose from - all subjects 
^Catalog Today wiih Visa/MC or COD
BaDGBgasiHMMfttq 800-351-0222
Calif. (213) 477.8226 
I nyf*1 l0: Research Assistance 
''2 Idaho Ave. 206-SN Los Angeles, CA 90025 
^m research availableall levels
Celbratt reTdieoa I SERVICES
An Amtncan E>pris companyCALL 1-800-942-AMEX
If you're already a Cardmembet; theres no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.CONTINENTAL
m Night 
The intramural department will 
be holding the finals of IM bas
ketball at the 43rd Annual In
tramural Night on Thursday 
jght. The finals will be played 
according to the following sched
ule: minors at 5:30 pm, interme
so3O at 7 pm, and majors at 8:30 
n. At 8 pm, trophies will be 
presented to the winners of all 
jitramural sports completed to 
j3OP
In addition, IM basketball 
will be held on the three 
proceeding IM Night. The 
championships for the womens 
and the minors NIT will 
be held on Wednesday night.
CMU Bowl-a-thon
All members of the Carnegie 
Mellon University campus com
munity are invited to participate 
in the 1991 Junior Achievement 
Bowl-a-thon, sponsored by Carn
egie Mellon University. Every 
bowler, regardless of his or her 
skill is invited to bowl in this 
event. For additional information, 
please contact the IM office.
IM Tournament Week
The IM department will be 
holding Tournament Week from 
next Monday through Thursday 
in the Skibo Gym. Competitors 
for all events except three-onthree basketball may sign up un
til and including the day of the 
event.
The schedule for Tournament 
Week is as follows:
Monday, March 18 
6:30 pm  Co-Rec Badminton 
8 pm  Team Badminton 
6:30-8:30 pm  Foul Shooting
Tuesday, March 19 
6:30 pm Three-On-Three Bas
ketball
8-9:30 pm  Foul Shooting
Wednesday, March 20 
6:30 pm  Three-On-Three bas
ketball
7:30-9:30 pm  Foul Shooting 
Thursday, March 21
the Blue Room of the gym. The 
8th Annual Real Man Wrestling 
Tournament will be held in Thistle 
Hall on Saturday, April 6, at 10 
am. Entries will be accepted until 
9:45 am on the day of the event.
6:30-8:30 pm 
Shooting
SPORTS IN SEASON
Water Basketball
Three-Point Commissioner not announced
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the intramural office. 
Games are being played on 
Tuesday and Wednesday nights 
at 9 and 10 pm.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please report all scores to the 
commissioner.
Wrestling
Commissioners 
Bill Cheeseman, x8332 
Chris Ferrence, x4791 
Scott Quarles, x7516 
Practice sessions will be held in
Darts
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Finals will be played as soon as 
a date is finalized.
Basketball
Commissioners
MajorsMike Grzywinski, 521- 
8977
Intermediate  Buddy Feitt,
x3947
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
WomensKris Pasqualin,x5978 
Playoff brackets are posted on 
the IM bulletin board. Finals will 
be played Thursday at the 43rd 
Annua] IM Night.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please turn in scores after each 
match.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
All scores must be reported to 
the commissioner or the intra
mural office.
Pinochle
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt', x3947 
Schedules are out and can be
picked up in the 
report the scores 
to the commissioner.
Faculty-Grad
Commissioner 
Chris Yount, x7113 
Matches will be played 
day evenings at 6:30 pm.
UPCOMING
Handball
Commissioner 
E.J. Birdy, x2214 
Entries are due Thursday at'; 
4:30 pm in the IM office.
SPORTS DUE THURSDAY
 Co-Rec Table Tennis 
Table Tennis (singles and 
doubles)
 Call Pool (team and individual)
Compiled by 
JASON MCDONALD
FLOOR HOCKEY
MAJORSWL T
Todd Rockoff2 0 0
Kappa Sig10 0
Beta Poopin Bandits110
DU A0 3 0
INTERMEDIATE
Nonoeorm b
Green Aces2 0 0
GSIA '9110 0
SAE A110
Theta Xi Tomahawks0 10
Puckheads0 2 0
DIVISION B
AT0 Heat2 0 0
Theta Xi Patriots2 10
Zoo A110
Better Off Dead0 3 0
MINORS
DIVISION A
Theta Xi Heclkemaniacs2 0 0
Pilam A2 0 0
CIA110
AEPi0 2 0
KDR0 2 0
DIVISION B
Pioneers2 0 0
SAE B10 1
Lost Boys110
Mother PuckersOil
Navy B0 2 0
DIVISION C
Pika2 0 0
DTD2 0 0
Beta Mad Dogs110
Slaphappy0 2 0
Theta Xi Ded0 2 0
DIVISION D
Garth's Gang110
Athletic Supporters2 0 0
Exranglant Comme...110
Sig Tau B110
Schwarzeneggers0 2 0
DIVISION E
ATO Hackers2 0 0
Navy A10 1
Intense Rectal Itch110
Phi Kap BOil
Road Kill0 2 0
Nonoeorm s
No Equipment2 0 0
Pi Alpha Delta2 0 0
ATO SFPs110
Buffalo Chips0 2 0RC0 2 0
Nonoeorm i
Sig Tau A2 0 0
Nenads10 0
vleugm110
Sigma Lambda Gamma110
Mudge B10 10DJ B0 2 0
Nonoeorm a
ATO Oversized Loads2 0 0phi Kap A2 0 0
:oCRCo,MOCp
SO3,VCNOCp
8kfR-V
Line Drive
b-O yORTCpsLO 8O3p
b-O hOppoAO GoppOCp
hOR-omsRoM vmAsmOOCsmA
yVgV8ksNOp
zVTCp
INTERMEDIATE
hT tMk-o b-O3o 
8ksNOp Vm 3-O rsmO
4
3
3
2
2
2
1
1
1
3
3
1
1
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
1
1
dOAO-VAp 5CVU dOMM 
:O33OC c55 ^Oo 
81Gt83oCp 
^sA b-sp
rTUkOm 'm3OMMOR3ToMp 
:sV0doHoCp 
8Uopds3p 
8OCLOCp V5 u3-TM-T
MINORS
8ksNO GTmRyVMMsmA b-TmOC 
'bu GV,OC 8ksNOp
3
2
2
2
1
1
1
0
1
1
2
2
2
3
3
4
8TpTRNOCp6
yVgVzCop6
yOUOso3VCp6
tb'a
tmVmfUVTpa
b-O bsAOCpa
vGGe
bCOO dTAAOCpe
WATER BASKETBALL
DIVISION A
8tv 1
American Express 
Announces A Great New Travel Program.
Now students can get the Card 
and get 3 roundtrips on Continental 
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each.
Theres only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending 
a lot of money And thats by getting the American Express Card. 
Its the only card that offers an exciting new travel program 
exclusively for studentsincluding three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines.
Just look at the map and pick the place youd like 
to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you 
can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, 
you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost any timebecause 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations 
within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 
7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.
In addition to this great travel program, youll also enjoy all 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa
tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable 
discounts from leading retailers.
But remember, theres only one way to get all thisand thats 
by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
address and account number on hand). Whats more, 
with our special student offer, its easier to get the 
Card now while you're still in school than it may 
ever be again.
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.
tp3-Uo3sRp 10 0
DsM cmOp 0 10
:O3o r 0 2 0
^V-OC3f ^smVpoTCp 0 2 0
WOMENS LEAGUE
b-O3o 10 0
xVMMf yomR-OCp 110
wokko wokko zoUUo 0 10
FACULTY-GRAD VOLLEYBALL
MAJORS
azCOOm tROpa0.--32
2:O3o :OoR-O D-oMOp0i:-5J2G-s wokko b-O3o0a 
2
2yw.Rwlg S-H
3SoLf taV
ab-O3o Qsa0
4:O3o 2500i':-
GsVmOOCp0MVspP
Compiled,by 
o aJjRu Dt,RuJTh X

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
Penguins make blockbuster deal as trade deadline passes
As the 1990-91 NHL season 
enters its final three weeks, little 
is changing in the standings.
Last Monday marked the NHL 
trade deadline, and only one ma
jor deal was concluded. The Pitts
burgh Penguins swapped center 
John Cullen, the leagues fifthleading scorer, and defenseman 
Zarley Zalapski for center Ron 
Francis and defensemen Ulf 
Samuelsson and Grant Jennings. 
Other big-name players that were 
pn the trading, block, like New
THE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
by Allan Bourdius
Jersey goal tender Sean Burke and 
N.Y. Islanders center Pat
LaFontaine, are still with their 
teams.
Reports that the Penguins are 
up for sale have sparked rumors 
that their fellow Patrick Division 
team in New Jersey is also on the 
market. Devils principal owner 
John C. McMullen has repeat
edly denied that the team is for 
sale. However, McMullens other 
pro sports team, Major League 
Baseballs Houston Astros, is. It 
is unlikely that McMullen will 
actually sell the Devils because
he and the other two owners are 
New Jersey residents. One of 
them, former New Jersey Gover
nor Brendan Byrne, is also the 
namesake of the arena that the 
Devils play in.
Sale rumors arent the only 
problems the Devils face these 
days. Coach John Cunniff was 
fired last week because of the 
recent lack of intensity in the 
teams play. Tom McVie of the 
American Hockey Leagues Utica 
Devils was named the Devils new
.coach. McVie has held the posi
tion once before. The Devils need 
to find some consistency in scor
ing and defense if they expect to 
remain in the playoff picture. 
Right now they lead the fifthplace Washington Capitals by just 
two points.
The playoff races in the other 
divisions have stayed remarkably 
constant. The only real races now 
are in the Norris and Smythe di
visions. The St. Louis Blues and 
the Chicago Blackhawks have
been passing first place back and 
forth all season long. The Bluet 
hold first right now, but th( 
Hawks are just two points be. 
hind. In the Smythe Division the 
Los Angeles Kings hold an evei 
slimmer one-point lead over thi 
Calgary Flames.
The season is winding down ani 
the extra-hard play and 
tempo of the playoffs are 
around the comer.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomw 
applied history major.
Carnegie Mellon track teams fare well at UAA indoor championships
:f vr'|t:vbd xP vyvyt
Special To The Tartan
The womens and mens indoor track 
and field teams competed in the Univer
sity Athletic Association championship 
at the University of Chicago last week
end. Carnegie Mellon womens team 
placed sixth out of the seven womens 
teams represented at the meet and the 
mens team placed fifth out of the 32 
mens teams at the meet.
New personal bests and new CMU 
indoor records were achieved by the
outstanding efforts of both the womens 
and mens teams. One of the new CMU 
indoor records was set by the mens 1600- 
meter relay team who placed fourth with 
a time of 3:39. Bill Isaacs and sophomore 
Brad Shapiro, who made up half of the 
relay team, also setnewpersonal records 
with their 400-meter splits within the 
relay. Freshman Jarrod Siket and senior 
Jeff Illian were the other two members of 
the relay team who participated in this 
spectacular performance.
Placing second in the 1500-meter run 
was Shapiro for the mens team with a
time of 3:59.84. This is a new Carnegie 
Mellon indoor record. On top of setting a 
new CMU indoor record, Illian set a UAA 
record with his 200-meter run that he 
accomplished in an astonishing 22.75 
seconds.
Illian didnt stop at that record; he also 
set a new CMU indoor record and placed 
second in the 55-meter run with a time of 
6.73 seconds. Isaacs, while running the 
800-meter, achieved a personal best in 
the preliminaries with a time of 2:01.84.
Freshman Garret Long also contrib
uted a spellbinding performance. In the
55-meter hurtles, Long ran with a time 
of 8.42 seconds. In the preliminaries, he 
set a new personal record with a time of 
8.36 seconds.
Junior Susan Wempa had two out
standing jumps. In the triple jump she 
flew 9.2 meters and in the long jump she 
placed sixth after jumping 4.7 meters. 
Sophomore Laura Sibley ran the 1500- 
meter run> with a time of 5:04.9. Junior 
Carolyn Lowe set a new CMU indoor 
record in the 3000-meter womens run 
with a time of 10:25.7 finishing in first 
place.
Lowe qualified for the NCAA Divisioi 
III National Championships at Wesleyai 
University, which she ran in this 
weekend. She placed sixth in the 5000 
meter run with a time of 17:44.8 am 
became the first women track All-Ameri 
can for CMU.
It wasnt her best race of the year by 
long shot.... She beat who she had to bi 
to make it [qualify as All-American] 
said womens head coach Dario 
Donatello.Only the top six finishers ii 
the 5000-meter earn the All-American' 
position.
r'wv 8Gvv^\
Motorcycles?
yoRsmA\
Carnegie Mellon Riding Club
kCOpOm3p PPP
BILL ZIEMER
pkOoNsmA Vm
RACE PREPPING - MACHINE AND MAN
March 14, 1991 - 6:00 pm - PH 226C
WERE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
 Private Mail Box Rental...24 hour access  UPS, DHL, Overnight Letters
-Office Supplies  Photocopies
 Packing and Shipping  Passport Photos, etc...
 Business Cards  FAX Service
zO3 3-O 5op3Op3 ay8 yO5Tm o3 ht'r :cQv8 vbuP
Postal Business and Communication Services
MAXL :cQv8 vbuP USA
JaJ 8c1bd uyt'z 8byvvb _I40_aee trmnMmoMmzT0 TrtbzMN mMbc srcSMe bnMmhM C tbcmMioM uheMhu
Asian Student Association
presents
Bion Tsang at
Carnegie Mellon
Mellon Institute 
Auditorium 
Monday, April 15th 
8:00 pm
Tickets will soon be 
available at 
Information Desk
A young cellist of remarkable gifts - b-O SO, )VCN bsUOp The audience responded with a standing ovation - yOmV zoHO33O0xVTCmoM distinguished ultimately by something beyond notes 0^osMf COOUom There 
was much to admire in Tsang's playing 0 b-O :Vp3Vm zMVgO
The Juilliard School at thcage of eight. Studied under: Ardyth Alton, William Pleeth, Luis Garcia-Renart, 
Channing Robbins, Aldo Parisot, and Leonard Rose. Bachelor's Degree from Harvard University. Work
ing towards his Master's degree at Yale University.
Carnegie Recital Hall Alice Tully Hall The New York Philharmonic The Atlanta Symphony The 
Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra Marlboro and the Taipei Philharmonic Festival Manhattan Chamber 
Orcheslra
Intemauonal Tchaikovsky Compeuotion in Moscow. The New York Philharmonic Young Performers 
Competition . Piatigorsky Memorial Cello Prize. Artist International Award
8kVmpVCO gf 3-O 83TOm3 tR3sLs3sOp OO
uMopps5sOp
dVTpsmA
8-ofpsO ( F gOCVVUp 7 6 
gOCVVUp 5TCmsp-OP SO, go3- om 
Ns3R-Oml DBDl ,op-OCBCsOCP tMM 
T3sMs3sOp smRMTOP _Iq0_aeIP 
$qeJjFYY0J4YI
8-VC3 bOCU ( 8-ofpsO 'mm 
tkoC3UOm3 8Ts3OpP vMOAom3Mf 5TC2
msp-Ol ,OMM0okkVsm3Ol p3TsV a76 
gOCVVU pTs3Opl 5TMMf0O9TskkO 
Ns3R-OmP 'mRMTOp 5COO RogMO $d:cjl 
k-VmOl koCNsmAl MsmOmpP cmO gMVRN 3V 
DoMmT3 83COO3 p-VkpP CVU nJa kOC 
ofl UVm3-Mf gopspP ^osMfl ,OONMfl 7 
UVm3-Mf Co3Op oLosMogMOP JJa0JJJJP
VC yOm3 ( 89TsCCOM dsMM O55sRsOm2
RsOpl a0gOCVVUl 60gOCVVU Tm5TC2
msp-OP tMpV -VTpO0p-oCOP xVO F6a0 
JI66P rOoLO UOppoAO s5 mV3 smP
xVgp
cLOCpOop ckkVC3Tms3sOp ( b,V0 
fOoC kVps3sVmp sm OLOMVksmA RVTm2
3CsOpP us3sHOmp-skBOACOO CO9TsCOP tMM 
O/kOmpOp kosP v/ROMMOm3 gOmO5s3p ( 
MVom O5OCUOm3BACo pR-VVM oppsp2
3omROP uoMM z,Om tMMOml GOoRO uVCkp 
yOk _JI04J6JP
bOMOk-VmO pVMsRs3VC ( poMoCf kMTp 
RVUUsppsVmP uoMM JJa04ee4P
zO3 fVTC COoU WVgp mV, aeep V5 
oCOppOp om 3OMP!p V5 WVgp VkOm sm 
GoCospOP uoMs5BMoBSo3EM GoCNpB 
uCTspOByo53smA 5VC 8kCsmAB8TUUOCP 
doLO o kos LoRo3sVmP uoMM a Yee066_ 
6_JJP nqBUsmP
dOoM3-f ,VUOm oAOp aI(q4 $qJ 5VC 
pUVNOCpj mOOO 5VC VCoM RVm3CoROk2
3sLO p3Tf o3 hoAOO0DVUOmp 
dVpks3oMP cmO fOoC RVUUs3UOm3P 
yOsUgTCpOUOm3P VC O3osMp RoMM _J40 
J6FY $hVmP(CsPj
op3 TmCospsmA GCVACoU& naeee 
sm WTp3 VmO ,OONP voCm Tk 3V naeee 
5VC fVTC RoUkTp VCAomsHo3sVmP GMTp o 
R-omRO o3 nFeee UVCO b-sp kCVACoU 
,VCNp SV smLOp3UOm3 mOOOP uoMM 
a0Iee0Yq60eF6I v/3PFe
Dv Svv^ 8vr0hcb'tbv^ 
8b1^vSb8P voCm Tk 3V n aeB-CP 
hoCNO3 RCOs3 RoCp Vm RoUkTpP 
MO/sgMO -VTCpP cmMf ae kVps3sVmp 
oLosMogMOP uoMM SV, a0IeeYFe0IJ46 
v/3P6e $:oCgj
vQu'b'Sz xc:8 'S trt8wt 
d'y'Sz hOm 0 DVUOmP 8TUUOCB 
)OoC yVTmP sp-smAl uommOCsOpl 
rVAAsmAl hsmsmAl uVmp3CTR3sVml csM
uVUkomsOpl 8NsMMOB1mpNsMMOP bComp2
kVC3o3sVmP n_ee kMTp ,OONMfP utrr 
ScD a06e_04q_04eeel v/3P :IJa
uCTspO 8-sk xVgp d'y'Sz hOm 0 
DVUOmP 8TUUOCB)OoC yVTmP 
GdcbczytGdvy8l bc1y z1'^v8l 
yvuyvtb'cS Gvy8cSSvrP 
v/ROMMOm3 kof kMTp yvv 3CoLOMP 
uoCsggOoml do,ossl :o-oUopl 8VT3- 
GoRs5sRl hO/sRVP utrr ScD uoMM 
CO5TmogMOP a06e_04q_04eeel v/3P _eeSa
uc1S8vrcy8 DtSbv^P bCsU 
V,m(5s3mOppl RV0Ol S)8 RoUkP aee 
kVps3sVmp& pkVC3pl RCo53pl Uomf V3-OCpP 
uoUk 8-omOl OUoMO S) a64qJ 
$YaJj6Y60JeJF
8OCLsROp
tgVC3sVml hVCmsmA0o53OC 3COo3UOm3P
COO kCOAmomRf 3Op3smAl pTkkVC3sLO 
o3UVpk-OCOP :sC3- RVm3CVMl ^ 3Op3smAl 
UOm om ,VUOmP uoMM __a0IIaaP 
tMMOA-Omf yOkCVTR3sLOP
8kCsmA :COoN ( xoUosRo :o-oUop 
GTOC3V ysRV CVU VmMf nF6Yl smRMTsmA 
osC5oCO 5CVU Gs33pgTCA-l ACOo3 -V3OMl 
3o/Op 7 ACo3Ts3sOp om UVCO uoMM 3-O 
8kCsmA :COoN O/kOC3p o3 VTC 8OopVmp 
a0Iee0qqa0qaq_P
dOosmA 5VC vTCVkO 3-sp pTUUOC\ xO3
3-OCO omf3sUO 5VC na_e ,s3- tsCms3R$Cj 
$COkVC3O sm NY Times om Lets Go!) 
tsC-s3R-$Cj _6a044eeP
8kCsmA :COoN ( n6qYl yBb gTpl 4 
msA-3pl GomoUo us3fl MVCsoP nJ_Yl yBb 
osCl 4 msA-3pl uomRml hO/sRVP uVTpsmp 
bCoLOM $Ja6j6_60q___P
rV, 83TOm3l oRTM3f 
oCOpt)d GoppOp 
vTCosMGoppOp bCoLOM:VVNp tMM 3V 
gO ?VTm o3 VCTU bCoLOMP sps3 Tp o3 
J_eI Dsm3-CVk 83P $V55 8VT3- uCosAj VC 
RoMM Tp o3 _Ia0JeYYP
uoCsggOom ( naIY 5VC 8kCsmA :COoN 
D-f 5COOHO -OCO ,-Om 5VC VmMf naIY 
fVT Rom gO p3CO3R-O VT3 Vm 3-O pomp V5 
3-O pTmmf uoCsggOom VC hO/sRom RVop3 
5VC o ,OON\ yB3 osCP 81Sd'bud> _6a0 
44eeP
DoNO0m0:oNO 8kCsmA :COoN Ya 
xoUosRoBuomRTm 5CVU nJFYPee t ,OON 
V5 5Tm om pTm b-O -V33Op3 Op3smo3sVmpP 
a0Iee0J6_044aeP
utrr'zytGd) 5VC smLs3o3sVmpl moUO 
goAOpl ROC3s5sRo3Opl O3RP uoMM :c:l q_60 
JqYF $OLOmsmApj
b-Oo3OC dOMk 0 ^sCOR3VCpl ^OpsAmOCpl
uCO, 0 pOm COpTUOp 3V wo3-MOOm 
D-s3O5VCl GPcP :V/ aII_l Gs33p2
gTCA-l Gt aF6qe0aII_
vs3smAl GCVV5COosmA 8OCLsROP 
DOEMM 5s/ 3-VpO ACoUUo3sRoMl pfm3oR3s2
RoMl pOUom3sRoM Usp3oNOp sm fVTC 
3-OpOpl kokOCpl gTpsmOpp VRTUOm3pl 
O3RP rO3 Tp ,VCCf ogVT3 3-O pkOMMsmA 
om kTmR3To3sVmP yOopVmogMO Co3Op* 
5op3 3TCmoCVTm 3sUO* UO3sRTMVTp 
COpTM3pP DO pkORsoMsHO sm -OMksmA 
RMsOm3p 5VC ,-VU vmAMspsp o pORVm 
MomAToAOP yO5OCOmROpl uoMM 8fm3oR3s/ 
F6a0aFI4
tVk3sVm
DO oCO o -okksMf UoCCsO RVTkMO 
pOONsmA 3V oVk3P GCsLo3O oVk3sVm sp o 
RVUkoppsVmo3O om kOC5OR3Mf MOAoM ,oW 
3V p-V, fVTC MVLO 5VC fVTC R-sMP DO 
,sMM gO o UsMN 7 RVVNsOp hVU om o 
rs33MO rOoATO ^oP DO kCVUspO o 5TMM 
om -okkf Ms5O 5VC o R-sMP DO oCO OopW 
3V 3oMN 3VP )VT Rom UOO3 Tp s5 fVT W 
,om3 3VP uoMM uVMMOR3 J6a0Iq_0J4FJP
t^cGb'cS dOMk UoNO VTC COoU * 
RVUO 3CTOP DO ,sp3V p-oCO VTC MVLO 
,s3- o gogfP rO3Ep -OMk OoRV3-OCP & 
v/kOmpOp kosP uoMM vMosmO VC ysRRVMMOR3l $Ja6j4YF0e_q_
VC 8oMO
8koRsVTpl o55VCogMOl RVmVl
q gOCVVUl $RVTM gO 6 gOCVVUp om3 
o kCsLo3O Omjl 6m 5MVVCl mOoC uh1l 
6 5sCOkMoROpl gOoT3s5TM mo3TCoM MsA-3smA 
p3VLOl sp-,op-OCl -Oo30RVm3CVMMO 
5CVU 3-sp Tms3l kTgMsR 3CompkVC3o3sVm o3 
5CVm3 VVCl goMRVmfl p3VCoAO om 
MoTmCf CVVU sm gopOUOm3P
G-VmO& 8P xVCom uVM,OMM :omNOC 
q640aeJJl 4qq0IaJe
hspROMMomOVTp
'p 3-O 5OoC V5 COWOR3sVm RCskkMsmA fVT 
MVLOBpVRsoM Ms5O\ rOoCm -V, 3V RVkO l 
,s3- s3 TpsmA 3-O UO3-Vp V5 uVAms3s 
GpfR-V3-OCokfP q6 koAO gVVN gf 
kpfR-VMVAsp3 5VC nF 3V qDG0ual G0e0 
:V/ Iaeqql Gs33pgTCA-l Gt aF6a4P
8-ofpsO :VVN v/R-omAO(uCOs3 
5VC 9ToMs3f kokOCgoRNpP b-VTpomp V 
-oM50kCsRO kokOCgoRNp Vm oMM pTgWOR3pP 
FIaF vMMp,VC3- tLOmTOP G-VmO q_q0 
JJ6_P
Please send Classifieds to The Tai ton 
Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Call 268-211 
for more information.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Il(no 8p m8sIosI9
yOMo/smA o3 uh1& o RVm3CosR3sVm sm 3OCUp\PPPkoAO 6
'h kCVACoU OmWVfp pTRROppPPPkoAO q
dfkmVpsp ,VCNp PPPgT3 s3 spm3 UoAsRPPPkoAO J
D-f fVT p-VTMm3 AV 3V ^of3VmoPPPkoAO _
xTp3 3-smN 3,sROPPPPPPkoAO _
zO3 pVUO 5CsOmpl AV pVUO,-OCO PPPom COo 3-O 5smO kCsm3PPPkoAO 4
uOm3OC pkCOo& AVV5smA V55PPPROm3OC
hop3OC 3-O oC3 V5 RCOo3sLO pMOOksmAPPPkoAO ae
hOs3o3sVm spm3 ,-o3 fVT 3-smN s3 spPPPkoAO aa
dV, 3V 5sm Cosom3 3TC9TVspO ,o3OCpPPPkoAO a6
vLOCfVmO ,om3p 3V AV 3V bsUgTN3TPPPkoAO aq
sps3 3-O Gs33pgTCARTM3TCoM pROmOPPPkoAO aJ
tLOCoAO LoRo3sVm ofp sm UoWVC Rs3sOpPPPkoAO aF
donl3,sg lI yEw0 l m8sIulM,mI,8s ,s Iou59)
People really need to relax. Without relaxation, things that 
used to come easily often become difficult. They need recre
ation  literally "recreating" energy and restoring a "sense of 
resources" so they can return to work feeling more refreshed.
"In a place where the demands are so great, having a place 
to relax and recreate is important," says Ed Lilley of the Coun
seling Center. "So many people obviously know how to work, 
but don't know how to relax. The balancing act is making sure 
there are periods of time to set the work aside, set a space and 
time to really let go, and use your energy in an entirely differ
ent mode."
CMU often sends less-than-subtle messages that relaxation 
is not really so important. "It's tough to monitor [relaxation] in 
a place so motivated," Lilley laments. "I was in the habit of 
going every day to swim or run, and one day I saw a student in 
the gym [running] laps while reading The Tartan." There are 
other signals  like the fact that the pool is generally reserved 
for doing laps, with no lanes for just "playing around." Or the 
lack of any central conversation place on campus  even Grey 
Matter is more of an "arena." And finally, there's Andrew 
Carnegie's famous slogan, immortalized in stained glass in 
Baker Hall: "My heart is in the work."
Things are getting better, according to Lilley. Recently 
more benches have been placed along the sidewalks, particu
larly near Baker Hall, and the soon-to-be-built University 
Center should further improve things.
For people under particular tension, Lilley uses special 
relaxation techniques. He suggests that they slow themselves 
down through breathing, then center their thoughts on an 
internal "tranquil scene ... where nothing is going to happen 
that's a surprise." Some people follow a special ritual each 
night before going to sleep to let go of the day's tensions.
Other ways to relax include exercise, particularly walking, 
which, according to the Counseling Center, "provides condi
tions for thinking through a problem." Even more helpful can 
be scheduling activities to allow an even balance between 
studying and socializing.
The Counseling Center offers assistance to students with 
stress-related problems, including problems with relaxation. It 
is located in Morewood E-103 (across the hall from Health 
Services), and can be reached at x2922.
by Charles Sabatos 
Tartan Staffwriter
2 2~J\-neg-g2
LOC KSl

---------------------------------------------------

E Hu8gul5 osc8h9 9Fmmo99
Relaxation can mean a great number of things, depending 
on who you ask. For an ever-growing number of Carnegie 
Mellon students, however, relaxation involves getting out on 
the basketball court, playing a game of chess, or participating in 
any of a number of sports offered by Carnegie Mellon's intra
mural program. Intramural athletics are definitely on the rise at 
Carnegie Mellon. Last year, team or individual participation 
records were set in 18 of the 40 sports offered, and nine records 
have already fallen so far this year.
There are many advantages to intramural athletics, accord
ing to IM Director Earl J. Birdy. According to Birdy, it not only 
gives students a chance to keep physically fit, but it also 
provides students with an opportunity to meet students outside 
their majors. "Unfortunately, here at Carnegie Mellon, we're 
very departmentalized," he said, "and people tend to stay 
within their own groups. An opportunity is provided by the 
intramural department for people to meet, play with and enjoy 
the company of other students."
The program has come a long way since Birdy came to 
CMU. "The biggest change has been in the number of students 
that participate in our program. When I first started here in 
1951, we had maybe 20 or 25 basketball teams; this year we 
have 108 basketball teams."
Other major changes cited by Birdy are higher female 
participation and more activities  from eight up to the current 
number of 40. However, the intramural program still has a few 
bugs in the system; availability of facilities is the big problem 
Birdy currently has to deal with.
"Our biggest problem right now is facilities," he said. "For 
us to maintain the excellent program we have now, we need 
more facilities to allow for the number of games and teams.
With the completion of the East Campus Project, some of that 
burden is relieved, but our biggest problem is scheduling 
activities within the realm of the facilities that are available."
Why has the program been so successful over the years? 
First of all, Birdy feels that the high resident population at 
Carnegie Mellon has helped. In schools with a high commuter 
population, the interest in intramural athletics isn't as great.
The lack of a formal recreation program also helps fuel the 
intramural program. "Students need an outlet, and intramurals 
become their recreation program," he said. "If they go sign up a 
basketball team, they know they're going to play four or five 
games and at least have a place to play. If they just go to the 
gym on a Saturday afternoon and try to find a hoop to shoot 
baskets, it's very, very difficult."
One of the biggest potential dangers of intramural athletics 
is that competitiveness might get in the way of having a good 
time. Carnegie Mellon's intramural program avoids that pitfall 
well because it's broken down into categories. "In the major 
league, many of the players have the ability to play varsity, but 
don't have the time, so it's good competition," said Birdy. "In 
intermediate competition, many players have played high 
school, but it's still not on par with the majors. In the minors, 
it's just for fun. People go out and try their best, but they're 
mostly there to have a good time. Last, but not least, there's the 
women's only league, where participation has really picked 
up."
But how is the average student supposed to find time in a 
busy Carnegie Mellon schedule? According to Birdy, that's no 
problem. "You have to budget your time; we figure it takes an 
hour and 45 minutes," he said. "You get an hour of physical 
activity, 15 minutes to get ready for that activity, and half an 
hour to cool down and get back at your desk. I think that's 
valuable time, and if students realized that, they'd have no 
problem managing their time to include that in their sched
ules."
The biggest reason the Carnegie Mellon program is grow
ing so well is by word of mouth. "People come out and have a 
good experience," said Birdy, "and that's all we really want. 
We'd like to have everyone play hard and play to win, but 
everyone really wins. You get to work off some stress, and you 
have a good time. There aren't too many opportunities like this 
on this campus for students to have a good time."
by Jason McDonald 
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
DO YOU Kwow 
WHAT J DO To REi-Ax ?
Do you KtiOvJ ? 
DO YOU KMOW ?
do you Kriovi ?
Will Oth
2~J\-neg'-2 3

---------------------------------------------------

Hypnosis w@rIcsHBE
Listen to me. Close your eyes. Take a couple of deep breaths, just 
breathe deep, breathe in deep. Now, when you breathe out imagine 
that your exhaling all the tension in your body. Keep your eyes closed. 
Listen only to my voice. Relax. Listen only to my voice.
Are you sleepy yet? This is the beginning of one relaxation 
technique that hypnotists A1 Fitzpatrick and Bill King use as an 
exercise to relax their group and help them let go of their 
reservations, tension and tightness, as well as to allow people to 
become more familiar with their voices.
Fitzpatrick and King run weekly meetings on Monday 
nights to research hypnosis and other powers of the mind, and 
some outstanding things have happened at their meetings.
"One week we hypnotized someone and then woke up every
thing except his hand. He looks over, his hand is hanging in 
midair, and he doesn't think anything's amiss-/' said 
Fitzpatrick.
But they are not showmen, and they don't do it to make 
money or sell books. "It's just a pet idea between A1 and 
myself," said King.
"We have two reasons for being here," said Fitzpatrick. 
"One, we want to research this because it's a fascinating area of 
the mind, and two, we hope that some people get helped along 
the way. We want to see what this phenomena is that appar
ently defies normal rational thought. We also want to see a 
progression of that application." Hypnosis is more than just a 
tool for self-improvement and relaxation. It is an altered state of 
consciousness that, for the most part, has fallen through the 
cracks of psychological research.
Take one more deep breath. I want you to focus on a particular 
part of the body. Now, concentrate on the foot. Concentrate on the 
right foot and the toes. Now tense up your right foot. Tense up your 
toes. One, two, tighter and tighter. Three. Release the tension. Feel the 
comfort of relaxing. Feel the blood rushing back in.
While relaxation techniques are not actually hypnosis, they 
are on the lower level of a continuum. 'They allow people to be 
at ease so that their mental facilities aren't tied up in knots and 
they can move more freely," said King. He places phenomena 
such as ESP or direct mind transfer, i.e. reading of minds, on 
the other end of the spectrum. Most of the meetings involve 
hypnotic trances and intuition, which would fall somewhere in 
between these two extremes.
Now, concentrate on your right calf and thigh. Tense up your 
right leg. Tense up the muscles, real tight. One, two, tighter and 
tighter. Three. Relax. Relax the muscles. Let it fall.
Hypnosis allows the mind a clarity of thinking that is not 
possible with all the distractions in daily life. It also allows a 
person to have a sharp memory. "You don't realize how 
shallow your ability to recall is," said King, "but in a session a 
person can go back and see something with great clarity." The
potential powers of the mind are part of the fascination for 
King and Fitzpatrick, and they hope that this group will give 
them a chance to pursue more serious research. "When I talk 
about research," said Fitzpatrick, "I mean regression, possibly 
even to a past life, or ESP experiments. [If] I hypnotize you and 
tell you that you are looking at a newspaper with tomorrow's 
date on it, can you tell me what the headline says? That is 
research of a higher mind dimension."
One of the things King and Fitzpatrick mentioned that is on 
the edge of the believable is past life regression. "One man," 
said Fitzpatrick, "saw a vision while he was under hypnosis, 
and it had a name, somewhere in western Pennsylvania. He 
described a picture of an old farmhouse and a road going up, 
everything, in color and detail as if he were part of it. He and 
his wife spent a month looking it up, found the location, and 
when they went there, it was just as he'd seen it. The question 
is, is that evidence of past life or evidence of tapping some 
mind dimension? He had never been there before in his life. 
Where did he get that knowledge?"
Focus on your left foot. Focus on the toes. Tense up your toes. 
Tense up your foot. As tight as you can. One, two, tighter and tighter. 
Three. Relax. Relax the foot. Feel the relief. Relax. Feel the relief.
Fitzpatrick stressed that these are the areas they would like 
to explore with a steady group of people, but they are unable to 
do so right now because new people are always coming in. 
Before they do anything too serious, they want to make sure the 
group is comfortable with each other and has a rapport with 
the hypnotist.
'The main focus of the meetings is the techniques of 
hypnotism," said King. These techniques very often apply in 
our everyday lives, from advertising to knowing how someone 
will react to a tone of voice. "When you use these techniques in 
the real world," said King, "you realize how you can affect 
people by speaking slowly and repeating, and repeating, you 
can make an impact. The mind does a double take because it is 
trying to anticipate the next word, so [the person you're talking 
to] remembers that."
Now focus on your abdominal region. Tense up your abdominal 
muscles. Tense them up. Tighter. One, tzuo, tighter. Three. Relax. 
Relax the muscles. Breathe deeply. Relax the muscles.
Fitzpatrick and King also explain little tricks of hypnosis 
that a regular hypnotist wouldn't, because then they wouldn't 
be as effective. For example, at this meeting, he told the group 
to clasp their hands tightly together with the two pointer 
fingers extended and an inch apart. King repeated slowly, 
"Stare at the tips of your fingers. Your fingers are getting closer 
and closer, they are being drawn together." King explained that 
this is a subliminal trick because when you clasp your hands 
together tightly enough, your fingers will physically be pulled
4 2~J\-neg'-e2

---------------------------------------------------

(FI ,I ,9sI 5lg,m
by Jennifer Kerstein 
Tartan Contributing Editor
together. "But that's a hook/' said King, "because it convinces 
them, 'Wow, I just believed [my fingers would be drawn 
together and they were]/ and they go down to the next level of 
hypnosis."
Tense up your jaw. Clench your teeth together. Feel your face get 
tighter and tighter. One, two, tighter, tighter. Three. Relax. Relax the 
muscles. Feel the blood rush back.-Feel the relief. Take a deep breath.
Some of the other influences that King mentioned are 
height and dark colors, which represent authority. One of the 
reasons supermarkets are having their employees stand on sixinch high platforms is to prevent stealing. Many of the hypnotic 
methods tie into real life in little ways like this. "Not to say 
these are examples of trance state hypnosis," said Fitzpatrick, 
"but these are elements of suggestion at work."
"If you can see it then you are a little bit free of it, and your 
life can begin to change," said King.
When you come out of this you will feel relaxed. Tonight, you 
will go home and have a good night's sleep. You will fall asleep easily 
and quickly. But you will also wake up in the morning easily and 
feeling refreshed. You will be able to go to this stage of relaxation 
whenever I say, "Relax now." You will go directly to this level of 
relaxation.
One of the more dramatic examples from a past session 
was a woman who always felt an uneasy feeling when she 
looked back to her childhood, but never knew why. They took 
her back to when she was four years old and she relived an 
experience of being held by her mother while her uncle burned 
her. "What's the proof?" asks Fitzpatrick. "She showed us the 
bum mark on her back. Now she can get on with her life."
The Hypnosis Research Group is presenting an introduc
tory lecture on "Powers of the Mind, Secrets of Behavior" on 
Friday, March 15 at 7 pm, at the Friends Meeting House in 
Shadyside. They are also sponsoring Richard Rose, a master 
hypnotist and mentalist, for an informal discussion and demon
stration of the mysteries of hypnosis and the suggestibility of 
the human mind. Rose is a noted author and lecturer on the 
subject of hypnosis and mentalism. The talk will take place 
Friday, March 22 at 7 pm, and will also be at the Friends 
Meeting House in Shadyside. The cost is $3. For more informa
tion call 268-1768 in the evening.
Now I am going to count to 10 backwards. When I reach one you 
will be awake and alert. Ten, nine, eight, seven, begin to move your 
fingers, shift your legs, six, five, four, begin to open your eyes slowly, 
three, two, one. You should now be awake.
2~J\-neg'-62 5

---------------------------------------------------

Ceh h8F 9e8FnMsI g8 I8 UlhI8sl
It's spring break and you want to go somewhere. But 
where? Quickly thinking back to the past few weeks of MTV, 
you remember Daytona Beach, the place to be during spring 
break.
But think  spring break is that time we college students 
take off to get away from it all, and to be lazy people with no 
responsibilities. You pay enough to get wherever you want to . 
go, so you should get what you want.
Sorry to say, but Daytona Beach, or any glorified place for 
the "spring breaker," is not the place to go. Most of these places 
are filled with heavy partiers and even more police.
These aren't normal heavy partiers, either. These are 
drunken fools who each have the ambition to be the first person 
to down two cases of beer, then beat up the next person that 
first crosses his or her path. For the underage person, there 
aren't many attractions, other than the female bikini and male 
Speedo contests.
If you happen to get past the partiers, it will probably be 
because you ran into a police officer. Because of the tendency of 
spring breakers to go completely overboard, the police have 
compensated by going overboard as well. They act like your 
parents, and will arrest you if you look at them the wrong way. 
You can't blame them for not liking spring breakers  from 
their perspective, it's just a bunch of rowdy teenagers acting 
like idiots and creating havoc.
If you are dead set on going to a spring break place, look 
into places that aren't so well known, or are harder to get to.
The extra effort should be worth it. The Bahamas are beautiful, 
as are the Virgin Islands. And don't forget Mexico. Florida, as 
far as spring break, just isn't the place to go.
An even better idea would be to get a bunch of your friends 
together and decide on someplace all of you have wanted to go. 
The Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Texas, skiing in New Mexico 
or Colorado, the West Coast, or Oregon, a beautiful state for 
camping and hiking, just to name a few. And you could always 
drive down to a California beach for a couple of days.
Hopefully, these suggestions will get you thinking about 
someplace you want to go, not an overpriced, oversold tourist 
trap. Whatever you decide, have a safe, fun vacation.
by Richard Robinson 
Tartan Stafjwriter
PF9I Ie,s I1,moXXX
Spring Break. Beaches. Cool guys and hot gals. Miles of 
beaches. Californian beaches? No, Florida's the place to be 
we're told  the capital fun-city of the college world. So where 
does the following scenario fit in?
In 1986, 800,000 or so college students bombarded Ft. 
Lauderdale, Daytona Beach and Miami for spring break. By the 
end of the season, seven students had met with violent deaths, 
almost 2,000 of them were arrested (up from a mere 889 in 
1985) and hundreds had crowded local hospitals for treatment 
of cuts, broken arms, sprains or sunburns. Because of the 
disappointingly wet weather, energy had been focused indoors, 
and hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damage was 
done to the many hotels, motels and living accommodations in 
the beach towns. The fun-in-the-sun reputation of these towns 
had turned sour.
Five years ago, Ft. Lauderdale paid the highest price for 
carrying the brunt of the "spring breaker" population. City 
officials wised up and put their foot down. Florida's drinking 
age was raised to 21. Drinking was prohibited on the streets 
and beaches. To prevent revelers from wandering from the bars 
into traffic, there was municipal effort to build a four-and-ahalf foot high concrete wall along the Bravard Strip.
Since spring break of 1987, the number of collegians during 
spring break in Ft. Lauderdale has dwindled between only 
12,000 to 15,000. The Bravard Strip officials aren't interested 
anymore in wooing the money-skimping collegiate crowd that 
spends on average only $400 per person throughout the break, 
but prefer instead the upscale Europeans who spend $2,000 
each for shorter stopovers.
So where is the college crowd going if Ft. Lauderdale is old 
news? Where else but Daytona, right? It's the place to go for 
action, people say. Daytona Beach is taking over the torch that 
Fort Lauderdale bore for so long. But can it avoid the ugly 
statistics marking the deaths and decadent behavior that 
plagued these beach towns before? Will Daytona survive what 
Ft. Lauderdale couldn't... or will America's college students 
prove too much for this beach town to handle? And will the 
images formed by those revelers' hoping for a fun, safe, spring 
break by the beach just shrivel up in the sun? Let's not be there 
to find out...
by Azleena Salleh 
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor
(5 2~J\-neg'-e2

---------------------------------------------------

BoI 985o pu,osM9J g8 985o1eouo
...and read the fine print
Advertisements displaying tanned and scantily-clad men 
and women on the beach start beckoning to freezing students 
around January and February. Cheap spring getaways start 
sounding really inviting  Cancn, Jamaica, Barbados and 
other sunny places sound like a slice of heaven compared to 
CMU's frosty climate.
Only $229, the ads scream. The figure quickly approaches 
$300, however, with taxes and little "extra" costs. Nevertheless,
$300 is a pretty good deal for a week of sun and sand.
Last spring break, my friend Edie went to Cancn with two 
other female friends for $330 apiece  the price included 
airfare, taxes, and a hotel accommodations for seven days. The 
flight they took with Mexicana Airlines was filled with other 
college students  like a fraternity party in the air.
Once in Cancn, the travellers went to their hotel, the 
Hacienda. Built like a mission, the hotel was fairly nice, new, 
and clean. But you know what they say about real estate  it 
all depends on location, location, and location. Without a beach 
in sight, the Hacienda was hardly in a prime location. The hotel 
was located smack dab in the middle of all of downtown 
Cancun's restaurants and businesses.
You see, they forgot to read the fine print. The flyers 
showed only photographs of beach-front hotels, so my friends 
never bothered to ask about their hotel's proximity to the 
ocean.
Eventually, they worked things out. They discovered they 
could take a taxi to the beach for just $2. They even found a 
room key to the beach-front Sheraton and, pretending to be 
guests, they took advantage of the pool facilities all week.
For the most part, though, the vacation was boring. The 
area was not well-populated, because, my friends guessed, 
others had read the fine print and paid more to stay closer to 
the beach. Also, most schools let out for spring break earlier 
than CMU, so it was difficult to meet people.
My friends had been swayed to take the trip by the enticing 
offers of parties, scuba diving, and tours mentioned in the 
vacation brochure, but they were disappointed to find none of 
these activities available at the resort. They became victims of 
misleading, deceptive advertising.
Stranded tor a week without any plans, my friends decided 
to make the most of their predicament. They walked around 
the city, went to open markets, and spent a lot of lazy time on 
the beach. They even caught a boat ride to an island a few miles 
off the coast of the Yucatn Peninsula and wandered through 
villages where women and children sold trinkets and jewelry.
Later in the week, they got even more creative and rented a 
car to go take a look at the nearby Maya Indian ruins. They 
were fascinated by the pyramids adorned with stairs and little 
designs, some of which were alligator heads, for example. On 
the way to the ruins, they passed some small children playing.
Touring the ruins was actually a refreshing and the most 
foreign experience they had all week, since the Cancn area 
was so touristy and predominantly American.
Inevitably, one of them got sick (on the fourth day), al
though some religiously avoided the water, fruits and veg
etables, and juice contaminated by bacteria, and also by the ^y Shizuka Otake
pesticides the Mexicans use. Even the salsa was off limits, Tartan Staffioriter
ID LIKE A MEMBER Of 
THE OPPOlT tfX 
WITH LETTUCE,
TOMflTOf
KmNesiM ur GO,
PLE/bE.
4rSkibo
TO
FLORIDA
D U
because it sat out on the tables all day and attracted flies and 
various other creatures. But sickness caught up with one of 
them, and she was sick for the rest of the week.
They did have some fun  they had a chance to try out 
some of their Spanish and get some rays, but looking back, the 
travellers wished they went with more friends, and chose less 
of a tourist trap, so they could have experienced more of the 
culture and language.
So, sunworshippers, a few words of caution: read the fine 
print and know what you're getting into before it's too late to 
turn back. And for you Mexico-bound travellers, don't drink the 
water.
2~J\-neg'-2 ~J

---------------------------------------------------

goofing off!
Remember back in high school when cutting classes was 
the "cool" thing to do? Well, now you're in college, where 
you're away from your parents and get to make your own 
decisions. Here, not only can you cut class and get away with it, 
cutting is practically encouraged.
Think back to the first week of lectures and how crowded 
the classrooms were. There probably weren't enough seats for 
everyone and some people has to sit on the floor or on the 
stairs.
Envision what that same class looks like today. There's 
plenty of room for everyone, seats are empty here and there, 
and the last few rows most likely don't have a soul in them.
You see, the administration knows that a good percentage 
of students are going to cut class, so, in turn, the "over-enroll." 
The only problem comes at test time, because everyone shows 
up for a test.
However, most professors are experienced and know to 
handle this crisis  they split the class up into several rooms. 
Doing so not only makes more space in between students, 
preventing them from cheating, but it covers up the 
administration's over-enrollment error. Everyone's happy in 
the end.
Now comes the question of whether or not to attend a 
lecture. To answer this question, try some simple arithmetic. 
When you went to high school, it cost you nothing (unless you 
went to private school, but that's your fault). You parents paid 
for your schooling out of local taxes.
Now that you go to college, however, it's costing you a 
minimum of 14 grand (not including room and board, meal 
plan, books, probably a computer, etcetera) for just one single 
year. That comes out to $7,000 per semester.
Now figure that you probably have five classes per week 
(costing you $1,400 per class per semester) for 15 weeks ($93 
per week) that probably meet two or three times a week 
(around $38 per class). What that means in the long run is that 
each class you miss could have bought you three CDs. Not a 
very pleasant thought, is it?
Well, while you're out there cutting class because you're 
sleeping late, can't tear yourself away from that game on your 
computer, or recovering from that nasty hangover from the 
night before, look on the bright side  at least you're getting 
the most out of your room and board.
by Stephen Glicker 
Tartan Diversions Editor
8 \kar-Peg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

(5 \3-,3n-JB5{\

---------------------------------------------------

El9Iou Ieo luI 8pp muolI,io 9nooH,sg
sleep (slep) n. 1. the natural recurring condition of rest in 
animals, in which there is unconciousness with the nervous 
system inactive and muscles relaxed.
 Oxford American Dictionary
Millions of years ago, after God burned off an awful lot of 
calories creating heaven, earth, life, electricity, and trigonom
etry, He decided He was tired. Thus, along with the first 
Sabbath, God invented sleep.
This 40 winks was your basic Gee-I'm-so-exhausted-I-can'tstand-it-anymore snooze. Nevertheless, the concept caught on 
in a flash, and remains one of earth's most popular activities. 
Sleep has evolved into an art form which boasts over 70 known 
varieties. Some of these, such as the One-eye-open guardnap, 
can only be accomplished after years of practice and medita
tion. Others, including the Wake-me-up-when-the-plague-isover coma, have become obsolete, except in a few isolated third 
world pockets. Still other forms of sleep, like hibernation, are 
trademarked by certain members of the animal kingdom.
However, many variations remain available to the novice. 
Some of the ways that sound impressive are surprisingly easy 
to learn. The art of creative sleeping has suffered from the 
popular misconception that the only "proper" time to sleep is 
somewhere between 9 pm and 8 am. As infants, night watch
men, and college students know, this is simply not true. Sleep 
can and should be experienced at all times of the day and night. 
Following the instructions below, in a few days even a chronic 
insomniac will amaze him or herself with the ability to fall 
asleep anytime, anyplace, any way.
The Basic Nocturnal Sleep. You had a stressful day at 
work or school. You already ate your Hungry Man frozen 
Salisbury steak and mashed potatoes dinner hours ago. Johnny 
Carson is over and you just can't stomach David Letterman 
tonight. The latest issue of Newsweek hasn't arrived yet. There's 
only one thing you can do. You turn out the light, crawl under 
the covers, and close your eyes.
The basic nocturnal is the oldest and most common repre
sentative of the sleep repertoire. While not particularly imagi
native, regular applications can be beneficial to your health. 
Without habitual practice of this condition, bodily organs and 
muscles would soon wear themselves out from overexertion. 
Sessions can also be used to enhance your mental well-being. 
One variant recommended by psychologists utilizes the sleepon-it technique, in which you ponder a particular problem or 
decision before nodding off, and, upon waking in the morning, 
the solution magically manifests itself.
The Basic Catnap. Perpetually somnolent Garfield is the 
clear expert in the catnap catagory. This feline connoisseur has 
been known to nap standing on one front leg. He does, how
ever, prefer a comfy snooze curled up in his favorite basket. A 
prospective catnapper would do well to emulate the tabby's 
constant "at-ease" position.
To transform your sleeping bed into a napping bed, simply 
rumple the covers enough to create intriguing hollows and 
tunnels. Proceed to burrow into the covers head first, turn 
around two or three times, then curl up into a fetal position. 
Think feline thoughts, and you'll be napping in no time. 
Catnaps are best enjoyed in the afternoon, between your last
class and dinnertime  who does homework then anyway?
The Lecture/Staff Meeting Doze. Once in a while, your 
school or office will have the nerve to cut into your precious 
sleeping time by scheduling a lecture class or staff meeting at 
some ungodly hour, like 8:30 am. As if that weren't bad 
enough, they've invited an octogenarian expert of something as 
the guest speaker. You are fully within your rights to protest 
these indignities by picking up your snooze where you left off. 
The tricky part is protesting so your boss or professor doesn't 
notice  this is an internal protest.
Have reading material on hand  the class assignment or 
the meeting agenda will do nicely  to place directly in front of 
you on the desk. Arrange yourself comfortably enough that you 
can relax and contemplate the paper simultaneously. Resting 
your elbow on the desk with your chin in your palm to prop 
your head up is a good ploy. Let yourself doze off, being 
extremely careful not to snore. Snoring is a dead giveaway. If 
you're lucky, a friendly colleague will give you a nudge when 
the session is over  unless you're not the only one who 
decided to demonstrate.
Insomnia. Let's face it. If you're not tired, you're not going 
to fall asleep. Period. So, as long as you're sleepless, why not 
accomplish something? Be productive. Start that report that's 
due in two weeks; pay your bills; clean your oven. Chances are, 
as soon as you begin your project, somnolence will set m.
Before you know it, your muscles will be relaxed, your nervous 
system will be inactive, and your mind will be in that altered 
state of consciousness known as sleep.
by Teri Lynn Breier 
Special to The Tartan
Ed. Note Breier, who grauated from CMU in 1986, wrote this 
while she was a student here. She hopes to expand this article into a 
novel someday.
IQ 2~J\-neg'-e2

---------------------------------------------------

EoM,IlI,8s ,9sI 1elI h8F Ie,s ,I ,9
The idea of meditating might seem strange. It has been 
traditionally stereotyped as an activity reserved for spiritual 
leaders, wise men, and people who endure no end of ridicule, 
like Shirley MacLaine. Most of us without the benefit of higher 
guidance have been content to relax and clear our minds when 
we hit the pillow. But when sleep isn't enough, when those 
unresolved problems start appearing in your dreams or you 
wake up feeling less than refreshed, meditation might be just 
what you need.
Sergeant William Ricci of CMU Campus Police, who also 
teaches an accredited martial arts class here on campus, learned 
about meditation as a part of his studies in the traditional art of 
Tang Soo Do. "It'll rejuvenate you," said Ricci, "and make your 
thinking clear. People who practice this, in conjunction with a 
good diet and exercise, live long, healthful lives."
If you're a beginner, there's no need to worry about medita
tion being some kind of complicated process. "It doesn't have to 
be formal," said Ricci. He recommends starting with a quiet 
environment with no distractions. "All meditation should be 
accompanied by deep, abdominal breathing," said Ricci. You 
should be sitting cross-legged with your back straight, and your 
shoulders should be in line with your torso; all of your organs 
will be vertically aligned, and your breathing won't be blocked.
The simplest meditating involves a state of complete
emptiness. Relax, clear all thoughts from your mind, and 
breathe deeply. Breathe in through your nose, and imagine the 
air dropping to your feet. As you exhale, make sure that your 
breaths are quiet and deliberate, not forced.
Ricci also suggests another method. Imagine a lake at the 
foot of a snow-capped mountain. The water is calm, and there 
is a perfect reflection of the mountain in the water. The scene is 
one of perfect harmony. As you concentrate on the scene, your 
breathing should be "rhythmic and slow." Imagine that as you 
breathe in, a wisp of smoke travels in through your nose, down 
your back, and to the center of your lower abdomen, where it 
coils into a ball. When you exhale, the wisp uncoils, floats 
down to your feet, back up your back, and finally out through 
your head.
Once you've had enough experience meditating, you can 
perform these techniques with your eyes open, and concentrate 
on a specific area in front of you. There are many ways of 
meditating; eventually you will find a method which is the 
most comfortable for you. So the next time you need to relax, 
close the door, clear some space on the floor, and enjoy the 
silence.
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
w
2~\-neg-e2 \ \

---------------------------------------------------

.81 I8 p,sM ulM,lsI IFuRF8,9o 1lIou9
With spring break just around the corner, traveling seems 
to be on everyone's mind. Well, maybe not traveling as much as 
getting away and just relaxing and forgetting about everything. 
But for college students, funds are not exactly abundant and 
they can barely afford to go downtown. If traveling is what you 
had in mind and you're conscientious about, or lacking, money, 
the cheapest thing to do is to pile as many of your friends as 
you can in a car and drive down to the sun. Then either mooch 
off of someone you know with a house there or split a hotel 
room with 14 people.
Take a look at what the travel agents had to offer this year. 
The cheapest place to look is Student Travel Services on South 
Craig Street, which offers package deals for two to five people, 
and most of the packages will take you somewhere warm. 
Among the offers is a seven night stay in Panama City Beach, 
Florida for $129. This includes "fewer hassles, more fun, great 
beaches, non-stop night life and activities, as well as various 
discounts at stores and nightclubs."
The brochures go into a lot more detail  they show 
pictures of lounging people, list all the different options that 
Florida offers, and tell you that there's more there than just the 
sun. The only problem with this offer is that you have to take a 
bus to get there. You can also go to Mexico (to "experience 
Cancun's radiant turquoise waters or Acapulco's incomparable 
night life") starting from $429. The prices change depending on 
where you want to stay, how many people are going with you, 
and how long you are staying.
There is another trip that goes to Jamaica (Montego Bay or 
Negril, "the hottest spring break destinations"). The prices for 
these trips start from $459. Both of these packages include 
round-trip airfare, seven-night accommodations, parties and 
concerts, and all hotel taxes. It seems like a lot of money, but it 
really isn't considering the fact that this is for a prime travel 
season. It7s also much better than deals a lot of other places 
offer. Just remember to be careful and read the brochures 
carefully so that you know exactly what's included and, more 
importantly, what isn't. There is nothing worse than those 
unnecessary surprises, like realizing that you only have a one
way ticket.
Craig Street features two other travel agents  Peoples 
Travel Agency and Forum Travel Agency. If you thought the
prices already mentioned were high, don't get your hopes up 
now. The brochures even have color pictures. Most of the 
options that are in the "student price range" (meaning there is a 
chance you will be able to afford it) are to Florida. You can go 
anywhere from Walt Disney World to Miami Beach for the full 
seven days for anywhere from $329 to $825. They also offer 
packages to the Bahamas for about $320, but only for a threenight stay. The price changes for these packages can get as high 
as $1117. The best part of using one of these travel agents is that 
you're assured of a really nice place because it doesn't cater 
directly to students(i.e. part of the charge covers maid, pool and 
bellman charges). The bad part is, well, you have to pay for it.
Whenever vacations roll around, everyone starts heading 
for the sun in hopes of renewing his or her tan. If you know 
what you're doing, have fun and don't get sunburned. At a 
school like ours, you need to get away once in a while and do 
something totally mindless. And if you can't afford the trip, it's 
kind of fun to go look at the brochures, drool over the pictures, 
and dream. If you're really bored, you can stay and make fun of 
brochure jargon like "radiant turquoise waters," and try to 
convince yourself that you'd rather stay in Pittsburgh anyway.
by Sarah Hamilton 
Tartan Stajfiuriter
pluo1onn f?|---------------------------------
If you haven't already made travel arrangements with a 
travel agent by the time you read this, forget about a package 
deal. Not only are most of the flights to popular spring break 
destinations already booked, the seats that are available will 
cost you a lot more than the attractive fares above.
"It's hard to say without looking at a specific booking," said 
Terry Demobowski, a travel agent at Peoples Travel Agency. But 
Demobowski estimated that a trip to Florida that would have 
cost about $500 in January, for example, can cost as much as 
$700 now.
12 2~\-neg'-e2

---------------------------------------------------

Everyone wants to go to Timbuktu
Everyone dreams of traveling to Timbuktu. Its mythical 
association with the mysterious and unknown attracts foreign
ers  body and soul  to the country of Mali.
Let me tell you a story.
Two natives of Timbuktu stood on the Dugon cliffs in 
Bandiagara, Mali. Around them danced the local Dugon 
villagers, lighting the night with their rythmic chants. The man, 
inches from the cliff's edge, pondered the jagged rocks below. 
His wife waited. She wore the flowing boubou dress of native 
Malians.
"I want to leave Timbuktu," he said. The villagers danced. 
The jagged rocks beckoned. Loudly his wife tore open her 
handbag and spilled its contents across the cliff face  ostrich 
egg shells, half-eaten salt blocks, and travel guides to Greece, 
Japan, Switzerland, and China. From beneath her hat she 
produced guides to Denmark and Finland; between the folds of 
her dress she held a guide to Italy. Her husband backed away 
from his suicide plunge. "Hand me Italy," he cried.
When a native of Timbuktu chooses to vacation abroad it is 
a noteworthy event, for he already lives where all mankind 
wishes to visit. This couple, therefore, carefully selected San 
Francisco and Italy because they are "a lot like Timbuktu."
San Francisco is a chaotic, exciting place for Malians and 
San Franciscans alike. The couple from Timbuktu, John and 
Susan, visited a dozen restaurants; they ate at the Hard Rock 
Cafe, where a Lebanese waiter scuffled with John Travolta's 
sister; the Hunan Restaurant, voted best Hunan restaurant of 
the West; and North Beach Restaurant, where the Italian cuisine 
was exquisite. For three days they ate the thin-skinned dump
lings at Pot Sticker and ran stiff-legged past The Hippo. They 
discoed at Disco 2001, sipped morning cocktails at the Crown 
Room  29 stories above terra firma  lounged in the Japanese 
Tea Garden deep within Golden Gate Park, and saturated 
themselves in the Kabuki Hot Springs. At the Punch Line, they 
sent great wads of Timbuktu currency to the stage with re
quests for camel puns. They walked through Ghirardelli Square 
and John wondered aloud at the number and quality of people 
in the city. In Timbuktu, a city of just 7,000 people, the "Blue 
Men of the Desert," with skin stained by the indigo dyes used 
in their turbans, are the oddest citizens, whereas San Fran 
introduced John to a man who would spit in his ear for a dollar 
and a woman dressed in rubber bands who fondled her life-like 
chia pet.
After leaving Ghirardelli Square, Susan and John spent 
their last hours on Alcatraz Island, thinking of their homeland 
and tossing grapes at the tour guide. San Francisco was lovely 
and hectic and they were eager move on; they hoped Italy 
would be more like Timbuktu, for they missed the desert 
expanses where Dugons dance.
Italy was nothing like Timbuktu. Like San Francisco, there 
were water and people everywhere, and though the dances 
were as pagan as any they could hope to see, the couple 
stumbled through Florence with Timbuktu in their eyes. They 
visited the piano bar at Paradise in Florence and heard magnifi
cent Italian love songs which made them heartsick for the great 
camel caravans of Mali. In the Picizzetta dei Leoni of San Marco 
they peered into the deepest well in Venice.
"It's very deep," Susan said, and it was.
The two natives of Timbuktu stood on a balcony of the 
Central Park disco in Florence. Around them danced couples 
from a myriad of cultures; almost every country in the world 
was represented on the dance floor. But John and Susan looked 
away from the crowd, and off into the distance.
"I want to go to Timbuktu," John said.
You see, a vacation in San Francisco or Europe sounds 
unbelievably exciting, and it is. But everyone dreams of visiting 
Timbuktu.
by Dan Gallagher 
Tartan Staffivriter
Ed. note The events of this fictional story are based on fact; the 
hot spots John and Susan visit exist. And believe it or not, the local 
Dugon villagers really do dance; as a matter of fact, they're well 
known for it.
L KSl
'you jmt MADE IT ^ 
To SPRIW& BREK V 
AT THE UhllVERilTy 
Of CONGO. HOW VO 
Yo Taar r
2~J\-neg'-e2 13

---------------------------------------------------

L,9,I Ieo S,II9(Fuge mFnIFuln 9moso
Every once in a while, the tension of the seemingly endless 
pursuit of knowledge in CMU is broken by the excitement of a 
coming vacation! Having plans that are fun-filled and that get 
you as far away as possible from any CMU academic building 
can generate enough excitement to somehow sustain you 
through almost any workload you're given.
However, if you're anything like me, and keep procrasti
nating about calling travel agents, scouting for good vacation 
packages, comparing prices, and making reservations, you 
might find spring break right around the corner with no plane 
ticket purchased or hotel reservations made. 'That's the price 
of spontaneity," you sigh.
It's times like this, as you try to ignore the noise of your 
roommates and neighbors packing and leaving, that you try to 
persuade yourself, "Hey, spring break in Pittsburgh has got to 
offer some kind of fun." For those of you who have decided (or 
accidentally found) that Pittsburgh's the place for you this 
spring break, fight the I'm-sick-of-this-place blues.
The Greater Pittsburgh Convention & Visitors Bureau
insists that Pittsburgh has action this spring break. Don't forget 
that Pittsburgh's full of culture, but if you're not into that, don't 
exclude the possibility of sports in any one of many parks 
around Pittsburgh, camping, and even exploring the "touristy" 
spots you thought you could always "go see next time."
The publication Pittsburgh To Go! carries a whole lot of 
information about places to visit, shop, dine, camp, and hang 
out. Grab a free copy at the Skibo Information Desk. Call the 24- 
Hour Visitor Information Tape or one of the Visitor Information 
Centers. Try eating at an ethnic restaurant you've never tried 
before. Go to a comedy club. Just don't sit home, vegetate, and 
throw insults at Pittsburgh.
Here are some events during spring break (March 23 to 31) 
that should be considered. Don't eliminate flower shows or 
cruises from your list. Be adventurous!
by Azleena Salleh 
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor
Alison Green
Tartan Magazine Editor
Azleena Salleh
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor 
Staffwriters and other helpful people: 
Jenn Forbes 
Dan Gallagher 
Stephen dicker 
Sarah Hamilton 
Heidi Hoover 
Jen Kerstein 
Jason McDonald 
Chin Oh 
Shizuka Otake 
Dave Pagani 
Rich Robinson 
Charles Sabatos 
Bill Sabram
If youre interested in writing for kamege, call Alison or 
Azleena at x2111. The next meeting will be after spring 
break. 
copyright 1991 The Tartan
exhibitions
k PFMl,m BulHe,m9 WiuF5 W9eouh
b-CVTAhoCR6I o3 3-O xO,spuVUUTms3f uOm3OCP uoMM F6a 0IeaeP
[ E,s,lIFuo dl,nu8lM lsM L,nnlgo
b-CVTAhoCRqa o3 :T-M 8RsOmRO uOm3OCP uoMM 6q40qqqqP
k WM8nHe Eos]on El9Iou Uul1,sg9 pu85 Goun,s 
b-CVTAhoCRqa o3 3-O CsRN tC3 hTpOTUP uoMM q4a 0e_eeP
k E,souln9 8p reo ylusog,o EF9oF5 8p tlIFuln .,9I8uh 
b-CVTAtkCsM ' o3 b-O uoCmOAsO hTpOTU V5 So3TCoM dsp3VCfP uoMM _660 
qaqaP
[ Wume,IomI9 x WuI,plmI9
b-CVTAtkCsM aJ o3 3-O 8VRsO3f 5VC tC3 sm uCo53pP uoMM 6_a 04eeqP
[ VHnl9e 'uls Co(( ClIoum8n8u9
hoCR4 3V tkCsM aI o3 royVR-O uVMMOAO tC3 zoMMOCfP uoMM q_40Y6YYP
[ Cluuos Elmos],o S8IIou
hoCRY 3V hof aY o3 b-O uoCmOAsO hTpOTU V5 tC3P uoMM _660qaqaP
k ,geI bppomI9 ClIoum8n8u9 (h Pls lsM,s, 
hoCRY 3V qa o3 3-O hVmCVOLsMMO GTgMsR rsgCoCfP uoMM q460eFeeP
k 'uls] bueluM ClnIeou Uul1,sg9 and ElgMlnosl 
PoIon8il V,IoAVHom,p,m s9IlnnlI,8s
hoCR66 3V hof F o3 uoCmOAsO hOMMVm tC3 zoMMOCfP
k VHu,sg 'n81ou Ve81
hoCR6F 3V tkCsM 6a o3 G-skkp uVmpOCLo3VCfP uoMM _660_YaJP
k C8u9 by y8sIo5H8uluh WuI,9I9 and VIFMosI Uul1,sg 
(h Eluh a.lul Ulun,sgI8s
hoCR6q 3V tkCsM 6I o3 1msLOCps3f tC3 zoMMOCfl uoMM _JI06JeeP
14 2~\-neg-2

---------------------------------------------------

Average Vacation Days in IWSajor Cities
performing artsspectator sports
? GVsm3 GoCN uVMMOAO b-Oo3CO uVUkomf kCOpOm3p Vlilgo ,s 
w5(8 Q Conm85o I8 Ieo E88s hoCR_ 3V 6J o3 3-O
Gs33pgTCAGMof-VTpOP uoMM _6a0JJJFP
 b-O usMf b-Oo3CO uVUkomf kCOpOm3p olMou 8p Ieo Slm 
hoCR6_ 3V tkCsM 6aP uoMM _6a 0JJJFP
? b-O usMf b-Oo3CO uVUkomf oMpV kCOpOm3p reo d8lM r8 Eomml 
o3 3-O us3f b-Oo3CO hoCR6a 3V tkCsM 6aP VC UVCO sm5V RoMM _6J0 
Grt)P
? b-O Gs33pgTCAckOCo sp kOC5VCUsmA U,o 'noMou5lF9 hoCRa_ 
3V 6JP uoMM 6Ia 0eYa6P
? b-O Gs33pgTCA^omRO uVTmRsM kCOpOm3p 3-O U8Fg bn,s9 
Ulsmo y85Hlsh o3 vf b-Oo3COl u-o3-oU uVMMOAOP hoCR66 
om 6qP G-VmO 3-OU o3 qFF0eqqe 5VC UVCO sm5VP
? b-O hOmOMppV-m u-VsC V5 Gs33pgTCAkOC5VCUp L,osslJ y,Ih 
8p Uuol59 o3 3-O uoCmOAsO hTpsR doMM Vm hoCR6qP 6J60F_FIP
 .o,s] yelHon ye8,u Q Soss VIlIo y8smouI ye8,u 
y8smouI o3 dOsmH u-okOM Vm hoCR6JP uoMM _6J0Ja6_P
[ Po1,9e y855Fs,Ih yosIou aumeo9Iul y8smouI o3 3-O 
xO,spuVUUTms3f uOm3OC Vm hoCR6JP F6a 0IeaeP
 Gs33pgTCAcCo3VCsV 8VRsOMf kCOpOm3p doRF,o5 om VIl(lI 
ElIou o3 3-O uoMLoCf vkspRVkoM u-TCR-l 8-ofpsO Vm hoCR6YP 
uoMM 5VC sm5V o3 __a04e6qP
? yOmosppomRO GTgMsRo3sVmp sp p3oAsmA Gnlm b3Iulilgls]l o3 
b-O uoCmOAsO Vm hoCRqeP uoMM qYa 0I6eI 5VC UVCO sm5VP
hoCR6q&
[ S,II9(Fuge SosgF,s9 .8moh ( u-sRoAV LpP Gs33pgTCAo3 
3-O usLsR tCOmoP uoMM _J60aIeeP
[ S,II9(Fuge GFnn9 sM88u lmu899o olgFo 7 Gs33pgTCALpP SO, )VCN o3 3-O usLsR tCOmoP uoMM _J60aYIFP
hoCRqe&
k S,II9(Fuge SosgF,s9 .8moh A
o3 3-O usLsR tCOmoP uoMM _J60aIeeP
0 G-sMoOMk-so LpP Gs33pgTCAparks and cruises
? tMMOA-Omf uVTm3f GoCNp ^OkoC3UOm3 pkVmpVCp 3-O C,sIou lsM 
VHu,sg WmI,i,I,o9 o3 yomRdVTpOl SVC3- GoCN Vm hoCR6_P uoMM 
YqF06a4eP
[ BlIo1lh yn,HHou 'nooI bl9Iou U,ssou yuF,9o 5CVU 3-O 
83o3sVm 89ToCO VRN Vm hoCRqaP uoMM qFF04YIeP
2~\-neg'-e2 1 ^

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Civili
Volume 85, Issue 19i 1 ------The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
0PPPPPPP 0 PPPPPPP011 March 1991
Handicapped struggle at CMU
Accessibility 
continues 
to improve
s mVUop CVsRmVspB MoCRom pOmsVC CmVsVACokmOC
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor Jason McDonald as he tried to wheel himself into Baker Hall. He found out the hard way that the ramps are not for wheelchairs, but for bikes.
Twce w9mF, F5wwtsF Ir9msh HIkyme
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
When we first came up with the idea of 
a first-person handicapped access story, 
Ill admit that I saw it as some sort of 
great adventure. I conjured up mental 
pictures of some sort of Great American 
Wheelchair Festival complete with a 
marching band and a ticker-tape parade; 
in short, I was dumb enough to think it 
was going to be fun. Four days as a 
pseudo-handicapped person later, I fi
nally understand what a big problem it 
is to be handicapped at Carnegie Mellon.
Preparations began Monday, February 
25, when I picked up the wheelchair 
from Health Services. At that point, it 
still hadnt sunk in what a pain in the 
butt it was going to be to get around 
campus in a wheelchair. I kind of thought 
of myself as some sort of90s Ferdinand 
Magellan, the guy who was going to 
circumnavigate the campus. I kept tell
ing myself, Youll figure this place out 
andy oull get around just fine,famous 
last words.
DAY ONE 
Tuesday, February 26
My first assault on campus came on 
Tuesday morning. I had decided that 
this was just going to be a test run, just 
to go to classes and get back alive.
I arrived on campus around 8:40, fig
uring 20 minutes would be enough time 
to get to my first class. After nine minutes, 
I still hadnt made it past the Morewood 
courtyard, and I was strongly consider
ing rolling right back to Health Services 
and bagging the whole experiment.
At that point, the kindness of strang
ers kicked in to reaffirm my faith in the 
job I was doing. As I was struggling to 
make it to the Forbes-Morewood cross
walk, a woman I had never met before 
asked if I needed help and proceeded to 
Push me across Forbes to Warner Hall.
This was my first graphic lesson in the 
stupidity of Carnegie Mellons campus 
design. To enter our campus, I had to 
wheel myself up Forbes Avenue to the 
other side of the Cut, thus avoiding the 
stairs in front of Warner. This little chore 
took me several minutes as I quietly
8OmsVC G-V3VACok-OC
The elevator in Doherty Hall proves to be tight for a wheelchairing McDonald.
cursed all the people who happily walked 
to breakfast.
I stalled near Skibo (all that uphill so 
early in the morning really drained me), 
but was once again helped by a passer
by. My newest guardian angel rolled me 
across the Cut to the side entrance of 
Doherty Hall, and from there to the 
Doherty-Wean linking elevator.
I had originally planned to brave the 
suicide ramps along the Mall, but I came
up with an advanced-planning stroke of 
genius Monday night. The easiest way to 
make it to Porter Hall was to go into 
Doherty, down into Wean Hall, and then 
across the courtyard into the basement 
of Porter Hall.
In a rare triumph, my plan actually 
worked, except for the fact that the 
Doherty-Wean elevator is just barely big 
enough for a wheelchair-bound Tartan 
reporter. I had to wedge myself into the
elevator sideways and then try to back 
out the way I came in. I did it, albeit with 
a few bumps from the door closing on me 
during the slow extrication procedure.
After a carefree roll through the fifth 
floor of Wean, I learned the single biggest 
lesson in handicapped access. DOORS 
ABE A BITCH. Most of the time, people 
were nice enough to hold them for me, 
but not always. The Wean doors were the 
Please see WHEELCHAIR, page L2
By RHONDA STRUMINGER 
& KEVIN BARNEY
Tartan Contributing Editors
In a wheelchair this place would be 
pretty much impossible. Doherty has one 
ramp and I guess Wean you could get 
into  but the thing is going down those 
ramps that are for bikes along the side
walks. You cant take a wheelchair down 
that  youd kill yourself, said sopho
more Physics major Brian Cox, who has 
been on crutches for three and a half 
months and still has another month to
goIts not that bad. I mean, there are 
stairs everywhere, and stairs are no fun, 
but that is just something you have to 
live with. You can do them if you take; 
your time.
The elevators are nice. I never used to : 
use them just to go one floor but with 
crutches I say, what the hell, 
the stairs suck. All the buildings 
elevators. The Porter and 
is kind of hidden, though.
As of July 26, 1992, the Americans 
with Disabilities Act will require 
Carnegie Mellon to establish reason
able accommodations for handicapped 
persons on campus.
According to an outline concerning the 
ADA, reasonable accommodations means 
that CMU must identify the particular 
barriers and potential accommodations, 
assess the reasonability of each accom
modation in terms of effectiveness and 
equal opportunity.
According to Imaging Systems Coordi
nator Dennis Kierzkowski, one of fourCMU staff members currently identified 
as requiring a wheelchair, CMU prob
ably has done a lot more for handicapped^ 
people than other places. So I dont think} 
the status of CMU is going to change} 
terribly. However, I would like to see* 
[the administration] respond a little! 
quicker to certain requests....
Kierzkowskis former office was in the} 
basement of Hunt. There was great dif-; 
ficulty in moving me physically onto the: 
second floor from where I was and lj 
understand that space allocation is a; 
problem. I spent six months in a base-; 
ment, the farthest from an exit that youcould possibly get. It wasnt a problem to; 
me because nothing ever happened. Had* 
there been a fire, then, that could haveresulted in a very serious situation. j
According to Housing Director Anthonyi 
Martin, in the past 10 years, four students 
required special housing because of their; 
confinement to wheelchairs. Martin! 
maintains that certain actions have been 
taken for .wheelchair-bound students;to: 
live in campus housing. Five years ago, 
there was a student in a wheelchair who 
wanted a second floor suite, said Mar
tin. We renovated that space. In addi
tion to that, we wanted to have the room 
close to a fire escape, so we put in a ram pi 
behind Morewood that he could use. We 
also wanted the student to enter like all 
other students. We cut a corridor out of 
the Morewood Rec Room, so he could get 
to the elevators instead of going around; 
to the back.
In 1986, Boss and McGill were reno
vated to accommodate wheelchair-bound 
students. According to Martin, Theres, 
just a natural extra concern about any 
building on the Hill. Theres a reason its 
called the Hill. I think it would be a little 
bit of a struggle, but if he wanted to be 
there, then he would be accommodated. 
We try to accommodate these students, 
instead of saying you have to live here.
With the exception of Morewood Gar
dens, Carnegie Mellon has not undergone 
large-scale handicapped building acces
sibility renovation and evaluation since 
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Since 
that time, a Campus Accessibility Com
mittee [CAC] has been organized to proPlease see ACCESSIBILITY, page L2

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
McDonald finds campus a tough ride
WHEELCHAIR, from page LI
most graphic example of this  when 
youre using one arm to keep the door 
from slamming on your legs, how the hell 
are you supposed to propel yourself 
through the doorway?
When I finally reached my class, my 
arms and hands were so tired that I 
could barely hold a pen, much less take 
any notes. I was lucky that my next two 
classes were also in Porter Hall; I had 
plenty of time to rest before heading 
back to civilization.
The ride back to Skibo was a little 
easier, .but it still took me about 17 
minutes to complete. As Day One ended, 
I had already reached my conclusion 
that handicapped access on this campus 
sucks; I just had to go about proving it.
DAY TWO 
Wednesday, February 27
After dispensing with my only class of 
the day and taking care of a few pieces of 
unfinished sports business, I began my 
first big day of field research. Armed 
with only a campus map and a notebook, 
I set out to learn what I could about the 
state of affairs here.
A trip to the Kiltie Court from The 
Tartans office was the first item on the 
agenda. Luckily, the Dining Service em
ployees were helpful and let me cut 
through the kitchen. Otherwise, I would 
have had to wheel the perimeter of the 
building to get to the Court. On a later 
trip, I also tested to make sure the spac
ing; between the tables was adequate. 
My; table slalom was just a little tight, 
but I was able to get around pretty well.
The rest of Skibo was also pretty ac
cessible. The Tartan Lounge and the 
Faculty Dining Room were the only places 
th^t were really off limits. Actually, the 
ide)a of a handicapped person trying to sit 
on (me of the high stools in Scotland Yard 
als{D stumped me a little.
Entropy was the only other black mark 
on!the Skibo report card. Unless a 
handicapped student wants to subsist on 
Snickers bars and Dr. Pepper, he or she 
is olut of luck. You cant get to the far wall 
of the store. Period.
I^ike Skibo, the New dorm also falls on 
the positive side of the line on handi
capped access. I did most of my research 
in the West Wing, but I assume it carries 
over reasonably well to Resnik as well, 
and I did make a brief stop in Resnik. 
Besides which, the only major differing 
feature, the Highlander Cafe, was closed 
at the time, so I couldnt check it out.
The halls are nice and wide, and the 
doors are relatively light, if still a little 
unwieldy due to size. My only major 
complaint came at the mailboxes; the top 
two or three rows were unreasonably 
high. I either had to stretch to reach 
them, or couldnt reach them at all.
Another logistics problem presented 
its0lf when I entered the West Wing 
computer cluster. The side rows of com
puters, with chairs along one side, were 
navigable with a little bit of bumping 
and a little shuffling of chairs. The middle 
row, with chairs along both sides, was 
completely unmanageable I wonder 
how a person on foot could force through 
that mess, much less one in a wheelchair.
In the interest of being thorough, I had 
one more test to make. The final lesson of 
the New dorm was what exactly was 
meant by handicapped-accessible
restrooms. A normal restroom stall has It wasnt easy, but I did it. The trip took
two basic problems: the door isnt wide about six minutes, plus a pair of stops to 
enough to let a wheelchair in, and even if talk to people I knew. When I finally
When we first came up 
with the idea of a firstperson handicapped ac
cess story, III admit that 
I... was dumb enough to 
think it was going to be 
fun. Four days as a 
pseudo-handicapped 
person later,; I finally un
derstand what a big 
problem it is to be handi
capped at Carnegie 
Mellon.
it is, you couldnt close the door without 
removing the wheelchair. Lovely little 
design flaw, isnt it.
After the pleasant ambience of the 
New dorm, I moved on to Chateau Ugly, 
Donner Hall. I can now add inconve
nient to my ever-growing list of com
plaints about Donner. The building has
NO ELEVA--------------------------------
TORS! Sure, 
there are a few 
rooms on the 
first floor, but 
thats not good 
enough. A 
friend informed 
me that a 
handicapped 
person couldnt 
do his or her 
laundry; its on 
a different floor.
The only posi
tive of Donner 
is that the mail
boxes are all 
within reach, 
even if the top 
row takes a 
little stretch.
Skibo Gym 
was the last stop 
on my first sortie  if you can
actually call it a stop. Ive been in or 
around the gym enough to know that its 
a complete wash-out. The only entrance 
is halfway up the cobblestone part of 
Frew Street, and that door has a fire 
alarm on it. Besides, once youre in, where 
do you go? You couldnt even leave the 
basketball court since all exits involve 
stairs. I just kept on wheeling right back 
to Skibo for my first coffee break of the 
day.
My second trip of the day just formal
ized my lessons of the first day, with a 
few minor additions. I went to the Mall 
buildings  Doherty, Wean, Porter, and 
Baker. The only entrance to Hamerschlag 
Hall is down by Scaife Hall; I was going 
to check them out as well, but my arms 
decided they wanted to go home early.
A very interesting thing happened on 
the way back to the battleground. I re
ceived my third free push of the week 
along with an interesting comment. The 
guy who decided to help me said, I saw 
you struggling and Im surprised no one 
else helped you out. I didnt expect every 
total stranger to serve my every whim, 
and people had been pretty helpful on 
the whole, but he had a point.
My big test for Doherty was to see if I 
could make it to DH 2210, which I did 
with a little effort. I then went to Wean, 
which taught me that the Doherty-Wean 
elevator  difficult enough when you 
used the same door coming and going  
is even tougher if you have to leave using 
the opposite door.
Wean and, subsequently, Porter both 
checked out well with my prior research, 
at which point I decided that it was time 
for The Test, Baker Halls second floor. 
The first floor is all right because you 
have four or five places to access it, and 
further travel can be kept at a minimum. 
The second floor is much simpler: take 
the Porter elevator and climb Baker to 
your classroom.
reached the top, I was exhausted, but it 
was still great. After all, I had done it! 
The Rocky theme was in my head with a 
vengeance, so much so that I almost 
didnt notice that the third floor of Baker 
and the bookstore are completely cut off 
from the handicapped.
My triumph almost convinced me to 
try Scaife, but my 
arms suddenly re
minded my brain of 
the return trip up the 
steepest part of Frew 
Street, and I decided 
to call it a day.
DAY THREE 
Friday, March 1
I decided to take 
Thursday off, partly 
because I had a mid
term to study for, but 
mostly because my 
arms were killing 
me. I returned to ac
tion the next day, 
stumbling to campus 
around 1 pm. Once 
again turning to the 
logical for motiva
tion, I decided to 
start with a trip to 
Warner Hall to visit 
my friendly neighborhood Cashiers Of
fice.
The main thing that sucks about 
Warner is that there are only two ways 
in for the handicapped; either take the 
Forbes Avenue entrance to UCC, or go 
through the Warner Hall parking lot. 
Starting from Skibo, the latter seemed to 
be the obvious choice.
Unfortunately, the Warner Hall lot 
has a really tough slope to it which makes 
the crossing a real struggle. I ended up 
using my right arm almost exclusively to 
counteract the parking lots grade.
This actually brings about a general 
point that sidewalks on this campus need 
to be mor level. Uneven surfaces mean 
uneven workloads on the arms and a lot 
of wasted effort to straighten out after 
drifting too far to one side or another.
Warner and UCC were both good 
buildings, although my complaint about 
doors applies even more to Warner. 
Coming into Warner, the middle space 
between the pairs of doors is really too 
small to get in a position to open the 
inner door. I went out through UCC, so I 
dont know how well the reverse condi
tion holds.
Hunt Library brought my streak to 
three in a row. Once again, the outer 
doors were a pain in the ass, but Hunt 
was otherwise fine. There was a lot of 
room to move although the space be
tween bookshelves was kind of tight. 
One would also have to get help to get a 
book on a high shelf, but theres no avoid
ing that.
I forgot to visit first-hand, but the 
Hunt Cluster also represents a small 
disappointment. You cant get to the 
computers because theyre up those damn 
steps. The spacing between rows also 
seems very tight, so even if you got up the 
stairs, youd still need to work on an end 
computer.
The CFA building was the first major
disappointment of the day. Going in the 
front door, you cant get any further than 
the main hall. Sure, Kresge Theater and 
the Alumni Concert Hall are in the main 
hall, but the rest of the building, including 
classrooms and administrative offices, is 
on a look but dont touch policy whether 
the department wants it that way or not.
In addition, it would seem the only 
reason the front door has a ramp is 
because the stone workers put it there. 
Whats going to happen when the tem
porary wood ramp is removed?
CFAs side entrance, which I investi
gated on Sunday afternoon, was better; I 
could get to most of the rooms from there, 
but I could still not get to the adminis
trative offices on the first floor. In one of 
the ironic twists of life, CFAs first floor 
has a wooden ramp that leads to... stairs!
CFA wasnt alone, though; I soon added 
GSIA to my list. Once again, the no
elevator problem felled an otherwise 
accessible building.
I was given some interesting informa
tion by GSIA receptionist Vickie Motz. 
Apparently, GSIAis planning an addition 
which will allow access to the upper 
floors. In addition, the only classrooms 
are in the basement, which is accessible 
through the garage, and on the ground 
floor. Administrative offices are the only 
things found on the upper floors.
Thats nice, but its still not good 
enough. My advisors office is on the 
second floor. Ive had a lot of professors 
for IM classes who were located on the 
second and third floors. Tell me what I 
would have done if I really were handi
capped. Could I really call and say, Id 
like to discuss my schedule. Could you 
meet me in front of the building in ten 
minutes?
Disappointed in the headquarters of 
my major, and pressed by time consid
erations, I headed back to the office to get 
some work done. I had originally planned 
to go out again, but got bogged down in 
work. Luckily, Health Service gave me 
an extension for the weekend (they 
originally wanted the chair back on 
Friday), so I was still in business.
DAY FOUR 
Monday, March 4
I had good excuses for missing the 
weekend, really. Saturday, I was out of 
town for the womens basketball game 
if theres any great public outcry for 
information on handicapped access in 
Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania, Ill go back 
with the chair. I was here on Sunday, but 
it was raining and I was being a sissy.
Of course, life has a way of evening 
things out; my cowardice on Sunday was 
rewarded with snowfall on Monday. 
Nevertheless, I set out around noon to 
finally finish the job I had started.
First on my days plan was Margaret 
Morrison Hall. Since the front access 
ramp has been removed since last year 
(or maybe it was two years ago), I had 
only one entrance alternativethrough 
the back door facing Skibo. To its credit, 
Maggie Mo suffers from the same syn
drome as Warner Hall; its a pain to get 
in, but its pretty decent once youre in
side. After tooling around for a few min
utes, I departed for Challenge Number 
Two, the Hill dorms.
On the way to the Hill, I noticed from 
afar that Margaret Morrison Hall does 
have a second entrance, down by the
Donner parking lot. However, wheeling 
down a steep hill and making a 135 
degree turn to wind up in the basement . 
doesnt exactly conjure up the term convenient. "7
When I arrived at Margaret Morrison -. 
Street, I came up with a new piece ofhe 
stupidity puzzle. What little lowered' 
curbs the street does have are staggered! 
Therefore, I had to go all the way baclt  
down to Skibo Gym to get on the other 
side of the street. A further example of. 
putting the U in CMU.
That wasnt all. Because of the spacing 
of the curb cuts, I had to make a portion 1 
of my trip in the street. Wheeling around 
a major campus thoroughfare is hardly, 
my idea of fun.
When I finally got back to the Margaret' 
Morrison Plaza, it turned out all my, 
effort had been wasted. The damned, 
elevator never showed up! After waiting 
a couple of minutes in the tundr, ;I, 
decided to head back. For a moment,I  
considered the Scobell suicide rampj'but.. 
I chickened out after the last minute.1,1 .
The trip to Morewood, my next whistle  
stop, provided my trip with an epic con
clusion. At the Forbes-Morewood crosswalk, I hit the bottom of the Morewojidside curb cut and the front right wheelroT' 
my chair snapped. Tiny bits of pliastifc 
flew everywhere, and I immediai^fyjumped up, mostly to get myself out of 
the way of the potential traffic.
If it were a horse, I would have hact no 
choice but to shoot it. As things went; I 
sadly pushed Old Paint to Health Ser
vices to receive a little TLC from its 
rightful owners. I didnt realize until, 
later in the day how surprising it must, 
have been for onlookers to see a wheel
chair-bound person leap up and push his, 
wheelchair away without a word.
Day Four could be classified as a dis-. 
appointment. I still had several places I.. 
could have visited, and I never did any 
real research in Morewood, one of the 
biggest residence areas on campus. Lean 
make some fair assumptions, though.'1 
Morewood E-Tower is pretty good^l ^ 
remember it; its the main complex1#^ 
will cause the handicapped trouble. TKere  
are only two ground floor entrances tliat 
I could think of; Theres an outside access - 
door facing the Morewood parking^iot, - 
and theres another one near the~ReC' 
Room. Unfortunately, both are usually  
locked, and it would probably be a'r&ai - 
chore for a handicapped person to'fiiid1 
someone with a key to let him or her in, 
especially since most of the administra-; 
tive personnel are upstairs in Housing. .
One wheelchair and two worn-out arms 
later, I find myself acutely aware of the, 
troubles facing the handicapped at 
Carnegie Mellon. Some of the problems. 
are unavoidable; the administration' 
certainly cant bulldoze the entire hill, 
that CMU is built on.
Other problems  doors that are too . 
heavy, to open, ramps that are far too 
steep  are products of stupidity; they 
can and should be taken care of as soon 
as possible. ------
Part of the reason you dont see more 
handicapped students on this campus is 
that its too damn difficult to get around 
here. Whether its intentional or not, its 
discriminating against a certain group 
of students.
I hope the Warner Hall elite remember 
that the next time theyre walking up 
their precious steps.
Campus handicapped accessibility continues improving
ACCESSIBILITY, from page LI
vide advice to the administration 
on how to increase building ac
cessibility for handicapped stu
dents, faculty and staff.
The formation of the CAC was 
not just to comply with Federal 
regulations; I think we were al
ready in compliance, said Everett 
Tademy, director of Equal Op
portunity Programs. There were 
 Certain issues, though, that the 
CAC wanted to make sure hap
pened. This committee was 
formed to review accessibility for 
hew construction projects. For 
xample, when the plans for the 
new dorm were developed, the 
committee would go over those 
plans. This insured that handi
capped accessibility issues and 
concerns of the handicapped were 
addressed.
 According to Tademy, the 
projects recommended by the CAC 
are now being re-evaluated. We 
want to bring all of the 1987 infor
mation up to date and find out 
where there may be barriers, he
said.
The 1987 information is com
prised of a list of past, current and 
proposed projects, including a 
handicapped parking stall added 
to Skibo parking lot in 1985 and 
making the doors to Hunt Library 
wheelchair-accessible by making 
them pull-weight adjusted in 
1987.
Sometimes the adjustments 
that were made werent enough. 
Hunt Library doors still pose a 
problem for Kierzkowski. There 
are a number of problems involved 
with getting about campus in a 
wheelchair. Hunt Library is very 
difficult to get in and out of be
cause of the doors. Supposedly 
automatic openers are being put 
on two of the doors in Hunt Li
brary.
Tademy claims the University 
progress has not been hindered 
by financial resources, and will 
not be. Undue hardship does not 
include comparison of cost of ac
commodation versus compensa
tion for a job or student, said
Tademy.
For example, say an employee 
comes in who makes $12,000 or 
$13,000 but the accommodation 
to get them working requires 
triple that; that shouldnt make 
the decision.
Tademy feels the first step in 
helping those in need is for those 
people to identify themselves. 
People who have identified 
themselves as wheelchair-bound 
are all staff. I dont personally 
know of any faculty who have 
declared themselves wheelchairbound, said Tademy. You cant 
service people unless they let you 
know they are in need. We send 
out an annual survey and we ask 
people to identify themselves. 
The survey states they may be 
qualified for certain accommo
dations in their physical work 
environment in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. 
How does this affect students? 
Michael Steidel, director of Ad
missions, explained that many 
students dontidentify themselves
at all  if they have a question, 
we refer them to Tademy. He 
makes the necessary arrange
ments and will make sure that 
whatever barriers exist will be 
taken care of. We admit the most 
qualified students who apply; if 
all of them are handicapped thats 
great, if not, then thats fine, too.
Even though there are no en
rolled wheelchair bound students 
right now, there are students who. 
find themselves on crutches, in 
knee braces, or with orthopedic 
problems while they are on cam
pus.
Anita Barkin, director of Health 
Services, explains that students 
see difficulty with the campus. 
Ive had students tell me that 
they cant possibly do crutches 
because they cant get around due 
to the way the campus is set up.
To get into a lot of the resi
dence buildings, they have to 
climb steps  there arent eleva
tors available in enough loca
tions.
As a matter of fact, Kierzkowski
complained to Physical Plant on 
the ramp going down from 
Doherty to Wean. There are two 
ramps there that arent really 
usable for anything except for 
skateboards and bicycles because 
they are too steep. In fact, I turned 
my electric cart over trying to get 
up it  but that was my fault. I 
looked at it and knew it was too 
steep, but I just had to give it a 
shot. If they are going to have 
ramps they may as well have some 
use for them.
Physical Plant is updating the 
1987 projects list. We are doing 
an inventory on all the buildings 
to see what we need for handi
capped accessibility: outside ac
cessibility to buildings, inside 
flows, accessibility to rest rooms 
and the accessibility of elevators. 
This is so that we can let the 
institution know what the finan
cial needs are so that they can 
start planning and budgeting, 
said Steve Saulis, director of 
Physical Plant.
This is a preliminary plan on
the public access buildings which; 
includes: the library, Warner Hall,; 
Smith Hall (where the unemploy-; 
ment office is), CFA, the gym,! 
Baker Hall, and Porter Hall. We; 
are also trying to put together a; 
map of routes for people who can t 
climb stairs. Right now, you come 
to me and I will tell you that this 
is the way to go, said Tademy.
This project will become a part 
of a larger proposal that we are 
submitting to President 
Mehrabian that would take into 
account what we need to do with 
regard to the Universitys [layout]. 
Then another part of the proposal 
will have to deal with what we 
need to do as far as establishing 
sources or resources for staff, ] 
faculty, and students who may, 
need auxiliary type equipment.
The, proposal will identify 
where we think we are now, how 
we thiink the ADA affects us,, 
where \Ve may be short, and where j 
we may be in the lead, and it will; 
be kind of a blueprint for the 90s.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  13. March 1991L3
Role Models Program points children in the right direction
By KATIE CULBERTSON
fartan Editor-in-Chief
Nine-year-old Tamara Wilkes, 
fourth-grader at the A. Leo Weil 
School in the Hill District, wants 
to learn why its wrong when 
people call her nigger.
lane Atkinson, a secretary in 
thePsychology Department, 
wants to help Tamara and her 
classmates.
Atkinson has been selling the 
sOo of a mentoring and tutoring 
program for children of urban el
ementary schools to the Univer
ps3f administration for two years. 
On Friday, March 1, Atkinson 
AV3 her wish when she welcomed 
,bout 30 students from the A. Leo 
DOsM School to CMU for the ori
entation and kick-off of the Role 
hVOMp Program.
Ive been dreaming about this 
moment for the past two years 
and then some, Atkinson, presi
dent of the Role Models Program, 
told Hie young students, their 
parents, and other guests who 
nearly filled Wean Hall 7500 for 
the program.
The mission of the Role Models 
program, which is specifically 
gried for third through fifth 
lers of inner city schools, is to 
assist students in high-risk areas 
Pittsburgh to increase their 
academic attainment and expo
sure to positive role models and 
opportunities, while providing 
support to their families, as 
stated by the programs executive 
summary.
Those positive role models come 
sm the form of eight CMU student 
mentors who will tutor the chil
dren  masters student Wayne 
Walters, music; fifth-year senior 
Leroy Jones, ECE; seniors 
Deborah Bey, professional writDesiree Cook, history, and 
NajaHurt, ECE; junior Christina 
Bennett, design; and freshmen 
OlaFakinlede, CIT, andBenjamin 
Tett, GIT.
One of the main philosophies 
behind the program is that ex
posing, these children to accom
plished, ambitious college stu
dents will inspire them to set high 
s for themselves. The chil
dren need role models from CMU, 
because in poor environments 
there are few people working, or 
aspiring to careers, or going to 
college, Atkinson told FOCUS 
Magazine earlier this year. 
When theyre not exposed, they 
ave no aspirations, said Cook. 
They dont know how to take the 
first step. We want to show them 
black students who are good stu
dents and successful in college. 
Atkinson is worried that innercityM^ids dont receive enough 
exposure in their communities to
Members of the dance group Rhapsody perform for local children as a
role models and opportunities, 
and as a result, grow up having 
very little faith in themselves and 
their abilities. When children see 
high unemployment in their 
neighborhoods, they feel that they 
will be unemployed, too.
Because disadvantaged com
munities are alienated from the 
mainstream of society, it is diffi
cult to expose children of these 
communities to a positive envi
ronment, states the programs 
executive summary. The Role 
Models Program aims to moti
vate children to explore ideas of 
what they could be when they 
grow up. This is the first step in 
helping children to realize their 
own potential.
We want to give them [an un
derstanding] of the potential they 
have, said Bennett.
According to Cook, it is also 
important to stress that its okay, 
and even good, to be smart. Its 
not corny to be smart, she said. 
She added that CMU is a prime 
university to emphasize this idea.
Tamara is hoping to receive help 
in choosing and developing a ca
reer when she is older. This is 
the most important thing, she 
said. Also I want to get help with 
my schoolwork.
For students like Tamara, this 
program also aims to boost pride 
and self-confidence, so that they 
can understand how not to feel 
defeated when someone alienates 
them. Miss Elaine can help us do 
that, said Tamara.
Through her experiences with 
motherhood and her love of chil
dren, Atkinsonhas made an effort 
to become close friends with the 
students. Twice a teenage mother 
herself, Atkinson was inspired by 
her background to launch the 
program. When I was younger I 
asked myself, why am I suffering
so much? Why was I bom poor? 
Why dont we have a car? Why 
didnt anyone tell me about teen
age pregnancy? said Atkinson. 
It is my intimate experience with 
beingunderclass that has enabled 
me not only to understand the 
thinking processes of poor people, 
but to become an independent 
person, to know the process and 
the transition that it takes. 
CMUs involvement in the Role 
Models Program is somewhat 
limited, to the extent of providing 
students to be mentors and tutors 
and allowing it to operate on 
campus. The two-year establish
ment period included some snags, 
according to Atkinson. However, 
when President Mehrabian ar
rived, he was very interested. He 
sent the program to [Vice Presi
dent for Enrollment] Bill Elliott, 
and asked that the program be
come a CMU program, she said. 
Im really excited about our new 
president and the fact that hes 
adopted this as a CMU program. 
Despite the initial difficulties 
that temporarily stalled the es
tablishment of the program, 
Atkinson is now confident of the 
Universitys support, and its 
ability to push other major uni
versities to become involved in 
community service activities. 
This university has pioneered so 
many different areas  cognitive 
psychology, computer science, 
robotics, she said. This is the 
perfect university to send out the 
message to other universities and 
communities that now is the time 
to take care of our children and 
our inner city.
Atkinson pointed out that since 
CMU has a stake in the city of 
Pittsburgh, it must do its part to 
support the community, and this 
program is a perfect way to do 
that.
'Amo3sTp 8opUs3oBboC3om uVm3CsgT3smA vs3VC 
part of the Role Models Program.
The Role Models Program is 
supported by a board and con
sultants. Psychology professor 
Herbert Simon and associate 
professor Thomas Kerr of GSIA 
serve as consultants, while his
tory professor Andy Barnes, Dr. 
Howard Richman, and Dorothea 
Simon sit on the board. Mrs.
Simon believes the CMU students 
can gain a lot of experience and 
worth from the program.
According to the executive 
summary, the goals and objec
tives of the program encompass 
three major components: aca
demic instruction, self develop
ment, and exposure to opportu
nities. After school during the 
week, the children come to the 
CMU campus to meet their men
tors. From 3 to 5:30 pm they en
gage in various activities to help 
fulfill these goals.
Through these activities, the 
children will gain self-esteem, a 
broader knowledge of opportuni
ties available to all of them, as 
well as an appreciation for educa
tion.
Academic instruction involves 
teaching the children strategies 
on how to become successful 
students. They will engage in 
individual and small group aca
demic sessions which will help 
them with their everyday home
work assignments at school.
Because Atkinson does not want 
the program to become bogged 
down with academics, the self
development arm is crucial. It 
aims to educate the students on
black history, drug awareness, 
goal-setting skills, decision-making skills, nutrition, exercise, 
communication skills, and the 
necessity of a work ethic.
Exposure to opportunities will 
take advantage of the Carnegie 
Mellon University environment 
and the wealth of knowledge, fa-. 
cilities, and opportunities it pro. 
vides. In addition, the program^ 
will organize field trips to other . 
schools, museums, historic and 
cultural sites, and visits from ; 
speakers from various professions , 
and nationalities.
Bringing the children to a ma
jor university campus has already . 
proven to be a source of inspira
tion. I think its neat, said fifth-. 
grader Edward Hillebrecht, age 
10.
Its a very good experience in
troducing them to the college 
campus, said Cook. When I was 
young, I would have been very 
impressed.
Because much of the success of 
the program depends on the home,, 
reaching out to and integrating 
the families of the children in
volved is a crucial extension of 
the program. There is a parent 
______GMOopO pOO hc^vr8l koAO L5.
MANNES.
Artistry & Community
t3 hommOp 3-Of AV 3VAO3-OCP b-O pNsMMpl TmOCp3omsmA om 
VCsAsmoMs3f V5 artistry oCO 5Vp3OCO gf o pTkOCg 5oRTM3f sm o RoCsmA om 
pTkkVC3sLO community. 'd:d b-o3Ep ,-f hommOp ACoTo3Op pTRROOP
1991 AUDITIONS:
SO, )VCN us3f& xomToCf 4& hoCRFP _l 4l I& hof 6aP 66P 6qP 6J& tTATp3 66P 6qP 
yOAsVmoM tTs3sVmp& xomToCfBOgCToCf ( rVp tmAOMOpP ^oMMop03P DVC3-P u-sRoAVP
MAJOR STUDIES sMM oMM VCL-ChCoM ssdmUsCssMP ksoUsP VCWfsmP Lsss30s0 omsM ss|h0CTP kTsMoCP -s0MmCsRoM |h0C$VCUoU0CP U 
omsM s0ssm<MsM<Msss5P PROGRAMS OF STUDY: ho0xCCV5hsssCP -s030uCosMssoMC ^skMVUoP 'MoCMsCMVC V5hss/sCP MMoCMsCMVCV58 
^skMVUoP tC3s0M ^skMVUoP SCHOLARSHIPS oToCsMCsM sm oMM UoWVC>P DORMITORY m/sU om0 o/osMoMsMCP
uoMM dcc06Y60Usc VC 6'60Fde0e6'e 5VC okkMss ossVmP oUMsMsVm oksUsmMUs0ms omsM osMsMsMssPmoM sm5VCUo3sVm oMTUs 3sm0 uTMMs00P
sMsPPP
Wrrbtrat WdrV Q ydW'rV 
9 LbtUadV
1 ANNUAL SPRING CARNIVALARTS & CRAFTS FAIR
Friday and Saturday, April 19 & 20 
12:00pm-5:00pm 
On the Cut (weather permitting) 
$25 per day per 6' table
Interested vendors should specify their intended date(s) of attendance and send
a $25 deposit to. Spring Carnival Arts & Crafts Fair
Skibo 103 Carnegie Mellon Univ.
5000 Forbes Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
For further information, call Stephanie at 268-4917

---------------------------------------------------

alitili)
-SShOsTU a '3OU GsHHo$5.99
'y
Lame
Expires: 3/31/91
(/> b z <s
buoyO O.
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
roCAO u-OOpO GsHHo$6.99
Expires: 3/31/91
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
6 hOsTU 6 '3OU GsHHop I
1IIIII
1II
Expires: 3/31/91
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas j
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
Dining Service
SHORT ON CASH? USE YOUR CAMPUS ACCOUNT!
 Give Domino's your CMU Campus Account ID number
 Place your order
 Enjoy a hot and delicious Domino's Pizza!
NOBODY DELIVERS BETTER.
Call Us! 681-1700Hours: 11:00am-2:00am Sun.-Thurs.
11:00am-3:00am Fri. & Sat.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. 1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
*

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991L5
Women's Center orchestrates activities....
C85osv9 .,9I8uh E8sIe 9Iu,io9 p8u l1luoso99
gy MEGAN DIETZ
fartan Asst. Features Editor
CMITs celebration of Womens His
tory Month, International Womens 
Week, and International Womens Day, 
orchestrated by the Womens Center, 
has raised a number of provocative is
sues. A wide variety of activities has 
been planned to address those issues, in 
hope of creating awareness and also 
furthering the goals of feminism, says 
jenn Phillips, an H&SS sophomore atid 
i member of the Womens Center.
A major part of this celebration was a 
discussion session entitled Men in 
Feminism, held Thursday night at the 
Womens Center. The discussion, which 
drew more than 70 men and women, 
featured philosophy senior lecturer Ernie 
Alieva, assistant professor of English 
Kris Straub, and associate professor of 
English Paul Smith as speakers.
Alievas presentation focused on spe
cific items which he feels must be ad
dressed when speaking about the role of 
men in feminism. He listed issues that 
he believes can and should be taken up 
by men who care about feminism, includingthe low number of women on campus, 
both in the student and faculty/staff 
populations, day-care options for mem
bers of the campus community, and
sexual harassment of women. He also 
encouraged men to take and participate 
in gender studies courses. It is amazing 
to me that in such a male-dominated 
school, women do almost all of the talk
ing in the gender studies class, said 
Alieva.
Straubs talk emphasized the need to 
avoid reducing the terms men and 
feminism to single meanings; she be
lieves that the diversity of the people 
falling under these ideas prevents using 
the words generically. I think that we 
need to be thinking about not just this 
[white, middle-class, heterosexual] type 
of man and feminism, but various types 
of men in relation to feminism, said 
Straub. Nobody can define her or him
self completely as a feminist. Homosexual 
feminist issues are at odds with hetero
sexual ones. Black feminisms are differ
ent from white ones.
Smith spoke of men being nearby 
feminism rather than having the inclu
sive relationship implied by the word 
in. As men, we need to make our own 
agendas concerning feminism, he said. 
Smith also presented his belief that men 
should use their institutional power, 
which is often greater than that of women, 
to help further the causes of feminism.
After the presentations, the program 
turned to discussion of the issues at
hand. One issue raised by the group was 
that of reconciling the goals of fighting 
for feminist causes and simultaneously 
attempting to draw men into the battle. 
As put by Straub, How do you go about 
being a hostess and a revolutionary at 
the same time?
Smith answered that question by 
taking the responsibility of recruitment 
and education offthe womens shoulders: 
Its not the oppresseds duty to educate 
the oppressors.... Making them hear the 
noise seems to be a perfectly good political 
strategy. Its up to men from there.
An alternate view of mens role in 
feminism was presented by another 
Womens Center collective member, se
nior history and professional writing 
major Harriet Protos. She stated her 
belief that, although mens assistance is 
welcome and even necessary to the 
progress of the feminist movement, there 
are some issues which must be dealt 
with by women.
A support group for women who have 
survived sexual assault holds meetings 
at the Womens Center, and the Center 
recently hosted an all-womens slumber 
party, said Protos. We took a lot of flak 
from men and women for restricting these 
activities, but I just wonderwhy would 
a man want to sit in on a session where 
women are talking about their sexual
assault experiences? Why would a man 
want to come to a womens slumber party? 
Why does a man feel the need to stand up 
at the Young Feminists Conference and 
speak about womens reproductive 
rights?
I am glad that there are men on cam
pus who support us, because I think that 
support from men is necessary if we 
want things to change ... but sometimes 
men are just presumptuous in assuming 
that we want their help. I guess I just 
wish that men would ask us before they 
jump in. I think they should knock on the 
door before they just walk through it.
Friday, designated International 
Womens Day, featured a potluck dinner 
at the Womens Center, followed by live 
music. Events in the future include dis
cussions about women in science, support 
group meetings for women who have 
survived sexual assault, and weekly 
Womens Center Collective meetings.
Everyone is welcome, reads the 
Womens Centers calendar of events for 
the month of March. The events planned 
in celebration of this months emphasis 
on women certainly reiterate this phi
losophy. Says Phillips, I feel it [the pro
gram of events] has been successful. We 
hope that the campus realizes that the 
Womens Center is, as we continue to 
say, a space that is open to all people.
tTATp3smO wTVBboC3om G-V3VACok-OC 
A woman practices at the workshop Self 
Awareness and Self Defense held last 
week in Skibo gym.Atkinson, role models provide inspiration for inner-city kids
MODELS, from page LI
component to the program that 
will work with the parents to help 
them reinforce the value system 
and goals we are trying to estab
lish in these young people. 
Family members are encour
aged to participate in the aca
demic sessions and field trips. In 
addition, the program is refer
ring parents to support groups in 
their communities, so that they
can learn while their children do.
Denise Taylor, Tamaras 
mother, is excited by her 
daughters involvement in the 
program. You always want the 
best for your children and their 
education  the best and all you 
can achieve.
Atkinson wants the program to 
bombard [the children] with good 
information. Involving the fam
ily and school should do this.
Dr. Lawrence Davis, principal 
of the A. Leo Weil School is really 
excited by the response on the 
part of the parents and the [CMU] 
students.
Their enthusiasm has already 
begun to have an impact, he said. 
He is also impressed with 
Atkinsons dedication. To Elaine, 
I give kudos. She has done a tre
mendous job.
Ruby Scott, an information pro
cessor at the school, attended the 
orientation program in Wean 
Hall. It [the orientation] was a 
treat. The program consisted 
mostly of African-American 
dances and songs, as well as a 
pledge the children took.
Scott has noticed that other 
students at the elementary school 
who are not involved in the Role 
Models Program are envious of 
the students who are.
No matter what your 
style, you can be sure 
youll get the latest In 
balr fashions at Great 
Expectations. The one 
salon for everyone.
jpsyy GREAT 
CHPEGTRTItnS.
Gyvu'8'cS dt'yu1bbvy8
DESIGNER PERM 
only S30.00 
Complete with written 
guarantee
PRECISION CUT
only $14.00 
Complete with shampoo 
and blow style
Also
Available:
Perms
Coloring
n6Pee c
I on a
Precision Haircut
I (complete w/ wash & style)
Expires Mar. 31, 1951 _______g
I Not valid with any other offer I  Frosting 
MUSTHAVECOUPON_____|  Conditioning
JUST-A-CUT
only $10.00 
Cut only
237 Atwood Street
687-3500
For Elaine Atkinson, a tworole models, a chance to push 
year-old dream inspired by a lifeyoungsters toward success is a 
time of experiences has finally reality. And for Tamara and her 
come to be reality. For CMU, inclassmates, as well as future role 
volvement in the community has model students, opportunity has 
been established. For the CMU arrived.
'There's nothing like a 
good play foUowed by a 
quiet dinner for two"
"I prefer two tickets to 
watch my favorite team 
play."
"Wrong. Nothing 
compares to a great rock 
concert!"
Juggement Lounge
dV,oC xV-mpVmp coNMom
Meet the 
Genessee Girls
hoCRa6 I0ae GPhP
D.J. 7-11 P.M.
Penguin Tickets 
Discount Prices
Fresh homeade dough spun right before your eyes...
16 CHEESE PIZZA 
$2.99
Offer good Sunday thru Thursday
Original Hotdog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621 -0453 
Offer not good for delivery
Now available Friday and Saturday 
One 16 Pizza only $4.49
THE PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT AT CARNEGIE MELLON ANNOUNCES ITS SECOND ANNUAL
PIZ Z A AND PHILOSOPY 
GET TOGETHER
 Are you interested in a major or double major in philosophy or in logic and computation?
 Are you interested in trying some of our exiting courses on topics in
traditional philosophy, logic, and artificial intelligence?
 Would you like more information before taking the plunge?
Then you are most cordially invited to munch on pizza and soft drinks with 
students and faculty in the philosophy department to find out whats going on.
DATE: FRIDAY, MARCH 15,1991 
TIME: 3:30 pm 
PLACE: PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT 135J (LOUNGE) 
RSVP: (IF POSSIBLE) x8568~ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13 BY 4 PM

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
cT3Mom sp o ,OONMf 5Oo3TCO sm 3-O Gs33pgTCAGVp3 zoHO33OP
THE FAR SIDE :f zty) rty8cS
if?yMK
AWHO DID
K
M msF/
RB5
fite DAMES SCREAM H\T AN OCTAVE 
U SU ALLS RESERVED FOR CALLING dogs, 
BUT \T MEANT I HAD A CASE, AND 
THE SOUND OF GREENBACKS SLAPPING 
ACROSS NX PALM \S MUSIC TO L, 
EARS AHI DAN. AFTER. AIL, I'M HOT I 
AN OPERA CRITIC. IM A PRWATE EXE. i
pg INTRODUCED TUE SAME TD 
A. FR\END WUOS VERS CLOSE 
TO MS HEART. JUST l5 
LITTLE DOWN AND LEFT,
TO BE SPECIFIC.
MS FRIEND IS AN ELOQUENT SPEAKER. HE 
MACE THREE PROFOJKD ARGUMENTS YMIE I <_ 
EXCUSEO MSSELF PROM THE ROOM. I ALYJASS 
LEAVE WEN THE TALK GETS PHILOSOPHICAL. 5
\(\m VA imJBli NOV , 
1WNSWH.V
ume 885, Is195Hing rk,,s1y ,in 
E-TTwc PIECES TOGETHER WHEN 
THE DAME S HIRED 
GCON JUMPED OUT 
OF NOWHERE AHD 
PRKTKED FOR 
rt\S CHIROPRACTK.
DEGREE.
ViUEN HE WAS DONE, AN 
ALLPERCUSSION SSMPHONS 
WAS PlfSlNG IN MS NEAP, 
R AND THE ACCUSERS WERE 
? INCREDIBLE . THE ORCHESTRA, 
WEHT OK A TEN C\TS TOJR 
P Cf MS BRMN. AND I HAD A 
I SEASON PASS WITH FRONT 
 ROW SEATS.
1 HAD FIGURED OUT 
WHO TRASHED THE DAMES 
LIVING RCCM. BUT SINCE 
SHE WASHY NS CHEHY 
&HH MORE, I FELT NO 
HEED TD DWVJLGE THE 
INFORNVATION.
BESIDES, THE 
CULPRVT HAPPEN 
TO BE A BUDD1 
OF MINE. T 
CLOSED THE CA
f Sf
Dos3l ,os3l ,os3PPP 'EU RVm5TpOP :Vgl youre 3-O 
VmO ,-Vp RMosUsmA fVTC 8soUOpO 3,sml ComNl 
R-omAOp sm3V o ,OCO,VM5 OLOCf 5TMM UVVm\"
hoNO o mV3O V5 3-spl hTMVVmPPPP b-O ,VTmp pOOU 
3V gO RoTpO gf gsC p-V3PPP gsA gsC p-V3P
SS2-
b-O gsC3- V5 -Oo0-Tm3smA
zsCo55O 3VTAATfp
"8OO -V, 3-O LOAO3o3sVm -op gOOm 3CoUkMO 5Mo3 -OC55M 
xsUUf\ b-o3 3OMMp UO ,-OCO o OOC gOO V,m V | 
3-O msA-3P t53OC o ,-sMOl fVTMM OLOMVk om OfO 5VC 
3-OpO 3-smAp fVTCpOM5P"
b-O oC 8sO sp o osMf 5Oo3TCO sm 3-O Gs33pgTCAGVp3 zoHO33OP
uoMLsm om dVggOp sp o osMf 5Oo3TCO sm 3-O Gs33pgTCAGCOppP

---------------------------------------------------

CookiniOe.Tr,X
~7"7?- Plolrz. 7^2z-clCJ CL hf~G~ I'i7 -7 1/
Ct/kWoTriiflviWVl
Ca\
ATreyvTiow fie'MS'tes:
Due. +o +Jie 
amoim't df K'yo^'1/2
V-tC--iv^oL 5i'wci 
M>ut, lie. /-S be.\\A.y 
discoinfowej-.-.E>.Bcu^J
'W - ol'""!3u-t wKy-!
q3uRPTsoP  F
lUaro-cfc.t', 
t-}e.rb><-rt'.
(^nt y 
\o"H
re, Tb
uQbu0DP
$Tm vu>
5ut UlAoi) you l^ioy 
a5tc/ kyyejns
JliSCoK+iMUatl C karucfel-S 
Wec-t D'vJ^ol^v-l^eo-J-i,
a:^.? CJe'fur* -/*> 
SJJs flus 'MD/cSoi^-e SW!"1
,4 y\e.u *&. ^x>dV5T3fre
D dfa m b C. cx.r"tO
So all your friends think your the best 
thing since DaVinci, and you just needed 
that leeetle something to convince Maw and
Paw you were worth all that trouble........
Draw for The TARTAN! We need talent 
like yours for comic strips, political 
cartoons, and other fun graphical tid-bits.
If you have any questions call John Lin at 
x2111.
SL.K

---------------------------------------------------

cb
&\ues
ftAfi
PLXK77 CkUh^CKi
ACT A/Ow /tA/D~Tv)
r.unpp -------------*7 "~
r^i
(CorfCII^
7
-JTHISJU
nBfusRug!umccgfQ>
J 0
1 / WAKING Up\
I IS I-WR j)
1 WO DO y/
oLrfj
phytak klaklyl
STUPID CARTOON U Sill
[le'S rrance'^ ^JW, sex VpU"
W cU^eA Afntrltan ^tnct in "Grn G< ~
4 OOSM W'<, k^od - ^ \^|Ou.
(feifb DlfPlTT-to
To yecowT/AJo-e>..

---------------------------------------------------

raoGiFS EH3Boiii rnnnn0QE10 E3EHE3EIE) 00Q0OSQB SaHBJIIlia BEBE
00000030 [301300013 0HEIEH1EE0H13 0OI3Q
bO tLB53VbTC8 V50Inns gfieF, Ronnie5 
bter\ abd^'tec) by
vittwoT lopfWi mS undaythTHE elftem
l,srwewr)ffaw(vj5
w 'kY l vx3CBbD"5 T>r^ea [VVh Plea sC
+?ienT 
Wbr gyte
...l'tl Pl$5otJUMt 80H05.
ite also %mr>%D rab
/HAfiM SVSftM.. MT OUT Quiaj
POKJTuuoOiV4EEZUS, TH 6C#J6 
-n? PIE if X dont 
6<out OF H V fcOON>> 
sMftP our rs rr,wooi-uo/sTH 
Voo'ftE A ,sHE-P ! DftLVlTH /ff 
RVk? s "t0000000000000000000^Tttc6 ftUSS 
tAJia K6frP 
INJCnJ6 Ut
IMTH TWIH9D6S' urne i 
% exe*...
 l SJT rtevor
r BtfT THAMfy 
AitfHowHUrtPww?u/Hsns
TWS?
by TJenThorson
: W&rer,BA:
OJJR^PM . /noviE 1>..so/HWeu), tVi 
G0IU6 T& &IUt Hfeft. TK'WRHtoMt?"
VW ftlbW/ 
PO 'lOu TfflwK TM JtTGcito...OJzc
c1b 'h 
GD 
Ttel!?/ >
xOT0 1' Rmm5 d53voRvpm1yvP 
53brvt8' 3C3tv /n'i 'h^M'^15M1bsx0OO1h7V sLOCKS,pgK5R V T3from i..vv. ------  PEftSoNRL J
u GyBBGsV . B
UU,U>e\-L , Come HR6 WD Nhume ex?i-ftiMTlou NEW ooMcerry
TMXPS, 0?K)MMCir 
RHjNb / WfCAM't i-fcT ANY oFittn 
| tSMft ujOk
**<?/wT
Irii*1 He.
wCs fifteen*! WCAMTiir HatBowfe
Noto//
m8nno;
g,lIo
mu899
18uM
tuyc88 53 ------ mask 14 Suffix for
54 1965 baseball HVP, dtffer
1 Lower back Zoilo ------ 21 Bullfighter
11 Highest point 57 1492 ship 25 Born
15 Fear of heights 58 --------Japanese War 27 Eastern group of
16 Discomfort 59 Fiendish colleges (abbr.)
17 Circus performers 61 City in Oklahoma 2B "Such ----- for the
(2 wds.) 62 Expect course"
18 Hass. ------ of Tech. 63 Moslem potentates 29 Leaves out
19 Wedding words (pi.) 64 Abstainer 32 Argentine plains
20 German city nniuu 34 Spahn's teammate22 Hr. Scully UUWN 36 Part of an ,nter_
23 Never: Ger. 1 Aids to digestion section (2 wds.)
24 Type of soup 2 Sourness 38 Go to ------
26 Actor Roscoe ------ 3 Rudy Vallee, e.g. 39 Departing
28 Han's name 4 Actors Ely and 40 Regton of Asia
30 John or Jane Howard Hi nor
31 Medicinal 5 Hake a choice 41 Try to equal or
substances 6 If ------ a Hammer" surpass
33 One named after 7 Arthur Hiller 43 Sound
another family 44 Come forth
35 Rests 8 Spanish or 45 Secondhand dealer
37 Italian coin Portuguese 48 12H cents (2 wds.)
38 High Hefner bunny 9 U.S. military 51 Urges
42 Hard worker decoration (2 wds.)55 Malay law
46 Poetic terra 10 Peggy or Mama 56 Brazilian heron
47 Ads 11 Relating to bees 57 Pain drink
49 Alaskan city 12 G.B. Shaw play 58 Red, Black, or
50 NFL team, ------ Bay 13 Recognized yellow
52 Play on words incorrectly 60 Ignited
These are the 
answers to last 
issue's puzzle.
" v,oC xTMsTp
:.  ;.

---------------------------------------------------

SPONSORED BY THE DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS
The Future of 
Europe in the Face of 
the Disintegration of 
the Soviet Union
b1v8^t)P htyud a6l aYYa 
a60 a Gh
PROFESSOR 
JAMES GOODBY
Dd vyyvbb ycchP 8w' :c dtrr
SOUP
SUBSTANCE
:y'Sz )c1'M MP1Su' '* pVTk om gOLOCoAOp ,sMM gO kCVLsOP
xthv8 zcc^:) sp o sp3sm2
ATsp-O pOCLsRO kCV5OppVC sm 3-O 
'm3OCmo3sVmoM GOoRO om 8ORTCs3f 
GCVACoUP t 5VCOsAm pOCLsRO V55s2
ROC ,s3- qF fOoCp R/kOCsRmRRl 
zVVgfp 5VCUOC kVp3p smRMTO 
oUgoppoVC 3V smMom om R-sO5 
V5 3-O 1P8P OMOAo3sVm 3V 3-O 
uVm5OCOmRO Vm ^spoCUoUOm3 sm 
vTCVkOP dsp COpOoCRsm3OCOp3p 
oCR sm oCUp RVm3CVMl vTCVkOom 
om tpsom pORTCs3f sppTOp om 
sm3OCmo3sVmoM mOAV3so3sVmpP
SCHOLARSHIPS
IT' ' 
available from the
Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers 
Foundation (SHPE)
Requirements:Hispanic Background 
College Student 
Full-time enrollment 
Engineering or Science Major
Application Deadline:  April 15,1991
Scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic 
achievement, financial need, involvement in school and 
community activities, and counselor recommendations. 
Scholarships range in value from $300 to $3,000.
For additional information and an application, stop in the Financial 
Aid Office, Warner Hall 210, Extension 2068.
BlIo1lh yn,HHou yuF,9o
uIRISH NIGHT
SUNDAY, MARCH 17, 1991 
5:30 P.M.
Three hours of sailing complemented by Irish music and dancing with a
special Irish buffet dinner.
$15.00/person
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
SPONSORED BY STUDENT AFFAIRS

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
o-rIs9 Mo9I,soM I8 (om85o 
Ieo FnI,5lIo lMlHIlI,8s
tmf 8R-,oC3HB"aYYa 1msLOCpoM us3f 83TsVpl 'mRP 
Nick Lang (Michael J. Fox) and John Moss (James Woods) find 
themselves in a gun battle in a New York City subway.
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Put two well-known actors to
gether, one whos a cop and the 
other whos usually annoying or 
crazy or both, work on the comic 
implications of two people who 
hate each other, have them solve 
a big case together, and what do 
you have? Thats right... a buddy 
cop film. 48 Hours was a classic in 
this genre, Lethal Weapon was the 
next high point, now we have The 
Hard Way.
Sure, its got a lot of the action 
film clichs we all know and love. 
Theres the traditional scene 
where the good guy and the bad 
guy play rugby with the loose 
pistol. Theres the obligatory little 
red laser dot traipsing across the 
forehead of a would-be victim, 
which has been a Hollywood staple 
ever since Terminator. And theres 
the mandatory car chase/car
( Movie Review (
???VaTHE HARD WAY. tmV3-OC sm 
3-O MVmA MsmO V5 gTf RVk 5sMUpP 
xoUOp DVVp om hsR-oOM xP V/ 
p3oC sm 3-sp pTCkCspsmAMf 5Tmmf 5sMUP
smash up scene.
The blunt reality is that most 
good ideas for this sort of movie 
have been used. However, The 
Hard Way is still a good, fun film, 
and its worth two hours of your 
life.
James Woods plays Lt. John 
Moss, a hard-boiled New York 
police officer, (arent they always 
hard-boiled in these films?) 
while Michael J. Fox plays Holly
wood star and spoiled brat Nick 
Lang.
Nick has a long and successful 
career of playing Joe Gunn, whos 
an Indiana Jones clone. However,
he wants to break away from this 
schlock and do some serious act
ing. Specifically, he wants to play 
the lead role in a cop movie, and 
he wants to work with a real po
lice officer to get a feel for the role.
Of all the cops in the world, he 
picks Moss because hes working 
on a high-profile serial killer case 
and has made the national news. 
Nick packs up, heads to New York, 
and Moss gets pulled from his big 
Party Crasher case to baby-sit 
Lang. Hes unhappy, hes pissed, 
but hes got no other choice ... so 
its off to work they go.
As expected, Moss ignores his 
orders by continuing his pursuit 
of the Party Crasher, even though 
hes supposed to keep Lang out of 
harms way. The movie naturally 
comes to a gripping finale when 
Moss and Lang face off against 
the Party Crasher, and Lang 
proves his transformation from 
celluloid adventurer to real-life
hero.
All right, the plot is pretty 
standard fare, but the dialogue 
makes up for it adequately. The 
writers managed to do a good'job 
of writing a comedy without fall
ing into the trap of really dumb 
jokes. The most graphic evidence 
of this is the cleverness with which 
Hollywood lampoons itelf 
through Foxs character. !
When doing this kind of film, 
the chemistry between the lead 
roles is key, and the casting crew 
did a great job by picking Woods 
and Fox. Woods has always ben 
able to play a great mean gu#  
as a matter of fact, his role in The 
Hard Way is pretty light com
pared to some of his early roles. 
Fox is believable as the vapid 
Lang. If anything, hes too good 
portraying the spoiled Lang early 
on. In turn, it becomes almost too 
hard to believe he could eyer 
GMOopO pOO dty^ Dt)l koAO rr6
Cyrano. And Anne Brochets Roxane 
seems flighty more often than sympa
thetic. However, Cyrano is such a strong 
character that the others are inevitably 
overshadowed, and much of this derives 
from the original play.
The final product is slightly different 
from the standard script by the original 
author, Edmond Rostand. Rather than 
filtering the words directly onto the 
screen, Rappeneau reworked and 
adapted the text, adding energy and ac
tion. Although English-speakers cannot 
fully appreciate the deft twists in the 
original French, the English subtitles 
for the new version were written by 
Anthony Burgess, author of the famous 
novel A Clockwork Orange, and have 
literary value in themselves.
Despite its age and literary quality, 
the film never seems archaic. One par
ticular scene, in which Roxane breaks 
through the front lines of fighting dis
guised as a soldier, would not be out of 
place in one of the Indiana Jones movies. 
Roxanes wedding preparations verge on 
slapstick comedy. Its also surprising how 
frequently you can detect shades of 
Roxanne in this film. Still, the film is 
quite faithful to the original.
Rappeneau retained the traditional 
pattern of rhyming dialogue throughout 
the play, and if you follow closely, the 
English subtitles even rhyme when pos
sible. And the brisk pace is not followed 
at the price of superficialitythe theme
"aYYe cCsVm GsR3TCOp
Christian (Vincent Perez, right) thanks Cyrano (Grard Depardieu) for his help winning 
over the hand of Roxane.
of a characters pain at being sundered 
from society because of a physical de
formity comes through clearly, especially 
in the melancholy ending.
Much of the appeal of Cyrano also de
pends on the atmosphere Created by the 
lavish production. The 2,000 extras, all 
in period costumes, and many elaborate 
sets and locations create the feel of an 
earlier century  from the busily scur
rying preparations at the theater in the
first scene to the battle scenes which can 
only be described in the old movie clich 
of spectacular. This distinctive ambi
ance provides a refreshing change fifoni 
the contemporary look of most filmsj to
day. \
Cyrano de Bergerac is one of the irjost 
worthwhile movies to be released ijn a 
long time. It is uniformly excellent, nd 
will probably become established as 'the 
ultimate adaptation of a universal story.
formula works well in The Hard Way
Oliver Stones d,5 a99re 
makes absolutely no sense
( Movie Review (
"aYYa bCs083oC GsR3TCOpl<'mRP
Ray Manzarek (Kyle MacLachlan), Jim Morrison (Val Kilmer), Robby Krieger (Frank Whaley), and John Densmore (Kevin Dilljon) 
test the bounds of reality in The Doors.
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
No one could ever accuse Oliver Stone 
of being subtle. From the Christian over
tones of Platoon to the histrionics of Wall 
Street, Talk Radio and Born on the Fourth 
of July, Stones films have been charac
terized by their machine-gun melodrama 
and sledgehammer symbolism.
In spite of this, or perhaps because of 
this, the films listed above are among the 
most engaging and thought-provoking 
films of the past decade  throughout 
Ms career, Stones own heavy handed
ness has served as his saving grace, 
pulling stupendous performances out of 
his actors and turning the worst cin
ematic clichs into compelling enter
tainment. Unfortunately, Stones abili
ties cannot carry him through The Door s.
In this overblown story of the rise and 
fall, and fall, and fall of Jim Morrison, 
Stone has created a monster  a film so 
Jong, self-involved, and obvious in its 
Pretensions of depth that it fails at al
most every level.
Throughout the three-hour span of his 
narrative, Stone assaults the audience 
with every trick in his cinematic bag. 
Stones camera whirls through the stars, 
flies through the skies, delivering some 
truly awesome aerial photography, 
whirls into dizzying tunnel vision, twists 
and turns (many of the shots are remi
niscent of the manner in which villains 
Were often photographed in the old
? THE DOORS. tm O/RCTRso3smA kpfR-OOMsR 
CVUk 3-CVTA3-O MsLOpl MVLOpl om CTAp V5 
xsU hVCCspVmP 83oCCsmA oM wsMUOCl hOA 
yfoml wfMO hoRroR-Moml ComN D-oMOfl om 
wOLsm ^sMMVmP
Batman TV show  the camera is sel
dom level) and tilts and pans and closes 
in and zooms out, photographing every
thing from faces, crowds, celestial ob
jects, musical instruments and, most im
portantly, bottles of whiskey in ways in 
which no viewer would probably imagine 
possible.
Stones barrage doesnt end with his 
camera work, though. Even the sound 
engineering in his film grabs the viewer 
and informs him that every second up on 
the screen is a happening of cataclysmic 
importance. When flashbulbs go off (in 
slow motion, of course) theyre accompa
nied by bursts of sound reminiscent of 
the explosion of the Death Star. When
ever a bottle of scotch is opened, the 
sound is so heavily echoed and amplified 
that one would think the sound engineer 
crawled into the bottle in order to record 
the effect. Even Jim Morrisons orgasms 
seem to have been dubbed in 
sensurround.
To make matters worse, Stone crowds 
his frame with a confused stew of pseudoarchetypal images. In one especially
nauseating burst of pomposity, Stone 
shows Morrison and one of his lovers 
drinking each others blood, cavorting, 
copulating and climaxing while a pas
sage from Orffs Carmina Burana rages 
in the soundtrack. The Doors is so 
overburdened with false symbolism that 
one would be hard pressed to find one 
moment devoid of it. Double-exposed 
Navaho chieftains, caves, wild felines, 
swords, drops of blood and the moon all 
dance around Morrison, all signifying 
something that Stone must believe is far 
too self-evident to define.
All of Stones rabid gesturing would 
have probably still made for a great film
 as it has in so many of its previous 
efforts  if The Doors did not lack one 
crucial element: a screenplay. Of course, 
there are lines for the actors to shout at 
each other, but most of them seem to 
have been picked out of a hat containing 
randomly selected clippings of Jung, 
Nietzche, Ginsburg, and anybody else 
who has ever been considered deep. 
Nowhere in this film does one get a clear 
picture of who Jim Morrison was or why 
anybody ever put up with him. Walking
into this picture I knew, from growing up 
in America, that Morrison was a tal
ented rock vocalist and lyricist with po
etic aspirations who also was an abusive 
lout and managed to do a lot of drugs and 
GMOopO pOO ^ccy8l koAO ra6
What the stars mean |
? ?*** Masterpiece 
? ??? Excellent 
??? Good 
?? Fair 
? Poor
By CHARLES SABATOS ---------------------------------------------
Tartan Staffwriter  Movie Review (
Cyrano de Bergerac has always been 
regarded as one of the greatest plays in 
French literature. Cyrano, whose 
swashbucklingmanner conceals a tender, 
poetic nature deeply ashamed of his huge 
nose, is one of the most well-known 
dramatic characters in the world. The 
newest film version, this one directed by 
Jean-Paul Rappeneau in the original 
French, explores Cyranos tragedy and 
does it justice.
Cyrano is a bold swordsman and leader 
of a military regiment whos equally deft 
with words. Yet, hes unable to confess 
his love for the beautiful Roxane, who 
loves the handsome Christian de 
Neuvillette. When Christian joins the 
regiment, Roxane begs Cyrano to protect 
him. Cyrano not only lives up to his vow, 
but manages to indirectly express his 
own passion by writing Christians love 
letters for him.
Roxane falls in love with the romantic 
voice expressed in the letters and refuses 
to accept Christian for himself, just as 
she cannot see past Cyranos nose. The 
two men collaborate in one of the cleverest 
and most famous scenes, in which 
Christian stands beneath Roxanes bal
cony while Cyrano hides behind him and 
calls up to Roxane in the passionate 
words only he can muster. His efforts are 
so effective that Roxane and Christian
????o CYRANO DE BERGERAC. b-O
pRCOOm LOCpsVm V5 3-O 5oUVTp COmRkMof V5 
3-O poUO moUOP 83oCCsmA zCoC ^OkoCsOTl 
tmmO :CVR-O3l om smROm3 GOCOHP t3 3-O 
Gs33pgTCAGMof-VTpO 3-CVTA-VT33-O UVm3- 
V5 hoCR-P
are married that night, just before the 
regiment goes to war. However, even 
though Cyrano successfully managed to 
bring Roxane and Christian together, 
hes now without his true love. Whats a 
romantic to do?
Oscar nominee Grard Depardieu lives 
up to the challenges of the title role with 
the brilliance expected from Frances 
greatest actor. Unlike his light role in 
the recently released Green Card, the part 
of Cyrano offers him real challenges.
Depardieu handles the tricky dialogue 
and intense action equally well, making 
Cyrano seem completely lifelike. It also 
helps that his rather rough face, which 
boasts a sizable nose of its own, makes 
Cyranos nose look natural (unlike Steve 
Martins putty appendage seen in 
Roxanne, a modernized American ver
sion of Cyrano).
The other central performances suffer 
slightly in comparison to Depardieus. 
Christian, played by Vincent Perez, never 
becomes much more than a foil for
Old

---------------------------------------------------

LL2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
d,5 a99re 9,5Hnh 5lo9 s8 9os9o
D.OORS, from page Lll
damage. Walking out of the the
ater three hours later I knew 
about as much, and cared much 
less.
The screenplay, co-written by 
Stone, shows little of the chemis
try between Morrison and his 
bandmates, and much less of that 
between Morrison and his com
panion Pamela Courson. After 
' Morrison locks her in a closet and 
sets the closet on fire, one won
ders, quite rightly, what it was 
that kept Courson by Morrisons 
side in spite of all of his abuse  
.but The Doors seems less con
cerned with this than with 
showing Morrison going from one 
orgy/violent rage/flash of intro
spection/bout of self-destructive 
behavior to another.
Word has it that the Courson 
estate (Pamela Courson died, or 
joined Jim, as the films final 
_ title declares, shortly after 
Morrison, leaving the bulk of his 
memoirs in the custody of her 
parents) denied Stone the privi
lege of portraying their daughter 
as anything but a victim of Jim 
Morrison. Apparently, Jim 
Morrisons parents also kept 
Stone from portraying them in 
his version. Whereas Stone may 
have had difficulties in showing 
the full story behind his charac
ters, this hardly absolves him from 
the burden of presenting some 
sort of dramatic tension, charac
ter motivation, or even dialogue 
in his scenes.
Stones earlier film, Born on the 
Fourth of July, managed to 
present valuable insights and 
lessons in spite of the fact that 
many of its dramatic scenes were 
outright fabrications. Stones in
ability to portray certain aspects 
of Morrisons life doesnt absolve 
him of the burden of coherency.
The Doors is infuriatingly un
even, dropping plotlines, charac
ters and relationships with a 
reckless disregard for continuity 
and story. One wonders exactly 
what Stones aim was in creating 
this film, and why he pursued it 
at the expense of everything that 
might have made it memorable.
After the audience, it is the ac
tors who suffer most as a result of 
Stones inability to give coherent 
shape to his narrative. Val
The Hard 
Way uses 
buddy cop 
formula well
HARD WAY, from page Lll
change into the cop he wants to 
be.
Except for a cameo by Penny 
Marshall as Langs agent, the 
supporting cast is nothing spe
cial. Stephen Lang, who plays the 
Party Crasher, looks like a distant 
relative of Christopher Lloyd, and 
his performance is more 
cartoonish than scary. Hardly a 
serial killer to be afraid of.
In the casting coup of the de
cade, rap star L.L. Cool J played 
one of Woods fellow officers as 
well as contributing to the 
soundtrack. Ill say this of his 
thespian debut, hes not going to 
get offers iorDeath of a Salesman 
any time soon. His six lines were 
more wooden than a forest of se
quoias. Sorry, L.L., but you just 
arent that type of actor.
In short, The Hard Way isnt 
quite the classic that Lethal 
Weapon is, but its definitely worth 
a look. Woods and Fox turn in 
great performances, and more 
importantly, theyre actually 
given a good script. Theres not 
much new ground covered, but 
who cares? Take The Hard Way 
in the spirit of the buddy cop genre 
and have a good time.
FREE CATALOG
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
 Free Catalog
Box q4eee 
wT-5mA3Vm ^u 20013-7000
A
* ..
j k.
"aYYa bCs083oC GsR3TCOpl 'mRP
Jim Morrison (Val Kilmer) gets escorted away because of his defiant behavior during one of his concerts.
Kilmers portrayal of Jim 
Morrison is like a natural force. 
Although he is given precious little 
by the script, Kilmers knowledge 
of Morrison pays off handsomely. 
In his performance, Kilmer pre
sents a picture of magnetism, 
strength, and insanity which is 
intensely frightening.
As the rest of The Doors, Kyle 
MacLachlan, Kevin Dillon and 
Frank Whaley do their best with 
what they are given. As Ray 
Manzarek, founder and 
keyboardist of The Doors, 
MacLachlan appears to burst at 
the seams, as if he is waiting to be 
given something to do. Although 
the opportunity never arises for 
MacLachlan to create a fully real
ized character, he does have one 
of the best moments in the film, a 
quiet, understated dialogue 
(without background music or vi
sual effects) in which Manzarek 
convinces a young Jim Morrison 
to join him in a band by doing a 
Bob Dylan imitation.
As guitarist John Densmore, 
Whaley is unfortunately saddled 
with one of those asinine lines 
which pretend to sum up the en
tire message of the film but ap
pear entirely out of place and 
character: backstage at a concert, 
Whaley is called upon to scold 
Morrison by yelling We did drugs 
to expand our minds, not to es
cape! This is not John Densmore,
or even Frank Whaley speaking, 
it is Oliver Stone trying desper
ately hard to be the Oliver Stone 
of Wall Street and Platoon.
Worst off is Meg Ryan. In the 
role of Pamela Courson, Ryan is 
pivotal to the film, but does little 
more than complain, be cheated 
upon, take abuse, give Jim 
Morrison a blow job during a re
cording session, and eventually 
watch him die. Although she usu
ally is a joy to watch, Meg Ryans 
struggle with the void she has to 
play in and against is uncomfort
able and ultimately painful to see.
Also appearing in the film are 
Crispin Glover as Andy Warhol, 
Billy Idol as a renegade film di
rector, the real-life John 
Densmore as a sound engineer, 
and Paul Williams (yes, Paul Wil
liams) as one of Warhols lackeys.
Watching all of these people in 
inconsequential and unnecessary 
cameos was fun and it helped 
pass the time, but their presence 
is indicative of this films pen
chant for throwing as much 
weirdness as possible at the 
viewer in hopes that the viewer 
will miss the gaping holes in the 
plot.
The Doors is a spectacularly 
made film, but the end result of 
the spectacle is very little. Some 
have argued that Stone made this 
film in order to show the dark side 
of the self-righteous sixties, and
it is dark and disturbing, but it is 
only during the small, quiet mo
ments that anything in The Doors 
comes to life. Its sad that moments 
such as the conversation which 
heralds the birth of the band, or a 
brief shot in which Morrison and 
Densmore take a walk while the 
familiar sound of Manzareks 
intro to Light my Fire evolves in 
the background are lost in the 
maelstrom.
Sitting through The Doors is like 
watching a strangers acid trip: 
its weird, and some of the parts 
evoke something, but most of it 
simply makes no sense.
Student Affairs sponsors 
a night at the Symphony
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon faculty, staff, 
and students with a taste for 
classical music will have a 
chance to enjoy a unique con
cert presentation when the Di
vision of Student Affairs spon
sors a special University Night 
at the Pittsburgh Symphony 
this Thursday night.
Conducted by Barbara Yahr, 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra will make a valiant at
tempt to meet contemporary 
tastes halfway with an assort
ment of classical pieces found 
in the soundtracks of recent 
popular movies. Among the se
lections are excerpts from 
Mozarts 25th Symphony (found 
in Amadeus), Wagners Flight 
of the Valkyries (featured in 
Apocalypse Now), and Barbers 
Adagio for Strings (from Pla
toon).
However hallowed and time
less the music, the presenta
tion will be anything but typi
cal. Selections will be embel
lished in a variety of unusual 
media, including slide accom
paniments and dramatic read
ings. Audience members will 
have an opportunity to commu
nicate with the conductor and 
orchestra via microphone dur
ing portions of the evening. The 
Pittsburgh Symphony collabo
rated with a body of Pittsburgh 
colleges and universities in an 
. effort to design an innovative 
and engaging performance.
The concert proper is bound 
to tickle the fancy of harmony 
fans, but theres much more to 
the evening than just music. 
After the initial deluge of cul
ture, attendants will frolic in 
the relaxed atmosphere of the 
post-concert reception, which 
will offer live jazz music, a prize 
drawing for a stereo system, 
and, of course, food.
In addition to the above, the 
Symphony will donate $1 per 
ticket of the proceeds to the 
Greater Pittsburgh Community 
Food Bank.
According to Katie Stannard, 
assistant to the Dean of Stu
dent Affairs, Its a great oppor
tunity for those who havent 
ever been to the Symphony this 
year. I think it says a lot that 
theyre trying to plan an evening 
solely for students in Pitts
burgh.
The concert will be held at 
Heinz Hall on Thursday at 7:30 
pm. Student Affairs will hold a 
pre-reception and provide free 
transportation as well. Tickets 
are available at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk starting today. 
Admission is $7 per head, dis
counted from the usual rate of 
$10. All CMU students, staff, 
and faculty are invited.
PASSOVER IS 
MARCH 29 to APRIL 6
nos
MAKE YOUR PLANS TODAY ! ! !
BNAI BRITH HILLEL HAS IT ALL . ..
SEDERS . . . PASSOVER DAILY MEALS . . . HOME HOSPITALITY 
SEDER KITS: HAGGADOT, SEDER PLATES, SHANKBONES
Pick up a detailed information sheet in Hillel's campus mailbox in Skibo. 
Or, you can give us a call at 621-8875.
OAKLANDS BEST KEPT SECRET
MARCH 91
SUNMONTUEWED
the 
r Juggernaut"
O
THUR FRI
681 -8756 
681 - 6300
SAT
Juggernaut Lounge ~ Having a Party 
In the Howard Johnson's Talk to us first 
Restaurant
3401 Blvd. of the Allies 1An/ , i . j. . opens daily at 4:00 ~ 10% Student dlSCOUIltS
Hospital 1 
Night! 
discount 
prices til 
12:00
Hospital ID 
req.
D.J. 2
Top 40 
9:00-1:30
Beer Blast! 3 
7:00- 11:00 
discount prices
Blue Monday! 4 
Pittsburgh 
Blues Society 
Jam 8-
Midnight, No 
cover
MENS 5 
NIGHT! 
discount prices 
catch the action 
our BIG 
SCREEN
Import ^ 
Bottles! 
discount 
7:00- 
11:00
LADIES 7
NIGHT
discount
prices
7-11
Hospital 8 
Night!
Discount 
prices 
Hospital ID 
req
DJ. 9 
OLDIES 
9:00- 1:30
Beer Blast! 10 
7:00-11:00 
discount prices
BLUE 11 
MONDAY 
LIVE MUSIC! 
8:00- 12:00 
No Cover!
MEET THE 12
GENESEE
GIRLS!
8-10DJ7-
11 Penguin
Tiks
Import 13 
Bottles! 
Discount 
7:00- 11:00
MOOSE14
HEAD
NIGHT!
8 - 10 Get 
your picture 
taken with the 
moose
DJ Rock & 15 
Classic Trax 
9-1:30
DJ 16
Top 40 
9-1:30
Happy St. 17 
Pattys Day!!! 
Live Music 
Traxx No 
Cover!
BLUE I8 
MONDAY 
LIVE MUSIC! 
8:00-12:00 
NO COVER!
Catch the 19 
action - on 
our BIG 
SCREEN!
Import 20 
Bottles! 
discount 
7:00-11:00
LADIES 21 
NIGHT 
discount 
7-11
Hospital 22 
Night! 
discount 
prices til 12:00 
Hospital ID 
req
DJ 23
OLDIES
9:00-1:30
BEER BLAST 24 
7- 11
BEER BLAST 31 
7- 11
COMEDY 25 
NIGHT your 
favorite comics 
on our big 
screen!
PRIZES 26 
Miller
Genuine Draft 
PATROL 
GIRLS 8-10 
DJ 7 - 11 
GIVE-AWAYS
Import 27 
Bottles! 
discount 
7:00-11:00
NO COVER 28 
THE MACHO 
MEN male dancers 11-12 
DJ LADIES 
ONLY (sorry guys!)
Hospital 29 
Night! 
discount 
prices til 
12:00
Hospital ID 
req
DJ 30
TOP 40 
9:00- 1:30

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
We are looking for someone to lead
Tartan Photography
The Photo Editor is an Editorial Board member 
responsible for all photography that appears in the paper. 
Photographic experience is not necessary, but is a plus.
Interested? Call x2111 and leave a message for Tom or Katie
.3d 
5 U*!Wt
 'sn'Tl-pir
in
2M

.A
;r.sW 
ool 
Jqfi1
rayjg 
: Ojjw
Place
Pitt. Horizons 
logo hereSponsored 6y Student Affairs
Yearbook captures reality a little too
A few days ago I happened to be 
watching an old episode of Silver 
Spoons. Rick was having a six
teenth birthday party and really 
wanted to invite this beautiful 
girl. Unfortunately, through a 
series of mishaps, he invited a 
rather ugly girl (translation: short 
with glasses) by mistake. In the 
end, of course, he discovers that 
the beautiful girl is stuck-up and 
cares only for herself, while the 
ugly girl is actually very nice and 
idolizes Rick (which apparently 
suits Rick just fine). Ricks happy, 
the ugly girl is happy, his parents 
are proud. Sigh.
As I watched this debacle un
fold, I realized how divorced from 
any form of reality these teen 
shows are. Its like some sort of 
dream world: everyone is the 
perfect weight and height. There 
are no zits to be found, and no one 
ever swears. The exception, of 
course, is the ugly girl (or the 
ugly/clumsy boy) who doesnt fit 
in with the rest of the crowd and 
usually receives either ridicule or 
pity.
I remember none of this from 
my high school years. No one was 
perfect, although almost everyTHE LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
one wanted to be. There wasnt 
one popular crowd and one ugly 
person, there were many little 
groups and most of those not in 
the popular crowd had no desire 
to be part of it. There wasnt one 
ugly person; rather, most students 
thought they were ugly. Thats 
part of the magic of adolescence.
At any rate, I found myself 
wondering how useful shows like 
Silver Spoons are. This isnt high 
school, this is a bunch of adult 
writers imagining what high 
school should be.
Which is why the premiere of 
Yearbook intrigued me. Cameras 
film the lives of real high school 
students in Glen Ellyn, Illinois, 
and America sees a portrait of 
high school life that it hasnt seen 
before. Sure, there are parties,
dances, and a Homecoming queen, 
but there are also drugs, family 
crises, and pregnancy (words that 
were never part of Ricks vo
cabulary).
Not everyone is Hollywood 
beautiful. In fact, no one is. Not 
everyone knows the right thing to 
say. These could be kids from my 
old high school  theyre real.
In the first episode, we meet 
three Homecoming Queen candi
dates. One of them, Kelly Ruff, 
has a problem: her fathers in the 
hospital, So who will be her escort 
should she happen to win? Her 
mother volunteers in a tearful 
conversation.
Donna Michalski is expecting a 
baby and has just broken up with 
Tim Dodaro, the father. Tim is 
supporting Donna and the child 
and doesnt want the relationship 
to end. In the school psychologists 
office, his mother breaks down as 
she expresses her desire for her 
grandchild to have two loving 
parents.
By the end of the episode, Tim 
and Donna have a talk but dont 
get back together, and Kelly be
comes Homecoming Queen. 
Nothings really resolved, and
there are a lot more students to 
meet, as the previews show.
There is voice-over narration, 
but generally the students, 
teachers, and parents do the 
talking. The result is a documen
tary with a home-video feel.
There are problems. While some 
scenes, like the reactions of the 
final three Queen candidates upon 
hearing of their nominations, 
come off as very natural, most of 
the time the dialogue and action 
seem forced.
Put yourself in the students 
situation. How could you possibly 
act normal with a camera con
stantly in your face? Obviously, 
youre going to watch what you 
say. The discussion between Kelly 
and her mom and the park bench 
confrontation between Tim and 
Donna seem completely staged 
for the camera. In their efforts to 
be real, the characters come off as 
fake.
At the same time, though, no 
matter how much these people 
change for the camera, they cant 
stop being themselves. There are 
real people in there. In the scene 
between Kelly and her mother, 
the gulf between the two seems
Yearbook gives a very close pictur&jftf 
a few people's lives, sometimes a 
little too close.
a.eRc.aA
>1__
huge. The mother constantly asks 
questions and volunteers infor
mation before finally bursting into 
tears. Meanwhile, Kelly speaks 
only when she has to, showing no 
emotion and keeping quite dis
tant. Its amazing what a camera 
can show.
Yearbook gives a very close 
picture of a few peoples lives, 
sometimes a little too close. When 
characters break down, for ex
ample, I feel very uncomfortable. 
I know Ricky Schroder is faking 
it, but Kelly Ruff s mom isnt. Shes 
really crying over something 
thats really upsetting her. I feel 
like Im watching something that 
is none of my business.
Maybe thats good. Maybe we 
need to know that were not the 
only ones with problems. Maybe 
the shock of the real can help us 
solve some of our own problems. 
Maybe it demonstrates that there
is a line between reality and lec
tion, albeit a fuzzy one.
But in the long run, none oftliat 
matters. What matters is tliat
while I see Yearbook as a ijoble 
attempt to capture the teenage 
experience, Im not going to waiph 
it. I can always brush off Sliver 
Spoons as ridiculous fiction, Bujt I 
cant do that with Yearbook. 
Watching Tim and Donna 
struggle for words over a serious 
situation isnt very much fuii;' its 
much easier and considerably 
more pleasant to see whicKgirl 
Rick likes better.
Besides, the kids of Beverly SSlls 
90210 are having a big party 
Im invited. Why deal with realty 
when fantasy is so much more 
comfortable?
Tartan Staffwriter A. Franklin 
Wheeler is a junior professional 
writing major. vjj*
Pharmacology Open House 
Saturday, March 16, 1991 
10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Department of Pharmacology 
School of Medicine 
University of Pittsburgh
 Learn about opportunities in pharmacology for
graduate school 
summer reasearch jobs 
work/study laboratory positions 
careers in pharmacology
 Meet with faculty, students and post-doctoral fellows
* Tour laboratory facillities
 Refreshments
All interested undergraduates invited 
13th Floor, Biomedical Science Tower, University of Pittsburgh 
Enter building through Scaife Hall at Terrace & DeSoto, 
opposite Pitt Stadium 
To help us plan for the Open House, and to 
get precise directions, R.S.V.P. by calling 
Linda Levine at 648-9321
ovari 
fi sd
r!>3S 
i di 
j J ioa
T3 aYq 
KsCs
** MO'
, :Cu2S
: 1 l&O 
1bb9D2. .To
; ?tl. 
' 1:13-37 
. ~C
jxj* 
\ iii 
liia 
"2* en 
it A
,r OWQ
rz3-&
rr.cL-t
Pittsburgh Symphony 
UNIVERSITY NIGHT
mlj THURSDAY, MARCH 14,1991
^ 4*7 ^c BmVCRmm$7.00/person 
6:00 p.m.
A pre-concert reception will take place at 6:00 p.m. in Skibo. 
After the concert, a party/reception with food and live jazz 
music will provide additional entertainment. Transportation 
will be provided!!
Tickets available at the Skibo Information Desk
i

---------------------------------------------------

L14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991
Witness the many faces of Daredevil
; Mother always said dont make 
a deal with the devil. In the case 
of Matthew Murdock, a.k.a. the 
BfiXfidevil, you might want to 
nfttkeran exception. This isnt just 
aoSilier super-powered-hornh&dd-maroon-man fulfilling 
some childhood fantasy  this 
man is a hero.
Hero. What does it mean? Does 
it mean sacrifice for the happiness 
of others? Is there anything such 
as true heroism or is it just that 
heroes are sculpted by ugly cir
cumstances? Is it vanity or guilt 
that fuels the hero? And if it is 
guilt, then what does that say 
about the character of a hero? To 
feel guilt one must feel regret, a 
sense of responsibility. And if one 
feels a sense of responsibility then 
where does that sense come from? 
Perhaps in the answer to that 
question lies the answer to the 
nature of altruism.
There are some emotions we 
understand deeply, some emo
tions that are absolute in their 
definition. One such emotion is 
love. A weathered fathers love 
for his son, a teary-eyed womans 
longing for the voice of a man who 
lives in the fiber optic cables 
stretched across America is an
other kind of love. In one way or 
another we can relate to all these 
situations and many more. Sac
rifice, responsibility, altruism ... 
these words are different struc
tures that naturally rise out of 
the Lego blocks of love. In a sense, 
we are all heroes to somebody 
eljse.
The radius of love, however, 
stretches only as far as the eye 
cn see, to the people who are or 
were once upon a time integral 
payers in our lives. For a true 
hero though, this radius stretches 
even further, so far that it be
comes a circle without circumfernce. To a real hero, it is a conCOMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
suming love for humanity, for the 
best part in all of us which sets 
heroes apart from normal folks. 
The strength to implement your 
morals in the world of action comes 
from such a powerful respect for 
the value of human life. And it is 
the consequences of this imple
mentation which define a hero.
In the world of comic literature 
heroes abound. But too often, 
especially lately, the motivations 
behind the new characters being 
created or redefined are rather 
shallow. Their reason for being 
can be summed in a few words 
such as revenge, atonement, or 
self-preservation. The motiva
tions are vain, and result in 
characters that can be understood 
only by how hard they can hit or 
how high they can fly. The stories 
end up being light and enjoyable 
to some degree, but there are no 
lines to read in between: they 
leave no impact. One comic book 
published by the most 
commercialist company in the 
world, Marvel Comics, is Dare
devil.
This is the story of Matt 
Murdock, a modern day Job, 
whose recurring inner conflicts 
with the meaning of life and mo
rality are the focus of this urban 
crime drama. Murdock was 
blinded when a child, but the same 
radioactive accident which took 
away his sight made all of his 
other senses extremely strong. 
Equipped with this ability, and a
radar sense which allows him to 
sense the contour of objects 
around him, Murdock became the 
dark, brooding hero of New York 
City called Daredevil.
Unlike any other book being 
published today, Daredevil has 
been blessed with some of the 
best talents in comicdom. Nearly 
ten years ago, it was writer/artist 
Frank Miller who redefined the 
premise and the character of the 
book into something the comic 
book world had never seen before. 
He took a rather bland character 
and changed him into a gritty and 
realistic crusader that main
stream comics had never seen 
before.
The trend quickly caught on, 
helping to start the era of reality 
in mainstream comics. After 
stringing together nearly three 
years of unprecedented stories, 
Miller left the book and went on 
to other projects (such as rede
fining Batman into the popular 
icon he is today).
Immediately thereafter, writer 
Denny ONeil, along with artist 
David Mazzuchelli, began their 
tenure on Daredevil. Their work 
was shadowed by Millers work 
for years, and the book remained 
consistently interesting though 
lacking the sense of freshness it 
had during Millers reign.
ONeil remained on the book for 
a few years, finally leaving when 
Miller returned for a half a year 
to write a string of stories which 
remains today as the one of the 
best sagas ever written in comic 
book history. These stories can be 
found reprinted in a compilation 
titled Born Again.
In this set of stories, Murdocks 
life and identity were destroyed. 
Its the destruction and rebirth 
which is the story of Millers swan 
song on Daredevil. After this saga 
ended and Miller left once again,
the book endured an awful period 
of transition till the next phase of 
Daredevils growth began. Unlike 
ONeil, who tried to write Dare
devil in a manner similar to 
Millers (and failed), the new 
writer took Murdock in a com
pletely new direction.
Ann Nocenti along with artist 
John Romita Jr. had one of the 
most underrated runs on a book 
in recent years. Nocenti found a 
new angle for our hero Matthew 
Murdock. An important part of 
the character has always been his 
background as a lawyer and it 
was this aspect that Nocenti ex
plored.
In her magnificent run on the 
book, Daredevil dealt with such 
interesting issues as animal 
rights, toxic waste, homelessness, 
and the recurring theme of civil 
rights. Though at times Nocenti 
made the book a soapbox for her 
fascinating views on social issues, 
she maintained the integrity of 
the character and gave us new 
insight into Murdocks character. 
Her run on the book concluded 
this year as she, like Miller once 
did, subjected Daredevil to im
mense mental torture.
This month starts a new era in 
the story of Daredevil. New 
writer D.G. Chichester seems like 
hes planning to take Murdock 
back to his city roots, reinstalling 
the urban flavor that made 
Daredevil immensely popular 
during Millers run. Though its 
far too early to judge, it seems 
that Chichester is trying to imi
tate Millers defining run on the 
book. The feelings of nostalgia for 
the urban world that Chichester 
is counting on to carry him 
through his early issues will not 
last long and if he is to succeed he 
must make the book his own, as 
Nocenti did, and add to the defini
tion of Daredevil instead of reit
"aYYa hoCLOM vm3OC3osmUOm3 zCVTkl 'mRP 
The Daredevil practices his kick while some punk uses his face as a 
target.
erating it.
It would be a shame to see this 
book turn into a parody of some
one elses concept. Though the 
future remains question-marked, 
this is a title with a rich history 
that is well worth exploring and a 
character worthy of placing your 
trust in.
Daredevil is published by the 
Marvel Entertainment Group Inc.
All comics are courtesy of Phan
tom of the Attic.
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is the junior bi
ology major without fear.
ylHl(noX
Wpp8uMl(noX
WMlHIl(noX
Wpp8,Ml(noX
ruls9H8uIl(noX
Wpp8uMl(noX
When it comes to increasing 
productivity at an economical price, theres 
no tool thats more able.
Meet the Macintosh* Classic* computer. 
Its the most affordable Macintosh, yet it can 
handle a variety of basic home, office, and 
classroom applications, such as word 
processing and spreadsheet analysis.
The Classic is a complete Macintosh.
Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system 
software are all included, as are extras you 
might not expectsuch as the ability to
network and the Apple* SuperDrive"disk 
drive, which lets the Classic read from and 
write to MS-DOS, OS/2, and ProDOS*files.
The Classic can easily go where you 
need to go, when you need to go there. Its 
integrated design, light weight and built-in 
carrying handle are ideal for a person on 
the move.
So come in and see a demonstration. 
And see a new value in personal 
computing that couldn't be more 
respectable. Or affordable.
Available.
For more information visit
the Carnegie 
Mellon Computer 
Store
or call 268-26362
i(

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  11 March 1991L15.
Thursday, March 14
The Freshman (1925)
CMU freshmen reign supreme  at least for 70 
minutesas they will be admitted free of charge for 
the showing of the 1925 film The Freshman. Dont 
get this film confused with the Marlon Brando/ 
Matthew Broderick of the same name. The two are 
completely different films.
In this film, Harold Lloyd plays a country bump
kin whos trying to survive college and will do just 
about anything to become popular. Upperclassmen 
will surely get a kick out of recognizing the embar
rassment that they once felt in their first year and 
take the opportunity to put the attending freshmen 
in their place. The football game finale alone is a 
reason to see this film.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, March 15
The Freshman (1990)
Take a wild ride with Marlon Brando as he pokes 
fun at his Oscar-winning performance as Don 
Corleone in the 1972 masterpiece The Godfather.
Matthew Broderick stars as a NYU college fresh
man whos not only trying to survive college, but 
trying to survive life in the Big Apple. However, in 
a weeks time hes robbed, meets the Don who 
makes him an offer he cant refuse, becomes in
volved in illegal activities, and gets engaged to the 
bosss daughter.
In addition to the great performance by Brando, 
the constant comic references to The Godfather 
make this a great film to watch. So, if just cant get 
enough of those Corleones and want to see a great 
comedy at the same time, check out The Freshman.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, March 16
Henry and June
Controversy surrounds this landmark film, as it 
was the first to receive the new NC-17 rating from 
the national ratings board. One will see why after 
viewing this film, which is based on the diary of 
Anais Nin and her relationship with writer Henry 
Miller and his wife, June, in the bohemian Paris of 
the early 1930s.
The film focuses on the erotic tension between the 
three as the theme of sexuality bursts onto the 
literary scene. Fred Ward plays Henry, who is in the 
process of writing a novel that will stun the world. 
His beautiful, disturbed wife June (Uma Thurman) 
and Anai's (Maria de Medeiros) complete the trio and 
offer wonderful performances.
See Henry and June and decide for yourself-is 
it a powerful display of complex desire and sensual 
beauty, or just a good skin flick?
At 7, 9:30,12
Sunday, March 17
Star Trek V: The 
Final Frontier
Each one of us carries within him a secret pain. 
Share your pain and become stronger through the 
sharing....
Have you ever heard such unadulterated cheese? 
Star Trek V continues the tradition  started with 
Star Trek I and firmly ignored by the Treks in be
tween  of bombarding the audience with ponder
ous cosmic philosophy while sparing it the ordeal of 
a comprehensible plot.
The storyline, if one may call it that, starts when 
a renegade Vulcan rounds up a cult following and 
takes over a desolate town wherein important galac
tic ambassadors are having tea.
When Captain Kirk and friends swing by to in
vestigate, said Vulcan hijacks the Enterprise and 
Performs the obligatory brainwash spiel on the crew. 
He then sets sail at warp nine for a forbidden section 
f the galaxy to negotiate with an ambiguous cosmic 
entity.
Directed by Shatner himself, Star Trek Vis heavy 
on nostalgia and character development, but light 
n action. Theres a lot of warm banter between our 
avorites in the crew, but this garnish fails to hide 
the underlying lack of substance. Save your dollar. 
At 6, 8,10,12
By STEPHEN GLICKER, ED LEE, & MIKE 
SHAPIRO
TV BREAK ___JKr*r o 5
A summary of upcoming epi
sodes of Carnegie Mellons favor
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs
ANYTHING BUT LOVE. 
Wednesday at 9:30 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Its Hannah and Martys 
first fight after some mean edit
ing makes Hannah feel inferior.
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Sam isnt too 
fond of Woodys chili, but Rebecca 
wants to sell it in the poolroom.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Moms working in the 
hospital, the house is a mess, 
Dads fuming, andDoogiescaught 
in the middle.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Not being 
shown due to the NCAA Basket
ball Tournament.
FRESH PRINCE OF BELAIR. Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). Carlton becomes a small
time con man in a rough neigh
borhood in order to win a bet.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Its the big 
one: Mullaney and Kuzak defend 
wealthy Rikki Davis on murder 
charges, and McKenzie is feeling 
lonely until he receives a surprise 
proposal.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Not 
being shown due to the Peoples 
Choice Awards.
QUANTUM LEAP. Wednes
day at 10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Sam finds himself in TV land as a 
happy-go-lucky sidekick to fifties 
hero Captain Galaxy.
SEINFELD. Thursday at 9:30
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Back soon 
in a new time slot.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Itchy and 
Scratchy are killing each other, 
over and over again  much to 
Marges ire. (Repeat) 
THIRTYSO ME THING. 
Tuesday at 10 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). On hiatus until April.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Love, shop class, and no 
locker  these are the problems 
of adolescence. (Repeat)
Special Programs 
BABY TALK. Friday at 9:30 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). The series 
that almost died before it was 
bom finally premieres. A baby 
with Tony Danzas voice makes 
witty remarks about adult goingson. Sound familiar? Starring Julian ' 
Duffy, George Clooney, and-the' 
voice of Roscoe Lee Brown Hay.
EDDIE DODD. Tuesday at 10 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). Treat Wil-- 
Hams stars in this new drama as *  
a defense attorney with a heart. *" 
In the premiere, he defends an exlover charged with a mercy killing.  ' 
OUR NEIGHBOR FRED 
ROGERS. Thursday at 8 pm,1 
channel 13 (WQED). A light look 1 
into the life of this renowned 
childrens entertainer.
PAUL SIMON. Monday at 8 '  
pm, channel 13 (WQED). The' 
Graceland concert, with appear- 1 
ances by Miriam Makeba, Hugh - ' 
Masekela, and Ladysmith Black' 
Mombazo.
Compiled by*  
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
This summer, Save 25 percent on three courses,
take a quarter off. 20 Percent on t*0-
uoMM a0Iee0'S^8 S1 $sm 'MMsmVspl RoMM 4eIBJYa0JaaJj VC UosM 3-sp RVTkVmP 
""..............................................:................. ' ~ " I
I
SoUO
8R-VVM tCOpp
us3f
8Mo3O |sk
dVUO tCOpp
i VT -
83o3O |sk
~ri'V.
Northwestern University . 
Summer Session 91 
Think or swim.
'EU 3-smNsmAP 8Om UO o 5COO RVkf V5 3-O 8TUUOC 
8OppsVm Ya Ro3oMVA ,s3- 5smomRsoM os om COAsp3Co3sVm 
sm5VCUo3sVm $oLosMogMO sm tkCsMjP
GMOopO pOm 3-O Ro3oMVA 3V ? Uf -VUOP
? Uf pR-VVMP
SVC3-,Op3OCm 1msLOCps3f 8TUUOC 8OppsVm Ya 
6eeq 8-OCsom yVo vLomp3Vml 'MMsmVsp _e6eI06_Fe
Feel better about finding a physician.
When you call the Physician Referral Network, 
you get more than just the name and number of a doctor. 
You get the facts you need to make an informed decision.
Ask about a doctor's background, education, 
office hours, location, method of payment and more. 
We'll be glad to answer your questions. And if you'd like, 
we'll even help you set up your appointment.
Afterwards, we'll extend a follow-up call to find out if the 
Physician Referral Network has met your expectations.
For more information, call us at
zqqAqqqq
The Physician Referral Network is a 
Community Service of Shadyside Hospital.

---------------------------------------------------

A Poetry and Fiction Workshop is
held every Wednesday at 8 pm in the 
Cathedral of Learning, room 204. 
Bring in finished works or write at the 
site.
Admission for all DH 2210 films is $1 
for students with ID, $2 otherwise. 
Admission to all Pittsburgh Playhouse 
films is $3, unless otherwise stated.
The Explorers Club weekly meet
ings will be held every Thursday at 
6:30 pm in Porter Hall 225C. For more 
information call Lee Janson at x3457.
Music
Notices
Theater
WPXI-TV/Channel 11 Volunteer 
Connection matches volunteers with 
families. If you have a service to 
donate to local families with Operation 
Desert Storm members, call the 
Channel 11 Volunteer Connection at 
394-5380. Sponsored by the United 
Way Volunteer Action Center, Bell of 
Pennsylvania, and WPXI-TV.
Religion
Greeks
Greek Sing will take place Friday at 
7 pm at the Pittsburgh Soldiers and 
Sailors Memorial. Tickets cost $6.50 
at the Skibo Information Desk and 
$7.50 at the door.
Lectures
"aYYe bCs083oC GsR3TCOp
Matthew Broderick and Frank Whaley star in the 1990 version of The Freshman, which 
will play in DH 2210 Friday evening.
The Lesbian and Bisexual 
Womens Group will meet at the 
CMU Womens Center Mondays at 7 
pm.
Alvin P. Brannick, CMU senior vice 
president for legal affairs, will have an 
open office hour each Tuesday from 2 
3 pm in Warner Hall 605 for students 
with legal problems. Call x3708 to 
make an appointment.
Cindy Goodman-Leib, assistant 
director of Bnai Brith Hillel, will be in 
Kiltie Court at noon Tuesday.
Rachel Stock, program assistant for 
Bnai Brith Hillel, will have office 
hours Tuesday from 4-6 pm at Hillel.
A Hillel community meeting is open 
to anyone interested in Hillel Tuesday 
at 7 pm in the Hillel Lounge. Call 
Bnai Brith Hillel at 621-8875 for more 
information.
Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance 
Club will have meetings Wednesdays 
from 7-11 pm in the Mellon Institute 
Conference Room. Singles and couples 
at all experience levels are welcome. 
For more information contact Aki 
Ohshima at x7116.
A PageMaker workshop will be held 
Wednesday in Baker Hall 140 from 5- 
6:30 pm. For more information or to 
sign up, call x5720.
A Biomedical Engineering Gradu
ate Symposium will take place in the 
Wherrett Room from 1-5:15 pm 
Thursday. The keynote speaker is Dr. 
Stephen Kessler of Sepracor, Inc. For 
further information, call Andrew 
Lipton at x3855.
The Carnegie Mellon Riding Club
meets every Thursday at 6 pm in 
Porter Hall 226C. Come talk to fellow 
motorcycle enthusiasts about racing, 
mechanics, and rides!
Spend dinner with Chabad and 
Bnai Brith Hillel Thursday at 7 pm 
in Skibo 201.
cmuOUT holds business meetings in 
Baker Hall 254C Fridays at 7:30 pm. 
Impromptu social activities often 
follow.
Carnegie Mellon Students for 
Peace meets every Sunday at 7 pm in 
Baker Hall 225C. All new members 
and views are welcome  please join 
us. For more information call x5501.
A dinner benefiting the Fund for 
Humanity will be held Sunday from 
47 pm at the Birmingham Loft. For 
more information call Jill at 648-2685 
or the Students for Peace hotline at 
661-4284.
Volunteers are needed at
Lawrenceville-Bloomfield Meals on 
Wheels, located at St. Augustines 
church on 37th Street and Butler. 
Meals are prepared every day of the 
year for people on special diets who are 
not able to cook for themselves. Help is 
needed in the kitchen and on the 
road at various times of the day. For 
more information or to sign up, contact 
Tony or Josie at 687-0830.
Seminars for the City of Pitts
burgh Marathon have begun. The 
schedule continues with 'Management 
of Running Injuries at 6:30 pm Friday 
at the Sports Medicine Institute. For 
more information call 647-RUNN.
Foreign language tables will be held 
in conjunction with the Modern Lan
guages Department. All tables take 
place in the Morewood cafeteria unless 
otherwise stated. Tuesdays: II Circolo 
Italiano (Italian), 5-6 pm. Wednes
days: La Table Franaise (French) 
beginning at 11:30 am and Bentoo
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: The 
Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. 
You can also drop submissions via AppleShare in 
the drop folders in the Tartans server, Skibo zone. 
Please limit submissions to fifty words or less. 
Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday before the next 
issue. Placement is not guaranteed. Original Vox 
Populi and Calendar entries cannot be returned.
Cyrano de Bergerac will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse tonight through 
March 31 at 7:30 pm. A second show
ing will be at 10 pm Fridays and 
Saturdays. Admission is $4.
The Freshman (1925) will play in DH 
2210 Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
The Freshman (1990) will play in DH 
2210 Friday at 6, 8,10 and midnight.
Henry and June will play in DH 2210 
Saturday at 7, 9:30 and midnight.
Star Trek V: The Final Frontier 
will play in DH 2210 Sunday at 6, 8, 
10 and midnight.
Spend Shabbat dinner at Hillel,
Friday. Happy half-hour starts at 5:30 
pm, services at 6 and dinner at 6:45. 
For reservations or more information 
call 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory
invites Catholics to pray the Stations 
of the Cross together at noon of the 
Fridays of Lent in Skibo 39. It will be 
followed by the usual weekday mass at 
12:30 pm. Call 681-3181 for more 
information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory
celebrates mass daily at 12:30 pm in
The CMU Celtic History Society
presents Law and the Rights of 
Women in Celtic Society Wednesday 
at 5 pm in Doherty Hall 3300.
Professor Russell Moses will speak 
on The Impact of the Gulf War on USSoviet Relations and the Middle East 
at 4:30 pm Thursday in Margaret 
Morrison 103.
Manis Friedman, author of Doesnt 
Anyone Blush Anymore? will speak on 
Intimacy, Privacy and Relationships
The Carnegie Mellon Wind En
semble will perform Friday in Alumni 
Concert Hall at 8 pm. Admission is 
free.
Pittsburgh Musicians for Peace 
will present a concert at Graffiti on 
Sunday. A donation will be collected. 
For more information call Graffiti at 
682-4210 or the Thomas Merton 
Center at 361-3022.
Poe: A Theatrical Vision will be 
presented by the Nathan Group at the 
Birmingham Lofts Friday and Satur-! 
day and March 22, 23, and 29. Curtain 
is 8 pm with an additional showing 
Saturdays at 11pm. Tickets are $5. 
For more information call 731-7375. :
Reality Optional, at the Artery, will 
have shows March 23, April 6 and 20, 
and May 4 and 18. Curtain time is 
7:30 pm.
The mens swim team will compete at 
the NCAA Championships at Emory 
University Thursday through Saturday.
The mens outdoor track team will 
compete at the Clarion University of 
Pennsylvania Invitational on Saturday.
Lunch o nihongo de (Japanese) at noon 
in Baker Hall 228A. Please order lunch 
for the Japanese table on Tuesday in 
Baker Hall 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) 
beginning at 11:30 am. Fridays: La 
Mesa Espaola (Spanish) and 
Russkaya Beseda (Russian) beginning 
at 11:30 am.
Soundings is a new biweekly radio 
series featuring interviews, ideas, 
events, and personalities of the cam
pus and urban communities. The 
programs will air every other Sunday 
at 8 pm on WRCT, 88.3 FM. For more 
information contact Kevin Goldsmith, 
general manager, WRCT, at 621- 
WRCT or by email: 
WRCT@andrew.cmu. edu
Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. 
Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 
pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration auditorium. For more 
information call the Roman Catholic 
Oratory at 681-3181.
Prayer at the Close of the Day will 
be sung Sunday at 9:30 pm in Heinz 
Chapel by the Pittsburgh Compline 
Choir. For more information call 682- 
6886.
Episcopalians worship at the Church 
of the Ascension Sundays at 8:30 and 
11 am. A class for college students is 
held at 9:45 am. Services are also held 
Wednesdays at 7 am. For more infor
mation call Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Thursday at 8:30 pm in Wean 7500. 
For more information call 683-7770.
Vincent Scotti Eirene will present 
100,000 Dead in Iraq, SEI and Non
violent Confrontation Thursday at 
5:30 pm in Baker Hall 225.
The Hypnosis Research Group
presents Hypnosis, Powers of the 
Mind and Secrets of Behavior Friday 
from 7-9 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. A $3 donation will be collected. 
For more information call 276-1768.
So ... whats the thermal conduc
tivity of your  oops, I mean A
 banana?
The problem with Organic 
Chemistry is that its all memori
zation and no concepts (no matter 
WHAT George says!!!)
Kyra  had any rum cake lately?
Hello? ... I forgot why I called....
Its strange doing it with clothes
Patriot, what a creative name! 
What happened to Donkey Kong?
Were Hungry
Aron is a weenie ... oh, look, the 
Alps!
No  I dont know who you are. 
(Im Shy) Please contact me ASAP.
Look, guys.
Stop making fan of me. Just stop 
it. Okay? Its not funny any more 
and I am less than pleased. Cut it 
out.
KCD
Bob has nothing to say.
Neidermeyer J. Suckbag the Illrd 
is Fertile!!!
But the Jarhead Buzzard shoots 
BLANKS!!!
Hey Pooki, who are you?
 Curious G.N.
Get me real drunk sometime, 
Dan, and then do it.
K
To the second most wonderful guy 
in the world:
I love you ... forever.
Let us have a moment of silence 
because wmlg is dead.
Let us have a moment of celebra
tion because... WILLIAM 
LIVES!!!!!!!
To the Students for Peace who have 
done so much these last few weeks: 
Thank you!
To those who will join us in the 
upcoming ones: Welcome!
Typical Crime and Incident Report 
Entry:
Y. MISCONDUCT: A student was 
spotted pissing on a dumpster 
behind one of the fraternities. A 
 SB Campus Police officer asked him 
what he was doing, at which point 
the student shot the questioning 
officer. The student was then seen 
Y. running down Forbes Avenue. 
When apprehended, the student 
said that he had been drinking 
excessively. The student was 
- H issued an interna] citation and
ordered not to fire a gun within city 
limits again.
To all those 
BLOW ME!
revenge,
 The Gupster
Hey eatmebeatmechick,
Ive been watching you. Relax and 
dont be so mad at the world.
the mystery guy
There is nothing like a group of 
friends sitting in a circle under the 
black lights smoking.
The BAD Influence
Only VARSITY Losers talk to their 
boyfriends over Broadcast!
Love comes in spurts.
 EWRCDMTAB
Zachs room is a sexual gymnasium. 
Just ask Johnny.
Tyranesaurs,
This class is soooooooo boring.
I wish hed shut up and let us sleep.
Microdot
Well, the winter seasons almost 
over. When do we spring forward?
Sometimes I think I feel like God.
I have all tliis love I want to give to 
people and it never comes back to 
me.
True, but God has to put up with it 
from the entire world. You only 
have to deal with it for a few
mAd ScienTisT,
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
and I hope you feel better.
The Little Red-Haired Girl
Chuck D is a God!!!
Yeah, but Gods infinite. He can 
handle it. I cant.
Punishment is NECESSARY ' 
Punishment is ABSOLUTE 
Punishment is GOOD
.1 never thought my life could be 
anything but catastrophe,
But suddenly I begin to see thats 
the way its got to be.
A catastrophe it has always been, 
And a catastrophe it will always be!
ta,
I have your shots, and I will drink 
them.
Guess Who
Amy 
It was my hearts desire to dance 
with you and to hold your hand at 
the Presidents Gala (its what I 
prayed to Captain Stubing for).
A couple of beers and shell be 
looking good; theyll all be looking 
good.
 EWRCDMTAB
KCD:
I longed for your touch since 
freshman year.
You make my juices swell,
My heart ache, and my skin chill. 
One day I will take your hot sexy 
body, and show you what a real 
man is like.
But until then, youll be in my 
.dreams.
 The X Man 
P.S. Im even more serious than the 
others!!!
The Garden of Eden was destroyed 
when Adam ate the forbidden firuit. 
Whose fruit did he eat last weekAfter Lavi, I think we all can see 
why double Es are so screwed up 
and have no social life.
SETHUS (beaker),
Happy (belated) birthday from your 
OTHER roommate.
Reggie
P.S. Hows Leon?
So you children of the world listen 
to what 
I say
If you want a better place to live in 
spread the words today 
Show the world that love is still 
alive
you must be brave 
Or you children of today are 
CHILDREN OF 
THE GRAVE.
 Sabbath
Rainer, Germany cant be all that 
great,
they lost I & II...
Anti-Aryans 1,2,3
Deai-Anti-Aryans,
Pretty funny... Hardeeharhar 
Did you ever suck on a 
knockwurst????
The Rainman
Dear Anne Hogue,
Thanks for the smoking last 
Thursday. Youre the Greatest!
Love, THe Lelt
I liked being called Little 
Sliitbird but I draw the line at 
numb nuts and fairy,
( yTp3f
Sultan,
Id like to go to the cabin for 
spring break, but I dont wanna 
listen to you fuck her for five 
straight days. Id rather sit at 
home and masturbate as I think 
of you....
Hey Rysedorph:
Rubbing your cover on the deck 
to make it clean is the STUPID
EST FUCKING IDEA EVER 
CONCEIVED. Youve been on 
cruise. You should know better.
i love you shannon, youre dead ... d e d ... dead
stiff stiv sright... DEAD.
